  
  
   
    
  
 
   
  
 

Se a

 
  

dead : from the rene op
sea ae: hha Dalhousie) comes | —
tle sunshine salesman to| VOL. LXXIII .
- ma “you forget that there’s a war
ai yn, that exams are coming sooner or
- ater, and that your favorite prof Is].
; a | a ica a, mesh pony

*

 

~
 

Le are supposed to be ‘hp.
x the nae effort this year... . at
and. Mt. Allison, so we are}

lf

“HUTCH Counsels Open Moot Court

BY THE SEA”

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 18, 1940

© Glee Club Opener This Month :

‘Gazette

 

 

No. 3°

 

 

|

CAST BEGINS WORK ON |

  
  
 
   
   
   
 
   

   
   
  
 

nie
if

 

bar.

| tol ae are to study auto me
+ + .", that auto be good
) pe on " a _smell. ne dead

cas they 1 feel the girls could do
useful, anyway .

HAVE to work at the war, and the
al Is get off .... the Indians had
the right lade « .... let the squaws
the trenches: ate ae

oi ep lode

*.%
a

ce ++ sand Nonsense Diese

fe

nd speaking of coeds, one of their
number has achieved distinction . . .
a the first time in its history, the
McGill Daily has a female managing
editor ... the managing editor, you
_ know, sees to the supplying of copy
paper... it will probably come in
pastel shades this year... and the
typewriters | will all have green and
red ribbons . .. don’t let her put the
Daily out on baby blue newsprint,
kerala e a fn

ae * / * * , a

 

ety ec sue vaca

nee Sports item of the week. coming
br y soon after the winding
has, championships at|

 

 

 

 

: Ma

Seth 3

_ room is now too stui

: ) your
% + et that’s ehh play tiddeley-winks.

SS q
we ,
a A

BP dah

2 aM

U U,, is the fe inert Law)

last two poker ee ?

ee
“Hickory Dock...

Yes, just before hickory dock in

- that immortal poem come the words
Tic Toc . . . which incidentally is
_ the name of one of Montreal’s super
night clubs . . . it has probably
doubled its business since McGill
opened its doors again ... and right. ly, too. They have a good comedian
there . baat

He can ad lib almost as Past as a
coed: trying to break a date.

LA aa ay
-Typieal College Awakening .

he! 45: You open one eye, throw a

bj hae: at the alarm clock which has
Beye just gone off, turn over, resolve to

a het and go back to

te second alarm clock,
PS set for this time, goes off.
: ‘ow the other shoe at it.

: Your room-mate, who has
awakened by your alarm clock,
you it is time to get up.
pours, a glass of water over

=

% A e 8. “Abs Your Wesohats put the

window down when he got up, so the
to sleep in.
u get up, miss breakfast, and are

gg acme nate for your nine

ee ook

ae

a * a . the}
rs ‘rea ason bey re sore is Becsune hex

    
   
  
  
 
      
     
   
    
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
       
    
  
  
  
   
   
    
 
     
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   

 

CLAYTON HUTCHINS
D.A.A.C. Prexy

who has posted an agenda for a| knowledge

meeting Saturday noon which indicates that this year’s executive is out
to clear up a few bones of contention
that have been bothering for years.

The first item, to wit: “The Minor
Sports of the Club shall be Inter
mediate Football, Intermediate Bas
ketball, Badminton, Swimming, and
| such other sports as the management

is C.) ~ommittee may from time to time |
de: will offer plentiful | scope | had drifted into unconsciousness as a clamation on the 1st floor, while Stan |
result of the Gas attack laid down MacQueen and Andy Dunn are com
r argument.
the remaining item eoncerns the

\award of a minor felt “D” to stu
dents who compete in at least three
meets and attend practice regularly.
- The meeting promises to be a
heated one for there are upholders
of pro and con among the student
ranks. |

Edacational Feature
On Radio Network

The CBC is planning a new programme on “Democracy and Citizenship”. It is another of those question
and answer broadeasts. The ques
citizens across Canada. As the ad
vertising matter states: “Their questions, their hopes and doubts about
democracy, will be collected, as they

(Continued on page 4)

WHAT’S GOING ON

 

 

With Brilliant Sophistry FROSH MUSICAL COMEDY

Frankish and Forbes Win Case
Wednesday, 16th at 2 p.m. High,

Sheriff Cameron McNeil officially
declared Dalhousie’s Supreme Moot
Court officially opened for the year
1940.

The first case of the year was that
notorious Libel case, “Youssoupoff vs |
Metro Goldwyn Mayer Pictures
Limited.”
alleged relations between “Rasputin
the Mad Monk” and a_ Russian
Princess,

Princess Youssoupoff sued _ the
Picture Company claiming that the

General Public would think that she |

was the woman involved.

The arguments put forward by
both Counsellors were brilliant and
A. H. Hart showed a_ surprising
of the “Doctrine of
Sensual Satisfaction” while R. W.
Frankish K.C. won the case on the
question, “Did she fall or was she
pushed ?”

The highlights of the trial, aside| held by the various floors is keen.|in this contest.

This case deals with the |

Council Elections

A Pine Hill il Today

| Pine Hillers go to the polls today
to elect their 1940-41 Student Council. As usual, interest is centred in
the Presidential election, where big,

|persuasive Allan Barrett, a member|
of last year’s Council, is being op-|

| posed by Aubrey Moore and “Turk”
MacKenzie in a three-cornered battle.
son are candidates for the Vice-|

Ed. Harrigan and Pete Nichol-| Theatre with President Inez Smith’

“Cinderella’” Will Show October 29th

This week plans for the first Glee Club show were com| pleted, and rehearsals begun for a grand Frosh Show, which
| wall feature farce, frolic and quality talent. Thrown in at no
extra cost will be a chorus to show off this year’s more than
usually shapely freshettes.

ieee eet aie aos ae

 

On Tuesday, October 29th, the
Artsmen Greeted by Smith | Fresh will present “Cinderella”, a

) musical comedy, which was last put
Munroe Vice-President lon ‘by the. freshman class’ im 4ORE.

|A Students’ Council ticket will be

Formal Dance Mooted your admission, and immediately afI the play the Glee Club will have

On Tuesday the Arts and Science s first dan
Society assembled in t} h a G
S 1 the Chemistry | ” Many Frosh Will Take Part.

onthe ‘Stool  Acheurty welcome: was The leads have been taken by

 

 

Presidency, while Burton Crowe,
Danny Matheson, and Stan MacQueen are all in the running gl
another Council seat. “Skippy” Em| bree is being opposed as Secretary
by Doug MacKean.

Competition for the Council seats

 

from the legal proceedings was the| Don Robb and Ed Brown are runbodily ejection of Lieu. A. Peake by| ning on the top floor of the Old
the Sheriff. (Lieu. Peake was caught| Building, Lawrence Read and Doug |

practising the projection of pellets.) | Cantelope on the 2nd.

In the An
Next came the waking of Amiro, who| nex, Frank Lacey is elected by ac
by the bench.
The bench, C. J. Corcoran, L. J.

peting on the 2nd, and Cliff Stewart
is being oposed by Fred Forbes on

Huchins and L. J. Macadam deliver-| the 3rd. Interest is higher than for
ed separate judgments which sparkl-| several years.

ed with legal knowledge and keen
thinking. The Judges found in favor

of the Respondents, Counsel R. W. U. B. oe Plans To

Frankish, with Macadam dissenting.
Junior Counsel Forbes for Respon
| dent, G. R. Kileel for the Appellants.

Next case Friday, October 18th.

C.N.R. vs. Green, an appeal from versity of British Columbia and all

of Canada. | Canadian universities after the war
Counsel for the Appellants, Pete is won, was forecast in the tradition
the . Supreme Court

Nicholson, K.C. W. P. Kapak, LI.B.

while apearing for the respondents ner, President of the Literary and
tions are to be posed by ordinary| are A. W. Gaudet, K.C. ond J. I.) scientific Executive. !

Lemoine, LI.B.
Wednesday, October seed. 2 p.m.
Dixon vs. Reuter’s Telegraph Com
>

Hanway, E. Disher and A. Poirier.

A Canadian Youth Hostel Dance in aid of the Red Cross fund will be

held this evening at the Y.M.C.A. Moriarty Hall.

and admission is $1. per couple.

Dancing is from 9 to 1

'who gathered around the Cairn, Bon\ner advised them that as alumni
pany, before their Lordships L. J. K. they would be called upon to sup
|

Expand After War

Vancouver—Expansion of the Uni
 

 

al Cairn Ceremony by Robert Bon
Speaking to the undergraduates

port a student campaign for more
buildings and expansion that would
rival the historic campaign of the
year 1922.

It was then that students, tired
of the cramped quarters in the traditional Fairview shacks, petitioned

 

An enthusiastic S.C.M. general meeting was held last evening in Saint | the Provincial Government to: com
Andrew’s Hall.

Dr. Benge Atlee was the special speaker.

The first meeting of the Newman Club, in the form of a Communion
breakfast, will be held at the pane of Columbus Hall at 10.15 a.m.

Sunday, October 20.

From out of the West comes a rumour that the Arts and Science
Society will meet next week and the chief business will probably be the

oft-discussed manner of collecting membership fees.

The Shirreff Hall Self-Governing Association met last week at which

Miss MacKeen explained house rules of the ancient edifice, and a com
plete the construction of the University of British Columbia at Point
Grey which had been commenced in
1915 and stopped because of the
firsti World War.

As part of a detailed plan the students marched and hiked from Fairview to the Point. Grey campus,
some six miles distant, singing college songs, in an effort to arouse

them, another 5% saying, “Yes, but not every Saturday”.
other 26% were against the idea altogether, while 20% just
didn’t have any opinion.

> / > 7
given the members and Inez pro- | oat ae mabe who
ceeded to direct the election of| 22¥S te Ulle role, and George Saun
: Jers as the Prince.
officers from her position behind the is
P ; | The frosh will have a chance to

counter. Ih 4 baiadce. apie eae
“fess ; | hear some rea y
The nominations for vice-president Mee OT eee

were Don Black and Bain Munroce.| /i™dsay and Kay Knowles each ofSieve Munroe was very successful fer solos. They will be further enBill Hagen was tertained by a saxophone, guitar and
chosen as D.A.A.C. representative| “ddle selection by Ken Lough, Don

and Peter McCulloch as Hockey | Warmer — Doug Johnson.
Manager. | Carson Logan, James Stevens and

3 |Jim Farquhar will have to let down
Comics on Page| 4) —|their hair and stooge for Prince
Saunders. Logan and Stevens are
sure to be a riot dressed as Cinderella’s ugly sisters.

Among those taking other important parts will be Joan Archibald,
Jamie MacLeod and Morton Uoryman. Graham Allen, an editor on
_one of our leading daily newspapers,
will direct.

Dorothy Graham, well known on
the campus as dancer extraordinary,
will pick a chorus of the most attractive freshettes on the campus.
This alone should be an incentive
for many to attend.

It will be worthwhile for all to
see the first freshman endeavor.
Rehearsals are under way and Ruth
MacQuarrie, President of the Glee
Club, is very enthusiastic. Remem| ber, Tuesday, evening, October 29th,

have been liké before the war!! || the Freshman Show and Dance spon: sored by the Glee Club. J. P. W.

et Pas CD

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

The McMaster Silhouette runs
an interesting item on the freshmen initiation there in its October
first issue, in which it emphasizes
a new idea—that initiation acti.
vities there were cut down on
account of the war.

Accordingly, this year the fre-’
only had to wear green belts, «
ties, and identification disks fr
ONE MONTH; all they had to do

 

.

besides that was carry matches,
hold doors, give up seats, run errands, and “retain an attitude of

distant admiration”
classmen.
Sometimes it is doubtful whether Dal frosh realize how lucky
they are.
Think what McMaster must

for upper
 

 

 

   

 

 

Should Lower Gym Dances Be Revived?

Opinion seemed to be decidedly in favour of having the
Wurlitzer affairs this year. Of those quizzed, 49% favored
An
Who Will Win the City League Football Title?
We blush to say that only 49%, or less than half, picked

—————————— eee

  
   
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
        
 
  

Pelt. es
ii ears
; des she ie 7

  
    
   
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  

support from the public.

When they arrived at Point Grey
they constructed the Cairn with
available rocks and placed in it the
signatures of 51,000 citizens of Vancouver and British Columbia who
supported their demands for a newer and better University. They won
their case, but. not before Ab Richards, President of the Alma Mater
Society, had to appear before the
Provincial Legislature with his arguments for immediate construction.
Subsequently the university was
erected and finally opened in 1925.

This trek and campaign has developed into a tradition which is relived in spirit each year at the
Cairn Ceremony.

ake wits paper, as usual, car-| mittee of three was elected to make arrangements for the Shirreff Hall
th > news: that you. frosh aren’t | Formal Dance to be held November 7th.

) to the freshman rules.|—
ne now, kids! Play up! It makes
sophs so very very happy if you
L yes. « . and if you freshettes |

y pn gee ‘The Pi Beta Phi girls’ fraternity held a very successful formal at the

s 7 : . deal ie Waegwoltic on Thursday evening. It was a swell time for everyone,
; including the “rushees” and the male guests who appreciate such an
us to the question invitation. —
ie ct on de meeting of the City Football League in the gymnasium Monday
Pe oa
_D. ee: prc Mae on Rey a i the gymnasium. Time:

> The Community Chest is conducting a campaign throughout Canada
during the week of October 15—22. Students should spare no efforts to
Support this worthy cause to the limit. Donate the price of a package of
cigarettes today!

  

Dal to win the League championship. But other teams fared
much worse, 8% picking Acadia, 5% Wanderers, and 3% the
Navy. 30% simply wouldn’t pick anybody, and 5% dared to
say that they wern’t interested in football. They were mostly
males, too!

What Do You Think of Roy’s Coffee?

On the basis of the opinions of those who drink it, Roy’s
coffee is not much worse than fair. 17% said they liked it,
21% that they didn’t, in such terms as “punk,” “putrid,” “it
stinks”, and some others which we aren’t printing because they
were uncomplimentary. The most astonishing revelation is of
the number of people who “don’t touch the stuff”. 8% don’t

 

drink coffee at all, 17% said they don’t drink Roy’s coffee but
admitted that they had tried it, while 37%, for some reason or

other, have just never tried it. It looks like the insidious work a
™~
'

of Rufus Rayne.

 
  
    
 

      
 
     
    
      

   

 

i. = : A {haart
>. and ; v j '

: Le

 

- almost universal approval on the campus—those grousing males

Tae

 

 

“of — HE GAZETTE are those of
that they represent the opinion of

 

aoe Frnting Co., Limited, 54 Argyle St, Halifax

ST

(GAZETTE STAFF

B-1516
B 9745
B 1049
B 1917
B 3447

y ees JACQU re
1a. : ROSS GRAHAM

ee B 4538

eh te B 9586

| Sd. at B 4421

5 Bator: ao a BLACK beaten B-2717
3 Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD Tes) Fs B 9746
AHAN ee as B 3148

aa ee ee ee ee ee
Peet ee Sak ig ee
gee ar Ea a ee
cus 4 gOS Stee oe
git 3s Se eee oe

ORRIS ie
REPORTORIAL STAFF

_ John. Misick, Jean Weinstein, Bill Ferguson, Albert Wilansky
Jean Phinney, Mary McKiegan

A PLUG FOR PLACIDITY
The decision by which Dalhousie has been spared a program
of regimental training for women seems to have met with

EDMUND

who complain that “women these days get all the breaks’

_ excepted.

According to his interviewer, President Stanley pointed
out that much was done last year and more can be done this
year by Dalhousie women through Delta Gamma and city
agencies. There are other good reasons why no mass program

‘such as some colleges have adopted for their women should be

undertaken here just now. The job of getting the males’ train
- ing under way throughout Canada is making serious demands

on personnel and materials. Moreover, with men and women
still. unemployed in Canada it hardly seems necessary as
yet to go to the colleges for female auto mechanics and to
burden them with the necessity of finding equipment and instructors for an elaborate training project. First aid and
rudimental nursing can be taught to small groups without fuss
or display or interference with other necessary activities. Our
first job at university is still to get an education in the arts and
sciences.

Often, in troubled times, serenity is a valued asset. We
believe that the calm attitude displayed here is more befitting

to an institute of learning than the reckless busyness of those

university males who elsewhere have decided that their women
students wish to be dragooned.

A DANGEROUS FALLACY

Our most dangerous enemy today seems to be a weakening
of faith among our-people in the efficacy of democracy. Part
of thisi is due to the failure to understand what democracy
really is. Mistakenly, we identify it with universal franchise
in our own country or with the “pluto-oligarchy that has continued through constitutional forms” in Europe. We forget
hat, in its essence, democracy isa belief in the common man,

   

a system that treats men as equal units of social value.

It has been said that unless democracy functions throughout our lives it does not function at all, and in this sense it is
true that the ills of our society are due, not to the weakness of
democracy, but to the lack of it. In the arts, in industr y, in
education, no one can say that democracy has functioned.

Rather, behind a facade of democracy, special privilege has

maintained its hold by playing on the strings of tradition and
erence and by utilizing an advantage in authority and
uence.

Irwin Edman, professor of philosophy at Columbia, attri
- butes this uncertainty in the adequacy of democracy to three

things: lack of faith in the common man, lack of belief that
people could be deeply or effectively concerned with the common good, and third, a sense that society could not be effectively
planned without suppressing the liberty of individual living. He
goes on to say that there is nothing in the crescendo of evil that
has Swept over the western world that ought to make us lose
faith in the common man, nothing to make us believe that those
elements of decency and kindness, of living and letting live,
which people exhibit if they are allowed to live without fear and
security, might not animate the decisions of mankind. He adds
that “the vaunted liberties of a democratic society have too
often been liberties of the already entrenched and privileged, the
economic and moral slavery of the many. To organize the means
of living for all is not to preclude the possibility of living well,
or variously, or individually, by each ....

| Indeed, it is notable that the fortitude and humor most
‘praised in the terror-ridden England of today is that typical to
the lowly cockney. The record of the late republican government in Spain, tricked and betrayed by its democratic neighbors,
shows that bravery, decency and respect for order were by and
large the qualities displayed by the humble and illiterate popu
a . fk - Jaee in their trials: The passive resistance tactics of Gandhi’s

 
  
  
  
  
 
       
  
   
   

 

followers in this decade demonstrate an almost unbelievable

self-discipline practised by massed thousands. And in China.

Heri practically the whole populace has rallied with a unity and
eroism no one could have imagined possible a few years ago.
the common man has proved his competence and worth.

. jhe It would be unj justified and tragic indeed to allow democracv

» stand condemned in our minds because of the record of our

‘ (polities, spoken of as the gentle art of getting votes from the
io eT and campaign funds from the rich by promising to protect

from the other. Democracy is more than a system of
ig or a framework of laws. Its possibilities have not been
sted, for its sear principles have never been properly

  

rm ‘implementa.

| the apinions put forward in this column, differed with them and

 

PLEASE READ THIS |
It is astonishing that there is no one to date who has read

ut, energy to write and say so, and why so.
we shall continue to look eagerly through

+m he 1 aise leach 42 in oo finding some comment

tion on how to iprove YOUR GAZETTE.
in the printing of letters, but only

hi name for our personal information.

 

eye ae

: 4 a ‘
. J bm so -_ yn ® At Aim *\ . V Pak
om ¥ ‘ ; f Mg rs ey ra . 7 ts ral iy 8 ~My
et 9 ah 4 uv. oY Ned :
’ ; BYE es aie eat Ae & ay es Pla
i aS F = 7 ae j
fi ; ay Ae ata 5 al | a Y's au i te ;
a wf re Lan v2 Bot ot et BA hee ite B T t :
Q 7
4 ] 2 ie ed, i “TE Lat oa: ‘pe i ‘ :
' ng e > . y a's aii vei a A ¢< i var
ha a ca? + Dey od ete fee SU RERA 9 Oi ore Ah :
Bil is : FERS ee a Ft , a ARAN fi ba Satay De oa al)
7 d Rs ’ ~ er
Nn a Mik a sl Hi e eals a ey sfyay om Varn f “uy ' '
- he Bey hoe Bef fPowe y . it da
IE Rn es or de Whael ahs.

. MPP doe as Ul Paes,
at Fo Ay ns rae eile Boab ty Vy

   

 

 
         
     
   
      

  

aI No pec ence lp a ee lhe na RS
Tia ee oF te em atk At Ae ki ce" j
ae Noe ae Peale av yam

EA ergs Ot
ff er
i%

 
 

Cee
@ ‘e

“ts ° +

Ue ar Ui

     
 

= me

 

Wer aay ;

You have now had two opportunities to see what sort

of material the Literary Editor needs for this column.

Surely there are other people on the campus who can write
short stories that will be as good as the one published this

week! If there is any interest the Gazette might run off a

short story contest later.

Anyhow, all contributions will

be gratefully received. Just leave them at the Gazette

Office. Please note too that

this column is still nameless.

 

“BLUEBERRY PIE”

* * *

Short Short Story

How old Stewart ever came to
marry the sort of woman he did no
one ever discovered. He was a
middle aged hard-rock miner, toughened and hard-living; and she was a
young member of the minor social
set, with romantic ideas about life
and men. His life was drilling and
blasting the rigid stone in an atmosphere damp and reeking with powder
smoke. Hers was dressing and dining and deftly steering her way
through an atmosphere of niceness
and prettiness and triviality. She
had come to the mining camp with
Stewart after the marriage, naively

| excited about a new adventurous life.

But the severe habits and the discomforts of a newly settled community soon turned her enthusiasm
to abomination. The massive, steep
brown mountains, dotted with ugly
Jack Pines, the narrow tortuous
roads, the almost vertical ravines
with roaring streams far below, dismayed and terrorized her. The unfertile lava ash, the thin, rare atmosphere and the mountains, tower
EX LIBRIS"

(By A.M. W.)

 

How Green Was My Valley
Richard Llewellyn

One has but to read very few
pages indeed of How Green Was My

Valley to understand why this book |

is rated as one of the outstanding
books of the year. There is a charming simplicity and directness of
style sustained all the way through
that carries the reader at so swift
and absorbing a pace that he tends
to pass rather hastily over passages
that are almost poetry in their
beauty. It is a book that will haunt
your memory — a story of Wild
Wales through which the untamed)
spirit of the Celt runs like a living
flame. In Richard Llewellyn,
Cymbric bards of another era have
been given a new lease of life, and
once again the story of Wales is
sung by a native son who knows and
loves her well.

nie

H G ' W: s M r , is ° .
See ea eee ee will linger on long after their Celtic

story of the Morgans, a clannish
and spirited family who for genera
ing rocky giants that reflected the) tions have wrested their livelihood

the | 2re Huw’s brothers,

 

scorching sun and hemmed in her) from the collieries beneath their navision in every direction, oppressed | tive hills and who at the end of the
her and made her sullen. While | nineteenth century are beginning to |
Stewart revelled in the sharp tang | feel in earnest the encroachment of |
of the morning air she resented its) [ndustrialism which threatens to

coldness; while he looked every eve-| stamp out their life both spiritually |

ning for the sunset with valleys
deeply shadowed and peaks standing
out all golden, she yearned every
evening for the society and entertainment of the, city. While he
regarded the mountains with a
fascination born of the lure of gold,
she felt them closing in and crushing her soul.
eae

And so she had gone home with
an excuse about failing health, and
Stewart had set about building a
house with modern comforts. Out
of a small income, diminished by her
requirements in the city, he bought

the fittings, paid for the milling of |
the |

trees he felled and hewed,
cement and shingles and furniture.

Slowly constructing the little build-_

ing himself in the few daylight

hours at the end of a long day of |
roaring drills and curses and thun- |

derous blasts, he toiled at his home,
keeping weary hands at their work
with false visions and vain hopes.

On this day the little house was)

near completion, already appearing
cosy and convenient and admired en
thusiastically by the little group of |

neighbors who watched it grow.

Stewart had come up _ from
underground with the first load of
ore after lunch and had presented
himself at the door of the cookhouse early in the afternoon with the
unusual request for a piece of blueberry pie. Silently he had eaten it
while the cook tried vainly to engage him in conversation with questions concerning his wife and comments on his house. When he had
finished he had asked for another
piece, and after the cook, mystified,
had uneasily complied, a_ third.
When the three pieces were gone,
slowly eaten, and the empty plate
contemplated in silence for some
time, Stewart. had risen and thanked
the cook with aj grave tersity. “I
never,” he murmured, “had all the
pie I was hungry fer, before.”

ot oF *

At five o’clock in the afternoon
when the shift had come above
ground Mr. Shepherd, the mine manager, was brought an unusual letter,
addressed in the scrawl with which
Stewart addressed letters to his wife
in the city. Twenty seconds after
receiving it he was at the bunkhouse, asking for a volunteer on an
errand which might prove dangerous. Louis, the French carpenter,
offered his services and they set off
in Shepherd’s Cadillac, up a steep
logging road to the shack where
Stewart slept, picking up the young
doctor, who was out walking, on the
way.

Cases of suicide within Shepherd's

and physically. The central figure
is that of Huw Morgan, youngest of
the Morgan boys, whose lot it is to
grow up and see his family and home

dispersed before the onslaught of |
forces against which the miners are |
The relentless |

helpless to oppose.
onset of these forces is symbolized

by the grim advance of the slag heap |

from the mines, crushing every green
thing before it and threatening at
last to grind to ruins the cottage of
the Morgans itself.

It is a story of wild people who
live according to a code known only
to themselves. There are no introverts or jaded personalities here—
these people are real; passionate,
fiercely loyal, with temperaments
high-strung and never predict@hle.
| There is Beth Morgan, mother of the
clan, who threatens a group of
strikers that she will kill with her
own hands the man who dares to lay
a finger upon any of her family.
There is Mr. Gruffydd, the preacher
at the Zion Chapel, a man with the
material as well as the spiritual wel| fare of his congregation at heart and
who after a valiant struggle leaves
for Patagonia having bowed to forces
too strong for his broad shoulders
ae There is, too, Dai Bando, the

 

 

| experience had made him aware that
|@ man intent on ending his life will
sometimes turn on those who attempt to thwart him, and it was with
caution that he levered open the
cabin door and peered into the gloom.
Hastily he withdrew his head at the
moment his eyes became accustomed
to the half-light, for he saw Stewart,
sitting on top of the cot, his knees
up and his back against the wall,
his head on his chest and a long
barrelled colt revolver clutched in
hands held between his knees, pointed dead at the door. Shepherd
covered the figure on the bed with
his Manlicher rifle while the young
doc edged forward into the room, but
old Stewart did not move. His colt,
held under his chin while he pulled
the trigger, had done its work, and
his hands and head had sagged forward as he died.

The letter, scratched in bad spelling with a pencil, read:

“Dear Mr. Shepherd, thank you
for all yore kindness to me. You
can hey my house as I don’t need
it. My wife has sent an tol me she
will never come up and live with
me no more.”

Shepherd, in telling the story,
often philosophises that life has its
queer sources of satisfaction as well
as its pathos, and that a long denied
sufficiency of blueberry pie may have
helped to pull the trigger.

 

October 18, 1940

$1.00 sends 300
SWEET CAPORAL or 1 era
c
5 IaGINIA
send pectin 1 Ib. —- i

of S
Pine OAL FINE CUT. (with. V ue
nak ae sat aldol

sends 1,000 —
cigarettes to an individual or -tnit.

Address **Sweet Caps,”
P.O. Box 6000, Montreal, P.Q.

“I can’t think where Sherlock Holmes got to.”
7
“Perhaps he went out to get Sweet Caps,

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES A

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” i}

prize-fighter, rough with his fist but
with a heart of gold. It is he who
teaches Huw to box and who administers a thrashing to the renegade
Welsh teacher who trys to make the
boy’s life miserable for him. There
Davy and Owen
and Ianto; his father: a strange mixture of strength and tenderness, who
meets a tragic end at the pit-head,
and countless others. With his native background for a canvas, Mr.
Llewellyn has painted a group of interesting characters whose memory

names have been forgotten.
ee ES

The whole scene is as interesting
as it is unusual. It abounds with
interesting description — the mighty
tumult of sound that comes from the
thousand throats of the Zion choir,
the rugby game at the base of the
mountain, the clandestine visit of
Huw and Ceinwen Phillips to listen
to nightingales and a host of other
passages, many of them trayscending the prose medium in which they

Everybody Likes

 

are expressed and reaching the

heights of poetry.

There is a note of poignant nostalgia running all the way through
the book, something curiously oldfashioned too, as if the author will
never forget the memory of those
happier days and as if he feels somewhat out of place in a world that
that has a different scale of values
from that to which he has been accustomed. Here is a sample:

‘Beautiful were the days that are
gone, and O, for them to be: back.
The mountain was green, and proud
with a good covering of oak and ash,
and washing his feet in a streaming
river, clear as the eyes of God.
winds came down with the scents of
the grass and wild flowers, putting a
sweetness to our noses, and taking
away so that nobody could tell what
beauty had been stolen only that the
winds were old robbers who took
something from each grass and
flower and gave it back again,
gave a little to each of us, and took
it away again.’

The

and

Farmers

ICE CREAM

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE

 

After any Show
or
Before any Meal

Think of
The

Green Lantern

 

WELCOME
TO
DALHOUSIE

C

Canadian Youth Hostel Dance

Friday, October 18th

Vw =

JERRY NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA

At Y.M.C.A., MORIARTY HALL
PROCEEDS FOR THE RED CROSS

Sw’

$1.00 A COUPLE

Refreshments

I

 

 

 
‘thie te

   
 

   
   
   
   
  
     
   
     

 

ee rae
reales

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Be the Best Dressed at the LAW BALL

   

| peas: THE MARITIME FURRIERS
Pian Gobd he @rbder for appearance of dancers 7

For Music Lovers | COUNTY OF DALHOUSIE,

Pr ert Bad wea) IN THE SUPREME COURT OF DALHOUSIE
| Records are now selling

at lower prices than ever.
before.

We invite you to inspect our new and

In an Evening Wrap from ue

    
  
   
 
 
   
  

varied asortment.

Velvet or Fur
Prices $27.50 and $45.00
BETWEEN:

THE DALHOUSIE LAW SOCIETY,

Visit Phinney’s Record
Plaintiff and Judgment Creditor

Department today, and
listen to the music of AND
your favourite artists.

"The iBicsisey Music Co., Ltd.

456 Barrington Street

|
=|
|
| See the new “Bouclé Wrap”
| hh

 

_ THE STUDENTS OF DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY,

 

Defendants of Judgment Debtors

    

 

a

"Get Yours Hai-Do” for ‘the Law Ball at

IN THE MATTER OF THE HEARING OF JERRY NAUGLER

 

IN THE MATTER OF THE LAW BALL

of Halifax, Defendants and Judgment Debtors:

WHEREAS it has been made to appear to me that the
Plaintiff is entitled to receive from you the sum of $3.50 in

 

OXFORD THEATRE BUILDING — QUINPOOL ROAD

|

.

To the Students of Dalhousie University in the County
MARQUIS, Manager — ANNE MacLEAN, Prop. _s!

respect of a certain judgment of this Honourable Court. F O R | | | [ S

Therefore, TAKE NOTICE that you are hereby required
to attend) a hearing before me at the Nova Scotian Hotel on f | .
iy, L C di J T Friday, the 25th day of October, A.D. 1940, at the hour of 9.20 cigs: Ta the aw all
| - argest redit Jewellers o’clock in the evening then to be dealt with as this Honourable
aint Court may see fit.
hai He ln The British Empire Send your formal wear to Cousins today for

429 Barrington Street | | i Dry-cleaning or Pressing. You'll look better 1
, ae een HOTICE fat, in the event of YOu .. feel more assured ...on the night of
| When you decide on Jewellry ee kseuned for Christmas failing to attend at such time and place,.a warrant may be issued ky Diase BATE

for your arrest.

iy ) remember Peoples Credit Jewellers. BS;
Telephone L. 2323

me i Oa 8 EASIER TO PAY OUR WAY’ Dated at the Law School, in the County of Dalhousie, this

* Snr jan age “CR REDI 18th day of October, A.D. 1940. Cousins |
EOPLES

_— lV | Kk. W. DISHER,
3 mm se .

SRA OD | Has) Dalhousie Supreme Moot ie ie : ee i e " LEI LEELA :

   

 

 

 

iy Y Bai Be sure and visit our optical department.

“Ss Ready With Le
o> New Evening Clothes | |

for the

Annual Law Ball

We extend credit to anyone anywhere in Canada.

 

a —

 

BLOSSOM SHOP

/ Ne | | 232 Quinpool Road

erie!
‘tay ; )
Hi I d iy
APPR oh ; ay
ahs ;
at) in
Behe cate ee

i a 7

. = ‘

“I
i
7
Ot
“I

oH
“
.
x

 

LNIGAd
AGQdNOaW

 

You'll want to look your best at this
big affair, and EATON’S is now showing many new fashions that will be
“hits” at the prom. Come in and see
the new arrivals .. . we think you’ll
like them!

“Flowers for Every Occasion”

   

~ ll

          
   

aay Evening Dresses
| | 3
eras | u ; Many New York imports with that
wi Evening Gowns Sportswear sophisticated simplicity you college
. girls love—yet lavish looking withal!
Gorgeous satins and crepes — some
with jackets. Sizes 14 to 20.

EATON Price, each 25.00 to 35.00

 
    
 
    
  

 
 
  
 

Afternoon Dresses

 
  

 
 

We Can Furnish
|

|

 

 
   
  
 

   
   
    
 

   

Accessories

You'll also find the correct accessories
—dainty shoes, sheer delightful silk
hosiery, wraps, and the many other
necessities on display at EATON’S.

| _ Always something different at reasonable prices.

     
 

Anything in Music

  

The Exclusive Style Centre.

  
 

C

 
 
  
  
 

Feit! Men’s Evening Toggery

For the men we present trim correct
styles in tuxedos and formal evening Aaa Hai We eS i
clothes and we can outfit you with -. ;

all other accessories to make your
evening apparel complete.

“T. EATON,

     
   
  
 

 
 

Harry Cochrane |

Musical Director C. P. R.
Pines Hotel, Digby.

Member of the A. F. of M.

   
   
   
   

   

gall | r

 
  

ra 48 Duncan Street
Phone L-9116 Halifax, N.S.

   

  

      
   
  
   
 

 

 

ae fe

   

er is the poet,

P iGonivivuted)

the artist,
the musician and the playwright

- eounted as great as the social re_ former or the scientist? Why do we
bother remembering the names of
Dante, Michelangelo, of Beethoven

and Shakespeare along with names

of Abe Lincoln and Pasteur? Why

do even the Nazis take pride in as
serting that they have not destroyed
the great French cathedrals, the
artistic expression of the Middle
Ages? Are we arguing incorrectly
when wesay that beauty is worth
striving after, and that to create
something beautiful is the highest
achievement of a man?

Someone may answer that art is
important because art is an expression of that spirit or soul which man,
and man alone, possesses. Another

will say that art is an expression of |,

the emotions, of that part of us
which is the mainspring of our intellectual action. But, whatever our
theories about art may be, it is part
of our culture to pay lip-service to
its importance in man’s development.
In truth, it is lip-service only, for we
act as if music and poetry were |

merely pleasant forms of recreation, |
amusement for an idle hour when
nothing better offers. We have gone
even further, and desecrated the
Shrine. We have called jazz, music,
and the writings of eee Guest.
poetry. 
“Yes,” someone will say, “that is
too bad and we will remedy the
situation when we have dealt with
our economic problems”. ‘How can
anybody”, they will continue, “who
is salfering. from malnutrition and
from social insecurity, worry about
things of the spirit? No dead man
ever thought about art, no, nor one
who was half-dead, through starvation, either. We must feed their
stomachs first.” So our socialists
and our co-operators, our ministers
and our professors, talk about the
need for education, so that the masses will know how to build those institutions which will bring economic
self-sifficiency for all.

Adult education groups are start
-ed, social sciences are given an im
portant place on the school curricu
lum, yet every educator finds it difficult to arouse in the people of this
province an enthusiasm for the remedying of their own ills.

One can appeal to the people with
selfish or unselfish motives, but still
the masses stand contented, watch‘ing the ground slip away from under their feet.

In other words, there is an entire
lack of any motivating power, of
any enthusiasm, of any emotional
drive, There.is an enormous amount
of inertia, which threatens to engulf
us all and leave our society ripe for
dictatorship. This inertia is not due
by any means solely to ignorance.

Is it too far-fetched to suggest
that the reason we have so little motivating drive, so little emotional
power, is because our emotions have
practically disappeared through neglect and disuse?

How do you use your emotions?
One uses emotions in creative effort,
or in the appreciation of other
people’s creative efforts. But nothing
is being created in this province,
and no one is being trained in artistic appreciation. One needs as much
training to understand a work of
art, as to understand Einstein’s theory of relativity.

No one expects the intellect to
grow through neglect, nor should
one expect the spirit or the emotions
to develop when for three generations they have been disregarded.
How can a man have imagination
when he has never used it? Imagination is essential to group co-operation, unless co-operation is forced
upon us by dictators

I do not think that it is a coincidence that the group of professors
and students at the university who
are the most deeply interested in
social problems, are also those who
are the most keenly appreciative of
music and all forms of artistic ex
pression. Shakespeare said:

“The man who hath no music in
himself,

-_Nor is not moved with concord of

a

sweet sounds,
Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and

e, then this is

we
ad

.| Clay”.

NORRIE DOUGLAS

Margaret Eleanor (Norrie)
Douglas, Vice-President of the
Class of ’44, came here from the
New Glasgow High School. Norrie entered this school in 1936

and graduated from Grade 12
last year. During last year she
was president of her class and
represented the school on the
basketball team.

New Books
In The Library

A great many new booKS have been
addea to the livrary during the sumMer vacation. Not many ol these
are fiction, or even light non-fiction,
but there are some pooks, dealng
with present day problems, that are
easy to read, and irom these a tew
have been selected for review. tor
your convenience, the number of the
book in the library catalogue is
given, rather than the publisher’s
name and price.. Kemember, now is
your chance to get some outside
reading done, later there’ll be exams.

Singh, Anup—‘Nehru, the Kising
Star of India”. (DS5481 N39. S61).

This is a short but excellent account of the life of one of the great
leaders in India’s struggle for responsible government. One cannot
understand what is going on in India
today unless the conflicting personalities of Nehru and Ghandi stand
out clearly in the mind.

 

Utley, Freda — “Japan’s Feet of
(HC 462. V91).

Are you afraid that Japan is a
potential menace to the western
democracies? What do you think
the chances are of establishing a free
China? This book is a thorough
analysis of the economic situation in
Japan, and it will help you to answer
some of these questions from an
economic view point. One quotation
from the book read: “Japan’s most
important export is a raw material:
the silk produced by peasant labor.
This is a semi-luxury article sold
almost exclusively to her main rival,
the U.S. A. Without the money she
obtains from the U. S. for her silk,
she would not be able to buy raw
cotton for her principle industry;
moreover, the whole of her social and
economic fabric would fall toppling
to the ground, since the majority of
her peasants cannot exist, without
the subsidiary income they obtain
from silk culture, and since the
profits of her merchants from silk
are the primary source of capital
accumulation.”.

Dewey, John—‘“Freedom and Culture”. (JC423. D519)

Dewey, the noted American educator, starts his new book by asking
the following questions. ‘What is
freedom and why is it prized? Is
desire for freedom inherent in human
nature or it is a product of special
circumstances? Did man ever care
as much for it as we in this country
have been taught to believe?” If
you can answer him, don’t bother to
read his book, but we had all better

  

ie anything that a ahd ever wrote | think well, for, as Dewey says, “the|.
24 present state of the world is putting

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

JOHN McLELLAN

John McLellan is already well
known at Dalhousie. His school
was Sydney Academy where he
was president of the Athletic
Association. His age is 19, and
he has the experiences, initiative
and personality necessary to the
successful class president. With
his two charming cohorts to assist, McLellan should make a
good prexy.

 

PS We Men. SS
or Monkeys?" 3 1

——_a

 

 

Editor’s Note: The following column
was sent in by a former Dalhousie
student, now residing at his home in
the northern part of the southern
half of Siam, or is it Siwas? When
this chap arrived at Dal a few years
ago, he could speak only a few words
of English; today he speaks none.
For this reason, then, we offer
apologies to any who might read his
remarks.

GORRBLINGS
Someone, no doubt she of the
species female, once said, “A man’s

collar is a whitewashed fence around
‘a lunatic asylum.” Perhaps—perhaps. But if this is so, then a
woman’s hat is a roof over a birdcage and the first letter of the bird’s
name is “cuckoo”. Howsomever these
things may be, let’s not quarrel.

The purpose of this column, if any,
is not to criticize women, but to
castigate men, or rather the clothes
they wear. It’s the same old story
—convention and the usages of mankind. And those “old Debbils” certainly rule the roost.as far as masculine wearing apparel is concerned.
In short, men wear too many
clothes — hard collars, heavy bodybinding suits, and long winter underwear! All this in Heaven too?

Several years ago, this writer was
attending a clothing) manufacturers
convention in Chicago. The subject
of more freedom for legs, arms and
necks* was being vehemently discussed. One very conservative gentleman was heard to say:

“T’m quite satisfied with the suit
‘T’m wearing. I’ve got just oodles
and oodles of breathing space—it’s
my brother-in-law’s suit, and he
weighs 253 pounds in his stocking
feet!” This outburst was patently
due to a twofold desire to leave the

 

questions like these to all democratic
countries.”

Westermarch, E. A.—“Christianity
and Morals.” (BJ1251 W52).

Westermarch, who is a professor
of sociology, deals with such problems as Christianity and economics;
Christianity and the regard for
truth; Christianity and marriage,
from the point of view of a sociologist. You may not agree with
everything he says, but the. book is
well worth looking at.

Yeats, W. B. — “Last poems and
plays.” (PR5900. A3. 1940).
Any lover of Yeats and of modern
poetry will welcome this new volume.

 

 

MEET THE ReerTtl ee ('44)

 

—Courtesy Halifax Chronicle
CHRISTINE ARKLIE
Arklie,

Christine Secretary
‘ Treasurer of the Class of ’44

was born in Dartmouth. Until
the summer of 1939 she went to
the Halifax Academy. Gradu
ating from Grade 11 in 1989,
Christine spent a year at the
Sea Pines>School in Brewster,
Mass. While there she captained
their Basketball team.

Do You Know
The Book Club

Join Up For One Dollar

A Dalhousie institution, and aiso
a Halifax institution, that should be
better known to students is the Dalhousie University Book Club. it
offers a carefully selected, yet broad
education through the hundreds of
volumes of general interest that
come in each year from the British,
Canadian, and American press. Although no attempt is made to keep
up with the flood of books of popular
fiction, or OL books ox very tecnnical
interest In Special elds oL science,
a few eminent novels are vougne
each year. Through the book Crup,
a reader is kept abreast or the times
in the fields of travel, politics, scientific discovery, biography, belieslettres, etc. Any member may take
out two books at a time, witn the
privilege of retaining them itor uwo
weeks; or he may change tiem as
oiten as he wishes. The only charge
is the annual membersnip tee ot
~o.00. ‘To students of the university
is given the privilege of using the
Book Club for the small tee of $1.0u
for the session.

 

SYMPATHY!

Dave Smith awoke Thursday a. m.
(or p.m.) to find his most beloved
moustache was gone. He doesn’t
remember how or when—but we
know! Did they shave it off with
Ivory soap?

 

pemmcataapsleseedisiie etnies ibo spies nonsense
Status quot unchanged and at the
Same time promote more business
for manufacturers.

At this point a slight concession
must be made. Some men look very
smart in their snuggly-scratchy,
back-biting suitings, you say. Granted. Ah, but others look superbly
terrible! Some are non-fits. Others
are just fits.

And another thig—a cravat is an
irksome thig, God wot! That is
common knowledge. Why, ‘then, in
the name of all that is holey, do we
males, valiant espousers of the
tenets of free speech, free thot, and
free beer, sit supinely on the back
of our laps and refuse to divest ourselves of that-curse of civilization,
that essence of bondage, that silken
cord? (I’ll have one of those lovely
wine red ones with the purple
polka-dots, please.)

Your correspondent would like to
clothes with a stirring apparel: Men,
rise to the collars! Be Byronesque,
and a new freedom will be ours.
Slip-Slop clothing is on everybody’s
hips!

 

 

|

| there is a distinct confusion

| try

‘sponsorship of class activities, finan- |

| classes.

|rived at have yet to be embodied in |

'ed upon before the society launches |

}
October 18, 1940

 

Letter to The Editor

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

Sir,—At the next meeting of the)
Arts and Science Society, to be held
during the coming week, the executive of the society has assured that
all facts in any way connected with
the relations of the society, financial
and otherwise, with the classes of |
’42, 43 and ’44 will be allowed full |
discussion. I hope I may presume
on your valuable space to point this
out to the members of the various
classes.

This meeting should be of
ular interest to the class of

The
Third Estate

 

 

Should Arts and Science hold a
Formal Dance in the Gym?

KAY HICKS, 3rd year Arts:

Yes. I don’t see why we should
pay $3.50 for an hotel dance when
we have the gym right on the campuspus. .. Dirty? But you have to
have an evening dress cleaned practically every time you wear it, anyway.

DESIREE KEATING, Freshette:

There’s never been a formal dance
in the gym. Arts and Science might
|as well start something new.

cial situation, and all other doubtful |
HARRY SMITH, Post Grad:

points settled.
Various attempts were made last Sire, it would be all right—give
the girls a chance to dress up—

year to get a concrete understand- |
they all like that. Now, in Paris..

ing on the financial position of the|
soci i ati 9 the various!
society - Tae vce ue: | CONNIE SPINNER, 4th year Sc.:

i ; CL ” ._| No, the gym’s not the place for a
the constitution, it will be to the ad- | formal dance. The only advantage
Laer sl) eenicenot ko: have the | Would be that it would not cost the

; : boys so much for taxis to take the
various agreements definitely decid| Hall girls.

partic- |
43, as
among
the members of that class to to
where they stand with the society. |
It is hoped that all will turn out to|
and get the matter of dues, |

 

its proposed activities this year. A| REG. STUBBS, Public Adminis.:

good turnout at this meeting is ask-| Yes! (decisively) Arts and Science

ed of all membe*s. should hang together. Formal? Sure,
INTERESTED PARTY. |the sym can be fixed ap.

Freshmen “Word

Educational 1 Feature—

Associations (Continued from page 1)
UETOMIO S63 asks abt as Eight o’clock |27¢ Sent in, by the CBC.” All anyPag sy iat Martha one has to do is to send in their
PPE ate ec) etncaueat ete As ms Chautauqua questions or ideas to the CBC. “Then
Rab ccc ins these questions will be presented by
Lopes ithy coct ie Beau. Nisnsenns representatives of the workers and
PN eMe A ne ithe sig See: es formers to a panel of distinguished
| Knowledge ot Oe Ned ie tainacaitle Canadians, parliamentarians, auHeh) 9 2) ia a a Out thors, political scientists, industrial
Bomb: Wua ves abet Nuts leaders.”

Marriage............. Money The broadcasts are Wednesday
Movies bacue. bata a Back Row evenings, at 10.30 p. m. Atlantic
PORTED. i sibs ha Me Standard Time.

BREA rat sn tccia eae des Magazine Oct. 16th—“How Did We Get That
BIOGEN A ve kab cnisteres Insurance Way?”

WAGE yw ss chicas ce, Gin Oct. 30th—‘How the Wheels Go
EAGUD eis ak cwctoan . Whoopee Round.”

Paneer ve Port wee. Intermission | Nov. 18th—“Freedom—For Whom?
Paha hci scales Packard | To do What?”

Collages ii oes Joues Sleepless Nov. 27th—“Economic Security—Is

It Possible?”
Dec. 1lth—Can We Make Good?”
Jan. 15th—

Why Plan For the

—Silver and Gold

My parents told me not to smoke,
I dont,

Nor listen to a naughty joke,

f Gomi _. |Artsmen Greeted
The made it clear I mustn’t wink | (Continued trom Page One)

At pretty girls, or ie. think Ideas for the year’s activity were
About intoxicating drink, outlined, chief of which include a

Future?”

 

I don’t. formal dance in the Gym, prominent

To flirt and dance is very wrong, visiting speakers to address the

I don’t. students, ways to provide society

Wild youth choose women, wine and| members with more than their
song, money’s worth paid in dues.

I don’t.

In passing we might say that a
banner attendance is expected at the
next meeting when the budget will
be presented by the. president . .
Don’t miss it!

HERE AND THERE
IN THE COLLEGES

Articles in Harpers Magazige and The Atlantic Monthly for October
deal with opinions and attitudes of students toward society as brought
to light by the question of War. Both paint the picture pretty black,
referring to university youth as sceptical, self-seeking, and without much
faith or purpose. Says one: “They seem to have grown up without
allegiances that could be betrayed, with a moral philosophy to renounce.”

I. This Pre-War Generation by Mortimer Adler.

II. Undergraduates and the War by Paul Craus.

I kiss no girls not even one,
You wouldn’t think I had much fun,
I don’t.

—KEngineering ’43. |

    

 

Last week at Columbia University, President Nicholas Murray Butler,
in a speech recalling similar circumstances twenty-three years ago when
two professors had been dismissed for opposition to World War No. I,
declared:

“Before and above academic freedom of any kind comes university

freedom, which is the right and obligation of the university itself to
pursue its high ideals unhampered and unembarrassed by conduct on
the part of any of its members which tends to damage its reputation.
Behind the war of conflicting political doctrines . . . there lies the war
between beasts and human beings .. . Let there be no doubt where
Columbia University stands in that war.”

.

s* * & *

Next day a storm of protest arose.
statement was “identical with totalitarianism”. Hissed the New York
Herald Tribune “L’universite C’ést moi.” Somebody scrawled on the
bulletin board of Columbia’s Law School “Heil Butler’.

John Dewey observed that the

Commenting in a leading editorial that few will take issue with Dr.
Butler’s sympathy with Britain, The Nation, Oct. 12, goes on to point out
that “the university men of Great Britain who may still talk as they please
would be the first to condemn his high handed denial of academic freedom.”

 
ree
*

Sef Poe

OF SURNETT A. RALSTON, B.Sc.

h “Burnie” Ralston needs no
Pe istion to anybody who has read

Me she Newspapers te the past ten

P en

E Pcaisén,
one year when his guhiptic ability

; iP BB
=. Ba

P tallied 17 of the 25 goals scored by

re
okt ‘
j

He was born in the south shore |
n of Shelburne in 1912, where he
sived his grade school education.

took Grade VIII and IX
mris St. School, Halifax,
de X in Halifax High. He grad
from St. John High in 1929, a

four letter man in Sport.

B from. here on, his career follows a

se. which every young man

reams of, but seldom attains. He
ered Acadia University and was

a j Jeader in every phase of College

He gave up hockey in favor
basketball and it was largely due
his ability that Acadia established

hoop reputation.
He graduated from Acadia with a
BSc. having established a reputation
which has been seldom equalled, as
all around athlete in rugger,
asketball, track and field, and
He attended Dalhousie for

ee ..

-came to the fore.

> Was ‘prominent in St. John
iors’ ‘climb to ” Maritime Senior
ors, as high scoring forward; he

TL€

“held | the short field berth of Ketepec

A Aces, New Brunswick softball titlists.
While in hardball he was second
eman for the St. John Baptist
He played for the St. Andrews

| 5 joecer club in 1939.
iF 5 “In English Association Football he

ayedfor the St. John “Dry Docks”
‘and later for the “Post Royals”. He

e “Dry Docks” in one season.

Er “Burnie” lead the Dalhousie Rug
ger team which almost took the

McCurdy Cup from Caledonia in

i

te ‘His: swimming attainments include
the saving of two lives.

Burnie was declared winner of the

Clark award in 1939, given to the

ppictne athlete of St. John, taking

oo. points out of a poll of

, he
. e a “Clark Award”, is based on
ity Dy Bee chief qualities—“general ability”

in|
and| tress and Director of Girls’ Sports

a part time capacity.
| 1938 (Phyllis accept¢d the post as/| Charlie Gordon was only making time, Major, popping all his pantie butSince then|last year.
under her able guidance the Co.-Ed’s| formed’ red head is also in first year how”.
athletic activities have shown a|now.

PHYLLIS WRAY BARRATT

It is with great pride that we
introduce Mrs. George Barrett, formerly Miss Phyllis Wray to the readers of Who’s Who. Fortunately the
bonds of maternity didn’t take Phil
away from us, and as well as being
a Mrs. she is still Physical Instruc
at Dalhousie.

* *

_Phil was born in Lethbridge, Alberta, and started her education at|
St. Hilda’s in Calgary, as an Art)
student. This was soon set aside
however, for a course in Physical
education at Margaret TEaton’s
School in Toronto. Any one whoever
attended Margaret Eaton’s seems to
know Phil.

Upon graduating in 1987, Miss
Wray came (further East

The Strange Case of the Bottomless/and his

|
i

to, up his pen.

«“ - Rufus Rayne Fi. Rangoon «

Biped, or
By Jingo if you Dolt.

CHAPTER 3
When Minna McMean and her fol
lowing of friendly frails clanked into

the Haul last week in her number
18 rattler longest wait no springs,
the Gelta Dammit Sobriety was having its bimonthly stir at the witches

brew. Barber Schnortz in her capacity as seezal knowzol was answer
ing a question posed by the philosophical Merry McDeacon as _ to
whether or not the war had brought
about a decline in the general standard of loving. Supposing, she was
vacantly shouting above the chatter,
supposing we take the party of the
first part, to wit and not withstanding nonetheless, in the case of Jeems
the Doorkeeper, a breach of the
peace if there ever was one. He was
old Auntie Oldbuck’s first and only
sweetheart and Auntie, by a judicious use of double entendres and
salted peanuts, had lured him into
the elevator and stopped it between
floors. “Don’t be so old fashioned,”
snorted Inda Manger, “I can tell you
a better. one than that about Jay
Song’ Woodbelly, ie Chinese fiend,

OE EE a

Having obtained the sheet of
yellow paper from the former writer
begin with hesitancy to take

It may be difficult to |

Halifax to take up the position of replace him but it’s not impossible. |
Physical Instructress at the Y. W.| Bear with us, dear reader, and say |
C. A. During this same year she | ‘99’ each Friday.

got her introduction to Dalhousie in
In the fall of

Physical Instructress.

marked and decided improvement.
Modestly Phil gives all the credit
to the suecess of physical education

to the girls and the D.G.A.C. She) girls, were very much in evidence at.
is extremely gratified by the inter-|the Council

eee Ok

A certain prof. is wondering if |
“At all events the ‘re-|

Does she like Marlborough
woods, Charlie?

*#

The Meds, even though short of |

% *
)

Dance last Tuesday. |

i'my friend Hokum has any beer.

demountable — roadster.”
“Velly solly to change subject” interrupted Joan Gloomytress sympathetically, but Phyllis without a
Wray of Barratts was invited here
to give an exhibition of weight lifting and she ean’t weight any longer
—har har. Whereupon a flurry of
fanfares was sounded and after
several dramatic explosions had occurred, a graceful cloud of campfire
smoke dissolved and Phyllis stepped
out of her teepee, clad in a lion skin
and a silver fox choker, with a
cannon ball under each arm.
The Horrible Mr. Hokum

Unable to get ourselves out of this
predicament by fair means we now
adopt foul and turn our attention to
that foulest of all felons, Wilbur P.
Fizzleque, who, soulfully singing,
“Take oh take those lips away, lights
that do mislead the men,” was toasting hamburgers at the dying embers
of his desire and dreamingi of his
lost love Kissy. The luckless Wilbur
at this moment had his reverie
shattered by the gusty arrival of
Pixie Pellet, who was chasing a salamander in and out among the bleachers. Come my pet, shouted Pixie
and see this theologue Flossie
Umstrung has under her microscope,
that will cheer you up no end. You
mean it would end me up no cheer,
sassily retorted the freshman oddity
and speaking of cheer, I wonder if
So
saying, the ungrateful Fizzleque dis
The

We have it on very good authority
that the sore ankle wasn’t the only
thing that kept “Kissy” home from
the Freshie-Soph. Maybe “Diggy”
didn’t have “Joan” Fur long, but we
understand it turned out to be
“quite an evening” .

+ &

“Lightning” MacKenzie has found
that it doesn’t pay to make dates too
far ahead. Did “Gummy’s” arrival
on the day of the dance put our Jack
on the spot, or was it his interest in
the “Freshman Activities” ?

* x

*

oe

Cy Kempston’s touching concern
for the chaperones at the Frosh
Brawl make us realize that beneath
the outward habiliments of gentility
there beats a heart that would make
Emily Post proud.

* % *

Conspicuous by her absence at the
F. S. was “True-Blue” Christie. Has
she run out of Navy, or has Navy
run out on her?

x * *

Speaking of Navy, we understand
that Johnny MacInnes is plus one
fraternity pin and minus one Marie.

¥* +

We wonder if the affinity the

appeared into Major Hokum’s private | Shirreff Hall Freshettes have for the

dugout, where moans of dismay from | Pine Hillbillies is chemical or, physi-|

the corner centred his attention on
Gallstone’s troup of tame tigers arrayed in kilts and trussed neatly
into bundles of five, tagged “Somewhere in Angleterre, handle with
medium care — steerage,” ready for
shipment on the next convoy. Ding
bust you Major, Crutch McLimpy
was remonstrating from under Wub'ber McTunnelled’s toupee, we gotta
meet the navy tomorra. “You’ll meet
the navy alright my boy” tittered the

tons in undisguised merriment, “And

The Squealer
Shocked by the uncouthity of the
proceeding, Wilbur P. rushed into
the. gymnasium, followed by Red
Payne, who was reciting his lines
“Know you, wretched youth, that

est which the girls are showing and | Their meeting we hear was quite | you must not smoke, belch, expectrusts that their interest may grow. |exciting and rumour has_ it that | torate in the corners or otherwise

We feel sure that it will, under her
capable management and guidance,
for this alone she deserves a hand
and for the benefit of the girls we
hope she keeps up the good work.,

_- “Cofduet or sportsmanship” —
“popularity” and “Color” and “most
value to the team”.

“Burnie” is married and
proud father of a son.

His appointment to Dalhousie
came in the summer of 1938 in recognition of his sports leadership. His
suecess as coach speaks for itself
—more to follow—we hope!

is the

my - Brylcreem, pal, and get a gal

| With most ladies, neatness comes first. Well-groomed hair

: if 7 ‘\ an finds acceptance. Remember, BRYLC

Boe eo cee ae aie
hs a. Ope ond the oooig, niiss

oe

@ Checks anes ing dandruff
and falling hair; avoids
{

2 Fights on baldness; encourages

i a le : SV Seactlk Ss kicks ue antcea wane over
Lives HOR sant ost Get the new 25c size tube
feign’ :

dealer oar: For extra economy buy the big 50c tube

Ralph (Cuddles) Plummer made a |
grave mistake during the election of |
officers.

a *

James (Doctor) Watson should
obtain the help of the great Sherlock these days. On Friday last he
even had his brunetts mixed—maybe
he’s. taking refuge in numbers.

x *

Not to be outdone by/ Willie (Tatamagouche ) Murray, Harrigan was
seen making passes at the blonde
Doris one day last week. No luck,
Ed? "

* % *

Full news of the week-end festivities are not yet at hand but it
appears that Leo (Ah, come on,
Sam!) Greene was celebrating witha
cook on Sunday evening.

* * e

The third years, we don’t blame
them, have givén up hissing, stamping and jeering for coin tossing. We
think this is aptly suited to their
mentalities—nice course, Hygiene!

ok a *

It is reported that Bruce McConnel
and Ralston Ryan are to start a
home for forlorn lovers and car
drivers. It is said that Ryan has
lost his liberty and Bruce his car.
Maybe these boys will take up studying, now, just for a change.

; * * *

Can Fiendel find time for Blondes
and military training? It’s also
hard on Ingraham, but don’t worry,

boys, Lawton and Shirley are ready

to look after all lonely girls for the
duration. By the way, Lew, who’s
keeping Mickey’s fire burning these

nights?

* & ®

And now, dear patients, we end for :

this week but beware of the man

with the stethoscope — he hears all ||

the breath sounds, heart thrills and

Sone

ao s :
A + “by a
; 5 oak
* os a o we ane
ic a

halen NUD IS, | er
ati a Oca |

disfigure the beauty of this noble
edifice” (aside) “I must ask Prof.
Freaksome what that means’. Cease
your prattle my lugubrious friend,
quoth Wilbur and tell me where is
H. Rubbermug Smythe, I have a
piece of news of pith and moment
to impart. Thomewhere downthairth,
mimicked Red uproariously, He’s
getting in shape for his annual |
shinny up the flagpole. Simultaneously with this utterance, a piercing |
shriek was heard as Warden Thinly
roared in the window in his wingless
Heinkel. Follow me cads, cackled the
daring Thinly,looping through the
basketball hoops in turn, I’m going
to put the wind up the chemics down
in the Haunt of the Ghouls. Clinging on to the remnant of the fusilage, Fizzleque, Payne and Rubbermug Smythe where whisked thru the
window and quickly disappeared
from view.
a

Will Smythe save the tigers? Will
the tigers save democracy? Will we
ever know? Will you be back next
week—suckers ?

To The Class
of 744

For the class pins and
rings Birks have new
designs and attractive
prices.

We invite your Committee to come in and take
advantage of our experience,

Henry Birks &
Sons

Diamond Merchants

= a ape o 2
fel th fi ie i lice si rites Vals;
hfines ae ine
ee sabes tt ‘de iy sp i i

eal 2

He 4

The early appearance of Bill Meade

 

We wonder if Ken and Austin
(two Med students) are ‘All Wright?
after their holiday in Cape Breton,
Is Inez interested in Theology or
Dan? Perhaps Neil might know!

* * *

We’re sorry that the circumstances
of Clayton’s holiday at home couldn’t
have been more pleasant — it’s always hard to break off old ties,
though, isn’t it?

*

* *

The visit of two fair Cape Bretoners over the week-end was responsible, we are told, for the twin expressions of bliss on Ben Wilson and
Lloyd MacLeod at the Phi Rho party
on Saturday night.

* a *

There are three kinds of Freshettes:
(1) The Beautiful.
(2) The Talented.
(3) The Majority.
Ask theeman who owns one.
#

FABLES FROM THE [TCH,
OR GRAHAM’S LAMENT

And here’s a toast to Shirreff Hall,

When you’re dating one, you date
them all,

For if at first you don’t succeed,

To try again is rash indeed.

The wagging tongues that there reside

Have wounded
pride.

*

many’s the manly

and Co. on the campus the morning| So, Freshmen, hearken to this ditty,
after is'not due to the fact that they| And find your dates around the city.

got up early.

CA Plt Ob

THEATRE - HALIFAX

ea ne

ALL THIS WEEK

BOOM
TOWN

CLARK GABLE
CLAUDETTE COLBERT
SPENCER TRACY
HEDY LAMARR

 

CASINO

NOW!
WALLACE BEERY

“WYOMING”
a

EXTRA!
LAUREL AND HARDY

paar SON Neccast

“BUSYBODIES”

 

 

—(No apologies to anybody)

OXFORD |

Midnite Show Sunday
Friday and Saturday

“U BOAT 29”
“Swiss Family Robinson”

Monday and Tuesday,
- “OF MICE AND MEN”
Burgess Meredith
and Betty Fields
“CHUMP AT OXFORD”
Laurel and Hardy

ORPHEUS

Today and Saturday
‘WAGONS WESTWARD’

and

“MILITARY ACADEMY”

STARTING MONDAY
“Love, Life & Laughter”
GRACIE FIELDS
and “Gangs of Chicago”

GARRICK

Friday and Staurday

“ANDY HARDY MEE
DEBUTANTE”

Monday and Tuesday
“Saturday’s Children”
“Goldrush Maisie”

Wednesday and Thursday

“Flight Angels”
“Wildcat Bus”

 

The National Fish Company, Limited

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX

NOVA SCOTIA

 
     
  
  

  

Bit clan
be a tity oe |

tx

 
  

and really have a case to present)
in favor of their opinion. Not to

ay that the Tigers will do this but
_ there was a feeling at the game with
Tha - Wanderers that more than a little
favoritism was being shown by both
referees towards the Redmen. Jack

Pe
.

 
  

Week-end Play.

      
   

ae
Are

aa

 
 

* *

Wanderers club was a particularly
re unfortunate choice anyway for the
position of an impartial judge in an|"“
- important’ contest. This did not| Win

mr) of
ase) “|
Poe ey

vi

Saturday, but became disorgan
at Redland by a bare three

»

mean to crab out the thing, the game| New Glasgow on Monday.
‘is over. But let it be a warning tha
in the future impartial men should
be chosen for referees.

It was under the apparently all| ~~ seeing eye of Chief Petty Officer
__*-MaeDonald that the penalty kick was

Bote eee i vp field sidelines and, passing a num
: Mee vi ber of Navy players, went over for
it is a peculiar thing that when the
second Dal man in the s¢rum heeled a try while they were still watching
‘the legal. | 2i™- |

ee oe - cs cane MacRitchie failed to convert. WebAN ts setae aparently not seen. Dal ber and Spiddell engaged in punting
were not entirely little angels on the
field. Not a few of the penalties| ~~ | ’
meted out were deservedg However, | SUMS ground which Dal took back
many a Wanderer’s heel and fist left with dribbling attacks.

a bruise that is still sore. It is to|_ Second score for Dal was made by
the eredit of the Dal team more Bus Phillips, who placed the ball
than their opponents that a fight did fairly between the uprights on a

not break out twice during the course | Penalty kick. Navy carried the atof the game ; tack to Dal’s ten yard line immedi
* ately after this score, but were un
. : : : able to get the ball across. Neilson
The former Mount A. star ean go] leved the pressure by an exceed.
like the wind. The look on three pera sen thtoush the: center a

Me i | the field.
eg Bs. tke ee bel Yank Forsythe took the~ball on a
try of the game was one of astonish- smooth passing play se = a
ment to say the least. We have backfield to go over for the last Da

"Neil ; ti- tally in the closing seconds of the
ae ho ee first half. He battled through half
tion at a track meet but we'll now F
BT eas ; : the Navy squad to reach the line.
credit the exclamation of friends who ie AY.

, MacRitchie converted. »
have. Wanderers had the tall fellow Bi Re occas A Ninh soassinrs Ke
marked on Saturday but in future VY

ua” the attack, led by the beautiful
conteste: te breakaways should not punting of Spiddell. Navy punted

won, Sig Neilson, in a series of long,
sparkling runs, kept Dal well into
Navy’s field for the greater part of
the game. In the opening minutes
Neilson broke away along the left

:

|

‘

)

x *

be so eet: bis down the field during the greater
Fee part of the game, while Dal was
‘Much may depend on the coming | forced to run or dribble the ball

game with Truro to be played to- back.
- morrow. Acadia has yet to lose a

Climaxing a long series of sallies
game in the series and is. now con- :

‘\on the Tiger goal line, Don Bauld
_ Sequently leading the league. Dal finally went over for the bluejackets

has a bare chance to forge ahead if | and then converted his try. Hard
the Axemen drop a couple of their play was featured by both sides
femaining three contests but that | throughout the second half.
chance is very slim. We are picking Joe Fieldel saved a Navy score in
Dal to take Truro by a margin of at| the last part of the game by forcing |
least three tries. This is not much | Jay out almost in touch.
of a limb to get out on but it is the A good crowd of Navy supporters
best that we a - a present. were on hand to cheer their squad

; and a fair representation from Dal.

The Cubs need practice. They need | The day was hot and play in the last
the assistance of those experienced half slowed considerably as a result.
me of English rugby and have not tried for the
senior team. The backfield is weak.
The punting is good all told. The a
scrum is just mediocre. A little pep,
A little mspiration, some experienced
players and they will go places.

. * * &

 

 

DAL CUBS TROUNCED

Dal Cubs took a trouncing from
more experienced and smoother
working Navy fifteen to the tune of
8—3. Play centered around the midfield strip for the greater part of the
second half, with Dal pushing the
play at intervals behind long kicking by Jack MacKenzie. Surging
back and forth with dribbling attacks, the two teams did not manage
to score for the first half.

During the second period, however, the Cubs got away to a good
start;.with Jack MacKenzie making
4 a penalty kick near Navy’s uprights. Navy forced right back down
the field and did the same, with Lapierre, who was scheduled for the
senior bluejackets, doing the booting.

Scott then came back for the Navy
and scored a try which Lapierre eas‘)ily converted. Navy carried the play

for the greater part of the second

For the information of the Tiger
forwards a scrum should endeavour
to get the ball out to their backfield
as well as push the other forwards
all over the playing surface. Outweighing most of the forward lines

_ In the City League Dal has not been
coming out even on the scrums due
to the fact that someone just isn’t
heeling. The other forwards are re
___ lying on skill with their heels to get

____ the ball to the backfield. Weight is

@ great advantage and it must be

utilized. Let Neilson, Forsythe,

Martell, Feindel, MacIntosh and

Burke have a chance to get it over

for those tries really count.
* * *

ae A little humble pie is in order.|with college authorities we sensed

_ Not much though because as sug-|a real feeing among the student body

gested here there was no astonishing|there that the “no intercollegiate
turnout to the first Dal home game|sport” ruling just might have been
| of the year Saturday. Navy and city|aimed against the commercialized

a people by far filled the stands. Thejaffairs called sporting events in
_ band was there. We're still Scotch| Upper Canada. There was a large

enough to want a real good ten|body of opinion and there still is a

dollars’ worth. large body among Dal students who
pws nee Brie Rg feel that way too. But here a reayon _ Upon consulting exchanges we find|sonable attitude of discussion and
our fri from Mount A. have de-| decision has been taken in the mated, and quite patriotically too they|ter. The finger on the pulse of
| thi k, to give back all the money | public opinion has not dictated as it
oa. fey have been collecting for a new |is sensed it has in the case of the
# os rink, They also are not going to sister institution. The rule of reaee ae bother _ about intercollegiate sports soning prevails here. Opinion conhae es any more. They are very, very trary to that of official quarters has
ss purist a o t it all and now intimate been tempered to official rulings.
ver thought of anything else.| (e.g. City League) There is a dif
a meeting of their officials ference of attitude and method. 
 

 

 

 

er ae

it

A

   
 

7

 
     

iH
cm

  

     
  

¢

Ct
Z

duels at seyeral points throughout |
the contest that resulted in Navy)

Se Ce aie” | (GT h
hye. ae at an (ALS.
h :

4
‘2
ii?

” @2.tyhs, oket
5 ‘a

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

NAVY DEFEATED! |
ON SATURDAY, 11-5 "° Again
Cubs Have Little Success Against Navy and New Glasgow In

Poor Refereeing Feature of Redland Contest.

* ok

After a week-end of football Dal Tigers and Cubs retired
Buckley, being an official of the|{o lick their wounds Tuesday and chalked up only one victory in
four games. The Tigers were successful in downing Navy 11-5

ized Monday to let Wanderers
points. Cubs took a trimming

bother Jack in the least. We do not|/from Navy Intermediates Saturday and another defeat from

Inthe one contest which the Tigers@——_—_ _—_\|]|{‘—_____—_
 

FULLBACK
Webber

THREE QUARTERS
Fiendel
Forsythe
Neilson
MacIntosh

HALVES
Martell
Ferguson
Burke

FORWARDS
MacDonald
McRitchie
Jefferson

Vail

Phillips
MacGregor
erland or Smith

{

 

Suth

Tw

)

—

   
  

  
 

 

~ SN

 

  

—

  

—.

    

 

the Cubs any too gentle towards the
end of the game.

The backfield, with its multiferous
fumbles, however, was responsible
for the Dal downfall. Invariably,
whenever a clear spot appeared, the
Cubs would drop the ball and kick
it around until Navy had time’ to
form up a well organized dribbling
assault. One player in particular
was guilty of this offense.
quick kicking kept the blue men
back a number of times,

 

The catastrophic match as far
as Dal was concerned was the defeat sustained at the hands of the
Wanderers, Monday afternoon, on
the first game of a double bill.

Hard, tough playing was the main
feature of this game.
was well marked by the red and
blacks,

Flaring tempers on both sides|

nearly broke out into a melee in both
the first and second halves of the

game, but players on each side had! Seaman.

the hotheads under control.

The refereeing was particularly
bad in both halves.
period the whistle was handled by
Jack Buckley, head of the committee managing the Redmen. In
the second it was handled by C,
P.O. MacDonald, coach of Navy,
who should have known better.

The kicking of Doug Spruin of the |
Wanderers also figured heavily in the |

yardage gains on each side. Webber
could not go the lengths that Spruin|
apparently achieved with ease. Low|
dribbling attacks held the Wanderers off from ‘the Dal line for the
first half, although much ground
was lost due to free kicks given to/|
the former at various vital points in
the game.

Wanderers’ tally came early in
the second half when Referee MacDonald gave Wanderers a free

kick on Dal’s twenty-five yard line |

.

)

Nice |

Sig Neilson |
got away on a few nice runs, but)

}

| lan.
Cubs: Murray, Wiswell, McLellan, |

Tigers Meet

Dal Tigers meet Truro in the

‘Hockey Plans
|Are Discussed

=

At a meeting of the City Hockey

fourth game of the City League League held Wednesday evening in
schedule here Saturday. As Truro the Gym no definite action was taken
have yet to win a game since they|#" Tegard to the coming season’s

started the year in senior competition, confidence has been expressed
by the whole team as to the outcome. Coach Burny Ralsten will
play the same team that he has been
sending into the contests up to the
present.

Truro are expected to show up
| with their regular squad, who, al|though they have been defeated,

hockey but it was unofficially decided
that the league would be senior this
year and would include six teams if
at all possible. Bain Munro, president of the league, presided at the
gathering which representatives
from Navy, Air Force and Tech at
tended.

Air Force in particular promises
to turn out a strong squad. Navy

 

|have not lost heart and are out to | also has a number of prominent
| take the measure of the Tigers if it players lined up. As no Dal reprecan be done. The seniors scored an| S@ntative was present at the meet
first contest of the season, but the
team from the Hub has put a lot of

| counter.
A good crowd is expected to attend this the first “free” game of

and fans are hoping for a continua‘tion of the fair weather that has
marked all the contests in the league
'so far. There have been no games
cancelled on account of precipitation
in any shape or form.

An intermediate match will be ar
 

\ | ranged for the Cubs if opponents are
(\to be found. Whether this will be
(| played at home or elsewhere is not | /

| known at present.

took a big toll of hard fought gains

on the part of the Tigers through-|
half. Poor refereeing did not make|0ut the second half. At the end of| ¢

the game Wanderers had put on a
power drive that

scrum was without result as the
play ended. It is not known whether
the refereeing will be protested by
‘the Dal team.

The Intermediates fared no better
than the Seniors on Monday, as*they
were defeated by the same score by
a picked team from New Glasgow in
lthat town. This was the second
game for the Cubs and they apparently did not do enough home-work

 

come New Glasgow.
The same faults

with the natural result.

 

Tigers: Webber, Feindel, Forsvthe.
MacIntosh, Neilson, Martell, MacLeod, Burke, Jefferson, MacRitchie.
Phillips, Vail, Sutherland,

 

' MacLeod, Travis.

Wanderers: Spruin, Dickinson, Hutton, Bauld, Joudrey, Eaton, West.
Meagher, Lownds, Wall,
Cohn, Arthurs, Nickerson, MacLel
Crory, J. McKenzie, Ferguson, H.
MeLellan, P. Smith, McCollough, |
Murphy, Goodman, Dunsworth, Kirkpatrick, Roby, Hagen.

Holland. |

Smith,

| Navy: Spiddell, Jay, Pell, Arnott. |
| Vickers, Bauld, MacInnis, Blades,
In the first | Gunn, Davidson, Lloyd, Bates, Pack, |

|experience behind it since that en-|

'the season on Studley. The players|

sent them down) /
the field after a Tiger attack to the|
|Dal 20 yard line and there a final |

over Sunday to enable them to over- |

in the backfield
made themselves apparent again |

!

fect it.

Another meeting will be
Monoday at 8.00 and representatives
of all the interested teams will be
asked to attend to elect officers and
| organize for the year. Votes will be
‘taken on the entrance of Tech and
| Army and whether the league will be
senior or intermediate before.
Kings has withdrawn from the cir‘euit for this year. The City inter|collegiate circuit will not be operating as far as is known at present.

| ———EEE

as

 

 

r

 

7.30 - 9.30

~ — ~—

 

 

 

 

M.A., M.Sc.

Course in Public Administration.

 

Navy Intermediates: Harper, Holley, Besingneault, A. Vickers, Roland, Connolly, Irvine, Jukes, Tobin,
J. Jones, Burchell, Lapierre, Owens,
Seribener, Mirand.

 

 

 

for interfering. Spruin booted the |
ball over without difficulty.

Wanderers’ scrum, although pushed over much of the playing surface |
by the heavier Dal ‘forwards, heeled
the ball consistently to their backfield. Joudrey and Bauld made good
use of it when it came out.

Wanderers also tackled hard and
often when the Dal backfield took
up the ball.

In the latter part of the first half
Dal was well into Wanderers’ territory but were unable to seore before
the whistle blew. In the second half
Wanderers took up the attack and
Dal was hampered -considerably by
the lowering sun.

The Tiger backfield became disorganized after the Reds completed
their sole tally. Wanderers’ heeling

  

 

 

‘TIGERS SUFFER DEFEAT FROM WANDE

October 18, 1940

RERS

Interfaculty Football
To Be Started Soon

soon as the military program

and soccer competitions.

Interfaculty sports will begin as
is
finalized. The first games to be
played will be interfaculty football
Kings also
may take part in these since there is
no intermediate league this year.
Other sports will get underway when
time onthe gym floor has been

finally apportioned.

 

 

Physical Training Classes
Open in Few Days

The physical training classes for
the new students under eighteen or

| easy victory at the Truro field in the | ing it is not known just what action | ynable to take military training be| the university will take in this sport+| cause of their medical category wil]
| Military training will doubtless af-) hesin at the earliest posible time ac
|cording to physical instructor Burny

held |

Ralston. Those taking the O.T.C.
and training course will not be required to take the extra training. As
the classes will be greatly reduced
this year it is hoped that the gym
floor will be available for the students during most of the mornings.
This will in part make up for the
time lost through the extra hours
allotted to the military authorities.
Hockey

DAL OFF HOURS

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the
Seven Courses are admitted as GENERAL STUDENTS,

The Evening Classes are Held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
Tuition $5 per Month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING
will be a valuable aid in future years.

ENTER ANY DAY. Tuition counts from date of Registration.
a a

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Se. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

SS

a7

——vGeS eS Oe SS oe ee eee ee ee

)

Ca

te “lai

  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
     
    
    
  
   
   
 
   

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

| Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
| Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics

Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.
| The Professional Faculties

in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

This will Delight MILLIONS

—4 FLAVORS
CHOCOLATE
BORDEAUX

oF Ve Vs
VANILLA

 
