ear < down in 1918 and is deto hold it high, until this
table Sonat and his foul

+
Taeft ls

big ‘The answer in most cases,
aL) ew sure, would be, “little in, Such, however, should not

ents of Dalhousie.
ove too, can help a great deal!
a By buying ‘var savings
stamps. ‘Do I hear some answer,
* rin a. can’t afford it.” Tommyrot!
: How much do you spend on shows,
dances and other luxuries

 

"Remember, fellow students, there
is not. too much luxury in London
today. Think of what those heroic
hice are going through! Shouldn’t
we feel ashamed of our efforts? I
\ think Bos

Ours is a great responsibility in
these days of war, for it falls on
4 us back home to supply the “silver
_ bullets” that are so essential to
Pe E any. war.
oS. ‘Let us resolve today that we will
: each buy at least one war savings
stamp a week from this day forward. A smal] sum indeed. Who
| amongst us cannot lay aside one
quarter a week for such a grand
— eause? It might mean one less
package of cigarettes, one less
fm _ show, or one less soda or two, but
owe should look upon such as a
- grand privilege and thank God for
Ets
r x Remember, fellow students, if we
were on the Continent of Europe
_ these days, it wouldn’t be in the
university we’d be—’twould be on
the battlefield with the rest.

“Never before in the history of
the world has so much pees owed
to so few by so many,” claims
Churchill. Timely words these. Let
Dalhousie students be amongst those
who recognize the truth of these
words, | and Tet us do our little to
help. —

An lasing 700 eauats at our
university, each buying one stamp
i. se. week, four stamps a month, from
now till May Ist, we would be asing the Empire’s war effort by
tts grand total of $2100.00—enough
_ to a an ambulance; as one in‘ tance — ‘an ‘ambulance that some
y may rush you or I to hospital
the battlefield in time to save
i foes of our lives.
Bie i a us start oe) war savings

   
   
 
  
  
  

q im,

es
—

  
   
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
  

 

 

 

NOTICE

“An studenta in Arts and Science
Bi hit . to take extra work for dison oe reminded that all ap
an DEEEEEREREEEEeeEenne

- a a a a ee er ns ee

DEADLINE
SET FOR
YEAR BOOK

Photos must be taken before
Jan. 3ist.— Staff asks for cooperation. .

If the 1940-41 “Pharos” is to be

Jin the hands of the students within

a reasonable time, the one hundred
and seventy-five prospective graduates must have their picture taken
by January 31. Robert Norwood,
Gauvin and Gentzell, Myers, or
Climo will do the job, but it is suggested that the various faculties
try to concentrate their sittings at
one establishment as much as possible.

At the présent time the Year
Book is as follows: Editor: A. W.
MacDonald, Associate Editor: Inez
Smith, Photographic Editor: Wasyl
Kapak, Art Editor: Betty Bligh,
Itinerant Photographer: Bert Perrot, Sports Editor: Alec MacIntosh.
This staff will be extended. Those
interested are advised to get in
touch with the editor.

Orders for a Year Book must be

placed, and paid for, by February
20th. They are selling for $1.50
and may be procured from: Henry
Reardon, Web- MacDonald, Wasyl
Kapak, Harry Smith, Bunny Morse,
Ruth MacQuarrie, Inez Smith.

Snapshots or interesting material
of any kind will be gratefully accepted by the staff. Let us cooperate so you will have the Year
Book in your hands at a reasonable
date.

 

INTER VARSITY
ADDRESSES

A series of weekly addresses will
be held on Thursdays at 3.30 p.m.
in the Arts Building (Room ) under
the sponsorship of the Inter-Varsity
group. The lecturer for the meetings of Jan. 30th and Feb. 6th will
be the Rev. W. R. Seeley.

Do not feel that you need a
special invitation. Everyone is welcome and the addresses are worthwhile.

GAZETTE DEADLINES

The editors ask the co-operation
of those who write for the Gazette,
in getting material in to the editors
and sub-editors on time each week.
Following is a list-of deadlines:
Tuesday noon:

All material for literary and
feature pages.
Wednesday noon:
All sport and front page news
(except in the case of events
taking place on Thursday),
Thursday afternoon:
All advertising material.

MILLION AIRES
MEET ;

The Commerce Society met on
Thursday at noon in Room 8. A
favourable financial report of their
society dance was read and a date
set for the banquet.

The Nova Scotian Hotel will be
the scene of their banquet on Saturday, Feb. 8th. Guests will include:
Prof. Bates, Murray Rankine, Major
Hogan, Prof. Harvey Crowell, Prof.
Maxwell. The committee in charge
of the festival is made up of: Cy
Kempston, Dewar MacLeod, John
Serymgeour.

Dot Graham was chosen as a committee of one to supervise the Year
Book photographs of graduating
sigecapeas of the Commerce Society.

:

 

ssi hueclanente for Degrees and Diplomas will begin
| previous rae delay and expense has been occasioned by
ons madé to names on certificates. Students

names altered in any way from those on the uni
 
 
  
    

“%:

Y
r sere
Ene: on

2 le : j

‘

‘ify Office of the

Registrar immediately.
are made will be mamas to an addi
————
N.C > ee ee -- -- -'*--O0OW$OO89@ ss

Sissies Ed
mee
55

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 24, 1941

3
4

BAIN MUNRO
Unanimously elected Life President
of the graduating class. Throughout
his college career Bain has taken a
keen interest in campus activity,
especially in the field of sport. He
was president of the Intermediate
City Hockey League last year, was
a candidate for the presidency of
D. A. A.C., and played on the Dalhousie senior hockey team. Bain is
also an active member of the executive of the Arts and Science
Society.

 

t

LIFE OFFICERS OF CLASS ‘41
MUNRO HEADS NEW SLATE

Goodman, MacQuarrie and Johnson Elected.

 

Life officers of Class ‘41 were
elected last Tuesday at the first
business meeting of the new year.
Bain Munro was elected life president by acclamation. Bain has been
president of the graduating class
since the beginning of the college
year and has proved himself worthy
of the confidence evinced by his
classmates in unanimously appointing him to the position of Life
President of Class °41.

Other life officers are Rose Goodman, vice-president; Ruth MacQuarrie, secretary, and Frank Johnson,
treasurer. All ~were elected by acclamation.

Other business included the hearing of a report of a committee, appointed at the last meeting, to make
preliminary investigations regarding plans of Convocation Week.
Recommendations of this committee
were that advertising should begin
early, and that committees should
be appointed in the near future to
be responsible for special events
during convocation week. A general
committee was appointed, consisting
of Connie Spinner, Ruth Graham,
Frank Johnson and Dewar MacLeod.

Special events committees will be
formed at the next class meeting to

work in conjunction with these four

people.
The matter of pictures for the

 

-Safe After Gruelling Ordeal!

A Letter to the Editors (Written On a Windy Bank)

 

Dear Miss Ha-can and Miss Benzine:

It was touching indeed and not a
trifle gratifying to observe the sadness and alasity with which the entire student body was afflicted upon receipt of word of my sad decease in the harbour. As Prof. Binnit learned us to rapturously quote
in English Too:

“He must not float upon his wat
ery bier

Unwept, and welter to the parch
ing wind,

Without the meed of some melo
dious tear.”

But, touching no longer on such

sad matters, I am not dead, merely
sleeping — most of the classes I
take. I do not deny that Rufus and
I were deposited alarmingly in the
harbour, even that a gull flapped
lazily over the water, and the raucous laughter of the arch-fiend
Hokum crackled. faintly in the
distance, and all was still. But
when Mr, Windebag insinuated that
schools of dying fishes arose where
we lay, he does me an injustice. As
a matter of fact, I don’t smell that
bad.
' Sammy; Skunk and a few such
fastidious souls may object sometimes, but me and Major Hokum
and Hank Wierd-one chummed
around like you know what — that
was all before the incident of the
dousing and the dead fish, and all
that. As for the fish, that was
Rayne, of course.

Needless to say, I was in desperation. To die is bad enough, but to
die unwept, unhonoured- and unsung, to be lost evermore ,in the
main makes one feel, to say the
least, out of the swim. I thought of
my old friend, Lester de Pester, but
I know that Rayne was all wet to
him, anyway. I thought of President Coarse-one, but he’s the head
of the Filthy Fifteen, and you know
them. Then at last I bethought me

Y

 

 

Senn Se

WILBUR P. FIZZLESQUE

 

 

Using a method of communication which I learned in the gym in
December—about examination time
—I informed Mr. Windebag of my
sad plight. He then took it upon
himself to bring it up before the
Filthy Fifteen, along with various
other matters. When thev hesrd all
these they were so distressed that
they uttered a deep and cx ernous
WAIL. Unknown, of corse. to Mr.
Windebag, the WAIL, guided by his
uncanny sense of smell, i nr cdiately departed from the Filthy Fifteen
and entered the harbour, \here we
were sending forth to jvuide it
sweet perfumes:

“As killing as the canl2r to the
rose,

Or taint-worm to the weanling
herds that graze,

When first the white-thorn blows.”

At last the WAIL found us, standing upward and crying, “I won’t lie
down; my clothes will get dirty.”
In practically no time at all the
WATT, had swallowed us, Rayne
and all. It apparently meant. to
digest us, but it complained of gas

of J. Windebag, and he isn’t a bad/and said we must go. I seid that

sort, though sometimes a little harsh
‘when he holds a mirror up to my
nature, ;

 

the gas came from the Gas-jet I
had in my pocket, but that his cav
(Continued on page 2)

|\DAL DEBATERS
TO U.N. B. CHOSEN

Ted King and.Delmar Amiro were
chosen at the Debate Trials on
| Thursday to represent Dalhousie at
the University of New Brunswick
in February.

The candidates took the affirmative of the resolution: “War Makes
the Man”. Besides the two chosen,
Allan Sparkes and Colin Smith
showed up well.
and Bennett judged the speakers.

ACCEPTS POSITION

 

prominent on the Studley campus, |
has left college in favor of a posi- |
tion with the Commercial
Company. He is Bob Swansburg.

Bob was taking his junior year |
in Science until Christmas, at which |
time he saw a favorable opening as
adjustor with the Halifax branch of
the above mentioned company.

He had been representative of
the Arts and Science Society on. the
Students’ Council for the past two
years, and president of the Class of
42 from 1939-40.

We shall not lose sight of Bob
entirely, as he will still be attached

Professors Richter

No.

 

12

Place of Press
Pondered

The most successful and effective
meeting in two years was enjoyed

‘by members of the Effective Speak
ing Club in the Arts Building on
Tuesday evening.

Only one topic was discussed and
that concerned the newspapers as a
source of rendering public énlightenment. The speakers, in order of
their deliveries, were: Colin Smith,
Ed. Morris, Reg. MacLean, Allan
Sparkes (pres.) I. Stevens, Mr. Hannon, Forbes Mountain, a freshman
beginner.

Mr. Morris introduced the Oxford

imethod of debate and proceded to

A well-known Dalhousie student | | denounce

and uphold newspaper
Iperiodicals as being a source 'of
| public enlightenment. He carefully

Credit drew likenesses of the frog to the

| bird and pointed out the main dif
;

\ference that the former species has
2:0 wings.

Reg. MacLean, a newcomer to the
Club, gave a brief but accurate’ account of why we are not enlighten- ©
ed dy periodicals: says he: “same
old stuff’, “always an axe to grind”,
“they produce a Fook of confidence
among the many”.

Mr. Stevens and Mr. Hanrion >
spoke well against ethe malicious
system of news reporting. The’ latter intimated that periodicals And ~

9 EE

 

 

 

to the C.0. T.C. as sergeant im-| oe of the news write-ups “be
structor. liquidated,
Everyone joins in wishing ae Freddie the freshman, name not
happiness and prosperity in his new | specifically known, ‘did excellently
undertaking. for a beginner. He noted that’
| mental laziness is caused by neéews
Year Book was brought up, and all | Papers trying to do our thinking for
those who had not already had their \us.. He sees a vicious tendancy ‘to
ward entirely personal, rather than
|@ cross-section opinion on certain
| topics. “Ready made opinions dis
| courage one from forming original

opinions,” the freshman said.
ATTENDED CHURCH THIS YEAR?

Six
Distracted mothers may henceforth with safety send their children
to lily-white Dalhousie University, knowing that “Dipo” has uncovered
the fact that 65% of students interviewed have been to church already
this year (1941). Reasons for going or not going were not asked, but a

 

graduation pictures taken were advised to do so immediately.

Rose Goodman and “Sonny” MacLellan were chosen as class histor
jan and class prophet, respectively. |
Continued on Page

 

? DIPO

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

 

    

 

 

| couple of students hinted darkly at a C.O.T.C. parade or something of

that nature.

Incidentally, Studley boasts the greatest attendance, 78%

| to 60% at Forrest.

Ds

HOW LONG WILL THE WAR LAST?

Sixty-two per cent of those i were of the opinion that the war
will be over within three years, 32% thinking it will take longer than
that to finish it, and another 6% maintaining an angelic reticence. Of
the optimists, 18% think it will take the full three years; 25% think it
will be over in two, another 18% give the conflict another full year to
run, and a bold 4% think it will be finished in less than that.

One expert opinion, gleaned from the Institute of Public Affairs,
opines that it will be over either in six months or in three years. Mark
those words. Studley is in this notably the more pessimistic campus,
with 41% estimating a war longer than three years contrasted with only
24% at Deadwoods.

* Om *

” *K

OUTSTANDING FIGURE OF 1940?

Asked to name whom they thought was the outstanding man or
woman of 1940, Dalhousie students gave Winston Churchill a decisive
lead over all others. 69%—a clear majority —voted for the dynamic
English Premier. Nearest rivals were the newly-re-elected American
President, Franklin D. Roosevelt, with 10%; blitzmaster Adolf Hitler,
named as the “outstanding but not the best” man of 1940 by 8%, and,
trailing behind the leaders, Dr. H. L. Stewart, internationally known
philosopher and commentator, and genial Major Hogan with 8% each.

The numerous also-rans included Charlie Chaplin, Charlie Murray,
Leopold, King of the Belgians, and Haile Selassie—the last because “he
is, after all, the Conquering Lion of Judah”. One Med student opined
that Hedy Lamarr was undoubtedly the most notable figure of 1941.

* % *

Students who read this feature with some interest, if such there be,
can help to make it more entertaining if they will please try to think up
some fresh and original questionsito ask. Each week there is such a
racking of brains that it seems impossible that any questions will be left
for the next. So far we have been able to carry on, but some of the
questions have been rather feeble. If you have any ideas, please send
them to the Editors or buttonhole one of the inquisitors.

*% x

x6
of the @llege hy the Sea

ag d in any column of THE E GAZETTE are those of the author; it cannot
they represent the ae of the Student Body.
, Limited, 54 Argyle street, Halifax, N. S.

B-9746
B-3148
B-9586
B-2753
B-9746
B-4421
B-9746
B-3674
B-5635
B-5724
B-9746
B-2717
B-9746
B-9746
B-1049
B-9746

aoe A
t enatee JOHN GRANT 
rary Editor: RETA HARRISON

3 Staff: JOAN BLACKWOOD

B= $0 DS Ws eg ee
>

eee OR Oke ee AS ee key oe

EP ee gO. Bee As ote! Te ee
t A See 3 Ne 2g ee ee a
Bo on a he aoe 3 a Ile ee
¢ @ OW soot - Oe 25) Ses Ae
5S 20. Fen ay eS Ble BD 8S tie ee

; eres: INEZ SMITH
mt Business Manager: MARY JOHNSON

_ ea. THE LIGHT THAT FAILED

ae : “Wednesday, January 15, 1941, will always be a momentous
ney in the history of the Canadian people. On that day, three
_ provincial premiers refused. even to discuss recommendations
dealing with fundamental Canadian problems, The three provin premiers were Pattullo of British Columbia, Aberhart

ap Alberta, and Hepburn of Ontario. The recommendations
_ were those of the Rowell-Sirois Commission. The Prime Minister, who was returned only last year by the electorate of this
- eountry, had already said:

“It is our considered view that the adoption of the Com--mission’s recommendations is necessary to put our country
in a position to pursue a policy which will achieve the maximum war effort, and at the same time to lay a sound foundation for post-war reconstruction.”

To an outsider it might seem that these three premiers |
would naturally have extremely sound reasons for such aj
serious step, especially after Mackenzie King’s statement. But}
a they did have good reasons, they are not apparent in their}

hes. The most prominent arguments were, firstly, that}
one ought not to waste time in discussion while the war was}
being waged. As Hepburn put it, “it is unthinkable that we
should be fiddling while Rome is burning”. Secondly, that any
discussion would endanger national unity. To quote Hepburn
again: “I did a public service in calling attention to the act of
throwing into the arena of discussion a highly contentious
document at a time when people who love the Empire and all
it stands for are concerned with one thing—and one thing
only—the successful prosecution of a vicious war in which
our national security is at stake.”

Just why they think that a discussion of the Sirois Report
would et the war effort and Canadian unity is not clear.

- Against their fears we must chalk up the following facts:

1. The statements of the Dominion Ministers, who are
all in touch with the war situation and who stated most
eoely that they felt that a conference was needed at this

ns Quebec, who is most concerned over religious and
racial problems, was willing to participate. Godbout, Premier

of Quebec, said:

“Tf Canadian unity were to be threatened by the continuation of this Conference, I would demand that this
_ Meeting be not held. I believe that discussion can be con~ ducted here between good Canadians who are looking only
to the greatness of their country.”

Is it fair to suggest that these three men were not thinking of their country? Again, two points stand out clearly:

1. British Columbia, Alberta and Ontario were the
three provinces who under the Commissioners’ scheme

” were not to receive National Adjustment Grants.
ae Mi is obvious from their speeches, that though they
were not in favor of the Report in wartime, neither were
they in favor of it in peace-time. War can sometimes be
used as an excuse to shelve obnoxious recommendations.

Perhaps it would be well to look further than their meritorious concern for national unity. Listen to Premier Pattullo:
“It may be accepted as axiomatic that there are five economic
and social units comprising the Confederation of the Dominion of

» Canada. . . . Each of these units is distinctive and there is nothing

~ to be gained and much to be lost in attempting to bring them to a

_ €ommon level. .. . It would be a backward instead of a forward step.

“British Columbia, in common with the other. provinces and the
Dominion, has had its problem and has attained its present position
only after an arduous struggle up the hill of public economy. It does
not want to be pushed down either to the bottom or half way, there
to turn the treadmill of mediocrity in perpetuity

In other words, perhaps Mr. Pat ttullo a not believe in
the fundamental tenet of Democracy, .that every citizen of a
country should have an equal right to an education, to good
health, and to happiness.

. We may dismiss Mr, Aberhart with a short shrift. He
said, “they would sabotage the national constitution and endanger essential unity during the war effort to preserve a
vicious, out-worn, and inadequate financial system.”

* Many people have never considered Mr. Aberhart’s views
on financial matters particularly sound. There seems to be no
reason to suppose that they are any sounder than before the
war started.

Finally, we come to Mr. Hepburn, that strong leader of
the tolerant Ontario people. He made a long speech, a partial
text covering four newspaper columns. His. criticisms of the
Report are not worth mentioning, since he would not stay to

them with the other delegates. His whole attitude
might be summed up by the following quotation: “To lay

, ” rs hands on the life-work of Sir Wilfrid Laurier and Sir John A.

_ Macdonald is nothing short of national vandalism.” Perhaps
if he had been living a hundred years earlier, he would have
thought it “national vandalism” on the part of Wilberforce to
get an a passed through the British House of Commons abolishing slavery..
Having studied the fiasco at Ottawa, the following quotation from that great liberal, J. S. Mill, comes to mind:
= “Tt is not much to be wondered. at if impatient or disappointed reformers, groaning under the impediments opto the most salutary public improvements by the
- the indifferent, the intractableness, the pervers
stinacy of a people, and the corrupt combinations of selfish
___ private interests armed with the powerful weapons afforded
rE ey Ps institutions, should at times sigh for a strong hand
down on all these obstacles and oo a recalcitrant
e to be eet governed.”

= 1X Caettec

FO RTY- FIVE

The fall of 1895 brought to Dalhousie what was at that time considered a large class of about forty
students in the regular Arts course.
The men came in considerable numbers from the eastern part of the
province; big fellows ready to play
football, McAskill, Gardiner, Miss
Intosh, and other highlanders from
Cape Breton; MacLeod, Forbes,
MacKenzie, and Cumming, their
kinsmen, from Pictou. As _ usual,
some classical scholars from Prince
Edward Island, and an unusual
number of young ladies.- One of
the latter was to become famous
above all her contemporaries as the
author of “Anne of Green Gables”.

The first literary effort of the
class did not attain a very wide circulation and it is safe to say that
the author is unknown. Internal
evidence would lead a careful critic
to attribute it to some Halifax student rather than to the more spiritually-minded classmen of Pictou,
Cape Breton or P. E. Island. I can
only relate the circumstances and
say that at any rate I was not the
author.

The new class held an organiza‘tion meeting, appointed a president,
‘vice-president and secretary, and
decided to write a class song. It
seems to have been written with an
effort that is characteristic of a
good workman and it was forthwith ordered to be printed and distributed among the members of the
class, Dal 1899. It consisted of two
verses and choruses as follows:

The Class of ’99

O we’re the Class of ’99,

A gay and jolly good crowd,

And you may be sure with all our
hearts

We'll sing our praises loud.

Will be afraid of no one,

But always to the fore,

And let this be our watchword:
Dalhousie evermore!

| Chorus:

Oh old Dalhousie,

Dalhousie tra la la.

Cheer for old Dalhousie,

Tra la la la la!

Oh we’re the Class of ’99,

With energy firm and strong.

And if you come and join us

We’ll carry you straight along.

“Bae

Next century’s blest in having
For heralds such as we,

For though the last we are the first, |

So you'll be sure to see.

We'll be the first in football |
And rackets, too, we’ll say,

And will always be on top, boys,
Whatever there be to pay.

Chorus:

Our class is large in numbers,

We trust as great in worth,

And though we’ll be good pluggers,

We’ll have our share of mirth

We'll cheer for old Dalhousie

And for our colours too

And promise to the Yellow and
Black

To be forever true.

Unfortunately one of the sophomore class was a frequenter of the
print shop where this delightful
effort was set for printing, and
he managed, by stealing the proof
sheets to have some fifty copies
printed elsewhere, and at the same
time he had fifty copies of what he
called a “Revised Edition” run off,

Revised Edition of
The Class of ’99

Oh we’re the goats of '99

A green and ghostly crowd

You may be sure our chicken
hearts may easily be cowed

We'll be afraid of no one

Except the Sophomores

And let this be our watchword

We’re freshmen evermore.

Chorus:

Oh the green Freshmen ¥
Freshmen tra la la ete.
Pap for the Freshmen
Mamma, ma, ma ete.

Oh we’re the goats of ’99
You’d smell us far and long
And if you come and join us
Bring smelling salts along.

YEARS AGO

Next century’s plagued in having
Such jackanapes as we
For though the last we are the first
In cheek and verdancy.
We'll be the first to cry and bawl
In scrims we'll run away
We'll always cringe and crawl boys
For mercy humbly pray.
Chorus:
Our class is large in numbers
Of brains there is a dearth
Although we are big lubbers,
Each one must have a nurth
(Freshman lisp)
We’re crying for Castoria
And for our nurses, too,
And since we’ve sont our proof
sheets
We don’t know what to do.

The revised edition was no literary gem, but the results were up
to all expectations. Copies of each
edition were distributed by two
seniors to the Freshman class as
they came out of first mathematics
and there was an immediate free
fight. Even the presence of professors was not enough to quell the
disturbance. Shortly afterwards it
was announced that Howard Murray
had been appointed Dean and his
special function was to deal with
disturbances.

A Poet in the Crisis

They’ll say to you that each must
take his stand

About the social forces in the world,

That Art must wait until the fight
is over

And economic freedom’s lost or won.

And yet I say, as with the prophet old,

“Unto athe hills do I lift up mine
eyes.”

Unto the hills!
maples gleam,

All red and gold, in the autumn
sun.

And am I wrong? Is this not God?

Must then I wait for beauty until

man has bread?

That would deny my very

faith,

For when this beauty, ee a painted
shaft,

Has struck man’s soul root-deep—

Then he’ll arise, fling off his pitchblack coat

Of slough and greed.

"Tis not for food and drink alone
we fight,

But for the freedom of the human
soul,

And.in this struggle Art must be
the sword,

For are not truth and beauty one?

While all men have but little, ugly
souls,

And cannot hear the music in
pines,

And will not listen to the sound of
surf

Upon the rocky coast, you'll come
to nought.

On beauty for its life the soul depends

And you must recognize that this
is so.

The hills where

No!

the

SAVED AFTER —

Continued from page one

ernous deep inside was turning a
reddish-green. So he b——d, and
here I am on a windy bank.

Gee, am I glad to get back to
English Too, and Major Hokum’s
Three-ring Follies. Even if J. Windebag does hold me up to scorn and
ridicule, I shall never forget the
WAIL that b——d. But Rufus says
that if there’s a guy around by the
name of Col. J. Egglespie Oatcake
he doesn’t want to see him, that he
hates him and will evaporate if he
sees him—no matter what Hokum
says.

Thank you for the valuable space
in your Gazoot, which I read every
Friday evening, which is when. it
comes out,

WILBUR P. FIZZLESQUE.

SS ST

PHYSICS DEPARTMENT
An imaginary line is the waist,
Which seldom stays where it is

plaist,
But ambles and skips
’Twixt the shoulders and hips
According to whimsical taist,
—Western Gazette.

“You know, madam, ‘a stitch in time’. « .”

‘| know—gives me time for a Sweet Cap.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

The National Fish Company, Limited
FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

WALLACE SHOES

Now is the time

For Ski Boots
and SKATING OUTFITS

for Men and Women
Wide Range of Styles

Priced from $3.95 to $11
Wallace Bros.
Limited
415 BARRINGTON ST.

Farmers 6 Milk is

RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME
YOU'LL LIKE IT.

SS

FARMERS’ LIMITED
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

Balhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia
Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

| Degrees: B.A., B.Se.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.

Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
odern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses, of ae standing, leading te degrees of
»» M.Se.
Courses preparatory to ProfeSsional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women :
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
 

 
    
    

 

ne a
cgamrewer dee PART IOS een

 
  

¥ Sas ern er ees
se SRSA SNS Soe lees

  

 

Uh H’mm, Nylon:
(made of water, coal, and air in the Messrs. DuPont’s magic test tube)
HERE THEY ARE..NYLON STOCKINGS! | .
Wo0d’
| | At W660 §
On the First Floor . . . $1.65 a pair (Equal to Three Thread)
in five shades . . . Witchery, Thrilling, Holiday, Tropicana, and Tropic Nude.

Sizes 814 to 10%. i a
The Wood Brothers Company Limited, Halifax, N. S. ait

~

 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 

In whispering taffeta, velvet, sheer,
In net or rustling satin,

The Tech Ball finds her more at ease
_ Than does a class in Latin.

Ah, she’ll not deeorate the walls,
Nor “sit them out” in dozens,
She’s learned that to be really chic
Her dress must go to Cousins.

SN . 7 a >
Every thread of your evening wear
d will sparkle after it has had the lua
— —— d ury of a gentle, refreshing Sanitone
—  € beauty treatment,

LIMITED

me ay A
a 7 t°3 bee oy P
oie iin
D ‘I ‘ *
fi ;
on > ;
] we s
a é
|e he .
ey ey ye
lf | L

Carefully tailored and fitted . ...

   
  

ness viewpoint.

| We Sell Good Clothes — Reasonably Priced

 
   

BASIL WINTERS

t

 

 
 

. “a .
- ~ ee, on ” —_—- ~
Jit ms : ae , “- —_—- / itn
7 " = . =s ys mee at . a
; . > a a SS a fi cL x
Rrra ieee ; =e - - er : ee Oe  —
é . satel ae , pe eh eee re a - eth poe halen
_ aioe : oe
‘ ae x eae: . aaa
- ae ey oe ae a —- Fr er Ps ? =
i - ‘ f :
a, : .
é fl : ; i ¥

ee ese

eealaa =

  

a a ee
aoe ip by a — =
ee
ig
a

    
 

Afternoon Dresses

 

“ef se SEITE
- —-— _ _ —
r eT - ™ vor "7 2 ee al
va ey * im | oe me
: f foe “a h 2 a } a a Mab uan Y j
i.e ae Messy A rt a yp eee te
‘ 5 n oP ee 8
- iW a fe ‘ “4

 

pS The Exclusive Style Centre 
 
 

ie | he = 481-483 Barrington St. Halifax 4:4
eae B-6563 .

 

 

TIME: January 31st, 9:00 P. M.

 

OUSINS

 
 
  

definite asset from both a social and busi
 

Halifax

   
  

| Evening Gowns - Sportswear

 

   

“fs g | Always something different at reasonable prices,

     
 

  
 
 
   
 

Ra gE Pw

 

The Blossom Shop
FLORISTS
232 QUINPOOL ROAD
CORSAGES A SPECIALTY
Telephone B-9557 Halifax, N. 8.

 
 

  
   

PLACE: Nova Scotian Hotel
MUSIC: Don Low and his band
PRICE: $5.50 per couple

          

   
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
   

ety

Three Essentials! | oe

 

 

 

town to eat... .

* A Corsage

OHNES

We invite you to inspect our

new and varied assortment of

EVENING WRAPS
TECH BALL @ @

GIRLS... you will want to look your
loveliest at the Tech Ball, won’t you? Some- at

thing new — different. Call for your appointment now—don’t be disappointed:

Remember, 20% Off for
the Dal-King’s Co-Eds.
Emile
Hairdressing
Oxford Theatre Bldg.

furrier?

 

* HALIFAX

Marquis, Manager \ |
Anne MacLean, Prop. ;

 

 

A BEAUTIFUL CORSAGE TO } | For The Ball .. .
DELIGHT YOUR GIRL ,

SoS

See YOUR
e HAIR-DO?

  
 
 

Our flowers: are. freshly. cut. and: our
corsages are daintily made up: to. de
light the heart of any girl.

4
Tobe sure you'll look your best

| nariete and smartest, have a Coiffure

The Rosedale Nurseries 24k SPRING GARDEN RE
by one of our experts.

31 SPRING GARDEN RD.—B6440. Y.M.C.A. BLDG.—B-7530 -.

 

 

Get Your Corsage _ |

for the Tech Ball
CALL

PENDER’S
L3717

Taxi and Bus Service
609 Robie Street and at the Nova Scotian Hotel PROMPT DELIVERY

  

CHAS. A. PENDER, LIMITED B-7134
  
       
   

i Pal a ss : ®
7 Pet Var ulcell
: iy o Las ’

  

Today we introduce another out
standing personality on the Campus
and one who well deserves his place

in “The Hall of Fame”. No doubt
you all recognize Freddie and
heartily agree that our choice is a

Freddie Barton came to Dal from
St. Mary’s with two years in Arts
and entered Medical School. Ever
since his Freshman days Fred has

taken an active part in extra-curri cula activities.

In his Sophomore year he was
President of the class and for two
years represented Class ’88 on the
council. The next year he was
Member-At-Large on the Council
and no one will ever forget how well
he served us a President of the
Student Body last year. With four

years experience on Council, it is|seen a corpse this morning.” heavy lifting which is done here quiet. As term. Then there’s the appealing little ,
not difficult to understand why “You mean saw, Joannie’ dear,” | and there, some of it, unfortunately, ae ae era brunette who greatly embarrassed
Freddie created a new interest in| corrected the Doctor. with the toe of a figurative boot. Chris Cameron has invented a! J) have girls come to see you

council affairs and did more to in
' :
hae i
m2, Fs a o
Oe ek, ae
ta. t " Seer) eee
y F ey

 

 

 

LUNATIC

LOBBY...

 

 

“The Kurious Kase of the
Khaki-klad Korpse”

Dr. Atwood of Atwood Alley was
probing in the murky depths of an
intermediate mixture (heads it’s
dustbane, tails it’s coffee—in any
case it’s awful) on the morning following the Doilymakers’ Ball, and
whistling “I love my wife, but oh
you kid”, when he perceived by the
exquisitely sculptured calves which
were propelling their owner unsteadily down the steps that his favorite customer was entering and in
need of a morsel
caffein.

“What ho, Joan my pipkin,” said
the Doctor, polishing his pince-nez
with a characteristic gesture, and
calling Gloomytrees by her first
name, “just you rest easy for a moment on Mandy Lee’s arm while
your Uncle Roy exchanges your hiccup for a pick-up with a jugful of
his Jump-an’-Jive Java and you'll
feel like a new man.”

“Silence, dolt!” roared the offended Gloomytrees, striking the coffeevendor speechless with a lightning
flash of her most nearly opened eye,
“T have felt like a new man for
some time, but that has nothing to
do with my present business. My
neurasthenia has nothing to do with
men, or hiccups, or the Doilymakers’
Ball.

“Send for J. Song Woodbelly.
Hurry, I tell you , Roy, old man, I

of concentrated

J. Song Woodbelly, who never

could resist a waltz, led his little

the back door of the ghouls’ hangout where all was exactly as described by the palpitating Gloomytrees.

Said Main Bunrow upon a curSory inspection, “the only thing
that large I have seen in a uniform
hereabouts is Lieut, Pekid, but it’s
too early in the morning for Pekid
to be up, so that’s out.”

Just at that moment the dulcet
tones of “Waltz me,” etc., sounded
close behind the three inquisitors.
Turning quickly, they saw nothing;
turning back quickly, they also saw
nothing, for the corpse was (you
guessed it) gone.

By way of climax the green mist
thickened, blanking out the flickering blue and violet flames and enveloping the four defectives, while
mocking
the room.

aaaaaaaa”.
, %* * a

 

 

laughter echoed through
“Ya-ha-ha, yah-hah-ha
Don’t miss this column next
week. In any case, don’t miss
next week,

Obiter Scripta

“In Spain, someone says, the rain
is plain mainly because it falls”;
in fact, many things are plain because they fall, not excluding faces
— all of which account for much

fo mer | ‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
eI OnINO LIN U

| SAY “99”

“The full import of the Christmas tragedies has dawned on the
medicos at last and many vows
have been made as to better
things in the new year. The selfappointed hermits have crawled
into their caves and those who
hadn’t planned to make a distinction and did so by accident are
celebrating to be sure it won’t
happen again. In general this is
a sad thing for a poor columnist,
because few people make distinctions by accident and thus few
are liberated to the social world
to create “dirt”.

* * *

We are also not quite sure that

we shall be able to please the new

editors, never having worked for a

powder-puff Gazette before.

At
least we have no good reputation

to uphold, since we never thrilled

the

was a screwy column,

recently,

girls’ predecessors. But the
crowning slam was delivered when
“Say 99” failed to appear last week
and one of our good friends from
Newfoundland told us, “it always
anyway!”
We agree.
x

Phi Chi had a fine large initiation
but fewer rumors than
usual got about. Apart from very
subtle remarks from Dr. Smith to
Bing in class, a report of a very in
structive speech from the former, a

wee sma’ hours, and the Bug-class | qashing,

fresh outburst in the Campaign for | dreadful

3 : 7 ——— | ers.
eee ie ee eee

Py a ear

 

H annibal’s animal tank corps, climbing their Alpine track,
Kept the troops contented with fragrant Picobac.

@ This would explain how the great Carthaginian was
able to keep his troops happy so long away from home.
For the pick of Canada’s Burley crop is always a mild,

cool, sweet smoke. Today

it is Canada’s most popular

pipe tobacco. And delight in its fragrance and flavour
is enhanced by its extremely moderate price.

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH «- 15¢

1/-LB,

“LOK-TOP" TIN » 65¢

also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

 

ane eee

 

Delicious daughters of devoted if
doddering daddies are doomed to
disappointment, for the

Purity, a wild-eyed interne in the|jaq delivers definite dope that he,

delirious, droopy Charles

girls learning to blush, all WAS) olorte in leading a quiet life this

new game.

Grab a Med stude and

Sie

popular—like Angus Shea. Pipe
the haircut and shave. Shea’s story
is to the effect that she’s gone
home, but don’t believe it; he’s just
protecting himself—and her.

* a *

MacQuarrie by caroling, “Oh Bill,

   
       

(

“I said saw,” said Gloomy, in- from far-off Montreal, you must be
dignantly, it’s these damn proofreaders, that’s what it is.” And
with that the mysterious damsel

fainted delicately on the floor,

I want to see you!”

    
 
 

It seems, however, that Dalhousie
produces something which is not
very plain, in fact, rather uncom;monly distinguished in the way of
|a trainee who refuses to fall to the

terest the students in college and its
activities than any prexy before him.
Thanks to Freddie who steered us
4 through those hectic C.S.A. days !!

have him show how far his car will
skid, preferably in traffic. Boy pals
wilt under the strain of trying to
keep up with her.

 

Episode II
A Mystery Monstrosity Entitled: |) 14 of stealths sleuthily around to

OXFORD

In the field of sport, Barton has
done his bit by managing the Tennis Club one year in a very capable
manner and also playing inter
 

causing Mandy Lee added difficulty in her sweeping-up operations and greatly impeding J.
Song Woodbelly, the Chinese de
“lying prone position” upon the
orders of three stripers, or anyone
else.

 

co ie SS

To Mike Smith’s sly remark, “No

‘wonder she took a bath, she was

»”

out with you just before,” a certain

 

CAPITOL

THEATRE - HALIFAX

 

Friday and Saturday

Janette MacDonald - Nelson Eddy
“NEW MOON” and

 

 

 

 

 

f faculty hockey. Proudly does he| tective, who had already arrived ta ipehd ee fice i Se oe et tier Med set sr
Ps, wear his hockey award which he| 9) the scene, accompanied by Ed- | state that the f Pa athens replied. “You caught me with my Friday - Saturday - Monday Monday and Tuesday
At won playing for Medicine. The| wound Remorse; Main Bunrow and oe at Ee BOOr OF (ne Manousie) (censored) down!” That, like the “The Ramparts We Watch”
ys Munro Day Committe and Track gymnasium gets very dirty at times; |pyuro trip, is going to take some 3 99 “Always a Bride”
, . : Sammy Skunk, who was already |in fact, so dirty that one possessed +s eT P All
and Field Day committee have both| j rrowin ; , ee , Pp explaining to an angel in Shirreff In an ey
, ; : g among Atwood’s Polar | of sober mind and judgement never Wednesday and Thursday
functioned well with Freddie as a! pies in search of a possible clue 2 eee BOVCr | Fall, 3 a
member. Bath * jthinks of lying on it in his ordinary | ee ALICE FAY Doctor Talkee s Wes
Talking about committees let us 1 LOVE A MONSTROSITY clothes, unless of course, someone! The bane of patient and long-sufnot forget that Freddie was on the nibs Bi oe uae = ee as [fering classmates are Dunsworth’s | BETTY GRABLE
Malcolm Honour Award Committee| Gloomytrees, having been revived perry Voice. vontinuing the story! puns. Mecca for all would-be hu- |
for three years. When the present|by the smelling salts which Sammy |°¢ Might say that this floor is the | morists was Shireff Hall’s Ordeal JACK, OARS | O R P H E. U S
constitution of the Students’ Coun-|deftly administered, after a few|Scene of much activity this year, by Water last Sunday night. Friday and Saturday
cil was drawn up Barton was a|preliminary “Where am I’s?” went | being the training ground for ‘the ~ £* OU || “Fugitive From Prison Camp”
member chosen to help in its re-|on to relate how, as she was pass- AEST traming Corps. 0 the Hennigar’s legacy was large, like- 2 JACK HOLT
construction, Then again we must|ing the Chem. Theatre, the soft|Course of the instruction received| wise the party it promoted, we are See wena eee and
commend him on his work so will-|notes of a flute had attracted her ee iM mt Cth learn eee ae told. “Wagon Train”
ingly done for Dalhousie’s Reunion.| attention to the Haunt of the | Position” is somewhat resembles a é< a4
ise “services rendered” are |Ghouls where blue and violet flames | 2 “pancake landing”, the only dif- Marg. may be quite irritated Mark of Zoro Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
Sect.-Treas. of the Newman Club,|were hopping to and fro among ference being that when one falls| yhoen she reads that Henry is not TYRONNE POWER “The Human Monster”
and contributions to the Year Book|the test tubes and a thin green|he hits the floor instead of a large| caving his pet term T.L.D. for BELA LUGOSI
and Gazette. Freddie even found | vapor was curtaining the bench up- flat field). ; her alone. LINDA DARNELL and
time to participate in two Glee Club|on which, on closer examination, Now some lads, being rather par- | —————————_—_____—____ “Glamour For Sale”
plays despite all his other activities. |she had seen a mountainous khaki-|ticular about their appearance, like | Shadrak for example, against whom
This year Freddie graduates and|clad body with a purple counten-|to dress themselves with considera-|not even a fiery furnace prevails for
hopes to do Post Graduate work|ance, its sunken eyes staring rigid-|ble care and neatness, especially |the simple reason that someone took
next year. Even though he departs,|ly at the .canopy of green smoke| when going to Church; lectures or|his part; thus the humble scribe | C A S I N O G A R R I C K
his brilliant and chequered career | above it, while distant flute notes|like awe-inspiring gatherings. Many | believes that if the Chum referred | ae Friday and Saturday
shall live forever in the annals of | softly sounded the strains of “Waltz|of these same lads find it exceed-|to supra gets heat put to him which | Coming Seturday “Moon Over Burma”
Dalhousie ! ! me around again, Willie”. ingly difficult to find time in which|approaches a reasonable facsimile|| One Night in The Tropics and “The Quarterback”
to eat their lunch and change their|to that which exudes from a fiery | Mond a Tuesda
clothes in the forty-five minutes|furnace, there is sure to be some-| BUD ABBOTT ‘ Sete ok as y
Le which transpire between a twelve. body. or a society or like lar nia: | LOU COSTELLO Argentine Nig ts” and ”
: a By Ys a, o Be Se | ALAN JONES Haunted Honeymoon
o’clock lecture and military training |thering of somebodies there to go | Sree
r ! he at twelve forty-five. The ape le bat for him. But then, as the) NANCY KELLY Wednesday and Thursday
result of all this is that the trainee | Spaniard says, “who knows”? or, Watch for “LITTLE MEN” “Knute Rockne
arrives for drill, admiring on his'with reservation for standing cor- | coming Wednesday. All American” x
‘- way to the gym the practical cloth-| rected, “quien sabe?” I Want A Divorce

Pig Sty

 

The Boilermakers’ Ball passes
quietly into the realm of forgotten things. “Tis said that Cy.
nearly lost it at the Ball, while
visiting friends at another table.

x * oh

The boys will have their “Saturday night”. Kinley and Co. were
putting their best feet forward out
side the Lord Nelson, but those
darn snowbanks would keep running
out in front of them.

Re), Kk

We see the inauguration of a new
Sanitary measure on the campus.
“Ducky” Harris with his box of
Kleenex provides us with a “blow
by blow” description of the current
*flu epidemic. Have one on “Ducky”.

+ 2

_ “Dooley” MacIntosh evidently be
____ Tieves. that travel broadens one.

 

These week-end trips to New Glasgow seems to be taking effect.

i, 2%

And, speaking of “Dooley”, we
understand that he’s been giving
lessons to Ben Wilson on how to
make love to Adelaide. In the play
—of course,

* * Bd
From the Law School also
comes the report of one Al.

“Moose” MacLeod, who, we understand, cannot bear to be away

from Sydney for longer than a

month. The tie that bindeth.

* * &

Ralph and Ruth were marooned in
the Reception Room by the flood at
the Hall on Sunday night, we understand. Water doesn’t seem to have
cooled the old ardor, though.

 

ing which ‘adorns the boys of the
C.0.T.C., in his classroom get-up,
and before Jack can say Robinson
he hears the order which tells him
that he must assume, with considerable alacrity, the “lying prone
position”. Thus our pal hits the

dust of the gym floor feeling more |

sore than somewhat (in spirit if not
in body). In fact one of such
chums feels so sore that he makes
up his mind never again to repeat
this odious procedure. Here again
we come to another result which a
mild man might call a hullabuloo,,
and people in high places begin to
think that this chum needs a bit of
leather put to him, in fact, they are
definitely convinced that things
should be made very hot for same
fellow.

However, history shows that when
a fellow has the fortitude to refuse
to fall down, and as a consequence
gets threatened with a bit of heat,
someone invariably helps him. Take

 

 
     
  

meh

. re ae
] ar —,
i {

‘= .%

=e ana rink for the opens seems to be
ing ahead. The only holdup in plans at the present is
tant question of where the water is going to come
flood the rink. Officials at Dalhousie are hoping that
7 en come through with the necessary essentials. We
heard that Major Hogan has promised to provide the laassary to keep the ice clear and if that means what we
‘it does the members of the C.O.T.C. are going to have
ditional exercise.
Whether the rink will be a success or not seems to be
using considerable debate. We have it from usually well
‘ormed quarters (the little red-headed equipment manager)
the idea of a rink will definitely be a flop. The only reason
this prediction seems to be that the rinks which Dalhousie
had in the past have been a failure. However this is hardly
nt reason for condemning the present plan.

“If at first you don’t vasa, hie try again.” Well that is
the hockey team has been trying to do for some time now

three years to be exact. The game Thursday night was no
xeeption when the powerful Tech aggregation dropped that
vers 3-0. There is one thing hockey fans at Dalhousie (if
here are any) can say and that is they have had a hockey team

 

a: _ which is both persistent and consistent. Lots of teams would
; ~ have folded up long ago but the Dal team seems to be in just
L for the sport. It would have done your hearts good to see the
“Way Web MacDonald played on the Dalhousie defence last week.
_ The way he tossed those Tech forwards around he looked like
be ne er foot devil with a hot fork stuck in his wishbone.
~The Dal basketball i ea sparkling form on Tues- day. night against a star studded Army aggregation. The
fe | Tiger's smooth working combination proved too good for the
I soldiers as Ben Wilson and Cal Seaman tallied on numerous
a shots under the basket. The boys showed that there is nothing
_ to it when it comes to taking penalty shots as they scored on
all but one of these tosses. If the boys continue their winning
+ -; Streak, and they look good from a spectators point of view.
- Burnie Ralston should receive a banquet for his fine coaching.
_ Burnie has produced some fine teams at Dalhousie in the past
\ tee years and this year’s team looks to be what he has been
striving to build—a winning team. Dalhousie Cubs, on the
- other hand having not yet reached their stride, seem to be a
little out of the running, but it’s not for want of trying.

x *+ +e

_ §$ports in other colleges do not seem to be so restricted as
by eaey are making plans for competition with other teams in
ther colleges and in neighboring towns. For instance, the
University of Manitoba is planning to hold a basketball league
with the University of Alberta for the women but refused it
| the men, in order to abide by the ruling. The Manitoban
‘comments that the Western Universities are doing as they
i lease with Intercollegiate activities.

_ Y.M.C. A. HOOPSTERS
\: ie EDGE OUT DAL CUBS This Week In

Cee Girls’ Sport

Of The Y.M.C.A. basketball team

[managed to eke out a 35-32 victory by M. MacKeigan

_ over Dalhousie Cubs last Saturday

evening in a scheduled game of the; The Folk dancing classes on Tues' ermediate ‘Basketball League/|days at 7,30 in the reception room
red at the Y Gym, The Y team|at Shirreff Hall are in full swing
aged to gain a slight lead early|now, and a grand time is had by
in the game which they held on to|/all. All upperclass women are hearuntil the final whistle. The game | tily invited.
_ produced some of the best action

_ Seen this season featuring both| The Dal girls have invited the Y.
_ smart passing plays and long ac-|} W.C.A. basketball team up for a
curate shooting. Les Bayne, former | game on Friday, Jan. 31, at 6 p.m.
_ Acadia senior star shared scoring |The “Y” team is known to be quite
~ honors with Nichol, each gathering| good, as they have some of the
_ ten points for the association squad.| best high school players of the past
_ Jack MacKenzie, starry Dal sharp-|few years.

+ ran a close second with a| The regular practice begins at
- total of 9 points chalked up beside |5.30 as usual. Any one who would
s name in the score books. like to play against the “Y”, just

a, turn out for the practice.
} = moe i meer Supper will be served to the Dal
Me tage. Fast combination plays and girls and their guests, the “Y”, aft oe long shots just missed the ter the games, in the Homestead.
. hoop by inches. Bayne and Nichol
_ however, managed to put their team| The Interclass schedule for basi - out in front and when the first half | pethall is being drawn up now and
bier the Cubs found themselves on | wi}! start next week with five teams
_ the short end of a 20-18 count. competing: Freshettes, Sophomores,
+ Bayne continued to lead his team |Juniors, Seniors, and Grads.
ps the second half with the Cubs A meeting of the D.G.A.C. execu/ following along closely in their | tive was held on Thursday, Jan. 28.
) ks Always within two or three Plans to have a D. G. A. C. night
I oir ints of overtaking their opponents | Sometime around Munro Day to in2 Dal quintet strove desperately | clude displays of dancing, badmin- the equalizer but their efforts | ton, ping pong and basketball were
ent unrewarded and. the final | drawn up. Laura MacKenzie, Marion
found them still three points | Gaynor and Marion Moore were apd the Association team. pointed to look after the costumes

we ae and Nichol were easily the |*°* ‘He dancing display.

best on the Y team with Jack Char
Jack MacKenzie and Norm NOTICE

atalile leading the attack for the | Interfaculty Hockey:

Friday, January 24th— —
Commerce ys. Medicine 7-8

PS re!

i
wis

 

 

re a
se F

eal

me
tial)

eee
re

 

 

trac

t Arena
_,Dathousie: MacKenzie 9, Diamond :
2, Lyall 2, Doig 8, Mac6 MeRitehie 8, Hutchins, An- NO SALE

om ek Beye 10, Nichol 10, | bar?”
Craver Sire Evans 9, Parker,

bs Detbtaon:4, Doubleday 2. —Manitoban.

“Do you serve women at this

 

 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
    
 
   
 
  
 
    
 
  
 
 
    
 
   
     
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
    
  
 
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
     
  
  
   

Iie ig ene ae chlp since les iia aMh eclosion cite ee a el

“Naw—you gotta bring your own.”

re ae
=? wy, Dee Y

 

* : ate i * ai “
i a) S06 og
. ie ae mn
ity a |e r
fal Aa #
Pe
*

DALHOUSIE ¢ GAZETTE

Tigers Win Over Army Hoopsters, 40-36

 

 

Smooth Working Combination

Stalls Army Cagemen -
Wilson

& MacLeod High Scorers for Da]

Dalhousie Tigers defeated the
Army quintet 40-36 in a closely contested fixture of the City Senior
Basketball League Tuesday evening
at the Dalhousie Gym. Goey Bauld
proved to be the only major opposition to the Dal forwards, compiling sixteen points for himself.

Wilson opened the scoring in the
first half with a lovely pivoting shot.
Smith and Seaman followed with a
pair of baskets to pile up the lead.
Johnny Martin covering the floor
with a great display of speed, stalled the Army attack several times.
One of the best plays of the night
was that combining Mike Smith,
Martin, Seaman resulting in another
Dalhousie score. Bauld and Piers
pepped up the Army offensive but
Wilson scored again. The Army,
unable to pierce the Dal defence,
tried many long shots which resulted in two baskets for Piers. As

 

 

DAL CUBS LOSE

. King’s Intermediates, paced by
Martin, defeated Dal Cubs last
Tuesday night in a hard-fought
game which saw the Cubs come
from behind at the start of the second half and take the lead, only to
lose it after King’s put on the
pressure.

King’s piled up an early lead in
the first half with Howard and
Martin leading the way. Anderson
saved the Cubs many times by robbing the Kings forwards of rebounds under the Dal basket then
Davey Doig, with his accurate onehand shot and Jack Charman whittled down the Kings lead so that at
half time, the score stood 19-13 in
favor of Kings.

In the second half Doig and
Charman continued their good work

the half ended the Dal attack was|@nd took the lead. However, Howfunctioning well and the score was|@rd and Forsythe brought Kings

23-14 in favor of the Dal boys.

The second half started with
Goudey and Bauld combining for a
nice basket. Piers continued the
scoring for the Army with two
baskets in a row. Dalhousie however, made no mistake on the foul

shot against the Army and main- |

tained their lead. The Army cut
down the lead with ten minutes to |
go to five points. Dalhousie then

put on the pressure with fast end to|

end rushes with Wilson and MacLeod scoring. The play became very
rough and many jumps were called.

| out in front again.

 

This was the
signal for a scoring spree by Kings
with Martin netting many baskets.
Dalhousie put on the pressure and
staved off the Kings .attack, but
they were unable to prevent Martin
and Howard from scoring.
Lineups:
Dalhousie:

Hutchins, Anderson,

Do oig, 11; Diamond, Charman, 14;

Lyall, Zatzman, Smith, Boyd.

Kings: Drillon, Van Horne, 2;
Stubbs, 2; Forsythe, 8; Howard, 13;
Martin, 14; LeMoine,

The Tigers continued ta click and|Why Don’t More Students

despite baskets by Bauld finished
out in front.

Lineups:

Dalhousie: Wilson 11, Mackenzie
5, Seaman 7, Martin, MacRitchie 4,
MacLeod 8, MacKimmie 2, Smith 3.

Army: Goudey 4, Crease 3, Bauld| students who like to participate in | |
16, Piers 8, Carson; Mitchell -2, Mac- |

Kenzie 2, Hart 1.

Engineers Trim Dentistry
In Hockey Game, 5-0

 

The interfaculty hockey league |

got away to a good start last Fri
through a hard-working but weak |
team from Dentistry.

ability and had no difficulty in overcoming their opponents, who were
handicapped by having only seven
men in uniform.

The boys from Dentistry held
their own in the first period pe
lacked scoring power. The Engineers, however, were quick to capi- |
talize on their scoring peste
Engineers showed that they will be
a hard team to beat.

Condon and Marshall were outstanding for Dentistry. Marshall, |
who used to play for Dal Tigers,
occasionally flashed some of his old
time form, but for the most part
was content to take his time.

Vail, MacKenzie, Horne and
Sandoz led the Engineers’ attack.
Vail pulled the old hat-trick by netting the puck three times. Mitchell,
playing his first game between the
pipes earned a well-deserved shutout.

First Period
1. Vail.
Second Period”
2. Vail.
3. Murray.
Third Period
4. Sandoz.
5. Vail.
Lineups:
Engineers: Mitchell, Horne, Mur
 

 

\rightly to,

Participate in
Interfaculty Sports?

 

Interfaculty sport is not recei receiving
the support of those people who
should benefit from it, namely the

sport but who are unable for various reasons, to make a senior team.
If the D. A. A. C. were to abolish
|interfaculty sport and to spend the |
funds now available for this sport |
on other sporting activities there)

SSS sss SSS SSS hese

|

|

|
|

|

'would be a howl of protest and quite |
but being a very wise |

body the D.A.A.C. has no intention |
day evening at the Arena, when ajof doing any thing so rash. On the!
strong team of Engineers walked/contrary they will encourage inter- |

faculty sport.

part in these sports. Monday night |
they can play basketball, and Fri- |
day night hockey,
be arranged if sufficient students
were interested. It is unfortunate
that the only time available for
these sports is in the evening.

It is true that the average student
has more to do now than he ean
successfully handle. Military training combined with the regular college work does not leave much time
for extra-curricular activities. But,

military training, although it is
partly physical, does not take the
place of a good clean game of sport.
Military authorities recommend that
men training for service in our
armed forces (and that is exactly
what we are doing) should be physieally fit. What better way is there
to keep fit than by participating in
sport?

But what of the average student
at Dalhousie? What does he think
of interfaculty sport? He probably thinks that he is not athletically

 

ray, DuMont, Harvey, J. Foster,
Vail, Dunham, MacKenzie, K. Foster
Sandoz, Moir.

Dentistry: Ball,
son, Leiberman,
Eaton,

Condon, AnderErvin, Marshall,

me

 

  
   

AN

‘Buckin

ee ee i ae a

FAMOUS FOR TASTE

D MILDNESS

gham

However, the stu- |
'dents simply are not taking advan- ||

The Engineérs showed real hockey | tage of their opportunity to take ||
| Tommy Dorsey’s Orchestra:

Softball could!

 

January 24, 1941

 

   
  
 
   
 

lt CLL LN —_

Here’s today's biggest Value in
pipe tobaccos. A fine quality
mixture—full of flavour—mild ©
and cool. Try a pipe today.

In pouches, packages and 1 Ib. tins.

 

inclined and that he would be wasting his time playing sports, although actually he may have a great
desire to take part in some competitive sport. Interfaculty sport is
designed, not for the people who are
experts in sport but for anybody
who wants some good exercise.
Therefore I am _ suggesting that
more people take an active interest
in interfaculty sport. By so doing
they will not only be doing themselves a favor but they will also be
doing the college a favor by ensuring that each year new talent will
be available for our senior teams.
So let’s all turn out for interfaculty
sport and make sure that Dalhousie
is well represented in sport in the
years that lie ahead.

POSITION OF PRESS—
(Continued from page one)

Forbes Mountain, another newcomer, claimed that many people are
afraid to read big books and just
love to get their hands on an editorial or periodical which is too
much condensed. The next meeting
will be held a fortnight hence. Prof.
Curtis will assist.

You are welcome to this opportunity of overcoming your personal
difficulties in speaking before a
small audience. It’s all in fun! If
you are interested, let’s see you at

Ar nes |
“i Se

Dr

RECORDS

HERE ARE SOME OF THE |
MOST POPULAR. NEW
DANCE NUMBERS
Duke Ellington’s Orchestra:
{ Warm Valley
} Flaming Sword
{ Chloe
| Across the Track Blues

  
  

 

 

§ Star Dust
| Swanee River
§ Do You Know Why
lIsn’t That Just Like Love
Artie Shaw’s Orchestra:
Star Dust
) Temptation
| Frenesi
| Adiss, Mariquita Linda
Leo Reisman’s Orchestra:
§ The Last Time I Saw Paris
| What Makes a Song
{ Fresh as a Daisy
) Let’s Be Buddies
Wayne King’s Orchestra:
§ You Walk By
| Goodnight Mother
§ Serenade
| Evening Star

Come in and Hear

Them

    

Vek
456-460 BARRINGTON STREET

|
REET || =

 

 

 

Dance Favors

It takes planning to
have favors for a
dance that are “just
right”’.

Birks have them — let
us plan with you.

Henry Birks &
Sons

Diamond Merchants

|

 

     
 

Gruen, the recdgnized style leader,
is the most envied
watch in Ameriea,.

It costs no more to
own one of these
fine watches than
others of inferior
make. Gruen are
featured at .

Thos. C. Johnson

and Sons
Limited

Diamond Rings Gruen Watches
Jewelery

 

 

 

 

MACLEOD, - BALCOM, LIN FPED

DRUG

GISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets

|
|
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N

 

The Nova Scotia

Offers Engineering Courses
in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.

‘
a

~*

 

Technical College

00 each for Nova Scotia Students

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomag

Modern Equipment, Instructing

Staff with Individual Experience

Write or call for Calendar or advice to

F. H. SEXTON, President

a

ln i llc I sleet

ie
- * 3. ‘ x 2

 
