 

{Hoey

 
  
    
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
   
 
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
  
   
 
   
  
     
    
    
    
   
  
   
    
  
    
   
  
     
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  

   

a Be . By DON BLACK
i CUP. Editor Dalhousie Gazette

mes mid-term and a wave of
tan eli Bweeps across the country
ET lg

staffs from various socieete. The McGill
aa Jail: De ain the Canadian papers with

2 special issue approximately every
her day put out by some society or

taken a shot at journalism.

i ae _ The Silhouette from McMaster
: y ae and Manitoba are throwing an edib 4 tion at the co-eds soon. Not to be

v4 fd outdone the Queens Journal appears
with a special science edition (enRe Di gnats to you), Outstanding in
Be the engineers effort were some hu
ine - station.) A parody on a certain well
Toi Bf known C.U.P. columnist entitled Pie
Le Hyed An Got "Em by Raving Funk
topped them all.

pe - The discontented journalists not
ce only are getting other people to do
their work, they are doing other peo_ ple’s to relieve the monotony. Even
_ Larry Smith of Varsity and Presi. Bk dent of C.U.P. has taken a shot at
_ Hither and Yon in his paper. Some
ag O’Mara guy writes it once a month
= i when nobody ie will do it for him.

‘Special bition bring to mind
‘cuts of various Sadie Hawkins activities that appeared with St.
____-*Valentine’s or thereabouts. East_— ern:s girls are undoubtedly the
ss pugnacious, and we mean pugna_ ¢ions when it comes to getting
_-—s« their men. Witness a picture of
girls at Mount Allison chasing
their loves with fixed bayonets on
service rifles. At Acadia a good
replica of a scalping party was in
_-—séprogress when the Athenaeum
_ camerman appeared on the scene.
- * In any event the timid male was
giving in to the gentle caressing
of a hatchet. NICE GIRLS!!!

aa"

be The L.S.S. is making a nation-wide
_ appeal for funds and this has met
p with good response nearly everywhere. ‘At U.N.B. they are selling
_ a flag pole bit by bit and making a
Bia alee. thing out of it for war work.

ey iene’ ‘eollewé journals have
_ now two of their number piloted
_ by women. The Brunswickan recently passed into the hands of
the fair sex while the Dal Gazette
ae was taken over by female coeditors at the beginning of the
new year. Wars and rumors of
Kone are certainly making imWitcag on our journala,

 

a ss, ve hate to think of anyone of being just slightly childish, but the

4LS in the Gateway from Al_berta had us stopped. Was it a coed
_ war effort, a class in child psycho
logy or something? Apparantly it

was just an exhibit of dolls, with
ard: ‘obes and everything (Gee
are touched) that were being
‘ee me to swell war

——_—

sae your local paper for time and |°

er day a full page display of

| Gazette’s sports page.

 

 

WHICH. ONE FOR PRESIDENT ?

 

“JOE” MacDOUGALL OR “WEB” MacDONALD?

Tuesday, March 4th, is Election Day! Students are expected to gather in large numbers in the Forrest Building and
in the Gymnasium, and there to carefully cast their secret
ballot for those outstanding in their sphere of extra curricular
activity. The names which you select will guide the destiny of
student activities for the year 1941-42.

Having introduced the candidates for presidency of the
Council in last week’s issue, the Gazette takes pleasure in introducing the following:

FOR VICE-PRESIDENT OF STUDENTS’ COUNCIL

“DOOLEY” MacINTOSH BERNIE GRAHAM

Alex. “Dooley” MacIntosh hails| Bernie Graham is well known to
from Sydney and, unfortunately for|most Dalhousians who are acquaintDalhousie, we have not had the|ed with his capabilities and his inpleasure of knowing him until this /telligent appreciation of situations.
year. He is in first year Law, hav-| Bernie obtained his B.A. with honing earned his B.A. at Mount Alli-|ours at Dal in 1939. The following
son. While at Mt. A. he was on the| year he was an exchange student at
Men’s Administrative Council, cor-|the University of Toronto. He has
responding to his position as Dea-|served most efficiently on the Stucon at Pine Hill residence this year.| dents’ Council, has been treasurer

He was on the staff of the “Ar-|of the Class of ’39, and was a memgosy” at Mt. A. and was Valedic-| ber of that very capable Convocatorian for his class, This year he/|tion Week Committee of the same
has played senior football, and hoc- | year.
key for Dal. He has continued with| Bernie served as editor of the
dramatics by taking part in our 3-|Dalhousie Gazette (1988-’89) and is
Act “Spring Dance”. You remem-|now in second year Med. Another
ber his little tap dance? A very}real Dalhousian. This voting busilikeable fellow is Dooley, having a1 ae makes one deliberate, does it
most attractive personality. /not?

VICE-PRESIDENT

BARBARA SIENIEWICZ - CHRIS ARKLIE
Two capable girls whose talents in Glee Club have been directed for
the most part in designing costumes. Barbara will be a junior next year
and Chris a sophomore,

GLEE CLUB (PRESIDENT)
KAY ROBINSON DON KIRKPATRICK

Kay will be a Junior next year.| Don has been at Dal for two
As a freshette she won the Pan-|years. Last year he spent. much
Hellenic award (outstanding fresh-|time in the stage crew and this seaette at Dal). Last year she played|son the back stage operations are
the lead in the Freshman play, also|under his supervision. Manager of
took part in the one-acter by Pi|the intermediate football team and
Beta Phi, has played on same for the past

She is dramatic manager of Delta|two years. Like his opponent, he
Gamma and will this year be re-|shows a hearty interest in the welmembered for her part in ‘Spring |fare of the Glee Club.
Dance” and in the forthcoming Pi
Beta Phi play.

SECRETARY
CHARLIE McKIM
Halifax. Back stage worker. Has
taken part in interfaculty sports.,

BENNY LEVITZ
Newfoundland, Make-up artist.
Director of Arts and Science Society play this year.

D. A. A.C. (PRESIDENT)
BOB BLOIS JACK CHARMAN

Interfaculty sports manager this} Jack is down at Med School. Has
year. Has played hockey and ten-|been Secretary of the D.A.A.C. for
nis for Dal. Vice-President of the|two years. Like Bob Blois, he will
D.A.A.C, this year. Keenly interest-| receive a silver “D” this year for ined in sports and helps with the| termediate sports. His best game is
Has one| basketball.
more year in Commerce.

‘ceived it in 1988.

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 28, 1941

ALCOLM AWARD GOES TO CLAYTON HUTCHINS 
 

 

2

No. 17

 

ONE-ACTERS|LIVERPOOL STUDENT

TO COMPETE

The next Gllee Club show is set
for Friday, March 7th. Pi Beta Phi
(girls’ fraternity) will present “New
School of Wives’—a satirical comedy in one act by John Kirkpatrick.
Members of the cast have all had experience in plays before. The play
is under the very capable direction
of Mrs. K. C. Clarke who will long
be remembered for having directed
this year’s “Spring Dance.”

Arts and Science will provide a
striking contrast when they produce
“Comin’ Rounnd the Mountain’”—by
Ned Albert. The scene takes place
in a remote section of the Ozark
Mountains in Missouri. This one
act “hill billy” is directed by Bunny
Levitz of St. John’s, Newfoundland
—young make-up artist of the Studley Campus who has been of invaluable assistance in the make-up room
this year.

The Characters (Pi Beta Phi)

JON DUMOM Fo ees ik a Harry Smith
Mariam Dunlop ..... Mary Johnson
RSP e's so bare a men Marie Payzant

Ellen Dunlap Mary Boswell
Roberta “Bobbie” Vance
Joy Morrison

8 6.0 @ 4.0: 4) ®

Cecile Pendleton Kay Robinson
Harriet Schofield .... Joan Ballem
Warren Price —.. Clayton Hutchins

Arts and Science

James Stevens
Morton Norman

“Zeke”
Pappy

“ee eene eevee

COOTTS SINE Soe ea gw ooo ece oe Carey
Inez Smith ...... “Dynamitie” Ann
Rose Goodman ...... Maw Judkins
AnD Goodeve iiss oi et Daisy
Connie Spinner .......... Hortense
Dorothy MacDonald ...... Millicent

Jerry Naugler will be there with
his music after the show and dancing
will continue until 12.30 a. m,

Medicine
Candidates

DON MacKEIGAN Ist year
Med.; Secy. Class of °41 for two
years; was on D.A.A.C, management
committee and was President of
Arts and Science.

HENRY REARDON — 8rd year
Med.; done everything; including six
years business manager Year Book;
Council Representative; Ping Pong
Champ, etc., etc., etc.

BENTLEY WILSON — Got his
B.Se. at Acadia; now in 2nd year
Med.; Basketball.

HENRY TONNING—comes from
N.B.; ask any one who knows him
and they’ll tell you he’s a great guy.

 

Law
Nominees

KEN JONES—Hails from King’s.
Held numerous executive positions in
every type of college activity.

PETE NICHOLSON — Been on
Council two years; Sec.-Treas. Law
Society; Treas. Weldon Inn Fraternity, Honorary Gold ‘D’.

We wish to. apologize for the
omission of Ian MacKeigan’s name
from the list of those who had won
the Malcolm Honour Award. He Te
I eae a ge is a cee ee gaa et ae dan a

CHOSEN FOR HONOR

Law Graduate Unanimously Selected as Outstanding
Man in Class *41 by Malcolm Honour Award
Committee.

Clayton Hutchins, president of the |
D.A.A.C., has been chosen as this
year’s addition to the Maleolm
Honor Society by the unanimous |
decision of the committee making |
the award. Active in all extrascholastic activity, “Hutch” this year
graduates from the Law School with |
a high record in scholastic achievements behind him. This year’s recipient of the award is the first male
student in three years to achieve the
honor, Joan Blackwood and Irene |
Pentz being the recipients in the |
last two years. |

The Malcolm Honor Award is well |
known to students as the highest
honor which they can bestow upon
their classmates. It was initiated
to commemorate “Jimmy” Malcolm
’03, who was a football hero, a successful scholar and a gentleman.

Clayton came to King’s College
from Liverpool, where he had attended Queen’s County Academy.
Graduating in Arts from King’s in
86, he taught for a year at K.C.S.
and returned to Dalhousie in 1938

mit Lf OO

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

 

 

Clayton Hutchins
While at
of the
K.C.A.A.A., president of his graduating class, active in dramatics and
(Continued on Page Four)

 

to enter the Law School.
King’s he was Secy.-Treas.

 

     

YOUR CHOICE FOR THE STUDENTS’ COUNCIL

With fear and trepidation we now present DIPO’s straw vote on the

Students’ Council election. It is still too early to give our figures as a
forecast, and there are factors involved which make this even less reliable than most of our figures. Ordinarily different faculties vote im
much the same manner. When it comes to elections, however, asking
too many or too few of one faculty or class may make a great difference.

For President, Webster Macdonald would* appear without much
doubt to be the people’s choice. Studley voted 96% for Macdonald, while
4% were non-committal. Medicine gave each of the candidates 29% of
the vote, while 42% were undecided. Law was 100% for Macdonald,
Dentistry 75%, with the other 25% still in the dark, while a couple o*
Pharmacists had not made up their minds. Our reporter at the Med
School warns that the returns there may not be very reliable, and that
the proportion with their minds undecided is quite large there, so MaeDougall’s vote may be actually much larger than our returns would
show.

With regard to the Vice-Presidency the returns are even more unsatisfactory, largely on account of the small number of Meds quizzed.
Studley voted 46% for MacIntosh, 38% for Graham, with 6% im the
dark. Medicine was 50% for Graham, 18% for MacIntosh, with 8% undecided. Law was solidly for MacIntosh, Dentistry and Pharmacy pretty
well divided, with one of the three Dents voting for MacIntosh. Probabilities point to a small majority for MacIntosh, but don’t quote us on
this one. Assuming the undecided students in each faculty to vote in
the same proportion as those who have made up their minds, this election
would be just about even.

A small majority of those quizzed like the present system of having
nominees for the presidency and vice-presidency of the Students’ Council
selected by the outgoing Council. 56% approve the present system of
nomination, while 46% object to it. Apparently opposition to the established order is centered in Studley, where students drink Roy’s coffee
and read the Gazette, There 61% want to change the system, while 39%
oppose any change. At Forrest, on the other hand, the advocates of the
status quo have a greater voice. 78% acquiesce in the present arrangements, while only 27% are dissatisfied. This seems to establish the more

conservative nature of the professional campus.
ee Jone ae

YOUR FAVORITE COMIC STRIP?

The co-eds of Studley, who positively adore Dagwood, succeeded in
boosting Blondie to first place among the comics read by the intellectuals of Dalhousie. 80% look forward to this feature with greater anticipation than any other, compared with 28% who picked Lil Abner, the
Forrest campus favorite. The Dogpatch epic was apparently given its
greatest boost by males hoping for bids to the Sadie Hawkins dance.

In third place is that saga of the man of the future, Superman, with
10% of the votes, followed by the story of the sensational boxer, Joe
Palooka, with 5%. “Out Our Way” and “Our Boarding House” are tied
with 3%, while others mentioned include Bringing Up Father, Alley
Ooop, Popeye, Nebbs, Herby, Henry, Napoleon, and Smily Jack. Notable
was the fact that all comics getting more than one vote appear in the

Herald and Mail. 8% expressed no opinion, not being intellectual enough
to read the funnies,

 

 

  
 
   

  
 

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette
Dear Madam,

I should like to say something in
addition to the remarks made in
your editorial in last week’s issue.
In your opening paragraph, you said
that as .elections draw near, it
would be well to examine the machinery existing for nominations
and elections at Dalhousie. This is
every student’s right, and it is one
which is not exercised enough perhaps, The important thing, which I
would like to stress, is that the
present system of selection of candidates by the Students’ Council has
a great deal of merit and this has
not been emphasized enough in your
editorial, although you have mentioned that this method has had
very good results. I wish to stress
this point, because I fear that your
editorial may have given some people the idea that they are being railroaded into voting for a
very select group, which is not true.
Granting that the present system
of nominations has its limitations as
you say, still, I do not think that you
could say that personal prejudices
entered into this selection because if
they did, then I was not aware of
|them myself.

 
  
  
   
       
     
 

B-9746
B-3148
B-9586
B-9746
B-4421
B-9746
B-3674
B-5635
B-5724
B-9746
B-2753
B-2717
B-9746
B-9746
B-1049
B-9746

  
   

f
cb be 2 oe ee et oe” ee eee

   
 

ARGARET G y=
Editor: PENNY PATCHELL
nager; INEZ SMITH - -_ =.
it Business Manager: MARY JOHNSON

 

. er rare . WHO’S UP?”
epee | (Contributed Editorial)

   

About this time every year the Students’ Council
omins two or three students. as candidates for the presimney of the next year’s Council. Ordinarily they are out
standing persons with whom a great many students are
liar. In all cases they must have had some experience on

Council or in executive positions on the campus. Despite

this, every year finds probably over half the student body in

the position of having to vote without knowing very much
about one or both of the candidates. What is true with regard

» the presidency is doubly so when it comes to any other office. te

e result is that the average student, even the one of super-|/ think you can agree with me

zlequean intelligence, goes to the polls on election day with | that under our present system, a

vague notion that someone-or-other he knows is running for ™°¥e scrupulous and intelligent body

-  such-and-such an office and that he might as well fill in the | (excluding myself, of course) than

_ cther spaces on the ballot when he is voting. It is not at all ‘he Present Council, could not be
eet : : athered together on the cam

uncommon to see a voter gaze with complete uncomprehension § Peer nee pas

at a ballot and then mark down an “X” with gusto on seeing ater choosing cenueates for Student |

familiar name. Elections. If you don’t think so, I'd

Be hi TAN this is, of course, very unintelligent voting. There are advise you to come over to a Council

occasions, no doubt, when from personal knowledge of one of Meetings some day and take a look |

the candidates one may be sure that he will do the job well, bee every member individually (again
and others when the mere seeing of a certain name on plies Coe nome myself) and then altoge-_

_ ballot sheet is a good enough reason to vote for the other ther as . body. . . |

a is candidate. The more usual thing, however, is that one candi- Now I’m not speaking as a biased |

_ date will be rejected immediately, not because he is inefficient | Council member, but as an average |

'  _ or ill-suited for the job, but simply because he isn’t familiar. | student, who has done just what I

| It is this lack of knowledge which also gives rise to the famous advised you to do, looked them over.

Dalhousie evil, voting by faculties. When a candidate’s abilities | All this I say for the D. A. A. C.

are known, the voter will very often ignore the part of the selections also, as I think I’m quali
' @ampus he represents. When he signifies nothing more than | fied to speak for that body, but

__—aname, however, thé natural thing is to ask, “Is he in Medicine, Somebody else will have to speak for
or Law, or Arts?” The faculty with the greatest amount of the Glee Club, as I am not familiar

_ homogeneity then naturally turns out the largest vote for its with the members of that exreptine.|

favoured candidate, and next year all the other faculties| As for your objective scheme, I’d

naturally are urged to unite to throw off this domination. like to say that you have neglected
=. This is a very old story, and at Dalhousie in particular, a|°7® Very necessary thing. That is,

-_-yemedy has been sought for a number of years. The one that only the different executives are}

__usually adopted is that of having the various candidates meet |best able to determine the candi
    
       

 
     
   

  
  
  
    
     
 
 
   
   
  
  
     
   
 
    
 
  
  
  
   
  

 
 
  

 

 

 

|LETTERS TO THE EDITORS!

 

 

| gain and to acquire” from the en
 

 

 

 

    

Editors, Dalhousie Gazette
Mesdames:

As an ex-editor who cannot hold
ink I should be grateful for space
in which to answer last week’s
letter by Charles Roberts, complaining of two “events”: a student
asking “What is the war effort doing for us?”; and the objection of
certain students to Military Training.

No one should single out a student’s asking such a question as a
“disturbing factor” when it is being
asked by every other group in
Canada. When the leader of His
Majesty’s loyal opposition asks in
the House why wartime industrial
plants should not be built in New
Brunswick rather than Ontario or
Manitoba and western members ask
why they should not be built in
Vancouver instead, when trades
unions try to get wages boosted and
manufacturers try to keep them
down, when people who can afford
it indulge in “profitable patriotism”
by lending money to the government
at respectable interest rates, even
when Senator Meighen fights to protect “property, profit, the ‘fundamental instinct of the human race to

“But they won't wait for us!”
"They'll wait for our Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES 4

* The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

The National Fish Company, Limited

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS |
5 NOVA SCOTIA

croachments of a liberal government, all of them are asking the
same question. They are asking it
because they are realists, They
want equality of profit and of sacrifice} They do not wish-the group
to which they belong to be treated
less fairly than the others. The
remedy is not to write “tush-tush”
letters to the paper but to find out}
what is at the bottom of the demand
for fairer treatment.

|
|
|

HALIFAX

 

WALLACE SHOES Sterling or

Silver Plate?

Both have their place
in today’s living ... at
Birks you will find the |
finest of each. |

Birks Sterling and
Birks Regency Plate—
the standard of excellence for Canada .

Henry Birks &
Sons

Diamond Merchants

Now is the time
For Ski Boots

and SKATING OUTFITS

for Men and Women
Wide Range of Styles

 

Now Mr. Roberts knows very well
what is at the bottom of this question. Perhaps the “certain students”
he mentions belong to that group
of medical men who are excessively
burdened by being called in on emergency cases such as meningitis or
obstetrics yet have to put up with
insults from individuals higher up
who suggest they are slacking. Mr.
Roberts knows about this better than
we do, for a few weeks previously
he wrote in the Gazette concerning
military training not “who are we
to decide these things?” and “it is

Priced from $3.95 to $11 |
Wallace Bros.

Limited
415 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

  

-_————_..___.

such students. as care to turn out to a student forum. If, at /@#tes’ qualifications which must in_ these meetings, the candidates would really say something |
about the issues involved and state just on what grounds they

 
  

{>ought they, and not their opponents should be elected, some
  
 

 

clude previous experience, good class| our duty to carry out their decistanding, popularity, and ability. | sions” as he did last week but “let
This is what accounts for the suc-|us continue our work without intercesses to date, of our present method | ruption” and “the standard of the

 

thing might be gained. But if the candidates confine them- 0 da '
'® selves to soothing remarks such as, “If I am elected I will do|! nominations and elections, and 1
|) ‘my best to represent, without fear or favour . . . ”, this method | think that it is absolutely necessary
| ‘may be worse than useless. It merely substitutes a personal |{r the success of any future |

| impression gained from a minute’s acquaintance for what may |S*heme. |
‘bea valid idea of his ability gained from a friend. It improves| Before I close, let me restate my |
Br ee he chances of the “beautiful” candidate, the good-looking man |™#!"% Point once more. This was,
- _~ who can make a good showing and can speak comfortingly, It | that although the present method of
_ hinders the solid, hard-working individual whose work may |S¢lection of candidates for elections

9ecome apparent only as the year progresses. Fortunately for |™4y seem to be remote and exclu
_ Dalhousie this year neither or the candidates for the Presidency | sive to many students, yet all selec_ are “beautiful” men, so the students may have to choose on /| tons are made with a view to suit
other grounds than glamour. ing the student body’s wishes and
ee es EE the different qualifications for these

If this is not a good method of discovering the merits of
- ¢andidates what, then, are we to recommend?

    
 

 

   

   

  

 
 

   

|against the more consistent students

- Farmers’ Milk is

RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME
YOU'LL LIKE IT.

S—",

   

college must drop as a result of this
time lost. If the college is willing
to see this happen the students are
not.”

 

 

          
 

  
 

Mr.Roberts may indulge the privilege of changing his mind as often
as his shirt -without any ob,<ctions on our part, but we do object
when he expends his newly found
enthusiasm in hurling objurgations

  
 

        
 

        
    
 

FARMERS’ LIMITED
NOVA SCOTIA

    

who still feel as he did when he|
exclaimed “Let us do one thing ata
time and do it well.” Just now he

     
 

 

 

HALIFAX

eres
ae still, so far as we can see, is that of finding out a candidate’s
- eapabilities from people who know. There is always the danger
that some of our friends will turn out to be propagandists in
disguise, but surely there are enough honest and fairly intelligent people on the campus that one can learn something about
Men “pee enough to be nominated for the Students’
_ Council, enough, in fact, to give a fairly good basis for voting.
For the guidance of students (who surely don’t need guidance)
__ _we recommend the following tests. They are old enough, but
not everyone accepts them.

_ ._ Ability is the first test, and it is a very important one. It
__ is not a sufficient qualification for a candidate for the Students’
Council that he is a personal friend of yours, even that he is a
good sport or that he dances well or plays hockey well. These
things all count in selecting friends or hockey players. or
partners at the Sadie Hawkins Dance, but they do not count
__when it comes to Students’ Council elections. What is called
for there is administrative ability, the capacity to run the
__ business of all the students at a University for a year. A
Council member should be able to keep his head in a crisis and
not lose his temper at a meeting. He should be able to keep his
Own personal preferences and prejudices out of the transaction
___ of the business of those whom he was elected to represent. In

_ short, he should be a good executive. |
 __ Honesty in a candidate is even more important than ability.
___ It is natural that students would not want to elect to represent
them anyone who would make off with some of their Students’
Re uncil fee, but honesty as we see it means more than this.
_ It implies that an elected candidate will make a sincere attempt
___ to do a good job, that he will not be a slacker when it comes
o other people’s business. Ability counts for very little if it
used unselfishly, The only test for this is the candidate’s

       

  
  
  
    
 

i ; " We

  

  

   

   

 

    
   

        

     

  

  

    

  
 
  
   
 

  
  

   
  

hard and efficient work in some other
good that he will do it if you elect
uirly consistent record of dodging work,
e a sudden reformation. Avoid especihimself elected to five or six different

  
 

a i ae
4 ‘i a , are
a mer iat

 
 

The best one | offices.

Thanking you for this space,

DEWAR MacLEOD,
Commerce Representative.

is at pains to display his patriotism
in contrast to the deplorable attitude
of his fellows. Yet he protested
that he was patriotic in his previous
With many points in this letter] jtierances. Why then
the editors are in complete agree- | deny that luxury to those who still
ment. However, we cannot agree occupy the position from which he
with the old Conservative saying: | was so recently shifted?
“Everything for the people, nothing
by the people.”—Kd.

JOHN WINDEBANK.

    

offices and neélects them all. Indeed, better avoid anyone who
gets into five or six important jobs, for they can’t all be done
well. And avoid the person who intends to use his office to
advance a particular group on the campus. If your candidete
doesn’t intend to work for the good of the student body, he
doesn’t deserve to be elected.

Politics, the third test, is one often not admitted. ‘The
very word has a shady significance which connects it with

“Lunatic Lobby”. Politics in the sense of an attempt to achieve
a postion of prominence on the campus by any means available

is a distinctly bad thing. But students have an interest in
finding out what candidates stand for, what general policies
they intend to follow, and what action they will take on
specific issues.
representatives will support and what they will oppose.

at the present time.

ask him.

Now, if you vote unwisely, don’t say that you haven’t been
warned, and don’t walk into the booth on election day and say

meekly to the nearest freshman, “Who’s Up?”

should he

Students have a right to know what. their
There
are several methods for finding this out, none foolproof, for
members may conceivably change their opinions readily. It
will pay, however, to find out which side a particular candidate
has taken in previous issues, as well as the policies he favours
With regard to the latter, if all other
methods fail, you can call up the candidate on the phone and

 

 

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

   
  
 

  
 

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

    
   

  

Arts and Science Faculty

| Degrees: B.A., B.Sc.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing,-leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Se. * rs

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration. ,
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

 
     
    

 

    
   
     
 

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

    
  

  

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

      
 
  

   

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

    
 
 

    

   
  
 
    
        
      
 
    
     
 
  
       
     
      
      
        
      
    
   
     
        
  
  
   
    
    
  
 
 
   

de, at an en age ‘and start= peademic career at the Haliun y cpg

re: sentative on the D.A.A:C. and
a, nd time to be a member of the
a fis -swimmi Y ing team. He rounded out
ea __ the colleg lege year by participating ini
he Munro Day Show.
_ For the next two years Mr. Muna ‘© was active in many things. Bei Tagen playing hockey, he was Presee ident of the Intermediate Hockey
‘Be JCA ZU Last year he was nomiAe nated for the presidency of D.A.A.

 

i and lost by a small margin to
Clayton Hutchins. Bain also played in the band.

“Main Bunroe’””’, as he is called in
Ride land of Rangoon, became member at large on the D.A.A.C, execuFive and Vice-President of the Arts
pena Science executive. Bain is to be

well remembered by Studleyites for
iis good work in aiding in the reBY construction of the financial section
of the Arts and Science Constitu- |.
tion. His classmates honored him
ej ” e by electing him-as their class presi| dent for life.
| ‘When the Gazette staff changed
after Christmas, Bain came forward
as a loyal Dalhousian and offered

his aid in the hour of need. Since

_ then his work does not go unnoticed

"as a sports writer. Not only does

he give us the highlights in our

Ci araste of sport, but almost any day
you ean pick up a Halifax Mail and
- pead “On and Off the Dal Campus”
| by Bain Munroe.

ithe »
PP; g Sty

ee
A rather unfortunate mistake
made last week brought some interesting developments. We errone% ously reported Musset as having
parted with his Frat. pin, while all
the while we meant Bob Wilcox.
_ The item, however, caused some so_ cial embarrassment, as Mussett was
unable to produce the pin in question. Perhaps we weren't so wrong
after all, or at least, were calling
our shots. Anyway, there has been
ig a transfer of Fraternity Hardware,
e as and it all took place in Dartmouth.
* * *
‘We have it on good authority that
ye ie “Wavy Navy” is beginning to
_ inerease it’s nusiance value on the
Fi Gaenkins, This time it would seem
that Daph. has finally coralled something more than a class pin.
wr otty, knotty.
aes i ee
The Junior Prom has been and
ie and gone. We were glad to
e that Inez took full advantage
her opportunity, and Webby
semec to enjoy himself. Better
| yen Wubber, Sadie Hawkins

we

 

 

 

ee

‘ance of _ our Joy.

r cain sparen none the

 

oes
SCRIPTA

Few days remain before our election day, the most interesting and
exiting time of the campus year. A
close observation of the progress of

 

 

-|a student election campaign from

the first day of active stumping until the last resul*s are announced is
an education in itself which no
student should miss. In the beginning things are usually very quiet,
—such tame remarks are overheard
as “Sure, he is a good man, but this
one has more experience.” This
sort of banter goes on the rounds
for a few days, then the stumpers
for the various candidates become
more audacious by pulling friends
into obscure corners to give them the
good word or arrange a mutually
eonvenient plan of vote-trading.
This latter practice, in the past, has
been developed to a very healthy
state indeed, in fact it has been
known to involve the votes of whole
‘\faculties, and large ones at that.
This, to the casual observer, might
seem to resemble skullduggery of
the puresst form, but judging from
the past history of elections at Dalhousie, the careful observer will
realize that given a top-notch candidate to vote for, no amount of
persuasion or promises of blockvotes will deter the great majority;
of the unorganized voters, wit
whom final choice necessarily rests,
from a selection of the best man by
rational voting.

Post mortems on the final results
of the Student Elections often provide interested parties with enough
“meat” to hash over for weeks. It
is not an uneommon experience to
have someone sidle up to you on a
fine day in April and say: “I’ve just
worked it out, now I know what
those ——— so and so’s did with the
votes they controlled.” After showing you what he means by the employment of advanced mathematics
and a good deal of conjecture he will
probably walk off muttering to himself, “Wait until next year.”

Ea

Intrigue in campus affairs is about
as thick as grease and often twice
as slick, and in spite of what may
be said against undercover dealings, they _ do liven things up
and even if they serve no other useful purpose but to stimulate interest in the election, they are undoubtedly justified, for college spirit at

 

 

And there was the young lady
who, when asked for a dance, replied sweetly, “I’d love to”, whereupon her gentleman friend said,
“O.K. then, let’s love.”

* * ce

Report has it that our old friend,
“Mae” Johnson is again in circulation after her lengthy illness. Perhaps the strain proved too much for
her. We are also glad to announce
the reappearance of “Bunny” after
eer selngs: through.

:

* * *

We are pleased to note that
Peggy Gorham’s “Educational” Activities are not interfering with her
“War Work.” Another member for
the Navy League,

* F *

“Margie” must have got her Fraternities mixed. Never confuse Phi
Rho with the other organization of
the same initial letter, Marge. I’m
glad I’m an oilcan.

Le, a
Speaking of oilcans, we understand the Sig. Formal was graced
by the presence of one (1) only Hall

girl. Must have forgotten that the
“Dogpatch” Days were nigh.

* ££

The Phi Chi’s did better at the
Junior Prom. Was it Sadie Hawkins

    

LUNATIC

 

LOBBY .

 

 

Episode Seven entitled:
Only those who order and pay
for Year Books in advance
will be able to secure
them in eternity.

 

When the dead-lion was rude
enough to interupt them last week,
Caporal Tin-horne’s spitoon were
bending their bayonets in a vain
attempt to puncture one of the six
corpses which turned out to be Rufus Rayne who had passed out from
the combined ebects of Lieutenant
Olie Itchy’s lectures on gas and the
hi-balls Major Hokum had slipped
him under the table the night before
at the Junior Pram and was now
coming to and muttering, “Yes sir,
professor Binnet sir, Shakespeare is
a very droll fellow in every respect.”

Now Lieutenant Thickwire who
was passing at that moment became
enraged at the mention of the bewiskered bard in such terms of commendation and made his protests
known to the bewildered native of
Rangoon (i.e. R. Rayne) saying,
“Begod sir you are something of a
dolt to waste your worship or such
a middle-class moron as that fellow
Shakespeare. Surely Binnet and
Burning Martini have brought it to
your attention that Rudyard Kipling...” But at this juncture Colonel J. Egglespie Oatcake bore down
on the gathering as only so great a
bore as Eggie could bore down and
hearing mention of Ruddy Kipling,
an old friend of his and Rufus’
uncle Colonel Drizzly Rayne began
to disgorge the following cadenzas:

When the great Oatcake his fist did
shake in the flush of the austral
dawn

He sniffed the air from the hidden

lair where the kyber swordfish
spawn

He gathered his might as he
surged to

the fight with Burning Gallstone
the coach

While the studes cried begod as et

lashed
the sod and here is an egg to poach
And Gallstone spat as he tilted his
hat and he grinned thru the
lowering mirk
While Oateake felt.in his Rangoon
belt
For his good Bengali dirk
King Karl openied his mouth to
sluice

his drought with ia. last good can

of swipes

Begod he cried I came in pride but

I shall go home with the gripes

If it wasn’é inhooman I’d tell my old
wooman to dig: up the winner some

tea

But I’d even drink slop in the coffee

shop to help the old empire keep
free

So down to the deevil with

Gallstone and

evil and emulate Oatcake the Great

For nights on my weary knees
dancing with

Gloomytrees is better than Hitler

and Hate.
x ok Om
Note: Colonel Egglespie is now
on his way to Dartmouth, but how
about you friend, how about you?

 

and everything which fosters it
Dalhousie comes in small doses,
should be welcomed rather than
shunned.

Next Tuesday will probably demonstrate that there is a Dalhousie
spirit even after you make allowance for the perennial oddities described so well by Ogden Nash in his
“Election Day is a Holiday” which
runs in part:

“They have such refined and delicate

» palates
That they can discover no one

worthy of their ballots,
And then when-some one terrible
gets elected,

link one.

=s"9Q)

Ralston Ryan’s remarkable recovery last week is eredited more to
psychology than to Ivan Price’s Potanin Iodide (fivev drops three times
daily). Nita and her unknown friend
certainly know how to cure Ralston’s
ailments.

 

% * *

That terrible trio from Newfoundland were certainly caught flat-footed last Friday. Dr. Smith admits
that Watt street is far more interesting, if less beneficial, than Pathology lectures.

* * *

These Newfoundlanders are certainly taking a bow this week. With
Shirley’s projected ventures in now
Robert Pugh, now resident
at the V.G. Your reporters certainly failed badly this year when they
allowed his marriage to go undetected. Congratulations, Rollie.

* * *

Balam and McCurdy certainly
added to the festivities of last weekend, ‘They, outdone only by P. L.
Smith, were the life of the Phi Kappa bonquet and, we might add, of the
supper dance which followed. We
were very glad to see these boys returning to the social whirl.

x oe *

McKeigan and Charman were haying a beautiful time together last
week-end until Audrey arrived.
Don’s style was immediately cramped, but Charman carried on to the
end—who wouldn’t?

x * *

Of late the medical students have
been attracted to the Gaiety Theatre
en masse. Miss Mason’s singing and
dancing are very intriguing, but we
think the boys are more interested
n ‘her first act. The strip-tease has
at last hit Halifax and they certainly are winning lots of applause. For
those interested, the show goes on at
4 p.m. to 9 p. m. daily.

x” & »

It used to be said that “As Medicine goes, so goes Dalhousie.” Last
year this old proverb went by the
boards, but many are hoping that it
will be the by-word again this year.
We do not want to enter into the
controversies of campus politics, but
we would like to plug for good old
Medicine. Joe is a pretty nice chap
with plenty of political experience at
St. F. X.

* se

All four of the nominations for
Med. representation on the Council
are well known, but we are going out
on a limb to predict that Reardon
and Wilson will carry the day.
Reardon has a galazy of experience
and, in his more serious moments, is
capable of fighting to the last ditch
for the right of Medicine. W Wilson,
a quiet and older man, is well
known to the Medical students. Tunning and McKeigan are, respectively, new and first year men. Both are
well known to their fellow students
as gentlemen and students.

WABBITS

A wabbit—
has a funny face;
His private life—
is a disgrace:
Oo’d be surprised
if oo but knoo
The AWFUL things that
wabbits do—
And OFTEN, too.
—Ubussey.

 

A picture ... starry-eyed freshie

They say, There that’s just what I|®rrives at the Medical Building, only

expected!”

 

“How is the second-hand car you
bought?”

“I’ve just realized how hard it is
to drive a bargain.—Xaverian.

half an hour late for her 12 o’clock
lecture. Breezing into her classroom, she mistakes the skeleton
standing guard at the door for the
object, she murmurs a polite “Sorry
to be late, sir,’ and settles down for
the balance of the lecture ... Fadeout.—Variety.

~ A Cadte’s

Night to How! /

Yes Siree! Dogpatch will all be lit up for

the fun

Remember girls get your tickets now and

or feudin’!

grab yourself a man.

 

Monday, March 3rd
Dancing, 9-1

Naugler’s Orchestra — Food ’n everything— all for $1.

 

 

 

CASINO
“Honeymoon

For Three”

ANN SHERIDAN
GEORGE BRENT

“Riding Into

Society”
with ELSA MAXWELL

OXFORD

Today and Saturday
“BLONDIE PLAYS CUPID”

 

“THREE MEN FROM
Monday —- Tues. 
GARRI

TODAY

GEORGE FORMB
“KEEP YOUR SE
and

O
COMING MARCH

“GREAT PLANE ROBBERY”

and “ONE MAN’S

Wednes.
William Powell —- Myrna Loy

“IT LOVE YOU AGAIN”

“WHO KILLED
AUNT MAGGIE?”

“BOOM TOWN”
Starting Thursday

“DOOMED CARAVANS”

 

   
  
   
   
  

Today and Saturday

“LOVE THY NEIGHBOR”
and “THE FARGO KID”

Monday and Tuesday
“THE LONG VOYAGE HOME”

an
“TALL, DARK & HANDSOME”

 
  
  

Wednesday and Thursday
. “LIFE WITH HENRY”
and “VICTORY”
Frederick March

 
 
 

CAPITOL

THEATRE - HALIFAX
TEXAS”

— =

ALL WEEK
Nothing Cut But the Prices

*

Clark Gable

Viven Leigh

a= {Tt —

“Gone With

CK

Y in
ATS”

6th

LAW”

 

BRYLCREEM

—great hair beautifier from En gland—

SE~ \

le

——

 B

TRA in

 

4i-10

)
\
ACCLAIMED viet CANADIAN WOMEN |

 

a
S10)
bry

ioe}

“ne

EVERY WHERE!
)

Makes hair “behave”
das never before!

 

@ Brylcreem prolongs the
beauty of each flattering curl
all day. Grooms the mae without “greasing” it. Imparts
attractive lustre. Cleanses the
scalp of dandruff. Over
18,000,000 jars and tubes sold
annually. So it must be good!
Brylcreem costs as little as 25c.
For extra economy buy the bi

50c tube or jar. Money- bal
guarantee.

RYLCREEM :2:>
Vv No Gum
THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING TONIC = V N° Starch
Vv No Soap

Grooms without greasing!

 

ORPHEUS

 

 

   
    
    
  
     
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
   
   
      
  
   
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
    
     
   
   
  
  
     
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  

 

 

 
  
        

 

 

 


per : —

’ .

—
}
bs
i
*

sia
hi
Vane

a

a

i

oe.
Pea? oF

i)

is
ry
ae

 

—_ * *

_ Hutchins 1, Boyd, Piercey 6.

| ape

 

Well ‘ell, | Interfaculty Hockey League has been
successful ok the victor go the spoils or something.
‘As we have mentioned several times before, this League has
been a source of great interest to the majority of the societies

and most particularly, Medicine, Law, and Engineers, who in

their fracases, have featured some of the best hockey seen in

an Interfaculty Hockey League for somé time. Congratulations

“to the winners and to the other teams for making the league

: teresting. Out of all the material in the Interfaculty
Te shes Paine, we have complied with an All-Star team and

a substitute lineup. Here they are:
All-Stars

Alternates
~Goal—Sandy Macdonald MacKenzie
Bees Norm MacRitchie Bus Phillips

Ian MacGregor
Clyde Strickland
Allen MacLeod Grant (Medicine)
4 Bert Vail Jim Harrison '

One by one, sporting activities at Dalhousie are drawing to
a close, Munro Day events usually furnish the finishing touches
to the year’s sports and then everybody starts a ee
futile endeavour, to gather enough knowledge to make the
grade in the Spring exams. Students from Studley and Forrest
compete on this day for the Munro Day Shield when the rivalry
between the two campusés has a chance to exert itself. This
year, the Committee in charge of preparations for the big show,
opes to be able to arrange a different type of sporting program
than has been the usual custom and welcome any constructive
suggestions along this line so that the big day will be even more
successful than usual.

The Dalhousie Tigers’ Basketball team is now definitely
in the playoffs of the City Senior Basketball loop and their remaining obstacle is the Navy quintet. The Tigers have not
been so fortunate in their previous encounters with this team
but the boys have been looking better in every game and since
it is hoped to have Coach Burnie Ralston back on the bench to
direct the team for at least one of the playoff games, we crawl
out on the limb for our own team to take the title.

x * * &

The Dalhousie hockey team will play their last game of
the season next Saturday afternoon, when they take on the
Navy intermediate team. The last time they met, the Sailors
came out on top by a narrow margin and the game Saturday
should prove to be one of the best this season. The hockey
team has not fully recovered from a recent practice at the
Arena when they had to play in a maze of ammonia. The only
way the boys could tell when they were near the net was when
they fell over it. It is rumoured that the officials at the rink
are considering giving their customers a course in Morse code
so that the boys will be able to communicate with each other
while on the ice. .

The hockey team has at least kept its record intact this
year coming through without a win.

* * © *

All badminton enthusiasts be sure not to miss the big
tournament scheduled for tonight in the gymnasium when they
will be given a chance to see some well known champions in
action and at the same time contribute to the Spitfire Fund.
The main attraction of the evening will be the appearance of
Jack Underhill, nine times Canadian champion, and Mare Turcot, Quebec champion. Other stars featured are Bill Newsom,
Ted Williams, Captain Jack Edwards, Eric Woodworth and
other well-known players in the city.

KING’S OVERCOME
DALHOUSIE CUBS

Doig and Piercey Lead Dal Attack.—Forsythe and Spearhead
for King’s.

_The King’s hoopsters edged out the Dalhousie Cubs 32-26
on Tuesday evening at the Dalhousie Gym in a scheduled game
of the Intermediate Basketball League. The game was a rough
and tumble affair with the outcome of the game in doubt until
the final whistle.

Chris McAlden opened the scoring for the King’s team
when he dropped the ball into the basket from close in. Clayton
Hutchins scored the first one for the Cubs on a penalty shot.
Play continued pretty well balanced with neither team having
much advantage. Dave Doig played an outstanding game in

Laurie Horne
Forwards—Joe MacDougall

* * j%- *

 

* this half putting his team in the lead for the first time when

he dropped the ball neatly into the basket on a one-handed shot.
Before the first half ended the King’s team put on a spurt
which brought them on equal terms with the Cubs. Gordon
Drillen tied it up for the King’s quintet when he registered on
two penalty shots. A few seconds later Paul Howard gave the
Kings team a two point lead when after four trys he finally
dropped the ball into the basket. The half ended with the Dalhousie team on the short end of a 12-10 count.

Chris McAlden opened the scoring for the King’s boys
again in the second half. The Dalhousie team, however, continued to trail their opponents by one point until George Piercey
tallied on a smart play to put the Cubs one point up.

It was “Yank” Forsythe, starry King’s frontliner, who led
the King’s to victory. Forsythe chalked up eight points in
quick succession without a reply from the Dalhousie team to
put the Dal quintet down 32-24. The Cubs tried hard to cut
down the King’s lead, but George Piercey scored the only basket
for the Dalhousie team before the final whistle blew to give the

_ King’s boys a 32-26 victory.
i pores Howard and hy
_ players on the King’s team, while Doig, Piercey and Zatsman
i Je oe Dalhousie attack. — 7 |

Jefferson were the outstanding

ineup: , = nae ,
Dalhousie: Zatzman 5, Lennahan, Doig 12, Charman 2,

 

3: McAlden 10, Jefferson, Forsythe 10, Howard 8,
Stubbs 1, LeMoine, Van Horne, Drillen 2.

+; a et, :
- ~. “ Psa , tf a .
ey Dans Ay ;
er. “fa? ‘ 7 *
i ¥ iS af ; ' ; ; i He j
3 op aa
i - <i y :
7 i - ; " ‘ “ i & * | .
» P ”, ris 7 =
Uy . ‘ 7
4) i . m
is a ‘ d ’ \
2 Uae 5 mod
£ - a a1 =. =
‘ a4 ie
7 ‘ .
3 f 34 + rad ‘ “ ly ‘ a fy
, ‘
iv . im
: . _
*
=

{Upset Lawyers in Deciding Game

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Minutes

 

Score 4 Goals in Last 4
CH A LLENGE Wednesday _ evening Medicine
emeged victorious over a hard
The Law School issues a challenge | fighting Law hockey team by a score
to the Medical School to a game of | of 4-0. The series was a two-game
hockey, time and place to be ar-/total goal one and Medicine won the
ranged between representatives of | series 6-2, the first game resulting
these two bodies. in a 2-2 tie.

The game got underway with each
team playing cautiously in an attempt to find their opponents’ weak
spots. The play in the last period

In go issuing said challenge, the
Law School wishes it to be clearly
understood that such action is not
being taken with a view towards detracting from the merits of the wel]|was fairly even. MacDonald in the
earned victory gained by the medi-| nets for Law stopped a lot more rubcal team under interfaculty regu-|ber than the Med. goalie, who was
lations. not pressed at all in this period.

some dangereous

- |MacLeod led
The suggested game is to be a rushes for Law but was watched

i
contest apart from ae ere “ too closely by the Med. defence to
League and consequently war oes score. MacGregor and Strickland
governed by interfaculty regulations broke through the stout Law defence

as to eligibility of players to Ee! oti several occasions but were turned
sent their respective faculties.

SANDY MACDONALD.

'

| Play speeded up
|frame with both teams trying hard
ito score,

Charman, B ] O18 er a the ice Dies oe eo |
~ : |the defensive for the most part. |
For President

| MacRitctie made a few nice break- |

Of D A A C [orere but was skated down by the |
° e ‘ en

fast Med. forwards. Towards the |
end of the period the Lawyers ap- |
peared to be tiring rapidly but managed to keep the Meds out by playing |

 

At ameeting held last weekend the |

D.A.A.C. announced their candidates |* “¢fensive game. |

for the coming elections on Tuesday.| The third period proved to be the
Jack Charman and Bob Blois were|™0st exciting. From the first the
named as the presidential candidates | Meds. drove into the Lawyers with |
for the august body. Whatever may | everything they had. |
be the results of the elections on| At this stage of the game|
Tuesday, students at Dalhousie can | tempers began to flare and Jo Fein- |
be assured that they will have a | del and Al MacLeod started throwpresident of the D,A.A.C. next year|ing punches but big Norm MacRit- |
who is qualified in every way to|chie stepped in and separated them |
carry on the heavy and important | before any damage was done.
responsibilities which the position; ‘Time after time they stormed the
requires. Lawyer’s goal, only to be turned
aside by MacDonald, who was sensaticonal at times. The Law forwards appeared tired and were not |
backchecking effectively at this
stage. Feindel, Grant and MacDougall were the spearheads of the
Meds attack. Piercey and Anderson
broke away but were stopped at the
Med. defence.

 

 

Jack Charman came to Dalhousie
four years ago, and during his years
on the Studley campus he took a
prominent part in all student activities. Last year he was secretary of
the D.A.A.C. and has always taken
& prominent part in sports, particularly in basketball. Since coming
to Dalhousie, Jack has played on the
Intermediate basketball team. In his| The first score of the game came
freshman year he was a member of | with only four minutes to go, Grant
the famed freshman softball team|/on a pass from Fiendel, beating
which captured the league cham-!MacDonald on a hard drive from
pionship in that year. This year/close in. This goal seemed to break
Jack is in his first year Medicine and|the Lawyers spirit as they wilted
from what we can gather he is mak-|under a concentrated attack from
ing an excellent job of trying to| Medicine, A minute later Strickbecome a doctor. land scored on a shot to the corner

Bob Blois has also taken a very |°! the net after a gang-play. A few
prominent part in activities at Dal-|S¢conds later MacGregor picked up
housie. At the present time Bob |2 loose puck inside the Law defence
is Vice-president of the D.A.A.C, and | 2" stickhandled through for an easy
interfaculty manager as well. At a | °F: Just before the game emed,
recent meeting of the Commerce So-| Bethune made it 4-0 for Medicine,
ciety Bob was elected president of when he scored from the wing.
the Society. In the field of sport} At this stage of the game tempers
Bob has been a member of the senior |began to flare and Jo Fiendel and
and intercollegiate teams for the|Al MacLeod started throwing punchpast two years. Badminton has also|es, but big Norm MacRitchie stepclaimed a large part of Bob’s time| ped in and separated them before
and he is recognized as one of the |any damage was done,
outstanding players in City badmin-| fPeindel, Grant and Bethune were
ton circles. exceptionally good for Medicine.

The vice-presidential candidates Feindel bolstered the Med. defence
are Bill Hagen and “Yank” For-|tremendously and led some _ nice
sythe, both well known Dalhousie | rushes.
students. For the Lawyers MacLeod, Mac
Bill has been a member of the|Donald and MacRitchie were outintermediate football team and has | Standing.
taken a prominent part in Glee Club Blois and Matthew refereed the
activities since coming to Dalhousie.|game. Lineups:

Bill is also president of the Sophomore Class.

 

ES
SS

YOUR

“Yank” Forsythe has taken an important part in both King’s and Dalhousie activities. He has been a
member of the King’s basketball
and football teams for several years
and last fall he was one of the outstanding players on the Dalhousie
senior football team,

Verne Graham and Daye Doig
are the candidates for the secretary
of the D.A.A.C. Verne Graham is
in third year engineering and will
be remembered for his high jumping exploits in the intercollegiate
track meet two years ago. Verne
also takes a prominent part in badminton at the university.

Dave Doig is in his third year
Commerce and is basketball manager of the Tigers entry in the City
Basketball League. Dave is also a
member of the senior hockey team
and intermediate basketball team.

aside by MacDonald at the very goalmouth. |

in the second ||

Medicine wth four or five |

 

   
  
    
 

  
  

February 28

RFACULTY CHAMPS OF 1941

 

Med.: MacKenzie, Feindel, Bird,

Downing, Strickland, MaeGregor,
MacDougall, Grant, Bethune
Stewart.

LIVERPOOL STUDENT

 

Continued from page one
debating and received the Bissett
Medal and his silver “K” for

Law: MacDonald, Phillips, Mac- athletics.

Ritchie, Piercey, MacLeod, Anderson
Keddy, Jones.

Of General Interest

At Dal he played rugby with the
Tigers, was a member of the Intermediate basketball team and Law
representative on the D. A. A. C.
During - the summer months the
Liverpool Larrupers took up some of
his time. Last year the winner of

Colin Smith announces that all!the award was elected president of
competitors in the Spring Ping Pong | the D.A.A.C. and received the Cars
Tournament must have reached the
last eight by Saturday; otherwise
they will be eliminated.

The New Telephone Numbers at
Pine Hill are B8501 and B8576,
Take a note of these numbers now
and save yourself any future bother.

Those who find lost articles about
the campus bring them to the main
office in the Library Building. That
will be the one clearing house.

 

{

 

 

VICTOR

HERE ARE SOME OF THE,
MOST POPULAR NEW
| DANCE NUMBERS |
Duke Ellington’s Orchestra:
{ Warm Valley
| Flaming Sword
{ Chloe
| Across the Track Blues
Tommy Dorsey’s Orchestra:
! Star Dust
Swanee River .
ie You Know Why
Isn’t That Just Like Love
Artie Shaw’s Orchestra:
Star Dust
Temptation
Frenesi
Adiss, Mariquita Linda
Leo Reisman’s Orchestra:
ton Last Time I Saw Paris
| | What Makes a Song
ia as a Daisy
Let’s Be Buddies
Wayne King’s Orchestra:
You Walk By
Goodnight Mother
Serenade
Evening Star

Come in and Hear Them

 

 

 

456-460 BARRINGTON STREET

 

RECORDS

 

well prize for second year students
jin law,

 

mK ~
ona

      

Gruen, the recognized style leader,
is the most envied
watch in America.

   

It costs no more to
own one of these
fine watches than
others of inferier
make. Gruen are
featured at...

Thos. C. Johnson
and Sons

Limited

Diamond Rings Gruen Watches
Jewelery

 

 

 

 

 

FAVORITE

DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets |
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

Here's today's biggest Value in
pipe tobaccos. A fine quality
mixture—full of flavour—mild
and cool. Try a pipe today.

In pouthes, packages and /2 Ib. tins.

REACH FOR

THEM TODAY 
 

 

 

 

 
