   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
       
 
   
 
            
 
 
  
    
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
   
    
   

F ormer Peliais |c.

Grad Interned

Toronto Professor
Also Interned

The iron arm of the law reached
out on Sept. 29th, to take into
custody Charles Murray (Dal. B.Sc.
Fisheries ’31). The Dalhousie grad- |
istuate, who is suspected of commu-|
nistic activity, was apprehended by
two plain clothes “‘mounties” at the
home of his father, near Halifax, re

(Permitted to see his wife, who|
was confined in the Halifax Infirm- |
ary Murray was interned after the
birth of a son.

Since graduating as a fisheries |
specialist, Murray, one of a family y
which includes three medical doctors, a missionary and two clergy,) the following:
had been employed in Newfoundland, Labrador and the Maritimes Webster MacDonald, for services
by the Fisheries Research Depart-| rendered in connection with the Stument. dents’ Handbook of last year.

In the last two years he has been! 9 flected Otto Antoft and Dewar

secretary of the Seamen’s Union, MacLeod to the Students’ Gate Comlatterly part-time secretary of the| mittee.

Fishermen’s Union, in which capa- —
a ata, : : 3. Formed a committee of Ruth
city he headed up the Loekeport, MacQuarrie, Dewar MacLeod, and

strike last year,
eat Bd -one other to arrange for the Stu] Mur¥ay’s arrest calls to mind that deute? \Cauretl Danes.

| Thursday in 1 sete meeting this| of Dr. Levine, fellow in geophysics :
\year. They will ‘meet next on Sun-| at Toronto University last month, 4. Approved a motion that the
na} day, Oct. 20th. — concerning which Dr. H. J. Cody, proceeds of the first home game of
_ “Gentleman George”, as is evident,| head of the department remarked, the Dalhousie Football team be
bears no resemblance to the creature|“We had no idea that Levine had) donated to the Red Cross.
who appeared above his name by/|the slightest connection with the| 5. Approved an amendment to the
mistake last week. Communists.” ‘He was a mathema-| above to the effect that all Dal stu, tical genius and did not seem at all| dents be charged 25¢ admittance to
the first home game.

interested in politics. As near as
we know, he seems to have picked! 6. Discussed plans relative to the
Year Book,

it up when he was in England.”
One member offered the only bit
of matter destined to entertain.

McGILL, MT. ALLISON. When a representative of the DalAND SASKATCHEWAN ss housie band appeared on the scene.
TRAIN GIRLS FOR WAR and asked for a grant to take the

organization to the game at Truro

While the women students of Dal-|jast Saturday, the distinguished
housie are sticking to their knitting | Councillor suggested that this was
and Red Cross Work, word comes/a fine idea, for it would kill two
from at least three other Canadian|pirds with the one stone—give the
campuses that coeds are joining the! Band (?) an opportunity to practice
Male students in some type of uni-|/ for this Saturday’s game and get
versal training. From. Mount Allison} rid of them for at least one day.
reports state that all coeds will train
in Auto Mechanics for four hours
each week. The McGill Daily carries the following item, about coed
training at that university:

“According to the schedule which
becomes operative on October 21st,
all women of the University will be
enrolled in a two-fold training program. EmphasiS is placed on the
need for health and physical fitness
in time of war, and, accordingly provision is made for a fundamental
course in physical training. Linked
with this is a carefully worked out
program in first aid and home
nursing.”

Shidoait Council

= ase ‘losse A cad.
In First Meeting

Pa gy Arklie, Douglas
ee _Bected In Close Balloting

 

With typical Dalhousie enthusiasm

 

the Students was held Thursday evening, October 22nd, in the Men’s
Common Room. Heard at the be|ginning of the meeting was a discussion of the request “Will students |
get their ten dollars’ worth this year |
in view of the restricted use of the
gymnasium?” The answer to this
was another question: “Will the
Council have sufficient money to
cover the year’s activities in view of
the slightly reduced registration?”

. was voted President of the
Arklie and

 

   
  

Ratt ee \Arklie, the ine to be
a i i _ elected, murmured “All I can say is
Deo you”. Said Vice-President
r ees, a million”.

ae ‘ “my re ”

ting was concluded har
sly ° hen Mr. R. Musset told

sh tha Aig did not turn
Le- e

  

  

 
 

  

  
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
   
  
   
     
     
       
       
       
     
       
   
         
     
       
      
         
       
       
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 

   
  
 

the members| of other classes
d come to see the fun—their
_ wh iz was exemplary.
The new Frosh president is 19 and
a ‘product of Cape Breton. He attended — “Sydney Academy, became
| President of its Athletic Association,
and in 1938 graduated with his

Ra Wt is
ay junior matric. Last year rheumatic

 
     
 

HOW ABOUT ONE PACKAGE
* OF CIGARETTES?

Surely every. student could afford at least the equivalent of
ONE package of cigarettes! Lessen the nails in your coffin and
help EIGHTEEN organizations—
IN WAR AND IN PEACE. The
Community Chest must “carry
on’. .

 
    
     
       
   
  
   

 
 
  

  

  

ang being a ‘Cape Bretoner he didn’t stay
down, His election to the leadership
bot his class may well be just the |
-_errnning of his college career.

~ WHAT’S GOING ON

we a meeting of the Dalhousie
- Medical Society, held at the Public
4 Clinic on Tuesday evening, the folhi a ane officers were elected:
| _ President—Lewis Woolner.

_ Viee-President—Jack Woodbury.

Secretary—Maurice Veniot.

_ Treasurer—Gordon MacKenzie.

Major R. V. Hogan, acting adjutant and chief of the Dalhousie C.
Et! GO) T.C., Dean Grant and Professor
a R. J. Bean addressed the meeting.

    
  

 

making a ball that you'll never forget. Watch for announcements! «

NOTICES
An S.C.M. general meeting will
be held on Thursday, Oct. 17, at St.
Andrew’s Hall at 8 p.m.

Council Dance

 

Opens Season

S.C.M. Fall Camp is to be held
this year on the week-end of Oct.
26 and 27.

 

A large and enthusiastic crowd
saw what a fine effort was made by
the student governing body to open
a successful social season in the
gym. on Tuesday evening. That hop
proved an incentive to the students
to let their hair down a little and
enjay themselves this winter during
| the intervals of war-talk and mili|tary preparation. The Students’
Council dance committee included

 

Professor Burns Martin is conducting a series of ten lectures on
Shakespeare’s plays. The meetings
are held at King’s College on Monday evenings at 8.15 o’clock.

Several plays will be read, namely,
“Macbeth”, “Henry IV, Part I”,
“The Tempest” and others. Admission is open to all college students

e Pelbieet ane DANCE—

“ .  Let’s all go to the Gym. to-nite
(Oct. 11) and celebrate with the
_ smart-looking Class of ’44 as they
; > Ph atneutlh their claims on the
eo Fight to be dubbed: Frosh.

Bs ihe: fine dance music of Jerry
No Regimented Plan

Naugler, refreshments and noyel- 7
(aa 7, on the payment of a $1.50 enroll- Dewar MacLeod and Ruth MacBs alee Nuale taba ment fee, payable at the meeting. For Dal Women Unless Quarrie.
antage of the good time that the | a Mee eet By Demand Says Stanley
m. can offer for $1.25 per |THE COMMERCE SOCIETY—— i i
Bary le. The initiation, Aaya bile S There will be no regimented MOOT COURT MOOTED

plan of training for the girls of
Dalhousie unless they demand it”
declared Pres. Carleton Stanley
when questioned by the Gazette
as to the possibility of Dal following other educational institutions
in training coeds en masse for war
work. Pres. Stanley pointed out
that Delta Gamma had been very
active during the last year to help
(Continued on page 4)

_ The Commerce Society met on
Wednesday, Oct. 8th, for the purpose
of electing managers for three
teams representing the Society in
interfaculty sport competition.
Elected were:
Hockey Manager—Jack Chappell

r tot Softball Manager: Jack Matthews

€ C from the Law school} Basketball Manager— David Doig
‘spare the horses (we're not} A large meeting is planned for

he oe ; when if comes to the near future.

Open season on law students begins next Tuesday, when Alex Hart
and Bob Frankish start off the interminable discussions of Dal’s farfamed Moot Court., The subject is
the notorious case of Princess
Yousouposs v. Metro-Golwyn-Mayer.
The case promises to be a sensation,
featuring the usual wit and wisdom
of Dal’s law students.

 

Law Ball
. i the Law Ball

eld Oct. 25th. To those who
tothe university we tell you

 

    

a Eat y ‘aula x

the first meeting of the Council of| students and that it was felt that a more direct gift be given.

Glee Club Plans

 

Among the items of business were| people are not only determined to | tT!OUS

1. Approved payment of $75 to

 

 

toi Pi tel esa es pleted isi ake Ree eet SE BM Fer ht a tlle
a, hear * th, 4 ai : i a) eS lan es ee 1, yl: “re Ve
* Z bg } : , pone rs 4 a“ b
j ® 7 ee >
4 ‘ A. Ae
4 Pook F A a
a a Mat ye
MoO? oe ia
Aa ees fk
¥ @ty tet ee eae
: A 4 &
Cri at 5 Nee
7 é ig 7 P
‘4. | hoe
ae te ws
; fee ra
= ae
a a a :
ts 3
ay 1
\ — My
é ha es
oT be fi
ge a
ae ean
«FD
i

PaaS ON ti Rate N oho ae ee

8 1
yf

 

ae in ie Game
Red Cross Will Get Proceeds

The first game of the season on the Tigers’ Home grounds
will be a benefit game, Dalhousie vs. Navy, and students will be
charged 25c entrance fee, all of which will go to the Red Cross
Society, as Dalhousie’s first contribution this year.

The Council decided on this method of making a donation
at their meeting held Oct. 4. It was explained at the gathering
that direct grant from the Council would not be felt by the

Admission charge for outsiders will be the usual rate.

aS

 

> It is expected that the proceeds
from those Navy men and others
\who are expected to attend the
| match will cover the various exexpenses in connection with the

Fresh Show and
game and that the remainder will

P re-Xmas P lay | ‘be that which is collected from the

The Chemistry Theatre was filled , Student body.
on Tuesday with the most enthusi-| The game itself promises to be a
astic and talented class to turn up #004 one with the Tigers having a
at Dalhousie for a long time. These | VETY ee ea eae a

present the black an
put on a bang-up Frosh Show, but | 80!d boys have a resounding 8-0
to put it on in record time. From a| Victory behind the from their game
survey of the class, the powers- Plans heirse: The team has had a
that-be have decided that a musical) Week’s practice since then and is
show will be the order of the day. Bie AES eee. eee
z avy’s strength is not to be under
HRS Glee ee BIBER: 50 organize | «timated although they sustained a
another play before Christmas. .Re- defeat from Acadia last Saturday. ¥
hearsals will run at the same time The beeRiasenl ities Gouin fees heen h, a
as those of the Frosh show, and the having regular practices and ifiter- wee
play will be presented early in <a

November. The executive hopes that ai Tee aac oo
all the old troupers who have trod y P

the boards in days of yore will he | Squad and are drawing on the best

bn hand for’ the éry-oute: ithe’ prac- | football players in the whole navy
establishment here to opose the home
tice of putting on a three-act play!

before Christmas has been dropped
in the past few years, but it will be)
a worth-while habit to reinstate.

 

As. this is the first game of the
season a large turnout is expected.

Tek “eiiditien ta Havt |The Dal band will be in attendance
sheet a 2 a . oe a) pels to give aided entertainment. Since
sgh z Ee Bente - they have worked out most of their
University, we are fortunate to have! ,. "4. ;
a new influx of musical ability Peon Os Sees Sete pees we
which will probably call for a musi-| erate ASOT Eee oe Tae OTIS.

issi is a ch
cal comedy after Christmas, in addi- ie ee ee ae cae
tion to the Bennet Shield Plays. 1

| part in a small way to help the Red
The Glee Club will welcome any | Cross in its work to alleviate suffersuggestions in the choice of plays) ing at home and overseas.
for the year, but will reserve the | ——q —\——________-___
right of making the final decision; intend to enter the Bennet Shield
regarding all plays to be staged| Competitions this year are requestunder their sponsorship. The presi- ed to submit their plays for apdents of the various societies which | proval as soon as possible.

)
:
)

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

(henceforward known as DIP O)

Seeing the spectacular success of the Gallup and Fortune
pools in the United States, Dal students have been howling for
something on that line. Here it is.

Should Co-eds Take Training?

The first question asked was whether or not co-eds should
be required to take some form of military training similar to
that at McGill. 39% thought they should, 46% came back with
a resounding “No”, while the rest were split pretty evenly
between ‘“won’t say” and “don’t care’. Most thought it would
be largely wasted time.

Should Intercollegate Sports Go?

Next the inquisitor wanted to know whether Intercollegiate
sports should or should not be banned for the duration. 43%
thought men’s sports ought to be banned, 57% that they
shouldn’t. One mug would ban all but parlour rugby. As for
banning girls’ sports, there was a 100% thumbs down. No girl
thought that girls’ intercollegiate sports should be cut out, all
of them wanted the men’s drc opped.

What’s Wrong With Dalhousie?

The third question asked was, What’s wrong with Dalhousie? 36% didn’t see anything wrong, 14% say: “nothing
that couldn’t be remedied’”’, 7% blamed it on the lack of college
spirit, 7% on the faculty, 7% said the place is “decadent”. Trest wouldn’t say, except one who cracked, ‘““What’s right with
it?” What’s right with this column?
*
We would appreciate comments on this column and suggested

of * *

questions. Next week the poll will be much larger. Address to the
Editor.
; Fd — , es Ba, i
; fend Tite oe ' aaciaeenceiia Paget —
UE. res ob a SE ‘ide BOOK eee’ al ae
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
      
   
    
 
   
   
    
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   

 

 

_B 4538
B 9586
B 4421

B 9746
B 3148
B 1815
B 9745
B 1049
B 1917
B 3447

oe
Pisa Fo py ae ee Sit Seale
Kondo t--* <8
Sk i a
Fg tea See ee
Tet... 3a A ee

pe” RS ie
4
4-1“ §
ore MARY J OHNSON

- - 
aa _kbroRrontat STAFF
ae i Jean einstein, Bill Ferguson, Albert Wilansky
; ame ean Phinney, Mary weiss |

a ies ev esities’ stale: in the presenti conflict is quite as
it as that of individuals in the universities. In the nations
agains 1 we are fighting, abstract intellectual activity has;
anis] ed. orb is no healthy scepticism, no free speculation
_ only: ere: produce “the political soldier”.
nfortunately, however, there is a group in every nation
im Rss ete of privilege and influence is endangered by these
Bs ts ements of scepticism and speculation so essential to the
a _‘fetive functioning of the university. In an emergency situaee such as a country at war faces, the necessary centralizan of authority and the fear complex may be taken advanre of by this group to trammel the institutions of, learning,
si bly in the interests of national safety, actually in the
. of personal privilege. When this threatens, the unism must concern itself with practical politics. Discussion
tof these: matters should not be a constant feature of these
columns, but when they are engaged in it will be with the above
ration in, mind.

 
    

   
   
 
 
    
    
 
   
   
   
 
 
    
   
 
 
  
  
  
   

 
  
    

 

LOOKING UNDER THE WRONG BED

at a te could go Fascist is a suggestion which, al
} has been made by men of some political perspicuity,
een taken seriously by the mass of Canadians.
ince the collapse of France, a country which was
4 in many ways more democratic than Canada,
is. net to be dismissed so lightly. The danger is
} h in. the small, vociferous group of
uC me in a speaen trend in the appli
 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

nuary, - ne L a i ets: eminent English
1, warned ‘in, the New Statesman. and |
rowth of native fascism” in this|
inted out at that time that “academic freela does not mean what it does in England,” that
nents of. -such_ men as the Attorney-General of On, who. boasted of having 1,100 men armed and in uniform
orce the law were giving the entirely false impression
Canada must be full of disloyal citizens, and that the
ery of repression, first turned against obscure communis “now seems to turn towards intellectuals and other
-_ That such measures, woidént locally as well as in Ontario
and Quebec, can be prejudicial not only to liberty but to the

unity and effectiveness of the nation at war is suggested bv

e record of the French debacle. Not long before Parliament
-prorogued in Canada this summer, a letter written by H. B.
y cholas of Oxford to the Manchester Guardian was read to

he e of Commons by an opposition member. Its bearing
: n the situation here is Mutts evident. Especially in view of a

 

 
 

 

 

  

   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  

'

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
  

v saying and whieh file not yet been said nearly clearly or loudly
ye enough, nor should one’s profound sympathy for the plight of France
i o deter one from saying them; for upon their realization depends not
(only our own safety but algo France’s ultimate recovery.
In the first place one does not need to be a marxist to recognize
ah the engineering of the French debacle a clear case of triumph of
ro the interests of a class over the welfare of the nation. Once again,
i M as in Germany during his struggle for power, Hitler has been able to
~ count. on the support of that group which prefers property to denocracy. The point for us to notice is that France was betrayed |
. ot by the forces of the left but by the leaders of the right. The
fifth column was not found, where we had so often been told to
4 look for it, ‘among the refugees to whom France gave shelter and
| whom her government now shamefully surrenders; it was not found
>in the working class suburbs or among the socialist leaders; it was
_ not even found among the communists, who will now have in France’s
ionment such a full harvest for their reaping. It was found,
re Franco properly first. attributed it, among the financiers, the
__ industriz sts, the appeasers and the clericals.
(A ‘Their success was facilitated by two factors which especially
concern us. One was the decline of parliamentary morale and iny for which Daladier must bear so much responsibility, the other
sorship of press and public opinion which cast the country into
of ea ieee and buried the government in a

  
   
    
 

      
 
   

  

  
 
 

  

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

   

These factors alone rendered worthoe pomete at workers. —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ae: vital to. Rene: were
Rome-Berlin-Tokio axis from
ade its prevention impera
an ae is at nee as pow
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eee

SNA ee
=~") Ane): a

nt i
y, ii fe
mM to

sends 300
ween CArOnaL °S1.00 will
ar or 1
send either 1 1b of OLD VIRGINIA
Ppa pines or) 1s eer
U \PORAL FINE CUT (with V
papers)to CanadiansservinginC.A.

overseas only.
$2.50 sends 1,000
cigarettes to an individual or unit.
Address **Sweet Cans,*'
P.O. Box 6000, Montreal, P,Q.

NONE BUT THE BRAVEST

oO! 1ard is the lot of the lads who announce

The news of the day, and perforce must pronounce
Those tongue-twisting names which some of the races
Have used in profusion to designate places.

Take China (it’s simple the Japs will agree!)

And try out your tongue on Kwei-Chow and Hung-tze,
Or if that’s too easy, then give these a fling:
Ning-hsia, Tai-yuan, Ping-yang and Shiu-king!

We journey to Poland, where, just) to confuse,

They throw out the ae’s, io’s and the u’s.

But the lads of the air, with the greatest of ease,
Tripped lightly through Przemysl, and also Bydgozscz!
And then for good measure you have your choice of
Czestochowa or Chova, Lemberg or Lvov!

And so Northward Ho! to the land where the sun
May rise at eleven and set about one,

Where the Finns in the forest are silent and dinkey,
From old Helsingfors or from modern Helsinki,
Where they stymied the Russians at Abo (Turku)
And also at Viborg-Viipuri to you!

So off with your hats to the lads who announce

The news of those names which are hard to pronounce,
Then girdle your snickers and don’t write a letter
Unless you are sure you could do a lot better,

But offer them orchids and give them the chair,

For none but the bravest deserveth the air!

HELEN HAWTHORNE.

Lr

“Frosh must not,

hel

Frosh must not!

_| =r

 

But who are we to express opin
_ October u, 1940

‘Aren't you out of place?”’
“Sweet Caps are never out of place.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

that brain fag could have been|warming thought in these days of
avoided by condemnation of the elusive “eleven” into “trio” which could
be warbled in Tonic Sol-Fa fashion,
Frosh must not,

green if not great beginnings is
that there will be another year, and
then — but we must not indulge in
In the meantime we

 

anticipation.
are here, timidly but truly, for bit
ions, or even have them? Our heart-|ter or sweeter, the Frosh!

 

AUTUMN POLITICS BLOMIDON
The little leaves are all astir, The sun descends in solemn
They’d spent the year a-growing, splendour,

Wreathing in amethystine light
The basaltic brow
Of brooding
The West Wind came, all soft and| Blomidon.
calm;
He stirred up such a rumpus! Frowning,formidable,
“At last,” they whispered, “now at|Towering, terrible,
last Grandly, ineffable,
The Wind has come to get us!” |Vast and alone—

Their stationary work was done,
They felt they must be going. |

 

“The arid soil beneath our stems |Tauntingly timeless,
Will take our lives a forfeit, Ancient yet ageless,

But this dear tree on which we grew Constant and deathless,
From our dead selves will profit.”| Aeons in stone.

The West Wind wandered lazily Blomidon,
Across the Autumn forest, As lilac glow’
He plucked a few leaves here and! Dissolves in dusk,
there, On thine enigmatic face
Left all he could ignore best. Is infinite wisdom, dormant,

proud,
The remnant thousands rose to cry,|Shrouded in the silence of the
“Why won’t the West Wind hurry 7 centuries.

The time has come for action now; —Anon.
Must we prolong our worry?” Nl ic hog lhe een mee
FROSH REFLECTIONS
“We'll send a protest, duly signed, (By One of Them)
To our great Lord Protection.
We’re weary of palavering—

What we leaves need is action!”

We are Frosh. In plain and fancy
language we -have been told of the
lowly status which is ours by Right
of Regalia, and we conclude that we
are but cumberers of the campus.
Our sole consolation is to realize
that it is a matter of mere months
since some of these to-be-revered
upper classmen were in our brogues.

We note that, the approach of
Winter notwithstanding, the grass
around us is as green as we are, and |
had we a wish above all others it|
would be that we could, chameleonwise, turn into the selfsame shade |
of green and be rendered invisible |
i\when a Senior slouches into view. |

“To ‘speak’ or not to ‘speak’ ”. The |
question is decided for us by the ab“We must take care—we can’t afford |Sence or presence of the green bough |

To antagonize the masses. (we mean “bow”) in the shade of
If they want action, that we'll give:|the Adam’s apple. If the former, we

“We'll pacify the classes.” clear the throat and hope our nervous salutation will issue in a nor- | Think of
“And, furthermore,” the gold one| mal voice and not in a reedy squeak. |

said, A bow?— We grin sympathetically | Th

“The North Wind is our best bet.|and pass on. | e
We'll put him into action now— The Freshettes find the Irish top-|

See the results that he’ll get.” | knot doing marvels for their appear- Green Lantern

. . ance. Some of them look like kitten-|
The leaves all rustled happily, ish Khorus Kids on Karousal, and

The day “old North” took over. |others need only the aid of a stiffish
He tore them from their lofty limbs,| breeze, or the remains of a Model)

The dark, rich earth to cover. “T” engine, to start them heaven- |
ward.

The placards are a positive pro
leaves— tection against any future resent
And new ones fill their station. |ment should) we ever enter a peniThey rushed to feed the Mother | tentiary as other than signers of

+. Tree— the Visitors’ Book; and as for the

Died in self-preservation. “Rules” — the stock of matches in

MONA REILLY. | parental pantries has been depleted
to meet the demands for “light-ups”
(do we have to “listen”, too?)

To offset this, however, there is
an undoubted saving on the Cupid’s
bow gadgets. A fortnight’s conservation of lipstick, laid smear on

|smear, would cover one forty-fourth
sa of No-Frosh Land (Senior Walk to
And calls his hungry family in; you), from which we turn our eyes
He grins, and bows a friendly bow; |lest oun feet dangerously dash o’er
“So sorry, this is my garden now.” | j¢
Ogden Nash.

The West Wind heard them. He exclaimed,
“These leaves have not discovered
That I can never be deposed
Till my support be severed.”

HALIFAX

 

“The Golden Sun, the Silver Moon
Approve my long-drawn blowing.

If I- please them these little leaves
Must Keep content with growing.”

 

“T don’t approve of hasty moves;
TU keep things going slowly.”
But, Silver Moon and Golden Sun,

Beware of matters lowly.

After any Show
or

 

Before any Meal

 

 

Now they are gone — those little

THE JAPANESE

How courteous is the Japanese;

He always says, “Excuse it, please.”

He climbs intohis neighbor’s garden

And smiles, and says, “I beg your
pardon,”

He bows and grins a friendly grin,

$1.00 A COUPLE

Humbly we venture the opinion

SS"

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE

The National Fish Company, Limited

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

 

Farmers

Chocolate Milk

Is Stimulating ...It Peps You Up!

 

NOVA SCOTIA

om

 

WELCOME
TO
DALHOUSIE

CL)

43 Spring Garden Road

 

 

 

Canadian Youth Hostel Dance
Friday, October 18th

SSS

JERRY NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA

At Y.M.C,A., MORIARTY HALL
PROCEEDS FOR THE RED CROSS

SS"

Refreshments

 

 

 

 
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
 
  
    
  
 
 
   
   
    
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
   
   
   

' ~We are happy to announce that
he | Penny is back in circulation again.
a oe she a grass widow or a gay
) ‘divorcee? Not while the grass
i poids, by Gosh.

* * *

oF . a In the absence of last year’s
} ys) flame, “Say-it-with-flowers” Roberts
ey i has diverted his attention to other

ee channels. Has Adelaide joined a re
* ££ #
_ We note with concern that “Mae”
- Johnson has moved to the Hall.
_ Possibly the long morning walks
Dy _ were wearing her down—or was it

* * %

We wish that “Lightning” MacKenzie would settle down. His erai ‘tatic romances are becoming so
‘involved as to even make the little
o Pig dizzy. We wonder when he'll
be starting his Date Bureau?

* *- ;

| The Double Cross for the week is!
a awarded to Daphne, who spurned a
poor but proud youth in favor of the

* #

Shirreff Hall has been subjected
we hear. It
ae ‘seems that Phi Halts Theta, almost

Ba. en masse, arrived Sunday evening,

ee eee

i _ Ken Archibald believes in divid-|ed and don’t be dogmatic. He has

£ *&

vir Ry

| Kissy Cameron does it again —
- imagine anyone daring to call
“Ross” Graham a freshman!

* € &
| + Seandal is rife on our fair campus
i er ~~ we hear that one of the more
ardent English students — another
i, Bi tlonde Helen — was locked in the
sae | Arts Building one day last week, in
, Hf company with one of the more atee move profs.

Be * *& co

a We note that where Jimmy Wata RS 'gon’s company last year was wont
Me to be blonde, this year it'is luscious |
Ae Be and brunette—and curiously enough |
PD - it lives in exactly the same place
' | as the blonde! Dangerous ground,
there, Jimmy.

oJ

f
¢
ts ,

* * *

| The little Pig expects to have
_. more of interest for his readers ne>
week, what with two dances this
week. So—watch your step, chum!
* % *
Very conspicuous by his presence
at the Students’ Council binge on
Tuesday night was none other than
_ Wubber McTunnelled, with guess
what tucked under his arm? ‘No

a, less than that blonde package of |
high explosive that panicked the}.

campus a few years agone.

THEME [: MUST BE
TOMORROW AT 12

me What is the matter with me? Am
+ Isleepy? Do I lack ambition? Or
’ am I just lazy? I am lazy, I know,
because every man is as lazy as he
dares to be. Whether he dares to be
very lazy or just a little lazy depends upon his ambition:
How about my ambition? I reach
out for quite a big thing—a degree.
The struggle to earn it will increase
the power of my intellect to grasp
’ facts and do creative thinking based
_ on them. I want all that. I plan
_ what Pll do with it. But I forget
' that a big thing is made up of a
_. myriad of little things—the refusal
of a thousand little temptations;
numerous revelations, in small
ae eee: of a strong will.
Besides my class this afternoon
Bice is a bea-u-tiful movie —the
_ talk of the town, the hit of the sea| son—and what happens?
I should begin that theme tonight,
fe) but blag is so er ioe

a

First the anomalies. (Only a little,

| Or alternately, try standing around to the foul

J eri ts “aE Pape Vian ih a eae Aa Tea ioe ie ie
t eT} | . <7 mi 7 i) 29 r { x ia
j PE ee ai ar | a nn ak ~ wu Mare 11 Selva a te Fr
: r a \ a yy MG ua sf me we g Oar if ‘ il ah 5 t my 4 My ij es Xi ib 4

te), Marae Ln
i

is

Bee fs

Erin ae ists a a Pat DALHOUSIE GAZETTE —

a

PRO ot GALELOM OR (CO MGE) 0
COARSE-ONE OR TSR ER ESE SHSSE ST ESS Tats a =i FSSESeSSSSSTTE
COME OUT, COME OUT, a

WHEREVER YOU ARE_— © nennne Bie gk «

Wilbur P. Fizzleque was still busy ho L

in the gymnasum. Under his Column

No. 5 disguise he had employed edi oO S Ww O
will-o-the-wisp tactics to lure Blurbie
Stewpot out onto the roof. “Here I
be Blurbie,” he cackled from underneath the latter’s black nightshirt.
“Watch me do a bit of eavesdropping”; and with that our hero contracted his columnar structure and
went clattering down the drain pipe |
to land on the back seat of Pickle-|
lpadown, te provuer | the subject) con Pete’s bicycle, on which Rufus |
matter, we It tell, ats cree Since Rayne was viciously executing figure
you fellows are so dull, I’m going to haiphtanabout the quod: Rufus Rayne,

tell the lads ee are sh ee the Red Shadow of a dolt, had just |
into’ this faculty something about) tumed from learning about John

whom they are up against. (We do °!Milkman in English Toot, having
not claim: to discuss only the most spent the summer under the Chem.
Fe err oe, eet eiratey a mR Die desk from which uproarious laughter
shot, need feel badly if left out.) provoked by professor Binnet’s ares
had aroused him. “Wilbur my boy”)
‘he crooned, “I have great. news for
Well, now, there’s the Dean. At your filthy Pig Sty. Kissy Cameron |
least there was a moment ago. I i, trying to make the football team.”
don’t see him now. But that’s the «spe and who else” retaliated Fizgreat thing about the Dean: nobody | zleque and screamed off in a jealous} — 4
sees him unless they bring along 4) pa56 to inform Burning Gallstone. | WEBSTER MACDONALD, B.A.

fish pole and promise not to grouse. Talldouekty Galtstone,. oblivious | First Year Law

 

C’est la guerre. The phrase was
first brought to our notice by Dr.
Mainland. Maybe it’s the reason
why Med students are so interested
in their work that it’s no longer possible to write dirt about them. In
other words, if youse guys want the

 

 

off par, hardly abnormal.)

 

plot brewing over in This week we introduce to you |
the Health Clinic waving a cheque Sherrif’s Haul, was busy planning | the Vice-President of the Students’
blank and murmuring, “Who do ae embezzlement with Hateful Clut-| Council, that versatile personage, |
pay?” Rapid results guaranteed. | 915.5 while his faithful troup of|“Wubber MacTunnelled”. Webbie|

The Secretary and the first man trained tigers clustered about the/ first saw the light of day in Kentyou meet in lectures is Prof. Bean, beical posts listening to Blimp | ville, Nova Scotia. It was hére he
He is recognizable by : (a) instrue- McTwitchie’s account of how he beat|started his academic career, later
tions as to personal hygiene; (b) | 'back Caledonia single handed last| furthering his’ studies in Montreal |
best tailored, half-length lab. coats;| year and carried the ball to the| and Kings County Academy. In the|
(c) a large Buick, and (d) anything wrong end of the field in a wrinkle | fall of 1937 he came to Dalhousie

 

Bi penveloped in (to borrow: from a fel-| else you think of. ‘in his neek. Seeing the red, bulbous} with an Entrance Scholarship as a

The first time you saw Dr. Main-| glow off Fizzleque’s nose approach-| student in Arts, and on May 14,

- would aleohol give off a green mist? land you were surprised at the ing they swarmed panic-stricken|1940 he received his degree with

youthful appearance. Don’t be fool- pee Major HE Dera dugout honors in Public aoe

                                                            

 

lots of experience in catching UP) free gas masks with each five sea Laws
| with people who don’t mind their | cup of coffee. “This year’s fresh- | Webster’s abilities are many and
range of variation! | men don’t taste any better in the| varied. In a literary field he has an
While we’re in the Anatomy de-' coffee than last year’s,” the gloomv) outstanding record; first. year as
partment, the hard-working chap in|fellow was murmuring, “I don’t) editor of the King’s College Record,
the room on the right (the patient’s | think I boil them long enough.” second year winner of the $200
tight) is Dr. R. L. deC. H. Saunders,| Completely unnerved by his chum’s| “James DeMille Essay Prize, and
which stands for a lot of names) curious behaviour, the Red Shadow} last but not least, Editor of the Daltacked on a rather short subject. [of a Dolt tossed down four homo-| housie Gazette for the year 1939The shortness is compensated by | helchers and a Mickey Finn and pro-| 1940. This year he is looking after
vitality and a pleasant exterior that) oeeded forthwith to the depths of|the Students’ Directory.
won't “pick away” even under pres-|the pathological laboratory where| 1p the field of sport Webbie ranks
sure of persistent Anatomical dumb-| the filthy fifteen were huddled to- hich. | During the last two years he
ness. (We speak from experience). gether under a canopy of yellow/has more than capably played on
Ha rine | smoke. Wriggling along crab-wise| hoth the senior rugby and the senior
That ends the anomalous section; |across the slimy floor Rufus eX-| hockey teams. Badminton is another
now for the abnormalities, or, the tended a weird and quivering ear) sport in which he excels. In boxing
clinical side. ‘toward the gathering, etching the | he displays the ability of knowing
Clearly you are all bursting to} proceedings on an old skull with a! ‘how to ‘throw his punches’, and he
hear about Dr. R. P. (Patterson) ‘basin of blood filched by Wetty Dry | |is far above average as a wielder of
Smith, but we don’t want to spoil | from a cadaver on the third floor) the tennis racquet.
him for you, so we'll just remark|for the purpose of reproducing the; 4s 4 swashbuckling Romeo in the
graphically and grotesquely in pass-|meeting in the Da Lousy Gazoot. | tragical farce of “Romeo and Juliet”
ing, that he is the Fuhrer of a move-| President Gorge Coarse-one’s in-|,. pyt on by King’s College last
ment to institute purity of HRCuEREL PTET remarks were droning on year, Webbie’s talents will never be
and language in the student mind,,|in a monotone, completely blanked- forgotten; and neither, we venture
that he makes a hell of a lot of out by the chink of yellow metal] ,, say, will his talents as an offnoise when he lectures so that you ‘which the remaining fourteen had| stage Romeo.
can hardly sleep; thut he invariably| heaped up in a pile on the table) another great triumph was the
.

fives the boys their money’s worth, | \before them, Mugsy Rank-un having | Sadie Hawkins dance, where once}
(paging Dr. Stanley, lest he doubt), | ‘emptied the coffers for the occasion. lagain he stood out as the prizeand that, if you’ve heard the stories | “Gold, * muttered Skewer McLout as | winner for the evening, with his
more than six times before, you'd | he fondled a handful, “Gold,” | life-like impersonation of one of the|
better get someone to answer your|Screamed Roué MecGroggy and/ wogoons of Skunk Hollow.

name and stay home where you can| Wheezy Dishup, “Gold,” quavered J.| my, sum total of all this is —
do Pathology. \Rufe Fraser, pocketing ‘ten quid, | Webbie, a grand guy!

As a closing exercise, may we pre-_| “Just what the merry old band needs |

sent Dr. Corston (the twinkle shows | for 2 trip to Loonyburgh.” At this,

 

 

 

 

the good nature); Dr. Young (with flagrant departure from tradition | ‘ipl
a flourish, please); Dr. Weld (every the filthy ones, frenzied with the) The Gazette D
fs inch of him); Dr. Holland (re- ‘contemplation of pelf, settled on the | (Requirement: 30 Points)
member? you met him when you squealing bandsman in a cloud of| Antoft, 0.. Bel ee WE) 0"

had your physical); Dr. Taylor (sor- | Pagan ferocity, leaving on the table i
ry, girls, he’s married); Dr. J. W.|2 twitching sanguinous mass and nae te alge da on
MacKintosh (you can hear’ every turning with dripping jowls, jerked, Black, D. ico eager Si
fifth word); Dr. W. G. (Bill) Col- unsteadily in thé direction of the |Bureh, D. i MacKenzie, E.

| Armstrong, F, Lyall, D.

well (you can hear every word); Dr.| faithful Rayne. Burke, C. .... 2 MacQuarrie, R. 3
H. Benge Atlee (you can hear every} “Oh Milkman” wailed the radon Gahan,,J. ....25 Moore, M. ....
word before he says it); Dr. Mer-|youth, crying in vain for succour, | Corston, G. ... 1 Morris, E.

ritti (you separate the words: they |“Would thou wert present instead of | | Dalton, L

phrase Morrigon, J) \.
come too fast for me), and last, but|}me at this hour,” and fell swooning |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Davidson, G. .. 1 Mercer, A. ...1
not least, Dr. Ashby. into the arms of Minna McMean, | y oles Ob ila ss 2 Nicholson, P. . 2|
who had got the borrow of one of et ipa ic 5 Parker, S. .... 1|

the Nova Scotia Putter and Leap Pi s
Th re only od Gordon, GC, .s dace setcey, Goo. 2
ese are only odd moments, but Company’s obsolete rattler’s for the | Graham, aiden ES |, 6 |

ments which make or break me. of freshettes (not bad eh) for an ;
Graham, M. ,.: 5 Smith, C. .... 2
Classes have begun. I’m out for|outing and had steered her number Penis R > Smith. H °|
at least reputable marks at Christ-|1g py a* this juncture. “Up you go, Gays ee Soe PM

 

mas. Well, I’m not going to admit my bucko,” quoth Minna, hoisting ;
I haven’t the ability. I know I have|the even less conscious than usual | ony a mS a ee Ph a
if T use it properly. (That’s the idea | form among her cargo, and resumed H a Aye 8 Wolloch re ae a}
—bright boy!) Organize! her place at the helm, clanging off | e ome M. nee Peeve oo Tae
Work thoroughly and systematic-|toward the Haul, leading her timid aus
ally, and know when you have fin-|eohorts in the strains of “Wouldst
ished. Then forget about it for a-|but I could kiss thy hand, Red) fifteen break even? Who'll buy ees Raed yore
while. What ho! Pen, paper, books Payne.” year book? Who done this? Wait
.}and brains! Into the fray you go! Will Gallstone’s trained Tigers) till next week if you think this is
re NG G. M. B. break training? Will the filthy | bad.

. 1 Young, C.

 

 

: the year is made up of odd mo- purpose of taking this year’s crop Graham, D. 1 Roberts, C. ...22!

 

; Tere re a, 4 ; *
Ce yell Pen Pcs Met AL Us cota
oe tat et eR Re oD Ei Der .
sy a caeae fae hla St le oa “ ved
hae ¢ ii sve 3 Das A Hp ta ha re Pee 4 aural
* ’ wee ay Vv es Te Les ets We {
ri oe 4) f 4 a el ay
Seta. 7 fs ay ye Ae ae ie Nes) da * , Pal ie vi
si ee aa Re Una 8 ‘ Nhe ae Bat tay Maa PF
Ae] gti th Gwe eee i, : bapa esa’ + ee Sa eat) binty 1
Aine eee a, i Ne vean te ph de he ‘ Be Sabah (Ki Be P|.
a. 9 eA cp ae PU ee pa i Nien pees uy

   
    
  
 
   
  
  

 

Samemnon, sitting in his wooden hoss’,

Smoked Picobac to make the Trojans come across.

® Who would not—and does not—“go” for the rich,
ripe aroma of Picobac? And its nutty flavour is
equally enticing. It is the pick of Canada’s Burley crop
—always a mild, cool, sweet smoke. Students may feel
that the charms of the Iliad are professorially overrated; but not the charms of Picobac!

also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH - 15¢
1-LB, “LOK-TOP” TIN - 65¢

      
     
       
     
   
 
    
   
 
 
     
      
       
       
   

 

Ci\A Pil TiO

THEATRE - HALIFAX

Midnite Show Sunday
“Sing, Dance, Plenty Hot”
Ruth Carey — Johnny Downes

 

Continuous from 1 to 11

Today— Sat. — Mon.

Monday and Tuesday
“REBECCA”

and

“Sing, Dance, Plenty Hot”

Deanna Durbin — Mischa Auer
Sapee A pao

“SPRING PARADE”

ORPHEUS

: Today and Saturday

® Geo. Formby Bombing Halifax
with Laughs in

“TT’S IN THE ATR”

Also Showing at Special
Midnight Show Sunday, 12.05

 

Tues. -— Wed. — Thurs.
Vivien Leigh and

Laurence Olivier in

“21 DAYS TOGETHER” |

| Sunday Midnite Show
| Also Mon., Tues., Wed.

“South of Pigo Pago”

Francis Farmer ~ Jan Hall

CASINO

Starts Saturday, Oct. 12th

“Rangers of Fortune”
Fred MacMurray
Patricia Morrison

Albert Dekker

GARRICK

PICK OF THE PICTURES

SUNDAY, MIDNIGHT SHOW
with
“Boys From Syracuse”
ARiot of Laughs
Plus

‘Outpost of the Mounties’

 

Starting Wednes., Oct. 16th
“DULCY”

‘with Ann Sothern
Joan Hunter — Roland Young

Plus “The Golden Fleecing”’
Lew Ayres — Rita Johnson

SMILES

My lad, be wise, go Brylcreem-ize

Hair like a haystack always rates a laugh, yet it’s so easy to have
that well-groomed look, BRYLCREEM—

@ Keeps stubborn hair soft, in place @ Checks annoying dandruff

all day, but never ‘‘greasy’ and falling hair; avoids
@ Revitalizes the scalp, seniacoe embarrassment.

lustre and sheen to dry, lifeless @ Fights off baldness; encourages

hair. luxuriant hair growth.

Brylcreermnm is the Empire's first choice hair dressing tonic; over
18,000,000 tubes and jars sold yearly. Get the new 25c size tube
from your dealer today. For extra economy buy the big 50¢ tube
or jar. Money-back guarantee.

BE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING TONIC

No Alcohol—No Gum—No Starch—No Soap lide

     

 
  

uc It" is : wake |

] ea the coi activities

tickets will serve as admis
ry Dink an a. made at
a the season. As the com
rer mz game, which is a rele with Truro, will be the only

ne college field.

This point has been brought to the
tion of the Students’ Council,

Re

ey were of the perry that
i gt ee

| ae the Red Cross was Lin out beau fs funds are supposed to be
aE ntly lower this year, and anyway

; bite the $10 that was exVa them veer pene

Ue aa

igs . to one ticklish situation when the boys

io.
7 re
: .

"ple vers and
d to go ahead
: from her more exnce 07 : although it
xy turn out that the fifteen from
Hub will be dangerous late sea
“In view of the game here Saturyy Navy’s disappointing appear
against Acadia is an elixir. The
ee - boys i in blue certainly “did not live up
x to the reputation and extra practice

moe, that they were suposed to have had.
_. Although a new team, Aldershot
oh Hee aie and there should be

| at ars

i at &
, iM

*

es In regard to the no ee
yi é rts in wartime ruling, the action
of | the University of Alberta will be
ed closely by those sportsmen |
| i. campus who would like to
see limited smecrecneaiate competi
“The selene set-up leaves the most
opular game of the City League
_ entirely out of the picture, namely,
that between Dal and Acadia. This
. tara whether is is played at Stud
on Le or at Wolfville, always draws

   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

ae
2. largest crowd of the season.

ins titution is favorable to the idea
that Dal meet sete on the foot
ot dutertere with military train4 This point of view was clearly

s =e ohee sports for which

- rel Ea sy | |
ie For Dal

| Ane enthusiastic group of Dal and

enero supporters saw the Tigers

hand out an 8—O dish to the
»| Black-and-white Truro team. Our
boys showed up well on laterals and
pulled the pigskin neatly out of
every serum, but field-kicking was
wild on several opportunities.

Both halves were played well in‘to Truro territory, and it was surprising that it took so long before
Sig Neilson, Dal three - quarter,
nosed over the Truro line for the
first score. He had his opportunity
when the Truro defence relaxed for
a moment in the second half. After
a nice end run he was tackled by
Cummings in the corner, but had
enough speed packed in to boost the
Dal score.

Scoreless Half.

po

No tallies were chalked in the
first half, although the Tigers kept
their feet planted well on the Truro
side of the centre line. The Gold
and Black men were on the whole
bigger than the Truro team, who
bore the brunt of the casualties in
the game, and an even larger margin would not have been surprising.

Our second tally came at the end
of the last half. With a minute of
play left, Neilson started a flashy
run from behind the centre line to
Truro’s 20-yard line. There he was
downed by Flemming, but managed
to deliver the goods to McIntosh
who went over the line standing up.
Phillips converted and tied up the
score.

During the play there was only

in white made several thrusts at
e Da A near score resulted
when Vebber was,blocked on, an attempte ed clear behind the Dal line,
‘but the ball rolle dead before the
1 ‘oad make the try.

said cryptically: “Truro’s a
good team”. Trim George Hennebury refereed.
The Dalhousie band, Pans the capable baton of George Little, supplied the atmosphere for the game
with “O Canada” and some stirring
marches and also a few yells.
The lineup for the game was:
Truro — Flemming, fullback; A.
Theakston, Totten, Patillo, halves;
J. Theakston, Cummings, Kenyon,
O’Neill, three-quarters; Johnson,
Lyttle, Westaway, Matthews, Crawford, Neff, McDonald, forwards.
Dalhousie—Webber, fullback; McLeod, Burke, Jefferson, halves; Fiendel, MacIntosh, Forsythe, Neilson,
three-quarters; MclIvor, Sutherland,
Phillips, MacRitchie, Vail,; McKimmie, MacDonald, forwards.

Alberta Union

Object To
Sport Ruling

Edmonton.—The Students’ Union
of the University of Alberta is appealing to ruling abolishing intercollegiate sport which was passed by
the national universities conferences
at Ottawa, July 5, Jack Neilson, the
union’s president, announced.

Neilson, in a statement, contends |
the move was sponsored by eastern
universities where intercollegiate
Sports programs are more extensive; |
that the federal department of WAS
tional defence does not appear to be
opposed to continuation of intercol
SS

  

odi pa enting on the game Burnie,
13s. Tost | ee n

~
se = ° SS ee

ferent.
nearly all back. The male field has
| been depleted.
cherubs commonly known as H.L.C.

° : ,
Girls Sport.
It’s always a hard thing to tell
about girls’ sport when there isn’t

any. We have hopes however, that
there will be plenty.

of tournaments with city clubs. Of)
the freshette class we have noticed
that Desireé Keating and Pat Hollis
are good players, and we hope there
will be more like them.

It’s time that ground hockey is
getting started—any girls interested
please see Miss Wray as soon as
‘possible.

Bete is already well under
Ww.

the alumni last week and although
Dal was defeated 14-9, it was an improvement over last year’s 25-5.

There will be a tournament this 12.30
Thursday with the Alumni and Dal
out to defeat a combined team from
the Y.W.C.A. and Y.M.C.A. Marion
Moore is the manager, and all girls
interested are asked to see her.

The gym, tennis and golf lasses
for freshettes begin this Wednesday.
Miss Wray will be glad to arrange
for badminton classes if they are
wanted; see her about it. There will
also be classes for upperclassmen in
tennis and golf if those interested
will give Miss Wray their time
tables so these classes can be arranged.

Tournament

Is Cancelled

There will be no tennis tournament
this year according» to Blanchard
Wiswell, tennis manager of the
D. A. A. C. Only eleven players
showed any indication of entering
the matches that were to have been
played at an early date.

The tournament was proposed by
the D,A.A.C. to replace those which
were cancelled because of the ruling
of no intercollegiate sports. n former years Dalhousie has met Mount A
and other colleges in fall tennis
matches. Many of the players showed up well in the Eastern Canada
and P. EB. I. matches this summer.
Forbes Mountain and Phil Cole being
the stars. It may be a fell foundedI
timidity against meeting these stars
that has caused little interest to be
shown in the present proposed
tournament.

Interest has not altogether died,

every day and a number of frosh |
have shown interest in the game.)
Apparently there will be some in- |
terest next year with new talent)
being developed even if at present
the game is relatively dead.

Ground Hockey

Annual Shinney Classic
To Be Played Soon |

Some time soon the residents of:
South Street are going to be ap
 

A team was placed against)

 

 

 

 

|

 

however, as the courts are used Sunday:

2.
3.30
‘

F . - ‘ ol ‘ ,
i aia ¢—- - ---- Selita aeolele odes viendbene teal’ ana Se ee eee ee ee ee

New Schedule __
For Gym Is
Announced

As the large amount of time to
Intercollegiate tennis is of neces- be apportioned to the military trainsity cut out but there are rumors/ing program has

ent arrangement:

Monday:
9.00-12.30—Physical etuies
12.30- 2.00—Military training.
3.00- 5.30—Physical training.

5.30- 6.30—Alumni badminton.
6.30- 7.30—D.A.A.C.
7.30- 9.45—Military training.

9.45-11.00—Open period.

Tuesday:

9,00-12.30—Physical training.

3.00—Military training.

3.00- 4.830—D.G.A.C.

4.30- 6.30—Military training.

6.30- 7.830—King’s.

7.30-11.00—Basketball, Glee Club,
etc.

Wednesday:
9,00-12.30—Physical training.
12.30- 2.830—D.A.A.C.

30- 3.30—Miss Wray (class).
4.30—Open period.
5.30—Mr. Ralston (class).
6.30—Alumni basketball.

6.30- 7.30—Student badminton.
7.30- 9.45—Military training.
9.45-11.00—D.G. Ac.

Thursday:
9.00-12.30—Physical training.
12.30- 3.00—Military training.
3.00- 4.30—Student badminton.

aining.

4,305.30
                 

6.30- 7.30—Y.M.C.A,
7,30- 9.45—Military training.
9,45-11.00—D.A.A.C.

Friday:

9.00-12.30—Physical training.
12.80- 2.80—D.A.A.C. ©

2.30- 3.30—Miss Wray (class).
3.30- 5.30—Military training.
5.30- 6.30—Student badminton.

6.30- 7.30—King’s.

7.30- 9.45—Military training. .

9.45-11.00—Basketball, Glee Club,
etc.

Saturday:

9.00-12.30—Physical training.

12.30- 3,00—Military training.

8.00- 3.80—Closed.

3.30- 5.30—Military training.

5.30- 6.30—Student badminton.

6.30- 8.30—Alumni badminton.

8.30-11—Faculty badminton

(before Xmas only).

Partial use for military training.

No Regimented Plan—

(Continued from page 1)

in the essential war work that
they are capable of doing. He also
said that many of those students
whose homes are in Halifax are
connected with the Red Cross,
churches or some other service organization for the purpose of doing war work.

The President stated that other

palled as they see the erstwhile “he- | universities were adopting plans of
men” of Dalhousie pursued down the |concentrated training this year in
football field bya motley crew of; the absence of such programs last
the opposite sex brandishing clubs. | year.
They need have no worry, however, | demanded it, a program could be ar
He intimated that if the coeds

as it will only be the annual D.A.| ranged whereby the women of the

A.C. vs.
Hall ground hockey game.
Now this so-called classic of the

all-comers from Shirreff}|campus would have set periods of

war work or training.

This year those in the auxiliary

age is due to be sprung upon an un-| classes will receive four hours trainsuspecting university at some date | ing a week to make up a total of 110

in the near future.

When the last) hours for the year.

The O.T.C. will

ambulance cleared the field after!) receive about six hours or will make

last year’s shambles it was found
that by a technique of shin bruising
all their own. Butch Lawson and!
anaged to pull
the D.A.A.C. ‘arouay with a win.

This year it promises to be difThe Sherriff Hall girls are

                 

Those charging

 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
    
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
    
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
        
      
   
  
    
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
     
   
   
  
  
   
   
 

8-0

made drastic
changes necessary in the daily Gym
schedule, we publish here the pres
October 11, 1940

up about 130-140 hours during the
war. The O.T.C. will be instructed
in how to command men ‘in the
training periods of those taking the
basic military training. Approximately 600 men will receive training
here this” year.

This year it is expected that Delta
Gamma. will continue their program |
of first aid classes, knitting and
sewing. As yet no organization |
meeting has been held but one is|
scheduled for the near future. Dr.
Stanley stated that he thought the
| organization was perfectly capable
of going ahead with its last year’s
|program with possible extensions.

| Rooms will be’ available at Sherriff | Sons
| Hall for all the female students of | Diamond Merchants
the college to do work in odd hours. |

aera! , eee oe

SS eee
a SS)

 

Students’ requirements in jewellery and gifts are ready at

Birks. Just now a fine assortment of Pens and Pencils is
proving popular...
PARKER, WATERMAN
SHEAFFER and
EVERSH ARP

All Guaranteed

Henry Birks &

 

SAS

DAL OFF HOURS

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

—

——

/

 

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the
Seven Courses are admitted as GENERAL STUDENTS.

The Evening Classes are Held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 - 9.30 Tuition $5 per Month

 

 

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING
will be a valuable aid in future years.
ENTER ANY DAY. Tuition counts from date of Registration.

—

 

 

 
     
     
  

COME ONE - COME ALL TO
The Freshie-Soph

WHERE? IN THE GYM — WHEN? TONITE, 9 to 1

 

   

       
   
    
     
   
     
    
    
    

FOOD ...LOTS MUSIC ... NAUGLER’S

 

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

!

) Maintains a high standard of scholarship.

| Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classies, Mathematics
. Modern Languages and History.

| Graduate Courses, of ee standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Sc.

Arts and Science Faculty
|
|
|

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $1.60 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

    
 

| Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 

 

 

BEST MILK
CHOCOLATE
MADE

are informing the already husky Hall
team in the proper technique of
tripping .a person so that he has
several dozen kinds of compound
fractures when they pick up the
pieces and carry them away. This
is not to say that the females are
not gentle. They are in a murderous
sort of way.

Tha great contest is approaching
and we are picking the goal posts to
be the only thing standing when the
final welter of carnage has died
away.

tation of the rule to
Dal should not. play in
3 against any other unihere is a distinct differrpretation, and the out
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
      
    
 
 
  
  
   

legiate competition, and that student
unions were disregarded in the
matter.

Dr. W. A. R. Kerr, Alberta University president, said that since the
fa, where the point is| university had committed itself to
| wae be watched the ruling it could not sanction conWet tinmetion of the sports.

 

ees epitaph for Hitler’s
rae Merc “This is oe my

ns

 
