    
   
   
     
    

    
   
 
     
   

F me murmurs present some time

aie # 4
7) 2) i.

which could have been

have now changed to definite
palpitations and the air is charged
with a feeling of recrimination. The
_ medical students feel that they are
_ being treated unjustly and, it seems,
_ they want some action. The writer,
here, is trying to portray the case

mt the students in an attempt to let
the college know why they want
‘ ‘ ic L

 

It should first be made clear that
the students do not object to anything which will help the cause for
which the empire is fighting, rather

 

they are anxious to do their utmost
to play their part in this war against
‘the barbarianism of ruthless dicta
torships. Many of the students belong to units of the Canadian army

and are on leave to attend class but

they resent the interference with
their work. They have been told, as
have all medical students, that they
can best serve their country by continuing their studies without interruption. As our inspiring leader,
‘Winston Churchill, puts it “the
civilian can best play his part by
going about his business with as
little interruption and delay as is
possible; in other words ‘Business as
usual’!

Up to this point, the students
co-operated with the University and
have faithfully attended parades and
and put their best into their training but now, three weeks before
examinations, they feel that they
should be left free to continue their
medical studies. Success in their
medical studies means a great deal
to most students as it represents the
realization of an ambition which they
have had with them for many years,
it also means a great deal to their
families, who are making great personal sacrifices to raise the money
to educate their children. If any
student should fail this session it
represents the loss of a good many

man-hours which the country is so
anxious to avoid in time of war and
it also represents the loss of money
invested
otherwise.

It is evident from the utterings
of most of the students that they
wish to serve their country. They
say ‘If the country needs doctors
then let us continue our work without interruption, but if they want
soldiers fhen let us join the army
and get into the battle. Let’s, however, do one or the other’.

To cite a specific example; in third
year medicine at Dalhousie, the student spends seven (7) hours a week
studying surgery, the gentleman
cadet spends eight (8) hours a week
training, and the trainee spends six
(6) hours a week learning rifle drill
and marching. Surely the army
needs doctors who are capable sur-|
geons and yet these students spend
more hours a week in military training than they do training as surgeons. A peculiar set-up, to say the
least.

It also appears on investigation
that the military set-up is not, as}
we were led to believe, the same in|
all Canadian Medical schools. At
McGill, for instance, third and fourth
year students, at this stage definitely
potential doctors, are exempted from
training but may train in the O.T.C.
if they so desire. Instead of six or
eight hours a week on parade they
have lectures two hours a week on
medical subjects of military significance. This is certainly a more farsighted policy than exists at Dalhousie.

When the original Compulsory
Military Service Act was passed it
was emphasized that the training of
professional men would not suffer.
but this is certainly not the case at
this university. The average medieal student did not in the past take
an average of eight hours a week for
recreation and it is certain that, regardless of official statements, the,
standard of the college must drop as
a result of this time lost. If the

lege is willing to see this happen
. students are not and, if memories
are correct, they are definitely in a
mood to make the college authorities take some action on the matter.

To sum up, every student ap
  

Femme by the writer has signified
his ness to give one month or].

Pal three months next summer for

 

but they resent the inter
' me follow an old say
    

 

VOL. LXXITII

 

Dal Debaters Downed at Mt. A.

A Successful Scholar.... Decision Close In First Foray

 

Two Big Hops for January
Budget Specialists and Engineers

 

Commerce Informal

The first big dance after the| the music and the price will be $3.50
Christmas holidays will be provided! per couple.

by the Commerce Society in the
Gym. The date, January 7th. The
price—$1.00 per ‘couple.

All that includes refreshments,|2y Moore,
Jerry Naugler’s Orchestra and a/Sydney; Jack MacKenzie, Halifax;

time—TIt is in the form of an extensionto your Christmas holidays. No
one can deny that the Commerce
students have juggled their figures
in an effort to give you such a great
dance without exploiting the contents of your ragged Xmas shopping
trouser pockets.

Boilermakers Ball

The Engineering Society announce
that a committee has been chosen
and that preparations are under way
for the second big dance of the new
year.

Their meeting was held on Tuesday at noon and the date set for the
ball is tha 3rd Friday in January.

OT...
Briefs

During the past week the boys |
of the contingent continued their
training with the same “esprit de
corp” that was characteristic of
them during their route march
several weeks ago. Although still
without greatcoats they carry on
during these biting fall days and
find their pleasure warming-up by
doubling once or twice around the
track during parades.

In general, the training of the
unit seems to be progressing satisfactorily in the eyes of Major
Hogan and his fellow officers.
Congratulations are extended to
Kenneth Jones, who recently received his promotion from 2nd.
Lieutenant to Ist Lieutenant. It
is, indeed, a pleasure to all to see
two old Dalhousians return to aid
in the instruction and training of
the unit. These two old Dal
 

housians are Lieut. Bill Wickwire | i :
| housie’s entry in the College-Ser
and 2nd Lieut. Rolly Ritchey—
both fine men with strong characters and pleasing personalities.

It is learned that a number of ©
the boys are going to have a |

chance at their first paper for a
Lieutenant’s Commision this coming December. The best of luck is
extended to them and may they
all have the good fortune of soon
becoming officers.

After Christmas the boys will
be back in harness and going to it

again, so until then—compliments |

of the season.
W. J. MacINNES.

 

One Moment

« # Please

 

Effective Speaking Club will meet
Monday, Dec. 2nd, in the Arts Bldg.
Time, 7.15 p.m. The topics are:
“Resolved that Canadian Universities can make their greatest contribution to Canada’s war effort by
concentrated instruction in Science”.
“Resolved that fine feathers make
fine birds”.

How do you know that you can’t
speak? Turn out and make a startling discovery.

The Newfoundland Club will meet

You puccess

ae pi. hasigs th a

   

e with their work at the pres-| The a Wishes

: HALIFAX, N. 8., NOVEMBER 29, 1940

Jerry Naugler’s band will privide

The committee in charge includes:
Bert Perrot, Trois Rivieres; JohnLiverpool; Bert Vail

Bill Messervey, Halifax; Ian James,
Halifax.

Students’ Council Council

EFL

A. Sportsman les

 

}
JOAN BLACKWOOD |

Malco!m Award

The captions above happen appro| priately to fit the three student mem|bers of the Malcolm Honor Award
| Committee, selected Tuesday by the

|! Council, but, they are really the
description applied to Jimmy Malcolm in whose honor the highest Dal
| award is given. Students who emu|late his record are potential recipi(ents. Dr. Bell and Dr. Wilson’ were
‘the faculty members of the committee chosen. Joan Blackwood won the
award on graduating last year.

Moot Court Stern’ Pee
~|AsKapak Censored .,

One Dollar Fine Imposed

 

 

 

 

 

WEBSTER ___ WEBSTER MACDONALD © DONALD

‘ods by which a culprit may be pun
No. &

 

 

Individualism Gaudet’s Stand
King Shows Up Well

Dalhousie debaters lost a two-one decision to Mount Allison
in their first debate of the season, which took place at Mount
Allison on November 22nd. The Resolution was, “Resolved that
higher citizenship can be produced by government legislation.”
Ross Robertson and Nathan Cohn represented the affirmative
side for Mount Allison, while Walter Gaudet and Ted King took
the negative. Edgar MacWilliam, chaiman of the M.I.C.D.L.,
presided.

he Mr. Robertson began the debate by

| defining the various terms, and then
|discussing the nature of law and
the conditions under which higher
citizenship could be produced. He
| pointed out that Law was not the
| only factor involved, but that it was
a paramount necessity for an active
'and useful civilization. He illustrated this point by examples chosen
from the great civilizations of the

glide and a Gentleman |

past. Mr. Cohn concluded the affirmative by discussing the necessity
for law in our own time. He emphasized that by government law

was meant that kind of lerislation
which the judgement of the com-'
munity approved and was willing to
see enforced.

Mr. Gaudet, in opening the negative, stated that government lerislation only hampered man’s in
dividualism and that all great events
had been inspired by individuals.
He continued to sav that the natural
dignity of man would be destroyed
—+bv such excessive use of the law as
now find in the _ totalitavgan
states. Mr. King considered the need
of moral and religious organization

 

G. M. (Mike) SMITH

we

judgment outlined the various meth
 

In Long Session

At a meeting of the council of
| the students which broke up just
before midnight Tuesday a motion
presented by Henry Reardon involving a ruling on exemptions
from military training intended to
preclude Dal Executive appointments as grounds for exemptions,
was turned down by a vote of 7-6,
the majority preferring net to
take the suggested action at this
time.

Other business (handled) included:

During the last session of the
| Moot Court, Willie Kapak was fined |
for contempt cf Court. He refused
t> pay the fine and escaped the cus-|
tody of the Sheriff. A special ses-|
| Sion of the Court was called Friday,
| Nov. 22, to try Kapak on a charge |
of gross contempt.

| The case was a serious one, due|
|to the nature of the offence. This}
Leas one of a very few cases in the|
| history of the Law School, where a|

 

ished, emphazing the fact that crime

; ae todav. He also made the rebuttal
IS not personal in its nature but af- ‘ ;
. | for Dalhousie, and was followed h+
fects society. He warned the pris-| .,
Robertson, who ended the debats
oner that such conduct warranted ; : ,
In an interview Mr. Gaudet sta:graver measures but in leniency im- se ; ;
; lf . joll: ed that the trip had been a very
osed a nominal fine of one dollar.
P i " eniovable one and that the Mt. A.
Crown Prosecutor George C. Cors-| bovs (and eoeds) had been very conton called Fred Thurgood, Harold’ siderate. Himself. a debating vet
|MacAdam and Fred Forbes as witnesses for the prosecution. No witnesses were called by the prisoner
‘in his own defense.

eran, Gaudet had high praise for his
partner, Ted King, who was making
his first appearance as a debater for

the facilities for training in the

1. The budget to support Dal|person fined refused to comply with |

vices league was passed. the ruling of the Court.

r
a Ch s ~ > his
2. The all-important Malcolm ' tr hae sii 3 try hi
* own cas > ¢ ad j
Honor Award Committee was oo ene nies Unjearned re
chosen procedure his questions were incom- |

‘petent and immaterial. He gave up
\in despair on being rebuked by the
| Judges for his improper conducting

: ; 'of the case.
arrangement, are. provided with | °
| Frank Corcoran, L.C.J., in his

Arts and Science

3. The annual Dalhousie-Kings
agreement was passed. The King’s
College athletes, through such an

 

 

 

Dal Gym and on the campus football field.

4. Henry Reardon reported on
the possibility of a Dalhousie Band Pi ae Amendments

Proposed amendments to the constitution of the Arts & Science Society were passed and put on record
at the meeting held on Thursday, in
the Chemistry Theatre.

being incorporated into the C.O.
Henceforth the financial 2

T.C. unit. He said there is an
army musician in Halifax, a very
capable one at that, who stresses
the necessity of having new instruments before such a project
can be launched. It is possible, |
however, and Major Hogan ismaking every effort possible to

get the new equipment from mili
tary authorities. Let’s hope for |
the best.

will be:

1. That the fees handed in to the
society by the classes of ’48 and ’44
be turned back to those classes

2. Beginning September 1941, all
new Arts & Science students coming
into the society must pay a membership fee of $1.00.

8. That all students at present
taking Arts & Science pay a fee
of 50 cents to cover their membership — this ticket makes one a
member from January 1941 to the
date of one’s graduation.

Other more outstanding issues
making up the new constitution are
that:

 

on Sunday afternoon, Dec.
2.30, in the Arts Building.

Ist, at

 

All members of the Senior Class
of ’41 are requested to have their
photographs taken at the Climo
studios (next to Henry Birks &
Sons). Special prices have been arranged. “Watch for further notices.

 

Commerce Society: Short meeting
Tuesday noon. Room 3. Dance plans.

(Continued on page 2)

 

Dal.

ee

 

cae

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

 

 

DO YOU STUDY IN LIBRARY?

Most Dalhousie students apparently study in the Library at least part
of the time. 78% of students quizzed had actually spent at least 12 hours
in one or other of the Campus Libraries this fall (or said they had). The
other 22% hadn’t. One student candidly admitted that he never studied
in the Library, but added that he wrote all his themes there.

> OK x * ok
DO YOU APPROVE OF DUTCH DATES?

Sentiment among students on this question is hopelessly divided, but
47%, or very nearly half, think that Dutch dates are definitely a bad thing
and should be discouraged. This includes about 65% of the girls and
90% of the lawyers quizzed. 31% like them, mostly males at Studley and
in medicine. 8% say it all depends on who the date is, 5% more suggest
that it depends on other circumstances. 7% are still in the primeval ooze
of subconscious invertebracy and have no opinion on this world-making
subject. Orchids go to one tolerant individual who doesn’t care what
nationality his dates belong to, and one seemingly inexperienced coed who
“wouldn’t know what to do with one if she had one.”

* * +
ARE YOU FIGHTING DIPHTHERIA?

DIPO is becoming public-minded and so decided to find out how many
Dal students really have been taking advantage of the services of the
Health Clinic in preventing the spread of diphtheria in the city and
college. 68% of students quizzed have either had a toxoid injection or
been tested and found immune, but the fairly high proportion of 32%
had done nothing whatever about the epidemic. Law has the lowest record
of all faculties, reporting only 27% toxoided or immune. Medicine, appropriately enough, has the greatest proportion. alive to the perils of
disease.

SE ee ea a a a a a a a a

And A Merry Christmas

 

 
 
     
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
     
  
    
 
  

 
  
  

aS aS ned
i

of THE GAZETTE ate those of the
it they represent che opinion of the

 

wie Te ew | et Se
oy ee ple |) Se Se
Std cea ce ee ae) ed a Ny) ee
te ah ce oN de, ot me ie he
eee te 7 ta hey Pee ee eb te) fo
ae ee PA a i ee ee
To Pier) ae eee

ain iaoym os, & =) (© | |=

    
 

- be eee we we he OO! ee Oe

anager; INEZ SMITH
; OHNSON. -. 
usiness Manager: MARY |

Py st

 

  

ie ae REPORTERS:
os Ferguson, Howard Gordon, Mar MacKeigan,
Jean Phinney, Jean Weinstein, Robert Blois,

Pichi
_ BAYONETS AND BRAINS
When students and professors returned to
classes this fall they faced a new situaThe war, which last a oe little si
than a good news story, | gun seriously
to threaten the Empire, even the western hem_ isphere. Public opinion impressed upon government authorities the impatience of the people
vith the slow rate at which volunteers for the
med forces were being accommodated and a
‘tematic compulsory plan of training was introduced during the summer; a plan whereby
| > fullest use was to be made of Canada’s
_ During the summer, too, Canadian university presidents met with some cabinet ministers
and devised a scheme, presumably a compromise, by which university males could proceed
with their studies without being called up dur_ ing the term. It called for campus training
corps during the academic year and a. two
weeks camp in the spring. The plan was hailed
as a concession to students and a move in keep__ ing with the Government’s professed desire to
. let higher education proceed unhampered.
va When the training program was published
‘one aspect of it caused surprise, for it appeared that despite the government’s diffi- eulty in providing equipment and personnel
- for the training of the twenty-one-year-olds
called up the universities were able to train
__» males of all ages who registered and that no
exemptions would be made on grounds either
__ of age or weight of studies. Young medicos,
___ training for a skilled profesion vitally needed
in the war effort, needed to fill ranks seriously depleted by the overseas demand, were
to take as many hours on the drill grounds
as Arts students with a minimum course of
; _ studies and in training for no specific proa fession.. These individuals particularly were
amazed when it was announced that there
was to be no slackening off of drill hours
_ towards examination time. They felt that
_ more consideration could have been paid to
_ their physiques and their grades as well.
It is suggested that the university presi| dents in their meeting this summer were
ig id conscious of an element in public opinion, per___ haps encouraged by the press, which considered
| the university student as occupying a privileged
_ position and considered advanced learning as a
luxury in which a nation at war could not ina dulge. _ And so they were quick to proclaim that
_ every man at university would be trained as a
oldier. The university would surpass the
ent scheme in drilling men of all ages,
| | or single, exempting only the physically
_ unfit. The Government did nothing to assist
_ the college chiefs in their situation with regard

 

  

 

 
  
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
  

  

   
  
 
 
 
 
  
    

~
1
.
ae 1
Y. t a

      
 

  

%

  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 

_ to public opinion, making public no official satisfaction with the plan, leaving the universities to
_ announce it themselves.
____ While recognizing the
_ and equalitarian plan ‘of
_ training, we believe that it is up to the stu_ dents to support determinedly those of their
‘ofessors who do not wish to see the academic

r

    

need of a systematic

  

_ unbalanced public opinion or by over-officious
officials. If invasion were expected this winter
| it would be foolish to talk of studies in anyh thing but military strategy, but sane people
___will admit that Canada’s task at present is to
| organize her whole economy and her whole
_ Social structure into a military machine which
Mul zes every science and every skill her manpower is capable of providing.

yanada needs men and women with a trained
__ intelligence. Canada needs doctors, she needs
_ scientists and engineers and administrators.
Res. she needs all the able-minded men the univerhey: § A military

 

ities are capable of turning out.
plan that will make no concessions to heavy
_ and important study-courses, that is so inE flexible and incognisant of the importance of
__ non-military education that it can do nothing
_ to ease the strain imposed on students near
amination time is a menace to the country’s
siency and, therefore, security. Students
e cooperated commendably throughout all
universities in facilitating the training plan.
- have done so at Dalhousie. Just now,
ver, some of them are wondering if there
‘some way of preventing the university
ming an ill-preserved backyard to the
urely they are not to .be considered
cause they wish to serve with brains

   
   

PT)

*

ciation of Writers for Intellectual Liberty, has described
the relation of the artist to society in the following

terms.

compulsory military |

RY

= =. :

 
     
 

.
- — a

Thi a 3 catapelbtide: HUMAN NATURE—SO WHAT?
cay, of pathetic impotency, tragic illusion.” Newton, Sept. 20 — A young
eay,,0t pathetic fup 77 Ne woman, with long brown hair and
hazel eyes, about 5 ft. 6 in. tall,
jumped off Center Bridge here to
day. She was wearing a black

Stephen Spender, in a recent address to the Asso
crepe dress and a black coat, but
no hat. With much difficulty the
body was recovered from the river
after five hours’ search, The victim has not yet been identified.

It is, firstly, “the understanding that the
artist is trying to interpret a reality which, even if it
presses on him with a certain extra intensity, nevertheless exists, with all its problems, for everyone;” and
secondly, “that there is a demand by the most educated
and fully conscious members of society to have reality
interpreted by the artist.”

 

 

eT TT

Yes, sergeant, that’s my wife.
How long had we been married?
Six months. But I swear it isn’t my
fault she did this. I did everything
I could to please her. You believe

If we assume that this relationship exists between
the artist and society, we will find that the factors
which are involved underwent gradual and far-reaching
changes with the coming of the machine and the rise

of modern industrial civilization. Previously those who me, don’t you sergeant? I really
demanded the work of the artist were men of wealth did want her to be happy.
and leisure with an age-old tradition “of spending their! y.. see, it’s this way. When I

ducats upon collecting lovely paintings or hiring bands
of musicians of endowing beautiful churches.” These
were the day of the patrons of the arts; the aristocrats,
who demanded the interpretations of the artist, whether
from love and delight, from vanity or from boredom.
For his services, the artist was supported, frequently
half-heartedly, as a servant, but nonetheless he was
able to carry on his work in some degree of comfort.

first met Mary, she was pretty hot
stuff. The men just flocked around
her and everybody knew she had
what it takes. Well, she took a shine
to me and that was O.K. by yours
truly. I like taking other men’s
women out. However, the action

because just then I had Ethel on my
hands. Later, Mary wanted to marry me, reform me you know. I
thought she might just as well, so
I made Ethel leave. How did I get
rid of her? How does any man get
rid of a woman, serg.? »

Then I made my great mistake. I
let Mary go away for the winter.

Gradually the old order began to pass away. The
merchant replaced the landed aristocrat in prestige and
wealth; professional and small business groups became
more numerous; peasants, unable to compete with the
machine, found their way into the factories and workshops. There was no longer a demand for art, no
longer a patron to support a promising artist. The
new man of wealth had no art tradition, and found
little or no enjoyment in such work. The second group She wanted to take a better job in
was too busy trying to keep its head above water to baa Pitas that ihe could bey
be bothered with art, and as for the working class, ther a trouseau. Mary was always a nice
had been torn completely from their OOTDES. No girl. Couldn’t think of getting marlonger were they even remotely connected with 2| sed without a trouseau. Well, she
common culture or loyalty. Waldo, in The Story of an | wont away. and I beran to get loneAfrican Farm, says of such people: “You may Work. | one i. Ethel Lala wah etd of
and work, and work, till you are only a body, not 21 arg seit.) Rant aeaiuay, se
soul. Work is good. I have worked at the old farm rnteht say, When Mary came back
from the sun’s rising till its setting, but I have had). ‘he Spring I didn’t really want to
time to think, and time to feel. You may work a man| aia ai ny Sete gist,
so that all but the animal in him is gone; and that | didn’t like to-let her down. She
grows stronger with physical labour. You may work was “nuts” about me.

a man till he is a devil.” Finally we were married and set; aga

The man to man relation that had previously existed | tled on m in. our new place, She
between the artist and his patron became a relation knew [I'd had other women before
between the artist and the market. Art became a ner, Pitt she didn’t know about Ethel
commodity, a piece of merchandise. The artist felt no| and the Winter she was away. She
responsibility for trying to interpret a common reality, thought at least I was honest. She
indeed there was no common reality that was mean- thought I meant what I eee waen
ingful. In such circumstances, the artist “has to decide | pneere her, that 1 didn’s, want, to
for himself what reality is, or he may even decide to | 94. Mee pies Maer ice open
ignore it altogether; he stands on his own ground, or | One GAY ee Beak epOUs x ee i

erhaps he stands on no ground.” Les Gh ssa Fle Mees, Rae.
P P 5 lwas awful. She’d never learned

about the horrors of unhappiness.
She had believed what they told her
in the movies and stories, that everything turns out happily in the

 

 

 

As the industrial revolution gained momentum, new
groups came into existence: the wealthy man with new
leisure, the scientist, the professional man, all of the
great privileged middle class, living comfortably and |
securely. With these changes there is a growing mass | one :
of “educated and conscious members of society” who abe Heo nate ait ie mee
appreciate and demand the work of the artist. Buel big man with a red ea oa
the artist in interpreting reality must interpret the pre “ipeer ee te geet oe
reality he knows and the reality known to his audience be dy lsid cut) inthe. morgue. ‘The
Today, “the medium of art springs from a middle class Serre Sens thes anes ie inch
environment. This tradition is so strong that even if Ronine, eeeren re em Phas
an artist springs from the working class, he writes in |
that tradition and about that kind of life.” The working class has no cultural tradition and is almost
completely cut of from the art of our day which interprets a reality quite unfamiliar to it. Their life is one
“continually in the grip of facts such as poverty, the
struggle for a livelihood, ugliness, and the overwhelming weight of an industrial environment as different
and moneyed environment as the eighteenth century is
from the twentieth.”

ms

The big man with a _ red beard
groaned and rolled over on his side
in the bed. Then he looked at his
watch.

“My God,” he muttered, “dreams
like those are the result of being
brought up to have a conscience
when you’re young. But, just the
|same, I guess I had better go down
iand identify the body today. Get it

The environment of the middle class has been almost | °Y°™ with. Now, let me see. Ten
o’clock. I wonder if I phone Ethel

completely dominated by modern science, and yet),

people have accepted the fruits of science as i if she'd be awake yet.”
accept the weather. They have no knowledge of the |
wonder with which the scientist sees the world. The.
artist, in his interpretation of the natural world, is!
faced with the gigantic task of making men appreci- | (Continued from Page One)
atively aware of this aspect of reality.. Lotka, a famous| 1- Im the future, Freshmen are to
biologist, ask the question: “If the simple Hebraic niyth | be admitted to the society no later
was competent to inspire a Haydn to compose an| than the 2nd meeting—instead of the

 

 

Amendments -
Oratorio of the Creation, what tone poem shall ad- after Xmas policy previously in
equately celebrate the new meaning, in the mind of the | force.
modern astronomer, of the words— 2. One member will be chosen

 

from each class at Studley to sit
with the Arts & Science executive.
3. There will be two presentations

In human relationships we see a society in which all of the financial report per annum

the values of life are submitted to money values, we instead of the customary one.

see an enormous mass of people completely shut off 4. All committees to be elected at
from our cultural traditions and without traditions of | P&® Arts & Science Society meettheir own, and we see a world racked by wars of al.| Mss- :

most unimaginable dimensions. And the artist writing 5. Special events committee comin the middle class tradition must present a picture of posed of five persons instead of

decay, of pathetic impotency, tragic illusion. tures on Potts Fepleces. Biasokard Wiswell as a member of this

group.
6. A meeting to be always held
immediately after Christmas.
Presence of some of the Engineering Society caused a bit of confusion,
but the latter was controlled by
President Inez Smith. ;

“The Heavens declare the Glory of God
The Wonder of His power proclaims the firmament.”

 

;

Romain Rolland, in Jean-Christophe says “Art is)
life tamed, Art is the Emperor of life.” Today life
is so far beyond our understanding and appreciating
of it, that one may doubt if we shall ever touch it, let
alone tame it.

A.

 

wasn’t on my part, you understand, |

 

|

 

 

—

        

$1.00 sends 300
Se eRe ae) ee it
arettes or $1,

send either 1 ib. of OLD VIRGINIA
pipa tobacco or 1 Ib. of
CAPORAL FINE CUT (with Vogue
papers)to Canadians serving in C.AS.F.
overseas only

$2.50 sends 1,000
cigarettes to an individual or unit.

Address ‘Sweet Caps,”
P.O. Box 6000, Montreal, P.Q.

     
         
       
   
      
   
    

“You know, madam, ‘a stitch in time’. .
“1 know-——gives me time for a Sweet Cap.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

  
 

will help you
next term I

@ Unique, and utterly different,
this gleaming laminated-pearl
Parker Vacumatic Pen has everything! Patented “‘one-hand” filler
—a simple diaphragm sealed in
the top... gives the pen nearly
twice as much ink capacity, because there’s no need for oldfashioned rubber sac and filler
mechanism inside,

Its patented “Television”
barrel lets you SEE the

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    

run dry unless you let it.
Its 14 Kt, Gold Point is
skilfully tempered for
resiliency—tipped with
selected high-polished
Osmiridium—as smooth
as oil. f
Parker’s Blue Dia- &
mond Mark on the £
smart Arrow Clip |
means Guaranteed for Life—you will never have to £
buy another. :
Start right with a Parker. All good pen counters B®
have aselectionof grandnewstyles. Seethemtoday. 3

The Parker Fountain Pen Co., Limited, Toronto, Canada

SRaAN ieee FOR LIFE e

Parker

—=—- VACUMATIC =

Pens marked with the Blue Diamond are guaranteed for
life against everything except loss or intentional damage
subject only to a charge of 35¢ for postage, insurance and
handling, provided complete pen is returned for service.

 

4

 

 
     
    
      
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
     
     
    
 
  

  
  
      
  

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 
   

  
   
   
   
    
 

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

    
  

  

Arts and Science Faculty

| Degrees: B.A., B.Sc.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
| Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
| Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Se.

|
Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.

     
  
 
   
    
     
  

    
    
  
    
   
     
  
   
  

Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

    
    

| The Professional Faculties
| in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 
      
   
   
 
  
 
    

   
  
 
 

   
  
 
    

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course avera
A, ge about $160 a :
in the B.Se. course about $190.00 a wae

   

 
  
   
  
  

  
    
  

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

-_

 
 

     
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   

shea, pe

me) }
i ay,” a

4 rae
a ef
awn. | |
. SL ‘ i
" \ +
2 i i y
7 U Week?
; a 
m1 Rayne From Rangoon 
 

siling of the Silent Column,

2 With the Dillemagogues.

ei the prisoner at the bore,
lie Gaychap, had recovered from
} gas attack laid down by =

    

Third Estate

; escourted by a bevy of ex-ofconstabulary to the murky cav
the Haunt of the Ghouls, | :
7 Expression of Student Opinion?

issolving Harry Smith, Post Grad.:
large beaker—a desperate ef
to, the greenish-brown haze so
sary to the proper functioning
eee column.

| Witt an imperious gesture, Baron
Frankfurter waved the luckless Gayto the hotbox, where constaTramway and MacTwitchie

=
e
A
oa
3g
i
st
pork
©
4
3
ui

er, who, to obtain the most accurate

expression, would be forced to con
front and hold conversation with

everyone on both campuses. Ugh!
* & *

Murial Barry, Freshette:

‘pinned forward his ears and left} No! I think the whole thing’s
him for a thorough drying. “dippy” myself. They don’t ask
Be re ae | enough people... they never asked

leanwhile, out on the quod me. |

% cd *

eorge Coarse-one and his filthyfifteen were dashing about with
ttles and large spoons, frantically
ninistering soothing syrup to sun
Allen Finlay, Science:

That depends on how many people
| are asked. I suppose it is as accurdry studes too numerous to mention|ate an opinion as you could get
whe had become hoarse in the pro-| without taking a ballot. Say, what
eess of a whispering campaign di-| is this ?
ed to Sammy Skunk, whose abmal consumption of polar pies| Kathryn Robinson, Arts:
beginning to cause suspicion. | Statistically, yes. I think they
' Weird-one, encumbered by|teally do count the answers. But
an enormous Union Jack, had given the way the questions are asked—
; it’s insane! They must be trying to

up the chase and taken a position
imitate those statistics fiends you
meet in the States.

at the street corner, where, with one
thumb extended, he made pleading
pg at passing members of the ae
P. E. L. Light Pengin Guards, who,
mistaking him for the statute of
_ Equality* clattered up unheeding on
_. their penguins. small part of eight hundred odd. Of
Although nothing was needed to|course most people probably say
id to the confusion, Cholly Robots| what they think.

*

pe
> a
Je hi
ae!

S

=

* *

 

z
Dulcie Sparkes, Freshette:

They don’t ask enough people.
After all, sixty people are a very

Re
SCSULUTES

nh
and his medical minions supplied it
by showering great shoals of im-| Allan Gardner, Arts:
_ properganda pamphlets about the| No!
sidewalks.
_ D.Birdlegs Black, sensing a story,| can only result in a paradox.
pounced on one of the leaflets, but
found it to be nothing more than a
‘weather report predicting a storm
of great proportions for Dec. Ist.
M ajor Hokum hurried by in a rain
ur
ieee || 9 it

¥ Binnet at Bay.

a a”

Obiter Scripta

sd

‘

was amply demonstrated to Obiter

.

EE a aE EEE A a a

enough it is still good-—Ed.

Does DIPO Represent an Accurate d

/a lovely time at the party except
one fellow who turned up late, and

As accurate as lies within the) didn’t pay his way in, therefore not
physical endurance of the question-| deserving a good time, anyway. The
usual
afterwards—from those who did not
behave, the complaints mostly toxic
symptoms; from those who did it
was the old one, that they had to
look after those who didn’t. (“I had
to put him to bed five different times,
and you should see the scars—AND

th ; yy introduce a
eee peerer urece ever) Oh, | quiet, capable young man known in

of time and you ought to know— | “Rangoon”
You see Rose was at a dinner and,|
being jovial by nature, called a wait
gasp in Truro.

pool’s sons passed Pathology in ad-.
vance as Cal’s car, loaded with blue- Gtdaits
noses picked up
scholarly professor out of the murk| he ably headed the Gate Committee.
and rain tha& has obscured Halifax | pp, grand finalé of the year came in
for the past week.

this year of last year’s renowned
Council president.
his cave deep in the glistening white
bath tub atmosphere of the Victoria
Accuracy and Dal student! General (B6321, for the benefit of) ..
opinions, when considered together. | B9746) we found he evinced a sing-|
ular desire to go to New Glasgor
We didn’t ask him to explain—vou)|
may. if you wish. :

Kenzie, careering away from

That storms can brew in a teacup} concert!

 

 

 

 

j . ' * . ™ - ™
t 7 5 fy re eye oe “4 : A 4 i ee =, .
vA . 4 my Ly re ee a aarp cf anaee n ty ewe if
; , rule | ae fee hd, hai ait MAA Soot wets, We tan si Pray < - hs cat iv Ba ') A,
, ‘ a el tae FE rey, {ia 4 ate) f * ; a ej eS ey Sepa bs f ia ig re roe : 7 oa Teper Qa
ss j fae P rt } \ oh oy Oa iu ; 9 ;
’ er “4 Ne ia CT ey Cae ed iP a ‘ fey re iS - wiv f ’ * Re he 5 A Pact ;
tai | F ie ie LPP Pv va. Win END, ogy Yh ,
ey ’ e Me Veumiae, eet a eins : ' | ae 3
ur 7 ; 4 \ +H) n
ae Peviniiawes wy fou? etF Thi a5 ’
“nf t iis : : 7% ’ Z pa Fi
Sy «te Xa 7 rhs " : & mF
; < OA eu Path , ‘ ? 7 a et et ee ee LOA AAD ee OE ee ee ame |
‘ Ser ' j % , '
iF pe A 1 . : 4 F
} oe an. i te 7 : ' ‘ D L oie
Revie — th al Ouste $s « «
a . ' ee

who's who

(a a
LLL ME LEE ET EE EE
- $$$

Ce

 

———
Mt A A a A Pe A LE RE

 

Last week’s copy for this column reached us
n good time for insertion this week. Strangely

As usual the Med. Ball is the best
ance of the year. Everybody had

complaints were rampant

 

Today we wish to

well, re if the furniture suffered! the land of “Forrest” and “Studley”
the partyites felt no pain till later.

It’s old ait a6 las Pete Nicholson, B. Com. or pers old news but it’s stood the test | haps better known in the land of
as Picklesome Pete.

Pete was born in Springhill, N. S.,
|where he took his early schooling.

er, “Waiter,” he said, “Did you hear! Then he moved to Glace Bay,. C:. Bi,
the one about the...

“No,’ says the waiter, “what is it?” :
‘me : School in 1936. In the Fall of th
Squelehed? you could hear Webeiuta| . en r

- seamen?” |and graduated from Glace Bay High

|Same year he entered Dal as a
i | freshie-soph in the Faculty of Com| merce..
|Next year as a Junior, Pete was the

x
And speaking of Seamen, Liverrepresentative on the

’ Council. Besides his scholastic duties and those of a “solon”,

Commerce

a certain quiet.

the spectacular contest between Bud
se Dut . _|MacKenzie and Pete for President
ardly a mention) of the Students” Council.

z  £ €

Fickle Fame! Fifteen

gave “Bud” the advantage,
but we shall never forget how Pete
led Studley so very near to =

|

Pay a | votes
Visiting him in|

In his Senior year Pete was
member-at-large” on the Council.
He headed the Munro Day Commit‘tee as chairman and he was elected

1

President of the Commerce Society.

89 brought Nicholson back to us

telcos |once again, this time to study Law. |

‘Ryder ‘Cowboy!" shouts man | That year he was Treasurer of the |

CRS! Wisldon Inn Legal Fraternity. The|

Year Book editor also claimed him
for his associate editor.

au a *

© ¥ %

 

Among the peoples’ shoes whose |

is seeretary-treasurer of the Law
Society. Besides being on the committee which so capably handled the
Law Ball, Pete also finds time to

CAPITOL

_ The confusion spread to the fac
Scripta upon hearing that certain

The Council awarded Pete an hon
  

Senior Law students took exception, We Wouldn't like to be in of is the orary gold “D” for his untiring ef
ulty, Prof. G. Vibrant Galloper blund ori ng by mistake into Binnet’s Eng‘lish Toot group and telling them
that John Milkman was a clumsy
fool, that he didn’t know quartz from
intz, rum from rye, or mountains
1 molehills.

    
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
    
   

to remarks of a gay nature whic
were passed on in the lasy column
under this title. The remarks object to dealt with the posting of
extra lectures in some Law courses,

 

thea writer and to everyone else at}

for such extra classes has been

land was a bigger country
shown; so,

nada in every important

or attempte
| that her Navy could lick ours|involved I say,
day. |trying to be subtle and I fear it
en the door groaned open| was yours truly”. In any event, I
nges and none other than | hope that this, little dig will absolve
>. Fizzleque entered, bear- | from all blame another writer for
ast straw in his tousled|the Gazette who was accused, with‘seventeen females, still | out warrant, of having written the
fuddied from their hour at dastardly lies which were of such a
oathsome Society, where} “serious” nature.
id had been exhibiting a
‘oach to the germ dormant,
x after him, each and every

0

Current rumour has it that the
Medical Society plans to ask that
military training for the med students be halted on December first,

by the metacarpus left exso as to give the boys a little time |

agit

“Back to your closets. boys.”

of oan eee in which to prepare themselves for; ~~~
., end? Right here. their Christmas exams. The request

seems very reasonable, and everyone concerned hopes that the settlement of the request may be reached
without any unpleasantness. All
students, not excluding the Meds
themselves, have a great deal of
sympathy for those who have to
work in labs and lecture rooms all
day, take in military training, and
try to plug for their examinations
all at the same time. The sympathy
on the part of the bystanders is
certainly not dampened by the prospect that it may be possible for all
hands to ring in on this concession,
if it is granted.

" : idea, begun in Russia,
has appeared on the campus

AIN'T IT THE TRUTH?
find fault with the editor,
uff we print is rot;
er is as peppy as a cemetery

, they say, are stale;
r classmen holler,

| the paper’s issued

it with a smile) ‘ee

Belated congratulations to the
Delta Gamma Society and to the
Royal Canadian Navy Band for the
excellent programme they presented
on the seventeenth. Many people
have spoken about the high quality
9. of all the entertainment, and hope
: : “Why, what happened?” | that. in view of the substantial sucDaily Anthenaeum.|cess of the concert in all respect,

eee Sn Vin A et 1
AY aw ue es eigen te Lire!
at Me Tete uc. aa 1 dy Gah js cnat
Ma | " ee ‘ye ht i tt A Tate. %
Nae oe y. [eed aa ' ee eas
ae int one _ en . “R ‘4 hy

h| previous columnist’s what we pinch
‘hit for when Fiendel and Bob catch
up with him if ever because.

the reason for which was obscure to| around the campus.
as bear on the future of our beloved

the time the column was written.| dirt columns must be taken seriously.

Since then good and sufficient cause | Otherwise reasonably sane persons
‘have been heard to say in the presfor the benefit of those} emce of some of our most eminent
who failed to take up the humour,| columnists that such and
d humour if you will, | column is mean, deals always wit'
“Someone erred in| the same characters, ete. If we au
forts and co-operation in student |

activities.

Now he is in second year Law and

& * '

being heard
Such remarks

a

 

 

Subversive talk is
editorial and DIPO—after all, in a
year when we are getting almost
nothing for our ten bucks, surely we
ean expect competent management
ef bulletin boards, decent periodicals in the common rooms, a student
directory issued so that we won’t be
forced to start using in the Christmas holidays. This is a year when
Council should have more money
than the just barely adequate. How
about our property-porr Glee Club?

such a

thors (?). are driven to unite then
heaven help the student body, for
no merey will be forthcoming from
us. If you want something to criti Give them a break. — Spots, floods,
cize, follow the lead of last week’ | drops, honestly, they haven’t a thing.
ee | What good is a spendid stage if you
future programmes of the same cali-| can’t light it, give it proper scenery.
ber may be arranged. The Gleejact on it, etc? Must the Medical
Club might serve well by promoting |and Law Common rooms go on for
such concerts to be held on the oc-|ever with just the morning papers,
casional Sunday night, and let the| while Arts and Science basks year
Dalhousie student know that there is| after year in the literary light of a
some really fine musical talent on! welter of interesting literature. We
this campus. ‘want Esquire!

 

 

The
Pig Sty

ay ESS TE
“Greater love hath no man _ than
this”. When Johnny McLellan’s date
from out of town failed to show up,
his pal broke the date with Laura.
In consequence neither had the

pleasure. Nice goin’, Gal.
* * *

CHarlie “Fide” Doyle is in the
“Doghouse” again. Even dogs have
to have something to “get everything they want’’, Charlie.

*

* *

 

*

but. Our redhead is flourishing without the “collosal” attentions of yesteryear. Phil does it again.

*

* *

Mutiny and sedition seem to be
the order of the day. At our sister
institution on Coburg Road, vandals
have wantonly desecrated Burns
Martin’s “Bust” and performed other
perfidious acts. Tsk, Tsk!

*

Why did Kay Robinson blush so
at the meeting of the sociology club,
at the mention of certain social

* *

The “Eternal Freshman” is getting it in the end again. Nothing
trivial, we hope, George.

Be it problems? Was she “socially emThe date that looked “just like| barrassed” or did her conscience
Margie” turned out to be no one else| bother her?

 

  

ee

7 i tiar A out SRS" aay —
~~ ae ny wi At. Bet ree t):
, ae oe . ieee) Pe Th
ae (Se wEsLled cae
it \ ee li oa" ‘fT Ti
L ‘ { - c ¥ 4

or . ; ,; f :
~¢s }

‘ * tat
wy re pa

Page Three _
write for the Gazette.. No doubt as
time goes on-he shall. add. more
laurels to his colorful career and, as
they say, “more power to him” and

   

 

   
  
   
   

  

| Hennibal ”§ animal tank corps, climbing their Alpine track,,
Kept the troops contented with fragrant Picobac.

@ This would explain how. the great ‘Carthaginian wasable to keep his troops happy so. long away from home. .
For the pick of Canada’s Burley crop is always a mild,'.
cool, sweet smoke. Today ‘it)is Canada’s most popular:
; pipe tobacco. And delight in its fragrance and: flavour:
is: embamced by its extremely .moderate:price.

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT: POUCH... 154
14-LB. “LOK-TOP" TIN™ « - 65¢ also packed= in» Pocket :Tins

Pic

“Ht DOES taste good.in-a-pipe!

— Ie ae 
  
      
      
     
     
   
     
    

      
       
   
       
       
 
     
     
       
    
   
  

OXFORD

Today and Saturday
“YESTERDAY’S HEROES”
“SOUTH OF PAGA' POGO”’

Ménday and.’ Tuesday

SPENCER TRACEY
in “EDISON THE MAN”

“Mysterious Mr. . Reeder?’

Wednesday and Thursday
“SAFARI”
“CAFE HOSTESS”

THEATRE —- HALIFAX

EE

Starting Saturday

“Strike Up The.
Band”
with
Mickey Rooney
Judy Garland
&

Tuesday — Wednes. — Thurs. .

“Blackout”

Conrad Veidt
Valerie Hobson

QORPHEUS
Today andi Saturday
“SECRET SEVEN?’

and
“FIVE LITTLE PEPPERS.
IN TROUBLE”
Startimg Monday

“LAUGH IT. OFF”
and “MARGY”

    
    
     

GARRICK

Feiday. and’ Saturday
“RANGERS OF FORTUNE”
“PUBLIC DEB. No. 1”
Monday and’ Tuesday
“BEONDIE HAS SERVANT
TROUBLE”:
“MONEY and the WOMAN”
Wednesday and, Thursday
“FOUR: JUST MEN”
and’ “ANNE: OF
WINDY POPGARS”

CASINO

Saturday, Monday, Tues.

  

“EAST of the RIVER”

Johm Garfteld
Brenda Marshall
Marjorie Rambeau.

   
 

    
   

  

Plus Three Swell Shorts

  

 

My lad, be wise, go Bryicreem-ize

Hair like a haystack always rates a laugh, yet it's so easy to have
that well-groomed look. BRYLCREEM—

@ Checks annoying dandruff
ay, but never ‘‘greasy’’. and falling hair; avoids
@ Revitalizes the scalp, restores embarrassment.
lustre and sheen to dry, lifeless @ Fights off baldness; encourages
haix. luxuriant hair growth.

@ Keeps stubborn hair soft, in place
il a

Brylcreem is the Empire's first choice hair dressing tonic; over
18,000,000 tubes and jars sold yearly. Get the new 25c size tube
from your dealer today, For extra economy buy the big 50c tube
or jar, Money-back guarantee.

BRYLCREEM

4-15R

THE. PERFECT HAIR DRESSING TONIC
No Alcohol—No Gum—No Starch—No Soqp

 
  

  
    
  
 

et ee Ly ee r | ale

Pewee wei ra ewe

Mab t va cay a rei
eee wet rae hs
r*, 7 4 ¢ : *]

Li ay
mr it?
a ee

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Friday, November 29, 1940

T. MARY'S C.O.T.C. TAKE FIRST HOCKEY GAME, 9-1.

ORT SHOTS TIGERS LOSE BY Se ae oe
BY DON BLACK Dp

. t Ities.
; Qi "With basketball on the way more will have to be shown if Dal is to A SMALL MARGIN ‘st. Mars

ee

 

a — 7s
fi 4 7 2
4
a ~
‘ sf

a

Dalhousie Trays

; | Munroe, Mulcahy, MacDonald, Ryan,
Bain Munro Plays Stellar Role In Nets. — Skerry High Scorer | Reardon, Skerry, Kline, Ernst, and

For Winners, M. MacDonald For Dal.
Dal Tigers suffered a set-back, Marty MacDonald closed on Pineo,

For a pleasing and lasting
gift for either sex, we suggest the Dalhousie Tray.

St. Mary’s—Pineo, Hill, Foley,
in an Intermediate League. It is recognized that probably a
players who can qualify for senior company have not come out

 
 

ee Oe toe te ome ate

| Vaughn.

that does not help Bernie any in calculating just how he is going Dalhousie: Munro, W. MacDonald,

" to get teams in both leagues that will be worth representing us. There

 

  

should be no difficulty of the Intermediates taking the game next week

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from a fast, heady St. Mary’s O.T.

 

 

 

 

with MacDonald making the score.

Webber, Mitchell, M. MacDonald,

 

 

Of fine silver plate, it is

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

f a . C. hockey team last evening in the; Dal forwards reached scoring posi-| Wilson, MacIntosh, Mullane, Doig, 14 inches in diameter, and
ee but Kings will turn out some snappy players that are bound to give the opening game of the College Service| tion a number of times later in the! Blois, Wiswell, and Kapak. has an etching of the Macfe: “ei Dal boys a go for their money. : Hockey League last evening at the| game, but were unable to make Summary Donald Memorial Library
He ‘s Cancellation of ground hockey saves this department from getting an| arena Bain Munro played a spark-| their shots count. Ist period: St. Mary’s, Skerry, in the centre.
Hh appropriation for flowers for those who fell in the fray. Fortunately for) jin, game in the nets, but was un-; Skerry’s first successful shot on|7,07. Penalties: Webber, W. Mac- Price $5.00
‘| __ the girls a snow storm intervened between them and the prowess of Red| able to get in front of two shots|Munro came in the middle of the| Donald, Ryan. ,
ae Payne’s Shin Crushers. This does not mean, however, that they will be| batted into the twine by Tom Sker-| first period when he golfed the puck| 2nd period: Dal, M. MacDonald ;
eh entirely freed from the game, but only that it is postponed and will be/ +. out of mix-ups in front of the|in out of a melee before the Dal (MacIntosh, Wilson), 3.23. Henr y Birks &
Me played at some future date, that is if the D.G.A.C. can raise a squad. nets. goal. His second score came late in} St. Mary’s, Skerry, 14.43.
F a? As to other feature matches of the year, it is anticipated that the} pal’s only score occurred early in|the second period with the score] ‘Penalties: Wilson, Vaughan, H. Sons
j i r - Students’ Council will face off against the D.A.A.C. at a special game|the second period when the Tiger’s|tied. He and Ryan kept in close tc|MacDonal Jb Biceeey. TiksiannelHaecedalee 4
‘| —s sometime after the New Year. A skating session for all those holding! ¢rst line of MacIntosh, Wilson and| Munro and tried at least five shots 8rd period: No score. Penalties, |
eo’ Council tickets is also mooted on a similar arrangement to last year. if z before Skerry caught a rebound off} W. MacDonald, Ryan.
Bet With Reardon the Ping Pong champion, he ve . ne po Badmintonians the post and made the final tally of
re on the possible winner of the spring tournament. It is also =o the game.
| _ of Golin Smith that he made way for Henry and played himself to sive! In Successful Week) oniy 2 smatt crowd attended the
f° him a bona fide entry into the tournament. We are pic ang wave O18! Wiftv-seven students and alumni| first game of the season with few . °
eee to come up against Reardon again in the college championships ae ia participated in badminton|Dal supporters in evidence. The ice The Nova Scotia Technical College
ee spring. Comparatively early elimination of our journalistic friend - ped Gus Hitch aa Dalkcusle-A an a] was rather rough, but the playing Offers Engineering Courses
ke Munro, can » Sage up chee lack of practice and perhaps just a little B teams were victorious against ae) er ee oe too ieee Hagin in
a to the loss of the former e. MM and Y.W.C.A. and the Young, e Dal first line proved to be the
Be Exchanges tell us that the Mount Allison Argosy Weekly has ceased ue hee Po oe ac bebhi ct ihe it bet wan naced well CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
. publishing a sport page. We stumble on in a limited way but are at times sity Kae ty beat the Y’s|by Reardon, Sperry and Kline. The||| Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
j to Rufus Rayne. There has been little spectively. am peat wwe a é To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas
f: tempted to turn the space over to Kutus Kayne. 18 to 10 on Monday; on Wednesday| St. Mary’s men, although lacking
drop in actual news to be covered this year so far. f ..,_|the ”B’s” trounced the Y.P.C.L. by| weight, displayed their usual speed. Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience
A. drop is expected early in the New Year with no intercollegiate | 01 to 9. which gave them a slight edge on Write or call for Calendar or advice to
\ basketball or girl’s sport, but the page is continuing. We have not had . | the attack. Clever passing plays F. H. SEXTON, President
: to yet, as in the case of Mount Allison, strain every faculty to get life were also trie df by the eollopians and - BH. ;
into interfaculty competition. eo eg - 2 HE MORE THAN these brought them in on Munro
a As this is the last issue before Christmas, the us greetings ‘time and time again. Heese Ae ewes
‘ * ' . = a ae Se
} everyone and the hope that you all get nice passes to start the New Year. DO U B L E D Sak althiauty start raved its | é
| See you in ’41. 4 is Mi O ies EY! have the necessary ability to keep (
i . their opponents guessing. The main | M e,¢ .
| * | : _ aritime Christmas Recess ¢
He 4 ° Gam In | weakness of the Tigers was their in- (
ee oak : 3 thite yf
a Law, Commerce First e | ability to keep the red and whi >
t e . |men out of the Dal goal mouth. For-| ¢ All Classes Adjourn on FRIDAY, DEC. 20th, 1940
| Hoop Winners | Junior Series fein age eae omen hte na |
t ‘and the defence did not click at all| ) Both Day and Evening Classes Reassemble on
} In the opening game of the eve-| Dal will play her first game of | during the contest. ¢ , ; . ‘ (
ning, Law extended their winning|the Intermediate Basketball League | ie a ge el | MONDAY, JANUARY 6th, 1941 (
streak to two straight games by de-|next week. About fifteen players'| | and Doig formed the forwarc com-|§ :
x feating Arts’ & Science 37-13. are turning out for practice and | binations used by the Tigers for a| ) Ne uete | ar
The lawyers used their height and|from these Coach Ralston has pick- ‘second time. | € ENTER ANY DAY GRADUATE ANY MONTH ’
greater experience to pile up a sub-|ed a tentative team. On the line-up | Penalties were handed out freely) ¢ ;
stantial lead in the first half which| against King’s will be Wilson, | by Referee Beazley with nine ses-/ / ‘ :
eee ls eee Sin oy Bee Beaey wit n= (MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE. |
tas fame. In the first half, Anderson) Martin, Green, Boyd, and G. Smith.) jof both teams. The periods played ? 73 College Street Halifax, N.S. (
fe each scored three baskets! A definite arrangement as to the) Actual Case Histor | were limited to fifteen minutes 80] ) vere bc] : 4 es )
\ and Lyall g rat J De ae eed ich ice E. KAULBACH, C. A., Principal
|. to pace the winners, while Forsythe] division of players between the in- | of Policy No. 42,973 hs ae nemo : f mh Racked ) {
| scored three for the losers. The half| termediate and senior league from | As a thrifty youth, this man bought a eee ' | dee a ES a
} ended with law leading 18-7. the limited number that are truning Mutual Life of Canada $1,000 En- Sere ori 4
| Oat co half et ahaa ye . ‘oi oe game ST ae er he Shane cA toe oe eee Ere roe
rson, fiercey ©) PERO | COMPO : Premiums for 40 years......$816.00
| scored many baskets. Forsythe,| start until the first of the New) Dividends amiuiied io. +++ $368.93
rf Barrett and Harrison, each scored) Year, Most of the players ready to ee ery Set were,
b a basket for Arts & Science. In| play are of senior calibre and the .. .for a policy worth $1,000.00
ms this half law outscored their op-| response to the first practices after Na te eee rarer ing $100
ponents 19-6. exams and the last ones this year invested PLUS $1000 protection for 40 | Vegan Sete FF ee ee ei aoe oe! fees:
Law: Anderson 11, Hutchins 2,/will decide whether the Tigers wil! ee Rit at Oe Cun te tale un
Hanway 4, Lyall 6, Piercey 10, Mc-| remain entered in the intermediate eid aricteet ee
Ritchie 4. circuit. *The above is a definite ) ey
} Arts and Science: Forsythe 8,| Prospects for taking the first) sc bistor. Wedo nor SERVE | io See
ie Fraser, Diamond 1, Boite, Barrett 2,| ¢ame are good, with fast and ex- us same results, ree BY SAVING! oe ATi h'f .
ee 3 2 3 ividends must be War Savings ie fe
pe Harrison 2, perienced players ready to take the commensurate with eisai twas gies
ae floor. There will only be the one But in any event all at all Mutual seem rh ARB fe
. Engineers kept pace with Law by game before the vacation period. bsg ek ope aes BO 1 2 Life of Canada ©
; winning from Medicine by default. only eeere ot the } Branch Offices. xNnVviqduog
4 The Meds failed to put a team on| . ere «ET lob lol ibe)
os the floor. The folowing turned out| winning column by defeating a num- THE | s
‘s for Engineers: Vail, MacKenzie,|erically weak Freshmen team. T | Sy O AV r b
Dp - James, Dumont, Solomon. Neither side had a full team, but |
PS This win puts Engineers in tie|the one man advantage proved to OF CANADA |
; with Law for first place in the|be the deciding factor in the Com- Established 1869 |
ne standing. merece win. Head Office Waterloo, Ont. |
s In the remaining fixture of the} Lineups: “Owned by the Policyholders”’
og evening, Commerce broke into the} Commerce: Matthew 10, DeWolf 8,
e ee || Boyd 12, Sparkes 4.
Freshmen: Lowe 4, Eisner 4, Zatz; . man 14.
This Ne Sg | ee me EXPERTLY MEASURED
| ~ by M. MacKeigan ik AT TIP TCP TAILORS
f eardon Is Fall
e GROUND HOCKEY .
The failure of Red's tem to show| Ping Pong Champ e+. IS PERFECTLY FITTED
up (and the snow) made it impos- AT TIP TOP TAILORS
a sible to have the annual skirmish
Rit the boys in ground hockey, but] | Henry Reardon won the Fall Ping ....IS COMPLETELY SATISFIED
BL perhaps it is just as well, because Pong Championship Saturday when
Pg there is usually such a list of casual- he defeated Dave Doig 21-16, 18-21, AT TIP TOP TAILORS
ry ties after the game. 17-21, 14-21, 21-18, 21-19, 25-23.
Ms, | This was one of the most closely Ask the College Man who’s been in !
Pe PING PONG contested matched played here in a J
F The ping pong ladder tournament! long time. 5¢ Hand-Cut and
i is already well under way. Put your] Reardon entered the tournament Over 500 be Tailored to Your
fi: name at the bottom and rise to the| by defeating Colin Smith and then ag ee Personal
; top! Forbes Mountain and Verne Graham British Woolens
a oe, Measurements
to go into the finals. Doig eliminat- 8.75
4 BASKETBALL ed Zatzman and Blois and came to - AND COATS — $28.
ae There will be basketball practice the finals without a loss of a game. BADIES TAILORED-TO-MEASURE SUITS

 
   
  
   
    
     
 

.

as usual an Friday at 5.30, with
supper in the Homestead after practice. Let’s have a really good turnout!

 

‘i GYM CLASSES

Bs | The regular gym classes for

  

eshettes stop this week; all who
have cuts to make up must do so

before exams, and there will be
re classes next week for this purpose.

be

oe. es wy a

vs) iu. L i

Pad Pee! he a

es Pa robs I © Fd at oN steep
i ie?

A)

  

Colin Smith, manager of the sport,
is well pleased with the outcome
shown in the tournament. He plans
another and more extensive one in
the spring, with the winner playing
off for the University Championship.
In the meantime a ladder tournament will be run off.

The doubles tournament is advancing into the final round and
should be completed this week.

 

 
 

 

 

:

she TOP...
TAILORS ¢.0

422 BARRINGTON STREET

_——
