   
    
  
   

a

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion &

ATTEMPTED INVASION THIS SPRING?
A slight majority of those asked believed that there will be an attempted invasion of Britain this Spring, ie., before June 21st. 56% gave
fa) “yen” to their answer, while 30% said unequivocally that no such at
tempt would be made, and 14% more said to ask the Fuhrer. Notable
were two members of the A.T.C. who said that there would be an inva
sion, but to be sure to put down that it would fail. They also claimed,

F 5 =~ ws

Da,

end

  
 

oo

Ze
‘ 
4

% Y ™

.  a |

He

~ Maleolm.

 
    
   
 
   
  
   
     
  
    
     
  
    
      
    
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
 
  

}
ae
R, [2 i .
wr!
\ *
(ee
:

x
,
ar fat
pele:
7 aa
‘2. }ae os

. : 2
cf ”
"

iota

a

— /
,”
Pe

te
ay

r r

Bei
js

¥

_ who are this year receiving their

ster Macdonald.

oh

f  1928—Murray M, Rankin.
«Sack “W. Merrit.

fs

Bry!

mi.

 1982—Robt. MacG. Brown.

ivy

‘ “
>

since no one else mentioned this, that they should be put down as 100% of
those who were asked. They weren’t asked.
Core ee .

PARTICIPATION IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES?

An attempt was made this week to learn in some measure what part
Dal students are taking in student affairs. In this, more than in some
other things, there is quite a wide margin of error. The proportion
writing for the Gazette at Studley is probably lower than the sample,
while surely there are more debaters at Forrest.

Interfaculty and intercollegiate sport have the highest proportion of
students, 49% having at some time or other taken part in some branch
of this, 51% keeping entirely clear of athletic fame. The boys at Forrest
are apparently better athletes than the Studleyites, mustering 56% as
against 40%. This is probably explained by the predominant maleness,
for boys did distinctly better on this than the girls did.

- Next most popular form of student participation is the Gazette, for
which 31% had written something at somertime or other. Studley had
the better record here, 44% to 21%, which is somewhat hard to explain,
since the the Med Journal was included in the quiz along with the Oldest
College Weekly in America. :

Next in rank was Ruth MacQuarrie’s Glee Club, which had 28% of
students taking part in plays sometime in their career. Such difference
as there is between the ends of the college favoured Forrest, with 31%
against 24%. Ranking positively lowest were debates. 9% of all Dalhousie students have apparently taken part in debates here. The disproportion between the campuses is especially notable here. Studley produced 18% of sometime debaters, Forrest not a single one. Surely some
debating lawyers must have been missed. Worthy of mention is one girl
who said she had never taken part in a debate but that she had often
argued in meetings.

MALCOLM AWARD Discuss Report

There is no greater honor at Dalhousie University than to be chosen
to membership in the Malcolm Honor Society by the students of the
university. No greater tribute could
be paid to a Dalhousian than to be
chosen a member of a society to
perpetuate the memory of Jimmy

 

Notwithstanding the illness of our
President Mr. Sparkes, The Effective Speaking Club held a most
interesting session last Monday evening in the Arts Building. The
fascinating topic, “ Rowell -Sirois
Report” attracted such well know
campus orators as Ross Graham, ’41,
John Windebank (Honours student),

The committee of five are now Edmund Morris, a well

carefully choosing the person or
persons whom they think would
be the choice of the student body
in making the award. One must
have unselfishly devoted time and
talent to the service of his fellow students. At the same time
his scholastic standard must be
good and he must in every way
merit the respect of his professora as well as of his student
friends.

The choice is made

promising Freshman.

Some suggested the average Cana
report (mirable dictu). It was even
Suggested that the average Dalhousian doesn’t know so much about
it. In fact, it was reported (perish

dent doesn’t know very much about
Canada. Does Mr. Hepburn belong
to the province of Manitoba? Is he
a Social Crediter? Is Mr. Aberhart
the Conservative Premier of Ontario? Is Mr. Pattullo a C. C. F:
premier of P.E.I,?

Perhaps that’s going a little too
far. We were just trying to kid
you. Don’t allow yourselves to be
fooled You Are All Dalhousians,
You must awake and study this report! It is your duty as a loyal
Canadian. If you argue that the
politicians did not give it a fair trial
see that you, at least, will not fail
to study it. That is your preroga
ee That is democracy’s elixir of
ife.

Professor G, E. Curtis, of the Dalhousie Law School added a few very
timely remarks in regard to Public
Speaking. You should not write a
long speech out and memorize it,
However, it is quite in order to
memorize your conclusion. In doing
So you are crystallizing your address. Get the main points of your
Speech across in a clear-cut fashion.

from those

degrees. The selection committee
this year is made up of Dr. Hugh
Bell, Dr. George Wilson, Joan
Blackwood, Mike Smith and Web
The voice of Webster Macdonald will reveal the winner of the
Malcolm Honor Award over C.H.

N.S. next Thursday evening be
tween 6.30 and 7 p.m. He will be

given two minutes on the air.

Names of the students who have

been elected to the Malcolm Honor

Society since its inauguration are:
_ 1927—Avis H. Marshall.
Fred W. MacInnis.

led

Le .
hs ANN ee

J. Gerald Godsoe,

_ 1980—Arthur L. Murphy.
- 1931—Fred C. Jennings.
Gertrude W. Hempill.
- Thomas A. Goudge.

3 d
2
by

  

| Anderson.

a) Cc. ) The average audience can only dia. cen gest so many. Think in terms of
| ayne McKie. the average member of your audizas ence. Don’t talk about abstract

things when you address the Boiler
}

:

dian knows very little about this.

the thought) that our average stu-|

a
ncn eee nnn Senn EEIEREEEIEREREEEEeEnEEEERREEEEEEEREEEEEEREEE
=

" a a i #

ry a pen <i

: net ONE Bel Vee
a , i ae tire),

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 21, 1941

“SOCIETIES CHOOSE CANDIDAT

 

Bert Vail

A new award has been made ii
the Engineering Society to perpetuate the memory of the late Bob
Walter, a truly fine fellow

King’s and Dalhousie, who lost his | gy

life last fall in a hunting accident.
Bert Vail of Sydney, N. S., has
been chosen by his fellow students
this year as being the one who is
most endowed with the fine masculine characteristics and sportsmanship which were most outstanding
in the personality of Bob Walter.
Bert entered Dal in 1937 and this
year he will receive his B.Sc. degree
and his engineering diploma. He

has played senior basketball for |POrt of the students when the latthree years and intermediate bas-|%% are approached and asked to

ketball for two. He is secretarytreasurer of his society, as well as
representing their interests in the
D.A.A.C.

In serving his fellow students
he has filled the positions of football, hockey and basketball manager
for the Engineers. Bert spent two
years on the Junior rifle team and
the same amount of time in the
©..0. Toe.

Next year our rough and ready,
“give and take” athlete from Syd
known | ney will be at McGill University,
campus wit, together with many a} Where he will finish his course in

Engineering. Congratulations and

best of luck, Bert!

Commerce Elect’

Officers

The Commerce Society met in the
Arts Building on Thursday for the
election of next year’s officers, and
nominees for Students’ Council election on March 4th.

President for next year will be
Bob Blois; Vice-President, Norrie
Douglas; Secretary-Treasurer, Owen
DeWolfe; D.A.A.C. representative,
John Serymageour.

Dave Doig and Jack Matthews
were chosen as nominees to contest
for a place on the Students’ Council
next year. This election takes place
on the big voting day, March 4th.

The financial report was read,
showing a small surplus. Jack
Chappell expressed the thought of
a realist in his suggestion to have
a class banquet

The meeting was unanimous in
their apprecation of the these uncertain days, when a quick change
of events, or even without the
quick change, their funds might
sink into oblivion. A committee in
charge includes: Del Gibson, Cy
Kempton and Jack Chappell.

 

 

makers, ete. Be specific, clear and
concise.

A hearty invitation is extended to
any Dal student who would like to
attend our next meeting. Watch the
bulletin board.

Wyn

 

 
    

|

 

'
|

1 | council

|

|
|

 

“ir : va

hp

  

No. 16

 

 

Committee

For President
Chosen

Medicine and Law also opposed,, with Graham
and MacIntosh for Vice-Presidency.

The student government body of, Joe MacDougall’s capabilities have
Dalhousie met last Sunday for an been displayed at the Forrest camimportant session at which candi- pus, where he is now in third year
dates were selected to see who will | Med. Joe hails from Cape Breton,
fill the executive posts of president | and having received his Bachelor
and vice-president of the Council|of Science degree at St. Francis
next year. After careful thought | Xavier, he is not well known to the

2 _and deliberation, the nominees were|undergraduates at Studley. But
year as a day when al! Dalhousians |

 

At last Sunday’s meeting of the
Council of Students, a committee of
three was chosen to make arrangements for a successful student holion March I1th.
Tuesday in March is set aside each

day The second

; chosen from the Law and Med/jsince his entrance to Dalhousie in
honor their great benefactor of | schools, The entire student body 2288, he has proven himself a most
former days, James Munro. The! will go to the polls on March 4th! valued member of the Medical. So
committee includes: Dewar Mac-|to decide who will fill these éf- Lelety. He has been vice-president
Leod, Louise Bishop and a third | fices in addition to Glee Club, D.A.|of his class for two years and a
person A.C., ete. Candidates for the latter|co-editor of the Medical Journal
| organizations have yet to be named. | While in his second year, his fellow
| For President: “Webby” ‘students chose him to represent
The New Dalhousie Swing Band | ald vs. Joe MacDougall. Continued on page four
has received the support of the For Vice-Pres.: “Dooley ’ MaclIn- |
and will furnish at least | tosh vs. Bernard Graham.
some of the music on March 11th. |
The twelve young musicians, under

whom we shall call Ernie

Energy. :
bY Macdon
ARTS CANDIDATES

At a short, business-like meeting

Allow us to say something about
the candidates for the presidency:

 

of | the direction of our own Don Warn-| Webster Macdonald hails from|yesterday noon, the Arts & Science
made a favourable impression] Kentville, N. S. He came to Dal-| Society nominated ten people to run
upon the Glee Club audience last|housie in 1937 with an entrance |for the Council elections on March

Friday. I think you will agree that
with the proper encouragement, the
New Swing Band may well amount
to something at Dalhousie.

4th. Of these five will be elected
and in 1940 he received his degree | by the student body. Those nomwith honors in Public Administra-|inated were:

tion. He is now in his first year at | Men:

Permission was given Delta | the Law School. Jeff Bagnall, Don Kirkpatrick,
Gamma to hold a Sadie Hawkins| Webby’s activities and energy |John Windebank, John Fraser.
Dance on March 8rd, in the Gym-|have been used to good advantage} Two to be elected.
nasium. That will be a real party.|in varied endeavours. In the liter- eee S ane Sceaas

' |ary field he has had an outstanding| “Mary boswell, Daphne ristie,

Pe Sete Geer We Sethe. Bap moenE editor of the King’s College | Louise Bishop, Inez Smith.

Record, winner of the James De- ae = be elected.

turn over their small caution deposit Mille Essay Prize, editor of the Class ee ‘die. Bob M h

prea ths, FM Sind Fis Cross | Dalhousie Gazette, and this year he Christine = a? ob Murphy.

drive for funds. Half of your con- |gave us the Students’ Directory.| One to = apeabaney

tribution will help destitute stu- For the past two years he has play- John Windebank gave a short ad
dents in foreign lands, while the ed on the senior rugby and hockey dress on the joint Red Cross and

other half will be used to aid the |*©2™s: He more than acquits him-/|1I.S8.S. campaign being conducted on

¥ad-T ones in, tha ongemous ‘wartives self in boxing, badminton and ten-|the campus at the present time,

tale nis. His robust nature and person-|especially explaining the functions
‘ality make him well known at Dal.|of the I.S.S.

scholarship as a student in Arts

 

- START RUNNIN’

 

L'il Abner, Daisy Mae, Pappy Scragg -- Feudi’n' Fury F'um Dogpatch

If, on March 8rd, yo’ feel ajwill be a shin diggin’ in the “Jim”.|axe or apple cider jug; they may
mighta big smash on the haid, and|The girls .do all the honours: yo’|drop huge boulders on yo’ if yo’ is
reckon that some hen-hussy is aJall put them thar’ countryfolk cos-|a walkin’ through Sherriff Haul
draggin’ yo’ to the Jimnayzeeoom,|tumes on, Daisy Mae calls fo’ you’, Woulds, they may steel the “guns”
yo’ all is doomed! None matter} makes yo’ dance, probably kisses|}at C.O.T.C. ™% master’s stores and
who the gal is, she is Daisy Mae!| yo’ with that city folk lipstick, and|shoot yo’ dead. S’long as they git
Every gal is Daisy Mae on March|in general makes life mo’ than | summin’ who is all a-warin’ pants!
3rd. mizzuble.

Mammy and Pappy Yokum, all| There is no rooles attached as to| ‘+ is worth the risk of bein’ kilt
the Dogpatch celebrities, plus the|what them thar’ girls can do. They |to attend the Shindig on March 3rd.
feudin’ gang from Skunk Hollow/can bash yo’ teeth in with a meat-/... Don’t fergit!

 

ES FOR ELECTIONS

WINS AWARD Munro Day ‘Macdonald & MacDouéall

 

 

 

=i

  
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
   

   
 

  

Halifax, N, S.

tree’

   

      
  
 
  
  
  
  

B-9746
B-3148
B-9586
B-9746
B-4421
B-9746
B-3674
B-5635
B-5724
B-9746
B-2753
B-2717

    

0-3 9 2SE en od. ee ae

18S eee 8 Va ee Se

o> fa DS ge Ue ee! oe ae ees
0 ESS a Ee oe 1 ae ae
a fe eS EEE OR ee eee
y 20-65 OR eR ee eee ee

    

FARET H s B-9746
Oditor:; PENNY PATCHEL B-9746
ager: INEZ SMITH - - - B-1049
ness Manager: MARY JOHNSON B-9746

 

   
   

 

| ON STUDENT ELECTIONS _ :

the first week in March rolls around again, and the time
otir g draws near, it would perhaps be well to examine the
inery for nominations and elections at Dalhousie, as well
. ingredients needed to make a strong active Council.
ssions on the method of nomination are rather discouraged

PIS

   
   
    
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
   
 

i ; Dalhousie. People seem to think that the whole affair should
be tinge mith a high degree of sanctity, solemnity, and silence.

    

m, and there is no reason to suppose that we have been
oan or lucky enough to choose the system best suited

"sg resen nominations for next year’s President and
Pesdent ee from the existing Student Council. Last’
mday, the Council, with twelve members present, chose from
the entire student body two men to run for the Presidency.

or os =

oe ar —
at por a
Pe Aa

  

ese that the students wished to vote? The answer
is rh didn’t, they only hoped that it was so. The same
method is used for nominating the two candidates for VicePresident. Also the Glee Club executive nominate the people

who are to run for Glee Club offices, and so do the D.A.A.C.

‘or their officers.

‘ag te coats, supporters of the present system may urge, the
members of the Student Council are our representatives, and
as such should have a good idea of the opinions of the students
_* on these matters. Perhaps so, but whoever heard of the House
of Commons nominating the candidates for the next election!
The Council no doubt do the best they can, and it is amazing
the fine job they usually make of it, but the present system is
_ subject to severe limitations. eb
- gee the present system most of the democratic privilege
implied in voting is taken from us. In a democracy, the general
idea is that people have a right to vote for any man who they
_ think is fitted to govern them. But at Dathousie, we have only
the privilege of choosing between two picked candidates. In
other words, if you don’t vote for Bergen, you have to vote for
McCarthy. Even if the student body were not allowed to
_ choose their own candidates, at least they might be allowed to
know on what grounds other eligible men were rejected for
nomination. But last Sunday’s meeting, upholding the good a
tradition, was held “in camera.” There are, of course, good
grounds for this. Personalities, of necessity, always have to be
- discussed at such a meeting, and it is not good that such talk
- should be dragged into the limelight. On the other hand, if!

such meetings are not reported publicly, how are we to know

_ whether members of the Council voted objectively, or whether
someone was influenced by his own personal likes or dislikes.
hen twelve people have to pick two people out of a crowd of
ate ght hundred, it is humanly impossible to avoid personal
prejudices. °
_____ Having been destructive, let us now be constructive. There
is at least one objective scheme which could be carried out
ame ng the small electorate that we have without too much

uss or trouble. It would involve two voting days. On the first
you would be given an absolutely blank ballot. On this you
ould write the name of the person for whom you wished to
yote, That person could be any Dalhousie student. The second
voting day could be held a week later. This time one would be
handed a ballot with several names printed on it, and you
would mark your choice. The names on the second ballot
_ would include the man who had received the most votes at the
first balloting, together with any others who had received a
certain percentage, say twenty per cent, of his vote. For
example, on the first voting day John Smith might have re-_ eeived the most votes, say three hundred. Then his name
__ would be on the second ballot, together with the names of all
those people who had received sixty votes or more. The person
__who received the largest number of votes on the second balloting would become President, while the runner-up would be
_ Vice-President. This would seem a far better arrangement
_ than the present bureaucratic one. .
_ ‘There are several other things that might be mentioned
about the coming election. It is usual for the Gazette to exhort

_ studes to turn out to the Student Forums and listen to the

leeches. Usually the editorial also states that it is the duty
every citizen to go to the polls. Obviously the college mind
s too well-trained to be influenced by newspaper editorials.

a cit *
oy

a es
ee
=!

    
 
  
 
    
   
   
   
  
    
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
   
   
   
   
 

i rr = a

    
   
      
     
  
     

 
 
     
 

 

  
  

Me
re

e
Ty

i; £

 
 

  

 

  

a ok. YEAR BOOK
_ _ Practically all colleges in the United States and Canada
iblish Year Books. A great deal of work and expense-goes
nto the preparation of these publications and they are kept
with a great deal of pleasure and pride to be looked back on
_when the all too short years of attendance at college are passed
- and the memories of college years become more and more
=< mellow. |.

ay he last couple of years splendid year books have been
_-groduced- b This year the price

       
 

   

     
   
   
  
  

 

| ut the sales have been small.
_ has been reduced from $2.00 to $1.50 to see if this would make
_ any difference in the sale. Due to the high cost of covers, it is
_ @ssential that none be wasted. Therefore only those who order
_ and pay for Year Books in advance will be able to secure them.
_ Do not hesitate. ORDER YOUR YEAR BOOK NOW from any
f the following: Rosa eth MacQuarrie, Bernice Morse, Penny

   
 
 
  
 
  

  
  

e er, Inez Smith, Harry Smith, Frank

  

L§Aacgonaic

 

 

ae a

tee a “ {LS en ee bai

i ee ela

Gy ¥ Pinay | a nN
ei :

} » al 4 ee ‘ F ’ fe
‘ } ran .

5 4

    

    
 
 

  

; * 4]
Ley
Mane
‘

ie" A 7
a. | he hae
Rs Q
Ry \T

  

 

REV. HUGH MACMILLAN

Missionary on furlough from Formosa, General Secretary of the
Student Christian Movement of
Canada, and Secretary of the Missionary Committee.

Mr. MacMillan was born in Bruce
County, Ontario. His university

shy? There are a great many different methods of nom-| studies were interrupted by military.

service overseas in the last year of
the Great War. Following the
Armistice, he completed the work
for the B.A. and B.D, degrees, the
latter at Knox College, Toronto, In
1924, he and his wife sailed for
Formosa under the Presbyterian

7. that position we must elect one of these men, nilly-willy. Church of Canada, On their first
Fit how. a cay ask, did the Council know that it was upon'furlough, Mr. MacMillan travelled
How,

for the S.C.M., helped to organize
the Canadian delegation to the Student Volunteer Conference at Buffalo, and took his M.A. degree from
the University of Toronto. Since
returning to Formosa in 1933, he has
taught in the Theological College
and acted as Honorary Secretary of
the Christian Youth Movement.
During the summer of 1939, Mr. and
Mrs. MacMillan, with their children,
accompanied the Japanese delegation to the World Conference of
Christian Youth at Amsterdam. For
a second time, Mr. MacMillan has
been released by the Presbyterian
Board of Foreign Missions to serve
the Student Christian Movement of
Canada,

Mr. MacMillan will be in Halifax
next week, and plans are being made
for him to meet with various student and graduate groups. The
following is a tentative program for
the five days of his visit:

Monday, Feb. 24th—

8 p.m. Meeting with S.C.M. Executive.

Tuesday, Feb. 25th—

12 noon. Open meeting in Room 8,
Arts Building.

8 p.m. General student meeting,
St. Andrew’s Hall, Coburg Road.
Thursday, Feb. 27th—

6 p.m. Supper meeting with Halifax Advisory Board.

8 p.m. Meeting with graduate
groups.

Friday, Feb. 28th—
.8 p.m. General fireside meeting,

Mr. MacMillan is a man of wide

experience and should have much of

interest and value to communicate
to us at Dalhousie. You are cordially invited to meet him at one or
more of these meetings.

————— ee ee tesserae
_—_—

LETTER TO THE
EDITORS

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette
Dear Madam,

I have been moved to write this
letter by two events of the past
week which I think should not be
allowed to go unnoticed.

The first and foremost was a
question asked hy a student at a
recent class meeting. “What is the
War Effort doing for us.” This
question shows definite lack of patriotism and a deplorable lack of
knowledge of the position in which
our Country and Empire stand
today. We, you and I and our
friends, are the war effort and the
war effort does for us just what we
do for it. This war has as its first
aim the preservation of liberty and
freedom in the world. Not liberty
for nations alone but for the individual, for every individual who is
fitted and ready to observe the conventions of a free and democratic
society. We in Canada, especially
the students, are very fortunate to
be able to continue our lives in a
very normal way—we do not have
to run for a shelter everytime we
hear an aeroplane overhead nor do

 

REVIEW

A Study of History
(Vol. 3)

Professor Arnold Toynbee

To the ordinary tayman, accustomed in his historical readings to
rather drab chronologies of recorded
facts, the scientific analysis of Professor Toynbee comes as a fascination exposition of the importance
and interest of a subject too long
the property of propagandists and
of myopic patriots with an axe to
grind. Here is the sure touch of
the scholar, the man perfectly at
ease with every phase of his vast
subject, cognizant of the importance
of his work and at the same time
able to present his interpretation
with the literary ease of a man of
letters and the enthusiasm of an
evangelist. Toynbee surveys the
panorama of the activity-of man up
through the ages without the defeatism and disillusion that mar the
work of Oswald Spengler. He has
the capacity of seeing things not
only in detail but in relationship,
that marks the work of an historian
like Beard, but with more objective
detachment than the latter. Under
his masterly touch, history becomes
a vital thing, pregnant with significance, interesting not only for its
own sake, but also because it holds
the key to the future, if man but
cares to apply it.

His central theme is that history
consists of a series of challenges
and responses — from the environment to the civilization that is attempting to grow up. If the tourde-forece that the challenge evokes
is not overpowering, equilibrium is
reached, followed by overbalancing,
with subsequent new problems and
a new series of challenges and responses, As the civiliziations grow
they pass from a lower to a higher
plane, and the challenge gradually
progresses from the external one of
the environment, to the internal
moral one of social relationships. It
is this challenge that he sees facing
western civilization and to which as
yet there has been no response.

To Professor Toynbee history is
not only an art but a science.
his great study, in which the volume
here discussed is but a part, he
makes a valiant atempt to clutch
at the hem of Destiny and to reveal
the portent of things to come.

 

we have to continue our studies in
bombed, burned, and partially demolished buildings. In essence then
this war effort is enabling us to
continue our studies under almost
ideal conditions, we have excellent
facilities and they are being continuously improved in spite of the
war. If the war effort fails will we
be able or allowed to continue our
studies under these conditions? ‘ihe
answer is NO! To the victor go the
spoils and the Huns have shown
themselves to be experts at exacting
payment from those they have defeated.

The second disturbing factor on
this campus is the objection of certain students to Military Training.
Admitted that this training is not,
in our eyes, ideal or practical, but
who are we to decide these things?
The course in military training has
been laid down by more experienced
iminds than ours, minds with years
of experience, and it is our duty to
carry out their decisions. If we ccntinue this policy of non-coperation,
|force will have to be exacted on us
| and in the not too far distant future.

Let us in the future act like in| teltigent people, let us appreciate
| our opportunities and, | might say,
| blessings. Wake up, Dalhousie,
ea the situation as it is and do
your part to further the war effort
against the powers of evil which
\hasten to overcome all fine and
_ civilized peoples.

Yours truly,
CHARLES ROBERTS.

Malcolm Award —

(Continued from page one)

1935—Berth Atherton.
Fred Wigmore.
1986—Elizabeth Ballem.
Helen Belyea.
Ernie Richardson.
Harry Sutherland.
James Muir,
1987—Gordon H. Thompson.
1988—Edward Barnhill.
1939—Irene Pentz.
1940—Joan Blackwood.

sess hss

 

\

In|

 

 
 
  
    
 
    

 
  

  
 
 
   
     
   
   
 
   
   
  

 
  
  
   

   

"How does it feel to be the lion of the party?”
"It’s just like getting Sweet Caps from home!"

   

 
     
   
   

   

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

   
  
 
 
    

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
NOVA SCOTIA

The National Fish Company, Limited

HALIFAX

_—_

   

WALLACE SHOES

Sterling or
Silver Plate?

Both have their place
in today’s living... at
Birks you will find the
finest of each.

Birks Sterling and
Birks Regency Plate—
the standard of excellence for Canada .

Henry Birks &
Sons

Diamond Merchants

Now is the time

For Ski Boots
and SKATING OUTFITS

for Men and Women
Wide Range of Styles

Priced from $3.95 to $11 |
Wallace Bros.
|

Limited
415 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

- Farmers’ Milk 1s
RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME
YOU’LL LIKE IT.

SS

—$—$

   

    
    
 

FARMERS’ LIMITED
NOVA SCOTIA

  
   

   

HALIFAX

 
    
     

 

      
     
   

 

Dalhousie Untuersity

|
| Halifax, Nova Scotia

   
     
  
 

  
 
  
  
  

  
 
 
   

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

    

|
|
Arts and Science Faculty
Degrees: B.A., B.Se.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.

     
  

Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Sc.

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

    
     
      
       

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 
        
   
 
  
    

 
  
    

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year,

 
 
  
   
  

 
   
  
 
 
 
  

Residence

Shirveff Hall, residence for women.
y supervised residential facilities for men.

 
 
 

  
   

 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
    
    
    

ae ihe nod i
be fairesied t6. find ont
eal one, Then the story be
ao morning he turns up in
rilling new uniform. Quizzed on
he s ect, Chas. replied, “No, I
ly see one Major Hogan, I don’t
think there’s another like him, at
‘i; *
"Bird was promoted in the O.T.C.,
_ but my friend Bashow got two pro3 _ motions, one in Materia Medica, the
ay - other one by “honest” means. Quoth
_ Bash: “Barb., old boy, fetch me a
i pose papah!” Or, let’s be honest—maybe be dioatt,

*

*

wet Bi Da kb ees Paik. lab. was a
beck r, white, fuzzy little animal.
“An Ascheim on the loose” shouted
_ Piano-legs Smith, G. M. “Oh, Ashby!” “Bunny hell!” came back an

*

a + atuthey were Vernon Street Meds
a they telephoned number after
__ ‘number oe found only one girl

* . *

And after such a long time spent in
asking “Who’s Zoe and what’s she
- like?” the boys were treated by
_ Jimmy Belmanno. It’s not the first
time this has happened, either.
YR C'S oe
Blonde preference has gone by the
board as Dr. Smith hinted. Ability
r with the vocal cords and many other
_ points have downed Bomber Feindel
_ for what looks like a healthy count,

* «2

Tall, dark and quiet Gladys has
Lighthouse MacVicar staring into
space. Brothers who know the symptoms are worried. Also they fret
- about one independent MacQuarrie,

_ who was actually sick enough to
_ drive to Bedford and back before
and after the dance. MacQ. consoles

himself with, “Oh well, look at
_. . MacG.—yeah, but she can cook!”
ffs age

ise

Ki ‘ Also very much in evidence were
tae Newfie Watson with one of the live
ly Kerr family, Bethune (need we
say more?) and Hep-Cat Jamieson
with a beautiful gal and other important things.

*

* *

_ Literary-minded (let’s supposing)
Benge Atlee invited the boys in, and
_ fools who came to scoff, remained.
We never thought we’d see these
hard-boiled Meds entertained by a
musical evening. Maybe the magnetic personality and unique modes

of expression of their host is part |.

| of the answer.

* * *

ee phy after Als gene was shelled.

pe will be on his head in a few
years. Mike (P.L) Smith thought
aol had removed it, but Leo was

*

Phen there was y episode when

os! “Sore-feet” Wilson got caught in a

_ cage and Mike had to feed him peaTeoma but ask them about it; they

re Late Flash:
Bun “Even though we’ve hardly met
eet each other,

| va like to introduce you to my
my mother,”

a layed with variations by Samuel
y Shirley as Papa Shirley was condue od to foriteewater last week
P) s

wi > te : > | ‘f
j
{ hi BSS aa a

 

 
  
 
  

oN

LUNATIC

Episode Six entitled: How little
doth the Fizzleque Improve the
shining U-pi-dee or: Rotting to
the corpse.

 

Corpses, corpses, always it’s
corpses, said Lester de Pester, flailing the air with his broom in mock
anger, an action highly displeasing
to Major Hokum who walked by at
the moment and received the upholstered end of the instrument on the
left lower bicuspid. Put more life
into it'my man said Hokum picking
himself out of the far corner of the
gym and confusedly adopting the
notion that he was speaking to one
of his Clumsy Oxes Tap-room Corps
at bayonet practice, and don’t let me
see you down at ’ollis Street again,
Now then try it once more , and
put those six dummies back in their
frames. Dummies be double-damned, said the exitable janitor-de-luxe
heatedly, it’s corpses again, that’s
wot it is. I only just get the place
smellin sweet again after that
Khaki-kolored son of a dog’s mistress disintegrating on the floor
and along comes six more. Its disrespectful to the workingclass of
this university, that’s wot it is. I
think so, and my comrade janitor,
Jar-face thinks so, too. And so does
the author of this filthy corpse-corrupted colnmn, and I unquote.

Nonetheless, Hokum, refusing to
allow his forceful aspirations to).
waste their fragments on the desert
air, repeated the command verbatim,
in toto and ipso facto so that six
trembling members of the A. T. C,
(aimless taproom corps) laid reluct
.| ant hands on the six corpses and in
stalled them in the wooden frames
where they swayed lugubriously,
rattling as the approaching Clumsy
Oxes. clumped by in their leather |
shod hoofs, three deep and armed
with gleaming bayonets and sardonic smiles,
The Slacker

Caporal Tin-horne was  fastidiously putting his number-five-spit
oon through their drill, snarling

 

“eT he:
Pig Sty

Bobby Mussett seems to have
parted with certain Fraternity hardware. These ferryboat rides must
be wearing down his resistance.
This must be an open season on
Phi Delts.

 

 

x * *

And speaking of open seasons,
the season on Kay is closed again.
It was too good to last. Remember our earlier warning, Bill: Abstinence makes the heart grow

fonder.

* aK *

The question of the week seems

to be, will Inez put herself up for
President of the Council from Arts

Bi Congratulated heartily was Mur- and Science? Where is the elusive |

candidate? Who’nhell is Joe Mac
Dougall ?

* *& *
:

The gals are getting all primed
up for the Sadie Hawkins day
festivities soon to be forthcoming.

Better be on best behaviour, gang.
* ok OR

We understand that Kinley was
socially embarrassed at the Supper
Dance this last week-end. His uniform attracted some unwanted attention from his superiors. We
should think you would know where
it could be procured, even at that

hour, Gordon.
*

 

 

*

We hear from the Med School
that Murphy and Ballem have
been taking quite an interest in
the Public Health Clinic these
days — Murphy to the extent of
two visits in the course of one
morning — something to do with
Harvard, we understand.

* * **
From the Dental School we hear
that one “Jafsie” is having trouble

  

 

 

 

 

STUFF

LOBBY .

many a harsh threat as becomes his
station in life when he received instructions from Lieutenant Olie Itchy via Lieutenant Raymond Potato
to instruct his charges in the delicacies of bayonet thrusting whereupon the faithful Caporal gave the
command “On Guard”, honking approvingly as he saw the flashing
weapons snap smartly out in front
of their murderous weilders. Halfway through his inspection of the
rear rank, however, he cried out in
agony, for Cadet Fizzleque, a source
of trouble and consternation at all
times, with rigid determination and
impeecable stance, was clutching no
bayonet,, but Lester de Pester’s
broom. Called into the orderly room
where Kernel Confined-to Barracks
Schmidt was snapping out orders
through the medium of King Kar]
who was seated sidewise on the
Schmidt knee, Fizzleque admitted
tearfully that he had been converted to a pacifist as a result of the
propaganda handed around during
the glum-club show by Colonel J.
Egglespie Oatcake and the pacifying
qualities of Dr. Atwood’s coffee and
from that moment onward had determined never again to do so much
as lay a hand on any weapons other than brooms, fly-swatters and
broken beer-bottles, so there.

 

 

While Fizzleque was being hustled away to McNab’s Island by carrier pigeon, Caporal Tin-horne returned to the attack on one of the
six newly-installed bayonet dummies. But he sadly abandoned the
whole program wpon the discovery
that the dummy simply would not
be pierced. Indeed, altho the oncebright bayonets of his spitoon now
resembled a set of pre-war corkscrews, dulled and buckled from the
' onslaught, not a dent appeared on
sa dummy. And well they might, |
for the corpse was none other
than...

Sorry, but we simply can’t find
room for another word this week
Hic — beg parding.

 

ie

these days with a certain young
lady. We have yet to discern if the
big attraction is the Fraternity formal, or those big muscular shoulders; but he’s putting up a great
battle.

¥ x *

From the Law School we hear of
a “great disappointment” visited on
our little fair-haired “Moose”. It
seems that his import is unable to
face the long journey from Sydney
to attend the Junior Prom.

* * *

“Friendship may, in some aspects, be more beautiful than
love,” but it looks as if “Dooley”
were finding the latter pleasurable, even if it means going up to
New Glasgow. It’s hard to break
these old school ties, isn’t it?

* a as

Has disillusion entered- into the
soul of our “Ducky”, or is he having the same Perrot trouble in find
ing a girl for the dances?

“Blonde or Brunette
It’s always Freshette.”

—The Eternal Freshman.

ES

TRICKY

A hard-driving taxi-driver ignored
a red signal, threatened a policeman’s knees, missed the street island
by a hair, and grazed a bus, all in
one dash.

The policeman hailed him, then
strolled over to the taxi, pulling a
big handkerchief from his pocket en
route.

“Listen, cowboy,” he growled, “on
the way back I’ll drop this and see
if you ean pick it up with your
teeth.” —Manitoban.

 
 

_DALHOUSTE GAZETTE

  

. | spite of all these duties Joe found

™ — ee i. so
Fas pee ‘Vlas ee PAT

i i . rT ‘on. 7 HM — od S o th — mad a

eo a 5 " ’ cS rt ™ [Tine :

{ ties Sas ya ce 4 : "ik a Won oe
eed ke Au Pah gy Slat Te fhe i ae v7, ean /
Peer (aos eB ee { me r 4 ja a2 ‘

ep ee : : - "
eee . mie pe ‘

 
  

ra pia Ay wis ee

  

 

 

SSasaeweapaseoarctsesccsness pa se on the Council, taking a keen; From the University of Western
Dalhousie’s id “ reat in orey ng, and has al- Ontario Gazette we ‘gleam this in
ways been willing to serve in any
capacity. The Council of Students
has done well to nominate such a
man as Mr. MacDougall to run for
| President. The best of luck, Joe, in
everything you undertake. We feel
sure your record speaks for itself!

teresting bit of information. ‘
It seems that storks are no longer
bringing babies to London, they
come from the larks in the blackout. We confess that we had to
read this twice.—Argosy.

‘| who's who

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses
in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Studentsa
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience

Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President

 

This week we take great pleasure
in introducing: to every Dalhousian
one of the most outstanding students of the college — Joseph MacDougall, B.Se., better known as
“Joe”. Joe comes from the land
of friendliness and hospitality, Cape
Breton by name. He took his high
school training at Sydney Academy.
From there he went to St. Francis
Xavier University, where he graduated as a Bachelor of Science.

In the fall of 19388 he entered
Dal in First Year Medicine. He was
elected Vice-President of his class
and became a member of the Phi
Chi Fraternity. Wearing Dal colours, Joe played on our hockey team
and rightfully earned his felt “D”
award.

 

 

 

     

GARRICK

Friday and Saturday

“KIT CARSON”
“MICHAEL SHANE,
DETECTIVE”

Monday and Tuesday
“ARISE, MY LOVE”
and
“THE GREAT PROFILE”

Wednesday and Thursday
“LET’S MAKE MUSIC”

CASINO

‘The Son of Monte
Cristo”
LOUIS HAYCOURT

JOAN BENNETT

GEORGE SANDERS

and
Last year his classmates once “LUCKY PARTNERS”

again honored him by electing him
as Vice-President. Another felt “D”
for hockey became part of his pos‘sessions. Tne Medical Journal pro| fited by having Mr. MacDougall as
‘Associate Editor. His fraternity
brothers, realizing his potentialities,
made him their Presiding Junior,
‘and then the highlight of his second
year came when the Med students
elected Joe to be their representa| tive on the Students’ Council. In

 

 

OXFORD

Today and Saturday
GEORGE FORMBY in
“LET GEORGE DO IT”

Monday and Tuesday

ANN SHERIDAN in
“IT ALL CAME TRUE”
Plus “BEFORE I HANG”
Wednesday and Thursday

ANNA NEAGLE in
“FIFTY GLORIOUS YEARS”
and “MY LOVE CAME BACK”

ORPHEUS

Today and Saturday
|

CAPITOL

THEATRE - HALIFAX

 

Friday — Sat. — Monday

“Hudson Bay”

PAUL MUNI
GENE TIERNEY

*

Tuesday — Wed. — Thurs.

“Four Mothers”

time to play interfaculty football
for the Meds who won the championship two years in a row.

 

Once again Joe is Associate Editor of the Journal and this year he
is Presiding Senior of his Frater(nity. Ably and well indeed has Mr.
MacDougall served his fellow stu
“LAUGHING AT DANGER”
Frankie Darro

 

and
Pi aetaee eT a at “YOUNG BUFFALO BILL” ‘INFORMATION, PLEASE’
4 () B E E R S “Monday - Tuesday - Wednes. and
“THREE FACES WEST” HENRY BUSSE AND

HIS ORCHESTRA
“DONALD DUCK”

 

John Wayne — Segrid Gurie

“BARNYARD FOLLIES”
Mary Lee

 

The big banquet is over, big heads
have quieted down, the drafting
room is back to normal. According
to custom, it was a swell banquet.
Guests of the evening were J. B.
Bayes, Prof. Bronson, Prof. Macneill, Prof. Douglas, and Prof. Copp.

At the banquet it was announced by Professor Copp that
the Bob Walter Memorial Award
would be presented to Bert Vail.
The selection of Bert for the award
was unanimously approved by
his fellow engineers. He rated
high on the Tiger football squad,
-and has proved his ability as a
basketball player. Bert’s abilities,
however, have not been limited to
athletics; he has held the office of
secretary-treasurer of the Engineering Society. We take our hats
off to Bert and wish him the very |
best of luck.

We wish to congratulate our
brother Engineer Rand Lugar on his
coming marriage to Audrey Hopgood. Rand has been in the Air
Foree since last June, and last week
received his wings. Best man at the
great event is to be Martin HEisenhauer, and all Rand’s engineering
classmates will be there to wish him
the best of luck.

The call of the sea is powerful:
it drew Lightning MacKenzie and
partner to the shores of the Atlantic and kept them there until 4 a.m.
Doesn’t your father know that supper dances are over at 1?

 

 

EL arhal’s animal tank corps, climbing their Alpine track,
Kept the troops contented with fragrant Picobac.

® This would explain how the great Carthaginian was
able to keep his troops happy so long away from home.
For the pick of Canada’s Burley crop is always a mild,
cool, sweet smoke. Today it is Canada’s most popular
pipe tobacco, And delight in its fragrance and flavour
is enhanced by its extremely moderate price.

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH . 15¢

14-LB, “LOK-TOP” TIN . 654
also packed in Pocket Tins

icobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

 

The banquet was certainly a big
success as far as Horne was concerned; he walked up and down in
front of Norman’s just thinking
about what a swell time he’d had.

 

 

 
 
 
 

- , = a
7 " a so ee = = IB lig as or c . =

oe _ i Sa in 5 i oi
re " . —_—" ae a n TSA ree. ~ = ay pa’ Pa I ley a Py ‘ pee a oe. he
3 Pr or ri Wee Nr ae a x er eee ae ee ae ; ee aye de ye b

i ee ear e 1s ‘
= oie 7

¥
’

   

ao rs rs)
7 ' : Ee . ae
Ree er rey aa ele ee h ee ea Ml a ‘" are! ic
eee ah) hae ee inact Ber es ae a Dra oF ye Ne a
y eh thy 1 ae eee % A 3" if yt wee z
Recipe ic. eee ee 2 Ae y eee ;

Societies Choose —

Continued from page one
their interests on the council of
students.

Law and Med Tie In First

| MED TIE IN FIRST GAME OF HOCKEY FINALS

 
 
     
     
      
   

by MUNRO and MacLEOD

Since we have been requested by a King’s correspondent
others we are going to devote the first part of our column
week to more serious matters than usual. Our first ren after reading Mr. Lewis’ letter was to ignore it alather because we felt and still feel that his letter merely
avates the situation rather than offering any constructive
sm. Our little friend from Kings has shown very poor
fe heaping abuse upon the writers of this column rather
n dealing with the question at hand in an impartial manner.
yr the information and instruction of our immature friend
t us point out for his benefit that the writers of this
column are neither yellow journalists nor were we sufferfrom an attack of misinformation at the time of our
_ February 7th writing. Mr. Lewis takes issue with us on our
use of the word “unbecoming”. If the sentiment contained in
his letter is an example of what he calls a becoming attitude,
then we must agree with him that the word has most certainly
taken on a strange and new meaning in the past two weeks.
_ We cannot accept Mr. Lewis’ letter as representative of the
__ King’s students in view of the fact that we have always received
understanding and courteous treatment from the boys at
_ Although Mr. Lewis would have you infer otherwise we
were not attempting to warp the facts in our column of
_ February 7th. As Mr. Lewis puts it, it is very easy to read
between the lines of any article and then to infer almost any
_ meaning one desires. Mr. Lewis is certainly wrong in the inferences he draws from our February 7th column. We did not
_ gtate nor did we mean to infer that King’s are solely wrong
__ in the question at hand. The inference we wished to convey
was simply that there are two sides to the story and surely it
is not unreasonable to say that where an agreement made
between two parties is unsatisfactory to both of them some
_ adjustments should be made. Frankly we cannot see why
__ King’s cannot practice on half the gym floor. True, it may not
be so convenient but to say that such an arrangement is useless
ig absurd because the interfaculty basketball players have been
- playing on half the floor for some years and they have found
it very useful.

At several points in his letter Mr. Lewis is strangely
inconsistent. At one point he states, “The D.A.A.C. would
_ have them (King’s basketball team) share the floor for this
hour”, then a few paragraphs later he says, “let it be pointed
out that no request for sharing their time has yet been received
_ by King’s.” The only inference we can draw from this is that
_ Mr. Lewis is attempting to deny in his second statement what
_ he has already affirmed in his first statement. For the information of our correspondent and for our readers may we
_ point out that two responsible and well known students at
King’s were approached on the question at hand by the Dal
 
     
   
  
  
 
  
  
  

i
Le ¥

ra
”

1? ~ >

al

r

Te 
?

va

7

ok

Game Of Hockey Finals

Third Period Comeback For Meds;
Led by Strickland, Tie Game Up.

Last Friday night at the Arena,
Medicine tied Law 2-2 in the first
of a two-game total goal series for
the Interfaculty Championship. The
game was easily the best played this
year. Law built up a two goal lead
but weakened in the third period
and had to be content with a tie.

The game opened at a fast pace
with Law pressing their opponents.
The first break of the game occurred
in the middle of the first period
when Piercey picked up a loose puck
inside the Med defence and beat the
Med goalie with a hard shot. The
period ended with Law leading 1-0.

The second period saw Medicine
launch a determined attack on the
Law citadel but the strong Law defence of MacRitchie and Phillips
combined with the brilliant work of
goalie Sandy Macdonald, kept the
Meds out. Joe MacDougall and
Grant led most of these attacks for
Medicine only to be turned aside at
the defence, Norm MacRitchie using
his weight to advantage. Grant
went off for tripping and Law had
a breather. Joe MacDougall ragged
the puck while Grant was off. Before the period was over, MacRitchie
broke up a Med attack at center ice,
rounded the lone defenceman and
beat Mackenzie on a beautiful shot
to the corner of the net, making
the score 2-0 for Law.

Medicine started a vigorous attack in the third period which
netted them a goal at the five
minute mark, Strickland scoring on |
a high shot to the corner on a pass
from MacGregor. At this stage of
the game the fact that Medicine had
more substitutes proved to be a considerable advantage as the Lawyers
were now beginning to tire. Strickland went off for tripping, and the
Lawyers managed to protect their
one-goal lead for the time being.
With five minutes to go, Strickland
again netted the puck for the Meds,
making the score 2-2. Both teams
pressed hard for the winning goal

NAVY QUINTET CLIP
DAL TIGER’S CLAWS

Wilson—MacLeod Head Dal Team.

The Dalhousie Tigers went down
to defeat before the powerful Navy
hoopsters 52-39 Tuesday evening at
the Dalhousie Gymnasium in a

Joe is this year presiding senior |
of his fraternity (Phi Chi). Joe has
played senior heckey for Dal, and
his clear thinking and_ sensible)
moves are readily recognized both

team takes over undisputed leadership of the Senior League.
Lineup:
Dalhousie: Seaman 3, Webber, |

scheduled game of the City Senior |Dumbrack, MacKenzie, Martin 6, |

Basketball League. Loose checkine
and inaccurate shooting cost the
Tigers the game.

MacLeod 12, MacKimmie 2, Mac- |
Ritchie, Smith 2, Wilson 14.
Navy: Arnott 2, Stong 6, Bates 1, |

Johnny Martin missed several scor- | Killam 12, Thomas 7, Goodman 15, |

ing chances at the opening when he
broke away on nice rushes only to
miss the basket from close in.

Navy on a nice shot and then a few
minutes later he followed it up with
another to put his team up 4-0.
Further baskets by Killam and
Thomas gave the sailors 8 points
before the Dalhousie team could
make a reply. Allen MacLeod opened the scoring for Dalhousie when
he grabbed his own rebound to drop
the ball neatly into the hoop. The
Dalhousie line of Martin, Seaman,
Wilson kept the Navy team on the
jump but they were not quite good
enough to put the Tigers on equal
terms with their opponents, and
when the whistle went to end the
first half the Tigers found themselves on the short end of 27-9
count,

The second half opened with the |

Dalhousie quintet trying desperately
to cut down the Navy lead. Allen
MacLeod opened the scoring for Dalhousie on a pass from Jack MacKenzie. Wilson followed up with
another pvefore the Navy began to
retaliate. Goodman and O’Hara led
the Navy attack to lengthen their
lead to 14 points. MacLeod and
Wilson kept the Dalhousie team in
the game with some nice team work.
Wilson also chalked up 11 points in
this half and next to Goodman was
high scorer of the game. Johnny
Martin made one of the best shots
of the night in this half when he
dropped the ball into the basket on

a long high arching shot. The Dal-|1t costs no more to

Thomas opened the scoring for the | |

O’Hara 9.
BE er tS Sa

 
 

Gruen, the recognized style leader,
is the most envied
watch in America.

 

  
 
 
 

_  housie interfaculty manager, who, as Vice-President of the
_ OD.A.A.C. is certainly capable of locating the responsible au_ thorities at King’s. So far as receiving courteous treatment
_ from the King’s students we have no concern on that matter,
but so far as the King’s basketball manager is concerned, one
_ example of what he terms courteous treatment is enough for

own one of these
fine watches than
others of inferier
make. Gruen are
featured at...

but the game ended without any further scoring.

Macdonald, MacRitchie and MacLeod were outstanding for Law,
while Strickland, MacDougall and

housie team cut down the Navy
lead somewhat, but they fell short
when the final whistle went by 11
points.

Wilson and MacLeod were easily

 

i:

=
la
p

the writers of this column.

If the remarks in our column of February 7th dismayed
any King’s readers, then we ‘do sincerely apologize. The last
} in the world we wish to do is to stir up any animosity

between the two groups. Mr.

Lewis or any other student at

Grant paced for the Meds.
Lineups:
Law: Macdonald, MacRitchie, Anderson, Piercey, Keddy, MacLeod,
Phillips and Jones.

the best players on the Dal team
while Goodman and Killam starred
for the Navy quintet.

By virtue of this win the Navy

Thos. C. Johnson
and Sons

aoe : Pree Meds: Mackenzie, MacDougall,| Tigers before the game ended to Limited
<a : Ss 5 ee is free to offer any constructive criticism Grant, Strickland, MacGregor give the Navy a 6—5 victory. : ga ’
at any e, but so far as the columns of the sport page of the Bethune, Downing, Bird, Stewart. A feature of the game was the Gia riv ace aah pene ae

  
   
   
   
   
   
  
     
   
  
   
  
  
    
     
   
   
   
    
   
   
   

7%
\*

we i

‘i
La «wat

7d
‘i
tv

+t .

4
are
nt
BS :
'

ote:
a)

rw.
¥: _
4

j
ae al

i.
7
Rat

t

St
+

‘a
i

hs

ee
ae

-,
a
hb

oe,

©
Py

will be received by the Interfaculty

Py
‘he 4

¢

Dalhousie Gazette are concerned they are definitely not open to
those who are giving freely of their time in the interests of
the Dalhousie student body. If our comments are fit only for
the level reached in the political editorials of cheap newspapers
then that is a matter for the students of Dalhousie to decide
upon. So far as the sports writers of this paper are concerned

_ . We have our own ideas on what constitutes cheap criticism, and

in future we shall drop them along with letters like that by

the King’s basketball
disgraced our sports

manager, which graced or should we say
7. | orts page last week into a commodious waste| baper basket which stands at our elbow.

; _ Students at Dalhousie will be sorry to learn of the injury

_ Halifax Infirmary for two weeks. Students at Dalhousie and

friends of Burnie’s will join with us in wishing him a speedy

recovery.

ONE MOMENT PLEASE

SKATING PARTY THURSDAY

Next Thursday (Feb. 27th) at the
Arena Rink, Pepperell Street, the
Dathousie student body will be
guests of the Council at a skating
party from 8.30 to 10.30 p.m.

There will be dancing to the Wurlitzer in the lower gym after the

c session. All those enthusiasts in either sport should be there
next Thursday.

 

The Royal Canadian Navy Band
will perform iri Dal Gym tonight.

. A special feature on the program
_ will be a gymnastic display. Come

a)
‘,

and see how they do it in the Navy.

 

NOTICE
_ Last call for entries for the Interfaculty Softball League. These

nager, Bob Blois. So far Arts &
ence, Commerce and Dentistry

   
 

LOST!

A black loose-leaf note-book and
new refill during the Glee Club
show last Friday evening. The contents of this book are of great importance to the Glee Club and all its
adherents.

We hope that this is just a case
of mistaken identity. In any case,
the return of the book and its contents would be greatly appreciated.
Persons with information regarding
the book will please contact Don
Kirkpatrick, Secretary, B-2520.

 

DEBATING TRIALS

Trials will be held on Tuesday
noon, Room 3, Arts Building, to
choose a team to debate against a
visiting team from St. Francis Xavier in the near future. Dal has the
affirmative of the resolution, “Resolved that the U. S. A. can help
the cause of World Democracy more
effectively by a policy of all aid to

4 | Britain, short of war, rather than
(last year’s champs) have entered.|

by a formal declaration of war
against the Axis Powers”.

 

 

NAVY ROUGHRIDERS
EDGE OUT TIGERS, 6-5

The Navy Intermediate “Rough
Riders” Hockey team defeated the
Dalhousie Tigers 6—5 in an exhibition match played at the Forum on|
Saturday afternoon. The game was
fast and clean throughout with

 

team two goals at the start when
Dave Doig and.Bob Blois broke
through the Navy defence to chalk
up two goals in the first two minutes of play. Immediately the Navy
sextet put on the pressure and their
efforts were rewarded with four
goals in quick succession. In the
first period Hanna and “Dooley”
MacIntosh drew the only penalties
of the game for mixing it up along
the boards.

The second frame opened with
the Dalhousie squad attempting to
overcome the Navy lead. Maclsaac,
tricky Navy forward, dimmed their
hopes, however, when he scored on
a small individual effort. Mart
MacDonald got that one back for
the Tigers, but when the period
ended the Sailors had chalked up
another goal to give them a three
goal lead going into the third
canto. “

The last period produced the best
hockey in the game with Blois and
MacIntosh leading the Dalhousie attack. Blois tallied the first marker
for the Dal boys when he snared a
nice pass from Wilson. A few minutes later the Navy got that one
back, but Dooley MacIntosh on another nice pass from Wilson managed to get one more goal for the

appearance of Sandy MacDonald in
the Dalhousie nets for the first
time this year. Sandy played a
steady game for the Dalhousie team
and stopped many hard shots.

Arrangements are being made to
play a return match next Saturday
afternoon at the Forum.

Lineup:

Dalhousie: Goal, MacDonald; Defence, Web Macdonald, Mitchell,
Hotchiss; Forwards, Mart MacDon
O’Connell, Pelham, Hanlon, Garrett,
Pay; Forwards, Comber, MelIsaac,
Whynott, Riley, Birch, Woodward,
Robinson, Hanna, Rochette.

| ¥ ; Referee Hughie Gillis handing out ald, Gordon Wilson, Mactatosh,|
_ which Burnie Ralston suffered in a basketball game against the] only two penalties in the game. Mullane, Doig, Blois, Wiswell.
Ms _ Army a week ago Tuesday. Burnie will be confined to the! The Sailors spotted the Dalhousie| Navy: Goal, Babineau; Defence,

 

Jewelery

 

February 21, 1941

as an athlete and as a member of
the Students’ Council. He is very
sincere and honest in all his en
| deavours, but never too busy to give

a genuine and pleasant smile to his
friends. The Medica) faculty have
well chosen their leading representative for student administrative
affairs.

 

 

 
  
 
 
   
 
   
 

BLAKELEYS

O

WELCOME
TO
DALHOUSIE

C

  
 
   
   

}
'
|
|
HERE ARE SOME OF THE |
MOST POPULAR NEW
DANCE NUMBERS |
Duke Ellington’s Orchestra:
| Warm Valley |
Flaming Sword
Chloe
Across the Track Blues
Tommy Dorsey’s Orchestra:
| Star Dust
Swanee River
ee You Know Why
Isn’t That Just Like Love
Artie Shaw's Orchestra: |
{ Star Dust
t Temptation |
Frenesi |
Adiss, Mariquita Linda
Leo Reisman’s Orchestra:
i Last Time I Saw Paris
) What Makes a Song
{ Fresh as a Daisy
) Let’s Be Buddies
Wayne King’s Orchestra:
{ You Walk By
| Goodnight Mother
Serenade
Evening Star

Come in and Hear Them
. ,

| 456-460 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

  

FAMOUS FOR TASTE
AND MILDNESS

  

 

  
 
  

a7

>

*

 

 

 

 
