     

 

 

 

COUNCIL TO LAUN

Support of Students
Will Be Solicited

Dathousie Council of the Students
will shortly begin a campus-wide
campaign to raise funds jointly for
the Red Cross and the International
Students’ Service. All students on
the campus will be canvassed for
contributions which will be divided
between the two organizations operating to diminish human distress
in war areas. Council members
were made responsible for conduct
 

 

 

Dalhousie Entertainers

 

their own constituencies. John Win- , Geneva office of the student organdebank was appointed to head up ization to operate student centres
the campaign with assistance from | and “internee universitees” for refuthe committee previously appointed | gee students in unoccupied countries
to handle an I.S.S. appeal—Louise|and to reach student prisoners in

HALIFAX, N. 8., FEBRUARY 7, 1941

ERS TO PRESENT “SPRING

 

 

Courtesy Halifax Herald.

 

CH CAMPAIGN _ N.S. 10 BE WORLD

FASHION CENTRE

 

If Tuesday evening’s discussion at
the meeting of the Effective Speak
Bishop, Mary Doull and Bernard|Germany through the War Prison-| ing Club can be taken as represent
erate

Methods for canvassing have not |Small parcels of food, soap and nonyet been finally decided, but Council | Political books can be dispensed by

opinion at last Sunday’s meeting |the American Secretary now in Gerfavored an idea which has been|many—Mr. Tracy Strong, Jr., a reSuccessfully used at many Canadian
‘universities, that of requesting stu
cent graduate of Yale. Heard also

; i i was the opinion that Dalhousie to
dents to sign over their caution de- |
posits.

Reports were heard of I.S.S. ac-|raising funds for the Red Cross

 

ing the drive among students of tivity in Europe, proceeding via the

than most other Canadian colleges.

 

Moot Court |

 

action! At 2 p.m. Feb. 5, Art Peake | That Times Make the Man”

 
   
   
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
    

a
i+

~ ve
Tu

oy.
P a

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
    
  
 

ie

Lord Justice George Piercey, Lord
Chief Justice Carl Smith, L.J. and
Jeff Gillis, L.J. were on the Bench.

Allen MacLeod and George Tamaki, K.C. were Appellant and Respondent respectively. The litiga
tion arose on an action of a contract
between a Mr. Tidd and a Bottles
_ Company Case and Agency.

Piercey, L. J. found for the Ap
| pellant a dissenting judgment while

Peake, Gillis and Smith found for
the Respondent.

Art Peake congratulated them and
_ gave MacLeod high praise for his
+ courage in coming to grips ‘with

the brightest star in a star studded
east of Class ’41” none other than
George Tamakai.

 

Dalhousie will be represented at |
|U.N.B. by Ted King and Delmar

Amiro in a Maritime Intercollegiate
Debate, “Resolved that Times Make
the Man”.

After various speakers had been
heard, U.N.B. selected Arthur Mears
and Kenneth Hinton. The latter is a
veteran of intercollegiate debates.
Last year as a freshman he debated
both Mount Allison and St. Thomas,
being successful in the first and
narrowly defeated in the second.
While Mears has never taken part
in college debating, he is a very
forceful and experienced speaker.

The U.N.B. Debating Society under George Bishop expects a large
turnout to hear their first Maritime
Intercollegiate Debate.

 

 

 

ONE MOMENT PLEASE

NEW OFFICERS

- Where oh where is that old class

spirit? With ten people to handle
_ affairs of Class ’43 a new slate of

officers were elected, without a
quorum. As matters stand the
destiny of "43 rides along in the
iands of Bill Hagen as President,
McKeigan, Vice-President and
thy Graham, Secty.-Treas. Now
n people have taken it unto
es to be an oligarchy, let’s
‘more action from ’43.

NOTICE
ee Club Show will start
Hi: she Bas g ni Come

“ 7
+

i
a n

tion to be discussed.

: Se

aes,
4, ;
a

PINE HILLERS ELECT

Pine Hill students once more called upon to fill a vacancy in their
Students’ Council, elected Alex
“Dooley” MacIntosh as representative for the 2nd floor Annex. MacIntosh, who was chosen to replace
Stan MacQueen, defeated Andy
Dunn and George Kind in a close
race.

 

 

Class *41 meeting on Thursday,

Feb. 13, in Room 3, of the Arts

Building at 12 noon. Convocation
program to be decided upon and
other business relating to graduaEverybody
out!

 
   
 

  
 

   

   

: 7 si Sa “\ pd
TES ie
,
"

DEBATERS IN NEW) Financial Surplus
BRUNSWICK TODAY Shown in Campus

Gieeeain’ Mook. Court is in| Meet U.N. B. in “Resolved

Budgets

The Council of the Students met
on Sunday, Feb. 2, at 2.30 p.m.

The first business was the passing of a motion confirming the appointment of Rowena Benson and
Jacqui Cahan as co-editors of the
Gazette for the balance of the year.

Financial statements were then
submitted by the various campus
societies showing in most cases
figures well under the budget limits.
Delta Gamma anticipate breaking
even after the expenditure of the
surplus of $24.00 which is now in

 

their funds, following the cancella- |

tion of their debate with Acadia.
The Council granted Louise Bishop
permission to transfer that surplus
to help defray expenses for a dancing and athletic display on Munro
Day.

No report was submitted by the
Gazette, due to the sudden illness of
Inez Smith.

Motion was carried that the Council endorse a unified campaign for
the International Student Service
and the Red Cross. John Windebank is chairman of the student
committee in charge of the campaign.

Plans are being made to hire the
Arena Rink for a skating session
on February 10th. In such an event
dancing in the Lower Gym _ will
follow.

The resignation of Charlie Roberts
as business manager ‘of the Glee
Club, and application for the same
post by Blanchard Wiswell were
both accepted by the Council.

 
 

date had done less in the matter of |

ers’ Aid of the Y. M. C. A., by which | ative of the opinion of a student

body, then they officially go on
‘record in favour of the possibility
.of Nova Scotia becoming a world
'fashion centre and also of Southern
|Ireland leasing coastal bases to the
British Government.

|

Mr. Stevens, a freshman--or ra|ther a member of the Class of ’44,
| stressed the fact that, with a bit
of nerve, the possibilities of our be
coming world fashion plates are unlimited; as a “conerete” example he
chose himself, stating that a person
who has nerve enough to wear the
loud shirts that he does is capable
|of wearing anything—and spreading
|the contagious desire among his
friends. That would make Mr.
| Stevens a “concrete mixer” wouldn’t
|you say? O.K. don’t say it!

You force us to a more serious
subject: the leasing of Irish bases
'to the British. The girls who disloaded the subject on the floor (a
| rather unlady-like position to take,
don’t you think?) were very sincere
and firm in their conviction that, although Ireland has been ill-treated
in the past, it would be to her advantage now to help Churchill & Co.
| out of their awkward position.

Colin Smith likened the Irish to
the problem which the British Government has with the Indians. Ed.
Morris bounced to his feet and construed Smith’s argument as being
\part of the time-worn question of
whether or not this country should
be given back to the Indians, and
_ why did we take it from them?

Harmony was reached by peaceful
negotiation which ended in the joint
dancing of the “pow-wow” and the
“Highland-fling”. Bring your loose
and double joints to the next meeting a fortnight hence, to be held in
the same joint (the Arts Building).

 

 

'

 

 

Pro fessors, Students

Interned

A correspondent of the London
Times states that by German decree the University of Leyden and
the Technical High School at
Delft have been closed owing to
the “generally anti-German atti
 

|

~ re a = - 2 y
3 ra = Pate us om i
BENIN enn ey or ee eae VP
—y si = a ae ee
il ae aa

 

©

a

_

No. 1

DANCE” TONIGHT

Enthusiastic Group of Service Men
Witness Thursday's Performance

 

Before an audience whose small

numbers are accounted for by the fact | Dance”.
that the Navy were engaged in a ‘Alex's

playoff hockey struggle with the

from the surrounding colleges is
the college’s annual dance, which
gives the play its title, “Spring

Sam Thatcher, the love of
life, and innocent victim of
the girls’ plotting, is well interpret
 

Air Force, the Glee Club presented | .4 by Ross MacKimmie.

their three-act comedy, “Spring
Dance”, last evening in the gymnasium exclusively for men of the
Services.

The scene of the play might almost be Shirreff Hall,
a matter of fact it is
in @ women residence at a
New England college. The plot concerns a group of college girls,
who set out to straighten out the
love-life of one of their number,
Alex Benson, who is excellently portrayed by Ruth MacQuarrie. The
methods used by Alex’s “mates” to
get her man for her are enough to
set any male to serious thinking
about his chances of escaping matrimony if the girl really sets her
mind to it—but who could object to
a plot so amusingly carried out?
The occasion that draws the

men |

Ably supporting the leading characters are Harry Smith, in the part
of Prof. Walter Beckett, biology
|professor at the college, who disgraces his sex by taking part in the

but as 'plottings of the girls against Sam;
laid | “Dooley” Macintosh as Hatton, who

|palpitates for the beautiful and en| dearing dumb Frances, who is well
played by Adelaide Flemming. Kate
|MacKim, Sally Prescott, and Mady
Platt, Alex’s mates, are played by
|Marjorie MacLean, Kay Robinson,
and Joan Blackwood respectively.
_Miss Ritchie, the housemother, is
‘well played by Kay Hicks, “The
Lippincott”, Sam’s protector, is done
| well by John Tasman, although he
_protects in vain. Others in the cast
‘Include Eileen Mader, Bert Perrot,
.and John Barrett.

| the understanding direction of Mrs.

The cast are very appreciative of

 

 

| Clarke, B.L.I, to whose untiring ef| fort and ever-ready help the success
\of the play is directly attributable.
| A large and enthusiastic crowd
expected tonight to hear the

tude of the undergraduates, and
sabotage of the anti-Jewish measures.” All professors of the Faculty of Laws of the University of
Utrecht have been Bent to concen- | clever dialogue of the writer, Philip
tration camps in Germany, while | Bavey.
several professors of the Catholic | :
University at Nijmegen and of
the Commercial High School at
Rotterdam, have been arrested because of their loyalty to the
House of Orange and openly admitted preference for a democratic system of government. A number of students at all these institutions have been arrested, fined
or sent to concentration camps.
—From “Science”, Jan. 17, 1941

is

Last evening’s presentation
served as a final dress rehearsal for
| “Dalhousie’s night”, when students
and their friends will be admitted
upon showing a Council ticket. Out|siders, not accompanied by a Dal
| friend, will pay 25 cents each at the
gate. Note the time ! 8.15 o’clock,
| curtain.
| Following the show, dance music
|will be provided by the Princess
Louise Fusiliers orchestra until one
"| o’elock.

 

 

 

 

PT ec oe

?

 

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

|

 

DO WE NEED STUDENT FORUMS?

Campus opinion appears to be in favour of a revival of the ancient

Dalhousie custom of Student Forums. The impression seems to be abroad
that the days of John Fisher, with their cry of “What’s wrong with Dalhousie?” ought to be revived. 69% of all those quizzed were of the
opinion that forums would be a good thing, and 8% more from the Med
school agreed that’ they would be beneficial, but explained that on account of time-tables it would be absolutely impossible for them to attend:
Another paradox thought that student forums ought to be revived, but
that they wouldn’t do any good. Still another believed we should have
them, but specified that a real controversial subject like the C.S.A. ought
to be found (Dalhousie students have no interest in discussing religion
or politics). 18% were definitely of the opinion that student forums are
not needed, and if our past experience does not betray us, probably more
would stay home if there were forums to go to,

YOUR FAVORITE RADIO COMMENTATOR?

Raymond Gram Swing, the smooth-tongued individual who keeps
millions of people posted on the insides of the news, is out and above the
favorite radio news commentator of Dalhousians. The nocturnal orator
rates tops with 41% of those whose opinions were asked, The only comcompetitor was Dalhousie’s own Dr. H. L. Stewart, who was, picked by
11%, mostly, for some reason or other, at Studley. Tagging along with
4% were such worthies as Walter Winchell, Gabriel Heatter, Kalterborn
and Elmer Davis. In the 8% class Lowel Thomas, Mrs, Anna Dexter and
Lord Haw-Haw demonstrate that students’ tastes are, to say the least,
Catholic. Votes also went to Dorothy Thompson, Charlie McCarthy,
Loren Green, John Fisher, Wilson Woodside, Fletcher Coates, Major
Eliot, and the announcers for the CBS and the BBC. 16%
choose any of them.

declined to

 

DO YOU LISTEN TO DR. STEWART?

The Sunday broadcasts of Dr. H. L. Stewart, head of the Dalhousie
Philosophy department and internationally-known commentator, evidently
attract a wide following among Dalhousie students. 36% professed that
they listen to him regularly, with 21% more listen some of the time. The
other 43% do not listen at all, or only when someone else has the radio on.

 
on
7 i

ae

) Gazette.
er_in America”

=Vr it. é
; jo ‘
aay column of THE GAZI ITE are those of the author; it cannot
2 Student Body.
N,. 8.

Tepresent the opinion of the

t- 0 Genk et eee, Fe ere

BOR BLOIS | -.. Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD
Editor: RETA HARRISON 
nge: DON BLACK 
or: MARGARET GRAHAM | Proof Editor; PENNY PATCHELL
ss Manager: INEZ SMITH - - nt Business M r: MARY JOHNSON

' - koe k £.5s4 ta ‘9 Vo eee

Oe We ee ee ORY oy BE OY 8 Oe os GL a. eee

NT NECESSITY OF STREET RIOTS IN CANADA
es. (Contributed Editorial)
_ We have read much in the press of late concerning the
d street riots in Italy. (Alleged means that the report
vehemently upheld by the Allies and vehemently denied
* the Axis). To some wishful thinkers the riots presaged
the break-up of the Fascist military machine, and the assertion
of the free spirit of a great people—one’s enemies are always
great when they revolt. But to this writer, and to many other
patriots the significance of the riots was the indication they
_ gave of a mighty lack in the contemporary Canadian scene: to
wit, street riots.
Again, we read with palpitating hearts of the riots of students e, and we have applauded the heroism of our
brothers in bonds. Nor does the story end in Prague, for it is
__ well known that European universities are hot-beds of sedition
and revolt,
~~ But have you ever seen a riot in the streets of a certain
East Canadian seaport? How many students were arrested
tor rioting? Or even with military training forced upon us by
_ the powers of oppression, have we made our voices heard in
angry protest? And, (may heaven forgive me the thought),
have the offices and sanctum sanctorum of the Filthy Fifteen
‘ever been raided for subversive literature? Even the late,
great, C.S.A. cou'd not produce one single riot for our edifica_ tion; the most lenient connoisseur of street riots could hardly
_ call the almost-vote-of-censure meeting a full-fledged riot.
But someone might ask, “Why should we have street
riots?” The answer must be obvious: they show that the
citizenry are awake to the perils confronting their liberties. To
prove that some of the public is definitely in a state of intellectual hibernation one need only state a recent finding of that
pestilential feature, DIPO: That there are actually people
treading the campus of this august institution who have never
| __ heard of the Sirois Report. Yes, that person sitting opposite
_ © you in class may be one of them. (It is possible, of course,
_ that DIPO may have asked someone from Halifax). What
' chance is there for street riots in such a state of apathy?
_ _ Awake, awake, Dalhousie! A nice, clean, healthy riot
_ should have taken place, and three prominent politicians
_ burned in effigy, if the genuine article was unprocurable. But
__._ did we take such steps, gentle reader?
(Here we beg your pardon while we take 4 dip into ov:
_ Canadian history to prove to you that it was ever thus. A half
"century ago the political life of our beloved Dominion was at e
particularly low level. The English newspapers said that Tam| many Hall smelled like a rose compared to Canada, and her
| __ politicians. But we had no riots, no nothing.
_ And here a digression will not be out of place. How many
_ Of the men of Dalhousie have fought a duel? How many of
our stalwarts have met their man? (I know most of the co_ ds have). This city was famed once for its duels; no man
" __ could hope to hold office unless he had crossed swords with an
_ Opponent, or fired a round at him in the shade of the Martello
Tower. Upon what melancholy days have we fallen. We understand that in the land of Hitler the college youths still say,
_ “Have at you”, or at least its equivalent in their barbarous
> tongue; it is ae that our genial Major has not seen to it
_ © that our campus life should be invigorated by a return to the
ie “ood old days.
, >. +With the exception of the United States, we are undoubt
—  ~, edly the most anti-street-riot country in the world. The cause
_~ and effect of this dubious distinction can be seen in our lethar| __ gie attitude to national affairs. Only the other night we heard
____ of street riots in South Africa; and while it is no doubt fright_ fully bad taste to mention India at this time, it is true that
our would-be equals in that far-away land are always able ta have a street fight now and then, and cause the more respect___ able element of our population to sing with new fervour:
. “What though the spicy breezes
ee Blow soft o’er Ceylon’s isle,
oy”: Where every prospect pleases
er. eo, And only man is vile.”
The need is plain. What Canada needs is more and better
Re riots. As the citizens of tomorrow our duty is plain. To you
_ comes the clarion call. Go forth and answer.

are | POT-POURRI
____ That man is a rational animal is a lot of conventional bunk.
___ A rational man should know what he is doing and why he is
ms. _ doing it. Now most of us know why we eat our dinner and
Ba _ why we telephone Shirreff Hall. Then, so far as those actions
i ‘are concerned we are being rational. Yet there is something
__-which all of us do every day, for which most of us would be
hard pressed to give a reason. It is the act of living. What
are we living for? The answer should come from a philosopher,
bu Canada is very barren of philosophy these days. Interna___ tional affairs have claimed our whole attention.

Bact One of the most common answers to this question is that
___We live because we enjoy living. Supposing this to be sufficient
_ reason, even then it does not follow that if people did not en
living they would kill themselves. Many people, in our own

munity, suffer the most fiendish conditions. Cold, hunger,

france, and disease are their daily companions. Why does

hermen, lost in a small boat in mid-winter on the North

tic, struggle to preserve himself? The reason is probably

that feeling that “springs eternal in the human breast.”

he a rate’ for ee i he was soins to die

Rens wa Eo Se iggle right at the start.
sas ht aie

rr

Ea
a
“i.

*
a
on

i

tT
EN) 4°

ae

as.

a

i
“Tn
aa

Y tr-etk
é

« po Ae Nd i or
an ar = 4)
Fs ey — x one
ae ie Aa) ®
eg rae le oe i ee
. Pay 4

5 _—

weet ee ie es De semiead | |
ME eae ee ee
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

« POETRY »
Eyelashes that flicker—mouths that talk—
Lips that curl at the edges.
These are the movements of people—
People with grasping hands and twitching limbs,
Or people with passionate hearts
And Shouting lungs.

Do you know the movements of your person?
If you do you will know your inmost desire,

=

For none control the action of their wish.

MY OWN, MY NATIVE LAND

Nova Scotia is a place I love.

From the broad waters of Bras d’Or
To the play of Yarmouth Light
There lies a land

That stirs me

As no other scene can stir me,
And fills my soul

With music, soft and sweet.

Best of all I love the Valley,
The green, enchanted Valley,
That lies like God’s green garden
Between the understanding hills.

I love

The green sweep of the marshes
That caress the peaceful rivers—
The Habitant, Pereaux,

Cunard and Gaspereaux,
Meandering to the sea.

I love

The perfume of the orchards
Whose pink and scented blossoms
| Festoon the fragrant air

Making all things fresh and fair
And a paradise on earth.

I love

The black brow of Blomidon
Standing like a sentinel

Over meadows, dikes and trees,
Over vessels, sands and seas,
'In stern and watchful vigil,

Here are my dead.
Here I was born
| And leave my roots.
Here, too, in God’s own time
May my spirit rest
illowed on the green, green sod
Between. these understanding hills.

.

Young Lostacar and
Heda Man

|

The winter night was bright with
stars,

The moon was young and hornéd,

When out at Fairy-land Bazaars

I found a maid forlorn, Ned.

“My sweetheart brought me here,
sir,

His fliver on all three

When should have been all four, sir.

:
3 little lady said to me,

“He bought my ticket to the show,
And found some friends to take me,
And then he said, ‘Well, Butch, you |

know |
I must go park jallopy.

“

"The crowd is big but down the
street

There should be room to leave it.
Go see the show, but save a seat,
V’ll soon be back to need it.’

“T went and did just what he said.

The show was late beginning,

But when ’twas done and all went
home

I got a funny feeling

“Because my beau did not come
back.

And when the show was over,

Our friends they said to me, ‘Wait
here!’ ;

But I can’t wait much longer.”

Well, Ned, the gal broke down and
cried,

And me, I tried to soothe her,

But down the road a piece I spied

A lad walking toward her.

And sure enough it was her lad,
His hair all rough and gray, Ned.

For thirty years he’d searched the.

road
A-looking for his car, Ned.

It was her lad, with hair all gray,
And wrinkles in his face, Ned.
It took him twenty years, they say,
To find a parking space, Ned.

And now that he has left his car
And found his girl again, Ned,
They’re much too old to walk as far
As where jallopy’s parked, Ned.

REQUIEM

Leaden mauve of winter hyacinth,

Rigid dull-cold tulip lavender,

Purple budruff stalk, sapless and
stiff,

Synthetic laurel wreath and wilted
crepe

Upon the door—

Mausoleum grandeur kills lament,

Strikes out the heart, and drives the
passions mad. .

There are no tears in me to wash
it out.

I must escape; escape into the snow,

Into the world,

To view the delicate mauve of crocus cups,

The purple iris bloom of vibrant
spring,

The hidden violet with sweet appeal,

And copper sunlight
brown hair.

in her soft

M. R.

Alfred Noyes

Admirers of Alfred Noyes who
assembled Monday to hear his lecture on “Poetry and Reality” were
treated to the spectacle of an oldster vigorously denouncing “this
modern stuff’ and a charming and
|completely harmless recital of some
| Noyes verse. Some of the sharp wit
| which appears in Mr. Noyes’ poetry
'was brought into play against the
modern or “pseudo-modern, pseudo
intellectual” forms of art, the
“crazy books”, the pictures. that
“look as if they were anticipating
a bombing”, and the “attack on
first principles” that the present
|age is witnessing. But it was not
‘the light, good-humored sort of wit
which appears in the _ speaker’s
poetry, for Alfred Noyes of today
sees something sinister underneath
the modern tendency in literature
(and art.
| Thirty years ago, he says, the
‘arts took a wrong turn, and one not
/unconnected with the political confusion of the hour. Behind the
| smart young men met at the univer| sities and the by now familiar “‘half| baked intellectuals” there apparent
lurk some “shrewd practical

‘

| ly
|men” with a political purpose. The
|sort of thing which began years
‘ago in Russia by inverting every
| standard of human decency is now
appearing in our modern artists
who, dupes though they be, are pre
|basie principles and traditions

paring the way for an attack on the
of

‘our heritage.

The poor, unrewarded humans
who have poured over the products
of modernist poets and scanned sur
‘realist paintings without being able
to get the point will applaud Mr
Noyes’ satires, even though he uses
the rhetorical trick of comparing
Shakespeare and ‘Tennyson at his
best with aggregations of words not
even intended for poetry. But the
serious student of literature who
sits for two hours at the feet of the
popular contemporary poet and
hears neither philosophical wisdom
nor artistic analysis, but only a forlorn cry against Free Verse and a
whisper of bogey men can hardly be
blamed for feeling some slight sense
of disappointment.

SIZE

The Ritz Brothers say that if you
really want to make good in Hollywood, you have to have something
big. For example, Glark Gable has
big ears, Jimmy Durante has a big
nose, and Joe E. Brown has a big
mouth. Mae West is doing all right
too—she takes size 9B shoes.

—Manitoban.

DEFINITION DEPT.

Bachelor: A man who can have a
girl on his knees without having her
on his hands.—McGill Daily.

Are you troubled with improper
thoughts or do you enjoy them?—
Cornell Sun.

“But they won't wait for us!”
"They'll wait for our Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked."

The National Fish Company, Limited

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

WALLACE SHOES
True or False

Mere price is false unless accompanied by
true value.

Now is the time
For Ski Boots

and SKATING OUTFITS

for Men and Women

| At Birks, value and
Wide Range of Styles

moderate price are
happily combined.

Henry Birks &
Sons

Diamond Merchants

Priced from $3.95 to $11
Wallace Bros.

Limited
415 BARRINGTON ST.

_ Farmers’ Milk is

RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME
YOU’LL LIKE IT.

Se

FARMERS’ LIMITED

HALIFAX

NOVA SCOTIA

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Sc.
Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

|

|

 
  
   
   
  
    
      
 

ie
mar
ligel
fm

Le

A

se z

: Visiting iti pctints who use
to leave

Ps oS wean bf Crulth McLimpy.

; ae ie ‘The Khaki-Klad Korpse which lay
“ _ a-mouldering in the gym was exhib
iting some sign of life, a fact which

| caused no little consternation to by
standing Sourgent Hateful Clutchins, who had detailed a squad to
dispose of the remains. The afore
_ gaid suspicious smell of overripe

seaweed was becoming more intense

whole body of evidence crumbled

before his eyes, and forth from the
ghastly remains stepped Wilbur P.

to return to Dullhousie incognito

 

BE "N

LOBBY .

‘99

The biggest thrill of the week
came to Ralph Smith when he
finally discovered who was hiding
behind that luxurious moustache.
Won’t you come out and play,
Henry?

   

Say

 

 

Don MacKeigan has found a new
use for the Graham test. Does
Physiology help any?

Amongst the prominent murmurs
are rumours of Angus Shea’s departure for Montreal. Honestly,
folks, he bought a ticket the other

and anticipates no complications.

Richard (C.O.T.C) Murphy has

 

 

oS TUPE

-DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Dalhousie’s «

oo | whos who

e | night.”
sary.

No explanation is neces
Tonight is the night of the big
show and our stethoscope forecasts
a big success. For Dooley’s benefit
we would merely say that Bernie
is determined to hold up the honors
of the medical students.

All brunettes are warned that a
certain blonde third year student
has lost his taste for blondes. Any
girl desiring his name should apply
to Prof. Smith.

Obiter Scripta

Voltaire once having been involved in a vigorous argument with a
press correspondent wrote to her, in
part, as follows—‘Dear Madam—lI
heartily disapprove of what you

 

parties to the left, right and in the
bourgeois centre argued freely and
took a share in a government which
changed seventy times in fifty years.

foreign policy to a greater degree

a
SE EE EE a a a a a a
CE ee ae eee eee ee sien ed ee kes

 

   

   
  
    
 

This year Barb.
ever.
fraternity sisters as their President,
but she also presides over all Dal
co-eds as President of Delta Gam-.

is as active as
Not only does she lead her

ma. In the Pan Hellenic Society
“Schwartzie” is the senior member
of the “Alpha Gams”. With two

This week we take great pleasure |felt “D’s” for basketball. and one
in introducing a very fair member |this year coming up, Barbara wins

of the fairer sex to the readers of
this column—Barbara Schwartz by
name, and a girl who was born in
Halifax. Barbara, in true Haligonian form, started her academic
career at the Halifax Ladies’ Col
Showing ability as a basketball
player, she was chosen to be on the
college team, and at the end of the

Here's today’s biggest Value in
pipe tobaccos. A fine quality
mixture—full of flavour—mild
and cool. Try a pipe today.

In pouches, packages and 1 Ib. tins.

her gold “D” for sports.

Studying Science at the present
time, Barbara hopes to be a teacher
after she becomes a Bachelor of
Science. Knowing her, we feel sure
she shall succeed, and a very charming and capable teacher shall enter
a noble profession. Lucky indeed
will the girls and boys be who study
under her instruction!

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses

in

F. H. SEXTON, President

a een ’ have to say, but I shall defend to}] d duated in 1937. That
me and a slight twitc of the ab-| day. : Fre, attr ee oe rs
| domen, eo ety by a % the death your right to say it.”|fall she entered Dalhousie as a CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
Be “nauseating hiccup from the emaci-| Not to be outdone by Shea, the This remark has been referred to,|freshette. Immediately she took an Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
i _ated lips caused Hateful to lose all|clusive Norbett Grant blossomed|*™e and again, as expressing the | active interest in extra curricular To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas
bs a a ana peek) thalforth last weekend with two luscious tae : erat The er a activities. Barb = oe Rep- Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience
f corpse with his bayonet in a most| Islanders. He s that he’s quite ras many years well/resentative on the Delta Gamma :
jt unBritish manner, Pe einie the Soak pr handling the Ghaatinn nurtured in France, where political | Executive. Tene Ser Se ee, veneer OP mee fe
nie”,

 

 

    

“STRANGER ON 38RD FLOOR”

 

; | yarded a felt “D”.

A Fizzleque and Rufus Rayne, bowing) asked us to state that he has no ee ere wit) eee

‘MS low before the startled sourgent) heart trouble—it appears that his In the last decade, however, in-)Ground hockey also interested her C A P ] i O L | O X F O R D
i a acd vapolokising profanely to the| socent woman trouble is sienely fluence exerted by economically|and Barbara wore Dal colors for | Friday and Saturday
| -—s assembled ~squad, explained that,| an allergic manifestation. powerful groups upon the govern-|the hockey team. THEATRE - HALIFAX ||| “ANDY HARDY MEET
fen disliking publicity, they had decided ment. gradually undermined its In ’38 Miss Schwartz was man- A DEBUTANTE”
reas |

ager as well as an active player for
than ever before. This, along with | the ground hockey team. Dee
other important causes produced a| nately illness overtook her and she
clear-cut result—France lost what|had to give college up for a rest. |

freedom of political expression she| Next year Barb. once again re- | Flight Command

had left. ‘sumed her studies. She was Secre- |

 
  
  

Ian MacGregor, having finally
lassoed the dietitian, is now directing his attention to a beautiful
blonde nurse. He says, and here we
quote MacQuarrie: “There’s nothing

and had borrowed an old hulk found
; floating in the harbor in the vicinity
PB of McNab’s Island in which to conceal their identity, but Binnet had

Monday and Tuesday
“A NIGHT AT
ERROL CARROLL’S”
“THE WORLD IN FLAMES”

Wednesday and Thursday

Friday, Saturday, Monday

 

| _—scikkieked the Korpse out of English

 

   
   
  
  
   
  
     
  
 
    
   
  
 
   

Too and they had found no other
atmosphere in which a _  Korpse
would remain inconspicuous.

Malady in the G-String
At this juncture, crowds of incoming Glumclubbers became elated
in happy anticipation of seeing

Crutch (Footlights) McLimpy do a

Spring Dance, while John Fastman
and H. Rubbermug Smythe ran before them, attired only in G-strings
and bracelets, spreading quantities
ef pansies and petunias before the
garlanded dancer.

Scene two showed Addle-Head
Flaming and Roué McGroggy in
long white beards plodding the
wastes of Siberia where Crutch McLimpy, having had over-much success as a lover was hiding from his
wooers in anticipation of Dullhousie’s Sady Hawkins’ Day.

Muley Whackintosh, impersonating the Apricot, saved the show in
the third act by announcing to all
and sundry that Wilbur P. and his
friend Rufus had returned and a
green mist blotted out the vestiges
of the cast which Muley, in an orgy
of tragedian delight, had blasted
out_of their careers with Major Hokum’s sawed-off shotgun.

 

Next week: Rufus Rayne and
Col. Eggie Oatcake meet on even
_ terms.

He—I
thrown Fred over.

She—Well, you know how girls
throw.—McGill Daily.

to do now but wait and see what
happens.”

_——_—_~

Then there’s the story of a former medical student who loaned his
tuxedo to a friend—he didn’t realize that the friend, resplendent in”
the borrowed tuxedo, was going to
take out his girl friend. How do |
you feel now, Ted?

 

Taking the blood pressure
feat for the third year Meds, but
Reade claims that his girl friend’s
pressure has now returned to normal. He shouldn’t be getting let
ters from the South Shore.

 

ious discussion last week, but both
finally decided to postpone the marriage ceremonies for the time being.

 

Mike Smith has not yet recovered
from the palpitation he felt last
Friday on learning of his popularity. He still recommends ‘Mason’s
49” for all heart conditions — you
should hear him sing it. We are
sure that the Glee Club is allowing
one of Dalhousie’s most outstanding
soloists to go unnoticed.

 

Al Hopper of fourth year is reported to be studying up the Boy
Scouts Weekly. He says that tracking is 1 most interesting study and

thought that you hadjhe should know.

 

Jack Woodbury was reprimanded
by Dr. Taylor a few days ago with

 

“Us Engineers” just can’t seem to
keep quiet about our little affairs.
It comes to our attention that the
door John Rogers ran into last
Saturday night wore a blue uniform
and threw a mean left.

*x* * *

“Taxi” Woodbury makes headlines

again, His concern over the current Glee Club production would
_ geem centered over a certain blond,
te i connected with that same production

in a minor capacity.

* ++ *

‘Calm your fears, gentlemen, for
ie “little things’ being knit up at

and all are only war work. This
a the same classification as

Eileen Mader has given up all
hope for ever catching up with
“man, in the woods”. I’d still rather be an Oil-can.

x %

The demon reporter, Don “Birdlegs” Black finds his coverage of
the Badminton games the most
profitable asignment. We have yet

to discern which constitues the
greater attraction, Helen or the
Doughnuts.

e's

There was the young lady, who,
when asked her choice of a husband,
replied that she wished to marry a
Phi Delt and a gentleman. Have we
no laws against Bigamy in the
land?

a lack-a-daisical
is} questions of _ national
turning out to be quite a difficult ' Thus,

 

 

 

 

The other causes mentioned involved physcological consideration—
H. S. Wells, for example, has said
that the fall of France was due to
an excess of mother-love. Many
equally striking explanations have
been offered, the most cogent being
ithat the people, who of necessity
must be the ultimate censors of
|government activity, had developed
attitude
importance.
once the people had lost their

will to speak who would arise to de- |

fend the mediums for
pression ?

The picture in England has proved
to be different, for there the voice

public ex
| of public opinion, to which the press
Ryan and Morrison had some ser-| always cocks a listening
and as a consequence |

ear,
loud and clear,
has controlled and is controlling in |

a large measure the actions of the |
Criticism of govern- |

government.
ment officials is carried out wholesale and such results as the retiring
of inefficient ministers into firstclass obscurity are readily achieved.
Every man-jack in England seems
to take national problems to heart,
and discuss and criticize
which have been taken for them
without fear of any reprisal whatsoever. :

In Canada, however, we seem to
have no sense of national responsibility—the affairs of our city council often interest us more than a
stupid blunder, or a smart move on
the part of our Federal Government. Criticism, both favourable
and unfavourable, of the Dominion
war-effort is practically non-existent
despite the fact that a good deal of
it might be a propos. We Canadians
as a whole are as complacent as a
flock of ;eep in a lush pasture, and
upon listening to our ordinary conversations and to read our very
ordinary press editorials one would
think that dogmaticism was our national watch word. Few and far
between are those who ask — “Are
we doing enough to justify our

‘fhe | Status‘ as a nation at war with a

formidable adversary”? — and still
fewer are those who ask—‘“Is what
we are doing being done properly?”
In fact, it is no exaggeration to say
that. a Canadian who would volunteer to “defend to the death” one’s
right to say his piece would probably be laughed at for—who wants
to say his piece anyway?

| In

 

toward

was |

 

remedies |

tary-Treasurer for Delta Gamma
and played guard for the basketball team. Drama claimed her for
the play, “The Men Are Missing”.
her fraternity, namely, Alpha
was elected as

Gamma Delta, Barb.
Treasurer.

   
    
 
  
  
 
  
    
 
    
  
 
    
  

|

Gruen, the recognized style leader,
is the most envied
watch in America.

It costs no more to
own one of these
fine watches than
others of inferier
make. Gruen are
featured at...

Thos. C. Johnson
and Sons

Limited

 

Diamond Rings Gruen Watches
Jewelery

 

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

 

   

ROBERT TAYLOR
RUTH HUSSEY

*
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
Submarine Zone

PAT O'BRIEN
CONSTANCE BENNETT

CASINO

Saturday

“Chad Hanna”

in Technicolor

 

HENRY FONDA
DOROTHY LAMOUR
LINDA DARNELL

  

   
   

“SUSAN AND GOD”
“SIXTY GLORIOUS YEARS”

ORPHEUS

Friday and Saturday

“TUGBOAT ANNIE SAILS
AGAIN”

Marjorie Rombeau —- Allan Hale
“COWBOYS FROM TEXAS”

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
“ANGELS OVER BROADWAY”

Rita Hayworth
Douglas Fairbanks

and
WHO KILLED AUNT MAGGIE

 

 

GARRICK

Friday and Saturday
“WYOMING”
and

“LITTLE BIT OF HEAVEN”

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

‘THIRD FINGER LEFT HAND’
and
“SANDY GETS

HER MAN”

 

 

gamemnon, sitting in his wooden hoss’,

Smoked Picobac to make the Trojans come across.

@ Who would not—and does not—“go” for the rich,

ripe aroma of Picobac?

And its nutty flavour is

equally enticing. It is the pick of Canada’s Burley crop
—always a mild, cool, sweet smoke. Students may feel
that the charms of the Iliad are professorially overrated; but not the charms of Picobac!

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH

- 154

YLB, “LOK-TOP" TIN - 65¢

   

also packed in Pocket Tins

 

 

 
  
   
   

G RADS reer
@ * %*

 
 

Basketball League.

        

by MUNRO and MacLEOD

 
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
  
   
   
    
   
  
   

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 

 

margin.

Play was very loose for the first
few minutes and it was not until the
four-minutea mark that Allen MacLeod dropped the ball into the hoop
for the first score of the game. The
Dalhousie team continued to make
several fast breakaways from their
smaller opponents which ended up
right under the basket but time
after time failed to register. Ben
Wilson managed to make it 3-0 for
the Dal squad when he tallied on a
penalty shot. A few minutes later
George Blackadar missed the first
opportunity for the Grads to score
when he misjudged on a penalty
shot. Snowden Johnson finally put
the Grads in the scoring column
when he let go with a lovely shot
from a sharp angle to drop the ball
neatly into the hoop..

Doug Cameron repeated Johnson’s

1e Dalhousie hockey team will swing into action once

next Thursday eve! it g when they take on the starry St.
’s squad. Our boys have had a two weeks lay off while
tech and the Saint Mary’s lads took time out to write a
sxams. According to their manager the Tigers have been

showing great form in practice so that they should show a

- reversal of form in their game next week. The Dal boys amit

: iat they haven’t done as well as they might have but they
point out that they have had only one practice a week

uile their opponents have been having three and four a week.
, dear reader, perhaps you will feel less inclined to criticize
e hockey team when you digest this news. The blame does
est entirely with the Students’ Council, for, although they
the power to grant monies for the hockey team’s budget,
act is that even if the boys had a few more practices per
they probably would not be able to attend due to conflict
yeen classes, C.0.T.C. and the awkward hours for obtain__ Tf the swimming manager could find a little time from his
studies? would he please call a meeting of the D.A.A.C, Executive for the purpose of organizing the swimmers of Dalhousie
for a few meets with other prominent clubs in the city. There

SS

-_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

REGAIN

Spectacular Set Shots by Martin, MacLeod and MacRitchie
Boost Final Score to 46-25 for Tigers.

The Dalhousie Tigers overwhelmed the Grads 46-25 on
Tuesday evening in a scheduled game of the City Senior
Inaccurate shooting and poor passing in|,
the first half kept the score down but in the second canto the hack a keen but inexeperienced team
Tigers finally hit their stride to put them ahead by a clear | from Arts and Science.

Badminton Goaadae
Sport of Students

This year has been most successful | tunities.

for badminton at Dalhousie. Two | The hardest working man on the
successful leagues are now in prog-|ice was MacLeod, who has been
ress—a Senior league and an Inter-| working out with the senior team

 

mediate League. Dalhousie is well

represented in both these leagues,
Our teams compete against teams|will scoring three of his teams
the | goals.

representing the Air Force,
Young People’s League, the Church
League, and Y.M.C.A.

There was a time not so long ago
when Dalhousians looked on _ badminton as being a “sissy” sport, but
now that view has changed. It is a
recognized fact that badminton is

one of the most strenuous forms of |

athletics. There are now more players participating in this- sport than

Pa ; February 7, 1941

WINNING STRIDE

Law Sextet Win 4-1

Over Arts - Science

oe

ON RABBITS...
I had a rabbit,
His name was Jim,
Got sixteen now,
Her was no him.

 

In the best game played to date

strong team of Lawyers turned —Queens Journal.

And them there was the freshman
who studied poetry all night and
still didn’t know what amusement.—
Boston U. News.

The Studley boys showed plenty
| of fight but they couldn’t get their
(eae near their opponents net.
'The Lawyers on the other hand
| their oppor
‘made the most of

|all year. He skated through the
Arts and Science team almost at

Piercey played an aggres- | |
sive game and combined nicely with |
MacLeod.

Harrison was the trickiest man
on the ice and eluded the Law forwards on many nice rushes, Gardner
and Riggs played good hockey but
didn’t get the proper support from
the rest of the team.

Pint-sized Harry Dubinsky had | { Chloe
the Law defence of Norm Mac-|| | Across the Track Blues

 

HERE ARE SOME OF THE
MOST POPULAR NEW
DANCE NUMBERS )
| Duke Ellington’s Orchestra: |
| {Warm Valley |
| Flaming Sword

 

 
   
  
   
    
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
    
   
  
  
  
    
      
  
    
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
 
  
   
 
    
     
    
   
    
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
    
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

opportunity to ;
2 F ahould be done about it before the year is over. No

i. 7
4, .
Los f
1, eee €
es OF Mack
3

_ to get the floor, not even for the old hours of 7-9 p.m. on
Monday nights. i

The league has not been accepted with the same spirit as
former years, but nevertheless it has recently shown promise

_ of becoming more popular when it was rudely interrupted by
the terms of the agreement with King’s which gave them the
' right to use the floor on Monday nights. It was decided at a
| _+—-meeting of the D.A.A.C. that King’s be approached with the
' idea that they share the floor on Monday nights with the
___Interfaculty Basketball League. This request was a reasonable
' ome since the gym is crowded to capacity this year and since
_ King’s have two other nights per week when they can use the
floor without interruption. The upshot of the whole matter is
_ that King’s have refused to listen to this proposal which is hard
_ to understand since Dal and Kings are so closely related. A
certain article in the King’s College Record entiled, “Sold Up
' the Hill” offers a clue to this unbecoming attitude of the King’s
This is a column of criticisms this week, but only because
_ they are necessary. The next item is the interfaculty hockey
' game which was scheduled for Tuesday night between Medicine
' and Freshmen. The manager of interfaculty sport went to a
- good deal of trouble to ensure that this game would be a suc| ; even to the extent of getting some of the freshmen players
off early from C.O.T.C. parades.
_ the game. Medicine, the boys who have the most work to do,
_ turned out with a full team, despite the stormy weather. It
_ Must have been disappointing to them that they had just
| Wasted their time going up to the Arena. However, this is
| only half the story. The other half is that the price for hiring
_ the rink is quite a large sum. It is your money which is expended by the D.A.A.C. in such a way that it will be returned
you when you make use of the facilities supplied for interity sport, and if you do not wish the money used in these
S, you are perfectly at liberty to say so. It is to be hoped
you will not say so and that hereafter the interfaculty
ockey es will be attended with the same enthusiastic spirit
mich characterized the league in other years, especially since
the league is drawing to a close.
Rl Ta _ One of our loyal readers has suggested that we would be
_ better fitted if we wrote “Lunatic Lobby” INSTEAD of sport,
but we never read our stuff so we wouldn’t know what it’s like.

Two freshmen showed up at

Sie
i"

Any other suggestions?
_ POT POURRI —

__ Perhaps these irrational purposes for living, this absence
of values, will explain our senseless everyday conduct. It may
explain the huge sales of etiquette books, which are so large
| that they stand second only to sales of Bibles. It is surprising
_ to find in the 20th C., when we are so conscious of the

ativity of the political and economic systems, that most
eople think of the social system as absolute. One would think
nat it mattered what knife one used to eat peas, or how long

resses were, or whether a girl says “Thank you”, instead of
_ “Pye had a won-der-full time”. The present social relationships
_ between men and women are neither immutable nor eternal.

hey have changed before and will change again.
2 The point is, that if we don’t know what we are doing, if
we acting irrationally, we think things are important when

Continued from page one

ay

J a are

_ they are not important at all. Important things—like helping
s er people—are left undone until it is too late to do anything

ut them. Then we all start to wonder how the world got

to such a heck of a mess anyway, and is it an act of God?

The moral of this editorial, is, my friends, to take Philosophy I.

0

FAMOUS FOR TASTE
AND MILDNESS

ra

bales

    
 

‘ ae )
22 ee .
ah as

_ a,

# oo OT ee Sen BL
5 tp Lhe
ba Fe area §
i /
he #

   

2 oy

Ab ~ f ee ead ‘ :
‘ i Me , ‘ it a
ae, ib sre r ry

Bs are a lot of good swimmers at Dalhousie who would welcome
pbee get some exercise at this sport and some
_ he Interfaculty basketball League which has been so
popular in years gone by, has come to a dead stop, at least for
_ the time being due to the inability of the interfaculty manager

    
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

the Grads one point up. The Grads
scoring spurt ended when Mackie
Campbell made it 6-3 for the Grads.
From this point to the end of the
half the lead changed hands several
times. The Grads took the lead
again on .shots by Blackadar and
Campbell. Three minutes before the
end of the half Mike Smith tied it
up at 11-11 but Babe Stewart dropped another basket just before the
whistle to give the Grads a twopoint lead for the second half.

The second half opened with
Bruce Bauld missing on a penalty
shot. Johnson made up for it on

another smart play to put the Grads giate Doubles Champs.

up 15-11. The Dalhousie team now

began to put on the pressure and S°™Me Starry opposition this winter.
foat |Last week our team came up against

Norm MacRitchie and Ben Wilson Jack Underhill, who is a former

things started to happen

tallied on two quick ones to put the

old veteran Johnny Martin now
stepped into the limelight to garner
a total of twelve points for his team
in the next ten minutes by some
spectacular shooting. Aided by MacRitchie and Wilson, Martin gave his
team a comfortable margin. It was
not until the eleven-minute mark
that Babe Stewart managed to score
one for the Grads. The fast fading
Grads were now no match for the
fast breaking Dal quintet. Norm|
MacRitchie chalked up the final |
basket for his team and when the
whistle went to end the game the
Grads found themselves on the short
end of a 46-25 count.

Martin, who was high scorer of
the game along with MacLeod and
MacRitchie were:the stars of» the
game while Blackadar, Campbell
and Snowden Johnson got most of
the baskets for the Grads.

Lineup:

Grads: B. Bauld, Atkins, M.
Campbell 5, S. Johnson 5, G. Blackadar 17, Babe Stewart 7, Vair,
Cameron 2.

Dalhousie: MacKenzie 2, Martin
12, Seaman 5, McLeod 8, Doig,
Smith 2, McRitchie 8, Wilson 5, McKimmie 4.

Capt. Bob Goudey refereed the
game.

The Dal Cubs did not play their
scheduled game with the Air Force
since the latter team did not appear
due to the stormy weather.

The Third Estate

Do you think there should be a
Date Bureau at Dal?

 

“Sonny” McLellan, 4th yr. Science:

Well, it might work and it might
not. Personally, I think people
should be able to get their own
dates.

Ralph Ballem, Ist year Med:

Personally I don’t give a da——,
but I don’t like my dates to be interfered with.

Rose Goodman, 4th year Arts:

It’s a good idea, but it won’t
work at Dal. There is no co-operation.

| Lennie Goldberg, 4th year Dent:

Yes, it’s a good idea. There are a
lot of lonesome students who would
appreciate it.

basket with another nice shot to put

Tigers in the lead once more. That | ©®#mpion who won his matches but

in any other strenuous sport at Dalhousie.. There are many who feel
that badminton should receive a
greater recognition; that is, that it
should be classified as a Major
sport. For some years a movement
has been afoot to accomplish this
end, but so far it has been unsuccessful,

At Dalhousie we are fortunate in
some really good players mainly due
to the efforts of coaches, Prof.
Mercer and Clyde Sperry. The
|Maritime Intercollegiate champion
Del Gibson can hold his own with
the city’s best. Del and Forbes
Mountain are Maritime Intercolle
 

| Ritchie and Bus Philips worried with || Tommy Dorsey’s Orchestra:
his erushing body checks. | § Star Dust
( Swanee River
§ Do You Know Why
1. Law—MacLeod (Isn’t That Just Like Love
2. Law—Piercey (MacLeod) Artie Shaw’s Orchestra:
8. Law—MacLeod (Piercey) Ee aoed Dust
4, Arts and Science—Harrison | Temptation
§ Frenesi
(| Adiss, Mariquita Linda
| Leo Reisman’s Orchestra:
aan Last Time I Saw Paris
What Makes a Song |
§ Fresh as a Daisy |
| Let’s Be Buddies |
Wayne King’s Orchestra: |
§ You Walk By
( Goodnight Mother
{ Serenade
) Evening Star
Come in and Hear Them

Summary:

;
;

> — ee

Lineups:

Arts & Science: Ross, King, Barrett, Clark, Harrison, Smith, Dunbrack, Creighton, Riggs, Gardiner,
Dubinsky.

Law: MacDonald, MacRitchie,
Philips, Anderson, MacLeod, Piercey
Forbes, Smith, Wismer.

 

|

 

 

 

 

ssh

NOTICE

The Interfaculty Hockey game between Engineers and Law, originally
scheduled for Friday, Feb. 7, at 7
p.m. has been postponed. The Interfaculty Manager will notify both
teams when another date is arranged.

Our players have come up against |

Canadian Singles and Doubles

 

not without extending himself.
Another outstanding player encountered by our team was Turcott,
now with the R.C.N. who in the reeent Dominion Championship tournament reached the quarter finals.

5 |

This Week In |
. 9

Girls’ Sport |

by M. MacKeigan

On Monday the “B” badminton |

team will play the Young Peoples’ |

League and on Wednesday the boys |

of the “A” team will play the |

456-460 BARRINGTON STREET |

 

The Brylcreem habit makes
success a habit...

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

A lady fair was never won
By locks unruly.
Successful men know why.
Neatness ‘‘above the ears’’
Is one sure way

 

R.C.A.F, and the girls of the “A”
team will play the Y.W.C.A. on To the heart of a woman.
Thursday. BRYLCREEM ...
* *« * | Makes stubborn hair behave.
Owing to illness, Mrs. Barrett | Imparts lustre to dull dry hair.
won’t be able to meet her gym |

Does away with dandruff.

Fights falling hair and baldness.
Brylcreem is the Empire's favourite:
Over 18,000,000 tubes and jars
Bought annually.

So it must be good!

Costs as little as 25c.

For extra economy buy

The big 50c tube or jar.
Money-back guarantee.

classes this week, but she plans 9

be out again on Monday. |

7 * * ot

There was no basketball on Thurs- |

day or Friday this week, but let’s |

have a big turnout for next week.

Thursday 7.30-9.00 p.m., and Fridday, 5.30-7.00 p.m.

 

 

NOTICE

All societies interested in playing
Interfaculty Softball, please get in
touch with Bob Blois, Interfaculty
Manager, as soon as possible so that
a schedule may be drawr up. So
far Arts & Science and Commerce
are the only two entries received. |
Let’s hear from Dents, last year’s
champions, and the rest of the societies.

Yael eee
BB. ~p No Gum
) Be o » No Starch

~ No Soap

Blaster Me 2oiL cae el Ts

a

  

 

:

BEST MILK
CHOCOLATE

 

 

_ = zs *

=

—

- —_ 
 
