 

* at U
ih; t

a "AS
ae? a
= iy

M
Cie
oT

Hi

3

 

 

POPE REI ATES Girls From
§. OPINION) Antigonish
TOWARD WAR) WinDebate

on i | fy yi 4

a fo

ba
.

ie vad @ Saturday in the Higeics theatre

bs ‘ik “i aa
rs Pe ae

dy what student opinion in the

Wives

rat a

st
ie
a

we

il %

wy

a

as his mene “What Amer
2 ipindont in America. “It is dif” he said, to determine exact
_ United States is, due to the fact

. ‘f pant but several.”

_ Referring to the many groups and
varied opinions which they hold,
e speaker explained that to under
q 2 ee these we must take into con‘sideration the geography of the

country. For instance, the Isolation
ist p are to be found chiefly in
the mid- western States, because in
this region the people feel protected
by the geography of the locality in
| which they live.

“During the last few years many
ileals of American students have

: bw shattered,” continued Dr. Pope.
"Tue: “As @ result we might expect tol|craft union only opens its doors to

- find a good deal of cynicism in student opinion. During the past few

 

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 21, 1941

 

suffered defeat last Wednesday
night at the hands of a competent
team from Mount St. Bernard, before an appreciative audience of students and senior friends. The visiting
team of Kay Tompkins from Dominion, C. B., and Sheila Joan Barry
of Halifax, upheld the affirmative
of the subject, “Resolved that craft
unions are preferable to industrial
unions”, while Margaret Farquhar
and Eileen Mader supported the
negative for Dalhousie.

A Delta Gamma debating team

One of the main points brought
out by the affirmative was that, |
whereas craft unions appeal to the |
professional pride of its members, |
industrial are more apt to fall into
party politics and become political
rather than industrial organizations.
They also expressed the opinion that
the policy of the industrial union
usually results in inflation.

The team for the negative stresseded the fact that the industrial
union admits all workers, while the
Before an interested, though piti
the. skilled worker. They held the/fully small audience in Room 3 of

opinion that in the latter organiza
- years the gospel of pacifism has|tion each individual is working to

the Arts Building, last night, St. |

Francis Xavier won a close decision |

_ been preached in American colleges
and a whole generation have been

~ taught to be cynical about war.
_ However, this is not the case.

the war too much,” declared Dr. |
i “Undergraduates are dead

 
 

sone about political, social and|was before the machine age.

- moral problems — and they discuss

them freely, openly and whenever

they want to,” he said.

Referring to the recent Gallup
polls, Dr. Pope stated that the ma
jority of American students are con
fident that Britain will emerge victorious from the present war.

“The United States wants to keep
out of war desperately, but the

If They pointed out that the craft
ation, American students discuss | union, based as it is entirely upon

improve his own condition, while the
members of the industrial union
work for the good of the industry.

over Dalhousie in a debate on the
subject “Resolved that the U.S.A.

can help.the cause of world democ
racy more effectively by a policy of
skill, is outmoded today when skill- 7 oat) SABO

ed labor is not so important as it nm aid to Britain short of war than |}
jby a formal declaration of war

The oratorical qualities of the against the Axis Powers”.

visiting team were an object lesson The Dal team, consisting of Edfor all who heard them, and it is to | | ;mund Morris and James Stevens,
be hoped that some day in the not | speaking for the affirmative, emtoo distant future Dal will be able phasized several main points. The
to produce a team to equal or soean (Ue S. defences as they stand, they
better the fair visitors from Anti- said, would not even be adequate
gonish. or home defence, and the valuable
aid now being offered to Britain

The judges who handed a unani- |would be cast off. Public opinion in
mous decision to Mt. St. Bernard |tp. y. s., they opined, while whole
 

Ed. Morris and Jim Stevens debated on U. S. Foreign
Policy.

| They expressed the opinion, also,
that it would be much better to have
'the arsenal of the democracies free
‘from. immediate danger
from within or without.
| The negative side of the resolution Was ably upheld by the St.
‘Francis Xavier team of Alec MacDonald and Phil Adams. They ex\pertly refuted the arguments put
‘forth by the affirmative and really
left the audience feeling that the
best, in fact the only solution to the
present world problems would be a
formal declaration of war on the
totalitarian powers by the U. §

An interesting sidelight on the
debate was provided by the chairman when he imparted the information that both the visiting debaters
are American citizens.

Judges for the evening were Mr.
Justice Carroll, Dr. F. G. More
of attack

country is overwhelmingly in favor|were Mrs. Martha Flemming of the | ‘heartedly supporting the cause of
of all-out aid to Britain. Although} Halifax Academy, Dr. J. A. Mac- | idemocracy, is strongly disposed

4 there is a wide difference of opinion|Keigan, and Mr. R. T. Donald of | against en open deckuration of war.
in the way this aid should be given, |the Junior Board of Trade. The de- |

oh almost nobody wants to see a Nazi|bate was chaired by George Piercey, |

i victory,” he concluded. (President of Sodales. | +
i Glee Club Points

The following

house, and Mr. T. H. Coffin. George
Piercey, President of Sodales, acted
as chairman.

 

 

 

 

 

list contains the Bonnie Lindsay

 

 

  
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

 

; he te oe taken a Beery Eee aie cs Side eens as 3
rs in Glee Club, and the points stand- : :
3 iss PaaS anal sect “SP the BPOUMIG MOVs. oi ake, 14
fi es year 1940-41. John MacLean ............ 2
‘ Veron MacQuarrie ........ 7
Christine Arklie .......... 5 Bob Mussett .............. 2
j Joan Archibald ........... 3 ae cvs RT Sei :
" i ORT PN ite a aah
i Students wishing to write the; There will be a meeting of the eee a aedde hel As Alex MacIntosh .......... 2
_ Nova Scotia Provincia) examinations |Commerce Society in Room 3, Arts Betty Bird . (ieee 1 Alex (Dooley) MacIntosh .. 4
_ or the examinations of the Common | Building, at 12 noon on Tuesday,) 7) Begg Mee cea a Bi oc Mary MacKeigan ......... 1
g Examining Board for the Maritime|Mareh 25th. All would-be million-| 7 oo:. Bishop Eee hae 8 Marjorie MacKenzie ...... 4
1 _ Provinces and Newfoundland should aires are requested to attend. | Mena, ee 1 Dorothy MacDonald ....... 9
ie apply to the os ae He cosines PG oe ee 4 sca Mountain: oc. sc.s 3
mediately, giving the name e ; pee mee. ie Ahn! 2 ebster MacDonald ...... 3
abject or subjects in which they| Clase ‘41 meeting, Room 3, Arts | Christine Cameron 3 | Eleanor Macpherson ....... 4
ee wish to be examined Building, 12 noon, on Thursday, D See ere eres ee Jamie MacLeod 9
ea) aphne Christie .......... BUDD. SEaaaneee ge eaeeeenenrnne: era a eo Houle ef
i Office of the Registrar. = ae sn ee Moira Crowe ............+: 1 Irma MacQuarrie ......... 1
ie to be discussed and social ar- : Lorna MaeQuarrie i
, rangements to be made. All Sen- Norie Dougias ............ - Bery] M ey
ce Leet Kay Finnamore ........... 9 ery! Moraff ..... ti tseeee. 1
A _ The Class of 42 met on Tuesday James Farquhar .......... 1 Florence MacDermid ...... I
are and eleeted its officers for next year. ae Feaindt  Wibeh | 0% Sec ede 1 Laura Mackenzie .......... 1
H«yank” ‘Forsythe succeeds John| That versatile paragon from the| Joan Graham ............. 1 Anne Mackley ............ 2
| Fraser as president, Kay Hicks will|Law School seems of late to have| Anne Goodeve ............ 4 Eileen Mader ............. 2
be ee eroriackt, Frances Webster, | been ruffling the calm serenity cus-| Rose Goodman ............ 4 Ross MacKimmie ......... 6
secretary and John Tasman, treas. |tomarily prevalent within the pre-| Kay Hicks ................ 9 Charlie McKimm .......... 8
cincts of “Sherrif’s Haul”. Imagine| Bill Hagen ............... 11 John MacKenzie .......... 6
the sensation of various co-eds} Clayton Hutchins ......... 2 Robt. Murphy ............ 5
The Effective Speaking Club anti-|when, tearing in breathlessly just} Mary Johnson ............ 2 Kay Martin .............. 1
ate an active year (1941-42). At|on the dot of 12, looking frantical-| Doug. Johnson ............ 3 | Joy, Morrison ............. 1
ir meeting on Tuesday Edmund|ly for the leave-book, to be con-| Gordon Kinley ............ 7 Brooks MacNeil ........... 1
ig was elected president to suc-|fronted by a veritable man-moun-| Cyril Kempston ........... 2 Morton Norman ........... “
4 Allan Sparkes. Eleanor Taylor|tain. We are led to believe, how-| Desiree Keating ........... 1 Melda Nightingale ........ I
R , N. B., will be vice-jever, that MacRitchie was quite in| Kay Knowles ............. 1 Ralph O’Brien ............ 4
t and Colin Smith has been|his element. Was it the chocolate| Carson Logan ............ 2 Penny Patchell ........... 8
d to the post of secretary. ‘cake, or was it Kay? Donald Lindsay ..........- 1 (Continued on Page Four)

ENN -_ %

 

DEBATE AGAINST ST. F. x. Award Won

SS th mr pec emit eae - alee eed Saini a

No. 20

 

By Delta
Gamma Play

This being the last issue of the
Gazette for 1940-41, comment should
be made on points of interest which
escaped the editor of the co-ed edition and her staff.

 

In the first place, nothmg was
said in last week’s issue of the
Connolly Shield for one-act competition and the merits and demerits of
winners.

The editor did not even express
a “penny’s” worth of appreciation
for the noble and successful effort of
Don Warner and. his new Daihousie
Swing Band on Munro Day. We are
grateful to Don and the boys for
providing the tea dance music on
such generous terms, for -volunteering to donate half of the simal: earnings to the Red Cross. We are happy and proud that we have such an
element of personality and generosity on the campus.

The one-act play by Delta Gamma
Society won the Connolly Shield this
year because, of the three plays, it

created “the most lasting impres- |
mind of Professor |

The audience, less expert | attend some of the festivities during

sion”
Bennet.

on the

ees  aatttatattitmmtliiamttatttint tt tN L

CONVOCATION
ARRANGEMENTS
IN PROGRESS

Allow us to interrupt your rviewing and thoughts of examinations to tell you that there are
parties and fun in store for those
who want to take advantage of this
splendid opportunity to finish the
college year amidst an atmosphere
of gaiety and true fellowship.

The convocation week committee
made up of Dewar MacLeod, Frank
Johnson, Ruth Graham and Connie
Spinner have cooperated in drawing
up a fine programme from Monday
May 5th to Tuesday the 13th. Prices
for the separate functions are marked below—

A double admission ticket costing
$5.50 will allow you to “take-in” all
the fun exclusive of the Alumni.
Banquet and Convocation Ball at
which only the graduating students
will be single guests.

Something new is planned for this
year: there will be a church parade
on Sunday, May lith, at which the
graduating students will assemble
with gowns to be issued for graduation ceremonies.

You will regret it if you do not

 

 

in its judgment, showed a decide od | this grand week. This year, especipreference for the contribution of Pi| ally, should see the largest turnout

Beta Phi fraternity.

The ever popular adjudicator had
different reasons for choosing ‘“Petticoats Preferred”. It was a more}
difficult play to do than “New/)

Continued on page four

/In history.
Following is the programme:
Monday, May 5th—
Informal dance in Upper Gym—
$1.50.
(Continued on Page Four)

 

M. P. SPEAKING

Tonight, an interested audience
will hear L. P. Picard, M.P., speak
on “French Canada and the War”.
Mr. Picard, who has had a varied
and interesting career, has done

journalistic work with the FrenchCanadian newspapers, has practiced
as a lawyer and has for a number
of years been private secretary to
the

Minister of Justice, Rt. Hon.

 

ON DAL CAMPUS

| Ernest LaPointe. In this capacity
‘he accompanied Mr. LaPomte to
numerous important international

conferences, such as the Disarmament Conference and the Assemblies of the League of Nations. He
has taken a prominent part in various French-Canadian organizations
and is greatly in demand as a
(Continued on Page Four)

 

Fo ee eo ae

cs Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

       

WILL THE U. S. GET INTO THE WAR?

74% of Dalhousie students who were asked their opinion on this
topic of current interest think that the United States will eventually

enter this war. 22% replied that such will likely not happen, while 3%
more were undecided and 1% helpfully ventured ‘not if they can help it.”
The proportion who thought the traditionally isolationist nation to the
south would plunge into the embroglio was highest at the Forrest campus, where 77% returned an affirmative answer. At Studley only 68%
were of this opinion, and it was one of the persons quizzed there who returned the helpful answer referred to above.
* * *
WILL THERE BE ANOTHER WAR?

Optimism has reached a new low at Dalhousie, where only 18%
could be found who believe that at the conclusion of this war the command, “cease firing”, will end forever the era for war and conflict, that
henceforth swords will be beaten into ploughshares and helmets into
flower-pots. 86% think there will be more wars, and most of them think
there will be plenty. One person had not made up his mind.

Once again Forrest proved to be the more optimistic campus. 18%
there think this is a war to end war, as against only 6% at Studley. The
inquisitors also agree that not all those who said there will be no more

wars appeared to be sincere in their opinion.
ee OS

SHOULD “DIPO” BE CONTINUED?

The surprisingly high proportion of 73% declare that “DIPO” should
be continued in the Gazette next year, and one other person is in favor
of prolonging the feature on condition that it have a different editor.

(Ed. note: We have no reason to believe that the present editor will
have anything to do with the feature next year. Not on your life!)

Studley this time proves to be the most gullible campus, 81% there
being in favour of the popular column, as against 65% at Forrest. In the
university as a whole, 15% say DIPO should not be continued and 10%
more don’t care.

This vote, we must warn our voracious readers who flock to Roy’s
every Friday evening just to glance at our column, does not necessarily
mean that you will be able to read DIPO next year. Prehaps you ean’t
read, anyway.
 
  

Bab an :
aaa ee

baa

©
Ra
’
it
a

JS Sl, Lee eee

 
 
      

      

AZETTE are those of the author; it cannot
dent Body

Re

The views aoe ed in any column of THE
sk i siesoon nat they represent the opinion
F

   
   
       
    
 

  
  
 

the Stu 2

| Printed by MeCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle street, Halifax, N.S.
| ss Bditors: ROWENA BENSON - - - - - -.- -_ B-9746
ey | JACQUELINE CAHAN Weare aris whe Sl. ; EES
Assistant Editor: JOHN GRANT- - - - - - - - B-9586
"_—s- News Staff: JOAN BLACKWOOD - - - - - - -  B-9746
Bribie BARRY SMITH; - +. - =) -- +> + 'B442l
BER Be CONNIE SPINNER - - - - - - = -  B-9746
| -—s Sports Staff: BAIN MUNRO - - - - - - - - -  B-8674
Penis ch DEWAR MecLEOD..0- -) -).- +. -.. +  Beb635
Ber PA sake Pe oa eee ee oe BSTS
| ___ Feature Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD - - - - - - B-9746
ee eee hace lt ll Bent
as 7, Proof Editor: MARGARET GRAHAM O15) i j.- 0 304 ~~ B-9746
Assistant Proof Editor: PENNY PATCHELL- - - - -  B-9746
Business Manager: INEZ SMITH - - - ~- - = = B-1049
Assistant Business Manager: MARY JOHNSON - - - -_ B-9746

1
‘',
¥

 

 

“THE TRUTH WILL OUT”

In the Student’s Directory, on page twenty-six, is a short
essay entitled “Four Years.” It professes to tell students what
- college has to offer them, if they really want it. I have heard
many undergraduates comment favorably on the passage and

| _ getting or should get from college. Are they right or wrong in
| thinking this? Which ever they are, there is no better time to
_ ~~‘ examine the benefits which we have received from our year or
| --—s*-years at the university than at the end of a college term, when

so many of us will be leaving for good. — |

‘ The passage to which I have referred starts out like
vai? this: “To be at homie in all lands and ages”.
Bey - | feel that we carry out this educational aim very badly.
ta How many students know even their own country, let alone
| that of foreigners? How many have ever been to Quebec, and
i of those who went there, how many could converse with their
_. fellow-Canadians in the French language? Perhaps lack of
time or money has prevented the majority of us from travelling,
‘but at least we could read the newspapers from other parts of
Canada. As far as it is possible to establish upon enquiry, it

ie _—-geems to be true that there is no public library in Halifax that
| takes any paper from farther west than Toronto. No paper
ab written in the French language is received. How can we pre_ ‘tend that we know what our own countrymen are thinking
- about? | , ne

md The passage continues: “to count Nature a familiar

is | acquaintance.” en ,
vi _.Most Nova Scotians don’t even know their own countryside,
and I have yet to see a. hiking or a bicycle club formed at

Dalhousie. It is just not done.

“To count Art an intimate friend”.

And what, we may well ask, do any of us know about Art?
Do you know what the Group of Seven was? Did you go to
see the paintings displayed in Halifax recently? I know I did
not for one. But if an intimate friend had arrived, we would
have gone to see him surely. Do you ever read any poetry now
since you got through Milton and English 2?

| “To carry the key’s of the worid’s library in your
- pocket.”

Have you ever read Dante or Goethe? Do you know who
Tolstoy and Romain Rolland are? Their works have been
translated into English. | = }

“To make hosts of friends among the men of your own
age who are to be leaders in all walks of life.”

_~ Leaders? How will they be able to speak? They are receiving no training in this line either through debating (Sodales
is almost dead) or through instruction. How will our leaders
be able to write? They take no interest in the Gazette. What
'. will they be able to say? They do not care for politics, nor for
\ Canada’s economic problems. This statement: is in part substantiated by the small number of students who attend the

lectures of the speakers from Ottawa.

’ “To learn character from professors who are Christians.”
Do we really care about Christianity? It is in ‘some way
connected with truth, about which Tolstoy says: | “One man does not assert the truth he knows because he
feels himself bound to people with whom he is engaged; another because that truth might deprive him of a profitable
position—; A third because he wants to obtain fame and power
to be used in the service of mankind; a fourth because he does
not’ wish to break with ancient and sacred tradition: a fifth;
because’ he does not wish to offend people.”

ay ig
#

As the last issue of the Gazette for 1940-’41 goes to press
there are a few matters to be gotten. off the editorial chests
while there is yet the opportunity. We might become sentimental and fill the column with reminiscences, ‘but what does
reminiscing accomplish, (besides providing a little extra filler
when the editors are desperate for copy).? -°" 7 |

presented its problems to us as.students as well as to those in
other walks of life. Students have been more than usually
busy with C.O.T.C. and other extra-curricular activities. Yet
two weeks ago, when we took over the editorship of the
Gazette, we issued an 8.0.S., calling for the co-operation of
the student body, we were not disappointed. We wish here to
i seg our appreciation of the splendid wal in which sfudents
lied to the call and came to the aid of the Gazette. Perhaps

a ee ca
— m5 ae. ~ =
i... —— ,

a
=

oe

~ a a
ee
a ¥

_

_ially would we mention the sub-editors, all of whom are, apart
from the Gazette, among the busier members of the student

a
5 v.

Ne =

ine McCurdy Printing Company.

aie _ We understand that in being the first co-ed editors of the
Gazette we have made history at Dal. Be that as it may, we
have derived much of value and enjoyment from the position
and presume to hope that the student body has derived as
much enjoyment from reading the Gazette.

' j ae


ee | OE QS AL

bedy.” ‘And while we are tossing bouquets. we would: mention
iy the friendly co-operation that the Gazette has had from. the:

they realized the dire straits in which it was stranded. Espec- |’

     

try rte be Pa aes, Ay. a
Aarne!» ae mn)

am

M. R.
ESTO PERPETUA! Aid ‘spoke’'those .words“one’ feared |
A dream died— to hear
A vague dream which man _ had | Renouncing peace and life.

hoped
Would someday spring to life
And never die. ale af ;
It died that’ day so short ago
When mid the Commons,
The Premier rose,

This year, more than any other in the last generation, has i

  

TES Mae _ ahs hae) lhe Me . lt wv
P t 4 OP oak itis YY, 4 7
ery

ai 43 er" io) st F ' ’ ;
. r age eGiNCt eT peer ert
i b a ‘ 2 4 ’

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Waser k y

TRAUMEREI: OBJECTIVE

Where dusk now spreads no patch of green is left.
A curious death, not death indeed but sleep.

The solid pitted snow cut by the wind

Leaves nought but frozen flakes to drift about..

In evanescent glow of pencilled clouds

A breath of being stirs the dying breeze
To graze the nether tip of withered stems
And wander fruitless o’er the barren plain.

A shrub outlined above the darkling sky

Moves once—is now more still for having moved;
Yet seems to tremble, cold in growing dusk;

All else the still eternity of time.

—~

All nature chills like death this winter night

Till lighter clouds presage a dawn anew.

Where day now rises sparkle thousand-fold

A thousand, thousand gems of frosty dew.
TOMMY,

Shofer Hall.

A PHANTOM

The dank leaves spread stinking horror on earth

a stench that seeped into the brain

and released foul visions of dead things.

The world dripped brittle mist drops

Making puny puddles without the energy of clean rain
No enervation was in the outside air

yet restless shadows kept you from indoors.

One must not disobey the sensitive impulse

that warns men from the full menace of empty rooms;
extermination leaps from vacant corners.

You slunk across the quad,

prolonging gloomy solitude

But my Spirit stalked beside you

in the thick air

My Spirit held you to the spaces

As chains hold felons in their arduous way.

You feared to walk beneath the trees
and your glance slithered from side to side
telling your brain that sinister forms were

bare trunks of trees and barer branches.

Visual truth could not convince.

You should not strangle wild dread that sped your
pulses till your lungs nigh broke for breath. ©
You could not heat the string of cold steel

along your spine

nor’ smoothe subconscious swellings on your skin.
Your mind subjects matter only.

My yet unharnessed Spirit gripped the controls.
My urgency unquestioned, therefore inexplicable,
forced your feet along the path.

Your step stirred slimy corpses of leaves

till their charnal stench fumed high in your nostrils.

A glass drip, eold and sharp, slashed your cheek.
A twig snapped—your eyes jerked left.
As they moved you saw it.

Describe it—wraith? shadow? the Hag?

You gibber, your eyes glare in their sockets,
your throat is tight, your tongue thick.
Rave on, pretty fool.

My spirit does not need your tongue,

You do not know the stuff of nightmares,
My Spirit knows. :

 

Will that dream ;

That ancient dream of centuries
Merge into light of day?

And make our life,

A joyous, happy, carefree one,
With no mad thoughts of war.

 

 

qa tie

“4

 

; - - -“ wait .
a eis RR ;
! bi cpnas tl ¥ ‘(eR oy, Deny or a Pt wi Tf me if Ae

422 BARRING6ON STREET

 

ayy beat

wy
;

    
    

 
  

    
   
 

aa

4

  
 

|

4 BS
4 f
ll

   
  

ANY
1\\ Fee

Wat TE

a

ee eC
Sr ears be. atthe ys << eee
Soe e es e a.

OR: aitbos
Ne
Bee

hae
Bae che colts as ees

die

we
; KG oe

 
 

@ | “The purest form 7
in which tobacco A

can be smoked.”

 

RETROSPECT

Did I murmur a name?

Ah, surely not now, not at this late
hour,

Not now, when the rapturous joy of
that name

Lies crushed in the past—all. crushed
—and sour.

What is Time?

Only immeasurable Eternity.

Something that cannot be retraced;

Or caught up with,

Or stored for future use.

Time is synonymous with Life.

Both are durable and unending.

Time is restful or restless—

Dependent on civilization.

Did I offer a prayer?

Ah, surely not now, not on this
bright day,

Not now, when the bleakest of bleak
March air

Accosted the answer—and drove me
away.

Icicles

Crystal clear

Hang from a bough

Gently capped by falling snow
Slightly swaying.

They are caught

Now and then

By a ray of tight

Transplanting them

Into spangles of multuous colours.

M. C.

|

| Did I whisper a sigh?

| Ah me, I don’t know; I[ don’t want
to forget

Those dreams of a spring,
spring, that’s gone by,

Those bitter-sweet dreams with their
sweet regret. M. R.

my

|
| o> 2 ~~.
Balhousir University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the prixcipal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Sc.
Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the eourses.

The Professional Faculties
. in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy. an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

past Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 

The Tailored-To-Measure Clothing Value
That's TAILORED do Everg Man's Pocket-Booh! |
| |

|

21,00

Hand-Cut and Individually Tailored

to Your Personal Measure .

OVER 500 BRITISH WOOLENS TO CHOOSE FROM

Ladies’ Mannish- Catlored Coats and Suits.e Oailored-to- Measure 28.75

TIP. TOP:

LIMITED
HALIFAX, N. S.

TUS-3-41

 

: ab) & i o |
1 4 cored | oT Tam
‘March 21, 1981)

SWEET fi

  
   

ve

;
>
‘
,
A

 

 
 
      
  
ie, a LSrbeAs

   
 
 
 
  

? yu i c , » 7 7
. y | — Sean . : 5
t ae . Fy : —_ ; gi
i 7 i) io ; ’ : t :
} fi * q , ae "
= ae ' ;
fy iy f

  

4

tae : Living in pias according to

‘its parm That
around thé ‘: after a dance
ional. Helen

jorne, has

‘Please note and explain.

Te
eae

be iy me

“/Panham behaved -himself well

2, en ugh at the Munro Day show, but

he had to go and spoil it all by going
yut again after taking the girl
'riend home. Or didn’t you know
bout Aan Iris?
. * RR *&
Mis Engineering Society will
Se hg another successful year to a
_ close ose shortly with one last meeting.
; this meeting a secretary-treas.
be chosen from a list of appli
; good as this year.

well, we feel sure, will do the en_ gineera justice on the Council.

+ ss *®
Does Ping Pong Smith know that
_ there is an excursion on out west
this weekend. Or is he needed too

i | much by a certain Construction Co.?

¢ * ®

Due to a tendency to horseplay

fr the drafting room has been ordered

closed on Friday afternoons until
. the end of the year. It was a great

| La game while it lasted. We also apol- .

or to anyone who “happened” to!
_ get soaked with water.

 

LOBBY

 

e | Episode Ten entitled: Play up, play
e]-| up, and play ping-pong at Poona.

Realizing that the last Dalhousie
Gazoot of the season was sizzling in
the lead pot preparing to burst upon
an expectoratingly waiting college
public, Wilbur P. Fizzleque, who had
been released from McNabb’s island
in the interests of that colony’s discipline and convoyed back in a
Sheriff’s Haul bathtub, escorted by
the H.M.S. Revenge, screaming all
the while with horror at the atrocious condition of his confederates’
affairs as reported by the sisterSusie slap-stick-stuff editors of the
week previous, now set out to marshal his forces with the marshal’s
baton Major Hokum had tucked in
his (Fizzleque’s) knapsack on Bunrow Day, in a final frenzied and as
usual fiendish attempt to rid the
earth of his arch-enemy Egglespie
Oatcake this is still all one sentence
and settle down peacefully for the
summer in the only unhaunted corner of the authors mind—the forgetfulness section just above the middle
molar upper double bicuspid left.

Entering the haunt of the glumclub, Fizzleque, with his usual
faculty of appreciating every situation with pan-in-the-flash precision,
found that everything was just as
Bunrow Day had left it, except that
a few of the bottles had been removed at the request of. Messrs.
Freaksome and Dong, Mils. Haycan
and Benzine, shouting come and
gettum, was throwing Gazoot Ds
about the building while Wubber
McTunnelled stopped momentarily to
‘hand Wibur P. a handful of ballots
as he pursued an elusive democracy

i through @ labyrinth of tall stories,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This being the last Sty of the
year, it behooves us to put our
best foot forward and bring forth
from the files all the dirt that’s
fit to print. We will endeavour to
inject many of the old tenants of
‘the Sty into one big effort, never

ante ¢ _ forgetting what good copy ‘Kissy’

was, while she lasted, and others
too numerous to mention.

ey iy us * ¢ *

. The little Pig has never forgotten
Penny’s valiant efforts to keep her
) self out of the Sty, especially when

love’s young dream was shattered.
It may, or may not be to our eternal
credit, but seeing that the “Wavy
Navy” has been taken over, even
here, I guess it’s safe to say that
the Hall girls aren’t so particular
after all,
* a a

And our old friend, “Hank” Reardon, whose Hardwear seems to have
come under discussion more than
once, What happened to “Bunny”
not so many Saturdays ago? Who
escorted one of our more recent acquisitions, namely, “Midriff” Campbell, on that occasion? That gal will
a _ bear ‘watching,

* % *
ie, dey

‘And. _ there's our popular Chas.
"Gordon. Out of deference to the
fact that the Phi Delts are constant
sources of stuff, we are pleased to
hear that their athletie prowess has
not suffered. What happened to
Adelaide? It’s our guess that Anne
imposes less restrictions.

We) ae

Our Sergt.-Major makes good
copy. From the latest reports, he
is deep in the throes of unrequited
love. His attendance at certain
lectures was more than regular,
but we have it on good authority
that his advances have been calJously spurned.

* *

- | The Law school’s diiges ‘Doaldy” i *
in ary _ MacIntosh, comes in for a little last
“e attention.

nhs

His recent sojourn in
New Glasgow was prolonged by

  
 

cf Mp

é rk ¢
* yo
7 re
@ te a
, a
Fi ; “pe t
Ta. sal
m x
ae. La Be ieee 27
54 - > ss 72

  

.

’ ; J dae i al 2, . cmt
' * Satna Pan te

“Lightning” McKenzie (never to
be confused with Margie) apparently believes that the candle can be
burned at more than the usual number of ends. After the trip to Mt.
A., all he could do was gasp.

= * #

The old dependables have settled
down to a fairly routine existence.
Kay and Bill, Marie and Johnny,
and even Audrey and the little
Prince Charman. We had some fun
for awhile, but it was mainly too
good to last.

And when there’s nothing else,
we can always find the Lonesome
Pole and the Eternal Freshman.
We’ve often wondered if those two

'weren’t secretly married.

eee Le

And last, but never least, the
Itch, who DID NOT contribute
the following fable, but which was
found engraved on the back of an
old Student Council ticket (the
fable—not Itch):

_ The story this,

Of one, whose. bent

Has brought eqinplete | ae et
Disillusionment..

A beamish boy,
Whose only vice
Was his romantic
Avarice,

But tho he try
Romance to find,
His ego has been
Undermined.

So for this lad,
A nasty fate,
.I hereby
: penne set.

4 :
i. ea * ee
an ‘= * a ® # ie a

wy ws

And so, to all these, and the others who helped to make this column

possible, the little Pig wishes tlic

best in the future, with more and

better dirt as the motto.

=
'

“>
An 3
mS

aot

ig i vhs.
he ae

er

es 5 - r= 56;
i << uit \ ad Ey oe an,
1 - ¥ ii, a 3

 

crimes and torts. H. Rubbermug
Smythe was lying across the footlights muttering “Give me and my
wife Eleanor the microphones and
you can have the tools to put up
the job etc etc etc etc repeat pause
repeat.” Hiccups were emanating
from the Orderly Room.

Snatching an official headpiece
from one of the actors, Fizzleque
stepped up to the bulky figure of
Oatcake J. E. and handed him a
telegram, looking over his shoulder
so rudely that the Colonel had great
difficulty focusing his pig-like optics
on the wording. Breathing heavily,
Eggy aspirated the message to Addle-head Flaming who immediately
burst into song, while Dawn Mourner waved a graceful arm toward the
trombone section of his Sons of Empire Bund. But wave and sway
rhythmically as he would, not a note
escaped the trombones, for green
mist was pouring out of every instrument and enveloping the occupants of the stage. Sammy Skunk,
who could usually smell a story
where there was one to be smelt
informed John Gaunt that he would
bet him a polar pie there was skullduggery afoot. Gaunt paid up on
the spot as Rufus Rayne stepped out
of the haze and confided in them
that poor unsuspecting Oatcake was
being lured to the waterfront by a
fake telegram, and that instead of
meeting his old friend Major Mugwump-Trump from Poona as he had
expected, the Colonel was going to
kingdom come. Just as well, said
Gaunt intolerantly, “I hate him, I
hate him, I hate him, and I have
hated him from the first.”

Dark, Dank and 'Pitiless

Down at the quayside things were
happening already. Through the
cold and murk dark figures could be
seen lugging wierd bundles into a
deserted boat house. Two crows
were pecking greedily at the eyes
of a dead horse which had been
washed up on the littered shore.
Rayne, Gaunt and Sammy Skunk,
with Prof. G. Vibrant Galloper and
King Karl to serve as chroniclers
took up a position behind a heap of
sea-weed and peered silently
through the mist. Quiet, shouted
Rufus, boffing King Karl on the
right ear with a nearby dried haddock, you'll have to peer more
quietly than my man, if you wish
quietly than that my man, if you
wish us to remain undetected. Oatcake at this point wandered down
to the boat-house and craned_ his
shaggy head into the darkness inside. A dull thud sounded and the
Colonel disappeared into the gloomy
interior of the building, as the riresponsible laughter of the unpredictable Fizzleque echoed among the
rafters of the hut. By the time
Sammy and his comrades had reached the spot Oatcake was nowhere
to be seen, and. the dark figures of
lobster-men, directed by Antuft,
were continuing at their work of
stacking bundles of dead fish in the
boat-house. ‘“We‘re kicking up a
stink about the housing situation”,
confided Antuft, “we’ve been threatening it for YeRre and now its happened. And we’re glad to |
such a real stinker as-Oatcake
help ‘us.

most indelicate. %

| years,

 

Alive he. was, smelly, ae

 
 
   

PS ¥ U FI pe or

who's who

-- ME EE EE EI EE

 

 

 

Last but not least in the personalities of Who’s Who comes a medical man, Ralph Plummer by name,
who hopes to receive his doctor’s degree this May.

Ralph was born in Woodstock, N.
B., but at the age of two he moved
to Hartland and it has been his home
ever since. Graduating from his
home town high school, Ralph came
to Dalhousie in the. Fall of 87,
where, after two years of Arts, he
joined the graduating class of ’41.

In the Spring of 1939, after a
hard-fought contest, Plummer was
elected President of the D.A. A.C.
and a fine job indeed did. our
“Cuddles” do in handling sports at
Dal; his record will be hard to better. He proved himself to be a
great organizer by his work in conjunction with the Council on the festivities which accompanied the Caledonia game.

Ralph has served his fellow students in various other capacities,
such as being a trumpeter and playing interfaculty hockey for two
in which the Meds were
champs. Ralph has also represented
Medicine on the Students’ Council.

All in all, you can see that Mr.
Plummer had a varied and active
career at college. Although never
achieving any supreme academic
glory, he has been a better than average student and hopes to join the
medical staff of the Royal Canadian
Navy after graduation.

OBITER
SCRIPTA

respect the

 

 

Since many persons
poem,

I shall try one on my own;

And now that Munro Day is gone
and past

The question is “Can I pass that
Class ?”

For despite my work which has
been steady,

I think sometimes things are too
heavy,

And on
exams,

I feel like taking it “on the lam.”

the prospect of Spring

Since every year plus examination
shivers

| Something turns up to make me

quiver,

It’s something big and it always
" emerges

Just when I am on the verge of

The final drive, and the squaring
Sawa lin

In preparation for the final day.

Delighted at the success of their|Some years ago the Moose River

project, Rayne and Fizzleque, with
Sammy Skunk at their heels, wrung
the hands of John Gaunt and the
two chroniclers,

waved a final in
 

show
Gave me that very distracting blow,
And forced me to listen to radio
news,

tended osculation in the direction| Instead of giving work its just dues.

of Kissy Cameron‘s room at t

he Lately invasions and ultimatums

Sheriff's Haul, and moved off down Kept me from learning things ver
the waterfront in search of their

summer solitude with a final word nat

of advice to their grateful public...

“Don‘t Get Plucked ent Month” |

—_—--——
e dead © he'll wotferid nostrils ° of the |

FLASH!

Hv. i Just befolia going to press we

“were ‘informéd that a certain high
school pin at Shirreff Hall is no
longer in evidence. We gather that
it has been replaced by that gor
'geous specimen of fraternity “hard
ware”. How about a “scoop” on the
subject, Ruth?

~
;
y

a
-*

bs

batim,

Suing, when'ora et labora was
in play

|The tourists decided on a trip to old
Norway.

'So now I find myself apprehensive
| About the talkéd*of Sprig offensive, | :

For. .is, there _:the.. patience:
nation?
To hold things up till Convocation?

Maybe, but like a seer, I still fear

For even the notorious “Great Deceiver”

Can’t do a thing about Spring Fever.

 

| e
“A Girl, A Guy,

. “ANGELS OVER BROAWAY”

 

 

 

  
 
   
   
       

rye
= « “
: | ‘i oe.
nae . . i tT 9
ae — “of ’ 4
—" _ ae bt ” * .
a - iz

1

     
 

APPEARANCE
DEMANDS

Handsome Head Wear

A fine Easter suit, topcoat, shirt and tie deserve the com
 

  

pliment of a fine Easter hat. EATON’S selection is not
only very wide, but offers you outstanding values. See
the hat that'll make your Easter complete ... now!
Sizes 6% to 7% ... of fur felts in many good styles and

3.50 ° 4.50

Eaton’s—Main Floor

-BATON Co.

EATON Prices,
GREE s celtic oa 5%

 

_
«
Dee eee caer ere ee eee eee eee een nc cence nce ee ee eee
- 5B i ot
A oo m z ‘i a .
é, ! < % yo 2
~% . f 4 = ~
im 12 3 a Page
— x = * ! > oe a Ce ee

 

 

ORPHEUS

Today and Saturday

“RIDIN’ ON A RAINBOW”
Gene Autry
“THAT OLD GANG OF MINE”

Monday ~ Tuesday -— Wednes.

“HERE COMES THE NAVY”
James Cagney and Pat O’Brien
and “MEET THE MISSUS”

Thursday

“THE GIRL FROM
GOD'S COUNTRY”
“DRUMS OF THE DESERT”

CASINO |

And A Gob”

LUCILLE BALL

EDMUND O’BRIEN
GEORGE MURPHY

OXFORD

Today and Saturday
“DOOMED CARAVAN”
and “THE SEA HAWK”

Errol Flynn — Brenda Marshall

 

CAPITOL

THEATRE ~ HALIFAX

 

Today ~ Saturday — Monday

“Kitty Foyle”
GINGER ROGERS

in her

Academy Winning Award
Performance

*

Tuesday -— Wednes. Z Thurs.

Monday and Tuesday

“ROMANCE OF
THE RIO GRANDE”

GARRICK

Today and Saturday

“DOWN ARGENTINE WAY”
“CHAN’S MURDER CRUISE”

Neen en rence eee rere eee rr eee ene ay

“Come Live
With Me”

JAMES STEWART
and HEDY LAMARR

Monday Tuesday, Wednesday
“HOWARDS OF VIRGINIA”

“THE CASE OF THE
BLACK PARROT”

Thursday
“THE THIEF OF BAGDAD”

ie oa
Cara ;

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Blondes and brunettes:
prefer
Prylcreemed men

‘"o attract a lovely lady
A man needn't be “tall,
Dark and handsome,” «

. “Butthe must be well-groomed,
Especially above the collar.
That's why the loveliest ladies
Prefer men
To whom daily Brylcreem
Is as important as the morning shave.
BRYLCREEM ...

Tames the most unruly locks.

Gives sparkle to dry hair.

Fights falling hair and dandruff.

And promotes healthy growth.

It’s easy to have hair everyone admires.
Over 18,000,000 tubes and jars of
Brylcreem bought yearly.

So it must be good!

Costs as little as 25c.

For extra economy

Get the big 50¢ tube or jar.
Money-back guarantee.

41-6 fas Ag aia tse,

sPYVgee aay

Olt iad ay we Thee cola Iie

OTe TI Aras Pe Lely 4

it Mel Soka
Ve ee
» No Starch
» No Try

‘BUY BRITISH

ae

<3. 4
Le ae 
ee i
Pr

   
  

re

= i a A
ee rn
=f

sae

be De we
¥
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   

 
    

eyo!

, ‘. yi rl
a 4 ha
+. in et
: 5 ‘ y \ » : ta 5
‘5 5 ry: ai ee
oh Pa ee ee
1 E
' (
Tx.

   
 

7

eR GRAS 4

e football s é son was one of the most successful in recent years
to Burnie Ralston’s efforts to give the players some of his knowl:
f the game. Practices were hampered by the uncertainty of ar
ntermediate League which offered little encouragement to the players
on that team but finally a league was formed comprising teams from St
Mary’s, Navy, P. E. I. Highlanders and Dalhousie. Several exhibition
games were also played by the Intermediate team and interest in that
 \eague revived. The Intermediate League title was won by St. Mary’s
“being 1 ndefeated in their threes games.
. ‘The Senior team started off at a good pace with an 8-0 win ove!
Truro in a game, which while not too impressive, gave the onlookers a
aste of what to expect in future games from the Tigers.

vis

 

   

F
ae af

  

 
 

m

_ the Navy only to falter in the game two days later, Thanksgiving Day,
‘against the Wanderers fifteen by a slim margin of three points. This
defeat seemed to be just the stimulus needed by the Dal boys, for they
ave the Truro team a 33-3 trouncing which was reminiscent
ar’s defeat of the Services’ team. The Navy boys upset the dope

next week b
~ Dalho fullback, Johnny Bird, who punted the Navy out of danger
- +t hout the game. The defeat by the Wanderers was revenged
_ week later in the last game of the City League schedule by a decisive
score of 18-3. Due to the ban on Intercollegiate sport, sport fans could
only speculate as to which was the best team, Dalhousie or Acadia, but

  

     
   
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  

: ot Caledonia for the McCurdy Cup
to a 8-3 tie.
a

=

while Dal and the latter team fought

  

:
7

Ht
F

    

<TBALL:

nee)
a.
a
i

a
¢
+).

aa

Se

Leas
va

|

Tigers received their first warning of what

om”
nt
Ss

 

mene = Ta

, [* S
a a
KG following this game, the Dal boys won ‘@ spectacular victory in a low

scoring game which indicated the tightness of play. The Navy quintet

Satta

oe.
a

P » ae
Fito),
>

i.

§ 4

In the first

A
rs

Dal Cubs were eliminated from the Intermediate League.

| HOCKEY:
The hockey team at Dalhousie followed along in the same old groove
_ this year as last, completing the league schedule without a win. At the
beginning of the year it was thought that the Intermediate League which
_ functioned so successfully last year would be resumed, but when other
| complications arose it was agreed that such a league would be imie practicable. 7:
_ As a substitute the College Service League was formed with St.
) _ Mary’s, Tech and Dalhousie taking part. The Dalhousie entry made a
_ very creditable showing in every game they played, but lack of practice
_ and the inability of players to devote the necessary time which the sport
| required, hindered the Tigers from making the showing they would otherwise be capable of making. It should be said that the reason Dalhousie

ra }

| team, Students at Dalhousie have not been the most enthusiastic sup- :
| porters in the world and this has a great effect on the aromas to Gene
However, the League served its purpose in giving those people at

e Dalhousie who are interested in the sport an opportunity to take part

te . in their favorite game, and what is far more important than winning

t games the Dalhousie team have set an example of sportsmanship which
_ future Dalhousie teams will do well to copy.

ne

 

BADMINTON:

thusiasts this year was the recommendation which they had successfully

accepted by the D.A.A.C. to award major “D’s” to the best players at
Dalhousie.

PING PONG:

Another sport which is so often abused but which has grown by leaps
and bounds at Dalhousie is ping pong. Under the directing hand of Colin
Smith the game took on a new lustre and the fiendish way the little batweilders entered the numerous tournaments is proof of the fact that it
_ 18 @ very important form of recreation and one which must be given due
_ consideration in the future by the responsible authorities.

M. P. Speaking—

{Continued from page one)
speaker in his native province. He

Glee Club Points—
(Continued from page one)

| joni Ye ee to discuss} Bert Perrot ...... Tats baie ef 14
: o French-Cana-| Marie Payzant ............ 3
the: war. pS | Os 1
Next Friday night, March 28th,|_ ee Buea ‘
Metm. J.) Cildwell, loader of the} **% Robineon -......-.... 40
C.C.F. party in the Canadian House CATMOR: TIGRE 6:4 iss sees 1
of Commons, will speak on the “War; Anita Rosenblum .......... 1
and Social Justice’. Mr. Coldwell,| Xenia Reid ............... 1
who was born in England in 1888,| Jack Shirley .............. 15
has spent most of his life school-| Barbara Schwartz ......... 1
teaching in Saskatchewan. There he; Barbara Sieniewicz ........ 7
has played a prominent part in| James Stevens ............ 5
Teachers’ Associations, on library} George Saunders ...,...... 2
committees and so on. He was; Anne Seaborne ............ 2
chairman of the Royal Commission; Inez Smith ............... 1
of Enquiry into the Public Service| Colin Smith .............. 1
of Saskatchewan, 1929-30. He was| John Tasman ............. 4
first elected to the House of Com-| Connie Spinner ........... 1
mons in 1933. Jack Woodbury ........... 12
This series of lectures is under; John Windebank .......... 8
_. the auspices of the Dalhousie Insti-| Edward Weir ............. 3
_ tute of Public Affairs, and they are} Don Warner .............. 6
held in the Chem. Theatre every} Edith Wolfson ........... Sick
| ao p ie at Mar MR i 8 a.
| moray Te a aa * et

  
 

INT

The next} snuk into this ‘yere

of last} painted cuspidor, we fe
the| ment to bring in materi

a has been rather weak in this sport is not due altogether to the hockey those who have co
 
 
 
 

~ . >

 
   

 

 

Well, that ferocious roar you just heard was the noise of
those two terrible Tigers tearing in with their bare claws
hanging out. Having scared out our meek feline cousin what
little corner last week by merely rolling

day saw the Tigers continue their pace with an 11-5 victory over] OUr big green eyes, the problem before us now is to find some
thing else to rip into.

We were going to solicit suggestions for our column this
week, but since all we had to offer for a prize was a handfelt that would not be sufficient induceal of a sufficiently high standard to fill

trimming the Tigers 3-0 when they produced last year’s| UP OUr favorite corner. So, taking our typewriter by the keys,

we will record first of all a few

al| absorbed on Munro Day.

The softball game was played with the usual vigour and
turned out to be oe , ae best events on the ae
tha 1; gained ity League ter many complications. | unfortunate that the boys do not get more opportunity to play
4 et nin eee sag pHR oe aoe abad ¢-3|this game during the term. We can remember the day when
| | the Interfaculty Softball League was one of the most popular

interfaculty sports on the campus in addition to being one of
the most “arguesting” affairs that we have ever witnessed.

The other events on the program were equally well demon| strated, with both the girls’ and boys’ basketball games draw
‘The Dal Tigers Basketball team also started off on the right feet by| ing a lot of favorable comment from the spectators. One thing

wning the Grads entry 34-19. They made it two straight by edging| we missed was the annual indoor hockey contest. We heard un- Wes

‘out the Army hoopsters the next week 40-36. Meanwhile, the Dal cubs / officially that the reason for this omission was that those in
were not so fortunate having come out on the wrong end twice. The |charge of the program were unable,
was yet to come when they | because of the crowded condition of
‘were set back by the Navy 41-26, but regained their winning stride the | the hospitals, to find a place to
next time by another win over the Grads. In the tilt with the Army lodge the casualties.

}

A really important achievement |

|" again asserted their superiority by overwhelming the Tigers once more |last week was the passing at the |
x take possession of the League leadership. Acadia being eliminated, Dal|annual meeting of the D.A.A.C. of |
te _ qualified to meet the Navy in the finals in a two-game total point series. | a recommendation to award four |
hi game the Dal quintet came out on the short end by three | major “D’s” and six minor “D's” to |
' points in a hard-fought match in which Burnie Ralston’s coaching proved |the outstanding badminton players
| itself to be even better than usual. The last game was all Navy with|at the university.
_ the Tigers trying vainly to cut down the lead. And so ended basketball. |mean that badminton has been made

This does not |
a major sport. It means that the |
best players at the university have |
been considered by the D,A.A.C. to|
be worthy of a major award. To |
make awards on a team basis would |
be impracticable at the present time
until such a time as intercollegiate
sport can be resumed. The badminton players are to be congratulated
on having finally achieved their goal
after many unsuccessful attempts.

 

Well, having completed the job of
making a mountain out of a molehill, we want to close down our little
column with a fond farewell to all
operated with us
in offering help
showing of any | fy) criticism and especially to those

who have had the courage to read |
this column since Christmas. We |
would also not forget all those back- |
seat drivers who drop into the
Gazette room each Wednesday
morning to tell us what all the little
Tigers are doing before we know it

Sports

ourselves. For next year’s

Badminton at Dalhousie continued this year to be one of the out-|Editor we would like to suggest
_ standing sports with more players taking part than in any other sport. |that he get an appropriation from
_ A great deal of credit must be given to the energetic leaders who have | the Students’ Council to install a
made the game so popular. The prospects for next year are even better death ray across the Gazette room
_ than this and after the war it is to be hoped that Intercollegiate com- door to exterminate these above menpetition will be resumed. A major achievement of the badminton en- | tioned information booths.

 

And so bon soir, mesdames and
monsieurs, and best of luck in the
exams.

 

Since I met you

I can’t eat

I can’t sleep

I ean’t drink

Why not?

I’m broke.—Gateway.

RE LIGION
Percival Shuster

He could find out.—MeGill Daily.

“Personal”

When your gift is
mounted with the Dalhousie crest, you make
it a truly personal gift.

Arrange with Birks
for this exclusive service.

Henry Birks &

 

eaminel a 1 eta —
7 ©
Peer, * ‘ae ' e Ate)
y hs y es mn ToL Ps

os

O THE WHIRL OF SPORT OF DAL

IN THE

TIGER’S CORNER

by MUNRO and MacLEOD

Found peace in the god Zarathustra.
That was the only hideout

ene wt

 

 

 

Convocation—
(Continued from page one)

Tuesday, May 6th—
Tea Dance at Shirreff Hall—.50
Theatre Party.

Wednesday, May 7th—
Supper and Dance at Hubbards.

Thursday, May 8th—
(Encaenia Day at King’s). Theatre
Party.

Friday, May 9th— 7
Formal at Shirreff Hall—$2.50.

Saturday, May 10theTea at President Stanley’s.

Sunday, May 11th—
Baccalaureate Service.
Parade at St. Davids.

Award Won—

(Continued from page onc)

School of Wives, the costumes called
for a show of artistry and originality by the designers, the play as
such: dialogue etc. (although the audience could not hear it) was preferred by Professor Bennet.

“New School of Wives’, on the
other hand, with its faults in casting and general simplicity of the
play, nevertheless’ presented no
glaring weaknesses as did the Delta
Gamma Presentation. ..... .....-.

The latter was marked by the brillian success of Yvonne Mounsey who
stood head and shoulders over the
other characters. Her “supporting
cast” displayed a woeful lack of
finish by speaking continually to the Monday, May 12th—
back screen; their weakness was| Alumni and Alumnae Banquets.
climaxed when Miss Patchell broke | Tuesday, May 13th—
down completely into a f Convocation Day.

state of |
laughter. | Convocation Ball (separate price)

Church

of the vague impressions we

It is

 

 

DRUGGISTS ce
Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets |

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S. |

MENT

8

 

 

FOR SHEER ENJOY

\\@/ BEST MILK
4 CHOCOLATE

  

 

o
“Oh Wad some Power the Giftie gie us

to see ourselves as others see us!”

Unirorms
To Your laste

@ Officers’ uniforms must be made to the regulations set down
by each branch of the service. However, this still gives you the
epportunity of designating the quality of the tailoring. Discriminating officers of the Navy, Army and Air Force instinctively turn
to Tip Top Tailors for their uniforms. They know that Tip Top
lavishes all its skill, care and knowledge on every uniform it produces. Fine woolens combined with conscientious tailoring is
your guarantee of that essential smartness so desirable in an
officer’s uniform. The friendly advice of your nearest Tip Top
store is at your complete service.

ee ee

Correct raincoats
supplied for all
three services

 

Lid.

Prete te i

Officers’ Uniforms made at Tip Top confam to
regulations in every last detail buz at Tip Top
you have the advantage «/ jine fabrics, individual
tailoring in the best of good taste.

(

422 BARRINGTON ST., HALIFAX

 
