 
 
     

 
 
 
  

  
    
  
  
    
  

       
    

 

sous. side, we thought we'd offer

‘

yy i
y aap ee
5 ,

  

and as every ordeal has its humore little gems. They may help
At
our evening drill in
mm, which, large as it is,
get crowded. There is the
stamping of feet, the clatter of rifle

en’s we do

  

movements, and the barking of com_ mands in various peculiar tones and

accents, Two units were marching
steadily toward each other. The
men in each front rank looked worried. Nearer, ever nearer, they approached. Suddenly the command
rang out “Attention”! One other
classic command is that of the young
officer, anxious for the welfare of
his men, who ordered “Eyes Right”
as the platoon was passing the
women’s residence.

As time goes on, however, this little problem of imminent collision
seems to worry us less and less.
Standing in the balcony of the gym,
your observer noted squads marching through each other with the
greatest of ease. Your reporter
was inevitably reminded of the Musical Ride of the Royal Canadian Dra
_ goons, but he missed the horses.

= * *

A writer in the Toronto Varsity
comments on the sad state of the
English language when it falls into
the reugh hands of the Army. He
asks what one is to make of such
gibberish as “Slope Hipes’! and
“Order Tuh”, And he concludes by
Saying could anyone be blamed for
not understanding “Stummacheese”?
So far the worst your reporter has
encountered is “Stand at Hize”, and
the old familiar “Heft, hipe, heft,
hipe.” But it’s getting serious, and
something will have to be done
about it.

* * *

There seems to be spreading
across this fair land a blot that is
known as “knee socks”, This plague
manifests itself on the legs of coeds. It was rumored in the McGill
Daily that they were cooked up by
“Mademoiselle” and Harper’s bizarre “Bazaar.” Be that as it may,
the Toronto Varsity made its own
“Gallup” poll of male opinion on the
tampus. “Childish, sloppy and uncomplimentary” said most of the
men queried. In this they follow
the example of the men out at U. of
B. C. Some of the comments made
were “they look like little Red Riding Hoods running around the campus” and “they’ll be wearing pigtails
next.” One man believed that they
were a form of freshette initiation.
Little did he know of feminine psychology. ;

Well, to mix metaphors, now that
we’ve sown the whirlwind, we await
the deluge.

Kapak Defies
Moot Court

During last week’s Supreme Moot
Courtproceedings “Wee Willie” Kapak was cited for Contempt of
Court. Kapak escaped the custody
of the Sheriff and absconded. Thurgood, L.C.J., ordered his arrest by
Warrant on a charge of “Gross Contempt”. Kapak will appear at the
next Criminal Session of the Court.
The burning question is, “Will Kapak plead insanity ?”

The case before the Court Friday,
Nov. 8th, was, Union of London &
Smith’s Bank, Ltd., plaintiff appellant, vs. Wasserberg, defendant respondent. This action arose on an
originating Summons before Mr.
Justice Sargent, Chancery Division,
on the question. (inter alia) whether
the testator, Solomon H. Wasserberg
shortly before his death made an effectual “Donatio Mortis Causa” (gift
on contemplation of death) to his

 

wife of a number of Bearer Bonds

valued at £19,000.

-F. A. Thurgood, L.C.J., Wismer,

L.J., and Phillips, L.J., found for the

appellants, represented by W. M.
erguson, K.C., while MacRitchie,

 

DMR aces bn ecuttatn point

found for the respondents, repted by Duncan Chisholm, K.C.
| J. Turner was junior counsel.

iF

  

re i o ‘ 54
ty ue r wie oo ‘ie
E ’, ae ae ae,
y ; * , 4 ¥ Pe tS
‘ a? a!

a

     
  
  

~
*
\

a *

7

2 A ice a
ease, (Et ee

all universities across Canada,

“2's A
ee Aa tC
ag “yy

an Vitis be eee
PY ne ee
® VY hy viv
Tray

 

 
     

a)
aS
.

" Pat ae st
ye ee

ee He iy

   
 

- mn " +
' : Lt :
fe SA i PA aE, 2

ae h 4

   

Witting oe ey

 

=<ette

 

VOL, LXXIII

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 1

5, 1940 No. 7

 

TIGERS DRAW MARITIM

Delta Gamma Presents

nd Sunda

R. CN. Ba

Admission by Program

By permission of Commander J. C.
I, Edwards, the Band of the Royal

Canadian Navy will give a grand| 2

Symphonic concert on Sunday, Nov.
17th commencing at 8.30 p.m., in

the Gymnasium, Dalhousie Univer-|

sity. This concert is under the
sponsorship of Delta Gamma, and
the Band, conducted by Lieut. A. E.
Zeally, will be assisted by Adelaide
Flemming, Louise Bishop, Ralph
Fitch and Raymond Simpson, who
will give a group of vocal numbers.

Admission is by program, which
may be obtained from any member
of the Delta Gamma Executive for
25c, and on Saturday at Phinney’s
Music Store, Birk’s, and THaton’s.
The net proceeds are to be given to
the Canadian Red Cross Society.

D. A. A.C. have kindly consented
to arrange the chairs in the Gym
on Sunday for the concert. Members of the Delta Gamma Executive
will act as ushers.

PROGRAMME

Navy Band. Part I—
Coronation March ...Wm. Walton
“Crown Imperial”
No. 8 B Minor Symphony. .Schubert
i—Andante Moderato
2—Andante con Moto

 

Choral Numbers:

Solo: One Fine Day...... Puccini
Adelaide Fleming

Solo: A Sea Song

Ralph Fitch
Duet: Night Hymn at Sea
AS ae A. Goring Thomas

Louise Bishop and
Raymond Simpson

Navy Band. Part I—
The London Suite in 3 Parts
Pel eer ce aun io py Eric Coates
1. Covent Garden
2. Westminster
3. Knightbridge

A Manx Tone Poem..Haydn Wood
“Mannin Veen”
God Save The King

DALHOUSIE BULLETIN

Publication of the bulletins will
be commenced the first of the
week. Watch the various notice

boards and send all notices to
Douglas Mahon, 4 Cambridge St.
Phone B-2625.

Full details will be announced
next week in the Gazette.

the University.”

What is a Student Union Building ?
totally owned by and totally under the control of the Student Body—which
the gymnasium, a building which might fulfill the functions of a Union.
It is a place where the students can feel they are in

admittedly is not.

 

 

THE CASE FOR A STUDENTS’ UNION BUILDING
(A Contributed Editorial)

Since last Friday morning, about 100 signatures, many of them names
well known on this campus, have been placed on a petition asking the
Students’ Council to use its reserve fund to erect a Student Union Building
on Studley Campus, “for the use and enjoyment of the Students of

=i gus asoeeeeseapeshstglsusssipsiasipeiesRsat
Ee Eee
rey 3
eterna oe
me “

nf)
¥

One Moment

«

——_—————

ADELAIDE
FLEMING
Vice-President of
the Glee Club,
who will sing the
aria, “One Fine
Day” from Puccini’s opera “Madame Butterfly”,
at the Delta Gamma concert Sun
day.

Basketball practices have recommenced for the winter campaigns.
Big turn-outs are expected each
Wednesday and Friday at 12.30 p.m.

 

The Annual Med Ball at the Nova
Scotian on Thursday was successfully held. The committee included
| Dick Murphy, Art Ormiston and
ees Ross.

 

 

 

| The Effective Speaking Club ex
Corps Im “ve | pects a good turn-out on Tuesday, |
In Church Parade Nov. 19th, at 7.30 p.m., in the Arts|

Building.
Or Was It? | |
WwW s It | Ask Rey Atwood about the lottery |

Regardless of what you think,| which he conducting. The prize is a |
Major Hogan was dissatisfied with Dal blazer, and tickets range from|
the showing of the “would-be gentle-| 1¢ to 25c, depending upon the way
men” cadets last Sunday morning, you make your choice. . |
when the majority paraded to All|

Saints’ Cathedral for the 11 a. m. | On Thursday, Nov. 14th, the Com- |

service. The Roman Catholic boys| merce Society elected Jack Chappell,
formed a much smaller squad at St.| Bob Johnson and Dorothy Graham
Thomas Aquinas and they did not!.as the committee to be in charge of
have the same _ difficulties with | their dance. It was voted that the|
keeping in step. |Navy Orchestra should be obtained |
If Dalhousie could develop a good | for the dance. It was also decided |
band and incorporate them into the | that the dance would be informal |
C.O.T.C. unit, we feel sure that/ and the price of admission $1.00 per
there would be _ better military | couple.
marching and less of the tap dancing or stampeding which the boys| If your permanent home address
have been blamed for conducting on, is changed you should notify R. H.
the pavements of this garrison city| Coates, Dominion Statistician. Temat an east coast Canadian port. | porary address changes do not conProbably it would help matters; cer him.
also if the Major reprimanded a few |

of the lieutenants, who, during the | Adale Rlecntion
|

route march, lagged behind the rear
Theme of Meet

ranks and consistently blurted out |
a step which was contrary to that
which Major Hogan and the first} Institute of Public Affairs
files were setting.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adult Education in a Changing
At any event Dalhousie’s “embryo| World was the topic of the Conferofficers” are capable of pleasing the| ence held under the auspices of the
public, because their marching be-| Institute of Public Affairs at the|
hind the Highland Band three weeks | Y.M.C.A. Saturday, November 9th. |
ago was a good example. | The speakers dealt with the vari-/|

The job remains to get the boys oys aspects of the changing poli- |
to look good “every” day, because, | tical, s

ocial and economic structure
as our adjutant says, before we be
of Canada and the role of the Adult |

in fostering |
dian army, we must be able to carry full and informative discussion of |
out smartly and with a dignity | thoce changes. ¥
worthy of the officers’ uniforms all |

' “| Dr. MacKenzie, speaking on the
orders issued by our superiors. Vive | background of political change,
le Canada!

stressed that basic to every discussion of problems of our democracy
at the present time was the necessity for winning the war. He envisaged a great increase of government control, especially of our economic life, which probably would
extend to the post war period.

Many speakers supported the view |
expressed by Drummond Wren, |
Director of the Workers’ Educational
Association that the problem of
social security was of first importance in maintaining the national
morale for victory.

The last part of the Conference
was devoted to a discussion, of the
methods which Adult Education|
should use. Here radio broadcasting, |
study groups and the extension of

 

NOTICE
Delta Gamma Dance at Shirreff
Hall, Thursday, Nov. 21—not Nov.|
20, as previously announced. Price
$1.00 per couple. Dancing 9 to 1.

 

 

 

First of all, it is a building

 

possession—where men and coeds alike ean gather (as they do now in| library services were in the fore
Roy’s store) to
Society.

smoke, talk, argue, and curse the Arts and Science | front.
It should contain a cafeteria (perhaps we could persuade Roy|of the Canadian Association for

Dr. E. A. Corbett, Director

to run it) where students could get regular, reasonably priced meals. It | Adult Education, spoke of the expershould have a committee room for conferences and meetings, and above | ience of the CBC and the Adult Edu
all it should have a nickelodeon and a dance floor the size of the lower cation Association
gym, where class parties could be held and where the students could come broadcasts.

for social pleasures at any time.

in educational
Dr. Corbett said that
; | broadeast talks and discussions in

Arguments for the building are numerous. Perhaps the best is the order to be effective must be sponfact that pride of ownership of such a building would build up our lagging taneous, topical and of a high

college spirit. If other facilities were added to it as time went on, the standard.

Papers were also read

whole student body would be attracted by it evenually, and a unity form-| by the Rev. J. W. A. Nicholson and

erly unheard of could be attained.

(Continued on page 2)

1.

eet ,
4 : i iS
east TAS ae ;

 
 

Miss Nora Bateson on problems of
Study Groups and Libraries.

Brinton

 

E CHAMPIONS

Collegians Just Fail

« Please lo Clinch Trophy

The Tigers missed winning the McTier trophy by the
smallest margin possible last Saturday when they tied Caledonia 3—3. Carrying the play to their opponents’ throughout the whole game, the Black and Gold squad were unable
to find a break in the Caledonian defense to go over for the
necessary try. ‘‘Bus’’ Phillips proved the hero of the contest when he booted a penalty kick over the bar from.a difficult angle immediately following the Miners’ sole score.
nie The Tigers ran, kicked and dribbled
the ball to, the Caledonia ten-yard
| line time after time throughout the
| whole game, but were forced back
| by opportune penalty kicks awarded
|their opponents by Referee Bev
| Piers. The first half was a contin|ual battle from the midfield strips
| to the Caledonia line as the Tigers
|attempted to score. Scoring was
| limited to the late part of the sec| ond half.
| Dal led off with hard play which
| settled about the fifty-yard line. The
| Tiger forwards, who held the advan| tage throughout the game, heeled
| the ball consistently. They were hin| dered, however, by the high kicks of
| their opponents, who came up fast
under the spirling pigskin. Long
| kicks to touch also hindered the Dal
| team.

Norm MacRitchie missed out on
a long penalty shot in the first half,
while MacInnis, Caledonia fullback,

- &

Regret Passing

 

Dalhousians and the citizens of
Halifax are mourning the loss of

G H MILLA leadi was unable to get a score in two

bie ea Reger ee es | nearly perfectly placed penalties.
ARR 0 5 re yea reer y ne Led by Web Macdonald and Macfather of Bill and George. Bill is

Ritchie, the scrum made long gains
hile G ; eienuat tn thertee dribbling plays during the first
a an ee sig 5 rr . i Ca | part of that period. Jack Ferguson
ora ; ai . d a € eo |at picking half, was bothered by the
d by the sudden death o

fath follow; h k Caledonia half line which came
Se Coreen Denes (atten: |around him very fast, but was able

to get away with fast, long kicks
for touch that made big gains.

In the second half luck was again
on the side of the Cape Bretoners as
they drove out of tough spots with
opportune penalty kicks and smart
running plays by Bob Murrant.
Early in the half they staged a
breakaway through the Dal defence,
only stopped by the combined efforts
made by Rev. M. O. Brinton, of Webber, Forsythe and Macdonald.
of the Central Baptist Church. Feindel started the Tiger drive

One of the results of the Sunday against the Caledonia goal line
training among students, he claimed,| again, with the rest of the backfield
was that it gave rise to a “conflict | aiding his nice exhibition of field
of loyalties” between: duty to their | running.
church teachings and loyalty to their; MacInnis, receiving a long kick,
country, and pointed out that the| was nailed on his ten-yard Hre.
regular forces did not train on the} Murrant, however, recovered and an
Sabbath. (Continued on Page Four)

a popular member of Class °43,

 

 

 

Cleric Scores |
Sunday Training

A city view on military training
at Dal was expressed by Rev. M. O.
in a sermon on Sunday,
printed in Monday’s “Herald”:

A protest against military training
being given students Sunday, was|
pastor |

 

 

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

 

 

Are Students Being Gypped?

Only 18% of the people quizzed thought the Students’ Council were
giving students their ten dollars worth this year. 73%, among whom were
three council members, blew the inquisitor’s ears back with a resonant
NO, while 3% opined that they “guessed they’d get better as the year
went on.” One honest man, a basketballer, wiping off his chops after a
meal at student expense, allowed that he at least was getting his money’s
worth. The remaining 4% were incapable of an opinion.

Union Building Now?

The petitioners who are currently plugging for an immediate start
on a Student Union Building were supported by 33% of the sixty students
asked. 62% averred that the plan was impracticable in wartime, 4%
were still trying to decide when the questioner left, and one gave the
revealing answer that it would make a good subject for a debate.

Have You Attended N. S. Legislature?

It was surprising to discover that 40% of those quizzed this week had
at some time made use of their democratic privilege and gone to see the
local legislators in action. 9% had not seen any of this province’s sessions but had attended legislatures elsewhere, but for the remaining 51%
the laws might just as well be enacted in camera.

 
any eas of THE GAZETTE ate those of the author; it cannot
Tepresent the opinion of the Student Body.

Curdy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle street, Halifax, N.S.

f GAZETTE STAFF

ITH :
a we. MARY JOHNSON

Steet Scag 8g pg
$e che og Se,
ir a okie Bets. a oe
ee era oe a ye
eee eb eS ee

ifices of re who gave their lives or the better i of

i t D he 2m ta bie conviction that democracy could be saved only on
the > fields of Flanders—in the conviction, indeed, that they were

aking the world safe for democracy. It is well that today we

should remember with respect the ideals which brought forth |
that sacrifice then, especially that we may see some light on the

as it is today. For once again we are plunged into war.
brutal because man has discovered more ways of killine

rae }

_ more disheartening because it is the second war in this quarter
tury. As we learn once more how to kill our fellow-men ir

the service of democracy and freedom, we cannot help askin
Prosi why it is that in this short space of years it hag) the wishful thinking of British coneC necessary again, why the elaborate system built up 2* | servatives and French Big Business

uilles has crumbled in twenty years of crises and cros*

DISGRACE ABOUNDING

By DOUGLAS REED

Disgrace Abounding is a brilliant
and scathing indictment of the policy
of the Chamberlain government in
the epoch-making months following
the Munich conference. His commentary is by no means confined to

-|the British scene, for he illustrates

and drives home his points by constant description of the effects of
that policy in countries which the
Chamberlain government claimed to
‘know. nothing about.’ It is in his
role as foreign correspondent for the
London Times that the author is at
his best and with vivid strokes he
brings to life the Central European
drama in remote corners of the continent — till yesterday, mere geographical expressions, but today
throbbing with new importance as
the German juggernaut rolls south
and east.

With amazing accuracy Reed outlines the shape of things to come in
|Europe (this book was published
shortly before the Russo-German
agreement and the shock with which
this unexpected development was
everywhere received will be remembered. He points out that only

interests could take as bona fide

 pampose . We have to ask ourselves what sort of a world or der | Hitler’s bluster about Russia being

oa

er ee are fighting for and how we hope to achieve it.

To do so we must consider the chaotic conditions under

£ which t the people of Europe have been compelled to exist in the

a i
tT if
ie a
‘| ‘

(meats since the war and the half-hearted expedients with which

we have attempted to cope with them. Grinding poverty, un.

aay Titan: and oppression have sapped the patience of th
\ Wi iS

He ia _ common people of Europe.
“we

2 who

Mg aac We thought that men coming together thus wou!

In our own comparative securitexpected crushed and bleeding peoples to put into office m~
would meet around conference tables and discuss commo’
blems peacefully, while we held all thd aces and refused

y discover that they had common interests, wh*
ther and we were working for very different ideo’
: : enough, they knew it and we didn’t. We, new
ding reason to be desperate, believed that democracy ar
om were so fundamental to the good of the human race

| tees no one could prefer any other system, but people who did
a not have enough to eat thought that bread was more important.

his failure to realize the fundamental cleavage of thought and
‘ liey which separated us from thd leaders of the peoples of
, and not the failure of the democracies to rearm, was

tre) £ 1e deadly weakness of the post-war era.

a, ‘That was the tragedy of Neville Chamberlain. He was
‘al © more and no less muddleheaded than the great mass of
ritishers and Americans. His great misfortune was that

che came to realize the utter impossibility of his policy long

ter everyone else except the most stubborn of his coterie.

e Chamberlain believed that the interests of his class

could be protected by collaboration with a power which
NB age to be dominated by industrial capitalism and

_ aiming’ at a new world “order” which would be good for
business. What he failed to realize was that the Ger man

; “capitalisi and industrialists who supported National So
ie i ne

wit

f clalism were dupes as much as he, and that the men with
/ m he had to deal with were not financiers concerned

ve pith keeping the business world on an even keel, and willing

a) to compromise somewhat for the good of the class, but the
ip reenets of a hungry nation become desperate.

That greatly increased poverty and an almost total loss of
mal security are bound to follow in the wake of this war

. ite rena evident. The hunger and desperation so evident in

De

Pe today are part of the heritage to which we, as inhabi
a post-war world, will fall heir in our maturity. We
be called upon to reconstruct on a greater scale than ever
s been done before, to rebuild a world whose foundations have

8 “heen very nearly swept away.

ire Certainly the result will not be the survival of civilization
as. we know it today. Even although they may not see the

rence, the young soldiers of today are not dying for the
e things as did their predecessors of 1914-18. They are
ng, fundamentally, that we of the west shall have the task
ebuilding the world rather than the totalitarian rulers of
rope. But even the defeat of Germany will not assure us
it we can remake thq world according to our own desires.
end of the war will see: mankind divided, empoverished, and
eet of its own future. In that confusion, poverty, and

If the next decade sees us triumphant, it

; Ny ni “ge: Bie basin Day we are called upon to raise our hats
and be silent for two minutes. In the light of the twenty-two

sae a Noting the

ars that have passed, we would be well advised to replace
phate and remain silent—in thought over the future.

_ HERE'S A HOW D’YE DO!

unsightly condition of the bulletin boards wwistfully back to the neat announcements of last year.
y that the Council have at last appointed an editor, is it too
» to pores t sod this Spectacle of odd-shaped and various
of thumb-tacked all over the board will disappear ?

are carping, we might add that although one term js
there is still

eh

‘the eternal enemy of Germany. It
is painfully obvious to Reed that this
is only clever camouflage on the part
of the Nazis to play on the Gas|
prejudice of Mr. Chamberlain. It is
Britain that has the things that
Germany wants—world power and
overseas possesions, and the German
threat of the drang nach osten, although to be achieved in due time,
for the time at least was to lull the
British into a sense of false security.
A modern Cassandra, Reed frantically tries to warn his countrymen
of the German menace, of which they
seem blissfully unaware, and shows
how dismembered Czechoslovakia,
Yugoslavia, Hungary and the Balkan
States are all being geared for the
part they are to play in the German
war machine. His prognostication
of the Russo-German treaty and
subsequent events have been only

(can the British part in post 1931

Siaia Good: News
For Music Lovers

All VICTOR RED SEAL
RECORDS are now selling at lower prices than
ever before.

too fully verified, as any one of us
can testify.

Although refusing to be pinned
with any party label or tied to any
definite organization we may say
that Reed is a democrat and a patriot and leave it at that. His
sympathy is with the common runof-the-mill Englishman who in spite
of ‘owning’ the richest Empire the
world has ever seen is forced to live
in sordid mediocrity or poverty because of class privilege and power.
It is his firm conviction that England
in days gone by was great in spite,
not because wf this class. Only in
the light of fear for class privilege

Visit Phinney’s Record
Department today, and
listen to the music of
your favourite artists.

The Phinney Music Co., Ltd.

456 Barrington Street

European history be interpreted.)
What other explanation can be given

? \ lk °
Farmers Milk 1s
for the pro-fascist and anti-Socialist |
i oie ts thea eta a | RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME

counts for the maudlin compassion

felt for wealthy Jewish refugees, | YOU’LL LIKE IT.
and the callous disregard that is
shown for victims from war-torn ila
Spain or the human derelicts in the
depressed areas and slums of England itself. It is the perverse blindness and greed of this class that so
infuriates Reed that he at last resigns from the by-now reactionary |
London Times and carries on as a
free-lance journalist.

FARMERS’ LIMITED

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

Passing through these pages one
is convineed that democracy is something very vital to the author. Except to the favoured few he thinks
that England is no longer the land
of the free, and it enrages him to
see the short-sighted policy of a
class-ridden government lose the
support of the small democracies
that would one day have aided
Britain and France in the fight
against despotism. Dynamic, vitriolic, informative, only partially describe the book that gives a brililant
description of the history of our own
times. Disgrace Abounding not only
gives an exceptionally clever diagnosis of the troubles of contemporary
Euorpe but provides more than a few
proposals which must be carried out
if anything like permanent peace is
to be realized. A. W. M.

~

BLAKELEYS

C]

After any Show

or

WELCOME
TO
DALHOUSIE

Before any Meal
Think of

CO

LSS SSS

LIVING IN COLLEGE

(A former Dalhousie student now at Queens looks back on Dalhousie life).

People who are fond of giving us advice have developed the platitude

that we attend college to prepare for future life.

this is dangerous.

Like most half-truths,

They assume that if we study hard in college we will
be good citizens and always vote the right way.

work inevitably produces a good graduate, which is a bad assumption.
Many students go to college and work hard, yet graduate without

having gained (or lost) very many ideas. The people who go out of college with something more than a degree are those who live while they are
in the university. They don’t hide within the academic shelter so conveniently offered, but rather attempt to look at the problems of life while
they still have some chance to look at them clearly and carefully. Then
they graduate with some idea of what to do. They have lived, not escaped,
while in college, and are now equipped to face the immeasurably difficult
world that confronts them.

Professor Bennet used to eloquate in English 5 over the virtues of
English universities, because they gave time for discussing and recreation
that American colleges didn’t. He was right. And although these ad
irable qualities are not found in many colleges on this continent, they
are more to be found at Dalhousie than in most others.

Queen’s is a good college. It has “spirit”, has plenty of organization,
has all the things that dissatisfied people want in Dalhousie; but it hasn’t
got time; it hasn’t got the opportunity for discussion that Dalhousie
provides.

If your idea of life in college is to rush from one function to another,
go to Kingston. Dalhousie is no place for you. But if you desire the
interplay of ideas and exchange of views, if you desire some measure of
academic freedom in the midst of a tumultuous world, you are in the right
college.

Looking back, I think the most valuable part of my years at Dalhousie was time taken to talk with fellow students. Time to sit around
and see where we were going, and what to do about it. And (I hope this
doesn’t sound smug) the tragedy of Dalhousie is that so many students
don’t avail themselves of this magnificent opportunity offered them for
four short years, so soon to be lost and never recovered.

GLYNN FIRTH.

THE CASE FOR A STUDENTS’ UNION BUILDING

(Continued from page one)

How strong that college spirit mentioned above is today, might
perhaps be shown by a financial campaign for the Union. For the money
will have to be raised in some way if the project is to go through, and
it seems that the Council can grant little or no money. But various
campus societies might make grants—members of the C.O.T.C. might
agree to contribute small parts of their pay—other students could hand
over the residue of their caution money—a campus tag day could be held.
Such suggestion are easy to make. The money could be raised if the
students had the will and the energy to do it, and if they cared enough
for the campus life of their University.

It is the spirit that counts. Have we that spirit? Do we want a

worth reading in the, Students’ Union? Those are the questions that the students of Dalhousie

g us our money’s worth?

as a group must answer! 
They assume that hard
|
|

 

The National Fish Company, Limited

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

| Degrees: B.A., B.Se.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.

Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics

Modern Languages and History.

| Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of

M.A., M.Sc.
Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in ;
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.
0

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Se. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
  
  

 
 

 

 

 

to
<t

Sara “Ty rows (aa aanwnenenwan yy
es +

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  

bos

  
     
  
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
 
 
      
  
  

| a ; training. He also played hoc
me, it as a freshman in the Faculty
of Commerce. Four years later he
sraduated with not only a Com
wt Pitta his heavy courses of
, c George found time to do other the showers to get in condition. See
_ Formal left her

nis week we introduce you toa
Haligonian—a chap who was

ey for the school team and took
rt in debating.
| the year 1935 George entered

ve degree but also an Arts de
|

s. On the field of sport he
‘icipated in interfaculty football

ond basketball.
In ’85 he was the class represenive on D.A.A.C. In ’89 George
a member of the Law football
ey that won the Interfaculty

© ; ae Rugby title.

For the last two years he has

been on the Dalhousie badminton

team, and besides playing a good
game of badminton he is no amateur
with a tennis racquet.

The first year at college George
represented his class in debating.
In 38 he, with Zilpha Linkletter,
won the Bennett Shield debates.

Last year George -was vice-president of Sodales and this year he is
president and also vice-president of
the EffectiveSpeaking Club. He was
awarded his gold “D” for debating
against St. Francis Xavier and St.
Mary’s.

At the present time George is
studying third year law and will
graduate in the Spring with another
degree. He has a commission in
the Ist Halifax Coast Brigade, R.
C, A.,and has been granted leave to

2 complete his studies.

No doubt you have all noticed the
0. C. of “B” company in our own
C. 0. T. C—yes, you’re right, that’s
George Piercey!

After the war he hopes to practice law, and) looking over his successful record as a student we feel
sure that his career in law will be

- Cees:
.
a  ————————

 

ee ce area
The Rape of Lester de Pester or
Galling All Goons.

CHAPTER 7

The shades of night were falling
fast, thereby obscuring to some
extent the haze which was proceeding from Atwood Alley, where the
Filthy Fifteen were pouring a

brownish appearing liquid down Red |

Pain’s gullet, H. Rubbermug Smythe
sneaking away nostalgiacally to the
French books. Merry MacDeacon
was fleaing from the perpetual
dawg, stopping every few minutes to
throw one of Roy’s sandwiches at
the now-maddened pooch, while two
Pine Hellions were feverishly stuffing into their pockets philosophy
books and Obiter Scripts which
Blurbie Stewpot was methodistically
plucking from the shelves.

All at once, the peaceful scene
was interrupted by a dull pinkish
glow, which indicated that arts and
seances were being practiced. The
glow materialized into Ignatz
Schmidt standing in the pose of the
Statue of Liberty, with a Gazette
flaming in her right hand. Instantly
appeared a great crowd of executors
of various arts and seances, headed
by Galling Schmidt, bearing the head
of D. Birdlegs Black on an orgy.
By this time the unfortunate Sammy
Skunk, who had sneaked in after a
Polar Pie, was forced to retreat to

ing this murderous crowd, Ignatz
proceeded to pound on the defenceless wurlitzer with both hands and
one foot. The machine, taken by
surprise, proceeded to belch forth,
“Roll out the barrel’, into which the
beleagured Ignatz tripped and rolled and rolled till she rolled into the
midst of Burning Gallstone’s Troupe
of Timid Tigers, who were then
under the showers. Fortunately for
Ignatz (and the Tigers) they all had
their Tiger skins on.

Suddenly a piercing scream was
heard, which turned out to be nothing more than the terrible trainees
plunging bayonets into the unfortunate Lester de Pester, while Rufns
looked on shouting, “I told you so”.
Sergeant Minor Lollypop was meanwhile standing astride of the misguided Wilbur P. Fizzleque, at the
same time burbling insanely,
“Fromthehalttothehaltright FORM”.
In the melee a couple of med students could be seen frantically jab-|
bing Toxoid needles into any arm

marked “susceptible” which showed)

itself in the prostrate mass.
* # a

What will happen to Lester de
Pester? Will Ignatz convert the
Troupe of Torrid Tigers? Will
Phillip without a Wray of Barratts
sue the Gazette?

It smells like Rayne.

 

a very outstanding one. Our every
wish goes out towards his success.

 

 

 

— The
Pig Sty

a
No matter how hard we try, we

- just can’t seem to get rid of “Kissy”.

We understand the Shirreff Hall

rassed” after Dave called and asked
for a date for Friday night. What’s

Phil got you can't Leet Dave?

There ‘is a a in that quaint old)

-. saying, “Ruth is stranger than fic
tion”, for who should be there with.
our red-head but our own “Cuddles”.

¥ Where was his “Necks” best girl
i ee

ni * * &

wee

x oe O*

s this the start of another

he campus last year?
mt We ee 1S

   

 

 

_triumuirate of Norrie, Dotty and Eddie. However, he seems to be getting lots of help from certain quar
“socially embar- | ters.

* x. ¥

We wish “Penny” speedy recovery, although it has never been made
quitd clear to us whether her sore
nose was the result of splinters or
due to some other cause. Don is
certainly living up to the traditions.

* ob %
FABLES FROM THE ITCH
(Sadie Hawkins)
Weep all ye who hear this story

on me that poor little Of the female predatory;

‘lie bound to lose eventually.

oo that “Bunny’s” measles| At least, from all that I am told,
not the outcome of too much This is a fact, since days of old.
ng out of gas on Saturday But times have changed, as you can| be wished upon the hapless Auxilary Training Corps?

see,

, like the appendix fad that) For this has yet to bother me.

Because, no odds how slow I run,
I still miss out on all the fun.

« Yee Rayne lan Bases” «

- The
ird Estat
Thir e :
lowe’en, as all know full well, is a
stimulant to the imagination—One

WHY NOT A STUDLEY
SOCIETY?
Bob Dunsmore, 3rd year Arts:

Yes, I think it is a good idea to
combine the Studley societies in one
body if you can get them to work
together.

 

Barbara Schwartz, 3rd year Arts:

NO! Arts and Science is only a
young society and has not developed
yet. It is not fair to expect Commerce and Engineering to sacrifice
their individual organizations simply because Arts and Science cannot
get going.

Can you imagine Law, Medicine
and Dentistry forming a Forrest
Society? A Studley Society would
be just as impractical.

 

Kay Finnamore, 3rd year Arts:
What! No Commerce and Engineering societies? What about the
Millionaire’s and the Boilermaker’s ?
(Ed. note: Good point there, Kay.
We had not thought of it that way.)
John Harris, 3rd year Arts:
I think it is a desirable aim, but
ardly a feasible one. Commerce
and Engineering are very well organized and would not agree to becoming: merely part of a Studley
Society. Besides, would it not be
much the same as Arts and Science
is now—a few people doing all the
work with no interest or co-operation from the rest? It is a good
suggestion, but it will not work.

 

Margaret Graham, 4th year Arts:

It would be a very good idea if it
could be made to work, but I don’t
see Commerce and Engineering allowing themselves to be subordinated to a larger society, do you?

 

 

Obiter Scripta

After the long week-end of Nov.
llth, the question at the Law

School seemed to be, “Is a holiday |

idea ?”
Imagine the consternation of the
embryo lawyers on Tuesday when

!
:

 

they discovered to their sorrow and |
|amazement that the classes they | Betty MacKenzie is offered as evi
thought they were missing by vir-'
tue. of the holiday were posted to
be held later on in the week.
The situation of the second ye
class was particularly laughable.
Due to the holiday, that class, during the week of November 11th

+
4
‘
'
'
‘
‘
4
'
1
‘
:
‘
'
t
:
'
‘
:
'
4

 

First let me go way back to

October 31st and tell you that Hal
second year laddie dreamed up a
regular “Molotov Cocktail”— Scotch
Whiskey ‘diluted’ with 100% ethyl
alcohol! (Wonder which lab missed
alcohol that day?)

Any time you feel that the world
is sad and sordid, and love has disappeared from the face of God’s
green earth, go out and see the way
Ballem and Graham do it. Their
looks are as expressive as kisses
from lesser lights of the world of
romance.

The fact that Lazongas Watson,
Ritchie and Murphy were not seen
at a recent girl’s party proves almost conclusively that it doesn’t pay
to play the field. Of course, the fact
is that Murphy makes mistakes even
apart from his dealings with the fair
(should read ‘unfair”) sex—which is
why he is called Varicosity Murphy.
It is a matter for great regret with
this columnist that the name of
Charles Gordon has been neglected,
of late—We refuse to believe that he
has been behaving — he was seen
Monday afternoon at the tea dance,
dancing very prettily and, very enthusiastically, with a Miss McInnes.
Now, if he only had a uniform...
Recently, without a word of warning to innocent third year men who
might have coats stored in lockers
at the Forrest Building, and their
own locks on the lockers, the cupboards were broken open, possibly
looking for hidden treasure. First
and second years were asked to
double up on lockers and the net result is that there are now many
lockers empty, and the third years
have none.

Saturday was the day chosen by
one medical football player for ask
was the chap next door who was

truly tongue-lashed for it.
Don MacKeigan carries on, and if
it isn’t one beautiful freshette, it’s
another.

Tall, dark and handsome Ray |
Van H. was seen one day this year

|@ holiday, and if so, what’s the big | with one of the red heads of the Glee

Club.

Pine Hill’s Clary Fraser must be
a gentleman if it true that
gentlemen prefer blondes — pretty

is

_ dence.
One of the real benefits of a liberal
education is that it allows one to

ar\ talk intelligently to the lassies who

came here from Scotland. The Bank
stole Olga from Dalhousie, but
’| Scholar Lou Lawton brought her

would normally have two lectures in | back.

Sales instead of the usual three; at|_

 

ing the dean to take his place on the |
team. Or so it appeared—actually it |

heckling Jo-Jo and was well and}

 

Letters To The Editor
To the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

Dear Sir,—

In answer to the insidious campaign which is being circulated to
besmear my fair name, may I take
a few lines of your valuable space
to state in full sincerity that I do
not write “Fables of the Itch” which
are published anonymously in the
Gazette. I do not have any connection with writing these poems and I
have no idea wha does write them

- worse luck.

Your publication of this letter will
be a verification by you of this fact.

Gemology?

It is the new science of
precious stones and precious metals. It offers exact knowledge and assurance of value in all your
purchases.

The qualified student is
known as a Registered
Jeweller, and Birks retain
one for your protection.

Henry Birks &
Sons

Diamond Merchants

Yours truly,
Cc. R. GRAHAM.
We verify nothing.—Ed.

 

   
  
  
 
 
    
 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses
in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students .
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual MPARES

Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS
Eames

Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

OXFORD

SHOWING FOUR DAYS
Starting Wednesday

A NEW COMEDY STAR

in One of the Loudest Laugh
Pictures You’ve Set Through

GEORGE FORMBY in
“IT’S IN THE AIR”

CAPITOL

THEATRE ~- HALIFAX

—_————_-—

Today — Saturday - Monday
GARY COOPER in

“THE WESTERNER”

 

       
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
 

ORPHEUS

Friday and Saturday

“FLOWING GOLD”
Frances Farmer — Pat O’Brien
John Garfield

“DAYS OF JESSE JAMES”

Monday and Tuesday
“GIRL FROM HAVANA”
MANHATTAN HEART BEAT

Wednesday and Thursday

“KIT CARSON”
“ONE CROWDED NIGHT”

Tuesday — Wednes. - Thurs.

MYRNA LOY and
MELVIN DOUGLAS in

 

“THIRD FINGER
LEFT HAND”

 

CASINO

“Angels Over Broadway”

GARRICK

Friday and Saturdey
“I LOVE AGAIN”
CHARLIE CHAN

Starring “IN WAX MUSEUM”

 

DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, Jr.

Monday — Tuesday — Wednes.

| Armistice Day; the other,
|absence of any reasonable or official |

 

least, that is the way it used to be| /
before the beautiful scene was be-| four times a week, is without a doubt
smirched by the posting of a sched-| very healthful and valuable. Howule announcing two extra classes in| ever, as in the case at hand, when
Sales to be held during the week. | it is dished out to a squad of rather
Obviously one of these classes |imactive college boys in one big gob

was to make up for the one lost on| P&F ‘week, the results are bound to
in the | be anything but desirable.

In short, the trainee after his first
explanation, was assumed to be for period of P. T. winds up with a sore
good measure. back, aching legs and a fuming

Can such patent infringements: temper. During the next seven days

upon individual liberties be explain-| his aches and pains gradually dised away? |

near enough to shout about the in-| %° their former tone
gilt ete : seventh day he is in the same conjustice of specific performance). Et sR ia dE EEE Venetians
any event, it is certain that “c’est la) 10" * a eee:

. ‘ 9
guerre” cannot be made to take the | and is ready and willing (?) to go!
3 through the same procedure all over |
rap this time. |

and by the

 

 

iMok 1 Profi Gariia is appear, his muscles relax and Tel

 

again. In his second drill period he|
While on the topic of “la guerre”

and incidental skullduggery, the
subject of military training is arrived at by a route anything but
devious. Now this military training
is great stuff, the only trouble with’
it being that we don’t have half|
enough, (here even the experts
agree), and a humble scribe, would |
be the last to suggest the banishment, but, why in the name of time
must a) course in physical training

 

 

 

suffers from the P. T.

this process being repeated after
each successive period.

Even assuming the above to be
|; mere tommy-rot, how can one rebut |
the assertion that since there are all
too few hours devoted to military
training to be of much practical
value, why use up part of this precious time in a form of routine exercise which adds not a whit to the

in the same |
way as he did after the first period, |

physical

capital exercise, absolutely essential”
friend, “Taxi” Woodbury, So, girls, include me off your list—|to which statement I reply “Bunk”.

a hands full with the I’ve turned complete fepercret

 

knowledge of the student? Exercise
for its own sake is a fine thing, but
Some people say in defence of! exercise obtained while doing some
training, “Oh my, such) instructive manoeuvre is much better
—particularly when one is attempting to cover a large field of instruc
P. T., if taken regularly, say at least tion in a short and limited time.

RITA HAYWORTH
THOMAS MITCHELL

—__—

Nelson Eddy and
Jeanette Macdonald in
in “NEW MOON”
and “GOLDEN FLEECING”
Thursday
“SEA HAWK”

Errol Flynn — Anne Southern

Coming Soon!

“BRIGHAM YOUNG”

 

 

AND WHEN
J ‘PHONE
THE GALS

 

Don’ , get discouraged—get BRYLCREEM

Ladies always prefer men with well-groomed hair. And,
nowadays, it’s so easy to have it! BRYLCREEM—

@ Keeps stubborn hair soft,in ploce @ Checks annoying dandruff
all day, but never “‘greasy"’. and falling hair; avoids
@ Revitalizes the scalp, restores embarrassment
lustre and sheen to dry, lifeless @ Fights off baldness; encourages
hair. luxuriant hair growth.
Brylcreem is the Empire’s first choice hair dressing tonic; over
18,000,000 tubes and jars sold yearly. Get the new 25c size tube
from your dealer today. For extra economy buy the big 50c tube
or jar. Money-back guarantee.

BRYLCREEM

4-23R

SEP

WA
BUY BRITISH

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING TONIC
No Alcohol—No Gum—No Starch—No Soap

  
  
    
 
 
  
 
 

    
   

 

  

 
  
 

2% “
Ab dea ¢ er” 4
- re ul

,

te

4

 

f i At a meeting of representatives of
Dal, King’s, Tech and St. Mary’s a
College Service League was formed
Wednesday night.
MacDonald of Sydney and Dal hoc-.
key manager, was elected president

(eG 5
eg

gu
ey 4S

likely take place in the Arena. Skat
: *

| 2 his recent loss.

. oe ry

44) i. " x rh ae v2. ay rh
t ; FF a ete Ahege ff ns ve 50, Paae es re Yeo

| 4 A. oe Ae i vs an
ee y et he (fo ere eee Pe Pat
ey irr Salen Tote Get out Se ae yt
Pe et NR ee eI ae Ts

i HS ee a
, s

 

amd eT Le
fol 4 Peue ; ¥
’

ar ee ty rs i!
eee ee Pe -F
at at A Lag ye ‘ J a ‘ be ,
eat two | Dag ee ie ' Sal
i ra H AG er AS a :
mee ee ee
= aay

iy

   
  

bat ames
og
gg e
il eiit rif
E sf

rs
atl ;
ney me

ih Meds Win First
Interfaculty Game

Medicine won a 5-3 victory over
Law Friday, in the first game of the
interfaculty football schedule played.
The first contest was defaulted to

Engineers by Arts and Science. A
second default of the Freshmen to
Engineers has also been announced.

   

The close game between the two
professional school teams was played
with great vigor by both sides for
the first five minutes after which
the greater number of players on
both sides just lost interest in anything but geeting some breathing
spells and rest.

Alex (Sandy)

 
 

of the league, while Ralph Vaughn
and E. C. McGrath were elected secretary and treasurer respectively.
The league expects to play three
games before Christmas. They will

 
   
    
 
 

Law missed a chance for a tie
score when they failed to convert
their try but Medicine were successful and thus won the contest.

The deciding game for the championship will be played this afternoon
between Medicine and Engineers.
Both teams have had plenty of
players out for games and a close
contest is expected.

 

ing sessions will be held after the
game.

Another meeting will be held Saturday afternoon to work out the details of the schedule and to make
final rink arrangements.

Good hockey talent is in prospect
in all the colleges and it is expected
that practices for the Dal team will
be called almost immediately. A
final allocation of the D.A.A.C. hockey budget will also be made.

It is not expected that the nien
interested in hockey but in the professional schools will take an active
part in the team before Christmas.

Dal has suffered a number of
losses to her last year’s team, but
there remains a nucleus to build
about if they turn out. Sandy is
looking for a real team to meet real
competition.

THEY DID IT

The Universities of Western
Canada have resumed intercollegiate sports. There is a strong
body of sportsmen in Dalhousie
who would like to do the same.
Students in other colleges in the
Maritimes would also like to participate (Mount A. Acadia).

In the West the movement
started with the Students’ Council
of the University of Alberta. A
petition to our council for a similar movement is in order from
those who would like to see the
intercollegiate games resumed.
Students, the iniative is yours.

_ PING PONG

The ping pong tournament is well
under way at present with some
third round matches played and
others being cleared off rapidly.

SPO

 

BY DON BLACK

; The Caledonia game which came upon us so suddenly has gone. There| ager and it is hoped that ground |
is no disputing that the Tigers outplayed their opponents in every depart-| hockey will pick up a bit and get

ment except getting the necessary lucky breaks. From information picked
up im various quarters we suggest that all the breaks were not so lucky
as they may have seemed to be at the time. At one point in the game
Rus Webber got off a long, low kick for touch that looked good for a two
or three yard scrum. However, the Caledonia linesman said that it went
on the end of the flag at the touch line. Witnesses at the point at the
time are sure that the ball was a least ten feet to the good on the sidelines. With the power drive the Tigers had underway then, the play
would have resulted in an almost certain score. However, Bev Piers did
not question the judgment of the linesman and the decision stands.

7 Here is a definite argument. for impartial: officials making all decisions in the game. It is true that in ordinary play the referee sees that
neither linesman takes too much ground for his team. It is also true that
what one man takes on one side the other official usually makes up on the
opposite line. However, in a game of this magnitude and in a decision on
which the whole game is very likely to rest, there is a case for impartial
men in all the official positions. We are not blaming Mr. Piers; he did
a good job refereeing. There is, however, evidence that the Caledonia man
Was wrong.

Bus Phillips is a very steady fellow. He knew just how much depended on his accuracy and ability Saturday. To the player that was instrumental in making the game a tie, even though it should have been a
rout in our favor, we say “thank you, Welsford.”

With credit abounding for the Dal team, we hesitate to express the
following opinion, but we think that Bob Murrant is still the outstanding
player on any English rugby team in Canada. He met his match Monday
when Sig Neilson was put on his trail, but he still made yardage when
the ball came his way in spite of the persistent and able work of the
sprint star. He is not as flashy as he used to be. He hasn’t the support
he once had, but he is a great player and a sportsman, more than could
be said of a number of his team-mates.

The outstanding feature of the game, as far as the writer was concerned, was the way in which the Dal forwards heeled the ball. With
ease and ability they brought it’ out about eighty per cent of the time.
That is good heeling for the best of teams. For a team that was weak
in this department for most of the season, the performance on Saturday
against supposedly superior forwards was nothing short of amazing. The
game was not a success from the point of view that we should have won
it, but it was a good game, a hard-fought game and a game that bodes
well for future McCurdy Cup contests.

Now that the season is finally over, as, incidentally, it was announced

on this page last week, we can turn to hockey. ;

That there will be intercollegiate hockey became a certainty Wednes
day night. Dal is not expected to muster her full strength before Christ
mas to play in the series of games planned for them, but after exams a
Yeal team will be ready to go on the ice.

7 n

e wish to express our sympathy to Bill Hagen, Cubs’ forward, in
;

   
   

.- Pate OA ee Te fae
|e emt ieee oct, eu CA
y tae py tine is
fig ‘
’ r f 4

vr

 
 

ee y
; 0 ;
ep bye rk
a
AUS eee ia)
" :

pF

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

St. Mary’s Downed
By Tiger Ruggers

The Tigers had a stiff workout
last Saturday when they met a fighting fifteen from St. Mary’s, unbeaten as yet this year. The seniors
quelled them, however, with little
difficulty, 8—0. The Dal scores came
in the second half with Charlié Burke
and Bert Vail going over for tries.
Bus Phillips coverted the second one.

The first half was scoreless with
the teams surging up and down the
field. St. Mary’s were forced to rely
on Foley’s kicking as. Vaughan was
kept well covered on running plays.

Both MacRitchie and Phillips missed penalty shots in the first half, the
former’s bouncing on the bar before
falling to the wrong side. The Dal
team pressed their opponents to
safety a number of times but were
unable to go over for a score. A
dribbling attack by St. Mary’s
brought them into Dal territéry but
they were soon forced out.

In the second half the St. Mary’s
backfield broke quickly to try and
stem the Dal advances but after a
safety Burke, on a play aided by Web
MacDonald and MacRitchie went |
over for the first try. The captain |
missed the convert. |

On the second score Bert Vail)
went over on a dribbling attack. Bus |
Phillips converted from directly in|
front of the goal posts. |

Tigers: Webber, MacKenzie, Neil-'
son, Hutchins, MacIntosh, Forsythe, |
Burke, Ferguson, Roby, Phillips,
MacGregor, MacRitchie, MacDonald,
Vail, Leaf. |

St. Mary’s: Foley, L. MacDonald,,
Hill, Mulcahy, Vaughn, Meagher,
Ryan, Martin, H. MacDonald, Jannigan, Young, Moriarty, Bishop,
Hoganson, Reardon.

This Week In |
Girls’ Sport

|
;

 

by M. MacKeigan ®

R' j : & HO' i S| There was a D.G.A.C. meeting |
| Thursday noon and several impor- |

i'tant matters were settled. Frances

Webster was. elected hockey man- |

 

in al few really good games before |
the season is over. !

 

Connie Spinner was chosen by acclamation as ping-pong manager
and there are plans for a ladder
tournament. Balls can be obtained
from “Red” at 25 cents for two, or
from Miss Wray for a nickel each.

 

 

 

The first basketball practice of the
season will be Fridav, Nov. 15, from
5.80 to 7. Everybody out! Supper
will be served free of charge in the |
homestead after the practice. Al-|
though it is not definite vet, the |
other times for baskethall pidetind|
will probably be on Wednasinva, |
from 9.45 to 11 p.m., and on Tues-|
day afternoons from 3 to 4.30.

 

 

|

There will be another D.G. A.C. |
meeting next Thursday noon. Let’s
have a good turn-out this time.

Interfaculty Basketball
Starts Next Week

Due to sverial O.T.C. parades the
scheduled onening of the interfacultv
basketball vlav was postponed for a
week last Tuesdav night. The regular schedule will be started next
Tuesday. Plavers have been gettine
some practice for these games during .the morning hours. Regular
baskethall vractices are heing held
each Wednesdav and Friday noon.
Intermediate competition is due to
get under way shortly before Christmas and senior after.

Class *44 To Stage Dance

A meeting of the Class of ’44 on
Thursday decided to hold the freshman dance on the 8rd Tuesday in
January. A committee appointed to
look after the affair consists of Elleanor (Cindy) MacPherson, Bob
Murphy and Doug Johnson.

Chris Arklie was delegated to find
out about prices and designs of class
pins.

A discussion was held on the class’
relations with Arts and Science.
Chris Arklie and Jim Stevens were
delegated to meet with other representatives to consider the constitution.

    

 

este eee
ee

pense
es

2 ; = 4

eS

ege HocKey League Started

Collegians Just Fail
Continued from Page One
opportune penalty brought the Min
ers into Dal territory. A long punt
with the forwards down under it
was the successful scoring play for
the Miners. Both Forsythe and Webber were receiving, but neither found
he could handle the ball. The wave
of forwards then engulfed them and
Bob Wadman took a pass from Nelipka to score. The latter missed the
convert.

The Tigers quickly recovered and
forged up the field, with Forsythe
leading the pack. An offside called
on Caledonia’s twenty-five yard line
gave Bus Phillips his chance to make
a successful penalty kick. .

The game was played in cold,
overcast weather before nearly two
thousand people. The field was muddy in places and the ball rather
greasy. The Dal band attended and
rendered a number of selections during the game. The Caledonia team
refused to play overtime, as they
said they were not eligible to under
the rules for the cup. They retain
the trophy, as it has to be won outright before it changes hands.

Dal Tigers: Webber, Feindel,
Hutchins, MacIntosh, Neilson, Forsythe, Ferguson, Burke, Phillips,
Macdonald, Ideson, Sutherland, Vail,
MacRitchie, MacGregor.

Caledonia: MacInnis, Jackson, Murrant, Anderson, O’Dell, Adshade,
Wadman, Cameron, Boutilier, Wilton, Nelipka, Leslie, Macdonald,
Wadman.

Provide for
YOUR FUTURE

 

SECURITY...

 

  
  

  

:

i

|

e 7 ° |

... By putting aside just |
a few dollars monthly |
The Mutual Life of Canada |
offers a variety of protection |
and savingsplans. Askarepre- |
sentative of Canada’s
oldest and largest |
“mutual’’ life insurance com- |
pany to give |
you full in- !
formation.

  
 
 
 

THE |

MUTUAL [FE

Established 1869
“Owned by the Policyholders’’

 

Head Office

 

 

x

B

4

og Pie DIFFERENT.

THE BEST MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

i ay i

  

Friday, November 15, 1940

 

 

:

|
Maritime Christmas Recess

All Classes Adjourn on FRIDAY, DEC. 20th, 1940
Both Day and Evening Classes Reassemble on

MONDAY, JANUARY 6th, 1941

ENTER ANY DAY GRADUATE ANY

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 College Street Halifax, N. S.
Ek. KAULBACH, C.A., Principal

MONTH

   

)
)
/

4

 

_ Evening Gowns Sportswear

Always something different at reasonable prices.
The Exclusive Style Centre.

|
|
|
Afternoon Dresses |
|
|

| > Kay’s Limited

 

 

  

Maritime Furriers

   

Invite you to inspect their

   

Trew and varied assortment

   

| in Fur Coats and Evening

| Wraps.
| =

Hats made to order.

 
       
   
 

ee

Se ae a

The

|

ole

a ae) ae
' 2 PRI : oe ms HA
PM

Roe At eee

7.

as

 

 

   

PT? :
seo?

  
 

sgt
per a\/ aps
aa

Nei

[sun's

Pa . } eo ee. \ i hil Ae
