   
   

  

 

        
 
 

- CANADIAN
* CAMPUS

a 1 By Helen Robbins
(CUP, Editor, Acadia Athenaeum)

 

 

_ Bravely withstanding the seige of
measles which seems to be making
--—s- {nroads from coast to coast, we sum| —s- mon our recalcitrant sense of humor
‘to appreciate the comment of the
|  U.B.C. nurse to the effect that

P oh dances are conducive to measles.
_——s« “We're waiting for the effects of the

Junior Prom,” she said resignedly
sand warned sagely “My advice is to
| stay away from dances.”

_ "Tig reminiscent of the terse admonition to Acadia girls concerning
the spread of infectious disease —
something about “down there at the
gym, dancing so close you couldn't
put even a pin between them, etc.,

etc.”
: tk k ok

The chief topic of conversation at
U.N.B. is, of course, the new Lady
Beaverbrook gymnasium, with its
wonderfully adequate facilities for
sports and military training.

The opening on Friday evening,
Feb. 21, was marked by a military
ball and two exhibition basketball
fixtures, one between the men of
U.N.B. and Mt. A. and the other,
ULN.B. co-eds versus a sextet from
Acadia.

* XK

“While Joe College is drilling in
the armouries and sitting in C.O.T.C.
lectures, what is Josephine College
doing?

According to the McMaster Silhouette, she is knitting blue helmets
and khaki helmets, for knitting is
fashionable nowadays. Though many
of the Josephine Colleges may not
have been very expert previously,
the current popular song “Practice

 

Three important awards were presented on|
Munro Day this year. The Malcolm Honour |
Award, which is the highest tribute that can
be paid to any student by his fellow classmates,
was presented to Clayton Hutchins, one of “the
The Bob Walter Memorial | Mackay from Pictou. Helen has done extremely

boys in Law”.

ceases ae

' TR ee idol ee:

peered 3

bY Pere es ‘ 7 2
7 os ‘

aa

“THE COLLEGE |}
a a

Ss Me arate
ss : eo

was presented to Bert Vail, who is quiet but
efficient.

The Panhellenic Award is comparatively
new. This is the third year it has been given
Ito the most outstanding Freshette, Helen

 

Award, given for the first time this year for | well in her studies and has taken an active part
the best all-round of the Engineers’ graduates, in many of the college activities.

 

Important Debates This Week|Council Campaign

 

Sodales Debating Society, hungry
for a win, will oppose a visiting
team of St, Francis Xavier debaters
next Thursday night in Room 8,
Arts Building, to wind up the
schedule of the Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League for this
year.

Outargued on two other occasions
this season by Mount Allison and

 

| Nears $400 Mark

Request That Uncanvassed
Students Come Forward
This Week

The Student Council joint I.S.S.Red Cross Campaign will be completed within the next two weeks.
At the present time it is estimated

On Wednesday evening, March 19,
at 8 o’clock, the only Girls’ Intercollegiate Debate of the year will
take place in the Art’s Building.
Dalhousie and Mount Saint Bernard
will fight the battle of words on the
subject: “Resolved that Craft
Unions are preferable to Industrial
Unions.”

Interest in Girls’ Debating at Dal

 
  

Sa Sa
s ‘ Aa
5 een
7 i.
’

tc LLL LLL LL LLL

that something approaching $400 |

— ae Aa .>

i r 1 Sete ee er we j
a ae ed ad oh er RIES gS Tey . + js
: 4 - epee ee
Se err eS Le eae ee
Ears hae a , a

- —T
ote ve

=e

- a _—
aang 3
nied

  

.

No. 19 .

N

Pi Phi and, Arts & Science
Plays Good Entertainment;
Munro Day Show Only,Fair

  

 

 

 

Adelaide Fleming and _ Louise
Bishop were not tired by their af‘ternoon appearances, because they
both sang very well in their solo
inumbers Tuesday night, but a little
more practice on the duet would
have resulted in a greater finesse.
They seemed too deeply concerned

The last two one-act plays in the
Conolly Shield competition were
presented before a Jarge and appreciative audience last Friday.

Pi Phi put on New School For
Wives, a production ‘“‘worthy of
competition with any play.” Excellently portrayed were several supposedly typical girls from a fashion- | with forming their words to reable finishing school. First we were Member that they were playing to
fairly taken by storm by the boist- | 2" audience.
erous, hail-fellow-well-met type, the | Dorothy Graham’s Hungarian
sort whose hand-shake leaves the! dance was very pretty, but the audibest of men weak, and an hour of! ence missed her usual brisk tapping.
whose memory would leave even |All that can be said about the skit
superman in a state of exhaustion.!on the bridge game is that it, at
Just in time we were relieved by the | least, was different. John Windesmooth entrance of the langorous|bank gave a very interesting and
young damsel who “drooped and | appropriate monologue which was
dripped very effectively” command-| enthusiastically received by the ading everybody’s attention by soul-|mirers of “Sam”.

 

ee oaronetine ene anybody | A singer that we should hear
bother about me.” We were simply | nore - a ae orefereii Satta
too, too, utterly captivated when | ore sesntalnas sotnah tein Ralph
the atmosphere changed with the | mitch, eit ae, erdioaneaad hiv

entrance of the brains of the party win dene Tittle times de aeoniiee
who brought us back to earth by for ee yal Harry Smith pin
rationalizing everything and every- l“March of Time” sa fiber’ Sas
body in the best psychological | --5 04 manner, but sc iti Minne
coon ‘chairs got after the first few pages.
lhe heroine of the plot, having| _ Me
not yet “found herself”, kept us in| The: Boys Chorus: needs

a few
; i. i Q = - f t —
suspense all evening, as to just what lessons from Mrs. Barratt on co

she would find. Finally, going one|°@nation. The hit of the show

 

better than her individualistic | ¥25 the last number by Bunny, the

lfriends, she found a man. | like of which has never been seen
ae . before on the Glee Club stage.
The supporting roles of the

mother; father and young man were| /%¢ Seneral effect of the ‘show

“an. | ¥a8 to leave the audience wishing
|other matronly sophomore from rere ae been sek. a oe ce
\English 2” rather stole the show ess singing. owever, the nks

? w Vv S soon as
|with her splendid representation of | V°™® T®™° ed as soon as the dance

the excitable, high-strung mother. me started and everyone went home
| happy.

;
| well and amazingly played.

 

Fe i Al) ,

. 4 ; = Were acs Ry hg we ere
neta etek a, PET TSM a a it? tae

: ; ; . -. - |has been collected. About two hun-| Arts and Science took over for|
” inspi to be-| University of New Brunswick by|seems to be sadly waning, but it is ; or |
makes perfect” inspires them y z E dred and fifty students have signed the second part of the program and |

 

‘ing away and proud to tell the world

as they did in their recent co-ed
issues, what they are accomplishing
for Canada’s War Effort.

* *

 
 
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
  

Ha ‘
h -—Ss- Speaking of the War Effort, the
_ eampaign for war savings grows by
leaps and bounds, with the University of Toronto’s President, H. J.
Cody, pictured touching a match to
_ War savings stamps bought as part
of the admission price to a Varsity
The Queen’s Journal in an editorial advances the admirable suggestion of a waiver of $5 training
_ per man in the C.O.T.C. to purchase
War Savings Certificates. These
_ gertificates might conceivably be
turned over to the Queen’s Building
Fund, which would be increased by
| $5000, when the certificates are
honored by the government.
ye * *
| A CUP. jotting from Dalhousie
| jnforms us that Hugh MacLellan,
of Sydney, N. S., a fourth-year
| geience student, is the first Mari
   
 
       
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
  

=,
ai

time student to be excused from

| glasses to carry on special work for
‘| the government.

, Since all the Canadian universi_ ties offered their co-operation to the
government, several science students

in Upper Canadian universities have

a c of them, seems to be wideread — articles appearing simulily in the Mt. A. Argosy and

gonish before a capacity audience,
the judges were unable to decide a
winner and the debate was declared
a draw.

Dalhousie will be ably represented
in this forthcoming verbal battle by
the all-Studley team of Ed. Morris,
of Halifax, and Jim Stevens, who
hails from Campbellton, N. B. Ed.
is a third year Arts student at Dal
and has had plenty of experience in
debating and public speaking, while
Jim, in his freshman year, has already distinguished himself by trimming last year’s Bennet Shield winners in the first of the Shield debates this year.

The resolution, Dalhousie upholding the affirmative, reads as follows:
RESOLVED that the United States
of America can help the cause of
world democracy more effectively by
a policy of all aid to Britain short
of war than by a formal declaration
of war against the Axis powers.
This is an interesting and timely
subject and it is hoped that a large
representation of the student body
will attend. The fact that the two
debaters from St. F. X. are both
from the U. S. should aid in drawing a crowd. If Room 3 proves insufficient to accommodate the
audience the debate will be held in
the Chemistry Theatre.

Judges will be the Honorable Mr.
Justice Carroll, of the Supreme
Court; Dr. F. G. Morehouse, Supervisor of Schools, and T. H. Coffin.

Plan to atend next Thursday evening, March 20th, at 8 p.m. and be
assured of an enjoyable and instructive debate.

Spirit and at least some interest in
debating. Let’s not have any empty
seats for the girls to talk to!

Margaret Farquhar and Lileen
Mader will uphold the negative of
the resolution for Dal, while Kay
Tompkins and Sheila Joan Barry
will support the affirmative for
Mount Saint Bernard. George Piereey, president of Sodales, has kindly
consented to chair the debate.

 

To help the committee wind up
the campaign on time, students
who have not yet signed away
their caution money are requested
to see one of the following collectors. Voluntary signing will make
the work of the committee much
earier: John Windebank, Dewar
MeLeod, Otto Antoft, Jack McKenzie, Harry Smith, Mary Doull,
Louise Bishop, Ruth McQuarrie.

 

 

One Moment
Please

 

The Class of °42 will meet in the
Arts Building Tuesday, March 18,
at twelve o’clock. Financial Report
of the Junior Prom will be present
eussion concerning the Arts and

Science Society.

ATTENTION, STUDENTS!

; Dr. Liston Pope, Ph.D., from Harvard University, is speaking at the
Y.M.C.A. tonight at 6.15 on “The

| We Don't Believe It

| Co-eds, particularly at American
‘colleges, go in for many a strange
thing in the line of dress. Some of
these incredible and often horrible
fashion fads get as far as the Varsity campus and enjoy a
career, but if the latest one to blos‘som forth in the States

According to the report, college

brief

reaches
ed, officers for the senior year will| here, someone should form a society | after overcoming her “
be elected, and there will be a dis-|to protect us against such things.| fulness” did no mean

| Bennet in the “Mammy” and “Zeke”
| rather stole the show, “even though
\it may have been petty larceny.”
| Zeke, with his naive manner, won
'more hearts than just that of Daisy,
who in her turn, by so cleverly combining “charm with bucollic stu|pidity” caused many a masculine
‘heart to flutter.

Mammy had the audience right
| with her from the very moment she
| appeared on the stage. Nothing
| bothered her,
| how unexpected, upset that
\complete self-sufficiency,
be the unexpected invasion of a
couple of “city folks” in distress, the
capture of a desperate bandit or
even the appearance, after some two
years, of the errant “Pappy”.
Mammy took life as it came, and

ithe Dal gym by storm.
We thought “Dynamite Ann”,
natural bashjob, even

|though she did not get her man,

come experts. - close margins, Sodales is confident | hoped that there will be a good |" *" ‘ hae eae
| Ra aa ec blow, of turning the tables against St. F.|turnout in support of our girls and are re a acess Mg ee the roof with Comin :
a : b 1 . Sverywhere eR ile. x on Thursday. Two years ago when to show our” visitors that we Dal- wo eg ar caution deposits and cas . Mountain. In this play | NEWFOUNDLAND
Pe noe, the two universities debated at Anti-|housians still have some College donations have been added. |we heartily agree with Professor |

_ CLUB MEETS

| On Sunday afternoon in the Murray Homestead a very interesting
meeting of the Newfoundland Club
was held. Professor MacKay as
guest speaker was introduced by
Chairman Allan Sparkes.

| Professor MacKay chose as_ his
topic, ‘‘Newfoundland and Confederation”. He stressed the vulnerabiiity of the Western Hemisphere to

nothing, no matter|attack and of the part Newfoundair of land, on account of her strategic powhether it | sition, would have to play in order

to prevent any such attack. He
|; went on to speak of the interest
‘Canada, Great Britain and the
| United States had in the Colony,
and how they are gradually taking
control of her defences.

In conelusion Professor MacKay
outlined several possibilities as to
| Newfoundland’s future--whether she
will retain her present status or be

 

girls will “wear frontier pants, with | Mrs. Hortense Belmont-Cliff and her taken over by Canada, or by the

a boy’s necktie tied about her waist
and a ‘cow’s tail’ stocking cap on
her head.”

Can you picture the campus peopled with such sights?

Sweet young niece were an excellent
foil for the
from Fishook Corner. Both parts
were well done. We especially liked
Auntie’s coiffure and her “European
accent”,

unsophisticated folk |

| United States,

Bill Rowe moved a
vote of thanks to the speaker for
|his kindness in’ coming and giving
the club such an interesting talk.

Elections for the year 1941-1942
|were then held. These resulted in

Christian and Economic Change’,’

and on the campus at 12 noon to-; The report of the D.A:A.C. meetmorrow in the Physics theatre on | ing and the article on the coming
“The American Students and the: Sodales debate were printed by a
War”. | special concession.

 

Professor Bennet, whom we have | Ted King as President, Moira
taken the liberty to quote herein,| Crowe as Vice-President, and Bill
acted as adjudicator, and, as usual,|Rowe as Secretary. Plans regardto use the time-worn but still per- ing an banquet to be held on April
tinent phrase, put on the best show | 12th were discussed. All Newfoundof the evening in his criticism of the | landers, whether at Dalhousie or in

 

two plays, as well as of Delta Gamma's entry, Petticoats Preferred,
which was presented several weeks

the city, are cordially invited, as
this is the last opportunity this year
at meeting together and spending a

 
 

BUY WAR SAVINGS STAMPS

 

ago. real Newfoundland evening.

 

 
 
 
  
    
 
    
   
      
   
 
    
        
  
   

  
 
 
 
 
 

cr
ae i
eal
aii

*

te 4 oe

   
  
 
   
  
  
 
     
 
 

J : etiietewagip. neers

? ” | | tas y 7 eth wine ‘ ait Pas
ae “ 1) uae ant RUAN,
: SLT) ink ba eee eae pr t Me, t: 5 at
baie iy t eo. te S is ; ‘i Cai iF yur
hee ui] peat : oo ; d ae : oa
eq: a 7 ’ 7 ; A L H¢ I ISIE
Tag Py nT a a4 ! —
: 1G : aay. , iS
—- - —- /— 
£7

 

cation i)

  
  

| ae

. >

CO-EDUCATION

 

 

pressed in any ¢ AZETTE are those of the author; it cannot .
d th t th "represent the epiaion of ae. eeeees USF: Sadie Hawkins Day having come
ee. and gone and this being the co-ed
== edition of the Gazette, it is only fitting that some part of the paper be
occupied by a dissertation on coeducation in general. Co-education
at Dalhousie is such an ordinary
feature of college life that it is
passed by lightly as an established
institution for all time. But it was
more than fifty years after the
founding of the university that the
first woman graduated. Even at
that time Dalhousie was _ broadminded, advocating co-education because it was more in accordance
with the democratic principle of
equal educational opportunity for
the two sexes, ;

McCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle street, Halifax, N. S.

  

Darth oe geht aU E Ua kh ew .k whiye eG SRNL PATCHELL
| MARGARET GRAHAM MOIRA CROWE

 
 

pew eeee

yd
eee een ew eee

;S ieveseeesssesss.. MARGIE PARKES, RITA HARRISON
Mag ee oe. sds cadievacdie sucess CONNIE SPINNER
wy Editor |.) ......5. vesssesesessPUSS FINNAMORE
-sasesse:¥VONNE MOUNSEY

 
  

reer nnee

 
 
 
   

*

OUR WAR EFFORT

_ Many of the students of Dalhousie are unaware of the
k being done around the University by the students themes to further Canada’s War Effort. In the fall, the proceeds
, football game with the Navy team were donated to the
Cross. Then the girls took a hand and, at an early meeting
Jelta Gamma, made plans for a concert to be given by the
y Band. Programs were sold as tickets and the proceeds
2 given to the Red Cross. Knitting began for Refugee
_ Children as well as for the services and the formation of First
‘ad _ Aid groups quickly followed. .
‘The Glee Club formed Concert parties last year to enterain the Service men in and around the city. This year a
delightful play “Spring Dance” by Philip Barry, was presented
____by the students for the Services. Also the facilities of the gym
-_-were extended for the use of Officers of His Majesty’s Royal
_ Navy—for dances and concerts produced by Royal Navy crews.
_ The Glee Club have co-operated by lending equipment such as
_ amplifying systems to the Concert Groups for Services which
_ are not connected with the college. Many of the talented
_ students whose homes are in Halifax work with these Concert
_ Groups during the college year as well as in the summer
on Other students who live in the city give several hours
_ @ach week to the Magazine Exchange for Service Men. The
_ students themselves have been most generous in not com_ Plaining when their use of time in the gymnasium for recrea_ tion was cut by almost 40%.
_.. When the demand for immunization against Diphtheria
because of war conditions became greater than the medical
_____ Profession in the city could cope with comfortably, the medical
By

aA o'er
ih Wome

  
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
  
     
   
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
    
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
   
   
     
    
     
   
 
 
  
 
   
    
   
    
    
   

According to evidence gathered
from History books, we may assume
that learning was for men, and except for a few cases, this was true.
Plato admitted women into the inner circle of the Academy on terms
of equality with men. This rule, it
seems, might be practiced more in
any age, for the only basis of coeducation that is practical is one of
intellectual equality of the sexes.
The Romans had a few schools for
both boys and girls, but they were
mainly those established by wealthy
people for members of their own
families. Then came the dim, dark
ages when any kind of education
was for the rich and the male, and
the women became adept in applying their metal utensils for cooking
and sewing.

But with the Renaissance the
whole world turned over a new leaf
and everybody tried to think of
something for recommendation that
would startle the world more than
the last suggestion given. The Humanists did it. The full development
of personality (a characteristic of
mankind which had not heretofore
existed) they made a chief aim of
education and held up literary accomplishment as a desirable mark
of personal distinction for men and
women. Luther and Calvin and
their followers urged that girls be
taught to read to be able to study
the Bible and teach it to their children. Hence in Scotland, Northern
England and later in New England,
district co-educational schools were
opened, but it is found that few
girls went beyond reading and writing. Co-education in Scotland did
not last long, however; soon the
government started to advocate separate schools for boys and girls because “it is not seemly that sic lasses should be among the lads.”

; af

“p37

students gave much of their time to the Immunization Clinics.
_ Although their time was already cut into by C.O.T.C.
- __._ On both campuses,the joint drive for the Red Cross and
a International Students Service, was conducted on a plan that
insures complete coverage of every student. At a recent
- ‘meeting, the Council of Students decided to invest $1,000
fi of available surplus in war loans with the expectation of a
__ further investment at a future date. Since this is the Co-ed
ar. edition of the Gazette, we must not forget that the girls living
_ in Shirreff Hall have bought a ten dollar War Savings Certi_ ficate with part of their House Dues. Halifax has become so
__+-War-conscious that the students take their participation in
_ Canada’s War Effort as normal routine.

rm ‘.
Bevis is
2
h
ay
evi
ot

|

 

LETTER FROM ENGLAND

_ ‘The letter below was sent to the editor by President
Stanley, to give the students of Dalhousie an idea of how much
_ any effort that is made to further the cause for which de_™ocracy is struggling, is appreciated. It is most necessary that
each do his part, and while thanks are not asked for our small
vices, it is gratifying to know that they are recognized.

Balmashanner,
_ Grove Road, Bournemouth.

From 1680 onwards, New England had co-education for financial
reasons. The government levied a
school tax on families with children
between the ages of six and ten
years, and since one school was
more economical and in most cases
more convenient, the Puritans allowed co-education.

_ I enclose a tiny poem which will interest you.
Jassical Scholar and a great admirer of the Golden Age of
Pericles, you must-be thrilled by the gallant achievements of
_ the heroic Greek army against the Italian invader. These,

show that the braggadocio of

i ated with the Libian debacle,
uly, when unmasked, is merely cardboard and camouflaged

The leaven of Pestalazzi’s thought
has worked both in Europe and America. He founded schools modelled
on the analogy of the home, boarding schools for boys and girls be- |
tween the ages of five and fifteen.

Up to the eighteenth century, secondary and university education for
girls was unthought of. After they
had learned how to read and write,
the girls sat back and left the men
to the pursuit of knowledge. It was
not until 1833 that Oberlin, Ohio,
founded a college for members of
both sexes.

canvas. We were proud to get your report of Canada’s stirring
war effort. All the Dominions are doing magnificently. The
_ way the civilian population of this island is facing and will
continue to face the Hun bombings, is the wonder of the world
___ and will indeed become one of the great epics of history. It
_ Makes one feel proud to be British. On the other hand, the
“name an will stink in the nostrils of the world for cen_. turies to come. We do not mind the day-raids, but we hate the
approach of the evening raiders, for we feel that each day is
| __—‘how a definite period in our life. One afternoon last week the
Me A . went three times while I was presiding at a Science
_ Meeting, but no one stirred. Two weeks ago the Alert went
_ twice while we were in a cinema, and only one person went
out! We have had no high explosive bombs so far in this
road, but we had some incendiaries which did no damage.
Please accept my Best Wishes for 1941.
Ba), Yours very sincerely,
| : - (Signed) John Cameron.

Re eo

GREECE, 1940

Greece, undismayed, in ages gone
Saved the world’s. soul at Marathon.
A darkness greater than before

Critics complain that co-education
is generally so organized that the
girls’ course of study is more or less |
assimilated to that of the boys, with |
the result that it cannot have the |
artistic or domestic character which |
is suitable for the majority of girls.
With woman establishing her place
in all branches of industry and business, as well as in the minds of the
people, it would seem that her
education should conform more and
more to that of the men.

ee!

4 j
Tat

a ~
ne. tn.
oe. 2

; f

Co-education comes after a long,

  

seeks to eclipse the world once more: uninteresting consideration of its
Wh So. aT PeCE in fearless, swift disdain, pros and cons, and many struggles,
, Strikes for but it still has far te go, for even

the soul of man again.

   

IF. B. at Dalhousie the girls take their

places behind the men and are considered as an after-thought.

 

 

LITERA

 

A ‘ | “ip ath) Fae
GAZETTE
ES

R Y
vp

A parody on Rudyard Kipling’s
famous poem.
(London Daily Sketch)

“If you can keep yourself from
going crackers,

“From all the things that you are
told to do,

“When Hitler send along his air attackers,

“With squibs and bombs to try to
frighten you,

“If you can hear that hellish banshee warning,

“Without that sinking feeling
your breast,

“If you can sleep in dugouts till
the morning, ©

“And never feel you ought to have
more rest,

“Tf you can laugh at every blackout stumble,

“Nor murmur when you cannot find
a pub,

“If you can eat your rations and
not grumble,

“About the wicked price you pay for
grub,

“Tf you can keep depression down
to zero,

“And view it all as just a bit of
fun,

“Then Sir, you’ll be a ruddy hero,

“And what is more, you'll be the
only one.”

  

“Do you feel let down when you land?”
"Yes, but a Sweet Cap picks me up.”

      
 
   
       
    
    
      
   
       
   
       
      
        
 

in

     
   
    
 

   

™
mak CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

Cakes

eed

  
  

WALLACE SHOES “Personal”

When your gift is
mounted with the Dalhousie crest, you make
it a truly personal gift.

Now is the time
For Ski Boots

and SKATING OUTFITS

for Men and Women
Wide Range of Styles

te

Arrange with Birks
for this exclusive ser
Priced from $3.95 to $11 vice.

Wallace Bros.
Limited
415 BARRINGTON ST.

REBELLION

College men—
Bah!
They’re egotistical
Self-centered
And over-bearing.

They want us girls

To stand forever

In rah-rah formation

With hero-worship

In our eyes

And “Oh you great

Big football hero”
On our lips.

They like to start arguments
About anything under the. sun.
But if we should gain a point
They fix us with a dead eye
And start talking backwards
And swear never to take

That gal out again.

The National Fish Company, Limited
FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

 

Farmers’ Milk 1s
RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME

YOU’LL LIKE IT.

Se

They’re fickle
As the winds
And can’t even be depended upon
To keep a date
Made with fervor
Two nights before.

They seem to. think
That they stand
In a high and mighty class
All by themselves
And that all. girls
Were made for
Is to kow-tow to them.

Fact is I can’t see a single
Thing nice about them.

hey think they can do
Anything they want

And get away with that

(along with some more)

They are positively

Too darned sure of themselves

And of us.

 

   
  
 
 

| Balhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

  

But lordy
How we like ’em!
-~Athenaeum.

  
      
 
     
    
      
     
   
     
     
       
      

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

 

Canadian Campus—

Continued from page one

  

Arts and Science Faculty

| Degrees: B.A., B.Se.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics

Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses, of an standing, leading to degrees of
, M.Se.

| Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

| Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

£

With the coming of the first faint
harbingers of spring, some of us
begin to gather the fruits of our
labors. Seventeen Literary X’s were
recently awarded to members of the
Xaverian staff and to the Year Book
staff, while seven of Queen’s University’s outstanding athletes will
receive their Senior Q’s on Friday,
March 7,

ee ee

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexeelled reputation.

We are intrigued by the sent®
mentality of students at the University of Manitoba in presenting
Dr. Smith, professor in Education,
with a delectable, lemon-filled birthday cake. Could it be that their
thoughtfulness was prompted by a
premonition of his generous reciprocation? At any rate, he preceeded
to dispense with the lecture and to
distribute his present to the students.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Se. course about $190.00 a year,
Residence

| Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

     
      

aaSSESRSNENNNNEEnneeic

  

 

ek :
PT ee te oe eee ee
 
 

   
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 

_ The little lady whose picture ap. the songbird of Dalise called Miss Louise |
ies 5 Louise was born in Bridgetown
Sait and went to high school there. DurBy: ing her early schooling she not only

led ‘her class but participated in |

many athletics, chiefly softball,'
= basketball and field hockey. Miss
‘ore next went to Normal School
Borner she was elected Class Presi
    
   
    
     
    
    
      
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
     
  
 
 
   
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
    
    
   
  
   
   
  
  
    
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
    
    
   

 

#4

Fe In the Fall of ’89 Louise entered
Hh Dal as a fresHie-soph, with an
eth McKenna scholarship. AlDaal immediately Miss Bishop
oar Bs to take a keen interest in
extra-curricular activities. Debating |
ie against Mt. Allison and University
of New Brunswick, Louise won her
Gold “D” for intercollegiate debating. Glee Club is also another.
branch in which Louise has partici\ pated. More than once her lovely |
_ . voice has enthralled Dalhousie audif _ jences,
- @his year Louise was an Arts
qyend Science representative on the |

7)”

_ ber of the Council Executive.

ma, Miss Bishop has done an outoi _ standing job and has built a solid
foundation upon which her duties as

Me President of the organization for
se eet year will undoubtedly revolve.
~ Besides being a member of this
_ Munro Day Committee,

< cae of the International Stu
_ dents’ Service campaign.

mera the ‘recent elections Louise

“topped the pole” in regaining her

seat on the Council for next year.
iy oe a student of English, Miss

PSTN UTD ASL LTT

We we that our Eternal Freshman has become “cityfied”. Can it
be that after all these years the Hall
a ens are at last being particular?
* *

The news is cold now, we know,
_ but there was a transfer of frater_ nity hardware, and June is now the
paaenre Mrs. Malcolm Honor Award.

a

*

%*

This Webby and Marg. stuff looks

_ serious—what has this Vancouver

~ gal got anyway? The Termites give

; jt as long as the Lawton crush at

| My east. It’ll save you money on that/|:
UU. S.A. trip, Wubber.

Pa

*

ae me *

n vel Ruth MacQ., we hear, was carried
i not a LITTLE in the storm
Saturday night. Wasn’t it awful?

jut still our Hughie goes Blighthly

* *

Has Marge got the gym store
h | oh tters? What has Oxford St. got
that Plum hasn’t? And has Kinley
vot his Margies mixed?
»

Pa

* *

And ‘Hennigar is picking them
er and younger.

* * *

gave out that he was

i ine call of the Khaki-Klads
ies great. for shia and he was

» reason?

j}don’t understand it.

_ Students’ Council and also a mem- needless to say, “who better than
As | Louise to guide we destiny of the

ie _ secretary-treasurer of Delta Gam-| uneducated reer

     

TERMITE ALLEY

or Crawl back into the woodwork

fi. - ‘ ; ’ /
x F ie aoe ee fad , ‘
, a = nn * . + ’ ‘i id ; . ifs : >
ji ee ep Hh oh 7 uae bam ba . : : 1- * i
i fas + eg iy ee er bd i ’ eh, el re ; ‘ ‘
7 Remit ute ee sem : ; aa 4 , = fats A) **4 .
' se Ase ree ar ' af . e bod
eh ait : ; Se , Sk Sak A teh Sampaee” : :
re he, s rl . rs
+ y eee iS) Date Le : aims . ; ei. 7%
: ie i . :
eee » + c Be : rs ‘ £ pints be i , y
. Soe ney Es : . - -_
- . i” s . . I - “
7 5 : " . d . ¥r a
r ae ral h Z j
Z . i i }
. ’ ‘ a ; ; .¥ %
J : | i4 , j

 

 

 

I DON’T MIND TELLING YOU!

 

Episode Niné: Behind the Velvet |from behind the velvet curtains (see | |

title) of the -D.G.&.D. Club stage.
However, even the soft downiness
(yes you were right, they haven’t
been pulled back yet. Will this show
ever start?) of those velvet curtains
could not dim the blood-curdling
scream that issued as from a thous
Curtains or He Who Laughs, Lasts.

It all happened at the Munro Day
show. What happened? How should
I know—I only write this stuff, I
Well, Bunny
Rabbit crept out of his little nest

(the west and you) wildly waving and throats. “I can’t get this step
his make-up brushes on high.|right. Won’t anybody help me?”

“Gather ’round my fair ladies — 1|«poor little Bunny at it again. Has
mean boys — of the chorus, I have he no brains at all in his feet?”
a secret.” “Who cares?” coved Rufus sobbed while trying to elude
Tank Forthelifeofmeicantthinkofa- | the clutching grasp of the Dalhousie
lastnameforhim. “What is it?” “I Institute of Public Opinfon (hereinwont tell! I wont tell!” screamed | after to be spoken of as D,I.P.O.)
the Rabbit. “One two three, bump, | ‘editor who was repeating lovingly
one two three, bump, turn and curt-|in his ear, “How many camels can
sey—lI’ve got to learn this routine, |you get on the point of a needle?”
I go on in two minutes.” “And “] dont know, I only took English
where do you think you are going,|Too when I went to college,” gaspmy little one?” asked Col. J. Eggle-/ed Rufus, purple in the face, “If
spie Oatcake (the J. stands for they only don’t get Joan GloomyVyvyan) waltzing in to the tune of trees.” Pouncing like a cat on a
the immortal Spring Song, but not ' new question, D.I.P.0. queried hopein time. ‘fully “Who are THEY? Rufus’

Meanwhile Rufus Rayne—is that | voice sank to a roar “Wubber McT.
rat in here again?—was. wandering ; jand Hateful C. are both good guys,
around and around the gym asking Haste does the fiend keep picking on
ee and sundry or maybe occasionally | my Joanie? Until I know whether

uesdry, “Have you brought your/she lives or not, I can’t go home and
ee Council Ticket? Youcan’t/[’m SO tired.” “Who's going
tell the victims from the villians! where?” whispers Col. J. (Vyvyan)
without a council ticket. Poor fifteen | Egglespie Oatcake, a little tired of
of filth coming in, poor little inno-|the same old speech, “I want to go
cent babes, how will they face the. too. Where?”
future—ahead? Who knows where | *
‘this will end when the murderer |
gets going tonight?” .

“Who’s going where?” bellows,
Col. J. (Vyvyan) Egglespie. Oateake |

 

a 4

Where is this column going to?
Who knows?

WHO KNOWS
?

THE FIFTH
DIMENSION

Question:
Do you like Crew-Cuts?
A year from now Louise hopes to| Ann Goodeve, Arts ’44:
become a Bachelor of Arts. A} “] think they are very useful—or
noble profession will claim her and, do I mean economical ?”
‘} Bop Murphy, Science ’44:
“After looking around J think
they look like hell.”
‘Kay Robinson, Arts ’42:

 

_ Bishop is a member of Midlothian
and also a literary contributor to
the Gazette. In the Musical Festival
last year Louise won the Mezzo
Soprano Solo cup.

 

Blondes, “They feel all nice and furry.”
Brunettes, |Ralph O’Brien, Science °43:
Redheads, | “They smell.”

Raven heads, ; Barbara-Schwartz, Science °42:
Flaxens, | “T think they are horrible. The
Titians, only thing complimentary to the
Auburns, | boys is that they cannot be conNut browns, ceited about their looks or they
Peroxides, | would never get them. The boys
Hennas look as though they have just
Gentlemen prefer— escaped from a_ concentration
WOMEN! camp.”

—Judge

CANADIAN
CAMPUS

By MICHEAL O’MARA
Staff Writer, The Varsity
VULVUDAHDA AAA NUMA eset tadindiaddit

The bride wore a rose tweed suit,
very pretty, and the groom wore a
tweed jacket, grey trousers and a
crew cut.

Another way in which campus
newspapers whiled away the idle
hours when the flow of vital copy
had dwindled to a mere trickle of
advance notices on fraternity dances
was in producing Special Issues, dedicated to one or another of the

* a %

Well Joan, Korky’s in Toronto, and
so is Marny. Hmmmm, the Eternal
Triangle rears its ugly head. The
odds are even as far as we’re concerned, .

failing source of interest, the co-eds,
McGill’s Daily appeared in a grim
shade of pink; Mount A’s Argosy |

was blood red; other papers which

x * a

We wonder if Ignatz Schmidt attributes her success in life to her
“naturally shy and retiring disposition” (re the last Glum Club Show).

also flashed forth from the press in
shades too nauseous to mention.
The Sheaf indulged in a mammoth anniversity issue; the Daily
and the Ubyssey ran Plumbers’ Is
sue. Special issues all over the lot.
x * *

BACK WITH A VENGEANCE

“When I wa§ a little child,” the
sergeant-major sweetly addressed
his men at the end of an exhaustive
hour of drill, “I had a set of wooden
soldiers.”

“There was a poor boy in the
neighborhood, and after I had been
to Sunday School one day listening
to a stirring talk on the duties of
charity, I was soft enough to give
them to him. Then I wanted them
back and cried, but my mother said:

“Don’t ery, Sonny, some day you
will get your wooden soldiers back.’

“And believe me, you lop-sided,
mutton-headed, goofus-brained set
of certified rolling-pins, that day
has come!”

But in the field of special issues,
we feel little fear of contradiction
when we climb out on our favourite
limb to predict that our favourite
paper, The Varsity (at this point we
rise, and doff our cap) will turn out
a Special Issue to end all Special
Issues. For this year is the sixticth
year of publication for Toronto’s
Undergraduate Newspaper. And the
staff is busily preparing a 48-page
Diamond Jubilee Issue replete with
histories of the university, The

they can think of.

—Gateway.

 

 

POST MORTEMS

The Meds will be surprised to
know that, despite the silencing of
their own scribe for this week, the
so-called “weaker” sex have come
through with even bigger and better scoops.

During the past week the Medicos, on the whole, were a very wellbehaved group, or maybe we are too
inexperienced to look for news in
the proper pater

*

 

cod

Bethune should have been worried

Friday night when Helen appeared
(with Don, or perhaps he knew that

college’s faculties, or to the never- .

4
|

should have known better succumb- |
ed to one-issue apron-string rule and | Logik:

Up in a closely sequestered sem-j| newspaper field.
inar in the University Library they us that we should hurry away from
have been toiling through dusty this nasty old typewriter and join
, archives for months, working on the|them ..

Tuesday would make everything all
right. Did it, Gordie?
“ * %

Speaking of Tuesday, what made
it such a “Happy Munro Day” for
certain students? If you don’t
know we “Can’t” very “well” tell
you, but Norma might know.

ihe ye

The “Bashful” boys of the 2nd
year class came out of their shells
on Tuesday and surprised everyone.
Simms is becoming quite a playboy
—tsk!! tsk! What would Dr. Smith
say? Munro Day also unearthed
the newest of the budding romances
begun in the Path. building this
year, that of Ken and Marjie, while
Clary’s allegiance to the Hall seems
to have wavered more in favor of
Sackville and Sydney Mines.

me ot ~

Our “Casanova” Graham was
quite conspicuous by his absence on
Munro Day. Too much competition,
eh, Don? And where was Charlie
Roberts? Can’t anybody get any
dirt on that guy? It just isn’t possible that he’s living the life of a
hermit—or is it?

a

Rollie and the Missus were cuttin’
fine capers on Tuesday. Wouldn’t
he rather be home—“studying” ?

woman

shes an angel in truth a demon in
fiction

& womans the greatest of all contradictions

shes afraid of a cockroach
scream at a mouse

but shell tackle a husband as big
as a house

shell take him for better shell take
him for worse

shell split his head open then be
his nurse

and when he is well and can get
out of bed

shell pick up a tea pot and throw
at his head

shes faithful deceitful keen-sighted
and blind

shes crafty shes simple shes cruel
shes kind

shell lift a man up shell throw a
man down

shell make him her hero shell make
him her clown

you fancy shes this but you find
she is that

for shell play like a kitten and bite
like a cat

in the morning she will in the evening she wont

and youre always expecting she does
but she dont

shell

What is a double petunia?

Well, a petunia is a flower like a
begonia.

A begonia is like a meat like a
sausage,

A sausage and battery is a crime.

Monkeys crime trees.

Trees is a crowd.

A roaster crowd in the morning
and made a noise.

A noise is on your face like your
eyes.

The eyes is the opposite of the
nayes, i

A horse nays and has a colt.

You get a colt and go to bed, and
wake up the next morning with
double petunia.

—Manitaban.

Varsity and everything else that|largest publication ever attempted

by Toronto undergraduates in the
In fact, it strikes

. Tight now.

  
       
   
           
         

    

FAMOUS FOR TASTE
AND MILDNESS

  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
      
   
    
 
    
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
    
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
       
        
 
   
         
     
 
      
 
      
       
   

} attra etn

CY GA RET TBS

ey

 

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED

DRUGGISTS
Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

CASINO

“DR. KILDARE’S
CRISIS”

LOU AYRES
LIONEL BARRYMORE
LORRAINE DAY
ROBERT YOUNG

ORPHEUS

Friday and Saturday
“TRAIL of the VIGILANTES”
“GIVE US WINGS”
DEAD END KIDS

Monday and Tuesday

“JEANNIE”
and “UP IN THE AIR”

Wednesday and Thursday
“RIDIN’ ON A RAINBOW”
Gene Autry

“THAT OLD GANG OF MINE”
Dead End Kids

@
EXTRA!

LAUREL AND HARDY
in “NIGHT PATROL”

 

OXFORD

Today and Saturday
“SO YOU WON’T TALK”
Joe E. Brown
and “QUEEN of the YUKON”
Monday and Tuesday
“TUGBOAT ANNIE
SAILS AGAIN”
“HUMAN MONSTER”
Boris Karloff
Wednesday and Thursday
“TILL WE MEET AGAIN”
Merle Oberou - George Bent
“NOBODY’S CHILDREN”

GARRICK

Friday and Saturday
“SECOND CHORUS”
Fred Astaire { Pauline Goddard
“VM STILL ALIVE”

Monday and Tuesday

“LADY WITH RED HAIR”
and “DIAMOND FRONTIER”

Wednesday and Thursday
“CHAD HANNA”
Henry Fonda - Dorothy Lamour
and “REMEDY FOR RICHES”

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

CAPIT O-&

THEATRE - HALIFAX

FRIDAY - SAT. — MON.

and s ?
“Virgina”

MADELINE CARROLL

FRED MacMURRAY
STERLING HAYDEN

*

TUES. - WED.

So Ends Our Night

MARGARET SULLIVAN
FREDERICK MARCH
FRANCIS DEE
GLENN FORD

~ THURS.

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses
in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience

Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President

 

mre together —
smart women and
Brylcreemed men...

Make no mistake, love is mor blind.

Whether it’s a matter of a dinner date

Or a “‘heavy”’ date.

Women always want their men to

‘Look like a million”.

And men who realize this

Are those who consider

Their morning Brylcreem

As essentia! as a shave.

BRYLCREEM .

Keeps hair naturally groomed
‘Round the clock’.

Restores sheen to dry, lifeless hair,

‘Checks dandruff.

Fights off baldness.

It’s the Empire’s top-ranking

Hair dressing.

Over 18,000,000 tubes and jars

Bought yearly.

So it must be good!

Costs as Jittle as 25c.

For extra economy get

The big 50c tube or jar.

Money-back guarantee.

Lite a

THE®PERFECT-HAIR® DRESSING 7 feo oe

Eee! without isaee, eae

 

D

    
 

i” oe yee
- re Gur:
Bere ei

ga cs ?
 
   
  

| i rl

 
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
    
 
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
 

> ite
a

e

ro Day brings Forrest up to

~

 

t they are doing. They cershowed themselves in great
_ trim this year, and had a good turn
out for all their games. They started right off with the softball, with
y showing themselves as equal
x 2-2. However, after a conre ble time we again saw the two
in Tug-of-War and here Forrest
_ showed their skill by drawing Stud} with fairly steady progress right
o their territory. Later when
-¢ame up against Studley in
Basketball they defeated them with
a score of 16-9. But nevertheless
Studley showed willingness, and a
lot of good work.
In all the games those who partook enjoyed themselves and did
_ their best. The spirit shown in the
- Munro Day games is encouraging,
and it would be nice if we could see
even a larger number of spectators.
_ There is always another year and
__-we are satisfied with this year too.

a PING PONG

Fe What a pleasant surprise it was
to find that the girls actually un__ dertook to play ping pong on Munro
Day. Let’s have more of this. Ann
_. Goodeve and Desiree Keating showed very good playing when they
' paired off with Dave Doig and
| Forbes Mountain respectively on
'_ Munro Day. The score came to a
draw, 19-19, which seems to show

| that both sides were pretty good. It
'_ legked like a good game from the
__-—«-Spectators bench anyway.

_-_-~- «-‘The champs showed their expert
Belt playing when they exhibited their

final game to see who was actually
‘the best. In case you don’t know
who they are; Henry Reardon and
Colin Smith are the players. The
first game showed in favor of
Reardon with the score ending 2725 and then the next one was taken
by Smith with a greater margin,
21-16. But the final game, alas
Munro Day spectators do not get
such a privilege as to find out, for
the two champs finished it down
_ below. However, the winner may
now be disclosed; Three cheers for
Colin Smith.

BADMINTON

id Despite the very short time that
_ Was allowed to badminton on Munro
Day, it was done very nicely. The
_ ‘Mixed doubles with our stars,
_..-Marion Moore and Forbes Mountain
opposing Anne Goodeve and Del
_ Gibson, ended in a draw 12-12.
There was some very good play and
_ they relieved the minds of those who
_ @ould not decide who was going to
s win, by bringing it to a tie: very
considerate, don’t you think?
ae Then Del Gibson and Ray Murphy
began with a very stiff game of
Singles, but being pressed for time,
they were forced to stop after playing only a few points of the second
game.

 

 

BASKETBALL

it Munro Day wound up the girls’
basketball activities for the season
: when the Freshettes accepted the
_  @hallenge of an upperclass team.
} The upperclass team though handihe capped by lack of a player defeated
the Freshettes by four points (score
10-6) in eight minutes of play. The
F- Freshettes did very well indeed although they have not had the opportunity to play together as a team
before. This has largely been due
to the fact that it has been impossible to run off an interclass league.

Freshette team:

Jerry Hart, Anita Rosenbloom,
Xenia Reid, Brooks McNeil, Eleanor
A MacPherson, Norrie Douglas.
ie Upperclass team:
= Joan Blackwood, Reta Harrison,
Mary MacKeigan, Kay Hicks, Barbara Schwartz.
= Although there have been no in
____terclass games the varsity team had
_ Several matches with city teams.
_ They have been hostesses to the
Academy and Y. W. squads.

‘The basketball practice periods
were early Thursday evening and on

   
   
 
  
   

_ tion. Mrs. Sykes certainly served

yb , a i ‘Ae % A

on all

f Mm ere “FP f it a

i Te a “. Bree
et, = ay ae 7, 7 y

i
: .

T CREW

 

s and we get a chance to}

SSS. Se tsetse

5 _ Fridays at 6.30. This was an awk-|

“y AT ae a wit} - ene * a i Ae a — s a
Bie ON ss ea Ni tall)
ih a4 eu . dats ta

 

|
IN THE |

KITTEN’S CORNER

by MARGE

  

We talk of sports and we think immediately of the male
species. It may cause female hearts to flutter with the thought
of a football hero, but the sporting world is for the female band
as well, and we at Dalhousie want it to remain so.

)

To look at, the Gazette through the year it seems that the
sport’s page is devoted to the boys’ work alone, but why? Because perhaps they have more sports, but ours are entered just
as enthusiastically, what we have.

From sports we can get closer contact with the girls we
know only a little, learn good sportsmanship and find interest
and achievement in a good energetic game or drill. Spirit and
loyalty grow up in team games and also in individual games.

We start our year energetically with ground-hockey, and
those who have heayd of the game, and some who have not,
turned out for a few miles of dashing across the field each week
in the beautiful autumn days, and although tennis was not so
active this year, because of the war, we had several good games.
Then the game of games at Dalhousie this year took over. We
started early with badminton. We can bestow our bouquets
upon Professor Mercer for the energetic way he stood badminton well on its feet at the very beginning of the year when
we saw no future at all in tennis and the other autumn games.
Badminton was interesting to. many we soon found out, and
the girls and boys alike showed their willingness to try and
to succeed. Consequently we managed to get several players,
and have played games against the Church Leagues every week
when it has been at all possible.

Quite often when you drop around at the gym you will see
a few, most often girls, batting the bird energetically back and
forth, and our great helper, Phyl Wray Barrett, is seen coaching and playing the girls a stiff game. Just ask any girl
interested in sports and she’ll say, “Sure I play badminton, |
who doesn’t?” | |

And now, to top off everything the team has started |

travelling. Their first trip was to Truro, and sufficient to fill! there are also coming up in the near | start something really worthwhile in |
a more than a complete team, headed north, and we hope that ee tomorrow, if you can arrange | girls’ activities.

there will be more trips. Dal won! Could it be we have some-_|
thing worthwhile? So here’s hoping that next year felt D’s
will be awarded to this steadily growing game!

man’s game I don’t know, hear with envy the echo of the ping
pong ball resound from the boys’ locker-room, still we have our |

Sern tenons too, and there is chance for any girls who wish
play.

And what’s this secret about basketball? We surely must
have some good players in this field. We have heard rumours,
and it’s pretty safe to say that each Friday night at supper
time it’s the girl basketball players who assemble at the
Murray Homestead for a very delicious supper. Then on
Thursday nights they play too, but still we do not see enough
of them. They know they’re there though, and that is what
counts after all.

_ Last but not least we shall mention the Folk-dancing class
which has been held Tuesday evenings during the winter, and
the Saturday morning gym class. Both these classes have been
kept. up throughout the year and those who do attend are enthusiastic, and are never disappointed although they have to |
trudge home and drop the minute they enter the house. |

It is too bad we did not see all the talent issue forth from
the Folk-dancing as it did last Munro Day. Remember the
beautiful dancing last year? Perhaps we can make excuses
because of “war-time” but we’ll look forward to a good Munro
Day act next year!

In the field of girls’ sports we can now visualize promise
and achievement in coming years. This year is practically over
but: if we persevere and aim toward better things the war
difficulties won’t daunt us next year.

 

 

D. A. A. C. MEETING Thought For The Week.
’t give a—tfoo. |

The annual meeting of the D.A.|A friend is not a feller

A. C. was held in the Chem theatre,} Who is taken in by sham;

March 13th, with President Hutch-|A friend is one who knows

ins in the chair. Mr. Hutchins open-| Our faults and doesn

ed the meeting by stating that the : :
students are not taking enough in- See erat olegion.
terest in the affairs of the D.A.A.C.
He further declared that the students themselves have the power to
make amendments and changes in
the constitution and that perhaps
they did not realize their position.
Nominations were received for honorary president of the D.A.A.C. for
next year and Dr, Bell was elected.

The next item of business was the
proposed amendment in regard to
awarding certain badminton players
major “D’s” and minor felt “D’s to
six other players who in the opinion
of the manager and the coach was
worthy of recognition. This amendment was passed by a large majority.

The Vice-President, Bob Blois,
next read a report of interfaculty
sport, which was duly approved.
It was recommended on the suggestion of Bain Munro that in future
the Interfaculty manager approach
the faculty managers with a view to
getting the various societies to-take
more responsibility in interfaculty
Sport than they have done in the
past.

On motion the meeting adjourned.

 

 

Hatin’ while datin’
- Is worse’n
Kissin’ ‘n’ missin’,
—Boston U. News.

 

tot ev

 
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CAPTURE MUNRO DAY SHIELD

 

Just to Let You Know

 

Are you interested in badminton?
Were you interested in badminton?
There is still a chance to play and
also a good opportunity to relax

from the depths of study which will
start now that Munro Day is over.
But how about Saturday afternoons,
Students, from 5.30 on, until they
tell you it’s time to leave? After
all there’s plenty of time for that
important date later on in the evening, and we can get a chance for a
little more perfection before the
game is over for the year, so bring
yourself, a twosome or a foursome
and try to get some games on Saturday from 5.80 on!

The badminton team is still going
strong, except when such minor details, to us the badminton players,
as Glee Club etc., take the time we
need. Does that daunt us? Never!
We try harder the next week and
get more games. This is seen by
plans approaching. Due to Glee Club
and Sadie Hawkins nights there was
nary a game last week, but this
week there’s to be one Thursday
night for the girls, Friday night if
Truro can make the trip here, and
Saturday at Wolfville if all goes as
it should and will with cooperation.
This looks pretty promising, and we
are waiting to see more in the near
future.

Even with this, the team and all,

it, the individual games. We like
this idea, but then it’s hard to get

hold of your partner, and your op-| enter your score.

Perhaps we girls who are fond of ping-pong, why it’s a ponents, but try, and try hard for/and get these things going. It’s fun
we want these to get a good ee)

so we can see who are the winners

Don’t just |
fall back on the idea that you can |

before the year is over.

be eliminated, because that isn’t the |
plan at all, and maybe if you had|
stayed in you could have won or |
got further than you thought. Chal- |
lenge your opponent any time, any
place, if it’s within the boundaries
of the Dalhousie gym, and then

 

}

 

 

March 14, 1941

 

FOLK-DANCING INTERESTED?

s Such an entertaining and interest
Sam pear: Ps Jet ete nae ot ‘ing game should have more enthusput on a display of athletics andj... among the girl students at
dancing in the Dal gym. According-/Dal. There is often a stray few
ly at the beginning of this term| minutes that you could drop down
plans were made and Mrs. Barrett | 22d see what is going on, and perhaps pick up a ball and go to it.
We shoudin’t have to admit that
the boys get more out of ping-pong
than we do, because ping-pong
seems to me to be a very good game

started classes in gymnastics, apparatus, and folk-dancing. The plan
was to have the freshettes learn

their dances during the regular gym
for girls. So how about making a

periods and special times were ar- oe ies
ranged for the upper-classmen. This |7°¥ ©H#nges in the ladder that’s up
for ping-pong.

upper-class folk-dancing was the|
first class of this sort to be held for |

Dal girls. Although the turnout |
was not large the group was very |
enthusiastic and a number of inter- |
esting dances was learned. There
was a committee chosen to look’
after costumes.

The plans for the show proceeded
quite well until about a month ago |
when, due to poor attendance, mainly caused by illness, it became apparent that the show could not
possibly take place at the time)
formerly agreed upon. Last week at
| a D.G.A.C. meeting it was finally
| decided that at this late date, due to |
|lack of time, the whole thing would |
have to be called off.

We are sorry to see this project |
‘not go through as planned papas
it certainly was a good idea. Folk- |
dancing is lots of fun and could become quite popular at Dal. How
 

 

 

 

enter,

HERE ARE SOME OF THE |
MOST POPULAR NEW
DANCE NUMBERS
Duke Ellington’s Orchestra:
rer Valley
Flaming Sword

 

 

 

 

Chloe
Across the Track Blues
Tommy Dorsey’s Orchestra:
Star Dust
Do You Know Why
Isn’t That Just Like Love

Swanee River
Artie Shaw’s Orchestra:

 

 

| ever, although nothing more can be oe Dust
|done this term, we strongly urge Temptation
|that next year the girls get work-| J Frenesi

ling on this demonstration idea, and | (Adis, Mariquita Linda

Leo Reisman’s Orchestra:
| { The Last Time I Saw Paris
| | What Makes a Song
Fresh as a Daisy

Hee Be Buddies

Wayne King’s Orchestra:
eee Walk By
Goodnight Mother

Serenade
Come in and Hear Them

Evening Star
|

456-460 BARRINGTON STREET |

}

Come one and all |

 

if you take the step. And good
luck to those who win. There’s
plenty of chance because there are
ladies’ and men’s singles and
doubles, and a mixed game as well.

Lastly and least active is the badminton ladder that is still feebly
hanging on. We haven’t seen much
activity on this line, so how about
one last drive, and see how far you
can get?

 

  

a :

 

 

 

How To Make The Most of Your Appearance —

in O

WEAR CLOTHES TAILORED-TO-MEASURE
BY TIP TOP TAILORS!

rtont SDP SO ro recur

Ladies’ Mannish-Cailored Suits and Coats, Cailored-to-Measure,

TIP TOP TAILORS

422 BARRINGTON STREET

 

ne Easy Lesson!

28.75

LIMITED

FuUs-2-41

 

yt

+ Li . > 5 xi
ty Lipari bsesng aL eh nm te ear i —s

 
