 
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
    
  
  
   
 
     
 

VOL, LXXIIT

 

en’s » handling
e st ory, says that they were
ig ‘women who were requestave. In that case, perhaps
essor did the right thing.
sll he didn't, ine. wants

is this year’s Delta Gamma
i | Shield competition.

The studentbody will be present
in the gymnasium at 8.15 this evening to see the first in a series of
one-act plays in competition for the
Connolly Shield. Delta Gamma
players under the direction of J. L.
Robertson carried off honors last
year and will attempt to do likewise tonight.

The east consists of:

Yvonne Mounsey—Madelaine

Penny Patchell—Giovanna

Joan Archibald—Theresa

Kay Martin—Nita

Kay Finnemore—Francesca

Eleanor Macpherson—Angela.
Costume management is in the
hands of Penny Patchell and Anne
Seaborne.

Following the presentation of
“Petticoats Preferred”, there will be
a novelty show by the Glee Club.
Dancing, instrumental music and
other forms of entertainment are on
the programme.

Dot Graham, the nimble footed
talented sophomore, will give us a
couple of snappy dance numbers.
Don Warner, whom you remember
as one of the freshman “string
trio”, will introduce his young dance
band made up of several Dal students, plus other musicians, and offering the latest in modern swing.
Harry Smith, who needs no introduction, will present a financial report as a monologue. Adelaide
Fleming, who also added to her successes in the “Spring Dance”, will
sing for us, as will Louise Bishop,

zt in ee oe versatility in a
Pera ee nt issue. On page two appeared

faye a scholarly editorial on the Arts,
a Vv

Bethover ‘and Idealism” —and diMa Re rectly - opposite, on page three, a
ne ) screams “Lunatic Lobby”;
ther : orders “Say 99”, a third
urs “40 Beers”—and way down

x headline

ri “Back to McMaster, the editor
ni of the Silhouette, badly stuck for

eat (cba ig! little filler, sat down and wrote
eagt m8 the following gem: “Silhouettes
ag _ are sent by the Exchange Departie all over the country, and
over an ocean, even. They go as
fi far as Africa. It is said that
fi "4 many dark members of the Uganda tribe cannot pursue their ordinary hunting and fishing if by
some mischange the mails are delayed. At such a time the disap_ pointed tribesmen wade a little
into the South Atlantic and wail
-restrainedly in the general direction of North America.” Which
4 proves that filling a paper each
ss week must be quite a mental

_ The Universities of Mount Allison
and McMaster have been brooding
Ril) a deal lately over the eligibilSai iy et certain undergraduates to
(Continued on Page Three)

arr ©}

_ Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

 

CAN YOU NAME STUDENT OFFICERS?

Last Spring Dalhousie students went to the polls to elect a Students’
Council. This year they were asked to name some members of it. Most
hi di fared pretty well with the President, 78% having some idea that it is
eek George Corston, the other 22% being blissfully in the dark. Vice-Presi. dent Webster Macdonald didn’t fare so well, being named by but 30% of
Re: fa those asked. Votes were given for Ruth MacQuarrie and Shirley Kirk> patrick. It was also a shock to learn that only 26%, or about a quarter
of Dalhousie students (if our poll is truly representative) know that
Murray Rankin is the Secretary-Treasurer. It must be admitted that a
number were fooled by trying to think over the names of students, but
iil isn’t a good excuse. On the whole, the conclusion must be drawn,
“ aly but surely, that most Dal students are unconscious.

 

  
  
   
  
   

mt eth

a
f alg a
he.

 

ATTEND GLEE CLUB FOR SHOW OR DANCE?

ae sail 66% of students quizzed report regular attendance at Glee Club
Te Another 87% don’t go, while 8% go sometimes. The conclusion
ie to ‘be drawn is that Glee Club performances all attract about the same
people. Of those who go sometimes, 49% go for the show, 12% for the
dance, 35% for the two in about equal proportions; 4% said that is depends on what sort of a show it is. At Forrest only 37% go for the
show, 17% for the dance, and 42% for both. At Studley, on the other

ne 6 %e go for ‘Sen show, only 5% for the dance, and 25% for both.

 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

  

 

  

ws Be. ‘You ATTEND CLASS MEETINGS?

ne ing, however, when the igens are broken sein
a At the Forrest building, where the classes meet together,
‘e are ordinarily held at the end of a lecture, when practically
. around. Accordingly 94% attend there, while 6% do not.
Ean where it takes an effort to get to a class meeting,

 
  
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   

1 , while 9% attend once in a while, One person
it War rP, Peeloane complained that his class hadn’t come

 

TAY

t e > Forrest sane whether members of
ig raed be eet from military
wh: 2 other 5 mee they were
ts | d be exempted,

~lobate

  
  
 

  

  
  
   

g to discover chat 73% of Dal students attend the

contribution in the Connolly

Dancing to the music of Don Lowe
after the Novelty Show.

 

BRUNSWICKIAN
IN HANDS OF

WOMAN EDITOR

The S, R. C. meeting last Friday,
elected Mary T. McMenamon editorin-chief of The Brunswickan. Thus
the Brunswickan is to be placed in
the hands of a woman for the first
time in its history. The new Editor-in-chief has been connected with
the college paper for the last three
years, and during the first term of
the present college year worked as
Co-editor with Manze Bunker. In
another staff change Colin Mackay
was appointed to the position of
Associate Editor.

 

 

whose melodious voice you have all
heard before.

Dancing will continue to Don Lowe’s
music after the show.

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 14, 1941

DAL WINS FROM ARMY HOOPSTERS, 23-20

DELTA GAMMA ONE-ACTER,

DR. H. S. LEIPER

END OF MARCH

 

Arrangements have been made by

Pine Hill Divinity Hall to bring Dr.
Henry Smith Leiper of New York
to Halifax for some special lectures
about the end of March.

Dr. Leiper is the American Secretary of the World Council of
Churches of which the Archbishop
of York is the chairman.
an outstanding part in the promotion of the Eccumenical Conference
at Oxford two years ago, and is
recognized as one of the best informed men on this side of the Atlantic regarding the religious situation in Europe.

The plans for his visit include,
in addition to his lectures and conferences with the students, appointments to preach in St. Paul’s Church
on Sunday morning, March 30th, to
speak over the local radio station in
connection with the Pine Hill Pulpit
at one o’clock, and te preach in St.
John’s Church in the evening.

 

 

He played |

 

No. 15

 

Tigers Win Thrilling Duel In Last Twelve
NOVELTY SHOW, TONIGHT WILL VISIT CITY (Seconds Of City League Basketball Game

“Petticoats Preferred” under the direction of J. L. Robertson

Wilson and Martin aks Qn Dalhousie Team

Sadie Hawkins

a

In one of the most thrilling games
seen this year, the Dalhousie Tigers
}edged out the Army hoopsters, 23-20

 

To Come Soon| in a seheduled game of the City

At a Delta Gamma meeting last |
decided to |
hold the Sadie Hawkins’ Dance on |

Saturday it was definitely

Thursday, March 6. Betty Bligh,

dance and
Smith will assist with tickets,
veruaine and novelties.

 

STUDENT SERVICE

A worship service commemorating the World Student Day of
Prayer will be held in King’s
College Chapel on Sunday, Feb.
16th, at 4 p.m. The’ service is

to be conducted by members of
the Student Christian Movement
and an offering will be taken to
aid the World Student Christian
Federation.
to attend .

Everyone is invited

 

HONOUR AWARD TO BE REVEALED SOON

For those of you who do not
know the true and important significance of the award made annual
 

suitably engraved gold key, accompanied by a parchment, is presented
|as a part of the Munro Day exer
ly and paying the highest possible | cises.

tribute to a Dalhousian, it is a privilege to have space here to speak
about Jimmy Malcolm.

The Maleolm Honour Society is
the outcome of a growing sentiment
for the establishment at Dalhousie
of an order of merit to receive into
its membership those of our graduating classes who show themselves
worthy to receive the award of their
unselfish deyotion of time and talent
to the service of their fellow students. Every student in the year
of graduation is considered for the
award, and any number may be
chosen by the Committee of Selection, but the the high standard demanded makes the group a small
one. The insignia of the society, a

PRAISE FROM G. B. SHAW There will

The name of the Dalhousie student who, above all others, personified the ideal which forms the cornerstone of the Malcolm Honour
Society is James (“Jimmy’’) Malcolm. Jimmy was five years at Dalhousie, graduating in Arts in 1903.
In the following year he returned
for Theology and lost his life in an
effort to rescue his swimming companion., 
Every action of Jimmy Malcolm
breathed the spirit with which he
made his sacrifice. Loyalty to his
college and forever cheerful and devoted to his friends, his energy and
talent were given to the cause he
had in hand. Since the year 1927
Dalhousie has endeavoured to pay

 

 

Laurence Wilson, son of Dr. R.
A. Wilson, former Dean of the
English Department of the University of Saskatchewan, who is
now on a holiday in Vancouver,
informed “The Sheaff” that his
father is now conducting negotiations for a new edition of his
book, “The Birth of Language”.

Some of the ‘contents of the
book became familiar to professors
and students at Saskatchewan University as parts of it were delivered
in lectures. Professor Wilson sent
George Bernard Shaw an _ auto_| graphed copy following publication.

Mr. Shaw explains the delay in
his letter, written ‘at’ 4, Whitehall
Court, London, 8.W. 1, on Oct. 21,
1940, and here it is:

“Dear Professor Wilson:

“I have just most fortunately discovered ‘The Birth of Language’,
with a gratifying inscription, in the
pile of books sent to me and too
often left unexplored.

“It is the best since Samuel Butler; but the title hardly does it
justice; for, though it is a necessary
prolegomena to a book on language,
it appeals so strongly to the interest in Evolution, and is so impor
,|tant in that direction, that the title

should attract the evolutionists and
the anti-Mechanists of all sorts as
it lies in the bookstalls as well as
the lexicographers. I have written
to Dent about it, suggesting a
cheaper edition with an alternative
title and a good blurb from myself
or anyone else you prefer, at a
popular price.

“Ever since, as a boy, I learnt
about crystalization, I have held
that matter is alive. But, as you
remark in a single sentence on
page 80, Science was shunted in a
dead-end-siding by its hurry to get
rid of William Blake’s Old Nododaddy.

“But that phase is over now; and
the tide is setting strongly against
the Mechanists and neo-Darwinists.
If Dent will push your book into the
swim it may catch that tide. I earnestly hope it may.

“In 1906 I delivered a lecture to
the Fabian Society on Darwin. It
lay where it fell until I revised it
and revived it as a preface to a
group of five plays under the general title of ‘Back to Methuselah’.
If you have not read it, may I send
you a copy?

Faithfully,
(Signed) G. Bernard Shaw.”

tribute to the student or students
possessing some of the fine qualities
of Jimmy Malcolm.

In choosing the member or members of the Malcolm Honour Society,
the Selection Committee try to
draw parallels to the character and
qualities of James Malcolm. No one
spoke words against him. By his
courteous and respectful bearing
and his attention to his work, he
had the respect of his professors,
as well as being a universal favorite on the campus. Outside the college, his influence was largely felt
among the young people in various
societies.

This year’s Selection Committee
includes: Dr. George Wilson, Dr.
Hugh Bell, Joan Blackwood, Webster Macdonald and “G. “Mike”
Smith.

NOTICE

be no skating party
next week. Efforts were made to
hire the Arena, but all evening
hours are engaged.

social convener, is in charge of the
Mary Boswell and Inez
ad
 

| Senior Basketball League, played at
‘the Dal gym on Thursday evening.
| Ben Wilson proved to be the hero of
| the game when he broke the deadlock with 12 seconds to go before the
final whistle of the game when he
dropped the ball neatly into the
basket on a penalty shot. Johnny

 

 

ous | Martin put the game in the bag a

isecond before the whistle went on a

| fluke shot.

The Army took the lead at the
popening whistle with Bauld, Hart
‘and Goudey getting counters for the
soldiers. However, the Tigers man
faged to overcome this early advan
tage of the Army to tie the score
up at the end of the first half at
9-9. A feature of the game was the

lappearance of Burnie Ralston in the

Dalhousie lineup. Burnie added
greatly to the Tigers scoring power
and kept the boys organized to
break up the fast Army breakaways.

The Dalhousie team took the lead
early in the second canto with lanky
Ben Wilson leading the attack. The
score was kept low with both teams
marking they men:closely, Near the
end of the half the lead changed
hands several times with the Army
tying. the score usually on penalty
shots. With the score tied at 20-20,
and only twelve minutees to go, excitement raised to a fever pitch.

'Ben Wilson got the winning point

when he was awarded a penalty shot
by referee Jim Arnott. Wilson made
no mistake on the shot. Johnny Martin followed up with one of the best
shots of the night, dropping the ball
neatly ito the basket from the sideline.

Wilson and Martin were the stars
on the Dalhousie team, while Crease
and Goudey gave the Tigers many
worried moments.

Lineups:

Dal: Seaman 2, MacKenzie 8,
Webber, MacRitchie, Wilson 6, Ralston 2, Martin 4, McLeod 4, Smith 2.

Army: Crease 6, Goudey 6, Hart 2,
Mitchell, Cann 1, Bauld 2, Piers 1,
MacKenzie, Carson 2, West.

 

LAST COLLEGE FORMAL
SET FOR THURSDAY, 20th

Junior Prom Next Thursday at the Lord Nelson Hotel

Promises to be Great Success.

Your last College Formal

of the Term.—Make it a Memorable One!!
Did you realize that the party |

season is almost over?
that you have until Munro Day
(March 14) to witness Glee Club
shows; but what is more pleasant
than the lasting memory of a successful “formal?” This is your
last oportunity to attend a university formal before Convocation
(May 15th).

The able committee in Charge of
Prom is made up of Inez Smith,
Halifax; “Yank’ Forsyth, Long Island, N.Y., Chris. Camerson, Boston,
Mass. They have made arrangements which will make this dance
the outstanding one of the season.
Tickets are $3.50 per couple. Dancing from 9 until 2.

;

Data on the Junior Prom and

It is true |Teasons why youd should be there:

1. This party will see a change
in scenery at the Lord Nelson Hotel.

2. It will be different in “at least”
one respect: the menu which has
been arranged assures good food,
a change from the same ol’ stuff.

3. Jerry Naugler and his Band
will be there to convince any new
comers that better dance bands are
difficult to find in the Dominion of
Canada.

4. Because the Seniors got one

free ticket worth $1.75, they con
stitute generally the majority of the
crowd. All undergraduates should
make an effort to support the Junior
Class financially as well as having a
grand time themselves.

ee

 

aN Fi i A
in America”

“column of teen Taw es the akbar, it cannot
bane S t the pd ny of the Student Body. :
d, S4 Argyle street, Halifax, N. S.

B-9746
B-3148

=
=

c R GRAHAM

Proof Editor: PENNY PATCHELL
s Manager: INEZ SMITH

t Business Manager: MARY JOHNSON

sey We i in America, as the wiiter inineton us last week, have
ey as yet hardly felt the pinch of war conditions, the student
gro ip least of all. We have not been bombed off our campuses,
been forced to travel thousands of miles on foot, as have our
__ fellows in China, to settle down again with only the bare ne_ essities for carrying on our existence, knowing not how
a goon or how often the whole performance will have to be remb - peated. None of our students are as yet held in enemy interna oo camps where a scrap of reading matter or a cake of soap
ae tically an unheard-of luxury.
* Such conditions, however, are very real in the war-torn
Bs fe: countries of the Orient and Europe. The International Student
ice, in conjunction with the European Student Relief Fund,
iis doing a great deal to aid students in these areas and, wherby ever possible, to help them carry on with their studies. There
Be ‘is the story of a Polish youth studying in America when his
- country was subjugated by the Reich. His visa being only
effective while he was actually a student, he could not work to
: 4 _ earn money for the rest of his course. Had he not been able
_ to apply to the I.S.S. he would have been shipped back to an
e _ internment camp in Poland.
The Red Cross and the Y.M.C.A. are doing excellent
_ service in looking after the material and religious needs of ine _ terned students. The I.S.S. is practically the only organization
Ba - which provides mental activity of any sort. It is difficult for
3 a us to visuallize conditions under which we might be so men, > tally starved that the most trivial scrap of reading matter
would be a veritable luxury. Let us co-operate to the utmost
with the Students’ Council in the forthcoming campaign for
funds for the International Student Service.

THE CASE AGAINST STREET RIOTS IN CANADA
A contributed editorial to this paper last week urged upon us what
they called a “healthy riot” by instituting street riots at Dalhousie.
There can’t be such a thing as a “healthy riot”. A riot arises, through
_Yeal or supposed dislocation in our political, economic or social branches
of society. We believe there is not a dislocation in Canada worthy of
even a minor riot. Canadians see no need to rush about and perhaps
- destroy property, the natural accompaniment of riots, and prefer to
_ adjust the difficulties that do arise through the regular channels which
we fortunately possess. We have a slinking suspicion that the writer
would like to wreck a house or shop. In that case why not join the
_ soldiery at New Glasgow? They certainly started a riot on the most
- pointless and foolish grounds possible.
The cases cited for examples of “good” rioting are certainly not
_ those to hold in the Canadian scene. India has the misfortune to have
a huge mass of people lead by classically educated “leaders” trying to
attain a standard of living and place in the world equal to the so-called
_ Western powers. This they wish to do without developing their educational facilities and industrial world to the same level as the afore‘mentioned powers. We do not propose to be lead into an argument on
the extremely complicated Indian question but the observation is to the
Be ‘iM point that the “leaders” might try to aid their followers by developing
, ‘i the science of their country without urging an impossible course of
political action and therefore causing the above-mentioned dislocations.
7 ig ~ The other examples are similar in that if we wish to endure the general
-. miseries sustained by those countries and subdue ourselves to them for
the mere reward of being able to riot it is not what we had considered
the Canadian way of life or what we believe to be the feeilng of Canadians
_ generally. As for the ability of college students to lead any sort of a
disruption here, it is impossible to conceive. We are not an intellectual
aristocracy, leading a poor benighted populace out of their slum-like
existance. There is a large body of citizenry that is just as advanced
and just as brilliant as the average college student and the result of a
riot on these people, our leaders in the state would probably result merely
in a fiasco.
Perhaps we are taking our writer too literally. Nevertheless
Canadians are undoubtedly not as active as some people would like them
_ to be. Thatis, of course, the opinion of those who think that they can
see through the country’s ills and have some sort of a panacea for them.
This is a common form of undergraduate enthusiasm for what are gen_ erally political impossibilities.
The point is that Canada finds herself in a much different position
than those countries which have the undoubtedly wonderful results of
- easualties and racial hatred incurred through street rioting. Here there
ois not an intellectual nobility set up “per se’ for the purpose of knowing
+ what is best for their poor ignorant fellow countrymen and attempting
' ‘to secure it. There is also lacking the suppression of the will of the
_ great bulk of the people as there is in any subjugated country and there_ fore there is no need for the Canadian college student to go through the
_ symbolic sacrifice of the concentration camp to show the feelings of the
- rest of his countrymen, although such an action would probably in many
_ eases have its ample unseen reward in the beauties of well-publicized
self-sacrifice. .
‘5 Be Undoubtedly we should be up and at ’em. We should tear the place
apart periodically just to show that we are free-thinking students. And
_ the common people will read in the papers where Dalhousie has had
another fracas. “Well, those damn fools in Halifax are making a fuss
5 again” will be the comment of the average farmer (we are an agricultural
‘a a _ country, you know) and then will turn to see what the d—— government
:. is doing about that pegged butter price. “And if they don’t soon start
By giving us the deal they’re giving those fellows at Debert I’ll know how to
_ vote next time”. The answer is obvious. We know our manners and
_ know how to utilize what facilities we have when necessary. When the
arises the Canadian people can awake yery quickly to the occasion.
on was perhaps the right term for the mental state of the
You can't rush spring even if you want to. We also know

or is

ae

ART AND MUSIC:

IN N. S. SCHOOLS

As outlined in the “Handbook to
the Course of Study” of the N. S.
Dept. of Education, art, handwork,
and music are given definite places
in the curriculum for N. S. schools.
Lhe educationists of this province
have realized the importance of
those cultural subjects and are making an effort to have their ideals
in this line of education become a
reality.

Let us first consider. handwork
and art. Education that is confined
to books alone is likely to stifle the
ambition and interest of all except
a very few. Handwork related to
other school subjects and expressing the individual interests and activities of the child is the best way
in which he can vitalize the content
of the other things taught him in
school. To quote Dr. Cyril Burt,
Psychologist to the London County
Council, ‘“ihe artistic capacity of the
average child rightly regarded and
properly trained proves to be much
above his scholastic capacity, and

Summer school provides facilities
by which teachers may learn, but it
does not provide the incentive to
teach. The teacher must be given
an opportunity, especially the rural
school teacher. This means that the
curriculum and the whole system of
country schools will have to be
changed if any progress is to be
made in the teaching of handeraft,
art and music. There will have to
be less time spent on academic
studies. Ample room, and adequate
facilities and equipment for artistic
work will have to be provided. In
short, more money will have to be
spent on education, and spent well.
There is no sense training a teacher
if she is not given a chance. The
subjects of art are very important
and should be neglected no longer.

id

THE EYE OF
THE INTELLECT

Pietures have universal appeal. It
matters little to the casual observer
whether they are the product of
clever photographers or of skilled
artists so long as the stories told

indeed far above what is commonly | 'or the harmonies of form and color

supposed or suspected . rey AS

in the arts and crafts that we find |
the best concrete medium for a
practical and liberal education. Art
and handcraft must not be considered as one subject by itself but as a
school activity that is correlated

and to the actual life of the child.

Music also should be an important
aspect in the school life of a child.
It enriches the feeling and affords
a new outlet for his emotions.

s |
‘shown

 

Where a lasting appreciation of

igood music is aroused in boys and
| girls it provides for the proper use

of leisure time, not only for the performers but also for those who
listen.

The Nova Scotia curriculum provide a fairly full and varied course
in handwork, art and music, but the
actual teaching has fallen far short
of the ideal. It is the rural school
that suffers most in this respect.
The country teacher in Nova Scotia
has, on the average, about forty
pupils ranging from pre-grade 1 to
grade 11. With these children she
has to cover the prescribed academic
work for each grade. This in itself
is a practically impossible task.
Thus, even if the teacher has the
training and ability to teach art,
handcraft, and music, she has no
time in which to teach them. The
rural school teacher is also handicapped by inadequate equipment and
facilities. The large proportion of
the schools in Nova Scotia have not
a piano, gramophone, or radio.

The city or town schools are not
so badly off as those in the country.
Specialists in music and drawing are
employed to teach the children in
the public schools from grades 1 to
9. The city school children get a
fairly sound training in drawing, in
singing and in the theory of music.
Also, for talented children there are
available scholarships to the Nova
Scotia Art School. Handwork in the
city schools take the form of
manual training for the boys and
domestic science for the girls.

There are two main faults in the
teaching of art, handeraft, and
music in the city schools. Firstly,
the appreciative side is left out almost entirely so that the artistic
qualities in the children are not
really developed. Secondly, these
arts and crafts are considered as
separate subjects in themselves and
are not in any degree correlated to
the other subjects taught.

In general, the teaching of the
arts in Nova Scotian schools is poor
and faulty. One step is being taken
to remedy this by giving the teachers better training. Both at the
normal school and at the universities the time spent on handwork and
music is small, but at the summer
school the teachers have good opportunities to make up this deficiency. Here there are six weeks
courses offered in weaving, loom
making, drawing, music, school
crafts, industrial crafts, dramatics
and folk dancing. These courses are
good and give the teacher a sound
training, and are available to all
teachers at a very small cost.

give sufficient pleasure.
There is a world of beauty in pictures that escapes the notice of the
casual observer because he does not
know how to use it. A little effort
spent in learning how to see pic
: ‘tures brings a great deal of addiwith and supplementary to all the | : =

subject matter that is being taught |

tional pleasure as its reward.
The first necessity for the proper

‘seeing of a picture is to try and see
it through the eyes of the artist
who painted it. A painting is never

an exact reproduction of nature. It

is intended to be a representation.

The artist selects his subject mat
ter and represents what he sees as

it appeals to his sympathy of interest. His experience and feeling affect his picture in direct proportion
to his power of self-expression,
which depends largely upon his materials and his ability to use them.
His technique, that is, his method
of fitting subject matter to his experience and feeling, interferes with
the sight of those who do not understand it.

The technique of each artist is his
own, and careful study is required
to master it. Fortunately every
artist does not differ widely from
every other artist in the use of materials, so that technique may be
studied satisfactorily in groups of
paintings. Different materials have
been used at different times in the
history of painting. When one
knows the difficulty in handling
various media one can understand
that technique is at the same time
the means of self-expression and
its greatest hindrance. Knowledge
breeds tolerance and makes it possible to allow for apparent failure
on the part of the artist. It becomes easy to see that the artist’s
failure in modern eyes is the result
of restrictions imposed upon his art
to which those eyes are not accustomed.

Every art has its own restrictions
and develops its own conventions.
These change with the ages; the restrictions according with the discovery and development of materials, and the conventions according with the growth of the artistic
intellect. Old pictures are not in the
least like modern pictures. Old pictures contain the ideas of a past
age expressed in the available materials in accordance with the artistic conventions of the age.

Cimabue’s “Madonna and Child”
needed no explanation for thirteenth
century Florentines. They had never
seen oil paintings or photographs,
but they knew the difficulties faced
in making frescoes and in painting
“in tempera”. People of today cannot recapture the ignorance of the
Florentines, but they can grasp the
old knowledge of the” artists’ restrictions and conventions. That
knowledge is necessary in order to
see Cimabue’s picture as he meant
it to be seen, that is, as an expression of his experience and feeling.

All pictures demand similar knowledge as prerequisite to the revelation of full beauty. The people who
see paintings are those who look
with a well-stored mind through an
unbiased eye.

E. L. B.

"I've lost my ticket for the tow.”
"Just give the man a Sweet Cap,”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

** The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

The National Fish Company, Limited

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

WALLACE SHOES Sterling or

Silver Plate?

Both have their place
in today’s living... at
Birks you will find the
finest of each.

Birks Sterling and
Birks Regency Plate—
the standard of excellence for Canada .

Henry Birks &
Sons

Diamond Merchants

Now is the time

For Ski Boots
and SKATING OUTFITS

for Men and Women
Wide Range of Styles

Priced from $3.95 to $11

Wallace Bros.
Limited
415 BARRINGTON ST.

Farmers’ Milk 1s

RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME
YOU’LL LIKE IT.

al

FARMERS’ LIMITED
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.&c,

| Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.

Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year,

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
y supervised residential facilities for men.

 
   
 
 

rath
_—~—==m
a2 7

SE

oj

F at L
Another co-ed comes forward this
| -—-s-week to have her name added to the
| =—s——s«é*ddist; of notables in the Hall of Fame.
May we present Miss Carly Sullivan
of Saint Stephen, N. B.

| =—s—“<i«éSa‘ily’ «<carmee to Dalhousie as a
| _ freshette in the fall of ’87. With an
entrance scholarship as a start, Carly has well lived up to her academic

standing of High School days,

As well as being a scholar and a
student of fame, Miss Sullivan has
also participated in many extra-cur__ ricular activities on the campus. In
the field of sport, Carly has played
forward for Dalhousie girls’ bas| . ketball team for four years and

rightfully earned her athletic Gold
“Pp”, As a tennis player she has
also represented Dal for three years
in intercollegiate tournaments. Nor
is that all—Carly can swim like a
| fish and never fails to do her bit in
ist a swimming meet.
4 With this outstanding record it
ie is easily seen why this year Miss
Sullivan was chosen for President
of the Girls’ Athletic Association.

Carly is a “Fraternity” girl, being a member of Alpha Gamma
Delta. Last year she was Corresponding Secretary for the “Alpha
Gams” and also President of Pan
Hellenic. Her classmates also elected her as Secretary for the year
1989-'40.

Two years ago Miss Sullivan represented Dalhousie at the Maritime
Regional Conference which took
place at St. Francis Xavier University. In Glee Club shows Carly
has done her bit, playing in “My
Tomboy Girl”,

This year Carly will be one of
Be the few women graduating as a
} -—~—sC Bachelor of Science. Having spec! ialized in Zoology, Carly is going
rs, to take a Lab. Technician’s course
. this summer and then hopes to go

‘The
Pig Sty

*
,

 

 

 

ee

Fe ,
Re
are
 
 

 

r
(Us
hy

ys. Rumor hath it that another Phi
| seit. pin has returned to the fold,
_ during a recent “blackout”, feabey turing Bill Harvey. Perhaps the
play practicces proved just a little
strenuous along certain “lines”.
a * *

_ The premiere of the Glee Club
show for the services on Thursday
was attended by one of the unmentionables and our exchange from the
West. We understand that the stage

crew spent a good deal of time in

___ the loft, undoubtedly shifting “Scen4 ery”,

* x &

Our old faithful, “Cooky-pusher”

Hutchins has turned socialist with a

- vengeance. Everything stops for tea
as they say.

     
      
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
 

* * *

| «‘The play was certainly the thing
last week. Like the Sun, it brought
ae a number of things out from under,
and we were treated by the presence
» of Hennigar, in a most belligerent
| mood. Just ask Gordon.

   

   
 
 
   

ns to be causing some comcertain sections. He’ll prob
a Vs ee Nog
- as ar ake Sa igi ae

7 rs y § oe 3

*

 

 

LUNATIC

LOBBY...

 

 

Episode IV: How Dance the Little
Glum Glub; or Let Them Oatcake.
Came the dawn. The haze which

had filled the gym upon the evap
oration of the Khaki-Klad Korpse
had by this time crystallized into
fresh drops of Rayne, who had
dropped somewhat freshly into the
arms of Joan Gloomytrees at the

Glum Club rehearsal.

“Do it again,” said Joan, “but
please be somebody else.”

Not to be outdone, Wilbur P.
Fizzleque had hied to the Atwood
Brewery to regal himself in a true
Fizzleque manner, and was by this
time being chased around by Dr.
Toddy, who had been commissioned
by King Karl to make a chemical
investigation of the odor.

“RuM,” he yelled, diagnosing to the
world in general, while Blurbie
Stewpot stamped his foot and pleaded, “Whisky and soda, rum and
soda, brandy and soda—it must be
the soda.”

Two freshettes sought to calm the
rage of the disturbed logician, but
he only moaned the louder, ‘Barbara, Barbara—all must be for Bar
bara.”
*

x
_ Seene 2: Spring Dance.

The hour for the show having arrived, Addle-Headed Flaming was
repulsing Muley Whackintosh, but
it was a part of an international
plot in which Roué McGoggy, as
the agent of Venus, was shooting
poisoned darts into the already
practically lifeless body of Crutch
McLimpy, while H. Rubbermug
Smythe hissed, ‘Give us the tools
and we will finish the job.”

At this point an appropriate
spring dance was rendered by Dr.
Toddy and Blurbie Stewpot, shouting their chemical analysis in tearful tones to the tense theatricalists.
Just then a seemingly lifeless figure, upon whom they had been mistakenly trying their analyses, slowly crystallized upon the footlights.
It was J. Windebag, extolling his
Infractional Soothing Syrups.

The speaker was greeted with
polite inattention when he detailed
the sufferings of students in Appalland and Czecho-comebackia and in
neutral countries like England, but
when he mentioned the incredible
hardships now being endured at the
University of Rangoon two simultaneous cries rent the stillness of
the Glum Club proceedings.

 

into research work. To a noble profession goes a noble student, and
with her goes our every wish for
success!

 

 

And speaking of “appreciation”,
it comes a little previous, but a
warning is a warning, as Ritchie
told the boys, “Never overestimate
the intelligence of a superior officer”. Somehow, I don’t think he need

worry.

x * *

The “Ferryboat Serenade” seems
to still be the theme of Bobby Musset. “Us Engineers’, we’re devils,

we are,

* *

One more dying gasp on the Glee
Club show. We’ve been wondering
just who was the “Star” of the production. Our Spies inform us that
from the amount of temperament
thrown around it was doubtful, but
then, who cares.

*

Wednesday night’s fracas at the
Scotian produced many things of
interest — chiefly that Hicks was
seen without Swansburg, and with
a lovely Air Force uniform. (We
are told Bob was out of town, but
then Kay didn’t look lonely).

+ * *

*

* *

Among those present also was
Marge MacKenzie, whose themesong for the evening should have
been “I’m Stepping Out With a
Memory Tonight’ — Winfred MacDonnell in the leading role.

TS

"9g

It is reported that Leo Green
(quote Dr. Smith) has started a
little research all on his own. We
honestly hope that his results confirm those of previous workers and
that he doesn’t get a cirrhosis of
the liver.

It’s an ill wind, etc., that blew
Doris some good luck last week.
Sam says that he doesn’t have any
regrets.

George Ingraham and Ron Ritchie
(formerly known as Glamour Pants)
were among the conspicuous stags
at the Glee Club Show last Friday.
Lt. Martell, however, was keeping
in touch with the old school tie.

 

Sid Wright’s arms were very “M.

.’ on Friday night, but Scottie was
certainly on his trail. Room-mates
are certainly a nuisance—they even
share girls these days.

 

 

George Coarse-one looked, J.
Windebag looked, and the two interrupters looked at each other. Mr.
Windebag’s eyes bulged with horror when he discovered that it was
none other than old friend, Rufus
Rayne, and his mortal enemy, Col.
J. Egglespie Oatcake. The two began to take immense strides toward
each other, stumbling as they went
over McGroggies and Stewpots and
such other carrion as lined the way.

Soon Major Hokum was seen to
approach with his murderous gang,
intent on seeing another KhakiKlad Korpse, if indeed that glorious privilege should be open to
them. J. Windebag came prancing
menacingly over the seaweed, tearing himself away from the embrace of Wilbur P. Fizzleque, who
feared for the safety of his friend
Rufus.

the terrible Col. Oatcake was determined on nothing less than murder.
“You have stolen the precious pearl
of Rangoon,” he wailed, “and you
have cast it before Major Hokum.
You ought to be ashamed, you violator of the Burma Road.”

“Quiet, Eggie,”’ suggested J.
Windebag—“make it swords. Make
him give you your duel back.”

“No so,” declared John Gaunt,
who had come forward to protect
the befuddled Rayne, “make it
smells at forty paces.”

This was satisfactory to Col. Oatcake, who was confident in his ability, but it alarmed Addle-headed
Flaming, who was finding Muley
Whackintosh hard enough to handle.

Angered by the alleged insult to
the military, Major Hokum now
brought up his cohorts and the
fumes became so intense that it
even began to curdle Roy’s coffee,
sending forth a blistering vapour
of lewisite which could barely be
detected in the confusion, but which
caused the hasty exit of Dr. Toddy
and Blurbie Stewpot.

By this time it seemed that the
jig was surely up for Rufus Rayne
and John Gaunt, who were by now
neatly stacked in the store room.

Suddenly, the sound of a million

marching feet was heard, and Auto
Antoff and his lobster fishermen appeared, marching in twos and threes
across the stage, singing, “I’ve
Smelled Worse Stinks Than This’.
Even this appearance of force failed
entirely to quell the Windebag-Oateake-Hokum mob, but it enabled
Rayne and Gaunt to make their escape and dash back to the fray.

This is clearly a case for arbitration, declared Sammy Skunk, as he
surveyed the situation in the pleasant company of King Karl. Obviously, replied the King, sniffing at
the strange odour for which he
seemed to blame his innocent Dawg.
So saying, they entered the arena.
When the smoke cleared away, six
corpses littered the Glum Club floor,
which Lester de Pester immediately
proceeded to sweep up.

Who are these six mysterious
corpses? Where did they come
from? What will the author of
this column do with them when
he comes back next week? See
for yourself, and let him worry.

eee CL LLL LLL

boas Bt — “

Rufus was indeed in danger, for!

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

NONSENSE 'N STUFF

G. Murray Smith changed his
tune last week—he now sings “I’m
Nobody’s Baby”. Maybe he is trying to convince himself.

 

Tat Murray’s natural wanderings
are only rivalled by those of Clarence Pottle in lst year. Both these
boys should get a little more sleep.

 

The Med School certainly upheld
its reputation on Friday night—
“Dooley” still gets excited about it.
Bernie still says that he can uphold
the medical tradition.

 

The Phi Rho initiation banquet
was a great success on Thursday
night, but the Phi Chi party on Friday capped the social events of the
week. It is too bad that the evening
was so wet. The big event of this
week is the Phi Rho Formal. We
hope that it is a great success and
that the weather doesn’t prevent the
arrival of out-of-town guests.

 

Palpitations? Ask Frank Charman if he’s ever felt them. Gass,
also, is having heart trouble these
days, but we feel sure that their
ingenuity will pull them safely
through.

ome ee

We have heard that Jackie Ken’s |

Cardias Efficiency is undiminished—
he and Shirley can sure “swing it’,
They’d win any jitterbug contest.
Where do they get the energy?

 

Murray MacDonald just can’t

stay away from Pine Hill. It’s pe-|
culiar how attached you can become |

to a place.

 

CANADIAN CAMPUS au

(Continued from page one)

participate in athletics. In both
cases, the trouble appears to be an
echo of the “no intercollegiate

games” rule passed by college heads
last summer. At Mt. A. the sports
editor of the “Argosy Weekly” got
as far as having it made clear to
him that athletes who are poor stu‘dents can play home games with
non-intercollegiate teams.

McMaster had less luck, for it was
decreed that such games cannot be
played in by Mac undergrads unless
they have a high second-class academic standing—which means that
most McMaster athletes are staying
quietly at home this season. Mt. A.,
too, for that matter.

 

 

ss ee _—
re Cee wel ib ey yt ; oer la .
=, eee = 4 iol oe . aa rs

Did you know? Are You Going?
Where? To the untor Dian Bee

Yes, it’s a “yes” dance. Everybody goes. The last big
Formal of the year when the Juniors entertain the Seniors.
Don’t you be conspicuous by your absence!
NEXT THURSDAY NIGHT
AT THE LORD NELSON HOTEL
Only $3.50 a Couple Buy Your Tickets Now!

Wy,

Y
Yh,

  

 
   

  
 

ty
Yup
47 4 7, /
A
YY

SAMA
SZ, y
v/ tM

SOs SSS

   
  

  

W

S

DR.YNN
DKK

AW

\

| Professor Whiffleschnozzle’s language was
shocking, we regret to report, when his suit
came home button-less. His wife should know
better. She should send his clothes to Cousins,
where,this can’t happen.

KX

‘
i

Under the heady influence of a Cousins-cleaned
suit, a professor has been known to dismiss
all his classes and spend the day strutting up
and down Barrington Street. For this reason
alone you should make sure that all your
professors are Cousins customers.

If you want to pass the next English test,
study hard. If you want to pass that Junior
Prom test next Thursday night, call Cousins
now.

L2323

 

LiMiTeo

CLEANERS LAUNDERERS DYERS STORAGE

 

 

EATON'S

Offers Smart Styles in

EVENING. DRESSES
for the

JUNIOR PROM

You'll find an interesting collection of
these new dresses that will be seen this
season ... beautifully styled, some with
little jackets,.and majority with flowing
skirts. The materials are lovely and very
colourful, and these will surely appeal to
the collegian seeking a new gown for the
Junior Prom.

EATON Prices, each 16.95 to 29.50

~

 

... And Accessories

A glamorous collection of new evening
shoes . .. exquisitely sheer silk hose...
fine gloves. You'll find everything you
need featured at EATON’S!

EATON CS ..

MARITIMES

ots

 

 
  
   
  

    

ie ;
le Ae ‘ .
; eae” ce Ms
r
,

 

 

by MUNRO and MacLEOD

    

 

ot.

   
 
 
 

four columnists have been busier the past week than two
#8 in a bucket ducking missiles (some hard and some soft)
fled with malicious intent from the hands of would-be
ssailants. So far we have come through unscathed, but some
ve come dangerously close. As a matter of fact one of your
writers has been ducking so often that his lower lip is now

where his vest pocket used to be. 4
_ If it has not been done already we think that it is time
someone extended a vote of thanks to Major Hogan and his
associates for their co-operation this year in giving the boys
leave from C.O.T.C. and A.T.C. parades in order to play football, hockey and basketball. With sporting activities reduced
to a minimum at the college without this co-operation it would
be impossible to carry on these activities. With further cooperation it is to be hoped that Dalhousie will be able to
continue in the world of sport for the duration of the war.
Replete with new nets, bats and what have you the Dalhousie ping pong fiends will swing and sway into action on
Monday in the opening round of the spring tournament. As
an added inducement this year the winner of the tournament
is to be presented with a great big sliver mug. So prepare
yourselves, fellers, for Monday, when the Gym will once more
resound with that irritating noise of the little white pellets
glancing off the green bats.

* %

We hear that a certain young assistant basketball manager
(hello, “scabber”!) has been accused of exploiting the funds
used to buy pop for the basketball team to the extent of a nickel.
It seems that the individual in question has set up a little
business of his own with soft drinks as his sole and only
article for sale. When we asked this young man about the
matter all we received in reply was a smile which we can get
any day of the week. Maybe he is taking his Commerce course
a little too seriously.

; we ee 8

The Dal Tigers Basketball entry has been setting a torrid
pace in the City League and as we said once before they look
good for the top place in the league when all the games have
been completed. Tuesday night they proved the veracity of
this statement when they edged out a strong Army team in
the last few seconds of the game. Ben Wilson proved to be
the hero of the game when he sank a penalty shot to give the
Tigers the game and then with a second to go Johnny Martin
put the game on ice with a spectacular one hand shot from the
corner. Coach Burnie Ralston was on the floor Tuesday night
and only the fickle finger of fate kept him from being one of
the leading scorers. That versatile athlete, Russ Webber,
who has played both football and hockey in his first year at
Dalhousie, treated the fans with a little basketball Tuesday
night by appearing on the floor for both the Tigers and Cubs.
|

* * OX
_ Well, donning our suit of armour for another week we must

ETO

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

TECH SEXTET, 4-0;

MITCHELL OUTSTANDING ON DEFENCE
MacDONALD PICK OF DAL FORWARDS

The Dalhousie Tigers went down to defeat 4-0 before a strong team
from the Technical College last evening at the Arena in a scheduled
game of the College Service League. The game was fast and clean
throughout with only one penalty being handed out in the game to Web
MacDonald.

Dalhousie took the offensive at the
opening whistle and Wilson and
MacDonald just missed clicking on
some smart plays. However, MacAulay in the Tech nets was in top
form and turned aside every thrust.
Mitchell on the Dalhousie defence

Third Period
MacCallum—7.00
Vaughan—14.00
West—18.25
Lineup:
Dalhousie: Goal, Warner; Defence
Mitchel!, MacDonald; Forwards,

played a standout game for the|Blois, Wiswell, Wilson, Corston,

Tigers and combined with Web Mac- | MacIntosh, Doig, MacDonald, Mul
Donald provided an air tight defence | lane.

for Warner in the Dalhousie nets. Tech: Goal, MacAulay; Defence,
Bulley, Rose, Fleming; Forwards,

pretty well balanced for the first five | Dickie, West, Fleming,

minutes until George West snared a
pass from Bulley to coast in on
Warner for the initial score. The
Tigers tried hard for the equalizer
but the Technicals held them off.
Dooley Macintosh along with Marty
MacDonald and Wilson carried most

of theplay for the Dal squad. Trim Engineers

The final period produced the best| Lanky Allen MacLeod sparked the
play of the night. The Tech team | Law sextet to a 7-2 victory over the
featuring smooth passing plays kept | Engineers yesterday in a match
the Dal boys on the jump, but{|match which lacked nothing for a
Warner in the Dalhousie nets made|spectator to ask for in the way of
several nice saves. MacCallum put/excitement as good hockey was
the Tigers two points down when he! mixed with a regular “donnybrook”
drove the puck through a maze of| which kept Referees Blois and Matplayers to lodge the puck in the|thew on the jump.
twines. Marty MacDonald and Cor-| Big Norm MacRitchie opened the
ston just missed getting the goal | scoring for the Lawyers rifling one
back but MacAulay continued to|past Goalee MacLean. The Law
star in the Tech nets. |forward line of Piercey, MacLeod,

It was Vinnie Vaughan who got/|and Anderson netted the other six
the next goal of the game on a nice | goals with MacLeod getting four of
individual effort. The Dalhousie |these. Bert Vail, assisted by Graham
board of strategy immediately put | and Wiswell, led the Engineers ason five forwards in a desperate|sault, the former getting one of
effort to break into the
column but their tacties backfired | other.

In the second period play was
pmol Phelan, Cohn, Nunn.

Law Pucksters

 

FALTER

February 14, 1941

IN THIRD

 

   
  
    
 

 

Y.M.C.A. Hoopmen

Defeat Dal Cubs

| The Dalhouse Cubs went down to!

defeat before a

. |team 381-25 on Tuesday evening at
Woods, : :
the Dalhousie Gym in a scheduled
Intermediate
League. The Dal squad were in the
lead several times in the game but
when the final whistle went they
were trailing the association quintet

game of the City

| by six points.

whistle when Evans
|'Nicholle combined for some

opening

lregistered two points on
| Shots. For the remainder
half the lead changed hands several
times and when the first half ended

[kets by Evans and Nicholle gave

ond half.

The Dal quintet put on a spurt in
the first few minutes of play in the

 

three point lead. Evans and Nicholle,

spring | their goals and Dunham sinking the | however led the attack for the Y and |

strong Y.M.C.A.|

The Y team took the lead at the Charman
and |

it was the Y’s turn to lead and bas-|

them a two point lead into the sec
next half and managed to get a)

Here's today’s biggest Value in
pipe tobaccos. A fine quality
mixture—full of flavour—mild
and cool. Try a pipe today.

In pouches, packages and 1% Ib. tins.

 

‘not quite good enough and when the
final whistle went the collegians
(were on the short end of a 31-25
| count.

Evans with 11 points chalked up
|In the score books beside his name,
| was the leading scorer of the game.
Nicholle shared scoring honors with
him for 8 points, Don Anderson
with 8 points and Jack Charman
were the best on the Dalhousie team
| keeping’ the Y boys eontinually on
| the jump.

| Lineups:

| Dalhousie:

 

Green 1, Zatzman 2,
7, Doig 4, Dunbrack 2, Hut| chins, Piercey, Webber 1, Anderson &

smart | Bovd.

baskets. The score was 4-0 for the! Y.MC.A.:
Y before lanky Don Anderson, who |
played an outstanding game for the
Cubs, using his height to advantage

Nicholle 8, Archibald,
| Parker 4, Stone, Evans 11, Creigh|ton, Bayne, Doubleday 6, Crouch
per 2.

penalty |
of the|

NOTICE

| Interfaculty Hockey Schedule.

| Thursday, Feb. 13th:

| Eng. vs. Law—1 to 2

| Friday, Feb. 14:
Winner of Eng. vs. Law vs, .Med

| —7 to 8 p.m.

| Friday, Feb. 21:

| Wimner of Eng. vs. Law vs. Med
—7 to 8 p.m.

Finals (two game total goals).

Any team wishing to arrange

p.m.

when George West scored on a low
shot from the corner a minute before the final whistle.

Ken Mitchell and Marty Mac
Donald were the outstanding players|from increasing their score.

for the Dalhousie sextet.
Summary:
First Period
No score
No penalties
Second Period

|

 

'

Mouse Foster also played.|took the lead once more from the/ games can do so by getting in touch
The Lawyers’ stalwart defense of |Cubs. The Dal team tried hard for| with the Interfaculty manager, Bob
Phillips and MacRitchie, aided by 'the equalizer but their efforts were’ Blois.

brilliant goal-tending of A. J. W.|
Macdenald, prevented the Engineers |
By |
virtue of this win, Law earns the
right to meet Medicine in the finals
starting this Friday night in a two
game total goal series to be completed on Feb. 21st.

 

 

  

 

 
 

OXFORD

Coming Mon., Tues. and Wednes.

 

 
     
    

ICAPITOL

THEATRE - HALIFAX

 

  

Humor at its best.

 

close or as the mayonnaise said to the refrigerator, “Close the

door, I’m dressing”’.

 

Letter To The Editor

Halifax, N. S., Feb. 9, ’41.
Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:
Tt was with regret that we read

' the commentary of your sports col
umn of February 7th. Your sports
editor, apparently suffering from
an attack of misinformation, has
bluntly accused the students of
King’s College of bringing the activities of the Interfaculty Basketball League to a stop, in reprisal
for a wrong previously done to
them.

Few people ‘Poalize the powerful
position held by the writer of a

as King’s decided to stand up to her
rights and asked for fulfilment of
the agreement even on a basis of
two-thirds of the time paid for,
narrow-minded observers at once
raised a protest. It was indeed untunate that the D.A.A.C. happened
to have its hours for the gym on
the night wanted by King’s. Even
though King’s has the floor for only
one hour on Monday night—7.30 to
8.30—the D.A.A.C. would have
them share it for this hour, with
the net result of its being of littl

West (Bulley)—5.05

     
     
   

GEORGE FORMBY

 

Student Badminton
Tournament Planned

ternoon hour instead, in order that
they would not interfere with a
second Dalhousie society. If this is
an unbecoming attitude, the word
has a new meaning.

For the information of the sports
writer, let it be pointed out that
no request for sharing their time
has yet been received by King’s. If

in

“LET GEORGE DO IT” }

    
  
   
   
   
    
         
    

Entries will be received up until
Saturday, Feb. 15 for the Annual
Dalhousie Student Badminton Tour

 
  
  

ORPHEUS|

Today, Saturday

nament. Singles, and Doubles, both

Men’s and. Ladies’, and Mixed

 
 

the D.A.A.C. will come to the proper | Doubles will -be played. “THE APE”
authorities and present their case,| It is hoped that all interested in with Boris Karloff
they will receive courteous atten- | badminton will enter the tournament and

so that it will be as successful as it
has-been in past years. Silver cups
have been provided for all events |
which should be a further inducement for a greater number of the
students,

tion. The statement that King’s has
refused to listen to them is entirely
false, and is justly and bitterly resented by every King’s man.
Finally, in regard to the. reference to an article in the King’s Col
“LEGION OF THE LAWLESS”

Monday, ,Tuesday and Wednesday |

“QUEEN OF HEARTS”
with GRACIE FIELDS and

“NOBODY’S CHILDREN”

 

i Little Nellie Kelly

1} JUDY GARLAND

Friday, Saturday, Monday

 

  

Today, Saturday and Monday

“The Letter”

BETTE DAVIS
HERBERT MARSHALL

*

Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday ||!

 
   
 

GEORGE MURPHY

 

practical use to either.

This unreasonable request was defended by the sports writers by saying that the gym is more crowded
this year than in previous years,
and that King’s could equally well

regular column of a college publication. Even if his ramblings are
read by only a few, he is capable
of warping facts so as to cause illfeeling. It is in an effort to pre
Dal societies before Christmas. But
vent an instance of this from going

lege Record entitled “Sold Up the
Hill”, it might be said that the Dalhousie sports writers understand
nothing of the internal workings of
King’s. If he is in the proper
mood, one can pick out any wrong
meaning by reading between the

 

 

Del Gibson is defendidng three
titles which he holds from lasst year
and he is expected to receive plenty
of competition from such stars as
Mountain, Keddy, Matthew and
Doig. So let’s see every badminton
player out and that means you!

 

 

 

GARRICK

Friday and Saturday
“STRIKE UP THE BAND”

CASINO

Saturday

unchecked that this reply is written.

Perhaps some facts would be in
order here. . The terms of the
agreement between the students’
councils of King’s and Dalhousie
provide that for the sum of two
hundred and eighty-five dollars, the
King’s players are entitled to certain privileges, including the clause
that the King’s basketball team may
use the gym floor on any three
hours of the week for practice, so
long as those hours do not conflict
with the Dalhousie senior team.

‘Nobody did any kicking when the
King’s manager obligingly arranged
for practice hours convenient to the

FAM

CieGAR-E T TE

AND MILDNESS

use the other two nights at its disposal,

That would be a reasonable defence if it bore out the impression
it conveys. In the first place, the
King’s boys have realized the probjens of the gym being overcrowded
due to our war effort, and have
placed their third hour at the disposal of the gymnasium authorities,
Thus one-third of their time is
available to Dalhousie players, yet
King’s paid its full amount as in
other years, without a sound of dissatisfaction.

In the second place, King’s has no
other night on the gym floor, the
reason being that they took an af
OUS FOR TASTE

S

Buckingham |

| order to fill the sports page, it is

lines of any article. The article
concerned the absence of football at
King’s this year, and the veiled
reference to it which suggested a
secret scandal is nothing short of
a misrepresentation of the truth.
The use of the gym floor is a concern of the basketball team only,
and King’s would appreciate an explanation in your sports columns of
the reference to football, and the
article in the Record.

Regarding co-operation between
the sister universities, the King’s
students were dismayed to read the
remarks in the sport columns. Such
irresponsible utterings on the part
of a yellow journalist is an example
of impediments grounded on ignorance which stand in the way of complete co-operation. When the sports
activities provide such little opportunity for comment that it is “necessary” to fabricate biased criticisms of the affiliated university in

 

NOTICE
All societies interested in playing Interfaculty Softball, please
get in touch with the Interfaculty Manager, Bob Blois, as soon
as possible, so that a_ schedule
may be drawn up.

yA OE

hoped that more intelligent students
of Dalhousie will see fit to have
their Gazette filled with something
above the level attained in political
editorials of cheap newspapers,
Yours truly,
WM. RALPH LEWIS,
King’s Basketball Manager.

———  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeSeSeSEeSeSNSeSe
a

 

SCL]

 

with JJUDY GARLAND and
MICKEY ROONEY

Monday and Tuesday
“SEVEN SINNERS” with
MARLENE DIETRICH
“CHRISTMAS IN JULY”

Wednesday and Thursday
“TOO MANY GIRLS”

“BRIGHAM YOUNG”
Tyrone Power and Linda Darnell.

Brought back by popular demand.
“Night Train To
Munich”

MARGARET LOCKWOOD
REX HARRISON

a Ct

 

 

LLIONS

—4 FLAVORS

CHOCOLATE.
BORDEAUX ~
BN YN ta

Rte

 
