 

e

 

   
    
 
    
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

(A C.U.P. Special Feature)
Winnipeg, Manitoba, Jan. 14,’41.

The importance of the Greek

bases in strengthening the British

navy’s hold on the Mediterranean
has been somewhat overlooked with
the pressure of news of Greek victories in Albania and the British offensive in North Africa. There is
no doubt, however, that the possession of Crete as a naval base was

’ a vital factor in the British success.

From Porto Bardia to Crete is only
225 miles and Alexandria is 300
miles away. This difference of 150
miles for aircraft and naval vessels
undoubtedly increased their effectiveness in battle during the last
few weeks and its importance will
become more apparent as the offensive moves westward.

The exploits of the navy in the
Adriatic would have been impossible
without the use of Greek bases. The
possession of Crete shortens the
distance to Taranto or Valona by
some 500 miles. In considering
these distances as factorsin the operations one must double the mileage, for with the present condition
of the Italian fleet every British
yessel makes the return journey.

There is no report of the use of
other bases than Crete, but Corfu
has a spacious deep-water harbor
and the neglected island of Cephalonia, off the entrance to the
Gulf of Corinth, has possibilities
as a naval base that have long
caused covetous glances from the
British admiralty.

These bases have made the blockade of the Dodecanese Island absolute and it is not thought that they
can hold out much longer. One cannot estimate the value of their surrender, but they might make an admirable prison camp for the L.L.L.
(Lousy Latin Legions). All Rhodes
pleads to Rome for a relief of the
seige, while the Italian navy Fiumes
in the Adriatic.

The strategic importance of Greece
in any land action combatting a
German drive further south into the
Balkans is practically’ self-evident.
The German drive, likely to be in
the typical and successful smashand-grab style, would have to
choose between an attack on Greece
aimed at Salonika or a drive to the

Dardanelles. If Greece were atCominued on page four

 

W. JOHN WINDEBANK

As announced last week,»W. John
Windebank has retired from his position as editor of this paper. His
former staff wish to express their
pleasure in having worked with him
and their appreciation of his unfailing courtesy and thoughtfulness.

Due to his organization of the
Gazette, the job taken by those continuing for this year has been made
easier.

Students’ Council
Appoint Editors-Other Matters

The Council of the Students met
in the men’s common room, Sunday,
Jan. 12th, at 2.30 p.m.—The highlights of the business meeting included:

(No application for editorship of
the Gazette having been received.)

 

 

1. Unanimous approval of the
Council in the adoption of Rowena
Benson and Jacqueline Cahan as
provisional co-editors of the Gazette.
Motion passed giving a sincere vote
of thanks to John Windebank for
his very capable handling of the
Gazette in 1940.

2. Plans for a skating party at
the Arena, under the sponsorship of
the Council, placed in the hands of
Webby Macdonald. Suggestion for
two hours’ skating, followed by
dancing to the Wurlitzer in the
lower gym.

3. Dalhousie to support the International Students’ Commission in
its drive for funds to aid university
students on other continents. Committee in charge: Louise’ Bishop,
Mary Doull, J. Windebank, B. Graham.

 

ONE MOMENT PLEASE

* All girls interested in debating, |

and in holding a series of debates,
please get in touch with Margaret
Graham, Shirreff Hall, by Wednesday. Delta Gamma has been invited
to debate with Sodales and a team
will have to be chasen,
i? Gee
_ All those who hope to graduate
in the Spring are urged to have
their pictures taken before Jan. 31.
This notice applies to any others
whose “mugs” will appear in the
“Year Book”. (P.S.—The graduates
have made special terms at the
Climo studio).
Ta aa,
The third immunization clinic

against diphtheria will be held this’

evening (Friday) at 7.30 in the

_ ¢linies. This is part of the student
_ health service. Take advantage.

s * *

culty hockey match tonight

8 p.m. Special Speaker: Ralph
Young. Recreation and Refreshments.

All Girls who play violin, viola,
or cello and interested in playing
in orchestra for Delta Gamma
Munro Day Project, get in touch

with Mrs. Barratt or Rose Goodman right away.
Ne Se

Tryouts for the Delta Gamma
One-Act Play, “Petticoats Preferred”, which will be presented in the
annual Connolly Shield competition,
will be held in the Men’s Common
Roonr of the Arts Building on Tuesday evening, January 21, at 7.30.
Let’s win the Shield again, girls!

ee ge

The Arts and Science One-Act
Play will be cast on Thursday evening, January 23, at 8 o’clock. It’s
a comedy with a mixed cast and
promises lots of fun for cast as
well as audience—so everybody out!

* x *

The Class of °41 will meet on
| Tuesday, Jan. 21st, Room 3, in the
Arts Building. The business agenda
requires your presence.

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 17, 1941

a ee ee

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

 

Uni
To the Editor of the Gazette: | ing scheme of Dalhousie
I would like to make a friendly ; versity.”
protest to one section of last week’s| This is a general motion meant
Editorial “The Editor Resigns”. to govern action of students in the
To quote this Editorial: future, particularly students con“The other point on which | wish |templating taking part in Student
readers to be clear concerns the at-| Council or related Affairs.
tempt made last month by one! 1 wish to make it clear, that my
member of the Students’ Council to! action was not one of haste, nor
get a motion through which would was it personal, and that the moforce me to take training or resign tion was not presented until I had
the editorship.” : ifirst discussed my action with the
As the Council member referred Pres. of the Council, Mr. Corston,
to I herewith restate the motion a5 /1h. Vice-Pres, Mr. MacDonald, Miss
proposed and projected by the de- | Smith, Miss MacQuarrie, Mr. Macciding vote of the Council presidert: | Dougall, Mr. Swansburg, Mr. Peake

“Be is resolved that no male stu-| 2,4 finally Mr. Windebank, the redent in Dalhousie University, hold- |

ing a Student Council position or |

 

 

No. 12

 

lee Club Serves Early Notice of 3-Act Play

 

Long Silence To Be
Broken At Last

Star-studded Cast Rehearsing Regularly For the Feature Phy
of the Season, “Spring Dance”, By the Author ef
“Philadelphia Story”.

—® The silence that the Glee Chub
has been forced to maintain will be
broken on Friday, Feb. 7th, when
they will present “Spring Damee”

in three acts, by Philip Barry.

The play will be under the vwery
capable direction of Mrs. K. C.
Clarke, teacher of elocution and
drama. Watch for further anmnowmnmeements!

The characters will be played by:
Dooley MacIntosh, John ‘Tiasmaan,

WineD. S. C.in
Overseas Service

The following letter which
President Stanley has been good
enough to turn over to the Gazette
for publication. It is written by our
representative to the Universities
Bureau in London. The description
of war-time London is news in its
 

 

one related to or controlled by the
Students’ Council be allowed to offer
that position as an excuse for nonparticipation in the military train
 

Sirois Plan Is
Discussed By
Professor Bates

Flaws In Finance Scheme

Asserting that the Sirois Commission Report has divided the
MAN, apportioning the task of
looking after his economic needs
to the Dominion Government and
thetask of attending to his cultural life to the provinces, Professor Bates at the Y.M.C.A. last
Friday night placed before his
audience many provocative questions concerning the efficacy of
the new machine proposed for
adoption by the Rowell - Sirois
Commission. _

At the outset the speaker enumerated five major recommendations
of the Commission. Responsibility
for the relief of unemployed employables was to be assumed by the
Federal Government, while care of
indigents was left to the provinces.
Provincial debts were to be taken
over by the Dominion. All corporation and income taxes and succession duties likewise were to be
transferred to the Federal Government.

A system of national adjustment
grants, presided over by a financial
commission, was to replace the present system of subsidies to -the
provinces. Provinces whose welfare
services are lower than the national
average are to be eligible for these
grants, while special grants to meet
emergency situations in private industries were to be carried out by
federal authorities.

Lastly, regular Dominion-Provincial conferences were to provide
greater constitutional flexibility, providing an opportunity for the voluntary delegation of powers to the
Dominion Government by the provinces when such was felt to be in
the provincial interest.

The main question posed by Professor Bates was whether or not
this “system of handouts” to the
economically weak provinces actually met the problem itself, that of
unequal economic development in
Canada, or whether it was just a
palliatice. “Will it rebuild backward
areas?” he asked. “Will it create

| positive achievements and good gov
ernment ?”

The crux of the whole matter as
seen by the speaker seemed to us
to be the Commission’s interpretation of Canadian history as a whole,
as set forth in Volume I of the Report. Their conclusion that Canada,
having developed as a federation,
must continue as one was questioned. The difficulty before the commissioners was that while historical

Continued on page four

tiring editor. self. The writer, Dr. John Cameron,|Joan Blackwood, Adelaide Flem| Thanking you for this valuable} was Anatomy Prof. here from 1918-| ming, Ruth MacQuarrie, Marjorie
|space, I remain 1980. MacLean, Harry Smith, Kay Robin
: Your fellow student,

HENRY REARDON.

|ARTS GROUP HAS

Bournemouth, England.
Nov. 1, 1940.
Dear Dr. Stanley:

I wrote to the Secretary of the
Universities Bureau expressing my
| regrets that I would be unable to
BEEN ORGANIZED attend the meeting today, and I wish

ais ; .,, |to offer you my apologies in connec
| The meetings of this group will!tion therewith. As you may know,
‘be held in the Murray Homestead, |the south of England is a restricted
. every second Thursday, from 7.30 to | area, so that, in addition to the risks
19.00 o’clock. Program for the term |of being bombed or machine gunned,
lif your train is approaching London

lis as follows: \during an Air Raid, you are liable to

| Jan. 23— ibe turned out of the train in the
| Renaissance Art—Lecturer. suburbs and left to find your way to
| Feb. 6— your destination as best you can. In
1. Patek ‘Painters Saminas that case, you might be late for the
'Feb. 20— meeting or perhaps never reach it
; at all. We had an experience of this
| French Painters—Lecturer sort last week on our return from a
March 6— visit to my eldest brother in Scot
English Painters—Lecturer jland. As we approached London we
March 20— jheard the Siren, and at Willesden

Junction we were ordered to leave
ithe train. I fished our luggage out

Architecture—Prof. Wilson.
up of the van and a kind porter under
 

|

son, “Clutch” MacKimmie, Kay
Hicks, Eileen Mader, Bert Perrot,
and John Barrett.

 

see much of the damage. Jt was
remarkable to note how well the
buildings had escaped, though the
Huns have played havoc with the
window glass. It was almost badicrous to see whole streets of hompes
devoid of glass.

As we entered Waterloo the Siren
went again, and I want to pay a
tribute to Londoners. There were
rows of seats full of people waiting
for trains and we did not see a
single person stir through a joud
speaker was giving the positions of
the shelters. After a long wait, we
got a train to Bournemouth and
reached home in the Blackout without any more adventures.

Dalhousians will be proud to know
that Lt. Alec Fraser-Harris, R.N.,
has been awarded the Distinguished
Service Cross.* I have nursed him of
GRADUATE APPOINTED

Word has been received that
Zilpha Linkletter, former student at
Dalhousie, has been appointed to the
staff of Prince of Wales College.
Since graduating with distinction in
Arts in 1939, Zilpha has been teaching school on “Spud Island”. Now
she takes the place of another Dal
graduate, Alfred Linkletter, who has
joined the Army.

Women Editors
Are Appointed
Gazette Post

Hats off to Rowena Benson and
Jacqui Cahan for bravely stepping forth and accepting the responsibilities of the editorship of
our Gazette. The Sports are now
being looked after by Dewar MacLeod, Bob Blois and Bain Munro.

Rita Harrison has taken over the
Literary section and Joan Blackwood, in collaboration with Harry
Smith, is looking after the news.

SS Leica nse attmmaattat tin

Don Black is the new Exchange
and C.U.P. editor. Margaret Graham and Penny Patchell are the
Proof Editors.

Orchids to these people who have
so willingly offered their services in
the middle of the year, just so you
and I can have a Gazette to read
each week. Imagine college life
without a “Pig Sty”!

re

The big dance of the season,
sponsored by the Engeering Society,
was held on Thursday, the 16th, in
the Nova Scotian Hotel.

Cabaret style featured the dancing. Organ music during the intermission was well received. The
chaperons for the evening were
Prof. and Mrs. Copp, Prof. and Mrs.
Theakston, Major and Mrs. Hogan,
Prof. and Mrs. Macneill. Music
from 9 to 2 was provided by Jerry

BOILERMAKERS’ BALL
| Naugler and his band,

  

ten and he looked on me as his gedfather, though not officially so. He
is in the Fleet Air Arm and was shot
down while atempting to bomb a
German ship in Norway. He and his
observer swam ashore and were
sheltered by a farmer who gave them

Continued on page four

took to get a taxi for us. He went
off into the streets and by good luck
secured one for us—as many fellow
passengers were placed in the same
fix. We started off on the long drive
to Waterloo Station, and as we had
to pass through some of the best
known districts, we were enabled to

Pik +: Fence

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion e

 

 

    

    

YOUR FAVORITE GAZETTE FEATURE?
Most popular items in the greatest paper in the world, according to
are those notable. features entitled the “Pig Sty” and “Say $9”
Studley turned

in by far the greatest number of “Pig Sty” votes, while Forrest plugged

poll,
Each of them accounted for 21% of the people quizzed.

strongly for “Say 99”. Which campus has the most cultured taste we
are not for a moment presuming to Say.

Next most popular, despite his recent sad dousing in the Arm, is the
fantastical “Rufus Rayne from Rangoon”, who maintains his popularity
with 14% of the voting public. ‘The front page news attracts 12%, the
Sports the same number. Whether the addicts of the front page meant
to include “Dipo” in their laudits is a trifle doubtful, but one solitary ¢oed, bless her heart, did name “Dipo’”. The ever-sparkling Editorial page
was backed by another 9%, with the “3rd Estate” and the Literary Comments picking up other odd votes. 7% thought it was all so good they
didn’t want to draw subtle distinctions.

pee oe
YOUR FAVORITE CITY NEWSPAPER?

Largely because it carries two pages of Comics instead of one, the
Herald (or Mail) was named by 55% of those quizzed as their favorite
city newspaper. The Chronicle was second with 22%, being selected
largely for its Editerials. Another 6% boldly named “Storm” as Halifax’s
outstanding newspaper, and 4% insisted on naming the Gazette, which
is, of course, published in Halifax. Another 10% have no particular preference, while 4% don’t read any of them.

It is interesting to notice that while the students quizzed appear te
have a preference for one of the city newspapers, they religiously read
both. 86% regularly read the Herald or Mail, and 82% the Chronicle or
Star. Storm is read by 21%, the Citizen by 11%. How many read the
Gazette we didn’t ask.

2k ; °K *
HAVE YOU SEEN THE TIGERS THIS SEASON?

Just exactly who goes to the Arena to watch the Dal Tigers play
hockey remains somewhat of a mystery after this week’s poll. Exactly
12% of the people we asked had seen them play, another 88% had not,
and some of them declared they didn’t plan to, so the prospect is not too
good.

Just how many of the ones who have been to the rink play’ on the
team we are not sure, but at least one of them certainly does. If the
popular demand is great enough we may have a poll in a few weeks to
find out whether enthusiasm is increasing as the season wears on.

 
 
    
       
     
    
 
 
 
    
 
 
    

 
  

ects Printing Co., Het 3 54 + Argyle street; Halifax, N. S.

 
   

B-9746
B-3148
B-9586
B-9746
B-4421
B-9746
B-3674
B-5635
B-5724
B-9746
B-2717
B-9746
B-9746
B-1049
B-9746

    

Ya, Ss Sa ae lea: Miat

   
   

Che ke Rat Ee . ee, De a ee
i ot SE eg) rhe) Eee
i> -8-. 3o S32 rg ee eek B92 es
4 ' ' : ‘ ‘ ' ' ’ ‘ ; ' ' ' :

   

_ €o-operation should be the key-note of the new year. If
it is selfishness that causes wars and social problems, it is cooperation and unselfish effort that solves them. This term,
ore than ever before, the editors are striving to make the
tte a joint effort of the whole student body, rather than
extra-curricular activity carried on by the few. The
ent issue has been written, edited, and set up by only
persons; this is little more than one per cent of the
dent body, and unless the editors receive more widespread
pport, future publication will be impossible.
It may be suggested that the Gazette should be dropped
» the remainder of the term. . The chief objection to this
iz | i 3 that the business manager, as a representative of the
tudents’ Council and thus of the whole student body, has
ade contracts for advertising with numerous business firms
Canada. These contracts were made at the opening of the
col ihe » year, and if not fulfilled the students immediately lose
___ the confidence of these and other firms likely to support DalmS - housie publications in the future.
Rey Besides this purely financial angle, there are other good
. reasons why the Gazette should go on. One of the aims of
tb eer has always been freedom of expression. Day by
day, hewever, we are being forced to realize that formal posssion of a right is not enough. Citizens of a democracy must |
wish to exercise their rights, and must be able to do so intelligent! If nobody has any opinions, government becomes an
nefficient oligarchy instead of a well-run co-operative enavor. The college paper, in providing a medium for the exof student opinion, is filling a need which should be
ies any so-called democratic community. It is not easy to
Rs learn to express one’s opinion, but the attempt should be made.
_ A paper also helps to unite a university. It is obviously
‘impossible for eight hundred students to know each other personally, or even to meet together very often. Besides, different ‘groups on the campus have interests which are very
qi A paper, with its write-ups on the numerous activi€ S , forms a common meeting-ground.
ri _ For these reasons, the new editors are willing to take over
ah _ the Gazette, if they receive a larger amount of active support.
_ Everybody is very busy, but if more were willing to do a little
the pressure on the present small staff (who are also
_ busy) would be lightened. With the enforcing of military train_ Ing, the carrying on of extra curricular work is left mainly to
the women. For the first time in its history, the Gazette is
under the editorship of co-eds, and also the majority of subeditors are women. This is as it should be. The last war gave
women the privilege of assisting the men. This war is giving
_ men the privilege of assisting the women in all jobs which do
. not require army dress.

   

   

yO. “ei
v 7

ee ‘ACADEMIC FREEDOM AND THE ROBBER BARONS

_ According to well-established reports from Toronto Pro_ fessor F. A. Underhill, professor at the University here, was
5 ~ approached on New Year’s Day by three of the most influential

" BY _ members of the Board of Governors and asked to resign. The
- reason alleged was that he was endangering the Provincial
_ Grant to the University, in short that he was not acceptable
_ to the Hepburn machine.

_'The incident which apparently gave ocak: their excuse for
- such, action was a meeting of the student CCF Club featured by
geech on the subject, Hepburn Must Go. Professor Underwho is a strong CCFer, happens to be the Honourary
sident of the Club, but) on this occasion the students had|~ -——=—<—<; 737 SCSC<Ot*é=<S;S;S;SSW*#é~<S:;SCS;té‘i‘zé;!S
and carried through the meeting without consulting
_ him, The sole remaining charge, then, was that he was an
__ active member of a party which desired the defeat of the

Bee _ provincia Liberal administration.

___ The claim, implied in this attempt to force Professor
Under nill’s resignation, that University Professors should not
a a ao part in political activity against the government in power,

is a direct pees | yan that liberty of expression allowed to

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
    
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
      
 
 

| At leant one member of the McGill staff, Professor
rus s MacMillan, of the English department, to our ‘knowledge,
_ has been criticized for political campaigning. In Canada we

saa seat ee approaching a situation in which opposition is con” fuser with treason. The same logic which would have Pro
uld be used against any Conservative or even against a
aikorie King Liberal: For this reason Colonel Drew, the
Ontario Conservative leader, has lately become quite inter ested

in the matter of civil liberties.
hh ai a ne ee has, for the pragéht at least, apparently
vi ih Pr g manifestation of popular student

ssor Underhill followed reports that his

3s to support this demonstration. The
as met, and reported that the matter was
efore it. Whether this is the end of the

1} i ¢
{fier Fee i eyes ‘
‘1 Mae ee he
‘i F ¢
; ¥
4

       
  

~

*

Le, fi a ai 7
Bee, ? ve

sy. my i ue

it on
Patines
i. 4

i

é he * , _ s ,* 5
ak YO aki ee )
aCe

Peat, et u 7 4
he

Mis
1 Fig a t a “ a) a vi

a i210 | Oe ev
‘i 4) a | Hie Ne

 
 

     
 
   

1
Vy

It is with the following cryptic
message that one is introduced to
“The Cream of the Jest”: “James
Branch Cabell made this book so
that he who wills may read the
story of man’s eternally unsatisfied
hunger in search of beauty. Ettare
stays inaccessible always, and her
loveliness is his to look on only in
his dreams. All men she must
evade at the last and many are the
ways of her illusion.”

The account of the life of Felix
Kennaston, which immediately follows, gived the ironic and sceptical
philosophy of the author full play.
His laughing mockery at the futility both of real life and the life of
escape to which men take refuge in
their dreams is mordant but never
bitter or misanthropic. The sting of
his jibes is always lightened by the
good taste in which they are expressed and the irrepressible humor
with which they are accompanied.

Superficially it is the work of a
pessimist, but more careful observation reveals a sporting spirit that
enjoys the game that he is playing
despite the fact that the cards are
stacked against him.

After a somewhat tiresome introduction to the dream-world of Felix
Kennaston in which we make the acquaintance of La Belle Ettare, who
is the symbol! of everything that is
beautiful, we follow him through
the rather drab and sordid realities
of his everyday existence which is
enlivened by frequent excursions to
that other land of fancy where Ettare awaits him and in whose company hd has the most amazing experiences. Even in his dreams she
remains untouchable and every attempt to come to grips with her is
followed by frustration and awakening.

It is the story of a man who mes
a — ot va J —~ ’

| \ (By James Branch Cabell)

merizes himself with the top of a

cold-cream bottle to which he at-|

taches occult significance and. who
attempts to achieve in a mystic world
of his own, imagining the happiness
that is denied him in his own demestic life.

The “Jest”, of course, is life and
its “Cream” lies in the fact that it
can never be quite what we desire
it to be. Ettare is Kennaston’s wife,
not. as she actually is, but as she
might be if she came up to her husband’s expectations.

Perhaps purposely, the style of
the book when dealing with the corpulent rather sordid Kennaston in
the flesh is rather irritating, but in
his dreams wherein he traverses the
universe with a magnificent disregard for Time and Space we are introduced to a remarkable new man
and adventures in passages of exquisite beauty.

As we follow Felix Kennaston |
through his varied experiences and
his meetings with the great figures
of history, we sometimes wonder
whether life is not “a blind and aimless business, not all a hopeless
waste and confusion”, as in his waking hours Kennaston often conceived
it to be.

To the end the riddle remains unsolved — that is the cream of the
jest. To escape a nobler and more
beautiful existence through dreams
is perhaps rather futile and a delusion, but the vision that is revealed
is an assurance that life is something more than “a futile scurrving
through dining rooms and offices
and shops and parlours, and thronged streets and restaurants, and so
to bed”.

Perhaps this savours of mysticism, but it is only by raising our
thoughts to a higher plane that the
way to a new life will be assured.

|

 

My Impressions of Perce Rock

The Gaspé Pensinsula situated in
Quebec Province between the St.
Lawrence River and the Baie des
Chaleurs and extending into the
Gulf of St. Lawrence, has of recent
years become the Mecca for American tourists.

This “Extremity of Land’ (the
name Gaspe is a form of the Micmac word “Gaspeg” meaning “the
end, the extremity”), boasts scenery
unsurpassed by any in the world.
From the beautiful Matapedia Valley along the Baie des Chaleurs to
the northern side of the Peninsula,
the visitor is surrounded by such
breath-taking beauty of valley and
mountain meadow and sea, that it is
difficult to decide which impresses
one most.

Undoubtedly a highlight of the
scenic attractions is LeRocher Percé
which is 1,420 ft. long, 250 ft. wide
and 280 ft. high at the prow. It is
a sight to make poetic the most
prosaic.

Percé—At Dawn

The fragile fingers of the Dawn
caress the Rock, lighting its
sombre strensth with beauty that
arrests one’s soul as if on threshold
of a Paradise unkown. The grey

violet rays and rose, and, as the
clouds hasten in clustering hills to
gain the benediction of the light,—
the Sun o’er—vaults the far horizon’s rim in swift harmonious motion. A path of glittering glory lies
across the sea, bathing the Rock,
the white sailed boats and wheeling
gulls in refulgence.
Percé—At Sunset

A wilful wind, ruffling the shorebound waves into skirts of foam
departs sighingly. The Rock stands
sentinel in a stillness all enveloping.
The fringes of the western sky
laugh in a sudden blaze of rosy
light diffused through gossamer
clouds whose dusky shadows lighten.
Crescending, the colors deepen, The
Sun, with glory undimished, hangs
in reluctant splendor. Slowly, as if
gathering the robes of Night, it
stoops to greet the encroaching sea,
lingers in lonely luminousness, then
disappears, leaving the lessening
brightlooms lorn 2s wunanchored
hearts. A stray gull homing seems
but whiter in the gloom, and the
waves recurrent lap in quiet lullaby.

sea changes momentarily to shimmering gold; the Rock picks up the
J. Py

 

PAGING LESTER

“You in the back of the room,
what was the date of the signing
of the Magna Charta?”’

“J dunno.”

“Well, then, can you tell me what
the Tenni# Court Oath was?”

“T dunno.”

“You don’t! I assigned this stuff
last Friday. What were you doing
last night?”

“T was out drinking beer with
some friends.”

“You were! What audacity to
stand there and tell me a thing like
that. How do you ever expect to
pass this course?”

“Well, I don’t, mister. You see,
I just came in to fix the radiator.
I’m the janitor.”--Western Gazette.

Drab she are

And like a dishrag,

And her voice is just a drone;

She has money,

She’s a honey,

Where the heck’s the telephone.
—Silver and Gold.

Then there is the story about the
two co-eds who went for a tramp in
the woods—but he got away.

——Manitoban.

 

occasion is a matter still in

and that it is desperately in

 

a his beliefs by our Board of

doubt. What is clear is that

academic freedom has as yet but a slight foothold in Canada,

need of student support. For
: tunately no like incident. has, to our knowledge, ever arisen at
une Fegese and the Editors of the Varsity | Dalhousie. No liberal professor has been dismissed on account

Governors. But there is abund
ant need to be on the watch for attempts to infringe the
freedom the universities have won, and university students

i ‘postponement until a more epee have as great a stake in the matter as the powers that be.

fete ae, St nda AB

i ‘me Ved Ne te is . a ae
of, sf 7 , r i i ae Fo

49 ee Fy { de Beil it e fe be il nt
F "I 2 ‘th oe

 

 

|
|
|
}
}

i

 

 

“Lost your temper?”
“No, my Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

The National Fish Company, Limited |

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

WALLACE SHOES

Now is the time

For Ski Boots
and SKATING OUTFITS

for Men and Women
Wide Range of Styles

Priced from $3.95 to $11

Wallace Bros.
Limited
415 BARRINGTON ST.

Farmers’ Milk 1s

RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME
YOU'LL LIKE IT.

So’

FARMERS’

LIMITED
NOVA SCOTIA

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Inchides all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History,

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to
M.A., M.Sc. ii ‘. Pee

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

| Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy, an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the R. - course averay re
about $160
in the B.Sc. course shout $190. 00 2 ¥eeh: for

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

LIL a,

) ‘
.

 
 
   

has *
CPS a) Re
9 ee ase eo he
mee ee eke Ake

   
     
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 

eee

 

gS
  

 
  
   
    

 

| Be Oise, Entitled “Smoking In
the Outer Lunatic Only.”

Towards sundown last week some
of the inmates of Stodgely Campus
became aware of a peculiar presence in their midst. One of those
scores of students who usually
|throng Blurbie Stewpot’s office on
s|Thursdays to read the Mantwister
Guardian and witness the gestation
of the Sunday Soliloquy, at a chance
glance out of the window, focused
his orbs on a purple-visaged individual peregrinating across’ the
|quod, a man obviously of large
|jlimbs and mature understanding,
who moved as if he had more than
a passive interest in his surroundings. ;

His name, as King Karl had ascertained before instructing Miss
Hank to heave him bodily out of
the office (let the dawg out, too, if
you don’t, mind), was Colonel J.
Egglespie Oatcake (to his intimates,
“Eggy”’), and he had come, among
other things, to inquire after an
old friend of his from the land of
Rangoon. “Rufus, we dubbed him,”
said Eggy fondly, “on account of
his name being Rufus Rayne. Knew
him at the club y’know.”

The Case of the InFlammable

Editors.

On being informed that his friend

was last seen enroute to the bottom

young doves don’t
- any more. Yehudy
hea | over heels. He’s in
that unique little chickaook ga tee ork ad

  

    
 
 
    
      
   
     
     
   
 
    
     
      
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
   

  

c “consult ‘Mipthians. ‘Nor did
up the classical “other
7” but, “just becausé it was Yeaf she'd think it over, She ad
  

 
  
 

  

i ol niooadere to, go. Before hangiiiy
; ieee thankeé him for calling
UP

 

that has won tee him the
n of Don Juan, meandered
toward a -Rosita’s house,
ing under the weight of the
2, tion of spending a good hour

 
 

 
 

No sooner had he rung, than who
should appear? — None other than
Rosita herself!
hy ‘s | “Hello, Yehudy,” she «chirped.
Bliss 8: “Pm all ready, Just a minute, I’ll
ee ., Slip on my coat.”

She was gone for less than a
oond. Yehudy was astounded.

XH Lig “Why, woman,” he exclaimed
Ms aie when he recovered, “you’re amaz
mY _ ing. Ready on the dot! You’re one
e ce a million.”

- She smiled.
“Have you taken a milion women
out?” she inquired playfully.
“Well, not exactly,” replied modest Yehudy in a tone that implied
that, if the number was not pre_ cisely one million, it ran at least
ap to nine hundred thousand, nine
_ hundred and ninety-eight.
_ But the greatest surprises were
yet to come. When they reached
the Union and Yehudy took the disheartening dive into the pit of his
inside coat porket, Rosita pulled him
_ aside.

“Here,” she said, offering him a
bright new fifty cent piece, “take
this. It’s my share of the ticket.”

Yehudy laughed a loud and
haughty laugh.

"You have a swell sense of humor,
rm Rosita,” he replied. “Now let’s buy
‘the ticket. The music’s started.’

She grabbed him by the sleeve as
he turned to go.
oy “No, I’m serious. Take this.

Look, we women are always quibbling about the equality of sexes,

aren’t we? Well, equality involves
not only privileges, but responsibilities, as well, I’m one of those who
practice what they preach. No, it’s
no use discussing the matter any
further, Take this and buy the
ticket.”
‘It was a dumfounded Yehudy that
handed two quarters and a bright
_ ‘new fifty cent piece to the man at
_ the Tuck Shop.
> The entire evening was one uni . expected event after another. She
me “never gave him anything to lug
around, never had to powder her
nose, she declined all invitations to
ee with others, she always let
_ Yehudy do his manly bragging unie _ hampered and, when she spoke, it

“was not about herself, but of him.
Furthermore, she hated jitterbugng and Yehudy almost fell over
en. she left a nickel tip for the

 
 

 

hudy began to figure that somehow,
perhaps, he could work in a goodnight kiss, even though it was a first
date. But from the car-stop all the
way to her house she kept on telling him what a swell guy he was,
so that he didn’t get a chance to
work out his routine about the stars
and her eyes, the soft, autumn
breeze and her breath, the velvet
night, and her velvet complexion.

At the doorstep, she failed to.
linger. Instead, she opened the door
and went right in, calling back to
him:

“Come in and have a cup of coffee
before you go.”

Now Yehudy is not what you
would call a green lover, only when
a woman takes the initiative out of
a man’s hands, she leaves him without the advantage of a weapon of
aggression, In the hall he hesitated.

“Are you sure it’s all right?” he
asked timidly.

“Of course,’ she replied assuringly. “The folks are all fast asleep.
Go into the parlour and turn on the
radio while I get the coffee.”

Yehudy followed instructions.
Feeling his manliness slowly returning, he strategically occupied the
middle seat on the sofa.

 

mellow tunes.

 
 
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
    

ed closer and led with his right:
“Do you like the music?”
She hummed languid consent.

about you?”

beautiful aspect of youth.”

ment.
was back in there, fighting, again.

'a bit more powerful:
“Do do mind if I kiss you?”
“Of course not.”

i Mt hail @).cab.”
~ Onee again she grabbed him by]
e sleeve.

Don’t be silly,” she said. “I
ply adore walking in the rain.”
eh udy could stand it no longer.
; More such surprise and he’d
Po her, of course, Rs said

man’s version

rubbing.

a technical victory:
“Do you mind .

“Of course sg a
* *

?

fa occupation. He told Hae
“hat whenever it rained good and
hare Ra drop anything he’d hapo be doing and go out for aj

'

*

 

 

er. Faas ride in the trolley,

which she paid his fare in|
y save him from the addinense of giving two tickets
a dime since the con
pillow.

phonetic spelling.

It would be futile to elaborate on
the situation of a young man and a
young woman on a cozy sofa, in low
lamplight, with the radio emitting

Yehudy didn’t wait until he had
finished his coffee to act. He shift
Then a left to the jaw by Yehudy:
“Do you mind if I put my arms

“Of course not,” was the reply.
“We might as well be sincere with
each other, Yehudy. Here we are,
a couple of young people in a sentimental mood. And love is the most

This topped the evening’s surprises and, for a moment, somewhat
baffled Yehudy. But only for a moBefore you count three, he

After a short clinch, our dashing
.|hero tried another right, this time

And they indulged in the civilized
of Eskimo  nose
In a little while Yehudy had won |

A soul-piercing, cruel ring of the |
alarm clock, and Yehudy found his!
arms tenderly folded about the sith
warm but lifeless form of his |

And as he scrambled out of bed,
he muttered a word which started
with a “d” and ended in an “m”—

 

 

Sowas sae sanssasasaseasesasenaeaaasee

Dalhousie’s |
who's ahs

a En ek IO LILLIE OIE} naam aa

Boome eis

 

of the harbour, the Colonel had
muttered something about lodgins
being frightfully hard to get these
days, spose it’s cheaper there, and
had set about attending to the underlying nature of his visit, which
was to get some guileless youth
militant tq stand him a pink gin
down at the artillery officers’ mess.

Spying Lieutenant Jack Holyplace, who was saluting himself in
the mirror which Binnet’s English
Too Class had been holding up to
nature for the last fifty years, he
sidled up to the young innocent and
unassumingly pinned a bronze medal on his breast, upper left.

“Take that man’s name,” roared
the startled Holyplace to Sammy
Skunk, who was wheeling a couple
of janitors past in a wheelbarrow,
thereby frightening Eggy to such
an extent that he scrambled out of
the vicinity and made for the Deadwoods campus, where there might
be better hunting.

“President Coarse-one” was heard
to opine, “may show some interest
in my new booklet, “Soothing Sayings and Ponderous Platitudes For
All Occasions’. A young man of his
intelligence ought at least to be
good for a beer.”

“President Coarse-one is good for
nothing,” corrected the recalcitrant
Councillor Auto Antuft, stepping
out from a crowd of disgruntled
fishermen. “If it’s influence with
the military gents you want, go to
Hank Wierd-one. There’s a guy
who knows exactly which side his
bread is buttered on and just how
to lie in it.’ And with that the
crafty fellow pinned Colonel J. Egglespie Oatcake down for a _ ten
cent tip and took his departure, just
in time to avoid a head-on collision
with Wubber McTunnelled, who
was weaving down the causeway
with an armful of blondes and
screaming, “Wot does yer ruddy
well think, the shemales has captured Dalousy Gazoot after all these
years.”

And. McTunnelled, despite his
three months among the lawyers,
was speaking the truth. J. Windebag, having traded his somewhat
dubious brains for an extremely ef
 

This week we take great pleasure
in introducing’ the versatile student
of the campus, none other than
Henry C. Reardon. He graduated
from St. Mary’s College and came
to Dalhousie in the fall of 1934. In
his early years at Dalhousie Henry
was particularly active with the
College Band, was a stage hand in
the major productions of the Glee
|Club for four years. His attention
was next turned towards the bus
and to the financial side of several
publications.

For six years now Henry has
been Business Manager of the Year
Book. In ’86 and ’87 he managed
ithe tennis team and in ’38 the hockey team. The Medical Book Exchange claimed him as manager in
37. For two years Henry was
class representative to the Medical
Journal, and he also found time to
be an associate editor of the Gazette
for a year.

 

ficacious bayonet, had signed over
his red pencil and eyeshade to the
fiery Miles. Ha-can and Benzine,
and at that very moment was chasing Ignatz Schmidt down South
Street at bayonet point, howling
madly for his back pay.
ee

Which only goes to show how
time wounds all heels. When, oh
when, brother, will our turn
come?

 

 

The
Pig Sty

Rumor hath it that Webby Macdonald may be incorporated into
the new system of traffic lights,
due to a very noisy pair of Christmas socks—of American knit, we
understand,

Ae

 

 

 

The current question at the Phi
Rho seems to be, “Who’s going to
take out Helen Daley?”

sk

Our old friend Gillis has finally
returned to college—for a _ rest.
Don’t forget, Jeff, a change is as
good as a rest anytime.

*

* *

* *

*

Joan is on the loose again, boys!
“Corky” has taken a change of
climate. Better make hay while the

“ve a friend I’d like you to
meet.”

“Moon” shines. Athletic girl: “What can he do?”
oe Chorus girl: “How much has he?” |
Literary girl: “What does he

“Lonesome Pole” Tasman is hav-| read?”
ing laundry trouble—the dirt is not Society girl: “Who are his fam
ily?”
Religious girl:
he belong to?”
College girl:

so bad, but that lipstick makes an

awtul mess. “What church does

mae ek tea

“Where is he?”

Freshette Chris Arklie must have
had quite a holiday. We notice she
has that R.M.C. pin back again.

YOUR

 

What Would
You Like

Before Christmas
money slips away,
why not invest it in a
tangible, lasting gift.

:
;
| Perhaps a College
Ring from Birks.

Henry Birks &
Sons

Diamond Merchants

 

 
  
   

 

-|fax Rifles attached to the C.O.T.C.

iness management of various sports

FAVORITE
TEAM

 

 

FAMOUS FOR TASTE
AND MILDNESS

‘Buckin

CIGARETTES

Tye Be

 

The C.O.T.C. rifle team interested;ments and stands a good chance
Henry for two years, and this year |alsoto win the Spring title. Reardon
he is a 2nd Lieutenant in the Hali-|has a gold “D” for D. A. A.C. and.
Glee Club.

As anyone can see by reading his
record, Henry is a man of unbounded energy and ability, a true Dalhousian, a friend to’ everyone—a
fair and jus man is Reardon! At
the present time he is studying
medicine and in due time we shall
be proud to call him Dr. Reardon.
Good luck, Henry!

for training. Last year he was
President of the Glee Club and is to
be highly commended on his capable

management.

This year Henry is “the memberat-large” on the Students’ Council
and also a member of its executive.
He batted his way to the ping pong
championship in the fall tourna
Here’s Good News

For Music Lovers

All VICTOR RED SEAL
RECORDS are now selling at lower prices than
ever before.

Visit Phinney’s Record
Department today, and
listen to the music of
your favourite artists.

 

The Phinney Music Co., Ltd.

456 Barrington Street

 

 

OXFORD

Today and Saturday

“BOYS OF THE CITY”
and “GRAND OLD OPRY”

CAPITOL

THEATRE - HALIFAX

 

Today, Sat. and Monday

“Howards of
Virginia”
CARY GRANT and
MARTHA SCOTT

Monday and Tuesday

“FORGOTTEN GIRLS”
“MELODY AND MOONLIGHT”

Wednesday and Thursday
“OUR TOWN”
“’M NOBODY'S

SWEETHEART NOW”

 

ORPHEUS

Friday and Saturday
“SO YOU WON’T TALK”

“THREE MEN FROM TEXAS”
Monday — Tuesday — Wed.

“A NIGHT AT
EARL CARROLL’S”

0

Tuesday, Wed. and Thurs.

“Despatch from

Reuters

EDWARD G. ROBINSON
and EDDIE ALBERT

9

Ken Murray — Lillian Cornell
“QUEEN OF THE YUKON”
Irene Rich

 

 

   

GARRICK

CASINO

Broadway’s Musical Comedy
Success

“Too Many Girls”
with LUCILLE BALL

RICHARD CARLSON
ANN MILLER —- HAL LeROY

Friday and Saturday
“HE STAYED FOR
BREAKFAST”

Loretta Young - Melvyn Douglas
“RIVER’S END”
Monday and Tuesday
“PASTOR HALL”
“HULLABALOO”

Wednesday and Thursday
“NO TIME FOR COMEDY”
“LONE WOLF KEEPS DATES”

‘

 

|

 

 

: ey CH “FOR brid re! e

 
   
 
        

.

7 5

noe. Pkt
page ts ay: =:
ve
‘ =
i aren!

T As,
ty

if which are aimed at improving this little column, so send them

the

   

£

' iy

  
 
 

t before you will in a minute. We welcome any suggestions

 

* 6% * *

Bob Blois, manager of interfaculty sport, will open the
Interfaculty Hockey League at the Arena this evening. The
first game will see the Engineers hook up with the Dents. It

ineers can do as well in the hockey league as ghey have

been doing in the basketball league the other in the
league had better look to their laurels. ‘
With a little co-operation the league should have one of its

| ae most successful years because so many other activities have

= wo

ue

 

f
\

ia,
A

been curtailed, due to military training. The interfaculty manager would like all societies to co-operate to the fullest extent
and all prospective players should get in touch at once with
their respective managers. Pepa

At the hockey games this winter and also at the basketball game on Tuesday evening Dalhousians were conspicuous
by their absence. Dalhousie has a really good basketball team
this year and it is worthy of our support.

So far as hockey is concerned, it seems a shame that
where a relatively small college like St. Mary’s can get out a
veritable army of supporters Dalhousie can hardly get out
enough people to carry around a case of pop for the boys after
the game. It is quite true that the Arena is not the most comfortable place in the world to watch a game, but if people
think it is cold watching a game they should have the experience of getting ready for a game in one of the dressing rooms.
It’s colder in these than a pump-handle in December.

Sf 8, 3

Well, at long last Dalhousie has got itself a ping pong
association. Credit or blame for the organization must be
placed on the shoulders of that human dynamo, Colin Smith.
We are not sure exactly what you have to do to become a fullfledged member, but, according to Mr. Smith, you had better
all get in on it or take the consequences. The fact that it does
not cost a cent to become a member of the organization should
attract quite a number.

Colin has put the game this year in a sort of oxygen tent
and he promises that when spring-time rolls around all the
little Tigers will emerge raring to go, and the only thing you
will be able to hear in the gym will be the sound of those
elusive white globes bouncing to and from on the green hardwood

* * * *

Speaking again of the basketball game on Tuesday night,
the team looked impressive in their 1941 debut. Led by such
veterans as Cal Seaman, Ben Wilson, Mike Smith and Jerry
Martin, the Tigers should go a long way. However, a team
without support is like a man without legs—it doesn’t go very
far. So let’s all be out next Tuesday to see the boys in action.

Why do the Grads call themselves Dalhousie Grads?
Looking over the lineup we can only find two players who are
actually graduates of the University. Fans will remember
Doug Cameron, who this year is managing the Grads’ entry in
the city league. The “Camber” will be remembered as the

_ Sports editor of the Gazette last year.
* ae

hen |

by
fi}

i
i
,

sh
<)

ay

eT F,
A> ae
Bek

h oe

Dalhousie may have a skating rink before the season is
over if present plans can be finalized. Such a rink would undoubtedly be of great value to hockey as well as to the students who would have an opportunity for a whirl on the blades
when the spirit moved them. We should have more information on this project next week

 

  

LAW DEFEATS ENGINEERS

Led by Hutchins and MacRitchie,
= smooth-working Law quintet defeated Engineers on Monday night,
48—16. This game was featured by
the equal scoring of every member
of the Law team. Outstanding! for
the Engineesr was Jack MacKenzie.

Other games scheduled for the
evening were not played, due to inability of the other societies to
turn out enough players. It is
hoped that this will not be the case
in future games.

Lineups:

Law: Hutchins 16, MacRitchie 14,
Piercey 8, MacKimmie 2, Smith 8.

Engineers: MacKenzie 8, Graham
2, James 2, Brownhill 2, Vail 4.

Referee: Wilansky.

This Week In
Girls’ Sport

by M. MacKEIGAN

 

 
    

 

    
    
 
 
   
  
 
  

Basketball got away to a start
with a practice last Friday which
wasn’t too well attended. Regular
practices will be on Thursdays, 7.30
to 8 p.m., and Fridays, 5.30 to 7 p.m.

Supper is served in the Homestead after the Friday practices.
Come out now and get a few practices before the class league begins.

 

On Saturdays, from 11 to 2, there
will, be a gym class for all upperclass women who are interested.

 

 

The reception room of Shirreff
Hall has been obtained forthe Folk
Dancing on Tuesdays at 7.30. All
upperclass women interested are
cordially invited to attend.

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL
SCHEDULE

Jan. 20:
Eng. vs. Arts & Science, 7-8 p.m.
Law vs. Commerce, 8-9 p.m.
Med. vs. Freshmen, 8-9 p.m.

Jan. 27:
Med. vs. Law, 7-8 p.m.
Commerce vs. Eng., 8-9 p.m.
Freshmen vs. Arts & Sc., 8-9 p.m.

 

The Freshette gym classes are in
full swing again, so are the apparatus classes for any one who is interested in them. The latter are on
Mendays at 3.30, and Wednesdays
at 5 p.m.

 

 

NOTICE B-9745
Engineers play Dentistry inthe Telephone conversation:
first game of the Interfaculty “Hello.”
_ Hockey League on Friday, Janu- | “Hello.”
_ ary 17, at 7 p.m., at the Arena “Do you still love me?”
Rink, Everybody out! “Sure! Who is it?”

  

Well, here we go with a new column under a new name
__ and by a different writer, but even with that handicap we have
___ hopes that somebody will read it if just for the laughs. This
is our first attempt at such a column and if you didn’t know

 

In @ wide-open hockey match,
Tech defeated the Dalhousie sextet
at the Arena last night 3-0. The
Tigers played hard and showed their
old fighting spirit.

Midway through the first period,
Woods scored for Tech from a face

|off in front of the Dal net which

gave Bain Munro no _ chance.
Throughout the game Dal and Tech
were evenly matched with Tech
taking better advantage of their
scoring opportunities.

At the start of the second period,
Tech capitalized on a breakaway by
Flemming and West to make the
score 2-0. The Tigers rallied to
storm the Tech defence time and
time again. The new defense combination of MacDonald and Hotchkiss worked well and held back the
opposing forwards in a slam and
bang style so that Munroe had
fewer shots to handle than usual.
Just before the bell went to end the
second period, Tech sent five men
into the Dalhousie zone and despite
the desperate efforts of the Tigers
succeeded in putting the puck in the
net. However, Referee Beazley
ruled that this did not count as
George Corston was in the net and
that Tech should receive a penalty
shot.

 

TIGERS DOWN GRADS
IN BASKET OPENER

Seaman and MacKimmie Are High Scorers For Dal.
—Grad, Outclassed In Height and Fight.

Dalhousie Tigers dropped the Grads on Tuesday evening in the opening game of the City Senior Basketball

League by a score of 34—19.

chalking up 9 points for his team. “Clutch” MacKimmie ran

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Pucksters Win Hard-Fought Match From

‘Tigers Just Fail to Click
As Tech Scores 3 Goals

Dalhousie Defense Slowed Up Tech Forwards ©

i UE “x ter, oy Ia Ti) Rome et Pee ee Pee TA GeaT

 

January 17, 1941

Tigers

i ee

 

Dalhousie

 

 
 
  
  
  

Here's today's biggest Value in

pipe tobaccos. A fine quality
mixture—full of flavour— mild

and cool. Try a pipe today.

In pouches, packages and ' Ib. tins.

—

As soon as the two teams returned to the ice for the last period, the
penalty shot was taken and West
scored on a beautiful shot. The remainder of the game was a dingdong battle with both Dalhousie
lines playing all out but just failing
to click. Corston came very close
to scoring on a nice play by Dooley
MacIntosh and Marty MacDonald.
This line was outstanding throughout the entire game. Towards the
end Webby MacDonald, who had
been hitting every Tech man in
sight, received a penalty for trying

  

 

Dominion reducing the finameial responsibility of the provinces, while
leaving: them with the directien of
cultural affairs. Professor Bates
did not question the polities) advantages of such a scheme, but he did
affirm serious doubt in its eeemamic

SIROIS PLAN—

Continued from page one
evolution had increased the centralization of power with the Dominion
Government, political necessity required that the provinces must remain autonomous in some areas of

 

 

Ce tid. government. efficiency. “Do Canadians womt fedThe compromise adopted was to/|eral government, or just peed gov- 4
Scores: increase financial power with the | ernment?” was his parting «mention.

First Period

1. Tech—Woods 10.10 r — — ——
Second Period |

2. Tech—Flemming (West) 2.06
Third Period a

3. Tech—West (Penalty shot) 0.10 Evening Gowns Ne Sportswear

Lineups:

Tech: MacAulay, goal; Rose, Mil- |}
ler, Bulley, defense; Vaughan, West
Flemming, Nunn, Phalen, Dickie,
Kline, Cohen, Woods, forwards.

Dalhousie: Munro, goal; W. MacDonald, Hotchkiss, Langley, defense,
M. MacDonald, MacIntosh, Corston,
Blois, Doig, Kapak, Mullane, forwards.

Afternoon Dresses

Always something different at reasonable prices.

The Exclusive Style Centre

481-483 Barrington St. Halifax

Cal Seaman led the Tigers,

 

a close second with 5 points to his credit.

The first half opened slow with |
both teams looking for a break /} were pretty well distributed. Next
while marking their men Glonaty. |

Cal Seaman opened the scoring for

the Tigers when he scored on a pen-| with a total of 6. Lineup:

alty shot. It was only a matter of
seconds, however, before George
Blackadar put the Grads one up
when he dropped the ball neatly into the basket from a sharp angle.
For the rest of the half play continued pretty well balanced, with
the Tigers building up a slight lead.
The first half found the Grads on
the short end of 14—6 count.

Play speeded up slightly in the
second half with the Tiger sharpshooters putting on the pressure.

best shots of the night early in the
second half when he sent the ball
into the basket on a long shot. The
Grade were unable to cope with the
smart combination plays and fast
breakaways which kept them pretty
well on the defensive.

Snowden Johnson played a sparkling game for the Grads, chalking
up a total of 10 points for his team
and making him high scorer of the
game,

WINS D. S. C.—
(Continued ftom page one)

civilian clothes and buried their uniforms. Alec got most valuable information regarding the enemy
Dispositions and was guided to
Namsos, 70 miles away, and rescued.
Admiral Sir Roger Keyes mentioned
Alex’s exploits in parliament and took
him to London to meet the Commander-in-Chief. He is now an instructor (at 23 years of age). My
godson, Lt. John Crabb, R.N., was
shot down at Dakar. He is a
prisoner,
Best regards,
Yours,

(Sgd.) John Cameron.
*Lt. Alec Fraser-Harris is the son
of the late Dr. D. Fraser-Harris,
formerly Professor of Physiology in
Dalhousie University (1911 to 1924).

+ —--.

 

GREEN PASTURES
Secretary at Registration time:
“Have you a reservation?”
Freshman: “Do I look like an Indian ?”—Gateway.

 

C.0.T.C. ONLY
“Time to cuddle up, baby. There
goes the bugle.”
“Lights out?”
“Nope, call to arms.”
—Athenaeum.

 

Jack MacKenzie made one of the

Scoring honors for the Tigers

The Nova Scotia Technical College
Offers Engineering Courses

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Stadenis
To Daihousie Students with Engineering Diplomas '

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experiemec |

 

to Seaman, Lanky Ben Wilson gath- |
ered in the most points for his team

Dalhousie: Seaman 9; Martin 4;
MacKimmie 5; MacKenzie 1; MacLeod 3; Wilson 6; Smith 4; MacRitchie 2.

Grads: Campbell 3; Bauld, Stewart 1; Johnson 10; Blackadar 3;
Cameron 2; Stoddard, Turner.

Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, Presidext

 

 

 

      

M, LIMITED

DRUGGISTS

———.

REVUE OF REVIEWS—

(Continued from page one)

tacked, the eastern flank of the attack and the supply) lines through
Bulgaria would be seriously threatened from Turkey, who could not
be expected to stand idly by.

On the other hand, a German
drive to the Dardanelles would be
open to similar flanking action from
eastern Greece. In practice, the
theory, based on the natural advantages of geography, would have to
be carried out with the same speed,
spirit and strength that has characterized the co-operative campaign
in eastern Libya.

At this point I think it wiser
and safer to consider the past
rather than the future. Our abSorption in the present has prevented, for most of us, the interesting recollection that we presented Italy with the various territories from which we ‘are now
trying to drive her.

In the Treaty of London, 1915,
we bargained for Italy’s support by
promising her, among other things,
the outright ownership of the Dodecanese Island occupied since 1912,
a protectorate over Valona and its
hinterland, and an extension of her
colonial possessions in Africa, which
included Bardia and about half of
the present Libya.

 

    
 

Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

    
 

 

 

The
Maritime Furriers

Invite you to inspect
their new and varied
assortment in Fur
Coats and Evening
Wraps.

Hats made to order

ee

He—Will you kiss me?
She—No, I have scruples!
He—Oh, that’s all right; I’ve had

 

them twice. i: : re 3
—Gateway. ry A TS agent
; may
“Run upstairs and get my watch.” hb, mL}
“Wait awhile and it will run Tata a
down.”
“No it won’t. We have a winding
staircase.” ——Manitoban.

 

 

 
