   

  
   
 
   
 
 
   

HAWKINS AGAIN...

best of the legends arising

13 dea Sadie Hawkins Day

é held at “Alberta University was the
story of the co-ed who took her boy

acted in a perfectly

chivalrous way all evening.

one ee doors for him, helped
the street, and helped
coat on every occa“At LC end of the evening she
escorted him to his door, unlocked
it for him, and then kissed him
|-night.

And got slapped for being too
fresh!

Le

x *

TORONTO TINTYPES ...

_ Then at Varsity they’re telling the
story of a second year Arts student
who got under the influence one
night and started wandering around
the lobby of the Royal York, looking for a doggie he thought he’d
lost and announcing this fact in no
uncertain tones.

They got the manager out to calm
him finally, but his vision was a
little distorted by then and it took
three bell-hops to keep him from
leading the manager away at the

‘end of a leash.

eS es ae

MecGILL MONOGRAPH ...

The Arts students are getting it
in the neck all right. This one arrived home one afternoon to find a
message asking him to call Dolly S.
at a certain telephone number.

The poor boy called the number,
and when a doughty seafaring voice
answered he demanded to speak to
Dolly.

It took the skipper the best part
of ten minutes to convince the misguided lad that the Dolly S. was a
tug boat.

+e ¥ *
DALHOUSIE DILEMMA ..

Slightly purified, a story coming
from our own stamping grounds
goes like this:

It seems that in a certain residence some one was very careless
with a bottle of joy-juice, with the
result that there was glass and
liquid spread all over the floor.

Next day three students turned up
at the Health Clinic to have glass
splinters removed from their
tongues.

* * #

FINAL FLING ...

But the stories are all surpassed
by the one about the green C.O.T.C.
cadet on a certain unnamed campus
who struck up a conversation with
the colonel, thinking he was just another of the lads. - :

“Don’t mind me giving you a tip,”
said the cadet, “but y’know you'll
get hell if you show up on parade
without getting that hair of yours
cut!”

No, it wasn’t us, or we wouldn’t
be here writing.

 

Symphony Concert

Proceeds Turned In

Delta Gamma makes known the
result of its splendid effort to aid
the Red Cross. The Symphony Concert held last Sunday evening in the
Gym, featuring the music of the
Royal Canadian Navy Band in coordination with the Dalhousie Glee

Club, was responsible for a contribution of $200 being made to the
Canadian Red Cross Society.

 

ee Whenever I get down in the
I buy myself a new hat.

+ So that’s where you get
K.C.A, Academy M Mike.

VOL. LXXTII

FE Oucen's Students Honoured As

Governor-General Becomes Rector
Alma Mater Heads Make Appointment.

C.U:P.—Nov. 21—by Doug Wilson

The Governor-General of Canada
has accepted the Rectorship of
Queen’s University, according to an
announcement released yesterday by
H. J. Hamilton, Secretary-Treasurer
of the Alma Mater Society. The
appointment is the highest honor
within the power of the student body.
Appointment is made not by the

 

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 22, 1940

Holding ‘em Down

Ninety-fiveStudents
Under 1939 Total

 

Registration figures issued yesterday show a decrease of 95 from last
year’s attendance. Students enrolled

University authorities but by undergraduates through the Alma Mater
Society executive. The Rector’s
chief function is to deliver at some
time during his term of office an address to the student body. The
Governor-General succeeds the late| There are 53 fewer Arts and SciHon. Norman Rogers as Rector of | &nce students this year (482 total),
Queen’s. Following is the text of a approximately the same number of

letter received by the Alma Mater|Medicos (219); 30 Dentals, where
Secretary: | there were 36 in 1939, and 46 King’s

I am desired by the Governor- | Students where there were 58. FiftyGeneral to convey to you his 'six fewer new students arrived this
warmest thanks for so kindly in- |year t than last.
viting him to accept the rectorship As might be expected, the de-|
of Queen’s University. His EX-) pease in numbers was mainly among |
cellency is greatly honored to ac- Hie males, the distaff side numbered
cept, only 9 under the last year figure of
178 women enrolled.

this year total 778 as against 873
for last year. The Law school bore
the heaviest loss proportionately,
with its membership reduced from
73 to 61.

 

H. S. REDFERN,
Sec. to Governor-General.

 

 

DEBATERS TO MOUNT ALLISON |

eee

 

WALTER; GAUDET
The negative of the resolution “That higher citizenship can

‘ be produced by government legislation” will be propounded by
Messrs. King and Gaudet on Monday against a Mt. Allison team

TED KING

at the latter’s college. Sodales chose these men two weeks ago
to represent Dalhousie. Knowing they will do their utmost to
re-establish Dal’s declining reputation as a debating stronghold
we wish them well on their trip. Eileen Mader and Margaret |
Farquhar were scheduled to debate at Acadia Monday, but due to

the difficulty in agreeing on a date the event has been called off. |

:

a Moment Please.

Students’ Directory is obtainable now in limited numbers at the
Book Store; otherwise, obtain your issue from your class president.

Willie Kapak’s overcoat is missing. Will the pérson who stole it have
the will power to return it? Will’ee? We don’t know.

Record Concert will be held on Tuesday evening, 7.30 p.m., at the
residence of Mary Doull, 127 Coburg Road. Hear Beethoven’s 9th Symphony!

King’s College Student Body Dance on Tuesday was a colorful success. There were all jolly “mixers” from the first of the “formal” to
the last waltz, in spite of any prevailing tuxedo discomforts. That’s one
of the disadvantages of residence life.

The same Willie Kapak has been appointed photographic editor of the
Year Book If you want to have your artistry appear in 1941 Pharos, send
snaps of campus life to him at 28 Cedar Street, B-2880. |

Delta Gamma took another step in its fine benefit effort by staging an
informal dance at Shirreff Hall on Thursday night in aid of the Community Chest. Congratulations!

GRADUATING CLASS members are requested to get their photographs made at an early date for the Dalhousie Year Book. Climo’s,
Robert Norwood and Gauvin & Gentzell (see Student Directory advertisers
section) are authorized photographers for this photo.

Bulletins will be posted Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays on boards
in the Arts, Science, Library, Gymnasium and Forrest buildings. If you
have announcements to insert, contact Doug Mahon, 4 eae Street,

B-2625, by 6 p.m., day before publication.

}out at the grand meeting.

 

|
|

INEZ SMITH
President of the campus
terrible” of the year, Inez is having
plenty of fun keeping the Arts and |
Science Society from blowing a 0A |

“enfant

 

Nex
all the|
ironed |

over its financial troubles.
Thursday she hopes to have
club’s bothersome wrinkles

D.G. A.C. MEETING

Dal Girls Prepare
Folk Dancing Show
For Munro Day

Dalhousie girls gathered yesterday to plan extensive D.G.A.C. activities for the near future. President Carly Sullivan steered the
meeting through discussions on Badminton, Munro Day activities and
Ping Pong plans.

 

Marion Moore, reporting on investigations advised at the last meeting, announced that a badminton trip
is impossible this year. It was then
urged that the D.G.A.C. make an
especial effort to procure cups for
girl’s badminton. This matter is to
be taken up with the Student Council
at its next meeting. It was felt
that since the eighty dollars budget- |
ed for trips cannot be thus used, a
| part of it might be transferred to
D.G.A.C. for the purchase of cups.

The meeting evinced keen interest
in the project of Folk dancing for the |
| Munro Day program. Miss Wray
ead the plan under consideration, which includes an historic review of the development of dancing,
beginning with that of the early
Greeks, and tracing its course up
through the ages to modern times.
This would include a few typical
folk and country dances of various
peoples and periods.

(Continued on Page Four)

 

UNDELAYED ACTION

London, Eng. (BUP)—Members of
a unit whose job is the removal of
unexploded bombs from _ places
where they could cause damage if
allowed to explode, were dealing
with a delayed action bomb.

One of the crew had been lowered
by ropes into the deep cavity where
the bomb had fallen. He sat astride
the bomb, which was liable to explodq at any minute, and began removing its fangs.

Suddenly he shouted: “Get me out
of here.”

His comrades anxiously hauled
him up—dn record time —and, as
they got ready to run, asked breathlessly what was the matter.

Pointing to the bottom of the tunnel, he said: “There’s a ruddy big
rat down there.”

No. 8

Arts and Science
Propose Changes

Executive to Submit Plans Thursday.

A strenuous meeting of the Arts and Science Society
executive on Wednesday evening served to thrash out further the difficulties in which it finds itself in relation to the
classes of Studley. They put their heads together in an
effort to achieve an understanding with all students econcerned, and to see the society function in the future as it
should have in the past.

 

—® The meeting functioned vigorously, and among those present were
Daphne Christie, Bain Munro, Inez
Smith, Chris Arklie, John MaclLellan, Alec MacIntosh, Frank Johnson and Dot Graham (representing
Commerce), and Mary MacKeigan.

Next Thursday, 28th, the all-im| portant meeting will be held in‘the
'Chemistry Theatre at noon.
As a result of Wednesday even‘ing’s discussion, a proposed financial settlement with the classes has
been drawn up. Your imterests
|($$$) are at stake, consequently it
is not necessary to coax you to the
Seience Building.

In addition, a set of proposed
|amendments will be presented, with

 

FRESHMAN MAKES 66
HOUR RECORD SPEECH
(Reprinted from McGill Daily)
An Alabama freshman, Edward
Devlin, made. a marathon campaign speech of 64 hours and 15

minutes in favour of President
Roosevelt. The 19-year-old student had intended to carry on for
another five hours but an early
morning rain forced him from
the steps of the Alabama Union
building.

Devlin said that he decided to
make the speech supporting Mr.
Roosevelt because felt that
Democratic campaign workers
“were becoming too confident,

he

and I wanted the New Deal to ||the possibility of later being adoptwin’’. led, subject to the approval of the
The student’s voice cracked to || students next Thursday at twelve

a whisper towards the end and a
loud speaker system was install
|o’elock noon.

 

 

 

 

ed. He subsisted on fruit juices ————————
and coffee as he went into the
home stretch. Much of the speech I V C F Plans
consisted in reading the plat- = > ;
, m P Fireside Meet
forms of both parties. |
: ae | Few students know that for alDal Effective |most two years a society for Chris" tian Fellowship has been in exist‘Speaking Club ence at Dalhousie-King’s. It is
2 le
The club met last week under} known as Inter-Varsity or LV

|It meets regularly in Room 4 of ¢he
Pros: Allan Soastes., Com, 241. | Arts building on Thursday at 1.45.

Vice-Pres: Eleanor Taylor, Pre Law| The society is undenominational..

Sect’y-Treas.: Colin Smith, Arts 743. | and the meetings are usually addressed by special speakers. These

are usually chosen from the clergy
of the city.

Plans are being made for a fireside meeting around the end of the
month, at which time our field secretary, Miss Patricia Lister, will

the following new executive:

The president outlined the aims of
the society and emphasized the great
need for better orators at Dalhousie.
He pointed out that a students’ degree (potential or otherwise) would
only prove a liability and constant
cause of nervousness if one could not
speak effectively. To overcome ents| if us.

 

the President invites all students} If any further information is deinterested, to their next meeting on| sired, get in touch with Harry HilMonday next at 7.15 p.m. in the Arts| | chey, President, or Dorothy Hunter,
scunieradt ' B- 2059, SOCTetaEy

 

 

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

 

 

SHOULD LATIN BE REQUIRED FOR B.A.?

We know you’ll immediately say we only asked two people when we
announce the result here as 50% for and 50% against. That would, however, be very unfair. The average college student, who may have the
privilege of answering questions for this column once every few weeks
(or possibly twice the same morning) can have no idea of the work which
it necessitates to the staff. It was interesting to note that at the Forrest
Building 61% were for the compulsory class, 29% against, while at Studley
40% were for and 60% against. Even at Studley many of the affirmative
votes were from engineers and upperclassmen. This shows a very general
agreement that it’s a good thing to make someone else work.

SHOULD BRITISH BOMB CIVILIANS?

Although a poll recently conducted in England failed to reveal a
majority in fayour of bombing non-military objectives, 58% of the
students of a university situated in a particularly exposed Eastern Canadian port, think that such action would be desirable. 35% were entirely
against it, while 5% more were of the opinion that it ought to be done
if there were more planes. One person, a former Gazette Editor, said
it wasn’t a realistic question.

HOW PRONOUNCE DIPO?

The vexed question of how the glorious word DIPO should be
pronounced is at last settled. By the conclusive vote of 60% of the
people of Dalhousie (who were asked) this column is to be known as
Dip-o or Dippo. 13% more strenuously supported Dipe-o, one or two even
threatening to withdraw their subscription to the Gazette if this was not
followed. 5% wanted Depot, like a railway station. 13% more don’t
pronounce it at all, don’t read it, and one person just calls it by its
initials. Good night.

cos ss Ss =
Perro! ee iyi

 
       
    
    
      
       
    
 
     
     
     

 

din any. column of THE GAZETTE are those of the author; it cannot
hey represent the opinion of the Student Body.

rds Printing ve ers 54 Argyle street, Halifax, N, S.

  
    
  
 

Since joining the group of Dalhousie students and undertaking to
participate in various campus activities I have been keeping both eyes
opon for evidence of interest in the
fine arts. I have found a satisfying
number of people really interested

 
    
 

    
    

FINE ARTS AT DALHOUSIE

terest in painting, sculpture and
architecture has been lacking only
since the course in Fine Arts, which
included a study of these three, has
been discontinued. At any rate, no
effort is being made to foster the
cultivation of some appreciation of

  
  

. Serer Phe

NA BENSON :
ARE GRAHAM, PENNY PAT

S
s Manager:: MARY JOHNSON |

ey | REPORTERS
fs ‘Bill Ferguson, Howard Gordon, Mar: MacKeigan
Senet Jean F ey, Jean Weinstein.

H

 
 

re?

ABOUT THE BUDGET

“DIO” last week indicated such a strong feeling of disisfaction with dividends from the Students’ Council ticket
ves stment to date that a few words re Council Finances may
a in place.
___ Latest reports available indicate that, due to reduced reg_ istration of students, the Council funds will be down something
like e $1,000 from last year. Moreover, returns from the gate
receipts committee forecast that 1940-41 will be a poor year
for this source of income which usually goes a long way to
defraying football costs at least.
_ Nonetheless, the average payee of ten dollars these davs
rightly expects ta get more tangible returns from his capital
_ than the Dalhousie student body member has to date. So far
he has been privileged to attend two football games, one dance
and one Glee Club Show. The season’s first game cost him
ae cents (Red Cross benefit), while the Caledonia game cost
him a dime — and this while plenty of citizens apparentiv
ri sneaked in free—and the subsequent tea dance (without tea)
_ gouged him for an extra 25 cents. In fairness to the Council
ne should be observed that Caledonia had to be paid $225, plus
oe of the gate receipts, which made the game a financial
_ venture, but that is the Council’s concern, and the student still
_ wants his money’s worth.
Now the moral of all this, as we see it, is that if the fifteen
_ Stewards of the exchequer have to operate student affairs on
a reduced budget this year, the retrenchment should be made
in a manner that will spread the reduction in activities evenlv

nearly $650 to feed the football and basketball “teams and
— Glee Club at their practices. This year, despite the greatly

will be very substantially eut down. Last year, according to
some reports at least, the usual waste in Glee Club properties
was repeated. This year, the day after the first show there
ie: _ were props lying about the stage where anyone could appro_ priate them. This is not to complain about money spent on
sports or dramatics, for it is important to keep these activities
if Tas to a good standard. But it is to object to money being careae? ee Nacted just because it seems easy to get from the Council.
Bi ks point we are trying to make is that the more money spent
bhi on unnecessary meals or properties the less value remains to go
ee ack to the student in free games and shows.

 
 

  

  

      
 
 
 
 
    
      
    
    
    
        
      
        
     
       

  

  

  

  

ns fa

) a.
a:
at ie f

ft hah

        
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
  

  

  

tt The responsibility this year devolves on all the executives
_ of campus organizations who have money to spend. The facility
_ with which orders are made and cash is handed out at this
college is almost a by-word with those who come here from
_. other universities. With more careful handling of our funds
_ by business managers, more insistence on economy by coun___ gillors—and by economy we mean not stinginess but reduction
of wastage—there can be more free functions for the ordinary
' eontributor to Council funds to attend. And some day, if we
. arn to husband our resources properly, we may even build
_ that reserve into a fund big enough to start a residence or a
union building with. But the leakages and the unnecessary
‘ - expenditures will continue as long as this free and easy attitude
a _ to executive responsibilities persists.

INDIGO
. British journals, at their worst far brighter in content
than most Canadian ones, are especially interesting in these
aa as varied reactions to the bombing terror are illustrated.
Lord Ponsonby, eminent author of “Falsehood in Wartime” and
‘ ‘a ‘ “ steaks re-organization exponent, responds in a mood indigo
Bete Tease realistically, to suggestions for the building of a more
yee.” eautiful London when quiet returns. His article, a letter to
. editor of The New Statesman and Nation, is entitled
¢ ROGLODYTE ARCHITECTURE”.
. _ Sir,—The interesting review in your issue of September 21, on
_ “The Rebuilding of London After the Great Fire”, by J. F. Reddaway,
Jed me to wonder whether Sir Christopher Wren and his fellow
architects would have put pencil to paper had they felt that in a few
years there would be another Great Fire. Are we to invite Sir Edwin
a uityens and other distinguished architects to set to work to design
nae buildings and plan new streets for the extensive areas of London
hie will be in ruins at the end of this war?
_ Surely we know that whatever may be decided when the war is
on uded, our present rulers will certainly not propose disarmament.
On the contrary, the successes of our Air Force, which are likely to
_ continue to be established, will induce them further to strengthen our
air arm and take advantage of every new device which may be in5 vented in order to give us (of course for Defence) a more powerful
yi air force, which must surpass in numbers and quality that of any
ye. na other nation, In fact another war is a practical certainty not many
EY enact
: Peat ibiscakt inn: on rebuilding London, therefore, are quite beside, the
Rye iar eee they are confined to planning new homes, offices,
che: s, chapels, shops, factories, libraries and museums underground.
will give a chance for originality; and we might have some parks
round as a setting for the few buildings which still remain. —
wi eee well ai oak ie desecration of the life of man might

 

  

 

tg) "=

 
  

ay wt

:
f
a

he

ei

1

 
 
   

te

},
t

      
   
   
      

  

_ PONSONBY.

 
 

in poetry, not only among those
whose courses of study include English II and such classes, nor only
among those whose academic forte
is English literature, but in every
particular branch of university
studies there are those who know
poetry, who appreciate its aesthetic
appeai and enjoy reading and hearing it.

There is, so far as I know, only
one formal group of students, one
Dalhousie women’s club, that devotes a part of its time annually to
extra-curricular reading and discussion of poetry. There are, however,
many small and intimate groups
wherein the “interplay of ideas and
exchange of views’’—to quote from
Glynn Firth’s letter in last week’s
Gazette—springs from an interest in
poets and poetry.

There are even those among the

which is published in this column.
“A vein of poetry exists in the
hearts of all man” and the active interest in the art shown among Dalhousians proves that they are no exceptions.

Music.

is somewhat similar to that for
poetry. Each year a class of students elect a music course as one
credit for their degrees, which indicates that there are among us, other |
than music students, who are Dtious
to learn something about this fine
art. There are also groups of men
and women on the campus who
gather from time to time to hear
recordings of fine music. And there
are many who enjoy music discussions.

A paltry amount of good music is
offered to Dalhousie students. The
recent symphonic program sponsored
by Delta Gamma is the first concert
of its kind given on the campus for
several years. It was not well patronized by the student body, for the
bulk of us have little opportunity to
reveal or cultivate a taste for anything finer than “sweet and swing”’.

Periodically some enthusiast attempts to organize a choral society
or an orchestra, and the attempt
meets with failure. The pity is that
lack of facilities for these organizations rather than lack of interest
among the students scotches such
efforts.

Dalhousie is the only Maritime
university whose choral club is
passé. I intend no unkind criticism
of the Glee Club activities, but the
music habitually included in_ its
shows is of lower quality than it
need be to satisfy the tastes of student audiences.

Architecture.

Hegel groups the fine arts according to their power to satisfy the
aesthetic needs of mankind in this
order: poetry, music, painting, sculpture and architecture. The first two
of these are -included among Dalhousie interests, but the others seem
to be almost completely ignored. I
say “almost completely” because
there is a very interesting and enjoyable-lantern Jecture in the Chem.
Theatre each year on the development of cathedral architecture during
the Middle Ages. Only the privileged few of Dr. Wilson’s first class
in European history are invited by
him to hear the lecture and usually
a number of them who are interested
are not able to attend for one reason
or another. Dr. Wilson makes this
event such that it is attractive to all
university students who have any
interest in learning the characteristics of Romanesque and Gothic
architecture. !

It seems that there is a very close
relationship between the fine arts
which are included in Dalhousie
courses and those which are evidently of interest on the campus.
Perhaps the underlying reason for
the unbidden enthusiasm in poetry
and music is that these are included
in university classes. Perhaps in
students who expend some time and
energy in writing poetry, some of

The case for music on the campus!

     

painting or sculpture.

Painting.

We become interested in paintings
by looking at pictures. I believe
there are only two places on the
campus where one may look at pictures, the Provincial Archives building and the Senate*room of Macdonald Library. Neither of these
places affords an opportunity for the
development. of art appreciation.
The majority of pictures hung there
were not created to be works of art,
but rather to record Nova Scotia and
its people more or less accurately for
the benefit of Nova Scotians.

Material for the study of neglected arts can be found at Dalhousie,
which are available in our Library
for in addition to various books
“a well equipped library and many
valuable photographs, color prints
and engravings have been presented
by the Carnegie Foundation for the
use of this (the Fine Arts) class.”
Surely there is some way to make!
this fine collection available at least
in part to students who are no
dJonger given a chance to register for
| the Fine Arts class.
cessful plan for such cultural development is carried out at Toronto
| University which might well be or| ganized at Dalhousie.
|
art of all ages. It seems that this
centre of learning, Dalhousie University is missing a splendid opportunity to contribute to the cultural
advancement of Canadians when it
provides no facilities for increasing
our knowledge of painting.

This art lives on the patronage of
the people and unless people are
trained to appreciate and support
their artists the fine beginning
Canada has made in the field may
bear no more worthwhile fruit. If
we believe with William Blake that
“nations are destroyed or flourish in
proportion as their poetry, painting
and music are destroyed or flourish”
this question of cultivation of the
fine arts on the campus becomes im
portant and even vital to us all.
; L. E. B.

Other opportunities for seeing fine
paintings could be made available to
| university students.
| ready some men and women on the
campus who atend the periodical exhibitions of the Nova Scotia College
of Art. More students might be
able to take advantage of them if
they were nearer the campus or even
if they were better advertised. Dalhousians need not depend entirely on
the local college for the opportunity
to see pictures, for®the National
Gallery at Ottawa and the Royal
Canadian Academy of Art at Toronto
have been endeavouring for a number of years to engender an interest
in art among Canadians.

I recall a very fine travelling exhibition made possible by these organizations which was responsible.
for awakening considerable interest
in painting in a small Nova Scotian
town. To the best of my knowledge
such exhibitions are still available.

Canada’s Painting.

Canada’s poetry consists of more
or less individualized imitations of
the parent British music. Canada’s
music is rare, and relatively unknown, but Canada has produced an
indigent style in painting which is
symbolic of the country. No great
art is confined within the borders of
one country, but the Canadian school
of landscape painting, like the historic Flemish school, gives expression to the essence of the native
spirit and culture. A. H. Robson
writes, “Canadians may well be
proud of the progress and attainments of our painters. We have a
vital and vigorous landscape art that
compares favorablys with the contemporary work of other countries,
and an intelligent and sympathetic
appreciation would benefit alike our
art and our national progress.” We
cannot truly appreciate Canadian art
until we have had the opportunity
to learn something about the finest

A very suc-|

There are al-)

| _ $1.00 sends 300
CHESTER igarotie °$1.00. wil
cigarettes or $1.00 wi
oh either 1 of OLD VIRGINIA
pe tobacco or a Ib. of Set
CAPORAL FINE CUT (with Vi
papers) toCanadiansservinginC.A. fr

overseas only.

$2.50 sends 1,000 _
cigarettes to an individual or unit.

Address ‘‘Sweet Caps,"’
P.O. Box 6000, Montreal, P.Q.

  

 
 
    
  
          
         
         
    
      
  
         
         

*“Lost your temper ?”
“No, my Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

| Farmers’ Milk 1s

| RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME
| YOU’LL LIKE IT.

Sa”

 

| FARMERS’ LIMITED

HALIFAX

NOVA SCOTIA

|
|
|

BLAKELEYS

i

|| After any Show
or

Before any Meal WELCOME

TO

Think of DALHOUSIE
The

Green Lantern

Cl

 

 

The National Fish Company, Limited

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
NOVA SCOTIA

HALIFAX

 
     
  
 

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

  
      
 
     
    
      
   
      
 
 
    
     
  

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

  

Arts and Science Faculty

| Degrees: B.A., B.Sc.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of cece standing, leading to degrees of
» M.Se.

Courses preparatory to ‘Profeustonal Faculties,
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.
The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

  
     

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men,

  
 
  
  

ye ee

i
Pe
i

1
ita?

   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 

we shall take the opportunity of in
_ troducing her.

Joan Sylvia Blackwood, B.A., was
born in Glace Bay, N. S. Since her
arrival at Dalhousie in 1937 Joan has
undoubtedly been not only one of the
‘most active co-eds on the campus
but also a most active student.

During her three years “Blackie”
did so many things and belonged to
so many societies that one must just
enumerate them. On the Students’
Council Joan was not only Arts and
Science representative, but also 2nd
Vice-President of the Council and a
member of its executive. Delta
Gamma claimed her for secretary one
year and president the next.

The Gazette has profited by having her as Exchange, then Feature
Editor and last year as Co-ed editor.
The year book editor selected Joan
as his Associate and she also wrote
“Class Prophecy.”

The Glee Club is yet another field
where “Gloomytrees” has scored. In
all, she has up to date, been in five
plays—a Munro Day Show, “Twelfth
Night”, a Freshman show and two
one-aet plays. Dame Rumour has it,
that this year, once again “Blackie”
has a leading role in the three-act
play.

Our basketball team would never
have been complete in the last three
years without Joan. In 40 she was
captain of the team. Badminton
also claimed her for its team in
*B9 and ’40.

Besides all this Joan found time
to be a member of the Midlothian
Society and the Gymnasium Committee.

Looking at this record of accomplishments is it any wonder that last

_ year the Students’ Council announced

“We, the students of Dalhousie have
seen and appreciated her unselfish
and efficient service to the University, and now express our appreciation in the best way we know”.
The best way being none other than

the “Malcolm Honour Award”, the;

highest honour that can be awarded
to a Dal. student.

This year “Blackie” is taking
education and once again we are relying on her dependability and ever
gracious manner in more than one
task. Come May, Joan will step out
into the ranks as a teacher, hoping
to fulfill her ambition to teach

_ English.

This week while our feature editor |
is out in the country teaching school | Shaggy’s Shaggy Bulletins Unlim
SCREW, or WHO BOARD THE
BULLETIN GRANPAW?

While Lester de Pester, whose entire stock of effervescence was whistling out through the apertures left
in his person by Major Hokum’s
Bayonet Boosters Inc., was slowly
deflating on the basketball floor,
Shaggy Mad’un, without even pausing to pronounce the latter dead,
was happily posting notices of his
funeral.

Having pasted up the doors of
King Karl’s office and Binnet’s registration booth with his weird posters, he now proceeded to emblazon
his announcements in red paint on
the roof of the Science edifice, interrupting the reveries of passers-by
with impossioned appeals to learn
what’s goin’ on at Dalhousie via

ited.

Meanwhile Rufus Rayne had set
forth with his newly acquired friend,
Willie Gaychap, with the intention
of making more history. Gaychap,
who is a devil at all times, was explaining the details of a plan whereby the Artz & Seances Club could
be transformed into the Nova Scotia
Legislature, thereby projecting Ignatz Schmidt into world politics and
making the future of democracy a
very interesting matter indeed.

Rayne, however, was paying little
attention to the elaborations of his
frendish fiend, his mind being somewhat distracted by the spectacle of
Patchy Pannell, who was wheeling
a bathtub full of boiled medicos up

Morris Street, shouting, “One a
penny, two a penny, Red Cross
buns, folks—gettum while they’re

hot.”
Misscarriage of Justice.

At that moment pandemonium,
which had been confined for some
time, broke loose and out of the
doors and windows of the Deadwood
Building poured Law students by |
the minion, one and all red of eye |
and claw, brandishing gin bottles
and other varieties of torts and|
making straight for the innocuous
little Willie Gaychap.

Wubber Mactunnelled made the
capture and held the harrassed cap-|
tive down with one of his number |
nineteen militaries, while Frankfor-|
ter, who had lagged considerably be- |
hind, due to an innate distate for al- |
most any form of physical activity,
came puffing and blowing up to the
scene of the apprehension, dragging
behind him a large scroll of parchment, from which he commenced
shortly to read in sepulchural tones
grave charges of misconduct.

Upon the arrival of Hateful Clutchins with the library’s entire stock
of legal phraseology, outworn and
otherwise, Pickleson Pete dismounted from hig ermine draped bicycle, |
donned a 1940 model peruke, woven)
of slightly human hair, donated by
Robert Wheezemore, and called om
inously for the criminal.
* % *

 

 

 

Can Gaychap laugh this one off?
Will Pickleson Pete justice mercy
with temper? Will the gentle Rayne
from heaven salvage his genial pal
from hell?

 

scholastic career Joan, and _ best

Congratulations on a successful! wishes towards your future one !!

 

 

 

eee

The
Pig Sty

 

 

Why was “Mae” Johnson so
burned up at the Med. Ball? Was it
her natural fervor, or did somebody
mistake her for an ash tray. With
these modern dresses temptation is
sometimes very strong.

* * *

Bonnie Lindsay just got under the
rope this Leap Year. Did Art fall
or was he pushed?

ve * %% * Joan Moon’s imitation of a men
tally deficient Mouse was appreci
 

wonder who will miss him the most,
“Kissy” or Phil?
¥ Bd *
Our democratic Major graced the
Ball with his presence, and was ac- |
corded a hearty welcome.

THE RECRUITING OF DAN Mc-©———

 

1 |
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

"NONSENSE 'N STUFF

The
Third Estate

Ey
Why Do You Read The Gazette?
John Barret, Science:

I don’t know. I always read the
front page, Rufus Rayne, and the
Pig Sty, of course, but I don’t know
why unless it is for want of something better to do in the lab on
Friday afternoons.

Florence MacDermid, Freshette:

I read the headlines on the front
page just to see what’s going on,
and then I turn to Who’s Who. I
like to look at the pictures.

Tommy Wilansky, Science:

For the general psychological
benefits that accrue therefrom, —
such as a feeling of superiority when
{ read some of the articles.

Henry Reardon, Medicine:

(Cautiously after a lengthy pause)
I can’t say just why I read it. But
I do every week. Say, I’ll tell you
why every student reads it. First,
to learn the gossip, then to read the
student news and finally to ascertain
student opinion (if any).

Helen Parker, Arts:

For curiosity, mostly; and for relaxation in the library on Friday
afternoons.

Eileen Mader, Science:

I, read it so as to know all that
is going on around the campus and
to learn what has been done at meetings and functions I have been unable to attend. I like to know all
the gossip and stuff, you know.

 

 

The dean

he stuck his finger

out

and pointed it at me
and sed

in fashion quite devout
you’re flunking bad

I see;

and then he shook

his index digit
underneath my nose
and sed that he was hurt
and shocked

at what

my grades disclose;
and then

he sed with wringled frown
my lad,

look here

you must bear down
and soi gathered up
my pluck

and sed

i can’t,

i ain’t no duck.

—Auburn Plainsman.| Streit’s

And then there was the little
Egyptian girl who got pickled one
night and now she’s a mummy.

—U. W. O. Gazette.

W.C.T.U. Worker — You drunken
beast. If i were in your condition
I’d shoot myself.

Just A Wee Bit Stinko—Lady, if | attempt to free the world from war

you wash in my condition, you’d mish |

yourself.”
—U. W. O. Gazette.

Frosh—I’m just crazy about you.
You’re the most beautiful gal I have
ever met. Do you know what that
means ?

Freshette—Sure. You’re going to|

run out of gas, the engine is going
to stall and you’re going to be disappointed,

—U. W. O. Gaxette.|

Then there is the fair damsel at!

Shirreff Hall who wants to know

how not (?) to get into the Pig Sty.

Frankly, Puss, we wouldn’t know,
* * »

Has Mary MacKeigan gone on

 

 

 

NEGRO SCULPTURE ©

AHEAD OF ENGLAND?’S | really felt the pressure of the C.O.

An interesting

“Ubyssey”,
Columbia’s semi-weekly:

“Negro sculpture is far superior
to anything civilized England has
yet produced,” John Shadbolt, of
the Vancouver Art School, told a
group of art admirers, at noon
Wednesday in the Library Art
Room.

The unusual appearance of
Negro masks and images is due
to a difference in the attitude of
these primitive people to art expression. Their figures, and especially the faces, are stylized, he
explained.

|

 

It is often said that primitive
artists display a sad deficiency of
a sense of proportion. Mr. Shadbolt refuted this by saying that
proportion to them is subordinate
to the conceptional meaning.

 

The influence of these uncivilized
sculptors on contemporaries like
Picasso, Modiglani, Derain, and
Henry Moore was next discussed.
Moore, one of the most influencial
of present day sculptors, uses
stones he finds at the seashore for
his beginning; then he follows up
this shape much as poets now
write their personal associations.
The result, as with Negro sculpture, is comparable to the work
produced by: deaf and blind children, who ignore detail naturally
unknown to them.

Mr. Shadbolt concluded with the
reasons for the greatness of Negro
sculpture. The Negro sculptor
was not self-conscious, he had no
sense of time, and he conceived
the various parts in terms of
domes and cylinders.

Anglo-American
Union Proposed

Permanent peace will never exist,
claims American Playwright Robert
Sherwood, unless a success union be
formed between the British Commonwealth and the United States. He
| Stresses that a closer interweaving
|of thought and action among the
English-speaking peoples is necesSary to guarantee the continuation of
freedom as a common purpose. The
' peace of a British victory, Mr. Sher| wood warns, will again be ineffective
if Britain and America fail to unite
ine follow up that victory with the
enforcement of a permanent peace.

Robert Sherwood ‘is noted for his
Pulitzex prize winners, “Idiot’s Delight” and “Abe Lincoln in Illinois,”
and for his ability as a spokesman
for the Council for Democracy. His
plan for union which appeared in the
last issue of “Life” is a modern proposal similar to that of Clarence
“Union Now.” A _ central
government located in America, with
proportional representation of each
state, would serve to link the people

together under a common Bill of}.
| Rights.

Independence of action
would, however, be continued by each
|state, The purpose of the union
| would be to work toward the es
 

ern of a more perfect de
mocracy, a democracy which would

and slavery.

Mr. Sherwood points out that
wherever Hitler has gone liberty has

| ceased, and wherever the British flag

| has gone liberty has flourished. A
|continuation of that same liberty in
the United States, it is argued, is
dependent on a British victory in the
|present war. It is therefore America’s duty to form an alliance with
Britain. Together they must not only
put down Hitler, but what is more
important, keep down all future Hitlers. Mr. Sherwood advocates that
“union” is the most logical and effective method of carrying out the

 

latter.

The plan for union offers to us the

We al- Leave” from the Navy, or has the| encouragement that-at least “some”

ways knew he had a tender “spot” Navy taken its leave of Mary. Per-| Americans are replacing the long
for the boys.

* * *

What men’s residence on Tower
Road recently had a severe epidemic
of measles started by a certain red
a

everyone. “Korky” ought to; head? We hear that a certain brili + xe Lg hia par excellence fumigated his room
e - ’em - and - leave -.’Em|against this dreaded disease. By the
as really left this time. Wei way, Tommy, how’s Ruthie?

liant mathematician and tuba-player|earlier start.

haps she follows the example of
brother Don.
t #£ *

Why was what “Eternal Freshman” with which “Chris Arkley” at
what Delta Gamma dance, instead of
what “Itch”’?. Maybe he got an

* * *

Question of the Week. Did you
“ask” or were you “took”?

  

=
re

ise +

clung-to ideas of isolationism with
those of co-operation and combined
action. Mr. Sherwood’s proposed
union: is based on a British victory
and can be put to the first test at the
peace settlement following the present war. Canadians, too, are a part
of the plan for union. We should
examine the proposal for its worth
and possibilities.

—U. W. O. Gazette.

item concerning
Art appeared in a recent issue of
University of British

 

a Eee

 

Page Three

plans for the Boilermakers’ Ball. As
usual it will be the second Friday
after New Year’s. Every effort is
being made to get the Navy’s twelve
piece band. '

To the Engineers: “Don’t miss
the meeting that will be held soon
to discuss plans.”

mi ae

40 BEERS

For the first time the Engineers

T.C. They don’t mind missing the
odd class for the C.O.T.C., but when
it began to make their trip to Liverpool impossible, it started to hurt.

They could have gone if the department had said it was a practical
part of the course, but they knew
and we knew we wanted to see more
than the Mersey plant.

We just heard some cheering
news. “Censored”. Just let the air
out of “censored’s” tires. I guess
someone really wanted to go on
the trip.

* * x

The boys have decided on a new
design for their pin, the main reason being that the old one resembles the Delta Gamma, which
might cause some confusion.

* * “

Dalhousie Trays

For a pleasing and lasting
gift for either sex, we suggest the Dalhousie Tray.

Of fine silver plate, it is
14 inches in diameter, and
has an etching of the MacDonald Memorial
in the centre.

Stanton is up to his old tricks and
is now keeping himself amused by
stealing all the thumbtacks in sight.
He had a field-day not long ago, although he almost got the “gate”.
Must be nearly time for him to pat
the dog. Time marches on.

oa bg x .

Colin “Tiger” Smith, according
to latest reports, is still looking
for his drafting board. How can
he spare the time away from his
notice boards?

Library

Our next big business is forming
Price $5.00
|

Henry Birks &
Sons

Diamond Merchants

 

   

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS

    
 

Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

    
 

 

 

 

OXFORD

Friday and Saturday
“IT’S IN THE AIR”
“LOVE, HONOUR AND
O BABY!”

CAPITOL
THEATRE —- HALIFAX

ea eee

    
  
  
 

Monday and Tuesday

Today — Saturday - Monday “STRANGE CARGO”
Joan Crawford — Clark Gable

“IN OLD MISSOURI”

Wednesday and Thursday

“SWANEE RIVER”
Alice Faye — Don Ameche

“FUGITIVES from JUSTICE”

ORPHEUS

Today and Saturday
“KIT CARSON”
“ONE CROWDED NIGHT”

Monday — Tuesday — Wednes.
“GIRLS OF THE ROAD”

  
 

‘They Drive By Night’

HUMPHREY BOGART
ANN SHERIDAN
GEORGE RAFT

  
   
 

 

  
    
      

  
 

       
 
 

Tuesday -— Wednes. -— Thurs.

 
   
       
      
   

“Lucky Partners” Ann Dvorak
GINGER ROGERS Oe WAR
ursday

 
 

RONALD COLEMAN

 
 
 

“SECRET SEVEN”

“FIVE LITTLE PEPPERS
IN TROUBLE”

 
      

 

GARRICK

Today and Saturday
“SEA HAWK”
“DULCY”
Monday and Tuesday
“MY LOVE CAME BACK”

and “DR. CHRISTIAN
MEETS THE WOMEN”

Wednesday and Thursday

“IRENE”
“MEN AGAINST THE SKY”

CASINO

Starting Saturday

    
  
  

    
     
 

Brigham Young

TYRONNE POWER

LINDA DARNELL .
BYRON DONLEVY

  

 
 

 

 

 

 

wise, go Brylcreem-ize

Hair like a haystack always rates a laugh, yet it’s so easy to have
that well-groomed look. BRYLCREEM—

Q Reape stubborn hair soft, in place
all day, but never ‘‘greasy”’.

@ Revitclizes the scalp, restores embarrassment.
lustre and sheen to dry, lifeless @ Fights off baldness; encourages
hair. luxuriant hair growth.

@ Checks annoying dandruff
and falling hair; avoids

Brylcreem is the Empire’s first choice hair dressing tonic; over
18,000,000 tubes and jars sold yearly. Get the new 25c size tube
from your dealer today. For extra economy buy the big 50c tube
er jar. Money-back guarantee.

BRYLCRE EM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING TONIC

No Alcohol—No Gum—No Starch—NoSoap  POcLuOL

 

 

    
   
   
    
   

 

 
 

BY DON

Bey ath bi aghtnt notie
npetition when they go on the

; either St. Mary’s or Tech

viee League Series.

i; me i Taal Gis "Gach: Sots wt: their
Se
:

good defence prospects.
have not last year’s
quad e prospective forward lines
are already getting into shape.
‘ es ‘thei light and fast forSt. Mary’s are reported as
ye an experienced defence with
the and two defencemen from

  
 
   
 

Bf _ year’s squad turning out for
this does not say that Dal can
| ne t give them as good as they can

dish out. To come out on top howios ever, the Tigers will have to bring
ag out all the talent available and get
‘os a: ae, shape. When their prospective opponents get on the ice they
- won’t be fooling and they will have
_ the wherewithal to really go places.
It is up ta the hockey-minded students to give them a different view
I on the matter.

 

The appointment of Jack Mac_ Kenzie as swimming manager brings
_ to mind the point of just what status
Swimming has in the D.A.A.C. or_ ganization anyway. It is listed as a
minor sport but there is no provision for awards for it. At the
semi-annual meeting an amendment
to adjust this and give some reward
for swimming efforts was brought
up but as there was not a quorum
present the necessary change in the
____ ¢onstitution could not be made. This
____ leaves us with a prospective swim__—-—s ming team, a manager and no place
ii to go as the boys cannot be expected
to go out and train with no prospect

 

  
  
  
   
   

 
 

 

BLACK

not athletically minded. Not one of
the class of ’44 turned up to play
interfaculty basketball against Arts
and Science Tuesday evening. This
sort of thing just must stop. Freshmen should have half the class on
the floor trying to play and not know
any better instead of not showing
up like upperclassmen do on occasion. Freshmen as the up and
coming athletic lights of the campus
really ought to take more interest
in the matter, but if they don’t give
a d—— about Bob Blois’ sport functions there is nothing we can do for
them.

 

We absolve ourselves of all responsibility of “building up” “Willie”
Kapak as a hockeyist to be noted
during the coming season. We merely repeated what we heard from our
“friends” in first year law. Now
Kapak ‘may turn out to be a hockey
star. We fervently hope he does
because something will be needed to
blind Tech and St. Mary’s. Im the
meantime, however, and until future
practices bring out the real abilities
of those trying out for the team, let’s
hope that we have a really good
player in our midst. In other words
Kapak, make it good, and we do
mean good.

 

After viewing for a short while
that method of modified mayhem
which our gentle (?) girl’s ground
hockey team played with H. L. C.
Wednesday, we cannot but shudder
to think that we have actually been
advocating that the annual D.A.A.C.
vs. Sherriff Hall game be played
soon. We make an attempt to understand ice hockey, but this apparently
feminine pastime has much greater |
shin-grinding possibilities. Recruits
from H.L.C. will doubtless be smug
"DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

M HAS FIRST PRACTICE SESSION

PORT SH OTS Former Players

|

Return To Ice

Prospects Good In First Be ia of on Year.— Many of Last
Year’s Team Are Ready For Action.

The first hockey practice of

the season for the Tigers wa:

held Tuesday evening at the Arena, when seventeen prospective
puck-chasers went through their paces in bids for team

positions.
———-—
Few Turn Out For
Practice Periods

An appeal is being made to those
who are interested in playing basketball to turn out for the practices
being held Wednesday and Friday
noons. Last Wednesday only ten
people turned out for the combined
senior and intermediate practice.

Surely there are more people than |
this interested in playing the game
this year.
that the first game for the fatarhes'|
diates is in the first week of Decem-|
ber and would show appropriate
interest it would help Burnie to get
a real good intermediate squad on
the floor then. If not enough men.
turn out the intermediate competition will be dropped altogether for.
Dal.

As to the prospects for the coming season, aside from the lack of)
players at practices, there are some |
indications that the seniors ought to
be able to keep any opposing city |
team on the defensive. Smith, Wilson and Dunbrack of last year’s |
team are in good trim. while Martin. |
Doig and MacLeod are showing real
promise, according to Coach Ralston. The latter has had two years’
pews at Mount A.

 

———
Se Une EEE

‘Medicine Wins
Interfac Title

 

Six men of last year’s team were

present at the try-out. These included Web Macdonald, Marty MacDonald, Blanchard Wiswell, Johnny Mulane, Ken Mitchell, and Bain Munro.

New prospects for various posi
H 7 ae whee oT ae :
Let acre ee

i ah ee

Friday, November 22, 1940

 

 

Skating sessions will be held af
is asked.
On this coming Sunday the Tigers
will hold their second practice of the

year and weeding: out ‘will start to

‘ter each game before Christmas and; get the regular team into shape.
a large turnout to support the team} All those looking for a berth this

year are asked to be at the Arena
at 10 o’clock Sunday morning for a
good workout.

 

 
 

Maritime Christmas Recess
All Classes Adjourn on FRIDAY, DEC. 20th, 1940
Both Day and Evening Classes Reassemble on

MONDAY, JANUARY 6th, 1941

  

tions this year were out in number
and included Dooley MacIntosh, former Mount A. player, and Gordon
Wilson, last year’s Academy player.

ENTER ANY DAY

GRADUATE ANY MONTH

If they would remember! were

a

Opposing Munro in the nets for
practice and appraisa] of the various front line combinations was
Warner. Other new players out
Ferguson, Smith, Chappell,
Horne, Dunham, Doig, Sandoz, Mitchell, and Kapak.

Hard practice for those selected
for the inter-collegiate competition,
starting Nov. 28, will begin in the
very near future. Two practices a
week will be held. Burny Ralston
will look after the team this year.
A real effort will be made to get it
into shape for a win in the first
game.

Other last year players not out}
last evening are expected to start |
practicing right away, but some of
those in the professional schools
will not: be out until after the holidays. |

At a meeting of the officials of |

the league, Ralph Vaughne of st. |

|Mary’s, secretary, reported that the

Arena would only be available on

Thursday and Saturday nights, and |
only in the latter case if the team |

bought the skating season. |
The Thursday night scheme of

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 College Street
E.

leita

Here’s Good Ne

  

KAULBACH, C.A., Principal

 

For Music Lovers

Halifax, N. S.

 

‘ee

All VICTOR RED SEAL
RECORDS are now selling at lower prices than
ever before.

Visit Phinney’s Record
Department today, and
listen to the music of

|
|
|
your favourite artists. '
:
|
|

The Phinney Music Co., Ltd.

456 Barrington Street

 

 

BS of a reward for it in some way. The| gled into the coming conflict. We games is generally approved by the)

re teh matter will doubtless come up again} suggest an inspection of the players Ov E executive, and if carried out will|

na at the D.A.A.C. annual meeting in| be carried out at least to prove their | er ngineers mean that King’s will not be able to

Bi _ the spring, but in the meantime | identity. The more we think of it| participate, as they have a conflict
_ teal swimming competitions, etc. the more we’d like to get on the, Fraser and MacNeil Make Winning ing schedule of military training. A |

Bs. committee. The idea bears inves-| Tries For Forrest Men.—Dunham |». ticularly favorable financial ar-|

a The Freshman class is apparently | tigation. | Is Sole Scorer For Boilermakers. | s,,,oment has been assured by the

Ps | ) By BOB BLOIS rink management. | elf a ‘

piel CHALLENGE! Medicine defeated Engineers 8 to 3 Late Devel t |

fe) ae : Wi : edicine defeated Engineers 8 to 2 sate Developments. | .
Nea + W; Engineers m Red Payne’s stalwart shin- Ke win the Inter-faculty Footbal] At a meeting of the league, held | ari Ime urriers
Bhurs: crushers hereby give notice that title, Wednesday. The Meds, with, last evening, it was found that|f|

ah -Interfaculty Games they are ready to meet any or | many outstanding players on their; King’s has withdrawn, as they have | |

el all the girls of Dalhousie in a |team, proved too strong for the military training Thursday night, | |
| "> The interfaculty basketball league ground hockey game. fighting Engineers. the night of the game. A schedule | fj)

‘x got underway on Tuesday evening The worthy membership of In the first half the winners es-| was also approved. Dal willmeet St. | | 7 1 ;

é with three games scheduled. In the| the D,A.A.C. under Mr. Payne | tablisher a 3—0 lead on a try made) Mary’s on Novy. 28 in the first game |} Invite you to inspect their
an opening game a strong Law team) battle at any time in the near by Clarence Fraser. With a strong) of the year. .

re took a 25-4 victory over Medicine.| future, with confidence that they wind at their backs, the Meds con-| The other games will be on Dec. 5, rew and varied assortment

Lyall, Hutchins and Anderson were
outstanding for the winners, while
Fraser and Martin paced the losers.
Re Med.: Martin, Nonamaker, Fraser
h 4, VanHorne, Young, Kerr, Bethune,
MacDougall, MacNeil.

| Law: Anderson 3, Lyall 8, MacLeod 2, MacRitchie 4, Hutchins 8,
_-‘Piercey, Hanway.

In the second game of the evening Engineers won a hard fought
game from Commerce by a score of
ie 41-81. Engineers gained an early
lead ~and held it throughout the
+ game. Vail, James and McAlden
| _-were the sharpshooters for the win‘ners. Gibson and B. Mitchell played
well for the losers.

_ Commerce: Gibson, L. Mitchell, B.
‘Mitchell, Blois.
f _ Engineers: Vail, V. Graham, Mac| Kenzie, James, McAlden.
The third game between Arts and
'  Seience and Freshmen was won by
default by Arts & Science as the
Brn gy"  iekeatnen failed to show up. WilanE sky, Barrett, J. Fraser, Diamond,
; _ Harrison, Dunn turned out for Arts
_ and Science.

  
  
   
    
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  

ie | Managers Named At
| | D, A. A. C. Meeting

At a D.A.A.C. meeting held last
Sunday managers for Swimming
_ and ~=Badminton were appointed
ae and hockey prospects discussed.
Jack ~ MacKenzie was appointed
Bis - swimming manager and Jack Mat
thew succeeds Forbes Mountain
% e looking after badminton.

2 it . John Serymageour is assistant

_ hockey manager. The hockey situn was reported on by Manager

MacDonald. He reported
isie’s entry into the

 

 

will reassert without difficulty
the superiority of the male.

This Week In
Girls’ Sport

by M. MacKeigan

 

 

 
 

On Wednesday afternoon only 7
girls turned out for the ground
hockey game against H.L.C., so the
rest of the team was made up of
H.L.C, players. The Dal team was
defeated, H.L.C. scoring 6 goals and
Dal none. It may have been lack
of practice, fewness) of numbers or
just plain inferiority to their opponents. The Dal girls did their best.
That best would be a whole lot better if more turned out. The annual
game against the boys is scheduled
for next Wednesday. The more girls
turn out, the better our chances then.

Basketball
Basketball practice will be on Fridays 5.30 to 7; after practice supper
is served free in the homestead.
Last week about 15 girls turned out
and many of them were heard to remark that it was “swell to be playing again.” The interclass league
will probably be getting under way
soon, so come out and get some
practice before it starts.
Ping Pong
The ladder for the tournament, if
it has not already been posted, will
be up very soon. The names are
not listed in order of merit but
doubtless the best will come to the
top soon.

 

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL
The schedule of games to be

played Tuesday, Nov. 26, follows:
7-8 p.m.—Arts & Science vs. Law.
7-8 p.m.—Med. vs. Engineers.

8-9 p.m.—Comm., vs. Freshmen.

trolled the play in this half. Mur- |

ray, Engineer full-back, relieved the
pressure on several occasions with
accurate kicks into touch. Leith,
went over the line before the period
ended, but referee Rus Webber ruled
no try, as the amn had crossed the
dead-line before downing the ball. |

Engineers showed up well in the
second half, with the wind in their)
favor, but lacked the necessary scor- |
ing punch. “Duckfoot’”’ MacLean)
Lean broke away for the Meds and
passed to Bunny MacNeil, who)

Dal Girls Prepare-
(Continued from page one)

This program would last for approximately half an hour and would
consist of about twelve short dances
presented in chronological order. Mr.
Dean has very kindly offered to assist with music and dance forms and
Miss Wray will help to teach the
girls the actual steps.

The girls also plan a gymnastic
display for Munro Day. Miss Wray’s
freshette class is progressing by
‘leaps and bounds” and there is an
enthusiastic group, consisting chiefly
of upperclassmen, doing apparatus
work.

It really looks as though the boys
won’t be running the whole show this
year. D.G.A.C. will have their usual
basketball and badminton displays
and in addition a ping-pong display.
Under the able managership of
Connie Spinner, ping-pong is pouncing into prominence and a ladder
tournament is to start today to ascertain the best players.

“May I print a kiss upon your lips?”
She nodded her sweet permission;
So they went to press, and I rather
guess
They printed a whole edition.
—Western Gazette.

when Dal will meet Tech, and on
Dec. 12, when Tech and St. Mary’s
will close off the pre-holiday games,

scored. MacLean converted the try,
making it 8—0 for Medicine.
During loose play in front of the.
Med’s goal line, Dunham scooped up_
the ball and scored the only try for |
Engineers. The attempt to convert |
failed. Before the game ended,)

Young broke away on a long run, |

but the play was called back.

Lineups:

Engineers: B. Murray, K. Mitchell,
J. Foster, L. Harvey, Moore, K. Foster, Mussett, Strachan, Gilbert, Dunham, Horne, Goodman, Vail (manager).

Medicine: C. Fraser, MacDougall. |
MacNeil, Ross, Leith, MacLean, G.
MacKenzie, Tonning, Reardon, Non-!
namaker, Young, A. MacDonald,
McCormic, J. Kerr (manager).

Referee: Rus Webber.

a

}

 

 

 

 

    

in Fur Coats and Evening
Wraps.

EES ee A

=

Hats made to order.

 

Daa

THE
BEST MILK
CHOCOLATE
MADE

  
