uae TW ie could and did. Two hundred
___and fifty corsages at 50c apiece were
Ys bought, tied with Queen’s colors and
shipped to Kingston. Verily, verily,

 

  
    
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 

Cae C.U-P. is a mighty
j re oft expressed this

| Queen’s, that “hes minder

ide ae Pakioente prepartions for their

Art Ball, even to the extent of en
F ye | gaging Mart Kenny and his Westsee Gentlemen to provide the music.

_ They also had a plan to sell corFEGNE aE the date tor S0c and/give
all this money to the war effort.
With everything in readiness it
was suddenly discovered that corsages in Kingston couldn’t be obtained for less than 75c. Would
_ the editor “please” see if he could
get them for 50c in Toronto and
ov avert a catastrophe of fin
the C.U.P. has once again proven its)

i f iy AF i PF i i
Pete os - worth.

All the Universities across Canada
are back in full swing with the military training. All the publications
_ feature C.O.T.C. orders and instruct
tions within their pages. The Sen
ate of the University of Toronto

has freed all 4th year Chemical En
gineering students to engage in the
manufacture of munitions. They will

be exempted from attendance and

yeeeive their degrees if their work
has been satisfactory.

This is an indication of how solidly the Canadian student is behind
the war effort. There is great activity in other fields as well. A Spitfire
Fund is growing at New Brunswick
and McGill and is being seriously
mooted at many other universities.
A nation-wide drive is going to be
attempted on this and it would be
an excellent concrete example of the
feeling of university students in regard to the war.

Events are being held in aid of
the Red Cross on every campus
and an astonishing sum of money
has already be realized.

x *

In art and music, Saskatchewan
and Manitoba are. going overboard
in a big way. At the U. of S., drama
has hit an all-time high with the
establishment of a Dramatic Directorate which, in conjunction with
the Saskatoon Little Theatre Club
will take charge of dramatics this
teri: .

Charles LeMaistre, well known in
eastern circles, has been engaged as
director.

At the U. of M. the Student

Symphony Orchestra holds atten- tion. It was organized last fall

and is the only University symphony orchestra in Canada. It has
in the neighborhood of fifty members and what is strange for an
amateur orchestsra contains a full
wind complement.

This has made a great hit on the
Manitoba campus and the concerts
are received with avid interesst.
- Looking over these efforts it would

perhaps indicate that Canadian arts
and music are slowly coming to a
_ distinctive ati

*

VOL. LXXIII

 

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 31, 1941

> HARVARD DOCTORS

DAL WELCOME

 

SOPHISTICATED

PLAY PROMISED}

Thursday, February 6th, Exclusive Showing For the Services.
—Dalhousie Night on Friday, the 7th.—Enthusiastic Audiences Expected to See “Spring Dance”, by Philip Barry.

The Dalhousie Glee Club swings@———

back to happy times with their 3
act presentation, “Spring Dance”,
by Philip Barry. Dalhousians and
their city friends will be there at
8:30 p. m. sharp Friday, after the
Services will have already seen it on
Thursday. Laughter and a good time
should be in store for everyone who
appreciates the clever modern playwright, Philip Barry, author of the
“Philadelphia Story”, which is enjoying such a screen success with
Katherine Hepburn in the leading
role.

Hear a few of the press reviews
of the play following ts first success in New York :

“happily composed and brightly
spoken sentences undeniably nice,
pink and clean—so, go ahead and
rejoice.” —New York American.
“__ skittishly collegiate, full of
slacks, light banter and roll-over
acting—the glib brightness of Barry’s usual imprint —” New York
Evening Journal.

“Clever play on younger generation”’—New York World-Telegram.

“_a gay little comedy of college
romance,—a highly entertaining exhibit with sentimental problems —
amusing situations—new dialogue
that sparkles—’ —Broklyn Times.

There is much that is gay and
light and amusing in“Spring Dance”
neetones in Mr. Barry’s best manner.”—-New York Herald Tribune.

The well chosen Dalhousie cast includes:—

Ruth MacQuarrie as Aiex Benson

Clutch MacKimmie. .SamThatcher

“Dooley” MacIntosh. .John Hatton

John Tasman..... The Lippincot

Joan Blackwood..... Mady Platt

Harry Smith...... Walter Beckett

Adelaide Fleming..Frances Fenn

Marjorie MacLean. .Kate. McKim

Kay Robinson Sally Prescott

Kay Hicks Miss Ritchie

Eileen Mader Mildred

Buck Buchanan and Doc Boyd

..John Barret and Bert Perrot

The play is under the expert

direction of Mns. K. C. Clarke.

“*nree

 

DELTA GAMMA MEETING

Several matters of business were
brought up at a small meeting of
Delta Gamma Society on Thursday
noon. As there were so few members present it was decided to defer
the business till another meeting in
the near future at which time plans
for the girls folk-dancing display,
open house, and, believe it or not, a
Sadie Hawkins dance will be completed.

 

“YOU IN AMERICA
We have only you to look to”

“Since I last heard from you I have tried to find more in
_ formation on foreign students, refugees in this city.
f misery

Lae?) BO -e

gira the moment material aid is the most urgent.

I found plenty

No one has

done anything up to the present in this respect, in spite of the most
Suiteasing cases ... we ourselves are at the end of our resources .. .

“tT hope you can do something for this distressing situation.

 

*

S.S8.).

*

at the same time. And everyone here is so absorbed

You can imagine the state of mind of those people who are afraid
} ‘ og sown affairs. You understand .

. . they have only you to

* *.

baits Rablehets from a letter sent by a foreign student
in France to the Geneva office of the International
rvice Thousands of appeals like this one
day by aay, and the LS.S. within the framework
Student Relief fund is helping refugee students

France to keep alive and

secretaries and student centres, to re
WOMEN AT WAR

By Harriet Bloomfield.

Woman’s Editor, McGill Daily.

 

This week marks the, beginning of
the seeond-term schedule of the War
Service program for Women at MceGill University. The work done by
the co-eds for the first term consisted of a six weeks study of the principles and practices of first aid given

under the auspices of the St. John
Ambulance Association. The eight
hundred women students (600 at the
Royal Victoria College and 200 at
MacDonald College) enrolled in the
course took the exam, which, if
passed, entitles them to a St. John’s
Certificate.

The War Service Program. for
Women at McGill is the only one of
its kind on any Canadian Campus.
It was instituted at the beginning
of the College year, and aims at providing (1) special training for effective assistance in event of emergency, and (2) such physical training as will make for fitness to undergo long periods of physical and
mental strain. The latter is carried
out through two hours a week of
compulsory physical training for
every co-ed at McGill. This includes
corrective and development exercises,
drills, marching and rhythmical exercises. Intramural athletics exist
on a voluntary basis.

The second half of the schedule,
which continues in place of first aid,
consists of the treatment of shock,
exposure and exhaustion, some of
the techniques of nursing, especially
under emergency conditions, prevention of exposure diseases (such
as colds, influenza and pneumonia).
Included also will be the importance,
place and methods of  phychotherapy.

The supplying of food, shelter and ian

heat under emergency conditions,
both for workers and victims, will
be discussed. A study of the regular
channels of food supply, as well as

‘|food values, the organizing of can
teens, emergency rationing, the selection, cost and dispensing of foods
by gas, glass, ete., chemical and bacterial contamination of milk and
water supplies, the nature and menace of waterborne diseases, and various methods of discontamination will
also form part of the course.

Emergency housing, problems of
heating and clothing in relatichn to
adverse climatic conditions wil] be
dealt with. A knowledge of fire hazards and of air-raid patrol measures
will be necessary for an understanding of the whole physical and administrative organizations of the
community, Students will also become aware of the various governmental and volunteer organizations
which function when disaster befalls
a community, as might happen in
war time. Problems of evacuation
and the handling of evacuees will also be given some attention.

Dr. Roscoe, Warden of Royal Victtoria College and Chairman of the
War Service Program for Women,
saidinarecent article that the program was “instituted to equip university women with the ability to
face unexpected developments, such
as “war”, and “to provide certain
leadership and trained assistance in

time of emergency.”

Ss a,

 

Wins Fellowship

Clarence L. Gosse M. D. (Dalhousie, 39), son of Dr. N. H. Gosse of
Halifax, has been awarded a Fellowship in major surgery at the Crile
Clinie of Cleveland, beginning July

 

1941. He is at present completing a
two year residency in surgery at St.
Luke’s Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio.

Clary also received his B. Se. from
Dal and was very active in student
activities. His achievements include:
Editorship of the Year Book in 1939 President of the Student Medical Society, ’37-’38; member and executive member of the Students’ Council, Business Manager of the Dal
Medical Journal, class president ’35’36, President Phi Chi fraternity, cochairman Munro Day committee ’38.

We know that Clary will be most
successful in his chosen field of surgery. Congratulations, Dalhousie is
proud of you,

DATE SET FOR
JUNIOR PROM

The Junior Prom was the subject
for discussion at a meeting of class
’42 in the Arts Buildng on Tuesday.

The date of the big ball is set
for Thursday, February 20th, in
the Lord Nelson Hotel.

The price is $3.50 per couple and

all arrangements are now in the
hands of John Fraser, John Tasman,
Christine Cameron, Yank Forsyth
d Inez Smith.
For those who do not know,
still the custom to send invitations
| to the members of the senior class.
In other words, senior students are
admitted free but must pay single
price to take a friend who is not
in the class of ’41,

FAULKNER ON ART

A number of students who are interested in fine arts met at the
Murray Homestead last Thuusday
evening and heard Dr. Faulkner,
Pine Hill, give a lecture on religious
art.

Dr Faulkner’s first slides showed
the mural decorations of the earliest
Christian churches and tombs. He
showed and describd the development of aerial perspective as Giotto
used it in his pictures of St. Francis,
the faithful portrayal of the human
figure as Perugino painted it, and
the balanced arrangement of figures
shown first in this work, later in
that of his great pupil,
Sanzio.

A number of the famous religious
pictures of Raphael, Tintoretti,
Michaet Angelo, Diirer and Rembrant were shown,

This group will meet in the Murray Homestead again on Thursday,
February 6 at 7:30 p. m, A seminar
on the topic of Dutch painters is
being planned.

Everyone interested in the topic
is cordially invited to attend and
take part in the discussions.

——s
. 7a
si elie

ee pT
(saa aah Hees

No. 13

"lore to Assis t nad Authorities

____ Technicians Staying at Shirreff Hall

 

; Volunteer assistance from the
| SMITH SMITES erase University Medical School
has reached Halifax to help the latDear Editor:—I congratulate you | ter in its fight against the prolonged

on your brave attempt to upbraid epidemic of diphtheria and searlet
the three provincial premiers who] feyor

é er- | /
dared to question the sanity of cer-| The party: of aie Harvard deci

 

tain people in calling th owell- :
3 [Steere Fast & the’ B and four research assistants is headSirois group to Ottawa. :
: : » |ed by Dr. . Howard Mueller, associWere they not truculent men? |

ate, professor of bacteriology and im
munology. Their visit marks the
first time that civilians have landed
| at the Eastern Passage R. C. A. F,
station. Dr. Mueller said upon his
fassipal’ “We are here to assist local

They suggested that our dilapidated
B. N. A. Act which we have till the |"
present got along tollerably well |
with, should not now be attacked:
To broach this, greatest of all Canada’s sore spots, is almost mutiny at
present. With the most perilous | LARD OTIS: |
days of Empire upon us, why should| The female members of the group
we confound our people with base |# staying at Shirreff Hall and exsquabbles over our Constitution ? pect to be here for one month. To
Are the troubles of Pre-War Can-| illustrate how some people in the U.
ada so easily forgotten? Remote |S. are led to picture this section of
Pad- | Canada, the Harvard group were told

 

control? Debt free money?
lock Laws? Hunger march on Ot-| We lacked butter, sugar, candy and a
tawa? Our Unemployed? Our|few other such luxuries. They prob
ably expected to see U-boats patrol
most awe-inspiring system of Povling the Northwest Arm. At least

Sed se

erty amidst Plenty? Can such be
forgotten in so short a time?

If we are still conscious of these
roubles let us dare not “fiddle while
London burns”, that is the way of
weaker men. Let us

spirit of great Cinncinatus,
fight on to victory.

pick up our|
guns, or our knitting, and with the}
let us|

When this war is won, then curse |

the snow fall has given them a true
Canadian welcome. We wish the
volunteer group a pleasant and successful stay in this East Coast Canadian Port.

 

 

CLASS °43 MEETS

Class °48 held a meeting at noon

it is |

Raphael

our worthy premiers Hepburn, Aber- yesterday at which the most mo
hart, and Pattullo if they fail us. mentous decision arrived at Was

I feel quite sure that those who now |that there should be another meet
suggest “fight” instead of “fiddle” | ing of the class next Thursday,

shall not fail us. | At this meeting class officers will
Yours truly, ibe elected. Everyone out!

Colin Henderson Smith, Dot Graham and Bill Hagen were
|appointed as a committee of two to
investigate the possibility of having
a class dance,

aetna Se ee ee

NOTICE

All those students who have not |

already been vaccinated for dyp- |

theria, have now a new chance of
protecting themselves

 

NOTICE

Graduates having pictures taken
for the Year Book are given three
days grace. Be sure that they are

taken by February 3rd.
SEGREGATE SEXES AT LIBRARY?

A little over half the people quizzed this week would like the privilege of sitting anywhere in the MacDonald Library, instead of being
forced to sit with members of their own sex. 59% object to the present
system, 35% support it as an aid to studying or else just to cover up an
inferiority complex produced by B.O., Coffee Nerves, B.A., or something
of that nature, while 5% refused to be committed.

One romantic soul suggested that the sexes should be allowed to
mingle at night only. . Oddly enough, the chief protest against the enforced segregation came from the Forrest campus, where 78% opposed
the present arrangement. 58% of those at Studley are satisfied with the
status quo.

and others |
from this disease by attending any
Wednesday afternoon at the Public
Health Clinic,

 

 

? DIPO 9

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

 

SSS sess sss

 

     

 

 

%* *K ok *

WAS SIROIS REPORT FAIRLY TREATED

Regardless of the merits or demerits of the Sirois Report,a majority
of Dalhousie students believe it did not receive fair consideration at the
Ottawa Conference. 55% reported lack of confidence in the manner with
which Canadian Premiers dealt with the recommendations. 15% were
completely in accord with the action of the gathering, and the unusually
light number of 24% non-committal. 3% in addition believed that as fair
treatment was given as could be expected under the circumstances, while
others suggested that the expense of calling a conference was too great
and that no reports are ever worthy of great expenditure on the part of

the government.

* x * *

OUTSTANDING DALHOUSIE FIGURE OF 1940?

What Winston Churchill is for the British Empire, apparently genial
Major Hogan is for Dalhousie, according to the vote of 29% of those
asked by DIPO. In second place was Otto Antoft, the freshmen’s friend,
who was selected by 10%. The third spot was shared by several wellknown Dalhousians—John Windebank, Len Goldberg, Gentleman George
Corston, Red Payne, and Roy Atwood, with 7% each. Others to receive
mention were Mile Smith, Ralph Smith, Lew Woolner, No One, Sergeant
Major Lally, Don’t Know, Kissy Cameron, Webster Macdonald, John
Grant, Pontus (King Karl’s dawg, if you don’t know), C. L. Bennet, Wilbur P, Fizzleque, and Freddie Barton. It is clearly another case of “As
goes Medicine, so goes Dalhousie”, as a slight lead built up by Antoft
on widely-scattered returns from Studley was smothered by the Major’s
popularity at the Forrest Building.

 
   
   
      
       

main Rolland, speaking of the passing a an era and all its ideology,
speaks thus of Beethoven:
B-9746| «The whole being of a BeethoB-9586| ven—his sensibility, his concepB-9746 | tion of the world, the form of his
B-4421| jntelligence and of his will, the
laws of his construction, his ideoB-5635 | logy, as well as the substance of
; his body and his temperament—
B-9746| everything is representative of a
B-2753) certain European epoch.”
B-9746| We today belong to‘a different
B-9746 | world. We are divided into two opae posing camps, resolved to fight to
~ |the finish whatever the finish may
an , be. One side has frankly rejected
WHY ARTS? the idealism of Beethoven’s day.

ver-failing subject of controversy at any university The other speaks often the same
been whether or not students should be compelled to | phrases, but has mostly lost faith in
me measure of classical training. A poll conducted by | what it utters. There is everywhere
‘Jast fall disclosed that exactly half of those whose|@ spirit of hopelessness, of futility.
3 were asked favoured compulsory Latin or Greek, |Human life no longer seems worth
e the other half opposed it. Whatever the accuracy of | the praise that Beethoven gave it.

it does disclose a definite difference of opinion| We find it very easy in these days
to explain away his attitude by re
oe the utility of the Arts course in its entirety has |™membering that he grew up in the
Hezent by a good many. It has been pointed out that | 87°! light of the French Hevoluident may succeed in obtaining a B.A. and yet be fitted for tion, when to many young spirits
skilled employment; that the training given in the so-called | it was bliss to be alive. We, at the

ura purposes simply lacks utility. It is not hard to account distance of one hundred and fifty
Ete opinion being held by many people. A medical course | ¥¢#"S: look back with cynicism on
ee training for doctors, Dentistry naturally produces 'the ardent faith of the revolution‘ists, Law lawyers, but what does an Arts course produce? |Tes» and are anxious lest we

   
     
 
 
   
   
   
    

      

BR ge OCR oe Sate ee ee eee
gs age ae nya Sack lit eee
gag er oe RE et eee
C.F ot eel eet ieee tee
ee we Se a ee ea ee ere

e
or
a}
bn
we

a i INEZ SMITH
nt s Manager: MARY J JOHNSON:

 

  

 
 

re

  
 

 

   
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
    
    
    
   
   
 
 
    
   
  
     
 
    
  
  
    
   
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  

duce culture. It is intended to keep alive in the world cause and be deceived.

___ _Assurvey of young people ten years out of college disclosed the liberals of that time, the power
bP
_ that Arts graduates were earning more money than those who of Beethoven holds us still. We
had not gone to university, but this is beside the point. It is ceunot demise him as vone who was
_ science which produced the great practical advances of our, carried away by the current idealcnn and it is science therefore that should be studied if utility ism. If we are disillusioned, he was
i is the end in view. The Arts course, as its name implies, is in- yet more so, He lived in Vienna
Fs tended for those interested in the arts. It is not meant to be when Metternick was at the height
_ practical. It is natural, therefore, that the attack on the Arts|°f bis Power, and saw everywhere
course should be centred on those studies which are farthest out him the triumph of the old
te yp “removed from practical utility, namely, Latin and Greek. It |W°rld over the new.
is not on the ground of their practical utility, however, that From the time when, as a young
_ the upholder of the arts will attack or defend compulsory |"*" from the Rheinland, he came to
ie rc. or Greek. The criterion must be on their contribution | VY!" with a feeling of superiorto the cultural life of the student. ity over all the dukes and princes
And it is precisely here, we think, that these languages are “ pike meh ei ene oe
_ proving themselves inadequate today. The influences the Clas-|". <° 1 character and. ability.
. oes have had in the past is not to be despised. The Renais- ee! ae,
_ gance, which Professor Bennet has publicized so well that most
Dalhousie students must have heard of it, received its chief
_ impetus through the study of the languages of the ancient
_ world. The writings of Greek philosophers and poets and
Roman lawyers have a worth which leads some people to read
them today. There can be little doubt, however, that it would
be utterly “impossible to interest the great mass of modern
- wniversity students in the Classics. A survey of any compul_ sory Latin class, even at Dalhousie, might not show that the
- Students in it were uncultured, but it would certainly show

sion of that ideal.

hh : been written since the Golden Age of Rome. No student
could possibly hope to exhaust the learning of modern times,
r are the modern writings by any means inferior. Milton
apares very favorably with Homer, and while there may
e > have been no philosophers as great as Plato or Aristotle, cer: tainly no one today would accept their systems in preference
& to more recent theories of the world and life. The wisdom of
a the ancients may not have been surpassed, but it has been
superseded. In the second place, most of the important works
ee ‘the Classical Age have been translated. Anyone can read
‘y Plato’s: “Republic” or the “Aeneid”, but there are important
x rks in modern languages which have not yet been translated,
‘ and which would be well worth reading.
_ The essential aim of culture is to enable man to underra ‘s and the world and himself as well as he can. In times past
ce the Classics were a means to that end. Today, for most people,
fr ey are not, and a substitute must be discovered. A group to
study art has recently been organized on the campus. This is
R: one method for attaining culture, but the curriculum of the
ie Barts course provides others. Through a study of the sciences
| frie student gets some idea of the processes of matter and of
arg in the History department he may trace the development
_ of man; and even a course or two in Philosophy will help to
. link the other subjects together.
Be e practical man may still ask, Why bother with culture
“at all? “Er he is content to be a practical man and nothing
iv mo ere is no reason. If he wishes to be a leader of thought
iy in ‘his community, however, there is every reason why he
ou should be interested in obtaining a comprehensive view of
_ reality. If the doctor is content merely to be skilful with the

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

individual existence.

     
  
 
 
  
  
 

poor, deaf musici
fate?

  
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  

salpe | if the dentist has no ambition beyond making teeth, if

‘lawyer merely wants to juggle cases for money, let them
id any study of cultural subjects. But one can hardly restrain a feeling that this would could spare some of its skilful
__ scientists and clever technicians for a few men with a true
_ Sense of values and a sound philosophy of life.

you IN AMERICA...

(Continued from page/one)

_ From students in Europe, homeless and enduring every
i - sort of hardship, to students in the Americas, where as yet the
y has hardly been felt, the appeal comes for more funds.
sie Students’ Council will shortly conduct a camampus. Surely no one who has any appreciation

hk | A, no one who has any sense of
. eee whe are striving to keep alight the
atior “wurope will refuse some small sacrifice

 

greatness.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

a flame of finer civilization which is so feeble that it is In spite of all that we can say |
ta in danger of extinction, not to train craftsmen for jobs. about the over-optimistic spirit of ' orchestra, placing the violins in the

He could not forgive Goethe for his
readiness to conform to the customs
of a court. Beethoven was true to
the spirit of Rousseau, the prophet
of republics. In such republicanism
the moral qualities were great; the
aim was to enlarge and glorify the
human spirit. Beethoven’s Third
Symphony is the supreme expres
If Beethoven had lived a happy,
iat they were not getting their culture there. Geionhiod life after 1802, it would
For this there are reasons. In the first place, a great deal have been easy for him to accept a woman who understood Einstein,
the hopeful idealism of other rebels] byt she was insane.) In other
against the old order of Metternich.
As a young man he was filled with}; As snobs we consider ourselves
delight by Schiller’s “Ode to Joy”
in which the poet is inspired by a|ings. We are civilized and from our
vision of universal brotherhood. But- stranded pinnacles we look down
before he was much older circum-| with tolerance on the poor individstances forced him to consider the|yal who claps loudly after hearing
great contrast between an ideal of Rachmaninoff play some little
a common striving after universal| known concerte of Schubert, then
well-being, and the misery of his|asks for “When You Come to the

His deafness threatened the pro-/| worse, the “C Minor Prelude”.
gress of his art and his means of |

subsistence. His career as a pianist |capable of understanding the conwas over. Fate seemed determined |tinuity of music, something of
to subdue him. He could not believe | which we are no longer capable. He
in the ideal of an,uplifted humanity |js capable of seeing what there is
when the loss of every personal aim|of Haydn, Beethoven and Tschaikmade him contemplate suicide. Ev-| owsky in so small and so perfect a
ery particular problem became in-| composition as Strawinsky’s “Passignificant beside the main question |torale”, yet, while realizing Straregarding life itself. Why should a wwinsky learned from Beethoven,

"eat ) eo iC
[BEETHOVEN AND IDEALISM

In “Beethoven, the Creator”, Ro- community with others of its kind.

The attainment of joy and love for
mankind is the tie which Beethoven
saw between God and man. Jog is
the “spirit divine, Daughter of Elysium”.

The belief in the great possibilities of human development was the
central belief of German humanism.
It is necessarily an individualistic
doctrine in the sense it begins with
the individual. In spite of the passage of time the problems faced by
Beethoven will continue to be pondered by mankind. His power over
us cannot pass with social and political systems. As long as men are
men and feel the “slings and arrows
of outrageous fortune” they will
feel their kinship with Beethoven.

MUSICAL SNOBS

It is fun to be a snob. In a recent
review in “The New Republic” Otis
Ferguson discovered a flaw in
“Fantasia”, With high glee he remarked Mr. Stokowski yearning
over the left of an invisible orchestra in a passage for horns. Now,
as “le monde” and Mr. Ferguson
know the violins are at the left and
the horns when they are there are
in the centre. To quote Mr. Ferguson, he brayed aloud. Mr. Ferguson, being a movie critic, must have

 

 

_ The answer is, of course, that an Arts course is intended should be tempted to believe in any), issed the hisses of protest when,

| several years ago, Leopold Stokowski once again rearranged his

centre and the brasses and horns to
the left.

One of the advantages of ‘“Fantasia” over the usual concert should
be that it allows for rearrangement
of the orchestra between such works
as the Pastoral Symphony and Strawinsky’s “Sacre du Printemps”, thus
being better able to render the
change in instrumental emphasis.
But Mr. Ferguson should not, like
La Fontaine’s rat, be singled out
for the glory of solitary snobism.

There is also the snob who, on
hearing a young man play Beethoven’s Sonata, “Pathétique”, said,
“but it does sound a bit flat without
an orchestra, doesn’t it?”

There is her opposite who, having
heard Toscanini conduct Ravel’s
“Bolero”, remarked that jazz sounded rather silly played by a symphony orchestra.

There is the man who considers
music since Purcell beneath his dignity. There is the woman who,
knowing nothing about the fundamentals of music, disserts upon the
glories of Hindemith. (I once met

words, we are all snobs.

»lintelligent and discriminating be
End of a Perfect Day, or, even

Yet this man is still potentially

                                              

Beethoven lived and worked in a

It was many years before Bee-| world which, despite continuous
thoven could express an answer.' revolution, was ordered and _ harThe last of his symphonies has for | monious, whereas at the end of the
its object the expression of the liv- nineteenth century the cracks’ being experience of a great man. It|came apparent to all, and Strawinsis his most complete confession of |ky wrote in an age which felt its
faith. In his life Beethoven passed | keynote to be chaos and dissonance.
from one struggle to another, from| This man is able to realize this,
one disillusionment to another; each | to realize in “Pastorale” the impact
time defeating the impulse to cease |of Freud and twentieth century instruggling. His resistance allowed | terest in primitive society, and thus
him to taste the joy of combat, and|jn primitive music, but, what is
gave him a new ideal of human|more, he realizes “Pastorale” is

music. To him the living composer

The similarity between the ulti-|is neither an idol because he shocks

mate faith of Goethe and that of|the old fogeys, nor beneath considBeethoven is striking. The joy of|eration because his work has not
the Ninth Symphony is the joy of|been applauded by generations.
a man who has passed through all| The living composer must be
manner of disillusionment to a firm|judged by standards of what music
belief that the human mind and|has achieved and can achieve, but
soul is born for combat and shall|he must also give something new,
by that means attain to a sense of Continued on page four

 

a a

January 31, 1941

 

  
   
 
    

  

**] sure gave the boss a piece of my mind.”
“You'd get further if you gave him Sweet Caps.”

  
          
 
   
    
    
    
   
    
    
    
   

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

   
   

The National Fish Company, Limited |

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS |
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA |

 

 

 

WALLACE SHOES Dance Favors
Now is the time It takes planning to

For Ski Boots have favors fora

 

and SKATING OUTFITS dance that are “just |
for Men and Women right”. |
Wide Range of Styles Birks have them — let |
Priced from $3.95 to $11 | us plan with you. |
Wallace Bros. Henry Birks & “J
Limited Sons

415 BARRINGTON ST. Diamond Merchants a

 

Farmers’ Milk 1s

RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME
YOU’LL LIKE IT. |

Soe

  
      

NOVA SCOTIA

   
     

Balhousie Untuersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

    
     
  
  

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

   

 
  
  
  

|
| Arts and Science Faculty
Degrees: B.A., B.Se.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.

   

Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading te degrees of

M.A., M.Sc.

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.

Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

 
   
   
      
    
  
       
   
   

  
   
  

     
  
 

    
 

  
   
   
 
      
  

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

     
 

 
    

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

 
  

  
 

   
  
    

Residence “

Shirveff Hall, residence for women.
supervised residential facilities for men.

   

   

   
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
      
  
 
  

Pia Suthor, | giving
ee Vibes P, Fizzleque
nding a discount on all
reporting the decease of
aif and his friend, Rufus
ayne. With the help of Mlles.
. : na and Benzine the author
was: able to dismantle the intruae r, who turned out to be none
other than John Gaunt in dis_ guise and a rank impostor.
Subsequently a savage attack
+ was made on Gaunt by J. Windebag, who felt that his dignity had
been needlessly impaired by mention of his name in company with
Pe. ‘4 ‘Rayne, Fizzelque, Hokum and
_ Hank Wierd-one and especially
he the Filthy Fifteen.
ee, Lastly, the riot reached its cres_cendo when Joan Gloomytrees
__ protested to the author that people were getting false impresBe sions about her from this column,
ds).

Me

eG
t

Se es

on her feet the morning after the
ba ‘a strict teetooler, never touched
We the filthy stuff at any time unless
it was forced on her, and, furtherey more, what of it? She was appeased by a dram of overpoof and

that she had been perfectly steady
asf Doilymakers’ Ball, that she was
F
the author retired into his high
dudgeon to eer out...

*

get es Three

‘Entitled: The Case of the Vertical

es Medical, or He’s Med, But He
Rie, _ Won’t Lie Down.

While J. Song Woodbelly, the
fiendish Chink and his defective assistants were sedulously following
the soft notes of the flute in search
of the Khaki-Klad Korpse, trouble

j =r yi
, a) v, rh. +" a _ a
Pe a hath P | is! aaelle
; r Y i
wT ee Te eS ee Psy ce 3 ‘ oa
< ; ; ; Oe ‘- ‘ 1 a pe FN
- J : a vo a Pal pe. s io
v (> fs a i ' ‘tM ' y i
‘< i Stet”. i
ie se Oh t 7 4
o8 Nears.
7 yxy
i ‘ vier
al .
. S E oN,
{
F

toward the east, but, lo and behold,
one figure remained standing.

Hastily consulting his Koran,
Sour-gent Smythe assured himself
that this was somewhat out of the
ordinary, but, not wishing to appear alarmed, whistled merrily as
he whipped out his oil can and applied lubrication to the knee-joints
of the upright figure and repeated
the magic words. When nothing
happened after three oilings and a
valve-grind, Sour-gent Smythe tried
a gentle push, but the figure remained erect and immobile.

Stuffing both fists into his mouth,
Smythe next whistled resonantly
for Hokum, who came panting up
to the scene immediately and shouted the magic words along with some
others, with the same lack of effect.

“Unprincipled wretch, ain’t ’e?”
said Hokum to Smythe.

“Not arf,” said Smythe to Hokum, “wot’ll we do with ’im?”

“Call the Kernel,” said Hokum,
whereupon it was legally pronounced by the latter that the figure didn’t legally have a leg to
stand on, so that the whole thing
was ridiculous and _ impossible.
Nonetheless, there was the vertical
object, standing this time on _ its
hands, which completely baffled
even the sure-footed Colonel. Not
even when Hokum stepped up and
called him a cigar store Indian, did
the figure budge.

King Carl and Dean Grunt arrived as the word spread and joined
Hokum and his underlings, shouting
the magic words and pushing together in an easterly direction.
Gradually the figure yielded, but
simultaneously up rushed George
Thinman and his maniacal medicos
to push on the other side.

Saved By a Smelly Solution.

With the gymnasium filled to the
popping point, as frantic studes

ea Os
Ss ’

7 5) rm

STUFF

40 BEERS §|§
Sorry “us engineers” haven’t been
in the paper lately. However, we had
just gotten over the Xmas and New
Year’s celebrations when the Boilermakers’ Ball came along and floored
us again. We take our hats off to
the gentleman who writes “Say 99”
for getting back into action so
quickly. Is he really that rugged or
a tee-totler?

We wish to thank everyone who
helped make the Boilermakers Ball |
a success. And nobody can deny that |
it was a success. They are still telling us we had the best ball of the
year and also the best Boilermakers’
Ball in years. We knew it had been
a success the minute we saw the
drafting room Friday morning. It
had that eerie, deathly stillness that
could only be the fault of a multitude of hangovers. Not a creature
was stirring, not even a “mouse”.

We have decidied to hold our second big event on February 15th at
the Nova Scotian Hotel. The banquet date was decided on at a meeting held Thursday, January 23rd. A
committee was appointed to look
after the details. As usual we all
plan to go to the supper dance
afterward, if it’s at all possible.
Very few have ever found it “not at
al) possible’,

Also at this meeting a committee
was appointed to select a graduating
engineer who will be awarded the
“Bob Walter Memorial Award”.
Those appointed to the committee
were: Gordon Wilson, Don Dunham and John More: automatically
on the committee are Professor
Theakston and Professor Copp. The
award goes to the engineer who durjing his course was most like Bob
Walter. The engineer who gets this
award can indeed feel proud.

We learned with regret that Barry
Coleman has left Dal to take a posi
 

 

 

 

  

| man of many varied capabilities.

snes ype
ae Ph

‘ta ae ee r
o

7 r

   
 

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

SLE OT AE LO EE LE ALE RE EE OEE EE a

 

Dalhousie’s «

whos who

 

He’s the man who’s back again at

dear old Dalhousie after a year
abroad! The ‘“Freshman’s Friend,”
the “Frenchman’s Friend” and “Everybody’s Friend’, better known as
Harry Smith, B.A.

“Now over in France ...as Harry would say, he studied at Bordeaux
having accepted a language scholarship from the French Government.
Miraculous, indeed, was his escape
from France at the time of its fall.
Of course nothing surprises us if
Harry has anything to do with it.

Harry has been on Council three
years and this year he represents
the Post Grads.. Among his many |
activities, Mr Smith has acted in
both French and English plays and
Dame Rumour has it, that once
again he shall star in a forthcoming
production.

With three years Senior Hockey
playing to his credit, C.O.T.C., a
hand in “Convocation Week of 1939”, |
and “Co-pioneer” of the Bulletin,
plus his outstanding work on the
Gazette Staff, as a news reporter
it is quickly seen that Harry is a

This year he will graduate with

 

  
   

FAMOUS FOR TASTE
AND MILDNESS

: ae

a ro i

Dubai

 

And speaking of Brooks, we understand that. Russell’s Tea Room
was the scene of high jinks last
Sunday night, the occasion being
Brooks’ birthday. No, Jack wasn’t
there to help celebrate!

We understand that Joan Ballem
had a visitation from an old friend
from out of town on Sunday. What
can all this mean, we wonder, when
events in the past have been what
they are,

Apparently the Phi Rhos aren’t
so hot at accounting. They forget the “Daley” fixed asset at the
Royal Bank. Hi, Vernon!

What’s the matter with the eter
nal freshman? Is he jealous? What
has R.M.C. that he hasn’t?

What prominent Commerce senior
in the C.0O.T.C. Quartermaster’s
Stores is spending most of his
nights in Dartmouth? We hear
that there are a lot of nice looking
girls there, but Bob likes Helen
best.

The pre-Christmas romances of
the Hall freshettes are all over
now, and this bevy of beauties is
once more foot-loose and fancy
free.—(Advt.)

It seems that there is a chap at
Pine Hill who hopes to graduate
with a 98.4 degree in the Spring.

OXFORD

Friday and Saturday
BING CROSBY
“RHYTHM ON THE RIVER”
and Gene Autrey. in
“MELODY RANCH”
Monday — Tuesday —- Wednes.
“MORTAL STORM”
“MURDER OVER NEW YORK”
Thursday

“ANDY HARDY MEETS
A DEBUTANTE”

ORPHEUS

Friday and Saturday

CAPITOL

THEATRE - HALIFAX

Friday — Saturday -— Monday

“Night Train
To Munich”

MARGARET LOCKWOOD
REX HARRISON

C)

Tuesday — Wednes. — Thurs.

“SOUTH OF SUEZ”
Brenda Marshall — George Brent

“RANGER AND A LADY”

tion in Business. His good-natured
personality will be missed in the
draftng room. Good luck to you in
your undertaking Barry.

The prize boner this week was |
bpd ats | poli |

an M. A. in French. No doubt, the
| teaching profession shall call Harry
to its circle. No matter what he does
we feel sure it will be well done.
Good Luck, Harry old- boy, and

 

P 9
“Victory”
FREDERIC MARCH
BETTY FIELDS

* was abrewing over at Major Ho_ ‘kum’s three-ring circus. Sour-gent
Smythe had spoken the magic words
upon which, as was customary, all
the faithfull fell full on their faith

39

pushed up and feverish militarists
pushed down, Colonel J. Egglespie
Oatcake was working out a solution
in his own quiet way. Mustering

Monday — Tuesday — Wednesday

“CIRLS UNDER 21”
Bruce Cabot — Rochelle Hudson

“GAY CABALERRO”

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Dullhousie band, he marched pulled by Gilbert
into the building to the tune of |}... oh yes, may you always have Joy!
“God Save Good King Wencelsas”,| pngineers are learning more about

 

I heard one | fast”. I left a glass on my table
Boilermaker’s | 'for a few minutes and when I came
all gone.

which brought everyone to attention.
When the last sad notes had died

chemistry every day.
lad remark at the

Say “

CASINO GARRICK

“that there alcohol sure evaporates back it was

 

   

Friday and Saturday

  

  
  
  
    
 

ra away Smythe and Hokum again}; Saturday

‘ turned their attention to the verti- “YOUTH SHALL BE SERVED”

B Title of “Most Amazed Man” |cal medical, but the vertical medi-|* KAY KYSER in “THEY DRIVE BY NIGHT”

goes this = to Bernie Ralston, | cal had vanished, while in its place, “YOU’LL FIND OUT” Monday and Tuesday

Dalhousie’s handsome Professor |leering up at the ceiling with sunk- “BLACKOUT”

; i EXTRAS! nit

7 of Physical Jerks. Bernie just |en eyes, was the mountainous fig- “MEET THE WILDCAT”

can’t get over the way Ben Wil- jure of the Khaki-Klad Korpse, giv- ie en a :

. son’s taken to dropping in of an jing off a strong odour of sea-weed. = OWENS UF Wednesday and Thursday

| evening. We don’t really believe |‘Well,” said Hokum, “he stinks, “CHRISTMAS UNDER FIRE” “THEY KNEW WHAT THEY

| Bernie’s surprised, but it came to | but he’s lying down, anyway, and Filmed in London WANTED

4 as ; : ; “GALLANT SONS” 
| our ears, and after all it’s our job | that’s the kinda sperrut we want in

t to tell you what we hear—or is the army.”

| it? Anyway, she’s what Bill Mac- | Cay te We are happy to announce that week-ends, even to the point of ex
i Quarrie would describe as a “hell- What does the odour of sea- | under the “new order” the “Sty” |haustion. While this comes a little Here’s today’s biggest Value in
ishly fine gal”. weed mean? We can’t see into | will be conducted as usual. Under | late, we understand that Kempston See Snbcemece ok Rae cual

bai Telephone trouble is what bothers; the future, but if we could sea- | no circumstances are the follow- | and Meade were the lives of the , P : q ny

F Ron lately—especially when argu-| weed say it had something to do | ing names to be connected with | party a couple of weeks ago. I'd mixture—full of flavour—mild

is mentative brother Ormy make three| with Rayne. Cheerio! this column in any way: “Itch” | still rather be an Oilcan. and cool. Try a pipe today.

¢alls in a row. If Ritchie could just Graham, “Kissy” Cameron, From all the indications, love’s

get the line (phone or otherwise)
all would be well. (My female colleague tells me that he only needs
the telephone line. Adds that gen_ tlemen don’t need any other.) I
i wouldn’t know. But, darn it, I resent the implication that Ron’s a
gentleman—he’s too good a guy to formed. Don’t lose weight over it,
be slandered like that. boys. Fellow Meds should not take
Anyone having dope on Joe Cant- these symptoms lightly—remember,
well, please submit. He must be too |it could happen to you!
well organized for us—he can’t be| MacGregor just can’t seem to esleading that quiet a life. ~ tablish clear title to a dietitian.
Red Norvo was privileged recent- |‘Tsk, Tsk! He also tells us that Macly in having as part of his audience |Q.’s affections have found a new
leading = pathologists Roberts and object, or should we say subject.
Smith. (Prof.) Charles has been Wondering what force on earth
paying up ever since. could possibly drag Spitfire BethOur advice to Dick Murphy, | une away from a cosy study table
who recently made the axiomatic | to, of all things, a concert, we
statement that gals are no longer | asked him—‘“blonde or brunette”
easy to find, is: try wearing that | —from traitorous “friends” standflashy C.0.T.C. uniform a little | ing near came the correction:
more. “They” say your whole | “Wrong question—should be ‘Ply_ yiewpoint changes-when you're in | mouth or Buick.” We're doing
the army. Major Hogan’s view- | our own guessing—you, too.
point changed very suddenly last Last but not least on our list is

young dream may turn out to be a
nightmare. Our answer to a maiden’s prayer, “Lightning”, seems to
be sort of on the well-known skids.
What’s the matter, Brooks, no spika
Inglis?

“Hank” Reardon and others too
insignificant to mention. Due to
censorship, the name of Major X
will only be mentioned in whispers.

The age of chivalry (?) is not
yet dead. Our little Prince “Charman” is still doing right by our
Audrey, even to the extent of giving her a lift across the watery
road during the recent rains. A
little “Errant Knightery” now and
then is relished by the best of men.

We were wondering at the notable
absence of one of the more prominent members of the Freshman
class during our week-ends. It
seems that there is more in New
Glasgow than meets the eye. Hy’a
Pres-s-s-s!

In pouches, packages and }2 Ib. tins.

Love is stated to destroy the appetite—something certainly has affected Ballem’s and Roy’s. The first
year boys can no longer get to supper. Something about the Hall and
LeMarchant Street, we were in
 

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
  

The dazed look on Dunsmore’s
face might have been caused by
more than one reason, other than
of being normal occurrence. For
instance, we understand the King’s
sleighride was minus the pleasure

ae ye
a

Fis ie a ;

a

- Sunday, when Lieut. Wickwire
took a spill. The gallant officer
_ found it very funny until he
se his superior at his elbow.

  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
   

i ees ue affirma
a memorandum to let you know,
Dear Hearts (quote Prof. Atlee)
that Gus Shea is back in circulation
with his hair growing in again (not

Msn had been sick, and/|a trim for all of three a and

yvered d Wiether Bink had had‘ went away, and Gus is shedding
er nursing care, Faithful unto | many tears. (Landlady says he uses

up as many as four pillows a

alia

of his attendance, due to the fickle
nature of a certain Glee Club executive.

We understand that Law is
still giving Medicine lessons in
love. The play’s the thing, these
days.

The Sigma Chi house has been a
hive of activity the last couple of

   

Nilson’:

THE BEST MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

 
 
  
   

eae un i ocumite ) Ne DALHOUSIE GAZETTE January 81, 1941

Tigers Lose First Game in

_|TIGER'S CORNER

by MUNRO and MacLEOD

Hoop Tilt, 41-26

SS tenses

 

 

 

THERE IS A GIRLS’ NIGHT ee grin: gh ae
._ |AND: A”CHANCE FOR MORE| .~V° Wit to 2st the other Slkow
show up, instead of ourselves, we

Navy Defence Stalls Dal Machine SPIRIT IN A GREAT GAME! will keine, of the gor aby:
Dalhousie Tigers went down to their first defeat of the! Come one, come all, first, second, | ly as girls of Dalhousie we want to

season on Tuesday evening at the Dalhousie Gym when oe fourth year, and all girl eee OUR NIGHT!

they fell before a powerful Navy quintet, 41-26, in a sched- | 4e"ts; whether new at College or

uled game of the City Senior Basketball League. As a result Jerse ag er

of this game Dalhousie and Navy are now tied in points for Pigcis tid eal Thursday night from

the leadership of the league. The Tigers were not up to/|g:45 until 10:00 and help the Girls’

their usual form in Tuesday’s game, with their passing and | Badminton Night in the gym!

shooting failing to pierce the Navy defence. | There are a good number of you

| who are interested perhaps with a |
DAL CUBS EDGED

few phone calls to help you along at|

OUT BY SOLDIERS first. What better time is there to |

VICTOR |
The Army hoopsters proved too | earn, have fun, and improve, than}

tering on two foul shots and Martin Seize) by |
strong for the Dalhousie Cubs on | 0" Girls’ Night, when there are nos R i te a R Oo $

threw in a nice shot from the cor- 9

ner to put the Tigers up two points. | Saturday evening at the Y Gym) ae ee ay ei, se us || HERE ARE SOME OF THE /

The N t th when they dropped the eollegians | “DY¥2y we want good players, too, MOST POPULAR NEW |
pecan yee, Oh EE Bree, DANCE NUMBERS

sure, with Thomas evening it up |50-41 in a scheduled game of the In- | for it is girls we want. But among
and Killam putting them in the

Ex. | 2S surely are some who can help the | | Duke Ellington’s Orchestra:
lead on two baskets. Thomas and

Wilson and MacKenzie Pace Tigers

    
     
    
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
 
   
  
   
   
   
    
      
   
    
     
    
   
    
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
   

 

ol tt

nee TH Ete

“CQ

 

ee

__Interfaeulty hockey is now well under way and seems
' to be the most popular interfaculty sport on the campus.
| _-—«*‘Two weeks ago the Engineers tore into the Dents in the
'_ opening game of the league just as if they were taking apart
a rusty boiler and the Dents co-operated by coming apart
at the seams. Last Friday the Meds had little difficulty in
_ dropping the boys from Commerce and it should be interesting to see what will happen when the Meds hook up with
the Engineers. |
In the Med-Commerce game one of the trickiest plays
of the season was seen when Al Sparks broke away from his
defence and scored on his own goal-tender. These Commerce boys sure are dangerous around their own nets.

 

 

 

 

Bates opened the scoring for the
Navy with a lay-up shot under the
basket. Wilson evened it up, regis
 

 

 

termediate Basketball Le. ;

ere Leagne other fellow. Everyone has, or soon | J Warm Valley
cept for a few minutes in the second . ; | | Flaming Sword
ean have something, that the other

 

 

 

: , | . aj-| half wl Si rt S
“The hares working meple on Sone tee Bans cote Ae rata PU" isow nxt, een i ant ache || {SM
the campus at the present time are New Interest In BE can “the Navy ‘lead. Mac- y ‘ “| “Boy! that’s showin’ them!” Tommy Dorsey’s Orchestra:

the members of the Auxiliary Training Corps who attend the P. T.
classes. Anybody who thinks that
these classes are sissy stuff should
drop around at the gym sometime
and see the way those boys twist
and bend (and grunt and groan.)
We heard last week that one fresh‘man has become so thin from the
exercise that he now has to drink
muddy water so that people will not
be able to see through him. Officials responsible for the classes
Say that the exercise will put the
boys in great shape, but they neglect to say what shape.

The game opened with the Army |
quintet taking the offensive. Young,
Army forward managed to drop the
ball into the basket several times to
put his team out in front. The Cubs
tried hard to keep up with the Army
forwards down the floor for many |but their efforts fell short. Euoart, | : ha tetane “a
eee On one of these attacks | the high scorer for the Army, con- (MUSICAL SNOBS—

acKenzie netted a basket for the |tinued his scoring spree for a total (Continued from page two)
prettiest shot of the night. The
play began to tighten up, and although the play was’not rough the
very speed of the two teams caused
many penalties, With four minutes
to go, the Dalhousie Tigers were on

Then let our motto be: Have fun,
keep in trim, and strive to succeed!”
, Oh yes, bring along your knitting, | |
lif you have any, in ease we get al |
crowd; and the departing hour is| |
‘not too late for last minute study |

)
1 { Star Dust
|| | Swanee River
: {Do You Know Why
lIsn’t That Just Like Love
Artie Shaw’s Orchestra: )
§ Star Dust
| Temptation :
§ Frenesi |
|| { Adiss, Mariquita Linda |
|| Leo Reisman’s Orchestra:

| . ° | The Last Time ; Paris
|'something which is himself and ex-|| j 7 ime I Saw Paris

i
aba | | What Makes a Song
| presses the aspirations of his age. | (Fresh as a Daisy
The musician, with the thinker | | le Be a
points down as the Army had amass- | Pa ace E ie || (Let’s Be Buddies
and artist, is the prophet of

. his|| Wayne King’s Orchestra: |
1 4 95 ; . i ~ :. > * ss pe
_ nee er fe perms tO 16 for thet ss But he’ is Held back by society. ||  § You Walk By |
UDS.

Without the “rapport” of musician;| (Goodnight Mother

Ping Pong at Dalhousie

This year has seen a revival of
interest in table-tennis, or as it is
more commonly called, ping-pong.
We are fortunate in having that human ¢yclone, Colin Smith, as manager. It is largely through his untiring efforts that ping-pong enjoys
its present popularity. An ever-increasing number of students are
now taking part in this pastime.

We have some of the finest pingpong players in the city right here
at Dalhousie, Indeed, when the “city

Leod on a breakaway for Dalhousie
failed to register,

The Dalhousie defence of Wilson
and Smith held down the Navy
scoring attempts and sent the Dal

| Across the Track Blues :
:
}

 

 

of 21 points and repeatedly kept the
Dal boys on the jump. At the end
of the first half the Cubs were nine

 

 

 

 

ys . f the short end of a 16—9 score. oy ae ‘ ot | se PS! rn ag ‘i Pl ea cae

Nafta inthe desiaining team. this champ” invades the Tiger’s lair, he Bates boosted this to twenty. for the he ieee oc | and a truly discriminating audience i rca wea |
year? The last two years swim- Sere. hie Fs eon. A team Navy. MacKimmie and _ Wilson spurt which threatened to put them | Ota ee cree sea laes aor Come in and Hear Them
ming staged a comeback at the|°! four or five players from Dal-| combined on two nice plays to bring | out in front. Led by Clayton Hut-| piste Wigs, Oe. Yo centuries, | | : :
University, but seems to have died noite Could bold nele er against the Dalhousie score to 13. The half chins, the Cubs threw in several bas- in ae Lie or ear | |
altogether this year. The last time|*"Y “am representing a city club. | ended with the score 20-14, with|;ots in chort order and took the lead (erent EMBlish composer, F |
we visited the Y.M.C.A. there was| In the fall a tournament was run | Dalhousie pressing hard, Pican the Army by one point. How- But we are snobs. se ||
a swimming pool there, and so why | off with that master of the art of % |

As the play got under way in the
second half, the two teams checked
their men well and there was no
scoring for the first few minutes.
Arnott took over the Navy attack
and netted nine points for the Navy.
Thomas again interrupted the Dalhousie combination time after time
and the Tigers were only able to
count on long shots. However, MacLeod and Martin managed to get in
close to boost the score to 30-22.
With eight minutes to go, MacKenzie scored one of his long shots, but
Arnott matched this as he got under the Dal basket. Wild passes
by Dalhousie were responsible for
many of their failures to score.

The Dalhousie defence tightened
up and Navy also was forced to re
their lead up to the end of the game |

so that the Dal team was still on the'| _ ea : EET |
short end of a 50-41 count. Lee t6e nae si:

ever, the Army put on the pressure
and weakened the Dal attack and
took the lead once more. They held

 

celluloid-chasing, Henry Reardon,
emerging as the winner. At the present time a ladder tournament is being conducted under the watchful
eye of Manager Smith. The Spring
Tournament is expected to get under
way in a short time. The winner will
play the winner of the Fall Tournament for the University Championship.

don’t we have some action before it
is too late. There are some excellent swimmers at the University
this year and we suggest that they
get together and see if they can’t
bring home some more glory to
their Alma Mummy.

The boxing enthusiasts seem to
have taken their rest beside the
swimmers. Perhaps the bugle-busters have lost interest this year because of the war-time ruling against
intercollegiate sport, but it would
seem that a meet could be arranged
with some club or other in the City
which would not be too tough on
the boys. Several of last year’s
Stars are back at college this year
and would probably welcome the
opportunity to loosen up—or get

|
|

The manager has created new interest in the game by forming a
ping-pong association in which the
players are classified according to
their standard of play. At the present time there are about forty members in good standing. Thie game has
become so popular that the three
tables are in continuous use.

ttt sessing

 
  
   
  
 
   
  

loosened up.

The latest news from the Ping
Pong Alley is that a certain individual has it all figured out that he
will be on top when the curtain is
drawn on the spring tournament.

Table-tennis doubles had never
been taken very seriously by Dalhousians until this year. It is now
perhaps more popular than singles,
partly due to the fact that it is a
more exciting game, and partly because of its novelty. Moreover,

ly on long shots. As the game drew
to a close the Dalhousie attack began to function, but they were unable to overtake the Navy and the
final whistle found the Dal boys on
the short end of a 41-26 count.

Wilson and MacKenzie, who were
’

This news should arouse those batwielders who think that their
chances are equally as good and

    
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
  

rk ff ee 5 x P '

RN \\ \ Mh
\y

doubles makes it possible for more
players to participate at the same

high scorers on the Dal team, kept
the Tigers in the game. Thomas!

epiiieaiiaitiind ila ae

vy
<

v ne *
Z ZA
Z A A

should also attract more competi- time. Arnott and Bates were the big | ZZ “i i
tors who may be incensed at this guns for the Navy. | Py B
individual’s audacity. There is an NOTICE The lineup: | CUE

old saying that “pride goeth before Interfaculty Hockey, Friday, Jan. Dalhousie: Smith 3, Martin 5,)

a fall”, which may or may not be
applicable to this case.

aor
: ee a

Wilson 5, Seaman 2, MacLeod 2, |
MacKimmie 2, MacRitchie 1, Mac- |
Kenzie 6. |

Navy: Bates 12, Killam 2, Stong |
3, O’Hara 6, Thomas 9, Arnott 9. |

31, 7 to 8, Arts & Science vs. Law.

o
\\\

S
A
y\

  

    

SK ced
Sy

‘ A

MOQ

*

See aA S .

NG
ee Ni

   

It's always ‘a date’ for
Brylcreemed men...

Wrong numbers? No, no!
Smart gals always ‘‘go”’ for pals
With Brylcreemed hair,

It’s tops in taste.

The touch of distinction,

As essential as the morning shave.
BRYLCREEM ; ; ;

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MEDS DOWN
COMMERCE

Medicine indicated that they will
be the team to beat in the interfaculty hockey league when they
overwhelmed Commerce last Friday
at the Arena.

Commerce showed up with only

 

Yes, when you are away your nightly telephone call says

gy ee

that you are well: not yesterday, not an hour ago, but

Tames the wildest hair. five men, but Medicine very kindly
donated the services of two of their r . . :
sie iPod dd seca LIL saat aed ge ip ny now. The very inflection of your voice tells them that

gall and Grant (after Commerce
had forfeited the game. But even
with these two players on their
team the Commerce team proved to
be too weak for the Meds,

Fights falling hair and baldness.
Brylcreem is the

Empire’s favourite.

Over 18,000,000 tubes and

   

youare well. Their happy voices tell you the same thing.

       
   
 

| Many men who find it necessary to travel take advan
 
    

v% *
ij
hebetds i. \
Pye
re :

 
     
   
    

A

      
   
  
 
 

Jars bought last year. ae a MacGregor and Strickland com- e .
So it must be good! mig | bined nicely for many of Medicine's tage of the attractive discount rates that are available to
ne =e scores, but were ably supported by .

or extra economy buy the entire Med team. Serymgeour ;
The big 50c tube or jar. o a and Matthew sparked the Commerce | pene _ after 7 P. M. These rates ap pl y to Sunday
Money-back guarantee. . attack. Defenceman Al Sparks gen
erously added a goal to the credit
of the Med team when he shot the
puck in his own net, to the astonishment of the Commerce goalkeeper.

Commerce: Mitchell, Sparks, Gibson, Matthew, Secrymgeour, Grant,
MacDougall.

Medicine: Conning, MacGregor,
Strickland, Bethune.

‘calls also, giving a week-end discount period on station
41-7

. ‘a Pp : : é : Y a
L . » No Alcohol
«No Gum
>» AY EIEN ane bt Tht eee ators SEAR PET OE agi

» No Soap

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

‘to-station calling that runs from 7 P. M. Saturday evejane clear to 4:30 A. M. Monday.
ARITIME TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE
COMPANY, LIMITED:

Grooms urnth Beem LT eee ead
Ju ‘ poate: ra ee a ihe

Ot re ae

 

fis
Miwy : :
tie, GM fx sical
