     

  

’ We

_

   

   

XN anday Gi enistice) at
3 p.m. for The McTier

| ane ‘rophy. Dal Grounds

Newfoundland Club: Sunday at

_ 2.45. Arts Building. Meting called

by A. Sparks, new president to de
cide year’s program and.collect dues.
sk *

Delta Gamma Dance: Nov. 20th,
to aid Community Chest. Naugler’s
Orchestra.

* k *

Glee Club will cast a three-act
play. “Spring Dance” by Phillip
Barrie. Men’s Common Room Nov.
8th, at 7 p.m. Everybody Out.

* * *

Record Concerts: First of a series
will be held next Tuesday at 7.30
p.m., 128 Oakland Road. Bach’s D

‘Minor Concerto, Mozart No. 38 Sym
phony, Emperér Concerto by Bee
- thoven. Dal students welcomed.

 

 

A gathering of those interested in
effective speaking and parliamen
:
Membership |

| tary procedure was held on Tuesday |

evening in the Arts Building.

Prof. G. F. Curtis of the Law|
School, who has given so much help
to speakers in the form of constructive criticism was absent, but was
nevertheless accorded the position of
Honorary Pres.. by a unanimous vote.
Allan Sparkes’ declination to accept
the presidency of the club was refused and he will be the prexy for
the coming year.

Class of ’41
Elect Officers

 

 

The senior class met on Thursday|Delta Gamma Society present the | the musical world are high in their| be features.
Past President} full band of the training ship H. M. | praise of the band’s entertainment
The Royal Can-| value.

noon in Room 3.
Forbes Mountain gave way. to Bain
Munro, who will preside until next
Spring, when life officers will be
chosen. The remainder of the new
executive council consists of: Rose
Goodman, vice-president; Ruth MacQuarrie, secretary; Frank Johnson,
treasurer.

Honorary president for the term)
is Dr. Wilson.

A motion was passed favoring the
passing over of the class funds to
the Arts and Science Society. The
three seniors now on the executive
of the A. and S. Society will conduct an investigation of the consti- |
tution in relation to the classes. |

The Convocation Week Commit- |

tee was chosen: Betty Bligh, Charles
Doyle and Forbes Mountain.

CANADA YEAR BOOK

Students who have more than
a passive interest in the affairs
of their native land may be interested in a note sent out by the
Dominion Bureau of Statistics,
announcing a special concession
in making the new “Canada Year
Book” available to bona fide students at 55¢ each, while they last.

Regularly the Year Book sells
for $1.50. The 1940 volume extends to over 1,200 pages, dealing
with all phases of the national
life, more especially those susceptible of statistical measurement.
Valuable information o* forestry,
mining, currency and banking,
agriculture and constitution and
government are features. A summary of the Sirois recommendations appears in the appendix.

Send to R. H. Coates, Dominion
Statistician, Ottawa.

 

      

. | Jerry Naugler’s

<ette

 

BY THE SEA”

 

VOL. LXXITI

 

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 8, 1940

oe foe oe Rees For Red Cross
In Delta Gamma Auspices November 17:

A rare musical treat will be pro- adian Navy

vided in the Dal Gymnasium one | for this excellent organization from | s

week from next Sunday when the ja wide area and local opicureans of | | Ralph Fitch and Ray Simpson will

C. S. Stadacona.

Lieutenant Pager will

Council Meeting

The Student Governing Body met
at 11 a. m. in the Arts Building, |
Sunday, November 3. Following is |
the summary of the meeting. |
1. Eflort to be made _ to
$250.00 to cover the costs of aa
Year Book. The Council will render |
every possible aid to present the |
students with this fine souvenir in- |
vestment, a better bargain this year |

than ever before.

The Year Book Committee chosen
consists of Webster MacDonald, Art

Peake, Ruth MacQuarrie with)
Henry Reardon as “ex officio” as |

representative of McCurdy Print.

2. Council representatives on the
University Book Store committee
were elected. They are Jack MacKenzie and Harry Smith.

3. Webster MacDonald, on behalf
of Dr. Richter, asks for recommendation for the subject of a talk by Dr.
Corbett of McGill, to be given at|
Studley soon, “The relation of the|
University to Community Life.”

4. Application from Doug “Shag- |
gy” Mahon to manage the “Bulletins” was accepted with ee |
approval.

 

5. The possibility of a a
match between teams of the C. O. T.
C. representing Dalhousie and Acadia Universites next Monday awaits
the approval of Major Hogan and
the powers that be. In such an
event a tea dance will probably be
held after the game,

Orchestra

BA A J ee

has chosen musicians |

on the dias conducting; intermission selections by Louise Bishop,

A full program is to

be published next week along with

be further partic ulars.

After some delay attributed to
tardy official release of the records, the Student Directory will
appear immediately after Armistice Day, according to the editor,
Webster Macdonald. The book
contains constitutions of the campus organizations, slates of all
the officers, and telephone numbers of faculty and students. The
editor, who has gathered in
something like $450 in advertising
monies, assuring a good profit to
the students’ council, has taken
the cry raised before now by the
Gazette Business Manager —
“PATRONIZE OUR (Directory

ADVERTISERS.”

 

WHY NOT A STUDLEY SOCIETY?
(An Editorial)

The extended, weary wrangle over the Arts and Science
Society’s financial relations with the classes seems to be
coming at last to a point. The two senior classes have voicec
dissatisfaction with the present constitution of the society.
and the Arts-Science executive seems ready to co-operate in
drawing up a new framework of laws for a more workable

organization.

In so far as finances are concerned,
to have pocket money for promoting their own functions,
there seems to be no reason why they should not keep their
funds. With four satisfied classes behind it the larger society
would never be stuck for backing if it had on the bill a dance
But the classes and the society must
settle their differences before any progress is possible at all.

The answer appears to be the formation of a Studley

Society to which every member of each class would belong
as a corollary to class membership.
(Continued on next page)

or play or the like.

ED BALL “

¢ TICKETS, $3.00 COUPLE ¢ Cabaret Style, Dancing 9-2

Student Menstiiok Class 42 Wants °
Ready Next Week = Arts-Science Club

'Re-Tailored

| The class of 42 met in Room 13,
|Tuesday at noon when a new slate
,of officers was chosen for the term
| 1940-41.
‘included the forming of a committee
the Junior Prom after
Christmas, and a definite stand was

 

to “swing”

‘taken by the class concerning the |
“proposed sinking” of their funds

in the Arts and Science Society.

The new officers are John Fraser
(President), Kay Hicks (Vice-President), John Tasman (Treasurer),
| Penny Patchell (Secretary).
| (Continued on page 3)

   
   
   
    
   
  
  
   
    
    
    
 

if the classes wis!

   
 
  
  
    
   
    
  
    
 
  
    
  
   

  

   

of the

Car

| Hawkins Day

No. 6

'INTER-COLL. DEBATES

SODALES, DELTA GAMMA.
SELECT ORATORS FOR TRIPS

Farquhar and King to Meet Mount Allison.
Farquhar and Mader to Acadia.

 

| Debaters to represent Dalhousie in intercollegiate events
this month-end were chosen from women’s and men’s debatling groups which met on Tuesday. Ted King and Walter
\‘“Goodie’’ Gaudet were picked from Sodales as a team to
| meet Mount Allison debaters at Sackville, Nov. 22nd, while
|Margaret Farquhar (leader) and Kileen Mader were chosen
by Profs. Bennet and Page to represent Delta Gamma girls
mn Nov. 29th at Acadia.

| ¢ |
| ‘ ;
j

 

Graham, Mallory and
as well as the two sefor the honor in

Thurgood,
lin Smith,
competed

 

SADIE WAS A LADY

lected,

 

Sadie Hawkins Day was cele- || the Sodales meeting, speaking to the
brated with traditional pomp on || resolution, “That higher citizenship
many American campuses, and at || can be produced by government legleast two Canadian ones. At||islation”, which King and Gaudet

“Hawkins Arrives |} will attack at Mt. Allison. Profs:

Antigonish,

students go into || Curtis, Richter and Mercer were the

Saturday” —. ac
Incognito—male

| hibernation on juages.

 

cording to headlines in the St. Grace: Burris, Eleanor Taylor and
\| F. X. “Xaverian”. Moira Crowe also tried for the DelAt the University of. Alberta || ta Gamma team. Moira was picked
1} co-eds ran riot with 2 special || as substitute for the Acadia trip in
|] pink-paper edition of the “Gate- || Case one of the team can’t go, Mar| way”, which was full of threats | garet Graham will do the managing.
|| of what would happen to “the ||
|| pursued” when Hawkins Day||TMPRESSIVE DISPLAY

dawned.

The University of Western Ontario is planning to hold a Sadie
in the near future.

BY DALHOUSIE C.0.T.C.

The Dalhousie contingent of the
'C. O. T. C. have been receiving many
‘complimentary remarks on the way

re tele route march was performed

Moot Court Judge ie Sunday afternoon.

Disputes Dean’ Ss Authority | : The “Highland” bagpipe and bugle
| band led the lengthy procession of

one case on the/“threes”. The majority of cadets
docket this week in the Supreme|really began to look like Canadian

 

There was only

 

j}appellants were
ald and MacMillan,

Other important business

to the Glee Club to provide more music and dancing.
| picked the musicals over the drammers.

 

biggest Dance" 7

Moot Court. The case, Jones et al! officers in training.

vs. Caesar, was in the capable hands! This coming Sunday the boys will
of G. Tamaka, L.C.J., Anderson, L.| have a church parade at All Saints
J., and Keddy, L.J. Counsel for the| Cathedral, 11 a.m. service, and
“Sandy” MacDon-|they have every intention of showLI.B. For the|ing the public that the Dalhousie
(Continued: on page 3) unit will be second to none this year.

DIP oO”

 

 

 

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion

 

More Musical or Dramatic Shows?
If the opinion of the Dal student body counts for anything, it is up
A solid bloc of 51%
25% picked the soliloquies and
thought they should be mixed about
and probably just go to the Glee Club

the action-packed dialogue, while 9%
evenly. 15% said they didn’t care,
shows for the dance, anyway.
* tk ok *
What Value has the Arts & Science Society?

Scattered returns from various precincts throughout the Campus
indicate that we should have turned this question over to the Third Estate.
Except for four apparently aggrieved persons who landed on the in
| quisitor and declared that the value of the Society is $109 of Class ’43’s

money, no two gave the same answer. One person optimistically said,
“lots”; one thinks it is the pivot around which the whole university
revolves; another thinks it keeps the professional students from walking
over the corpses of the Studleyites. All except one who just wouldn’t
know thought it had some value.
i.e eee
Is the Students’ Council Right Size

12% of Dalhousians think the Council is too large, 2% think it is too
small, 14% don’t know what they think, but 72% apparently are convineed that the trouble with the Council is not its size. The Fifteen in any
other size or shape would be sae as ce

* *%

In a spirit of deep humility we apologize for two glaring errors in
this column last week. The number of those favouring the option of
summer military training was given as 8%. That ought to have been 84%.
We also gave Wendell Willkie 9% of the votes, which should have been
17%. ‘But we picked the right man, didn’t we?

  
 
   

 

 

:

 

Sten enntenenetseneeee

 
sd in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of

y McCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle St., Halifax
| GAZETTE STAFF

; B 4538
B 9586
B 4421
B-2717
B 9746
B 3148
B-1516
B 9745
B 1049
B 1917

LACK WOOD
: JACQUI CAHAN 0 lange: ROSS GRAHAM
iditor: RO

usiness Manager: INE wy lige hie
istan Business Manager:: MARY JOHN

i. © att ee

ah eat
as ie ae eee
Reng Be oa ge TS pa 8
OTe a cee ee oe
§. he 8 22 '
oe 2s See. Vo oa 8 s

SON
_ - WEATHERVANE IN THE WIND
: . - T believe we Canadians are artistically sterile . . . We neither create ourselves, nor

Gppreciate creative activity in others. We have no great literature . . . Our
interesting but not inescapable; our music negligible in the notice of the world”’

Under the title, “This Canada”, a series of twelve radio
talks by Arthur L. Phelps, Professor of English in United
_ College (University of Manitoba) has been published by the
__ CBC. The speaker made a 14,000 mile motor trip aeross Canada
_ and back in search of material for the broadcasts, given last
; g. His commentary on Canadian types and communities
eveals a nation made up of widely diversified groups in vary_ Ing environments, scarcely knit together at all by any common
_ knowledge of each other’s background or any appreciation of

_ ach other’s problems.
___ ‘The statement above is one of his conclusions about Can__ ‘ada, not an unusual conclusion, for most of those who have observed Canadian culture, or the lack of it, concur. It is stated
‘im a very forthright fashion, undoubtedly for the purpose of
_ trying to arouse Canadians into a consciousness of themselves
as a.people. Certainly our education does not give us this selfawareness, for the typical product of our schools and colleges
_ g¥aduates with only the haziest idea of what that vast area of
Fr" ae beyond the little limits of his own province or county

. my ah To begin criticism at home, we of Dalhousie are particu_ farly prone to see the problems of the French Canadian, the
_ Upper Canadian (they’re still saying it), or the westerner in
_ terms of the maritime environment—those few of us, that is.
__ who are conscious of the rest of Canada at all, except when 9
national student body becomes projected into the headlines over
a sensation of subversiveness. .
+. What sort of a picture, for instance, do we get when we
___ think of Saskatchewan? Most likely golden seas of wheat an
Sweating harvesters and whirling combines. Professor Phelps
in his talk on that province tells of nitiful dearth, of lean and
dust-bitten men, of only one farm kitchen out of 75 having
running water piped into it, or less than 40%. of the houses
__ with more than four rooms, of fuel scarcity, bitter winters and
ee poverty. : I

_ . The average yearly salary for school teachers since 1930,
es, he tells us, has been about $375, the average monthly cash income of 130 doctors in the drought area $27 per month. “I sav
p to you Easterners: your West, the West that helped to make)
'___- you, is dying on its feet—if social disintegration means death.”
Ny ie on _ Ignorance of our people and their problems is sure to breed
__-unconcern. Dozens of our most brilliant university graduates
| drift off each year to jobs in the U.S. A. With them goes the
_ genius from which a native culture might spring, from which
Bere), might grow the leadership we lack; and having gone thev
__-Searcely ever return.

___ With political and sentiméntal ties drawing us eastward to
a Europe and geographical and economic considerations binding
us inevitably to the south, it is extremely difficult for us to be

_ ourselves, for us to be anything but a hybrid nation in culture,
_ derivative, imitative, non-creative. But we could begin by try
Mn to reduce our insufferable ignorance of our fellow countryre en, Canada was nation enough to enter a war by her own act:
ei already she has begun to centralize and look to & more self
_ Sustaining economy. Our external problem may force us at last
_ to get at grips with our internal problems. All of us have
duty in this respect.
_ As Professor Phelps notes: “It was as Canadians we com
- mitted ourselves to this world of war... our problems . . . still

Canadian problems ... We. must be more than a
rvane in a European wind. We are Canadians.”

 

7

(on. eb

‘7
Viheg? if

e

WHY NOT A STUDLEY SOCIETY?
(Continued from page one)

__ The Arts and Science organization has not any faculty
3 in the sense that Engineers and Commerce societies have. It
_ never did have and it never will. The only purpose worthy of
its continuation is that of bringing together the students of
_ Studley campus for joint projects and programs. But just now
As dividing the campus into warring camps with little demaogues capitalising on the dissention as an excuse for hurling
eir verbal tomatoes.
If there were a society to which the student would belong
Bie by v ue of his class membership, and to which a small per
__ @apita fee were paid by the classes, officers to be chosen at
__ @ joint session and class presidents to be members of the
_ executive, then we would have an organization better suited tc
our needs. Such a set-un would not differ markedly from the
_ present one, financial and representation difficulties would be
_ removed, and the hew name would remove important misconceptions as to its function.
___. As for the present executive of Arts and Science, it is ovr
' opinion that its continuation at the head of any revamped bod
ich might result from the suggested move would be desirable.
has given vigorous leadership, no one will deny that, and
r is something sadly needed in all our campus affairs.
only people likely to wreck an opportunity for a final
slactory settlement of the whole problem are those
tled few who don’t want to play any more because the
ss were charged less this year than classes before
2 class of ’43 would be paid off in a reasonable settle= name of common sense let us not allow any
t a long-needed Studley unity.

4
Ss ; 4
: = 7° a
CUES i

This book, the autobiography of
‘Ralph Connor’, is the life-portrait
of a great Canadian. It is a living
saga not only of the development of
a rich personality but also of the
creation of a young and virile nation
from the growing pains of pioneer
days to the more mature if no wiser
country of 1989. Well-known to millions of his readers under his penname of ‘Ralph Connor’, the autobiography is the gripping story of the
actual life of which Black Rock, The
Man from Glengarry and countless
others are the fictional embodiment.
Postscript to Adventure is a vivid
and intimate description of an indomitable spirit who threw himself
wholeheartedly into the most stirring
events of his day.

Ecco homo! It is doubtful if the
Clan Gordon has ever had, or will
ever have again as ardent a supporter as ‘Ralph Connor’. Never

‘does this man from Glengarry forget

that he is a Highlander and to the
end of his days, in spite of his calling, is prone to look upon other
races as ‘lesser breeds without the
law.’ As a minister of the Church
of Scotland, he is determined to
earry the doctrines of John Knox and
Calvin to the farthest corners of the
new land. The result is a Canadian
epic. From the forests of Glengarry
he passes to Toronto university and
from thence to the wild lands beyond
the Canadian Rockies. All through
this period he developes his forensic
powers which in a short time were
to serve him in good stead. His experiences during the war period form
perhaps the most interesting section
of the book. It is then that he meets
the great personalities of his times—
Asquith, Theodore Roosevelt, Sam
Hughes, Laurier, Woodrow Wilson
and the rest. As Chaplain of the
Cameron Highlanders, he sees front
line action overseas. On his return,
after the annihilation of his regiment, he becomes more or less a
Canadian ambassador of good will to
the United, States where he points

AUTUMN JOY

— A SHORT SHORT-SHORT STORY —

Hugh Baines was a thin, wiry man
with a bad limp caused by one of the
pieces of shrapnel that had lodged
in him during the World War. Until
May 1940, he and Lucy had lived in
town on his pension, but the high
cost of living, the increase in rent
of their flat, and the opinion of the
doctor that the country would improve his health had culminated in
the purchase of a small farm. They
had settled in this fertile valley renouned for its truck gardening, for
the government was entreating the
people to raise more crops to send
to Britain during the conflict with
Hitler. Hugh and Lucy came to
their new home feeling that now they
could help win the war.

Their slight experience with farming had not prepared them for the
obstacles before them. The scarcity
of farm labor, the impossibilitv of
obtaining domestic help, the high
price of feed, the excessive heat and
the drought that made it necessary
to carry water from the river, and
almost ruined their crops. A forest
fire raging round their valley for two
weeks threatened at any moment to
destroy their woodlot and sweep into
the valley. Hugh was not strong
enough to go to fight the fire, but in
his disgust at his own impotence he

worked twice as hard as he should,| grass with cows spread over it like
and frightened Lucy to death by!

fainting in the garden. The hired
with so much difficulty married without telling them, and immediately
demanded higher wages. The deer
and racogns destroyed all their corn
and some of the oats and turnips.
They had come through the contest
with nature.with enough to pay the
summer’s expenses and food for the
winter.

Luey bustled quickly around her
kitchen preparing breakfast. She
had come to love the community with
its sturdy independence and its glad
co-operation. At the monthly Red
Cross meetings and sewing circles

and church teas that women drove ‘help feed them.

LITERARY

POSTSCRIPT TO ADVENTURE

| golden stubble of the oats; the small
man Jim, that they had obtained)

$1.00 sends 300

SWEET CAPORAL or WINCHESTER cigarettes or $1.00 will
send either 1 Ib. of OLD VIRGINIA
ipe tobacco or 1 Ib. of SWEET
CAPORAL FINE CUT (with ae
papers) toCanadians serving inC.A.SF.
overseas only.

$2.50 sends 1,000
cigarettes to an individual or unit

Address ‘*Sweet Caps,”’
P.O. Box 6000, Montreal, P.c.

out to well meaning but dilatory
Americans the desperate plight of
the Allies. Returning to Canada in
1917, he tries desperately to restore
some semblance of Canadian unity
out of the benighted chaos that followed the introduction of conscription. In the bitter days after the
war, he plays a phenomenally successful part as an arbitrator of
industrial disputes. The last picture
he gives us of himself is preaching
from John Calvin’s old pulpit at
Geneva, as he strives for the united
moral support of Christian churches
everywhere behind the chicanery of
the League of Nations.

‘Ralph Connor’ as revealed in the
pages of his autobiography stands
out as a sincere and courageous
figure, waging a never-ending battle
against the forces of evil and injustice. He is the church militant
in the best sense of the phrase. In
the light of the present war it is
interesting to note how he, as a man
of God, justified his participation in
a conflict opposed to all Christian
principles. Here is what he says:

“To me the cause of the Allies
was then a sacred cause, in complete harmony as I felt with the
tenets and principles of the religion I professed. It was the
cause of human freedom and justice toward weak and defenceless
people against the tyranny of
grasping national ambition and
military aggression.’

This is typical of the magnanimous
spirit of the man. The key-note of
| Bis life seems to have been courage

whether in vanquishing the re|doubtable Arthur Meighen in debate,
in glorying in the dangers of the
frontier or in rebuking President
| Woodrow Wilson for the tardiness of
the American war effort. In the
passing of ‘Ralph Connor’ goes a
truly great Canadian. Artist, crusader and idealist—no narrow spirit
of denominationalism cramped his
soul. Canada will not often produce
men such as he.

“Is there a run on the Bank’?”’

Just withdrawing my reserve of Sweet Caps.”

*Nlo

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

Farmers’ Milk is

RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME
YOU’LL LIKE IT.

— lr”

FARMERS’ LIMITED

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

t | speee
!

After any Show
or

Before any Meal
Think of

The

Green Lantern

five miles in a horse and buggy to
attend she had been made more welcome than she had ever been in
the city and had come to admire
their cheerfulness in the face of dis|aster. If frost struck their strawberries or tomatoes they were
ruined, but no one complained.
“I must finish my preserved crabapples this morning so I can go to
gather beech nuts this afternoon,”
she thought, “the woods are so love\ly now.” Hugh brought the milk in,
and sat down to his breakfast. As
Lucy brought his tea she saw he was
tired and despairing and a adden |
fear seized her that he might want
to go back to town.

Hugh, puffing on his pipe, limped
slowly toward the barn to tell Jim
to get ready for the plowing. It
seemed foolish to plow when he did
not know if he would be here to
plant in the spring. Suddenly he
realized that Autumn had come again
with all its beauty, and its tinge of
sadness mixed with the joy and
promise that the world would awake
yet again in the new beginning of
spring. As he breathed the crisp,
cool air that was the wine of life,
his gaze wandered over the crazy
quilt arrangement of the fields of
the valley; the green of the after
|
|
The National Fish Company, Limited

 

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

| Degrees: B.A., B.Sc.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classies, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Se.

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

pawns on a chessboard; the pale
weatherbeaten houses and shabby
barns; the gold of the birch trees and
the brown of the beeches; and above
that the mingled scarlet, yellow, and
orange of the maples melted into the
green of the spruce and the bluishpurple haze of the sky as the hills
disappeared into space. Gradually
his soul filled with a new hope. Jim
would work this winter in the lumber
woods. He and Lucy would live here
this winter on his pension, while he
cared for his animals. Next spring
they would start again to raise more
crops than ever. The people of
Britain must be fed, and he would

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
 

   

as “Betty”.

, /

Bi

is

Hf
7a,
7
eae
'
1
i} ‘.

wie tata
, 7

ce ,
el

x0

ong ago on Prince Edward Is
  

; Not

os land a young girl first opened her

ad “y :

pda al
we

—

epee

 

|| Henry Birks &
1 a“ Sons

s eyes in Charlottetown. Elizabeth

Bligh they christened her, but today
en our campus she is better known

err

Betty first went to school in Kent
7 -yille, Nova Scotia, at the King’s
- County Academy. Besides taking a

high school course she attended

_ special courses in Art at Acadia Uni
versity. During her last year Betty
found time to be editor of the school
paper, “The Academy Mike” and
also Art Editor of the Year Book.
In 1937 Elizabeth entered Dal as
a Freshette on a Regional Entrance
Scholarship. Studies claimed her
every attention and it was not till
her sophomore year that Betty started to take an active part in Campus

life. That year she was elected

vice-president of the “Pi Beta Phi”
sorority.

Last year Miss Bligh was elected
president of the Sorority and has
held the office for three terms up
to date. On the House Committee
of Shirreff Hall Betty was Junior
representative and also held the
same position on the Delta Gamma
Executive. This last summer the
sorority selected her as their delegate to the 34th Biennial Convention of the Pi Beta Phi’s at Pasadena, Californa.

This year Betty is President of
Shirreff Hall and Social Chairman
of Delta Gamma. Midlothian claims
her as an active member and besides all this, she is President of
the Dalhousie Pan Hellenic Society.

Come May, Betty will receive a
Bachelor of Science degree, majoring in Biology, and will have completed a Lab ‘Technician’s course as
well. A very capable young lady,
and one whom we feel will go a long
way with her potentialities. Good
luck Betty!

Class °"42 Wants—

Continued from Page One

Two-thirds of the meeting carried
a motion which refuses financial aid
to the Arts and Science Society in
the light that such an action would
sacrifice class individuality and enthusiasm, and tend toward much
eonfusion in the event of holding
class social functions.

Concerning the Arts-Science fuss,
a motion forwarded by John Windebank was adopted suggesting that
the executive of the class of °42
meet to define more clearly their
final stand for or against the Arts
and Science Society. Now we’re getting somewhere!

What Is

It is the new science of
precious stones and precious metals. It offers exact knowledge and assurvance of value in all your
\} purchases.

re The qualified student is
_ known as a_ Registered
_ Jeweller, and Birks retain

' one for your protection.

 

 

 

 

eS

} Soe
ret

| Diamond Merchants

er ee

   

wr ae

‘

| principal of schools lost his position

 

+

4 late +}
ny ‘ ; : ‘ »
i

 

Chapter Six

The Unravelling of Corporal McGinty or Keep the Conversation
Cleaner If You Can

When Roy Atwood woke up (or
thought he did) in the teeny weeny
hours of the night after the Glum
Club show and was confronted by
the unattached head of Rufus Rayne
perched on the bedpost, nodding
from side to side and singing “I
ain’t got no body”, he made a memo
to the effect that he would never
again be beguiled into drinking so
much as a demi-tasse of his own
coffee and crawled back under the
bedclothes there to woo Morpheus
anew. On getting back to work in
the morning he found that the whole
episode of the evening before had
been misrepresented to him by his
caffeinated senses: that Corporal
McGinty was only playing a prank
in stuffing some Atwood beef-stew,
left over from dinner into the cash
box, that in getting into the till and
pulling the drawer shut after him he
was only doing a version of the Indian rope trick and meant no harm,
that King Karl’s dawg wasn’t a
blood hound after all, but a paying
customer with a perfect right to his
seat and just as fine an appreciater
of legs as you and I (well, you, anyway), that the heap of entrails in
the glum club room was really a
heap of stockings left there by the
chorus and that the shrieks and dull
thuds were really the band after all,
only the band wasn’t the band but
Carry Hopbrain’s orchestra which
wasn’t rightly speaking an orchestra
either. So that as you ean plainly
see if you have an eye in your head
at all, the whole thing was an immense relief both to the characters |
involved in the story and the author |
of Rufus Rayne.

Exit Sammy Skunk.

The one perplexing feature of the)
whole perplexing feature was that |
Rufus Rayne was still missing, but |
since Wilbur P. Fizzleque (pronounced Fizzleque) had volunteered to
take Colyly Sallyfan home, no one |
minded about Rayne being gone for
a time, Meanwhile H. Rubbermug
Smythe wishing, with typical French
logic, to tidy up the story, had work- |
ed his way painfully down the flag- |
pole despite Pekid’s pellets, and.
Red Pain come Saturday night, had)
been removed from Joan Gloomy- |
trees bathtub and led blindfold out |
of the building, a madder but a
whiter man. )

 

 

 

It was Sammy Skunk who solved |
the riddle of the missing Rufus by
pointing out that Red Pain was in
reality Rufus Rayne all the time,
and that Lester de Pester, janitor de

 

luxe of the Arts Club, had seen| Who'll take the bitter with the sweet,
through the Red whiskers to the real | And accept any bid they meet.

Rufus.

What Sammy did not know, as he
trundled unsuspectingly back to
King Karl’s hunting woods in one

of the U. S. Navy’s obsolete mine-| If any one should contemplate,
Sweepers, was that Rayne furious at| Calling a Senior for a date

the exposée was already hatching a| Be warned, your efforts will be nil, | when the lights came up, there stood
dire plot in which the equanimity of For they have all been through the | Cindy with her gown on buekwards.

the peaceful Lester was intricately
and inexplicably interwoven.

And that, my little darlings, is all |
we can stand tonight. |

)
Supreme Court— |
(Continued from page one) |

respondents, Jack Hartigan, K. C.,
and Rogers, LI.B.

The litigation arose on an action
of defamatory slander whereby a

 

| due to a trustee bringing up for discussion information relating to the,
said principal’s moral character. The
case was decided on qualified privilege and express malice. Anderson
rene Keddy, L.J.’s, found for the respondents, while Tamaki, L.C.J “9 |
found for the appellants. .
At one time in the proceedings |
MacDonald, K.C., elicited the ap-|
plause of the spectators when, in,
answer to the question of Judge
Tamaki, “Where did Dean MacDonald get the right to be quoted as an
| authority in this Court?” made an| swer, “He is a graduate of the Cape
‘Breton Law School, my lord.”

 

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
       

©

 

Ve * re
; re xy SS cih rs
i
r YS. Oe. oo! Wrete Ti a —
- he ae
hd
. 1 i

SE ’N STUFF

|

{

 

|

| We have heard through reliable
‘sources that MacKenzie is steering
'clear of Truro. It’s alright now
'Mac, Fanny wouldn’t recognize you
with that transplanted tooth-brush.

The
Third Estate

Are you in favour of intercollegi
ate debating at the present time, Speaking of Truro, Fergie seems
when all other intercollegiate ac- | to have made good connections
tivity has orn Renee while at camp. Why don’t you want
‘it in the Gazette, Jack?

Marion Moore, 4th year Arts: ..... r

Sure, I think it is a good idea, f
especially at the present time, just
because there is no other intercollegiate activity. Intercollegiate de
bating should be encouraged.
* a %

* * *

BS *

The power of women must be
wonderful. We wonder why Gordie
Wilson didn’t get to Wolfville last
week-end. Has Barb. been hearing
things ?

Colin Smith, 2nd year Arts:

No, most of the fellows who have
five or six classe and C.0.T.C. have
not the time to debate. It’s all right
for the girls, of course, they have
lots of time.

ee oe

Last Friday I say Johnny MacLean and Eileen Mader holding
hands in the Physics Lab. Have you
forgotten Alice (Truro) so soon?
(New Glasgow paper please copy).

_ ®

Louise Bishop, 3rd year Arts:

Yes. I think intercollegiate debating is of especial value at the
present time because it helps maintain a spirit of cooperation between
the colleges.

x
xe Om

What prompts Link Dumont’s
sudden desire to learn how to handle
women. Can we help?

& *

We wonder why Barry and Gwen
broke up. Several rumors have
reached our ears but when we interviewed Barry he said, quote “I
have nothing to say.” Too bad,
Barry, Gwen says, quote “He wasn’t
behaving properly.”

6 ee

Carly Sullivan, 4th year Science:

In view of the president’s statement, and the ruling laid down by
the Canadian Universities, definitely
no. I think this ruling specified
that there should be no _ intercollegiate activity. *

mC hae va

e *

Who said those “big” sturdy men
were the steady kind.. A milkmaid
comes from Digby to the big city
and what happens? “Stew” Skinner
drops the old flame and goes right
after the new one with definitely unmannerly attentions.

Ed Lewis, post grad:

Yes, I think that sort of thing
should be encouraged right now. A
debating team is small and travelling
expenses not great. Debating should
be encouraged as much as possible.

* * *

- as at

Webster Macdonald, Ist year Law:
I think debating should go on re- We have definite proof that there
gardless of the war. There is no| iS more professional courtesy among
ruling against it as there is against | the engineers than any other prointercollegiate sport, and the money|fession. We have for an example
has been budgeted for it, so why|the blooming romance of Bob W.
not?—Say your not going to quote) and Madeline. She is a steno down
me—this is strictly off the record,|at Tech and the boys down =
|

—my mind is on other things right If that isn’t

The
Pig Sty

Fables from the Itch: Freshettes. |
At any time it’s hard to find,
A Senior with an open mind.

don’t horn in a bit.

 

la brotherly feeling what is it.

 

 

 

Did “Ducky” quit just because he |

didn’t like being talked about in the|
“Sty”.. Rather flattering for us, but
|it loeks like “Dotty” is coming ini
for more than her share of atten
 

 

But Freshettes are made of sterner | tion.
stuff, ) See
They'll date ’em all with dough We are led to believe that the re- |

 

enough, hearsals for the production of ‘Cineae had their bright spots.
‘During the transformation scene, |

 

mill. HORT
But the Freshettes all have different) Have you heard about the cruel |
slants, Sergeant. He was rotten to the
They'll go with anything wearing | Corps.
pants. | bas
(After Anon.) | Also speaking of the “Sucker”

x *

a

| Dances, it looked if this were
anmy week instead of Navy week at
the Hall. The gaiety of the party
jexcited the envy of even the tea| drinking Phi Delts.

a a

as

 

The double-cross of the week is
awarded to Shirley. After calling
the Hall and getting a date, he didn’t
show up. Didn’t she measure up to
specification, Jack.

* *

There will be a lot of people talking about their operations this week.
We've been trying to figure whether
the Clinic was a Medical Institution

or a Date Bureau.
*

 

 

*
He might have deserted the campus for the army—but it didn’t or
| Reynolds long to discover the new
girl at the Hall. Fair Exchange fa |
no lottery though, is it?
* * cd

* *

When two red-heads come in vio
lent contact, something ignites. For
proof of this interesting bit of

The current season “Sucker
Dances” are drawing the usual, or
unusual crowd. We understand that
the hit of the evening last Saturday

chemical lore, see the Glee Club Exwas Kinley and Co. at “Arms” |ecutive. |
practice. Aftermath in the Dalhou- - R* )
sie Woods. Why was Tasman at the Sig. Hal- |

a a

low’een party with a certain prominent Glee Club executive. Is the
“Lonesome Pole” going to be lonesome again. Why was “Penny”
| sore.

 

We understand the King’s Hallow’een party was a “Howling” success. .““‘Webbie” was the most popular girl there.

 

    

CAPITOL|

 

 

Se ee ae et ee ae

Pri ’ Pe ey ee ee ¥ : 2} s iit f r S i
PO ee ae EP a

f * a

Dre

LAMEMNON, sitting in his wooden hoss’,
Smoked Picobac to make the Trojans come across.

 

bo

® Who would not—and does not—“go” for the rich,
ripe aroma of Picobac? And its nutty flavour is
equally enticing. It is the pick of Canada’s Burley crop
—always a mild, cool, sweet smoke. Students may feel
that the charms of the Iliad are professorially overtated; but not the charms of Picobac!

also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH . 15¢
14-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN - 65¢

  

 

 

OXFORD

Today and Saturday
“SAPS AT SEA”
with Laurel and Hardy
and “MILITARY ACADEMY”

Monday and Tuesday

“DANCING CO-ED”
and “HALF A SINNER”

Wednesday and Thursday
“FIGHTING 69th”
Starring George Brent

Pat O’Brien & James Cagney
and “CONGO MAISIE”

THEATRE ~- HALIFAX

LAUGH WEEK AT

THE CAPITOL
Today — Sat. -— Monday

|
LORETTA YOUNG and |
MELVINA DOUGLAS in
“HE STAYED FOR
ORPHE Us
|
|

Today and Saturday

“ON THE SPOT”

and “RIDE, TENDERFOOT,
RIDE!”

| i
Monday — Tuesday — Wed.

“LUCKY CISCO KID”
and “STRANGER ON THE
THIRD FLOOR”

BREAKFAST”

     
     
   
   
   
   
      

O

Tuesday — Wed. — Thurs.

JAMES STEWART and
ROSALIND RUSSELL in

“NO TIME for COMEDY”

 

 

 

CASINO

Today — Monday — Tuesday

GARRICK

Today and Saturday

‘DR KILDARE GOES HOME’

and “TOM BROWN’S

“MOON OVER BURMA” SCHOOL DAYS”

with Dorothy Lamour
Preston Foster - Robt Preston

Monday —- Tuesday — Wed.

“ALL THIS AND
HEAVEN, TOO”
and
“I CAN’T GIVE YOU ANYTHING BUT LOVE, BABY”

EXTRA!
LONDON CAN TAKE IT

 

you
GET THE
LAUGHS

My lad, be wise, go Brylcreem-ize

Hair like a haystack always rates a laugh, yet it’s so easy to have
that well-groomed look. BRYLCREEM—

@ Checks annoying dandruff
and falling hair; avoids
embarrassment.

@ Fights off baldness; encourages
luxuriant hair growth.

     

a eRe ee

fomy Saas] bee
es ee ek
rs Pre at

@ Keeps stubborn hair soft, in place
all day, but never ‘‘greasy”’.

@ Revitclizes the scalp, restores
lustre and sheen to dry, lifeless
hair,”

Brylcreem is the Empire's first choice hair dressing tonic; over
18,000,000 tubes and jars sold yearly. Get the new 25c size tube
from your dealer today. For extra economy buy the big 50c tube
or jar. Money-back quarantee.

BRYLCREEM

4-15R

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING TONIC
No Alcohol—No Gur —No Starch—No Soap

 

VS

. _
vii . {r# i a aoe. a vat 4
Pa | y i " ay

 
 
 
  
  

 
  
 
   

   
 
    
    
   
     
  
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

yeniors Down Redmen

ter Stiff Battle

___ MacIntosh, MacDonald and Neilson Score With MacRitchie and
_-——s*wPhilllips Converting. — Tigers Show Spirit and Skill
mere. ae In the Contest.

The Tigers dug their claws into Wanderers last Saturday

ys: afternoon and left them there until they had shaken a 13—3
victory out of the City team that had forestalled a possible

shot at the McCurdy Cup by the collegians. The Reds were

“dogged by costly fumbles and poor place-kicking and were not
- able to withstand the attack of the Dal fifteen.

 

 

The Tigers’ first score came in the®

_ latter part of the first period when

Alex MacIntosh picked a short cross
field kick by Joe Fiendel out of the

ele “Yair to knife through the Wanderers’
' three-quarter line. Bus Phillips con_ verted the try without difficulty.

Fiendel again set up a scoring
play that put the Tigers well in the
lead when he made a long brokenfield run to put Web MacDonald
over with Ian MacGregor’s help.
Norm MacRitchie made good the
convert to make the score 10—).

In the second half the Wanderers
came back strong. Carrying the
fight to the Tigers, they capitalized
on errors in Dal’s backfield play to
make the second try scored this

score, but it was not converted.

Play surged back and forth with
each team waiting for a break. The
Tigers pushed the Wanderers to two
safeties in the latter part of the
period, and then on a running play
the whole backfield, led by Forsythe,
pushed forward, letting Neilson into
the open for the third play. The
convert was missed, but the game
soon ended.

In open field punting Wanderers
made the best of several exchanges
behind the sure toe of Doug Spruin.
Rus Webber could not equal Spruin’s
distance, but played a much better
game than his opponent in kicking
for touch.

f ‘and Joudrey found it impossible to
prope against the college team. | place the ball between the uprights.
Vinnie Vaughn went across for the) at one point Vaughn kicked and hit

MARGAREE VICTIM WAS
BOXING INSTRUCTOR

‘Loss of Bob Arnott in the Margaree disaster will recall to many
of the senior students his work in
aiding Abe Becker to coach boxing |
teams at Dal in former years. He
was active in several sporting
fields and made good showings in
a number of lightweight bouts.
His aid to the Dal boxing teams in
the past was appreciated. A fine
personality and a real sportsman
passes with Bob’s unfortunate |
death.

 

 

 

the bar.

A big crowd saw the game. This
was swelled during the first half by
a large contingent of P.E.I. Highlanders who had been at the field to
witness their team win the intermediate game. The weather was cold,
with a slight breeze blowing from
the southwest.

 

High feeling ran throughout the
game. In the opening part of the
contest a general melee broke out
which was quickly quelled. Later
MacDonald and MacLellan were put |
off for fighting. Hard play was in|
evidence throughout with tackling |
being particularly vicious on both)
sides. Gooey Bauld went off in the

__ by which the ordinance was passed, to continue their regular program

a look into the matter, as there does not seem to be general satisfaction
r R. with the present arrangements.

Neither team had much luck in
making good penalty kicks. The
Tigers missed four from practically
the same position early in the game. | inson,
Later the Wanderers were equally! Vaughn,

erratic in kicking. Bauld, Vaughn| MacLellan, Meagher, Wall.

SPORT SHOTS

BY DON BLACK

last half with a slight back injury.

Wanderers: Spruin, Joudrey, DickBauld, Hutton, Eaton, West.
Lownds, Arthurs, Craig.

 

 

In answer to those who have at varicus times criticized our views
and their presentation, we present an excerpt from a column printed in
the Halifax Chronicle, Nov. 1, by W. J. (Ace) Foley. As Mr. Foley has
had considerably more experience in writing than we have and has also
apparently run up against the same complaints, we present his views
forthwith:

A fellow who can’t take criticism shouldn’t appear in public. And
this goes for sports writers as well as athletes and sports officials.
An athlete who appears before a crowd is inviting criticism if he fails
to play well.

An official — referee or umpire —is inviting criticism when he
steps on the field. If he is intelligent at all he knows his decisions
won’t please everybody. But he steps out there to do his best—hop
A sports writer does the same. He triesto explain the weak
spots in the hope they will be strengthened. But his main objective
is to write an interesting story—a story telling the facts, as he see
them, embellished with what is known in newspaper circles as “color”.

If somebody gets hurt in the telling of the story that is unfortunate. It is unfortunate because the athlete or official is not efficient
or, in other words, is out of his class.

Some people believe, because they were hurt in some way, that
the writer has been unduly unkind and that the stinging words were
inspired by an intense
abuse.

Knowing sports writers as I do, I do not for a moment believe
—, ae prey I ee ill will toward any athlete or

, at any time you fee have written i hi
about you, please tell me. : yee ee
of course we could be rude and tell our critics to go jump in the Arm,
but this, we believe, is a reasonable attitude. This applies to what we
write for the Gazette or any other paper. We can also give what we
consider a good and valid reason for nearly everything we have written.
(Intermediate football team please note). There is, however, the possi
bility of compositor’s errors, etc., but we do not hide behind them. Let’s
know your grievances!

dislike by the writer for the target of the

 

The football team redeemed itself nobly Saturday, but unfortunately
they found their fighting spirit just about two weeks too late. Wanderers,

however, got theirs and comparative scores ought to show which is the
better team.

 

A chance to play Acadia was a decided possibility at the first of this
week, but it has since gone the way of all suggestions that flavored of

intercollegiate sport.

We approve of the attitude towards this intercollegiate sport under
present conditions, but it is to be noted that the Western universities
have found those conditions were not what they thought they were when
they signed the agreement to abandon the sports. They have therefore
asked for and received permission from the national college organization

and are proceeding with their regular games.

ee was pointed out on this page some time ago that the movement
started with the Students’ Council of the University of Alberta. It might
be worth the time and energy of the council of a Maritime university to

——— SS

 

|
ing his best will be satisfactory. ~~

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   

" Re Bex eee
Joe Feindel, Bill Martell,

IGERS TRIM WANDERERS IN REVEN

 

    

Sig Neilson, Lew Sutherland, Norm MacRitch ie (Capt.), Bert Vail,

 

DALHOUSIE TIGERS OF 1940

Web

:
{

Friday, November 8, 1940

GE VICTORY, 13-3

mx Se

harlie Burke, Coach Ralsten.

John Jefferson, Bus Phillips, Lawrence Maclvor, Dewar MacLeod, Alec MacIntosh, “Yank” Forsythe, Russ Webber.

Highlanders Are
Successful As
Cubs Lose Game

The Cubs suffered a 10-3 defeat at |
the hands of the P. E. I. Highlanders |
Saturday when, although holding |
play well into their opponents field |
for the greater part of the game, |
the kilties broke through to make}
the winning scores. Bruce Murray |
neatly made a penalty shot early in|
the second half for the Cubs only |
score.

The Highlanders tallied their first
try in the first half when MacInnes
made a break-through run down the
center of the field and then made a
eross-field kick that put J. A. MacDonald over the line. Filliter made
a nice convert and his kicking
throughout the game helped the
Highlanders to hold off the Cub assault,

Second score for the visitors came
when the Cubs made a multitude of
errors to allow them over the line.
Zataman fumbled on a safety touch |
and Keefe fell on it to count for a|
try. Filliter again converted. The
Cubs came forward gamely again
but were unable to get far enough

ARTS AND SCIENCE
DEFAULT FIRST OF
INTERFAC GAMES
On Wednesday afternoon the
Engineers turned out a team of 18
men for intermediate football to |
oppose Arts and Science. But it
|

|

 

 

 

seems that the weather kept the

Arts and Science team (if they
have one) off the field, and they
did not even turn out one man.

 

The football season is definitely
over at Dalhousie. Efforts to get
between Dal and Acadia

for Remembrance

a game
0. T. C.’s
failed.

St. Mary’s have won the Intermediate League as a result of the
Cubs’ decision to default the game
that was scheduled for Saturday.
St. Mary’s was undefeated in her
three games.

Day

into their opponents grounds to score
effectively.

With only a minute or two to play
Referee Ken Harvey ordered Bil!
Hagen off the field. Hagen refused
to go after which the referee called
the game and proclaimed the Highlanders the winners.

     
   
   

 
 

Over 500

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ra
MAN
BAR

¢

Sey SR AO OS SR a oe ee, SO a Oe

 

 

 

 

British Woolens

FOOTBAL SEASON ENDED (OOOO eee

Employment ? Yes,

For the Maritime Graduates who have
further qualified by attending our

POST GRADUATE CLASSES

Last week we placed two such young men at $30
and $35 per week respectively, as initial salaries

In new positions.

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 College Street

E. KAULBACH, C. A., Principal

‘
Spo OOO OS ES aE SE ee ee SE OSS

 

RCOATS=

to give you satisfying service . . «
welcome warmth .. J
smart style...

Halifax, N. S.

eo a a RR a 8S SS ee ee

  
   

TIP TOP TAILORS’

IMPORTED BRITISH OVERCOATINGS

Now showing at your Tip Top store.

We suggest you order early

‘272

Hand-Cut and
Tailored to Your
Personal
Measurements

LADIES TAILORED-TO-MEASURE SUITS AND COATS — $28.75

TIP TOP
TAILORS fu

- 422 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

 

 
