     
    
    
 

Sarre ct tt or oe alate ; I =T ee Be
. 7 Cadet rm , Stooh “ty “ae, “ye! ri eeytat AeA ee
; ; i oS hes very

Mf me i
+ aoe!
rS

R GAZ

oF te y :
( 4s , « &
eens | :
ii a

L SEEKS EDITOR FO ETTE

 

 

 

 

 

_ huge task of training men for military service, but let us re_. Member that the university itself is of vital importance in
wartime. And let us at least try to keep the military authori_ ties, who certainly do not seem to recognize the importance of
____the university in wartime, in their place. This may not be
easy. but it is important. |

 

TWO TRIBUTES

I should like to pay tribute in this, my last issue of the
_ Dalhousie Gazette, to the present staff of the paper. All of
them have given me complete co-operation and attended enthusiastically to their duties. To have the sports, features
and literary sections looked after almost entirely by their respective editors has been a huge advantage, one that few
editors-in-chief are fortunate enough to, receive.

Also, hardly enough can be said in gratitude for the cireumstance by which freedom of expression is enjoyed, subject

 
 
 
  
 

ni HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 10, 1941 Atay) _ Ne. 10
Dalhousie M Prof Nickerson'’s Death
Secs Reiter tebe  L $$
ely : © ‘ =
ee In Commemoration ... 'No Applications
te THE EDITOR RESIGNS |
ot yh? For Post To Date
__ To lay down the editorship of The Gazette half way vee idl, “at blk’ edie Cauabhe
ae through the college year is a serious step—some may call it eg eet alle aac acre aay
_ desertion. Therefore | have taken some space hereunder to concerti fact | fiat ac‘ iehWers
| state fully the reasons for my resignation. ive da yet beck vedived Gee
ee Briefly, I am convinced that it is not possible to handle Students’ Council request for appli_ three jobs—an honours course, military training and the cations for the position of editor
__ editorship—without failing down on one of them. I have en- with its fifty dollar stipend posted
_ deavoured to obtain exemption, amounting merely to postpone- early last month.. However, readers —
P's ment, from military training, but it has not been granted. are assured that by next deadline
From the two alternatives remaining: to drop subjects from date some arrangement to ensure
_ my university course or to relinquish the Gazette position, I publication will have been arived at.
‘ have chosen the latter. Che president of the council, the ne
eS There are two things | wish to make plain. The first is abr agian soi denen ieee
that when I was elected as Gazette editor for this year by last LiL BAe gpa 5 ae a ak i ister
_-_—‘year’s retiring Students’ Council there was no indication that ae eecieein Wek’ sales! ua te ieee
there would be compulsory military training at college when | hig iD . bi all easicetedie aia
’ we returned in the fall. At the time of applying for the posi- x re a pant alae
tion I was under no delusions as to the amount of work in- Hi aae' Fra ae eee
volved. I was aware also that the honours course I had under- ee a est ee eee
i i , editorship-in-chief will appear next
taken was a heavy assignment and that the two jobs togethe Se WLS pain ieee el
; ; : , for Don Black, Sports Editor
would fill my time this year to the utmost. and Chuck Graham, CUP and ExWhen the training plan was announced it was quite clear Hadue: ‘idicee hides sieeha “neue
that a choice would have to be made. However, the first of resignation to the present editorGazette was due to come out and military training had not yet in-chief. The twin duties of studies
begun, so I took up my duties, and for two main reasons: the and C.0.T.C. have made exacting
first was that I felt under a responsibility to fulfil my appoint- : _Continued on page three 8
ment as long as there was some chance of getting around the
difficulties involved; the second was that I needed the salary TWO UNTIMELY
_, to finance my year at college. My subsequent application for Das } ae
__ temporary exemption from training was on the grounds that DEATHS AMONG
ie I had a heavy course and a financially-needed job and that in STUDENT BODY
? _ any case I was well over the age of men called up by the gov- |
sh ernment. ROY MACLEOD
The other point on which I wish readers to be clear con- Dalhousie students were shocked
cerns the attempt made last month by one member of the’ to hear of the sudden passing of
, Students’ Council to get a motion through which would force Roy MacLeod, age 25, who suc_ me to take training or resign the editorship. That motion, cumbed after a two-day illness
which was turned down by the Council as inopportune, has from a throat infection. Roy was
nothing to do with my present step. It was by the decision studying in his final year for a
of the Dalhousie Senate that my application for exemption Science degree, and although bern
from military training was rejected, and it was following that in Moncton, spent most of his life
' decision that I determined to resign rather than drop subjects in Halifax.
from the course and ruin my university year. My financial CARLETON NICKERSON He was able to complete only
problem can be solved by borrowing. To etudenia (whe) had ‘seen. and! spoken. to Ticks Ne 2 i Christmas pore
; . w rm, the a e class in one o mi.
: ‘apy ay Me roy paper ne iB de de ea hag ware owt of his, death ‘diet, the palitays ‘was : The students of Dalhousie have lost a friend.| A sore throat forced him to bed,
question of military training as approached by: both the Stu-| severe blow. It was sad news to all members of | ea a eae y thal! ivdlts tail aleath follaarcd ‘aml dinceabioan
dents’ Council and the university authorities. It is my impres-| the student body, faculty and staff, indeed to all | Most of us first knew ona ae ‘ aes y 1 Bicliwe tha aeucusns tee
sion that the Council are wholeheartedly in favor of some sort| his acquaintances, for he was beloved of us all. | professor of freshman chemistry, Bae to those i ig ee aa ie Smninasiom. Cae
of a training plan. There are, however, more than one of that Professors Bennet and Bronson, as two of his col- | who worked near him, the loss has been a hard blow.| table had elapsed. vhs
body who personally believe that the present indiscriminate Sree eee contributed remembrances below. |He was more than a teacher; he was almost a father A permanent leg injury pre-.
: : ; ets : Spy eee Teme Le student, has written a short yh ll troubles, great and small, could be wisely| vented Roy from participating in
and inflexible plan at Dalhousie is needlessly inapt. Nonethe- appreciation of Carleton Nickerson, the teacher. vo whom & " ; ey E a ey a Nae t +t tt tivi
less, as a council, impeccable as Dalhousie councils usually pean entrusted, His efforts to ease our anxieties were| sports or Se tt ae) ee ae
strive to be, if confronted with the choice of “J. Windebank: untiring, and not a few have some very tangible tits. He was quiet about the
editor or trainee”, their answer, as indicated by their discus- C hemist reasons for remembering a rare benefactor. We have campus, devoted to his work, and
sion of the motion mentioned above, would doubtless be eh many a time shared his endless fund of humor; his his host of friends in the Chem“trainee”, A lickspittle attitude to what they conceive to be When Carleton Nickerson came to Dalhousie in 1909 | good-fellowship will be always an inspiration to us.| istry _building, where his high
public Opinion is a determining factor in all their deliberations. | 25 ™8tTuctor in chemistry, the Faculty of Arts and|His strength was, indeed, his humanity. In the many| capacity for friendship was most
Science was a small family of fourteen or fifteen mem- | duties that were his, the interests of Dalhousie students} felt.
The attitude of the university authorities seems to be|bers and all the faculties were housed in the Forrest were always in the fore of his thought. In this lay Roy had been in charge of the
indicated by the fact that when a choice between stopping | Building. Thus he belonged to the old as well as to|his devotion to our college. The best memorial to the| Chemistry stock room, and did
lectures at the medical school and stopping military training the new Dalhousie and he had the satisfaction of play-| Dean is an affectionate and grateful remembrance of} much to finance his path thronghi:
» fora short time seemed necessary they chose to cut out lec- ing his part in all the changes that have taken place |one who did much for us. wie We. 8: college. A very cheerful disposi-.
tures for a period. during the past thirty years. * 2 ¢ tion, a sort of light-hearted sense
P Should anyone wish to know my own attitude it is this:| He had had a thorough training in chemistry at Dalh . of humor distinguished him.
Pe ; Let. us co-operate enthusiastically with the government in its Clark University and at Massachussetts Institute of a Ousian Roy’s friends feel the loss
|

 
    

Technology, especially in the analytical field. At Dalhousie, he had the good fortune to have for ten years
as his chief, Professor Eben Mackay; a prince among
teachers. Although he was very much a junior on the
staff and not a native, he seems at once to have made
a place for himself in the small Dalhousie family,
where his
students.

major interest was in teaching and in
But change was in the air; the new campus at
Studley was shortly purchased and the young instructor had the privilege and the pleasure of helping
plan the new chemistry building at Studley which he
was later to direct as head of the Chemistry De
partment.

Professor Nickerson gave unstintedly of his time
and energies to the work of his department. and to
individual students. As a colleague he was always
helpful, considerate, and never too busy to give freely
of his time when one needed assistance. He took an
active part in all university matters, especially standards. He seryed on many committees, was secretary

 

One of the best-known and best-liked personalities
has suddenly been removed from the Dalhousie scene,
of which he seemed to be so permanent a part. Though
still comparatively young, and apparently with many
good years before him, Dean Nickerson had a long
period of service at Dalhousie, and had grown up in

the tradition. As a neweomer eighteen years ago, |

 

 

keenly and our heartfelt sympathies are extended to Mr. and
Mrs. MacLeod, 129 Agricola St.,
Halifax.

DOUGLAS DeLONG
This is the first opportunity that

found him already well-established, and respected for | the Gazette has had to SRPPSSS,
a rare combination of qualities which he kept to the | behalf of the student body, its sor
end—the judgment and experience of an elder with the

fresh outlook of a younger man. He was a helpful

 

row to the parents and family of
Douglas DeLong who met a tragic

and congenial senior colleague from the beginning of |@eath in an automobile accident on
our acquaintance, and we became good friends as the | Dec. 9th.

years went by. He was never too busy to discuss a

Doug. was 29 years of age and

problem and add a genial comment or a_ timely | native of Woodstock, New Bruns
anecdote. He was notably’ popular with students, and | Wick.

with them his reputation rests chiefly. on his gift for
teaching; but he was valued equally, by those in a
position to know, for his wise, loyal and unobtrusive

 

He received his Bachelor of
Science degree from Acadia in 1987
and proceeded to Dalhousie for two

years of medicine. This year he

service in administration. His knowledge and counsel | switched to Dentistry which was to

were constantly in demand on committees, and he | have been his life profession.

He

served in a variety of official posts including those of W@S respected and admired by his

+0 a e discretion, by Dalhousie editors. In an institu- of the soo for some atte a for the ee Secretary of the Senate and Dean of his faculty. He | fellow students as being of a kind
; tion of ling above all this is important, and it does not years he has been Dean of the Arts and, Science had a gift—possibly inherited from his New England | disposition and a diligent worker.

      

Faculty.

For many years Professor Nickerson was an active
member of the Nova Scotian Institute of Science,
holding various offices including the presidency during
1922-24, He was also a Fellow of the Canadian Institute of Chemistry. H. L. BRONSON

r*
a
i

Last summer he was employed by
the New Brunswick Government as
X-ray technician on a mobile tuberculosis unit. He was a cadet in the
C.0.T.C.—People all over the Maritimes mourn his loss.

‘forebears — for tolerance, good-humour and practical
;common-sense which added smoothness and ease alike
| to routine business and to discussions of policy. His
commanding presence and resonant’ voice reflected a
Personality of which the memory will long remain.

Cc. L. BENNET

ne exist in all colleges. The attitude of non-interference adhered
| to by Dalhousie’s President with reference to the Gazette
ugh the three years of the present writer’s acquaintance
Da ho l e | s extr hi f : .

ts ra. aad por vaste,

7 ad

    
    

 
   
 

  
 

*
if

    

.

 

tg
uP i
+

    

t

ae). ‘Isp .
S|. us ee ‘i
LS Mis ok ulna f — > j :

 
 
  

tr.

4 any huae of THE GAZETTE are those of the author; it cannot
y Fep t the opinion of the Student Body.

Printing Co., Limited, s# Aseyle srOen) Halifax, N, S.

GAZETTE STAFF

B 4538 |
B 9586
B 4421
B-2717
B 9746
B 3148
B-2275
B-1516
B 9745

B 1049
B 1917

 
  
  
 
    
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
 
  
 
  
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
  
   
    
    
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
     
  

Fe r JACQUI 1 CAHAN
. Ys ee. JEAN PHINNEY ee ange: ROSS GRAHAM
ditor: ROWENA BENSON
MARGARET GRAHAM, “PENNY PATCHELL
3 Manager: INEZ SMITH
_ Business Manager:: MARY J OHN SON

REPORTERS

‘Bill Ferguson, Howard Gordon, Mar, MacKeigan
Robert Blois, Jean Weinstein.

a Or SE eee
Deg hp ad

' ' f¥ $e a ee
a dst 0 gt ri hy

' ‘ i ‘ ; et 1

a= Roy Sgr Lag. eye ghee
44/8 of, eye tee ine
rope Ce ee pee
i ' ' ' ‘ i ' ! ‘

_ THE PRESS AND THE SIROIS REPORT

ve *The long and ition drone of an opinion- —
manufacturing press”

,

at Since democracy, to be successful, must have a backround of informed public opinion, it is exceedingly harmful

  

ee prune way of life to have sources of information which are
a not: careful to give a true evaluation of public questions. In

a yresenting the nature of the Sirois Report, a set of careBark? ful recommendations based on a long study of Canadian prob
ys i i lems by experts, one particularly blatant section of the locai
press is doing a serious disservice to the community. To urge
caution in the acceptance of the Report is one thing, but to
| epic it as a trap, baited by propaganda and placed carefu!ly
ae eatch the Maritime Provinces on their way to the Confer
mh

af 8

S eapenting to sensations and prejudices rather than to reason,
; _ creating suspicion and mistrust rather than a healthy attitude
_ of inquiry.

, - The editor of the Halifax Herald and Mail has given no
- evidence of having investigated the report for himself, rather
has discouraged investigation by playing up the enormous
ov e and the expense attached to its purchase. Actually
the full discussion of recommendations is included in one 290
page volume and the full report is contained in three volumes,
_ purchasable from the King’s Printer for one dollar. The eight
- page abstract at the conclusion of Volume 2 would be sufficient
_to disabuse the editor of some of the false impressions unde?
which he seems to be laboring.

An important misrepresentation that should be corrected
is that the Commissioners have devised a scheme which will
_ sacrifice provincial autonomy. Repeatedly in the report therc
iY on emphasis upon the conviction that provincial autonomy in

_ the fields of public welfare, education, provincial developmen' tal and conservation expenditures must be strengthened.

_ ~~ The whole financial scheme is aimed at restoring to a sub
ong ential degree the financial independence of the provinces,
_ fundamental necessity to the whole federal system. So fay
he from “Reconfederating” Canada, the recommendations of the
Sirois Report are designed to remedy the abuses in the federal
_ system that have resulted from the “growth in governmental
as ibility and the great regional shifts in taxable income’’
which have occurred in the seventy years since Confederation
an nd to bring about a return to the basic principles of the Conderation settlement.

tex
a _ There is neither intention nor need for this humble or gan
N * ‘become a booster for the Sirois Report; our purpose is
merely to urge students not to dismiss as part of an insidious
_ plot recommendations which appear to hold great advantages
_ for the Maritimes. The problem of distressed areas is one of
particular consequence to us here. We have long complained
i a ~ of the financial difficulty of keeping our standard of education
te ot social services to a high level. The Commission’s scheme
coo ep ani Adjustment Grants, completely ignored by the
loeai press to date, is directed toward providing the financial
eans for “at least minimum standards for education, public
" health and care of the indigent”. Residents of depressed areas
of which there are considerable in the Maritime Provinces,

£
2

 

 

  

  

 

| ar them in the
a A “clamor of a ven

a Be

mae
Rea

mmendations of the Commission by the
press” which is trying to make political
ee out of a passionate opposition to the scheme.

_Most serious of all is the representation of public opinion
“just about unanimous” in condemnation of the Report. We
suggest that the editor in question has as little idea of what
. public opinion really is as anyone else. When he avers that
‘the people of this country” think such and such, what he
bly means is that his rotary club or other organization
persons with interests similar to his own thinks such and

  
  
    
     
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
    

ebkte Sey

“4 h “ “the forthcoming conference of provinces will have every
sl. ODP portunity of getting at a proper evaluation of the Sirois
bil, ee eport. Whatever of its provisions can be emplemented with_ out creating serious resentment on the part of individual
i provinces: will doubtless be put into effect by the Federal Govx Bi _ ernment in the interests of Canadian strength and unity.

- Bea: The conference will be held behind closed doors not be| cause there is anything furtive about the intentions of those
Bs _ who have called it or because there is, as the press has suggested, any disposition to regard the report as “sancrosanct”,

ecause ian inter-provincial conferences always have
held in camera, and for very good reasons.

ni
d ‘If Canada is likely to be split apart by such a meeting, to
Pies disadvantage of the war effort, Canada must be in a bad
stat > indeed. If, on the other hand, the war is uniting Canada
nd o ging sectional differences, the increased efficiency
administration possible as a result of the conference | 22
aluah e andeed: The thing most destructive of Canod is peed ph to sabotage such a plan as the study
al ( Ss s has resulted in by creating of a
i soon before the ee has been properly dis
 
      

ence at Ottawa, is a different thing. This is the strategy of}

Lt

 

_ should not be steered away from advantages contained for,

   

“Out Pabibcratic inatitations

by A. R. M. LOWER

~Ed, Note: As a guest editorial, Professor Lower has submitted a talk given Nov. 24th
in a series over CJRC, Winnepeg. The writer taught Political Science at Dalhousie in the
absence of Professor McKay two years ago. It has been necessary to shorten the article due
to lack of space.

This country is at war. Why?

Upon a true and sincere answer to that question depends victory or
defeat. If it were to turn out that Canada had been led into this war
for objects other than those avowed the Canadian people would not take
long in finding that out. Then they would become apathetic and slacken
their efforts. Then defeat would be just around the corner.

The avowed object of our war is the preservation of our western
way of life. You can call this what you like—parliamentary government,
freedom, liberalism, democracy, or even Christianity. I don’t think the
terms matter, since most of us have some kind of reality in our minds
that corresponds to them.

Now if while we are making our sacrifices for our way of life, certain tendencies develop among us which undermine it, so that even victory does not restore it to us, we have not achieved the object of our
fighting, we may have won a victory in the field but we would have lost
something even more precious than military victory—the informing purpose of our war effort, our Canadian way of life, or, as most people

now term it, democracy.

I put this sharply—because I would like to bring the attention into
clear focus on the nature of this way of life which we call Canadian, or
democratic. I would like to have the reader analyze it, see what it is
like, what it really amounts to, why it is that we feel it is so vital to
fight for it.

In the first place, everyone knows how it expresses itself in institutions. We have municipal councils and school boards that we choose
ourselves; a provincial legislature, elected by the people; a provincial
cabine¥ responsive to the wishes and interests of the people, and a
Parliament of Canada elected after a campaign of free discussion of all
issues.

As the executive committee of our Parliament, we have the Government of Canada which does our national business for us but which,
because of its necessity of always having a majority on the floor of the
House of Commons, must pay attention to what private members think,
even members of its own party, must justify its acts in the face of vigilant opposition, and in all its major decisions must carry the opinion of
the country as a whole with it.

All these bodies exist only because we, the Canadian people, wish
them to exist. We bring them into existence and we can dismiss them.
We exercise that right at an election. Every election is a class in citizenship, one of the chief means by which the citizen is trained in the different duties of self-government. The suggestion that one sometimes hears
that we should have no elections during war-time because they tend to
divide us seems a poor suggestion. We need elections and the discussion
that goes with elections. If we can’t risk being divided over the day-today matters of life, we can’t win a victory, that’s clear. Health, not
sickness, comes out of elections. Witness the way in which the election
of Mr. Roosevelt cleared the air in the United States.

Even more important than these institutions is our system of justice, “the rule of law”. Our great heritage of English institutions—
representative government, responsible government, trial by due process
of law—these constitute the main bearings, as it were, of our domestic
engine. But they are not automatie machinery, they will not work by
themselves. The engine hag to have fuel to make it go.

What is this fuel? It is the spirit behind our institutions, the sou!
in our body, so to speak, and here as elsewhere, the spirit is more vital
than the form: “the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life”.

It is hard to define in a word this spirit of our institutions. If one
word is to be used, it must be freedom. Freedom is the life blood of our
institutions.

Everyone in Canada will cheerfully subscribe to liberty, equality and
Christianity as the basis of our democratic institutions, but how many
will do more than pay lip-service to these great words? They wil! tend
to be accepted in the abstract and ‘ejected in the concrete. Many
people will say in one breath, “Yes, I’m all for British freedom” and “I
don’t like what that man says—he is dangerous, he ought to be interned”’.

Humanity, that is, is fragile, and therefore the foundations of our
democratic scciety are fragile. Christianity has been preached for many
centuries now, but even so, there are probably not a great many genuine
Christians in the world. So with our democratic society: we proclaim our
devotion to it, many of us, and then proceed to betray it by our actions.

Take, for example, tolerance. The other day a young man was talking about a person whosé views he did not like. People wou!d have to be
| prevented from thinking like that, he added. I was shocked. Every ccn viction I have, all the generous scholarship in which I have been train-d,
with its inculeation of the ideal of following the truth wherever it mzay
lead, cries out against storming this last and sacred stronghold of man,
his thoughts. I had hoped that went out with the Inquisition. Let the
Nazis, the Fascists, if they must, tell their people how t*ey ave to think;
let the Japanese indulge in prosecution of “dangerous thoughts”. I hope
we Canadians will continue to do our own thinking.

Tolerance, the right of every man under reasonable ssfeguards to
express his honest opinion in speech or writing, alone or with others, is
the cornerstoné of our institutions. It implies discussion, and discussion
presupposes criticism. Many people shy away from the word, because
they equate it with fault-finding. Criticism may be said to be the cxpression of*a reasoned judgment. To give an example, if one merely
carps at the present government for not having done as much as it migt
without himself giving a constructive suggestion, that might be called
fault-finding. If, on the other hand, he commends this government for
having preserved the unity of the country under difficult circumstances,
but deplores what he regards as the vague phrasing and unnecessary
severity of the Defence of Canada Regulations, that appraisal could be
called reasonable criticism.

Criticism, vigorous, fighting criticism, opposition, ig what we must
have at every point if we are to make our democratic institutions work.
“His Majesty’s loyal opposition” is more than a phrase. Every citizen
must in some sense constitute himself an opposition ready to keep the
authorities up to the mark and in their place. If we don’t do that, the
night of dictatorship lies just around the corner.

The English novelist, W. W. Jacobs, has a little story that illustrates
the point. There was once a public-house keeper who liked an argument.
But he did not like a losing argument. Consequently if one of his customers were getting the better of him, he would point at him and shout,
“You, you've had too much to drink, get out.” Throwing a man out if
you can’t answer him—imprisoning him, if you like, because you allege he
is a danger to the safety of the state—is not the principle on which we
maintain our free institutions.

To put what I am trying to say ina sentence, let me conclude by
using the phrase of the late Arthur Balfour, describing the British Commonwealth, “Free institutions are its life blood’. Free institutions are
the life-blood of our state, and free discussion, yes, even in wartime, is
the life-blood of our free institutions.

Le TAT

Be

 

 

a. i

January 10, 1941

   
 
    
   

 

| sure gave the boss a piece of my mind.”
“You'd get further if you gave him Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

The National Fish Company, Limited |

 

|
| BLAKELEYS
After any Show

| Oo
o |
Before any Meal WELCOME
| TO
Think of | DALHOUSIE
The 
Green Lantern

| 43 Spring Garden Read

Farmers Milks iS
RICH, PURE AND WHOLESOME.

YOU’LL LIKE IT.

Fa a’

FARMERS’ LIMITED
NOVA SCOTIA

HALIFAX

    
     
 
 
 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

  
     
 
       
       
     
      
 
   
   
     
  

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc.,B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

| Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
. Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Sc.

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

  

 

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year;
in thé B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

  
     
        

Se i
  

 

r

i

 

menses
niente andorra <aewanesaeanaeneees.

| Dalhousie s

 

H. NORMAN MacRITCHIE, B.A.

Introducing H. Norman MacRitchie, better known in the ‘Land
of Rangoon as “Blimp”. “Norm”
needs no introduction to his fellow
students for he is soon pointed out
by ardent sports fans to any new
student who has not seen him in
‘action on the football field or the
gym floor, at the beginning of each
term.

“Norm” was born Feb. 14th, 1918
in Ottawa, and two years later
established residence in Sydney, C.B.
A move for the better, for who that
knows this veritable young giant,
6 2%” tall and 225 lbs, of bone and
muscle, ean deny the vitamin value
of Cape Breton porridge and sunshine?

He graduated from Sydney Academy, ® good student, and three

} ‘letter man in Sports — Football,
__. Basketball and Track and Feld.

He attended Mt. Allison for one
year where he was elected presi- dent of the Freshman Class and so

i distinguished himself in sports that

ie 'in one track meet he broke three
o eitarcofleciate records in the Field

Events, “discus” “javelin” and
“shot put”. This was a record in
itself, as Norm is the only college
man to date, to acomplish the feat.
In addition he played basketball and
boxed in the heavyweight division
on the boxing team.

The following year he entered
Kings and lived in Residence for

three years. He was a member of
the Students’ Council, SecretaryTreasurer of Dramatic Society,

King’s College Record staff, Choral

Society, basketball team, football
team and track and field. He received his letter in sports. While

representing Kings he increased his |

“shot put record” to 42’, 9%”.

Scholastically, he won the Deblois
English prize and was appointed
“Bissett Medalist” as the best all
around athlete and scholar of Kings
College.

While attending Kings he boxed
for Dalhousie and took the Maritime
Intercollegiate Heavyweight _ title
with little apparent difficulty.

Norm entered Dalhousie Law
School in the Class of ’41 and graduates this year with his LL.B. degree.

In Law School he has taken an
active part in extra curricular University affairs and again came to
the fore in sports earning his Gold
“PD” in football, basketball, track
and field and boxing. He was captain of the ’40-’41 football team.

He still retains the maritime
junior record for the 12 lb shot,
47,8”. Norm leaves this year to
practice Law. He will leave a gap
‘which will be hard to fill—yet—our
loss is Society’s gain.

Meet Dr. Cooper

Students are becoming acquainted
with Dr. D. LeB. ‘Cooper who is
carrying on the work in the Chemistry Department until further
definite arrangement has been made
by the Dalhousie Board of Governors—who are faced with the problem of filling the vacancy left by
the untimely death of Professor
Nickerson — who was known and
loved by all of us,

Dr. Cooper received his M.Sc.
from Dalhousie in 1928 and _ his
Ph.D. from McGill University. He
has been employed on the Fisheries
pee Station Staff in Hali
 

fax and students are looking for-.

 

ward to many happy days in their
new oo — Congratula
 

‘ ee i rs 1 , hee Lf - i ~ ic oe { ee ~ or) - 7 a he us
si es oy , Af 3 i A , hy Ce eA y a Tee ue, 4 ty _ i:
ig? are ah +* iT ' s é aes Pane rh : s 7 cers r
yen *. owe” &, - sg ah

7. _ fiat be: , 4 ar. ae rT 1;
Te Hg ts Ay OF me cn CARN SF aR TD FIR ne a Mae ee mee
a “fn afeero bey / yi ‘ j ‘
ie Me i. *

ad a as Ys os

ceva yen ere
ey ‘ oN a ae i Ma . if : ‘URE i. Laon sa!

es | 4 Beas _DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

~ NONSENSE ’N STUFFER#

"oO M Who was the cute little boy wan. ne oment dering around the Chemistry Lab.

looking for Penny? He had us
« Please 2 ae for a while with his lost

i +
ts ig “4 ae

   

at last taking an interest in life.
Nothing like a New Year’s revolution.

 

 

 

 

Chapter 10 | «

The Snatchihg of King Karl, or
Sea-Stenches I Have Sniffed At.
Wilbur P. Fizzleque, barely re-| [HE GLEE CLUB will present its
covered from his Xmas binge, was|bis play of the season in early
ruminating on the New Year, ex: | Febru: ary: It will be “The Spring

pectorating jagged bits of gin | Dance” — in three acts—by Philip
bottles whose digestibility he had |

 

SAY. 99

During the storms of the past few
weeks a few germs have drifted into
the stethoscope but as it is too early

 

to forget our New Year’s Resolu- finally begun to doubt, and literally ; ake hig cel 7 : rr poe ak
tions we must treat them with|tvitching with mental effort, trying rae
ethical silence. to muster his pitiful stock of mental cose We

It would, though, be thteresting powers for a great decision. Should| C. 0. T. C. ACTIVITIES recom
 

to know where some of the boys

: he flit carelessly through 1941 as|mence ‘next week. Members of both
spent their holidays.

he had 1940, butterfly that he was, units are asked to read changes in

Shirley, it seems, likes the South|hopping from blossom to blossom, | time-table.

Shore bouncing from lemon to lemon, or | nie elie te
While ude prefers Pugwash to|Should he, borrow a book from the | IMPORTANT

Springhill, library and spend his life as a | Seniors— get your photographs
Reardon went to Truro and was dis-|Scholar, burrowing through its| taken this month if you wish them

mayed |musty pages night after night in|to appear in the Year Book. DeadTo find Murray on his way to Anti-|search of dirty jokes? No scholarj line January 31st.

gonish, at heart, butterfly Fizzleque never- W. Kapak, photographic editor,
We wonder why Ballem came back |theless rubbed his kisser thought-| desires snapshots of campus interest

to Halifax fully in tender remembrance of the| by the same date. Web. Macdonald

To join our friend Reid near Citadel] | Scorching he got when one of the/is editor-in-chief.

Hill. \bright blossoms he lit on turned out oh $50
Cantwell joined MacDougall at|to be Kissy Cameron, and hastily Lenipetin te attention is also directSedney idecided to grace the New Year as ed to the notise posted recently by
While Nonamaker thought of R.V.H.|2 Pedant. Accordingly he bicycled |*M® | Tesistrar re engrossing of
parchments.

carelessly up the stairs to Miss
Many others, we are told, made|Commonbelle’s pulp dispensary and
visits, near and far, but owing to | smiled affably at the proprietor.
the censorship it would be wise to|“What’ll it be, buddy?” challenged
say only that Jack Marshall spent the dainty librarian from a safe dishis holidays somewhere in Nova tance behind the desk. “A book,
Secotia—Heaven knows where. baby” gurgled our hero, fencing.
We only heard of one vicious leap | cautiously for an opening, “a choice |
during the holidays—Ryan to Nita.! gem of literary excellence, a bibfull
Congratulations—We hope that you of pon mots, gee baby you got nice
won't be late for the wedding. “eyes”.
Here we leave you readers for ee pete ene fee ae Le th
this week, but remember, don’t do| While Fizzleque was struggling | idee Cabaret styte a 50 vi

things you’d be ashamed to see in | a eu
gainst the urgings of his better, | as
print because we are firmly resolved self. Rufus Bivlcr and DB: Birdies | ‘couple. Eats at 12 o’clock. Organ

io ‘Otint akything we. lnow--if it’s music during intermission—
printable! ything Black’ were ea wt SES of | The Chaperons will be: Prof. and

sais te cdl 3 heen 4 eir imagina- | yr Copp, Prof. and Mrs. Theaktions fired by the subtle coaxings |

‘ston, Major and Mrs. Hogan, Prof.

Women’ 8 Activities o Rubbermug Smythe, who had | and Mrs. Murray Macneill.

n ordered to get a story at all |

With resumption of the usual Pe they had scent for Sammy) unlucky mounties who were hiding
activities, Dal girl§ are rapidly, |\Skunk and his newly acquired bed- behind the bulk of their friend Hoswinging back into routine after the | \fellow Major Hokum, and Seperate kins until their inordinate weight |
holidays. ls plan for the snatching of rae ge had eapsized the flimsy vessel. All|
Badminton Begins \Karl. “If we can’t get a donation) was confusion in the next instant:
The forming of a badminton class |from the board of governor’s Wak ‘the coppers wasted no time in crawlfor ist year students is getting | his return,” they explained, “we'll ing aboard the stalwart Major, who |
under way and should prove an ac-| pet a contribution from the eater was already floating toward McNabs |

+ . .

BIGGEST DANCE OF THE
SEASON SET FOR JAN. 16

Don’t let anything prevent you
‘from attending THE BIG DANCE
|of the season next Thursday at the
Nova Scotian Hotel — The Boilermakers’ Ball sponsored by the En| gineering Society will be surely one
| of your big events in the year 1941.

  
      

Pi

 

 

CAPITOL

THEATRE - HALIFAX

 

Friday - Saturday - Monday
NORMA SHEARER

 

 

ceptable addition to other sports. | for writing him off.” \Island, while Sammy gallantly scis- gg
All basketball players kindly note Sam Skunk Smells a Rodent | sored open the burlap, cua the ROBERT TAYLOR
that practice is called for Friday,| [ater that night a solemn little | stupidity of Birdlegs and Rubber- ie ade fJan. 10th, 5.30 p.m. A full attend- | ¢roup, consisting of Rufus, Samuel|mug who had mistaken King Karl’s |
ance is requested and expected. Skunk, Hokum and Fizzleque (who,|dawg for their intended victim in “ESCAPE”
Folk- Dancing | book in hand, had been retained by | the darkness, and guided the noble |
Classes in Folk-dancing for 44 | the conspirators as chief consulting | beast shoreward with his keen sey | ry

students got away to a Paes

| specialist — the book was an un-| stink.
start Wednesday afternoon, Jan. 8, expurgated Thousand - and - One-| As for Fizzleque and Rufus, | Tuesday - Wednes - Thurs.
oer comments ‘Wwere| Nights) sauntered carelessly along | whose density was far too dense for | FRED ASTAIRE

the waterfront, followed by thirteen|swimming, or even floating purSaturday from 11 to 12 is open’ R©.M.P. officials engaged for the | poses, the sequel is less happy. Soon
for any upperclasswomen who would | avening by the Major, who was | the sole vestige of their once inlike a gym class. mistrustful of his fellow conspira-|spiring presences were small bubbles
Thursday night is D.G.A.C. night|tor." and at a low whistle from | which exploded at the surface of the
in the gym. On these nights there) some nearby rose bushes (loaned | water with a sharp ping, and the)
willbe basketball practise from 7.30 | py courtesy of horticulturalist Bin-| schools of dying fishes which floated
to about 9.00 and then it will be free inet) emerged bearing a huge, strug- | | upward from their vicinity.
for badminton for the rest of the | sling burlap bundle which they | Gamo, the first rays of Lucifer, |{
Shoots | planted in a rowboat and pushed ‘off harbinger of the dawn, to find the |
War Work Extended to Include {with the changing tide. Fizzleque|sea still and untroubled. A gull|
ei First Aid ; and Rayne, busied themselves with | flapped lazily over the water, the |
At Shirreff Hall, Wednesday night the oars while Sammy administered | raucous laughter of -the arch- fiend |
Dr. Roberta Nicols presented the , soothing odors to the figure in the| Hokum cackled faintly in the dis
first in a series of First ‘Aid lec- sack k and thus did not notice the | 13° tance, and all was still.
tures. It is understood that the St. evens eee ye Sie

John’s Ambulance Course will be}
followed. The keen interest of those |
attending was gratifying and it is |
expected that at the next eee
there will be further enrollments. |
At this time the acquiring of knowl.
edge in first-aid work should be
considered a patriotic duty, and with
Dr. Nicols in charge the opportunity |
to attendthese classes is one to be |

ee | The Little Pig is happy to take

; M een oportunity to wish all his conNo Applications— stant readers the condolences of the

PAULETTE GODDARD
Artie Shaw’s Orchestra

in

“Second Chorus”

 

 

 

 

 

CASINO

SIX DAYS
! Commencing Saturday

THE
| MARX BROTHERS

“Go West”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
   

‘Pig Sty

 

 

 

_ Continued from “page one season.
demands upon their time and they # Ee AF
have apparently chosen the change; The Christmas holidays wey.

in editorship as an appropriate time
for easing out of their positions.
Don Black, however, has indicated
his willingness to take up the light-|and then Barb. Who says -there
er job of CUP and Exchange. ~ aint any.
Sports reporter Bob Blois has been * &£ &

mentioned as a posible successor to
Black. Jean Phinney appears on

made doubly enjoyable for our o!:
friend “Fido” Doyle in the Moncto~
metropolis. First came Santy Claus.

From the same metropolis comes
the report that our “willing worker”
the masthead this week for the first Daph. returned a few days early for
“ime as Women’s Editor, a post|a date with the “Wavy Navy.”
vhich she was prevented from ac- * *
cepting earlier by illness at home.| Favorite winter sport of the

Persons with newspaper or col-|times. “Lightning” meets all the

lege journal experience are urged |trains, and he “Brooks” no delay.
to get in touch with George Corston a

or John Windebank if they are in-| These Dartmouth women certain];
terested in staff yortrons. on the|seem to have what it takes. After
Gazette. years of retirement Reggie Ball is

 

   
    
 
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
 
        
     
       
       
       
     
  
   
     

OXFORD

 

    
 

   

  

  
 

Page Three

Lazongas Ritchie and Rose are reported to have been unsuccessful in
Sdyney. Ah well, the stag and Eve
is always a pleasing sight, even
New Years.

ef igs ae

Defying nature, in the form of

some anti-social snowdrifts, Marshall finally arrived at the Millionaires’
tardy.

Brawl alkeit two hours

: Pa ; : ~ NY
is N So : i c
/

“

ne

gamemnon, sitting in his wooden hoss’,

Smoked Picobac to make the Trojans come across.

® Who would not—and does not—“go” for the rich,
ripe aroma of Picobac? And its nutty flavour is
equally enticing. It is the pick of Canada’s Burley crop
—always a mild, cool, sweet smoke. Students may feel
that the charms of the Iliad are professorially overrated; but not the charms of Picobac!

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH «. 15¢
%-LB. “LOK-TOP" TIN - 65¢
also packed in Pocket Tins

cobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

 

  
     
   
  

Monday and Tuesday

‘SHOP AROUND the CORNER’
Margaret Sullivan - Jas. Stewart

  
   
     
   
    
       
             
          

Frankie Darro in
“CHASING TROUBLE”

Wednesday and Thursday
“TURNABOUT”
and “GIRLS OF THE ROAD”

ORPHEUS

Monday and Tuesday

“THE MUMMY’S HAND”
The Biggest Show of the Year

“ALWAYS A BRIDE”
“ROSEMARY LANE”

Wednesday and Thursday

“TUGBOAT ANNIE”
with Marjorie Rambeau
and Alan Hale

“THREE MEN FROM TEXAS”

GARRICK

Monday and Tuesday

“21 DAYS TOGETHER”
Vivien Leigh — Laurence Oliver
and “MEXICAN SPITFIRE

&
Wednesday — Thursday

“DANCE, GIRL, DANCE”
and “CHARTER PILOT”

 

 

 

 

 

       
      
       
  
    
  

‘The officials of the City Basketball League are apparently coming
' up against the same situation that
faced the City Football League,
- whamely, the problem of operating a
~ league in which Acadia and Dalhousie participated and yet not having
the two teams meet in competition.
This has all resulted.from the overdiscussed ruling of the presidents of
all the various colleges in Canada
that intercollegiate sports should bc
given up for the duration of the
war. Whether this ruling was right
or wrong is not being disputed at
present, but it is causing a lot of
headaches.

The basketball officials, however,
have a knottier problem on their
hands than the football league had.
The league at present has five members, so that it is impossible to divide it into sections or work out the
sort of schedule that was made out
in the football case.

As Acadia is the only team that
is not local, there seems to be a
general sentiment among the local

- sportsmen that the Wolfville institution should be asked to retire
gracefully from the league and play
with whosoever it will and play off
with the winner of the local loop.
This solution is apparently the only

Photo by J. C. M. Hayward

Aggressive Play Gives Win

Practice and Polish in Play.

Left to right, back row: Alex MacDonald (Manager), Don Warner, Marty MacDonald, Web Macdonald, Gordon Wilson.
John Mullane, Alex MacIntosh, Bob Blois, Bain Munro, John Scrymegour (Assistant Manager).
Front row: Ken Mitchell, Will Kapak, Burny Ralston (Coach), Dave Doig and | and Blanchard Wiswell,

SAINT MARY’S TRIM TIGERS,

WILSON, MacDONALD ; a
Ree et TACLIESIDown Tigers [tease tee or oe

‘ia Collegians.— Tigers Lack

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   

Tech Sextet

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

: Ry te Mas Beek ora
ESE A SA

7-2 | Students Wee
Of Alumni Titles

Due to lack of players the alumni
some of

 

_—

| participate in the annual champion| Ships held last week. Del Gibson
‘and Ray Murphy were successful in

In Close Win

men’s doubles cham
practical one, except the very remote possibility that Dal might
drop out, which can be erased immediately.
Thus the senior league, which
meets tomorrow afternoon at the
| “y”, has a weighty problem on its
hands and only until Tuesday to
| get it solved if it is going to start
| on the scheduled date.
| In general the thing is a mess
that will probably be handled quick| ly and efficiently by the league
members, but it is not likely that
we will be seeing Acadia hoopsters
play on ouv gym floor this winter.
* * #
A peculiar fact about badminton
was brought to our attention by
Prof. Mercer quite some time ago
in that this year it has been under
the greatest difficulties since it

started at the college, and yet there | !

has been the fullest program carried out of any previous year.

In former times, despite his intense organization work, it was
found to be impossible to keep two
leagues going, and one was a difficult task. This year, under the difficulties imposed necessarily by the
military training program, the sport
has flourished-as never before. In
fact it hag actually grown.

It may have been the difficulty of
getting the floor of the gym that
made the students appreciate, or a
rise in interest in the game or the
facility of getting the floor, although at a late hour after the
evening training periods had been
completed, or all three, but the
sport has increased and flourished.
More students take an active interest and participate in it than any
| other sport on the campus: Our

teams have been successful this
year and prospects are good for the
“A’s” to win the Studley title from
the Y.M.C. A.-Y.W.C. A. team that

has it now.

* *& &*

Wars and rumors of war, and particularly the latter, stand to influence the sport situation at Dalhousie again this year. We learn from
“reliable sources” (not the Wilhelmstrasse) that there is to be a
reduction in the hours to be spent
on ©.0.T.C. and that this reduction
will take the form of the cancellation of*the heretofore regular night
parades of the various companies of
the unit. This has naturally been
greeted with rejoicing by all.

It means that the gymnasium
schedule might be temporarily altered to allow more time for athletics. A widening of interfaculty
sport will be possible and the pressure on the all too short open evening periods of the gym now, relieved.

It is too early to say just what
extension of program could be
made, but there will be numerous
| suggestions as to how the time
should be apportioned and it is
hoped that the gym committee will
see that the time is distributed to
| those who will make the best use of

it and also to allow the greatest

n of students the use of gym
facilities.

  

‘did not have much more luck let
 

 

a

The Tigers suffered their third straight defeat of the
hockey season last evening when St. Mary’s downed the Tigers
7—2 in a hard-fought game at the Arena.

I Rus Webber Makes Sole Tally for | securing the

‘Both St. Mary’s | 5)

Dal.—St. Mary’s Lead League.

ppeashipe while the alumni took the
|mixed doubles, the other event in

In the last game which ;
| which the students took part.

ayed before the eee

t h e v

holi
forward lines gathered goals almost at will with a combination ide ays the Tigers suffered a 2-1 det

2

ae | Men’s Doubles: (Semi-finals)—

of speedy skating and smart combination plays.

The only two Dal scores were |
made by Gordy Wilson and noe
MacDonald. Wilson’s tally came in
the second period and Marty’s was |
a last minute attempt to get the |
black and gold squad into a more|
favorable position in the scoring
column. Both of the goals were
made with the assistance of George |
Corston who made his first appearance on the ice this year. Corston
played a good game in spite of lack
of practice. He filled in for Rus
Webber.

Don Warner replaced Bain Munro
in the nets for the third period
after the usually starry net minder
had let five shots past him. Warner

ting two tallies by before he settled
down to the game.

Hughie MacDonald and Mulcahy
rapped the first two counters past
Munro in the first period in quick
succession. Both the goals were
scooped out of close play behind the
nets.

St. Mary’s players were particularly successful in piercing Dal defences by the strategy of long forward passes to forwards playing
dead about center ice. Dal forwards
neglected to check back often
enough and in spite of a sharp defence put up by Web MacDonald
and Alex MacIntosh, the whole pack
of the opposing team coasted in
time and time again.

The Dal forwards were unlucky
around the goal mouth with Pineo
making a number of nice saves.
Both Marty MacDonald and Willie
Kapak missed shots as the dise slid
by the open goal mouth.

The Red and White forwards
hammered shots at the Dal nets
from all angles throughout the
game. Hard play around the nets
featured every tally of the game.

Referee Beazley handed out few
penalties and play was clean
throughout. |

Dalhousie: Munro (Warner), w. |
MacDonald, Mitchell,

Wilson, Blois, M. MacDonald, Ka-|
pak, Doig, Mullane.

St. Mary’s: Pineo, Munroe, Hill, |
Foley, Mulcahy, Ryan, Vaughan, H. |
MacDonald, Skerry, Kline, Radabics |

‘

TIGERS TO MEET
TECH THURSDAY |

The Tigers will meet Tech
in their second contest of
the College Service Hockey
League series next Thursday
night at the Arena. An increasing number of students
are attending that game, but
the team wants your support. Admission by Council
ticket. Skating fora quarter.

MacIntosh, | —

Hoop Activity
‘Resumed After |
‘Holiday Lapse |

both the
basketball

Regular practices for
| Intermediste and senior

|players started in earnest on Tues-/|turned in

day with Burnie Ralston getting his
teams into shape for the first senior
contest which will be held Tuesday
evening in the gym. Arrangements
concerning the Dal-Acadia games
which were placed on the schedule
before the holidays will have to be
made before the Tigers opponents
on Tuesday will be known. (See |
elsewhere on this page).
A large number of talented basketeers have been rounded up and
are getting in practice. These include Ben Wilson, Mike Smith, Cal
Seaman, J. Martin, Norm MacRitchie, Jack MacKenzie, A. Mac- |
Leod, Clayton Hutchins, Clutch
MacKimmie, Jack Charman, D. Anderson, Dave Doig, S. Green, Bert
Vail, Doug Lyall, Myer Zatzman.

Schedules For |
Wintes Games

Are Posted

The Badminton League, both senior and intermediate, will get underway next week. Schedules have |
been drawn up for both le
the rest of the winter.

The Senior league will play only |
six games during the winter months |
due to the inability of some of the |
teams to play oftener. ‘The Dal- |
housie “A” team which is partici- |
pating in this league will attempt |
to arrange some games with outside |
centers if opponents can be found. |
according to Prof. C. H. Mercer. It.

 

sagues for

|

has been suggested that they meet |

squads from Truro ,and Wolfville.

 

 

|Rus Webber made the only Dal | Jackson, a1 5
|tally in the middle of the second | |C. W- Sperry and R. Ev: Rd defeat'period. This loss put the Tigers at jed B. Blois and D. Doig, 15-9, 15-11.

| behind. 115-8, 11-15, 15-10.
| The game played at the arena padion Ponies: (Semi-finals F

was a close one with both teams he SR Longard defeated Mrs.

. Bronson and Dr. Nichols, 17-14, 15-3

| battling all the way. Bain Munro Mr Path end Mes EL R. Chipman

another stellar perform- debsatea Me CATIen wha BR. South |

ance in the Dal nets, stopping shots 15-6. 15-12 (Final) Oe 'e |

from every angle with ease and Liipnes anhiated My Batt and Mrs. |

eee Pe Yon eepes tony lisse: Chipman, 17-14, 15-7. eae ie

ithe schedule will
;and that two more rounds at least |

|
| 3.
|

eer As at, es Ring from Birks.

The Dalhousie “B” team will meet *
| the Air Force in an exhibition came | Henry Birks & i
on Friday night at 7.30. This is the ||
first time that the fivers have par- | Sons
ticipated in competition ith loeal

2 oF Diamond Merchants
| teams.

 

and R. Murphy defeated
nd H. Jackson, 15-7, 15
| Gibson

'at the hands of the Tech Pane

| (Finals)—D. Gibson and R. Mairohy

the bottom of the league with St. i
|defeated C. W. Sperry and R. Evans

Mary’s in the lead and Tech close |

| mered by the Tech forwards who}

| Mixed Doubles:
with a

(Semi-finals )—R. |

came thr c ,
ough the defence Allen defeated R.

 

 

|Murphy and M.

| Murphy and M. Aton, on,

in clear possession of the leadership |
of the

 

 

 

 

number of smart combination plays. | Evans and ‘M. Maéietosh: 16-12.1651
In the other game of the pre-|15 15-12. C. W. Sperry and M. Batt |
Christmas season of the college | defeated D. Gibson and A. Longard, |
hockey league the Tech sextet suf- 17-15, 9-15, 18-13. (Final)—c. w |
fered a setback from St. Mary’s, ‘Sperry and! MM Ratt detsated > |
leaving the maroon and white men 15-12. 17-14. |
al

}

It is expected that
be intensified now

league.

What Would

 

will be played if not more.
First Period
Tech, Bulley (West)

Second Period

' You Like

|
5.00, a}

1. |
| Before Christmas

2. Dalhousie, Webber, 7.36 money slips away,
Penalty: Webber. why not invest it in a
Third Period tangible, lasting gift.

Tech, Vaughan (Flemming) 4:36.

Mick Ryan refereed. Perhaps a College

 

 

See eA
er

   

DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requiremenets

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville. N. S.


MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED |
|

 

ee

— 4 FLAVORS

CHOCOLATE
BORDEAUX
ee Via
V2 V 1) a ee

January 10, 1941

 

 

 

 

For a Limited Time

Only

Reg. $10 Wave

2

An offer like this
should cause a ripple
of excitement among
co-eds — especially if
the New Year includes
a well-planned college
budget.
The offer includes a
regular $10 Permanent Wave, complete
with shampoo, cut and
finger wave, at exactly
half price for a limited

time only.

Telephone your ap
pointment today to
Simpson’s Beauty Salon, and ask for the

College Girls’ Special.

L-2311

 

The Robert Simpson
Eastern Limited

 

 

 

 

 

-~

 
