   
   
   
  
  
     
   
     

  

i What Price Student Governmen
i "AN EDITORIAL

a a ue of democracy for Dalhousie students may well
aye be Ths va after the sorry exhibition at the Chemistry
ie i ‘Theatre on Tuesday. No more vital issue could be at stake
than the proposed amendments to the Constitution, the fundaAiporee ntal law which regulates our life at this university. Apbi roximately one-tenth of the university was needed to sence
quorum, yet after much fruitless debate on the comparatively
trivial subject of the nickelodian the meeting adjourned beae: cause the required number of students to transact the important business had not turned up. No authorized person was
"present to take the minutes. No minutes of the previous
meeting were read. Perhaps one-half of the Students’ Council
was present. Amid the disorder of late arrivals the procedure
ee. of the agenda was reversed and an attempt was made to give
a rough idea of the various uses to which the students’ funds
are put. This appalling inertia of the Council and the student
 pody in their own affairs has brought about a very serious impier at in the life of this university.
hil in this paper an itemized account is given 0
Elsewhere a , the ‘Students’ Council on the various acizatior at this university. At every turn
er of “g af in the raat me only a
ed ugh ato sée

  

ot

ah pi

 
   
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
  

ent vo ox the expenses of
is. ‘he Sone ment shows the main
unts and it _ i ig a
nek e space in this publication to accoun
to. the the space It is to be hoped that this
. | be carefully scrutinized and at the next student
~~ fo) am, if all is not clear, intelligent discussion can take place
A oF oe wae 2 wee
e feel it our duty to point out to the student y tha
aes + tes of the our duty amendments to the Constitution lies
. rave danger of an unwarranted concentration of power in the
: 2 ands of the Students’ Council. We refer to the proposed ad4) — dition to Article 4, Section 7. This section would leave the
a _ various organizations at the mercy of the Council. It proposes
to | give that body jurisdiction “to deal with student organizaes Es ions whose policies are not, in the opinion of the Council, in
ro . the best interests of the student body, and to take such action
. and make such recommendations as it may deem expedient.”
if this addition were made, the whole life of the university
would be under the domination of a.small oligarchy. Instead
of a democracy we would be ruled by a council dictatorship.

We maintain that Article 1, Section 2, of the Constitution
_ gives ample power to this body which we so blindly trust will
_ carry out our interests. That section reads as follows:

ce: ae “Problems and matters affecting the student body as a

whole shall be under the immediate jurisdiction of the Coun
_ cil of Students, and problems and matters which relate to

one phase of student activity shall be under the jurisdiction

of the respective organizations and bodies which by their

constitution have the function of dealing with such problems
and matters.”

If the new section were added it would come in conflict
with the one quoted immediately above, because it would affect
matters pertaining to some special organization. If it intended
to regulate things in general it would be superfluous, as the
- Council already has this power. The purpose behind this pro: dated section is not quite clear. Existing liberties must not be
_ transgressed as has sometimes been the case in the past. Think
é _ this amendment over when it comes up at next student forum.

  

oe IT’S YOUR GAZETTE!

Ne The Gazette has a two-fold function: to enlighten and to
_ entertain. Although the paper can only be what the individual

} et make it, the policy can be better directed if it is
_known what type of material is preferred. In order to get coni ctive criticism we are holding a poll this week to find out
a - how you think the paper can be improved. All we want is your

oh onest opinion. If you think one type of material is being
ven too much attention this is the way to bring your grievce to our notice. A sincere effort has been made to make the
azette a representative publication in every way. Perhaps

have not been as successful as we hoped. Only by a poll
nis sort can an actual record of your preference be obtained.
naking your selection remember that the Gazette is first of
Ve university paper, and in the second place it aims to tie the

a

zing pearls on this campus into one homogeneous whole.

  

oft) es
WA Beha ss

, 05

  
  
  
   
     
 
    
    
   
 
  
   
  
 
    
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
 
   
    
    
    
  
  
  
     
  
   
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
    
   

tant, | ‘to consist ‘of a study of Canadian

  

 

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 27, 1939

     

t IL aw Capebtution

For Next Monday

A meeting of utmost importance
to the Law Society will be held next
Monday at 12 o’clock in the law
school. The subject for discussion
will be the Constitution. Various
sections such as the membership,
tenure of office, elections, fees and
amendment are all to be moved out.

 

Discuss Pickthall
At Midlothlan

Midlothian, the girls’ literary society, held its first meeting last Monday afternoon at Shirreff Hall. The
five new members admitted this year
are Louise Bishop, Mary Doull, Marjorie MacIntosh, Ethel MacKenzie,
and Helen Parker. %

| ‘The ‘program before Cis ene | is

literature; afterwards a survey of
modern European authors.

The first paper on Canadian literature was given on Monday by Jacquline Cahan, the President of Midlothian; it consisted of a biographical sketch of Marjorie Pickthall, and
readings from her works.

Next week a study of Isabelle
Crawford and Pauline Johnson will
be given by Kay Hicks.

 

Prosecution Threatened

On Anti-War Stand

An anti-war manifesto, signed by
75 ministers of the United Church
of Canada, one of whom is Rev.
Richard D. Roberts of Pine Hill
Divinity Hall Faculty, is at present
the object of an acrimonious attack
by Gordon Conant, Attorney General
of Ontario. An inquiry has been ordered and Mr. Conant has threatened to institute criminal action on
behalf of the Crown if his counsel
concludes that the manifesto has
contravened the Defense of Canada
Act.

Signed by Rev. Mr. Nicholson of
this City as well as by Dr. Roberts,
the “Witness Against War” states
the convictions of its signatories
and invites others throughout the
Church who feel led to ayow the
same, to forward their names for
later publication. Belief that “the

Continued on Page Six

 

 

Lawyers To Go
Into Dance

 

At a meeting of the Law Society
Wednesday noon, the students de
cided to hold the annual Law Ball
just two weeks after the Med. Ball.
This decision is in open defiance of
the Med. students attempts in past
years to run social and _ political
activities on the campus.
expressed that the Med students in
staging their fracas at such an early
date had discarded campus tradition

It was

and custom.

   
 
   
  
   
   
   
  

increase its value as funds permit,
the objective being a fund of $5,000.

Dalhousie has been accepted most

Moot oe Cau

Connolly Shield
and Players’ Guild

Every year several societies put |
on one-act plays on the Gymnasium

 

stage under the auspices of Glee|

Club. ‘They are in competition for
the Connolly Shield,

has, in the eyes of the critic, Prof.
C. L. Bennet, most nearly fulfilled
the conditions of a good production.
Some of these conditions are: suitableness of play chosen, suitableness
of actors for their parts; quality of
the acting, stage properties, and
other considerations of a like nature.
By the way, the half-hour or so
which Prof. Bennet devotes each
night to the judging is, in the eyes
of many, the most enjoyable part of
the evening’s entertainment.

The Glee Club Executive is anxious that it may get its schedule

for the year drawn up, and after

the Freshman Show, these one-act
plays will be the next on the list.
So any societies that may be considering the pleasure of possessing

‘the Connolly Shield are asked to let

Henry Reardon or Freda Cahan
know as soon as possible. Two
weeks will be just about the limit
which the Executive will be able to
allow for these entries. So let them
know, and then start work on your

play.
PLAYERS’ GUILD

There is on other matter. For
the last two years the Player’s Guild
has won the Shield. This society
held fortnightly meetings, read
plays, and had an enjoyable social
evening. In addition to the one-act
plays it has in the course of its
existence put on two three-act ones:
“Hay Fever” and “A Murder Has
Been Arranged”. There is a possibility that if this society flourished
again this year, it might be given
the pleasant job of producing a
three-act play in February. Then
there’s the one-act play for the
Connolly Shield which could be done.
Its’ fun to read plays too, believe it
or not. So if anyone is interested
in seeing this, dramatic, or playreading (or both) society carried on
please turn out on Tuesday evening,
November 7th, at 7.30 p.m., at the
Murray Homestead, and perhaps this
time we can make the Player’s
Guild into that society to which the
Glee Club will turn for BETTER
DRAMER,

 

Scholarship in Memory
Of Dr. MacMechan

A scholarship, of value $100, has
been offered by the Archibald MacMechan Chapter of the I.0.D.E. for
award to a student of the graduating
class in the Faculty of Arts, and
who intends to pursue graduate work
in English at Dalhousie.

Friends of the late Dr. MacMechan
who for forty years was head of the
Department of English inthe University, are raising this endownment.
It is the intention of the Chapter to

 

The offer of this scholarship to

which is pre-|
sented yearly to the society, which |

  
    
   
  

|

'

;

 

   
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

LEGAL MINDS
IN GREAT T DEBATE

After keeping the Gazette reporter waiting for 15 minutes the
Supreme Moot Court of Dalhousie
opened its fall session at 2.15 p.m.
on Wednesday, Oct. 18th.

Mounted on the bench were Lord
MacDougall, a bird who recently
nested near a railway bridge in Cape
Breton, Lord Mackenzie, a queer
duck native to Halifax, and Lord

Chief Justice Collins, a wild goose

from the barren wastes of Northern
Ontario.

the Smith Shield Committee
the time-worn “Foley v.
Coaches.”

was
Classique

or just could not be authoritatively
ascertained.

Mr. Trites appeared as humble as
a boy in his first long pants while
Mr. Hanway approached closer to
modesty by adopting a pose of
lifelessness.

The first person to cangratulate
their Lordships on their miraculous
elevation to quasi importance was
Mr. J. I. Bird, who opened the case
for the Appellants. His rich praise
greatly pleased the Chief Justice,
who smiled gullibly and remarked
that the words were “well spoken.”
After several minutes reflection,
however, he found occasion to remark that “all that glitters is not
gold.”

A ripple of mirth crossed the
placid court room when the Chief
Justice informed the sheriff that the
triumvirate wanted air. Mr. Bingham then opened the window and
gave him the air.

Mr. Trites spoke for an hour.
Mr. Burnett congratulated the
judges for the respondents and laid

Continued on Page Two

 

Council Business

—_—__—____

Important Meeting
Held

. Doug MacKeen elected advertising Manager.

Bud Macdougall appoint Council
representative on the Band Committee.

Kenneth Archibald made Assistant Business Manager on the
Gazette.

George Murphy created provisional editor of Year Book.
Recommended proposed amendments to the Constitution.
Possibilities of asys tem of bulletin boards investigated.
Marjorie MacIntosh appointed a
member of the Bookstore Com
6.

Whether the choice was |
dictated by thd Committee’s desire
to avoid a case they had not studied

: Students’

' Rangoon).

 

mittee,

cient ae inlets cia dsemibome
gratefully by the authorities of the
University, perpetuating as it does
the memory of one of its most loyal
and faithful teachers.

Gazette Poll!

Don’t Forget

to Cast Your
Vote either at
the Forrest or
Studley Store.

 

No. 4

enate in High-Handed Action

War Me easure
Restricts . Hockey

A drastic move on the part of the
| McGill Senate has aroused a major
 aanetebeees about that University’s
'campus. In what student opinion
|seems to regard as a transgression
against the rights of student government, the Senate, on Oct. 18th,
\issued a statement deeming it unwise for the University to participate in this season’s Quebec Amateur Hockey Association League
and withdrew their Senior Team
from the schedule. Believing that
“the international crisis demands
as much time as possible in preparation) for this (international) emer
gency”, the supreme governing body
The case selected for appeal by|

felt that in taking this step as a war

/measure they were facilitating the

plans of some of the players who
had expressed a desire to join»the
C.0.T.C.,

Students Protest

On the other hand, various individuals in the Athletics Council,
the Senior Hockey team and the
Council have gone on
Record as opposing the move and the
McGill “Daily”, pointing in a front
page editorial to the fact that the
Senate, before passing its motion
had heard the decision of the
Athletics Council and the Athletics
board, has asked, “Who controls
athletics at McGill?”

A concensus of campus opinion as
presented by the “Daily” records
members of the council as feeling
that the student body should have
been consulted and the decision left
to the Athletics Board, the organization duly authorized to administer
student sports.

One individual suggested that per
haps the Senate were afraid of the
team losing.

 

NOTICE

All those who wish to take advantage of the S.C.M. week-end
retreat get in touch with Jacquie
Cahan, Glynn Firth or MaryDoull.

Lucky Ottawa
To Read Gazette

The Gazette is at last sure of
more than one reader. As the situation stands at present one Webster
Macdonald has been the only con
 

scientious “cover-to-cover” peruser
of its pages. Beginning with this
issue, “however, “someone” in the

office of the Censorship Co-ordination Committee, “somewhere in Ottawa”, will carefully scrutinize each
printed word (including Rufus from
Campus firebrands are
therefore warned that anything,
true or otherwise, likely to cause
disaffection to His Majesty, or to interfere with the efficient operation
of His Majesty’s troops will be considered a -criminal act and dealt
with as such.

 
    
   

 
 
  
   
     
   
   
 
     
       
    
       
    
            
      
    
       
      
        
    
  
    
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

  

a time
va silo of
; ‘would have a

ity to show itself, he};
nake his position doubly sure. |

the house, he campaigned
‘province as an enemy
ti et ee: he claimed

  

  
  
  
 
 

 
    
 

 

   
 

ne rand? in Shieh ie saw
so ‘toward conscription,

Ee ate

 
  
  
  
 
  

  

 

D ieactatnly.
not made a
ng on)

 

 

 

   
  
  

 

     
   
 
 
 
 

ees Skt Tred 'y
ain! nz
pee the
the main. war
sdowed by that |

  

  

 

   
 
  

i mavey of the “Anen the only thing “made
cH that the people of Quebec
. srg election of the Liberals

  

   
 
 
  
  
 
   
      
    
      
 
   
    
    
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
     
  
     
  
  
   
     
  
 
 
   
     
  
  
 
  
 
     

5

rg TM. Prec had been tened and M. Lapointe made good

his threat to resign, a conscription
‘election. might have taken place,
| with esults. hardly to be foreseen.

‘ pay implicity the Liberal promise
is never to introduce conscription, perhaps: there lingered in their minds
. a - the haunting thought that Ottawa
' a might be more favourably disposed
Dery _ to them if they did what Ottawa
inted. In any case they played

ti

. s Be are JOHN W. GRANT.

 

e : a Sey 99”

= Maectead wd Arise! You may
‘i a ‘* down now. Too much attention |
is sb eing paid to nurses by those in
ei. ie Senior classes of our faculty.

rou. Veer getting nowhere—but
posit | not nearly fast enough. The Dentals

Ss . Begg says they
eal it “False impressions”.
_ Whose business is it anyway who
_ the Meds consider the best looking
ae ee Dalhousie col
and A. ‘AL oo poe D. J. Amiro,
» | KC, 2 Se

  

ot ar

1 es ae ‘raidated coaeckleda As

declared that Messrs.‘ Hart, Stewart,

u | Hutton and Daly had been guilty of
contempt of Court, though previ| ously warned, and were each fined a
Y | polar pie, judgment to be executed
Mr. Hart protested

“| immediately.
|that his financial fortification was

| the liability was “joint and several.”
Only three pies were duly presented
nevertheless.

Becoming provoked by a mistake
in the Respondent’s brief, Lord MacDougall advised Mr. Hanway to
check up on his stenographer and
make certain she stays in at night.
Mr. Hanway promised to do so and
the Chief Justice added that Mr.
Hanway would find the advice had
other advantages, too.

After a lengthy adjournment the
judges decided in favor of the Re|spondents. Lord MacDougall, who
+|last year unsuccessfully argued the
same case for the Appellants, appy penny convinced his brothers that
/\he had had the wrong side.

On Friday, Oct. 20th, the Gazette

| reporter, having profited by experi
ence, arrived in Court 15 minutes
late just as Court was opening. On
the Bench, violently puffing on vilesmelling stogies, were Chief Justice
Thompson and Lord Justices Bingham and Koretsky. It seemed to

the Gazette reporter that Lord |

Cragg should not have been separted
from the other Marks brothers.

_ The decision of the Supreme Court
.|0f Newfoundland in the case of
Doyle y. Bartlett, was being appealed from by F. L. Corcoran, K.C.,

t any gratitude would

| ethose.p rereasn were ekeus amused when Lord Koretsky fell from
the Bench uttering a mysterious
Russian oath, The necessary apology
‘promptly followed.

Mr. Corcoran was reprimanded by|
e’s Lord Bingham for a typographical
ve|error in his brief, but counsel ex
‘plained his brief was typed by the
Official Law School Stenographer.
(How about it, Ethel?) Counsel
then proceeded to enlighten the
-| Judges on his adventures before the
mast. f

Mr. Decker was lulled to sleep by
counsel’s voice, but Mr. McLeod
pointed out this impropriety to the
Court and the offender was disturbed.

Judgment was finally given in
(ekoar of the Respondents. Their
Lordships were of the opinion that
they had heard one of the best
argued cases of the year.

 

a car with their degree. Or a rifle.
Or a rattle. No smoking please.
Caffeine nerves result. Plumer wins
beauty contest. Reardon seen holding Ralph’s hand at Yacht Squadron

one Thursday night. I was told that

was funny. (Reardon thought female
was attached to hand). Curves.
Plumer. Why do we haze Freshmen? Should professors marry?
Co-eds eat too little. Inman’s Ford
has good brakes. Are you alright?
Love, Marg. wrote to ‘Dear Lib’.
Letter was found in Med. common
room. Letter amused Med students.
Ask any second year man. He will
tell you the time. If he can read his
}watch. Pine Hillers do too much
boating. The autumn leaves are
beautiful around Shirreff Hall, Rehearsals for the Freshman play have
begun. We have not enough hotel
dances. Who are those people? The
-|band will not play swing. The
r| Gazette is improving. Very kind of
n! you to say so.

he : ult, when Mr. Hanway i
2g athe ae that their Lordships |

ls : |a career on. ‘the Bench (i.e. in the
ine | third year) as they had at the bar
nO ‘| (ie. 2 years), the remark seemed to
te | pass: over their heads.

_ Shortly afterwards, Lord Collins,
who seemed to be stealing the show,

-|lacking but His Lordship declared

 
   
    
  
     
      
     
     
     
      
      
     
       
 
    
     
     
     
      
      
     
     
     
     

  

GRAPES OF WRATH Bee ‘erie eerie “The Grapes of

| Wrath” was published, Carey Mac
_ “...and in the eyes of the people Williams had written a book enthere is failure, and in the eyes of) titled “Factories in the Fields”,

the hungry there is a growing wrath. dealing with labor conditions in
In the souls of the people the grapes} California. It supports Steinbeck’s
of wrath are filling and growing! case. Further, Darryl Zanuck, who
heavy, growing heavy for the vin-|is not exactly noted for his revolutage.” tionary ideas, is filming it, and
Many critics have said that the| gteinbeck himself says he is satisonly good art to come out of Am- fied with the production. —
erict, France and England during You may not like Steinbeck’s realthese mad thirties has been prole- ism. Late years have seen the poputarian art. They point to Malraux, larization of the smutty novel. I
to Odetts, to the class-conscious contend that “The Grapes of Wrath”

school of American painting and|;, never smutty—that it is true and
sculpture; to Steinbeck. Above all,| Ji.) as O'Neill is true and vital;

to Steinbeck, For today he stands| that it is a picture of the America
at the pinnacle of the writing mount. and Canada of which we are ashamof America, acclaimed the most ed; that it is clarion call to all hongifted genius in years. “The Grapes est men and. women. So get your

of Wrath” has gripped the hearts hands on “The Grapes of Wrath”
and the imagination of the public as and. 're-discovar “the ‘land of the

nothing has done for a long time. free”, and discover John Steinbeck,

   

 

The plot is by now too well known
to need repetition. It is the simple
and straightforward story of a dispossessed family that moved to
California in search of the Eldorado
that must lie in that fertile land, to
find labor conditions so bad that
they could hardly keep alive. That
is all; but it is plenty. For Steinbeck sees as few of us see the earthshaking consequences of such matters; sees the nation through the
eyes of her down-trodden, is one of
the strugglers.

In reading the book one is constantly forced to think of the whole
U. S. scene. We must remember

 

EXCELLENCE IN
ENGLISH

By FRANK H. CALLAN

Excellence in English by Frank H.
Callan is a book which having been
once read begs for an immediate
re-reading. It is a complete and |
comprehensive study in the art of|
expression, considering not only the |
stricter properties of writing but of
those properties which are structural
or mechanical. The method of illustration is the presentation of choice

  

that these are nineteenth-century
English problems being re-enacted
in America. Steinbeck’s radicalism
is really only the mild liberalism of
the New Deal. And the same conditions have existed and do exist in
our Prairies.

articles by a great number of history’s most foremost authors. In
this way one is forced to recognize
the perfections and technicalities of
style—but more—to acquire a marked appreciation of these same qualities and a desire to furthur the seeds
of expression in oneself into a com
ganda”,

And it is bitter reading America’s best writer.

But still you may cry “Propa
plete perfection of style.
‘Sure, it’s propaganda; but

Continued on Page Three

 

j | members of the unit exhibited their

Geel Choe
% (Aa si f

|phases of an actual encounter; the
_ |creation of barbed wire barricades;

re: th en Fs ee ‘Weokts” activity of C.O.T.C,| front line trench warfare; advance
that fA could not culminated Saturday evening when|guards and scouting parties, etc.

| the northeastern corner of Studley|Commenting on the “battle” Major

campus became a veritable “Non|P. E. Cattley, Comneanding Officer
Man’s Land.” Witnessed by hun-|0f the Unit said, “On the whole, I
dreds of citizens, who watched the |am pleased with the showing of the
“battle” from Coburg Road, the |members, who, in spite of their short

,| training, conducted the work in a
The Third baie

commendable fashion,”
COLLEGE MARRIAGES

Jack Worrell, 3rd year medical
student (married). “I ain’t talkin’.
You may quote me as_ saying
nothing.” :

 

Captain Cameron, distinguished
himself by being taken prisoner by
an advance perey. before the battle
began.

The activity. of the unit this week
includes a general parade Monday
evening and a general lecture Wednesday evening on “Map Reading”
and “Martial Discipline.”
sections of the platoons will conduct
target practise on the miniature
range Tuesday and Friday evenings.
Sunday, Nos. 1, 2, 8, 4 and 5 Pla
toons will journey to the Bedford
Range,

Shirley Kirpatrick — Special Student. “Wait until I get married and
I'll tell you.” (Later broke down
and gave us her opinion). “I think
that college students who can afford
it should get married—if they want
to!”

T. Ashburnham Anderson,
year medical student. “My opinion
is definitely against it. A college
student who marries while in college
and who has not independent means
is lowering himself, not only in the
eyes of ‘his parents, but in his own
eyes.”

Betty Sandall, Arts ’40—‘“I don’t
approve of it. I think that marriage
is a full-time job, and I think that
college is a full-time job too, and
you can’t do two full-time jobs at
once and do justice to either.”

Glynn Firth, Theological Student
—“I approve of embryonic college
romances, but not those that hatch
out!’

Harry Smith, M. A. Student—‘I
disapprove. Girls just come to college to get husbands anyway, and
it’s too much to see them getting
away with them right under our
noses!”

2nr

Capitol

Continuous Performances
Daily from 1 to 11 p.m.

Today - Saturday - Monday

CHARLES LAUGHTON

“JAMAICA INN”

with
MAUREEN O’HARA
LESLIE BANKS

Tuesday - Wed. - Thurs,

“INTERMEZZO”

A Love Story with
LESLIE HOWARD

Columnists’. note: Married stu- INGRID BERGMAN

dents interviewed preferred not to
express an opinion. Significant?)

 

ii skill in arms for. more than three ,
‘At War hours. The “battle” exhibited all the |

 

Various |!

a.

- October 27, 1939

“ Are there any local regu!ations | should observe?”
“Yes, smoke your own Sweef Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

' “The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

J. H. CONN W. T. MARTEL

CONN & MARTEL
BOWLING & BILLIARD ACADEMY

Co. Argyle and Buckingham Streets

Halifax, N. S.

SHOES

For College wear or for
the Dance are better at
WALLACE’S.

   
 
 
     
   
   

It’s Smart to Eat
After The Show

The Cameo chefs are preparing your evening “snack” as
the last scene fades out at
your favorite movie. Many
theatre fans like to come to
the Cameo and discuss the
picture in comfort.

THE CAMEO

35 Spring Garden Road

The Student’s Shoe Store

Wallace Bros.

“Specialists in Fitting”
*

415 BARRINGTON STREET

PRET Ee a remnnC in
WHEN YOU NEED:

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

“ODUM TATA A

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
area Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Mate, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics,

Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of

M.A., M.Sc.

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.
The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;
in the B.Sc, course’ about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women,
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
   
    
   

 

 

         
       
  

 

 

 
    

        
     
 
    
     
       
  

 

  
  

   
  

   
 
 

   

   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      

    
   
 

 
  
   
   
  

 
 
   
 

 
   

 
 
 

 
 
   

 
     
       
   
   
         
     
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e *
ee Hockey:
y AIUD os reg bn ‘cis alain yale ante ee ia 13.50
PY Ce pM aN oes es eck til . EBA DOTIMMONS 8 Cs cinlruiwi eae even ee 22.50
Ries Boe Sa Vig Bete alas s ap Medical and Hospital DERE ec hse bet, 6.00 42.00
Awards 0......4). Riser cls, aS 573.91 Basketball:
Ole asec. >: Be ais 8.25! ‘Tennis: BISON SS ihe oe ee te 48.29
BREEN ose e's oaly sui 3 deep eed gst 317.73 Mapdbormenb re Fy. pedal ee: 11.10 oon Praca gaa eine a Neel ap
pcre . : PROGR Sie serch adv ea ON vader Ns 12.73
Bnet a ee CeO GREAT 2) 4, co hd sees ac cebas | 2.50 Tri 48.
RECEIPTS: SU Sct ce ones eae eye ee ale 52.83 66.43 PANO ace Soule tad vis. 6 = AVIS 4 WEEN Ole Waly Shee is 50 114.52 240.45
. < eee mie * _ $1,770. 00 Hockey: GLEE CLUB—
( )ovvee ener 857. 00 $8,127.00 Equipment as alee Tere ab mis AEA me 110.10 Sorry WABBOU A cai dal apa Nie Solna tee acta ee are
Nita Ty ei , BOM te sem PMM Ut Niele eee cnx act Duce 41.86 ONE SEROUS x24) nse es by anges ce daeas does .
see EX al sth mYiPAyh tin > 36 a ap a es Hospital Reo ce 22.00) sei ist eth Silk Wiprel B-sina aS Cetin ai'a REIS mre ratele wr Ouse kre aoe
) Meee cea ts et CAN OUDRHOS 2 6 i pec aA! 5.68 PRMOUE Om Gi liars hed alk lth Like Pee No a ies Be .
ms . é - Ms A. - 4% eee a * ee fon en bcuseae Ge 16.25 elt RijW. G4: eo: 6 "aa & ‘a-'et¥Le ote pie BR eb are be Binlaw la whe aie
é z eee wee . wee * nei ent SL a Ral crete Wa ome tonc bie. - k oya Ree aa leth 0 276 O Mae ica, bd CO Ee ae I ;
ee ‘Sales: ive caceel cate ties 6-« eee ts 30.00 8,290.52 Pocacntadions erat r ici. Arh eo SRRSMARRES Ao oc WGA Hrs Oe RC Se eae ual « : 17.36
RESO eee yh aR eyes. . 282.50 576.91 aoe EXPEMse 16. e ee eee eee ese e essen es bene
PANS nn ace ale Witig'c' witd aL iabAMe Alt eT Ate wie :
35.00 APRMBDOLUHAON 1.2 1 ois cat prin tte 1
Basketba rae ? ie INTERFACULT Y— | Sie OL eer cae eee 36,00
{ome ha 3 es eee y ao. 139.10 | Football: DEB RIE ECE eather be el ge ee dee dh gL, 70.99 795.26
Gee iiees an fs, 50.20 189.30 Meals CP we oe a le wee eee he ewe $29.96 Sees
BRE ee aes prs Lage atin tT ont PAIDMONE OF. soe a seed nw « 1.20 31.16 BAND—
a 6 ck ey: ae Ste aN act % Instruments 43.96
: Bee RGN LN EE 40.00 Becky: CREE Sars Seely shale nal oe aloe Rees :
“Bone « les fe . ae “ . oe ’ = . “ @ a0 4, 4-e 17.25 57.25 Equipment 62 o.h aah ae Sg OR de & sé &' 6! 's 15.00 ese Wit elt SP ea eernarthy mee af telgal eotie R aoe
a eee Ineidental 2000202000200 Ls ivansomitation sc. dott sya cd eee
Pa minton Rent i Sai Neem nag den Fon Diy, De RENAN eee He bed alvean pet PE Ena BABHOR hoists hap ieuulaHo: pasercv see vecs 40.00
ir ne ee SSM Seite Softball: UE ie ae aioe eet Do) Rac ed eee ne 60
Maia ee ae 14.60 PUT Pat oes ork car cura Ud Oe ees 25.60 188.70
Basketball: | SODALES—
MeV acaeernisigs Leis ale sy 8 fast eS Metts oe he ce ce ae TO Home Debates Hn Welle sewed wie w Ae wined bcm e ReLDS
" MOE GEIBORY Tle Scr, tua) Vers aizey a fis 5.00 50.70 AGIO MMebateR ie oda We ste ets. a) le 4.05
PRERRaRE  s nh NNR cea a mM PS A Ee 7.56
General: BpIeRttanS Sa. ies sherry uM ante hat aes 8.12
Remi Fo cs leuhah i Supt Sm foot] 24.76 BRE: We dace tw ss Pein lig Ree at 1.50
PUPAE OT oi os Nuance 2.55 Pave SHO AIS lecraltinedo Sol ee apa wut aca eueeet 20.26
Ba ayes giles ACE MISE MEN aid ys on os oo dt BOO BART 210.08 pect Univ. Conference ............0%05..... 62.55
zi BAM Sabi ioe erg iS, ores glee bite ete Gia w pelie dee helwe Dotelct 56.00 $ 289.59
D. A. A. C.
eee eee ee wee 85.00 earner GAZETTE—
arey EP CPOCOII ee Sells nt bere. $496.55 ‘nti
icc os Be Biante i.e. cs 9.60 Oe nner at cen ir ter reas
cu. or THE STUDENTS— ay Meee Use KWininies yi kaie<yalelesloaeem « « 50.00 REEONORE ASE LEN ait, cine etree hak tame Hada 16.00
$ 7.60 Beir ays SS ey Rettig fw ah Ace « « 10.00 Office Expenses, Postage, etc. ................ 80.96
Beis yoni 162.02 Pwere Pe aarti N: at aiteita See 2.88 $569.03 OMice Sreppites ad Sule it Meme ee cn Tae 21.95
Brine es Wits 6) @) #1416, 9.0) '9), 6 4 9.8 : a Mwards gad PYbeE tee ve LE Saleen « 46.10
= : 550.00 :
nes. eeeeee edie alk die Sees wes me eee ware ns . Ping Pong: Salaries Diet eet 200 00
r 36.15 eee re a RAN i ener para, orien on REPOS at co es isc re oot .
Bue Berane ee robe Ie, Meds or ae: 4) Se EN m sity saat RRPIRONGME Se Gi ce So) aus d'se cals, 41.63 PIAA: SOTO es Snide Ix Slew ie fie 8 phe uk, Lie 47.50
oe a CU, verre eee e seen eres nates Prizes and Awards). 0.0.05... ave... 1.42 Advertising Commissions .................... 67.37 1,754.80
ce ste cee eer Se ap TERE GN Coa. 4 shale SemIM, 3.50 46.55
fain i eet bg ACCOUNTS OUTSTANDING—
TACO RA 49.53 Rugby: D.A-A.C... General 8788) 6b oS 8.09
ete Bahstibe lod uN BE Ret ey 116.48 or emt yt uliiy Pure eich ae 98.40 PREPAID ACCOUNTS
Gairie SNP EY ‘ 236.28 RE ies end kta 4 wie leat ara by p dara aoe estes « 125.00
jy Clg i Dea aaa ia ue 47.19 MSIE 3 9 vos Bala lc eoheosa leas.» 2138.23 PBB General: sie sa ais aon! div uiweol ics 23.00 $9,043.90
* o ‘ee , 100 00 ene alee el ae eta a Y WB mit eo: Sie @e) wi wip x Jaleo er ahi vate 292.78 er nn
Pine ett ee SOR Me My eee Neti ye 17.75 See
woe 08 $1 890. 87 1. Doctor “and "Hospital eee. 179.92 CASH ON HAND AND IN BANK, July 31, 1939........... $2,361.88
| come Supplies | Misia el utd ru RG Redon «3 46.87 tre Bie
— Adverti BEng { Baie oe DUS wig Mac wiele Bie pa ks 8.10
1 een a Mie te riers KE 0 9-40 85.99 zs Contingent claim on account of Royalties adjustment,
‘ans bation, EAP SANE Gru asblgnss SA vibes 17.50 ~—-1,084.84 Samuel French ( Canada) Ltd. .
ee rise I have examined the eibten and accounts of the Secretary-Treasurer
ee piae UT eee ah ais ah les. Ge ce of the Council of the Students of Dalhousie University for the year ended
aA wid ote shee & lt '. Jul 31, 1939, h
cook oped. hat met es eek ae fo ire vy received all the information and explanations
NR EUMLEA Dh erebalicie iid hakeys ici sre iid by ah 2.50 72.79 $8,853.14
enter eee In my opinion the attached statement of Receipts and Disbursements
rae ee is true and correct, according to the best of my information, the explanaMe ee na Bae reeset ans htt tas eh tions given to me, and is in agreement with the books and accounts of
MANE Whe ets are kc. fee BAO the Secretary-Treasurer.
PARAMORE a ay aa es 35 83.93 HAROLD EGAN,

 
    
  
    
   
  
 
  
     
   
   
 
    
    
  
  
   
 
   
    
   
     
 
  
    
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
    
  
 
    
 
 
   
  
 
  

 

ca ‘ ie et left in time to catch

vith "hate shirts out went  teakiog
down to the Haunt of Ghouls,
ngin: “Dig, Dig, Dig, Well awcht.” Major Catfish, sword in

1, was happy. In fact, he was
; happy” he kept the boys out of
step by intermittently shouting
‘hip—right —hip—right—right—hip
a li ecup”. Corporal Corky couldn’t
very well understand this manouver,
fie felt his right hip anyway and
ms even. went so far as to carefully
se rutinize that part of the Major’s

 ewell Awrights” brought
ease to the window-panes
Za Morris Street, Private Minto

<:) ayne ya “vm

«

“Please, sir,” said Lifeboyd, “Rufus Raine has him cornered up the

flagpole. He is Sargy-Wargy Bawl
son and is an Arts-Engineer for this
year and inter-faculty purposes.”
Thank you, Lifeboyd. Have Rufus
Raine court-martialed or deflated,
roared Catfish as he sent back a oneman detail named Caporal- “makemine-rum” Corky to perform the
function. Corky, with bayonetsfixed and eyes shut, rushed forward
and punctured poor Rufus, who collapsed with a whistling sound and
muttered, “Revenge is horrible, Catfish, Fizzleque is looking for you.”
“It’s about time; I’ve been up
there a week,” muttered Bawlson,
giving the prone form of Rufus a
kick as he floated down from the
flagpole to join the troops who were

which lay a shroud-draped form,
surrounded by -test-tubes, retorts,
beakers ,apparati, witty retorts, and
a dozen N. S. brew which later

Jumped through the table to the
electrons above. The Ghouls ran for
their lunch and something moved
under the shrouds.

“It moves,” shrieked Laylow and
jumped gibbering horribly out of a
window into the arms of McGinty,
who was pulverized with terror.

Slowly the figure arose, shook off
the shrouds and reached for a brief

 

case. It was Wilbert P. Fizzleque.
“They have turned Fizzleque into
a Law student,” shrieked the Ghouls.
If you haven’t got the screaming

raw students jumped into Catfish’s
arms, who, at this unexpected show
of affection, fired his cap-pistol
three times at a retreating streetcar and murmured at Fizzlequ:

“Where is your lung and King
Carl’s dawg?”

“I am in very good health, thank
you,” quoth Fizzelque, “and I now
have a date with Kissy ——|—

eS eee eee ee
aaa

TIME TABLE FOR GYMNASIUM (MAIN FLOOR)

Monday
Morning, Physical Training
12.00- 2.30-—D.A.A.C.
2.30- 5.30—Physical Training
5.30- 7.00—Alumni
7.00-10.00—C.O.T.C., Main Floor
7.00-11.00—Glee Club, Stage
Tuesday

Thursday
Morning, Physical Training
12.00- 2.15—D.A.A.C,
2.15- 4.30—C.O.T.C. (if needed)
4.30- 7.00—Student Badminton
7.00- 8.00—King’s
8.00-11,00—D.A.A.C.
Friday

with which he peddled viciously towards the library, and the troops

turned green with envy.
* % *

“Have you looked under the corner table at Norman’s,” wailed Catfish, and fainted dead away.

Will Catfish find King Carl? Will
Otto the beaver find his dawg in
English 2? Will Fizzleque get Kissy Cameron home by deadline next
Wednesday? All right, officer, never
mind the jacket, I'll go quietly.

Chartered Accountant.

Excellence in English—

Continued fron: Page Two

 

The form is orderly; the comment,

a Kg: et Ir hua there were signs of gross proved to be inadequate. meemies by now come with me and THE THOT PLICKENS preceding and following the presenens po and Like It, discontent after the first tiring The electrons crackled above, the! we'll all go down to the Psycopathic| At this moment Blimp Mac-| tation of the illustrations, is worthy
Foutesmarch. retorts bubbled below and the ghouls! Ward, or attend Philosophy I, or| Twitchie ghosted past, aided by ajand concise; the quality of the

rd Help Those Who Help Them- 88 filled their flasks. As J. Prince | both. parachute, clamoring, “ Dawgone,| matter is excellent. The book is

f selves to My Stuff. THE SQUEALER Charmin threw the switch a spark; At the sight of Fizzleque twenty King Carl has disappeared.” comprehensive, instructive, and au
thoritative. In a convincing manner
it points out the philosophy of each
composition with its immediate
characteristic. For all those who
are interested in writing and the perfection of self-expression — that is
accuracy, clearness, and eloquence—
I would suggest a thorough reading
of this praiseworthy book.

 

It's Your

waiting to have your opinion.

Gazette |

ACT NOW!

Deposit your ballot in either the Studley or Forrest stores. We are

already in a mess*around the Haunt Morning, Physical Training Morning, Physical Training GU), AGE Shas sss aie hace We ead Bea Suite An iw viele a $4 g REA O She eee

by rs "Please, sir, there is no Sargy- of Ghouls. 1200- 2.30—D.A.A.C. 1200- 2.15—D.A.A.C. (2) Sport .. BA Pate dc ORS a a oe a Ria bala
3 sy in charge of platoon number sO easy 2.30- 4.30—D.A.A.C. PROT. Cir MaGNea) te fies Sem, Ship en eye ee gS pes ;
_ three. That is, if those degenerates| EXPERIMENT OF THE WICKED] 4.30..5.30_D.G. A.C. 4.30- 7.00—Student Badminton (3) Campus News ............ Sa tries eae ek eee ctu e teh

p swith yo-yos are platoon PRINCE CHARMIN’ 5.30- 7.00—Alumni 7.00- 8.00—King’s (4) Literature D

| As Catfish prepared his attack |  7.00-10.00—C.0.T.C., Main Floor $,00-11.00-—Glee Club (if needed) |" 0 re Nang ee kee ee

: » no Sargy-Wargy ? Silence.| all was very eerie inside the 7.00-11.00—Glee Club, Stage Saturday (6) Personals .0 io ce bec on Ms GE BUait aa a cians ta eee g ora
hy must you use Sherriff Hall talk} Haunt. The Ghouls in white robes Wednesday Morning, Physical Training

arn my?” roared Catfish, blush-| flitted from room to room, drink- Morning, Physical Training 12.00- 1.00-——D.G.A.C. (6) International Affairs ...... Be Sheep ve ale fuk ee eh eee nas
at the mention of the Hall. But| ing coca cola. Laylow sat whim- | 1200- 2.30—D.A.AC. 1.00- 2.15—D.A.A.C. (7) GiGOMRIA idee caixcs cae Cee aires «tapas anes onan

d his normal complexion to| pering in a corner. The Plum- | 930- 3.30—Miss Wray, Class 2.15- 4.830—C.0.T.C, (if needed) |
troops if they knew where| mer’s sole activity was to see how 8.30- 4.30—Miss Wray, Class 430- 6,00—Student’ Badminton (8) Social Problems ........... Be es SOA ee pase in weed ses eet
b was, who he was, pee many words he could conjure | 4.30- 5.30—Mr. Ralston, Class 6.00- 8.00—Alumni

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

mints ae

from the letters D.A.A.C.

Something weird no doubt was

oy In the green light of a lab

5.30- 7.00—Student Badminton
7.00- 8.00—King’s _
8.00-11.00—D.G.A.C,

8.00-11.00—Faculty

COMMITTEE.

Please list in order of preference the type of material you would like
STUDENTS’ GYMNASIUM |I to have in the Gazette:

ee a ia ae eae anole i a

 
   
 

 

ie,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

THREE ESSENTIALS
An Evening Wrap
An Escort
A Corsage

We invite you to inspect our new
and varied assortment.

See the new “Bouclé Wrap”
Velvet or Fur

Prices 23.50 and 45.00

at
SSG Se

BASS ALS | SS Be
AS. SSS s)

w EVAL s\ 9 rs

    
     
     
    

hater Y hae

Tye) FS ey Ge te

en a EO AAS

4 is .
Sy ee i ie a as rea ae ) .

4.
i a

m8 of bi ake ee es
q al Peres” tka ibe es Mites 2 keh. a ue

      
   
   
   
 
   

 

 

 

 

    
   

DALHOUSID GAZETTE

 

 

  

 

 

    
 

 

 

x.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Med Ball

Once more we’re on the threshold of another gay season of social
activity ...and once more it’s time to examine your formal wear
wardrobes with critical eye. When you conduct your examination
remember EATON’S is known for distinctive formal attire and
accessories,

. For the fairer sex we offer a selection of new
arrivals in evening gowns ... we invite you to
see them while assortment is complete.

- No matter whether the men prefer “tails” or
tuxedos our clothing department is ready with
the season’s newest models.

. Footwear is important, and the range of evening
shoes for milady is very appealing, both as regards style and value.

. Complete range of all accessories is featured at
EATON’S .. . jewellery, gloves, hose, etc.

EATON

“T_ EATON LIMITED

oH
Photo by Edw. A. Bollinger.
: Naugler; Drums: Buster Murphy; Saxes: Joe Laba, Fred Covey, Arne Benson, Harold Mosher; Bass: Al Streeter;
sane erect Leh Murray, Bazil Russell. (Trumpet absent from picture, Andrew MacManus, Jr.) |
) SLT | i ———————— |
| | ( d |
GOOD CLOTHES -- - On November 2 ‘ )
‘i f : /
Carefully tailored and fitted . . . are a definite asset Once again the medical tar )
from both a social and business viewpoint. dents start off the new year'| / )
with their great extrav: aganza.| ?
t We Sell Good Clothes — Reasonably Priced ° “The Med Ball”, Ina a ay of | Q |
; being different the ball is to be
“Cabaret” style. Jerry Naugler | CG Y |
SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP and his ten-piece band will et Your )
3 supply music for those who d |
¥ 30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD wish to jutterbug. The Nova| Corsage for the l
re Scotian ballroom will become a| )
a veritable dreamland capably | ‘
Ne . decorated by the members ot § Med. Ball
aa [ the dance executive. The a
ey . MED B AT I (let us not forget the food) | unde
' shall be as always that of the from
GIRLS... you will want to look your |} very best and most delicious! | )
loveliest at the Med Ball, won’t you? SomeJ thing new — different. Call for your ap- For those of you who are }
| pointment now—don’t be disappointed. i )
| a fortunate enough to attend this | (
_— Bere dance of all dances would do} /
the Dal-King’s Co-Eds. eS wis
ie = well to patronize the advertis-| Pr aac ae
| Emile ers on this page, not only be-| ( RE Ee
Hairdressing cause they are our advertisers | ( B-7062
Oxford Theatre Bldg. but because the service and / '
Marquis, Manager value that they render is second | (_ — — ~~~—~~—~.—
ss Anne MacLean, Prop. to none! a
9
A BEAUTIFUL CORSAGE TO
DELIGHT YOUR GIRL TS
Our flowers are freshly cut and our Offers Correct Fashions
a corsages are daintily made up to delight the heart of any girl. in
The Rosedale Nurseries r orm al W ear
: 31 SPRING GARDEN RD.—B-6440 Y.M.C.A. BLDG.—B-7530
: for the

Bal aus’ Social Event of The Year

 

 

 

October 27, 1939

 

  

FORMALS .-- for the Med
Ball

Send your formal wear to Cousins
today for dry-cleaning or pressing.
You'll look better . feel more assured ...on the big night of the
Med Ball.

Telephone L. 2323

Cousins

Se ee

 
   
 
      
     
   

MASTER CLEANERS POTENT DYERS

Evening Finery .. .

Requires Sheer Chiffon to
Add to Your Charm .. .

There is a new thrill in wearing a delicate sheer silk chiffon that
resists runs, and enables you to put your stocking cares aside for
the evening. No need to worry about runs—insist on...

PARK AVENUE HOSIERY

No. 60 PURE SILK CHIFFON
Individual lengths

$1.00%2

Winnie Mae Shoppe

30 BLOWERS STREET HALIFAX

 

TAXI !

Cail PEN DER’S
37.17

Taxi and Bus Service
690 Robie Street and at the Nova Scotian Hotel

CHAS. A. PENDER, LIMITED

 

BEAUTICIAN

For The Ball

YOUR
HAIR-DO?

To be sure you'll look your best
and smartest, have a Coiffure by
one of our experts. We’ll tell you about the bargains
in Permanents and all our services that we offer for
November. It’s the month that WE have a birthday
and YOU get the presents.

 

24% SPRING GARDEN RR

  

a

oe

siatieteioen

:
’
:

 

 
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
    
  
     
   
       
    
   
   
 
   
   
     
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
    
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
  
 

> LAW AND
= PROPHETS

i idols have spoken
rs have seen a lie, an ection
therefore

. B. o> 6

w aid
an nh eye on one of the minor scourges |
the twentieth century, the Com
io, or the “informed” treatise, of
-which last that revered tome, “Inside
Eu Surope”, constitutes a classic expale. But alas! If tite. prophet

he dada too little credit for their
resiliency. Within a week of the
jazi-Soviet accord, so far from go; their way, as a flock or other-|
wi rise, our seers were blandly assuring
oa that they knew it all the time,
and ee daily-mounting evidence of
ee ee errors is gaily |

‘i E _ ditor to do a little ciuch biting for
i a Po. ad Oracle. _ Our Pace

| eiies.. And yet we hesitate. For
due to the operation of evil forces—
a doubtless the baneful influence of the
Ee Cz apitalistic System—we are not yet
numbered among those cheery few
who peels cash _astronomical

an a one, we submit, is the
din avian writer, | Waldemar
an, whose little book, with its
> “The Future: of

 

 

 

  

2 ae roth. to be. blown
r sata first breath of common
. That the Aryan myth forms
of the Communistic catehe admits, observing, howa government such as the
responsible for the ruthless
ation of millions of its own

will searcely recoil in virrror at the slaughter of a
thousand Hebrews in Germany.

7 that Gurian is blind to the
: 1 ulties inherent in such an allie. While declaring the fundantal ‘sympathy of the two doc
zi sm’s only excuse for existence
y well disappear in their minds,
rith h results unpleasant to Herr HitBut such a revulsion, though
instantaneous, would be

ei upon some crushing military

ment of a long sustained ecoic blockade.

apparent conflict of territorial
asts need be, he considers, form
bstacle to a Russo-German pact.
Soviet, recognizing the democ
s ambitions, may well decide to
the Reich, meanwhile exactitable compensation, such as
ation of the Baltic, and hopthe end to swamp a victori
t weakened and restless Ger
 

  
        
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
   
    
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   

e aaa will ee come, and that

; GROUNDS FOR MURDER .

at or the progressive discour- |

s as the most serious barriers.

us J.P. FINLAY.

"The Eepleee

NOCTURNE IN BLUE... a lithe,
q | piue-clad maiden glided from the
~| Montreal Express Saturday night.
She had sparkling blue eyes, a vivid
complexion, natural raven-black hair,
land a ravishing, celestial smile.
Monsieur Victor Gladu—Congrats!

A SONG IS BORN ... a dental
student has just composed a new
melody. It’s lyrics are as follows:

Why not love me to-nite, my dear
“Tomorrow may not come.

Instead of shedding a lonely tear,
And making me feel numb!

Your lips are like ripe cherries red
Your liquid eyes divine.

And after all is done and said,

I hope that you'll be mine!

My heart, it sings a rhapsody.
A melody so gay.

And yet, it seems a parody

Of what your smile can say!!! !

GLEE CLUB...

PRESS FLASH . .. Dentistry gave
to mankind the boon of anaesthesia
through the discoveries of Morton
and Wells. Now, Dr. Vishnevsky of
Soviet Russia by “the saturation of
sections of the body with large
amounts of weak solutions of NOVOCAINE \has performed the most
difficult internal operations’. Note:
Novocaine is the stuff in the “needle”
that makes a dentist “painless”.

OEDIPUS COMPLEX ... To out-oftown studes, the phenomenon of
trees garbed in resplendent tunics of
‘scarlet, yellow, and flame color shedding little golden leaves brings
nostalgic thoughts! We think of
“silver threads among the gold”, and
of the steady girl-friend in her
Autumn—Mother !!! Shouldn’t we
continually rejuvenate her for her
bequest of the Elixer of Life? Our

. are you interested ?

i
a 9

. As
is usual after shaving, I had ap| plied shaving powder to my physiognomy just prior to stepping out to
the dance. At said terpsicorean
area, a young, giggling damsel with
whom I then had the misfortune to
be dancing, blithely chirped. “Bob,
what type of powder do you use?”
I told her, and she gushed, “Oh
then, I must get that, for you know
the saying “Do as your dentist does,
use powder!!!” Eureka!!!

VOYAGE GUIDER ... Human
beings are ships upon the ocean of
life ! ! Our ports and courses vary,

many with floods of insidious propaganda, by violence, or by both
methods.

Germany, he prophesies — with
startling accuracy, as it now appears
—will be forced to live for the moment only, to snatch at any straw,
and to accept the immediate benefits of Soviet aid regardless of the
future. Italy Gurian visualizes as
either neutral—which he doubts—
or allied with the Western powers
on the basis of common interest,
hatred of Communism, and ItaloGerman mistrust.

Scandinavia is seen as an active
partner of Britain and France, an
alignment provoked either by o Russian move against Finland or a German descent upon Denmark. On the
position of the United States and
the Balkans, however, Gurian maintains silence, an example which we
discreetly propose to follow.

In conclusion, since, by the time
these lines appear in print, Costa
Rica may well have declared war on
Iceland, and New Jersey may be
mobilizing against Nebraska, let us
emphasize that the views expressed
above were those of M. Gurian; any
complaints or criticisms -will therefore be addressed to Copenhagen.
We now retire to pray for the Commentators.

hil- | rooms. But “the man who 3 was marto| ried eight years” tried hard, didn’t
ele? 4

(With malice towards all.)

“The little pig was heard to say.”

Once again, the “eternal Freshman” MeNight takes first place in
the sty. Apparently the remarks in
this column have borne fruit, for he
has dropped the freshettes. His
latest victim was cornered in the
store the other morning and apparently the only way that she could
get away was by saying, “Yes, at
seven-thirty.” Were you “Oz-ified”
by the “Wizard of Oz” or by Ossie,
Kay?

* *

We take this opportunity to advise George Collins that he should
take advantage of the C.O.T.C. rifle
range. We hear that on a hunting
trip the other week-end he missed
a deer twice at such close range
that he could have wrestled with it.

* Bd *

Koretsky told us in strict confidence the other day that he was
mortified at being referred to as
Corporal Corky by Rufus Rayne
when he’s a half-fledged sergeant-major

*

*

It was too bad that Lieut. Lawson had to stay with his platoon until the end of the battle last Saturday night while the little “breath of
Heaven” from Mount A. was mak
ing the most of his absence.
OF |

We hear that Penny and Joan
were stood up the other night. While
we don’t know the circumstances,
we offer this as an example of what
might happen to lots of other nice
girls we know down there at the
Hall who think the world was made
for them to walk on. Remember the
Med. Ball is coming.

ee
The second year Meds ought to

8 meneeee: of themselves reading

*

* * &

_ Adelaide, the red-haired siren from

Mount A., was a choice date at

Sackville, but according to reports
she seems to have cooled off a little
here at Dalhousie. Is it the salt air

or the Halifax technique?
* *« *

It was shameful the way the Dal
boys let the Acadia girls go stag to

 

being determined by our ambitions
and resources. But we must ever
bear in mind that when the ship goes
to the scrap-yard of death, the
“logs” of the voyage will be examined by the Master Mariner — the
Almighty !! ! unto you” !!!!
R. H. W.

 

 

   
   
 
   
   

 

 

Dalhousie’s

WHO'S WHO

(1) Joan Blackwood, who came to
Dalhousie from the largest town in
Canada — Glace Bay, in fair Cape
Breton—is in her Senior year of a
Bachelor of Arts course.
she plans to return to take either
Education or her Master’s degree for
her chief ambition is to be able to
teach English.

Joan has had a very busy life
since she came to Dalhousie. She
belongs to Midlothian, is President
of Delta Gamma, is a representative
for Arts & Science on the Students’
Council and is also on the Executive
Committee of that organization.
Last year Joan was Associate Editor
of “Pharos” as well as being Exchange Editor on the Gazette. She
has played not only on the Senior
Girl’s Basketball team, but also
made last year’s Badminton team.
Joan has acted in five plays while
at Dal — a Munro Day _=§ show,
“Twelfth Night”, a Freshman show
and two one-act plays and yet has
managed.to pass in all those necessary exams.

 

the tea dance last Saturday after
the game. But George overdid him
self with Cousin Marg, trying to}

make her feel happy about the 7
| thing. .
ee

It looks like there is a double play
coming up for Betty Harris — the
popular stenographer — Collins to
Martell to Fennell.

* *& &

To all interested: That dreamwalking Frank Corcoran was so
proudly displaying at the Track
Meet the other week is from Ottawa
and his wife to be. That’s why the
cold shoulder was passed around.

* * *

Oh, ho! Oh, ho! Was Gordon’s
face red when he appeared in lab.
the other morning, or was it lipstick

on his collar?

re

New Age of Chiselry: Not content
with sowing the seeds of discontent

in the Smith-Merchant romance, you
talk a nice girl out of a nice date to

‘Youn TIP TOP OVERCOAT

is not just a garment, It has a definite personality—because it is made for a personality—for YOU! It reflects
your selection of fabric, style and color; it is hand-cut
and tailored to your personal measurements. It is all yours
—not just a coat made to a size.

 

Next year |

‘trated Robie Street.

 

MORE THAN 500
PATTERNS TO
CHOOSE FROM

 

go out with you, you rat, MacDougal. And the next time Phyl
Stairs stands you up, Kinley. . . forget it.
oa
Advice to John Tasman: When
you’re invited for a nine o’clock
date, don’t arrive at seven-thirty
and scare the little lady out of her
bath tub. Or has Penny such a hold
on you that you couldn’t wait?
Leighton found her; Dunsmore
spent a year chasing her; now, who
will win—Kempston or Meade? The
lady in question is that dizzy blonde,

Joy Morrison.
*

* *

* *

Open Letter to Jack Arnell

Dear Carstairs — Never having
been known to return good for evil,
we'll return evil for evil. The German Navy penetrated Scapa Flow,
now the British Navy has peneWe saw, and
would like to know who Marion was
with at the game on Saturday. We
were told he was a naval officer, but
what were those funny things he
was wearing for “pants”? Kindly
take note of this, for we warn only
once. We’d suggest that you try to
play “convoy” instead of letting the
Navy do it. _

Insincerely,
We, the author.

* * *

Remember, folks, little pigs get
around, and to stay out of the sty,
stay at home. As a hint for what’s
coming next week—Who took what
from whom?

Visit Our Oyster Bar

Fresh Oysters, served just like

you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

GAUVIN & GENTZEL
Special Rates to Students
24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone B-6992

 

     

as
Cf A Fuel For every purpose

Good Coal, Clean Coal,
Coal that looks good,
burns better and heats
best of all.

We have the most desirable stock
of coal to be found in Halifax.

|

Dustless
Direct to Bin Chute Delivery.

R. E. Archibald

Phone B. 8133
297 Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

 

 

 

There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

 

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — You'll Enjoy It!

 

     
 
 
  

Insist on
Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. _B-6821

    

Te The Class
of 43

For the class pins and
rings, Birks have new
designs, and attractive
prices.

We invite your com
mittee to come in and
take advantage of our
experience.

Henry Birks &
Sons Ltd.

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

“9 H%

Courtaulds "Quality-Controlied” Rayon Linings are an
extra value feature in Tip Top Clothes.

422 BARRINGTON STREET

HAND-CUT AND INDIVIDUALLY
TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL

       
       
       
     
   
 
 
   
   
   
       
      

 
 

College men, call at COLWELL’S
on Barrington Street for all your
clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

» Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accessories.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

  
 

   

ORPHEUS

GLORIA DICKSON
DENNIS MORGAN

“WATERFRONT”

Second Feature
GEORGE O’BRIEN

ST

“TROUBLE IN
SUNDOWN”

 

MEASUREMENTS

 

 

 

 
   

 

_ three-quarter line.

2@utCo,

Two Games tak " Play

As Tigers Clinch Title

 

A decisive victory over Acadia
Axeman to the tune of 16—3 put
Dalhousie well out in front in their
race for the City League title. Held
scoreless by the aggressive Axeman

for the first half, the Tigers returned

to rout their ancient foemen, 13—3.

The scrum was working fairly well

and the backfield showed a decided
improvement.

- Wednesday at Acadia saw the
Wanderers routed by one of the
most decisive defeats in their long
career, This was welcome news to
the Tigers, who saw their dreams of
a conflict with Caledonia beginning
to materialize.

Although there are two games
left in the schedule, Dalhousie cannot be ousted from the premier position. The next engagement is tomorrow at Redland, when Tigers
and Wanderers meet for the last'|
time this season.

Cubs, 0- Acadia 13

The Cubs faded before an aggressive attack of the Acadia Seconds.
This was the first loss of the season. A little more spirit and practice will make a difference in their

play.

Constant Practice

Under the watchful eye of Burnie
Ralston the Tigers are drilling hard
every day. To cope with Caledonia’s
mass plays and high kicks, an attempt is being made to develope the
Bengals along the same lines. The

scrum is practising so as to form |.

a second line of defence behind the
Although one or
two men are out with injuries the
‘squad as a whole looks in tip-top
condition. The game with Caledonia
will probably come off some time in
November and should be a fine
match if present signs are any indication.

D. A. A. C. Meets

The semi-annual meeting of the
Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club
was held yesterday noon in the
Chemistry Theatre. Such a meeting
is held once every year for the purpose of giving the students an opportunity of expressing their views
on Dalhousie sport to the D.A.A.C.

The meeting opened with Ralph
Plumer, President of the D.A.A.C. in
the chair. Secretary Charman read
the minutes of last year’s semiannual meeting, and following this
the meeting was thrown open for
discussion.

About the only thing of importance to come before the meeting was
a proposal put forth by John Fraser,
Dalhousie Swimming Manager, that
Swimming be made a major sport.
Mr. Plumer explained the D.A.A.C.’s
stand on the situation, and the matter was left hanging in the air.

On motion the meeting adjourned.

 

 

 

‘CUBS LOSE ||_'|
11-0 TO TRURO

With their goal line still uncrossed
Truro Bearcats down a fighting
squad of Dalhousie Cubs by a score
of 11-0 in an intermediate fixture
played at Truro last Wednesday. By
virtue of this win, Truro now lead
the intermediate loop.

The Truro scrum clicked to perfection, and at half time they had a
commanding 8-0 lead, Theakston,
ball quarter scoring the first try of
the game. The try was not converted. Minutes later MacDonald
scored Truro’s second try going over
near the posts. Cummings converted
to give the Hub boys a. 8-0 lead.

Late in the second half, Truro
counted their final try on a threequarter run, Marble crossing the line.
The attempt to convert missed.

Theakston and MacDonald played
heady ball for the winners, with Ferguson, Ross, and Bundy being the
pick of the Cubs.

Line-up:

Truro: Fullback, Felmming; threequarters, Theakston, Langille, Davis,
Archibald, halves, Theakston, Totten,
Patillo; forwards, Hoare, McKay,
Johnston, Dexter, Marble, Cummings
MacDonald.

Dalhousie — Fullback, Worrell;
three-quarters, MacKenzie, Fennell,
Murray, Ferguson; halves, Bundy,
Leith, Ross; forwards, Phillips, McGregor, Hagen, Jannigan, Hennigar,
Murray, McCollough.

 

Girls Begin
Ground Hockey

A week ago Wednesday the girls
had their first practice game with
H.L.C. Although there was lots of
good individual players at Dal, most
of them had not played together before and showed that they needed
a lot of practice in team work and
co-operation.

The game last Wednesday showed
much improvement, however; it
again was against Ladies’ College
and both teams played better hockey. Although H.L.C. won, the
game, they had to work hard and
did not get any points until the
second half. This better hockey
heartens us and we hope the progress will continue. Yvonne Mousey,
who has played the game in England and knows a lot about it, has
proved to be an excellent player—a
great asset to the team.

Among the Dal girls seen out
were Peg Gorham, Dot MacKenzie,
Joan Moon, Betty Harris, Libby
Boak, Betty Sandal, Bunny Morse,
Joy Morrison, Daphne Clark, Marion
Tregunno, Yvonne Mounsey, Reta
Harrison, May Manhing and Ethel
MacKenzie.

Dot MacKenzie, the ground hockey manager, has written Edgehill,
inviting their team down to play us|
on Wednesday next. The Windsor
team is usually well drilled and the
game ought to be a good one. The
Dal team will probably go up there
for a return game on the following
Wednesday.

 

THE GRAPEVINE GRAPHIC Sees ss 2

SUBVERSIVE
LITERATURE!

'
J
—
Ss
—“s
a
<——

a
eA
fy

FANS
\"
ARO

ay)
4
A

NN

‘

 

  
 
 
 
 

(- UNACC USTOMED © AS =
I AM To PusaLIC
SPEAKING

  

aoa)

 

 
    

af

Titk ie alg As Reds Lose

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Charles Lniiebtien, with vistol and baleful look, menaces pretty Maureen
O’Hara-in this scene from the Paramount release, “Jamaica Inn’, which
starts today at the Capitol Theatre.
served as the original for this screen story directed by Alfred Hitchcock.

 

Keen Interest in
Interfaculty F Football

With half of the Interfaculty
Football. Schedule completed, the
Med team is leading the league by a
bare point. Each team receives two
points for a win and one point for
a draw. Here is how the teams|

stand at the half-way mark. )
Played Won Drew

 

Lost Points

Medicine 3 2 1 0 5
Law 3 1 2 0 4
Arts & Sci. 2 1 1 0 3
Engineers 2 0 0 2 0
Frosh 2 0 0 2 0

Softball Schedule

‘Due to a shortage of time in the
gymnasium after Christmas, it has
been found necessary to play a
portion of the interfaculty softball
Schedule before Christmas. Last!
year the title was not decided because of congestion in the gym, but
it is hoped that this year the full
schedule will be played. The Freshmen are the defending champions.

 

 

Following
schedule—

Nov. 2—Arts & Science v. Dentistry
Frosh v. Law
9—Arts & Science v. Medicine
Dentistry v. Frosh
Nov. 16—Medicine y. Dentistry
Frosh v. Arts & Science
Nov. 283—Dentistry v. Law
Frosh v. Medicine
Nov. 30—Arts & Science v. Dentistry
Law v: Medicine
Games will be played at 7.15, the
second game o fthe evening to start
at the completion of the first.

BASKETBALL.

It was decided to start basketball |
this Wednesday night at 8 o’clock,
and the other practices will be Saturday at noon and Tuesday, from |
4.30 to 5.80. These practices are for
everybody, so let’s see you there.

We hope the interclass league will
be starting soon. This league is
really most interesting because it

is the pre-Christmas

Nov.

 

 

 
   
  
 
   

haga

ae Ai
a

a I
ce i)

i

ca

ian

inl

yy

The Daphne duMaurier novel

takes in everybody except those who
have played on the intercollegiate
team. There should be some good
taems this year and those games on
Saturdays will be good run. Besides,
there is a nice cup awaiting the

 

winning team.

 

OWN. A ROYAL

The Portable with Big Machine features

 

GENEROUS i ae ON
YOUR OLD MACHINE

SEAMAN-CROSS LTD.
B-6542 56 GRANVILLE ST.

  
  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 

| New Method

Watch $]

Cleaning
Guaranteed 1 year
Main Springs, $1.00

OXFORD

mm Jewellery Store
B75 Barrington St

   
 

 

A Pleasant
Place for

A SNACK

After the Show

The

Green Lantern
409 BARRINGTON ST.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest
Restaurant”

 

by Goonie

BE ING /
TRAILED g

ALIN
aw tie ss a= |
N

a

      
    

       
  

   
  

  

: NG

 

    

a

Ccenie.
a

  
 

Prosecution Threatened—

Continued from Page One

will and Kingdom of God must take
precedence over the national convenience or policy,” that a consideration of historical causes shows that
no nation is black or white but that

“all share in responsibility for cre
ating the situation which makes
war inevitable,” prompts the protest
against the war.

The ministers,
speaking as an independent group,
find themselves, “not without pain

 

Orchestra

 

TONIGHT!

© It’s Dalhousie Night
@ Jimmy Sadler

October 27, 1939

and regret, unable to approve of
this war,’ and profess their readiness to “share the burden of sacrifice” in ways as difficult and dangerous but not directly contributory
to the war effort..

Dr. Roberts, asked concerning the
manifesto by members of his class
on Wednesday, told’ them he would
not speak concerning it except to a
private group, where he could talk
as an individual, and not a member
of the faculty.

and his Nova Scotia

Dance Tonight, Saturday Night and
Special Hallowee’n Dance Tuesday Night

MASONIC HALL

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

 

 

Uh 5525 sailed t' ward the sirens, wondrous

 

fair and beguiling.

He "soe his pipe with Picobac and passed temptation smiling.

@ This version cannot be verified. But any student, by pleasurable research, can verify the
fact that Picobac gives wonderful satisfaction

at a remarkably low

It’s the pick of

price.

Canada’s Burley crop and always a mild, cool,
sweet smoke — a far more agreeable bar
against distraction than Ulysses’ trick of stop
ping the ears!

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH «. 15¢

1%-LB.
also packed in Pocket Tins

cobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

Pi

  

“LOK-TOP" TIN - 60¢

   

        
 
  

Weilsun’s

THE BEST MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and

Purpose.

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST, HALIFAX, N., S.

 

 

 
