  

   
   
   
      
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  

 

 

 

    

 

FT COULD HAPPEN HERE
_ The new Brock Memorial Union Building, which was reTER lle at the University of British Columbia, will stanc
as a perpetual reminder to the universities of this country ol
- what can be achieved by student effort. It climaxed a deter.
mined drive by the students on the west coast to create for
themselves the privileges and enjoyment of university institu.
tions that would otherwise have been denied them. — :
_- In 1914, Point Grey, on which the present university stands.
was nothing but a pile of derelict stumps, huge rocks and sand
dunes. The transition that occurred during the next twentyfive years was almost incredible. Under the pressure of ae
dents and other interested people the government was prevaile
‘upon to advance one and a half million dollars to set things
going. Work that was suspended during the first Great War
> was recommenced in earnest in the early twenties and today
the campus of the University of British Columbia is among
Ma the finest in Canada. Here is their imposing record: in 1929
on a gymnasium costing $40,000; in the same year stadium
grounds amounting to $19,000; and in 1939 a stadium made of
 conerete and seating five thousand people, costing $40,000. To
a cap this amazing accomplishment the building which you see
in the next column was erected at the cost of $80,000.
A bey The point to be emphasized, however, is that the students
themselves have made the university what it is. The motto of
the university, “Tuum est”. or “It is up to you”, has been
| of the spirit with which they tackled their problems.
‘Mater Society of the university provided the driving
which finally resulted in the accumulation of sufficient
is for the erection of these buildings. Although alumni, inbusiness men and the government all played a part in
ieveme possible, in the last analysis it was
ch carried the plan t
2: e in ¢ } a} ay

 
    
  
  

is

     
  
 

LA

an
eS
eed ye

/
i
Si

   
 

te . the vision and initiative of an interBere cilling to make sacrifices for the
f their Alma Mater. Be 1

Of what significance is this achievement to Dalhousie? It
precisely this. If there is one thing that this university
needs more than any other, it is the common meeting place and
neral recreational centre which would be supplied by a
tudents’ union building. Of course such a building would not
lave to be on the rather ambitious lines of that just discussed,
_ but even a much more modest attempt than that made on the
west coast would supply a vital need for Dalhousie. It is the
_ great misfortune of this university to be divided into two
puses, which makes it rather difficult for people to get to

 
  
 
 
     
  
   
     
    
   
      
    
  

th the ac ual se up ees
E itself, suffice it to say that it

 

os
Hh e

om Fo

  

 
    
  
     
   
    
    
  
   
 
   
    
   
  
   
      
  
 
  
   
       
    
   
   
   
 

mi

Name we shall term “college spirit”. Now that the second

‘

Great War has restricted to some extent the activities of the
ks - Campaign Fund and the immediate prospect of a residence
becomes more and more remote, it is essential that something
' along the lines of a students’ union building be undertaken.
Pi. Such a building could provide a common eating place (perhaps
run on the cafeteria style), a billiard room, reading rooms with
opportunity for smoking, and space for the various student
_ organizations and clubs, in general a social and recreational
centre where Dalhousians could meet and talk, and generally
develop an esprit de corps that has been conspicuous by its
absence around this university. Me .
__- Impossible you will say! But this idea is something more
_ than the stuff that dreams are made on. It must be remem bered that the proposed building will not be an elaborate affair
_ like Hart House at Toronto or even like the new Brock Memorial
(though we might hold this up as a tangible example of what
_ student effort can achieve). The Dalhousie effort would be a

- much more modest attempt, but that should not blind us to
the feasibility of the project or the vital need which it would
fill. Practically every university in Canada of the size of Dali}  housie has a union building of some sort in which debates and

_ addresses can be held and the social activities of the students
1 can take place. The gymnasium is already overtaxed in an
effort to give adequate representation to different student or
ee

ais

7


ganizations and in some ways is not suitable for many activities.
_ Special addresses and student forums are held either in the
gymnasium, which is not primarily suited for this purpose, or
_ in class rooms which do not do them justice.
‘The case for some central meeting place is a strong one.
n abortive effort was made two years ago to begin operations on such a project. With the example of U.B.C. before
us, why should we fail in a much. more modest attempt
where they have succeeded? Professor Douglas has already
_ drawn up plans for the execution of such a project and they
will be published in the next issue of the Gazette with an
_ approximate estimate of the cost. Once the need is estabshed only one thing more is needed and that is student suport. Without it the drive would come to naught. With it
ere is nothing to prevent a students’ union building to come
_being on this campus. There are great problems to be
inted, to be sure. But others have solved them, why

i

a. Pk.
7

    
     
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
   

a + rz
Lee

 

 

    

ed; Sadie Looms —

  
 
 

_ know each other. Specialized activities, lack of a residence and
absence of a common meeting place are all factors which make
for apathy and disintegration in what for want of a better!

re aS
ere

BY THE SEA”

hes

a

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 16, 1940

ellbinders Picked to Meet

en —-—

 
     
 

Portenteous

hort Sto

  
    
 

It looks as though the “Dear S

| ry Contest

Girls” were tired of waiting for the D dij Set

;men to come across. At any rate, CA ime «

-at a meeting held on Thursday noon, The short story contest. that is
ithe Delta Gamma Society decided to being conducted by the New Adstage a “Sadie Hawkins Dance”, on yance and which was given some

or near March 1st. The party is to

be conducted in geod old Dogpatch
Style, the girls to invite the men,
call for them, and generally, do the
honours. Dogpatch costumes will be

ee order of the day; in fact we!

publicity in this paper a month or

of February. Three prizes of $25,
$15 and $10 will be given for the
best stories.

Competition has heen keen to date
and it is anticipated that the judge
will have difficulty in picking the

|understand that an appropriate prize
will be given for the “best Dogpatch

| couple.” 'winners. There is still time to bring
Now girls, here’s your chance! fame and satisfaction to yourself
Tickets will be available

soon, | and your Alma Mater by sending in
Watch the notice boards for further | your contribution. Don’t delay. Your

plans. ‘effort may be the one to succeed.

 

 

LEADER OF MODERATE
RADICALS KIDNAPPED

®

er ee

Dr. Bready
Expounds British

Democracy

 

 

Escapes Abductors
In Nick of Time.

 

Reginald Stubbs, eloquent leader

 

dents in Room 3 (Arts) yesterday,| ng’s College, last: Saturday nig
Dr. Bready, author, lecturer, and|©S°@Ped by the skin of his teeth
one-time classmate of Dr, McKay.| ftom the clutches of his political op
set out to “touch your imaginations| P°ments, who had deposited him for | kins night d

rather than your notebooks” and|S@fe keeping in the Phi Beta Kappa |
filled an hour with a very stimulat- fraternity house. Three short hours
ing discourse. Dr. Bready began his before parliament opened, the ringanswer to the question, “What is| leaders of the Confucius party (who
British Democracy?” by challenging | £°r prudence sake shall be namethe “all too latent assumption that less) perpetrated their coup d'etat
modern universities have arrived via | 24 abducted the helpless Herr Stubthe Rights of Man proclaimed by blestein, who had wandered from
the French Revolution”. his own stamping ground into en
These principles were given life | emy territory. Trussed up on a chair |
decades before Rousseau and Vol- ea guarded by two stalwart ( *)|
taire, through the evangelical ac- on eerrale yriumph wag. antics
tivity of John ‘Wesley in England, | pated by the Confucists. It was not |
he said, and they were established | t® be- Under the seductive and heart-|
on a spiritual basis.

|rending pleas of the great leader, |
The speaker described graphically

the verdant turnkeys loosened his

how, at a time when English society, | bonds. In a flash he made good his

despite its intellectual veneer, was|©S¢@Pe, making a dramatic entrance

politically and ecclesiastically cor-|#t the zero hour and covering his
(Continued on Page Three)

opponents with confusion.

  
 

 

 

BROCK MEMORIAL UNION BUILDING ATU. B. C.

KIRKPATRICK AND NICHOLSON
ARE HONORED BY

a ae

 

so ago, Will be concluded by the end,

|
Speaking to a ene group of stu- of the Moderate Radical party at |
ht} who will be h

  

No, 15

——_-—___—
Cee

ee

Acadi

| GAUDET AND
AMIRO CHOSEN

 

———

 

Se

' By DON BLACK

| At debating trials presided over

| by President Frank Coreoran of

| Sodales, W. Gaudet and D, Amiro

| were chosen to represent Dalhousie

| In a debate with Acadia on March 1,
Only three of the gathering that
attended the trials in the Arts
Building on Tuesday tried out. The
other candidate was Ed Weir.

The subject was Resolved: that

| the widespread establishment of

;

Consumers Co-operatives in Nova

Scotia, comparable in extent and
volume of
which exists

business with that
in Great Britain,
would be beneficial to the people
of this province. In the March
debate Dal take
firmative,

!

is to the af
Mr. Weir was the first to speak
in the trials. He gave a hesitant
and brief account of the cooperative
movement in England and the ad| vantages and disadvantages that the
'scheme would have if applied to
Nova Scotia. Mr. Weir also seemed
to have some trouble in expressing
his points as he “had none to argué
' against”,

The next speaker, Gaudet,
launched into a very thorough discussion of the movement as a whole
| giving a very detailed history of the

| whole movement but put specific
| ——- emphasis on the Scandanavian ad
 

a
AVE,

COUNCIL

Gold “D’s” for services of special | Vances in the application _ of the
) pie r+. | P¥inciples to their problems. He
|merit were awarded to Shirley. Kirk- r
also stressed that the x» ovement
sates ale z Jota Teh on 7.55 x =
patrick and Pete Nicholson would be easy to set up. While

Sunday’s Council Meeting following |

| Speaking mostly to the window and

recommendation M: the great outdoors, Mr

} Lanlw
by the aicoim

Gaudet’s

Honour Award Committee. Shirley’s| oratory held the attention of the
invaluable presence about the cam-| small audience present.

pus’ and Peter’s efforts on such| Amiro Best
occasions as Munroe Day and the) Delmar Amiro criticised te some

Caledonia Football game went to
make these two the obvious choice |

of the committee.

extent Mr. Gaudet’s interpretation
of the English movement and told

of the rise of the smal] coopera
: “4 ‘ ; ; »| tives. He also stressed the x .
fen Councillor’s and some half . == a lso stressed the need for

. e Ss ¢ is a . ¢ li =f :

dozen students plodded through Sun-| *¢ establishment of small coopera

tives and then enlar
: (Continued

day’s slosh to attend to their adand Roberts were gratified to hear
and Roberts were gratified to here |

. 5 % e _* . K Pit. } j )
a motion passed allotting hfty-five | Cc S. A. RECAST
| dollars for the rejuvenation of the |
| old Glee Club Piano, thus guarantee- | Ay
|ing a second piano for Munro Day | :
| and approaching functions. Henry | Until Amalgamation
| ORS 5 stesso poured SHDROES etc Ata meeting in Room 3 on Tues| giving a constitutional basis to N.F. . :
) |day night, to which representatives
|C.U.S. on the campus was turned ; ;
) : 3 of interest groups and all other
over to a committee and greatest of ‘ Ws
| : : 2 students were invited, the by now
all Sadie Hawkins was given the | :
! . hotorious local C.S.A. group elected
| once over and the go ahead sign. : ;
|@ new slate of officers, discussed a
‘program including curriculum re|Search, study groups of Canadian
Inez Smith and Joan Blackwood,| Unity, and student co-operative resi
eading up the Co-ed|dences, and unanimously decided to
issue of the Gazette on Feb. 29th, | “continue locally as the C.S.A. until
are hoping to arrange a Sadie Haw-| Such time as amalgamation with the

ance, with a_small| N.F.C-U.S. can take place.”

portion from the council money bags| It was pointed out that the Council
available for financial support of the|0f the Students had expressed no
“We want fellas” affair. | objection to continuation of the acti|vities of the local group and the
opinion was expressed that until the
N.F.C.U.S. took some action in the

the whole

ging
from page three)

 

 

To Continue Locally

 

Co-ed Gazette Mooted

 

 

Nominations for President and
Vice-President of the new council

 

will be made at next Sunday’s direction of amalgamation, the promeeting. ; gram of the Canadian Student As, Sembly offered most help on student
| problems.
, < A new executive was then elected.
Congratulations! Chairman—Lloyd Dalton

Vice-Chairman—Alee MacIntosh
Secretary—John Grant
Treasurer—Alfred Poirier

To Joan Blackwood, who has
added to her laurels the highest |
honor a Dalhousie Student can win, | Members-at-large — Otto Antoft,
viz: The Malcolm Honour Award, | Ian Robb.

The Gazette staff on ,behalf of} It was announced that George
the students, extends enthusiastic Barratt will speak to the students
felicitations. Tuesday evening on Student Co-ops.

 
    
 
 
   
 
 

   

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.
America Sir:

C.S. A. LETTER

Dom. Bureau of Statistics,

 
 

    

         
    
      
   

 

        
       
          
     
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
 
   
  
   
    
     
 
 
   
 
  
 
 

  
  

 
   
 
  

  
  

 
  

  
 
   
  
   

    
  
   
 

damentals and the sincerity of purpose on the part of those responsible for shaping its program.

via a somewhat lousy translation, in “The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

1922. This fact, and an altogether
misleading title, are sufficient to ac
| count for the label ‘defeatism’, which
a result of your altogether commen
has since served generally both to dable attempt to make the Student

ize the book and to identif
oor ct cea He 4 eee Assembly a thoroughly. representa- MACLEOD, B ALCOM, LIMITED '

curious epithet to apply to a work tive forum. As is usually the case

z d * S .
conceived, and largely written, be- _ ~s auch PSR entre _ peHove DRUGGISTS
it is so, in the Legislative Assem
Phe: seceus eritivicm inn 8 SUpHOse, | ae ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee

no 2) —— “MACDONALD Now that our newspapers have Ottawa, Jan. 29, 1940. |
a vars “Editor: JOHN WINDEBANK - - = = B-4538 succeeded in unearthing so many|p, Grant H. Lathe ,
tee oy Poon ore 2 See Be unseasonable rascals among the liv-| nat gee CSA.
Sports Editor: D. CAMERON _ - wit ia re Rye EOOOS ‘ene ie paces haere
Assistant Sports Editor: FOUN WHYTE ing, it seems rather a waste of time, 775 Sherbrooke St. West
Feature Editor: BOB LAND - = 7 Bas does it not, to be still plucking at the
Bee eta Literary Editor: GENEVIEVE MacMAHON - - B-9746 ? Montreal.
sss Assistant Literary Editor: AINSLEY EMBREE beards of the dead. I refer to your
-———s«&Exchange Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD - - -_ B-9746 fats Dear Dr. Lathe:
Cee mee aoa U. P. Editor: JACK MATTHEWS editorial on Spengler. Th h ‘D K
Business Manager: INEZ SMITH - = B-1049 Among our native school histor- ete eee ae
capmy? gee: Business Manager: KEN ARCHIBALD — - = B-302) ‘ : ported in the press came as a distaff Photographer: BILL TIDMARSH ians, the name of Spengler, like that | ©, ;
_ ‘Proof Editor; ROWENA BENSON oe = B97 of Karl Barth among our school tinct shock to me. I did not attend
en theologians, and Freud among our oe Mare Tees me ig
school psychologists, is uttered with cP 0 ‘ ee ee ay your ae ve
a sort of uneasy intonation. They are Ee ; oo ey Be Pos ics co fae “You're the toast of all the regiment. ay
doubtless being profoundly consider-| *°*"° ee a fe ee “That ”
ad. Shere me bes <iadas be Spring, as well as contacts with That's because | send the boys Sweet Caps
them, but, you know leaders over a longer period, have 7 |
Ss os 1 he thistia Bae ae a given me no grounds whatever for
English ae a least ‘ ak Cees eel ane ran, epaconts
5 ’ ? Assembly. To the contrary, I have
unfortunate history. The Decline of been impressed by the grasp of fun- SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES |

 

fore the outbreak of the General blies of the Provinces and in the

War en ce . che at (Commune tinerity eronps Headquarters for Students’ Requirements
a gees a | or reform groups were probably

as more vocal than the representatives Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.
Nor does the theory, in itself, con-| 5¢ more generally-accepted views.

tain any more of pessimism than} | notice Dean Krug, in admitting
any other theory, in any other) tnat he has no proof of subversive
braneh of learning. The state of| .jaments directing the Assembly,
mind, pessimistic or optimistic, or says: “In-many of these things I
what you will, produced by the| may be mistaken, and I may be do- Ask For
vulgarization of a thesis, is a commentary, not on the thesis itself, but
on the susceptibilities of those who
thus become acquainted with it. It
would be equaily just to condemn as
pessimistic a biological treatise on
the butterfly, considered as the concluding stage in the development of
an organism, on the ground that

| West first appeared in English,

ing certain people grave injustice by

so expressing my suspicions.” FARMERS’ ICELAND BARS

There is no doubt in my mind

that he has done “certain people A DELICIOUS REFRESHMENT
grave injustice”. It will take time
and effort “to live down” the repu- ‘6 : $9
tation he has given you. By the Taste the Difference
time he acquires the years and experience that are usually the equip
some fair reader is moved to tears| 4+ of a. university dean; his FARMERS’ LIMITED

by the reflection that this frail and impulses will probably be more

i beautiful creature is soon to fade restrained by the thought of the
height, spare, bearing across his forehead the scar of an away. slowness with which truth catches HALIF AX, N.S.

es: farm-cart, Lord Tweedsmuir was a Scotsman) Further misunderstanding seems up with error. I know these are
” Born in. the fall of 1875, his father was the Rev. to have arisen from the fact that/ times in which tolerance is less of a
. Bur . Free e Church minister. John Buchan was born | Spengler has written in two charac-| yirtue than ordinarily, but as a pro| d spent t his” early life there in the Seottish border country. ters,—ag,a student of history, and| fessor of philosophy, which is to say
y was not able to endow him richly with material goods,|/as a political +pamphleteer. : of wisdom”, he might have

 

 

 

 

 

r d intellectual capacity and the genius for hard work won him| surely it is not good criticism to|peen expected, I think, to take no
ro. 1es which put him through Glasgow University, and later Oxford challenge the validity of an idea on chance of compromising truth by the
_ where he won distinction in English literature. His first ambition was for! the ground that its author, or others,| expression of casual suspicion , .
, > 3
“the Bar, and i in 19Q1 he was admitted to the Middle Temple. | have made this or that use of it. Yours sincerely BLAKELEY S Winter Sports
‘ Then war changed the whole course of his career. ‘In this connection you have been JOHN F ROBBINS ‘
The South African conflict broke out, and duty called John Buchan | guilty of what may seem to be, per- Good Appetites
for administrative duties in the ‘annexed Boer country. The future| haps, under the circumstances, a for Lunches
Governor-General has often recalled there his experiences as a trooper in| pardonable anachronism. Spengler|manitarianism and sadism, Spengler j C ion
has effected, by intention, in the Dinner
European and particularly in the
The |
Green Lantern

the Rand Mounted Rifles. in his conception of history has idenGerman consciousness, a diminution and Confectionery
for good feods
|
|
|

: fame as an author. He saw active service during part of the war years,| err Goebbels, under the clear, dry
 * and was finally promoted to director of information under the Prime] jicht of the hugger-mugger of these
Minister. His “History of the Great War” remains a standard production |»ast few months, and with the|cresence of the other. Now it is one &
as a souree for War-time history. wizardry peculiar to editors and|of the cardinal points of Spengler’s
In 1927, the now renowned historian and novelist was a member of| statesmen, have caused him to have) thesis that these two states of mind
the British House of Commons, and in 1934 was Lord High Commissioner | jqentified culture with race. om evolved simultaneously as symp- tcin ;
to the Church of Scotland. Which brings us to the main point | toms of the decline of human socie-||} oin Your Classmates!

ay In 1935, following the retirement of the Earl of Bessborough, John) .- your editorial, this business of| ties, that they are in fact, hictort. 43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
| __ Buchan was nominated his successor as Governor-General of Canada.) anitarianism’ and ‘barbarism’.| cally identical; and that they are :
; Before he took office, the King elevated him to the peerage. He became|,,_ passages seem to ber elevant: evolved as a consequence of the disrk 8 Baron Tweedsmuir of Elsfield. integration within the society of
; During his stay in Canada from Novmber 1935, the Governor-General| The worst feature of this sage of | personalties which, when the eultare

1 took pains to make himself acquainted with Canadian life and Canadian barbarism is that its defeatism justi-| ... integral, had themselves been
5 fies the renunciation of humanitarian ; ’

Subsequent years, and the Great War established John Buchan’s | tified race with culture: you, sir, and
of the one and a corresponding in407-409 Barrington St.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest
Restaurant”

 

   
    
     
   
   
    
        
 
       
       
     
  
    

 
  
 

ad _ people. Less than three months after his arrival in Canada, in mid- principles end provides ‘tlie intellec- | itegral. The representative of maat winter, he visited mining areas in Northern Ontario and Quebec, and in tual weapons for the rise. of a/|ture and living culture takes himself } i ‘
‘ bh eke. OST journeyed by aeroplane to the far North, making his acquaintance | gangster-dictator. and his circumstances for granted, Balhousie niu f ratiy
; Be he with the Eskimo settlement at the mouth of the Mackenzie and Copper- Now that the decay of Western|and makes the most of them. Aw the
en mine rivers. culture has set in, nothing matters| culture loses its formal unity, the } Halifax, Nova Scotia.
ge Author, soldier, administrator, John Buchan—the late Lord Tweeds-|}any more and morals and humani-/emotional-rational unity of the per|. -muir—lived, like a hero of one of his own romance, a vigorous, varied oe cor ie. ae have the | S08 is also destroyed, the person is Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
| fife. His writings included laboriously compiled histories and ingenious |'* oriously accumulated Over We! 3. «4.4 against itself. and becomes Includes all tha principal Faculties-of a Uni
| ta ; ; By ks . : centuries are relegated to the limbo divid & , L p versity.
| detective fiction which he wrote as a “recreation.” His work included| ,- forgotten things. capable at the same time of the argest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.
| ____aetive soldiering, administrating, and as Governor-General, the intricate : ‘utmost tenderness and the utmost

‘ __-—s- functions of Vice-Royalty—all of which he performed in the tradition of | Here you seem to be suggesting that | orasity. Arts and Science Faculty

his Scottish ancestors “of the border breed.” _\of these two social phenomena, hu- Continued on Page Three _

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Se. a

Courses preparatory je Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

GRAPHIC iat BY GOONIE

JUST MY HEIGHT -----] | st. maRosS DROP
z BONER a FAST DAL: 4-1

 

‘THE GRAPEVINE

      
 
 

    
 
 
  

     
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
    

  

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

  

»+«T WONDER HOW
THEY WORKED |
THAT EXPLOSION on. | |
HITLER 2

- _—

        
    

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;
in the B.Se. course about $190.00 a year.

  
  
 
  
  

 

Residence

  

Be LAWERS
(Nock
PARLIAMENT

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 

   
     

i East. " a br

o }
fe ae
Mason ge bree hatte
  

   

i ” wound. On February 28 and
4, at the invitation of McMaster
Ur iversity, the dramatic young
rt of five universities, includr y mine host, will vie for Thespian
ee 8, ae Ontario

    
    
 

 

*
Plays, Piss Plays

wae pivaitecs hasn’t reported to headBe Sistas yet, and McMaster seems

    
  

 

f about their own play, but the other
' e three participating universities have
he) everything in readiness. From
Lee QUA.6, we learn that the Aggies are
presenting Shaw’s one-actor, Our
_ Lady of the Sonnets. And dramatic
} a ee John Black adds the gra-_ tuitous information that they have
just finished a successful production
ay ie Pride and Prejudice, and are soon
launching into The Pirates of Pen
   

. Ty tan
: i

    
   
    
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
  

_ sockers and hewbiattcy are prepared
: to launch forth on O’Neill’s The
Rope, which deals, not with cigars,
but with a farmer family in the

ie ‘ Es invade Hamilton with a “fantastic
comedy” about Spain entitled The
Devil Comes to Alcatraz. The plot
centres around the maidens who go

    
   
 
 
 
  
 

e
’ ee xP

i elcaipued anyae oh, and boys and
ling else. that smacks

a flee 4.

 
  
 
 
 
  
  

ac are aisition and we are very happy.

lee i ‘ebruary 1940 is significant because
ie dig the ground-hog came out on the
eas ae ees = a wets back.

alls?

' Song opinion, has conducted a
an survey on the recent ruling that the
_ formal dance be formal for the
oi women, and dress optional for the
men. One co-educational  suffra
_ make up their minds.” While the
others carry on with the sage wis_ dom ‘that there is class distinction

_ in soup and fish; the rich wear tails
__ and drive around in limousines while
_ the poor stay home because they

    
 
  
   
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
   
    
  
  

 
 
  

Bed “pe ve neither the clothes nor the
oe Sih ousines, It’s the system! Geni a: erally speaking, however, everybody

- thought that “dress optional” is no
z aie fun at all. It should either be
¥ ph uN formal or informal. What do you
think? (As if I cared.)
Feo | ey: 24
e3 hl From Manitoba
x i Cte non the Winnipeg campus, they are
oe. agog over various things. In
Shas first place, the University SymPhony Orchestra which made its
| ‘pre ere bow recently, is quite a
howling success. The staff of The

over the Winnipeg Tribune for one

2p orters will have a chance to vie

oe ed each week to the writers of
the best news stories. To top it al
off, _ their “Aunt Arctic Ball”, th:
jual winter social affair, is jus
) a eee its way

  

   
  
 
    
    

   
   

-zance. At U. of T., the campus)

 

 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

" gette insisted, “I wish they would

»

By BETTY SANDALL

The idea of cooperative student

residences originated at Toronto,
| where it has been carried out suc| cessfully for almost four years.
| U.B.C., McGill and Queens there are

At

also cooperative residences.

At Toronto the four students who
founded the first cooperative house
| spent most of the summer looking at
‘| houses and furniture, and putting in
many hours of study on the running
of a cooperative residence. They
finally rented a partially furnished
house, and supplemented the furnishings with purchases in second
hand stores.

Twelve students lived there the
first year. Each member does four
hours work a week. The only paid
help is the cook. The schedule of
work and the running of the house
is carried out by an executive elected
by the members. There is a general
manager, a bookkeeper, kitchen
manager, social director and educational committee. Managers hold
their positions for a half year, so
that most of the members benefit by
managerial expereince.

The charges are $6.00 a week for
room and board. In the first year
the dividend was 10%, and it has
increased each year, until in the 4th
year it is 17%. Some of the money
was put into the reserve fund, and
after paying depreciation on equipment, the reserve amounted to $500,
which went to equip a second house
this year. In the new house sleeping
accommodation only is provided, and
all the members eat in the original
house.

This year U-.B.C. is enjoying its
first cooperative residence. They
have followed a slightly different
plan. Instead of having a paid cook,
there is a Japanese student who lives
in the house and does all the cooking

in exchange for free room and board.

There are thirteen boys living in the
ten-room house which they have
rented, and each does his share of
‘the housework. There is a study

rked grey on the ae which discusses

at a UBC. ‘die Vege hive: ilind
"| that they can live cooperatively for
lly ne $20.00 a month, whereas pri
vate board runs from $28.00 to
$35.00. They feel that the cooperative residence has been very successful, and they plan to open more next
year.

It would seem that there is
need for something of this sort at
Dalhousie, where there is no men’s
residence, and where so many boys
get their meals in restaurants, a
very expensive way of living. The
chief things to consider, when
establishing a cooperative residence are that you get men who
are willing to pull their weight in
the work that is to be done, and
that you organize on a businesslike basis.

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of all
members of Class ’41 in Room 3,
Arts Building, at 12 noon next Tuesday,to have a class picture taken for
the Year Book. Other business to
be discussed also. All Juniors who
wish to be in the class picture be
present Tuesday noon.

SS a et ES Se = Se ee

Shoeshine Boy

The shoeshine boy at Hart House,
University of Toronto, is an artist
by choice, a shoeshine boy by necessity. When the men of the campus
are not anxious for footwear simonizing, he draws a canvas from under
the polish throne and sketches a
landscape or dashes off a hunk of
cubistics. Every now and again,
a connoisseur will chance across a
good item, and Stan the shoeshiner
sets paid for something else besides
‘shinin’ shoes all day”. But as a
genera} rule, he draws and paints

for fun.~ His latest commission is

‘he sketching of a Roman portrait
‘or the local production of Timon
f£ Athens. This is his second atempt at portraying the human
gure. The first is a red-headed
vench, done in cubes, and known

intimately as Cockeyed Liz.

  

 

ae ” RESIDENCES AT DAL) o.
Glee Club Point

 

Awards List

LE ATCOIDAIG 6. ca sie 1
2. Geoffrey Bagnall ......... 4
ae eS a ee 1
4. Earnest Barrett .......... 1
ie ESO ORE. View amieaates vias 4
6. Louise Bishop ............ 1
Re OCA RAE 4h a's wAlivereke aes 1
8. Joan Blackwood .......... 21*
9. Christine Cameron ....... 1
19. John Chapel .....00052 25. 2
11. Daphne Christie ......... 3
£2.) Daphne: Clarkes. . 6. vio es 2
Bas GOP CIPRNOND ia poiemwads acs 13
14. Robert Edwards .......... 21*
15. Ainslee Embree .......... 1
16. Frank Fennel ......:..... 1
17. Jack, Perguson 5.6. 6 Sie) 2
18. Adelaide Fleming ......... 2
19. David Guildford ......... 10
20. Dorothy Graham ......... 3
22; William. Harvey ........+5- 6
22. Katherine Hicks .......... 6
23. Gordon Hiseler .......... 32*
24. Andrew Holmes .......... 1
25. Mary Johnson ............ 1
26. Cyril Kempston .......... 2
27. Gordon Kinley ............ 7
28. Shirley Kirkpatrick ....... 24*
29. Donald Kirkpatrick ....... 4
30. Vadim Koretsky .......... 2
31. Helen Lawson ............ 1
32. Beth Littlejohn .......... 1
33. Graham MacDougal ....... 18
34. Marjorie Mackenzie ....... 1
35. Dorothy MacDonald ....... 1
36. Mary MacKeegan......... 1
37. Isobel MacKeen .......... 1
88. Vernon MacQuarrie ....... 3
39. Lorna MacLeod .......... 3
40s" A PERCINCOBR ic eck ood 2
41. Margaret MacAskill ...... 3
42. Ethyl Mackenzie .......... 1
43. Stanley MacQueen ....... 1
44. Prudence McKim ......... 1
45. Mary Marsh os) tit swe hes 3
46. Edna Menger ..........+. 3
47. Bill Mead ....... pleas: 2
48. Audrey Miles ............ 1
BG; JOAN “MOOR ho 6 ies kad 2
50. Yvonne Mounsey ......... 2
51. Robert Musset ........... 2
62. Audrey Nightingale ...... 1
58. Frances Patchell ......... 3
AB oo 2 3 «ee 1
55. John Reynolds ........... 23*
66. Carmen Riggs <..7....... 1
57. Norma Roberts .......... 1
58. Charles Roberts .........- 27"
59. Katherine Robinson ...... 1
GO. Carel Salton ees bese cna as 1
61. Barbara Schwartz ........ 1
G2. Jon: SMrey iis. ve ees 4
GB. Harry Smiths oe bs oe oa 1
64. Robert Swansburg ........ 1
65. John Woodbury .......... 12
66. Gordon Waugh ........... 2

*These students will be awarded
their Gold “D’s” on Munroe Day.

 

_DALHOUSIE GAZETTE _

ne x ’ ae he 1 %t is ,# u ae * vs a hy ¥ ¥ . : ' r : oy
ba \ f , a b a8
peo

EDITOR’S MAIL—
(Continued from page 2)

Spengler’s work is neither a
‘Saga of barbarism’ nor a gospel of
humanitarianism, but implicitly condemns both as being simply opposite
faces of the same medal. If this
his conclusion should seem parodoxical, consider, for example, in the
last century, the wave of ‘humanitarianism’ which swept over the
United States and succeeded in its
barbarous object of reducing the
Negroes from their relatively secure
and useful position as a social caste
to that of a savagely persecuted
minority, a proletariat within a proletariat; or, in the moribund Hellenic
society, the development, side by
side, and by the same social class,
of ‘urbanity’ and the Circus; or, in
the declining Iranic society, the entertainment, in the same cult, of the
love and humity of the Sermon on
the Mount and the hate and fury of
the Apocalypse.

Morals, then, consciously considered, and humanitarian ideals, have
not been ‘laboriously accumulated
over the course of centuries’ but are
quite modern inventions, in any society; they are evolved, along with
metropolitanism and inorganic mass
thinking of every kind, only after
feeling has gained the ascendary
over action; and, in our culture, they
have their historical corollary in
Jew-baiting at Munich, Hindu-baiting at Lahore, or red- pate at
Toronto.

Spengler’s philosophy of history is
not, as you seem to imply, in any
sense a revolutionary one; it is new
only in the schools, where, as a rule,
it is not consistent with good form,
or with the policies of one’s patrons,
to be too intimately acquainted with
living thought. The leading historians of Greece, of the Muslim world,
and of the West, have without exception shown themselves to be
aware of the organic and relative
nature of their subject; and the
doctrine of historical relativity has
not been so strikingly formulated by
Spengler himself as it had been already in the fourteenth century, by
Ibn Khaldun,—an Arabic philosopher
who, as you, sir, are no doubt aware,
was not intimately connected with
the Nazi party.

But, — waiving authorities, which
might be urged ad infinitum both for
and against,—does it not seem conceivable that the same rhythm, which
is exhibited in the flow of sap, the
beat of the heart, or the tonal subtleties of a sonata, might be manifested also in the vicissitudes of
human societies? And it is logical
to suppose that our society, simply
because it is ours, is not subject to
the same destiny as those which
have gone before it?

_ When a philosopher turns publicist,
the resulting product is likely to be
some sort of yatter; and when the
present nonsense in Europe is over,
Spengler’s later writings will take
their proper place beside the English
white papers as source material for
future students of the art of propaganda. The Decline of the West
does not fall in this category. It

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

SODALES—
Continued from Page One
system into one great one for the

country by the superimposition of an
organization as in England. Mr.
Amiro backed up his argument
throughout with concrete examples,
especially when describing how the
small cooperative can improve the
lot of the primary producer. His
talk, although somewhat weighty
was the best received by the audience. It was direct and followed
the president’s opening admonition
to keep to the subject in hand.

The judges were Professors Willis
and Findlay. Attention was drawn
to the debates all during March.
Acadia coming here on the first and
debates with St. Mary’s and U.N.B.
on successive Fridays.

Sodales Trials
To Take Place

President Frank Corcoran of the
Sodales Debating Society has announced that tryouts will be held in
the near future for one or two debating teams to represent Dalhousie
against St. Mary’s College and St.
Thomas College of Chatham, N. B.
Against the former college the subject chosen was “Resolved that this
city, namely Halifax, should adopt
the managerial system of administration.” For the clash with St.
Thomas, who have a reputedly aggressive debating team, the subject
chosen is, “Resolved that science has
merely created the illusion of progress.” President Corcoran expresses
the opinion that keener interest
should be shown in these well chosen
subjects and he would like to see a
large turnout at the trials.

Pugilists Wanted
Meet Slated For
March 14

Dalhousie boxers are quickly
rounding into shape but there are
gaps that need filling, especially in
the lighter and heavier weight
groups. The meet this year will
take place at Antigonish on the
fourteenth of March and we want
the Alma Mater to bring home the
bacon. In the last three years Dalhousie has done very well especially
the year the meet was held on this
campus when we come within a point
of taking the title. Now that hockey
has stopped, how about some contenders for the boxing crown?
SS
ought to be more widely read, if only
as an antidote to the lucubrations
of our schoolmen who talk so blithely
about the ‘science’ of history. But
it will not be properly understood,
so long as our universities take such
great care not to acquaint us with
its ancestry. On the library shelves
of one of our leading Canadian
colleges, a college large than Dalhousie-Kings, there has rested, for
forty years, a handsomely bound
edition of the works of Friederich
Nietzsche. Of the first volume, some
thirty-odd leaves have been cut.

WILF FINBOW.

:

ee rrr tet dioemenseettniooeestnemssaeesiiiemnec aie nee

Co-operative Movement in N. S.

                    

officially started in September, 1930,
and during the first year 184 study
clubs were established.. Today there
are over a thousand in eastern Nova
Seotia alone to say nothing of the
other Maritime provinces and Newfoundiand indicating the rapid
spread of the movement. There are
approximately 50,000 people in the
movement today and indications are
that the number will reach 100,000
before very long. The downtrodden
attitude of the common man has
gone — his imagination has been
aroused and he can envisage a new
order of things.

* « &

On the eastern tip of the Nova
Seotian Mainland is situated the
little town of Antigonish, home of
St. Francis Xavier University. This
university is only a small institution
with a registered enrollment of
slightly more than three hundred,
but what it lacks in size is more
than made up for in its activities.
Back as far as 25 years ago members of the St. F. X. staff were
interested in solving the problems

 

of the people, and from the begin
                           

in the realm of adult education these
solutions would be found.

The technique of the St. Francis
Xavier Movement is the mobilization
of the people for the study of their
problems. Mass meetings are held,
where the value of education and
study of the facts in the situations
confronting the people is put plainly
and forcibly before them. In this
way a state of mind that might be
termed “neutral” is obtained; it
might be characterized as humble or
scientific—the necessary unbiased attitude that is the forerunner of the
search for real truth. The people
are then organized into little groups
of five to ten members who promise
to meet regularly to discuss their
problems and consider the successes
or failures of their study. - These
groups are known as study clubs and
are supplied with material by the St.
F. X. Extension department and as
well through open shelf and travelling libraries.

This education procedure is considered by those who know it as one
of the best if not the best in the

world, The basis of the Antigonish
Movement is that education, whatever else its contributions may be,
at -least should enable men and
women to live in the widest sense of
that term.

Now it stands to reason that group
action is necessary if the common
people are to improve their economic
status in our society. Cooperation
must be the standpoint of the adult
educator if he-is to be realistic at all
Alone the farmer or worker can do
little to crash the highly organized
economic setup of our country but as
groups they can break into many
business fields and eliminate the
middlemen for whose services they
had so long paid dearly. This has
been done by the organization of
cooperative stores, credit unions,
lobster factories, fish plants, buying
clubs, cooperative housing and medicine schemes, and other cooperative
ventures,

The whole of America is watching
the experiment and we feel safe in
predicting that the Antigonish Adult
Education Movement will spread to
every part of our country.

Page Three
DR. “BREADY—

Continued from Page On«

rupt and socially unconscious. Wesley had emerged as the creator of
the spiritual values that had brought
Liberty and Democracy.

An Oxford Don, not wanted by
the intellectual nepotistic clique or
by the rich and portly bishops of
the English church, Wesley had ©
gone down among the people to lead
a life so active that Lord Baldwin,
as Prime Minister of England, had
later declared himself, compared
with Wesley, to be one of the unemployed. A life, said the speaker;
“inimitable on English soil’’.

SOCIAL REFORM

It was from the great movement
thus begun that came the impetus
which later, through followers like
Wilberforce, destroyed the slave
trade, humanized the prison system
through Howard, and through men
like Shaftesbury and Bernardo
brought about the sweeping social
reform which stands_as the explanation of why Communism has never
bitten deep in British soil.

BELABOURS PEDAGOGUES

With a dramatic manner and using interpretations at some times
romantic, Dr. Bready belaboured
modern educationalists for their
tendency to “play in an intellectual
gymnasium” and leave out important spiritual factors.

“Distrust brilliance without soul,”
he warned. The Zeitgeist of materialism, the time-spirit of which
Marx and his class hatred was born,
was said by the speaker to have held
England in its grip in Wesley’s
time. The eminent Professor Oland
had agreed with him in asserting
that Wesley had saved England
from spiritual and moral collapse.
The same values had created the
new British middle class with their
advanced conceptions of Democracy.
They were a spiritual leaven that
had changed the face of England,
had defeated Voltaire in the 16th
century and were being looked to
today to defeat Karl Marx.

Dr. McKay concluded, saying that
while differing with some of his excolleague’s generalizations, his point
that modern education too often
failed to recognize the great innerworking dynamics of history, was
well taken.

Outline of Junior
Class Achievment

Class ’41 entered Dal under the
kindly guidance of Roly Hurst, who
was then Freshman representative.
Having started its activities by giving a Freshman dance, which was a
dismal flop, the class redeemd its
reputation by giving another dance,
which turned out to be the most
successful Freshman party in years.
We did pretty well by ourselves that
first year.

The members of ’41 were the first
freshmen to come under the compulsory physical gym courses. The
gymnastics seemed to have had an
exhilarating effect, for in the class’
second year at Dalhousie an extraordinary number of its members
were on the athletic teams and in
executive positions. That banne
year was 1938-39 when George
Hagen was president, a position he
had held since the class came to
college,

This year they lost their president
and a number of other members to
the army, the navy and the airforce.
Another group of members left
class ’41 to join the graduating
class of ’40, Yet those remaining in
class ’41 are still carrying on its
traditions.

The president is Forbes Mountain,
who is on both the tennis and the
badminton teams. Rose Goodman is
vice-president and Charlie Doyle is
treasurer, Carly Sullivan, who has
been secretary since the class started, still holds down that job. Carly
is on the tennis team and the basketball team. Other notables in the
class are Shirley Kirkpatrick, who
is on the Council, and Rowena Benson, who is on the Girls’ Debating
team. _

The big business that the class
has on hand just now is the Junior
Prom. This is going to be the biggest and best one yet, so shake out
your best suit, boys, and we’ll help
you home in the morning!

 
 
  
   
 

i es eee ee Sees ees eK eG ee ge re, ee et on eee "
Reena eRe er ep mens hl Sg eae ae te gl
iM » ° Bd . Re y ‘7 ; : 7 AZ per: - . 7 * ,

rf, a. f Lo, ‘ ,, ee r ; r qu ~ Se ' 7 4 : ;

   

ior Prom-- Last Big Dance of the Year!

> © . o—- — — a aaeceaainaenieeiaes

Setter Class Will |
Entertain Grads At

~The Junior Prom

  

eee te ee

 

  
 

EVENING
CLOTHES

    

*

   

| Students are advised to procure their tickets
Dresses so soft and billowy, dresses (and Girls) early for this big date! |
with the new long torso effect. .
dancing delights for the Junior |
“Prom”. EATON’S offers a selection
of smart models—of fine rayon taf- |
fetas, sheer lacey cotton nets, and
rayon chiilens. Distinctively styled
| !

. .. gorgeously coloured . . . pleasing
      
       
 

 

 
   
 

FORMALS -- FOR THE
JUNIOR PROM

          
   
       
         
 
  
 
   

        

will be held Friday, February 23rd.

ly low priced. Each 12.95 to 39.95. |
| Send ae formal wear to Cousins
Accessories, such as gloves, hose, | | “hea for dry-cleaning or pressine.
and shoes are equally important and | You'll look better ... feel more
EATON’S feature a wide array for ||| assured... on the night of the
Me for them to select from. | | Junior “Prom”.
ates | | Telephone L-2323
ree Tuxedos come in styles to please | |
ey young men. Smartly tailored, well | |
Da a finished. Each 22.50 to 35.00. | | C OU si SIN S
) ee TE
;
} - |
#T.EATINC Bs | Spacious Lounge of the Lord Nelson Hotel where the Junior Prom |
I
'

 

THE JUNIOR PROM eee

 

 

Dalhousie’s last BIG dance of the college year, when the DON’T FORGET—
Junior class entertains the Studley graduates, is being held in
|'the Lord Nelson Hotel. next Friday evening. It’s always a

—

_ grand dance—just ask anyone who’s been there! The IEW For i uxedos and D ress Wear

‘is always the same. And this year the Junior class is sparing Visit Our Store
i no effort to make it a bigger success than ever. | :

  

| TIES TS, HOSIERY
is mo substitute for Phd petition The music will be in the best styles of Jerry Naugler and, S, SHIRTS, HOSIERY, UNDERWEAR,

BLUEB RID DIAMOND RINGS his orchestra, Nova Scotia’s number I band, for both swing and | COLLARS, Ete.—ALL NEW GOODS.
J 0 HNSON’S | Sweet. The very fact that it’s being held at the Lord Nelson |
| _ means the ultimate in service and refreshments. Soft lights, | B A SIL WINTERS i:
i | d | a
p 441 BARRINGTON ST. - - HALIFAX | sweet music, the swish of beautiful evening gowns, the contrast | ? TD
| of the black and white of tuxedoes and tails against the rainbow || Phone B-6714 383 Barrington Street

| colors of the gowns; have you ever thought how grand it
really is?

 

 

=

 

 

You couldn’t possibly miss the last big’ dance this year,

 

.
:

   

 

 

    
     
 
 
  
    
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

fan could you?—-when it’s the Junior Prom and has everything in | R ”
cal ; od ra .
ms S f Ss ‘ ‘ f Biel its favor? No, of course you couldn’t. Then we'll be seeing’ e Sure to Get a Corsage
a a ety - Jervice - Satis action you at the Lord Nelson, next Friday evening, the 23rd, at’ F or i er
x All Passengers Insured | |
on 7 Passenger Sedans | Day RUN ret) eG we
| Reflections For 1940-- It’ll mean a lot, and there’s no better place
| A small waist-line | to order is from than .
| | Demands a smart hair-line! |
F) pore meteists curls are out of date—they | | The Blossom Shop
ack the well-dressed touch of professional ||) . a amecweoedy [tty :
itvebs: You ae ee | FLOWERS FOR EVERY OCCASION—Members F.T.D.A.
— _ of only experts here. | B«
I907 232 Qui )
ae n
“Ask the girls who know” ) Q pool Road
eee eee, 2
| ee
:
Oxford Theatre Bldg. MARQUIS (Mgr.) ANNA A. MACLEAN |§| Your Favorite Musie¢
mecca : : HH :
When You Want It!
7 For i pea Proms
. Make her heart skip a beat with a a
Z CORSAGE from Rosedale Nurseries A PORTABLE VICTROLA with a few well. selected
his vecords and you are always ready to entertain your
BE tad INTING . then you'll be sure they’re FRESH friends.
pte Os : & from the Green Houses, because they’re If you now have a Radio, why not attach
sks Ca mT Th gia! grown by ROSEDALE in their f an RCA RECORD PLAYER
Special Low Prices through the Record Society Plan
DARTMOUTH NURSERIES Inquire about this at PHINNEYS Today
: We Wire Flowers Anywhere THE PHINNEY MUSIC CO. LTD.
Cee | Bonded Members F. T. D. A. | 456-460 BARRINGTON STREET
Ee Bi This i is the last year the “Year Book” will be published Just Use Either of Our Three Telephones
Eadie £ ale the present arrangement unless 250 copies are sold. Rosedale Nurseries
wy “If you want the Year Book continued, order your 1940 copy _ B-7530 B-6440 _ H-2200 | |
| Y.M.C. A. Bldg. 31 Sprin Wyse Road
a is ba iow on Inez Smith, Joan Blackwood or at Roy’s store. Barrington St. Garden Road Dartmouth | U aq Zar OOo

 

+e i} ay “: ‘ rt < - 
 

 
erto reasonably sane lads have

nly become hidden behind light,

dy hirsute growths. Let us tell
about them: first there was Reg.

a feeble attempt which came

0 an untimely (7?) end due to a
cota formal dance where such a

; he lf blown excuse for a nonentity

ii
li
:

ould have been most out of place.

E shaving due to a refractory inown hair. Muscles MacNeil has

as some hope. Mike got rid of his,
> says because it was preventing
from coming to classes — we
never thought he was so shy. Last

him

ufus last week drew numerous
nts, nearly all unfavourable,

commen
a

ces even one from the Boss of

‘ oo and Hirtle: What Winchell
aa 7: Ns ine

s% would give for a steady attraction
like that in his field. The item this

:
tS I
,

MUNRO DAY
Jacquie Cahan, Arts ’41—‘“It seems
to me that the way Munro Day is
run is—well it’s messy! Of course
I enjoy it, but it does seem to me
that it could be a little better organized.”
Miller Ballem, 2nd year Medicine
—I think the indoor hockey game
should be perpetuated — that’s a
great game—a crowd-pleaser.”

George Piercey, 2nd year Law —
“Last year’s greatest fault was lateness. I always consider the Glee!
Club Show and the dance following |
the best features of the day, and I
dislike dragging speeches. .Let us
keep to the schedule and cut out
some of the ceremonial matter that
precedes the show.”

Inez Smith, Science °41—‘‘Everybody should consider it his duty to
turn out. Attention should be paid
to making up the printed programes
as these are very important to enjoyment of the day. The entertainment requires good organization. I
feel that the items presented should
be of a finished nature, not of a
kind thrown together in a hurry and
only half rehearsed.”

Ken Archibald, Science "42 — “I
enjoy all of Munro Day very much.
However, I feel that proper organization is important: And the show
could be longer, I think—as I remember it, it’s only about fifty
minutes. That seems scarcely enough
—but it’s true that those seats are
plenty hard!”

Jim Watson, 3rd year Medicine—
“TJ think Munro Day is a very fine
institution. The two I have attended
have been run very satisfactorily

oe ey from my point: of view.”

om i-Hey, wait!

3 aoned pckedty, too.

ene think Miller should
apologize to the girl who turned up
in the class room, even if she did
arrive. a little ahead of his schedule.
aye, _ One Medical class had a gay time
last week; a combined ping-pong
a ne, snow fight and baseball innos sed ings were held during one lecture
Fix and the following day they locked
‘as their lecturer out and sang Roll Out
the Barrels for a while before giving

’ him the floor.

=

ut
i
ae

EAs ‘|

| College men, call at COLWELL’S
ent a ER Barrington Street for all your
fe jtaathing requirements.
Bi Colwell’s can fit you with the
Fee right clothes for all occasions—

_ | Classwear, Sportswear and Dress_ | wear.

| Our new stock is now complete.
es a | core. We carry a full line of
| Saitensy Clothing & Access ries.

COLWELL BROS.
“LIMITED

The English Shop

a ¥ isit Our Oyster Bar
| Fresh Oysters, served just like
_ you want them at Boutilier’s

ui _ Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

_BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

—— ee ee
=

Insist on

| Donovan’ s Beverages
b- ‘Different Flavors - 15 _

WwW. H; DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. B-6821

Me;

gta
as
‘1

f
a
Pe

[eaovin & GENTZEL
pers Patey to Students

jt!

“u

- ‘Ralph Plummer, 4th year Medicine
—*Munro Day? Oh, I don’t know;
I ain’t talkin’ see?”

I =

a

FRATERNITIES
On The CAMPUS

No. Ill |
ZETA PSI

The Zeta Psi Fraternity of North
America is a new-comer to the
Maritimes and has only recently
celebrated its first anniversary as
an active Chapter on the Dalhousie
campus. In January of last year the
Alpha Mu Chapter of Zeta Psi was
granted a Charter and representatives from New York, Toronto, Montreal and several Maritime centres
attended its installation at Dalhousie.

Zeta Psi was founded in 1847,
making it the oldest college fraternity represented on the campus.
It is one of the so-called conservative fraternities, having in all thirty
chapters in selected universities in
the United States and Canada.

By a margin of 14 years Zeta Psi
was the first fraternity to establish
itself in this country. It organized
a chapter at the University of Toronto in 1879 and, shortly after, another at McGill in 1883, Since that
time chapters have also been formed at the Universities of Manitoba,
British Columbia and Alberta, making six ‘Canadian chapters in all.
The head office of the Fraternity is
in New York City.

Among the present members on
the campus we find the scholastic average high. Otto Antoft, Ken Jones,

Macdonald and Clyde Strickland

have all participated in scholarships| the men in the Chapter have taken as members of a movement

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

“RUFUS RAYNE FROM RANGOON « »

CHAPTER XIII

Sadie Hawkins Hits Back; or She
Floats Through The Air Like
Limberger Cheese.

With the calm assurance of one
who has long been behind the scenes,
Hank Weirdone bowed three times
to the now grotesque Filthy Fifteen
in answer to a chorus of boos and
continued;:

“Just take the case of Jerry
Muskrat and Farmer Brown’s Boy.
Through kind and thoughtful deeds
for a long time Farmer Brown’s
Boy had established faith and trust
in the minds of Jerry Muskrat and

Dalhousie's «  «

who's who

all the other little people of the|

Green Forest, the Green Meadows,
and all the Smiling Pool. They had
learned to regard him as a true
friend. Then along had come a
stranger who also pretended to be a
friend. Day after day he brought
dainties for Jerry Muskrat until
Jerry regarded him just as he did
Farmer Brown’s Boy and wasn’t the
least bit suspicious.

The the stranger had set traps
and Jerry had been caught by the
tail in one of them. Now weren’t
that a low trick.”

“J didn’t set the trap,’ yelped
Fretty Barnone, as he looked for an
exit. “Who did?”

“Sadie Hawkins, did ya goop?”
roared Wierdone, shaking with a
hangover. “And that is why we
don’t want her or any other bags
on the campus.”

“A point of order, gents,” quoth
J. Windebag, putting down his knitting. “She is not a bag in the strict
sense of the word.”

“Well, shucks,” gurgled the disgruntled Wierdone. No cutie on this
campus, if any, could Bee me happy for a whole evening.”

For this crude remark he received
a terrific bash on the head with the
Malcolm Honor Award (not fit for
publication) wielded by the deft
hands on Joan Gloomytrees. As the
quivering mass of Hank Wierdone
crashed to the floor, Gloomytrees
danced on his upturned stomach and
sang: |
“You must have been a beautiful baby, but baby look at you
now,”

As this hubbub died away and
order took on an indefinite form under the misguiding voice of the
Great Goon God, Fretty Barnone,
Ignatz Smith, representing the I
Delta Slamma Society, was heard
quietly croaking:

‘We
fellah.”

“If you want a boy call Western
Union, dolt!” retorted Bug MaGoogal, and laughed unroariously at
his own daft remark. When, suddenly, the shrouded form of Prof.

wanna fellah, we wanna

du Venom leaped onto the Fifteen’s |
table, brandished two cap pistols,
|

and snarled:

“All you dirty skunks get outa
here, see.”

Fourteen of the Filthy Fifteen,
obviously terrorized, made a frantic
rush for the door under a hail of
bullets, trampling Lester, the Janitor, underfoot. For some unknown

It is very seldom that this department has the pleasure to present
a man of such outstanding academic
achievement as “Abraham” Lincoln
Fraser, otherwise known as “Stinky”
of King’s College, Dalhousie University. A brilliant scholar, a playwright, an actor, a wit which comes
in no half measures, and an accomplished musician. Line comes from
the county which is famed as a
producer of great men, namely,
Pictou. After his preliminary education at King’s Collegiate School
in Windsor and New Glasgow High
School, he came to Dalhousie in the
fall of 1986 and then has set a new
high in scholarship standards at
Dalhousie. Two years ago Line
went to the University of London
for his junior year in English, last
year he obtained a B.A. with honors
in English and this year he returns
to work for his Master of Arts
Degree.

Having completed his education he
intends to do one of two things,
either enter the Diplomatic service

lor become a professor of English,

 

reason Bug MaGoogal still sat in.

his chair.

“Well!” snapped du Venom as he’
waived his smoking gun under Bug’s
nose.

“Well,” remarked Bug, “there certainly were a lot of them, weren’t|
there ?” ;

Student Christian Movement.

|

Will du Vernon murder: Bug?. |

Will Major Catfish save Jerry
Muskrat? Will we die laughing

both of which we believe Linc is
well qualified to handle.

The driving force behind King’s
College recent smash hit “Romeo
and Juliet” was Line Fraser, who
not only wrote the words and music
to the farce, but also took a female
part in the performance.

Line has contributed some of the
finest poetry ever to appear on the
pages of the Gazette and he receives |
his inspiration for this work from
marking English 2 ???72?777¢1!!

Among other accomplishments Mr.
Fraser is noted for his ready wit

floor, for his violin and piano recitals
and for his efficient work as a
Private in the local branch of the
C.0.T.C.

Special Student

| €™

Service Sunday

On
King’s

at |
a worship

Sunday, February 18th,
College Chapel,

Things seem to be getting slack
for the Delta Gamma when they go
so far as sponsor a Sadie Hawkins
Day for March 1. It’s about time
the girls of this college shelled out.
Why was Henry Reardon so against
and Inez Smith so in favour of this
event ?

Romance hits the Jackpot ...a
female retinue of ten seeked the fair
‘Balance Sheet’ of Kings for their
Valentine ... nice going, young
fellow!

Screwball Item: Bud Macdougall
and Stu Lane searching the upper
shelves of the Law Library for book
worms! Just like a couple of kids
on a treasure hunt.

Crossman Young has succeeded in
eapturing the heart of gorgeous
Pauline after a hard chase... we
hope!

The Dal Coeds do not seem to be
following the custom of the cousins
of other Universities in sporting
white rubbers this season (for sliding on the ice.)

Overheard in Sherriff Hall:

Gummy Lawson in a plaintiff voice,
“Don’t you dare kiss me, Jack Mackenzie.” Once again on Sunday
Evening “Well E ... I was only
trying to button up your shirt.”

Two-glass Hazen has been bitten
by the love bug once again. Maybe
Miss Finnemore would advise more
wine or mercurochrome for more
successful parties and dreams.

It seems the Phi Delts had a very
unusual party the other Friday night}
not one of the lads was influenced
by the beverage so abhorrent to the
WOT.

Koretsky is having a hell of a time
reaching for the moon these bleak
days what with the Butcher-boy the
baker-boy and all the others boys
mooching around.

Flit Leighton otherwise known as
Drillon’s protege has of late been,
saying it with flowers. Orchids...
like hell.

Our eternal freshman, Mr. McKnight is chasing around after a
sophomore for a change.

Pigettes—

There’s something about the navy
— It couldn’t be just the lure of
brass buttons either, from his looks
—eh Daphne?

How has the mouse-trap been
working lately, Jean Weston? Have
you bagged any more game?

Was it an accident, or has Kissy |

Shaves - Hair Cuts - Shines
The Best of Service
Student Business a Specialty

PUBLICOVER’S

LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

Why Quality?

The pleasure derived
from a gift of fine materials, fine craftmanship, lingers long after price is forgotten.
Quality is the only
true “bargain” and
you will find quality
at Birks.

Henry Birks &
Sons Ltd.

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, -N. S.

New Method

Watch
Cleaning 1
Guaranteed 1 year }
Main Springs, $1.00
~- OXFORD

Or Jewellery Store
Ss») 575 Barrington St.

Capitol
CONTINUOUS 1 TO 11:

STARTING TODAY
@

“GONE WITH
THE WIND”

in Technicolor

Shows Start

10 a.m., 2.45 p.m., 8 p.m.
Morning and Afternoon

Not Reserved, 75c¢
(Except Loges)
Evenings, $1.10
(Except Loges)

Come in Any Time Up to 2.45
and See a Complete Show
TE, FTL IE EI TT CT
I Si aD,

Cae ES ve es 2c

been tamed?—She got in on time
Saturday night!

Three o’clock in the morning —
Bunny — Phone — Two dollars —
Tch! Tch!

service will be conducted by — the | .W!lllllIINVNIANIHINNINIRENINIANNIIIUIINUNIIINIIU IAEA IAUETAIUIID INTE NUN TINIE N UI TNEDEUEONNNETEHOM,

and sound logic on the debating

This
is the oceasion of a world day of |
| prayer for the World’s al
| Christian Federation, an organiza- |
‘tion which links Student Christian |
|Movements the world over. |
The World Student Christian Federation has laboured to maintain a

‘fellowship of Christian students in

‘all countries.

come Sadie Hawkins’ Day? Will |

. well, hell!

EOP LT I IT TI a EI

Web Macdonald is Editor of the

we .:

| gerent

Dalhousie Gazette and last fall he
played football for Dal on the first

fifteen.

_ temporarily.

Under present condi- |
tions that is not easy, for not only | ;
/does war separte students of belli- |
countries, but compulsory |
military service in some countries, |
notably France, has forced Move-|
ments practically to shut down)
Nevertheless, an at- |

Horace’ Trites plays interfaculty| tempt is being made through the |
Stuart Lane, Digby Lynch, Webster | football and basketball for Law.

Besides these activities most of' to maintain contacts.

)

Federation’s head offiee at Geneva |
It is up to us, |
less |

and prizes during their college| part in the work of one or more of | directly affected by the war, to aid|

career.

Webster Macdonald
Churchill-Smith play senior hockey
for Dal and Clyde Strickland played
on the King’s College senior team.

John MacLaren plays basketball

‘for King’s and Ken Jones and Clyde
| Strickland. ‘ese senior football on.

hi the King’s team y=; is

PRS ENR Y Kor sabiiel wi
i* i *
ie - he !

Ai

and John |

| Dalhousie’s various societies.

Since its inception the Chapter |

has had the continued support of an

enthusiastic group of

graduate |

members residing in Halifax and
vicinity. At present the Alpha Mu)

, Chapter has its headquarters at
No. 1, Westminster Apts., Morris
street.

mr iy i als mee eee.

‘in this difficult task.

ATTENTION!

Dancing will continue in the |
Lower Gym for the next two
Saturday nights beginning at 9
o’clock. Mu sic as usual will be |
supplied by the nickelodian.

aA Sy ehetar Sree ala

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS

MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KRINLEY’S DRUG STORES

MUU U URMILA LU ORL MLM AOL OOOH DAT MAOH MTVU TOTO
Ce

There’s Always a Good

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose.

Underwocd Elliett
Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST. HALIFAX, »N. S.

oe

Show at the CASINO

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK

Big Double Bill —

You'll Enjoy It!

 
  

(ita es
vi rer

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   

<3 Dal Poses Intercollegiate
Title To Saint Mary’s,

TECH BEATEN 8-4 IN SEMI-FINAL

Saturday last the intercollegiate boys showed power and
|punch to defeat Tech 8—4 and things looked good. Wednesday
ijnight things looked not so good as a close-checking, fastskating team from St. Mary’s took the measure of the Tigers,
| 4-1, in the City final.

_ Outstanding in the Dal lineup were Munro, the goalie, and
Black, who is just back from a sick spell. The other boys played
well, but this wasn’t our year. However, we have the nucleus
ofa really fine team for next season.

* * * * * sk
On Wednesday night the intercol_| legiates again met up with St.
-|Mary’s team and were eliminated

DAL GRADS WIN IN FAST GAME

In a basketball game which featured close guarding by
both squads, Dalhousie Tigers edged out Acadia 22-19 at Memorial gymnasium at Wolfville, Saturday night. Cal Seaman was
the most effective for the winners, evading the Axemen for
three nice lay up shots and three more points on fout shots.

Barr opened the scoring shortly after the whistle on a
beautiful one-hand shot from the key, but Seaman and Dunbrack put the Tigers in the lead,.and although Barr, Brannen
and Morton each scored for the Axemen again Dal led 9-8 at
the end of the first half.

Cameron and Barr again put the |
home team in the lead with two
quick scores, but the.Tigers showed
up better under the strain and

   

; Ia the Forrest secseem almost | certain

     
       
 
 
 
     
  
   
  

 

With everyone playing a bang-up
game of hockey, the intercollegiate
squad of Dalhousie pucksters pound
Dal Grads took over undisputed
first place in the City Senior Basketball league last evening when they

eT TE SN et AU ere ett ar

Tigers Nose Ou ude 99-19 |U.

N. B. Co-Eds
Hand Dal Girls
25-19 Beating

Although our hopes for the Dal
team last Friday night weren’t fully
realized, we were pleased just the
same. When we heard that U.N.B.
had beaten Acadia 41-—28, and
knowing what Acadia had done to
Dal, we were a little apprehensive
about just how the game here would
turn out, and it was with happy surprise that we saw the way Dal
played.

On the whole the game was fast,
the teams fairly evenly matched,
with both of them working well. The
only thing that slowed down the

   

 
  
  
 
  

1

: ‘ ae oe ene
i ‘ OF ines’ the city basketball leagues
Pea ae et : getting ce it seems in or
  

> our arcs ‘idea! outfit: Guards:
e ‘Smith and Ben Wilson; cen
  

      
      
       
 
   
 
 
 
    
  
      
      

from further competition as they

| bowed out, 4—1. The Dal boys tried

hard but did not have enough on the
puck for the lads from Windsor
street. Dalhousie’s only goal was
in the first part of the game and
came as John Churchill-Smith backhanded Alex Patterson’ short pass
into the meshes. A
Munro was tested first and
kicked out a pair of hard shots be
 
 

ed out an 8—4 win over the N. S.
Tech team last Saturday afternoon
at the Arena. Particularly outstanding was the work of John Churchill
Smith at center.

A
MacDonald left Dal
two men short, but Patterson was
back when Tech got their second
goal on a breakaway as Dal played +

penalty to W.

men up when shorthanded.

defeated Dalhousie Tigers 31-26 in
a closely contested game. In the
other game, W. M. C. A. came from
behind in the second period to down

game was the number of free shots
caused by fouls. At first the Dal
team seemed slightly rattled, but
they soon got control of the play.
The U.N. B. forwards were exceptionally good but were kept well in
check by the Dal guards.

By half time the score was 17-10
in favor of U.N.B., then Dal suddenly speeded up and for a while it

forged ahead.

The most exciting moment for the
fans came with about two minutes
to go, when Morton made it 19 all) Navy 34-31.
on a foul shot. But with seconds| _ k
left to play Wilson put the Halifax| _ The Grads took and early lead as

boys ahead and Seaman clinched | eect es Bauld set up several 8
the game on a breakaway. i. ays e game was somewhat

Dalhousie — Seaman 9, Dunbrack, | ee a rae at teams oa ng
, Smith 4, Wilson 4, Ideson, Mac- Boia ee Beene Cyne ete

 

   

Ritchie, Lyall, Hart: | to ote ce - ye See
Acadia—Barr 7, Brannen 3, Mor- sae : a ing Sis a, ; rah) ae
ton 3, Cameron 2, Churchill 2, Mur- el pees ‘ eee sy
hy 2, Titus, Myers, Bayne. roe Ree late ae
Pay “Apa alae ag | scored a couple of nice lay-up shots.
| At half time the Grads had a com
   
 

© ee Charlie Dunbrack; forwards:
te Seaman and “Babe Stewart.
As a second string outfit, this
corner would have MacRitchie and
oe at guards; Archie MacKen! - at center, and Doug Lyall and

   

fore play returned up the ice. Patterson and Churchill-Smith bored in
and the latter took “Pat’s” return
pass directly front to score on a low
shot. Goalie Munro made a brilliant
stop on what looked like a sure

   

Soon after Dalhousie regained full
strength Churchill-Smith got the
gate, but Tech’s raiding tactics

backfired as Patterson broke from
his own blueline, drew out the

      

 

 
   
       

 

     

looked as if our team would forge
ahead, but in the last quarter they
lagged. U.N.B. took advantage of
this and the final score was 25-19
for U.N.B. Those that played were:

Dal—J. Blackwood 6, ©. Sullivan

 

Bundy at forward positions.

e e girls make a very

n pressive showing against a strong
I U-N.B.. | team. The New Brunswick
 

‘defeated Dal 45-10) ‘a bad
ng, a nial expected an

  

 

ae Gees ‘game, | and at full
2 ee ae down.

 
 

 
 
   

upsets so f
sles 40 ae |
finals. We still
that Stewart (who has been
mfine d to his bed through ill| will hip top form against
; and Smith, and enter the
is ‘against ae Stewart

 
 

   
  
 

   
 
   

+

Dalhousie filechaitestsle hockey
m had a real return to form last
Ww < when they handed Tech a terrific 8-4 lacing. Dal, led by Chur_chill-Smith, who scored five goals,
all the way. The Tigers played
e nice defensive and offensive hockey,
ay iypiaexg “Sieve” Monro was brilliant

meade
°

 

  
  

  

 

COMMERCE A
4-0 BEATING

 

_ Engineers won their initial vic- By . _ tory of the Dalhousie Intercollegiate
Oye Hockey League last Tuesday, when
i" hi Ne handed a hard-working Commeee sextet a 4-0 defeat.
Just before the
i ite : of >the first period, Horne
ere the lone goal as he made a
nice end-to-end rush to slap the
oe past Hanson.
sie second period saw the Enneers rap home two more tallies,
aa e first by Dunham at the fivePD om nute mark and the other by Vail,
| who tallied on a rebound. Both
*j - ms eae good hockey in this
but . the Engineers defence
hard to beat.
2 third period produced the best
‘yo of the game, as the Comam carried the play to the
s in a effort to break into
ng cen: ‘Vail rored the

; ie.
\

rat

rs me Sylvester, is
: Vail; terpenes ‘Moir,

     
    
 
 
  
 
   
      
    
    

  
 
 
   
  

 

_ | Bain Munro. came out. in a dive as
ogi

    

   
  
     
    
  
     

  
         
      
      
       
            
   
    
    
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
      
    
    
  
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

| LAWYERS AND

goal and then Webby MacDonald
was given a trip to the cooler for
dumping an opposing forward. This
penalty proved costly and the Saints
scored two quick goals as ‘they
bottled up the Tigers.

When MacDonald returned Dal
again turned it on and Blois just
missed on a shot that bounced out
from off the post. Near the end of
the period Ken Beer . strengthened
the Dalhousie defence.

Long shots tested both goalies as
the second stanza got under way.

  
      
    
  
 
  

the: six. ‘minute mark West,

a, PT eatiap: St. ‘Mary’ s winger, split the

Dal defence and drew Munro out to
flip the dise into the twine for the
third rival goal.

A penalty to St. Mary’s gave Dal
an edge in power, but though they
kept the play in St. Mary’s end they |
could not break clear for dividends.
As the third period opened Dal- |

housie ganged the rival defences, |

but were repeatedly steered into the |
corners where the lost the puck. A.
penalty to Patterson left Dal short-|
handed, but they did not slow up at
all and kept St. Mary’s on the jump |
for half the period, when a break- |
away gave them their fourth ee
final marker,

Dal lineup—Goal: Munro; defence: |
MacDonald, Mitchell, Beer: forwards: Patterson, Churchill- Smith, |
Fetterly, Black, Blois, Wiswell.

 

ENGINEERS WIN
INTERFAC TILTS

Law and Engineers were the winners in interfaculty basketball games
played yesterday at the Dal gym.
In a rough game, Law handed King’s
a 21-14 defeat, while Engineers had
little difficulty in winning over the
Freshmen by a score of 39-26.

The Kingsmen
coud not evade the.close guarding of
the lawyers and had difficulty in
getting their shots away. |
_ Trites led the Law team with 14
points while Densmore had 5 for
King’s.

The Frosh-Engineers game featured much better ball, as both teams
played at a fast clip from start to
finish. The Frosh went into a short
lead shortly after the game opened,
but could not retain it, and the Engineers, led by Vail passed them at
the 10-minute mark and had a 23-9
lead at half-time.

..Law: Trites ue Hanway 3, Bird,
| O'Dea Z, MacDonald 2. Total 21.

King’s: “Nowe 2, Densmore 5,
Robie 4, Barnstead 1, Smith, Howe,
Hatfield Total 14.

Freshmen: Purves, Smith 7, James

a ,| MacKenzie He’, Graham 10. Total 26.

 
  
  
  

aS cers ‘Vail 23,

James 8,
‘Sylvester.

goalie, and netted the disc on the

prettiest goal of the night.

Dalhousie got their sixth goal at
the three minute mark in the third
as Churchill-Smith went in alone to
pick an upper corner with a lovely
shot. The black and gold squad controlled play for several minutes, but
they were jinxed, as they did every
thing but score.

At the 14 minute mark Churchill
Smith got Dal’s 7th counter on a
nice pass by hard-working Alan
Fetterly. A minute later he picked
up Wilson’s pass in front of the net
for his fifth goal. For the last few
minutes play was continually in Dal
territory and Munro was sensational
as he made stop after stop.

Girls’
Sport

 

 

 

At last we have heard of some
definite action about the swimming
meet. The date has tentatively been |
| set for the 8th of March. There is|
a chance that it may be changed,
as Dal has an intercollegiate basket| ball game scheduled for the 9th and
some of the players will no doubt
| be on the swimming team. 
The events of the meet will prob
ably be the same as last year: free

style, breast, side, and back stroke,
60 yard dashes; medley and freestyle relays, and diving. _

We sincerely hope the results will
be the same as last year, because
we'd like to keep that cup!

Anybody interested in trying out
for the team please get in touch
with Shirley Kirkpatrick, the swimming manager, as soon as possible.

 

By the way, we must mention
that the efforts of the band on Friday night were very much appreciated, by the Dal girls at least.
Thank you, boys!

 

Academy team really had control of

the play most of the time, but they| ter, MacAlden, Brownhill, Dowden,
didn’t manage to score very often.|James 5, Total 21.

However, we hear they are coming

tice game and we hope this one will|4- Total 13.

be better than the last.

 

If our team continues to improve
the way they did between the Acadia

and U.N.B. games, we expect them} day the 18th, in the Arts Building.
to really go to town when they play/| Election of officers, and discussion
_ Acadia on the 28rd of this month.

| was close, the Engineers, led by

Perhaps Friday night was too Vail and Grant, went into a lead
much for the girls, because the|@nd were never in danger from that
game played Saturday against the time on. For Engineers, Grant and
Halifax Academy was pretty messy. Vail had 8 points each, while WeinAlthough Dal finally did win, the|¢? had 6 for Medicine.

|

THE INTERMEDIATE GAME | manding 19-9 lead.

Dalhousie Cubs downed the Acadia| The ceri = hie poe ve *
Intermediates 21-17 in the Acadia| much better ball, Wilson opening
game which was featured by fast | ta. ae ie Sie Meer Sree
breaking but erratic passing by both | aires e Tigers add four more
squads throughout the first half. |

Dalhousie — Charman 9, Bundy 4,

5, D. Clarke 3, M. MacKeigan 5.
B. Schwartz K. Hicks, M. Johnson,
R, Harrison.

U.N.B.—M. Barberie 11, L. Dunphy 12, D. Fliger 2, M. MacLean,
|Points without a reply from the|B. Ritchie, P. Anderson, J. King, C.
Grads to make the score 17-19. From | Bruce, J. Gregory.

Stone 6, Anderson 2, J. MacKenzie, one eal the Grads settled Referee: Bev. Piers.
Hatchins, A: McKenzie. play steady ball, and led by

Acadia—Snell, Thomas, Camp 10, Hine MacIntosh, managed to hold of | MOON SHINES AS
Eaton 2, Shiery, Cox, Daken 3, 1 e Tigers for the remainder | FRESHETTES WHIP

O’Brien 2. of the game. JUNIOR-SENIORS

'
For Dalhousie, Hart and Wilson |
On Saturday the Freshette A

‘led the scorers with 7 and 6 points |
' respectively, while Crease and Mac-| Played the Junior - Seniors, beating
them by a score of 656—27. ‘The

Intosh had 10 and 8 for the Grads. J g innit f th
; unior-Seniors lacked some o eir
Grads—Crease 10, Spencer 3, Sim- best players and the Freshettes had

 

ee tg en tng oss ak spoon artin een Sos nities as. ape es

 

MEDICINE MEN LOSE
TWICE, TO KINGS

 

 

AND ENGINEERS monds 4, DeBlois 1, Barry, Mac- & -ftinitie  ialisde oni jee ees “4
Intosh 8, Bauld 4, MacKeigan, Wil- thrcuohiout the ahkele Damen Hae aPay
son 1. Total 31. ory . ti ; = A

|Moen was

scorer for the
Dalhousie—Ideson 2; a Sea-| Proshettes.

) high
King’s and Engineers were vie- |

   
  
  
   
    
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
    

torious in interfaculty basketball ; man 8, Dunbrack 4, Hart 7 » Wilson | The Junior-Seniors turned the
games played Thursday noon at | | 6, Stewart 2 » Smith 2. Tot a 26. tables on the Freshette B team on
Dalhousie. In the first game King’ s | oe | Wednesday night, however, when

downed Commerce by a score of 238-| The Y— —Navy game produced a

14, and in the second Engineers de-| much better brand of basketball to |
feated Medicine 21-13. watch. Although outplayed during |

King’s had little difficulty in| 'the first period, the Association |
downing Commerce as they took an! quintet came back in the second to |
early lead, and although Commerce | win the game. With Killam and!
threatened to tie the score in the | Arnott combining nicely the N: cae aa sucsgtig as baskets by Grant and
first period, the Kingsmen were | had a 10-6 lead shortly after the! C Creighton tied the score at 23-all,.
never really in danger. The King’s | period opened, but nice long shots by | Killam put the Navy out front again
peaeers checked their men very close,| Croucher cut it down. However the | with a pretty shot from the side, but
with the result that Commerce was Navy squad had a 16-11 lead at half|from here on the Y were masters
unable to get many shots away. At time. ‘of the situation as Doubleday pephalf time King’s had a 14-9 lead. | The Y had a reversal of form at| ped the Y boys up and they quickly

From the beginning of the second | _the outset of the second period ran up a 32-27 lead. For the rehalf, King’s started to score again, | tied the score at 17- all, Groucher | mainder of’ the game they managed
and only once did Commerce tighten | and Goudey getting the scores.; to maintain a slight lead ,the final
up, towards the later stages of the! However the Navy shortly after score being Y, 34, Navy, 31.

game. Although the game was | again took over the lead but it was Bey Piers handled the whistle.
somewhat rough, it was productive |

of good team play on both sides. |
Boite and LeMoine led the King’s |
scorers, while Doig was high man) ~
for Commerce. .

King’s — Boite 8, Barnstead 4, |
Jones, Nowe 4, LeMotnaee. Roby 1. |
Total 23.

Commerce — Blois, Doig 11, Godden, MacLeod 1, Miller, L. Mitchell
2, Serymageour, D. Mitchell. Total
14.

they won the game, 38—8.

As things stand now eaeh of the
class teams have won a@ game each,
so it looks as if it’s going to be a
fight for that eup of Red’s,

:

 

SY

and |

 

 

 

 

The Medicine-Engineers game was
rugged from start to finish. After
the first few minutes, when play

   

Engineers—Vail 8, Grant-8, Wal
    
 

DELICIOUS
APPETIZING

‘Weilsun's,

THE BEST CHOCOLATE MADE

Medicine—Weiner 6, Perlin, Mer
  

NOTICE

  

Newfoundland Club Meeting, Sun
of plans for the banquet.

 

J
tte

   

‘ m1 ‘
PA ees a 2 i
* ae s Te av
‘ Dal phiiee ul

cr | ts ‘ert ait? a nants ba se

 
