s = 7 = ire
vie Ale CRE re
I A ut. {

 
  

‘a ‘ine “out the possibilities of
establishing a co-operis Bg up Meare residence here
‘next fall. All those interested and willing to
i wor on the project
_ | should turn up on Sunday afternoon at 3.30
[at the Murray Home| stead.

  
   
 

VOL. LXXTI

 

SW

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 8, 1940

 

 

 
 
    
   
   
       
    

 

ane oasaneeeeavaciangeaennssananaeaaemepeeeepeneeneeto een

AUNT” WILL BE SMASH HIT TO. NIGHT

nes ~

NOTICE
Those

attending

interested in
the second

ot

University

at

MariStuAcadia should

Conference
time

dents

atend the study group

in the Murray Homestead, meeting every
Wednesday night at
7.30 o'clock.

 

No. 18

 

 

"Gentleman George” Corston New Council Prexy

 

Koretsky, Kirkpatrick — |
Perrot in Leading Roles

Tonight’s the night. After weeks |
of intensive preparation consisting |
of rehearsals, memorization, stage |
settings and dress rehearsals Henry |
Reardon and his protegees are at |
last presenting that screamingly- |
funny farce Charlie’s Aunt. Since |
this comedy has been a sure fire
success not only in London and on |

ata!

  

Wal, “shut ‘mah mouf ¢

iy ES oe

" i Mahe pace, drollery and carefree

mountain manners reigned at the

Gym Wednesday night when the
Daisy Maes of the campus promoted
by far the best party of the year,
with upwards of 150 couples in attendance and fully three-quarters of
them in a high state of rustic ¢ostumery—comic and colorful, a treat
to behold.

Li’) Abners and other notable
Dogpatch males were called for,
presented with vegetable corsages,
escorted throughout the evening,
dined and delivered home by co-eds
who demonstrated that they knew
how entertaining really should be
done.

Havoc reigned for a spell when
Pappy Scragg, in the person of a
well-disguised Webster Macdonald
barged in, brandishing a shotgun
and exhibiting the most ferocious
set of bicuspids seen on man or
beast in these parts as well as a
horse-hair beard of some length.
Betty Gilliat was chosen as the
best costumed Daisy, wearing a
glorious blonde toupee and a deliciously briet Dogpatch attire.

Seanty skirts and flowing coiffures adorned most of the females
while the male get-ups comprised

  
    

 

1

It’s Ole Man erage” Mm

\National Treasurer.
Of C. S. A. Resigns

Robert Spencer, national treasurer of the C.S.A., sent in his res-|
ignation to Grant Lathe, the national secretary of the organization. He
expressed his sympathy with the
plans for national scholarships and
attempts to strengthen EnglishFrench relationships. The reason he
gave for his resignation was as
follows:

“I have come to believe in the
truth of the accusations that C.S.A.
is not in control of truly representative Canadians.”

Since he was in disagreemént
with the Executive, he did not wish
to be' responsible for their actions.

Eleven of the twenty-eight McGill delegates to the C.S.A. Conference also withdrew their support because of “extreme political sentiment of the Executive and other
reasons.

New Opportunity
For Mining Geoglogists

Persons looking forward to a
career in the great outdoors will be
interested in the new course Professor Douglas has been instrumental in producing for next year. A
Bachelor of Science Degree with a

 

 

 

  
 
    
   
 
 
 
  

Broadway but in every

Club can’t miss when
they toss Charlie
gym footlights tonight.

Deors locked at 8.15

Owing to the disturbances in the |
late comers at Glee |
Club shows it has been decided that |

past caused ‘by

the gym doors will be closed at

sharp 8.15 when the show is sched- |

uled to start. If you don’t want to
miss the first act which is really a
panic be sure and arrived before
the 8.15 curtain call.

 

Munro Day Programme

3.90-—Softball — Studley vs Forrest,

3.25—Girl’s Basketball—Alumnae
vs Co-eds.

3.35 p.m.—Badminton.

3.50 p.m.
Studley vs Forrest

4.05 p.m.—Boxing (1 bout).

4.20 p.m,—Ping-pong.

4.30—Volley-ball.

4.45 p.m.—Gymnastics.

5.00 p.n.—Tea Dance

7.00 p.m.—lIntermission.

7.30 p.m.—Call to order.

7.31 -p.m.—Introduction
Council of Students

7.35 p.m.—New President of Council.

of New

7.38 p.m.—New D.A.A.C. _presi- | as the time limit for each speech ar- |

dent.

7.40 p.m.—President of Council of | @nd Prof. Mowat gave the unan- |

Students.

7.43 p.m.—Presentation of Munro
Day Shield.

7.45 p.m.—Presentation of Malcolm Honor
Awards.

7.50 p.m.—Speaker.

8.00 p.m.—Band.

8.10 p.m.—Presentation of Awards’

8.30 psm.—Sing song.
8.45 p.m.—Glee Club Show.
10.15 p.m.—Dancing.
1.00 p.m.—The King.

 

‘amateur
theatre on the continent, it looks as |
(jif the Glee
’s Aunt across the |

— Boy’s Basketball — | Years.
| tablished as a greater queen than|}

New “ Opauell: President

a

 

GEORGE CORSTON

Elizabeth Wins By
| Unaminmous Decision

 

 

On Monday night three co-eds
from New Brunswick settled in no
uncertain manner a question which
has puzzled historians for many
Elizabeth was definitely es
| Victoria. The merits of both queens
| were discussed. The arguments up-|
| holding the free and easy days of
| “the Good Queen Bess” won, while |
| Victoria’s family life and_ solid
| democratic government fell down.

All this took place in the Arts
Building. Frank Corcoran, Presi-|
dent of Sodales, as chairman, was
an exact time-keeper, getting appar| ent satisfaction by tapping the desk
rived. Prof. John Willis, Dr. Bell
|imous decision in favor the visiting
team.

Jessie Peacock, Joe Rowan and
Betty MacDonald very effectively

B. The Dalhousie team of Betty
Sandall, Rowena Benson and Louise

Coe Ae AG: President

 

CLAYTON HUTCHINS

|

The New Council

President: George Corston.
Vice-Pres: Webster Macdonald.
Arts and Science:

Louise Bishop, Ruth McQuarrie,

HUTCHINS NEW
D. A. A. C. PRESIDENT

MACDONALD

| MACQUARRIE
ALSO ELECTED

in student polities hit a
new at Dalhousie all through
the hectic week that culminated in
| the elections last Tuesday. Although

; iterest
hich

a large number did not care to exercise their franchise, their lack of
interest was more than made up by
those voters who played an actice

most keenly conseen on the
way

part in one of the
tested campaig
gampus. The following is the
| the ballots were cast:
| Commerce:
| Dewar MacLeod.
| Dentistry:
| Morris Nickerson.
Medicine:

Joseph MacDougall,

ns ever

Sydney

Inez Smith, Otto Antoft, Bob Swans-| Wright.

burg.
Engineering:
Martin Eisenhauer.

and Pan - Hellenic| presented their arguments for U.N. Vice-President:

Bishop gave a fine outline of Vic- Secretary:

toria’s accomplishments, and _ although they lost the decision they
are to be congratulated, and are
now entitled to be awarded the coveted gold “D”.

APPLICATIONS
Applications will be received up to Saturday night, March 16th,

for the following position;. .
1. Editor of Gazette:

Salary $100. Applications may be single or joint.

Selection made with the expectation that

Business Manager of the following

guarantees will be required to the

’

‘ patched and ragged pantery, straws |Special diploma in Mining Geology 4. Business Manager of Gazette: aN
a and felts of mountain design, corn-|is the award, attainable in four Payment on commission basis only—20% of gross advertising.
pone crocks and elaborate whiskers, | Years. 3. Assistant Business Manager of Gazette:
"i Marryin’ Sam carried in his shingle} This new schedule offered ‘by the Guarantee of a minimum remuneration of $25.00 paid by the
arly in the evening with special|Geology department, including the Business Manager.
rates for the occasion—being recog-|fundamentals of engineering with incumbent shall become the
nized as Charlie Roberts prevented the maximum amount of Chemistry year—except i special instances.
him from getting any bona fide|and Geology, has been drawn up in| 4- Publisher of Student Directory and Handbook:
business. A burlap-encased Boston| response to a distinct need. Profes- Remuneration on same basis as that of the Business Manager
“Orangeoutang” caused mystifica-|80r% Douglas, with his usual eye to of the Gazette. Necessary
: tion by his obstreperous anties and| the practical, has observed that the effect that book will appear before a suitable date to be set in
f was later suspected of being a notor- Arts and Science graduate in Geo- consultation with the Council.
- ious local photographer, ology is often discriminated against} 5. Assistant to (4):
4 ; when it comes to job-getting be- Remuneration on same basis as that of the Assistant Business
\ _Appropriate decorations, well pre- cause of a preference for men train Manager of the Gazette.
pared programmes and good music | eq by the Engineering schools. The| 6. Editor of Year Book:

evinced that the committees set up

_ by the Delta Gammas had done their

work well.
chell, Smith, Sandall, Hicks,
_ Schwartz, Little, and Mack were the

committee Pete Walley’s cartoons

at one
it

Misses Blackwood, Pat
new Mining Geology Diploma will
make future Dalhousie graduates
attractive to Mining Companies,
thereby facilitating their search for
good positions. Complete timetable for all four years has been
posted in the Geology library.

 

Applications to be received sitbject to decision of incoming

Council regarding publication of a 1941 Year Book.

Under

present arrangement, remuneration is agreed upon by the
Editor and the printer and is paid by the latter.
7. Applications to be directed to the undersigned at 98!4 Edward St.

March 6, 1940.

M. M. RANKIN,
Secretary-Treasurer.

(Signed)

/

 

Arts ;
& Sc. Med
Pres. Students’ Council:
CORSTON.. 122 66
REARDON ..... 85 92
| Vice-President: .
| MacDONALD ... 147 90

BLACKWOOD .. 55 66
| President D.A.A.C.:
| HUTCHINS 30. 539 128
| MUNRO .... 67 24

Vice-President:

BLAS eas 69 82

MOUNTAIN .... 35 54
| | Secretary:

DOT ¢ Coie ae 56 52
| MILLER ....... 44 8B
| President Glee Club:

MacQUARRIE .. 100 97

REYNOLDS .... 96 52

PATCHELL .... 100 39

FLEMMING .... 95 101

KIRKPATRICK... 88 107

ARCHIBALD ... 76 43

Committee Appointed
To Aid Students

 

The first step toward participa|tion in the International Student
Service campaign, beginning in most
Canadian colleges, was taken at a
Council meeting last Sunday, following a report by Henry Ross that the
N.F.C.U.S. executive had endorsed
the campaign and urged action, A
committee of three was set up to
advise and plan procedure: Henry

Ross, chairman; John Windebank,
secretary; Shirley Kirkpatrick,
treasurer. The Council will take

further steps at their next meeting
toward meeting their responsibility
in a cause generally agreed to be
vitally important.

Delta Gamma awards for Monroe |

Day were also approved by the |

meeting and the Glee. Club Consti
tution accepted. The Year Book ter of Dalhousie’s

committee announced that there was
scant probability that the Pharos
would be ready by Munroe Day.

 

Law:
Art Peake.

Freshman Rep: John Windebank.

Law Dent Com Eng Total
58 23 22 32 328
6 6 5 13 207
60 19 25 28 369
4 1] 2 17 165
52 18 13 18. 266
9 8 12 25 1465
45 15 22 24 269
16 8 3 20 § 136
39 7 8 28 185
21 17 22 138 202
30 13 8 24 272
32 13 19 20 280
18 14 8 14 1938
42 13 19 29 299
40 15 19 27 296
21 8 8 16 172

Sodales Booked
For Three Debates

Debating will hold the spotlight
in college activities for the next
few days. Sodales Debating Society
has announced that three Dalhousie
teams, chosen at trials some time
ago, will match tongues with orators of sister colleges in major platform debates.

On Friday, March 8th, Messrs.

Whallick (Dentistry) and North
(Law) will travel to St. Thomas
College, Chatham, N. B., to uphold

the affirmative of the resolution,
“that Science has merely created an
illusion of progress”,

St. Mary’s College, Halifax, will
be host to a Dalhousie team composed of George Piercey (Law and
|Allan Sparkes (Commerce) on Mon(day evening, March 11th.

On Wednesday evening, March 13,
| Rt. Hon. D. J. Amiro, prime minisMock Parliament.
and ably supported by Walt Gaudet,
will tackle a strong Acadia team in
the Munro Room, Forrest Building,
at 8 p.m.

 

 
 
 
    
  
  

TY gh 2 Bs ! vile vet e @'¥
r ; i) yas Axe.’ ee ae fs ¥ ar - uF a Pe P
=> ee Ae tah eet ———s ~
a a2 4 Ey My: aia ;
> Lee See COC y ,

ya . ha

7 ee. _
- j
hl
a ae
t
aE. _
x Ul is
A Yo . Te
a
.
Zu
is

’ s ‘hs ‘9 “The Oldest College Paper in America”

 

     
    

   

      
    
 

    
   
   
 
     
  
     
   
  
  

  

'\. News Editor: ee WINDEBANK - - - - BASS
"Sports Editor: D. CAMERON = - - - - - 3-068
Assistant Sports Editor: JOHN WHYTE

> Feature Editor: BOB MAITLAND - - - - - B-10%3
. : Literary Editor: GENEVIEVE MacMAHON  - - 85-9746

Berens '' 7 Assistant Literary Editor: AINSLEY EMBREE
ee aes Exchange Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD - - -_ B-9746
EU. P. Editor: JACK MATTHEWS _ = B-1049
ye gir sanorng KEN ARCHIBALD - - B-302!

OE ae
ss THE LAND OF THE FREE?
Now that the political tub-thumping of student elections
fet has subsided, a word or so on a larger and more impo t

B-9746

 

ct, that as yet has not aroused particular interest, might
. n order-to-wit, the coming federal election. If the same
_ . attention were given to the political questions of the country
as a whole, as was shown during the week preceding the recent
_ poll held at this university, perhaps Canada would not be in the
- grave danger in which she now stands of losing her civil rights |
and democratic privileges at home in order to go and fight for
si them abroad. Political apathy and intellectual inertia on the
one hand, and the dictatorial methods of the !
ment and the military authorities on the other, are making this |
subject one of pore, thas inate academic sake The great
_-bulk of the people of this country are not aware,
seem to ss, tat the constitutional liberties, that have been
Ne - gigned at Runnymede, are in serious danger of going by the
- poard. We in Canada are menaced by two lines of cross fires. |
The first comes from men of the stamp of Father Coughlin,
__-whose poisonous vituperation against the British tradition and |
E _ democracy in general attempts to stifle any efforts at selfgoverment, which has been the key-note of British political |

   

   

a .

ae

Pe a ought. At the other extreme are fanatics like George Mac- Cullagh, who will not admit that the British Empire has stains

just the same as any other nation, and who

 

   

The Editor:

the students have exercised their
democratic rights, there are certain
aspects of the campaign that should
be cleared up. Nor is this a case of
“sour grapes” or sulking over the
results. Observing the undercurrents of the last two weeks many
students must have been dismayed
at the extremely questionable methods used to discredit one particular
candidate. Ugly rumors were everywhere, in corridors, in the gym, in
labs, and in the store, about the integrity of this candidate.

mors is not the point; the point is
that the person in question had no
real opportunity to defend himself
or combat effectively the whispered,
vicious insinuations. Whoever started this whispering campaign should
have had the courage and honesty
present govern-|,
a student body meeting where they

h could have been thrashed out in full
nor do they | daylight.

at such a high cost since the Magna Charta WAS | that Melhatiousnig stodkniel without
| verifying or attempting to get the

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

THE EDITOR’S MAIL

flection upon their sense of fair
play.

I do not know if the other candidate was aware of the methods used
by some of his supporters. I believe
and hope that he was not. If he
was he should have demanded that
the charges be made and substantiated at an open meeting for students.

Let me say here that personally
I am not at all displeased with the
results of the elections; it is to the
underhand methods used that I am
objecting. The accusations can still
be aired and must be aired.

The Students’ Council should institute an investigation into the
whole mess and the person in question should be given full opportunity to clear his name. Otherwise
this past campaign will remain a
blot upon democracy as practiced at
Dalhousie. The Council nominated
the candidates and should be prepared to defend their selection,
otherwise students can only conclude that they made a mistake in
refusing to put through the motion
of censure over the C.S.A. question.

Students’ Council, this is a challenge to you; if you accept it you
will have Vindicated the faith placed
rumors and passed them on as true.;in you when the students refused
For university students who should| to censure you on Feb. 1, otherwise
have some regard for the truth and| you stand condemned.
decency this is indeed a damning re
Though the election is over and

The truth or falsity of these ru
o bring forward the accusations at

But worse than this is the fact

other side of the story, absorbed the

DEMOS.

:

   

For C.A.S.F. Overseas only
$1.00 will send 300 Sweet Caps

  
   
   
   
   
 
   
   

P. ©. Box, 6000, Montreal, Que.

  

“1 was the key man of the regiment.”
“Why, did you supply the Sweet Caps? ”

on

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

upon its escutcheon
deny the right of
ie policy of our own or

free and intelligent discussion of the war| N- F, G; U. ~ Offers Exchange Scholarships
of the British government. Both of these|1. Object of the Plan DIVISION II: The Universities of

. throw all their weight upon the side of reaction and it is | The object of the plan is to per- | Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Mani Ask For
a the duty of Canadians to steer a middle course between this | mit specially selected students to toba;
_ Seylla and Charybdis, insisting on the right of self-government, | take ee ae yack at| DIVISION III: The Universities FARMERS’ ICELAND BARS
for one thing, and the right to free constructive criticism on | universities other than the “home” | of Ontario and Quebec; 3
the other. ee ae ee Sol vDEVISION IV: The Universities A DELICIOUS REFRESHMENT
PY Constitutional history was made during that first week in Cartada. It a hoped t at these | of the Maritime Provinces.
Hah September of last year. If the last war resulted in Dominion scholarships will, to a certain ex, | Subject to certain exceptions, no

“Taste the Difference”

 

status, this one has driven home once and for all that we now tent, act as a check on the tendency
-. have national status as well. For that week both Germany and|of Canadian university students to
the United States refused to recognize Canada as a belligerent become restricted in outlook, acadin spite of the accepted dictum that when Britain was at war |emically and geographically , Also,
Canada was automatically at war as well. Not until a formal)in many cases the plan permits
) Jeclaration of war had been made by this country did foreign specialized study otherwise unob- nays
a recognize that we were at war with Germany. Along’ tainable. In most cases the saving |4. Eligibility
Ms this constitutional right has gone a vastly es. ae a au ee ie sig fide ern. oes -and defen wer of the rer . In face ance the tWansportaton female, who is applying for study
Pee Ee or abe tank ay vi, ‘the Exchange Scholar from his home| at a university in another division
university to the “exchange” univer-!jn the thrd year of his course, or
sity, any year beyond the third, is eligbene She point to be made is that this sudden increase ma Practicability of the Plan us ible provided that he undertakes to
y at ae centralized power has been accompanied by an unwarranted | ta plan has pee niagudeiate Fecal return the fo lowing year to his
__ -¥estriction of civil abilities. Not only that, but the method | fer cight years, during w erin home university to complete the
used has been strictly un-democratic; for during the seven ‘ly students have taken advantage | work for his degree. Several unimonths that Canada has been at war Parliament has been. if it ard have voiced their appreci- | versities will permit students to atPe pe sitting for less than a week! And this in a country that has 2/0» to the opportunities it afford-|tend under the exchange plan for
declared war with the avowed intention of saving democracy! | ¢¢: Cae de graduate work, whether or not they
From the very first, unprecedented moves have been made by | The plan has now been in ettec are returning to their home univerthe government at Ottawa, which is rapidly assuming the aspect eer eight years, during which me sity for another year’s work, but a
of adictatorship. According to the regulations of the governor-|'™2"y students have taken advan-| special request should be made to
-._ 4n-council, that is to say, the cabinet, there was an ‘enemy’ with tage of it and have voiced their ap-| this office in respect of any applica- whom Canada was forbidden to trade before Parliament had|Preciation of the opportunities It} tion -of this nature. Honours stua time to declare war. During the same week, the War Measures afforded. dents are eligible, but it is often
| difficult to arrange their courses,

| student is allowed to apply for the
| benefits of the plan unless he con| templates taking work at a univer|sity which is in a different division
ithan is his home university.

      
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
   
 

ser

FARMERS’ LIMITED
HALIFAX, N.S.

‘much-vaunted provincial rights have faded away and
ventration of power has taken place at Ottawa that may

m=
Toa 3 s

we the whole post-war structure of the country.

   
 

  

 

 

 

 
  

Winter Sports

Good Appetites

 

then
The

Green Lantern
for good foods

407-409 Barringtor St.

“Eastern Canada’s Fineat
Restaurant”

It’s Smart to Eat
After The Show

The Cameo chefs are preparing your evening “snack” as
the last scene fades out at
your favorite movie. Many
theatre fans like to come to
the Cameo and discuss the
picture in comfort.

THE CAMEO

35 Spring Garden Road

 

_<—enetlt tC LE

Peer: invoked, putting Canada on a war-time footing before|* General Scope of the Plan

ve — had been dediared, The first step made was not to summon| For the purpose of the pp ne :
Parliament and get their approval, but to take measures for |"™iversities of Canada are a
mobilization and censorship ,and to make provision for the|i"te four different divsons, as tol
internment of aliens. Part of the reguluations passed under lows: i 1 Fen a
the War Measures Act (the beauty of these Government-in-|_ DIVISION I: The University 0
Council regulations is that our representatives at Ottawa do | British Columbia;

| not have to scrutinize them and yet they are, ipso facto, law)
.

:

Time For Application

All applications must be in the
hands of the local Selection Committee on or before the 31st day of
March.

 

are the Defence of Canada Regulations which give to the and teach them—a little money would provide essential books

ant t horities much more drastic powers than that|@"d equipment.

Vay 1 seape nna phe gg apt Act in Great Britain. In that} | Czech students keep filtering through (God knows how
Bere country parliament has met continuously since the outbreak| they do it) to Switzerland. Their compatriot scholars muri of the war and criticism not only of the Chamberlain govern-|dered or imprisoned, their families separated and scatter ed,
| ment but of the war policy itself is a matter of common occur-| theirs is the most tragic story in the world. Their plight is too
rence. The Defence of the Realm Act, which from the first was| desperate to ignore.

Dalhousie University

| more moderate than ours, has since been modified.
Rees All this goes to prove that we in Canada are either
ie inclined to take our democracy for granted, or that we think

, that a dictatorship is more efficient for the carrying on of a| Service in Geneva—and behind each plea
war. If the former is the case we are due for a rude shock from) a tragic past. and uncertain future.

our lethargy. the latter is true then democracy is merely a

    
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

be better off without it. This is not so however.

ne | only’

to bring the support of the country whole-heartedly behind the
war. effort. People will fight for an ideal more courageously

rather than consent. If things continue in the trend that they
now are taking the future of self-government in.this country
is anything but bright.

7; THE LIGHTS ARE GOING OUT
ied) (Contributed)
| The story of how education and student life in Europe is
in the process of being steadily obliterated was brought home
to a small group at a supper meeting by Phil Beattie, 1.5.5.
representative, this week. |
_ Five hundred Spanish students interned in France literally
‘rotting; with no occupation, no medical attention and no seg____ regation—a little money would make it possible for them to
gin to live again in South America.
tudents from fe University of Warsaw and other Polish

    
    

3

stand by whatever government is elected this month on not| decades to come. (
eir war aims but their peace aims as well, would do much| and ablest minds of the world are in need of succour in order

than for a regime, especially a regime based on compulsion |

Hundreds of refugee students come through from Germany
with lives miraculously preserved. Fourteen hundred applicants pleading for assistance from the International Students’
a human being with

These are representative pictures of the devastation from

luxury that cannot take the bumps of rough going and we would| a deliberate and determined war on Education that is smother: | | A definite| ing learning in Europe and leaving a scar that will remain for

Students and Faculty members, the keenest
that Europe rhay not revert to generation of darkness and
barbarity.

The International Students Service, an organization of
many years’ standing, which, during the last war provided
miraculous opportunities of learning for imprisoned men—
such as Canada’s Sir Ernest MacMillan, who by its help won
his Doctorate of Music while in a prison camp at Cologne—is
now inundated with desperate appeals. The I.8S.S. is turning
to the students of North America, well fed and well housed,
plentifully and comfortably supplied, to make some effort and
some small sacrifice to keep the lamp of learning alight in the
motherlands of our Sciences and Arts.

One postcard received by the Geneva office came through
from a German prison—‘“a book and a cake of soap, please!”
—that would keep a man from going crazy for a time at least.

The organization is theresto help. It needs only money—
we in Canada can at least furnish a little of that.

Dalhousie’s Council is preparing to play its part.

Dalhousie students will be asked to bear their share; the
|lights in Europe must not all go out!

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Sc.

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

OE

4@| PHI KAPPA PI

When the National Fraternity of
Phi Kappa Pi granted a charter to
a group of petitioners from Dalhousie University on March 3d, 1923
the Dalhousie Chapter of Phi Kappa
Pi became the first social Fraternity on the Dal campus. In the intervening years the Phi Kapps have
established and maintained a posi
tion of tmportance in the life of
Dalhousie.

Among thier distinguished alumni are C. J. Burchell, K. C., Canadian High Commissioner to Australia and Dean Syd Smith a former
dean of Dalhousie Law School. Of
the younger alumni who were outstanding at College in scholarship,
athletics or campus activities are
Pat Gunter, who captained the
rugby team, Carl Stoddard who
played rugby and “Pooh” DeWolfe
who played rugby and hockey. Ian
MacKeigan and Doug Crease edited
the Gazette and were prominent in
Council activities. Ernie Richardson and Arthur Patillo were active
in Sodales, and Gordon Cooper is a
Nova Scotia Rhodes Scholar.

After only six months of war the
Dalhousie Chapter has already begun to do its bit many of the
Alumni and active chapters having
been already called to the colors.
The list includes Carl Stoddard and
“Pooh” DeWolfe with the Royal
Canadian Navy, John Rowley, Captain Cameron, Highlanders, Ottawa;
Leo Simmonds, Lieutenant Princess
Louise Fusiliers; Bud MacDougal,
Lieut. Pictou Highlanders; A. B.
MacKenzie, Lieut. R. C. A.; and
Drs. Ritchie Douglas and Jannie
Hopkirk in the Medical Corps.

- The Phi Kapps have always been
PC2Y an active bunch and the present
an ee of 24 ‘members is following

    
 

es ts dausaet sie of attention especially from our medical
r ends ... of course purely from
the a eran point of view.

wie “ie SER

‘ Wesrines has found out that love
as its complications . . . interference from the sweet one has curbed
hi S actions, maybe: “Chatterbox” is

       
   

   
 

       

     
       
   

      
     
    
 
     

*

. sel Gillis has been seen quite freque ntly trotting Gay MacKenzie
p0 und. Could this be the reason
eKeigan has resorted to what

ild almost be termed “cradle
    
       
      

    
       
      
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

  
   

 

%+ e£

 

      
   

s to halt the persistent ads of “Oliver Twist” Sayer.

    
    

       
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 

it vanes bagel by taking leading parts in all
pan many student activities. \ MacDougall,

Le | J ohnson and Cameron are on the
Council; Hutchins, Cameron and
Charman are on the D.A.A.C.;

Kenzie play on the Tigers basket
ball squads, Smith being captain of
the senior sextett and MacKenzie
eaptaining the Cubs; Patterson played intercollegiate hockey and is on
the Arts and Science Society executive; McNeil and MacDonald managed the Tiger ice squads this winter and Roberts is property manager of the Glee Club.

An important chapter of a national fraternity established on six
Canadian campuses the Phi Kapps
are liked and respected by their fellow Dalhousians.

  

a noe ry for a date on Madnusday” :
V2 it why the hell did he break the

en 5 yement the next day?

| se &

    
   
           
   
  
 

   

eetion with King’s College
Sunday evening should know the
son: “Yank” Forsythe was whis¢ “sweet nothings” to 92 OakRoad (sorry we don’t know the
; here boys!) from 7.15 till 9 p.m.
F e i, ‘* « 2
_ FLASH! — “Glamour Girl” Mari.
lacKenzie finally got to the Sig
haa ‘ormal with one of the boys from
te . there were ramours of an
      
     
    
 

  

°

7
mt 7
s

 
   

  

lan

        

          
    
 

    
        
   
 
   
 
  
 
    
     
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
 

surrounded and seranaded by many
frail fragments of femininity — to
wit, Shirreff Hall girls, Rogers, Sayers and Payzant—and the next minute he is down at Norman’s with

4

pa “Lonesome pie Heliats s new
hy girl friend, Frances Picts, claims | +55 new standby, Marjorie. Is he
Bil her ambition in life is to “be a cow- sticking with her or stuck with her?
4 boy and wear her own pants!” ...

Mis “Destry Rides Again”. Rees

n * + * at the Masonic Hall on. Saturday
night.

nC

4 “What is “Cuddles”, alias “Fat- Notable among those pres
stuff”, up to these days? One min-|ent were “10%” Lawson, “Owl”
re is sitting on a gym piano,|Black, “Curly” Disher, “Kissy”
Lynch, “Hor-ace” Trites, and that

“cut-in-artist” J. C. Smith.

at * x
_ Little Willie Harvey is back on
the beat again... seen at the Pi

“PERSONAL”
Phi Formal with the ever lovely

oh ied your gift is |I xa.
a mounted with the Dal- a
housie crest, you make The same “Sorority” Formal was
it truly a personal || sraced by the presence of our “eterie gift. nal freshman” and “Deah Cahstairs”
; disguised as bemonocled gentlemen.
* a on
Confucius says: “Man who puts
girl on pedestal is building up to
an awful let-down.”

 
       
     
   
   
    

2 ——
sa aie,

ge 4, Se — ~ es
7 *g SP A ee le es a
~ wT, at 2" ~
me . " :

Arrange with Birks
for this exclusive service.

ee

 

Insist on
Donovan’s Beverages
15 « Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN

Bee eS. 45 GRANVILLE ST. B-6821

 

AM sf:
AT

  
  

’ Wy 7 A

, * a
tae eh rh
, " ots a

wr =

ts Hie
a iy Ave

in the tradition of their predeces- |

Smith, Hart, Anderson and Mac- |

    
 
 
    

Ma ee

a Fag ia ea"
a) ee ,

ie,

  
 

¥!

  
 

7 wy oy hs a

in j
1 / “i 3 4! ;
Pee ex rai de

 

RUFUS RAYNE FROM RANGOON « »

 

EE
oe Daley : ie
i y Per .
4 a 7 t ' :
Re iv
l F i

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

ipter XV.
Rufus Rayne on Bunrow Day, or
Lend a Hand, Brother, I’m Slippin’.

As dark brown bottles marked at
26 oz. waivered through the dense
blue fog which hovered in the locker room and throughout the gym
basement, and Glum Club properties slithered across the slimy
floor, the clarion voice of a wimpering freshette heralds the dawn of
a new Bunrow Day.

Approximately at the same time
as the Dominion observatory time
signal struck the long dash (three
bar’s out) Rufus Rayne met one
Chump Hamway in the murky confines of the Glum Club kitchenette
where they, both being paunchy
people, had found a somewhat mutual attraction.

“Say, Chump, who’s this Minnie
Moose from out our alley?” burbled
the irresponsible Rufus, interrupting a chorus of Glory, glory to Dalhousie in D flat with an intermezzo
by the Indian affair, entitled “How”.

The ponderous pachyderm Chump
threw his expansive corporation,
made in Nova Scotia, out the window as he rendered the last plaintive “How!” and whispered. “Are
you not a lover of music, my fran?”’

“T love Roof MaQuarry,
cousin to Burning Gallstones,” quoth
Rufus MeGoofus, “but who’s this
Minnie Moose?”

Whereupon Chief Chump, clutching up another empty, gurgled in
a guttural Indian dialect, sometimes heard at the Masonic Hall:

“Minnie Moo is a _ reasonable
facsimile of the dairy maid type
often seen frequenting English 2,
Sherriff Haul and Physical Education classes—ugh!” ;

as ba ¥

Three Little Maids From School.
“IT hear Minnie Moose and the
other dairy maids are taking part
in the Bunrow Day show, or it is
taking them apart, or both,” burbled the confused Rufus as he
scratched his crimson thatch with a
meat-axe.
“Squaws like Minnie Moo: doin’
dance, all same Carnation Contented
Hour in television, cow!—I mean
How!” grunted Big Chief Chump
Hamway as Hellan Savers and her
big brother Life Savers filched the
meat-axe from the bawling Rufus
and with one daft stroke sliced Big
Chief Chump two shades thinner
and then with murderous intent! y

second | °

Barnone and the fast-fading Filthy
Fifteen.

Hellan and Life Savers completely
demolished the entire Filthy Fifteen
with two blasts from Life Saver’s
disintegrator-ray gun (marked at
80% O. P., Hollis Street); then the
fair Hellan, disguised as the once
besmirched Maid of Justice, in long
white robes, with the symbolic
scales of victory rattling in her
hand, mounted the platform and assisted a new, fouler and more Filthy
Fifteen to the sacrificial chopping
block where Rufus Rayne expects to
do a fair job of axemanship in the
near future.

The new foul bunch squirmed and

wiggled as Miss Savers pushed them | ~

up the steps.

Cee. Cel Corsettes put up a stiff
resistance, but at the sight of the
cruel Rufus collapsed from fright
and had to be relieved from Mr.
Vice Wubber’s bottle of smelling
salts.

Unawed by this magnificent spectacle Big Chief Chump squatted in
the midst of his tribal gods, muttering, “Bunrow Day, damn good thing,
squattum here, drinkum hooch—and
How!”

. That’s one good owl who won’t

That’s one good owl who won’t
give a hoot in hell. Will Minnie
Moo go back to Musquodoboit?
Will we see you at Bunrow Day?
Will we see you? Will we see

... 2? Will we ever?

say 99

The unique question under discusSion in the Third Estate this week
was, we are reliably informed, proposed by the inimitable Mr. Murphy. Mr. Murphy is interested in
both organizations. (See other columns). It is well known in second
year that our student friends from
Wolfville discovered the Masonic
Hall and The Wolverine Club, some
time ago,

That First year boys ‘nadie go to
it hard when they set out to do a
night’s work was proved last week
by some who gathered at Kings. It

was conclusively shown that one who

they ferociously went for Fretty| disgraces the group by sleeping

 

  

the
third estate

 
   

The student’s view—Masonic Hal
vs. Bronte Club, for pleasure or profit on a Saturday evening.

Jack Boyd; final year Law—

I haven’t been to the Masonic
Hall, so I can’t say much about it.
They tell me you can have a hell| yan, it’s just that when they see

of a fine time there.
Club, too, has its merits!

Donald Graham; first year Med.— |
Never been either place but Char- | worth
lie Gordon tells me that the fresh- |

ments served at the Bronte Club

are excellent.

“Penny” Patchell;
(This takes some thought.) I’m

on a sit down strike till someone |}shame, O Mad Rufus:

takes me to the Masonic.
Ted Hallett; fourth year Arts—
There is much to be said about

_| both places—Hmmmm!

Joan Ballem; third year Arts and
popular invalid No. 1—

boy,

ean dance—Guess I’d like the Masonie better; I’d meet more friends.

(Columnist’s note: Delirium?)
Gorden Hennigar; third
Science—

year |the students’

The Masonic Hall is alright if you

feel that way.

George Collins; final year Law—
Aw gosh, I wouldn’t know.

I’ve

been ‘elsewhere’ for the last five
| Saturday nights—Just little parties,

you know.
(Yeah, we know).

' ve A ie vi be
7 % ay ei ha dt 5 ; :
i ae eave) gS Re

eo i vi Anse eel. 4 ; ke
" Mey eas) Cpe Us
e = a : -< i. =~ —— 2

  

 

does not readily swallow water—not

without waking, anyway. Leighton

won’t sleep in company with his

mouth open again for a while.
First prize for the week’s blush
goes to Dud Dickie for his doubledoozer rendered when Dr. Smith
told him before the class that “his”’

; | test had proved positive. Dr. Smith’s

rising prescription should be of use
to Jim Squires who has trouble
getting out of bed in the mornings.

It’s not that the boys want to be
always running away from Ralston

The Bronte|him they realize how late they are

'for class.
Out of a blue sky Frank Dunsremarked, “Politics makes

strange bedfellows.” Which just
goes to show how little we know
each other. Now we never realized

2nd year Arts—)| Frank was interested in either.

For QO Little Pig; for
for two. weeks
now you have attempted to sustain
student interest in your writings by
‘low allusions and dirty insinuations.
Not that we’re jealous, but the one

really funny paragraph we

shame,

 

sanctimonious of

) support. The

 

sullied,

Can we get away with it too?

ing presence of ladies.
| Weld has a sense of humour.

ever
wrote deseribed an incident that hapWell now, to be truly serious, my| pened on a Glee Club stage, that
I do not approve of dancing | most
—I’d like to go anywhere just so I| with a minister in attendance and
incident was only
very slightly off colour but the local
| Haves office was determined that
minds should not be
What then has happened.
Has the Gazette depreciated? Must
ether columns resort to such vile
James Feindel; Second year Med;—| practices? Have the students grown

It depends on the mood you’re in.| up?

Somebody will have to take Gordon MacKenzie in hand and teach
him to refrain from violent language in class—especially considerLucky Dr.

locations,

 

Page Three

 

many

pre:
A Hangover From The Mermaid’s

Tavern or The Futility of It All College men, call at COLWELL’S
on Barrington Street for all your

clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the

right clothes for all oceagions—

Classwear, Sportswear and Dress
wear.

 

By GUS HOO

Beneath the trees, besides the tracks

A Hall was built to house the
“Cats.”

Year in, year out the lowly male

Has went his way along the trail .

Till footsore and weary at last he
finds

His rendezvous beneath the pines.

Our new stock is now complete.

C.0.T.C.— We oor a — line of
Military Clothing & Accesevries.

COLWELL BROS
LIMITED

The English Shop

 

With joyful heart the © faithful

swaine 453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax
In an alcove sits to wait his flame

flame
The minutes pass, he arrived at

nine,

  

As usual, he’s right on time,

He, looks at those pictures, they’ve |

hung for years

Then anxiously at the clock he peers,

“Oh damn it,” he says, its ninefifteen,

And kicks the piano,
Mackean

From her lair “trucks” forth, expression so grim

And cruelly cracks “Oh! its you |
ag’in.”

After wandering round till a quarter
to ten,

She finally appears—once the flame
—now the “hen,”

He’s sorer than hell but what can
he do, |

He’s a gentleman ever, yes, tried
and true.

So down he sits and patiently listens |

To a tongue, that with excuses
glistens

When its over
skirt has won .

He thinks he’s set for an evening’s
fun

The dope forgets where he is at

That soon he must don his coat and |
hat |

For at yon hall, so help me, vender.)

The clock’s black hands are out to

New Method
Watch

Cleaning
Guaranteed 1 year

Main Springs, $1.08 ;

OXFORD |;

Jewellery Store
», 575 Barrington St. ‘

     
 

  
    
 

but Miss

      
 
 

 

 

Capitol

Continuous, 1 to 11 p.m.

}

THE LANE SISTERS

—in—

“FOUR WIVES”

and done and the

 

Coming Tuesday
“THE TOWER OF

beat yer. LONDON”
And so it is that hardly settled
The curfew sounds and nerts, he’s Basil Rathbone
nettled,
For wouldn’t you feel just a mite Boris Karloff
Berane Barbara O’Neil
If all YOUR dates ended at sharp
ten-thirty.

 

 

 

PACKAGES

RE SOARING (Waar

CANADA’S FINEST VIRGINIA CIGARETTE
Tew com tT ALAMOS rh oe Tae Oy amma ae ee a et ee mar a

OUTSET UAVS eSATA

  

 

 

 

WHEN YOU NEED:
| DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

! YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

MTL TULL LLLP ULTRAM LARP MTT nT co

 

 

 

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose.

Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST.

 

HALIFAX, N. §.

|
|
Underwood Elliott |
ea

  
 

   

There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — You’ll Enjoy It!

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
  
      

 
  

 

Grads Lose
ober Ag

+
5

 

   

Medical hockeyists are the 1940
interfaculty hockey champions. After winning the Forrest section ie
| gue, they hooked up wi
ian ae ee finals and handed
them a decisive 8-3 defeat. This is
the second year in a row the Meds
have taken the title.

 

After outplaying Acadia Axemen by a big margin in the first
period, Dalhousie Tigers slumped
in the second half and allowed the
Valley boys to win the Nova
Seotia intercollegiate title. The
game was a sudden death affair,
and was witnessed by only a small
crowd of students. Perhaps this
lack of student support is the
cause of many Dal losses—who
knows?

Only a little over a week is left
before the boxing team leaves for
St. F. X. to compete in the Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing Championships. Coach Abe Becker of the
boxing team still wants more material for the coming bouts. Your
weight doesn’t matter, so let’s see
more of you pugilists out to practice.

 

After goin gthrough the interfaculty basketball schedule without a defeat, Law hoopsters will
hook up with Arts and Science in
a two game total point series for
the championship. Both faculties
have good teams this year and we

expect to see some good basket
_. ball in the playoff games.

 

Dal Cubs sprang a surprise in the
intermediate league last Thursday
when they dropped a close game to
the R.C.A.F. Weakened by the loss
of several of their first string men,
who have moved up to the senior
Tigers, the Cubs were no match for
the up and coming Airmen, who
controlled tha play from start to
finish.

 

Dal Tigers lost their second
overtime game last Thursday
evening, when they bowed out to
Navy, 30-28. The first period was
all Dalhousie, but the Tigers were
lax in checking their men in the
second, and allowed the Tars to
tie up the ball game. Navy outscored Dal 4-2 in overtime.

 

DAL WINS:
FROM MT. A.

In an exhibition game played at
the Dal gym last Tuesday evening,
Dalhousie Tigers turned back Mount
Allison hoopsters by a score of
65-25. The Dal attack clicked from
the start, and the Tigers had little
difficulty in outscoring their opponents.

The first period saw the Dal team
‘play nice offensive ball, while
Checking the Mount Allison squad
closely. With Babe Stewart as the

spearhead of the attack, the gold
and black team repeatedly broke
through the Mounties rearguard for
easy lay-up shots. Dal had a 21-6
lead at half time.

At the outset of the second period, Dal again started to roll up a
lead,

Bev Piers refereed.

Dalhousie—Bundy 6, Dunbrack 4,

' . Stewart 11, Hart 8, Wilson 13,

. A
Peas

Shanehouse 6, Smith 6, MacRitchie 1.

To Navy.
ose Game, 39-35

  

 

In a thriller last evening the Navy
Seniors edged out Dal Grads by a
‘score of 39-35. The Navy had a lead
of 17-9 at the half, but the Grads
tied it up and went ahead by one
point three times in the second
stanza, only to have the fighting
Navy team come back with quick
scores to eke out a win.

 

ARTS AND SCIENCE
WIN FIRST GAME

Arts and Science won the first
game in the best of three series to
decide the winner of the Dalhousie
Interfaculty Basketball League yesterday, when they handed Law a

28-26 setback. The game was won

in the last three seconds of play,
when Doug MacKean broke through
the Law defence to break at 26-all
deadlock.

The first part of the game was
closely contested, both teams matching basket for basket for almost the
entire first period. The Law squad
held a two point lead until the last
two minutes of the half, when the
Artsmen scored 7 points on long
shots and a foul to take a 19-14
lead as the half closed.

From the start of the second
period, the lawyers forced the play
and cut the Arts and Science lead
to within two points. However, the

Arts and Science team managed to |

keep their two point lead until about
a minute before the whistle, when
they added another basket by John
Fraser. In the final minute the
Law team deadlocked the score with
two lay-up shots, when time was
called with but three seconds of play
remaining. In this last three seconds the Arts and Science team
threw a long pass down the floor
which MacKean caught and caged.

Arts and Science—C. Fraser 10,
J. Fraser 8, Grant 2, Harrison, Hennigar, MacKean 6, Whyte, Burchell
2. otal 28.

Law—tTrites 14, Piercey 2, O’Bea,
Hanway 5, Storey 3, MacDonald 2,
Murray. Total 26.

 

By Kita Harrison

Although not quite recovered from
the trip last week-end, the Dal girls
managed to win their second game
last Tuesday night. This was against
Mt. A. and was the last game of the
Intercollegiate “series for the Dal
girls, U.N. B. now being Maritime
Champions.

The game Tuesday was quite slow
and not very interesting until the
last few minutes and Dal maintained a lead most of the time. During the last quarter, however, Mt.
A. put on a drive and it was only
the hard work of the Dal guards
and the shortage of time that kept
the visitors from winning the game.
The final score was 17-16, with C.
Sullivan high scorer for Dal and J.
MacFarlane for Mt. A.

 

Congratulations to the U.N.B.
girls on their good basketball. They
have one of the best teams that
has been seen around here for a
long time, and we are amazed that
they can get this crack team from
such a small number of girls. More
power to them.

 

We were glad to see that a very
successful party was held for the
visiting Mt. A.teams Tuesday night.
Dal has always been royally treated
up there and it was nice to do something for them.

 

Now that Intercollegiate basketball is over we expect to see the
Interclass League finished off.
Things stand even at present in
this league and there will probably

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

eee

Lose To U. N. B.

The much anticipated trip of the

more or less sucessfully last weekend. The game between Mount A.
and Dal was very fast and evenly
matched, at the end of the- first
half the Sackville team was leading
17-12, but a few well-chosen words
from Miss Wray spurred on the
team, especially Reta and Joan, to
outdo themselves and the Dal team
gained victory with the score 33-29.

On Saturday afternoon the Dal
Co-eds played the U.N.B. girls who
handed them a severe whitewashing to the tune of 42-23. The Dal
girls’ defense failed to click in the
tight spots which accounted for the
high score against them.

Both of these games were considerably rougher than the ones
refereed by Bev Piers. The refs
were accustomed to using boys’ rules
and a lot of fouling was let pass
unpenalized. This threw the Dal
team off considerably, especially, in
the U.N.B. games. Also the floors
of the Mount A. and U.N.B. gyms
are much smaller than our floor. At

U.N.B. the spectators were right to Foster,

the line, and the corners were rounded by the press of the crowd.

was the high scorer in the first
game, gaining 21 points for her
team. Joan Blackwood netted 16
for the Dal squad. Louise Dunphy
of U.N.B. ran up 25 points on Saturday while Joan and Carly scored
eight each for Dal.

ee

Shuttle Tourney

Success For Dal

In the Maritime Intercollegiate
Badminton Tournament held at the
Dal gym last Friday and Saturday,
Dalhousie players copped top honors.
This was the first time the meet had
been held at Dalhousie for several

|years, and under the capable direc
tion of Forbes Mountain, it proved
to be a huge success.

The tournament was participated
in by competitors from Mount Allison, Tech, King’s, and Dalhousie.
Maureen Allen, title holder for the
Maritime women’s singles crown,
was successful in retaining it. Delsworth Gibson, a Freshman, had little difficulty in winning the men’s
singles, while he and Forbes Mountain combined to win the men’s doubles, giving Dal three titles. Maureen
Allen, Dalhousie, and Ray Murphy
of King’s won out in the mixed doubles. Ruth Mitchell and Marion
Blakeney of Mount Allison were de
clared winners of the ladies doubles
title.

pat este GAZETTE
Mt. A. Co-eds Bow Down
To Dalhousie Girls, “17-16

Acai’ and Dal
‘Defeated By Y

Dal girls’ basketball team took place |

(111-5; 2.
Betty Nethercoat of Mount A.| yy

| Hutton) 45 2-5”; 2, Acadia, (Forbes, |
| Titus, Coulton, Barss); 8, Dalhousie |

 

 

 

In Swim Meet

 

Halifax Y.M.C. A. downed‘ teams
representing Dalhousie and Acadia
in a swimming meet held at the
Acadia Pool last Saturday evening.
The final scores were: Y.M.C.A. 49,
Dalhousie 29, Acadia 28. The results were as follows:

20 Yds. Free—1, Coulter, Acadia,
101-5; 2, MacKenzie, Dalhousie; 3,
Hutton, Y.M.C.A.

40 Yds. Free—1, Murphy, Y. M. C.
C., 234-5”; Forbes, Acadia; 3, Bagnall, Dalhousie.

100 Yds. Free—1, J. Fraser, Dalhousie, 67”; 2, Forbes, Acadia; 3
Titus, Acadia.

20 Yds. Breast—1, Ferguson, Dalhousie, 12”; 2, Campbell, Y.M.C.A.;
Barss, Acadia.

40 Yds. Breast—1, Campbell, Y.
M.C.A., ‘28 1-5”: 2, C. Fraser, Dalhousie; 8, Coulton, Acadia.

40 Yds. Back —1, Titus, Acadia,
25 4-5”; 2, Murray, Y. M.C. Bot 8,

Dalhousie. ;
20 Yds. Back — 1,

 

 

Ulys S és sailed f ward the sirens, wondrous fair and beguiling.
He filled his pipe with Picobac and passed temptation smiling.

@ This version cannot be verified. But any student, by pleasurable research, can verify the
fact that Picobac gives wonderful satisfaction
at a remarkably low price. It’s the pick of
Canada’s Burley crop and always a mild, cool,
sweet smoke — a far more agreeable bar
against distraction than Ulysses’ trick of stop
ping the ears! “
also packed in’ Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!” |

%

?

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH . 15¢
1-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN - 60c

:
|
'

 

 
     

 

 

Titus, Acadia, |
Murphy, Y.M.C.A.; 3.|
onroe, Dalhousie. |

Diving—1, West, Y.M.C.A.. 75.5:
2, Ferguson, Dalhousie, 65.5. |

Plunge —1, Bell, Acadia, 60 feet; | . |
2, Rothman, Dalhousie; 8, West, Y. | Tce ee eee
M.C.A.

80 Yds. Relay (Medley)—1, Y.M.
C. A., (Campbell, Murray, West, |

 

 

 

   

  

  

pane
=

EE

‘Meilsons
JERSEY
NUT

(Foster, Ferguson,
Fraser).
160 Yds. Relay--1, Y.M.C.A. (Hut
|
|
C. Fraser, |
i
Bog
ton, McDuff, Murphy, West), 1 G2 | a
'
|

Z|

    
 

     

3-8”; 2, Acadia (Forbes, Titus, Coulton, Barss); 8, Dalhousie (Walker,
Bagnall, J. Fraser, MacKenzie).

 

 

  

Arts and Science Win
Right To Meet Law

Arts and Science defeated Freshmen 21-15 in a scheduled game of |
the Dalhousie interfaculty basket- |
ball league Tuesday. By virtue of
this win, Arts and Science won the
right to meet Law in a total score
two game series for the championship.

Graham of the Frsehmen led all
Scorers with 8 points, closely ‘followed by Clarence Fraser and Wilf
Burchell with 6 apiece.

Freshmen — MacNeil 3, Mosher,
Graham 8, C. Smith 4, Green, James,
R. Smith, Fetterley.

Arts and Science—C,. Fraser 6, J.
Fraser 2, Grant 3, Burchell 6, Harrisoh 2, Whyte 2, MacKean.

  
 

FINEST ROASTED FILBERTS
JERSEY MILK CHOCOLATE

Enjoy a bar daily
Neilson’:

    
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  

aS

UR "30th ANNIVERSDS

DEPENDS NOT ON HOW MUCH YOU
SPEND BUT ON HOW YOU SPEND IT!

From coast to coast college men have found
it good business to be Tip Top Tailored!

Hand-Cut and Custom Saieus Deolers
Tailored-to-Your- ¢ 9 7 5 O and
i e Everywhere

   
 

Neate + Mt. Allison—Tweedie 10, Tucker,
_ Gardiner 6, Hicks 1, Stewart, Titus,

  
  
 
  

be a game this Saturday. Watch
the notice. boards for announce
   

ae

Peacock ments. _ |

: , (pe Ate) A edt
sett! eS *, f Pa é ; { ark
* ;

 

422 BARRINGTON STREET

 
  
  

4 iit ga: |

y - . , ‘ie t ’ + : 7) \ 24 4

ee abe ; Oe a
Be ny Le Vain

i*
oa

 

; .
h) ny ,
Fld, 4) 1 " a , .
: T : ‘ } if

© sak,

St Walt Gent elo he MR Tab) cas) ee so

UL

if Ber Ls
Saas be

eo

      

” 7, ¥ ‘
#4 6.) ae :
Bee ett pe a rit gy On a ee ap lt al ng 5) ee I yg pe tg
Be ope ete A J Tn ee rr ee t
