 
 

   
  
 
 
  

i oe. Robert Irwin of Nova ey
‘ Lt.-Gov. Murray MacLaren, P.C.,
--G.M.G., M.C., of New Brunswick.
9 n - LtGov. GD. DeBlois of Prince
__ Edward Island.
ae Premier Angus L. Macdonald of
aie . ‘Nova Scotia.
nv __ Premie A. A. Dysart of New Bruns
 
 

   

ie 1

 

 

is ty Pre nie S _ Thane Campbell of Prince
___ Edward Island

| Governors

eS au ‘es ibe

eee Bubitene Manager of

Doris Margeson, President of the
_ Alumnae Aséociation:

 
   
    
        
    
    
 

  
     
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
 
 
   
  
    
  
  

—

* An office was opened in the/all young people in Canada.
: Cae Room in the Arts Building| here we have the magazine followat Studley and was subsequently} ing that policy and giving an incen
 

HALIFAX, N. S., DECEMBER 5, 1939

 

Campaign Impetus Increas
The Dalhousie Financial Campaign was launched at a
ing g held on April bth, 1939, of a stil of gentlemen who

ar of Gapelnies on t Ralsviaes 14th, 1939.
At the meeting on nse 5th, the following officers and

So--You Want
To Write

An exclusive opportunity for
young Canadians to write is being
offered by the “New Advance Magazine”. It is sponsoring a short
story contest—a contest which is
open to all young Canadians who
have never written a short story or

thought they would like to write

a | ue. No competition from profes
it ional writers for commercial publicatior

tions will intervene. This is disy a contest for a young person

| inte rested i in young Canadian life.
| The story is to be a 1500 to 3000
| word ‘story. The contest closes Feb
Yruary 29th. The judges are E. K.

| Brown, Professor English at the
‘University of Toronto, and Howe

Martin, Editor of the Canadian
Bookman. Posters will be placed in
the various buildings at Dal, with
ie reat and rules. The prizes
are: first place, $25; second, $10;
third, $5.

_ The New Advance, Canada’ s Na
  
     
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
 

 
   

+ south organizations of all kinds. It

y. €: MacDonald, Dean of the Tare seeks to be a publication by the
- School; R. J. R. Nelson; J. P. Con-| youth, for.the youth and of the
-nolly, K.C.; G. Ray Smith; Miss| youth. It solicits expression of ideas

9n economic, recreational social, re
ligious and cultural questions from! Ey
So

; iy _ moved to the Forrest Building where} tive to young writers, and an im
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
 

. it now is.
pa ig B-6837.

Continued on Page Five

TPR re has been made to
it members of Class 1931, Arts &
Science, i in a letter sent out by their
e Secretary, R. Gordon Harris,
sy 2 : BSe., of Halifax, that collection of
their Graduation Gift and Class
_ Memorial has been completed and
has reached a figure ranking very
high among class gifts to the Unieyrousity in recent years. —
In February, 1931, three months
er. Ss yefore graduation, one of the most
brilliant and highly respected students at Dalhousie met tragic death.
i: : iheaene Fraser, son of Prof. and
_ Mrs. H. J. Fraser, of Truro, only
EB onours man in Chemistry in Class
731, suffered severe burns while enic oh laboratory work and passed
y. His untimely death cast a
vy shadow over the entire Unisity, and many high tributes were
to his memory.
re Sestnation Gift, the class

  
 
  
  
  
   

P. Walsh, and J. C. Arnell.

The telephone number] petus to the development of young

writers.

pa SCHOLARSHIP FOR DAL

ranging from $4 to $30 and totalling
$929. Mr. Harris, the Life Secretary, now announces that $712 of
this amount was collected, as well as
$155 from caution deposit balances
signed over and $240 raised from
other sources, making a total of
$1107 received as a result of over
eight years of work.

The prize is awarded each spring
on the recommendation of a committee of all Chemistry professors
at the University, to a student in
Advanced Chemistry who shows unusual proficiency and promise, to be
held when he or she returns for the
final year.

$25 prize has already been
awarded each year for six years
past, the winners to date being
Messrs. W. B. Beazley, N. A. D.
Parlee, J. R. Dacey, A. C. Topp, J.
In future the prize will be around $45,
which is the amount produced annually in dividends from the high| grade investments now held in trust

oF Class ’31 by the hibit

 

 

sing

N. F. C. U.S.
Conference Slated
..For McGill Univ.

“The biennial meeting of the
National Federation of Canadian
University Students is to be held at
McGill University instead of at the
University of Ottawa,” stated John
H. McDonald, President, N.F.C.U.S.,
in an exclusive interview with the
(McGill Daily). The reason given for
this change, claimed the president,
we

 

                          

:
Ottawa could not accommodate the |ally refuted by the achievements of

representatives who are expected to
gather from practically every University in Canada,

The question of the agenda for
the meeting was also raised and the
President stated that a letter had
been sent to each Council requesting that suitable topics for such
agenda be considered on every

campus, and that as wide publicity
be given as possible to this point.

“Only by antensive discussion of the
possible agenda topics by as many
students ag possible on each campus
and mature consideration by the
various councils can a representative and vital agenda be drawn up.
This matter is now being considered and the tentative agenda should
be ready for circulation throughout
the Dominion within the next few
days” stated McDonald.
Discuss Co-operation

The possibility of co-operation
with the C. S. A. and the S. C. M.
was also discussed, and the President pointed out that the Moderation

Continued on Page Four

 

Single Student
rrom Alberta

To Jack MacDonald and his native
Albertan heath, go the apologies and

condolences of the Gazette which|

misrepresented the facts on Nov. 17,
to say that no Albertan’s were
registered this year. The statistics
confused us, Jack. It was Arts —

Science that had no one from Aber- |

hart’s bailiwick.

First Word From
Walter Murphy

November 9, 1939.

Paris today functions—but only in
low gear. This slowing of tempo is
all that one notices at first as indicating the presence of war. Certainly the faces of the people in the
street bear no trace of strain. War
takes on reality only when one
comes face to face with the disruption of the ordinary business of
living that mobilization and the
other exigencies of war have brought
about. You intend to leave the subway at the station nearest your
destination and find that the station
has been closed. The reason — reduced traffic and depletion of personnel. You walk the length of a
whole street in search of a drugstore, or a barber shop, or even a
restaurant before you finally come
to one that is open. The other four
that you passed are closed — “the

(Continued on page four)

 

No. 9

 

ree Delegates To St. Anne's

BARTON’ $: VOTE
ASSURES C. S. A.
REPRESENTATION

At a poorly attended but important meeting Sunday the

Council of the Students brought Dalhousie into the Canadian
Student Assembly by passing the local executive’s budget, the
necessary step in sending a delegation of three from this college

to the National Conference at

St. Anne de Belleville—a town

thirty miles outside Montreal. By the deciding vote of president

 

Former Student
‘To Australia

| The opinion,
s, that Dalhousie’s glory

belongs only to the past is occasion- |

 

         

 

outstanding Dalhousians of the

present,

E. B. (Ben) Rodgers, Arts ’33,

honours student in Economics and : : . | ing factor in Canadian University

Political Science, has recently been
appointed as secretary to accompany
C. J. Burchell, new Canadian Commissioner to Australia when he
leaves shortly to take up his post.

Mr. Rodgers most recent accomplishment is that of writing, in ¢ollaboration with his former mentor,
R. A. McKay, the book “Canada
Looks Abroad”.

After graduating from Dahousie,
in 1933, Rodgers spent some years
in London where he attended the

London School of Economics which | |,
is associated with the University of |
Here he received his Ph.D.

London.
and later was associated with the
| International Relations Staff
Chatam House.

On his return to Canada, after a
| year at Dalhousie, he accepted a
position in the Department of External Affairs from which he is now
| being sent out as Mr. Burchell’s
| Secretary.
) Mr. Rogers
| Edward Island.

 

 

hails from Prince
He recently mar-|

:
occasionally voiced

at

 

 

Barton,

‘ada in their work for Canadian
| Unity.

 

Out of its hiding place te have
its previous misdeeds at Dalhousie
aired, the C.S.A. now becomes a
recognized campus activity, the
| council sufficiently convinced of
;

!

sincerity of the new local executive and the important nature of
the national movement as a unify
life.

This season’s work of the new
executive was gratefully climaxed at
the Sunday session when the debate
on its budget caused the most exciting division in the council’s 1939
annals, Seven members apart from

Dalhousie took her place
| with the other Universities in Can
scripts

GLEE CLUB NOTICES

Any individuals or society or fraternity that wishes to put on a turn
at the Variety Show which the Glee
Club is putting on for the Services
about the second week in February,
please apply to Henry Reardon.

 

   
    
      

 

Persons who have taken part in
Glee Club shows at any time during
the past five years, and wish to
have their points counted up for a
Gold “D” are asked to hand in their
names to Henry Reardon this week.

CAROL SERVICE IN
KING’S CHAPEL

The S.C.M. has received permission to use the King’s College
Chapel at 8.30 Sunday evening, Dec.
17th, for a Christmas Carol Service.
A group of ten or twelve students
has agreed to practice the carols
and act as a choir at the College.
All students are invited to attend.
In many universities the carol service is a _ well-established institution, and we would like to make it

that at Dalhousie.

 

he
NOTICE

Dalhousie will send three delegates to the National Conference of
the Canadian Student Assembly at
MacDonald College, St. Anne de
Bellevue. A committee consisting of
one member from each of the Students’ Council, C. S. A. Executive,
and Faculty will make the selection.

Students wishing to be considered as Dalhousie delegates are
asked to submit their names to
the C.S. A. temporary executive
per Jackie Cahan) not later than
Wednesday noon.

CONFERENCE ON
CHRISTIANITY
Some four hundred students from

the colleges of North America will
meet at Toronto University, from

the president were present in the| December 27 to January 1, to dis
early part of the afternoon, but Art
Ormiston’s departure before the voting took place left only six voting
members.

At the division the count was
ree Ayes and three Nays.
Barton in despair, having been assured by Murray Rankin that there
Was no way out, murmured a hesitant affirmative, and the C. S. A.
supporters, realizing Fred to have
been in a difficult spot, congratulated him on his decision, which
sends three Dalhousians to the National Conference for a sum which
works out at twenty-five cents for
each student at the university.

 

 

a former student of this university.

‘ried Miss Frances Morrison, of the | Mrs, Rodgers will accompany him to

| Halifax Conservatory of Music, also

Australia.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ie A ie x
Ec io iH D

i oe Ha INS Uc i
“ | * “ ric Pe
ih r

th 2

 

ei

snes =
eg gf

TIL

Me 2

oe iE
‘(

ion

 

 

 

esses

cuss the World Mission of Christianity Today and Tomorrow. The
gathering will be a consultation
having two phases: the acquisition
of relevant facts about the world

Mr. | and the world-wide Christian fellow
ship; and the exploration of the re
sponsibility of our movements in
relation to these facts. Study material has been circulated and

groups of students are meeting on
the local campuses in preparation
for the Conference.

The Committee in charge is composed of representatives of the
Cana-dian Student Christian Movement, the Foreign Mission Council,
the National Christian Council and
the Student Volunteer Unions of the

(Continued on Page Four)

&
CANDIDATES CHOSEN

In its second session of the season
Dalhousie virile (?) Arts & Sci
Society, met last Tuesday to elect
Lawson and Windebank as Student
Council candidates and absorb the
verbal lances of one Bill Hagen, who
charged the Society will being part
of the conspiracy to repress the
aspiring spirits of freshmen.

Following President McKeigan’s
calmer explanation of the real situation other opinions were heard,
notably that of Mr. McIntosh, who
assured the meeting that only a
minority of the incomers were disgruntled.

Question at issue was the new
system whereby student’s fees go to
one of three (Arts & Science, Commerce, Engineers) Societies instead
of the class organization as formerly. McKeigan’s plan to bring
together to finance class projects and
parties seemed to most of the meeting to be a just arrangement, but
to Mr. Hagen it was a “rooking”
pure and simple.

Letter’s of thanks were received
from Jim Purves and Dewar McLeod
who had received baskets of fruit
(with yoyos concealed therein) from
the Society during their respective
recent convalescences.

 

 
      

rh
Plas ‘F. ~ Of

a one

ier : 3 $ — FOREIGN POLICY
es ee Bienes (1933-1939)
as - B-3021. Ea Hitler + was to pay a State

   
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
  
   
   
    

e Aree St, Halifax, Visit to England. Armed at Calais,
rae he found a British destroyer waiting
ic cine of ‘he to carry him over to Dover.

“I’m not travelling in this!” he
proclaimed. “I want the Queen
Mary.”

“But your excellency—”

The Queen Mary, or we march!”

The harassed officials, desperately
anxious not to mar the visit at its
outset, hurriedly sent to Southampton for the Queen Mary, and Hitler
was transported to Dover.

“Ts this the royal train!” he demanded.

“No, your excellency.”

“Then get it.”

Rat’? |

“The royal train, or we march!”

So the royal train was secured,
and he arrived in London, and was
driven to Claridge’s.

. and to
_ssiom that liberty in the
ymbol than

ty 0 F the : “48 ame | their repremas eon value of this particular
open to doubt. There is even less ecoliberty. The control of monopoly capital
3 the destiny of the vast majority of the

  
  
   
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
   
 
     
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
    

“T don’t stay here!” he said. “I
Peck ee ants of this country in such a manner) vant Buckingham Palace.”
reeks: = to render the vestiges of political freedom} «py, _
they may enjoy a matter of no great conse-| «Buckingham Palace, or we

- quence. What freedom is left? The answer is} marchy”

freedo a of the mind. It is this that makes the The king solved this difficulty

versity the last bulwark of a debased de-| yith his usual tact, and retired to

- moeracy. For it is in the university that the| windsor. Then Hitler called for the
| best. opportunity is available for that spirit of| \¢icial programme.

free enquiry which alone can lead to the full “This won’t do,” he said. “This

. free l which democracy should offer. — afternoon I want to see Arsenal play

a es totalitarian states have provided a pre- Wolverhampton Wanderers at Stam
pa aia which shows the length to which the|ford Bridge.

last shreds of liberty may be extinguished.| “But, your excellency, that’s im
- Germany, which once led the world in the| Possible. Arsenal is playing at

search for truth, has debauched its once proud | Manchester today.

ie ties to. ‘gexvile instruments of state} “Arsenal and Wolverhampton

i Free speech has naturally been stifled, | Wanderers at Stamford Bridge this
what i is just as bad, the methods and ob-| afternoon, or we march!”

jects of ue research have been distorted} “All right, damnit, you’ll have to

a premium has been placed not on|march—we can’t upset the football

_ but on falsehood and deception. Their] season for you!”

ry is the ce of the democratic be
 

" ts la tae of rigid recent of free} POST NAUSEUM
1 there is food for thought in the prece
ebone. Are the universities of this} °" NEW PIG IS FRESH HAM.

ying to follow the example of the

all ideas. that run counter | The other day I chanced to meet

? Are our universities go-| An old acquaintance on the street—

act i in. ‘such a position that the A very ancient garter-snake—

: to the individual mind? Are Who looked as though he’d had a

ities to be allowed to continue in| break.

irch for truth or are they, too, to be-|1 asked him how he looked so neat:

me “O tools of a mili itary dictatorship? He said: “At least I’m on my feet,

are not just the figments of imagination] With linen fresh, and drinking rye,

a possibilities. Consider the storm of| I’m working now on Dal’s new sty.”

which greeted the utterances of Pro
| Adair of McGill when he dared to criti-| 1 wonder’d long just who would hire

mire,
But then I thought of who got bit
By Sty and Zoo’s impulsive wit,
And in the names upon the list
I noticed one was gravely miss’d,
And that was Med’cine’s pride and
joy,
Inane as sin, eternal boy,
A heller-famed, a campus rake ,
Oh, who but he could hire the
snake?

"Perhaps a dictatorship can happen

me Secdon. of opinion is the essence of de_mocracy. It is implicit in the idea of His

_ Majesty’s Loyal Opposition. Yet if a man
es whose life work has been the study of history
a i 1n o. _eliver: his views on ie ls ee

  

upposed to ‘be fighting. eosin of
RM tary secrets is understandable, but it borHis Vie on the inconsistent to say this is a war
ead inst tyranny and at the same time censor
tyrannical manner the impressions of a
whose facts are supposed to be reliable
d who desires to enlighten the public on a
yy uestion. Can it be anything but hypo-|, 8
al to say we are fighting for democracy |;
when we have autocracy at home?
; ae to Meet a pre c is a
et De 0 . edl amet t is the function Would claim me as their satellite.
a of pe university in these troubled times to|y,, belt, watra “Kind: Wa, poasces
Bes ee d to the idemic integrity and freedom of the
. mind e

This shade of Pope instructs by art
That has a whiff of farmer’s cart;
He buys his wit in bottles brown,
And gets his news from snakes

ish I knew a frightful oath,

*d hurl it at his head, and both
The campus queen and campus
fright

pert

of its ability. If a man offend pore

S| Por eve ds a fool;
a =n ry campus needs a fool;
| eres beliefs let us rather side) 414 whisky wit and bloodshot rye

Give stench and grace to Dal’s new

sty.

ae whose maxim was, “I do not
with a word that you say, but I will dee death your right to say it.”

If hiesadicns of thought and the ey
not to be rent asunder, three things mus
e: (1) All Boy ae eset presented NOTICE TO ALL
of solving a particular pro
2) Tho student act be ar Prob] CAMPUS HEADS
his own conclusion. (3) He must be}| Will each and every head of the
ute have the courage of his convictions. organizations onthe campus prepare
of these are easy. If real freedom is| their questions and problems they
D ni ms will not be rigid but will| wish to have taken to the National
; t of new facts. When the | organizations on the campus prepare
are removed and the truth,| programs are extended to the folif bl “ is revealed, then| lowing societies: Newman Club,
ers in this ee $.C.M., Medical, Law, Engineering,
oward rs new free-| Arts & Science, Dentistry, D.A.A.C.,
a eh to play | D.G.A.C., Delta Gamma, Commerce,
e freedom, but rot Sociology, Glee Club,

 

 

 
 
   

of ae

WE MUST ACT!

America has a rendezvous with destiny! As the
minutes tick off, the twenty-four decision respite given
Canada ebbs slowly towards the inevitable conclusions
of the American ultimatus. The present status in
Canadian-American relations cannot be tolerated further. In order to make clear the eternal rightness of
the American position, the Y. D.News herewith gives
a review ofthe amazing list of atrocities which have
strained American patience to the breaking point.

Americans who are proud to share in the glorious
heritage which is the blood right of all pure descendants of the Mayflower stock, will glory in the great
sacrifice and nobility of the men who go to make up
the line of steel on the border, ready to fight and die
for the land of their fathers, and to erase forever the
humiliating terms of Canadian-American treaties:

1, Recent military maneuvres prove that without a
doubt any ambitious power might intrench itself
in the Canadian Rockies while the Dominion is
busy with its European adventure, and march on

to encircle America.

American sheep in Montana near. the Canadian
border are crowded and without sufficient living
space. Across the border lies tremendous grazing area. Shall we stand and watch our sheep be
crowded out of existence?

Canadian sheep occasionally stray across the line
and inbreed with American sheep. The result is
an inferior race of half Canadian sheep. Can
this go on?

The Dionne Quints, so dear to American hearts,
are denied the privilege of American education
due to a ruthless policy of segragation in what
is practically a concentration camp.

Canadians are violating our border by throwing
spot lights on the American Niagara Falls.

American water turns Canadian dynamos at the
Falls. Our resources make money for non-Americans.

Our national honor is defiled every time an Amer
ican citizen is searched and examined like a com-| &

mon criminal when he crosses the border.

American minority groups in Canada are denied
extra-territorial rights.

No red-blooded American can stand for this situation any longer. While the Y. D. News is still in favor
of a peaceful solution of the problem, it reiterates that
no solution can be made without the granting of a 200
mile corridor to Alaska. Americans there are cut off
from the homeland by a foreign power. If Canada
refuses we must only assume that she intends a program of economic attack that will drain us of our life
blood. Before that every loyal American: will shoulder
a rifle and march to our liberation!

Late dispatches say that an American expeditionary
force is forming in Alaska to battle its way southward.
Secret pro-Americans:in Vancouver are being armed
and drilled for Liberation Day. Let us all realize our
destiny as Americans, bearers of a heritage and tradi
tion greater than international boundaries or diplomatic palaver.

—From the “Yale Divinity News”, Yale University.

 

THE NEW CO-OP STORE

The green, snub-nosed truck seen zooming about
Halifax of late labelled “CO-OP” belongs to the new
co-operative store. A store which represents an IDEA
in ACTION, is a local enterprise owned and controlled
by local people, with a policy to patronize home
products and thus rebuild maritime industries. The
Co-operative store differs from others in this, that its
surplus earnings will be returned to store patrons in
proportion to their purchases.

In the Co-operative Movement certain defined
principles have been found successful and are in
general use. Membership is voluntary and unlimited.
Business is done on a strictly cash basis. Labor is
fairly treated. Current market prices are charged.
Adequate reserves are set aside. One member has one
vote regardless of number of shares held. Return on
capital is limited. After operating expenses, reserves
and a fund for education has been set aside, the remainder of earnings are distributed as patronage
rebates.

Members of the store have direct control of it.
They elect a board of directors who find and appoint
experts to run it. Employees have as much right as
anyone to buy shares and vote on policy.

The co-operative store is only one of many forms
of cooperative effort. Nova Scotia abounds with other
successful enterprises, At wharves, at pitheads, in
rural communities men and women congregate to discuss hopefully and intelligently possibilities of applying
co-operation and their problems. The study club is
an important and ever spreading feature. “Read and
be ready” is their slogan. Analyze, organize, then
take action. And so lobster factories have been built,
lumber mills and canneries, hospitalization schemes put
in force. The limits of application are the limits of
imagination.

People from poor districts as well as more prosperous
ones finance these enterprises through credit unions
in many cases, proving that self-help by co-operation
can be and is the solution to the problem facing
thousands of maritime people.

~

ny nee he
Lo OE eae

“How would I look on a Christmas tree?”
“ Almost as attractive as 100 Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

Serve
FARMERS’ ICE CREAM

¥V a2a ¥

FARMERS’ LIMITED ‘
HALIFAX - Nova Scotia fi .

16 Shopping Days Till Xmas! |

 

 

   
       
      
   
     
      
         
       
     
   
      
     

Do your Christmas shopping at
the Gazette advertisers. They’ll be
glad to help you find just what you
want. Patronize those who patronize us! For College wear or for
: the Dance are better at
BLAKELEY’S WALLACE’S. |
J
for Lunches The Student’s Shoe Store :
Dinner
and Confectionery W |
allace Bros. |
° OSs

: “Specialists in Fitting”
Join Your Classmates!

438 SPRING GARDEN ROAD 415 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

    

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties, of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B. Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music. Bngincering: Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics,

Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses, 4 cee standing, leading to degrees of

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

 

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

  

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about

160.00
in the B.Sc. ' late

course about $190.00 a year,

  
     

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women,
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

Use THE GAZETE ADS, That’s What They Are For.

 
DE ree ae tee es view
; ’ ea Tt} rs ow oe 9 Ahi é he!
wd a i? Jad ial cet at Sia”
: Raf i) ’ eee x? a Fa ae - ' ; : t
€: . m ee we ae * ‘ 4 /
Pays f ' 7
, ~ ¥ 2 2g ¢ ;

Wik

o—--——— Ho

 

CHAPTER VII

SAY IT WITH PLOWERS? WE |
SUPPLY THE BODIES
Rufus Rayne Enterprises Inc. |

/

the » »

, es, “a its — darn thoughtless and iil
ie eres of the British Navy to

ake the BIG BATTLESHIPS go

t just when the lil’ lady had a

e with one of the n-i-c-e officers;

nu i euen the time came she did al
ht for herself anyway.
‘Beware of the BIG, STRONG,
SILENT type .. . they generally
have the physicalnecessities for a
le pt ot ae and when as open up

: ed . how’s it

eo Hip and stuff for the
TWELVE lucky girls who became
n ew Phi Phi’s on Saturday night .
a y our reporter is told that a Sank
et . time was had by all including some
be Oe of the escorts . . . the censorship
; ‘3 reached out gud wrapped its
a u gly tentacles around this “column”
- too, co we can’t mention names, but
ys how we'd love to...
pass The week hasbeen ful of inactiow ; with the exception of some
‘perennials all have gone into the
de musty tomes, seeking knowledge
which they’ll only give right back) ¢
, , to the profs who know all about it
' ac so why the hell waste time .

  
   
  

 

estate

third

BLACKOUTS

Frances Anderson, Ist year Medicine—“I love them! Blackouts, I
mean! I’ve never been out during
a blackout. You see, it’s this way
—I’m scared in the d— No! I don’t
mean—(Laughs wildly).

Lou Lawton, 2nd year Medicine—
“The case for blackouts is about half
and half. You can get a lot of work
done in the light, but then
- Marjorie MacKenzie, Arts "42 —
“Oh, they’re good now—they last for
half an hour, instead of only a few
minutes!

Mary Johnson, Arts ’42—Was surprised into saying she agreed ‘with
Miss MaeKenzie, but refused further
comment,

Bill Shaffner, Dentistry *]
wouldn’t care to voice my opinion.
Under certain circumstances -they
might be all right — ask John
Vaughan!” (Columnist’s note: A
lead for the Little Pig?)

Bill MacQuarrie, 2nd year Medicine—‘Pretty black, aren’t they ?’’

“Corky” Koretsky, 3rd year Law

—“They can be a hell of a fine

thing, depending on where you are
and who you’re with—otherwise the
-| goodam things are a nuisance.”

 

Course the 4th year meds don’t seem (Columnist’s note: Orchids to
to be worrying and “Cuddles”! Corky for his subtlety).
we oe goes merrily on his Wea: Don Williams, Engineering —
big “Blackouts? (with alarm). What

do you know? Oh! Good thing, in
1! their own quiet way. You know, I
thought you knew something when
you asked—”
| _ Claude Leighton, 1st year Medi; cine—“Great stuff—makes an awful
©! mess of things, though.”
Columnist’s note: ? ? ? ).
Murray Gould, Engineering —
“Some fun!”
MERRY CHRISTMAS
and a
HAPPY NEW YEAR.

  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
 
    

gs ning
r hooks | n him so. Sued yan
vith two strikes again you...
— betehe _this makes good reading in
Hi Wolfville .
i mt We aso “Faithful ForA ove as a theme song to certain

Dalhoushousie

or
Pen Pictures in the Smoke

| Game”.
a heared is wonderful to be so

Teen Shirley Kirkpatrick and Dick
iy , Murphy are asked for opinions in
A ae. third estate”? or is the report
3 . Say 99 last week — by Forrest
i campus views on life remain happy.”
Then why should he chase “stuff
: 4 “from the Bronx.” We take it he’s
a a following his old “sucker’s policy.”
Billie got married, Jack!
? _ “Somewhere, Somewhere a light is
Ree ” Could it be Digby’s red
iz _ nose, Kissy ?
ss '‘We wonder how the blonde banker
‘Joan is getting along with our New__ foundland War Chanter.
Lawson looks great on the hockey
aaa ny field, but Betty swings a mean stick.
Bey Es, _ Rather hard on the shins, et Butch!
hen oo Not satisfied with being a football
x oe hero, we hear Bird is learning a new
; aa 4 method of attack and whatta conm at iy ‘trast—piano lessons!
“How I hate Sunday nights -at
home” says Harvey. That red-headed boy is giving competition. How’s
- Willie. doing, D. C.?
Fs And this has no connection with

   
  
  
  
 
 
     
   
  
    

is Rufus

This Rayne playing
Santa Claus. Which proves that if
you can fool some one all the time
there are a lot of fools or what was
good enough for father is good
enough for me. What’s under your
beard Santa? Rufus is making eyes
at Joan Gloomytrees. He will collapse whén she makes eyes at him.
Cut this out and pin it over your
roommates bed. If he keeps you
awake Rufus Rayne keeps everybody
‘awake. Rufus expects to come down
Sherriff Hall chimney. He must be
crazy. He coudn’t even get through
the door.

oat
So

 

Conversation waxed hot and furious in front of Shirreff Hall the
other night. Tch! Tch! Connie B.
Ain’t you ’shamed, talking to Mitchell like that?

Did you hear about the two gals
at the Hall who each got a letter on
the same day, and both signed
“Bernie.” Can it be there are two
“Bernies”, or is he just doubling up
on his letter-writing ?

Flash—Two British Naval Officers
think that this College must be O.K.
While walking up South Street they
had, a shouting distance conversa
© Apologies for the column but if
people will stay at home there’s no

‘ Ws we can get them in our little
_ ple ayground—

= | And now r “The a ,

‘the men were attracted by a gar
| tion with Helen and Joan. It seems

of| ment waving from one of the Hall||

The wind howled and piercingly
shreiked aroundthe rattley old stone
building of the Library. Inside
candles guttered and smoked (Playres) books fell and chairs scraped
as Fizzleque and two other Frosh
vainly searched the calendar to discover what classes they were taking.
Slowly that lofty senior or eternal
freshette Miss Gloomystrees siddled
up to the three and giggled,

“The night before exams and
you don’t know what courses you

are taking, why, ah declare, yo’
all is goin’ to get plowed.”
“Where can I hire a stand in?”
wailed one of the frosh being influenced by a columnist’s version of
college life. But not Fizzleque, that
man of action, that bold jelly-fish
in six delicious flavors, he grabbed
Gloomytrees by the eye-lashes and
heaved her through a window. There
was a tinkle of glass and empty
beer bottles and all three clattered
down stairs for a smoke; or something.

Gloomytrees shook the broken
glass from her hair, applied fresh
grease paint, and dashed over to the
basement of the Arts Building to
join Freddy Barnone and the “Filthy
Fifteen who were holding a special
meeting to have exams annuled by
sending a white paper to King
Carol. Barnone sat with his head
in a haze of Blue smoke and the
Filthy Fifteen were jabbering like
a monkey house on visitor’s day, or
Sherriff Hall at Supper time.

“Order, Order,’ shouted Barnone,
who appeared to be in charge.

“Beer on the house,’ answered
the mob without a lull.
acknowledged this request and put
it down in the D.A.A.C. budget as

miscellaneous.

“Moved that a committee of DuVenom and Prof. Binnit be appointed to write all exams for frosh and
Kissy Cameron. All in favor say
nerts,” quoth Barnone the statesman
and peepul’s fran.

“Aw Nerts,’ growled the Filthy
Fifteen who were now playing follow the leader.

A wet codfish suddenly arked thru
space and found its mark with an
echoing slap on Shalli KirkPetquick’s left cheek. As the Filthy
Fifteen warmed their hands on
KirkPetquick’s virmillion visage a
horrible laugh rang out and duVenom’s leering sarcastic puss appeared at a grilled port hole in the
roof.

“It’s you,” gasped Barnone and
collapsed with a noise that broke
five windows.

“Or a reasonable  fascimile,”
sneered duVenom ashe extracted
bits of plowed frosh from his
mustache with a bayonet. “Sorry to
see you leave so soon.”

With these words a trap door
opened sending the Filthy Fifteen
and Rufus Rayne plunging downwards into the murky waters of an
underground river. As soon as the
Filthy Fifteen hit the water they
clambered aboard the rotund Rufus
for the trip down stream. It was
dark and gloomy down there so they
kept up there spirits by singing
“Old Man River” and punching
their improvished ferry-boat in the
stomach to make him honk.

It might have helped if you
hadn’t learnt to read. Where is
the Filthy Fifteen going? Where
are they taking us? Will Oscar
the Beaver double-cross Reddy
the Fox. Read about next year’s
Xmas number in the blue tights
and What’s under Santa’s
beard? Beery Xmas!

 

 

 

 

GAUVIN & GENTZEL

Special Rates to Students
24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone B-6992

Barnone

say 99

The time has come when democratic Studleyites must take their
noses out of their bottles and bend
them to the grindstone, thus joining
their enslaved brothers (and sisters)
of the Med School who have been
On The Job for some time. Let me
present the tragedy to you.

An otherwise reasonable young
man, his chest unconsciously swelling (put to shame by his head?)
signs his name to a manuscript
which allows him to try his luck at
becoming one of the profession he
has admired. Ah! he has but seen
as through a glass, darkly! He has
noble thoughts of Saving Lives —
for what, he is usually uncertain.
When he has entered he will be told
that his duty is clear and that he
need know no reasons. He lays
down the Poison Pen and is happy
in the belief that he has"entered a
Bright and Shining Era of his life,
the Golden Age Resurrected. (Does
it lay an egg! not gloden).

With about forty other boys (an:
perhaps some misguided girls) he!
goes to his first lecture to be told|
that henceforth he must live an Ex.|
emplary Existence, he must shave |
daily, keep his hands pink and clean,
his nails immaculate and his hair
brushed front and back. He is further informed that of fifty candidates about forty will be permitted
to survive first year, thirty-five
second, etc., ad nauseam. That nauseam packs oomph!

Second lecture brings to light the
facts that he must work four times
as hard as ever before and that reasonable exam marks will not gain
him his M.D. without certain other
essentials. In short he must lead a
life seeond in diligence, merit and
purity only to those of the top-ranking Disciples.

His third teacher will probably
counsel him not to be a mere “Guttripper” (no connection with any
type of swing music) but to devote
his Soul and Talent to (softly and
reverently) Science and the pursuit
of Truth.

At this point Our Hero no doubt
wishes himself snug in bed back in
Dear Old Cape Breton, where ignorance is bliss and Li’l Adolf promises
no Christmas presents. But if,
after having been failed in his first
Anatomy Quizz, his spirit is not
crushed, and if he gets safely back
from the Pier End whither he has
betaken himself to End It All, he
will probably come back fired with a
New Determination and consoled
with thoughts of no more Anatomy

 

 

, tests till Christmas.

This Valiant Mortal, you will
agree, though he may never have
rescued a Beautiful Shirreff Holler
by ascending a chromium plated
rope ladder and carrying her off in
a Pearl Inlaid Buick, though he
may never even have learned to control with dexterity a tournament
YoYo, should at least be given a
putty medal and be allowed to Live
In Hope of joining those ranks of
White-clad heroes who, through
rank Sins Of Omission, have never
been dubbed Coeur de lion.

Now you have been told and will
doubtless lose sleep. But Mourn
Not, for we like it in Medicine and
your own minor trials are very near,
O Studleyites! May you have your
usual unmerited good luck even as
we in our Ordeals. Merry Christmas! (Ghastly time of year to start
saying that!)

 

Visit Our Oyster Bar

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK

Big Double Bill —

You'll Enjoy It!

 

 

AREHE

 

Dalhousie's «

who's who

«

John Horace, Dickey, born in Ed
monton, Alberta, came to Nova
Scotia at the early age of two years,
so he doesn’t remember very much
of the Golden West. John received
his early education at Morrison
School Antigonish and at St. Mary’s

‘College, from which he graduated in

1936, coming to Dal in the fall of
the same year The Dal Law school
somehow neglected his early education and John was forced to take another year’s Arts before joining the
class of Law ’40 at the Forrest
Campus.

 

 

College men, call at COLWELL’S
on Barrington Street for all your
clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

Our new stock is now oaubatots.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accessories,

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

 

REe
eK

Canadas Finest

VIRGINIA
CIGARETTE

106 and 25¢

 

John has been particularly active
in senior Hockey, Sodales, the Glee
Club and the Law Society. He has
played senior hockey every year of
his Dal existence except one when
he was Sports Editor of the Gazette
which is a full time job. He was a
high scorer on Dal’s ill-fated hockey
team last year but expects better
things from the team this season.
In Sodales John was instrumental in
defeating the U.N.B. Law School in
19387 and was elected president. of
that organization in 1938. In the
same year the Law Society chose
him vice-president, and the Newman
Club as president.

He is a member of Phi Delta
Theta Fraternity and is now articled
to the law firm of Lovett, MacDonald and MacInnis.

John Dickey has had a varied and
brilliant career at college and it
seems that everything he undertook
was crowned with success. If we
followed the custom of our southern
neighbors we would vote him most
likely to succeed. .

 

 

Insist on

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
B-6821

45 GRANVILLE ST,

 

The
Dalhousie Tray

For a pleasing and lasting
gift for either sex, we suggest the Dalhousie Tray.
Of fine silver plate, it is
fourteen in, in diameter,
and has an etching of
the MacDonald Memorial
Library in the centre.

Price—$8.00

Henry Birks &
Sons Ltd.

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

  
 
     
   

HALIFAX

456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

The National Fish Company, Limited

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

Merry Christmas
To You All

TT ee

HALIFAX, WN. S.

  

NOVA SCOTIA.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

aE Brisk say they will sit tight.

r to that of the

trad ctory views of the internal sit_ uation. India has a fairly strong
National Congress party which its
it ce can ie with any

ter Moslem-Hindu cities or
= bet mn power might step in.

fg mer British claim. ‘Last week the
or oy al Daily Star carried a caroi Te oe which the Moslems and Hinny « peers pictured as scrapping
y benevolent John. Bull was ref. The Nationalists say this is a
Pte - misrepresentation. India has a ¢mi__- nority problem. There are 250,000,000 ‘Hindus, 60,000,000 Moslems. The
Nationalists say this is too big a
Aas inority to be exploited in a de mocracy. Further, the North West,
eet predominantly ‘Moslem, is favorable
to “Ghandi and the Congress. The
Pee sat () Nationalists say the differences are
being accentuated to further Imeka Ve! ‘perialist ends.
The British talk of a foreign
ae . nents” But Japan is so deeply inite volved in China that an Indian adih ts venture would be bound to fail. The
au tye. Russian ‘threat may be greater, but
a oo ee ‘mountainous North is easy to
sept a oot Phe Semneraiat party is

 
 

 

 

eh Feast RES Get es
a| owners having been mobilized”. The
,-| Windows of such stores still carry

SSE, |FIRST WORD FROM—

x

(Continued from Page One)

their displays of merchandise. War

came too suddenly to permit of any
_| disposal of stock.

Paris at night is no een the

| place of gaiety and light that it was

.| before the war. An almost complete
black-out renders it impossible to

see clearly three feet ahead. But

that doesn’t matter, because there is
nothing to see. The cafes close at

11.00. Life exists only indoors, be
hind tightly drawn curtains_ or
windows that are painted blue and
taped to prevent shattering in case
of bombardment. —

Universities have suffered proportionately, perhaps the greatest loss
of all. And especially the University
of Paris. Mobilization of men between the ages of 20 and 50 has cut
a tremendous swath in the ranks of
professors and students. The enrollment of girls has suffered a serious decrease because their parents
prefer to keep them at home now,
or to send them to one of the pro
ergy eh or all,
mits }

   
 

WiC tee
Lt!
was :

Mike Tee ARE Te
a ities. [ hiss .

 

aot
:

A ow Slant
On Imperialism

Many people are still looking for
the motive of Russia’s invasion of
Finland. Imperialism was supposed
to be the result of capitalism and
capitalistic competition. Accordingly the Soviet government seemed to
be departing completely from its
schedule when it made military demands on the Baltic countries and
Finland. Had not Russia been assuring the world for years that it
wanted peace, and had not Russia
even joined the League of Nations?

There was to be considered, on
the other hand, the professed Communist ideal of world evolution, but
that failed to explain an unprovoked aggression which could only
have the effect of alienating public
opinion in the western democracies,
and practically delivering a death
blow to the already hard hit Communist movements there. Perhaps
Stalin simply put the immediate
possibility ahead of distant uncertainties, and preferred the establishment of Communist governments

vincial universities where the danger|in Eastern Poland and Finland to

is less. Even the foreign population
is depleted. Many foreign students
have returned to their native countries, in some cases because of
mobiliziation there, as in England,
in other cases because of measures
of repatriation taken by théir respective governments, as in the
United States.

University City, a collection of 25
residences built by many different
nations and capable of housing 2400
students, has now only one house
open. This house contains only 450
rooms and even they are not all
filled. Canada House, as well as all
the others, is closed. The famous
International House, one of the
series of three built by Rockefeller,

the encouragement of relatively
feeble Communist movements in the
west which would probably never
amount to anything.

Unfortunately for this argument,
however, the invasion of Finland
didn’t seem to have any connection
with the spread of Communism at
all. The demands made on that
country were almost entirely of a
military nature; their declared object was to safeguard the interests
of Russia and not to liberate the
appressed masses of Finland.
The solution would appear to be
simply that a socialist country can
have national interests just as well
as a capitalist country. Certain very
vital commodities may be outside

ay

Jr., has only its cafeteria open. Its| its boundaries, and a purely imper
great ballroom, swimming pool,
library, bar are all closed.
The emptiness, the deserted aspect

eres in of these buildings is a sad sight.

  
 

ate “| But. sadder is the thought of all

Bal aie ss those for whom this is their last
Be ity | Yer of freedom. —

 
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
    
  

a nothing ‘until. ‘the Mos
are  patiehed. This sounds
oe isn’t. ‘The only Moslem,
non | by the English to the

: it a cils, e.g., Punjab and United
a = have voted for Federa
ie To the outside world it must apaM 3 pear ‘that the British are stalling
_ for time, and are using an outworn
! aes as a justification for pre__ serving the status-quo. Indian sol' diers are again fighting to save the
agian and its “Democracy”. Will
} _ithey again be dissilusioned ?
Saggitarius, and the New Statesyman and Nation, has a witty jingle
yon the subject. He speaks of it in
terms of a marriage:
India, helpless to escape
_ Past experience of rape,
To nothing short of wedlock would
agree, ;
Nor her lawful claims resign
As Linlithgow’s concubine
For innumerable vice-regal cups
of tea.

Still the Viceroy’s frigid sloth

Fails to consummate their troth

And set her throned beside him in
Durbar. —

So until the marriage moon

Temple bells are out of tune

_ And the bulbuls are still wonder

Rees ing where they are.

 

- Toronto, Ont.— They have their
‘ | le at Toronto University, too

fe ae pe e other day a freshette spent her

Resi Ae pad afternoon in the library there.

i es ‘. ur Hf e walked innocently into the

he ’s reading room, and sat there

about twenty minutes before

t shanna intuition began to op
; on and tell her that all was not|

yo it Mould hie and 80 she beat a

  

-home-front.

Serious as the conditions are today, they are not as serious as they
were yesterday just after war had

been declared and they show signs

oe improving tomorrow. Most people
seem to take the view that the great
offensive will not materialize until
next spring, if even then. The result is a movement towards normality, and away from as many of the
repressions of wartime as possible.
It is no longer prohibited to appear
on the streets without a gas-mask,
as it.was six weeks ago. Complaints
are rising about the conduct of
black-outs which do not permit
enough light to avoid traffic accidents. One might as well be bombed
to death as be run over by a taxi,
is a popular opinion. Certain sections of men between the ages of
4 Qand 50 have been demobilized and
have returned to their work on the
Many of the people
evacuated from Paris in the first
days of the war have returned.
Many of the schools of Paris reopened on November 6, but only for
boys and girls over 11 years old and
only for as many as the adjacent
air-raid shelter will hold.

The food situation is very good.
There is no sign of ration cards, and
although there are certain restrictions to the purchase of food, they
represent no serious inconvenience to
the ordinary consumer. On Monday,
pork is the only meat that can be
bought; on Tuesdays, pork, veal and,
I believe, mutton. On the other days

: choice is unlimited.

And there are signs of the irrepressibility of the Parisian spirit.
All phases of the Hitler-Stalin
agreement, or air-raid shelters, of
war in general have been amply
caricatured. The controversy between the press and the censor

| grows more lively every day, with

the moral victory, at any rate, going
to the press. Whenever an article

the | is censored, a blank space appears

   
  
   
  
 
    
 
 

‘eae

|to tell of the censoring. If the
s| Space is large enough, an impudent

meen Marie | drawing is inserted — a little man,
r inte esting” | perhaps, greeting the censor with

excessive ‘politeness; or maybe a

Pee I a it egestas

ialistic war may be the only way to
obtain them. The standard of living
in a socialist country may be raised
by the exploitation of a backward
country in as great a degree as can
the profits of investors in a capitalistic one. Further, a socialist country may be attacked by another,
and materials of war may be just
as important to it as to any other
country.

In short, there can be such a
thing as national socialism. Russia, a socialist country at least in
theory, is attacking Finland because that country owns a strip of
land—as well as large nickel resources—of considerable military
importance to Russia, a _ world
power.

The lesson, if one must be drawn,
is that the world will not be given
political or economic stability by
the setting up of independent socialist regimes throughout the world.
The result of this may well be the
setting up a number of more or
less economically _ self - sufficient
blocs, like the US.S.R., the British |
Empire, or the United States. Each
one must of necessity covet the resources of another, and there is
bound to be war, economic if not
political. Only a world order and a
world economy can secure permanent stability, and that provided
Buck Rogers does not establish too
easy transportation to other planets.

ridiculous sound that word has for

French ears.
Life in Paris can still be amusing,

even in time of war.

WALTER MURPHY.

 

 

The honest mule lives thirty years,
And nothing knows of wines or
beers;
The goat and sheep at twenty die,
And never taste of Scotch or rye;
The cow drinks water by the ton,
And at eighteen is mostly done;
The dog at fifteen cashes in
Without the aid of rum or gin;
‘The cat in milk and water soaks,
And then in twelve short years it
croaks;
The modest, sober, bone-dry hen
Lays eggs for nogs, and dies at ten;
All animals are strictly dry,
They sinless live and swiftly die;
But sinful, ginful, rum-soaked men

 

Client: So the jury awarded me

ee! $10? That’s great.

Lawyer: Yes, you don’t know how

lone Py

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

N. F. C. U.S. Conference—

Continued from Page One

had invited the C. S. A. to send a
delegate to the biennial meeting to
lay proposals before the meeting on
this point.

In discussing the work done by the
Federation, the President stated that
through the agency of the National
Federation, reduced railway fares
for students between all points in
Canada were to be in effect at the
Christmas vacation, and also showed
how the Executive of the Federation
had been responsible for the organization and maintenance of the
C.U.P. and the National Exchange
Scholarship system, which had provided some hundred and fifty scholarships to Canadian students.

The President made no comment
when approached on the question of
honorary officers, merely stating
that the only honorary officer of the
Federation was the Hon. President,
His Excellency the Governor General.

It was pointed out that the National Federation of Canadian University Students is the “Federal
Government” of Students in Canada.
It was established in 1925, and has
conducted biennial meetings ever
since. McGill has been a member |
of the Federation ever since its’
inauguration and is represented)
a member of its Students’ Council.

The C, S.A. National Executive
has accepted the invitation of the
N.F.C.U.S. to send delegates to its
national meeting. This statement
was announced by Sylvia Grove,
Recording Secretary. Two fraternal
delegates, one French and one English, will be appointed by the C.S.A.
The National Executive is preparing
a brief on methods of co-operation
and co-ordination between the two
bodies,

It was also announced that in
order to bring the Federation more
closely into touch with the plans
and outlook of the students as expressed in the National Conference,
the Federation is invited to hold its
meeting at Ste. Anne’s with the
Third National Conference. This
will make possible an exchange of
delegates that would otherwise be
difficult due to the method of university representation on the N. F.
C. U.S,

 

 

j

NOTICE TO ALL—
(Continued from page two)
Classical Clubs, Sodales, Pine Hill,
National Fraternities and Sororities,
Chemistry Club, and any other organization which may accidentally
have been left out.

These programs may be given to
any member on temporary executive
of C.S.A. namely, Jackie Cahan,
Rowena Benson, Inez Smith, Jim
Currie, Otto Antoff and Delmar
Amiro, |

 

 

 

}

 

24 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

CONFERENCE ON—

Continued from Page One

United States. Canada has been
allotted five places for foreign students and fifty for student delegates,
three of whom will attend from
Dalhousie.

Besides the main addresses of the
Conference, there are five seminar
topica dealing with various aspects
of the general theme. The number
for each group has been limited to
twenty-five in order that every delegate may have ample opportunity to
participate. Dr. Bruce Collier, Julia
Matouskava, Winnifred Thomas and
Canon R. S. K. Seeley are among
the Canadian Seminar Leaders.
There will also be in attendance men
and women who will act as resource
people. Paul Harrison, Kenneth
Latourette, Hachiro Yuasa and
Walter Judd will be among this
group. Robert Mackie, Chairman of
the World Student Christian Move
Hisiaiaiai eisai aot

 

 

 

 

Christmas Suggestions

to buy at

ROYS

Blazers, College Crests
and Banners
Dal Christmas Cards
oc Each

Be ee

 

December 5, 1989

a a a

ment will be present. Those who
attended the Maritime S.C.M. Spring
Camp of last year or the Couchiching Conference of two years ago will
be glad to-hear that Russell Ames
Cook is to direct the Music of the
Conference.

Plans are under way for a meeting
of the Canadian Delegation on the
afternoon of January Ist to discuss
the conference follow-up. As this is
of great importance to the benefit
which such a conference can be to
the community at large, delegates
will be expected to remain for this
session. For further information
get in touch with any member of
the Executive of the §.C.M. or the
Secretary at B-5596.

 

 

i Panitel 4

Continuous 1 to 11

 

 

TUES. - WED. - THURS.
ROBERT TAYLOR
GREER GARSON

LEW AYRES

“REMEMBER”

e
FRI. - SAT. - MON.

The most magnificent picture
of British Spirit and Courage
ever produced.

“THE LION
HAS WINGS’

 

 

 

When

 

driving

it is always too soon
to take a chance

LIVE AND LET LIVE

Published in the interests
of Public Safety by

 

Pinar

LIFE

Established 1869
Head Office, Waterloo, Ont.

 

WE SPECIALIZE IN STATIONERY FOR THE STUDENT

GARDEN NEWS

 

TWO STORES

Post Office Facilities
OPEN EVERY NIGHT

Owned and Operated by Graduates of Dalhousie

bale

16 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

SS ee ee Se ees

XMAS CARDS |

STUDENTS --Buy your Christmas Cards Now :

THE MOST COMPLETE LINE OF XMAS CARDS IN THE CITY

You also will want to see our beautiful assortment of NOVELTIES, GIFTS,
CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS and CHRISTMAS WRAPPINGS

is

~ a
A acs
. os

2 _

   
    
  
    
  
 
  

 
  
   
   
 

  
  
  
 
  

*

 

‘i “On October the ee. the ‘irises tient anniversary
ed the founding of the Czechoslovakian republic was commemorated in the City of Prague. Many citizens of the city made
Brows attempt to celebrate what used to be one of the

aa: re redical: student at the University of Prague, Jan

| > veel had the misfortune to be shot, as a result of which he

a ed in prison two years later. On November the fifteenth, two| Matheson, H. H. Bell, A. E. Morton, Mater, a letter dated June 10th Support “Gazette” 18 Spring Garden Road
thousand students of the university attempted to escort the| Rev. W. 0. Mulligan, Dr. Colin| Signed by the Campaign Secretary 4
was sent to every alumna and Advertisers

ri body to the railway station, but they were quickly dispersed

se the Elite Guard,

< a
_ add to the ire of the students, who
. Ia er reassembled in another part
of, the city; this demonstration was
ot dealt with in so kindly a manmer, On the following morning
; squads of the Elite Guard entered
ae ee buildings of the University and
arene Prague colleges, dragged stunts out of their beds and class
© rooms and arrested two thousand of
them, eight hundred of whom were
bi gu ubsequently released from prison.
ot Ge ‘man authorities in the protec“ot torate decided that a severe example
Oy 4 aust eo set for other aspiring

Y co would be assured of a per
by a gang of notorious shooters known in military circles as

__ This treatment merely served to{morous side of this rigid censorship

is shown in a report that the meteorlogical bureau in the protectorate
was ordered not to publish a weather
report which prophesized likelihood
of disturbances in Germany”.

THE RIGHT TO FREEDOM

Flagrant denials of the individual’s right to freedom of expression
such as have oceurred in Czechoslovakia, have been the subject of
many discussions as to what a Nazi
dominated Europe would be like.
At this moment, millions of people
are working to make sure that encroachments upon personal liberty
shall proceed no further; some of
them acting in the cold light of
reason, and in a desire to preserve
our freedom others are cast into
their places by a wave of war
hysteria. Much of what is being
said and written today is calculated

 

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

1 STUDENTS § SLAIN BY. RATE

 

CAMPAIGN IMPETUS INCREASING—

Continued from Page One :
The University had no organization for such a Campaign and im
) mediately steps were taken to

organize and consolidate Dalhousians
in the same manner as had been
‘bdons during the Reunion. It was
necessary, therefore, that the various alumni points in the Maritime
Provinces and Eastern Canada be
visited by representatives of the
Campaign Committee. This has been
done with a great deal of success.
A Campagin Committee has been
formed in Montreal whose personnel
is as follows: ;

Colonel C. H. L. Jones, Dr. H. W.

Sutherland, A. J. Barnes, Alistair
Fraser, A. Jubien, Aliister MacKinnon, G. A. Gaherty, Denis Stairs,
Claude §. Richardson, K.C., Miss
Eleanor Barnstead, Mrs, E. P. Merrill, Mrs. M. A. Ross. Dr. H. W.
Matheson was elected chairman of
the committee and Mr. H. H. Bell,
Secretary.

They expect to a under way
after January 3lst, 1940. Lists of
Alumni and civilians have been prepared who will be canvassed. It is
expected that this committee will
continue its work throughout the
province of Quebec.

Subsequently a letter dated July
18th, 1939, which has already been
sent you, showing the needs of the
University as presented by the various deans was forwarded to the
same personnel.

These letters have been followed
up in New Brunswick, Nova Scotia
and Prince Edward Island by various
members of the staff and certain
selected collectors. The follow-up in
Halifax has been left until the
general campaign. In Prince Edward

committee there are dividing up
their lists and seeing various alumni.

The results from this campaigr
up to date are: Pledges—$32987.90; Cash — $16,000. This is
very gratifying as it comes from
a very small part of our alumni
who have been canvassed. In
practically every case our canvassers have been received cordially.
This is important.

In New York, meetings were held
in the Fall, when the work of organization was fully undertaken.

In order to test out the feeling of
Dalhousians- regarding their Alma

alumnus, a copy of this letter together with the enclosures therein
is herewith sent you.

After a great deal of consideration
the committe had printed its general
appeal with a foreword by the
Chairman of the Board of Governors
a copy of this pamphlet has already
been out. This will be going out to
the public at large some time after
the first of January.

The committee has considered it
wise to confine its efforts to the
alumni appeal owing to the war. As
to when the general drive in Halifax
takes place, this has been considered
by the committee and decision has
been held in view of the present
crisis.

Suffice it to say, however, that the
committee is a going concern and
is paying its own expenses out of
what it collects without any inroads
into the college funds.

If any of you have any amounts
to spare and have not already contributed, your contributions will be a
great stimulus to the committee.

 

Christmas Cards

 

10

3 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
(Directly Opposite Tech College)

FRENCH
FOLDERS

d0Cc
Lou Connolly

  

Fruit Basket

FOR CHRISTMAS

  
 

Fruit Garden

B-8486

   
    
   
  

made up at

The

   
 

 

  
 

Free Delivery ,

 

 

Pa vache

@ We moderns need not practice stoic rigours;
for, Sam Slick says, “The moment a man takes
to a pipe he becomes a philosifer.” With
Picobac we need envy no man. For Picobac is
the pick of Canada’s Burley crop — always a

 

yas
se) :

D:; ZO genes the Cynic withdrew unto his cask

The sun 6° soothing Picobac were all that he would ask.

 

 

mild, cool, sweet smoke, And its price is no
strain even on a philosopher’s purse.
also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“Te DOES taste good in a pipe! ’”

fex ctly clear picture of the penalty
s mw hai is meted out to those who

Respectfully submitted.
Yours sincerely,

J. S. ROPER,
Campaign Secretary.

to arouse the war passions of the
general public. In the long run, it
is in the best interests of our country that we discount much of the
©” | propaganda which is being dissemi. nated at the presen time. We in this|
=i veo ae country, as well as the students in|
erity Czechoslovakia, have a task which is|
|mot an easy one—namely the preser-|
: vation of freedom of thought and|§
ea expression, not only from an onae freer of foreign oppression, but | #
| sO. from the prejudices and false}
;| conceptions now thriving within our!
a country.

Island the alumni there intend to put
on a campaign later on in the season after the results of the potato

| i hn the!
crops are known. In Saint John the HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH - 15¢

Yp-LB. "LOK-TOP" TIN - 60¢

 

 

‘Bradente’
Christmas and New Year’s Fares
From Halifax

To BOSTON -. $20.65 $19.40

GOING: December 5th to December 29th
RETURN: Leave Boston January 29th, 1940

 

   
  

 

 

ed Canads is at war with Germany
— cannot. this grim business be!
€ 's. ‘peace, ‘The Czech press is | executed successfully by a people
is ored. to the point of absurdity. who have not been fed upon propa‘famous | daily, the Narodni Listy,| ganada, and inflamed by hatred.
fp gested | se people in Pesete As witnesses of the fate of first
a principles in Czechoslovakia, we
‘should be spurred on to take the
best of care that in our fight for the
preservation of liberty we shall not
by our own acts lose that which we

are striving to preserve.

PETE NICHOLSON.

   

Aye
BR
Aye

ALSO TO ALL POINTS IN CANADA
GENEROUS LIMITS - LOW FARES

FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY

DOMINION ATLANTIC RAILWAY

Youll Enjoy
Christmas Shopping

ag - to pay a further 670,000
_if any more anti-German

at

If I were an echo, just for a joke,
I'd yell at a guy before he spoke,
—-  Wux’s Views

(Witwatersrand University, S.A.)

LDA DER

a
2

Do Your Christmas Shopping Early

ee
i cual

—
Jn

onmnes Faas

no *

481-483 Barrington Street

 

 

 

From the Manitoban, organ of the
lane oe of Manitoba, we learn
that a male student has shattered
all tradition by enrolling in the department of home eeonomics. We
hope that all the co-eds realize what
a lovely husband he will make for
some lucky, lucky girl!

Whether buying for your boy friend, girl friend,
parents or acquaintances a wide selection of smart, worthwhile gifts at SIMPSONS.
Come out today or any day to do your Christmas
saving at this modern store.

           

“Ye our roommate.

 

 

Mae

 

 

 

   
  

¥ ho breaks the furniture and
“i oe Breathes there the man with soul FOR MEN FOR WOMEN
bee, dead Bill Folds...... 20cto 1.75 Silk Hosiery... 1.00 to 1.50
o’s never stopped : Bri ee Bee 7.5€ Novelti 5 5
a Fest | ‘ , fet pped and turned his A MERRY CHRISTMAS TO ALL! ee oe va . bal ee See me ce rg
Wc 1g gies at ee when you unk ? and gata: “Hm? : : : OP ot WORE WOM. Ld ee iy, cto ste
2 m, not bad!” , : OVER sieve es: 1.00 to 4.50 Neck fae Wd co 5
Who al alae ae gigs | We would especially like to show Belts =igedinyt ous hk | ae : sks mS
Vho- a cons ome late an ‘ SS LN ee bie ae : er he aes S
" ? > you our line of PI. Wits wee 90cto 1.50 Perfume ....... 50c to 11.00 *
We hear from Toronto of an iene sii ale a 39cto 1.50 Cutex Sets... 65¢ to 12.00
Amazonian freshette who ie ge ° . ° ° ee ee oe 1.00to 3.50 Yardley’s Sets.. 1.00 to 10.00
em a Suits, Shirts, Ties, Hosiery, Hats Searves «...... 1.0040 3.00 Woodbury’s Sets 50e to 2.50
sophomores. She is they 36 es ocks 1.98to 4.95 Fountain Pens. 1.00 to 5.00
the mutilated temensta ov oe All New Stock. Book Ends... .. 39¢to 2.50 Handbags ..... 1.00 to 6.95
men ties for a patchwork quilt, Yardley’s Sets.. 1.00to 7.50 Ski Jackets.... 2.98 to 11.50
| Woodbury’s Sets 50cto 1.00 Ski Slacks..... 2.79 to 4.50 Ae
| BASIL WINTERS LTD Fountain Pens.. 1.00 to 7.50 House Coats... 4.98 to 15.98
Roses are blue, ‘
Violets are pink, NEW MEN’S STORE
Immediately after : THE SIMPSO EASTERN
The thirteenth drink. Y.M.C. A. Building 383 Barrington Street ROBERT LIMITED
Tech Flash
ay Et ‘h
i mi .s es Mies BS ore ATs re a
a ft pF . i a t ve “4 ii ‘- ci

 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
  

Cee of 49-41 in an
ion g game played at the Dalgymnasium. The game, atby ‘a very small crowd of
_ was replete with © brilliant
a ng ee real basketball ability

ae me Bera privice jumped into
a early lead, using a floor-length
assing attack when the All-Star
guards” ‘were caught up the floor to
(oe oe _ sink several easy baskets. Stienecke,
starry guard of the Davids, caged
several nice long shots from centre.
eis The Halifax aggregation, with
_ Burnie Ralston, former St. John
" - Consols player leading the attack,
iy er managed to click and at the
midway mark of the first period they
aieeee only a few points down. How_ ever, the bewhiskered players put on
ie ‘scoring splurge towards the end
eh} - of the period to lead 27-16 at half
he ae ie time.
eee - From the outset of the second
period, the All-Stars started to click,
and nice combination plays between
Ralston, Wilson, and Arnott netted
them nine points without a reply
from the House of David squad,
bring the score to 27-25, but three
* _ points by Stienecke gave them a five
3 ee oe point lead. Several minutes later
con the All-Stars started to score again
,h ay and at the 8-minute mark were only
ae ie a point behind, the score standing
die 32-81. However, from this point on,
eos the House of David opened out a
short lead, mostly on long shots and
bucket plays, which they never

r,
reli
tes \f ce

 
 

   
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  

} Eo
i
a

     
  
   
  
  

quished. Newell, lanky David
ter scored repeatedly from under1 ~~ pamet when the Halifax

es nark him, and as
| w the visitors

  

ttack, whi
Poenet “Acadia coach, each
red 14 points for the All-Stars.
gi Piers refereed.
aa Line-ups:
ae House of David — Newell 17,
-.——- Hamilton 6, Garrison 9, Stienecke 9,
nag 2. Parham 8.
ss AM-Stars — Arnott 7, Barry, Rally _ ston 14, Chisholm, Bates, J. Wilson
a » Parker, Croucher 2, Creighton,
_ Wilson 14,

Poa Pirie.
_ To Get Under Way

Hockey practices for both the intermediate and intercollegiate teams
_ are continuing at a great pace, with
a wealth of material turning out at
each practice. The teams, although
not picked yet, have been working
out at the Forum during the past
_ two weeks, and if present indications
are of any value, Dalhousie should
be proud of her hockey teams this
year.
Under the capable direction of
Pete MacDonald, well-known in maritime hockey circles, over thirty
_ players are being put through their
paces at each and. every practice.
his year there is so much material,
at least a half-dozen trying for each
i, spot on the teams, that Coach MacDonald will have a hard time choosing squads.
a The intermediate league, in which
an es the Tigers will participate, will open
i _ the first week in January, according
es to latest reports. Although there
are eight teams trying for berths in
oe _ this league, it has been stated that
a nie only six will be allowed to enter.
. ‘ a ry ‘Those trying to enter are Dalhousie,
ft et _ King’s, Tramways, Surburban AllGait Stars, Army, Navy, Air Force, and

pat. e a  Sunocos._ fhe: first four mentioned

  
 
  
 
   
    
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
    
 

 

~

“

s

 
  
   
  
  
   
   
    
  
 

4 ed e,
3 e “Intercollegiate playdowns still rees main r ae of a oy _ Other

 

nf
"
7
7 = 4 a
- ¢
eal Sas ee ee ne oy eee go =" Ea =
oS

SPORT
SHOTS

By
Doug Cameron

 

Interfaculty basketball for the
pre-Christmas term ended yesterday.
Although complete statistics regarding the standing so far have not
been compiled, it appears as if the
battle for the title will be between
Arts & Science last year’s champions, Law, and the Freshmen. The
latter have a very strong team this
year. However there will be plenty
more games after Christmas, WITH
MEALS (it is hoped), and there is
still a chance that the league leaders will be overtaken.

There has been a marked lack
of interest in interfaculty softball
this year, in spite of D. A. A. C.
efforts to create interest in the
sport. At present, Medicine and
Dentistry are the only contenders
for the championship of “A” section, both having won a game by
default. In the “B” section, Commerce, who have this year returned to interfaculty sport, are
out in front by virtue of a win by
default. In a pick-up game played
last Thursday evening, a team
composed of the great majority of
Commerce men down Dentistry
by a score in the vicinity of 25-10.
One would almost think that it
was basketball they were playing.
However we hope to see the finalists to be named before Christmas
said finalists to meet in a best
two of three series after the
holidays.

This week we are inaugurating a| 2 total of 16 points.
nn | new department in this here column.

| We invite your guesses as to whom

we are referring in asking the

| weekly question. We intend to call
it “who is it anyway?” or “is he
man or mouse?” Are you all ready
for the question? Here goes.

Who is it that, (1) only comes
up to Studley to indulge in a
game of ping-pong; (2) is a Cocacola fiend; (3) has had the name
Cif it can be called a name) of
Le Frois (we don’t know if we are
spelling this correctly, but we
leave it for Law students to tell
us) hung on him by his classmates; (4) is continually tossing
nickels and chewing gum????77?

Laughs Galore in
Shinney Classic

The galloping feet of the sleeker

 

 

WF

 

   
   

   
 
  

INTER - FAC
Se witw

DENTISTRY CLIPS
MEDS

Handing Medicine a 13-7 defeat,
Dentistry won the right to meet
Commerce in the finals of the Interfaculty Softball League at Dalhousie. The game was closely played
from start to finish, but Minichello’s
homer with the bases loaded in the
sixth inning gave the Dents a substantial victory margin.

With the rival pitchers, Irwin and
Merkeley, displaying great form, the
first four innings were nip and tuck.
Each team counted a run in the first
inning, but Dentistry went out in
front in their half of the second as
they pushed 7 runs across the plate.
But in the third, the Meds added 5
more to their total, while holding
the Dents scoreless, to make the
score 8-6.

    
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Basketballers

GIRLS’ SP SPORTS |

Well, the first half of the year is
over and it has been a very good one
as far as Girls’ Sport is concerned.

In ground hockey we have had
two very good games with both
H.L.C. and Edgehill, and then there
was that game with the boys, a week

 

  

REG.

_

ae ae eg) bee

December 5, 1939

$10 PERMANENT for $7.50
REG. $7.50 PERMANENT

for $5.00

To“ introduce our new operator ROLAND
to the ladies of Halifax we are giving a
special in permanents for TWO weeks only
till December 14th. Get your permanent
for Christmas Now.

eemerctee oo.) SER eL ttt.
> ha
ed Pe

Remember, 20% Off for
the Dal-King’s Co-Eds.
Emile

Hairdressing
. Oxford Theatre Bldg.
Marquis, Manager
Anne MacLean, Prop.
Open Every Evening

 

ago Friday. If you weren’t playing
you certainly should have seen them csUVBUUUUQNSS0O0UU UEDA OO LEYUSPSAO NASON RE EASE
—it was rare! Although we think WHEN YOU NEED:

the Dal boys are very, very, nice,
most of them know very little about
ground hockey. That didn’t matter,
however, they had lots of fun.
Nobody paid much attention to rules
and so the point of the game seemed
to be to make a goal by hook or by
crook. The boys, having three extra
players on the field, one of which
was Red Payne, did finally win, the
score being 3-1. But remember,
might isn’t right.

However, the game was more fun
than a barrel of monkeys and was a
grand way to end the season.

 

Basketball is now well under way,

| but of course the real time for this

FROSH TRIUMPH
OVER ARTSMEN

Coming from behind in the second
period, Freshmen handed Arts and
Science, last year’s champions, a decisive 41-26 setback to take over the
leadership of the Dalhousie Interfaculty Basketball league in a game
played at Studley last week. In the
other game played, King’s downed a
much improved Commerce team by a
score of 87-28. These were the last
two games to be played in the preChristmas schedule.

MacNeil, Stone and Bundy led the
Freshmen accounting for 12, 13, and
10 points respectively, while Clarence Fraser topped all scorers with

 

LAW AND FROSH
. WIN ;

Teams representing Law and
Freshmen were victorious in last
Thursday’s matches played in the
Dalhousie Interfaculty League. The
Law cagers, last year’s champs, took
over first place in the league by defeating the Engineers in a closely
contested match by a score of 22-16.
In the other game played, the
Freshmen triumphed over King’s by
a close score of 31-27.

Forsythe and Howard led the
King’s team with 17 and 13 points
each, while Doig’ accounted for 12
of the loser’s points.

SEN er eS SR ee ee
intercepted pass set up by “Clout”

MacKeigan and “Whizzer” Whyte.
At this point the girls played

nah 8 eee

sex carried them to victory in a| played their best hockey and with
new realm of sport on Friday last,|the Mounseys leading the attack

when a smoothly functioning team| they stormed the boys goal.

Payne,

of boys outmaneuvered the Dal-| Ralston, and Lawson did their best,

housie girls.

|then decided that a shutout would!

-|game is after Christmas when the

interclass and intercollegiate leagues

get started.
On Friday, Miss Wray and Marjorie MacIntosh, the basketball

manager, went to a conference held

in order to settle the business of the |

intercollegiate league, which if you

year. The conference was held at
Truro with representatives from
both Acadia and Mt. A. present, and
was very successful. A constitution
of a women’s branch of the M.I.A.U.
was drawn up, and also a tentative
schedule for basketball. These of
couse, will have to be approved by
U.N.B. but we see no reason why
they shoudn’t find it satisfactory. In
the schedule drawn up each of the
teams will play each of the others,
which is a great improvement over
last year.

 

In Badminton the Church leagues
have already started, two matches
having been played at the present
time. There are still eight more to
be played after Christmas.

 

Although things have been going
fine so far, there will be much more
the next term—so until then, good
luck in the exams and Merry Xmas.

Excellent Prospect
For Basketball

which have
been held three times weekly for
almost a month, will be discontinued after tomorrow, according to
Coach Burnie Ralston, so as not to

Basketball practices,

The boys have been working hard in
an effort to get in shape for the
coming season, and are fast ap
The final score was 3-1 (it was too!) | look bad. At this point, with all the| proaching good condition.

which is but slight indication of the | girls clustered around, the ball rolled

With the prospect of a five-team

play. Action during the first haif; between the uprights, scored by dear; Senior league and an eight-team in
Constant cries of “bully” caused

“Cuddles” Plumer to blush at first,| raided but a breakaway by Blanchbut he soon entered into the spirit| ard and Vail gave the boys their last
of the game in a whacking good| score as the whistle went.

way.

centered in the girls end of the field.| knows whom.

From the faceoff, the girls again

 

The

Bert “goal-a-minute” Vail} refereeing was ably mishandled by

scored the first goal midway through| Miss Phyl Wray, Dot MacKenzie,

the first canto, on aj pretty effort|and Marian Tregunno.

Thank you

which gave Audy “Night-in-jail” no| girls, more fun and stuff.

chance to save. The opening of the

second period saw the girls.pressing | defence — Reta Harrison,
had-to hold the attack of the boys! Sandall;

forward line.

Girls—Goal, Audrey Nightingale;
Betty
forwards—Olga Mounsey,

Vail bagged his sec-| Yvonne Mounsey, Joan Moon, Betty

ond when he took advantage of an| Harris, Marian Tregunno, Dot Mac
 

not known at present when these
playdowns will begin.

Interfaculty hockey, the present
champions being Medicine, will start
shortly after the Christmas holidays.
All those faculties wishing to enter

‘teams are asked to make known

their intentions to the interfaculty
manager, Doug Cameron. He may
be contacted at the Gazette Office,
| or me by phone B-0698.

termediate loop in the city this year,
fans who follow the game closely
should see plenty of action in both

leagues this winter. Although it

kenzie, Babs Sieniewicz, Barbara
Schwartz, Joy Morrison} Bunny
MacDonald,

Boys—Goal, D.I.C.M.; defence —
“Red” Payne, Burnie Ralston; forwards — “Tick” Fennel, “Cuddles”
Plumer, “Butch” Blanchard, “Butch”
Lawson, “Jive” James, “Three-goal”
Vail, “Whizzer” Whyte.

 

22 BLOWERS ST.
HALIFAX, N. S.

Telephone
B-9553

LOHNES’ RESTAURANT

NOVA SCOTIA SEA’ FOODS A SPECIALTY

Special Luncheon - Regular Meals and A La Carte
_ “Thousands of Satisfied Customers Recommend Us”

interfere with the Christmas

 

 

 

remember got rather muddled

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

"SUMUULINAAUOCOQOQINOEODOAQIOSNSOOQUUSRSEU DUANE SUAS eee

has not been definitely stated what
teams will compose the senior loop,
five quite likely entries will be the
Grads, Acadia, Navy, Y.M.C.A. and
Dalhousie.

  
 
    
 

  
 
 

New Method
Watch
Cleaning |

Guaranteed 1 year
Main Springs, $1.00

OXFORD

Jewellery Store
575 Barrington St

        
 

 

SELECT
your

CHRISTMAS

CANDY
NOW

(English and Canadian
Packages)

The
Green Lantern
407-409 Barrington St.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest
Restaurant”

 

 

 

Sparkling, Practical ‘Gifts

For The Home

|
| Make your gift presentations

from our large and exclusive

| showing of English China Dinner, Tea and Breakfastware

Everyone will appreciate Practical Gifts this Christmas.
Seleet now on our Lay-Away-Plan. Terms arranged.

Crystal Stemware, Community Plate, Silverware and Cutlery.

Store Open Until

WEBSTER,

6 P.M., Saturdays

SMITH CO.

___ 174-176 GRANVILLE STREET, at BUCKINGHAM |

 

A double delight

FINEST ROASTED FILBERTS
JERSEY MILK CHOCOLATE

Enjoy a bar daily

Neilson’: |

‘THE BEST MILK CHOCOLATE MADE.

 

 

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose.

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST.

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 
