 
     

   
 
  
  
 
  

—_—_—_-— - - ——- — -
= = — = — Thilaserc — eS ae oe . oa wate
P T '. "#eF Pie ps; * r ur. te a 4 a i ee hte) i> a
et ” | ; i Par! at 5 is 3 i 4 rh c a ha i. ve aay de are ts 4 ats 7 i TAL Ps
amet yer a io pare are ati var it a a Pls Sie * , A

ft a if
iS x Ihe

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

: RUN NING SH OE S Siné@the’ Glee ‘Club’s big. effort

Ces of the year is imminent, it is high
ns is a-comin’ ! 1! “Sho” Pint, friends, yo-all-cain’t | time that some Of. the vital statistics
affo’d to miss . ‘unniest shindig. of. the year!,, ‘| Thé hen-hussies were made» available to the student
; do a pit of decoratin?-~ ve Ah*nr sure? ‘yo’ will be body. As everybody probably knows,
to glance at the grand and” plérious conglom- it is..to~be. “Charley’s Aunt”,
tas heard bout the/false eéiling—just to perennially. funny piece that ‘will
| 28 i e bit of Sriperuptosaal probably be acted as long as ‘there

mare os /)* are) college ‘students to act it,

   

    
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
    
  
  
  
    
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
  

  

cont
oN
v
a

 

Super Solons
Hat Into Ri Meet

The Glee Club elections ‘promise On Tuesday..evening the Execua unique contest thig year. One of| tive of the Council met in the Dy A.
_|the contestants willbe Ruth Mac-} A.C, room in the Gymnasium, for
Quarrie, who is an ex¢hahge student the purpose of cleaning up the busat Toronto this year, “andswho. “will|imess delegated to them by the
return to Dalhousie next* year. Council, The first business was the

Ruth came to Dalhousie in4937, | International Student Servite. Philip
with a background of both acting | Beattie, Canadian Secretary of the
and stage work in Moncton. During }/L.S.S., talked briefly and interestingthe two years she has already spent dyin response to a request for more
on this campus, Ruth has taken”: ay information about the LS,S.
very active part in Glee GChut ‘work, |
In her first year she Was_outstane- the $150 amusement tax on the Cal
ay ‘and|edonia game (of happy memory)
“Mt y Tom- reared its ugly head. Ralph Plumer,

boy Girl.” In 1938.39 She was. the D.AAL. president, protested that
very efficient =e of the | it should not be put under the D. A.
Glee Club, and also faund time to A.C. budget unless he was given
# th|an extra grant by the Council to
Night.’ Those who save that, ghem- pay it. The problem was finally
orable production will havé-no doubt|Shelved by counting the item under
as to Miss MacQuarrie’s histrionic the heading of expenses for».the
powers. She was also in a Singing Caledonia game, which is a separate
role in the Munro Day show», Jast budget,
year. Henry Reardon, Glee Club presiIt would be very difficult to find’ ‘dent, then presented an account of
andbody as well qualified as Ruth] the desired changes in the Glee Club
for this admittedly difficult posi-| constitution. Among these is a stiption. ‘She has had the necessary | Wlation that.the president may now
stage as well as acting experience,| be\either male or female.
and has already more than capably The offices of Business Manager
filled a responsible position in the
Glee Club organization. So it is| we launch Ruth into the -stormy
with all wishes for good luck that seas of the election—Bon voyage!

 

 

   
 

stapendious conel a :
cost you a red @

  
   
  
  
    

sure yo’all will k
just in case Sa¢
Wednesday, Mare
get the costumes
what the prize 1
patch costumes ©

  

 

take a leading roll in 4

Ah’m sho’ none in
for said prize—>

 

     
  

 

 

housie is interes oi
have to say. Pr mae
att and Wilson ae

 
 
  
  

the first Maritime inter-c
badminton tournament will
If this one is successful, and e
is every reason that it should be so,
it is probably the beginning of a
permanent badminton league between the different colleges in the
Maritimes,

This tournament is open to any
college student in the Maritimes and
cups have been donated for the winners of the various events.

The finals will be played off Saturday night. Those colleges which
have entered are Acadia, Mount A.,
Dal, Kings, Tech, St. Mary’s,

Next, the troublesome question of |

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY. _ FEBRUARY.-29, 1940

ir HAWKIN:

Put Qe Nae

   
 

 

 

The castysin order of ‘their ob
pearance is as follows: eo
Brassett (a college: scout)”

—Ken. Are nifald !

Jacke=Ghesnéy—V¥. Koretsky.”

that | Charley Wykeham Mountain, |

Lord Fancourt:. Babberley

undergraduatés*at St. Olde’s 5 College
Kitty Verdun (Spettigue’s Ward)
—Joan Moon
Amy Spettigue (Spettigue’s Niece)
—Marge MacKenzi¢
Sir-Fran@is Chesney, Bart.
(Late Indian service)
—J, Carstairs Arnéll
Stephén Spettigue® (Solicitor,

Oxford)—V. MatQuatri Eh od
Farmer {a college scout)-—Ed ‘Wier | Commons (the Munr6é’ Roonw) » the:

Donna Lueia d’Alvadorez
(from Brazil)—Shirley Kirkpatrick
Ela Delahay {an Orphan)

—Joan Blackwood ata of ral ab aan and :

Maud (@ Parlourmaid)
--Penny Patchell

The time of the play will be of ped like the yést with cigars and

particular interest to graduates—it |
takes place during commemoration
week at Oxford, .which of course
corresponds to our convocation. So
all those who have any hope of ever
graduating should not miss this
golden opportunity of seeing how
thing are done at jolly old Oxford,
don’cher know.

We tried to interview the cast on
this subject of what the college
graduate should do during convocation week, and the first one we approached was Forbes Mountain. He
would say no more, however, than
“We of the old school prefer not to
publicize these things—not done,
y’know.” Carstairs Arnel was no
more help. He merely unscrewed
his monocle and withered us with a
glance. We were hurt until we
were told by one kind-hearted
member of the cast that he was
merely practising his dirty look for
one. of his entrances.

Bert Perrot, we learned, was’ de-.
veloping, a giggle, and..awas having
a hard time trying® to manage his
trousers’ after being so. used to:
skirts. He jitxis who impersonates
“Charley’s aunt from Brazil—where
the nuts. come from.” =~

“Charley’s. Aunt’? will ‘be: ‘placed
before its eager ‘Public on” Friday,
March 8, beginning: at 81h. We}
know that none of you. will: want to}
miss this super- -Colossal bit df foolery, So we'll be: seeing you there!

and Property Manager are to
combined into one, Business Manager, which will make for greater
efficiency in the making up of reports: The new office of Secretary
has been created to take care of
matters not falling in the new province of the Business Manager.

At the beginning © of each year,

the Business Manager is to be given
his choice of either being paid $7

per show (as under the old system)

for of being awarded 2 points to- \ . a aaeecronecoreese

| | ward his gold “D". It was also the ee
}feeling of the Executive that. with| _

all due appreciation of the Glee

Club’s present problem, they were
obliged to present candidates for
election at the same time as all
other societies.

The final business of the meeting
was the passing of the recommendations for gold “D’s” in debating and
sports presented by Delta Gamma.
On the completion of this the meeting adjourned,

 

IGlee Club to Pidsent’Cl ‘Charlie’ sh anita Bapharaies wr

1 $940 Session.

“moot éourt room) in*.which hangs

 

be at President Stanley’s

that they can’t win.

NOTICE
COUNCIL TICKETS

In the forthcoming
Student Body Elections
every student before receiving a ballot will be
required to present his
or her Council ticket to
the Presiding Officers,
who will punch each

‘ticket accordingly. You
‘are reminded, therefore, to have your
---* Council ticket on hand

ii for the occasion.

 
   
 
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
     
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
    
    
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
    
    
   
 
   
     
    
   
    
    
  
     
  
   
  
  
   
   
    
 

      

a I ps

 

“PLATFORMS
~-+ PRESENTED
With ostrigh@s oe Rive patliketond AT F ORUM

tarian’ discipline {and grandeur, Ahe |"
Dalhousie «Parliament opened its |
Having again Chosen
Prager ” Be their SPGRSES

Dissolves _ gore

 

 

The Arts and Seience
Sponsoted a Forum on Tuesday
‘Which was well attended, a remark| able number of lawyefs being present. Don MeKeigan = was in the
chair and introduced first Web MacDonald, who outlined his ideas on
getting a Union Building. Webster
was followed by his opponent for
the vice-presidency,; Joan Blackwood, who said she had no platform, but would work untiringly on
the students’ behalf. She thought a
Union Building would be a fine
thing,

Next came the preeiiential candidates, Henry Reardon and George
»Corston, who were freeted with
wild acdlaim. Each gallantly urged
.\ the, other to speak first, so they fin‘lly drew straws for it, and George
‘Gorston presented his appeal. He
deplored the disunion between the
two campuses and said he was for
closer understanding between Studley and Forrest. He entreated the
students to vote for the man, regardless of faculty affiliations, and
sat down amidst thunderous applause; having heartily endorsed the
idea of a Union Building.

Then Henry Reardon rose to address the meeting, and started in
in true Reardon fashion with a
bright: quip. - He ‘then went on to
make it clear that he’ had more to
do than to tell jokes and told the
students that he would like to see
a continuity of personnel on campus executives, and that he was behind the drive for a Union Building,
whether he was elected or not.

The® meeting was then thrown
open for ‘questions from the floor,
and the irrepressible Colin Smith
wanted to know what business experience George Corston had had,
but he was ruled out of order.

Butch Lawson then: claimed the
attention of the meeting by asking
Webster MacDonald ‘his personal
views on the €,S.A. The meeting
showed disapproval of: the question,
to which Mr, MacDonald replied
very ably.

When the period of questions was
over the chairman threw the meeting open.to those who wished to
speak -on: behalf of the candidates.
Betty Sandall gave her views as to
why Reardon would be the better
man, and then Bob Maitland spoke
on behalf of Corston.

Mx, MeKean then added his bit in
Corston’s favour, and Lloyd Dalton
evened up the score by saying that
they were both fine fellows, but he
favoured Reardon. The last speaker
was Art Peake, who told the meeting that the Law Society was highly satisfied with George Corston as
Secretary-Treasurer.

In spite of all the remarks about
ak unity between the two campuses, no
~ftene suggested that the quickest way
»' T to bring the two together in fellowship and harmony would be a tavern, half way down Morris Street,
and the meeting was adjourned.

Society
L, Ww.’

the Taniods: tae“ “chamber (the
a portrait of the Hon: R, B. Bennett
who formérly “layed parliament in
this.sélf-same* fashion.

@Mr. E. T. Parker, K.C. as Govy‘ernor-General read the Speech from
the Throne and then all the mem-,
bers graciously followed the blaekprocession to the Hotise of.

Hon. Speaker Mr, Fraserread? telegrams of congratulations; from such
distinguished people as Prem ier

Ox

Delmar Amiré® BS! ome “gaits

tails upheld the governments position against the fiery attacks of the
dual opposition consisting of Conservatives led by Alex Hart wearing
the tartan of “Rumonald” and the
Independents under the leadership
of the brilliant Confucius inspired
James Curry. They upbraided the
government for its “laissez-faire”
attitude concesing, monetary and
social reforms, ‘ting

With added witielsns and ambiguous orders’ g given by the Speaker
toegther, with! ther ‘applayse: of a
large audi@hee | the first evening was
very pleasant. % i“

Parliament restiingl its session on
Tuesday evening, a rathér® fesitant
but huméreus bill’ ‘on fisheries was
presented bythe Minister of Fisheries, Murray Ryan. Minister without
portfolio, Douglas MacDonald addad much ready wit in support of the
government. An oyerthrowal of the
exposediAmiro g@vernment was
averted by a few Confucius. jokes
and, a°letter read by the ete
sissoliane Senet

7

 

Dewilan’ Chib
Meets

 

Dr. Helen RK.’ Belyea was the guest
speaker for the Dawson Geological
Club meeting held Tuesday evening
home. The
topic was “Geology of the Musquash
Area of New Brunswick”, and it
was a very well illustrated lecture.

The president, Hugh MacDonald,
announced the intention of holdings
the next meeting on March 12<in
open. house..form....in.. the. Géology
Lecture Room. There will be four
speakers and it should prove to be
a PRES aos ee

 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  

  
  
  
  
  
   
 

Tonight the Dal Tigers will play
their second game against the Navy.
The Navy has a good team, but they
beat Dal by only a few points in the
last game and then only because the
shooting of the Dal squad was off
par. If Bernie can get his team off
to a good start there is no reason

 

As things stand now the Dal
Grads are leading the City League
with the Tigers running in second
place. If the senior team wins the
next three games they will be in the
play-offs, and Manager Butch Lawson thinks they have a good chance.

   
 
 
 

 
 

   

  

  

\ 7 ry
‘ 7
i ‘
i

Founded 1869 — “The Oldest

rit yy MeCurdy Printing Co., Li
Editors = - “7 - ~ - INEZ SMITH
. JOAN BLACKWOOD
News Editors - - any eS - JACQUI CAHAN
Sports Editor - : . . . RETA HARRISON
Literary Editor - - - - = KAY REX
Proof Editor = - - - - ROWENA BENSON

 

 

:
The views expressed in any cohimn of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
assumed that the) représent the opinion of the student body.

 

 

A WOMAN’S VIEW

It would be almost futile either to pretend or to create
interest in any other issue than that one which is, or should be
occupying the mind of every student on the campus now; and
that is, the forthcoming election. To discuss this vital question
of campus politics is not inappropriate, we feel, to the co-ed
issue; for the question is equally important to the women at
Dalhousie as to the men, and affects them as greatly.

The very name, “campus politics”, is a misnomer, for it
suggests at once a comparison with the sort of thing that one
naturally associates with federal and provincial elections; and
that is, chiefly, party feeling running high. There are no
parties at Dalhousie; or there should not be. We have, of
course, a Studley faction, a Medicine faction, a Law faction, and
so on; and by campaigning, platforms, and all the other familiar
attributes of party elections, we accentuate the differences
between these groups, rather than bringing them together in
a closer co-operation, which would work to the benefit of all the

students of all the faculties.

Campaigning calls to mind other unpleasant features of an
election system we should avoid rather than encourage. There
are the rash promises, in all probability sincerely meant at the
time when they are made, but impossible to carry out. There is
also the oratory which is very likely to sway the voters to an
emotional selection of those who are to fill the responsible positions of the university, instead of a carefully considered
selection based on a thorough investigation by each voter of the
qualifications and past record of achievement of each candidate.

We all regret the fact that there is a separation between
the campuses of our university, that often makes it difficult for
the student te know all the people for whom he is voting. It
frequently causes him to vote for a poorly-qualified candidate
whom he knows, rather than a well-qualified one with whom he
is not familiar. Campaigning and platforms do not provide the
answer to this problem. Whereas under the present system one
Council is. very much like all its predecessors in types that go
to make it up, in its sincere desire to act at all times to the best
advantage of the students as a whole, and in its conservatism;
under a system of intensive campaigning, sooner or later the
wrong men are going to be swept into office on the strength of
a few impassioned speeches. So that is not the answer.
Co-operation is the only platform which has any truth or reality,
and the only one that promises any benefit to the student. Let
us then make it our business to break down these artificial
barriers between the campuses. The duty of the student who
wishes to have only the best qualified people in the highest
positions of his university is to vote, not because a candidate
is In Medicine, or Law, or in Arts and Science, and for that
reason only; but rather because of his individual merit, regardless of his faculty. It is not the duty of the candidate to
make himself known through campaigning, but of the student
to know, by careful thought and investigation, for whom he
votes.

INTELLECTUAL MODESTY
(Contributed )

When will we learn to push the bowl] of bread and milk
that we are eating from us? When will we eat instead the
real food of men? We are living on pap, we college students.
We are too afraid, or else too indifferent to discuss those thing's
which are at the root of all life—love and art and religion and
philosophy. “It is ‘not done’,” we say. O ye Gods! Yet, while
we scratch the sands of learning like young chicks just hatched
from their shells, the great guns are booming across the sea,
shattering into ruins your civilization and mine.

Into the school-room filled with intellectual modesty comes
the voice of a woman. A woman who suffered continually from
ill-health, and who spent the greater part of her life on the
farms and in the small towns of South Africa. A woman who
said about her greatest book, “The worst of this book of mine
is that it’s so womanly.”’ Now let us see what this ‘womanly’

_bookhas to say about religion, and love.

“The true atheist is of necessity no longer the man who
denies a knowledge of an unknown and unseen personality, but
rather a man who believes that by juggling with facts he can
outwit the Universe and make that which he knows is not as
if it were; .... and the sin against the Holy Ghost—the sin
which hath no forgiveness—is the conscious wilful blinding of
our own eyes to any form of reality.”

“The love which is not planted on naked sincerity, which
needs subterfuge and self-deception and the deception of another for its life, is a plucked flower stuck into the sand: what
matter how soon it dies—it has no real life.”

“Prostitution, especially the prostitution of men of themselves to their most brutal level, can’t really be touched till
man not only says but feels woman is his equal, his brother

- human to whom he must give as much as he takes, and the
_ franchise is one step toward bringing that about.”

read those searchings after truth without blanching
uncomfortable, then any charge of intellectual

| 1 y is entirely without foundation.

   
  

G i td 1 big 7
ew ae a hae |
+s he wit eh oe U8 iy . , + Reals ‘5 est A ant
: mua be? Wutha Ae Tre 11s ik che &
4 ‘° I ‘| _ A ‘ ’ \y J WJ ~ .%
DM MAREPEOUTU OAT ati) et
A as SP ves ; a a ae eh eas, ke i‘?
iy 5 Ai i i oe he 7

af oh ‘
Seta re eee Sa wr NE ue lt

 

et

DALHOUSIE

The BOOK SHELF

HULALVQOLOVONINONOUSNSRLNS0 ALA DANSON ALN LASERS

“The Homely Slighted|"

 

Shepherd's Trade”

 

Of recent months our” patriots
have been awaking and filling the
newspapers with: warnings — warnings meant to unify Canadian senti
ment for the duration of what looks
to be a desperate world-struggle.
Russia is receiving a large share of
the censure of the Press; Canadians
are being taught, by Colonel Drew,
and others to see Russia as a vast
country which is but slowly throwing off the shackles of barbaric
wickedness. That much of this
anti-Russian talk is true I do not
doubt. A glante at Russian-history
is enough to ‘show the rudeness of
Russian civilization, but that glance
also calls the student’s attention to
a few facts that make him hesitate
to speak of a‘rnude culture as a low
culture. Oné of the faets is this:
Russia has produced, and is producing, great music. If this fact does
not seem extraordinary to you, may
I recall you to 4 study of Canadian
civilization? Read books, or look
about you in daily life, and ask
yourself, “Does not art play any
part in Canadian life?” So far as
I have observed, the only Canadian
art that arouses any enthusiasm
among average Canadians, is the
work of our schools of ,painters,
Music, in spite of the abundance of
people who take piano lessons,
means almost nothing in our lives I
cannot give any satisfactory reason
why this is so; perhaps we are too
prosperous, .perhaps we think too
much instead of feeling, or we mistake feeling for weak sentimentality (like the..writers of popular
songs.) But’ “whatever the reason,
I think we must bear in mind this
defect and value the total of our
cultune, and Russian eulture accordingly. I am not trying to draw a
comparison. between Canadian and
Russian civilization to the advantage
of Russia, but only to call to mind
the emysterious phenomenon of art
in the life of a nation. We in Canada have benefited greatly by British common sense and political
genius, but who could say of Canada

| What Havelock Ellis said of Russia

im 1914: “It is the genius of MousSorgsky which all these things so
magnificently interpret, And Moussorgsky typifies the genius of Russia:/ a gigantié untrained child,
strong and playful and spontaneous,
manifesting itself with a mag nificéntly original energy, and yet
with the child’s naive simplicity,
Sweet and enormous. . . . That is
the gettius of Moussorgsky . That is
also the Genius of Russia,” Could

anyone tell me what is the Genius
of Canada?

 

I've Lived Enough

I’ve lived enough; why should T still
strive on?

Well, twenty-four eternal years ago

A woman, scarcely older than myself,

With sweet intention took the path

along

dizzy brink

precipice,

Endured the agony of clinging to its
ridge

That I through her might live.

The

of life’s high

Throughout these four-and-twenty
endless years

She has kept watch of everything
I’ve done,

Rejoiced for every small success of
mine

And sorrowed for my injuries and
wrongs,

The woman gave but half the love
and care

That tended me with such solicitude,

A strong, brave-hearted man was
with her, too,

Co-author and protector of my life.

A double duty his, to guide my steps
aright

And to secure contentment for us
both,

Throughout these four-and-twenty

weary years

Of,the sun beyond the coast,

GAZETTE February 29, 1940

For C.A.S.F. Overseas only

$1.00 will send 300 Sweet Caps
to a Canadian soldier
Address: —"“Sweet Caps"’

labor has sustained my every

day,

Supplied. my many needs; he oft

denied

Himself to give the pleasures I
desired.

If thése, apart from my peculiar
self,

Can joy in their accomplishment
through me,

For whom. each conscious sacrifice
was: made,

Then how “can LT ‘repay such tender
care

Except by striving.on as best I may

To justify their pride.

“Let your cares float away on a song.”
* Accompanied by a Sweet Cap of course.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

Throughout,afiother four-and-twenty r
“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.

 

years,
Or twice that number, if they wish
it so,
May I go 6n, to prove their enterprise,
To them at least, a noble work well |
in ae MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED

TT

DRUGGISTS

;

Reflection Headquarters for Students’ Requirements

1 love windows, but best of all \I
love the window in the old town
hall. In memory I see it clearly
still: a bit of tracery in old brown
wood, curved in a simple Gothic
arch, the moonlight streaming
through, its silver flood subdued by
glass as delicate as the wind-blown
clouds of Mareh. So familiar was
its simple beatity, like the blue of
August skies, or the vivid green of
June’s wood lawns, that its absence
lends a sweet appeal to which I was
quite adamant while in the presence
of its loveliness.

Other windows present to view
the richest mosaics of leaded glass,
imagery in colored light of jewelled
brilliance; other windows permit
vistas which fill the heart with
quick delight, bringing joy to
weary eyes, to minds so cloyed with
sordidnéss that the pleasant vision
seems, by sheer contrast, a bit of
heaven. But none ever will be as
precious to me as that blind arch of
light, for it watched over a moment
of perfect contentment which I
shall never forget. Through it the
silver light of evening shone upon
the face that is dearest to all the
world to me. Window, moonlight,
evening shadows, shared with us
the magic communion of our
thoughts, our words. A quiet peace
pervaded all our world, We knew
in that brief space a paradise divine,
flooded with soft radiance, vibrant
with a lingering melody, soothed by
the incense of fresh growing flowrs. Profound happiness filed my
soul. Could such perfect joy live on
then heaven would indeed come back
to earth.

The moment ended, we moved
away, and left the lustre of that
window in the past. Still its pale
shadow of light stays with me. I
cldse my eyés to see it once again
as it grew upon my vision then. I
hear in memory the music of a dear
voice, and the fair spirit of that
happy moment returns to bless my
day; returns, called from the past
by the vision of a simple Gothic
arch aglow with the silver of summer moonlight. Erin

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

Ask For

FARMERS’ ICELAND BARS
A DELICIOUS REFRESHMENT

“Taste the Difference”

FARMERS’ LIMITED

HALIFAX, N.S.

 

Winter Sports

Good Appetites

for Lunches
then:

The
Green Lantern
for good foods

407-409 Barrington St.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest
Restaurant”

Dinner

Join Your Classmates!

|
|
|
and Confectionery
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

     

Halhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

  
       
   
   
         
     
       
       
     
    
     
     
    

Maintains a high standard of scholarshi
Includes all the principal Faculties of 2 8 i i
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Santen Camis.

 

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized :
MA. MSc. nuns leading to degrees of

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships,

EVENING SONG
By_K. A. R.

I shall walk home tonight.

In the crisp and crunching snow,
By the white path, I’ll' go
Through the trees.

And I'll watch the dying glow
on e

As the darkness, creeping, goes ye See
Close beside me, like a ghost.

The Professional Faculties
And I shall linger, as I please. in

 

Law, Medicine, Dentistr , en} :

I shall walk home alone, Autre ae ier
And my dreams shall be my guide,
As the frail new moon hangs

In the blue,

And perhaps I’ll make a wish

  
  

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course Average about $160.00 a year;

in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

ret meee wiivths watt

me like a spar : :

From some great eternal fire. ero a ee en Seer we

And I shall wish for everlasting 7 = facilities for men.

youth.

 

 

 
ey . eV

I e? %
\ ¥

+

   
  
  
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
      
    
   
   
   
  
   
    
    
   
  
  
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
     
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
    
  
   
   
  
     
    
  
    
   
     
  
     
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
    
  
     
  
     
   

i!
i

Dalhousie’s « «
~ who's who.
aw

il icncresasecetiestiarieaenemenniniomensey

7 J ‘

p
4
oe}
4

WEBSTER, MacDONALD
Arts 40

The Co-Ed issue just couldn’t be
“tops” without some mention of the
opposite sex and without any hesitation we feel sure that Webster
MacDonald is worhy of such an
honour.

Born in Kentville, N. S, Webbie
started his academic career in his
home town, furthering his studies in
3 Montreal and Kings -County Academy. In the fall of 1937 he entered
Dalhousie, with an entrance scholarship as a student in Arts taking an
Honours Course in Public Administration.

On the field of sport Webster
ranks high. In the last two years
he thas capably played on both the
senior rugby and hockey ° teams.
Badminton is another sport he has
well in hand. In boxing he displays
the ability of knowing “how to
throw his punches.”

A few weeks ago the title role of
“The Swashbuckling Romeo” in the
tragical farce of ‘Romeo and
Juliete” written by Lincoln Fraser,
was well portrayed by Webster
“who startled the audience with his
vocal efforts in the best classical
style.”

Last but not least one must mention his literary ability. The first
year at college Web was editor of
the King’s College Record, the sec' ond year brought a $200 prize for
"winning the “James DeMille Essay”
competition and this year he is editing a Gazette that is far above
average, The editorials Webbie
pens are really worth reading!

Next year Web hopes to take law
and we feel sure that it will be just
another step along the road to success. After that who knows—perhaps the love of journalism shall
entice him from a law practice or
ny maybe the civil service will claim
» him or perchance too he shall sit in
_ the House of Commons at Ottawa
ae translating a sound philosophy into
active life. Whatsoever it shall
) be we wish him the best of luck and
- happy landings.

 

ey Sign onthe door of the bathroom
oy in my boarding house:

PLEASE CLEAN TUB
AFTER BATHING
LANDLADY
Sheaf.

 

 

“PERSONAL”

When your gift is
mounted with the Dalhousie crest, you make
it truly a personal.

gift.

Arrange with Birks
for this exclusive service.

yy
7 Sa.
5
a
3
. 7
ea
A a o
J
1

ih. Halifax, N. S.

TT
ee

— irri Ts ae ATET ET alec LANE F 9
EP) RE, Wee ee are Ng? SM pe Y
Oto Te re !
: Peet on Ye re
i@ 7

.

=:

 

MINNIE MOO FROM MUSQUODOBOIT

 

The Strange Adventure of Minnine Moo; or
Yah! Yah! Yah! Said the Little Fox

¢

 

Filled with determination and
Saguenay Specials, Minnie Moo de
cided to track the insidious arch
fiend Rufus Rayne to his lair. Following a trail of eerie greenish mist

| | down Wubber MacTunneled she soon

arrived at a dank cavern lighted.
only by the fitful gleams ‘from
Meeter Beneath’s nose.

“Aha”, shrieked Boob Lateman,
“T am lost—Shady Hawkins has
found me at last!” “Not so,”
eackled our intrepid Minnie, “Throw
another nickel on the drum and fol,
low me!”

Saying which she picked a New
Rolls Royce out of Boob’s hat, and
the trio rolled merrily along a tunnel filled with a weird greenish mist
(see above) and the blood-chilling
wails of the despairing ones who had
sat in vain by their telephone waiting to be asked to the “we want
fellas” dance.

They emerged into the bright
moonshine, to find Batty Blug and
Fretty Barnone chasing each other
ecstatically around a grassy plot,
made up of six delicious flavors and
four out of five can have it. Just
then Wheezy Dishup darted’ out of
the underbrush, wrapped the Old
Oaken Bucket around Fretty’s neck
and led him away screaming, chanting as she went, in her hand-organ
like voice, “Who’s afraid of the
CS. Act”

“Aha”, chortled, sereeched, cackled, gurgled, and roared the voice
of Cuddles Bloomer, coming from a
passing radio car, “has anyone seen
my pal Hanky Weird One—or any
reasonable facsimile?”

“There ain’t no such animule,”’
hissed Gone Wishwell, the sly dog.
Just then a loud noise of osculation
ushered in Fanny Anderlittleboy and
Jean Singe’em, screaming “Happy
Birthday to us!”, and beckoning to
the whole Bed School (Blease exeuse the bad code id by head),

A wailing cry from Batty Blug,
who by this time had recaptured
Fretty signalled the arrival of
Shady Hawkins. It’s our Shady,”
croaked Batty hoarsely. As the
girls fell on grateful knees to their
benevolent deity, the boys disappeared into a thin greenish mist—
all except Cuddles Bloomer who
cowered under a lotus leaf, mumbling distractedly, as he picked the
petals off a shun flower, “Olga—
Marjorie—Olga — Marjorie—” until
the nice men in the white coats
came and explained to him the
error of his ways, and stubbornly
refusing any substitutes, carried
him away—still muttering.

Saddened by this tragedy, the
happy group hysterically, and hopping on the back of a passing chill,
trembled down the tunnel in search
of Rufus Rayne, the despicable
dirty dog who had done this desperate deed. Suddenly 6,394 pairs of
fiendish eyes glared at them from
the warm, scented darkness, accompanied by a burst of maniacal
laughter—

Will the little red fox eseape the
vengeance and return next week?
Will Rufus ever forgive | Minnie?
Will anybody ?

 

[LLLP es

Fraternities

 

Pi Beta Phi

Many people cannot understand
why the Women’s Fraternities on
this campus are not called “sororities”, It seems fitting at this time
to explain that a sorority is only a
local club, whereas a women’s fraternity is an international organization.

At the 1934 Pi Beta Phi Convention a group of Dalhousie women

students presented their petition, |

and prospectus for affiliation with
this oldest International Women’s
Fraternity. These girls, members
of the local sorority Sigma Theta Pi
received their charter in the same

| year, and Nova Scotia Alpha Chap
ter was installed at this University.

 

 

.

Since that time the Fraterniy has
rapid'y expanded in both membership and activities. Various members have been outstanding in student activities such as Glee Club;
Delta Gamma, Students Council and
Debating.

Each year the Chapter as a group
has entered into philanthropic work
by giving services to the Children’s
Hospital, or some other local charitable institution, :

The International Fraternity
maintains a Settlement School in the
Appalachian Mountains as a memorial-to the Founders of Pi Beta Phi.
This school is supported by voluntary contributors from Alumnae
Chabs' and. actvie chapters.

Many Pi Phi’s have distinguished
themselves: individually in Student
activities such as Shirley Kirkpatrick, the first woman vice-president
of the Dalhousie Students Council
and Peggy Merkel, Life Vice-President of the class of 40. Katherine
Robinson... won. the Panhellenic
Award last year and Daphne Christie is the Secretary of the Arts and
Science Societys Among the few
women graduates of Dalhousie Law
School, Pi Beta Phi has had two

members Margaret Drummie and
Merle Purtill,

 

Alpha Gamma Delta

Alpha Eta chapter of Alpha
Gamma Delta received its charter
of incorporation in 1932. It was the
first woman’s fraternity on the
campus to enter an international,
having formerly been a local sorority, Kappa Kappa Sigma whose
members became the charter members of the new chapter. Amongst
well-known local alumnae are Aileen
Meagher, who ran in the Olympics
in ’32 and ’36 and in the British
Empire Games in ’34 and ’38, and
Eirene Walker who was sent as a
delegate ot the Canadian Youth
Congress held in Winnipeg last
summer. On the campus this year
as assistant to Professor Douglas in
the geology department is Helen
Belyea, who is a member of the Malcolm Honcur Society.

Alpha Gam maintained as its altruistic work, two summer camps
for underprivileged children, at Welland, Ontario and Jackson, Michigan.
Two Alpha Etas, Vivian Douglas
and Mardi Sehwartz have served as
workers at Welland camp.

Every two years an international
convention is held to which Alpha
Gams are sent from campuses all
over the States and Canada. Last
June a convention at which Ethel
Mackenzie was a delegate was held
at Spring Lake, New Jersey, This
year besides the usual social activities many important events have
taken place in the chapter, One of
the most important was the founding of a Mother’s Club, which plays
a friendly and important part in
the life of the chapter.

In extra-curricula activities at
Dalhousie Alpha Gam is well represented by Carly Sullivan as manager
of the girls’ tennis team; Dot Mackenzie as manager of the ground
hockey team; Marjorie Manning as

assistant manager of the basketball
‘team on which four Alpha Gams

play; Barby Schwartz as secretary
treasurer of Delta Gamma Society
and Kay Hicks and Ethel Mackenzie as members of Midlothian.

Kay Hicks has also. been prominent in Glee Cllb\ shows as well as
8 member of the Students’ Council.
This enthusiastic turn-out for the
different activities shows the sup
port and esteem Alpha Gam gives
to Dalhousie,

~~

 

 

Seen on a door at Shirreff Hall:
_ Us is broom mates;

We sweep together;

Dust us two.

 

Confucius say (now don’t be
alarmed!)—“Man who crosses ocean
twice without taking bath is dirty
double crosser.’”’

Sheaf.

 

 

 

Meow-w-w

EE EE EE a a a a a a ae a a ae
Sn

The doings at the Junior Prom
this year would be a delight to any
columfist’s heart —we feel terribly
sorry that the “Little Pig” can’t
take advantage of it.

Wehear, among. other things, that
Johnny and Marie. forgot,..where
they were going and ended up in a
saxophone. It is often advisable to
keep the eyes open while dancing—
even if it’s more fun the other way.

Several of the dancers were seriously disturbed to see, in place of
the usual pink ‘elephants, two
screens advancing up the dance
floor. What—or whom—were Jack
and Mary hiding from?

Pete MacCreath trickled in—and
we mean trickled—with a new lovely tucked securely under his wing
——none other than our own Bob
Maitland!

And among the other unexpected
guests. was one Charlie Roberts—
unexpected even to himself until
very late, we are told. Could. the
old flame be burning again?

* * &

So much for the Prom. To get
down to more practical things, there
is that delightful tid-bit from the
Med School. It seems that the other
day the whole first year class rushed to one of the windows’”as one
man. The reason’?.Two pairs of
white rubbers. crossing thé»staid
Forrest. campus. .

* * =

The. unexpected happéned At the
Mock Parliament Tuesday night—
that august body was dissolved—
—in alcohol! They adjourned ta the
Cameo and entertained the eustomers with their witticisms and. high
young spirits instead.

* 5 4 *

Can it be jealousy that makes
Flit want to add his little bit to the
scandal column--even this weakened
feminine version of same?

* * *

We hear with pleasure about one
Bill Howe’s presence of mind in
time of stress—and under such circumstances, too! It seems that. just
when the long arm of the Law was
reaching to gather him in, Bill
fainted — or something —and then

 

 

made good his escape when the Law |

went to look for conveyance!
* * *

A Sigma Chi has been lurking
around the Hall these days where a
Phi Kap was wont to be. It seems
Strange that two from the very
same home-town should diseover
each other after all these years—
doesn’t it, Jeff?

* B a

It has come to our ears in a
round-about way that “Glamorpants” Ritchie is being solicited by

a well-known magazine to write an
article on “The Secret of My Suc-|'

cess; or, What Is My Strange Power
Over Women?” We have our own

theory—it’s that devastating blush!
ee  *

A certain red-headed young lady

was indignant about the alleged
slur on the Zetes last week. She announced to us with pride im her

voice, the “Only seven Zetes beat

eleven Phi Delts at hockey last Sunday!” All of which proves—what?
ft is hardly necessary to guess at
the source of Kissy’s interest in the
welfare of Zeta Psi.
+ * oa
To turn to more serious things,
we hear with much regret that hard
luck has caught up with Joan Bal
lem again. It’s been a tough term,|

Joan, but we’re pulling for you and
are looking forward to seeing you

around..the campus again before}

long. !
BEAST rd ee i ER EE

College men, call at COLWELL’S
on | Street for all your
clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all ocecasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

Our new stock is now complete.

€.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accesseries.
COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

|ship?

MEDICA

a a

 

 

SE - i
——

An epidemic broke out in Med,
faculty last week. There were several cases of “new female friends.”
Claude and Archie were among
those at the dance with this serious
affliction. What would that Green
Gables girl think, Claude?

Rod appeared at the basketball
game with his little Saint John attack. It happened on the train,
says he. :

Speaking of Saint John reminds
me—Did Kent Irwin make the
Gazette after his whirlwind courtJane came to the fraternity
formal planning to stay a few days.
‘About two weeks later she went
home with a fraternity pin. Congratulations Kent! She is pretty
special.

These days the Sadie Hawkins
dance and elections are uppermost
in-our thoughts. There are so
many ‘“han’some, romantical Li’l
Abners” stamping about the Med.
school that Daisy Mae and Sadie
should have quite an exciting time
tracking down the right one for
March 6. Do you hunting early
fella’s!

Now I can pick up the torch and
carry on from last weeks’ column,
Remember the author suggesting
every voter should personally investigate “the records and merits of all
eandidates for election’? That is
important.

This whole business of elections is
important although a nuisance. For
one thing it is the beginning of
political life. Your vote this year
is a factor in the molding of next
year’s course of events.

Beware the candidate who sudden showers attention on everyone.
Pay: no attention to those working
for him. Decide for yourself what
man is big enough for such a responsible position as President of
the Students’ Council. Then build
Up a good group around him, not

a
Shaves - Hair Cuts - Shines
The Best of Service
Student Business a Specialty

PUBLICOVER’S

LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

 

ERE ME EE EE A EE

- MATERIA |

-_ _ ee

Page Three

 

    

 
 

the

third estate

Woman’s Place in Modern Society

Jean Burnham, Ist year Medicine
— ‘A woman’s place is in the home.
Career? Career be damned!”

John Wiswell, Ist year Medicine
—"“A woman’s place? A woman is
merely an accessory something or
other to accede to the wishes of
man—anyway she is is always trying to get what she can out of a
man!”

(Columnist’s note: Oh, Johnny—
Oh, oh!)

Jeff Gillis, 2nd year Law — “A
woman’s place is in the home—
absolutely!”

Louise Bishop, Arts *42—“There
just isn’t any particular place for
woman in the modern world—she’s
everywhere! Whoa—my name’s not
Sadie!”

Maureen Allen, 3rd year Law—
“There is a place in industry for
every woman—her job is to find it.”

Charlie Gordon, 1st year Medicine
—“A woman should be
pedestal.”

Helen Wentworth, M. Se. Student
—T’m torn between two opinions.
Is it in the home or isn’t it?”

(Columnist’s note:
asking you!)

put on a

Lady, we're

Bernie Graham, Ist year Medicine
—“It would be unwise to quote me
on such a subject.”

Madeline Evans, Ist year Law—
“Every woman should have a busmess training—but her pl
the home.”

Gordon Bethune, Ist year Medicine—“I don’t know what woman’s
place is—but I hope you can’t read
my mind!”

sess:

Rest !
yes men” but thinkers and active

workers, Do likewise with other
organizations.

Finally, trust to luck fellow stu
dents will have the sense to do the
same,

Ppt agit a SL In Ss
Insist on
Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. _B-6821

ace is in

FTO

| you have an afternoon off, we’ll enjoy having you

in\to see our selection.

We can promise you the

most exclusive selection in the City in Spring Coats

and Suits.

Do you ever have trouble selecting a hat? Let “Edith”

your personality.

design one for you alone to suit your face and match

MARITIME FURRIERS LIMITED

52 SACKVILLE STREET

sess
VUES AAR HLH

WHEN YOU NEED:

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
¥OU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

| KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

 

VSAM PRAY MU HH CVQLIUUDITOCUEPR TUT ANAT DH

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose,

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

16S HOLLIS ST. HALIFAX, N. S.

There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — You'll Enjoy It!

 

 
ee ane nee an
es | cae Wem te ey 3) |
» 4 ‘oe ~ Le wy

i, ‘ \ ; ; 7 p45

  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE February 29, 1940

 

 

 

 
  
 
  

 
 

a howling success this year. There
are five new players on the team
who have nevér played varsity basketball before. We have lost three

By MARG MACINTOSH

Joan Blackwood, forward, captain, | last year for BAL.

3rd year on team, From Glace Bay
where she trained on boys’ rules. A
good dependable forward.

CO-ED INTERVARSITY BASKETBALL TEA

Dal girls’ basketball has not been,

|... ptew..minutes, had piled up several baskets.

ed

M

 

5

Mary Johngon: F¥é

 

 

in league games; <2” 5)
Reta Harrison: Oxrd.year on team.

 

  

~ | night they dropped the final game of a sudden death series to
4 Acadia by a score of 34-29.

fast and did some spectactular shooting. Bundy was outstand
a 16-8 for Dal. |
| | open.

‘ }seorer for Dal’and Brannon starred for Acadia. |

 

  

Malhousie Plays In Intercollegiate Basketball

\ca

2 This year for the first time in the history of Dal. the Tigers |
‘have been entered in the N. S. intercollegiate league and last

   
     
       
 
 

 
   

New Method

Watch $]
Cleaning | gies
Guarante ye
Main Springs, $1.00

OXFORD

Jewellery Store |
575 Barrington St. @

eo

In the-first half the Dal squad showed us one of the best
games they have ever played. They controlled the play, broke|

ing and high scorer when the whistle blew—the score being

  

 

After half time Acadia put on a drive and within the first
| Dal failed to use|
‘their slow safe play to guard their lead and left Acadia wide)
a. Perhaps it was the beautiful fluke shots the Axemen|
tossed that broke the Dal spirit, but the Tigers lagged and didn’t
get up. to top play again.

“Clutch MaeKimamie played a superb game and was high

 

Capitol

Continuous, 1 to 11 p.m,

 

Acadia: Titus 8, Cameron, Morton 4, Lawson, Camp,
Murphy, Barr 7,.Bayne 5, Brannen 10.

Dal: Seaman; MacKenzie 3, Bundy 8, Hart 2, Charman,
Smith, MacKimmie 12, MacKenzie 4.

Dalhousie

Badminton

MARLENE DIETRICH and
JAMES STUART in

 

“Destry Rides Again”

*
COMING TUESDAY

_ Dal is sending a team to Acadia |
‘in the near future.
| The who have most
| quently represented the college are:

girls fre
 

intercollegiate games, Carly Sullivan: forward, 3rd year|Our best gu wd, good intercept- By HAZIL BROWNHILL | Marjorie MacIntosh, Hazel Brown- FEATURE ATTRACTION
Acadia vs Dal at Acadia ....44-10] on varsity team. From St. Stephen |ing. From . JA, dist team, All |hill, Olga Mounsey, Joan Black- RONALD COLMAN in
U.N.B. vs Dal at Dalhousie ..25-19|where she also played boys’ rules|forwards quail before her, © - |wood, Daphne Christie, Yvonne «“ .

Acadia vs Dal at Dalhousie ..23-18|and was captain of the high school Daphne Clatke: Freshette. “From Badminton has proyéd a popular Mounsey, Ruth Faulkner, Marjorie The Light That

 

In the games with Acadia we|team. Best shot on team. H.C.A. where She played guard...” Is sport this season. Dal has teams in Parkes, Marian Moore, Penny Pat- Failed“
were handicapped by the absence} Mary MacKeigan: Freshette,|sub, forward on Dal team . Needs she Halifax et League, and) hell, Peggy Gorham, Jean Mac- °
of one of our forwards due to sick-| played formerly on H.C.A, team asj more experie e. fger errs: Feonle 5 peagae, BIVINS os Donald, Shirley Kirkpatrick, Reta
ness. guard, Plays forward, very quick| Kay Hicks:' First year on Dal|SUdents excellent practice and fun.) 1. ion Mary Doull and Kay Rex. Special Added Hit
On the whole the team is fairly|and a fair shot. team. From Bloomfield where she In McCurdy Cup days only eight | Maureen Allen, being a Maritime “THE MARCH OF TIME”

strong but needs more team prac
Barb. Schwartz: played on first

was centre player. Has makings of

students -were on the, team, the

title-holder, was unable to compete presents

 

 

 

tice. The passing is ragged. They|team two years ago, had to drop|good guard but\needs to keep her others bene members ofthe Alumni.) «| ine Church League, but we hope hs z
should be careful about fouling.| out last year on account of sickness.|eyes open. \ Clyde SREEEY is Coach and can be) ., pave her in the Intercollegiate Canada at War
Five times girls have been put off| Plays interchangeably as guard or| Marj Manning‘ Another new Pee SARE sy eaistagon S1VINS | matches.

for this crime, despite the efforts| forward. Is a fair shot, when play-|guard on Dal téam. — Played at very beneficial instruction.

of Miss Wray to polish her rough
diamonds.

ing guard is inclined to desert her
woman.

   

Edgehill. Needs prectice in jumping. Is our assistant manager. ~~

 

An American
Physical Education

Program
By PHIL WRAY

What if you had not come to Dalhousie? What if you had chosen
some other university at that moment of deciding: for instance, one
of the co-educational colleges across
the southern border.

You would find yourself confronted with this question, amongst all
the others. Three periods a week of
physical activity must be attended.
It is the fall season, so you may
choose tennis, hockey or archery.
Add to this one hour of personal
and social hygiene. Then when winter comes you goin for winter sports
or gymnastics or volley ball for two
periods a week, and folk dancing
for the third.

A rather different range of activities present themselves in early
spring. There are hikes and cabin
parties at camp; badminton, ping
pong, bowling or games such as deck
tennis, shuffleboard, paddle tennis
In the last spring term you return
to archery or tennis or perhaps
swimming and life-saving.

As .a sophomore you have the
same choices for your three periods
a week, but you do not take hygiene. When you attain the status
of junior you may choose riding,
stunts and tumbling, tap dancing or
modern dancing.

the first time a Maritime girls hae
At the first and last of each year eke Oo uae
; league has been formed in which R 30th ANNIVERSAS
you ‘have a thorough physical ex- U.N.B. could enter a team. A con
amination and also a medical one.
Any bad condition, injury or illness
is checked closely. You find yourself in a health conference with you
as the subject, and your parents
find themselves with reports of your
health on their hands.

The Women’s Athletic Association
sponsors all sports and athletics and
a great number of extra curricular
activities. There is a tea and a banquet, a hare and hound chase; a ski
week-end and a house party, and
snow hikes and delightful week-ends
to a cabin on your own camp
grounds. .

They get together with the boys’
association and have such things as
Health Week and riding breakfasts.
They have a freshman inspired
sports tour, and you are amazed at
the two gym floors, the fine tennis

_ courts, the three games rooms, the

two cabins; and the equipment that
is there for your use in any game.
As all these events are under stu
 

| Girls’ Sports Review

By RETA HARRISON

When Miss Wray first came to us
as full time physical instructress
two years ago girls’ sport at Dal
immediately took a jump and this
year it has continued to improve
and to inelude more girls. Much
of this has been due to Miss Wray
and we are grateful for her coaching ability and the interest she
| takes.

Although as yet this year the Dal
girls haven’t won any laurels in
their games they have nevertheless
had a great deal of good fun and
benefit from them.

In ground hockey they had a very
successful season—lots of interest
and also good weather. The usual
games with H.L.C. and Edgehill
were played and of course those
‘rarities’—the girls against the boys.
Those are more fun than a picnic
even if the boys don’t stick to the
rules,

Badminton has been growing
steadily at Dal during the past few
years and is still doing so. Since
the freshette have been started a
good foundation has been made for
future.players and more people are
playing.

The intercollegiate tournament
this week-end is a big step towards
bigger and better badminton st Dal.

Intercoliegiate basketball has been
going on for a long time but in this
too, an advance has been made. For

 

 

 

dent administration, you probably
have a part in planning them.

The big day for athletics and
physical activities is a huge demonstration staged by the athletic associations and the physical ed. department, of all the activities possible. The best teams play off, the
dance clubs present their work; the
tumbling club have their exhibition,
to make this traditional day the
biggest of the year.

On this day of review you look
at this year and find that your
social, physical, educational, recreational and academic educational
lives have become completely mixed
with each other. They are all one.

So there is a brief look at the life
an American girl chooses when she
goes to a typical co-educational
college.

*The physical education program
of Bates College, Lewiston, Maine.

stitution for this league has been

drawn up—mostly/due tof forts of.

Miss Wray and! Marjorie~“Maciifore c Ee

tosh. Recwopean)
The Dal team this year isixiot outstanding but it/is good: and still has
hopes of being on the top of the
league this year, BS Gees eee
Interclass basketball which was
started only last year is now an established institution, Thete is even

a

a

  

a cup donated! by our lovable Red
Payne. This league, . ‘which was
won by last year’s freshettes is still
undecided this ‘year, and as the
teams are very evenly matched, it

win,

CO-ED LOSE T0 ACADIA

 

f

 

Last Saturday afternon we saw
the Dal Coeds. put wp good fight
against the; Acadians, but luck was
against thém, one of the first’ live
forwards b “AW

 

   

   

 

es
rs

    
   

ithe beginners.

+.MacIntosh and Del Gibson

_ -this..week-end’s Intercollegiate touryney—the first ever“to be held. The
| finals will be played Saturday even
is hard to tell which ‘is going to

j awarded before long, as the players |

  
    
 
  
 
 
   
     
  
   
   
    
    
  
  
 
    
       
   
    
 
 
 
 

Prof; Mercer has a class for girls
on Fridays. Phyl. Wray is teaching
Those who don’t
learn to play can only blame themselves,

The ‘students’ cup tournaments
‘are well under way and Should be
finished by Munro Day. Marjorie
should

Vas

 

take the singles events.
Much interest is being shown in

ing in the gym on specially laid-out
courts, . We would like to see a|
good crown to witness these excit-|
ing sets. Mt. A, and Acadia will be,
represented and Dal will put in a|
strong team. |

The Executive of the.D. A. A. C.|
have. passed a constitution whereby
Badminton will become a minor
‘sport and for three felt “D’s” a silver “D” will be awarded. This is|
expected to become effective this
year. D:G.A0C. will have a meeting
‘soon to discuss a similar: constitu- |
tion, We hope to see gold “D’s” |

 

certainly have more matches to|
turn out for than in any other sport.

,

 

one of the Acadians were put off
the floor for fouls and Dal: had to

easel a

 

Here Are The Clothes That Make
The Difference In Your Appearance!
Custom-Tailered-to- Your-Measure

500 New Spring and Summer Patterns
Now Showing At Your TIP TOP Store

$27.50

STORES AND

DEALERS EVER YWHER®G

meee we):
a TAILORS

422 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 
