   
 

Tae SE RE A ee eg a TE EE a la ge line ee at kien eS
wy . a ee. |. ‘ x a" 1 ~ Pi ~ a 4 a

 

lel a
4 ai .
is.
ri 7 : DP a

j a gt) ie ‘8 ay ‘ i al : : F
Se ae Poe Rieti won a0

An Open
Invitation

Player’s Guild
Organization
cr Meeting
Tuesday

  
   
    

 

Evening 8.30
Murray
Homestead

 

     

s

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 10, 1939 No. 6

Page triste WHO SERVED
meeeer IMROSE WHO FELL

rine Till The Day Dawns
‘Still Stands Thine Ancient Sacrifice’ hid The Baibars

  

  
  

"Warrior
By EDGAR McINNIS
ep on, brave heart, they broken
sword beside thee!
Pea last red breach is stormed,
the last foe slain. .
ere is no strife nor sacrifice de
  

Flee Away

 
     
   
 

| Class 1911 ) William Doane
Harry M. Blois | LeRoy Lawrence

 
   

ie ‘trumpets call to fierce assault
ee again.

  

                

 
   
   
 
 

  

=e Mow with our bright blades oS ee oe | Ralph MacAloney
“ et dieathod oo. ee oe | George Syivd ester | Edward McCurdy
en And colours laurel-wreathed Se a ; | | Earl MacKenzie
_ We come, thy comrades in the ee 3 oe | Class 1912 | Charles Roche
athe trampling fight, © OS ene eee ee SS : | Graham Stairs

 
 

Edward Clayton

: ce “And bear thee with. a long proud

  

Wm. MacAskill

       
 
 

A eee
! ‘as ; song Mahon sk Class 1916
da To dee house of night. ene ee pre ,
“es » the : : John McQueen Nathan Chipman |
John C. Stairs harles Dawson — ‘
Harry McLeave
Claas 1913 Calvin Stairs, Jr.
Walter Billman
Geo. Cunningham Class 1917 a
Harold Smith n
John K. Swanson | Stephen Dick 4
John Lockerby 5
John McLeod :
l 1914 |
; age John S. Ross .
Cyril A. Evans Ivan E. Soule,
Oscar H. Kirk :
Neil A. McLean Class 1918

Thomas McLean
John B. Carson
Class 1915 Vernon Grierson

Carl N. Bennet Cyril Hyde
George Campbell | Henry Moseley

  

5s ey not wake to the wee!
ous morrow

- mocks our anguish and our}; =~  . | M4 :

| ae | ... And in the sky

Mn, hy daring and thy pain, : ad at

‘Thy youth for visions slain, | The larks, still bravely singing, fly

cs

   
     
  
   
 
    
  
  
   
    
  
     
   
   
 
  
  
    
 
     
    
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 

Ww ore crowned with honour in the

 

si _ ¢limson dawn, . "1 ot e
"And Death was to the end thy Scarce heard amid the guns below
i. i friend—
Ah valiant heart, sleep on.
is QUO VADIS — (An Editorial) A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT « .... FROM FALLING HANDS”
It borders on the ironical to celebrate tomorrow as Armis- ie: taeenaee ot A enn hes 7 aphaesd ” (Contributed )

~tiee Day. What a tragic farce it has_been over the past two! mings of those nit oe aT Wcieee it. 1512 < The “The passions of this world are not dead; the
dade . iii ae ‘li in ae icicles od Be ict annual celebration of that time has never, for them, been a| rivalries of this world have not cooled; they have been
re ee Ng oe SOU) om Inverauo holiday, nor a time of glorification. Twenty celebrations of the| rendered hotter than ever ... Unless there is sureness

. and at the same time pile up the instruments of human destruc_ tion at a rate unknown before in history: Now that this course
_ has reached its logical conclusion we may dispense with that

catoges a Were Reh te aercar of that recollection. wae of combined action before wrong is attempted, wrong
year the day falls in the third month of a new war—a war tha i te oes er

will be attempted just as soon as ambitious nations can
is called “strange”, because it seems to proceed according to no | be attempted just as soon as am

 

ceremony and celebrate tomorrow in remembrance of those] > conceived plan, or recover from the financial stress of war... and ima

: perhaps because so many prophets have
who Spe aga aur mowphe HE the present a ae been deceived. short generation our recent experience will be repeated.”’
B These men died in vain. The war they fought did not end ‘Let us at any rate make no mistake about it. To university Thus wrote Woodrow Wilson at the close of the last Great

Tr men and women, that is, to students of history, the issues| Way T tyv- r ld that
they fondly dreamed ae a a — Aerts Aa oeand be ee ae gt enemies are those who have sought to daretus aa eat mas Asie dasaragy lll dg os
yi world from the rule of force, the belief that gave them strength oe es . oe ae is > et ost eae cs nes Ww _ Shoot a thousand pee: less popular than the last is in progress.
and hope to endure the appalling suffering and boredom of four : n every country of the world the people profess a will to peace.
me iphrantly. wears, PP & & fight believing that truth, freedom, learning, liberty of con- Why then is there no peace?

, Science and h , : ; :
“Tt is to these idealists, to the brave and the sincere, that a ce pe. tan dignity are worth fighting ee ae ah Allied statesmen, after an episode of futile blundering and

 

ie Ee we will pay a tribute tomorrow. ia leen tin: visionless error have turned again to war to confine a madness
eo Since their efforts were brought to naught the awful g they encouraged; the League of Nations, enacting a travesty
ae "question arises, who was responsible for their failure? The CARLETON STANLEY. of truth has bowed its last. The torch that our lost generation
% ‘answer is two-fold. First, the non-combattants of all the flung us has fallen, and today, remembering the hands that
ee aus ennititien Siig Sanandad that thei-Cermans pay flung it, each of us should try to answer: “W hy then, is there
es the pips squeaked’, making a just peace impossible. 1863 1939 no peace?” Offered the privilege of writing for this occasion,

Bi Second, the predatory instincts of the big business interests Se the present writer presents his own view, humbly but without
are to blame, whose short-sighted and grasping tactics were It is for us the living rather, to be here dedicated to the| aPolegy.

_ to a great extent responsible for the last war, who frustrated | great task remaining before us—that from these honored 3 ae ne ai ms ings stage until 16 1s & People’s peace:

the workings of the League of Nations, and whose selfish | dead we take increased devotion to that great cause for eda SHE aes e must Agent the German people

| “attitude has been a farce factor in the present alignment |... - | x we say, (for blockading is essentially directed against nonin Europe. & en which they gave the last full measure of their devotion—| combatants as welt as soldiers) because they have followed

ne” There will be the same brave sacrifices made in the pres- that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have| blindly in the train of a lawless, plundering fanatic — because
he nt wat as in the last. There will be the same shocking waste | “ied in vain—that.this nation, under God, shall have a new|they have been sheep. But have not we too, been sheep? A
the finest men on both sides. If we are to prove ourselves | birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the adi eee CORSE) nearly nine-tenths of the world’s nickel,
than the last generation we will not create conditions| people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. indispensible to armaments, and the Canadian people have

ay in due ‘time will D Ou ak meleeeeriog | af misery cond: sheepishly allowed them to sell it promiscuously to whomever
i. ge i ring —Abraham Lincoln (1863 ) would buy and for what ever purpose, conquest and pillage not

Continued on Page Two

   

a eg
 

a ee

   
  

we hy

To a : Lover af Route

At a time when the pulse of our

eS eae material world is throbbing with
e's 4s aS the beat of restless hearts under the
- - 5B-3148 oppression and persecution that is
- - B-0698 being thrust upon them, it is indeed
| Pre fitting to remember one who sang
- «- B9746 of Beauty and Peace. Wherever
- -  B-1049 ‘man reads of beautiful thoughts

  

“McCurdy dy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle Street, Halifax. that are clothed in equally beautiful

: be | Verbal raiment, William Butler
ee a oes a me _Gasete ase fe ee re ee Yeats is remembered. Though his

poor ee, outlook varies somewhat in later life,
AN JIS- 7 though his later style seems _ to

araty students have a special task if the era of re- signify a feeling of coldness and
ruction which will follow this holacaust is to be a success-| disillusion, Yeat’s works remain a
one e rather er than a repetition of the disastrous mistakes | complete set of perfectly and care
Je. t the end of the first Great War. fully wrought tributes to Beauty.

oe Our first. task will be to maintain as dispassionate an atti- meee Wan bare wt Dublin in June
e Beaitie to the turmoil which surrounds us. As war- 1865. His childhood, divided between
ia mounts it will become more and more difficult to ex- Dublin and London, does not seem to
‘los ‘in a sane and objective manner. It was precisely have been an exceptionally happy

2 ilure to adopt this attitude that made possible the Cartha-|°me. Much of this discontent we
 ginian peace which followed the cessation of hostilities twenty-|><Heve existed within the child = gl
, one o 3 ait ago. This will be no easy accomplishment, as the in-|S¢!f, however, as he was not the
stitutions we have developed over the last two decades have victim of external unkindness. |
oy “made with the express purpose of catering to the mass The young Yeats lived in a fairy
‘ atl er than to the individual mind. The dissemination of war- land much of the time. His poetic
ropaganda and atrocity stories which foment the frenzy and|)recs ~~ Olsin, Red Hanrahan —

ot hatred, making possible a treaty: like Versailles, is infinitely eS oo S aoe os world
easier ‘toda: y than ever before. An honourable settlement will PP ekes a, j Ms ; aoe
et hs possible only if reason is allowed to dominate emotion. | 4nd the Dreatlt of the fury. Here
wa Our second aim will be to make collective security some-|¢ found satisfaction in his dreams.
re than a myth, something better than an instrument In fact Yeat’s fairyland has ce
one ng me th countries to use in power politics. This no doubt |# symbol for the Na sacha
__ealls for a new deal in Europe and elsewhere. An international eee NSA BO. carty Bnd 8
oe lice force and control of war materials, the satisfaction of thorough reader. He was Saba
Ua on ast edentist desires, a re-shuffle of property and population wil] | too, in meeting ie wee
x be the goals to work for if a new era is to be introduced. ae a tr : : father ;
. It is perhaps futile to end on a preaching note. Yet is must thoug ‘ ha doo eS oad
be remembered that all accomplishments will be in vain unless oe s “1 a period his = oe

: oe .new spirit of charity pervades the world. The militant Jehovah | &* ed works were not unti

tam New Testament God.| But just as Yeat’s early poetry
see oe oe presents the fascination for fairy
‘and as something inimical to life
in the real world, so these stories of
the life of estatic revery, unlike the
typical writings of the fin de siecle,
are edged with a consciousness of

R 202 : FALLING HANDS— dangers and temptations inescapably

ple of this continent admire China’s fight) involved in such a life.” Yeats inand hoy ye with all their hearts to see her win,! habits, in this phase, a world of
6 Jopan from Canada and the United pure intense emotions expressed in
vith fifty rcen of her_ munitions distinet fine images. His words, no

d the ock Act in matter how prosaic, are always
; | somehow luminous: and noble, as if
/ aes pebbles erected by the sea

  

Continued from Page One

  

    
   
 
  
 
 
    
   
    
   
      
   
 
  

  

Bs ne

 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 

a _ When the desire to create and to serve is paramount over the
desire to possess and frustrate, the idea of a lasting peace beee comes possible. Until then all other attempts will be merely

i at — to fall away at the first sign of strain.

Continued from Page One

-Peac one or eae When he returns to
g t the struggle for Rilke: oasis. as |the heroic world of Irish Mythology,
rim I strug sgle for peace. To truly|he describes it with a new homeliU g by those is fell i in the Jast Great War, ness of detail. And more and more
ele ae a waged on all fronts, in peacetime as in /steadily he fixes his attention on the
aking a sere’ was dropped when, after the first Armistice, | world about him. Now he finds his
ak the absence of war for the arrival of peace, we turned | subjects in the events of his own
< to 0 our r old. pursuits, riding as passengers while political |life, no longer transposed into
es manned the ship of state. Europe was abandoned to|romantic convention, and in the
ion and political turmoil while Jack Canuck, his handful | public affairs of Ireland. This means
De ople inhabiting half a continent and his magnates con-|that Yeats had definitely passed
rollir i untold wealth, congratulated himself that he and his|from the dream-world of his youth,
nei ghbor were not as other men, not unreliable and aggressive |into the reality of life during his
ik te . the peoples of the eastern continent. maturer years.
ces This is a plea that we of Dalhousie bethink ourselves as to| Yeats is extremely successful in
rs the part that we should play in bringing about a future peace.|dignifying such subjects, as per
Ak ek in an area where individuals, once threatened with

   
  

 
   
     
 
   
    
   
 

LL

It made war

; inevitable. The mieneh war is the
cer The struggle for existence need not always resolve itself | logical end of the western state sys
~* into the gospel of hate. Biologically those organisms are| tem since Versailles. A new imperi| rm _ successful which modify their environment so as to assist each | alist war has taken up where the
other. There is little virtue in dying for peace if we neglect to} Jast one left off.

live for it. The last word does not lie with the war-mongers;| Does this mean that men of good- |).
_ the falling hands, the lone fighters for great causes and the will must renounce the war as the
_ millions who suffer in silence—these will be redeemed when} means to a better world? Perhaps
_ you and I and the thousands who feel their nationality to be|not. We can co-operate with the
_ Mankind deny the sacrosanctity of vested property and unite| war effort of our country in that we
, pe in a great Creative Quest for Liberty and Peace. seek the destruction of the modern’

oR: ga system of sovereign states. And it
he Fight for Peace

may make for the destruction of
on those forces whose interest in pre_ May I say in advance that nobody serving the status-quo makes them
Ley is more dissatisfied with this article the implacable enemies of true de
- a ee ~ than I, The situation is so complex
wh ae it is difficult to know one’s own

   

 
 

se

e

& %

     
   
     
       
       
 

h oa
ys at

gressors are now charged with inconsistency because we refuse unconditional support to the AngloFrench war on Hitlerism. We pro
 

    
  
    
  
 
  
  
  
 
      
 
    
    
 
     

tested, only too feebly, the abandon- mocracy. But it is foolish to follow

ment of China and Ethiopia, and) plindly governments which have so
helped wage war in Epain against

Fascism. We said that the covenant| representatives of such interests.
of the League of Nations must be| We must aid any move that brings
implemented, and that the use of| the world even a step nearer to freenational democratic institutions and dom, equality, and brotherhood. We
the League could resolve the social can ¢co- operate with such moves
and international conflicts of our) while they are in the right, and
time. We did this" because we! break with them when they are in
thought that only this course could| the wrong.

lead to just and permanent peace.
We were idealists. Nonintervene other solutions; it simply|tion and Munich took the scales
hat this one exists. We of | from our eyes. Munich marked the
who for years have been end of collective security and the

aed a atond speninst ag-| League of Nations. It showed Rus- ee

ca a. a world of half-truths and
‘compromises one is seldom given a
pees choice between good and
ev . The lives of us all are so in: xt) eably bound up with both right
nd wrong that we are in no posi
tion to judge. And yet we must. ©

portant tasks to be undertaken. We
must try to preserve civil liberties

 
 

Continued on Page Five

  

Fs Perch

ARE at

   
  
      
         
   
 
     
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
    

ese no other contemporary poet
has done, and yet at the same time,
he never ceases to deal with them
without sentimentally and in the
plainest language. He seems always
to be conscious of antagonnism between the actual word of industry,
politics and science, on the one hand
and the imaginative poetic life on the
other. i

With the development of this
maturer style, it became impossible
any longer to regard Yeats merely
as one of the best English lyric
poets of the nineties. The author of
“Lake Isle of Innisfree” had grown
to the unmistakable stature of a
master.

Yeats is recognized as the leader}

of the Irish Literary renaissance.
Lady Gregory was ever his able assistant and it was with her help and
the help of others that he founded
the Abbey Theatre. The “Countess

Cathleen” was produced in Dublin

|

often in the past proved to be the|

:
Meanwhile there are several im
in 1899 and about the same time the
Irish National Theatre was founded.
For the opening of the Abbey
Theatre, Yeats wrote “Cathleen in
Houlihan”. As the director and
propagandist of. the Abbey Theatre,
Yeats does have considerable importance in the history of the
modern stage. His greatest contribution to the theatre has been, not
his own plays, but those of Synge,
whom in 1896 he discover@d in Paris
and induced to return to Ireland.
Yeats is both active and effective as
we know both from his works and his
industry in connection with mie Abbey Theatre.

The 40 volumes which Yeats has
given us contain poems, essays and
plays, all in beautiful English but
practically all with an Irish theme.
fn 1922, on the creation of the Irish
Free State, he was elected a Senator
and served for seven years. In 1923
he received the Nobel Prize for literature. One of the most individual
of poets, for himself he was a pure
artist, but for his country he was
the moving spirit in fostering a
literary movement that made Ireland
a home of lyric and dramatic genius,
one. of the pillars that uphold the

temple of beauty in the world.

Yeats believed in the true worth
of his work and clung tenaciously to

his ideals of art and his desire to

have the ordinary man read and ap
preciate great art as well as to enjoy

it. Critics have spoken of him as

being aloof and unapproachable.

But some of us do not find him so.

He looked and lived the poet he was.

Too, he was friendly and kind.

A pity beyond all telling

Is hid in the heart of love;

The folk who are buying and selling,

The clouds on their journey above,

The cold wet winds ever blowing,

And the shadowy hazel grove

Where the mouse-grey waters are
flowing,

Threaten the head that I love.

And now death has claimed the
poet. He kept his nature simple and
passionate, and perhaps he has gone,
like the last gleeman, to “find and

gather the Lily of High Truth, the}.

Rose of Far-Sought Beauty.”
G. E. M.

    
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
 

Capitol

TODAY @ SAT. @ MON.
Continuous Performances
Daily from 12.15 to 11 p.m.

NORMA SHEARER
JOAN CRAWFORD
ROSALIND RUSSELL

“THE WOMEN”
©

Continuous, 1.00 to 11.00 p.m.

AKIM TAMIROFF
DOROTHY LAMOUR
JOHN HOWARD

eS

 

at home; we must fight Anti-Semi- |
_we must try to,

“Disputed

Passage”

 

 

 

    
  
    
 
 
 
   

      

   
   
  

     
   

“Any objection to three on a match?”
*“Not if they're Sweet Caps.”

 

   
 

  
   
  
 

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETT ES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

   
 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED |
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

ee SS

SHOES

For College wear or for
the Dance are better at
WALLACE’S.

It’s Smart to Eat
After The Show

The Cameo chefs are preparing your evening “snack” as
the last scene fades out at
your favorite movie. Many
theatre fans like to come to
the Cameo and discuss the
picture in comfort.

THE CAMEO

35 Spring Garden Road

es lt a

The Student’s Shoe Store

Wallace Bros.

“Specialists in Fitting”

415 BARRINGTON STREET

 

“Palhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Sc.

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.
The Proféssional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

SPECIAL-
Enjoy the Game with Fresh Candy from the
Diana Sweets—

Moirs fresh made Chocolates ...a fine assortment of

Cherries, Burnt Almonds, Garaziels, Creams, Nougatines and Chips. They’re Good.

Regular 50c pound — SPECIAL 39¢

DIANA SWEETS

160 Spring Garden Road Halifax, N. S.

 
  
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Page Three

r Ye! Hear Ye! Attend the Law Ball

 

 
 

 

 
  
 
    
 
  
   
 

EVENING GOWNS ® @ @
|| @ © AFTERNOON DRESSES
|| @ @ SPORTSWEAR

We are showing a beautiful variety of Semi and Formal

Evening Frocks suitable for all College occasions.

Always something different at reasonable
prices

The Exclusive Style Centre

454 Barrington Street

 

 

 

4 The Winnie Mae Shoppe | = :
e Blowers Street Halifax = wantin Wh LAW BALL!

:

| In the Nova Scotian Hotel. GIRLS... you will want to look your
| =| y loveliest at the Law Ball, won’t you? Some| In the matter of the Ball held by the Law Society. ) ‘ Me, thing new—different. Call for your ap
pointment now—don’t be disappointed.

For The Law Ball

Let EVERYONE of Dalhousie University in the city of * ‘ ee 20% a
| YOUR Halifax within eight days after service of this summons on %... oF 7. e Dal-King’s Co-Eds.
| | 9 him, inclusive of the day of such service, cause an appearance Beef Alaa | Emile
| HAIR DO? to be entered to this summons, which is issued upon the ap- ‘

Hairdressing
Oxford Theatre Bldg.

Marquis, Manager

To be sure you'll look your best and plication of the Law Society of Dalhousie University in the city
smartest, have a Coiffure by one of our of Halifax for an order that:

experts. We’ll tell you about the bargains aoe tak :
in Permanents and all our services that All and sundry make an appearance in their best glad rags, ne MacLean, Prop.

we offer for November. It’s the month ||| with their best GIRLS in order that they may dance to J :
|

   

— 24% SPRING GARDEN RD
¥ F the presents.

that WE have a birthday and YOU get |!| Naugler and his music. Let all who read know, that Cabaret
Style will be the order of the evening, that many will be the
hearts that are gay and many the whistle that will whistle.
Know ye, that noisemakers will be present to enhance any
natural noises that may be forthcoming. Therefore, be it
ordered that ye keep Friday, November 17th, open for the
Law Ball.

Dated the tenth day of November, A.D. 1939.

 
     
     
   
     
     
    
     

BE THE BEST DRESSED

AT THE LAW BALL
IN AN EVENING WRAP
FROM THE
MARITIME FURRIERS

   
 
     

— ! .

We invite you to inspect our
new and varied assortment.

To all Students of Dalhousie and their friends.

   
   
   
   
         
        

  
 

Pr eA
a ee

See the new “Bouclé Wrap”
Velvet or Fur

Prices 23.50 and 45.00

FORMAL WEAR enone

This summons was taken out by Corporal Corky of Dal| housie, solicitor for the above named plaintiff.

   

ir A. PENDER, LIMYTED

ee

    

os nial TA

  

*

 

‘ co

us SS: Re ae Be)
=

FOR THE LAW BALL

oa oS See a oe
Here you will find everything for “Dress-up”

occasions, from tails to collar buttons. All
in the latest style and at most reasonable
prices.

EATON'S

Offers Correct Fashions My:

 

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

for the

LAW BALL

Once more we’re on the threshold of another gay season of
social activity ... and once
more it’s time to examine your
formal wear wardrobes with
critical eye. When you conduct
your examination remember
EATON’S is known for distinctive formal attire and accessories.

 

FORMALS -- for the Law
Ball

Send your formal wear to Cousins
today for dry-cleaning or pressing.

: —For the fairer sex we offer a —Footwear is important, and
You'll look better ... feel more

selection of new arrivals in the range of evening shoes

E evening gowns ... we invite s ; :

ct ke . . on the night of the vou'to won tine Witla danert. for milady is very appealing,

F W f ment is complete. both as regards stayle and

} Telephone L. 2323 ry Mu —No matter whether the men vaane.

prefer “tails” or tuxedos our —Complete range of all acces
bs ARGYLE Se clothing department is ready sories is featured at EATON’S
© with the season’s newest . « «. jewellery, gloves, ie

Trey Aad ey FAX models.

 

E ATO N o
The Dalhousie Student’s Printer ft, ea + Cosere

 

   
  

November 10, 1939

 

 

   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

CHAPTER IV

You Can Lead a Football Player to
Water But....
or

Who will buy the Gin for Breakfast?

 

Pandemonium was thrown for a
loss of six yards, third down ten to
go. Hateful Clutchins who was ensconced behind a pillar staggered
forth into center stage, grabbed the
slimy codfish and threw a forward
pass to Kissy wro recovered ran
around the scrum and into the
kitchen for a touchdown shouting,
“Huzzah We eat.”

“What will I do about Rufus
Rayne?” wimpered Minna as she extracted fish bones and cod liver oil
from her uppers.

“Let us roll him down to the distilling plant.” quoth Clutchins, gleefully. And for this crude remark he
was handed a free pass to the Frosh
Follies, a Glum Club Presentation,
by Laylow representing the nertses.
Clutchins was so astounded by this
amazing turn of events that he
reeled backwards into what proved
to be the bulky form of Little
Mickey. There was a resounding
slap and she quoth, “I would suggest
that you reserve your passes for the
football field, Clutchins my good
man.” After which she followed
with a series of left. hooks and well
aimed yo-yos to Clutchin’s kidneys.
Hatefull collapsed under this sudden
assault and was carried to an alcove
by two gated freshettes and Minna
who was muttering under her breath,
“Who says you can’t take it with
you?”

Outside the Haul Burning Gallstone and his troop of trained Tagers
aided by the erstwhile Catfish with
his wooden sword and cap-pistol,
were searching for Fizzleque because
he had broken the Frosh Regulations
Act: Chapter 10, Section il, subsection 49b. to wit; “failing to pro
ve sane to ring the |
te id but were ae (With malice towards all.)
One well known campus figure has
‘been accused of being the editor of
this column. Your reporter is very
grateful for the opportunity of hiding his identity behind his tall back.
What amazes us is how these rumors
start. This should develop into a
very interesting guessing game.

Instead of the Open Letter, this
|week, we are going to give the
Bronte Club a plug. The newest
dine and dance spot opened at the
Nelson last week. Your reporter
would like to comment on the evening’s festivities. “Playboy” Boyd
seems to be THE TALENT SCOUT
of this here area: He trots out one
lovely after another. His latest,
whom he showed off at the Club, had
“Big Time” written all over it and
we are informed that it hails from
New York.

Welcome Home, Marg Drummie,
we see the reason for Doug’s pleased
expression these days.

Ray Van Horne and Dave McCurdy also graced the Festive
Boardé,

We also enjoyed the facilities as.
presented by this newest spot. Undoubtedly the sudden popularity of
this “WELL” is due to these self
same facilities.

Despite the fact that through
ath He Herr Hitler’s machinations the price
5 ‘that the Wur-| of “preventive medicine” has gone
: table music. rather “up” we saw no evidence of

ing for, the petite at ee Med Ball. The vide the senior Ghouls with the
, - believe e in. their necessary vanilla extract to step

35 epcterenebrinted.
to| “There he is!” yelped Catfish and
the made a flying tackle at a grori s| tesque form which proved to be Prof.
Binnit on his way to complain of the
noises in front of the Haul.
» Leggo of me sonny” roared Binnit,
“This is the third time tonight I
have been mistaken for a Frosh.”
The Trained Tagers immediately
immediately picked him up and left
him suspended in a horizontal plane
where he will have a glazed-eye view
of next week’s proceedings. Meanwhile the Major, having muttered an
apology and something about bi-focal
vision sat down beside Ethel Alcohol
an old acquaintance.

As Rufus Rayne floated to the top
of the North West Arm, he was
picked up by two Scotch Haligonian

+ th bent looked une aot eee faces at

| ac ‘called a meeting? ?
ed for Charlie was the Med
1 11 pm. by trying to keep
. Too soon after a quiz for
_wagers, anyway. Embryos boring on Friday, sez Chas.
Swing just makes you
‘says Clyde Slade after his
fl a Clyde was observed

       
   
      
    
 
     
     
       
 
        
 
   
 
     
   
       
   
     
     
  

  

  

 
 

vay between tables.

el, aa Joe? Also seen

- a bottle with water

=. pik: (the water) On the
on D u ud, or uae getting the last

0 ni

  

 
 

  

were the social activities
ier a dance at Phi Chi.
ad a good ti time, even the

  

 
 

 

  

   
 
 
   

  

5. ie

   
 
 
  
     
    
      
 
      
 
    
    
       
    
   
      
        
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
 
       
 
  
   
 
 

  

ae rat beat pin Mar eee eee a
>| manly | chest. Do you mean it, SIR?

  

A moon is forever circulating, and
| our MOON runs true to form. From

|the Sigs to the Phi Chis and “Rotund” Raiph had fun. In fact all
of his brethren had fun in one way
or another tother night.

This part of the column is devoted
to a complaint from the C.O.T.C. We
are asked by the officers to try and
impress the ‘men’ that a good
nights’ sleep is necessary for any
kind of success at 100 or 200 yards.
Not knowing anything about soldiery
we can’t comment but pass it along
for what it’s worth. It seems a
shame, though, to shoot valuable
ammunition Sunday mornings at two
targets and hitting the wrong one.

Three cheers for the D. A. A. C.
They are giving those who need excuses a wonderful one for the forthcoming week-end. Friday through
Sunday. If it will make McCurdy
Cup Champions out of our Football
Team ... more power to you all.
Remember, however, that the Government Officials do not work on
Saturday, Nov. 11. ... DO YOUR
SHOPPING EARLY.

  

 
 

 
 

  

 
 

  

 
 

 
 

 
 

shout reclaiwes of the Bio
ry Lab eats ‘There i is, they say, merce ’89.

 
 

 
 

 
 

  

 
 

 
 

 
 

  
 
 
 
   
   
    
      
  
    
    
   
  
   

Your correspondent advises all
those who have a moment to spare
to go and feast their eyes on the
Freshettes who are practising to
make us forget Ruby Keeler at the
coming Munro Day Show...
“Kissy”, if we may borrow: the
expression, apparently asks for
REAL service, for why did her escort
try so hard to get his car up the
HALL steps. I don’t think it’s necessary to mention the DRIVER?

We’d lika to close for the week

with the following prophecy, Dal to

beat Caledonia. Come on Gang, and
drag along your best friend’s girl.

|| Our proverb for the week: She
| laughed when I sat down to play,
how did I know she was ticklish.

3 hris
It is time for se
- Christmas cards,
ly Fra ternities,

 
 

 
 

  

 
 

 
 

 
 

  

 
 

 
 

 
 

RUFUS RAYNE FROM RANGOON

 

 

“Strange lookin’ fush aye Jock?”
muttered Blurbie.

“Better throw ’im bock aye Blurbie?” answered Jock.
As this weird conversation floated
over the misty aqu a much bedraggled Minna rushed down the beach,
wailing. “Oh bring back, oh bring
back my Rufus to me, to me.”

Will Jock and Blurbie bring back
the fush? Does Oscar Scribblewell
write the Pigsty? Will Clutchins
come to by next Saturday ?

The Third Estate

SHALL WE HAVE A
“SADIE HAWKINS” DAY?
Sally Smith, Arts °*40 — “It’s a
ridiculous American idea. It’s just a
heyday for girls who don’t go out
anyway. The boys might like it, I
suppose.”

 

ok * *

Henry Ross, 3rd year medical
student—“I think it’s a hell of a fine
idea — I’ve been waiting for something like this for years!”

* * BS

“Butch” Lawson, Chemical Engineering—‘“I’d come a-running! The
phone number is B5891, girls—and
there are eight other interested
males at this number, too!”

* * *

Bill Harvey, Arts ’41—‘‘Oh joy!
Oh happy day!!! !”
* * *

Archie B. MacKenzie, 2nd year
Law—“I think it’s great! On second
thought, though, women bother me
enough as it is. However, I guess I
ean bear up under it all right—
strong, y’know! Find me a Daisy
Mae and I'll go.”

&

* *

Bill Thomas, Science ’483—‘T think
it would be fun! Where did you get
the idea?” (Columnist’s note: His
education has been neglected—but
then he’s a freshman).

* * x
Henry Reardon, 3rd year medical
student — “Some people might say
that the girls chase the boys enough
all year without having a special day
for it! Now, of course I don’t think

—” (Columnist’s nee Agreed.)

* *

Ed Morris, Arts ’42—“It’s a wonderful idea! Then the boys can get
some work done!”

Varieties

Poor little worm,

Working in earnest.

—Poor Ernest.

(Well a column has to begin with
something, doesn’t it?)

 

 

GG. 2k. C.
“You’ve left off your medals,”
snapped the captain to the lieuten
Fisher-folk, namely Blurbie Stewpot| ant. The lieutenant looked down at
and Jock McLuskie, both of Com-' his chest.

“Great Scott,” he cried, “I’ve fins

 

  
   
     
 
  

 

MORE THAN 500
PATTERNS TO
CHOOSE FROM

Dalhousie’s

WHO’S WHO

(2)

Harry Smith, the well known
“Freshman’s Friend” leaves shortly
to become the “Frenchman’s Friend”
having accepted a language scholarship offered by the French Govern-|

ment. He will study at Bordeaux,
being denied the enticements of old
Paris by the war situation.

Bluebeard (Mr. Smith to you) was
Freshman representative on the Students’ Council and until now has
taken a very active interest in the
Freshettes! This was his second
year on the Council.
the
Committee and “Co-pioneer”
Bulletin.

Harry has acted in both French
and English plays (ahem!) and had
a small role in the Osear Wilde production of Oct. 12th. He is a nonfraternity man and has played three
years on the Senior Hockey Team.
His other athletic interests are confined to golf, although it is reported
that he goes swimming regularly
twice a year.

—

gotten to take them off my pajamas.”

 

DADDY GOOSE

Quoted by the “Gateway” last
week was this enjoyable jingle, improvised by an unknown author at a
dinner in Washington:

Ribbentrop, Ribbentrop, where have

you been?
‘I’ve been to Moscow to see Stalin.”
Ribbentrop, Ribbentrop, what did
you there?

“TJ dined with some Jews and got
hugged by a bear.”

Harry was on)
“Convocation Week of 1989’ |
of the |

|

 

 

(So help me, this column is not
literary. )

 

DOTTY FIXIT SAYS:

“Mary K”, if you have to choose
between your passion for fried onions and your man—my advice is
take the onions. There is something
so much stronger and more protective about onions.

Dotty Fixit will settle your love
problems and on demand will supply
answers to Christmas exam papers.

Address your letters to Dotty
Fixit, Deluxe Apartments, Lower
Water Street. All answers guaran
teed not to shrink or your money
back.

 

SHORT STORY

Two Guys

Disguise

Spies

Nazis

Guns

Huns

©: OVE. C.

(Have you heard? there’s a war)

 

Visit Our Oyster Bar

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

 

GAUVIN & GENTZEL

Special Rates to Students
24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone B-6992

 

Insist on

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. _B-6821

 

 

College men, call at COLWELL’S
on Barrington Street for all your
clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accessories.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

 

 

    
 

SEE THE SHOW

   

There's Always a Good Show at the CASINO

AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — You'll Enjoy It!

 

 

 

25"

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
da Q Style Centne too —thanka

to TIP TOP TAILORED
to MEASURE CLOTHES

HAND-CUT AND INDIVIDUALLY
TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL

MEASUREMENTS

Courtaulds "Quality-Controlied"” Rayon Linings are an

extra value feature in Tip Top Clothes.

422 BARRINGTON STREET

Chew bly

IO)

r

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
    
    
    
    
   
 
  
    
     
    
   
     
 
    
  
  
 
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
   
   
    
   
   
   
     
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
    
  
       
    

eg The store was started in é a
a: of 1930 through the efforts of Murray Rankin, Professor James Macnee Donald and Mr. MacKay. Prior to
ee - its beginning, the students had to
ree their text books as best they
could from booksellers and station7 mee ers in town. Due to the remoteness
. ce of the two centres of activity this
ie ie did not prove very satisfactory,
rm PAs Through the efforts of the above
_- mentioned committee the publishers
8 were prevailed upon to extend the
‘necessary credit terms and the store
was opened in the old gymnasium
building. In the Spring of 1931, af_ ter the fire, temporary quarters were
set up in the men’s common room
until the new gymnasium was completed.

The store is a co-operative venture and was formed with the initial
purpose of obtaining the student repis quirements as cheaply as possible.

_ The small profit made each year was
added to surplus to ensure a sound
financial position and to guard
against any loss which may arise.
; In the past few years the profit has
= been returned to the students in the
_ form of grants for student services
and in providing periodicals for the
men’s common room and for the
a. room in Shirreff Hall, and
: _ for the past two years, for the
women’s common room.
a * TRADING AND PROFIT

  

 

ae. a

Ee i YEAR ENDED APRIL 29th, 1939
era TRADING

. EIR ner cacy msl Sa wise ha se Bae esse $4,518.06
eo Less: Cost of Sales of New Books:
Pe Inventory April 30th, 1938.......... $ 496.21
MUP PIFCHASES «65. oes pu ve cae esdn ale oes 3,847.56 :
ee II ci 26 58h bs bb eed) bo 99.8 110.97
MM EMCISG LOK coc cie secre sve ccssans ons 49.95

 

eke in Sound F inancial Position

a, Less: Inventory April 29th, 1938....

git stated before, the initial purpose of the store is to effect as great
a savings as possible on the student
text books, and up to the present
this motive has been achieved. You
will note from the analysis of the
profit and loss statement, that the
net. profit rate is only 6%, which
means simply that it costs the store
94 cents for every dollar’s worth of
books sold.

The store also saves the students’
time, since they have no need to
leave the campus to purchase their
books. This is particularly beneficial
to freshmen ‘students, many of whom
are not familiar with the city. In
recent years an addition of two
members of the Students’ Council
elected annually has been made to
the store trustee. And this year another member is to be appointed
from the Council, preferably a lady
member. Therefore effective student
representation has been achieved in
the management of the store.

The board of trustees thus formed
chooses the manager of the store
from applications received from the
student body. This year the trustees
are Murray Rankine, Prof. Maxwell,
Prof. Bates, and two students, Francis Johnson and Douglas Cameron.
The lady member is as yet to be appointed.

AND LOSS STATEMENT

578.09 3,926.60

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee eae , 1a ay
en Gross peeet on yew Boek: eee Sieaah lc doa kee Oa asin $ 591.46
> eos Hand Bo 260.95
ost of 48 :
a, 26.23
cf ss? Se oe $ 617.69
$ 617.69
‘ SERS 2 AEC Lg io rae, Cah en, ee he $ 175.00 °
SS eee oh aly ba sean Rag a ae 19.50
_ Telephone and Telegraph a eM an besbeee Wace. 33.40
Stationary, Printing and Postage ............. 41.39
MUUUEMONONE PEXDONSO oc 5. ns os sane ciea wasn esis ao 7.00
ee Ee urowWiiter RENGITS. 04 Gic <6 vee esse eet ce an ees 7.75
PM MEREIST IS Ss Soc ccs po cas ve ess venw a nietee sus 10.00
mn cinterest and Exchange ..........0.0e0eweseeees 4.86
Depreciation — Equipment .................+... 21.41
bag, —— GUIDMEDE 350 i0is ses av pie ee aa 33.89
- Amortization of Bond Premium ............... 5.63 359.83
ae teed Mee rat Gn Salen (igs) ce o0Re dvs $ 257.86
— had: POCORN PRUCGIMNG Moos ook. akan ert eayere ad ERS 28.43
* Net Profit transferred to Surplus............... $ 286.29
ASSETS
Current: ?
MM IONIC yc sas cco led ae sex ie ss ns ote Ve $° 47.34
Cash in Bank of Nova Scotia
Current. -ACCOUNG: 66 wast <aie 0.0.8 $551.99
CIs BOCOUNG so6 coe es oes 180.08 782.07
Stock-in-trade as per inventory....... $578.09
Less: Reserve for depreciation of
PAVRECOLY in odie aiiledsn eit oe 5ie Wide ware 8 57.81 520.28
Accrued interest receivable ./................ 9.17 $1,308.86
Investments:
SNE TONAUEEYY ibys cide ass Fd belay Bdrmiee Waves oa a te 73.11 573.11
WEIS. 3 Bie Shue 4's dwioh v aie Wa ome aS eR arce aaa os. $ 500.00
Fixed:
NRE reas A 4-5 ‘sa ait sta Pe aI dCi & ae as $ 231.60
Less: Reserve for depreciation................. 70.15 161.45
$2,043.42
LIABILITIES
Current:
mecona hand varcounts payable... oc... ccs cck sci ccc ceupens $ 79.76
Peer aie PU PR a Fis iwc Kb aaa See. 1,968.66
$2,043.42
/ _ 1985-36 % 1986-37 % 1987-38 % 1938-389 %
= aay : $4,077.77 100 $8,986.67 100 $4,049.96 100 $4,779.01 100
a “West. o
} Sales.. 8,488.95 85.4 3,878.03 84.7 3,505.57 86.6 4,161.32 987.1
> Gr. Profit 593.82 146 60864 163 544389 18.4 617.69 12.9
_ Expenses 352.70 8.7 285.54 7.2 825.80 8 231.40 6.9
_ Net Profit 24112 59 82310 81 21859 5.4 286.28 6.0
: The Fight for Peace bitter words of Jeremiah: “They are

Continued from Page Iwo
counteract the hate-mongering press
and the even more nauseating utterances of George MacCullagh and
_ people of his stripe. We must rebs member that the people are fighting
Sg win the peace, not the war.
Finally, I believe that this is a

- time for deep contrition on the part
neal men. I am reminded of ee

ern i
es iS

  
   
   
 
   
   
    
   
 
 
  

not valiant for the truth upon the
earth, for they proceed from evil to
evil, and they know not Me, saith
the Lord”.

The knowledge, and I believe it, j

TE

deep in the hearts of us all, that we’

are responsible for the tragic catastrophies of modern history shouid
bring us to our knees,

GLYNN FIRTH.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Store isa Going Concern

 

Dal Clergyman
Looks at the War

One of the things we must guard
against, more than any other, in
time of war, is that we do not allow
emotions and instincts carry our
reason with them, moving us to a
stand we would reject at a time of
sanity, when our judgment was at
par.
toward the present conflict in which:
our country is engaged let us face
the real issues, taking our side from
an honest conviction of what is
right after we have thought it

through. Two people may face these i

same issues honestly and, guided by
their conscience, arrive at entirely
different conclusions. We can but
agree to disagree and be tolerant to
the opposite view to our own, if we
feel it to be an honest conviction.

We have not time to look into all
these issues, but we can take a brief
peek at a few of them. This war
has been called a “Christian Crusade”; a defense of democratic
principles. In the history of the
Church the “Crusades” stand out as
colossal farces, Let us be careful
how we use the term. This war may
be a good political, but not a good
Christian solution. If one is a
Christian he owes his allegiance to a
higher order than the State. If the
State interferes with the Christianity, it must be set aside for the
Christ. There is a conflict as to
whether it is a good political solution. Winston Churchill, our First
Lord of the Admiralty, is no sentimental disclaimer, and in his book
“The Unknown War”, when opening
the history of the last war on the
Eastern Front, says: “These pages
record dazzling victories and defeats
stoutly made good. They record the
toils, perils, sufferings, and passions
of millions of men; their sweat, their
tears, their blood bedewed the endless plain . .. But all were defeated;
all were stricken; everything they
had given was in vain. Nothing was
gained by any.” Have we any proof
in historical fact that Mr. Churchill
will not be compelled to make the
same summary in a few years as he
makes here?

There is nothing wrong with the
theory of: Democracy. It is the only
political doctrine that is consistent
with the Christian one of the
supreme worth of human personality. But war assumes that human
personality, for a time at least, is
cannon fodder! It is like saying we
have a supreme ideal, but that for

the present we will throw it aside, |

in the hope of realizing it more fully
later on. Does anyone honestly believe that ideals are ever achieved
in this manner? If for every person
who died to save Christianity or
Democracy, we had one to live for
them, maybe Peace would become a
living reality.

Democracy appeared in our modern
world under three great words:
Equality, Liberty, Fraternity.

 

YEAR BOOK

Will all intending graduates please
get in touch with Photographer to
have pictures taken for this year’s
Year Book.

 

Maginot Line!

     
  
 
   
 
 

a eves?

oreten ons #

0

   

GED

 

But |

 

|
|
en!

ORPHEUS oe

A French officer’s mad jealousy uncovers the
most audacious spy plot yet conceived . .
within the very catacombs of the famed

Complete
Shows at
2.00, 7.00, 8.30

you can maintain the principle of
Equality only on a common humility;
Liberty on common obedience; Fraternity on common reverence and
service. Can we have these things
inside the nation if we deny them in
our attitudes towards other nations?
Force is always a sign of fear—a
sign of weakness. Fear drives us to
war. From God’s viewpoint force is
weakness and only Love is power. It

Before we adopt any attitude} is a hard choice—so many good men

‘will be lined up on both-sides; we
will need the courage of our convictions. The late Studdert Kennedy, the Woodbine Willie of the
World War, famous as a padre, says:
. the temptation will be terrific.
Not a plain choice between good and
evil — temptation is seldom if ever
that—but confusion—with a babel of
on both sides. Thos who refuse to listen to conflicting voices, and apparent
right on both sides. Those who refime to take the sword from sloth,
cowardice, self-interest, or pride, will
damn their souls. Those who take
it with a good conscience will be
saved through the bitterness of disillusion—and those who refuse to
take it out of honest Love for God
and Man, will be crucified, but will
rise again, to see of the travail of
their souls and be satisfied.”
CoE. B;

CTT
a NW D|

 
      
           
 

  

. New Method
Watch
Cleaning >]

Guaranteed 1 year
Main Springs, $1.00

OXFORD

win Jewellery Store
os 575 Barrington St 4

 

OWN A ROYAL

The Portable with Big Machine features

GENEROUS ALLOWANCE ON
YOUR OLD MACHINE

SEAMAN-CROSS LTD.
B-6542 56 GRANVILLE ST.

 

 

In The Evening

End a pleasant evening
by visiting the . .

The

Green Lantern

407-409 Barrington St.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest

Restaurant”

 

 

Added Feature“ — THE DAY THE BOOKIES WEPT”

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College |

"UUUUVEEOASURASEAL UTERUS

 

 

 

ee

Five.

Cleopatra, aa of the Nile,

Owed more to Picobac than to seductive guile,

® Picobac may provide a solution to the mystery
of Anthony’s enchantment. Certainly Picobac—
always a mild, cool, sweet smoke, the pick of
Canada’s Burley crop—is enchanting. It may
have charmed Anthony. Today Picobac is no
Ptolemic secret but it is available to plebs and

patricians at remarkably low price,
also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

‘ : ; <4
lt DOES taste good in a pipe!”

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH ~- 15¢
-LB, “LOK-TOP”" TIN - 60¢

Offers Engineering Courses

 

in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotian Students.

Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President.

 

 

UUUVUUMASNUSVAUOASAGUSU AGATA ULES HH j

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

 

      

Seana

eee
de

  

DELICIOUS
APPETIZING

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose,

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST. HALIFAX, N. §.

 
 
   

= =

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

November 10, 1939

 

ERS SMOTHER SERVICES |
TOP FORM FOR CALEDONIA

 

 

Saturday’s Game

12 Points From Record

In the final scheduled game of the
City Senior Rugby League, played
at Studley last Saturday afternoon,

Dalhousie Tigers, 1939 champs, shat-.

tered scoring records in defeating
United Services by a score of 51—0.

The Tars started the game with
only fourteen men, and they were
at the mercy of a furious pack of
Tigers, who scored pretty much as
they pleased. The Bengal machine
clicked beautifully for the first time
this year, as an aggressive pack of
forwards fed the ball to the backfield continually and the three-quarter line ripped through the Services

ce for large gains. —

ae the end of the first half the
Collegians led» by a score of 34—0.
Although watched by only a fairsized crowd of spectators, the impressive victory dispelled all fears
of the Tigers having gone stale after a week’s layoff.

Scoring started two minutes after
play began, Marty MacDonald crossing the Services’ line. Before the
half-time whistle sounded, Marty
counted another try, and “Clutch”
MacKimmie and Sammy Bell matched him, each counting six points.
Kerr and MacNeil also scored tries
in the first haif, with Norm MacRitchie and Bird alternating at convert shooting. '

In the second half the Dalhousie
attack slowed down somewhat, but
the Tigers were able to roll up another seventeen points. Sammy Bell
added his third try of the game and
Marty MacDonald cashed in on scoring opportunities to cross the Services’ line twice more. Don Storey
and MacNeil also scored one apiece
during the second period.

Sub-Lieut. Davidson refereed.

Services — Three-quarters: Woodworth, Edwards, Matthews, Lloyd;
halves: Arnott, Lee; forwards:
Bates, Jones, Aldridge, Krulicki,
Chedister, Grant, Bigelow.

Dalhousie—Fullback: Bird; threequarters: Bell, MacDonald, Ross,
MacNeil; halves: Chernin, Eaton,
Burke; forwards: Kerr, Ideson, MacDonald, Storey, MacKimmie, Vail,
MacRitchie.

Basketball Schedule

This year it has been decided to
have a longer basketball league.
The following schedule will be played before Christmas, with more
games being added after. There will
be no interfaculty basketball meals
before Christmas. The first game

 

‘will get underway at 12 o’clock, the

second to start at 12.30.
Nov. 1—Dentistry vs. Frosh.
“_ 9—Commerce vs. Arts.
“ -14—Law vs. Med.
* 14—Frosh vs. Commerce.
* 16—Dent vs. Med.
* 16—Law vs. Arts.
“ 21—Comm vs. Med.
“  2i1—Arts vs. Frosh.
* 28—Dent vs. Law.
“ 23—Meds vs. Frosh.
“ 28—Arts vs. Med.
“*  28—Comm vs. Law.
“ 30—Dent vs. Comm.
* 30—Law vs. Frosh.

Revised
Softball Schedule

Following is the revised softball
schedule. The league has been di
 

vided into two sections, “A” and

“B”, the winners of each section to
play off for the Championship.
Games will be played at 8 and 9
o'clock.
Thursday, Nov. 9—
Law vs. Med (a)
Frosh vs. Arts & Science (b)
Thursday, Nov. 16—
Dentistry vs. Med (a)
Commerce vs. Frosh (b)
Thursday, Nov. 23—
Arts & Science vs. Comm (b)
Dentistry vs. Law (a)
Thursday, Nov. 30—
Winner of (a) vs. winner of (b)

—

   

ell, tomorrow is the big day!
Our Tigers will stack up against the
Caledonia Miners in an effort to
bring the McCurdy Cup to Dalhousie.
Hardened by weeks of conditioning,
the Dal squad is in great shape for
the classic, and is confident of mak‘ing a great showing. Looking back
over the records, we find that since
1920 the cup has gone to Dalhousie
three time, Wanderers seven times,
to ‘Caledonia seven times, and to
U.N-B. once. The U.N.B. victory in
1929 was not recognized as such by
the Halifax teams.

Congrats to the D.A.A.C. and the
Council of the Students on their efforts to create some college spirit iat
Saturday’s match. A “pep rally” is
to be hheld Friday evening in the
gym, and a full attendance of students is requested. A little encouragement for Dalhousie on Saturday
won't do anybody any harm and is
very likely to help a great deal. So
we'll see you all out at the game
tomorrow!

Interfaculty sport enthusiasts
plesae take note of the schedules on
the sport page of the Gazette this |
week. The softball schedule will be)
completed before Christmas, (we)
hope), but interfaculty basketball |

 

will be played both before and after | *

Christmas.

By taking two straight games|
from Law, last year’s champs,
Medicine annexed the interfaculty
rugby title for the year 19389. Meds
proved themselves superior in all departments of the game, and are
worthy holders of the title. (Notice
to Miller Ballem: The interfaculty
manager will get your pin for you as
soon as possible.)

We watched the girls work out
on the basketball floor the other day,
and from the looks of things, Miss
Wray should produce a really fine
team this year. Coach Ralston is
waiting for football to finish before
he calls the first practice for the
male members of the camps personnel, but it is hoped that an opportunity will be given to practice a
few times before the Christmas
exams. .

Co-eds Bow 2-1
To Edgehill Team

Despite the lack of practice for
the Dal team as a whole, and
despite Goonie’s cartoon, the game
on Wednesday with Edgehill proved
to be the best we have seen in a
long time. The playing was fast
throughout the whole time and the
final score was 2-1 for Edgehill.

Perhaps it was the Dal banners
(which Plumer pasted all over the
bus) that inspired the Dal girls,
but whatever it was they certainly
started out well and gained the first

goal, the only score made during the |

first half.
ever, the Windsor girls, having recovered from the surprise of Dal
getting a goal, setlled down to hard
work and managed to score twice
before the final whistle blew.

There was some very good individuals playing on the Dal team
and those who were outstanding
were Yvonne Mounsey, Peg Gorham
and Betty Sandal.

Those who went up from Dal were
Marj. aMnning, Joan Moon, Betty
Harris, Mary Johnson, Betty Sandal,
Yvonne Mounsey, Daphne Clark,|
Libby Boak, Dot MacKenzie, Audrey
Nightingale, Peg. Gorham, Reta
Harison, Barb. Schwartz.

The game was refereed by Miss
Wray and Miss Wright.

After the Dal team left Edgehill
they all trooped into’ Bustin’s and
with eBtty Sandal leading gave some

In the second half, how- |

 

rousing Dal cheers. They certainly
let Windsor know who they were.

Wey hope to see Edgehill down
here next Wednesday for a return
game—and it promises to be a good
one.

 

Back Row: R. Plumer, J. Bird, S. Chernin, C. Burke, D. MacNeil, M. MacDonald, N. MacRitchie, B.

C. MacKimmie, Coach Ralston.
Front Row: T. Laidlaw (Mgr.), S. Bell, W. Macdonald, R. Ideson, J. Kerr, D. Storey (Capt.), H. Ross, B. Eaton.

Grads Think Tigers
Have Fine Chance

Dalhousie is preparing for its|
McCurdy Cup match with Caledonia

 

 

Saturday. What are Dalhousie’s|
'chances? Listen to these Dal “old|
boys”:

Dr. Fergie Little, Tigers, 1908- |

1912: “I think that if Dal goes into |
Saturday’s game forgetting that it’s |
Caledonia they’re playing, we can’t |
be beaten. This year’s team is very
well balanced, for which much credit
is due to Coach Bernie Ralston. The
fullback, Bird, is as good as any
player I have ever seen wearing a
Dal sweater.”

Major J. W. Logan, Tigers, 18901894: “This year the team has everything, enthusiasm, players, and victories, and what we have done before we can do again. The Dal team
of ’39 is a fine team and we can
offer a challenge to the mighty Cape
Bretoners and feel that we can come
through with colors flying.”

Dr. James Corston, Tigers 19001903: “There is a decided improvement in the team this year. They
have real power in every department, but their real strength seems
to be in good forwards. As for the
fullback he looks to me like a real
Rugby football player.”

Dr. Billy Ross, Tigers, 1908-1909:
“My impression of the team is that
the forward line is one of the best
I have ever seen, and the backfield,
when working together as they have
at times this year, is the equal of
any in the Province.”

 

 

 

Here’s Your Team

__

Tomorrow’s Line-up
Fullback
J. BIRD

Three-Quarters

M. MacDONALD
H. ROSS
S. BELL
D. MacNEIL

Halves

R. EATON
S. CHERNIN
C. BURKE

Forwards

J. KERR
R. IDESON
D. STOREY
W. MacDONALD
C. MacKIMMIE
N. MacRITCHIE

B. VAIL

C.0.T.C. Practice
Friday Afternoon

At practice parade for Armistice
held at 2.15 on Friday, uniforms will
NOT be worn. Black shoes should
be worn as for parade.

| . ‘
| former football heroes, carrying the |

| the
Logan followed suit and Gordon

Vail,

Yea! Team !

 

recent deprecations of Dalhousie
student spirit, takes off its hat to
the scores that thronged the gym|nasium yesterday to listen to the
|rousing tales of rugby conquest recalled by “old boys” and blast their
| tonsils in song and lusty yell.

“Lucky” Logan led the group of

group back into the early years of |

century. Doctors Ross and

 

| Thompson, a comparative stripling
of the early thirties, concluded the
speech-making by his encouraging
assertion that the present team is
the best, by cracky, in these last ten
seasons. :

Doctor Ross packed more thrills
than a Frank Buck movie into ten
minutes. His “two-minutes-to-go”
climax had students on the edges
of their chairs and his tall tales of
greater days set a mark for Saturday’s potential victors to aim at.
Bird, incidentally, got a great boost
as the best fullback for many moons.

Seen also at the rally were Henry
Reardon, Inez Smith and Doug.
McKeen executing expert contortions
the better to extract thunderous
roars from student cheerers; Betty
Sandall beating the meeting to the
punch by leading a Shirreff Hall yell,
and Lloyd Dalton heading the song
section. The Gazette hopes that the
game goes with more gusto than
the singing.

 

 

LITTLE MAN, WHAT NOW?

 

Meds Win Title

Medicine clinched the championship of the Dalhousie Interfaculty
Rugby League at Studley yesterday,
when they handed Law a decisive
9—3 setback, to take their second
straight victory in the best of three
series,

Although the Law team controlled
the play the majority of the first
half, the Meds came through with
two quick tries in the second period
to give them the win. The Lawyers
carried the play to the Meds from
the start, but the Med three-quarter
line covered their men so closely
that the Lawyers could not make
headway, and lost ground on the
majority of their runs. At about
|the five minute mark, Bunny MacNeil picked up a loose ball on the
Law 25-yard line, and eluded sev|eral Law tacklers to cross the Law
line and give his team a 8—0 lead.
MacLean’s attempt to convert failed.
Shortly before the end of the period
Law scored their only try of the
| game, Trites following up a kick to
| fall on the ball behind the Med line

 

This humble organ, mindful of its|t0r the score. His attempt to con
| vert failed by a few feet. The halftime whistle sounded with the score
(tied at 3—all.

Starting with the second half,
| Med began to force the play and
gained ground on three-quarter line
runs and kicks in touch. The win|ning tries came within minutes of

From a scrum at mid
|each other.

field, the ball passed along the Medical line to MacNeil, who skirted the
Law fullback and planted the ball
behind the posts to put the Meds

| out in front once more. Several
| minutes later the Doctors scored the
final try of the game, MacDougall
plunging over the line from a 5yard scrum. For the remainder of
the game, the Law team pressed
hard, but the Medicine squad managed to keep them from scoring.
Burnie Ralston refereed.

Tigers Have Taken
Caledonia Before

| Despite stories to the contrary, the
McCurdy Cup, emblem of Maritime
English rugby supremacy, was first
played for in the season of 1923.
When English rugby was resumed
after the first great war, Dalhousie
defeated Caledonia 9-3 for the Maritime championship in 1920, Wanderers were generally acknowledged as
| winners in 1921 and the local club/men scored again, 24-0 over Cale|donia the following season. At that
time there was no Maritime trophy
|at stake.
| Dalhousie play Caledonia
| this coming Saturday and it will
be the 16th season of the McCurdy
trophy, although there were no playoffs-in three seasons (1924-’25
o<
30.

 

Tigers

and
Caledonia players have won the
/trophy on no less than seven occasions, presenting an unbroken run
|from 1932 to the present season.
Wanderers have won it three times
and Dalhousie twice.

The MacTier cup is for the East|ern Canada championship and has
|not been played for in the past few
years.
| The MeCurdy cup was presented
|} at a dinner on the night of Novem| ber 18, 1922, and the
| then is as follows:
| 1923—Dalhousie St. F.X. 0

1924—-No playoff (a)

1925—No playoff

1926—Wanders 11, Caledonia 5

1927—Dalhousie 14, Caledonia 0

1929—U.N.B. 10 (b) Caledonia 0

1930—No playoff (a)

1931—Wanderers 10, U.N.B. 3

1932—Caledonia 14, Dalhousie 0

1988—Caledonia 23, Wanderers 4

1934—Caledonia 27, Wanderers 6

1935—Caledonia 9, Wanderers 6

19386—Caledonia 14, Dalhousie 5

1937—Caledonia 6, Wanderers 3

1938—Caledonia 12, Wanderers 6
(a) Wanderers recognized as champions in many quarters, (b) Not
recognized by Halifax League.

record since

2o

OG,

 
