  
  

£4

— —s - — se
— Se jak x ’, a ere 7 ~
P 1 me py fr Fey . ay te ae Ng? MPa Pg 1 ae ote a
" a ' pier i
4

es

aws | , Red With Victory

DY

 

 

   

   

Senior
3.30 O’Clock

Dalhousie

os ; ;
ee fh ame | BN gene be OF 00 near epee

 
  
 
  

VS.
Services

United

 

No. 2

 
 
 
     

THE WESTERN THE PEOPLE'S WOODBURY AND acag awe
moe | te CHOICE

At the Dal gym. on Thursday night, one of the funniest
and best-acted plays that we have seen for some time was’
A fair-sized crowd at the gym-| _presented by the Glee Club. “The Importance of Being
nasium on Wednesday evening took} At the by-elections on Tuesday| Earnest” by Oscar Wilde was a good choice for the first play
advantage of the opportunity of|John MacInnes was chosen to repre-|as was the director Llewllyn Graham of All Saint’s Cathedral.
hearing Dr. Heilperin, distinguished| sent the Arts and Science OEMs ee pee eet ee
graduate of Geneva University and | mores on the Students’ Council.
native of Poland, discuss the posi-| Blair Purves will represent the
tion of the Western and Northern Post-Grads on the Council after a
neutrals in Europe. close battle in which the scoring |
“One war, he said, was already| was 4—38. Henry Reardon will be.
raging in Europe, and another was/ president of the Glee Club this year, |
in the making. In the next few! having been elected by acclamation. |
/days, he expected, would be coe |

| a

the question of Finnish neutrality:

as to whether Russia would respect /
it or not. Citing the fact that Hoel-| CELTIC
\land had long since mobilized and:

that Norway had sent troops to her | CONCLAVE’
northern borders, the speaker gave |
an impression of the apprehension
being felt in all the neutral countries, saying that because of the low : " )
morality existant in intra-European meeting in Room I at 2.30. pm. |
affairs the worst was feared. The Tuesday, Oct. 10th, under the direc- |
danger of violation he saw as com- Peete 2 Gareegey. = we |
pF attended by a number of students
: i a oe oe re interested in the Gaelic language and One of the surprises of last night’s
: yor Peel tesa eh ctor ¢hig | Culture. : z me | show was Kay Hicks as the Vic| jungle” in which the nations of It was decided to hold a weekly WALTER MURPHY, M.A. — torian mother and chaperon, Lady

 

 

  
 

~~

' apalourse Tigers aia out their |
first, victory of the current rugby |
- eampaign over Acadia Axemen by a |

:

        
 

 

 
 

 

* The cast was exceedingly well

OFF FOR once Le chosen and knew their lines which is
a feat in a three act play. The
| make-up of the players was good,
costumes typical of the period repre| sented, and the furniture genuine
Vantiinies. All of these maintained
| the soothing Victorian atmosphere.

Though there are all these bright
| Spots to praise there are also some
things to criticize about the sets.
) _ Apparently the stage crew, had
. started on their job rather late for
in the first set. they did not have
time to finish the brown walls. A
| ceiling might also have been an improvement, Of course the curtain
stuck at the end of the second act
but Messrs. Begg and Woodbury

. carried on nobly to a roaring climax
of applause.

 
 

en of 6-3, in a scheduled match
_ played at Raymond field last Saturday. The seniors kept up the college
ei, ie “at ition, by defeating the valley

 

 
 
     
   

 

 

vs in the first game of the league.
oe a e teams played before large cheer- |
are sections from both colleges and
n a fast, dry, field, and for the first
‘game of the year they showed great
+ ‘style, though there was a noticeable
Jack of three quarter line runs during the game.
chs In spite of the efforts of the Axe- |.
men to draw first blood, the Bengals; =a |
ah et scoring early in the first} ) PRESIDENT besiaeti aie
i on § Solly. Chernin; 0 one of the
vers on the Dal

tiful play as Declares War
‘Tiger con-| ae

    

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

    

    
     
    
    
 

    
    
  
 

  

insGaalie Olah? held: Ha vst |

   
 

   
 
 

  

 

    
 
 
 
 
   
  

 

 
 

} : t+and and dice. | meeting on Tuesday at 12 for the a : = Brackaell. She showed great confiee i Th ‘d Wi th ele a ASS patos live ‘would extend and: dis- study of the language. A monthly, The first Dalhousian to land inj dence, her voice carried well, and
n- | noon urs ay. i - ;

 
 

. a ting to which outside speakers | France will probably be Walter| her mannerism were appropriate.
ing mention of the European war he Se oe hic saee Li ao . i ee, eae ad-|Murphy, B.A. °87, Education °88,|With corn-starched halt eed becney
a — a foe a attending the wert 5 elatn visable for the study of Gaelic|M-A. ’89, He has won a scholarship | skirts She, swept onto the stage,
<q jarter cl eee we of the RPS ereey wage iidteal avlicatcan trade wag | Culture. It was thought that Messrs. | to the University of Paris, where no|rooted the love-sick Earnest and

Donald, Bell, and Pauker. Mac-| “endless unremitting war”. disturbed by the operations of ti,|Matheson and Nicholson could be doubt people will soon be saying. to| swished off again amid a roar of
ae ‘je, 3 Kerr, and Storey worked; It was really understandable, the . y Pp Ss 0 e

ee ; .|each other, “Ask Walter, he can do applause.
am | ; ae : li : relied on for difficult points on pro- | © ;
very well in the Dal scrum. President believed, that we should i. eG ie nouncistion. Thé first. meeting got | it for you,” just as they have done Interviewed afterwards Kay said,

  
    

     
 

 
  
 
 
 

         

      
       
      
  
   
 
  

ee wise and eternally fight against in- |at Dal for the last five years. “Really, k
| Several kicking duels were fought we de y 2. ee arsti.|£0F resources possessed by neutral under way with work on whe y you oa I cannot grant
ot ae ees rect the ‘educated toes of the| tolerance, bigotry, ¢ y, sup countrios to be” and some elementary; Murph or M-a-rphy, as he is af-|an interview, the modern newspaper
ae “rival fullbacks, Les Bayne and tion and methods of violence; but Stratepicall Belgium or Switzer. | Sentences. fectionally known to his friends, is| is too too sensational—almost as bad
; ore! Bird, who relieved the pres-| perhaps not so readily understand- bend en aus aco ees se eas, a Halifax boy who went to Bloom-|as French novels, my dear sir!”
fe ‘sure on their respective sides time | able was that we should hate and Oe sae ttai Ecesnisiton see? 'Giee _ | field High. He came into college on Gwendolyn Fairfax turned out to

kicks to touch.| wish to exterminate many things
ae dee ae ee aa in the first| which a comfortable majority will
half remaining, the gold and black) wish to see remain—many convensquad received a penalty kick on the tions and proprieties, cherished by
: aati 85-yard line and MacRitcie| people who hate to think.
- made no mistake this time, splitting; Blunders and incompetence, gradthe uprights with a perfect penalty | yates who have no other distinction
ae: tee Just before the whistle went | or qualities than the possession of a
“Se to end the first half, Acadia forged | university degree, those whose beeet | ‘deep into Dal territory where they) liefs cdnsist merely of words read
ss were awarded a penalty kick on the| in books or heard from professors,
yh Dal 25-yard stripe. Johnny Wilson’ were singled out by Dr. Stanley as
‘gent the pigskin sailing over the bar’ our foes.
for the Axemen’s lone tally. | Concluding a five minute address
-__-Play livened up at the beginning brimful with wisdom and meaning,
of the second half, Acadia forcing the President wished his hearers
- the play but unable to get the ball | health, obtainable, he said by fresh
_ past mid-field, due to the vicious gir, sunshine and exercise, and mentackling of the Tiger backfield. But | tal adventure and discovery, whether

declared that they would be helping
to enable small nations throughout
the world to live on in self-deter
 
 

a Scholarship and maintained that! be Mary Marsh and Margaret Mac
same standard in his work at Dal-| Askell was the demure little country
housie, specializing in French and lass. As the rather naughty, commination. ; German. Last year he was on the pletely charming and sophisticated

Out of this plight, he continued,! students’ Council as a representa-| young socialite Mary was particuwill come one or two alternatives: tive of the Grads. larly well cast—as for the “horrid,

either law and order will be estab- t ‘ ; :
t é Walter was especiall ro t| horrid German” Mar knows ¢
lished internationally or it will be}. Rowe Bie AnOWws ail

sca Sie -ROMERS Zak thax sainedl in Glee Club, too, for besides being | about that. When interviewed they
Because only twenty-eight million | peoples to rule themselves. The a ee a setuted Baa ab ea aa Do you know

people comprised this group of coun- | paramount issue of the whole long ite. ee pes ape “5 wall ere

tries, Dr. Heilperin saw their plight | conflict was that of the relationship etre ni a; ae a os eh cou) pn TRL EGE - always a good

as desperate, dependent on the pro-| between the human individual and ee : 5 oD ine se | BetreSs and last night was no ex

tection of her great’ neighbors— the state. eeded a stove in a hurry. Now | ception. She had a rather subtle

France and Britain. Professor Curtis introduced Dr. |there are not many people on the | Part to play and got it across to the

With cursory mention of the Heilperin and extended to him eee. Gk oe seaue oa ee ae
League’s banishéd hope of gaining | gratitude of the listeners for a valu- | beac a ata But Walter could a Fa x aia a ery in her hands but
security for the small states by | able and informative address. ice cas and did . cee _ ‘ rather attractive as well
ee ee sp ring by] | Besides beting in the Seales) aaa Waddbure’s part suited him
, es: on several occasions the hard fight- it came by skipping classes for the ite Peacebieakes”. | the trie NOTICE Council and in the Glee Club, Walter | better than did his suit of clothes.
; oe Paik Axemen got the ball a e oe of thought and study or by Prcsaw. cabi@binn tot ake neutrality | President and Mrs. Carleton Stanley|W@S also News Editor for the| However, one can’t have everything

_ three-quarter line and ran the leng | attending them for the same pur- of dome At Wehst of the email coun-| will be at home to all new students Gazette. There has never been ala good actor and a tailor’s model
tries concerned in the near future.|in the various Faculties in the Uni-| more dependable editor. When M-a-r-| usually don’t go together. At an
If they sided with the Allies, as he versity, Sunday, October 15, 4-6 p.m. phy said he would do something, he|interview Jack said that he would
thought likely, the learned Dactor' 294 Oxford Street. did it. He could not understand that | sign any autographs after the show
most people were not as reliable as | at the bottom of the stairs on the
himself, and when the reporters did| right hand side. We wonder how
not hand in a assignment in time! many took advantage of this unWalt. would be furious. At the end | excelled opportunity ?
of the year he got two D’s—one for

other were in grave danger of German invasion. Should the Reich
choose to operate against set

       
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
    
  
  
 
 
    
    
    
  
  
   
   
    
   
  
  
 
   
   

Pas tg

 
 
    
   
   
  
  
    
   
    
    
  
  
  
  
  

she must enter by either Belgium
or Switzerland; but should she attempt to break England, Germany
would attempt to occupy Holland or
the Scandinavias as her base.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ba. _ of the field before being brought ‘Pose.
er, ‘down by the Dal fullback.

_ After a very appropriate time out |

;

_ period, the squads got into the game SODALES GATHERS

again and played over the smoking

rt lic Dalhousie |
} — eee Me ts by In a mass meeting Thursday noon |

a. i, eo the Sodales Debating Society elect-|
the Acadia boys, prior to a rough |

lace |
M, -for-all in the centre |&4 @ new slate of officers to rep
. ee ee or et last year’s officers who did not re
 

Gazette Scoops lomorrow’'s Line-up

The most striking things about

   
  

  
  

 

 

 

   

. : the Gazette and one for Glee Club! Bob Begg as he came on the stage
of eo pars. Hold, . ie. (tara to Dal. Frank Corcoran, ex- | be | work. -|were his purple tie and beautiful
? cies tine ee ee ee _secretary-treasurer, was acclaimed THREE QUARTERS In an exclusive interview with the| purple socks. He was just our idea

a > Gazette he was asked to give his|of what Algernon should be. When
Bis, ‘receive passes, and needing a lit- Bact eae, oe Pauker Hutchins ’ MacNeil MacDonald opinion of the convoy oe He | Bob looked in the mirror after Freda
e pits Gp is general: | Antoff secretary-treasurer. said, with a sob in his voice, “I ex-| had curled his hair he said, “By Gad,
ke _ (Continued on page four) | Sign’ Khe | only. prospectd of de- oe eT oes pect the whole thing to fall to pieces} why didn’t I think of this before?
_ a bates for this year are the inter- arse avon : a bias as soon as I put foot on board.” E eee my profile doesn’t
mural clashes, the outlook of the FORWARDS | Old Dalhousians roaming the cam-|!t Margie?”

she Sasette seme geri ug see Sodales Society is rather depress- Macdonald Ideson Kerr pus find the place positively empty| Gordon Kinley was swell, simply

2 if of the student body to Ted/|; ing. However, the society will con- ‘MacRitchie Vail without the figure of Murphy tear-| swell, who could say more?
orne in his recent bereavement. tinue to fulfil its function as a Storey MacKimmie ing across it. We wish you lots of| The two butlers created minor

bi training ground for future speakers. luck in France old boy! riots at intervals.

 

   

, = vo RRS lecnes eee Pe, a ee ee ee enema
a Ni ¢ ar
a if ac i. ie :

   

 

 
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
    
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
  
     
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
     
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

ee AO
Waeny Fe

B-9602
B-6958
B-3148
H-5650
B-9746 ~
B-9746
B-9746
B-1049

Street, Halifax.

Ug eed aan
Ppt oe, eee ae

e Edit STOAN BLACKWOOD |
Manager: INEZ SMITH
¥ ‘MeCurdy ent. Co., Limited, S4 Argyle

ex a | hor; it cannot
in any | column ee The Gazette are those of the author;
il resent the opinion of the student body.

Plea for a Pibacal Education

Ed si tion today is fighting with its back against the wall
ee to fulfil its proper function is seen in the present
d condition of Ete The true purpose of educaeen distorted over the course of ae last Be
er is youth being developed to take his proper position
commun: z life, but rather is given specialized technical
| g for a job which ey or may Ae oon by ih at Be
ae universi modern college diploma may
4 - ‘Kets a. a ie of employment but it thwarts the true
end d ‘of education which is the development in the individual of
good intellectual and moral habits which form the basis of
- human freedom. In short, the true liberal education which is
h e just heritage of every student is no longer to be obtained.
is the duty of society to pass on to the rising generation
e accumulated wisdom of the past; for only in this way can
e continued progress of the race be maintained. It is a serious
indictment on this century that the liberal system of education

oe. a ae to —

ae

he

threatens an attack from Mars?
it hb than an ever increasing number of young
0) swept away by insidious propaganda, of not only
; but also reactionary parties? These young people ine not only those with a low 1.Q. but also those who have
reputedly beneficial training of a university education.
here Was pane or a pea etg ee it is the

 

ae

en "function

~ 7 mart f

an im d fnand. eo an es aetietet
ation. - The train ng un

the specialized training required by our

; a6 ake. 2 knowledge to be his province, as Bacon did.

ae me the stranger.

THE BURGLAR

It was dark in the room as the
man quietly fumbled his way toward
the safe. In the blackness nothing
could be seen but the single ray of
brightness from his small pocket
flashlight. His hand touched the
knob of the safe, and he dialed
swiftly; in a moment the door swung
softly open. His light fingers knew

no hesitation as they drew out one
particular filing-box. With remark
able speed he went through the

various papers, pocketed some, and
was just in the act of reading one

when ... the room was. suddenly
illuminated.

J. P. Dismore, revolver in hand,
stood in the doorway.

“Drop those papers; What are you |

doing here?”
’ The thief got up slowly. He was
a poorly dressed little man; a hat
pulled down over his eyes managed
to shield most of his face.

“T needed money. I’ve tried for
jobs but they don’t hire men any
more. This is the first time I have
ever stolen.”

Dismore’s voice was filled with a
smug brutality as he swung his
revolver carefully, but nevertheless
-kept it aimed.

“Sit down” he ordered.
find you’re next job in jail.”
reached for the telephone.

“Just a minute” said the burglar.
ra-| “Give me one chance. Don’t phone
due police.”

Dismore’s hand was on the receiver. “It is men like you that

 

 

“You'll
He

: make this country unfit for decent

people to live in. You won’t work
but expect those who do to keep
you. Why don’t you earn your living as honest men do? Probably the
only money you ever had, you stole.”
He had removed his hand from the
telephone while speaking, once more
jhe advanced toward it.

“One moment, Mr, J. P. Dismore,”
“Now it is

turn to say what I think of you.
Don’t be in too much of a hurry to|

‘

Ep earresdde phone the police. They might decide

me you need a prison sentence more
n 5 ma.
Dismore started to get up; the

IY ‘ion, i under the liberal system revolver wavered slightly. The burd's form the essential: link between the rudiments of high | giar raised his hand.

“No. No. Wait, Mr. Dismore.

. The great strides in material knowledge Before you came I had time to go
eentury and a half make it impossible for a over those interesting papers in your
€ | safe.

The police will find the in
ae f trend towards intensified, specialized training has been a natural | formation very helpful.”

   
  
   
  
   
   
    
    
  
 
   
   
 
   
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
     
    
  
   
  

_ The point is that it has not been preceded by the proper
78 of training. The results are obvious. The violent fluctuations of a mobile society such as ours do not make the lot of the
| Specialized training accounts for
uch of the horror of unemployment. When jobs give out in a
_ gertain field the man with solely the vocational education is lost.
The individual with the liberal education, however, can make
his brain function along new lines much more easily due to the
peculiar discipline and training to which his mind has been
PR = . _ gubjected. Purely vocational training accounts for the over_-—~—s«s@rowding in different professions. The true end of education
‘has been distorted. Today a man is trained to be eronomically
independent instead of independent of economics.

‘It is contended here that the present system of education

does not give the proper discipline to those who will some day
___ take an important position in a society growing more and more
complex. A training in the liberal arts would provide instruction not only in the great ‘classics’ of ancient times but would
drill the student in the best thought over the last tweny-five
A hundred years. A four-year course would begin with the
philosophy of Plato*and Socrates, and the science of Aristotle

bata and Euclid and work right up to the present. The best thought
of the sciences and the arts over the centuries would be the

| ~—«s subject matter. The teachers would be the original thinkers
Bo) themselves with the assistance and guidance of qualified pro| fessors. In this way we would not be robbed of our cultural
/ -~—~—s inheritance and would have the proper training to take up

quickly and ably the specialized task to which we set our mind.
_ This plan is thwarted by the elective system. A compulsory

___. four-year course of such a nature would not allow us to exploit

our eccentricities and would turn out the product demanded by
society but not reeeived by it.

oo A too-premature specialized education denies the belief that
Ms the proper study of mankind is man. It should be our aim that
Rk? each man in our society may and must perform the highest

function of which he is capable, which is the intelligent free

choice of the ends and means of both our common and individual
life. Only if his education has been a liberal one can his choices
be either free or intelligent. There are basic trainings and
ie understandings common to all vocations and therefore common
me, Bee asta hae of all free men. When the emphasis in our present
_ system has been shifted from education for a job to education
for living then, and then only, will the universities take their

ae aoe in the. life of the community. .

f

“Who are you?” demanded Dismore heavily.

“A burglar, Mr. Dismore, who has
found that you have put to your own
use a number of bonds belong to
your clients. I have all of their
names, In addition you are planning to leave for Europe on Wednesday with a friend—I won’t repeat
her name. She is well known in society. But does your wife know, Mr.
Dismore? Now you had better
phone the police.”

Dismore was trembling. “Let’s
sit down and consider this.” He was
now using the soft persuasive voice
that he so often turned on his clients.
“You say you need a job, and money.
I’m not a bad man to deal with. I
could find you a job with good pay,
say twent-five a week to start.”

“But,” said the burglar with rais
ed eyebrows, “the police. And break- | ;

ing into your house; what of that;”
| “We will forget that if—” Mr.
Dismore’s tone changed, “You will
first hand over the papers you have
| found.”

“Here are your papers.
about this job?”

“Come to my office tomorrow at
ten. Til see you get a job. How\ever, before you go I want you to
write this confession.”

The man hesitated, and then sat
down at the desk. Pen in hand, he
wrote as Dismore dictated: “I confess that on the night of April the
fourteenth, I broke into the house of
J. P. Dismore, Riverdale Road, with
the purpose of stealing money.”

“Sign your name,” ordered Dismore. “If you do sign an alias your
handwriting will discover you. Appear in my office tomorrow.”

But what

 

 

  

Dismore took the paper, folded it,
and motioned to the man to be gone.
The burglar glanced quickly at him,
stepped towards the open window,
and disappeared the same way he
had come. Dismore was haggard;
the ordeal had been a heavy one.
His hand shook as he poured a glass
of whiskey to help dispel some of
this peculiar nightmare.

* a *

Breakfast was usually a silent occasion at the Dismores. This morning it was different.

“What are you laughing about?”
Mrs. Dismore had watched J. P. for
about five minutes before she spoke.

“My dear, you didn’t know we had |
a ee last night?”

“What . ‘ ea?

“Wait now, let me tell you. I

= Pe
< e%

|
:

|
|

heard a noise around one o’clock this |

morning, and went downstairs to
investigate. There I found some unemployed fellow rummaging in my
safe for money. I didn’t want to
bother the police so took the matter
in hand myself. I made him sign
a confession and told him to come
around to my office today and I’d
give him a job. He’ll come all right
—and the police will be waiting.

“But John, I can’t see any sense
to it. What good is a written
confession ?”

“I have it here — read it.”
opened it, and read slowly

Mrs. Dismore took the folded
sheet, opened it, and read slowly.
“I confess to entering the residence
of J. P. Dismore to investigate some
papers in his possession. [I found
the information I was seeking. He
has put to his own use bonds belonging to Mrs. A. S. Childs. With
the money he is planning to leave
for Europe accompanied by society’s
most popular debutante, Hazel Deroche.

He

Hugh Hastings,
(Hastings and Smith

Detective Agency).
KAY REX.

REVERIES
Despairing and alone—
Strange fire in my soul.
Awake, O grace of lovely peace.
Dream-stricken, now arise
True loveliness and light;
Let drifting shadows fall
Away, for memory tonight.

Bitterness mar not my reverie.
Leave me alone with my dreams
And the dirge of a lonely soul.

Give me all that joy is
And glorious youth;
The strength of being free.
That is not strain not strife
Nor wracking to my soul.
Give me yet, the joys of the world’s
Store
A hundred nights set free
And love forevermore.
G. E. M.

 

eee ae ee ala. Sen ep tT Pe Pe

eat A ied

October 13, 1939.

 

“How about a night cap?”
“Make mine a Sweet Cap.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

DANCE

and 6 Act
FLOOR SHOW
Featuring

EVA DAVIS

MASONIC HALL
Cor. Barrington & Salter

Gentlemen, 50c
Ladies - - 25¢

Saturday Night

 

The Snack Bar”

|

:

where they serve

|
|| TASTY SANDWICHES
Also

Hot and Cold Drinks
Sandwiches Delivered

Faders Drug Store

29 Coburg Rd. Phone B-6003

 

 

 

 
 

Capitol
TODAY ~- SAT. - MON.
Today at 2.15 - 7.00 - 900

Saturday and Monday
Continuous from 1 to 11

It’s Smart to Eat
After The Show

The Cameo chefs are preparing your evening “snack” as
the last scene fades out at
your favorite movie. Many
theatre fans like to come to
the Cameo and discuss the
picture in comfort.

THE CAMEO

35 Spring Garden Road

GEORGE RAFT
JAMES CAGNEY

Each Dawn I Die
&

TUES. - WED. - THURS.

GLORIA JEAN

coe SAE | deni

The Under Pup

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. . B-6821

When Youw’re Down Town

Come in to PHINNEYS

We'd like to meet you, and
show you our fine line of

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

THE PHINNEY MUSIC CO., Limited
456 BARRINGTON STREET
SPORTING GOODS DEPARTMENT

 

     
 
  

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

  

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, A Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics,

Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses, ia standing, leading to degrees of

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

  
 
     
   

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

    
     
  

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;
in the B.Se. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

   

 
 

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
    
 
 
   
   
 
 
    
   
   
 
    
  
   
  
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
  

: Bob Weel, 484 ond year Dentistry
3 _ student — “I think we should have
pe | more gym dances, but by all means
" Bi ‘inue having the big dances in the
hotels. The number of dances should
be increased by adding informal
¥ eres, though.
ee . Bob Begg, 3rd year Medical stupe et - dent—“From the man’s point of view
I the question is purely financial. The
average male student on a smallish
eo ean afford only one hotel
ite a month, against two or three
gym dances. I like things as they
ee. are, the large dances at the hotels,
i! nee small parties at the gym.”
i _ Isobel Morell, Arts’42 — “I think
that both hotel and gym dances are
nice, but I wouldn’t want to see too
‘many hotel dances. The gym dances

t) _ Lincon Fraser, M.A. student —
_ “They’re both okay. But hotel dances
_ are more fun—there are more places

i . Helen Rogers, Commerce ‘41 —
“They both have their points. I
i oo I like the hotel merce better,

x And then, the floor at the
Ais. we is likely to be better than in
_ thegym—at least my feet don’t seem
st get as tired. Yes, I suppose that
Mh: sf your partner would have a lot to do

tes atte

Ri iS 2 J. Munro Reynolds, Commerce '42
far Bhs: —I like the hotel dances better, I
pe hy have more fun there. I realize that
‘the cost is greater, but girls appreciate” more being asked to a dance
when they. can get into their formal
. Sees oe aes of being dresved

Rie
Fee

_ Saturday afternoon brought the
_ Dal-Acadia football game and victory for the team. It is stated,
however, in authoritative quarters
ua that “the Little Salesman” of “Book
of Bunk” fame met defeat at the
ah oe hands of an Acadian chair which
had been inadequately tamed by the
a _Axemen and is quoted as being “al- most in the wild state”. Possibly
the victim will find it easier on the
e anatomy if he confines himself to
ps sitting on well saddle-broken mounts.
mi. An armchair almost never throws
pr. _ the occupant. Use of rockers is to
“ka be deplored. Hi-Yo Henry!

a
hte!

a

 

aR Concensus of opinion among the
dancing meds, of whom we have
asked an opinion, is that the dance
Bec given last week by the Student
Council was the most successful and
Bi enjoyable one they have yet produced. A saree part of the credit
BY “for the evening’s success, it is felt
B is due Mr. J. Reynolds, for his
masterful treatment of the burlesque
cy Roe an ‘elimination dance’.

i
ioe >

i
ee)?
xe.

Special Rates to Students
24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone B-6992

. » - Ma t
: “ *&
«A J ae
mid ee He
eh 5% . ave =r
- tr rie
Soke be
a =
ea ;
ul ' ns v tS Se

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

- json roads, development of the St.
: Lawrence waterway, the building of |
| dry docks, etc., at the same time|
implementing all this by a system
\of vocational and apprenticeship

renga esti des met to discuss its
| position and its future at Winnipeg
from June 30 to July 2. More than
half a million young Canadians were
represented by delegates from 289
organizations. Youth from the various nationalities, Protestant and
Catholic, young workers and farmers, unemployed and students, teachers and trade unionists, art groups
and sport societies, political youth
organizations and church young
peoples societies right across the
Dominion all came together in a
spirit of unity. This was the fourth
Congress that had met to discuss the
problems of youth, its difficulties and
responsibilities. The Congress was
a platform where all could find and
did find a common basis for agreement, a solution to the basic problems of youth, and a realization of

the need for unity to achieve a better |

life.

Here Young Canada, with its
ideals, hopes, and ambitions, showed

that it had constructive concrete

proposals for the kind of future it
wanted—A future of peace, democracy, and higher standards of living.
The Congress endorsed resolutions

calling for amendments to the B.N.A.

Act that would enable the Dominion

Parliament to pass national social

legislation such as national unemployment insurance, health insurance, crop insurance, legislation on
minimum wages and maximum hours
of work, and extension of education
and recreational facilities.

Opposition was registered against
any attempts to abolish provincial
and local forms of government as
harmful to democracy. The Congress
reaffirmed its beliefs in the princi-’
ples of freedom of speech, religion,
assembly and the right of citizenship.

The Congress, as it has done since
the days of its inception, unanimously supported the proposals that
the government introduce a wide

| system of public works which would |
create work for thousands and in
ance . pe eee

 
   

Gore | ‘Sehistenction of .

 

training.

Delegates believed that many jobs
would be opened if the old age
pension limit were reduced from 70°
to 65 years and the pensions increased to $30 a month. Canadian youth
believed that if the government

social services and consequent betterment of the conditions of the
Extension of the

urged to pursue sincerely a Solis
of collective security in international
politics. The Chamberlain policy of
non-intervention and appeasement
was sharply criticized. The great
majority favored conscription if
Canada should be attacked. With
only a small majority opposed, the
bloc of France, Britain, U.S.S.R., and
Congress voted in favor of a peace
U.S.A. to.halt further fascist aggression.

With the Japanese invaders using
Canadian nickel and scrap iron to
kill and maim the peaceful Chinese
people as well as peaceful residents
from foreign lands, (e.g., the two
Canadian missionaries who were
killed in Tientsin) the Congress favored an embargo on war materials to
the aggressors and a boycott against
all aggressor products. A highlight
of the Congress was a cable sent to
the youth of China pledging to them

"| the support of Canadian youth until

final victory.
DEMOS,

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s

Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

Sey: oid ee fe] aR 1S Bene ue

nd esting time.

 

' ee Re <_<.
0 ee
a

Woe rie <a Te ys

Pel pees tee
Ltr tee to oe
AM Lei f he ;

— ee Wao i

aR aa A
ait. i bea ae: ||
fol ee. ts

7 ory

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

C ampus ‘ Clatter

What a busy week-end Dalhousie
has had since Saturday morning!
Most everybody that wasn’t home
for the holidays went to Wolfville.
It was a grand trip. The highlights
were many. Cheerleaders Lawson
and Harvey certainly added something to the spirit of the game. We
tried to contact Condon or McNeil
in order to get first-hand information on the dampness of the climate
in Wolfville as compared with Halifax. Of course the pleasant surprise
(?) was when Dal won the game.

We’ve heard whispered comments

about the fact that lights were out
in the buses and everyone having a
good snooze, or, as one blushing
Junior from S. H. put it, “we
chatted”.
| Everyone was quite tired Sunday
either from the long trip or from
over-celebrating the victory. We
wouldn’t know which is to blame.
Would you?

ball trip to Truro. It’s been rumored

tell to leave with the team. It seems
there were two young ladies from
Normal School. Well, you understand,

The King’s Freshie-Soph was anether bright light. We hear that
the Sophs wouldn’t allow the Frosh
to “shag”. Now was that fair? We
ask you. Clyde Strickland was accompanied by the reason that takes
him over to Alexandra Hall so much
lately. The decorations were beautiful. Thanks should go to the poor
Freshmen who worked under the
warning eye of those awe-inspiring
creatures, the Sophomores.

Olga Mounsey may be Scotch as
to nationality, but that has nothing
to do with the number of men she
may gather in. Good authority announces that Olga entertained not
one but five gentlemen at cocoa
Sunday evening at the Hall. More
power to Olga!

Many of the Hall girls were away
for the holiday week-end. Libby
‘MacCurdy must have had an interAnyway, she came
s-| back from Yarmouth in a car bearing “Just married” signs. That’s all
we know. The rest of the story
hasn’t been revealed.

The Students’ Council dance was
successful in so far as upper classmen were concerned. The Frosh, for
some reason, didn’t understand that

admission was only a Students’
| Couneil card. We hope it won’t happen again. There will surely be an |
abundance of Frosh Friday night at
the Freshie-Soph.

We noticed Jack Woodbury enjoy
 

dance.
fortunate. She had two escorts—|
Miller Ballem and Archie MacKenzie. What more could you ask?
(Continued on page four)

Monday marked King’s big foot-_

that there was difficulty in per-/| ran
sauding Bob Walter and Bill Mar-,| spring’s term.

 

| Heastloas

a

The Book of Bunk

Chapter 1

This, the Sixth Book of Bunk in

the annals of the Lande of Dal, is
supposed to be the continuation of
the five books which preceded this

one. The Fifth Book of Bunk was
a chronicle of the activities of the
students and their societies, with a
sprinkling of comments from the pen
of the Master, who endeavoured to
reflect campus opinion as a whole.
When the Fifth Book was finished
last spring, the Master, tired, but not
defeated, laid down his pen, and now
with the opening of the Sixth Book
a Pupil takes hold of the mighty pen
to try his chance at writing this
book,

He is an ambitious One; aye so
much so, that he feels bold enough
to tread where the Master would not
look, and he feels that the Sixth
book will outshine all others, in portraying campus opinion and just
criticism in the students activities.

The last and Fifth Book of Bunk
in the Gazette during last

1. And so it came to pass, that
once again the Rulers of the
“Studes” of Dal have favoured the
whole “Stude Body” with a dance,
that was free. And lo and behold,
the place of the dance was filled.
Nothing exciting happened at the
place of merriment, and now that
their task is over, the responsible
parties can retire until the next election in the spring of 1940. How
lucky we are!

2. At this time of the year, there
is much looking forward, and little
looking backward in predicting and
betting on our warriors chance of
subduing the ‘Mighty Fifteen’. Time
will tell, but with or without the
consent of the ‘High One’ we now
have what the whole Body of Studes
wanted for decades.

3. Great was the multitude and
happy were they, on the return from
the land of the Wolf with the bacon
on Saturday. Poor were the sports
of the Rah-Rah Wolf team, so many
say, when with childish, mirthful
glee, they put the traditional lifeless
Tiger through flames of Hell. But,
let them in their enthusiasm not
forget that the spirit does not dies
with the gasoline flame; they will
know that the spirit is not dead
when they journey to the land of Dal
on October 2i1st. |

4. Quiet was the day before Mon
they were all allowed to go and that day, Thanksgiving, as is the lull

before the battle. But many surrounded the field of Studley, when
the invading Reds hit the dust on a
field before the Rugby
fifteen. Not in decline, but vice
versa, is the spirit of Dal. Pleased

ing quite a bit of “moon” at the were the “Studes” to have the High
One young lady was very| One take so much interest in our
second victory by celebrating it, and
| the holiday, by hoisting the flag to
the Studley mast. Even if they know
(Continued on page four)

 
 
  
 
    
 

MORE THAN 500
PATTERNS TO
CHOOSE FROM

 

 

 

A rchimedes,

“Eureka!” he shouted in triumph, “Behold now, Picobac!”

lacking his toga, never noticed the lack.

@ It is unlikely that your discovery of Picobac
will induce you to similar embarrassing behaviour. Nevertheless a modified cry of
“Eureka” may mark your introduction to
Picobac — it’s the pick of Canada’s Burley

crop and always a mild, cool, sweet smoke.
Withal, it is conveniently low in price!
also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH - 15¢
¥-LB."LOK-TOP" TIN - 60¢

  

There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — You'll Enjoy It!

College men, call at COLWELL’S
on Barrington Street for all your
clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accessories.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. 
A

DALHOUSIE
GIFT

To personalize that
gift, have BIRKS
attach the College
crest.

Halifax
It’s an exclusive

Birks service — for
Dalhousians.

NOW SHOWING
CHESTER MORRIS
in “BLIND ALLEY”

Second Feature
“S.0.8. TIDAL WAVE”
Also Cartoon

Mon. - Tues - Wed.

Henry Birks &
Sons Ltd.

 

H. B. Warner - Richard Cromwell
“OUR FIGHTING NAVY”
Second Feature
“FORGOTTEN WOMEN”
Two Good Shorts

Showings—2.15, 7.10, 8.30

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

TAILORED to MEASURE

TIP TOP CLOTHES
Do Thein Pant to Wake

ou
Look Youn Pant! ~~~

9 hs

 

HAND-CUT AND INDIVIDUALLY
TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL
MEASUREMENTS

Courtaulds "Quality-Controlied” Rayon Linings are an

extra value feature in Tip Top Clothes.

422 BARRINGTON STREET

LiFe TOL

TAILORS

Limited

 

 

 

 

 

 
     
   
  
 
 
  
  

b: ‘fought to a
red band of Acadia

2 game packed plenty of
nt and interest, and
be right up there fighting

one last of the season rolls Telieved the pressure of the Dal

ramet with a penalty kick to touch.

is The : .cadia fifteen had a decisive |
edge in play in the intermediate
ge Troke broke away to cross_
th the Dal line but was called back be, “ause of an offside. However,
i minutes later Phil Murphy gained
; sPastession of the ball from a scrum
on the Dal line, and managed to,
"worm his way across the Cubs’ goal
ie to notch Acadia’s first try.
yers failed to convert the try from
a very easy angle.
The Cubs, fighting hard and three
_ points down, had their efforts crowned with success a few moments later
when Allan Bundy eluded Acadia
_ backfield to cross the line to make
the score stand, Dalhousie 3, Acadia
_ 8. Handicapped by the loss of Dewar
oF died, who was forced to the side
__ lines early in the game, the Cubs
_ founght vanieniyy and gave Acadia’s
team” tit for 1 A momentary
lapse on the late: ‘of the Dalhcusie
team accounted for the Axemen’s
=i . final try. Murphy broke away for
oh dia; and-ran-25 yards, kicked the |
py San & another 15 yards, and when
a Murray,’ Dal safety man, failed to
: "catch the punt, Myers came out of
bers i _ nowhere, picked up the loose ball
eS “land raced across the line to give the
_ Aeadians the lead. Myers’ attempt
: eo, convert his own try failed.
‘Minutes later the Dal fifteen tied
| _ the. score, McNeil falling on the ball
at" - the Dal forwards had dribbled
Es ae a across the line. The game ended
‘ a with the Cubs fighting hard to count

-_additi itera! belnts to give them the

‘brought the play to the Dal 10

  

gold and black squad, kicked to
touch.

 

kick on the Wanderers’ 40-yard line,
but Norm MacRitice’s kick went
wide of the posts. Shortly after this,
Miller’s penalty kick from the Dal
30-yard line also fell short. The
opposing fullbacks, Spruin and Bird,
were relieving pressure with nice
kicks to touch. From a scrum on the
Wanderers 10-yard line, the ball
passed along the Dal three-quarter
line and Pauker went over the line,
only to.be called back by Referee
“Pooh” DeWolfe on an offside. In
the pinch, the Dal scrum again gave
the ball to the backfield and Solly
Chernin dropped the ball between
the posts to put the Tigers in the
lead at half time, 4-0.

Dalhousie kicked off in the second
half and dribbled the ball to the
Wanderers line, but Will Black,
speedy Wanderers three-quarter, in
 

  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 

me vr,

3 ey?

et
4 i pes:
eS 
“4

  
      
     
       
     
     
      

back to mid-field where he was
forced out of bounds. The Wanderers’ scrum was beginning to get
the ball out to the three-quarter line,
and the Reds forced the play to

  
     
 

  

 
       
   
    

ae

Bee's

 
 
 
 

  

Marty MacDonald, wing three-quarter with the Tigers, broke away at
mid-field and ran to the Reds line,
but -dropped the ball and Charley
Ryde fell’ on it for a safety. The
_| Wanderers were awarded a penalty
_ | kick on their own goal line. Bauld’s
"| kick fell into Bell’s arms, who booted
ieee second field goal to put the Tigers
ole yee pene 0) it 8-0.
ort as Gh ‘Down eight points, the Wanderers
‘i cas brought the play deep into Dal terns ‘ritory, but Don Bauld failed to
| | register on a penalty kick from a
‘difficult angle. Lewis and Black of
'|the Wanderers combined on some
; nice Tuns and came near scoring on
‘several occasions. The Reds were
fighting hard in an effort to break
into the scoring column. With only
a few minutes left, their efforts were
rewarded, the ball passing from the
Wanderers scrum in mid-field to the
three-quarter line and Rex Joudrey
smashed over the line near the
corner post. Doug Spruin failed to
convert from a difficult angle. The
game ended with the Wanderers
fighting hard to tie the score.
Clayton Hutchins and Sammy Bell,
both Dal backfield men, were injured and had to be removed -from the
play. Hutchins later came back to
finish the game.
Referee—“‘Pooh” DeWolfe.

  

      
     
     
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
  

7 oe ae

Meee 8: eo, s
Dalhousie Tigers, boasting a powerful scrum and a speedy backfield,
_ marched to an 8-3 win over Wand-erers Seniors, in a regular City
_ Senior Rugby League fixture played
at Studley Monday morning. The
- Ralston-coached boys had a decided
: edge in thd play, being in danger
_ ~~ only’on one or two occasions.

he _ Spectacular drop-kicking gave the
Bengals their victory, as Solly
Chernin and Sammy Bell, both former Mount Allison boys, booted field
goals from the 35-yard stripe. The
Dal scrum was working to perfec
 

  

 
   
   
     
   
   
 
        
   
 

*
; .
ey ae Ae
wry

f

 
 
      
 
      
    

tion, but loose ball handling on the} Line-ups:
three-quarter line mussed up several} Dalhousie: Fullback, Bird; three, close tries. quarters, Pauker, Bell, Hutchins,
ate In the early stages of the game,| MacDonald; halves, Burke, Eaton,
. Dal had a complete monopoly of} Chernin; forwards, Kerr, Ideson,
Ns serums, but the Reds’ three-quarter |} Macdonald, MacKimmie, Storey,
line men were keeping a close check | Vail, MacRitcie.
‘on the Dal line, and the Tiger three- Wanderers: Fullback, Spruin;

quarter line was unable to break
away. Don Bauld, playing at fly for
the Wanderers, starred in the kick-| forwards, West, Wallace, Wall, Dufing role, as time after time he lifted | fus, Arthur, Gunn, Miller.

THE GRAPEVINE GRAPHIC

three-quarters, Joudrey, Ryde, Black,
Lewis; halves, Bauld, Mont, Just;

 

 

BOYS / Boys £ —

et NEVER THE TABLE -*F00

41 LAMP So? ie

“

~

ti

,

y 7 ; 7 .
pet, ie Mee wee |G
a ety Pe aris, ae = Ae

AAT >. ful f (Me
in = ms
a am ees Sa at ce

My ‘4 7—% 7 ‘ :

itiga: nail oper’ the heads of the: Dal
6-all backfield. Play switched to midfield and the Dalhousie scrum were

OBE giving the ball to the three-quarter .q match of the City Intermediate
Raymond field last Satur- line almost every time, the Tigers on |

one occasion advancing to the Wand‘erers 10-yard line, where Don Bauld

‘The Redmen began to press hard and

-yard| counting six of the nine points on a
‘line, but Bird, safety man for the) try and a penalty kick. The Dal

Dalhousie was awarded a penalty |

tercepted a pass and ran the ball.

Dal’s five-yard line where Bird re-| Gregor, Hagen, Kirkpatrick, Janni- |
lieved pressure with a nice kick.| gan, Purves, Murray, MeColough.

 

Mh
a yf

*
— Reser ah ewe)

all probability, that she is a Hall |
girl and that she has probably been

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

GIRLS’ SPORT

Ground Hockey:

Just heard from Miss Wray that
practices will be on Wednesday,
Thursday and Friday at 3.30, starting Thusrday, Oct. 12. There is
plenty of equipment for this game
and we are looking forward to lots
of playing and a good team. It
would be nice to win a game or two
this year wouldn’t it

At the D.G.A.C. meeting Tuesday,
Dot MacKenzie was elected ground
hockey manager—she’s a good person for the job.

October 13, 1939

 

  
     
   
 
  
   

     
 

 

Welcome Co-Eds

We invite you to visit this smart beauty
shoppe where you will receive the latest
hair styles under the direction of “Marquis”’.

20% Discount to
College Students.

Cubs Win, 9-0
Dalhousie Cubs blanked the Wanderers by a score of 9-0, in a schedul
{Rugby League, played at Studley
lageriday: The Cubs showed speed,
| power, and nice kicking in scoring
| their first win of the current season.
| Don MacNeil, former New Glasgow High boy, lead the Cubs attack,

Emile |
| Hairdressing

| Oxford Theatre Bldg.

| Marquis, Manager

| Anne ere oe

 

 

 

squad had a decided edge in the
scrum and backfield work, this perhaps being due to the fact that the
Wanderers could field only 13 men
for the game.

Picking the ball from the scrum on
his own 25-yard line, MacNeil gave
a fine exhibition of broken field running as he eluded his tacklers and
ran about 75 yards for Dalhousie’s
first try. Soon after, MacNeil added
another three points to the Cubs’
score, when he counted on a penalty
kick from close in. The half ended
6-0, with the Wanderers fighting
hard to cross the Dal line.

The second half produced rather
ragged ball handling, opportunities
to score being lost by both teams as
a result or bad passing on the threequarter liné. The Dal squad dribbled
the ball deep into the Wanderers
territory, where from a scrum on the
three-yard line, Smith, diminutive
pick, fell on the ball to bring the
score at the close of the game to
9-0.

By Tes

Again we are going to see those |
delightful freshette gym classes. It
really does one good to see those
big classes of girls doing exercises
and liking it. By the way, what |

The College Man’s Clothes Shop

We specialize in smart, hard-wearing clothing and
furnishings chosen particularly for the tastes and
needs of college men... . and priced to fit their
pocket books.

colour will the rompers be this year?
| These classes will be held on Monday
and Wednesday at 2.30.

 

Basketball:

This is one game we can’t start
practising too soon. Last year an
interclass league was. started and
succeeded fairly well: now that a
start has been made it looks as if
it’s going to be a big thing this
year. There were three teams last
year, the freshettes, sophomores,
and junior-seniors. The freshettes |
won the league.

There has been a cup donated for
this league—we'’re not sure where it
came from but we have it and that
is the main thing. So now there is
the cup as well as the honour for |

which to work. |

ASK THE SENIORS, THEY’LL SAY—

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 

 

COME!

FRESHIE-SOPH

eee

 

Campus Clatter—

(Continued from page three)

The Frosh on the campus have apparently decided for themselves that
initiation has finished. Anyway, both
girls and boys have discarded their
regalia. It is quite a surprise to
see, now and then, a girl wearing a
plaque. The answer to that is, in

!
Dalhousie: Fullback, psec There has not been much news |
three - quarters, Bundy, MacNeil, about the intercollegiate league as D A N ( C
MacKenzie, Kinley; halves, Smith, | yet. U.N.B. entered it last year and »> »>
Burchell, Ferguson; forwards, Mac-| that rather upset things. However,
we hope it will soon be satisfactorily | : .
settled—we want to get in games GYM — TONITE— |
6 av. | colleges. | !

| The classes in. golf seem to be
much bigger this year. It’s a good
game and here is your chance to
learn—and it won’t cost you anything. Miss Wray has some clubs
and balls so all you have to do is
get out there and swing. What if
you do miss? everybody does.

Gerry Naugier’s
10 Piece Orchestra

Dancing 9— 1.30
Refreshments

 

 

SHOES

For College wear or for

gently reminded by a Sophomore to
wear her plaque, or else!

Shirreff Hall Initiation brought
forth hidden talents. We think the
Glee Club might like to hear what
has been passed on to us. Norma
Roberts gave splendid initiations of
George Arliss and Martha Raye. A
Prince Edward Island lass, Helen
Lawson proved to be a_ splendid
model. Our other Scotch friend,
Yvonne Mounsey, did very well when
she imitated one of the worthy
sophomores.

We'll wind up now. But first, did
you see how the brick wall next
to Oxford St. has crumbled in front
of Shirreff Hall? The story is short. |
A car was parked in front of the|
Hall on Saturday noon and it began |
to slip. Well, there was a big crash |
and a few dents in Mr. Musset’s car. |
And it used to be such a nice wall!

the Dance are better at
WALLACE’S.

The Student’s Shoe Store

Wallace Bros.

“Specialists in Fitting”

415 BARRINGTON STREET

 

DE Licious
Ree ee

 

TTD
Negi?

  
  

   
 

 

~Weilson's

100-2 ee he “THE BEST CHOCOLATE WADE |

   

Cherrio! | . New Method
—_——— — | b Watch $]
Book of Bunk— Cleaning
(Continued from page three) Guaranteed 1 year

 
 

Main Springs, $1.00

OXFORD

Jewellery Store
i» 75 Barrington St.

there is a war going on, some things |
should be done.

5. Thanks and kind regards go to

   

  

   

the little College town boys for their |
hospitality on Saturday’s visit.

And here endeth the first Chapter |
of the Sixth Book.

     

 

— ae There Is an Underwood |

;

Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose.

w

y

‘Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

 

1465 HOLLIS ST. HALIFAX, N.

‘ihe vo

 

}
of ECU EN HUNTED,

WHEN YOU NEED:

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

AAA AAA NNN

 

 

 

Hi rg
MOY
Ln
a in

au Tt '
TOTTh 5
mer if
bd °
1!

%

Al ei

| Ply

ie

ci

 

int
4. _ 2 = ‘’
Se eee Dee fet <tenee o-a0 een ern fy = yee gn eg tel pi

ey ep Rp

 
