i a eigen

. at Ef
©
—:
ig a ui i
fae meet

oe: CT oa
ma ff ae

    
 
 
  
   

a ashes effort, the 1940 edition of Dal hockey Tigers ham- mered out a decisive 7—2 victory over a fighting King’s team, |
_ who were on the ice for the first time. The victory places Dal |
Pie in. a tie for place in the league with one win and one loss. )
Rain Ee Tigers | outscored their opponents 3—1 in the first
ri period, 2—1 in the second period, and scored twice without®
reply in the third as the Kingsmen tired. Top scorer for the |
- gold and black was John Bickie, who scored three unassisted |
~ goals. Churchill Smith and Norbert Grant had a goal and as-'
sist apiece, with George Corston and George Collins getting the,
other Dal tallies. The defense pair of Webby MacDonald and
Marty MacDonald worked well, both men being dangerous |
-_ rushers. ’
Peers The first. period vara with a a
to end rushes and Munro handled ‘
the first shot on a raid by Strick-|/| ,,. Obituary =
land and Mai rtell. - Shortly after: is many friends will be shockeA yERtA “eobred ibid ofirat/ soa! ed to learn of the sudden death
_ from a scramble around the King’s of) Dy, Jack: Victor, in Wood, teire at the'4.00 ee wade, Ags haven, Long Island. Dr. Victor,
i, derson, King’s defense, man; -was who was only 28 years of age,
dumping Dal forwards with heavy was visiting with his father when
( “hocks at this point. Penalties at he complained of feeling ill. An
‘this | int to Marty MacDonald and ambulance was summoned, but he
a: ive passed away almost immediately.

in ‘Succession | ae ss Dr. Victor was graduated in.
Dentistry from Dalhousie Uni’ i versity in 1937, and was engaged
in practice in*Long Island. He
was very well liked and took an
‘active part in sports at the University, where he coached the
wrestling team, and was a member of the Students’ Council.

—— |

 

   
   

 

 gec bad. ma ‘on ils Ma outhtn a .
‘ ie effort, Grant to Corston, who
eet home. At this point in the
- game Dal played pond hockey and
King’s scored their first goal when
. es “Martell went from end to end on a
solo effort, firing a high angle shot
to the upper left corner.
a A penalty to King’s gave Dal a
Pr chance, but poor shooting and lack
_ of combination made the boys lose

many good opportunities to score.
Continued on Page Four

 

Sincere sympathy is extended to
his parents, his brother and three
sisters who survive him.

 

N. F. C. U. S. Regional
Chairman |

‘ Morris To

- Move Amendment
At a meeting of the Arts &
c Science Society to be held next
ae Thursday, a motion by Ed. Morris

concerning Freshmen Status in the
Society will be presented in the form

of a constitutional amendment. Fur‘ther, the idea of a Studley Society,
ry mentioned elsewhere on this page,

ie will be presented and the whole
question of the “FRESHMAN
STATUS ON THE CAMPUS” aired
by a group of four two-minute
speeches. McKean, Swansburg, are
sto be heard from as representing the
é _ Senior and Soph. views, and Hagen
a and McIntosh will talk for the
4 _ freshmen. Below is Morris’ proposed amendment:
_ WHEREAS it is deemed advisable
3 4 to permit entrance of Freshman stu- SKATING NIGHT AT ARENA
fi. dents into active membership of the Next Wednesday will be Dalhousie
_ Arts & Science Society at an early night at the Arena, starting at 8
b _ date, and WHEREAS, the present p-m. and winding up at 11. There
2 7 oo of the Arts & Science] vin be a colossal hockey game bei iety withholds active membership |t een D.A.A.C. and the Filthy Fifre to freshmen students until the sec- teen, otherwise known as the Stues ie Bn ett aa |dents’ Council, followed by free
bs et All freshmen students be admitted eet. Bee ees as Be
ee the Arts & Science Society as
active members at the first meeting
i : of she Society held after the first

of November in their year of

8 ent! A ice
4 a. . Teta

 

HENRY ROSS

 

    
  
  
 
    
  
    
   
 

DAL HOCKEY AND

e
iz

    
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
 

NOTICE

Delta Gamma meeting in Room 4
of the Arts Building, Tuesday at 12
o’clock. Important business—Every
 

 

     

~~ Norice ree
See
rt y group on “The Student
at Crisis”, with Professor NOTICE
RES in th Delta Gamma Open House Shirreff

night | Hall, Saturday, Jan. 20. 8.15 p.m.
| 11.45 p.m. Music. Food. (No
eee eee enesecried }.

/ 
4

 

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 12, 1940

 

re ee =

 

 

 

 


 

ARTS AND SCIENCE WORK ~ Te

FOR STUDLEY UNITY

Executives of the Engineers, Com
merce and Arts and Science Socie- |

ties met Tuesday to consider a plan |
forwarded by Don MacKiegan, Arts |
and Science Society President, to
form a Studley Society which would
act as financial backer for functions
promoted by societies which have
not sufficient funds and seek gener
ally to bring about a needed condi- | continued as a boon to unity and co
tion of unity on the Studley campus. |
Necessitated by. the slip-up at the |
terms commencement last fall, when

no class dues were collected from |
the incoming freshmen, the suggest-| executives for approval .
ed organization would pass on plans

 

entertainments and proportion re-|
sulting losses or profits according to
a ration to be agreed on (possibly
1-3-10).

Tuesday’s meeting seemed in unanimous’ agreement that such an arrangement would solve the present
plight of the penniless frosh and
possibly, if successful this year, be}

 

:

| ordination of the various poorly related Studley organizations. !

The plan will be presented to the
various societies by their respective
Arts and
Science will consider same at their

 

of the frosh and their peru | ae poe tian next.

 

 

~ COUNCIL SOLONS MEET

Almost, but not quite, recovered|the Students, his word to be final in
from the vacation, the members of|the event of any ambiquity arising,
the Council of the Students took up| was passed.

again their task of administration
last Sunday afternoon.
ness to come up after the reading

of the minutes was the reports from)

various committees.

The Student Handbook Committee
reported a net profit of $44.50 to the
Council on the Handbook.
MacKean gave a feport of the last
meeting of the Student Gymnasium
Committee, which revised the gym
schedule for the present term.

A net profit of $18.80 came to the
Council from the sale of programs
at the late lamented Caledonia football game. President Barton read
the financial report of the Council,
which to date is quite satisfactory.

The next business to be brought
up was the question of pictures
for the Year Book. (Graduating

students please notice). It was
decided that individual pictures
would do most for the collective
beauty of the members, and arrangements were made to have
the necessary pictures taken.

A motion that Dean’ Vincent MacDonald of the Law School be re
quested to act as the interpreter of | A.C. were to restrict themselves to
the Constitution of the Council of; their honorable members they would
‘.

First busi-| Glee Club, presented a request that,

Doug; approval of the Council.

: dents’

Henry Reardon, President of the

instead of putting on a special show
for the Services, either the threeact play or the Munro Day Show be
played an extra night for their
benefit. This proposal met with the
Mr. Reardon then revealed that he had had
two offers to buy that bone of contention—the Wurlitzer. It was the
unanimous opinion of the Council
that more noise would be made
about the removal of the Wurlitzer
from the gym store than there was
about its installation. Also Mr.
Reardon pointed out the need for a
new piano in the gymnasium.

The meeting ended on a note of
merriment with the reading of a
letter from the campus dictator,
Ralph Payne, challenging the StuCouncil to a hockey game
with the “honorable” members of
the D.A.A.C.—the Council members
to be known as “yellow sissies” if
they did n6t accept.

It was felt by at least one member of the Council that if the D.A.

a
SS i

 

 

egates Impress Thursday Meeting
ERS TRIM KINGSMEN, 7- 2

Mea individual class and scoring punch, but low auf

 

OTTO ANTOFF

 

GRADUATES, ATTENTION!
YEAR BOOK PICTURES
Graduates positively must have
their pictures taken by January 20
if they desire to have themselves recorded in the annals of Dalhousie.
The Year Book promises to be exceptional this year, so hurry!
DANCING IN THE GYM
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
Starting Saturday and providing
keen competition to the proverbial
“sucker” dances, the tin-gods have
decided that there will be dancing
in the Dal gym from 9 p. m. on
every Saturday night.
WINDEBANK AND LAWSON
TO CONTEST BY-ELECTION
On Tuesday next, there will be a
by-election for Arts and Science
students to decide on their Council
representative. This position was
vacated by Gordon Kinley, who recently joined the R.C.A.F. The powers that be expect a large vote on
these two well-known candidates.

 

 

have to recruit from outside societies to form even a skeleton team.
The challenge was accepted and the
game is to take place before the
Skating Session. After which grim
decision the meeting adjourned.

| reporting on the C.S. A.
| Cc. U.S.

off, Otto

glowing terms of the
| indevetatiding and plans for action

 

No. 10

 

 

Enthusiatic Reports
of Two Conventions

A small section of the student
body gave an enthusiastic reception
to the speeches of the five delerates
and N.F.
Conferences yesterday in
the Chemistry Theatre. Leading
Antoff expressed thanks
for the opportunity that had been
given to the delegates and spoke in
enthusiasm,

that the conference had promoted.

|A basis of understanding, he said,
'had been laid upon which divergent
: . | groups of language and racial heri
tage could henceforward come to
| gether.

* ok *

HENRY ROSS
N.F.C.U.S. dele
Henry Ross,

gate, outlined the advantages gain
|ed for students by the Ottawa con-~
| ferences: a great saving to colleges
in purchasing of sports equipment
wand to students desiring to travel

Europe; commencement of an

| attempt to have concessions granted
|in the matter of play royalties; the
‘valuable system of exchange schol-arships familiar to Dalhousie stu
dents.

Discussing the problem of amalgamation, Ross pointed out that a
plan had to be developed whereby
students’ councils would not be expected to delegate their powers to
an outside body. He deseribed the
projected plans for a biennial Canadian Student Federation discussed
elsewhere in this paper.

, »

BETTY SANDALL

Betty Sandall enlarged on the
question of racial understanding as
approached by the commission on
Canadian Unity, commenting on the
impressiveness of the bilingual nature of the conference and the plans
evolved.

French schools were approved of
for the Manitoban French minority
and means diseussed whereby English and French students, particularly the former, could become better acquginted with each other’s language and customs.

Cle Oe

INEZ SMITH

Rolling up her sleeves and thumping on the table, Inez Smith was
the first of the speakers to abandon
her notes and quicken the meeting
to active attention. Miss Smith was
applauded for demanding active participation by Maritimers in a campaign for Federal Government
Scholarships, funds for which had
been made available to other universities and could be secured for
Maritime universities by local efforts.

Ki ee
WILFRED BURCHILE

Best speech of the day was delivered by Wilfred Burchill who, in
commenting on problems of National
Unity, raised by the conference, put
political, economic and soeia} problems confronting students above
racial ones. Local problems, he
urged, must be seen by students in
relation to national ones and the
whole problem of amending the
British North America Act must be
dealth with if a solution of Canadian problems is to result.

It was stupid, asserted Burchill,

for University students to eontent.
Continued on Page Four

ee ee ee
rin a

 
   
 
  

 

 

 

    
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
    
   
   
  
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  

 

‘Canad

_ convened at their respective conferences at
the last’ issue of the Gazette we were

 

Me, fe ee by the editor the McGill Daily to
4 apo our opoinion on the proposed merger otf the

    

9 organizations. The tollowing was the stand
n by y this paper some two weeks before the

ame up at the conferences:

e theme “Canadian Unity and Education,”

which will be the main subject tor discussion at the

  

: - third C.S.A. conference, might very wel be applied
_ to the proposed amalgamation of the C.S.A. and
the N.F.C.U.S. Student opinion at Dalhousie is

behind the ideals of both these organiza
tions, but at the same time it is generally felt that

their fundamental objectives are the same and that

these objectives could be better achieved if the two

bodies worked under one permannt executive instead of two distinct ones as at present.

“A comparison of their acknowledged goals reveals a fundamental similarity of purpose, while
common action on matters like scholarships shows
that their general interests are the same.

“On the other hand, duplication of conferences
and executives runs into expenses that a small
university like Dalhousie can ill afford. In days

_ gone by, the N.F.C.U.S. has shied away from the
egbube

versial subjects that have been one of the
chief concerns of the C.S.A. Yet these “controversial” subjects are just as important to the na
tional life of Canadian students as the more

_ “practical” problems which at present engage the
attention of the N.F.C.U.S. A biennial assembly
to discuss “controversial” and administrative prob
ems, and a permanent unified executive to carry
out the recommendations of the conferences and
keep things running in the interim between conferences should not be impossible.”

The above was one of a series of editorials con
tributed from universities across the country,

The views expressed were practically unani
| . mous in pressing for the unification of the two
<M _ organizations, the only dissenting voice coming
ee from the University of British Columbia.

At the C.S.A. conference just concluded, a

5 special committee was set up to consider a basis

of co-operation between the N.F.C.U.S. and the
‘C.S.A. for the purpose of forming one new National Student Organization. The final judg
ment of the committee was that the plan was
quite feasible. In brief it was proposed that a

new body, the Canadian Students’ Federation
(tentative name only) should be formed with a
local branch on each campus to replace the
existing branches of the-N.F. C. U.S. and the
C.S.A. The plan arranged for the elimination
of overlapping functions, for continued separate

_ national executive and for the retention of what
was best and unique in the existing bodies.

The C.S.F. offers great possibilities. Under
unified control and representing all the societies
and other interested people on the campus it

to be invaluable in an instrument for

solution of national problems and a unifying
factor in Canadian university life. There are
innumerable things which can be better executed by a unified national body than by two

_ geparate organizations which have the divided

oui of Canadian students—intercollegiate
tes, national’ action on scholarships, student cooperatives, exchange scholarships, employment assistance, health protection, studies
of student problems, of democratic student life
—to name some of the more important projects

which are an organization could effectively

ue ed education in this country has a vital

decision to make. As the problems on the national and international stage became more

varied and intense as the days go by, the need

_ for concentrated effort on the part of Canadian
_ students becomes more and more apparent. In

the past decade a fine effort to solve these

   

problems was made in erection of the N.F.C.

U.S. and the C.S.A. At the recent conferences
it was obvious that present machinery is not
adequate to meet existing needs. As the term
progresses the question of amalgamation will
be presented to. the students of this university

im and it is to be hoped that they will not be found

iting on such an important decision. This
will be quite simple if we see that by pressing
for unification we will not only be furthering

| od our own ends but making a contribution to

adian university life. The educated mind is
by a liberal rather than a provincial}
it. If the students of Canada are to present
nited front on matters that are of fundaent importance not only to the institutions
hig ner learning themselves, but to the

«Eee ¢ welfare as well, then an organ is needed

 

yu eto way students can express
a Boa en It is»
. that a Canadia

 

 

(Mr. Webster MacDonald. read by all concerned and any suggestions passed on
Waiter, Dalhousie Gagette to your Council members before it is ratified by the
a : Students’ Council.
Dear Sir:
Fred Barton asked me to write to D. A. A. C.

bie Gazette and explain all about the The committee considers that the requirements for

 
     
  
  

Codeine was the
osed ion between that body and
Na ati Oo or a . WE idoution of Canadian University
dents, to both of which organization this
hen rsity belongs. For some time there has
Tae “not been al of the co-ordination between these
two bodies that might be desired and the overdete of function and the double expense entailed made the question of amalgamation|:

eves cae before the C.S.A. and N.¥.C.US.,

‘Students Ted.

 

7

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE January 12, 1940

 

Reports of Awards Committee

_ Who Was
Editor’s Note: At the request of the Students’

‘. : ’ ‘
Jimmy Malcom? Council the following report of the Awards Committee
is published in the Gazette. It is hoped that it will be

_|meaning of the Malcolm Award. D.A.A.C. awards are in general very satisfactory, and
"| That is, he asked me to preform an provides a convenient and suitable standard by which
impossible task, for this award is to set reasonable requirements for corresponding
founded on an ideal and hence it can-| 2Wards by other student organizations.

not be explained or defined. About However, the following amendments and additions
1927-28 certain Dalhousie students | t© the requirements as set out at present in the conand graduates argued thusly:—‘At stitution of the D.A.A.C. are respectfully submitted.

Dalhousie we award Gold D’s; B.A’s;

Felt D’s; B.Se’s; Gold Medals, and ‘ BOXING “How did you get rid of Zelma?”’
other distinctions ad infinitum. We The present Article No. 27, Sect. 3 (a), Sub. Sect. 7, “I told her § was out of Sweet Caps.”
confer honour on students by elect-|*? be replaced by the following:— '

ing them to be President, Vice- “To a member of the boxing team who has attended

President and Secretary of this and| 77 Of the regular training periods, has competed in
‘that society, but do these awards the eliminations and the inter-collegiate Boxing Tourand elections necessarily indicate or nament and who has been recommended for such award SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
select the highest type of student? by the managing committee. The manager and coach!
We think not. The awards already of boxing shall be consulted in making these awards.” “The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

being given by both the faculty and
students may lay emphasis on the HONORARY AWARD
non-essentials. THE most important Article 27, Sect. 2, Sub. Sect. 4, providing for the

things have to do with character,|#Ward of an honorary award to be amended by the in
and cannot be measured by the vate sertion of the words “other than a member’ between MACLEOD, B ALCOM, LIMITED

sticks already in use. We believe| Person” and “who” in line 1

that something should be done to .

counteract the false emphasis in the MINOR AWARD Es eh 2
now existing award; and that THE As an addition to the present provisions of the D.
most important things shou.d receive| A. A. C. constitution for the awarding of minor felt
a special award that woud have a|D’s to members who comply with the requirements .
place of honour above all others.”| there set out — Article 27, Sect. 3(b) and (c)—it is|}, Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.
Thus was instituted the Malcolm] recommended that provision should be made for a suitHonours Society. To be elected a|able award to be known as the “Minor Award” to be
member of this society became at/ presented to a member who has been awarded his minor
once the most covetous prize at/felt D, or any combination of these D’s, major and
Dalhousie. The founders recognized | minor.

the intangible nature of the qualities To this end your committee recommends the addinecessary for membership. They did| tion to Article 27 of a section in the following terms.
not lay down rules and regulations. | Sect. 3 (d):

 

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements

 

Ask For
FARMERS’ ICELAND BARS

That was impossible. ‘hey said, Minor Award: To a member who has been awarded
“Let us select as a type some former | his first three minor fe!t “D’s”, or any combination of |} A DELICIOUS REFRESHMENT
Dalhousie student who in his charac-| three “D’s” major and minor, as provided in this article. | }f
ter exemplified most of the attributes The question of presenting a sweater t duati .
p q P Seer Th Snore “Taste the Difference”

which we regard as essential. Then|members of senior teams was discussed, but your comthis sutdent’s activities and character | mittee felt that this will require further examination
will be the best guide for those who| before a considered opinion can be given. | Ee ;

have to make the selections.” The

student they named was James Mal- GLEE CLUB ARMERS LIMITED
colm. They said “We do not mean The requirements for Glee Club awards were liketo suggest that Malcolm was perfect,| wise found to be generally satisfactory as set out in|} HALIF AX, N.S.
but while he lived, he approached| Article II of the Glee Club constitution. However, the
very near to our ideal.” following recommendations are made:—

Who was this James Malcolm? 1, That the provision awarding three (3) points to
He graduated before I came to col-|2" “assistant Director” in Section A of Article IT be
lege, but I know him. He was a| deleted.
good student, but not one of those 2. That the words “though this can be disregarded
brilliant student meteors who occa-|0" the recommendation of the executive” be deleted
sionally flash across the academic| from the last two lines of Section A of Article II.
sky. He played football in the 3. That the position of property manager remain
scrum, and being a hard and able| 0" @ salary basis. However, if the basis is changed
player was one of the idols of us| Points should be awarded till the passing of the final
younger high school boys. He was| inventory.

a member of many student societies | BAND It’s Smart to Eat the Dance are better at
and worked hard in their activities,| The present requirements for the Band “D” were|} After The Show WALLACE’S.

but he was not a chronic office! felt to be somewhat below the standard maintained by | f
holder. He was a favourite but the organization already dealt with, and the following |} The Cameo chefs are prepar
 

SHOES

For College wear or for

would not have won a popularity!Yequirements are recommended:— ing ious hay gaat vr The Student’s Shoe Store
contest. He was not a “sheik”, or a A felt “D” shall be warded to a member who has | f your favorite eg Melee

“sissie” nor was he a “Tarzen”. The| attended 75% of performances and practices in any theatre fans like to come to

impression of him which remains| Year in which the band has a minimum of 30 perform-|}| the Cameo and discuss the Wallace Bros.
most vivid with me, is that he was|2nces and practices. picture in comfort. a a

sincerely respected by all who knew A Gold “D” shall be awarded to a member who. has “Specialists. in. Fitting”
him, these included the average stu-| been awarded his first three felt “D’s”. THE CAMEO

dent, the dirty player who was 35 Spring Garden Road (it BARRINGTON STREET
foolish enough to give him an unfair SODALES

 

dig, the members of the faculty and In view of the difficulty of determining with cer
business men in the city. Some kind| tainty the present requirements for the Sodales “ay

of a conference was being held down| this award required special attention.

town. My father was a representa- To maintain the comparative equality which it has

tive from the business men. Malcolm| been attempted to establish among the various awards

was present in some capacity. Later it has been found necessary to recommend the adoption

I heard Father say: “That man from|°f drastic revision with respect to this award.

Dalhousie named Malcolm, is cer- The new requirements submitted are as follows:—

tainly a fine chap. He has a long A Gold “D” is awarded to a member who gains a

head on his shoulders.” Malcolm| total of 20 points and is recommended for such award

had a girl and a pretty girl she was by the executive of Sodales.

too. This girl had a young brother. Points are to be earned on the following basis:—

The brother had a party. I was at 1. For participation in an inter-collegiate platform

the party. Jimmie Malcolm and the| debate. Five (5) points.

older sister were there to entertain 2. For participation in an inter-collegiate radio be
us and thus gave us a good time.| Pate. Two and one-half (2%) points.

We younger boys stepped around in The President of Sodales receives a credit of ten

wonder and open-eyed admiration| (19) points.

when in the presence of the famous GAZETTE

Jimmie Malcolm. Not long after The Editor of the Gazette shall have a discretion

leaving college Malcolm went to the|t0 award a maximum of ten (10) points towards a

rescue of a person who was drown-| Gazette “D” to the News Editor, Sports Editor, and

ing, but was himself drowned in his| Proof Editor who holds such a position for a full year.

attempt to save this other life. If two or more persons hold one of these positions
Phad wei hive Auinee Malcolm a jointly, the ten (10) points shall be spportioned at the

thes type to be used as a guide in discretion of the Editor.

making the highest award at Dal- The discretion between the Gazette “D” and the

housie. Define what he stands for?| Literary “D” must be clearly defined. The Editor of

Gnivousthle!: Try to” define! honesty, the Gazette must adhere strictly to the column value

igadership, integrity, loyalty, ability. of any contribution, without regard to literary merit

Sead | Companiondhin, ynaciish . \set- awarding points towards the Gazette “D”.

vice, a good citizen, etc. For me

to attempt such a thing would be D. G. A. C. , .

obviously absurd. So I cannot do! BASKETBALL

exactly what Barton asked, but per- Avplayer shall merit a felt “D” if during one’ season

haps the above will be of some. use. she has played on the basketball team in at least 15%

Yours sincerely, of all games, and in which she has played for at least

40% of the total playing ti 3
H. P. BELL : ahve ir sa tabs pili Use THE GAZETE ADS, That’s What They Are For.

   
 
 
   
    
   
  
   
   
 
  

——- Balhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.

Includes all the principal Faculties of a "Uni i
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Fasten Canada

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus. -+- Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Graticeriag: Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics.

Modern Languages and Histor
Graduate Courses, or Pas standing, leading to degrees of i

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees; in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;

in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women,
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

  

 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
       

LEAP YEAR

 

it—so what’s the difference ? 7
te Year? I don’t know! (Giggles).

Bi lot of hooey!

nobody ever does — anything.

Year.”

to get rid of their daughters!”

cal student—‘I think it’s great!

_ every four years!”
(Columnist’s
practical angle!)

dental student —
stuff.

   

Se eile ee

Charlotte Sullivan, Arts’ 41 —
refuse to commit myself!”

dent—
prospects!”

I will not open by wishing you all
a Happy New Year because the

bad taste in the mouths of too many

why is Doug DeLong so mad at one
_ professor in particular? We all have
_ to take our medicine, Doug.

At the beginning of a new year,
_ however, we like to see some evi__ dence of improvement over the old
_ year. For instance, the first column
_ of this series dealt with hazing, and
_ its archaic and unnecessary humilia_ tions. The subject of hazing should

_. come up at our next student forum.
Surely here is a field in which there
_ is much room for improvement. |
a Boys of at least one fraternity will
_-not be weaklings. Daily they may
_ be seen, future Charles Atlases};

every one, briskly hiking the long
____ trail from their New Home to Forvest or Studley. There is a new
_ spring in their step, a new gleam in
_ their eyes! Perhaps all Dalhousians
_ should take a fast walk before
classes! Perhaps during classes!
_~~~~+=Among recent suggestions submitted for publication are, a bomb-proof
_ shelter on Forrest Campus, camou flaging the Medical Library, and a
skating party for Dalhousians at an
early date. Snow suggest sleigh_ rides followed by dances in the lower
gym. Just a Thought,

About one prominent third year
lad, it isreported that he met every
_ in-coming train at the station during
Me the two days preceding the opening
of college in order: that the out-of+. town girls should not suffer from
Ee i neglect and that he could be sure
that he had wished everyone Happy
oe a eee Year-in his ‘inimitable way. |
Py Korky Koretsky was greeted b
be this same lad and his satellites and

what a shock for Korky; they in| formes: him thet ae Be had been

 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 

5 Nt Burnham, Ist year medical|
_ student—“It’s a great chance for us
girls, but nobody ever makes use of
| Bible says, “Do unto others as you
Helen Sayer, Arts 42 — “Leap

  
  

Betty Bligh, Science *40—“Just a
Doesn’t give a girl a
chance. What I mean—it’s silly!
‘There’s a lot of talk about it, but
‘It
doesn’t really make any difference,
because if a girl is going to do the
proposing, that sort of girl would
do it anyway, Leap Year or no Leap

Sollie Medjuck, 2nd year medical
student—“It’s a hell of a fine thing.
It saves men the trouble of proposing to women; and moreover since
there are more women than men in
the world, it gives parents a chance

Yvonne Mounsey, Freshette —
“Just a year with another day in it.”
Frances Anderson, Ist year mediI
wish my birthday was February 29
—then I’d only have a birthday

  
     

note: At last the

J. F. Glafsie) Condon, 2nd year
“Tsk! Tsk! Tough
I keep in ne every night.”

   
  

sep

Sammy Bell, Ist year medical stu“Leap Year? ees it has its

  
   

   
 

phrase and its associations leave a

 
    

a) readers. And speaking of bad taste;

 
     
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
 

 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

hit,

Kay Robinson will caused teach it to
eee =

| day.
'| Frenchman at the Forum, Gennie.

{; town, his fraternity pin, left in the
hands of a trusted brother had come
to - “repose, and was then reposing
fl over the heart of a Halifax girl.
= peas: ee _ other plans; it was

- f fp mura.s

sew, eeiatiiedl you fished for an

| Engineers’ column in~ the Gazette

|and those who cried for ‘this little
vi | bit of nonsense will be the ones who
e will regret their hasty eee: no

   

doubt.

‘Now, as I was saying, fier the way,
Butch had better remain awake if
he wishes to pass his Mechanics, the

     
 

 
     
       
  

would have done unto you.” Take
|heed Horney, Herby, and all the
others in the Society who have an
‘inclination to be light fingered and
remove others possessions. Mosher.
why don’t you look under the supply
box for your T square? Talking
about looking under, what sort of a
pin was under your coat lapel, Dan.
Is she blond or brunette?

No doubt the geology big wig
would like to know who changed his
Geological Dept. sign into Theological Dept. Would Duggan know anything about that? Oh yes, what 2
pleasant surprise it was to the society to find out that you finally
passed your English. Let us know
how you did it Dugan.

Conversation overheard in Drafting Room.

“My but these windows are dirty.”

Murray F.: “You would be dirty
too if you had heard as many stories
as the windows have.”

Gentlemen, it seems quite funny to
me that the Freshmen Engineers can
be smelled, not heard. Ha, ha, that
little fun cost you boys twenty-five
cents apiece.

It seems quite odd that the posters
for the big Boilermakers’ Ball should
disappear before the day of that
noble event. After all, those bits of
cardboard are there to advertise the
dance, and anyone who would remove
them doesn’t show much advancement in their mental development
on entering the doors of this institution. There are plenty of skulls
which cannot be cracked even with a
sledge hammer. How about it Commerce? .

Let’s see everpene aE ‘the Boilermaker’s Party as it promises to
outdo all former ones in every way,
floor show and novelties included.

Current question in the drafting
room. Is Mack tutoring Olga, or
does he just hang around her desk
to gaze upon her. Anyway, it’s
funny how red he gets when her
name is mentioned.

Well gentlemen, since the bell
rang five minutes ago, and since a
little dirt must be swept under the
rug until the next cleaning, I leave
you with memory that you asked
for this little lecture.

  
        
        
        
     
       
    
           
     
       
       
       
    
      
       
      
        
     
     

       
      
        
    
           
     
     
     
      
     

        
   
      
         
  

 

PIGETTES

The Pig-sty wants Kissy Cameron
to recover plenty soon that operation, on account of because the Hall
is mighty dull without her.

 

This is most surprising, Marj.
The Millionaires’ Ball, and what, no
Lloyd?

 

List of casualties at Shirreff Hall.
Joan Ballem managed to knock
loose a knee-cap, and we hear something hapvened to Daphne’s wrist.
Those skis done it!
We saw Olga struggling with a
pair, Sunday morning.

   
  
  
   
   
  

 

Orchids to Louise’ Bishop, who
helped to make all those sailors
happy at the concert, Sunday night.
Your singing is a little bit of all
right.

 

Have you heard the latest song“Oh William, Oh William”.

 

Gennie MacMahon - likes Went
awfully well. She even goes twice a
Tell them about the cute

eek

 

 

oozing Christmas Cheer in the home

| King.

the window.

have been shot at birth. Will du- |few students h
Venom double-cross Catfish? Why! . “Ueents have ever attained. |
doesn’t somebody murder someone?

Why doesn’t Kissy Cameron get
| herent

ens) er ay aes oS
Dg) Poise sod og eeoet by mel to) dad ott
hyena pe yas “J "a

1

__DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

RUFUS RAYNE FROM RANGOON . »

‘Chapter Vulr
ns ae or Rufus Rayne

a 8. One Ice Pack.

The ee January 8rd, Sargent!
O'Hare of the local constabulary!
has been appointed to the dishonourable task of rounding up the
wayward and late-coming stewdents
from Upper Canada, Antigonish and
points west. He sits morosely at
his desk phoning various clubs and
speaks of this locale enquiring of
stray stewdes. Suddenly he grabs a
phont, dials, and asks in a pleasant
manner, “Are ye there, Toni?”
Sarge is a little Irish.

“No,. This is Toni’s wife,” chirps
a froggy male voice. “Whosat?”

“Sargent O’Hare,’ answers the
copper. |

Again the chirp, “Sargent who?”

“O’Hare! O’Hare! What’s on your
head?” bellows the irate Sargent.

“An ice-pack, Was I drunk last
night!” Anyone sending in a New
Year’s story that is worse than the
one just concluded will receive five
centimes in Argentine legal tender
or one bar of Lifebuoy soap.

The holidays are by now a long
Ww hind and so are the exams.
But o ssa lingers on. Drink|friend “Stinky” Fraser enjoyed the
two more coca colas and we will go| Christmas spirit at the Cove. It
on where we left off. Way back in| S¢e™s his friend Stubbs was boththe dark, dull, exciting days of 1939,|¢Ted by orange lights and village
when fis column got its start, the| idiots.

Filthy Fifteen had been plunged into an odiferous underground river
nks by the foul hand
ry ates Du Meanie. In fact,|Tefrain, “You'll take the high road
the whole Fifteen to a man were|@d I'll take the low road.”
floating down stream aboard Rufus|Rayne. It’s a long river and Rufus
Rayne is stil afloat, no doubt
bouyed up by Xmas Spirits. They
rounded the corner of 1940 with but
two minor mishaps: Joan Gloomytrees got her feet wet and Fretty
Barnone is still wet behind the ears.
After navigating King’s College
tunnel and Sheriff Haul basement,
the good ship Rufus Rayne was
violently thrown by a gusher, second cousin to Old Faithfull, into
King Carl’s office,

“Happy Easter Eggs,” quoth the
“T hereby suspend this Council from student activities and order
you all to be conscripted into the
ranks of the C.O.T.C. for unDalhousieth undertakings.”

Immediately Bug McGoogal, lawyer representative, gurgled in a diplomatic tone, “May it please your
highness but that is unconstitutional.”

“Ah Liberty! Ah Wilderness! Ah
Nuts!” spake King Carl and summoned Major Catfish and his cohorts who were hiding under Carl’s
desk and behind his dawg. The Cohorts very smartly formed a line,
ee ete ee eee Henry Reardon is another one of
atte tidal, clicked his “ithe few local boys who has made

hands _ together and brought his right foot; 00d at old Dalhousie. He has had
his finger in everything from the

up to a smart salute.
“Catfish, my boy, put this rabble} Wurlitzer to the meetings of the
Senate. Like Pres.

in irons,” quoth Carl.

 

 

Seon eS)

 

 

We hear Jean Burnham _hasn’t
fulfilled some of her obligations.
Bun Wilson has been slow in collecting his reward for scoring: something like a kiss a basket, and maybe another wager with Gordy Bethune. Somebody will have some fun,
won’t they, Jeanie?

Ng. /®

Why didn’t Strickland stay over
after examinations at Christmas?
oF * *

Carl Greene seems to be having
family trouble in Wolfville. Those
two friends rather complicated matters for him.

x ££ *

We wonder how our practical

* *

Pete McCreath and Marjorie MacKenzie are singing that old Scotch

~

 

Dalhousie’s «

who's who

«

 

SE SL SE

 

Barton, Henry

“Yes, yer ’ighness,”’ the Major
barked. “Men, stop staring at Aes eee a Mary’s ee
Shalli Kirk Petquick — she’s our me to Valnousie in the fa

of 1934, In his early years at Dalhousie, Henry was particularly active
with the versatile College Band, was

prisoner.” At which thought the
poor Major burst into tears.
“Does she need a 24 hour guard?”

 

Reked\ Private MacGinty. He's \a a stage hand in the major producdevil, that boy. tions of the Glee Club and was preue Med. Representative on the Medical
Does she ever Journal in 1985. Si
“ll take care of that,’ roared|*?™7™™ 1 9. Since then Henry

has turned his attention to the business management of various sports|
and to the financial side of several
publications. He was business manager of the Tennis Team in ’36 and
’387, and of the Hockey team in 1938.
He has held the same office on the|
| Pharos staff for five years and was
in the same capacity of the Medical

the Major.
away.”

The troops marched towards the
gym with the ‘prisoners in their
midst, singing, “I didn’t know what |
time it was.”

Arriving at the door of Roy’s
Shoppe they threw the Filthy Fif-|
teen down the stairs and locked the
door. Whereupon Roy, that friendly Bee Exchange in 1937. From 38 |
fellow and students’ friend, began| to °39 he was associate editor of ony
throwing buckets of muddy doffee | Same weekly as far as sport goes.
be iiaes!) tlidhen ’ wate tranipled tone has turned to the tennis
under foot as the. Filthy Fifteen | CUTS and the rifle range. He was
scrambled to artes which was ihre a & member of the Dal
posaihie. C.0.T.C, rifle team and was on the

The din and Gsigebine of coffee | CT's team in 1939. To really prove
Reactant utiles: vent the himself a versatile student Henry
RiP, Hoy gy) quivering. before ‘the accepted, this year, the full time job
Wurlitzer and the leeering face sl Poh ieee ni the a aoe |

e absence of Mr. Hiseler
duVenom appeared for a second a ‘He Surg. thas seeved.. Wad. ‘witk un-|*

Now what! “All columnists should bounded energy and success merely
setting up an envious record which.

“Take the prisoner

 

 

 

 

alpen is now in third year medicine

and hopes someday to practice in
Halifax.

 

 

bap

 

 

a4
a
Sanaa te x
We P. .
x,
¥ eg
Pe VRS
”
=
.
+e
4“
.
:
’
*
.
>
4
4

 

 

v= Me | es Pe 5 .

Ph et Fee

 

  

THEYR E

  

  
 

 

Canadas Finest VIRGINIA CIGARETTE

/
a

* PACKAGES
ww 106 and 25¢

Spigetadte te Bake @ ecod. AGB eke HERE ae Mba Le Lar ee is doing a good job chis-j like to know, “Did he fall or was he

eling on Boyd. Where’s
brotherly love?
*

* *

Is McKnight serious again? We
think he must be working through
the Directory in alphabetical order
and got as far as “J”,

ee Ts

Is Jack Reid preparing for a

week-end? He seems very jovial.

Anticipations ?

* * *

“Chub“ Hanway provided the entertainment at Norman’s Saturday
by doing the Highland Fling with a
Jack Tar and the proprietor. Maybe more than one was “tarred”!

+ * &

Dig. Lynch was “sucker dancing”
with Marjorie MacKenzie. If one
red head is incapacitated, it’s wise

to stick to relatives.

* * 8

Kay Robinson is seen with Bill
Harvey’s fraternity pin. Considering that this is Leap Year, we would

im

 

 

 

|GAUVIN & GENTZEL

Special Rates to Students
24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone B-6992

For those great occasions when
your party dress or tuxedo
must be perfect ... or merely
to keep your everyday clothes
smart and new-looking...
you'll “find Cousins’ Sanitone
cleaning beyond comparison.

Special reduced cleaning rates offered
to students. Phone Cousins at L-2323
today.

MASTER CLEANERS AND Phat te

 

 

all this |} pushed?”

* * %

Open Letter to Literary Editor
Dear Genny, — Your remarks
about four firsts in the Christmas
Exams appear to be a Public Nuisance Number One when coming
from a future Digby school-marm.
This is the road to “social unsuccess”. Sincerely,
THE PIG.

a

The little Pig resolves to say
nothing nasty about anyone during
the New Year. Love and kisses.
—Amen.

 

  

Visit Our Oyster Bar

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m,

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

 

College men, call at COLWELL’S
on Barrington Street for all your
clothing requirements,

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—

Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accessories.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

Insist on

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN

45 GRANVILLE ST. _—B-6821

What Would
You Like?

Before Christmas
money slips away;
why not invest it in
a tangible, lasting
gift.

Perhaps a College
ring, from Birks.

Henry Birks &
Sons Ltd.

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

The Students’ Headquarters

for

The latest popular song hits in
Sheet Music and Records.
Also Small Instruments.

A Complete Musical Service

 

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — Youw’ll Enjoy It!

  

QuououQqQuQquaoaoaoaoaoee eo
There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

 

Liisi

Shun. IO

456-460 BARRINGTON ST.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

  

7

é ble i JN ie ei

 
 
 
  

 

\
«
ta
A
i
>
iM

 

    
  
 
 
 
   

”

ee oe it is leap year, 1940!

  

Seen has

OTP PRP RE
Fe Ot ee ane


 

take this opportunity to wish our
eaders ( if we have any) the compliments of the season and a success
 

Getting down to business, we
are finalists for the softball honors

| this year. The title is at present

held by the Frosh who triumphed
over Medicine for the top honors
two years ago. Due to congestion
the gym, these two teams will
_ be able to meet until the eveing of January 18. A best-ofseries will be played for the
‘onshi
Elsewhere on this page, interfaculty enthusiasts will find the second half of the interfaculty basketball schedule. Games will be played
only once a week during January,
but along about February, games
will take place on both Tuesdays and
Thursdays. Efforts are being made
at present to provide meals for the
players. }

We believe that this year there
is more interest than ever in interfactulty hockey and arrangements
have been made to arrange a twosection league to be played at the
Forum. As you pucksters know,
ice is pretty expensive, and it is
hoped that every team will have a
prompt and full turnout when they
are scheduled to play. The hockey
schedule will be found elsewhere
on this page. |

In the interfaculty basketball
standing to date, the Frosh are setting a fast pace, with three wins and
no losses. However they are closely
followed by Law with five points and
King’s, a new entry to the league,
in third place with four points. It
looks like a close race for the
championship.

We watched the Tigers entry in
the Halifax City Hockey League
go through their paces against a
weak King’s team at the Forum
last Monday evening. Although
outscoring the Kingsmen by a 7-2
count, there is still plenty of room

_ for improvement. However, plenty
of practice should iron out the
flaws, and WITH A_ LITTLE
STUDENT SUPPORT the Tigers
will undoubtedly make a _ very
creditable showing.

g

fe

F

 
   

 

| YEAR'S REVOLUTION

pa To Tars 7-2,
Win On Monday

Continued from Page Oue

| Shortly before the period ended

Smith followed into the corner and
centered to Collins, standing just

| outside the crease, and George lifted

the disc into the open net. The
period ended with the score 3—1 for
Dalhousie.

The second period opened fast
with Strickland and Tufts heading
dangerous sorites which the Tigers’
defense and goalie Munro handled
ricely. Play changed ends with a
change of lines and Dickie coasted
in to dent the meshes at the 7 minute mark. Seconds later King’s
wound up their scoring on a nice
three-way — Anderson to Cole to
Merkeley—who looked good on the
shot that beat Munro.

Dal scored while King’s was shorthanded as Dickie rapped in his second score of the period and third of
the game. The remainder of the
period saw Dal pressing hard in
spite of two penalties.

The first half of the final session
produced ragged hockey that was
far from crowd-pleasing, as several
penalties marred the.game Superior
condition showed at this point as
Dal began to carry the play to the
tiring King’s players.

Webster MacDonald, Dal defenseman, made several fine rushes at
this point, but King’s continued to
clear, At the 13 minute mark Norbie Grant fired a low shot through
a maze of players and Densmore,
King’s goalie, failed to get his feet
on it.

Wiaaiee ee ioe ad ended’ Arts and Science, Engineers, and| tells us, on Friday afternoon from |
urchill Smith went in alone on a

breakaway to flick a hard high shot
into the mesh to give Dalhousie
their seventh and final score. After
this score tempers flared but no
damage resulted. The game ended
with no further scoring.

Dalhousie—Goal: Munro; defence:
W. MacDonald, M. MacDonald: centre: Dickie, Corston; wings: Thomas, Black; subs: Collins, Smith, MacDougall, Grant.

King’s—Goal: Densmore; defence:
Anderson, Tufts; centre: Martell,
Cole; wings: Strickland, Howard;
subs: Langley, Hotchkiss, Howe,
Merkeley.

Since the term began, Coach Ralston has been drilling a squad of 18
men in preparation for the league
basketball openers. If present indications are of any value, students
may be assured that Dalhousie will
have two very fine basketball teams
this year, worthy of their support.

 

Goonte———

 

are a y *. NEES Cae Tee OE = rar, cua at eae he A a itt oe

 

ae ods coed Ad
.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE January 12, 1940

| Basketball Standing
P W L

 
  
    
   

| the Manager of the Band, the Editor

 
   
  
    
   
     

 

D Pp /of the Gazette, and the President of
Freshmen .... 38 3 0 0 6|the Glee Club, and various members To The Co-Eds
ipa ott ok 8 2 © 1. 5/0f their executives. |
oe s ee eAea Gane : GIRLS’ SPORTS We invite you to visit this smart beauty
ies ; : ; ; 2 shoppe where you will receive the latest
Medicine ..... 8 1 2 0 \2|. Refreshed after (or recovered hair styles under the direction of “Marquis”.
Ehgineers 6 he Bh Boe from) their holidays, the girls are

attacking their sports with renewed
vigour. Basketball is in full swing
again, and team practices will have
to be particularly intensive from
now on. The Intercollegiate League
opens, as far as we know, on Saturday, February 3, and our first opponents will be Acadia, our archrivals.

We now have four hours a week
for our basketball—Tuesday afternoon from 4.30 to 5.30, and Thursday noon, 12 to 1, through the courtesy of the D.A.A.C. Thank you,
boys.

The freshettes are no doubt overjoyed to be returning to their P. T.
classes; but, incredible as it may
seem to some of them now, we venture to prophesy that by the time
they become jaded juniors and saddened seniors, they will regret that
their P. T. days are behind them.
And while we’re on the subject, congratulations, orchids and all that, to
Miss Wray for the very swell job

Remember, 20% Off for
the Dal-King’s Co-Eds.

Post Xmas Schedule

Here is the remainder of the interfaculty basketball schedule. During
January games will be played at 12
o’clock on Tuesdays only. During
February games will be played on
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 12 o’clock.
ALL GAMES WILL START AT
TWELVE O’CLOCK.

Jan. 16—Law vs. Kings
Medicine vs Arts & Science
Jan. 23—Frosh vs. Engineers
Commerce v Arts & Science
30—Law vs. Arts & Science
King’s vs. Frosh
1—Law vs. Medicine
Frosh vs. Commerce
6—Law vs. Engineers
Frosh vs. Arts & Science
8—Engineers vs. Medicine
Kings vs. Commerce
Feb. 18—Law vs. Kings
Commerce vs. Engineers
Feb. 15—Medicine vs. Kings

Emile .

Hairdressing
Oxford Theatre Bidg.
Marquis, Manager
Anne MacLean, Prop.
Open Every Evening

 

Following yesterday’s meeting an
enthusiastic vote of thanks was
tendered by the meeting to the
Council for their support of the conference and their sending of such a
competent delegation.

 

Jan.

In The Evening

End a pleasant evening

Feb.

 

CUD
< i /Z D

Feb.

  
  

by visiting the. .
Feb. |

  
    
       
   
 
   

New Method

Watch $ 1

Cleaning

The

   

ae

a ee ea a ith i Guaranteed 1 year
Engineers vs. Frosh she 1s doing, not only with the| fq Main Springs, $1.00 Green Lantern
Feb. 20—Medicine vs Arts & Science | freshette classes, but with the bas-| He |

LT | ketball team, and her senior classes. )

407—409 Barrington St.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest
Restaurant”

| Now that the snows of winter are
|at last with us, our attention is be-|
ing turned to such things as skiing, |
skating and all the attendant joys. |
divided into two sections, “A” and It is not without considerable inter- |
“B® Law, Medicine, and Dentistry | est, however, that hear of

composing section “A”, and Frosh, | dancing class to be held, Miss Wray |

Jewellery Store
575 Barrington St. £

\, OXFORD

Hockey Schedule

Following is the interfaculty

hockey schedule. The league is

we

 

Commerce, composing section «B”, | 3.30 to 4.30.
Winners of their respective sections |
will meet in a sudden death game | Conventions—

for the championship. Games are to (Continued from page one)

"7

be played from 6-7

 

 

pm. at the!'themselves with getting a degree
Forum. while stillignorant of the real probJan. 23—Law vs. Medicine \lems of their country.
Jan, 29—Commerce v Arts & Science | t * +
Jan. 30—Engineers vs. Frosh .

|
It was noted by ‘the reporter that |

:
png Dalhousie representative entered |

Feb. 1—Dentistry vs. Law

Feb. 5—Commerce vs. Engineers | the commission on Canada and World | |
Feb. 6—Arts & Science vs. Frosh | Affairs. Reason for this was given |
Feb. 8—Commerce vs. Frosh | by Antoft to the council meeting

Feb. 12—Medicine vs. Dentistry | Sunday @vhere he recalled that just
Feb, 13—Engineers v Arts & Science) previous to Christmas a meeting of
Feb, 15—Winner “A” vs. winner “B”| four councillors and representatives
Aintree omen of some campus organizations had
instructed the delegates to “definite
 

Socrates just smiled beneath Xanthippe’s “gas attack”

And hid himself within a screen of fragrant Picobac.

 

Reports oh: ‘ ly refrain from discussion on religi(Vontinnedt eee wo) ous and political topics and should : ;
TENNIS @ Picobac is a marvellous aid to scholarly

confine themselves to University and

student problems.” detachment.

A player shall merit a felt “D”
who has played on the tennis team
representing Dalhousie in at least
four tournaments in one season, and
who has been recommended for such
award by the D.G.A.C. The manager
and coach of tennis shall be consulted in making these awards.

If a player has been awarded
three felt “D’s” as provided in this
section she is to be recommended as
eligible for the Gold “D”.

GIRLS’ DEBATING

A Gold “D” is awarded to a member who gains a total of 15 points
and is recommended for such award

by the Manager of Debating.
Points are to be earned on the
following basis:
|
’

It tastes so good that, under its
soothing protection, such irritations as nagging
: wives (or landladies) fail to penetrate. For
Picobac is the pick of the Canadian Burley crop |

 

 

 

— always a mild, cool, sweet smoke. And its |
price is below the most Xanthippian criticism.
also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

Capitol

CONTINUOUS 1 TO 11

 

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH ~. 15¢

TODAY @ SAT. @ MON. 14-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN 60¢

=

ERROL BETTE
FLYNN @ DAVIS

a

SS gS

 

“THE PRIVATE
LIVES OF |
ELIZABETH
and ESSEX”

 

 

1. For participation in an intercollegiate plateform debate: five (5)
points.

2. For participation in an intercollegiate radio debate: two and one(2%) points.

The committee wish to acknow-;
ledge the co-operation and assistance of the President of Delta!
Gamma, the President of Sodales, |

0

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

OUGTUSAAD AONUMA TT ALE ALESHA HA ASA Re

TUES. @ WED. @ THURS.

PAUL MUNI

“WE ARE NOT ALONE”

 

 

 

 

 

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose.

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST.

   

HALIFAX, N. S.

THE BEST MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

 

 

 

 

 
