    

——" 7 a se a ae on eae i =

————s- he ¥ ;
, ; c : - “- , (Se ee eee, st = ag
ers. eee ree icine Sia i oe ee,
Mo - ~ se AE
Ace |

e ta + _™ > .
at ‘ , ‘

- oor! e : vy

remit po pls oe Tee a oars age
Alpe se OCEAN tae
MAE RES hos fbi pate src

 
  
  

NOTICE

Students’
Council Meeting, Sunday at
2.30 in Men’s
Common Room

cc eetae

   
  

   
  
 
  
    
  
   
    
     
     
    
  
    
     
 
  

 

 

 

    
 

: a?
Fy y
it “

;
nae

4

    

j Vie es
| om hs =

 

ouncil Refused Extra Power

ity ft cence SEC. M. Enjoy Prominent Student! awyers Engage NEW SECTION VOTED DOWN
* Decide Protest Weckend Camp “2° This Week 1, Geet Battle =9©=AT STUDENT FORUM

° | The Gazette learned today that | | Student government took a new lease of life yesterday in
ye say a hectic session of the City| After severe castigation of the|two prominent council members will! The Supreme Moot Court of Dal- Chemistry Theatre when students from Studley and Forrest
WS eral Rugby League, held last | Gazette reporter who had character-| not be seen around the university | housie during the past week heard turned out enmasse to adopt three amendments (one in
Tuesday evening in the Dalhousie | ized it as a “RETREAT” the S.C.M./ any more _ this year. They are|two appeals of little or no impor-| amended form) and throw out two others with a resounding

 

 

 

meet: i? ; A wee ci 7 > resterday | tance. “Nay”.
mee oi ; the City League moguls}; CAMP settled down on Saturday} Gordon Kinley, who left yesterda; | ates ; | | 2
ee erie Cir Le neiba e evening at the Seabright Hotel for a| for Winnipeg to join the R.C.A.P., | On Tuesday Their Lordships Fin- The meeting opened with Doug McKeen reading the
; ‘Protest of the Dalhousie-Wanderers | weekend of interspersed business and | and Harry Smith, who is to leave) lay, Ryan and the Gazette reporter minutes, after which President Fred Barton spoke briefly in
eS _ game played at Studley on the morn-| pleasure. Twenty-eight Daihousie | soon for Southern France. There he/ heard the appeal of Metro-Goldwyn- support of the amendments on the agenda.

ma ie of October 9. This decision|studenis, under the leadership of| will continue his studies in eee Meyer from a sete 1: SANOT OE 1 ta)
Mata et cela. a . : ‘ "e. jovi ‘incess Yousoupoff.

gives Dalhousie the City Title and; Margaret Kinney, National Secre-| enjoying the benefits of one of the | Princess 4 aay Le .
Tah the right to play Caledonia for the| tary of the Student Christian Move-! scholarships offered by the French | Junior counsel D. J. Chisholm and Delta Gamma Amendment one (Art. 4. Sec. 4}

 

.

 

_ McCurdy Cup on November 11. ment” in Canada, participated in/ government. He is to depart some| Miss Evans both congratulated the j Fy 4 Vi ~ cae oe ue . Hee sna fs
oh The meeting was called to settle hiking, folk-dancing, prolonged dis-| time either at the last of this or the judges moderately and Their Lord- 422 EF’ UPSET ; eeting hares ee hee i, ne, ae wr
~ two disputes between the two teams:/| cussion of the Christian Student’s| first of next week. As this news ships agreed that it was an ex- besa thai 1 A previous council experience,

|‘ ; ; ; ; ‘brought Gord TI S i
i, first, the protest of the Oct: 9 game,! part in the War, and worship, arrived too late to enable us to se- cellent thing to have such fine, out- g ordon 1ompson to his

      
  

    

 

 

    
 

       
     
  
  

« . . * ° Ni g y JVesidine ry - wiglant
games which were post-|- Chaired competently by the wide-| cure detailed information, this brief standing and upright men on the Mi te Joan Blackw ood presiding | feet with an amendment w idening
games woien’ ua ine Gall Delta Gamma held its first meeting | the field to persons who had served
ast Saturday and last | ly-experienced oung Secretary, the | account wili have to suffice till more | Bench. leas 10 hi

aver aay 4y-expe SOAS “ : , ha. bituiiod e yh eo Wednesday evening, October 25th.|on other student organizations.
n hour and a half| meeting, in two sessions, considered | information can be obtained. Mr. C. Hutchins, K.C., on behalf BieMad-es. 4. Ph. :
n which Tom ‘the nature of the present war, dis- ane of the defendants, argued that there fer ice eee hoes The amendment proposing jurisPe anh eet ere ee ee ; y j , :betty Sanda etty Biigh, |»: 4. “ . :
DPSB ween tc wWenanda : was no libel in the case, but seemed ay ; diction to deal with student organiGeorge seed ita, dei paper the pagent D A, f, C T : k hat he Daphne Christie and Olga Mounsey Hons i Pata
ae pposing |B, Fa. FA it oO quite alarmed when asked what he ~ |2ations brought vigorous objections
OW ard a a’ fe, ‘ i fi = : 7

h would do if he found his girl friend pi nga Coe for, the. year. a8 | e.om Windebank, Dickie and Robb,
Le ep Rally In the same predicament as the "CM", Sophomore and Freshmz» | 4. were anxious not to extend

Y Ae : = s ; . : oe = ig
| Princess, representatives respectively. powers already possessed by the
feeling that authority over

= Da rail rebar Me | ein “Death cbee a
_ Mr, W. H. McAdam, K.C., who Dr. Dixie Pelluet’s address, cen- Solons,
matters (as embodied in Art. 1; Sec.

cba at,

Watch the D.A.A.C. for develop
ments along this line some time in

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  

represented the plaintiff, exhibited, | tering around Virginia Wolfe’s book.

  
   
   
 

   
  

  

Sear" Ww the near future - As the game with on the contrary, a firm, cynical skep- | ee See eee ee vas | 2) along with the power of the purse
See) ela agit Oe ra : 3 at Ter : ; e evening. ée neec rer ici
Christianity, the camp- Caledonia is assured excitement is|titism of the strength of marital g were sufficient.

   
 

   
  

  

knots. “Slips ” he declared, “do hap- for women to press their demand i i
pen”, for individuality and free thought conte ve on different
Lord Ryan, dissenting, gave judg-|iM spite of the difficulties imposed | 8*0UR es A that it was only a

» als , . J : ints, | C25€ of adding unnecessary words

ment for the defendants, but Lord| by social and economic restraints, Woodb dissenting £ hia wt ,
Chief Justice Curry and Lord Fin-| 4nd the part that women must play omury dissenting from this view.
lay decided in favor of the plaintiff.|1™ the modern State was fully dealt

The Chief Justice (who last year | ae

argued the case for the plaintiff —| Miss Anna McKeen, honorary ; ; ,
unsuccessfully) declared his great| President of the society, announced| ‘Fimally in spite of the pleas that
pleasure in overruling the previous|the formation of a First Aid class oe eneniee oh: aoagat er vas
decision of the Supreme Moot Court. | @t the hall, which would provide an|‘larify existing powers, cautious
“I have felt,” he said, “that this) 0PPortunity for those interested to| Students supported by an overwhelmcase has cast a slur on Dalhousie| Sit for the St. John’s Ambulance |img vote Dickie’s motion to throw
justice ever since the decision of | Society examination at its conclu-| Ut the amendment.

ers perceived that it had become reaching fever pitch at the thought
8) more important than ever that the of the great struggle. If the com_%) Student — Christian Movement in ing Thursday, or possibly Friday is
“| Canada, as throughout the world,}, fne night there is talk of a bon0" | should continue its efforts in helping fire and mass pep-rally, to be folnecting, © MAY| students to see the implications lowed by a dance in the gymnasium.
Arnott had a com-| which the Christian Faith held for Different cheers will be organized
ey Oe ne: Sed book, and| themselves in the present situation. | and an attempt to build an esprit
% Las if he had started study- Three hardy specimens bathed| de corps suitable to the occasion will
Paes kindergarten. | briefly in the surf, Sunday’s good} be made. It is to be remembered
oe erarenee jon Foge Fone weather facilitated a visit to Peggy’s| that it is not definite, but the
is | Cove, sea-chanteys and  student| Gazette, with it’s grapevine sources
songs as well as selected hymns|of information, desires_to forewarn
were sung with gusto and the Sat-/the student body for the event. So

 
  
 
   
        
  
 

ak ae ge

Dickie’s Motion Passed

 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
    
 
    
    
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
   
    
  
  
 
 
   
  

   

 

 

 

 

: ; ion. Chairman Fred, with a disarmin
h was en-| be prepared! last year by a very weak Bench, ees _ ’ g
Wie co eee ee pean and it pleases me greatly to Heel Shirley Kirkpatrick, dramatics| admission that he was unlearned in
Joy: ae it to a semblance of decency.” nNanager; Reta Harrison, D.G.A.C. parliamentary procedure, next asked

| Classical Music
Co-Eds Display (To Be Offered
For ensic Skill A series of concerts will be given

Raph uae at the Ladies’ College each Thursday evening during the month of
November. Miss Blackwood, at the
request of students, has offered the
use for these of* the gramophone
and collection of records which was
presented to the Ladies’ College by
the Carnegie Corporation. This contains a varied and comprehensive
selection of the works of the classical composers; for example, all the

nid y, November 14th, has been

shes be On Friday the Smith Shield Com-/| P*eSident, and Maureen Allen, man-| support for an amendment directing
se as the date of Delta Gamma’s

mittee of Storey, McDougall and| 28° of the debating division, spoke that the Secretary-Treasurer have a
Lane presided ever the Court in the briefly concerning the forthcoming book of same on hand at Council
case of Phillips v. Brooks and en: activities of their sections. The| meetings. This was felt to be a
joyed an after-dinner feast of cigars,| Meeting closed with a full and in-| matter for the council itself to settle
apples, polar pies and all things teresting season outlined and prep- and the amendment ‘was shelved.
good to eat. Pons for the annual Community The Gold “D” amendment given:
The famous pies were supplied by | “"°St @ance well under way, below passed unanimously and the.

Mr. Poirier as a result of daring to hour having run its course, the
cross between counsel and judges.

meeting, scorning to await the presiThe rosy Nova Scotian apples were The P eople dential word, adjourned in disorder
the contribution of Chief Justice

with two amendments left unconStorey, but God only knows where Speak sidered.
they got the stogies.

Mr. A. North congratulated Their} Result of Gazette Poll:
Lordships on their ascension to the! Points Scored:

    
      
     
  

_ annual Community Chest Dance. An
informal party, with the women
ee urged to bring their favorite males
and all other gentlemen invited to
taliate in kind, this dance prom_-ises plenty of fun for all.
Jerry Naugler will play. Refresher ments will be served. Get your ticas kK :s from Inez Smith or Betty SaniI  « all, thereby contributing to your
ne wn enjoyment and to community
ow elfare. ‘
-_- Dancing 9 to 1.

 

Trials for the girl’s team, which
will debate against Mt. Allison at
the end of this month, were held on
Tuesday. Maureen Allen, the Delta
Gamma debating manager, took
charge of the meeting and Professors Bennett and Curtis were the
judges. Five girls tried out for the
team with speeches of four minutes

 

f

 

Changes made to the Student
Council Constitution were:

 

 

 

bi | each. The debators were allowed symphonies and concertos of Bee-| Bench and opened the appeal. Lord Points ere an

4 to choose their own subjects. thoven and the symphonies of| Storey noticed that one of the par-| Campus News ............. 80 Gold “D”,
a ol M t Margaret Graham’s speech was| Brahms. te in the action was named| Humour ...............__. 69 | Article 14, Sec. 1—Revision: “I¢
JO ogy ee ing “Resolved that professors should The concerts, which are arranged North” and thought he smelled a ORES be i oe ate ect yl. 54 | shall be the privilege of the Council
eS wear scarves instead of neckties.” | by a committee of students, will be- Ne sb Mr. ae explained that haha ring iat hah tent ali) st) 43° | of the Students to award a gold “I”
G a . / : ok n “Propor-| gin at 7.30 and will not extend be- € party in the case was not an in- otpenalsts (5: ey soe ye 37 to any person w x
a Wednesday afternoon the first 2 eg age : 7 yond an hour and a half, Each will|™ate of his family tree. International Affairs ...... 31 iclenity. cae i Sere rn
oe | Saf eR ae re Witte: RGAAM cdtnnaned Dalhouss consist for the most part of the force ape we a S oe regia dbase SE Mace Rite 23 Student Body to warrant such an

eo Mr. A. Barrett presiding. | with U.B.C. works of a single composer, or at| MacNeil, K.C., amused the on-look- | ocial Problems ;....,..... 17

award, and who would not be eligible

for a similar award from another
society.”

: _ ’ least of a single period. Thus the|ers with loud remarks, while both; With, twenty ballots returned
Louise Bishop’s speech was “Re- first, in the present manner of Mr.| he and Mr. Corston- were pleading. | representing views from both Forsolved that debating has a greater Toscanini, contained only works of| G.-C. Corston pleaded as smooth-|rest and Studley, the preferences
educational value than class lectures. Beethoven; chiefly the “Sixth Sym-|!ly as a_ travelling salesman, but} registered were as above.
Rowena Benson spoké on “Resolv- phony” and “Concerto No. 5.” without success. The points listed were arrived at Malcolm Award
ed that the Defence of Canada To those familiar with the music| Im giving judgment Lord -Storey| by scoring 6 for a first place, five| Att. 8, Sec. 5—Add: The Council
Regulations as proclaimed by the| of one composer this may seem too| Praised counsel’s verbosity, etc., and| for a second, four for a third, three | SM@!l appoint the chairman of this
oe are not consistent with true} much. Some, and those most to/| favoured the respondents. Lord Mc-| for a fourth, two for a fifth and one | CO™Mmittee.
emocracy.

whom they are most familiar, will; Dougall and Lord Lane, however,| each for sixth, seventh and eighth.
The three last named debaters| think that almost too mtch for the| Set @ preecedent this year by giving

were chosen by the judges for the| same program. But better too much | Judgment to the appellants.
team. They will elect their own|than too little.

Prince spoke of the scope and
jose of the club, after which the
following officers were elected:

_ Hon. President—Dr. S. H. Prince.
President—Mr. K. Tufts.
resident—Miss R. Benson.
ry—Mr. H. Cummings.

2 re meetings will be held at
30 6 nm Monday afternoons.

* Es 26

 

 

 
  
 

   

RY

$$

NOTICE

eee Class 40) will meet in Room 8 of
captain and will also suggest the That, roughly, will be the pattern | however, of its program will be/the Arts Building at noon on Tuessubject for the debate while Mt. A.| of the other programs, though no| posted before each concert. All stu- day, November 7. - All prospective
will have the choice of sides. details can yet be given. Notices, dents aré welcome.

 

 
     
   

Member at Large

Art. 4, Sec. 4,—The qualifications
for the Member at Large shall correspond with those in Art. 6, Sec. 1,

which are the qualifications of the
graduates please attend! President.

bw to be staged Thurs
  

Arts Building. | |

 

 

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
    
 
  
  
    
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
    
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
     
  

 

B-9602
B-6958
B-3148
B-0698

B-9746
B-9746
-  B-1049

 

axhed tie ‘ay canton of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
Bs ere the opinion of the student body.

- TOWARDS NEW HORIZONS

the most discouraging things to be observed in this
y slipping back to the Dark Ages, is the note of
hich young people everywhere adopt towards any
form existing conditions. it has been peinfully
- some time that the society we know has within it
factors which prevent man from achieving the full
» of happiness that he could so easily obtain. Inequality
th and opportunity, malnutrition, spir itual slavery are
a few of the more glaring social evils under which the
humanity suffers at the present time. To many this
an and right. Others will reply that the progress
es will in due time make all things well. Only when
ese fatalists and reactionaries realize that there has been)
‘litt e real progress since Adam can the forces be set moving
which will remedy many abuses of the status quo. By “real
"prog sress is meant spiritual as opposed to material progress.
Fe When material progress becomes subservient to spiritual ends
Ao nen, and then only, will evolve a society which will enable man
ee . attain. the full stature of his species.
_ Any new system which we have in mind as a goal must
apt to alleviate the evils that exist in the present society.
convenience sake they may be classified as follows: (1)
' Ber con evils, (2) evils of character, (3) evils of power.
pion” <The last ‘mentioned is the dominant evil in our present
} ms ciety. When it is remembered that the bulk of the wealth
ig in the hands of a remarkably small minority the concept of
rty becomes more or.less a myth. There are vestiges of
ical freedom, to be sure, but they are of small importance
the man whose whole existence is bound up with the struggle
a living wage. This mal-adjustment of the balance of
so is oe for much of the unhappiness in the worid
t leads to imperialistic wars, to inequality of oppor) exp citation of helpless’ people. Capitalism or rugged
m ha ; shown itself oe to remedy these
[ ation will b prove when a middle
een a rigid st ocialism which cramps
oF aa

%
tt

   
  
   
 
  
 
   
     
 
 
     
        
    
 
 
 
  

oes ‘Bring © thy zich balin; hy sweet
ee Hae "repose; 4 e he iy
sty ‘And bid our spirits ‘drink from ‘thy

  

for it. | ‘Scientific Boe ic. and at
roducts. will create abundance for all in a
ie the. midst of plenty.

ements in the educational system wi reils of | charactor referred to above. A program
hhasizes creation rather than acquisition will do in: ee ie pTatolerance will dissolve before it. ee

  

  

 
 

 
 

   

the eared ae of: the individual can
. ee is only by some such scheme that spiritual
pr snes can s be given the impetus that will assure its dominat. 01 over purely material ends.

i _The resulting mode of life, from which the grosser social

 
 

C0 y ees between the rights of the individual and the comx ney: Liberty and equality are in reality conflicting terms.
It be a life in which order and the distribution of the
om ‘ Sanita of iife are controlled by the State but one in which

_ the creative impulses of the individual are to be given full play.
_ The result will not be Utopia but it will be a far cry from the

pmemmalitics and suffering which we see on all sides today.

Mu | ¢ Mu
CANADA’S WONDER BOY
AN OPEN LETTER TO minority rights (which the Consti
ae eka [oe McCULLAGH | tution you attacked so cavalierly

eee t ; ; then preserves at least partially for
a ae Dalhousie ee a us) is even less clear. But one thing

. ov. 2, 1939.|is clarity itself: that given the op
Pies. George:

portunity to speak your mind you
nad A people’s man, you will pardon

r did not waste it. You spoke your
ae our familiarity. We tuned in on| whole mind.

ae _ your patriotic utterances on Sunday! wy. King’s cultured and scholarly
ba night and, recognizing you at once;| talks are far more likely to make

wasted no time in phoning our'| ys proud to be Canadians than

fe * [eaieg whom we knew would not yours. To picture the “lust-contort___ wish to miss such a treat. No one ed faces of Nazi hoodlums and
LT yoda, who had heard your political gangsters” may stir the spirit of
| es _ broadsides (your pardon, broad-| uncontemplative people, but it was
et Lene) of last winter. that sort of talk, loosely indulged in
during the last war that wrecked
the last peace.

“That steadfast couple, the King
and his smiling Queen”, who found
no difficulty in drawing even such
determinedly plebian persons as Mr.
Hepburn into the expanding circle
of their charm, left with us a picture of serenity and grace that fits

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

  

  

yur Hasieé to make ‘public speeches
‘ when it attempted to thwart it
nL 3 not clear; certainly this
es a pias to be even less intelli
  

  

i = nes political easectanants
ni polities, should be chosen

Continued on Page Four ~

Soni is a < ee ic hae
cal

‘Where sorrows are forgotten in

   
       
     
 
     
      
    
  

   
     
      
 
     
         
      
    
     
    
      
    
    
      
       
     
    
       
   
    
 

“| ill into the pungent atmosphere of
“| your vituperations; and “Mr. Chamberlain’s honest joy” after Munich

2 Ba ae 2 ee
‘ A at Fc .

‘The Mermaid Tavern’

“TO THE INFINITE SPIRIT
X OF EVENTIDE”.
(Reflections in the Tropics)

By RALPH C. LALTOO

Trinidad, B. W. I.

 

CHRIST IN CONCRETE

It was a disillusioned king who
who said, “There is nothing new
under the sun”, so when Pietro di

A Donato’s “Christ in Concrete” apHail, beauteous Goddess, darkly) jared to differ. from the run-ofdraped, mind “realistic” novels it created a

That cometh in a holy form,
When day with all its toils and
cares

minor sensation among the bookreading populace. It was acclaimed
. as new and strange; as stimulating
Sinks wearily behind a drapery of| ang exciting. And it is all those

richly coloured clouds! things. But we are forced to admit
With languid eyes inspired mortals lthat we do not think it the great
Behold Thy solemn birth,

: Book of our age, or even one of
Bringing a biessed potion, a balm

BM the great ones. It is not, despite
divine, enthusiastic reviewers statements,
To the Soul of Man. strikingly original, but just a rather
The siiver dew from ‘Thy overflowing | Old story freshened up. It tells the
Sahaticg story of the struggle by -ItalianFalis imo tnirsting shoots ana | Americans for bread in a great city,
drooping iiowers Bee this is done with vivid realism.
Which, opening wiue their moistened | The young author’s style is never
petals, self-conscious. The narrative moves
Fung to the world a rich and frag-| With a seemingly naive artlessness
tent smeii, . until the reader realizes that the has
And, arcing’ been deeply stirred, as by such a
space, grim study as the scene where the
Stir up the Breath of Life in ali|>uilding collapsed killing the men
working on it. And while one feels

Creation’s veins, y
Which, waking with renewed vigor,| that the gory details are perhaps
overdone, it nevertheless has 2

Awaits the visitation of a new day. a
strange and gripping power.

The book was not written to sell

round th’ illimitabie

At shy approach all trees and foui
age any idea. There is no bitterness
Stand still and silent as devoted | against any class, only a feeling that
sentinels | life cheats all but a very few. The
Betore the passing) of a renowned / author is a working man, living by
king, his daily labour. One feels that he

Who, returning from distant lands
a conqueror,

Makes ricn opiations to his God,

then passing with bowed head and
stately majesty

Ascends nis tnrone, while all around
look on

‘in awe and silence.

is Paul, the noble, self-sacrificing
young Italian, about whom the tale
is woven, who is driven to blank
\despair by the grinding, dreary life
which he leads. Paul breaks his
mother’s heart when he breaks a
Crucifix, and denies the existence of
any God.

It is a book well worth reading,
and while we may not feel that it is
great or even good literature, all but
the most calloused will be touched

 

 

So, beauteous Evening, dost ‘hou
visit isarth

Which ioving 1shee, awaits shy com
TAB.» feria _ | by such passages as the following,
Submerging ail her woes, in Tiy oe strikes the key-note of the
Sweet Vblivion! ook:

‘People, poor people. And their
faces pulled at Paul’s heart. Their
eyes and lips said We are the battered poor, poor stupid poor, we
are the maimed and crippled and
bandaged and blind workers who
cannot speak”,

cool stream

beauteous dreams.
Thou Goddess, stay beside us,
As drunken with repose our spirits
fiy — ; ,
Througn realms unknown.

By G. E.

 

| { STCCD WITH DEATH

Mark the pathways our poor spirits |

take i stood with death upon the highest
Onwards from irrevocable child-| _. SYP

hood; Of some old ghostly temple — the
How link by link the chain the mop E ie

make ‘ , Washing all the stones an icy white,
Stretching upwards to grand man- And death looked out with me across

hood. The wide lagoon of hell—filled with

Mark how the Past prepared the Bodies of the friends I had.

present day

As today prepares the Future far Grim hell that takes
away. My bitter sd what great
|

The Great Creator moves in Thee nate
me ) Must I now weep these dead? What |‘ . il '

And witnesseth the connotation of VOSUSNVEMQAOVDO0UVUUOOUOQAMUOSUEN AEE DEST TUPPER SPSS

a ee. Cause improves that. drinks this

. ; ?
Which conquering lands and stem- binod

*gibeak ada I cannot understand—I faint—
. Clutch out at death and all dissol - - =

Worked fearlessly to heights sub- eee Cae Fi th gk

Anas & Within the ice-white brilliance of the 4 ral TOUBTe rmiwe ratiy

moon.

Behold how birds and beasts and ABRAHAM A. FISCHER.
flowers droop

Their languid heads, beneath Thy
soft caress;

And myriad lights from the azure
heaven stoop

To view their faces in the water’s

 

 

     

Capitol

Continuous Performances

jes Daily from 1 to 11 p.m.
mountain tops! bow down and
silent be: TODAY @ SAT. @ MON.

All creatures bow throughout the
whole wide world!

Be silent, ye restless turbulent sea!

For the Lord passeth in the Eventide.

Continuous—1 to 11 P.M.

BETTE DAVIS
“THE OLD MAID”

With MARION HOPKINS |
GEORGE BRENT

And Thou most beautiful Spirit,
' Thou Spirit of Evening!

To Thee we lift our hearts and
souls and thoughts,

As Thou wert that which moveth
first, |

So shalt Thou onwards move TUES @ WED. @ THURS.

      
 
 
    
  
      

In one continuous harmony ALICE FAYE
In Infinite Eternity DON AMECHE
Until this form of man evolve to ey
forms unknown
And Earth in patterns new “HOLLYWOOD
Obey still newer laws — Unknown | CAVALCADE”

and Indescribable.

Be x |
“ty ie ae = se ~ : 3 fee

 

 

 

GAUVIN & GENTZEL

     
   
       

     

43 SPRING GARDEN BORD |

un QVQOOQUUGDDDSNORS00A NAVE TANS BNASUSO EATON,

 

Se

Some ah ey reir

November 3, 1939

 

“What's his cruising range?”
“ About 40 Sweet Caps.”

\m

AE)

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES 8
“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” i

BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS

MACLEOD,

Headguariers for Students’ Requirements
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

J. H. CONN W. T. MARTEL

CONN & MARTEL
BOWLING & BILLIARD ACADEMY

Co. Argyle and Buckingham Streets Halifax, N. S.

Special Rates to Students
24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD ©
Phone B-6992

SHOES

For College wear or for
the Dance are better at ||
~ WALLACE’S. ©

 eiomgi ie ae

for Lunches
Dinner |
and Confectionery
@

The Student’s

Shoe Store —

“

Wailace Bros.

“Specialists in Fitting”
Join Your Classmates!
415 BARRINGTON STREET

 

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

 

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Hastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Sc.

Courses preparatory tis: Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;
in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 

be
ar. = q
4 . as
en ee Se Lt :
  
  
 
 

 
    
  
    
   
  

Ub

A 3

  
 
   
  

Attended _ a

_ quorum. We admit we should have
_ known better, we’ve gone to others.
i Student President Barton decided

that since constitution could not be
~ amended without more voters, the

_ meeting was open for discussion of |.
any business, new, old or yet un
born. An abortive attempt was
made to discuss the council budget
(which appeared in last week’s

_ Gazette but which, at that time, we
had not seen or heard of before.)
No go.

Then the “Wurtilizer”’—resurrec
tion of the old bone of contention—
- ‘many minutes of violent debate.

Figures qu
were applicable only up to last May.

oted for Wurlitzer profits

So the earning power of the machine
‘was scrutinized on the basis of

BE wrong figures.

Next, long consideration of feasi
‘ bility of using Wurtilzer for danc
ing at Glee Club post-performance

‘frolies. _ And the old objection — not
_ satisfactory for dancing. The reply
_ but it’s cheap. Sure it’s cheap:
canned noise, worth, at a nickel a
_ evening; compared with thirty-five

dollar music. What’s more we don’t
have to pay the five. But it spoils
the party for those who dance at a
dance. God be thanked for the
_ pseudo-scientific, but eminently satis
be i‘ _ factory explanation given by modest

 

ee

  

  

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     

aN maestro McKean.

' record, about five bucks for the

Y Bet spot of the hour was the

| The Third Estate

Colourful Clothing For Men

George Collins, 3rd year Law
student—‘It depends on the man;
it’s all right if the man can wear
loud colors — Toronto is the bestdressed city in Canada, and the
campus men there wear loud colors.
College fashions start at Princeton
(see Esquire) and the trent there is
to loud colors and patterns. But—
“race-track” trends are out!”

 
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
   
    
    
   
  
  

 

G. Murray (Mike) Smith, 2nd year
Medical student — “The male birds
have brilliant plumage to attract the
females, so why not the college
boys?” (Columnists’ note: Is there
a confession of inferiority?)

 

Freda Cahan, Education student—
“T hate green hats! I think the
colors men choose are horrible —
why on earth don’t they pick reasonable colors instead of those dreadful
sickly greens? If you ask me, it
verges on the “pansy!”

 

Ticky Fennel, Science *40—‘‘Heh
heh—I don’t know—it’s a matter of
opinion. No, I don’t think man
should wear loud colors. The college
man should be conservative and set
an example to the great uneducated!” :

 

“Jafsie’” Condon, 2nd year Dental
student—‘I am a man of few words
— well, ahem — it depends on the
type—both of male and of clothing.
It is dangerous for men to wear loud
clothing because females might feel
outdone—beaten at their own game,
as it were—an thus be antagonized.
I don’t think red is very becoming
at funerals.”

 

Olga Mounsey, Engineering — “lI

| rather like to see bright colors on

oud|men in the summer-time, but not

,

\./ Jack Woodbury, ed year ‘Seafcal

* Bien violent blues and greens — at

think bright colors on
see ee -winter
= ie i ae.

 

1e | student—‘‘Men’s clothes are far too

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

| 45 GRANVILLE ST.

. ee. hardies attending the
ing Were not without interest in

; ‘inaccessible to the professional
ulties generally.’ And should a
eting, called to make changes in
‘the constitution, changes which ap
barently are not objectionable to the

the breast of the insignificant
age lecture hearer ?

Insist on

_ Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
B-6821

ORPHEUS

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY

JACKIE COOPER
PEDDIE. BARTHOLOMEW

oe SL
“TWO BRIGHT BOYS”
@

Second Feature

“RANGE WAR”

 

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them. at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

     
   
    
    
      
    
      
 
     
     
       
 

st ides—otherwise a better turnout—
: use great yearning to go to forum

oe AY And is lack
of numbers at a meeting dealing

  
 
 
       
      
   
   
  
  
       
  
    
   

. Visit Our Oyster Bar

stereotyped in line and limited in

color. -One good thing this war may

do is tear up old conventions in dress

and other fields and wake people up
— small consolation! I think men

should get more individuality into

their clothes. Many men are unfortunate in being able to express themselves only through their ties or
sox.” (Columnists’ note: the above
does not himself belong to these unfortunates, we notice.)

with campus politics a sign that college spirit is lacking ?

We are much indebted to one of
our colleagues for putting into words
a feeling we have nursed too long
in our secret heart—‘‘College spirit
is not what they think it is at
Acadia, a loud yell at a football
game!” Right! College spirits is
not a rah rah emotion but the force
that forms and maintains a university, the very basis of the university
form of life. We venture to predict
that
times and conditions, Dalhousie’s
doors will remain open to the student
for a long time yet.

 

 

 

Christmas?

Yes! It is time for selecting Christmas cards,
particularly Fraternities,
and others who wish exclusive designs.

Attractive savings are
available to those who
combine orders to obtain
the quantity prices.

Henry Birks &
Sons Ltd.

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

et Pig

a Pu ee eat Sa

ayy — bi
ey ~

in spite of disadvantageous

6s peeling sna dedi A clini ie 4k wk! an
5, ee a ee

Ly ae
,

) RUFUS RAYNE FROM RANGOON

: Nae ee, Sok

oP Seen ee

 

Page Three

 

~

 

 

CHAPTER III

RUFUS RAYNE IN TROUBLE
or
PING-PONG THE WITCH IS DEAD

High atop Citadel Hill in Halifax
there was an irridescent red glow
caused by a flickering camp-fire
around which sat Kissy Cameron and
Wilbert P. whose nose was violently
competing with the fire. Suddenly a

hook and ladder truck, manned by
Major Catfish and his Dead End
Kids, the C.O.T.C. (songs and sayings for all occasions), drifted to a
screaming stop in front of the blaze.

 

(With malice towards all.)

The author’s Hit Of The Week. .
“We're in the Jailhouse Now.” It
has come to the attention of the
Caretakers of the Sty that the readers consider this column anything
but funny and rather malicious.
Such maliciousness is not deliberate
or intentional; for anything in that
nature the Caretakers apologize. In
other words, the Sty will be cleaned.

* * *

The second year Meds. “Rabbit”,
an ex St. F. X. man has been going
around the lot bragging of the exceptional bargain he got at Simpsons. Who—When—why—

*

« &

The safest way to keep out of the
Sty is to appreciate getting into it.
This is advice to all. As an example
the name of John Tasman will not be |

used.
*

Your reporter caught sight of |
Marion Little at Norman’s late Saturday night without her usual escort.
‘Where was he and why? Following

* of

i

|
eee

the. column’s: new policy we refuse to

divulge. this information.
ey ee
Score One for Miss McKenzie. She
has parted a graduating Arts student with his Commerce Fraternity
Pin. Why was she out Saturday
night with an unmentionable. What’s
he doing about it?
& *
What two members of the Chemistry. Club left early at the last
meeting in order to visit their
Grandmothers. We are informed
that the Granddames are too young
for their roles as such and are really
good at taking shorthand.

% * *

Why does Jack Reid jump at the
sound of a bell? Is it because of his
connection with the Fire’ Chief’s
daughter? Been to Truro lately,
Jack ?

*

ae a

What is this we hear about George
Bingham?
x
Who is CROONING “When the
MOON comes over the Mountain?”
We thought stad day was over.
* me
Art Ross’ gain is Betty Bligh’s
loss. ee Little signed with the
Bruins.

ae ok

*

Open Letter to Bill Harvey:

Dear Bill: It’s too bad you didn’t
have a date Friday night, but after
all you should give a girl at least
a “couple of hours” notice that you’d
“Love To Take Her Out”. This
seems to be one time that “Jill didn’t
come tumbling after.”

SINcerely, The Authors.

* *

es Te

*

We are so cut up over having our
little pigs put under “Wraps” for the
cold weather and colder reception
that we are cutting it a little short
this week. Be careful, Folks, the
Nova Scotian climate is unsteady.

a

Our Proverb for the week — “He
who loves and runs away, lives to
love another day.” or “They laughed
when I tried to stand up in Norman’s. How did I know I was under
the table.”

 

|

rm LH

“Fall in, men” shouted Catfish,
through the inky blackness, and the
troops dived into a nearby moat
which was filled with a stinky substance.

“Tt’s fish oil,” shouted Caporal

Corky.

“It’s Roy’s Coffee,” wailed Private
MacGinty.

“T insist it’s fish oil,’ retorted

Corky, “Because here is a fish.”
“That makes two of us,” quoth
Major Catfish as he helped Corky
out of the pit.

Exasperated by this sudden turn
of events the doughty Major set
about sniffing Fizzleque’s empties,
but seeing a red bulbous glow in the
gloom, he asked, “Are you there,
Binnit ?”

“Go away,’ gurgled Kissy as she
desperately clutched a coca cola
straw.

“Hello, Baby,’ retorted Catfish
much impressed by his own brass,

és which however had the sole effect of

sending Kissy screaming towards the
Haul carrying Fizzleque and two
bottles of Alka-Seltzer.

* x *
Swing Low Sweet Chariot. U. Pie D.

The troops, late again, came out
of their mud bath and formed up
alongside the truck on top of which
sat the Major still sniffing an empty.

“Three cheers for the Major”
shouted Caporal Corky and burst
into the third stanza of ‘Awchuchonia’, while Ignatz Smitt clad in
a black and yellow stiped nightdress, crawled on all fours in front
of the troops, hoarsely croaking “U.
Pie D. U. Pie D. Three back rank
recruits typically joined in one after
the other. The Major much cheered |
by this splendid show of loyalty now
addressed the troops who stood up
to listen.

“MacGinty, why must you come to
parades on Bate asked the Major.

 

 

“They aren’t skis, they are McTwitchie’s boots,” giggled MacGinty
who was a devil to fool the Major.

“Well take them off please. I
can’t tell whether you are standing
up or laying down because I see you
in both positions quite frequently,”
and the harrassed Major broke into
a flood of tears.

“Yessir,” quoth MacGinty.

* * #

Buy Musquodobit Products

As the weird troop followed the
rugby glow of Fizzleque’s nose towards the gym, there was a brief
pause for station identification and
we take you by Reardon’s wurlitzer
control to a position adjacent to
Sherrif Haul. The pinkish beak
flashed an S.O.S. three times, blew
taps and Wilbert went out like a
light. The great door of the Haul
slowly opened and -there stood
Minna, tall and skinna with a battleaxe in her hand. In her other hand
she waved a stop-watch permanently
set at 11.32 p.m. o-clock.

“Kissy,” she screamed, “you are
late again. Why aren’t you like
Joan Gloomy-Trees and get here in
time for breakfast?”

Kissy looked frantically about for |
some moral support from Wilbert P.
her immoral escort, but he had been
turned to stone or was behind a
pillar with Silly Smith. Having
nothing better to do she fell on her
face before the mighty Minna McMean and howled to be able to go to
English 2 in the morning,

“You may go to English 2,’'|
gurgled Minna, “But don’t stay and
talk to Prof. Binnit.”

“No Minna,” wimpered Kissy,

“When will I be a senior like Joan
Gloomy-Trees ?”

“Two years after being a freshette, dolt,” roared Minna as she
waved her wooden axe aloft. “Dolt?
Dolt? by some weird chance you
aren’t the sister of the Red Shadow
of a Dolt named Rufus Rayne?”

At the mention of these magic
words a wet codfish (not to be confused with Catfish) whistled through
the half-opened door and caught
Minna full in her upper right bicuspid exclusive. Women cursed,
men screamed, and Kissy swooned
as Pandemonium broke loose.

“Who the hell let him out” shouted Rufus the arch-fiend as he raced
up South Street and did a swan dive
into the Northwest Arm.

Can Rufus Rayne swim or is
diluted alcohol lighter than water?
Who wins one fresh salted codfish,

Minna? Will the C.0.T.C. get to the
gym before the Faculty? Will...
Well read .next week’s Halifax

Herald and see for yourself.
en ee

College men, call at COLWELL’S
on Barrington Street for all your
clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

Our new stock is now complete.

C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accessories.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop

453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

 

 

 

| There’s Always a Good

Show at the CASINO

 

SEE THE

SHOW AT THE GARRICK

Big Double Bill — You'll Enjoy It!

 

 

 

Even a Railroad Spike cant take it’

 

SAYS THE RAILROAD SPIKE“IN ONE OF THE
§ TORTURE TESTS
/ WAS CRIPPLED
FOR LIFE BY
FERRIC CHLORIDE

 

GUARANTEED for LIFE *

(against everything except

We are telling students all across
Canada of the 5 devastating and devitalizing feats recently performed
by the Parker Vacumatic to prove it
will last for life. No other pen we
know has ever faced sucH torture. Yet
the Parker Vacumatic did it and
came forth in perfect working ea cas

    

‘ UAR
Pencils to

Match:
$350 To $500

Pens marked with the Blue Diamond are

everyining except loss or intentional da

handling, provid

postage, insurance and

and Pencil Sets.

Barrington Street

   
   
 
  
  
   
    
 

<rEED oo eae LIFE ¢
N

re atKer

mage, subject only to a charge of 35c for

like this Jewel of a Parker Pen

(Acio) soLuTION.” | 2

loss or Intentional damage)

ist—Filled. with Acid (strong ferric
chloride solution which ate away a railroad spike) instead
of with ink, this incredible pen wrote a
5-mile line with the
acid on a revolving
paper-covered drum
and finished in perfect working order.

 

 
 

Pens:
All 14K Gold Points—

$500 ro $1Q00

 

eT

Diaphragm proved 100
exposing it to 5,000 volts of electricity
which flashes a red light if there’s ever
a pinhole leak.

 

 
 
   
       
    

  
 
 
     
  

“ mark on th.
ARROW cli
means
Guaranteed
for Li

 

SAYS THE PARKER VACUMATIC“/ WAS FILLED
WITH THE SAMEACIO
“WROTE ALL DAY
“A S-MILE LINEAND I'M JUST AS
GOOD As EveR!"

 
    
 
 
    
 
  
 

 
 

2nd—“Bomb” Test: Parker’s Dia
phragm filler encased in an oxygen bom!
FOR WEEKS, where a single day
equals 6 months’ normal age—to prove
its long life.

3rd—“‘Electrocution”: Every Parke:

% leak-proof by

4th—“Drip Test”: Pens filled anc

hung points down for hours in frigid
temperature, then in torrid temperature.

5th—Dropped 3,000 ft. from an air
plane to prove the lovely laminated pear!
barrel and cap aré Non-Breakable.

You never saw such a pen. You neve:

owned one. A sacless pemthat holds far
more ink than ordinary rubber sac pens

—shows theink level at all times, hence

guaranteed for the life of the owner against

complete pen is returned for service.

won’t rundry without warning, in classes
or exams. So go and see it now and get
it for college and for hfe.

The Parker Fountain Pen Co., Limited,

Toronto, Ontario.

 

Come in and see our solcadia’ assertment of PARKER Pens, Pen
We welcome Dalhousie Students at all times and
invite them to make our store their Headquarters for the many things
found in an up-to-date Jewellery Store.

Thos. C. Johnson & Sons, Ltd.

The Barrington Street Jewellers

 

Halifax

 

 
; DALHOUSIE GAZETTE November 3, 1939

‘THROWN OUT

 

   

itance,” there were those who, hear|ing you last winter feared that they
would be retained only by right of
insistence if your advocations (fortunately unheeded by all but a few)

Canada’s Wonder Boy—
Continued from Page Two

is a subject left tastefully untouched

by those who desire unity among

the democratic nations. As for Can
 

 

=

  
 

- first rugby league championship in
everal years. Your columnist feels

 

i = a lare part of the credit for
| capturing the title should go to

  

Burnie Ralston, who has had

the Tigers on their tip-toes since the
opening game of the schedule. The
Tigers are now looking forward to

‘their McCurdy Cup match with

Caledonia on November 11, and if the

_ * @ape Breton team is no stronger this

-another strong aggregration

 

year than last, (and we hear from a
reliable source that they have lost
five first string men), we take a step
forward and pick the gold and black
squad to bring the McCurdy Cup to
Dalhousie: So let’s see you all out
to the big game one week from
Saturday!

Our thoughts turn to basketball,
and we offer the suggestion that
Coach Ralston will add another feature to his cap by welding together
of
hoopsters. Dalhousie has added two
stars to their roster this year in the
persons of Norm MacRitchie and
Ben Wilson. Ben was last year

_playing-coach with the Acadia Axe
men, and he should greatly bolster
the Dal line-up. In addition, almost
all of last year’s senior and intermediate hoopsters wiil answer the
call for the first practice. This should
provide a couple of strong and fast
teams for the city leagues, worthy
of carrying the gold and black
colors,

Again this year the hockey problem presents itself. In all probability,
the D.A.A.C. will not enter a team
in the Nova Scotia loop this winter,
but will concentrate on intercolle
PROTEST—

—

SOON TO arnt

Continucd from Page Our

* * *

 

Following the settlement of the)
first point, the question of the postponed games was brought to the

VaR ‘ mi el, hate we are tad our) fore. Mr. Laidlaw, not letting down

for an instant, immediately rose and |
described how on two occasions the

Dal Tigers had gone to the Reds’|

field, and that one one occasion the
gates had been locked against them.
Stepping boldly forward, he stated
that Dalhousie considered they had
taken the game by_ forfeit.

After a further half-hour’s deliberation on this point, it was decided
that the game had no. bearing on
the league standing, Dalhousie having already taken the league title.
The Tiger manager, the redoubtable Laidlaw, told the meeting ‘that
the Tigers would be only too glad
to meet the Redmen after the Cale
donia game, due to the loss on the|
expected |

part of the Wanderers’
gate last Saturday.

It was decided that an exhibition
match would be played between
Wanderers and Dalhousie, or a game
between an All-Star team and Dalhousie, sometime after the Caledonia game, providing the teams
could reach an agreement.

Those present at the meeting were
Dr. Murray Logan, president of the
league; Henry Ross, secretary; Timmie Hunter, Reg Hart, Jock Miller,
George Hamilton, Wanderers; Jim
Arnott, Navy; Dr. Kirkpatrick, Ralph
Plummer, Tom Laidlaw, Jimmy MacLean, Burnie Ralston, Don Storey,
Doug Cameron, Dalhousie; ‘Pooh’’
DeWolfe.

 

HOCKEY MEETING

—_—- —_—.

 

 

 

 

 

| participate in interfaculty sport.
a meeting held on Tuesday in the

 

 

Upon completion of the football
season, Dalhousie’s interest will turn |
_to basketball, and present indications |
_are that the Tigers will have a fast |

,and formidable squad of hoopsters |

with which to open the city league. |
Coach Ralston hopes to be able to)
start practices when football is ov er, |
and to have practices five days dur- |
ing the week.

Last year’s Tigers have not been
hard hit by graduation. Of last |
year’s seniors, Mike Smith, Alex
Hart, Art Shanehouse, Johnny ale
tin, “Clutch” McKimmie, and Babe |
eer will all be back when prac- |
tice sessions roll around. Last year’s
intermediate team of Vail, Charman,
Hutton, Lyall, and MacKenzie
also be intact.

Expected to add great defensive
power to the Tiger team are big
Norm MacRitchie, who played with
King’s Intermediates last year, and
Ben Wilson, playing-coach with the
Acadia Axemen last season. Newcomers from other colleges and highschool institutions should provide an
exceptionally strong squad for competition in the city senior and intermediate basketball leagues.

Commerce Enters

For the first time in many years, |}

will |

| week later.
}

GIRLS’ SPORT

BASKETBALL

Girls’ basketball got off to a good
start Wednesday night when twentyfive girls turned out for the first
| practice. They certainly looked as
if they were having a good time, and
Miss Wray, as usual, was doing a
good job of coaching them,

Since basketball is such a great}
‘game and is the main sport for
| girls at Dal, we hope that a lot will
| turn out for practices. There seemed
to be a lot of new people out and
that’s a good sign. If the turnout
on Wednesday was an example of
what basketball is going to be this
year, we ought to see some good |
playing, both in the intercollegiate |’
and interclass leagues.

Practices will be held regularly ||
on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Sat|urdays. We'll see you there!

 

 

 

GROUND HOCKEY
The game that was scheduled for

|last Wednesday was called off be
,cause the Edgehill team couldn’t get |

| down to Halifax. However, the Dal

ada’s “human and political liberties

which are hers by right of inher
 

 

 

| Last year’s was a lot of fun. Here’s |

hoping the games won’t have to be

should gain in influence and strength.

Efforts are being made in these
perilous days to prosecute a tragic
war with sobriety and no loss of
national dignity. The Chinese have

 

girls have been invited up to Edge-|

hill next Wednesday and the return

'game will probably be played a

 

 

In The Riedie |

the Commerce Society will this year |

Arts Building, it was definitely decided to enter the softball, basketball, and hockey leagues. Lack of
interest in interfaculty sport in pre
|vious years was due to inability to)

giate and intermediate hockey. We
take our stand on the hockey ques- tion i in conjunction with the D.A.A.C.
_ since we feel that Dalhousie’s show- situation will be definitely known

D.A.A.C. will take on the hockey) tration in Commerce this year exceeding thirty-five students, the
Millionaires feel that they will pro
| field teams because of such a small)
The question as to what stand the | registration, but with the total regis-|

©
a
okey

oy ye

2ST
rail 74
ee

letat tom
ae en ae
ay

;

 

“et it has been found necessary to com-| done in past years. season at Acadia last Saturday, when
ie plete a portion of the schedule prior the Axemen fell by a 7-6 score. This uy
rs the ee ae Last year greatly adds to Dal’s chances to |
i eé softbal ampionship was not ; climb in the loop. 3
ee tt tie Hele teverty fo the | Doi cusic Gorn | Showe |
b - holders the previous ear the Brosh, ymnasium on or about ortly after the game opened, | | New Method
Fe aes nan: Bachna + sy November 20. Those of you who saw | Myers counted a penalty kick to give | Watch $
; Wleefacults basketball. sch th ©) the bewhiskered basketeers perform ; his team a 3-0 lead. Only eee Cleaning ]
be sie bees ie scnedu c un-| last year against the Tigers will re-| later, King’s equallized the score, Guaranteed 1 year
r ae Ge ee cm to’ member what a smart aggregation ; When Forsythe. ran 50 yards for | Main Springs, $1.00
i 9 Bee yaae Gala 1 at g ae of hoopsters they proved to be. This| try. MacLeod put Acadia out al OXFORD
@ held by td. i vb ae Season they will tackle the Y.M.C.A.| front again when he counted on a |
% ee itn = rr o Peat team, and the association boys are| pass from his team mate Gray, but | A, Jewellery Store
ii vier: gnuing squad of lawyers last already practicising in order that| Bill Martell gave King’s the victory >?” Barrington St.
Ki 2p they will be able to compete with the| when he counted a pretty field- a SS
A House of David basketball ' bearded stars. from the 25-yard stripe.
_ ‘THE GRAPE See inane :
. VINE GRAPHIC eee aa ek he Goonie
$: my
ree gu | '
bar: iP : anew! cies /
aie THE ROLES

 

“
I .
hip
‘er?
ra
7 \
iat
re"
i
ie lt 5
Fei3, .
aa
Fe - ¢7¢
Le, .
I
a
vat!
- pa
> re
PUL i
aa)
TARA? ©
_ ma
F) a
‘ a
4
arti
Lah
I et
i i ta
te
~
Peas
jai
by ;
~ st
oe ¥ «
+ o> F
sg
‘Th e
Ewe
writs
a i -\
ie =.
j
t
2
A ‘
\
te
jr
o¥
Lx ‘
oy
pa"
Fr se
he Sal
4 n,
Lawes
7
:
1
bone
x
5 *
aie
: rs
.
. t

: ot hl ome i its

a
ay:
ae 2
ll ao St sa

  

“TLoshiiag: at the ; dntertaculty foot
_ Medicine and Arts and Science are
tied for first place, closely followed
by last year’s champs, the Law
squad. It is indeed a pity that such
strong organizations as the Freshmen and the Engineers should be
forced to default the majority of
their football games, due apparently

to a lack of class spirit. But when
_ the other leagues roll around we
hope to see these two in the thick of
_ the battle for. the titles.

We wonder how many of you

" noticedthe softball schedule in last

week’s Gazette. Due to congestion
in the gymnasium after Christmas,

 

 
 
 

\k

x if

ra ‘

ee a int

| eat,

* A i“

ie ine the last ‘two years does not tonight, when city officials will meet
Ey ge tify as great an expenditure of
| e | student _ funds — as senior hockey

in the Dalhousie Gymnasium to offer
suggestions for the formation of a
| league.

In all probability there will be an

slaty league standing we find that|imtermediate loop in Halifax this

winter, and efforts are being expended towards the formation of a
six team league. Probable entries
will include King,s, Dalhousie, Dartmouth, and some Suburban League
teams.

If such should be the case, Dalhousie, with much more material
a powerful squad. A new ruling has
already been passed by the D.A.A.C.
‘which forbids members of — the
Alumni to play on the hockey team,
and this will give every student in
the college a chance to try out for
the team, a thing which has not been

 

vide stiff opposition for other league
teams.

The Commerce entry in the softball league will necessitate a revision
of the softbail schedule. However,
until a new schedule is drawn up,
the schedule carried in last week’s
Gazette will be followed. Interfaculty enthusiasts are urged to keep
their eyes open for the appearance of
the revised softball schedule, and for
the basketball schedule to be published shortly.

 

KINGSMEN WIN

A fighting squad of King’s rug- |
gers handed Acadia intermediates '

 

their first defeat of the current | - a

ARE DIFFERENT
NOY :

 

   

. 7

5; Ve " ‘

cu I vi

ses a

a
|

el

  

  
  

At |

End a pleasant evening

by visiting the . .

The

The Dal team is look-|
|ing forward to this Windsor Peete

|

 

Green Lantern

 

407-409 Barrington St.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest

Restaurant”

OWN A ROYAL

The Portable with Big Machine features

 
   

 

GENEROUS ALLOWANCE ON
YOUR OLD MACHINE

SEAMAN-CROSS LTD.
B-6542 56 GRANVILLE ST. |

——$—$—

   
 

 

  

        

  

     
 
 
 

 

  

puFUS RAYNE Aa I IT

  

 

played in snow! shown us that it can be done. Please

allow Canada, a nation of rational
' beings, to keep her records clean. It
‘is too early in the war to employ
|your type of propaganda.

 

Miss Wray is holding her upper
classmen gym class on Friday mornings at 11 o’clock. There is also a
possibility that a class will be held
on Saturdays at 10 o’clock for any- |
body that would prefer it then. If |
your’re interested get in touch with
Miss Wray.

Last year this class was very in-.
teresting and enjoyable as well as'!
beneficial and there is every reason
to suppose that it will be the same
this year,

 

Yours for Humanity,
W. J. W.

 

Oe

 

TUTORING IN CHEMISTRY
An

teacher, a

experienced high school chemistry
graduate of Dalhousie, will ac
cept students for tutoring in chemistry I.

H. R. FRASER

‘L-6119 12 Bluebell Lane

 

 

 

   

Look Your Best

You can never look your best if your hair
is not right! Make sure it is right, by
making an appointment with us today.

Remember, 20% Off for
the Dal-King’s Co-Eds.

:
Emile
Hairdressing
Oxford Theatre Bldg.

Marquis, Manager
Anne MacLean, Prop.

 

 

 

 

When driving

it is always too soon |
to take a chance

LIVE AND LET =

Published in the interests
of Public Safety by

Established 1869
Head Office, Waterloo, Ont.

A double delight

FINEST ROASTED FILBERTS
JERSEY MILK CHOCOLATE

Enjoy a bar daily

Neilson’:

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose.

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST.

HALIFAX, N. §.

 
