Biel, us me
i ;

   

a
Wy rt
ape:
Fy * ) '
PA Mii,
ne
he
ik
Ui
Yee Bee ‘Last night at the Dalhousie gyma nasium the senior squad of DalhouPe sie hoopsters turned in a fine all| ti , an game to set back the famae ous Dal Grade, by a score of 45-23.
cus Le win would have given the

| Taare Ss a chance at a playoff berth
te if the Y.MLC.A. had beaten Navy,
| Mi which they were unable to do, and
go the chances of the gold and black
i Ne mane are now very slim indeed.
a! Feature of last night’s contest
mae the playing of Wilson, Hart
j and Stewart, who between them
; - compiled 85 of their team’s 45 point
ae
' The Varsity crew started out
q } strongly and by their aggressive
| tacti 8 gained an early lead which
.. they never relinquished. The team
consisted of “Babe” Stewart, Mike
Dunbrack, Al Bundy, Artie Shain- -alewo amd Alex Hart. playing up,
er “with Arch MacKenzie, Norm Macrey es and ‘Ben Wilson doing guard

   
 
    
   
  
  
   
 
  

ey

  

   

  

apt SS

% 2 ‘Mike Smith was out of the game

ay,
By
3 a wrenched knee. Clicking in
_ all departments of the game, the
college outfit showed plenty of the
i! old “pep”, as the boys call it, and

their passing was a joy to behold.

i Babe Stewart played his best
game of the season as he broke up

_ Grad raids and fed scoroing passes
te his teammates. Alex Hart had

in fast and was quick to take advantage of the breaks. Don Bauld
was the best of the Grads, but the
best man of both teams was Ben
Wilson, stellar Tiger guard. He
amassed the fine total of 16 points,

  
  
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
 
 

* _ his position he raided nicely on
_ many occasions. Ben really was rit
er epee eee ee

a ui

$300 OBJECTIVE

a _ The International Student Service
e. Te sien an effort to provide reE lief for students in danger areas in
_ Europe, will be launched on the Dal
_ campuses Monday with an objective
of $300. Lists are being compiled |
_ by key persons in the various resi
dences and societies and every stu_ dent will be canvassed for a dona‘tion. The amount contributed will
of course be up to the donor entirely, but the committee are hopeful
that their work in a cause vital to
_ students will be facilitated by co| - operation from all Dalhousians.
| '  Coprtribution boxes are being prea ‘pared by Henry Ross and circulars
oi iY and posters will be used to publicize
the project. J. C. MeCurdy has
donated the signs.
Asking that everyone do his
_ share, the committee is all set for
- fast and efficient action and an
| energetic drive for the $300 goal.
_ The immense relief that such a sum
will provide in Europe and China

ly 4

;

glow of pride oe students

also a very good night as he broke

an dwhile playing a vne game at! gruntled upon suddenly discovering

J be an ample reward and reason| penalties of war,

a

Defeat Grads 45 - 23 Desired Ort

 

ting top form last night and did
a lot to keep Dal out in front.

At the first time out in the first
time the Tigers led 10-6 and by
the end of half-time they had inereased their lead to six baskets as
the score read 22-10.

Continued on Page Four

 

C.0.T.C. Aspirants
Are Disappointed

Nearly half of the 130 candidates
for military examinations were taken by surprise this week when it
was announced from military headquarters that only 70 students would
be examined. In accordance with
government policy, only graduating
students will: be aceepted, but Major
Cattley has been able to secure assurance that at the next examination (sometime this summer) a selected list of undergraduates will
have an opportunity to display their
wares. He contemplates introducing
“refresher” courses to keep the boys
in trim meanwhile.

 

It is to be realized, however, that |

this has nothing to do with Military
this has nothing to do with Military Science credits. Had the
much mooted Spring offensive been
realized on a large scale, it is conceivable that more men would have
been needed; this may explain the
slackness of the authorities in making their decision to limit applications known. Be that as it may,
many enthusiastic Dalhousie wouldbe officers have a right to feel dis
that all their shooting has been to
no immediate avail.

fis. S.§ LAUNCH
CAMPAIGN DRIVE

No I Pass Pelee |
Will Be Published

———.

BULLETINS TO BE
POSTED

* 1 : *
Due to complications caused by
war conditions, the Halifax press

will not be able to publish the pass
results of the spring examinations.
High cost of newsprint and space
restriction are responsibble for the
above decision. The marks, however, will be mailed as usual. For
those in the city, an effort will ‘be
made to have bulletins of the results
posted on strategic positions on the
campus. It is expected that the
graduating classes will have their
marks published. This is one of the
Good news can
wait, and if its the other kind, who
wants to see them anyway ?

  

 

in In Fine : Display

:
a et tee sg tsiietmesestnstiseasteemsdeshnitlgpncinamemsdipaaniesemmans

 

BY THE SEA”

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 15, 1940

<eTtTe

 

 

No. 44

 

ee Em |

COMPOSER-ACTOR

em ee ee

 

Monroe Doctrine

he Bennett Shield Debating | |
series got away to a flying start last
Saturday as George McLeod and
Jean McDonald battled their way to
victory for the Senior Class.
Upholding the affirmative of the
proposition: Resolved “That the
United States should abandon the
Monroe Doctrine” they presented invincible arguments which vanquished
the hard working Frosh Colin Kohat
’
!
|

————— et steeenehetedhnste pater aeseetnenenenpsnnn etn oth

:

 

and Kay Martin.

George Piercey presided and/
Judges Maxwell and Bennett after a
lengthy deliberation on the pros and
cons of the matter decided that

  

eee

LINCOLN FRASER \

A.

 

“ae

 

Commerce. Officers

   

Munro Day Marks New High In Entertainment

 

President Monroe’s brain child is
obsolete. | Chosen
*The next debate, between the} Last week the Commerce Society

Sophs and Juniors is scheduled for| held its final meeting for the year
this week. The subject is: Resolved| and elected the following slate of

“That Science has merely created | officers:

the illusion of Progress”. The win- President—Frank Johnson.
ners of this debate win the honor of Vice-President—Dot McKenzie.
meeting Mr. McLeod and Miss Me-| Sec.-Treas.—George Miller.

Donald in the final debate for the
Rockmen Will Meet

Bennett Shield.

Next Tuesday night at the Daw}son Club Geology 1 will have its
innings as five embryonic Geologists
expound their pet theories to the
meeting.
Mosher have done experiments with |
models to investigate rock-bursts,
Ted Hallett has investigated silicoRalph Fraser will elucidate on
the B. R. Watson method of oredetecting and Bernie Sieniewicz who

 

Buy A Year Book

The Yearbooks are expected to
| be out in two weeks’ time. You
| can purchase the same for one

dollar down and one dollar on receipt of the book, from the following: Joan Blackwood, Inez
Smith, Henry Reardon, Roy Atwood and George Murphy.

Your Yearbook will be a lasting |
souvenir of one of the most memorable years that this university
has ever seen.

 

SIs,

will deliver his findings
| Lucretius’ Geological knowledge.
' question period will follow.

 

| ' presentations the organization
‘for some years as the best play/|lish butler so he
presented in many years, Particu-| What Penny

kept his silence.

Eugene Dowell and Paul | Nova

has delved a bit among the classics, | .
about | the
A

|good as the staid and sedate Eng-|!y created an illusion of progress”

said when interviewed | Dalhousie and St.

 

 

 

 

Comedy, Dancing and Awards
Are Main Entertainment

”

NEW COUNCIL INTRODUCED

Amid the sighs and groans of recuperating studes contemplating the weeks of cramming that lie ahead, another
Munro Day has passed into Dalhousie territory. The much expected (and extended) show and dance climaxed a huge day,
doing full justice to the founder’s day tradition begun in 1882.

Graham Murray’s xylophone solo, the Koretsky and Veniot’s rendition of their own excellent composition, Fleming MeDougall duet, Louise Bishop’s solos and the Freshette Chorus
were best received on the aesthetic side, while show director
Graham Allen’s March of Time, enacted by Gordon Waugh
and Bud McDougall; the English Music Hall imitation, “Ole in.
the Ark”, and Linky Fraser’s “Romeo and Juliet’’ done by the
Chapel Bay boys from King’s, were the main comedy attractions.

Sidinies Win Two
Drop One

On Wednesday evening in ie
Munro Room “spellbinders” Amiro |
and Gaudet proved that their
Gazette-given title is no misnomer,
when they gained the unanimous
decision of the three judges in a
scheduled debate apainst Acadia.

As leader of the Dalhousie team,
in support of the establishment of
Consumers’, Cooperatives
Scotia, Delmar Amiro
well-reasoned argument,
ing on the general history
operatives in Great. Britain

Scotia.

© The modern edition of Shakeispeare wowed the crowd completely.
The buxom coloratura portrayed by
Harold Roby and the chesty flourexuding nurse (Author Fraser)
raised no end of hilarity by their
antics. Hastings Wainwright caritured Friar Laurence with a portand pot-bellied appearance. Coming at the end of a show which began late and ran two hours overtime the farce pepped up the audienee for the dance. Dorothy Gra+ ha m’s tap dancing, the Hill Billies’
cherus, Murray Ryan’s violin, Bill
im Nova | PS howae” and Irving Siegel’s solos,
delivered aa B—(for busy) —9746 skit and a
elaborat- | | Shirreff Hall Choral effort (and we
of Co- | mean effort) rounded out the eveand | nin, 2's entertainment. Jerry Naug| ler’s hand for both
Concluding the argument for Dal- | dances.
housie W alt Gaudet proceeded to] The noon sport program saw
paint a little “dream piecture’’ Of | os adlev
what Consumers’ p

' 1a | take Forrest 8-5 in softball,
Cooperatives could | ‘ . _ .

: * ; P alumnae win 6-0 from Co-eds in
do for this province. Apparently

for

oe Je : F
hod .° |girls basketball and Forrest from
ever OadyY an rips j ; ;
at l Id b ‘ ! in PS | Studley 21-17 in boys. Badminton,
road woulc naturs roducts of | *
; e€ 411i PFoaue of i ing-pone, boxing’ and tum bling folsystem,

, | lowed, the latter being particularly
For Acadia, Mr. MacDonald show
| ; well performed.
‘ed that economic conditions in Nova |

 

 

 

 

music was on

afte?

| vacations

 

a a ar —————_—_———- —_—— | Seotia were unfavorable to the es-| _ aie = a dem 2) the new
PERFORMANCE OF “CHARLEY'S AUNT” aiistost of Cronezes ‘ona Com ant Prades Beet On
| widespre ad scale. i rcthesubre paler eh Mees, tReroS uses micro Jue
: |D.A.A.C.’s new chief Clayton HutRECEIVES GREAT OVATION | Mr. MacDonald, the philosophy of ; ; sinks toe the
life of the average Bluenoser was chins, Fred Barton SSE, Se

Charley’s Aunt as presented by|enjoyed the work on the. master-|against it, pPeUie Ine council,
the Glee Club on March 8 was con- | piece. + 8° 4 | Corston received the Munro Day
sidered by those who have seen the! Ken Archibald was particularly | “Resolved that science has mere-|Shield for Forrest es Joan
of : Blackwood was presented with the

 

Malcolm Honor Award and Yvonne
Mounsey the Pan Hellenic Award.
A highlight was the honourary gold

was the subject of a debate between

Thomas College
held

 

 

larly worthy of note was the acting |has yet to be deciphered. on Friday, March 8th, in
of Bert Perrot as Lord Fancourt- LAST TWO ACTS BEST | Chatham, N. B. ‘D's* awarded to Pete Nicholson
Babberly who is pressed into ser-| The first act was slow in pee | The attempts of the Dalhousie |42d Shirley Kirkpatrick,
vice as Charley’s Aunt from Brazil|but when it got under way there|'epresentatives, Messrs. Whallick Other awards were as follows:
where-the-nuts-come-from. The aud-|was plenty of action to keep things and North, to convince the audience Delta G a D’s: Mz | en All
lence was kept in a constant roar|moving. The cast seemed a bit un-| that, although inventions have been Ch a eth ies aoa ane
by his action with the result that|certain at first and were slightly | "merous and although man has j Bs oe a ae cae ay rae
the play Jagged considerably just|inclined to rush lines during the succeeded in making science work | ot ht a ernie epee
| from the fact that he had to be off-| gales of laughter that blew up for him, yet these things have fail- | bial ain yom on TP on :
|Stage at times. After the show he|spasmodically. The second act, in|? to increase the happiness within | DAs): pees oe; COE a M| said “I’m glad they let me come in|direct contrast to the previous Man’s own soul, were not sufficient | fhomas, J. Dickey, Mercer, Mac‘some real clothes before the end.|antics of “Charley’s Aunt,” lulled, |% offset the picture of the material | Kimmie, N. Brag sonie Botha Eee:
lI liked playing in this show a lot.’|the fault of the playwright and not | benefits of science painted by the law, HARD, D, A nderson, and
Korky Koretsky gave a fine per-|the actors. A little more volume|Chatham team. The judgés voted| (honorary) Kent Irwin.
formance as the victim of his own| would have helped. ‘The third act two to one in favor of St. Thomas.| Gazette: Joan Blackwood, D.
workings. In the first act he had|gave the feeling that there was go) Ben Cameron, R. Maitland, J. Windenot quite hit his stride. but in the|just a little too much building up| ‘St. Mary’s College, Halifax. were |bank, and J. Dickie.
second and third he came through|for the climax. The last two acts hosts to g Ralhounis Pubwag of George | Glee Club: Joan Blackwood, R.
with a really fine performance. were dominated completely by Per- Piercey and Allan Sparkes on Mon-|#@wards, G. MacDougall, Dalton,
Forbes Mountain remarked on the|/rot and soon he gained the power | day evening, March 11th. The sub. | Reynolds, Roberts and. (honorary)
good co-operation among the cast as|of “Rochester” to gain a laugh by | ject, Resolved that Halifax. <hould 1G. Hiseler.
did the rest of the participants.|merely appearing and saying some- adopt the managerial system of| Major Roper solemnized the ocMarjorie and Joan thought that a}|thing whether it was funny or not. government, was well argued from | casion fittingly with remarks about
stage career might be reece? As Prof. Bennett stated after, “The | poth sides. Dalhousie was awarded | the tradition of Founder’s Day and

but “Its not quite time to make any | audience got the idea that it was a
decision is it?”
tained silence on the matter of the
play principally because he was in
the process of removing grease|mander Joseph P. Connolly and
paint. Vernon MacQuarrie said|directed by Capt. May who stated
that he thought that eyerything|that he was well pleased with the
went off all right and that he has! performance. ©

essence of the thing.”
The play was produced by Com
 

Jack Arnell main-|man dressed up and that was the |

)

‘the band exhibited the results of a
|winter of assiduous and unrelenting
What would Dalhousie
without her band?

All in all, the Glee Club are
be congratulated, Reardon for
good year’s work and Jack Arnell
and Graham Allen for a fine show
the decision of the judges, two to
one,
be

te

*  * | practice.
Sodales announces ‘that there will

be a meeting of the society on
Thursday, March 21st, in Room 3 at
12 noon, for the purpose of electing

next year’s officers.

to
a

Oy Tet aed wit

i me Bae »

nc ol

a wes 
 

 

ed —T

 
: re ee Re nen ee ee
foo ee . ras un 4 "
a ea A Ps) a. x a ve

 
   

March 15, 1940 |

 

 
 
 

 
    
     
 
    

$1.00 will send 300 Sweet Caps
or 1 Ib. Old Virginia pipe tobacco to
Canadians serving in United Kingdom
and France only.
Address—"‘Sweet Caps”
P.Q. Box 6000, Montreal, Que.

H ’ r ; ; 7
r =F: he {f te ; oe a
“ e we PEE. oe of ORY 1
c ; , ee a sti Th ee i i
‘ rd i+? Cur ie & 9 Pe pas , airs :
b ‘ 1) tk + “te? j
bi ae Jd a x rai Lee fae a d f * . .y wot * et A tt
i Ay : ;
" Ph ee : - fra »
a cf 3 mow
i aii AP ‘ ‘
s "
Px
Paes ooh
4 :
; 4-7

Feunded 1869 — “The Oldest College Paper in America”

   
       
    
  
 
    
   
 

 
 

La Maison des Proviness de France| faces of those who are called upon
55 Boulevard Jourdan to make great sacrifices, whether it

Paris XIVE be sending a son to the lines or

The Editor Dalhousie Gazette, enduring the effects of taxation, etc.,
Dear Sir: on the standard of living. A certain
Pardon the tardiness of this letter | type that formerly thought it imbut I am being more sincere in polite to talk to oneself where there
writing now than would have been | re others present now finds himself
the case had I written you shortly | wending his way through people and

ene caprcre fa say cele ot tS The Gasette are those of the
be assumed that chy tebtimet: ths pinion of the

ie Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle St Halifax.
GAZETTE STAFF

Reet te it cannot

 

Editor: WEBSTER MACDONALD - - - - -_ B-9602 after ival—a : ; traffic muttering the words of what

4 | News Editor: JOHN WINDEBANK ~ =a = B-4538 , : ane By tiNel ah wine? pane f : bstance d . k

at ae JACKIE CAHAN - - =~ = B-3148 wasn’t accustomed to living in| im substance does not make a merry

Iie 1S a Sports Editor: D. CAMERON - - - - - - B-0698 : sone.

ap a Boe eater e baitar, TORN WHYTE Paris and would have been able to | Song

Be git Feature Editor: BOB MAITLAND “= B-1043 tell you no more than the over-work-| Nevertheless the people are alive

iM de® i ' : . .

e aeery, Por CEMEOEYE MeN ed fact that there are blackouts |to the situation and seem ready to
hg Exchange Editor: JOAN ELACKWOOD - - - B-9746. i face the future with confidence, and

Fa er ne Gone tekeaed Gs * ppeoe here every night and that everybody ; oie,

Pret ne Business Manager: INEZ SMITH ~ = B-1049 knows how to speak French. are therefore armed with a cold de- “1 ot : cares Moat awe onc ”

| ae & Asst,. Business Manager: KEN ARCHIBALD» - - B-321 I am not going to bore you with |termination to see their struggle you y song.
se or Staff Photographer: BILL TIDMARSH ; *‘Accompanied by a Swee? Cap of course.”
18 | “ Proof Editor: ROWENA BENSON - - -  - - B-974% such unimportant data on how peo-|through to what the Allies call a
eee ee ee ple strut around with gas mask and successful peace. Successful in that

flashlight. Magazines have done|the Nazi oppression will be stopped
that for you thousands of times—|—unsuccessful for both sides when

LEVIATHAN AND THE MAN

 

 
  
 
 

ie

   

the fact is that only little school
kids and the policemen carry their
masks. I prefer that my boring little chat be the subject of something
more significant and profound, interrupted frequently by greetings to
my fellow Dalhousians and Kingsmen.

 
  
 
 
 
  

In last week’s. editorial the dictatorial tendencies of the
Canadian Government and the grave menace that they entail
to our civil liberties were pointed out. This week we would like
to discuss at some length a possibility that this irresponsibility
of power involves—the possibility of conscription. This is a
question that concerns every man, and indirectly women too,

<<" tion of f enforced
ysis =

in this university. As the date of the federal election approaches, all three of the Canadian parties make repeated

not to introduce conscription of man-power, but in view
of the high-handed manner in which the Canadian war effort
has been conducted so far and the omnipotent power which the
War Measures Act and the Defence of Canada Regulation have
‘given to the central government, it looks as if the country were
heading for conscription whether it wants it or not. No one
will question for a moment the importance of such a policy
upon the life of each individual and upon the welfare of society
as a whole. Since all parties (with the exception of Social
Credit) seem equally opposed to enforced military service, at
the present moment it is not a question to be decided at the
polis, but it is more a development to be guarded against after
the party gets into power, especially if it is a coalition government formed for the express purpose of rushing through a
, Measure as unpopular as conscription is bound to be.

. The point to be made is that the Canadian war effort would
be hampered rather than assisted by such a measure. Respect

for individual liberty, expediency and past history all militate,

_ against the wisdom of such a policy.

To anyone who believes that the state exists for the
individual, rather fh oe the individual for the state, the quesary service is abhorrent. Such a policy

denies the most fundamental right of man — the right to
freedom of conscience. The liberty of the individual is crushed
if he is not allowed to act according to the dictates of his own
‘experience, and according to his own interpretation of the

  

_ rights of the question involved. The present British treatment

of conscientious objectors, such as the Quakers for example,
jis a model for this country to follow if conscription is introduced. It seems rather strange that a country fighting for its

   

Although I have never been in
Paris during peace time I feel
secure in saying that this second
world war has wrought a definite
change in the minds of all Frenchmen, and no doubt among all Europeans concerned. That fact manifests itself on the faces of so many
thousands of inhabitants that one
sees in this great centre city of
Europe. Since the fighting generation are obliged to defend what
their country now possesses, I only
see, for the most part the older
generation plus those who are
under 20 years of age and who harbour no suspicions that perhaps it
will be their turn 20 years hence.

eee ete) BARRY SMITH, can see the strain on the

To the Editor of the ee
Dear Sir:

This year McGill has been very ;™an at Dal (see that guy over there

unfortunate in the field of athletics.
She has made a clean sweep of

losses, and just about every championship trophy in the place has disappeared as ancient Roman. treasures disappeared when the barbarians looted Rome. McGill can do
very little boasting about her athletic prowess. So, like Dalhousie in
some years, she has to find something else to boast about. I’ve ex
one takes time out from heroic cen- SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

sured news to consider the sacrifice “The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”
of mankind and good-will. f

Tell the freshmen not to go stale,
because I shall be back next year.
I hope that there were no Christmas
graduations ‘among that talented
class of °48. For those whom it
may concern I may say that I am
“bien & mon aise” among the savants at the Sorbonne. Remarkable,
ain’t it! Although I hear that travel
in Europe is broadening for most
people, my waist measures as usual,
(or speaking modestly again) I may
say that it is even trimmer. Note
that, co-eds!

Do me a favour and tramp solidly
on the big feet of anyone in the
vicinity of that rich and peaceful
Dominion who even makes the
slightest effort to glorify war as
being the only real means of bringing out of one that which is noble
and fine. Good luck, health and happiness to all of you. From your
friend, HARRY SMITH.

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

Ask For

FARMERS’ ICELAND BARS
A DELICIOUS REFRESHMENT

“Taste the Difference”

the neighbors called the We Pao dikes Gt HL Gass the’ neighbors called the Police, My, My,
my. In ’37, when I was a fresh
FARMERS’ LIMITED
HALIFAX, N.S.

—the one with the grey beard—he’s
elass-mate of mine) we lifted
Discs Baby Austins onto the sidewalk. And six different tram conductors cursed with six different
vocabularies when we pulled six different trolleys off the wires.
And then: Last year there was a
lot of strong anti-Nazi talk around
ere, they tell me. Some people
got really heated up about it. Last
year the Kings boys did a little

 

  
    
 

BLAKELEY’S Winter Sports

ei amined these other claims—I’ve had| more than talk. They painted a .
rene Ge cnn are Tre, Bad, te, Histon to Bites imputache on Bruce Cochen er ee
ae $ : ‘em all year—and I’d like to put/and dragged him at the end of a for Lunches
| ae er tae Re oe thousand miles|them down here, and try to show|rope through the main streets of tines
rom the immediate conflict, the rights of habeas corpus are| you what I believe to be true—that| Halifax. They burned an effigy of Dinner

already suspended and the way to tyranny is open, as all
respect for the uniqueness of human personality become
forgotten,

The stand of the French Canadian politicians on this subject is too well known to bear repeating. It might be of interest
to note, however, that the French-Canadian university students
to a man seem to be opposed to conscription. Although they
favour voluntary support of the war effort in a military as
well as economic manner, they are unanimous in their stand
‘that obligatory conscription will annihilate French-Canadian
culture which they feel has a definite contribution to make to
western civilization. ‘Nous servirons en Amerique’ is the refrain of practically every article on the problem of involuntary
enlistment for service overseas.

Surely the sad history of the last Great War experiment
will not repeat itself. The last attempt at conscription came

Dalhousie never needs to have an

inferiority complex.

First: The men at Douglas Hall
sometimes like to think that they’re
the biggest residence hellions in
Canada. Why, the other night they
actually locked my room door, so I
had to use a skeleton key to get in
Heh, heh. Reminds me of the time
when the boys at Kings moved all
my belongings out of my room and
scattered them all over the college.
Except my bed, that is. They
couldn’t move that. It was too heavy
from the water they’d soaked it
with. Hellions? Heh!

And again: The Freshmen were

 

 
  
 
 
 
   
 

Hitler on the parade. And Linky
Fraser got up and orated on the
curse of Hitlerism. They may have
been scared of the police up here. In
Halifax, of course, the police did
interfere. They held back the
crowds.

So Dalhousie isn’t so bad after
all, is she? We grumble about scarcity of College Spirit (our parents
grumble about excess of college
spirits) ‘but we’re not alone in this.
We've got a lot of college spirit—at
times. The only trouble is, those
times don’t come often enough. But
we've got a lot of Canadian Universities licked six ways from Feb
and Confectionery

The
Green Lantern
for good foods

407-409 Barrington St.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest
Restaurant” j

Join Your Classmates!
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

Dalhousie University

close to wrecking confederation. Riots and bloodshed occurred|real naughty here. They had aj ruary.
not in Quebec alone, and even yet the seeds of discord planted| party during Initiation Week and} Or is today February? Halifax, Nova Scoti
; by conscription are still bearing bitter fruit. To what avail sang songs till so late at night that Ross Graham, 7 aA ee
was Canadian unity almost shattered? Reliable statistics have Maintains a high standard of scholarship
, it, that of the half million men who enlisted during the last| THF AMMERMAID TAVERN » » » Includes all the principal Faculties of a Unive

war only eighty-three thousand were enrolled under the Military
Service Act. In the spring of 1918 only thirty-two thousand
men had been obtained by the draft. How many saw actual
service in the trenches is not known; but this much is certain,
that all but eight per cent of those called up for service were
granted exemption in Ontario and all but two per cent in
Quebec. Towards the last, the government was using the decree
powers of the War Measures Act and disregarding the exemptions authorized by parliament. If victory had not come for
the Allies, it is not improbable that a very serious situation
would have arisen in Canada. One thing is essential, if con
military lines. In these ballots (it is rather difficult to say just

THE REWARD OF AMBITION
Each time that I reach forth my
hand to pluck
A rose fro mout of Life’s fair garden bowers,
My flesh impales upon the thorn,
And while in agony I’m torn
The petals fall in scented showers.

I still persist, believing that good

The empty shell of what was once

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern : 4

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics.
Modern Languages and History.
Qn the: erent of a biti. Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of

A robin’s song. A., M.Sc.
Of silver moonrays shivering Sourses preparatory to Professional Faculties.

LITTLE THINGS
My heart is full of little things,
Sacred to the past
I love.
Of the slow roseflush
At early dawn.
Tall pine trees heading

Course in Public Administration. q

scription is to come let it be the result of a dem i ision luck Upon the mist of a wave. :

Ieee ene a ee pen Semone ely ie a ect» bd Yee thn| Sis ato Many valuable slr, on etrance and through the cous |
io overseas to date. dusk; Of familiar giant shadows : ;
Ay, at a ; Yet when at last I pluck it_forth,| That steal with night. The Professional Faculties i
7 ‘<. suk egrets ~ toon of Dalhousie students, judging All paid in pain its costly worth,| A rose window at sunset. oie : in |
D es FO: ine Fes of pols en at this university in peace time, |There in my fist I grasp the husk, | Benediction. Leaves falling Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation. oe
“4 that Canada’s part in war should be along economic rather than From a tree. |
ef

E.L.B.

 

nn The mauve twilight that ‘ : a
¢ hy how representative they were) the prevailing sentiment seemed a rose, Ends my day. Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year; }
a to be that obligatory conscription of man-power was unwar-|Its lovely living color dropped de-| These, with little words in the B.Sc. course about $190.00 a year.
=? .. +) xanted, and that if an expeditionary force did have to be sent spite me; That people say. it

a overseas, the best results would be obtained from voluntary| Its scented sweetness all is past,|And yours, my dear,— Residence |
| be * enlistments. On principle, past history, expediency and future| The separate petals, fled aghast, | Your last words to me. Shirreff H ; : a
a = aims it seems impossible to justify the introduction of such] Leave but an empty longing to| These little things are Caref pil. Ranicenes: te women, aes |
1 By as fedutte ie: diaenrod\i'iaw tronrt, ully supervised residential facilities for mem.

 

They always will be. G. E.
 
 
      
       

 

 

 

 

PHI RHO SIGMA

The Dalhousie Chapter of the
International Medical Fraternity of
Phi Rho Sigma was founded in 1925.
One of the strongest of the fraternities’s four Canadian chapters the
Phi Rhos hold a position of importance on the Dal campus.

 
  
 

ea typical social evening among
eo We upper brackets. Two hours of
* p. - at the “Family”, followed by
a couple of strings at the bowling
alley, and finally hot dogs at the
A Becieetine (two for 10c if you're

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

oe "=.
I 
 

gen en nent ing ge re em 
} ’

Page Three

 

RUFUS RAYNE FROM RANGOON « >»

Chapter XVI
THE STRANGE CASE OF THE
TRACKLESS TRAMWAY, OR—
Where’s there’s Life there’s no Soap.

Somewhere in Nova Scotia, the
Science building is a strange place
at any time, and even at the best
of times, which is roughly six weeks
come next Whitsuntide. It is inhabited by engineers or plumbers
or boilermakers or both. All of
which hereuntoaforesaid goes to
show that Honest Gee Cee Corsette
can put up an impenetrable defence
when confronted with his own effi
 

 

 

 

 

 

Dalhousie’s « «

who's who

 

 

A Canadian University Presa
Feature
Hurray For Women!

The problem of co-education was a
very pressing one before the women
were allowed into our colleges. Now
that they have been let in, the problem is even more provocative. Has
it worked? Are there flaws? Should
it be abolished? Harvard, Princeton,
Yale; Bryn Mawr, Smith, Vasser—
do these colleges gain because they
are restricted to students of one

| Well, The Brunswickan at the Uni
versity of New Brunswick sent a
reporter out to inquire, politely,
whether the men thought we should
get rid of the women. The answer
in every case was emphatically,
“NO”. We quote some of the comments:

“Tt’s a hell of an idea...

“In a hive of bees there should
always be something sweet . .
Sugar is sweeter.

“There wouldn’t be much without
the co-eds...”

“T think it would be all right if
there were more co-eds because
there aren’t enough to go around
now...” Ah! an engineer.

“Woman is quite necessary to the
life of man...” This one is signed

»

ee ont
a

        
   
    
    
      
     
     
     
 
 
 
 
     
       
 
      
    
     
    
       
    
    
     
      

ars the know). Church on Sunday is
_ chea eap, too, eh! Charman. .

e i a |

v9 At the Sadie Hawkins dance—

_ MacInnes plus Payzant, pe shotye. gan, plus “Marryin’ Sam Is
iA ‘if “Chatterbox” doing right ey our
| ‘Nell?

* € &

We wonder who paid for the
crockery at Norman’s after the
Sadie Hawkins "farce. Was it an
excess of high “spirits”, or was Inez

_ really sore?
+ € ¢

Two prominent Dalhousie athletes
4 | hed themselves recently at
- the Nova Scotian Hotel. Do Miller
and Thomas believe a lady’s chal: . Lea! should always be accepted, or
_—s-was it the prize that attracted

a Ny them?

aly 2 ¢ &

- Conspicuous by their absence at
Pe Sadie Hawkins’ thing were
“10%” Lawson and the “Lonesome
ve ae Maybe they ran too fast.

nd ' = € «&
my What was “Kissy” Lynch doing
le “Charlie’s Aunt” all by himself?
.,  Raphere was onr redhead? Was the
bebo Murphy, or the Phi Delt

   

 
 

et
a i
te
Mary

: e e z

FE a. fae “The elusive cast of “Charlie’s

$s Anni ” provided grey hairs for near
P _». ly everyone concerned. Heard one

Poe night, “J haven’t got her, you

haven't got her, Vermin; where in
_ is she?” Where were you,

  

   

i by

Os

 

 
 
      
   
       
  
     
        
   
     
    
 
 
   
      

p oe a eg euke at obeneny s Satur
_ day nite. Did they need the practice or didn’t they care? No holdi _ ing those “Dead End Kids”. “Ned”
v i Sparks was funniest trying to keep

) them quiet.

  

1.60)

MUNRO DAY SHOW

A “J. Carstairs <Arnell Producie ta Sa was exceptionally entertainiy i ing. Orchids to the King’s boys
for ~their stellar presentation of
Romeo and Juliet. What was that
hanging out in front, “Stinky”.

Second best was John Windebank,
_ who never fails to put over his Lan
cashire dialect.

In the third shot comes versatile
Bud MaGoogal, whose singing and
“March of Time” was a highlight
of the evening.

Amongst the
- Blue Velvet Band, though rather
corny, which is suitable to the hall,
drew a few good laughs for antics.
«The mystery of the show was
how long it took Koretsky and Veinot to actually “whip” together
their “little” composition.

® t 
The Med’s Banquet had the usual
flood of good cheer. Duchfoot was
quite puzzled as to the whereabouts
of the forty gals. of rum punch,

z * *

  

 
 

“also rans” the

Conclusion

ce +
<1:
’
; ay
*
.e>
*
i
'
’

The Engineers may have 40 beers,
- But the Meds and their pals have
40 gals.

¢ © * \

:; The debaters to St. Thomas deby cided to spend Saturday in fair
. Moncton. Murray North caught
himself a female and we notice he’s
minus a ring. The other debater,
Wallick, spent a noisy evening eat
ing clams.

| 1 See
i Peter McCreath is living a very
‘i sober, upright and conscientious life
these days. The influence of the

_ blonde Harriet, no doubt.

cs ¢ *

Who is this guy, “Si”? How did

Te he get in the Sty? We think we/Sadie Hawkins party, did it go as

RY, oe Al Capp beat.

bi
ja

 

odd
Plumer two years football manager
and this year President of the D. A.
A. C., Henry Reardon, Year Book
and Wurlitzer

Martin,
the Council also plays senior basketball, Joe MacDougall and Norbert
Grant both play senior hockey for
the Tigers and Jim Squires is President of the Medical Society.

Numbered among those who have

passed through the Fraternity are
many campus leaders of the last
fifteen years. Among those who
come to mind are Drs. Jim Reed and
Harry North and Captains Eddie
Ross,
Bethune and Charlie Jones all at
present with the Royal Canadian
Medical Corps.
Day and Bud MacKenzie served as
Council Presidents and Ed “Barney”
Barnhill directed the affairs of the
D.A.A.C. with exceptional ability.

Bill Winfield, “Tubby”

In recent years Tag

Numerically strong, with an ac
tice chapter of forty, many of the
present
figures.
of the Council and Art Ormiston its
leading |
Kent Irwin and Jack Kerr play
senior football and hockey, Rod Ideson, senior football and basketball
and Henry Ross senior football,
George
and this year is Pharos Editor, Ken
Beer plays senior hockey and Hazen
Mitchell has served as President of
the Glee Club.

Phi Rhos are influential
Fred Barton is President

constitutional authority,

Murphy plays basketball

PHI CHI
In November, 1928 the Interna
tional Medical Fraternity of Phi Chi
established at Dalhousie their third
chapter in Canada.
in the field by three years the local
‘chapter quickly established
and has gone from strength to
strength in the intervening years.

Though second

itself

The Phi Chis have been exception
ally active in Medical School affairs
without neglecting general Univer|sity activities of wider scope. D. D.
{Chester Stewart and Ted Embree
both edited the Medical Journal and
‘Carl Trask served as President of

-he Medical Society. These three

Alumni and Major Sieniewicz are
all at present on active service
with the Royal Canadian Medical
Corps.

Campus leaders among the thirtyactive members are Ralph

Tzar this year
President of’ the Glee Club, Johnny
Medical gwepresentative on

 

‘say 99 |

On the whole Sadie was not kind
to the Med School, though the lads
blush to admit it. On Wednesday
morning Doug. Delong pulled a nail
off Sam Shirley’s finger-nail and
there were rumors of an argument
over a bid to the party, but it didn’t
turn out that way. It remained for
old stand-bys, MacDougall and Higgins, to pull second year’s chestnuts
out of the fire.

Of course these boys couldn’t have
done much if it had not been that
the class possesses the current rage
of the ladies, masculine Ron. Ritchie.
Topping even the glamour boy,
however, in his meteoric rise, came
Bristle-puss Roberts with two (2)
invites. First year is proud to say
that Strickland was taken by the
ladies’ prize-winner.

It is said that some lads beat the
Dogpatch girls at their own game,
keeping the girls on pins and needles
by slowing things up when a taxing
was waiting. Oh sweet revenge!
One thing we would like to know is
this: if the Little Pig attended the

Salomey or under false colours?

 

Since so many outstanding men

and women have been selected to

fulfill the various positions of responsibility at Dal in the past elections it makes for great difficulty
to choose one who is outstanding
enough to rate this column. As
athletics is the greatest of students’
interests and all athletes are heroes
of some kind it is fitting and proper
we should present at this time Clayton Hutchins, the new president of
the D.A.A.C. who has few equals
in sporting endeavor.

Law’s Hutchins was born and
brought up in Liverpool, Nova
Seotia and, after attending Queen’s
County Academy he came to King’s
College to join the class of Arts
36. The four years he was at
King’s Clayton played on their
rugby and basketball squads and
for two years was captain of the
latter. He was secretary-treasurer
of K.C.A.A.A, for two years, won
his silver K for athletics and was
awarded the Bissett Medal in 1935
for the best all-around athlete of
the college. At King’s he was active in dramatics and debating and
was president of his graduating
class in 1936.

Before coming to Dal, Clayton
took a year off to teach school and
coach athletics at King’s Collegiate.

In the fall of ’38 Mr. Hutchins
entered Law at Dal and played
rugby for the ill-fated Tigers of that
season. Clayton played an outstanding game on the three line and was
noted for his bursts of speed which
cut thru the opposing quarters.
the spring term he played intermediate basketball and was chosen
Law Representative on the D.A.A.C,
The next season saw Clayton out
with the Tiger squad playing his
usual superb game of rugby and
also out with the intermediate
melon-tossers.

Besides being an athletic star at
Dal there is nothing small
about his endeavors in provincial
and Maritime sport. He played
with the Liverpool Golf Club while
they held the South Shore championship for two years and he is
second baseman on the Liverpool
Larrupers who won the Nova Scotian baseball championship and then
took the Maritime championship in
1939.

Looking over this record one is

|
|

!

 

 

 

inclined to say “What a man” and}

then come to the conclusion that
there is a rea] athlete guiding the
destinies of the D.A.A.C. through
1940-1941.

With a big week-end coming up,
naturally _Murphy’s chagrin was

cacious personality.

As Gentleman Gee Cee in the
guise’ of a Chinese laundryman with
a bundle of dirty shirts under his
arm bearing the inscription, “Dalhousie Union Building’, waddled in
Oriental fashion through the upper
labyrinths of the Science Building,
he sang happily to himself in a
mellow, if not over-ripe baritone,
innumerable verses of “Confucius
Say”.

After taking three turns to the
left, four to the right, and another
notch in his belt, he was suddenly
enveloped by a thick yellow fog
which rendered his visibility zero
and whose acrid fumes melted the
glass from pictures and windows
with a splintering crash. At this
sudden twist of events, Honest Gee
Cee ceased to waddle and sing at
one and the same instant.

By a Waterfall

Sounds similar to the splashing
of water or the gargle of a listerine
addict floated to his ears through
the haze, when suddenly Gee Cee
was transfixed by a piercing shriek,
followed closely by the words, “It
floats”.

For a moment the laws of gravity
were suspended as the mist lifted
and Hateful Clutchins was _ seen
slowly and solemnly pushing a bathtub on roller skates down the hallway. The bathtub, like all proper
bathtubs, contained twelve inches of
water in which sat Joan Gloomytrees, fully clothed (fooled ya) and
completely oblivious of her damp
surroundings, including Gee Cee,
who had now broken out into a
ringing perspiration which echoed
clear down to the Forrest building.
Gloomytrees blinked thrice, gazed
into the murky depths and once
more muttered, “It floats ... it
floats!”

“What floats?” quoth Gee Cee,
making an attempt at being humorous.

“Ivory which

soap, you dope,

In point that Dalhousie’s Glee Club can

make a howling success of a threeact play. Bert Perrot has discredited Rufus’ sarcastic title, ‘The Glum
Clu’s” forever (we hope)and Korky
saved the day at least twice.
Saturday night brought the Med
Banquet a stag party in retaliation
for the Sadie Hawkins dance and
indicating that every dawg has his
day. The lads refused to abuse the
privilege brought to them by their
committee in the form of a “Scrap
of Paper” and resolutely kept the
party on a high plane.
Entertainment was provided by
Harry Goldberg (not to be confused
with Jack Benny) and his violin.
Al Doane brought music from a
piano, and if Bob Begg had to be
told by the Pharmacology prof.
when to applaud, it was probably
due to the high plane of the party.
Nobody had to tell Ingram when
to applaud. When the Dean spoke,
“Tonto” Ingram was right there all

through it with “God bless him!|/

Who is he? God bless him!” and
“Hi-Yo Silver!” when some thought
“Hear Hear!” might have been ap
great when he was ordered to take | propriate.

indigestible stuff for X-ray studies, |
which explains his concern as he inquired of the Physiology Prof., “Sir,
is barum sulphate soluble in organic
solvents ?”

May we congratulate the prop.
men of the Glee Club on the excellence of the scenery for “Charley’s
Aunt”. The settings were well
worth the time we waited for them
to be set up. Again congratulations. And likewise, while giving
out laurels, thank you Glee Club
executive and players in the show
for some of the best theatrical fun
in a long time;, and for proving our

Honour of the First Year Class
was defended by Mr. Fraser, and
Clyde Slade refused to be beaten.
He was alleged to be feeling rosy
all over.

An enthusiastic interne brought
Major Roper to the party. Not to
be outdone, Major Roper delivered
a campaign speech against odds, and
supplied cigars for the boys.

Crossman, once an ardent fan of |
the C.O.T.C., has suffered a sudden
reversal of his ideals. Still patriotic,
he finds it hard to hate the enemy
with any real feeling. Yes, Cherchez
La Femme, as usual!

 

gender (mustn’t say sex) only?
Earl Morrison and orchestra .

“No, because when somebody gives

us a ladies’ residence we wouldn’t
have anyone to put init...”

 

clears up a very disconcerting dillemma, I hope; ah Longfellow,”
burbled Gloomytrees as she gleefully resumed splashing Clutchins, +
who was now painfully damp. Off To Egypt

Suddenly the floor tilted to an| Ah, the Nile, and Cleopatra, and
angle of 45 degrees and the bath-| the palms, and the little Arab boys
tub began a perilous downhill trip.! shouting for baksheesh so they can

Clutchins and Corsette jumped buy hasheesh ... twilight on the
aboard just as the bathtub crashed Sphinx and picnics in the shade of
through the wall, carrying its three | the pyramids ... shades of Osiris
occupants, and hurtled towards the | and shades of evening ; . . the exotic
gym at a dizzy pace. As they pass-| east with fife and snake tmaresar ‘
ed the flagpole Corsette grabbed a/Kitchener at Khartoum and the
loose halyard and the tub changed/| British square .. | Fuzzy wuzzies,
direction for the tin god’s castle,|ghurrie whurries, and higgledy pigwhere it careened into Prof. Bin-!| gledies ... Egypt the exotie. .’,
nit’s office and deposited the three| What a build-up for an awful letin a tangled heap on the floor be-/down. Prof. Humphreys of McGill,
fore the amazed prof. Continued on Page Fow

“If you are travelling salesmen or
insurance agents I am not in the
market for peanuts,” quoth Binnit,
recovering his qualm and a fag
butt from beneath Corsette’s wellplanted foot. Whereupon every one
joined in the fifth aria of Rubenstein’s Peanut Vendor’s Swing.

Dr. Brent call surgery. It might
have helped, don’t you think?
Where is Oscar the Beaver? Will
Gloomytrees catch a cold? Who’s
afraid of the big bad wolf?

*

 

 

College men, call at COLWELL’S
on Barrington Street for all your
clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full time of
Military Clothing & Accesevries.

COLWELL BROS

LIMITED
The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. 
Insist on
Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

Halifax

 

 

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. _B-6821

Capitol
Centinuous, 1 to 11 p. m.
DALHOUSIE TRAYS

 

JAMES CAGNEY
PRISCILLA LANE

Particularly for Dalhousians — created by

Birks, the Dalhousie

tray is a wonderful ee
Fourteen inches in di- THE ROARING
ameter, fine silver TWENTIES

plate — Macdonald
Library etched in the
centre, and priced at
$5.00.

Henry Birks &
Sons Ltd.

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. 8.

TUES. ~ WED. — THURS.

JAMES STEWART
MARGARET SULLIVAN

o— in —

THE SHOP AROUND
THE CORNER

 

 

— SE a AE SS

 

cf TAUGSAEASAN AASV USHER,

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

UNCOUTH

 

 

 

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose.

Underwoed Elliott
Fisher Limited

 

165 HOLLIS ST. HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

—_—— +

 

 

 

There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

 

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — You'll Enjoy It!

 

  
  
   
  

a ee 5
i | oa

a
>

y

oe

hie My
“a
a

 

Munro Day has come and gone

once again. The afternoon ‘was
pretty well filled up with sports.
The audience was treated to one
or two events which have not been
on the program for several years,
Bie es the alumni vs students’ volley ball
i game being one of the biggest at
tractions. ( ;

 

Ar The Munro Day Shield was won
) by Forrest,
ty: basketball and the Tug o’ War, while

Lh Studley came through with a fine

iy batting rally to cop the softball

game. Features of the softball
game were Mik¢ Dunbrack’s pitch
b he ing, and Vail’s batting. It would

haye been very surprising if Forrest
had not won the basketball game,
as they had practically the whole
varsity team.

 

of Another outstanding attraction of

| the afternoon was the gymnastic
i display. Announced and directed
er. by Burnie Ralston, the performance
|} left nothing to be desired. A hardworking gym team, such as was presented to us last Tuesday, is justly
deserving of a maximum of student

support.

 

1 Outscoring the student’s team 7-5,

the alumni provided the upset of
the afternoon in the volley ball
5 game. The game featured the re
'{ —s- “Babe"" Stewart. |
- year. eh ret

¥ 7
ro - f

eae
ee uty baer
the interfaculty

    
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
    
  
  
 
   
   
 
    
 
   
  
   
 
    
 
   
  
   
 
    
   
  

 

danger from start to finish.

 

* derful),

for the second

another year.

ZETE FRAT-MEN
WIN HOCKEY
CHAMPIONSHIP

 

Munro Day marked the final clash

as the fighting Zetes downed a
powerful squad from the Phi Rho
medical fraternity. Churchill-Smith
was the spark plug for the winners
and rammed home three goals in
the last period. He teamed well
with Clyde Strickland who scored
the other tally. The Meds’ defence
of ‘Jo-Jo’ Feindel and Ken Beer
baffled the Zetes for the first period, but as the Medicos tired in the
dying stages of the game the Zete
forwards were able to find the net
more easily. Captain Cameron
Annear of the Phi Rhos livened up
the game with his rushes and heavy
body checks. Smith turned in a
stout performance in the Zete citadel, while MacKenzie, the Phi Rho
goalie at times rose to. stellar
heights as he resisted the attempts
of the opposing forwards to score.

scoring the prettiest goal for the
visitors on a solo rush from his own
blue line,

This marked the last game of a
a successful ister-fraternity series.
| "The Zetes earned their right to a
| play-off berth by eliminating the
| __ Phi Delts and 'the Sigma Chis, while
7 oe =the. Phi Rhos gained their position
wd abe defeating the Phi Khis,

. ©
eT . i: '

Sid term pho rahe
i

ports Extravaganza _
Featured on Munro Day

who captured both

turn to the game of such former
aa stars’ as Clyde Sperry, Fletcher
«Smith, Prof. George Wilson, and

 

Spel « ‘
Arts” and Science yesterday won
basketball _ title.
_ Outscoring Law 47-22, the Studley
team teok the title in two straight
games, having won the first by the|.
close score of 28-26. Yesterday,
however, Studley team really hit
seoring stride, and were never in

“Babe” Stewart, (ain’t she wontook the _ping-pong title
successive season.
Defeating Henry Reardon in three
sets, “Babe” will hold the cup for

in the interfraternity hockey series,

The final count was: 4-3, Feindel |

 

Part and parcel of Munro Day is
the afternoon sports program which
opens the festivities, and congratulations are due the committee whose
work made this year no exception.
Starting promptly at 3.00 p.m. the
various events were kept well with
tin their allotted time limit and ran

off smoothly and enjoyably. The

‘Munro Day Shield was won this

year by the Forrest campus when
they captured two of the three competitive events. Much missed, at
least from aé spectator point of
view, was the indoor hockey, which
was discontinued because of the injury hazard. Opening event of the

program was the softball game be
tween Studley and Forrest, in com
‘petition for the Shield, in which the

Studleyists wielded the willow with
telling effect as they clubbed out an
8-5 victory. Following the softball
game the women alumnae blanked
the Coeds 6-0 in basketball as they
showed the youngsters some fancy

ball-handling. Interspersed between

the next two Munro Shield events
were exhibitions of badminton, boxing, and ping-pong by the respective
leaders in these fields. The basketball game saw the men of Forrest
tie up the competition as their
strong team outplayed an aggressive Studley crew to win by a score
of 21-17.

D.G.A.C. WANTS
BADMINTON TO BE
MAJOR SPORT

D.G.A.C. met at noon yesterday
to discuss the status of girl’s badminton on the campus. Badminton
has always been a minor sport, but
it has been felt for some time that
since as many, and probably more
girls are interested in and able to

play badminton as basketball or
tennis, it should be given a position

equal to that of the major sports.
It was the unanimous opinion of the

meeting that the matter be taken

before the Student Council immediately in the hope that badminton
may be a major sport next year.

If this goes into effect any girl
who represents Dalhousie in 75 per
cent of league games in one year
and is chosen to play in the intercollegiate tournament will merit a
felt “D.

The question of felt D’s for managers was also brought up and it
was decided that since a team manager often works as hard as any
one of the players, the managers
of basketball and badminton teams
should each be given a felt D for
a year’s services.

| ART AND SCIENCE

ARE FINAL VICTORS

Handing Law a 47-22 setback,
Arts and Science were declared winners of the Dalhousie Interfaculty
Basketball Title yesterday, in a
game which featured an exhibition
of high-scoring by the winners.

Law put up little opposition during the first half, and the Artsmen
rolled up an 8-0 lead within the
first few minutes. So closely did
the Studley crew check their men
that it took Law 12 minutes to
score their first goal. In the meantime the Arts and Science team
opened out a comfortable margin,
as Harry Grant, Clarence and John
Fraser - combined nicely to collect
the majority of the points. At halftime Arts and Science had a 25-7
lead.

The second half produced much
better ball, as the teams
basket for basket for almost the
entire period. Law started off well,
as they scored 3 baskets without a
reply, but after this lapse they settled down and protected their first
period lead.

Burnie Ralston refereed.

Arts and Science— Grant 12, J.

Fraser 9, Harrison 8, C. Fraser 10,

MacKean 4, Whyte 2, Burchell 2.
Law—Storey 7, Trites 8, Piercey

7, O'Dea, Hanway, MacDonald.

matched :

fe

ito outscore their opponents, setting

|

:

 

:

:

:
|

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

-|DAL BOXING BOYS

 

BOUNCED AT ST.F.X.

 

ORCHIDS TO OUR
BERNIE FOR
YEAR’S WORK

 

This year Burnett Alexander Ralston has ably filled the post of Director of Physical Education at Dalhousie. “Burnie”, as he is known to
all, attended Halifax Academy and
St. John High School, then on to
Acadia to graduate with a B.Sc. He
also spent a year at Dalhousie. During that time his ability in every
branch of sport marked him as one
of the leading athletes in the Maritimes. His career in sport was climaxed, when in 1939 he was awarded the Clark Athletic Award as the
outstanding St. John sportsman of
the year.

The showing of the Dalhousie
football team against Caledonia in
1939 and his handling of the Tiger’s
basketball squad, illustrate that he
also has great coaching ability. It
is with pleasure that we welcome
“Burnie” to Dalhousie and wish
him every success for the future.

 

Tigers Win(Continued from Page One)

In the final half play hit a torrid
pace as the Grads strove to get
within reach of the high flying collegians. The Varsity squad were
really on, however, and continued

up 28 points, to 13 for the Grads.
The final score as the game ended
was 45-23.

Dalhousie — Bundy 3, Dunbrack,
Hart 12, MacKenzie 2, MacRitchie
4, Shainhouse 1, Stewart 7, Wilson 16.

Grads—Barry 2, Bauld 9, Crease,
MacIntosh ‘1, Piers 6, Spencer, Wilson 5.

Canadian Campus

Continued from Page *

is leading an expedition into Egypt.
I could have said so right off the bat,
but where would the interest lie?
Are you interested in Egyptian
papyri? Are you what the McGill
Daily calls an “Aegyptologist” (a
person who knows all about ancient
Aegypt) ?
is. It’s all about Papinian, one of
the secret lovers of the notorious |
Empress Theodora. Before he was
executed, ‘Papinian gave his manuseript “Principii. Legis Instrumentorum Negotiabilitorum”, and a brilliant thing it is, to this hot Theodora

 

,

Visit Our Oyster Bar

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

————
 

Well, Prof. Humphreys | —

 

The Xaverians had things pretty
much their own way as the Maritime
Intercollegiate Boxing Meet took
place at St. F. X. last Wednesday
night. Unfortunately for Dalhousie
hopes, lightweight titleholder, Tommy White was unable to defend his
crown due to a twisted ankle. Cy
Kempston was the best for the black
and gold and only lost on a close
decision in the welterweight division.

Harold Gillis had his fight all tied
up when a momentary let-up enabled
his opponent to turn the tables and
make good his escape from certain
defeat. South-paw Jerry Coven gave
a game display in the bantamweight
class but could not match the more
experienced ring-craft of his foe.

St. F. X. made practically a clean
sweep of the meet, salting away
seven of the eight possible titles.
U.N.B. captured the remaining title.

~~

kid. Now Humphreys is going to
find the manuscript which Papinian
mentions. Bon voyage! ...

x * ™

Officers and Little Officers

While Europe blazes over the Altmark incident and wags around town
say that Germany is so sore about
it she may declare war on Britain,
the Canadian campus is still resounding to the marching feet of
the C.0.T.C. Every so often the
campus newspaper will receive an
impressive-looking envelope marked,
very ominously with the letters
“O.H.M.S.” and open it to find inside
that pecular phenomenon known as
Part I Orders”. Where are Part II
Orders? And Parts III and IV? At
Varsity a military instructor was
teaching the young men all about
grid north (map north), true north,
magnetic north, and the pseudomagnetic north that results from a
faulty compass. It was a long and
detailed explanation and he went
through it slowly and painstakingly
while the student soldiers listened
and some of them learned. When it
was all over, the instructor, very red
in the face by this time, asked, ‘Are
there any questions?” One young
man stood up and said sadly, “I don’t
get it.” The class winced and duck- |

= eee

  
        
         
 
   
  

 
 

New Method
Watch $]
Cleaning
Guaranteed 1 year
Main Springs, $1.00

OXFORD

; Jewellery Store _
» 975 Barrington St. 3

ond Custom Tailored
ed as the instructor took a deep
breath and went over the whole
thing over again. Grid north...
true north ... magnetic north...
faulty compass .. . flourish . . . and
once again the long and detailed
explanation is over. The instructor,
redder in the face than ever, faces
his class and once again, “Are there
any questions?” The same young
man feels the withering gaze and is
moved to answer. “I still don’t get
it ... but that’s all right . . . I know
a fellow who can explain the whole
thing to me!”
7p * *

Engineers

Everywhere the engineers drink
forty (40) beers and everywhere

March 15, 1940

 

local campus newspaper for one is- _
sue — that is, everywhere but at —

Toronto. The Ubyesey came out with
a red engineers’ issue (And at the
same time The Manitoban came out
with a pink all-co-eds’ issue: either
U.B.C.’s engineers are sissies or I'd
hate to meet those Manitoba co-eds)
and the engineers at Queen’s speculate on the chemistry of woman in
their special issue of the Queen’s
Journal. Uses: highly ornamental. . .
acts as positive or negative catalyst
as the case may be... useful as e
tonic in the alleviation of suff ring
(sic) sickness etc .. . efficient as a
cleansing agent and as an equalizer
for the distribution of property . . .
probably the most powerful (income)

they are allowed to take out the reducing agent known ... How true!

RAE
ey,

 

risus

THE BEST MILK CH

 

 

OCOLATE MADE

 

 

 

ae
(90

   

BY

- Gorn 30 Years a oput
TAILORED-TO-MEASURE CLOTHES THAT CLICK!

 

Now Showing: The Greatest
British Woalen Line-up in

Our History

$27.50

Hond-Cut

to-Your-Meosure

fie bead Ot

TAILORS

422 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

Stores and Dealers
Everywhere

 

1
}

 
