  

   
  
  

  

aes Y A | | I, J a

 

 

   

HALIFAX, N. S.. JANUARY 19, 1940

 

Del:a Gamma Meeting

 

The first meeting in this term of!
the Delta Gamma Society was held

ramways Nose Out Tigers, 5-4

GLEE CLUB

Show Dates—

Shows starting at 8.30 Sharp.
Wed. Jan. 31—Three One-Act Plays.
Wed. Feb. 7—Three One-Act Plays.

Final Returns

Windebank
Lawson

Act Farce.

 

Arts and Science

 

March 1—“Charley’s Aunt”—Three
   

No. 11

   

 

Dal Shows Speed
In Workout

Game Tied Three ‘Times.

 

In spite of being on the wrong
side of a 5-4 score Dalhousie hockey
tigers showed plenty of stuff last

 

ah we *(In place of an Editorial) last Tuesday. There were very few
ler: | girls present, but nevertheless we
Rape) had a very good meeting and cov
| be ” = : : he ered a lot of business. Joan Black
. ae me Resolutions From The C. S. A. wood, as president, was in the chair.
he 3 ay . re ee pitas oe.
>” <, had given, as the profits from their
Pur, Confe rence annual dance, $50 to the Com
Note: Tryout for “Charley’s Aunt’s
Cast—to be held on Stage 2 o’clock
Sunday, January 2lst — Everybody

jnight as they played wide open
hockey against a team already picked to take the intermediate title in

 

About forty members of the Arts

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

__ A. MAINTENANCE OF EDUCATION, THE VERY FOUDDATION OF A DEMOCRACY: 3

1. Pursuit of federal scholarship campaign.
(a) Establishment in provinces where they do not

Federal equalization grants administered by the
provinces to primary and secondary schools.

munity Chest Fund. This was $15
more than was raised last year.
The new Constitution was read
and discussed and Article 13; on debating, was approved. The substance
of this article is that any girl who

Gee ess | yet exist. Mae? ; wants- to get her gold “D” would
Pek (b) Reaching the objective, 1,000 $500 scholarships. [pave to take part in three intercdl
legiate debates, instead of two.
It was decided that there should

; _ 3. Prevention of any form of curtailment to education. be no public speaking group this
Rei; 4. Extension of youth training program to health and | Winter and it was suggested that
at recreational centers, labour forums and vocational instead any girls who are interested
5 Sinks: might turn out at the Effective
5. Provision for extension services in rural and urban | Speaking Club.
Ree communities, training of leaders for these services. The next girls’ debate will be held
be 6. Surveys into special problems such as differences of {at Dalhousie against U.N.B. somess conditions in industrial and agricultural regions. time in February. The Delta Gamma
ss, Organization of intercollegiate debating on a

 
  
  

national basis.
_ §& Formation and extension of student ¢o-eperatives.
9. Establishment of freshmen orientation committees.
0. Curbing of an excessive degree of formality in uni
   

  
  
 

a

and lecture system, student sug
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

on between students and faculty

a
=

fof lecture room.
Special matriculation for maturer students (23 years
ind over). 7 :

TENANCE OF DEMOCRATIC RIGHTS:

iy Clear outline of Canada’s war policy.

More frequent sessions of Federal Parliament.

No extension of mandate of governments because —

of war.

- Withdrawal of restriction to democratic rights in
the Defence of Canada regulations.

gh

_-&. CONSCRIPTION:

   
   
   
 

coming along nicely.

Junior Prom

For February

 

Righteen Juniors turned out to the
Class ’41 meeting last Tuesday noon.
Despite such a noble exposition of
class interest, however, several
matters of business kept the meeting in session for a full hour.

The first matter to be dealt with
was that of debating for the Bennett Shield contest. It was decided
that such a team should be entered,
further arrangements to be made
later.

; 5. Curbing of war profiteering.
Bo >: 6. Nationalization of war profiteering industries. The treasurer reported a balance
% 7. Freedom of action for trade unions. of $120.93, thus signifying that

Class '41 is in a better financial
position than any class has been for

and Science Society met Wednesday
noon in the Chem. Theatre to consider an amendment to the constitution and discuss the well known
freshman problem. Mr. McKean and

Welcome.

Also—All students interested
taking part in a Dalhousie Concert
unit to play for the services.

in

Mr. Swanburg led off with speeches |:
affecting a rather supercilious attitude toward the lowest form (ex-|
cluding professors) of college life.
Mr. Lawson told the Frosh to)
cheer up, it was good fun and they| On Jan. 17th another very interwould have their revenge next year.| Sting and instructive meeting was
Mr. Hagen, the younger, spoke in| SUpervised by Professor Curtis. <A
words. far humbler than he had at| Short but direct talk on “The Duties
the first meeting and Mr. McIntosh | of a Chairman” was given by Prof.
presented the adroit and well-man-| Curtis. The qualities a chairman

LE SESS

 

ELECTION
|

Effective Speaking Club)

 

nered type of freshies at its best.
The executive were next empow'the executives of Commerce and
| Engineers, financing class projects
|and parties on a 1-3-10 basis, shar
| should have were pointed out— to
remain ever impartial, to have the

one-act play was reported to be| ered by the meeting to work with| Patience of Job, to be the custodian.

| of the rules of order at controversial gatherings, to be able to reason
with the majority if they are wrong.

j ing profit and loss in that propor-| to remember that, as chairman, you

| tion.
Edmund Morris, moving an
amendment calculated to admit the

frosh to full Society membership
after November 1st instead of after
Christmas, found that his freshman
|friends had deserted him and saw
his motion thrown out. Mr. Turner
was unanimously elected inter-faculty hockey manager.

 

ATTENTION, JAYWALKERS!

It has been brought to the
Gazette’s attention by the powers
that be that jaywalkers are ruining
the lawns of the University by continued shortcuts. The matter grows
more serious as the snow diminishes. Remember it’s your campus.
Don’t step on it!

NOTICE

All singers who sang at the Christmas service sponsored by S.C. M.
are asked to come to singing practice at King’s College, Sunday, at
4 o’clock.

Sw Oe

are the judge, and finally to let your
conscience always rule your decisions. .
With George Piercey as chairman
and with such brilliant speakers as

draw.

the Halifax City league. Tramways
were loaned two men for relief roles,
Ken Mitchell working on defense and
Alan Fetterly playing left wing. It
was Fetterly who, on a solo effort
flipped the deciding goal past Munro
to end the scoring for the game.

For Dalhousie, veteran George
Corston headed the scoring column
picking up two points on a goal on
an assist. Bill Thomas, George Collins and John Churchill-Smith, each
garnered a goal for the Black and
Gold squad with defenseman Marty
MacDonald having the other point
on an assist.

The game opened with both teams
raiding each others territory and

| both goalies made nice stops as they

were tested in turn. Dalhousie then
turned on the heat and drew first
blood as Churchiil-Smith accepted a
pass out from Marty MacDonald to
beat the opposing goalie to the
Continuing to press the
Tigers went two up when Collins
took a shot pass from Corston directly in front of the net and fired

Amiro of Forrest, and Sparkes of|it home. Down two goals the Tram
Studley defending the

“Comic| ways fought back desperately and
Strip”, together with Messrs. King |

Gundy Hartland scored the trolley

and French speaking on “Impres-| boys first marker as he drew Munro

sions of Dalhousie”, a fine meeting
was conducted.

The question, “Is Party Government Beneficial or Malicious?” was
the popular choice. Messrs. McAdam
and Bernett of Forrest felt to a
certain degree, as did Smith of
Studley, that “mutual distrust was
perhaps a boon to party government”.

As a college student, da’ you, Mr.
Reader, realize that some day you,
too, mighthave to give an address?
You will perhaps, due to your degree that is just around the corner,
be expected to understand not only
how to conduct a meeting but also
how to render a vote of thanks to

a speaker. Such questions you might
Continued on Page Four

 

STUDENT FORUM

NEXT TUESDAY NOON

Agenda :—

CHEM THEATRE

1. Consideration of remaining proposed amendments
to Constitution (which time did not permit the disposal of at last meeting).

2. Consideration of estimated Council of Students’
budget for current year.

8. STUDENT PROBLEMS.

The proposed amendments

are as follows:—

out of position. The period ended
with score 2-1 for Dal.

As play resumed, Tramways tied
it up on a fast solo effort. Fast

action followed with some rough
Continued ox Page Four

 

Delegates Meet
Many Nations
At Toronto

Leaving Halifax Dec. 26 and returning Jan. 3rd, Rowena Benson,
John Grant, Ian Robb and John
Windebank journeyed to Toronto
during the holidays as delegates to
the North American Conference of
the Student Christian associated
movements. At Montreal they were
joined by Ruth Haythorne, who attended unofficially as Halifax Secretary.

The revolutionary feature of the
Conference, which was held on
University of Toronto campus,
was that Hart House, traditionally the sanctum sanctoram of
the males, was opened to mixed
activities as young males and
females from all parts of the
continent and many other corners
of the world indulged in song and
feasting and dancing as well as
study and discussion at various
points of the five-day session.

The spacious and luxurious Convocation Hall held the 468 confer
  
   
   

n | : i some years. It was felt that the
Bs 1. Education concerning conscription. ar) =: class as a whole ought to benefit in
hs 2. Circulation of questionnaire on conscription in co- | some way from this money. After
ie - operation with the Canadian Youth Council and the | much discussion it was suggested
F Bloc Universitaire. that the money be used next year
= . ; to help defray expenses at the end
Bs __-D. FURTHERING OF UNDERST ANDING of the senior year, in this way being
- - BETWEEN CANADIAN PEOPLE: ~ ee most of the class.
bi | ; . e main busi f th i
sell 1. French schools wherever the population wants it. he ee
i SA c. 7 was concerning the Junior Prom
“ee 2. Teaching of French by French Canadians and of | which is to baba -Hlake the last aan’
Ps English by English Canadians. : Teun Ge oe
b ng in February. A committee of five,
i 3. Summer schools and exchange of students between | consisting of Carley Sullivan, Ade.
ake | French and ee al ak. laide Flemming, Frank Johnudi,
4. A more critical attitude of students towards the Margaret Graham and Charlie Doyle,
ye Press. : ; ‘ was elec t :
Fs 5. Study of the various ethnic groups in the Western | jonts. ear Feaitors, ‘beatae
we Provinces. } giving them a little support! With
Fae ’ plenty of money and a good comce ee ON CANADIAN UNITY AND AUTONOMY: mittee in charge all we need is your
WEAR be ‘ ius . : rt and co-operation. This is
ae 1. Safeguarding of legitimate rights of provinces. SUPPO
es i 2. Ab : of ap to the Privy Council and re- seg tae Help make it the best
ee | of ee a e Court. yet. Show, your co-operation by
3. Right of Canada to amend her Constitution. a ee eee
art mmittee will submi
a sh aaa : tentative arrangements for your api ao : proval and suggestions. Remember,
es he A basis for amalgamation wwipiose mn oe and all Juniors out on Tuesday, Jan. 30.
_  -~-—s- the ‘C.S.A., retaining the best points of each. The best of committees cannot work
‘ed ae : without co-operation!
_*Editor’s Note:— |
As a result of a decision made at a special meeting of the Students’ NOTICE,
ust Coun icil on Wednesday last, the Gazette has been forbidden to make any| The S.C.M. will hold a short worNs reference to the recent C. S. A. conference with the exception of the| ship service in King’s College Chapel

on Friday, 5.15 p.m. The service
has been planned and will be conducted by students. Everybody welcome.

bove resolutions. They are to form a basis for any judgment of the
mferemee, one way or the other, in the light of recent developments.

Article 9, Section 4— Provided that the Executive of the
Council shall be authorized to call meetings of the Student Body
or Council of Students on shorter notice if deemed necessary
by the Executive owing to exceptional circumstances.

Article 4, Section I—Revision: The Council of the Students
shall consist of the President, Vice-President and the representatives elected .. .’ |

(Clip Out For Reference)
i te

ence members, 50 of whom were
from Canadian universities, for the
plenary sessions. Knox Chapel was
used for worship, and University
College for seminar and interest
groups.

Hart House’s famed “Great Hall”,
decorated in stately wood panelling
and massive timbers, its walls em-—

Continucd on Page Four

 
    
  
 
 
   
   
   
    
   
 
   
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
   
  
 
   

, December 5 1989. | hours ate available as often as once’
oes again last aweek. For men in the front line, a
furlough of ten days every three
,|months is scheduled. The presence
of soldiers in Paris heightens considerably the emotional tension of
the city. Happy scenes of reunion
|mingle with the sad scenes of leave
i ae to produce this effect.

Next year’s military class is al|ready preparing itself for its task.
The official registration of all members of the class of 1940 (young men
.|who will reach the age of twenty
during 1940) must be finished by
December 15. Most of the students
at the University are already receiving premilitary training. ‘““Permesse”’
as it is cailed, is not compulsory by
any means, but, like the Canadian
Officers’ Training Corps in the universities at home, it enables one to
accept a commisson after having received its training.

Despite its advantage, permesse
has assumed the proportions of the
major bone of student life. It takes
place three times a week for four
hours each session. Two hours are
devoted to theory, and two hours to
practice. Practice in every ability
known to military man—target practice, bayonet practice, running for
miles interrupted by headlong falls
every 100 yards or so practice, etc.
The distinguishing work of a student
who has just finished permesse is a
violent disinterest in everything exone eternal rest.

WALTER MURPHY.

 

o | suecess ‘was brilliant, It

oot tae: at the peak
: All Paris cuca him

a)

| im Betaine ¢ to tighten its
bit at this moment with the

on Friday Which means no

si , tinned, fresh or bought the
This, of course, is in’
tio 1 to the meat restrictions al-|
B - for Monday, when

Twi “weeks ago. a new class was
led to the colors, and an older

was released. The change was
di ately noticeable in the insec | number | of uniforms that one
1 everywhere. Part of the numa eect, was made up of solBhi die m furlough — the system for
_ which has now well begun. For
ae eee tiers back of the lines and near
homes, furlough of 24 to 48

included, indicted on various charges.
The Daily Worker which is the’ principal organ of the party has not
been at ail backward in condemning
the investigation and the resolution, passed by the student body
tastes distinctly of one of those denounciations.
~The record of the Wisconsin meeting has doubtless been read by many
thinking Canadians and the time
may not be unopportune for Canadian, nation-wide student organizations to state just what relations
ljthey may have with the body in
| carrer. ave logaiey of the student

Le or of The Gazette.
Sir:

oe

    
    
  

of the A fistiean Student Union
which was gathered at the time in
ms _ Madison, Wisconsin. This body has
een. under attack in the United
: The charge
the enaon is that it
nected with the Communist | ma
ich is generally known to
led s one J a Stalin.

of

| whole is a being questioned but
when similar organizations in the
United States make this flagrant
stand for a faith at which the whole
world looks with disgust and loathing as the incarnation of Satanic
oppression, the time has come for
Canadians to make a resolute stand
against this menace and clear away
any haze that may be at present
clouding the vision of the general
public.

2c ord as. Poa. to the
re tion of un-American
which was passed while it
na motion that Russia be
its _unprovoked and

e Dies P Gavcatiention has been
g into the machinery of the
ies st Party and in the course
its _ investigations has been able
several of its leaders, Earl

Browder, who is the nominal head D, B.

No poem of mine may ever ring
To earth’s remotest end;

But I can let my verses bring
Some beauty to a friend.

nee As the ‘fury of the wind and rain
et Beat around my cabin—
- be g

- Silently.

No tale of mine may ever weave

A spell upon the mind;

But I can make each missive leave
Impressions good and kind.

_ Silently, too, I stood

es my window there, in dreadful
awe,

_ As the waves

7“ , Rushed up to my very door

And tore it from its frame. May ever right the earth:

- Silently. But in my letters I can send

— Some faith, advice, and mirth,
ae: - Silently, I waited

. = As with a great pounding
_ Those murderous waves

_ Caught me there as I stood,
_ And swept me with them
pee ee to sea.

ney, s

No article that I have penned

ree

My oratory ne’er may wake

|The languid souls of men;

But I can speak to hearts that break
To make them hope again.

No song of mine may, late or soon,
Stir throngs to laugh or weep;
But I can hum a soothing tune

By, I thought is how men iP, tine & hale eon:

a Live their lives and forget.
_ _'This—until the moment

. W en their world is
ae , away.

4 s how men die.

No role I act may ever know

The plaudits of the day;

But I can cause dear eyes to glow
By what I do or say.

My dreams of greatness, fame, and
all,

Perhaps I ne’er shall gain;

But if I do my best, though small,

My life will not be vain.

A d still as I bore on
) the waves
carried me high oa their crest;
as I had stood, and seen
eal _coming, their
| rush upon me,

Ah! Wealth is fine, and very sweet
lently, I died.

The praises glory brings;
But life can only be complete
With well-done little things!

By the Tidal | Wave of Life. | —C, 0. S.

4 a Pe
ners o3 ee gilt ae =
; ’ r ’ “4 raf ma ’ | i" y i A Len Me e
Ph ; 3 re a re aie a ram i ae =
oat Pe o had “a eae ie T 4
C7 rs a :
apne ae rise ho “ DaLae ce ETTE EY
1 U e ‘tc i
Bet i Ce : OU; GAZ
a r ar i i = MP sd it
es eid
° ATC
4 @ | wee —
ws . = jo +
=. > ‘ es ‘ Gh
et

Dear Mr. Editor:

i en ET Ee

— en

    

The following is an estimate of the financial situation of the Student
Body for the current year. It is based mainly on actual grants made to
date but, of necessity, must also contain estimates of expenditures not
yet budgeted in detail but are based on averages of other years, e.g.
Munro Day.

As indicated in another column of this. paper a student forum is
being held this coming Tuesday at which time, we hope at least a frank
discussion on this question of “where does my money go” will be had.
For years we have been hearing informal criticisms from many quarters
as to the improper way in which the student monies are disbursed; but
never, within recent years at least, has there been a really constructive
protest in this regard coupled with the suggestion as to how the situation
may be improved. So we would earnestly solicit the students, one and
all, to avail themselves of this opportunity to amend any matters of
finance that appear to require readjustment. It is only by the guidance
of expressions of this sort that the Council of Students can administer
to the complete satisfaction of thé majority and to the best advantage
of the student™body as a whole.

FRED J. BARTON,
President, Student Body.

RECEIPTS
Council of Students:

 

Student Fees (Dal) approx............0..0005: $7750 . 00
RES SPINY Sieg, PE ciaspre eden a haereit tee vas 357 .00
Student EBUGUOOR CNEG OSS 5.5’. tess ds va ais ss 44.50
Football Programme (net) ..............00000: 18.50
SAMMI DUNNO 2th DN Py ad! Lt eT etching 8.00 $ 8178.30
D. A. A. C.
Football—League games (net) ..............5. 161.00
COIOMOTR | RINGS Bo oei o-oo nib sin sinh 0's 1041.36
BAGMINCGN—GUPTOEs) oiled Cok oh sce cS wk vs tenn 190.00 1892.36
PeMMPte STAMP OCOR INCOME 5 ds ies kk ca Tiga bcc dee cous 1400.00
. $10970 . 66
EXPENDITURES
Council of Students:
Caledonia Game Celebration ......... $ 480.00
Canadian Student Assembly .......... 240.00
Amplification System ............... 190.00
SRARIMEN es MSS aR WS nih nine ale 4 Gieais ode o-nis 500.00
Gymnasium (Fee so. de. sdici dace victs. 100.00
PORE INNO EE ins ob NE oh nob bk ke ie 80.00
DUR Moy Mavehe casa .da bef anew see ie 66.00
Equipment, Supplies, etc. ............ 150.00
EPRI hon achat We vebs Mes die bas Sieg 40.00
Student Newspapers ................ 35.00
EER Liou ce les Ae iaircres si gsdh cig! 'o'x dg dhe 35.00
CMLL RIOMOE a clpsisk k's i b.8 ine baw en 148 .40
MRNA Got Pik el abs ord ht Bt aa Gee vs 50.00
PRSMUTAAM CPANEL bods Wisk vis cele panes 26.00
PRM NOMRS Dy SP AS ge iil a 6 ag Sb Sacked aie a.n4 50.00
Gl ORG, SII, BEC, ss os adic aves 00 115.00
MOM Pe 2 hig ew 0a AS osu 210.00 $2550.40
Gazette: Total Grant ..... Beetle es eo ik yee 1750.00
Sodales: Wotar Grant ys hk Co ikea cite tea! ,.258585
Glee Club: Total Grant ........ BIBS eae wag fs 750.00
Band: Total Grant ........ ad ithe ctnons siaie $ 170 .00
D. A. A. C.:
EMMRRENIE EUS co RTL Se rei ae Tak ae 2 $ 600.00
Football—regular ................05. 1483 .00
WMS OGMNA GE oA w:yin soap ld dm. va Fr. 458.00
Eee Re Ce lait be cnc teas ws wiittee 2s 60.00
TEN 81 AR Se Se dad a a 528.00
MINN TE S RENi Wye WTEL | oka onc tba a aktibiols 168.00
ie URIS ISAS A le eR ee 60.00
aR RNR ee oil Way dinar le war's! Wald) o¢ 50.00
DR RERMIAIE EAs 0's hala hv sareo, acei p Guia isd vb be 25.00
ME ILM Sahl ooo eh pide cals, 75.00
OEIC 5 w/c ola ip. a hos 5, sha OG os 212.00
Rs ances Aes ah ce kya el cone ois 593.60
Ree SO ale inte Suis tins as Seay aria we: 475.00
Field Account (average) ............. 500.00 $4829.60
D. G. A. C.:
MRM MN Paar crs fk VS ax hi ede Mel: 59.70
POORER ire at wilt F084 S6 <'s'6 ke: ko 6 ede vege 50.00
eA iN ity Sib digs a boos 10.00
TEOMROUDENE ies eles ceaciwdee ouce\ecd evs 381.00
WAMRINE S Sop ait goon csi dla hee, 5.00
TAPE STLOGMOU, 35 Ss Sick 5 on Soc 'e vw'e's 39.50 545.20 10834.05
BRUT LISOMNON Ts etre re tae ieee codec n cae. $ 1386.61
_ It should be noted that additional liabilities may be incurred in connection with hospital and medical expense, playoff games, awards and
incidentals. Naturally, these depend on future developments and cannot
be easily anticipated.

(Sgd.) M. M. RANKIN,
Jan. 15/40. Biivatane Paden

SSS ss sss sss

the Minnesota Lutheran Students dead
Association, was noticed by “hither| Who never to himself has said,
yon” in the Varsity, an original ex-| As he bumped his toe against the
hortation, to say the least. It ad- bed,

vised the boys that it was hoped) “(/?21234 789 587278 fifeago? ?!!2”
that they “would start the New Year —Sheaf
tight.” Just a slip. ...

—_—e———

Mother: “Do you know
naughty girls go?”
Daughter: “Yes, everywhere.”
—Silver and Gold.

where Little Jack Horner

Sat in a corner— )
S; 0;

ant
a

In the annual bulletin sent out eS Breathes there the man with soul so
;
|
| —Western Gazette.
)
|

A noted health authority stated| The doctor was questioning the |
last summer that during hot weather| nurse about — her latest ' patient.
‘babies should wear as few clothes as “Have you kept a chart of his propossible. And now there doesn’t| gress?” he asked. “No”, said the
seem to be any age limit on babies./nurse, “but I can show you my

—Queen’s Journal. diary.”—Gateway.

 

 

 

 

in which tobacco

can be smoked.”

|
|
|
Cin Bh
“The purest form Pr

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED |
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements
Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 
    
   
   
    
 
    
  
    

Ask For

FARMERS’ ICELAND BARS
A DELICIOUS REFRESHMENT

“Taste the Difference”

FARMERS’ LIMITED
- HALIFAX, N.S.

ee,

SHOES

For College wear or for
the Dance are better at

It’s Smart to Eat
WALLACE’S.

After The Show

The Cameo chefs are preparing your evening “snack” as
“the last scene fades out at
your favorite movie. Many
theatre fans like to come to
the Cameo and discuss the
picture in comfort.

THE CAMEO

35 Spring Garden Road

The Student’s Shoe Store

Wallace Bros.
“Specialists in Fitting”

415 BARRINGTON STREET

— Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a high standard of scholarship,
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B. Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Eviginesring, Phartiacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics

Graduate Courses, of . Modern Languages and History.
of recognized standing, leadi i
M.A., M.Se. &, Jeading to degrees of

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance

»

and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;

in the B.Se. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
    
   
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
    
   
  
 

, : a , ; Ps fe As
L } ¢ ee ou ;
eee a Ray ee ao eee
SY oe ee , a in Pk Re, ‘ mC mi:
omae Py al ee eS ’ * oe a teas
UY eae
ré. FP eens
EE a
7 vi

; STUFF AN D

the

 

i

"
a.
er
waa
2

am,
=

 

third estate

ee gd

 

GLEE CLUB
Everybody liked the Freshman
‘Show this year. Some went so far
as Ai yaal that this is the only type
_ of show that we at Dal. should try
e% oa on. one more thought that

SHOULD WE ABOLISH STUDENT
FORUMS?

Jack Kerr, 3rd year Medical Student—“Theoretically, the idea behind
Forums is sound — if nothing else,
the students meet each other. If the
same faithful few turn out each time
and only those same ones, they could
meet some other way.”

 

Betty Sandall, Arts ’40—“I think
we have to have them. What are
you going to use to replace the Student Forums if you want to get the
students together? It is unfortunate
that Dalhousie students don’t show
interest enough in their own university to turn out for these Forums—
but perhaps better publicity is
needed.”

oe widely criticized.

_ Now why all this enthusiasm over
_ musical revue neither better nor
i i worse than others we have had here

before? ‘here are several reasons.
: S The Frosh were delighted because
- Mee catered to their none too mature
tastes, Upperclassmen enjoyed the
opportunity of seeing a large numD. ber of the: ney class on a stage “all
es | prettied up” so that they could see
ay the prospects for the coming year.

i f We all enjoyed seeing a show that

was purely entertainment of the
| a __ lightest variety, and had no interm
_inable intermissions—added to that
* the fact that there was constant
aeons and ridicule of the Powers

ay

 

Don MacKeigan — “The Forums
are just a chance for some people to
get up and belly-ache. I guess we
all need to belly-ache once in a
while, though.”

 

Alex Hart, Ist year Law Student
— “To reach the intelligentsia attached to the university, to wit and
viz., the lawyers, who are the true
torch-bearers of knowledge, Student
Fora should be held more frequently
—in the Moot Court Room of the
Law School. This will insure a complete attendance of law students who
should, as all thinking people on the
Dalhousie campus all know, have the
controlling voice in Dal affairs—you
may put that under a banner headline if you~wish!”

a Greatest factor was the fact that
Glee Club audiences are fed up
_ with long waits during incompetent
scene shifting, poor choice of presteens, bad settings and all the
me
Against the criticisms let us set
tf as mays Dalhousians like to remem| , “Ghost Train”, “Hay Fever”,
1 et 2 three-act plays can be hits!
_ Why have they been failures of late?
eas Siehccanse Dalhousians have been lazy
f about selecting those who would
me te their dramatic efforts. I do
no t mean the directors; they are
d and very kind to us. But con- we have picked Glee Club
sona basis, largely, of busiecutive ability (sometimes
that) rather than for
ferest in dramatics and honest
to. make the productions out
 

Rowena Benson, Arts’ 41 — “I
don’t think that the Forums should
be stopped. It’s the only way that
students of both campuses have to
get together on a common problem.
By all means let us have the
Forums!”

 

John Wiswell,~1st year Medical
student—‘No, Forums should not be
abolished! That amounts to taking
almost all the student’s rights from
him. If a quorum is not forthcoming, the quota required will have to
be reduced. Then, if the legislation
proves unsatisfactory, perhaps the
students will turn up thereafter.
There is not enough student interest
at Dalhousie. Everybody expects
everybody else to do everything.” 
‘ 1 ror years mismanagement and
R. loppiness have flourished—for ex: ample, painting of sets has not been
, _ completed under the day or even the
our of the performance. Constant

_—_ friction has been provoked, through
abuse of privileges by selfish ina be dividuals, between Glee Ciub officers
Pi and the Senate Gym. Committee, resulting in difficulties in getting the
neces time on the stage for remM _ hearsals, anid in lack of cooperation.

While all this was going on, those
most interested in dramatics were
f hin to sustain interest in good
plays, and to preserve and create
ambition for good productions by
eh * forming a Players Guild. In this
i a organization plays were read and
: : acted and discussed in small, uncomx -fortable rooms in the Murray Homea _. stead without stage, properties or
benefit of director. Organizers and
E> | leading lights of the Players Guild
were those who could have greatly
assisted Dal. Drama, but these were
e not the people elected to Glee Club
E i. Ny _ offices.

oe. This yearjhas been an improve| spre: though the Guild has gone
ys under again. The present VicePres. was among the Guild’s most
; active members and has helped the
- Glee Club this year. The President
me _ was occasionally seen in or near the

 

Pi a
7 7

Chapter IX.

Scatter good brains, or “L’Amour
Toujours L’ Amour.”
—du Venom viixi.

The witching hour was late in arriving but Fizzleque and Rufus
Rayne were hiding behind the wall
bars in the lower gym with their
heads together and conversing in
highly inaudible tones. If anyone
can converse in such a manner these
two pranksters would try it

“—F hear the Filthy Fifteen
| staging a hop here tonight, ” whispered Fizzleque.

“That’s what we are going to
erash,” croaked Rufus. Little did
he know it was free the dope.

“Tisten,’ quoth Fizzleque.
denly six couples of studes and

mm.
ss

18

NONSENSE |

 

RUFUS RAYNE FROM RANGOON « »

 

 

Sud-|

 

sp we a ce pm oe as

_ I _ eee —
Pree ee let aoe eee oe ya oe ; =a re *, MT
oe a a ae * 7 Ga? Pe re ae « ‘ay ene ae OS, ee ele
; e 5 ker Oe Pi a aes Ce ae pee “erat
ear a thee ne ete AS et a fe Set ee Sh eee pe eee
; a et oo o* ; fal; = = FAs) or ee 4 ‘lk , a h ©
¥o< - :

a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Page Three

 

 

 

 

The
PIG

STY

“Oh! My Hor-aace, I’m glad to see
you, my Hor-aace!” ... and why in
the hell disown a maiden with such
a beautiful approach, Trites? She
may have been “a friend of a friend
of mine” six years ago, but... as
you say... “I'll be seeing you
soon!” Happy Landings.

* * *

Dalhousie’s pa NS

who's who

 

 

 

The Boilermakers’ Ball seemed to
be quite a success .. . Lawson must
have improved that ‘Chest Expansion’ because Red River Valley, his
solo, WAS terrific. (No orchids de
served).
a Se
The Phi Chi’s entertainment on
Saturday ... aside from a broken

bed and few things everyone is now

under controls. Reg. Smith was seen

making an EXIT. Here’s to bigger

and better parties . . . What’s that?
. A Formal on Thursday.

This week we take great pleasure | a

in introducing to this column Miss
Phyllis Wray, who, although not a
student at Dal has done a great deal
to further women’s sports and physical education activities at this University. For this alone we think
Phyllis deserves special mention.
She was born in Lethbridge, Alberta,
but received her early education a’
St. Hilda’s in Calgary where she was
an Art Student. The career of an
Artist lost its appeal to Phyllis for
she soon left for Margaret Eaton’s
School in Toronto, to study Physical
Education.

We hear six couples attended the
Flopper Dance at the Gym.
Alan Gardner is hunting for a
ticket at the Arena? Nice manager’s
daughter anyway.
Claude Leighton is searching the
department counters again, and
seems to think he has made a find
at Zeller’s Cosmetic.
Thank God the Phi Delts were
quiet for once at a dance!

 

 

FRATERNITIES
ON THE

CAMPUS

In 1937, with Diploma in hand
Phyllis came to Halifax to take up
a position with the Y. W. C. A. as
Physical Instructress. During this
same year she got her introduction
to Dalhousie in a part time capacity.
In the fall of 19388, Miss Wray accepted the post of Physical Instructress and Director of Girls Sport at
Dal. Since then, under her able
guidance the Co-Ed’s athletic activities have shown a decided improvement.

 

The Sigma Chi fraternity was
founded at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, on June 28, 1855, From
this beginning it has grown to an
international organization, having
ninety-five chapters at different colleges in the United States and three
in Canada, at McGill, Toronto, and
Dalhousie. Delta Tau, an engineering society of Dal petitioned the international Sigma Chi for a greater
and was installed as the Gamma Rho
Chapter of Sigma Chi on May 6,
1933. The boys have successfully
operated a fraternity house since
then, first at 207 South Park Street
and now at No. 113 of the same
street. This year marks another
milestone in the firm establishment
of Sigma Chi on the Dal Campus by
the formation of an Alumni Association in Hailfax. The officers of the
active chapter for this year are:
J. C. Arnell, Pat Veniot, C. MacIntosh, T. J. K. Gillis, V. M. Koretisky, and R. W. Ball.

Sigma Chi has always been
prominent in Campus activities and
more especially in the Glee Club.

Miss Wray modestly gives the
D.G.A.C. all the credit and praise
for the way in which the games participated in by the girls are run.
She is extremely gratified by the interest which the girls show in their
games and also believes that the
Co-eds of Dal have a natural ability
for dancing, other than ballroom.
Miss Wray honestly deserves a hand
and for the benefit of the girls we
hope she keeps up the good work.

turned a ruddy violet and swung
along the wall bars to an exit, proving that Darwin was right. Mean
 

 

whil Fizzleque, captivated b
- owe . oo, Everyone knows of Joe Connolly’s
Moan’s contortions, careened into ; : ; :
achievements in dramatic production
the dance. He and Joon began a

at Dalhousie, Warren Beazley inaugurated stage lighting and sound
effects and a 100% active chapter
cast won the Connolly Shield in 1937
with their production of MacBeth.

Fizzleque, who couldn’t stand the | mony, of oe ee ae Aloe
are now serving with Canada’s

eo wi sina fi en! Forces. Commander J. P. Connoly
anbhed SG aes the wall into Roy’s! and Lieuts. Hendry and MacDonald
Shoppe, where he lay prone beside | ;are with the R.C.N., Lieuts. Millar,
the prostrate proprietor. His sud- | Archibald and Christie are with the

mi Dental Corps. and Lieuts. Crease

den entrance ployed a hole through 5 a
; : ; ‘and Laurence are serving with the
which the Filthy Fifteen began to} :
Artillery.

pour themselves. | In their six years of campus acti
c © co =|
kicked that around), whereupon he | vity the members of Sigma Chi have

cross between the tango and a goose
step.

“Look what we started,” wailed
the Filthy Fifteen as they watched
the addicts perform from the win
eee OO

|returned and ail the old Hall girls

Nothing like good home-cooking, | too?
eh Corky, eh Doug? And nothing
better than toast in the alcove.
(Or is there?)

*

Did you know that ice is slippery
these days? Especially on Barrington Street. Ask Olga, she sat on it.

i” ee

Well, give. Olga fell on the
ice and was quite shaken up? Well,
even so she’s not on ice and it
doesn’t look as though there’ll be
much danger of that — happening
around here.

Skipping classes? Not the Hall
girls! Well, we admit that it’s rather difficuit to get to classes when
we could go skating or skiing.
Chris? No, she’s back to the Hall
but not to classes yet. Have a heart
—or have you lost yours too like
many of the lads on both Studley
and Forrest have since the famous
redhead appeared?

Alright! Alright! Anyway I guess
somebody’s waiting for the phone.
Maybe next week we’ll know something more interesting or maybe we
won’t know anything. Solong.

* *

Congrats. to Blair for winning the
Tech Ball ticket. Another party for
the little blonde friends?

An Open Letter
To The Pig-Sty

May I take this opportunity of
thanking you for the consideration
which you were pleased to show
regarding my present academic
standing, also concerning the careful
prediction for my future happiness.
May I also take this opportunity of
suggesting a more careful concentration on your own scholastic record.
It appears to be in dire need of
someone’s concern especially regarding those marks that are more conspicuous by -their absence over the
past few years. As regards the

 

 

 

Capitol
CONTINUOUS 1 TO il

TODAY — SAT. - MON.

 

 

 

 

“Frenchman” at the Forum, I could GARY
easily interpret it by saying, “Why COOPER
Mr. Pig, I didn’t know you spoke —IN—
French!” - “THE REAL GLORY”
Sincerely, with
THE LITERARY EDITOR. ANDERA- Lane
Solas ds REGINOLD OWEN

Here Endeth ‘The Lesson.

B-9746

Shirreff Hall. Oh, hello! You're rathere late getting back to classes
aren’t you? News? Just scads of
things have happened. What would,
you like to hear about most?
Hmm. Well, we have been doing|} Visit Our Oyster Bar
a lot of skating and skiing. In fact Fresh Oysters, served just like
skiing is a prominent topic of con- you want them at Boutilier’s
versation around here especially Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.
when speaking to Joan Ballem or BOUTILIER’S
Daphne Christie. Joan has been laid BEDFORD ROW
up with injuries acquired when
skiing. Daphne Christie’s answer to
her arm-in-a-sling is “Skiing!” We
didn’t say ‘we wondered, did we?
And skating! You really should
go to the Forum on Saturdays. The
likable President of Pi Beta Phi gave
a beautiful demonstration of a
forced landing last week when without the aid of her skating partner
“she took off.”

On Sundays the present fad is to
go for a walk and then “drop in for
tea.” At least we noticed two Phi
Kappas out strolling Sunday. They
were with — oh t’ell what’s her
name? Anyway the other lass, well
we won’t mention names, eh Kay?

Great excitement reigned Sunday
when the gentleman whose diamond
is worn by the “doc” from the geology department appeared. Speaking of diamonds, our fantastic
freshette Agnes appears to have received one just after dinner Monday
night or so the gossips have it!
Just the same we think Sally’s and
Kay’s “jewelry” is much more interesting.

Member Bunny and Viv—the in-|
separable freshettes of last year?
This year ’till now there’s just been
Bunny with no Viv. Last week Viv

TUES. é WED. [| THURS.
SONJA HENIE
“EVERYTHING

HAPPENS
AT NIGHT”

RAY MILLAND
ROBERT CUMMAiNGS

 

 

   
  
 
 

 

  

College ine si at COLWELL'S
on m Street for all your
clothing requirements. ‘

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all oecasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Access »ries.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

  
 

Insist on

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors-- 15

W. H. DONOVAN |
45 GRANVILLE ST. _B-6821

 

 

 

What Would
You Like?

Before Christmas
money slips away;
why not invest it in
a tangible, lasting
gift. }

SSS Ss neniialiieianeannnmeat

are giving the genial Cape Bretoner
a hearty welcome back.
Pardon? You know

 

some news

 

 
  
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
       
     
       
    
   
  

 

 

Joon Moan had a mad race for the |

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

“Hold that line,” roared Major | i |
sacred precincts, though seldom | ‘ /shown themselves to be an asset to

 

Wurlitzer which up to now had Catfish, who for a moment though fin Untearnity be tisk wholehsarted Perhaps a College
stood in impatient and dejected, he was at a football game, and add- Beart car er i Badd ae ake ‘ ring, from Birks.
i ~The point is this: this year WC! silence. Joon was almost chocked| ea , “Rah! Rah! Rah!” interspersed pie EY arema eee nn |

, 7 ust select the right people for the | | to death by the scramble or her by three Hies and two Haecs.
ei ‘various positions, not pick an in- chewing-gum, as the terrific mob) “For John’s sake stop,” wailed ~~ |
at dividual for President because he or| poured nickles into the machine. | Buck Private Meginty, the lone Venom is annoyed with the stupid-| l«@ sy
has a good backhand at Ping) However, the only record it would | guard, as he was trampled under )ity of the students at Dal, will ex-| }*
| Pong or wears green tights in the | play was “Oh You Crazy Moon”, | foot. 'port to that place a percentage of| had
‘ classroom. Rufus Rayne had fixed that. The) As the Filthy Fifteen, led by the) French Canadian students to bolster
oe mob was now shaking the gym to! dashing Fretty Barone, streamrolled |

Henry Birks &
Sons Ltd.

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

rar

ae

as é

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i SES the average of the French 1 class|

e Te la shambles as it stomped to the towards the Arena, Petty Scandal | and please the prof.” |
Mi R 3 ENTZEL | scintillating discords. paused for a brief moment to read} At which cheering news the one)

ob a VIN & G | Rufus and Wilpert P. crept slow-| her report of the C.S.A. (Can’t Say|time friend duVenom was heard) Th 3 Alwavs

ay me $pecial Rates to Students ly out of hiding and Joon Moan, Anythingforsure) Convention which| weeping over the formless shapes, eres Always | a Good Show at the CASINO

j BS)
erie ta)
ne it he

24 Hour Finishing Service
18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
on Phone B-6992

'who was doing a RUMba solo, twirl‘ed drunkenly towards them. One of
‘her twirling skirts twitched the
protruding paunch of Rufus (I sure

she attended in a green hat and a of Fizzleque and Attwood.
noticeably waring dress. That gets rid of one villain.
“Resolved,” she read, “that the| Major Catfish failed us? Are

 

Has |

4 SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
the

Big Double Bill — You'll Enjoy It!

ey
Be.

C.S.A., due to the fact that du-Engineers a fading race

rey =
ae

 

 
i dele rush that all but clicked

; err ee as

re :

Nn ae raid and “gentleman
Pinas to ge” Corston took two rebounds
before denting the twine. Score 4-4,
excite ent high. Collins, Thomas,
‘and Corston made a nice line as they
tedly_ rushed in a furious effort
gain a win. With about two
minutes to go it was anybody’s game
t te pee ends with every

Tae a : ae turning in a nice left wing
sacha ob for the Tramways beat the Dal
By eg efense on a pretty solo flight to
beat Munro. This ended scoring for
rd th h e game, , but the game finished with

A,

Spas ie striving to tie it up again.

| the opposing goalie sprawled.|
A nother

 

 

There is a marked increased inerest in badminton at Dal this year.
‘Tanager Mountain’ of the Badminton
Team has entries in two leagues, the
Taiifax Church League and the
“Yalifax Young People’s League. So
far this season Dalhousie has been
doing remarkably well in both
leagues. Within the next two weeks
an elimination badminton tournament will be held to determine the

college champions.

Speaking of tournaments, the
annual ping-pong tournament is
‘slated to take place sometime before the end of the month. All
contestants should leave their
names attached to the list posted
in the boy’s locker room. The defending champion, Babe Stewart,
will be out to defend his crown
again this year, but he will have
plenty of opposition. However,
we feel confident that he will repeat again this year.

We watched King’s College take a

7-1 beating at the hands of the Air

Force squad last Monday night.
After playing well for the first two
periods, the Kingsmen bogged down
in the third canto to let the Air
Force rap in five goals. Especially
brilliant were the ,Kingsmen’s defence and their goalie, who saved the
score from being much higher.
Tufts, a rugged 200-pounder, plays
a nice game at the defence post, al
je has sent teams to the March | though a bit rough.

  

ee the Maritime Intercollegiate

Many were those who attended
the Dalhousie skating session held
at the Arena last Wednesday
evening. A fine time was had by
all and the Council should be com
ng mended fer spending their (our)

money in such a beneficial way.

a ' ty| _ Before the skating segsion, the

D. A.A.C. and the Students’ Council

ect put on a benefit show, (for the
tres benefit of Red Payne), and the

  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
    
 
      
    
 
   
 
  
 
     

Dalhensie Tigers made a very imght- t-man as, from fly to pressive showing in their exhibition
yw , and to carry the cham-| game against the “Y” seniors last
: Pp shield back to Dalhousie] Wednesday. Under the mentorship
re. of Coach Ralston, the Tigers have
turn out, you men! From the| been working out daily, getting into
y “little hundred pounder in| shape for the loop openers. We feel

ni Su wore ‘Coach Becher will bring out
ny latent ability you possess along

Sen + te and if you’re a seasoned
ere , Temember, you can never
tip much ring lore. And for

KINGS LOSE
TO AIRMEN

A fighting squad of King’s College
pucksters lost out 7-1 to a powerful
Air Force team in a regular league
fixture played at the Forum last
Monday.

The blue and whites held the Air
Force to two goals in the first two
periods but weakened badly in the
last canto to allow the aviators to
slam in five goals.

For the first two cantos the Air
Force were unable to get their plays
working because of the effective defensive tactics of the Kingsmen.
Later in the first period, Cowley
counted from a scramble in front of
the King’s cage. Gray made it 2-0
for the Air Force early in the second period, but Howard tallied near
the end of the period to cut the lead
to one goal. In the last period the
airmen had things pretty much their
own way as they rapped in five goals
without a single reply from the
collegians.

Soe tru mt a the pink of condition, will
be ready for the fray. .
ia: ea further Sunewcemant, work
- Hective Speaking - Camttoned from Page One

i doe trivial at present, but
A e day a member of the meeting
b Co nt say, “And now we will call
y ir. You to give his opinions on
subject.” What then? |

Soa 81st the next es of

at eran fas or girl) are prai
ee

> sone be ‘scorned for a first

First Period
Air Force—Cowley, 17.21.

Second Period
Air Force—Gray, 5.16.
King’s—Howard, 18.18.

Third Period
Air Force—Cowley, 1.45.
Air Force—Brackenbury, 8.50.
Air Force—Brackenbury, 12.10.
1. Air Force—Hannon, 15.40.
mB Air Force—Talbot, 16.45.

As

F,. Mountain, Dalhousie, defeated B.
Graham and C. Harris, St. Paul’s,

= — ~ — ——e — Pras a i
ie ' ee Pia oil i ' hats f ¥ por si -, 2 a> Te rs
: Pe EU “ye -, . “a ts ee eee ? J
ici Boe Oye t wo ae aay ger X if
7 = ye “ . ’ ee » ™
tC oat ce t if ett i+ me ~ Biwi nett 7
“~ wi ee a»
Nel Ep of SERUM ry Fb s ay Fi Trang ©
(pee ee Nae Reagel
I Tinea oF mh
i nied DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

INTERFACULTY
SPORT

 

Lawyers Win

Showing a powerful scoring attack
in the second period, Law hoopsters
took over first place in the Dalhousie
Interfaculty Basketball League by
virtue of an impressive 31-18 victory
over King’s in a game played at
the gymnasium last Tuesday.

Play throughout the first period
was tight and rugged, neither team
being able to obtain more than a
2-point lead at any time. The Law
squad fell behind from the start of
the period, as Forsythe scored on a
long shot. Midway through the first
half, Law began to combine better
but were unable to break through a
rugged King’s defence. The Kingsmen passed nicely but were far from
being accurate in their shooting.
Near the end of the first period, the
lawyers took a one-point lead on a
basket by Trites, and at half-time
the score stood 8-7 for Law.

From the outset of the second half
the lawyers began to press hard and
soon forged into a substantial lead,
as the forward line of Lyall, Anderson, and Trites clicked for several
nice scores from close in. King’s

GIRLS’ SPORT

 

Well, the girls may have been refreshed after the holidays, but they

‘| certainly were stiff after the first

basketball practice — never heard
such moanings in all my life. However, that shows they are getting
in some good practice, and with.a
trip to Acadia scheduled for the 3rd
of February, the team certainly
needs all it can get. It is said that
the Acadians are putting out a good
team this year—but so are we, (we
hope!)

At a basketball meeting the other
day representatives of the different
classes were elected. Those chosen
were. Shirley Kirkpatrick, senior;
Frances Glass, junior; Barbara
Schwartz, sophomore; and Mary
MacKeigan, freshette. These games
have started this week and will be
played every Wednesday and Saturday. Although the interclass series
started only last year it turned out
to be very successful and is getting
bigger and better all the time —
Thanks to Miss Wray.

* * +

Usually about this time every
year we begin to hear about swimming. Seems most unnecessary when
its so cold, doesn’t it? But there is
a ladies swimming meet coming off

faltered badly in this period as they sometime in the near future and Dal
scored only 11 points as against the| Wi! want to keep that cup. What

Law team’s 238, due to failure of
their men to check closely, and inaccurate passing on the offensive.
Stubbs and MacLaren, King’s
guards, played nicely, and if it had
not been for nice blocking on their
part the score would undoubtedly
been much greater.

The Kingsmen made a desperate
comeback midway through the second period .and came to within 4
baskets of their opponents, but they
tired quickly and the Law cagers
put on another scoring splurge as
the half drew to a close, leading at
full time by a 31-18 score,

For Law, Anderson with 8 points
led the attack, closely followed by
Trites and MacKenzie with 7 and 6
respectively. Forsythe was top man
for King’s with 6 points.

Kings — Forsythe 6, Howard 4,
McLaren 2, Stubbs 3, LeMoine 1.
| Law — Anderson 8, Hutchins 4,
[MAES eis 6, Trites 7, Lyall 4,
Stewart 2.

BADMINTON
BOOMS AT DAL

Dalhousie played two badminton
matches last week. In the Halifax
Church League the Dal squad defeated St. Paul’s four matches to
two, while in the Halifax Young
People’s League St. Matthias handed Dal a four to two set-beck.

In the Church League match, Dal
swept the men’s and mixed doubles,
but lost both of the ladies’s doubles
matches,

In the Young People’s League, St.
Matthias captured both the men’s
doubles matches and* one of each of
the mixed and ladies’ doubles.

Following are the results of last
week’s matches: .

Dalhousie 4, St. Paul’s 2.

Men’s Doubles: O. Hennigar and
D. Gibson, Dalhousie, defeated W.
Dunlop and A. Cunningham, St.
Paul's, 15-6, 15-12; G. McKnight and

 

 

  
 
   
   
   
 
   
  

Mounsey,
Dennis and D. Marriott, St. Matthias
15-12, 15-8; A. Crawford and E. Rojell,
and Kirkpatrick, Dalhousie,
15-6; Ladies Doubles: M. Lesley and
M. Terley, St. Matthias, defeated
Parks and Patchell, Dalhousie, 8-15,
15-6, 15-11;
Dalhousie, defeated J. Mason and M.
Publicover, St. Matthias, 15-4, 12-15,
15-10,

about it girls?

* * +

The dancing class that was so well
liked last year is to be continued
this year, and is held at 2.30 on
Fridays. There seems to be a lot
of people interested and so it will in
all probabiity be a very good class.

———

15-8, 16-17, 15-12; Ladies Doubles:
D. Flett and D. Jost, St. Paul’s, defeated M. Selen and O. Mounsey,
Dalhousie, 15-6, 10-15, 15-11; P.
Holland and M. Wollaber, St. Paul’s,
defeated J. Blackwood and D. Christie, Dalhousie, 15-0, 15-2. Mixed
Doubles: C, Keddy and H. Brownhill,
Dalhousie, defeated F. Milne and M.
Hennessey, St. Paul’s, 15-10, 15-12;
G. Piercey and M. MacIntosh, Dalhousie, defeated D. McCleave and B.
Myers, St. Pauls, 17-16, 17-14;

St. Matthias 4, Dalhousie 2:

Men’s Doubles: Cook and Rozee,
St. Matthias, defeated Lewis and
Allen, Dalhousie, 15-4, 18-14; Zick
and Kinley, St. Matthias, defeatd
Doig and Mosher, Dalhousie, 15-12,
15-12.

Mixed Doubles: Tasman and
Dalhousie, defeated F.

St. Matthias, defeated Hazen

15-2,

Faulkner and Moore,

Dalhousie St. Matthias

Men’s Doubles... 0 2
Mixed Doubles... 1 1
Ladies’ Doubles.. 1 1
2 4
St. Paul’s Dalhousie
Men’s Doubles... 0 2
Ladies’ Doubles. .- 2 0
Mixed Doubles... 0 2
2 4

 

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose,

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST.

HALIFAX, N. 5S.

Tiered Poe hag Lee EA, )
: oe te ; + ~ ms Pee
it, ee art = oe oF a? 7
” aT SOL A es el + 2 cy » +e aa 7 4 v

Delegates Meet—
(Continued from Page One)

bellished by crests of Canadian colleges from Pacific to Atlantic, was
the scene of a New Year’s Eve concert featuring songs, playlets and
messages of greeting, performed in
native costumes and spoken in native
languages of eighteen different nations. Typical of the merriment and
good humor of the evening was the
remark of the student from West
Africa, who announced that if the
audience really wished to see him
in strictly native costume they
would have to imagine a _ striptease act.

T. Z. Koo of China.

Leaders of the Christian Church

from all over the world acted _as
speakers and resource leaders at
the Conference. Prof. Hromdka of
Czecho-Slovakia; Dr. Yuassa of Japan; the youthful Dr. D. T. Niles of
India, and China’s famed Dr. T. Z.
Koo were among the foreign leaders, while Dr. Van Dusen of New
New York, Latourette of Yale, and
John C. Bennet stood out among the
Americans. Margaret Kinney, well
known to many Dalhousians, was
co-chairman and livest organizing
spirit of the huge gathering.
NEW YEAR’S PARTY
At the New Year’s Eve concert
Russell Ames Cook of Yale led a
choir of 120 voices, selected from
among the delegates in a masterful
rendition of choruses from Handel
and Bach, and variety songs.

 

  
 
   

  
 
 
 
  
 

“eam Boccted in Practise c=

Mit. eRe
Cd «

January 19, 1940

 

Toronto, Ont. — The first session
of the U. C. Parliament of Toronto
University will debate a question
that has been a lively issue for
years. Their subject is “Resolved
that in the opinion of this House the
giving of corsages should be encouraged.” (Note: for the second
time in history a woman undergraduate is to be Prime Minister).
Student opinion on the question is
divided about as one might expect—
the co-eds for, and the men against
the giving of corsages. One student
went so far as to claim that it was
anti-social and emphasized class distinctions.

A Complete
Musical, Service

 

456-460 BARRINGTON
HALIFAX, N. S.

Finest Quality
Sporting Goods

of.

 

 

 

Winter Sports
Good Appetites

oe 7?

ontest

 

os then
. New Method |
oo $] The |
¥ Cleanin
i dcsiantecd 1 year ) Green Lantern
imi Main Springs, $1.00 | far vood-£

    

4 OXFORD

mm 86s: Jewellery Store
> 575 Barrington St. £

    
 

407-409 Barrington St.

Restaurant”

:
|
|
| “Eastern Canada’s Finest

  

DR. J. P. McGUIGAN

) wishes to announce the opening of his office in

Birks Building, Barrington Street
for the Practice of Dentistry

Office Phone B-7623¢

Residence Phone B-3021
= VOTO a 4

SSO

 

 

SS ssesssesensnssssssessssensennsnseseees
tc

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

OECTA AA AE

 

DELICIOUS
APPETIZING

Neilson's |

“THE BEST CHOCOLATE MADE. BEST CHOCOLATE MADE

     
