    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
       
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
          
     
  

  
 

  

  

- Q for Glee Club )
| pe. 7 Jan. 3h) i

mak!

a

rains
i jie * de « t
s 4 LA 4 Hy!

es ze

   

Re tiateit re OR
"STATEMENT, OF NATIONAL EXECUTIVE

QF THE C.S.A. ON CHARGE OF MT.
_ ALLISON DELEGATES AND DEAN KRUG.

The Canadian Student Assembly was formed
ae 1987 by Canadian students, for Canadian
, bas _ students, Successful action on scholarships was
- eh _ the main feature of its first two years’ program.
At its recent conference at Macdonald College,
_ full discussion led to the following five point
_-—s: program :—maintenance of education facilities,
Hs improvement of university standards, support
to democracy in Canada, education and a balJot on conscription, encouragement to under
S standing and cooperation between French and

English peoples. Arising from commission discussions, this program was endorsed by the
- yast majority of the delegates. It is not an
Vinge ae or anti-war program.

Two Mount Allison delegates attending the
te fl ehinfextance, where there were four commissions,
as claim that the controlling group tried to side‘ track discussion of the legitimate problems of
adian nip students. The yonly con
  

  

           
       
 
      
   
      
 

2 National Executive Committee of the
S.A. can only deplore the decision of Dean
f g not to remain at the conference beyond
first two days. In addition it would have
his regard for student judgment to have
ented his criticisms to them for consideram. Had he remained at the conference he
auld have delivered the address for which he
as scheduled and he would have been in a
tter position to evaluate the conference.
Other commission leaders have publicly and
vately more than commended the democratic

‘cuban and direction of the conference.

  

  

  
  
 
 

 
 

     
    
    
     
    
   
     

   

C.S.A. EXECUTIVE REPLY

“The delegates presenting their reports in
a “the Argosy Weekly quoted explicit minority
- opinions as the conclusions of the Conference
as a whole. No opportunity whatever was given
the C.S.A. to correct this misrepresentation.
_ hese part-time delegates, for they were con
       

 

AGAINST

The group studying Canada’s place in international affairs was inelined to lean towards]
radical viewpoints. A marked disfavour of the
present conflict was manifested, together with
a strong desire to withdraw from it as soon as
possible.

—Acadia Athenaeum.

Before the present controversy arose the

5.R.C. was planning to leave the C.S.A. anyway, ;

holding that membership in the N.F.C.U.S. was
sufficient for a university of this size. With
the discussion that is being carried on at
present, it is more than ever evident that the
best course of action for U.N.B. is to sever all)
connection with the C.S.A. This university is
one hundred per cent pro-British and one hundred per cent behind the government in‘its war
policy. The attitude of the C.S.A. towards the
war and Canadian participation has never been
stated and is not clear. Thus, let us quit the
C.S.A. due to the indefiniteness of its policy
and the fact that membership in this gathering
Is not advisable from a financial point of view.
—KEditorial from the Brunswicken.

 

 

 

 

i therefore, for my Sask do not regard
itl opinions or the personnel of the

adian Student Assembly as representative)
Canadian students. In my opinion it is an

af- i Giestitcations that might better be named “The

Canadian Socialist Assembly or, more accurately, “The Canadian Soviet-Corpor ative ee
sembly.” If the Conference at Macdonald)
College is any example, its main aim is to carry!
on subversive agitation for which its other |
activities, including National Scholarships, pro-|
vide the bait by which well-intentioned students
and faculty members like myself, are caught.
—Extracts from Dean Krug’s Letter in the Argosy. |

 

 

Today, | in the light of common fact, it would
appear that not only was the C.S.A. ‘composed

‘of a large and unwieldy group of delegates

with variations of interests and a broad and
vaguely worded agenda, incapable of handling
the practical problems of student life; it also’|
appears that the C.S.A. might have become al
dangerous organ of subversive minority opinion which can no longer lay any claim to connection with or support from any Canadian
university or the students thereof.
—From Ubyssey Editorial.

“In 1939 we were’delegated by the Students’ |

ve Bri -spicuous by their absence at many sessions, | Union of Mt. Allison University to attend a

    
    
     
   
     
    

_ were in no position to interpret the Conference
- hich any one.
| “Their statement that the Conference was
Re Se ti-wair and anti-British is in direct conflict
o foe with reports and resolutions adopted by the
se Assembly as a whole. A quotation from the
a preliminary report ‘That this present war is in
ie Si ah reality another phase of the eternal struggle
| for balance of power in Europe, and as such has
_ no direct interest for Canada’ was a minority
_ expression in a commission. Their presentation
of this as majority opinion is an inexcusable
we _ misrepresentation. It is merely minority opinA , ‘ion, which has a legitimate place in any report
sat A - that pretends to represent the different sections
fe of Canadian opinion.” |

  

     
     
    
    

 
  

 

       
    
      
      
    
     
       
     
      
        
      
   
     
    
    
    

  

i Phere i is a great to-do in some quarters over
a controversy arising from a recent meeting of
_ the” Canadian Students Assembly at Ste Anne
: de Bellevue, Que. There are cries for all sorts
of action, police effort, and a general purging,
fa eo one would think that this was Herr Hit
ler’s Germany rather than Democratic Canada.
pe ‘For the rest, if some criticize the war effort,

ey are doing what many of the rest of us are

‘doi oing. Criticism i is a democratic privilege.

  

 

  

  

This ‘country is still a democracy. Let us

p et this talk of purges and. Gestapo methods.
as a hysteria and retain our sense of
ortion, | ae Laeeerretat in The Halifax Star.

1 tha a 7 ‘i
el ee +

similar conference with the above ideals in
mind. During the two years that have passed
since the last conference a startling change has
taken place in the setup of the C.S.A. To us it
represents a radical body whose main aim is to
spread agitation among the University students
of Canada, to achieve an aim which will be revealed during the course of this short report.

“From the first it was apparent that a body
of students were in control whose purpose was
to swing the discussions away from the legitimate problems of Canadian University students
to a discussion of Canada’s War Effort and
Canada’s link with the Empire. The point to
be made here is that any consideration of what
support might be given to Canada’s War policy
and her ties with the Empire was given no support. On the contrary any patriotic protest of
loyalty was met with laughter, scorn, or the
silence accorded by adults to childish prattle.

“The conference was definitely Anti-British,
Anti-War and Anti all those principles which
ferm the basis of our ties with the British
Empire.”

As delegates from the student body of Mt.
Allison University we strongly advise with
drawal from the Canadian Student Assembly |

and any other similar organization sponsoring
the subversive activity impressed by the C.S.A.
on the Soiree at Macdonald College.

 

aia Cc. S, A ‘Resorts On
Canada And World Affairs

TEMPORARY DRAFT

Findings in the report shall pre- |

tion, but are not recommendations |
for action by the Canadian Student

Assembly.

‘Report of Commission on
Canada in World Affairs

‘I. Canada Before the War, or
Canadian Foreign Policy.

After some valuable opening re-,;

marks made by Professor Underhill,
following which there was a lengthy
discussion on the subject of policy,
the commission, with an opposition
of four votes, summed up its opinion
in the following finding:

Inasmuch as ‘Canada is an equal
and autonomous member of the
British Commonwealth of Nations;

And inasmuch as Canada has the
legal right to pursue a foreign policy
determined by her own interests and
independent of that of Great Britain;

And inasmuch as Canada has not
taken full advantage of this opportunity in the past;

Thereforey we go on record as
favouring an independent foreign),
policy, compatible with Canada’s
legal autonomous position within the
British Commonwealth.

ii. Canada’s Attitude Toward Conscription.

To arrive at a conclusion concerning this matter, a cross-section of
opinion was taken among the members of the commission, and the
following finding was obtained:

Whereas a basic condition of a
democracy is freedom of choice, and

Whereas a policy of conscription
is contrary to the views of an important section of the people, and

Whereas our government has advanced a program which has not included conscription, and has stated
that it will not invoke conscription,

Be it resolved that this commission is opposed to conscription for
the duration of the war, and to military commitments such as a large
expeditionary force which would
prepare the way for conscription.

Judging by the opinions expressed
by the delegates present, rperesenting all Canadian universities, it
appeared that in the West large
numbers of students are opposed to
conscription; in Ontario, fewer numbers are opposed but their opposition is more active; in the Maritimes
there is no opposition, while French

sent the opinion of the commissi on |
. ’
on any particular phase of the ques
|

|
:

 

 

 

 

|
|

F
|

 

 

:
|
3

|

FINAL ‘DRAFT

 

It is of course to be understood
that the resolutions belew are the
decisions agreed to by the Conference as a whole. The temporary
resilutions in the opposite column
are but the findings of a small
committee of the Canadian Students’ Assembly.

DEMOCRATIC RIGHTS:
1. Clear outline of Canada’s
war policy.
. More frequent sessions of Federal
Parliament.

“<= 1 =" a

= _ Se oe

Ca kn ae eta la

SLE
PROSPECTIVE °
GRADS

ATTENTION!

Degrees & Diplomas
are to be engrossed
shortly. If there are
any alterations to be
made in. your name
send the correction
to the office at once,

 

“EXPAND N. F.C.U.5

At the end of four hours of de
liberation in the most arduous meet
ing seen here these many moons,
Dalhousie’s Council of the Students
voted to withdraw from membership
in the C.S.A. by the following resolution:

“Whereas it is felt, after due and /
careful consideration, that the ins
terests of the Student Body of Daihousie University can best be served \
by one national organization, viz.,
the N.F.C.U.S.—particularly in view
of its contemplated expansion, giv
|B. MAINTENANCE OF ) ing some representation to interest

groups—be it resolved: that the
Dalhousie Student Council withdraw
from membership in the C.S.A.”
BARTON TO MT, A.
President Barton, who had recent
3. No extension of mandate of gov-|ly returned from a rush trip to Mt.
ernments because of war. |A., opened the discussion by pre
>

. Withdrawal of restriction of dem-| senting the case he had gathered

ocratic rights in the Defence of|there. During the meeting sharp

Canada regulations. —
. Curbing of war profiteering.

Ss ot

ing industries.
7. Freedom of action for

objections were made to unsubstantiated aspersions cast by that report

. Nationalization of war profiteer-|on the integrity of Grant Lathe,

national C.S.A. secretary, Professor
Lower of Manitoba, and Otto An
‘trade unions. | toft, chairman of the delegates.

|

C. CONSCRIPTION:
1. Education concerning AREOR S|
tion.
Circulation of questionnaire on
conscription in co-operation with
the Canadian Youth Council and
the Bloc Universitaire.

E. ON CANADIAN UNITY
AND AUTONOMY:

. Safeguarding of legitimate rights
of provinces.
. Abolishing of appeals to Privy
Council and reconstruction of the
Supreme Court.
3. Right of Canada to amend her
Constitution.

 

The Resolution on Conscription

(This i is the only resolution available
in full until the C.S. A. report is
published.)

“Be it Resolved that the National
Executive of the C.S.A., in keeping
with the forum nature of the Assembly, be instructed to issue full
information to local assemblies on
Conscription and that they be encouraged to take action where they
so desire.”

 

Canada is solidly opposed to conscription.

In view of the feeling of the committee with regard to conscription, it
decided to recommend to the Resolutions Committee that the National
Executive of C.S.A. be instructed to
aid the Canadian Youth Congress in

(Continued on Page Two)

ATT TEN TION !

At the command of the Student’s Council there was
to be no Dalhousie editorial or student opinion in this
week’s issue of the Gazette. In order that Dalhousians
may judge for themselves as to the merits or demerits
of the recent C. S. A. conference, a sincere effort has
been made to present as impartially as possible the pros
and cons on this controverial matter.

Since last night’s Council meeting the front page
story has been added. For the rest, we leave the ma
—Report of the Mt. A. Delegates.’ terial as assembled previous to the meeting

Mr. Antoft insisted that the con
i\ference was conducted democratic
ally, that although there were def|initely sceptical persons present, the
conference as a whole was not antiBritish and anti-war.

Inez Smith said later that she had
seen nothing that would lead her to
believe the charge was correct and
insisted that she was “Canadian to
the core”. Mr. Burchill stoutly defended the aims and advantages of
the C.S.A. and remarked vehemently
as the motion was presented, that
the Council (God help them) did not
know what they were doing.

C.S.A. NOT BROAD ENOUGH

Most outspoken against the organization, in addition to the president, were Messrs. Ormiston, McKean and Woodbury. Heard im its
behalf, in addition to the delegates,
were Jim Currie, Bernard Graham,
Henry Reardon and Windebank.

Bud MacDougall, recognizing the a

advantages held out by an organization like the C.S.A., was instrumental in changing the motion to
make room for local activity of the
persons interested. The point that
weighed most heavily against the
C.S.A. was that as an assembly of
persons representing interest groups
rather than the official delegates of
student councils, it was not a broad
cross-section of Canadian university
student opinion.

It was felt that opinions of delegates from Quebec and Ontario had
dominated in the resolutions adopted
and that the Commission on Canada
in World Affairs had expressed sentiments extremely unwelcome at
this time.

While admitting the benefits that
would accrue from amalgamation of
the N. F.C. U.S. ‘and C.S.A., the
Council, McInnes and Windebank
dissenting, decided that until such
time as an amalgamation should
take place, the best course for it to
pursue was that embodied in its
motion. The final action of the
meeting was to release the restrictions imposed om the Gazette.

 

 

  
     
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
      
    
 
  
 
 
   
  
    
     
   
    
 
   
 
  
   
  
    
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
   
    
  
 
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
    
    
  
   
   
      
    
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
    

‘peledoni clearly the fol-|
ritish Columbia feels suffi-|
away ; from the immediate
; ) be a the most part

oie a Sonal minority
rly ? The entire Marisect ion is en masse in support

‘government in its war policy
fi: es nearer to the

nt war. Pacing the discussion
wh 1 ensued, the opinion was adzs nced by the Manitoba delegation
t the ot, had to a great

war Wasik in oie merely
Oe the tn Be ieee

 
 

up, a part ‘of|
the representatives of
Ma es, reiterated their dein ation. to Dia behind the goyment whatever her decision. This

eae -Regrading the discussion concerning this question, the findings and
resolutions speak for themselves,
since after a short discussion, they
_ were unanimously voted upon. Folee Towing is the finding:
=, "Whereas in the present war situ‘ pe en ation greater issues are at stake
ak than ever before and therefore the
Be ; e: fullest discussion is necessary on all
26 _ of these,
a ‘Whereas we consider democracy
to be an essential element in the life
if ‘Se of our society,
Be it resolved that:
4s: The C.S.A. go. on record as
being in complete support of the
| Sit of free speech, free press,
nd free assembly in the present
situation,
| 2 ‘That Parliament should sit at
2 ‘more frequent intervals than at the
(i Baresi so that full discussion on the
war can take place on the part of
. * all the representatives as well as the
my ee eee
; ai 3. That there be no extension of
‘the term of the present govetuinent
under the guise of “war emergency”
z s this is incompatible with the right
the Beonle to judge the actions

  

gf VAL

| Fe

e
Pd

me ea Yay ee
ie #

_ WEBSTER MACDONALD. - = - -.- B-9602

“Raitor: JOHN WINDEBANK Sas te  BASaB

Oe CAHAN ~'- = - B-3148

ae Editor: D. ON - - = = B-0698
Assistant Sports Editor: JOHN WHYTE

Feature Editor: BOB MAITLAND - += - - - BGs

Literary Editor: GENEVIEVE MacMAHON

  

oe ae “if

a Gasette

FOUNDED 1869—“THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA”

mt r Sy

4
4! - ©

  

‘ y

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Assistant Literary Editor: AINSLEY EMBREE

Exchange Editor: JOAN ELACKWOOD : - B-9746
C. U. P. Editor: JACK MATTHEWS

Business Manager: INEZ SMITH ay ie - B-1049
Asst.. Business Manager: KEN ARCHIBALD | - - B-321
Staff Photegrapker: BILL TIDMARSH :

Proof -Editor: ROWENA BENSON B-9746

 

What Stands If Freedom Fall

(a symposium)

PRO

COL. DREW at Toronto, Nov. 8th:

Addressing the largest Conservative meeting ever held on the University of Toronto
campus, the Conservative leader stressed the
| importance of maintaining democratic principles
during crisis. Should free play of speech and
thought be curbed, he warned, a country would
| not long retain its democractic nature.

Attributing the rise of Nazi tyranny to lack
| of vigilance on the part of the German public,
Col. Drew told his listeners that constitutional
rights should be guarded jealously.

“We should be careful while we are fighting
principles outside of Canada, we do not allow
those offensive principles to creep in here,” he
declared. “The Nazi terror began by a failure
of the German people to remember the principles of democracy,” he added.—Varsity.

H. G. WELLS in The New Age, Jan. 4th:

One of the more unpleasant aspects of a
state of war under modern conditions is the
appearance of a swarm of individuals too clever
by half, in positions of authority, excited, conceited, ‘prepared to lie, distort and generally
humbug people into states of acquiescence, resistance, indignation, vindictiveness, doubt
and mental confusion, states of mind supposed
to be conducive to a final military victory.
These people love to twist and censor facts. It
gives them a feeling of power; if they cannot
create they can at least prevent and conceal.
Particularly they poke themselves in between
us and the people with whom we are at. war
to distort any possible reconciliation. They sit,
filled with the wine of their transitory powers,
aloof from the fatigues and dangers of conflict,
‘pulling imaginary strings in people’s minds.

It is not only that these various Ministeries
*) of Information and Propaganda do their level

S rt the limited gifts and energies of
le cturers and talkers as we pos‘oduction of disgenuous muck that
dle the public mind and mislead the
foreigner, but that they show a

5 (end ring
Y| marked iecouiion to stifle any free and in
dependent utterances that may seem to traverse
their own profound and secret plans for the
salvation of mankind.

“SATURDAY NIGHT”, Jan. 20th:

It is not a simple task to define exactly
where the limits shall be set, and we must
guard jealously against dangerous encroachments on our freedom. The British are already
doing this. Canadians might be well advised to
follow Britain’s example, for the Canadian
Government has, in certain respects, gone
farther than Britain in the restriction of civil
liberties and democratic processes in wartime.
It is difficult to see why this should be necessary in Canada which is much more removed
from thé area of conflict than Britain.

 

the threat to the suspension of the
freedom of the press and free speech.
This resolution recommended that
the C. S. A. investigate the restrictions incorporated in the Defence
of Canada Regulations, and petition
the government to withdraw any of
them which are incompatible with
Canadian Democratic Institutions,
and that the C.S.A. conduct an enquiry on the effects of these Regulations upon university life.

VI. Question of War Profiteering.

This question was introduced with
a resolution to the following effect
to be put before the resolutions
committees, that since the war is
placing burdens on the Canadian
people resulting in lower standards
of living, and since war profiteering
is already appearing in Canada the
C.S.A. should petition the national
government to take effective measures against these two evils, taxes
and profiteering, and to present
these facts to the Canadian people.

The commission decided to recomjmend also that the national committee should circulate petitions
through its local groups for the
immediate nationalization of all war
industries,

Canada and the United States.

Py
“

lad a a+
r. _?. a i

x oi - é a f. ta ay =,"

: 9 = fn

iba

SSS est Sh SS SS-—SSS: SS
ST - =

 

ri

CON
The Halifax Herald and Mail
Jan. 19th:

And it is a disquieting fact that “rebels” of
this type are found, not in mine or factory,
forge or forest, fishing boat or in the “lone
figure in the distant furrow,” but in the universities of this country.

Jan. 18th:

When will certain of our own professors in
Canada come to a realization that they occupy
no “privileged” position: that a spurious “immunity” afforded by the classroom counts for
nothing at all where wartime laws are concerned ?

Let us look at the case of ‘another professor” who asserts the “right” of a man now
charged in the courts with violation of the
Defence of Canada Regulations—his “right to
oppose the war”.

This professor “believes in free speech for
pacifists”. In fact, according to his own admissions over his own signature, he appears

to assert the “right” of an alleged “free speech”’
no matter what the ‘‘free speech” may contain.

Jan, 17th:

. but just how large

39 e
:

A “lunatic fringe”
is this “lunatic fringe

To cast the mind back a few years is to
realize that this “lunatic fringe’’ was making
considerable headway in certain Canadian universities. It was led by half-baked ‘“intellec
tuals” and crackpots.

It would be equally fair to place no inconsiderable amount of the blame upon a certain
type of professor (yes, and clergyman) who
appears to believe that all wisdom and good in
 

January 26, 1940

“How did you get rid of Zelma?”’
“| told her | was out of Sweef Caps.’ ”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM,
DRUGGISTS

LIMITED |

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

Ask For

FARMERS’ ICELAND BARS
A DELICIOUS REFRESHMENT

“Taste the Difference”

FARMERS’ LIMITED

HALIFAX, N. S.

tentions begin and end with something outside |

the British orbit.

The immediate and important question is:
What are the Canadian university authorities
going to do about it? It is up to them—or, failing this, to the governing authorities of the
country.

Jan. 16th:

Congratulations to Mount Allison on this
wholesome British-Canadian spirit; and

A demand that these subsersive elements)
and activities be cleaned entirely out of the|
universities of this Dominion.

“That Man is Here Again”

eee ANTI-WAR .

MORAL SABOTACE ETC.
- ETC, EFC; aeaie

CANADIAN ©

STUDENTS
ASSEMBLY

” Note, Thug cartoon is from a source outside the University.
Tt is not to be interpreted as Dalhousie opinion.

 
     

 

 

 

Winter Sports
Good Appetites

BLAKELEY’S

for Lunches

Dinner then
The
4 Green Lantern
for good foods

Join Your Classmates!
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

407-409 Barrington St.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest
Restaurant” |

and Confectionery

 

 

 

       
    
  

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 
 

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

 

Arts and Science Faculty

  
   
   
       
     
    
 
     
     
   
     

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics

Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Se.

Courses preparatory t Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;
in the B,Se. course about $190.00 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully ‘supervised residential facilities for men.

 

 
=}

* & *

W hy the hasty change of rooms,
7? Was you room too cold or
ee We hear Sally Smith was
nee 7 outed by the same “small things.”
£ = *
. Canty s medical interests are beet g a habit; at least as far as
Jimmy Watson is concerned.
| * ¢ ¢€
! There are objections to these
_bright-eyed freshettes who believe a
sir E each other Bend morning.”

r ies

ee.

K i

*¥

hae Tis se only a play.
a es has been oe

le “Hen”
le

Chapter X.
Without Fear or Flavour.
—Censored.

Having consumed three glasses of |
that venomous concoction, the Hali-|

|fax East Haymaker, (see Chapter |

Last Friday morning saw a very
slim attendance at lectures, for some
reason. Lew Lawton made the nine
o’clock one, though, evén if the effort
did prove a little too much for him.
Congratulations, Lew, we heard that
Jim Squires wasn’t even seen till
Friday evening.

Unauthoritative sources have it
that Red gloated mightily on the
night of the Dal skating party, be
cause it was costing the Council so

much money. Why was Red gloating?
high.

Why did Cameron switch from his
steady diet of murses Saturday
night? Why was he so worried
about the success of the latter part
of the evening?

What a change in our Alton! The
hard working fourth-year laddie
must have had a great time in the
holidays. Home for the weekend so
early in the term!

Ski-ing takes the rap for lots of
injuries at this time of year. The
Honorary President of the Independent Order of something or other
blames a fall for his sore (shall we
say) back. Too bad, Hoody!

Waldo will have to be good to explain how the bulb of a lamp in a
girl’s apartment got broken, but not
the rest of the lamp. Waldo was
there at the time. It is believed,
moreover, that it was not his girl!
Incidentally, Waldo, this column will
pay double the usual amount for the
information you can give about one
C. Young.

Cape Breton’s loss is another’s
gain; Don Graham walks no more.

ee n_| Nove, not even Saturday nights.

it is hoped. pa the Couneil wil

all “Two } Medical students at the last

meeting of the Medical Society

‘|would have liked to see a one-act

ee b onder what kind of a game
‘Chis ler” Malcolm i is plying. Could

¥

ie K seem to be takA their politics more seriously
an their women. Strickland tried
drown Betty with a bucket of
- and “Stinky” drowned his

*
amn that Rufus Rayne! He
its s the Students’ Council to cencolumn, too!

* *

: H,

It takes planning to
have favors for a
dance that are “just
right”’.

Birks have them—let
us plan ae you.

| Henry Birks &
Sons Lid.

“Diamond Merchants,
Halifax, N. S.


Insist on
D onovan’s Beverages
} 15 - Different Flavors - 15

_ W. H. DONOVAN
| 45 *eneihabaom ST. B-6821

play entered for the Connolly Shield
by the Society. Boy! What the
Glee Club audience escaped that
time!

What a razzing Murphy and
Feindel take. And they aren’t even
from Newfoundland! The professor
went so far as to describe Jo-Jo the
Blond-Killer’s date as a “Bombshell”.
Murphy’s offense was less printable
if more explosive!

the
third estate

Should Boys Send Corsages?

S. Borden Bird, 3rd year medical
student — “It all depends on the
girl!”

Arthur Ormiston, 3rd year medical student —‘‘A boy may wish to
send one to a girl he is quite friendly with. I don’t see why he should
do so if he is taking her out for the
first time, unless he is terrifically
fascinated by her.”

(Columnigt’s note: Make sure it’s
constitutional first.)

Edna Menger, Arts *41—‘“No, I
don’t think it’s necessary. If a girl
is going ont with one person a lot,
then a corsage means something—
but I certainly don’t think that every girl going to a formal should
expect a corsage!”

Fred Faulkner, Ist year medical
student — “ Did you say corsets ?
Yeah—good idea!”

Figures quoted are a

| Porm sadly inadequate.

for recipe), and being a Law student, Bug MaGoogal was still aie

@ +

~

Dalhousie’s «

who's who

sober and was seriously considering’! ;

attending a meeting of the Filthy
Fifteen who were at present overgoverning the students at Dalhousie. |

It was a lovely night out, for pen-|
guins. A light snow was falling |
through a quiet downpour of greenish mist, all of which encrusted!
everything in a six inch coat of ice. |
But this didn’t bother Bug after ten
years at Dal—he was used to it.
As he groped his stumbling way towards the Arts Building a wierd
yellow light weaved and wobbled towards him from the general direction of Antigonish. As it came near-|
er and grew even larger, poor Bug |
was stupified and stuck to the spot. |
With a great effort he put out one |
quivering hand to ward off the thing |
and screamed:

“T didn’t do it, honest, I didn’t.”
“Take your fingers off my pro-|
boscis, Sonny,” roared Prof. Binnit,
“before I wrap a bun around ’em
and bite ’em off.”

“Ah! a handburger,” he added as
an afterthought. As the beauteous
Bug slowly came out of his mesmorization he began thinking and
talking of Joan Gloomytrees and
Kissy Cameron, but was immediately declared non compos mentis by
two lurking Med students who were
sawing a woman in half.

“T didn’t give-a-dam what time it
was,” began Bug, but broke off
when he saw Binnit and said, “Excuse me, sir, if I am late.”

“T say, it’s you, MaGoogal, a Law
student—right?” quoth Binnit.

“Right you aw, Binnit, old man,
accept no substitutes,” said Bug,
handing him his flask of the afore| mentioned brew which was fast be
“Say, the Filthy Fifteen has cen.| sored the Gazette, so Wubber Mac|Tunneled has joined the C.S.A.”

“Poor man, give him the liberty
to blow, to stutter and to gargle
freely according to directions, providing it’s dated, and he will be a
better man than I am, Goonga Gin,”
burbled Binnit, sadly, misquoting
some minor poet and a Listerine
add. ‘Dash these radio programmes,
how will I ever get in the grove for
English 2?”

“You’re on the beam now, kid,”
blurted Freddy Barnone as he raced
around the Library, closely followed
by the harrassed Wubber MacT.
Just as Miss Gloomytrees held up a
card signifying the sixth lap and
another card with “Applause” written on it, stolen from the Club
property room, Wubber caught Fretty and began clubbing him with
copies of the Gazzette and a bundle |
of C.S.A. pamphlets.

The rest of the Filthy Fifteen,
stood idly by and gleefully waehek
the proceedings as usual, until they
suddenly realized it was their. boss
who was getting pummeled. Where- |
upon they seized.the copies of the
Gazette from the failing hands of |
the mighty Wubber and tore them
into bits. Wubber, having nothing |
more with which to defend himself, |
rapidly fled. :

“Somebody catch him,” growled
Fretty Barnone, who was now mad |
for revenge, so Buck Private John |
McGinty fired his cap pistol three
times after the retreating Wubber,
‘who had by now thrown himsel
into Bedford Basin. : |

Will Mandy Lou get eaten alive}
by the Pirates? Will Wubber MacT. |
freeze .to death? Will anyone ever!
buy a copy of the Gazette? Will|

obby Coon and Billy Mink fool!
Farmer Brown’s boy? Read all

»

(Columnist’s note: Now just who | about in the Year Book which will |

would he have in mind?)

“Kissy” Cameron (explanation un
necessary) — “Heavens, yes! At a| -—-—--——— ee
formal dance, everybody should have | hand—I ain’t talkin’. Yes, of course |

If any-| they should, but why?” .
ee Ss going out with me, they’d

one. They look so nice!

be out at the same time next year, |
so order now and avoid the rush.

(Columnist’s note: a;

* Through

stops, and remembers to whom she glass darkly?)

is talking.)
Ron Ritchie,
ib hasta

Ian MacLeod, 2nd year médical

2nd year medical | student—“I think that it’s the cus— “Well, I don't know off-| tom, isn’t it?”

| longer

—— - = — = * !

It seems fitting to use as this |

week’s example of Dalhousie’ great
such a personage as Ralph Plummer.
Ralph was born in Woodstock, N. B.,
in 1917, and, except for two years,
has lived the rest of his natural life
at Hartland, N. B.

Graduating from his home town

high school, Ralph came to Dalhousie in the Fall of 1987, where,

after two years of Arts, he joined)

the Graduating Class of 1941. Although never achieving any _ supreme academic glory, he has been
a better than average student and
hopes to join the medical staff of
the Royal Canadian Navy after
graduation.

In the past two years Ralph has
taken a keen interest in student affairs, accompanied by success in
athletic management and tremendous popularity amongst the students. Last year he was medical
representative on the Council and
manager of the ill-fated football
squad.

In the ‘Spring of 1939, after
hard-fought contest, Ralph was
elected President of the D. A. A.C.
and has lived up to better than expectations in that post. He proved
himself to be a great organizer by
his work, in conjunction with the
Council, on the festivities which accompanied the Caledonia game.

In his earlier years at Dal Ralph
was a trumpeter in the erstwhile
band and played on two medical
hockey teams which won the Interfaculty Championship.

Report of Commission on
Canada in World Affairs

Coniinucad from Page Twa

Whereas Canada is a definite part
of and forms a geographical entity
with the rest of the American continent, and

Whereas Canada has many probems in common with other American nations, and

y a . :
Whereas Canada is now involved

in an empire war,

Therefore, this commission foes
on record as favouring Canada’s
becoming a member of the PanAmerican conference when she is no
at war with a European
| power.

On the basis of this finding, a}
recommendation was made to the|

;

resolutions committee that since all ||
;

interests geographical, eco- ||

| Canada’s

 

f | nomic, and social are held in common |
with the United States, the perma-|

1 The Technical College Students invite you to dance to
Bruce Holder and his Orchestra at the

Tech Ball

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

FEB. 2 $5.50 jer couple

: 2 ; ri Pr 7 - ae a 
— ———EE —
" 2. ee eke jhe utd vw
4 or Trartre » fe; =
Jb iy As Th
Pa ae re @
Tike ~~

fee '

ee

The Nova Scotia Technical Colleg

Offers Engineering Courses
in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, AND MINING
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotian Students
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.
Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F, H. SEXTON, President.

nent executive of the C.S.A. should
| be instructed to draw up and execute
a program for the intérchange of
ideas between Canadian and American students which might include
exchange scholarships, the sending ;
of delegates to American Student
Congresses, and the exchange of
teachers. |
In conclusion, a vote of thanks was
made to our resource leaders Father
Saint-Denis, Professor Roy, and
Professor Underhill in appreciation
|of the invaluable services which
they had rendered the commission.

Capitol

CONTINUOUS 1 TO il

TODAY —- SAT. —- MON.

HENRY GLAUDETTE
FONDA — COLBERT
ay, pee

“DRUMS ALONG
THE MOHAWK”

@
TUES. - WED. — THURS.
Barbara Fred
Stanywick — MacMurray
“REMEHBER
THE NIGHT”

____ COMING FEB. 2nd
“GULLIVER’S

TRAVELS”

 

Shaves - Hair Cuts - Shines
_ The Best of Service
Student Business a Specialty

PUBLICOVER’S

LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

 

New Method
Watch
Cleaning 4 1

Guaranteed 1 year
Main Springs, $1.00

OXFORD

eA Jewellery Store
(> 575 Barrington St.

College men, call. at COLWELL’S
on Barrington Street for all your
clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear,

Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accessyvries.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. 
Visit Our Oyster Bar

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S

BEDFORD ROW Halifax

co UUGQI0ODPYNSBALUSAOOODAAASO OO SOOOTOEN SEALANT ee

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

ULNAR SARS DEAE TA UA

Shane’s Annual Sale
of Famous Brand Shirts

«

Forsyth — Arrow — Tooke and Lewis Shirts
from our regular stock. Values to $2.50

To Clear: $1.39 Each — Three for $4.00

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose,

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST. HALIFAX, N. &.

There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — You'll Enjoy It!

 
    
   

i

|
|

;

 

 

  

eee
| ——- Jowe# gym these days as Blois’ ping-!
Re At .
bi

 
 
      
  
   

= Yr

 
   
 

is ae

4
: Lor
< j

ers

*

Dalhousie basketeers have been
doing excellently in exhibition games
sa far this season. Last Wednesday, the senior Tigers handed the
Y.MC.A. aggregation a 31-27 setback in a hard fought match. The
Cubs, intermediate entry in the city
circuit, have won two games thus
far. Last Thursday they handed
King’s a 46-5 lacing, while on Saturday they defeated St. Andrew’s by
a score of 28-26. If both teams keep
up the good work on the floor, it
looks as if Dal will have championship teams this year. The Cubs
opened last night against the St.
Andrew's crew and made an excellent showing. The seniors are slated
to go into action on Feb. 1.
Attention is called to the revision
of the interfacuity hockey schedule
which will be necessary due to
cramped hours at the Forum. The
first game will take place on the 29
of January, but it is hoped that a
new schedule will soon be drawn up.
Managers of the various teams will
be notified before each league match.
- Dentistry outpounded Commerce
29-17 to win the opening game of
the softball playoffs last week. Although beaten twice previously in
exhibition games by Commerce, the
Dents had too much power with the
stick and led all the way. A feature
of the game was Tommy White’s
home run in the sixth inning.
Congratulations to Mike Smith,
second year medical student, on being elected by his team-mates to
captain the 1940 edition of Dal’s
entry in the senior basketball league.
Mike is a fine fellow, a smooth

basketball player, and will give his
. best for the team.
_ Celluloid’ chasers are thick in the

‘i
al

pong tournament continues at a fast
' pace. It looks as if semi-finalists
~ will be Stewart, Blois, Reardon, and
Colin Smith, but we pick the defending champion, “Babe” Stewart to
take the Crown again this year.
Coach Abe Becker, boxing mentor,
is holding workouts three times
weekly for pugilists in the lower
gym. ‘These periods are Saturday
afternoons at 2.30, and Tuesday and
Thursday evenings at 8 p.m.

Basketball

Dal Cubs swamped King’s College
46-5 in an exhibition basketball game
at the gym last week. Although the
Kingsmen- were weakened, being
only able to put five men in uniform,
the Cubs’ victory was very impressive. Their offensive clicked from
the start and broke through a week

King’s defence for easy lay-up shots. |’

All Dal men played well, Stone
and Stewart netting ten points
apiece. Stewart was especially effective at the guard position. For
King’s MacAlden and Forsythe were
the best offensively.

Dalhousie: Stone 10, Stewart 10,
Lyall 2, Bundy 8, Charman 8, MacKenzie 8, MacRitchie.

King’s: Forsythe 2, MacAlden 8,
MacLaren 1, Martin, Smith.

Softball

Combining heavy hitting with
good support in the infield and out
field the faculty of Dentistry took a
29-17 decision from Commerce in the

’ first game of the interfaculty softball playdowns played last Thursday evening.

Dentistry was superior in all departments of the game, while Commerce played ragged ball in all
except one inning, the fifth. Den
_tistry scored in every inning except

 

___._ Dentistry — Greenberg ss, Merke
og ‘
Q ~~  r. ‘
a es
pS an
~ ;
ie {omer
« ial

f

ley p, Marshall 3b, Becker c, White

- 2b, Preiss 1b, Trabman cf, Becker
ef, Star 1f.

Commerce — Koyen 3b, Hanson ec,
eron p, Blois 1b, Matthew 2b,

 

. 3 thrill as Collins took a lovely pass from Thomas to again fill | ship hockey with two St. Mary’s

| turned on the heat as their plays started to click. Ona face-off |

Dickey.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE January 26, 1940

Outspeed Rivals, But Lose, 8-5

played 4 years for Bishop’s College
in Quebec.
|

John Dickey—right wing—weight,
|145 Ibs. A potential score in every
raid, that’s our Johnnie. Very fast
and quick to take advantage of every
break. This Halifax boy is playing
| his third year for Dal.

:
}
|
| Roderick Black — left wing — 150
‘pounds of go. Roary is an Amherst
boy and upholds the hockey reputation of that town: He also

former Bishop’s College player.

is a

 

Ken Mitchell—right defense—160
pounds. Dartmouth’s pride and joy
is a heavy hitter and stops opposing
forwards in their tracks. Ken looks
light on the ice but he’s tough boy,
he’s tough.

 

Reading from left to right: Ken Mitchell, Roddy Black, George Collins, ;
Geo. Corston, John Dickey, Bain Munro, Joe MacDougall, John Chucrhill- Here S Your
Smith, Webster MacDonald, Marty MacDonald, Bill Thomas.

Hockey Team

Tigers Lose Exiting Game, 8-5
In the finest game witnessed so far this season the Dal-|
housie pucksters outskated and outplayed the powerful Tram- |
ways squad, but defensive lapses around their own net let them
down with aloss. Top man for the Dal scorers was Bill Thomas.

smooth working center player, who had three points to his
total with a goal and two assists.

The following are the members of |
the Dalhousie entry in the Halifax |
| Intermediate Hockey League,
tured above.

pic
| Bain Munro—goalie—weight, 147. |
John Churchill-Smith, also pivot man, was going a breeze} Bain has had 2 years senior experi- |

as he too continued his scoring with one goal and one assist.

W. MacD. and M. Mac. D.’s assist each. George Corston, George

Collins and John Dickey had a goal apiece to complete the total.

|

; : .
ence with Dalhousie and plays a |
| heady game between the pipes. He}

:
;

is a Halifax boy anl before coming |

'

The team appeared well balanced with the first line picking |
up three goals and the second line accounting for two. Out-| pockey.
standing was the work of both goalies, especially that of Rolf, |

to Dal played junior and commercial
}

Tramways’ cager, who had to turn aside twice as many shots |
as Munro. Most of these shots were from short range and it)
was a miracle that more did not get past him. |

sitting in his tent, from “Lights out” to dawn’s yellow
Smoked his pipe of Picobac and pounded out “De Bello”.

® Julius had a lot of De Bello Gallico to do
—and everybody knows what Latin composition is without Picobac! Perhaps he crossed
the Rubicon to go home and replenish his
supply. Today, however, there is no need to
| cross a Rubicon to enjoy the pick of Canada’s
| Burley crop, always a mild, cool, sweet smoke
| and conveniently low in price.

Martin MacDonald—left defense— |

170 pounds. Marty is also from

The game opened raggedly, but play smoothed out ey
and was fast and full of pretty passing plays. At about the! _ piss SS har a
five minute mark Corston got the first goal as he and Bill ee Be ae FREE, Oo Bienes Ava
Thomas teamed up on a pretty pattern play. Seconds after the | P's 1s his first year at Dalhousie,

face-off Dalhousie supporters, of whom there were too few, got | but he previously played champion
Halifax and is a dangerous man

 

the net, | teams.
; ; .- ab

These two scores gave the Electric boys a shock and they | HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH . 15¢

1%-LB. “LOK-TOP" TIN - 60¢

also packed in Pocket Tins

cobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!’

 

in front of the Dal cage Kennedy, big four veteran, Grové ®| webster MacDonald—weight, 175

shot through a maze of players high into the upper corner of | plays right defense. Like Marty, |
the net. A few minutes later Dal was caught up the ice £88 | AWabby in 4 dangerous rusher and i e
Hartland, Stanhope and Joudrey came in three abreast, giving} particularly effective on the a8
he was unmarked and batted in Munro’s clearing shot. Near |j, playing first year with Dalhousie

 

 

Munro no chance. f sd |play. Webster learnt his hockey ir
Kennedy got a second unassisted goal to make it 3—2 when ' Kentville from whence he hails. He

the end of the period this same whirling dervish scored again |but played for 3 years on King’s

as he split the defense and drew Bain out of his net before intermediate team.

slipping it around him. |
|

 

 

From the opening whistle of the second stanza the Tram- |
ways scored again to put them three up on the Dal boys, who|
now began an offensive that was the highlight of the game.
From this point onward they outplayed the Tramways com-|js one of the fastest skaters in the
pletely, but the damage was done. [league and this year is turning in a

The line of Collins, Thomas and Corston was very good | fine performance on the first forward
and gave the rival goalie a hard time as they poured rubber at| line. He comes from the land of
him from all sides. The defense trio of MacDonald, MacDonald | hockey, Ontario. Copper Cliff is his
and Mitchell also tightened up and gave Munro the protection | home town.
which he had lacked in the first period.

John Dickey got-the only goal of the period as he took a
pass from Churchill-Smith at the blueline and broke in fast to! Bill Thomas—centre—145 pounds. |
score a lovely goal. A penalty to Collins on a doubtful foul saw) Bill is a smooth playmaker and
the Tigers successfully withstand raid after raid and the period | finished around the cages. He playended without further score. }ed one year’ of senior hockey for

; : . | Dalhousie and previously played for

The third period saw the kid line of MacDouzall, Churchill- King’s Collegiate School. Also a
Smith and Dickey force play, but they just failed to click on| native Haligonian.
the playoff combination. As lines changed Dal turned on the '
power and kept Tramways bottled up. Bill Thomas picked up
a rebound from W. MacDonald’s hard shot, directly in front of
the net, and made no error this time after the black and gold
had missed several chances. A. penalty to Tramways saw Dal
move up, but this strategy backfired as Lawlor broke away to
make a solo score.

_ Horseshoes covered the trolley boys for the next few
minutes as the Tigers took shot after shot from close range.
Tramways were again and again penalized and again Dal was
victim of a breakaway which made the score 7—4. Anxiety to
score led to defensive lapses that led to Tramways’ final goal.

The last five minutes of the game was all Dalhousie as the
boys never stopped trying and they were rewarded shortly before the final bell when Marty MacDonald passed to ChurchillSmith directly front of the net. Johnnie made sure of it as he
golfed it home. Final score 8—5.

Great credit must be given to coach Pete MacDonald for
the way in which he has brought out the best in his charges,
and it is expected that the Dalhousie-Airforce game next Monday will be a humdinger. C’mon everyone, help our team get
in the playoffs! ;

Dalhousie line-up: Goal: Munro; defense: M. MacDonald,
W. MacDonald, K. Mitchell; left wings: Collins, MacDougall,
Black; center: Thomas, Churchill-Smith; right wings: Corston,

George Collins — left wing — 165
pounds of blinding speed. George

 

 

George Corston—right wing—150
pounds weight. George is an experienced player and seldom fails to
make the red light blink at least
once a game. Comes from Halifax
and has played senior and intercol- |
legiate hockey for Dalhousie.

 

 

Joe MacDougall — left wing —
weight, 145 pounds. This sturdy
Cape Bretoner is an aggressive forward who gives his all, all the time.
This is Joe’s 2nd year at Dal coming
here from St. F. X. He comes from
Sydney.

 

 

John Churchill-Smith — centre —
145 pounds. John plays the aggressive game of the “kid line” and is
a good setter-upper. This is his
first year at Dalhousie and he is

making good in a fast circuit. His DALHOUSIE vs. AIR-FORCE — MON. JAN, 29
‘home is in Halifax and he formerly | INTERCOLLEGIATE— DAL vs. KINGS, Wed.Jan. 31

HOCKEY

 
