   
  
 
  

—S ef > 7 7 tac i

Pa er eee meshes Fee Ne CUMe ht ATOR Mek al ee a RLS ee eer yd Co” eral

= Set aE ele Ce ee Resp ser Pn eS ae tt aoe Oe yyy ee ee 7 ' ee 7 ? “i. hee
hee Bee RT ae er OPE ae al eho PY a he a ee, pen teagan ; A

é Ch is : ‘ va
, se he ay, me ; ty a
: i is :

 
 

a ‘ 7 ey ' - = * . .
i ¥ fl ‘ : ac AF x ; ta ; +
ba = é ; = 7 - 4 Ee ‘ ,
eae F ie Ii. ‘ - y 3 }
1] t - FS, vir. ee 7. 4% i S f i, .
a : } el ae 7 i . :
ae 5 i , a. ay
rE - 5 > - Lb seg : | Wis i i :
Tee yt! | ‘
SN? eee gy ake le Bee of re p
ul ae Ty Py ah, a. . i « . 5 c ‘
pet A reat? homie P Ane S
M . - i aed 4 . >
{ aN a Pl oe * te ri e :
Sere iL eae ae ap Aer oe. ih Pee | agers a te a = ae
ae pA sh 4 ? ik TK & . de ’ '
za Boe rie 3 +3 — aa ee ” 4 é ‘ .
ayy i ae 24 p ‘ : a 3 A 4
' Sr) ” y | y a a Sit} ‘
y x ar, i as f > i : ‘
Det) ie'c) i } 5 ? u , ,
§ fe hay " - ee me ey I A 3 — ‘ : 7
i . F q ‘>
- - . fi
/ —--— Se eS eee eee eee eee

NOTICE!

Pre-Dent and preMed students who
intend te enter
first year Dentistry
and Medicine next |
year, please get in
touch with the Regtrar immediately.

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

— 
FINS
\

\Gazett

“iq BY THE SEA”

——

  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
      
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
    
 

ened

 

_

 

a

 

Forum Divides On Censure Vote
DAL HOOPMEN LOSE TO TARS®™**0¥, marci susrans

as | Now It Can Be Told N avy E d ge S O ut Tig ers At a lengthy, and at times uproarious student forum
fy Page (An Editoral) — Dal Grads T a k © Axem @7} | recent action over the C.S.A. controversy and escaped a motion

 

 

 

yesterday, the Dalhousie Council of the Students defended its
oy : Now that fee ety vada the i soy mahg ae away wie eee by a margin a ga votes.. It was moved by W.
the shackles have been y remove m this organ ¢ Ces co audet (Law) and seconded by Ian Robb) (Med.), “that a
student opinion, perhaps a little editorial comment might be in ° ° | A colorful opening and one of the|motion of censure be directed to the Dalhousie Council of the
- order ayerucaee | oe ee a, sirens St. F ° X. Mamtains |largest crowds to watch a basket- | Students.” In favor, 76; contrary, 95.
- Students Assem y WwW ic Y eaten spil 1S universi ¥ 2 o es i ball game in years featured BN ested ek a rg ean = : :
wide open. In passing we might observe that a sincere effort Association With C.S.A. opening of the City Senior Basket-| ; 7 | eee Barton lead off, reading
was made on the part of this paper to furnish an impartial Depl Pvahard labll Learue at Dalhousie last night.| Pinehill And engthy statement prepared in de- ‘
presentation of all the relevant facts, so far as was possible ie ‘With the Dalhousie band in atten-| RT \ ang ailsrahce ar telasboten-colthch-sk
ee under the restrictions imposed by the oe ent eS ce eee ictal ras! wry d Genes, and both... gamed exciting Delta Gamma Give my ee ed the decision were
ss that ~Dalhousian i i mselves whether e iG 5 | is he fans de-| pw. $i
= ian Students eae uae Gace on this campus or| The report of the St. F. X. dele- | fom pare oo ag Pek Fine Performance 1. Alegati de toward th
not. ‘For bett for worse, as events alone.can prove, this|&tes to the C.S.A. conference held) "™"| DO" OE ey ny ecigh ahaeee ts cp ask’ whee crap eae
nov, * sor er or for Be, A tLe Matiqunk Kod tic of |at St. Anne de Belleuve during the | match of the evening, Navy, a new-| Gis Wiad Whe tanGacd Bink | C.S.A. had not been satisfac
(aa iat mi se eee ue PS ie e oe th Christmas vacation, was delivered to| Comer to the senior circuit, took a| show ee cr 1d ) 1 | torily refuted. 3
Canadian University Students, which may in time take over the a well attended meeting in Immacu.|‘}98¢ 81—28 decision from Dal| show reminded all old Dalhousians| Quiche: and Gadertoiaitd weet
Oo ots feat f the C.S.A d thus result in an approxi- & lms : atch Dal|that the year had rolled round once
. 5 nt e etter eatures 0 e IDs an d ts Fed ti hi h late Auditorium last Sunday night. | Tigers, and in the other San a Me Si ana th re oF ti Faas | ponderance of representatives
oe mation to the proposed Seraee Si i eemaer er Great interest in this matter had) G™@¢s defeated Acadia 385—25. ae ee 2 ae ce eae a m4 and only a few delegates were
a was pressed for at the beginning of t = i d vinced | been aroused by the action of Mt,| _ The first game provided most of) °* if SUPT label gnc Ai high officially sent to the conference
______ To one sector of the university at least, and as was evinced) GANGS. “ob acdc. 7 fy ato dhed! Yionciis.
im the voting, a large sector at that, the Students Council did chewan, and the University of New |catly lead of three points on a bas-) ments and all the other parapher- Piece cutie bose.
5 not prove its_case that the Canadian Students Assembly as @ 4 y ‘ket by McKimmie and a foul shot nalia that go to make up a show} f - Crilicism DY €
Baik wv was anti-war or anti 1 assembly. i . ; , Te Aes as 10, 4. Failure of the C.S.A, t k
Bath Ue estion that this university would have treated such an | | Navy soon tied it up on efforts by|@cters. Wednesday night was no| * e U.S.A, to make
, jon with - eae it deserved. Granted that there Mr, ‘Smyth, stated that ‘the whole Killam and Hatfield, and from this| departure from this great tradition. | available full information re

 

 

bo

ce

‘the excitement. Dalhousie took an/| Prof. Bennet’s impromptu entertain-|
ws fabio - ~~ ™ e . eo, 2 * 2 i i i i : = : . issi ;
ey poe vhole was anti-war or anti-British. If it had done so there is Brunswick, in resigning from Nia by Seaman. Playing slowly, the consisting of Connolly Shield one-. commission on World Affairs.

   

8 Bie conference, it was not stressed by gc gh oad a aha ime on managed to retain a slight The audience was as restless as the | finances. S$ a MINOTIE, j opinion and did not reflect) eas .d by two chief gots ei lead throughout the first half. audience usually is, the plays were 5. That Mt. A., U.N.B., Saskat> as a whole. ae nate Ree ar tee : ‘| The Navy repeatedly worked the|@S bad and as good as such plays’ chewan and Manitoba Universi
As e final decision of this controversy These were the refusal to admit eh “bucket play” with great ene) are are, and Prof. Bennet’s jokes | ties had withdrawn,

ain in an expanded N.F.C.U.S. was rather a fortunate one,| °° ¥ *° understand the French-| as their forwards slipped through] Were of the same calibre as in years) (pq Note: Mani ii

svt 0? lei raky aS FRR al i . Canadian roblem, and the well ( - Note: Manitoba, according ta
pais st lamentable feature of the affair was the means adopted P tha Dalodak for lay-ups... Both | Past. | ark ts
a Vt i ae ST ee ae ee ee : : : known fact that a few radicals can} “© “2 Getence Tor lay- Be . the Varsity, has not withdrawn).
to reach this end. The whole investigation was pursued a ke much more noise than a great| teams were off in their shooting, |
Lieereae i * - in ng ee ee > . . a ‘ > ae | Ayr : ;
closed rather than open minds. The emphasis throughout was| newt Ree re ae ta at half time?only 29 points had DELTA GAMMA PLAY Gaudeb Lekaa: Netece

Cas subversive -organizaion, backed by subversive elements to Datelatien wdiith ena’ made ~-\for the Navy. | Helen Rogers looked extremely|to lambast the council as being in
Com ere ohn ar oed ei ee pet vite SG sak scab peihiaaay Roy of Laval Ke Sak Navy started the second half with charming when she said that she was/| capable of handling the affairs of the
_ against the dictators. The truth was distorted by journalistic) ~~~ cig
rs “St ? — rn 6 al om ' ‘ . . . . s i i- r S
___ illiterates, who prostituted the integrity of their profession by said, did speak in an anti-British

7 * “« *
x

    

 

° } . ° ‘ : * : .
another pair of baskets and for sev-| terribly in love with a handsome | students in a just and fair manner.

eral minutes managed to maintain) man with a small, dark mustache.|He defended the right of delegates

 

Vee , Be : tone, and claimed that both this war | ;
pees making unsubstantiated charges against the ‘half-baked law- aka fe Pee are He er adecetas la 7 point lead. At this point the! He was going to be a diplomat. The) to discuss conscription, said that the
ie ba breakers’ and ‘intellectual crack-pots whose criminal offense the balance of power. He felt that. Continued on Page Four | whole thing sounded all wrong to us| outery over the conference had

 

consisted in believing in the ideals of a united Canada and a/ ‘he [lance of power. Me felt that
_ better university. Throughout the investigation, insinuations, of attack ? , C O fa Cc M k T Say | Mind. feelings, and criticised the actions
which can only be termed as vicious, were levelled not only at si [NeW Fe B Ne IWWAAKE EEED! Carol Salton. as the vicars wife./of the president in civi ;
. It was Mr. Smyth’s opinion that. | ; the vicar’s wife, | ep ent in giving more at

one of the delegates, but at three professors and at the national I

‘but I suppose Helen knows her own ‘deeply hurt the French students”

i

ey oe te ‘ | ? /was well made-up to look the part|tention te the Mt. A. impression
-_ executive of the C.S.A. who had no chance to defend themslves. | 8°"S##onalism about this matter has: To Purcell’s Cove |

poet 'she had to play and she acted it| than te that of the local delegates.
| ee as : . ; done for re h to Canadiz Yoon ce £g
are A one-sided presentation of the facts involved was given at the milrae te eee hee ree Gathering bleary-eyed, in the dim | well. Bouquets for her. She said,} Mr. Antoff supported Gaudet, in
students council meeting which resulted in the withdrawal of

unity than anything said at the! Jad lish ahh e40 Tent Steday morn ! hei ieect ie Bass brled sca sia cca
¢ Settee : a tings. It was not denied that a| 87¢Y 1s -50 las ay -|on being interviewed, that she had|a brief speech from platform
this university from the C.S.A. Was this the spirit that made | ™®*

good deal of anti-British sentiment | 28s the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and oth no intention at present of ‘apeiatinee bis affirming his personal regard
n cae Te é osSi | si
4 had. been expressed at the. meetings, | Cn ae ee CoE snag fie Nyce a | for the President, but stated that
fut it was suggested . that these | Cf to Purcell’s Cove where nah Shirley was competent as usual|/® this partieular instance the
opinions signified leas than many spent the rest of the day following|in her part, and so were Yvonne| Council had shown, up to the

out a scheme laid down by Capt time of Mr. Barton’s visit to Mt.

this university famous as the first non-sectarian university i
the British Empire? The founders of Dalhousie were marke
by a love of tolerance and respect for the opinion of others
that was sadly lacking in the recent ‘probe’ into the C.S.A.

 

 

ain Mounsey and Mary Johnson. Prof.

BP ge nti rsy. people seemed to think they did. Tee ‘ :
E ie | en ee : ste hk b bald veat:Soatit; Danny Gallivan was of the opinion ‘Douglas in coordination with the first Bennet said that the parts of Marie Allison, a marked lack of interest
mee e€ students 0 iS university have been told that ‘politics Bae tan ag og Re eel | platoon of A and C and D companies. |and Madame Selenik lacked a touch|i™ the proceedings of of the conare of no interest to Dalhousie.’ How any intelligent student cry in this

 

e ‘ | Purpose was to put into practice | : fer ‘eek tad
Be ap aff. is} : : : t se teria. : |of the bizarre and of mystery. On/|*©®Femce as such, and had concerned
ve ean afford to be disinterested in such vital matters is more than | pe PON eeewa ae “apa what the unit has recently learned|inhe whole. however foe parts | themselves merely with whether o
_  wecan fathom, At any rate the C.S.A. stands condemned, con- & Pp Ps gat, ’ ; g

4 aaa tha caore fhdines Sen Fkcdmbucsion whons was-@ good sign) in that it showe granoue the duties and actions of were well played too. The general not a statement should be made to

; : scouts and patrols. ‘ery from these five was “ the press
; * : © - c ~ y ;; t p gin
complete course of study constituted but one quarter of the| ‘2 students were trying to think “Wy cocond group marched from| pa ye aT a are kal
° “Cat an og Fight”

whole conference. Every fold has a black sheep and the C.S.A.| ‘ese things out for themselves,) |. | Gym to Jollimore, set up headis no exception to the rule, but as matters now stand a valuable | °Y" ee ret AED WBA: BOE 36: quarters and set out to contact the hant: as nat = st, we interviewed! Some time-was occupied in what
forum for the discussion of student problems of nation-wide |" ‘first group which had entrenched|*2Y Hicks. Kay’s gown was parti-|Mr. Disher called a “Cat and Dog
importance is no longer available to the students of this itself in the rocky wooded country | °U@tly suitable we thought, and her | fight” between the President of the
_ university. In answer to the instructions given at the first of GLEE CLUB NOTICES | behind the stone quarry at the Cove. | 2¢tms Kept the whole play alive and | Council and the delegates over ceri + ‘ oe Senet z pa bs said ae there is aciniee aioe im- ot teas MR va | Onevationd wend cartier outin a sat interesting. A bit inclined to over-!| tain statements that had been made
a. po an the free discussion of problems in which every i

ith back point he fi |isfactory manner according to the act, perhaps, but we think that Kay| previous to the conferences, and then
. if - . . : « e . Ww 5 y S > + i“ F
mi student of this institution of learning has a vital stake. i ack points over the five year | Senos: «Some men were captured of! and Carol carried off the honors this} Mr. Woodbury took the floor on the

 

 

 

ll F . “= ; : . t t i i i e e i a : 71? . S
_ National problems, whether concerning the war or on purely) © ®°* ™ sea: poamuoy at-once | both sides. During the-early after-| ‘ime 2 fp council’s behalf, stating that because
i, an affairs are of immediate concern to us if we are to ‘noon the various outposts were re-| oy |\of the unfavorable publicity that had

 

: play the part that is ours in bringing them to a satisfactory) All those interested in a Munro|lieved and the cold occupants made| _ __ Pimehill Play |Tesulted from the conference’s' distermination. It is when these questions become taboo that| Day Show or in the Services’ Con-| their way to positions where soup | Pinehill pessented si their play | cussion of conscription, it was wise
really subversive elements thrive. Under the light of free,|cert Party turn out on Sunday at| was being heated. Fourteen gallons, Hewers of Coal” by Joe Corrie. It | for Dalhousie to withdraw. On that
_ intelligent discussion all that is unwholesome and detrimental /2 o’clock and bring all the ideas| in some cases highly diluted with| WS the tale of how five miners get/ point Mr. Mackenzie King was
to Canadian welfare will perish. If the British tradition, and| you've got. | water, were used in all. eee yee coal mine by a| quoted as decidedly anti-conscription
es everything decent that it stands for, has been marked by any ——— ee | su en coa slide. They are rescued | as well as the conference faction.

is one thing, it has been the spirit of fain play and veneration of MALCOLM HONOR AWARD TO BE ANNOUNCED © |Just in time, and even then one of| Mr. McDougall came forward next
the truth. It is precisely this spirit that we have denied in our ° FEBRUARY 9th. their number was dead. Prof Bennet | with the conciliatory, if inconsistent
recent withdrawal from the Canadian Students Assembly. If It has been widely agreed for some years past that the (™e***wated Pine hill on choosing) argument that as a member of the

 

   
  
      
   
  
  
   
  
  
 

ae ee b . . ° - , | moa at , : ;
_ the real reason for our withdrawal from such an organization| Malcolm Honor Award—representing the highest tribute Dal-|‘°.?U* 0" 2 Play of this type. He/ council, although favoring the C.S.A.

_ is fear of the unfavourable publicity Dalhousie will receive at|housie students can pay to a fellow student—has been receiving | "4 oe the Play had been well-|and desiring its continuance, he felt
_ the hands of the local press let us confess it, but let us not take| too little recognition and its real significance has not been fully | a a te the actors were as that because of the bad impression
Dns Seapezoat an organization whose main ideal is to work| appreciated. Realizing this to be so the Council of Students) %,04,°° ‘Re Pest of the rest of our| created by the Canada in World Af_ tor Canadian unity and a better university. Elsewhere in this | have this year embarked on a Malcolm Award recognition pro-| for th ra . i So ee ee ee hea are thi ese ee
r the president of Dalhousie has claimed that the university| gram consisting in leading articles in the Gazette culminating | ,, Se ee ere he ae ee eee
‘bulwark of freedom’. Let us hope that his words will hold| in the announcement of the Award over the radio on Feb. 9th| {0° 2uhor and he also criticized the give its support solely to the N.F.C.

ia ; oy ems 20 ee Bt ; S ie ; . / .
for this university at least. at 7.45 p.m. , audience for not being more sympa-: U.S. On this, Mr. Disher commended.
jae Se re oF Pe pier i 7 ; Continued on Page Four (Continued on Page Three)
a 7 - ara 4 yore. ov any a ba od |
ose ee , aT ala ite . on ! i “Ah ‘i ai
a pamew ea CoS) t
ae i iy ‘

vet

a Ff La i aah

5 et be
5 Ff TE

we i s “A¢} a i i i 7 « A F LS Seege oer rt cee 8) cere Ad ony Le) Peale als teed 1 . Ps, * eT y
Sse ee ee —— a cere ees sched Dadmanl clncalpt a Maye ana errata te ebeeniohe heater emamecendaesaibeetaneiniee ete tae ete

Bhp eee
Sipser wh x)
haat t }

e
e

 
 

4 a4 ’ S

  

     
    

 
       
 

Letters
To The Editor

   

5 se /1869—"THE, OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA"

  
   
     
      
      
   

286

Si : WEBSTER MACDONALD - - - - -. B-9602 The Editor,
ee ‘Editor: JOHN WINDEBANK - - - - B-4538 Dalhousie Gazette.
BE it , JACKIE CAHAN - - - - - B-3148 Deak Sir
Word ‘Sails Editor: D. CAMERON ~ = = = = ~ B-0668 NG
‘Featare Faor ‘Son uh aro Prt ato e current opinion in the MariBe Literary Edito GENEV EVE MacMATON. ane? B-9746 time Press, and on our Campus,
f > es eat aa =.) eS
a in thang Literary SOAN EhAckwoop YN cee seems to be that Mount Allison has
| P Editor: JACK MA rH WSs yuad renounced all association with the
nine” <-, ; Baan = = > = = ™ 2
aerate asae a Mevater Ma er eee ARCHIBALD - = B-3021 C.S.A. because they have discovered
« Staff Photographer: BILL TIDMARSH an anti-British attitude in it. No

Proof Editor; ROWENA BENSON - - - = = B-9746

   

one seems aware of the fact that
the Mount Allison policy of withdrawing from the C.S.A. had been
decided upon before the delegates
ever went to the Conference; and
that their reasons were economic,
not patriotic. Knowing this fact
does it not seem an attempt to
rationalize their conduct by the old
“red herring” which men have been
dragging in whenever sane reasons
could not be found.

Current opinion seems to be that
Dean Krug spoke for the college
when he voiced his opinion in the
Argosy. But when he gave it, it was
his own personal opinion, as a man,
and not official in any way as signifying the attitude of the University.
In fact the faculty of the University
consider the whole matter as rather
chiidish, or at least so I have been
informed by one member of it orally
and another by letter. They think
that if Dean Krug wished to disagree with the C.S.A. and what he

“Asti by Folin Forrest, President of Dalhousie University
at the time of Jimmy Malcolm’s death.

JAMES MALCOLM, B.A

. James Malcolm came to Dalhousie in September, 1899.
From the very first he won the respect of all who knew him.
| _ _He was as fine a type of young man as it was ever my privilege
_ to meet. During all the years he was here I never heard a
, single word uttered against him. By his courteous and respectful bearing and his attention to his work, he had the respect of
his professors, while his generous manly bearing towards all
about him made him a universal favorite with his fellow
students: Nor was it in the College alone that his influence
was felt. In the community he was largely known among the
young people, and his influence was always on the right side.
When the news of his sad death came to the city there was
universal expression of grief. Young men of all classes spoke
of him and their testimony was all the same. Every one knew
him as a young man of decided Christian character, whose life
in every way corresponded to his profession, and there were few
ung men of his age who wielded a wider or better influence.
is gifts, as a speaker were of a high order and every one
expected that he would one day occupy a commanding position
in our country. His death was in perfect keeping with his

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

speech, as long as all that is printed
or spoken is in agreement with
powers that be. They are very
tolerant in this; they even do as
much as Hitler.

It would be interesting to know
the real reason why President Barton went to Mount Allison to consult
Dean Krug, when he knew before he
went what his attitude was. Are
there no men of intelligence on our
campus whose opinion would be valid
in such an emergency? Did the
honourable President consult Dean
Tucker or some other man of opposite views than his own and Dean
Krug’s? If he didn’t, did he not try
to impose personal bias into a
campus problem? The mark of a
great man is the overcoming of personalities in public administration.

The action of President Barton
and his Council not only insinuates
that there is no intelligent opinion
on our Faculty, they insinuate that
the students of this University have

not enough intelligence, either, to!

decide problems for themselves, but
need a dictatorial group — who believe in democracy, of course—with
superior intelligence, as they possess
to decide for them. It is nice to
know that we belong to the lower
strata who must be curbed and have
our problems decided for us. It explains so many of our foolish mistakes, as the election of such a
Council.
Respectfully yours,
QUINTUZ QUIZ.

life and character. He would save his companion or die in the
attempt. It is a mysterious providence. We cannot understand it, but we know it is all right. God makes no mistakes.

found there, that his policy, if he
had been any kind of a man at all,
would have been to voice it there

 

Public Affairs Makes

 

and not when he returned to where
the C.S.A. could not defend itself.
From a man who teaches Christian
ethics in a University, that does not
seem good enough. What does not
seem to be known on this campus is
that Dr. Tucker, Dean of Arts, at

JOHN FORREST.

A finer tribute has yet to be paid to a student at Dalhousie
and in selecting the students to membership in the MALCOLM
HONOR SOCIETY, the electing committee has born in mind
the high qualities of Ji immy Malcolm. Consequently, few indeed
have been the number of students elected to the Society since | Mount Allison, wrote a letter to the
its beginning in 1927. Many of them are unknown by the/ telegraph Journal questioning the
present students attending Dalhousie, some however, are still} wisdom of Mount Allison in retiring
remembered as names or personalities. Ne in such a fashion, and debunking

There is no greater honor at Dalhousie University (much of what they had printed, but
than to be chosen to membership in the Malcolm Honor | they refused to publish his com
Report

The third annual report of the
Institute of Public Affairs has just
been published. In a very comprehensive way it describes the invaluable work that is being carried on by
the Institute of Public Affairs at this
university. In brief, the work covered comes under four heads, (1)
teaching, which includes the courses
given in Pubiic Administration at
the university; (2) extension work,
among the municipalities and pro
Society by the* students of the University. No greater
tribute could be paid to a Dalhousian than to be chosen a
member of a society to perpetuate the memory of Jimmy
Malcolm.

 

 

The following students have been
elected to the Malcolm Honor So_ ciety: |
1927—Avis H. Marshall
Fred W. MacInnis
_ 1928—Murray M. Rankin
, J. Gerald Godsoe
cp ~ Jack W. Merrit.
ea _ 1930—Arthur L. Murphy
’ 1931—F red C. Jennings
- Gertrude W. Hempill
Thomas A. Goudge
yk 1982—Robert MacG. Brown
Pav _ 1988—Charles Anderson
5, Walter C. MacKenzie
a George C. Thompson
at 19384—-Wayne McKie
eee 2 Potter Oyler
PLA. 1935—Beth Atherton
Mh Fred Wigmore
, -1936—Dib Baliem
Helen Belyea
Ernie Richardson
| Harry Sutherland
i | James Muir
Bam 1987—Gordon H. Thompson
i 1938—Edward Barnhill
1939—Irene Pentz

 

This Was
Jimmy Malcolm

 

 

Sl
.

 

 

Inauguration of the turned the following year for Theobi Maleolm Honour Society logy. During his stay at college he
: } 1927 came to be the idol of his fellow

Me : ‘ students, the life and soul of the
be ‘The Malcolm Honor Society is the | varied college clubs and social acti
as ‘outcome of a growing sentimment vities, and the captain and mainstay
| for the establishment .at Dalhousie of the football team, as well as being
of an order of merit to receive into}. excellent student.

ate membership those of our gradu- His first year in Theology had
aling, classes mNe BHOW vaomselyns hardly closed when he himself passpeaeshy 0 wee se award Bye Stic ed to Higher Service. His death
eS: ee oe was in entire harmony with his life.
F : ‘i ented. in tc wont of While swimming with a companion
i ae pa y during the summer he heard a cry.
Bk | grad A few strokes carried him to the

uation, is considered for the
award, and any number may be spot, but his friend had disappeared.
Twice Jimmy Malcolm dove, and

| chosen by the Committee of Selec[ - a Ye tet hi ne et twice he was forced to come to the
is Ye rhs, ~ 29 Waa surface. Once again he dove and
ak, ‘ ro a me Pe as a ee the waters closed over him... .
iY a parchment, is peananiid as a part Every action of Jimmy Malcolm
nae the Clase | Day Exercises. breathed the spirit with which he
It seemed entirely fitting to link made his happy sacrifice. Loyalty
with the Society, the name of the to his college and his fellows, and
ey 2: Dalhousie student who, above all a cheerful devotion of his energy—
| ~ -ethers, personified the ideal which his very life—to the cause he had
forms its cornerstone —- James Mal- in hand.
That is the Dalhousie Spirit. The
members of the Malcolm Honor So
 

colm, or Jimmy, to give him the
nae ty wie he, Mae best known
Pas his friends.

__Jimmy Malcolm spent the five
ee t : pay of his life at Dalhousie.

ie in Kate Tes 1908, he re-| whose name it takes its inspiration.

        

oes ae inne '
pa a a ee cieS tS ee ere

i\example, and Holland since the seventeenth century,

vincial civil servants, and investigation into industrial relations; (3)
‘research into municipal and provincial administration, and governpea activities in the economic
sphere; (4) publications, which include books on the Canadian economy, as well as special bulletins, and
the quarterly journal Public Affairs.
Anyone interested may procure a
copy of the report from Miss Grant,
at the Murray Homestead.

ments. They seem to be one with
their fellow paper in Halifax, in
being very lenient towards correspondence which agrees with
their own viewpoint, but rejecting all others as ‘anti’ something.
It is a sad state of affairs when a
bunch of “crack-pot” writers in
second rate newspapers can dictate
the policy of student thought. But
they are trying to doit. They believe
in freedom of the press, freedom of

_ Toa end ee ks ci sete Np an ee a
ST LL A

The University As A Bulwark of Freedom

Trans-Canada Broadcast by Dr. Carleton Stanley

 

It was an ancient saying that men make the State. Men
also make the university; and the university will not be much
better, nor much worse, than the teachers and students who
make it up.

A society which appreciates the true nature of a university
and resolves to maintain a university pure and uncorrupted, is
also a society which will fight to the last man and the last ditch
to preserve its freedom; and conversely a society that has long
preserved its freedom from political, religious, and other oppression, will grow itself either universities or institutions
similar to what we mean by universities.

Education is as vast and varied, as baffling and complex,
as life itself. That is its fascination for the wisest minds and
noblest souls in any generation of men. This higher education
conducted in the university invokes from the beginning the
idea of law, and it proceeds throughout by the application of
laws and first principles. These laws, men at their highest and
best, have discovered, and formulated; and diligently through
the maze of many errors, as well as on the straight line of
progress, have proven their truth.

It has “been said that if you will describe what the Greeks
meant by law, you will describe the whole of Greek civilization.
And many great scientists and thinkers, in sixteenth century
Poland, in seventeenth century Holland, in eighteenth century
France, and others, have stated their belief that all modern
civilization has been built up and has continued where the idea
of law, in its profoundest political and moral sense, has been
understood and maintained. So I am not merely extolling law
as a lawyer would. Nor do I wish to claim too much for the
university. But you will find, I think, if you look into it, that
the university expounds this principle of law not only in its law
faculty, but in all its departments—in science, in the history
of mankind, in every conceivable activity of man from bridgebuilding to music. No other institution in modern society has
as its duty, from beginning to end, to expound the principle
‘of law. That is the main duty of the university. It follows
that a society which jealously maintains its university will
promote a wide understanding of law.
~ Now freedom is impossible without the rule of law. That,
too, considered in the full sense, is a deep saying. But you
will remember certain things at once, namely, thit totalitarian
states which prohibit any sort of freedom, also boldly deny the
existence of law and the existence of truth. Just as you will

remember that the states, ancient and modern—Athens, for’

and
modern England—who have paid most attention to the exposition of the principle of law and to its maintenance, have

ciety are elected by virtue of their) been the states which have enjoyed the fullest measure of freepossession in some measure of the}dom. That then is what we mean by saying that the university
qualities of that great student from| is a bulwark of freedom. But it is just as true that freedom

is a bulwark of the university.

 

 

     

$$$ essen sss SSS SSS Ss sss sss sss

February 2, 1940

“You're the toast of all the regiment. ’’
“That's because | send the boys Sweet Caps,”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED

DRUGGISTS
Headquarters for Students’ Requirements

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

Ask For

FARMERS’ ICELAND BARS
A DELICIOUS REFRESHMENT

“Taste the Difference”

FARMERS’ LIMITED

HALIFAX, N.S.

 

Winter Sports
Good Appetites

then

The
Green Lantern

for good foods

407-409 Barrington St.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest
Restaurant”

It’s Smart to Eat
After The Show

The Cameo chefs are preparing your evening “snack” as
the last scene fades out at
your favorite movie. Many
theatre fans like to come to
the Cameo and discuss the
picture in comfort.

THE CAMEO

35 Spring Garden Road

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 
      
    
     
   
       
       
   
     
      
  

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

  

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus. ., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Enginesring, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics

Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses, of ee standing, leading to degrees of
» M.Se

Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses,
The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;
in the B.Se. course about $190.00 a year.

  
     

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.
 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  
  
 
    
    
    
    
     
        
      
     
      
      
      
    
       
       
      
       
     
  
     
    
    
   
     
    

   

  
     
     
     
       
      
   

page a men, — el ne hi a
on Barrington t for all your
clothing requirements,

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
ear, Sportswear and Dress
ar erg FROM RANGOON « »

 

 

ee ee

 

CHAPTER IX.

the Drunk oe
The Strange Case of the | Dalhousie’s « «
Delegates or,

Here We Go Again. 9 The Hall girls seem to miss Jean
W © Ss W Oo and Frances, as they were very ac
 

The
PIG
STY

wear.

Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Access»ries.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

 

Last week as we finished taking : tive. participants in “Wakes”...
you for a ride on the Belt Line or
a reasonable fascimile, and the conductor, otherwise known to fifth
grade students as “Con”, took time
out to circle Shirrefff Haul three
times amidst the cheers of several
shroud draped females hanging from
the windows, the No Soap Power
or Light Co. began to offer tenders
on Piccoloson Pete’s bicycle which
operates twice daily from Forrest
Hall to Pine Hill one of the most
scenic drives in Halifax at tuppence
per person per trip and room at the
back for hangovers and breif cases.

Time stumbles on and in the
meantime, by whirlwind control we
take you to the murky depths of the
Bedford Basin where sits Wubber
MacTunneled reading the Blats from
various (and recently affiliated with
the C.S.A.) colleges. While reading
he munched a bar of lifebuoy, foam- lucky enough to keep their “Satur- ‘
ed at the mouth and at frequent| It is about time the real big-shot | day Shoppings” for no wints wien Henry Birks &
intervals flung slimy curses at the|of the college was recognized, so|on Sunday enjoyed cocktails at Jol- Sons Lt d
passing codfish who just gaped at|this week we bring none other than/limore, Herring Cove and all points :
him in true Lunenburg fashion.| Walter, otherwise known as “Butch”| west. This “cardiac stimulant” is Diamond Merchants

Halifax, N. S

this is one show with an all-woman
cast that many a boy yearns to see!
* * *

What a shame there had to be a
certain formal dance this week!
Mr. Rose lost what was just threatening to come to the surface, and
disclose itself on his upper lip. How
sad; it will be another two months
before those little speed demons of
hairs get to the skin line again!

Chas. Gordon has been all too
quiet this term, we have seen little
about him in this paper. Reason:
well, the little pig made one error
in connection with a friend of his
and is taking no more chances. Research proves Ah was right when
Ah said Ah’d-a-laid a bet he couldn’t
be living so tranquil a life.

Flash — Hirtle comes through
strong. Crossman Young started
Friday night on a celebration. Tuesday morning his hundreds, nay
dozens of friends were relieved to
note a slight change for the better.
Reason: During the week-end he became a man—but more than that
he is reported to have found a bargain at Simpsons!—We are also in
Poe “atudent—"To tell the truth, I don’t|formed that an open letter to this
"4 ; 4 think of i gentleman woud be a most satisfacDoug MacKean, Arts '40—“Sure, I| tory way of telling him that his
"ld - think it’s a good column—it’s excel-| friend Hirlte has no objection to
Bs, lent—well, it’s the first thing every-| replacing the bulb he so regrettably
a body reads, isn’t it?” . broke, but that if Crossman wants
Frank Dunsworth, ist year medi-| a special one of low power and dark
“a “cal student—*Yes, I think it’s a good| hue, he must provide same himself.

WH. AT DO YOU THINK OF THE
“PIG-STY?”
aa Douglas Lyall, 2nd year Law Stubbe dent—“It’s immaterial to me — but
oe -the most popular thing in the
_ Gazette, isn’t it?”
Helen Wentworth, Research Stu‘, - dent—“The name suits it — I think
ee very dirty. ”
- “Butch” Lawson, B.Cc., 40 — “It
r _ wouldn’t be fair to give my candid
Pe i dpinion—but I wish the “little Pig”
yi would stop picking my chest-expan_ sion to pieces! You can tell him
- from me — my chest-expansion is
Re 0.K.—See?”
Bas Marjorie MacIntosh, Arts 740 —
er . Bas “Well, I haven’t any opinion—but, I
Renn, well, it’s interesting!”
Tom deBlois, Graduate Engineer—
be as “Pye only read a couple of “Pigz -Sty’s”, but having read the last one,
a feel that it should be interesting
to the student body, because of its
intimate insight into the student’s

7

  

  

Flash! Double Flash! Claude
Leighton has come out of a long
latent period with a lovely dream
from Spud Island and has been following up so closely on this contraction that even MacInnes has been

unable’ to chisel in!
i. & 8

  
 

 

 

  

For Your Valentine

Would you like a gift
with quality, distinetion, one that bespoke
sincerity and good
taste?

 
 

 
 

One of the incidents in front of
Shirreff Hall t’other night .. . this
is the way I heard it:

“Stop, dear, you’re getting me all
worked up!” And then soft music
comes rolling over the radio. ...
“Gosh, darling, hold me _ tighter.”
who was that lucky guy in the

rumble seat?
ye ¥ a

 
 

SSS SSSSSSSSSssssssiassy sessions lssnssStssietssigsesseensteessssissnssnusltensionssansnesmn
<
. .

>

 

I

  

We have them at
Birks in a wide range
of price.

 
 

&

 

The boys in the O. T. C. who were

 

  

When interviewed his only comment| Lawson. The Butcher-boy was born|also used for the preservation of
was “a loud nerts to you, sir” after|in Amherst, N. S., but has lived the} anatomical and__ biological speciwhich he arose screaming to the| greater part of his live in New| mens, so with a few more marches,
surface and swam ashore where the| Brunswick, where he got his early| Dalhousie will have a popular corps.
Filthy Fifteen were washing their| education. * * *

|
hands of the stains of the C.S.A.) After spending a few years at| The Leap Year sleigh ride staged

 

  

 

  

 

 

and drying them | on post-dated| Fredericton and Saint John high|by the “hard-up” girls of the Hall
copies of the Halifax Blat. schools, Butch came to Dalhousie in| 0m Sunday drew the usual suckers
1937 and during that college year|—but even at that “Cas” Murphy

Capitol

     
    
    
        
       
     
       
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
    
      
    
   
   
   
   
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
 
   
   
  
    
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
    
 
     
 

 
 

 

 
 

J
a —————————

 

column. No—I don’t want to be in Fragment from a phone conversa- My Girl’s A Crackpot took part in all the Freshman ac- couldn’t register a strike on his CONTINUOUS 1 TO 11
it, but I like to see other people} tion offered for what it is worth— HUidiald We steal: divided we fon; tivities. He had a stellar role in the| latest game — Kissy. Could McCul
TODAY —. SAT. —- MON,

“GULLIVER’S
TRAVELS”

In Technicolor

in it!”

«Otte ~Antoft, Public Administra
tion—“It’s a pretty horrible gossip

column, isn’t it? But I suppose that

x some peole like that sort of thing!
_ Nevertheless I go for it in a big

B. ”

Frosh Extravaganza of ’37, was on|lough have been led astray, too!

the freshman track, hockey, rugby yo Re

and basketball teams in the inter-| Glee Club show Wednesday nite:

hits. Fabs faculty league, and was also on the| The cast of “Men Are Missing”
1 , : freshman debating team of that|looks diffirent on stage than they
‘Bug MaGoogal isn’t clean, he year. do off. Why? Anyway it was a

. k di a t d . . *
HE . a a ig tar Co Vekk Guay Mr. Lawson: wea mai well laid out cast. Shirley Kirk
‘ : trick as the matronly hostess;

: o ager of the ill-fated Dalhousie bas-| ? : y oe

ee reer ne FNS all team and Secretary-Treas-| Helen Rogers being emotional, ame
uner of the D:A.A.C., and. in both Joan Blackwood, the Viennese siren

with a Cape Breton accent.
* Ba *

Leighton? Oh yes. Yes, from The
Island, I think. What’s that? Yes,
very—the last week at any rate—
every night as far as I can see.

Classmates are delighted to see by
the Daily press that Mr. Henderson
is not afraid to show himself standing up for all that right and good,
along with all the msot prominent
} |citizens. Shure we’re gonna have a
Sy a ee thish term Hughie!
” | The taxi-driver thought Leo want
eas a cab when they met “Somewhere
|in the west end’. He was most unhappy and quite voluble when he
found it impossible to catch Leo’s
attention. So much less trouble
would be in the world if taxi-drivers

but at least we are clean, my
sheeps”, quoth the pious Fretty
Barnone who was adorned in a long

  

a i

  

A Feature Length Cartoon

Tues. — Wed. — Thura.

“BROTHER RAT
AND A BABY”

Jane Bryan — Priscilla Lane
Wayne Morris - Eddie Albert

injured Bug.

“There you go again, you big a e :
Brute? ie d Petty the harrased positions displayed great enthusiasm

* and _rare business acumen. He ae :

played all inter-faculty sports for the ane = SE ee egy ene .
’. : é at are you going to sing?’
nine to ten in the morning ? If he SHE ICCT MS. society and as a flashy “ Anything—what is it?” :
en doe bin Siawicn: Java ana he hurdler was a point scorer on the

: “Glory, Glory for Dalhousie.”
will last all day, (advertising plug). Dalhousie track team. At the same fe * * F

After the motherly Fretty had com-, ™e, Engineering ’40 chose him to

forted poor Petty he led the Filthy | Pe lass treasurer.

Fifteen towards the basement of the} After losing a hard fought con
gym, where they were going to tear | test for the presidency of the D. A. Arnell was sure to go

apart the ©.S.A. delegates amidst|A-C., he has this year assumed the :

the loud cheers of Auto Antuft,| Tole of member at large for the| woe pave bsseail tebbicsaies. this hones

aided by Major Catfish. same organization, and has still re-| o5¢ Cagg society catia ea
As the Major and Fretty felt their | ‘ined his managership of the bas-| the Jast fow week-ends. This is a

way through the damp blackness of | k¢tball team which, he says, should| oac, of young gentlemen who habit
the ghastly cellar towards Roy’s| i!" one hundred per cent more ually frequent the restaurants of

co-ed and burst into a flood of tears.
Does your prof act like that from

  

iy; "The Neve Scotia Alpha of Phi
| 5 Delta Fraternity received its charter in 1930, at the same time as
_ charters were granted to three other| could — that a man does not want
_ Canadian chapters. It had formerly|to drive when he is walking on air
been a local fraternity, Kappa Alpha| Yes, Bird blushes beautifully but
P Phi, whose members formed the| the sudden change from Green to
charter members of the present|red has been too much for us,
chapter. Among the local alumni| chameleon that we aren’t, so Goodare such well-known members as| bye now!
- Ralph ‘Kelly” Morton and S. W.

 “Barny” Archibald, who organized

COMING FEB. 16th
“GONE WITH

 
 

Butcher found a little lamb;
Took her to a Glee Club show,
And everywhere that Butcher went,

 
 

ay

iF D..
er
”
=

* *

i

 

       
   
     
   
 

  

DISILLUSION

 

 
  

Shoppe, startled freshmen scuttled|$@™mes this year than they did last/ tis fair town on Sundays between New Method
eS the first Dal band, and Bree wrote By K.R across the slimy floor at their feet.| Y©2*:_ as the midnight hour and 6 a.m. and Watch
- the words to the famous “Dalhousie} Suddenly the horrible voice of du| Besides being an active participa- | Peappear quietly from nowhere in Cleaning 1
Dream Girl”, which was composed) This is the dream that once I made,| ¥.1o.*yent the air, as a matter of |r at the student forum meetings

Guaranteed 1 year (
Main Springs, $1.00 3
- a

OXFORD

Jewellery Store
575 Barrington St

the late afternoon to sympathize
with a Bromo Seltzer. Some have
even taken an interest in the town’s
latest Dine and Dance spot, the
“Gay Paree” ... so, folks, we’ll
have to move the little Pigs from
“Greasy Ike’s” and “Sloppy Sue’s”
to get a line on the activities at
these new hot spots.

Narrow Margin Sustains—| «i

.

Continued from Page One

hay Don Murray, then a pledge at| And painted with silver,
the fraternity. And trimmed with jade,
“Kelly” Morton was, in addition,| And studded with gems.
. very active in the successful tours| This was my dream.
Mg of the Dalhousie Glee Club and was
i instrumental in the establishment'These are the shatters that now
a: -of “Pharos”, the Dalhousie Year Yemain.
Be: Book. Orton Hewat was a member Price of my dream, .
* of the Dalhousie football team|!’m filled with pain.
_ which toured Canada some years| The gold that I see, is only brass,
or ago, The precious gems are simple glass.
et In other fields of student activity; My dream has fallen
Be Phil Delts have displayed their} And broken lies
ability and enthusiasm, and _ boast| Lifeless in front of my tearless eyes.
a among their members those who
have at one time or another held| Captain V. Oland, and Lieutenants
the offices of President of the Stu-|R. Merchant, R. Buckley, G. Rob. Be dents’ Council, Editor of the Gazette,|ertson, D. MacGregor, and J. Roy

and ¢aptain of the football team. |4Te in the Army, and the Air Force

fact it took a ten-year lease, and Walter has held almost numberless
seemed to be coming from a grama-| ther minor student offices.

phone with buttons on the front) He is a Lieutenant in the Dalof it. housie C.O.T.C., which definitely

“Halt,” it said, “What are you | clears up this Sargy Bawlson stuff,
dntug. heve 2” and is a member of Phi Delta Theta

“We were waiting for a street-car | PTaternity.
and it’s very cold out,” babbled |
Fretty.

“You must die with the delegates”
shouted the gramaphone.. “Under )
the floor is a fime bomb set at 4.32| 1m, saying that this was the sort of |
ia Con iglinll he. bisated”. treatment the issue should have re| ceived from the council, instead of |
the personal nature -of its case!

:
against th S.A. its ins
now, your time bomb has fizzled; te eet and its insinua- |
like the C.S. A. why hasn’t it! ;

at
Banteay? : On these grounds he urged censure | K I N LL E. Y : 5 D R U G S a O R E S

,of the council. The question was
cack]- |

{
¢

 

———

 

 

ULNA NAAN DASHA AA HE U!ULUUUS0U00UD DARE EET.

WHEN YOU NEED:

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

 

 

 

 

Fretty frantically fumbled for his
pocket ben, and cried, “It’s 4.35

 

   

 

 

 

 

a 1m 1986 2 charter was granted to boasts such members as Squadron ; * you’re ee too,’ thereupon ealled for and a standing | LT TREN
the Halifax Alumni Chapter, and|Leader Charles Hewat, A. Bigelow, | © p Cte and swung out | vote taken. sere iat re |

"since then it has rendered active|G. Macleod, J. Critchley, and G.|0" “SeatterBrain”, Whereupon se Gazette D | : Re:
and yaluable assistanee to the local | Kinley. icine ee ie aes pana? Sep are * ee . eee | There Is an Underwood
chapter. in extra-curricula activities at the Belt Line Limited and given a With the business of the mee ting | Pp t bl 
+ The war, however, has called to| Dalhousie Phi Delta Theta is well ticket to an unknown destination. _ disposed of, this worthy newsorgan ortadle Typewriter for

Well, it doesn’t look very good. Was astounded to find itself the ob- |
Fizzleque was last seen sitting be-'| ject of an attack by Mr. Ormiston,
side Aunt Boogie who was third on| who was still.on his feet, charging
the left at the Glum Club tryouts.) partisanship and pointing to the|

Will we forget the C.S.A. next|editors associationship with the,
week? Will Rufus Rayne solve the! “anti” group when the meeting,

Eivery Purse and
Purpose.

 

_ the colors many of its members.|Trepresented by many, including
- “Roary” Black in hockey, “Butch”
Lawson as manager of the basketball team and member at large of
the D.A.A.C.; Bob Walter as president of the Engineering Society;

Insist on

- Donovan’s Beverages

15 < Different’ Flavors . 45 Underwood Elliott

Fisher Limited

 

. Ww. H. DONOVAN Evatt Merchant as boxing manager; mystery?. Who the hell cares? evincing no desire to hear him, pass- |
. ty ed Mr. Burchill’s adjournment mo-|
45 GRANVILLE ST. B-6821 Jack Reynolds as business manager bot Led cweWle Lait oh. | 165 HOLLIS ST. HALIFAX, N. 5.

 

 

of the Glee Club; Bob Mussett as
president of the Freshman Class,
and John MacInnes, who is a mem|ber of the Students’ Council. These t
‘members and others in former years Ae ge them at Boutilier’s
|| illustrate the support and college pares Se Ven — oe
pe which the fraternity has BOUTILIER’S

) Biven to Dalhousie. BEDFORD ROW

    

EEE ER

     

Visit Our Oyster Bar
Fresh Oysters, served just like

   

Shaves - Hair Cuts - Shines ||
The Best of Service
“Student Business a Specialty |}

There’s
PUBLICOVER’S

    
     

 

.
° .

a eS tiers
ee ee = 
Always a Good Show at the CASINO

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — You'll Enjoy It!

 

RING G. can ROAD | LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

 

 

 

 

i ~ m Fy ; airy ae via. il v cal ee ~ ms ~~ : ' be
L j : . at “tg i é 7 ee 5
wail Lite’ enlad = te iae.. a Mat Wie Ne Sh é rr Ma : 
‘ wads § > ¥ “"
ad et Pos 1S ie he Ba whe UK Sp” Ee Pe ep re pe eg é a NYO: “ m4 a4 ‘ af 5 a

 
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
     
   
     
 

ta

_ Gon, Irwin, Robinson; forwards,

pamouste ‘Cubs ohened their cam_ ~paign for city intermediate basketball honors with a fine victory over
ot Andrew’s last Thursday evening.
The Dal boys showed a marked
- Superiority over appearances in the
and look like sure conthe title. Last Saturday
a tight 37-33 decision to
Y.M.C.A. squad, but in ousting
gold and black team, the associa
tion squad was forced to use members of their senior squad.

Interfaculty hockey got off to a
good start last Monday when
Medicine and Dentistry hooked up
in the league opener. This is the
first time Dentistry has had a
team in several ‘years, and the

_ Meds were lucky to scrape through

with a 2-1 victory. In two of the
three periods, Dentistry had definitely the better of the play as they
swarmed around the Med goal.

It looks as if Dalhousie’s entry in
the city hockey league is through.
After. making a fine showing in all
games played this season, the team
went down to a 9-4 defeat last Monday before the Air Force sextet, and
thus lost their chance of grabbing
a playoff berth. Now it is expected
“that the Tigers will try their luck
‘at intercollegiate hockey before
hanging up their skates for the

Efforts are being made to create
interest in box lacrosse, a game
which has never been played at
Dalhousie but which Physical
Director Ralston hopes to inaugurate as soon as possible. If and

eo when the tough game does start

if sufficient interest is shown by

: pg idents, it will be carried out of

doors next fall and played on the
football field.

Attention is called to the circulars
which Coach Ralston has sent to all
upper classmen, asking their cooperation in forming gymnastic and
other classes, which will give them
plenty of exercise. If you upperclassmen have not yet received a
circular with a list of the proposed
classes, you will be given one at Mr.
Ralston’s office. All those who have
‘received circulars are asked to mail
replies as soon as possible.

Interfac Hockey

 

Medicine won the opener in the
interfaculty hockey loop at Dalhousie last Tuesday when they handed Dentistry a 2-1 defeat at the
Forum.

The game was fast and cleanly
played. The only first period score
came shortly after the period opened
_when Baldwin counted from a mixup in front of the nets to put Medicine out front. The rest of the
period was scoreless.

The second period was also fast
and cleanly contested, and shortly

after the period opened Marshall

counted for Dentistry but referee
Munro called the play back as offside. There was no further scoring
in this period.

Meds opened the scoring in the
third period when Harrigan scored
on a corner shot to put Medicine up
2-0. Several minutes later Marshall

- counted on a pass from Merkeley to

make the score 2-1. Medicine managed to retain their one-goal lead
for the remainder of the game.

‘Medicine: Goal, Hirtle; defence,
Plumer, Downey, Squires; forwards,
Baldwin, Tonning, Stewart, Harrieae Kenny, Shirley.

‘Dentistry: Goal, Ball; defence,

   
  
    
  

aay

a we
et es

a

Dal bewtemen -- |

Continued from Page One

Dal defence tightened up and Dal |

began to crawl back closer to the

|Tars as Seaman and Hart did some
{fine shooting. With about five min
utes left the score was 27—26 for

|the Navy, but baskets by Arnett

and Fraser gave them -a 5 point

jlead, while the best Dal could do

was a basket by Seaman.

Bey Piers refereed.

Navy—Hatfield 5, Walker, Arnett
9, Killam 2, Bates 6, E. Fraser,
Fraser 9.

Dalhousie—Martin 3, Shanehouse
2, Seaman 7, McKimmie 2, Hart 5,
Dunbrack 2, Wilson 5, McRitchie,
Smith 2.

* a 6

In the second game of the evening, Dal Grads had little difficulty
in stopping the Acadia Axemen.
The first part of the game was
close, the Acadia team opening the
scoring and going into a 6—0 lead.
Led by Don Bauld, who made his
first appearance in senior basketball in several years, the Grads began to score and shortly after the
midway mark took the lead. The
Acadia squad could not find the
basket after the first 10 minutes of
the game, and at half time the
Grads had a 19—14 lear.

During the second part of the
game, the Grads tried to slow down
the game in an effort to retain their
lead and their efforts met with success. The only time they were in
danger was shortly after the start
of the second period, when the Axemen cut the lead to 2 points. From
then on, close checking by the
Grads on the defensive and sharpshooting by Wilson and Bauld gave

|the Grads a 10 point lead which

they never relinquished.

Don Bauld was easily the outstanding man on the floor, as he
gathered 12 points. Barr of Acadia
also had 12 points and played a
very effective game, but was banished in the second period for fouls.

Bev Piers refereed.

Grads—Barry 2, Creace, Spencer,
Simmonds, Wilson 7, DeBlois 3,
Bauld 12, MacIntosh 5, MacDonald.

Acadia—Cameron 6, Titus, Morton 4, Myers, Barr 12, Brannen 2,
Bayne 1, Cox.

© « 4
Fisticuffs

Under the able tutelage of “Two
Ton” Abe Becker, Dalhousie’s leather
pushers are rapidly being whipped
into shape in preparation for the
Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing
meet to be held at St. F. X. in early
March. Almost all weights are
represented and the university trials
around the last of the month should
see a night of fast, skillful action.

For the past few weeks Coach
Becker has been concentrating on
physical condition and onlookers last
night saw Cy. Kempston, Harold
Gillis, Jerry Kovan and others work
through several snappy rounds at
top speed. All rookies at the game
before turning out this term, Kempston, Gillis and Kovan are beginning
to shape into championship material.
Kempston, in particular, has developed a straight left which would worry
the best of them, and also packs a
wallop with his right whenever he
sees an opening.

Basketball

Two games were played in the
Dalhousie Interfaculty Basketball
League Tuesday. In the first match
Law took an easy 40—29 victory
from Arts and Science, while in the
second match King’s handed the
league-leading Frosh a 21—13 defeat. Both games were fast and
well-played, the Law-Arts game being a little on the rough side, however.

King’s—Forsyth 8, Martin 9, Drillon, Nowe 2, LeMoine, MacAlden,
Boite.

Frosh—Smith, MacNeil 8, Graham
4, Mosher, MacKenzie 1.

Law—Storey 2, Hutton, Hutchins
12, Trites 8, Piercey 14, Hanway 2,
Murray 2, Macdonald.

Arts and Science — Fraser 10,
Burchell 3, Harrison 1, Whyte, Vail
15.

eee i re Bre: a re rp the Sage Eas See ame eee ye ined we te
; <

a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

te ee ee

GIRLS’ SP ORT Collegians Hold Two Period

Lead; Lose Out in Third

The final game of the Halifax intermediate hockey league

 

Tomorrow the Dalhousie girls play
their first intercollegiate game up
at Acadia, and although both teams
have lost a lot of their last year’s
players there is lots of new material
and the teams ought to be pretty
evenly matched.

The Dal team has been practicing
furiously under the able coaching of

T.| Miss Wray, and here’s hoping they

make a good showing on Saturday
against Acadia. Those girls on this
year’s team are: Joan Blackwood
(Captain), Carly Sullivan, RetaHarrison, Barbara Schwartz, Kay Hicks,
May Manning, Mary Johnson, Mary
MacKeigan, and Daphne Clarke.

The next game scheduled in this
series will be on the 9th of this
month against U.N.B. at the Dal
gym. This will be the first time tne
Dal team has played U.N.B. and
they are looking forward to it very
much.

At a basketball meeting last week
it was decided that first team players should play on interclass leagues
if needed. The reason-for this was
that if first team players were cut
out of the interclass league some of
the teams in the league would suffer from lack of players. This is the
first time for this plan and we hope
it works satisfactorily, because interclass games are important.

So far there have been two interclass games—very good ones. The
first was the Sophs vs. JuniorSeniors, with the Sophs coming out
the victors, and the second was the
Freshette A vs. Freshette B. Although rough, this game was fast
and showed good playing on both
sides, the teams being very evenly
matched. The B team finally won
out by one basket, the score being
24—22,

 

The annual Dal students’ badminton tournaments have started and
we're glad to see so many names
up. It seems that more and more
people are playing badminton and
by the look of those freshette classes of Miss Wray’s we're going to
have a lot of good players.

We have heard it rumored that
the D.A.A.C. have decided to make
badminton a minor sport. If this
comes through the D.G.A.C. should
certainly follow their example.
Those team players do a lot of work
and a little recognition would help.

“Y” Takes Cubs

ae re eee

Although outscoring their opponents 17—15 in the final half, Dalhousie Cubs were unable to overtake a six point lead scored against
them in the first period, and the
Y.M.C. A. intermediates walked off
with their third straight victory of
the loop in a scheduled game played
at the association gymnasium Saturday night.

The game was rough from, start
to finish and Referee Doug Crease
had his hands full handing out
fouls. The association quintet opened the scoring when Doubleday capitalized on a foul shot, and from
this point on they managed to main
The play throughout the game
was close, with Dalhousie carrying
the play to the “Y’”. Mennie: and
Nicolle combined nicely in the first
half to put the “Y” out front, but
MacRitchie and MacKenzie came
through with baskets to put the
Cubs in the running. Both teams
played rather ragged ball, the Cubs
passing attack failing to click because of close guarding by the “Y”
cagers. At half time the “Y” boys
had a 22—16 lead.

Dalhousie — Charman 8, Lyall 6,
Stone, Bundy 7, MacKenzie 5, Anderson 2, Stewart 5, MacRitchie 8.

Y. M. C. A. — MeGill, Evans <3,
Thomas, Nicolle 11, Mennie 6, Doubleday 9, West 2, Macdougall, Mitchell 6, Croucher.

saw the men of the R.C.A.F.

exchange flying machines for

flying skates as they shot down Dal’s hockey hopefuls to the
tune of 9-4. The first two periods saw Dalhousie holding an
edge but this disappeared in a third stanza nightmare that saw

the bird-men ram six goals past Munro in the Dal nets.

Joe

MacDougall was best man for the college squad as he garnered
three points on a goal and two assists, Roary Black John
Churchill-Smith, and George Collins were the other Tiger goal
getters with John Dickey, Deb Macdonald, Bill Thomas and
Norbie Grant having one assist each.

The opening minutes of the game
saw both sides trying attacks in turn
which failed to click. Midway in this
period Dal ganged the Air Force
defences and Joe MacDougall lifted

one in from the short side on a/'|

three way pattern with assists going
to Thomas and Grant. A penalty to
Churchill-Smith resulted in the Air
Force trying a power play but this
baékfired as the Tigers broke fast
and Roary Black coasted in to drive
a hard shot to the far upper corner
to put the gold and black pucksters
two up. Bain Munro in the Dal nets
was forced to make several brilliant
stops as the flyers roared in to bomb
him repeatedly with hard rubber. At
the 19-minute mark John ChurchillSmith scored a pretty goal on a pass
from MacDougall as the wingless
ones again showed fine offensive
form.

Shortly after the second period
MacDonald was penalized and seconds later Ken Mitchell also drew a
pass to the cooler, leaving Dal shorthanded by two men. As a result of
these penalties the Airmen got their
first goal, but as soon as Dalhousie
regained strength they got this one
back, George Collins bouncing one
in on MacDougall’s pass. Midway
in the period the score became 4-2
for Dalhousie as the birdmen netted
their second counter. Thus inspired
they played five men up as they
sought the equalizers Dal raided
often bu the Air Force back-checked
relentlessly and a quick attack
brought them within striking distance as they beat Munro from close
in when the Tigers failed to clear.
The period ended with Dal pressing
for a greater advantage.

The fateful third period saw the
Tigers drop their offensive game for
a defensive one and the tireless
sharp-shooters of the service capitalized to rap six goals past Munro
who was often left uncovered. The
tying goal came immediately after
play resumed as Bain failed to spot
a shot that came through a maze of

 

IN INTERMEDIATE

Flashing a nice scoring attack,
Dalhousie Cubs defeated King’s
cagers by a score of 55-18 in a
scheduled City Intermediate Basketball match played at the Dal gym.

The Cubs started to roll in the |
points from the start of the game!
and the issue was never in doubt.
With Charman, MacRitchie, and
Stewart shooting well, Dalhousie
clicked from the start and at half
time had a 31-8 lead.

The second half was almost a
repetition of the first as Dalhousie
outscored King’s 24-10. Led by Don |
Anderson, who accounted for eight
points in this half, the Cubs made
few mistakes in around the basket,
while King’s, who put-up a good|
fight, were weakened by the loss of |
Forsythe, who left the game with a}
sprained ankle. |

King’s—Forsythe 4, MacAlden 1, |
Martin 8, Walter, Stubbs 1, Le-|

'

 

 

 

Moine, Howard 4.

Dalhousie — Bundy 8, Stone 2, |
Charman 12, Anderson 10, Mac-!
Ritchie 9, Stewart 14. !

:
:
:

GLEE CLUB

There will a Glee Club Show on
Wednesday night, Feb. 7, at 8.15.
There will be a one-act play and a
musical revue.

  

CUBS DEFEAT KING’S

players. The deadlock was broken
as Cowley, star centre for the avia
tors, broke in fast to fire a shot into| ~~

the drapes.
Force gave

A penalty to the Air
the Tigers

front of the net and failed to add to
their total.

At this point in the| collegiate

February 2, 1940

Pinehill, Delta Gamma—

Continued from Page Une

thetic toward the actors and their
play.

Earnest Barratt excelled himself
as Joe. He gave the audience some
real acting and not just a repetition
of some lines he had learned by
heart.

Alex MacIntosh as Peter, was
good too, but then so was the whole
east.

It is a pity the play didn’t have
some better lines in it.

Summing up, the evening
pretty much of a success, but we stil!
think that Prof. Bennet gave, as he
always does, the best entertainment
of them all.

was

 

half minutes left to play on an Air

another; Force power-dive that made the
chance but they had hard luck in)

count read 9-4.
Next week the Dalhousie intersquad goes into action

game the superior condition of the| and advance notices claim that this

Air Force men told heavily as the

time we have a winner. How about

Tigers tired. Two quick goals sent|some support fans?

the Dal squad into a spin and when |

Dal Line-up: Goal, Munro; de
they tried to recover the Airmen | fense, M. MacDonald, W. MacDonald,

broke away in formation to make|
the red light blink again and the!
score stood at 8-4. The final score
of the game came with one and a

Ken Mitchell; centres, Thomas,
| Churchill- Smith; wings, Collins,
' Fetterly, MacDougall, Dickey, Grant,
Black.

 

 

éaionia Value,

|
Fi
Oxfords

5.50

Men and young men will like
| the range of smart styles of| fered in the EATONIA line
of oxfords! ... These models
suitable for dress and general wear and they’re all
made of good quality leathers
in plain and grained finishes.
Black and brown. See the
EATONIASY’ before selecting
a new pair of shoes!

 

EHATON’S Shoe Dept.

—Second Floor

|

 

|
Eatonia | |
|
|
|
:

 

4

|

2
CO

:

For Men

 

DELICIOUS

APPETIZING

Neilson’:

 

“THE BEST CHOCOLATE MADE.

 

 

 
