      

MAESTRO
WANTED!

There are
Saxes, Clari
nets, Tenors,
Baritones,
Altos waiting
for you in The
Dal Band.

 

 

No. 3

SDAY

AMENDMENT

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 20, 1939

ITAL BUSINESS FOR TUE

     

oop ees ,

    

 

*

 

Mee
oy) .

IMPRESSIVE | SOLONS MEET

   
  
 

fi ; a BIG WIN

tf r fs

~ Dalhousie Tigers are now sitting
WNewtox the City Senior Rugby League
; as a result of a crushing 16-3 victory
ae over the United Services’ entry in a
regular scheduled match played on
- Dal’s home field last Saturday. The
i gold and black team showed great
power, speed, and aggressiveness, to
win the most impressive victory so
_ far in their bid for title honors.
- Dal kicked off and pushed the play
_ deep into the Services’ zone. Shortly
after the kick-off, with the Dal

¥ _ three-quarter line clicking well, Solly
_ Chernin attempted a field goal, at
ti the ball sailed wide of the posts. |
From a serum on the Services’ 20-/

Ws

Pe yard line, the ball passed to Don
McNeil, who was playing his first
_ senior game with the Tigers. McNeil
ran until tackled, and slipped a short
pass to Marty MacDonald, who
_ crashed over the cnt to give the

 
 

That august body, the Council of
the Students, held a stormy session
on Wednesday evening in the Men’s

Common Room in the Arts Building.

The chief business for the evening

was the presentation of the budgets
for the year of the various societies

on the campus. According to custom,
the meeting began by the reading of

| the minutes of the last meeting, |
| following which the meeting was told |

that the full holiday asked for by |

}

 

the D.A.A.C. at the last meeting had | |

been granted by the Senate on the)
recommendation of the Council.
report of the Students’
Dance was then read.

After these preliminaries, the seri- |
ous business of the meeting began.
The Glee Club budget came first,
presented by Henry Reardon, the
new president. He asked for a
blanket budget to cover six shows,
with a certain amount of flexibility
on the amount for each show, and

jinstead of an itemized account of

ae ne | each show to be presented now when

    
  

rds, the | Services’ icenates
d the Bengal attack with
es ‘Kicking to touch. Midway
through the first period, the United
squad ran the ball on a nice play to
_ Dal’s 10-yard line, where they were
_ forced out. Awarded a penalty kick
F on the Dal 25-yard line, the Ser__-viees’ kicker fell short of his mark,
and Johnny Bird relieved the pres| sure with a nice kick to touch at
-- mid-field.

Dalhousie were following up kicks
fast, and Don MacNeil carried the
_ ball to the Services’ 3-yard line, but
_. Arnott, who played a brilliant game
at flying-half, retrieved the ball and

fe got off a long kick to touch. From
a play at mid-field, Don Storey ran
the ball to the United Services’
- ‘thirty-yard line, where Referee
m - Davidson called a scrum. The ball
_ passed cleanly from the scrum to the
»_-‘Dal backfield, but was fumbled.
zm Running in fast, Rod Ideson picked

up the loose ball, and passed to Solly
Chernin, who crossed the line close
_ to the flag. MacRitchie’s attempt to
convert from a difficult angle failed.
The Services’ took on a new lease
of life, forcing the play and keeping
_ the ball well insidé the Dalhousie
i 25-yard line, and on one occasion
_ Bird was forced to safety the ball.
_ Arnott and Chernin stood out well at
their respective flying-half positions.
Just before the end of the first half,
the Services were awarded their
second penalty kick, but the ball
failed to split the uprights. The
i ee first period ended with the Services,
led by Jim Arnott, carrying an asDei} peeaenied on page 4)

NOTICES! :

e : i: FRESHMEN TONIGHT, 7.30
First rehearsal for the Freshi a man Show. All Freshmen must be

    
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
    
  
    
   
  
  
    
      
   
  
  
  
 
    
      
 
    

bs

By

 

 

YEAR BOOK
oplic: 3 will be received for
"Sender, Oct. 22, at 2 p.m., by

it was not definitely known exactly
| what those six shows would be, Mr.

Reardon proposed that an itemized
report on what was spent be presented to the Council within a week
after each show. ‘The Council approved ,and the Glee Club budget
was passed, after what seemed much
unnecessary discussion.

The D.A,.A.C. budget was next
presented by the president, Ralph
Plumer. Henry Ross explained the
budget system: under which the
D.A.A.C. has been operating for the
past three years. There was much
discussion about the amount budgeted for in badminton as compared
with the amount spent last year, and
the Council decided that the budget
should be cut: The question arose
as to why the students injured in
athletics could not be taken care of
by the Students Health Service, and
an investigation was proposed. The
hockey budget was also questioned,
and there followed a lengthy and
heated argument on this point. The
D.A.A.C. budget was finally passed,
with the exception that the hockey
budget was to be deferred until the
D.A.A.C. should present an itemized

‘estimate.

Inez Smith next presented the
Gazette budget, and on the basis of
the figures she presented, it was
passed almost without question.

The Delta Gamma budget was
presented by the president, Joan
Blackwood. Although the figure
asked for showed an increase over
that of last year, the meeting considered that the expenses were justified, and the budget was passed.

There was more doubt concerning
the Band budget, which came up
next, because the performance of the
Band so far has not been impressive.
The feeling of the Council was expressed by Bud Macdougall, who
said, “We love the band, but we must
have results!” It was felt, however,
that the Band should not be discouraged, so the budget was passed
with amendments.

The last business considered by the
Council was the appointment of a
representative to the Bookstore

The |

Council | )

 

“IF YER CAN FOIND A BETTER ’OLE ’OP TO IT!”

Dalhousie
Medical Library

Dalhousie has a new Medical libra-| pedestrian activity,
ry and one of which it may well be, Scene of a mock war on Saturday |
proud, Conveniently situated on For-| evening at

rest Campus, the Library was open
‘ed on Wednesday, Aug. 30, the last | darkness with orders to capture the

day of the Medical Refresher Course.

|

About a hundred doctors gathered |

before the building, while Dr. Curry,
one of Dal’s oldest living graduates,
standing on the threshold of the
door declared the Library formally
open. The guests
town, followed him into the building,

where the president of the Univer- |

sity, Dr. Stanley, addressed a few
well-chosen words to the assembly.

Tea was served on the lawn in frent}

of the Library. It was a beautiful,

warm sunny day.

very informal and most enjoyable.
To appreciate the building, one

, many from out of'

The affair was}

 

 

should go up to the mezzanine and |

there take a glance around. The
room is well proportioned with a
vaulted ceiling. The walls are tinted
a soft shade of green which blends
beautifully with the dark oak furniture. In the center of the room,
surrounded by the reading desks, are
periodical cases of an original and
attractive design. The large windows
are hung with becoming drapes.
On the mezzanine itself, the historical collection is’ kept. Here a
large table and chairs provide a
reading room for the faculty.

There are about 17,000 books in
the library. Students have free access to the stacks, some of which are
on the main floor while the others
are on the lower floor. Here there
are two study rooms and six carrells — Carrells?

appeared when he returns.

any way do justice to the new Med.
Library. Drop in some time and
take a look for yourselves. The

|

Little cubicles,| adian Unity. Miss Walker’s speech
provided with a chair and combined! was well received.

desk and bookshelf. A great con-|
venience to the student who may|crisis and its threat to democracy,
reserve one and have books, ete.,)a large number of speakers gave
knowing that they will not have dis-! gave their views. The C.C.F. stand
| was presented, as well as that of the
Such a brief account doesn’t in, pacifist, of those who are enlisted,

Mock War Saturday College Under Fire
The Dalhousie “Maginot line”, |

constructed in sessions like the one |

; ¢ i aie
pictured above, when local O. T. C. | | Like most of the social workers

who have returned from the orient,
zealots turned from sedentary te

will be the

 

 

|C.A. Secretary, on furlough from

7.30, when the King’s R China, interviewed on Tuesday, spoke |

unit goes into action under cover of | jin g

| activities with which he has bee

entrenched Dalhousie unit’s position. | | close contact. ;

Perhaps. the most spectacular

A ‘student enrollment of 300 men| y

and a post-grad corps of 75 men are | pene: World's
| Mr. Stewart, are those of the Com-|

now going through their paces un- |

der Major Cattley’s Aipadiion |munist University at Yenan, where

'two thousand students are
Youth Council

of |

 

on” in the most adverse circumstances, caves» having been dug for |

literally “underground” sessions of

these zealous students. In _ that

Planned southern district of China, where

roads have been worn down as deep |

Last Wednesday “night, at the Y./as twelve feet into. centuries of |

M.C.A., some forty persons met to
hear Miss Kirene Walker give a report on the Youth Congress, held in| |of the New China. Christians and
Winnipeg last June and to - -discuss | Communists are combining efforts to
the possibility of forming a Youth| produce leadership for the rising
Council in Halifax. Under the | generation.
chairmanship of Mr. Bernard Gra-| Asked concerning the part of
ham, a discussion was afterwards | |students in the Chino-Japanese War
held on the statement of policy of | Mr. Stewart replied that many stuthe Canadian Youth Congress in the | dents have gone to help organize the
present war. peasants in non-cooperation and
Miss Walker, in giving her im-| guerilla warfare with the Japanese,
pressions of the Congress held in| byt by far the greater number of
June, stressed the amount of agree-|them, remembering the old Chinese
ment finally obtained on a number! proverb to the effect that you don’t
of points, even though so many dif-| turn good men into soldiers, and the
ferent points of view were expressed. | advice of the Generalissimo to “Stay
She said that she had also been im- | jn the colleges,” are continuing their
pressed by the high level of intelli-| studies with a determination that
gence among the delegates and the | speaks much for the nation’s future.
extent of their knowledge. She gave Telling of one University, which,
an outline of the different topics with students and professors had
discussed, some of which were: Stu-| moved hundreds of miles west in a
dent in Agriculture; Student in In-| two month trek during the winter,
dustry; Student in Education; Can-| the Y.M.C.A. secretary told enthusiastically of the sacrifices being made
in the name of education and the
vital part that student volunteers
are playing in the life of their beleaguered land. When buildings are
bombed and books destroyed the
professors speak from out of their

In the discussion on the present

 

and of the anti-imperialistic group.
Another topic which evoked heated
argument was conscription.

Young People’s Society, to hear Dr.
Sexton speak on “Youth and the
World Today”. Discussion will fol
Will R. Stewart, international Y.M. |

lowing terms of Chinese student |

student. activities, said |

 

MOOTED

An exceptionally important meeting of the Student Body is to be
held in the Chemistry Theatre at 12
noon on Tuesday. The agenda to be

_discussed falls under three main
‘heads: (1) amendments to the Constitution; (2) statement of expenditures; (8) discussion of student
problems. That all may come to this
meeting with a full -knowledge of

what is to be discussed, the proposed

amendments are presented as follows:—

Article 4, See. 4: Add: “Preference
shall be given those candidates with
previous experience on the Council.”

Sec. 7—New Section: “The Council

f the students shall have jurisdiction to deal with student organizations whose policies are not, in the

opinion of the Council, in the best
interests of the Student Body and

'to take such action and make such
recommendations as

it may deem
expedient.”

Article 8, Sec. 5—Add: ”The Council shall appoint the chairman of the
committee.”

Article 9, Sec. 4—Add: “Provided
that the eects of the Council
shall be authorized to call meetings

of the Student Body or Council of

'the Students on shorter notice if
deemed necessary by the Executive

n iN} owing to exceptional circumstances.”

Section 8—New Section: “The Sec_retary-Treasurer shall have on hand
at every meeting of the Council of

| the Students a recognized book on

re | Parliamentary Procedure.”
“carrying |

Article 14, Sec. 1— Revision: “It
shall be the privilege of the Council

_| of the Students to award a gold “D”
| to any person who has rendered suf| ficiently worthy services to the Stu
| dent Body to warrant such an award,
|and who would not be eligible for a

| similar award from another society.’
hard-packed dust, these bomb-proof |

| Shelters harbour the coming makers |

Article 4, Sec. 1—Revision—‘The
Council of the Students shall consist
of the President and Vice-President
of the Student Body and 13 representatives elected . . shall be changed
to read: “The Council of the Students shall consist of the Student
Body and representatives e ected.”

memories and experiences, and move
to whatever dingy unheated huts are
available.

A most encouraging picture of a
true future democracy in China was
evoked by Mr. Stewart’s words as he
described the last decade of student
activity among the peasants. Feeling
a sense of social responsibility far
more keenly than students on this
continent appear to, student vacations are spent working among the
peasants, creating enthusiasm for
the Chinese Nationalist movement
and undertaking the great work of
teaching elementary lessons in common sanitation and duties of citizenship. A contrast that could not help
but strike one, remarked this
twenty-nine year resident of China.

An interesting fact mentioned by
Mr. Stewart in the interview was
that H. H. Kung, the present premier
of China, is a Christianized descendant of the great Confucius family,
now in its 72nd generation.

Mr. Stewart was present for the

   

Committee. Frank Johnson was| Library is open every day, except} A meeting will be held next low; the Youth Council project may} Y.M.C.A. Anniversary ~celebration
igned, M. M. Rankin,| chosen by acclamation. The meeting | Saturday from 9 to 5.30, and 7.30. Thursday night at 8 o’clock, under| be discussed-for a short time, andjand spoke at various meetings
.-Treas., Council of Students, | then adjourned, also by acclamation. to 10.30. | the auspices of the First Baptist! all youth interested will be welcome. throughout Halifax.

 
October 20, 1939

 

      

 

   

Oldest : RED MIST turned and saw someone standing at
There are only two kinds of people| the edge of the clearing. But those

who are really dangerous; those who| Were superstitious days, and the

   
  

‘=
-_.\

     

      

    

= - -  B-9602 : figure in the gloom turned and fled
eo - -  B-6958 oe ae ‘Eo oe at the sight of the apparition in the
i f A cea Fergias was very stupid, but none of glow of the fire. Malcolm’s natural
= - - B-9746 his neighbors considered him danger-| edness, heightened by the flames,
Editor: JOA ett a . very willing young man, strong as .
s Manager: INEZ SMITH - - - - B-1049 .

an ox, and timid as a hare. The watcher arrived at the village
He diced in a rugged day, when/ 2nd spread the alarm, but he levelled
Nova Scotia was still a place that a 20 ee, at es e yo
few venturesome young gentlemen sure ne ps ae e ; egos : 4
had visited, and where exiles were ee of darkness at his fiendis
sure of security from the laws of Nemes, TA OE aI
I land. But Malcolm Fer- XSp ee a younger son of a | pressing visible emotions, so when he
nee es eae eee
red in the Highlands o : ° : )
oe es had come ae with his | the Evil One had visited the little | SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
father aha some neighbors to J eanr pag and had left his mark. )
promised land, only to find it a| In due course, Malcolm’s father | “The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”
desolate and antahabited wilderness. | died, and Malcolm came into his own. |
The little band: of immigrants te- | But none of the villagers would ever |
treated into the interior and man | ne . oe oS ee aa
aged to eke out an existence. | pat a 9 ean! ering the e |
That first winter was a long, hard | ae a aor © - : uate ry: |
one, and Malcolm was often hungry | ley never found ou a e

  
  

Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Limited, $4, Argyle Street, Halifax.

  
 
 

we expressed in any colunin of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
nat they represent the opinion of the student body.

-  MeCURDY CUP HOPES BRIGHTEN
Like a snowball rolling down hill the Dalhousie Tigers
itin ef victorious aa which we hope will lead to the
y Championship of Eastern Canada. Nemesis in the form
Caledonia Athletic Club has continually frustrated
made by other Nova Scotian teams to lift this title.
ed Cape Bretoners have come to look upon the matter
perennial affair. For years they have brushed away all
yosition, though not of late by the overwhelming scores that
d to mark their easy conquest. Like the Romans‘ of old
are growing soft with easy triumphs and the Tigers intend
put the miners’ metal to the test some time in the near

=
= Oe

‘re. The last struggle between Caledonia and the Bengals

“Are there any local regu!ations | should observe?”

 
   

  

u*
“Yes, smoke your own Sweet Caps.

     
   
 

    
  

       
    
    

 

 
  
 

   

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED

    
     
 
 
  
   
  
 
    
    

. in 1936-1937, when the Tigers came off second-best to the|and cold. Even in the sheltered | Devil lived a a a | DRUGGISTS |
iene a j ? ’ . : : f | 6
tune of 14—3, the immortal Duff Stewart registering the only | valley where his father and a few o | | !
fe tee ee cuts one . | the other settlers had built rude huts wa Re en ra. ig Headquarters for Students’ Requirements
Ween x there was death and grief. So it! REBECCA

 
 
  
  

 

ESS est the old order changeth, giving place to new, and Pas te
hi? tape ees cece i added to he Tigers’ belt, Dalhousie | was little wonder that Malcolm’s Rebecea’ is a strange book; a - Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.
“4 mother died before spring. very startling book. It is exceedThree years passed during which | ingly well-written and interest does
Malcolm’s father became a little|not lag at one instance from its
prosperous and took as his second) opening to closing page. It is defwife the widow MacAskill. This /initely different and has extremely
woman Malcolm hated with all the| well-accomplished unusualness.
loathing of his simple soul, for he In reading “Rebecca” I believe one
supposed his father’s lands would Be ecerres a major shock in the first
to her when his father died. | instance with a succession of even
For a year he nursed his = ones as the plot is un
hopes are hitting a new high. Last Saturday’s victory over
the United Services marked the third consecutive win for the
team. Looking back we remember that we nosed out Acadia
- «68 and beat the once invincible Wanderers 8—3. When the

w i

| __ battle on Saturday was finished the score totalled 16—3, so
that the team seems to be gathering momentum and playing
| ik a superior brand of rugby as the time goes on.
i an} toy By way of contrast, Caledonia seems to be letting up on
| __ the strenuous pace with which they began the season. In case

     
     
 

  
  

~~

    

Pas

   

=

=

THE WHOL
OZ-IFIED!...

Everybody's humming “Over the
Rainbow” laughing and chortling
with the happiest screen character
since “Snow White “1

a"

  
  
  

—_

 

 

 
 

=

 
     
 

ao

  
  

7

ee oA wan have forgotten, the Cape Breton team began by swamping
wes: Mount Allison, last year’s intercollegiate champions, 32—3.
| —SCTT*hiis looked ominous, to say the least. Sidney fell to the cham
S re pions, 21—0, and their latest victim was St. F. X., who yielded
to superior force with a score of 14—0.

| ~~. Comparisons are futile, as each game depends on so many
b different factors. Suffice it to say that as matters now stand,

    
 

against his step-mother. Not that) ravelled. It is true that the reader
she deserved it, poor woman. She|is totally unprepared for what beworked from the time the sun came/| comes the main theme of the book.
up over one hill until it set behind| And then he is too astounded at his
the other. Life was dreary, monot-| discovery to disclose an opinion until
onous. And all the time Malcolm| sometime after the cover has closed
was thinking, as well as his stolid! on the final page of this amazing
brain would let him. He was big,| story

   
         

  
  

San enadtsagasihingstenssapieapaeyetapemeneummnenicpaieeiios Se  ———

  
 

      

  
 
  
  
  
  

  
  
   
  

 
 

 

 
 
 

xt ay 72
Tesh] hous Lh
Dal OS

a
oO

Ry AR
Rf.

 

her ancient rival seem more and more to be ap
al strengt

  

 
 
 

1, and when, as seems extremely prob:

 
       
 
 
 
 
 
   

brie Ne ae i in te . . i ri red face} There is is similarity between mA / \

oment. the teams m n Halifax some) well over six feet, with a : PPR 3

oe oo : gest bid in the} that was never shaved, little staring, | “Rebecca” and Shakespeare’s famous Y | JUDY GARLA
a iesihy nake t Bae te sk Pty baby eyes, coarse red hair, heavy| play in which Caesar himself domi- iff ‘inet

   

ee
= i ear

|ved hands—he was ail red, and 2
_|red fog soon closed about his mind.
‘Chopping in the woods, he would lay
down his ax and say over and over
again, “She’ll get it all! She’ll get
it all!” The rhythmic ring of his

 
   
   
  
  
 

nates the plot, in spirit, long after
his body has been mutilated by his
“friends”. Here we find a story that
is dominated from the very beginning by one who has died before its
opening. Could it be that Shakespeare’s “Caesar” was the inspiration
for a theme which, with a remarkably skilful treatment, becomes a
thrilling classic in “the modern

(The Merry Musical Maid!)
LP Sonon ecco tater nee nt nee eee

ES 0d CeO OTE
r- 7 °

(He's a Whiz of « Wiz!)

P Perce ote
i RAY BOLGER
(He's « Jitterbug Straw Man!)

Pa

: ivy ttBERT LAH RO) ie
(Uproarious Comedian!) noTURE

     
   
 
 

   
   

 

1ead. Nor do the stars” attempt to monopolize
ather do they work as a machine in which every
part but none more important than another.

( Starting Today

the Shows will
run continuously |
Daily from |

1 P.M. to 11 P.M.

 
  

A

  
   
   
  
  

  
  
 

  
 
  

ax, as he chopped, seemed to echo

Herein lies the team’s greatest strength. The spirit of “one | the ne a Pre
_ for all and all for one” goes far to explain the success of the = he ph id aa oo . Be
i gers to date. It is precisely this fact that has made Cale-| "iver that woun g

CK HALEY |.
(See Why He Con’t Go Out ln The Rein!)

  

eye?”

a eral RS EY : | : * Haven, played a mocking undertone
so superior to other Nova Scotia teams in years gone by. ; On criticism at the opedine eiaue

Pein ba ke ee” ;+, | to his thoughts.
le mass passing of the boys from the eee sow Ut The idea that he was being cheated

       
 

suggest that the innocent, extremely When You’re Down Town
every player handles the ball has been the envy of every ein » ext , |
fs ee Pathonsic os Had individ eee end ctend te we nen Onan ee eee 2 ite ol! Come in to PHINNEYS
Bar" as strong a team as this year’s before, but never, in our

a

ee bap
| — ally as | | | i i to kill his step- scription we believe her to be hardl We'd like to meet you, and
| __ time at least, has there been a team that pulls so well together. , Might he determined to kill his step Pp y

|

 
      

iy
if
f34

‘ : , ‘ how you our fine line of
‘AN : | s ; . joy | Mother. The next day, as he chop-| more than a child. Suddenly she is i |

} A word about the intermediates. With a strong senior : reer ber life in Bh

e aa m it is to be expected that there will be some overflow to ped in the woods, a plan took shape | married and takes up er life in the SP ORTS EQUIPMENT

 

midst of most tragic circumstances.

jhe ae pee earn Mee hg: in hi ind. His father would be ren
ee |. ere dowerfal than they have been of recent ee ee owing en We find that, although very young|| THE PHINNEY MUSIC CO., Limited

years. This is the case. To date the intermediates have two|#¥@Y the following evening helping

i saecrnenanine

    
 

  
 
 

     

Bee Re : 4s ions. | is neighbor five miles distant on|she is mature in many ways that we 456 BARRINGTON STREET
i. | wins and & drew under their gta eae Se eet the Rie side ot Gk 1 He xtcy- | had tok an yet gaspectod ‘SPORTING GOODS DEPARTMENT
takes hie (3 sor the seconds mah Sones ently aap pen oe etree a be a mother and her newborn child would| At the story’s climax we learn that
ee go Up to the Sener team to fill in the ee tee. pe ee be alone, and early in the morning he | Rebecca, supposedly well loved by
he juries. The Cubs are in a tough league this year, and although would tell her that he was going up| her husband, had -been murdered by
ec they have yet to play the strongest team, Truro, the showing ae ’
5 : | ; hecw iald the river to chop for John Fraser.| him and that his feeling for her had z 2
Bears made so far has convinced many that the season may yield a He would leave Fraser’s early so as| been only a well deserved hate. ‘The Gi alh Dp it 5 ip Universi t
| be double victory. ; ; : h. Th to get home soon after sundown.| hate we realize is justified. But the Yj
| ine a There is little doubt that a Oe ee Ste p b . His step-mother would be in bed and| murder? No. We know that mur- Halifax, Nova Sco fia

 

of another is not our own to end at
will.

During the final pages of the book
we have our story clear before us for
the first time. Our next expecta- |
tion is that of retribution for the
murder which has been committed.
But here again we are surprised.
Retribution is not made for this wilfull deed. More than that we are
made to feel that this man’s unhappiness and his unpromising future justify the fact that complete

  

Py will go far to make this the most successful season that the eae Cee ay hoe
? university has enjoyed for years. Dalhousie swept Acadia off WEED ‘ho Bouin tions witlitn “Pinder
Pha ‘he tennis courts on Saturday by sixteen matches to three. The Be Paw. Eki rads anean acd sath
| way is clear to even greater success. With the proper esprit i ‘

: some birch bark, started a fire. The
de corps 1939-1940 will be a year to be remembered for more ies Met dde he-aeer 4 tan Hams

leap up; his mind was filled with
happiness. The red mist closed

; LETTER TO THE E DITOR » . » | ightly about ‘his heart.

The flame spread slowly at first,

Maintains a high standard of scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

  
     

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in—Classics, Mathematics,

Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses, of recognized standing, leading to degrees of
M.A., M.Se.
Courses preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

 
 

reasons than one!

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

     
  

4 To the Editor of the Gazette: certainly not “economically inde-| but a little breeze fanned it into an
ae) Referring to your “Plea for a! pendent” and their presence is con-| eager, leaping monster. But some
aoe Liberal Education”, it is quite un- | ditioned by the trivial matter of! sense of danger had warned the
; deniable that our educational system | making a living. Is the educational sleeping mother. She sat up in bed

  
     
 

retribution is not necessary. But it

    

 

 

  
    
 

ba turns out a too high proportion of | system at fault, if students demand|and saw the flames coming through ae not. Here is an ethical problem Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses,
Me fe erteclece, GY. Te fal tinct nthe cds hese rene] Soa Cig GuuhRE er sha, she] which doos mar th page fim) ae ee recmtte

rar pes ay 2 ici ta era dentin” in. /Malsi herd er fing ith th DANCE] stcos vostates,enoy an anes ropataton
ir | pen ee cee ee 2 ee tried woman rusted om, be and

Res Now it seenis to me.that you give | system se a “liberal Gnenon” She fell, uttering eh asin T vestwie Ks Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160.00 a year;

 
 
  

By _ too much prominence to (2) whereas | down students’ throats in much the| The child rolled to one side. Mal(8) is of much the greatest import- | same way that an old Indian chief | colm’s heart swelled with the murder

ar
ance; at least to us, in view of the | once planned to make Christians of | lust, and wrenching the ax from the
bi." _ fact that we cannot do much about | his neighbors, but how many stu-| woman’s head, he sunk it into the
eva or C4 (directly at any rate). Most dents ultimately wanting technical infant’s skull.

Just at that moment Malcolm

in the B.Se. course about $190.00 ,
Thelma Gallant : ne Oe

MASONIC HALL
Cor. Barrington & Salter
Gentlemen, 50c
Ladies - - 25¢

Saturday Night

 
    
 

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

    

Tie ath t
Ba rp ty ” fle

35 ah _ students who come to univ ity are. _ (Continued on page four) |

  

 

   

 

 
n is at last at an end.
Initiation produced one lad
at of ‘Pee jokes.

We

= Dalhousie Frosh their freeNo longer do the boys have

ht look like with makeup. Among
many Frosh present, we noticed
stine Cameron still showed a
decided interest in the Smiths.
Ww! nispers have it that one lad from
he Law School had quite an interest
n this same red head. It all shows
go you, a Freshman usually comes

th ou on top.
5 We: see couples and couples on the
Ca: mpus. The most frequently seen
team over the weekend seemed to be
_ our Scoteh friend who is taking en
RBMaAbaMaT he sie A yd
d 7 =~ 2. — iS

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

>
=

Platform—the aim of this column
is to probe with diligent, digital
dexterity into dental items of interest to erudite Dalhousians!

Election — the formation of an
official Dental Society crystallized
last Saturday with the election of
the following officers:

President—Marshall

Secty.-Treas.—Nickerson

Representatives — Black, Vaughn,
Brown, Smith.

Plans for Faculty Discussion
Groups, Entertainment Socials, and
a dental unit to compete for the
Bennett Shield are afoot.

Although “the best laid plans of
mice and men gang oft aglay’”, my
conviction is that this executive staff
means business!

Welcome—the fourth year class
extends the hearty hand of welcome |
to voyagers A. Nussbaum, M.D., and
S. Becker—from ITALY and Syria.
To them and the newcomers from
Alberta and Quebec, may we say
that your' stay in Halifax will be
memorable because of the fair, cour-|
teous, and kindly treatment which is

 

Mii ‘i
Say 99

Please, please, let nobody discourage the practice of window-hanging
(a method of viewing the neighborhood; not of suicide) at Shirreff
Hall. How pleasant it is to wander
past that grey stone edifice at a time
when the practice is rife! Maybe
it would be a good idea if the boys
all got together and made up a chart
of just who lives behind each window
so that, at night, one could tell by a
casual glance who was in and who
out. And speaking of Shirreff Hall,
since when does Reg. Eaton play
with fire?

Who was the prominent second
year med. who brought a deep blush
to the face of a Biochemistry professor by laying on his desk an
Apple for the Teacher? A _ Boy
Scout Apple at that! And in the
same class which stude with Irish
same class which stude with an Irish

is Ss ae Vinee

PO Soa leet s tan ie eed ew ean SS oe dem

is xh 7K

;

a I : * ,
en Rm Ate a Sn gee sas ee ee

Page Three

 

 

(With malice towards all.)

when he’s around.

’Twas an evening In October
I was very far from sober,
And to toddle home te bed

I vainly tried,

My feet began to stutter
So lay down in the gutter
And a little pig did thus

To me confide.
iat” oe

George McKnight, celebrating his
sixth year at college, is back in
usual form making life miserable
for the Freshettes. The author was
informed that a very pleasant afternoon was spent in the Chem 1 lab.
Many corks were bored. Do you
know how, now, Marie?

6 * K

Attention Don Graham — It appears that Frances is more interested
in the cadaver than in you. But

many and some are sweet.
Chem. 1 lab. is full of them. We} Collins?
thought. we’d tell you before it’s too
late that Carstairs is doing sentry
duty around the door. We think too
much of you to let you live in
ignorance.

ball
TRAINING.

The

The Author.

* *
It’s no fun having a one and only

Is there Joan?
ag *

George Corston has given up footand taken out PHYSICAL

*

2K

* *
Evatt’s happy and Cork’s sad.

*

Back in the early days of the fall,
the two boys stood and held hands
on the platform watching the Ocean
Limited come in. Finally Sally came
and now Corky stands alone.
getting cold on the platform these
fall night, isn’t it Corky?

It’s

* # +

Last Saturday night a Fraternity

tea dance was held. Tea is invigorating, isn’t it Cameron?
to McNeil, of course.

We refer

 

 

BLAKELEY’S

How do you like competition,

x *# *

This little pig went to market,

This little pig stayed home.

If you stay home folks, you don’t
get in the Sty.

GAUVIN & GENTZEL
Special Rates to Students

24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone B-6992

 

 

Good Coal,

Clean Coal,
Coal that looks good,
better and heats
best of all.

burns

We have the most desirable stock

a trancing? And what noble Scot the tradition of Haligonians towards keep trying, Don, keep trying.

eee aoe an-trishman.’ Could * began the practice of bringing Yo- | Strangers. . of coal to be found in Halifax.
"have been Murphy? Anyway it ‘Yo’s to class? And another clever| Press Clipping—‘“a vitamin house} There appears to be a marked for Lunches
lo SoA all very pleasant ’n’ stuff. lad of the year 2 has the whole class | displayed at the recent convention of difference in a girl visiting a uni- Dinner Dustless

> The- football game on Saturday, divided into factions on the question| the American Dental Association | versity and attending it—Marie was nd Confecti Direct to Bin Chute Delivery.
oer ee. ee of whether or no he speaks true or “idee pete nea foodstuffs con-| nice as a visitor, wasn’t she ae. - PEETEMORELY.

_— ‘ ied, | taining a e vitamins necessary to | is Kae a more charming dinner e

when he claims to be newly married g ry But is Ka g @ R. E. Archibal d

=I Physical Instructress accompanied
ty a a “hart”, At the King’s-Dal Cubs
| ame, King’s supporters. had a hard
tit me to drown out Inez Smith, but
. they did succeed at times.
_ Saturday night Ron Ritchie, it’s
i ae spent his evening looking for a
et high heeled shoes. Whose

e gers ve seen. His excuse is that
i > was caused by a football! Yes?

the development and preservation of
sound, healthy teeth”.

Moral—If you have voracious
guests, don’t let them literally eat
you out of room and board by construction of said domicile.

Scientefact — if the nerves of a
single individual were laid end to
end, a strand embracing Canada
would result.

Query? — to medicos, then how
long would a neurotic’s bundle of
nerves—specifically Hitler—be.

Philosophy—in this day and age of

How can one explain the presence
of six or seven boys attired in lab.
coats reclining on the lawn of the
Medical Science Building about three
P.M. one afternoon last week?
Ohhhh well, it’s the early worm that
gets the bird.

 

 

 

News of Lawlor’s foul deed had
now travelled by word of mouth to
all ears of the campus. It was not
considered as news by the Gazette
staff.

The C.O.T.C. was indulging in a

   
  
 

 

companion? Remember Bill, many
a filly has turned skittish when let
loose on the green grasses.
Open letter to Marion Little:

Dear Marion—The freshettes are

have its students training for the service of their country—you know, the |
British carrying on, and all that—
and nothing should be considered |
more important than the desire of |
these brave lads to fit themselves
for: what may well be their task.
Furthermore, I think that all the

Join Your Classmates!
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

SEE THE SHOW

Big Double Bill — You’ll Enjoy It!

 

Insist on

Phone B. 8133
| 297 Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

 

AT THE GARRICK

|
|
|

College men, call at COLWELL’S

 

 

“pull” when that quality supercedes accomplishment as a prime
factor for wordly success, the epigrammatic words of a clinic patient
come to mind. She said, “Do you
know what dentists are successful?”
“Who?” i politely inquired. “Why
those that have a lot of pull!” Oh,
Exodontia! Oh Exodontia!

Key to Happiness — where ignorance is bliss, ’tis folly to be wise.
But though education be “gall and
wormwood”, it has been from time
immemorial the lever of mankind for
prying from jealous nature the
secrets of life—and death.

R. H. W.

full dress (overhauls) parade around
the trenches. Major Catfish was
snetstne orders in a manner peculiar
““\to his position. Suddenly Buck_| private John MacGinty rushed up to
Maser: aCtfish, saying, “excuse me
but the Choise have captured a

esh na D's Tung ad King Carl’s

is get them back”. With these words
_ | MacGinty collapsed in a trench.

‘| “Men”? roared Catfish, “whoever
| wishes to volunteer for this dangerous mission will please take on step
forward”. The troops in a body took
one step to the rear.

“What we need in this army”?
roared Catfish again “is more
spirits.”

“Make mine rum” said Caporal
Corky and took another step to the
rear.

“Very well men we will march to
the forrest and surround the place”
pleaded Major Catfish. (Aside)
“blimey this is orfull’”.

“We can have more fun surrounding Shirriff Hall, sir,” quoth Caporal
Corky.

However, Catfish paid no attention
to this crude remark and gave the
order to march.

Will the brave boys of the bad
brigade recapture Carl’s dawg? Will
Fizzleque die? (we hope so, he’s a
nuisance). What will happen to
Bawlson? Will Uncle Mell read this
to his safety club? Who will write
the next installment? We won’t
read the next installment.

The Third Estate

MILITARY DICTATORSHIP?

Peggy Merkel, Arts °40 — “It
doesn’t seem fair to me. that the C.
©. T. C. should take up so much time
in the gym, because it will diseourage some forms of student activity,
such as badminton.. On the other
hand, it doesn’t seem right to complain about the C.O.T.C. either, be| cause we need to train the soldiers,
and all that.”

Alfred Dickie, 2nd yead Medical
student — “I think that in view of
the present crisis the C.0.T.C. should
have every right to infringe on stu
ae paieed: | is the tale that clouds

   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   

boys in the C.0O.T.C. should have
Yo-Yo’s to keep their little hands
busy.”

Edna Menger, Arts’ 41—‘“I’m all
for the C.O.T.C., but I don’t think
they should be allowed to interfere
with student privileges as much as
they are doing. There must be other
places where they can train. We
have a wonderful gym, fitted for
every kind of sport imaginable, and
what happens? Half the time it’s
being used as a barracks, or something!”

Charlie Gordon, Ist year Medical
student—‘‘The C.O.T.C. is fine—they
should be given every encouragement. I think it’s nice for the Hall
girls, too, having all those uniforms
around—and besides, it keeps the
regulars off the campus.”

Murray Ryan, 3rd year Law student—“In peace time, I think that
the C.0O.T.C. should be subordinated
to other student organizations, but
in war time they should override the
less important activities, for two
reasons: first, for the sake of patriotism, and secondly because those in
Arts get credit for a class out of it.”

“You'ne Diffene nt/

THAT’S WHY FOR PERFECT FIT and FLAWLESS
STYLE YOUR FIGURE DEMANDS iNDIVIDUALLY
TAILORED CLOTHES by TiP TOP TAILORS.

9 hs

422 BARRINGTON STREET

TIP. TOP

on Barrington Street for all your

Donovan’s Beverages
clothing requirements.

15 - Different Flavors - 15

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear. :

Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accessories.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST.

B-6821

 

 

To The Class
of ’43

For the class pins and
rings, Birks have new
designs, and attractive
prices.

We invite your committee to come in and
take advantage of our
experience.

Henry Birks &
Sons Ltd.

yal Caxties singing “My
pot, she wears an ink
 

 

 

t Wilbert P. had in mind

ie | P. was a freshman and
Taina anyway. As he passed
el of the science building

dent privileges, in the gym and elsewhere if necessary, just as much as
they think is needed. In ordinary
times, I should say that the C.O.T.C.
would have no right to interfere
with other student activities,”

Bob Maitland, 1st year Law student—“I think that in this hour of
peril and need, Canada needs her officers, and the C.O.T.C. should have
every right and opportunity to train
her cohorts—they need it! It should
be an honour and a glory for Dal to

ORPHEUS

Friday and Saturday
THE JONES FAMILY
a
“QUICK MILLIONS”
Second Feature
CHAS. STARRATT
| | ee
“NORTH of the YUKON”
PLUS GOOD SHORTS

‘ Hiieture.
.do you think of that? shoutWalter Bawlson, as he eae

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

I think it is a noble experiment,
| rawder smeddy” gurgled Wilbert

  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

o in its acrid fumes. He wobbled
scariously on his wheel and came
> of the fog like a true freshman

g which Matioved on the pave
om ent Immediately Worm Laylow

_ snatched up the offal, tucked it in his

- bosom and without even pronouncing

| “Fizz eque. dead,” ran towards the
ue aunt of Ghouls in the forrest.

    
  

 

MORE THAN 500
PATTERNS TO
CHOOSE FROM

HAND-CUT AND INDIVIDUALLY
By TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL
hu led after the retiring Laylow. décasmuahestre
it you want anything from me
™ ; it yerself,” yelped Rufus with
_ typical logic and indifference.
_ After this puntuating remark the,
‘only sound which broke the abysmal |
ss was the groaning of dear
zleque who lay on the grass surinded by volumes of Milton and
weeping Prof. Binnit.
"you come to my English 2
es, Fizzleque, my boy, I will let
a sit beside Kissy Cameron”, mur
  

ne
a

     

Visit Our Oyster Bar |.
Fresh Oysters, served just like

a want them at Boutilier’s
ster Bar, Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW.’

 
    

TAILORS

   

i

  

tne to ee
See tae es

 
 
 

  

  
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
  
   
 
  
  

ee ied petted
1 et the play,

faa)

> wher ‘Lloyd | was offal relieved the pressure
kicks by MacNeil and Bird

cht back to the Services’

h stu tubborn 1 exiatoaee by the tars.
a, uae rosette 1 the play

shi os aa a Platey ‘kick
alled - against them on their own
rd: line, it looked as if the tars
break ‘into the scoring column,
i one i$ s- “kick mae to clear the

  

    
   
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
     
 

Bs ae dag From a serum at centeross uf ie the scrum gave the ball to the

: ne Marty MacDonald at the
wing three-quarter position. Mac
laine raced the remaining 40 yards

+ es 7 sive. “the Bengals" an 11-0 lead.
os a yal converted his second try
2 of the game to ‘add two additional
to. the “Dal total. Several

aa ae Bi
i=t7y

|

| ya es later, ‘the Dal squad were
| United Services’ 30-yard line, and
, BF MacRitchie, who never kicked better |
his.’ before, ‘added another three points
| ey continued to Jorcs the

rake playing with
ried | all past

  
  
 

nts < The tar
zene ‘the ball to mid
2

Sweet, poe up the

  
 
  
   
    

dow oe fullback Johany Bird,
passed to- ‘Arnott, who crossed the
by toad line standing up to make the
"score 16-8 in Dal’s favor. The atRen ae mpt to convert was blocked by
pe ie OM il.

i ee is For, bathoanic Chemin, MacDonald and Bird carried the brunt

  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  

‘United Services — forwards, LaKrulicki, Dormier, Jones,
_ Grant, Lloyd, Chedister;
“ advee, Arnott, Lynch; three-quarters, Paul, Sweet, Milrea, Oliver;
ihren 0 fullback, Cosier.

___,. Dalhousie — forwards, Kerr, Ideson, W. Macdonald, Vail, MacRitchie,
Storey, McKimmie; halves, Chernin,
Eaton, Burke; three-quarters, McNeil, Pauker, Hutchins, M. MacDonald; fullback, Bird.

SWIMMING

All those interested in swimming
please get in touch with Bernie
Ralston. Last Wednesday Dal de_ feated the “Y” in an_ exhibition
meet. With the prospects of one of
the strongest teams in the history
of the University, swimming is in
_ for a big season this year. Every
OWN A ROYAL

The Portable with Big Machine features

 
   
  

 

   

 

.

+

 

 

LANGE 08
OSS LTD.

  

 

 

feted ee 3 ack MacKenzie at
dea eee the elt gartt lie
niece single | |

  

 
 

pe i> Pe }

   

 

Cubs, 7; King’s, 7

torre en as ee ae *

      

  
 

Dalhousie Cubs were held to a

7T-all draw by a fighting King’s football team in a regular match of the

| | City Intermediate Rugby League

| played at Studley last Saturday
afternoon. The Cubs, although
favored to drop their opponents,

’ ;
_| were not up to form, and on several

occasions nearly lost the game.
Dal started off well and with the

| serum and three-quarter line work
ing well, they pushed the play to
King’s 5-yard line where Bill Martell
relieved the pressure with a long
kick in touch. With Martell carrying the attack with nice kicking and
running, the Kingsmen started a
march down the field which resulted
in the first score of the game. The
Cubs were awarded a penalty kick

|near mid-field and Ferguson’s kick

-|fell into the arms of one of the
King’s forwards who kicked the ball
back up the field to be retrieved by
Forsythe. Forsythe ran about 20
yards before being downed, but just
before he was tackled he passed to
Leighton, who went over the line
near the corner to give King’s a 3-0
lead, Forsythe’s attempt to convert
Leighton’s try failed.

King’s College were controlling
the scrum and kicking well, and had
it not been for Bundy, who repeatedly raced after opposing wingmen
to send them to the ground with
beautiful tackling, King’s would have
scored many more tries.

Getting the ball from a
scrum on the Dalhousie 40-yard line,
Bill Martell booted a long field goal
to put his team in the lead by a 7-4
score. This was easily the best play |
of the game, Martell’s kick from
away out splitting the posts with
plenty to spare. Dal started to force
the play, but each time they got any
where near the King’s line, they
were penalized and had kicks called

a scrum. on one : King’s
but Martell relieved the
pressure by a kick in touch.

‘Loose passing on the Dal threequarter line resulted in several Dal
fumbles, mussing up numerous opportunities to score. Dalhousie
pushed hard in an attempt to knot
the score, and finally their efforts

 
 
 

|} met with success, Jack MacKenzie’s

| penalty kick sailing over the bar to

tie the count at 7-7. Shortly after
this Wilf Burchell was removed from

| the game when he suffered a broken

nose.

Dalhousie continued to force the

play but were met by stiff resistance| their Mount Allison rivals by a) sonal development,
,| from King’s; the King’s forwards) single match in the final round of | which

    
 

cepa a
i
sean) ete rated eee ed SES mney
. Ce i a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

TRACK MEET
The University of Mount Allison

copped top-honours in Tuesday’s
maritime inter-varsity track meet

held at the Studley track, after over- dais

coming stiff opposition from Dalhousie and St. Francis Xavier.

ten points ahead of their two nearest
rivals, Dalhousie and St. F. X., who

tied for second place with 36 points, much interest

The | pe thoroughly enjoying itself.
garnet and gold speedsters finished} ),o;eq like fun

GIRLS’ SPORT

Down by the tennis courts the
other day we saw an interesting
sight—about eight girls on one court

and all playing tennis.

It seems as

if Miss Wray has some system
whereby they can all be learning
something at the same time and yet
don’t get in each other’s way. We

*t just see how it was worked,

but it was and the class seemed to

and it’s nice to see
those lovely courts used.
We wondered why there is

closely followed by Acadia in third! ground Halifax lately. The reason

place with 25.

_|for it is the Navy! It appears that

Led by Don Norton, who amassed | the boys off the boats like to have a
a total of 20 points to win the award | jittle recreation, and one of their
for highest individual standing, Mt.| ways of getting it is to play hockey.
A. scored a flurry of points in the| Now there aren’t any boys’ teams

latter stages of the meet to sweep
to victory. Dalhousie got off to an
early lead in the meet, and at noon
was tie for first place with St. F. X.

Mt. A., Dal, and St. F. X., were but)

a few points apart throughout the
afternoon, and when the last event
was called, Dalhousie and Mount
Allison were tie with 36 points
apiece, but ‘the Sackville squad in a
very exciting mile relay, scored an
other ten points to give them a clean | from the Berwick. Dal h

cut decision.

 

around here so the gris find themselves challenged by these navy individuals for a game. We must admit that we’re a little surprized, but
not at all displeased.

This interest ky the men has
started a ground hockey boom and
so there are lots of games in store
for the Dal girls. Besides the regular games with H.L.C. and Edgehill, |
we have been challenged by a team
asn’t played

| these people before and is looking

The Dal squad did remarkably! forward to the game.

well in the field events. Led by

Then, of course, there will be the

Norm MacRitcie, who shattered Bill} gamea against our own dear Dal

Crawford’s old discus record with a| boys.

We always enjoy these little

heave of 124 feet, 4% inches, the| affairs, despite the damage done to
gold and black tracksters counted] our sticks and shins! And now the|

firsts in the high jump, discus,

javelin, and shotput events.

Navy wants to play us—it looks like
an extremely interesting season,

The track events were closely con- | doesn’t it?
tested, Don Norton leading the field |

in the 100 and 220 yard dashes, and/ meeting the other night it was de-|
Dalhousie placing first and second in| cided that the girls should have the |

H. Colpitts of|gym on Wednesday evenings for
Acadia showed great form in win-| basketball and badminton.

the high hurdles.

ning both the 440 yds. dash and the
880 yds run, and Alvin Thompson

 

At the Student Gym Committee

Basketball hasn’t started yet, but the gym
is there for any girls that want to

won the pole vault without much | play badminton.

difficulty.

TENNIS

Dalhousie’s tennis team success
| ye | fully “defended her championship

title in the first round of the intera| collegiate playdowns, when they de| feated Acadia by a score of thirteen
matches to three in a tournament
played on the Dalhousie and Waegwoltic tennis courts last Saturday.
The Dal racqueteers acquitted
themselves well in all departments of
the game, as they swept the men’s

singles, men’s doubles, and mixed | very nearly this, yet it is ethically

doubles, broke even in the women’s
doubles, and took the women’s

put up a stubborn resistance before

 

unsound.

going down to defeat, but ar

housie’s accuracy, speed, and powerful drives gave them the victory.
For the first time in the history

 

Miss Wray requests that any upper classmen who wish to take gym
classes please hand in their timetables to her. She can’t possibly arrange a class until she finds out
when people can come.

“Rebecca” —

(Continued from page tivo)
the story at its very end. But for

this it is recommendable in every
way. It is fast in movement, exciting, clever; portrays its characters
in an unusual and delightful style.
“Rebecca” has been called “a masterpiece in modern art.” It is certainly

G. E.

TS en issesseseattesiuneeaesee
_——

M.

| singles three matches to two. Acadia) Letter to the Editor—

(Continued from page two)
training would (could) attend a
university which tries the new plan?

No, for now the practical w ay is to
|} carry on in a manner similar to the

of intercollegiate tennis, Dalhousie | present, but every effort should be
University’s racqueteers lost out to) made to encoutage students in per- |

,| and backfield men tackling well. The | the Maritime Intercollegiate Tennis |
Cubs were dangerous on several oc-! Tournament played at the South End

them close to the blue and white line.
Several minutes before the close of

the game, Ferguson missed an at-|nesday evening Dal led, 9 matches |
The| to 8, but Mt. A. captured the re- |

tempted field goal by- inches.

 

and Wednesday. When play was
called because of darkness on Wed
game ended with King’s fighting | maining two matches Wednesday
hard on Dal’s 25-yard line in an ef-| morning to take the championship,

fort to break the tie.

Line-ups:

King’s: forwards, Anderson, Dunsmore, Hotchkiss, Robey, Tufts,
Milligan, MacMahon; halves, Martell,
Drillon, Densmore; three-quarters,
Langley, Forsythe, Leighton, Le
moine; fullback, Merkeley.

_Dal Cubs: forwards, Hagen, MacGregor, Kirkpatrick, Janigan, A.
MacDonald, G. Murray, McCullough;
halves, Burchell, Van Horne, Ferguson; three-quarters, Bundy, MacKenzie, Kinley, Leith; fullback, B.
Murray.

 

“The Largest and Easiest Credit House in Town”
481-483 BARRINGTON STREET »

10 matches to 9.

   
 
   

 

|

casions, as kicks in touch earried | and Dalhousie courts on Tuesday | content to tre

 

|

 

the need for
technical training eannot

supply.
Whatever we do let us not be’
at symptoms.
DIOGENES.

 

       
 
 

A Pleasant
Place for

A SNACK

 
    
     
    
 

  
  

  
 

"New Method

Watch
Cleaning $]
Guaranteed 1 year
Main Springs, $1.00

OXFORD

Jewellery Store
575 Barrington St. 4

  
    
 

     
    
    
  
   
  
    
   
   
  

 
    
   
  
  
   

  
   
   

turers’ prices.

  
 

NO PROFITEERING HERE

Most winter merchandise was orderer and delivered before the war. . . :
be sold at the original prices.
prices unti! we have to replenish at higher manufac
Your purchase is $20.00.
$1.00 fortnightly, or 50c weekly,
payments are in ‘proportion,
made, but the minimum payment is S0c weekly.

   
  
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
    

After the Show

The

Green Lantern

409 BARRINGTON ST.

“Eastern Canada’s Finest
Restaurant”

  
   
   
  
    
      

     
 
 

   

  
  

 

This merchandise will positively
No advance in retail

        
  
 
 
 

  

 
 

CREDIT PLAN
You pay $2.00 per month, or
For higher purchases,
Smaller purchases may be

   
   

   
    
   

 

  

Opposite St. Paul’s Church

 

  

It

so
in ground hockey

 

|

 

 

nr

)

|
|

|
|
|

eg ene ess yh sss sss ade

 

 

October 20, 1939

    
   
  
 

‘

Welcome Co-Eds

We invite you to visit this smart beauty
shoppe where you will receive the latest
hair styles under the direction of “Marquis”.

20% Discount to
College Students.

ewe FT, ets Aten

Emile
Hairdressing
Oxford Theatre Bidz.

Marquis, Manager
Anne MacLean, meee:

When driving

it is always too soon

 

:

to take a chance

LIVE AND LET LIVE

Published in the interests
of Public Safety by

UA AL

Established 1869

|
an

| Head Office, Waterloo, Ont.

 

 

 

a
Bie:

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses

 

in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotian Students.

Write or call for Calendar or advice to : |
F. H. SEXTON, President.

 

There Is an Underwood
Portable Typewriter for
Every Purse and
Purpose.

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

16S HOLLIS ST.

HALIFAX, N. S.

oERINAUSSUUESAESU AANA ERNE,

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

_KINLEY’ S DRUG STORES

IOASAATESTLAOMUE RAAT RNA

 
