 
   
 
  
  

   
    
   
 

VOL. LXXII

 

IN MEMORIAM Smith bcs

By C.L.B. Guide Frosh

The Council of the Students, Dal-}
housie’s mighty governing body, |
held its initial meeting of the year
on Sunday morning. The first busi- |

}
j

The untimely passing of Dr.
Nichols makes a breach in the Dalhousiepattern that cannot soon or
easily be concealed. Probably not
one of us on the faculty could more
truly be- called the complete Dalhousian, and his dominant principle
was loyalty to the College — more

 

; ; ~~ |ness. before the meeting was the |
particularly to the inner auras replacing of George Hagen as|
of Arts and Science, the “Little/ Preshman representative and as |

College” commemorated by his old
friend and teacher, Archibald MacMechan. Loyalty was Edward
Nichols’ guide in every waik of life
— faithfulness in friendship, in

| Chairman of the Student Gym Com- |
mitte. Harry Smith will in future)
look after the frosh interests, while |
Gordon Kinley will hold the delicate |
position of chairman of the com-|

“THE COLLEGE

wEL,.

 

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 6, 1939

wt ed ee ne

  

 

 

 

 

NEW NAMESIC.O.T.C. Offers
ON FACU LTY Advantages

Dalhousie University welcomes
this year several new, permanent
part-time professors and lecturers.

The new O. E. Smith Professor of
Education is Professor Mowat, for
the past five years assistant Professor in the department of education,
University of Edinburgh. Professor
Mowat received his education in

 

at Tuesday noon, Major R. E. D.
unit on the campus, explained to the

program
Corps for the coming year. The
major divided his talk into fourteen
points concerning the C.O.T.C. and

Folkirk High School, George Wat-| explained many features of the
son’s College, Edinburgh, and in| course to the audience. “It is the |

Edinburgh University. He graduated
in 1927 with first class honors in

feeling of the military authorities
and the officers of this unit that too
classics.

No. 1

 

 

DEATH CLAIMS BELOVED PROFESSOR

 

|
At a meeting in the Gymnasium
Cattley, commander of the C.O.T.C. |

-assembled students the purpose and |
of the Officers Training |

daily affairs.

religion, in scholarship. He was
conservative alike in his reverence
for the classics—both ancient and
modern—and in his unwavering adherence to established and constitutional methods in the conduct of
Wanton disregard ot

established rules offended him as

ONE cu:
ry,

much as tampering with manuscripts
or neglect of the appointed service

of his church. He followed the clas
~~ le
=a

 
 

;

vege: Oui. 4 Gull

 

lar’s favourite text from
]

wit marked by «

     

Of Loyalist

  

| _ stock, he knew from firsthand ex
—

erience the small farming communi
O ies and village schools from which

the Dalhousie tradition has derived a
great portion of its strength and
character. Indeed it is for his
essays on interests attaching to the

Old Farm and the Littie White

Schoolhouse, and their surroundings
in Digby County, that he will be
longest and most widely remembered
by the general public. A selection
of these papers was in the making

at the time of his death, and—save

se

‘

for the exigencies of war — it is
hoped that they will soon be printed
in the permanent form that they
deserve. ‘The last thing he did,
characteristically, was to complete
for a learned journa: an article in
the field of classical syntax which
‘was his vocation and his hobby. As

ove all things; |
. = fi Sates

  
 

  
  
 
 

by a special faculty

‘mittee which mediates between the
students and the powers-that-be of
the Gymnasium. Bob Swansburg
and Frank Johnson were appointed
election supervisors for next week’s
bye-election. Frank Johnson was
also appointed to replace George
Hagen on the Students’ Council
Dance Committee.

The President of the D.A.A.C.,
Ralph Plumer, presented a request
that the Council go to the Senate
and ask for a full holiday for the

ae ‘

d Field,

 

  
  

 

is granted every year for the
faculty meet. The inter-faculty
‘meet would be run off on the same
day as the inter-varsity meet, Mr.
Piumer said. He pointed out that
this would be the first inter-varsity
meet in which Dalhousie participated
and also the first to be held at Dalhousie.

The question of the Students’
Council Dance was the next thing to
be considered by the meeting. There
was considerable discussion as_ to
whether the dance should be held in
connection with some college event,
such as the field day, or a Glee Club
show, but since the dates for these
affairs are not yet settled definitely,
it was finally decided to hold the
dance on Thursday, October 5, if
possible.

Inez Smith brought a request before the Council that the Gazette
be granted an advance on their
budget to cover the costs of the first

inter
   
  

    
  
   
 

   
 
       
     
     
      

ny
igs 63

Two years later he received
the degree of Bachelor of Education
at Edinburgh University, after which
he taught for two years in his old
school at Folkirk and in high school
at Stirling. Later he was appointed
demonstrator teacher in

education. He has been a member
of several committees on the Scottish
Council of Education, and has visited
schools in many countries of Europe.

Professor Mowat comes to Dalad sie * th * tl i 7 | ighest r 0 enCae mig, oa a een Al . : ey
ns from his associates and
a =

geriors. He has also been very

a

   

| successful in encouraging dramatic
| work among young people.

A new professor on Forrest campus is Mr. Hugh Davson, assistant
Professor of Physiology. Mr. Davson graduated from University
College, London, in 1981, with first
class honors in Chemistry and
Physics. He continued his studies

in London, in Biology, Physiology, |

and Histology, and has submitted
published work for the degree of
Bachelor of Science, University of
London. He has held several demonstratorships in scientific subjects in
the University of London, meantime
carrying out research work under the
auspices of the Medical Research
Council.

In 1936-1987, as Fellow of the
Rockfeller Foundation, Mr. Davson
worked at Philadelphia, and elsewhere in the United States.
last two years he has held the Beit
Memorial Fellowship for Medical

For the |

|'many young men with brains were
killed as privates in the last war,”
| stated Major Cattley.
‘by saying “This was a mistake on
‘the part of the young men as wel.
|as the officers of the time. The loss

| sacrificed.”

He said that it is essential that
the country conserve its brains and
that these brains be all owed to
develop as much as possible. He
‘stated that it was the object of the
'C.0.T.C. to manufacture officer material. One point that Major Cattley
_stressed most strongly was the fact
that enlistment in the force was entirely voluntary and that the students were under no compulsion
| whatever to sign up. There have
been rumors circulated concerning
| the fearful oppression that the stu|dentsof Dalhousie were under to join
‘the unit stated the Major. These are
|utter nonsense and there are some
'indications that they have emanated
from other seats of learning.

 

 

The officer continued his talk giving details to the men concerning the
| organization and plans for the com‘ing year. Costs, times of training
'ete. were taken up by the officer in

| turn. At the conclusion of his ad
 

| dress there was an open period in
| a number of the men took
advantage to ask questions.

ber also stayed after the regular
meeting to sign up or to discuss

| which
A numpoints with the officers.

|
|

He continued |

Moray | to the country was therefore two-| : °
House, the Edinburgh department of| fold, both men and brains being |¢o!¥mn in the Western Gazette as,

|
i
|
}

 

‘gineering at Dalhousie, studied Ger
a young man he could plough a) jssne. Her request was granted.
straight furrow and read Pindar in After a hastily smothered attempt
the original, and he could add inter-| to bring up the dance question again,
est to both farming and linguistics the meeting adjourned.

by tracing the familiar “Bossie” of | yee

the barnyard back through cognates |

and derivatives, to his prototype in
ancient Oscan. His writing and his
scholarship, like his teaching, were
the expression of a rich and enduring personality. Those many who
knew him well think not of his works
but of the man, and mourn the loss
of a friend.

Freshettes

Meet Officers

On Friday the freshettes made
their first acquaintance with Delta
'Gamma at a meeting chaired by
Joan Blackwood the president. Delta |
eee is the organization on the |

: 'campus which is in charge of a.] the
By-Election Tuesday |girl’s activities. Under it come de
A Student by-election will take bating, sports, and social activities.
place on Tuesday next. The polls| Joan told the freshettes about the
will be open from 9 a.m to 6 p.m. | society and introduced representaand every student who has a vote tives of the various committees.
should be on hand to exercise it. Marion Little, of the Social ComMore than one previous by-election | mittee, spoke of the social events |
has been made unsuccessful because which will take place. There will |
this voting privilege has gone un- | be open house at Shirreff Hall on
used by a majority of students.| Saturday nights again this year, 2 |
Freshmen, it must be remembered, | dance will be held each term, and aid |
have no vote at this poll. will be given to the Community |

 

 

_ The first post to be filled is the | Chest at Christmas.
seat on the student council made
(Continued on page six)

a \ _ . w!

Debating trials will be held later
(Continued on page six)

 

Research, carrying on his work in| One of the founders of the Dalthe United States and London. More | housie unit of the Officers Training
recently he has acted as demon-| Corps gave a short address before
strator under the celebrated physio- | Major Cattiey spoke. This was Major
logist, Lovatt Evans, University of | Roper who commanded the unit from
London. He comes to Dalhousie with | 1926-28, and avho was closely conthe highest recommendations. | nected with it during the last war.

Another new ‘appointment in the | Major Roper gave the history of this
Medical Department is that of Dr.| unit from the time that the last
Mary A. C. MacHugh, assistant in| great conflict broke out up to the
Pathology. +| present time.

Mr. Alien Findlay, a graduate ix| There was a very large number
Arts from Dalhousie in 1984, has | gathered in the Gym to hear the

 

(Continued on page six) . (Continued on page six)

THE LINE-UP

FULL
John Bird

THREE QUARTERS
Parker Hutchins Bell MacDonald

 

 

HALVES
Burke Eaton O’Brien
FORWARDS
Phillips Ideson Kerr
MacRitchie Vail
Storey MacKimmie

rr rn ee

 

| architect.

EXCHANGES
WELCOMED!

 

Another years begins and another
petite exchange student comes to
Dalhousie. This time it is Kathleen
Rex from the University of Western

Ontario, London. Kay, whois in her |

Junior year, is taking a Bachelor of
Arts course and specializes in English. She is very much interested
in journalism and intends to follow
a career in that field.

Basketball and swimming both ap
peal to Kay, but she prefers bad- |

minton, tennis and skating. ‘This
budding journalist is also an excel
lent pianist and although she has

had very little experience in dra- |
matics Kay is definitely interested in |

the Dalhousie Glee Ciub.
While at Western University Kay
was in charge of the Book Revie\

well as being an active reporter, but |

as yet she has not worked on any
city newspapers.

“Dalhousie”,
“is a grand place and as far as
location and grounds are concerned
Western and Dalhousie are very
similar. The great difference between the two is in the sports that
are emphasized for at Western University American rugby outshines all
other sports and basketball, hockey,
etc. have not the important place
they seem to have down here.”

The timetable at Western, according to Kay, is far heavier than at
Dathousie, for up there no restric-|
tions are placed on the number of |
classes that a student is allowed tc
take. Finally, Kay thinks our initiation is a marvellous idea and she}
hopes that Western will follow Dalhousie’s example for all initiation
has been dropped at Western University except for the regular regaiia
of tams for girls and skull caps for |
boys.

Welcome to our two Scottish
Freshettes, Olga and Yvonne Mounsey. They have come to Dalhousie
from Edinburgh, Scotland. Both

according to Kay,

|Yale University and received

 

«>

GREAT LOSS

 

NICHOLS

DR. E.. .W.
| Dr. Edward Wilber Nichols, educator and author, who since 1930

has been head of the Department of
Classics at Dalhousie University,
passed away at his home on August
26th, following a brief illness.

Born at Lansdown, Digby County,
Dr. Nichols was a son of Mr. and
Mrs. Edward Hart Nichols of that
place. He received his early education at the public school at Lansdown and at the Digby County Academy and then eytered Dalhousie
University, where his _ scholastic
career was marked with a high degree of success.

He received his B.A. degree from
the University in 1906 and four
years later took his Master’s degree. From Dalhousie he entered
his
Ph.D. degree from that institution
in 1913.

After receiving his B.A. degree
from Dalhousie Dr. Nichols spent a
year teaching at Naparima Coilege,
San Fernando, Trinidad, B.W.I. During the five year period 1913-18 he
was instructor in classies at Yale
University, and the following year
returned to Dalhousie as Assistant
Professor of Classics. He was ap
 

girls went to Bedgebury Park in
Kent and Olga, who is taking En
pointed associate professor in 1924
and has headed the department since
1930.

Dr. Nichols was a member of the

 

mam and drawing in Germany for

one winter before studying architec- |
ture for one year at the Edinburgh) the Classical

Executive, and former President of
Association of the

\

College of Art. She wants to be an
Yvonne is a “Special Student” and is in her Freshman year
at Dalhousie. |

(Continued on page three)

 

Maritime Provinces and Newfound=
land; a member of the Nova Scotia
Historical Society, the British Classical Association and the American
(Continued on page three)

 

Oscar Wilde

The Glee Club Executive is in the

/middle of the hectic business of pro| ducing
'which this year is “The Importance

the first Glee Club show,
of Being Earnest”. A good cast is
practising hard, three nights a week,
under the direction of Rev. Llewelyn Graham, of All Saints’ Cathedral, who expects to have the play
in good shape when it is presented
on Tuesday evening in the Gymnasium. The cast is:

Hon. Gwendolen Fairfax—

Mary Marsh
Lady Bracknell—Kay Hicks
Cecily Cardew—Margaret MacAskill |
Miss Prism—Lorna MacLeod
John Worthing, M.P.— |

Jack Woodbury |

On Tuesday

Algernon Moncrieff—Bob Begg
Rev Canon Chasuble—Gordon Kinley
Merriman—Harry Smith

Lane—Bob Swansburg

The Dalhousie grads, who always
help to put on the first Glee Club
Show, are well represented in this
cast. For the benefit of new Dalhousians it may be said that Mary
Marsh is one of the best actresses
that Dalhousie has seen for some
time. Lorna MacLeod, who graduated and then took Education, is also
well known among the older students. Everyone except the Frosh,
remembers Margaret MacAskill, who
was a member of the cast which won
the Connolly Shield last year.

ane ced ieee

 
      
  
 

America”

 

GAZETTE STAFF

  

_ Edito1 : WEBSTER MACDONALD... = =~. - B-9602

News. ‘Editor: JOHN WINDEBANK - - - -_ B-6958

f ip Bee ' PACHIOCOAHAN =~ ~i--.~ .-: .B-S148
eae 1% 4 Sp ort Editor: ALEX HART - - - - H-5650
Re Fat ‘aaa ‘Editor: ISOBEL MORRELL - “iy BRS
eee ey Literary Editor: GENEVIEVE MacMAHON - -_ B-9746
Exchange Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD -~ = ‘9748

Business Manager: INEZ SMITH - - - -_ B-1049

 

a.

For over seventy years this paper has been the literary organ

 
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

at pra pas cy

1
ty in
Par rE , Inte
5 as
o
Ite
\
; y
i a

i, fhe wend have to be placed together in a new society then the

- petrated in the name of Democracy. This is no time to shirk

~ which to live.

_ culty in deciphering his speech. A

_ Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Limited

os

The views expressed in any column of The Gazette are those of the author;
seeamed that they represent the opinion of the student body.

it cannot be

As” the first semester of a rather uncertain college term
- gets under way, the Gazette takes this opportunity to extend
a hearty welcome to the new members of this university as
well as to those who are already acquainted with this publi
   

cation.
«ty | ,

way. of introduction and to refresh our memories it
1 be well at this point to clarify the status of the Gazette.

   

d vehicle for student opinion for Dalhousie. It is desirable
to emphasize that control of this paper is entirely in the hands
of the student body, printed by Dalhousie students for Dalhousie students. It is, moreover, a free, unr egulated press and
_ Strives to be an instrument for the free expression of student
opinion, whether of controversial nature or otherwise.

In these days of rigorous regimentation of the organs of
~ public enlightenment it is the privilege and function of the,
- Gazette to provide a place for free discussion, however diverging may be the different views presented.

The Gazette has one other main duty. In a non-denom-jnational college and one unfortunately divided into two campuses, the difficulty of securing internal harmony, commonly
expressed as “college spirit”, is a very difficult task. It is
_ through representative bodies, of which the Gazette is happily
GG that the various interests at the university may be welded

to one homogeneous whole. Further sub-division of the |
Studley and Forrest campuses into different faculties tends to|
isolate the student body into self-centres groups, which are
_ detrimental to a unified outlook on common problems. |

The aim of the Gazette is to present a common front
wherein every section of this university may have a voice and
‘not feel that it is neglected to the advantage of some other
part of the college. If this object is achieved the staff will be |

re than pleased, for then the Gazette will be fulfilling its
proper function as a powerful instrument in the formation of
a unified spirit at Dalhousie.
. In this the first issue of the Gazette we would like to give
ae welcome to the freshmen and freshettes, who form one
of the largest classes to enter this university. As the main
ention of the upper classmen is that the newcomers be abthe life at the university as quickly as possible
ng in a short time will be but a memory more or less
, it is hoped that the class of ’43 will take part at
va rious activities provided at the university. In
" stment will be as rapid. as possible the difms are described
. be hoy ed | that the new arrivals will make the
portun nities and take their due place in 1 all that

V\ e are” ving in ina sick world, ‘and as time goes on the
Ne hae re of propaganda to which we shall be subjected will make
clear thinking more and more difficult. As university students
Mee must be prepared to examine events as objectively as posWhen Hitlerism is smashed and the broken pieces of

 

 

  

    

university graduate can be of inestimable value to mankind.
The mistakes of the last peace treaty must not again be per
‘and we must prepare to make the new era a better world in

 

THESE MODERN DAYS
by COLIN H. SMITH

The heterogeneous, unreliable mass
of humans living in, and around
Central Europe, are today as in days
of yore, being again roused by the
‘sword. Such treaties as the Versailles Treaty, Locarno Pact and the
Polish-Germanic Pact promulgated
by Hitler in 1934 with Pilsudski,
together with the aims and efforts
advanced by The League of Nations
have failed in at least their primary
objective .. . Peace!

Armed with a non-aggression pact
with the U.S.S.R. the cunning and
truculent master of the Third Reich
invaded Polish territory on September the first of this year. Thus the
solemn pledge that was given to
Poland was violated by its creator,
Herr Hitler.

Albert Foerster, the man that
cleared the path for Hitler’s soldiers
in Poland, declared the Danzig Area
a German state with full rights as
such by Sept. 2nd. Prime Minister|ed well out of danger, contrary to
Chamberlain addressed the British Hitler’s promises. The Nazi airHouse of Commons that evening. force of Herman Goering swept
Such men as Beverley Baxter, and down on small unfortified towns and
the British Labour Leader, Mr. villages, then the goose-stepping inGreenwood, appeared to have diffi-, fantry backed up by Krupp artillery,
marched through the provinces of
northwestern Poland.

During these first two weeks, however, the horrors of war struck a

hours given to him by Great Britain.
Such audacity on the part of the
German Chancellor was awarded
with a combined declaration of war
on the German Reich from France
and Britain. Such comments from
the Conservative seats as “Speak for
England” greeted Neville Chamberlain as he rose to explain the British
policy. Although he appeared very
tired, and somewhat older due to the
very grave responsibilities placed
upon him by the will of the Britishers themselves, his second speech
was magnificent. He pointed out
that Polish Independence must be
maintained at all costs, and that
“Hitlerism” must be extinguished
forever.

Taking advantage of a slight delay
in Ally manoeuvres, the full force
of Germany swept eastward into
Poland. Within the first two weeks |
such famous cities as Warsaw, Lodz,
Lublin, Lwow, and Biolystok remain
8 aaa 2:80

 

Sunday session was ordered for the
first time in one hundred years on
Sept. 3rd, due to the fact that Hitler
had failed to remove his troops from

ad side of Poland. The “Athenia”
-olish soil within the required 24

large passenger ship of the Allies

elsewhere in detail in this|

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

October 6, 1939

 

“THE MERMAID TAVERN”

TWILIFE TWILIGHT
The life is done! To sufferings a|The light is done! Behind the shelprey, tering. hill
The sick soul shrinks within its) The setting sun sinks slowly from
dying shell the. sight,
O’er which sure signs disclose a sad' To show slim tree-shapes, stately
decay sentinel
Of moral strength and substance,| Atop the sabling ridge as, from
signs that spell the height,

Death’s certain sentence on the sallowing clay
Whose eyes and cheeks, so sunken, strangely tell
In startling, soundless speech, the

Their stretching shadows down the
hillside spill

shades unite
With sudden, silent speed, to spread

silent way. until
Man’s final, sovereign foeman’s| Their gatherings of gloomy, comefforts quell ber might

The grim resistance of the flesh at/ With still, smooth dusk the glim
bay. ! mering valleys fill.
Within the body spent (a sunder- | Against the paling sunset, softly |
ing cell), bright, |

The spectant soul still keeps its
shortening stay
Until frail dust succumbs to Death |

ly still,

The tree-top silhouettes stand, shape
Until swift darkness shrouds the |

To where the stealthy, swelling |

Si
\\ |
i iN
TL \
las
~~
A

 

and Hell.— sky in night.
The spirit struggles free—Life| The evening star shines clear—|
has no knell!

there yet is Light!

Gah: 'S.
Note: The above lines are intend- | MY SAINT
ed for reading aloud only as an ex-| When the child was fragile with its

| youth,
| God kissed the dewy petal lips
POLONAISE |And then proclaimed His truth,

I saw the place from high upon a} “O God, I need.”
hill;

Green brilliance bending o’er cold, | | When the child became a maiden
fragrant water, fair,

And high above, the sky, with fairy | God took her yearning to His arms
clouds, ane she adored Him there,

Blew rolling, dancing puffs of biue, | “OQ Christ, I serve.”
white shrouds.

ercise in the control of sibilants.

 

|God came to take her from the life,
She turned and murmured, sighing,
“Jesus, I love.”

Shrouds too gay for all my bitter |
thoughts. |
They made me weep, an alien to’
this beauty. me) loving Mother, ever fair,
Some horrid human shifting takes | Gentle one,
the laughter Did Christ want and need you there,
From green brilliance bending o’er Still young?
cold fragrant water. | Yes, He called to take you home,
—Abraham A. Fischer. | A blessed treasure to His throne.

BRAIN CHILD

“You are back again? I had
hoped that when I packed you off
the last time it would be for good.
I dressed you respectable and sent
you again into theworld, now you
have returned as dirty and miserable |
looking as ever. Once I was proud
of you. I thought you would sway
mankind, and what have you done?
Nothing. You have disgraced me.
Each time you return I am more
ashamed of you. I have given up|
expecting that you will ever be a
success. You will keep returning, |
and I shall continue to send you!
forth, until one or the other of us|
dies of old age.

I have said enough, after all I am)
the only friend you’ve got, and in
spite of all your faults I do secretly; 1 have always intended to frame
love you. Often however, I blush| the yellow one that says, “Although
to admit it. | possessing some merit, the Editor

I shall clothe you a new and send|Tegrets—” Yes, some merit, that
you away again. Come now,—into | one gave evidence that one person,
the typewriter with you. We must|ebsides myself, actually thought at
find some new pink-frilled words| one time that you did possess a faint
that might attract some marble- | glimmer of intelligence.
hearted editor’s eye. I must make} Enough reminiscing, you must go.
you look a little more perky and at-| The mail will be collected soon, and
tractive. I’ll try to give you some of | I might as well send you away again
that magnetism they call “Oomph.” | now, as later. Depart, my child with
I have heard that editors like | my blessing,—and don’t come back.”
“Oomph”. KAY REX.

 

Here is an envelope, a new address, and a fresh stamp. Incidentally I am sending another stamped
envelope,—just in case—. It will be
a protection from the danger of sudden death in a wastepaper basket.
Although you are a good-for-nothing,
I don’t want to see you go too far
astray.

However, I might as well begin
at once to look for your return, and
for one of those beastly little slips
that you always bring along with
you. Although some are worded
differently, they all mean the same
‘thing “The Editor regrets that he is
‘unable to use -this material.” I have
quite a little collection of them now.
There are blue ones, and pink ones,
and even one or two yellow ones.

 

 

 

them Hitler or no Hitler’. Further
on he writes, “And instead of giving
three cheers for Stalin we are shrieking that all is lost.” Bulgaria, that
Nazi-inclined state, due to the Russian move now hopes to regain her

was ruthlessly sunk off the coast of)
Ireland by an enemy submarine.
British bombers replied by a dawn
attack on the German naval bases
of Wilheinishaven and Brunsbuttel |
damaging Nazi warships which are |
very scarce. The French army struck lost territory composing the rich
on Germany’s historic Western Front | Dobrudia section in which 250,000
hoping to relieve Poland of some of | Bulgars live under the Rumanian
the pressure? flag. Eastonia, Latvia, and Finland,

The U. S. together with Rumania, at the present time seem to be havHungary, and’ the “Oslo” group ing great trouble in avoiding the
decided to remain neutral. But the |
U.S.S.R. did not preserve her neu- trol.
trality very long. By Sept. 20th, the | her
Russian Bear was in command of
Western Poland. Their troops had
met the oncoming German forces at
their old meeting place, historic | his assassination.
Brest-Litovsk. Much speculation as
to the Russian attitude was circu
Lithuania is also about to loose
independence. Calinescu, the
Iron Man of Rumania, is dead, but
so also is a great portion of that

Sweden is finding
it even more difficult to protect
her economic status. Perhaps the
lated about and it was learned with | illusive “Bremen” is in the Russian
doubtful hope that the eminent port of Murmansk.

George Bernard Shaw was saying:| Incident piles on incident with such
“At this point we being helpless, Mr. | startling rapidity that the future
Stalin steps in and says: Not quite. |becomes more and more uncertain.
If the Ukraine and White Russia are | History has never been made any

going begging, Russia will occupy faster than in these modern days!

 

| So when at last, the Mother dying, |

 

 

Russian diplomatic thrusts for con- |

band of desperate men who planned |

 

!
!

* Are there any local regu'ations | should observe?”

“Yes, smoke your own Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

Paulette Ltd.

134% SPRING GARDEN RD.

|
|

a

Week End Specials in

Dresses

'§ Crepe & Frock Wools
$7.95 to $12.95

 

 

 

 

 

Fountain Pens

If you want to get your
notes down quickly get a good
We carry the
best in Pens or Pen and Pencil
Sets—and that’s not all, come

fountain pen.

in and see our stock.

F. G. Martin Co.

The nearest Jewellers to
Dalhousie

37 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED

DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students’ Requirements

Halifax, Sheet Harbout and Kentville, N. Ss.

BLAKELEY’S
for Lunches

Dinner
and Confectionery

Join Your Classmates!
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

ORPHEUS

NOW SHOWING

“Unexpected Father”
with BABY SANDY
MISCHA AUER
and

“Society Smugglers”
3

Monday, Tuesday, Wednes.
VICTOR McLAGLEN
in “EX-CHAMP”

Plus
“GIRL FROM MEXICO”

 

 

 

 

 

Capitol
TODAY - SAT. -. MON.
Today at 2.15 - 7.00 - 900

Saturday and Monday
Continuous from 1 to 11

Spencer Tracy

“STANLEY AND
LIVINGSTONE”

with
NANCY KELLY
RICHARD GREEN

SIR CEDRIC HARDWICKE
WALTER BRENNAN

TUES. - WED. - THURS.
HEDY ROBERT
LaMarr - Taylor

“LADY OF THE
TOPICS”

 

 

 

   

When driving

it is always too soon
to take a chance

 
 

LIVE AND LET LIVE

Published in the interests
of Public Safety by

Established 1869

Head Office, Waterloo, Ont.

 

 

 
esi Pee as
Nang, bi eo Tale . Foe ee, io
Raed aoe ; 1a hee i. rae
MOEN rp At,
4) oan or eet un it * j i. 4 Ts
e+ eee - ~ Ne ¥) ;
ied aa nr Fs +3 ‘
Dh eta’ aM, Tot ee fy
c i ; i , i;
, ; " iy

  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
     
  
  
  
    
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
     
   
  
 
   

 

THE LITERARY ‘D’

-| Allen, M........ VaRirune ee
ROTI Soh yackeaentaceas Oe
POPOL ON esc aly e's wit ele ; 2/3
ecwee wy ih disenaas weed ae
te) cad Lives a oe dng +s 1%
Black, D. .......--.000 %
y 1 wi | Blackwood, J. ...........-- 13
3 and delightful bonnets. is) RE, ae a 5/6
e me! of Class ’43 certainly | Burchell, C. W. ....-...6.-./ 5
9k colossal! ‘There’s something] Burchell, Wilf. .........-.- 5
a bonnet, don’t you know! We/Cahan, F. ...........--- ine
shocked to see the lack of re-| Gahan, J. ..........-+0 005: 15
shown the Sophomore Class Cameron, Be. die vue asin eeae 1%
hen the Frosh wrote in chalk all| Collins, G. ........--++++++ oh
t that forbidden territory, the|Corston, G. ...........+.++: 11/7
ior Walk. With relief we hear MS ioe es seid n ee bays M4
t a tooth-brush session has been| Curry, J. ..........00-0++: 6
pre for Thursday afternoon. In|palton, L. ...........5++++: 3%
the chief actors willbe Bagnell,| Davison, G. .........-+++++ 1%
Kirkpatrick, Smith, Stone, Parrot, Rrra 1h." ged ceatealy as 25%
nd Graham. Christine Cameron and (A) CN A Cee er eee aieae M%
j. a enee nar made the sustake WGI tds hace Sava ewe rane. 4
. Oiioall: Mew dc orecd ude sss) 2%
aughiy! PIGS Rly a ds tsa sd eee wierg Ss 2%
Great excitement is still evident] Drummie, M. ........-..--. 13 1/3
the Forrest Building. Oh, you’ve| Elliott, L. ..........+5-4+-- My
About the two females in|} Finlay, J. ........+--+++++: 5%
year medicine? Yes, they’re| Firth, G. ...........++++-+- 5M
' Dies HRUPONG,) Se. cw sess e's Fie d yn’ %
u hear about the worry that Al| Foster, G. K. ........+++++- 1/5
Morrison is causing his classmates? | Fraser, L. ......-.+0+++++55 1%
: = seems that Bt, used to be a mice| Freed, Lo ofc... eseee erent 3%
tag ea a cd way 1
Grane, Be io de ws at aes y
(valtam, Diese cos ee a ees %
Graham): Me 2). td as one 5
RE NRE RN a 62 odo du cen syed 11/3
Harrison) Re... 6. fee et eg 5
Paty asd oe fist etree wipe oe 1%
Harvey, M. ....-.s--5200+5 1
, Bolletts As. gcse ewe een :
hy, Mointey, Ge ced t se cere tes 5
| E a aor of the ven, | Kirkpatrick, S......,.-+++- 1%
Eat OTGLEKY, Vier sec ewias sie e084 1/3
SPER tc ee ee NS as My
PE PANU O MDa she eyor's ya. sereae ee ees 19
EU ES aah. tg x, 0 e088 rs, d > 1
MacKean, D. .......- BO deh. =
en appeared at Pine Hill last |wosnepn? Dh os 1
7 The lads ore phgeys, Bree e MacQuarrie .........-s54-- 1/3
ete PLE. So eager, in| Merkel, M. ......02-00000+ 6
| da Moore, WER yg Fas wie fo deities if
ne oe eer eae Aen 5 abe nt rll

CAG. case . —
| Naismith, G. a a
THORAEGE, SS. ey.y boos oe ide 7 AM
)| Plummer, R. .......-0ee0 0 %
Piercey, G. ..... 000s eee Bia,
<t that | : the occupants moage L aist iets . ets 3 Pie Bens. es
5 til SRE ARS eee ae Me
ush the lear tight on down| poy ison, Gs 51/3
oft ie wharf. Did this happen? | ponerts, C. --.eveveverss 21%
vane sar has not been: ca! Bee Wea FEE iy aie pues «i ren
SeNTAATR os ks pleas anos 1/3
Smith, WOME heat dette. le
Oh yes, it’s open Settee Hae sate a AR.) « Y%
* ed he “Ask the Frosh about it, It Sorge, ee Petr abreils erties ees Ye
is rumored that several dollars| Gtubbs, R.........----.... Yo
damage was done to the Hali by the ruse Cer eccrve fe 1/3
_ Frosh on Friday night at their dance. iGwanshore; A Pe ee, re M%
ie Jim Purves is seen around the Hall/pompson, G. .......-0-++- 1
Ae hy often these days. Can it be| wosthaver, C. ..........--- ue
at Marie i is the attraction? Wandepani, Ju. o.< i was o's ei 1%
: - Sally. Smith came back Tuesday| Woodbury, J. ............-. 2%
ie ht Hurrah for Sally! She had| Wray, P. ............60.05. 2
: " a everybody worried for a while, but 0 UE ie ae an %
oer “ev” erything is O.K. Young, C. ......+.sseeeeess 6%

4

‘Hall girls are quite downhearted.
“Itch” Graham

ee
ei iv t?s a cruel world. Exchang: es Weleomed—
is has gone to McGill. Bear up, girls, (Continued from page one)
Pi we. understand by underground news Both girls like ground hockey and

KR

Ss that he has an able successor in| locrosse, but they also swim and
_ Freshman Harris. - skate as well as play badminton an?

From Kings comes word of a new | ‘mis.
reform that has been started by

d and Jones. This move
cae “ment is against drinking of that

amazingly popular liquid, milk. The
ane Bs ds from Kings are wondering if

and Yvonne acted in “Form Plays”
while at school.

Initiation at Dalhousie is very
strange to them for there is nothing
like it at English schools, but they
both enjoy our college life and Dalhousie is delighted to have them.

PASSING REGRETTED-
(Continued from page one)
Philological Association.

Dr. Nichols was the contributor
of numerous articles appearing in
oo the American Journal of Philology
ange indeed is the word that and of many essays in the Dalhousie
Shadow” MacKenzie has abandoned | Review.
s tapdancing as a career. He was a member of the Waegae ‘Stranger still is the report that! woltic Club and of the Studley Quoit
Ja 1ren was seen out of bed | Club.
: The Dalhousie students wish to
nges of all is that we’re|extend their deepest sympathy to
ig to stop now. More next week | his wife, who is a Dalhousie graduthis makes al Gazette! ate, and to the children.

Tasman thinks that the bush on
his upper lip improves his manly
beauty. After all, Tas, isn’t that
asking too much?
exandra Hall figures as this
-week’s topic of conversation. Who
was the strange man who was wandering through the dormitory the
ther day? Phyllis Lane, it seems,
eted him quite amiably.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

FREE THOUGHT

 

Greetings, to you, students, that

have been granted a more or less

indefinite absence from war scenes.
Some of us cannot help wondering
whether this really is a special war
—a war fought only for ideals and
principles. But Hitler must be stopped and we certainly do not want

another weak “Peace in Our Timcs”

| ette.
Yvonne likes music, plays | basket is a good idea, too. But this
the piano and is greatly interested in| idea of not wearing any make-up— |
dramatics for of course both Olga/it’s a great idea. I’m in favour of

Munich—so perhaps this is a very
special war? Part of our energy
this year might well be directed toward finding the answer to this
riddle.

Freshmen and freshettes—we have
a special welcome for you. A welcome that is different because it
contains more than advice about this
institution. A number of other people when they welcome you here do
so in the hope, if not actually expressed in words, that you will
accept this institution and its habits
as near perfect and all wise. They
hope that you will docilely become
acclimatized to the limitations, physical and mental, of this University.
The physical limitations you can accept—at least for the time being.
But the mental limitations, the intellectual standards, you do not have to
accept. True enough, you have not
any better yourself—yet. You come
out of high school not noticeably
educated, sometimes dangerously uneducated. Dangerous to yourself
and society because your store of
knowledge is to a large extent made |

 

up of preconceived ideas—for in-|
stance you have the notion that)
study is a chore to be avoided when
wage anne —
ay *

 

ever possible and not an inestimable
privilege. If the aim of society is
progress, there are few notions mére
dangerous for it than this. Unconsciously ‘you react to deceptive
propaganda, cramping  superstitutions, and obsolete dogma that have
been fed to you while you were unable to judge for yourselves—in your
impressionistic age when you had to
accept the authority of your “betters’. You will have to strip your
brain of this useless furniture and
start to think for yourselves before
you can become educated. But take
warning—to think for yourselves is
absolute hell—people will undergo
many forms of physical torture before they tackle this task and the
Germans are not the only example oi
this.

Most important of all remember
that your professors cannot help you
much in your task of getting a
sound philosophy of life. HEducation
is a task for the individual, otherwise we should become interchangeable parts of a mass product in
human monotony. Some of your
professors’ teachings will imprint
more deeply on your mental fabric
the superstitutions that hold you
back from becoming effective human
beings—but some will recommend
books that will not help in getting
marks. Read those. “Extra work”,
you will say, but it is through work

and books that we establish fellow- |
| ship with unending creation.

DEMOS.

 

The Third Estate

GREEN BONNETS

Bob Walter, B.Se. and Engineering *40—“Green bonnets? They’re
awful—humiliating! And as for this
business of no make-up — well, do
you really think it makes much difference? Of course, I’ll grant you
that there are a few cases—no, I
won’t mention any names! Anyway,

eon
‘eh 1/3), I think the whole initiation program
ne 1%), is a good idea — except, of course, |
% . ‘for this aeaing a. ban!” | My

—

| Ralph | Bidther, Medicine 41, Pig,

| ident. D,A.A‘C.—“The regalia is as
silly ; as (deleted)! But on the other

|hand I am indebted to the Sopho
‘more Committee for sending me
such lovely freshettes to work on
the track Saturday. I think that
Saturday the freshettes should be
allowed to don their war-paint and

 

doff that—headgear, and then I
could take one to Acadia. What
about it?”

Dick Murphy, Medicine °41 — “I

think the initiation program is
great. The green bonnets are very
fetching — especially on the fresh-|
men! But as for that no make-up.
for the girls, I don’t approve of it |
—it’s much too hard on the upperclassmen. How can you tell what
a girl looks like when she has no
make-up on?”

—_——_—

 

!

|

|
|

Libby McCurdy, Special Arts 41

“T think the green bonnets are cute
—the freshettes are getting a better break there than we got back in
those hazy days when I was a freshCarrying their books in a

the whole program—for these freshettes. I’m glad Ieame in two years
ago, though!” ;

 

J. C. Worrell, Medicine ’41—*“Silliest apparel I ever looked at! As
for the initiation, when does it begin?”

 

Russel MacRae, Medicine *42—
“T’ve only seen a few of the freshman class, and they looked silly—
but theri why shouldn’t they? As
for the initiation, I have yet to see
any signs of activity. Why, when I
was a freshman, the city shook in
fear of what might happen next!”

Rod Ideson, Medicine ’42—‘‘Very
silly, the whole thing—very silly.”

 

Columnist’s note: The medical vocabulary would seem to be confined
to “silly” and “ =

:

 

 

“Yes, this i

Welcome Co-Eds

We invite you to visit this smart beauty
shoppe where you will receive the latest
hair styles under the direction of “Marquis”.

20% Discount to
College Students,

Emile
Hairdressing
Oxford Theatre Bldg.

Marquis, Manager
Anne MacLean, oe

 

There Is an Underwood
Poriable Typewriter for
Eivery Purse and
Purpose.

Underwood Elliott
Fisher Limited

165 HOLLIS ST.

 

HALIFAX, N. aS.

 

 

 

MMMM MUU UT TTT A

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

 

YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

| at
| KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

Is *UONUODEUCSE AUSTEREO”

 

is the graceful Pen

that made a railroad spike

look like ai sissy”

ee ne rr

So oo

 

SAYS THE PARKER VACUMATIC:

aN UTD mark on the
E ARROW clip

pe means

; Guaranteed

      

“ 1 WAS FILLED WITH ACID

AND IM

(FERRIC CHLORIDE) INSTEAD
OF INK, WROTE WITH IT
ALL DAY- A 5 MILE LINE
STILL IN PERFECT

WORKING ORDER!”

si
y

The College Favorite by 2tol

GUARANTEED
for LIFE+

Not a clumsy metal object, but a
fine precision instrument—a streamlined Featherweight, whose 14 K
Gold Point glides nimbly across your
paper, making your thoughts glow on
the page like a living trail—that’s
the new Parker Vacumatic!

Yet five devastating demonstrations prove that it lasts a lifetime,
and also easily withstands acid that
eats away a railroad spike—the same

     

SAYS THE RAILROAD SPIKE:

“/ WAS NEARLY EATEN
‘N TWO BY THIS SAME
AC/D — WILL SOMEBODY
PLEASE CALL A DOCTOR/”

acid found in ordinary inks.
Esquire Magazine rates it in their
top-flight gift selections. And Jean

Abbey of Woman’s Home Companion
says: “Its sparkling, shimmering,
laminated style of circlets of Pearl
and Jet is the loveliest I’ve ever laid
my eyes on.”’

It holds far more ink than ordinary
rubber ink sac pens. For its sacless
Diaphragm filler abolishes rubber sac,
lever filler, and piston pump. Its Television barrel shows the level of ink—
prevents running dry in classes or
exams.

Go and try it today—and be sure
to look for the Blue Diamond mark
on the smart ARROW clip—that
means it’s guaranteed for life!

The Parker Fountain Pen Co., Limited
Toronto, Ontario.

    

\FE ¢

arKer

S>>-VACUMATIC=——

Pens: > Sto $10 Pencils to Match: $3501,$500

Pens marked with the Blue Diamond are

guaranteed for the life of the owner against
everything except loss or intentional damage,
subjectonlyto a charge of 35c for postage, insurance, and handling, provided complete pen is
returned for service.

 

Come in and see our splendid assortment of PARKER Pens, Pen

and Pencil Sets. We

welcome Dalhousie Students back to Halifax and

invite them to make our store their Headquarters for the many things
found in an up-to-date Jewellery Store.

‘Phos. CG:

Barrington Street

 

Johnson & Sons, Ltd.

The Barrington Street Jewellers

Halifax

Page Three

 

 

 

 
      
     
 

~——- FROSH REGULATIONS
ce. Class of "43 — 1939
cosh sh ll, during the period of initiation, speak to every
--uppere ide rtyal meet on the campus. The said Fresh-_ man or Freshette will address the upperclassmate with the

familiar “Hello!”
2. ~At no time or under no condition shall Frosh trespass on

  

 

the Senior Walk. e
| __-g,:«#Frosh are obliged to supply all upperclassmen with a
/ match upon request.

ct 4. Frosh aie wear the regalia provided for them by the
/- ss Sophomore Committee everywhere and at all times. This
/ ———— yule shall not apply on Sundays. |
_--~——-«#$,_~«~*Frosh must provide themselves with a basket or cari y-all
eee bag, in which they will carry their books. .

ee s 6. In addition, Freshettes are not permitted to use make-up

ees at any time. . |
| Peat cell keep the bow on their bonnets tied. Frosh are
~~ not permitted to wear these bonnets while attending

ne 8. Frosh shall not drive or ride in any motor conveyance
ee within the borders of the campus.
a) 9. Freshmen are obliged to serve the football players at

Se dinner daily.
ec 10. Frosh shall link themselves with at least one of the following student organizations. :
Dalhousie “Gazette”, Dalhousie Glee Club, Dalhousie Band,
Sodales Debating Society. : mf
| Frosh shall make an effort to contact some official of the
eee organization in which he or she is interested and offer his
Pea or her services.
12. Frosh are obliged to attend all meetings held for them.
: , Attendance will be taken and whether it be business meéetiy nis 3 ing, theatre party, or dance, the absentee will be severely
Bice § dealt with. |
| Failure to comply with the above set of regulations will
/__ involve the offender in a set of very unpleasant consequences.
et Alibis and excuses will avail you little. Your punishment lies
et in the hands of the Sophomore Initiation Committee.
Please note the distinction between Freshman, Freshette, and
ae Frosh.
BV ie <> President Students’ Council—Fred Barton
President D.A.A.C.—Ralph Plummer
hs President Arts & Science Society—Don MacKeigan
re President Delta Gamma—Joan Blackwood
. President Sodales—Frank Corcoran
President Glee Club—Gordon Heisler

; Editor Gazette—Webster Macdonald

 

)

 
  

 
  

“\ Special Dry - cleaning
) and Laundry Rates -For Dalhousie Students

Students! Once again Cousins comes

DRY-CLEANING

    

 
       
   
     
   
 
  
 

       

fi. i to bat with specially reduced dry.’. Prices for Students cleaning and laundry rates ... for
ea you only. These oe are eae
. bargains ...they’ll save you rea
me’: Coats, Dresses money. Don’t fail to take advantage
Aya Plain Suits of them.
iar Phone Cousins today and tell our
ae 65c driver you want Students’ Rates.
bia The number is L-2323.
peti Regular Price $1.00
j oO 85
a LAUNDRY Sil
ph : Prices for Students wo imite
Ibs. $ 1
. HALIFAX STEAM LAUNDRY j
es Ne NEW UNGARS LAUNDRY
18c per lb. over 6 lbs. HALIFAX. N. S.

  

 

yA When You’re Down Town

| Come in to PHINNEYS
A | We'd like to meet you, and
show you our fine line of

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

THE PHINNEY MUSIC CO., Limited
456 BARRINGTON STREET
SPORTING GOODS DEPARTMENT

 

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY STORE

OFFERS

AN EXCLUSIVE LINE OF
~ DALHOUSIE SUPPLIES

Crested Loose Leaf, Lab, and Exercise Books, Dal Stationery
Crests, Banners, and College Blazers.

LUNCH AT ROY’S COUNTER

    
 
 

    
      
      
   
 
   
   
  
 

 
    
      

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Freshmen Activities

Once again Halifax has been
treated to the annual spectacle of
Frosh initiation, as Dalhousie and
the upperclassmen welcome new
students to their midst. The activities which have come to be habitually connected with the “initiation”
of the Frosh were repeated once
again, though on a somewhat miider
scale this year ,as might be expected. The Frosh class, larger perhaps
than had been anticipated due to the
enlistment of many prospective male
students in permanent and _ nonpermanent forces, maintained a degree of sobriety befiitting Freshman
activities in such a year as this.

Activities commenced Thursday
evening September 28, with a parade
and show at the Capitol Theatre.
This was followed by the annual
Shirreff Hall dance for the Frosh
held Friday, September 29. Saturday morning witnessed the welcome
of the heads of the various campus
organizations, and the introduction
of the Frosh to Professors. Tuesday
and Wednesday evenings witnessed
mass parades of the class to the
Oxford and Garrick Theatres respectively. Last night the annual Students’ Council Dance was held and
attracted almost the entire Freshman class. Saturday, many of the
Frosh will journey to Wolfville to
support their team against the
Acadia Avemen. Next Monday the
Frosh will gather at the Arts Building and parade past the stands
during the Dal — Wanderers game.
Tuesday sees the Glee Club Show,
and Friday evening the entire Freshman class are the guests of the
Sophomores at the first big Dal
dance of the year—the Freshie-Soph.

All in all, to date the Freshman
activities have equalled if not surpassed those of previous years in the
degree of success to which they have
attained. It is to be hoped that the
Frosh will maintain their high degree of co-operative spirit during
their stay at Dalhousie, into which
they have been  so_ successfully
launched.


Freshie- Soph Dance
On October 13

' The Date—Friday, October 13.

The Time—9.30 - 1.30.

The Place—Dal Gym.

The Occasion—The Freshie-Soph
Dance, the first BIG dance of
the year at Dal.

The Price—$1.50 per couple.

Particulars—Informal yet a BIG
dance.

Music will be provided by Jerry

Naugler and—not three, nor five, nor
seven but TEN piece band. In addi
The World’s Best

HAMBURGERS

(Ask Wimpy)

are sold in Halifax
at the

EVANGELINE
&

Frank will serve you
 @

SPRING GARDEN ROAD
at Brenton

—.§]——

WELCOME BACK
TO DALHOUSIE!
College men, call at COLWELL’S

on Barrington Street for all your
clothing requirements.

Colwell’s can fit you with the
right clothes for all occasions—
Classwear, Sportswear and Dresswear.

Our new stock is now complete.
C.0.T.C.—We carry a full line of
Military Clothing & Accessories.

COLWELL BROS.
LIMITED

The English Shop
453-457 Barrington St. - Halifax

 

 

(Say) "99

This column does not purport to
reflect the majority opinion of the
Meds. This is a column of biased
views respectfully dedicated to the
average person none of us is.

Today our task is to welcome a
new class to Dalhousie. Our duty
is to make it as easy as possible for
the newcomers to settle down and
play an active part in Dal’s affairs,
so that they may become good people good citizens, good Dalhousians.
These tenderfeet, then, why do we
‘haze’ them? Tradition? There are
good and bad traditions.

It is easy to see the upperclassman’s point of view. He has been
hazed. Now he will haze. He forgets his duty in his eagerness. ‘Lhe
coming of these peopie means little
to him but that there will now be
more eyes to see the heights to
which he has risen. God forbid that
there be penetrating eyes in this
class lest they see that the edifice
of his fame is but a false front, imposing, but tottering on an insecure
toundation; based on time spent, rather than on good work in any fields.

A new class? Ah—our wicked

friend, not one of us, surely, will)

‘haze’ them! In this way he hopes
to show them that he is a Big Man.
When he has done this, there will be
time enough to give that illusion the
foundation it really needs. He has
always intended to do that, he wil
just stall it off a few more days.
Besides hazing is said to test the
mettle of the recruit. Does not our
welcome to those weaker rather test
our mettle? May we not feel a
little ashamed of the way we have
treated our new student friends? If
you can bear it, my friends, think
back to the time when you were a
Freshman. Remember? You were
as green as the bonnets of ’48. The
upperclassmen of your freshman
days might have been hard on you.
Were they ?

Another thing. Will it improve
the public opinion of Dal. to see
people strangely attired in unartistic,
green bonnets wandering about? Is
it ‘for the good of the col.ege’ that
you make such spectacles of your
friends? Must they advertise their
names by wearing them on their
backs on Barrington St.? College
hazings should be confined to the
campus.

Recently I asked a senior student
whether hazing is a good thing. He
said, “It is good to have something
of the kind because these ignoran:
freshmen might gain control, and

tion, a public address system will be
installed to insure that the music is
audible at all points of the Gym.
Refreshments will be served, as well
as novelties, hats, noisemakers, etc.
So, come on—everybody turn out
and treat yourselves to a really BIG
dance in true College Style and
setting.

   
 

 
 

New Method
Watch 3]
Cleaning

Guaranteed 1 year
Main Springs, $1.00

OXFORD

Jewellery Store
575 Barrington St.

       
     
   

FOR GOOD
FOOD AMID
PLEASANT
SURROUNDINGS

Drop in at

THE CAMEO

35 Spring Garden Road

 

 

 

they don’t know anything about Dal.”
To his ilk I reply that they will
learn little that is good about Dal.
by wearing green bonnets off the
campus. Moreover, they are hazed
by last year’s freshmen. If it must
be done, it should be done by those
more fitted to bear responsibility.
Again, a Freshman can’t gain control of student activities of vital
importance because he can’t be
elected to a responsible position until
the end of the year and he is a
Sophomore when he takes over.

Look at the present Sopohomore
committee. They are bearing down
on Frosh again. From 1934-8/ there
was a move to welcome the Frosh.
Last year the attempt to undermine
the move began by adoption of a
more vigorous program. ‘lhis year
the attempt continues by addition of
a few more petty rules. Why must
Frosh give out matches, walk only in
certain places, carry baskets and
wear no make-up? At Forrest campus we Meds have been at Dal. three
weeks longer than Arts. No Dal.
girls have been here and when they
return—no make-up. How can you
tell what a girl looks like with makeup when she has none? Remember
—in normal circumstances she always wears it!

Why do upperclassmen not also
wear their names on their sleeves
as they do their hearts, except in the
hazing season when they have none ?
Then Frosh might know us too! Is
it beneath our ‘dignity’? Or would
the cops nab us if they saw our
names?

I believe we should ask Frosh to
say heilo, wear class and name, attend functions but cut down on
humiliations such as regalia, forbidding cosmetics and off-campus hazing. We would improve our welcome
and our Dalhousie Spirit!

Frosh Correspondence

A Letter to the Freshman Class:

We, the Sophomore initiation committee desire to take this opportunity
to officially welcome all new students to Dalhousie. We hope your
stay at Dalhousie will be a long and
thoroughly enjoyable one.

The purpose of a college curriculum and the aim of a new student
should not be to devote all the time
of a student to study. Extra-curricular activities have an important
place in the time-table of every
student, for they assist in developing |
fellowship, and character, which are
so important in life.

During the past few days, your
time has been devoted largely to the
attainment and performance of activities long associated with Initiation.
We hope that our program of activities has served to launch you into
your College course which lies ahead.
The purpose of these activities has
been to enable you to make new acquaintances and show you a brief
glimpse of College life. We count
each one of you as a friend. We
hope you can say the same of us.

During the week which lies ahead,
we hope you will govern yourselves
according to the dictates of reason
and diplomacy, and that you will
supply us with the same support and

| fairness which you have so gener
ously given during the past week.

(Sgd.) The Sophomore Initiation
Committee.
Inez Smith
Kay Hicks
Edmund Morris
Bob Swansburg

 

 

SHOES

For College wear or for

the Dance are better at
WALLACE’S.

The Student’s Shoe Store

Wallace Bros.

“Specialists in Fitting”

415 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

| Sophs.
|in how one refrains in using his

October 6, 1939

POST MORTEM

Gather round me Freshmen for I,
the ghost of the flunking frosh, one
hoary with age and burdened with
the wisdom of the ages, speak unto
you. I, who have been here in durance vile since time was young, hope
to shield you from that which is to
come. Such an ignorant, truculant
body are far beneath my efforts, but
I am urged on by the sad and
slightly gruesome memories of former trials and tribulations. Your
relations to your temporary lords
and masters would be much simplified if, as the gods and mortals of
mythology, you were separated by
an impassable gulf. Unfortunately
as you the Frosh erupt, spout, and
generally “‘sound off’ in the midst of
your betters there must always be
friction.

In viewing your varied ranks I am
loath to confess that the Sophs have
certain reasons for their judging of
you as a class of Calibans. The
¥reshman class unfortunately suffers
from an almost fatal dose of local
“talent”. (Would to Heaven it has
been localized elsewhere.) These
bonhommes, who were graduated,
eliminated, or in some way departed
from such eminent institutions as
H.C.A., blunder into your midst, onto
a campus and surroundings already
familiar to them and for that or
some other vague reason expect to
reign supreme. There is little difficulty in detecting them among you
for in the hails their talk is the
loudest, they incessantly shout to
their ex-playmates. In the class
rooms they sit in a group asking
what they fondly imagine to be intelligent questions and what to
everyone else seems to be unnecessary interruptions. On the parades
they are the most prominent, running on the outskirts of the crowd,
foremost in damage and destruction.
Once having noticed this gang I was
encouraged to observe them further,
and Wednesday night, as I hovered
in the drizzle about you my ‘convictions were strengthened by the sight
of the local-born blowhards using a
well-intended theatre parade to vent
their obvious desire for vandalism.
Apparently they have whatever fun
there is to be had and the rest of
the Freshman class pay the piper.
As one of your number said, “Someone’s making suckers out of us”.
He thought it was the Sophs but—

Another function of this gang is
to run the Freshman elections. Examine, if you will the names up for
the executive of the Freshman class
and I believe that you will find that
not more than two o fthe ten are
from outside Halifax, either freshmen or freshettes. You might well
ask how this was allowed to happen.

Briefly, these local students ran
together and being united they
nominated candidates and _ their
clamor made it seem as though the
whole freshman body was _ behind
them. They in return might tell you
that the rest of the Frosh had every
chance to elect others but the majority neither knowing their fellows
nor known by them, remained inactive. I, your humble ethereal
servant, do not venture to prophesy
as to the fitness of the thus-appointed for only time will provide that
answer.

This group which holds you in
contempt because you do not walk
nor talk with their boldness or as- /
surance, because your surroundings
are strange and new to you, because
you look to Dalhousie for a great
opportunity and a rich new experience rather than a playground, are
your greatest internal weakness and
I warn you against them. The Freshman class of ’48 will never make a
place for itself if it is ruled by a
group that in assembly gives an
H.C.A. yell as often as a Dalhousie
cheer. There must be unity and
equality among you; so leave your
former school to its new blood, because your strength and loyalty now
belong to Dalhousie.

Now that I have forwarded and
forearmed you let us turn again to
your more popular grievance, the
It is said that greatness lies

power over others rather than how
he uses it. The Sophs only lately
(Continued on page 6)

 

 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
    
   
    
    
   
     
    
   
   

 

 

GREAT GAME EXPECTED!
RALSTON NEW COACH

Tomorrow is the day! Bengal mettle will be put to the
cS as Pct when the Tigers swing into action against Fred Kelly’s
_ Acadia Axemen. For two weeks, under the able supervision of
Fr Coach Burnie Ralston, the Dal team has been worked into tiptop shape. The easy triumph on Wednesday shows that this is
- one of the strongest teams in years. This is how the team
et saeeks up and more power to them!

JACK KERR: Height 5’8”. Weight ‘ ‘

Rey, Before coming to Dal, Fack | Dalhousie Fortunate

BE siayed at Mount Allison. Has been; Dalhousie is indeed fortunate to
. _ with the Tigers for three years. One| have procured the services of Bur
b Fy: of the smallest men on the team, he! nett A. Ralston to fill the post

has the reputation of being one of | vacated by Sven A. Korning, former

e the best heelers in the province.| Physical Director at Dal.

Be Favorite position is in the front line} Burnie is a well known Maritime

A - scrum. athlete. His career in senior sport

“CLUTCH” McKIMMIE: Height starter at Acadia where he obtained
2". Weight 162. This is Clutch’s his B.Sc. At Acadia he was for
‘ second year as tail-up with the four years a member of the football,
‘Tigers. Before coming here he play- basketball, and baseball teams. He
iia Acadia Axemen. He is fast, | W@5 also active in all other sports
aggressive, scrum man, and likes while at the valley college.

tail-up better than other place in the The new instructor then came to
game Dal for a year’s post graduate work

ve and while here starred on the footi anny ree en oe ball and basketball teams. Since
ae sulaon Pri “ ea ee rsit leaving Dal he has been active both
pag eicetietieg he 4 fa as a player and coach in his home
‘He is 5’7” in height, and weighs 130 ae. 1 Apt ageing eat oo
lbs. One of the fastest men on the | 78 ? ‘ek
h ted forshia heady piiy- team, holders of the New Brunswic
team, e is no il il the full- title for the past two years.
ee P a a. ee: T pdiiticnn | In basketball, he has been on the
a ’

Maritime championship team for the
ee ae ee ar past four years. Burnie has had
m to

. o» | much experience in conducting all
_ _JROD IDESON: Height 5’ 8”, types of ca.isthenics and gymnastics.

re ¥ pe Weick 162.. This is Rod’s fourth! W. has coached swimming and life
vest: with the Bengals. Before com- saving, tennis, hockey, and soccer,
ing here he starred with the Acadia track, softball, and volleyball.

_Axemen. He is a fast, heady player, All in all, a more suitable all round
a “ and excels in the front line of the! athlete and coach would be difficult
= si scru Although put out last yea. to find.. Championships seem to foi_ due te a aniuey he is back again this iow Burnie and Dalhousie feels con| tter shape than ent 8 _. | fident that they will follow him here.

Me i

x,
Ae ety
4a

<aeg

ml 2
ae
7 =e

1%

i

 
   

 
 

     
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
 

 

 

vit Bp. BIRD: Although in his first
abe. S| year at Dalhousie, he shows promise

AX | being one of the best. fullbacks

Although n yt; one | ever to show in the province. A fine

en.on the. sion & Lae kicker, . vicious. tackler, and rarely
; r his lack or speed. wit. fumbles. the. ball. He is noted for
his aggressiveness. lays, either lock his heady playing and is expected to.
or front line serum position. ‘ereatly bolster the Tigers backfield.
‘SID Pp AUKBR: Height. Be, REG EATON: Height 5’ 9”.
iF Weight 166. Sid hails trom. Rae Weight 156. With Acadia for four.
York, where he playea nigh schoo, | Years sthis is Reg’s second year as
ball. He is one of the tastest and pick for the Dalhousie team. A good

  

   
  
  
  
  

most rugged players ot the squaa, tackler, and very aggressive, Reg |

 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
 
     
   
 
 
   
  
  
      
    
    
   
  

. likes to play the pick position.

me playing at the wing three-quarter
position. ‘his is his third year with} MARTY McDONALD: Height 6’.

the Gold- and Black squad. A fine Weight 160. Comes to Dal from St.

‘kicker, good ball handser, and good| Mary’s where he played high school

tackler, Sid is one of the outstanding Cae a is one of a fastest
players on this year’s team. and tricklest runners on the team,

lli 3
“SOLLY” CHERNIN: ‘“Solly” excelling at the wing three-quarter

Ber" Icaticd Kis~football at’ Glace Bay position and in broken field running.
High. He is 5’9” in height and
weighs 163. This is his first year at
Dal. Before coming here, he played
_ two years with Mount Allison. Exmee _ ¢els at the three-quarter position.

He is fast, rugged, a good teacher,
and a fine ball handler.

DON STOREY: This is Don’s!
fourth year as a scrum man at Dal.
He is 5’10” in height and weighs 170.| Weight 173. Last year Charlie playOne of the most aggressive players ed the block position with Dal
on the team, Don plays at either| Seniors. Before coming here he
the tail-up or front line positions.| played with Mount Allison. He is a
A former Mt. A. man, he is always | good, clean, fast player, and is noted
on the ball, and is a good tackler| for his aggressiveness.

seldom makes mistakes with the ball.

BERT VAIL: Last year with the
Dal Cubs, Bert this year graduates
to senior ranks. Plays at tail-up or
lock positions. He is 6/1” in height,
and weighs 175. A good tackler, he
is one of the most aggressive men
on the team.

CHARLIE BURKE. Height 5/11.

 

Very aggressive, a fine tackler, he |

 

 

  
 
 
 
  

and a a heady" play player. (Continued on page six)

THE GR. GRAPEVINE rae ee

 

 

 

silt eacibel SAAETTE

Random Ramblings

I was talking to Bain Munro about
swimming at Dal this year. He says
that we will have a much stronger
team this year than last. This is
good news, for last year’s team was.
no slouch. Any student interested
in swimming is asked to communicate with Bain.

The interfaculty sports meet may
have to be postponed this year, according to interfaculty manager
Doug Cameron, because it conflicts
with the invitation Inter-varsity
meet to be held here on Oct. 17.

One line in the football schedule
reads, Oct. 7, Dalhousie vs. Acadia
at Acadia. This bare statement
brings to mind the fact that everyone must go to Acadia on Saturday.
Dalhousie has a powerhouse of a
team this year, and is picked to give
Acadia the whipping of their lives.

Ralph Plummer, D.A.A.C. Presi
dent says ‘Dal by three tries!” This |

GIRLS’ SPORTS

Well, of course nothing has started
yet but as usual we have high hopes
for the year ahead. Phyl. Wray is
back with us and has already started
the good work—she does sort of get
into things and makes you like it.

The first meeting of the D.G.A.C.
will be held on Tuesday at noon.
Reta Harrison is president and
would like all the freshettes to be
there so they ‘ean find out just what
girls sport at Dal is about.

and it is the best one we have heard
yet; a Dal riding club. Mr. Zwicker,
head of the Halifax Riding Club has
suggested that Dal, as well as the
other schools around, have a club,
if reasonable prices could be arrang- |
ed and were sure they can be. It

looks as if the thing will come off. |

Mr. Zwicker wants at least ten in a
class and we already have more girls
than that who want to join.

seems to be the common opinion| Wants boys in the class—sounds like

both on and off the campus.

Burnie Ralston has had the boys
working hard for the past two weeks
and holds the opinion that they are
approaching mid-season form. Let’s
all be on hand to cheer the team to
the first of a long string of victories
at Acadia on Saturday.

 

Cubs Play Tomorrow

Dalhousie Cubs will open their
campaign for top-honors in the City
Intermediate Rugby League at Acadia tomorrow when they clash with
the Acadia seconds. The intermediate league will operate this year
with only one section composed of
five teams representing Dal, Truro,
King’s, Wanderers, and Acadia.

A new feature of the league will |
be the inauguration of a new point
system, King’s and Truro receiving
six points for a win and three for a
tie, the others receiving five points
for a win and two and a half for
a draw. ;

The schedule follows:

Oct. 7—Dalhousie at Acadia.

Truro at Wanderers.

Oct. 9—Wanderers at Dalhousie.
King’s at Truro.

Act. 14—Acadia at Wanderers.

Dalhousie at King’s.

 

Oct. 21—Acadia at Dalhousie.
Wanderers at King’s. !

Oct. 25—Wanderers at Acadia. |
Dalhousie at Truro.

Oct. 28—Dalhousie at Wanderers.

King’s at Acadia.
Nov. 1—Acadia at Truro. |
Nov. 4—Truro at King’s.

 

Inter-Varsity Meet

An invitation track meet is to be|
held on the Dalhousie Track on
October 17. Already invitations have
been extended to Acadia, Mount
Allison, St. Dunstan’s, St. F. X., St.
Thomas’, U.N.B., King’s Tech, and
St. Mary’s. A fall track meet is a/|
new departure in the Maritimes. It|
consists of fourteen events, includ-|
ing the hurdles, which have been a/|
lost art in collegiate circles for the
past several .years. It is expected |
that a full holiday will be granted |
by the authorities.

In preparation for this meet, track |
practices will be held by Coach

 

‘Ralston every afternoon at 5 o’clock.

 

| Mt. A.

'Acadia tomorrow.

*THE COeT.Ce

fun doesn’t it?
One of the first things to get)

under way as soon as the medical
exams are over will be ground
hockey. The team has gradually
been improving in the past few years
and here’s hoping it continues to do
so. We tried to arrange an intercollegiate league but as Acadia and
weren’t ready it was impossible.

We hope, however, to get in our
usual games with Ladies’ College
and Edgehill—those trips to Windsor
are great. Ground hockey is one|
game in which we want all the people we can get so we expect lots
of freshettes. Tis true that the first
practise nearly kills you but the
game is easy to learn and a great
sport.

 

This season is one of opportunities
for any girl who has a desire to
make the tennis team, because three
of the five members of last year’s
team have graduated. The girls at
Shirreff Hall have-all been contacted
and given a chance to show their
ability but the team has not yet been
chosen. Therefore any city girl who

_plays tennis and is interested in the

team, either for this season or suc
| ceeding seasons, still has time to do

so by getting in touch with Carly
Sullivan at Shirreff Hall.

Football Schedule

Dalhousie Tigers wiil clash with
, Acadia Axemen in the opening tilt
‘of the City Senior Rugby League at |

Dal, with its strongest team in|
years, is confident of victory.

This year a new team, the United |
Services, will round out a four team |
league with Acadia, Wanderers, and |
Dalhousie.

Oct. 7—Dalhousie at Acadia,
Services at Wanderers.

9—Wanderers at Dal.

14—Acadia at Wanderers.
Acadia at Services.

21—Wanderers at Services.

te ea ee a

He also}

 

 

 

 

Acadia at Dal. |
25—Wanderers at Acadia. |
28—Dal. at Wanderers. |

Services at Acadia.
Nov. + —Hervices at Dal.

 

by Guonte

‘K: — O-K: — DON'T LET |
IT HAPPEN AGAIN/]| |

STARTS TRAINING +

NE EE rE Fe
> - '

H WITH AXEMEN TOMORRO

 

Horseback Riding

Dave a rh

Romig ter Gane NS darth deen eae ees ;
; eee 
Page Five

 

 

TENNIS
| Candidates for this year’s tennis

One sport which has never been | team are asked to get in touch with

tried at Dalhousie is horseback riding. Miss Wray has been approached
by several students and has made
enquiries at The Halifax . Riding
Club. She is of the opinion that a
Dalhousie Riding Club could be formed for a very reasonable fee.

During organization, Miss Wray
has consented to explain the facts
more fully to all those interested.

Go and see her at her office in the |

; , | Sym.
A new idea has come up this year

Notice: There are still seats on
the bus for the trip to Acadia. Those

with the necessary fee ($1.00 is the |

required amount) please get in touch
with either “Red” Payne or Tom
Laidlaw. Everybody out that can

make it!

 

| Manager Forbes Mountain or Professor C. H. Mercer. Though several
of last year’s racketeers are ineligible, it is hoped that good turnouts
will attend the practice sessions. To
be eligible for the team this year, a
candidate must first challenge one of
the members of last year’s team.
This Saturday Dalhousie will play an

| exhibition match with the Cathedral

Tennis Team, and other practice
matches will be arranged before the

| Intercollegiate Tennis Playdowns roll

around.

 

Notice: Everybody out on Wednesday, October 11, to hear Dr. Michael
A. Heilperin speak on “The Position
of Western Northern Neutrals in

 

| the Present Conflict”. The place:

| the Gymnasium. The time: 8.30 p.m,
4a SS

 

 

There’s Always a Good Show at the CASINO

 

SEE THE SHOW AT THE GARRICK
Big Double Bill — You’ll Enjoy It!

 

 

 

 
  

37 Blowers Street

 

 
   
    
   
   
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
  

THE PEN

With a Point to

Style of Writing

DALHOUSIE. STUDENTS |
| We Invite You to Make

 

FOR STUDENTS
STARTS IN A FLASH
suit each Individual

What a gift for back to school! What pens for
business and the home! The newest Waterman’s are the best “buys” of Waterman’s 55
years of world leadership. Size for size, no
other pen has as much gold in the point .

or holds as much ink. And the quality besides
is the style leader, too. The smartest people
on the campus and about town prefer
Waterman’s restrained styling—never flashy
—hever conspicuous. Your favorite store will
show you a wide variety. Priced from $3.00

    

 
  
 

         
 

 
 

Your Flower.
Shop. |

Telephone B-7062

    
   
      

 

     
 

..- HERE'S THE QUALITY PEN
yaterman’s

 

 

5

FOR HER,

  

World-Famous
WATERMAN'’S INKS

15¢

 

nerE
eli Bul hs ORD Ae, LLY LS ry: ie)

Choose Your New Waterman Pen

    

from EATON’S Assortments - = =

“T. EATON

RIT tI

LIMITED

 

 
  

ear os war thas been refor the addition of a new
| le curriculum of Dalne peat of the Canadian
ining Corps, long active
o “will be increased by a
oY or of pntietens dusies and

tive ee what is yet to come.
- the enlistment this year has
ssed the 200 mark, and by the end
of the — week is expected to be appre »ximately 300 men.
- Bess ‘The Officers’ Training Corps
aa 2 ourse at Dalhousie and adjoining
King’s Universities this term will be
__ known as “Military Science”, and
an be recognized as a college course
- of one year’s normal duration. One
University eredit in the Faculty of
‘Arts and Science will be granted to
fed. those who register for the course
Coe ie and pass the examinations of First
ae Lieutenant. Undergraduates and
f ee ta "graduates alike are eligible to enroll
* nt Ais ; for the course.
et hts “The aim of the University
: if OG, read Battalion orders posted
i Le recently, “is to select and train
- sound officer material and to prevent
such being sacrificed in the ranks.”
_ The orders further state: “Service
in the Dalhousie-King’s C.O.T.C.
Unit is purely voluntary and members” of the unit are bound by no
oath to enroll in the Canadian or
other Active Service Force after
their period of training is complete.”
_ The order, signed by Commanding
‘Officer, Major R. E. R. Cattley, of
_--—- the:“~‘University faculty, announced
_ that the course as at present contem‘plated i is comprised as follows: One
evening parade per week of two
hours duration, a two hour lecture
"period and one practical period of
_ two hours, making six hours of
“Military Science” a week. ;
ene _ The unit will be in two companies,
Bs Dalhousie or “A” Company, and
bien ing” gs or “BP ey “The

  

i:
oe |

}
Bon
ie |

ag a ty
j re aan
«<_ gk

   

of o Enlist i in c AS, T. C.

 

eaelaerres MEET—
(Continued from page one)

| on to choose a team for intercol

enters a play in the Connolly Shielc
trials after Christmas.

' Phyllis Wray, physical instructres:
legiate debates. The society also
for the women at Da.housie, spoke
on behalf of the D.G.A.C. in the
absence of its president, Ret Harri.

|son, who was unable to be present.

She told the girls about women’s
sports, and hoped that there would
be a good turnout for the basketball,
tennis, and badminton teams.

Freda Cahan, the freshette representative, also spoke. She explained
to the freshettes the real meaning of
college spirit, and encouraged their
enthusiastic support of all women’s
activities. Her intention is to look
after your interests, freshettes, so
don’t hesitate to ask her anything
you want to know.

At the next meeting of Delta
Gamma, to be held at Shirreff Hall
probably during the last week in
October, the freshettes will be formally welcomed into the society.
There will also be a special speaker,
and refreshments will be served. All
freshettes are expected to attend.

The officers are as follows:

Pres. Delta Gamma: Joan Blackwood
Secty.-Treas.: Barbara Schwartz
Pres. D.G.A.C.: Reta Harrison
Freshette Repres.: Freda Cahan.

C.0.T.C. OFFERS—

(Continued from page one)
speakers and they listened most intently to what was said by both
gentlemen. At the conclusion of the
talks many of the men signed up
with the officers who were present.

In speaking of the pay that the
men will receive for their service,
Major Cattley stated that the same
rates of pay as those which were in
effect last year will be carried out.
Additional pay may be received by
those wishing to qualify and spending much more time than was formerly spent on the course. He also
defended the university’s right to
' | charge for the course on the grounds
‘|that the institution is recognizing
the course as an optional subject on

a: ‘the curriculum. To those who hold

 
  
  
      
 
  

: preparing ‘thein.
se country’s call if their

sk serviees 4 are ever required. It is to
Po be hoped that all Canadian UniverS sity students will join in this nationBs wide movement to train to protect

ah ‘hamiselves and their homes.

- aa Pe

~~ (Continued from page four)
__—-— risen from your lowly state seek to
’ bolster their pride and self-esteem
by demonstrating their superiority
over you. One of the most obnoxious forms which this demonstration
takes is the wholesale wreckage of
_ rooms after which one’s living quarters look like a cross between the
path of a tidal wave and the contents
of a little boy’s pockets. If the

   

    

 

this they should go to the circus and
“sass” the midgets or make loud
speeches to some inoffensive mirror.
Apart from these small people who
‘would make you feel junior to the
house cat and as irresponsible as |
children, your betters are pretty good’
fellows, or too busy to give a damn
about such no-accounts as freshmen.
So thus I the ghost of the flunking
frosh leave you to your futile joys
and sorrows and will speak again
only when a warning is necessary.
* * *
This must not be taken in any way
aimed at H.C.A., B.H.S. or the mab * jority of its students or graduates,
_- either here at college or elsewhere.
For both of these schools rank high
eS among provincial institutions. It is
a comment on those who act on the
assumption that H.C.A. and Dalhousie are synonymous.
oo A friend of Yancey’s.

 

e

 

as: 1 Insist on
Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

| W. H. DONOVAN
1 _ 45 GRANVILLE ST. B-6821

| i. ms ; ‘\

    

 

“ A”

Sophs need such moral boosts as).

| | ¥.M.C. A, BLDG.

RY certificates at the

‘present the Major stated that they

or

ily | did not need to qualify again for a

commission in the forces in the
Dominion but those wishing to take.
the exams again would be permitted
to do so. .
He stated clearly that the unit is
essentially an infantry one and that
the training received is for infantry

work. He also said that infantry | Mr.

work contains the basic principles
which is about eighty per cent of the
required knowledge for any branch
of the armed forces. Thus the
course will contain the essentials of
all that is needed, except technical
training, for any branch of the
army.

The hours for parade were laid out
and have been posted. The schedule
is such that both the Kings and Dal
units will have the full benefit of
the large Gym floor.

The course will be divided into
three parts. The first will be the
regular Monday night drill. A lecture course will be given on either
Tuesday or Wednesday evenings.
Practical field work will be handled
on one of Thursday, Friday or Saturday afternoons.

There will be shooting practice at
the Bedford ranges before the winter
comes. There has also been a smal!
range erected in the basement of the
Archives building that will be used
for practice. A full parade of the
whole company will be held some
Saturday afternoon in the near
future to watch some regulars ir
action.

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS
Eyes Tested — Glasses Made

"lf You Want to See

 

Well See Wallace’

HALIFAX

 

 

Visit Our ivcie Bar

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

j 2 EC re le eT r

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
      
   
    
   
    
      
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   

~ Christian Movement

as

 

The S.C.M. will hold its first meeting next week, either on Tuesday
or Wednesday night.

The purpose of this first meeting
is to discuss plans for the year, to
arrange study groups, and to welcome new members, both Freshmen
and Upperclassmen. It is hoped that
we will have an out-of-town speaker
to harangue on some subject of interest. After the meeting refreshments will be served and an opportunity given for people to get
acquainted with one another.

It is unfortunate that no place is
available on the campus for a really
comfortable meeting.’ (Where is the
Student Union Building?) Hence

we are obliged to desert our own pain Munroe; Rugby, Gordon Hen- _ Unit to four companies instead of |

surroundings for the night and in
.
vade St. Andrew’s Hall. .
}

Further details will be found on
the notice boards.

THE TEAM—
(Continued from page 5)

CLAYTON HUTCHINS:
165 lbs. an all round athlete starring
formerly for King’s.
second year on the Dalhousie team.
Playing on the three-quarter line, a

him,
NORMAN MacRITCHIE: 6
220 lbs.

4’.

King’s where he has been a tower |
of strength for the last few years.
Fast for his size and a_ splendid
kicker he will be a great addition to
the team this year.

BY-ELECTION TUESDAY— |

(Continued from page one) :

vacant by the resignation of Kay
Hicks. All members of the Arts and
Science Society may register their
choice between the candidates: Inez
Smith and John McInnes.

Due to the resignationof Gordon
Heisler a new president must be
chosen for the Glee Club. The candidates are yet to be announced. All
students may vote.

Third and last is hes post of
council representative from the PostGrads. George McKnight and Blair
Purves are the candidates. Members
of the Post-Grads society will do the
voting.

NEW NAMES ON—

(Continued from page one)

been appointed Lecturer

Rhodes Scholar at Oxford where he
received the degree of Bachelor of
Civil Law.

Dr. C. A. Yeo has ee appointed |
lecturer in the Classics Department
for the year. Dr. Yeo is well known |
on the campus, having during two
jecs ee years lectured in Classics
at King’s College.

Special lecturere in Accounting in.
the Commerce Department for the |

ensuing year is Mr. E.
Crowell.

Mr. Burnett A. Ralston succeeds
Professor Korning as Physical Instructor and director of the gymnasium.

The Rev. J. P. C. Fraser has been
recently appointed special lecturer in
Biblical Literature for the year.

Substituting for Professor Gautheron for a few weeks is Mrs Coffin,
wife of Dr.*C. C. Coffin of the
Chemistry Department.

Mr. Ian MacKeigan of Halifax, a
graduate of Dalhousie University,
(M.A. 735, LI.B.
McKay’s classes for a few weeks.

Harvey

 

 

| ee, Normal

Final statistics for enrollment will
not be available until the next issue
of the Gazette. However, indications are that registration will be
only slightly under that of last year
—an encouraging piece of news in
the face of recent events.

A glance over the list of new
| Seadenite shows representation from
such outlying points as_ British |
uae Alberta, Ontario, Quebec,
Newfoundland, New Jersey, N’yock
| N’yock, Massachusetts, and a pair of |

 

wee gerlies frae’ Edinburgh, Scot
rE Se =

5/10”...

This is Hutch’s |

good runner and kicker, Clayton ap- |
pears to have a good year ahead of |

One of the best backs in|
the game, MacRitchie comes from | of Major Cattley and himself in

in Law. |
Findlay was a Nova Scotian

38) is taking Dr.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Arts Science Meet

Presided over by the irredoubtable
Don MacKeigan, the Arts and
Science Society met Tuesday noon,
October 5th, for the first meeting of
the term.

As soon as the latecoming frosh
were seated and the president had
explained to them that they had no
vote until Christmas, new officers
and committees were elected as
follows: Sec.-Treas., John Windebank; Nominations for representative to Students’ Council, John McInnes and Inez Smith; representative
to D.A.A.C., Bain Munro; Special:

 

————— ——
: = 7

oe <<

NOTICE
President Stanley will
members of the University, Thursday noon, October 12, in the Gymnasium. New students and new
members of the teaching staff are
particularly invited.

 

NOTICE
The first Glee Club Show will be
/presented on Thursday, October 12,
at 8.00 p.m.

 

C.0.T.C. MEETING FRIDAY
A meeting of graduates who have

signed or who intend to sign with

the Officers Training Corps will be

 

Events Committee, Doug MacKean,
Webster Macdonald, Betty Sandall.
Managers of Inter-faculty sports:
Basketball, Clarence Fraser; Hockey, |

nigar; Softball, Bob Swanburg, Soc- |
cer, Otto Antoft (loud applause for.
_the last mentioned).

Presidential remarks ensued which
indicated the intention of promoting |
special activities such as that of |
making available opportunities of
practice and training in public
speaking for amateur orators.

Oratory of no amateur nature exploded on the hitherto quiet meeting
/when Lloyd Dalton and Doug McKean discussed the question of possible conflict of C.0.T.C. and other
gym activities. A roar of surprise |
greeted the announcement of the)
former that “there was a war on” |
and he offered the full cooperation |

 

 

 

ironing out any difficulties arising |
from C.QO.T.C. occupation of the!
Gym. Mr. McKean indicated with |
emphatic finality that he will be on |
hand at all times to stand for the |

rights. of other campus organiza-_|

tions and won acclaim from ied

meeting.

NOTICE

Will all interfaculty sports managers please leave their names,
addresses, and telephone numbers,
with Doug Cameron at the Gazette
Office within the next few days. If.
the various faculties have not appointed managers for interfaculty
sport as yet, woulld they please do
at once, and notify the interfaculty
manager as to whom has been appointed.

held at the Gym. at 8 p.m. Friday.

Application is being made to the
government for an increase of the
strength of the Dalhousie-King’s

two as originally planned.
Approximately three hundred men

are enrolled to date and a large en- |

listment is expected after the Friday |

meeting. All interested are asked tc |

be on hand.

eee

address

|

 

BIRKS |

Students’ requirements in
jewellery and gifts are ready
at Birks.

Just now a fine assortment of pens and pencils is
proving popular.

Waterman, Parker, Sheaffer, Eversharp—all guaranteed.

HENRY BIRKS &
SONS LIMITED
Diamond Merchants

Halifax, N. S

—.

~

Special Rates to Students
24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone B-6992

MGSO RN DS ae
fas page <>
,

 

THE BEST MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

 

 

 

 

 

GAUVIN & GENTZEL

 

 
       
    

Night At
9 0'clock

|

tion and rates.

a

Every Sunday

tre charges when teleph

that occur every
sezecol and collece
contacis the
groups can
minutes a

ke

~

She'll gladly serve you.

This “ielephene visit” between a college lad
and his paren’s at heme is typical of dozens
cay and evening throughout
terms,
are brightene a i immeasurably by the
Telephone provides.
fully united for
as often as desired, no matter what
. stances may divide them. If preferred, aksent children may reverse
oning home, so that they will apnear en the
home telephone bill. Just ask our Long Distance Gperator for informe
 

Such separations
intimate

Family
precious

MARITIME TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE
COMPANY, LIMITED

 
