 

ie Meet Navy
In Big Game

P|
’:

 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   

 

 
 

NAVY

— — — See Sports

 

Vol. 79 :

 

 

OOTBALL T

 

 

 

 

 

Dalhousie’s Fighting Football Tigers hammered and pounded
the highly-rated Dartmouth Air Station squad into submission at
Wanderers grounds last Saturday, led by the brilliant, sometimesunbelievable work of the “‘beef trust,” and the hard running of Bob

MacDonald and Bob Wilson,

In the last quarter the Air
Arm squad folded up like a tent
before a hurricane, and the rampant tigers ripped through their
Gisorganized forward wall for
long gains. Seven Air Station
players were removed from the

field for repairs before the Burk
har, machine was stopped by the
elnsing whistle.

Sometime next week at a date
yet to be decided upon by the
league executive Dalhousie’s league-leuding entry will clash with
the land-locked sailors of H. M.
C. 8. Stadacona — the Navy —
in a game that should settle the
question, “Who has the heavier
kine?” Actually, the Navy are
not land-locked — nine of the
players on their first team are
crew members of H. MC. S.
Warrior and will be at sea until
October 27.

The game will be played either
Wednesday, Oct 29, or Saturday, Nov. 1, at Studley Field.
According to an announcement
by John McCormack, president of
the Halifax Canadian Football
League, seating arrangements
will be well-handled — extra
stands are being brought down
from the Commons.

MORNING CHAPEL ?

A meeting of students interested in®imorning chapel being
held for Dalhousie students heard
Dean Wilson speak on the subject Tuesday noon, Oct 21, in
the new lecture room in the basement of the Arts building.

It was decided that another
meeting be held next Tuesday
Oct. 28 at the same time, in the
same room. All those interested
have been requested to attend,
and it is expected that a large
attendance will be present.

ELECT OFFICERS

Members of committees for
the annual Engineers banquet

- and ball were elected at last

Tuesday’s meeting of the Engireering Society The meeting,
_ (Continued on page 8)

 

BURCHELL BAND
RATED EXCELLENT:

 

First of a series of tea dance
te be held in the Common Room
cf the Men’s Residence was held
last Saturday evening, with
Denny Burchell’s Band supply’. =
the music,

Cokes and sandwiches were
provided, and members of ‘hie
feotball tearn were admitted fr- :.
The tea dance was held from
5 p. m. to 7 p. m., and the real
toe-crusher started up again at
9 o’clock in the evening and Jast
ed until midnight A’ large crowd
was in attendance and many of
those present expressed themsei
_ves as being keenly pleased with

the tea-dance program.

It is to be hoped, said one
spectator, that these dances will
become a regular institution.
They do a great deal] to fill in
the entertainment gap on the
campus.

GERS LEADING

FRIDAY OCTOBER 2

LL LLL I

PAINT PLOT UNCOVERED

Vandals Smear

 

Pharos Editor —

Announcement was made reeently by the Student Council
that Ron Coldwell, (above) Dalhousie law student, in his firs.
year of law, and former Editor
of the Acadia Year Book, “The
Axe,” has been appointed Edito
In-Chief of Dalhousie’s “Pharos,”

Mr Coldwell took over the
reins of office last Monday, and
wishes it to be announced that he
~ looking for additions to the
staff of the year book. Don Morrison, well-known former Dalhousie student, is expected to bh.
steff photographer.

_e
4 F F
‘
:

 

 

 

4

LEAGUE

 

POOR
OLD
ACADIA

— — — See Sports

 

 

No. 4

 

 

Redlands Park

 

Gold and Black are the predominant colors at the Wanderers
grounds this week, rather than the Red and Black colors of the City
club. This is due to no change in policy by the Wanderers organization, but rather to the act of some vandal, or vandals, who smeared
yellow and black paint on practically every wooden surface in the

park,
—— aed

LIBERAL CLUB TO
HEAR PREMIER

 

Angus L. MacDonald, Nova
Seotia Premier, will address an
audience of students at the Ch:'ristry theatre, Science building,

Wednesday, Oct. 29, according to
a recemt announcement by M. A.
Mears, Dalhousie Students Counec.) publicity director.

The topic, one of interest to
students generally, will be one
in which the Premier has had
considerable experience. All stu
dents are urged to attend by the
Canadian University Liberal Association of Dalhousie,

This marks the first sign of
ac.ivity .. Daincusie University
Folitical clubs, and should be
followed by announcements of
farther guest appearances and
meetings in the near future.
Three political clubs were active
on the campus last year.

 

Mae. WHERE VANDAES SMEARED THE SCORE BOARD AND DALHOUSIE

— — A Host Of Golden Numerals — —

' jst matty i yer ek fhe :
J ¥ Sk el FEI ete we ime
Ra eget FL nde ete Nae

(3

 

The Wanderers Club officials
are of the opinion that the painting ‘was done during the late
hours of Friday night. Whenever
the work was carried out, it was
carried out efficiently,

Even stripes of yellow ané&
black were painted on the goak
posts, the word “Dalhousie” was
lettered on the cross bar, 10 feet:
above the ground, the letters.
“Dal” were rudely splashed on:

one of the radio broadeasting:

booths and again on the roof of
the Wanderers Club house. Most
evident of all, however, was thepainting job done on the newlyerected scoreboard, Black and
yellow paint was smeared indincriminately across the expensive
structure, and an enormous score:
was chalked up for Dalhousie.

Persons in official positions.
felt that it was the work of highspiziiea walnou-ie students, but.
oth.ers feci that :5 was done merely to cast discredit on this un-iversicy. Per:a;s time will tell,


DEBATERS MEET

Restrictions and regulations
will be more binding in the Maritime Intercollegiate Debating:
Society this year, according toBob Kaill, vice-president of So-dales, and Colin Smith, publicity
agent, who attended the recent.
M. I. D. L, Conference at Sackville.

The league schedule will be:
completed in time for the winning entry to contest in the Canadian Debating Championships.

 

WIN SCHOLARSHIPS

Five Dalhousie students, a/l
former R. C, A. F_ Air Crew
members, have been awarded
Wings Club Scholarships, according to a recent announcement hy
the Senate. The scholarships are
of the value of $300 each, and
are tenable for the session 194748,

Those receiving the scholacships were; W_ B. Dalrymple, J
S, Dodge, C. K. Hoyt, J. E, A.
MacDonald, H. B. Rhude.

 
  
 
  

 
       

ae a

   

 
 
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

‘CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
: Editor-in-Chief
| LEW MILLER
Business Manager
5 AL..RUBIN
cz ae iS . 3 Sports F
+ News. , | eatures
ware suck BOB TUCK ART MOREIRA
ee ve te ae COX KEN PHELPS KARL WEBBER
BILL LOVATT “G UWP. Editor . CLAIR KNIGHT
1S AL LOMAS JOHN TRIM
wehakge Manager Circulation M. : os Ass’t Business Mer.
: meerHGWAS ROBIN MacLEAN

  

D. SADOFSKY

 

Co-ed Sports
RENY FISHER

 
 

Proof Readers

Bie SOMERS PRIKLER 2
\ NI x SOBERMAN DON WALLER Co-ed Editor

C RICHTER = JOHN PARKER FRAN DOANE
CONTRIBUTORS AND REPORTERS THIS WEEK

     
 
  
      
  
   
  
  

    

Bob MacDougall, Shirreff Hall Girls, McStoop, Bob Bezanson,

ce Vol. 79 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1947 .. No. 4

4
=

 

 
 

= ain ~ CHEERING SECTION uf - “Sila seres GAZETTE staff has saber die Heeble to ask

a a number of the University athletes if the cheering of
_ their supporters helps them to fight harder, and unani_ mously the answer has been YES. We spectators, thereNy ‘fore, can actually take part in our games.
_. At present our cheer-leading section numbers only
three persons, and it was noticed last Saturday, at the
Wanderers’ Grounds, that this number is quite inadequate to control the spectators in one section. It was also
noticed that there was a lack of adequate planning in the
cheering programme. When the team most needed supes port — that is, when the other team had the ball in our
ee” territory — there was no rallying cry to let our athletes
‘know that we were not merely fair-weather supporters.
And when our team had the ball with few yards to go
sy. for a touchdown, seldom did we get behind the team to
* “bush them over.” ae ne
ear his fault, however, was not due to a lack of spirit.
eee. _ ‘“Eivery Dalhousian in the stands felt proud of the mag| “nificant team that bore the Gold and Black colors; and
few indeed were the supporters who did not have hoarse
ne -woices after the game What, then, is the answer?
. BS. “We feel that, first, the cheer-leading section should
he inéreased to at least six members, ta be clothed simlarly, anil commanded by one captain who knows the

‘game reasonably well enough to lead the cheering at the
__- most necessary times. Next, although most students are
taught the university yells during their frosh years,

irs “many students da not know them all. Also, among the
fans are many non-student Dal supporters who would
gladly join in to support our team, but refrain because
of the lask of knowledge of our yells. The cost of mimeooe graphed .sheets to be distributed among the spectators
___-would be negligible by comparison with the return that
- would be achieved in spirit.

We trust that immediate steps will be taken to remuo edying this need. When our team meets the Navy in the.
meres big game of the year we can depend that every athlete
will be doing his utmost. Let us do our share.

~~ WELL DONE - THE BAND!
"Whe could not but feel a surge of pride for our own
_ Dalhousie Band at the Wanderers’ Grounds last Satur_ day? Undaunted by the preceding professional display
of the Navy Band, our men marched on the playing field
at half-time to stir the fighting hearts of our athletes on
‘to victory. |

    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
    
 
  
  
 
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
 
  
    
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
   

es "To Ernie Heighton, and every other member of the
_. band — well done!

a
a
, s .

 

} EDITOR'S MAILBOX
CR 4 fre, cect Go
e ate | a Dear Str:
«TL should like to take exceptdon to the slanted view-point of
ae GAZETTE with reference to

its aletitude towards Russia. Both
the editorial, Democracy vs Commiunism, and the letter published
in reply, by Reader Cross, show

pa’

¢b..
\ . é

A
es.
i _

~ MILLSTONES

aa

 

by McStoop

One night we were going to
the show. We had only forty
cents. Forty cents is not enough.
We asked ourself what we
might do Ourself answered: we
can study, or we can see the
Politburo, This sounded good, so
we went to the Politburo We
went to the Henry Farmstead,
where his body sits, and entered.

| THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

This body. is very important:

people bring up things there. As
we entered, several people
thought we were a person from

~ the paper, and brought up a lot

of things. Then they gav:;
us their names, and were very
disappointed when we told them
we hadn’t taken their speeches
down.

Then a man came to bring up |

a budget He came from the Athleties Bureau; they asked if the
man from the Glum Club was
there but he wasn’t. So they took
the man from the Campus <Advertiser-- a very fine paper. The
man from the Advertiser brought
up his budget. Then the General
Seeretary interrupted :-
““Our time is valuable,” said
the General Secretary, “so I will
be brief. If you are not familiar
with the proceedure I have -an
illustration which may serve to
enlighten you. In 1898-- I was
then Editor of the .Advertiser-we had none of these modern
troubles. Our costs were low, we
were always out on time... After
a fine speech, with lots of long
words, he stopped, and the Advertiser ~passed its budget.

Then the man from Glum Club
came in late He was a good
speaker, too, and had rather a
contest with the General Secretary; “In thé matter of mustard
plasters,”. began the Glum Glnub
man, whose voice was lost in.the
boom of, the General Secretary,
“the proceedure on this matter
was simplicity itself in 1899 when
I was President of the Glum
Club.” The General Secretary
won to the extent of a half hour's
oratory. The man from the Athleties Bureau looked, we thought.
a little weary by this time He
received the sign from the President, who was woken regular!y
for the purpose of introducing
new business, and rose to his feet.
He looked relieved. He opened his
mouth. He took a deep breath...

“In matters of proceedure relating to Athletics, “said the
General Secretary, “I always remember-- when we ran up against
similar difficulties ..” As we left
Slowly, we could hear the slow,
well-modulated voice, punctuated
by the snores of the President...
“peculiar circumstances may
arise, but in general...” We
closed the door of the old Farnistead.

This was such a long time ago
tienes
a definite lack of understanding
of Russia’s idealogies. How can
the GAZETTE be so presumptmous as to declare that Russia
is a menace to the rest of the
world? .

The first editorial this year
Stated that no prejudice would
be siown.in the pages of the
GAZETTE I thought that this
statement was much too broad.
Your blast against Russia certainly shows a prejudicial view-point_
Before one accuses Russia of

(Continued on page 8)

oa

en, ae. | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1947...

EAT ACADIA

CANADA'S
FASTEST SELLING
CIGARETTE TOBACCO

Dal Off Hours

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

Maritime Business College

73 College Street

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the
seven courses are admitted as General Students.

The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursdty
7.30 to 9.30 ra | Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING

“will be valuable aid in future years

   
  
  
    
     

Enter any day. Tuition counts from date of Registration

 

THE NOVA SCOTIA |
TECHNICAL COLLEGE:

Offers Degree Courses In |
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, CHEMICAL
METALLURGICAL, AND MINING ENGINEERING Twenty Scholarships of $75, each ‘are Offered To Nova
Scotia Students holding Engineering Diplomas:
Modern Equipment,’ Instructional Staff with Individual
Experience. |

 
 

APPLY FOR CALENDAR
ALLEN E., CAMERON, PRESIDENT
Saree era nate aan eae andl te

Dalhousie University
=

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

Largest Staff, Libraries. and Laboratories in the Maritimes
: The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction
ee
Degrees of:

Dip] in:
Bachelor of Arts bile tes

Bachelor of Science Basch,
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmac
Master of Arts ¥

Hospit
Masger of Science Mute Gone

Pre-Professiona] Courses
ae

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments
in the B. Se. course about $21lu.0u a year

in the B. A. Course average a

Many vaiuable scholarships, on entrance aud seees® a

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held i
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for H a
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and Sistomn,
The Professional Faculties ee
Law, Medicine, Dentistry,
ee ee,

Inclusive Fees

enjoy an unexcelled reputation,
aN cele dca

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one
Residénces in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year me
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in eith ms
_ of two a ‘fWated institutions or in selected and approved homes ee
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service

students, .

Meals for all students are available at the
For full

of the finest Women’s

; University.
information write te THE REGISTRAR,

 
   

aa

nh

COL. LAURIE AND DEAN WILSON

— — Cokes — —

 

VOL. 79

A SING SONG

GAZ

ZETTE

— — The Weaver — —

WAS HELD AT THE ALUMNI SMOKER

DR, KERR AND RUGGLES PRITCHARD

— — Good Cheer — —

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1947

Students Forum

Takes The Air

Citizens’ Forum, the national
discussion OI inteicsuug and imporvaut vakes. the air
again WedneSday, Oct. 22, at
9.45 pm. Due to an inapproprlate topic (something to do with
raising children), and the need
for organization and publicity,
the Dal Citizens’ Forum discussion group will begin its meetings
with the second broadcast Wednesday, Oct. 29, to deal with the
highly debatable question: “Do
Jobs and Families Mix?; Should
Married Women Work?”

Last year, many lively and interesting discussions were made
deubly so by the presence of
guests professionally involved in
some of the main issues. Union
officers participated in  labormanagement discussions, and an
executive from UNNRA in discussions on European relief. Interesting guests will again be invited this year, and the pracice
of preceding the broadcast with
a half-hour movie on a related
tcpic may be resumed.

The Citizens’ Forum group will
meet regularly on Wednesday
evenings in the Murray Homestead. A radio will be supplied
for the broadcasts, the campus
experts will bore into the matters
under discussion, probably braced
by refreshments (tea, sanwiches,
ete., that is), served by Mrs.
Sykes. Watch the notice boards
for time of meetings, and current
topics.

issues,

 

McGILL STUDENTS ~
BUILD RED ROAD?

A  eontroversy has been
carried on in the columns of the
McGILL Daily

over the past two weeks. It was

with some heat

occasioned by the report of a

trip made to Jugoslavia by a
number of McGILL students during the summer, which was accumpanied by an Editorial sugthat

approach the article without pre
gesting readers shoud
judice or “preconceived notions.”
A large number of letters has
been received by the Editor on
the subject, which make interesting reading if only from the

diversity of their viewpoints.

According to the article in
cuestion, a number of students
representing different McGILL
clubs and societies attended the
World Youth Festival in Prague,

after which they proceeded to
Jugoslavia. Here they joined a

group of Canadian students called
the “Beaver Brigade” in working
on a railroad being built from Samac to Serajevo in Bosnia. The
line was being built entirely by
youth organizations of one kind
and another, particularly student
organizations.

 

RESEARCH REPORT

Dathousie students want to see
both sexes using the common
room in the Men’s residence
according to figures supplied by
Patsy Pigot, Gazette Reasearcher who interviewed members of
the student body this week.

Twelve students were in favor
of having the common room open
to girls and boys, while a mere
handful, four students, said that
only males should be allowed to
use the facilities of the room.

One student, Ken Phelps, had
a rather facetious scheme in mind
--one he seems to have been harbouring for some time. He said
“yes, the common room should
be open to girls, provided Shirreff Hall is open to men.”

Greg Comeau expressed the
opinion of most male students.
He said “yes, they have as much
right to use the common room
as have the men’’,

 

Lester

Ernest

(above) caretaker of the Arts building and
well-known Dalhousie figure has
been at Dalhousie University for 25 years. One of the
University’s most ardent sports
fans, Mr. Lester was awarded an
honorary Gold “D” three years
azo by ae grateful Students’
Council He announced yesterday
that he still feels like. a boy,
but thinks he will be retiring on
pension before too long.

working

 

COMMERCE.
SOCIETY
ELECTION

Planning a banner year the,
Commerce Society under the
newly appointed president O.
Gardner, held their first meeting
last Thursddy Plans for a banquet and a hotel dance to be
held near the end of January
were discussed, and a committee
was elected to co-ordinate the
plan and report back to the council. It was also decided to field
tezms in the inter-faculty rugby,
basketball, hoekey and bowling
leagues.

Officers elected were:

President, O Gardner; VicePresident, R. Milne; Secretary
Treasurer, P. Hunt; Social Chairman and Debating Manager, B-_
Creighton; D. A. A. C_ Representative, L. Devine.

On the dance committee are
R. Milne, Chairman; Jean Bow
 

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

NO. 4

Sees Return Of

 

School Spirit

Members of the Dalhousie Alumni Association were haggard

hosts to the brawling, shouting,
nual

gymnasium,

Offer Aid
To Pipe Band

Resulting in the announcement
that Dalhousie
University is to have a pipe band,
the Scotia Branch of the Canadian Legion has offered the new
 

1 ade last week

born organization the use of its
own pipe band equipment.
This equipment would include
and possibly
hand

in hand witn the generous prom
drums, ba; .i,es

1. ; ry}
hi.a-land -u..ctim:. Going

ise, the Scotia ranch has offered
4. Ue aves. to potential
i x wv. a ~~ i wiihSais CL De

The scheme got its start when
law student Vince Morrison, a
Cape Bretoner from ‘way back,
realized that there was highland
talent on the campus kept undercover. He managed to. round up
six pipers and with these plans
to add-a squad of drummers
from the brass band, and a flashing foreline of highland lassies
as drum majorettes.

 

ers, Frannie Jubien, Byrna Levine, P. Hunt, B. Creighton and
QO. Gardner.

Those on the sports committee
include: Roy MacMillan, Rusty
Mime and Robin MacLean.

 

STUDENTS INVADE
SHIRREFF HALL

It was night — it was midnight Silence, broken only by
the far-off sound of voices blended in harmony, hung like a veil
over Shirreff Hall.

Some distance away, in the
Dalhousie Gymnasium, the men
of old Dalhousie, undergraduates,
greduates and faculty, were at
Alumni smoker held last Thursday evening

singing undergraduates at the an
in the Dalhousie

There was many a rosy-cheeked freshman puffing on his first
cigar, and many an old boy grunted and at the
with which
attacked the
and smokes.

grumbled wild

enthusiasm the stu
cents food, drinks.

Dr. A. E. Kerr, president of
Dalhousie addressed
the large attendance, and spoice.
enthusiastically of the return to
Julhousie of School spirit — a.

University

school spirit which has been missing for some time He mentioned
the fact that Gold and Black
teams have been victors in every
contest in which they participated since classes started.

Col. KC. Laurie, chairman.
of the hoard cf governors, and a
stciunch suppe t2r of the Alumni
A-sociation sp. e briefly and was.

heertily rece ved.

Luring the program, the Dal-heusie Chorus under the direction of Geoffrey Payzant presented a fine group of choral
selections, a number of which
were incorporated in a broadcast:
of proceedings over a local radiostation.

 

tending the annual Dalhousie Alumni Smoker. Smoker, it was ——
every student and old boy puffed vigorously on his black cher-cot, All the gay blades gathered
around a young lady with an a-cordion, and jgined in singing
the songs of the old school.

The girls in the Hall sat up in
their beds. The voices seemed ta
be louder. Someone or a group of
persons, seemed to be coming toward the hall Windows opened
and light streamed out across the
lawns. A mass of male students
stood without, singing lustily.
Miss Mowatt opened the doors,
and in trooped the exeuberant
youths, a fine time was had by
all

 
 

 

 

 

Si es

 

SPORT
REPORT

BY BOB TUCK

 

Last Saturday it was the unsung heroes that won the football
game, It was the unsung heroes of the front line that largely beat
Dartmouth and preserved Dal’s unbeaten and untied record in Canadian football. After Feron’s touchdown in the first quarter, the
Tigers concentrated on the lighter Dartmouth line with the idea of
wearing it down. And by the time the game was over, the team from
across the Harbour had a set of forwards that were almost dizzy
from the knocking and blocking about they had received.

Vince Morrisson, alumus of English Rugby, mentioned one airman who played across from him in the line as an example. Vince
hit him time and time again all through the first three quarters of
the game, and each time this character would emerge at his position
with each down, seemingly unruffled and unbowed. But by the time
the last quarter rolled around, Vince’s friend was beginning to show
the heavy going, Each time he dragged leaden feet as he took his
position, This was approximately true all along the line. Dal scored
6 of their 11 points in this final quarter, and sewed up a hitherto
tight game, The Dartmouth line just didn’t have it in their battered
bodies to stop the Tiger attack.

The same Vince Morisson is, incidentally developing into one
of the best forwards in the League. And Coach Bill Burkhart is convinced that Pete Mingo is the best snap this side of Montreal.

The doughty Mingo played every minute of the game Saturday —
@ game in which the going was especially heavy. The stellar playing
of Bert Cull is also worthy of special mention.

That same Saturday a sombre note was struck at Studley Field
as a Dalhousie team lost its first game of any kind this year. The
disrespectful outfit that committed this act was the Acadia intermediate Hatchetmen, and they beat the English Rugby League Tigers
by a score of 8 — 5, It was no doubt inevitable that somebody or
something around here should eventually take a trimming, but it
was nice while it lasted — having an unbeaten record. Well, the
Tigers can do something about this defeat by taking the Valley team

“on their home field next Satarday, But Acadia is tough to trim at

any time, and when they’re at home, they’re doubly so.

As for the game itself, it was a typically Acadia performance,
During the first half they acted as if they hadn’t been introduced
to .their team-mates, and their play bordered on the inept. So, at
half time, the score stood 5 — 0 for Dalhousie. The Tigers looked
like winners at that point. But during the intermission the Acadians
must have got to know each other a little better, for at the opening
whistle they started a well co-ordinated attack that gave them the
initiative, and in the last few minutes, the football game. We saw
them do exactly the same thing against Navy just a week before.
Navy led them 7 — 0 at half time, and consequently were supremely
eonfidant of winning the game Acadia won 8 — 5,

Acadia Hands Dalhousie
First Rugby Defeat

A determined Acadia English Rugby squad met and turned back
‘a just as determined Dal team by a score of 8 — 5 at Studley on
Saturday. The game featured a fight for every inch of ground from
start to finish, and the outcome was in doubt until the final whistle

The Tigers took possession of the ball at the starting whistle
and monopolized it for the entire first half as their big guns fired
everything they had at the Acadia wall. But the Axemen held until,
with 8 minutes to go in the half, Don Harrison received a Dal kiek
and, on a breakaway, ran half the length of the field to score MacMillan made the convert good and the Tigers were ahead 5 — f),
Then the Axemen tightened and the game see-sawed for the re“maining minutes of the half.

 

The last round was the exact
opposite of the first as Acadia
swarmed all over Tiger territory,
threatening time after time.
Their persistance paid off when,
-with 5 minutes to go in the game,
Phillips took advantage of a

lovely passing play to go over

the Dal line for their first score.
Demont tried the convert from
a different position but missed.

Just 3 minutes later, on an
other passing play, Bob MacDonald took the ball and ran 20 yds.
to touch it behind the Tiger goal
posts, Demont kicked and made
good the convert. Again the ball
went into Dal territory and stayed there for the final 2 minutes.

For Dal, Harrison, Hart, Quig
Settee
ley, and MacMillan were the big
Buns, Wuile, Phiutps, Demont,
s.aCVonaid, and Morrison starred

for Acadia.

 

ELECT GARDINER
COMMERCE HEAD

 

A new slate of officers was
selected at the regular meeting
of the Commerce Association
held Thursday afternoon Oct. 9.
Those elected were; President, O.
Gardner; Vice-President, §S. B.
Milne; Sec. Treas. P. Hunt; D.A. A. C., L. Devine; Social Chairman, Bernie Creighton; Dance
Committee, R. Milne, Jean Bow
DALHOUSIE GAZETTS

FORWARDS PROMINENT
RACKS UP THIRD

ak? cia ce a é
eee |

>

ae

Shown above is a shot from the Dal-Fleet Air Arm game of last
Saturday. Tiger Kenny Reardon is in possession of the ball as Charlie
Greco of the Airmen tackles him. Dalhousie won the game 11 — 3.

In weather more suited to baseball than football, the Dal Tigers
defeated the Dartmouth Air Station, 11—3, at the Wanderers’
Grounds last Saturday afternoon before 3,000 fans. The temperature
was near 80 as the Tigers won their third straight game in the
Halifax Canadian Football League, and now await the clash with
Navy on October 29 for the deague championship.

Saturday’s game, a bruising, bitterly fought contest, resolved
itself into a punting duel, as the lines consistently bottled up the
ground attack, and the passes seldom went for long gains. Kenny
Reardon of Dal and Taff Hullah, the brilliant punter for the flyers,
did most of the booting, with Hullah getting off one 50 yard kick,
and another for 45 yards.

Dal got a break in the opening minutes of play, and quickly
capitalized on it. Pete Mingo recovered a Dartmouth fumble on the
Air Station’s7 yard line, and on first down, Pete Feron, the Tigers’
big scorer, went around right end for the touchdown. Feron’s attempted conversion was wide, and there was no more scoring in the
first half.

In the furiously contested third
quartdr, the Silver and Black,
fighting to tie the score, counted
a safety and a rouge within a
minute of each other. With Dal
in possession of the ball on its
own 354 yard line, a fumble was
licked into the Tigers’ end zone,
where Reardon fell on it, giving
the service team two points. A
moment later Dartmouth scored
its third point when Hullah, attempting a field goal booted the
pigskin into the dead part of the
end zone for a rouge. That was
the last offensive gesture of the
day for the Air Station, as Da!
suddenly assumed command of
the game in the final quarter.
After the Gold and Black’s 88
yard march down the field “had
been stalled on the Dartmouth 3
yard line, Hullah kicked and Bob
Wilson returned it ‘to the Dartmouth 40. From there, with Bob
MacDenald doing most of the ball
lugging, and eventually going

over from 4 yards out on a
plunge through centre, Dal drove
to its second touchdown. Ferva
perfectly converted the extra
point, and the day’s scoring was

ended.

In addition to the brilliant
play of the two forward walls,
MseDonald, Feron and Reardo-,
fur the victors, and Huliah and
Art George for the service team
were the standout performers, x

 

*T bere is no dis puting

 

ers, tran Jubien, Byrna Levine,
R. Campbell. Managers; football,
Roy MacMillan; Hocky,. Wallace
MacDonald; Bowling, Rusty Miine; Basketball, Robin MacLean.

 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1947

RS TRIM DARTMOUTH FLYERS —

 

AS DAL

STRAIGHT WIN

F eron Tops
Scorers

Pete Feron of the Dal Tigers
is the leading scorer in the City
Canadian Football League with
22 points. He leads Taff Hullah
of the Dartmouth Flyers by six
points in the seoring race. The
cnly other Dal player with over
ten points is tricky Bobby MacD«unald,

The first six in the scoring
lists are;

Perom (DOR 6s cs5 eee. 22
Hullah (Dartmouth) .............. 16
Young (St. Mary’s) ...2........-.: 3
MacDonald. (Dal) ©..cc...ccc.ccssceecs 10
MseLedd: (Naty oiiiccliccncde. 10
Waters (Navy) ....... biidaas aise LO

Dalhousie also holds first place
in the League standings by virtue
of their win over Dartmouth Saturday. However, Navy has played one less game than Dal and
ure also undefeated.

The standings are;

W LF APts,

DALHOUSIE 3 04710 6&6
NAVY 2 038 14 4
ST. MARY’S 12 14.31 2
DART. A. F. hy. me Oe BTR
WANDERERS 0 3 050 9

 

  
    

py

All KCS Old Boys |
who wish transportation
back to the school for
Old Boys Day, Nov. 1
| please contact Mac
Grant, 112 Young Ave.,
| or phone 2-3741.

   

  
    
 

,

      
 

 

   

De Gustibus
Non

Disputandum*

There’s no law against going around dressed in seven
Arrow oxford stripe neckties... and you really have
to admire this fellow’s individuality.

You can display your good
taste by buying just one or
two of these eye-catching
striped ties in authentic college colors.

Might as well get a matching handkerchief while
you're at it. Then your getup will be indisputably O.K.

shout tastes,

ARROW SHIRTS and TIES

UNDERWEAR * HANDKERCHIEFS © SPORTS SHIRTS

 

 
   
  

.
;
)
i

N°

Sg

 

—

a ee te

 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1947

ENGINEERS WIN
FROM ARTSMEN

A fast breaking Engineers
rugger team opened the Dalhousie Interfaculty English
Rugby league at Studley field
Monday last with a decisive 8—0
victory over the Arts and Science
squad.

The transit men opened the
scoring midway in the first half
with a cross field run stemmiig
from a centre field scrum with
end man Morrow taking the ball
cver and giving Bloomer the
chi nce to make good a convert
for 5—0. For the balance of the
fulf the heayy and fast Engineers pressed hard but sterling
efforts by buddy Beer, Crosby
tnd Bloomer nullified all attempts.

The Engineer drive netted another try in the first six minutes
of the final half when Creighton
Steeves, fleet forward took a
long lateral from in front of the
goal posts and scored from the
fifteen From then on it was all
Arts as the red and blue put on
the pressure with Bud Beer carrying the mail but all efforts to
break the goose egg went for
naught and the Engineers staggered from the field unscored
upon. What the boys lacked in
finesse they made up in spirit.

Engineers: Graves, Bezanson,
Cowan, Stewart, Ferguson, Steeves Brown, Harris, Morrow, W.
G. Stewart, Bloomer, Page, Beck,
Prowse.

Arts & Science: Campbell, Carsch, Cousins, McGinnis, Gillis,
Crosby, McKenzie, Bloomer,
Saunders, Sawyer, Beer, Fraser,
Litimer.

Notice

The Council of Students anmounces that deadline for applications for business manager of
Phares will be midnight, October 31.

PCat

DELICIOUS DARK CHOCOLATE
uti ROASTED ALMONDS

ae eae
PO

=e Se

DALHOUSIE GAZETTH

TIMOTHY WINS DAL GOLF MEET

en

 

TRIPLE CROWN HOLDER CROWELL
UPSET AS DAL INTRODUCES GOLF

_s

 

Roland Timothy, playing the finest competitive golf of his career, turned in a low gross score of
73 Friday afternoon to win the first annual Dalhousie golf tournament. Timothy, who performed a
tremendous feat in defeating Eddie Crowell, who holds the Maritime, Provincial and Halifax Amateur
golf titles, featured his play with strong, true iron shots.

A 275 yard drive on the sixteenth hole which put Timothy within 10 feet of the pin was a sensational play by last year’s Dal varsity goalie. It was the opinion of John McCormack, Dal Physical
Director, that Crowell, playing like a champion all the way through, would have won but for the fine

display of Timothy.


The match wasn’t decided until the 17th hols, when Crowell “shenked” into the woods to lose
three strokes, a handicap from which he didn’t recover. Another piece of hard luck which struck a
competitor happened on the 13th hole when Pete Doig, who had been matching stroke for stroke with
the leaders till then, hit into a bank at the side of the green. His ball rolled. into the woods for a

lost ball.

The meet was Dalhousie’s initial venture into golf as a university sport. Said John McCormack, Physical Director, ‘Promotion of golf is a consistent part of our policy to sponsor minor sports.”’

~
2

 

be

“Dalhousie hopes eventually to
introduce golf as an inter-colleglate sport,” said McCormack.
‘Other universities expressed
terest at the last meeting of the
M. I A, U_ but could not take
part this year because of the

,

icrt notice,”’ he told the Gazette. “Next year may see an inter-collegiate golf meet being

held,” he added.

Plans for golf next year will
be made at a meeting in the
spring.” said McCormack. He
said he hoped that all those who,

were interested would keep ‘th
tournament in mind and remen)ber to bring their clubs with then

when they came back next fall.

   
      
   
   
   
   
    

The best indoor and outdoor'

sporting equipment

is found at

| THE SPORTS
LODGE

86 GRANWILLE ST.

gi

“Play More — Live Longer’”

 

Pago Five

 

 

DAL GIRLS DROP
EDGEHILL 3—1

 

Two stiff twenty minute periods saw the Dalhousie ground
hockey team triumph over Edgehill 3—-1 at Windsor. The first
goal went to Edgehill in the first
half and was followed almost
immediately by a Dal goal scored
by Nancy Jones. When half time
came it found the score 1—1
With most of the play having
taken place in the Dalhousie. end
of the field,

During the second half the play

was forced in the Edgehill zone
for the most part and two more
goals fo Dal were scored. Pat
Snuggs scored both of these,
making her the game’s leading
scorer Janet Cameron played an
outstanding game, ’with ’strong
drives and a nimble faculty for
keeping near the ball. Frannie
Doane, Nancy Jones and Bev
Huntington in the nets all gave
an excellent performance. With
more practice the Dal team will
gain in team -play and organization which left something to be
desired in their nevertheless impressive display at Windsor.

Dal lineup; Pat Snuggs, Fran
Doane; Nancy Jones, Yvonne Leblaq, Gwen Lugar, Nancy Hencerson, Janet Cameron, Jean
McLeod, Gloria Teed, Lois Ratee, Bev Huntingdon.

 

DGAC BASKETBALL
SCHEDULE

Freshettes vs Sophomores

Tues., Oct. 28, 7:30
Juniors vs Seniors

Tues., Nov. 4, 7:30
Sophomores vs Seniors

Tues , Nov, 18, 7:00
Freshettes vs Juniors

Tues., Nov. 18, 8:00
Sophomores vs Juniors

Tues., Nov. 25, 7:00
Freshettes vs Seniors

Tues., Nov. 25, 8:00

 

DAL SOCCERITES READY
FOR ACQUITANIA GAME

 

————

Dalhousie’s soccer team meets its first test Monday Oct. 27
when it takes the field against a team from the Acquitania. The
Dal team has had many practices and the squad is in the best of shape
for the game Team manager Dennis St. Helene feels confident that
the Dalhousie soecerites will give a good account of themselves, and

believes that this year’s squad
has ever had

Coaching for the team as well
as playing, is Don Harrisson of
Bermuda. A great many of the
men on the team are from Newf.undland, having played the
game in the Old Colony. John
Fienderson, a Newfoundlander is
or® of the stars of the team.
Fieyving goal is Richard Bierhoff,
a Dalhousian from the United
States, who played for the Fieldstone, New York team. Others
are from Trinidad. Incidentally,
there are also some Canadians
on the team

The soccer enthusiastists are
anxious to bring the game before
the attention of Dalhousians, and
hope for full student support.

The team lines up as follows:

Goal — Bierhoff

FPullbbacks — Trim, Bastien

Halfbacks — Rosenfelt, Louisy,
St. Helene

Forwards — MeCullough, Hen
mesy, Harrison, Riggs, Genge

among the best that Dalhousie

 

INTERFAC RUGBY

The first game of the Dalhousie Interfaculty Rugby League was played Oct. 20 between
Engineers and Arts and Scien-se
(story elsewhere on these pages).
All games are to be played at
1:30 p. m. The Schedule:

Oct 25 Engineers vs Commerce
Oct. 27 Arts & Sciencevs Law
Nov. 1 Commerce vs A. & §S.
Nov. 3 Law vs Engineers
Niv. 8 Law vs Commerce

KINGS WINS

King’s College Ruggers, winless in their first three starts returned to form against Navy Saturday with a crushing 24—0
victory. Fergusson of Kings ran
wild, putting on an astonishin:
running display which carried
him to three touchdowns. Rowlie Frazee had two tries and
Dave Wilson seored the other
cne Mac Flewelling kicked converts.

 
: se cache ‘tepiie
nts had many schemes for the entertainment of
within | ‘the Netherlands this summer, There were

ps, tours in tjalken around the waterways (a tjalk
et Sl and even a summer session at the Univer
\

7.) a.

many ae of Europe it is tissues to take any cur
| ross the frontier. To give an opportunity for students in

ss to visit Holland, the ‘Netherlands Burean for Foreign

elations (N. B. B. §.) with the assistance of the Dutch

t arranged labour camps. A student could work in such

in, Holland for three weeks, during which he would be taken

ir ions and given lectures and entertainment, At the end of

her working period, he would have enough money for a nineir of Holland, living in Youth Hostels.

girl-students the work was a ssisting with the fruit harvest.

ow rk for the men was much harder,

1944, the R. A, F. bombed the dykes which protected the

na Walcheren, in Zeeland, from the sea, after giving the farm
y po opulation one day’s warning. For a year and a half, this once

tile soil was covered with about fifteen feet of sea, which brought

ith it about two feet of sand. When the land was finally pumped

was a desert, with no usable dwellings, no living trees, no

any sort. 
_ Nine million people live in this small country, Holland. Every

a foot of space is urgently required for lebens-raum, That 1s

ice the ninth century of our era, the Dutch have been great

ic engineers, leading the world in the reclamation of land

a sea. You may have heard the Dutch saying, “God made
world, but the Dutch made Holland,”

‘here was something idealistic in the plan of having foreign

ents come and help reclaim this salt-drenched, sand-covered soil.

sy work consisted of shovelling the tightly packed sand into bar
ow: peers pushing the very rickety vehicles a hundred yards-or so

across the sand on planks four inches wide. The wheels being often

eccentric, the barrows ere off into the sand several times each

trip. a
os As if the work was not hard enough, the blazing heat of Hol
; hottest summer on the shadeless sand, and the very poor workin conditions contributed to the failure of the scheme. Breakfast
ad a lunch were each a few slices of bread. In the evening, after ten

1 ours uts of back-breaking work in the scorching heat, the workers were
mtani to be able to eat a warm (never hot) meal of potatoes and

- ‘These were the conditions site which the ordinary labourers
; worked, quite happily, it seemed. The system of payment was fanistic, The average depth of soil over a given area was computed,

( | that area given to a certain gang to clear. The gang. was paid

; Roe : " piecework, The proportion of surface area covered by sea-grass

| was “measured, The distance over which the barrows had to pushed

“ considered. So many Dutch cents were allowed for every time

: e planks over which the barrows were pushed had to be moved

i, ae meter (the foreman under whom I worked would not allow the

- ros planks to be moved until they all had to be moved one meter, which

Sg _ meant that a worker over shallow sand very often had to carry his
oe loaded shovel quite a distance to reach his barrow on the plank )

| Rae From these factors, a wage for the whole gang was calculated,

i Aa and | divided among the workers, The wage for each person was sel
a “) ae was deducted weekly for the maintenance of shovels, and for
ah ‘ ‘the administration.
i _ There were, as can be guessed, many troubles over wages and
Ee orking conditions. The entire fault could be boiled down to .a facter which we seldom perceive. Most Europeans seem unable to achieve
oh
ret a happy medium in organization. The Work Camp was hopelessly overis erty oi I teed a gang one morning which had two Finns, both great
ne _ strong men; both soldiers in the war against Russia. It is no exagel geration to say that each did the work of any four others in the
ia _—-Broup,, I asked them why they were working so frantically. They
a) > erhnty. replied, “We are getting into condition for Siberia.”
x Se; . Geoffrey Payzant

SF

| MOVE MYSELF

I sat in the summer dusk
4nd watched — go past —
The land, and lake, and sky —
A cloud that drifted down a valley
A wave that crossed a lake between two hills
A wind that wandered from the night.
These things I saw go -past
Though nothing moved me but myself —
'For all these things are but myself:
I am burnt earth writhing on the hillsides,
brave, wheat beneath the moon,
trees whispering in the woods,
a loon’s ery on the water
a mist. that creeps across the fields
fr am the essence of these and I am earth,
ee see myself ‘pass by in the summer dusk,
And Tam ‘marred by myself.
¢ _ Zeitbild

hi LADIES’ MUSICAL Tay

Frances James

Once again we have the pleasure of welcoming the Ladies’ Musical Club to Dalhousie, The first
concert of this year’s series was a most enjoyable one indeed.

The performing artist was soprano Frances James whom many of us had the pleasure of hearing
in Healy Willen’s new opera “Deirdre of the Sorrows,” broadcast last year over the C, B,C.

Miss James opened her programme with a group of three Haydn songs,

all of which ‘showed her

fine musicianship. However, a slight break was som-times noticeable between the chest and head tones.

The second group was composed of French songs by Dupare, Debussy and Faue. The Faure songs,
“Soir” and “Toujours,” were particularly fine, In all five songs of the group, Miss James showed a fine
understanding of the French art song. The heavier passages in Dupare’s “Chanson Triste’? were per
haps a bit too heavy and dramatic.

The third group was most interesting since it comprised three
pairs of songs each of which was

-based on the same text, thereby

showing the different conceptions
the composers had of the poems,
The singer was outstanding in
the German songs by Schumann
and Wolff on the text “Er ists,’’
(“Spring is Here’). Miss James
shcwed she had the power vocally and artistically to do full
justice to the Lied. Hahn’s lovely

met acevilipalis. Luc suugs. vy
ur. anaylor, “Beauly s 2nd 1s .G
pignt’ ana ““‘lwenty Weexs Near
Fast” wejle periormed for tne

first time in public,

The last group of songs opened
with “Old Mother Hubbard,”
something of a parody on earlier
musical styles, complete with
glcrious trills and elegant sustained phrases on one syllable of
text. This was perhaps a bit too

snewed another fine bit of singing and a giorious bit of accomjuniement trom Mr. Naylor, The
cc neiuaing song, Grieg’s “A
Dream” was very well performed.
As encores Miss James sang an
amusing. little French Canadian
fulk song and “Summertime”
from Gershwin’s “Porgy and
Bess.” Both selections were very
well received,

It seemed unfortunate that Mr.
Naylor was not allowed a solo

restrained, and many members of
tre audience failed to recognize
the spirit in which it was composed Rachmaninoff’s very beautiful and extremely difficult song
“Pere Beauty Dwells’ showed
the great vocal range and control
possessed by Miss James. The
“The Brook” by Dolores

“Si Mes Vers’ was sung as an
encore at the close of the group
and it was one of the finest performances of the evening.

group as his fine piano work appeared to warrant.

May we say congratulations to
the Club for such a grand start
and we hope the rest of the seasen will continue to be
cessful.

Following the intermission Miss
James sang songs by two conter:porary composers. Jean Coulthard Adams, and Bernard Navler,

>

aS Stic
song — T, K. BENTLY

/ hhere ’

right now you're taking

hurdles in your stride...

but the ones ahead are tougher!

Not only tougher! They’re sometimes very unexpected! And the man who clears them safely
and easily, while others falter, and fail the race,
is usually the man who looked ahead...

The man who looked ahead in early youth, and
charted a life insurance program that would carry
him over those unexpected hurdles . . . the man
who determined that whatever the future might
hold — the responsibility of marriage and children,
-the misfortune of sickness, accident, or loss of income—he would be prepared to take them in his
stride. ’

To such a man, the Mutual Life representative is
a welcome friend—a wise and experienced coun«
sellor who has been specially trained in adapting
life insurance to the varied needs, desires, and
responsibilities of people of all ages and incomes
and in all walks of life.

He is ready to help you now .. . to study your
particular circumstances and advise on the type
of policy or policy-combinations best suited to
your requirements. Make an appointment with
him today. Ask him to explain the special features
of Mutual low-cost life insurance. C2

MUTUAL FE

HEAD OFFICE WATERLOO, ONTARIO

 
  

oy
ae?
es

|

li

 

  
   
 
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
  

ho"

AND VIEWS

 

a . © suas ‘as thou ugh anotner weesena is looming up, and we do
os ‘mean @ weekena! ‘nis pig Acadia trip is only supposed to last sat
urday, but if we remember anything from previous years, lt will

take the rest of the weekend to Trecooperate, By the looks of things,

_ the turn-out will be colossal, and college spiric snould run hign, it it
“it continues to be as outstanding as it has been in the home games.
I was certainly a bitter disappointment (and we do mean bitter)

to see the rugby team eaged out by the Axemen, but just wait until

we meet them on their home field — we'll be out for blood, but def
fe In case you don’t know it, the co-eds are riding high, While Dal
‘was walloping Dartmouth Air Station on Saturday, the ground hoc
ey _ key team was running in a 3 — 1 victory over Edgehill in their first
es ay game of the season Next on list — Acadia Axettes.
z x We notice that the female section of Psych. 1 seems very atten
tive in class. Could it be the professor?
You city gals who find life dull, run up to the Hall sometime,

| preferably just before a dance. To the ordinary passer-by, ye old

Hovel looks mighty serene, but wow! Just step inside, and that atmosphere soon disappears. We'll say no more — you can see what

we mean for yourselves. ‘
Ringing of alarm clocks is taking place at the Hovel these nights

— at 12-25 on the dot (Dot, that is). Gus’ gal — the one with all
the cousins — up on First Wing seems to be responsible, and it all
seems to be for one little demure gal. |

Going up a flight of stairs, we find the addition of two inmates
— turtles by nature — who came bustin’ in the other day with one
Joyce C. We thought they’d be jay birds,

In hopes that the male readers of this noble paper may be glancing over this column, we present a letter for their benefit,

: To those who invaded Shirreff Hall
after the Alumni Smoker, on Thursday, Oct. 16.
Dearly beloved seranaders;

We, of the Hovel, sincerely thank you for the noisome strains
of music (%) which were wafted ‘up to our windows on Thursday
night. The sight of approximately a hundred superb specimens of
manhood decorating the Shirreff Hall lawn would, in itself, have
been enough to gladden the hearts of the inmates; but for such a
spectacle to have been accompanied by vocal selections of such high
calibre wes almost too much for our powers of expression. So with
poodies of purple passion we clutch our fluttering hearts in silent
gratitude — and remain »

yours, in a sended state,
The Shirreff Hall Girls,
F. Ww. D. es

THE NEW. AGRICULTURE

i fags read that See es Wauace, veteran American statesman
and alleged Iriend of the Communist organization im Moscow,
working on a method of producing redder strawberries on his east
state farm The mechod he has evolved already with partial success,
is the crossing of Soviet strawberries with those native to America.
‘The result is a redder strawberry,

Do you readers and Epicureans realize the implications of this
experiment, details of which must have slipped through the Communist party censoril screen. It is immeditely apparent to me that
this is the basis of a Communist plot to imbue the spirit of a red
Soviet into the youth and elders of this University.

In my opinion this was.a ruse Yi in
to detract from the fact, readily
apparent to myself, that this
year’s tomatoes, apples and cherries were the reddest ever seen
in our generation. We hope you
addicts to the fruit and vegetable
habit will realize what you have
done to yourselves You are closer to being a Communist than

GLEE CLUB

The 1946- 7 season of the Dal
Glee and Dramatic Society is
now well under way. Casting rekearsals for “As You Like It’’
have reached their final stages,
with Mr. Pigot, director of the
play, in the process of carefull
selection of characters for the
production, which will be presented late in November.

 

is’

 

 

you ever realized.

For the sake of D. U., King
and Country throw off the yoke
of vegetable produce, /

However, now that this dastardly plot has been brought to
light by this observer, let us not
stop here. Let us imagine the
other implications and possibilities of this. diabolical scheme.

An agricultural England can
cross breed American string
beans with their own, grow them
in the shape of an “S” with vertical bisector $, and thereby solve
the dollar crisis,

The sugar beet may be combined with the saccharine plant
(if there is one) and a magnificent batch of diabetes will rssult.

Various types of trees may be
planted in Iron ore pits, and with
careful manipulation a lumber
which has the sterling analities
of wood and metal would result.
This plan, however, vill doubtless
have bitter onposition from the
American steel interests,

There is actnally no end to the
nassthilities of this new tvne :f
hnchandry, Surely there is a
weennn that will vie with tha
atamie homb and bacteriolovical

Ha rfora.

 

 

Last Wednesday night, the
first meeting of chorus, prospective cast, and members of the
orchestra marked the official

- epening of the forthcoming Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, “H.
M.S Pinafore’. Geoffrey Payzant, director of the show, was
well pleased by the large turnout
of interested students, who heard
recordings of the operetta and

(Continued on page 8)

and will anahle

38 Ks
ha alen tha Fi ngt menargtinn 5
tha wahipth af tla enil,

Amen

   

ae ath as
bs ia hh
aE ya, aw mM ‘j

et

 

es
ty Bt kt cu AL ge

‘

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

JACKIE
ROBINSON’S
STRUGGLE

In this, an era of chaos and
hardship, prejudice and bigotry,
it is pleasing to hear of the success story of a person, who from
the start has two strikes on him,
fight his way into a position
where he is heralded by the
world — Such a person is Jackie
Robinson, the first negro to break
into big-time baseball. And if his
first year’s record is any indication, Jackie has a permanent
place in the world of sport.

His has been a bitter, upward
struggle, mostly against people
who could never hope to equal
Jackie’s record either scholastieally or athletically. In his university days in California he took
an active part in all forms of
sport, excelling in football; and
fen his career he has been

nsulted, buffeted, and injured
ee the jealous white who hated
to see 'a star athlete of another
color.

This year, after a year with
a farm team in Montreal, Jackie
was called back to Flatbush’ by
Branch Rickey, the colorful manager of “Them Bums.” By the
end of the year Jackie was one
of the few players in baseball
who is allowed to use his own
mind while base- -running, and his
mind must be keen for he is
well-established * among the leading base-runners in the major cir
cuits,

Probably the first indication
that Jackie received that he was
carving a niche for himself was
his. being awarded the trophy for
the prize rookie of the year, for
in his position on the keystone
Sack he had been: the target “for
the spikes of numerous bigoted
Big Leaguers,
- The change was gradual, and
even Jackie"might not have noticed it until the day when a group

of his. team-mates crowded a
round him in ‘the locker room
after a game in which he had
been spiked. Jackie was simply
told that he need not take that

crt of thing again. W hatever
Sindee he was assured that ke
would have their support.

Then one day late in the season
when the Bums were returning

re — — past mee ee 7

F Srl ae are
aoe, Eta a Boia ws up ys phi leet A ten te ke
7. ry we >. + ; er ~~

     
   
  
  

PAGE | SEVEN

EXPERIMENTS? , a

Last year an article appearing in the (un) official organ of a,
leading American Institution read as follows:

“Probing into the very thoughts of man, the Medical keatede
mentation Lab. .at .Tech has developed an amazing device called the:
cerebrumoscillograph which will simultaneously record a person’s,
spoken word and the thoughts which occupy the innermost crevices
of ‘his brain. The machine can be made to operate at a distance of
100 feet from the subject, completely without his knowledge, thus
suggesting innumerable possible uses.”

Garites too’’ (This is it.)
“By the way if you — what
hasband?
(Wow,

Un revurning to universiy Uiuls
year we discovereu tnat a campus
gentieman, Samuel (sees. ait)
knew tae whereabouts of
two sucn macaines

she’s pointing to that
mountain of musele in the cor
Leeps,
in the cit,.

Backed by the D. U_S_ T. (Dal- ner.)

housie University Scientific “Yeah, thanks for the dance
Thremmatologists), one of these (Oh well — I’ve been tryi-g
machines was obtained and put 4! night — might as well gy
into use at the Common Room  /home.)

Dance last Saturday night. Note:
The subject used in this first experiment was of the. milder type.
Lhe machine is an exceptionally

 

T - SQUARE

 

 

delicate instrument, but as time
goes on D. U. S. T_ plans to focus Crasn! bang! Uucn! What in
the machine on all specimens hell is going on? On, no, any
Those engineers
they? What will
“dem
There

found on Studley, and will event- tming but tnat!
ually use as subjects the most
common found on dominion campi, the ferocious cave-man type.

arent back are
ever become of Dal with
bums” on_ the
should be a law.

loose?

Ane results OL tne Lirst exees | er That”’s what the campus has
elament Ivlow: tavcugats re : :
pes | So Ee: te: face “this year, with no deotparaved Irom tne spoxen : : :
ae yy ome NS. eebanadte the amber of Theakies.
by orackets.
y : be Prete ( darlings. But cheer up, the shackOOK a uzz dancing w
$ Os h oe sters aren’t a bad bunch. Ask
an Cameron — she know 2 :
¥ : ao the girls from the Hall, for
men on tne campus than Ber , .
; P - : ’ ane weren’t their serenaders’ on Thursdces — foster must have had his : . 9
i day night largely Engineers? Can
name on the waiting list for the ie . °
we help it if the co-eds love us?
last month — Say, that’s not a

After being scattered. from,
Sydney to Vancouver the bridge
builders are once more enjoying
each other’s company and many
a laugh has to be concealed in
the drafting room as they remin®

bad dish Ukie is dancing with
— quite cute as a matter of fact
Smoota dancer too Not
enough women here tonight —
maybe I snould stroll around for

—
a coKe and look ’em over. Wonder
_ ; isce over the summer’s activitied,
H eran ey ante ene cig They are now finahzing plans
raed co. for their trip, destination’ un‘Hey Denny, how many before known, tut it is probably
the last waitz? — O. K. thanks.” the Sydney girls who will get
(Gory work fast: — only two the break’ “ffi line with’ Such &
more dances — That six to one thin the Engineers had an intersurplus of males is no help. Guess esting talk on the Canadian ie
Ill forget the coke a Suppose dustry by Dr. ‘Grant, who also
Bol will take a dim view if : enlightened us on the birth rate
ask Frannie for a dance — Saay, af Queen’s which has intreased in

look
ner

at that numiber in the cor
proportion to the number of En
+o : =| Ty 1; P — might as well plunge - gineering students.

got nothing to lose.)
“May I have this dance
pretty smooth eh?”

Last week the shacksters on-¢
again heard the familiar reaqnest:
“Gentlemen, make a note of this”,
ns Theakie was back with his pro
After several
(Continued on page 8)

band,
(Guess I’m all set for the ey
eninge now.)
“You bet it’s

tees spending

one of my fa 
COCA-COLA, LTD. — HALIFAX

     

  

oe
ats wit lahat: Sala

  

 

 
  
     

 
  

ae red I
i

‘ Bees) Pats i

maaan 0,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

Rs "The GAZETTE merely
wn 5 to point out that the Pravmmmunique which announced

 

formation of the new Com
 

 

Boaund the avowed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“oka ligeaeacela iam

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
  

& ¢ that there was far too
‘Vahietth news. Who ever

'

il heard tell of devoting the main
ts teat to a sporting triumph!

there were other stories
4 a Yours sincerely,
| (Name withheld on request)
| Bditorial Note:

We thank the writer foc
: ervticism. The GAZETTE is

ae paper, It is our duty to
bts sotisty our readers. We point out,

er, that great daily news
 

ath papers ran headlines on the re
_ aent World’s Series; and we feel

pa that, in the Dalhousie sphere,

  
   

"there is no greater news than the

tee i triumphs of our present team, It

 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
   

shall be our policy to print on
; eur first page the news of major
“emmertanes of the week.
Meares ih > *»* &* 8 @

ss "Phree rousing cheers for the
- Dalhousie Brass Band} After the

heart-warming spontaneous per
formance by them at the Canad
ati His jan Rugby Game last Saturday
mie Pee student body should doff
‘ Ai:

_ their hats to each of the instrvu
ot we campus.

joel and marched off smartly

i, s to the tune of ‘Glory, Glory to

   
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
     
    

 
 

         
   
      
    
     
   
     
   
  
 
 
 
      
 
      
    

_ Dalhousie’ did you feel a thrill
3 “going up and down your spine?
a did. I had a feeling of deep re
spect for the gameness of those

- lads marching between the goul

_ posts. Maybe more important was
my feeling of pride in belonging
to the same student body as the

i men behind the instruments.

The Gold and Black will be on
top. and will stay on top so long
as we have the support of such
_ @rganizations as the Dalhousie
Brass Band.

| Hate off to them!

. Hoh Mitchell

 

 

rsages :

signed by
speaks ace ny volumes —
. Site: and love. |

OM ae pane leh ue

- mentalists as we meet them on

When the Dal, Band came
_ down off the bleachers, formed

A “Colonial”, Corsage de. |

 

weeks im the hospital we are all
glad to see him back with us
We were quite worried!!!
 Bloomer’s solution for world
(Honest) _
problems: “all you have to is
wipe out all women in the world.
We could stop working and have
plenty to eat and DRINK, But
there would be one damn fool
(Smitty for instance) who would
hide a woman - - Then the trouble
would start all over again’’.

 

had an opportunity to become
familiar with the score. In his
address the director outlined
what would be expected in punctual and regular attendance of
rehearsals, time required to be
spent in practice, and the general
nature of the production, The
undertaking of “H. M. S. Pinafcre” is far greater than that
of last year’s “Trial by Jury’’.
Accordingly, it has been necessary to begin preparations at an
early date; co-ordination of orchestral and choral rehearsals
must follow as soon as possible.
This popular production has
aroused enthusiastic interest in
the remainder of last year’s musical group, and in many of the
new students at Dalhousie,

The first Glee Club project
was carried out successfully at
last week’s Smoker, when the
male chorus, under Geoffrey Payzant’s direction, presented a
group of three choral numbers,
“Once I Loved a Maiden Fair’,
«In the Gloaming’’, and “The Vicar of Bray”. This part of the
evening’s program was broadcast,
and was throughly enjoyed by the
audience,

The next Glee Club performance will be this week’s Freshman Show, directed by “Ukie”’
Velcoff and Bill Menchions As
preparations have been shrouded
in deepest secrecy, your reporter
can merely say, “Come Friday
night, and see for yourself.”

 

—NOTICES

1. All Kings College School
¢ld boys wisning transportation
back to school for Old Boys’ Day,
Nov. 1 -- contact Mac Grant, 112
Young Avenue, Halifax, or telephone 2-3741.

2. Could anyone who has
recond hand copies of Bertran!
Russell’s book, “The Problems of
Philosophy” and desires to sell
them, contact Mr. Atwood at the
Gym Store.

3, There will be a meeting
oi the Arts and Science Society
in the Chemistry Theatre, Tu- +
day, Oct. 28, at noon. All Arts
and Science students are urged
to attend.

4, There will be a meeting of
all those interested in forming a
Dalhousie Radio Club at the Gaz
_ette Office, Tuesday at 2 p.m,

 

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

  
 
    
 

   

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED
Studley Drug Store
- 29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store
141 Hollis St.

tee vies
Tr

JACKIE ROBINSON

CONTINUED FROM PG. 7

 

from a successful tour Jackie
saw the signs of an ending to
his bitter fight. When the Dodger players stepped out onto the
platform, s vast crowd of spectatcrs rushed forward to greet
them. They waved and cheered,
and shouted a name. The Negr)
star was speechless He was timid and bashful, but his fear fled
when the fans placed him on their
shoulders and carried him triur phantly. Yes, his was the name
they shouted Jackie had won a
great victory,

D V.A.

PAYMENT OF BENEFITS

It is expected that D V.A_ will
furnish cheques for the great
majority of students under benefits in time for payment by the
end of October. Times and places

- will be announced later Please

watch the notice boards.
Reasons by which payment
may be delayed will include: ...
1. Supplemental examinations
2, Transfer from other Universities and Provinces.
8. Failure to report to the
Veteran Adviser’s Office.
New students should note that
payments will be made only at
the places and the exact times
announced.

setter newer en

Shoe Store

387 Barrington St.,

 

Dal Students —

A welcome awaits you at

Phumaye Ljnsted
456 Barrington Street,

Where you will find A
complete Music Service
and the finest
Sports Equipment.

 

NOVA SCOTIAN
HOTEL

SUPPER DANCE

EVERY

Saturday

 
    

DON WARNER

and his 12-piece ORCHESTRA

  

 

 

SLECTS OFFICERS
_ (Continued from Page 1)

 

pecond of the year, was held at
noon in the Engineers comm n
reom, under the chairmanship of
President Bill Christie.

Elected were; Banquet; Bob
Williams, Bob Bezanson, and Jim
3B. rrison Ball, Hugh Campbell,
Don McKeigan and Dave ParscnB.

THE

CAMERA SHOP

26 BLOWERS ST.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

EVERYTHING
PHOTOGRAPHIC

 

 

   

BEATTIE

11 HOLLIS ST.
PHONE 3-6873

  

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1947
PATRONIZE OUR
ADVERTISERS THEY
HELP TO MAKE THIS PAPER

POSSIBLE

»
ST

OXFORD THEATRE
M. T.

ANGEL AND THE BAD MAN
HIT PARADE 1947
w. T,
CARNIVAL IN COSTA RICA
BULLDOG DRUMMOND

AT BAY

—_—

F. S.

TOVE LAUGHS AT
ANDY HARDY

 

TANGIER

 

 

 

THE
GREEN LANTERN
RESTAURANT

‘The sign of a good meal’
407-409 Berrington St.

 

THE MARITIME LIFE

RUN.

 

HAVE A HEART TO HEART TALK
WITH HART, IN REGARD TO YOUR
LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAMME.
WILL PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE LONG
LIFE INSURANCE COSTS YOU
| NOTHING.

he R. FRASER, C. L. U.

IT

Manager Neva Scotia Branch

Robert E. Hart

ne .. 3-8745

Green Lantern, Building, Halifax, N. 8.
elepho

 

 

CASINO

STARTING SAT. 25th.

 

SOMETHING IN
THE WIND

Deanna Durbin
Donald O’Connor

John Dall
Charles Winninger

 

 

r j
DALHOUSIE RINGS
Birks have in s.0-ik
10K gold.

‘Coming soon will be
Rings with Gold Crests
mounted on black onyx. !

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. 8.

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S: Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL

COKE *

FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

DARTMOUTH, N. 5.

 

 

Attractively set up departments

featuring — @® BOOKS
@ MUSIC
@® RECORDS
@® PIANOS

@® ELECTRIC APPLIANCES
Willis Piano Co. Limited

127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

¥

¢ &
