 

to

   
  

*

Vol.-79- 40...

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

Friday, October 3, 1947

No. 1

 

 

CANADIAN
FOOTBALL
ARRIVES

The Great Autumn Madness,
cr Canadian football, was introduced to Dalhousie students Saturday, Sept. 27, in a bitterlycontested game at Studley field.
The Tigers, participating in Dalhcusie’s first football game, came

through with a 9 to 7 yictory

over St. Mary’s, greatest name in
Halifax football for six years.

Three thousand fans - a good
crowd for this city -- tingled
through the three-hour battle, remaining until the final whistle
as the Maroon and White raged
against the Dalhousie forward
wall in an attempt to regain their
early lead.

To the men who fostered the
football movement in this university, and to the students who
ratified their decision, it must
have been a great moment at
5.15 p. m. Saturday when the
bruised and btttered Tigers came
off the field with their first wia.

To John McCormick Universily athletic director ‘“Windy’
O’Neill, D. A. A. C. prexy, and
to the members of the team who
have trained arduously since Sept.
8, and who have brought Dalhousie their first win, in their
first attempt at a new sport, the
Students of this institution owe,
& vote of thanks,

With one win under their belts,
and five new additions to
strengthen the line and the backfield, the Tigers can be expected

to do great things before the
season’s end.

A&S Heads
Meet Frosh

October 6,-- Stealing the march
on other faculty organizations,
the Arts & Science executive,
under the guidance of Bernal
Sawyer and Deryk Griffin, met
with the freshman class to acquaint them with the Arts &
Science Society.

 

During the program of introduction the new class met Activities Manager Budge Archibald,
Sports Manager, Jack MacCormack, and Debating ‘Manager, Lew
Miller:

Already plans have been laid
by the executive to make an early
start towards capuring interfaculty honors in Sports and Debating, and any other members
of the society who wish to partticipate in any way are urged
to see the society leaders.

UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT

 

 

Dr. A. E. Kerr, B.A., B.D., D-D., LL. D., (shown above) who

enters his third year as president of the Maritime Provinces largest

university. Dr. Kerr came to Dalhousie after serving as Principal of

Pine Hill Divinity Hall.

 

TO ERECT RESEARCH
LAB ON DAL CAMPUS

Possibly up to $300,000 will be spent in the erection of the National Research Council laboratory on Dalhqdusie University’s Studley
campus, Dr. G. H. Henderson, member of the Council for Nova Scotia

said yesterday in an interview on his return from a meeting of the
research council in Ottawa. The regional laboratory, second to be
built in Canada by the Research Council will be larger than was at

first contemplated.

Dr. Henderson, professor of Physics at Dalhousie, said he expected work would be started on the new building this winter. When
the plans have been completed and as soon as the go-ahead signal

is received, work will start, he said.

The program of projects will
not be haphazard - “‘little bits of

' research here and there’’, he said,

“but a definite policy.”

Although suggestions will be
offered by the Council, it will be
the people of the Maritimes who
will make the choice of projects,
Dr. Henderson said. Two projects,
dealing with industrial application
of seaweeds, and application of
woodwastes such as waste sulphite liquor have already been
suggested by Dr. W. H. Cook,
director of the division of Applied
Bigology of the National Research Council, Ottawa.

First plans and specifications
for the building drawn up by E.
A. Gardner, architect of the Federal Department of Public Works,
have been completed after confer
ring with University authorities, |
he said, and the plan is now be
ing redrawn with minor changes.
It will be submitted to the University for approval.

Three stories high, and with a
aiseable attic, the building will
measure 90 feet by 50 feet, and
will have an ell at the rear to
take care of “pilot” plants. It will
be erected East of the present
Dalhousie Science building.

A staff of about 50 will be
employed in the Laboratory, Dr.

Henderson expected. About half
of these will be  professionw!
scientists.

General scheme of the architecture will conform with the
other buildings on Studley camrus as well as the “Master Plan’’
of the university.

Dr. Henderson emphasized that
the laboratory will be completely distinct in government from
Dalhousie University. A director
of the laboratory will be appointed by the Federal government,
he said, who will be directly responsible to Dr. C. J. MacKenzie,
president of the Research Council
in Ottawa.

Research will be carried out
under two main branches, applied biology and applied chemistry. There will be others, Dr.
Henderson said,. but the two
would be of major importance
in the work of the laboratoay.

=

PRESIDENT TO SPEAK

 

..Dr. A. E. Kerr, president of
Dalhousie University, will address members of the student
body at 12 o’clock Thursday, October 9 in the Gymnasium, the
university office announced yesterday.

ENROLMENT REACHES |

~ RECORD

FIGURE

As classes began at Dalhousie University Monday morning, har
rassed members of the Registrar’s staff began a final summing up
of total enrolment for the school year 1947-1948.

 

Veterans

Refused

In refusing a request for a
cost of living bonus, Deputy Minister of “Veteran Affairs Woods
stated at the Minister’s Advisory
meeting last March that the basic maintenance grant for student
veterans was never meant to pay
more than seventy-five per cent
of the veteran’s living expenses.

The only recommendation to
be carried through was that student veterans receiving pensions
may now receive their full pensions and maintenance’ grants.
Previously they were only elig
ible for a portion of their pension and their grant.

The meeting, consisting of nin2
representatives of Canadian universities and nine members from
the federal ministries of finance,
education and veterans’ affairs,
was called to discuss veterans’
problems,

The meetings have no authority and all recommendations must
go thrdugh the regular legislative channels.

Plans for giving veterans
grants from a consolidated canteen fund of the three services
and eliminating deductions for
married students when their wives
earn over $75 a month were for
warded to parliamentary committees.
Recommendations for lower

insurance ratés and
medical treatment for veterans’
dependents were both defeated

The canteen grants were suggested as many veterans. would
not accept loans that would tie
them down after graduating.
They felt they were mortgaging
their future. —

veteran’s

Federal officials stated that
they could not extend medical
treatment to veterans’ dependents as they did not have the
facilities. Lower insurance rates
were refused because the government was losing money under the
present rates.

Another meeting is to be held
this fall.

Early estimates had placed the
registration figures at 2,000, but
indications are that by the time
late-comers and special students:

are registered the total figure

will exceed the earlier estimate
by one or two hundred.

The freshman class this year
is said to be the largest in th»
history of Dalhousie University.
The faculties of Law, Medicine
and Dentistry are packed not
even standing room is left in the
lecture rooms.

The Arts and Science classes
bid fair to be even more crowded than last year. .

In an effort to alleviate the
over-crowding in certain larger
classes, the University has obtained the use of St. Andrew’s
Hall as a classroom during the
week.

This hall, situated on the corner of Coburg Road and Spring
Garden Road has been in use as
a centre of social and athletic
activities connected with St. Andrew’s Church for many years.
The Church officials felt, howcver, that the need of Dalhousie
was greater than any possible
use that the Church members
might have for it. —

University officials announced
last week that efforts were being
made to obtain the use of other
muake-shift classrooms near the
Forrest building to handle the
overflow from law classes. To
date no announcement has been
made as to what further accomodation has been made available.

A practice started last year
will be carried on again this term
according to class schedules posted on university bulletin boards:
classes will be held in separate:

groups such as French 1 (1) and’

Fiench 1 (2). This practice was:
found necessary last year when:

students registering for certain:
classes far exceeded expectations.

and teaching staff.
Heads of student societies and’
crganizations as well as membe:s:

of the faculty expressed them-
selves as being confident that.
this will be Dalhousie’s greate :t:
year, with Canadian football
drawing record crowds, students
turning out in great numbers for
various organizations and a ge 1eral tenor of pride in Canda’s
oldest university being evident.

esses
LATE NEWS BULLETIN

Dal Net Stars Swamp Acadia; Take 13 Sets Out of 1G

_ at Acadia Saturday.

eee

She ete ght ete te me Ae NEE Aare, — 2. ~ - =
‘ aa s ~ ne ; je

>

Seeds soteu Fee ge ote ch ee Ml ne Oe

 

DALHOUSIE’S GREATEST YEAR |

a.

a
y
4

 
 

Reape aaa Bn oe
Bes BOB cK ART MOREIRA
Fil , KEN ae Cr JOHN TRIM }
oa Aa _ KARL WEBBER
pt ll vu. -P. Editor
oi AL ‘LOMAS Ase’t Sisicw Mer.
¥ ga ae a ROBIN Meret
it Circulation | anag'
5 ¢ aN ee Co-ed Sports ‘
heres RENY FISHER
SOMERS PRIKLER _ Re-write Staff *
PETER SEDERIS |§ ANNE PECKHAM
N i DON WALLER NOELLE BARTER
_ JOHN PARKER = MARGE COLDBERG

| AND REPORTERS THIS WEEK
man, Marion Ellis, Mary Lou Christie,

Friday, October 3, 1947 NO. 1

hs sis next: to escape the censures of the . eg) lame

} ese words, | written by Joseph Addison in an issue of THE
A ee 4711, the DALHOUSIE GAZETTE wishes to base

porning _ecademic year the GAZETTE shall strive
a and without prejudice, hoping that at the end of
> said that the reproaches of our hearts were avoided,

ed our personalities to enter into a written

4 with pict the thought in mind of promoting the name
_ University. In this endeavour we naturally except that
Sap ye be accepted by the entire number of ne

Ee

. ne no official eee have been given it is safe to say
5 ee iis Aas is the greatest in the history of Dal
 
  
  
  
 
 

Devas Geueinent laren in the world, albeit they are
ere given most to their university. This is a thing

ice the viceiaciaed, chaos of the world of today is the
ason Ne cgi minions than ever before are Sone | in

eae whi} in - writing to his son, spoke of

oe ie the penton tes words: “oe an eee which,

  

  

| lg Tasers: is. our potential, Great men in the past
wen this. So let us use Dalhousie now, tomorrow will ge too

said of us in the years to come that ours was a genog the ominous: future, a generation thatstrove

   
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

san aie a ieee. and well-equipped team
initiat ion day A before the official commenceus the GAZ ITTE wishes to commend Windy
ra wonderful , job well done.

crowds ever to attend a game at Studley
enthu asm with which Halifax greets this insport. It is to be deplored, however, that se
d to stand throughout the game. The GAZ
  

            
   
      
     
     
      
 
 
    
   

  

  

  

   
 

 
   

ee ee: eet and that appro
es ’ ee
4 Sha,
-~* ™~ =
Zz “ =<.
‘
Nak ‘
a, ~
tebe oe

7 is a <
> sank
os.
we —
a *
“ee
es
count
=e
oe
ern
“a &
= ¢.
oo
A
on
—~
*
i
So ote
re
ae ay
{ Sate
; wo, >
fs
~~
? +
a
=
wees
7 wee,
Se & t=
digskee ne
hs? P
Wwe at
—
e Ae a
> ¥ Ae”
; oa . : aie.
em 4 an!
: o*
Pus . ke
=- : ul =
+ *
= +
> ad

was
ve
‘
'

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

> EDITOR'S
MAILBOX

The Editor:
Dear Sir:

In one of the early issues
of the GAZETTE Last year, a
prize of $25.00 was offered for
the best yell submitted. No notification of the award was ever
published, thus I submit the following battle-ery with the hope
in mind that the award still remains,

Dalhousie ---- Tigers

Fight, Team, Fight,

Dalhousie ---- Kigers

Might means right.

-You’re the team we're rootimg
for,

Fight as you have fought before.

Dalhousie ---- Tigers
Fight, Fight, Fight!

Yours sincerely
Dave Clark.

P. S. I feel Better about this
since completing last year’s Engiish I Course.

... Editorial Commert: We think
you’ve got something ther. Dave.
We shall quiz the Council about

‘the award. Meanwhile the GAZ
ETTE would like to receive more
of this sort of thing. ...... ...... ......

. . , fe ; “e
3 “ ¥ -_ ea 1 i. . ; ®
‘

 

“Just look at that pass! Perfection!" a
"Check +/ .. now pass those Sweet Caps!"t a

BON ee ae

,
We ee 5) Nk ERI ay

.
. - ¥
cot td W = mete Te te
- . “= .
* Sp A 8S ~. 2
- .-— = 4 = 4 = ~~
~ » {
: _ ; Siw ; ra 7 ’
o> 7
~ gs ah | Ds - am
— 3 ~~ f = **. + -s - os a a ue
= om? ‘ ~—< Se a» Ase’ ;
- 4 : - -_ . % |
he “ rte ? Ma «
~- -_
=a.) a Ae as - 5 - . — :
Ps ed . - - ‘~- ’> " --. . oo
3
7 ~ aos < * , 4
> a
° < —a
~~ é el .
2 é oe ~
a m ‘
2 " : *
‘ a ¢ ose ed 3
‘ 5 ’
pt ore pate
oS —
- ~~ = ots ee.
- 7 me ~ .
~~ > '+ * =
—_ , =
al _ , 2
o* _ ° ~- ne
2 - - . a
cS . “
> —_~
- . Me ‘ w

i)

 

I’M SCARED

When future atomic encounters are waged,
And nations are fatally, briefly engaged,
I’d rather be happily stationed upon, 
The planet of Mars, than on Earth as a pawn,

 

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia _

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science

 

enjoys international distinction ,

Degrees of: Diplomas in: f
Bachelor of Arts Engineering :
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music Lia
Bachelor of Music : Pharmacy vo
Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science Mining Geology

Pre-Professional Courses
(stitial desi ast deere ae
Honour and Advanced Gourses in many de
in the B. Se, course about $210. 00 aoe

in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held im
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History,

The Professional Faculties

pate ee
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexeelled reputation,

Inclusive Fees

 

; Residences
Women students ‘live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Wo ,
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year : oa
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two aff@iated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special accommodation is provided for married and a ex-service

students,

Meals for all students are available at the Universi
For full information write te THE RE ISTRAR.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
  
  
   
 
     
    
  
  

 

ho

 

         
       
   
      
     
     
        
    
    
          
       
    
       
        
 
   
      
       
       
       
    
      
     
   
 
v3

>

  

| Hall season was held Tuesday

DEAN, PRESIDENTS

Urging Dalhousie students to think for themselves Dr. G. E.

| Wilson, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Science welcomed the Fresh
man class to these storied halls Friday at noon.
ac Dean Wilson stated that only through approaching the problems

and tasks of life from an individual aspect could students expect

to make a success of their future lives. This is a world of rough
roads, and not too many people will help us out along the way.
Heads of students societies spoke to the large freshman class,
asking them to take an interest in university activities. A healthy
interest in the societies and institutions governed by students would
do much to build up a vigorous spirit in Dalhousie.
Ross Hamilton, President of the Students’ Council spoke brief
‘ly on the place of Universities in the world today, emphasizing that

students are realizing more than ever their important part in the
seheme of things.

Other speakers were, Frank Flemming, Glee Club; Lew Miller,
Gazette; Frannie Doanie, D. G. A. C.; “Windy” O’Neill, D. A. A. C.;
‘Bernie Creighton, Freshman representative; Scott Morrison, Initiation
Committee; Geoffry Payzant, Band; Elsie Cruickshanks, Delta Gamma.

EE
DANCE HELD AT NOTICE

SE ae a : There are still positions to be
ay welt ne ee es filled on the GAZETTE. Students
Ypening dance o

interested are requested to meet
ir the GAZETTE Office, Tuesday, at 2 P. M.

D. G. D. S. Holds
Ghorus Photes

Dalhousie’s ambitious Glee
Club, looking forward to a banner year, intimated in an announcement from the office yesterday that all is not smooth in
Dalhousie Drama circles-- there
are a few faults to be ironed out.

Not the least of these is business left over from last year’s
big season. Geoffrey Payzant,
able prexy of the Chorus notified
the Gazette office yesterday that

night at the Hall under the able
snpervisica of the Initiation Committee.

This dance, an annual affair,
is, held to promote a more cordial relationship among the first
year students, who might, if not
given a chance to meet each other, feel left out of the social
whirl of Dalhousie.

Music was provided by a small
combination from Don Warner’s
orchestra. Miss Mowat, warden of
the girl’s residence, acted as chaperone,

S.C. M. TO HOLD ..
FIRST ‘CONFERENCE

First conference sponsored by
the Student Christian Movement
will be held at Pine Hill Oct.
4, according to an announcement made yesterday.

The conférence, starting at
2.80 p.m. and continuing through
the evening is aimed at giving
interested students an opportunity to study the Christian approach to the problems of university life.

Earlier part of the program
will be devoted to discussion periods, while later in the evening,

there are on hand in the Glee
Club office a large number of
photographs of last year’s chorus
which have not been picked up
by the persons for whom they
were ordered. Choristers are
urged to pick up their photos at
the office of the Glee Club as
soon as possible. There is also
the sad news that some choral
music has not been returned.
Sherriff Hall.

—_—_—_—_—_—_—_———
information, students should approach John Simms of Bob Mun
:
a a As “I “

then you know there’s something there”,

ae

entertainment will be provided.

: ford at Pine Hill, or Shirley
The executive advises that for

Weatherbee and Marie Milton at

OPINION DIVIDED
ON LONG SKIRTS

Opinion of Dalhousie co-eds appears to be evenly divided according
to a survey made on the campus Monday afternoon by Gazette researcher Patsy Pigot -- at least as far as the question of new, long
skirt styles as against old, short skirts is concerned, .
Seven out of ten freshettes expressed themselves as being against the new styles-- explained that a long skirt looked atrocious on
a short girl, especially a stubby one. They were alright on tall, slim
girls but in general they didn’t appeal. “They don’t add grace and
dignity as the designers claim’’, according to Dolores Sadosky, “they
are a racket dreamed up by the designers, and I certainly don’t like
them making money at My expense.”
Anne DeCarteret Said “they are a waste of opinion in these
days of scarcity and high costs.” |
-- Older girls, more inclined to like the new. fashions, felt that
they did much to add to a girl’s attractiveness. Seven out of ten
older girls were satisfied with the new skirt length. “I like them because they hide a multitude of sins”, was the answer given by Sophomore Noelle Barter, “they really look smart on tall girls, and can be
made to look attractive on short girls, too! eh
Eula Verge expressed a liking for the long ‘skirt because “it

a

_ keeps my legs warm at football games.”

Popular Patty MacKinnon .came through with a highly original

, Yeason for disliking the new style. She said “When I wear a long

skirt, it appears to be walking along by itself, so I wear a short one-
 

. el et / Py,
Paps ps, va” Sees sf
“]

 

 

ROSS HAMILTON

Council

Will Meet

Ross Hamilton, this year’s presidents of the Dalhousie Council
of Students announced yesterday
that an executive meeting of the
students governing body will be
held Monday, Oct. 6, in the Murray Homestead.

This meeting, an annual affair,
will consider financial budgets of
various student societies and organizations for the coming term.

ALUMNI SMOKER
SCHEDULED FOR
MID—OCTOBER

The Dalhousie Alumni Association Smoker, an annual campus
affair, will be held this year
Thursday, Oct. 16, in the Dalhousie Gymnasium at 8 o’clock.

Last year’s Alumni-Student
Smoker proved a great success.
Students heard Mr. John Martin
tell of his reminiscences of the
Dalhousie of former years there
athletic teams, hazing and pranks.
A half hour radio broadcast over
station C. H. N. S. enabled all
to send mellow notes soaring
over the air waves, singing songs
that Dalhousians have sung
through the years. Music for the

“evening was provided by the Don

Warner Sextet; Geoff Payzant’s
male Chorus led in song... smokes
were supplied by the Alumni Association.... FREE.

The program for this year’s
stag will be along the lines of
previous years with Dal songs,
variety numbers, lots of smokes
and refreshments, and again a
portion of the evening’s entertainment will be broadcast over
station C:; H. N. S.

VET ANNUAL DANCE
TO BE OCTOBER 10

Plans for an active year for
the Dalhousie-Kings Student Veterans Association got underway
yesterday with an announcement
by the Association resident, Tommy Giles.

First meeting will be held in
the Chemistry theatre, Science
building, Oct. 9, at 7.80 p. m.,
when plans for the coming. seasen will be formulated.

The annual dance will be held
in the Nova Scotian Hotel, Friday evening, Oct. 10, at 9. p.m.
Don Warner’s orchestra will supply the music.

ENDED

NEW WARDEN FOR
SHIRREFF HALL

Dalhousie girls who live in
Shirreff Hall this year have a
new Warden-- Mary C. Mowat,
one-time dietician at Hospitals in
Quebec and New Brunswick and
graduate of MacDonald College
and the Royal Victoria Hospital,
Montreal.

Miss Mowat at one time taught
home economics at Mount Allison
University and was club secretary
of the Y. W. C. A. in Halifax.
She received her earlier education
at Pictou Academy.

A diligent worker, Miss Mowat
has re-arranged the decorations
of the hall, and has let it be
known that she is always available when the girls have any
troubles to talk over.

 

Popular with the girls, the new

warden has made a @istinct impression with officials as well.

Top Enrolment

Heralds Work

A harrassed register’s staff

sighed deeply this week as the
work of registering Dalhousie’s
greatest enrolment dribbled to
an end, and professor took over
the task of straightening out tangled class schedules.

With enrolments in practically
every course offered by the university far exceeding expectations, possibilities are that classes,

in many instances, will be divided into two or more groups. This
procedure has already been carried out in some classes.

English 11, taught in the newly
acquired St. Andrew’s Hall, saw
a registration of 313. students;
History V, usually a seminar class
of some six students appealed to
75 students this week.

INITIATION

. the cosmetic

 

  

WEEK

FRIDAY

Initiation week is
proaching its end at Dalhousie
today, with the Halifax university’s largest freshman class looking forward with eagerness to
the completion of their trial by
indignities.

This year’s Freshman Committee, ably presided over by Scott
Morrison, has done a fine job in
the opinion of older students who

have seen other initiation periods.
The regalia which has been

latd down as’ standard wear for
the novice group is distinctive.
Girls wear their skirts upside.
down, boys wear their pants andi
coats inside out and: back to front
applications leave
little doubt as to who is a fresh
‘man and who -isn’t.
Saturday morning the ‘“Frosh’”
participated in a parade through
town, led by a rejuvenated band

decked out. in- new uniforms
through -the efforts of Geoff
Payzant.

Beginning with a dance in the
Gymnasium Friday night, the introductory week will come to an
end Friday, Oct. 3., at the Sophie-Frosh dance when the ridicule
and indignity which the initiates,
have suffered will cease, ‘and they
will become fullfledged brothers
of the fraternity of University:
students.

 

LAW GROUP HOLDS
FIRST MEETING

The largest turnout in Law
Society records turned up at the
first annual meeting-held at the
Munro Room, Forrest Building,
Wednesday Sept. 24, President.
of the Society Jim Cregan presided.

“Al” Trites was elected Member at Large from the first year
class, Gordon Black, football manager, and William Cox, debating
manager. Discussions were held
on general policy, and a financal report was presented.

Vice President Colin Smith
announced that the Law Ball
will be held Nov. 14 at the Nova
Scotain Hotel.

 

FRESHMAN PARADE ... .

Freshmen Parade

 

 

Scott Morrison (right foreground) Presidert

of the Initiation Committee is shown above as he lined up his Fros!»
class before Saturday morning’s parade through the streets of Halifax. Mr. Morrison is in charge of the initiation of Dalhousie’s larg
est freshman class.

     

 

fast ap- «
|

a)
wef

kc,

ee ont
REPORT

BY BOB TUCK

e with the home team taking a 9-7 win over the favored St.
y's bcegeregation, The most important aspect was not necessarily

a sie’ ‘could have dared to hope
_ And if they still have their appetite for English rugby they can

\ ‘watch the English rugby team when it swings into action. If there

Ce enough turnout and good enough material the team will
senior, if not, intermediate.

_ Elsewhere on this page appears a poll conducted with the idea

fj apepenining what the opinion concerning the switch in football

Is lesnaceiiy seem to favour the old game and the most uci vuatic
ion received (“It irks me’’) expressed one co- -ed reaction to
’ dian football. Among others of the old guard the opinion seemto be that the march of progress made the adoption of Canadian
football inevitable, but as far as their personal opinion was concern
5 | ed, they were sure that English rugby was the better game. A good

- y to. the new game,

half of those asked were Canadian rugbyists from way back, and
i hese were the ones that offered the bulk of technical criticisms and
comments, We found one English rugbyist that had been converted
and one former Canadian footballer who had come
“down. east’? and been converted to the old.

The team itself was quite pleased with its achievement although

“some of them were a bit hazy as to how they had accomplished it.

Bob McQuinn, as he was peeling off his armour commented that he

“wasn't quite sure what it was all about, people running about, talk
‘s
nt

ae |
Pad

C

Jing about four downs and yards and yelling numbers, but I guess
oe was all right.” It certainly was all right. With the polish and
experience that time and practice will bring, Dal will htve a sound
football team. Already they have beaten the team favoured to win
- the League championship.

It is this resurgence of spirit for football at Dal that the new
game has been designed to introduce. And judging by the perform
$ a ance of the Tigers on Saturday afternoon, there can be nothing but

optimism that the old spirit will come back. The team itself, how_ ever, cannot do it all. It is for the whole of Dalhousie to get behind
the team and match its spirit and foster its growth. This spirit on

' oy the part of Dalhousians was no more in evidence thtn usually on Sat
_ urday, but it is too early to make a judgement. Most of the crowd

i en the Dal section of the bleachers felt like the horse dealer that

ys Ray

ron

hy Pa

ees to the auto show. Once they become used to and acquainted
_ with the new game they will find it quite easy to transfer their afoes and root for Dal just as energetically as before.

oe

CURLING
_ MEETING FOR THOSE INTERESTED
Tues. Oct. 7. 12.00 A. M.

\" a ang b in ;
_ PHYSICAL DIRECTOR’S OFFICE

,

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| Campus Poli Reveals

Friday, Octeber 3, 1947

Rugby Preferences

Canadian
Football
Rules

The object is to advance the
ball 10 yards in 3 plays or
“downs”, This distance is measured by two officials on the sidelines with a chain. If the 10 yards
are gained the team retains possession of the hall, and the process is repeated until that team
moves the ball over the opponent’s: goal line for a touchdown.
If the team loses the ball om a
fumble, or a kick, or by failure
to gain the 10 yards in the 3
downs, the opponents take over
the ball and start their march
for the other’s goal line.

The ball is put in play by the
kick-off. This takes place at the
beginning of the game, at th:
beginning of the second half, and
after every touchdown.

The men in the backfield may
be placed in any position or formation, but the teams must have
five men on the line at all times.
The ball is put into play by the
snapback by means of snapping
the ball between his legs to one
of the backfield men. The offensive team may now (a) Forward pass; (b) Lateral pass; (ce)
Pass backward; (d) Punt; (e)
Run the ball.

A player attempting to secure
possession of a kicked ball must
be given 5 yards by opponents
who attempt to tackle. :

No player on either side shall
encircle in any degree any opponent with the arm or arms
except in making a tackle of the
ball carrier.

Players of the attacking side
may use their hatids and arms
for the purpose of breaking
through to follow down on a kick.

Players of the defending
may use their hands and arms r)
get at the ball or the player carrying it.

Penalties are imposed for offside, illegal interference, rough
play, illegal use of hands, ete,

side

The general penalty again ;t
the team with the ball is loss of
cne down; for some offenses
they may also lose an additional
10 yards. The general penalty
against the team without the
ball is loss of 10 yards.

The common penalty is for
“offside”. The players of the
team with the ball must remain
behind the ball until it is put into play. The opponents must
stand one yard from the team
with the ball.

————

The best indoor and outdoor
sporting equipment

is found at

THE SPORTS
LODGE

86 GRANVILLE ST.

‘

“Play More — Live Longer’”

English
Rugger
Schedule

At a meeting held in the Wanderers Clubhouse Tuesday a
schedule was drawn up forthe
City Intermedittes English Rugby
League. The league opens on Satutrday Oct. 4 with Acadia meeting King’s at Studley.

The Schedule;

1. Acadia at King’s Oct. 4
Services at Dal Oct. 8
Services at Acadia Oct.

Dal at King’s Oct. 11
Services at Acadia Oct.

King’s at Dal Oct. 13
Services at King’s Oct.

¥
Acadia at Dal Oct..18

oP AS AF w

Dal at Acadia Oct. 25

10. King’s at Services Oct.
11. King’s at Acadia Nov. 1
12. Dal at Services Nov. 1

There will be no play-offs held.
The team holding first place at
the end of the regular schedule
wili be declared League Champions,

SCORING
Touchdown — 5 points
A touchdown is awarded to the
team which carries the ball over
the opponent’s goal line.

Convert — 1 point

The teams scoring a touchdown
automatically makes a play for an
extra point, either by place kick
or forward pass. ’

Safety Touch — 2 points

When a player with the ball is
tackled fairly behind his own line
a safety Touch worth 2 points is
awarded the side making the tackle.

Piacement Kick — 3 points

The ball is passed out from the
dcrimmage and is held to the
ground by the receiver and the
kicker then attempts to kick it
between the bars and above the
cross-bar of the goal posts.

Rouge — 1 point

1 point is awarded the team
kicking the ball over the opponent’s goal line into the dead zone
behind it,

* a e 2 a
Interference: Certain players of
the team with the ball may blook
their opponents in an area 10
yards in advance of the spot from
which the ball was put into play.

QUESTION: “After watching
the game at Studley Field Saturday what is your opinion of Canadian football?”

R. E. JEFFREY — “TI have
seen a great deal of football in
Ontario and Quebec and I believe
that the principal difficulty in
the introduction of Canadian
foctball in the Maritimes in the
lack of proper grandstand facilities. The accumulation of gate
receipts will in time provide funds
to remedy the. situation. I believe that the game will get more
popular too.”

G -A. GREGOR — “As an American I am already prejudiced
to Canadian football. As for the
game Saturday, it was a good
game, not out of the ordinary,
and showed plenty room for improvement,”

D. NEISH — “The game Saturday was loosely played; I prefer the English game. There’’s
nothing to equal a three-quarter
line rush,”

A. HARE— “Canadian football is more interesting to watch,
and I believe that the Canadian
fcotball player is better off. I can
appreciate that because I have
played English rugby. The game
is more scientific.”

A. HARRIS — “I saw my first
English rugby game last year
and together with three friends
agreed that it was a better game
than Canadian football. But to
switch to Canadian football is the
sensible thing to-do because the
rest of Canada plays it.

R. McEWAN “Canadian
football is the interesting game
from the spectators’ point.of
view; it will definitely replace
English rugby. Personally I prefer the old game.”’

D. BETTS— “The Canadian
game is better than the English,
and I believe that each game at
Dal will get better.”

Zelda McKINNON — “T prefer
English rugby; the new game is
too slow.”

Marg O’NEIL— “Canadian
rugby is easier to follow and understand than the English game.,’’

Laurie BROWN — “Canadian
football? It irks me!”

S. ROBISON— “The new
game promises to be better than
English rugby. The last ten minutes of the game on Saturday
were good, and the play will definitely improve.”

ee

EVANGELINE |
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

Dal Off Hours

Cam Be Very Profitably Spent at the

Maritime Business College
73 College Street

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the
seven courses. are admitted as @eneral Students.
The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursdty

7.30 to 9.30

Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years

Enter any day.

Tuition counts from date of Registration

 
 
    

 
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
    
   
   
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
   

Shown thove are two action shots of Sajurday’s game against
St. Mary’s. Above left Dee Frawley is seen running the ball for St.
Mary’ s while crouching in his path is a Dal tackler, George Mattison
Frawley was outstanding for the Santamarians. Above right is a shot
ef the Dal touchdown. MacDonald carried the ball over the line, but
he does not appear in the picture because he was smothered by a

maze of tacklers that he literally carried over the line.

 

Smart, heads-up ball, played by

_ a team functioning as a sound

unit, carried the Dal Tigers :o
an upset 9-to-7 victory over a
favored St. Mary’s. squad in the
epening game of the Halifax Canadian Football League last Saturday afternoon. Played befors
an overflow crowd at Studlez
Field in perfect football weather,

the game produced Many individ
‘the game produced many individknit team play of the victors that
told the story.

St. Mary’s started off very
fast, scoring two rouges before
the game was five minutes old.

ice Johnny Young punted in
to the Dal end zone and twice

Paul Lee was tackled behind the
goal line as he tried to carry the
ball out of the end zone. This
2-to-0 lead was erased by the Tig¢is after three minutes of play
in the second quarter, as Bob

MacDonald scored from four
yards out on a line plunge
through centre. When Kenny

Reardon converted the point after touchdown, Dal led, 6-2.

A pair of St. Mary’s fumbles
deep in their own territory set
tp the Dal score. Following the
second one, Young punted and
Bob Wilson returned it to the

~

 

LOOK YOUR BEST
Keep Pressed!

A smart well-groomed appearance is bound to influence
those you meet. How you look
indicates what you are. Be
dressed be PRESSED

Maroon and White 23 yard line.
Wilson then ripped off ten yards
and a first down on the 13, and
after an incomplete pass, Le2
dreve to the 4 to set the stage
for MacDonald’s scoring buck.
The Dal advantage soared to 8-2
a minute later when Dee Frawley,
the outstanding star for the crosstowners, was trapped behind °t's

own goal line for a safety.

" The Dal-dominated third quarter produced a rouge for the Tige's, and the last period saw St
Mary’s pressing hard all the tim:
to try and pull the game out.
But, after Young intercepted a
pass from Lee and ran 30 yards
tor the Irish touchdown on the
third play of the quarter, the Dal
team showed its mettle as they
threw back every St. Mary’s rush,
with four different players intercepting two passes’ and recovering two fumbles, and with the
jite and backfield showing wel!
or tackling.

In addition to the swivel-hip.ed Frawley, who carried the batl
on most of the St. Mary’s ru:ning plays, and whom the Dal]
tacklers found. very difficult to
bring down, Frankie Graves,
Young, Bingo Ernst, and Frank
Kelly showed. well for the visitors. Particularly noticeable for
the Dal in the bruising, hardfought game was the field generalship and all-around play of
Lee, the punting and tackling of
Wilson, the running of Bob MacDonald, and the line play of Pet
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   

Sport Personalities

EDDIE CROWELL
EDDIE CROWELL — Eddie Crowell, Commerce student at Dal

has matched other Dalhousians’ success in tennis and baseball with

his own prowess in golf. During the summer Eddie annexed the Nova
Scotian and Maritime golf Championships and just the other day
added the Htlifax Golf and Country Club Championship. The previous champ was Peter Doig, Dal freshman this year who had eliminated Eddie in the finals last year. In other tournaments Eddie was
among the leaders and has established himself as one of the outstanding tmateur golfers in the Dominion.
BUDDY CONDY
BUDDY CONDY — Last, but by no means least, stands the
name of belting Buddy Condy of the Halifax Arrows. Buddy is a
Med student at Dal in the winter and the free swinging batting
star of the Arrows in the summer. It was his smoking bat that was
the main factor in the championship drive of the Arrows. Among
other distinctions he was awarded the most valuable player award
for the H-D League and topped everybody in homeruns with 12.
Buddy’s tendency to take wild cuts will probably cause concern
among future patients.

%

NANCY JONES sg 5
One of our star King’s co-eds, Nancy Jones, second year Arts student, distinguished herself this summer by copping three Provincial
Junior tennis titles. Nancy scored an easy win over Truro’s entry
in the Ladies’ Singles, and with Nancy Hazen, also of Halifax, she
captured the Ladies’ Doubles. Dal freshman Jim Mahon, another Halifax tennis star, teamed up with Nancy to take the Mixed Doubles.
With players such as these two, watch our dust in the coming Intercollegiate Tennis Tournaments.

PETER DOIG

Peter Doig, one of the new arrivals at Dalhousie, has made
quite a name for himself on the links this past summer.

He captured the Nova Scotia Junior Golf championship, and
was runner-up to our own Eddie Crowell in the Senior affair. Pete
and Eddie, together with two other Nova Scotians represented their
native province on the Willingdon Cup team in the match held at
Quebee last August.

Pete, who was last year’s Maritime Junior Golf champ, and was
edged out in the Canadian Junior title race that season, tried again
this year to capture the Canadian title; He once again came close to
his goal and finished in sixth place.

English Rugger League
Holds First Meeting

The Halifax English rugby

 

strong teams from their various

er (Mingo, Vince Morrison, and

be a: at all times. Pete MacDonald.

{Don Schelew

139 Hollis Street

 FADER’S
PHARMIACY
LIMITED

PRESSING

Studley Drug Store
DRYCLEANING 29 Coburg Road
ALTERATIONS Fader’s Drug Store

141 Hollis St.

~ THE NOVA SCOTIA
TECHNICAL COLLEGE

Offers Degree Courses In
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, CHEMICAL
METALLURGICAL, AND MINNING ENGINEERING
Twenty Scholarships of $75. each are Offered To mors
Scotia Studens holding Engineering Diplomas:
Modern Equipment, Instructional Staff with Individual
Experience.

 

 

APPLY .FOR CALENDAR
ALLEN E. CAMERON, PRESIDENT

Sn a RE SS, — = aoe are roe a

 

league will be played by teams
from Dalhousie, King’s, Acadia
and Navy, according to a decision made Monday by officials of
the City League.

Meeting at the Wanderer’s clubhouse, the delegates heard ‘“‘Windy” O’Neill of Dal state that an
earlier meeting of the Dalhousie
DAAC decided that. the University could omly place an mtermediate team in the Englisn rughy
set-up. He qualified this however
by saying that Dalhousie, if successful in winning the Intermediate League title would challenge
for the McCurdy Cup emblematic of supremacy in Maritime English Rugby. The challenging team
would be bolstered by players
from the Canadian football team.

Andy Duffus, representing
Wanderers, said that his organization had indefinately withdrawn
from the English game. Other representatives from King’s, Acadia, and Services promised

organizations.

The first Intermediate game of
the season will be played at Studley on Oct. 4 between Acadia
and King’s. Dalhousie’s first game
has been set for Oct. 8. The
game will be played at Studley
against Services. The League
schedule appears elsewhere on
these pages.

Things are looking up for Dalhousie’s hockey team this winter.
Among new students registering
at Dal this fall is Jimmy Gray,
former Acadia student and one
of the Maritimes top hockey and
baseball players.

 

In the first exhibition football
game to be played between east
ern and western teams this sea-
son, the fast-moving Toronto
Blues battered down the Saskatchewan Huskies, 65-0 in Saskatchewan.

 

CAMPUS
ROUNDUP

~ If the first events are any
criterion, Dalhousie is in for a
banner year. To assure the success of the frosh hazing, it is
said that the committee in change
locked themselves up in the dungeons under Shirreff Hall, eating only bread and water, for two
weeks, in order to put themselves
in the right mood. However, the
frosh are bearing up quite well
and after their showing last Saturday, old hands predict a good,
lively class.

At this stage, a word or two
to the freshmen is in order. Dalhousie has a very high schoiastic
standing, but it also has a high
standard of social life. Most Dalhousie students know a _ great
persentage of there fellow registered students. This amazing
situation is brought about by one
factor ----- activities. Everyone
in the university worth hie salt
is mixed up in something, and in
their pursuance of duties meet
the other student workers. It is
a very, very crammed course that
will not allow one to partake in
the extra-curricular activities, ..

The Dalhousie Glee Club is one
of the finest in Canada. Last year,
its Shakespearian Twelft Night
was an unexcelled student preduction, as was “The Man Who
Came To Dinner”. The Gilbert
and Sullivan “Trial By Jury”
played to packed houses of happy
lovers of the stage and music,
The Gazette, the ctudent newspaper, after a fine year in ’46,
is aiming to re-capture the Bracken Award, emblematic of Canadian College Newspaper supremacy- The DAAC is the largest
organization on the campus and
has great need for those with administrative ability,

It will be a great asset for
future college years, and for that
matter for the rest of life, te
make a host of friends here, this
year. The one sure way is to join
one of the above organizations
and only in this way can Dalhousie maintain her present position amongst Canadian universities. won ir bt

Last Stturday, Dalhdusie and
Canadian Football got off to an
auspicious start, much to the chagrin of those gaelic types who live
over near (some people say IN)
the Willow Tree and who were
very, very impolite all afternoon.
The Dalhousie team had thirteen
men on the field and their thirteenth was their most effective
man----his name was overconfidence. Much of the success of the
game was due to the frosh whe
were men of all trades from
pelicemen to ticket sellers, and
who lent themselves as walking
advertisements behind the smartly dressed Dal band.

This corner lifts one tall, foamy
coke in salute to all those stirling souls who gave freely of their
efforts to make the opening game
such a camplete success.

A great initiation will be climeéxed next Friday night with a
Monster Dance (come and bring
your own monster) where recelcitrant frosh will be dealt with
a la Dalhousie,
   

students, the name International Student Service
suggests a half-hearted effort to raise money to disappear
he welter of European needs following the war. It is hoped to
ify the nature, functions, and needs of the I. S. S. in these pages
e mee ee era and to show to Dalhousie students their

phlet issued by the British ea ila Committee sets

pUrpos > of the International Student service very clearly:

a S. Ss. is a service, by means of which students and profesover are able to meet each other; visit each other's

       
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
      

e world

ies; and when the need is there to help each other. Developed

2 tee the European Student Relief Fund, it has spread across

et.

4 - S.. Ss. has over twenty years experience of cultural co-operr and relief work behind it. Believing in certain fundamental

ersity ene it disregards all differences oF race, religion

es, an sistdenatiniial Wace. in Geneva and an Internat4 c Assembly which, in time of peace, meets twice yearly. This
embly is responsible for carrying out a programme on the basis
: ions put forward each year at the International Con
+e

? ie |
: ne ‘i oer Ahaventige.
oS wa - Consider the advantages of being able to travel at reduced fares
i id i to spend six months, a year, or more in a foreign university for
sout the same fees one would pay for a similar course at home.
va he writer of this article made a survey of centres of higher learning
os | Holland » this summer to prepare a report which will be submitted
o the Canadian Committee in November for the purpose of setting
p the apparatus. for such free, reciprocal exchange.
he _ The Dutch universities and the Ministry of Education, Arts and

eee. enthusiastically supported the plan in its beginnings and

re awaiting the next move on the part of Canadian students with

reat interest. The I. S. S. committees in Denmark, Norway and Swedn are watching our progress with interest and are already estabne i \s hing exchanges and tours something like that arranged between
BR Canada and Holland this summer. In this exchange five Canadian
caite students went to Holland for the summer and one student comes
from Holland to spend a year at a Canadian university. The Can__adians pay for the Dutch student in Canada and he for them in
a toa balancing amount in exchange.

Uti Canada is perhaps the pioneer in the new work of building up
- eultural relations among the universities of the world, and Dal- housie students could do far worse than to take an active interest
in the ‘progress of any schemes along these lines.

Geoffery B. Payzant

, Editor’ s Note: Mr. ere was the Dalhousie representative

           
       
     
       
      
         
 
    
          
    
     
    
    
 
     
      
    
 
   
   

  

_  & HOPEFUL PROPHESY

Tr happily cannot foresee
in this, an age of ni

  
  
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
     

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

mS.

" FRESHMAN’S
VIEW

While sitting in my room trying to think what to write on the
initiation I decided that it might
help a little if I looked up the.
exact meaning of the word to
better my scanty knowledge of
the subject. Thumbing through
my dictionary I found that the
werd initiation means the ceremonial rites by which one hecomes a member of a society or
fraternity. This leads me to believe that all the cards and facial
make up that I am wearing makes
me eligible for the.society of Dalhousie University. And yet is
that all the initiation signifies?

I have been trying to find a
root to this horseplay and it all
boils down to the same thing;
it enables the freshman to get
acquainted with the rest of their
classmates and the rest of the
fellows in their freshman year.
Quite a few of the freshman are
from out of town and it makes
for better feeling all round if
some of their friends are freshmen and freshettes from the city
of Halifax as life in the residences is not the same as that which
you would fifd at home.

Most of the people in Halifax
seem to look forward to the days
when they see all the Dal freshmen and freshettes parading the
streets in various stages of disarray and I actually think the
frosh enjoy it themselves. For
who could help laughing, even at
themselves, when a gang of frosh
turn up at a drugstore and order
a dozen or more of the cheapest
sandwiches in the house and in
the meantime start searching the
premises for a moth, much to
the proprietor’s indignation. Or
when a whole crowd of what obviously Jook like the Dal frosn
turn up at a theatre and ask the
usher for used stubs.

Again returning to my trusty
dictionary I found the derivation
of the word sophomore, something
that will delight all frosh who do
not know the original meaning,
for I am told that sophomore is
from the Greek sophos - wise,
and moros - foolish, in other

(Continued on page 8)

SS ES

Pei e

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

Friday October 3, 1947

 

DEAR CHILDREN...

This, Dear Children, is the first of a series of little talks designed to acquaint you with your surroundings. This is dedicated in particular to the freshmen, to whom all this must seem strange, and
so unlike home. We have tried hard not to put in toe many long
words, but there is a dictionary in the Library to which you can re-~
fer in case there are a few. The dictionary is heavy; but the Librarian will help you.

Entering the Campus from Morris St., we see a row of Buildings. Buildings are always important, and these have a purpose. To
quote a member of the Dalhousie GAZETTE, “they are the repository,

not only of Dignity and of Higher Learning (both applicable and

useless), but of Several Important Intitutions, such as the GAZETTE...” On the other hand, as a prominent football player said:
“In the D. A. A.C. we see the culmination of a progress which began
in Byzantium and Cordoba a thousand years ago!”

Facing east, we observe the most important building in the
group on our far right. This is the Arts Building, so-called because
it houses the GAZETTE Office, which is in the basement. In the
GAZETTE Office are such people as S. Peeps, the Red Peril (who
is still here) and O’Neil occasionally. If the GAZETTE Office seems
a little. dusty, moth-eaten or decayed, it is only because its members,
the most important functionaries of this institution, are too busy to
worry about other things. Also, in’the Arts Building, you may see
the odd professor, or a classroom or two.

Next door is the Men’s Residence; men live in the Mens’Residence. Men eat there. That is all that can be said about the Mens’
Residence. Then comes the Gym: in the Gym Store they sell things,

such as sandwiches and coffee, or cake and coffee or sandwiches
and chocolate milk. And books. I was forgetting books. Inside the
Gym there are the D. A. A. C., the D. G. A. C., the D. M. M. D. S.,
the Campaign, the Alumni and the Showers (in that order). Across

‘the way is the Science Building. It is therefore of no importance.

We pass on to the Library. The Library is very important; what
with Dignity and Decorum and Books it is very imposing. It has
“Punch” but not the “New Yorker” or “Esquire.” You can smoke
downstairs.

The Murray Homestead is also Very Seiten thie it is going to
be pulled down. It also has the Citizen’s Forum and the Students’
Council. At the Citizens’ Fourm you could get tea and cake for
only fifteen cents (.15c). Or you could last year.

The Students’ Council is very important; I don’t know why, but
it is: They always are. All the best Universities have them. Last year
we had elections.

There are other places, too; Behind the Library is the Archives
which is full of pictures. In the first room to the left as you go in
the door there is a picture of a lady with no clothes on. There is
also King’s College, where they wear gowns if they eat. If they don’t
eat, I guess they wear clothes, like anybody else. There is also the
Engineering building, where the Engineers go; they work too hard,
and are rather quiet. There is also Shirreff Hall, which doesn’t matter.

At this college we have sports. We play English rugby, Canadian
rugby and there is a movement to bring in Belgian Congo rugby.
We play ice-hockey, field hockey, ground hockey and gym hockey.
Other places are Inferior in this Respect. Even if they do win series,
and get bigscores and things, they don’t have the fun we do arguing
about them. This is a Big Advantage Dal has.

Even the most stupid Frosh should find these articles a source
of valuable information. We close our informal talk with one of the
old college songs so dear to us all:

In the days of Tutanhkamon,

There were alcoves at the Hall,

But the march of progress came along

And a floodlight spoils them all.

&. Pe C.F.

“Swat SoPHOMORE
(IS FAIRLY DRUNK
WITH PowER™

 

A LACK, ALAS
{If I seem a trifle pensive,
It’s because I’m apprehensive
That the girl for whom ]’m yearning
Might discover what I’m earning.

- ae ; LEW

oN
    
  

 
 

 
  
    
 
   
  
 
  
  

4 Dall thousie Amateur Athletic Club.
is. the largest organization on
campus, having, as members,
eg: stered Dalhousie male

ancil of Students annual fee.
- elub has an executive of a

; scice- president and a secretI, who, along with appointed
: r presentatives of each faculty,
Pee om up the ree Commit
 

‘One of the privileges the girls

ri ri at Dalhousie gain when they pay

co Students’ Council fee is
- membership in Delta Gamma.
' Society. The society sponsers all
the girl’s activities on the Campx us except for sports.
£ Two general meetings are
_ Usually held during the year
when the year’s activities are
_ planned. The girls entertain at
| i Qpen House at Shirreff Hall sev{ eral times., but when they really
: ie take charge is during co-ed week,
i held early in February. That is
_ the time when the girls take out
the boys. The big event is
E the Sadie Hawkins Dance which
Se winds up the week. Everybo iy
; dresses up in Dogpatch style,
_ and a wonderful time is guaran- teed. f
s Delta Gamma enters a one| “™ act play in the Connolly Shield
a - competition, Which is an oppor:
¥ tunity for girls interested in draF Wiapates. Tryouts will be held fur
those who want to enter in Debating competitions. The Society
as a debating team, and work
a this. field counts towards .
- Gold D.
_ The Officers of the Society for
me this. year are:—

 

   

_ President Ae Elsie Cruickshank
| Sect’ y-Treas, ........ Frances Jubien
' Freshette Rage 8... Janet Sinclair

fa... Mer. P. MacKinnon
_ Debating Mer. Helen Powell
[a ‘Social Bene ck luke Carmel White

£E ‘Watch the notices for the
First meeting, We expect to’ see
' a good turnout of Freshettes.

> pusLiciTy
- COMMITTEE

Vas The Job of Publicity Director
: ee . . .

» at Dal is a new one, and its im) mediate objectives are threefold :ig 1—To establish greater inter| es' and spirit among Dal students.

  
   
 

\ _ 1—To advertise adequately
i. campus events to the students
, themselves.
j

( - $—To advertise campus events
_ te the gneral public.

ee 4 Each organisation on the cam‘pus has a representative on the
= Committee, who will notify tae

f Pe tnintitec of an  approachiny:
event, which will be published.
he Students Council will authorize such publication before at

   
        
     
     
     

atte place.
Anyone interested in working
on the Publicity Committee

stould contact Arthur Mears, reeently appointed Didector, whose
_ Office will be in-the Gym. There
oa a variety of work to be done,
such: as poster-painting, compos‘ing newspaper advertisement, and
Medeteibation of such macerual.
| Points will be awarded towards a
Gold D for this work. Since this
a oe’, sheen the staff

be Bb is Weeemeicrg:
ae i se 4 > a

gets

  

 
 
  
 
  

  

   

o pares 8
4 pits ae My

an na eo ify: Pit Vy
age. lati’ =

Ler pe

tee, which makes the decisions
ies.

The object of the DAAC is the
promoting of all types of college
athletics and the physical improvement of the male students
of the aniversity. The incumbent Managing Committee is putting their effort to injecting new
life into Dalhousie athletics by
laying stress on _ inter-faculty
sports. The Council of Students
votes the money, obtained hy
their fee, to defray the expenses
of carrying on’ these athletics,

_8o that all members should take

part in Dal sports, as much as
possible, and use the facilities to
which they are entitled.

A big year is planned in interfaculty sport, which will start
out with English Football and
include inter-faculty basketball
and hockey. New sweaters have
been purchased to outfit the different faculty hockey and football teams and also basketball
singlets. Last year, a great number of students participated with
enthusiasm, in these sorts, and it
is hoped that even more will do
so this year. It makes an excellent opportunity for new students
to meet other Dalhousians from
every faculty on the campus.

For those students of superior
talents and with more time on
their hands, Dalhousie sponsors
many teams to represent the university in Maritime college athletics. This year, Dalhousie is
leading, as it should, in the introduction of Canadian Football so
widely played by universities in
the other parts of Canada. The
venture looks as if it will be a
successful one as other Maritime
universities are making plans to
play the game next year. Dal
sponsors a varsity English Football team, a varsity hockey team,
a varsity basketball squad and
also varsity tennis, badminton,
Swimming, track and _ boxing
teams. This year an effort is being made in a golf tournament
and that grand old winter game
of curling. The DAAC sees that
the best possible in equipment
and coaches is procured. Arrangements have been made to enable
students to play table tennis, badminton and squash in their spear
periods.

For those who are not athlet- —

ically inclined but wish to partake
in the numerous trips made by
the Dal Tigers through the Maritimes, there aré managers and
assistant managers positions opened, for which they apply, in
writing to the Managing Committee. The activities of the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club
rovide an exellent chance for
students to know others and become known to others, and also
to. improve their physical wellbeing.

D. G. A. C.

All girls holding Students’
Council cards automatically become members of the Dalhousie
Girls’ Athletic Club, and are entitled to participate in any of
the Club’s. activities.

 

The major sports are badminton and basketball. Student badminton is held one night a week,
and on D .G. A. C. night, there
is an opportunity to play both
badminton and basketball. One
badminton team and two basketball teams enter City and Intercollegiate Leagues, the latter

league envolving trips te other

collleges,
Tennis and Ground Heckey
(Continued on page 8)

THE DALHOUSIE GAZErTE

President’s

WELCOME

Once more the Campus swells
with activity as another year begins. On the playing fields sports
have begun. From some room
comes the sound of Band practice, and everywhere Professors
and Students prepare for classes.
The various organizations plan
their many activities.

The Council of the students
welcome both the new faces and
the old back to Dalhousie and
hopes that this year, with the
largest enrollment in our history,
this institution will be honoured
by your observance of the fine
traditions to which we are all
heirs.

Studies are the most important part of the student’s life
here. Without due obervance of
this fact we become “nihilists”
who add nothing to the life of

the University, but, on the con
trary, detract from it. Extra-curricular activities, are, in some
respects, an equally great contribution to the lives of the students here, and should be contributed to.

On behalf of the Council of
the Students I heartily welcome

you all and hope that you will 
help to make this year a memorable one.

Ross Hamilton,

President,

The Council of the Students.

GAZETTE

Beginning its eightieth year of
publication, the GAZETTE, Canada’s oldest student publication,
presents to the student body an
eight page, tabloid size account
of what occurs at Dalhousie University. Financed partly by Students’ Council funds and partly
by advertising the GAZETTE will
appear twenty times during the
academie year. (During the few
remaining weeks in the year members of the staff may be seen
regularly attending classes, endeavouring to catch up with those

 

who are forunate enough to be

born without printer’s ink im
their viens.)

The GAZETTE takes life, one
might say ‘‘wolves’, in the cellar office of the Art’s Building
on Studley campus. It is here
that the editorial board meets

(Continued on page 8)

Oxford Theatre

Mon. Tue. Wed.
Dick Tracey’s Dilemma
e Locket

 

 

 

Thurs. Fri. Sat.
Love and Learn

Black Angel

I

sarees

 

Dad Students —
A welcome awaits you at
I hirccsenee. doeton!
456 Barrington Street,
Wiis. vou -wilkoeind ik

complete Musie Service

and the finest
Sports Equipment,

Page Seven

 

GLEE CLUB NOTES

The Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society is the body which presents our musical and dramatic talent to the public and te the student

body.

If you want to act, or if you are fond of singing, the Glee Club
is the place for you. If you join the Dalhousie Glee and Dramatie
Society, you -won’t be sorry. Ask any student who came into the

organization in his Freshman year.

The Glee Club has its headquarters at the back of the gymnasium
stage. In this office at least one member of the Eeecutive can al
ways be found.

Having inspected the office,
you might next come upon a
Shakespearian play rehearsal on
the stage, where Mr. Leslie Pigot,
Dalhousie’s dramatic director, is
training a fresh staff of Shake
SODALES

‘In two weeks another season
of the Sodales Debating Society
begins. Another year of incipient
creators will be heard on the platforms of the University. You, unknown to yourself, may be a modern Edmund Burke or a second
Disraeli. Here, in any case, is a
golden opportunity for all and
sundry with leanings towards the
art of public speaking-- a highly
important art in everyday life.
Simply become an active member of Sodales.

To enter a team, simply contact your debating manager—
that is the manager for your facuty, who will enter your name
fir the years debates. The officers of the Society for this
year are:—

President — Whitney Dalrymple; Vice-President — Bob Kaill;
Secretary — Ivan Cormier; Publicity Manager — C€. Henderson
Smith; Gazette Reporters — Dave
Jamieson; The following are the
Faculty managers: Arts & Sei
 

ence — Lew Miller; Law ~— Bill
Cox; Commerce — Al Baccar.iax; Gelta Gamma — Helen Pow
ell;

Other activities of the Society
are Intercollegiate Debates which
take place later in the year. In the
University itself Sodales sponsors
a debating league between che
different faculties, for which the
Beunett Shield is awarded. Last
Year this was won by the first
Law Team, of Harvey, Blakeney
and Cox.

This year, Sodales needs all the
support it can get from studen*;.
Tiials should be held shortly, -.
in order to obtain a place on a
team, see the debating manager
of your faculty.

spearian actors. Below the stage,
in the lower gym, the chorus is
apt to be under the direction of
Gecffry Payzant, who is inevitably in the midst of demonstrating to a member of the cast just
kow to inject into his part the
true Gilbert and Sullivan spirit,
You can’t sing? — Don’t worry.
You want to sing, and that’s what
matters. You may be surprised te
find that you have a good voice,
and meantime you'll have some
fun learning to develop it,

The concert orchestra has its
headquarters in the bandroom.
Frank Padmore wields the baton.
If you play an instrument, working with this ensemble will give
you an interesting hour or two
each week, several performances
during the year, and a wealth of
experience and instruction from
coinpetent musicians. Under the
same department falls Ernie
Heighton’s band which you have
keard on the football field.

If you feel yourself unable to
partake in these activities, there
cre still several departments open to all comers. Perhaps you are
interested in scene painting and
designing, ushering, posterpainting, costuming, make-up, or even
office work. We need new recruits in every one of the many
fields which the Glee Club covvers. Perhaps the most important
branch of all is the stage crew
unit, sometimes called the “Glee
Club’s unsung Heroes” because
of their capable and necessary
work backstage. As you can ses,
there are openings for everybody.

If you decide to become one of
us - which we earnestly hope you
will do - you can be assured of
tu interesting extra-curricular
year. This season offers a widely
varied program with a chance
for all to participate. Tryout ;rehearsals will soon be announced
for the forthcoming Shakesperian
production, “As You Like It”,
{o be staged before the end of
the first term. Early next term

(Continued on page 8)

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL

COKE °*

FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

& SmarT-Look SMART

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning, BrytcrEeem will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BrYLCREEM im
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

RUT ace VR ma DOL

    
   
    

 
Pea im

¥
. oy =

re ee

phe, ee ae is aE — aed eS _ PJ
: > a a oe 4 - y , .
4 qe a SS har U c

d be ines —

ee =

~

a

':

COCA-COLA, LTD. — HALIFAX

~

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage de.
signed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

aS

s . \
NURSERIES Limited...

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Join in...
have a Coke

“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the tegistered trade marks which

distinguish the product of Coca-Cola Ltd.

THE
GREEN LANTERN
RETAURANT

‘The sign of a good meal’
407-409 Barrington St.

381 earrincton st. wALFAx

— ~<——F a
at

tae

sant

Sasa

Say

lt was a good slogan in war.
“Say Schwartz and be Sure”
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
der and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz& Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

oe = eee ee eee ee ee

and be sure!

. We urge it for your protection

SCHWARTZ

It is now a good slogan in peace:

5 ee eee ee ees eee

a

i
ies oot ee
ee es
; }
iy f r
¢ E 7 »
a oe
°* ‘Sa

2 - i " “
ae ~
- ~ Ses | Neale “ = a
ee - P wal _
i - as ,
ee i. " <
“ = r =" a an
= . .
- a 1
: - face - eens, = ee —<~ Sa aia a ae Se SSE
‘ A

Shane’s Men’s Wear, Ltd.

112 SPRING
HALIFAX:

We cordially invite all new
students as well as our old
college friends to pay us a

visit at our modern well stocked store. We are conveinently
located near both the Forrest
and Studley campus and have
long been accustomed to supply the wants of students
Let this experience be of benefit to you any time you need
anything in the line of clothing or men’s furnishing.

Drop in and see our well
stock modelled expressly for students.

rounded

“SMART STYLES FOR STUDENTS”

GARDEN ROAD
NOVA SCOTIA

e *.
7
ee «
*.
«

FRADE

at home

tat owe aoe

GAZETTE

(Continued from Page 7)

weekly to plot out the stories

for the coming issue; and it is

also here that students assemble
at any odd interval to discuss,
in their ways, such things as religion, politics, and living.

Considerable work is necessary before the GAZETTE appears on the campus, and, consequently, the ephemeral and
non-professional staff is prone to
occasional errors-- and often
much criticism from the few
students on the campus who fail
to realize how human and inexperienced the staff is. The GA '’ETTE, here, makes no excuses
for failings of the future. I:
merely asks for objective criticism and aid from those who are
interested enough to read its
pages.

In a brief account it would be
impossible to describe the details
of the birth of each issue. We
shall merely say that from the
time the editorial board meets
to discuss the next issue until the
press is sending out the completed
sheet a great amount of co-ordinated work has been accomplished.

FIRST CANADIAN RUGBY

"ah
Oe

Friday, October 3, 1947
(Continued from page 2)

priate action should be taken immediately by the student body.
Special mention must be given to the Dalhousie band. They,
also, must have worked long hours to produce so well.

But there was a failing which we feel can be remedied. --- There ©

is nothing more pleasing to the ear of a hard-fighting athlete than
a word of encouragement when the odds seem insurmountable. The
GAZETTE feel that we Dalhousians owe it to our team to place an
organized group of supporters on the sidelines, to follow the action
and encourage the athletes. In subsequent games let us remember
that the players are working for us at the risk of injury, and let us
support them no matter what the score may be.

D.G. A. C,

(Continued from page 7)
start immediately, and these are
also entered im Intercollegiate
Leagues. Last year Dal co-eds
were victorious in both sports.
The ground hockey team will be
playing Acadia for the Provincial title, the winner meeting the
New Brunswick Champions for
the .Maritime title.

Minor sports include archery,
ping pong, and swimming. This
year it is hoped that a Telegraphic Meet will be held in archary. The Stadacona pool is secured once a week for D. G. A. C.
members, who may try for the
team which will attend the Intercollegiate Meet.

Interclass competition in the
various sports is always keen,
the class with the highest number of points being awarded a

FRESHMAN’S VIEW
(Continued from page 6)
words they are wise fools. I wonder how many of the frosh agr-e
with the dictionary on the mean
ing?

I think that if most of us go
over the initiation and delve into the hidden meanings und...
lying most of the activities we
will realize that the sophs are not
such a bad group as we thought
them in the first place.

Whether or not the worke-s
ever receive praise matters little,
for if they have gained nothing
else at university they have gained the satisfaction of work ¢
with a splendid group of studen:s.
Cameraderie runs high, and every
student at Dal is welcome t)
share it. This is your GAZETTE.
Come and work for it.
shield.

D. G. A. C. Executive
President Fran Doane
Sect’y-Treas. ........ Marilyn Hebb
Badm’n Man. P. MacKinnon
Gr. Hockey Man. .... Pat Snuggs
Swimming Man. .... Marg. O’Neill
Tennis. Maen: .4.6.00S. Betty Petrie
Archery Man. .... N.- MacDermid

Attractively set up departments

featuring —

®@ BOOKS

®@ MUSIC

® RECORDS

@® PIANOS

@® ELECTRIC. APPLIANCEE

Willis Piano

Co. Limited

127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N. S.

RADIOS

- PLAYERS
INSTRUMENTS

Available on easy time payment plan
THE MUSICROOM, LTD.
“The City’s most exclusive music house.”

46455

105 Gottingen Street

Complete Musical Library Including All Canadian
And American Recordings — Exclusive Capitoi

Dealer.

“GLEE CLUB NOTES

(Continued from page 7)

a modern three act play will be
produced - last year we gave “The
Man Who Came.to Dinner’, ta
sive an idea of the type of drama
to be chosen. And in February we
shall present a Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, “H. M. S. Pinafore’, which, if it follows in the
footsteps of its predecessor,
“Trial by Jury”, should prove an
all-round suecess. Last year’s
cherus members are already impatient to start rehearsals; this
will give you some conception of
th- enthusiasm with which this
musical project is anticipated.

So, with this advance bulletin
on a few of the shows planned
for the 1947-48 Dal year, we invite your interest and participation. Come along to any of the rehearsals for your show, the freshman show, an annual event which
is up to you, Dalhousie’s new
students, to put over with a bang.
Come on, all you Frosh, and show
us the talent and enthusiasm we
know you’ve got,

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

OCT. 4th. - 10.
“SINGAPORE”
Staring —
Fred MacMurray &
Ava Gardner

STARTING OCT. 11th.

“DOWN TO EARTH”
A Musical in technicolor

Staring —
Rita Hayworth &
Larry Parks

DALHOUSIE RINGS
Birks have in stock
official college rings in,

10K gold.

Coming soon will be

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

SE a a ee *

, Footwear
I. onl
that fit every
Btaste — for either service or B
dress wear, the
campus or social
functions.
We cordially
eg

specialize in

will college
for around

attending

invite you to
pay us a visit. We present s&ich
“Hart”, ‘“‘Slater’’
“Ritchie’’.

lines as

“Murray” and

Shoe Store

397 Barrington St., Halifax
Ca a i

ay ree of nal v8 or" rs eae ;
as "i

ee ee ee 4
rp es vA a4 We sTie © ®

| mounted °n black onyx.

ai

“-)

-_


SHANE’S 2°

t

 
