e

\

‘

=

2 eee sg
3) wa te)
2 OT ae

 

 

_ LAST
GAZETTE
BEFORE
EXAMS >

 

 

GAZ

ZETTE

   

a

~

DAL’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

HALIFAX, N.

 

ol. 79

 

 

 

Bacide To
Join Nifcus

This Season

The Dalhousie University Students’ Council voted in favour of

_+Joining the National Federation

of Canadian University Students
at a special session of the Council held last Thursday night, it
was announced jointly by Ross
Hamilton, council president, and
Al Lomas, newly-appointed chairman of the Dathousie Committee
of the N. F. C. U. §., last evening.

The decision was made following the visit of Hamilton and
Lomas to Mount Allison University, November 2, to inquire into
the nature of Nifeus.

During the council session,
funds were voted to Al Lomes to
cover his expenses to the maritime regional conference held at
Mount Allison last Sunday, and
to the annual national conferénce
to be held at the UnUiversity of
Manitoba, at Winnipeg, this
Christmas. The possibility of an
additional Dathousie delegate attending the Winnipeg conference
is now under consideration.

With the announcement at Mt.
Alfison last weekend that Dalhousie, St. Francis Xavier and St.
Dunstan’s have signified their intention of joining Nifcus, the organization is now 100 percent
representative of Canadian University students.

One major point of discussion
— the proposed affiliation of the
N. F, Cc. U. S. with I. U. S. —
was deferred until a later date
until epresentatives could better
express the opinions of the students of their universities. This
mooted union with the communist-dominated International Union of Students will occupy a considerable part of the Christmas
conference.

The agenda of the Winnipeg
conference will be devoted to discussion of such subjects as, Affiliation with student groups,
‘establishment of a live Nifcus
Magazine, arrangements for a
film on student conditions, status,
@ic., by National Film Board,
transportation to Europe by American ships, group insurance, abolisking of payment of unemployment insurance by students
publicity, National student day,
national intercollegiate athletic
union, establishment of $1,000
scholarships and a long list of
other matters of importance to
students all across the Dominion.

In addition, the delegates will
discuss Student free loan funds,

yeduced railway fare and Gov
ernment asristanee to students.

   

i> ati
a | om
Piece *
1 i

     
   

-_—" ie
I 4
+ oe ff

is J at :
ay

*

Dental Society Holds Dance....
Bicuspeds

 

 

STUDENTS TO HEAR
CIVIL SERVICE MAN

 

To Conduct
Aptitude
Tests Here

Professional aptitude tests will
be available for second and third
year pre-medical and pre-dental
students, on February 2, 1948
These are not required for admission to Medicine and Dentistry
at Dalhousie, but are stiongly
recommended by the Faculties.

The test is given simultane
ously to several thousands of
students in hundreds of colleges
in the United States and Canada,
and is uniform and completely
objectiev. Answers are given by
checking ene of several possible
answers to the questions set, and
marking is reeorded by electrical
machines, which indicate the student’s comparative position im
each subject.

Tests cover Verbal Ability (Vo. >

_cabulary and Comprehension),
‘Premedical Seience and Social
Studies.

No special study is required,
and students who apply for the
tests will be given further information well in advance of the
examination. It will be appreciated if those intending to apply
will put their names immediately
on a list outside the Veteran Adviser’s Office (Room 6, Men’s
Residence).

This year’s graduate will have
an opportunity in the next few
days to hear and discuss employ
ment in the Dominion Civil Service. Representatives of the Civil
Service Commission are starting
cut this week to visit all universities and colleges across Canada,
currently poster announcements of
Civil Service examinations for administrative, professional and technical classes of positions are on
display on all public notice boards.

Undergraduates considering
plans for employment during the
summer vacation in 1948 will be
interested to learn that there are
mere than a thousand positions
open in laboratory and field work
across the country.

The Dominion Civil Service as
Canada’s greatest single employer, offers career opportunities in
a wide range of fields. As the
recruiting agency for personnel,
the Civil Service Commission is
eager to bring its message to all
university students and to secure
applications in large numbers for
the various categories of positions now open.

Civil Service Commission officials visiting universities will address graduating classes and other
student groups and will be available for individual interviews.
Further details will be announced
shortly.

S., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1947

 
 

Football

 

ENGLISH
RUGBY
DANCE

NOV. 28

 

No. 9

FENCE FOR FOOTBALL FIELD

$25,000 To Be
Spent Repairing

Field

By Jack Lusher

An estimated $25,000 wwill be spent within the next two years
in repairs to the playing surface of the Studley football field, construction of a high, strong board fence and repairs to existing seating accomodation together with the erection of additional stands
around the end of the field, according to a statement issued Tuesday
evening by Ross Hamilton, president of the Students Council.

It is understoed that the repairs to the playing surface of the
field will necessitate closing down of the field for two to three
years. Either a covering of earth and sed will be applied to the
gridiron, or a covering of earth which will be seeded. In either case
students will not be able to use the field for some time. In the
meantime, university authorities are casting about for an alternate
field which can be used for Dalhousie teams until sucn time as the
“Studley Desert’? ance more resembles a football field.

 

Big Weekend
For Tigers
In Athletics

Las weekend was a big one for
Dalhousie students — the athIdtes especially. In a weekend
that involved competition by Dal.
housie in 5 sports, the Gold and
Blaek took five victories.

At Mount Allison, the highflying mtermediate Tigers took
the measure of the Tantramar
squad 6—3 and found themselves
at the top of the heap — they
had won the Maritime Intermediate Intercollegiate Rugby Championship.

The soccer team added insult
to injury as they dowmed the
much chagrined Acadia team
2—1 at Wolfville in a soccer
contest.

The badminton team went down
to Liverpool where they kept up
the regularity with which Dak
housie has been winning athletic
events this season.

In basketball, the powerful,
smooth-as-the-silk-in-their-shorts
junior hoopsters downed the
Dartmouth Boys Club at the Y.
M. C. A. Saturday night 56—31,
while their younger cousins, the
juvenile Tigers were defeated
31—21.

To reund out the weekend, in
the only contest played on the
campus, the girls ground hockey
team got into the win column as
they defeated Edgehill.

This, it appears, had been the
greatest single weekend in the
sporting world for Dalhousie in
many, many years. It.is to be
sincerely hoped that the mniversity’s athletes will keep up the
good work. The way things look
from here, the hockey team will
be hard to beat.

The text of Mr.
statement follows:

“The condition of the field
was discussed by the council
early this fall — before classes
began. From information gathered at that time it was readily
seen that the expenses involved,
as well as the time element, was
considerable. Through the engineer in charge of the grounds, the
University knew of the condition
of the field. As the fall wore on
the field became in worse shape.
and the whole matter became
more semious in nature. The teams
felt the field dangerous, consequently we were forced to use
Wanderers field with a considerable resulting expense to the
council. I saw both Professor
Theakston and Doctor Kerr and
requested that action be taken
with a view to reconditioning
Studley field, and finding another
field for use in the meantime.

Action has been taken. We
have information regarding estis
matd cost and tim for putting
ou playing field in shape. It is
felt (despite some alumni objectjon) thap a fence around the
field is a necessity and it is recommended that this be a board
one. The field itself must be resurfaced, either with earth and
sod, or earth and new grass. This
done the field must be idle for
two to three years. New stands
are also a necessity.

The whole estimated (merely
an estimate) cost is approximately $25,000. I understand that ten
ders for the above operations
are now being solicited. As yet
another field has not been decided upon.

The field at Dalhousie is set
on rock bottom, and we have
ample evidence of that. It has
been used for atout 20 years.
This last Summer and fall were
exceptionally fry. From the field
account money was spent for

(Comtinued on Page 8)

Hamilton’

 

 
   
  
   

 
 
 
 

 

  
 
 

  

eee , 7, en}
reer vit AL LOMAS

¥ SOBERMAS ,
LIGHTER |

a se

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

att

a
ie ki

Rie Circulation Manag

- DEREK (GRIFFEN |
-D. SADOFSKY ©
_ JAN ROPERTSON
- MURIEL RITCHIE
“JERRY JOHNSON
A. de CARTERET © 
Ns by ds 1 Bi BEY) ‘HUNTINGTON ALF HARRIS
Proof Readers

_ ‘SoMERS PRIKLER
MARION GLUBE

Friday, November 21, 1947

"NEGUS. TAKE HEED

Of Dak importance to Dalhousie students this week is that
he ‘Students’ Council after careful inquiry and thorough debate,
‘ ‘hax has decided that Dal should belong to the National Federation of
Gee | Canadian University Students. Such a move should be of
yea! alue, for in supporting ‘Nifcus’ Dal becomes eligible to
the numerofus benefits outlined in the programme of the
It has been rumoured, however, that several leaders
at con. pikes! campuses have expressed the desire of affiliating with the
Nave International Union of Students, an organization with definite Com munist Menings, It may be felt that such a union would temper the
wins ideals of the I. U, S. rather than move the ideals of NFCUS’
r owards | the left. If this tempering of ideals can be accomplished by
lition | i NFCUS should, by all means, associate itself with

" f ‘ gectibe |
I eee wee
Wu vo felt ah

Wwe : :
~ ayyel ve JP), oige

.D DEST ‘STUDENT PUBLICATION
pet ey | Editor-in-Chief

- LEW MILLER
Lents Business Manager
Pes I i hi Pi ee Pe UN ye
co v. ms Editor Abi: ” Ploratse" , te

i

1
iY i

Whoa Ei
ig

ART MOREIRA
‘ me CLAIR KNIGHT _
ise tien JOHN TRIM
/ KARL WEBBER ©

Ass’t Business Mer.
»-ROBIN. MacLEAN

»Aagociate Editors Gn

STAN FITZNER
ERIC RICHTER

f ants i
»

s or
La

i?

Ay Copy Editor ....
BILL "ADAMSON

Exchange Manager

PETER SEDERIS

inestimable
partake of
federation.

of NFCUS

CUS | may be dominated by Communists the suggestion should be
un loned immediately. It should be remembered that Comndunist
de rs seem to possess more vigor in infiltrating into such organ
oo! ‘A rs. than ‘right-wing organization leaders have in stopping them.

  
  
 
   
  
 
    
  
  
  
       
    

, U..S.?

J rh

a it be with I. U. S.

 

 

i oN ue ; Aine |
as “MAILBOX

 

i. Wy 1 feel that I must come to the
ry | defence ‘of the Nov. 7 issue of
| “it ‘the Gazette. I sympathize with
Mr. McCurdy and agree that the
“grim words, War Inevitable” are
Pa ise neerting: — yes, disconcerting, but under present world conie fe ditions, true. He states that in
Hy a agreement with Dr. Wilson
: )heae ey has “many supporters,” but L

   
 
   
   
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
    
  
  
   
     
  
   
 
    

TA tie ers” is Sn a veriterion of
the truth. !

ii . system is that we neglect.

Vi

si “a coulin what we hi

Q ' +
td mee ye warlike enemies, Altho ugh,
un repar pared, the democracies have

Le. i Paap ’ “A
Gh Be out nt

ay a

_ | do not think that “many support
One of the fists of our eas |

ear provide a military arm of

OW
aD ete om Fe caaleacans in ‘ey |
conor to, ey ree twice, f

vanted War a

owed us so. Stal- — baste +

i Somme ey “your neighbor,” it would be im
ai ‘The question arises, furthermore. whether NFCUS wishes to

Bf national federation. might be defeated by the altruistic motives of
a few of its leaders. NFCUS is the only organization of its kind in
Canada and a union with . an international body would necessarily
» detract in some way from the avowed purpose of its national am_ Bitions. ‘Why, then, has it even been considered to affiliate with
— And, if affiliation is necessary, why not with I. S. S., an
WNolnntonal organization that is well established in Canada? — Why

These are but a few considerations that must be dealt with by
four NFCUS lea‘bers before a decision is reached. Let us hope
ae they will not be influenced by the eloquent ardor of supporters

vate uy a kA {
Ci ee seco tna ri It is their duty to take heed.

 

itary group, no one wants war,
especially those people who are
our leaders, but we must face
the facts.

My personal opinion is that
“We Killed a Child” is not a
“weak effort” but one of the
better things to appear in the
Gazette this year. It is strange
that Mr. McCurdy tok the trouble
to investigate whether the name
of the author was on the Dalhousie rolls, if he had gone to the
Gazette office (as I did), he
would have been informed quite

readily wha the author was. That

the use of the nom de plume, in
this ease, was legitimate, seems
quite obvious.

I agree with Dr. Wilson’ when

he says that, under present -conditions, war is inevitable but disagree that there is no way, in
this world, that war could be

avoided. Dr. Wilson said the on
_ Way (o avoid war is to bring a
bout a change in human nature.

{ think that the only way that

war could be avoided would be

the universal adoption of the only

true philosophy — the philosophy

Ty ee Chitistiatit y. If everyone were
to become a true and prac‘ising

‘Ohristian: and observed
enéts ‘

its two
‘Love God and “‘Love

  
 
  
   
   
 
 

“Unconfirmed . reports. from
Lower Studdly indicate that the
Gazette staff have been thrown
out...” - URP Dispatch

The staff of the newspaper
known as the Gazette were @
jected from their office this

morning after a trial in which
they were_ found guilty of all

sorts of things. In a brief cere- }
mony President Porkington strip- |

ped them of their typewriters and
copy paper, and they were ignominiously kicked off the premises of the Arts Bldg., where they

formerly hung out (or in)- Prin
cipal among the offenders. was
one McClod, who was accused of
insulting the dignity of the Coun
. cil and of Porkington in partic
ular. He was convicted of writing
an insipid column wich not nearly
enough slamming at people in it.
Both sides were satisfied. A villain named Bull was convicted
on three counts: first, that he had
feloniously written a’ Dirt Col
.umn, and that-the law forbade

such dirt column. Secondly, (to
satisfy the Hall girls), that he
hadn’t put nearly enough dirt in
it. Thirdly, who did he think he
was anyway?
Next offender was Lushwell;
he hadn’t done anything really,
as Porkington put it, but he
might as well catch hell with the
rest, as Porkington put it. Porkington put all sorts of things.
Anyway, Lushwell was impeached
by the Glum Club and kicked out.
Editor Millright was also kicked out.

Tine Gazette, as Porkington
put it, will now become an organ
of the advertising syndicates,

with little or no politics in it.

Chief among its new features will

-be, for the benefit of the Glum

Club, no more reviews. Once again the Glee Club ean produce
insidious Dreams of Love without let or hindrance.

Angry students pursued a dim
charadiey. in. the distance with
eries of ‘“‘Kill Hardrok!’’ Hard
rok has not been seen since.
Other members of the staff who
escaped were the sports editors,
who left on the early train out.

By his defence editor Millright
pleaded that there was no harm
in his editorials since they said
nothing anyway. This was trod on
by Prosecutor Sawbuck who said
that was what was the matter;
the editor then pointed triumphantly to six editorials which
did say something. But the prosecuto; only said that these also
came under the heading that’s
what’s the matter,

The editor said that the Gazette couldn’t please everyone at
once and received the answer:
“Why not?” The editor replied
that if there was a dirt column
and the SPCA wanted it taken
out what could he do? “Take it
out.’’ But if the Hall girls wanted it in. “Leave it in.” How
could one do both.‘ Anyway you
kike.”’ sf

“Some days,” said the Features
Editor sadly, “you can’t make a
nickel.” And so the Gazette was
thrown out, and the new Advertiser should emerge with the

spring catalogues, bearing no pol
ities, no. dir,
nothing.

no
Amen.

reviews, no

 

possible for the clash of
ests to lead to a bloody,
war. Christianity,
enly answer and the
Sincerely,
| T. B. O'Neill

* * + Eo *

interfighting
now, is the
only refuge.

The. Heitor,
fe Sir,
yJe “<3 3 ay ‘oO 4 > r
Hering read a copy of your
Student Paper “The Dalhous.e
(Contmued on cage

 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
    
   

Inclusive Fees

FADE

Robert E. H

PHARMACY
LIMITED
Studley Drug Store
29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store
| 141 Hollis St.

 

R’S

EVANGELINE |
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
3 HALIFAX, N. S.

 
  
   
  
  

 

“THE MARITIME LIKE:

a TWO REASONS ... :

me You purchase Life Insurance
. for Two Reasons ~

(1) If you die too soon it provides income
: for your family.

© (2) If you live too long it provides you
with a salary for the balance of

your life.

A. R. FRASER, C. L. U.
Manager Nova Scotia Branch
Lantern, Building, Halifax, N. S.

Green
art Telephone 83-8745

wrens

 

& Suarr-Look SMART

BRYLCREEM

 
 
 
 
 
  

 

Willis

ee

A Complete Record Service
BOOGIE-WOOGIE to TCHAIKOVSKY

127 Granville St.

——_——————

 

 

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

  
  
   
      

(4 Listening Booths)

at
Piano Co. Limited
(at Duke), |
HALIFAX, N: S.

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL

COKE *

FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

, HALIFAX,

NN: S- DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nowa Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes

“

Degrees of:

The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

 

Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineerin
Bachelor of Science Edbestua
Bachelor of Commerce Music
eG of Music Pharmacy
aster of Arts Hospital rma
Master of Science s bia bed

Mining Geolo
Pre-Professional Courses ik

 

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

m
in

the B. Se. course about $21.00 a year
the B. A, Course average about $160.00 a year

Many yo:uable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held ia
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History

The Professional Faculties

Fa Rg RE REET AY oo whe Fy
Law, Medicine. Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Residences

Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’ 4

Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for
ape oh iversity Mens Residence.

‘ Fey r oe

first year men
Other men students live in either

“one ov in selected and approved homes.

1 oon

SFROCT!

yectal avepsem anion is provided for married and single ex-service

students,

Meals for all students are available at the University.

For full informatior ¥rite fe Hag REGISTRAR.

 

 _

    
 

ae

  
  
   
   
  

_ selle Joly,
Paris), who is lecturer in the

 

 Gkzerte

mM On eee aa tT Nye Mina yr ee =
ty 4

a

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

HALIFAX, N. &., FRIDAY, NO\

28, 1947

y eee
yr aM BI Ys

y i
fi ni eM

 

 

) Mile. Joly To

 

AtSCM

The final Open House of
the S. C. M. will be held Sunday
evening, Nov. 30, at 8.45, in the
Common Room of the Men’s Residence.

The speaker will be Madamoi(Agregee d’Anglais,

 

 

Modern Languages Department.

Mile. Joly will take as her topic
“Student Life in France, 193945,” discussing the effects on student life in the Universities of
the German occupation. She is
well qualified to present the subject, for she spent the entire
period of the war in Paris. In
1945 Mile. Joly lectured in England for the Ministry of Information, and last year was a stu
dent at Columbia University in

New York.

This gathering is one of great
interest to Canadian students,
and— all are invited to take ad
nol vantage of ‘his opportunity to

learn more » ‘about student life in
France,

King s Hold

 

4 Royal Wedding

Colebiston

The second formal of the term
was held at King’s Uniersity
Thursday, November 20, in celebration of the Royal Wedding.
The dance was sponsored by the
King’s Student Council, and proved a great success,

Decorations included flags
draped throughtout the halls and
dancing area with “‘E”’ and “P”’
in gold lettering predominant.
Shields bearing the Union Jack
were placed in the windows.

 

RADIO MEETING

There will be a meeting of ail
those interested in radio work
in the Reception Room of Shireff
Hall this Saturday, Nov. 29 at
3 p. m. It is hoped that everyone
with any ideas on the subject will
show up and it is especially emphasized that previous experience
is not necessary.

PAYZANT, L.R.S. M., AND

 

A group of participants

 

of the D. G. D. S, Shakespearian pro
duction “‘As You Like It” are shown in the above picture. Included
are Bernie Creighton, Patty MacKinnon, Lorna Innis, Gerry MacKay,
Howard Norman, Sherberne McCurdy, Edith Hills and Olin Gardner.
A review of the play appears on page six of this issue. ......... see seen

 

Dal King’s Debaters
Lose M.1.D.L. Openers

Teams representing Studley

_ campus lost out in two M. I. D.

L. debating contests last Monday.
King’s lost the first of the season’s debates at Mt. Allison, while
Dal debaters lost a decision to
St. Mary’s College.

The subject of the Dal—St.
Mary’s contest, ‘“‘Resolved, that
the Canadian Government should
adopt a system of compulsory mil_
itary training,’ was-upheld by
the Dal team of Bob Kaille and
Maleolm Graham. Representing

St. Mary’s were Terry O’Toole

and Robert McNeil fighting for
the negative.

At Mt. A., the King’s team of
Gordie Coles and Otto McInnis
received many apologies as the
debate terminated with an unpopular decision by the judges.
The subject was ‘Resolved, that
it would be in the best interests
of Newfoundland to join the Canadian Confederqtion.” The Mt.
A. team of Bob Miller and Tom
Wiggins took the affirmative.

Several changes made in Maritime Intdrcollegiate Debating
League rules were introduced at

 

Hall Meals To Remain Standard Size,

botn debates. One of the major
differences is.that all speakers

are how required to give five

minute rebuttals as well as their
fifteen minute speeches.

A change has also been inaugerated in the system of jud
PADMORE PREPARE PINAFORE

 

 

COMIC OPERA OPENS
LATE IN FEBRUARY

 

To Discuss
National
Planning

The topic for discussion at next
week’s Citidens’ Forum at ‘the
Murray Homestead will be “Is
National Planning a Threat to a

‘Democracy?’ A timely topic and

one in which all thinking citizens
will be interested. Come and take
part in the discussion and enjoy
the additional attractions of a
film and tea. The program starts
with a film at 8.30. Everbody
welcome.

 

yement, making it necessary for

the judges to submit their reas- |

ons for decision. This, . however,
was not done’ by the judges of,
‘the Mt. A.-King’s contest,, and

apologies were extended the vis-.

iting King’s team -by many, , including their opponents and the
university president, who themselves realized ‘that the King’s
team have received the
decision on al! points. .

snould

 

. And Only Two Weeks To Go.

 

Losses in. Weight Counterbalanced by Gains :

A survey taken up in,the “Hall”
last Saturday by Gazette researcher Patsy Pigot revealed

- that the girls are given the worst

meals’ possible. Most of them are.
-able to.grin and bear it, but

others have. only enough strength —
to hang on to their stomach in,

deepest agony. This is‘a bit exaggerated, but speaking from
personal experience, I have never
eaten such a meal in my life, and

I hope I never have to again. We 
served ourselves (Saturday night
its cafeteria style so I was in
_ formed) lamb — mine was near-.
) ly all \ gistle - — cold patie and

a half grapefruit, prepared with honey the night before, if then,
and two wild excuses for. oatmeal.
‘ ¢ookies, which must have’ been:. et

‘picked up on the Studley Desert.
' On enquiring whether I had
struck a bad night — which is
bound to occur in the best of

places — I was informed by some
that’ it was the worst yet, and by
others that it was the best, they
had had in a long time. Maybe
it was, maybe it wasn’t, but yours
truly is not going to stick around
egain to find out, especially when
‘Tread a notice on the board that
due to circumstances beyond any
one’s control, the meals were not

going to Rene or increase in

size,

~ Hasiér: on aN smeals was Jean
Bailly: “They are not too bad
considering it is an institution.
I: have put on six pounds since
1 came here, so I guess I get enough, but how I miss Mother’s
steaks and pies!’ Verna Leonard

put in “they smell on Mondays”

and Fridays,’ on ‘the other days we
survive — somehow.” Budge Archibald thought that the meals
were alright — “I get enough,
I’m on a diet.”

On leaving the “Hall” I was
told “you get used to it,”

 

 

aca Bt
I /
peal a ae)

Residence

Dance Held

An informal dance for students
living in ‘the Dalhousie Men’s
Residence was held ‘in the Com
‘mon Room last Friday night with

a large erowd in attendance.
Music was provided-by the Denny
Burchell band.

It, is hoped: that these dances
for resident students and their

‘friends will be held often in.the

future. The present plans of the
residence entertainment commit
' ‘tee’ include a number: of these ,

dances before the 1948 closing.

In charge of the function were
Mort Givn, Doug Willie, Fred
Campbell, Rod Sutherland, Sed
ley Barss, George Eddy and Dee

Shaw.

 

The spotlight turned on, a
hush fell over the audience and
then he appeared. “He” was the
conductor. With a stately,
measured pace he walked across
in front of the orchestra, stepped gacefully onto the podium
and raised his baton for silence.
Slowly he lifted his arms,
then, as he brought them down
with a violent, brusque motion,
the music began. It
clanged,
in ear-splitting crescendo.

The spotlight was strange, however. It appeared to light up the
whole hall. The podium, too, was
tnnatual in appearance. The conductor was dressed in shirtsleeves,,
and the ochestra were dressed in
miscellaneous clothing. The audience consisted of but one person.

Was it Spike Jones and his
City Slickers?° Was it the Royal
Opera Company of Lower Slopoverya? Were they playing in
Carnegie Hall, perchance, or in
the Royal Opera House in Ghent?

No, friend, none of these things
are true.

The hall was the new classroom
in the basement of the Arts
building. The spotlight was merely the regular lighting afforded
to half-blind students. The podium was a straight-backed chair,
and the conductor was not Sir
Thomas Beecham, but rather
Maestro Frank Padmore. The Orchestra was the Dalhousie Concert Orchestra. They were preparing for next sping’s pesentation of Gilbert and Sullivan —
H. M. 8. Pinafore — an ambitious
project.

i‘he trail that leads to the

pre. cntaiion oi such a_ performa.te as no. wi. §, Pinafore is
a tucky and rugged one. There

are 10 shor.cucs to perfection —
only hard work and plenty of
hard work will guarantee an adequate performance.

No one is more aware of this:
than the maestro himself, rotund
Mr. Padmore. Foy some weeks
now he and the musicians who
form the Dalhousie Concert> Orchestra have been hard at wor<,
ironing out rough spots, touching

up the highlights, working out.
difficulties and in general paving

the way for what is hoped will be.

‘one of the ‘finest performanc:s.
turned out at this university.

wwe

In years past the orchestra has
been held down to a minor role

in Dalhousie’ productions, but: this

year Mr. Padmore’s orchestra and
Geoffrey Payzant’s chorus wilh
combine to establish a new spot
in the sun for their respective:
organizations, .Last year they produced Trial by Jury — a howling
success, and this year they are
intending. to reach heights far
transcending last year’s brilliant
performance., They’ll bear watching, and when next spring rolis
around all eyes will be on the

trusty little ship, H. M. S. Pin.
afore.

and,

swelled,.
shattered the night air

>

i
ng

6 ee

ors

i

4
|

 
BY BOB TUCK

r

ENGLISH RUGGER TIGERS
GREATEST DAL TEAM
IN YEARS

Jimmie Mahon,

Pr escalate trae nent on 2 § aed smear eet earl roles) —eaee anand ata ars
. 5 i 5 if a "

i. ue 7 vy
. J = ous 7
oat > : oP L i S.
ie ee ME De
‘ ar haa
iis & * << e
" J

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

i.
.

na dt.

mes .3
ww x
hee
. 4

‘

JIM MAHON SENSATIONAL

Tigers Roll To Easy Win Over

Paced by the sharpshooting of
the Dal junior
cage team rolled to its second
easy triumph in the Halifax Junior League at the “” last Saturday night. Mahon bagged 27
points in the Tiger's 56—31 triumph over the Dartmouth Boy’s
Club, and played all but the last
5 minutes of the contest.

Tha game started off very
evenly, with Dartmouth holding
a 138 — 10 advantage after 12
minutes of play. But then Dal,

Friday, November 28, 1947

DBC

SOCCER SQUAD DUMPS
ACADIA IN FINAL GAME

Dalhousie paid it’ final visit
of the cutrent football season

to Acadia last Saturday, when

the Gold and Black soccer team
took the valley footballers over
the hurdles for a 2-1 victory.

at left inside had evened the
score with a front on shot from
twenty feet out. .

In the second half the play
was even though Acadia had the
better scoring opportunities.
However, the stellar work of
goalie Richard Bierhoff, and a

Played before a rabid crowd
of two hundred Acadians the
game set a fast pace from the
whistle, and the rough play had
the onlookers blood running fast.
The Tigers scored just a half
minute the first whistle
when Hennessy picked up a pass
at the goal mouth and snapped
home a cross shot. The Axemen
however, and
over Gates

having become accustomed to the
small court, turned on the heat,
and poured in 14 points while
holding the opponents to 2. This
surge gave the Tigers a 24—15
half time advantage, and practically sewed up the game for the
Gold and Black.

Dal’s lead Soared to twenty
points in the early minutes of the
second half on the strength of
an 11 point string that opened
the second period. From there,
it was just a question of how big
Dal’s final edge would be, as
Mahon and Mason MacDonald
continued to spark the victors
with consistent markers. Mahon
hit from all angles of the court,
including two beautiful one-hand
pivot shots from far out.

The Dartmouth club, with’ the

Se ee) After last Saturday's game at Mt, A. there can no longer be

any doubt concerning the Dal English Rugby team. They are one

_ ef the greatest teams: that have sported Dalhousie colours in recent

years. Being an Intermediate team has nothing to do with the way

. fi oe which. we should assess their spirit and acclaim their perform__ anees, ~They have not only won championships, but they are real
__ ghampions. Never did they conduct themselves otherwise; for this
aay “reason alone Dalhousie should be proud of them. They are a eredit

in i | to English Rugby and to the University .They are the team of the

beautiful exhibition of heading
and kicking by Dennis St. Helene
and Herb Rosenfeld kept the
seore tied.

Bob McCulloch put the game
on ice for the Tigers when he
slapped in a high corner shot
after a drawn out Dal offensive.
Next year the soecer team plans
to enter the Maritime IntercollegLeague.

after

came

before

back,

half

rig ny

; the iate Scecer

* 4% +: * * Was

ere tk, lesser team would have been defeated by the elements alone
As it was they were up against a very fine team that
scored on all seasons long and which had a very fine

away from home, and under

|

ae Ys ee v ois: Saturday.
at hy vl Abe es ,
ex} , 7

Badminton
Team In Win

The Dal badminton team paid
a visit to Liverpool last Saturday
at a tournament and defeated
the Merseymen 8—6 in sets. The
players left Halifax by car and

had not been
-‘spiritt itself. In addition Dal was playing
J entirely unusual conditions. The Mount Allison campus presented a
a a Lower Slobbovian appearence under its two inches of snow, and the
; ; weather was more suited to a ski-meet than a football game. The
t a going was slow, the football was heavy and wet, and the game was

as tight as any game could possibly be. So the strain was tremendgus: To add to it all, Mt. A. jenjoyed a distinct territorial edge most

mys
a
en
ey

y Fd
C, A .
F Pins 4

a

f

ee
= ¢

“a | ,
“5
é '?

rv
"4

al

.
Pa
|=

won tthe hard way, and their performance stamped
_ team in the process. P

of the time,
had the Tigers hemmed in. Moreover,
ee Quigley scored his try with less than four minutes
fifteen minutes after the
most of those
“ come-back like

maintained a
- their line for
were very tired,
ing the offensive.

mot all
_ every player subjugated any

pow Bev.

eM ‘Dal Physical Director, and Berya as aa Sawyer goes through, The

and threatened to score for minutes in a row as they
Dal had to come from behind.
left, and about
Mounties had opened the scoring. During
fifteen minutes Mt. A. controlled the play. Making. a
that demonstrates a pretty solid team ‘spirit.

* ¢ & * te

During the first overtime period the home standing Allisonians
tremendous offensive that kept Dal right up against
almost ten minates. And yet they held on. Both teams
but the strain was on Dal because Mt. A. was carryAnd then Gordie Hart went over in the second

overtime session to win the game and the Championship. Dal had
them a great

em ae gee ae
In paying trihute to the team, there is one figure who must
not be forgotten. It was Bev. Piers who made the team a championship outfit. He built a team that was solid from bed-rock up,
and helped to form a team spirit that reflected itself, mot only in
the way they played, but in the way they could be relied upon to

come through in the pinches. He built a strong team out of what was

-star material. Unlike most Dal teams of the past few years,
credit or glory he might grab for himself to the greater interest of the team. They had almost insurmount
able obstacles to hurdle before they could even field a team. And

Piers and his boys have three Championships, and have
they can. If English Rugby is to go, it could not have

gone as far as
; greater blaze of glory, or in better hands.

gone out in a
* # # tt £ 4:
jm

One more note about the game at Sackville Saturday. On behalf
of the team and their small but voluble number of supporters who
made the trip, we should like to thank Mount Allison for the fine

hospitality (and patience, in certain cases) which they extended to

ws. They couldn’t very well help the weather, and truth to tell, we

Southerner sweren’t too much fazed by it, Suh!

‘HERE AND THERE ; Following the Dal — M:. A. game,
which was played at 10.00 A. M., Mt. A. Varsity met Glace Bay
for the McCurdy Cup and the Maritime Rugger Championship. [t
‘was easily one of the worst games we have ever witnessed. Ragged,
dirty, and disorganized, the contest was probably the worst playoff
the historic trophy has ever known. Glace Bay set the tone of the
game when they appeared in as many uniforms as there were players.
To add to it all, Mount Allison’s fine football outfit were playing
‘beneath themselves, and thus displayed a disappointing brand of
Tugdy......... Jimmy Gray, hockey and baseball star, is to coach Dal’s
hockey Tigers. With newcomers like goalie Gil Jordan (Mt. A. and
McGill) and Rosie MacMillan (St. John Beavers) together wich last
year’s leftovers, Dal will have a strong team. Unfortunately Jimmy
can’t play himself.......... Western’s Mustangs placed 10 men out of

a possible 12 on the All-Star team

Curlers To Have Big
Season—Play Thursdays

; Halifax Curling club has been
Curling enthusiasts will have a negotiated for on Thursdays,
chance to break out their brooms from the hours of noon till five.
for Dalhousie if a plan being or- The officials say there is room
“ganized by John MacCormarx. for a few mere in the club, and
emphasize the fact that previous
experience is not necessary.

<

exception of Ken MacKenzie who

’ bagged 15, points, could not find
the range with any consistency, ,

and trid to make up what- they
lacked in skill by fight. This
caused them to commit an exceptional number of. fouls, and two
of their players fouled out in the
second half.

Mahon was definitely the star
of the contest, a fast moving, but
somewhat ragged affair. MacDonald and Herb Rosenfeld ,who
played a hustling floor game, also
showed well for the Tigers. McKenzie and Patterson were the
pick of th elosers.

Dalhousie — Mahon 27, MacDonald 12, Rosenfeld 8, McConnell 4, Beckett 2, Wilson 2, Marshall 1.

Dartmouth — McKenzie 15,
Hare 5, Bowes 4, Conrad 4, Patterson 2, Mintern 1, White.

* = > * oe
TIGERS LOOK RAGGED

Breaking the game wide open

with a ten point scoring spree
early in the first period, the QE
HS -:juvenile basketball team
trimmed Dal Tigers, 31-21
in the opening game of the City
Juvenile league played at the “Y”’
gym last Saturday night. The
game was a wild, ragged affair,
with both teams, especially Dal
showing definite lack of practise
time. The game resolved itself
into one of run and shoot with
little pattern passing.
Dalhousie: Morrison 8, Boniuk 2,
Wolfson 3, McKay 3, Wolman 3,
Waller 2, Goldman.
QEH. Hills 15, Ells 6, Robinson
4, Cooper 4, Martin 2, Dingle,
Morrison, Woodworth, Gerhardt,
Houghan.

‘sy
tne

Dal Students — °

A welcome awaits you at
456 Barrington Street,

Where you will find A

complete Musie Service

:

and the finest

Sports Equipment.
/

returned late Saturday night. Anothr trip is slated for Truro this
Saturday. The team is being selected by Noel Hamilton.

an err
A BIG VALUE

IN
GOOD READING!
Spirited reporting, exciting
features — done without sensationalism — makes The Halifax Herald and The Halifax
Mail companionable papers.
Their complete, reliable news
coverage helps all to a better
understanding of the world in
which they live.
Read

THE HALIFAX HERALD
and

THE HALIFAX MAIL
Two of Canada’s Greatest
Newspapers

Pye

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

CHOOSE YOUR NEW FELT HAT

. AT EATON’S!

Our Men’s Wear Department on the Main Floor
offers a selection of hats for you to choose from —
including Homburg styles, semi-Homburgs and
snap brim models. In good quality fur felt and
shades of browns, greys and blues. Sizes 6% to 7%

in, the range.

we

| ea

 

: ‘
| : ‘ i ru i . ad '
inom ; » 5 iu B | on.” eae a
‘it ; pi aR a A
a: : My aS aT. ¥, |
a =
   

 

DGAG

Congratulations Freshettes,

| this year’s interclass basketball

champs. The girls won three out
of siz games. Manager Jan Canieron and team mates Marg Eustace, Barb Quigley, Lucy Galp,
Anne DeCarteret, and Jean MeLeod are the winning team.

Congratulations to the ground
hockey team who finished in seccnd place in the league and lost
only one game.

Infercollegiate basketball tryouts have been held and Dal will
have a snappy team to meet Acadia_ in February. The team is
hoping for new uniforms.

Swimming and badminton
teams wil form early in January.
The DGAC also extends thanks
to Dipe Marshall, Marg Eustace
and Barb Lohnes for their assistance to Mrs. D. McKeigan, the
physical directress

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTI.
SERS — THEY HELP TO MAKE

THIS PAPER POSSIBLE

The best indoor and outdoo

sporting equipment

is feund at

THE SPORTS
LODGE

"6 GRANVILLE’ sT.

“Play More — Live Longer’”

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
  
   

Dal Ruggers Meve Last Minute Comeback
To Defeat Mt. A. Intermediates

 

Shown above are the Dalhousie Tigers,
Reading from left to right, seated; Bev. Piers
Willie Robertson, Foo Grant, Don Macintosh, Rus;
Standing; Al Q’Brien (equipmen),
Reg MacCullough, Vince Morrisson, Don MacKeigan,

Maritime
(c»ach),

Bliss Leslie,

An inspired band of Dalhousie Tigers battled their way to the
Maritime Intermediate Rugby Championship at Sackville Saturday
as they overcame Mt, A- in one of the tensest games seen here in
many years. The game was played in several inches of snow and
in the glare of a strong sun which made accurate kicking difficuls.
Nevertheless the contest was fairly fast and well played, The teams
were tied at the end of regulation time, and th unprecedented nec
cessity of over time was requird to

detrmine a winner. Mount AHisoa

enjoyed a territorial edge on the play throughout most of the game,
but the Dal scrum an@ three-quarter line wore generally more effective. The best ball handling for Mt. A. was done by fullback Wes
Robinson, who wae ever dangerous when an opportunity to seize a

break presented itself.
Dal started off with a drive

inte the Mounties’ snow-covered

end of the field, but*skillful dribbling pushed the Dal offensive back
to the point where it became a defensive. Mt, A. pressed, and Wes
Robinson nearly booted a tough penalty placement over the Dal
bar. Dal came back, but once more brilliant dribbling nearly paid
off for Mt. A. and only Rosie MacMillan saved a score when he
retrieved the ball. He was to do this several times during the morn
ing as he played his position flawlessly.

yy

Lay that Crossbow down!

We realize it’s still pretty difficult to walk into
your Arrow dealer and find a stack of Arrow shirts
in your favourite collar styles — but they will be

Arrow dealers are doing their level best ia a

tough situation. So don’t huat them up with
cross bow or luger.

ARROW SHIRTS

TIES AND HANDKERCHIEFS

 

/@

Mount Allison at this point
was running and passing well,
and only accurate tackling prevented the homsters from scoring. Towards the end of the half
Dal came back and pressed Mt.
A. closely. MacMillan
penalty kick from a_ difficult
angle. During the half the Dal
Scrum held a 9—5 edge.

Play see-sawed as the game
progressed into the second half,
but a brilliant run by Ray Stevens gained Mt. A. 45 yards. Only
Rosie MacMillan stood between
him and the Dal line, but Rosie,

FIRST TIME IN SNOW

Last Saturday was the first
time that Don Harrison of the
Dalhousie Champion English
Rugby Tigers ever saw snow.
What’s more, he was required
to play in it! The Mount Al.
lison playing Field was two
inches deep in the white stuff
over the week-end, but Doa
didm’t It it bethr him at all.
He went out and played one
of hie finest games of the season.

missed a2

with help fom speedy Foo Grant
stopped him with less than a foot
to go. Mount Allison continued
to press; their scrum heeled the
ball, and the backfield twisted
and dodged. Finally MacLellan
scored on a pass from Henderson
and Mt. A, 3—0. As the tension
mounted, the Mounties continued
to threaten. With time running
short Dal finally broke out of
their own end. A series of heady
plays put Dal o nthe Mt. A. 25
yard line, where the Tigers got
a penalty kick. Playing for all
(Continued on Page 8)

Intercollegiate Intermediate
Rosie MacMillan,
MacEwan, Don Harrison, Zen Graves (manager).
Gord Quigley, Bill Ogilvie, Boyd Crouse, Gordie Hart,
Paul Palmer, MacLeod (assistant manager).

Rugby Champions.

Cyril Morgan, Don Kerr,

Page Five ~

WN IN THRILLER AT Mt.A

 

Co—eds Down
Edgehill

The final match of the season
in ground hockey for the Dal
girls was played on Saturday,
when they again won over Edge
hill team, this time with the
score of 3—1. This game terminates an active season in ground
hockey from which the Dal team
has emerged with the fine record
of only one game lost.

Edgehill was the first to score,
shooting their one and only goal
half way through the first period.
Soon after, Pat Snuggs seored for
Dal. Half time, which divided the
two twenty minute periods, found
the score 1—1. Shortly after the

 

second period began, Yvonne LeBroce scored for Dal, and about
five minutes before the end of
the game, Giwen Lugar scored
for the Yellow and Black. The

game was well played and showed
the results of Dal’s practice and
effort throughout the fall term
— a good ending to a good season.

Bev. Huntington

 

 

Campus |
Roundu Pp

JOE LEVISON

 

Acadia, Nov. 22 — DDT— (Dalhousie Delayed in Transit)
Press. Dalhousie made it a clean sweep over the local fallen apples
this season when their soccer team conjured a 2—1 victory in the
final football expedition of the season to-day.

The soccerites arrived on th eAcadia campus at 12:45,

and

brunched m the commidious meses hall. This hall is one Acadian feat
are we like. Boys and girls, five of cach sit at

a table. The beauty

of this is that there is no point in the sexes getting together and
gloating over the food received by the other half. It is all disappointing. After the meal was over ravenous Acadians made their was
to the soccer pitch, hoping to pick up a stray Dal leg for midnite
snacks in residence, but to no avail.

Meanwhile other Dalhousie
teams made it a pleasant weekend for the Gold and Black. At
Mt. Allison the Intermediate ruggers won the Maritime title by
mushing to a 6—3 win. (re Tuck)
At Liverpool, Noel
day, banging around the shuttlecharges had a very successful
for a VaSlary at the LiverIn Halifax the Juv enile aid Junior

Hamilton’s

cock.

basketball teams split their games,
the junior winning and juveniles
losing in the Halifax Minor Basketball Association. At Studley
the ground hockeyists, once again playing the girls, sans puddles, took the measure of Edgehill, 3—1. Apparently if winning
teams are indication of renewed
Dalhousie spirit the Tigers are on
the right road.

The hockeyists will have held
their second practice by the time
this column reaches you, and the
railbirds are hatching great hopes
for the coming season. With us
are the men MacMillan and O’Neill, puck stopper Gwyn Timothy, Graves, Churchill-Smith and
countless Black Horses.

Ten of John Metras’s Western
Mustangs are on the first team
selected by the Canadian press,
for allstar intercollegiate honors.

We read in the Maniebar that
the Newman Club of that university is now putting on “Dear
Ruth” in the Shea Hall of St.
Paul’s college. This is the play
that the Dal D. G. D. S. hopes to
pesent fo their final offering in
the spring.

 

Presenting ...

 

PAT MacKEIGAN

She’s small, she’s dark, she’s
bubbling over with personality—
she was Pat Flynn — now she is
Mrs, D. S. MacKeigan, our Co-ed
Physical Director. A Haligonian
by birth, she attended Halifax
Academy: In 1945 she graduated
from U of T with her Bachelor
of Physical Education. For two
years she was Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education for
Nova Scotia. Dalhousie Summer
Students have known her as Physical Director for the past three
years. Last year she coached the
Dal Girl’s Basketball teams.

Now Mrs. MacKeigan is in full
comrol of Co-ed sports at Dalhousie, and everyone feels fortunate in -having such a competent Physical Director of Girl’s
sports.

 

 
   
  
  
 

ws

pa
iy

  

f°. SGLEE CLUBS) ,
“AS YOU LIKE IT

| "The Glee Club’s two-act version of “AS YOU LIKE IT” was
Teh considerably better tham many of us expected beforehand, Apart
- from the fact that Mr. Pigot- can do amazing things with a poor
play, it was quite as well done as those of previdus years, although
jo ferior to the other plays............00 ..-
 

4 ‘ K ... The cut version, however, neither simplified the plot nor pre¥ rs sented the complete impression that the original produces. The comic

was exploited at the expense of the romantic and pastoral aspects
of ‘the whole play, and important parts were badly cut.

aa | Touchstone is one of the most attractive roles in the play,
re and was the least cut in the version presented. The combinations
| j of Touchstone and Audrey, Corin and William were the most effective in the performance, Mr. Creighton was almost the whole show
‘on all three nights; the combination of clown, city slicker and amateur philosopher was far and away the most popular character on
the stage, and his antics bolstered some of the play’s weaker sections.
Splendidly backed by the lesser members of the cast, Mr. Creighton
‘served to throw the emphasis of the play upon the comic.

SOAP Pee e Ferree

The most difficult part was that of Orlndo; Mr. MacKay did
amazingly well with what he had, but the part itself must remain in
| the position of a prop for Rosalind. Mr. MacKay managed not only
mf to present a conventional nice young man, but also infused into the
e | part a naturalness and a sense of humour which added to it in no
small way. He avoided the vague mouthings which roles of a simpe ilar nature usually produce, and his lines sounded quite sensible and
natural, which is by no means easy.

 

have been clearer at times, and she might have looked a little less
feminine while dressed in men’s clothes, but these are smal] defects
“when compared with the rest of her performance. She presented all
the warmth and. humour which the part requires, and was not at all
wwkward or unnatural. The part is one of the play’s prettiest and
Rosalind is one of Shakespeare’s most charming heroes, and Miss
Innes did full justice to the role. >" sige’

" . | Miss Innes was a very capable Rosalind; her enunciation could

| The version. used almost ruined the part of Jacques; one or two

showy speeches were left, but they sounded rather out of place and
as though coming from a mere courtier among many. It may be said
ge ae that Mr. Harris was not as effective as he usually is, and this is
largely due to the fact that the part might as well have been taken

 

 

be out altogether, so little remained. Cuts in Act IJ particularly deleted
ee both speeches and references to Jacques, and when he appeared later
arc on the key to his character was lost, and his speeches then hardly
me) meant anything. (By “Act II”? we refer to the original.) In the
en middle of a rather quiet gathering in the forest, after a song or
| two, Jacques suddenly breaks out with “‘A fool, a fool!...” where
t - it means little in the arrangement of the wording. Jacques should
7. have entered after a discussion of him by other members of the
| cast, laughing, and telling of the fool. In the situation adopted his
lines were more than somewhat out of place. Other cuts made him
simply another courtier, which is unfortunate. In the words of an
eminent critic, we longed for a wolf in an otherwise impeccable
sheepfold.

Mr. Harris did what he could with the part; he delivered the
| . “All the world’s a stage” very effectively, in spite of the fact that
| the apparet-insignificance of Jacques made i+ a little grandiloquent;
his bearing and delivery set him above the other members of the
Dake Senior’s crew, and his enunciation was clear and deliberate,
It is unfortunate that the part was so cut as to preclude the opportunisjy icy presenting one of the most interesting characters in the
play.

Miss MacKinnon was excellent as Audrey; she and Touchstone
were the most effective combination in the play. There is very little
that can be said about the part or the performance, except that she
Supported Touchstone splendidly, and added much colour and humour to the rest of the play. The efforts ef roles like that of Miss
_ MacKinnon turned the play towards the comic, which was no loss,

and which made the play a success. Nothing more can be said, exdit cept that she played a part which is not easy very capably, and
| with charm and vivacity.

a _ Celia was an effdctive ‘side-kick to Rosalind and a charming

ea addition to the cast aswell. She struck the right amount of shyness

“ih in contrast to the rathér ‘boisterous good humour of Rosalind, and
 * made her capture of Oliver look quite natural, which might have

apes “seemed otherwise under thé‘ circumstances. Phebe was very well handGa . led by Miss Conrod. Her penetrating stare in Ganymede’s direction
ate was quite a feat, apdrt’ froria: capable straight-arm for poor old
+ Silvius. Her, enunciation was as good as any, and her stage presence

-" . " ‘was.assured and. natural, 5 0
ui iv Mr, Art Hartling, playing his third or fourth Duke, did as well
_ as he always does. If ariything, he-was better this.year. His appear
    
 
 
  
  
   

‘gables, and he carried the part off well. In the speeches of the: Duke

bya

His voice and presence were Very good, and he suited them to the
part without losing the appearance of being quite natural, Mr. Mc_Gurdy as the Duke Senior was also very good. A calm benignity
and a dignified mien were ‘made the most of, and although he lost
an opportunity in some of his better speeches by delivering them
rather ponderously and without much spirit, his appearance and
voice generally suited the part.
_ Mr, Gardner was a good Oliver; as the villain he was a little

(Continued on Page 7)

ier Wak ah: | THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Hi {VU
¢, v/
ro % 'E Hx
f "1
' / z “
; he ; :
Y Ae , : Fi : :
; | ae : . R BE
af ' re a
ere : - 7 ar

_ ance as the villain of the’ piece was a relief among the other impec-_

Frederick, Mr.’Hartling made the most of the loud but uneasy at- _“titude which that ‘dignitary assumed, arid made it a véry good:“tmost.”.

DENTS

After several starts the Dental Society finally held its
biggest affair of the season. The
dance was held in the Nova Scotian Ball Room Wednesday, Nov.
19th., and so it was necessary to
confine the ball mostly to Dental
students and Faculty members.

Chaperons for the evening
were, Dr. and Mrs. Bagnall, Dr.
and Mrs. Dobson, and Mr. and
Mrs. Darcey. Decorating and
management of the Ball was ably
handled by Bill MacMurdo. Highlights of the evening were a spot
dance won by Bud Taylor, and
the all round campus girl, Bev.
Burke and a coke drinking contest won by Dave Peters and
Audrey Jones.

Jean Ferguson did a swell job
on the vocals to the accompanyment of Cec. Roberts Sextet.

Let us now recall some of the
incidents which happened. Master of Ceremonies Bill MacMurdo dropped the biggest surprise
of the evening but it didn’t break.

Eff. Hardy’s partner was disappointed when he failed to carry
out his table top dance. Major
Dalton also showed in the best
of spirits.

One female authority claimed

 

that strapless gowns were held

 

 

 
  
  

up by human nature and screw
nails Who was looking for a
screw driver that night?

Ed Sprachlan managed to take
a product of Histology — a very
good “slide,” Ed.

The courage and quick thinking of Eric Whyte saved a chandelier which was threatened by
a souvenir seeker.

T SQUARE

The shacksters are at last setthng down, and the Vertical and
Horizontal Clubs are dormant.
The Zero Club is awaiting new
members and among the old members welcomed back was Puddles.
After the game on the Seventeenth, the steel-boys are licking

 

 

their wounds. It was a close game

but we felt the loss of our star
player, Jim Morrow, who was injured in the first half. Cheer-up
fellows we'll get the basketball
and hockey this year.

There was a society meeting
last Tuesday and most of the
shacksters attended to hear the
latest developments of the various activities, Bill’ and Zen are
still wondering how to divide the
money from the canteen. Les

 

stride.

HEAD OFFICE

 
 

him over those unexpected hurdles .

  

MUTUAL DFE

Friday, November 28, 1947

SSNS?

Page had the crest drawing and
gave forth with the price, —
Result— —.

Best of luck on the Exams, En
_ gineers and we hope to see you

back after Christmas,

 

WET MONTREAL

 

(UXF) Nov. 2 — Vancouver
Ubyssey — Drinking is considered to be on a par with smoking
in the Province of Quebec, in
which there’ are no liquor restrictions, a University of Montreal
student told the Daily “Ubyssey.

Cocktails are served at University functions by the university
on the campus. But thre is neveeny drunkenness, he said.

“Adjournment of student coup
cil members to smal] taverns,”
Stated the anonymous spokesman,

“is considered to be a matter of
course.’’

 

A certain young lady from
Sherriff. Hall who was beings
ecurted by two lads from the
Residence was asked; “Don’t you
get them confused?’’---“Oh, yes,”
was the answer. “I confuse Jimmie on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and
Saturdays,--and Albert on the
other days of the week.”

 

ween

Not only tougher! They're sometimes very unexpected! And the man who clears them safely
and easily, while others falter, and fail the race,
is usually the man who looked ahead...

The man who looked ahead in early youth, and
charted a life insurance program that would carry

. . the man

who determined that whatever the future might
hold — the responsibility of marriage and children,
the misfortune of sickness, accident, or loss of income—he would be prepared to take them in his

To such a man, the Mutual Life representative is
a welcome friend—a wise and experienced counsellor who has been specially trained in adapting
life. ‘insurance to the. varied needs, desires, and
responsibilities of people ofall ages and incomes
ahd in ‘all-walks of lifes. .0%. °%

‘

toe He iseready to help, you. now,. ... to study your
particular circumstances and advise on the type

‘ of ‘policy ‘or policy-combinations best suited to

‘! -your requirements.: Make .an ‘appointment with
him today. Ask him ‘to explain the special features
of Mutual*low-cost life insurance. C2

THE.

  

WATERLOO, ONTARIO

 

 
   
         
         
     
   

 

 

ty
f

Naat aeekend ‘was certainly no lost one for Dal, with victories
ng in from all sports. A Maritime title has been gained, and

 

' a ee one will deny that it’s a well deserved award for our brother

But of course, one of the most outstanding victories was right
here at Studley, and it took the co-eds to get it. While the big guns
were off at Mt. A and Acadia, the ground hockey team remained

‘to defend our Alma Ma‘ter — bringing in a 3—1 win over Edgehill.
It was definitely one of the best if not the best, games played this
season, and our gals put everything they had into it. The Tigresses

played on empty stomachs (pretty sight) and their last practice was

two weeks behind them, so the old theories about a meal and lots
of practice before a game were rather shot. And say, surely not all
you femmes have 12 o’clock classes. By the looks of the turn out

en the stands Saturday, the girl’s spirit is slipping, but def. «Ptetty

bad when not a girl shows up. Thanks to those boys who’ cheéred
for our team. . ; ¥

Gwen Lugar. and Yvonne Lebraq had a day of it. After chalk
ing up a point apiece at the hockey game, they zipped off to Liver_ pool with the badminton team and shared in another victory.

But the football field was not the only place to see glory. On Thurs
day, Friday and Saturday evenings the D. G. D. S. proved to the
‘public that they were prepared to live up to, if not surpass, the

outstanding reputation gained by them during the past three years.
It was our first chance this year to look over Dal’s actresses, and
also our first glimpse of Lorna Innis and Edith Hills, who both
gave brilliant performances,

As you all know, black and gold blazers are beginning to creep.

onto the campus, which is all very well and good; but as you also
know, they are 82 thousand different styles. What Dal needs is a
Dal blazer — a regulation one which will be recognized as such.
McGill is a good example. The red and white blazer is recognized

all over Canada, and this is publicity plus for the Montreal Univer
sity.

would have a regulation blazer much the same as McGill’s, but
black and yellow edge. This plan can’t be successful, however, unless
the co-eds are 100% behind it. How about thinking it over. Do you
think Dal should have a university blazer?Marg. O’Neill, Holly Flemming, and yours truly are attempting to get it rolling, so if you’re
interested in the idea, let us know.

PS W.- Da

N

 

 

“AS YOU LIKE IT” (Continued from Page 6)

uncertain, but after his reformation he apparently became more sure
of himself, His lines were delivered well and his bearing was good.

_Mr. Pauley as Charles the wrestler was good; his enunciation was

also not perfect, but it would be asking too much to expect perfect
speech in a hall with the accoustics of the Gym. He looked like a
wrestler, which was the main thing, (no offence, Mr. Pauley.) and
geneally made the most of his part. Mr. Pauley also — according to
the programme —- appeared as a Lord. Mr. Himmelman was very
good as Silvius: his deep voice and dejected countenance conveyed
an excellent impression of the rejected lover. He carried himself
very well on the stage, and added to the heart complications with
no small: ability. Albert McMahon was quite good as Le Beau; the
foppish courtier is a favorite object of Shakespeare’s mild satire —
which, we are afraid, was lost in this performance except for a
touch or two by Touchstone. He delivered his lines well and clearly,
and was not uneffective.

Adam was done by Mr. MaclInnes, who carried his difficult part
very well. He managed to achieve both the querulous tones of an old
man and the necessary minimum of clarity for the audience’s benefit.
The good old man was well done; he fulfilled all the requirements
of the role without being noisy or exaggerated. Mr. Caswell contributed his voice to the play Amiens; it is rather a pity that the
emphasis is on solo work, rather than a few good rousing choruses,
but he did his songs very well indeed. A chorus, even if tuneless —
as most of them are — is a lot of fun. There is always something
selfconscious about a man singing a solo, but Mr. Caswell certainly

did very well.

Williaw and Corin should be dealt with together. Mr. Allen’s
‘orin was one of the priceless touches of the evening. We would
sav that he had had some experience before; his performance certainly indicated a trained ability, both in understanding the part
and in the mechanics. There is nothing very much that can be said
about his performance, except that it was by far the most perfect
of the minor roles. Williaw was also very good; his brief appearance was one of the play’s most effective. They, with Phebe and
Silvius, carried the burden of the play’s rusticity, and did that very
well. Mr. Bierhoff as Dennis made a short but good appearance in
the first scenes. There was also a good collection of Lords, foresters
and pages, who contributed to the performance.

Speaking in general, the play was a success, but it should be
remembered that’ the play is not good, and that no amount of directing or acting will make a poor play any better than it is. Miss
Innes, Mr. Creighton and Mr. Mackay turned in splendid performances, particularly Mr. Creighton, and without these the play
might not have sueceeded. The Glee Club should stop going from
comedy to poorer comedy from year to year, and at least make an
attempt at a tragedy or at least a history. Acacia did Othello very

well last year; we should not admit that a smaller institution can
do better than ourselves, or that the directing in Wolfville is any

better than it is here. |
The practices should start in the first term and the play appear

in February; Lesser efforts should go on during the first term, and ©

not the opposite as now. There is no reason why the Glee Club should
not present a very creditable Hamlet or Macbeth next year. Even
Mr. Pigo: might find a comedy too poor for Him to recreate effectively. | ee

 

We are at present working on a scheme whereby Dalhousie 
November 3, $947
The Editor, —
Dalhousie Gazette
Sir: pi.
In his letter of October 25, Mr. Alfred Harris is kind enough to
admit Dal’s need for a new Arts Building, but places this need second
to that for a new Men’s Residence, He calls synonymous the expressions ‘College Spirit’’ and “Residence Life,” perhaps misled by the
fine example of our campus partners, King’s College. i

I, too, am prepared to admit first, that Dal has a great need
for a Men’s Residence worthy of the name; second, that ‘Residence
Life” is certainly a factor in “College Spirit;’”’ and third, that Mr.
Harris is in good company, for other, and perhaps greater, men than

he have been misled by an example such as that set- by King’s.

I am NOT prepared to admit that the new residence should take
precedence over the new Arts Building, nor that “College Spirit’’ and
“Residence Life” are synonymous.

A large proportion of Dal students will continue to come from
Halifax and vicinity, preferring to live at home rather than in resi
‘dence. Any new residence cannot reasonably be expected to accom
modate all male students, even under the reduced registration expected
in the future which, according to those who should know, is never
again expected to reach the low level of a few years ago. Coupling

_with this the realization that highest quality, not merely adequate,

facilities are the aim of Dalhousie, and rightly so, there should be
no question of getting along “fairly comfortably.” Moreover, improved facilities for the whole, and particularly in the academic
sphere, should naturally take precedence over improved facilities of

“a non-academic nature for a fraction,’ however large, of the student

bedy.

“College Spirit,’+in the main, consists or should consist of a
genuine feeling of interest and pride in every activity and achievement of the university. It should not only be evinced by enthusiastic
support of university sports with liberal applications of paint and
air-borne propaganda, but, as well, by co-operative participation in
all campus activities and, last but far from least, in upholding and
perhaps extending the university’s scholastic record. Those things
that comprise ‘Residence Life” may well be the foundations on which
to build a “College Spirit,” but to say the two terms are synonymous
is as wrong as to call synonymous “library” and “knowledge.”

And, Mr. Harris, Dal’s ‘‘College Spirit’? is here, becoming more
apparent weekly. Long may it wave! But I see no sign of a new Men’s
Residence supporting that Spirit. If it is not the usual thing, so
much the better, for now, again, Dal can show the world, this time
that “College Spirit’? need not wait upon “Residence Life.”

Derek S. Griffin

 

 

CORRECTION
November 17, 1947

Dalhousie or for any group of
students anywhere,
Yours very truly,

peer C. L. Bennet

Dalhousie Gazette,

Dalhousie University.

WOMAN ASSULTED O
CAMPUS <

Dear Sir:

It will be appreciated if you
will correct the wrong impression
that has been made by your issue force were seen in the vicinity
of November 7, which contained of the
an article headed “Student Vets
Overwhelmed by Cheque.” Some
students did receive cheques for
more than the normal monthly
payment for benefits. This was
because the payment included 9
days in September. Any surprise
was immediately dispelled by this
simple explanation; there has
been no change in the rate for

Members of the local police
campus last Saturday
night, about eleven o’clock. Two
sightly befuddled students were
cueried by the police on their return to the campus, but were released on establishing an. alibi.
Ii was reported that the police
were hunting for an assailant or
assailants who had attacked a
woman passing by the campus.

5 te STP AIee yn
Pea 2th ae Ta Sich

Pye

oe “
"“* ea *

Coke = Coca-Cola
“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”

are the cegistered trade marks which
Aistineaish che product of Coca-Cola Led.

 

SHOOTING

THE MAN

T’is always a treat to me old
tired eyes to see a youth succeeding in his pursuit of a female.
Note fr’instance BOBBIE WILSON who has proceeded to neatly, snare one, CAROL WOOD.
Stars in the eyes and feathers in®
the head are noted in both cases.

Rebounding from a “crash.d’-'

amour” is cute CONNIE .CONRAD, Tough Connie (stand back
you wolves!)

I wonder if thespian LORNA
INNIS has found out yet who
“JERRY” is. My, my, such promiscuous tossing of kisses (are
you listening Howard).

Seene of battle Saturday wiil
be the New Scotland Palais de
Danse and foremost among the
hoofers I bet will be our own
JACK BOUDREAU. (La derniere
fling — roll on December 12).

Question of the week is why
HOLLY FLEMMING’S © steady
TIM HARLEY invariably arrives
at the Hall escorted by several
toothily grinning Kings men,
Grinding of female teeth is heard
constantly.

Does anybody know why the
fair NOELLE BARTER was left
a “stood-up” state on a Sunday
afternoon tea date? Maybe HERBIE fell asleep, got caught in a
bear trap or something.

Hope the inmates of the residence noted well the oh-so-beantiful female esoorted by the one
and only MORT CIVEN last Friday. I thought he was’a woman
hater. |

Oh well live and learn. Here’s
looking at you.

 

A clerk at the Gym. Bookshop
told a Dal. student: “Here’s a
book that will do half*your work
Iii you”.

“Great”, said the
‘Give me two of them’’.

student,

Father: “Who broke that cha.>
in the living-room?”’
Daughter: “A few minutes
aiter I came home it collapsed,
Dad, but neither of us were hurt’,

This one was overheard during

class-room lecture. ‘“Adolesaid a bright young
freshette, “is the age betwesn
prberty and adultery.’

scence,”

Ss

bY

SSS

BANS Baa
.. \ \ .
yh AN

\

COCA-COLA, LTD. — HALIFAX

el. Dale > 4 een an
ab : 4
ES ee a ee ee ee 2 Ie

 
  

 
 

~,

      
 
  

 
  
    

a = yy = a
es “a ; Ce"
ee a al SE

= te,

a

       
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
  

Se
. this will let the stuwad y | know that the council

Unive ty held their annual
4 . the Nova Scotian Hotel
ry evening of last week.

e attendance marked the
ng as a success, and it is
a) that similar dances

the aan Pats ta ds of this,
d _ therefore i proposé you an

2 our language, we will

ssu' twice a year an internation‘number in English, in order to

- ot

ive seeia®. students a look in

that men student body and ours
‘have the same ideas about 1.U.S.,
| RY. ff ea be very important to have
re) ! _. knowledge of each others dealp , F ot as af
Bs “ee ‘ : HA Hoping you will accept our
ge meee
a -- yours sincerely,
ee ; ; W. G. Poolman,

Head Editor Forum Acad
emiale.

~? e
Notice

Dr  Dalhousie’s English Rugger

a8 pea this year’ 8 Maritime Inter
a a at Nov. 28.

eas a fy rae
«Tt Gs hoped that all Dalhousians
with Dal spirit surging through
their veins will attend, and cele_ brate the victory of the Rugger
a Music by the Denny Bur
of tenderness and love.

DAL — MT. A.
(Continued from Page 5)
or nothing a placement was passed up, and the ball ended up in
dead ball territory. But the Dal
team drove still harder. After a
series of five yard scrums and

’ some heady work by Gordie Hart,
Quigley scored on a pass from
. Rebertson. Four minutes

later
regulation time ended with the
score 3—3. Scrum work in this
half was even, 10—19.

The first overtime period was
all Mount Allison’s. They pressed
continually and theatened to
score, several times. A nice run
by Robinson and a series of 5
yard scrums kept the pressure
on the Tigers. Finally Mt. A. received a penalty kick from 265
yards out and about 15 yards
from the side. The placement
missed. The Dal scrum had a 5—3
edge in this period.

Mt. A. kept the ball in Dal
territory as the second overtime
began, but the Tigers soon started to roll down the field on what
proved to be a winning offensive.
Gordie Hart took a pass from
Robertson and slid into paydirt
to give Dal a 6—3 lead. The
Mounties came back desperately,
but they couldn’t crack the Dal
defence, and the game ended
with Dalhousie Intermediate
Champions of the Maritimes.

For Mt. A.: Robinson, Stevens,
and Lutes were outstanding, while
for Dal Russ MacEwan, Gordie
Hart, Willie Robertson, Don Harrisson, Foo Grant an Rosie MaeMillan carried the bulk of the
‘mail.

~

Footwear

We specialize in

that will fit every

taste — for either service «
dress wear, for around the
campus or attending social
functions,

We cordially invite you
pay us a visit. We present stich
linee as ‘Hart’, “Slater”
“Murray” and “Ritchie”

SHANE’S
Shoe Store

397 Barrington St., Halifax

GOOD PENS

Birks carry a complete stock
of pens and pencils by leading
makers,

Eversharp
Parker

Sheaffer

Watermans iY
HENRY BIRKS & SONS

LIMITED

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. 8S.

Oxford Theatre

M. T. W.

PVE ALWAYS

LOVED YOU
(Piano recordings by Arthur
Rubinstien)

a BS.
THE WEB

SPRINGTIME IN |
He ooo

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

S©rUDENT COUNCIL
NEWS

The Dalhousie Stadents Council devoted their meeting Wednesday Nov. 12. to the study of D.
A.A.C. budgets. As each sport
representative presented his
be accorded the various sports.
budget the council considered its
contents and what finances would
Amongst the budgets discussed
were those of tennis, hockey,
badmington. A sodales item was
also considered.

The council then turned to the
question of a new Business Manager for Pharos. The council president read the applicant letters
and chose Mr. Alan Mowatt to
fill the position.

Mr. Bernal Sawyer motioned
an acceptance of Lew Millers resignation as chairman of the LS.
S. Derek Griffin was appointed
to succeed Lew. G. Payzant is to
t delegate to the I.S.S., conference at Toronto.

A letter to commend the band
was suggested. Upon agreeing to
this the council decided that in
future the Publicity Director will
inform the band when to play.

Finally a small budget advanced by Art Mears was read and
accepted, as well as a progress
report on the football league

ity a
‘ u . tba

_ rage
ona 6 “s fe
= = a a
, ws '

*’

# as,

foie bees) ak
-.*

FRENCH CONSUL

What is the present economic

situation in France? What are

the possibilities of studying in
France? These are only two of
the many qnuestions answered by Mr. Roger Picard, the
French Consul in Hakfax. Mr.
Picard addressed the students
of Dalhousie at a meeting
held Tuesday evening November
25th in the common room of the
Engineering Bldg. at 8 P.M.

Mr. Picard was born in the
north of France. He is a graduate from the Law School of the
University of Paris. In 1939 he
was drafted into the 127th Regiment of Infantry as a Lieutenant. From Dec. 1939 to May
1945 he was in command, of a
company of machine gunners.
Made a prisoner in June 1940 he
was in Germany till April 6, 1945.
Mr. Picard was the French Consul
in Quebec city from 1945 till
1947. .

The meeting is open to all students interested in French. There
will be refreshments served under
the auspices of the Cercle
Francais.

amounting to $750.

a egal fet to

® Now there's a pretty picture ”

® Mmm... a perfect Sweet Cap silhouette.”

Friday, November 28, 1947

« WU. of T. Clubs Buck ~- |;
Tuition Fee Raise

Over teri University ef Toronto
clubs met recently to organize a
rally to protest the actions of the
Board of Governors in raising the
trition fees

The meeting was called by a
number of social, political and
cultural organizations on the

campus to obtain a concrete
effort on the part of the student body in protesting these in-.
creases.

“We realize,” said one student,.
“that the increase of costs to the
university is unavoidable but we
feel that this increase should be
borne by the provincial government in order that the financial
barrier which prohibits so many
from attending the university
be made as small as possible.”

The delegate of the Canadian.
Legion said: “The question of an.
increase of fees constitutes a.
threat to the whole idea of incieased opportunity of education,
This is a retrogressive step and:
while the veteran is not directly
concerned with his fees, we feel
t at any step to decrease th
cpportunity for education will befelt in the general attitude taken.
toward the student veteran.”

een Pa cas a

et ke neat: nnd ata wetballeds a Nation te «aisles Lilietiy setae

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

 
