~
i)

   
  

 

 

oe x
Friday

_— see sports

 

Vol. 79

 

 

©

 

 

SAZET TE

+ + a * *

 

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY,

 

SADIE HAWKINS DAY—In answer to a request for a_photograph
conveying the meaning of Sadie Hawkins Day, Gazette photographers Danny Soberman and Dick Glube this week produced the above

example of table-top photography. Their comment on the job—

“You try painting a face on a marshmallow”.

 

Sadie Hawkins Dance Not
Far Away, Boys Are Warned

 

Hopeful males at Dalhousie
University will be on their best
behavior for the next week, °s
the pre-Sadie Hawkins week rolls
by and bids from the distaff side
for the Sadie Hawkins Dance are
at a premium,

As in past years, the proce1ure will be for the girls to invite the boys to the dance. The
girls will be responsible for all
costs, including taxis, meals at
Normans, corsages, tickets for the
dance, yefreshments and possibly
bromos the following day.

As has been the custom in
past years, Don Warner’s able
aggregation will provide the
music, and we gymnasium will
be the site, of the dance of the
year for Dalhousie Hollow.

Male students who have entered the beard growing contest
which will be judged on Munro
Day, will be at their worst for
the Sadie Hawkin’s Day festivities. A half-inch of itchy stubble
will be their legacy, but if they
are men of principal they will
stick by theiy guns, and their
beards. Girls are urged to remember that the boys aren’t unkempt,
partcularly, they are merely
working for a good cause. The
title, ““Beard-Growing Champion
of Dalhousie” is a great honour.

 

BULLETIN

A general meeting of the ISS
committee was held Thursday to
consider plans foy the opening
of the

Children which commences Feb.
& A few names of candidates
for the Campus King contest were
Fee Taran

Canadian Appeal for

 

Hall Girls
Open, Private
Tuck Shop

Two Shirreff Hall girls with
a contempt for tradition have
set themselves up as competitors
to Roy Atwood and his Gym emporium by establishing a tuck
shop in the girl’s residence, it
was learned this week.

Adina Gallay, Senior Arts, and
Roselle Katz, ist. Year Law,
keeping up with the march of
progress so that Hall girls will
no longer be forced to brave the
wintry winds in pursuit of evening refreshments, are the two
pioneers in this latest ventmre.

A maze of red-tape and legal
entanglements was brushed, presumably by Miss Katz, one of the
few girls at Dal who pursue the
study of law. Greeted with enthusiasm by the majority of Hall
Girls this venture has been observed with an added interest by
cther campus groups.
ee ee

BULLETIN

 

The annual meeting of the
Freshman class of Dalhousie University was held Thursday in
the Chemistry Theatre.

Andy MacKay, popular fresh
. Man athlete was elected presid
ent of the initiation committee;

_ Jan Robertson was named Vice

President, and Dipe Marshall was
elected secretary treasurer. This
committee will be in
the freshman
next fall.

charge of
initiation services

FEBRUARY 6,

1948

*

 

Delta

Gamma
Meeting
Tuesday

 

No. 14

 

COUNCIL OPENS BUDGET TALKS

Monday .Meeting To Deal With
Munroe Day, Pharos, Student Fees

 

LAW DEBATERS
WIN AT TORONTO

Dalhousie Law Society debaters gained sweet revenge at Torcnto last weekend as they won
their annual debate with the debating team from Osgoode Hall.

Dalhousie debdters were Bill
Cox and Tommy Giles, who supported the negative of the resolution, “Resolved that the Communist Party should be outlawed
in Canada”.

The Halifax team won the debate by unanimous decision of
the judges.

MUNROE DAY SHOW
TO BE HILARIOUS

 

 

News from the operations room
of Dalhousie’s assault on the
forces of reaction, namely the
great Munro Day “festivities, is
that Bob MacDougall and Bob
Ward are deep in the maze of
activity surrounding the writing
of a Munro Day show.

Latest reports are that the
writers have been consulting the
script of that great epic of 1945
-—Duffy’s Tavern, which almost
ruined the careers of several
budding Dalhousie students.

If this year’s Munro Day Show
is to be a success, then students
should aid in the many tasks
which contribute to the development of a great production of
the type being considered this
year. MacDougall and Ward, two
masters at the art of farcial
writing, will naturally turn out
a hilarious comedy. Al} those interested in acting, or helping in
any manner are urged to contact Bob MacDougall, phone number, 3-2628,

 

RADIO DAY PLANS

Greeted by an enthusiastic yesponse on the part of student volunteers, the Dal Radio Day, under the direction of Art Mears,
Publicity Dir., promises to be one
of the highlights of the year.

Already there are more volunteers for various positions than
are required, and Art Mears has
announced that one of the CJCH
officials will aid in the selection
of chief announcers,

Proceding with organization,
Mr. Mears has announced that
there will be a meeting of all interested students in the basement
room of the Arts Bldg. at 12: 215,
Tburaday. “Keb. 12,

The executive of the Dalhousie
University council of students
will meet in the Murray Homestead Monday evening, Feb. 9,
at 7.30 p.m., according to an announcement this week by Ross
Hamilton, President of the Students Council.

Items on the agenda will be;
Munro Day Budget. Pharos Budget, Brief on Student Fees, Brief
on Student employment, Arena
Skating and other business,

ARENA SKATING

The council recently voted
$100 to be used for free skating
at the Arena. After this Friday
evening the initial sum will have
been expended. While students
will be admitted free of charge
this Friday, they will not next
Monday evening. The council will
discuss the matter further next
Thursday night and a statement
will then be made regarding the
matter. It is hoped that it will
be found possible to continue the
service, which evidently has been
used to advantage by students
cf the University.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

One of the matters engaging
the interest of the council at present is that of Student Employment. The Veterans Service which
has been operating for some time
at Dalhousie is now being studied
with a view to its being taken
ever by the Student Council.

Employment for students takes
three forms. There is casual employment during the college year,
and this type of employment
bas good possibilities in Halhfax
for many students who wish to
supplement their income by part
time work. There is temporary
employment, which is a means of
providing work for students during the summer months. Many
students take advantage of this
and Dalhousie has a
lengthy summer term which enables many to earn considerable
amoumts of the long green. There
is, as well, permanent employment to be considered. There are
facilities available to make it
easiey for Dalhousie students to
find permanent positions. The
executive of the council will discuss these forms of employment
at its meeting Monday evening
and it is hoped that satisfactory
arrangements can be made so
that Dalhousie students will be
in a better position to find jobs
than has been the ease in past
terms.

BUDGETS

Budgets of the Dalhousie year
book, Pharos, will be considered

ar Se ge

 

rather 
 

DAL GIRLS
IN CAMPAIGN

In a move aimed at defying
tradition of past years at Dalhousie University, Dalhousie
girls last week announced that
they will nominate a candidate
(female) for the position of vicepresident of the Students Council
in the forthcoming student elections.

A meeting of the Delta Gamma society will be held Tuesday
February 10, to consider nominations for the girl’s candidate.
It is the intention that Delta
Gamma as a whole support the
candidate, rather than just the
girls from Shirreff Hall. ms

It is understood that a_ girk
did run for the position of vice
 

president of the council during ~

the war years, and that she was
elected. She was a rare case:
however, and the Delta Gamma
girls feel that they must present
a unified front in order to have
their nominee elected.

DEAR RUTH I$
WIDELY LIKED

Last Thursday, the Dalhousie
Glee and Dramatic Society presented its latest production to 2
large student audience. Few of
the Society’s works have wor
such immediate and enthusiastic
acclaim as did “Dear Ruth” on
its opening night. From beginning
to end the audience and the actors enjoyed themasives, and
every opportunity for humour
was made full use of by the cast.

The best performance of the
evening was delivered by Art
Hartling, who, as Judge Wilkins,
made a humourous part even

 

more so with his natural ability —

for this type of work. The lead
ing roles in the play were cap- ably handled by Marg Goode’

and John Trimm while Pat. Macstinnon, Lorna Innis, and John

Pauley performed to perfection 
their particular roles.
iE’

by the council at Monday’s meet= .

ing, as well as the budget for
expenses of running off the
anual Munro Day Show—biggest
event of the Campus year.

INCREASED STUDENT FEES

One of the biggest items on

the agenda will be a brief for *he |

much-discussed, recently prc rOSed increase in student fees. It. is
believed that a proposal for a

direct payment to the DAAC will
be considered.

 

re

 
 


~

i.e”
4

‘CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

* * * * *
Editor-in-Chief
LEW MILLER
Managing Editor Business Manager
BRUCE LOCKWOOD AL..RUBIN
News Sports Features

BOB TUCK ART MOREIRA
Page Editors

PETER MINGO, JOE LEVISON, J. TRIM, SHERBERNE McCURDY
ANNE DeCARTERET- (Literary)

JACK LUSHER

Associates

JAN ROBERTSON, MANAGER, MURIEL RITCHIE,
JONHNSON, BEV HUNTINGTON

JERRY

Circulation aa

MURIEL RITCHIE, MANAGER, D. SADOFSKY, JAN ROBERTSON,

JERRY JOUNSON, A. de CARTERET, BEV HUNTINGTON.

Photographers.... DANNY SOBERMAN, DICK GLUBE, E. RICHTER

Proof Readers. MIRIAM GLUBE MANAGER. BETTY THOMPSON
D. SADOFSKY

Astistant Business Manager .........:::::sccssepsessereeeees ROBIN MacLEAN
Exchange Manager PETER SEDERIS
I Noche 8 Bsagisn.aoubsesinsiejonrsicess Finite SEU” WALLACE

Reporters a
PATSY PIGOT, BOB McQUINN PHILLIP SIMON — Dent Society.

SERCO E HSER Re RE SERE HEPA FESESE TEEPE SES OTS ETESEE TEES

Vol. 79 Friday, February 6, 1948 No. 14

CAESAR'S GALLING WARS

Now that we have committed ourselves to the conducting of
a local radio station for a full day of broadcasting, wefind ourselves faced with the problem of providing entertainment for at
least four hours other than regular feature hours. Hence we find
elves faced also with a dilemma that has confonted any amateur organization that has been in a similar position. There is an
abundance of talent among students at Dal. We havea dance orchestra for example, that most students would, without prejudice, match
aguinit any “name” band in Canada. But on March 8 we shall not
shear them unless we are prepared to pay out Union fees from ah
slvsads over-burdened Council treasury. The Union, dn fact, does
not permit the musicians to volunteer, and if they were to accept
payment and then pass it back without receipt, as has heer suggested by some students, the band would be jeopardizing its futaire so far as off-the-campus work is concerned. That thought, therefore, must be ruled out. And we cannot blame the musicians.—We

 

 

have however, a number of excellent’ pianists who will be able to

play—that, is -if we purchase Union tickets for them, ‘or pay ‘standby’ pianists who will not so much ‘as touch the piano for payment.
Again, then, we bump into Caesar’s rulings. And many are the
stories of a similar nature that have been brought ‘to light since
Comsat Petrillo has decided to protect the interests of his boys.
The economic argument concerning the necessity for organized labor is as: insoluble ‘as the problem of which came first— the
chicken or the egg. Protagonists of labor maintain that they must
organize to fight, among other things, the rising costs of living;
and their opponents maintain that labor’s demands for highey wages
have forced them to raise the prices of produce, It is senseless,
perhaps, for the layman to form an opinion on this matter; but he
can without much thought, see the extremes to which both parties
have been going. Just as profiteers are ‘killing the goose that laid

the golden egg’—turning ‘free enterprise’ into ‘private enterprise’

—so are such men as Caesar and his types destroying the labor
union movement. ;

_ With this problem in mind a U.B.C. delegation forwarded the
following resolution that was passed at the recent NFCUS conference in Winnipeg: “‘Be it hereby resolved that NFCUS secure from
the National Headquarters of the Canadian branch of the American
Federation of Musicians definite assurance that Canadian Universities be able to broadcast programs on a non-commercial, amateur
and cultural basis using students’ talent over the air during any
airtime not currently used by any station fo; commercial broad
casting without recourse from local musicians’ unions.”

Surely this resolution is not unreasonable. Surely the thofisands
of musicians in Canada who have willingly or unwillingly joined
the Union in defence of their interests will see that this request
will not hinder their efforts to make a living. Students, in this instance, are not competing with professiorial musicians. -- - Will
Petrillo, however, the man who allegedly boasted to his union’s
1946 convention in St. Petersburg that he intentionally violated
an American law, be reasonable? If subordinate labor members are
wise they shall endeavour to curtail the czarist methods of their
boss. University students so often called “the future leaders of

; the world”, will not be inclined to understand the principles for

 

which labor is fighting if labor is unwilling to abet the harmless
desires of “the future leaders’. And if there is one thing that
labor meeds most, at present, it is undergtanding.—Meanwhilt it
appears that we shall have to be satisfied with a musicless radio
day. There is, of course, a possibility that a speaker’s union will
be formed in the meantime, and then we shall have to hire ‘standby’ members of the Union to be there while we amateur speakers,
have the privilege of one of our basic liberties: Extreme as this
thought is, it is hardly more so than the present musicians’ union
code of restrictions.

. those

- stated that

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

EDITOR'S
MAILBOX

Dear Sir,

“nuff said.” No. certainly
not. Further, I would like to analyze last week’s letter point by
point.

The Hebrews were all originally from the Arabian desert
and drifted into Palestine ‘bptween 1400 and
(Breasted) At a maximum, then,
“our poor ancestors” have not
been in Palestine for more than
3300 years. A far cry from 5000.

Thirteen hundred years ago
(632 A. D.) the Arabs overran
spread from India to Spain. The
Arabs have been the most num
 

erous people in Palestine since
then. In the XI Century Palestine fell .under the Seljuk

Turks, and successively under the
Christian Chusaders, Egyptians,
Mongols and, finally, the Ottoman Turks until 1918. Considerably more than a “great total
of thirty years.” quoted by the
erstwhile historian.

The Arabs joined the Allies
in World War 1 under H.R.H.
King Hussein, and fought for the
liberation and unity of the Arabs
INCLUDING THE ARABS IN
PALESTINE. The Allies made
clear their promises to the Arabs
that they would support them in
their nationalistic clams and that
Palestine was to be no exception
to the areas which were promised
freedom and independence. (Fadhel-Jamli, Ph.D., Univ. of Beirut
and Columbia.)

“...The British promised the
Arabs all of the Arab speaking
land except Lebanon and certain peints to the North... the
Arabs revolted against the Turks,
made great sacrifices and helped
the British to ‘take the land..”’
McMahon and Colonel Lawrence
promised definitely that the

Arabs would have all the lands.

that they~conld conquer, except
lying west of Damascus,
Hama. Alleppo’ and certain points
to the North. The records are

clear and definite. (Mr. Charles
Issawi, The Arab Office, Washington. )

“I have received orders from
my Government to inform you
that all your demands are accepted and that all you ask will

be sent. (McMahon to the
Shereef of Mecca.) What were

these demands? They are contained in a letter from the Shereef to McMahon. .

‘That the British Gov’t. ackknowledge the independence of
the Arab countries in every sense
of the word... bounded by 37 degree latitude to the borde; of
Persia... and on the: West by the
Red Sea and the Mediterranean
Sea to Messina.”

Understood by even the simplest of people? Yes, and I

-- thoroughly agree.

I am at a loss to understand
just what was meant by... after
all, Trans-Jordan was completely
liberated by 12,000 Jewish soldwhile the main organized
strength of the Arabs was turned against the Allies.” Lawrence,
in his Sven Pillars of Wisdom
“without the Arab
help England could not pay the
price of winning the Turkish
sector. When Damascus fell the
Eastern war drew to an end.”

As to the statement attributed to the Archbishop of Lebanon
¥ might be well to recall remarks made by Dr. Judah Magnes, Hebrew Univ. of Jerusalem:
‘... Zionist totalitarianism which
is trying to bring the whole Jewish population under its influ
ers

ence by violence and force.” Or
(Continued on page 8)

$200! “By. o.."

Friday, February 6, 1948

 

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED
Studley Drug Store

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpoo! Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

   
     
     

29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store
Rat gee ore

os

 

 

Regular deposits, whether monthly,
quarterly, or yearly, with THE MARITIME LIFE not only give you security
NOW but will provide you with a handMsome RETIREMENT INCOME.

: Yoy will be amazed when you see
mM Maritime’s low rates.

THE MARITIME LIFE

A. R. FRASER, C. L. U.
Manager Nova Scotia Branch
Building, Halifax, N. S.

83-8745

 

Green

I
BOB HART 
santern
elephone

 

a

ZS Say SCHWARTZ

omnes
and be sure! «=

—

 

It was a good slogan in war.. It is now a good slogan in peace:
“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
der and Dried Fruit,

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

.

#
%
q

 

 

 

 

 

 

Visit the new WILLIS store — Attractively set up depart
ments featuring —

BOOKS - RECORDS - MUSIC - ELECTRIC APPLIANCES

|
Willis

|
|
|
|
|

Piano Co. Limited

| - 127 Granville St. (at Duke),
| | HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S, DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

 

Dalhousie Wuiversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction
iN mattaanalinapes Wes Shek ee

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineerin
Bachelor of Science Biduestion ©
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science Mining Geology
Pre-Prefessiona]l Courses
menting venice es. cae’
/r our and Advanced Courses in many departments
inclusive Fees in the 8. Sc, course about $210.00 a year
in the B. A, Course average about $160 00 ®
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the ¢ oad
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held i
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for H =
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.

The Professional Faculties
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hal] —
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is, provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two affliated institutions or in selected and appraved homes
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service

students,

one of the finest Women’s

Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information write te THE REGISTRAR.

 

 

*

|

 

,

 

‘Vor 19 :

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
HALIFAX, N.S., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1948

DEBATERS IN.
WEEKLY MEETS |

Two batebeclleeinte debates are
scheduled for Dalhousie within
the coming week. To-morrow
evening, Saturday, Feb. 4 the
Visiting team from U.N.B. ” Law
School will meet the Dal team
of Don Harris and Alf Harris.
The debate will be held in the
Engineers’ Common Room, at
8.00 p.m. Subject, tthe affirm-~ative of which will be taken by
the visitors, is “Resolved that the
Canadian Senate shouldbe an

7 elected body.”

On Tuesday evening, Feb. 10.
‘ Same. time, same place, the old
~ tens between Dal and Acadia
will be renewed, -when a team
from Acadia will debate the

, afirmative of a timely topic: “Re
solved. that the inner logic of

socialism necessitates a totalitar
ian state.’”’ The law team of Al
Baccardax and Ear] Urquhart,

who have shown themselves abe

debaters in the inter-fac contests,
will do the honors for Dalhousie,
taking the negative of the resolution.

Both these debates promise to
be of the high calibre which has

‘characterized intercollegiate de
bating in past years, and a good
support by the student body is
assured for the teams.

NFCUS PRESIDENT
TO VISIT DAL

Bob Harwood, president of the
National Federation of Canadian
Univrsity students, left Vancouver on Tuesday to begin a
tour of all Canadian Universities,
in an attempt to co-ordinate the
activities of the NFCUS organization. President Harwood will
arrive at Dalhousie on the morning of February 26, and durinz
his 24 hour stay will meet with

 

 

University and Comment officers..

 

 

NFCUS Student
Exchange Mooted

One of the several projects
undertaken this year by the NFCUS is an attempt to revive Student Exchange between Canadian Universities. . This plan,
dropped early in the war, enabled
students in their junior year to
attend any university participating in the scheme by applying
for transfer, and on acceptance,
paying the usual fee at their own
University, and being exchanged
for a student from the other
college..

The -University of Toronto is
at present compiling complete information useful to students interested in the plan, courses
available. housing conditions,
special facilities available at the
different colleges, and this information should be available to Dal
students by the end of February
in the form of a report to be
kept in the Library and with the
local NFCUS committee.

A further aspect of the plan
involves International exchange.
Over 20 European Universities
have contacted NFCUS regarding the plan—and it is expected
that tuition in the co-operating
colleges will be free. Further information is available from the
NFCUS committee, or the local
chairman, 41 Lomas.

 

STAFF FOR D-DAY
IS SHORT-HANDED

Time passes, and there are

‘still vacancies in the staff of

radio personnal reqired for an
adequate production of D- Day ,
Dalhousie’s Day on Radio Station C.J.C.H., Halifax.

Students should remember that

Russ McKinney
— HOPEFUL —.

 

DR. KERR SPEAKS
TO OPEN HOUSE

 

Dr. Kerr, president of the University, spoke to the regular
open house meeting of the Students’ Christian Movement in the
common room of the Mens’ Residence last Sunday evening.

Speaking on - Russia, and
especially “Communism and
Christianity’, Dr. Kerr spoke of
a summer spent in Russia, with
an account of religious and political thought which has influenced
that country.

The next open house will feature a discussion panel with Lois
Pattee, Jim Rupehand and Alex
Reid speaking on work camps. All
interested are invited to attend.

 

D-Day is the day before Munro
Day, not the day after. You
Needn’t have a headache on DDay.

Students are urged to drop
down to the Gazette office and
leave their name and favored
radio occupation on the growing
list on the Gazette office door.

 

DALHOUSIE SKI ENTHUSIASTS ENJOY
EXCURSION TO WENTWORTH VALLEY

Dalhousie students may have
theiy ups and downs, but never
so much so as the group that left
Union Station early last Sunday
morning.

It was the group whose destination was Wentworth Valley...
land of picturesque snow smothered slopes the thrills and spills
of a day’s skiing...and the inevitable results.

The trip to Wentworth was one
of keen anticipation and enthusiasm. No sooner had Halifax been
left behind when skiis were awkwardly strewn about the cars and
given a coating of wax. Jokes
were exchanged as to just what
could happen once a person was
charging downward at a 50 mile
clip... For members of the Dalhousie School of Bridge Playing

the trip was a heyday. Laughter

reigned supreme.

Truro!!....A fast cup of coffee,
a few doughnuts and perhaps a
magazine with a cover portraying
a new ski outfit. _ And here too,
Erie Milsom, former Dal engineer
arrived on the scene sporting an
_earrtoeer Rs ee of enn

popes :

ment. He had left his cable
harness behind, missed the Dartmouth Ferry and the train. Icy
roads were no obstacle however;
and Eric arrived at the Truro
station with his car parked outside...this time with his harness.

Then..Wentworth Valley. Ski
gogglers, virgin snow and sunshine. A_ heated schoolhouse,
heated station stop, hospitable
farm houses. Frozen hands, “cold

feet”, and weary, snow-blind in- |

dividuals huddled tbout a hot
stove.

Although the injuries necessary to a day of skiing did. occur,
the rugged representatives from
Studley, aboyt one third of the
total group, emerged without a
casulalty. A few returned with
one and half skiis, of course, but
no blood wts drawn.

Darkness found scores of the
ski-weary munching on thick

‘Sandwiches in the station house,

and word that the train would
be three and one half hours late.
A hurried phone call to Sheriff
Hall by those with early leave,

tnd after a cozy evening in the

station the return train at 11
o’clock. An ambitious group of
Mt. Allison skiers, who had also
spent the day in the valley, got
a taste of spirit that would have
put the Dal football bleachers
and brass band to shame. In reply to a school well by the Allisonians as they boarded their
westbound train, a deafening UPi-Dee echoed through the valley. :
Among most on the return
trip, bridge playing was exchanged for a quick game of “hearts”,
while a thirsty few still roamed
through the cars with jokes and
pleasant reminiscences. The day
spent at Wentworth Valley was
definitly one to be remembered.

 

TO HOLD BEARD
GROWING CONTEST

‘Students interested in entering the .Munro Day beardgrewing, or “Whiskerina” contest
are informed that the deadline
for entry in the contest has been
extended to Wednesday, Feb
 

 

 

 

DR. A. E. KERR (above) president of ‘Dalhousie University,
will address the student . body,
Tuesday, Feb. 10, at 12.15 p.m.
in. the gymnasium, according to
an announcement from the president’s office this week.

It is understood that some classes will be cancelled in order
that students may attend the
meeting in the gym.

 

LOMAS TO ATTEND
NFCUS MEETING

Al Lomas, Maritime Vice- President of the NFCUS and ehairman of the local NFCUS committee leaves Saturday morning
to attend a meeting of the NFCUS executive at McMaster University, Hamilton,

‘his executive meeting is expected to discuss plans for the
National Students’ Tour of Canada this summer,
American and International Exchange schemes, a Canadian University Radio Federation, a
National Students’ Magazine, and
information leading to the formation of Co-operatives and Credit
Unions on various campili.

 

e
Notice 7
At least 10 interested students are needed by the local
NFCUS Committee to carry
out the work of the orgtnization at Dathousie. For the

rest of this year this will include’

. University Radio.

. Student Income.

. Student Exchange Plans.

. National Tour of Canada.
. Student Free Loans.

. Campus Co-operatives.

. Student Council Organization.

. Student Summer Employment,
Those
vised to contact: Al Lomas__
GAZETTE office or 3-4505.

interested are ad
 

ruary 11, To date, a small group
have registered and it is anticipated that a large list of entries will be received at the’
Gaze'te office before deadline.

ty a a i ee ee

McKINNEY TO
BE CANDIDATE

Canadian,”

 

No. 14

 

 

 

First gun in the Dalhousie student election campaign was fired

this week by the Arts and Science
society as they nominated Russ
McKinney, Commerce student
and. representative of the commerce society on the students
council, as their candidate for

the position of president of the.
students council for the school

yeay 1948-9,

Noninated as a candidate for
the vice-presidential position was
Bernal Sawyer, Arts and Science
representative on =. this year’s
council, president of the Arts and
Science Society, and chairman of

the Dalhousie I.S:3S. Committee).

Other nominees for council
pesitions were; Sophomore, John
“rim and Bev Huntington; Junior Bob Smith and Bob Wilson;
Junior Girl, Fran Doane, Rennie
Fisher; Senioy Boy, Ross Hamilton; Noel Hamilton Senior Girl,
Shirley McCoy, Joan Myrden.

ARTS SOCIETY TO

CANCEL BIG DANCE

 

During a recent meeting of
the Dalhousie -Arts and Science

Society, it was decided that the

annual Arts and Science Bal},
scheduled to be held in the Nova
Scotian Hotel, Feb. 20, be cancelled.

This decision was reached when
members expressed the opinion
that the dance could not possibly
be operated without the society’s
funds being sadly depleted. There
are at least a dozen dances and
«ther social activities taking
rlace on the campus and in the
city within the next few weeks.

Dramatics Manager, Pasty
Pigot, has announced that the
Society’s one-act play for competition’ for the Connolly Shield,
will be the farcical comedy Semper Victorious. Students inter
ested in participating are requested to contact Miss Pigot.

 

-MARDI GRAS BALL

TO BE HELD SOON

The annual Mardi Gras ball,
sponsored by. the Newman Club
of Dalhousie University, will be
held in the ballroom of the Nova
Scotian Hotel at 8.30 p.m. Feb.
10, according to an announcement by Jack Boudreau, Chairman of the Dance committee.

Plans are rapidly nearing completion, and a good time is
guaranteed foy all. Don Warner’s
orchestra, which has been rehearsing several new novelty
numbers and approprate Mardi
Gras music, will be on hand for
the dance. \

_—_—

 

Notice to Contributors

As in the past, letters are to
be ‘restricted to approximately
two hundred words. Exceptions,

however, will be made if con
tributors will notify the [ditcy
prior to the Saturday precediny

‘the printing of the GAZETTE,

 

 
 

3
+
Pe UE

_ Nova Scotia Intercollegiate Bas
REPORT

BY BOB TUCK

 

The talk of the campus this morning (Wednesday) is the

hockey team. Those people who sadly shook their heads last Sat
urday aftey seeing the Tigers narrowly avert defeat at the hands
of Acadia, are now scratching their heads. For Acadia did not have
the reputation of having a first-rate hockey team. And St. Dunstan’s were the Maritime Intercollegiate Champions. Moreover St.
Dunstan’s had not lost a game all season long, and had been sweeping
aside all opposition in the Charlottetown “Senior” League. The whole
situation needs some examination. Before the Acadia game this wise
observer made the prediction that the Tigers would have & shakey
first period but would settle down and win the game. That's what
happened. The reason for the shakey first period was that it was
the first time the Dal team had taken the ice to play a game-at full
‘strength. The two exhibition games the week before were played
without Robertson, O'Neill and MacMillan. It’s very hard for a team
to immediately start to click with players who have not been playing previously, even if those players are stars in their own right.

And it is still going to take a few games before they hit top stride.
*

oe SRE

Of course Jimmy Gray played a prominent part in the St.

Dunstan’s victory. Jimmy is ineligible for intercollegiate play. But 
Windy O’Neill was absent, and if Gray’s presence strengthened the
forwards O'Neill's absence weakened the defence. And one of St.
Dunstan's top players, Mahar, who picked up two assists Tuesday
night, is ineligible for intercollegiate play also. The game was an
exhibition, but its result throws a new light on the Maritime Inter
collegiate picture.
& * ¢ s a

The ski-trip to the Wentworth Valley by the Dartmouth SkiClub, seems to have been more of a Dalhousie affair than anything
else. Ski-ing has been rather dormant around Dal for a number of
years, but enthusiasm for the sport has picked up considerably this
term. The trip to the Wentworth Valley turned out to be an unqualified success and some ‘of the Dal skiers had been casting longing
eyes on the Maritime Ski-Meet to be held at U.N.B. in the near future,
However the D. A. A. C. has been unwilling to forward funds for
the journey; their reasons are the best of course, dictated by economy
and the need of all their budget for more important, budget provided for expenses .However, those interested feel sure that such

Dal skiers as Bob Pond, Dave Snow, Jamie MacKay, Jimmy Coup
land, Jack Wileox and Bob Willett would give a good account of
themselves in an Intercollegiate Meet. .

DISA & DATA: King’s Junior basketball team sprang the upset of the Halifax League season by defeating Dartmouth 53—14 at
the Y. M. C. A. gym. Saturday night —- — Our respect for Acadia
sportsmanship was given quite a boost over the week-end — —
Acadia Axemen basketball team defeated Liverpool All-Stars 41-21
at Wolfville — — The U. N. B. Brunswickian proclaims its hockey
team “invulnerable.” They defeated a team called the Devon “Dairy
Kings’”’ — — Woodstock defeated Mt. A. Varsity 65—64. Must have
been quite a game ___ — The same Mt. A. team showed tremendous
power as they defeated Moncton C. Y. O. 80—42,

 

Acadia Drops Dal 36-24 ©

In Listless Hoop Match

Dalhousie’s second start in the

 

the first five minutes of the period, Dal v-- their foul shooting,

ketball League turned out to be
a dismal one as the Tigers were
badly beaten by Acadia University, 36 to 24, at the Dal gym
last Saturday night. Played be-fore a packed-in crowd, the game
i: was a slow-moving contest that
yroduced littl really good bas~ kethall, The visiting Axemen
threw un a strong zone defence

 

eye:

ae trat completely befuddled the

’ ‘Tiers,

* Until the final six minutes of
2

the contest nowever, it was a3

extremely close game. But then

Dai, striving to tie the score, left

iself wide open, and Acadia

breezed through the last minutes
to win easily.

| The game started very slowly,

he, . and it was not until five minutes

; had been played that the firs:

, score of the contest materialized.

FS" - E. DeMont at that point drov~
: - in a set shot to put Acadia out in
front, 2—0. The rest of the firs’
half was nip and tuck with the
Axemen, on the strength of
White’s set shot, holding a 14-to
13 advantage at the intermission.
The second half saw the visit
ors open the lead to 23 to 18 in

   
    
  
  

narrowed the margin to 25—22,
with six minutes to play, but then
the Tigers, in their desperate
fcert to get moving, abandoned
the defense, and the Axemen put

together a string of five straight |

points to up the lead to 31—2z2.
“his clinched the game beyond all
coubt for wc Axemen. After
Seot Morrison »héd hit with a
pivot shot for the Tigers, Acadia
elosed the seoring with a run of
six straight markers. Just how
sturdy the Axemen’s defense was
is reflected .. ue fact that th.
Gold and Black could seore only
three field goals in the second
half, only one in the last fiiteen
minutes. |

The outstanding player of the
‘ontest was Acadia’s White. Nit
only did this star seore eight
poin’s to take second place in
the scoring parade but he also
was a towey of strength on de
fense besides playing a smart
floor game. The top scorer of
the fray was Acadia’s E. DeMont
with nine points. For the Tigers,
Morrison paced the attack with
seven markers.

(Continued on page eight)

a0

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

D.G.A.C.

By Bev. Huntingdon

 

Dal girls have swung right into sports this term, and are reaping rewards already. Badminton
tournaments are coming to the
end of the singles and have shown
a number of fine players, and
also many new at the game—
Marg. O'Neill, to mention one—

-who are making it tough for play
ers of long standing.

The basketball first and second
teams won at Edgehill last Saturday, triumphing over the Windsorites with the scores 42-15 and
30-3. The big game this week
takes place when the first team
battles it out with Acadia in the
Valley’s sparring ground on Saturday. The teams are good, and
show a remarkably high standard
of enthusiasm, but would probably do even better if they tried
to keep the ball moving faster,
and hereby catching opposing
teams off-balance oftener. Eileen
Landrigan has been chalking p
a record number of baskets, and
with Marg O’Neill forms one of
the first team’s most active menades to oppo@ tion forces. The
Dal 3 team met with reverses
when they were defeated by the
Convent and the Y.W.C.A. General feeling among the members
of the team is that no one really
cares how they do; however it’s
very much a false feeling, and
if some spectators would only
show up to cheer the team forward who knows what miracles
might be done! Dal 2 swept
King’s off in a 386-30 victory
Tuesday. night, and Dal 1 rode
down the Dal Grads to a 16-10
win. the following night. Basketball schedules for the following
two weeks are as follows:

Feb. 9—Dal 3 vs. King’s
Feb. 11__H.C.A. Grads vs Dal 1
Q\E.H. Grads vs Dal
Grads
Feb. 12—Y.W.C.A. vs Dal 2
Feb. 16—King’s vs. Dal 2
Feb. 17—Q.E.H. Grads vs. Dal 1
H.C.A. Grads vs. Dal
Grads
Feb. 19—Dal 3 vs. Y.W.C.A.
All games except the last one
are to be played in the Gym.—
the last one is at the Y.W.C.A.
Watch the noatice-boards for
a chance to sign up in badminton
doubles, and also ping-pong. Fox
ping-pong a good turnout is expected, and Shirreff Hall should
sign in full force if the use of
the Hall ping-pong is any criterion. If you are not a freshette,
soph., junior, etc., and would
still lke to play in the tournaments. see either your class representatiye or Holly Flemming.

DAL JUNIORS WIN
AGAINST Q.E.H.

The Dal Junior team turned
in iis most convincing performance since before Christmas last
Saturday night when they trounceded Q. E. H., 64 to 24, at the
Dal gym. Not only did the squad
untrack itself from the lethargy
it has heen in during the second
half of the campaign, but the
team functioned smoothly in
brushing aside the high school
outfit. Dal’s shooting, off in recent outings, was red hot in ‘his
contest, and when the team recovered from a slow start, the

(Continued on Page 8)

 

= _ S34 ¢ ere ™ oT Poe = ; a = it ae ea, > — oe
OS a ee Sra Et Lee Fae teen aoe ge Fie
Pei rere ee et med BON T Re irl i

ik ao

Friday, February 6, 1948

TIGERS TAKE ACADIA
IN HOCKEY THRILLER

i Ln nnn ESnn EERE

 

NOT SO PROUD: Shown above is Acadia goaltender Proud in one
of his more disillusioned moments. The Axeman netminder is gazing repentantly at a little black puck (arrow) which is resting
lazily in his own citadel, qhite comfortable now after its headlong
flight down the ice on Dalhousie sticks. Teddy Leblanc scored the
goal, but he is obscured by Acadia defenceman Walker as he rounds
the net. Paul Lee, who set up the goal, is on the extreme right.

 

The Dalhousie hockey Tigers won their first intercollegiate
start of the season at the Forum Saturday afternoon, as they eked
out a 4—3 win over the Acadia Axemen. Dalhousie undoubtedly had
the better hockey team, but the visitors were superioy on condition
and team-play.

From a Dalhousie point of view,
the first period was a night-mare.
Acadia seored three soft goals
without a reply from the gold
and black, and ended the period
with a 3-0 advantage. Tiger plays
weren’t clicking, the defence
looked weak at times, and Ron
Timothy in the Dal nets was far
from his best. The first goal was
scored by MacKenzie after Waiker’s pass, but the play should
have been broken up by the defence long before the Acadia forward got a chance to shoot. Moe
Smith made it 2—O on an assist

CO-ED DAYS !!

AND WHADDA YA KNOW

Jts Leap Year...

FEBRUARY 11, 12, 13, 1948

from MacFarlane several minutes
later. Dalhousie began to untrark
themselves somewhat later in the
period, but Bateman, after breaking up a Dal rush, took a shot on
which Timpthy allowed a lone
rebound, and Bryson Crowell,
as the puck landed on his stick,
sank a weak shot to the far corner. The shots in the period were
even, 8—8.

The Dalhousie team came out
for the second period with blood
in their collective eyes. and the

(Continued on page eight)

 

 

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 11 —
8—10:00 p. m. Bridge Party, Men’s Residence

10—12:00 p. m. Dancing
Dancing — 50c; Both — 75c

THURSDAY, FEB. 12 —

Until 10:00 p. m. Library
10:00—12:00 p. m. ‘Get Together,’ Shirreff
Hall — Bring Cakes.

FRIDAY, FEB. 13 — “O HAPPY DAY!”
9—1:00 Sadie Hawkin’s Dance, Gym, $1.25

Bring your own lunch boxes
Dress: Dogpatch style '
Corsages on sale at Dance.

 

NOTE: Dance programmes may be bought f
MacKinnon — Shirreff Hall and Else Cridchcheck.

Gals !! Dial Pine Hill 3-8576
Dal Men’ s Residence 3-9848
_ ‘King’s Men’s Residence 38-9602

<

 
 

ST. DUNSTAN’S SUFFER FIRST DEFEAT
AS TIGERS CAPTURE EXHIBITION GAME

 

Led by the spectacular play of Wee Willly Robertson the Dalhousie Tigers scored a significant exhibition hockey victory at the
Charlottetown Forum Tuesday night as they. defeated the reigning Maritime Champions St. Dunstan’s College 9-7. The play was
wide open throughout most of the game, with the goaltenders receiving little protection from their defences. Dalhousie outshot the home
team 47-45—an indication of the nature of the play.

The only goal of the first period was scored by MacDonald of
the home standing St. Dunstan’s
six, but it didn’t take the Dalhousie squad long to get underway in the second, A penalty to
Hennessey provided the Tigers
with openings for two goals by
Rosie MacMillan in less than a
minute, and the Tigers never re
linquished the lead. Before the

Red and white could regain their
equilibrium, Dalhousie had pumped in two unassisted goals by
Frazee and Jimmy Gray. Mac
“Donald got one back for his sec
ond goal of the night, but Gray
seored an unassisted marker at
11.50 to boost the score to 6-2.
However both Mahar and Houde
beat Leslie before Robertson finished the period, scoring with an

unassisted goal at 15.40.

Dalhousie scored two quick
goals within three minutes of the
opening whistle in the final frame
to boost their advantage to 8-4,
and although St. Dunstan’s came
close, this brace of markers decided the game. Blanchard and
MacDonald scored two goals for
St. Dunstan’s before the 10 min
ute mark had been reached, but

Leslie hung onto his lead until
the 19.02 mark when Willy Robertson sank Dalhousie’s. ninth
goal and sewed up the game.
MacDonald completed his four
goal splurge by scoring a superfluous goal for the Charlotte
tewners with only 27 seconds left,

‘Windy O’Neill couldn’t make
the trip, but Dal used Jimmy
uray, who is ineligible for intereollegiate competition. The defence was weakened by O’Neill's
absence, but the addition of Gray
bolstered the attack on the forWard line. Willy Robertson was
at his best before the hometown

supporters, who turned out more
than 2000 strong. Rosie MacMillan was a standout both on
the defence and the attack. Art
MacDonald seored four goals for
the St. Dunstan’s team, and was
one of the most dangerous men
on the ice.

SUMMARY

First Period;
1. $.D.U.— MacDonald (Mahar)
6.31
Penalty — none
Second Period;

2. DALHOUSIE -__ -MacMillan
(Robertson) 2.29
3. DALHOUSIE — MacMillan

(Lee, Gray) 3.12 }
4. DALHOUSIE—Frazeg 5.34
5. DALHOUSIE—Gray 8.14
6. S.D.U.—MacDonald (Hennessey) 10.10 .

7. DALHOUSIE—Gray 11.50

8. $.D.U.— Mahar (MacDonald)
12.08

9. S.D.U.— Houde (Blanchard)
14.26

10. DALHOUSIE — Robertson
15.40

 

Whatever your knowled ge

or college...

Here’s why Arrow is the shirt

for you:

4 1. Smooth, perfect-fitting Arrow
collar—the best made.
your popular collar styles.

2. Styled right, fits the form, no

bunching at the waist.

3. SANFORIZED labelled—
‘guaranteed never to shrink

out of fit,

See your nearest Arrow dealer for a new Arrow shirt.
And, to complement the shirt—an Arrow tie and an

Arrow handkerchief.

 

ARROW SHIRTS

| : “ ‘ | TIES ° HA NDKERCHIEFS

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
       
         
         
     
         
       
     
         
         
     
     
       
   
     

In

MARITIME CHAMPS 9-7

 

Penalty—Hennessey
Third Period;

11. DALHOUSIE — Robertson
(Lee) 0.45

12. DALHOUSIE—Lee (Robertson) 2,42

13. $.D.U.—Blanchard 5.15

14. $.D.U.—MiacDonald (Mahar,
Ledwell) 8.40

15. DALHOUSIE —
19.02

Robertson

16. $.D.U.—MacDonald (Houde)

19.33
Penalty—Rodgers

Q.E.H. Juveniles
Down Dalhousie

 

The Dal Juvenile team
looking for its first win
Halifax Juvenile League
ing its 27-to-12 setback
hands of the Q. E. H.
stringers at the Dal gym last
Saturday night. Working plays
fairly well besides stealing the
ball frequently, the visitors decided this contest with a string
of eight straight points at the
close of the first half. It broke
an 8-all tie and enabled the Lizzies to hold a 16-8 halftime advantage.

The second half was a runaway as the Tigers could score

is still
in the
followat the
second

only one ‘field goal and two
fouls in this period. Brown of

the winners was the top man in
garnering points, bagging ten as
well as playing a generally sound
game all around. Ian Morrison
topped Dal’s scorers.

The line-ups; Q. E. H, —
Brown 10, Robinson 6, Ells 4,
Sherman 2, MacCallum 2, Hills

2. .Kinley 1, Dingle, Cooper,
Woodworth. DAL—1. Morrison
8, R. MacKay 2, Sederis 2, Waller, Wolman, Goldman, Boniuk.

 

Dal Girls Defeat
Edgehill 42-15

Saturday saw Dalhousie Girl’s
Varsity basketball team journey
to Edgehill to play and win an
exhibition game 42-15. Despite
Edgehill plucky efforts, the more
experienced Dal players had a
definite edge on them in play.
Dal’s forwards displayed excellent
passing and it was Marg O’Neil
who chalked up the most points
for Dal, leading the scoring parade with 20 points. All the players turned in an excellent performance but Dal guard Betty
Petrie was particularly outstand
 

ing,

Dal: Forewards—Mareg O’Neil.
Pat Snuggs, Frannie Doane,
Biléen Landrigan.

Edgehill: Guards, Jan Cameron, Elsie Cruikshanks, Be-ty

Petrie, Verna Leonard and Lucy
Calp.

SEIS

 

 

°

The best indoor and outdoor

sporting equipment

is found at

THE SPORTS LODGE

86 GRANVILLE ST.

| “Play More — Live Longer’” |

 

PAGE FIVR®

INTERF AC NEWS

 

 

 

Bob be A
HOCKEY BASKETBALL
STANDINGS STANDINGS
“A” Section
Interfaculty Hockey Standings P WL Pts.
“A” Section Meds. BS. ees
PW bet GP GA Pte” «7 g ease
King’s BAY OAT 9 8 Comm. 3 1 2 2 ;
Law § 311 2514 7 Eng, $: (Oe
Meds. 672 3iD 9 6 4 “py” Section
Comm. 6 £3) f18' LT 3 P WL Pts.
Eng. 40° 48° a 21-10 A. & Se. a RT ea
“B” Section Dents 2 eee
PWLTGF GAPts — Pre-Meds. wi) Ceres
Pine Hill 431027 8 6 The above is only a record of
Pharmacy 42112019 5 regular league games and there
A. & Se. fe SO mee ie fore does not include exhibition
Dents 3030 5 28 0 which of course do not

The game which was played between Arts and Science last week
was thrown out and is to be played again at a later date.

 

PINE HILL 7
DENTISTRY 2

Only the superb work of Cal
Dexter in the Dentistry nets prevented Pine Hill from rolling up
a larger score as they vanquished
the teeth-pullers 7-2.

SUMMARY
First Period;

1. DENTS__J. MacDonald. 2.
PINE HiLL—MacKenzie (Weir’.
8. PINE HILL—Hamilton. 1.
PINE HILL—Hamilton.

Second Period;

5. PINE HILL — Smith. 6.
PINE HILL—Smith (MacLeod).
7. DENTS—1. MacDonald. 8.
PINE HILL—Semble. 9. PINE
HILL——-MacKenzie. penalties—
Smith, Peters.

Third Period;

Scoring—none

LS TT

LAW 8
COMMERCE 2
Law’s Interfac hockey team

defeated Commerce 8-2 at the
Arena in what was definitely a
grudge match. Churchill__Smith
was outstanding among the Lawmen.
SUMMARY

First Period;

1. LAW—MacDonald. 2. COMMERCE — MacCullough. penalty

* —Wilson.

Second Period;

3. LAW — _ Churchill—Smith
(Mercer). 4. COMMERCE —
MacCullough. 5. LAW—Churchill
—Smith (Wilson). 6. LAW —
Wilson (Morrisson).

Third Period;

7. LAW —Dunlop (Meldrum,
Yeats). 8. LAW — MacDonald
Harris. 9. Law — MacDonald
(Waterbury, Yates). 10. LAW—
Matheson.

 

PHARMACY 10
DENTISTRY 2

Sparked by Beer, Morris, Stallard and MacKinnon, Pharmacy
skated to a 10—2 victory over
Dents in a regular Interfac hockey game.

SUMMARY
First Period;

1. Pharmacy — Morris

2. Pharmacy — Stallard.

3. Pharmacy — Morris

4. Pharmacy — Morris (MacKinnon)

5. Pharmacy — MacKinnon,
(Bateman)

6. Pharmacy — MacKinnon,

(Morris, Stallard)

Second Period;

7. Dentistry —- Hemming

8. Pharmacy — Kline

9. Pharmacy — MacDonald
10. Pharmacy — Kline

11. Dentistry — Lunn

12. Pharmacy — MacKinnon,
(Stallard)

a eh ha ek ll lM Ld il

games
count with regards the league
standings. The lists published in
the Gazette last week included
exhibition games and was therefore incorrect. Two teams from
each section will qualify for the
playoffs.

 

LAW 38
COMMERCE 30

Led by Gord Hart, Pete Harrington, and Churchill-Smith | the
Lawyers handed Commerce their
second defeat of the season last
week. The game was closely contested all the way and the issue
was in doubt until the final
whistle.

Lineups: Law— Hart,10, Chur~
chill-Smith, #6; Eaton, Mathews,
Roddam; Grant; Wilson; Han~
ington 6; MacKelvie, 6; Davis.

Commerce: Ogilvie, 2; MceKen~
ny, 2; Kerr, Rogers 6; Morrow 3:
MacConnell, 2; Comeau, 2:
Creighton, 13; Kenty, MacMillan.

DENTISTRY 28
PRE-MEDS 24

In a slow, closely contested
basketball game last week Dents
beat the lowly Pre-Med team
28—24. Score at half time stood
at 14—10 for the losers but the
Dents came back slowly in the
second half and the final whistle
found them four points ahead of
the losers.

Line-ups:— Dents: McMurdo,8;
Carson 6; Mingo, Cook, Peters 4;
Bellevieu 2; Darcy 4; MacKenzie
4; Taylor, Banks, McKim.

Pre-Meds: Cruickshanks 2 Seaman 2; Hughes, Dauphinee w
MacCara 4; Beer, MacMillan 4;
Sarantos 5; Shaw.

Referee — D. Woodward.

 

 

KING’S 2
COMMERCE 1
King’s College stretched their

winning streak in Interfac com
_ petition to fouy straight games,

but it wasn’t Bliss Leslie’s fault;
the King’smen pumped 37 shots
at him, but he kept the Commerce citadel free of all but two.

King’s won 2—1.

SUMMARY
First period;

1. King’s —— Morrisson 2 King’s
— Harley (Read, Murphy).
Second period;

3. Commerce — McCullough
(Frederickson Crowell).

Third period;

Seoring __ none.

GAL PUCK CHASERS
FORMING TEAM

The first practice on Tuesday
proved that the girls are really
entheusiastic about hoekey ‘this
year. Twenty-four potential players tried out, but no conclusions
concerning the players have been.
drawn so far. Many of the girls
of the one-game, one-victory team

(Continued on page eight)

 

T
i : é é
te tiy hg ;_ a7 ey te
  
 
    
     

 

  
 

 

smoothly until the stubble on the
Jewer chin of the male members

‘Gs. These beards are too conceal
i Beard growing contest to be held at Dal. What

| panei lctae person proposed such an idea’ Have you
‘any idea what such a contest can do to the efficient

organization of this campus? ‘
Many years ago in the time of Cricket MeGosh

‘such a contest was started: It all seemed a harmless
prank until the second or third week’s growth of beard
_ appeared on many of the male members of the student

body. A few of the more pominent people realized that
all this tom-foolery was coming to a head and it would
have to be stopped. But first let me tell you why the

contest was discontinued.

‘Lectures totally disrupted ing but let someone answer at.”

The lectures had been running Silence. .

“How about you I am pointing
at? Answey the question and tell

of the class partly obscured their 3 M
me your name.

faces and began to grow downward. The scene in a lecture

“I’m Strong sir: I’ don’t know”
room was one of utter confusion. |

“How about you~: Mr..... ah...
“Mr, Jones, what is the fallacy Williams or is it Roberts?”
in this conclusion?”

“Me sir?”

“No! You over there with the
eurly moustache.”

“You mean me sir?”

“No. Two seats along in the
row behind you.”

“You mean me, sir?”

Silence.

“Forget the question. We will
go on with the lecture.”

Girls become Wary

The girls at the Hall had become very wary about going out
with one of these monstrosities.
How were they to tell whether

a
Book Review =
Who Owns Canada? by Watt Hugh McCollum
Woodsworth House Publishers. 50c.

“T don’t know what his name

;

 

ides a wealth of material concerning Can
ada’s largest corporations and the people behind them. It ares
to show that the 50 ‘big shots’, so called, are the real rulers o
the country. These people are named and their connection with
the various’ financial and industrial corporations outlined. . Between
them they hold 769 directorates in various public corporations with
assets totalling over 15 billion dollars. Over 15% of the total gross
assets are all Canadian corporations. Such companies as T. Eaton
Ltd., whose shares are not on the open market, and wholly owned
subsidiaries of American companies, such as Swift Canadian Ltd.
are not included.

e book then proceeds to particularize, and the figures given
ee. the 183 eee of the 10 Canadian chartered banks
are members of the boards of directors of companies which account
for 92% of the gross assets of all Canadian trust, loan and investment companies, 89% of all Canadian life insurance companies and
82% of all Canadian fire and general insurance companies. The
bank directors seem to loom large in the various industrial enterprises as well. The corporate set-up and directorship of all the
various branches of industry are enumerated, with particular emphasis always being put on the tremendous control held by a small
numbey of individuals over the economy of the country. A regional
eontrol of power is seen in so far as 27 o fthe 50 ‘big shots’ are
residents of Montreal, while Halifax has to ‘content’ itself with
2, Mr. G. MacGregor Mitchell and Mr. J. MacGregor Stewart. However, Mr. Stewart ranks second in the country in the number of
directorships held, his total being 35 and topped only by Mr. Arthur
Cross, who is a director of 38 corporations.

This short book prov

A chapter is devoted to combines, monopolies and various other
devices that tend to make a mockery of private enterprise. In conclusion a frank plea is made to the readey to work for the abolition
of the capitalistic sysem. The author points ont that he is not concerned with how good or how evil the big shots are. He maintains
that a system that can breed such inequalities cannot be patched
up and he looks for a co-operative commonwealth in which economic
democracy will take its place beside political, democracy.

There is bound to be a large degree of oversimplification in
such a short book as this, when one considers the ‘tremendous
scope of the author’s undertaking. For instance, although the 50
‘big shots’ do have a potential control over-a huge amount of wealth

iL does not follow that they are necessarily the wealthiest men in »

Canada. Again, the author fails to point out that, to a large extent,
corporation policy is determined by the management, and the directors merely give ‘rubber stamp’ approval. Nevertheless, the truth
of the matter is that these directors, so long as they hold office,
have potential control over the lives of millions of Canadians, and
are answerable only to other interested stockholders. Virtually all
the statistics used in this book are taken from the Financial Post
and the Dominion Bureau of Statistics, while some of the information has been gathered from various Royal Commission enquiries
and combined investigations. Therefore, there is fairly good reason
to suppose that the information is accurate.
G. S. Black

EDITOR’S NOTE:__Copies of this book can be bought from Gordon Black, Helen Powell or Vince Morrison, who can be contacted
through the Gazette if necessary. ,

gee. es ee? pe ee eed rae

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Ma.

\8eA of ReEAVEN|

 
   
     

they were going out with the
boy who had made the date or
another one? For a while there

was a rush of these bearded
wonders to the Hall and so many
of them appeared to take ont
other fellows’ girls that all girls
were forbidden to go out with a
Dal man. Since Dal had left off,
all the other colleges took over
and when the contest was finished and the shrubbery shorn off
the Dh&lhousians didn’t have fa
chance. There was a great consternation but since the exams
were coming up it soon quietened down and all was forgotten
until the next year.

Many meale missed

The Men’s Residence, with a
cafeteria usually serving staples
such as stew and sauerkraut, had
to cook up batches of soup and
other liquids fo, the bearded
barbarians. The food would get
stuck in the beards and of course
never come out owing to its colligative properties (See Chem 1
notes). Many of the patrons were
buying moustache cups and a
rack was installed for the purpose of storing them. Hence the
cafeteria took on the aspect of
a barbershop of the early 1900’s.

City fathers alarmed
The City of Halifax feared

a OS ee Sa

MAERGCATROYD WHAT

AND Sotomon's WIVES
: &

Haser us
Sscvet.a

*"’
;
4
j

  

  
   
   
  

is SovR

METHUSELAR's ACE

    
     
     
   
 
  
    
  
 
 
  

SN

<. BY RKO GAS Aad
ee Tg TQOBLE y
vey

Sense,
enone,

   

 
   

ae8 (vez 4 YG
at (uzy* +
Arts? + zAB
2
yu HF
L@& co
~~ ew
sy
aw

Pe
—_ c aa
Te ee) eat
>

  

  
 
 

that the beards were a result of
the recent Communist Campaign
and the newspapers came out
with violent head-lines telling of
the Red Peril and the menace of
the University to the peace as
a war was expected on the campus any day. All the anti-Conmmunistic parties in the Government sent represntatives up to
try and persuade the students to
keep away from the nasty “commies’’, Congratulations were
pouring in from the CCF and
Labor Progressives on their
triumph in the Maritimes. The
University was fin a sad state
when Munroe Day arrived and
all celebrations were dulled by
the fact that the beards were so
long that they prevented the
ecnsumption of any refreshing
beverages. Munroe Day was a
flop and even the winner of the
contest had little pleasure in
having his month’s stubble shorn
from its moorings

Since all this has happened the
contests of beard growing have
been banned but here again we
see this ugly monster rearing its
head on Studley. What will happen__only time can tell. Take
my warning and keep away from
this vile and filthy practice. By
the way, can you tell me where
T] can buy a bottle of hair grow2r
that works fast?

Fig 4

Friday February 6, 1948

Co-Ed News
And Views

To begin ‘with, about that
Edgehill basketball game — the
teams had a wonderful trip, and
won both games. Nice going, kids.

Shirreff Hall seems to be just
full of animals lately. Last Thursday, ag everyone was peacefully
eating dinner, a big black cocker
spaniel bounded into the dining
room, took a quick inventory of
the place, and settled down in
the middle of the floor. About
two minutes later, a cat that’s
been wandering around came
in... It took Margie over half an
hour to get them both out. Oh
well, excitement makes life interesting, they say.

The boner of the week was
pulled by Issie Russell, who, when
asked by Pete to get the Biology
of the Frog at the library, innocently asked the librarian for
“the Biography of the Frog.”
P.S.: Afterwards, she wanted to
possibly have

 

knew who could

written it.

The Wentworth ski ‘trip was
a big success, but.... the kids miscalculated the train schedule and
sat around Truro for five hours,
not getting in till 3.00 A.M. It
was fun while it lasted.

Three cheers for the boys at
Phi Rho! Has everyone seen those
lovely silver bracelets with the
flat crest that were given as
favours at their party? If not,
look around | and turn green with
envy at the gals who are sporting them.

This was mentioned before,
but anyway, get out your Students Directories (incidentally,
have you gone through one from
A to Z?)...Sadie Hawkin’s week
is next!!!

M. L. G.

 

NOTICE TO SOCIETIES

For all Societies desiring the
usual Gazette supplements the
dead line for arrangements will
be February the fourteenth (14)
This deadline will positively not
be extended. The heads of the
Societies or officiers whose responsibility the supplement is,
should contact the Editor’ in
Chief before this date and make
the appropriate arrangements.
We repeat, this deadline will not
be extended.

Friendly moment... have a Coke

ete) ae oe eae

rama

eel

en Me

ees

e r _ “i , |
2 Gio! aes

Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

 

COCA-COLA, LTD
HALIFAX

 
   

UNICORN SEES DEMOCRATIC PROCESS

‘ . *
“Quae cum ita sint, decernant improbi...”

Cicero.

_ The casual observer on Studley last week might
have seen a hasty figure tear around the corner of
the Men’s Residence and vanish into the distance towards the Arts Building. Behind him came what were
obviously angry Glum Clubbers, armed with spears
stolen from the props for H. M. S. Chamber-Pot, who
were after the Editor’s blood for his expose of the

Rowling scandal.

The Editor was about to

vanish

into the safety of the Arts Building and the Gazette
Office, where calm and serenity reign perpetually,
when a man stepped forth and shoved a paper into
his hand. The: Editor clutched it, thinking it- was another hot tip on some horrible intrigue, or maybe a
good bet, and vanished into the bowels of the building. Arriving at the office he examined it. It read,

on blotting paper :-
ee

‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

en & SCIENCE BROKE

Sherburne rain

The usually mild and lifeless Arts &
Science Society held a rather stormy session
in the Chem Theatre the other day. Bemoaning
the lack of funds in the treasury, the President of the Society, Bernal Sawyer made
a strong appeal for funds. Stating that the
dues were only one dollar for three or four
years that the member remains here, the President felt that if every one paid that amount,
financial worries would no longer hinder the
society’s functions. It was soon made plain

by members in attendance that there were

reasons why the dues were not paid, the chief
one being that many felt that the benefits
derived from membership in the society were
not worth a dollar. A pretty state of affairs
for what is potentially the largest society on
either campus! Nevertheless, it is the writer’s
feeling that in the light of past experience
there is some justification foy that complaint.

I think, howemer, that jeveryone knows
that until the executive has some funds to

work with, the society must remain what is
has been, an unwieldy and relatively profitless organization. On the other hand, if funds
permitted, the society could take an active
part in campus affairs. The one worthwhile
function of the society at present is that it
offers members of the Arts & Science Faculty the opportunity of recommending their
chosen candidates for the Students Council, to
the nominating committee, the present Students Council. This is, perhaps, sufficient to
arouse interest in the Society for a short
while in the Spring. To keep that interest
alive it is imperative that the Society offer to
its members benefits of a social nature. The
executive have made a great effort to revive
the Society. It remains with the members
at large to do their share.

At the present moment membership cards
are being printed and will be distributed as
soon as they are available. With a dollar from
each of its members the Arts & Science Society could easily outstrip any of its rivals
here at Studley or down at Forrest. It’s up
to us to choose foy ourselves.

 

 

Vote for BLOW for PRESIDENT!

pened to the wife, Jim?
As you can see, very little

The proceedings of a police
court case had been rather noisy

CONTRASTS AND CHOICES

‘ A firm stand cil Se Sui an =e oo and the magistrate determined to i ‘
A firm hand Sea el wane ca cas sain one: A higher percentage of i
everywhere.. they are barring news from me. pens are lightened by electricity

“The next person who interThought for the week:

Prof: What causes frustration?
Student: Two trains of thought
meeting on a one track mind.

“Oh well,’the Editor said. “Maybe it’ll pick up
ink.” And he went to the window to make faces at the
Glum Clubbers, who were engaged in waiting for him
outside with grim determination writ all over the

rupts,” he said sternly ,“will be in Norway than are farm-housem

‘ 9
put outside. in America.”

“Hurray!” shouted the prisoner.

 

countenances,

. The Unicorn, who entered
‘then, picked up the campaign
blotter, and asked who this Blow
character might be. They answered him at length, saying how
democracy had-arisen at Dalhousie, in accordance with the
authentic tradition in western
Universities, and how every year
picked men stood for election to
the Council, and how once a year
the big election was held, when
the stoodents went out to vote,
on secret ballots. The . Unicorn
said that this was new since his

day, ' ahd ° _went forth, to investi
gate.°

His first port of call was. an
open meeting of the Arts and
Science Society with fully 9%
of the members in attendance.
Chairman Sawright was having
trouble with the Hall girls, who
had found out about the meeting by accident. They wanted to
nominate ons of their number
who, they thought, was simply
gra-a-and.

“Look, girls,” he was saying,
“we must do this properly or
people will think that we railroad our men in, I will open the
nominations for President in the
proper manner. Everybody may
make nominations until a motion

’ from the floor calls for the ces
sation of further nominations, I
nominate R. X. MeGooney for
President.”

~smoked herring, and

own stoodent days in Vienna.”

And he ‘went to look for more.

In the Law School he encountered C. Hamstrung Psmith, an
authority in the Law Society,
who informed him of the fact
that Democracy was a fine institution, a ndfully recognised by the
Law School as proper and founded on sound authority. Except,
Psmith remarked. bitterly, in the
Moot Court, where their Lordships did not know the differenee between a contract and a
infringed
upon the liberties of the subject

in a manner that was a flagrant
breach of the Law. He had,

_ Psmith continued, examined good
authority on the matter and had
reached the conclusion that he

had a good basis for an action

of trespass to the person... and

at this point the Unicorn left.
He assumed that the Law Society would have elections sometime, and intended to attend, and
enjoy himself in contemplation
of the greatest boon ever conferred upon stoodents:
eracy.

demo
 

Dents

Another week has slipped by
and the engines and the forceps

      

fetes a stcaed SMBS NTT Lk
- oF; : ek >, i 40-85

Caer

b McGooney leapt to his feet, have been kept busy at the dent
: eyes alight with democratic 4! department. The second years
fervour, and moved that nomin- ‘plain about their patho- :
a ‘ . logy (a snap course). The third bas ah :

| ation cease. aaa * ‘ d for the fraternity!"
yt “Motion carried,” cried Saw- *@rs are trying to make their | | eer a .
| Tay. right. He then called for nomin- ridges fit, Sem the fourth “Perfection ... check! Let's make our . ‘
| ations for Vice-President, open- Years are to busy to have any ‘ . ; ”
' jie the’ Aigeet tes? dabalnations; | trouble. opening bid with a Sweet Cap.”
i) McGooney rose to his feet quick- There is talk of choosing a
iy Li : “Munroe day queen” for our so- o
hon { nominate G. B. Sawright, ciety Of course she must have 4

   
  
 
   
  
  
    
 
      
 
 
 

Prince Mattersick, with whose
ewes eame into contact in my _

eminent parliamentarian and administrator. I am of the opinion
that we need no more nominat
jens; we have the most able can- ©

dida

Whereupon the sturdy 9%
cheered loudly, and it was announced that the Arts and

Seience had nominated unanim- 
ously and by acclamation its

eandidates for Pres. and Vice- °

Pres.
“Excellent, ” said the Unicorn.
“Their method reminds me of

nice teeth and a pleasant smile.
So remember femmes at Shirreff
Hall: when you meet a Dent
student let him have a molar to
molar smile so that he can get
a geod glimpse of your dental
apparatus. (Looks, personality,
figure, ete will also be considered).

Congratulations to the dent
basketball team. They gained
their first victory over the PreMeds. Niece going McMurdo.

Was Jim Darcey at the basketball game ie r What hap
SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

Zale et. St et ale bys, Lamers ee Seo ey Tet te et

 
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Friday, February 6, 1948

There is a possibility of a game

ACADIA- 36, DAL- 24

(Continued from Page 4)

 

 

Ticers Take Acadia ...

| (Continued from page 4)

 

penalties—Bateman (interfer
GAL PUCKSTERS.

(Continued from page 5)

 

 

 

with the Maritime Tel & Tel
girls on Sat., so watch the notice boards. You won’t want to

: The line-ups;— miss this game.
bs , ACADIA (386) score was tied, 3—3, within ten For Dalhousie, Willy Robertson of Jast year, including fast-skat2 fig. f. T.P. minutes. Knickle, Leblanc and was far and away the outstanding jing Nancy Jones, Pat Snuggs,
E. DeMont 2 Onin: D Lee combined to score the first figure on the ite. Paul Lee played Tippy Jodrey, Tommy Tompkins,
L. White 8 2 8 ‘goal, just as the lines were chang- an effective game, and Rosie Ware O'Neill and Rosemary
R. DeMont . eae 8 ing, and it was one of the nicest* MacMillan was a tower of pjount were showing real stickIrvine Bie ee plays of the game. Lee sank the strength on defence. And in the handling ability. Eileen LandriMacNeil Be Pe Ne next one a few minutes later, as last two periods Ron Gwynne gan, Ruth Bulmer, and Marg
MacPherson ied 5 MacMillan set him up after a fine Timothy was the most valuable fustace also proved they were
Komoski FOB rush by Robertson had started member of the team. For Acadia, fgmiliar with the hockey stick.
| Cameron ene NG the play. With the crowd yelling Kid . Crowell, MacFarlane and
Hart SoD for more, the Tigers poured it on goaltender Proud were the pick A Complete
Wickwire rn and were rewarded with the tying of a very evenly balanced, smooth
Fi ve ateean ape goal just as the midway mark of working hockey team. PHOTOGRAPHIC
Ms 14 8 86 the period was reached. Willy SUMMARY SERVICE...
s -  -DALHOUSIB (24) Robertson made a_ spectacular First Period; @ SUPPLIES
r Fae Sak rush, passed to Windy O’Neill in) 1. ACADIA — MacKenzie @ EQUIPMMENT
Morrison em gee front of the goal, and Thomas (Walker) @ REPAIRS
Gossac Spo he rr adeno uiistake. | 2. ACADIA — Smith (MacFar- @ ASSISTANCE
Connolly TE ae The desperate Axemen, how- lane)
Woodward Bk e ever, succeeded in slowing down 3. ACADIA __ Crowell (Bate- the
oe emer the Dal attack before any further man) CAMERA SHOP
eietion i x ; damage was done. During this penalties a yt Robertson (hold- of the Maritimes Ltd_
Tanner Oo Gnd ‘od. and the latter part par- ing), MacMillan (kneeing) e
4 Shaw BS Bit Sy r Ron Gwynne Timothy Second Period; 26 BLOWERS ST. — 3-8524 os q * ie
. D. Rogers 0 0 0 a tower of strensth in the 4- DAL—Leblanc (Knickle, Lee) =o sa
MacDonald 0 0 0 Dal cage and after the score was 5. Sa ae Lee (MacMillan, « } igs ie | ei 5
Picts inras) tied, he hung to the tie in super- opertson ae: | bib ‘
er ae lative fashion. Dalhousie outshot © DAL — O'Neill (Robertson, DANCE PROGRAMS “EXPORT”
the Axemen 17—11 in this per- Lee) i}

 

i,
it
i
5
iy
fi
i
:

ete te

~

MAILBOX...

(Continued from Page 2)

 

perhaps Henry Morgenthau:
“Zionism is the most stupendous
fallacy in Jewish history. It is
wrong in principal and imposSible of realization; it is unsound
in its economics, fantastical] in
its politics and sterile in its religions ideals.” There are hosts
of others.

With regard to the original
article, “Well Done, U.N.B.” in
which the author stated that the
“main cause of the trouble in
the Holy Land is that of racial
discrimination.”

jHow many people know the
articles of the Constitution of
the Jewish Agency? For example, Article 3: “... in all projects
and enterprises undertaken by
the Jewish Agency the principle
is to employ Jewish man power.”

Article 23: “‘..the utilizathon
of non-Jewish manpower will be
permissable only if an indemnity of 10 Palestine pounds is
paid for each infractior.”

As a result of this racial dis
’ ¢rimination the class of landless

Arabs has increased to alarming
proportions.

Can any of you sincerely deny
that the facts have been distorted to an alarming extent to the
disadvantage of the Arabs? can
any of you sincerely deny that
the Arab is, as I pointed out two

 

iod.

As the third period wore on
the tension mounted. Both goaltenders were scaling the heights
as they kicked out all sorts of
rubber, and the play was from
end to end with lightening rapidity. The Dalhousie defence was
playing superlative hockey, and
the forward line of Lee, Robertson and Knickle was gaining in
effectiveness each time it appeared on the ice. However, the Aeadia forwards were better balanced and the Dalhousie second
and third lines were seldom up
to the performance of the men
they were checking. Finally, with
pbout six minutes left in the
game Willy Robertson took a
pass from Lee in his own zone
and rushed down the ice through
the entire Acadian team. Willy
skirted the defence, and just as
he was about parallel with Proud
in the Axeman goal, he shot. The
puck whistled behind Prond, and
bulged the twiges on thb far
side of the net. It was a beautiful narrow-angle shot, and it won
the game. Acadia outshot Dal in
this period 13—11.

Q.E.H. - DAL

(Continued from Page 4)

 

game developed into a_ rout,
especially in the second half
when the Gold and Black hit for

ence), Walker (tripping)
Third Period;
7. DAL—Robertson

Co-ed Gazette
Next Friday

Next Friday the annual Coed issue of the Gazette will appear on Dalhousie news stands.
The issue, under the capable direction of Mayy Golburgh, will
contain news of all phrases of
Co-ed life on the campus. The
pages which the girl’s are preparing will also carry pictures of
certain Co-ed groups, along with
stories on Sadie Hawkin’s Day
calculated to terrify the male
members of the student body.

A. MacKay
Elected Frosh

President

 

 

On Thursday, Feb.5., the freshman class held its annual elections in the Chemistry Theatre.
The class unaminously elected
Andrew MacKay as President,
while Jan Robertson became

 

   

Our new line of dance pro
grams is smart and different.

Committees will find new

ideas — but not expensive.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

American Gem Society
Registered Jeweller,
Halifax, N. 8.

OLS.

_-_ Terese
=o emer a = 
“DANCING [mete 7
Ps ° ee 8 3

SATURDAY Reta
NIGHT” Bes

HALIFAX

“‘Don Warner
Orchestra’”’

9 p.m. to midnight
$3.00 per couple
Supper optional

Oxford Theatre

 

 

 

 

CANADA'S FINEST.
CIGARETTE |

THE
GREEN LANTERN
RESTAURANT

‘The sign of a good meal’

     
   
        
   
     

  

dress wear, fer around
campue er attending soci
functions.

We cordially invite you ¢
pay we a visit- We present
lincee as “Hart”, “Slater”
“Murray” and “Ritchie”.

SHANE’S
Shoe Store

397 Barrington St., Malifax

  

  

 

eases A 42 points while holding the op- Vice-President, and “Dipe’’ Marsae eo wee position to a mere ten. hall is the new Secretary Treas. MT. W Cor sages
Yours The game started out fairly Andy MacKay, son of Profes- Tey OE
LV. Blofield evenly, and for the first ten sor MacKay, former member of The. Homestretch A “Colonial” Corsage de.
minutes the game resembled a the Dalhousie Faculty, returned ike ae oa ied ek Roe roca a
contest. But the Tigers then be- to Halifax this year after an ab- — gee ee
THEY WENT gan to solve a ae attack sense of three years. On his en- of teneernans And. 1970.
TOGETHER and drove in repeatedly for easy trance to this college, he gained T. F. 8.

 

I stood by a road

along which humanity travelled.

The weak were there, and the
powerful,

the rich and the poor,

The good and the bad.

All travelling the same road

And all going the same way.

Yet the powerful helped not the
weak

When they were in distress.

And the good disdained the bad

And the rich saw not the poor,

Although they were side by side.

I stood by a road

Along which humanity travelled.

And there were neither rich nor
poor .

Good nor bad

Weak nor powerful

All were simple folk,

layups. The score at halftime
stood at 22-14 in favor of the
victors. Afters the intermission,
the Tigers really began to go,
and with Jimmie Mahon and Dee
Shaw dropping in markers with
rapid-fire consistency, the Lizzies were completely at a loss
as to what to do.

Mahon paced the scorers with
25 points while Shaw took second
honors with 18 points, 12 in the
second half. Ed Smith topped the
ksers with 12 markers, and was
the only player for the Tri--Colors who seemed to know what
te do with the ball.

The line-ups:- DAL — Mahon
25, Shaw 18, MacDonald 11, A.

immediate popularity and is sure
to become one of the leaders in
campus activity.

Sadie
Hawkins
_ Day,

 

Friday,

 

Fieeta

Adventures of Don Coyote

CASINO

Starting Saturday, Feb. 7th.
HER HUSBAND’S AFFAIRS
with

LUCILLE BALL

     

NURSERIES: Limited -..
ARRINGTON /T: HALIFAX

 

Dal Students —

A welcome awaits you at

456 Barrington Street,

Where you will find A

ginsla. | MacKay 8, Beckett 2, Tanner. F b complete Music Service
yet possessed of the knowledge Marshall, Gossac. S. Morrison, e ruary & and the finest
of Eternity McConnell. Q. E. H.—E. Smith’ |

And as they went down the road
They went together,

Hand in hand. ent
Ben O’Brien.

Ets Ae cd
Apt: cyanea ened’, rh > Sanne yr ~ + Rok! wa
Ce ee Se Sea ee

12, Robertson 4, Fancy 6. Wournell 4, Rogers, Crain, Lane, A.
Smith, Drysdale.

13

 

FRANCHOT TONE

Sports Equipment.

 

 
