 
  

    
    

= ar

¥

 

es

 

— — — See Sports

 

 

 

Nel. 79

 

 

- Students First

 

In Atomic Era

OT
“You are the first generation of the atomic age,” said Dr. A.

E. Kerr, B. A., B. D., D. D., Ll. D., president of Dalhousie University,
_ yesterday Lace etch. as i welcomed students to the university at

 

 

 

 

 

 

@

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17

TIGER TWINS TAKE THREE

PETE FERON

 

AZETTE

7

 

   
 
  

ht ote ” taa@ a
pe 7 o Sa -_ j
oe ae Ta” eee eos 7
cre eee figs re RT re om
~ o Af AG e is eet “4 Vv © etre 7
J - 4 35 a ar SPs = pul? &

DAL AND
ACADIA
SATURDAY

 

— — — See Sports

 

NO. 3

 

 

Show Power In

Weekend Games

The Gold and Black colors of Dalhousie were flying high Saturday afternoon as two Dalhousie teams won their games and took

over leadership of their respective leagues.

The Tiger’s entry 1m

the Halifax Canadian Football League remained undefeated at

 

 

 

 

a

+ ee

oe

% ae Sk :

 

 

 

«ag meeting in the Gymnasium. “We live at the dawn of atomic so- Redlands Park as they crushed ” hapless Wanderers team 27—01
ciety,” he said, “an age of indescribable speed” At Studley field, the Intermediate English-Rugby entry proved too
. ; strong for the Kng’s College team, turning them back by a 6—0
) ; ae vate ns c ee oe margin.
grasped what can be learned here Seven plays after the opening”
at Dalhousie, you will go out to KEN REARDON BOB WILSON whistle at Redlands ab io
live a good life, and to exert a Tigers’ 150 pound halfback Peti good influence on those around er Feron, kicked a 33-yard field
i mM sou? goal, for three points. From there 4
Describing a university as “a Little Man Has Busy Day — on it was Dalhousie’s game, but |
fellowship of students and teach- Peter Feron (above) 150-pound 1700 wildly-cheering spectators.
ers, interested in the discovery fectball player and Dalhousie stayed on to watch the razzleof new and old learning,” Dr. freshman, turned in a stellar dazzle antics of Bill Burkhart’s.
Kerr said that the university game for the Gold and Black ‘mooth-running team. Time after
“has made an incalculable con- Saturday, when he scored 14 time, the crowd came to their
iF tribution to civilization.” peints against Wanderers as Dal- feet as the Tigers pulled out all
While the pursuit of learning housie won, 27—0. the stops, and played a wide- is
| is the main purpose of the un- open, hard running game. Big: \
| iversity, students should take a scorer for the Tigers was Peter
oe oer Pathe, Mey eee SAYS DIRECTORY Feron> who garnered 14 points. — f
ra-curricular activities and stu- two touchdowns, one field goal, ‘
dent organizations. WILL BE OUT IN und one congert. Othe ee |
m:, The president said that he had EARLY NOVEMBER were Bob Wilson and Kenny “
every confidence in the various Reardon.
branches of student activity. ak . At Studley field, keen rivalry,
“While my ideals for the univer- Rabhed — Kenny Reardon, ies Ioiecawabed ‘epusarance 7 Erica aniceal gages RPM, eather than skill, was the order
. sity have been high, those of the swivel-hipped halfback, scored of the 1947-48 Students Direct- bana Ses Bae ie 1h 5 23, (OE a AS Haws side
“student organizations have been i ; Hast ory will not take place until early DOSE A strength for the Tig- ayer. the lead of the City Interhigher—I have never been forced 7° touchdown-and was robbed Pree elites gp ahaa hae ers Saturday afternoon as they mediate Rugby league, defeating
to prod the students’ council.” of another in Saturday’s game susavding ye Hace iwde: Weiee pounced on the unsuspecting the Kingsmen 6—0. Rosie MacCol. KC. Laurie, D. C. _L., against wanderers. He was in president of the council of stu-. €@ters of the Red and Black. Millan and Robertson were the:
Chairman of the Board of Gov- paydirt when the final whistle dérits, and director of the Dir- His ‘smashes through the line point-getters for the Tigers, with
ernors of Dalhonsie University lisesi) Ny’ Georé’ <> ‘he etepped > ectory for this year. were just whet the doctor order- Quigley and McEwan turning im
¥ spoke brieflv. welcoming the stu- : | ed, and his touchdown was a_ fine performances.
dents on behalf of the governing ©" eet ses ae a CeDRRCd Final tabulation of registrat- thing of beauty. —— — See Sports
¥ body. that last chalk stripe. ion figures has just been released,
| and at the present time a public e !
° 5 stenographer is hard at work pre- New Brunswick Football
5 Charlie Barnet S Band paring alphabetical lists of stu- 9
. ; dents, names, Halifax addresses, L T Ch ll g D j
* home addresses, faculty, year and eam Oo a en © a : 4
To Play At Dalhousie —most important of all—tele- |
| phone numbers, Enthusiasm in Canadian foot- Monday nght’s sportscast from: |
The Directory this year will ball 1s mounting through the . Moncton radio staton claimed® {
eo . : : > Martime provinces, and after Sat- the calibre of play between the:
| Plans for a dance to celebrate eral public being held one or two not feature the articles on campus urday’s game at Memracook, N. twe teams was at least the equal’
the Royal wedding were approved days before dance night, organizations, and the statements B.. when St Joseph’s College of that in the Halifax CCity Lea-by the Dalhousie students council The final decision is, or at least by association heads. The Stu- pea ed Moncton Tigers 71—0, gue, and sad Halifax teams wouldi
| last week, after publicity director was, up to the Dental Society, dents Council decided this spring Moncton sportsmen are drumm- be approached for an exhibition |
“4 Art Mears presented a report, who were slated to hold a dance that, in view of the increased el Ga nGESABE EW a proposed tik”. werion. |
stating that Charlie Barnet and Pree about Nov. 6. Council put cost of newsprint, service char- jotween St. Joseph’s and either The game came as a complete 4
his nationally-known band could it up to them to hold a meeting ees, and larger enrollment, the our own Dal Tigers or St. Mary’s. surprise to sports followers.
«be brought to Halifax for a com- and decide whether or not they Directory would carry only the The Blue Eagles operating out throughout the Maritimes. St,
L prratively small guarantee, would be willing to hold their cwnstitutions of the various stu- i et tae Nas ; Josenh’s .
: : : ; ; of a modified T-formation ran pAhs sent na representative to
Vv Council approval was given to dance in conjunction with the dent bodies and the actual direc- back the opening kickoff for a ast month’s athletic meeting at,
AE: fy ans Mears Plan, os ore - ' Barnet effort. tory data. ltdaug d a3 ae 4 almost. at. Truro of colleges frank thin: tine:
th ici i alhotusi
Py Gnerswi be silo fo nee and ora gues amine mate, TMS ETNAT pot of the hook is wil after tat They have an Stele provinces and i wan
dance to Mr. Barnet’s rhythm at ed in the next edition of your already punted and only the experienced line made up of a come ; xf os sporting acitvity
es a toe-crusher in he held Nov. 6 in Ganeee  Dulrently ‘hele ‘augeled names and pertinent information majority of American students at : a : institution was dead for
: Wee the Gymnasium, is a scheme to hold the dance the 7° left to be set up. For the im- the school, and a lightening-fast his year. Because of this fact,

A limited number of tickets are

te be sold. First sale will be to

 

nts, a a sale for the gen
night before the
honusie game.

McGill-Dal
   

patient student, Mr Rhude advises that the Shirreff Hall telephone number is 3-9746.

- 4 : _ . ——

backfield featuring two lads who
take to the air after the manner
of Joe Krol.

Fe TC eam

the Moncton TVigers had ruled
heavy pre-game favorites to cop
the Saturday contest,

Oni tS Pen ae eS ee Se

 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
    
 
 
    
   
  
    
 
   
   
   
   

, r, : ey hrs
f sates F P ae a
ia Poet ee Moke ae eo
FER UP RE Oty Ay OPA ee
ic : 7 on pina eer
HO ys at Was Aes ech eh rs at ak Sa ae
re - = a i eax ake ale Wy LC A ;
(fi Rk a Lx ae i 7 - par hg i ’
mya aot i atta a an 3 h :
its Be fa per er age perry. tryed .
e ye wt } ; ee , ee re ; SY ee Baa Ae (he,
; i if A ai a aa =.
ne ai aa : , aay a
x ie. awe a Z a . ,
erage ya . f
’ + - j 5 <> tay ~ nam, ae
be ox os iba ry a i nih ! / y . Kee * }
T ery Pete bens as s_ “ts EY a eos D “ ame ; Lene /
a ‘ :
| le _ i” = Al ia = S
1 fe

W MILLER par een:
Business Manager
AL..RUBIN
PA; = Searts’ ss Features —
BOB TUCK ART MOREIRA

KARL WEBBER
CLAIR KNIGHT.

_ KEN PHELPS
ee U. P. Editor

‘JOHN TRIM
AL LOMAS Vea ig) Ass’t Business Mgr.
Circulation Manager ROBIN MacLEAN
JAN THOMAS
Dp ga Co-ed Sports
D. SADOFSKY RENY FISHER
Proof Readers Re-write Staff

SOMERS PRIKLER
DON WALLER | NOELLE BARTER
JOHN PARKER MARJ GOLDBERG

pee: or ae. AND “peel abies THIS WEEK

ANNE PECKHAM

FRIDAY, OCTOBER” 17 No. 3

~ THANKSGIVING

( ei easy ‘to ignore that which we do not experience or see; and,
ot other Rarts of ane world, we may well pase many SHEN

Serge with those of others about us. Our outlook on
: e, therefore, depends on our individual scales of comparison. Hal' ig ee ra possibly the highest rate of unemployment in

jon ans. iddibinin too aiiatts aes should compare their fives with
' 2 of the citizens of such cities as Tel Aviv.

en wien” we think only in - Uheriae of Nova Scotia, or Canada, or
even the British Commonwealth. The world is the common parent
e 0 7 man, and individual man should recognize his part in the global
: CS mites

“s We, in Canada, are inclined to be forgetful and complacent,
_ sfor ours.is a wealthy and healthy country. As students and Canve es ae dians_ we should give thought to less fortunate parts of the world,
it) Bs eae and thanks, that by the haphazard nature of birth we were given
Z ae nada. Let us, in this season of Thanksgiving, hope that man
thi roughout the world will accept a broader scale of vision; and let
a us, for our part, be mindful of, and ever-ready to promote, the privtas a) poner and freedom of which we, in Canada, partake.

INTERMEDIATE TIGERS |

One of the finest Gold and Black Teams to take to the field
ae recent years is this year’s English rugby squad. With triumphs
in their first two games the plucky Tigers, coached by Bev Piers,
er captained by Gord Hart, although not over-confident, look forward to an outstanding year.

%

‘Their initial successes may be attributed mainly to the fact
, oy ie that every player has starred in team-play. Individual play, as well
, “8 being selfish, is definitely out of place on the playing field, and
_yet year after year teams meet defeat because of one or two -players trying to hog the glory. Having learned this lesson early, the Inoe __ termediate Tigers should be mighty challengers for the McCurdy
re Bias _ Cup at the end of the season.

aoe Rh The Gazette takes pleasure in congratulating this splendid team
: aie a not only for its initial victories, but also for the fine show of teamae oe ee courage, and determination.

ADS FOR GOAL POSTS

Wf Last week a rugby player lost his footing after a brilliant disa te of Paoken-tield ranning, and plunged headlong into one of the

Ov

sf bat Pp.
Sed ,

.3
ee
at”

eh ae hall 1 happen again at Studley, possibly next month; and possibly
bis eee ‘the next player might not be fortunate. It may be said that it is not
Bese» traditional to have such padding; but is tradition worth the life of
' ne . one e of our students?

mies: sa The GAZETTE wants protection for the players.

 

another Gun Powder Plot.

I also do not think the GAZETTE justified in naming one
person as the proverbial Guy
Fawkes. If the GAZETTE must
make everything sound spectacular and capable of fairly shaking the earth, then it ought to
refrain from singling out one
person as the fuselighter.

re “dinner oar att
Re pee: iby. the

te Ha be conITT : into

ii

a wey en Ns Te
5 ioe aati a a ae
oly = nines rik face 3. hi

. q hk
i in~ J, a, as ah. F .
st aS Pe 7. SS oh “ a : “AR
7 sP ‘ae 4 i a pe iy wi emi. ev! f i

 

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

In closing, I would like to. assure all readers of the article
that the Hall is not a den of dissatisfaction. I hope that the ideas
expressed in last week’s GAZETTE will be taken seriously by
the author only.

Yours truly,
Louise H. Jodrey.
Rec hee RE ob

Dear Sir:

I feel, as do many other
girls at the Hall, that the article
for the meals at Sherriff Hall
directs an absolutely unecessary
remark at Miss Mowat, our new
matron, “Habitually distinguished from the others by the presence of a bowl of flowers.”

She is a favourite, without
exception, among all the girls at
the Hall, and is doing all possible
to fill her positon capably.

--- She’s tops.
, Sincerely,
Noelle Barter,
* * J * oo

Edtorial Comment:

The GAZETTE regrets this
misunderstanding. No offence
was intended. Our opinion of
Miss Mowat was clearly stated
in the first issue. We reiterate,

' “She’s tops.”
/ es s & &
Note:- From the number of

letters commenting on the recent
editoral, “DEMOCRACY VS
(Continued on page 8)

 

 

y See. ae os atti =" ip og i
iw 7 i la i a an ih fe a ay ¢. oe ,
es : The . : : *
PeNmeaMer en. Pores At <r. CR oe ane
~~ te ee A of ‘ a ' ne
~ eh aN Pee j : P ¢ j ’ 7 , cf :
ya ie “Fo
* 7 c 4. t% et 4 ¥ y
*~
cf
=
‘
Se es
. =
4% ”
B & ° Me
Ay A a *
. <p
" e ‘ti oo if nig
ae eye
Oe

“There's a good type for the fraternity!"
us “Perfection . . . check!
opening bid with a Sweet Cap.”

Let’s make our ae

 

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction
bier hie;
Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts

Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Musie
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science Mining Geology

Pre-Professional Courses
oes Se
Honour and Advancéd Courses in many departments
in the B. Se. course about $210.00 a year
in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held ig
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.
The Professional Faculties
ee iaesSasecemesee* y

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees

 

Residences

Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s

Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men

in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes.

Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service ©

students,

Meals for all students are available at the University. .
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR.

ee Sees
Toronto Varsity Blues rolled

to their second straight decisive
trumph over the not so husky
University of Saskatchewan Huskies on Saturday Oct. 4 at Saskateon.

_——— ee

 
  
   
 

TEA ROOM
| Commonly known as JOE’S
250 Quinpool Road
| HALIFAX, N. §.

  

The score was 41—®,

q ie
eee Se ee 6 eee et

>

p>

 
 
    

+e

“ws


vv De

i

i,

 

 

 

Giz

Belt

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

HALIFAX, N. S. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1947

F damnation OF Dalhousie

Pipe Band

Music to the ear of every Nova
Scotian is the banshee wail of the
bagpipes, accompanied by the ry
thmic beat of highland drum
mers. New Scotland — land of 
Gaelic Mods,
Scottish culture.

Feeling that the majority of
Dalhousians are of Scottish ancestory, and the remainder partiel to pipes the announcement
w: made last week that effort.
to organize a pipe band on Studley Campus are underway, Heading up the scheme is Vince Morrison, law student, who makes his
summer home in the highlands o!
Cape Breton,

Although the plan is still in ‘s
embryo stage, six campus pipers

highland games,

have been uncovered, and these,

eugmented by the powerful brass
band percussion battery, should
uncover others within the n2xt
few weeks.

Pipe major of the newborn
band will be “Piper” MacMillan,
Cathedral Barracks, who carried
away the best amateur piper award at the Antigonish Highland
Games this year and similar awards at the St. Anne’s annual
Gaelic Mod in Cape Breton.

Pipers include Phi Delt Don
MacLeod, D. Simms, of Pine Hill
Men’s Residence, and the kilted
Kingsmen, Sinclair and Burchill.
Geerge © (McBagpipes) Burchill

will be remembered by last year’s
students as the mysterious figure
who sent moans and wails soaring
across the moors of Studley.

*

Is Announced

Flying Club
Formed At

Dalhousie

, Inspired, perhaps. by the results achieved by the Dalhousie
Canadian football team in taking
to the air last Saturday, a group
of students announced this week
that a Dalhousie Flying Club is
to be organized. Former members of the R, C. A. F, those interested in flying, including students holding private licenses, and
those working for licenses are
expected to join the club.

Instructions will be given at
the Halifax Flying Club, undcr
the supervision of Max Cameron Transport to and from the
Waverley site of the club is to
be provided. Two Piper Cub -aircraft, and an Aeronca Chief
plane, are available for instruction purposes.

Instruction periods will be
spread over four to six months.
Average instruction time needed
before a pilot solos is only six
hours, and many students have
done it in a shorter. time. Requirements are good health, caution, and the will to fly.

Beat Acadia

 

 

 

 

MASS RADIOGRAPHY

— x Rays

 

In Duplex Gym Store Sales
Students In Favour Of Split

STUDENTS IN FAVOR OF Split

If new accomodation is provided for the. Gym store, student
opinion is that books should not
be sold in the same room with
lunches, cokes and peanut butter
sandwiches, according to a poll
conducted by Patsy Pigot, Gaz
_ ette researcher.

Twelve students said the sale
of books should be separate, seven said they should be sold with
the oe and one co-ed said

the Gym store should stay where
it is— “That is its charm,” she
said, “the intimacy of the surroundings.”’

Advocating a split in the sales,
Jane Rogers said, “it isn’ very
pleasant to have to buy a fairly
expensive text-book while some

' @af dribbles peanut butter and

chocolate milk all over its pages.”

Others offered no explanation
for their opinion, just said, “they
must be divided.”

USIE BAND RECEIVES

GOLD AND BLACK BRASS — Efforts of Dalhousie’s

 

  

PRAI

brass band,

ath

’ Me af
A Se

 

 

 

shown above, has received muelr

favorable comment from observers. Their work at f,otball games and the initiation parade was excellent, and students look forward to a banner year for the band, which of late years has been regard
ed only as a necessary evil.

 

Tea Dance To
Bz Held In

Commen Room

Immediately following tomorrow afternoon’s English rugby
e> hibition, at Studley Field, when
Dal meets Acadia and King’s
tangles with Navy, a tea dance
will be held in the Men’s Residence Common Room. a

The dancé, scheduled to start
about five and wind up at seventhirty, will be sponsored by the
Alpha Gamma Delta Fraternity.
Proceeds will go toward the furthering of the Fraternity’s altruistie work,

A squad of Alpha Gamms will
prepare refreshments in the Gym
kitchen ftomorrow morning and
promise that nobody will leave
the dance with an empty stomach.

vlusic will be provided by a
campus group led by Denny Burchell and his tenor sax.

The committee in charge of
the function are Jean Bowers,
Zelda MacKinnon, Frannie Jubien
and Katie MacKinnon.

 

ARTS and SCIENCE

A. meeting of the Executive of
the Arts and Science Society held
Tuesday, heard Society President
Sawyer briefly outline Society
plans for the coming year. Red
and white sweaters will be provided for Arts and Science teams
playing in Interfaculty Leagues.
Debating manager Mller reported
conditions favorable for a winning Society debating team, and
plans were laid for an Arts and
Science supplement to the Gazette — to be handled by Activities Manager Budge Archibald.

This long dormant Socie.r

should ‘show very definite signs

of rejuvination at the approach
ing General Meeting — to be
helt at 12 noon, Tuesday, Oct.
28, in the Chemistry Theatre.

Support By Council Said -—
Responsible For Success

Marking the resurrection of Dalhousie’s school spirit, the Gold
and Black brass band blared a challenging note to the freshmen class

this year.

Ernie Heighton’s efforts as band director have been welk

rewarded in the opinion of Dalhousie students who witnessed the
intiation parade early in the term, and the subsequent appearances.

of the musical aggregation at sporting events on and off the campus.

 

Long Weekend

Bares Campus

Large groups of Dalhousians,
findly nursing dreams of roast
turkey and cranberry sauce, tore
themselves away from their textbooks and professors last weekend and set out on the shortest
road leading home,

Studley campus, because of the
lack of activity, resembled NO
MAN’S LAND. City
were not seen on the campus, and
an estimated one-fifth of resient students who stayed behind
found holiday week-end enterainment elsewhere.

Methods
ward bound students were varied. Some went by train or bus;
others by car or aircraft —
many travelled by thumb. At any
rate, all roads led home, and
Dalhousians, reminiscent of
Thanksgiving dinner around the
family table, returned to their
studies this week with renewed
initiative.

students

of travel for home
 

RECORDED MUSIC

The music appreciation hour
which proved itself last year will
be continued again this year, according to an announcement received by the Gazette yesterday.

First meeting of the season
will be held Wednesday evening,
Oct, 22 at 8 o’clock. Officers will
be elected, and a program mapped out for the rest of the year.
The organization meeting will be
followed by the playing of a few
selections.

Old Dalhousians remarked
that for the first time in years
the brass band is worthy of the:
colors it bears. One of the chief
reasons for the band’s fine ap-pearance this year has been the
new sweaters -- the uniform appearance which places the organization in the category of a band,.
rather than a _ heterogenous
group of instrument wielders. To.
this student council, and
hardworking Geoffrey
Payzant must go the credit for
the black sweaters and crests.
Their supplying the.
long. needed uniforms should not.
go unmarked.

year’s
to the

action in

Students who saw last year’s:
band will remember the limited
repertoire of that aggregation--despite their will to work, student interest was slight and they
felt out in the cold, according
to most observers. This year, thepresentation of sweaters, and theobvious interest shown by the;
Student’s Council has done much:
to restore student interest in the:
band, and the results have been
seen by all the student body.

_ The band is good, and is improv~

ing.

Members of the band, under
Ernie Heighton’s direction include; Les Single, Johnny Dodge,.
Bob Rankine, Bernal] Sawyer;,
Geoff Payzant, Don Theakston,,
Malcolm Parks, Bill Christie;
Frank Padiiove, Jack Wileox;.
Beb Ward, Andy Atkinson, John
Rustin, Cy Bugden, Murdock
Chisholm, Sherman Zwicker, Row
Ripley, Dennis Burchell, Tan Patmeter, Bill Moreside, and Dor
Smith.

Pa ee
et i

“ on Oe on e 4 aes yt oo +
’ * =
 

 

ig 7 Pres i
ee mm % Mn PAROS unary
. We ioe ewan le
a, 7 Pa P ‘
UC Mee lye Ee ae ee | ey y ct
(heard Geet ON at Bog ce et ee a c
Py, thea Ro ee ar hi Me aftp ; . ‘ uP.
OL se Mg ee atts aT Sari aa
oi Bid ar WMA tie ees
epee y me iS
rie at) roe :
the i ta i
ASU baie eet
pea aie eat Aid|
Acta! {este math ney F

++

  

4

SPORT

REPORT

BY BOB TUCK

 

Down at the Wanderers Grounds Saturday, the football team
displayed a will to win and fight tnat we haven't seen the equal
ot in many a day, and it was matched all the wy by the enthusiasm
of the large Dal crowd that thoroughly cheered and supported their
team all afternoon, Instead of being merely spectators, Dalhousie
turned out as supporters of the team, and the cheering and all round
‘enthusiasm on the part of the bleachers sped the Tigers on to their
lop-sided victory.

And up at Studley the English rugby Tigers demonstrated
a similar determination as they fought off a desperate King’s
team, and won going away, After scoring a touchdown early
in the game, the Dal team was backed right up, and forced to
hang on until half-time. At the intermission King’s looked like
a good bet. But with the memory of a 28—0 defeat last year,
Dalhousie fought right back and completely dominated the final
half, and at the end King’s was a thoroughly beaten outfit.

Everywhere you look, Dalhousie is racking up victories. In fact,
at the time of writing, the Gold and Black has not a loss to mar its
perfect record. And with each success, the various Dalhousieteams
move closer to championships Of course its too early to say in the
football category, but the way the teams are flying, the trophies
gained already by the tennis team are going to be matched on the
mantle by others with equal glitter.

The new spirit at Dal was typified te our mind by the strains
of “Glory, Glory for Dalhousie’ which emanated from the truck
carrying the team back fro mthe Wanderers Grounds Saturday. The
‘Tigers and indeed the whole of Dalhousie, have got the winning
Spirit. And it’s winning spirit that produces championships more
than anything else.

As things are now shaping up the two biggest events remaining on the Fall sports program are a contemplated game
with McGill, and the game with Navy in the local Canadian
Football loop. There is also a distinct liklihood of important
Engfish rugby matches. The McGill game is not a certainity as
yet, but it should be a good indication, if it is held, of the calibre
of play in the local loop. The Navy game, rescheduled for the
coming Wednesday, may well prove to be a battle for the supremacy of the City League. Navy, on Thanksgiving day, romped
to a win over a light St, Mary’s team which had lost the season
opener to Dal 9—7, But the Dal line has added weight, and the
whole team has added experience It shapes up as the. game of
the year.

Our friend from the Valley has once again had something to
Say concerning Dalhousie football policy, and has reiterated the
“gullible Haligonian” epithet he hurled down from his apple tree
last week He makes the statement that it will take five years before Canadian football in this city has attained an acceptable standlard. He quotes Dal’s 9—7 win over St. Mary’s, and St. Mary’s 1—-0
victory over Wanderers as examples o fthe poor play to be expected
for the next five years. He says these contests were poor because
Several Dal students told him they were Whether he considers his
Dal friends gullible or not we don’t know, but if he includes them
in his twice-declared “gullible Haligonians” statement, it makes him
look pretty unwise himself. The play of the two games quite pos
sibly was not of the best or most inspiring standard, and we won’t "

answer his contentions on the merits of these matches) We will just
point out to him the demonstration of inspiring football at the Wanderers Grounds Saturday that had Dalhousians whooping and cheering and enjoying themselves as never: before at a football game.
And this was all the more remarkable because it was a lopsided
game and, under ordinary circumstances, unexciting because. of that.
The answer is that Dal had a well drilled, spirited outfit, that kept
the crowd on it’s toes with a colorful, skillful attack.

ake

j Of course, this rebirth of football enthusiasm is not re
strictd to Canadian rugby alone. Anyone who was at the DalKing’s game on Tuesday, and there were a good many,, now realize that Dal spirit is second to none; All the old excuses
concerning lack of residences and urban situation are now pretty
well forgotten. Dalhousians can carry their collective heads
higher than ever before, because they are well on the way towards achieving a supremacy in the field of student endeavours
that will match the “University’s” pre-eminence in matters
schol astic.

ene
DEPENDENTS’ ALLOWANCES day, October 14, 15 and 16... If.
Those claiming Dependents’ declarations are not made, payAllowances who have not sub- ments will be held up, and stumitted a sworn declaration should dents will be paid as single men.
do so befors a representative of Delhousie University,
D.V.A., who will be at the Men's
Residence between 11 and 1 on
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thurs
Office of the Veteran Adviser.
October 10, 1947. ™

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CRUSH WANDERERS 27 - 0

DALHOUSIE TEAM
IMPRESSIVE IN
LOPSIDED WIN

The DAL Tigers chalked up
their second victory in as many
starts in the Halifax Canadian

Footbal lLeague last Saturday
aiternoon when they crushed the
Wanderers, 27—0, at the Redmen’s Park. The big, charging
Dal line consistently smothered
tle opposition’s ground attack
and opened thé way for the backfeld aces to rip off long gains.
Although they fought hard all
the way, the Wanderers were
completely outclassed and thoronghly beaten at the finish.

In the first three minutes of
play Dal broke the scoring ice
when Pete Feron, a brilliant per
former kicked a
30 yard field goal, after he had
taken a lateral from. Bob MacDonald and gone 38 yards around
left end to set up the play.

all afternoon,

With Feron, Don Woodward,
a.id Bob Wlson, the Tigers’ driving halfback, sparking the advance, the Gold and Black mar.
cned 80 yards to score their first
touehdown of the day midway

through the second quarter. A
spectacular three man lateral,
with Feron on the scoring end,
ete up the last 27 yards of the
drive. As Feron’s attempted conversion was wide, Dal led at the
half, 8—0.

Continuing their stellar play
in the second half, the Tigers
scered n the third period on
Kenny Reardon’s 16 yard end
run and conversion, and
uv thirteen points

picked
in the final
quarter. After scoring a rouge
on the second play of the fourth
period, Paul Lee returned a punt
to the Wanderers’ 22 yard line,
and then on third down, and from
18 yards out, Wilson rpped
through left middle for the 5pointer. Feron converted this
score and later-notched his seccnd, and the
touchdown.

Tigers’ fourth,
teardon’s sensationa!
40 yard dasa from the midfield
stripe and his 11 yard plunge to
the paved way for Feron’s tally.
Reardon converted the
point.

final

Wilson and Reardon, a strong
second half performer, broke off
the longest single gains for the
Tigers, but Feron, Lee, Woodward, MacDonald and Blair Dun.

Icp, all played steady football,
helped immeasurably by the powerful line play up front. Now that
Weodwrad has recovered from
h* early season injuries, a stronger overhead game can be expected each week
Tigers.

from the

For the Wanderers, Dick Cut.
rie and Erie Temple were the
brightest stars of the game -—
a game marred again to some
extent by successive penalties.

The St. F. X_ English Rugby
machine showed that it has lost
none of its stature of recent
by decisively defeating
Tech at the Wanderers Grounds

Wednesday. The score was 16-3

years,

FRIDAY, OCTOBER .17

 

Dal picking-quarter Robertson is shown above scoring Dalhousie’s
second touchdown against King’s at Studley Saturday, The Tigers
won 6—0O. An unidentified King’sman has brought Robertson down,
but just a split second too late to prevent the score, Gordie Campbell
(16) makes a desperate lunge, while team mate Ferg Fergtsson comes
vp to help out. Dal linesman Mac Cochran follows up the play (behind Campbell). The score came on the last play of the game.

In a ragged but exciting contest, the Dalhousie English Rugby
Tigers swept to their second straight win at Studley Field Saturday
as they overcame King’s 6—0. The game was hard fought and clean,
and both sides took command of the play for long periods at a time.

Shortly after the game op
ened, Dalhousie’s Rosie MacMillan ran the ball over the
King’s line to give the Tigers
a 38—0 lead.
Kneg’s team quickly recovered

 

However the

and pressed strongly into the
Dal end. For the remainder
of the half King’s controlled
the play and missed scoring
chances several Tackling by both sides was poor
and neither team was hittne
its top stride. Scrum work in
this half was about even, and
the King’s backfeld was showing to better advantage than
their Dalhousie counterparts.
The second half was all Dal’s.

VELVET

PENCILS ARE

times.

 

As King’s had hemmed the Tigers in during most of the first
half, so the Gold and Black restrieted the Kingsmen to their
own end of the field. King’s had
only one good scoring chance but
it was gone before they could go
over as Dal capitalized on a fumDal and backshowed improvement,

ble. The scrum

tield but
the King’s defence held tight until the last play of the game.
Robertson plunged through for a
touchdown just befor etime ‘was

up, boosting the score to 6—0.
Hart missed the convert frum
point-blank range

Both teams fought hard, but
it was the Dal comeback in the
second half that ensured the
game. Up until then they had
been fading badly and the 3—0
lead looked all but secure For,
Dal Quigley, MacEwan and MacMillan were outstanding, while
Fergusson, Frazee and Conter
were the pick of the King’s team.

       

 
   
  
  
   
    

   

The best indoor and outdoor’

This means that
the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.
You can’t buy better
school pencils !

sporting equipment

THE SPORTS
LODGE

|
|
is found at
| 86 GRANVILLE ST.

“Play More — Live Longer’”’

 

;

 

 

 
   

; = . 7 ‘Baik .
nt pth gene et ene TS

  

——— ae ass — | eso eee eS i a a . ; —s0 ase weap te nk me So
, i a 5 sad t B |; Si Ae eye 9 mn ll .
CO PETG AL AN SR AL yt ON eR r\
. . 4 . pa” a4 Ne A tt oe Pe thal id 4 ar a i. 4s pw Se aS? ot rs 7 — 7 Pt

 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10 PAGE FIVR

_ DAL TENNIS CHAMPS BY DEFAULT |
- UNB UNABLE TO MEET. —sSCAMPUS ROUNDUP

- PLAYER LIMIT; FORFEIT CRACK

Every group, here at Dalhousie, has a feeling. King’s have the

 

 

 

ng

E beating its battered head against the proverbial wall. We couldn’t
ie : lose a yet we couldn't win — Dal was playing Dal. Of course, Dalsth housie was nominally playing King’s College, but on investigation it
Pen, would be found that most of the Blue and White players are regisam tered in Dal, in Arts and Sciences, in Law, and some in Commerce.
a. .. Earlier in the year, there was
3 quite a “to-do” when the DAAC Wit lie pick Of Lue two ihvero announced that Dal would vacate  Culdte teams tne wold and
Senior English Rugby in fayor !#¢X Wouid nave made all tue
" of a strong Intermediate team. !*Ctionaries react.
| We wouldn’t have done well in there are many confleting
| the big league with our major WeWws as to tne ditference bePy effort in the Canadian game but ‘Ween a Dalnousie student and
C ; a King’s student — it would take
) | ie pa Cleat ariiivardty Pease. wacDonald-Hancock-Milher
: Weeeruived i. Reh exvalinant teeney all rolied into one to an.
: iis “this. ‘yeak toa record’ 9,000, oe sd ey. ee
j ee Ge ett a 8a! oh Be i¢ main point is that in order
a a str as mech Worry a to put out a concerted effort and
y Abana h ther Ghipd S daily “Guper’ in mnie Dalhousie or Dalhousie| Canadian college journalism. Al- eines aaa Metco ine
though still somewhat hampered ee hee tia ee nin ttas id Moet bath
a with respect to plant, the paper eis we, ee ERO wae, . .
4” has commenced daily publicat- ~ oy si entitled to) play. with
a Dal or King’s, whether the constitution of the DAAC is corr:et
We Saas Pin per hien ain ire in saying that all students of
Shown above is the 1947 edition of Dalhousie’s Tennis team, two Halifax «curling are mee King’s are members of that ort Maritime titleholders. Reading from left to right, Front row; Shirley C | M te fe te Fite a ae ganization, whether King’s may
i, McCoy, Yvonne LeBroq, Barbara Quigley, Janet Cameron, Betty ur ers ee 9 ern rare et set up ther own Glee Club in
Wen Petrie. Back row, and standing, Colin H. Smith (manager), Bill More- ary lee Bate There er ret to that of Dalhousie
side, David Genge, Bill Pope, Paul Lee Inset, Syd Bartlett and Gwen Plan Season By aoe a ee tea ee aa considered one of the
st in the country
: oe ; : 7 < , : re ied x On Tuesday Oct. 7 a small interested in this old and ancient The situation is one of those
: : Acvites ame. Nearly all those now in- she ea a .
Dalhousie’s crack tennis team have won the Maritime Tennis oie Vivail Gece ogee et, es not played the Cee ae plaguing
Championship once again, but this year did it without playing a Cats :.me before and it is not ne:- Peer dip Si picmabia dein
| match. ‘The University of New Brunswick, which had eliminated Mt. discuss the posstblity of rots essary to have knowledge of the - 1” °Tder to assume the place
Li maa Nac Pica veriel: title, forfeited their chance for the Mar- img curling ths year at ease Hiei santo vg Ca i we deserve amonert the top uni.
| itime title because they were unable to floor the ten man team that The plans sai a arer vey pia ate Interested ‘they Should get in es “ CCanada. past ne
the constitution’ calls for. in the tentative stage but at pias: escg eL Jey Bill Macleod we lost two possibile Maritime
ent they call for playing at the championships, and who knows
Tennis officials at the Fredericton University, in contact with or Bernal Sawyer. how many in the future if eS
Dalhousie manager Colin Smith during the past week, decided that situation continues to exist. In
they could floor no more than six players, and asked if it would he the last issue of the King’s Colsatisfactory if the tournament was held on the basis of smaller teams. “Callia houses es trips artes viens est? * lege Nipenotts inetd * cli #
ot Dalhousie replied that if they agreed to such an arrangement it . p < “name of “B R. GC.” ent all ,
would be unconstitutional. It was then that U. N. B. forfeited the : J over himself ma the enti a ‘
title to Dal. the famous first words of Caesar's 4 King’s and made snide remarks
Dalhousie won the Maritime Championship last year by another Th Dare on the compartive ineptness of
sort of unanimous decision. In the 46-47 finals Dal won 25 out of Riehl Dal. He asked himself numerous
lon, 25 matches Later,«in the celebrated McGill plavoff, Dalhousie lost questions about the poor spirit ’
all nine matches played. You'll find the three on the Dal campi but failed to
- ener part harmony of an See that conditions sueh as the
D | T l During eG nae ns Tee scrum, Arrow shirt, tie and King’s-Dal set-up were one of
, a Opp es a makeshift affair foy this game hagdkeetchiel ence: the Kids Genes
Ts 3 only got the ball out once, ble is the first and We all acknowledge Kine'’s
Kingsmen 8-5 King’s started off strongly in last word on what College as an old and reverted
tho second stanza, but after a the well-dressed’ col- institution and hold great re.
In a bitterly fought battle, .1¢ pear miss by Campbell on a goal lege man prefers for Spect and esteem for the school
rampaging Dalhousie English ick, Dal resumed the offensive a houseparty week- but something will have to 3¢
I Rugby Tigers made it a lost snd it became a question end, “ Bé, a8 we are now like a ninea” weckend for the King’s Blue and whether King’s could hold the teen year old dressed in his chil ]
 

 

 

AT DAL NET TITLE

 

 

White as they took their second
game in four days from the
King’s men at Studley Tuesday
afternoon. Although Dal enjoyed
a distinct territoral edge, the
game was still close, and until
Russ MacEwan scored in the

closing minutes of the contest,

the issue was still in doubt.
The flashiest performance of

 

Tigers to a tie. Finally Russ MacEwan went over with the ball
for the winning points. King’s
tried desperately, but they were
out of the ball game.

For Dal MacEwan, Cochran
and Robertson were out-standing
while Frazee and Ferguson were
the pick of the King’s men.

 

 
  

 
  
   

“So if you can’t quote Latin to your girl friend, you can
keep her interested in your non-pareil Arrow shirt, your
wrinkle-resistant Arrow tie and your Arrow handkerchief—
which are paradoxically enough, all matching and matchless!

King’s feeling (something like the

“new look’), Law havethelaw

feeling, Meds have the meds feeling, and even the mice at Shirreff

Hall have been acting strangely.

Dalhousie is a house divided against herself. On Saturday and
again on Tuesday, there was a tableau on Studley Field of Dalhousie

     
      
    
     
  
   
     
 
   
      
   
       
      
        
      
      
  
      
      
    
     
        
    
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
     
        
     
    

   

hocd shorts, which are hamper1g Our movements and making
us look ridiculous,

Its a new day for Dalhousie!
Half the Fall is gone and Dal.
housie has yet to meet defeat in
any sport. We’ll all be able to
walk into the alumni smoker, to

be held this week, for our yearly

a supply of seegars and throw out
i _ the game came on the first play. ————————__ our chests and grin when the oldwhen Fernie. Fergusson, speedy Pete Kelly has been named er editions of the Gold and Black
King’s lineman picked up a loose  Fhysical Director at UNB. A for- start talkimg about the old days

"ey ball and raced 45 yards to score. mer NHL hockey player, he suc- maybe they'll have their chests
Mac Flewelling converted to give ceeds Howie Ryan who has taken out too. It is said that the auth
King’s a 5—0 lead, Due to sup-° a position on the McGill Sports orities are going to frisk “Pistol
crior scrum work, the Tigers Staff as Basketball Coach, -te” Feron before he goes inte

. came roaring back, and pressed : : a the next game. After the one
‘yy Rine’s closely for the remainder a pies i Gon i na *All Gaul is divided im three parts, hundred and forty-five Poundeor

7 of the period. After forcing the winter, Tha oily majop Masitine made his mammoth touchdown
King’s ears to touch for safety Universities now with out arti- ARROW SHIRTS and TIES Santee. Ae ete: Salto: Sat item

td I. three times Roberton scored Fie ficial ice rinks are UNB and UNDERWEAR * HANDKERCHIEFS © SPORTS SHIRTS bulking Wanderers moaning on
i a fiye-yard scrum, with MacMil- Hiabiacicia: the turf.-the officials sfspect him

9

  

.

_4an successful with the convert,

   

of carrying conoealed weapons.

 
THE DALHOUSIE. GAZETTE

TRY

4 a ‘of ‘oleh Padvee. the Jetiabatinilee of student
six political disturbances is more than worthy of our notice in
‘The Carlsbad Decrees of Metternich were provoked directly

1) liberal activities of German students, and their Student’s

; vigorously suppressed. The degree of attention conferred

» student population in political matters by kings and governwould be flattering were it not so disastrous. e

re ‘the ruins of many universities in Europe such as Prague and

irsaw stand monuments to students who died defending their
ni refstion from political, intellectual domination. Consider Hitler’s

s to the intellectual jugend. Consider also the reckless heroism”

ed in the anti-Nazi student revolt at Munich in 1942, at a time

when the Nazi ‘machines of oppression were at their greatest strength
wes in the Fatherland. ‘
| | nm 1940, the occupying power in Holland forbade all Jewish pronice to | teach. There was a Sigorens student protest. The students

/ UA te few i i later, punitive raids were made in class-rooms of
fi niversities which had not yet been closed, and about 600 students
: . imprisoned, All universities were then closed. Later again, an

2 + announced the deportation to forced labor of all Dutch students.

bcxagie in hiding, leading the resistance for which Holland became famous.

e aes. description of the enormous fabric which constituted ‘the under
(ae ployee struck (it is against civil ae in peace) the Germans cut
its ue i ee all their families from the meagre rations then available. The

h thet i and ae what was left of the telephone system under the very

( a of the enemy. The Executive Secretary of the British C»
re ating Committee, International Student Service, had himself

_ smuggled into Holland via the ingenious underground transport
system before the Liberation,

hiays “Here is a point to consider: this dachivery is still in existance,

ie "sadn still have sources of counterfeit money, ration coupons, pass
‘ports. They still have it in their power to carry out most destructive

_ Measures against an aggressive power within the state.

Dutch students arranged a labour camp within Germany to aid
"reconstruction there - a noble gesture of the first magnitude. They
invited Russian students to join others from many European countries.
No reply came from Moscow, but a few weeks later an invitation

Bi arrived for Dutch students to come and assist with the reconstruction

a a ue of Stalingrad. I asked the official in charge of student travel why no
- students were sent. He replied, ‘‘We knew that we would never see
them again. ”?

_ The Communist Party knows too well the advantages of courting
eee favour of students. The International Union of Students is an
example. Its president and first secretary are prominent Communists.

_ It held its conference at Prague this summer along with the so-called
World Youth Festival, which was a Communist pow-wow and nothing
else. At this conference the embryo National Students Association of
the United states adopted the I.U.S_ in preference to I.S.S. The American students who carried out this adoption boast. that they did so on

Ai _ their own terms (the dollar again!) but I point out that they adopted

it nevertheless. Some of us may remember Dr. McLure’s remark about
the brilliant technique the Communists have for anaesthesia.

ai tah be Sa OE the I. S. S. Secretariat in Geneva, at least three are avowed

Communists. At the I. S. S. Confrence in Denmark this summer

_ there were ten French delegates. All but one were Communists, and

that | one was the only Roman Catholic among them—this indicates

_ the political voice of France that we are allowed to hear in our stu
_ dent assembles,

The I S&S. 8S. is by constitution a non-political organization, and

» political prejudice is forbidden in any of its fields of activity. At

present there is no need for fears or doubts regarding the political
honesty of the organization, but we have much to fear in the future.

; _ We can combat it now by backing our Canadian Committee in money

i and ‘effort. We can combat it in the future by some energetic po
ot ical thinking and action. —

_ To misquote: in the political scamble that is now inevitable,
__ tere is only room for “the quick and the dead.”
3 Let's get moving.

ia,°

G. B. Payzant

__ Thoughts On English 2

by CAIN
When Milton by his wife was bossed |
He wrote his epic Paradise Lost;
| But when a widower he reigned,

een on Paradise Regained.

na NOTICE p of one of these pages is in demand, dhd the competition is on,
If you want a position with a
future on the Gazette drop in
and be put to work.

CAMPUS
STRAWS

by “MAC”

Perhaps I’ve assumed a coll3gjate mood these days but it seems
to me that the old Dal spirit is
haunting this place again. During
the game of Saturday last I
thought that I had never seen a
crew of Dalhousians display more
real enjoyment. Everyone seemed to enjoy themselves thoroughly except possibly the unfeeling
citizens who resented the dulcet
tones of our own “feetball” band

‘(a double-whammy on the whole

pack of "em).,

Again, on enthusiasm; Having
just concluded a wee session in
yonder MacDonald Library, my
eyes have just returned to their
sockets after viewing some most
un-library-like characters ensconced therein. Enthusiasm for study

yet, I’ve heard several people
com-menting on this, maybe it’s

_ the same old routine every year.

I’m waiting with interested eye
to see the breaking of ground for
our new building People — do
you realize that the next few
years around this place will see
numerous changes? The new Arts
Building, Men’s Residence, National Research Building, will be
the first new building around
here since 1931.

One of the straws in the wind
this week is the project afoot to
bring McGill’s Intermediate Team
down, The game is planned at
Studley so far. More fuel to our
fire of enthusiasm. I heard some
ambitious type say ‘“‘Why not
McGill’s Varsity team?” Do I
hear any ‘Well, why not’’’s?

I’ve got a free afternoon today
and the problem of what to do
with such a tremendous expanse
of tme hangs heavy on my hands.

Y’know, I figure the year’s
really agoin’ now. I can remember all my classes without even
looking at my timetable. Oh, well,

we aren’t all endowed -with superior mentality. Yipe!

Think I’ll go down to Joe’s for
a coke or something.

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

NURSERIES Limited
38) BARRINGTON JT: HALIFAX

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

SUPPER DANCE
EVERY

_ SATURDAY

DON WARNER

and his 12-piece ORCHESTRA

hes ages ¢ re uM a 4 a
* i
Ts oe - ~ me
2 . 7 yr ar uM ¥
ve
ey ee


FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17

CO-ED NEWS AND VIEWS

To look at the issues of ‘he GAZETTE already published this
year, one might think that co-ed activities were among the missing.
Fortunately enough, ce n’est pas vrai. If the truth must come out,
yours truly has been slow on the uptake, and must take the blame for
this silence. (Which you will probably be wishing you had back) |

Delta Gamma started officially last Tuesday Oct..7, with president Elsie Cruickshank conducting the first general meeting of
the year. It was difficult to get an accurate idea of the number present, what with people crawling all over the floor, but it looked ike
guite a bunch to us, which is always a welcome sign.

If you’re looking for a really snifty pin, sign up on the Delta
Gamma.list in the Common Room of the Arts Building, and soon
after you’ve made a slight deposit, to cover the cost of mailing, hardling ete ete., you too can be a proud owner of a Delta Gamma “D”.

Thanksgiving weekend was spent in the usual weekend way by
most of the femmes, more than half of the Hall girls remaining in
residence. |

No news on the meal business at the Hall, The petition has been
presented to Miss Mowat, and a meeting is scheduled for Wednesday
night, at which the co-eds will present their argument,

‘Nuff said for this week. We'll give it to you in small doses.
Fond adieux, or words to that effect.

a ,

OPENING TO SWING TO FASHION

Thanksgiving Day saw the opening ~ of the much publicized
“Swing To Fashion” at the Nova Scotian ballroom, sponsored by
the Halifax Chronicle and Halifax Daily Star. Halifax women were
introduced to the long hemline, with new fashions modelled by seven
Montreal models and Dalhousie Freshette Margaret Eustace. Mrs.
Abbie Lane, women’s editor of the Halifax Chronicle and Halifax
Daily Star, ably handled the commentaries.

Don Warner and the original sextet with Maynard Taylor on
the vocals, are supplying the musical background for the week-long
show, giving forth with their usual “solidness”. Don features a score
of songs, including several of his popular “seat” songs.

Freshette Margie Eustace exhibits outstanding poise and charm
in her modelling of the latest in teen-age fashions. This is a show
that no one should miss. All clothes modeled are on sale at leading
Halifax stores.

The Curse OF A Softened Heart

I gazed into her wide-set eyes
That sadly begged expressively,
And seemed to say, “Oh, please, don’t go — — ——
Oh please do not abandon me.”’
I faltered, softened by her gaze,
My thoughts were twisted in dismay;
It happens every time, I thought,
That I decide to go away:
I must be firm — I'll go at once — — —
But no — those eyes destroy my will.
“Oh, please, don’t stare at me like that.
Why must you use such utter skill?”
I turned from her to leave, but then
Again I was compelled to pause — — —
“Oh, all right then — come on along.”
So on she came — on all four paws. ;

Dal Off Hours

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

Maritime Business College |
73 College Street

Students who do not desire a-complete course in any of the
seven courses are admitted as General Students.

The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursdty
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING
will be valuable aid in future years

Enter any day. Tuition counts from date of Registration

THE NOVA SCOTIA |
TECHNICAL COLLEGE |

Offers Degree Courses In
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, CHEMICAL
METALLURGICAL, AND MINING ENGINEERING

Twenty Scholarships of $75. each are Offered To Nova
Scotia Students holding Engineering Diplomas:
Modern Equipment, Instructional Staff with Individual
Experience.
APPLY FOR CALENDAR
ALLEN E. CAMERON, PRESIDENT

 
  

   
 

\
}

 

  

SAL Co-EoS WILL GO TO ANY LENGTHS Nae

‘DEAR CHILDREN

We draw your attention to the editorial of the Learned Editor
in last week’s issue of the Gazette; it affects us because of a remark
of a features editor. You see, early in the week we had gone to see
the features editor about our column. Entering the office, we saw
a re-writer. We leered at the re-writer The re-writer ignored us.
We pushed on, and arrived at the Features Desk.

“Hey, Ed,” we said “There ain’t no news.”

“There never is.”” He opened one eye. “The Comintern is revived, though.” He closed the eye. We waited for a while. The other
eye might open. It didn’t; only a persistent belch from the other side
of the room disturbed the serenity of the Gazette Office. We left,
for intensive research in the Library.

 

- Children, it all started this way. There was once a chap called
Marx. This man Marx went to a good college. When he got out he
looked for a job, and began to edit a paper. This was a newspaper
(like the Gazette) which was Left, Wing (not like the Gazette).
Everybody read it. The police also read it, and Marx had to leave the
country, He went to England. j

In those days England was a fine country, You could even
stand up and say what you thought. This is what is called Demoeracy Now they have the Supplies and Services (Transitional Powers) Bill. Anyway Marx settled down in England, and started the
Communist International which called upon the workers of the world
to unite because they had nothing to lose but their chains. Maybe
this wasn’t such a good reason, because when-the workers finally
‘got round to starting the Communist International, they all disagreed about things. Anyway, it started, and is called affectionately
for short ‘‘Comintern.”

As I said, the workers, disagreed about things. Some wanted
bread tor all, or jam for some or minutes read at the end of the meeting and so on. Tney split up, which is why we have so_many nowadays,
such as tne Socialist International, the Womens’ International, the
I, S_ S. and many others. Although most of them were no good, like
the Triple Alliance, a real craze for Internationals was started. Soon,
every country had its own International, which it kept to itself. But
they realized that this was not a good thing, so they abolished internationals, and had a big meeting which they ealled the League of
Nations (so that none could call it International). But this was no
good either. They still disagreed about minutes, and bread, and
Ethiopia and what have you. So that split up again,

Now we have the U_N.O. which is no good too,but. has made one
big step in the right directon. This is the veto. When something comes
along that someone dosen’’t like, there is no argument or unpleasantness—it is simply vetoed. This is a great advantage, Some people
don’t like being vetoed here and there, but they just veto somebody
else and then they don’t feel so bad.

Even though we have this fine U-N.O., which is making these big
steps, some people in this world are never satisfied. Some countries
still want their Internationals, For instance, England cannot have one
until she saves up enough, and Jamaica cannot have one because she
is not big enough. But Russia is big enough, and the U.S.A. is rich
enough. So these have their own internationals. Russia has the Comintern, and the U S.A_ has several (because it is richer) such as the
Marshall approach, the Interstate Highways Commission and the Pan
American League.

People are making suggestions about what to do with these Internationals; Lushwell has written letters to Marshall Stalin and Mr.
Trygve Lie suggesting that he organise a Canadian football series
between them but nothing has come of this. Somebody asked why they
are not called Internationals if they are Internationals. This is hecause they are snobbish about it; The U.S‘A. dosen’t want anyone
running around saying that the Pan American is Commanist and

Russia ealls hers an International antway- (See Seabiscuit’s Report.

Ch XII, Vol. 6). (1)

The important thing to remember is that some peaqple like it one
way, and some like it ano#her way, and some don’t know because they
don’t know anything. =

THE END

a

(1) See also: Lushki, Why I am a Marxist; Trotski, Why I am a

Lenimist; Lenin, Why I am a Fabian; Marx, Why I am Crazy; Fabius,

as
bas s-:, * Sah: >
_-- —?
|
¥

 

- BEASTLY HABIT

 

by C. S. WEBBER

PAGE

  
  

SEVEN

RAMPANT AT DAL

; Gazette Correspondent in Psych, 17 (a) ie
A recent survey by a Gazette reporter has disclosed the startling fact that a great percentage of

Dalhousie students are addicted to tomato juice. This probably does not come as a shock to most students, but nor indeed would this be particularly shocking in itself, the invidious nature of this habit

does not become apparent until we are informed o fthe hour of this libation. No less than twenty-six

out of twenty-seven questioned admitted that they liked tomato juice with.their breakfast! and the
one abstainer proudly said that the only reason that he did not join the others was because he was too
pressed for time at that hour of the morning.
Seven In the tropics men who have any amount of self respect refrain from tomato juice till after suR
down, and in many other parts of the world tomato juice has been considered so potent a force for
evil that its consumption has been abolished, or at least controlled by law. Yet here we have the unparalled scene of young men and women actually starting off the morning with a jigger of demon

tomato juice.

Now the author is not an exceptionally puritanical man, and
he does not believe in the unnecessary curtailment of people’s liberty; but the sight of the youth
of this fair university, the very
hope of Canada, ruining their

health and digestion by their callous use of this vile brew is more
than he can stand. It is even
ramored that some undergradu
ates, more misguided than the
rest, actually spike their tomato
juice with Worchester Sauce.
Surely this is enough to convince
even the most liberal that steps
must be taken to prevent the
spread of this evil and debasing
habit among the students, and
that some effort should be made
to reclaim the lost souls who are
already its unhappy victims. To
this purpose I would suggest the
formation of a Dalhousie branch
of the Tomato Juicers Anonymous and would gladly take it
upon myself to bring spiritual
comfort to those who now unsucessfully tty to drown their
sorrows in the bestial brew,

In the interests of these poor
sufferers I have evolved a cure
which, so far, has never failed
to wean them from this horrible
vice; For the benefit of those
who may be interested in takin
the cure and the others who have
merely an academic interest, I
will outline the method used to
bring the addicts back to a healthy, normal existance, The cure

is simplicity in itself, and although some patients find it exceedingly unpleasant, this must

be allowed to stand in the
way of their rehabilitation. Every
morning, in place of their accustomed slug of tomato juice, the

not

sa

Friendly

 

V Ask for it either way... both

 

patient is given two ounces. of
brewn aromatic licquid that is
derived from good, wholesome
molasses. This medicinal elixir in
moderate doses has a pronounced
invigorative effect, and the more
promising patients often
that the stomach burning sensation becomes quite pleasant, being associated witth a most remarkable spiritual elevation. It
is not long before the sufferers
come: to like this medicine and
indeed, inveigh most heartily +gainst the demoralizing effects
ef tomato juice. Some of our
most eloquent tomato juice temperance speakers are those who
have beén won from the powertul clutches of the habit by my
cure, and if is the continued progress that is being made that has
heartened me to the extent of
offering the helping hand to ail
who sincerely desire to lift themselves above the vile and degrading tomato juice habit.

All those interested should consult me at the Gazette office
where full privacy will be assured, and careful personal attentioR given to _ their malady.
Remember, the tomato juice habit is not invincible! We can cure
it!

NOTICE

Appointments with Dr. Webber
may be made by contacting Df.
Webber at the offices of the Dalhousie GAZETTE at Studley. It
is hoped that those who apply for
seances will be in a condition to
walk by themselves; those who
insist on being carried in will be
charged for this service, Ordinary fee: 200 guineas (in U, S.
currency.)

Ceres

state ”

NOTICE

GAZETTE
hopes to publish an eight-page

In December the

Literary Supplement, Up to 1945
it was the custom of the Gazette
to publish this supplement, but
lately poor student support has
not warranted its continued appearance. The Editors hope that
all those who enjoy writing will
thie
special issue. It is expected that
prizes will be offered for the best

bring contributions in for

prose and the best poetry contributions printed. Details will be
published as soon as they are
known definitely,

NOTICE

The Gazette would appreciate
information on the following suhjects, and asks any person on the
Campus who is able to supply it
to notify the Gazette:—

The.. World:. Youth.. Festival
which was held in Prague this
summer; we are not aware of
the fact that any Dalhousie student was present, but if any
were, we would appreciate an in
terview on the subject.

Similarly,.. the . movement. im
Jugo-Slavia to Huild a railway in

the Serajevo distrct of Bosnia,

which is supposed to have been
*Stu
If any one here

manned by international
dent Brigades.”
was there either with the so-called ‘“‘Beaver Brigade’ or

purely private capacity, we would

in a

appreciate very much any informaton which they can give us.
The Gazette can only make use

of first-hand information.

moment... have a Coke

trade-marks mean the same thing,

COCA-COLA, LTD. — HALIFAX

   

>

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
  

os Deke a plentiful

gk material for varsity
net Robertson and Jean
d . inton ‘court,’ while

et Camere Lucy pe:
ce cand Barb bee

he “opening game of the
oa hockey season with the
lifax bheiee College. The date

‘indsor “on isttavday, the eighteenth. 1 The aeetS has been pract
gan and is expected to
good season. The tent
lineup is: Janet Cameron,

sa Snuggs, ‘M, eit

ie &

nines students seeking sen
ante over the Fort Garry
ae They landed safely in a

es c
is

  
 
   
   
  
  

} der aad Dried Fruit.

as was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in peace:
‘ . “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection

that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
i I in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

“This was a eattereoh of a
story carried in the Manitoban,

oificial organ of the University
of Manitoba, early this week.
‘Last week the story had been
yun under the head,

“Leap for
Lady’s Favor.” The idea was that
two men were going to jump
from an aircraft, and the one
who delayed pulling the rip cord
of his chute longest was to receive the favor of taking the
campus queen out for the evening, /
1,000 students witnessed the
hoax, and the Manitoban reports
that the “Fake Jump failed to
impress.” The reporter said that

he left in a high dudgeon.

 

FRESHETTE IS
TEENAGE MODEL

The alter ego of Dalhousie
freshettes can permissibly take a
jump for higher levels when they
learn that Miss Margaret Eustace
of this year’s Frosh class is modceiling teen age fashions at the
Halifax Chronicle and Daily Star
fashion show now at the Nova
Scotian Hotel.

Miss Eustace, known generally
s “Marg” broke into the modelling field last year as a teen age
mcdel with Halifax Business
firms and has been an attraction
ever since.

The winsome blonde ds as versatile as she is attractive. A crack
swimmer she took part in several
demonstrations with the Red
Cross last summer throughont
he province.

A graduate of Queen Elizabeth
High School she played basketball for the first girls team and
was an outstanding forward.
Here’s best of luck to her in her
tutvre, endeavors, scholastic aad
otherwise.

 

L
ee

THE MARITIME LIFE

THERE ARE MANY ADVANTAGES IN
LAYING THE FOUNDATION OF YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH THE—MARITIME LIFE—THE
ONLY COMPANY WITH HEAD OFFICE

PROGRAMME NOW,

IN THE MARITIMES. A PERSONAL

| Robert E. Hart

COKE *

HALIFAX, N. S.

INTERVIEW ENTAILS NO OBLIGATION. WE HAVE A PLAN TO FIT
EVERY NEED.

A. R. FRASER, C. L. U.
Manager Nova Scotia Branch
Green Lantern, pee Halifax, N. S.
Telephone Ssh

. 38-8745

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

: Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

ty ra Ais :
ee a “ =r {

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
EDITORS —
MAILBOX

(Continued from page 2)

COMMUNISM”, the GAZETTE
has chosen the following, and
thanks reader Cross for his interest. ;

Dear Sir:

The GAZETTE asks for
comments on its editorial entitled Democracy vs Communism.
The editorial poses the question:
What can be done by the democratic powers to answer the recent revival of the International
Comintern, the culmination of a
long-standing conflict between
communism and capitalism.

What most people fail to realize is that it was destined that
communism should flourish in
Russia just the same as it was
destined that socialism should
fleurish in Britain’ and capitalism in the United States. The
economic policy of a country is
relative to its industrial development. Since communism is incompatible with either capitalism
or socialism, or vice versa, mankind is faced with the gravest
problem of all time.

In our opinion the hope of the
werld does not lie in the formation of a league of democratic

‘powers to try to stop the spread

cf communism. The United Nations is doing as much as any
such power could do because it
is in reality only an international body made up of two- dia
metrically opposed factions, the
communist countries on one side
and the democratic countries on
the other. Any open formation
of democratic powers into a
league would only result in the
old balance of power method to
maintain peace, and history has
Shown that it does not work.
“What then is to be done to

 

 

THE
GREEN LANTERN
RESTAURANT

‘The sign of a good meal’ |)

407-409 Barrington St.

 
    
 
 
 

 

solve the irreconcilable disputes
between communism and democracy, or to put it more directly
what is to be done to avert a
way between Russia and America? To us the answer is, unfortunately, automatic and inescapable. There is no hope for #2
solution of the problem for this
generation or perhaps the next.
Rut there is hope for civilization.

From its very nature communism cannot live long. Human nature is not such that i¢t will stand
for suppression of the spirit and
its love of liberty. Communism
offers no such liberty or any
hope of liberty to the masses.

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED
Studley Drug Store

29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store
141 Hollis St.

 

DALHOUSIE RINGS

Birks have in stock

official college rings in
10K gold.

Coming soon will be
Rings with Gold Crests |

mounted on black onyx. |

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

 

SE H Ha ".
= Footwear

We specialize in footwear
that will fit

taste — for either service orfJ

every college

dress wear, for around the
campus or attending social
functions.

We cordially
BM pay us a visit- We present strch

lines as “Hart”, ios and “Ritchie”.

; SHANE’S ;
i Shoe Store

397 Barrington St., Halifax
rn i a a on oo ©

invite you to

Attractively set up departments

featuring —

@® BOOKS

® MUSIC

®@ RECORDS

® PIANOS

@® ELECTRIC APPLIANCES

‘Willis Piano

127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

Dal Students —

A welcome awaits you at

ny ae

456 Barrington Street,

Where you will find A
complete Music Service

and the finest
Sports Equipment.

 

Co. Limited

BRYICREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

   
       
       
      
     
       
      
       

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17

Whether it will be twenty-five
or seventy-five years hence we
do not attempt to guess, but
within that time it is almost inevitable that there will be a revolution or reformation behind the
Iron Curtain. The hope of the
world is that revolution will come
before Russia is prepared to wage
an offensive war. If the sands
of time run out on us, if we have
underestimated the ability of
Russia to wage war within the
next few years, then all hope is
lost, and civilization is doomed
to disgraceful destruction.

: Yours truly,
George Cross

“EXPORT”

CANADA'S. FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

Oxford Theatre

M. T W.
PURSUIT
THE BRUTE MAN
T.-F.. 8.
Alan Ladd, Brian
William
in
TWO YEARS BEFORE
THE MAST

CASINO

AN

Bendix

 

ODEON THEATRE

Starting Sat. 18th —

THE BROTHERS
With PATRICA ROCK
WILL FYFE

MAXWELL REID

@ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will

  
 
 
 
 
   

keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day tong. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
.the handy, convenient tube. Buy today. = j,

4-45

cts bi as hy?

¢..

hu

—%

=

x

»

 
