   

 

_

~~

lh

 

     
  
   
   
    
 
  
   
    
  
    
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
  
    
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 

 

 

Junior
Hoopsters
Take Lead In
Semi-Finals

— SEE SPORTS

 

Vol. 79

 

  

 

 

Lelhotsée

  
 

a. COUNCIL FEE UP TO

GAZ

Bei ik

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

HALIFAX, N.S., FRIDAY,

COUNCIL BRIEF
ASKS INCREASES
OF FEE 10 $17.

A proposed increase of student
fees to $17, rather than the present $10, was brought before
the student’s council Wednesday
afternoon in a brief which was
released for Gazette publication
this week. The consumation of
three mionth’s time and effort
by members of the council, the
brief ably presents reasons why
the Students’ Council! fee should
be increased to $17.

A condensed version of the

brief:
_ In council budgeting this year
it has become abundantly clear
that finances available for carrying on the student program of
activities are mot sufficient to
meet the need. While there will
undoubtedly always be .need to
reduce to some extent any budget (people being what they are)
it still appears that there is 2
difference between the program
desired and the program possible.

This yeay the student council
is handling the largest amount
of money in its history. It hes

been found necessary to pare
budgets so that the program inay
fit the budget. When paring is
done to the extent that embarassment and friction are likely results those who handle the
finances and ‘those who request
finances are placed in a difficult situation.

Registration will fall off rapidly from its present peak so that
in a short time the estimated enrollment will be about 1200 students. Assuming, as we do, that
costs of materials and services
will not reduce in like manner,
we are faced with a_ problem.
Any fee increase is based on an
estimated enrollment of 1200.

There are two aternatives;
we can choose to drastically reduce our activities and program:

(Continued on Page 8).

F e
NFCUS President
s *# ‘
Visits Here

Bob Harwood, President of the
National Federation of Canadian
University Students, will visit
Dalhousie during his tour of Canadian Universities.

Mr. Harwood will arrive at Dalhousie Tuesday. Feb. 24, and will
spend Wednesday with heads of
various student groups. Hie

Wednesday evening, he will
-meet for a short session with the
Misra Council. | :

=F Ae j Non i Mh, j 4

, AtEm i net sisi

we

 

ne Aig
s 4°

 
 

 

 

ROSS McKINNEY
- Three of them 
 

U. B. C. VETERANS
CHALLENGE DAL
TO BABY CONTEST

Mister Veteran___do you have
ene of those $18-a-month babies
at home? If so, now is your
chance to find fame and possibly
fortune, according to an announcement by Tommy Giles,
President of the D.K.S.V.A., this
week.

 

Tommy has received a challenge—from the University of
British Columbia.

The challenge—U.B.C. Babies
are more beautiful than ‘those
.of any othe, University in Canada. The Dalhousie Veterans
have accepted the challenge.

The rules are simple. A local

contest will be held, judges will
be appointed by the Gazette and
the executive of the Veterans’
association. The judgement will
be decided on photos. Children
to be not more than two years
of age as of Feb. 29. Must be
children of student veterans.
Photos not smaller than 4 x 6
and not larger than 8 x 10. Not
tinted or colored. May be mounted or un-mounted. No identification to be on photo. Information about child and parents
‘to be included in envelope with
photo.

It has been decided to select
three babies from Dalhousie —
a winner, and 2nd and 3rd prize
     
 
 

oa? vn

ie It is hoped that prizes

 

 

 

 

HARRY
- Will Run 
HUDE

 

Arts Society
To Present
Strong Cast

The Arts and Science entry
in the Connolly Shield competition will be “Send Her Victorious’, a pharcial comedy by
Phillip Johnson, directed by Mrs.
H. Leslie Pigot, according to an
announcement by the Society
Dramatics Manager, Patsy Pigot.

The east of players will in
elude;

Edward Tracey ........ Ken Phelps
Sinhett ..Murray MaclInnes
Esta Cardew ..Moray Seegar
George Cardew ........... John Trim
Marion Tracey ........ Lorna Innes

 

will be given in the local contest, and afterwards the photos
of the winners will be mailed to
central Canada where they will
be judged in competition with
photos of U.BLC. Children.

The deadline for photos of
Dalhousie babies will be Thursday, Feb. 26. Photos are to be
forwarded to Gazette office, and
pictures of winners will be printed in Gazette.
(ecnsemeeepeemnnaenennneneetieneementneteenaeniaeeRERREERSTS

Beautiful Baby
Contest

 

In the Vets beautiful baby contest, prises have been donated
by the following:Capital Theatre:each winner.

Mayers Studios:- Framed colour photo for winner, mounted
coloured photos for 2nd & 3rd.

Birks:- Baby spoons

Kelly’s:- Baby bag

Wood’s:- Gift to be announced

2 tickets for

FEBRUARY 20,

1948

 

$17

| mae

 

 

Ned
Saturday

— SEE SPORTS

 

No. 16

 

OUNCIL CANDIDATES NAMED

 

THREE SIUDENTS
IN RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT’S JOB

 

JACK BOUDREAU

-For President 
CAMPUS KINGS
MEET STUDENTS

IN GYMNASIUM

Entries in the Dalhousie I.S.S
Committee’s Campus King Contest were introduced to the student body in the Dalhousie
gymnasium at 12.15 p.m. Tuesday in preparation for the competition which opened Tuesday afternoon. .

The Delta Gamma entry, Bob
MacDougall, was introduced by
Marg Eustace; Denne Burchell,
the candidate of the King’s College girls, was introduced by
Joan McCurdy; Bernie Creighton, Shirreff Hall’s diminutive
hope, was introduced by Jan
Thomas, and Don Warner, absent, was eulogised by Lilo Brown
on behalf of Alpha Gamma
Delta.

From now on, helpless Dalhousie students will be repeatedly confronted with small
metal cans with the inscription,
“Help the IS.S., and elect a
Campus King”. It need not be
said, that Dalhousie expects
each and every one to give his
utmost. As Dr. Kerr said last
week, “The cause is worthy”.

 

[s a child’s life worth one day
of yours? The Canadian .Appeal
for Children asks you for one
day’s pay to save a child’s life.
lease make your donation NOW.

fe ee

Three candidates for the annua!
Dalhousie University student
elections of members of the Students’ Council have cast their
hats in the ring for the presidential race, according to information available at press time.

The Arts and Science society
were first to nominate a candidate, in the person of Russ MeKinney, a commerce student, and
commerce representative on this
year’s students’ council. McKinney was first nominated by the
Commerce society, later by the
powerful Arts and Science group.
Second candidate entered in
the presidential campaigning was
Jack Boudreau, the choice of the
Medical society. A third year
Medicine student, Boudreau has
been at Dalhousie for five years,
during which time he has served
in numerous responsible positicns. For the past four years he
has been active in initiation
ceremonies at Dalhousie, and has
been chief Dalhousie Cheer-Leadthree years. He was

of the Social Committee of the Arts and Scieme
Society, and is this year Chairman of the Munro Day Committee for the Students’ Council.
He has held a myriad of other
positions and is one of the most
widely-known male students on

er for
Chairman

the campus—a nice fellow, too,.

his Campaign. manager says.
Last and by no means least
important in the running is Harry
Rhude, Law’s candidate, and
this year’s vice-president of the
Student Council. A veteran of
several year’s service in the Air
Force during the latest war,
Harry is married, and led the
first-year Law Class at the Law
School last term. In the early

months of the first term, when .

Council President Hamilton was
cut of the country, Harry officiated at Students’ Council meetings and did the job well according to reports from members of
the council.

Entered in the election campaign for the vice-presidential

- position are Bernal Sawyer, from

Arts and Scence; Bill Cox, from
the Law School, and Jim Purves
from the Med School.

Last year, campaigning was
fairly vigorous, but was practically non-existent in comparison to the wild pre-election
activities of early years at Daihousie. Voting by students reached a low ebb with less than 20
per cent of the student body
exercising its franchise.

as a

  
  
  
 
    
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
    
   
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
     
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
  

ee ee ne eee ee er
eee, Lai Aone eating hn ot

¥ ! a Pes , ash WP
fai 7 f ‘

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

  

  
 
      
   
   

eee

ae

;

AZETTE

NS CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
| * ‘ « * e
* Editor-in-Chief

LEW MILLER

‘Managing Editor Business Manager

BRUCE LOCKWOOD AL RUBIN
News Sports Features
JACK LUSHER BOB TUCK ART MOREIRA

Page Editors ,

PETER MINGO, JOE LEVISON, J. TRIM, SHERBURNE McCURDY
ANNE DeCARTERET (Literary)

Associates
BUD KINGSBURY, MARJ GOLBURGH, BEV HUNTINGTON
Circulation \ dak
JAN ROBERTSON, MANAGER, D. SADOFSKY, M. RITCHIE
JERRY JOHNSON, A. de CARTERET, BEV HUNTINGTON.
Photographers...DANNY SOBERMAN, DICK GLUBE, E. RICHTER
Proof Readers. MikXIAM GLUBE MANAGER, BETTY THOMPSON
D. SADOFSKY _

AsSistant Business Manager .....--.:.-:::cccecreescnerensereres ROBIN MacLEAN
Exchange Manager -2....0.-0..cc:cccccsessssssoeseseenneeteetenenenes PETER SEDERIS
RE Ee Ch CMe ie lady avssteeesseccuseenssttiMeles .. STU WALLACE

Reporters sets

PATSY PIGOT, BOB McQUINN. PHILLIP, SIMON — Dent Society.

 

Vol. 79 PRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1948 No. 16

CHILDREN IN EUROPE |

“Whoso shall receive one such little child in my
name receiveth me.” Matt. XVIII, 4
Those of us who remember the homeless waifs in
other parts of the world who mysteriously appeared during mealtimes will not soon forget them. Remember
the imploring eyes that watched every particle of
our food, the eves that made us choke on the food that
we needed in order to fight. Remember their eyes -- large,
frightened eyes that seemed not to know the meaning of
happy laughter -- the eyes of children who know not the
meaning of security and love. Of what significance 1s
the catchword, “Four Freedoms”, to them? Freedom
from Want -and they starve. Freedom from Fear - and
they fear the morrow. Freedom of Speech - and they are
toe young to be heard. Freedom of Worship -- and they
are forced to wonder at the idea of the goodness of God.
It is much too easy for us, in the warmth and comfort of our homes, to be so wrapped up In our own
selves that we forget their needs, But if there Is any
spark of goodness in us we shall not hesitate to help
them now. If we must think of ourselves, however, we
eannot hesitate to help them. The world is not so large
that we will not be affected by their suffering, and their
diseased minds and bodies for a cancerous growth that
‘must be remedied ere he body of the world is endangered.
As we pause to read this, children are dying. Perfhaps the small amount of change in our pockets would
mean the difference between life and death for many of
them. Exyen as we hesitate another innocent life has passed. And by the time the aid we offer will have reached
destitute countries, hundreds more will have passed beyond human aid. We cannot ignore these children. We
aust not hesitate. Their eyes are upon us.

EDITOR'S
“MAIL BOX

 

 

 

unlimited, numbe; of chances to
prove their point. During the
93 months that I spent in the
forces this fact was consistently and monotonously driven home
“Remember,” they used to say,

 

“NUFF SAID” “you have only got one

: chance. After that, brother,

Dear Sir: you’ve had it.” And, brother,
Well now isn’t this a far you have!

exy from the “nuff said” letter IN
of January 30, which described
me¢ as & misinformed student of

eurrent affairs? there are many more equally inNow that distortion and mis- disputable, equally undeniable.
information have been met and I+ is for YOU ALL to decide
eountered with TRUTH, FACTS, wherein lies the path of justice
end FIGURES, you feel the mat- and fair. play.
ter ia ripe for debate. Where your
pen has failed you feel that your
tong’je might succeed. Is ‘that

CLOSING THE SUBJECT
let me simply say this. I have
presented some of the facts;

Yours,

Loris V. Blofield.
Editor’s Note: This sort of
column-debating could go on interminably with little other re(Continued on page 8)

at? I regret that out of sheer
' principle I must decline the chalBenge. After all I don't think it
reasonable to give anybody an

      
 
   
 

  

Aunt Fanny's
Column

Published weekly for all the
little boys and girls at Dalholusie
school for children.

Dlear Children:

This week I was
through an old copy of a magazine published in a University, it
was called, I believe, the Harvard
Lampoon. In it I came across a

browsing

story, written in the authentic
tradition of most western uni
versities, which reminded me of
a recent incident which occurred
at our little school. For very little reason, I have called it:
Payzant’s Pecadilloes

You see, the other night I was
sitting in my suite, in something
of a brown study. As a matter
of fact I was wondering whether
or not I should have my study
done over in robin’s egg blue.
But I was rudely jolted out of
this pleasant revery when
door burst open and a large number of youths in gray flannels
and tastefully rumpled blue blazers burst into the room. They
were headed by my friend Geoffrey Pazant. “Listen”, said Geotfrey!

the

At a gesture from him, the
boys grouped themselves in platoon formation, came to attentien, and tilted their chins toward
heaven. An ominous humming
sound filled the room. I watched
m horror, as Geoffrey tapped his
foot upon tthe floor, chan\Ning,
with the air of a man possessed:
*“One.....two.....three”’

Immediately the group burst,
or rather, oozed into song. Quietly, almost whispering at first,
then coming to ai thundering
crescendo;
‘““Boppem... boppem... boppem...
Get out and undevr....

Get out under....

Sometimes I wonder....

Who’s kissing her now,

I wonder who’s showing her how

How, how, oh tell me how

Do you get your clothes so clean?

I always wash them with Soapine,

S-O-A-P-I-N-Even though my
mammy,

Waiting for me, praying for me,

My dear old Mammmm.-ih,

I'd give the worldto... see her teday,

When [I get to that

Calif-for-ni-AY,

‘Where the sun keeps on shining
all day,

Qh what a beautiful mornin’,

Mh, what a beautiful day --
Glory, glory to Dalhousie,

I’m the sheik of Dalhousie

‘Till the last white sheep is passed.

We are poor little sheep who have

lost our way,

Bah, bah, a-a-ah.

Three white sheep,

Three white sheep,

They all run after the farmer’s

mother,

She cut their tails with a something

or other,

Three blind sheep.’

The singers stood at rest and
beamed. “Rest, men’’, said Geoffrey, “Smoke if you've got ’em.”’
He turned to me with enthusiasm.
“Well”, he said. “Well? Don’t
you think they’re terrific?’

“Terrifying would be a better
word” I said. “But what. are
tnev? “Wha~ does it all mean?’’

“It’s the Octet”, cried Payzant.
“Hottest thing in Dalhousie today. We call ourselves the Pecadilloes.”’

“I’m happy for you’, I said
politely. “What was wrong with
fhe Glee Club?”

“No, No,” he said. “The Pecadilloes are something en‘irely dif
(Continued on page 6)

 

Friday, February 20, 1948

16:

PLUS TAX

 

?

ye
Pot ea
es
ot
yo
ek Pn
So
CL PeR
>.
OLS ff 4A J Irn err

.
aa
ee

en) ee
- CIGARETTE TOBACCO _

 

 

 

   
         
 

OAL Be Be lE nececleacie ’ aie
PHARMACY | |EVANGELINE |
LIMITED

TEA ROOM |

| Commonly known as JOE’S |
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

ee

29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store
141 Hollis St.

   

|
|
Studley Drug Store

   

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

 

It is now a good slogan in peace:

“Say Schwartz and be Sure’. We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
der and Dried Fruit,

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841
oun © Ge oe ee ee ee

7

&

a L

\ lt was a good slogan in war.
ii

%

a a oo ee 2 *

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

Dalhousie WWniversity

Halifax. Nowa Scotia
Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

 

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science Mining Geology

re-Professional Courses

 

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

inclusive Fees in the B. Sc. course about $210.00 a year
in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many valualile scholarships, on entrance and through the cuurses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held iw |
February in any Maritime school. Special $6060.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History
The Professional Faculties

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion, Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence. Other meén students live in either ©
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved hoines
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service

students,

Meals for all students are available at the University. é
For full informatior wt:te to THE REGISTRAR.

 

 
 
    

 

   
  
   
 
          
   
  
 

 

 

 

At The Sadie Hawkin’s Dance

>

 

— A BIT OF DOGPATCH —

 

CANADIAN PRESS

SEEKS GRADUATES

 

Continuing a, practice establ
‘ ished last year, the Canadian

Press will be glad to have applications from students graduating from Canadian universities,
particularly from graduates who
have served on the staffs of the
various university publications.
The object is to bring into the
staff of this nation-wide co-operative a number of bright young
men who are seriously and enthusiastically bent on making
newspaper work their means of
livelihood.

A number of openings will be
available on the basis of a six
months’ trial period at $35 a
week. Those who make good will

be added to the permanent staff.
Selections will be made in

March or April from selections

submitted, for which forms are
enclosed. Each applicant will be
advised personally of the disposition made of his application.
Placement will be in the hands
of The Canadian Press but applicants may express a_  geographical preference in the space
provided for “Remarks or References.” Canadian Press
Bureaux are located in Halifax,
Quebec, Montreal, Ottawa, Torento (head office) Winnipeg,
Edmonton and Vancouver.
Application forms should be
returned direct by individual applicants befere March 1, with a
brief accompanying letter.
Further information may be
had in the Gazette office in the
basement of the Arts building.

 

= THE GALLOP POLLS

Conducted At A Fast Trot

By Pasty Pigot

The Gazette has not been unfair to the Glee Club, said most
of the students approached by
Gazette researcher Patsy Pigot.

Only a very few objected to
the many write-ups, and the main
“kick” was that there was too
much Glee Club in the paper.
When asked the question “DO
you think that the Gazette has
been unfair to the Glee Club?”,
students replied thus:

Fran Doane, Junior Arts: “‘No,
I don’t think so. Not as much
as last year, anyway. They are
taking consideration of people’s
feelings at least.’

Joan Stoddard, Senior Arts:
“No. It's all been fonetructive

| atitrcie 43) \ !

——
_ Lois Battie. Senior Since:

fair. They haven’t run anyone
down.”’

Gerry Cragg, Soph. Arts: “Yes
they ‘have been!” |

Randy Q. Mattocks, 2nd Premed: “No, I don’t think so, but
there hasn’t been any construetive criticism. The criticisms
should really give the Glee Club
a little incentive to work. It
would be a good idea to have
a picture and a short write-up
of those who have taken part
in a number of productions.”

Barbara Lohnes, Soph. - Arts:
“No I don’t think so. They have
a column every week, what more
do they want?”

Bob Mac Dougall, Soph. Commerce: “No! And I don’t see
why they should take on that
es feeling. ”?
ene on ‘page 8)

a

HALIFAX, N. §. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1948

  

A LITTLE BIT OF DOGPATCH

Hillbilly Costumes Win

 

 

Arts, Science
Dance To Be
Held In Gym

The annual Arts and Science
dance, originally slated to be
held in the Nova Scotian Hotel,
will be held in the lower Gymnasium at Dalhousie University
Friday, Feb. 20, according to an
announcement by Arts’ and
Science Dance Committee chairman, Robert MacDougall.

Denne Burchill’s band will
supply the music for the affair,
and twenty blind dates will be
on hand from Dalhousie to dance
with the girls of the Mount Allison and Acadia girls’ basketball tournament on the same
date.

Chaperong for the evening will
be the physical directresses of
Dalhousie, Acadia and Mount Allison. Committee in charge of
the dance is composed of Bob
MacDougall, Jessie Morrison,
Marge Goode and Sherman
Zwicker. Dancing from 9-1.

Student rit.
Group Hold
Annual Meet

 

The second annual meeting of’

the Progressive Conservative
Student Federation will be held
in Kingston, Ontario over the
weekend of March 6 and 7, according to an announcement made
by William L. Archer, President
of the Student Federation at a
meeting of the McGill Progressive Conservative Club -in Montreal today February 17.

Delegates are expected from
a number of the Progressive Conservative Clubs which have been
formed on campuses all across
Canada, and they will meet to
discuss political activities at the
different Universities. The Young
Progressive Conservatives of
Kingston, under the chairmanship of Kenneth Binks will be
acting as host to the visitors.

John Bracken, M.P., National
Leader of the Progressive Conservative Party will address the
students at a Luncheon meeting
on Saturday at the Lasalle Hotel and several other members
of Parliament are expected to
be in Kingston, including J. M.
MacDonnell, P. M., President of
the Dominion Association, K.D.
Fulton, M.P., President of the
Young Progressive Conservatives

The Dalhousie gymnasium suggested a “little bit of Dogpatch”
at the annual Sadie Hawkins’
Dance held last Friday night by
the Delta
mark the end of Co-Ed Week

Gamma Society to

on the campus. No less than
seventeen ‘“‘Lonesome Polecats”
were on hand -- costumes similar

to those worn by the comic strip

characters, Daisie May, Li'l Abner, Sadie Hawkins, Chief Rainin-the-puss, Marryin’ Sam, Mammie Yokum, and Hairless Joe appeared at the affair in profusion to compete for prizes donated by the Halifax Herald and
The Halifax Mail.

Among the prize winners was
Leah Tremain in a novel costume
reminiscent of the blonde beauty
from the North, ‘‘Tenderleaf
Erikson”. Prize for the best
man’s costume went, suprisingly,
to a girl, Louise “Tippy” Joudrey, one of the most popular
girls in the Hall, who was dressed
as Hairless Joe, complete with
big beard .Other winners were
Connie Conrad, Ukie Veleoff,
Anne Tompkins, Edith Hills,
Kingsley Churchill,

The Sadie Hawkins ball
brought to a close a week of
festivities on the campus in which
the girls played host to the male
students at bridge parties, dances
and general campus activities.
At the Sadie Hawkins’ contest
girls bought the tickets, corsages,
refreshments, and were responsible for paying taxi fair and for
lunches at Normans after the
dance (if any).

Judges in the contest were
Dr. A. E. Kerr and Prof. H. P.
Bell. ,

 

of Canada and Col. T. A. Kidd,
M.P., for Kingston.

Forming an active group which
is keenly interested in the Progressive Conservative Party, their
ideas will be put into resolution.
form and sent on to Ottawa for
consideration at the Annual
Meeting of the Dominion As
sociation which is being held later in April.

The Federation was set up last
March in Ottawa when students
representing nine different univrsity groups attended the annual meeting of the Y.P.C.’s of
Canada. The Federation is an
autonomous group, and is strictly a student affair. Othersmembers. of the executive are Allen
Lawrence, Toronto, Garran Patterson, Dawson College, St.
John’s Quebec; Hugh Henderson,
Osgoode Hall; Andre Ducharme
for University of Montreal.

Prizes At Popular Dance

 

Carnival To
Be Held At

Forum Soon

A gala ice carnival will be
sponsored by the Dalhousie 1.8.8.
if present

 

committee March 2,
plans are succesful, according to

an announcement by Bernal
Sawyer yesterday.
Big feature of the carnival

will be a hockey game between
the girls’ hockey team and a
team composed of members of
the faculty. Another feature of
the carnival will be a chariot
race, details of which have not
yet been released. Anyone with
an idea for the carnival is requested to talk it over with John
McCormick, physical director.

It is proposed to hold the carn
val at the Forum, March 2, from
6.30 to 9.30 p.m. Buses will carry students from Shirreff Hall
to the Forum, and back to the
gym for a dance after the carnival. At the dance, the Campus
King will be crowned, and re

sults of the student elections will

be announced.

Committee in charge of the
carnival is composed of Donald
Cross (Chairman), Bob Willett,
Laurie Allison, Robin MacLean,
John McCormick. It is proposed
that Nova Scotia Technical College will collaborate with Dak
housie on arrangements for the
carnival.

BEARD GROWERS
LED BY FOSTER

Male students of Dalhousie
University who fearlessly cast
aside theiy qualms of conscience
last week and entered the Munro Day beard-growing contest
are well on the way to full blown
beards this week,

 

Way out in front to date are
Fuzz Foster and Lyman Chipman
Chapman is developing into a
dark horse in his ability to keep
up with the highly-rated Fuzz
Foster. Other members are trail
ing the leaders, but a study
carried out this week indicated
that they were building up for
a last minute spurt. Anything
can happen yet.
ree
In one day of war, Canada, Britain and the United States spent,
over $112,000,000. This money
would give five million children
one good meal a day for a whole
year. Give GENEROUSLY io the
Canadian Appeal for Children.

ee

 
Tea
- 7 ‘ ries

k

eR at Sa
Da

Tee Soy PT ea eee Ne Pee ne sada tia iS il alll Sys
Wray WaT WA eI Ne be Pani MARRIOT CML CA | oh DW ie PUVA ed Re a EO
, aw ; i 7 ord mie ws . A T fh 7 £ GO a cae "4 * j nny a — E eon ay, }Y ae” - ‘i ij
. ¥ ad ; Jeet thy a Aipal at) fs Pe Ay eRe eB d
, ie ; Mae, a Zi ; ah Be ae ih op ee Us LEO ey

    
      

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Friday, February 20, 1948

TIGERS SWAMP D. B. C.
IN JUNIOR PLAYOFF

Dal’ [ DARTMOUTH JUNIORS OUTCLASSED
al 4 Gals |
9 AS DAL ROMPS TO 76-23 VICTORY
n

The Dal Junior basketball team started its drive for a possible
Dominion championship last Saturday night as they crushed the Dart
Sport

By Bev Huntingdon

 

 

&*

   

 

a

  

    
  

'

ee Bima ta Mt ;
i in Pry Yi 7 F
Lge Ri, xy, a p

 

 

 

 

don) BY BOB TUCK _

ace je DAY ES at ans 5 cna

 
  
  

   

mouth Boys Club, 76 to 23, at the Dal gym. Starting off very fast,

The annual (winter) safari (with
the Tigers built up an early lead in the opening minutes of the he

mu Sah
a : . .
this time) down to fair

ga | Saturday is the big game.
is | gnew shovels rather than elephant guns

 

é

 
 

 

=
_

BY

‘ q
att

 

i - Acadia for hockey, basketball, swimming and so on, is this week
mene

end, and we only hope the trip is as successful as last term’s
its _ memorable expedition. At least in the matter of establishing a
 ‘sertain amount of athletic supremacy. The weather is a bit tov

-' gold for painting this time

of year.
* * & & *®

would be playing the Bearcats — and idle on Saturday. That would
have enabled the Dalhousians on the Crescent’s team to be avail
 

D.G.A:C, shows great hustle
and activity in each branch of
sport this week. Basketball players from each team have all been

lost the two game total point
series by five points due to the

kame and coasted to victory. Dal simply had too much speed, poise,
and savvy for their opponents and the contest early turned into a rout,

The game was the
the Halifax Junior
the winner of the
championship. The

pretty pass play. Dal’s lead soared to 8-0 before Ken Mackenzie

first of a two-game total point playoff series in
League. It thus appears that the Tigers will face
Q.E.H. Wanderers playoff rdund for the league
Lizzies took the lead in the other round when

 

Dipe Marshall particularly noticable in this phase of play. The

ela, ital oh Nee busy with city league games.
Jo.  Due to the eussedness of the Crescents, Dalnousie is likely to yore wus an intercollegiate they defeated the Wanderers, 43-37, also at the Dal gym Saturday
Les be below strength for the hockey encounter. Somehow the Half ¢:... team match with Acadia night.
Rien Moons contrived to wallop Truro 11-4 — meaning that the Enscents ist) uselccend. from i whieh Dal Br Aa tect eda alle 4
will be playing in Moncton on Saturday. If Truro had won Crescents emerged victorious 18-11, but gored first Carnie hibtinen ork night with Jimmie Mahon and
scor St, SaOsse LIne

i pney pie Re ssa ae ee Ay i il le Acadia 24-17, The second teams youth's first goal. But the Har- reir needless to say, WAS ex- ’
Ke | v reason s ng : - -ellent.
Fe) Sek a! if will be every rea p ’ yine from Acadia and Mt. A. will jor Towners were very inept on are
ae Win over e emen. Pe er:
ie i a S . e ‘ iy 5 ie An Ae Ane ea their shooting and the Tigers Jimmie Mahon paced _ the
suit an ; OI 2 Acme me ER | OREM ate red hot in all departments of scorers with 1 ints,
rfp The basketball team has their work cut out for them. The oyeanother. Archery | tourna- Greet wre ku maT hts) potas hut | Syl
Natt Sy ; : : : n ; yery play, scored at will to hold a J4- Gossae was the star of the coni ‘Axemen won down here, but they didn’t look too impressive ether: |) sents’ will soon be’. underway be Si halftime. advantage tant.’ MaeT nie ue Me bene LE
is ks : Q 4 ‘ o -8 he divantage. test. 2 :
( Experience defeated inexperience in that game. However, a triumph 4.44 on Tuesday nicht a general intl ee ae ee A ¢
eth ever Tech. has followed the loss to Acadia, and the team has shown pxactice and try-out meet was The Gold and Black started Te Poa cnn he i eo
li definite improvement. Don’t be too surprised to see the Cold) Ohne ye a kl Dinonate baie <4, off in the second half with a i ees Oe etn ape
| ae eth . ing-pong norices, Wit! : vid passing. Ken MacKenzie was the
M Black hoopsiers turn in a win. hilauew nun ‘hetew. have aaany, sitine of, eight straight points, a
Sree tL AE LT ag s ; y ; sea outstanding performer of the los: ' ah h ma. and after Dartmouth hit for
pet names entere in the tourna i ers, and why he is not playin
| consecutive markers, the Tigers zg

 

Swimming has been posing problems. First of all there was the
trouble getting swimming time in a swimming pool, Now the

‘seen in many years. But the girls, sad to relate, have been dis
 

ments, and expectations are for
lively competition. A swimming

Monday, Wednesday and Friday

 

 

really went to town and poured

Tigers toy with the losers while

the Tigers is something of
a mystery. A good shot and a

for

bs ar en experiencing difficulty in get- ts dafinitely 3 ss in 17 straight points to, complete
i! nianagement of He cee es be p g oh g team is definitely in the making AR gs & x i HEEL P steady playmaker, MacKenzie
We ‘ting people into “the swim’. The boys have turned out in full at last, and practices for those ly swamp the visitors. The re- scored: |/18) alata! Mae bay Bios
i fore t togethe; a team the like of which Dal hasn’t  jnteres e — 215 vainer of the contest saw the i : ‘
f force and have pu gethey interested are at 1 245 on, mainer © Club and was easily the best

player for the losers. Scot Mor
 

   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

appointingly apathetic. With the exception of Marg. Eustace, this at the Y.M.C.A., and Wednesday continuing: to pour in the points. rison and Seater: (Beckett: wer ;
unseemly lack of interest has manifested itself from the manager night from 8.30 — 9.30 at the dcaivhi the. ieustie MeRaritRyy the ices Bae with Ticer re
is right down the line. The boys can’t win swimming meets all by tad pool. Although the gem us S play oe I mh yr iiger perthemselves; and right now its up to the girls whether or not th» ; ed at a sizzling pace throughout, rt raat DEY Hie MORE Baia Whale
. Dal Cuiine team sinks or swims, . ee the basketball became quite rag- exhibited good basketball.
fh Ber ‘ i Dal Clips King’s ged at times. The Tigers, how- The line-ups:- DAL- Mahon 18,
ai _. DISA & DATA: U.N.B. defeated Mt, A. Varsity hoekey 8-1 On Monday night the Dal Sec- SNe generally played a sparkl- Sie 15, bape 9, Beckett 9,
Be 62 Pe . , : ine game and if they can main- ‘naw 6, Rosenfeld 6, Marshall 4
Pes at Mt. A, last week. According to the Argosy, only the spectacular nds, after an outstanding per- Te aber AE law. \s MEGrcidaa te eae ee eres ld
wtiuatina. work of the Mt. A. goaltender kept the score down, and Mt. A. formance, walked off the floor ane a sola a eit i :. x Hu aaa eens x ea mie.
Es only had four shots on the U.N.B. net. The U.N.B. Brunswickian with a 38-21 victory over King’s. Re fee aa te fees Re vs Mull iAvoggeareyt teria
wah ealls the game “an exhibition of skillful playmaking versus rough- The first half was a battle prine- uaCry of a aaa Cann aes ee rie he 2 ere fy) Conya Oey ih A aka 1A) wists Guully between Marg. Eustace SP. SPONId be very, goed. Oe iar to!
iy on goal. Looks like the usual sort of disagreement between Mt. A. = and | Nancy Jones for scoring Conteonied She backbornds: 3). (ea aaa ee
UME PINES cosa ise. U.N.B. also won the Ski-meet held there points. At half time the score ”
recently ........ suc the Frederictcners really made a clean sweep was 19-17 for Dal. In the second Tall
of it when their basketball team dropped Woodstock 55-44. Wood- half, Dal pulled far away from h VLG the
tsock beat Mt. A. 65-64 .............. wot. Mary’s edged Acadia at the the King’s girls. Marg Morgan «thes 0
Forum on Saturday 5-4. Both teams looked pretty unimpressive. and Noelle . Barter were both “The Long
St. Mary’s showed considerable fight plus a few hockey players hurt in this half. The lineup of SS
_ like MacGillvray, Young and Larlee (helped by McCoombs and the game for Dal, which follows, /* ;
fiery little Joe Johnson), While Acadia showed a certain amount ig also the one for the interco!i} of comeback ability in the third period. On the whole though, it legiate games this week-end.
nik _- Wasn't the best hockey. Lineup: Mare Eustace, Barb --.as the Army
eit / -_ ee ey Quigley, Gvfen Lugar, Jean song goes
Bh ! * Noftle, Lib Doull, Rennie Fisher,
ie | Dal Batters Bridgewate Noelle Barter, Anne Tompkins,
| Th “th She Bay Ss Lois Rattee. Or just about every
| So Vasil F man-jack of you...
The Dalhousie Tigers ran rampant over the Bridgewater Comets Tigresses Win But Veterans, peaef the South Shore League in an exhibitiem hock ame played im .
Bridgewater Thursday Feb. 12, rolling up 2 Bee is ae a time Axettes Capture Title Ca oe
A im the game were the Comets able to cope with the smooth passing Dalhousie Girl’s Varsity bas- gs fee
iz of the Dal team, and most of theiy attacks breke up at the strong Dali ‘ketball team turned back Acadia ate the colorful
th defence. — 7 Axettes 13-11, but lost the pro- Reet of
hh The Tigers outshot the Bridge- first string Dal goalie, appeared a ee, ua ace
5 water cam 48-24, and outscored as co-referee. Ron Timothy play- hy yi 94 = ef cat iu Sen
them by margins of 4-1 in the ed 4 strong game in the Dal goal.’ eee ana or ‘e ai eG ,
Esty ed periods and by! 6-1 in wards were quick and sure, mak
the final frame. Outstanding for SUMMARY ree na ai a kt nate ree erty
Dal were Rosie MacMillan, who Burst, Period: PE ee ee OS
Seared five goals and was a tow- 1. Dal - Adamson en ea eRe uate tka Rave
i  e@- of strength on the rearguard 2. Dal - Knickle (Adamson) Bay Rone ie ,, Farrell cig ;
Was Ma\epokethecking, Bob Ad- 3. Comets - Gow first half. Outstanding for Dal- Shirts— famous Arrow col!ar (neatest-fitter extant)
Te) coved thaoe, pools 4. Dal = MacMillan housie forwards was - Margie SANFORIZED labelled — guaranteed never
And had three assists, and Windy) > ee A ee re dae rhea gp Tarn to shrink out of fit.
Raat baa, ‘ Shots - by Dal 23, by Bridge- 7 points. ¢ al guards played { f
Rca enrame rea ** cctulnt guns tut Berg Pe Tes —handsome- knotting, wrinkle repulsing.
ren Gow was the outstanding figure ‘ eo Bere: i eto Sa ae gen ee erent
x Pie | . Dal - Brown (Reardon) ing. Betty also playe orware See : ;
by nee Sa er 7. Dal - MacMillan for half the game and, together pancinanad ivan rsind 20 on Arrow shirts and
Dal played without Willy Ro- 8, Dal - MacMillan (Knickle) with Eileen Landrigan, gave the ain pei ane *
Be  Wyertson; Paul Lee and Rowlie 9%. Comets - Gow . line much needed height. ;
‘Frazee, but Zen Graves and Doc ley) eee Dal Lineup: Fran eae Pat Who sells’em? Your nearest Arrow dealer!
_ Morrisson made the trip and play- 10 Dal - Maloy (Knickle, Adam- Snuges, Eileen Landrigan, Marge
ga) Sisae) Yeanics, “Bridgewater. son) > | " O’Neill, Betty Petrie, Luey Calp, A R ROW SH
. had only one regular defenceman Shots - by Dal 11, by Bridge- Elsie Cruickshanks, Jan Cameron, IR TS
_ dressed, but the first line of the water 7 Verna Leonard. a ae a rei rt cea
Liverpool team was “imported” Third Period; Acadia lineup: Hawke, Chew, TIES « HANDK ERCHIEFS
: | for. the game. Versatile Bliss 11. Comets - K. Hebb (Hubley) Brooke, Brinton, Stirling, McLel" a is Re the moment (Continued on Page 8) lan.

de eek i ;

Pea 4 Stee HY Li

yas ee ~ ah rae
re 5 ee ST

 

 

 
_ February 20, 1948

= ‘ a A “oe yt ’ ;
; Po 1h) : 2 . PP
| 7: ef ' ey / ie ee :
e \ 3 3 Ff ’ x vf : ’
ee ‘ i . ; msi ' ,
PA ity, be. : > ;
r / 1 at ae : \
j f . :
wa r Sed wats i : >
Pueisy '
} ' f fy AA
{ — wa?
| ae
a
: net 7
4 4 = jy
i 7
ist f ,
A 4 3 f
A i a
wh
Ld i

:

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

oe WEEK-END GAMES

By _ PRESENT ROSTER: OF HOCKEY TIGERS
IMPORTANT GAME AT WOLFVILLE

Saturday is the big day of the term as far as athletics are
concerned with several Dal teams going down to Acadia to meet
the various Axemen aggregations of that university. The headline
attractions are the basketball and hockey tilts between the Dal
housie and Acadia Varsity teams.

Perhaps the greatest interest is being shown in the hockey
game. In keeping with this interest, the Gazette presents a thumbpresentation of the basketball team will be included in a future

Gazette.

Goal:

Bliss Leslie; The Blister needs
no introduction to Dalhousians.
Coming up from the Interfac
League, where he starred for
Commerce, Bliss has established
_himself as a first string goaler
over some very stiff opposition.
Colorful and spectacular, ‘‘Legs’’
Leslie come to Dal from K.C.S.

Ron Gwynne Timothy; Ron,
r “Tim” as he is better known,
wes last year’s Varsity netminder, and in the games he has
worked this year, Tim has turned
in fine perfrmanzes. Best when
the chips are down. Tim was a
main factor in the early season
Win over Acadia. Came to Dal
from Q.F.H.

Defence:

Rosie MacMillan: A product of
Cape Breton. Rosie has had a
very bright hockey career. Hie
played in the Cape Breton Senior League Wefore joining the
St. John Beavers last year. Rosie
is an effortless worker, a standout both on the offense and defence. His poke-checking has
been the feature of many Dal
games.

Windy O’Neill; Windy’s hoe
Se

|The best indoor and outdoor

sporting equipment

is found at

THE SPORTS
LODGE

86 GRANVILLE ST.

“Play More — Live Longer’”

—_

key history is familiar to every
one. He played with the Quebec
Aces. Toronto St. Michaels and
topped it all off ‘with two years
with the Toronto Maple Leafs,
playing on one of their Stanley
Cup teams. Windy has held down

right wing and defence posts.

with the Halifax Crescents
the past few years,
year coached the Dal
squad.

Rowie Frazee: Rowlie, a product of St. Stephen N.B., is one
of the Dal squad’s mast steady
players. A fine rusher and a good
blocking defenceman, Rowlie is
a tower of strength on the team.
and this year is Senior Student

for
and last
hockey

at King’s.

“Queenie” as
is the

Kingsley Mont:
the malicious call him,

‘smallest. man on the Dal team.

but is most at home in rugged
going. He is the brother of Jim
Mont, well known pitcher in
Maritime senior baseball.
Forwards:

Paul Lee; Paul came to Dal
from Q.E.H., and this year is
(Continued on page 8)

"AL LOL
“DANCING  WASiated

| SATURDAY

NIGHT” js 3 4
irs HALIFAX

“Don Warner
Orchestra”’

9 p.m. to midnight
$3.00 per couple
Supper optional

Visit the new WILLIS store — Attractively set up depart- |

ments featuring —

BOOKS - RECORDS - MUSIC - ELECTRIC APPLIANCES
PIANOS

Willis Piano

127 Granville St.

Co. Limited

(at Duke),

HALIFAX, N. S.

THE MARITIME LIFE
STRENGTH AND PROGRESS

Year
1927
1987
@ 1947

Assets Reserves

$ 490,242
2,317,808 1,921,027
6,679,711 5,690,753 35,674,317

Bus. in Force
198,694 $ 5,037,621
15,493,749

The total Premium Income for the year
amounted to $817,412.69. Interest In
some amounted to $248,259.27.
of interest realized was 4.02% on

The rate
the

Book Value of Ledger Assets. The Assets
of the Company increased 9% during the

past year.

A. R. FRASER, C. L. U.

BOB HART

Manager Nova Scotia Branch
_ Green Lantern Building, Halifax, N. S.
___ Telephone _

_3-8745

. veted awards.

TIMMIE...

Shown above is Ron GwynneTimothy who is waging a _ twocornered battle with Bliss
Leslie for the Dal goal-tending
job. Tim was Varsity netminder
last year after starring in the
Q.E.H. goal in high school. Tim
has played most of the exhibition games as well as the first
intercollegiate game with Acadia.
He is particularly adept with his
hands,
thing around his feet.
.the . Dal

situation offers is one of choos
Bliss likes anyThe only
. goaltending

whereas
problem

Ing from among a number of
good goalies.

CAMPUS
ROU N DUP

By Joe Levison

“Hey Bill, lemme carry your
stick, * I only need seven more
bits for ag major “D’’ and I hope
to have one by the end of the
hockey season’. Little
Tucker who ushered at several
hockey games was also another
hopeful in the same predicament.
Down the other side of the street
“Giggey” McKeigan, a silver “D”
dangling from his vest was strutting along behind a filly who
was also wearing one of the coWhen asked about the awards of McKeigan we
replied that he was a strongman
for both the English and Canadian football teams, almost recieved a bill from the DAAC
for destruction to goal poasts,
had incurred several minor injuries, and all in all given his
all for Dal.

Naturally my questioner
thoughts that the filly who also
had one was quite a lady but I
was forced to tell him that she
had sung in the chorus of the
glee club for three years, had
kept out of*the mud on the playing fields and had a hell of a
lot of fun while doing it.

May we go further and repeat

(Continued on page 8)

COMMERCE SQUAD
EDGES STAD 4-3

In their second exhibition game
of the week, played on Friday,
the Commerce hockey squad
downed the Stadaconna Gunnery
and Torpedo School by a score
of 4-3. Bolstered by such Varsity stars as “Legs” Leslie and
Bill Brown, the Commerce men
generally outplayed their opponents in a rough and ready rame.

Tommy,

INTERFAC NEWS|

By
Bob McQuinn

HOCKEY

KING’S 3 LAW 1

The King’s College entry in
the Dal Interfac Hockey League
outplayed Law at the Arena Monday to gain a 3-1 decision and
virtually assure themsélves of a
berth in the loop playdowns.

SUMMARY
First Period;

1. KING’S — Mborrisson. 2.
KING’S—Morrisson. penalties —
Meldrum (holding)
Second Period;

3. KING’S—Harlow
Third Period;

4. LAW — Hart. penalties —
Coles (tripping), Wilson, Math
eson (roughing).
* ™ i %

(Piggott)

COMMERCE 4
ENGINEERS 0

In a hard fought, somewhat
one-sided game the high flying
Commerce squad bolstered by
“Legs” Leslie in goal downed the
luckless Engineers 4-0. The best
man on the ice was Zen Graves
cf Engineers who played a hard
checking, fast rushing game.

SUMMARY

First Period
. Commerce—Scheafer

Second Period
. Commerce___Prime

(Crowell)

. Commerce—F'redrickson
. Commerce — MacDonald
(Schefer)

a % * *

PHARMACY 2
ART & SCIENCE 1

In one of the best games
played by the teams of “B” league, Pharmacy squeezed a 2-1
victory out of a hard fighting
Arts & Science squad. Again the
spot-light goes to the goalies as
both Beer for Pharmacy and
Cochrane for A.& S. were outstanding. Morris was the best
man on the ice as he netted both
Pharmacy goals. MacKinnon and
Feron played good games for the
losers.

SUMMARY

lst Period
No Scoring

2nd Period
No Scoring

3rd Period
. Pharmacy —

Kinnon)

. Pharmacy — Morris
. Arts & Science

(Smith)

Referee—Zen Graves.

Morris (Mac(Carson)
Crosby

Ed Crowell scored the winning
goal with but one minute left
to play and played an outstanding game throughout. Paul
Parmer, who is developing into
one of the best rushing defencemen in inter-faculty hockey,
played a bang-up game on the
Commerce defence.
SUMMARY
First Period
. Commerce
(Crowell)
. Commerce —- Crowell
rickson)
. Commerce—Brown
Second Period
. Stad—MacNeil
- Stad—Moore (Gardner)
6. Stad—MacNeil (MacInnis)
Third Period
- Commerce — Crowell (Anderson)

Fredrickson

(Fred
BASKETBALL

% * “* * *

ENGINEERS 33
COMMERCE 48

Engineers again failed to step
into the winning column as Cammerce led by Creighton, Rogers,
and Morrow swamped them by
a 48-33 score. High scorer of
the game was Smith of Engineers who got seven points in the
first haif and eight in the second
for a total of 15.

Lineups:- Commerce-Ogilvie,
MacKinny, Comeau-6, Morrow11, Rogers-10 Kerr-9, Creigh
ton-12,

Engineers:- Lindsay-6, Smelt<
ser-8, Smith-15, Oakly, Stewart
Messenger, Jeffreys-2, J. Mor
row-6, Thomas-2, Fergusson.

* % * * *

ARTS & SCIENCE 31
PRE-MED 20

The luckless Pre Meds were
again kept out of the win column
by the Arts and Science squad
as the latter handed them a 31I=
20 defeat. High scorer of the
slow, close checking game was
Ian Henderson with 14 points.

Lineups:- A. & §, Knight-2,
Saonders-2, Levison, Stewart,
Feron-5,_ §S. Henderson-2, MacCurdy-4, Beckett, McCabe, Doig,
I. Henderson-14, Tracy-2.

Pre Meds:- MacMillan-4,
Hughes, Dauphinee-2, MacCara-t,

Beer-3, Sarantes-7, Cruse.
shankes-3 ‘oO.

+ * *% as

MEDICINE, 43
LAW 31

Medicine stretched their lead
over the second place Lawyers
by another two points as they
defeated the latter 43-31 last
week. Law led at half time as:
the score stood at 19-12 but paced by Morton, the Meds outseor-.
ed their opponents 27-12 in the
second half to take the game.
handily. High scorer of the game
was Morton of Medicine with
i8 points.

Lineups:- Meds:- Foster-7,
Vair-2, Algie, Ashley-6, Morton-.
18, Macleod-6, Ross-2, Moffatt.
2, MacDonald, MacGregor.

Law:- Hart-10, Davis-2, Roddam-3, Hannington-6, Eaton-2,
MacKelvie-2, Churchill-Smith-5,
Wilson-1, Grant.

x = * * a

ARTS & SCIENCE 37
DENTISTRY 31

Arts and Science won a close
2(-383 desision over the low dents
last week in a fast, rough game
that saw thirty-five free throws
given. Score at half time stood
at 18-19 for Arts and Scienee
with the Dents outscoring their
cpponents 18-20 in the second
half.

Lineups:- A.&S, S. Henderson-6,
Tracy-1, Knigh+-6,
I. Henderson-7, Doig.

Dents:- Taylor, Carson-?,
Cook, D’Arey-7, MacKenzie-6,

Belliveau, MacMurdo-6, Peters-4,
Deware- 2.

Saunders-3.
MacCurdy-?
Banman-#,

 
 
 
 

ee

   

  
 

i
on

eal

/

 

 

 

a
aaa
y a

ae

er en ee ae ee aie nen cae eae
‘ G x

eee sk eo io Teer rs en ey yee of ra yor ”
haa ee PARE fh Ne po Selsce ath) rp bis sk Se esy ede by Jy bn daw MAIO bbe gEBS deve P11 DEN UB, ih viele fas
et ¥ 7 ed +

CHINA

 

My strongest memories of China sweep over me when I hear
of places such as Yuyuyen Road, Sintow, and Hongchow, for

mames i
then { seem to be able to smell the awful yet ever present stenches 1 always thought must exist every-where in the world, and I can

see the rickshaws passing by, and hear the beggars’ perpetual
My life there was the normal one for an active foreign younger, amd thought brings back so many nostalgic memories.

a,

Funeral Customs

Que of my favorite past-times was running away from my amah
er Chimese nurse. This was never hard to do, since her feet had been
bound simce early childhood, and were approximately the size of
mine when I was five years old. On these tiny crippled limbs, she used
to hobble about after me, but it was never hard to judge her pace,
and stay just out of her reach. When I managed to evade her, I loved
ta go where I could watch a Chinese funeral, as 1 was utterly fascinated with the strings of professional mourners who made up most
of the precession. All were dressed in white, or their version of it,
all wailing, screaming, crying out, moaning, pulling thei, hair and
beating themselves with flailing arms, - each like a woman “wailing

for her demon lover.”

i tikked the funeral! music too, which was supplied - if it was a
edcemt funeral at all — by about three different chinese bands all
playing different music at one time. The musician® adored trying
to impress foreigners with thei, ability on these occasions, and each
band wauld intermingle “John Brown’s Body” half a dozen times
with the regular Chinese musie, as though it were ‘par excellence’ in
taste fo, funeral music. The open coffin containing the body of the
deceased was then placed in a special constructed miniature of a house,
just big encugh for the coffin, in some open field. Then came the
part J particularly loved, when the joss men or Buddhist priests burnt
paper dragons and incense as the wailing crescendoed, while crocodile tears trickled down, forming the only clean lines on the filthy
faces of the mourners.

Street Inhabitants

When I close my eyes tight and concentrate, I often feel as
though i were back on Bubbling Well Road walking with Amah. The
isdewatks used to be littered with beggars — each with some infirmity - many of which were self - inflicted. Some kept gouging
themselves with filthy instruments until perennial oozing festering
sores were formed. Others removed an eye oy blinded themselves,
while sti#l more broke a few bones and set them to heal so that they
would be crippled. Pathetic sights though were the beggar children,
with wide, wild dark eyes and skinny frames, who knew only the
following words of English as they stumbled after us with hands open
to recieve money “No b’long havee Mama; No b’long havee Papa,
No can catche. Whiskey-soda.” Also along the streets, victims of
horrible tropical diseases could always be seen in various stages approaching death, and I call to mind one case especially - that of a

Chinese in the last stages of elephantitis, completely swollen beyond recognition, and running with evil sores. You come to accept
what you are accustomed to seeing, however; and the only feeling
i can ever remember is one of wonder and interest as 1 saw a new

version of disease and misery.

Chinese Food

People seem to find Chinese food interesting to hear about,
but when presented with the opportunity of actually having some,
they usually tern a few unbecoming colors and decline cum gratis.
I was brought up on both European food - roast beef and so on, and
also om Chinese food, which I decidedly preferred, and still do. At
a Chinese banquet, a bowl! of piping hot rice is brought in, a set of
chopsticks, and then you are set loose on the bowls of accompanying fodde, with which you cover the bowl of rice, and then garnish
with Chinese sauces. The dishes of attraction mumber anywhere up
to twenty oy thirty, and include such delicacies as sour-sweet pork,
bean - sprouts, bamboo - shoots, water chestnuts, pilau (fried onions,
peanuts, and rasins all together), pickled or fresh fish eyes, cocks
combs, and many different other ones.

Fishermen a

We often used to see groups of fishermen, each with a bamboo
pole about sixteen feet in length, balanced on either shoulder. All
vleng the poles were hooded cormorants, each with a metal ring around its neck, and a long length of hemp frem the ring to the bamboo. When the fishermen reached a suitable creek, they unheoded the
hungry cormorants which immediately went after the fish. When
one managed to find a suitable prey, and tried to swallow it, the
metal ring kept it from going down. The fishermen, seeing-the struggline bird, would pull it in with the line, extract the fish from the
eormorant’s throat, and send the bird off again. Chinese are also
great believers in noise attracting fish, and ] have frequently seen
men fishing while their comrads kept up am unholy and deafening
roar on the banks of the stream.

Seme people think the Chinese are simple people, others thmk
that they are very complex, and | for one, can’t fathom the mechanism of their minds, | can only produce the memories | have from my
childheod there, and hope that they may be as interesting to others
as they are to me.

NN NS SS

All schools in Poland were closed
during enemy occupation, so
that there are boys and girls of
fourteem years of age who cannot yet read and write, Give
them the tools /they need for
education, by helping the Canadian Appeal for Children.

 

One half of all the children who
have been born in Europe since
the end of the way are now dead.
These babies are the future
citizens of the world. Keep them
alive by giving the food they
need through the Canadian Appeal for Children.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

ioe

    
  

MYRTLE | WouLdD (T BE

  
  
   
    

  

iImpaoPER Fek ME TO Ir wowed BE

      
    

DESiNniteN ovT

   

Kiss “Souk Hand ?

coe CKACE !

  
 
    

7}
WS

ANN

   
  

     
   
 

   

J

 
 
   
    
 
 
     
     

WW
<

 
 
 

  
 

 
 

 

RY, ( o¢ pS . = SST, _—
SS Uff a, tn pe Sffrrrry ae
Be \V// YU Pm MTS
PY/ YUMA "\W/Ule S|
Ww fh , f hte ae
{ = a —- =SSS

 

 

a ==
a |
ie

SS Sco

™~ . NS ~ SS
: SS ES
we :

 

Co-ed News And Views

Now that the girls have had theiy fling the boys can take over
again and the Dal Unicorn can breathe easily -- for a year at least.
Friday the thirteenth may be considered unlucky by some, but all
the L’il Abners at the Sadie Hawking dance were very fortunate
to have received an “invee-tay-shun” to one of “th’’ most brillyant
sushul events o’ th’ season!’”’ With the great ingenuity developed
after years of scientific thinking, Tippy dreanjied up a rig that one
first prize at the famous (or infamous) S. Hawkins dance. Tippy
is just a natural for Hairless Joe!

Now that our week of gay frolic and festivity is over, we are
going to turn our energies to making the I.S.S. campaign a success.
The King of the Campus has to be elected, and a battle royal is
sure to result. We'll penetrate into every nook and cranny which may
yield a nickle for the cause.

“Pinafore” practices are making the Gym the Glee Clubbers’
second home. The catchy Gilbert and Sullivan tunes are habit forming! Good, quiet, inoffensive, law-abiding Shirreff-Hallers are slowly
going mad as they hear constant renditions (somewhat off-key) and
with new, modern improvements on the words.

Lamps have been burning in the wee, small hours of the morning. Is it possible that those exam lists have scared one or two people into studying? Oh-oh --- I know when to stop!
ses ssssseinessseeseenssnsarseneeev~nenensseniemeeenns
Ninety per cent of all the teachers in Greece were killed to
prevent them teaching the lessons
of democracy. The Canadian
Appeal for Children puts books

Thousands of children in the
world are hungry, cold, and sick.
Are they the kind of citizens we
will want in the world of tomorrow? Help the Canadian Appeai

and pencils into jhe hands of for Children bring strength and
health to
citizen.

thousands
children.

of knowledge-hungry these future world

 
 
   

Lb VPougs
| Age gla

Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

 

 
  

_ Friday, February 20, 1948

Aunt Fanny

.. (Continued from page 2)

 

ferent. We are a group of congenial people, composed of People You Know.” 6

“But what’s the necessity for
it?” I asked.

‘Necessity?’ Payzant exclaimed. “Why we love to sing. We
got rhythm, that’s all.”

And in a twinkling of an eardrum, the Pecadilloes were singing again.

‘No,’ Geoffrey” I cried, “Not
again! Please stop them.”

With a sereeching of vocal
eords .the musical Juggernaut
eround to a stop. Payzant stared
at me in wounded bewilderment.

“Alright,” he said, “If that’s

the way you feel about it...”
“TI feel that ve suffered e
nough for one evening,’ I said,
haughtily. “And what’s more,
I’d like to point out.that there

are at least ten men in your
octet. not counting Pauley there,
who stands with his mouth open

and doesn’t sing.”
Payzant drew
his full height. ‘“‘Mathematician!’

himself up to

he cried. “Philistine! you have no

music in your soul.”

“You'll heay from us,” Payzant promised grimly.

And hear from them I did,
They banded together to produce an operetta. Every night
they practice. On every street
corner, in every class, in locker
room and lab, in barroom and
bistro, wherever two or more of
the Pecadilloes come together,
there is a lifting of voices in song.

 

SEEDS OF DESTINY

 

Due to the cancellation of
last Sunday’s §.C.M. Open House,
the film “Seeds of Destiny” will
be shown at the Open House
this Sunday, Feb. 22, at 8.45
P.M. in the Men’s Common Room.

NEXT weekend Dr. John Korefus Smart, graduate of McGill
University, missionary in Sierra
Leone, and at present studying
Tropical Diseases at Harvard,
will be our guest. Plan to hear a
man who will have much to say
of interest to every student.

 

Did you feed your cat this morning? That milk would be a threeday ration fo; a baby in Poland.
These babies will be given the
food they need for life through
the Canadian Appeal for Children.

Refreshment

arrives

COCA-COLA, LTD.
HALIFAX, N.S,

   

 

 

 
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
      
   
    
   

i

AN. Gera wie QUITE WEEKEND HAVING been spoiled be the Glum Club celebrations in

~the Gym on Sunday afternoon, where Payzant’s

_peccadilloes were whopping it up on Chamber-Pot, the

Unicorn woke up on Monday with a worse hangover |

than was usual. He dimly remembered insane cackling coming from the Arts building, where MacBrew
gal (of the internationally know Dew) and Word (of

no distinction at all) had been laughing at their own

show for: Munro Day.

Monday dawned, as it always does, with the dull
prospect of a long week ahead, and the Unicorn streched and went out. In the gym store he encountered the

usual crowd of the, bobby-soxer variety recoveiling

from the effects of Sadie Hawkin’s week, and hastily retired back to the Gazette office. There he saw
the famous G. 8. McCrudy pounding Hell out of the
local Citizen’s Christian Temperance society or something of the sort, who had stopped a benefit hockey
game because it interfered with their digestion of the
sermon. Silly excuse, the Unicorn thought; These

damned puritans.

Inside the office the Gazette
staff were receiving offers of
bribes for the fortheoming Council. elections. There were big
bribes and little bribes. The big
ones, of course, take precedance
over smaller offers. The Gazette
seemed to be doing a roaring
trade. The Unicorn had come to
eppreciate the way in which the
Gazette handled thpse matters.
their motto was “No Credit” -painted on the wall in 72 pt.
Gothic caps. The ward bosses
milled around the door, plugging various men for various
functions, all with a small contribution for the Gazette’s “cut
fund.” ;

The procedure is quite unique.

After taking their money, the

Gazette hoof the ward bosses

out of doors, and then burn all

as the old Gazette song goes.....

“We will lock ourselves in to the
office,

While the ward bosses pound on
the door,

And with glee we will gather
their pages of blather

And burn it all on the floor.”

/ourneying thence to a meetink of the Low Society in the
Low School, he heard the chairman C. Ham. Psmi-h exhort the
i. ore leaders of Dalhousie to

rve their duties to the Low
s ict and, in particular, to see
there was a supply of beer
-t.er condiments on hand
‘imes to relieve the pangs
ice-Presidents of the
Low society, and so on. Another
i Mem on the agenda
e'eciion of the Campus
to represent the Low soc= the forthcoming competition. It was announced that the
boys would probably get
left out, since no female eandidae Low enough (ha, ha!) could
be found. Nevertheless, said the
low society. Find us a candidate.
And so they did.

The Unicorn returned to the
Gaze te and sought out the Editor, who was busy dodging the
Editor-In-Chief; finding him in
the Gym store. engaged in sendine Deadwood into hysterics with
filthy jokes, he drew him to one
side.

at all

“Er..my boy,” he began. “How |

about this Campus Queen business? What is ite exactly?”
“Well, sir,” said the Editor.
“Once a year they hunt around
and pick out women. If they find
a small number of good-looking
women among the hundreds here,
they line them up on the stage

and represent them to the out-—

#de world as “Typical Co-eds.”

_ Then they pick out the one who —
is far abouve all the others, and

si as the most typical co-ed;

day, erie 16. Finder please

 

DENTS

The Dents are back again.
First of all we exend our sympathy to Mr. & Mrs. Peter McCarron on their recent bereavement,

Kay Stacks (the sole female
dent) was elected queen of the
Mardi Gras. Congratulations Kay.
She has also been chosen as the
Dent’s Munroe Day queen.

-Bud Taylor has forfeited’ one
of his graduating pictures to Bev
foy the price of three dollars.
Bud insists that one musté@have
a financial understanding before
the romance blossoms too far.

Last week Lois Tanner was
visited by two friends from ‘“‘Lowey Solobovia’. Looking around
for dates she signed them up
with a couple of Dents. Hardy,
White and Cook took up the
challenge. Their only comnfent:

operations succeeded according
to plan.

Plans are being laid for the
annual Dent banquet. Joke?

G. I. Say, whatever happened to
those old fashioned girls who
fainted when a boy kissed them?

She: Whatever became of the
old fashioned boys who made
them faint?

(Edior’s note: While I was
at the Sadie Hawkin’s Dance at
the gym I noticed the fioor was
very slippery but the editor of
this column seemed to be having a hard time keeping on his
feet. Was it the floor that was
too slinpery Phil or had someone slipped something to you?
Don’t take it too hard - it is
better in small doses.)

CLASSIFIED ADS

PPB PBPPBPPOPPREPPRPPPEPP PPP P AD
Note: A demand from several
students for this type of advertising has prompted the GAZ
- ETTE to introduce this column.

For information re rates contact
either the Editor or Managing
Editor.

WANTED
A student vet is willing to pay
$5.00 for the information that
will lead to his acquiring a small

furnished apartment at the end

of the term. Information to he

forwarded to A-1, Classified Ads, 
c/o GAZETTE.

 

LOST
One _ slide-rule lost in the
vicinity of the Science Bldg. Mon
wey
1
i.e
Ihe

“THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

RELIGION or RELIGIOSITY }

ad

by Sherburne McCurdy

In the last two weeks Walter Callow, in
conjunction with the local hockey management,
completed arrangements for an All-Star hockey
game between ‘the stars of the lecal teams on
the one side and those of the Cape Breton League on the other. The proceeds of tne game
were to be for the Walter Callow Veterans and
Invalids’ Club. The game was to be held on
Sunday afternoon, Feb, 15th. Due to objections
raised by some of the more righteous citizens
of Halifax, the game was cancelled.

It is probably a fair quess that one seventh
of the wounded veterans at Camp Hill Hospital
received their wounds on a Sunday. On the basis
of that assumption it seems to me not unreasonable that efforts directed towards the betterment
of their lot should not have to be confined to
the other six days of the week. The game of war
is one that is played seven days a week and twenty-four hours a day. It may even be remembered
that the most crucial day of the battle of Britain
was on a Sunday, September 15, 1940. I recall
hearing a minister on that evening asking his
congregation to thank God for the bravery and
determination of R.A.F. pilots. Why then should
a project, designed by one of the inmates of
Camp Hill to improve the conditions of his fellow sufferers, be cancelled because some of the
good burghers of Halifax, led by their clergy,
eannot find it within their Puritan consciences
to approve of a Sunday hockey game?

The occasion for these remarks lies in the
cancellation of a proposed hockey game between
the local All Stars and those of the Cape Breton
League. Walter Callow cf Camp Hill sponsored

 

the idea, intending that the receipts shoald go
to the Walter Callow Veterans and Invalids Club.
Mr. Callow’s attitude, and activities are highly
commendable and deserve more consideration

from physically healthy MHaligonians than has

been accorded in this instance.

It is quite possible that many of those people
disapproved of the proposed game would be quite
happy to go out on a car drive on Sunday afternoon, provided the roads weren’t teo’ icy. The
same people would probably listen to an appeal
from the pulpit on Sunday morning for fun@s
for the Children’s Aid or a like society with no
compunction whatever. I wonder if the objectors
to this scheme would send a dollar, or more, to
the fund for which the game was proposed? I
dare say many would not. Why pay out cash
when your conscience has been soothed free of
charge? One would think that the best way to
voice a personal objection to such a breach of
the Sabbath would be to refuse to patronize the
game. In that way the sensitive conscience would
remain clear without the rights of others having
been infringed upon. I leave it to the reader to
decide which is the more Christian of the two
alternatives, that of preserving the sanetity of
one conception of the Sabbath day by objeeting
to the game, or that of upholding an age-old tra
dition among Christian people of helping one’s

fellow man. “How much then is a man better
than a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do well
on the sabbath days.”

Editor’s note: The Editorial board of the Gazette wish it to be known that they endorse wholeheartedly the opinion’ represented in this article.

.

"Now there's a pretty picture ™

“Mmm ...a perfect Sweet Cap silhouette.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked ™

i >

Be. meee ¥ fi : A t
D ary be iy iw eye i \ i
te ae ie othe Si aiid = ‘— aie a. is + %
{ a +i a ; on
Lanes Lf id wh an ladda LS tid Li

    

i
‘ ¥
Shir |

 

 

~*~

 

ats
2°
* pay

Sis

ae
Wy

ee.

a

Se

 

1h

mee
Py

am 4

eA
Shee 2 Ut
‘ fe ‘vt
pt

ae 1)

j ¥
E

(Continued from Page 2)

 

eult than that animosity could

7 ie Wrbeaséd, to the interest of

onlookers, between the partic
i} pants. In future any letters of

interest will be

shown to all parties concerned
po that rebutals, or defences,
might be printed in the same

issue.

Wye iS), e *

Dear Sir:

*
With reference to your editor
jal, “Progress in the Glee Club”,

I feel that an injustice has been

done to the small group of re
_ liab&es upon whom the burden

ef producing the plays mentioned has fallen. In addition consideration has not been given
to several poignant facts concerning Dalhousie’s dramatic endeavours, and the whole tone set
by this as the climax of other

Similar articles is most lament
able.

The executive of the Glee Club
and their faithful few workers
face a tremendous task in the
preparation of any play worth
producing. Weeks of planning,
missed meals, hard work, and
neglect of studies, are part of

‘the price they pay for the satis
faction of a job well done. Taking away the feeling of success
by ill-timed articles of this nature seems to me to be the surest
Way to destroy the future of the
wrganization.

During the last three year’s
I think that the Glee Club has
selected plays wisely from those
available. Dear Ruth, an est
‘ablished Broadway hit, can hard
ly be termed “poor material’. I
have seen the Broadway performance and state flatly that Dal
f housie’s Was better. The Glee

Club must produce plays with
public appeal. That is a prerequiste to “intellectual stimulus”,
emerging from the financial
Straight-jacket in Which it exists,

The college dramatics, as well
as choice of plays, is limited by

the abilities of student actors. .

Selecting the play and then looking for the cast is putting the
cart before the house. Acadia is
most fortunate to have produced
an Othello. I congratulate them.
It is regrettable that reviewers have been undully critical. J
believe that student opinion does
not coincide with the flood of
criticism in the GAZETTE, and
that the Glee Club, rather than
suffering a “periodic depression”,
is in the midst of a “boom”.
Sincerely,
Olin Gardner.

COUNCIL BRIEF

(Continued from page 1)

 

 

we can raise fees to carry on the
Same or higher standard of activities and program. We think

it highly undesirable that the

drastic cut apparently necessary

im activities be even contemp
lated or anticipated. As the
Maritimes’ largest University we
have standards to uphold in the
eyes of the University administration, the Alumni, the public
and the student body.

We have here outlined the

basis of ouy argument for an

inerease in fees from the present $10 to $17.

A resume of fees at seventeen major Canadian Universit
_ ies shows that the fees paid at

Dalhousie are the lowest, and
that the contemplated increase
will still leave Dalhousie among
the lowest. Of the Unfversities
surveyed, at least four are con
Gallop Poll

(Continued from page 3)

Joan Lawrence. Senior Arts:
“No! After all it’s supposed to
be a criticism.”

Jamie Mac Kay, Soph. Commerce: “No! They need some
criticism, ‘they’re not so good!’

Liz Doull, Junior Arts: “No,
I think their write-up of “Dear
Ruth” was very good, It’s about
time that they received a bit of
recognition for the work they
have done.”

Bob Kaill, Junior Arts:
“They've made restitution for
their former rough handling of
the Freshmen Show. I feel that
their riticism of “Dear Ruth”
was excellent!’

Sheila Mc Larren, Soph. Arts:
“J think that Shurburne Me
Curdy has written a lot of guff
about “Dear Ruth”. It’s not fair
to critize them before they put
the play son.”

Estelle Martin, Soph = Arts:
“They've been sort of biting....”

Bernie Creighton, Senior Commerce: “On the whole, no. In
regards to “‘As You Like It”, I
think it was more of an oversight than anything else.”

Jim Northup, 1st Pre-law:
“No, they have given them a
lot of valuable space. They got
a whole page for “Dear Ruth’,

Howard Pye, Junior Arts: “No,
I don’t think so, they have been
given pretty good write-ups for
their plays and other events.”

From a prominent member
of the Glee Club itself, the remark came that S. Mc Curdy’s
article was very good, and if
they say something nice about
“Pinafore”, “we'll forgive them
fo; everything.”’
elegy thoeinkriticeeeiidnertchseesti tieinicitiomipebionen ian
sidering increases. Seven feel
that their present fee is inadequate. McGill, with a $30 fee
and with much greater income
is at present in serious condition.
Practically all of these universities provide coaching services
in athletics and dramatics. Dalhousie students pay for these
services. Most of these universities have their own rinks. Next
fall when Mount Allison’s rink
is completed, all other Maritime
universities will have theiy own
rinks. Acadia, St. F.X., Mount
Allison, University of New Brunswick. At present ice time alone

costs the Dalhousie Students
Council more than $100 per
week.

While other universities figures can add weight to the argument for Dalhousie’s needs, we
Wish to stress our own case as
it confronts us.

In the light of what has }
said, we therefore recommend;

1, That the students council
fee be raised to $17.

2. That after a period of one
year’s time, the council, Senate
Athletic Committee and D.A.A.
C. discuss the situation in the
light of one year’s experience,
and decide on its future.

3. That all gate receipts be
handled by the students’ Council.

Submitted by:
Ross B. Hamilton,
President, Council of Students.

——_—_—
THE
GREEN LANTERN
RESTAURANT

“The sign of a good meal’
407-409 Barrington St.

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
CAMPUS ROUNDUP

(Continued from. page 5)

a conversation which took place
earlier in the year in the Gazette
office. A girl came in inquiring
how many points she would get
for proofreading foy the Gazette
for one year and when we

her four and said that she would
have to work hard two days a
week for twenty weeks of the
year, and would’nt get a “D’’ unless she did other Gazette work,
She left with a “I think I'll go
is now a member of the glee
club, that staid organization
which had seven more
warded than the other Four
cainpus organizations combined
this term.

All this gives rise to the fact
that if the ‘‘D”’s for the DAAC
which are not gained without a
large measure of “Blood and
Guts” are going to .mean the

same as glee club ‘“D’’’s which,

ean be gained in the warmth and
cleanliness of gym basements,
amidst cajolery and a sort of
non--urgent atmosphere, requiring littl. of the nervous and physical requirements cf athletics,
than the entire system of “D’ ’s
should be abandened. Therefore

I hope someone advoeates a
Separate athletic award, which
“could not be mistaken for or

placed in the same class as the
Glee. Club award. The kick is
not at the number of glee club
awards but rather that they
Should be placed in the same
classification as athietie “D” *s,
which require a lot more in sweat
and effort.

May I also extend the thanks
of the DAAC and varsity hockey
team to misses Frannie Doane
and Anne Tompkins who head
the girls sewing committee, that
PepOASp sBu YoIyM UOMSZ1uUvs.10
repair of the varsity hockey uniforms. Thanks again girls,

 

THE BIG WEEKEND
Med Ball
Fri. Mar. 5 9 to 1

NOVA SCOTIAN

DON WARNER

 

DANCE PROGRAMS

Our new line of dance pro
grams is smart and different.
Committees will find new

ideas — but not expensive.
HENRY BIRKS & SONS

LIMITED

American Gem Society
Registered Jeweller,
Halifax, N. S.

 

a

 

A Complete

PHOTOGRAPHIC
SERVICE...
@ SUPPLIES
@ EQUIPMMENT
@ REPAIRS
@ ASSISTANCE

 

the

CAMERA SHOP
of the Maritimes Ltd,

26 BLOWERS ST. — 3-8524

 

 

sey}? a
 

Dal Invades Achdia

(Centinued from page 5)

cne of the most improved men
on the team, being at time of
writing the leading scorer for
the Tigers with 6 points. Centres
the first line.

Willy Robertson; Willy’s hockey career has been spectacular,
and it is only beginning. Last
year he starred for Prince of
Wales, and this year he is one
of the most promising young
players in the Big Four. Only
21, he has, according to reports.
been in the eye of Toronto and
Detroit scouts.

Bob Knickle; Bob, hailing
from Lunenburg, is a veteran of
the Dal hockey wars. He has
heid down the right wing positicn on the Tigers for the past
two years, ,

Ken is one of
the more promising players on
the team. He has a hard shot
and a lot of hockey SAaVVy. .
Murray Malloy; Murray is
most dangerous when he vets in

Ken Reardon:

 

Dal Students —

A. welcome awaits you at

eStunneys Lyniled
456 Barrington Street,

Where you will find A
complete Music Service

and the finest

Sports Equipment.

 

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

NURSERIES Limited...
381 sarrineton st HALIFAX

 

 

 

 

Starting Sat. Feb. 21st.

|CAPTAIN BOYCOTT

with

Stewart Ranger and

Catherine Ryan

 

 

Oxford Theatre

Mon. Tue.
MIRACLE ON 34th ST.
CHILDE OF DIVORCE

Wed. Thur.

I'LL BE YOURS

HER SISTERS SECRET
Fri. Sat.

HUE AND CRYA
RAMROD

   

 

Friday, February 20, 1948

close. Cool and collected on the
ice, he is a nice playmaker.

Bill Brown; Bill is one of the
more colorful players among the

Dal forwards. A hard skater,
Bill puts everything he’s got into
the game.

Bob Adamson: Bob’s biggest
day in a scoring way was against Bridgewater last week. He
picked up three goals and a like
number of assists. Not flashy,
but effective, Bob doesn’t let
the punishment he takes bother
him.

Ted LeBlanc: Ted is one of
the deadliest men around the
gcalmouth on the team. Has the
knack of fooling the goaltender
on what appear to be ordinary
shots. Suffered a fracture of the
nose at Charlottetown.

 

Dal Batters

a
Bridgewater
(Coutinued from Page 4)
12. Dal - Reardon -(Brown)
13. Dal - Morrisson
14. Dal - Adamson (Reardon,
O’ Neill)
15.: Dal - MaeMillan (Morrisson,
Adamson)
16. Dal - Adamson

17. Dal - MacMillan

Shots - by Dal 14, by Bridge.

ad

water 7

 

VELVET

PENCILS ARE

 

    
 
 
 

‘This means that
the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.
You can’t buy better
school pencils !

WENUS PENCIL CO. LTD., TORONTG

# i
=.

 

—

   

 
