   
 
     
  
 

 
 

 

 

i*

Pj

— See Sears

~

 

 

e .

BALITE

Friday, October 10, 1947

GERS ARE PRIMED FOR SECOND WIN >

 

FRESHIE-SOPH — Rhea Schwartz and Janet Cameron (shown above) giving George Mattison anc
Doug Jaggs an egg shampoo at the height of last Friday’s penalty parade at the Freshie-Soph dance

held in the gym. Minutes later the positions wer2 reversed,

the boys giving the girls a shampoo.

Also shown are, left to right, Bob MacDougall, Dave Gillies and crown prosecutor, Jack Boudreau.

 

Enrollment Data Given

{

 

‘According to figures released
recently by the office of the Registrar registration figures top last
year’s figure by more than 2900
students, establishing a new record for attendance at Dalhousie
university.

As of October 1, a total of

registration was as follows: Medicine 255; Dentistry 36; Law 205;
Arts and Science, broken down
into Arts, Music, Cpecial Students
and Science 417.

Pre-medicine and pre-dentistry
claimed 525 students; pre-engin
1,869 students had applied for
registration. Of this total, 1,847
have been approved.

Shown by faculties the student

c¢ering, including the Bachelor of
Science engineering course 237;
and Commerce 194,
grand total of 1,869.

making a

 

Lee Heads Tigers Against
‘Wanderers Saturday Aft

 

A life guard, tennis player, hockey enthusiast and stellar football player, Dalhousie’s Poul Lee will see plenty of action Saturday
afternoon when the Tigers are turned loose on the Wanderers grounds
against the hapless Red and Black squad.

 

As quarterback, Lee will depend heavily on the renovated
Bengal line, which now averages
200 pounds. Bert Cull, Don McKeigan, Pete Mingo, Bob McQuinn, John Lindsay, Vince Morrison and Cyril Morgan will be
throwing their weight around
Saturday afternoon, as will ends
Murray Malloy, Pete MacDonald,
Bill Pearson and Ray Himmelman,

Don Woodward will be’in there
heaving the ovoid, and the backfield bombers, Wilson, Reardon
and Bob MacDonald, with Blair
Dunlop will carry the mail.

 

 

The dead-line for appications for Editor of the
Dalhousie Year-Book, is
midnight, Tuesday, 14,
Octber. Applications to be
presented to Mr. Murray
Rankin or Ross Hamilton,
President of the Council of
Students.

Dean Dunked
When Frosh
Raid Dorm

Toronto, Oct. 2 -(CUP) —
University of Toronto freshmen staged an heur long raid
on the women’s residences at
University College during
which police joined Varsity officials in quellig the outbreak
of violence.

 

The freshmen, who were éstimated to be about 200 strong,
attempted to decorate the facade of* the residence with
paint. Some of the group did
penetrate to the interior of
the building, breaking ehairs
and dragging the residents’
baggage through the halls.

The girls, armed with water
buckets, attempted to repulse
the attackers, but it was only
after the police were summoned that the situation was
brought under control. The
Dean herself was soaked by a
pail of water during the scram
ble.

—————EE

ee rt

i. de
_—
«

  

  
 
 

SWAMP
NAVY

— — — See Sports

  

 

 

Burkart Puts Emphasis
On Smooth Passing Game

Coach Bill Burkhart’s football team — the voracious Dalhousie
Tigers — will be out for a tasty morsel this Saturday afternoon when
they tangle with the football squad from Redlands PATI the Wanderers,

Aiming at an exhibition of how football should be played, at
the expense of Coach Jerry Drew’s hopes, Bill has been concentrating
on aerial power— with the emphasis on kicking and passing. Dalhousie fans who were pleased with the Bengals’ razzle-dazzle style:
of play in the league opener when they edged St. Mary’s 9 to 7, have
a treat in store this Saturday. The Gold and Black, operating out of
a modified box formation, have a maze of fancy dan plays which:
should subjugate the ponderous Wanderers machine in short order.

Don Woodward, passing artist from Newton, Mass., will be back
in action Saturday afternoon, flicking passes, long and short, to ends
Murray Malloy and Pete MacDonald. Paul Lee, at quarterback, is.
looked to for a repeat performance of his masterminding in the St.
Mary’s opus.

Bobbie Wilson, Galloping Bob MacDonald, Kenny Reardon and
Peer Feron are expected to see a great deal of ball-carrying duty in
the Wanderers-Dalhousie epic. Coach Burkhart has been hard at
work polishing up the kicking of Reardon, Wilson and Feron. Sur-~prise aidiicns to the backfield are Don Rogers, a fine passer and
quarterback, and Bob Beer, fullback with last year’s edition of the
English rugby Tigers who will be holding down the same spot witix
the footba'l Tigers.

A new lineman who should prove a tower of strength is Bert
Cull, former Toronto Oakwood Indian’s player, who has been carrying out the line coaching assignment. He will be in action Saturday,.
accompanied by such stalwarts as Don McKiegan of English rugby
fame, Vince Morrison, Cyril Morgan, Peter Mingo, and several others:
yet to be picked for the starting line-up.

A win over Wanderers will give the Bengals two victories against
no losses, and the way the league has been running, should practieally guarantee the Gold and Black a play-off spot. In passing, it
would be well to add that there is nothing like strong support from
a good crowd to add life to a game — everybody out for the big
game.

 

Leap For Lady’s Favor

As part of Freshman Week hold an aerial duel for the
at the University of Manitoba, lady’s lily mitt, whoever she
sponsoring a may be...in a death-defyingdrop from the clouds.

the college is
contest; the
chosen from among eight gor
beauty winner

Winner will be the heroic

geous contestants to be named
Freshie Queen, and crowned
by President Truman.
“Daredevil Jchn’” Mackay
and ‘Suicide Moe’ White will

idiot who refrains from pulling
the ripcord longest. First man
down gets the girl, mayhap for
company on a ride in a greater Winnipeg ambulance.

 

LAW VETERAN

MEARS

HEADS DAL PUBLICITY

Filling a position which has
long been lacking at Dalhousie,
Arthur M. Mears, of St. Andrew’s
N. B., has been appointed director
of publicity for the university.

The position, newly-created, is
part of the expansion program
of th ecollege and falls into three
main categories, Creating a greater college spirit; advertising college events to college students;
and advertising and publicising
college events to the general pubhie,

Mears attended the University
of New Brunswick prior to entering the Navy for a three-year
span and is a third year law stu
_ dent at Dalhousie.

In his new job at Dalhousie,
Mr. Mears will have a staff com
cy

)
posed of one member from each
organization and a general work:
committee.


 

ART MEARS

 

te.

 
ht .
X :

ad

ia

if ao vs. COMMUNISM

. Editor-in-Chief,
; LEW MILLER (3-4401)
Business Manager
AL. RUBIN
Features
_ ART MOREIRA
JOHN TRIM
KARL WEBBER
— KNIGHT.

t Business Mer.
OBIN MacLEAN

— Sports
RENY FISHER
Re-write Staff
ANNE PECKHAM
NOELLE BARTER
MARJ GOLDBERG

BOB TUCK ~

KEN PHELPS

_AL LOMAS "y
Circulation Manager
JAN THOMAS

D. SANDOVSKY
Proof Readers _
SOMERS PRIKLER

DON WALLER
JOHN PARKER

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10 NO.

International Comintern, which was declared at an
ring the war-year of 1943, has been resurrected,

oral = brought into the open again. Nine Communist

ue

have joined in an open pact which seeks to
t the so-called spread of Americanism. In other

it words, Russia and her followers are now openly op
Br. nN = we,

n: the only power that can offer any resistance to
Lis announcement does not surprise anyone wh
has” féllowed the tragic course of events since the recent
war's termination — or has it terminated?
Russia has used its power of veto about a dozen

: ct hen a half times since the birth of the United Nations

a
oe

ns
peli?
muti,

mis
i
ee
at
ree
ae |
mg

_ Organization, each time to oppose a plan favored by the
majority of the nation members. Through this misuse of

_ the veto the avowed aims of the United Nations have

bes er thwarted, and the very existence of such an organ=f “ization is as farcical as the ill-fated League of Nations
__ But what is to be done?— What can we individuals

; i of a democratic country do to combat or avert the seem
- ingly inevitable approaching strife between American_ ism and Communism? Certainly the answer is not to bury
our heads in the sands of complacency. Nor should we
nok into the other extreme of immediate war if we can

F i _ avoid it by rational thought and action. Logically there

‘is a solution, but where between the extremes does it
die?

~~ It does not seem sensible to abandon the United
Nations in spite of its apparent failure, for ultimately a

i league of its kind must govern the brotherhood of thé
world. It may not be now, nor may it be a hundred years

ce, but when the time comes the errors and problems

Ry ; f of today should be of inestimable value for its guidance.

in itself makes the present league worthwhile.
Meanwhile, perhaps the only answer to the growth
of Communism might be a League for Democracy, as

:. | 5 a in aim and purpose as the new International of

i a
oe
»
7

es
rm

‘ ae

ft
Jit
t

e |
he
b m
ct
ae re
4

ee ae pw
im
» oe
Pe

a Pha /
+2

Hf

ve

ie ;
Bt a

- ~ EDITOR'S

aa

?
ete

at)
>
(he et
Pa ae
tS
ae
aaa J 
“4
Pei.
-~

*

Jo
+ *

- Russia and her satellites. —-Or should we be idealistic
‘supporters of the United Nations and sit back and watch
for Russia's next move?

Bis a; (Editorial Note: The GAZETTE invites comment
on the above problem. Please restrict all letters to three

| dred words.

likely to take a dim view of ths

plan. If it goes through, then the

YD. A. A. C. should qualify for

the best ae OFF” this seas
_ MAILBOX “a
Dest Sir:

Regarding a report. which appeared on the sport Page of last .
_week’s, Gazette, I have interpret-ed the report to mean that if the

Bob Grant

Dear Sir;

While the effect of this missle
en the English-Canadian rugby
ccntroversy will be negligible, I

_ Intermediate Rugby team is cuc_ cessful in winning the Championsip, then it will be bolstered by
Pk vers from the Canadian team
and challenge for She McCurdy

up.
The players: i fight their

m3 way oY a eens ee be

thought that possibly the ideas of
ore who has played a bit at both.
james would be of interest to the
devotees of the gridiron.

I am pro-Canadian football for
three reasons. First, because it
is a superior team game. In the
serum of English rugger the

“Well, I'm all set for the Prom... Perfection ..

. Check!"

“Yeah, Joe’s shirt .. . Bill’s tails .. . and my Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

crowd cannot see whether
are pulling your weight or not.
In Canadian rugby anyone who
hasn’t his heart in the game is
easily spotted. Because of the
complexity of the Canadian game
intricate team work is essential.
True the linemen don’t get a
chance.to handle the ball as they
sometimes do in English hut any
erllege sport is primarily a team
gyame, not an individual effort.
Since Canadian football involves
more team work than English
herce it is a more interesting
game for the player, and the
school.

Canadian football is a better
game for the crowd too. There is
something about watching an end
1un develop or a pass caught thet
can’t be emulated in any other
gridiron sport. The deceptiveness
of the play*and speed and vio
you

. Icnce of impact have fascinated

huge crowds of rugby fans for
years in Canada and the States.

Finally as far as Dalhousie is
concerned we should make Canadian football our major fall
sport because by doing so we will
be in the same class as the rest
of Canadian colleges, and after
a time enter into competition with
them and add prestige to the university name, as a modern educational institution.

Yours truly
Joe Levison

Please Contact Immediately
MEMBERS OF ZETA PSI FRATERNITY
. W. S. K. JONES Phone 3-7281

or i
G. R. K. LYNCH Phone 3-9341 or r3-536

Leave name, address & phone number

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Scienee
enjoys international distinction

Degrees of:
Bachelor
Bachelor

Diplomas in:
Engineering
Education
Music
Pharmacy

of Arts
of Science
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Music
Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science Mining Geology —

Pre-Professional Courses

ERNE UN SR PES or Vy
Henour and Advanced Courses in many departments
im the B. Se. course about $210.00 a year

in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held is
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History,
The Prefessional Faculties

SS
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees

Residences

Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s

Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two aff*#ated institutions or in selected and nuprowed homes.
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service

students,

Meals for all students are available at the

For full information write te CHE REGISTRAR.

 
ot “45 *
oo" Sate Sn ate

ig _ WEEKLY DANCE IN
Be DAL COMMON ROOM

 

tf eae “The first Common fecais Dance
Veg of the new term will be held in
a the Dalhousie Men’s Residence
Saturday night, under the spoosorship of the Dal Glee and Dra
b ea) matic Society.

These -dances will be held
throughout the 1947-48 sessicn
every Saturday evening, with the
exception of those following a
y Friday night student council
dance in the gym. Common Room
dances afford Dalhousians a Saturday night rendezvous, and have
proved in the past to be an excellent source of an evening’s enbe. tertainment.

John Pauley, who will be d1recting the weekly dances, states
thet a new campus combo, led by
popular Denny Burchell of King’s

Fes will provide the music for thse

functions and that a canteen will

b maintained in the hall. Denn;

Burchell and his six piece band
» have been playing the Halifax
a area during the summer.

 

 

   

 

 

suid

 

 

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1947

’ ?;
“

«

 

tae

McLEOD AND MINGO

—== | 6a————

2 vee - Tomato Juice A Must

 

A poll of Dalhousie students
- eonducted on the campus Monday
} revealed that the average stud2 ent likes tomato juice with his
breakfast, according to Patsy

Pigot, Gazette researcher.

Of 27 freshmen and sophomores who were queried, 26 were
partial to canned tomato juice

: 7. with their toast and eggs.
Only dissenter was George Bardolacci; a freshman from Torunto who said that he only had
time for a glass of water — he
likes to sleep late.
 - Gerald “Fuzz’’ Foster, long¢ time Dalhousie luminary said, ‘I
like it as often as possible, especially on certain mornings.”
Bob MacDougall, a sophomore
replied, “Yes, I always like to
have tomato juice, or some tyne

P44

“Sure, but I like grapefruit
juice better,” was the reply of
freshman Matthew Swan, while

~ Frank MacDonald, another Dal
_ kousie fledgling said, ‘Yes, I like

tomato juice, but I eat in the

residence and we don’t always

have tomato juice there, some.__. times we have orange juice.”

 

Winnipeg, Oct. 2 —(CUP)—

The University of Manitoba

spent $200,000 this summer in

bm ’ improving the facilities on the
campus. .

Increased enrollment-in the

medical faculty necessitated al
| terations to the extent of $60,
000. Another large account was

the $35, 000 spent on hydraulic

| and electrical laboratories in the
~~? Engineering Building.

ee as campus itself was also im
_ proved as $10,000 was spent on

- new sidewalks and a short road

. was also built. The campus cafe
1 and Tunch room were al. 
  
  
 
   

of fruit juice with my breakfast.”

_.With Student Breakfasts

 

RHODES SCHOLAR
A DALHOUSIE MAN

A graduate of the Dalhousie
Law School, Alan E. Blakeney,
Rhodes Scholar for Nova Scoti:,
sailed for England Sept. 27, cn
the Empress of Canada, out of
Montreal.

A native of Bridgewater, Nova
Scotia, Al Blakeney was a popular and brilliant student at Dalhousie. He will continue his study
of law at Queen’s College, Oxford.

Mr. Blakeney was one of nin2
Canadian Rhodes scholars —one
from each province — who were
picked to continue their studies
under the scheme of the Rhodes
Trust, and who sailed September

27. A tenth studnt will sail at a

jater dat.

Th Acadmic year at Oxford
begins Oct. 12, with the opening
of the MMichaelmas Term.

 

FRESHIE-SOPH
HELD AT KINGS

The King’s University FreshieSoph dance was held last evening
at the College’s administration
building and proved a great success.

The dancing area on the second story of the building was
decorated, under the capable direction of Gloria Teed and Frances Twohig, with autumn scenery
and color.

Chaperones for the evening
were Mrs. A. Kent Giffen, Mrs.
A. S. Walker and Mrs. John Hackenly, Dean of Women at Alexandra Hall.

The entertainment committee,
under Chairman Gordie Coles,
were as follows: Denny Burchell
and Ron Ripley, representing last
year’s freshie-soph class, and Don
Trivitt and Dave Wilson, repre
senting this year’s freshman class.

LIGHT MEALS AT
RESIDENCE EVOKE
HEAVY PROTESTS

The atmosphere was homey —
prim girls sat six at a varnished
table, and maids hustled back and
forth with dainty. meals. All was
well in the high ceilinged, airy,
dining room at Shirreff Hall,
Dalhousie University’s girls residence.

Miss Mary Mowat, warden of
the hall, sat at her head table —
itis habitually distinguished from
th others by the presence of a
bowl of flowers, and a new
French teacher. Polite conversation rose from the tables, and tinkling laughter from unabashed

 

- freshettes. Miss Mowat, newlyappointed warden smiled, as she
saw everything sailing along

smoothly.

But all was not smooth, according to “Tippy” Jdudrey, a postgraduate student in Science
rumors of dissension had reached
her alert ears. The girls were be
ginning to protest about the
meals.

Regular procedure called. for
dinner at six. The noon meal was
called lunch, and in the opinion
of some girls, that is just what
it was a lunch. With long,
tedious laboratory periods in the
afternoon the girls felt that they
should have their big meal —
dinner — at noon.

“Tippy” decided that a petition was in order. Over the weekend she had the signatures of
6% girls on her petition, request
ing that dinner be served at
noon, and lunch at the evening
meal. Monday, she presented the
petition to Helen Beveridge, president of the house committee at
Shirreff Hall, and a student veteran in her senior year.

Wednesday, it appeared that
the petition had gone through the

proper channels — Miss Mowat

announced that a meeting would
be held in the hall to discuss the
petition — all girls interested

_ were urged to attend.

RECALL TRAINING

oe SR RES or SN RR ER Sn PRS NESTS ot NDP MER RAR SAPIENS cat

 

NO. 2.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MORRISON }
— Sweat
C.0.T.C. Compl Traini
“U.1.C. Completes lraimimg
Fresh with memories of a strange life — a life involving
weekend trips to Quebec city and receptions for the Governor
General of Canada — not to mention arduous periods of train-—

ing, a group of Dalhousie students who attended the Royak

Canadian School of Infantry at Valcartier, Quebec,

to studies last week,

They were members of the Dalhousie contingent, Canadian
Officers Training Corps, who had attended a sixteen week course:
in infantry training and procedure under the new C. O. T. C. scheme.
Others took training in various branches of the army such as the
Ordinance Corps, The Bngineers, Army Service Corps, and on down
the line.

As second lieutenants (pay $185 per month) they received officers
privileges to some extent, and escaped to a small degree, the fatigues
and guard duties of the private soldier.

Chosen after careful consideration of their scolastie and theletic records, they receive training in sixteen-week courses, each
summer, so thae completion of training will coincide with graduation
from college

Immediately upon arrival at Valcartier, the cadets received equipment, and were initiated into basic training, consisting mfinly of:
small arms training and drill.

Basic training was completed by July 1, and at the beginning:
of August they were deep in the intricacies of advanced training,.
aimed at qualifying them as section leaders, able to lead a squad of
men in any contingency.

The accommodation provided was a far cry from what the stu-dent-soldiers expected. They had comfortable quarters and excellent.
food. Dances were held in the officers mess, and they received passes.
each weekend. Several of the officer cadets, including Dalhousie’s.
Bob McQuinn and Scott Morrison attended a reception for the Gov-ernor General, held at the Citadel.

Near the completion of training, competitions were held, including:
rifle and pistol practice on the range, athltic contests, and field craft:
trials. Bill Grant of Dalhousie won the four mile race.

Now back at school and attending C. O. T. C. lectures under the:
direction of Major Cameron, officer commanding Dalhousie C. O..
T. C., the eager cadets look forward to next year’s training periodi
when they will return to Valcartier.

returned

First Glee Club Offering

 

“As You Like It’’ will be the initial production of the Dalhousie

Glee Club according to recent announcements from the Glee Club.
Office.
First readings for parts in the Shakespearian comedy were held
in the Gymnasium Sunday afternoon, at a meeting presided over
by Leslie Pigot — the man who was largely responsible for*the success of last year’s “Twelfth Night” production.

Purpose of the meeting was to give new-comers a chance to
familiarize themselves with the parts, and at the same time to give
the director a chance to evaluate the talent on hand. A large number
of the frosh class turned up at the first rehearsal, as well as a number of last year’s performers,

 

 

eld ; > » +. rat het me, b ; «il
Pee T AY shite at a a cag 1 Loeialii Woe eo

 
 

‘
’

PAGE FOUR »

ery ;
a Tr cr
= ts ;
cee tlt ;
a

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  

*

 

 
    
    
 

SPOR T..
REPORT

BY BOB TUCK

In serounging about for something to pad the space that this
coiumn is supposed to occupy, we found a choice bit in one of our
exchanges, a paper published in Wolfville and representing the student opinion of a scholastic institution in that town. Without further
ado we quote a paragraph of said student opinion:

“Canadian football is now the vogue in Halifax with Dalhousie
making an all-out effort to turn out a winning sport combination of
soine kind, The students have contributed extra money to the team’s
operation and the experiment will be watched with interest by other
Maritime Universities, now that Dal has thrown over Intercollegiate
vaghy. The game may be a duccess in a big city like Halifax where
there are close to 65,000 people but certainly not in Wolfville, Sack
ville, Antigonish, and Fredericton where the combined populations

are not even equal to the population of Halifax. We think that the
Dal Athletic Association, led by prexy Windy O’Neill, has bitten off
more than it ain chew, and will regret the move in the long run.
Our experience with Halifax sport fans, who are the most gullible
in the Maritimes, has led us to believe that the Haligonians will go
for anything, good or bad, because the Capital City press makes it
better than it sounds.”

Well, we’re not going to comment on the main drift of the gentleman’s opinion, but we would like to take exception to one or two
rash statements that the columnist has inserted in his provoking
piece. First we deal with the opening crack concerning “a winning
sport combination of some kind.” It was’ only last Saturday that a

Dal tennis “combination” decisively debunked this statement by

“winning” a tournament from the Apple-knockers 13 matches out of
16. In the statement concerning the masticating abilities of “Windy”
O'Neill, we will let time be the judge as to whether the DAAC prexy
has bitten off more than he can chew; our good friend would be
well advised against indiscriminate biting himself. We are also sure
that the contention that Halifax sports fans are the most gulible in
the Maritimes won’t rest easily with the City dwellers of Dalhousie,
and on closer inspection this statement yields something else which
is quite significant. Anyone who has had dealings with this rural
P. U. in the realms of sport, will agree when we say that this place
has always prided itself on putting fast ones over on its opponents.
We suppose our friend shares this pride and at the same time thanks
goodness that he is an Acadian and not a “gullible’’ Haligonian.

The second English "Rugby game is scheduled for Tuesday against King’s at 1.30 p. m. Contrary to many reports Dal will have a
really strong English Rugby team that will have a strong chance of
winning its league. What is more important however, is the fact
that this team was more or less voluntarily made up. Those who
wanted to play the old game had to work for the establishment of
a good team, and now, on paper at least, they have it. When they
trot out on the field against King’s on Tuesday they deserve to have
the student body with them. The game itself should be rugged and
hard fought, between evenly matched teams possessing plenty of
fight.

Aiter their deieat by Dalhousie, St. Mary’s came back and defeated Wwanucréers by tne siim margin oi 1—U. Alter pl, Maly s scoicd
tne lone point of the game, they 1ay back and hung on to provect
tier leau. iuey played detensive football, Now detensive footoall is
not particuiary exciting to watcn, particulariy to tans woo are uscd
to the ever cuanging compiexion of the English game. One of the
pluncipal aims of wis new Canadian iootbali league must of necessily be to win over these fans. This will never be done by dull, uniuteresting footoall. It was thougnt that this was taxen tor granted
by the muerested parties before the season opened. It’s a fine thing
to win games, but Canadian Football has a missionary duty to itself
in tis city. Dyed-in-the-wool English rugby fans are going to find
the new game hard enough to swallow as it is.

One more word about the English rugby setup to those who are
dissatisfied with the DAAC’s hanaling of the situation. Despite opinron to the contrary, it woud have been folly to field the team in a
senior circuit when it was doubtful whether it was of senior calibre.
However we have an intermediate team in an Intermediate League
that will offer pretty stiff competition; Acadia’s entry has half their
varsity team. And if the team wins it’s League, it has been promised
a crack at the McCurdy Cup, emblematic of Maritime rugger sup‘remacy, and help from members of the Canadian football team. To
our way of thinking, this is a pretty fair proposition.

 

2

 

rye

 

ae We ig
(ti tram T'S, iis

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

TEWASH NAVY 8-0 |

Lob Spiga I i eel Enel cal ee — - - = > = =~ _ —e
mo ee PP er ee [eae ren PO Se eer he eo ok fe ae yt Pa: -! oes
Pike. Seth JF) Oe eee ee baat ee ‘ - LAIN) te eo Ps My on ee nea Ie ; j
7 55 Pe = BA) ob lege 1 “ae ie ey NE Ite . Fis og sft ry la oe tt af Lr ,
NT Pea a Leer a ete et a eee ri * :

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10

DAL SCORES IMPRESSIVE WIN;
SUPERIOR IN ALL DEPARTMENTS

Showing plenty of pluck and
finesse, the Dalhousie English

Rugby Tigers routed the Navy

entry in the Halifax Intermedjate Rugby League by a score
of 8—0O Wednesday afternoon on
Studley Field. The margin of superiority that the Tigers enjoyed
wa sgreater than the score would
indicat, as the Dal team generally forced the play and showed
distinct superiority in all departments. Their tackling was generally good, and although the
backfield erred at times, their
cften brilliant passing and running were good for many long
gains. The serum played well and
got the ball out with greater
regularity than their opponents.
A feature of the game was the
predominance of footwork, and
both sides made long gains
through dribbling down the field.

The game opened with Dalhousie forcing the play and setting the pace of the contest. Th?
first Dal touchdown was score:l
by Gordie Hart after a brilliant
line run, but the convert was
missed by MacMillan. With the
score 3—0 for Dal, Grant punted
from his own end of the fiela.
McKeigan recovered the ball ana
sped 50 yards to score. In veering to his left to touch the ball
beneath the goalposts McKeigan
van into the post and was injured
on the play. After McKeigan had
gone off for repairs, Gordie
Hart made the convert and boosted the score to 8—0O for Dalhousie.

wai started tne second half

Just Wuere wucy nad leit Of, With

wie line Yuniihng aud tackling
pmecthiy. ine inavy squad appearea to pe In poorer Shape

tinll tue home team and thus Dal

Wus avuie to tare aavancage of

Gpportunitis mere easily than

tucar Opponents. Twice lm

Dal

Uais

hali forced Navy to toucn
iur satety, and although encanpeacin eCiemy

territory ior the

greater part of the time they
were unabie to overcome the sail
ors defence and score.

Ouisianding for the Tigers
were Gordie Hart and Russ Macline
and flying-half respectively, and
MeKeigan and Mackelvie among
the

Iwan on the three-quarter

forwards. MacCochran also
played a
stood out prominently
but Wildswith
Dal used a seven
man scrum, doing without a fullLack. Hewever Gordie Hart covered up nicly when the occasion
c«manded it,

LINEUPS:

DAL; MeKelvie, MacMillan, McColough, Macintosh, MacKeigan,
MacAuley, Robertson, MacEwan,
Hart (caywtain), Quigley, Cochran, Grant.

NAVY; Buchanan, Robertsoa,
Slater, Kidd, Wildswith, Monton,
Connolly, Atkinson, Ley,
Lloyd, Mansfield, James,

No one
for the
played a

good game.

Navy,
sound game,

Page,
Silver.

 

Both Tigers On Prowl Saturday

ENGLISH INTERMEDIATES vs KINGS”
AT STUDLEY — 1.30 P. M.
CANADIAN SENIORS VS WANDERERS
AT WANDERERS GRDS. 2.30 P. M.

 

Shown above is Dal Tiger Quigley running the ball against Navy
Wednesday afternoon at Studley. About to tackle him is a Navy
forward. In the background, following up the pla yis speedy Foo

Grant of the Tigers. This bit of action took place in the closing minutes of the game. Dalhousie sank the Navy by a score of 8—0O.

 

 
   
 
  
 
  
 
   

ARE YOU A

["s amazing how many times you hear “J wish I could

smoke a pipe”... especially when the solution is so
very simple. Having decided to smoke a pipe it’s best to
start off with a Burley tobacco. It will keep your tongue
cool, and once you light up it stays lit.

Picobac is the pick of the Burley crop,
grown in sunny southern Ontario,

       

Dal Off Hours

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

Maritime Business College

| 73 College Street

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the
| seven courses are admitted as General Students.

. The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursdty
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING

wil be valuable aid in future years

 

  

Enter amy day.

_ Tuition courts from date of Registration

 

 

 
    
 
   

  

_ FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10

a

   
   

 

    

. a
od + ae =
4 va i ce 5 eee ae ins Sicha

; ¥ fi Pe EY 4
ERS Mier ance 
» q ‘ et ne ie He T > Lis et : 4
af'y te tee al ai aes ‘acer’ =) - a

a oo hae

.

DAL ONCE AGAIN N. S.
 

 

 

 
 
 

   

Just as it did a year ago, The
_ Dalhousie Tennis team has swept
Bex th ough all opposition this season
tw again win the Nova Scotia iu—  *ere-ollegiate tennis championship.
The Tigers clinched their second
straight Provincial title last Sat_ «urday afternoon when they crushed the Acadia University squad in
ii the finals at Wolfville. In winning
thirteen out of sixteen matches,
the Dal players completely doma -- jnated the courts, and the outcome
5 of the meet was never in dou! +t
Be aa after the first five matches, as
it was clearly evident which was
the superior team. }

 
  
   
   
  
   
   
    
 

Wf The ten Dal requeteers were
<r, off to a fast start when they cap
tured four out of five matches in
both the men’s and women’s singles. With Bill Pope and Paul Lee
turning in articularly fine efforts,
Dal took charge from the very
first and built up an early lead
that was too much for the Valley
school to overcome. Dal’’s advantag continued to mount in the
doubles, which saw the Gold and

neg Black win four straight, two in the

BY men’s division and two in the wo’ y men’s. The day’s play was rounded

j out when Acadia showed its first

Fits real strength of the day in holding the Tigers to an even break
in the mixed doubles matches.
JE Yvonne LeBrocq and Barbara
_ Quigley were the stellar perfornxs ers for the women, and each
‘the victors.
wok victors.

Now that Dal has won the colleciate title in this Province, she
awaits the Maritime inter-collegjate championships, which will be
el held as soon as Mount Allis n
| flashed some brilliant tennis for
yi; ana the University of New Brunswick have played-off for the right
to face the Tigers in the finals.

  
   
     
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
    
    
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 

All members of the Arts and

me Science Society who wish to ap
_ pear in Inter-faculty debating are
requested te attend a meeting
to be held in Room 3 of the Arts
Building, Tuesday, October 14th.,
at 2 P. M.—Prepare a short topic
for an address.

COCA-COLA, LTD. — HALIFAX

D. G. A. C. HOLDS
FIRST MEET

 

The first meeting o fthe D.G. A. C. was held Tuesday evening in the gym with Frances
Loane presiding. Mrs D. MacKeigan, our physical director was
introduced to the newcomers and
heartily welcomed. back by last
year’s members. Short reports
were given by the managers u
acquaint the groups with the activities which the D. G. A. C.
wil undertake.

With the absence of J. Rogers,
a vacancy for the position of
Basketball manager occured.
Lennie Fisher was elected. Thc
«lub also decided last spring to
leave the position of Ping-Pong
manager open, to be filled only
this fall. Holly Fleming was
chosen. —

Th executive as it now stands:
President — Frances Doane

Secretary — Lyn Hebb

“‘Bodmisean Mgr.—P. MacKinnon

G. Hockey Mgr. — Pat Snuggs
Swim Mgr. — Marg O’Neil
érehery Mon — N. MacDermaid
Tennis Mgr. Betty Petrie
Basketball Mgr — Rennie Fishec

Ping-Pong Mgr. Holly Fleming
The class managers were also

elected and the slate reads as

follows:

Freshette Mgr. — J. Cameron

Sophomore Mgr. — A. Tompkins
» mior Mgr. S. McCoy
Senior Mgr. — E. Cruksha nks

 

FFROSH SHOW WILL
REQUIRE SUPPORT

If you can sing, dance, act,
him, imitate, or do anything to
amuse others, the Frosh Show, to
be staged Friday, the 24th, needs
yeu. — All Frosh are urged »>
attend a meeting to be held 4
the gym, Sunday, October 12, ut
200, Po M

 

Join

“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the registered trade marks which
distinguish the product of Led,

Me) hy

Fae fated = 20D
Ihde anos

  

bi R /
hs

have a Coke

ar 1k a. ir?
_ 7 . 3

 

SPA Se ee
Phi an aes! Bs '
iy cf ed mt
ary ety

-, Wy

ure

ae *,

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10

hart ‘Is
New Coach

Bill Burkhart was born in
Toronto and received his early
education at the University of
Toronto schools. During this period he began playing football.
H attended St. Michaels College
in Toronto and played football
and hockey on their teams.

In 1935 he began his professwith the
Toronto Argo’s and continued
with that club throughout 1935
and 1936. In 1937 he joined the
Hamilton Tigers.

In 1941 Bill joined the Royal
Canadian Navy and received an

ional football career

honorable discharge in December
1945 with the rank of lieutenantHe spent these four war years
patrolling the English Channel
on the H. M. C. S. “Assinaboine.”
Since his discharge he has been
with the Great West Life Insurance Co.

He was recently moved from
Toronto to the
likes this part of the country

Maritimes and

very much. He contemplates a
good season for Canadian football at Dalhousié this year.

 

BULLETIN

 

Dalhousie Tennis Team
Awarded Maritime InterCollegiate Title.

U. N. B. Concedes Supremacy of Gold and Black
Players—will not play-off
for title at Mt. A.

  

ea

     
 
  

a0 Voce 11-1 oe tac

Reece

 
 

‘ better,

       

ENNIS TEAM ROUTS ACADIA

  

PAGE FIVP:.

 

CAMPUS ROUNDUP

It was inevitable that Canadian Football should come to Dalhousie and to the Maritimes. The
quarrel is not as to which game is
as everyone knows that
if the English game is played
well, it is a very interesting game
to watch. However, the old game
has suffered a decline in the
past few years, not only here, but
as reports have it, in the old
country as well. This year, at the
M. I. A. U. meeting, attempts
were made to speed up the game
from over ’ome without much
success,

On the other hand, the Can
adian game has been well propagandized for years, not only in
the newsreels and in every magazine on the newstands, but also
in our daily papers and college
exchange journals. After the initial cost, the game is not too
expensive for a small college,
For Dalhousie, this year it costs
$40 per man — — — — next
year it will be much less. Canédian Football could be a profitable sport in the Maritime College Circuit.

All argument about the worth
ef the new game should stop up
 

Soccer Team
Formed at Dal

Soccer, recognized as a minor
sport at Dalhousie to date, is now
making a determined effort
Lecome a major sport on the campus. This drive is being fostered
by a group of interested students
who met last Saturday afternoon
to organize a team, arrange practice times, and elect a manager.

Dennis’ St. Helene was eiected

+

vo

ani
a schedule °t

non-playing team

araw up

manager
he will

-waritt : w¢ e . « + wAmrehns
CXHIOIIONn Qames, ana purchase

equipment. because the team is

Seing organized so late in th

@

season, it will be impossible to

jcin wmne eity soccer league this
year, but the squad is hopeful of
becoming a loop member next
fall by getting an earlier start.
A schedule of exhibition tilts
this year,

wiil be arranged for

hcwever.,

The team plans to practice
one hour each day and will start
the and
have been obtained. Hampered by
the fact that most of the players
hk: ve laboratory periods the group
has to curtail its scnmmages from

&@S soon as boots bails

to 2 p. m., with longer sessions
on Saturday. All those students
interested in soccer should see St.
Melene in the Men’s Residence.

——$—____

The best indoor and outdoor
equipment

is found at

THE SPORTS

|
|
sporting
|

| LODGE
) 86 GRANVILLE ST. |
| |

>*?

“Play More — Live Longer

é ij .
a Re ll pls

 

y ‘ 4 , ~t r
« Heese of SNE PS i” a a ee

on perusal of the fall newspapers. Come Sepember, all United States (their game is very
similar) and Canada (with the
exception of the Maritimes) take
their Indian blankets out of the
mothballs, polish up their flasks
and go wild over what has been
called ‘“‘the great autumn madness.” Certainly all Maritimes
are proud of their boys who went
up to central Canada to star in
the Canadian football. George
Fraser, Tiny Herman, Andy
Tommy were among those to win
fame and fortune and lately, the
former St. F. X. star, Tarp Walsh
is the toast of the City of Hamilton,

The move to Canadian Football put Dalhousie in the same
sports strata with all Canadian

Universities — we have long
been up there, and ahead, scholastically. Dal can now play the
other U’s at their own game,
Plans are currently afoot te
bring down the McGill Intermediates —- maybe next year it will
be their seniors. It is not an uncommon thing for a small college
to receive a gr@up of athletes
that make a great team and trim
the snuggies off the large institutions. Unforunaely, professionalism has crept into American
College football but its days in
the college ranks is numbered,
With the advent of the American professional leagues, the colleyes won’t have a chance in the
bidding for a lunkhead fullback.
The players that will go to college football will be those attrrcted. by . higher

E:cwever this situation has never

. education,

come and will never come to

Car ada.

Marfield. Progressive St. F.
X. have signified their intention

of having a team next year. U,

Dalhousie has led the

itimes

N. B. was supposed to be in this
year, but they pulled a Thorne
Smith after they discovered that
all the rum@us on their campus
last year was caused by “only
ten fellows’’—who were eating
their Wheaties. We think that
Archaic University and Mount A.
will be forced in for lack of
competition.

P+ oeed. diene = lesbsee

At least one good story came
out of the hazing. A new method
of clandestinely entering a theatre when you have nothing in
your pockets

but has

shadows,
discovered. A freshman
wearing his clothes backwards,
according to the rules, entered
the Capitol by an exit door and
hept on going because the doo-
inan thought he was coming out,

been

———
 

Dal Students —

A. welcome awaits you at

456 Barrington Street,

Where you will find A
complete Musie Service
and the finest

Sports Equipment.

 

Sey at ea inet ela lan a mange <meta ante Sega pesca <a tates tee as et
. 4 J s fy

Gee

% in oem Op
fe
, LU
i

~ CONCERT
Chorus

i! dor: you must,”’ composed on a political text written by Philrenau during the American Revolution, was particularly in
ng ee aOR eine and for the subject matter it containd.

x to the acoustics of the Gym. Both
f folk songs from ‘Latin the “Song Of The French “Parta, including two Calypsos. isan” and the “Ballad of Roger
7 Young’ were among the most
outstanding works on the pro
gramme.

The fourth group was composed of Negro Spirituals and
Work Songs, all of which were
admirably performed. The outstanding selection in this group
was “Water Boy.” Never have I
heard a finer performance of this
old favorite. Both the soloist and
chorus were excellent. Another
fine performance was ‘Deep
River,” and a part of this spirit“ual had to be repeated before the
programme could proceed.

The final group consisted of.a
variety of religious works beginning with Palestrina’s “O Bone
Jesu,’ which somehow lacked the
full expression necessary in such

(Continued on page 8)

if eal dimmed by the enor.
This however, may have been ue

- Many students will remember that during the war there was an

Bike campaign, held at the time of Student Elections, to persuade
oe to sign over our caution deposits to the International Student
Service. In these campaigns we had it pointed out to us that the

ate ene would be spent in providing text books and study materials
" to prisoners of war who had been students. This appeal attracted
rey: is __ considerable generosity at Dalhousieyto the limited extent of caution

Ne - deposits which we had completely forgotten anyway.

_~~-—- One of the present functions of the I. S. S. is the sending of
* a -_-books and study materials to what may be called the prisoners of
f peace. It is very difficult for Canadians to conceive an impression of
MaNt : i prisoners, confined by the borders of their own country.

mo} Seven million people, living in an area no larger than Nova
pe eee surrounded on all sides by other small, crowded countries,
5 € each with a fanatically strong national tradition, each speaking
Be oa own language, are trapped, confined. Students in such countries
Ay have no dollars with which to purehase cultural contact and political
good-will — and dollars are the only things that can buy these today.

The I. S. S. does its best to provide cultural contact, however,

| the form of standard libraries which are being sent to all German
_ eceupied countries of the war. These libraries contain many of the

. books suppressed under the Nazi regime, and books representing the

ay re ‘thought of other nations since 1939. Such libraries are sent to unPy mee Heatran all over Europe.

a Binet i, .
ree

pee .
¢ . 5 aa
Aces ee :

a _. New books are considered from time to time, and added to each
e b 9 a | brary: In this way, many universities whose complete libraries were
a Bs ‘ eS destroyed during the war, can begin the work of rebuilding.

It may seem somewhat far-fetched, but be assured that it is true.
es 1 One copy of the Dalhousie GAZETTE, sent to each university in
a Europe, would be the most widely read document of many months.

bt The most trivial details about initiation, football stunts, casual cam: ne gossip, ponderous political discussions, even the advertisements,

oe would be read and read again with an unbelievable interest and conen ration, ‘such as would make GAZETTE editors brush their hair
ack out of their eyes and think that perhaps it is worth the effort.
At least < one colorful character in the office would shout “Recognition,

i at last!”

oe How difficult it is to be convincing about such a subject, on
a "which the reader has never given any thought. This one venture of
td ; panting: a copy of the GAZETTE, or any Canadian college paper, to
_ Baro; ean universities, could give a return in appreciation entirely
of proportion ‘to the effort involved. Yet, to us,. = would seem
anes hing to be worthwhile,

7 ‘there i is much truth in the remark above that it could
; widely read new document in many months. It could
» the Hue new document.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10

THIS ATOMIC AGE

By Roberta Daye ,

Few of us are contented with
the conditions of the world today.
We are dissatisfied with the way
things are being conducted by
our governments, both at home
and abroad. We are upset by urheavals in labor, and continually
recurring crises in foreign affairs, and the general tension and
suspense in our everyday lives.
We console ourselves for all these
haidships with the constantly reaffirmed faith that things will
return to normal, balance will
be regained, within periods variously, estimated from one to
twenty-five years.

This word “normal” is a very
much over-used and misused one.
Can we ever return to “norm:]
times” again? The economic and
political factors which produced
the era of the late thirties wil]
never recur. The wartime devel
* Was

production alone forbid this.

Why do we think of this period
immediately preceding the war
as “normal”? Why do we hope
for a return to those conditions?
Perhaps it is because we have
been plunged abruptly into such
a changed world that we canni:
adapt ourselves to it. The majority of people are in an inte’lectual and emotional lag, from
which it seems easier to turn
back to the familiar than to
biave the unfamiliar.

The presumption that there is
a parallel between the after-effects of World War I and those
of World War II strikes me as
mudesirable. There is no parallel,
except possibly in the principles
for which they were fought. There
no similarity in scope or
methods of warfare.


We used to be continually ~.minded that this was the “Atomic

opments in science and industrial “g¢.”” Now that the first panic

SS ae
= SR See me

~

=

SS
“J
So b
‘4 *

=
a

= wae
>, Sa
a

em

Ss

a,

> ae = aN

over atomic energy has passed,
the tendency seems to be to ‘znore the whole thing. We cae
net successfully ignore its implications, however. It is too stron,ly tied in with the unrest and distrust between nations. There are
changes to be considered in many
cther directions also, changes
which affect all of us directly or
indirectly: the rise in the cost of
living, and the consequent unrest
of the working people; the apparent failure of democratic gov-~
ernment to meet this situation,
and the problem of whether a
revolution in government will be
necessary to meet it, or whether
the present systems can be modified sgufficient'y to satisfy the
demands of the new age.

Surely the present. generation
should know the sad results of
an “Ostrich” policy. It is each
person’s responsibility to consid~
e* these problems of our time, ‘o
form an opinion, and to voice it.

right now your grades
are good...
but life holds harder tests

Harder indeed! Life was never a lenient schoolmaster. And making the grade in life demands all
a man can muster in the way of knowledge,

‘ ability and forethought.

Especially forethought! The sort of forethought
that prompts a man to start charting a life insurance program early in youth. The sort of forethought that enables a man to realize that whatever, the experiences life holds for him | — earning
a living, getting married, raising a family, having
earning power cut off —he is better equipped to
meet them and enjoy them when he has behind
him the security and protection provided by life

insurance,

Talk to a Mutual Life of Canada representative and
get the benefit of his special training and our long
years of experience in adapting life insurance to
the varied desires and responsibilities of people of
all ages and all incomes.

Ask him what policy or combination of policies is
best suited to your particular circumstances. Let
him show you the special features of Mutual low
cost life insurance.

THE

MUTUAL [IEE

low cost life insurance since 1867

HEAD OFFICE, WATERLOO, ONTARIO

 
eek)

i fy

By JOHN TRIM

i ntic coastline of Labredor. Due to the necessity for more detail,

nmer.
This year’s expedition consisted
* of, ‘three parties, in charge of
_Frefessor Douglas, Capt. Milligan
_ and Mr. Smith. The first of these
{ sent to explore the area between
, * / Ramah Bay and Rowsell Harbo.r
q X ee led by Capt. Milligan, and
| | or consisted of H. Anderson, R.
: _ Cameron, L, Davidson, D. Harris
= znd H. Fielding. ©
_ The second party was in charge
of Mr. Smith, who-had with him
_ ¥. Whidden, D. Templeton, M.
Marshall, R. Slip, R. Hill, P. Harding, R. Roome, L. Lamont and
J. MacDonald. This group left
early in’ June for Tessujulik.
_ Professor Dotiglas arrived during the first week in July ‘and
S took some of the second party
. with him to the Canairtok river.
Hi | They ascended the river in can. rs «Ges, and mapped well over a hun
 

   
 

.

ree weeks they were there.
, They then returned to Mr.
a - Smith’s party, where some reVS mained. The rest went to join
eo. Capt. Milligan.

_ Mr. Smith’s party mapped the
area from Cape Harrison to Kai_ pokok Bay, and penetrated 1f:'a — ter. miles inland to examine the
Ske | Benedict Mountains. They found
_ a rock structure containing molyS bdenite during their thorough
AS . covering of this area, the geology
of which was unknown in detail.
_ In the meantime, the first party under Capt. Milligan had mapped the area between Rowsell
‘Harbour and Ramah Bay, finding
a very complex geological struct
   
   
 
  
 
   
   
   
 
 
     
   
 
     

“~

   
   
   
   
   
  
     
 
  
     
  

re. A map is now in preparation
‘3 Oe ebich will cover this area on a
~ seale of one inch to a thousand
_ feet and will show the very complex detail of this interesting
geological series. The area is of.
LS some interest, as it contains iron
. 4 Pyrites which had been mapped
a Riiycing the previous year and
ich will someday be a valuable
tance. West of this area there
"is also a deposit of iron, but of
a lewer grade material. Although
ae i 12 attention of the expeditien
was given to the possible mineral

tie the most et fea
  

A

 
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
     
  

dred square miles during the

posit of some economic impor- _

As a result of the interest which been aroused by the surveys made by Professor Douglas in
brad or, a member of the GAZETTE staff visited him recently. The following article is the result
interview. The first of these expeditions was made in the summer of 1946 at the request of
Geological Survey of Newfoundland. This party consisted of N. R. Goodman, Capt. G. C. Milligan
and C. H. Smith, which explored the straits from Blane Sablon to Cape Chidley thus covering the Atanothr expedition set out this

 

 

Chef Harlowe Fielding and Bob Roome taking it easy in KigLa-Pait Bay. In the background are the Kig-La-Pait Mountains.

Photo by Bob Cameron.

 

panies and independent prospectors. No great mineral discoveries
were made by the NewfoundlandDalhousie expeditions in 1946 and
1947 but no one is justified in

saying that the coast of Labrador
is barren. Now well known to
exist in the interior of Labrador
along the frontier with the Prov
ince of Quebec is one of the
great undeveloped iron wuecposits
of North America. It is being
drilled at present by Hollingors’
Exploration and American interests. Neither can one say whether
or not there is a valuable deposit

q@between the frontier and the west

se.board.

The logical step to find deposits is to have a geological map
of all Labrador. Geologically,
Labrador is an extension of the

_ Rowsell’s Harbour from the South with Mt. Dalhousie on the left.
Hin the distance is Spike Peak. These photos were taken by Beb Camron, one of the members of the expedition.

   

Frecanibian Shield, — frequently
called the Canadian Shield, which
forms the basis of the North American continent.

Last year Newfoundland cooks
accompanied the expeditions but
this year Professor Douglas offered the job to Dalhousie studentsgwhose resourcefulness was
unbounded. One particular cook,
Harlowe Fielding, was given great

acclaim for his ingenuity, for

one day when the camp was .deserted, he somehow got to an iceberg and brought back a pail of
ice. He mixed up a batch of eggs,
some tinned milk, and a can al
peaches, and when the party came
back for supper they had Peach
Melba for dessert.

Robert Young, genial basses

of the motor boats, saw a bear in

the camp early one morning aad

er

Pe a
;

   

ie bal oe a)
nt »

   

CAMPUS
STRAWS

I was sitting in the Library
the other morning, with a Calendar in front of me, striving manfully to manipulate my courses
into workable form, when the
swish of the door announced a
new arrival. My attempts to discipline myself into not looking
up having failed long ago, I did
look up to see my friend Bob
MacQuinn approaching. He plopped down alongside and made a
sympathetic face. Apparently he
had troubles, too. I quess this
situation is the universital malady

nowadays.

After a ten o’clock class I dzcided to walk over to the Gyn
Store, more to see who was there
than to buy anything. What 4
seething mass of humanity that
place is these days! After a monumental struggle, and amidst
much tramping of toes, and saying a dozen or more “hallos’” (I
guess about half the Campus geis
there around eleven o’elock) I
finally bulldozed my way up. to
the counter, and automatically

(Continued on Page 8)

 

®is now the- possessor of a very

fine skin. Milligan’s party also
brought home two bear skins althcugh it is wispered that the
bears and the party had a word
or two about finances before the
killing was made.

Capt. Milligan and Mr. Smith
were so cautious of their parties
that the groups returned without
having any hard luck explorers’
stories to tell. This is unfortunate
for the reader, but on the other
hand it would show bad orgz2nization which was definitely not
lacking.

The members of all the partics
received the grandest hospitality
from the Moravian Brethren along the coast and the work of
the Moravians and the Internat
ional Grenfell Association is be
yond praise.

The members of the edition
returned to Newfoundland v.. - -e
SS. Kyle while Prof. Douglas
returned in the motor boat down
the coast of Labrador and the
east side of the Long Peninsula
of Newfoundland.

PAGE SEVEN

Perfection Is Vain.

By
LEW

No matter how we mortals striye
We know, on brief reflection,

That strife is vain, for only God
Can ever give perfection.

Pursuit Of Happiness || a
“ale |

How happy is the man
Who gracefully elects,

To share the love he finds ey
With those whom he affects.

 

 

 

~’

TOO OLD NOW

When I was younger, with time to waste,

I might have gone in Glum Club Shows,

I could have been a little more serious,

Been a real D—A—L man,

I might have gone to the Citizen’s Forum
And argued interminably, spoken, rebutted,
Concerning the shortage of lowly-paid labour,
The implications of the Comintern revival, '
The effect of unrest in Outer Manchuria,

On the price of paper in Inner Yenan,

If the Communists weren’t there at the time,

And I could have been Rosalind in “As You Like It,”

I might have been the Duke, either Duke, both Dukes,
I should keve run for president, or Frosh Representative, aa
I could have done everything, anything — somehow... |

I could have written articles of frightful size, - f
Concerning the impasse in the U. N. O., £3
Analyzing Gromyko’s latest dicta,

Quoting Mrs. Roosevelt from time to time,

Implying most implicitly Democracy’s excellence,
The great god Democracy, the Icon of millions;
Which reposes in the bosom of a federal system

Of forty-eight states of dubious intelligence.

I might have exalted a military machine,

The Communist machine that crushes millions,

I could have supported conservative Liberals,

Radical Conservatives, or the C. C. F.,

Whose policies involved only state-owned street-cars,
Or the cheapness of bubble-cum, or Lord knows what.
When I think of all the things I might have done!

I might be the owner of a great big Gold D,

And wear it at dances,

 

meetings and games,

And I feel sort of pleased that I ain’t done nothing,
Nothing nohow, haven’t raised a finger,

Might do it now if I had the energy

(Great thing, energy) but won’t do nothing,

Too old now.
aes nsiinesatesnitsesshensstninisiessscinins
a patensnsesssisisissansuidanisie-sosiiasanenese>

B-rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Oh AS. SOTO S & oe er} 9 Teo © eh:

That Autumn wind is cold! Need a new topcoat? Why not
drop into SHANES and look over the large assortment showing
there? They carry a large stock of Covert Cloth, Velours, and
Gabardine topeoats in sizes that fit — styles expressly tailored
for the college student. With their long years of experience
in serving the college man behind them, SHANES are sure te
have on hand just the coat you want. They also carry a large
stosk of mens clothing and furnishings perfectly suited to fill out the holes in your fall wardrobe. So why not drop . and
pay a visit to

Shanes Men’s Wear Ltd.

112 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

“Where smart students congregate”

 

- ‘ai.

gab aie Ae ee
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
    
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  

: of Freshies and Upperoa I vate get a kick out

ae 8 er - or position, they make the
yen) cr appear as if they'd es

ding ‘for my twelve o’clock
ce was told of the forthcoming rip p to Acadia on the Twentytth th, T think, for the annual rug:
y t tilt. I wonder if the enthus| from Cathedral Barracks

za time-table, I headed

THE MARITIME LIFE
Head Office, Halifax, N. S.
TAKES PLEASURE IN
THE APPOINTMENT OF

ror ee.
COMMUNITY
CONCERT

(Continued from Page 6)

 

magnificant music. The Hebrew
invocation “Eli, Eli’ was beautifully sung. Again, the bass appeared weak in the glorious Russian liturgy, ‘“Hospodi Pomiloi,”
which again, was perhaps due to
the acoustical characteristics of
the Gymnasium. However, in their
arrangement the bass solo was
missing, which was unfortunate.
The final work of the “Lord’s
Prayer” was beautifully sung
throughout.

Generally this concert was very
fine. I cannot remember eyer
hearing a better male chorus in
Halifax, not forgetting General
Platoff’s Don Cossack Choir.

In closing, a word of welcome
to the Community concerts might
be appropriate. It is indeed fortunate that this series is being
held on the Campus, and that
students are allowed reduced

_Trates. In this way, many students

will be able to attend the concerts
whe were not able to do so last
year.

T. K. Bentley 
ANNOUNCING

MR. ROBERT E. HART,
FORMERLY CAPTAIN WITH THE
NORTH NOVAS, AS AN ADDITIONAL
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE MARI
TIME LIFE IN HALIFAX. WE HAVE
A PLAN TO FIT EVERY NEED
A. R. FRASER, C. L. U.

Manager Nova Scotia Branch
Green Lantern, ee Halifax, N. S.
Telephone ipecies S8OTAD

    
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   

 

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

Bee ‘Oxford Theatre
ss Fs Mon. Tue.
Garry Cooper in
_ CLOAK AND DAGGER
Wed. Thur.
BUCK PRIVATES
COME HOME
| FEAR IN THE NIGHT
| Fri. Sat,
«| NO LEAVE NO LOVE
| BLUE MONTANNA SKIES

 

381 NUR/ERIES Limited...
BARRINGTON /T- HALIFAX

 

 

 

 

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

__| DALHOUSIE RINGS
| Birks have in stock
| official college rings in
| 10K gold.

 

Starting Oct. 11th.

“DOWN TO EARTH”
A musical in technicolor

| Coming soon will be
Bes Rings with Gold Crests {
| mounted on black onyx.

| HENRY BIRKS & SONS
' LIMITED Starring— — —
Rita Hayworth &

Larry Parks

  

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

  

  

 

 

_

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

‘Ss Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL

 

 
 

   

COKE * FUEL OIL
_ OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
i “salon NS. DARTMOUTH, N. S.

‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

DVA

All students expecting benefits

should inspect the lists — one for
students registered before 1947-48
one for new students — in the

corridor of the Men’s Residence.
All omissions, inaccuracies, changes of address, etc., should be reported at once to Room 6, Veter
ans’ Adviser's Office. D. V- A.
Cheques are made from these
ames Secs as E.

DEPENDENTS’ ALLOWANCES:

All married students and others
claiming dependents’ allowances
must complete a statutory declar
ation. Those who have not done

 

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

SUPPER DANCE
EVERY

SATURDAY

DON WARNER

and his 12-piece ORCHESTRA

&

 

| EVANGELINE.

TEA ROOM
Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

       

  

FADER’S |
PHARMACY |
LIMITED |
Studley Drug Store |
29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store
141 Hollis St.

 

 

THE
GREEN LANTERN
RETAURANT |

‘The sign of a good meal’
407-409 Barrington St.

 

rye

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

so should await further announcement concerning time and place.
Allowances will not be paid unless
the declaration is made.
DENTAL TREATMENT:
Students under benefits who require dental treatment should report directly to the office of Dr.
G. M. Logan, Camp Hill Hospital
(ground floor new Administrative
Viing.) Forms from the Veterans’
Adviser's Office are no longer required,

 

FROSH ORATORS E.

Oct. 7 — With the avowed aim
of taking the Viscount Bennett
Shield from its position on the
Law walls, the Arts & Science
Debating Manager, Lew Miller,
held debating trials-this evening

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10

to select inter-faculty representatives from among the freshman
class.

“After hearing you speak tonight,” said Miller at the conclusion of the trials, “I feel quite
eonfident that we shall regain
that shield.”

Those chosen to appear on the
rostrum this year are: David
Graham, Al Harris, Malcolm Graham, Sherman Zwicker, Ken Coldwell and John Trim.

Judges were: Whitney Dalrymple, President of Sodales;
Beb Kaill, vice-president of Sodales; Jack MacCormack, Senior
Representative for Arts and
Science, and Bernal Sawyer, President of Arts andScience.

 

THE NOVA SCOTIA
TECHNICAL COLLEGE

Offers Degree Courses In
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, CHEMICAL
METALLURGICAL, AND MINNING ENGINEERING
Twenty Scholarships of $75.
Scotia Studens holding Engineering Diplomas:
Instructional

Modern Equipment,
Experience.

r APPLY FOR CALENDAR
ALLEN E. CAMERON, PRESIDENT

 

 

—

featuring —

Piano

Willis

 

Attractively set up departments

® BOOKS

® MUSIC

® RECORDS

| @ PIANOS

® ELECTRIC. APPLIANCEE

127 Granville St.
| | HALIFAX, N. S.

each are Offered To Nova

Staff with Individual

 

Co. Limited

(at Duke),

 

ee ae

§

SISDVLADIADIPIDMILIDIASPAADAAIAALAIIA LAA IALIIALIIIADDIIIAA 5

EATON’S For

Smart Neckwear

(jt Men’s Wear Department on the Main Floor
offers a good variety of ties for your selection!
...Patterns and colour combinations galore...
also the always-popular plain shades.
EATON’S Main Floor ;
Each $1.00 to $5.00

EATON

MARITIMES

SALAIAAAILADIAANN AMAA

a 1.

 

lt tt et te te

A Wide

a et a ek

LIMITED

OM Me ee ee ee ae

,
;
'
S
.
S
\
‘
A
ip
,
¥,
’
:
’
5
‘
;
‘
A
’
’

     
      
 
 
 

we et ee we a

tt ee pa ae

 

ry

fe

~~

A

     
      
        
       
     
  
