   

        

 

   
   
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
     

 

 

Lusher and Moreira

An experiment in co-operation

Last week campus comment
was rife to the effect that the
Students’ Council would turn,
thumbs down on the application
of Jack Lusher and Art Moreira
for joint editorship of next year’s
Gazette. These comments were
unfounded, Monday night, at
special meeting of the Council,
called to discuss next year’s appointments, Lusher and Moreira
were given the go-ahead sign.

Both men are highly qualified
for theiy position, having served
two years on the staff of the
Gazette. In the 1947-48 season
Jack and Art served as News
Editor and Features Editor .respectively.

 

ENGLISH 2 — 1948-49

_ All students who are not now
in English 1 or 1A, and who expect to take English 2 (or 2A)
in 1948-49 are requested to place

‘their names on a hist outside
Room 6, Men’s Residence.

C. L. Bennet.

 

JACK BOUDREAU

Chairman of the Munro Day
committee and candidate for Presidency of Students’ Council —
‘(dppotated Publicity aes for
1948-49, sere

 

Tigers In
Newfie

 

Dalhousie Tigers failed to win
the intercollegiate hockey championship this year, but at least
they were successful in capturing one title—the unofficial senior championship of all Newfoundland.

Recently returned from a flying visit to Terra Nova, the Tigers
brought back tales of hospitality
and good cheer—of winning four
hockey contests before record
crowds of spectators—and of a
strong, well-organized Dalhousie
alumni that celebrated the visit
of a Dalhousie varsity team as
one of the greatest events in
many years.

The Tigers defeated Gander
All Stars 21-7, Grand Falls All
Stars 11-8 and 14-7, and St.
Bon’s the Newfoundland Senior
Champions, 3-2 A truly fine record. All expenses of the trip,
from the front door of the gymnasium to Newfoundland = and
back to the front door of the
gymasium, were paid by The
Grand Falls Athletic Association,
who,
profit on the series—a_ series
which, it is expected, will become
an annual affair, with a game in
St. John’s. included.

Grand Falls boasts a fine new
rink, a $400,000 artificial ice
plant and spectators stands, called
the Grand Falls Stadium, the finest facilities foy hockey east of

Montreal. In Gander, an aireraft

hangar has been converted into
a rink, and serves adequately aceording to reports of members
of the Dalhousie team who played there.

:

HALIFAX, N.S.

it is believed, made a fair’

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 1948

ee Oe ae ” eT Ree
Z 5 roe

    

DAL JUNIOR
BASKETBALL

_ TEAM WINS:
MARITIME TITLE

At present en ‘goute to Montreal hoping for Canadian title.

No, 20

LHOUSIE’S GREATEST YEAR
BEEN CONTROVERSIAL ONE

YEAR FEATURED FOOTBALL,
PHONY ELECTION, PINAFORE
DISPUTE AND AGREEMENT

 

Convocation Week
Activities

Tues. May 4 — Buffet Supper
given by the Alumni at Sherriff
Hall.

Fri. May 7 — Gymn Dance
(informal) Don Warner’s Orchestra.

Sat May 8 — Convocation re
hersal; tree planting.
; Sun May 9 — Baccalaurate
Service (evening) St. Andrews
Church.

Tues May 11 — Convocation
Exercises,

Tues. May 11 Convocation Ball
Don Warner and his Orchestra.

Pharos Will Be Out
This Month

“Tf all arrangements proceed
as planned, the Paros (Dalhousie
Year Book) will be out before the
end of exams with the Law
School section distributed before
the students concerned depart
for their homes,” was the announcement made by Ron Caldwell, editor of the year book.

This years’ Pharos will have
a number of changes over last
years’, for ever since the Counceil took ovey publication rights
the quality of the Book has improved steadily, and this year
will be no exception.

 

 

 

RON CALDWELL

This year’s editor of Pharos —
reappointed to the editorship for
Aiding him in the
capacity of MHusiness

will be Lew Miller.

next year.

Manager

be Tea it ‘3 ; es wees * )

It is noon, Wednesday, — a
wet, gray Wednesday. All the
copy for this, the final Gazette of
the year, has gone to the print
er’s -- gone in a folder carried

on one of the ramshackle Hali
fax tram cars through the cobblestone streets to the printers’ way
down on Hollis Street.

As I sit alone in the gray halflight that has always been a feature of the Gazette office -_ even
since the introduction of fluorescent lighting -- the events of the
past school year seem to :pass in
review beforg my eyes.

Early in September, almost a
month before schcol -opened, a
rugged group of individuals began.to gambol on the football
field -, Dalheusie’s first Canadian
football team. They first appeared before the students on Sept.
27 when they ttook the field to
edge the highly-rated St. Mary’s
squad 9-7. Bob MacDonald scored the touchdown -- the first
touchdown ever scored by a Dalhousie Canadian football team.

With the first football game
came initiation -- tthe sight of
freshmen decked out in outlandish garb — and the pep rallies
that culminated in the painting
of various pieces of property,
the monstey snake dance that enthralled the citizens of Halifax
for the great part of one evening,
and the lugidation of St. Mary’s
ancient fence. No Dalhousie student will forget easily the Pat
Shaw incident.

While all the enthusiasm for
Canadian football was whipping
students into the highest pitch of
spirit in years, the intermediate
English rugby squad went ahead
quietly and to the surprise of
everyone but themselves took the
Maritime championship. Zen
Graves recently received the
necessary approval for the purchase of jackets for team members to mark their championship
calibre.

During all this activity, classes
were going ahead steadily, Don
Warner was tooting at the. Gym
dances, and Denne Burchill’s fiveman symphony was providing the
musie for the common room
dances. Exams came along, and
the Christmas holidays. Then the
exam list in the lower gymnasium
and the beginning of hockey and
basketball schedules. The hockey
team had only a fair season as
had the intercollegiate and juvenile basketball squads, but now

the Juniors, already Nova Scotian

*

mainland Gein are to meet

‘the Cape Breton winners in the —
next step of their march aimed

at the Dominion Junior champion.
ship.

The arguments of the past season have been many, the agreements, usually, amicable. There
was the “Hardrok Stone” incident, the flop of “As You Like
it”’, the succesful productions of
Deay Ruth and Pinafore. There
were the election campaigns leading to the unfortunate spectacle
of a student ‘election being declared in-valid. All candidates for
the presidency of the Students’
Council were highly. embarassed
by the decision which, actually,
came about through a technical
erroy by the election committee.

During all: this time the. Gazette
had been fighting a running war
with the President’s office, a war
that was settled peaceably, after
a member of. the staff resigned
because it was not the- policy’ ta
interfere.

Munro Day has come and gone
-- what an institution what a
hangover. Once each year the
students and some others let
their hair-down and celebrate on
the second Tuesday in Mareh —
this year was no exception. More
went on than met the eyes of the
F.B.I. A lot more. :

Now it is time to write three
noughts at the bottom of this acticle and put the Gazette to bed
for another issue. Before closing
however, [ find - it necessary to
toss a bouquet to the hard-working students’ council, and te
ponder on the peculiay mental
make-up of the Dalhousie Law
student who has cheered for every
team that played. against Dalhousie all year, and never once
had a word of hope for the Dalhousie team. Maybe lke won’t be
here next year. Goodbye now.

| NOTICE ©
Mulgrave Park will not provide
sufficient for
student veterans, many

of whom have had

. accommodation
married
inadequate,
housing fo, some time. The Office of the University Veteran
Adviser will be glad to receive
information concerning suitable

apartments in the city that may

be vacant at any time during the

summey, or early fall. Graduating
students’ and othets yacating apartments are particularly reques-.
ted te give information that will

lead to the placing of other stu
dents. Men’s Residence, Room 6;
Telephone 3-7880.:: :

  
 
    
     
  
     
    
       
    
       
   
    

  

  
     
     

 

? .

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

    
 
   
   
 
 
   
    

* ee *. °«
Editor-in-Chief
ed LEW MILLER 7
g Editor Business Manager
LOCKWO AL..RUBIN
I " } Sports Features
JACK LUSHER BOB TUCK ART MOREIRA
ae. ALF. Page Editors

way ek
E
a *

MINGO, JOE LEVISON, J. TRIM, SHERBURNE McCURDY
ANNE DeCARTERET (Literary)

a ote Associates
UI ) KINGSBURY, MARJ GOLBURGH, BEV HUNTINGTON
ee a Circulation :

‘JAN ROBERTSON, MANAGER, D. SADOFSKY, M. RITCHIE

JERRY JOHNSON, A. de CARTERET, BEV HUNTINGTON. |
Photographers... DANNY SOBERMAN, DICK GLUBE, E. RICHTER

Proof Readers. MIRIAM GLUBE MANAGER, BETTY THOMPSON

pt D. SADOFSKY
ds stant Business Manager -......0::::.::0000 tac shontihs ROBIN MacLEAN
“Exchange Manager /......0.::.0: Riera. apical. a. PETER SEDERIS
ba pc ccL cee cencbhicuegeegstssenntaseres <r occncesommense .. STU WALLACE
: i oo Ki x Reporters seve

on ee om

  

  
    
  
  

ATSY PIGOT, BOB McQUINN PHILLIP SIMON — Dent Society.
ol 79. FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1948

THANKLESS JOBS

= Tp the midst of hubbub created by the introduction
2 of a newly-elected Students’ Council an important group
gf students is often overlooked. Hence the GAZETTE,

aa

x vw? T *
pe ns o
és Teles Ae “|
ae ie ;
r i =
os
E

 
 

ey,
ie
'

 

 

 

~{ ey ee

 

 
    
    
    
  
  
   
 
 

in ‘behalf of the many students who have voiced such
_ thoughts, takes the opportunity of expressing apprec”
_jation for a job well-done to Ross Hamilton and the

ey 795 aoe

tgoing Council.

Often it happens that students who undertake such
_yesponsibilities are faced with so many difficulties that
their efforts, to themselves, seem scarcely worthwhile.
_ This year’s Council is no exception, and many long,

tedious hours have been spent over the council table
pondering seemingly insoluble problems. That their efss forts may not go unheralded the GAZETTE wishes to
say _to every member of this year’s Council—WELL
we DONE!

y if

LJ

  

 

HOME GAMES

~ --‘We are going to encroach upon the preserves of
the Sports Editor and vent our grievances where sport
i is concerned, At the Dal — St. F. X. game we found

 

a ourselves contemplating a situation that has existed for
, a long time here, and which is getting worse. The Dal
F team was playing what is called a “home game’ in a
} decidedly ‘hostile rink, where, it seemad to us, half of
i  Hialifax’s greats unwashed gathered to make insulting,

|  -- yemarks about Dal players in particular and Dal in
Spaoy general. Students were scatteded here and there, and
ss their support was largely genuine and whole-hearted,
Hut lost in the noise emanting from the general public.
_ This would be quite funny somewhere else, but it is
appalling if we ourselves can regard the situation with
equanimity. If the University will not build us our own
sink, and if the Alumni or the Council cannot raise
qnoney on their own for the project, the least that we
and the team are entitled to expect is decent seating
_ for all the students in one*block, where they can support
the team. pe
The same situation arose last term at the Wanderex's field and will undoubtedly arise again next year.
he people in charge of obtaining rinks or fields for
- Dal games must reverse a section for students. The
' - Yeast a team should expect is support: and how can they
_—s get it if the student spectators are lost in a crowd of
people whose attitude suggests that they look on Dal
and the Devil (in order of merit) as the two great evils
in the Universe. The new Council should investigate
xe situation NOW, and the very least they should do
is ensure a Dal section at every hired rink, field or any
ther place we may use for athletics when our teams

fe
Mia
me 3
: 1p.
fen aes “a
:
,
ve
‘

   
     
  
   
  
   

     
 
  
  

(Continued on page 8)


THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Czech Students

Hope For War

Note: The following letter is
reprinted from the University of
Saskatchewan SHEAF.

 

During the recent crisis in
Czechoslovakia hundreds of students from the ancient Charles
University established in Prague
in 1348 marched to the residence

of President Benes singing their
national anthem as a protest against the threat of cummunism
to their government. They were

disbanded by police but succeeded
in issuing a formal proclamation
of opposition. This is the first
letter to be received by a student
on the campus since the crisis.~
Czechoslovakia, Feb. 25

“IT hope that you are well informed about the present situation here and that you know what
will happen here is not based on

democracy any more. I hope that
you really believe that many of
the people here are democratic
and that this you will realize also in the future whatever may
happen here.

Has the proclamation of the
Czech students reached you,—it
was one of the last voices of freedom. Several of the students are
already arrested.

I don’t know at all that this
letter will reach you. For the future please quote in your letters
only that you have received mine
and in which state, but do not
refer to its contents. I will no
longer sign my name or give my
return address.

What is the world political situation like according to your opinion. We now hope that the
new war will come soon, it is no
avoiding. But of course it will be
a terrible solution. The Russians
need still Austria and their position in Europe will be safe,

As I have heard the French

’ minishey of forign affairs realizes

that the situation is similar to
that one which was nine years ago
when the Germans invaded
Prague, which is key to Europe.
I think that he is right and hope
that the consequence will be the
same. But nobody can sufvive
here such long wary any more,
especially because df the food
conditions which are worse than
in 1939. The rations were cut
down still more and a“starvation
is expected.

 

EDITORIAL NOTE:

An article in last week’s GAZETTE entitled “The _ International”, was a personal opinion of
one of the members of th. GAZETTE staff, and as such should
have had a by-line. The opinions
expregsed are not necessarily
those of the editorial board of
the GAZETTE.

 

NOTICE r
The Dalhousie Council of Stu
dents is now calling for applications for the position of summer
manager for the Dalhousie Personal Services. All applicateions
to be sent to M. M. Rankin,
9813 Edward St., not later than

carries a salary.

* a x % *

FLASH — The Dalhousie protest on the game which St. F.X.
won in overtime on Saturday has
been allowed and the game will
be replayed.

cS é a
bia? Awe Se ee a
ee Eee

   
   

As far as I’m concerned it
means a tobacco you can smoke all
day long. That my friend is the real test!!
..-- Can you smoke your brand ail day
long and come up for more? If not,
then try PICOBAC! For a cool, easy
packing, smooth burning, fragrant

 
 

smoke, there is nothing better.

Picobac ts the pick of the Burley Crop, grown in
’ sunny southern Ontario,

GET SOME TO-DAY!

The Pick of Pipe Tobaccos

5 Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL.
COKE * FUEL OIL ;

 

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

 

rs FADER’S
EVANGELINE PHARMACY
TEA ROOM LIMITED

Commonly known as JOE'S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

Studley Drug Store

—

"29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store
141 Hollis St.

—_—_————

  

 

Halhousie Alniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia
Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes

The Faculty of Arts and Scienca
enjoys international distinction

 

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science Mining Geology
Pre-Professional Courses

 

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments
Inclusive Fees in the B. Sc. course about $210.00 a year
in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held im
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.
The Professional Faculties

SS ee et ee
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service
students,

Meals for all students are available at the eee
For full information wr.te te THE REGISTRAR.

i 2 sale ell ees a, veel ay’, aati . t Ags
a Sa ak el Bh ys ty Gig Pe ee bee le a el A ad a Ct oe

 
   
 

 
 

 

 

 

‘s Permission To Begin

F all Training In ig In September

Plans for next year’s hs, Camels Football are under
‘way according to an announcement mdde by Lew Miller, 1948-49 manager. Ameeting of all last year's players as well as those wishing to play next year has been
set for Thursday, March 25, to discuss ‘a number of
topics intended to improve the caliber and the efficiency

of the team.

One of the greatest difficultjes of the coming year will be
the obtaining of a practice field.

- Due to the abominable condition

ef the present field, it has been
desided by the university autherities to repair the quarry,
which will take from two to
three years. Meanwhile it will not
be able to be used.

An effort is being made to
convene the team at least two
ry three weeks before the commencemeént of the term. This was
attempted last year, for the benifit of the English team but fell
throtgh becatise of the lack of
organization. It is hoped that
those living out of town can be
brought in, with some of their
expenses carried by the football
budget.

The City League will again
operate next season and we can
only hope that it will be handled
as sufficiently as it was last year
undér the artful direction of
John MacCormack, physical directoy for the university. At least
four teams will be back, Navy,
last years’ champions; Wanders
Club; St. Mary’s AA, and Dalhousie.

More equipment jis expected.
Last year the team had only
etwenty-four sets of uniforms.
This crowded system didn’t help
matters the least bit, but with
two dozen new sets of equipment
more players will be able to turn
out for practice and also more
men will be carried on the team.

At a meeting of next year’s
DAAC, held last Tuesday, Lew
Miller, retiring editor of the Gazette was named manager of the
team and Jerry MacCurdy was
mamed assistent manager.

So far no other university in

_ thp Maritimes has expressed a

wish to compete with Dal in Canedian Football, but it is hoped
that soon some broad minded
person will try and convince the
many colleges in this end of Canada that this sport can be introduced without interfering
with any other type of sport of
it’s own kind. Dal is open for all
kinds of competition and it is
hoped that the team will not
have to go too far west in seeking intercollegiate play.

Coach Bill Burkart, one of the
men most responsible for the remarkable showing of Dal’s first
team, will again be coaching.

On next year’s team it is expected that there will be a goodly percentage of last year’s stalwarts, among whom will be Bob
MacDonald, Bob Wil¥on. Peter
Mingo, Don Weodward, Pete
Feron, Doug Jaggs, Bob MeQuinn,
Don eet Bert oe J obuny

 

Students Are Being
Helped In Obtaining
Summer Employment

 

All undergraduates who do not
yet have any good prospects of
Summer employment and _ all
graduates still seeking permanent
employment should note that Mr.
G. A, Rice of the National Employment Service will be in the
Registrar's Offide Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday of each week
from 1.30 to 4.30 p.m. to register students and discuss employment opportunities.

Each student who is really
serious about employment should
register as soon as possible. We
cannot contact students who are
not registered.

The University will endeavour
to open up opportunities for employment to students, but each
student should make the maximum use of his own connections
and resources. Every student is

asked to report as soon as he.

obtains employment.

 

Canadian Passenger
Student Service Is
Again Operating

Canadian Passenger Association Teachers’ and Pupils’ vacation Certificates are now available
at the Office of the Register.

Territory

Between all stations in Canada,
also from stations in Canada to
stations in Newfoundland, and
to certain border points in the
United States.

Fares

Current normal one-way fare
and one-quarter for the round
trip; minimum charge, for adults
or children, 30 cents, (slightly
different basis applies on the
Newfoundland Railway and its
steamer lines.)

Limits
; Tickets good going from
Thursday, March 12, to and including Monday, March 29, 1948:
valid to commence return journey not later than midnight on
Tuesday, April 13th. 1948.

 

 

Lindsay, Peter MacDonald, Herb
Aslin, Kenny Reardon, Rosie
MacMillan, Paul Lee, Jog Levison,
Murray Malloy, Bob Beers, Tom
Belliveau, Bill Pearson, Jamie
MacKay, Neil MacKelvery, and

_ George Mattison.

   
   
  

 

 

Gordon Hart, winner of the Climo
Trophy, for the best all around
athlete of the year, will graduate
this year from the Law School.
Gord, at one time took part in
varsity. hockey, football, basket
‘ball and tennis.

e

-_
HALIFAX, N. S. FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1948

PLANS FALL TRAINING

nadian F otal Team

 

 

 

No. 20

A Standing Invitation
To All Maritime Universities

Following a successful first year in their venture
into Canadian football, the Dathousie Tigers are mter- |
ested to see an increase mm the Maritimes of this sport.
Next fall the Dal team will convene in Halifax prior
to the commencement of the term, and, hoping to be
in condition early in the year, they desire competition

with other universities.

The GAZETTE would be pleased, H this. notice
were brought to the attention of Athletic Clubs on the
various campuses. Information concerning the startmg
of a Canadian football team will be supplied by the
Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club. Please address correspondence to R. Knickle, 16 Harvey Street Halifax,

N.S.

 

o

CONVOCATION
TO BE HELD
MAY 10, 1948

 

Physical Director Secures
Trip For Varsity Team

ae

John MacCormack

 

Same Old Trouble
I; Reported By
Many Dal Students

 

Every term about this time—
just before exams—trouble arises
over the old examination papers
that King’s Library places out
foy the benefit of Dal-King’s students. The trouble—a few selfish individuals cannot be bothered with remaining in the library
to copy the papers and so decide to take them to their respective cloisters. Already this
year it is noticeable that some
papers—noltably History 5—are
lacking.

It is to be hoped that the culprit responsible will have enough
morals to think of other students.
King’s Librarians are under no
obligation to place the exams at
our disposals, and it is possible
that any abuse of this privilege

will cause even the selfish-ones
to. suffer.

 

John MacCormack, physical
director for the students of Dalhousie, achieved success today,
March 18, as he left Dartmouth
airport at 11 a.m., with fourteen
varsity hockey players and two
managers, bound for Newfoundland, to play three exhibition
games with teams from the island.

Arrangements which have been
going on for the past five months
to obtain some team other than
one in the Maritimes for competition, were finally completed
through the agressiveness and
artful direction of the physical
director. The team was scheduled
to play one game at Gander and
two at Grand Falls.

John MacCormack has been the
physical director at Dalhousie for
the past two years and has been
outstanding for his organization
ability, notably for his help in the
founding of the Halifax Canadian Football League, which functioned this year for the first time
in Halifax and in the development
of inter-faculty sport.

This latest trip, we hope, will
be the beginning of an annual

 

 

Pharos Year Book
Announces Winner
OF Photo Contest

The winner of the photo eontest originated by the Pharos
Year Book office, is Richard
“Dipe’ Marshall, a first year
Commerce student and one of the
more prominent followers of
photography in the university,
according to an announcement
made by Ron Caldwell, editor of
the annual publiation.

The first prize of ten dollars
wag given for the best collection of pictures entered. Second
prize, which was to be given for
the most outstanding single photograph, was not awarded because
the judges decided that none of
the entrys were worthy of it.

This is the first year such an
arrangement was tried by the
Pharos staff, and proved very
successful in gaining candid
camera shots for the Year Book,

 

series with Newfoundland. It has.
been the beginning of a new era
in the history of Dalhousie athletics. This is proof that organized games with teams outside
the Maritimes can be arranged
and carried out, even if it constitutes a certain amount of
hard and persistent work which
is really appreciated not only
by the students taking part but
also by those who wish to see the
namé of Dalhousie University
noted and respected, throughout
the country.

|= THE GALLOP POLL pe

Conducted At A Fast Trot

By Patsy Pigot

This being the last issue of the
year, the Gazette’s researcher has
taken the chance of asking student opinion on the past Gazettes.
Student opinion was hardly favourable on the whole, some students having a tendency to deliver ideas on the subject without facts with which to back them
up.

Ron Coldwell, Editor of Pharos
thought that the news cover was
good after th events had taken

place, but that a bulletin board
should be included in every issue

 

to give the students a programme
of the following week’s activities,
“Some of the features are too
wordy,’ he _ stated “especially
some of the reviews. The features
department of next year’s Gazette
should attempt to vary its fare
a little more.’

Maryln Hebb felt that the Gaz.
ette should be more of a student publication, and that its
pages were too dominated by the
faculty.”

Marge O'Neill,

‘Continued on Page &:

winner of the

 

 
    
  
  

         
 
   
   
  

 

 

Which appear on Page 1.

    

ie ya pd ene
i TEA he
Pye.

Met. edad

ete tt

i! ee by
fi;

.
Ah

 

Tape
se hee ahr
i . 7 i - en
- s fy euty h
: he @ whe sf f it

 

REPORT

BY BOB TUCK

 

—

Up at Acadia Tuesday night the shattered remnants of what
could have been one of Dalhousie’s greatest hockey teams went down

to ignominious defeat at the hands of the notorious apple-knockers

of Acadia. The score was 12-5, and once more it was the old tale
of the senile Tiger having his tail tweaked by more virile and
‘better drilled opposition. The loss to St. F. X. on Saturday destroyed

all chance of lifting the intercollegiate crown and the shadow of a
nce bright hope was not enough to spur the team to a victory over
the arch-enemies. of Wolfville. There were many factors, in the deeline and fall of the Dalhonsie Tigers. Some we can’t mention here.
The injury to Willy Robertson was an important factor. But if Willy
‘had remained intact’ the result would have been the same, although
‘the degree would have been less. There was the lack of practice and conditioning that showed itself in most of the games. There
were loyalties to other eams which interferred with practices and
games. There was the utter failure of the student body to support
the team. The student body of Dalhousie will never support its team
‘until the university supplies a rink. And there is the crux of the
‘whole matter. A rink. Give us a rink and you will give us morale.
Morale wag,impossible on the 48 hockey Tigers. Actually, they had
it but lost it. Dalhousie never, had a team which fought harder or
‘put forth greater effort. But they didn’t have a chance.

"7 2] eould ramble.on for hours. |

Sherman Zwicker, illustrious and hard working assistant manage; of the hockey team, summed up the situation in one word. It
was up at Acadia, and already the score had achieved. indecent
proportions. Sherm was returning to the bench with a beer bottle
filled with wate; intended for the admirable purpose of slaking the
thirsts of Dalhousie’s sweating athletes. A dutiful policeman of the
local constabulary flat-footed his way up to Zwicker and threatened
,to pinch him. Sherm, with a meaning that went deeper than the
circumstances of the moment, uttered in a loud voice a common
four letter word which we cannot print here. All the troubles, all
‘the vicecissitudes he and the team had suffered, went into his invec‘tive. In that one word Sherm uttered the epitaph of the chances of
@ fine bunch of hockey players and a fine bunch of fellows, We'l
Jeave it at that.

" To the junior basketball team is left the last chance of championships. Unless something particularly drastic happens, these boys
“will soon be crowned the Maritime Junioy Basketball Champion
(perhaps We shouldn’t have put all that in capital letters). Then
‘comes the struggle which will carry the team into the Dominion
‘playdowns. If they play as they played in the first half of the game
‘against Acadia here the other afternoon, there will be no cause
‘for regret. And quite possibly there will be good cause for rejoicing.
The juniors appear to be hot right now, and they can continue to
keep the opposition on the griddle if they stay on the pace. New
"Waterford is next, and the series—two game—tetal point—comes
“up in the gym. on Friday and Saturday. It would be good to see a
‘big turn-out and let the boys know they’re not‘alone .

- The hockey team is leaving the country. We just got this piece
of information from team manager Joe Levison. Joe says that a
plane has been chartered, and arrangements made to fly to an
aborigonal hinterland. Actually, that’s not as bad as it sounds—the
boys are just going up to play hockey. (The place they’re going is
Newfoundland in case you haven’t already guessed.) Knowing the
difficulties which seem to beset the appe&rence of the Gazette
‘each week, we won’t say more, because the results of the three
games the ‘team is to play will probably be well known by the time
this appears.’

To the post of next year’s Canadian Football manager comes
Lew Miller, retiring editoy of the Gazette. Lew has the experien¢e and the ability to successfully fill his new job, and if ‘he is
Ziven the ‘adhesive tape and the wintergreen there will
be no doubt as to the efficient managership of the team. Perhaps
we will find the team listening to editorials instead of pep talks
between halves. |

The other day we conceived the idea of having‘an all-star intercollegiate hockey team made up. After sending letters to the various
Sports editors of the college papers concerned we have two replies
‘with two to hear from. At the moment Shorty MacDougall of St.
. X. is the unaminious choice for all-star goal, followed by Bliss
jheslte of Dal. On defense, Windy O'Neill with 15 points, Rosie MacMillan 8, MacGillvray ofSt: F. X. 11, and MacDonald of Tech with
.8, are the leaders. Forwards are MacIntyre, St. F. X. 15 points;
Robertson, Dal 9; Chovinard, Tech 8; Fergusson, Tech 8; Cleary,
St. F. X. 6; MacGillvray, S.M.C., 8. Fred Kelly of Acadia is unaminous choice for coach so far, and Fathey McKenna has reveived
all votes for second team coach. Choices from Acadia and Tech
have not yet been received.

NOTICE

Most of the Gazette copy
had been at the prmters and
set into type when it was
decided 'to hold the issue
for news of appointments

 

CONVOCATION PLANS
Committee to arrange class

memorial Chairman ........ Verna
Leonard.

Convocation committee ChairPAA To: Bernie Creighton.

Information on the Convocatjon program will be circulated
on both campi in advance of the
Convocation activities,

|

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| DAL TIGERS BOW OUT
| XAVIERIANS WIN TWO

 

ST. F. X. BEATS DAL
AT ANTIGONISH 53

 

Except for the last ten minutes
of the game, St. F. X. outplayed
Dalhousie by a wide margin at
Antigonish Thursday to skate
cff with a 5-3 win to take the
replay of a 3-3 tie ‘played between the two teams earlier in
the season. Bliss Leslie played
one of his finest games of the
year, and it was largely the stout

work of the colorful net-minder
that kept the score close. St. F.
X. outshot the Tigers 45-30.
The Xavierians controlled the
play for the greater part of the
first period, but the score was
tied 1-1 at the end of the canto.
Chouinard scored first for the
home team and O’Neill tied it
up at 18.55 on a pass from Mont.
St. F. X. upped the score to 2-1
with the only marker of the second period, Cleary scoring from
MacIntyre at 9.25, and the Xavierians were never headed. The
first ten minutes of the third
period were all St. F. X., the
Antigonishers scoring three times
and outshooting Dal 15-0. However, the Tigers showed a complete reversal of form as the
game.drew to a close, and had
the Xavierians on the ropes at
the end. Adamson. scored from
O’Neill at 14.17, and Reardon
counted less than three minutes
later from Malloy and Brown.

Dal’s Gals
In
Sp ort

By Noelle Barter

 

 

 

Ah Spring is sprung—so they
tell us; frankly, we can’t see it,
but we can see approaching exams. Andwith thei; approach
activities cease. The year’s sports
will be concluded this week when
Dal I meets Dal II in a much
looked forward to game on Monday night, and when the badminton team journies to U.N.B. on
Thursday for the intercollegiate
meet. Roses to Mrs. MacKeigan
for the grand job she has done
as Physical Directress. As Coach,
she turned out two good basketkall teams. Varsity won a closely
ecntested exhibition match with
the Maritime title holders—Mt.
A.—and the Intermediates captured the Maritime intermediate
title, and also won their section
of the City League over Dal III,
Y.W.C.A. and King’s. However
they lost the City title on Saturday to Q.E.H. Grads by a score
of 17-9. At half time tthe score
was 7-6 for Dal, but the Grads
displayed too much power in the
second half of the game. Dal’s
Gals also turned in an excellent
performance in the Intercollegjate Swimming Meet when they
copped the title. The ground
hockey, Tennis and badminton
teams have had a very successful year too. All in all, things
went well—due {to the haird
working executive, Pat MacKeigan’s expert supervision and the
wholehearted support of the girls.
Our only regret is that we do
not have a full-time physical instructress; if we did—just watch
our smoke!

 

Friday, March 19, 1948

     

 

a *

ST. F. X. DEFEATS DAL 6-4 IN HALIFAX
MacDOUGAL SCORES 4 FOR VISITORS

The puck-chasing edition of the St. F. X. Xavierians eliminated
Dalhousie from the Nova Scotia intercollegiate title hunt with a
clean cut 6-4 win at the Halifax Forum. St. F. X. won the game in
the first period when they outplayed the Tigers by a wide margin
and took a 3-0 lead. Dal outscored the Xavierians 4-3 in the final
two periods, but the closest they ever got to the fast skating team

 

from Antigonish was within one goal.

From MacGillvray’s first goal
which bounded past Leslie off
Kenny Reardon’s skate, the Xavierians were never headed, and
they went on to win on better
team play and better conditioning. MacDougall scored fon; goals
in the rough fixture and was the
outstanding man on the ice. The
gam, was slowed up considerably
in spots by penalties and several

 

For St. F. X., Shorty MacDoug.
all, Cleary and MacIntyre were
outstanding, while for Dal besides Leslie, O’Neill, MacMillan
and Adamson played strong

SUMMARY

First Period;
1, St. F. X. — Chouinard (A.
Chaisson) 7.53
2. DALHOUSIE—O’Neill (Mont)
18.55

penalties — Seatalone, Adamson, Mont, MacIntyre

Second Period;

3. St. F. X. — Cleary (MacIntyre) 9.25

Third Period;
4. St: FL x. -— MacIntyre

(Cleary) 1.24

5. St. F. X. — MacIntyre (Chouinard, Chaisson) 3.19

6. St. F. X. — Cleary (MacGillvary) 7.25

7. DALHOUSIE — Adamson
(O’Neill)
8. DALHOUSIE — Reardon

(Malloy, Brown) 17.01

rhubarbs, the feature of which
was a mixup between O’Neill and
MacIntyre.

The Xavierians outshot Dal 3025 and were the better team on
the’ play. |

SUMMARY

First Period;

. St. Fy X. — MacGillvray 7.45
2. St. F. X. — MacIntyre (Mac
Dougall) 13,15
. St. F. X. — MacDougall (Mac
Intyre) 14.31

penalty — MacIntyre

shots — by St. F. X. 18, Dal

9

Second Period;

4. DALHOUSIE — Brown (Rear
don, Malloy) .25

ht

ce

5. St. F. X — MacDougall
(Cleary) 12.58
6. DALHOUSIE — MacMillan

(Knickle) 15.56

penalties —- MacIntyre (2),
Graves, Cleary (minor and
misconduct)

shots — by St. F.. X. 6, by
Dal. 7

Third Period;

7. DALHOUSIE—Brown’ (Reardon) .37

8. St. F. X.  — MacDougall

(Chaisson, MacGillvray) 2.57

9. DALHOUSIE—Adamson (O’.
Neill) 6.22

10. St.. F. X.—MacDougall (Cleary) 10.32
penalties—Malloy,
O’Neill. ‘
shots—by St. F. X. 6, by Dal 9

MacIntyre,

 

 
  
 
 
 
   
   

be Shor

petheTall
pe

ae ...as the Army
cee

song goes

Or just about every
man-jack of you...

Veterans, peagreen freshmen
and all, will appreciate the colorful
assortment of
Arrow shirts, ties

and handkerchiefs.

Shirts— famous Arrow collar (neatest-fitter extant)
SANFORIZED labelled— guaranteed never

to shrink out of fit.

Ties — handsome - knotting, wrinkle -repulsing.
And what patterns! ee

Handkerchiefs —color-mate with Arrow shirts and

ties — like quotes ‘

t 99

on a “quote’’,

Who sells’em? Your nearest Arrow dealer!

ARROW

SHIRTS

TIES © HANDKERCHIEFS

 

 

le a Saal

2 St e's a se MTR FEL Ae

~

*
 
 

me Rate oe the student body tu
| DAAC. President Windy O’“Neill: and his executive for the
fine work they have done this
year for athletics at Dalhousie.

Ne _ Never has the D.A.A.C. been more
ably administered, and seldom
| kas a D.A.A.C. President and his
executive overcome with such
ss signal success so many trying pro
blems.

Windy O’Neill has proved himself one of the ablest and most
enthusiastic Dalhousians ever to
take part in student affairs, and
there is no empty meaning to the
opinion held by many that it was

 
 

  

F pe
lf

 
 

  

  

 

Hockey Team
Flying To
Newfie

Varsity hockey manager Joe
Levison announced Tuesday night
that the puck-chasing Dalhousie
Tigers would fly to Newfoundland for a three game series with
teams in the Old Colony. The
team will leave by aeroplane
Thursday and return on Sunday.
All expenses are being paid
through the kindness of a hockey promoter at Grand Falls.

- Rowlie Frazee will be the only

ELIMINATE ACADIA

YOUNG TIGERS HOT AS ACADIA WILTS |
UNDER DAL SHOOTING, PASSING ATTACK

The overwhelming triumph advanced the Tigers to the Nova

bad this season, were at their very best last Saturday afternoon
as they defeated the Acadia Juniors, 62 to 30, at the Dal gym.
gym. The overwhelming triumph advanced the Tigers to the Nova
Scotia Junior finals, the Gold and Black winning the two-game,
total point series with the Axemen, 93-54. The winners next meet
the New Waterford Juniors in another two—game, total point series
for the Provincial title. The games are to be played in the Dal gym

Friday and Saturday.

In the Acadia game, the Tigers
scored almost at will, and the
cutecome of the game was not in
doubt after the first five minutes
of play. In contrast to the first
game of the series at Wolfville,
this was a wide open contest
played at a very fast pace. The

were far from the equal of the
Tigers, whe were often brilliant
as they passed sharply, set up
their plays well, and controlled
the backboards. It was a most
encouraging performance from
the team which has hopes for a
Dominion Junior championship.

Jimmie Mahon with 18 points

       
    
 
   
     
         
       
       
 
       
    
         
   
      
     
     
 

largely from Windy that the ;
year’s great revival in Dalhousie team regular not making the
spirit came. journey, and coach Jimmy Gray
The D.A.A.C. of 1947-48 has laid a strong foundation for con- has expressed his intention to
timuing greatness in Dalhousie teams, and the best reward that take part in the exhibition conWindy and his men could have would be for continuing and increas- tests, The expedition should
ing support for athletics at Dalhousie by students and the University Prove of great publicity value to
in years to come. the University.

Physical Director John Mac
Cormack arranged the journey
through contacts made by him
while he was in charge of the
Canadian Navy’s Physical Training department in Newfoundland
during the war.

      
 
   
   
    
     
       
    
      
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

  

fe  -(Gander, Thurs. March
17 via DTP). The Dalhousie
Tigers tonight defeated the
Gander “All-Stars” 21-7.

DAAC BANQUET
TO BE HELD
APRIL 3, 1948

 

lehat’s the best way
to take out insurance

Lay, YOU YOURSELF have gained a
thorough training in this highly
specialized field then the best way to take
Out insurance is to consult someone with
experience — your Mutual Life of Canada
representative.

Take him into your confidence. To begin
building for you a life insurance program
that will assure you maximum security and
happiness, he must know your circumstances
and understand your problems. Your present
and prospective responsibilities and desires
as well as your income must be considered
before he can advise on the policy or policycombinations best fitted to them. He will
also wish to be kept informed of any changing circumstances which might alter your
insurance needs,

Your Mutual Life agent’s help and advice
are available at all times, without obligation.
Consult him now. Ask why Mutual Life of
Canada insurance is Jow-cos¢ life insurance.

THE

  

MUTUAL DE

(HEAD OFFICE WATERLOO, ONTARIO

 

Tigers, who had been hindered and Syl Gossac with 17 markers
from functioning at top form on paced the Dal attack. Andy Macthe small floor of the Axemen, Kay and Mason MacDonald also
were completely at home on the showed well for the winners, buv
big Dal court, and. easily and the whole team performed as a
quickly turned the game into a steady, .smooth-working agegrerout, gration. Bob Hart was the standAfter opening very fast, the out operatoy for Acadia, scoring
victors continued to roll and built 16 of his team’s points.
up a 34-to-10 halftime lead. The The line-ups: DAL — Mahon
second half saw the Dal players 18, Gossac 17, MacDonald 6,
continue to pile up the score with MacKay 6, Beckett 5, Rosenfeld
only an occasional reply from 5, Palnick 3, Marshall 2, Shaw,
the losers. The Axemen were com- Tanner. ACADIA — ° Hart 16,
pletely outplayed, and although Swansburg 8, Wickwire 4, Mosher
they tried hard all the way, they 1, Millard 1, Bowlby, Rafuse,

Acadia Drubs Dalhousie 12-5
To Meet St. F.X. For N.S. Title

The weary Dalhousie Tigers went through the motions of playing a hockey game at Wolfville Monday night, and the Acadia
Axemen twisted: the Dal athletes in knots with a 12-5 win. The
game was not in doubt after the first ten minutes as Acadia had
taken a 5-1 lead at he half way mark of the period. The Axemen
passing was too sharp, and their back-skating too thorough to permit the eliminated Tigers ever to get steam up. They were a shadow
of the team which had defeated St. Dunstan’s earlier in the season.

 

Acadia, with MacKelvie doing 2. ACADIA — MacKelvie
the sniping, shot into a 2-0 lead 3.. DALHOUSIE — MacMillan
in the first minute of play, and (LeBlanc
after Dalhousie got one back, the 4: ACADIA — MacFarlane
fleet Wolfville team poured in (Smith)
three more goals to wind up the 5. ACADIA — Bagnall (Roach)
scoring for the first canto. 6. ACADIA — MacVicar (Mora : ‘iss MacKelvie)
y LeBlanc and Rosie Mac- Peet
Ser irae ere penalties — Mont (major),

Millan put the Tigers within two
goals of the Axemen early in the
second period, but that was the

(major), Bateman
shots—by Dal 15, by Acadia

best Dal could do. Acadia got a a Perjod:

them back and the game was a _ ipa we ,

Wee 7. DALHOUSIE — LeBlanc
\ (Knickle)

The third period saw Acadia g palHOUSIE — MacMillan
rub salt into the Dalhousi¢é 9 AGADIA—MacKenzie (Morwounds and rap in four more risson)

goals, the only reply to which 149 sACADIA — MacVicar (Morwas a marker sunk by Paul Lee.

risson)
Acadia outplayed Dal by a greater 11. DALHOUSIE — Knickle
margin in this period than in any (Frazee, LeBlanc)
ether, outshooting them 15-7. 12. ACADIA — Smith (Crowell)

Outstanding for Acadia were penalties — Walker
MacVicar and MacMilan still shots—by Dal 10, by Acadia
stood erect among the shambles, 12
and together with Kingie Mont Third Period;
and Rowlie Frazee played well 13, ACADIA — Roach (MacKelfor the Tigers. The forwards had vie, Leightizer)
no system, and at one time goal- 14. DALHOUSIE—Lee (Knickle)
er Bliss Leslie carried the puck 15. ACADIA — MacVicar (Morout to the blue line, toying with risson)
the idea of doing better as a 76. ACADIA — Bagnall (Roach,

 

forward. Except that Kingie MacKelvie)
Mont got into two fights, the 17. ACADIA — Walker (Baggame produced little else of in- nall)
terest. penalties -——- Mont (minor
SUMMARY and major), Roach (major),
First Period; Bateman
1. ACADIA — MacKelvie (Bag- shots — by Dal. 7, by Acadia
nall) 15
NOTICE

Applications for the managerships of Tennis, Swimming, Soccor,

Track & Field, Boxing, Badminton, Hockey, English Rugby, and

Basketball are now being received by the D.A.A.C. Assistant managers for English Rugby, Hockey and Basketball are also being
sought for, as well as interfaculty managers for Rugby, Hockey, and
Basketball. All these are for the semester of 1948-49 of course.
Send all applications to the Sect, Treasurer of the D.A.A.C. Larry
Levine 203g Vernon St. or to the Physical Director.

 
fal . .—* My “ - : A j i
+ t s 4 sf ; a 7a
Ff " we ~ | ae } {
oo s By . ‘ :
a oe :

7 h ; i
A : <a 5
\ [re
f AF
4 oti

i ‘

i

AM
AG
a
r ‘
a ap at

P j

~

in

Ee]

>

= >. ty
. ii ade , “ F rs
tal a “I "aA ;
ke a 10s wea
ia ar) &
' % : 1 i sd
vi A ¥ ra ‘ ‘4 ey
4 4 A 0 e
p , ™ mI Fi
iz >
- i 5

_In,Which We A

7
”

mate

was

‘that Sodales went

CHAPTER XX

re Properly Told Off. . .

They were sitting in front of the fire imbibing,
Unicorn was the first to break the golden silence.
~~ “Bad year, Ed.”

“Not too bad.” The Ed was quite complacent about

|

Good Dal student, the Ed.
_ “What d’you mean, not too bad. Rotten, sir, that’s
what it was! Rotten!’ He took a deep, indignant swig.

“Well, it was better than last year, and last year

the Glum Club?”
“That's college spirit,” said the Ed slowly..

4

as better than the year before...”
__ “Rubbish! Look at this D business! Do you know
on record as wanting as many Ds as.

“Which has been ordained a Good Thing,” the

interrupted with heavy sarcasm. “There’s no

- enthusiasm; why haven’t we?”

4

___ The Ed turned round, and filled his glass. He

spoke slowly, being a bit tired. “Acadia has a rink, six.
They have a fair field. They have an auditorium. These

_ things make a difference.”

7 4 q ; : 5 . ~
| a os Wary can’t-we get them?”

4
ps

7


la pl . “Oh;-people talk,-sir, but noth
sc’ owas the. chairman and so was
I. “But the debaters had gone

me ees dng-ever-gets~done-around “here.~-somewhere for the weekend, or

_ It's one of the great things about
tthe place. Of course, this is a
_ University. You can’t learn any_ thing worthwhile at any of these

- ¢they places.”

“But there must be as much

Money here as there is in WolfVille or these other places.”

The Editor didn’t answer; it
hadn’t been a bad year. Two or
three championships; the junior
basketball team looked good. AnyWay, degrees would still be given
out in the spring. The place
Wouldn’t fall apart yet. Although
he had to admit that things were
pretty slack. A minute late, the
Unicorn spoke up again.

“And tell me why, young man,
a University like Dalhousie was
represented at a national confer
ence of physical directors by a

man from a little place somewhere in N. B.? Why didn’t our
man go? Why didn’t the Gazette
way something about it ”

“Beyond me, sir. Not my line,
sports, you know.”

“What about this plebiscite?
Do the students here, in the face

of maxims to the contrary which
have yet to be disproved, still
think that they can get some
thing for nothing?”

_ “Don’t know, sir. Can’t answer
for all of them.”

“Next year,” said the Unicorn,
“we must have an austerity year.
Pay for games, council dances,
everything. Not a goddam thing
free. Make em pay for the Gazette; not that they’ll buy it, but
in No free skating on Monday
night. Paid admissi
Glum n Club. They'll lean? ee
“Tell the Council, not me.”

vee remember once going to a

debate. The judges were ther;

taken a night off. Once I went
into the Gym, a few nights before the show. Velcoff and two
others were building a stage —
nobody helping, everybody just
wants to enjoy themselves.”

“Yes there are a few lazy people around,” said the Ed, but they
aren’t all.”’

“All but half a dozen.’”’ Look
at the elections. Farce! Where else

would that happen but here?”
“Still,” said th Editor, a good
Dal man to the last, “it hasn’t
been a bad year. Things could be
worse. We mustn’t get discour
aged.”

The Unicorn growled something
about platitudinous fools and
strode off towards the keg. The
Editoy sat back, and contemplated the fire. He was quite comfortable; all was serene. The
Gazette was four days late, but
why worry? Good place, Dal. He
thought.

DAL TAKES LEAD

The Dal Grads defeated Acadia
44-39 at the Dal Gym Thursday
to take the lead in the two game
total point series with the Axemen in the Nova Scotia Intermediate quarter finals.

EEE
ATTENTION, ALL STUDENTS

For solid comfort, long wear
and: attractive styles wear a
DEXTER shoe. Each pair of
DEXTER shoes earries an unqualified guarantee of quality
and proper fitting.

Grant Worthylake,

32 Seymour St.

Phone 2-3683
Representative for
Dexter Shoe Company

D.K.S.V.A.

Aveording to the President and
others members of the executive
ef D.K.S.V.A., the need for that
organization’s existence has come
to an end. Although quite a few
of the vets, expect to graduate
this year, it must be remembered
that veterans will make up nearly
cne half of the student body next
year. According to official estimates there will be at least three
hundred vets at Dalhousie in
1951-52. With these facts in mind,
it appears that any move to abolih D.K.S.V.A. would be prematmre, to say the least. In the past,

our association has acted as a
liason between the student vets
and D.V.A. A few may feel that
this function is adequately performed by the D.V.A. Counsellor’s Office. With due respect to
Professor Benett and his staff
I think this function could be
better performed if done in conjunction with the veterans’ organ.
ization. Although the active
functions of the association are
in general assumed by the university, the possibility of an emergency requires that the machinery for Student Veteran action
remain in existence. In any case,

A ttt,

——

ee

Toho
> wei
ry

*
pe
——— + 2
as ; sis x oe
M oe a

HALIFAX N.S.
COCA COLA LTD.

7

peels Friday, Match 10, 1948
PLL TAKE SCHOLARS

In the short time during which I have had the good fortune to
have been associated with universities, I have acquired a recurring
nousea. It is occasioned by the attitude of those students who, feeling (and rightly) that they are at universities to be taught, complain
of poor treatment when they find that they are not being taught

as they are aceustomed to be taught. I would like to suggest that
university students are (supposedly) at universities to learn, not,

primarily, te be taught. There is a vast difference.

An editorial from a contemporary college weekly, entitled
“Teachers or Scholars’, was reprinted in the Gazette of March
5. It was, to me, the epitome of
all that we should be striving to
remove from our universities. If
many students at our universities
agree with the editor of ghe Mt.
Allison ARGOSY WEEKLY, I
want no part of the title “student”, or of any other title that
connotes an ambition and attitude
such as he professes in his editorial. It is indeed unfortunate that
the editor was privileged to use
“we” when, I hope and believe,
“T” (or perhaps “i” in this case?)
would have been so much closer
to the truth.

Surely we have been taught

- enough—the way this author obv
iously wants to be taught. If we
haven’t I stggest that the place
for us is school, not university.
What is necessary now, I think,
is learning, to be acquired in
universities by students who
have been taught in schools. I
shall not attempt to argue that
university professors should not
teach; I believe that they do. I
do not admit, however, that the
kind of teaching implied by “a
bit of teaching psychology and
instructional technique” has any
place in our universities.

I know from experience that
students can learn from scholastically qualified individuals, aniversity professors or not, withcut those individuals having to
learn their “bit of teaching psychology and instructional technique’. I might add that, considering the truth of the quasi-proverb that a little learning is more
dangerous than none at all, I can
see nothing but ill effects coming from “a bit of teaching psychology and instructional ‘technique”. But, to continue; the assumption, implicit in the editorial with which we are concerned,

the fate of the organization
should be decided upon by a
meeting of its members, rather
than by the present executive.

—

that professors are with us for
the purpose of discovering and
applying easier and more efficient methods of inserting “edueation” into the student mind
argues, I think, for something
less than a mature point of view,
Oy at least a misconception of
the purpose of the university, on
the part of the author-editor.

I would be the last to argue
that professors should not be
good lecturers. But ability to
lecture may be acquired with
practice and, were it made a prerequisite to professorial appointment, could easily serve to obscure really serious shortcomings.
The professor who knows his field
does not need to learn “a bit of
teaching psychology and instructional technique’. In most cases,
it will come to him without his
seeking it. And if it does not”
To listen to a scholar speaking
on his chosen specialty is all that
is needed for ‘the students to
learn what “they woukin’t get
from 2 book by themselves’’.
Organization of lecture material
is helpful, and by far the greatest number of professors recognize this fact. But over-organization, such as is likely to come
from “a bit of teaching psycholegy and instructional technique”
would make university nothing
more than Grades XIII, XIV, XV
—and there’s too much of that
im ur wniversities already. In
fact, there’s too much of Grades
f to X in our universities, too,
ut that is for another discussion.
The Mt. Allison editor would
have our universities further scale
themselves down in order, he says,
to rise. It lacks logic.

In suggesting that students be
allowed—in fact, ‘nequfired—to
assess the ability of their professors, and that faculties be
built on the basis of those assessments, our Sack-villain is, [I
feel, grossly over-rating the capabilities of students, and equally
under-rating the intelligence of
university presidents and governors, members of faculties, and
prospective members of faculties.

(Continued on Page 8)

Refreshing with lunch

TRADE MARK RE

 
  

 

 

Be Ae ee 5

 

on, i coe of the King’s
council was held during the third
moon of the year of our Lord
8 365. Presiding in the absence of
| ‘the King was Friar Porkington:
present were such knights of the
round table as Sir Lack Mac (or
Mack), Sir Breezy O'Reilly (a
representative from Scotland,
bearing a proposal from the King
of Scotland to unite the Treasuries of the two countries), Sir
Firebox, Sir Earnest Spitoon,
Sir Jake Ronkin, Si, Jack
Raspberryaisle, and Sir Mack
Brewgall. The meeting was called
a to discuss further nefarious
events at Dullhousie Forest.
af “Gentlemen”, began Friar Pork_
* ington, “we have all heard of
’ the quaint local customs of the
inhabitants of Dullhousig Forest.
Nay, we have more than heard
of them—we have had to tolerate them for uncountable years.
But we have allowed them to conPes tinue in their ignorant ways. Now
we must take action. For these
ignorant people have initiated an
entirely new custom to their Forot est—something which they call
aa > Munro Day. It is a day on which
| ‘they purport to commemotate the
io life of the King’s worthy Treasurer of fifty years ago.
“What is wrong with that?”
interrupted Sir Raspberryaisle.
“Nothing, of itself,” answered
- Porkington condescendingly, “But
. they have made of thi s‘Munro
" Day’ a day on which all manner
of weird celebrations take place,
* mot unmixed with many grave
malpractices.”

“Don’t believe it.’ quoth Sir
Mack Brewgall.

“But we have definite proof
ef this, Mack Brewgall.” replied
the Friar with a leer. “You see,
I took it upon myself to send to
Dullhousie a special investigator
of our vaunted organization, the
Gasnoop, to find the truth of the
situation. Allow me to introduce
our researcher to you. Gentlemen
—Sir Stickey Sowit.”

“Good evening, gentlemen,”
said Sir Sowit.

“Will you please relate to us
the story of your findings at Dull
> housie, Stickey?” asked Friar
Al Porkington.

| “Certainly,” answered Sir So: wit. “First, gentlemen, I shall tell
\y you how I was enabled to penei? trate into Dullhousie Forest un; noticed, to give you an inkling
of affairs there during a Munro
Day. Through the resources” of
the Gasnoop, I obtained the disguise of a fifty-gallon barrel, of
mead, called brew by’ the Dullva housians. As this barrel, I slipped
‘slyly into the Forest, and deposi ited myself unoticed beside the
many other such bartels.”
“What incidents happened then
rh, ‘J may best relate to you bit by
| ‘bit, as I saw them while moving

  

  

 

Hovel, in the basement of which,
; -disguised as a piece of dirty
Py ‘paper on the floor, is the disih ‘trict Gasnoop headquarters. In
. this Hovel were a group of the
iP behind-the-scenes Dullhousie pol
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

Le iticians, imbibing heavily of some

| monstrosity called ginger ale, I
| believe.
if “Overpowered by the smell of —
a this filthy liquid in the Hearts

Reticence Shack. Opening the
door and rolling in, I was greeted by a steady gurgle and an ocSt gasional clink, as of tea-cups. As
on as ‘the occupants saw me in

Ge ae omy eae they snatched at me

Ss 5% its.

: ot eee ee wii ;
Be STS RT |:
e of " a) a Ld ra ‘ i J \ m

Clint, 2

|
) -from shack to shack in the Forest.

 Hovel, I moved away to the Men’s

isfactory progress...

 

- MoRTE DE MUNRO

 

saivaigely, making a great noise.
This being the Men’s Reticence
Shack, however, only gurgles and
clinkg were allowed to be heard,
so that the Dullhousians arguing
over mg were expelled from the
shack, and me among them.”

“With these .....
’ “Pardon me,” interrupted Sir
O’Reilly (of Scotland). “When
did you say these Munro days are
held, Sir Sowit?”

“JT didn’t,” replied Stickey,
“But they are held once a moon,

'I believe. There is one there to
morrow, in point of fact.”
“Thank you,” said O’Reilly,

cdging slowly toward the door

and almost colliding with Sir
Mack Brewgall. “Thank you very
much, Stickey.”
“You’re welcome,” Sir Sowit
(Continued on page 8)

SOUND
TRACK...

... (With all due apologies to another paper called the Gazette
we he#ewith inaugurate a new
column to appear in each issue
of next year’s Gazette subjuct

 

 

to the approval of the editors.)

ON THE CAMPUS: D.A.A.C.
happily looking at an offer from
“Newfie” to play a-series of
three hockey games. Talk has it
that an unknown bigwig has put
up a guarantee that is very sizeable. More credit is dug to the
varsity hockey team than it is
getting... Rumors flying that the
Gazette will become a bi-weekly
paper next year. Should provide
a lot more of interest than has
been possible this year. Incidentally, interested parties have been
investigating a possible change of
firm to take care of the Gazette.
Might be an improvement... Munro day appears to have lost ali
the former spirit. Even at that
police seemed very busy holding
people in hand. Next year:- dull?

MOSTLY ABOUT PEOPLE:
Lew (Gazette) Miller soon to
tie the knot, and will probably
be joined by many others during the summer months ...D.A.
A.C.’s Joe Levison reportedly
mulling over offers from CJCH
to do inter-period commentaries
from the Forum in the coming
year.. Jack (Boud) Boudreau deserves praise for smooth running
of Munro Day although not as
much can be said for the show..
Dalthousians little worried about
exam time as mass migrations to
Acadia seem to show. Dal gals
doomed to obscurity in the crowls
of Acadia co-eds to arrive here
next year... Hockey team reported to have enjoyed their trip to
Acadia and will probobly have
as much fun on the way to Newfoundland... John (Dear Ruth)
Pauley rushed to the hospital
with emergency case of appendicitis.. Hall girls getting warned
about the bad habit of using the
convenient alcoves... Boys also
please take note... Joan Myrden
taking in an ample supply of
visitors while in hospital... Editor
Milley apparently has put in bid

to manage next years football

team.. Frequented shrines announce that with exams approach.
ing the business is falling off
Ron (Pharos) Coldwell reports
that the Yearbook is showing satout before
re, exams We hope...

7 li Y ATIORI RAG

7

“MY PEOPLE, THE CHILDREN OF
Based On Fred M. Hechinger’s Article in

ISRAEL,

The New York Herald Tribune

 

One of the most hideous examples of the
destitution arising from the aftermath of a long
and terrible war is the D.P. camps where daily,
men, women, and children arg forced to live
under conditiong which are unfit even for cattle.
These people living in dilapidated military barracks which mock the fine architectual structures of our cities, are virtually prisoners of
post-war conditions. By legal right they are free,
democratically free. Freg also to beg with ironic
humility for work in the land of their enemy,
freg to help the Germans rebuild their cities,
still stained with the blood of these same people.
These “prisoners” are not locked in from the
rest of the world; but locked out by those people
who brought them the victory—locked out by the
selfish, indifferent, scornful people of the western world.

The inmates of these D.P. camps have not
given up the hope of finding a place in society
where they may be treated as human beings, not
as cattle. The former Physics professor learns
mechanics because it is more useful. The former
farmer learns watch-making because it is more
useful. These people have not lost faith in their
ambitions, in their hopes. What they do not realize is that though he may be ready to start life
anew, the unsympatheic world is unwilling to
grant them a new life.

The squalor of the camps is incredible. In a

room built for two Nazi soldiers eight people ©

 

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
“The purest form in which tebacce can be smoked ~

ie ae 2

 

® Now there's a pretty picture *
®Mmm ...a perfect Sweet Cap sifhovette.™ — -. ene

“live”. Living in such rooms as this, where there
is little or no sanitation, cooking facilities, privacy, or sleeping accomodations means that children are men and women before they are ever
children—there is no age of innocence. Yet these
homelss people endure this squalor because they
trust in the promise of futare happiness, futur
of freedom and property, have refused to turm
to Communism for aid and protection.

Persecution, insult to injury, is quickly undermining the hope and moral of these people. Fraulein propagandists and a few drinks have often
incited American soldiers to assult and violence.
What chances have these D.Pls, scapegoats of
German Nationalism, to defend their miserable

‘status. In such cases the D.P.’s have developed

persecution complexes. Only the wordly wise are
able to recall the good deeds of the Yanks whe
freed them from German bondage and philosophize, their philosophy being only too ironic.

If the account of these D.P. camps arouses
no feelings of compassion, no resolutions, ne
shame then surely none can ignore the earnest
hope of the little boy who repeats the quotation
inscribed over the entrance to the Statue of Liberty—

“Give me your tired, your poor,

Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,
The wretched refuse of your teeming shore’
Send these, the homeless, tempest-lost to me,
I lift my lamp beside the golden door!’’

 

Pra .

 

  
 
 

   
  
  

"LEGENDS large hovel which they called, I
page q)y” do believe, the Dym Galnausium.
ala? Paine back . +6 dae In here I found all manner of
ie steingito Oe _ Dullhousians, of both sexes, for
Parking. fa bute’ a here was the center of the day’s
out of the Men's Reticence Shack, celebrations.
I was carried with these Dull- “As I looked around tha Galhousians eer to an pene ernaeelty, nausium I saw at one end a rais
HOME GAMES

(Continued from page 2)
But this should only be a last ditch stand. We need
a rink and we need a good field, both of which are a
sound investment as well as necessities. If the University cannot contribute towards the cost of a rink, then
the Alumni or the council should attempt to raise the
necessary funds and build the rink. If not, athletics here
will continue in the same way as they have for some
‘time now; potentially good teams will be handicapped
by the setback of encountering hostility in the very place
where they should have the most support. The Council
might look around immediately. The Forum is both inconvenient and inadequate, so far as the purposes of the
teams and the student spectators go. It is a matter for
the Council; leaving the initiative to any other agency

will do no good at all.

 

Dal Students —

GAO) MONT

ioe etal ak ea

A welcome awaits you at

| eSumneys Linled

456 Barrington Street,

“DANCING
SATURDAY
NIGHT”

 

alate FAX

“Don Warner
-Orchestra”’

9 p.m. to midnight
$3.00 per couple

Where you will find A
complete Music Service

and the finest
Sports Equipment.

 

 

 

CAMERA SHOP

of the Maritimes Ltd,

407-409 Barrington St.
26 BLOWERS ST. — 3-8524 |

A Complete
PHOTOGRAPHIC Pan eel) Were ns

SERVICE... THE
@ SUPPLIES
@ EQUIPMMENT GREEN LANTERN |
@ REPAIRS |
@ ASSISTANCE | RESTAURANT

a ‘The sign of a good meal’

}

 

 

 

 

DANCE PROGRAMS

CASINO

Our new line of dance pro
 

       
   
   
   
   
   
 

Starting Sat. 20th grams is smart and different.

Committees will find new

RIDE THE PINK HORSE J] nut not expensive.

With

Le pie SE

HENRY BIRKS & SONS

MITED
ROBERT MONTGOMERY Li

& American Gem Society

Registered Jeweller,

WANDA HENDRIX Halifax, N. S.

 

 

—

—————y

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

 

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in peace:

“Say Schwartz and be Sure’. We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
der and Dried Fruit.

W H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice Bbuse
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

t * * £ “hy ¢ . < oe’ 2 ‘ ld ; }
“fol eS i et ee a ot ih Cy Pe ee L a} SPe tee : ‘ » i

“i oe te 5 é fr " >) ”
ei ey : : OPTS) ree mle

, ~——
Sen oe

_ THE, DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ed platform, and the very proof
of something f which we have
all heard already. For on this

platform was a member of the
Dullhousie Societie for Glum
Shows, giving away the King’s
gold and ‘silver spurs. In one
turn of the sandgiass I saw every
actor in Dullhousie Forest rush
forward to receive two gold and
one silver spur. The rest of the
assemled Dulthousians began to
protest against this favouritism
toward their actors, but the infividual passing them out explained smimply that he had
planty more of the spurs at home,
and would not overlook everybody else on the next Munro Day.

‘When the Dullhousians had
cleared this character off the
platform, then began a most dis
   

gusting exhibition of the abilit,
of Dullhousie actors. They did
not even act, forsooth. Standing
tipsily on the platform, they attempted to imitate such Roman
actors as the Sorors Andrii, and
even with the aid of an actor

from the Via Broad who played
a certain magistrate, they complately forgdt their immortal
tines.

“With this display, gentlemen,
the Dullhousians completed their
so-called Munro Day, and went
home to further barrels of mead,
cr brew.”

*A most terrible exhibition’’,
commented the Frair, horrified.

“I agree,’’ shouted Sir Raspberryaisle. “These acts are most
despicable. We suau uave to stop
such action.”

 

THE MARITIME LIFE

 

extends
BEST WISHES

IN

your future undertakings.

Any further Association with you will
be our pleasure. We shall ever be proud
of these two Maritime Institutions.........

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
THE MARITIME LIFE ASSURANCE CO.

A. R. FRASER, C. L. U.

BOB HART

Manager Nova Scotia Branch
Green Lantern Building, Halifax,
Telephone

N. S.
53-8745

 

Friday, March 19, 1948

“Fine, 'gentleemn. We shall do
that,’ said the Friar. “But we
must now adjourn for refreshment.”

“The meeting quickly dissolved in refreshments, leaving Sir
Jake Ronkin, a member of the
Intemperance Union, sitting at
the Council table contemplating
the time he had associated with
Sir Munro; thinking of the honourable Treasurer, a native of
Dullhousie, whose memory the
Tullhousians were now supposed
to be celebrating.

THE GALLOP POLL

(Continued from page 38)
Marjorie Lennard Award, shared
this opinion. She believed that
the Gazette should be more free
to choose its material. She also
thought that it paid too much
attention to political subjects, and
that a great many of its so-called
literary articles were deserving of
no such name.

I'LL TAKE SCHOLARS

(Continued from page 6)

 

The proposition requires that students evaluate and pass judgement on professors. It is precisely
that ability—the ability to know,
ito evaluate—that we are supposedly attending university to
acquire. Would the ARGOSY
editor have anyong exercise an
ability that they do not possess?
Let us adhere to the realm of
the reasonable.

 

ON ANY COURT - /N ANY SPORT 
SCIENTIFIC LAST
Permits feet to function as
nature intended.

 

SLANT-CUT TOPS
Streamlined for flexibility
and snug fit.

   

CUSHION INSOLES
Absorb shocks, lessen foot
fatigue.

   

BREATHABLE UPPERS
Permit’ air to - circulate
freely through shoes.

   

_ MON-CHAFING TOE
Elimi nales seams that cause
friction and discomfort,

 

TESTED COMPOUNDS
First in the laboratory, then
under actual wearing conditions.

DOMINION RUBBER &

provide maximum comfort and support,
and to stand up under the most strenuous
playing conditions. High cut and oxford

styles in men’s sizes, oxfords in women’s

 

Dow at the features that make Fleet Foot the (3
, Cg.

finest shoes you can buy for sports. Here’s Cr ict

the “Gym” — scientifically designed to AS gba

sizes. Remember to ask for Fleet Foot, the

Shoe of Champions, at your shoe dealetr’s.

built to give
wear,

a ee ee ee ae

Doinron

» RUBBER ON

 

BALANCED CONSTRUCTION
Upper and sole are correctly
“balanced”’

 

NON-MARKING SOLES
Special light coloured soles
won't mark polished floors.

ee Wh Me

 

 
