 

Qa eee eee

>

 

|

 


  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
     

_Art Mears

. Record Crowd
Sees Navy

~Out-Pass Dal

 

. Dalthousie’s football Tigers
reached the end of their unbeater streak at Wanderers grounds
Wednesday afternoon when a
well-drilled, smooth-working combination of Sailors pulled a 13—5
victory out of the fire.

The Dalhousie team, playing 
without the services of Pete Fer
Blair Dunlop, and Bill Pearson, fought hard, but it was a
losing battle, due mogtly to the
lack-lustre displays put on by
members of the team in recent
practice sessions, according to
one member of the D.-A. A. C.

As a result of the loss, the
Tigrs will play St. Mary’s in a
semi-final sudden death playoff.

game sometime in the near fut
ure, Coach Burkhart promises
promises some stiff workouts in
future practices. Don “Woodie”
Woodward suffered a _ concussion in the last quarter of the
game, and is in the local hospital.

COLLEGE
ON AIR —

 

 

On Monday night Art Mears,
Chairman of the Dal Publicity
Committee announced that in

future there would be a Dalhousie “

program on station CJCH, every
Monday night. The program will
start on Monday, November 3rd.
and will be from 7.15 to 7.30 p.m.
It will be entirely’ a Dal program,
containing a commentary on
events pertainin? to the University over the past week in Sports,
Glee Club activities and other
Dalhousie affairs. The program
will also contain a forecast of

the next week’s ‘events.

This is the first program of
its kind in the Maritimes that the
‘Committee is aware of, and it
is to be hoped that it will become
a regular institution here. Any
organization which either has
held or plans to hold any event
which will be of general intercsz
to Dal students should contact
(phone 38-2998).
_they wish to have it broadcast.

‘ | Later on, more student assistance

will probably be needed in runDing this Progiam, which. should:

>

eee ae Teale ae oe) aces eo ' a ene pmenten

 

A BUNCH OF THE BOYS (AND GALS) WERE WHOOPING IT UP

 

CANADIAN
PRESS
HITS DAL

In a slanted Canadian Press
news account printed in local
papers on Thursday, October 30,
it was stated that no permission
was grhnted for leaflets to be
drepped over the city to advertise the Canadian Football game
to be played between Dalhousie
and Navy, Mayor J. E. Ahern is
quoted as saying; “‘The. sons of
guns. They didn’t get permission
from us and it will cost considerable to clean up the mess.”

“I phoned the mayor’s office
. said
one of the

for . permission,” . Bruce

Lockwood,

publicity organizers,

student
“and I was
told to phone the police departnient.”” The Police Department
raised no objection to the dropping of Teaflets, and if the May
or had not heard about it it was

definitely due to the fact that

he was not informed by his office.” “We regret,”” added Mr.
Lockwood, “

that there was a misunderstanding.”’

eee Oe He BO ee

Student observers who were in
the central part of the city at
the time of the raid have stated
that’ the leaflets were picked cr
by citizens as fast as they were

dropped, thus any expense to the ;

city would be~ negligible. Al
Lomas and Robin MacLean, two
Dal students, on driving from
Afrieville to the railway station
saw only six leaflets on the street

halt an hour ‘after the raid. “I

Poor Old Acadia — —

 

Annual Frosh Show Scores
Great Hit As Crowds Cheer

BY HARDROK STONE

The

Annual Dalhousie Frosh
suffering student oudience at the Gym FFriday night,

show was inflicte! on a long
and with

the usual monotony dragged through it long, drtary course of piano

solos, vocal efforts and amateurish
Ukie Velcoff was the manager

entation and it can be said that §

eral tone of the show. It was,

to be truthful,

s its.
and m:n-in-cher-e of the pres$ “Orn vas re.le..ed in the gen
a better performance

than has been presented in past years, even if the short play was

written at the last moment.

 

felt,”’ said Robin MacLean, “that
most of the leaflets must have
been blown into the harbour, —
One would have thought that

there had been no raid at aill.’’..

So far as the painting of various objects in the recent splurge
of spirit, the Dal supporters used
the discretion of using waterpaints that could be washed off
quite easily. The scoreboard at
Wanderer’s Grounds, for example, was washed off by two men
in approximately twenty minutes.

The Canadian Plress ended
their story with the following:
“Then they walloped the daylights oyt of Dalhousie.”” The
Navy undeniably had the superior team in the contest, but until
about before the
game ended the score was only 7
to 5 in,favor of Navy. Just one
touchdown and a convert in the
closing minutts of play made the
difference, — and 13 to 5, a close
game in Canadian football, hardly
calls for the phrase, “—walloped

the daylights.”

one minute

skit,
opera radio broad icast,
high spot of the performance.
The four “Hams,’? Bruce Loeckwood, Bob Ward, Bud Kingsbury
and Bill Wren were excellent as

The soap
the

a parody on a

was

hams, They were just as
“hammy” as, one. could expect
amateurs to be — and that’s

quite “hammy.”’

Phil Hebb, following a long
line of predecessors, played a
piano solo, as did Natalie Rideout,
the pride of Grand Falls, N. B.—
it must be a small town.
the
show has always had
songstress, and this
no exception to the
The spectacle of Caroline
Logan gasping and choking on
hr first

For the past 50 years,
Fieshmen
a female
year was
rule,

cigarette as she sang
“Embraceable You” was one of

the most hilarious of the evening.
Something was lacking, however
She has to learn to smoke or to
sing, and which she could do is
a hard question to answer.
Although there were laughs i»:
the show, they were mostly ut,
(Continued on Page 5)

Paint Stands :
At Raymond
Field Friday

Raymond Field, home of the
Acadia Axemen was given a facelifting Friday night by.some person Or persons unknown when
the centre of the grandstand was
puinted yellow and a broad. Dalheusie lettered across the surface
in black. Goalposts were painted
barber-pole fashion in yellow and
black, and the side of the cement
stands bore a monstrous Dy A. L.

Incidentally, it is of more than
passing interest to note that the:
Bengals “won the game 8—0 on
a try Bill Robertsen.
shortly after the opening whistle..
It marked the first time in many
years that Acadia has been’ beaten on her home field. _

More than 400: students madethe trip from Halifax by special
busses and by cars to help cheer
thein favorites to victory. The
brass band, led by Geoff Payza it.
marched around the field before
the game led by the Dal Tiger—
an ancient Ford with stripes
painted on its sides carrying a
Dalhousie banner

scored by

over its top
aid sundry notices on its fenders.
At game time

the sun was

. Shining brightly and there was a

stiff cross-wind blowing from the

}* = ;
direction Ox

the grandstand.
fionuia Ce ...ng through the'c
p when the firs§

«~t of the dresing.

} 3 atte: \y as.
é One age ah ren Y
iné€ Danamaster raised his bat--on and more than 400 throa’s
broke into the school’s anthem,
“Glory, Glory for Dalhousie.”

A brief run down the field
to flex muscles, a few punts baci
und forth among the players, and
then all present.came to attention
as the Dal band -played “O Canada.’? As the last strains died.
on the wind, referee Wally Barteaux’s whistle cut the air to.
start the game.

As more than 1,500 fans jostled:
exch other in ever increasing ex-citement and the game went into
its dying minutes; the Hatchet
men put on their famed last
quarter drive. They backed the
Tigers inside their own 10-yard

line and pummelled and slashed

at the defenders in an attempt,
to bring victory out of defeat in:
the last few minutes. Then it was
— with the Tigers threatening’
to come apart at the seams —
that the band and the cheerleaders came into their own

The Dal contingent cheered
and played itself hoarse as it

(Continued on Page 4)
   

3

i
{
ie F
hy VE
ies
rf le
q.
.
tee e
bia ‘¢

Bh] 7 LEW MILLER

mS Managing Editor Business Manager
BRUCE LOCKWooD AL RUBIN
Bo ey Sports F
es ORS eT. Mews eatures
Bie Fp ie LUSHER BOB: TUCK ART MOREIRA
Petaects co i oe KEN PHELPS KARL WEBBER
Bee oy cas POE EEN teen ‘CLAIR KNIGHT
-- . BILL LOVATT ;
Ren se cc C. U. P. Editor JOHN TRIM
a et py, Exchange Manager AL LOMAS Ass’t Business Mer.
[. PETER SEDERIS Circulation Manager SOBIN MacLEAN
Pei, tv ie. — :
Ns | m JAN THOMAS Co-ed Sports
Bs at Photographers D. SADOFSKY RENNIE FISHER
fae BARRY PATON Proof Readers c 4 Edito
el Bn SOBERMAN SOMERS PRIKLER Zone Ge ENe

ERIC RICHTER DON DIXON - :
| CONTRIBUTORS AND REPORTERS THIS WEEK
7 JERRY JOHNSON MARJ GOLDBERG
| Vol. 79 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1947 . No. 4
ai .

J
Fal

ie

he,
+

©


j
‘

/

te s
i
at 4

 

  

= _CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
2 = eo Editor-in-Chief

?

 

 

 

FREEDOM OF SPEECH

Late last term a great’ flurry was caused on the
campus when one of the university student organizations
invited a member of the Labor Progressive Party (a legitimate party in Canada) to speak on Communism. The
particular organization felt that to understand the views
of a party it was preferable to hear a spokesman of that
party than to formulate judgements on accounts that
could be prejudiced. For this the students concerned
are to be highly commended.

Shortly after this incident, a local union leader, a
socialist who was scheduled to speak to a group of medical students, was suddenly told that his address was
cancelled. He was given no justifiable reason for this
cancellation. Perhaps other matters bear directly on both
cases, but ostensibly the situation is not pleasing.

In a university, of all places, there should be absolute freedom of speech and-thought. Lack of wisdom
will be quickly discovered in any programme that is
brought to light. A programme, however, that is kepi
hidden by intolerance may well smoulder, attracting gull‘ible and unwise followers, until the sudden eruption of
flame is so great that it is extremely difficult to quench.
Furthermore, if a person is proud and firm in his political
tendencies he should be willing to stand up in their defence, and not merely support them by the negative po!icy of subduing others. This latter belief, it would appear,
is the backward policy of both the people who created
the flurry over the Communist hearing and those responsible for the cancellation of the union leader’s address.

If these backward individuals feel that the actions
of the neeple whom they wish restrained are evil it might
be well for them to ponder over the feelings of John
Milton when he wrote the following words: “‘---were
I the chooser, a dram of well doing should be preferred
before many times as much the forcible hindrance of
evil doing.”

 

—

 

AN OPEN LETTER TO _
PRESIDENT KERR

THE EDITOR ,
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
October 25, 1947

Dear Sir: |

In your welcoming address at the Alumni Smoker Thursday,

October 16, you described a university as “a fellowship of students
and teachers, interested in the discovery of new and old learning.”
you then went on te say that the expansion campaign was progressing
satisfactorily and that a new Art’s building could be started before
‘too long.

This letter is not to deny the need of a new Art’s. building in
the discovery of learning. However, I feet that Dalhousie University
is more in need of a new residence to promote the equally important
service of encouraging “a fellowship of students and teachers.”

There is a congestion for classrooms at the present time, but
this will have relaxed considerably within the next three years, Dalhousie will then be able to fit fairly comfortably into its pre-war
space.
Continued on Page 8

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

erie 8
BOOKWORM

by McSTOOP

I love books I make this statement without reservations of any
kind whatsoever. They are my
ruling passion. It is, therefore, a
source of great glee when I dis
‘cover that I will need them in

large quanities at Dalhousie. I[
“give the University the benefit of
all doubts; if the Professor says:
“Just look at these; they are all
in the Library,” I write to the
proud parent to send me enough
money to buy them all. This I
receive, and hasten with unholy
glee to obtdin my library. -~ »

Pasha Deadwood’s Emporikm..

I arrive’ at Pasha Deadwood’s
emporium, which is below the
Gymnasium. In that hallowed
place I expect, in exchange for
legal tender, many, many books.
But I find the door all jamed with
arms and legs and bodies, which
have no business there at all.
I am small and wiry. With great

endeavours I get inside the door,
and fall down a flight of steps
not noticed due to the bodies in
the way. I do not mind, because
I am so excited about all the
books. But there are still people
in the way; these I move aside
gently and make my way to the
counter What can they all be
doing there? when it is so inconvenient? Eh? .

At the counter there are many
people. I attract the attention of
a young lady who sells, and am
about to ask for books, when
some clod of a most enormous
cloddishness settles on my left
ear, bellowing for coffee and
sandwhich., This one I dislodge,
but his coffee, etc , arrive, and
he remains. I renew my order for
bocks. Alas, they are all sold
except for one English text and
two lab books, These I purchase
in silence. I open the text, and
admire it At this moment the
clod behind leans forward to say
something of no consequence to
someone of no consequence, and
a great lump of jam from his

sandwhich hits my text in the
middle. As I turn in protest,
coffee dribbles‘ down my chin

into my lab books. This surprises
me; I pause. I am drinking no
coffee! Then I see that it is another who is gesturing with his
coffee cup, whereby some coffee
is detached from the gesture to
my head, and so to the books. I
am crushed; I turn to go. I am

rudely buffeted hither and

thither, and I loose my ink bottle.

This falls and is broken,
upon a gross co-ed, of doubtful
ancestry and no virtue, accuses
me of throwing ink at her Her
boy friend is a football player,
who fells me to the ground...

wher
In class, the Préfessor of Enelish says: “@pen your books at
page three hundred and fifteen.”’
Doing so, I come acoss, not book,
but jam. Henceforth, I buy no
books, or I buy them second hand
or I spend thy father’s lawful
currency on sensible things like
beer.

 

NOTICE
Would the person who mistakenl; took the grey gabkardine
irem' “-€ coat rack in the men’s
residence at, supper time Satur
Gay, Oct 18, please return it to
the rack or contact Bob Latimer,
»04% Seymour Street.

3

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1947,

BEAT |
ST. MARY’S

 

 

 

 

  

MOST PIPE

 

oreo ee em

. £

NS iad

ni A
eo”

«
ae

as

ed

OS ickales 5s aia §

 

Attractively set up departments
featuring — ® BOOKS
® MUSIC |
® RECORDS
® PIANOS
@® ELECTRIC APPLIANCES |

Willis Piano Co. Limited
127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N. S. |

Sen,

 

Dalhousie University
Halifax. Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

 

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Edueation
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science Mining Geology

Pre-Professional Courses

 

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

in the b. Se. course about $210.00 a year

in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many vaiuable scholarships, on entrancé and through the courses

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held ig

February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Hon
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.

The Professional Faculties

Inclusive Fees

. * > s .
Law. Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall —-one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men
, in the University Men’s Residence? Other men students live in either

nw tf higtat inetingtian ~ im soleeted and approved homes
Special accommodation “is provided for married and Single ex-service

students,

Meats for all students are available at the University.
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR.

 

 

 
    
  
       

, warl

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

  

 

Mellow Music by the Maestro—
Don "Warner (right) ‘completed

with top hat and scholastic. gown,
hits a high note on his eloquent
trumpet. A long-time favorite
with Dalhousie students in the
school season, and a success wherever he played before summer
crowds in the holidays, Don.
Warner’s band has done much to
bring «Dalhousie’s name to the
nether regions of the province.
A‘ the Student’s Council dance
held last Friday night in conjunction with the Freshman show,
the Warner group scored a gre .t
hit with new students. The young
man with the horn will be featured in future per topmances in
the Gym.

 

 

Survey Reveals Opposition
To Grandstand Painting

After having viewed the newly
decorated Wanderers
ten out of sixteen students approached on the campus declared
that College enthusiasts were
carrying things a little too far.
“Boys will be boys” said Freshman Pete MacDonald, “but it’s
carrying college spirit much too
far.” Most of the students considered the vandals children who
were a trifle forward, showing
very poor college spirit. Margery
Morris thought the “artists”
should be fined.

On the other hand, the re
maining six spoke up in great
glee that it was the best thing
that had happened to Dalhousie
in a long time. It was done in
water colors, so it is easily repaired, but if it was paint it
would be vandalism. ““Marve!ous!” remarked Caroline Loven.
would do it agajn if I had the
chance ”’

 

PHARMACY GROUP
HOLD MEETING

Members, of the small but
mighty Pharmacy Society of
Dalhousie held a regular meeting
in the Medical Sciences Building,
Monday Oct. 20.

Extensive plans’ were laid for
social and athletic events in the
forthcoming season. The newlyelected sports manager, Bob Crowell. announced that the
Fharmacy group would field a
strong basketball squad for interfaculty competition.

Announcement was made. by
MacDonald, manager of
social activities for the society,
that plans have already be a
mapped out for the big annual
Pharmacy Ball which is expected
to be held in the near future.

The Pharmacy Society, still em
bittered by their defeat in the |

inter-faculty hockey league last
a aise the hands of Arts and

oe °

grounds, .

>

will eet to even’ ‘the |

 

Neo Pagan
World Is_ —

Here Now

“The world we live in is a neoPagan world’ according to Prof.
F. H. Page, who addressed a
meeting of the Dalhousie University branch of the Student Christian Movement Sunday evening
zn the Dalhousie mens’ residence.

The speaker said that all too
sittle time was being devoted to
Christianity and the discussion
of spiritual things Indifferenve
scems to be the prevailing mode.

“Neo-Paganism is not the trend
of one nation or of one people,
but of all, The tyranny of gold
and machines are the two. great
evils today-”

As a result of these and other
evils, Professor Page said that
‘we are more deeply moved by
fiction than reality.” To illustrate
this point he cited the case of a
radio broadcast by Orson Wells
“More people were affected by
his “Invitation to Mars” than by
the dropping of the bomb on Hiroshima.”’

“Responsible study’ was expounded as the possible solution
to this difficulty. “It is not the
effect of Christianity to make
eil colleges seminaries’ of theology, but to make us do what we
ought to do”

The duty of a Christian is to
vphold the university as a place
‘of true education”.

 

S.C.M, NOTICE

Prof. F. H. Page, Professor of
Psychology at King’s College,
will speak on the subject “A
Christian and a Pagan Unive.- —
sity, Sunday, Oct. 26,
Men’s residence at 8:45 p. m.

Notice

A pep rally will be held, Friday pean Oct, 31.

 

in the

Vet Engineers

Allowed Only
Three Years

The Veteran’s Advisory Office
announced this week that Preengineering students under D. V_,
A_ benefits intending to complete
their course over a period of four
years must take one vear at their
own expense.

DV. A_ regulations concerning the matter state that benefits
can be paid for only three years
of a pre-engineering course to be
followed by a professional course
as given at N. S. Tech. Exception
to this rule, however, are those
students who were given a four
year contract by D. V. A. to include a B. Se. as well as an
engineering diploma. Most of
these contracts were drawn up in
1945, but students in doubt are
requested to contact the Advisor’s
Offiée.

Blasts Wanderers -‘O’Neill (above) president of the
Dalhousie Amatuer Athletic Club

Windy

last week condemned as “unsportsmanlike” the policy of the
“Wanderers Club, long-time leading group
activities. “They are no asset to
any league’? he said, “and the
Halifax Camadian ‘Football
League -would be well rid of
them”’,

e

in Halifax sporting

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1947. HALIFAX, N. S.

FIELD A “GRAVEL PIT”

“ade —r Sie
ia i 7 7 , ise ; : Y ee hg af - “i # ri
¥ a5 i os
= us * es c pie Se Z
‘ ay : T =
A ¥

 

- A
b ae 1 er
an rereicect oe Pat * 8 a OB YS Y
ie

Wind Cited As Prime
Mover Of Top Soil

 

Dalhousie’s football teams will be called the

“orfuns’’ rather

than the Tigers in future months if something is not done to provide
them with a home field. The pebbly bit of terra firma which passes
as the Dalhousie field today, is no credit to this university according
to officials of the university amateur athletic club.

 

Debaters
Meet At
Sackville ~
At the ‘annual meeting of the
Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League *held at Mt. Allison
October 17-18, the University of
New Brunswick Law School at
Saint John was unanimously accepted into the tri-province league.

Delegates representing the ten
members of last year’s M. I. D.
L. were in session, and with the
acceptance of U. N. B. Law
School as eleventh member, it is
the largest intercollegiate union
in the maritimes.

Imcluded among. the
delegates present were five representatives from Studley Campus. These, were Gordon Coles
and Carl Palmer of King’s, Co)in Smith and Bob Kaill representing Dal and Charles Scott as
Pine .Hill’s representative

The conference continued until Saturday noon when all business on the agenda was coipleted. A topic which raised much
discussion was the question of a
final closing date of the schedule
for the year A definite date will
be set in thé future by which
tive all ¢c’*ates must be completed or defaulted.

‘erided at the

‘inning team of
ds ar Ee
ies Should enter/the Canadian Intercollegiate finals if they wished
to do so.

twenty

It was o'so eo7)Lf aemrep bia"

Attending this year’s session
were representatives from St.
Mary’s College, Dalhousie Uni
versity, King’s College, Pine Hill

College, Acadia University, St.
Francis Xavier University, St.
Dunstan’s University, Mt. Allison

University, St. Thomas University
and the Universinty of «New
Brunswick.

Chairman of the conference
was M. I. D. L. Secretary, Ray
Stevens of Sydney, N. S.

ELECT OFFICERS

A new slate of officers for the
coming year was drawn up at tke
second meeting of the Dalhousie
Law Society held in the Munroe
Room last Friday.

Featured at the meeting was
the election of Ken Matthews as
Basketball Manager and Dave
Churchill-Smith as manager of
the inter-fac hockey entry. Don
MacEachern nd Foo Grant were
elected Gazette correspondents

Colin Smith gave ‘a brief report.
on the M. I D. L. conference
which took place at Mt Allison
on October 17-18.

‘ bas

Commenting on the present
condition of Studley field, one
cfficial of the D. A. A. C. said
that it was not in fit condition
icr the playing of games involving physical contact. A notice
pusted by the D. A, A, C, last.
week indicated that the football
Tigers had to play the Navy at
Wanderers grounds, despite the
fact it was a Dalhousie home
game, because it was not thought
reasonable to risk serious injury

to the players of the participat-.

ing teams. Bob MacDonald, captuin of the Tigers said that the
field was in very poor condition,
Navy players who use the
field for practice through permission of University officials,
while acknowledging their indebt
. 7% ?
ana

edness to the University still de- .

evied the deplorable condition of
the playing area

In past weeks,
breezes have wrougnt havoe with
tne field, The valuapie inches of
soil covering the nard rock bed.
vi tne field have been blown away as dust. The turf is gone,
there is barely enough soil
to make it feasible to plant new
grass next year
and

One D. A_ A. C, official comyesterday that it is
that such a _ condition
should exist — especially when
a large and very healthy field
supphed by the student

to the university, has been
laying in a bank, gathering in
rt: |
Toront Pao £: a an
‘ S . + + > - ~ = a

count has ex
mented
strange

— oe 4.
eOcegouliu,

sor.: time, yet there

s@ 2 .und the area to

‘ut unoft. clal users of the

{ It is 2 Saturday after: shi Soavay players, children mostly, who are _ rsponsible:

for a great deal of the damage

 

Payzant
Addresses

Axemen é

Dalhousie’s delegate t9 the
Aarhus . Conference, Geoffrey
Payzant, addressed both the student body and the Students’
Council at Acadia Ti'nj+ rersity
las week-end on I_ §, S. matters.

Dalhousie’s investment ‘in send~
ing a delegate to the conference
heen a sound one, in’ that
sister universities throughout the
r™ovinee will benefit as well as
Dal A corresondencs has already
heen established with "st, 7 x.
Correspondence with the “ath Vie
Mniversity. ot Nitmegen: ba-- ler

_ been maintained as a resyit of

our delegate’s survey of Duteh
institutions of higher learning.

4 ‘ e a_i
t : * 7
4 2 ‘
7 5 po 4 h y es
f ent. i ‘pas ite ae
ms _ seb A Pa a »

the autumn

ADT

 
  

 

eat a

Te

 
    

  
     
   

~

 

There are 63 miles between Halifax and Wolfville. Saturday,
hundreds of Dalhousians covered these miles with everything from
Goodyear to Bramham-Henderson, blazing a trail that upset the noonday snoozes of several small towns, and finaly set Wolfville on its
ear with a disturbance not equalled since the days of Evangeline.
Appearing in buses, trucks, cars and ancient Fords, the Dalhousie
delegation arrived in a cacophony of noise that engulfed Wolfville
and spread out along the rusty D.A.R. tracks for several miles.
Acadia, one of the more notable depositaries of college spirit, was
mildly amazed at the rejuvenated Dalhousians, and neither rugby

.. team nor bleacherites could quite work up the steam required to
humiliate the cocky invaders.

  

”

* M7) eh cle _# *

From the moment they hit Wolfville, the Dalhousians, 400 strong,
ob ‘ @ut-yelled and out-spirited the 1000-odd Acadians and fellow travellers
a Fe at the game. And after plastering the countryside with paint there
Wie «could be no doubt as to who had to win the game. It was an allout effort that appears to have put Dal in a very favourable position as
4 ry weguards the League championship. Acadia has a tough nut to crack in
‘4 Kings, whom they met Saturday, while Dal has only the moribund Navy
a outfit to hurdle in their last game. It would seem that the worst
fs Dal can get now is a tie, in event of which a play-off would be forthcoming.
+ ‘ « « ‘ ’


Our friend “‘Cip”, who writes sports for the Acadia Athenaeum,
as swinging his Axe again. If you remember, he swung it in our
direction a few weeks ago in his first column, and this time he has it
sharpened. He referred to our remarks on his original comments &s a
“ponderous opus”, and says we followed up our Oct. 19 statements
in the Oct. 17 issue. (What an odd calandar he must have). He

__ has the impression that we don’t like apples; however we hasten to
= assure him that we like them so much that we have made our home
among them for many years. He says that our tennis triumph dis. played no sort of prowess; it was just a minor thing. Well, we chose
b that example because it was the only thing to have been decided at
i that time. Here is what he said;’’... if he is holding that up as an
| example of prowess, he better tuck his chin in.”’ Tuck’s chin is ont
re still ee after Saturday.

& * * * * *

He makes more defensive gestures in front of his previous stateHe thinks once Halifax high

Dal* can capitalize on this and

ments concerning Canadian football.
schools have developed some talent,
put out good teams. My friend, that is what has already happened;
if you look over the roster of the Dal team, you will find 13 Halifax
High School League players on it. You say that the brand of footcball is not good. It’s good in that it is the best to be seen in the
‘Maritime provinces; certainly “gullible” Haligonians think so because
‘they flood the parks wherever it is played. The contention that
the game is impractical in other Maritime Universities is absurd;
all ome has to do is look at the rest of the continent. And as for the
-Maritimes in particular, we refer our friend to what is going on at

St. F.X., where plans for the new game are going on apace,

‘

+ + + + *

He notices next that there has been a rebirth of spirit at
Dal and beetles off to embrace last year’s Gazette sports major
qdomo in his critical attntions. He tells how our predeccessor sang a
burial service for the Tigers and wailed about absence of spirit,
and comments on our rejoicing over its presence now. Well, maybe
so, but what of it? And when he says that we becloud the main issue
of whether Canadian football is in or out by going into raptures over
Dalhousie’s second youth, or second childhood or whatever you want
ito call it, we say again, what of it? As far as we are concerned the
main issue is Dal, and this Dal spirit which has been breathed into
us; whether we play English or Canadian football is a secondary
consideration - surely the way we feel was demonstrated to you in
full measure Saturday. He also disagreed with us when we said that
Acadia had half their Varsity team on their Intermediate City League
entry; w were merely basing our observations on the first game
Acadia played - they defeated Kings with a goodly number of players
in the lineup who later appeared on the Varsity Intercollegiate
outfit, people like Boutilier and others. “Cip” says
“in fact some of the Intermediates were moved u to the Varsity,”
it merely backs up our own statement.

. + © * * +

Mr. Cipin objects to our “rural P.U.” atk: Well, We'll with
draw it. He thanks Windy for treating the Hatchetmen to the Dal Dartmouth game; we'll thank him fo rthe kind gesture Acadia made
(Continued on Page 8)

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

" @ i / f 5 . e . /
- ng 7 i 4, 7 : ee 7
ok ay . : "e . : «
4 = _ ny f . ‘ *
5 im let u : ’ f
‘ Me, P 7:
1. a #/ : nd : F
>? 7
4 ‘e igs & os .
NT ae ee | le
7 Y os " i . > ys
?. 4 ' ‘a
, | i > a , ne
: iets » ’
f ; . . °
Tat ’
-, — ad e e
4 *
j rs :
f 3 .
i
f f uy
i AS
‘
1
:
1 é
. Pe '
q
F :
7 F
fa! + «
. Shela’ .
z +
i;
>
« a‘, bi
m
<, '
.
*
{

 

”

 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1947.

 

| CHALK UP 3-0 WIN AS DALHOUSIE
CONTINGENT INVADES WOLFVILLE

 

a

The Dalhousie English Rugby Tigers,

playing inspired football

defeated a game band of Acadia Hatchetmen at Acadia Saturday to
move into a tie with the Valley team for first place in the League,
Driven on by the lusty cheering of 400 Dalhousie throats the visitors
drove their way to one of, the most satisfying victories racked up by
a Dalhousie team in many years. The game was bitterly fought, and
after the fourth play of the contest when Robertson scored, Acadia
was fighting a desperate battle and the Tigers were waging a winning

one,

Acadia pushed the action into the Dal end on the game’s

first

play, but their advantage was short lived. Led by a penalty kick,
the Gold and Black jamed the Acadians against their touch line, and
after a near miss by Gordie Hart, picking-quarter Robertson threaded
his way over just before he was hit by an avalanche of red and blue

clad figures.

The convert attempt by MacMillan, taken from a dif
ficult angle, was missed. After play Was resumed, Acadia emerged
as far as center field,- but were soon swept back, and the Tigers
once more came within a breath of scoring. Morrison of Acadia, one
of the outstanding figures throughout the game, relieved the pressure

with a 45 yard kick. But once again Dal took it back,

with Russ

MacEwan carrying the ball and only a fine tackle by Fred Smith,

Acadia fullback, prevented a score. The pressure was relived,

how
ever, but at half time, Dal was in the Acadia end During this half
the Dal scrum had a 14-12 advantage in getting the ball out.

Big Don MacKeigan ran the
Acadia kick-off back 40 yards
as the second half got under way,
and a few minutes later Dal neariv scored as they moved to ae
five-yard line. However, Acadia
recovered the bal], and a sparkling line run sent them deep into
the Dal end of the field. Quigley
relieved for Dal with a _ nicely
placed kick to touch which went
out at centre. The Tigers pvoceeded into the Acadia end again,
but when an attempted field goa!
by Harrisson narrowly missed, the
Hatchetmen touched for safely
znd dropped the ball out from
the 25 yard stripe Roach, Smith,
ard finally Morrisson, on a succession of smart plays, brought
the ball deep into the Dal end
but inspired tackling bogged the
Acadia attack in its tracks. <At
this stage of the game, the dxs
perate Acadians were hurling
themselves at the pace setting
Tigers, whe, while not content

with their lead, were nevertheless
primarily concerned with protecting their advantage. Big Neil M Kelvie rar the ball into the
Acadian end,*but a twisting, skillfvl run by Morrisson more thea
cifset this gain. Dal got the ball
after the two-man scrum, and a
beautiful line run ended when
Gordie Hart was finally felled

the Acadia 25 yard Kine. A-ain
-\eadia came back, but as before,
they hadn’t the. superiority ‘to
niaintain a scoring offensive, and

‘the tide turned on the 20 yard

‘ine. But after the Tigers surged
again to the other end of the
field, the Acadians, fighting desperately, rolled back and hemmed

 

the Tigérs in. Morrisson nearly
scored twice, and Demont, Baillie,
Phillips and Stewart all
turns at trying to break through
Rut the Dal line held. The Acadlan scrum heeling the ball

but

took

was

cut. almost consistently now,

their backfield was felled as if
by their own axes as they were
met by the Dalhousie defenders

The last serious

came when .Jimmy Morrisson
worked his way almost into the
clear, but Bliss Leslie came ont

of nowhere to bring him down.
the forwards heeled
and Robertson punted
out to centre field where the play
ended a minute later.

Smith and Demont
starred for the beaten -Acadians,
end Hart, MacKeigan,
Robertson and
for the elated

ers. Final

Next serum,
the ball,

Morrisson,

Quigley,

MacEwan shone
and rejoicing Tigscore: 3—0O for Dal

 

it was a good slogan in war.

“Say Schwartz and be Sure’’.

in Coffee.
der and Dried Fruit.

 

Acadian threat _

 

We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Foanded in Halifax in 1841
ee ee eee eee eee eee 7

 

» oak Seo a2

RAYMOND FIELD
(Continued from Page 1)

exhorted the thirteen to hold fast.

The staceato of the cheers cut
clear and sharp across the field
anu the players stiffened and

held off the last desperate thrust
cf the Axemen. Victory was ours
—— brought about by the players

with an able assist from the
supporters.
During the evening the team

were guests of Acadia at a dance
the gymnasium to the
band. Sey
given in
strains of the college

cral novelty numbers were presented during the evening and
were well-received. To accomo
date the overflow of students,
other were held at the
same time at University Hall and
2t Hansens.

By the hours, most
of the fans were on their way
home happy in the thought that
the Trek to Acadia had this year
resulted

dances

wee sma’

in victory.

 

n. G'S;

All KCS Old Boys
'who wish transportation
back to the school for

Old Boys Day, Nov.
please contact Mac
|Grant, 112 Young Ave.,

| or phone 2- 3741.

ye a E,

aD aa

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

Say SCHWARTZ |

and be sure!

It is now a good slogan in peace:

 

 

 
  

  

 

t
y
;

\- “TOVE LAUGHS AT

_*  "TANGIER

 
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
    
  
    
  

     

  

 

 

 

* mer 3 year for the Dalhousie bas~ ketball squad, last year’s city
- loop champions, according to

\ if Sohn MacCormack, Dal Physizal_

- Director, This year’s team has
_ dropped out of the city loop in
favor of an “all out’ on the infem eo eeiate front.

Although placing but third in
the intercollegiate league last
_ season, they are now setting their
- sights for top honors in the Dal,
St, F, X_, Acadia, Tech _basget-eering bee It is hoped that the
loss of such outstanding stars as
- Blair Dunlop and Alex Farquhar
will be compensated for, at least
_ in part, by new material inelad
ing a noted Junior player of last
year, Dee Shaw of Sydney.

The purpose of withdrawing
from the city league was that
more time and _ concentration
could be devoted to building up
a team that would be on a par
with, if not better than, the other
College teams in the loop. As
many games as possible against
toy notch teams will be played
in the home gymnasium on Satuiday nights It ‘is expected that
the interest of the enire Student
Body will be aroused by the prospect of many good home games
in view for the coming season.

' The Basketball Managing Com’
mittee consists of:

Neil McKelvey — Manager
Frank Rogers — Asst.. Manager

OXFORD THEATRE
M. T.

ANGEL AND THE BAD MAN
HIT PARADE 1947
w. T.
CARNIVAL IN COSTA RICA
aeeDOs DRUMMOND

AT BAY

 

 

F. s.
noid

~~

 

7 ANDY HARDY

he bese Gndooe and» otitdeor

sporting

equipment

is found at

THE SPORTS
LODGE

86 GRANVILLE ST.

 

& DALHOUSIE RINGS

| Birks have in stock
official college rings in
10K gold.

Coming soon will be

| Rings with Gold Crests

- HENRY BIRKS & SONS
: LIMITED

¥

Registered Jeweller,
il osriben Gem Society .
Halifax, N. S.

mounted on black onyx. {

 
 
 

eat

x sid #S

3  DALHO USIE GAZETTE

AS NAVY CAPTURES FIRST PLACE

 

Bob MacDonald, the Tigers’ plunging fullback, shown scoring Dal’s touchdown in the game against the Navy at the Wander- ers’ Grounds, Wednesday. Paul Lee, at right ‘with the referee,
watches the section. The Tarswon the important contest to allbut clinch the Halifax Canadian

Football title.

 

D.G.A.C.

There have been splendid turnouts for badminton, basketball
and archery and the various managers have remarked upon the
excllent material for Varsity
teams,

But the spotlight is still on the
ground hockey crew that AL
meet Acadia at Wolfville on Saturday, Nov. 1. The game will be
of interest to all and it is expected that a large crowd will
trek northward.

Interclass basketball games will
get underway this week with
Freshies and Sophs battling in
the opener.

Congratulations are due to
Patty MacKinnon and Jean
Schurman for their fine cheerleading Saturday.

 

 

nee
e

| THE

GREEN LANTERN
RESTAURANT

407-409 Barrington St.

 

‘The sign of a good meal’ |
|
|
}

 

 

CASINO

Starting Sat. Nov. Ist.

 

CHARLES CHAPLIN
in
MONSIEUR VERDOUZ
with

'

MARTHA RAYE

The Dal Tigers, confronted with a superior team on almost
every count, battled valiantl yto bring home a victory against the

Navy Wednesday afternoon at the Wanderers’

Grounds. Fighting

hard all the way, the Tigers at times gave their supporters among the
crowd, of 3,000 fans hopes that they were going to pull through to
an upset triumph, but in the end the power, finesse, and experience
of the service team told the story, and the sailors walked off the
field on the long end of a 13-to 5 score.

With this third straight victory in the Halifax Canadian Foetball League, the Navy all but won the loop championship, and need
only to beat the Wanderers to nail down the crown officially. Dalhousie has completed its regular season play, with a record of three
victories and on edefeat, and will face St. Mary’s in the league

playoffs .which start next week.

The outstanding star of the
game was Navy’s Len Murray.
The most devastating runner the
sturdy Dal line has faced all year,
Murray time after time carved
his way for big gains when he
surely seemed trapped. In addition to his brillant running,
Murray also did the Navy punt
Se an some of the passing, thus

making himself .a real thorn. in
the Tigers’ side.

The game started out very
evenly with most of the play being confined within the two 30yard lines. In the first quarter
neither team had a good scoring
opportunity, but on the second
play of the second period the
Navy struck like lightning to
seore the game’s first touchdown.
With the Sailors in possession of
the ball on their own 36 yard
line, Murray smashed his way to
the 44 and a roughing penalty
against Dal put the ball on the
Tigers’ 48 yard line. Ginger
O’Brien then stepped back and
arched a long forward pass to end
Martin who caught the ball on the
5 and ran over for the score.
O’Brien then passed again to
Martin for the extra point, and
the Navy led, 6-0.
to Dal territory. Near the close
cf. the period, however, George
Mattison intercepted one of Murray’s passes to give Dal a first
cown on the Navy 25. Bob Wilson
on two plunges picked up a fist
vown on the 15,. Lee drove 9
yards to the 6 and Bob MacDonald gained another first down
c> the 5. Wilson plunged to the 3.
end the first vlay of the lasi
quarter, MacDonald went over for
the Dal touc lown. Wilson’s attempted conversion was wide and

 

DAL trailed, 6-5, The rest of the
game was controlled by the sailors, as they batterd the Orange
and Black into submission. Murray scored a rouge, and in the
closing minutes of play, the Tars
taarched 87 yards to score agaia,
with “‘Mac” Me Leod passing to
Jvan Edwards for the 5-pointer.
McSweeny converted
pc int.

Don Woodward, the Tigers’
hard luck man, suffered a mid
¢ neussion of-the brain in the
fcurth quarter, and was taken
to Victoria General Hospital.

Dal played a real good game.
The line, sparked by PETE MacDonald, did a fine job. It was
simply a case of good team beiiz
beaten by a better one.

FROSH SHOW
CROWDS CHEER

(Continued from Page 1)
:2.d not with, the actors and performers. When the show ended
and the crowd clapped, one felt
that it was merely a gesture
a gesture of -thankfulness that
he Students Council dance w
to begin. “Good old Don Warner,’ one fan was heard to say,
“he never lets us down.”

When Alton Loomis returned
from a date with Siamese twins
he was asked whether he had a
xdod time. “Yes, and no,” was
h‘s answer.

Notice

A dance, with music by Denny
Burehell’s band, will be held in
the Common Room, Men’s Residence, Saturday evening, 0.t.
25.

i <. d
Pk Ss * i eee

the final,

CAME TO NAVY 13-5

MACDONALD SCORES LONE DAL TRY

 

‘CAMPUS

ROUNDUP

By Joe Levison

 

Saint Mary’s again loom on the
scene as title contenders, making*
an interesting threesome for the
final series. While it is hard to”
make observations on the rédlative abilities of the three leading teams, Dal, Navy and St.
Mary’s, opinion has it that the
clubs are just about even with
Navy and Wal signt favorites,
This is by virtue of the rugged
style of play featured by the
Navy and the all round attack of °
the Tigers fronted by a viciously
driving line. Saint Mary’s are rat
ed better than average in the
backfield, With “Fierce Hirschfeld,’’ Charley Campbell, Graves

and John Young as speedy ball
carriers. : ,

However, their line stil] leaves
much to be desired The blocking
is mediocre and the charging nil.
The Samtamarians also featured
a revamped passing attack which
ws very effective. So there isn’t

much to choose between the
teams It looks like a superior.
final series from this vantage
point.

TOO EMO) M2SSee saver! Beenee) eocnts sbdbae

Again Acadia was the reciplent of the “Wanderers treat«
ment.” The erstwhile Axemen
had planned on reddening and
blackening our own goal posta.
Friday night A sentimentalist in
the crowd said that Dal wouldn't
do that to them. A reassurance
cummittee waited up till 1:30
a. m. Saturday to make sure of

this, and then went to bed, That

was a tragic mistake, Like wee
gremlins the Dalhousians crept
conto Raymond Field at 3:00,

plastered the grandstand and
goal posts with the worthy gold
and. black, and at the conclusion
of an interesting two hours wakened a Wolfville gas station attendant for a refuel and buzzed
OFF Ticenes 13s rye Te eee

Wolfville felt the full weight
of the attack next day. Bad’
énough to wake up’ with Dal all
over the campus. But this was
nothing to the arrival of the
student body. No Acadia demenstration ever approached the
volume and joyousness as did the
Dal thunderfest which kept the
tuwn of Wolfville in an uproar.

With such a fierce light burnbehind the Tigers
couldn’t help but win the game
which they did handily Following the game the Dal colours flew
at the masthead as a cat, com:

eee ee Be eeee senses Sees ee

ing them .

fortable in advanced rigor morti«
and painted black and yellow was
strung up by the GULLIBLE Hal.
igonians. This was soon followed
by a Halloween skeleton, tastefully adorned with Acadia colors
symbolizing the death of the Axemen. Meanwl il , tke arple k-ock
in a simmering rage.

"They could do naught,
4

ers were

however,
as their senate read the riot act,
Dal ran on unchallenged and unabashed| May we suggest at this
“ue oq 24042 P[Noys yeqQ jurod
other game between the two
teams this year it should be played at a neutral field, and let the
paint fall where it may.

Well, here we have the rebirth of Dalhousie Long may it
»-lon and far may the opposition
run.

P §. You haven’t seen anything yet.

 

*< Tee ae
a on Ae 5
Firel ie siee<:
   

 

 

i ie goticlce are for Ne present occupied with typical I, S. S.

which do not ordinarily come to the attention of Canadian’
« '

  

se “tt is generally ramen by Canadian I. S. S_ authorities that interWERE - Real projects arranged if European countries are far from satisnn . factory to Canadian students who at present must spend several
ns  bundreds of dollars attending them, and also suffer a loss of potential
a Pay } _ earning power tpon which most of us depend for our universjty edugem et Guided sight-seeing tours, pleasure cruises, and languid periods
_ in rést camps are fine for students who need come no further than
the distance from here to Moncton to be in a foreign country, but
PAs.” to us a visit to Europe is a tremendous event, not a moment of which
ean be wasted.
One project igtnined in Holfand this summer by the great
‘amiversities of that country in conjunction with the Ministry of
Education, Arts, and Sciences, was a short summer course in English
at the famous old university of Leiden. 4

, ' To this came students from all over Western Europe and the
Bue United Kingdom, with four from Canada. The course was entitled
| “The Culture of Cities,” the aptness of which title becomes evident
when we realize that the whole history of Holland has been one of
development of many cities, closely placed within the small area of
the country, each with a story neatly dovetailed with that of each

neighbor. ‘

The political, economic, and social history was presented in this
light by means of a carefully designed syllabus of lectures, tours of
inspection, demonstrations, and even a recital on the magnificent
fifteenth-eentury organ of the Pieterskerk in Leiden. The famous
art. of Holland was the subject of a particularly interesting series,
as was the bouwkunde, or architecture, in which field Holland’s contribution has equalled and perhaps exceeded that of any other country.

- A grossly overpopulated country like Holland is very conscious®
of the meaning of a word we use carelessly,home. The entire country
is undergoing a great change guided by a national plan of constructtg ion. "The details of this plan were studied at length, particularly in

the field of town and city planning It was of great interest to see

the pans in blueprint form for the reconstruction of Rotterdam, the

entire’ centre of which was flattened by one of the worst German

attacks of the war. “Temporary”? buildings of brick and tile were

promptly built at the end of the war, and are being replaced under
iy the plan, which in the course of time will result in the entire city
being rebuilt. e

 

A project of this Kind is worth the attention of the overseas
student, as it gives an intensive course of acquaintance with a foreA eign country. One particularly interesting note appeared in a lecture
by a high-ranking government official, which was rendered with the
3 utmost eandour To build a house in Holland, it is now necessary
to have the sealed approval of no less than thirty-two government
offices, ,

Other projects of the same sort were held in different European

countries this summer, of which the famous Salzburg Seminar was

the most conspicuous example by reasop of the abundant publicity

tts American sponsors gave themselves in this worthy effort. In this

as in others the best of everything was provided — first-rate lectur
Ste ers, a fine, historical setting, good accomodation, and the best pos
me, sible opportunity for international fellowship among students, earnpeli estly studying the-problems of other nations.

| International gatherings this summer frequdntly jdegenerated
imto low comedy by reason of their great numbers. International
Quakers, International Children of Temperance, International Wo| men’s Clubs, International Students, International Communists, Boy
pat sg. Scouts, Christians, flocked together,, bustling with good-will, and
enormously satisfied with what is now humorously known. as “The
International Outlook ”

ie In the first year in many of comparitively unrestricted travel,
ie peers thousands flocked together, hashed over a ten years’ backlog of

| _ ¢liches, and returned either hopefully confused or tragically over
satisfied.
; Not tog much ean be said for an international gathering in
which students meet to study very seriously together in a constructive
way and under the guidance of the greatest men in their fields. No
efforts by Canadian students in their International Students Service
ia belaing up a world-wide university community will be wasted.
. ' Geoffrey Payzant

a! THE MARITIME LIFE

HAVE A HEART TO HEART TALK

WITH HART, IN REGARD TO YOUR
LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAMME. IT
WILL PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE LONG

RUN, LIFE INSURANCE COSTS YOU
NOTHING. | \

A. R. FRASER, C.'L. U.
Manager Nova Scotia Branch
Green Lantern; eee Halifax, N. S.
"Telephone sevevmsves OPO T4D

 

   
   
  
   
  

  
  

Robert E. Hart

 

‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE ,

RES_

     

Dal Daze...

   
   

 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1947..

GAZETTE SAVED

Circulation Booms As McClod Arrives

By P. Juniper McClod

Red-itor Dew Miilwright sat at his desk in the basement offices of the GAZOOT (Dullhousie’s.

Oddest Student Flublication).

His fevered brow was drenched with sweat It ran in little rivulets down

his nose, saturated his redundant mustache, and dripped into an ink- bottle, Millwright was worried, At
the other side of the office a trash can wiggled uneasily It jumped. It slid back and forth Fatuous.
and Fliterary Editor Less-Ozone peered anxiously over the rim. He was worried also. Millwright had
just thrown a typewriter at him, and he was completely unkeyed. It was less than ten days till dead
line time, and Less-Ozone had received no contributions.

He had tried. That was obvious.

He had

paraded the campus with signs declaiming on ‘Friendship, Companionship, Battleship — all are offered
in the GAZOOT clique,” and “Come Along, Freshmen — won’t you join us for tea and tears?’’ But.
no one had contributed He had offered cash prizes for the best poems on “Communist Infiltration and
Canadian Football”’ and “Ten Best Methods in Hanging an Iron Curtain.” Still no one had contributed.
He was cornered. Millwright was angry at him, The GAZOOT would be late next month.

The air was tense. Millwright
threw a table at Ozone Ozone
climbed up the wall . There
was a gentle knock at the door. .
No one spoke, The door opened
slowly. Millwright gasped — making a wet sound, and began to
murmur fervently the magic
words — “C U_L. A. means
confused under Libera] Administration, C. U. L. A. means. wat
There, outlined against the stygian darkness of the outer-hall,
stood a stranger, tall of stature
and capitalistic of countenance.

Summoning all his strength —
the Red-itor pulled a Uniom Jack
from his pocket, and | gaining
strength thereby, advanced to
meet the stranger. Ozone clung
to the wall, quite near the ceiling,

““W-w-w-who_ are y-y-you?”’
demanded Millwright, in a stentorian falsetto.

The stranger’s saturnine countenance beamed upon him “JI sav,
old man, I’m the contributor:”

Ozone slid down the wall and
splashed on the floor. With great
self-control, Millwright muttered,
“Yes, that is of course, and cer
tainly’ Recalling the fruitless

T - SQUARE

Anybody got a cigarette? Only
two weeks since the smoker and
not a cigarette on me. Thats
what I get for going in the common room. Why didn’’t you go to
the smoker, Blakey? Just think,
you could be smoking your own
cigarettes,

Orchids to the rugby team who
Showed their true’ colors (black
and blue) by defeating a strong
Arts and Science team 8-0 It
must have been the orange juice,
eh fellows? Lets keep up the good
work and put Commerce in its
place. How many noticed the
pair of bloomers: on the field
during the game? Oh, you must
have; you all know Basil and
Newton.

The Society seems to be getting nowhere with their plans fer
the annual trip, Come on fellows,
pick a place before someone
really tells you where to go. it
is our policy to allow other faculties the use of the common
room. Certain rules are in effect
regarding treadtment of the furn
 

iture THESE APPLY TO
EVERYONE, NOT ONLY ENGINEERS. We appreciate

our
common room, do you?

 

University of Western Ontario
also took the measure of the
McMaster Rams... This time the
lep. sided. Score was 28-2.

 

quest for talent, he became sly

and cautious. ‘‘Ah-ha, I see. Yesyes. Well — see Mr Ozone who

will assign you a three page fea- >

ture to be completed in twenty

minutes Athd, by the way, what
is you name? Purely for our files
of course.”

The

stranger smiled. “I say,
old man, don’t you know? I am
P Juniper McClod, seventh

cousin, on the fraternal side of
course, to J. Cricket MeGosh, and
direct descendant of M. Rufus

At {the sound of this
revered name, Millwright collapsep weakly upon Ozone, who was
attempting to hide himself under
an old GAZOOT, screaming, “We

Rayne ”’

BASIL WINTERS

GLISDISISSSSISSLISSSISSSASSAS SS SSSA A

are saved, we are saved. McCled
is here!!

And in a rushing tornado, the
hallowed mame was carried
thiough the halls of the moss:
hung Arts Bldg. to be revered in
all journalistie (Except
of course, the King’s Phon
which, as any fool knows,
lished by ;
for

circles
gran’,
iS Pusijournalistic
circulation on the
angle)

Siuares

Quddr

McClod
typewriter and began to write a
weekly column. McClod, in fact,

was here.

sat down before

 

 

LIMITED

383 Barrington Street

ro .

Now Showing
MEN’S OVERCOATS, TOPCOATS

SUITS, FURNISHINGS, Ete.

   

ol ad a a a tn ae ee ee ee ae ee 2

‘
eee eS.

?

OM ee ee a ee a

Oe et et ht he et th ht me

ate pl (A iy 8

 

 
 

~~

 

a

FRIDAY, octosEn 31,1947 
 

 

THE a tie GAZETTE

EATS F ARM ERS
Tieioicing Throughout

moo he Province
By The Athenea Acadian
Once every year — more often would be a litile too much — Dalhousie girds up its loins and

campaigns in the Wilderness around an oasis known as Wolfville. In bulletproof buses and with elephant

guns they journey down, and engage the apple-far mers of the region“in pitched battle. This year’s

trip

was successful: not only did Dal win the battle, but the spread of civilization in those regions rendered

the visit enjoyable.

‘In the spirit of such events, the Dal safari was well equipped with fruit juice of various sorts,
and found a rousing welcome in the shape of familiar signs and notices when they reached the wilder
ness in question.

 

THE OPEN WINDOW
At the Acadia dance Dal supporters celebrate the great
victory.

 

 

NOTICE THE LITERATURE
In the Dal stands at the Acadia game

 

‘AFTER THE*GAME
Two Dalhousians,
hands with the chaperons at the dance.

Bob Lyall and Jean Parker, shake

Modern Landscape

One of the most surprising aspects, of the landscape encountered was its modernity. The
streets were literally paved with
gcld: the gold (paint) read this
way: one, two, three, U_ Phi, D
etc., and the signs along the way
were in the-same splendid colors,
Qn one hill stood a sign noifying
the public that George Munro f
Dalhousie had captured the hill
in the nineteenth century; this
surprised us — we had not known
that the inhabitants were so well
versed in modern history. There
was a sign which asked as to
‘who had put the ‘cad’ in Acadia.
It later appeared that they had
erected a cat, also, upon the flagpole of that institution, which
eat displayed a brilliant gold and
black coat. When we left it was
becoming decidedly high. Even
the stands and the goalposts were
painted gold and black; unfortunately, some of the natives respo: sible regretted this step and had
mistakenly tried to erase some
of their handiwork, with the result that one of the goalposts was
white while the other was a glorlous gold and black — a somewhat ludicrous result.

Dal 3 — Acadia 0

Upon entering the field where
the game was to be played, it
was discovered that Dal supporters were expected to pay a sum
of thirty-five cents per head per
entrance This was
mistake of sort,

Obviously a
so Commodore McDog in the leading bus
tustructed his
The other
ample,
tered

some

proceed.
buses followed his ex‘and the Dal convoy enduty’ free. Of the game
itself we can only say that Dal
crew to

(Continued on page 8)

   

at home

 

PAGE SEVEN

THE ODD JOTTING

4 “Myself when young did eagerly frequent,
Dr. and Saint...”
The Rubaiyat of Omar Kayyam,
According to a notice appearing in the columns of this illus
trious publication there is a notice to the effect that a movement
is afoot to start chapel services on the campus, This, while an exe
tremely worthy cause, is one which should be approached with caution,
There are a great many difficulties in its inception, which become
all the more obvious upon mature reflection,

To begin with, in a non-sectarian college, how can a “service”

-be conducted which would embrace all the denominations represented

in our student body? Who shall say which or what service shall be.
followed? It seems to us that the final decision. would involve rejection of certain aspects which members of some creeds would be unable
to accept. If, on the other hand, no service at all was followed, and
the matter became one of discussion groups after the manner. of
those sponsored by the S. C. M., who could prevent their becoming
mere battle grounds for members of different sects? Who would take
upon himself the responsibility and the authority to say who was
right and who was wrong in these arguments? et

Again, there is the matter. of time, most students find that their
morning forbids any meeting which occurs before nine o’clock. Stch
a meeting would have to be very short. At any time after that it
would be almost impossible to gather together any considerable number of students for this purpose. The object of this movement, while
very worthy and proper, involves a matter which students habitvally approach with caution — the broaching of their religious beliefs. In a University established solely for one religious denomination
this would be comparatively easy, but here, unfortunately,
other matter altogether.

FERAE AND NATURAE

During the wee small hours of the morning the three pyjamaclad figures stole stealthily down the hall in the Men’s
tewards the washrooms Their mission was - ah but wait, for they
enter and suddenly three beams of light stab into the near darkness.
They flash along the walls and into the corners of the room. Under
the sinks and around the corners of the shower walls but it appears
that the search is in vain for they depart from the room empty-handed,

A few minutes later they appear at the other end of the building
and proceed through the same routine until suddenly, ag they are
about to leave a voice penetrates the hollow stillness .

“Here are the two I killed this morning, there should be some
more around for they have a hole here.”’

The search is again resumed until another of the party cries
that he has found a live one. There is a quick scurrying of feet and
then a cry of, “I’ve got him now.” Then stillness reigns except for
the panting of the silent figures

There was joy in the hearts of these three when they inspected
their specimen and he was pronounced to be a very healtthy and
lively chap for they had prowled for almost a half an hour now, so
intent were they

it is an
Residence

on their mission. The specimen was now bottled and
to be discovered in the morning. Attached to it
“One live animal found in the
in the morning in

left under miy door
was a very curt note that proclaimed,
the shower room ”
Immediately I pricked up my ears and decided that it was now hig h
time that I got to the root of all this.

After a very lengthy search of the premises I found the culprits
and subjected them to questioning. At first they would not talk but
time and perserverance brought forth the statement that they had
heard that I was with this worthy publication and that
they wished to voice their discontent through its powerful medium.

The healthy is now on display at the office’ of
this institution and may be inspected from four to six. He is being
well nurtured and cared for during the day and it is
to be interviewed at any time.

showers at about one o’clock

connected
very specimen

to his displeasure

Continued on Page 8

. Hospitality
in your hands

 

iB
“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke™
h d trade marks which

oS uuish the poodect ok CoCo lad, COCA-COLA, LID. <= HALIFAR

 

 

 

 

 
  
    
 

 

MEETING AT HALL
i‘ we interesting account of life
an “Trois

       
  
    

  
  

   

iia - Pistoles Summer School” was
presented to the Circle Francais
-- Pysday evening at Shirreff Hall
¥ Pee ‘by Helen Powell, Dalhousie co-ed

as! Sita

_ who attended the school last sum"mer. rs i
raha ‘The meeting, first of the year,

i
is
{a MAG f
Ala

eval ©
a . lt
7 i

~

= was held at 7.30 p. m., with Cir- ele:«= Francais president Anne
~~~ Peckham in the chair. Alan Mac---—s«Intosh «was elected = secretary
ees, treasurer of the organization.
Mr, Willis presented his v>.» gion of life at th McGill summr
igen “school which he attended last
st mmer.

| - . The French language was util--.-—s ged as the medium of speech for

the entire meeting, and although
‘there were times when the French
was grammatically ham-strun¢,
~~ things went off well for a first

icy meeting.

iw ei -. Following the conclusion of
Ee . regular business the meeting dissolved into small discussion
mh groups who chattered familiarly
be _ 4m French as they nibbled at
i! dainty refreshments provided
» through the courtesy of Mile. Joli,
‘. instructor in French at Dalhousie.
The meeting closed with the sing
ft ing of three French songs.

 

FE: | Dal Students —

A weleome awaits you at
456 Barrington Street,

Ps Where you will find A

complete Music Service

+ Soe and the finest

Sports Equipment.

 

\ A BIG VALUE
; IN
Vee Be GOOD READING!
GR | Spirited reporting, exciting
fea.u:es — done without senae nit sationeiism —- makes The HalRor © 4 ifax Herald and The Halifax.

ee Mail companionable: papers.
ieee Their complete, reliable news
pe coverage helps all to a better
ok, ' | understanding of the world in

ea | which they live.

| Read
ie THE HALIFAX HERALD

f and

ee _ THE HALIFAX MAIL

ri _-} Two of Canada’s Greatest
52, Oh Newspapers

 

—
EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool “Road °
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

_ Corsages

\ | A “Colonial” Corsage de’ signed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes

Be . of tenderness and love.

  
  
 

  
  

‘gq; | NURSERIES Limited’...
381 sarrincton sT- WALIFAX

 

 

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT REPORT }
(Continued from Page 4)

qe eeccesenneS

when they provided blankets for Pattie and Jean to sit on between
yells. Incidentally, congratulations are in erder to the cheerleaders
for that “chewing-gum" yell they came up with. Like everything
else Saturday, it was inspired.

* * = * *

Well, “Cip” said that “old Acadia will be ready friend, come
Saturday.” That couldn’t have applied to the wee hours of Saturday
morning. After waiting up for a bit, a vigilant band of suspicious
Acadians went to bed around 1.30 and thus gave a half dozen paint
fiends a free hand on Raymond Field. The original plans called
for an earlier visitation, but the gods were with the commandos,
and they couldn’t make it until later. What a rhubarb there would
have been if they had been caught! We wonder in what way Dalhousie’s Joe College spirit will next express itself?

 

 

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL \
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. 5S.

 

:

MUSIC LOVERS....

for a complete stock of
RADIOS
PLAYERS
RECORDS
INSTRUMENTS

ACCESSORIES
All available on time payments —

——_——

 

 

visit
THE MUSICROOM, LTD.

4-6455 105 Gottingen Street
“The City’s most exclusive music house.”

OP LOOP EE vP
VE ee
ee : td

&

~

“e

S05

SAS
5. hE:
Toes we

- Shane’s For Shirts!

Yes, Shirts, Socks, Ties, Hats, Gloves, Pyjamas,
Robes, Suits and Overcoats .. . a’ well rounded stock
of clothing and accessories modelled expressly for
students.

You will benefit by

visit to... '

a hanes
Cite)

Y

  

112 Spring Garden Road. ? at Birmingham

 

— ————

Lbs geod al ya Paar Gh TEM AY pws peg am Sapte Ne way ohne WA yee meh LN; TYR
: * eet ei a iar

long lacked what many call “College Spirit,”
~ eall “Residence Life.” The two words are synonomous,
sentiment without the other is virtually impossible |
intellectual fame, what it needs right

~

“$

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1947.

OPEN LETTER TO PRESIDENT KERR
(Continued from Page 2)

The question of fellowship is not as easily solved. Dalhousie has.

but which I prefer to
and the one
Dalhousie has
now is a college life. More

than one. graduate has told me that half of college is the friends
you make there, and the art of fellowship which close association

produces.

To sum up, Sir, I feel that the idea of fellowship which you
expounded is the prime need on Dalhousie campus as on the world
campus. Knowing your interest in this subject, I trust you will do
your utmost to secure what many of us consider a prime need, a

residence,

Very sincerely yours
Alfred Harris

ee EE TOL

ODD JOTTING

(Continued from Page 7)

7

 

I have just had a short talk with him and he said that he liked
his old surroundings as the steam which is in abundance on all floors
suited him very well, As it he he has already caught a cold in our
drafty office. He also said that he hoped that the University would
not hear about him as they would most certainly put an end to all
his brothers who lead such a comfortable life, :

So far we have had many opinions about what species he
belongs to but they vary, however the: most popular idea is that
he beléngs to the roach family, If you have any knowledge along
this line we would appreciate any help in identifying him so that

we may call him by his right name,

TN

DAL DEFEATS
rARMERS

(Continued from page 7)

“housie won by a score of three

points to naught points. After the
game some wild spirits wandered
hither and _ thither,
up here
Cheers

Some

and ended
and there, mostly there.
Hotel
drawn
Witless Hall by a numfemales

in the Paramount
found themselves
towards
ot
wanted to and stay
for They Others
entered the dining hall for a meal
which included several
of apple Others went to various
eateries in the Metropolis of
Wolfville, while one party went
to the Paramount Hotel for a
good meal. On arriving here they
were asked who had won the
game: one Blissful, the leader of
the the inhabitants of the fact that Dal had.
Whereupon

ber who apparently

them come
awhile. went.

Varieties

group, informed
doors opened

throughout the hotel, and cheers,

by and

Brav 1c oT wh : }.

Bravos, resounded through the

accompanied clapping
building.
Free Dance: Nasty Notice
The various groups slowly wended

their way back to Acadia,
where there was a dance to he
held, under the auspices of the

Welfville

Passing a

Good Losers
peominent drainpipe,
a sign presented itself: Down the
drainpipe with Acadia. This seemed a little these signs
were everywhere God knows why
they wanted to paint their place
up like that. Arriving at the
dance there was another slight
error made manifest: we were
expected to pay! One of our hosts
in a truly Christian-spirit, opened

Society.

strong:

Be Suart-Look

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a heaithy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance, All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

  
  
   
 
 

 

 

SO RRS a UVR UE

a*back window. Availing ourselves of this service, we entered.
The shindig was a good one; a
highly was had
by us, On leaving
This
one was neither painted nor writ
in

enjoyable time
rate.
another

at any

we noticed sign.

It .was ~a
notice saying that all should turn

large proportions.
out to the field to clean up the
mess made by the rats We had
not known that Acadia had rats
who made messes too large to be
On with
hosts, discovered

lgnored.,

of

sympathising
one our we
that ourselves were the rats referred to, and that they suspected us of making the signs and
decorations on or about their
campus. This we indignantly denied, but to what avail;

ef small mind, these,

people
who make
a mess and blame it elsewhere.

 

A’ Complete
PHOTOGRA.?H 2
SERV'CF....
@ SUPPLIES
@ EQUIPMMENT |
@ REPAIRS
@ ASSISTANCE

 

the

CAMERA SHOP

of the Maritimes Ltd.

ee

26 BLOWERS ST. — 3-8524

  

 
 

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED
Studley Drug Store
29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store |
141 Hollis St.

 

   

SMART

   

48S

 
