 

\

 

FORGETS ’CHUTE -
MYSTER
OF THE
LOST LEGS

— — See Page 3

 

   
    

Vol. 79

 

a & * * ca

G

   

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14th.,

 

* & a % 3%

alhorwsie

AZETTE

? 8 * + a

 

TAKES BEAUT!!

& & 2 = Bt

 

PHAROS
YEARBOOK
PHOTOS
FREE

 

 

1947

Now 3

 

ROOTERS UPROOT UPRIGHTS

 

Fuddled Male
Plunges From

~Hall Window

Shirreff Hall dewellers got the
surppise of their lives Monday
afternoon when an unidentified
‘“““tranger”’, clad in trousers,
last week’s shirt and carpet slippers, burst into the hall, raeec
through the corridors and ended
his wild escapade with a daring
half-Gaynor through the window
ef a second story dormitory.

The slightly “fuddled” jumper
was nabbed on the first bounce
by agile members of the city Gendarmerie. It was reported that
he suffered a broken arm in his
spectacular plunge to the earth,
but no accurate report can be
obtained. It is certain, however,
that the frustrated paratrooper
wus suffering a slight nervous
condition,

“Help me, don’t let them get
me, don’t let them kill me’’. These
«re the expressions used by the

\yild-looking gentleman as he.

raced in the main entrance of
the Hall, waving his arms above
his head and shouting aloud. It
is not known to date if any of
the residents of Shirreff Hail
have left for more private quarters, but if any persons are contemplating moving out, we have
been assured that occurrences
such as that which happened MonCay are rare.

A Hard Game
Well Fought

The Dalhousie locker room
Tuesday afternoon was a scene
of loneliness. The table tennis
forms gleamed greenly in he
light from overhanging bulbs
with their bare green shades.
Here and there a locker door was
ajar, and an occasional pair of
shoes, or a sweater lay on the
cement floor — evidence of the
absence of their owners. Bits of
tape, and bandage, and gum
wrappers were strewn on the
floor, and on one brown wall a
feotball play was chalked with
bold strokes.

‘As the afternoon faded into
evening, the impression of loneliness grew and the anxiety of
waiting became more intense.
Hollow voices of former Dalhousie athletes seemed to echo
through the empty spaces between the lockers, whispering the
eternal question — “Did ‘they
win, did they win?”

They lost, one knew, as soon

(Continued en Page 8)

 

 

AS 500 STUDENTS ATTEND MONSTER PEP RALLY ;
— — Guilty — —

 

Chess Club
Holds Match

O. M. MacConnell, Nova Scotia
Chess champion and President of

the Bluenose Chess Club, played,

and won all nine games of a
simultaneous chess match exibition with members of the Dalhcusie Chess Club on November
11. The matches were played ‘'n
the Common Room of the Men’s

Residence. Mr. MacConnell, who
is also Vice President of the Caradian Federation of Chess, won
the nine games in an hour and
a half of play.

Vince Currie, Secretary of the
Bluenose Chess Club was also
present and instructed the club
members on the procedure of
Simultaneous play.

Following he matches, Mr. MacConnell invited all those who are
-nterested in Chess to become
members of the Canadian Federation of Chess. He congratulated
his embryo opponents on their
keen interest and invited any who
wished to take part in the Provincial Championship tournament
now underway at the Bluenose
Chess Clob.

Members of

the Dalhousie

 

Chess Club who participated in
~he play inchuded, George Cross,
Bryan Sherwell, Don Betts, Banning Hardie, Bob Den
Cross, Ruggles and
lichard Bierkoff.

Jeffreys,
Pritchard,

 

TO HOLD DANCE

Complaints resulting from the
absence of Common Room dances
in the past few weeks have been
pouring into this office fast and
furious.

AS 850 STUDENTS SEE TIGERS

 

“Glory, Glory to Dalhousie.”

Best In Years

That was the mighty ery from the throats of 500 rabid Dal
housie students last Monday night

as Art Mears and the Dalhousie

publicity organization ran off a monster pep rally, the greatest in

the History of this school.

“Beat Dalhousie, Beat Dalhousie, Boys.”’

That was the challenge voiced by a vast number of St. Mary’s
students and tram car alumni of the Irish college as they held, in their
own small way, a pep rally at the St. Mary’s field.

There was no doubt about it — spirit was at a fever pitch at the

two Halifax colleges.

The whole thing started when the Dalhousie publhcity organization
fostered a snake dance through the main streets of town. A temporary halt was called at the Court House on Spring Garden Road,
where a mock trial was held and a dummy wearing a St. Mary’s
sweater was found guilty and hanged by the neck on a scaffold
erected on a car of 1923 vintage, painted yellow and black.

“One, Two, Three, U Pi. Dee.”

That was the yell that went up as the milling students filed
through the aisles in the Green Lantern Restaurant, past astonished
customers, and then back to the Garden View Restaurant where an

alleged
through
“One, Two, Three — Heave.”’
That was the cry that went
up at Studley field while the

Dalhousie parade was downtown.
I; was the cry of an eager group

of St. Mar, s students, intent on

ce ee ER

The Dalhousie Gazette does not
CLEla eu ommon Room
ts. - we usderstand it, however, following a Friday night

dance in the gym, no dance will
be held in the Common Room.

The night Sweater

ilop will continue this Saturday

Saturday

as there will be no Friday
dance in the gym. Music
for the occasion by the Denny
Burchell Five.

night,
Light

 

DEFEATED

— — Anxiety — —

 

cook got the surprise of his life as the company marched
his kitchen to the accompaniment of drum and bugle music.

ripping down the Dalhousie goal
posts. They did not escape unecathed, however. The Dalhousis
gang sent a few students back
carly and they apprehended two
ef the marauders as they tried
to escape along South Street.
Taken to the gym, a short trial

was held.
“To the showers with them.”
That was tue ery that went up
from tne angered mob, and into
t.e showers went the St. Mary’s
unfortunaics. Their mid-week
bath was ivllowed by a liberal

application of yellow and black
paint, amd after their abject
humility had been displayed to
ihe students, they were released
to go their separate ways.

The tearing down of the Dalhousie goal posts could not pass
witheut retribution, however. A
group of some 100 Dathousie
students embussed for St. Mary’s
field, where they took their re
venge. Great strips of the fence
along Quinpool Road were torn
down, and as a last gesture of
defiance, the mob ripped down
the St. Mary’s posts and fled in
the face of a full-seale attack

by the stalwarts of the City Police Force,

When things quietened down,
four students were in the city
lock-up, but the eloquence of
Cne bespectacled, former candidate for president of the students’ council eonvinced the blue
clad minions that the Dalhousie
students apprehended were merely spectators of the affray.

‘

 

 

 
  
 
    
    

) iat si
i 4 m9 SHG MIEN Mi a a
: PS Rec NN et

 

 

 

  

 

NADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

an ; ig ei ‘Editor-in-Chief
BE Ok hos LEW MILLER | :
Business Manager
AL RUBIN
: Features
; Sports
i i aa BOB sea ART MOREIRA
F ee Ce KEN PHELPS CLAIR KNIGHT
JOE LEVISON JOHN ‘TRIM

  
  

 
 

iy | “ KARL WEBBER

Mh * eae, C. U. P. Editor
fi 2 \CK LUSHER AL LOMAS
" een MCD. ;

 

 

   

 

Ase’t Business Mer.
ROBIN MacLEAN

 
   
 

   

Circulation Manager
DEREK GRIFFEN
D. SADOFSKY

Associate Editors
PETER SEDERIS
STAN FITZNER

Proof Readers AL HARRIS

SOMERS PRIKLER
i Co-ed Editor
8 "ERIC aces

Co-ed Sports
RENNIE FISHER

 

   
  

 
 
 
 
  

 

1947

 

Friday, November 14th.

STUDLEY DESERT

AK N ‘There is little need for Haligonians to visit Death Valley for
re the sight of a desert. Studley Field is a perfect desert. In its present

ditio best possible use for it would be to advertise it as a
Tes CAA my do our neighbors in Maine

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

tion in a similar manner as

i : on sac of money by showing off the results of their ia

dae  ligence, the the consequent erosion of the soil. — Eigtere automobiles

' saving. Nova Scotia with flags and streamers bearing the words,

 #Desert of Studley.”

aie) Ig is a deplorable state of affairs when Dalhousie teams are un
ene ie to play their home games on our campus. A team captain is
\ certainly te be commended when he refuses to _permit his

ae take the risk of serious injury. A casual stroll across the field
anew would reveal the great number of jagged stones that lie on the surface
: melee of players generally results in the origination of a dust

storm, and hidden-ball tricks are the order of the day.

Another serious aspect of our loss is that the Students’ Council

Bi ie forced to pay out goodly quantities of our money every time a

| game is played elsewhere. This year, for instance, when a Canadian

| football game is played at the Wanderers’ Grounds one-third of net

f is ue receipts is turned over to the Wanderers’ Club. The remainder of

hi the receipts is split between the five teams who form the league.

In the past when Dalhousie had its home games at Studley, students

Ws were admitted on their Students ’Council cards. If this (as it should be

i for Dalhousie home games) were done at the Wanderers’ Grounds
the Council would have to pay to the Football League the sum of
fifty cents for every student admitted. If a thousand. students, for

Laney: were admitted the Council would have to pay out $500.00.
Supposing that there were 3000 spectators at this game, the total
met receipts should be $1500.00. Of this amount $500.00 would go
to the Wanderers’ for the rent of the field, and then each team wotuld
receive one-fifth of the remainder — in this case, $200.00. Thus
the university would pay out $500.00, and receive only $200.00 in
weturn. The result — a loss of $300.00. — Why? — Because we
 thawe no field.

SR: ie ‘As it is, students, who on buying their Council cards pay for the
alt | privilege of seeing their teams must make further and unnecessary
payments because the games cannot be played at Studley.

dn a certain office on the campus are letters collected ower a
yperiod of years which all have raised a cry of protest over the deter
- Goration of the football field. Little if any action has been taken by
tthe people responsible, and it would appear that little is to be done
in the future. In any case, a protest is too late. The field is ruined,

Nv and it is likely that three year’s work and care will be necessary to

veancel recondition it.

Ly ices ‘Tt is a sad misfortune that in the very year when two winning

tia | football teams have appeared they are unable to play on their home
eet | field. This is a sericus matter, and the GAZETTE feels that the
Be Students’ Council should take immediate steps to rectify it rather

x i than leave it in the hands of people who apparently are not greatly

ieee
speaks well for the university,

ees | oa AILBOX the year 1947 promises to beat
ig ROCA, this fine record.

| Ventiat Ht sci 95, 1947 . AR, Frazer, CL.U., Manager,
Wea ee i Pen rene many of the: The Mega) sera Co
foot-ball games played by Dal- ,
- housie this term, I take this
ke ha __ opportunity to commend the
teams on their excellent show| ing. May every success be their”’s
Tone) ae in the matches which are still to
| NY Beit ee played. : |
Ba und ed Dalhousie, with its peaord reg- istration in the 1947-48 season,
O oan none to * ahead with ever

  

 

 

 

  

players

 

 

 

 

     
  

+ a

hs
$
cert BS
if Aw
oats Act
bil
f eh Te wey

   

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
    
  
  
   
  
   

in all its
Although history

increasing momentum
activities.

    
 

I ae I ee te tee
Fa - ae y

NOTICE Ys
Students Veterans Association
have announced. that

St we 4
ee a

a

Nov. 11. It is proposed to have
the Dalhousie hand algo in the
narade, Dr. Kerr will sees. at
the cenotaph,

Pie *

Dalhousie.
Student Veterans will parade on

lg
dt if eae
eo! yt: ry

ra :

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

MILLSTONES

by McStoop
The othe day we see a strange
face; it is the strangest face we
ever saw. This is because it belongs to Roscov Seedle, who

 

comes here from somewhere in

Europe South, where they have
strange faces— at least, that’s
Seedle’s excuse. He puts up a
lold moan when he sees us.

I am entering this country not
long ago, he says, and I am very
mixed up; it is all this damn
free speech or somethings that
is mix’ me up.

We encourage him to proceed,
since the subject is one in which
we all take an active interest.
He proceeds, and one gathers that free speech is a bad thing.
THE CUSTOMS IS CROOKED

I am entering this country, he
says, and I am thinking how are
things here anyway. What with
this capitalism «and all which
Comrad Tito tell us about I am
thinking that the people here are
all misery and destructions. But
net so; I find smart man who
looks like a policeman. This one
I am afraid of but he only looks
in my trunks and says like this:
O.K. So I enter this country. I
see no miseries; all is being happy
and fat and not like Comrade
Tito says. There are houses, there
are shops where they are buying.
I buy food, and to see if it is
being poison I give it to a kiddie
on the street. But the kiddie does

not drop dead so it is not being

poison. And I see everywhere that
only a few people run away when
a policeman come— so I think
that they are not being scared
of the polices, no. Everythings
looking so good, and not like
Comrade Tito says. But aha! it is
when I are arriving to Dalhoosie
University that I discover the

evils Comrade Tito are speaking
cf.

At Dalhoosie everybodys are
telling me that here are free
Speeches; here they can get on
the platforms and say: the government, he is no good— AND
NOTHINGS IS HAPPEN> TO
THEM!!! So, I are entering classrooms, and the professors saying
you Say your own opinions, that
is what he wanting.

[ see newspaper the Gazette
and Advertiser, which always is
not coming on time but late. I
enter. They say to me: here. wa
have free speeches— we say what
we please if it is trme— AND
NOTHINGS HAPPEN TO Us!!!

So I am saying Comrade Tito
is biggest damn liar and am
settling here and working for
Gazette when [ discover what
Comrade Tito is meaning all the
time. What if they do not eat
in Inner Obrottchnna, they
now used to dying; if they are
trodded on, they do not mind any
more? But they happy by not

are

having free speeches which is

greatest eveil of all time.

I work for Gazette; they say
cover Glum Club show; show it
is stinking arid I saying so in
Gazette. One of the professors [
am not liking and I am saying
so in the Gazette, and why. The
football team he game,
and I saying they cond no
is lose
not

how. The Board of govuers they .

coming here and I saying throw
them in the pond for fun, and
how. The chureh here at the
eorner— it is a colour I do not
like an? T saving naint it cold and
Llack. The pre minister of the
(Continued on Page 8)

Re

Friday, November 14th., 1947

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

-S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE *° FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

DARTMOUTH, N. 8.

HALIFAX, N. S.

 
    
  
       

 

BRYLCREEM |

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning, Brrtcreem will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a heaithy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM im
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

 
 
 
 
 
 

   
 

—— ee O_O

Attractively set up departments
| featuring — ® BOOKS
| ® MUSIC
® RECORDS
® PIANOS
@® ELECTRIC APPLIANCES

ee Piano Co. Limited
|

   
  
  

127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N. S.

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure! ‘

 

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in peace:

“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection fi
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.
i

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841
me Ce Ce eee eee eee

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Scienca
enjoys international! distinction
NES

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engine
Bachelor of Science ciao

Bachelor of Commerce Musie

Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital P

Master of Science Minin
ning Geolo
Pre-Professional Courses vis

 

- Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments
in the B. Se. course about $210.00 a year

in the B, A. Course average about $160.00 a year

Many vuiuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held im

February in any Maritime school. Special $600-00 scholarships for Hon
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History
The Professional Faculties

Law. Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees

 

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the
Residénces in the Deminion. Residence is
in the University Men’s Residence.

oP bears

finest Women’s
provided for first year men
sit } Other men students live in either
4 aff diated institutions or in selected and approved homes.

Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service

students,

Meais for all students are available at the University.
Por full information write te THE eae

 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
    
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
     
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
    
  
  
 
   
    
              
        
    
    
        
      

  

ps?

eo

~ aa

    
       
     
       
    

h

’

{

Wey CE

 
  

 

St. Mary’s in
First Debate

St, Mary’s is in for a hard
debate when they meet Dalhousie’s new threat in debating
cireles. Bob Kaill and Maleolm
Graham, our representives, were
ehosen last Tuesday night im the
Munroe room of the. Forrest
Luilding. Over a dozen students
tried out in the debating trials
which lasted three minutes each.

The topic “resolved that Canada snould adopt a program ot
universal miltary trainifg’” is also the topic of the coming debate
with St. Mary's.

The Law boys have done it
again’ In a debate held in the
Avis building last Wednesday
night, Law defeated Delta Gamma by a simail margin. The Law
team of Don Harris and Bill Cox
upheld the affirmacive of the resolution “shat the Maritime Provinees be united as a sovereign
state, The Misses Dot Cullen and
Dolores. Sodofsky represented
Delta Gamma.

 

 

HALIFAX, N.

‘MED HOP, CO
Dal To Meet

GAZ

ZETTE

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

S.. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14th.,

ED FC

1947

 

 

—At the Hall,

FUN AT THE FORMAL

Phapsody in Blue created the “dreamy mood.”

 

 

ROOKIE COP ROUTS ROOTERS
SHOWS LACK OF VOCABULARY

 

  
 

PARSONS — CHRISTIAN NUPTIALS

— a ne for Two — —

*

Unique T-Sq
Of

 

* *

uare Arch

H onour ‘At Wedding

By Les Page

itr
i

wi

1 On hides, afternoon at 4.00
Waa, amid Engineering yells
St. Andrew’s United Church wit
nessed a unique fall wedding
when Rev. Dr. J. A. MacKeigan

‘united in marriage Elizabeth

Christian and David Ralph Parsons. Mrs. Parsons is the only
daughter of Mrs. Olive M. Chris“tian of St. John’s. Newfoundland.
Dave Parsons is the son of W.
Ralph Parsons, also of Newfoundland. ee

- Given in marriage by her
_ cousin, John Williams, the bride
_ wore a green garbardine suit with

“matching ribboned hat and ac
es. ‘Her corsage was of

_ Engineering Correspondent

 

of the bride, attended the ceremony as matron-of-honour. She
wore a grey suit with matching
accessories and a corsage of pink
carnations. Herbert Johnson, also
of Newfoundland, was the best
man.

Mrs. Christian, mother of the
bride, who arrived in Halifax to
attend the wedding, was attired
in a grey suit with black acces
sories. Her corsage was of roses.

Through the courtesy of Professor H. R. Theakston, the afternoon drafting classes were dismissed and the students were in
attendence, armed with  TSquares, with which they formed

 

n ae arch-of-honour.

Asicer accusing Daihousians of being

you are’

“not as good as you think

during iast Saturday’s ground hockey contest at Studley

Field, a rookie patrolman of the Halifax Folice Force singled out

two supporiers of tue Dai team and accused them of

 

Successful

Dance Held
At King’s

A successful. “‘Hockey Dance”
in the King’s College
Common Room on Thursday night

was held

which proved to be “tops”
tertainment for the large crowd
in attendance

Informality reigned supreme in
every sense of the word and the
dancers really cut loose for an
evening of fun and frolic they
will not soon forget. The many
chairs which lined the four walls
of the dance floor were ever
vacant, except during intermission, as the couples chose to hold
the floor rather than give way tu
tired feet.

The absence of a vocalist in
the orchestra was not missed as
the majority of the crowd sang
or hummed their way through
every selection rendered by the
ever popular ‘“Dennie Burchell”
Orchestra. The music of this
group would have done justice
to a “name” band as they allowed

in en
_ the gayness of the evening to be
felt in their every rendition.

LLL LLL LLL LLL
The feminine of bachelor is lady
in waiting.

* * * a
Gerald: ‘Professor Smith, did
* you ever hear a rabbit bark?”
Professor Smith: “Rabbits do not
bark.”
Gerald: “This biology book is
wrong then. It says that Rabbits
eat cabbage and bark.’

alleged

“‘velling’’ at him.

The mounted on

horseback,

patrolman,

approached the two

‘‘vellers” from the oppos
ite side of Studley Field, and

when asked, could support his

claim on nothing except that he

heard “yelling,” and childishly
asserted that it was directed at
kim. “Any! ds would think you
came from Water Street instead
of a university’ said the rookie
cot ; & 1g asked what

o o- x kh persons who,
because oF @reumstances, fount

live on Water
Street, he ignord the question.

i+ necessary to

Because of the presence oi
ladies among the large crowd assembled at tne Gym Store entrance, the young rookie was then
reproached by one of the “oftenders” for using obscene language during his bitter accusations against Dalhousians i.
general. The stuttering officer,
reaching for a justifiable explanation, diverted his attention to a
booklet and pencil and commenced to take names.

The first accusation, that Dalnousians are “not as good as you
think you are,’ was made early
in the game, when a group of
team supporters were ordered in
no polite terms to move back off
the playing field. The regulatioy
ground hockey lines were clearly
indicated a number of feet ahead
of the spectators, but not desiring
the imprint of a horse’s hoof on
their own, they moved.

 

She: Ah, you Arabians are such
intense lovers.

He: Of course, we do everything
in tents.

 

 

Two of the year’s favorite
pies ese .7 tudi
dances took piace on Studley
Campus last week, tne Med Ball
and the Shireff Halli Formal. The

event to which the Hall girls have

been locking forward for the past

month...the Hall Formal, was held
on Thursday, November 6. The
next night the spotlight was

switched to the gym, where it

fell on the Med Ball.

4¢t the Hall dance, the girls
and their escorts were greeted

a reception line headed by
Miss Mowat, and. Helen Bever:
ridge, the house president, then
proceeded. to the dining’ -room
where Cec Roberts’ sextette was
nlaying,

The decoration committee

struck an original note, and used

the theme ‘Rhapsody Im . Blue”
to create that “dreamy” mood.

The main question which the
Freshettes were asking each other

“which Professor are
with?” But in spite of
both the Freshettes

seemed to

was you
dencing
their qualms,
the Professors

a fine time.

and
have

When our trusty spotlight was
focused on the Meds and their
molls the next night at the gym,
we found many happy faces and
“iust below the patat the

have
by. the
‘Meds

Mmanv sk i rts
ella.’

evm

who arrived
the New Look

ostracised

Many
with

sinee been

Forrestmen. Remember ....
men Like the Old Look.”

 

e

— —Just Below the Patella.’

MED HOP LEG ART

The shot of these beautiful
legs were taken by our photographer after hours of deliberation at the Med’ fall dance last
Friday. The Gazette staff is offering a prize to the person who

ean provide definite proof of

ewnership- Either call in person
or contact Robin MacLean of the:
Gazette before Saturday Nov. 29..

 

“I ’aven’t ’ad a bite for days’”
said a tramp to the landlady of arm
English inn, the George and Dragon. “D’you suppose yer could
spare me a bite?”

“Certainly not,’’
landlady. ‘

“Trank yer” said the tramp
and shouched off. A few minutes.
he was back,

replied the

“What do you want now?” ask-.

ed the lady.

“Could I have a few words:
with George?” asked the tramp..

* * 3 * *

Contralto is a low sort of music:

that only ladies sing.

   

 
    

|

 

 

 

 

is Skill: Knowing how to do it.
-. Virtue: Not doing it.

 

ey Oe
P ‘ eats J . ‘
Ree ian we tah ee
f ay ors rahe rey oe
1 a i PP ier
* wd ohit f 2 *
i : # +

{
be

          

' of

HACK HATCHETMEN :

REPORT

BY BOB TUCK

Late and loud came the noises of joyous celebrations Tuesday
night as the Irish of the Willow tree made merry in Corrigan’s Cosy
Corner. That very same afternoon they had sallied forth from behind
the dubious protection of a long wooden fence and had defeated in
righteous combat the proud University of Coburg road. Sure, and
it was a grand victory. Of course they had a certain amount of help
in accomplishing their glorious task, but was not that most probably
due to the generous intercession of patron Saint Partrick who surely
hovered over the field on that great occasion? Besides, the Dalhousians
were a dirty band of heathens — look at all the penalties they got!

The celebrants gave little heed to the hurt feelings of the Dalhousians. A weary band of these, trudging their way back to their
lair with nothing left to lick but wounds (except for a few who had
designs on the physical well-being of the referees). Nothing remained
of the once throaty bellows that had swept across the Wanderers
Grounds that afternoon but low and ominous growls, that pledged
eventual retribution. There were the undaunted few however, who
let roar with the old refrain of ‘‘Glory’ to show that spirits, if not
hopes, were still flying.

Nevertheless, from anybody’s standpoint it was a good game
{with the possible exception of the referees). Until that last touchcown it was as close as the pages in a book, and as exciting as some
recent ones we’ve read. Both sides made spectacular gains on scintillating plays, and St. Mary’s were fortunate enough to keep most
of their yards. Dal was in a somewhat similar situation to the man in
the fable, who tried to chop down a certain tree. Whenever he knocked
off one chip, two would grow in its place. And on the occasions when
St. Mary’s were penalized, the ref. probably thought he was stinging
Dal again, but had got so mixed up trotting back and forth that he
didn’t know whether he was coming or going.

It’s becoming increasingly evident that one of the teams of the
year at Dal is the English Rugger squad. Without any too much notice
these lads embussed for Acadia last weekend and calmly lifted the
City League crown from the collective heads of the Acadia Hatchetmen. With the idea of “We did it before, and we can do it again” in
mind they went ahead, and proceeded to outplay and @utscore the
much abused Appleknockers. The Acadians were the pre-game foverites by virtue of their home field and the fact that they had taken
the initiative by roaring from behind to tie Dal. So all honor and all
praise to the new Intermediate City Rugger champs. And if they
beat St. F. X. they will take possession of the Provincial Title as well.

The curtain is down on the Canadian football season. Despite
the jolly tars and the Willow Tree Notre Dame, it was a good season.
Gne of the unwashed rabble called up the Gazoot Office and poured
out a lo€ of blarney to the effect that Dal should do somevhing about
getting a football team. In a game without referees we could easily
chase his team right out of Halifax. As far as Windsor Street, anyway.

 

DAL TIES SHIPYARDS

 

‘Continuing their season of exhibition soccer games, the Dal botters
‘played to a 1—1 tie in a contest with Halifax Shipyards at Studley
Pield last Tuesday afternoon. Since the Shipyards could only field
nine men, Riggs of Dalhousie was loaned to th eYard team in order
that the scheduled game might be played. The game itself was a
fast-moving tilt, with the play at times ranging from one end of the
field to the other.

Sammy Palnick opened the scoring in the game when he banged
in Dalhousie’s goal in the fist half, Palnick, after taking a pass, beat
Allen, the Shipyards goalkeeper, with a hard shot from close in. The
Shipyards squad knotted the count early in the second half when

_Ford scored after taking a neat pass from Don Constable. The play

was fairly even throughout, although the Tigers did miss several
good scoring chances.

Palnick, St. Helene, and Bierhoff were the standout performers
for Dal, while. Constable and Ford were the pick of the Shipyards.
However, the team play of both sides was especially noticed.

Dalhousie — Bierhoff, Rosenfelt, Bastien, Grossac, Harrison,
Helene, McCulloch, Hennesy, Louisy, Palnick, Gange, Riggs, and

egal. ; |

Shipyards — Allen, Joudrey, Goves, Peacock, Pike, Constable,
Ford, Turpin, (Riggs).

ae leer htenintaspaeessesuensiosmntnstemsssmeeerenses

Ignorance has it’s value — producing about nine-tenths of the

world’s conversation output. ._ ..
oe ew Mae S

Queen Elizabeth was a fat woman. The demands of the
Spansh Ambassador she stoutly
resisted.

Wisdom: Knowing what to do. Pe RF Re

Foresight: Knowing when to doit. “Ts my dress too short?”

“It’s either too short or else
you’re in it too far.”

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Tigers Win
At Wolfville

The deadlocked winners of the
Haitax intermediate English
Rugby League played off at ‘Kaymona’ Fiela Wolfville on Saturday with the result that the
finally dethroned the
Acadia Hatchetmen. The

was-6-3 for the visiting Gold and

Tigers
score

Black. The Tigers displayed all
round superiority over their opponents, and it was more than the
Acadians could do to cope with
the Dal finesse and power.
From the opening whistle Dalproceeded ,to take over
control of the play and displayed
Superiority in both scrum and
backfield play. The Tiger’s six
man scrum pushed and heeled
well, and the backfield, led by
stalwarts like Cochran and Hart,
rolled up long gains. Dal tackling

housie

was also accurate, and Aftadia
attacks were quickly mowed
down. Rosie MacMillan, moved

back to fullback, got away many
long boots, and invariably came
cut best on kicking exchanges.
Robertson plunged over from his
picking quarter position to score
late in the first half, and Dal
was never headed.

The game was still in doubt
until Quigley took a
pass at centre field after a line
run, -and raced the remaining
length of the field to score. Altogether, the play encompassed
$0 yards. It was the first try that
Quigley had ever scored, and it
was one of the most spectacular
and important ones of the season.
MacMillan missed the
Acadia fought back desperately
but the game had been won and
lost.

For the new champs. besides
the seorers, Hart, MacMillan MacCnllen¢h and Cochran were out
however,

convert.

standine while Nemont. Morrison
and Phillips led the Hatchetmen.

 

TRACK TEAM
WINS AT ACADIA

vais Frosn tracxsters returned
Acadia’s visit of last week and
made a clean sweep of their
series, piling up 28 points to 25.
However Dal only won the meet
when the Acadians were disqualified on the 880 relay. An Acadia
runner dropped the ball out of
the lane, thus disqualifying them
from the event.

440 relay (Dal) Tracy, Poulis,
Kenway, Harris - 48.6

Shot Put-Saunders (Acadia),
Dockerill (Dal), Tamlin (Acadia)
32.10 %

Broad Jump - Crowell (Acadia), Martin (Acadia) 19.05

Mile - Marshall (Dal), Johnson
(Acadia), Richardson (Acadia),
5.14

880 Relav - (Dal), Tracy, MeConnell, Rogers, Harris 1.41.4

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage de.
signed by ROSPDA'E
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

NURSERIES Limited...
381 sarrington st. nauirax

 

ar

4 ce. = it ee Shiheic? atts
bf ie nt vif 7 *
yy # . [eat al Ae are

Friday, November 14th., 1947

TITLE |

 

Ground Hockey Squad
Suffers First Loss, 1-0

 

The Dalhousie ground hockey team met with its first defeat of
the year when it lost to the Acadia co-eds here on Saturday, and

stepped back from

the lime-light,

with the score 1-0, after two

twenty minute periods, thus handing over the Provincial Title to the

Valley team.
* * eta *

Acadia’s single goal was scored
by Lois Lockhart three-quarters
of the way through the first
p°riod, aside from one which fell
through at the nets. The ball was
kept in play beyond the threequarter line of the Dal side, with
suite a bit of heavy play near
the Acadia posts. The game,
cefinitely hard fought, showed
tre keen spirit of Dal’s determination. Several times the Dal forward line made desperate attacks
on the Axettes defense in an
attempt to drive in a goal, but
though they succeeded in driving
past the fullbacks, each time they
were stopped by the brilliant defensive put up by the Acadia
goalie, Sylvia Matheson. The
/-cadia team was still smarting
from the 3 - 1 delat given them
a week before by Edgehill, and
therefore they were out for a
victory.

Nancy Jones drove in several

shots on goal, Janet Cameron,
Gwenn Lugar and Gloria Teed
also played outstanding hockey.

As neither Mount A. nor U.N.R.

 

CASINO

 

Starting Noy. 15th.

COPACABANCA

3 with
Marx, Carmen Mir
anda, Andy Russel, Gloria Jean

Groucho

Starting Nov. 20th.

IT HAPPENED ON 5th. AVE.
An All Star Cast

<iocenretaienshesinsenenensioeseenssssisestiesiceinan_|

hockey teams this
Acadia automatically takes the
Maritime Title.

NOTICE

There will be a general I.S.S.

nave year,

 

meeting for Dalhoussie students
on Tuesday, November 18th., at
12 noon in the Basement of the
Arts Building, to meet the new
Executive of the I.S.S. and our
delegate to the National Confer
ence in Toronto

at

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

THE MARITIME LIFE

 

TWO RAPIDLY GROWING MARITIME
INSTITUTIONS :—
VERSITY PREPARES YOU FOR THE
FUTURE. THB MARITIME LIFE PROTECTS YOUR FUTURE.
LIFE INSURANCCE NOW TO PROTECT
YOUR INVESTMENT IN EDUCATION
m AND TO PROVIDE FOR FUTURE

DALHOUSIE UNTI
ARRANGE

NEEDS.

A. R. FRASER, C. L. U.

Manager Nova Scotia Branch
Robert E. Hart Green Lantern, Building, Halifax, N. §.

Telephone

vesenerrene OOO T4H

ees neesessssestesesnnestinennesteneeensnerinses co
 
          
   
 
  

om
x) ie
- d "
ome

 

 

 

: me ride : ai
er. | Anew dee Ur eer

Mer rt bee oe

, 79 ae hi ; my Pict Phe
. ne “ vee wee, fe %

' if. 4% <* ; ‘S

        

 
  

" +

Fs .

i
eh

Rr) 6 be
ey

Friday, November 14th., 1947

JAL OUSTED

TIGERS HAVE MARGIN
* IN PLAY-LACK PUNCH

St. Mary’s battled its way into the finals of the Halifax Canadjan Football League p.ayoxis Tuesday afternoon when they downed

_ the Dal Tigers, 17 - 11, before 3,500 fans at the Wanderers’ Grounds.
_ A generally supperior attack and the better tackling of the Irish

a 1

a
yer a |e
,
Te ey
ears

V4

o
Lt

[

_ doomed the Tigers to their second defeat of the season. The Tigers,
_ however, fought hard in their final, but couldn’t match the skillful
performance of Johnny Youg, Frankie Graves, and the charging St.

.

Mary’s forward wall.

The Irish started out fast, and racked up 7 points before the
game was 6 minutes old. After Don McNeill had punted into the Dal
end zone for a rouge, the St. Marians marched 40 yards to score

the gamé’s first touchdown.
Pass Play Clicks

A hard-running ground attack,

with Buddy Hirdhfield and Youg

doing most of the ball toting,
carried the ball to the 10 yard
line, from where Youg fired a
flat pass over the center of the
line to Graves for the score.

Youg converted and St. Mary’s
led 7-0. :

Dal got its first point when
Bob Wilson’s punt netted a rouge,
and midway through this second
period Wilson booted a 22 yard
field goal to bring the score to
7-4. The Irish struck right back,
however, going 67 yards in four
plays to chalk up their second
touchdown, just before the first
half ended. From their own 33
yard line, Young sprinted to the
St. Mary’s 50 and a penalty gave
the Irish a first down of the Dal
55. Young then connected with
two passes, hitting Graves on the
15 and Hirchfield on the 2. From

_ there, Young bulled over on a

quarterback sneak to make the
score 12-4.

MacDonald Scores

Early in the third quarter Dal
scored its lone touchdown. Bob
to Pete MacDonald gave Dal a
MacDonald returned MeNeill’s
pant to the St. Mary’s 26, and
two running plays brought the
ball to the 6. Paul Lee’s pass
first down on the 4. On third
down, Bob MacDonald smashed
over for the 5-pointer. Wilson

 

Forum News

There is a good future for capable young Canadians in the
teaching t profession today. This
seemed to be the majority opinion
of the members at the Citizens’
Forum last Wednesday evening.
The lively discussion was added
to by the presence of Profs. A.
£ Mowat, Grant, and L. Ricter.

The program opened with a
movie on the function of the
Home and School Association in
England, and a short picture of
Jose Iturbi playing several piano
selections. After the regular
weekly Citizens’ Forum, refresh1 ents were served, an the discussion began. From a general
discussion of the teaching profession the group poceeded to the
task of ansering the Forum
questionaire. When asked if they
thought that community attitud -s
are chiefly responsible for the
difficulties of the teaching profession, the Forum replied that
they thought so. Some suggested
that perhaps more publicity on
the occupation might help make
an enlightened attitude amongst
citizens and school boards of al!
districts. The second question

ethene ni ME SEN eS Sel Er
converted and Dal trailed by 2
points. Towards the close of the
period, Dal picked up a rouge
when Wilson got off a 45 yard
kick into the Maroon and White’;
end zone.
Irish Work 66 Yard Play

Trailing by only one point, the
Tigers were fighting hard in the
final period to put over the winning touchdown. But suddenly the
‘Irish broke through to score
the game-clinching marker. With
the Irish in possession of the ball
on their own 28, St. Mary’s ate
up 82 yards in two plays. Young
dashed to the St. Mary’s 44, and
from there St. Mary’s pulled off
the most spectacular play of the
entire season. A four man reverse lateral, with Charlie Campbell on the scoring end, took the
ball 66 yards to pay dirt. Young’s
attempted conversion was wide,
and the game ended a few min
utes later. ;

The refereeing was decidedly
on the queer side, bu: Dal seemed
to get the worst of it very definitively.

Youg was the standout performer of the contest, with
Graves, Hirshfield, and Pete Conrers also turning in noble efforts
for the victors. Bob Wilson turned into a triple threat man for
the Tigers and was Dal’s brightest star. Bob MacDonald, Pete
‘Mingo, and Don Rogers also
slowed well for the Orange and
Plack.

 

was, “Would you advise a young
person, possesed of the necessary
wualifications, to enter the teaching profession today? Opinion
seemed to be that it remained
up to the individual but that
under the present trefid the future looked very bright for elig
ible prospects. When asked about.

taxes the Forum seemed divided
between making the whole thing
Provincial or leaving the situation as it is.

The next meeting wil be held
on Wednesday, November 19,
when the Forum will discuss “Is
our immigration policy satis
factory?”

 

Optomistic Students

 

In a pool conducted in the
Gazette office prior to the Da]—
St. Mary’s game last Tuesday,
14 optimistic Dalhousians Voiced
their opinion as to the outcome
of the con‘est, with an average
score of 14 points for Dal, 7%
for St. Mary’s.

The highest anticipated score
cf 26—3 for Dal was registered
by Jack Lusher, while Ken Phelps,
only supporter for the Irish,
thought St. Mary’s would win by
a score of 17—5.,

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

AFTER BITT

WILSON CARRIES FOR TIGERS\AT REDLAND

 

Here we see Dalhousie on the verge of receiving another ten
yard penalty for rough play as Wilson of the Tigers and offensive
star of the game is tackled high by Al Mann of the Irish. Slinking up
in the background is “Jess’”” James of the refereeing James’s. He left
his trusty pig at the hitching post and is striding on afoot,

 

Basketballers
Split Twin Bill

Dal’s cagers broke even in
another pair of exhibition contests last week, bowing to the
Dal grads on Thursday, and then
defeating Danny Seaman’s Liverpool quintet for the second time

this year in a return game at
Liverpool Friday. The two contests, especially the one with the
Grads, were excellent games for
so early in the season. ;

Thursday’s game, won by the
Grads, 61 - 48, was much closer
than the final score would indicate, for until the closing minutes,
when the Grads put on a drive,
the game was fairly even. The
Tigers, doing most of their seoring on set shots, found the seniors’ zone defense very puzzling,

_ and could not operate their fast

break against it With any consistency. Dave Stothart rang up
24 points for the Grads to pace
the seorers, while Syl Gossa-,
meshed 18 to top the Tigers,

In the game with Liverpool,
which was held in conjunction
with the opening of the Liverpool
Community Club, Dal came from
hehind a four-point deficit in the
last three minutes to chalk up
a 45-to35 victory. This was a see
- saw affair in which Dal’s speed
‘vas held down by the small fze
of the court. Because Liverpit's

 

The best indoor and nat

   

sporting equipment

  

is found at

  
 

THE SPORTS
LODGE

86 GRANVILLE ST.

  
   
     

“Play More — Live Longer’”

 
 

superior height controlled the
backboards, most of Dal’s points
came via the rebound method.
But just when it seemed the
Tigers were doomed to defeat, the
Gold and Black suddenly caught
fire and dropped in 14 points in
svecession to take the decision.
Foch Seaman, with 14 markers,
Jed the scorers in the very tight
contest. Dee Shaw bagged 13 and
Scott Morrison, a steady perfor
mer all night, to lead the Tigers.

 

SOCCER TEAM
PLANS FINAL GAMES

 

Here are the remaining games
that are scheduled for the soccer
team:

Dal vs Aquitania Nov. 14, 2 p. m.
Dal vs Mt. Allison Nov. 15, 1.30
Dal vs Acadia Nov. 22, Raymond

All the games with the exception of the Acadia tilt will be
played at Studley’s Dust Bowl.
The game with the Axemen will
take place at Raymond Field in
Wolfville.

 

 

MUSIC APPRECIATION

During an enthusiastic two
hours last Tuesday evening, several students met at Shirreff Hall
for the regular weekly meeting
of the Dalhousie Musical Appreciation Club. These meetings have
been held regularly since college
began with a marked success. The
Club, open to all students who are
in‘erested in music appreciation,
holds recular meetings every
Tuesday at 8 p. m. At each meet.
Ing one of the committee members gives a short description of
the composer and works to be
played that evening. At half time
refreshments are served consisting of cocoa and cookies. The
meetings last about two hours,
and anvone interested in the organization is cordially invited.

 

 

One of the math profs. telling
how he liked his assignments,
said they should be like women’s
skirts — long enough to cover
che subject but short enough to
be interesting.

Page Five

ER BATTLE

 

Campus
Roundup

JOE LEVISON

 

Frank Leahy down at “Poles’

Heaven’”’,

. otherwise . known . as

Notre Dame has our*profound
sympathies. We learned with considerable shock the other day
that Mr. Leahy is down to two
hundred players as a_ stockpile
for Lis first team. At that rate
Notre Dame may be defeated anytime in the next few years.

The game that would let the
dope... - -eventh heaven
would be a clash between versatile Notre Dame and triple re“ersing, trigger timed Michigan.
The Michigan squad uses the
trickiest shift and backfield formations in college football, and
in a recent game they completed
(0% of their forward passes,
That’s real class. Unfortunately
Michigan and Notre Dame are in
seperate sections and this makes

meeting between the two power
houses unlikely.

Of course you all know that
the reason for American college
football

power is the fact that they give

teams having so much

sports scholarships to fellows with
sufficient muscl eand ability to
play football. One of the smaller
colleges in the states
gives a total of sixty scholarships
in major sports of the school,
Football, Basketball .etc. _ The
bigger schools like University of
bers.
Life Of A Sports Scholar

by a day by day account of
George Savitsky, 258 pound
tackle for the University of Pennsylvania and last year first string
tackle for the All—Ameriean
team. George spends most of his
day with the team, reviewing
plays, conditioning, Shooting the
breeze in the local coke shop and
reading the papers. When he is
not doing this he acts as life
guard and swim instructor in the
Pennsylvania pool, and also in
the summer time at the occasional
Summer resort in the two months
between the end of school in
spring and the resumption of
football training in August. Gad,
the life of Reilly. All that school
end no potatoes.

southern

But back to Dal where men
are men, scholars are scholars,
émd the football players cram
where they may. It is very nice
to sit here in the Gazette office,
writing the Campus Square
Down, and see the rebirth of
college spirit here. There are few
to the soul than to sit here the
morning after a big snake dance,
tnd reminiscence about pained
Santamarians, irate tram conductors, startled diners in the Green
Lantern, ete. In another year or
two Halifax will be synonomous
with “Little South Bend”, Nova
Scotia, the home of “Notre
Homme’’,

Canadian Game Suits Crowd

Obviously the following statements will give rise to cat calls
and boos by the Rugger faithful
but it should be obvious to all
that the advent of the Canadian
came here at Dal is one with
the rise of college spirit. The
Canadian game apparently. suits
the spectators to a “T” and gives
plenty of room for mass demonstrations. Hullabaloo and other
ruckus dear to the college heart,

 

 

a

mes? =

—
a =
” a

 
 

  
 
 
   
      
  

Pe
a: CLARIFICATION
ee i LAR
e vit ir Ae BPW OLe: aN i ac Ween hes to make the following
[7 athe Bditorial Board of the Gazette wis! ' . LA aa
BPO ‘known to its readers in respect of last weeks issue of the *
i Ws Me CU a the makeup of the pages devoted to Remembrance Bie t oe
eal oe, were a number of errors switch were not sg until si y he i
 goyme was issued. when it was too late to make any p
aaa Mi Whe this manner some material appeared in more pron Bye type io
bit On eee yests and gave some of our readers: the impression that the
pe oe. > Gazette was reflected solely in this material. | oa ‘
eo tt Be ~~) - "The Gazette realizes that there must be many Pair ats
Na Rete matter, and wisheseto state that there was no intention to ¢
eh a i any of these opinions, Me ene”
Parte While it mourns the sacrifice made by our young men in the
Me ae war, the Gazette intended to show the evils of war In the hope that
Mea 3 there might be an awareness of the dangerous world situation; only
pe! through a general effort can a future way be averted, Such a war
ye not inevitable: In no way were these reflections intended to cast
1 a any doubt upon the achievement of the war dead. and of the een
W a by whose efforts alone we still exercise the liberties for which they
te fought and died.
bi ED NEWS AND VIEWS
ae ‘Alas, my fine feathered femmes; inspiration and informatior
By ie are nil for yours truly this week, That middle term spread is appearBa ing below les yeux, darkened by sleepless nights of thinking—26—26
"| ; =—26, everywhere is 26. And your guess is as good as mine?
a Shirreff Hall formal has come and went. By the sounds of things
: t'was a gala event; at any rate, gala-er than in previous years.
it On vlancinge through a McGill Daily, we noticed a picture of: a
gal-amorous looking drum majorette, described (among other things)
as the only drum majorette for a college, band in Canada, which of
AE course is incorrect. Just goes to show you, we’re not so dumb!
“We ‘are seeing 82 thousand “Flash Gordon” jackets on our men
friends. Pretty snazzy, don’t you think? But we cant let them show
. ms up like that. Let’s get out our knitting needles and do something
at about it. After all, we’re from Dal too. |
i He became aware of the rain- hurt. Funny, he thought, yesterat drops tinkling against the remain- day, or last night, or last year,
a ing pane of glass in the dark or whenever it was, my face hurt,
/ r opening which was the window. hut now its my leg.
i: The acid smell of brick-dust and It was quiet in the little house.
in gunpowder filled his lungs, and Too quiet. Only the rain drops,
ns the terrible darkness seemed to splashing on the little pane. ot
press against him, He coughed, glass interrupted the silence. He
the sharp sound echoing through had once more passed into insenstke empty ruins. “Strange’’, he — ibility.
thought “that coughing should Three times during the day
hurt his face so much”. Slowly he returned to the world of pain
as in a dream he raised his hand and horror, anid each time he
to his juw to probe for the cause crawled a few feet closer to the
of the pain. As he felt his gap in te south wall. Then, as
meangled feature, child-like, he he ».sied, tae realization came
whimpered. He cried, softly, and tat \ich the advent of evening,
salt tears mingled with the dry- 1.2 enemy would start to shell
ing tlood- The dull ache began aza:n. He peered at his watch,
to throp and fill his whole being waich, miraculously, was working.
‘with a pulsing horror and he “EXIT”
. thought that he would like to It was late; too late Desperately
: pray but he’d tried it before and he tried to pull some of the debris
; just then merciful unconscious- over on top of himself. Anything
a nets claimed him. The rain for protection. He screamed hysPat continued to beat against the terically as he tore at the pile of
y | brave little pain of glass. brick and timbers with his bleedHe awoke with the dull, grey ing fingers. |
5 dawn. Rain still fell and he was Then he heard it. A thin pierc; cold, and hungry. He looked ing scream developing into a fulla around him. There was the gun throated roar. The shell hit the
rc in the corner, the barrel twisted, house with a blinding, searing
a the ammunition mags partly - crash.
| buried under the rubble. Occas- The rain continued to fall,
| jonally little avalanches of red With a soft murmuring, sound.
dust spilled down fro mthe pile The last tinkling sound had
of pink bricks and plaster which ‘topped.
. had once formed a partitiom im ee
the two-room building. Streams Nowadays a man must have more
i of water ran down from the shell. than chicken feed to run around
emashed roof, and the rain kept with a chicken.
ip up its incessant hammering at the a ey ee
f little glass-square, the survivor of «.welj, there goes another pupil,”
4 : rer peer ares whieb had origin- said the professor as his glass
, _ ally made up the window. eye rolled down the drain.
Inch by inch, he turned on his — oy Ue wel Sa
| side, and raising himself on his Mother: “Daughter, didn’t I
ERS looked over the pile of tel] you not to let that strange
| debris. ‘Where the south wall had man come over to your apartment
he) once blocked his vision, he could ast night? You know things like
Be now see straight down the hill to that cause me to worry.
the valley where he knew there — Daughter: “Don’t be ridiculous,
Was help. If only they’d come up Mother; I went over to his apartAya ke ne nee get him. God, how his Jeg ment. Now let his mother worry.

Hed SANT estas) he oi

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The. people of Liverpool were

frantic. Daughters ran to the
safety of their mothers arms and
the boilermakers ran after the
daughters. Brown, Cameron and
Bezanson had pretty good luck
— it must be nice to be able to
run so fast. Dinner was digested

at a local Cafe, where Brown
took some angular photos of the

scenery.
After

conducted

Mill

highly interesting:

dinner the group was

g
through the Mersey

Paper and found the tour

The kindness

cf the Company in permitting the

tour and in supplying the guides
Was greatly appreciated. Four. of
the groups were feared lost In
3ovs getting on the bus. i
5 Boys getting fe , e digestors but. a quick call to
x * a 2 *
) 2 T ‘ ocateman S howed E he 4 were
. T 7 ; 1
ENGINEERS INVADE LIVERPOOL nt a
: - rn 7 ‘ er eee g<rtaimNn TwiO} iyier rcy 7
Thursday, Nov. i was a lovely erisp autumn Mornin t0f wil “es ~ : yey ont
; fp r ; ¢ — =. rc © a) lay ’ ipe T¢ > +} » in} ¢ bants “et
people of Halifax but it) was a sad day indeed for the inne pbitant cede deh a a br me
7 ~~ : j e . Py, noe oar : ~ei as yl
of Liverpool, for this was, H-day, the day of the Engineers annuat : Uae dt ee
‘ Ts f ; a) earth AS elo ees 1ousiy voted President of the
trip. When sane people were just considering whether to get up and : ai) :
3 ate re ae mntal Club and several new
go to elassés or not, a group of 30-odd Engineers met in front ol
‘ ’ : 4 : z e / bs hs rd eee ae nel Ss were nvite i AS & pu
their beloved shack and took their places in the Mackenzie bus ea d. As the bus
. + ; sy) oe bibiie 4 - Chine 4 enserer I alifax } lve! a
which was appropriately decorated, The first attempt to “get out ered H a : cr Was
, + 7 r ‘ Tait ; in 1 anes Ore hs 2 »}
of town’’ led us in a blind alley, Our courteous driver, a Cape oi ree rousing ¢
“ . éet ° ‘ 4 viol
Bretoner by: birth, asked a passing gentleman; “‘How in hell do you And s0 S d into
eet out of this hole?” The 96: miles to Liverpool were covered in nu the shack and another trip Was
time and the transit men were in high spirits on arriving at their over
destination. ;

 

~- O&O >”

/
aN KES ES. o>
ee

   

right now your grades
are good...
but life holds harder tests

Harder indeed! Life was never a lenient schoolmaster. And making the grade in life demands all
a man can muster in the way of knowledge,
ability and forethought.

Especially forethought! The sort of forethought
that prompts a man to start charting a life insurance program early in youth. The sort of forethought that enables a man to realize that whatever the experiences life holds for him — earning
a living, getting married, raising a family, having
earning power cut off —he is better equipped to
meet them and enjoy them when he has behind
him the security and protection provided by life
insurance.

Talk to a Mutual Life of Canada representative and
get the benefit of his special training and our long
years of experience in adapting life insurance to
the varied desires and responsibilities of people of
all ages and all incomes.

Ask him what policy or combination of policies is
best suited to your particular circumstances. Let

him show you the special features of Mutual lowcost life insurance.

THE

TUAL

OF CANADA

low cost life insurance gies 1867

   

HEAD OFFICE, WATERLOO, ONTARIO

*

a

 

- 1, ‘ ; : a \ i Mita yt A A ey fie im ;
Ey uy Wa ake (te ue as as Ae BW ee BLS

 

a

&

&
* J 7,
\

im - November 14th., 1947

rn : a UMBER 7 STATIONARY

. ogee
‘ mas} wed

    

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

HOSPITAL

On Monday, November 3rd, a meeting of the f ormer staff of the Dalhousie No. 7 Stationary Hoe
I te a 1 pital was held at the Nova Scotian Hotel. Many of t he original members of the unit were there and en
This unit was formed due to the great desire o f the medical faculty of the University to serve their
y . country in the war. An offer was made to the Gov ernment in 1914 to provide the medical staff of a
7 _ casualty clearing station, but it was not until a ye ar later that it was accepted..

ey _ joyed the evening reminiscing about their experien ces during the First World War.
} z : |

yg Ae The University provided space for a barracks a nd an orderly room in the building formerly occupied
i i by. the medical school. Within one month the reerui ts were enlisted and the school was transformed. The
Maritime Business College provided their kitchen and dining room for mesg facilities, and when it
ye became generally known that the Hospital had bee n accepted applications for positions in it came rapidly from all parts: of the country. Thirty medical m en and over eighty nurses applied for the staff which

|. , required but twelve medical men and twenty-eigh t nurses. ‘

RELIEF NEEDS

The many years of misery that have passed and not yet ended

1 have made us immune to mass suffering. The many appeals we have

x heard for relief have created a mental resistance to the effort re: cuired to make us think with any intelligence on relief problems.

 

A oy | The result becomes evident on our campuses during the annual I.8.S.
, i campaign, which raises money to be used by World Student Relief
- in Europe and in the East. (Although I.S.S. is not fundamentally a

relief organization, when relief needs are greatest, they receive most

attention, with the result that the International Student Service is
. in grave danger of being swamped by the new, slick, and Communist,
| International Union of Students.)

2 This reult is that our students, if they think at all on the subject,

f develop a hazy impression of the entire welter of European needs,

ia and many of them think that the recipients are sitting back and selling relief shipments on the Black Market.

j These articles are, quite frankly, timed for the I-S.S. Campaign

te early in 1948. They will introduce you to the mechanism of World
Student Relief, to the needs, which are enormous, and to the means
of meeting them, which need your help.

G. B. Payzant

What Is The Way

Unseeing eyes look vainly for the Way, |
ot For Truth that hides behind translucent panes;
\ “What is the task of life?” they seem to say,

& aA

“Disclose it now while life with us remains.”

s And searching for the way, men live in hope

That guiding lights will pierce the frosted glass;
| | ‘With scarred and twisted hands they vainly grope,
Then fall back in the seething human mass.

In spans of time the human life is brief:
\ It flits across the earthly human stage
And disappears, according to belief,
To live again in some eternal age.

And those who live on Earth with lifted eyes
Are oft forretful of their mortal way,

And vlacing bore on faith for Heaven’s prize,

) They cease to live, and blindly ever stray.

The hanniest of men are these who turn
} From selfishly anostranhizing God:
b | Who seek to aid Him. thinking but to earn
® A vlace with men upon the Farth they trod.

 

Of Time And The River

by Lew

    

A floating bog defines the River’s flow
As on its guided course toward the sea
Its muddy-coloured waters swell and grow
To greater strengths, untamed and ever-free,
The hush of night accents the mighty roar,
The proof of strength, omnipotence sublime;
The steady voice proclaims that evermore
- The rushing torrents shall flow on with Time.
What is the secret of its constant toil?
Why moves it seaward, swift and steadily?
If Time were held would waters cease to boil?
From where?—to where?—and why so constantly?
This friend of Time. indifferent to Man,
Deserves respect—it seems to have a plan.

Seotch Lass: “Oh,
that popeorn smell nice?’’
Seotch Lad: ‘“‘Aye, it does that.

containing
butter,

“Name five things
milk?” “Ice cream,
cheese and two cows.”
* * * * *
“Hello, room clerk, does Joe bit closer.’’
Doaks live in room 202?” * * . ' °
“Vas ” Moe:
14 . : 9”
- “Well, come up and pick him ont French heels?
| — the rest of us want to yu Joe: Dy
home.” guys aren’t French.

 

i

Jock, doesn’t

ll turn around ae drive a

“Who's the girl with the

“She’s my sister, and f' e

On the 16th. of December 1915
the Unit was inspected by Gener
al Benson, G. O. C., and shortly °°

after orders were received to proceed overseas. |

On, New Year’s Day, 1916, the
Unit sailed from St. John and
arrived in England on the tenth
of. January, and on the evening
of the same day went to Shorncliffe where they took over the
administration of the Military
Hospital.

On the 18th of June the Unit
left for France and operated a
hospital at Le havre and then at
Harfleur for some months. No. 7
then moved to Arqnes near the

Belgian border but were goon .

forced to evacuate the area. In
the town of.Etaples they were

subject to a severe bombing raid
but out of 1547 men buried the
next day only a few were from
No. 7 Unit. They were stationed
at Rouen temporarily and then
at Carmier in a stationary hospital when the Armistice was declared. In March they returned
to England and arrived in Canada in April.

The Unit was commanded by
Lt. Col. John Stewart who was
later transferred to London
where he received the C. B. E.
Ié is on record that the No. 7
Stationary Hospital was. recognized ag the most efficient unit
operating in the war theatre of
North France.

A

NOTICE

All photographs taken by GAZt.TTE photographers at any student function may be purchased
from the photographers at a
reasonable price.

* x 4 * £

“Tt looks like rain’’ said the amliable waiter, serving the demitasse of coffee. “Tastes like it
*oo,” remarked the _ student,
“Bring me a cup of tea.”

T's

ve Niewr, rome |

(NOT MWC ELE

Shooting

By “Bull”

Well, now, this is a new column
and it isn’t a good idea to go
out on a limb on first acquaintance — she might slap your face
— but things keep coming to our
notice, things we can’t overlook.
The other day we were sitting
quietly in our bull pen paring our
toenails when we saw a scrap of
tissue paper four inches square,
on the floor. It was, of all things,
a contribution a contribution from a person with a mind,
a mind that needs house cleaning.
We will. quote from the efforts
of the contributor—

Things That Make Life
Worth Living

“Cheek to cheek (at the Shirreff Hall Formal) were Scott
Morrison and Janet Cameron..’’.
Well, we'll grant you that friend
Cameron has prominent cheeks,
but why should that make life
worth living ?

We just know that every student on the campus will be glad
to hear that “the team of Don
Woodward and Marilyn Hebb is
going along in top form ... and
whats more, he likes her cooking”.

We OUGAT Te
RAVE A

GasP “Te

 

The Man

Its not every Dalhousie co-ed that
can cook, most of them don’t
have time.
Warning To Girls,
Women and My Friend Elsie
This again is a quote from our
contributing friend.. “The Kings
Kollege Kover Boy, Gordon Coles
has been tossing his smile of iate
at the beauteous blonde Zelda
MacKinnon. Watch it gals, you
may be next.” We'll bet Zelda
doesn’t know a thing about all
this.

To anyone who might find it
of interest we make the
announcement that “Ukie Velecoff
is applying himself vigorously +o
female pursuit.” Where is
significance in that ? ,

Glad Tidings To
Weary Mothers Department

We were struck between the
horns with these edifying bit of
news — “Still free, is the everloving James “Milker’” MacLeod.
(Honest, Elsie, I don’t know a
thing about that “Milker” ‘---iness). Rumor has it that he do’ .d
a fine looking chick for the Med
dance, one hour before it started

- such an operator.’’

(Continued on Page 8)

out... Have a Coke

 

COCA-COLA, LTD.

— HALIFAK

Coke = Coca-Cola
“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the registered wade marks which
distinguish the product of Coca-Cola Led,

 

irr ~_ tow erate: ihe i erm 7

   

duh a nt ‘
Tee ee ee ree es
 

ke’ Hight

on

A ie ies taken up on
the campus by Gazette researcher Patsy Pigot, revaeled that the
student opinion is divided as to
whether the Library should re
at main open: during the supper

i ‘ hour. Nineteen students § ap
ce _ proached, thought that the pres
" ent hours were alright as they

 

a wer eJoan Patterson definitely
ale _ stated that the Library should
Ri y Laat be open at supper time: ‘“‘Noa body.studies at that hour. If they
eh study or have classes a] after
get. something to eat, and resi

their weary bones.” Most of the

ae students who considered the prescnt hours as the best, believed

“that students would rather hav
the longer eating hours.

i r “noon, they should go home and

But twenty-five other students
thought that the Library should
be open al lday. Not everyone has
their supper at the same time,
and no one takes two hours to
eat, especially if they eat in Residence. People coming fom Labs
just miss getting there before
it closes, and as a consequence
have to return at night to pick
up their books, often at great
inconvenience. Students who live
on the campus usually have their
meal at six o’clock, or before. H
the library were open when they
finished they would get a whole
hour’s werk done. Eva Powell,
xi speaking for the Hall girls: “It
eh would help a lot if it were open
rf before six-thirty, for if we want
to go out at night, we can go over
and get quite a bit of work done
before we have our fun.”

Bernice Parscns, taking the
part of the Librarians said: “We
vs takt time out to rest, so should
LN they,” but then why could not a
VY | couple of students take over the
ie two hours, replied another co-ed.
All other University libraries remain open all day, and some until
ve eleven o’clock, two and a half
2 hours is not a good night’s work,
so lets see our library open all

day.

ES ee ee
The next thing we know they’!

expect the girls to wear the old

fashioned high laced shoes. And

then their shins will ‘find them
= Ott

 

THE

GREEN LANTERN

RESTAURANT

‘The sign of a good meal’
407-409 Barrington St.

 

_ Student Opinion Divided

Library Hours

A HARD GAMB
(Continued from Page 1)

as the first face appeared at the
head of the locker room stairs —
Tom Belliveau, a tape pasted «ross his nose, a blanket wrapped
around his shoulders, walked
woodenly across the floor and
sat down heavily on a bench, his
head between his hands. Others
follewed in funereal order, Bob
Wilson, Bob MacDonald, big Bert
Cull and Don McKeigan. The
room and its atmosphere became
heavy with the odor of sweating
bodies. Hardly a word was spoken as the weary football players
undressed and tramped to the
shower room.

Cyril Morgan, who played the
hardest game of football in his
life Tuesday, stood by his locker
muttering to himself — “some
day — Ill get that guy Shaw
where I want him — he'll
squirm.”’

 

Doug Jaggs stood perfectly still
by a ping pong table, his helmet
still on his head — slowly, with
a baffled look on his face he sank
to his knees and fell to the floor.
The tension had gone, and he
just passed out. He was alright,
though, and after a few moments
he got to his feet and began to
take off his boots.

Wearily the players stripped
tape and bandage from their
wrists and ankles, and put on
their street clothes. Coach Bill
Burkhart weaved among the lockers talking in a low monotone to

the players. Finally, Burkhart
and Bob MacDonald climbed th2
stairs and walked out of the gym.
As if it was a signal the other
players drifted out of the building, until finally none were left.

Canadian football at Dalhousie
was over for this season. The
team had lost the game #0 St.
Mary’s but in doing so they had
risen in the estimation of the
students, it was a hard game, well
end cleanly fought, and next
year is another year.

 

 

Footwear _

We specialize in footwear
that will fit every college
taste — for either service or

dress wear, for around the}

campus or attending

social

 

functions.

We cordially invite you te
pay us a visit- We present stich
lines as “Hart”, “Slater”
“Murray, and “Ritchie”.

SHANE’S
Shoe Store

397 Barrington St., Halifax

 

A BIG VALUE

IN ;
GOOD READING!
Spirited reporting, exciting
features — done without sensationalism — makes The Halifax Herald and The Halifax
Mail companionable papers.
Their complete, reliable news
coverage helps all to a better
understanding of the world in
which they live.
THE HALIFAX HERALD —
_ | and
THE HALIFAX MAIL
Two of Canada’s Greatest
Newspapers

    

pia) os J LY Sa
ENN V FANS RIT

  

 

 

Dal Students —

A welcome awaits you at

456 Barrington Street,

Where you will find A
complete Music Service

and the finest
Sports Equipment.

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SHOOTING THE MAN
(Continued from Page 7)

Hurray, Hurray Hurray
“Jonny Bustin arose fom his sick
bed (the poor bed) to escort the
winsome Joyce Cameron to the
Shirreff Hali formal.”

Snide Remarks By The Writer

This column marks the return
of a so-called “dirt column” to
the pages of the Gazette. It had
not been intended to carry one,
but we have been over-ruled by
the student body...this is the result. Now, we have been in
retirement — they had a good
crop of corn last year and I have
been enjoying my rest.. “How
green was my silage’ is the title
of a book that I have been dreaming about. Elsie and I are getting
old, but we can find enough time
for this little thing if it pleases
the students. No slight is meant
in our manner of using a contributor’s material — it is just a
means of getting the stuff in here.
Further contributions will be welcomed — just throw them in the
Gazette office, in an envelope
marked “Bull’’.

 

CAMPUS ROUNDUP
(Continued from Page 5)

Since things go in cycles here
probably the popularity \of the

“There's a good type for the fraternity!"
“Perfection . . . check!
opening bid with a Sweet Cap.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

” The purest form in which tobacco can: be smoked” ?

English game will be enhanced
after a few years but there can
be little doubt right now that
the Canadian game in this school
has really caught the institution
by the shirt tail, (N  typographical error here).

friends of George Mattison may
we assure them in closing that
Mr. Mattison is
respects.

normal in all

a a ce ees ee ed

MILLSTONES
(Continued from Page 2)

country I am not liking— I am
printing that he is so and so and
what. And then it comes to me

all these peoples who are not
liking so I say to them it is free
speeches and you can do olso
free speeches if you wanting so.
So, they take me to polices and
am lock in a barred prison and
are feeding bad food and saying
bad things and professor is expelling” me, and prime minister
prosecuting me, and church excommunicating, and Glum Club
they are throwing snakes and
stuff in window. Football team,
they are waiting till I come out. I
going back to Obrottchnna. Free
speeches damn bad things.

 

Let's make our

Friday, November 14th., 1947
Anti Politics Petition
Originated by a minor element

on the campus a petition has been
drawn up and circulated, gathering the-names of a number cf
students who feel that last week’s
issue of the GAZETTE presented
too much politics. Two stories
appeared last week on the fir-t
page.

Commenting on the petition,
Lew Miller, the GAZETTE Ed
itor, declared; “I feel that a petition is highly unmecessary. If
students are dissatisfied with any
particular aspect of the GAZ
ETTE we shall be only too will
ing to conform with their wants.”

Another Edifor declared, “It
must be the Conservatives who
started it. They are likely sore
because they weren’t even mentioned.”’

 

PUBLIC LECTURE

Dr. Ernest Weeks of the De
partment of Reconstruction im
Ottawa will give a talk on “Canada, European Recovery and the
Marshall Plan.’’

The lecture will be held os
Thursday, November 20th., at

_eight o’clock in the Engineering

Common Room.

 

 

7
~

 

*

 
