  

 
    
    

 

   
 

 

Tigers Play
at Antigonish

<

 

 

Vol. 79

USTANGS TO PLAY HERE?

@ ..

  

AZETTE

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

 

 

CAUGHT IN THE ACT — The Gazette’s roving photographer, Dick
Glube, got this picture last night while roaming in the basement
of a university building. The student shown, was apparently in the
act of making a batch of “‘MacBrewgall’s Dew” for the Gazette Gambel when he heard a noise and looked up, just in time to have his
picture taken. Actually, the student is Bob MacDougall, who was
busy’ preparing some cold water paint for coloring the camouflage
net which is to be used foy decorating the gymnasium for the Gazette Gambol which is being held tonight.

GLEE CLUB TO PRESENT
-_DEAR RUTH, Feb. 5, 6 and 7

The Dalhousie “Glee and Dramatic Society, in its third year of
rejuvenation, will present the rollicking comedy Dear Ruth, February 5, 6 and 7 according to a statement by Frank Flemming,

D. G. D. S. president.

In a move to bring the best
Broadway shows to Halifax audiences, the Glee Club in the past
two years has presented You
Can’t Take It With You and last
year’s smash hit, The Man Who
Came To Dinner. In an all out
effort to present a performance
of the same high standard of last
year’s production, the cast of
Dear Ruth have been working
long, hard hours, under the capable direction of H. Leslie Pigot,
director. —

Only role left uncast to date
is that of the sailor, whe rings
down the curtain at the end of
the play in one of the most hilarious moments of the stage and
screen hit.

Already cast are:

Judge Wilkins — Art Hartling
His Wife — Lorna Inness

Ruth — Marg Goode

Miriam — Pat MacKinnon

Bill Seawright — John Trim
Albert Kummer — John Pauley
Martha Seawright — C. Conrad
Chuck Vincent — Dave Graham
Dora (the maid) — Edith Hills

:

 

Gazette To
Print ‘‘Extra”’

For Gambol

 

A special, “ertra’” edition of
the Dalhousie Gazette will be
printed as a novel program for
the Gazette Gambol which is
being held in the gymnasium, tonight, January 23, according to
Lou Miller, editor-in-chief of the
Dalhousie student publication.

Students are urged to be on
hand, both for the fun and games
which are to distinguish the Gam
bol from other society dances
and parties at Dalhousie, and to
obtain a copy of the rare first
edition of the ‘small’? Gazette.
Mr. Miller advises that no copies
cf the “extra” edition will be
available for general distribution
to the student body.

owe ee

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 1948

 

No. 12

 

 
 

‘Css Club

Presents
Junior Prom

Feb. 6,7,8.

 

UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN ONTARIO MAY

SEND FOOTBALL, BASKETBALL TEAMS

FOR EXHIBITION GAMES AT DALHOUSIE

 

I. $. $. CAMPAIGN
TO OPEN FEB. 8

With a minimum objective to
be raised of $3,000, the Dalhousie I. S. S. committee will launch
an all-out campaign for funds
commencing February 5, according to Bernal Sawyer, chairman
vf the committee.

The campaign, in conjunction
with the Canadian Aid to Childen appearl, will have a duation
of three weeks. In Halifax, the
committee operates under the
whole-hearted support of Mayor
J. E. Ahern.

The Campus King contest which
year snared Russ Lowndes, of
Kings, as title-holder, will possibly operate again this season,
the chairman said, and plans are
afoot for a big I. S. S. dance to
be held in the gymnasium. A citywide tag day will be held February 21.

It is further planned to request students to sign over their
caution deposits to the I. §. §.
appeal as was done last year.

Members of the Dalhonusie I.S. S. Committee include Bernal
Sawyer, chairman; Helen Beverideg, secretary; Geoffrey Payzant, member-at-large; Robin MacLean, publicity; Laurie Ellison,
Chairman of Education Department; George and Don Cross,
Ways and means committee.

 

SOCIETY
WANTS
DIRECTOR

The position of dramatics
director for the Arts and Science
society is still open, according to
an announcement by the society
Tuesday.

All persons interested in applying for the position are requested to contact Patsy Pigot,
dramatics manager of the Arts
and Science society as early as
possible.

The society intends to begin
work on their production for the
Connolly Shield competition
which is to take place in* the
near future, and the services of
a dramaties director are urgently
needed.

 

Rumors that the mighty Metrasmen,the Western Mustangs,
might play Dalhousie teams here
next fall were rife around the

“University this week, following

the announcement by John MacCormick, Dalhousie physical director and president of the Halifax Canadian Football League,
that he had been in contact with
Canada’s “Mr. Football,” Johnny
Metiras, University of Western
Ontario physical director.

Metras informed the physical
director last week that he might
be in Halifax this summer to
conduct a summer athletic school
in conjunction with the Provincial Department of Education.
Five days would be devoted to
the teaching of football fundamentals, three days for basketball and two days for track and
field. However, if the Western
Mustangs basketball team is chosen to represent Canada ip the
Olympic games, Metras will not
be able to carry out the proposal.

Metras expressed interest in
progress of the Canadian Football league which was formed in
Halifax last year, and intimated
that arrangements might possibly. be made for Western to play
exhibition games in football and
basketball with the Dalhousie
Tigers.

 

TECH TO GRANT
M. E. DEGREES

Nova Scotia Technical College,
goal of the majority of Dalhousie
engineering students, will, for the
first time in its history, offer a
post-graduate course leadmg to a
Masters Degree in Engineering
this year.

 

The granting of M. E, degrees
has been made possible by the
action of the Provincial Legislature in passing a new act, incorporating the college.

Marshall Williams, graduate in
civil engineering (Honours) is
the only student registered for
the post-graduate course. He is
attending classes jointly at Tech
and Dalhousie University, while
his research is under the direct
supervision of Dr. Smith, Directcr of National Research in the
Maritimes.

GAZETTE
GAMBOL
TONIGHT

 

 

‘Mom and Dad’ Endorsed
By Students, Survey Shows

All students should see the
moving picture “Mom and Dad’’
which is on show at a local
theatre, was the opinion of the
majority of Dalhousie students
approached by Gazette Researcher Patsy Pigot this week.

The opinion expressed by many
students explained that it was a
good start, having hygiene pictures shown to high school pupils
everywhere, but some students
felt that presentation of the controversial film was a money-making seheme. 7

Students fet that the picture
accomplished much, but too much
advertising tended to exagerate
the benefits of the show.

All students agreed that the
film should not be banned or censored. Gerry “Fuzz” Foster
thought it was to be highly recommended. while Ken Coldwell
said it “and more like it, should
be shown to all high school and

college students”.

“Tt should have been shown
at a larger theatre’, said Ken
Phelps, “because the (one in
which it is being presented is
too small. It presents an intelligent appeal for hygiene classes
in the high schools. Some parts
were strong enough to put over
their points.. Yes, it was a good
picture’,

Whether the picture was edicational was felt to be a debatable point. Bob Williams stated
that it was “very educational fo»

the minds of minor stufients”’, . =
but on the other hand Newc

Bloomer said it “collected in one
film what everyone knows anyway”.

On the distaff side, Carol
Eethune thought that the picture
was “educational, and that everyone should see it”, but Jane Rogers stated “they didn’t tell me
anything that I didn’t know already”’.

 
