  

Fi

 

_ D-DAY FOR DAL ARRA

Sa
ee

*

 

iy
’

LO A OES! OS
2

  

4
~
*
\

    
 
 

sh
eS
a

(

 

ys sae ‘ rit ies aS woes
a eee
~ es eg

i eae Fi
r , .
Cat Tea

+ Wh

* * * * %

AZETTE

7 Fr

‘or P
FES a ae eee es epa™ 4,
;

% ke * * *

ne a 4 . 5 I '
5 ‘ " / i
- a : _ {i ,
x : ¢ i
oO :
vs a F eat be par bie x
? aah Rare *~ *; or , . ‘te ’
ei ely onl, ged) . r
m Fi a, SF ! : . # aie
ip. : atolls my a y
= :
; ‘ i x4 ’ — .
: i SF , ¢ '
‘J % , ”
PY ; ,
‘ be ; i
: ~
.
i '
i
2
‘

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Vol. 79

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY,

att

 

 

PRAIRIE SCRIBE

REVIEWS YEAR

1947 has come and gone. For weeks, student writers on university publications had expressed their views on the highlights of
the past twelve months. Perhaps the most adequate of these reviews was one written by Dick Beddoes in the University of Alberta
Gateway. It is re-printed here in its entirety.

AN OBITUARY
Somebody called it the year of
the Big Belly Ache. But now its

. Over, and journalists are writing

its obituary.

1947 .. only yesterday . . and
America moved closer to military
conscription. As in other years,
school girls wore pigtails and
grimy little boys brawled in the
streets, and said: ‘Aw who do ya
think ya are—Jersey Joe Walcott?”’

A New Look caused the hemline to drop to just above the
ankle, and chocolate bars went
up to just below a dime. Scientists gave atomic power a new
look, too, by developing the
atomic cloud, which was cleaner
and swifter than the bomb. Just
before December gave way to
January’s clean slate, atomic debris was dropped over Dogpatch..
and the fate of L’il Abner seemed as important as anything else
to 13 million Canadians.

1947 ... a freedom train was
moving across the U.S. to the
great harbors of New York, while
@ Hollywood character named

- Bob Hope popularized the jargon,

“The only way to give Europeans
& square deal is to give them a
square meal.” .. Canadian farmers figured their square deal
in how much more they’d get
for their pork on the hoof even
as the subsidies went off coarse
grains.
» e s e 2 t

Forever Linda Dirnell was
crowned the ‘Best Undressed
Woman of the Year,” and a Notre
Dame football eleven voted Martha Raye the girl they’d most
like to find in a huddle. The
‘word “atomic” was applied to
blondes, Indianapolis speed racers, and to pitchers with a blazing fast ball.

It was a year of the Big Red
Scare when “hate those Rus
Sians” was the sentiment echoed
around the western world. It didn’t do much good to voice a similar feeling in the east.

“Near You’ finished in top

 

spot on the hit parade, and the
Duke of Windsor sold his memoirs for several thousand bucks.
Connie Mack, in his 82nd year,
continued to manage the Philadelphia Athletics of the American League, and a leading Alberta sports authority said Maury
Van Vliet had_ revolutionized
basketball in Alberta.

A girl made a living by chanting about that Oxydol sparkle on
the radio, and Stanley Baldwin
expired at Bewdley. British war
brides were disappointed about
the gopher ranches they had
been brought to in southern Alberta . . but their soldier spouses
could lie in the sun without a

48-hour pass signed by a major.
* os * > *

1947 . . There were some new
cars back, but the roads were
still cluttered up with old ears
and people looking under the
hoods. White shirts returned the
housewives sported new vacumn
eleaners. Coke machines were

' back, and a local haberdashery

had a suit to fit you.

The campus jargon included
“Lena the Hyena,” “bongo, bongo, bongo,” and “austerity program.” Even as the earth forgot
about Wendell  Wilkie’s One
World, local enthusiast University
of Alberta shattered Dominion
boundaries to enter American
athletic competitions.

Professor Andrew Stewart pulled a Lord Beaverbrook late in
the annum when he helped take
over the publishing of a local
newspaper. And a campus reporker got himself “muggied’’
over Christmas, and thought Time
Out might benefit . . but someBO ob! 02

That was 1947 . . only yesterday. Palestine and India bathed
in blood, and the day the great

American battleship “Oklahoma” .

steamed into Tokyo Bay for V-J
Day was something a long time
ago. Tourists found the fish biting well at the Rocky Mountain
resorts, but the world was
Strangely restless.

JANUARY 30, 1948

 

No. 13

 

 

 

Art Mears—Dalhousie publicity
director (above) announced this
week that he had completed arrangements with ‘Radio Station
C.J.C.H., through the office of
Findlay MacDonald, to have Dalhousie students run the entire
program on Monday, March 8,
from 7 a.m. to midnight.

 

Notice

lwo students are required for
work on the Gazette to fill vacancies caused by the resignation of
members in the Features section.
The students may be either male
oy female, and should be either
in their first or second year at
the University. The posts vacant
are those of Literary Editor and
Associate Editor in the Features
section. Applicants should present themselves in person at the
Gazette Office on Tuesday or
Thursday afternoons before twothirty; ask for the Features editor.

* * He * ok

Dalhousie Tigers’ edition of
the Gold and Black varsity hockey and basketball squads will he
against the loyal opposition from
Acadia,

Dal en@ Acadia will take to
the ice at the Forum at 2 p.m.
Saturday, and tthe basketball
teams will meet in the Dal gym
in the evening.

LS

The Mount Allison Hockey
team, playing its first game of
the season, defeated Amherst in
a ragged game on the Mt. A.
openair rink.

 

DALHOUSIE CHESS CLUB
— — Wheels Within Wheels — —

of * *

 

 

*

Ba

STUDENTS TO

 

RUN PROGRAM

 

Dalhousie students will take the air for an entire day, if present plans are succesfully carried out, according to Art Mears, Dalhousie University publicity director. Early last week he disclosed
to the Gazette that Dr. A. E. Kerr, University President, had approvedplans for students to take over the broadcast facilities of
radio station C. J. C. H. from 7 a.m. to midnight, Monday March 8,

the day before Munro Day.

 

No Corsages

For Dal Girls

(Late Bulletin)—Following a
general House Meeting in Shirreff Hall last Tuesday evening,
the girls voted unanimously that
for the ensuing formals of this
term they will forego corsages
and ask their escorts to contribute, instead, $1.00 or more to
the ISS Fund.

Male escorts may apply at the
GAZETTE Office on Studley, or
at the canteen at Forrest where,
in return for their contribution
they will receive a small insignia
which the girl may wear in place
of a corsage. f

 

To Present

Dear Ruth

With the final casting of the
inimitable Ukie Veleoff in the
role of the sailor, and iast minute ironing out of script changes, Dalhousie’s Glee and Drama
Society were well on the road
last week to completion of preparation of the broadway hit, the
eomedy Dear Ruth.

Nightly rehearsals under the
direction of Leslie Pigot have
done much to bring the cast to
a high standard in the persentation of their lines, and it is

anticipated that the play will be .

an eminent success.

The cast includes :—
Judge Wilkins Art Hartling
His Wife—Lorna Inness
Ruth—Marge Goode
Miriam—Pat MacKinnon

Plans had been drawn up between Aft Mears and Findlay
MacDonald, a Dalhousian who
holds a senior executive position
with the station. The program

will be appropriately named
“Dalhousie Day”’.

In order that there will be no
hitch in the program, a large
staff of radio personal will be.
required from among the student
body. Positions are open for manager, program director, commerlal director, production manager,
chief engineer, seven announcers, sportseasters, chief announcer, librarian, head of the continuity department, three seript
writers for the continuity department.

The program will include a
play, a debate, musical selections
by the Glee Club Chorus, addresses by the President and various leaders of campus affairs,
sports features.

Unique in radio history in
Canada, the program will score
a “first” insofar as student radio
programs are concerned, according to the publicity director. Oth€r universities have programs on
the air, but it is not thought
that any student body has ever
run the entire program of a large
radio station.

All students interested in filling any of the positions are urged to contact Art Mears in the
publicity office on the stage in
the gym, or to leave their name,
address, phone number, .and type
of work they desire, in the Gazette office, as soon as possible,

nae ETEEEeaSESSENEESNSussiniemmenmneeeasie smnnat
Bill Seawright—John Trim

Albert Kummer—John Pauley
‘Martha Seawright—C. Conrad
Chuck Vincent—Dave Graham
Dora (the maid)—Edith Hills.
The Sailor—Ukie Velcoff

ha A a ee 1

 

  
 
 
 

i
iM

 

 
 

 

4

 

j
|
|

|
|
|

Iie
“

a.
—_ a

 
  
 
  
    
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  

‘ ie
at

 

?

‘In voting 14 to 4 for affiliation,
for students of different countries to become acquainted irrespect
ie CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

* * * * *
Editor-in-Chief
. LEW MILLER
Mi : Managing Editor Business Manager
BRUCE LOCKWOOD AL. RUBIN
; . me ; Nas Sports Features
JACK LUSHER BOB TUCK ART MOREIRA

! Page Editors
PETER MINGO, JOE LEVISON, J. TRIM, SHERBERNE McCURDY

“i _ Associates
STAN FITZNER, ERIC RICHTER, KEN PHELPS, FRAN DOANE

Circulation eed
MURIEL RITCHIE, MANAGER, D. SADOFSKY, JAN ROBERTSON,
JERRY JOHNSON, A. de CARTERET, BEV HUNTINGTON.

Photographers.... DANNY SOBERMAN, DICK GLUBE, E. RICHTER

MIRIAM GLUBE, BETTY THOMPSON

Proof Readers .......-.-::s--+-::
Assistant Business Manager -.---:--+-::-s:ssssrrsrrrren ROBIN MacLEAN
Exchange Manager .......--.--:::scscssresesestesennesneness nents PETER SEDERIS

Reporters wt

PATSY PIGOT, ALF HARRIS, BOB McQUINN, PHILIP SIMON—

Dent Society.

Vol. 79 Friday, January 30, 1948 No. 13

LIBERTY FOR STUDENTS, TOO

 

“The following editorial was printed
in the Ottawa Citizen.”

Voices have been raised in Canada in condemnation of the decision of the National Federation of Canadian University Students
to join the International Union of Students which meets at Prague
and includes representatives from universities in countries with semi.

Communist governments.

Canadian students who went to &n international gathering at

Prague last summer found the event interesting and stimulating.
their federation feels it desirable

ive of politics.

Dr. A. E. Kerr, president of Dalhousie University, defending
the students’ decision, makes it clear that the federation is an independent organization whose views and opinions it is not the business of a university to control.

Championing academic freedom as this newspaper has lately
emphasized it, Dr. Kerr declares: “It is not in the authentic university tradition, especially in the democratic countries, to endeavor
té interfere with freedom of speech or action on the part of students within the wide kimits permitted by the reasonable requirements of discipline. On the contrary, universities have encouraged
to the truth of things and to

students to satisfy themselves as
bring a critical. judgement to bear on all disputed issues.’

Admirably said. Obviously a vefusal to allow students to join
an international body because it has some Communist members
would logically involve Canada’s refusal to join the United Nations
for exactly the same reason.

If Canadian students cannot hold their own in discussions with
those who debate a different ideology, then the relevant conclusion
is that the universities have failed in the duty of teaching them

to think for themselves.

EDITOR'S MAILBOX

for a claim to the\ Holy Land,
cur poor ancestors had been born
in Palestine for the
thousand years or so. "nuff said!

“You must make way fok an
alien people’, Mr. Blofield next
states in holding the Arab case,
the people who are “after all doing little more than fight for
thei; birthright’. Surely Mr. Blofield was just a slight bit absentminded, in making such remarks,
otherwise he would be aware of
certain historical facts, which,
I must admit, are quite insignificant when compared with such
authoritative statements, but
nevertheless, facts which I man
 

 

Dear sir,

With reference to the letter
by L. V. Blofield, who “is neither a Fascist or a Werewolf” but
is obviously a misinformed student of political science oy even
a wialiciously-informed student of
persecution with all its subtle
arts, some of which he has appareully acquired, whether
intentionally or otherwise.

Biofield’s Knowledge of history
is accurate as far as it goes, but
unfortunately, it doesn’t go far
enough. Historically, it f a matter of opinion as to whose ancestors give modern people the

past five

right to claim the Holy Land, ased to discover after diligent
although a Jewish bid, on such  ccarching.
grounds, would go back a little }
further than the poor Arabs wh» The so-called Arab birthright

“by accident of birth, had been dates back the great total of a
born in Palestine as had your
ancestors for the past two thousand years’, Using such a basis

bout 80 years, as far as I can

make it, since prior to 1917, it /

is rumoured that a strange race

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

of people, the Turks, probably
unknown to Mr. Blofield, are
said, by some writers of admittedly little consequence, to have
been the proprietors of Palestine and all the other lands of
Arab birth in the region.

Furthermore, when Britain
made her promises, both to Jews
and to Arabs around 1919, a
certain gentleman, known as
Prince Feisal, who was merely
one of the top leaders of the
Arab world, made a statement
and I fear he failed to send a
copy to Mr. Blofield, which statement might have clarified the
Arab attitude towards the birthright situation.

Prince Feisal stated, referring
to the Jewish people-- “We welcome our cousins home’’, So much
for. Mr. Blofield’s birthright.

Has Mr. Blofield heard of the
MeMahon promise
Arabs when England
give the Arabs a homeland, namely Arabia, ather places
such as Syria, etc. When
England, through her representative, McMahon, drew up the agreement with the Arabs, this
agreement expressly stated, in
terms understood by even the
simplest of people, that the Arabs
were NOT to get Palestine, NOR
Transjordan for that mattet,
which they now have.

made to the

agreed toa

among
Iraq,

Mr. Blofield’s concern over the
American Indian, I must confess,
deeply moved me, and showed his
true democratic spirit. I, along
with Al Capp (his recent protrayal of the American Indian)
in the L’il Abner strip) feel he
has a legitimate claim and am
quite willing to support such a
claim if he is prepared to press
it.

Then again, Mr. Blofield pro
bably just got his ENGLISH
mixed up when he confused ’reservations’ and ‘ghettos’. After

all, we have his word for it that
he is neither a fascist nor a werewolf, and who else but such characters could make such a statement without malicious intent.
I sincerely believe Mr. Blofield
let his ENGLISH slip slightly,
nothing more than that.

With reference to the power
of the Jewish press, I need but
refer Mr. Blofield to the pages
of his daily Halifax newspapers.

Mr. Blofield is so concerned
with the the Arab
birthright, perhaps he might find
a small space in
justify the
birthright, if
of 5000 sq. miles of
After ll, 37,000 sq. miles of
Transjordan were completely liberated by
while

harming of

heart to
the Jewish

his
claim of

only to the extent
Palestine.

12,000 Jewish soldiers,
main Arab
strength turned against the
Allies. Surely the Jews
at least a

the organized
was
deserve
reservation, which is
we are offered, in the
form of a partioned Palestine.
Remember, Mr. Blofield, fourteen Arab only

liberal leaders, who have spoken

about all

liberals, their
in Ypposition, to Arab control of
i’alestine, have’ been assassinated for their opinions, favouring
the

And remember, Mr. tuwfield,
it Was merely the Ureek Catholic Archbishop of Lebanon (rum
'
Jews,

cured to contain a tew Arabs)
who. stated--- ‘‘the fascist moslems who would take over Pal
estine represent Aggression; the

Jewish people represent Civilization and we weleome them to
Palestine”

Do likewise, Mr. Blofield: de

likewise !!

DON HARRIS
(Continued on page 7)

es _— — _—*
Te Pee ee, Poe Cee | te ee te ae mth
' 4 FER on ft #4 LEN ES PRLa ean eee Mee ey |

Friday, January 30, 1948

DELICIOUS DARK CHOCOLATE
wilh ROASTED ALMONDS

ee

 

‘Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S: Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S, DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

 

 

   

 

Visit the new WILLIS store — Attractively set up depart
  

ments featuring —

| BOOKS - RECORDS - MUSIC - ELECTRIC APPLIANCES
| PIANOS

Willis Piano Co. Limited

| 127 Granville St. (at Duke),
| HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

Huiversity

—_

Dalhousie

Halifax. Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction
a

Degrees of:

Bachelor of Arts

Bachelor of Science

Bachelor of .Commerce

Bachelor of Music

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmac

Master of Science Mining Geology i
Pre-Professional Courses ,

ep

Diplomas in:
Ling neering
Education
Musie
Pharmacy

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

re Be Ue, -¢ se about S2LU_00 a veor

a Pe ta acy tse ae ee average about $160.00 a gear

y valuable s arships, on entrance and through the cvurses

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations h Id i

February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for H =

our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and Histosh
The Professional Faculties Ae

se * ar)
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

in the annrea wi
=A ww bento

inclasive Fees

 

 

Residences

Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence.. Other men students live in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service

students,

Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information write te THE REGISTRAR.

 
  

ve
r

ge

im Ky A Piha
es a sn
ote ath .

Men

+

( i)

    
   
   

H pus i

BA iy
i ay partys “AVEl
ys

 

Vol. 79°

MUNRO DAY PLANS REVEALE

GAZETTE

 

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

HALIFAX, N.S., FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 1948

 

Dal Students:
Interested
In Ham Club

Tom Clahane (VEISP) and
Gordon Pierce (VEIBK), engineering students at Dalhousie, are
interested in forming a Dalhousie
“Ham” radio club, they told a
Gazette reporter Wednesday.

They have been in contact
with ham radio operators in Universities in North America and
in Europe, and have found a
growing interest in Dalhousie,
and Dalhousie students. Hams at
other Universities want all the
information about Dal] that mer
can get.

In the past term, Tom “and
‘Gord have contacted = several
ham stations at other colleges,
including VEIRK (Tom Creelman) at University of New Brun.
swick; a law student at Erlanden
University in the American zone
of operations in Germany, and an
electro-chemistry student at Prague.

All students interested in the
organization are urged to see
either Tom or Gord in the engineering building—any time of day
will do, they say.

 

CORSAGES TO GO
IN DAL FORMALS

Appearing more regularly on
posters advertising Dal formal

dances are the words: NO CORS
AGES. Typical of a defence measure against the rising cost of
living, this is a problem that is
being met in other Canadian Universities.

Considering that an
will be made for little children
‘starving in Europe, students at
Victoria College, U of T, have
decided to make an appeal to men
not to present the usual corsage
but to place a contribution with
the committee responsible for
raising funds in the coming drive.

Supported by letters from
many well-wishing ladies on the
campus this idea seems to be a
step in the right direction. The
lady should be content with mere.
ly being escorted to the dance,
was the comment of a number of
Vic males.

 

MARDI GRAS BALL
TO BE HELD SOON

The annual Mardi Gras Ball,
sponsored by the Newman Club
ef Dalhousie University, will be
held in the ballroom of the Nova
Scotian Hotel at 8.30 p.m., Feb.
10, acoording to an announcement by Jack Boudreau, chair
o ‘man of 1 th Vaya committee. My

appeal

~

MARGE GOODE
— Dear Ruth —

 

CAMPUS KING TO
BE SELECTED BY
1. S&S. S. COMMITTEE

 

Following the pattern establish
ed in last year’s ISS drive a
Campus King contest will be held
by ISS during }their campaign
this year, according to Bernal
Sawyer, Chairman of the Dalhousie Committee of ISS.

The system of voting, familiar
to all students who were at Dal
last year, will be based on the
amount of contributions received
by the various girl’s societies.
Last year Kings’ girls from Alexandra Hall were successful in
their support of Russ Lownds for
king—and a good king he was.

The heads of various societies
who desire to sponsor a candi.
date for king this year are requested to contact Lew Miller
prior to February 7.

 

SOCIAL SUCCESS
FINANCIAL FLOP

The annual Gazette Gambol has
fallen by the wayside, according
to reports by the Gazette Dance
Committee, Robin MacLean and
Bob MacDougall.

They reported that after bookkeeping of a grade “A” style
had been applied to receipts and
expenditures the Gazette was in
the red to the extent of $33.00.

Reason for the loss was blamed
on the poor date on which the
dance was held. DVA students,
who form 50% of the. student
body, have not received a pay
cheque since’ shortly before
Christmas, and as a result, their
activities have been somewhat

curtailed of late.
Ree

pletion, and a good time is
guaranteed for all. Don Warner’s
orchestra, which has been rehearsing several new novelty
numbers and appropriate Mardi
Gras music, will be on hand for

- gala occasion. :

 

Beard-Growing Contest To

 

 

i ee ve ea K " Pee
‘ A ; Ne
pit eng 7 Ser Pet yee ye

feel fi, i
: MF read

          

 

 

Be New Feature On Program

 

INCREASED FEES
MOOTED AT MCGILL

Prospects of ccurtatled extraeurricular activities 0, the McGill

‘campus as a result of a cumul
ative financial crisis in the Students’ Society were brought to
light recently in a statement issued by the Financial Committee
of the Students’ Executive Council.

“Kither we increase student
fees by two dollars,” chairman
of the Financial Committee said,
“or we shall be forced to cut
student activities.”

Main cause of the problem,
the statement continued, is the
fact that the Council, because
of increased activities, has been
spending more than it takes in
annually, despite all attempts to
cut down on expenditures.

As an example, it was pointed
out that the costs of publication
of the McGill Daily have risen
in many cases to one-third over
and above original costs,

It is rumoured that similar difficulties are being experienced
on the Dal campus, and what
with the increase of student activity at Dal and the birth of new
organizations, the Council is, undoubtedly, faced with a problem,

 

ENGINEERS BALL
AT HOTEL FRIDAY

 

The annual Boilermakers’ Ball,
sponsored by the Engineering
Society of Dalhousie University,
will be held Friday, Jan. 36, in
the main ballroom of the Nova
Scotian Hotel at 9. p.m., according to an announcement by the
society.

Hugh Campbell, Dave Parsons
and Don MacKeigan form the
committee of three who have
been appointed to make alrangements for the dance.

Music will be provided by Don
Warners” orchestra, with Maynard Taylor doing the vocals.

Chaperones for the occasion
will be Prof. and Mrs. H. R.
Theakston, Prof. and Mrs. W. H.
Bowes and Prof. and Mrs. A. G.
MacKenzie.

Dress will be semi-formal, no
flowers. Cost of tickets has been
cut down to a minimum, in order
to attract a large number of engineering students, and students
from.other faculties,

nie es
THE GAZETTE VISI¥s

GLEE CLUB

eee page 6

 

raat Mar lt)
> pea ek, oe ee *,
A ie ee. Nt

Initial plans for the forthcoming Munro Day fiesta were announced this week by Jack
Boudreau, head of the Munro
Day committee.

An innovation of the program
will be the beard-growing contest. The student with the longest beard on Munro Day will be
awarded a suitable prize—and it
is understood that the prize will
be valuable, not just a mere
token. All students interested in
entering the beard-growing contest are informed that they must
register, clean-shaven, at the
Gazette office not later than 5
p.m. Feb, 6. This is to cut down
the chances of any hopeful hairy
man gaining a head start on
ether contestant. It is understood that Gerry “Fuzz’’ Foster
is favored to take the prize, but
there should be a dark horse
here or there.

All societies on the campus
are warned that this year the
societies themseives will be responsible for picking their candidates for the Munro Day Queen
competition. The names of such
competitors must be submitted to
the Munro Day Committee on or
before Feb. 21. In choosing their
candidates, societies are to consider (1) Physical attractiveness,
(2) Personality, (3) Academic
achievement and (4), Popularity.

The following societies are
eligible to enter contestants in
the Munro Day Queen show.
Arts and Science—two candidates; Engineering—one candidate; Commerce—one candidate;
Medicine—one candidate; Law—
one candidate; Pharmacy—one
candidate; Dentistry—one candidate; Pine Hill—one candidate;
Kings—one candidate. Due to de.
lays and numerous events to be
presented on the program, only
10 candidates will be allowed.
Fraternities are to be represented by their respective societies.

Members of the Munro Day
Committee appointed this year

are: Jack Boudreau, Chairman;
Bernie Creighton, Bob Ward,
Bob MacDougall, Marie Milton

and Joyce Cameron.

Bob Ward and Boh MacDougall have been assigned the task
of writing the ‘script for the
evening Students are duly
end warned that anv
thing and probably will,
happen.

PRESIDENT TO
ADDRESS S. C. M.

show.
solemnly

 

 

 

Dr. A. E. Kerr, President of
Dalhousie University, will be the
guest. speaker of the S.C.M. at
the weekly open house to be
held Sunday evening, in the CommOn Room of the Mens’ Residence at 8.45 p.m.

i g 7 e
u Wa f ft { las oo: rave ei i pepe ie 1s
i tw ‘ A iy Qo ¥ ia i .
bw tf) ee Se ig ee Ae ed ee he uy, Akay
ty eee 29 Sa Pe eg % me aa A Sahat: ents atal >

 

MEDICAL SCHOOL
RATED “GRADE A”

A “Grade A” rating for the
Dalhousie University Medical
Faculty has been confirmed recently, rating the Medical School

in company with the greatest un-.__

iversities on the continent, according to a joint survey conducted by the Association of
American Medical Colleges and ~
the Rockefeller Foundation.

The rating, held by Dalhousie
for many years, is reaffirmed on
the basis of an intensive survey
made last October over a period
of several days. The survey had
been requested by Dalhousieauthorities.

All department heads of the
Medical Faculty were interviewed, teaching methods studied,
space was assessed, equipment
and personal attention available
to each student was assessed,
laboratories and hospitals affiliated with Dalhousie were inspected and all faculty records were
studied.

The report contained high
praise for the Medical Faculty.
At the same time it recommended
increased current and capital expenditures, although the faculty
budget had been doubled since
the previous survey.

 

POSITIONS OPEN
FOR 1948 GRADS

 

Upwards of 100 graduating
university students are expected
to be added to the staff of Can
adian Industries Limited, this
year, according to the C.1.L. 1948
Bulletin, recently published. A

wide variety of positions are

open and applications will be re
eived from students of most university conrses,

The largest number of men are
regqnired from Chemical and
Mechanical Engineering courses
with probably 20 men from

other Engineering courses
whe have a broad interest in En
¥ineering rather than in specializing. There are a total of about
%0 openings for graduates of
Honour Chemistry, Commerce,
Business Administration or Agriculture.

Graduates are paid a starting
rate which is comparable to that
being paid for similar work in
other industries. Special consideration will be given, and increased initial renumeration paid,
for summer experience in fields
kindred to C.I.L. operations,

Application forms may be obtained from professors, and a
booklet “The University Graduate
and Canadian Industries Limited”

will shortly be available from
professors.

 

    
 

, eeaeion = }

 
  

 

 

a beautv—Malloy worked his way

REPORT

BY BOB TUCK Cte

The hockey Tigers made their debut at the Forum last Saturday afternoon when they defeated an All-Star team picked from
the local Suburban, North West Arm and Industrial Leagues. The
All-Stars also had Mac Cochran in goal. Dal was without O’Neill,
Robertson and MacMillan, but the rest of the squad put on a good
show against the Intermediate Leagues’ best. Particularly noticeable
was the fine performance of Paul Lee. Paul scored four goals, set
up two others, and was always in the right spot at the right moment. He looks like the most improved performer on the team. Murray Malloy also played good hockey. The one goal he scored was
into the clear, sped over the
blue-lineé, and movéd Cochran out of position with a nice shift as
he came in on him. On the biue-line, Kingsley Mont dealt out
some stiff body checks, draping several characters on the boards
as they contested the right of way with him. Very often it is not
the big bruisers who can hand out the body punishment.

% x * * x

 

 

The game up at the Forum was waged under primeval conditions; the dressing rooms were not heated, and there wasn’t room
enough to swing a cat, let alone a hockey stick. The reason for
this was that there was a big dirty mound of earth in the middle
of what someday, it is hoped, will be a floor. This all quite alright,
except that we can’t see how it is supposed to be a bargain at
$15.00.

oF * * + Ls

A local sports columnist, writing in ene of the city dailies,
devoted a bit of his column to the Dal hockey team the other day.
It was all very much appreciated, except that he was a bit off on
seme of his information, and put several fellows on the hockey team
that haven’t even turned out, and left off some who have definitely
elinched berths. He must have been going on pure conjecture when
he got himsif involved in Ron Gywnne-Timothy’s family tree. He
had Tim down as the son of a former well known Maritime track
and field performer who coached H.C.A. and K.C.S. Rugby teams.
Actually he was thinking about Tim’s uncle. Except for all this it
was a fine bit of publicity. Perhaps it was too much strain on the
columnist, because his column that particular day contained nothing

taken from sports information sources outside the Maritimes.
* ® & om s

DISA & DATA: The U.N.B. hockey team won their first start

. ’ as they defeated Fredericton Capitals at the N.B. capital by a score
MOK) Orb anssibicees Acadia defeated Windsor Maple Leafs in a game play
 
     
  

>

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ST. F. X. TAGS DEFEAT
ON DALHOUSIE 55-34

MARITIME CHAMPS

 

 

 

 D.G.A.C.

By Bev. Huntingdon

 

 

Swimming appears to be a nil
commodity this year - too bad
we aren’t veterans (alright, stop
snickering with those knowing
eleams in your eyes). If archery
keeps on at the pace that the
arrows are getting smashed, D.

G.A.C. will probably be throwing °

purse, strings and all,
as it’s pretty hard to keep a purse

(Continued on page eight)

JUNIORS DEFEAT
WANDERERS 36-25

AS Nea

The Dal Junior team staggered
to another victory last Saturday
night in the Dal gym, as they
downed the Wanderers, 36 to
25, in another game in the Halifax Junior League.

away its

 

The Wanderers played a rough,
agressive contest that kept the
Tigers completely off balance
throughout the contest. Without
the help of the Varsity members,
the Tiger junors had to play this
game all by themselves and were
nearly lost at times. The Juniors
have not learned how to cope
with the rugged attack. and it
was clearly shown in this latest
outing.

The Tigers never did give the
impression that they were going
to lose the game, however, as
they always had a fairly comfort
POWER-PACKED

- Friday, January 30, 1948

 

 

OVERCOME EARLY DAL LEAD TO WIN

 

With hopes riding high, the Dal Varsity invaded Antigonish
last Saturday to meet the Xaverians in the opening game of the
intercollegiate basketball season, Then, after getting off to an early
lead in the first half, the Tigers found themselves up against a
classy outfit that came to life and walloped Dal, 55 to 34. It was
a very disappointing performance for the Tigers in view of their
recent upset triumph over the flashy Dal Grads. But St. F. X. was
red-hot, and after holding a halftime advantage of 29 to 18, the
home side steadily built up their lead throughout the second per
iod, and coasted to victory.

C.B.C. DOWNS DAL
IN JUVENILE GAME

 

The Inckless Dal Juvenile team
dropped another game in the Halifax Juvenile League at the Dai
gym last Saturday night. This
time the Catholic Boys Club
licked them, 25-15, in a looselyplayed, foul-packed contest.

The Tigers did show early
strength in this game as they
got off to an early lead, and
held a 10-to-9 advantage at the
half. But in the sécond half the
Boys Club, paced by Shea and
Garter, began to hit consistently,
and it proved too much for the
Tigers. The _ visitors’ defense
stiffened in the last period, too,
as the Tigers could garner only
two field goals and one foul shot
in the second half. Meanwhile,
the Boys Club was operating
more smoothly in the second
stanza and it wasn’t long before
they had practically clinched the
game.

The game was played at a
fairly fast pace and was a bit
rugged in spots. However, Dal
showed all its drive in the opening ten minutes while the Xaverjians continued to press the atack all high. Crisp in their
playmaking and steady on the
defense, the victors clearly deserved their triumph, and were
easily the superior team. The Tigers, way off on their shooting,
just couldn’t match strides in
any department of play after the
cpening few minutes.

The outstanding performer in
the contest was St. F. X.’s Lorne
Whelan. Not only did this flashy
performer score 23 points to top
all the scorers, but he played a
steady, heads-up floor game also.
Don Woodward, rapidly rounding
into a top-notch performer paced the Tiger scorers with 12
markers, and was the pick of the
Dal players. Propper, however,
took second place in the scoring
parade,, as he dropped in 19
markers for the winners.

All in all, it was a very sad
night for the Dal hoopsters, and
hard practice sessions will de
ed in that Valiey town last Saturday. Since the Valley League sched- able lead. The attack of the vic
ule was rearranged, the Acadians have come up with two wins. tors was not steady, neverthe- An oddity of this contest was (Continued on Page 8)
Under the original schedule, Acadia played only half the number less, and there were times when the fact that [an Morrison, Wol
of games as the other teams in the league, getting 4 points for the Redmen, obviously inferior ™an, and Goldman combined to

each win they turned in. However, up until a week or so ago, they to the Tigers, took charge of the do all the Dal scoring in the

hadn't done too well, and Windsor was out in front by a fairly game. The rugged play of the first half, while Ralph MacKay

comfortable’ margin. Then the Berwick entry in the league dropped Wanderers proved to be very and Wolfson were the only two

“Out because the opposition was too stiff. Acadia immediately de
manded 8 points for the two games they still had scheduled with

Gifficult for the Gold and Black
to cope with, and the c6ntest re
scorers for the Tigers in the last
half.

' Berwick. The league moguls found it inconceivable that a team solved itself into one of many Shea and Carter were the outshould be credited with 8 points without even taking to the ice, fouls. 26 fouls were called dur- standing players on the court
umd the schedule was started all over again. The team in last place ing the game, 14 against the los- for either team, and between

i higher standing on the season’s play,

(Acadia) is now on equal footing with the teams having earne®
and anything can, and is
happening. It’s amazing the stunts these people ‘can pull off.

,

 

ers. Jimmie Mahon, the big gun
in the attack of this team, fouled
out during the second half, and

themselves alone they scored en
(Continued on Page 8)
eS EEeteneEneNeS

Sth ge this hurt Dal’s chances. i
Each squad tallied fifteen
Dal Boxers Take 5 Bouts points in the second half after IN FINE WATCHES
the winners had taken a 21-19

In Exhibition Matches

 

lead at the half.
Herb Rosenfeld of the winners
paced the scorers with 14 points.

IT’S CHALLENGER
It’s accurate
It’s beautiful

A boxing Aa was staged, in Following the match between Jimmie Mahon bagged 11 mark- It’s long-lasting
the lower gym. Monday night by Burgess and MacGillvray, Billy ers while Healy meshed § to top
| the D.A.AC. iniwhich the Dal. Hoare of H. M. C. S. Scotian the losers. It’s not expensive
- housie mittmen took five match- g@2imed an unaminotss decision The line-ups: Dal-Rosenfeld 14,

i
Canada’s Best Buy in Watches |

by es out of the six they particip- cver lanky “Fleas” MacQuarrie Mahon 11, Palnick 3, MacDonald
zt ated in. In addition there were °f Dal. This bout was the most 2, Beckett 2, Marshall 2, Mace- HENRY BIRKS & SONS
; matehes in which Da! boxers were colorful of the evening. Dal- Connell 2, Wanderers - Healy 8, LIMITED

mct involved, one an @xhibition ousie boxers won the two final
Spatring match between twepro-, ‘shts as Warren Conrad K.O’ed
fecsionals. Kid * Howard ard Monty Seegar of Wanderers in
est Paris, a. bout. in

which the second round, and Al Kenty

Beaton 6,
Jordan 2,

Paton 4, B. Smith 4,
C. Smith 1, Suteliffe.

 

 

American Gem Society

Registered Jeweller,

 

“EXPORT”

CANADA'S FINEST

 

 

+ Bryce Burgess ‘of Wanderers used his looping right hand to 4 NOVA Ga 4 'F Halifax, N. S. eae e | eG 2
outpoin’ed Tony MacGillvray of ain a firs|,round T. K. O. over a ; oe a 7s re H. M. C. S. Seotian, and an ex- George Ker: .of' Dalhousie. In “DANCING a" * i dese,
hibikion between Alvin Upshaw this last bout, Mal could hardly
and Hurbert Upshaw. lose. SATURDAY ,

   
 

In the first amateur match,
Bernie Knickle of Dal knocked
out Don Howard of Stadacona
in the third round. He had had
the sailor on the floor for eight
and nine counts previously. Ace
Furlong, Dal, put John Paul,
H. M. C. S. Scotian, to sleep in
the. fifth round after having
floored him twice in the ‘first.
Earl Fraser, wearing ‘the Gold

In the amateur matches, Jack
MeKenna acted as refree, with
Don Kerr acting as timer) and
Prof. Spencer Ball and Majer
Allister MacKinnon were judges

In order to stage more cards
of this nature, a greater turneut among Dalhousie boxing enthuhiasts is required, especially
in the heavyweight division, and
divisions under the welterweight

NIGHT”?  } “jae

 

“Don Warner
Orchestra’”’

9 p.m. to midnight
$3.00 per couple

will
and

 

THE MARITIME LIFE

ry °
a hy not plan youy future so that it
oe free from financial restrictions
embarassments!

THE MARITIME LIFE has just the
Jlan for YOU. ~

Let BOB HART show you the advantRe, 285 of buying “MARITIME”, to protect

eyour future,

A. R. FRASER, C. L. U.
Manager Nova Scotia Branch

Green Lant di : 5
and Black, gained a split decis- antern Building, Halifax, N. §,

   

 

 

| ce BOB HART tr
don over Jack Rizes of Stadacons. °"** Supper optional elephone 83-8745
Gut = —-= “ me Se = EEE j ‘ t
 

; | ey Friday, January 30, 1948

VETS TAXI EDGE
DALHOUSIE 7-5

The Dal hockey Tigers, playing
without Willie Robertson, Rosie
MacMillan and Windy O'Neill,
dropped their second start of the

‘season to Vets Taxi by a score

of 7-5 at the ‘Forum Tuesday
night. Although Dal was outplayed, the game was in doubt untii
the final minute of play.

The Tigers alternated goaltenders, with Timothy, Leslie and
Mac Cochran appearing: in that
order. Outstanding for Dal was
Bob Knickle, who had just finished playing for Wanderers before the game started. Bob sniped two goals and an assist. Brown
had also played for Wanderers
previous to the Dal ‘exhibition
match.

SUMMARY

First Period;

1. VETS TAXI __ C. Bracket
(Burns)

2. VETS TAXI — Iceton (Surrette)

38. VETS TAXI—Mestre
penalties—Hartnett shots,
by Dal 4, by Vets Taxi, 9
Second Period;

4, DAL—Brown (Knickle)

56. VETS TAXI—Nelson

6. VETS TAXI—Hartnett

7. DAL—Reardon (Feron)

8. DAL—Knickle (Brown, Lee)

' penalties—Iceton shots, by Dal
10, by Vets Taxi 13
Third Period;

9. DAL—Knickle (Lee) |

10. VETS TAXI — C. Bracket

(Burns)
11. DAL—Feron
12. VETS TAXI —TIceton (Sur
PAUL LEE

eS
Shown above is Paul Lee, outstanding Dal athelete, and for
ward on the Hockey Tigers. Paul
scored four goals in an exhibition game Saturday, and picked
up an assist against Vets Taxi
Tuesday night. Lee is probably
the most improved player on the
team, and great things are expected of him in the coming Intercolbegiate campaign.

All those interested in taking
part in the amateur fights down
at the Wanderers clubhouse next
Thursday night, contact the boxing manager.

Qe eee
rette, Purcell) penalties—C.
Bracket, Frazee shots, by Dal
6, by Vets Taxi 16

As far as I’m concerned it
means a tobacco you can smoke all
day long. That my friend is the real test! 4 ‘
... Can you smoke your brand all day
long and come up fot more? If not,
then try PICOBAC! For a cool, easy
packing, smooth burning, fragrant
smoke, there is nothing better.

Picobac is the pick of the Burley Crop, grown in
sunny southern Ontario.

GET SOME TO-DAY!

icobac

The Pick of Pipe Tobaccos

 

 

- TIGERS GAIN SPLIT
IN FIRST TWO STARTS |

 

HOGKEY TIGERS WIN
FROM ALL STARS

The wraps were taken off the

1948 edition of the Dalhousie
Hockey Tigers at the Halifax
Forum Saturday, as they downed
an All-Star team picked from
several City Intermediate
‘Leagues by a score of 12-7. The
game was more in the nature of
a practice, with the emphasis on
wide-open play without a great
deal of back-checking being manifested. Dalhousie played without
Windy O’Neill, Willy Robertson,
and Rosie MacMillan.

The best individual performance for either team was that of
Paul Lee, who scored four goals
and assisted in two others.

For the All-Stars, the Bracket
brothers, MacManus and McCoombs carried the bulk of the
play. Dalhousie goaltender, Mac
Cochran, was between the pipes
for the All-Stars on a lease-lend
agreement, and despite the large
score, turned in a good performance. Ron Timothy, in the Dal
goal, made several spectacular
saves on break-aways.

SUMMARY

First Period;
1. DALHOUSIE — Knickle (Adamson, Lee)
2. DALHOUSIE __. Brown (Adamson)
6. ALL-STARS — Burgess (Dau.
phinee Bracket)
4. ALL-STARS — McCoombs
Second Period;
5. DALHOUSIE — Brown (Lee)

6. ALIM4STARS — MacManus
(MecCoombs)

7. DALHOUSIE — LeBlanc

8. ALL-STARS — McCoombs
(MaeManus)

9. ALL-STARS — OC. Bracket

_ (Dauphinee)

10 DALHOUSIE — Lee (Knickle)

11. DALHOUSIE -— Malloy
12, DALHOUSIE — _ LeBlanc
(Brown, Frazee)
~13 ALL-STARS — C. Bracket

14. DALHOUSIE — Lee (Knick.
le)

Third Period;
15. DALHOUSIE — Lee (Feron,
Frazee)
16. DALHOUSIE. — Lee (Adamson)

17. DALHOUSIE — LeBlanc
(Brown)
18. DALHOUSIE _. LeBlanc
(Knickle)
19. ALL-STARS — P. Bracket
(Jacobs)

Shots on goal, by periods:
Dalhousie. 12 18 23 - 48
All-Stars 11 9 4 -~ 24

ee eetensnnsnneeneer

—————_——————

The best indoor and puktoaut

sporting equipment

is found at

THE SPORTS
LODGE

86 GRANVILLE ST.

“Play More — Live Longer’”

 

4
+

 

PAGE FIVR

INTERFAG NEWS

y
Bob McQuinn

HOCKEY
STANDINGS
Division “A”
PlLWTLEFA Pts.

King’s f Se Oudy iy 1a G
Law Boe eee 27.382 6
Meds Biren Oh ke? BS
Com Sy Ne Se
Eng. 4 0 04 621 90
Division “B”
Fu Wot i FA Pts:
A & BSc. a8 ig SPO 5
Pine Hill 3 2 0120 6 4
Pharmacy 3.1 14141017 8
Dentg 2504 C2. See 9
* * oe * *
KING’S 3
LAW 2
KING’S 3 LAW 2

King’s defeated Law 3-2 in a
rugged, bruising game at the
Arena, and moved into a first
place tie in the Interface Division
standings. The King’s team was
led by Harley and Murphy.

SUMMARY

First Period;

1. KING’S—Harley (Murphy,

Read)

2. LAW—Smith (Morrisson)
3. LAW—Waterbury (Harris)

Second Period;

4. KING’S—Frazee (Fitzner)

5. KING’S—Harley (Murphy)
Third Period;

Scoring—none.

LAW 5
COMMERCE 5

Law fought to a 5-5 draw in
a rugged Interfac hocky game
at the Arena on Tuesday. Church.
ill-Smith and Eddie Crowell were
the sparkplugs for Law and Commerce respectively. ;

SUMMARY
First Period;
1. LAW: — Yates
2. LAW — MacDonald (Churchill-Smith, Wilson)

 

3s. LAW — Churchill - Smith
{MacDonald, Wilson)

4. LAW — Matheson ( Waterbury)

55 COMMERCE
Second Period;
6. LAW
(Wilson)
7. COMMERCE — Palmer (McCullough, Wilson)
%$ COMMERCE —
i Crowell)
9. COMMERCE -— Gardner
10. COMMERCE Crawell
(Frederickson)

KING’S 6
ENGINEERS 2

King’s won their third straight
ganre in Interfaculty hockey competition at the Ajrena Monday
as they took a 6-2 decision from
the hapless Engineers. Outstanding for King’s was Doc Morrisson
who sniped two goals and assisted on two others. The shots on
goal were 20-10 for the Kingsmen,

 

Gregg

—

Churchill-Smith

McCullough

* = *

SUMMARY
First Period;
got, Wilson)

2. KING’S — MacKillop (Mor“risson)

3. ENGINEERS — MacDonald
(Humphries)

4. KING’S — Murphy (Read,
Harley)

5. ENGINEERS — Isnor (MacDonald)

penalties _.. MacDonald, MorTisson, Isnor

Second Period;

6. KING’S — Morrisson (MacKillop)
7. KING’S — Read (Murphy,
Harley)
&. KING’S — MacKillop (Morrisson)

penalties — none

(Continued on page eight)

hap ) A f : ; 4 Pu Sh ay
Ls > gig a oe ae 1s le 5 eae a AY fl

BASKETBALL
STANDINGS
PlLWLE A Pta
Com. 4 8 1 154 107 6
A&S§ 2 2 0,83 49:4
Med. 2 2 0 68 44 4
Law 2) pe eee
Dents 2°0 2 67° 93. 8
Eng. g O°. 2 BS: 492) ee
Pre-Med 2 0 2 38 84 @
e (s' )e 4S
COMMERCE 42
DENTS 32
Commerce won their third
game in four starts this week
as they defeated a hapless Dent
team by ten points. Dentistry,

led by MacMurdo, who was high
scorer of the game, went out on
front early in the first half, but
Bill Ogilivie got‘‘hot’’ for commerce and at half time the accountants led 20-25. Play slowed down in the: second half, but
Commerce managed to pick up
five more points on their oppinents to win by a ten point margin.

Lineups: Commerce-MacKenny-2, Regers-11, Creighton-2,
Kirk, Kenty, Comeau, MacConnel, Ogilvie-13, Norman-4, Morrow-10.

MEDS 27
COMMERCE 16

In a close, clean game played

last week, the Meds, won their
second game in as many starts
as they downed a hard fighting
Commerce team by 11 points,
Commerce had hard luck throughout as their shooting was definitely off, while Meds on the
other hand did very well under
the basket,
Lineups :__Meds—Vair—2, MaeLeod—4, Brooks,—Ross—6, Mof.
fatt, Foster — 2, MacGregor,
Morten—4, Algie, MacDonald—3
Ashley—6

Commerce — MacKenny —1,
Comeau, Kenty—2, McKonnel—

4, Ogilvie, Norman—4, Morrow.
- = *

ARTS & SCIENCE 32
PRE-MEDS 14

Led by the Henderson brothers, a star studded Arts & Science
quintet swamped a_ short-handed
Pre-Med team to the tune of 3214. It was the Artsmen’s game all
the way with the score reading
15-8 at half-time. Sarantos of
Pre-Meds was high scorer of the
game with 8 points.

Co * &

 

Lineups:- Pre-Meds — Sarantos-8, Seaman, Dauphinee-2, MacCarra, Cruickshanks, ¢ Beer,
Sutherland, MacMillan, Shaw-4,
Hughes. |

Arts & Science-Knight-4,
Saunders-3, I, Henderson-5,
Stewart-2, Henderson-6, Hefler,
MeCurdy-4, Tracy, Halperin,
MacDonald-8. .

* * % ot ~

LAW 48
ENGINEERS 29

Paced by veteran Pete Hannington, the Law basketball team
overwhelmed the Engineers: in a
wide open rugged game that left
no doubt as to which was the
better team. The score stood at
16-15 for Law at half time but
the Lawyers got moving in the
second half to outscore their opponents 32-14

Lineups: Law-Hannington—23,
G. Hart—9, Mathews—5, Eaton,
Grant—2 Churchill—Smith—3,
Roddam—6, MacKelvie. ,

Engineers:—Oakley, St.
Helene, Hobley, Single—2, Beck,
Sharkham, Smith—2, Smeltzen,
Ferguson—2. Thomas__4, Messenger, Lindsay—8.

 
  
 
  
 

«

 

E VISITS ay

THE GLEE

by SHERBURNE McCURDY

 

Many of the people who attend the Glee Club shows from
year to year are probably unaware of what makes it tick. In order

to clarify matters a bit the Gazette paid a visit to the Glee Club one
day last week in seach of information. It seems that that noble in
stitution has experienced a great revival, a revival that really began in the college year 1945-46. Harry Zappler was President that
year; and with the support of Mary Lou Christie, Leah Tremaine,

and Jim Bell, began to get things rolling. Chief performances that

year were “The Merchant of Venice” and “You Can’t Take it With
You”. It was in the latter that Gene Machum made her debut and
tharmed the audience with her splendid performance,

Last year Gordon Hart took over the Presidency, and the Glee
Club continued its revival, with Ken Dauphinee as Manager, and
Mary Lou and Leah in their old positions giving the same strong
support. “Twelfth Night’ and “The Man Who Came to Dinner”
were the two major plays; and to round out the year’s work Geoffrey Payzant produced and presented Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Trial
By Jury”. This was the first performance of its kind at Dalhonsie,

  
   

and it was most successful.
Frank Flemming, this year’s
President, is carrying on the tradition of the previous two years,
and is providing skilled leadership to an energetic group of
members. With an active membership of four hundred, Frank’s
job is no snap. It might be noted
that the Glee Club is always
ready to enlist the aid of new
members. With a student body
of over 1700 the already large

Glee Club Membership could easi
ly be enlarged.

“As You Like It” appeared
last fall, and although the attendance on the two public nights
Was not too encouraging, it appears that the performance was
enjoyed by those who did attend.

Those now working hard on
“Dear Ruth’ and “H.M.S. Pinafore” hope for a better attendance when these are presented
next month.

A large share of the burden of
the Glee Club is carried by the
little-known and never-publicized
departments behind the scenes.
These include the Stage Crew,
the Costume and makeup Departments.

Ukie Velcoff has given freely
of his time and effort as head
of the stage crew this year. Along with Bas Bloomer, Dave
Jamieson, Bill Menchions and
others, Ukie has handled his difficult assignment very well, and
deserves a lot of credit. Frank
Bursey, the Business Manager,
comes in for high praise from the
President. In addition to his
tasks as manager, he is always
ready to lend a helping hand
whenever and wherever it is
needed. The Costume Manager,
Leah Tremaine, is faced with a
thorny problem gédtting outfits

_ for the large cast in “Pinafore”,

‘and reports the need of two U.
S. Army Air-Force uniforms for
“Dear Ruth”. We feel quite confident that Leah, with able assistance from Fran Jubien, Katy
MacKinnon, Connie Conrod and
Lib Doull, will provide the necessary trimmings for both shows.
Nancy Wilson of the make-up
group will not meet her problems
until dress rehearsal time rolls
around. After that she and her
busy assistants will have to work
overtime.

The two departments responsible for the production and presentation of our shows are the
Music and Dramatics Departments. Geoffrey Payzant is chair-,
man of the former, and is the
director of the chorus. Frank
Padmore, with the able assistance of Noel Hamilton, directs
the Concert Orchestra. Frank re
| ports that the Orchestra is doing »
Very nicely, and looks for a good

sia?
’

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CLUB

EDITOR’S NOTE

The series of articles on this
page are the result of a fairly

comprehensive survey made by
Sherburne McCurdy, Associate
Features Editor, whose work
in the Glee Club has made him
familiar with
ifications of which the average
student is totally unaware. The
fact that more work is done
off the stage than on, for instance, is not generally known.
The Gazette offers these articles to the reader
with a reminde;y that the Glee
Club, from the point of view
of the student, is one of the
assets,

its many Yram
general

University’s greatest
and that in no other Society
can a student’s time be more
profitably employed—except,

of course, in the Gazette.

 

 

The following appeared in the Skt. ‘Mary’s Journal of
Dec.19th.. We reproduce it as a type of writing not seen much
in these parts, and in which we all take an interest, if somewhat detached...ED.

“Helifax, notoriously barren of legimate theatrical productions, is once a year enriched by the Saint Mary's College
Playshop. Thie year, the organization further clevated its reputation with the revival of “Here Comes Mr. Jordan”, a
three-act comedy by Harry Segall on Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday of this week. Directed by Rev. H. J. Labelle, S.
J., with keen dramatic insight, and acted with vivid interpre
tation the play flitted from solemn realiem to witty hilarity,
from tender emotion to almost incredible fantasy, and held

the audience all the wey.

“It ie only occasionally that a decade or even century
produces such an histrionic phenomenon as the recent Play.
shop theatrical. Novices to the art performed like old troupers,
set men came through like veteran architects, and production
manager Tom Murphy's showing would credit Samuel Geldwyn. A theatrical involving mearly every device of dialegue
and etaging in the playwright’s repertoire wae set before the
feotlighte with eminent success—truly a great and appropriate
compliment to an enthusiastic and talented group.”

 

mir s

 

Show me the man who said,
“Life is a Song.” He was right,
life is a sdéng, a bitter melody
which goes on from day to day,
monotonous in its abject sameness. A song which starts out
hopefully, rises into a full-throated crescendo only to sink again
into dull, heavy, meaningless
chords, which in turn are inconsistent and soon merge into a
series of .dischords which are
seemingly incessant. Yes, life is
a song, but it is a certain type
of song. It is a loathsome dirge.

Life is like a long dark street,
having but few lights, none of
them very bright. The weary
traveller’s eyes light up with a
new expectancy as he perceives
the first of the dim shops, and
his heart grows stronger as he
plods painfully along, dragging
ipiitintrhmeseaa la i ct a,

performance in “Pinafore”. The
position of Dramatics Manager is
not officially filled, the management of that Department being
a function of the Executive of
the Society. H. Leslie Pigot has
become a familiar figure around
the Glee Club the last few years,
and as director of the main dramatic performances has done his
work thoroughly and well. He
reports that “Dear Ruth’, now
being rehearsed, is coming along
very Bicely, despite their late
start.

To a, outsider it would appear
that Glee Club activities are proceeding quite smoothly. Let us

wish them every success in their
work, t

 

his weary body towards food and
drink, and afterwards, rest. With
his last surge of strength, he
places his foot upon the step and
looks about, joyful triumph erasing the grim lines from his forehead. But what is this? His expression has changed to a puzzled
frown. A moment later the light
(Continued on page 8)

   

EMSIRS ANN «Peete, | 9 rae
, wa 7; re ,

ee NL ee! Oe ee oe
ae iw yey : a? jee v Pair"

“aq " r
: 1

Friday, January 30, 1948
DEAR RUTH

. by SHERBURNE McCURDY

     

 

When a young bobby-soxer writes pulsating letters to a lonely

airman overseas and uses her pretty sister’s name and photograph
as bait, things are liable to happen. Things are just beginning to
happen as the curtain rises in “Dear Ruth”. Ruth Wilkins, whose
part will be played by Marg Goode in the Glee Club show, 1s found
to be engaged to a rather foppish civvy. Miriam, Ruth’s younger
sister and a vociferous advocate of total war, ducks out of the house
just before handsome Bill Seawright, just back from Italy, walks
in on Judge and Mrs. Wilkins. To their surprise he begins to talk
volubly about their charming daughter. Apparently he and Ruth
have carried on a lively correspondence, of which the senior Wilkins’s
were quite unaware. The fun starts when it is discovered that Ruth
is as much in the dark as her parents. From there on it is madhouse; and the play should draw large crowds on each of its three
performances. Art Hartling as Judge Wilkins will find ample scope
for his dramatic prowess, and Lorna Inness as his partner-in-crime
has an interesting role. John Trim, honoured and respected member of the Gazette staff, will get a chance to practise up on that
line of his, as Bill Seawright, the devastating flier. John Pauley,
as Albert, has miraculously changed from a great brawny wrestler
to a rather effeminate creature whose greatest weakness is his
cluelessness. Patty McKinnon has been selected to play the role
cf the romantic Miriam, and we have no doubt that her great experience in such affairs will enable her to play it realistically. We
can just see Patty dreamily quoting Shelley! Connie Conrod, as
Martha, will have to go through a marriage ceremony, but we are
informed by local experts that Art Hartling’s ceremony cannot be
made binding. Wonder if Connie was relieved when she heard that?
Edith Hills will be Dora, the maid, and is probably finding her
lines a triffle different from the poetic words of Celia in “As You
Like It’. Marg Good says she is enjoying her part very much, and
says she feels much more at home as Ruth than she did in the
somewhat notorious role of Lorraine last year. We all know she
(Continued on Page 8)

H.M.S. PINAFORE

by SHERBURNE McCURDY

If anyone sees a dismantled ship foundering on the Gymnasium

 

 

| steps, he will know that H. M. S. Pinafore has been deserted by her

gallant crew. We don’t anticipate such a calamity, however. Rather
we expect to see her make her majestic way across the Gym stage
in full sail on the nights of February 26th, 27th, and 28th.

Geoff Payzant says he thoroughly enjoys directing the show, and
hopes for a good performance. No doubt he will be glad when it is
all over. In fact he was heard to say the other day that he could
hardly wait till spring. That could mean one of three things - he
wants to get “Pinafore” over with; or he wants his B. A.; or perhaps
he has more interesting matters to deal with. In any case “Pinafore’s” accompanist seems to concur with Geoff in his yearning for
spring.

Whatever Geoff’s outside interest may be, his enthusiasm for
“Pinafore” hasn’t waned. They have now reached the stage where
orchestra and chorus rehearse together. Eileen Cantwell says she is
enjoying her role of Josephine very much, but admits it requires a
lot of work. Julie Kaplan is enjoying the rele of Buttercup hugely
and says that she wouldn’t have missed it for anything. Lloyd Soper,
who last year established himself as a capable Gilbert and Sullivan
performer when he took the role of Judge in Trial by Jury expects
to enhance his reputation this year. As Sir Joseph Porter K. C.B.
and ruler of the Queen’s Navy he is afforded ample scope for his
talents. Maynard Taylor finds himself once more iy the familiar role
of hero. His efforts are more successful this year than last. Alen.
Wilson takes the leading bass role, that of Captain Corcoran, a
somewhat lofty gentleman who at the end of the piece finds him
(Continued on Page 8)

Party refreshment

COCA - COLA, LTD
HALIFAX

 

— ee = ea tas
ern

| ee een

Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

 
    
     

 
  
      
 
   
       
    
    
     
    
    
     
      
       
      
      
      
    
      
      
      
    
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
   
   
    
    
     

 

 

 

Dg.

         
      
     
   
 
   
   

a REVOLT COVERED AS
GE STAR OF GLUM CLUB
1INIMUM OF “DAMNS”
YMPROMISE AS UNICORN

S LOWER GYM OPERETTA

¥ “But ers cay a ‘small Rigrantty

 

“Sorry; it’s vulgar. Cut. it out, ”)

Pause, |

“Cut out that part about sex, too.”

“But there’s no sense in the thing without it.”

; “Vulgar. Cut it out.”
_ Pause. |

“Do all these cuts ee to ie “made: ff

“They're: all vulgar.”
“I don’t think so. I resign.”

_

And so he resigned, Gunther Rowling: hero of a hundred first
nights, past president of the Dalhousie Glum and Dramatic Society,
and at present playing the Hanging Judge in the Glum Clubs lat- est flop. Standing on artistic integrity and several planks on the
_ stage, he let it be known that he would refuse to continue unless
’ the enaugieanee bits of the play were restored. Great confusion fol
lowed.

Glam Club ssibeae. one Hank
Spittin, -remonstrated with the
striker, who, he felt, was probably aroused by the vague
mouthings of agitators from the
Gazette, who were notorious for
their opposition to anything and
everything. He urged him to con-.

sider his. debt of duty to the Glum
Club; he spoke to him of the
glowing tributes that his censored script would produce. Lastly,

when all arguments proved use
less, he spoke with sorrow of the
ruin of the Club, of the fiend
ish glee with which the Gazette ©

would hail the collapse of the
play. Rowling was, however, like
C. H. Smith, adamant. He refused to step down. Either the cuts

were restored, or the play went
on without him. In desperation

Hank called on the administration, in the shape of Moe Foothen,

who finally argued Rowling round

by restoring seven ‘“‘damns” and
six ‘Hells’, and to make him feel
good, and demonstrate generally the benevolence of the Glum
Club, added a “bloody’’ and the
interesting passage on chickenfarming in the Soviet. Rowling
was content.

_ “Now, in my day,” said the
Unicorn, who had stood by in a
dark corner while this went on,
“we hadn’t this sort of trouble.
I remember well the night that
J] tried to back out of going on
as one of the Three Kings in the
Xmas Nativity Show because a
reference to swaddling clothes
was cut. I was thrown out bodily.”

Sea said the Editor.
“The Glum Club operates by different methods. For instance, let
us go below, where they are rehearsing for the famous operetta

ef Silvert and Gullible, “Seven
Faculty Adviser,” or “The Lass
Who Last her Last.”

And so they went below where.
in the Lower Gym, many people
were contorting their bodies with
great gusto under the direction
of a tall, lean, machiavellian director, witha pronounced leer in
the direction of the pianist. It
eccurred to the Unicorn that
they were being taught to dance.
He watched with gathering interest as they weaved here, and then
there, and even cheered when an

inzipient ballerina or more ‘than.
average plumpness. lurched a litt}2_

too far to one side and came
- down with a large ua on the
ensparather|< eral

Finelly this’ came to an end.
The tall, lean, ete¢., director. informed | ‘them that they had
enough dancing for one day. The
Unicorn afterwards confided ‘to

 

*

Wo Pe

* * * a *
singing. The Unicorn settled back
expectantly, and he noticed the
Editer fidget uncomfortable.

“IT think,” said the Editor slowly, “that we would be infinitely
better off in our own office.”

“But,” replied the Unicorn,

“they are about to sing. It can’t
be worse than dancing. Let’s hear
them, then.’
_ The Editor conceded the first
point with grace, but demurred
to the second. In his opinion,
while he would not want to seem
biased, there were times when
the soundproof walls of the Gazette seemed very attractive. But
the Unicorn insisted, and they
stayed, for a minute. F

Seconds later they retreated
up the stairs in haste, pursued
by sounds as of the damned burning. Such was their haste that
they didn’t even notice the Big
Sign which hangs by the Glum
Club. — |

Get Your Free Gold D Here

Big Economic D

for only six appearances here

and there.

Pausing at the door leading on

to the deserted Campus, they
were struck in the back by a
renewed, burst of energy from
the lower regions, as the violins
raised their sound in tortured
protest and the chorus strove
frantically to outdo them. They
lurried on, while the sounds grew
dim in tha background, and the
infernal cacophony from _ the
Lower Gym died away behind
them. Reaching the peace and
quiet of the Gazette-- noted for
its perpetual calm-- they sank to
the floor, and appointed three
candidates from the school for
the deaf to review the production
when it would emerge in February, on the twenty-sixth, twentyseventh and twenty-eighth.

* * eye * x

EDITOR’S MAILBOX
(Continued from page 2)

Dear Sir:

Three cheers for your article on page eight oflast week’s
GAZETTE re “Initiation Overdohe.” Many of we freshmey and
Freshettes, as well as the general Fislifex public, think very
much as you
is very much overdone,

Last Fall I overheard one lady
say, during “Hazing Week’’; “It
is funny for the first two or
three days, but after that it be
_ eomes ridiculous.”

I think, and I am sure that I
have a few supporters both a“mong the freshman class and the
public of Halifax, that initiation

* should last for no longer than

mee sta

 

Yours very truly,
ig een ii Wilson

et

ed making plans, so....

do, that initiation

Elie

Oe, News
And Views

That gleam in the gal’s eyes
lately isn’t for nothing. They’re
gonna git the upper hand for
once ‘cause Co-Ed Week is coming up. Co-Ed Week -- the boys’
three days of heaven, (or heck).
Delta Gamma has already startbe prepared. Anything might happen.

We heard that the Junior CoEds didn’t sell awfully many
tickets to the Junior Prom! What
happened to the famous’ 6.726
ratio? Maybe (but we doubt it)
it’s the girls’ fault.

ANNOUNCEMENT:-. Shirreff
Hall announces with pride the
arrival of an exclusive new inmate. She’s a small honey-coloured cocker spaniel called, officially, Wendy Joan of Shirreff.
Wendy is unique, for she has not
one, but fifty godmothers, all
quite doting.

In addition to Wendy, the Hall
nearly housed janother animal-a hen, which Beryl won at that
famed Gazette Gambol. Fortunately for the Hall,

 

moet.

disappeared sometime during the

the bird

evening.

Even though it’s not with
much opposition, maybe the “New
Look” isn’t so bad after all! At
any rate, our Dal meastro, Don
Warner, likes it ‘cause he dedieated a song to all the girls with
same at the Gazette Gambol on
Friday night.

Next Saturday the Co-Ed first
and second basketball teams will
play at Edgehill. Remember the
last time we played the girls of
the red and white? It was ground
hockey; and we won. Let’s do it
again-. we'll be cheering for you.

M. L. G.

% % oo #

Dents

Another week has passed and
soon comes the finale for the
fourth year graduating class.
They had their pictures taken and
you should see the “colgate’’
smiles on most of them, including McNee and the “major’’. One
would almost think they were advertising full upper and lower
plates.

We wonder if it is ethical to
send a corsage C.0.D. to a girl

 

rt eS

in Shirreff Hall. I am not ment»
ioning any names, but remember
“Hardy” there are even limits to
leap year. (Here is where I make
two enemies).

The presence of a few Dents

at the Gazette Gambol added

more odour to the dance. Taylor,
Peters, and Hardy rented their
women to the stag dents for
twenty-five cents a whirl.

Eric Whyte seemed quite lone- —

ly this week. Cheer up Erie,
there are more “bricks” left im
Halifax,

We hear that Dougle MacAulay
was forced to make a hasty evacu.
ation at a party. Was her father
very angry Dougle?

This verse is dedicated to my
roommate. It is called “Ode to the
Gaum”’

There was a Sally quite shy,
Who said to a student named Cy,
“If you kiss me, of course,
You’ have to use force,

But thank heaven you’re stronger
than I,’

r.S. He was my roommate last
week, I hope

“Who said: ‘Neither a borrower nor a lender be’?™

“Me - after you used up my second pack of Sweet Caps!"

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

ages

2 <i.
t Sede

 

Page 2 See

 
  

  

 
 

  

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
    
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 

ce (Re one considers the teams

i
. tal = nos
“, e

its ne) ai that Dalhousie University has put —

en the field in years past and
_ the attainments that many of
- therh made in championships and
_ reputations I hope you will realee x ize that this school has a lot on
the ball, in athletics as well as in

ipa - gebolastcn ~

Quy football teams have always
‘been reputed as fighting squads,
and of late as championship contenders, and now we don’t have
a football field. Dal hockey teams
are just starting to come to their
: ey as they also did after World
Wary 1 and while this year’s team
may conceivably be chamions of
. N.S., we don’t have a hockey
rink.
Dal swimming teams, notoriously weak in the past, are show.
ing signs of improvement and we
don’t have a swimming pool. Yet,
in spite of these shortcomings in
facilities Dal has always managed to keep a clean sheet as far
as reputation foy gameness and
sportsmanship is concerned. It is
to be hoped that the day when
Dal will have all the facilities
above and the resultant improvement in teams is not too far off.
_ A real old-fashioned hoe-down
was held in the gym on a certain
evening last week when Frank
Padmore and his “Corn Jug”
Quartette consisting of two violinists, a pianist and a drummer
minus a drum but with two sticks
and 2 chair, all’ from the staid
concert orchestra of this UniYVersity indulged in a little extracurricular ‘“‘jam session’. Mary
Lou Chistie and Jack Boudreau
gave an accompanying exhibition
of the square dance in a manner
reminiscent the stage play “Harvey”, the story of an invisible
bunny rabbit, but substituting
dancers for rabbits.
Pinafore and Pugilists were
combined in the lower gym last
Monday night. The boxers and
musicians (busy with Pinafore)
were in adjoining rooms in the
‘basement, and a weird cacophony
of sound was produced by the
plop of soggy glove leather and
the plucking of strings. In the
Keith Paris, Kid Howard bout in
the third round Howard had
Paris on the ropes and was landing short lefts and rights. Perfectly timed with a tremendous
erash of the bass drum, Paris
landed a left smash and jumped
away as did about twenty people and Howard who were not
expecting the noise. The boxing
card and accompaniment was enjoyed by all.
An international day of mourning is soon to be declared by the
order of the M. W. C. S. C.
(Masculine Wearers of Coon-Skin
Coats). This venerable organization, so thickly enlisted in universities of this continent just a
few years ago, has disappeared.
Ne’er do we see the mighty coonskin with two or three people
inside at football games or hockey matches these days. The coat
with it’s many folds was also a
place without a par for secreting of fluids on nippy days. This
modern age does have it’s disadvantages.
Saint Francis Xavier’s new
rink will be put in operation for
the first intercollegiate game a
week from this coming Saturday.
The X-men have had some difficulties getting their plant inStalled apparently, and because
of this difficulty our varsity
rape squad was unable to make
- the Antigonish trip last Saturday.

Donny Artz, the Midshipmite.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

“H. M. S. PINAFORE”

» (Continued from Page 6)

self a person of low estate, a mere common sailor. Bernie Creighton, a familiar personage on the stage will appear as Dick Deadeye,
a gruff, sour individual. Other leading roles are taken by Stan
Pearson as the Boatswain, Anne Thexton as Cousin Hebe, Vince
Allen as Carpenter, Don Chipman as The Sergeant of Marines and

Both Geoff Payzant and Frank Padmore reported good progress
in their respective departments and anticipate a good performance.
Leah Tremain says that many of the costumes will have to be made
and since there are over eighty members of the cast it is apparent
that Leah and her assistants have a lot of needle-work on their hands.
The best way in which to thank all these people for their untiring
efforts is to turn out in full force to see their show, ONCE AGAIN,
THE DATES ARE: FEBRUARY 26, 27 AND 28.

 

 

“DEAR RUTH”

(Continued from Page 6)
can be much more natural as Ruth. Dave Graham has been assigned the enviable role of making love to Connie Conrod. The only
part left to be filled is that of the sailor who enters at the end

of the play.

Mr. Pigot, who is directing the play, says that in spite of a
late start, rehearsals are well ahead of schedule, and hopes for a
good show. Ukie Velcoff is reported to have written President Truman in quest of a couple of U.S.A.A.F. uniforms. The girls in the
costume department are finding the task of making six hundred
chrysanthemums a somewhat onerous one, but are making good

progress.

If you wish to see the result of all this labour on the

part of the players, Mr. Pigot and the supporting departments,
come to the Dal Gym on any one of the three nights of February
5th, 6th or 7th. We trust you’ll find it well worth while.

 

Be Gs. Ae. | C

(Continued from Page 4)

with nothing in it. A few dollars
spent now for a backdrop of
beaverboard or some such background for the archery target
would be a good investment since
so many arrows lie shattered in
slivers at the lower end of the
small gym; beginners aren’t supposed to hit the target each time
anyway.

The first D.G.A.C. meeting this
year was held on Tuesday the
20th for the election of a hockey manager, to which post fastskating Polly Philipps was unaminously chosen, an assistant
badminton manager - Janet Robertson, and an assistant basketball manager - yours truly

Archery; All Co-eds interested in archery are asked to join
sister enthusiasts in the lower
gym. Tuesday nights, or 2.30 on
Wednesday afternoons. If some

show up from each year’s class,

tournaments can be held. Take
cheer freshettes! - others can
have blistered hands too.

Badminton; Pat MacKinnon
asks if those who are on the
tournament schedules will try to
get their games played off during this week, oy try to finish
them up by Tuesday night, Feb.
23.

Basketball; Take note everyone who wants to learn how to
play basketball, or anyone who
wishes to improve their technique: all is not over in this
sport even if you haven’t made
the team. Mrs. MacKeigan says
she will be in hey office each
afternoon and will coach any who
wish it.

Dal First team tied with Q.E.
H. Grads 16-16 after a good
strong game. Marg. O’Neill was
the outstanding player on the Dal
team, and had much to do with
gaining a tie game instead of a
loss.

On Saturday Dal girls make
the Edgehill trip to play the
Windsor wimmen’ in one of the
most looked-forward-to games of
the week.

 

Our first intercollegiate game
comes off this Saturday with Acadia, (Story elsewhere).

The ice carnival which was
suggested in this column earlier
is now planned as the windup
event of the I. S. S. campaign
during the first week in March.
The plans include the ice carnival and a dance at the gym after
this.

i #..

omer ee et sk ee ee er ws

pot heneled deena sh nee Ten

INTERFAC NEWS

(Continued from page 5)

ARTS & SCIENCE 4
DENTS 2

Arts and Science defeated
Dents in an Interfac Hockey
game at the Arena. Pentz scored
two goals for the losers and MacKinnon paced the Arts and
Science team

SUMMARY

First Period;

1, ARTS & SCIENCE — Smith

(MacKinnon)

2. DENTS—Pentz

Second Period;

3. ARTS & SCIENCE—Henderson
4. DENTS— Pentz

Third Period;

5. ARTS & SCIENCE — Mac
Donald
6. ARTS & SCIENCE—McKim

(MacKinnon)

 

ST. F. X. DEFEAT DAL

(Continued from Page 4)

finitely be in order this week as
the team prepares for the meeting with Acadia in the Dal gym
this Saturday night.

The line-ups: St. F. X.—Whel
an 23, Propper 19, Mifflin 6,
Nelson 4, O’Sullivan 2, MacLean
1, Curry, Kyte, Bond, Hanusick.
Dal— W oodward 12, Gossae 8,

Tanner 5, Morrison 4, Shaw 2

=e

MacKay 2. Connelly 1, D. Rogers.

 

, en
EVANGELINE |
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

   

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED
Studley Drug Store
29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store
141 Hollis St.

 

THE
GREEN LANTERN
RESTAURANT

“The sign of a good meal’
407-409 Barrington St.
J

 

 

con kt he

(Continued from page 6)
has died out of his eyes and his
face is as grey and haggard as
before.

Ah! we see, the light has gone
cut in the shop, or rather, there
never was a light at all, it was
merely a reflection of the brighter glow futher along. So we see
the tired old man ease himself
to a sitting position on the step,
there to rest awhile before going on.

But there is no rest for him,
the night is too damp, and cold,
and the step is too hard. So he
pushes on, more slowly this time,
to the next light, only to have
his disappointment renewed.

Further and further he goes;
again and again he turns away
sadly, with ever diminishing hope
and strength.

Finally he turns toward the
last light, the last chance, thinking it must be real, and can be
no reflection, because it is the
only light left. Now our poor
traveller can hardly move, so
cold and weary is he, but he summons every last bit of energy he
has and plods on, ever onward,
until at last he comes to the step.
He mounts, and reaches the door,
then pauses a moment to listen.

Sounds reach his ears which
bring a happy, contented smile
to his face, and he sits down to
listen more. He hears the family
inside partaking of their Christmas dinner, and what a pleasant

Stes

MAKES SHOPPING EASIER!

The smart woman reads
The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail ads before she
goes shopping. These papers
are chosen to carry the greatest bulk of local and national
advertising in Nova Scotia.
The smart shopper KNOWS
where to shop. She saves time,
mony and shoe leather.

Read

THE HALIFAX HERALD
and

THE HALIFAX MAIL

Two of Canada’s Greatest
Newspapers

Se EEE

 

—_—
Oxford Theatre

Mon.

 

 

Tue.

DISHONOURED LADY
THE FABULOUS DORSEYS

 

Wed. Thur.
EASY COME EASY GO
HOUSE OF DRACULA

 

Fri. Sat.
GUNFIGHTERS

THE MAGIC BOW

ec re ee ee

 

 

CASINO

STARTING SAT. JAN. 3ist.

. THE EXILE
with
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS JR.
and

MARIE MONTEZ

® and

PAULE CROSET

 

 

 

Friday, January 30, 1948

sound it seems to him to be.
But what is this strange feeling

of contentment which is stealing

over him? All of a sudden he

is warm, and sleepy. His eyes

close, his head falls until it rests

Gm hisishoulder, He is asleep. The

smile remains on his face, and |

the lines of care disappear. Little

does he know he will never a
gain awaken. He only knows he

has reached his ultimate goal. K
Now shall we open the door

and step inside, or shall we first

peep in the window; let us try

the latter first. There, what do

we see? “e

But this is impossible, there
is only one old may inside, and
the only sound is his crunching
of the bread crust he holds in
-his trembling hand.

There are only three pieces of «
furniture in the room, a chair,
a table, and...... a battered old 4
phonograph with one cracked record.

The name?

“The Christmas
Tom Thumb.”

Dinner Of ™

 

C. B- C. DOWNS DAL

(Continued from Page 4) “e

 

ough points to beat Dal, Carter
bagging 9 and Shea 8. The whole
attack of the Boys Club revolved
around these boys, and if they
didn’t score, they set somebody
else up.

The line-ups: C. B. C.—Carter
9, Shea 8, Betts 4, Slaunwhite
8, Gaudet 1, Forrest, Burns,
Dowd, Moore, Grey, Stone, Han
son. Dal__1. Morrison 4, Wolman 4, Wolfson 3, Goldman 2,
MacKay 2, Boniuk, Waller,
Sideris.

 

 

Footwear

We specialize in
that will fit
taste — for either service or
dress’ wear, for around the
or attending

   
    
   
  
    
  
    

footwear

every college

campus social
functions.

We cordially invite you to
pay us a visit. We present stic
lines as “Hart”, “Slater’’

“Murray” and “Ritchie”.

SHANE’S
Shoe Store

397 Barrington St., Halifax

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage de.
signed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

NURSERIES Limited...
381 Barrington st. HALIFAX

Dal Students —

A welcome awaits you at

Stummeys Lynted

456 Barrington Street,

Where you will find A
complete Music Service

and the finest
Sports Equipment.

 
