    

 

7
;
‘*

 

There will be a special
Convocation in the Gym
at 10.30 a.m. on Munro

Day, March 9. ..

 

 

Vol. 79

 

 

-- The editors of the

Gazette are sure that every Dal
housie student will join in wish
ing success to Dalhousie’s

“Beautiful Baby” team, shown above.

Members of the squad, who

 

 

alhowste

GA

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION §&

HALIFAX, N.S.,

oe

SIS

are entered in the National Uni- Michael Stuart MacFadyen 14%:
versity B Baby Contest are, months, son of Mr. and Mrs. G.R.
left to right, Nicki Reynolds, 15 MacFadyen, 76 Oxford Street
month old son of science student (third place); John Gordon Stead,
E. N. Reynolds and Mrs. Rey- 17 months, son of Mr. and Mrs.
rolds, Apt. 21, Staff Honse 3, L.T. Stead, Mulgrave Park
Mulgrave Park (first place); (second place).

 

Nicki Reynolds, Winner of Local Baby
Contest Answers U.B.C. Challenge

Nicki Reynolds, 15-months-old
son of Mr. and Mrs. E. N. Rey
nolds, Apartment 21, Staff House
3, Mulgrave Park, was selected as
first place winner of the Dalhousie-King’s Student. Veterans’
Association ‘Beautiful Baby”
contest last week. Mr. Reynolds
is a veteran of over four years’
service in the RCAF, and Mrs.
Reynolds is from Bolton, Lancashire, England.

Chosen for second place among
the 40-odd contestants was John
Gordon Stead, 14% months, son
of Mr. and Mrs. L.T. Stead, Mulgrave Park. Mr. Stead served in
the Canadian Army for six years.

Third place winner was Michael
Stuar; MacFadyen, 17 months,

son of Mr. and Mrs. G.R. MacFadyen, 76 Oxford Street, Halifax. An RCAF veteran, Mr. MacFadyen is a third year Science

MUNRO DAY --- TUESDAY, MARCH 9

 

SODALES ELECTION
DECLARED INVALID

Protests of student debaters implying that a “packed house”
was responsible for the result of Sodales elections caused the Debating Society to declare that the election of officers last Thursday
evening was to be declared invalid, and that a re--election would be
held next Thursday evening.
Following the final- interfacutty debate last Thursday evening,

year, by SolWhitney Dal
coming academic

dales President,

 

 

 

APPLICATIONS FOR EDITOR AND BUSINESS MGR.
OF PHAROS, GAZETTE, and

FOR POSITION OF PUBLICITY DIRECTOR TO BE
PRESENTED TO PREXY OF
STUDENTS’ COUNCIL.

 

 

 

FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1948 oY ae No. 13

 

 

NEW ELECTION:
TO BE HELD - MONDAY, MAR 8

Charges of forgery, incompetence, illegal election
procedure and sharp practice flew at a meeting of the
students’ council Thursday night as the Council de
clared null had void the results of a general student election held last Tuesday, and ordered that a new election
be held Monday, Mar. 8. The decision was made after
Douglas Stallard, election committee chairman, produced
duplicate voters lists with signat“res of six engineers
who had voted both in the polling booth at se Engme
ers who had voted both in the polling booth at the
polling booth at the Engineering building, and at the
Arts and Science booth in the mens’ residence, as well
as the signature of a law student taking an affiliated
commerce course who had voted both at Forrest and

Studley.

Only precedent to the illegal election was in the first year of
the Student Council when it was found that there were more bak
lots cast than there were students. im the University, at the first
Dalhousie general student election. 
Friday morning, Harry Rhude, law candidate for the presidency
of the Student council, announced that he would’ not run in the re.
election. He felt that the majority of students had voted for Jack
Poudreau and Russ McKinney, the other candidates, and that those
who voted for him should have an opportunity to ¢ast their ballots
for the two men, one of whom was certain to win the election.
Boudreau had been elected with 407 votes, followed by McKinney
with 405, and Rhude with 309.

Both Boudreau and McKinney threatened to resign from the
campaign unless it’ was made clear to the student body that they
had not called for the student re-election, and the new election is
a result of the discovery of duplicated votes by the election committee. It was decided that a mass meeting of the student body
would be held Saturday in the gymnasium. The new election will
be held Monday, Mar. 8.

the meeting was declared open
for election of officers for the

 

student.

A picture of the winner, Nicki
Reynolds, will be forwarded to
Ottawa to be judged in competi>
ion with photos of other university babies. The competition resulted from a challenge by UBC
student veterans.

rymple. Thereupon a student was
said to have left the room briefly
to return with a number of students who had not attended the
earlier session. This was said to
be the cause of the election result which placed a Law student
in the position of President.
Immediately following the announced results a student from
another faculty rose to protest

 

the procedure, thereby precipitating the ensuing stormy session
which culminated in a motion that
declared the election

This,

eleceion failure,

invalid.
following the Council
establishes an
other precedent in student elections at Dal.

 

 

(LAW LIBRARY)

——

As exams draw near, the boys

frequent the library more and

more. The Dal Law Libery is the
largest of its kind in the Maritimes, with abcut 20,00 volumes
worth over $15,000.

 
on

—

 

   

rc

' CAN

ADA’S: OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
e ad aes £ e- “ ee
ne eee Editor-in-Chief
# LEW MILLER
Managing Editor Business Manager
BRUCE LOCKWOOD _ AL..RUBIN
News Sports | Features
JACK LUSHER —_ BOB. TUCK ART MOREIRA

Page Editors

PETER MINGO, JOE LEVISON, J. TRIM, SHERBURNE McCURDY
ANNE DeCARTERET (Literary)

a Associates |

BUD KINGSBURY, MARJ GOLBURGH, BEV HUNTINGTON
Circulation cia
JAN ROBERTSON, MANAGER, D. SADOFSKY, M. RITCHIE

JERRY JOHNSON, A. de CARTERET, BEV HUNTINGTON.
Photographers...DANNY SOBERMAN, DICK GLUBE, E. RICHTER
Proof Readers. MIRIAM GLUBE MANAGER. BETTY THOMPSON

. D. SADOFSKY

Astistant Business Mamager ........0:...cccsseccseeeceseeeseees ROBIN MacLEAN

Exchange Manager. .................cccs0eeeeeeees We Peececkagde 00navt PETER SEDERIS
IRM es tr ee eo ia vex cana dueeteicu nies ceegaoms dod . STU WALLACE
Reporters iia

THE» DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Home Thoughts
From Abroad

(Eds Note: The - foHowing editorial is a reprint from ‘THE
ARGOSY WEEKLY.)

Teachers or Scholars

What is the necessary qualification of a good teacher? Is i*
a Master’s “degree from Oxford
or a Ph. D. from’ Columbia? Is
it his academis accomplishment?
Or is it his long years of experience?

Many people would answer affrrmatively to these questions
and we must admit that these
are the outstanding characteristics of many of the professors
and lecturers with whom we have
come in contact during the last
few years. But actually these
are the characteristics that tend
to cover up weakness in teaching
ability.

A dozen degrees earned by
scholarships will never necessarily make that person a teacher

   
   

Friday, March 5, 1948

 

   

 

 

PATSY PIGOT, BOB McQUINN PHILLIP SIMON — Dent Society.

unless he has additanal qualifications. And this is where we
strike the bone of contention.

 

Vol. 79 FRIDAY, MARCH 65, 1948 No. 18

;
ie,
a

 

 

 

    

SPECIAL CONVOCATION

On Tuesday morning there will be a special Convocation in the Gym at 10.30 A:M., when the Univerity will award honorary degrees to four men whose
names at least Are known to most of us as eminent in
their particular fields. It is hoped that as large a number of students as possible will attend the ceremony in
honour of three of our most eminent alumni, Dr. Creighton, Major Fraser and Sis James Dunn, and one. of the
Maritimes’ most distinguished educators and_ scholars,
Dr: ‘Patterson: retiring President of Acadia. Fuller details appear on page nine of-this issue.

LETTER FROM THE EDITOR
_Chivalry’s Had It

I'm just a‘trifle weary of using the editorial “we'. Besides I
want to say ‘a few things that have been on my mind, and I might
be considered unfaiy to the GAZETTE if I were to incorporate
these mouthings as a part of its so-called policy. eesens steenie wisren atten
-.. Several days ago Iwas being carried ‘along Barrington Street
“in one of Halifax's “yellow perils’ when a dignified elderly ‘lady’
climbed ‘on boatd. There were no seats vacant. so I rose and offered
ther mine. She stared at me for a second or two, and then, in a cold,
haughty voice, said “Keep ,on sitting.” -~ Well, sister, I will keep on
sitting. I've had ‘enough of trying. to be chivalrous for people like
you. It’s too-bad, though, that finer ladies than you. will have to
stand while I sit: ey , 7 ;

Now don’t. misjudge- me:'“I’m not being hasty. I have been
iscevied before by dames-of this breed, and I have no doubt that
many males who read this have. also been treated | similarly. Several

 

years ago I was provoked to a point of observing the behaviour of
the “fairer’’ sex. F know that it’s not fairy te generalize, but, men,
beware! In this instance I could not but notice how many times |
-cwent out of my way to hold. open doors fot “Women who breezed by
in full sail without so much as taking the scowls ‘off their faces. At
that time, 1 must admit, I. naturally went on a bit of .a rampage. After several weeks of observation and trying to decide whether to
slam a door in a feminine face, | approached a boiling point. Then
one day I happened to pass a shop where a long queue of persistent,
unfem:-ine female creatures clamored for nylons. I guess, perhaps,
1 should have explained my behaviour to all the women I pushed out
of the way that day. But, on second thought, why should I? They
seldom explain theirs. My only regret was that the stockings I purchased were about two sizes too large for any of my friends.

Be cautioned, girls! You can still repaiy the damage caused by
a few ignorant old, and potential, young, battle-axes. Just get» them
to smile once in a while. I'm always amazed at what I can do for a
smile.

On Prejudices

“There’s nothing worse than a Canadian --- unless, of course.

it might be a Liberal, or perhaps a Christian.” That statement, I 
believe, is every bit as sensible as any such statement or implication

as the following: “There's nothing worse than a Communist --- unless,
of course, it might be a Negro, or a Jew, or a Japanese or a German
or a Newfoundlander’”’ Am I being absurd? --- Well, just listen’ to

conversations of any group of. people anywhere. I wish that the
pedigree of people who make such statements would show for ail
to see. We should merely be content with what we have been given
and not worry too much about where God has placed us, noy whet
color or creed we are. --- And, incidentally, were you angered by
‘the initial statement? -~ If you were, examine yourself --- your prejudice is showing. I realize that I am treading on thin ice when I
eriticize prejudices. | know that I have a few --- but I don’t hurt
a with mine. hitth.

 

We have too many professors
filiing teaching positions whose
abilities along this line are practically nie We don’t want men or
women in these roles just because they have a wealth of
knowledge and wisdom stored in
their minds — for many of them
will keep their wisdom to themselves for evermore, unable to
pass it on.

We _— definitely
change in policy regarding faculty. What most students: require
are professors who are going: to
teach them something they
wouldn’t get from a book by
themselves. Mount Allison would
gain more prestige by what it
teaches the students -than by
what its faculty members know
cy have done in the past.

Further, we contend that all
professors should be hired on a
temporary basis only, subject tw
approval by the students. “After
a period of a year, students can
give a true picture of a professor’s teaching ability. It is amazing to think that University officials add professors to their faculty without having heard them
lecture. ‘It
think that academic achievements
are sufficient qualification.

We can find prominent examples in. every. walk’ of life.” Does
a star hockey playey necessarily
become ag first-class coach or do
front .ling movie actors become
producers and directors? Very
common examples, it ‘is true, but
nevertheless’ they support our
argument that “scholar” and
“teacher” are not synonymous.

Here is. our suggestion. The
University should devise a rating
system by which our professorial staff would be classified by
students who have taken their
particular courses. Then, on the
basis of this rating, replace the
“deadwood” that has been accumulating over the years with
yeunger staff members who have,
in addition to their academic
training learned a bit of teaching psychology and instructional
technique. The affect on the stuaents would be terrific!

Raise the teaching standard
first — the learning standard
would almost automatically follow.

 

 

Why They Marry?
Why in the world do women
marry such g¢ood-for-no*hing

creatures as men? Because there
aint anything else to marry. So
what?

   
   
     

advocate a

is rather illogical to .

- \ ; : ~
a a 2 6 Nera fi, x oO i Rn | a bas

Visit the new WILLIS store — Attractively set up depart- |

ments featuring —

BOOKS - RECORDS - MUSIC - ELECTRIC APPLIANCES
PIANOS

Willis Piano Co. Limited

127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

“‘Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N? S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

Dalhousie Universit

Halifax, Nova Scotia
Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction
snsialt perenne ts Ein Seal

Diplomas in:

se

Degrees of:

Bachelor of Arts Engineerin
Bachelor of Science Education .
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital P
Master of Science Mining Gane

Pre-Professional Courses
rina arn ag ces
Honour and Advanced Courses in many de
inclusive Fees in the B. Se. course about $210.00 tar

in the B, A. Course average about 3160.00 a year

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held ig
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History
The Professional Faculties .

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Residences .
Women students live in Shirreff Hal] — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service

students,

Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information wr:te to THE REGISTRAR.

_ a, j
ek os

 
 

4
{
3
.
| =
iy
t
se
7
a
'
wy
t
(
©
f
i
Py
4
| 3
y Sy
7
an
|
—~
a

~~

va

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S. “FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1948

 

PARNIVAL

 

 

Plans Finalized For D-Day
Staff Positions Selected

 

Final plans for the Dalhousie
Radio Day Program, set for Monday, March 8, over station
C.J.C.H., have been carried out,
according to an announcement
mada by Art Mears, Publicity
Director and key man behind the
radio day organization.

Numerous different: programs
have been planned for the major
occasion, including a half hour
broadcast of the _ intercollege
hockey game between Dal and
Tech, a radio play produced by
the students and short addresses
by Dr. Kerr, president of the
University; Ross Hamilton, president of the Students Council,
speaking on behalf of the students, and Mr. M. M. Rankin,
speaking on behalf of the alumni.
Satires, mock soap operas as well
as programs produced by the
Veteran students, and the Glee
Club will round out the day.

The following will be in charge
of the program; Art Mears, station manager; Les Page, program
director; Phil Walker, chief anrouncer; Bruce Lockwood, Ian
MacDermaid, John Trim, Alton
Lomas, Joe Levison, Joyee Whit.
ter, and Mayra Sssger, announ:
ers; Jerry Pefhany, Earl Boyd,

Gorden Pierce, techneal staff; Ian
Pameter, David Hess, Don Waller,
Straros Boulos, Anne de Carteret,
script ‘writers; (Phillis Scott,
librarian.

Some of the sponsers aquired ©

fcr the occasion are: Swift Canada Co. Lt.; Roza Bros.; Gordon

_B. Isnor; Rubin’s Mens and Boys

Wear; and Bligh Radio.

Pre-Med Society Plan
Final Meeting Of Year

 

 

The firfal meeting of the Dalhousie Pre-Medical Society for
this term will be held on Monday, March 15th., at 7 p.m. in
the Chem theatre. The election
of officers for next. year will be
the chief topic on the agenda.
The financial report along with
the reports of the different committees will be presented at this
meeting. All pre-med students are
urged to attend.

 

Pre-Med Dance Held In

Mens’ Common Room

A very enjoyable dance sponsered by the Dalhousie PreMedical Society was held on
Saturday, Feburary 28th, in the
Common Room of the Men’s
Residence. Music was supplied
by Harry Cochrance and his
orchestra, and was well received
with expressions of pleasure by
the seventy couples present.

The arrangements were under
the management of Don MacMillan, Ottawa and Walter MacLean, Stellarton. The danceing
lasted from nine to one. Chaperons for the oceasien were Mr.
and Mrs. James Stoker. A number of novelty danees were held
to add to the entertainment.

This was the first event sponsored by the Pre-Medical Society,
which was formed only last year.
It is hoped that its unqualified
success will encourged the PreMeds to bigger and bettey dances
in the future.

 

Zoning Regulations
Pressed By President

 

Zoning regulations that would
permit Dalhousie full exploitation
of its splendid setting was sought
by University President Dr. A. E.
Kerr when he addressed the Town
Planning Board yesterday.

Appearing with the college
head were Dean Vincent C. MacDonald of the Law School; Dr.
H. G. Grant, Dean of Medicine,
and Prof. C.E. Wilson of the Department of History.

‘Dr. Kerr gave the meeting
some idea of future plans and
envisioned a cultural centre that
would = eventually incorporate
‘Studley and Forrest campus in
cne beautiful development.

‘His remarks won the wholehearted support of the board
members, and he has termed by
Town: Planning Engineer J. P.
Dumaresq “a man of exceptional
vision.”

 

I.S.S. Program
Carried Out

Successfully

 

The second annual Dalhousie
Iee Carnival sponsored by the
Dalhousie committee of the International Students Service, was
held last Monday evening at the
Halifax Forum. Bernal Sawyer,
chairman of the I.S.S. committee
said that the Carnival was g success, both financially and socially.

Dalhousie Co-Eds hockey tegm
eked out a 1-0 victory over the
Campus Characters in an abbreviated hockey tilt, the first event
on the evening’s program. Anne
Tompkins, from Rimouski, P.Q.,
scored the only tally of the ggme
early in the first period, and the
co-eds held out in the last half
against the concentrated efforts
of the Campus Chargcters.

The members of the girls. team
were, Crystal Merrick, goal;
Eileen Landrigan, Marg Eustace,
defence; Nancy Jones, Pauline
Phillips, Ruth Bulmer, forwards;
Anne Tompkins, Marg O’Neill,
Nancy Wilson, Mary Lou Crowe,
Louise Joudry, Jan Robertson,
Caroline Logan, Pat Snuggs, Connie Cyr, Rosemary Blount, Substitutes.

Campus Chargcters were;
Denne Burchell, goal; Sonny Carson, Bernie Creighton, defence;
Gerald “Fuzz” Foster, Doug Oakley, Al Lomas, forwards; Geoffery Payzant, Bob Kgill, Frank
Padmore, Ukie Velcoff, Pete Mingo, Bliss Leslie, substitutes. Referees were Bill Brown and Dipe
Marshall.

In the second event of the
evening King’s tug-of-war team
defeated Dalhousie in two
strgight tries. Dalhousie girls’
tug-of-war-team evened the score,
however, by defeating the King’s
girls squad.

Bill Brown won the men’s skating race, with Murray Malloy and
Zen Graves finishing second and
third respectively. Other contestants were Pete Feron, Ken Reardon and Ukie Veleoff.

Finalists in the girls’ skating
Tate were Ruth Bulmer and
Louise Joudrey. Winner in the
final heat was Ruth Bulmer.
Other contestants were, Pat MacKinnon, | Patline Phillips; Pat
Snuggs, Marg O’Neill and Leah
Tremaine.

Jean MacKenzie, New Glasgow,
Was crowned Carnival Queen by
Dr..A. E. Kerr, president of the
university in the final event of
the evening. Prof. George Grant,
of Dalhousie University presented
Miss MacKenzie with a suitable
gift from the I.S.S. committee.

At the conclusion of the Carnival, students moved to the Dalhousie gymnasium, where the
annual International. Student’s
Service dance was held. Bernie
Creighton, Shirreff Hall candid
‘ate in the I.S.S. Campus King

contest was crowned King of the
Campus, s€e cut succeeding Russ
(Continued on Page 10)

 

—_—*

No. 1S

 

BIG EVENT

 

Former Dal Med Student
Makes Medical History

 

New Executive Elected
By Arts and Science

Arts and Science Society held
their final meeting of the term,
last Thursday, Feb. 26, in room
three of the Arts Building. About forty members were in attendence.

The principal topic on the
agenda was the election of officers for the comming year.
The following were voted in;
Scott Morrison, Halifax, presid
ent; Andy MacKay, Halifax,
vice-president; Carol Wood, Tatamagoush;  secrdtary; Budge
Archibald, Hahfax, treasurer;
Bob Wilson, Halifax, D.A.A.C.
representative; and Sherman
Zwicker, Lunenburg, — inter-faculty sports representative. Also
Sherman MacCurdy, Halifax,

was elected aativities manager,
Derek Griffin, Halifax, debating manager and Patt MacKinnon, Truro, dramatics manager.
The subject of fees again arose and it was decided by the
new executive that a renewed
effort would be made next year
and the remaining part of this
term to secure paid members.
All students in the Arts and
Science faculty are eligible to
become members of this organization.
enti ninemsn,
In one day of war, Canada, Britain and the United States spent
over $112,000,000. This money
would give five million childres
one good meal a day for a whole
vear. Give GENEROUSLY to the
Canadian Appeal for Children.

By Patsy Pigot

"THE GALLOP POLL = |

Conducted At A Fast Trot

Dr. A. P. Magnoet, former Dalhousie Medical student has lately been awarded the honour of
creating medical history, by being the first man to use hypnotizm as a painless means to bring
about the birth, of a seven
pound baby. Last week-end, in
London England he was acredited
the successful birth of a daughter
to Mrs. Joyce Carter who was
quoted as saying; “I felt no pain
at all’,

Dr. Magnoet graduated from
the Med School in 1935. During
his college eareer he was a noted
athleted, especially in football.
Before he graduated he successful carryied off one of the
coveted athletic gold ‘“D’’s.

The. doctor is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. Meidel Magonet, 139
Union Street, Glace Bay. His
father is a retiried merchant of
that town. Dr. Hayman Magnoet,
his brother also graduated from
Dalhousie Medieal School. Both
brothers have been practicing in
London since 1939.

Dr. Magnoet may be remembered as the one who attempted
to hypnotize a British Fighter,
Erie Boon, before he entered the
ring, in order te rid him of an

inferiority complex, earlier in

year.

ine
NOTICE

The Council of the Students
has announced that applicatoins
for the position of Editor-inChief
of the GAZETTE for the coming
academic year are to be presented to either President Ross Hamilton, or Mr. Murray Rankin,
987% Edward Street, prior to midnight March 25,

 

(Conducted at a fox-trot by a
creature who should be writing
an English 2 theme at this mom
ent.)

Question asked this week was:

“What would you a if you
had to spend as much time on
other subjects as you do on English 2?” (The question was precipitated by the fact that no less
than six prominent members of
the GAZETTE staff are faced
with weekly themes at a time
when the GAZETTE should be
going to press.)

All students questioned agreed
that English 2 was beneficial, and
that the longer one gets away
from the course the more beneificial it becomes. Most students,
however, agreed that themewriting took far too much time,
in spite of the fact that the majority of students are able to
keep up with their themes.

The following are soni, of the
choice comments received:

Al Rubin: “I took the course
last year.— In answer to the

 

question, If I did, I wouldn’t
have time to eat, sleep, or drink.”

Danny Soberman: “Well, it
certainly is an interesting and
enlightening course, — but the

trouble is that even a short illness puts a fellow far behind. If
other courses were at time- consuming, I’d take two subjects per
year.”

Sherburne McCurdy: “I also
took the course last year. — So
far as I’m concerned it’s the
best course on the curriculum.”

Graham L*verman: “I should
have preferred that themes had
been required every other week
instead of weekly. I feel, however, that writing English 2
themes was a profitable experience,”’ ,

Ted Thompson: “I’d be up
every night of the week unti}
4 o’clock instead of only on Syn.
day nights. The practise of t) ».
ing to express oneself while
h oking forward to careful criticism, is very helpful.”
on wages.

  

 

 
   
      

 

 

Ae — fs
Vi Pod

of Dahousie’s Canadian Football

 

|

 
 

SPORT .
REPORT

BY BOB TUCK

|

With the completion of the Interfac Hockey League semi- finals it might be well to take time out to say a few words about the
revival of interfaculty sport at Dalhousie. Never before have Interfaculty sports experienced a peak of popularity such as they now

 

 

 

_ enjoy, and never before have they been so ably run and administer
ed. The credit for all this is due, in large part, to the energy and
foresight of Physical Director John MacCormack. When John came
to Dal two years ago, interfaculty sport was practically dead on
its feet. During the season of 1943-44 there had been some interest shown in the Interfac hockey situation, but it was due almost
‘entirely to the fact that the Varsity team had been dropped for
the season, and the only hockey played was interfaculty. Last year
intérfac sport was revitalized and reorganized. Both hockey and
basketball provided considerable competition among the faculties and
nided in forging a strong link between the students of the two campi.
This year the trend has been continued, and interfac sports have
grown to the point where they boast of three fast leagues, the better teams of which could give any intermediate intercollegiate team
a@ run for their money. King’s, who look like the pick of the evenly
balanced Interfac Hockey loop, drubbed Acadia Hatchmen 8-3, and
defeated N.S.A.C. at Trbro 5-4.

Never did we see a dizzier situation than the one which has
developed in intercollegiate hockey. Looking ovey the standings, we
find Acadia in first place with 8 points. By all reasoning they
should’nt be there at all, but they caught Dal and St. F.X. without
some of their best players, and tied cans on their respective tails

picking up four points, to lodge them in first place. St. F.X. has a

good for the runner-up slot. They moved up from a 5-5 tie with Dal
when St. Mary’s forfieted a game to them a week ago last Saturday. St. F.X. played Tech that day because St. Mary’s didn’t want to
‘play for the same reason Dal was shorthanded at Acadia. Dal could
have demanded the first game of the season with equal justification when St. F.X. declined to play because their ice surface wasn’t
ready. We don’t like this way of doing things at all - its bad for the
League, and bad for enthusiasm. However, if Dal can win all their
remaining games, they will have nothing to worry about but the replay of the disputed game with Acadia. And the team is looking
forward to that game.

=
—*

On March 8, we hope to have a game between Dal and Tech
to broadcast - hockey, of course. That is all snafued up too. According to present arrangements, the game will only get half an hour
on the air, which of course is ridiculous, particularly so because the
half hour alloted coincides with the second period only. We will
try to get the ice another hour when the third period will coincide
with the time on the air. But there is no telling what will happen.
We may not even get the ice at all, since St. Mary’s has first call
on it. Failing this we hope to broadcast an Interfac finals game.
But broadcasting no more than the second period is ridiculous.

_ The new President of the D.A.A.C. is Bob Knickle. Bob is an
excellent choice, quite ably equipped to deal with the trying problems he may well have to face next year. Knick. has done a great
job as manager of the Interfac Hockey League this year, and has
had a great deal of experience on Dal teams over the past few
yars. Weean look to Bob to carry on the outstanding work of retiring President Windy O’Neill.

DISA & DATA: St. Dunstan’s hockey team has captured the
N.B. -P.E.I. playoff, defeating U.N.B. in a two-game series. St. Dunsean’ won the games by scores of 5-3 and 5-1 ....... Acadia upset
Tech 10-7 at Halifax Saturday ........ Mt. A. sounded the death knell
of Howie Ryan’s great basketball teams of the past few years as they
walloped U.N.B, 86-38. Ryan is now at McGill.

Bob Knickle DAAC President
Bob MacDonald Vice-Prexy

Bob Knickle, well known Dalhousie student has been elected by
acclamation to the position of President of the D.A.A.C. Bob succoeds Thomas “Windy” O'Neill, who has done a tremendous job
this year in re-establishing Dalhousie in the front rank of Maritime
intercollegiate athletics. Vice-President is Bob MacDonald, prominent Canadian football player, and former stay of Dalhousie English
rugby Remene. Teo the position of secretary-treadurer, come Larry Levine, prominent in, among other things an Arrows baseball blazer.
Bob Knickle has had con- ability ag well as a fund of exsiderable experience this yeay in perience in campus activities.
administrative duties as manag- Larry Levine takes the positer of the flourishing Inter- ion of secretary-treasurer, also
faculty Hockey League. He is by acclamation, a job requiring
also first string right winger on 2 lot of hard work, for which
the Dalhousie Varsity hockey Larry has a solid reputation.
Tigers, and at the moment, one Next year should see further
of the team’s leading marksmen development in the fame and
with four goals and two assists Prowess of Dalhousie atheletes
in four games. and athletics, and the newly e
Bob MacDonald was captain lected executive should be able

to carry on and expand the good

 

outfit this year, and brings ito
his post considerable leadership

work of Windy O’Neill and his
executive this year.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

JUNIORS DOWN Q.E.H.
TAKE LEAD IN SERIES

 

 

Dal’s Gals
ae

Sport

By Bev Huntingdon

 

D.G.A.C. activities have only

been conspicuous by their absence this week, as the rope ladders of H.M.S. Pinafore, though
taking up quite a bit of room,
were hardly suitable either for

gymnastic or badminton nets.
Though D.G.A.C. lost out in the
contest for the gym., lets give
three cheers for the “winnah”
Geoff Payzant, and acknowledge
the tremendous credit he deserves as an outstanding trainer
and manager.

The Three basketball teams
had a practice warm-up on Monday in preparation for the remaining games this season, and
while talking of basketball games,
I think special mention should be
made ef Holly Fleming, who has
either timed, scored or accompl
Cont. on page 10

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

Friday, March 5, 1943

 

 

 

DAL TROUNCES LIZZIES IN LISTLESS GAME
LEAD 1-0 IN BEST OF THREE SERIES

The Dal Junior basketball team lapsed into the doldrums again
last Saturday night, but stumbled to a 45 -to-24 victory ovey Queen
Elizabeth High School in the first game of a best of three final playoff round for the Halifax Junior championship. The Tigers reached
the final round when the Dartmouth Boys Club forfeited the semifinals after being crushed in the first game of a two game, total

point series,

Although they led all the way,
the Tigers would have been beaten if it hadn’t been for the sharpshooting of Syl Gossae and the
inept shooting of the losers. The
Tigers were completely stalled
at times by the shifting defense
of the Lizzies and could never
get their wide-open attack rolling. In the final five minutes of
the contest, the high school squad
faded and the winners made their
margin of victory very impressive.

Dal scored immediately after
the opening whistle and slowly
built up a lead. It wasn’t until
the ten minute mark that Q.E.H.
S. could seore their first basket,
but then they put together a
string of six points and pulled
up to within three points of the
Tigers. Dal steadied, however,

and held a 23-to-17 halftime advantage.

 
 

what type of insurance
is best for me?

The opening minutes pf the
second half saw some of the
worst basketball of the season as
only one point could be scored
in the first five minutes. The remainder of the game was wild
and shabbily played with the Tigers clinging to a small lead.

Gossac, red hot on set shots,
racked up 19 markers to take
high scoring honors. Dipe Marshall and Herb Rosenfeld were
the best of the other Tigers performers. Earl Smith and Arpy
Robertson were standouts for
the Lizzies.

The line-ups:- DAL — Gossac
19, Rosenfeld 7, Marshall 4,
Mahon 3, Morrison 3, MacDonald
2, MacKay 2, Palnick 2, Shaw 3,
Tanner.

Q.E.H.S. — Drysdale 6, E.
Smith 5, Rogers 5, A. Smith 4,
S. Robertson 4, Crane, Fancy,
Warnell, Lane.

THAT’S THE QUESTION a DVA student who was
also a father asked a Mutual Life of Canada representative. In his particular case, the Mutual
agent recommended an “Ordinary Life” policy
which gives the highest protection for the
lowest cost of any policy with a savings feature.
He also suggested a “family income” clause
which, for a very small additional premium,
assured the student’s family a regular monthly

income in the event of his death.

But in life insurance, what is best for one man
may not be the answer to another’s problem.
Individual responsibilities, circumstances, living expenses, must all be carefully studied. Your
Mutual Life agent is equipped to do this. He
has been specially trained in adapting life in
surance to each person’s particular needs.

Take advantage of his expert counsel mow. Ask

him to explain the many advantages of Mutual

low-cost life insurance.

THE

MUTUAL [IFE

HEAD OFFICE WATERLOO, ONTARIO

 
 
 

: a, ‘ + 7 je ) J
aa .
. | , K | ay G &

 

_ PINE HILL UPSETS FAVOURED MEDS

 

 

 

3 - TO MEET KING’S

IN INTERFAC FINALS

 

Medicing went down, to defeat before the rampaging Holy Ter
‘rors of Pine Hill at the Arena last Monday, and the Pine Hillers
skated into the Interfac League semi-finals against King’s. The game

was fast and rugged and although it was somewhat ragged, the pace

never slackened. Dalien, Smith

and MacKenzie were the pick of the

Pine Hill seam, while Vair and Ross shone in front of the ever
steady Moffat, former U.N.B. star in the Medicine goal. The play

changed hands several times during the game,

and the outcome was

in doubt until shortly before the final whistle.

The seore at the end of the
first period was 3-1 in favor-vof

_the puck-chasing Pine Hillers.

MacKenzie stood out in this session as the outstanding figure on
the ice. But Al Smith set up
both MacKenzie’s goals and scored the othey one himself.
Medicine, down two goals,
bounced back and scored three
goals without a reply from Pine

_ Hill to take the lead. The Stud
leyites showed a complete reversal of form, and outplayed the
theologs throughout.

However, as the third period
progressed, it became more and
more apparent that Medicine had
shot their bolt, and the Pine Hillers forged into the lead, scoring three times without a reply
from the Meds. Dallien shot two

of the Pine Hill goals, with Al
Smith notching the other one.

Smith also drew assists on Dallien’s two markers.

Al Smith stood ont as the star
of the game, figuring in all of
his team’s goals, For Medicine,

Vair, Ross and Moffat were the
pick of a hard hitting team.

LAW DEBATES

In keeping with the practice
of the profession of which they
form a part, the boys from the
Law School htve always taken
& prominent part in interfaculty
and intercollegiate debating. In
it not an uncommon sight in a
Dalhousie debate, to see four

 

 

 

DGAC ELECTS
OFFICERS

A general meeting of the
D.G.A.C. was held at noon on
Tuesday for the election of officers for next year. Frannie
Doane was re-elected President
while Nancy MacDermaid was elected Secretary-Treasurer. The
sports manager for the following yeay were also elected and are
as follows: Basketball — Bev.
Huntingdon; Badminton — Jan
Robertson; Tennis — Bettie Petre; Ground Hockey — Marg.
O’Neill; . Swimming. Pat
Snuggs; Archery — Jerry Johnson.

Plans

 

for a banquet on Munro Day were also discussed and
Marg. O'Neill placed in charge
of the banquet committee,

mmdiespenepSglaipepieredailabssih ea tee Nt
Law Students- battling it out amongst themselves in a Sodales
debate. In fact it has even been
said by some of our fellow students from Studley that a lawyer in qa debate is a master of
saying a lot, yet saying nothing.
Of course, that is not entirely
true, because the main reason for
such remarks is that Arts students ae unable to follow the
legal reasoning they teach us

down at Forrest, which is not *

surprising, because the legal
mind is a weird and wonderful
mechanism,

 

What ties go best
with an ARROW shirt?

ARROW ties,

of course!

With the perfect-fitting Arrow collar, naturally
you want a neat-knotting tie.

Well—as any Arrow college man will tell you—
than an Arrow tie there’s no neater-knotter.

See your nearest Arrow dealer for Arrow shirts
and the ties that go best with them.

P.S. The well-nigh perfect combination,
calls for Arrow handkerchiefs
color-mated with your shirts andties.

ARROW SHIRTS

 

  
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
      
 
   
    
        
 
   

 

   
   
  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

war ieer :
s =~ .
> ‘ > Pst

   

 

 

 

 

ie Gordie Read, slick King’s wingman, is shown above potting the
goal that won the Interfac hockey game at the Arena for his team.
The Kingsmen won 4-1, and eliminated Arts & Science from the
hunt for the League championship. MacCochran, who had 32 drives
to handle for the losers, seems to be looking for something, quite
probably the puck. But he’s not seeing it. The shot deflected off
Mac’s pads as he moved to his left, and the disk rocketed into the
back of the net. The headgeared figure in the background is “Spud”

Murphy, Read’s linemate who started the play. ......

eeeeee ee eee eee

 

Dalhousie Teams Gain Split

In Swimming Meet At Acadia

-Dalhousie natators won their first swimming title in fouy years
at the Acadia pool last Tuesday night when the girls swimming
team copped first place at the Maritime Intercollegiate swimming
meet. In the meet which was a seperate title affair the boys team
came in third, with Acadia and U.N.B. placing in that order. In the
girls events Acadia and U.N.B. placed second and third.

The meet was one of the best
held in many years with the com
petition being particularly stiff
in the boys events. Individual
stars of the meet were Acadia’s
Jim Gawley who swam the best
100 of his career, and Marg
Eustace, the Ann Curtis of Dalhousie. Margie set new records
in the. 20 and 40 free style
sprints. Pat Snuggs, capable Dal
backstroker set a new record for
the 20 back sprint and the girls
80 yard relay team of Marg
O’ Neill, Carol Logan, Bryna Levine and Marg Eustace set also
broke the previous existing record. The final record of the five
smashed by the girl’s was made
by the 60 medley team of Snuggs,
Logan and Eustace.

One of the outstanding events
of the evening was the boys 100
free style with Gawley of Acadia breaking the record he made
last year. Hunt of U.N.B. and
Woodward of Acadia were neck
and neck with Gawley going into
the latter half of the fourth lap.
Gawley started his sprint. three
quarters of the way down lap
four and streamed into a lead
on the turn. Woodward and Hunt
paddled for second placing with
Hunt coming in 2 seconds before the Dal man. All three times
broke the last year’s record.
Lack of reserve strength in relays dropped the Tigers down in
the listings.

One of the outstanding events
of the meet was the driving com
neers,

The best indoor and outdoor
sporting equipment

is found at

THE SPORTS
LODGE

86 GRANVILLE ST.

“Play More — Live Longer’”

 

U.N.B. (Sepala, Noble, Pelton,
petitions which were taken by
Don Harrison and Jean Bowers
of Dathousie Harrison on his forward Jack and one and a half
somersault, dives three and four
of his routine had bad luck with
the board and dropped down in
the scoring but made a sensational comeback on his three optional dives to win the meet with
a seven point lead over his
nearest competitor. Jean Bowers
stuck to the simpler dives and
except foy her first dive gave an
exceptional performance. Her
final dive, a jackknife with half
twist was the best dive of the
girls competition.

The Tigers were cheered on to
victory by a bus load of rooters
who went down with the team.

Men’s 40 Breast — 1. Acadia,
Harding; 2. Dal., Harrison. Time
26.

Mfn’s 40 Back — 1. U.N.B.,
Caddinhead; 2. Dal., Churchill;
3. Acadia, Frank. Time 25.2.

Men’s Diving — 1. Dal., Harrison, 58; 2. Acadia, Clendenning; 3 U.N.B., Worthen.

Mén’s 100 Free — 1. Acadia,

Gawley; 2. U.N.B., Hunter; 3
Dal., Woodward. Time 60.3. New
mark.)

Men’s 160 Free Relay — 1

Hunter); 2. Acadia; 3. Dal Time
84,2.

Women’s 60 Medley Relay —

= Dal, (Snuggs, Logan,

Eustace); 2. Acadia; 3. U.N.B.

Time 41.1. (New mark.)
Women’s 20 Free — 1. Dal.,

Eustace; 2. Acadia, J. Titus; 3.
U.N.B., Barker. Time 10.4. (New
mark.)

Women’s 20 Breast — 1, U.
N.B., N. Gibson; 2. Acadia, Hines
Time 16.

Women’s 20 Back — 1. Dal
Snuggs; 2. Acadia, M. Titus; 3.
Acadia, J. Titus. Time 25.2. (New
mark.)

Women’s 40 Breast — 1. Acadia, MacGowan; 2. U.N.B., McGibbon. Time 39.1.

Women’s Diving 1. Dal.;
Bowers, 34.1; 2. Acadia, Stewart;
3. U.N.B., Gillies.

Women’s 80 Free Relay — 1.
Dal., O’Neill, Bowers, Eustace
Levine); 2. U.N.B.; 8. Acadia:
Tim. 48. (New mark).

ae

Page Five

 

SEMI-FINALS

BOINGGG!

KING’SMEN DUMP
ARTS & SCIENCE

Bumps and bruises were a dime
a dozen at the Arena Tuesday
as the King’s Blues subdued Arts
& Science in a sudden-death semifinal playoff game in the Dal
Interfac Hockey League. The action was fast and furious from
start to finish, and at the end
King’s skated off the ice with
a clear cut 4-1 triumph. Neither

   

  

team needed little urge to mix it, ~

and broken sticks and bruised
bodies littered the ice after eac
rush. '

King’s dominated the play in
the first period, but had to skate
off with a tie, 1-1. They outshot
the Arts & Science squad 14-4,
a fair indication of the play.
Gordie Read slapped in Dave Wilson’s caroom shot at 14.50 to put
the Kingsnren up 1-0. However
McKim had knotted the count
within fouy minutes, and the period ended with both teams
deadlocked,

The Kingsmen ‘continued to
skate rings around their opponents in the second period, but the
stout work of Mac Cochran kent
the lid on the game as far as the
Arts and Science men were concerned. Once the blond netminder
robbed diminutive “Spud” Murphy as the scrappy King’s winner came in alone. However, persistence paid ‘off when Gordie
Read took a pass from Murphy
and slapped it past Cochran to
give King’s the
second time in the game. The
Blues outshot the
9-2.

Arts & Science showed their
best efforts in the final canto, but
they wilted under the pressure
in the last ten minutes, and King’s
whipped in two goals to insure
thei; victory. Morrisson got the

first one no more than ten sec
ends after his line-mate MacKillop had been thumbed to the
cooler by tooter toting Leslie. The
King’s left winger sped down his
wrong wing, circled the net, and
hooked the puck behind Cochran
as he sprawled to the side. MacKillop got the nicest goal of the
same some minutes later after
a heady play by Doe Morrisson.
The shots in this stanza were 9-6
for the Kingsmen,

King’s now meet. Pine Hill jn
a two-game. total-goa] series to

decide the League champions.
First Period;

2. KANG*s nes Read (Wilson)
14.50

bo

ARTS & SCIENCE — McKin
(Smith Fellow ) 18.00

penalties — MacDonald, MacKillop

Second Period :
3. KING’S
Murphy,) 9.36

Third Period;
- KING’S — Morrisson 10.15

>. ‘KING'S: MacKillop (Morrisson) 17.18

penalty — MacKillop

veceritnbibiipial assert ail
ICE CARNIVAL

(Continued from Page 3)

——

Read (Harley,

na

Lownds, last year’s King, at the
dance. Awards were also presented to the three stars of the hockey game played earlier in the
evening. These three stars were,
Anne Tompkins, Crystal Merrick
end “Fuzz” Foster.

Chairman Bernal Sawyer announced that the use of the
Forum, and the transportation
from the gym to the Forum hFleetline busses were contripule j
free of charge in order to reduce expenses and to further the

cause of the I.S.S. appeal for
funds.

lead for the.

paper eee ete tee on es

 

Studleyites 
*

 
I ba

 

GLEE CLUB...
HMS PINAFORE

 

by Laurie Allison

The popularity of the works of Sir Arthur Sullivan is as much
due to tha soriehtty humor of the libretos of his collaborator William
S. Gilbert as to the composer’s superbly fitting music. The words of
the texts and the accompanying melodies were 80 fused as to appear inseparable to the listener. This was the fundamental problem involved in the Glee Club interpretation of H.M.S. Pinafore.
The fact that the chorus and orchestra overcome this obstacle gave

_ Dalhousie the finest musical production ever presented by a student

group here.
| Geoff Payzamt, the choral director and producer after months
of enthusiastic and apparently untiring rehearsals with his soloists

and chorus, excited the same spirit of vitality and humor into his

performers. The cradle into which vocal parts fitted was successfully supplied by the concert orchestra, under the direction of Frank
Padmore. This accompaniment was all it should have been --- an
identification with the vocal parts, and the balance between th
two, with a few exceptions was extremely well knit together. The

pompous ~humour of the overture and the opening scene established

a@ mood which carried through each performance, lifting the audiences
along with it.

Of those who appeared as soloists, six were most outstanding:

Lloyd Soper, as Sir Joseph Porter, K.C.B., lived up to his part

' magnificently offering his lines with the precision and directness

required. His outward appearance and ease on the stage, coupled
with a superb feeling for his part, made Soper’s performance the
‘most outstanding.

The part ‘of J osephine called for a very pretty actress with a
beautiful voice. Eileen Cantwell filled the bill, successfully injecting into her performance the innocence, dantiness, and mental conflict needed as the lass who loved a sailor.

Tenor Maynard Tayltr, as the humble Ralph Rackstraw appeared far too humble. Although possessing a fine voice, his acting was
‘poor, with the result that many of hs lines were merely recited. However, his vocal efforts, coupled with his position in the play between
Josephine and Sir Joseph more than made up for this defect.

The excellent stage appearance and superb diction of Alan Wilson, in his role of Captain Corcoran, together with a heavy but very
warm voice, added much to his pleasing presentation of the part.

Of all the soloists, Julie Kaplan expressed more feeling in her
part than any other, and from her first and difficult entrance she
carried her audience alimg. Although the volume of hey vioce dropped
too low at times for the listener to follow, Julie compensated for
it by her appearance and her heartwarming version of the role. Her
last comic scene with Alan Wilson showed that both these performers
possess the acting ability necessary in a complete performance of Pinafore.

Displaying a fine sense of rhythm and voice projection, Bernie
Creighton played Dick Deadeye. But his stage action was aninated
to such a point as to harm the value ofthe speech of other players,
end furthermore, to show the uneven balance of acting throughout
the whole play.

Among the minor soloists, Stan Pearson proved to be just the
type of boatswin the comedy called for, and his pleasing stage appearance, especially in the dance scenes, “was greatly to his credit’.
Anne Thexton gave a pleasing presentation of the Cousin Hebe. Occasionally her delicate interpretation of the part lacked the projection needed to fill the gymnasium.

The Chorus supplied all that Pinafore required in mass vocal
parts. The male chorus was given more scope for action on the stage,
and when the girl’s chorus entered from the wings, the smooth precision of their action was well nigh miraculous, in view of the smal]

. amount of room available. Their projection on the whole was excel
lent, with the exception of a few sluggish cues, which unfortunately

caught them off guard. The entire chorus fromed a comfortable
background for all the musical action which took place in front of
‘them. Much credit is due to the soloists and chorus who gave so
much of their time to make the performance a sucess.

The amount of work done by the stage crew, that seldom seen
and seldom thanked group, without whom no show could go on, was
certainly noteworthy in this show, For the care and the energy put
into the construction of the stage settings, credit is due Ukie Veikoff and his erew of helpers. The girls in the make-up and costume
departments gave unhesitatingly of their time, especially in the making of extra dressess for the girl’s chorus. Few students realize the
part the electrician played in lest week’s performance, in addition to
his fine handling of lighting effects. Ray Fiske is the man who went
into this business in minute detail, and was responsible for the accoustical miracles created in the gymnasium with the new speaker system,
so that an even balance of sound projected through the entire hall.
H.M.S. Pinafore proved the value of the work he put into this project.

It is interesting to note how far the concert orchestra has come
along since last year’s performance of “Trial By Jury”. Notable in
this sense is the string section. Although small, their tone and pitch
was good, and their volume strong. However, there is &till a lack of
co-ordination between the string section and the wind and brass sectiens. In addition, a lack of confident. balance between the orchestra
and the singers on stage existed. These defects were remedied a
great deal with each night’s performance, and did not hinde; the
interpretation of the operetta.

Again it is noteworthy to remember that H.M.S. Pinafore was
entirely student performed and directed, and Dalhousie should be
proud that, even though we possess no formal music department, we
have enough talent among the student body to present suecessfully
such an ambitious effort.

 

   

EDITOR'S
MAIL BOX

The Editor:

The executive of the DAAC
for 1948-49 will be Bob Knickle,
President; Bob MgcDonald, Vicepresident; Larry Levine, Secretary; all elected by acclamation. I
feel that the circumstances should
be explained to the students so
that every one will k gbout
it, a

The nominating committee had
great difficulty in finding qualified students who would take on
the onerous tasks. Six were nominated, two foy each position as
per the constitution but three of
them declined. We ceglled for
nominations from the floor at the
Student’s Forum, for presentation. at the DAAC forum, but
none were forthcoming.

The managing committee do
not feel that an unhealthy condition exists, for if the students were
not Satisfied with the progress
of the DAAC and the candidates,
there would be a relative show
of controversy.

We feel that the new executive is the best we could possibly

 

 
 

a - e
caf « ¥ f

Se ot O89 wm
8 ee ae ie et | & 8 &:

F ae £44 HF ie ie oat
es et; € F ae Oy
. Rien *D 2 » a

” —s “
‘ o a
Pa ee |.
ni é

 

Friday, March 56, 1948

Munro. Day Program

 

10:30 --- Special Convocation Service
1:00 --- Hockey Game (Girls vs Faculty)

© 2:00 --- Basketball Game (Interfaculty Finals)
3:30 --- Quartet Contest & Beard-Judging..
4:30 --- Parade & Judging of Campus Queens.

5:15
Residence.

--- Supper & Supper Dance at Men’s

7:00 --- Presentation of New Council and Alumni

Address.

7:15 --- Presentation of Awards.
8:15 --- Munro Day show.

9:15 --- Crowning of Campus Queen.

9:45 --- Dancing.

 

have and we wish them all the
luck in the world in their intention not only to carry on the
progrgmme started this year but
te bring Dalhousie to greater
athletic heights.

Sincerely,

T, Be (Windy) O’Neill
President, D.A.A.Q.

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

. te % iat >.

"There's a good type for the fratemity|"
» Perfection .: . check!

opening bid with a Sweet Cap.”

st > Vue
e Be? * . ”
Eb
. 7
»
& "4
}
2 ¢*¢e.
=~
>
es :
P .
ese
‘ a >
ei es: hy
~
3+ i
j , . st
eet, :
‘
sf ae
J
ae
~
ie
nn
}
i
|
}
Sede

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form-in which tobacco can be smoked™

Let’s make our

NOTICE

 

The lateness of the Gazette
this week is due to the decision to
include.. a .Munro ..Day ..imsert,

thereby causing extra work for

the staff. |

 

¥

 

 
 
  
  
 

, aS ime risa 0 Lee rr
. { ALS Ar iy ai

AY t ini

Ant, ere

e. Ye oF

ea
' J

= SS TS = i : —— a es ee ee ee

   
   

a a
\

‘I ¥ f ,

‘Pe Caves
parent, ce

aes Fh) les
fief

ef
ans

 
 


 

 

 

 

 

 

        

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ -e
~— 66 , K ° a?
| A Queen! A. Queen! --- My Kingdom For A Horse!’ (Shakespeare)
LUCY CALP — MARG EUSTACE
Ot ath . rai jiael,
| Lucy ‘came 1 Us mpors, Seat This is Marg’s :first year at.
John High ‘School where she star- Dal: wis aa Q.E.H
red in basketball and had a fine ee Se ne em
scholastic record. where she excelled in sports and
eS She is 5ft. 5% inches tall, has other activities. She took an actblack haiy and brown eyes and ive part particularly in . basketis one of the most popular ball and swimming and contrifreshettes on the campus. /
) ee , buted greatly to their success.
Fi On arriving at Dalhousie Lucy
A continued to star at basketball At Dal she is on the intermediate’
and made the girl’s first team. Girls’ Basketball team, and a
She also upheld hey scholastic star free-style swimming perfor, record by passing all of her mer. She has also taken up
Ph Christmas exams. | . :
| , hockey with enthusiasm. She is
Fame first came to Lucy at ;
the Millionaire’s Ball where she welt" knows (to) ai oie are
was chosen as the Sweate;, Girl modelling activities, appearing
of the year. . in both the Weod’s and the HalLucey is representing Arts & . . . ifax Chronicle’
Bier eh ELSIE CRUICKSHANK ifax Chronicle’s fashion shows.
” Science in the annual Munro Day LUCY CALP Medicin MARG EUSTACE
’Campus Queen competition. Arts & Science re Arts & Science
- BARBARA QUIGLEY | ELSIE CRUICKSHANK | HOLLY FLEMMING
Hailing from “Spud Island” Elsie hailed ; eas a Pius te hep first year: €
nineteen year old Barbara Ann | Sydney, but now crosses the Arm olly is in her first year ComQuigley brings to the Dal cam- Suey, morning from Jollimore. | merce, having come here from
a pus an added charm. Prior to This is her fourth year at Dal, | Netherwood last fall. She comes
her registering at Dal she spent rie cone ENS. ane ae ner from Rothesay, N.B. This year
: Pn ae Beined | Gf Wales § ‘eon, active, part I aD. L whe ia belne aa
) ) ta yy re Ss g sponsored by the
College on the fair Island. A of Campus activities. In her first ee ee a sek a
first year student in Science, year she was a member of the / iced y for Campus
. Barbara Ann has taken an act- | Midlothian Society, and was on | Queen, and it is expected that
ive part in coed athletics. Last the badminton and swimming | gh, will be introduced by the ini ) year Barbara was a strong mem- ne a next a5, ee A on | imitable MacBrewgall (of the
; : executives o elta Gamma
ber of the renowned tennis team. oo Pea ACG? tl atbts sy arn Dew). She stays at Shirreff Hall,
and this year she has played with Mabe ee TE Deer aie | eteten daa" otkn G
. the Intermediate team. she has been on the Girl's Vars- | ‘ a Gamma
ity basketball team. This year | and on the executive of the D.G.
Barbara Quigley --- Pine Hill’s | she is President of Delta Gamma, | A.C.
choice. and President of Alpha G
ey ia eee | HOLLY FLEMMING
. Pine Hill | Commerce Le
% pve
* ‘
fF | a
Coronution Of A Queen At 9:15
KAY STACK JEAN MITCHELL NANCY JONES
- | i
Kay crossed the continent to Hailing from the home town, No introduction is needed for
F attend her father’s Alma Mater, ; Jean Mitchell is a girl with noble | the King’s belle, Nancy Jones. A
who graduated’ from the Law | ambitions. Graduating this year scphomore in Arts, Nancy, an; School in 1913, and was admitted | ¢,.m the Pharmacy school Jean | Other one of those Haligonians,
hi to Dentistry after two years on | js going to continue towards a came e us from Edgehill in 1946.
, Studley. She is a keen student of | Boe A hard course this year Nancy’s versatility in the field
music, and some of us remember | has kept Jean from the athletic 9% qyetica, bas. brought, her
her graduation recital in voice | activities which she enjoys --- high renown on the campus.
from the Halifax Conservatory; | but little can keep her from her Nancy has starred on the Dal
she also has her L.R.S.M. accustomed place in her church Tennis, Hockey. and Ground
. pipet nT Hockey Teams as well as th .
This year she is President of cho ee Pew si ivmleet ts) | moet . Cer- minton and Bask thall ae
~ Pi Beta Phi;*Secrétary? of the | t#inly an amet. Pharmacy’s| fo ine tite college. Bat
| oh ; Pe és Dents Society; earlier in the year choice, nineteen year old Jean, Nancy’s oan ey ot Bit
i ASF AB BeBe. | is a favorite on the ca 3 : y = mmm.
KAY STACK a ie Se Queen of the “er King’s has made no mistake in
rae ardi Gras Ball. voting Nancy as their queen.
CY NANCY JONES
; . Kings’
GWEN LUGAR
is A true Haligonian is twenty JANELL MacDONALD
year old Gwen Lugar. After gradation from Edgehill in 1946 Gwen This is Janell’s fourth year at
was engaged as a Junior Sports Dal; she came here from Halifax
Instructer at the Bishop Strach- Academy in ’42, and was Vice- |
cf an School in Toronto. A longing Bitckident of dis: tine
for the Maritimes, however, runt SS a re a
brought her home again and, that year. She was active in badfortunately for Dal, to Dal. Since minton, basketball. She is a memher arrival here last autumn bey of Alpha Gamma Delta, was
he Gwen has made a name for her- its Recording Secretary, and is
; self in athletes, holding down ita’ Biditor for the :
a berths in the tennis, ground hock- St de eae
q ey, and’ basketball teams. Re- as well as Recording Geceotary.
wi cently she won the girl’s singles Janell took a year or two off to
/ event in the badminton tourna- get a Secretarial diploma at Mt.
\ fees 40 8 en . tas JEAN MITCHELL a aie ER ARE TO: Wha
4 ie siete. | Se tat) ch : JANELL MacDONALD There she was again Vice-Pre-“
Gan Bat atahys, Law Pharmacy Engineers sident of a Freshman class.

 

 
   
       

¥
i

‘NEEDED

| ae arepaise has a total Student Council fee of $13.
The necessity for an increase can be shown gimply by showing what disadvantages financially
the Council operatés under, and by showing that other
colleges with a lesser burden have much higher fees.
Gee ak Ay Acadia, U.N.B., Mt. A., and St. F. X. the
ss University pays for rink and coaching. Here the
- Gouncil supports these. At these the University pays
for playing fields; next year our Council must pay
for a football field while the Studley fields undergoes
repairs. |
~~ At these four, smaller Universities the Council
fees are much higher. At U.N.B. a non-resident student pays a total of $24-; at Acadia $25.; at Mt. A.
$31.25; at St. F. X. $18. These are smaller Universities, but their fees are higher.
Some of us pride ourselves on the fact that Dalhousie is the largest University in the Maritimes, and
‘therefore its leader. This might be so if the Council
could afford it, but at present standards Dalhousie’s
student effort must be even more limited. The Year
Book must be small; the Gazette cannot join the Canadian University Press because it might cost too much;
intercollegiate sport might have to be cut down on.
Tf you, as a student, want Dalhousie to take her proper place as leader of the Maritimes, vote the increase
which will make her financially comparable. L
| VOTE “YES” TODAY? NOW.

  

 

‘ i
the) pli oe

 

?

  

Oe

 

 

ELECTION RESULTS

———

 

_, Although the initial election has been declared invalid by a special meeting of the Council of the Students,
the GAZETTE publishes the following results for the
reat number of students who have taken part in the
-cleetion by their voting’ — a number unheard of 1
‘Dalhousie elections.
1,121 Excercise Franchise
STUDENT COUNCIL

President;

 

 

Law Med A&Sc. Comm. Eng. Dents Phar. Total

Boudreau 12 180 124 16 40 18 17 407

McKinney 10 4 221 101 59 8 2 405
Rhude- 152 13 71 22 34 5 12 309
Vice Presidnet
‘Cox i70 117 200 74 74 19 25 605
Sawyer 5 40 154 60 59 12 5 335

_ Plebiscite

Yes 82 45 215 87 61 7 20 517

No HORGe MESS) 198 44°90) = (20 8 562

‘COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVES )

Law
ema Seba x -shley ade ada 92 SCM 7 H Id
Ba oh en 17 O ©1i0

" O H
MeLeod i... BeOS, 108 pen ouse
MORON 12, i sta Le e> addntnsavanttee ih 99 Pea aR
RA cevcess>-sapbdensitepensasigs 92

Drain Cs Ramee ene gi, The Dalhousie Students Chriset . tain Movement will hold its

Commerce go usual Sunday evening get- toa, Boe uae gether in the Common Room of

MacDougall ns...see-stersereoreeees Alicia Bestdeties) wechbadine’ to

Pharmacy an announcement made by John
POV ZUSOM oseeeeeseeeneelecrertesneneees 24 Simms, president of the organMGLVET chive nce cect eee e cece reteee neers 6 ization.

Engineers The meeting will begin at eight
Stewart we cectsceseseagwesssssserererress 83 forty-five and will consist of a
Cull Vel Vernccdccstnseregesconprcesenecbe:cs 72 social gathering with refreshCollins deebaseeseeseteescaeeeee weeveserees 51 ments served latey in the evening.
MH OMISEOM fie slecedeevetescaseseseeot 42 ;

Arts and Science

Senior Boy S d id
Be emilee +o Student Al
Noel Hamilton ...............4.--. 15% “

Senior Gir Still Needed
ROOD: ig Riss ar oisued cep partaedornd hee 229
SPIRE its eeng ue ht 180 ——<—_—__..

Myf ‘ During th» Gouncil elections
Junior Girl '
many students pledged their
MMM RREIN Shu thy dees dicot canpeede’ tie seshs 230 are ;
caution deposits to ISS. Many.
MIE Perk al ths ch ye esmoanis ds cnnahies 181
ay | ‘ however, were unable to do 36
Junior Boy ; f
; because of a delay in getting the
IEEE es (a ell saedapnccss tons 236 i
. pledge cards to the various poll| a 153 bas tithe

wr ‘Phe ISS Committee - will mail
PUTS ODA} oeiiant ice veone operons 236
PRR es Rai di detp Saddle dovxdeseans- 165 cards to those ‘who’ were unabl.

to sign at the booths, and, accordDELTA GAMMA ing to Bernal Sawyer, ISS Chair
President man, many more students are
“Budge’ Archibald (large expected to volunteer their con
majority) tributions. Meanwhile students

Vice President way sign by dropping in at Room

Betty Petrie (large majority). 14 in the Arts Building.

 

 

| ‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| Quartette ?

 

To the stains of “Swing Low
Sweet Chariot” in the background
of the Gazette office I am trying
to tell all you innocent readers
about Munro Day. My ears are
ringing with the melodious strains
of this and many other airs that
have been floating around the
office for the better part of two
hours. But what I am trying to
tell you is that the Gazette Quarette is now in the formation. This
was not a long thought out plan

but it came as a sudden inspirat
ion to one of the editors who was
even kind enough to provide us
all with mouthwash at 45c a
bottle. This Quartette is one of
the first of its kind in captivity
and if they pass the test on Saturday they are sure to be a hit
in the Munro Day Show.

It is really quite a skillful
quartette for they are even good
at reciting poems, many of which
1 have never heard before and
never hope to hear again when
I am not in the sanctuary of the
Gazette archives. Rehearsals for
the poem recitals and the songs
are being held next Saturday in
preparation foy the great day of
all days — Munro Day.

The Gazette Quartette was only
crganized this afternoon as the
staff was trying to think of ideas
of how .to fill this week’s ten
page issue. Various beverages
were on hand to help keep the
veices mellow and then suddenly
the very desks seemed to burst
into song, or rather a groan, and
it was on. Yes, the melody burst
forth and was taken up by all
present. For a while the office
was in glorious song while the
eares of the world flowed by.
Now out of all this we have the
Gazette Quartette which I anf?
sure will take the first prize in
the Munro Day show if they continue to do as well as they have
done this afternoon. |

It seems that I have digressed
from the original point of the
story which was to be Munro
Day but I am sure that this group
of fellows will be one of the highlights of the festival if not the
highest.

 

 

MUSICIANS UNION
WAIVES RULING

On D-Day, March 8 at CJCH,
Dalhousie amateur musicians will
be heard with professional union
members, no stand-by musicians
will be paid for the work of the
non-union members, and the
union members will be able to
volunteer their services. -- Thanks
to the local branch of the American Federation of Musicians.
This step in the right direction
is a far ery from the stand of
the Union"in times past.

The result is that listeners will
be able to listen to such talent
as Don Warney and his orchestra,
and ithe sorely depleted coffers
ef the Students’ Council will not
be burdened in any way.

To the local branch of the
Musicians Union we say.
THANKS!

Ninety per cent of all the teachers in Greece were killed to
prevent them teaching the lessons
of democracy. The Canadian

Appeal for Children puts books
and pencils into the hands of
thousands of knowledge-hungry
children.

Friday, February. 27, 1948

Award Winners Of ’48

\

 

Gold D

Glee Club:— Patricia MacKinnon, Jerry MacKay.

Silver D

D.A.A.C_— Bob McQuinn, Reg. McColough, Cyril Morgan, Don
MacKeigan, Thomas (Windy) O’Neill, Bob Knickle.

D.G.A.C.— Elsie Cruickshank, Marg O’ Neill,
Patricia. MacKinnon, Frances Doane, Verna Leonard.

Gazette— Lew Miller, Jack Lusher, Art Moreira, Bob Tuck.

Sodales— Phil Arlitt, Don Harris, Bill Cox, Whitney Dalrymple.

Delta Gamma— Dot Cullen, Helen Powell.

Pharos— Ron Caldwell, Marjorie Archibald.

Student Council— Ross Hamilton.

Honorary— Marjorie D’Aubin.

Pat Snuggzs,

Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society — Dramatic Awards —
Pauline Allscp, Patricia MacKinnon, Gerald MacKay. — Concert
Orchestra Awards — Donald Theakston, Les Single, Bernal Sawyer,

Maleolm Parks, William MacDonald, Cyril Bugden, John Bustin,
Catherine MacKinnon, Bill Christie. — Chorus Awards Maynard

Taylor, Eileen Cantwell, Julia Kaplan, Allan Wilson, Lois Cowan,
Allan Macintosh, Vernon Wallace, June MacKenzie, Elizabeth Mahon,

Yvonne Cougle, Helen Powell, Bernice Hoffman, Donald Chipman,
Glee Club President—Fran|; Fleming.

 

 

What Is Munro Day?

 

On July 9, 1881, the Governors of Dalhousie University dealt with a petition from the students asking
that each year there be a holiday named “The George
Munro Memorial Day’ in celebration of the great benefactions of George Munro mentioned above. The petition was granted, and the third Wednesday of January
of each year was set aside as “The George Munro Memorial Day’’. In the course of years the name has been
shortened to “Munro Day’. In the year 1928 “Munro
Day” was celebrated on March 9, and President A.
Stanley MacKenzie reviewed the history of Dalhousie’s
benefactors. The special guest on that occasion was the
Right Honourable R.B. Bennett, who was referred to
as one of our great benefactors himself, and the cause
of other notable benefactions. Since that time, the names
of all our benefactors have been associated with “Munro
Day’. In 1938 the Senate decided that in future Munro
Day should be celebrated on the second Tuesday in

March.

I

    
   
   
   
   
 

—_————— prea sia eM |
PEVANGELINE |. SHanMACYT

' Commonly known as JOE’S |
| 280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. 8.

Studley Drug Store
29 Coburg Road
Fader’s Drug Store
141 Hollis St. |

 

   

 

 

A Complete
PHOTOGRAPHIC RS Awe
SERVICE... .
@ SUPPLIES iene
@ EQUIPMMENT GREEN LANTERN
@ REPAIRS

@ ASSISTANCE

 

the

CAMERA SHOP

of the Maritimes Ltd,

‘The sign of a good meal’

407-409 Barrington St.
26 BLOWERS ST. — 3-8524| J _

|
RESTAURANT
|

 

 

 

 

 

eee 1
C" A S I N O | DANCE PROGRAMS
|
|
| Our new line of dance proStarting Sat., Mar. 7 grams is smart and different.
IT HAD TO BE YOU Committees will find new
; | ideas — but not expensive.
With | HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

CORNELL WILD

American Gem Society
and

GINGER ROGERS

Registered Jeweller,
Halifax, N. S&S.

Pog

“a4

  
  

pes
“es *

¥ }
?
¥ ~

bo ‘eee

b
} THE ARTHURIAN LEGENDS

tea sae Chapter | Papi
“A NIGHT ROUND THE TABLE”

 

The meeting of the second moon of March. in the
year of our, Lord 365 convened at sunset. Presiding
in the absence of the King was Friar Porkington; in

_ attendance were many well known knights such as Sir

Earnest Spitoon, Sir Carpenter, Sir Lack Mack (or
Mac), Sir 111 Luminous, and that right venerable old
knight, Sir Jake Ronkin. The meeting was called to

discuss matters of

Dullhousie Forest.

policy pertaining to the ill famed

_.The meeting opened with Frair Porkington holding
fourth on the situation at Dullhousie. “Gentlemen,”

quoth he “matters there seem to be worse than ever. 
As you all know, Dullhousie is the place at which the
king has chosen to keep his store of silver and gold
spurs, which he presents to his knights of particular

merit. But it seems that a certain group of the inhabit
ants of the Forest have broken into the royal stores,
and are even now spreading the awards among themselves indiscriminately. Forsooth, sirs, this has got to

1?

stop

“IT am in agreement with your

words, Friar.” warbled Sir Lack_

Mack (or Mac). “We cannot
allow these ignorant Dullhousians
te even see these valuable awards.
They might get ideas of grandeur. But, who are the people responsible foy this outrage?”

“It appears,” answered Friar
Porkington, “that the actors in
the district were first to break
into His Majesty’s stores. For
some time these scurrilous rascals have been discontent with
thier lot: ever since they were
banded together. into the Dullhousie Societie for Glum Shows.”

Yea, Rily, I remember when
that came to pass,’’ warbled Sir
Lack Mack (or Mac). They were
banded together by a subversive
group of scholars from Rome,
ealling themselves the Interpatria
Societus Suckers, I believe.”

“No,” called Sir Carpenter
from the far end of the table,
“that is a scurvy lie. There is no
such thing as that Societie, and
we have nothing to do with the
despots in Rome. We are only...”

to stop these crimes. For if every
one of these ignorant Dullhousians should wear these spurs,
the value of those we are even

now wearing would be. lowered.”

“I disagree,” argued Sir Spitoon. “I believe that the Dullhousians are. entitled. to spurs,
especially their actors. For, be

it known, gentlemen, that the |

actors have done wonderful
things in the past years, They
have presented to the populace
with great. success shows which
were first resented on the Via
Broad in Rome. I think they deserve spurs.” ;

“Nevertheless, said the Friar,
“that is no excuse for these actors breaking into the royal
stores,”’

“Yes, We should stop them.”
said Il] Luminous. “We should
get a grant from the King to
quell the uprising.”

“In ’48, when I was nvolved
in uprising at Dullhousie, we get
no grant from the King.” grumbled Sir Jake Ronkin. “Therefore, you do not need one.”

 

AeA LS

‘ ‘
Mac). “I am addressing Sir Jake .

Ronkin. I agree with you.”

“Gentlemen,” pleaded Sir Ili
Luminous, “we must put down
this uprising, and we must have
funds, Sir Jaje,-we must.”

“I believe we are all in agree
ment on that point, Sir Jake.”
ebserved Friar Parkington, levelling his pike at> Sir Spitoon and
Sir Lack.Mack- (oy, Mac). Aren’t
we, gentlemen?”
“Oh, be all means.” shouted
Sir Spitoon and Sir Lack Mack
{or Mac) in unison. “We agreé
most heartily.”

“I thought you would see it
my way,’’ purred the. Friar.

“Alright, then, as the Treasur
er of the royal reserves I grant

you five times sixty plugged nic
kels.” said Sir Jake, giving up
the battle
your
these.”
“Fine.” said Friar Porkington.
“But, gentlemen, in case you are
not fully convinced of the baseness of these Dullhousians, let
me relate to you one of the
rumours circulating about their
use’ of these spurs. Not only
have these actors given the spurs
to themselves, but they have

also awarded them to lesser people.”

glorious campaign

“Yoy may carry onwith |

" “Please, Sir,” interrupted Sir “Jake,” said Sir Spitoon, “I...”
§ fll Luminous; “remain on’ the “I agree, too’ warbled Sir
| yo? subject. It seems to me, Friar, Lack Mack (or Mac)

i that we shall have to send a “Pardon me,” said Sir Spitoon,
} force of our army to Dullhousie making a face at Lack Mack (or
i

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  

A New Brunswick baronet, a distinguished
research chemist, the son of a former LieutenantGovernor of Nova Scotia, and the retiring president of Acadia University will receive the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Dalhousie
University at a special convocation Tuesday,
March 9. |

Sir James Dunn, L.L.B. (Dalhousie), president
of Algoma Steel Corporation; Dr. Jermain Creighton, native of Dartmouth, N. S., and professor
of chemistry at Pennsylvania’s Swarthmore College; Major Alistair Fraser, traffic vice-president
of the C. N. R. and son of the late Hon. D. C.
Frazer, and Dr. F. W. Patterson, president of
= Acadia, are the men to be honored.

Si; James Dunn, Dr. Creighton and Major
Frazer are graduates of Dalhousie.

The special convocation, which will begin at
10.30 a.m. in the University Gymnasium, wil!i
take place on Munro Day. Named for the late
George Hunro, Dalhousie’s first great benefactor,
this day is now observed as a tribute to all of
Dalhousie’s benefactors.

Henry Jermain Maude Creighton, B.A., M.A.
- (Dal), D.Se. (Zurich), is head of the department
of chemistry, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore,
Pa. He is a son of Mrs, H. D. Creighton and
brother of Miss Marjorie Creighton, 33 Church
Stree, Datmouth, Nova Scotia, At ong time he
instructed in chemistry at Dalhousie. Since then
he had a distinguished career in teaching and
research, and is noted for his research work on

—_—

i¢@

7 4
=

  

 

FOUR HONORARY DEGREES TO BE
-* GIVEN ON MUNRO DAY MORNING

“Oh, Deus mea,” cried Sir III

 

 

Dr. Creighton has been honcred by the award
of the Longstreth Medal, the Potsgold Medal,
and other awards of the American Chemical Society. and the American Flectrochemistry Society.
During World War II he was engaged in important research for the U. S. Government.

Sir James Ham¢t Dunn, Bt., LL.B. (Dal), LL.D.
(UNB) was born in Bathurst, N.B., and graduated from Dalhousie in 1898. He has extensive
financial and industrial interests in Canada and
Britain. Among othey offices, he holds that of
president of Algoma Steel Corporation Ltd. Fur
his services in World War I he was made Baronet.
Throughout the years he was maintained his  iuterest in Dalhousie and the University’s Law
School =

Major Alistaiy Frazer, B.A. (Dal), LL.B. (Dal),
M.C., K.C., traffic vice-president of the C.N.R.,
was born in New Glasgow, Nova Seotia,.a son
of the late Hon. D. C. Frazer, formerly Lieutenant-Governor of Nava Scotia. He had a distinguished record in World War I. As a major in
the 15th Canadian Battalion, he was wounded
in 1916, won the M.C. and became A.D.C. to
the Canadian Corps Commander. In 1919 he became general solicitor foy the C.N.R. and later
was appointed vice-president in charge of traffic.
He too has maintained a deep interest in Dalhousie.

Frederic William Patterson, D.D. (McMaster),
LL.D. (U. of Alta.), president of Acadia Un
iversity, was born in Saint John, N.B. in 1877.
(Continued on Page L0)5

 

No |. BvT Tr
Have a

 

Luminous. “you don’t mean that
they have given them to...”
“No, worse than that, the acters have given spurs to a_ pet
dog.” replied the Friar. “I believe it is a dog named Cesspool,
which constantly, roams ‘around
their showhouses: looking for
stage lamposts. It seems that this
Cesspool walked across the stage
jn front: of them‘ during three
shows, so they claim he is entitled to one spur, at least, if not
two.”’ “apr 3 .
“Certainly he is:”-<said Sir
Earnest Spitoon. “Few. dogs there

are in the land that; would have. '

the self-possession to do such a
thing.”’

“I agree.” warbled Sir Lack:

Mack (or Mac).

“No, I’m. sorry,
said the Friar, again levelling
his pike at the two, “we will.definitely have to send the army to
Dullhonsie. All agreed?”

“Certainly!” all the knights
round the table yelled, as they
rose to their feet, clicking their
spurs together. _

“Then, gentlemen, we can move
on to different business.” commented the. Friar.

The knights resumed their

stools, and, resting their heads

 

both games,

the: ducky’

gentlemen,’ 
Co-ed News

 

. And Views

STUDENT. =}:

The last two weeks have been
busy ‘ones'for the gals. The basketball meet came off as soothly
as we’ expected: Both the Mt. A.
and Acadia teams arrived in all
‘their glory and, with a minimum
of misfortunes, got settled. Our
co-eds are so generous that they
even arranged blind dates for
the teams to the dance in the
lower gym Friday night.. Generosity, it seems, will be rewarded
because the Dal second team won
and- winning the
tournament is no small 'aécomplishment.

Looks: as though’ the gals are

. Boing out for the Campus King
_, campaign in a big jway! Some of
_ the ' Greighton- supporters cooked

up the idea of selling fudge to
inhabitants of the
Men’s Residence. (Well, the boys

‘are’ still looking pretty healthy).

Neither the students noy-the Professors had a chance when they —
were approached by some of the
fast talkers wielding their I.S.S.
bottles. On behalf of the LSS.
and Bernie Creighton, Shirreff
‘Hajl held an auction: last Sunday

“night. Everyone coritributed some
thing to‘ “the cause” and at ten
thirty the bidding started. Everything from gold ‘sequined belts
to pipe tobaceo (naturally not

.-foy the*girls)' was sold. Serious
ly though, everyone “backed .the
drive, and the..canmpus ‘has been

“most cooperative, ©

After Munro‘ Day, the campus
King will “have. a Queen. The
Dal Queen of; the campus will
be chosen as usual by a group of
prafessors, and will be crowned
at. night in the gym. And after

~Munro Day ....... You. kriow!!!

eternal ite Sie ESL
on. the table, whilé other important business matters of the kingdom weré, brought up ‘and passed upon, remained so until sunrise,. at, which time -they* all re
turned «te: their: camps. All but
Sir Spitoon,; who remained behind to count the number of sik
ver and gold spurs hé would present to his knights that very day,

DELICIOUS DARK CHOCOLATE
with ROASTED ALMONDS

ak er...

 

ee RQRRTE DS SPEDE eS
ce

5 ‘ i - > “a ee ee” ce
Seat act “ae - .
~< ae i. me as -s
Wee > et A : pe ye a
i ded bie) hd 2 ae =i) — 9 us hs ee eee

Pe oe

‘
.
«by

sets

 
ie ee ea —~ eh el a ae eee ee ee i La = a ee ee pee ee SS 2 Se ~~ ae .
saneh Hitter rare ee ee a ee yy — i . aeons TE ela Ee ee ee ee Tur.) eT = I:

Peek a

em,

Poa es | Wee ny = Fai Fr De ee AP . af 1e. > iy ‘“ ‘

p Ps sis enor! fet * _— im : ¢ 7 4 a . i aes ~ y = ee i pe

act ae oe eo eee fy? wed i iA. F 7 a? us FP 4c% ee - y = 4 er AST we ‘ as ~!

wx 3 7 - ar ‘ ‘ ‘ i ae. an ai oa b i ; ‘ : Pe. Ret pen 4 et
i = a al oe are : er : ki 9 : ’ ft CF a ‘ « ; BS e

~ a s | ht ; hd “s Xs : 7 errs Bas fi Sy its r

Oval tall ag) Jam

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Friday, March 5, 1948

“SWAP NECKTIES” DAL GALS FOUR HONORARY DEGREES TO BE GRANTED —Cont. from P. 9

| tells. to six ties you're 7 One of the most distinguished educational leaders and Saskatchewan. From 1906 lee he was
Z . You'll receive pronte (Continued from page 4) in the ae he has been president of Acadia pastor - re oe ae yield
rs elegan . eet ther gs since ; tist” and from ° e was
bathed sen eee a ie eo eae oe o Dr. Patterson attended the high school at secretary of the Baptist Union of Western Can“pay” Pikian” $1.00 oa minton the way is now cleared Woodstock, N.B. and the Provincial Normal School ada. In 1916 McMaster University conferred the
pt of ties. | for the doubles tournaments to at Fredericton. In October, 1899 he was ordained University of Alberta honored him six years
q Tiddily Ties, proceed, and in Ping-Pong, the as a Baptist minister. Among pastorates he held later with an LL.D., while Mount Allison Univers
P.O. Box 1236, tournaments will be comine off were churches in Minnesota, Manitoba, Alberta, ity bestowed its degree of D.C.L. in 1945.

_Saint John, N. 8. soon.

The Girl’s Hockey Team, managed by Polly Phillips, and coached by Windy O'Neill, “has been
largely featured in this week's
sporting events. At Monday
night’s Ice Carnival, sponsored
by the LS.S., the team defeated
the Kampus Karacters by the

_seore of 1-0, the only goal being
scored by Anne Tompkins. It is
scheduled to meet the Imperial
Oi team on Tuesday evening,
and on Saturday afternoon at

bo a ae 99
iP ay h 4 o’clock the long awaited game
i J Cc estra with the Maritime, Tel & Tel
Oo p.m ‘dni girls will be played to an en9 cde ght thusiastic audience (we hope!)

i — per seEe at the Halifax Forum. Let’s have

   

 

 

 
        
     
 
     
     

ar iy om Ve
Fes, 4
J bes a

oe 1g

5 f ha if Be: Tt ; ‘4

  
    
       
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

everyone out for the big game
cn Saturday.

   

== Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

 
  
   
 

COGA-COLA, UTD. Ask for it either way... both “i |

_ lt was a good slogan in war. {t is now a good slogan in peace: HALIFAX trade-miavhs mean the same thing.

 

“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection : 2
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
7 iia Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow- |
: ody and Dried Fruit. !
>

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House

 

 

 

 

You - ne Pi ete 2 Founded in Halifax in 1841
ee, ee 4 : )
_ Corsages :
| A Colonial” Corsage de- ~ a
signed by ROSBDALE |
peaks eloquent volumes |
of tenderness and love. |

>

  
  

: NURSERIES Limited -BARRINGTON fT MAUFAK

 
 
 

THE SHOE OF
CHAMPIONS

wa
weeeee

te - Dal Sridenits —

 
  
  
      
   
   
   
  
 
 
 

  

A welcome awaits you at

feces stops es ioe cool
comfort i in hot competition

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

      

 

 

  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   

  
 

$456 Barrington Street, Loe ’  . | oC tL ) poe on Champions. The Fleet Foot a
op | | ee ey a . 2 “Champion"’, shown here, is ideal for
Wiiktte von will find A i> 4) fr RT” ae eo tennis. Shockproof arch cushion and
~ - ' insole, plus cushion heel, keep feet
_- fF coniplete Music Service | | from tiring. Non-skid crepe outsole |
= : makes fast footwork a cinch. a
< re and the finest CANADA'S FINEST Felt lined tongue protects instep,
te: vale Sports Equipment. CIGARETTE | allows firm lacing. These and
i ee ie _ many other features add up to make
me. the **Champion"’ the finest sports Qs
1. eS shoe you can buy.
te | High cut and oxford styles
me Oe aoe eee LIME. Efe - in men’s sizes. Oxfords in women’ sy
2 US OT egg oa Sas: Bus. in Force Bizes, For petter play — : {
Ee 4 1927 $ 490,242 198,694 $ 5,037,621 =] “empion”!
rt 1937 2,517,808 1,921,027 15,493,749

‘© SPECIAL PULL-PROOF EYELETS
@ SCIENTIFIC LAST
© BREATHABLE UPPERS
© SLANT-CUT TOPS

1947 - 6,679,711 5,690,753 35,674,317
The total Premium Income for the year
amounted to $817,412.69. Interest Income amounted to $248,259.27. The rate
of interest realized was 4.02% on the
Book Vaiue of Ledger Assets. The Assets
of the Company increased 9% during the Soe nec eae Games AiR
past year. a - a te |

il aomaae

Be eaters Reds, 102 ' A. R. FRASER, C. L. U. : ms Se er ae
_ BOB HART — _. Manager Nova Scotia Branch t 1 16, |

em ge mina wae We DOMINION RUBBER MPANY LIMITED

| _ Telephone 3-8745

   
    

 
 
 
 

     
 
 

| | + SHOCKPROOE INSOLE |
is ARCH CUSHION SUPPORT |
os CUSHION HEEL te

  

 
 

  
