 
  

 

OF.

he
\

  

 

Nese
}* i

|

 

 

Ci

ZETTE

  

>
CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Vol. 79

 

HALIFAX, N. S.

FRIDAY,

FEBRUARY 13, 1948

 

No. 15

 

 

AT THE VETS’ SMOKER — — Dalhousie student veterans gathered
at the officer’s mess of the Halifax Rifles and the Princess Louise
Fusiliers last Friday evenimg for an evening of fun and to honour
a man who has been their adviser and friend for several years, Prof.
C. L. “Charlie” Bennett, University Veteran’s Adviser. Tommy Giles,
(above left) is shown presenting Prof. Bennett with a gift on behalf
cf the DKSVA. Prof. Bennett. was deeply moved (above) by the

presentation. Story, Page 3.

 

DR. KERR OPENS 1.S.S. CAMPAIGN

 

Debaters End Unhappy

Season With Loss

[‘o

Strong Acadia Group

 

The Dalhousie Debating society ended their season in the
Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League Tuesday night at the
Engineers’ common room as they
were defeated by a strong team
from Acadia University. The Dal
debaters have a record of one
victory and two losses in their
three intercollegiate debates.

Upholding the affirmative of

the resolution “‘Resolved that the
inner logic of socialism mnecessitates a totalitarian. state’, the
Aeadia debaters won the unanimous decision of the judges.

The Aeadia debaters were
Noel MacNevin, of Charlottetown, P.E,I., and Art Hirtle, of
Halifax. Dalhousie debaters were
Al Baccardax of Poirierville,
N.S. and Earl Urquhart of West
Bay, N.S.

Whitney Dalrymple, president
ef Sodales, acted as chairman,
and the judges were F. R. MacKinnon, Director of Child Welfare; C.R.K. Allen, Principal of
the School for-the Blind and Dr.
Harry Smith of Queen Elizabeth High School.

 

PHARMACY BALL
TO BE HELD SOON

The second annual Pharmacy
Ball, sponsored by the Pharmacy
society of Dalhousie University
will be held at the Lord Nedson
Hotel Saturday night, Feb. 21,
aceording to an announcement by
Bob McQuinn.

The dance, jheld for the first
time last year, was an outstanding affair, and should be even
better this year. Tickets at
$3.00 per couple may be obtain
 

ed from any Pharmacy student,

on the campus.

The dance will be semi-formal,
and music will be provided by
Harry Cochrane’s orchestra.

 

_Even artificial arms and legs
are lacking for some children in
Europe and Asia. Your dollars to
the Canadian Appeal for Children will help replace arms and
legs matilated by war.

 

FRANNIE DOANE

 

GIRLS FAIL TO
PICK CANDIDATE

The long-awaited news of the
nomination of a female candidate for the forthcoming student
elections will not be heard this
year, according to reports emanating from Delta Gamma _ sources.

The Delta Gamma girls held
a meeting Tuesday afternoon in
an effort to select a candidate
for the vice-presidency of the
Students Council. Three candidates were nominated, and three
candidates declined nomination.
The girls were Frannie Doane,
Margery Archibald and Lois Rattee.

The trio felt that they had
neither the time nor the energy
to devote to a task as difficult
as that occasioned by election
to the vice-presidency. Its all
yours, boys — take it away.

SCM Notice

' At the regular S. C. M. open
house last Sunday A _ discussion
panel, consisting of Lois Rattee,
Jim Rupchand and Alex Reid,
spoke on summer work camps,
giving details of their own summers at such camps, and stressing the valuable experience to
be gained. Camps will be held

 

NA CHALLENGE!

The up and coming Dalaousie University Commerce
Society is really getting in
the swim this week. Tuesday
they displayed the utmost
audacity by challenging the
powerful Arts and Science
hockey team — they escaped
with a 3-3 tie.

8 Wednesday, Rusty Milne,

\ leader of the Commerce Bowl
Ring squad issued a challenge
to all and sundry. Anyone
who knows of a bowling squad
is urged to contact -Rusty
Milne. His challenge, he said,
includes all societies, sororities, fraternities, faculties and
misgellaneouS groups on the
campus—girls not excluded.

OIL IIIA: AAAAAAAAAAAPA ABBA SY

 

Q

Campus Kings
Are Selected

The annual International Student Service Campus King contest was in full swing this week
as the girls of various groups
went into hurried consultation
to go over the attributes and
faults of various males on old
Dalhousie campus.

Out of the sausage machine to
date have come three names,
those of Bernie Creighton, Denne
Burchill, and Robert “MacBrewgall.” Creighton is the hope of
the girls at Shirreff Hall, Burchill carries the colours of the
King’s College girls and the inimitable Mr. MacDougall is the
Deta Gamma candidate.

It is expected that the candidates have a great deal of charm
and personality, and any decision
will be a close one. All students
are urged, as usual, to do their
best to help I.S.S. and elect their
own candidate.
Saints Menage se ics oernbains skn
again this year, and all interested are invited to consult one of
the above.

At the open house this week
two films, including “SEEDS
OF DESTINY”, will be shown
in the Men’s Common Room at
8:45. P.M.

 

The King’s minstrel show, held
last Monday evening in St. Paul’s
Hall was judged a great success
by those in attendance.

Canadian Appeal For .
Children Is Declared
To Be A Worthy Cause

 

BERNIE CREIGHTON

__.. — One Alternative — —

 

SECOND SKI TRIP
ARRANGED SUNDAY

——

“Track!”

This will be the cry that will
echo and re-echo through
Wentworth Valley’s snow-laden
slopes this Sunday, Feb. 15 when
skiis and skiers, wax and goggles, lunch kits and first aid
equipment are unloaded at the
cozy whistle stop of Wentworth
for the second time this season.

The trip will be reminiscent
of the last, but an early return
train has been assured, and an
advance party will leave for the
valley Saturday to iron out minor details,

Members of the St. John’s Ambulance brigade will be on hand
in case of casualty. They will
establish themselves on a hillSide for the benefit of those
would-be-professionals.

The last trip proved to be a
complete Dalhousie show, and it
is hoped that this Sunday’s excursion will be the same. The
valley is the week-end rendezvous. of many Allisonians, which
extremely interesting.

“The cause is worthy’, declared Dr. A. E. Kerr, president of
Dalhousie University, Tuesday
noon, as he officially opened ithe
Dalhousie I.8.S. campaign in conjunction with the nation-wide
Canadian Appeal for Children.
The president spoke before a
large group. of students in the
Dalhousie gymnasium.

“Our duty is the duty that.
lies nearest to hand’, and now,
with the war over, we should
think of those less fortunate than
ourselves, the president said.
“We in Canada have been exempted from the immediate results of the recent war’, but in
Europe the aftermarth of war is
as horrible as the world conflict
was.

While “we enjoy good fortune
that is almost Utopian”, half thechildren of the world are exposed to disease and hungey and.
privation.

People looked forward to a
golden age of prospedity and
calm after the war, but older persons, who had lived through the
ist World War and its aftermath,
knew that the dreams of prosperity “would not be fulfilled’.

On this continent, our duty
should be to contribute assistance from any source. A great
deal of help has been sent to
Europe through the voluntary
work of various groups, but there
is still much to be done. “A sense
of human need” prompted what
has already been done, and the
Same sense must be brought to
bear on the present campaign.

“In Canada, making our own
effort, in voluntary ways, we
have launched a campaign for
$10,000,000 to aid children in
Europe”, the president said, “and
we must include” in this category, “students of universities
end colleges in Europe”. :

The at‘itude among students
in Europe is one of cynicism and
despair. There exists, over there,
a great deal of speculation and
despair, and “we are called upon to help”.

“We shall not call it a sacri--.
fice’, for it means only giving

(Continued on Page &)

 
 

 
 

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

* ° . . *
Editor-in-Chief
LEW MILLER
Managing Editor | Business Manager
BRUCE LOCKWOOD AL .RUBIN
News Sports Features
JACK LUSHER BOB TUCK ART MOREIRA
Page Editors

PETER MINGO, JOE LEVISON, J. TRIM, SHERBURNE McCURDY
ANNE DeCARTERET (Literary)

Associates
BUD KINGSBURY, MARJ GOLBURGH, BEY HUNTINGTON
Circulation bias
JAN ROBERTSON, MANAGER, D.- SADOFSKY, M. RITCHIE
JERRY JOHNSON, A. de CARTERET, BEV HUNTINGTON.
Photographers...DANNY SOBERMAN, DICK GLUBE, E. RICHTER
Proof Readers. MIRIAM GLUBE MANAGER. BETTY THOMPSON
D. SADOFSKY

As8istant Business Manager .....-.-..--:--:s-seseesseesesseners ROBIN MacLEAN
Exchange Mamager ................:.ccccccsssscsenesennesesensseenanes PETER SEDERIS
ERNIE es org Lt LUN, SSL alagen iting poo manies opty see cist .. STU WALLACE

Reporters bots

PATSY PIGOT, BOB McQUINN PHILLIP SIMON — Dent Society.

 

Vol. 79 February 13, 1948 No. 15

Friday,

 

PROGRESS IN THE GLEE CLUB

Looking over the reviews in the Gazette of the
last three years leads us to an interesting conclusion.
Mr. Norman, reviewing for the Gazette three years ago
was extremely pleased with THE MERCHANT OF
VENICE, and with YOU CAN’T TAKE IT WITH
YOU. They were something new and different. There
was less enthusiasm a year later; the review for
TWELFTH NIGHT was complimentary, and deservedly so, but less enthusiastic. Still later, the reviewer for
THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER (one of the
greatest diplomats who has ever honoured the Gazette
with his services) said very little in an incredible amount of space. Last term the reviewers said rather
pointedly that AS YOU LIKE IT was not a good plav,
and that it was almost the same as TWELFTH NIGHT,
the only difference beine that it was somewhat poorer. This week Mr. McCurdy says the same thing of
DEAR RUTH, that the actors were good, but that they
had poor material to work with. The complairt is, in
short, that the Glee Club is doing the same thing over
again in disguise.

In the music department alone has there been real
progress. Gilbert and Sullivan was considered a risky

-wndertakine when Messrs. Payzent and Padmere be
gan operations, but they succeeded with TRIAL BY
JURY and we expect that they will succeed no less with
their more ambitious program this vear. But if H.'M.LS.
Pinafore were to fail — an event which we by no means
anticirte--their efforts would still have been worth it,
since the members of their casts had had the opportunity to vork on worthwhile material.

It is about time that the same vrogress was shown
in the dramatics department; students come to universities in order that, among other things, they may
be exbiected to a certain amount of intellectual stirenlws. The Glee Club should provide this in drama. We
are rot saving that the Glee Club should go long-haired,
but thot it might, if only for a change, try something a
little less exactly like that which we have had for three
years. Some people claim that the Glee Club is in for
a bad period, as though it were subject to imevitable
periodic depressions. It is simuly that variety, quite apart from being the spice of life, is sometimes the secwet of success. Furthermore, Shakesneare wrote very
few of the type of comedy that the Glee Club has accustomed itself to using. Last year Acadia ‘Ulniversity put on OTHELLO with, we are told, considerable success. There is no reason why we could net do
the same; at all events, we should try to do something
a little different.

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

EDITOR'S
MAILBOX

A CHALLENGE
Dear Sir,

I can “sincerely deny that the
Arab is getting a dirty deal’,
any time, any place, any station, and back it up with facts.
So—oo__.what say, Mr. Blofield
to you and a friend joining me,
plus a friend, in a public debate at Dal.

The Gazette hasn’t enough
room for me to correct all your
errors OF Omissions, in your last
letter. If you are so. strongly
convinced of the justice of your
ease, you should welcome this
epportunity to expose “Zionist
tctalitarianism’’ which is ‘“‘wrong
in principle and impossible of
realization’. If you are willing
to debate the topic, please contact the Gazette Editor, and we
will arrange the discussion.

Oh, yes!! the man who made
the above quotation, Henry Morgenthau, seems to have changed
his mind slightly, according to
the newspapers, who report him
now as an ardent Zionist.

With reference to the con
stitution of the Jewish Agency,
I will welcome the opportunity

of explaining any of its sect-—

ions in our public debate. For
now, the main idea of the section you quote, is to encourage
Jewish workers to toil on the
land—tsk ! tsk !

As for the landless Arabs, the
length of Jewish history, the
promises of McMahon and the
Shereef (what was ommited in
your quoting, meaning the dots
—...) racial discrimination and
the facts and story of Zionism,
and the story of the Arabs, all
these can be discussed thoroughly by ourselves and by the audience, who may have some quest:
ions, in our public debate.

See you at the public debate,
that is, if you are still firmly
convinced of the justice of your
ease, Mr. Blofield.

YOURS
Don Harris

Eee |

Children on two thirds of the
face of the world are in dire
need of help. YOU may help by
contributing to the Canadian Appeal for Children.

There are two children’s hospitals in China to care for 200,000,000 children. The Canadian
Appeal for Children seeks to better that record. Send your donation NOW.

CLASSIFIED ADS

PRAAPAAPARARAADRAIIOO rn rn’
Note: A demand from several
students for this type of advertising has prompted the GAZETTE to introduce this column.
For information re rates contact
either the Editor or Managing
Editor.

WANTED

A student vet is willing to pay
$5.00 for the information that
will lead to his acquiring a small
furnished apartment at the end
of the term. Information to be
forwarded to A-1, Classified Ads,
c/o GAZETTE,

 

Friday, February 18, 1948

  

F you’ve never smoked a burley tobacco,

you'd be surprised how it keeps your tongue
cool, packs so easily, burns smoothly, and stays
lit with a minimum of light-ups. You can smoke
it all day long, and still come up for more.

 
   
   
   
 

Picobac is the pick of the Burley crop, grown
in sunny southern Ontario, where climate and
soil are the secret ingredients for a mild, cool,
satisfying smoke,

GET SOME TODAY!

  
        

Visit the new WILLIS store — Attractively set up depart
ments featuring —

BOOKS .- RECORDS - MUSIC - ELECTRIC APPLIANCES

PIANOS

Willis Piano Co. Limited

127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.

eee

Balhauste University

Halifax. Nowa Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes

Degrees of:

inclusive Feee

Law, Medicine, Dentistry,

Women

Residences in the Dominion Residen i i

| : ‘ ce i

in the University Men’s Residence. ores
of two affifiated institutions or im

Special accommodation is provided f

The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction
et
Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engi i |
Bachelor of Science Bducates

Bachelor of Commerce Music :
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy f

Master of Arts Hospi
Master of Science Mining. Gan

Pre-Professional Courses

Fonour and Advanced Courses in
many de
in the B. Se. course about $210.00 cee

in the B. A, Course average about $160.00 » year

The Professional Faculties

enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Seen eclt Rn)
Residences
students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s

rst year men

live in ei
selected and approved Toco os

or married and si -servi
students, ree ”
Meals for all students are available at the U
For full information write te THE ni ISTRAR.

Other men students

 
    

VoL 79

 

GAZ

\

   

ETTE

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
HALIFAX, N.S. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1948

VETS HOLD FIRST SMOKER

 

INTERFACULTY ACTION
— — Cresby Scores — — °

 

 

INTERFACULTY ATHLETICS
APPEAL TO STUDENT BODY

— By Bob McQuinn —

Jehn MacCormik, Physical Di
urally, is “Sport for the Athlete,”

other however is “Sport for

@ « has two mottos. One, nat
the Student”. This latter is the reaSon for the great resurgence of
imterfacultty sport at Dalhousie in the last few years. This year especially has seen great advancement in this organization. A great
deal of equipment has been provided due to an increase in the Budget and now all teams are outfitted with team sweaters and the hockey teams have ovey.thirty pairs of gloves and shin pads to make the

going easier.

The great thing about interfaculty sport is the large numbers
of students able to take part. Football alone has a following of over
eighty enthusiastic students, who, given the chance, were willing to forfeit at least one dinner hour a week to play one of the roughest
games going for the greater glory of their respective faculties and
also to have an hour of healthy fun and conditioning. The same goes
for basketball and hockey in which sports there are over two hundred active participants. Considering that no varsity players are
allowed to take part in these sports, this organization takes care of
a very large percentage of students.

A great many students who, upon entering college, find they
have either not enough talent o, not enough time to participate m
varsity sports, figure their athletic days are over. This is the main

(Continued on Page 8)

 

# THE GALLOP POLL®

Cenducted At A Fast Trot

By Pesty Pigot

 

As the end of the school year
looms up in the not-too-far-away
distance, and the exam lists are
posted, thoughts among the Dalhousie students are already
whaping up for the school year
1948-49.

Patsy Pigot, Dalhousie researcher, discovered that students on the campus have been
holding quiet httle discussions
avout freshman initiation in past
years, and freshman initiation
im the future.

General belief is that the ordeal should be cut down from a
week to three days, but that the
pressure on the young hopefuls
should be increased for the short
period. Only a few expressed faveor of the traditional seven day

One of those in favor of the
seven day initiation was Ross
Kenway, a freshie-soph. He said
"Yes, it shoukd be a whole week
but the face ‘goo’ should be cut
down, and instead they should
be made to do, or carry, something funny. What made the kids
mad this year was the shoe-polish and lipstick’.

In general it was agreed that
although the paraphinalia should
last only a few days, the new
students should definitely wear
thei, placards, or some _ ident
ification, for at least a week,
so that everyone can get to
know the names of freshmen students.

As Caroline Logan put it, it
should be “Short and sweet,.....
but not too sw

 

 

No, 16

 

s Popular Professor Is

Honoured By Veterans

 

RCAF Plan
To Employ

Veterans

 

The RCAF’s Summer Employment Scheme, under which Air
Foree veterans attending Canadjan Universities returned to their
old Service for the Summer
months last year as Reserve officers, is to be continued this
year on an expanded basis, it
was announced today by Hon.
Brooke Claxton, Minister of National Defence.

Plans are being made to step
up the number of students taken
in to the Air Force under the
plan to 150 in 1948, in place of
the 84 who donned uniforms last
Summer after leaving campuses
across the country at the end of
the school year. Former officers
enrolled in science and medicine
will be given preference, although others arg eligible. Stuents will hold commissioned
rank up to flight lieutenant, and
will receive equivalent pay.

The Summer Employment Scheme is designed to train the stugents in the various specialist
branches of the Service through
their university careers, and the
type of work done by each fits
in ag closely as possible with the
course the student is taking at
university. Majority of those who
returned to the Air Force under
the plan last year were engaged
in such technical work as seronautical and construction engineering, photography, signals, armament and the medical branches,
24 being emphyed in research
and survey work for the Institute of Aviation Medicine in
Toronto. The students were employed at Air Force stations across the country, and at several universities. Graduates are
eligibl® for permanent commissions in the RCAF upon completion of their professional
training.

The term ‘of employment last
summer was for 14 weeks, but
in 1948 veterans will be employed for a full period of 20 weeks,
at standard rates of pay. This
policy was inaugurated in order
that veterans could be gainfully
employed throughout the entire
summer holiday period.

All veterans interested in taking advantage of the Summer
Employment Scheme should
write to Central Air Command,
RCAF Station Trenton, Ont., or
to North West Air Command,
RCAF Station Edmonton,

 

 

Members and guest of the Dalhousie-Kings Student Veterans’
Association exchanged reminiscences and war-trme songs at
the Halifax Armouries Friday
night at the first annual Vets
Smoker, held in the Officers
Mess of the Halifax Rifles and
Princess Louis Fusiliers.

High spot of the evening
came when members and guests
paused briefly to cheer their
comrade and guest of honor,
Prof. C.L. Bennet as he was presented with a watch on behalf
of the D.K.S.V.A. by President
Tommy Giles.

“His actions” | said the president, “have stamped him as a
friend in the hearts of all who
have had contact with him’. During the post-war years in which
Prof. Bennet has more than ably
held the position of Veterans adviser, student veterans have
feund him to be more than a
counsellor. His has been a position of great responsibility and
he has handled the multifold difficukties with energy and insight.

The largely-attended smoker
was deemed a great snecess by
those present. Energetic singsongs were conducted, bloodthirshy war stories went the
rounds and the smoke thickened
as the evening wore on, ‘“‘Lile
Marlene” and “Tipperary” echoed through the dark interior of

_the Armouries where many a

famous Canadian regiment has
rustered.

Executive of the DKSVA in
charge of the smoker were President,Tommy Giles; Vice President, Bob Mitehell; Treasurer,
Irvine Millie; Chairman of the

Housing Committee, Neil MacLean; Secretayy, Ralph McKnight.

 

H. M. S: PINAFORE

AT MONTH’S END

The Dalhousie Glee and Dr:matic Society, having completed
two thirds of its major works
for the school year 1947-8, will
bring its program to a close Feb.
25, 26 and 27 with the pesentation of the Gilbert and Sullivan
cperetta, H. M. S. Pinafore.

Frank Padmore with the Dalhousie Orchestra, and Geoffrey
Payzant with the Glee Club orchestra, have been holding long
rehearsals almost every day of
the week for several months. The
chorus is expected to be composed of over 80 voices, the largest chorus ever to appear in a
Glee Club production at Dalhousie, it is believed.

Following close on the heels
of the successful presentation
the comedy Dear Ruth, Pinafore
should be largely attended, and
enthusiastically received.

 

Debaters
Win Over
UNB Team ‘'

A Dalhousie University debating team Saturday night won a
~cgularly-scheduled debate of the
Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League against a strong team
from the University of New
Brunswick.

Representing Dalhousie in the
debate, held in the engineers’
common room, were Alf and Don
Harris. U.N.B. debaters were Jira
Lunney and Eric Teed, both
Saint John, New Brunswick.

Upholding the negative of th>
motion “Resolved that the Carn
adian Senate should be an elected body”, Dalhousie won by a
vote of two to one.

Whitney Dalrymple, president.
of Sodales, acted ss chairman.
Judges were T. D. MacDonald,.
Deputy Attorney wentias, L. S,
Sarty, of the staff of Queen:
Elizabeth High School and Dr.
Tan MacKinnon, of Pine Hill:
Divinity Hall.

 

BEARD-GROWERS
OPEN CAMPAIGN

While final returns for the
Munro. Day Beard-Growing con
test not yet been compiled, at
jeast five students have started!
to grow hair.

Out to win the title of Dai
housie Beard-Growing Champion
of 1948 the young hopefuls will
be easihy distinguished from less
courageous students. “Fuzz” Foster, favorite to take the contest
is already out in front with a
fine growth of whisker.

Students entered in the contest
include G. S. Roy, Gordon C.
Burden, D. Kain, J. A. MacAulay
and of course the inimitable Gerry “Fuzz” Foster.

Dal Debaters
Meet Acadia

Dalhousie’s debating teams,
fresh from a victory over U. N.
B. in the Maritime Intercollegjate Debating League, took on
the Acadia debaters Tuesday
night. in the Engineers’ Common
Room at 8 p. m. The subject was
“Resolved that the inner logie of
socialism necessitates a totalite ian state.” Dal supported the nev-.
ative. .

Dal debaters were Al Baccar—
dax and Earl Earouhart.

 

 

 

 
Rel IY a

t 6 Soae et ? ae SU — .
y ue if) OAs — 3 y :
vie tines uy, Lenin A tort in pyar | * iptae peo tee Ren ily 2 Le gar ie Se ca ae ps ad pein arene ates wr oe
; é . sis 2 ay
uF
>. . 3

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE , February 13, 1948

   

  

 

 

 

And it will get a lot greatey before the final

 

his belly pad. A few minutes later he did the same thing to another St. F. X. break-away, this one a solo effort by the X-men.

9.22 p.m. The period ends, and the teams retire to the dressing rooms. This St. F. X. rink is not much bigger than a band box,
and the ice surface is narrow to the extreme.

9.35 p.m. The second period has started, and St. F. X. is going all out now, and the Tigers are being backed right in. A lot
of freezing the puck along the boards is going on, with the result
that there are a lot of whistles.

9.40 p.m. We score! Bob Knickle took Lee’s pass, and rifled
it into the net. Dal has been coming strongly in the past couple
of minutes, and it paid off after a ganging attack in the St. F. X.
zone,

9.42 p.m. Willy Robertson just pulled off the play of the. game.
The Dal left winger took the puck in his own zone and burst dowr
the left wing lane in a tremendous display of speed that :made the
Antigonish team look like clay pigeons. He cut in front. of the net,
but delivered a backhander into the goalie’s pads from abotit a foot
out. Incidentally, Marty MacIntyre in the Xaverian. goal has played a very steady game:

9.45 pm. St. F. X. scores on Dune MaclIntyre’s shot which
went between Leslie’s legs. The Tigers seem ‘to have suffered a
relapse, and they are fading.

10:00 p. m. St. F. X. just took the lead for the second time in
the game as Chaisson took a pass from Chouinard from behind the
net. Dal looked weak on the play, which was one of those split second
aifairs. The defence should have had the play tied up, and Leslie
closed his legs too late on the shot.

10:07 p. m. The period ends with the Tigers behind by what
looks like a very big one goal deficit.

10:17 The final period starts, tremendous.
whistle blows.

and the tension is

10:30 Nearly ten minutes of the third period have been. play‘ed, and the X-men have been enjoying a slight, edge in the .play.
Leslie has been a real tower of strength in the net. Dunc sa re
is flying for St. F. X.

19:32 p. m. Bobby Adamson has just received a, bad the over
eye and has gone to the dressing room, The crowd is razzing

his lef:
Windy O'Neill, and the Breeze is thriving on it, playing great hockey.
Whenever he steps on-the ice, the noise starts. » 
16:40 p. m. Windy scores! And the crowd is deathly silent.
Perhaps they feel that it was their enthusiasm for riding Windy
that tied the game. The play is now tighter than ever.

10:47 p. m. Leslie has just kept the Tigers in the game with
two very fine saves on screened shots. The first one, from the blue
line, tareaded its way to the battered Bliss through a maze of players, and ha caught it. The other one was labeled for the far corner

‘on a left-wing shot. The Blister deflected it with his toe, moving very

quickly as it came whizzing into sight. And just a‘'few minutes before he had to retire to the dressing room to get’ a gash above his
eye attended to.

10:55 p. m. The bell goes to end the game, and the scoreboarl
reads 3—3. A good game, hard fought, and just about even-stephen
on the play. Thinking it over, and looking around, we can’t help
feeling what a great thing it would be for Dal to have a rink of her
own. Not too big a rink, one with a seating capacity of about 2,000,
would be a great investment, not only from the point of view of
student utility, but from the financial angle as well. Here we are,
paying out hundreds of dollars a week for the use of ice surfaces
in the city that aren’t even handy, and from which we seldom, if

. ever get and gate on our own games. Dal games in a Dal rink would

pack the place. Mount Allison is setting us an example we should
not let go unheeded.

 

 

period, and St. F. X. scored two
goals in the latter part of it to
resume the lead. Dune MacIntyre
shot the first one, and Chaisson

D.G.A.C.

By Bev. Huntingdon

 

5

 

 

All seems quiet on the Dal
front. ‘‘Deay Ruth” plus accompany paraphenalia filled the
gym, last week, while this week

ghosts haunt the place stalking
around “with their heads tucked —

underneath ‘their arms,’’ letting
out eerie chuckles as they await
the arrival of Acadia this weekend for the return basketball
match—and plan to send the Valley Co-eds home in a _ similar
plight. Badminton finalists will
be known next week and hopes

‘are held for an ice-hockey game

with the Tel & Tel girls. Hockey
funds are low and it is hard to

budget for Forum ice. News of
the availability of King’s Pond
would be appreciated throuznh,

and also a girl’s team from King’s
for us to practice beating (Editor’s note: watch the fur fly
now!)—-say! Is that what’s been
Lappening to Wendy’s God Liver
Oil?!

Despite Frannie Doane’s attempt to annihilate the team
(learning how to shift gears on
the bus) everyone arrived safely; and.having gulped lunch
(Acadia trying to give us indigestion__or do they always eat
to the sparring grounds to meet
the Acadia gals. Often the score
ls hot the, most important feature of a game, and I believe
that this was the case last weekend, when Acadia won 24-17—
for our girls put up a splendid
fight and showed capable ability.
Pat Snuggs as a shot, and Betty
Petrie as a guard really chalked
up a fine game, while Frannie
Doane, Marg O’Neill and Eileen
Landrigan each turned in a
good showing. The whole team

was good, and Pat McKeigan

announces that we can quote her
on saying that if we win the
interecol'igiate title she’s going
to see that the girl’s get those
pins with the miniature basketballs suspended from them.

 

 

passing plays cramped by the narrow ice surface, and players like
Willy Robertson particularly,
found themselves hindered by the
proximity of all sorts of bodies,
sticks and boards. Windy O’Neill
and Bliss Leslie proved inspirations to the team, and Paul Lee
was deadly in a scoring way. For

St. F. X., Dune MacIntyre, Mac- ©

Gillvray, Chouinard, Marty MacIntyre and Cleary were outstan
ding. | Fs
SUMMARY
. First Period;
1. St. F. X. — Morrison (Chouinard).

29 DAL. —- Lee (Robertson)

 

 

aD

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

WHAT IS A° THRIFTY’?

WELL.

We made an adjective
Into a noun, that’s all.

A’ thrifty”

 
 
 

is a person who looks for

Three ingredients in every clothing purchase:

1. Style—good looks, comfort, fit.
2. Quality—fine fabrics, fine workmanship,

3. Value—your money's worth and more.

It means a person who buys Arrow products.

PS—You'll always get a good deal at your Arrow dealer's,

ARROW SHIRTS

TIES © HANDKERCHIEFS

ee |DA LHOUSIE GAINS TIE
a a ae .
ee eoPrORT
t ‘ | *
Li | * penalties — Bowes (hooking),
ee | R E. P O R I Higgins (hooking)
hs LESLIE, LEE STAR FOR DALHOUSIE Riots — by Dal 18; by St.
am BY BOB TUCK AS TIGERS DRAW WITH N. S. CHAMPS Second Period;
‘aie | 8 DAL _— Knickle (Lee, RoboP) 3 Re ee ae ertson) ;
i hs The Dalhousie hockey Tigers turned in their best performance 4. St. F. X.—MacIntyre (Cleary)
Bh : A nish Friday as they fought - es :
ash J Antigonish, Friday, Feb 6; against St. F. X. in many years at Antigonis z y : Yy Bea St. F. X. — Chaisson (Chouin- .
hee to a 3—3 draw with the defending Nova Scotia champions. e thay
oy 8.30 p.m. Here it is, time to start the hockey game between game was fast and rugged, and bitterly fought from beginning to penalties —- MacIntyre, O'Neill
Bi St. F. X. and Dalhousie, and no referee. The Xavarians are skating end between two very evenly balanced teams. Sougiitne)
Be «round, warming up their goaltender, while the Tigers are in the The Xaverians drew first blood —————_—_ shots — by Dal, 12; by St. F.
ah dressing-room receiving last minute instructions from Jimmy Gray. around the mid-way mark in the the other. The shots on goal were Ri, 42
Re | ‘They had a short, pre-game skate a few minutes ago before they first period as RoErneee cOM- oven. 12--12, but Leslie, as in Third Period:
A ? retired to the dressing room. verted Chouinard’s Pass. He the first period, had the harder 6. DAL — O’Neill (Lée, Knickle)
Here é . ; -piz ; S ‘ ‘
fi 8.45 p.m. The Ref. just came into the rink, in a frantic rush, housie, out-played up eg 'S shots ‘to handle. oe penalties — none
re and is now out on the ice. The game starts point, began to ark 7 nae The third period mounted in chots — by Dal, 7; by St. F. J
qi te and as the period wore on, the | tension as the clock ticked off x 6
. ae yriily Mee er To oe, a ee: td Riera Tigers began to assume control ipe minutes, until the 11 minute van
fi stick, and is over at the Dal bench getting repaired. Bliss had to sn aii play.,\Paul Lee ;tied.. the Te esac aera WARNE vel,
skate out as far as centre ice and bang his stick on the ice’ before eee AED ae paw) ate Pa? ; i : fe
Bu “hi i tw i F full’minute he was knéeling on “©OP® 70! ‘ sponding to the catcalls o '
m eo Ser ea a a } up in front of the net by Robert- “.,owd, sank a beautiful goal after
; ‘the ice holding his head while the play swirled around down at the Wa hs a8 Ata be wail i Ruoes- eee : : aa
ther end. Jimmy Gray is saying to him “How are you Bliss—do taking passes irom oy
: 9 be bla ” a, i | iod were 15—10 in Dalhousie’s pickle. It was the best earned
you feel stunned? No more so than usual”, replies the garrul- or. Both goal-tenders’ were goal of the night, and beat Macous goalkeeper from Grindstone, and after he gets his face wiped Kk dhae: bub Ladie hed? the SUD ENE RNP SELENITE
ory cee “eM harder stops, making unbelievable iaehou and gashes, rose to the
9.10 p-m, St. F. X., after enjoying an edge on the play for saves on two breakaways. heights to keep his nes clear, .
some minutes, just scored, Morrisson shot the goal. Bob Knickle put Dal in front being particularly sharp on
9.15 p.m. Paul Lee just scored to tie the game. after a sustained Xaverian power screened shots. The game ended
9.20 p.m. Bliss has made two sensational saves on break-aways attack had failed to beat the Dal with Dalhousie crowding all a" in the past few minutes. On the first one, two X-men came in with gofence, It was a ganging play in- round the Xaverian goal.
i the whole Dal team caught back. Leslie leaned up against the cross- volving Lee and Robertson. How- Although. the ‘play ‘was fairly
4 bar of his goal, as relaxed as if he had been in the dressing room. yer, Dal was out played in the fast. the Dal team found their »
The next instant he was sprawled on the ice with the puck under
a

     
   

       
   

e

5 mt A ,
; a ab

i AC ety
at + fy 7: ie 4 j

een he
° i»

Th ‘ aud MS) * , e =I / 5 : }
, ay Lorre ane é an BT 7a , ' ah he i : m i
ae a bale Wes esa Vaeky ial pale! Yo rf y
my i 7 va . 4 ‘ : : Cw tle ae 7 ; fa ;
4 ‘ 7 : i tri y OTe ‘ i
’ P ae { y ol £1 rae, j ' vii me ;
4 ; oe ar ? f : “ih ‘ 75 i hk ‘
A, iris? uns f . wee 5 \ 7 i, iy ; ( Mm. ide f { : ‘ ;
Bi ke ’ "el; i e Wy : : i j i
» pe aa , ' ; : 7 ” iM : 7 : :
Ht 7 : e i : ' : mid
ee fet, 5 Lat : / | | f } ‘
wo Vie ghey va i
ah faa ou F ‘
May lh ea ; \
: ‘ i

Oe eed teh ‘ ’ a ees

re Ps A >

i ’ 3 ay) od
ay a miray J . ’ ‘ . ’ ' ‘
7 . 3 . : ~%* 4
q

Friday, February 13;) 1948 THE DALHOUSIE GASETTE

—¢ | . om “Bob McQuinn

fi

       

PAGE FIVE

i

 

 

 

 

 

HOCKEY STANDINGS BASKETBALL

 

 

 

A Dalhousie Badminton team

‘consisting of Noel Hamilton, Al.

Cleveland, Bob Blois, Dave
Churchill-Smith, Yvonne Lebrocq,
Gwen Lugar, Patty MacKinnon
and Jean Bowers defeated Stadacona 11 matches to one in a
tournament played at the naval
base. (Feb. 9.) Although victorious by a large margin, the Dal
team played sloppy. badminton.

ms no

LEGS LESLIE ...

   

ARTS and SCIENCE—3 |

COMMERCE 3 —

Mac Cochrane stopped a barvage of rubber as Arts and Science held Commerce to a 3-3 exhibition tie last week. Shots on
goal were 40-6 as Commerse, led
by Sonny Carson skated roughshod over their opponents. Jack
Lusher played his best game of
the season as he was the stand
‘STANDINGS ©

‘Due tothe presentation of
DEAR RUTH last week in the
Gym., there were no basketball
games played in the Interfaculty

. League. However there was one

exhibition game played before
the play was ‘performed in the
Gym, ° *

PRE-MEDS 21

However, the inequality of the out man for Arts and science. ENGINEERS 21
struggle probably accounted for Summary :* bag > :
this, ae tend In a close checking well played

MEN’S DOUBLES

 

1. A. & S.—Lusher (Crosby)

basketball game Engineers and
Pre Meds fought to a ‘21-21 ex
Hamilton ek Claes uit ide 2. Commerce—Carson (MacCul- hibition. tie: Jeske. topotecan
feated Monckton and Denis 15-9, logh) team has yet won a game and
2nd Period Renee ory 9
15-13 Hamilton and Cleveland is Wha this one was a thriller. The score
defeated Cavanaugh and Stewart SO eee a at half time stood at 8-6 for the
15-5, 15-4 Blois and Churchill- rey Engineers, but Pre Meds, led by
Smith defeated Cavanaugh and 3 .. i ex-varsity player’ Sarantos, whe
Stewart 15-5, 16-18, 15-11. Blois a co es i) A, fa ae Cullor! was high scorer of the game with
and Churchill-Smith 1 defeated Mee ne ih ude nee

Monckton and Baker 15-10, 15-10.
(The winning combinations in
the above Men’s Doubles are all
Dal students.)

“LEGS” LESLIE: Shown above is “Legs’’ Leslie, Dalhousie Varsity
goaltender in what is purely a “ham” shot, morosely contemplating a
little rubber puck, which is the nemisis of all goaltenders, not excepting the Blister. Despite the eye patch and the puffed mouth,

PINE HILL 4
PHARMACY 1

8 points, managed to even the
score before the final whistle.

Lineups:- Engineers—Messenger—2, Smith—6, Oakley, Stew

MIXED DOUBLES Bliss is a very fine looking netmindey as well as a capable one. Ex- art—2 Morrow—3, : Single—2

Lugar and Hamilton defeated cept for the occasional blonde in the bleachers, Bliss keeps an eagle Despite the brilliant goal tend- Jefferies — 1, Ferguso n— 4,
Churchill and Monckton 6-15, eye on the puck and never fails to put on a colorful performan e. ing of Bob Beer, Pine Hill em-  Smeltzer. :

15-5, 15-3 Lebroca and Blois de- The Blister’; high school team was King’s Collegiate. (Photo by erged on the long end of a 4-1 Pre-Meds — Dauphinee — 6,

feated Cavanaugh and Timbrell
15-7, 15-5 Bowers and Cleveland
defeated Gilhenand Denis 15-6,
15-8 MacKinnon and ChurchillSmith defeated Ley and Stewart
15-9, 15-2 (The above Mixed
Doubles matches were all captured by Dal students.)
LADIES DOUBLES

Lugar and Lebrocq defeated
Gilhen and Churchill 15-4, 15-6
Lugar and Lebrocq defeated
Timbrell and Ley 15-6, 15-2
Bowers and MacKinnon defeated
Churchill and Gilhen 15-9, 15-6
Timbrell and Ley defeated Bowers and MacKinnon 15-9, 15-4,
18-14

 

Glube and Soberman).

‘“Y”? Defeats Dal Juveniles
Playoff Hopes Glimmer

The Dal Juveniles,cellar dwellers in the Halifax Juvenile League,
were all but mathematically eliminated from the post season playoffs last Saturday night as they dropped a 28-to-14 decision to the
a Os Se A. squad at the Halifax “‘Y.”:The Tigers have two more
games to play in league competition before the playoffs open this
Saturday, and unless they win both contests, they will be on the side

lines in the post season play.
playoff hopes very much alive.

Saturday’s game was a slow
moving. affair that saw the “TY”
move out to an early advantage

By winning, the victors kept their

 

doubt after the first ten minutes.

hockey game against Pharmacy.
O’Brien starred on defence for
the Druggists and MacKenzie was
the best man on the ice for Pine
Hill.

Summary :First Period:
. Pharmacy—Morris
Pine Hill—Dallien (Smith)
Second Period:
Pine Hill—Hamilton
MacKenzie (Smith)

—

bo

wo
.

—

Third Period:
Scoring — -None.

 

‘LAW 5, ENGINEERS 2

MacKenzie (Dallien, Smith) ~

Sar~

Cruickshanks—3,
antos—8, Beer,

MacCara,
Huges—4,

 

The U.N.B. Varsity hockey
team defeated St.. Thomas Cok
lege hockey ‘team 8-4 in their
first -intercollegiate win of the
season, Mt. Allison also defeated
St. Thomas; and the game between.-Mt. A; and U.N.B. thig
week -should just’ about decide
who will win the New Brunswick
hockey title.

* Tig x: * *

Half of the children born in
Europe’s war-ravaged countries
since 1945 are ALREADY DEAD,
The Canadian Appeal for Child
, Saul Marshall of the “Y” led bat lett Rh ay | Ge epee ek Ae Uae

The “Acadia entry ey the Val- and steadily build it as the game the scorers “with 12 points, and poe a es Lae viet State cune hao atniee bi th’: ell:
ley Senior Hockey Lpague de- progressed. Leading at halftime, 4.4 i146 overall attack of be aie ar a) an ‘ae a ard other countries, is intended te
feated Wolfville Red Wings in 155, the winners dominated Warmer an eaNgg Jaga! Mee moved Into Hirst piace pos- “help 460,000,000. . children im
the first f th i-final AVS ae oe hee e Mal ition of “A” section of the inter- Europe and Asia-who are stilt

oe rae the game throughout, and the point-getters with 7 markers ~ ] B :

> > . at ~ o- ac y e y nije he re ie : ‘ r r
-playoffs in that league. outcome of the game was not in aculty hockey league by defeat- alive. GIVE FREELY.

   

 

 

 

The line-ups;
¥. M. B.A. Marshall 12, Medjuck 6, David 8, Garson 2, Wolman, Paton.
DAL — Morrison
Sideris 1, Boniuk 1, Waller.

 

CURLING LEAGUE

STANDINGS

Shown below are the standings
in the Dalhousie Curling League.

 

7, Goldman 8,

on the ice for

ing the Engineers 5-2. It looked
like an upset was coming as the
Engineers led 2-9 through the
first period but the. Lawyers got
moving and inside of
they scored -four goals’ to
coast to an: easy victory. Don
MackKegigan was the best’ player

ten min
u'ces

Engineers, while
and .MaeDonald
were outstanding for Law.

Churchill-Smith

 

 

 

 

ing whether to wear gloves ar
not in the chilly gymnasium,
Mary Lou. Christie was playing
the hornpipe .while’ Payzant ill
ustrated same onthe stage for
the benefit of the staff.

Finally Padmore twitched his
baton and the practise was un
derway. Soon it was apparent.

‘that the’ performances of beaut
- eous

Kileen Cantwell and May

Team Points: Wank ica | nard Taylor ‘wotld possibly be
: Team E g CAMPUS the highlights of the Gilbert &
| -Teani D 7 yal est nck a aa CCIE
] t, Sullivan performance. Julia Kapa: * 5 , R OU N DUP. lan, perfectly cast. as Buttercup
ne ram 4 | and Lloyd Soper, a little man
5 tai Team & 0 By Joe i_evison with a great big voice, plus the
4 = inimitable Bernie Creighton, as
$i — Aroostook Normal School de- ean -¥ as aT ety ee cae Deppeye.
: = f : Two unappreciative urchins and the initial performers Canth =*¢ eated» Mt. A. Varsity basketball mkt ; A 2 ; d
a > faust. BAla@ were sitting in the front row re- well and Tayler will give’ thig
* \ marking about the Rangers-Leafs opera a cast which should give

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nt

nn

\ A NS \
Sa A P
WY
- ee \\

‘ . ANY
\

   

B347U

The best indoor and outdoor

sporting equipment

is found at

THE SPORTS
LODGE

86 GRANVILLE ST.

“Play” More — Live Longer’”

 

game of the night before. A golden haired spaniel was giving the
key to singers, warming up on
the stage. Cigarette smoke rose
from the orchestra along with
a few distorted notes from the
strings and brasses. On the stage
Geoffrey Payzant, L.R.S.M. and
on the podium, Franklin Padmore, D.G.M. (Damn good man),
were directing the cast in the
initial stage workout of what
promises to be the event of the
Dalhousie year, H.M.S. Pinafore.

Yattata, yattata, yattata, went
the giggles and remarks of the
girls’ chorus, seated in the area
fronting the s‘age. Fiddle play
ers and trumpeters were debat
a creditable performance in. this
production which many professional companies fear to try.

Having watched many of the
Sunday practises of this cast F
can only summarize their activ.
ities by saying that the group
has an “Esprit De Corps” which
would shame even the most in.
terwoven football or basketball?

team. Much credit is also due te
Payzant and Padmore who have
managed to develop the knack
of making practises which could
become very nerve twitching and
irrita*ing inte clear fun and cultural and emotional appreciation
periods of music.

\

 
i

ee

Nr tae ee

= RST =

cf

Se.

eS
*

 

“Dear Ru
by Sherburne McCurdy

For the third successive year the Glee Club had come out with
performance ofa modern comedy. Following in the
ou can’t take it with you” and “The Man Whe Came
Mr. Pigot’s production of “Dear Ruth” has measured
standard that the Dal student body and the public at
large has come to Although it fell short of ite twe predeceecors ac a good play, “Dear Ruth” was skillfully directed and was
presented. in a manner wholly pleasing to the enthusiastic audiences. Comedy parts were emphasized to the “detriment of the more
serious thread, but considering the quality of the play, this did
not. detract seriously from the overall presentation. ;

If the response of the audience is in any way a criterion of
euccess, and I think that it is, Mr. Pigot and his cast may be quite
iustified in taking pride in their performance.

” ‘With regard to their individual roles. I would unhesitatingty
choose Art Hartling in his role of; Judge Wilkins, as the leading
stax of the piece. Art’s role was the best one in the play and he
did more than justice to it. On students’ night he played the galleries with a most gratifying effect ‘and “although he may have overdone some of the situations, he followed the lead of the audience
end emerged the hero of the night: On Saturday night he settled
down to give one of the best interpretations of any role I have
geen at Dalhousie. He threw himself inte his role so thoroughly
that he gave little evidence of ‘acting at all. He seemed to live the
part. His stage manner was excellent and his diction was very
good. He was particularly effective in carrying, along with his
many punch-lines, the serious thread of the plot, that of a returned man faced with the complete shattering of his findest
dream, that of marrying the girl of whom he had grown so fond.

 

_ Almost the whole burden of emphasising this situation fell upon

“Art and he reacted in a most creditable manner.

The part of Miriam, ‘‘the little louse,” and the source of most
of the eonfusion was rendered in a most convincing fashion by
Patty MacKinnon, a veteran of several shows in the Dal Gym.
Patty was at her best, which was sufficiently good to evoke the
admiration of all who saw her. It may take Patty quite some time
ta live down the reputation for brattiness which she so convincingly
buiit up in the play. To Patty I say a most hearty “well done!’

#ohn Pauley as Albert Kummer, a little shaky on opening
night, really came into’ his' own om Saturday and succeeded, in
off the anti-climax that could so easily have occurred at
the end of the first act, As‘most of the Judge’s best punch-lines
in the first act, it fell to Albert to maintain the tempo of the
This, being quite well done on opening night, was so
imp

EEE

while
roved on the public nights that John threatened to steal

g

lime |
Marg Doode deserves more credit for her role as Ruth than
the auther for writing it. It was a difficult part to play and
lines lacked the appeal of some of the others. However, Marg
equal to the task, and turned in a very good performance.
Lorna Innis, was ideally cast. She teamed up with Art in soch
manner as to make one wonder whether or not they hadn’t been
for years. Her Statge manner, with the exception of carryher shoulders a bit''too high, was very natural.
dohn Trim had:what was probably the most difficult role of
play, and althowgh he couldn’t be regarded as an unqualified
fuecess at Lt. Bill Seawright, the returned airman, he certainly,
fooked the part and)'indeed, he carried the part quite well. If he
tad given his lines) in a little less stilted manner, and had been
a lttle more willing’ to come out with an explosive “damn” the
result would have been better, These weaknesses will probably be
ironed out as John gets more experience.

Of the minor roles, Connie Conrod as Bill’s sister Martha probably gave the best performance. Connie’s part didn’t give her
much te work with but she made the best of her rather weak
part. Her huff, tears and bridal role were carried off with conwiderable aplomb. Edith Hills, as Dora, directed a little bit too much
attention to her accent at the expense of enunciation, but her stage
manner was pleasing and her actions quite in order with her part.
Dave Graham had the weskest part in the play and carried it fairly
well although his already flat lineg were delivered with a certain

. The play as a whole, although lacking the professional touch
of the Hollywood version was in mauy ways much more enjoyable
ta @ not too critical audience. Staging effects were commendable,
thanks"'to Ukie Velcoff and his assistants. Laurie Allison handled
the musical end of it with his usual care and good taste. Lighting
effects were given quite accurately by Ray Fiske.

Im summing up the production it is no exaggeration to say
that Mr. Piggot, the director, Frank Flemming, Glee Cieb President
and the cast deserved a lot of credit for a good job done.

® EEE

Be

sey

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

A Mode

Hark a hark and hear:

Though there’s no such thing as beer,
And we have found

The world goes round

That Leap Year’s finally here.

Sadie Hawkins’ drawing near!

We've trimmed our bangs,

e Sharpened our fangs,

Oovered our freckles and counted
Ony sheckels.

k Up up and away— — —
e (It doesn’t rhyme, but rt teaches a moral)

The guys on the campus are very nice,
But Still you gals may need advie:
The boys in Arts are very green,

Just as green ag Evangeline.

A The guys in Science you'll find all right

a

If you care to talk of Chem all night;
For the Engineers, we give three cheers

» The guys that down those “forty beers.”

Se ee ee

at we we ae a

ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

And down at Law, there’s hardly a flaw;
(Don’t curl youy lip, and say “haw, haw!’
The Pre-Meds and Meds, they work like beavers,
With their foreeps, saws, and old meat cleavers.
And why are the Com men realistics?

Must they always burst into the vital statistics?

You snuggie all up and prepare for romance..

“Have you heard that the franc has gone down

in France?”

To go on...

“Yes, Gert, you may cut the deckes

Of course I’m in favor of there’s being two sexes

My ‘only complaint, and I give a loud wail __

Why does one of them have to be male?’

P. S. The above remarks are really a crime.
Take the Joes out, gals, give them a time;
There’s a dance, a game, and mebbe a show,
On your mark, get set, ready...— GO!!

rR ttt de te ee ee i a i ae a a ae a ee

 

Friday, February 13, 1948

  

Te Arms

Skirl yer pipes an’ beat yer drum!

Up an’ at em,’ here we come!
All the hopeless, meek, frustrated
Fifty-one weeks long undated
Female sex — emancipated.
Breathes there a girl with face so plain
She isn’t going to try again?
(If such thing be, we give permission
At least it cuts down competition).
But we
Will spring to arms right merrily,
Roll up our sleeves, let down our skirts
And jump at anything in shirts.
Those noble souls, in hours unguarded,
Who asked us out, shall be rewarded.
And he with genius to elude
Will be so cleverly pursued
That e'en the awesome Library
Shall not be safe from such as we.
(Nay, in the all-revered Library
He will not gain a sanctuary)
Why, if he try the LOWER GYM
We will find out and fetter him.
For we {1 2 3)
Are the girls (U PI DEE)
Of copiously Co-Ed Dalhousie.
And (hold your breath men) that’s not all,
Some of us are from Shirreff Hall! ! !
Oh, we WILL go to shows and dances,
And we WILL have our bright romances,
Use our late leaves, all we’re allowed,
And vie for alcoves in a crowd.
(For of all glad words of tongue and pen
The gladdest are these: “Girls ask the men”)

How are the mighty fallen
It’s wretched, it’s appallin’
Sadie! I hear you eallin’ ! !

ee a

Unicorn Grossly Insulted By Co-Ed Scribes

“Nune est bibendum...’
Traditional

The Unicorn tore into the Gazette office,

with weird oaths flying around freely, and seized upon the Editor.
“What will my friends say?” he almost screamed.
“What will my poor mother think? She was resigned to the fact that I could never become President, but not to THIS. It isn’t even true!!!’

The Editor looked at the advance copy of
this week’s first form which the Unicorn weved under his nose, and studied it the thing without
eomment. Arriving at page seven, he straightened suddenly, as though pained; looking at it
closely he found that it was the Co-ed issue, and
in the middle was a Unicorn story; he had not
authorised it; he had not even been told about it.
He read the mess, and shuddered slightly; this
was awful, libel probably. He wondered if the
Stupid Council would pay the damages.

The Unicorn was really perturbed: “I am not
concerned with their footling’ frustrations; why
make me a goat for their idiocy. This is your
fault,” he went on to the Editor; “you're in charge
of this column.,”

 
 
  
   
  

i ©
A
o

/

hy
ui
’

ip

ly

" Aus Je
GH a

f

y
s
f
rd
= ; ~

TRADE MARK REG

» athome 4

VET)

 Coce-Cola™ and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the registered trade marks which
Fe distinguish the produc: af Coca-Cole Lrd.

The Editor decided to investigate; he called
his faithful myrmidons together, and prepared for
a visit to the sanctum of the Editor-in-Chief.
Shoulder to shoulder they strode in, first the Editor, then J. Slimm (suspected of dangerous Glum
Club leanings) and then S.G. McCrudey, for moral support. The Editor-in-Chief was lost in contemplation of the awful side of student existence,
and it took some time to wake him up. He was
rathered annoyed that someone had come to bother him about the Gazette: why should people expect him to settle these matters anyway?

“Chief,” said the Editor. ““‘We have a crisis.
How did this mess get in? Our client is offended.”

The Editor-in-Chief smiled sadly, and the linés on his face deepened slightly. “I was faced by
the grim alternative of either annoying onr distinguished friend, or of bringing down upon our
defenseless heads the conquences of annoying the
tigress in a touchy season. (he smiled deprecatingly). I took that which I believed to be the lesser
of two evil courses, and we must abide by the consequences and remember that it could have been
much worse.”

(Continued on Page 8)

   
   
    

  

COCA-COLA, LTD
HALIFAX

 
  

i ee}
 

x

 

 

yt) an

er) te yall

ee ing oy :
'

Deen tf oe aw, 'S yes ee i J 7 Griry:
ay: a ae re ee Se 4 ere erate . 880 memes 23 ae oe* We
: [ L ? ). Ss? Dee Bras WF de “
’ i ' 7 . ‘

sm) in ~ " Vy - eed By "Nz F 7

v

  

DALHOUSIE’S YOUNGEST CO-ED PUBLICATION

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1948

 

 

i HALIFAX, ®% &

 

 

D. G. A. C. Executive

 

Left to Right, Back Row: Nancy MacDermaid, Polly Phillips, Elsie
Cruickshanks, Marg O’Neil, Pat Snuggs, Bev Huntington

Center Row: Rennie Fisher, Betty Petrie, Jan Cameron, Anne
Tompkins, Janet Robertson

Front Row: Patty MacKinnon, Shirley McCoy, Marilyn Hebb Frannie
Doane (president).

D.G.A.C. REVIEW

Four months of the college year have passed, and since the
first week in October, when Tennis Manager Bettie Petrie was hunting frantically for tennis stars, D.G.A.C. activities have been riding high. Shirley McCoy, Yuonne Lebroca, Barb Quigley, Janet Cameron, and Gwen Lugar comprised Dal’s female sid of the tennis
team, and succeeded in retaining the Maritime title.

At the same time, Ctudley Field was being given the once
over by a hardy group of ground hockeyists. Matches were played
with Edgehill and Acadia, with a loss of only one game, this one
being the final one with Acadia, which ended with a score of
1-0, giving the valley team the Provincial and unofficial Maritime
Championship Veteran player, Pat Snuggs managed this year’s team,
und also managed to turn in a nice scoring record.

Badminton had an early start with Manager Patty MacKinnon
doing a little coaching on the side, Intercollegiate plans are now
in the making.

Pre-Xmas Tuesday nights saw regular interclass basketball
games, the Freshette team proving victorious. After Xmas, team
teams were formed. Rennie Fisher has been going great guns in
the position of basketball manager, and with three teams
to take care of has had a particularly difficult job. The Varsity team has six of last year’s players, and three new students—
ex-Edgehill Janet Cameron, and Saint John’s Lucy Calp, both Freshettes, and Eileen Landrigan, a Junior from Prince of Wales College.

Archery classes have been held regularly, and interest has raised greatly due to the work of Nancy McDermaid, now in_ her
second year as Archery Manager. Plans for an Intercollegiate telegraphic meet are not entirely out. Everything has appeared to be
against swimming, but Marg O’Neill has been putting up a great
battle, and hopes to find a pool somewhere. A strong team has
been, formed and practices are the big worry.

An ice hockey team is another addition, and plans and players
are now going at top speed with Polly Phillips at the helm.

The guiding hand this year has been Mrs. Donald MacKeigan,
who, in her position as Physical Education Instructor, has coached
in ground hockey, basketball, badminton, and archery, as well as
holding weekly gym classes. In four months Mrs. MacKeigan has
done more to put DGAC back on its feet than can possibly be
managed.

Every organization has its unsung heros, and in DGAC there
are lots of them, such as class managers Janet Cameron, Anne
Tompkins, Shirley McCoy, and Elsie Cruickshank, who really has

aproblem child with ping-pong; Bev Huntington and Jan Robert
son, recently elected assistant basketball and badminton managers,
respectively; and Marilyn Hebb who holds the very important office of Secretary Teasurer.

1947-8 has been a big year foy DGAC, and it is this executive
that has made it.

 

 

 

SS ES EEL a Se ST eb TR

EDITOR: MARJ GOLBURGH

CONTRIBUTORS: FRAN DOANE,LOUISE JOUDREY, JOYCE
CAMERON, MARY LOU CROWE, HELEN POWELL, MARJORIE
ARCHIBALD.

DAL UNICORN MEETS GALS

 

 

 

THERE’s no sucH © Delta Gamma Executive

THING AS BEER

The Dalhousie Unicorn woke
from a deep sleep, bo realize that
the week had passed and it was
again time to celebrate the publication of another Gazette with
the Outer, Circle. Since the boys
of the Society were late for their
weekly visit to the cellar of the
Archives, the Unicorn decided
to go see what was wrong. The
members of the Gazette staff
late for a beer brawl! Such a
thing had never before occurred.

As he approached the Gazette
office, he heard unusual noises;
but, after a thought (or maybe
two) decided that the Society
was now keeping Cats as well
as Hens. Too late, he remembered what the Society members
had warned him: the females
were taking over the Gazette
this week! He was suddenly surrounded by a bunch of girls
tittering that they’ed always
wanted to see a unicorn. Wasn't
he just too sweet for words?

Sizing up the situation,the Unicorn began .to wonder if he
wasn’t dreaming, for the girls
looked just like they did twenty
years ago. He began to look around to see if any of them were
familiar, but long skirts and
high boots were too confusing;
so, he gave up.

The next. thing he knew was

that he was on his way to the
Gym. The girls felt the quaint
old thing really should see the
progress in Girls’ sports. Seeing
the Girls’ Basketball teams practising in their new short uniforms, and remembering the long
bloomer-like outfits worn by the
team when he was new on campus, Me felt the progress was
really remarkable.
_ The rest of the tour was very
vague to the Unicorn. He was
old, and his memory was far
from good. He found the gym
store “a nice place for companionship’”’ of the Library, he merely wanted to know why they had
made an extension of the gym
store so far away.

After several hours of sightseeing, the Unicorn was thinking longingly of his little niche
in the Archives cellar. He found
it hard to drag his four feet into Shirreff Hall. “Tea’’ he sniffed. But, no, the girls led the way
down to the’ very cellar. They
took him through a door, which
showed evidence of much use.
There he saw the wine casks
marked “Home Brew (contains
no lye we all’ hopes) Add Boot
Polish to taste. Not manufactured at Mt. A. “Hours later he
was heard to mutter’ To H—
with the Outer Circle and their
nonexistent beer’’

 

EXAM LISTS POSTED

The threat of examinations
hung like a cloud over Dalhousie
students this week — the examination lists have been posted,
und appear on appropriate bwletin boards.

as

%
3
ee
‘S

By:

 

Left to Right, Back Row: Carmel White, Janet Sinclair, Helen
Powell, Dorothy Muir

Front Row: Patty MacKinnon, Elsie Cruikshank (president), Frances
Jubien, Marj Goldburgh

SADIE’S WEEK

This year Sadie Hawkin’s week has greater significance tham
ever before, or rather since my arival at Dal. The fact is, this im
Leap Year, girls! Sadie Hawkin’s also adds something to Leap Year
because it prevides that a few days be set aside for formal pursuit
of the elusive male.

Sadie Hawkin’s day originated in the cartoon L’l’ Abner by Al
Capp. There is one striking difference in the events in the comics
and at Dal in that the boys at Dal don’t run as fast.
Perhaps those Dogpatch boys go in training. Anyway it seems that
most boys on the campus are just a wee bit flattered to receive @
bid for one of the events, even if it is from ‘Miss Repulsive for
1948.” I guess it’s because the boys have egos, or else dwindhing
pocketbooks.

From the girls point of view Sadie Hawkin’s week is a Femarkable institution also. Not only do they appreciate how expense
ive it is for twosomes to go stepping out, but they realize how
difficult it is to decide which of several equally alluring men te
ask out with a limited amount of time available. At last it became
clear to them that when their various “Joes”? ask them ont, it ig
after long deliberation, careful cogitation of pros, cons and serious
consideration of personality etc. Next week when she is invited
by some admirer to see a show at the Casino, bother, she’s going
to be delighted!

Last but not least, Sadie Hawkin’s events are of interest te
the wallflower, the poor frustrated female who simply can’t seer
to “become attractive to men.” This is her hey-day. At last she hag
the privilege and legitimate reason for walking up boldly to the
man of her dreams and while concealing a weapon in her jacket
pocket, invite him out for an evening of conversation. or game of
twenty questions. It is thus due to Sadie Hawkin’s week that many
maidens manage to endure the long cold winter at Dalhousie. It ig
said that occasionally they do happen to threaten the right guy and
get asked to play ping-pong sometime.

Now that it has been shown that Sadie Hawkin’s is a desirable
institution from all points of view, it might be fitting to diseuss
the events as they take place at Dal. This year as in preceding
years the girls will entertain at a bridge party which is guaranteed
to be played according to “Mr. Hoylee.’’ After the game, there
will be dancing and refreshments as a consolation for poor cards.

Unlike preceding years there will be a new item of interest on
the Sadie Hawkin’s agenda. This is in keeping with the recent trend
of Dal students toward a greater interest in the academic. This bit
of amusement will take the form of an evening of study in the
library and all those who have not seen the interior decoration of
the library are urged to attend. After our little parties of
two have spent a couple hours or so pondering Poli Si, considering
Chem or babbling about Biology, a dance for the aforesaid students
will be held in Shirreff Hall. This dance is “reckond” to be one of
the most distinctive of the year since it is likely to be attended by
those who have active brains as well as animated feet.

The really “big do” of Sadie Hawkin’s week is the Sadie
Hawkin’s Dance. All the pursuers and pursued appear in traditiona}
Dog Patch costume and have a chance to really let down their hair.
One wonders, on seeing the hooks of contentment at this affair
whether or not man is basically barbarous or consciously cultured,
The kids really have a good time dancing most unsedately, settin’
on the floor and in general acting uncivilized.

 

 

 

q

 

 
   

     
  
   

(Continued ae Pace 3)

a cult athletics. To nullify this supposition and
S eaie. a chance to continue om Many ef Dalhousie’s

eS ity ‘players gna graduated from the interfaculty

   
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
    
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
    
 

 

the students. One reason for this may be @ lack of
a f schedules. We advise anyone interested that a schedule
rt you are interested in is posted in the lobby of the gym.
elect ac am tere ila ce

 

after a recent Philosophy lecture:

One bright student to another, speaking of the professor:
con say is that ne either an Atheist or a Communist!’
A 5 & o 2 B

The pra at as are frightfully clever!

De they smoke? Do they drink?

| My goodness —- never!!

‘Those Dal Co-Eds should go quite fah

‘They have “je ne sais quois”

2

 

Corsages

A “Colenial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks elequent volumes
of tenderness and love.

eo fae.

NURSERIES Limited.
381 parRincton sT- HALIFAX

 

  

x DE R’ Ss
- PHARMACY
3 LIMITED
1 dey Drug Store

Peover aye

  
  

| wean tee | - Orchestra

eRe > 9 p.m. to midnight

$3.00 per couple
Supper optional

 

     

 

DANCE PROGRAMS

Our new Kne of dance pro
 

grams is smart and different.

 
 

Commi'tees will find new

: PIRATES
OF MONTERAY|

  

| ideas — but not expensive.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS ©
- LIMITED

American Gem Society

Registered Jeweller,
Halifax, N. &.

 
 
 

 
 

    
   
   
  

MAKES SHOPPING EASIER!

  

Bis: "Dal Students wat

   
 

The smart woman reads
The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail ads before she
goes shopping. These papers
are chosey, to carry the greatest bulk of local and national
advertising in Nova Scotia.
The smart shopper KNOWS
where to shop. She saves time,
mony and snoe leather.

t,

us
i P
i
%

\ welcome awaits you at

a ®
f q 7 é
} “3
a
{ e
7)
J . iat i J “a
/ a  *) =
| : ae Rg
i  - , ? b .
i re : se
*. eA Ai ‘ Bho TT f i" «
-° a se '
‘ ¥
rf . f ' iy :
:
’
ey
7

i
8
_.

  

Read

THE HALIFAX HERALD
and
‘THE HALIFAX MAIL
‘Two of Canada’s Greatest
Newspapers

 
 

sa ep one. thing interfaculty needs. That is “more

 

 

 

; Faced :. the wietel rest of the evils of
student existence, the Editor sank back into a
deep slumber, and the dauntless three drew themselves up, saluted silently and went back to the

_ Unicern, and gave him afew quick ones, which

served to impreve his outlook somewhat. And that
night, when the sounds of the screams of the hapless males echoed over the place, and the dark
shadows by the wall seemed ative with leering
women to the fleeing, the Unicorn and the Editor

 

DR. KERR OPENS ISS

(Continued from page 1)

  
 

- (ontinued from daerey a

entered the Archives, and withdrew to the eellar,
ard spent the night safe from women, recalling
the eminent Omar Kayyam, whom the Unicorn had
known slightly once;

The grape, that can with logic absolute

Full sev’n-and-seventy jarring girls confute;

The subtle alchemist in Co-ed week

Life’s leaden horrors into GOLD transmute.
‘As always, the grape seemed to meet tke situation.

 

SADIE

Here’s to Sadie with her running shoes;

Equipment she would hate to lose.
She’s got no repressions,

p “a show or two”, to help people who are starved in mind and
body.

We are privileged. We should
express the virtues of kimdness,
respect for others, and realizatjon of the great world horizon.
We should not confine ourselves
to our own narrow circle of influence. If we respond, “I think
it will do us good”.

 

|) EVANGELINE |
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

    

 
    
 
   
   
 
    
    

 
  

 
    
     
   
   
   
 

 
   
 
  

  
 

 

BOB HART

/

“Well, I'm all set for the Prom... Perfection... Check!"
“Yeoh, Joe's shirt . . . Bill's tails... and my Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

But that’s no sin...
She’s waiting for S. Hawkins week to begin!

 

THE MARITIME LIFE

STRENGTH AND PROGRESS

Year Assets Reserves Bus. in Force
1927 $ 490,242 198,694 $ 5,037,621
1937 2,317,808 1,921,027 15,493,749
1947 6,679,711 5,690,753 35,674,317
The total Premium Income for the year
amounted to $817,412.69. Interest Income amounted to $248,259.27. The rate
of interest realized was 4.02% on the
@Book Value of Ledger Assets. The Assets
mof the Company increased 9% during the
past year.

A. R. FRASER, C. L. U.
Manager Nova Scotia Branch
Green Lantern Building, Halifax, N. S.
Telephone 3-8745

 

 
 
     
   
 
 

 

 

 

    

 

 

    
   
 

 
   
  
  
 

  
   
  
  
  
   
