 

 

=: =
Nee ee ne

By

FOINMOLTLee

ATTL LD: ‘}

 

 
 

——————

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

tt A A LLL

McGILL DEBATORS

 

» W. F. Kellovéay
B

-_——_ a

The following three men compose the McGill team:
J. Grant Glasser is a senior in Commerce.
He is President of McGill Canadian Club and
also plays on the Senior Rugby team.

W. F. Kelloway is a graduate student. Graduated last year and is now doing graduate
work. He has debated against Cornell and
he served in the Royal Air Force with the
commission of lieutenant. Kelloway was born
inn Newfoundland.

The third McGill man is Eugene Forsay.
Forsay is a senior student, born in Newfoundland but now of Ottawa. He has won many
scholarships and was a member of the McGill
team that debated against Oxford in 1923.

The Dalhousie team consists of G. MacGregor Grant. F. W. Bissett and A. F. New‘combe. Grant, leader is an old debater. He
debated against King’s last year on the Inter
collegiate team. He hails from Yarmouth,

He is a senior student and is preparing for the

Presbyterian ministry. Grant is a member of

- thé Students Council and is also no the Exe
cutive of Sadoles Debating Society. He is

~ason of Rev. Mr. Grant, Presbyterian minister
at Yarmouth, who was also a prominent debater in his Dal. days. |

_F. W. Bissett, the second Dalhousie speaker

is a graduate student in second year Law. He
isa son of Deputy Mayor and Mrs, Bissett of
ales Debating Society and past Vice-Presilent of the Arts and Science. He was a member
f tlie Conservative Government in the Law
| Mock Parliament last year.

| A. PF. Newcombe is a graduate student in
_' the department of English.. He was a memby yer of last year’s Intercollegiate team which
efeated King’s. Newcombe comes from Cannin the Great’

 
  
  
  
  
   

 

   

   
 

ss
e
t
:

  

|

. iu
ear
otf

   

 

Glassie

J. G,

GIRLS’ DEBATING

 

The first trials will be on Thursday the Sth
of February in the Munro Room. Each girl
will have five minutes for her speech.

The subject which will be debated is:

“Resolved that the increasing tendency for
women to find their sphere of activity outside
of the home is not in the best interests of

society.”

 

TO BE

On Thursday night,
Beneath the light,

Oh, what a sight!

A masquerade, |
| Are you afraid?

Men wear a shade.

Each with a mask,
No! not a flask—

How can you ask?

At Shirreff Hall,
A gorgeous ball,

Come one and all.

If you belong, ,
/ To the best throng.

Shades of Mah Jongg!

Who will arrive? ae
Why, man alive, —

*

 

EK, Forsey

One, Two, Three, Upidee

“One, two, three, Upidee, Dalhousie. Yes,
the good old college yell was made to ring
out in the Orpheus Theatre Monday night. A
large majority of the members in Class ‘27
were the lusty partakers therein... Mr. Acker
not only very kindly reserved the center section ot the balcony for this group of Sophomores but allowed several witty remarks:
about different members in the class,’ to be
thrown on the screen. After the show the party
went to Murray Fraser’s home on Coboug Rd.
where they enjoyed dancing for some time.
MrMs. Fraser, and Mrs. Prof. Copp were very
amicable chaperones. Mrs. Fraser throw!
her house open to give the students a g
time.

The new social committee ss; the party very successfully, not only did they give

excellent refreshments but they gave a special ©

treat on the programme, The girls were
given numbers and as they and their partners
danced the numbers were called out—biding
that couple to drop out—The last remaining
couple on the floor were to give an exhibition
dance, for which they were given a prize. This
fortunate or unfortunate couple were Phil
Allison and Minna Troope. Apart from the
novelty dances and the general good enthus
iasm of the host and guests much of the suc
cess of the dance was due to the splendid

music Clyde Keyes and his five piece orchestra

chiefly Class ‘27 men—were certainly. fine”
and the “pep” that they put in their jazz could .
net help to stir the party towards a good time. * .
As Class ‘27 had’ rather a ‘financial sét back’
at the first: uf the year they have had to be
sparing with their paties, . Never mind jf ,a,.
All Twenty-Five. few can be as successful and enjoyable as —
-.. GF. this one Class ‘27 will come out on top: ©

ve :
4 AN a oy
. ‘ : (

a
‘

The Class ’26 Sleigh Drive

On Monday the nineteenth we were out in
force. Well armed with. furs and blankets
we presented an impervious front to icey
January. His malice could not daunt and
his breath could not chill us. Baffled by
large coat collars he could only lightly touch
the cheeks already rosy. '

It was with no small alacrity that we
scrambled into the sleighs. Nothing could
have been cosier, nothing more convenient.
What if a little hand did get cold at times ;
there were always ways of remedying that.
What if an oceasional foot did go to sleep
the rest of us was wide enough awake. Then
to make the fun complete Allie Thompson
was then getting more so every minute. Dot
Berry was also there but we didn’t hear as
much from her as ustally for for some mysterious reason, she seemed to be preocupied.
But she was not the only one, there were
others in like situations. But here I need
not elaborate for the you can imagine how
such as Jarvis were seizing—their opportunities,

When we arrived at the Green the fun had
only just begun for there was a bean supper

2 awaiting us. Oceans of tea flowed past the
ivory pillars of our mouths. Bean after
bean dashed by the swiftly rising and descending lips to meet its awful punishment.
But soon it was all over. The innumerable
hoards of beans melted like mist before our
savage onslaught. It was a complete anihilation! — |

Then eame the dance and as it proceeded
the party became more and more jovial. Mr.
Wilfred Creighton clasped his partner to his
breast and passionately gazed upon the
eeiling. Never was Creighton more dramatic,
never was overcoat more fortunate. All the
whie Gerry was bubbling over with exuberance. Prof. Bell made it quite clear that

Botany could offer him no blossoms as interesting at the rose buds of Class ’26. At the
end of the gorgeously decorated hall sat our
Honorary President like somé benevolent

‘

It was generally agreed that the party
was the best yet and it is no small praise to
eall a party teh choicest ever held by the
choicest class in this choice old University.

RT ea eae H. A. D.

/, BIRK
| for Class Jewelery
Silver

The Latest Novelties From
The Worlds Best Markets

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
ae EMITTED

ae ee “ »*

IND ME
_ > HALIFAX

 

     
 
  
  

¢.-.
Pé >

    
 
 

.

7. 7

  
 
 
 

    

.

 
 
   

 

  

 

CIGARETTES

“Mild and

   

  
   
   

 

j
ie)

I
\ Extra Fine” OPP

 
   

  
 

LAN

 
 
      

\205.25°

\ OGDEN'S

Re tvERPO0L

a

Legal Events

A stuffed ballot box caused the j
7. 7 S
new election writ in the Law School's. AH

Parliament,
on Thursday but the

 

   
   

   
   
 

Dalhousie
Students

WE EXCEL IN

: Hho election was held
allots counted far exceeded those

Tories are accused with being the» chet i.
fenders in the “crooked” work, the result being
as follows: Conservatives 24, Liberals 19. Pro.
gressives 11. The new election will be held
in the near future and prophecies are that the
Liberal majority will be quite substantial.

Wihi*¢ssshitthhhss;disidiihhiididihsid¢¢istsikshd

all sorts.

   
  

  
    

 

The Law Dance Committee are bein

praised for their successful handling of ‘th.
Law Dance. The committee, consisting of
Messrs. Snodgrass, Bethune, Coughlan and
Judge, wroked hard and even in the face of
some unfortunate but necessary changes, made
Law Dance the best so far—so say the
adies.

160 GRANVILLE STREET

GISISSSEESSSS SSS SASS ASA AF

LMMMMMMA ALCO SLL,

 

Let
aan Phinneys Limited

Get your tickets for the McGill Dalhousie
Debate from:C. H. W. Sedgewick ’25
Chas. MacKenzie ’26
Gerald Godsoe ’26
Reni Benoit ’27
Albert Smith '28
Anna Grant: Shirreff Hall
James MacCurdy, Pine Hil! > aye
C. N. Bissett, King’s
Business Manager’s . Office and Miss
Smith, Forrest Bldg, |

 

YOUR HOCKEY TEAM

Sweaters and Stockin ,
8 in “9 ”

— be ordered now, to sabiee their

ng here when the season opens.

A full range of Hockey

play in Sporting Goods

Come in and get our prices,

_ PHINNEYS LIMITED

LLAMA ALMA, Lhhhhe :

Students’ Loose Leaf Books and
other Students’ Supplies of

Frank M. O’Neill & Co. Ltd.

4 a
oe
: ’ «, Ve
. a5
i
ulp
Lo
;
’
.
colors

Equipment is on dis. | ‘s
s- fal mal :
Dept i

ials Terms To All Clubs

484 BARRINGTON ST HALIFAX, Ns.

 

 

  
   
   
      
      

      
   
    
     
     

be
      
         
     
   
  
  
 

    
    
  
 

a)
a9
7 - »

   

a vet
Ng
? oy: ; &

    
 

Shirreff Hall

pe ee

On Friday last Room 233 was inundated.
Its occupant declares she only opened the windown two inches, but what was the result?
She awoke at 8 A. M. snow and helted snow
from chin to toes. Guilty she crept down to
133 to discover! alas!. that her snow had
trckled down. However as the day advanced
she grew happier, especially when her own
walls began to show signs of the third floor
snow. Guilt loves company and she had many
feilow criminals of a formerly unimpeachable
character, such as Blanch Etter and Catherine
Munroe.

Though we hate to say a Club has been
formed, yet several of our embers have simulianeously started a growing contest. What we
grow are bulbs, which we maintain have a
truly artistic and decorative effect. Since
Jean Whittiers were frozen out the other night,

lennie Brown’s are leading in the contest and

vreat is the fear that her roof will soon be
lifted up by the strong» young shoots into the
MacCurdy-Robertson domain.

“Hills to the right of her,

Hills to the left of her,

Hills all around her,’
greeted Phylis Hilton when she wanly. reached
her room after the Junior Class Party. Some
good fairy, not considering the hills driven
over in the sleigh drive enough for one night,
thought she would clmb one more _ before
turning in. And so with much more artistic

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

prepared.
draped themselves gracefully over the chairs;
the suspense was becoming unbearable when
in walking four young gentlemen dressed in
evening clothes who immediately caused great
excitement among the ladies-which somewhat
abated when it was discovered they were
‘‘only girls’’. These girls joined the orchestra which rendered sweet music between the

. Aets.

The first act was indeed astonishing and
amazed not a few for it was no other than
Queen Elizabeth with her many courtiers
round her... We listened for her to open her
lips but when she did, horrors!! she used the
wildest slang and most improper terms imaginable which would certainly have made
her parents turn over in their peaceful
graves. With her, ‘‘Beat it kid,’’ ‘‘the cat’s
whiskers” and many others she initiated
many of the verdant young freshies into the
modern terms of slang.

This was all too short but more good things
were coming, the orchestra rendered
‘‘Marcheta’’ and then the curtain went up
on—really it could not be—Yes! a scene from
Pickwick papers where Mr. Wardle was seen
introducing Mr. Pickwick to his family, and
such a family it was, from Grandma to the

The audience now appeared and

 

Pine Hill Post

ACT |. Scene Il. (On an Inglis Street car)

Bingo Harrison, George Maclntosh, and
Dannie MacCuish, sitting in the order named
—George guarding with his feet a large box
of cake recently obtained for services rendered
at Park St. Church. All look happy.

ACT I. Scene Il. (Inglis* Street,—Tramear
in the distance) i's

Great dismay registered on the face of th
trio—Box of cake missing.

ACT II. They search the tram on its return,
desperately and thoroughly, but in vain. Box
still missing.

ACT Ill. (Pine Hill.)

Then enter and find box in plain view on the
bed. They relax registering surprise, relief,
chagrin, anger, incredulity. .

N. B, John A. Nicholson intends to use this
incident in his sermon next Sunday in order
to prove that the age of miracles is not yet
over.

As the old Hebrew poet so well said, there
is a time to weep and a time to laugh, a time
to mourn and a time to dance. Likewise at
rare intervals in the course of nature there is
atime to mention the freshmen. Therefore
be of good cheer. Though one of these unfortunate occasions is at hand, we promise that
it will not soon happen again.

As the most outstanding example of the
freshman species in the Residence, it is only
fitting that “Where am I’ Sutherland should be
mentioned first. The other day, meeting with
lan MacKinnon in one of the rooms, he broke
forth in his most assured and patronizing man
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

DAL. TE

 

A. Newcombe

Cross Word Peaks

This is one especially designed for th

e

bght wits at Dalhousie. ony of the definitions refer directly to our college.

 

 

eabaanathinten a=schsieeiesieeepp snes cemssnenipeimmnuiien 32

AM THAT MEETS McGILL

 

G. M. Grant (Leader). .

10. First word in the chorus of a popular song.
11. A conjunction.
12. Titus—’s

14. To follow.
16. Fresh pork or Sauerkraut (ab.)

 

 

Sateen cnibnenseelaniesieueemenmsen msseenris ees

 

A plucking machine.

If its too old, perhaps you'll never get ft.

 

y
2
3.
r First word of a college yell,
6
7

genius, a large hill rose majestically in the youngest one was unique and impossible to be _ ner:-“You're.one of the new fellows, | suppose. lla is oe ST a
centre of the room, appropriately set among oad with the introductions over, 4 Well, I taink y ou'll like it here, once you get Pl |® |* Be Je [or 1 | ce Se ee ee ee a ae A golf term.
the surrounding hills of smaller dimensions, CUP'C@°™S, om” , used to our ways. sb ’. 10.) | | im) | Be ae ae EE se Payment for use.

lively card game followed after which the Jim Fay is in the toils once more. One club at Pinehill the co eds cannot be.

The large hill was soon disposed of ; the smaller

     

 

     

 

  

 

 

   

 

 

 

  
 
   
 
  

; 12, 18 i
aa aki ik last Wednesday at the Studley rink, “When i | | jt. 20. The‘minority at Pinehill in a church question long to.
We wanted to know what excitement went 4... 1). onchestra came to the rescue and she crossed his path with her hunting-noose. 6.) | | |)”. | i ce: ey 21. Means sagacious beheaded twice. 8. Dr. Stanly MacKenzie.
on, on Saturday after Delta Gamma in Room gain the orches And over him drew her net.’ 19. | | | im lao 1 po! SCs Frreshette tawe. (ab.) 13. Also.
131 that caused a certain member of the party filled in the gap before the last scene the This is the third attack this term and Fa si | im | | ee 23. Source if revenue for the newspaper. 15. What every boy is. al
there assembled to go to bed that night o “Prologue to Androcles and the Lion’’ was |S ee oe mete sr bo a er |__| (2°. | Ha i. _ _— of Mexico eh - old Dal building. gy,
is i i a rire . : erna e time if; : 25. |26. i_mior, | if . . BD. B.C, four count one hund . venomous serpent. ay
| os room slippers on. Did she fear presented. Truly never lion roared like that is reported, she belongs to the medical =} fig | oe - ot bi al cca e hundred 96. Gus whe tate toe co-jues ‘uk: aieilil au
3 ; d certainly there was never a more faculty. ; 30. 66 27. “. were for the party.’ ae
Talking about bedroom slippers,-Mable Bor- one an eae ” oe 9. Go to bed at 6 A. M. and get up at 11 th y. Fe
den is taking up a collection on the first floor henpecked husband than that poor individual * ae are vine Cod hen, Pai pore nme. ed Te | night before spells it backwards, : ss 4 esas dee ‘ietaiiae : “a
fey, tor herselt. eo a oh fore a (1 er gall on who was ordered and pushed around by his j,:1 yy with colds. “Perhaps after-all there is A)°°. |94. |95. oo.) | 30. Lost hair nets. (ab.) a5. What our president just received, .
oh ‘nat hss on sae: tate: the ‘Sunday shrewish wife. Just as all good things come something in the suggestion that they would a7. | | | | |88. | | | [39. }40. |41. |42,— 31. Phrase (ab.) 37. Dental Parlour (ab.)
o woe” This si truly pitiful case. Will dona- to an end so did this and the performance ee gh a Pe awe oe ae | 6 ee ' te ty er 82. How Pro, Mercer gets a third service, . agg ‘
K. 5 oe ‘ kindly sent to Miss Anna Wilson.  ¢losed with the class ’26 song and last but not jad Ba mey Morton is sick also and he usual- rotate CCS: T00 cold at 20 below for onein'N. W. A. 40. Indefinite article, | ae
i ‘Room 130. Jehi Remm least a delicious fruit salad and cake. Truly ly goes to bed at nights. cia 1. What Toby gave Pinehill and Shirreff Hall. 36. aha person reflexive pronoun (Fe) 41. God’s country. “if
is the Juniors know the way to people’s hearts. Another plausible theory advanc to a 5. Don’t open your mouth at S. B. B. C. unless 37. “We are all 42. Point of a compags.  —
Ke count for the ore a - role pl aa you have five. . 43. Goes slowly, ' 17. Part of the verb to be—-and the initials of . a,
2 i nanrenrcnranranancancancencescess & Of the report that there is mu 9. Relating to. * " © initials Of
The Juniors Entertain Delta Gamma like nature in Shirreff Hall. But, then. Bill ater Wadnendenonselicicats the inventor

 

 

Byers and Owen Armstrong are not Freshmen
and never go to the Hall and they were sick. .
Billy MacPhee received a te ephone message the other night. It was from a lady
‘invited him to go snow-shoeing with her. Bill
considered a minute. “Well,” he said oe
“It will spoil my whole evening of course,
- [tl go”. What do you think of that for modern spirit? ‘
The Pine Hill Cat wants to know why there |
is such athing as a Dental Dance. has BA
been sleeping lately very comfortably on the ae
| il’s Tuxedo, tucked be By an

CLOTHES SEEN AT
THE COLLEGES

SUITS, OVERCOATS AND
FURNISHINGS

To Please The College Man.

W.F.PAGE |

For over a week it was almost impossible |
for a young man to venture near the receptjon room of Shirreff Hall without bumping
into a scene of the most nerve-racking howls
of wild beasts, the screams of frightened
- damsels, the high pitched female voices of
 Plizabethan time and what was the most
horrible the sight of modest young ladies in
masculine attire. The cause of all the ex éitement and ‘‘display’’? Nothing less than
the Jolly Juniors participating for the benefit of their less.intelleetual comrades.
| a _ The momentous occasion arrived. All were

Fs ; r halls by 7.30,

ordered to vacate the lowe ONE OM dn ae hae ten Tope ee ie ea ORE
_ ghairs.were ranged in rows and the stage | , :
“% ote “ ye! ry [ my A i* ' e% = |

INTERVARSITY DEBATE

-McGILL vs. DALHOUSIE
| GYMNASIUM STUDLEY

January 30th, at 8 o’clock P. M.
_ GENERAL ADMISSION 35cts.

t *
es
eS *,
?

BE See For tickets apply Business Manager's Office or Miss Smith Forest Building.

 

 

$= Friday,

2
ise

he Vik
=
J

; 4
Res ps
Wek

 

  
     

 
   

  
  

      

   
  

1 QV _ Ww
ah cc
: 22 so ,

    

ee , Gi — fa : > a aS a: : se z & a P F Fr
ide Dita) + peje ge 7 we ge eee PE oth te he. ys.
i Bes tees, Ses Lie ee ae in ae ee as Pre eT
Sinan teste Figg iy fic niche ON
ae al he ¢ pe os AS : eam we few -. Sap gh f r hs yt ‘o3 rs
cat oe a SR th foal tg sr aire ie Be tae +r tg , eae x yb a
Ay. 3 ¥, Fi a. as Bs ers = ? = 4 a ¥ i = " a
> | , a - ;

*
*,
~¥
Ay : “ ' ¥ . 9 < =
: aes a P : i a hi - * "hs
Ao oe : wey Go. Fane = .* . d ‘“ gia ==:
$ eee : Tg abet pears e, a
“Wee 7 a 2 2 “ F . is e = t : % ‘a ns F ma 2 4 rs
i? ee 7 - ¥ 4 = 7 ine an i) a “ ‘ a
; : 4 r i a ot {> yank ‘
a 5 yy = eh ‘ , + as Pe ss 9 i‘ yy > ix ps oe *
he te 5 ' , = : ; sae 4 ya ee * eh Nae Ss se
at) , Sa hem = 4 se” ‘i r 4 => . " , . .. 22 ves site = » Pal Ph = eee hy =i oe J. Ne tr
oa : = a Wy : , ot ely f , 7 =) 2a% =e. ED vi a. ee SSS > as
. ki od fi 5 ees ‘ J rae =e ae ‘a 7 sf : y ’ r ae Se igez'n, n 4 ie 4 f : Lag fa ,
f a / ’ aS aps e 2 AA, § 402i ge i
aan @) pea R

4 =~ ee
oats oe eee
“ Py ‘ oY" a —<—_

7 4% fal Sth tt ‘

 

oO SEE eae
PME PEs PTs, ae ta
Dr” 2 44 = = .%
 
  
 
 
 

 
   
 
 

  
 
   
 
 

a

  
 

 

Rr er TENET 1 ia all

Wate CN ae gh o ORR hg :
Cnn we sth i et i.

Your value, the way ‘that an auditor would |
Who had to appraise you correctly. No

doubt
The showing you. made would be perfectly

Buy why act look over the data at hand
And strike off a balance see how you
stand ?

Now what are your assets? How much can
you show of Energy, Industry, Quick
ness and Go?

How High can you estimate what you possess
of Honesty, Pluck and © Stick- to-iteveness!

Ambition, Fore-sightedness, Humor and

| Health

(These qualities coumt as part of your
weath),

How much of them have you? Look over the

. lot.

And set down quite honestly just what you've

got !

And now—liabilities; put them down, too—

Bad habits, for instance, how many have you?

Then—Procrastination and Thoughtlessness,
y&,

And lack of assuranec which hampers success.

Total up all your faults to the proper amount

And set them down there in that oo
account,

And then if you’ve calmly and coldly survey
This list of your qualities, neatly arrayed.

And tested the figures and found they’re
correct

And fit for an auditor’s eye to inspect

You’re ready to east up the balance andsee 7

Just what your unpadded net value will be.

The total may please you and then—it may
not.

But anyhow, you ‘ve learned what is what,

And when you’ve earned that, and you’ve
got it quite clear

You'll make up your mind to do better this

‘An extract.”

[Nova Scotia Narsery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
Three Phones |

 

 

re -e a ea: aan pans: mae mee oo me Re ee 3 Pea "a a Mi:
ip
The Audit TWILIGHT
Just what are you worth? Did you ever consider
f a lake

: ‘oht assay to a cold-blooded At twilight one eve near the edge o
a Soe 4 When the drowsy-eyed sun could scarce keep

f ourself—fi re awake ;
= a oe see 2 = I wandered again o'er the well beloved spot,

Where spring's rarest mayflowers oft had I

sought,

Where the elf found his slippers, the fsiry
her bell,

Where the spirit of beauty used sadness to
quell.

Alas! What a change had man mene in the »
place,

Bare stumps, broken trees, sidhiead shrubs of
disgrace !

The wood sprites had fled ‘to a friendlier
nook’.

Some wretched wee urchins, guilty, ay and
torn,

Made tragic the picture, now all too forlorn.
The fairies they ’d scorn, the squirrels they’d

chase, |
The curses they lisped had hardened each

face.
I shuddered, and turned from the scene in
despair.

But wait—what chaste loveliness—see ! over
there! 1
Where the water is changed to the tenderest
gold, * © ° d willy
And the willow o’er hanging 1t, sey and

old, 
Is traced on its surface with delicate bush,
And the truth is revealed, to those who
hear,
That scaned through the land, God’s
majesty’s there. |
a

Prof Nickerson: (on cold day) If any of
you ean think of a warmer place than this
room you are quite welcome to do it.

(Loud applause).
Famous J antoretie: (abcess _ mindedly
ealling her small white dog while thinking

of something else) ‘‘There, Hughie, meen
Hughie ! iy"

 
 
 
 
   
        
     
 
     
 
 
  

  

 

 
 
 

Scotts Men’s Wear

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

‘Headquarters for Dal. Boys

A splendid stock of furnishings of all
kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats and

Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suitcases and Bags.

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

DON’T FORGET WE’RE ON THE
CORNER ©

 

~

erecen renee rence cance ceneeeneen renee cnet
From Six to Sixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire for greater
athletic accomplishment are the boys whe

pick EQUIP =

  

Com to

CRAGG BROS. C0. im

FOR ANYTHING YOU NEED IN
‘EVERY UINE OF SPORT

< >
’ >
’ ¥
* . *”*

) ius? se a Ie |
| - HIGH CLASS BARBER

Up to date. Ship, with four can,
and first class barbers in attendance, 
Sots. Billon oe te ONY

    
      
 
        
 
      
   
 
  
 
     

WERK... cabs. Vihear Triad a eae
RT ae ee al a Te a
iy ms " . Mey 4

 

 

 

ree es = 7

"s pi yi Pe ee ee
ie ey sin ke ee

es aE HD =

7 ne me ~—ee =—

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

   

Dalhousie vs Halifax Academy

‘4

In a keenly contested match with the
Halifax Academy the Dalhousie girls’ first
team won by 17—8. The Academy team was
in better condition an on the whole played a
swifter game than Dalhousie, the combination being. excellent.

During the first two periods the home team
was rather weak but in the last part it worked much harder and showed promise for
future games. Marian Campbell and Mabel
Borden were the stars for the Dal team.

The second team game was slower and less
interesting than the first. During the first
period there was no scoring but in the two
periods following both teams picked up considerably, especially the Academy players.
The combination of both sides was fairly good
but the shooting was notall that could be
desired. The game ended 12—8 in favor of
the Academy. Mr. Sterling refereed both
games,

The line up :—

Academy First Team — Forwards — E.
Smith, M. Jenks. Centres—M. Isnor, H.
Dobson. Guards—K. Moore, H. Sexton.

Dal First Team—Forwards—M. Campbell,
A. Clark. Centres—J. MacRae, M. Borden.
Guarde—H. Roberts, F. Barnstead.

Aeademy Second Team — Forwards — B.
Foote, R. Mitehell. Centres—B. Hill, E.
Sehwartz.. Guards—M. Mont, A. MacLean.

Dal Second Team—Forwards—A. Atherton, A, MacCurdy. Centres—H. Robertson,
J. MaeKenzie. Guards—L. ante: M. Maw
M, Burroughs, )
3 ICE HOCKEY \

lee sites is making considerable strides
and ig now worthy of being among the popular. sports of the Dalhousie girls. The
opinion of some of the players is that it is
bes cage yet.’’ Large numbers have
ut to the practices held on Tuesday
y from 5.30 to 6.30. The ease and

 

 

t to behold (if we

 

 

to Manager Jeat
make this is simply a parody on one ae le 16th

nn some of the players move 
we eenlis’) _There o>

DALHOUSIE LOSES TO WANDERERS _

Dal Loses to Wanderers

——

 

Wanderers defeated Dalhousie in 10 minutes
of overtime play at the Arena on Friday evening, the final score being 5—3 in a game marked by fast open play and brilliant net guarding.

After five minutes of hard playing, Fabie
passed the puck to Creighton, who drew the
Wanderers defence and scored the first tally
on a sissling shot.

The Reds began to extend themselves and
had a slight edge in the play, when two min-,
utes later their efforts were rewarded by Timnie Hunter tieing the score. Still setting a
terrific pace, the Wanderers managed to beat
in the Dal net from a mixup in front of the
Lewis, when Temple Lane banged the rubber
goal.

Wanderers had a margin in the playing in
the second. session and after eight minutes of
play Bobby McCoy the outstanding star ‘for
the Reds dented the draperies for their third
score. Bates and Wilson combined a few
minutes later but Sharpe made a sensational
stop of Fabie’s shot. it

The two Lanes were sent to the penalty box
for tripping and Dalhousie presséd the Reds
hard but were unable to score. A few minutes
later the Tigers had two men in the penalty
box.

The third period Dalhousians came back
strong and in quick time tied the score. Fabie
worked like a trojan, ably assisted by Haslam
and Creighton. Ernst substituting for Creighton after five minutes of play carried the rubber down the wing on a nice play, passed to
Fabie who scored. Capt. Allen Dunlop, although badly cut about the neck, returned and
on an end to end rush, passed to Haslam who
tied the score.

In the overtime play, the Wanderers broke

- the tie» scoring two goals, Nutty Wilson played
a agreat blocking game, although he did not.

aappear to be able to get away on his rushes
was sent to the pen by Butler. Lewis in goal
turned in his performance this season.

The line-up :
WANDERERS: Sharpe, g; Arthur and Lilly,

d; F. Lane, c; Hunter and Temp. Latte, w;
Cahill, Richie and Bob McCoy, subs.
DALHOUSIE: Lewis, g; Dunlop and Wil
son, d; Fabie Bates, c; Haslam and Creighton,

w; Ernst, M. Moore: subs.
A. M. 
 

Baia Going Pesto wie in Gees
has just found that the Dalhousie Med. song —

 

 

   

a Pd hot

| Then t6 the Green Lantern,

. When the musie started, . and to 1

Intermediates Lose

The Wanderer’s won the Intermediate League game by a score of 4—2.

The Dal boys held the Wanderers for the
first two sessions but after the loss of the services of Arthur Coleman, the Reds managed
to break through and even the count.. As in
the previous game overtime was necessary.

It would be impossible to choose a star on
the Dal. line-up, for all the boys gave of their
best. Langstroth starred on the scoring.

The line-up:
DALHOUSIE: R. Moore, g;. Bissett and
Piercey, d; Coleman, c; Langstroth and Taylor, w; Cummings, Munro, subs,

Wanderers: Bartlett, Colwell, Hill, O’Brien,
McCoy: Meilkle, Jones.

A. M.,

Inter-University Debate

 

The most important event in college activities this week will undoubtedly be the Debate
with McGill which will be held at the Gymnasium on Friday evening at 8 P.M.

President McKenzie will preside and the

judges will be the Hon. F. B. McCurdy, Dean .

LJoyd and Mayor Murphy

The subject to be debated is, “Resolved that
there should be an embargo placed on the export of unmanufactured pulp-wood from Canada.” Both the subject itself, which is of
supreme interest to this Country at present,
and the fact that McGill is sending her finest
talent to contend with ours make this event
an outstanding one in the year’s activities,
Dalhousie welcomes the McGill debaters and

it is our sincere wish that they enjoy their visit
to our Campus.

 

’26 Sleigh Drive

[aie ial

Eighty Jolly Juniors met at Forrest Hall;
Soon the sleighs a-jingling took them one
and all,

Singing, laughing, shouting, merrily they
went

Out by Bedford Basin, two short hours

spent.

hungry as
‘could be ; |

Plates of heaiih: and brown pena soon i §

went Fepidly.

sped,
roe the aes till twas time for

 
 

ie ad ee , as eo
‘S—IN | an Yea 2
‘ ss La
aA t =i Saag a ca hed A bi *

4. JIA
med is f w
a) pay
ie ta: a? hs, re e - , —“ 7, in
apt ees we rf r : a Ai aig # ve ' N
+ » o ~ iL
Leos: : 'y
‘oO i

 

eS =. ee i . *
er SEGRE eh ak oe ate ;
Be mas eS een pe od,

s |

en oe Su €n%
he. eg GE Ip af

> =
- +

 
  
 
   
   
   
  
  
    
        

    
 

 
 
 

   
   
      
 
 

 

<n Angelia ta cl nas
anne en

8
=== DISPENSING =,

MacLeod, Balcom Ltd.
Druggists

} FIVE

| PLACES

: OF
SAFETY

saivaow

CHEMISTS

 

LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL ALLL LMM MMMM

The TARRY INN

Dainty Lunches Served Quickly

\ CONFECTIONERY COOLING DRINKS
ICE CREAM AFTERNOON TEA

7.

 

MLL hidihiisised

Lib bbbieed

i, \ Dinner 12-2 40c Supper 5-7 40c

SPRING GARDEN ROAD,
AT DRESDEN ROW

WILLA ALLA LhihhhiLiL

Sbbiitt¢hitithtttth

 

MALL AAAAMAA A AAMAAM A ML as hhhhbbhtithishhhthhhttttjtn

Phone Sack. 139i Furnished Rooms

Ye |
ie Mader's Cate

 

i | 15 Granville Street

i , (Foot of Blowers St.)

| ee Halifax - Nova Scotia
he fe Lobsters our Specialty
He Bes: Mid-day Dinner in Halifax

_ | U.NEAT PRESSING

i ~ PARLORS

 

ORIGINAL BOB weer wall
Manager —~

iat ‘
i Ht ane
4 Le = | _ Economize in your Pressing by buying >

"Wiese Strip of Four Tickets for $2.00.

Each ticket entitles you to have a Suit or

a ee Se SI ae
* ; a rN!

 

TE

aes

Law Dance

 

Those Laws ¢ertainly do live up to their 
name. They created a special law for themselves, many years ago, and have never been
known to break it. This year proved no
exception and they came out on top with ‘‘a
dance with a name all its own’’. Yes, the
Law boys deserve credit. They had hard
luck with their plans when the Auditorium
reacted with the weather, but they readily
turned to and made the Navy League hall a
suitable place for their dance.

It was held on Wednesday evening, January 21st, and such an evening will not be
quickly forgotten by many. The dance hall
looked very pretty indeed. From the high
centre light there were countless many colored streamers hanging. Under the _ baleony
the lights were colored in blue, red, yellow,
green and mauve. On the stage a large Law
banner was prominent and on either side of
the stage were similarly large Dal and Kings
banners. To take away the bareness of the
baleony many flags were used. One must
not forget to mention the two especially
attractive lights on either side of the room,
resting in a suitable chosen part of the decorated room. On the left was a large spot
light and on the right a great big smiling
blue moon—which moon, by the way, was
very conveniently used during the evening.
At the third dance a very effective arrangement of the lights was attractive, the lights
in various parts of the building flashing in
succession. Later in the evening,—for the
Laws always persist in novelties and originality—all the dancers were presented with
beautifully decorated paper caps. Later
streamers and confetti followed in showers—
and otherwise. .

The scene that an on-looker, in the baleony,
gazed upon was certainly picturesque to say
the least. Two hundred and fifty young
people with many colored hats dancing among
streamers under colored lights. If you can’t
imagine it just come next year and see how
the Laws do it.

The refreshments were served in two rooms
in another part ‘of the building. Both the
change in environment and _ refreshments
very pleasing. The chaperons were Dean

Read and Mrs. Read.

The committee which so capably managed
this very enjoyable dance were as follows :—

 R. L. Snodgress, C. P. Bethune, 0. R. Cough
lan, and P. Judge.

 

ty Aymmoad rear nation By ane

a e if ne Fe e ho ca we ban bart 47 — ave we
"i “- } es t oee aaa '
| Meh ay TOC kan args es EAD Tae
“ai ty Hays Ra

i ro
yk Sar ed ue 3 =i "Ae. Gt ee oe
a ee, voy ng at ee es Oa sa et S yA :
ier Y ats, fi] ba hd | + iy, * /

i. i he . ae a

Tal vie F = SST yee ray 2 eT 7 2
Cee ee ee ee ee eae ee ne ee

ath, Pat,” 3 i ey W- 0 ts VOPR oe ae
. : mn eo Sign Pate .

THE DALHOUSIE.

 
 

GAZETTE a kein

 

miprical Society Enters
Upon New Era

 

On the evening of Thursday, January 22,
there was held in Munro Room one of the
most interesting meetings in the history of
Dalhousie University.

The efforts of a number of students in the
Medical Faculty have, during the past few
months, been directed towards making the
Students’ Medical Society a more actively
functioning body and one which will be of
more vital interest to Medical Students.

A Committee consisting of Messrs. R. E.
Bennett. J. W. Merritt and W. S. Gilchrist
had some time ago been appointed to draw up
a consititution for the Society and Thursday
evening they submitted the results of their
efforts in the form of a quite rigid and
lengthy constitution, modelled to a considerable extent after the fashion of that of the
Edinburgh University Medical Society, which
latter society is one of the oldest of English
speaking student organizations in the world.

After some animated discussion in regard
to several of the clauses, a motion that the
whole constitution be adopted by the Society

- was unanimously passed.

There then followed the discussion of a
clinical case by the members of the Society.
This is an entirely new department and was
rather in the nature of an éxperiment.

The history of a surgical case taken from
hospital records was read by Mr. R. B.
Archibald (Class ’27) and copy of. this
history were passed around to those present.
Mr. Archibald then proceeded to discuss this
ease in a most excellent manner and coneluded by offering his diagnosis, The case was
then. thoroughly discussed by @ number of
those present and several different diagnoses
were offered. Finally the operative findings
in the case were read and, the case having
gone to antopsy, the post mortem findings
were also read. All who were present are delighted with the renlts in this new venture
and are keenly desirons that these case dis
cussions should become a Le feature

_ in the Society.

Those present Thursday night in’ toto did
not comprise a very large proportion of the
students registered in Medicine. All, how
ever, were enthusiastic over this initial experiment. While the suocess of the Society
is not to be reckoned by the numbers who

 

 

   

 
