ee por Weekly

— FPditer * - « .

ee  Overwens
a Pine Mit Reporter - °
aE ne wanager =  -- 
Jhe Balhousie Gazette

Founded i186)
One Dollar Ver Veur
D. RH. Webster, BH. A.
hditors
Mins Allison McCurdy
rr. T. Miekey, I A.

Associnte
‘knee Grant
F. Kons, HB. A.

ape Maealtty E-ditorn

+i, Cevert
1m) Gilehrist
, G. Dawson

A. F. Macdonald
A. Munre
D. L Meany

D. O;, Hebb
Personals and Social Miss Avis Marshall
nee L.ditor - (eorge Morrison, li. A,
 Seertsa = - - Mise Eleanor Barnstead
“gta Artist ~ - - Hy A WDavidsouw
Correspondent - & A. Duntop, 0. A.

H. BR. Nerton, Lb. A,

A. B. Morten, B, A.

52 QUINPOOL ROAD
Phone Sack. 813

- ee oe a su " ai
at . 4 } i

cer
3 te
wy

ee
y me

HALIFAX, N. 8. FEB, 25, 109265.

ae

MOCK PARLIAMENT

The Mock Parliament of Dalhousie opened,
most auspiriously, on the evening of the 17th,
with Col. W. E. Thompson acting as Governor
General and C. R. Barter Gentlemen Usher of
the Black Rod.

The members of the House were summoned

,to attend His Excellency in the Senate Cham
ber. Arriving in the Red Chamber His Excellency requested that a speaker of the
House should be elected and the members returned to the ‘Lower Chamber, where on
motion of the Prime Minister, seconded by Mr.
Dickey, Leader of the Offical Opposition.
Professor A. L.. MacDonald was unanimously
elected. Led by the speaker the members returned to the Senate’Chamber and the Governor General was advised of the appointment.
His Excellency then read the speech from the

7 a
: oa

I
a Ll

aa
seeing cree
,

rah 2 ys j

FF fron Lae Ps wk ars

ven ihe 5 ane
ec « .

speaker,

The Leader of the official opposition, H. B.
Dickey, opened the debate and scored the Government for the speech which had been read.
‘They propose to stifle the
high protection and they appoint a Royal Com
mission to see what the trouble is,” he said. pact
The appointment of the Ambassador to Shirreff ~~
Hall, was also senerely attacked by Wit
Dickey, who declared that such an appointe >
ment was without precedent, and that it bio

another example of the Government's economy policy.

Mr. Gushue, in opening for the Progressives, a |

congratulated the speaker and said he was the’
only man in the House who had the support
of the three parties.

ies (D. Adams) was to be congratulated as)

industries with *

The Hon. Member for” 4
Lunenburg, and Minister of Marine and Fisher- ae

he was eminently qualified for the position, © ” |
declared Mr. Gushue. “Why he is so well) it
acquainted with fish that every time he passes
the Hollis Sea. Grill, the lobsters give him a i 4
saluation,..1 have: béen with him often and ©. *)
of Canada during the past year, the speech have yet to see it fail,” declared the speaker ae |
dealt with the agricultural coe and pro- Mr. Gushue looked upon the see | Of ie |

nd wees the aes of a. Roy eae Mr. Pett as ambassador to Shitsely Hall, eae

v1} yaa oS 7
Te econothic system, Negot tation

Throne.

The speech forecasted the legislation which
the government would propose during the session. After reviewing the economic conditions

EDITORIAL

a fm he Gazette’’ artensite condrretulations to
a Ml ee ne: tian B. A. upon his ceespt

aye
ae. > , ry ir
a») CHO ; 6
§ ne Bab pay? 4 t *. , - h AQ, | LA - A ah. | i
ee ae 9 - ay 3 nt . ¥ : 1 : ‘i rr es ron o node fr
re heen es of ‘the Gove Ps ae
: Dp il CTL re 4

4
%
1
i
ey
fa
~ ae
er e
‘
4
.
Fa
os a
oe
a = 4
=
oe
_ +
=
at
4
Z "a
-_ae
= oa
=~ u
= Vn
u rs
.
4 :
:
1%
a ia
>
a
gu
us
2
=
=
i>
i .
=
=
=
a
=> t
=
=

Py

i aa
Hi

be rom tot +

, ee his 2 Arts course at Dalhousie he
n himself to be an excellent student.
vinker rather than a mere crammer.

. ~ One has heard at ‘different times
© students at proves) at eee

Pew

eae with the West I ndies “with

increasing the exchange of products between
the Donic and that country. . ‘Labor condi
ae shld aah ey
ea Le rox
“a view.
bi a. Ce *

tions during the past year, while far from satis-.

factory, have not been a cause for alarm, Measures will be introduced to establish a satisfac.
tory means of settling disputes. between labor
and capital. A bill pro) ge 3 nim

for women and children will be brought do
at an early date. The pice tone Pinas coming
_ year will be. submitted: th ¢ Hor early
_as possible, to allow th mbers a time
“for. their’ & eration, — pes i

ae ieee

‘

eae Be We
aa Th ‘Cm ¥

Gand "Ped, ‘his only abe was. t ta |
eee would. rable st c n dy 0 positions.
for yd ‘new folk sy mit We aie

een to the remarks not the op
‘speakers. He laid particular emphasi
appointment of the Amt

Hall and told: the House of the it
had with. Mr, Pitt, who when: offered th aon c
tion readily accepted, « As to carrying Out

— duties Mr. Pearson sai he was. ot ina,

— tion to vouch for

— erals. did not ta

es Fy haere ey
= Ci Cewek
en Buf ie 0 en _ ri
| > ha | oe oe my
7 0 Ade ae ae :

c ae /

a

 
-< PRT a ae 0 ee eee ti ge fg SER te m7
7 1 s

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

COMMERCE NOTES

The Commerce class party held last week
was one of the best yet. After seeing the
pictures at the Orpheus, we were allowed the
freedom of Shirreff Hall, where a _ very
pleasant evening was spent in dancing.

Pine Hill Post

Silently they were plodding homeward
from class. Jim Langille was thinking of
Gullivers Travels, Parkes Matheson was picturing a fair bobbed head and imagining it to be
affectionately resting against his shoulder.
Laverne Cogswell was repeating over to himself the instructions which he had lately received from Lionel Strongfort, telling how to

MEDICAL NOTES

A Medical Society Banquet is to be held at
the Halifax Hotel on Friday evening. It is
expected that a large number of our friends ,
in the Medical profession will be present and
a very good evening is assured. In addition to this there will be discussions of many
matters of vital importance to you as Medical

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SHIRREFF HALL

 

What are the signs of falling in love? Coming upstairs on a bright sunny day not long
ago one of the girls noticed Allison MacCurdy
sitting at her desk, with both lights on in her
room and the blind down. When asked the
reason of it, she jumped up quickly, blushed,
stammered and declared she hadn’t noticed it.
Now I ask you?!!

RAIN

The soft rain strikes against the eaves,
Like dreamland arrows bright,

Which fall as gently as the leaves,
Though true may be their flight.

 

Kach tiny shaft with feathered blow,
Seems to caress my brain,

"i

ER TTT I ee Le LR TT RT TT TTT eT
* Ee ra TY ae ’ al 4 : : '
a ’ roe * ' . j
, >

Class ’27 Masquerade

Rudolph breezed up and swept the little oldfashioned lady off her feet. Scottish laddies
and Pierrettes, having left their purses at
home, Professors, ghosts and other awful
things stalked around, yet fear was absent
from the party. Only a Class ’27 Party could
nave been the ccene of such harmonious in
Owing to the spell of mild weather our become a He-man in three weeks, But Jimmie ial Not | M ' Crock

: : Fraser’s thoughts were evidently farther a- students, Not long ago Margaret Crocker pinned a l'o make me sleep with cadence s] congruity.
a - ae — = ae field. with a deep sigh he broke the silence. Have you read Dr. Fraser Harris’s book notice on her door so that the world in general Oh peaceful “kindly vain!) eh The costumes were as follows:
expect to begin the league this week, provided “Ah well! he'll be going to collece then.” ‘‘Science and Life’’? If not you are missing and Irene MacDougall in particular might Ladies |

the weather man is good to us.

Sammy wants to know why a woman’s
head is found on all American coins except
the cent. Perhaps it is because the govern
ment realize that where one finds cents

(sense) one never nds a woman’s head.

 

      

~ GLIMO
PHOTOGRAPHER
501 BARRINGTON ST. |

    
   
 

ee
‘

Phone S, 1395

   

Now is the time to have
your Group Photographs mad2
Special Rates to Students

 
   
    

 
 

JENSEN & MILLS CO., LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
119 YOUNG ST: |

THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES

PRICES R1GH T—QUALITY
RIGHT—SERVICE RIGHT

_ Drygoods, Millinery, Ready-to
 

“When”? inquired Eian MacLeod, who had
been thinking about his dinner and consequently was seeing things in the light of common day.

“When my Life Insurance Policy is paid up”,
Jimmie replied absently.

“Who are you talking about”? asked Eian
as he turned into a rocky path along the Railway Cut.

“My son”, said Jimmie.

The other day, during a short visit to Eddie
Ross’s room, we were reminded of the warlike
aborigines of this continent who are reported
to have been in the habit of decorating their
wigwams with the scalps of those whom they
conguered. Over Eddie’s bed there hangs a
blood-red heart. Is is a symbol of his first conquest? If Seymour Gordon and Edwin Johnstone had adopted this practice the walls of
their room would now be covered with a fearful and wonderful collection of bleeding hearts.

Murk MacLean is apparently a_ victim of
sleeping sickness. The other day he did a most
unusual thing—skipped Greek class in order
to study for an English quiz. After a short time
such was his interest in the subject he fell asleep. Like Rip Van Winkle, Murk awoke to
find that history had been made while he was

- slumbering—the English quiz had passed into

history.

Some of our theologues who go to the Strand
regularly, e. g. D. M., Grant and A. D. MacKinnon were expatiating on the talents of one
of the entertainers there who plays the banjo
in such a way as to create the illusion in the
minds of the audience that are two instruments
in action. Bill Firth who is one of our leading
cynics blankly remarked, “There in nothing
wonderful about that. You should hear Robaire MacDonald play the cornet. It sounds as
though there were twelve instruments going
at full blast.” |

Among the striking sayings of famous men
there is none more interesting from a psychol
something. Many of the Senior students will
remember Dr. Harris’s lecture on such subjects as ‘‘Mechanical devices found in the
body,’’ ‘‘Death and latent life,’’ ‘‘‘ The Physiology of sleep.’’ These and many other
topies are discussed by Dr. Harris in his usual clear and beautiful style. His diction,
the inimitable manner in which Dr. Harris
chooses the words which best express his idea,
striking and picturesque similes for which
our old and much loved master is so famous,
are in themselves sufficient to commend this
book to every student not only Medicine bue
in any faculty.

This book is to be found in the Library at
Studley and we hope soon to see it in the
Medical Library at the Forrest Building.

 

Due to action on the part of the Students’
Medical Society the Medical Library is now
open for the use of students at certain periods
during the week outside of class hours. May
the good work continue! We now ‘‘erave’’ (as
the Pine-Hillers say) some modern works on
Medicine, Surgery and medical science in
general, At present one sometimes wonders
whether we have a library of modern reference for medical students or a museum for
‘ancient literature.’ Dose one harsh words,
mistah’’, as ‘‘Red’’ Grant used to say. Well,
maybe so, but they are, at least indicative of |
the feelings of most of the students of Med
icine at this university.

Mention should have been made long before
this of the latest addition to the teaching staff
of the faculity of Medicine, Dr. N. B. Dreyer.
He has been appointed to the Department of
Physiology and comes from the Institute of

know that she was asleep, and was not to be
disturbed. This document remained _ there
for several days. Wednesday came around,
the sweeping day for the First Floor; One by
one the rooms were cleaned till Margaret's
was reached. With such a placard so prominently displayed, no wonder the poor maids
feared to enter. They passed on! On Margaret’s return? We let you imagine the scene,

The Seniors have entertained Delta Gamma
at Shirreff Hall for the last time! Though
of course we would be charmed to let them
do it again, yet we would hate to have them
repeat their year just for that. The performance was really not bad. In fact the
Juniors went so far as to say that it was the
best of the year. At any rate we feel sure all
the girls will now know how to enter a room
and how to behave at meals after witnessing
the training of the Ruggles family.

We were all delighted to see that four
Shirreff Hall girls debated in the Elimination
last week. We knew that Anne Crowdis, Pearl,
Fitz and Alice A. could be depended on to
win glory for the Hall.

Our dining room has been quite festive
since’. Wednesday when each table acquired
some of the products of the bulb growing
Competition. Miss Lowe and Charlotte deserve
a vote of thanks,

On Sunday we were glad to note that among
other distinguished guests, was Gert Mill’s
bull pup. He seems to take on himself the the
part of a social enterainer. Some law-abiding
Cape Bretoners believe that the Lord’s Day
Alliance will be after us for running acircus.

However, we have assured them that we are
outside the town limits, so are fairly: safe.

Now that Spring is in the air there has been

a general turning out of wardrobes, and several

successful second hand sales have been held

_ Alice Spronll held the most unique one, although Minnie MacLean was a close second.

But now for day sthe rain has stayed,
And now we hate its calm-—

It’s ceaseless monotone has made
The peace a poison balm,

So with my heart, when countless times
Some muffied notes it’s felt,

It eries for clearer, gayer, chimes—
For strokes more strongly dealt.

 

 

On Hill and Hall

The other day I went to Dartmouth—well
I had to go home. I took with me a copy of
che Gazette; and on the ferry, a young man
seeing me read it, introduced himself.

‘The Dalhousie Gazette!’’ he exclaimed,
as he seated himself beside me. ‘‘I’ve heard
of Dalhousie,” he went on. ‘‘I’m a Toronto
man—University of Toronto.”’ .

‘Are you?’’ I said; and, not to be avitdone,
added ‘‘I’ve heard of Toronto.’’

He laughed and put out his hand; and we
were friends. As we talked flu and fog, he
read the Gazette I lent him; and to it the
conversation soon turned. |

‘““Whos’e this fellow, Larry; writes so much
and says so little?” he asked me.

‘‘ He’s an, ex-president—”’ I began.

“Of the University ?’’ he broke in. “That.
explains the", _

It was my turn to interrupt. ‘‘No, no.’’
I said, ‘Students’ Council. But what do you
think of the Gazette?’’

‘Its good,’’ he said, ‘very good, indeed;
though I don’t get the idea of these twice
told tales—the Dental Dance and Senior
Class Party. And, too, your paper is perhaps

M. Borden—Turkish lady.
Curtis—Crossword puzzle.

. Donahoe—Harry Lauder,
Duff—Pine Hill gentleman.

. Erikson—Japanese lady.

. Fraser—Folly.

. Hagen—Old-fashioned lady.

. Marshall—Dutch girl,
Mingie—Pockets.

. A. McCurdy—Rainbow.,
A. McCurdy—Red tulip,
McLennan—Night.
Rankine—Ghost (Hamlet)
Piggatt—Minnehaha.

. Robertson—Ballet dancer,

Sedgwick—Pierette.

Wickwise—Mah Jong.

Ps Tory—Scottish girl.

M. Troop—Gypsy.

L. Trites—Old-fashioned lady.

M. Schon—Lady.

A. Wilson—Yellow.

-E=M>ROZz>=ze

GNSS KK

Gentleman:

P. Allison—Gentleman.

Rk. Benoit—Sailor boy.

W. Browers—Robin. Hood.

J. Brookfield—Sub-licutenant R .N.
S. Brown—Clown.

A, Cumming—Sailor boy,

H. Duston—Toreador.

M. Fraser—Scottish lad.

A. Freeman—Tuxedo.

J. Harrington—Surgeon.

W. Hently—Clown. 2
G. Langstroth—Spaniard.

G. Lawrence—Knight.

G. Morton—Sailor boy,

J. Morton—Professor (?). |
L. Murphy—Just me.

J. MacCleave—Pirate.

G. McKinnon—Sailor boy.

S. Olafiela—Sea Hawk.

G. Olmstead—Rudolph Valentino.

 

_
hy
it
'
j

 

‘Toni ogical point of view than that of Bearcat Har- ne. London, Dr The onlv item of importance this week is a little slight: I imagine,’’ he went on, ‘the . c

Wear and Ladies Tailoring dtoh, Yesterday morning he was heard repeat- Physiology, University pf ym nag St. Margaret Robertson’s hair cut. For weeks she Gazette is an excellent paper; and what does 2. Pike—Rudolph Vaientino. ie
| ing to himself in a half incredulous tone :— Dreyer formerly taught a ’ nek ie ‘has contemplating taking this drastic step it, is the prominence givén to the residental C. Roper—Scottish lad. y |

“Holy Smoke! I haven’t been to a dance since artholomew’s Hospital Medical ' but now that the die is cast she is as unconcern- jife. Shirreff Hall and Pine Hill occupy a A Sangster—Dalhousie Clown. 
the day before yesterday.”s 2 worked at one time with Straub at Munich | rm ed about the loss of her crowning glory as any yeny Jarge portion of your paper; and rightly. H. Wilson—Annie Laurie. ’

| fect on Bill MacOdrum. It was at that function cidentally The Seniors of the Hall, to whose member's agi Bie’ hier tkiaccge 4

; Starling. Sherrington and Clarke. Incidentally Ne | college papers; can’t do it at all. Most un- POPUlar “sucker dance” were the novelties of fe

CLOTHES SEEN AT that his manly nose first felt the caress of a arling. imi Wie halted am proud to be-long, have had their pictures : , F the evening, not to mention th val Id
. oS powder puff. Now he is doing it regularly. Dr. Dreyer is away and beyond the illest ken, and fearful an’ wonderful were many fortunate, too: the residence life helps give dancing ea ns ogy a oe exhibition ae
THE COLLEGES professor in the university overshadowing even f the expressions registered in the proofs, ® paper the college atmosphere. y udys”, ia

The Pine Hill cat on being interviewed re
 
 
  

 

el
Lu
7 ase.
re
aN

% ’

‘Now we, with proper pride, were bent on .

Miss H. Wickwire, as “Mah Jong and Mr, —

u Te)

+m

& A ©
ee

      

       

     
      
 

     

   
  

   
 

       

Vt LA

  

: ding the attack made upon his logic by Jehi tho stat of the faculty of Com- — Now we | “You certainly have nothing to complain Me,
| Ret nie last week’s Gazette admits that the ° ney eae. ea LS ie Oris a having‘ a likness worthy of us, to circulate about,” he continued. ‘‘A bright paper, amt eorten, . aa Pewee <0 were the am
TS, OVERCOATS AND 1a ce by several inches. NO Paes Sea oo ) y | lucky recipients of pri nk
SUITS, ote GS statement referred to might be construed i nee | ed) OL ae | beauty, like the Duchess of York, is of the Pine Hill and Shirreff Hall well represented, — y recipients of prizes for originality of cost.) am
aS (NISHIN such a way that it would involve a fallacy in e Medical Students G0 SEP ee a | wt the t elude: the camera, in fact, eludes it nd all of the students in residence. ’’ umes | Ta

FUR

     

. : ’
The success of the | was due largely t
party was due largely
the kindness of Miss Muriel Donahoe for al |
ee . 2 , -e Ti “2 ct ae / i
pana 4 5 P ; bi . 7 r at ae ’ LL et A 4 St ee J ‘
; a - iS 4 yi ISP aaL l ; DO a ie + Fh a 5) :
i) ’ / | Hl Le fF ree ee Me So a mie | any ’ -s Y ng the | to have at IL ‘ i , =
) He . ae u A : " eae . Ps: re eee SP =e | ee { i. oy | ~ P *. ‘ , - +, + a , . Ne = tow : A 1 ei ? " Fe ‘ a ire —— r & kro fi A’ a =e ae 1 may es 4 “Het Se f a eN 4 at =a
Tiiie as Atl ; r AD | ag” = ey ae Ls as Dis ae i ‘os : 4 r oy = == t ae , y Weta Lo ee 4 : i « ee i Tos 6, See 2 a | ae. 4 is iy + ati * ei. at (. 2a \ + Aan eh s ae Ad ‘ ar eae ;
wt r 7 Ly : a = 24 © ,;, ee J Se ae sel fe £5 ~ ier fart Fi - = = Lot : = : = —— aa - a: - I i ws ; a -_ = 4 | ; e “ ; fe = a  , f = a al ‘ Be, Soe a 7's = a sat Gaia nA * | A =a < Fs ee tb % ' E S ; a Pas 7 ; Bt Sars: , = with: Se) ee 7 oY ye 24 Rs oe " Hie ea y era seer are at a ww # ,
u a 7 . = es + ‘, , & = rss . = r= r Le j eS sas 7 i , > < = AA) ore i‘ _ e- a es a) m= re rs ZS 7 Fal 5 9 u a , * 4 J»

y 2% e e i oa. (_——_ emer ria = nay p .
7 ' =): ay ee oes Se Pe Re Ee = y a , : ?
= : : ’ bet i a ba Ji “ie? i
z ’ pa ; Fm tA 5 | , aes : .

z appears. b as
nil Sol ae Te ila
A 4 a P it A

logic. But, in the true theological manner he — their appreciation does hot f
states that it is all a matter of interpretation. If 5 readily as their criticism)

Tin:
— S"

ae is some doubt as to its «Why, no!’ I said,

‘‘Not twenty-five per
cent.’’ a a

| * —— = : f uf =" k i F ‘ f 7 eas ‘ r , => a. ; (Pu . t d }
wer fy , oe ee ae ee > : ss nt q 5 +, *~ a 22> eh eo ate aS J Se Ds ee | ; 32
* : . . F 4 ee . = : 7 =
2 r i : : : 3 m4 > r~ ug | b
¥, ; F ' | q vit eet ’ =
ty a ri J oa ae | q : :

: aa q ma av
ih RM A ot ae ath EO

ie

ty
 

 

‘ena ati

Te. Tey era 7
re. te

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

HOCKEY NEWS

CREIGHTON
HASLAM
BATES
MOORE
DUNLOP
LEWIS
WILSON
COLEMAN
ERNST

Interfaculty Basketball

Three contests were staged in this league
last Wednesday night. In the first game, the
Legalities overwhelmed the depleted Engineers by 29-11. Richardson and Gushue were
the high scorers for the Lawyers, while McLeod
found the basket most fequently for the Studleyites.

Engineers—Piers, McLeod, forwards; Doull,
centre; Horne, Hogan, Lowe, guards.

Law—Snodgrass, Richardson Morrison, forwards; Gushue, .centre; Coughlan, McInnis,
Moore guards. F

The second fixture between Dentistry and
Arts proved to be the most sensational of the
evening. The Dents were right on the heels of
the Artsmen all the way through, and the latter barely managed to nose the extractors
out by a 16—12. win, due largely to the work
of Andy Richardson. The strength of the Dents
lay in the fast, if somewhat rough, tactics of
their guards—McQuarrie and Dobson.

Arts—Richarson and Frame, F., Ross, C., McIntosh, E. Ross, Sperry, G.

Dentals—Murphy and Johnson, F., Tupper
and Godsoe, C., Dobson and McQuarrie, G.

Medicine and Theology provided a fast,
clean game from which the learned leeches
emerged victorious with a final score of 16—6.
The Meds played fast combination, with Ira
Sutherland piling up most of the baskets,
while the Pine Hillers were somewhat compensated for their lack of scoring talent by the
superfine guarding of Lig Jim McLeod,

Theology—Meikle, MeCuish, F., Forbes, C.,

 

McLeod, Proffit, G.

Medicine—Phillips, Hewat, F., Sutherland,
C., Jones, Baird, G., Doull, Sullivan.

Fabie High Scorer

Fabie Bates, Dal’s star centre,

 

lead the

scorers in the City League Hockey Series.
Fabie scored 9 goals ad his brother Mark, of
the Creseents, comes second with 8. Fabie,
also occupied this enviable position last year.

Monte Haslam comes third with 7 -— ue
ym]

his credit.

  

   
  
 
   
  

 
  

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text

 

  
 
  

Inter-Faculty Hockey
LAW 4; ENGINEERS 2

In the opening game of the faculty hockey
league Law defeated the Engineers by a score
of 4—2. The Draftsmen appeared on the
ice, after considerable delay, with two men
short and the lawyers, who had enough men
for two terms, loaned them two players, while
Allan Morton went in their nets. It was unfortunate that the Engineers failed to show
up, as it is oceuranees of this nature which
tend to dampen the interest in the league.

The contest was more of an exhibition of
hurley than hockey. Everybody was out for
individual work and team work was hardly
thought of during the game. Gushue and: MeInnis were the stars of the lawyers with Gunn
trailing close behind. Meaney was the choice
of the Draftsmen while Morrison, Friel and
Horne worked well.

The legal lights started the fireworks by
forcing the play into their opponents territory. They were met by strong opposition,
however, in the Engineers’ defence Horne
earried the dise the length of the rink but was
met by Bombardier Barry, who gave him a
sweet check. Gushue secured the rubber brt
lost it to Meaney at centre. Play went from
end to end and both goalies were called upon
to make some great saves. Friel came on for
Morrison and Campbell for Kerr. Cutie got
so excited that he forgot he was a defence
man and went up to the line leaving Horne on
the defence alone. Campbell showed that he
knew more about law than playing hockey or
hurley. After two minutes of play, Gunn
took a wing shot at Morton, who failed to
collect. There was no further scoring in the
session.

After the teams had changed ends the fray
was continued. The ‘‘E’’ guys were determined to get in the score column and kept the
rubber in the law territdry for severa] minutes. Barry, Gushue and Moore were an unbeatable defence and they kept the rubber
from going between the sticks. The minister
of militia and defence, in Pearson’s government, decided it was time his department took
a hand n the proceedings, and grabbing the
rubber took it the length of the ice and passed
to MeInnis who scored. Two minutes later
the same player sent in number three for the
barristers. After five ,minutes had gone

- Lowe sent the dise past Moore for the Engineers’ first tally. The lawyers kept the rubber
in the Draftsmen’s territory for some minutes
and Gunn scored his second goal of the game.

Cutie Friel sagged the draperies behind

Moore for the Engineers’ second tally on a

pretty individual effort.

eer

*

 

Say 3

 

: . > é . =
ts fA - e = = | SMa i “Tq
= Fi OO a
29
PS a
oe rT Cs Tore
ae ==>. ae. ae f
i oh Ps
, 3 #.
7 a a | - tts } ee
=f

| ; . J . . ts inten TBs at

a "
a Tt er a he oe ae _
ll ia mS “ , s! E mi oy “eo

a

fonte Haslam handled the whistle. ff
iP ' id a 4 z be va
Inn ena mwe . j ete ' p |

CESS ore

 

 

Victory for Dal Girls

The return match between the Truro Y.
W. and the Dalhousie girls was played in
the Studley Gymnasium on Saturday afternoon. ‘The game which was exciting was enjoyed by a fairly large audience, and resulted |
in a seore of 38—17 in favour of the Dalhousie team, During the first peried*the
Truro girls who were a bit confused but they
quickly got on to the change. The Dal team
played a splendid game all through. Their
combination was effective and several spectacular baskets were made as a result of it. The
forwards and centres played especially well
and all the team worked hard. Prospects are
good for a strenuous game with Acadia this
coming Saturday.

The Truro girls during their stay in the
city were the guests of the Dalhousie team at
Shirreff Hall where they had their lunch, It
was regretted that their stay was not longer
as a finer bunch of sports could not be found
anywhere.

The Dal line-up :—Forwards,M. Campbell,
A. Clark, M. Thompson; centres, M. Kennedy,
M. Borden; guards, H. Roberts, B. Freeman,
I. Barnstead.

The Truro line-up :—Forwards, E. Creelmen, E. Smith; centres, D. Munro, G. Aldrid:
guards, J. Smith, A. McCulloch; subs, M.

Miriam, E. Doyle.

BASKETBALL
Law Defeats Pine Hill 23—8

Sat. Feb. 21, Law won its second game of
the post-Xmas Interfaculty Basketball
League. by defeating the Theologs 23—8. The
game was a fast one and was characterized
by excellent defence work on the part of both
teams. Richardson shone for Law, while MeCuish was best man for the losers.

 

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
    
  
    
   
    
  
   
     
 
    
  
  
  
  
   
    
 
 
 

Line-up : '
LAW—Gushue, Richardson, Snodgrass.
Morrison—Forwards. Coughlan, Moore, MeInnis—Defence.

PINE HILL—MeLeod, MeCuish, Forbes,
Hawkins — Forwards. Meikle, Proffit —_
Defence. hy

 

Bill S. (Yawing prodigiously) O-ah-um. —
Prof :—How Soporific! | |

Marie Erikson: When I die, 1 want to go to
heaven, . ioe
Mabel 3 No wonder, with Peter at the gate.

hel Aare ee ae ae ae

 

 

   
 
  

DALHOUSIE STUDENTS— : x

 
 
  
  

Do you know that we have inaugurated a f
aersiak: whereby YOU. can have your 5
, an i i cath iad) akg: your ae

’ i=.
= =.
=} iH
=A he
Ps - a
* a ,
ar =
=] eS
= y
Toons re

   
 
    

 

   
    

  
   
 
   
   
