   
       

i er — | S
Gay Swe Aime eA eb: ww 6 6hEwws

 
  
 

: -_
cae de ¥ “

i nr re ee ree ne ee

 

et

      
   
   
    
    
     
 

 

 

 

 

 

    
     
  
   
   
  
   
    
       
         
  

 
 

£1 Se =. | 2h
Sane : : EE RT Ee TEN aL orem
HALICAS, 0, 6, Pee Gee re de a “No. 4
or yy ‘ SL ett y 4
oa 7 ‘The subject of the evening’s 2ebate was:— whole the most’ pleasing: and -effeetive’ or: thes ¥ ;
‘0 ane itis i Gaxette ~ Resolved that there should be an embargo on. McGill debaters. He: began with some: judic- 7
sila -.  Féunded 1809, >; the export of unmanufactired pulpw ood from jous flattery of Nova Scotians in. general and) 9
= an) Weekly cone Dollar Wer Year Cariada; ~McGill upheld the affirmative of the . then, proceeded to rebut very, successfully some,
| or-in-Ohiet © bs oar 5 ee M.A. resolution anc Dathousie. supported the, nega- of the pea epee of Ne “peony He, aM
fase . a. CES showed also the dangers of exploitation 9 our: '
peepee a u, nae seioth ah The time allotted to.each speaker was fifteen forest, resources by Our more populous neigh- 4
 " Paealty Waiters: ’ minutes with ten minutes extra allowed.to.each hour to the oStuh. He spoke in a mofeextem- a .
‘ie KK. Covert - ae ( Ap Ms Macdonald: side at. the: close of the debate in order that poraneous manner than any of the procéeding * s
we pra oe | v1 Meany the leaders might rebut the arghments of their speakers and cafried it off exceedingly well.
te Mira ai pig 8 seh Peak ase opponents. | What Carfada needs to develop more than anys! 4
_ xchange Bditor =. ~ —-- +, D0, Hebb ~—S WZ. F, Kelloway, a blond ant sturdy native thing. else, he-said, is a. natural conscjence ane | e)
Pex ‘Later, Foret | Gebren seevison, te a, Of Newfoundland. opened the debate for Mc- ' to: this end. an embargo is.a.step: in. the awiis ie

| | Sports. +) +.) Minx Blennor Barnstena Gill. It was his pleasant duty, he said, to con-, drection ecause in a measure it will teach ws”

  

    
      
  
    
 

Sta Artist: . . «..H. A Davidson vey to Dalhousie greetings from ins Principal, to act together as a nation. ? a
; veeun Coriebbondent - J. A. Duntop,’B. A. Sir Arthur Currie, and. from’ the students of _The last speaker on. the -negative side was.
eee Nee " oe oe * McGill... He facetiously remarked: that, judg- Avery F. Newcombe. -He spent a consitetatane
_ ices as ition tas apa ako’ "ing. from,.the: provinces. in which the two portion of’ his time rebutting the arguments of > +a
pee ae oP pores yosam universities were situated, the debate should be _ his opponents. This he did very eftectivelye!. {
Re are ee, ON . . -* between ‘Bluenoses’ and ‘Rednoses’, His team, He speaks’ distinctly and slowly— almost” to®

 
 
   
 

he sajd, was composed of a representative of. a fault. Yet his manner is peculiarly: convingsst 7%
Commerce, an economist and a phitesopher, He ing Undoubtedly he was: the best’ impromptu» s
din’ kriow” how his’ opponents ‘could cope to speaker of the evening both in his use. of word: V oe
sach ‘a line-lip unless they were politicians. and his arrangement of material... | ‘in

hei

___sHe» began: by stating that to’ dispute'about. . MacGregorr Grant closed the debate for Dale, a
* . figures would involve the debaters ina hopeless. housie with a particularly. forceful. and ageress
tas gle. That, however. did not prevent him sive rebuttal of his c>ponents’ arguments, ae Rei
EN vey ga le pres - ae an ping y them frequently to Support his con- pointed out as.s usual that the burden of, proof a
an ier ! rested with the affirmative, He, also made) 3
Bi asi “3 a ail subject ‘and: the judge's He" spoke easily and confidently though at much of the fact that the two at argumed
ISIN was the opiniop.of the audience, timies his voice did not carry distinctly to thos: of the affirmative—conservation” of

We mu “in past yegr $ developed a splendid ‘th the rearsedts. - . ‘ and enlarement of ind-stries to (be o poset
type of hae that Ly onl high praise from: ..Gs, MacGregor, Grant. was the first speaker : each ae As he’said, you cannot have #0
ford and Cambridge. Our scope © should, for. Dalhousie. In graceful manner, he wel-, pie.and eat it. ~ se
he the’ future’ of devating is to comed the guests of the evening, assuring them “ A. F, Kelloway, : the Me Gill leader couistall id
ng. Debates could be arranged that though the relations, existing between,the _ the, ‘debate, w ith , a yery, Clear. summary. of t
nadian Universities such a8 teams were most’ cordial, there would be no, affitmative’ ‘nosition’He also dealt shortly w ith .
Queens.or even with the Eastern mercy shown by Dalhousie” in: the thrust and the arguménts of his ‘opponents: though his res
an Universi like. Bates Harvard or. parry. of argument. : From this point he passed marks, on thé whole were more de re
| levis ieee on \in.a.most natural manner to deal seriously their nature as be"ame the léader of thea
ar , Dalhous - debates. ‘MeGit in, with the subject. _ His speech was marked by: tive side-dt-the debate; = 3 8 8
al and_it shoul d-not costa a deep earnestness of manner and.aremarkable . While the judges, - Hoh. RB. wiacCurd Yi
fo,extend the (rip to oY ey fliency, while his Arguments, ed im safuliy. Mayor. Murphy and Dean Lloyd: were 's ‘
tating ae be er A clearly presented. _ determining on a verdict. a vole lithe ne ;
D ern The next speaker 2 he zatir’ 3 was was eke, resulting. in 58 v HES Dl cae i" Cth
Eugene Forsey, . ) of the a ffirmative and 137 to the. “
the visiting in mane ’ The oa the judg it they
rapidly, quoting nanimously,.

ee hi hs rave ev vaste heck
xpe ree hat

Se

“EDITORIAL

   
   

  
 

     
     
     
  
  
   
     
    
       
  

  
   
 

 

   
 

 

I Wie | Atal srl . say
2 adit nirabie~

    

   

 
  
     
      
   
  
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
  

 
 

  

 
 

     

%
a ia
\to4 tt

     
        
 

       
     
 
  
  
 

    

  

    
  
 
   
   

 
 
     

7

  

O54
en t i |
tha

41>
J 1

rn wi

om

eck va cats Pe cote :
Skee tee ' um ‘be

2S

Ma — oa yi ee > ww
Pe sth ee ae re ae
=

| te e sm

: These gt ews
a = s
 

2 —3

i
y Ve
:
ie

“a
+»
% fy

7
fiat
i>
{) ea
4
te
ah}
*
74
bi
¢*)
ip
i
‘pl
:
3

o bein IO a: te nyt tt ae

~ = - 67 = ae
ee a err.
ae

= Sr
3

= —- 3

vw — cm - a ~

i
ea a
saiiens

a

a lala aay tari al

Cl - ae ‘ee

—
a — tema
‘e = J a i= me

- = me ES: als:

 

 

 

Pine Hill and Shirreff Hall Battle

 

The rivalry which has been brewing for
some considerable time between the aboye
institutions éxpressed itself in a fierce
struggle for hockey _supremacy recently. In
order to fit in a period whet no one would be
attending classes at Studley the hour. covering the eclipse of the sun was chosen. It was
a dark day in the annals of Dalhousie.

Shirreff Hall went on the ice as favorites,
even among some of the players on the op_ posite side. The Studley police force was

on hand to prevent quarrels among particans.
The game was handled by two Upper Canadian referees, neither of whom proved very
dexterous.

The game stated with Ruby Hayman and
Doug McDonald clashing sticks at centre.
Hayman passed to K. Smith who made a
beautiful run but was cross-checked by Art
Guill. Robb secured the puck, but Jane
Graham back-checked hard, Robb scraping
his upper lip on the boards. Jane went to
the defence and shot, but Brodie Taylor hit
the puck into a corner. Herbie Davidson
went from end to end, but was heavily body
ehecked by Graham—Davidon was _ replaced
by Doug Pike on the defence. Play became
general, and Kay Vickery brough the spectators to their feet by her flashy skating.
Both goalkeepers proved inpregnable. Dot
Berry handling the pads like a veteran. The
period ended without score. Phyllis Hilton
fainted. ) |

The second period opened with a coneerted rush by Shirreff Hall. In a mixup
near the goal Ruby Hayman beat Brody on
the head, while Jane Graham . sagged the
twines for the first score. The Hall again
attacked and were met with open arms, K.
Blanchette, Doris Stephens and Olive MoKenna replaced Ruby, Jane and Tiny. At
this. juncture a congratulatory message from
the mayor of Sussex read. The change
proved wise for shortly afterwards, Olive
eurved and twisted her way through Pine
Hill, drawing out Brodie (who came eagerly)
and netting No. 2. Pine Hill seemed to lose
heart, and shortly afterwards Doris Stephens
tore through for a score, leaving devastation
behind her. Seymour Gordon and Bingo
Harrison were sent in to stem the rush. Art
Yuill was benched for spilling K. Smith.
Heavy checking was ‘in evidence and Tiny
Garcin was sent on—the reason was seen
when she tere into Davidson, who was rough
 
  
 

hands full—upt “tors the
Mickery was caaght skating <-backwards and

was sui led; urider thie rale prohibiting unseemly exhibitions of fancy. skating. She
was replaced, by Olive MeKenna. Art Yuill
skated in on Dot Berry and she went to her
knees—Art turned pale and was last seen
going in the general direction. of Pine Hill
saying ‘‘No, No’’ firmly and with inereasing
emphasis. Brodie'was called on to stop a hot
one but did so-capably. McDonalds and
Armstrongs combinations were much admired
—Armstrong scoring off one of those pieces
of play. Play roughened up and the referees
cautioned all players. Pine Hill wanted to
kiss and make up, but but did merely the
former while the Hall girls attended to the
latter. Seymour Gordon went in on the
wing, and was heavily checked to the boards
by Kay Blanchette, falling helplessly to the
ice. He was carried off and the spectators
couldn’t see more Seymour. Kay was given
a major penalty and the spectators from
Pine Hill cheered. K. Smith sent a hard
shot to Brodie who saved, but Ruby swooped
in on the rebound netting No. 4 for the Hall.
With two minutes to go Pine Hil sent in their
reserves and Doug Pinke displayed stellar
form. Dot was casting aside the shots a la
Duke MelIsaac. Pine Hill concentrated on
the other goal leaving their defence wide
onen. Tiny took advantage of this by skating
through and after spilling Brodie who came
out to save, scored.

At this moment the sun started to come out
of eclipse and the referees decided to call full
time, fearing that others might see the encounter and acquire a taste for gore. The
usual cheers were not given. The Pine HilF
players went off the ice preteeted closely by
the police. Final score Shirreff Hall 5, Pine
Hill 2.

The line up was as follows:

“PINE HILL:
Goal—Brodie Taylor; L. D.—Herbie Davidon; R. D—Art Yuill; Centre—Doug MeDonald; R. W.—Maurice Armstrong; L. W.
—Robert Robb; Spares—Bingo Harrison,
Doug Pike and Seymour Gordon.

SHIRREFF HALL:

Goal—Dot Berry; L. D.—Tiny Garein; R. D.
—K. Smith; Centre—Ruby Hayman; R, W.
—Kay Vickery; L. W.—Jane Graham;
Spares—Olive McKenna, Doris Stephens and
K. Blanchette.

 
  

 

 

ae “a the | shoulder. Kay

 

The Dalhousie ‘Girls’: Conference

» The; Dalhousie , Girls’ ». Couferenge »vheld
under the auspices of. the .Delta. Gamma
Society, was a decided. success, The purpese
of the conference was to tell the Dalhousie
students something about the Canadian Girls
in Training, their programme and their need
for efficient leaders.

The opening meeting was on Friday evening in the Shirreff Hall drawing room, at
which meeting Harriet Eliot, president of
Delta Gamma, presided. To start the girls
in a joyful mood a few songs were sung, some
old, others new—pertaining to C.G.I.T.
favorites. Miss Marjorie Trotter, Maritime
Girls Work Secretary, was then introduced.
Miss Trotter gave a very excellent talk to
those fifty present and made the C€.G.I.T.
purpose and need very clear. She outlined
the teen age as one, if not the most important of all a person’s life. In that age from
12 to 17 they are making very important
physical adjustments, intellectual adjustments, intellectual adjustments, spiritual adjustments and social adjustments. It is very
important that these natural growths be helped on and guided in a wise manner. It is
first up to the home to do this, then the
church and school, but also to a leader of
some girls group. The C.G.I.T. trys to meet
these necessary adjustments but the group
must have a leader, an older person, to try
and give the girl a helping hand, not necessarily lead her but rather guide her. No
special appeal was made to the Dal students
for leadership, but the facts of the case were
presented so clearly that only one conclusien
could be drawn.

Miss Trotter explained the organization of
the groups, the code, and by request, the importance of camp and its training. It was a
talk not only to the girls, but with the girls,
and questions, answers, and diseussion followed. The close of the first meeting was very
impressive as they sang the ‘‘Taps,’’ se
familiar to the 0.G.1.T. groups.

After the meeting the girls were divided,
according to the books of rated authors, for
the purpose of systematic group work on
Saturday. A chairman for the Sunday vesper
service was also choosen.

SHIRREFF HALL

S is for Shingles, shorn short up the baek;
H is for Hibrow, or even hardtack;

I for the person we talk most about;

R for the Ronge, that always stands out.

R for the Rudys—poor fish—that eome here;

  

 

as g te by “th
Commerce .students ‘on Jan: Sek:-wadeow

onel: Montgomerie; general “manager of the

Furness Withy Steamship:-Co:.. ¢; :
) Pp Co:, gave a.
the British Merehant Marine. = oes
Col. Montgomerie traced the development
of the Ocean traders to the present day
—— om ip. a ae the importance
: great trading fleet
oa € fleet as a means to en.
. This is the first leeture heard this year, but
it is the hope of all that there shall be many
more, if they are all as interesting as the one
given by Col. Montgomery.
oo Commerce hockey team is patiently
- ting the opening of the inter-faculty
eague. We expect the Commerce fans to
support their team by being present at the
games.
se ane are due Reg. Piercey as he
a been elected captain of the “‘Dal” gecond
cam. Reg. feels more practice can capture
the eity league laurels.
Sammy wants to know why all the “Da)’
erowd leave after the first game? Sammy
argues that a team can not be expected to
win when all the spectators are cheering for
the opposing team. Why not make up and
take an interest in our national game'f
When a woman’s lips are cracked
She Uses. grease; ’tis said ;
I wonder why the Freshman
Puts ‘“‘groom”’ upon his head?

 

, soiitiamaaniailil
a b y sn an awful fright last night.
Bell: ow you did; I saw you taking h

back to the Hall. " or

 

It seems strange for a cat to have nine
lives; but just imagine a frog that croaks
everyday !

 

Ben: I see-the Shirreff Hall girls have
stopped wearing their stockin usage
fashion rine

Har: ‘Sausage fashion! What do

%

Class Jewelery |

Ben: Below-knees-of course.

/ BIRKS
for

 

   
 

CIGARETTES
“Mild and

tra Fine”

   
    

Beauty Deformed

7 .
MMMM hte Midhiidiiiiitn HLM LLL Whdidld 7 c

Dalhousie
Studen ‘s

 

A phantom child she seems to be
So delicate her face, :

He startled eyes you vaguely see
Neath curling lashes lace.

‘And yet her lifes’ ¢lear blush of youth

Students’ Lo eaf Books and

Supplies of |

 

Is she a goddess young forsooth!
Sent down to toil below!

MALL LLL (Lite MLA LLL

Ah! see her hands so long and white!

No child’s—a woman’s hand; _
She speaks, and to a baneful light,
He eyes dim flash is fann'd.

| Frank M. O’Neill & Co. Ltd:

160 GRANVILLE STREET.

A burning, though a timid, hate

Has spoiled her childlike grace ;

She seem to wilt beneath her fate—
To spurn the human race,

Phinneys Limited |.

    

 
  
   
   
  
  

     
 

  
      
 

   
 

       
    

 

    
   

   

       
   

Siheh Mastic op vepleosd ty State REMNANTS H tor onr Wffort the fishes to enare; ois te
nArmstrong, who was almost immediately wnciace F for our fairness which ‘‘Coty’’ improves: | | She stands—a crooked dwarf mite! | Equip
‘ om for innate a few love taps with F for the Foolishness every girl loves. ~ aan, her bitter glance! YOUR HOCKEY TEAM

»\K. Viekery. Robb who was playing a great R--for our Raoster who sings s brave tune. Hf for the Hill thet we talk most about ak avely bear her plight, Sweaters and Stockings in “Dal” cod oa two nm reeomt {tek bamesetine Kt eon Mister | BS Sit arate |

oe ae - . ! } L $0 4 | art: | . ee u range f Hoc ,
siete. 3 wos ine and Tarions. Qpocdy. No~far cop enaion nemuey medeirme, — Lie tae emeene soem qulle poert. Oh better tobe deat or Blind Pay n Sporting Goods Dept ome
“eatured by pretty individual work and A—for the Ainger, nd plucks to receive. | Schi Remm ¢ ) ~ uch know not-what they loge— ae erms To All Clube |
.~ “bination were to be seen. Feeling N—for our Need of more fame to achieve. se tates : Petter to be dead than grind — Come in and get our prices, A.

Seam th rtirels fous soe: © ter Se Saga Oy have to wlohe Fine HO Ye ve | re ee: ee

     
 
   

  
   

GG: 1'T. Leader's Conferenée*

 

On Saturday afternoon at 3 o’clock the. .G. I. T. Conference was resumed. ~ The programme opened with a sihg song of Cc. G. I.
T. songs which was followed by a demonstration of the C. G. I. T. meeting given by a
group from the city. The demonstration was
very favorably carried out and gave the Dalhousie girls a very good idea of how the meet-_
ings should be conducted. Miss Trotter
spoke to these girls on the subject of ‘‘The
Out Doors,’ and asked for their various
opinions on the pleasures there derived. The
meeting was brought to an end by ‘‘Taps’’.
And all the Dalhousie girls. even to their
various groups drew up a college girls code,
discussed the qualities of a good leader, the
value of C. G. I. T. to teen age girls and a
criticism of C. G. I. T. from the four standpoints of Social, Religious, Physical: and Intellectual. When these things were accomplished a half hour was devoted to preparing the group stunt which was staged directly after supper was finished.

Wondrous and spectacular were the stunts
put on, indeed some were quite startling to
the beholders. The Dickens group quite
horrified timid souls when they pictured
Henry VIII sending his many beautiful,
| axe. nothing could have been
nove oruesome looking than the, frightful
visaged executioner, but again, never was
there a sweeter Queen than Anne Boleyn.
The Seots group earried out the Seotch idea
very effectively when they put on a seene
from the ‘lady of the Lake,”’ in fact it was
a very conerete ‘‘surprise” which fell to the
earth. The Conrad group put on a new kind
of a Russian burlesque which with its
horrible yells and shrrieks tried to eonvinee
us that it was singing. The Barry group
evidently thought marriage was no longer
the subject of solemn thought but should be
aceompanied by jazz band from the altar
while representatives of one group so com

wives to the

pletely ,acted..the parts of various college:
students, in and about Pine Hill that even

Herbie Davidson and. Jigger Grant would
have been deceived in thinking them their
doubles. Last but not least was diseosed to
our adiniring eyes ‘‘The
Hamlin’ in which even the rats (which by the
way should haven been on the third floor)
pranvetl around like living creatures, startling the most timid by their like motions. The
mayor and corporation seemed to be having
great difficulty in breathing due to their cor
pulence while the piper praneed around as if’

These stunts were
comparison
meeting

treading on egg shells.

all voted very good and after a

of the findings of each group the
dosed with ‘‘Taps.”

The final meeting of the conference was held
| Sunday. The order of ser-_

in Munro room on
vice was as follows:
I. A h , Now

a
‘
4
’ * °
= a i ’ al
«
i ( ; ¥ c
‘) , y
~~
ao ~
:
*
yt * ?
' . *

 
  

we unite to pledze a now

ae os ee

“cofinetted, with the,tlteme of. the service and the

of the service.

Pied Piper of

", This hymn is called 5 ae .
z-Rondotply rend severtl por

      

  

an

, v :
sv cdapaaabie? PREM PG

_ -"e
TF of ‘a
° |
ce... Shoe ats

eciyeens EE Ten | etufay’ attawai' es 993g ee wag. Tg it fhe : ; ) sae: "iy rf ih
tions from th Scriptuges after which she gave- .. Pine H.
her own interpretati “UpOti*it.-. It was closely *:- ete ne

 

' Soe

address which followed. ° - We note ‘with mingled feelings* that’ the
IL Elinor Sigedgtesd and Elieabeth Morton Oiub'-beciitus leat work tir Ghitre@’ Hall,
then lead in prayer. -° my of ‘course it, 18 only a harmless little orgamzo ' ; , ation--a Bulb-growing Club, but that is the’
IV. Dorothy ‘Barrie- played a very beautiful cage aP
: bea . way in which this disease always begins to
piano solo. which greatly added to the finenes develop.!. In such a manner it started at Pine
Hill. a long time ago and the infection has’
gradually spread until: now we are sorely‘
afflicted, eo . cers
‘Clubs’ may come and ‘Clubs’ may go but!
once started ‘the club ‘idea’ goes on forever.
It is true that the Moustache Club is dead—’
disbanded. Dunphy, the last active ‘mem-:
ber, came to grief when his hand slipped .
while trimming his vigorous growth witha
dull pair of scissors. (Robb never belonged) .,
But though this old phoenix has passed away, '
not one, but a whole flock of little ones has,
grown out of the ashes. 3 ‘
The most outstanding example is the gregt
Scout niovement which, spoysored by Bob,
Scott, has gained many, proselytee. _Jigger;,
Grant, our pulpwood expert, estimates that ,
if the lumber whieh has pee by this
organization for scout’ staffs had been allowed ,
to grow it would have been the means of .
saving the pulpwood situation.

Pine Hill almost lost a towel the other day ;
when Brenton took it over to English class;
with one of it tucked precariously into his
hip pocket. Some are inclined to jest about
this incident but there are certain encouraging features about it. Surely it is better to
forget to replace your towel than to forget
to wash your face. :

We have acquired two new residents
recently.. One Archie MacIntosh hails from
Annapolis and appears to be normal in most respects. We shall report his weakness as we
discover them. The other neweomer 1s
Cogswell. There is some doubt as to his first ,
name. It begins with an ‘L’ and the most °
popular version of it is Luey. He rooms with ’
Robaire MacDonald and consequently will be _
lulled to sleep by nightly radio concerts. _
Some ‘days ago a wild rumour got abroad :
With lots of soft white hair, | that the Ku Klux Klan had formed a branch
—Quelqu’an. organization in the Residence. They had been
1 seen flitting down the darkened corridors and ~
a fiery cross was éxpected to appear at any
moment. But in the end it turned out to be
Art Youill and his followers practising for
the Senior’s Masquerade Dance...

The Pine Hill cat wants to know who it was
wrote the verses about us in the last issue of
the Gazette. There is a feline touch about
them that interests him. |

\. A Hymn, “Breathe on me Breath of God.”

VI. A Duet—“I would be True” nicely sung
by K. MacLennan and Jean Méssinger.

- VH. Ihe address. by Miss Trotter, A finer
closing could not, be more desirable. Miss Trotter first of all gave several well know quotations and ended with the folowing as a text:
“Oh friend, we never find the betterpart,
Until we set the cross up in the heart.”

She then spoke of several ways that the
college girl could set the cross up in her heart—
secking culture,.service, God, and many other
very practical ways. It was aj fine talk ane
one would do well to discuss and inquire about
its value | :,

Vill. A Hymn, “Father in Heaven who lovest
All” This was followed by the benediction
given by Avis Mrashall, who was in the chai

In all, the conference was very interesting
and instructive to those who attended. May
results be evident in the near tuiure.

THE LADY IN THE MOON

 

The lady in the moon, they say,
Is beautiful and fair; |
They say she has eternal youth,
They praise her lovely hair.

[ used to sit and wonder, once,
How these things coud be,

But now I smile at them
Beeause, you see, I know.

Dne night I saw her inadream, —
And now it is quite clear, aids
The lady in the moon is old—

‘! CLOTHES SEEN AT
THE COLLEGES *

SUITS, OVERCOATS AND
FURNISHINGS

To Please The College Man.

  

  
  
  
  
  

 

  
  
 
 
   
 

these verses show unmistakeable evidence of

 

We might say that to a casual observer —

ty

     
  
 
 
  

 

‘ ; ; qe Sea 7 : *
a egg MNT atta ot Ree Pees

 

- |
~Place—The ‘Library,. Shirteff Hall, Halifax.

- TimeSunday eveneing.

“Several girls are sitting around the fire and, Victory over the St. @

one is describing a Spanish bull fight

Gert Mill’s Boston Bull is promenading in

the hall.
_. The story continues:’,.

who lowers his horns and

Florence Sedgewick. nauseat
_sedgewick. nauseated, rises
walks out into the hall.

‘AS a red rag to the bull. so is red hair to

_ a bull dog! ! 1! :
Were Exit. Florence

Miss Trotter who spent the week end with
us was rather startled the morning after her
arrival, when Katherine Vickeroy burst in upon
her with the breathless request that she come
and look at Grace's boil. Whether Katherine
mistook her for one of the Victorian Order
adverse to wearing the conventional costume
or whether sha felt it her bounden duty to
Show the stranger the Sights of the place as
soon as possible, time did not permit her to
explain as a nurse in uniform issucd from. the
Office at that moment and claimed the privilege,

At the Conference on Saturday evenine we
were deeply thrilled to have several male
visitors honour us with their presence, ‘The
climax was reached when. Herbie Davidson
and Jeger Grant entered. Thev wete received
with more than customary enthusiasm. Other
welcome visitors were Mr. and Mrs. Clarence
SSpenser, who strangé to sav were seeking a
divorce, Although such a state of affairs may
seem impossible to many. one never knows
when the unexpected will happen. Paes

the next arrivals were the Frat. boys with
four initiates in the lead. .

We all assembled in the hall for the fun
and were not disappointed. Each performer
was especially talented in his own line. Harret even suspected after her dance with Henry
Townshend that he would have danced quite
nicely if it hadn’t been for the cave man stu®
_We would ‘recommend Al SSmith to take
singing lessons from Mr. McDonald, such a
voice should-be trained and trained carefully.

If appealed to us that Don Smith showed
suspiciously great ease when he proposed to
Flo, Here's a tio for you boys, in case Don
is too bashful to tell you himself. Always
take the “lady of your heart” a bonquet when:
you mean to pop the question. Then if she
ae No !!! you can get out of it most grace.
fully by saying, “take these flowers ( in Dons
case a potato masher) they won't blossom for
me; perhaps they will for you.”

Bob Doull’s recitation and highland fling
were beyond description. |

During her recent illness. Jean Cumming
was so far gone as not to be able to relate
cause and effect. But on ae gradually
realized what was making he eyes hurt so terrifleally. The cause was none other than a
brillant and tremendous highlight on her nose.
In pain and humiliation she immediately sent
for cold crean and powder.

 
  
 
 
 

 ‘The.S. P. C. A. is sueing Ma aret McKa
for brutality to her live st the turtles. fond.
ly named Love.and Romance: - The bitterest

   

a oe i il 1 3 4

to y if 5 3 i "

ee wes "

coe So Y ;
sy i. te J r= ar . >
| eo 4 ca ; *
: i ={ | : ;

| \ ‘ i

Ls —— :
o

v7
‘

oR So SE DT:

joie. SHERREFF HALL...

G .- and then the
_ Matador waves a_red cape in“front.of.the bull

and

  
    

that some frlends may be raised! up to organize top, d;_

 
       
    
    

Dal Gym on Saturday night:

ially in the latter part of the second half.

bright for a championship year.
Line up:

: DAL—Forwards—-Made 11,” MeLean : 8,
Centre—Doe, Smith 10,  Defence—Milter ‘I,

A Smith, Spare—McQuaid 3. |
SSeS

BASKETBALL SECONDS LOSE 18—8

 

_ The Dal Intermediate Basketball squad put
up'a good exhibition against the St. George's
Seconds but were off on the shooting Several
pretty combination plays . were wasted w

poor shooting. Douglas was Dal’s hich
scorer, .

j ny , mwa sail
DAL—Forwards—H ewatt, Douglas, Lang’ 14 : *
stroth, Harrison, Centre—Brown, Guards—
' Miller, Sperry, Me Quarrie.

pen eneineeenee-,

Spring Term Basketball League

—_—,—

 

INTERFACULTY 1925

 

SAT. FEB. 7 th.

CE ks A ee 2.30—3.15
BPN FE TRO fcc Fe 3.15—4.00
BO, FR ie oe oe -4.00-—4.45
SAT. FEB, 14th.
VE BW ew iets ee 2,30—3,15
Dante ee Ave 3.15 —4.00
Theol vs. Meds ......-.......... 4.00-—4.45
SAT. FEB. 21 st.
POOR, WE AYU wn sidnimn debian ---2.30—3.15
Law TE: TROUE need hs 3.15—4.00
Eng. Vi. DON oscnnsdensage os 4.00—4.45
oh SAT. FEB, 28th, |

Arts vs, Law ....... pirithrn i kite 2.30-—3 |
Toeok Ve, BAM cevecdaanica >.< eenkin |
Meds vs, Dents ._.._._... 6 aa

' SAT. MARCH 7th.
Dante we FWOR divin cic ceen. 2,30—3,.15
Moda Vi. LAW occ sck ccceeccocen. 3.15—4.00
BG V8. ATE os ccitnanivnenachivon 4.00—4.,

 

 

report to date is that Love is much worse for experience, her shell is softening which is a
fatal sigh). Roinance, howevér, does not seem.
to have stiffered by Margaret’s cruelty.

Francis’ Milner is ‘starting a ‘campaign for title

finding a five cent piece with:a hole in it for
Irene Modill to use in the telephone. - We appreciate the’self abandonment that inspired her
to initiate such.a movement. and earnestly hope |

  
   
    
 

a

é 
ay

The Senior. Basketball Team wis an easy
eorge’s Team in the:

3 Both periods were fast and: MeQuaid ‘outfit figured in excellent combination espec
This is-Da’s second win and prospécts are

Dal Wins in Basketball 33—18 pst
etball 33— a Cc: o 7 ne
maT a " 4 Dal Girls’ First Team Victorious

 

On Monday, January 26 in the Dal gym-,’
nasium, an interesting game was played be
tween the Y. W. C. A. and the Dalhousie
teams. The second team game resulted in:
a score of 22—12 in favor of the Y. W.. The
‘game- was rather slow and: for the niost part.
the visiting team was superior to the home.
team. Miss Worthy, the gym instructress at
the Y. W. C. A. refereed the game, |

On the other hand the Dalhousie first teatn
won by a score of 19—13 ina fast but ex-:
tremely rough game, many penalties being.
‘ handed out. Both teams showed consider.

able ‘‘pep” but did not plas as well as they
should have. Mr. Sterling refereed in his
usual satisfactory manner. Rooters for the’
_ Y¥. W. C. A. were more in evidence than those
for Dalhousie, |

On Wednesday afternoon in the Halifax

Ladies College gym, the Dalhousie girls’ first .
and second teams defeated the H. lL. C. in a 3
friendly match. The Ladies College has just
begun. to practice for another match ‘but
nevertheless they put up a splendid defence
Miss Ward refereed. The following girls
played for Dal. .

First Team—For—M. Campbell, A. Clark,
B. Freeman, Cen—M. Kennedy, M. Borden
(+.—J. MacRae, E. Barnstead. ,

 

 

Second Team—For—A. Atherton, M. |
Thompson, M. Burroughs, Cen—V. Claney,
J. MacKenzie, G.—M. Schon, L. Girvan. De |
Sydney Defeats Dal 3—1 e |

   
   
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
   
     
 
  
         
   
      
         
      
     
      
      
   
   
   
       
    
 

 

s seo all Siar Sydney, teain, picked from the |
anferent cis there, defeated Da!'s’ Seniour !
Hockey Team in that city on Friday nivitt |
The came is Ceerrily / : = is . ais
oe aie 28 EStHived as one Of the fastest...
xen IN Sydney since the days.of Pra, Hos ey .
" Bi first_ period was scoreless, hot’ leas a
visplaying a fine brand of hockey and heti, |
eri nei Maclssac for Sydney and
wis: Tor Dal, ‘being called upon t¢ nany
gc n to mak ,
many hard saves, acts | ee
Sydney scoréd tyo eoals in aut i
me he rine : ts © goals Nn duck succession
1 tees nd stage, “Pricky” Dunn, formerly
of Dathousie, featuriny along with “Hi” Brown
: ue St. F. X. Star. The Tigers worked ©
‘ard to overcome the lead but “Duke” proved
to be in his old Dal form and would not relent,
Each team scored once in |
score standing 3—4,

Fabie ‘Bates was probabl the te an
man on the ice, and as “Babio” ae oe oven a
the fans were quite willing to accord him thi : | Li

the third secene, j

 
  
  
  
    
    
 
     
  
 
  

The line-up, | | | | a
SYDNEY—“Duke” Mclssac g&; Rudderham, ee

Joseph, Preshie, d; Browr = mea oe

in, MeDonal, , °°" NN MNS Mar

i=

   
   

  
    
   
 
 

  
   

  
  

  
  
 

Fete

Pop ie 8
pddenpete NT ACL AL I CT IE Se =

if
i
i

 

ee ee

Cameron. Only recently has thé secret. been .
révealed that he is erigaged td Mids Elsie
Moffat of Mount Feredits, Scotland, and the
joy and surprise of his many friends at
Dalhousie, and throughout Nova Sectia is
very sincere.

Miss Moffat, the daughter of Provost James
Moffat J. P., O. B. E. and of Mrs. Moffat is
not only a very charming lady but also a
very famous one, being known throughout the

Scottish country for the great part she played throughout the war as her father’s right
hand. She was a splendid organizer of Flag
days, garden fetes and song lectures, all of
which showed her ability in that direction.
Large sums of money were raised at each, as
well as much comfort given to the soldiers.
She also aided in raising money for philanthtopic institutions and her latest crowning effort was when she took an active part
in raising funds by another song lecture and
gathering in subscriptions and work for the
Forforshire staill in connection with Lord
Roberts Memorial Workshops, Dundee, of
which Mrs. Moffat was convenor, and which
proudly topped the list with the largest total.
The folks of Forfar are very pleased to know
that one of their daughters who contributed
as much of her time besides raising large
sums of monéy single handed it to the credit
sums of money single handed is to be recompenced in a happy home of her own. Proffessor Cameron is no stranger in Forfar, being the son of Mrs. Cameron, Fernbank, and
of the late Mr. David Cameron, son, Lawrence-kirk. He had a_ brilliant career and
was formerly a lecturer in St. Andrew’s
University. He obtained his present position
as Professor of Anatomy at Dalhousie

several years ago and is not only a distinguished schoolar in Canada but a well liked

professor in our own college. The wedding
will take place in Forfar in the spring and
when he and his brode come to Halifax they
will indeed receive a hearty welcome.

 

«(* < ; me . 7
5 » altel ‘ J i . e — Pe,
ofl  & * 2 a oor .
ee re mere “ihe
. j a .
i
;

' “ , ah 4.
° : * ; 2 i _' a », « te 20" - ' >
Congratulations‘ *'to ’* Prokeseen “John: 4...

_.I saw Princeton University for the first tirtie.
It: struck me as the most beautiful complex

 
   

>

Scotts‘Men’s Wear
30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Headquarters for Dal. Boys
A splendid stock of furnishings of all
kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats and

Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suitcases and Bags. ,

-- THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE .;* * |
“Who travels, learns. On Saturday Jan 3,

    
    

of college buildings in. America. Particular
ly admirable is the Graduate School, with its
tall tower from the top of which you ‘can see
the Atlantic. It is the best Oxford plus
Amereain comfort and common sense. Here
live—wie Gott in Frankrei¢ch—two Dalhousie
graduates, McCurdy and Jackson. Thése
buildings represent the triumph of the collegiate Gothic, ‘Vicisti, and John Ruskin.’
It is the one American university I know with
the authentic air of academic leisure. Men
there have time to think and freedom to
grow, Princeton is productive. I had the
pleasure of meeting Harper, the authority on
Wordsworth, and Osgoode, the authority on

 
   
   
   
 

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

  
    

DON’T FORGET WE'RE ON THE
CORNER

  

 

From Six to Sixty,--
the beys who thrill with desire for greater
athletic accomplishment are the boys whe

 

Spenses. piek :
Princetown also represents the triumph of

the Dalhousie idea. Two graduates of the ' EQUIP
Little College hold most important positions A MENT

there. Graham has a chair in Economics and

Allan Johnson is full professor of Greek, Com to

having reached the highest place in the hierarchy of an American University, not pér
saltum, but by honest long continued labor.
Last year, when ‘‘approached’’ both by
Cornell and Yale, Princeton gave him his
well-earned promotion. He has completed
a remarkable work on Greek and Latin inscriptions, which is ready for publication.
It will throw new and most important light
on the municipal organization of the Roman
Empire.

Seeing is believing. Both these professors
live in a row of houses just built by the
governors (or trustees) warmed, and supplied with hot water, at a rental of sixty
dollars per month. ae
. Surprising in how many American universities Dalhousians are to be found as
teachers. I found two in Harvard, in the
same department: I Had speech per’ telephone with a third in , Boston University.
‘They were Webster, Murray and Davis.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

—Archibald MacMechan

Nova: Scotia Nurser?
1088 to 1090 asides St.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

BARRINGTON ST.

FOR ANYTHING YOU NEED IN
EVERY LINE OF SPORT

 

 

—h —_

  
  
   
 

HIGH CLASS BARBER

5

Up to date Shop, with four chairs,
and first class barbers in attendance.

Special Bobbing Parlor for Ladies

A. Publicover
23 Spring Garden Road

   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
    

 

 

   

Dalhousie 7—Dartmouth 1
Playing in real ¢hampioriship form the
Dalhousie Tigers took Dartmouth, local
league leaders, into camp to the tune of 7—
in a regular city league fixture at the Marks.
Crogs Arena on Jan. 27th. The game was
not as one sided as the score would indicate,
territory being evenly divided throughout
and it was only the stellar work of Lewis in
the Dal nets that prevented the Darts from
having a higher seore. It was real hockey
from gong to gong featuring in fast skating,
sappy stick handling and clear hard checking. Dartmouth was without the services of
their regular net guardian, Webby, but it is
questionable if the result would have been
any different, even if he had been between the
posts, for Dal worked splendidly around the

nets and made most of their scores on lose
in shots. .

Fabie Bates showed real gameness, when
after having his nose broken in the first five
minutes of play, refused to leave the ice. He
played one of the best games of his hockey
eareer—which is saying a lot—always on the
puck and working like a Trogan around the
Darts’ nets. Lewis and Haslam played their
usual good games, while Ernst and Creighton
worked well. Wilson had a night off and
sould not seem to get going. Maurice Beazley, Smith and Patterson were the choice: of
the Habitants,

Referee Butler sent the teams into action
at sharp 8.15. L. Beasley secured the
rubber and passed to his brother, who carriea
it into Dal’s territory. Play went from end
to end and the goalies were called upon to
show their wares early in the game. The
period was five minutes old when Bates,
receiving a pass from Haslam, sent the dise
past Bagley for the first counter. Radford
‘receiving the puck from the face off sallied
down the left lane and sent a hot one at
Lewis, whe turned it aside. Patterson missed
a beautiful chance to score, when he failed to
connect with L. Beazley’s pass. Radford
called upon Lewis twice but found the Dal
pad artist at home to receive all callers.
Eleven minutes had gone when the husky
left wing of the collegians took a jaunt down
the left aisle and sent a high wing drive at
Bagley, who failed to collect. It was a pretty
goal. Three minutes later Bates duplicated
when he d in Haslam’s rebound, Has.
lam scored hig second goal a minyte afterwards, when he took a shot outside the
defence, which struck Patterson and landed
in the net, ‘Prailing behind four counters
Bishop’s colts took on a new lease of life,

5

 

 

— —— — : . j " p j

‘ St Steer lls 4h 4, Foti Ft SP |. amet -. at... ree " * 4 ;
‘ . 4

ad Dalho ie Wins if Hacks;

       

ete

‘their faces, Lew Beasley secured the disc
at the face-off and carried it to Lewis’ feet.
Radford, M. Beazley and Patterson took shots
at the Dal net guardian but failed to register.
Six minutes had gone by when Smith grabbed
a loose rubber. behind his net and taking a
run down centre ice sent in a long drive,
which Lewis failed to collect. This proved
to be Darts’ only tally. Dunlop, who was
playing a great game, took the rubber the
length of the rink and passed perfectly to
Ernst, who sagged the draperies behina
Bagley for Dal’s fifts score. Play went
- end to end but no further scoring result
Bishop’s employees opened the final session
by forcing the play into the enemy's territory. Wilson uncorked a great rush down the
left isle but a wide shot prevented him from
scoring. Bates and Haslam kept boring in on
Bagley but he was stopping all flying rubber
that came his way. Creighton registered the
Tiger’s sixth counter when he bulged the
twine behind Bagley from 4 mixup in front
of the Dart’s nets. The Blue and White
boys sent four men to the line in an attempt
to boost their score. Dunlop grabbed the
dise and going from end to end passed perfectly to Bates, who slapped in the final
score of the game. The gong sounded with
Dartmouth working hard for a score.

Harry Butler and Lee Fluck refereed and
were called upon to deelare only one penalty,
on Haslam for tripping, which was entirely
unintentional.

Dalhousie line up :—Goal, Lewis; deefnce,
Dunlop and Wilson; centre, Bates; wings,
Haslam and Creighton; subs, Ernst, Moore
and Coleman.

. —J. MAC.

Basketball Intermediates Win

With twenty seconds to go Dal’s Second
Basketball Team slipped a basket over the
Wanderers in their game of Jan. 27, and
won by a score of 27 to 26. Dal had the edge
of play but long shots instead of more combination prevented a higher score. |

Dal line up:

Forwards—Hewat, Douglas, Harrigon.

Centres—Morton, Bevion. we

 

 

She: Deo you eat pork
He: No, ‘‘dew’’?

She; Can you row a boat?
He: No, canoef

we Fy Behe

| dog Jean Messeng
| mind it wi

 
    

an ‘0!

 

Ve ih,
dill

es aes at PSY ee i rs ees
ee ul ae fh ald Gat) SPN a oe ad

 

  
  

 
  
  

  

“eu

= “A Gee on he evans a
Basketball...

Intermediate Game

 

eo eenatle 2; Dartmouth 1
ci ae second time this )
intermediates defeated heme rt
by a score of 2—1, The game was hotly m
apes, each team dishing up a good brand of
ockey. It was a clean game and was featuy
ed by fast skating and good stick handlin,
Dalhousie Secured a goal in the first aa
second periods, While Dartmouth secured
their lone tally in the fina] frame. Ta Langstrath and Moore played well ter he
ae Tigers, while Hoskins, Jackson oat
oe — the shining lights of the Junior

Dalhousie rushed the rubber j
mouth 8 territory at the start an het rs
Opposition worried for the first few minutes,
Jackson relieved and went the length of the
rink to send a hard drive at Moore. Pierce
returned a rubber and sent a hot shot
at Hoskins. Play went from end to end and
both pad artists were called upon to make
sensational saves. Twelve minutes
elapsed when Langstroth took the puck down
the right lane and passed over to Taylor, who
sent in Dal’s first counter. Play livened up
but there was was no further scoring in the
session.

Cummings came on for Taylor at the open:
ing of the : second frame and securing the
puck at the face-off made a call upon Mr,
Hoskins who received him reyally. Dutchy"
Martin brought the spectators to their feet
with a great rush. The rubber remained in

Dal’s territory for several minutes, but no ’

score resulted. Altho Moore was called
upon to make some great saves, Sangster
and Langstroth got away on a beautiful
piece of combination, with the former bang
the rubber past Hoskins for Dal’s second
counter.

The final frame was six minutes on when
Jackson uncorked a dazzling rush down the
left wing and sent a hard drive at Moore,
which had him beaten all the way. This tally

raised the hopes of the Dartmouth spectators —

who called for the tying tally, but such was

not forthcoming. For the remainder of the ©

period Dartmouth kept the rubber within
Dal's territory, but the good work of Moore

amd the Dal defense prevented further seqr
‘Lee’ Pluck handled the whistle.

___Dalhopgje line up; — Gogl, “R." Moorps
defenge, Piereey and Munro; centre, Taylop;
wings, P ’ . and Sange , te) ; a D8, : am im MA

   
   

“=

Sr

= mg tg
5 Aare . —
a arte a] ie ’ or
haar ilies flint ges Py : : = "4

  
 

— a
Ee
oe

 

8 .
» ¢ “se ‘+

: - T2s+s 9

* > >

ae,

_WORLD- CLASSICS

 

 

world’s finest literature is not accessible to

. the Students of Dalhousie. And it is even
.. likely, that Dalhousians will live and die with‘out ever hedring the names of many to-whom
. the world owes some of. the -finest things
written. On ‘the facade of the new library

Dainty Lunches Served Quickly

CONFECTIONERY. COOLING DRINKS |
ICE CREAM AFTERNOON. TEA

‘to be eighteen figures

world’s eighteen greatest men. Of these the
' five chosen to represent literature are: Dante,
‘ Goethe and Homer . for poetry, Plato for

Dinner 12-2 40c Supper 5-7 40c .

SPRING GARDEN ROAD,
AT DRESDEN ROW

WLLL hhh hhh

 

you reading the world’s best literature !

 

WTI -.LALL.4222LLL a ddddddaadadddiiidiiia
— literature of the English-speaking world, but
it is no reason why we should turn a deaf ear
to the poets and philosophers of other nations,
whose works, translated, have often retained
all the beauty of their originals. If we ecanfot all know the languages of France, Ger‘many, Spain an Italy, we can at least become

 

ee 0 eee ee a Ee Ee ee Ee em Bt ame Emer B treme 0

Phone Back, 139:

! | Mader s ‘Cafe

Munished Réams :

 

—

‘ familiar with the best literature they have
‘ | 15 Granville Street produced. In it we will find the best
i | - 7 ‘thought: that which lasts, that which will
(Foot of Blowers St.) count in the buiding up of the coming true

protherhood ‘of nations.
And it is not only to the
“.Burope that we may look for new enlightment: Persia has its Goethe in Hafiz, its J. J.
~ Rousseat. in Rumi, and a Fardausi,
gigantic ‘epic poemis almost as wonderful as
Finland’s Kalevala. And best of all, Persia
has Nizami.
wrote more beautiful verse: Read Laila and
Vajnin for a fair test. (The only English

ae Nova. Scotia
' Lobsters our Spemalty cy
% ria Bea M: d-day Dinner | ins Halifax. |

SOR OR eh ee we a OO re 8 ree Oe ee me ee i ee ame DE.

- DISPENSING

- MACLEOD, BALCOM. LTD.
Drv ggists

oo —— 2 i fe ee

 

 

 

olleeted called: Five Treasures).
| Speaking of epic poems, undoubtedly the
’ greatest, in size if not in quality, is'the Indian

 

 

   

 

   

fine DALHOUSIE GAZETTE...

It is a great pity that so..much of.. the.

 

 

glorious lilies will unfold themselves.” While

a bee, sleeping in a flower, thus dreamed,
came, alas! an elephant and.crushed it as it
lay.’’

It-is known-that Heine: imitated- Amaru.
Well he might!
~-China and Japan have also a great and

‘antique literature which is closed to the most

building of Washington University, there are -representing the.

philosophy, and Shakespeare for drama. Are »

It is all very well'to praise and enjoy the .

writers of whose .
- There never lived a poet who .

translation of this work I know of, is in, a, hest thought.

of us.’ English translations are searce and,
for the most part, poor. The French are ‘the
only people who have fully appreciated
Japanese literature. It-is to that language ~
we must resort to taste the exquisite songs of
the Kokinshu (a book of poems old and new,
collected A. D. 905), or the prose of Shikibu
and Shonagon, which, for simplicity with
strength, have only been equalled by the
(Greeks, and perhaps also by the best Spanish
authors of the thirteenth and~ fourteenth
centuries, es

These are a few of the world-classies. I
have mentioned them at the risk of passing |
for a pedant. However, I have derived so
much pleasure and profit in the reading of
the above mentioned and others, more obscure, that I feel I would be doing my fellow,
students a great service, if I could induce ~~
them to become more interested in some of
the world-classies. No doubt, lack of funds
explains the absence of so many of them from
the Dalhousie library, but even their presence
there, would not increase their popularity
much. What Dalhousie needs is a class m
which to study the universal classics in English. We are beginning to have too much m
eommon with the rest of the world to neglect
an opportunity of becoming familiar with its
P.L.H.M.

= ‘2 ay

qi—aee-scenh a

 

     

WY)
a —
4 a Mahabharata. It is seven times the length of SOLUTION TO LAST WEEK’S CROSS.
Oo S the /liad and Odyssey, and in it we can find, WORD PUZZLE oC) FIVE > ‘though it is ewmbersome picking, the phil- . 3 deinen hy a a
= ; phaCHS mn osophy of the whole world. It has, however, Horizontal Vertical .
es great historial value, for in it-are the only +. Pheer. 3 Peofedso? -'
_records of the coming of the Aryan whites in- 5. Trump 2 Leap year
to ‘India, as well as much valuable inform ® Recs 3 Chestnut
an ation on the campaigns of Iskander. I do., 10 Hilee aki.
‘not think’ that all‘of it has yet been” trans 11 Or” Speen 3 1©
ee “lated into English, but the Germans have a ek | eas re
 beeri digging into all its treasures since overa 1g P.O. 8. ® President
a '} hundred years. The Sanskrit literature 14° pogs (18 Too.
' “UNEAT P RESSING _ counts .@ number of fine epics jand dramas. j9, fyot 15 Son “
er te | P ARLORS — The Ramhyana réininds ‘one ofthe Chanson 90 Anti 92 Forrest:  :
ql * .s de Roland, and the ‘works of Kalidasa oe : " oe Pe o et sila alae
| ORIGINAL BOB LEARY, | “like those of aaa es Ment mee co. Come
Al ; M re an authority.than Goethe, declar a cil 18.2 gammaae 8d: ORES
4 ae, | English dramatist had nothing to surpass — Whee. a ar ee
; | Economize in your’ Pressing nie baying = Kaidasa’s Cakuntala, whieh | was, _written a . “98 Or is, Pie dogpile! nba
Rock tidkgt entitle you to oe Suit or ‘Even older are ‘ the. delightfal lyries of 90 Lol N." ee Sth SO OR ooo ae
Amaru. I remember a short’ one’that par- . 91'Phr. *" oan Tok at at nie rs i

  

 

'. 88-Dip Fret ge, nas
fe a 4
_D

— bd apg ll MO Late? feito.
jeulerly pleased

 

tote - yore
