A} 5 A eet Le
K: mn » a mi
_ ;

ane ys: ay

( é
,

:

She Balhousie Gazette
tae weekty Founded 1869 .

One Dollar Per Year
D. R. Webster, BH. A.
y _ Asnociate Editors

| Mie eel Grant Miss Allison MeCurdy

ror * | P. 'T. Hickey, B. A,

i Faculty Editors .

A. F. Macdonald
. A Munre
D>. LL Meany

D. O. Hebb
Misa Avis Marshal!

George Morrison, HB. A.

_ = Ming Eleanor Barnstead

- =..H, A .Davidson

F teevappendent ~- J. A. Duntop, LB. A

i e Hil Reporter - ~ H.R, Norton, BR, A,
saan as A. B. Merton, BB. A.

52 QUINPOOL ROAD
Phene Sack. 813

t woul be ore, bt ca

ce e ‘
Bae ' om
ye A
1 i Ps = ae
+P Pare ks ee ty . ¥
on ~ r + iim. a :
as 2 i
: * = ¥ i Z wif |
q i
ne ty x be i yan < "7 *
=) 7. i : r.
YF] aaa PTE
ri " f
ght Np ie cee aes ~s :
‘

be’ offset by
desiring to buy their own

ght the: graduatin “classes
ili ‘to contribute a little to help
seen sh
sssary, with thé classes concerned.

Ht will be two weeks: from

| iy. Ww.
rae ad hae a8 eu i

oking W Pa aoe oy 77 Nog oat
el —. ¥,

a 7% . 4 As ton

1 for or use  sgain when they

| Forrest Building. ie:

a : 4 ra ‘ , . = ° 7 '
7 - % 7 ’ : ' , ' é A j 7 ; Ye ag j . es ye bart ae s ; ‘
3 , 4
4 re = A von) ‘ ¢ * - **
* " - ‘arr 4 4 : 4 7 x
, ’ @ ' ; 7 ay f ‘
4 7 :
| i ’
| j . f q :
4 :
' " ”
’ .
' :
im | | ge
. : . ~ . : .

THURSDAY, MARCH 5

—

CORRESPONDENCE

1925

Halifax, N. S.
Feb. 28, 1925
Sporting Editor
Dalhousie Gazette Dear Sir,

On Wednesday February 26th, during their
regular practice hour the Law basketball team
and a team from the C. G. A. played a friendly practice match at the Dal. gym.

Shortly after the game a young man claiming to be a Dalhousian and apparently especially interested in the interfaculty basketball
league, with the object of suspending the Law
players who participated in the interfaculty
league, informed the presdent of thé M. P. B.
of the A. A. U, of C. that the Law team had i infringed an amateur rule.

The Law team infringed no rule and therefore the much desired object failed in its
inception.

We wish hiwever to thank’ this “sporting

—gentlemai—we will’ mention no names—for

the. kindly _ sentiment Which » _ Promoted” Ms

WE

sessing a clean: imoe ne are. any:
‘would: attempt to promote. spirit in this manner.
Further we would. like to inform. this Bi ve
ing? gentleman that if his inforniation, though
incorrect had lead to the suspension of all or
‘any of theLaw players his object would. yet
not have. been attained as it would. have in
no way affected, their “locus, cone in. the

Interfacalty league.
| Yours, i'ctisny
! HUE
Law School;

To’ the Baitor 1 Daou :
_ Dear er. i

Se ae | refrain
' aate in se of aj jr Ney
! upon any

DENNIS PRIZES

The attention of candidates for these. prizes
is drawn to the following additional regulations adopted by Senate to goven the awards:
1. Candidates for these prizes must be regis:

tered in at least three classes in the Unt oe }

versity.

Three type-written copies of each compo- f ; pei

sition must be sent in by the competitor,

No winner of a second prize is eligible for

a second prize in a subsequent year,

The competitor’s name must be typed on. e
the cover of the sealed. envelope ee

contains his pseudouym.

Each member of the Jury of Award shall

send to the Secretary of Senate, prior to ~

the meeting: of the Jury, a list of his cons) a ,

tributions arranged, according to his pers
sonal. judgment, in order of merit. « '

Manuscrips submitted in competition must ba!

‘in the hands of the Secretary of he Jury of ©

Award (Dr. MacMechan) not later than: awae ae

{; 1925. aS

vod as students i as Canadian:

The student bodies vied win civic authori

_in courtesy. In Ednburgh, B

ford, Paris and London they. nase: a the
ial care, givig us honorar bership |
eir clubs and unions. coe > 11

the Jadies of our party were invite¢

‘the floor of the house,” an almost a e

ft anes honour.

ers | do m0 ws to se any

AL

- dents, but | ros
iene: a careful sti of, it be f fore ser

NE Sea a poate AF visti

 
 

sere

PROHIBITION BECOMES LIVE ISSUE
SHIRREFF HALL PUTS A STICK

‘The Gazette’s representative assigned to
interview the Ambassador for Shirreff Hall
approached his task with diffidence, despite
‘the record for courtesy and hospitality tor
vhich His Excellency is famous. The fevorter passed the door of the Embassy three
times nervously, then, taking a drink and a
clove, entered. <fter a short wait the funcHonary in sable ammuneed that His Excellency
vould be pleased to sec him.

His Excellem:. ‘ne Ambassador was seated
at a plain desk, surrounded by evidence of
siniple hut Iexurious tastes, he shook hands
very cordially and  condescendingly, and
tendered a cigar. This’ put your reporter at
ease, and he had an opportunity to inspect the
Earl a little minuts'y. The ninth holder of a
distinguished title, His Excellency bears the
marks of aristocracy and emnence. Tah and
powerfully built, with a pleasant face, somewhat swarthy of covmexicn and with distinctly wavy hair, Lord Pitt gives an impres
sion of tremendous power and reserve.

“1 have been told,” said t’e Earl smilingly,
“that some talkative peome are very foolishly putting an international complexion upon
a recent happenning—the object of your
interview, | believe, is to obtain some procourse that | can speak only qua Ambassador,
and under color of no other right; and my
scope is thus limited”’.

The reporter leaned forward earnestly, “It
can hardly be called foolish, your Excellency”,
he said, “when one week we find unmistakable signs of arming at Pine Hill, and then
within a week yourcountry indulges in unprecedented expenditure in obtaining some cartoads of modern canes from the Queen City,
indications pointing to strained international
relations, amounting to preparations for war”.
The Earl burst into hearty laugh, showing his
pearly teeth, “You will pardon me,” he
gasped, “but when | explain, you too will
laugh. As you know, I had been a member
of Parliament before accepting this appoint:
ment, and, whether deservedly or not, receive
great support from the electorate of Shirreff
Hall, a recognition which in some measure
they still accord me.” (Here His Lordship
was over-modest, for it is common knowledge
that ht is without equal in the veneration
to love in which he is held by the realm which

WIC bbl bdbdbhhbhhdide

The TARRY IN

 

‘Dainty Lunches Served Quickly

CONFECTIONERY COOLING DRINKS
ICE CREAM AFTERNOON TEA

Supper 5-7 40c

Dinner 12-2 40c

SPRING GARDEN ROAD, |
AT DRESDEN ROW

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
Oe

he repfesents — mannerism, whitticism and
wise-cracks or sayings of his are still carefully
treasured) “Two weeks ago | commenced to
carry a cane to the Law Library on dark and
Jippery nights; this was noised abroad, and :
number of my most faithful admirers took my
act to be the setting of a fashion—in other
words. | have unwittingly started a style.
There is no political significance of any sort
‘n the actio . Relations between the Hill and
Pine Hill have notheen severed. It is merely
1 coincidence—an illusration of mob instinct.
Why pick on the same stvle, you ask, a d why
adopt canes? It istrue that the canes, are
clumsy and the wearers awkward, but what
would you? Did you ever See a mob do a
sensible thing? It is pschycology, my young
friend—in making the world laugh they amuse
themselves. Where ignora ce Is bliss ’tis
folly to plug for exams, The fact that the
young lady who conducted — the parade at
Studley is my devoted military attache is of
no significance—it was not an official act.
However, my young friend, | must deplore one
result of the moveme t; in three instances,
followers, in the height of patriotic fervor and
self-abnegation, have caréfully placed their
canes in bed, doused the glim, and propped
themselves in the corner for the night.”

“My Queen (I mean the Queen of Shirreff
Hall) asks me to assure the Press that there is
complete understanding between the two
countries; that they are closer in sentiment
than they have been for years. The king ?—
there is no king among my Amazonian people,
although L-n and W-lly have both made handsome offers and numerous visits in the hope of
attaining this dignity. There was no rupture of
relations over the Hockey situation—I should
like however, to correct a false impression
created in your paper. Mr. Magonet has been
and is the coach of the Hall Hockey team, as
well as being guide, philosopher and friend to
the individual girls. He is very assiduous and
resents the false assumption of his office by
others. He has issued a Quo Warranto directing the usurpers of his office to show by
what right or title ihey claim that dignity.
Write that one on your cuff. | thank you.”

As the reporter bowed himself out, the Earl
was busy cracking nuts against his head with
a hammer. Such are great men, simple and

lovable!

 

—s= DISPENSING

MACLEOD, BALCOM LTD.
Druggists

 

 

Lx]
fb x
s S
= FIVE >

PLACES B
oe ae

SAFETY

EEE :

|____ CHEMISTS

 

 

 

ARTS WIN FROM COMMERCE

 

In the third interfaculty game which was
played at noon on Saturday, the speedy Arts
aggregation defeated the Commerce team; Redmond scoring the one and only goal in the
latter half of the second period.

For Arts F. MacLean, Redmond, Godsoe and
G. J. MacLean starred, while Doyle, Munro,
Mosher and Spencer were the pick of the Commerce team.

In the final period F. MacLean gave a fine
exhibition of stick-handling. On ome Occasion, with only Mosher to beat his shot had the
misfortune to strike the post of the goal.

Wilfred Creighton and Bill Cave refereed.

The line up:—

Arts:—Goal, G. J. MacLean; defence, Godsoe, Macdonald, and White; centre, Redmond; wing, F. MacLean, E. Riss and Mac
Lennan.

Commerce: — Goal, Mosher; defence,
Spencer and Chipman; centre, ee

wings, Munro, Doyle and Miller.

PRPs As si, ‘4 4 if,

UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA

Hudson’s Bey Company Research

The above fellowship, of the annual
value of $1,500.00, tenable at the University
of Manitoba, in any branch of pure or applied science, open to graduates of any: Canadian University, will be filled for 1925 about
May Ist. Applications should be in the
hands of the Registrar of Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Manitoba, by April Ist.
Further particulars on application. Address

THE REGISTRAR,

University of Manitoba,
Winnipeg, Manitoba,

++thitsshy

     
   

  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

i

The Junior-Senior Dance

 

“With mingled feelings of joy and sorrow we
bid farewell to the Seniors of 1925” Such was
one of the befitting phrases spoken by the president of the Junior class, Gerry Godsoe. op
Monday evening at the dance given in honor of
the graduating class. . The guests at this revelry, the seniors, not only had a delightful tim
but the two hundred others also noted the tones
as a decided success and one which, well it was
indeed worth going to. | cs

Joe Mills and his six piece orchestra were in
attendance and the. music supplied was very
favorably commented upon they certainly stood
py the Juniors for they added to the enthusiasm
necessary to “put it over.” The rainbow decorations were very attractive and were a novelty such that had not previously been indulged
in by any class. Not only did the Juniors thus
prove their abiltiy to “think up something new”
but showed the dancers what a very “pretty
dance hall should look like. In speaking with
the radiating streamers four rainbows were
artistically arranged on the walls. :

Another novelty and the one which will probably be kept in memory (books) the longest

was the little banners. Bearing the words Junlor-Senior 1925, small pennants of vellow, red
and green, with a black or white staffs were
flourished about the room. {nthe first part of
the evening they were attached to a colored
background of letters showing off to full advantage the words Junior, Senior. Junior Prom
Later they were disattached and kept as souvenirs of that wonderful dance. The red curtain
also claimed the privelege of welcoming the $2nlors with its large gold letters “ luniors Senior.”
fhe programs were very attractive being in
three sectioned booklet form. On the outer
“LD” and a gold
Opening it further there was a page ot
dedicated to the title and vear

cover there was a small dainty
ribbon, ,
of this dance.
And inside the programme and engagements for
the dance. After the fifth dance Gerry Godsoe, welcomed the seniors and Ted Chipman as
president of the Senior class made an excellent
reply ‘stating’ the appreciation of his class for
their entertainment and bid a short adieu on
their behalf. He also thanked the Juniors for
the splendid spirit with which they had ntingled
with the seniors. The chaperones at ths most
enoyable dance were Mrs. Macneill Mrs Pearson
and Miss Nichols.

 

BIRKS
for Class Jewelery

Gifts

of

Gold

and

Silver
The Latest Novelties From
The Worlds Best Markets

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
HALIFAX

 

 

~ |
\

 

ae eee
_---- ---—-- > oor -- > — ‘

Sees Se eee Spa Mone casera nanan RR

 

q.0
A ()

of

King
CIGARETTES

 
   
    
    

15‘ per pkt.
29 for 3D*

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

Manufectured by
/mpertel Tobacco Co of Canada, limited

—_—_
oS a) ae) ee) eee ee) eee) ee) cme) eee), ee +

Scotts Men’s Wear

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Le

t

Phinneys Limited
Equip

YOUR HOCKEY TEAM

Sweaters and Stockings in “Dal” colors
should be ordered now. to ensure their heing here when the season opens.

A full range of Hockey Equipment is on display in Sporting Goods Dept

Specials Terms To All Clubs

Come in and get our prices.

PHINNEYS LIMITED

Headquarters for Dal. Boys

A splendid stock of furnishings of all
kinds, Winter Overcoats. Hats and

Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suiteases and Bags.

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

DON'T FORGET WE’RE ON THE
CORNER

454 BARRINGTON ST HALIFAX, N 8.

 

moe

50 ——— spe ee oe
hh, Oe Ob ee fF eee mee OF eee 6
me OF ee 68 ee OF ee
1—— 9e
 

f

~
Ee ee NN ee aes >>

~

 

 

 

  

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

   
 

 

 

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text
Books.

Commercial and Society Stationery.

T. C. Allen & Co.

124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

nen cb eects sang, <a A AL
'

CLIM

PHOTOGRAPHER
501 BARRINGTON ST.
Phone S..1395

Now is the time to have

your Group Photographs made
Special Rates to Students
|

ccctcttisitesatiiltlit, Ol ill te

Lo eatiiaianennratieiicesiicieateniimnciansenihalis

JENSEN & MILLS CO., LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD119 YOUNG ST:

    
 

THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES

PRICES R1GH T—QUALITY
RIGHT—SERVICE RIGHT

.
a cucGidaaedEn dbs baesiucusud ueehESveReseTdeeess Feotsmnensnnenesesernirnr™™

Drygoods, Millinery, Ready-toWear and Ladies Tailoring

  
     
   
   

sictasienteninaneaieiennsantiianecanasaaaneanantas
CLOTHES SEEN AT
THE COLLEGES |

SUITS, OVERCOATS AND
FURNISHINGS |

To Please The College Man.

_W. F. PAGE

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

 

 

” Pine Hill. Post

 

Despite the attempts of our eminent physicians, Perry Knox and Ira Sutherland, to find
an effective serum with which to control the
“Club” bacillus, Pine Hill has not as yet been
successfully inoculated against it. An outbreak even more virulent than usual took place ©
recently, when the new ‘Cane Club’ came into
being.

One astonishing symptom of this “Club”
disease is the rapidity with which it spreads
through the Residence. Within a few hiurs
after Doug Pyke, Brodie Taylor, and Frank
Archibald showed the first symptoms of the
plague, it had spread to such an extent that
there were seventy-five enthusiastic members
who had pledged to procure and carry canes.

When the Club first appeared in public,
several of the boys, especially Higgins and Gilmore, who had never before carried such
equipment, were so self-cinscious that they
found it quite difficult to restrain their enthusiasm while in church. Hiwever, no serious mishap occurred.

It is repirted that the officers of this Club are
about to take legal proceedings against a
similar organization in Shirreff Hall because
they have in that place obviously copied and
made use of an idea which originated in Pine
Hill.

The recent journey to Wolfville of Bob Scitt
and his team of Pine Hill ‘Bearcats’ was in
many respects remarkable. Among the most
notable events of the trip were, (1) the success
of Hughie Ross in engaging a Co-ed in conversation and (2) the pajama parade after
midnight. Charlie MacLennan who is perhaps
in more constant communication with Acadia
than anyone else in the Residence, tells us he
was ‘an awfully nice boy’.

Bill Richardson made a trip to Shirreff Hall
the other night and returned with a ‘perfectly
heavenly’ box of candy. If it is possible for
Shirreff Hall to produce such confectionary
then we hope that many more of the boys will
strive to follow in Bill’s footsteps.

The Delta Gamma invitations have been
issued. They come as the gentle rain from
heaven and are twice blessed. In this respect
they somewhat similar to the ‘quality of mercy’.
Tere is fullness of joy depicted on the faces
of some of the elect.’ As far as we know Cliff
Grant is the only boy who has been honoured
by receiving two requests to attend.

Recently Jigger Grant had a notice posted
calling for a big “Pep” meeting but it appears
that Jigger was merely looking for some volrnteers to ‘root’ for the Acadia girls when they
play basketball here on Saturday night.

The Pine Hill cat wants to know:—Why
Seymour Gordon stopped parting his hair in
the middle? “Tabby” Bethune who never had
a ‘part’ in his hair says that a change like
this signifies a change of ‘heart’, This seems
to be a pausible explanatiin. The new girl must

like Seymour better with his hair parted on

the side.

 

“There is nothing so difficult as the art of
making advice agreeable.”

MEDICAL NOTES

We do not propose to give a detailed account of the Medical Society Banquet which
was held at the Halifax Hotel last Friday
evening. We feel it was very valuable in that
it brought together the students and their
senior..friends inthe. medical profession in a .
very delightful way. The addresses by the
different doctors wha spoke were excellent
and not only instructive but inspiring as well.
The medical student who, during his six or
seven years of college life, is continually dealing with cold facts—bones and joints, irons
and atoms, “bugs” and drugs—is very apt to
lose much of that idealism, with which to a
greater or lesser extent he was inspired when
he entered upon the study of Medicine (We
use the masculine pronoun but perhaps these
remarks apply just as much, if not more, in
the case of the gentler sex) To hear the men
who have brought honor to their profession
(and ours) speak to us feelingly and earnestly
of the ethics and ideals which must inspire
the man or woman entering upon the practce
of medicine. if he or she is to prove worthy of
that calling, was refreshing and, one feels,
beneficial to all of us. .

Altogether the function was good for the
what We are and what we are trying to do. We
found pleasure in having such honored guests
and they—well, they say they enjoyed themSelves.

Thanks is due Messrs. Cameron and MacDonald (“Bill”) who were were the committee in charge of this successful function.

 

Don’t forget the Medical Society meeting tomorrow night. It promises to be just as ingteresting as the others have been.

Well, we’ve made a further exploration of
that Medical Library. Its not so terribly bad
as we said it was. Next issue we hone to tell
you what helpful material you may find there
and what the University has spent in the
purchase of books for our library during the
past year. | W.S. G.

 

Tommy—“Do you like cigars”
Bill—*Yes! but—
Tommy—‘No! No! I mean whole cigars.

   

U-NEAT PRESSING
PARLORS

ORIGINAL BOB LEARY,
Manager

Economize in your Pressing by buying a
Strip of Four Tickets for $2.00.

Each ticket entitles you to have a Suit or

Overcoat Sponged and Pressed.
Our Regular Rate is 75¢ a Suit
WE ALSO DO DYEING, DRY-CLEANING,
REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.

23 Blowers St. Phone S. 967 ' )

 

 

 

 

 
  

— a
——
— a we

SHIRREFF HALL

 

Class 25 is having trouble trying to think of
a Suitable farewell gift to the University. Stan.
Cook wants a mindhreak from Morris St. to
the Science Building. We should recommend
one from the Murray Homestead to the
Shirreff Hall woods. Marion Irving however
would like to see the seats in’ room 29 of
the Forrest Building upholstered. for she has
already worn out her fur coat from using it
as a cushion and now has to carry pillows
back and forth whenever she has a s. hour
lecture.

The Shirreff Hall canes have been in full
swing for a week. The rush to get them was
what we would like to call “hectie”, but as
that word means morbidly flushed it would
be better to apply it to the people themselves.
During the big jam Jean Tattrie forgot
whether she had ordered red or black, so she
grabbed the last one of each and went off
to her own room. The matter was soon decided however by Elsie Fraser who followed
in hot haste, seized the fiery brand. declared
it to be hers, ordered and paid for, and then
retreated in eloquent silence.

It was amusing to watch this fashion spread,
to hear the “static” on the stallways and see
high shoulders develope. Many of a philosophical turn of mind mere heard remarking to
remark: Truth is indeed stronger than fiction.
It will surprise not in the least if on Sunday
next the boys appear with “beau bouncers” and
monocles.

One is always learning something about relative values. This we consider quite a discovery along psychological lines.

Notice, (Seen on Allison McCurdy’s door)
Sleeping.

Do not waken me unless for a telegram or
Phone Call.

Congratulations are due to Annie, Pearl and
Fitz on their debating success. May you do
the same at it M. B. fel

In case you don’t know it we would like to
advertise the fact that the extra mural class in
Physics one hears so much of is held in the
guest room of S. H. Here inspiring leaders
of that noble Science such as Dr K---h B----r
and Professor Uy—an hold forth before every
quinz in Physics.

Many anxious friends on the third floor are
wondering what Amelia McCurdy intends to do
with the sliced raw potatoes she has, had in
soak in the kitchenette over a week. For six
days anticipation has been on tiptoe expecting
any minute to smell the delicious odour of
French fried potatoes but day has succeeded
day and still the “spuds” remain in their
reality bed.

Her would be guests feel sure that if she

puts off frying them. three more days, their
flavour will not be so delicious.
It is difficult to realize that the Delta Gamma dance is over and restrain an impulse to
study sigorously whenever Anna Grant and
Jean Messenger appear in the hallways, forgetting that they no longer want us to frill two
or three miles of crepe paper streamers.

|

“There is a wonderful power in honest work to
ae latent energies and reveal a man to

‘
THE
ee

is
DALHOUSIE: GAZE

ee
ee ee

   

' Remembered Days }
Oh the days that fill our lifetime,
Each with different moods upon it
Are like people we have once known,
Like our fellowmen in this world.

For a stormy day in winter
ls a man with whom we quarrelled;
And the driving clouds above us
Are his dark eyes bent upon us,—
The dull sense of cold discomfort
ls the memory of his hatred,
And the roaring of the storm-wind
ls his voice upraised in anger.

A warm happy day of summer

Is the mother of our childhood:
Like the comfort of her presence
In the pains and joys of childhood.
And the silent heat of noonday

Is her loving smile upon us,

And the odour of the flowers

ls the fragrance of her nearness.

All the glorious days of autumn
Filled with zest and joy of living,
Are the happy-hearted comrades,
Men we knew and loved and trusted
In the keyday of our youth.

In the whistling of the west wind
Sound the clear and careless voices,
All the clamor of the campus—

In the fresh and buoyant wind.

But the intangible aroma

Of a day in early sqringtime

Is the girl who held our first love:
And the pulsing thrill of springtide

Is our first exultant passion |
The clear bright blue skies above us
Are her kind eyes smiling on us,

And the song-birds are her sweet voice,
And the balmy southern breezes

Are her kisses soft and tender.

—_—__—

1O THE REMNANTS

 

Ye remnants, who think it’s a shame
That Old Pine Hill and Shirreff Hall
Have garnered in the sheaves of fame
\nd you’re not talked about at all,

Pray listen to this sound advice:
“Write up some notes for the Gazette.
Since fame is never without price,

By work alone renown you'll get.”’

om! Ami’’

    

 
  
 

LLLMMidhddslidddllddddddddiiicauicacddcddiaa

A. & W MACKINLAY LTD;

Stationers

A complete line of Manuscripts {
Books in various bindings and {
\Loose Leaf Note Books kept in
Nstock. | \
N Depot for Swan and Perker Duofold

Fountain Pens

Eversharp & Duro-Point Pencils

SMALALLLALLALAAAA AA MMhh

  
 
    
 

LLihhitbikdiidititlitiktidltiktitede

   
     
        
   

\ 137 GRANVILLE STREET
' ILL LLL LL

 

 

)
GLEE CLUB )
munvainapaaiceas 4 |

To glee or not to glee? This question
was answered by the splendid meeting held |
in the Dalhousie gymnasium monday evening, February 11th. The fine turn-out of
Students from all faculties was evidence that
the Glee Club of Dalhousie was, and is, a
live and popular organization.

(he. business meeting which was presided
over by Mr. Leonard Fraser, was short and
successful. Mr. C, W. Seagewick’s resigna:
tion from the office of Secretary-treasurer was
read and accepted and Mr. Blanchard Thomson was elected to this office. Mr. Lochart
Travis was elected Convenor of the Executive
Committee.

_ The program was very much appreciated
judging by the hearty applause. It consisted of a ballet dance by the Misses E, MacNeill and
H. Wilson, a step-dance by Kelly’MacLean and
two vocal solos by Messrs. C. MacLennan and
G. Graham,

Dancing followed the program and the proes the supper, which was served Rb

e third dance, were given
Student Relief fund. , en

No one was heard singing “Show me the
_ to go a. _ the question of the

ing seemed to be: “ ‘|
caeina Wa told} When will the next

 

—A. McC.

 

EXCITING BADMINTON TOURNEY

 

On the evening of February 21st, armed
with light weapons, but with a purpsoeful look
: their eyes, the “boys” met the “Profs.” on

e appointed field of batttle, na ,
mintion courts. ee ee

The “Profs.” started off much as th

: as they migh
have attacked a pile of quizzes, yan the
shuttlecocks became “plucked” with  tneir
driving, but towards the end, thev slowed down
no diubt out of sympathy. — Realizing that
their oppirtunity had arrived, the “hoys” hegan ~ work, as they. always do when the

nals” are approaching, and the re

A He first for every one. gc cy:
Although the “boys” were sli

O e ghtly superio

to the Profs.” in their play, thay scorns

lack of science in eating the splendid refresh
ments, which were provided by the fadies who

had been team-mates of the “Profs.” At any

rate, it was reported the next da
y, that, due
to an over-supply of those wonderful “eats”
there were “two down,” namely Messrs, Sperry
A return match is eagerly look
and Dobson.
ed for.

Bob Johnson’s
Two Barber Shops

FIRST CLASS SERVICE

 

MAJESTIC THEATRE BUILDING AND
COR. GEORGE AND BARRINGTON STS.

ee ee

Dun’t Neglect Your Appearance |

 
 

|

—_
—_

 

eee eee E—E—e—e——eooEEaEaSEoEoaooamaaoaoaoaoaoaaoaoaoaoaoaoaoaoaooooommmm™™™

MOCK PARLIAMENT

The second session of the Mock Parliament
was held in the Munroe room on the evening
of Feb. 24th.

After prayers by the Rev. Chaplain, several
important questions. were asked concerning the
business of the country. Mr. Morrison, Liberal
member for Sydney, inquired of the Hon.
Minister of Finance, L. W. Fraser, if the finances had begun to Blanch(y) it? The Hon.
Minister promised a reply at the next meeting.
Hon.  r. Gushue asked the Postmaster General, R. J. Byrne, why registered mail failed to
be delivered since he assumed office? Mr.
Byrne replied that he was unaware of the
trouble in his department but he would investigate.

Hon. Don MaclInnes, Minister of Justice,
moved the second reading of a bill to amend
section 263 of the Criminal Code providing for
the abolition of capital punishment and substitutng life imprisonment. Mr. MacInnes stated
that this Parliament was the first to introduce
such legislation. The speaker said that the
feeling of “eye for an eye, a tooth fer a tuoth
and a life for a life,” was fast dying ou! and
that the people were not so anxious to see a
murderer hung now as formerly. He deciared
that the juries were reluctant to convict a jerson charged with murder, no matter how strongly the case was against him. The bill. was seconded by Hon. L. F. Murphy.

R. L. Snodgrass, Liberal member for Fredericton, opposed the bill and declared the Minister must be either a professor of philosophy
or ethics to bring in such a bill. He said that
the penalty was to keep the peace and to sulstitute life imprisonment for capital punishment
was getting away from this principle.

P. J. Lewis of the Labor Party dealt at considerable length with the bill and declared such
legislation was the idea of an extremist. “To
enact such legislation would be to eradicate one
of the fundamental principles of English law,”
declared the member from Newfoundland. He
considered human life was priceless ani a
crime calling for atonement and with the
death penalty to face no sane person would
deliberately commit murder.

J. F. McManus also spoke against tho bill.
On division the bill was carried by a vote of
17—14. ,

The next bill was entitled, “An Act to Levy
a Tax on Bachelors.” Miss G. Wambolt, Minister of Domestic Relations, moved the second
reading of this bill and advocated a graduated
tax on single men according’ to their age. R. J.
Byrne, the Dartmouth member, who crossed
the floor to the Government benches, seconded the bill, In a lengthy speech, which he
declared was a preamble, the ex-Liberal gave
his reasons for crossing the floor. After the
use of much verbosity in this connection the
member deigned to second the bill, but stated
no reason for so doing. His speech did not
inspress the House very favorably.

Miss G. Mills, Labor member for #!alifax,
stiongly opposed the bill declaring that it was
~ not in the interests of the country to force
young men into marriage, and like the Minister of Justice (Don McInnes) believed in
it) Pree Love. | |

_ W. BE. Mosley, Liberal member for Dart ynouth, also opposed the bil!. “The government promised reduction in taxation and now
eX | 71 |

THE DALHOUSI

 

they propose an entirely new tax,” declares
the member.

H. B. Dickey, leader of the Liberals,
claimed that the bill was tht most absurd piece
of legislation ever introduced. Premier Pearson closed the debate and dea!t with the opposition mmbers’ remarks.

On division. the Government was. defeated.

byea majority of two, but on motion of Messrs.
(sushue and Wilson the Government was allowed to remain in office. The Liberals refrained from voting on the motion.

Hon. A. J. Campbell, Minister of Pubiic
Works, moved the.reading of a bill entitled,
“An Act to initiate reforms in Dalhousie which
would be good for both body and soul.” Mr.
Campbell’s bill proposes that beds be substituted for the benches now used in the class
rooms; no doors to be locked after the commencement of class; the nine o'clock classes
to be abolished and several other reforms. In
moving the reading of this bill, the Minister
in a concise and clear cut manner argued why
it should be adopted by the House. R. Kiser
seconded the reading and on motion of Mr.
Wilson, Labor, the debate was adjourned for a
week.

 

Two Sides to a Story

Ever since the publication, last autumn, of the
fable of the farmyard, there has been a feeling
in the air that the non-residents of Dalhousie
were being abused. From time to time an article would appear, which portrayed those in
Pine Hill and Shirreff Hall as trying to set
themselves up as the whole university, and their
columns in the Gazette were especially criticized. The impressicn created was that the town
students were considered a negligible quantity,
were being crowded out, and given no chance to
contribute to the college life.

These students have been basking in the 2°
mosphere of self-pity, which is very enjoyable,
but evidently not at all stimulating, and whic:
has now been carried to the point where it is hu
longer justifiable. Surely it is up to the town
people ‘themselves to renedy matters, not to
those in residence, on whom by inference, ‘i.e

blame has been thrown. These latter are doing ,

no more than what is expected of residences, but
it seems more because the rest are doing nothing

Referring again to the Gazette, they may
vlead: “It is so hard to get organized; “ho
would write anything?” In reply, I should
say: “You were organized last year sufficientiy to win the Glee Club shield; and you found
i leader!”

It is no wonder that that Toronto student
used the expression he did! To think that
seventy-five per cent. of thé college body
would have so little “get-up-and-go” to them,
as to have no recognized representation in the
college paper—that they would deem themselves such negligible quantities as to allow the
residences only to depict Dalhousie life to a
Stranger! 5 ates
A Student in Residence.

 

Bl’Ky—What will we do for wood this winter?

GAZETTE

_and Ice Cream are very : popular
eye Te up the paino and geta few |f DN ea ee a
Cc or a" ; ae L ' be ers Ts, ; es _

  

 

 

From Six to Sixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire for greater
athletic accomplishment are the boys who

_EQUIPMENT

CAs

 

Com. to

CRAGG BROS. CO. iT:

BARRINGTON ST.

FOR ANYTHING YOU NEED IN
EVERY UINE OF SPORT

 

HIGH CLASS BARBER

Up to date Shop, with four chairs,
and first class barbers in attendance.

Special Bobbing Parlor for Ladies

A. Publicover
23 Spring Garden Road

—=—=—

    
    
   

Take a tip from the cognoscenti and give
her Moirs Chocolates. It is the open
sesame to every girl’s affections—especially
the new Bridge Box that makes a dlightful
“fifth partner,”

MOIRS CHOCOLATES
Famous for Their Goodness

 

The Green
Lantern

 

™~ |
|
|

is a restaurant where pure foods ara

4

served at moderate prices. Light lunches Bs) . 4g

 

 

 

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL

 

Law and Medicine are now on equal terms
for leadership of the Interfaculty Basketball
League as a result of last Saturday’s games.
Law only barely managed to come out on the
long end of an 11—12 score with Arts, in the
first defeat the latter have sustained _ this
year. The game was fast in spots, the defence
work of Moore for Law and Mcintosh for Arts
featuring. The lawyers were without the
services of “Skipper” Morrison, who had
suffered injury in a previous contest.

Law—Gushue, Snodgras, W. Richardson,
Moore, McInnes, Coughlan.

Arts—Ross, A. Richardson, Frame, Sperry,
E. Ross.

Following this Engineers and Pine Hill engaged in a hectic combat, which the spectators
enjoyed to the full. The Forbes-Proffit combination seemed too much for the the Engineers
defence to fathom the last five minutes, when
the mathematical ability of the scorer was
axed.

Theolog y—Proffit, Forbes, McLeod, Meikle,
McLean.

Engineers—McLeod, Piers, Doull, Horne,
Lowe.

Theologs—30 Engineers—16.

Medicine has added another star to its
galaxy of basketeers in Murray Bearsley, who
combined with Hewat in a number of pretty
plays on the forward line to beat Dentistry
17—10. The Dents again relied on rugby
tactics to keep the score down, but found the
fast combination of the Meds too much for
them. Johnson and McQuarrie were the pick
of the losers.

Dentistry—Johnson, Murphy, Tupper, McQuarrie, Dobson. . a

Medicine—Hewat, Bearsley, Douft* Jones,
Baird, Grant, Oakes, Sullivan.
—J.G

 

BASKETBALL

 

\

The Dalhousie Intermediates Basket Ball
team defeated the Y. M. C. A. intermediates
in their regular league game at the Dal. gym.

on Saturday night to the tune of 38—26.

As the score would indicate the game was
very even and closely contested throughout and
the final result was uncertain until the final
whistle blew. :

Brown and Langstroth starred for Dal and
Hermann turned in the best game for the “Y”
Ronald stech acted as referee. |
. Line-up and scores:—
Dal:—Brown (C) 14: Langstroth (F) 10:
clellan (F) 4: Guards—McQuarrie and
iller. Spares—Doyle, Hewat and Douglass

 
   
 
  
  

Y. M. C. ‘A—Forwards—Hermann 14:
cas, 2; Fordh : am, 4: Guards, lov and

  

 

es, Mitchell (1); Smith. (2) ;

 
  

BASKET BALL

_—_—_——ae —-—

The Dalhousie Senior Basketball team went

down to defeat in the Dal. gym. on Saturday
night, Feb, 28th in their regular league fixture with the Y. M. C. A. who emerged victorious on the long end of a 38—23 score.
_ No score was made by either side in the
first minute of play, both sides playing long
shots. The “Y” then started some fast combination and scored twice in quick succession,
Winchcombe on a pass from Piers and Piers
on a long shot from centre. Mc Donald of
Dal. then scored from under the basket and
Piers slipped two in in succession, Harrison
scored twice in this period. Toward the end
of this period the play got somewhat rough
both sides using thin weight to advantage. —

In the second period “Y” started off strong
Piers scoring after 45 seconds of play. The
game again became somewhat rough. Harrison
scored twice from under the net and the “Y”
put two fouls in. Doc. Smith scored after a
pretty piece of combination, Piers then scored
for the “Y” and for the balance of the period
the “Y” outplayed Dal and scored several
more baskets.

Harrison and Piers were the two outstanding
scorers of the game getting 14 points each.
The “Y” had it over Dal. in combination
largely due to the fact that two of the regular
Dal. forwards, McLean and Mader being absent.
R. McCoy and R. Schwartz handled the
whistles and kept the game well in hand.

Players and points scored~—Y. M. C. A.—
Piers, (F) 14, Grisdale (F) 7, Winchombe
(F) 6, Hermann, (G), Hamilton (G), Thomas
(spare) 6, Davison (spare) 3, Moore 2.

Dal—Harrison (F) 14, McDonald (F) 6,
D. Smith (C) 2, McOdrum (G) 1, A. Smith
(G), Spares—Miller, Douglas.

 

BASKETBALL

 

The Dalhousie Intermediate basketball
team showed their superiority over their opponents in a league fixture Saturday night at
the Y. M. C, A. Gym. when they rolled up a
score of 49 points to their a 21. Both
sides were slightly off in their shooting, Dal.
had the edge on their opponents and handled
thq ball in wonderful style and their fast
shooting was a feature of this exceptionally
clean game only two fouls being handed out by
Referee Piers. )

Harrison and McLellan were the outstanding
stars on the floor and their brilliant cimbination plays were a feature of the game.
Miller and Tompkins played the best game for
the bankers. ‘8

The players and their individual points. .

Dalhousie—McLellan, forward (19%; Harrison, forward, (14); Brown, centre, (14); McQuarrie, guard, .2); Miller, guard; Morton,
forward. |

Bankers—Miller, forward, (11); T

 

’
me

kins, forward, (8); Baily, centre;
guard snd forward (2); Shannon, guard anc

ae 4,

a
; :

acted as Goat | -4->.;

: vibe

DALHOUSIE VS. ACADIA

 

The second of the intercollegiate matches in
which Dalhousie takes part, was played in the
Studley Gymnasium between Acadia and [Dalhousie on Saturday, Feb. 28, at noon. The
game started off rather slowly, both  teains
feeling slightly nervous. The first period was
quiet and very little fast playing was done, the
score being 6—2 in favour of Acadia.

_ During the next period considerable more
interest was taken in the game and the rooters
of both teams were kept busy. The combination was better by this time and all the
players were hard worked. The two teams
were evenly matched and the ba'l went rapidly
from One cnd of the fleor to ihe other. The
Acadia girls had a slight edge on the lal team
but very slight as the final score 13—10
testifies. Mabel Border was th: star of the
game. Miss Ward of tse Halifax Ladies
College refereed.

The Acadia girls who came in on Friday
night were the guests of the Dal team at
Shirreff Hall. On Saturday after the game
both teams had lunch together. The retutn
match is to be played at Wolfville on March 21
and a number of rooters are expecting to accompany the team.

 

INTERFACULTY HOCKEY
Medicine 1: Dentistry 0.

 

In the second game of the Interfaculty
series at the Studley rink on Saturday, Feb,
21st, Medicine won from Dentistry by the
narrow margin of one point. As the score
would indicate the game was very even and
despite the poor condition of the ice was replete with brillian individual plays and featured by heavy checking by both teams. |

The game see-sawed back and forth at the
start neither side being able to score unti Iten
minutes after the face off, Beardsley of Medicine made a nice run, stickhandled through
Dentistry’s defence and scored the only tally
of the game. The Dentals made a strong
effort to even the score n this period and
Stinewall Mortin was called on to stop several
hot ones which he cooly turned aside. e

In the second period both teams bei~
freshed by five minutes rest the game
off fast but the ice kept getting pro
slower and the .game degenerar
checking contest at the last with

about evenly divided. Kr~

Ernie Doull, the Med. defer
nable and Dentistry wa
although Godsoe and Tay'
Beardsley and McLear
for Medicine while Tay
for Dentistry. Dunlor _ igi 22%
held the game well @% jy prothers,nor

» ht = ¥
a ee. Me 2: +
a i fe +s fe air i " %
= - ee pee DPW Em, : |. —
| ae a2 a 4 ] « A 3 ta ie 2,
a ie het yp WN Oe
WES ee ek ae a .
Meg < wast ; +4 a 4 ay i
: ee 7 5 a es
, ~ *
Mcl/ | ee
’ . ™
5

 
  
 
 

  

   
   
 

 

 

    

    
   
 

 
  
  

  
    

 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

  
   

Md di dJddddd ddd LsssssiiiiiiiKiliilii LLL LLf

       
 
 
 

     

 

 

  

    
 
   
 
       
     

MMi hhhhsishibiiiddhdth6is;is‘iddiidiiisdhhihiisidhdis;shjidiiidtiis¢¢hiiititit¢hitd

| \ NEW COMFORT \

| Phone Sack. 139i Pur.ished Rooms \ FOR THE EYES §

i NN nN

At The Cafe \ \

’ corm i ees \

, | i f Waiter :—'‘ Tea or eoffee?’’ \ A pair of our Soft Lite Glasses. They are \

a er S a e Student :—‘*‘How many guesses do I get?’’ \ most restful for eyes that tlre easily. \

———— N N

. N N

| 15 Granville Street Student :—‘‘Yes, I’ve always considered Vices ik ail Wes ili \

| her a perfect beauty, and a nice girl to boot.’’ \ N

y Ny

(Foot of Blowers St.) Coed :—‘‘Oh! Ed! You ought to be ashamed N

: ot penne” \ H. W. CAMERON \

| Halifax - Nova Scotia \ sea Sani ae ah \

Lobsters our Specialty Prof. Wilson—(in History ,wanting to find ‘ Fa ew Street \

Brac Mid-day Dinner jv, Halif aout the districts where furs were obtained by \ ee cent foe a. \

f of Seeay eee So Seemann the Indians, for the Hudson Bay Co.) ‘‘Now & N
F

  

Mr. Hebb, where did the Indians get their
furs from?”’

 

FS

    

   

 

 

    
 

   

Our Mother’s Service Will Attend to All
Your Mending — Darn Socks, _ Sew on
“Be calm in arguing, for fierceness makes Buttons, Turn Worn Cuffs on Shirts, Ete,

Error a fault, and truth discourtesy” at no Extra Charge.

"WLLL ddd Mr. Hebb— ‘From the anim als, sir.’’ D ALHOU SIE STUDENTS
\ N a ee re gt Te ee eer ee Do you know that we have inaugurated a
S ’ | N On Requesting Her Company to the Movies! service whereby YOU can have your
. ova cotia ursery N mending done regularly—as well as your

S : N laundering?

N “My dear, you should think of the future. ffl This is particular benefit to students away
, N “I can’t, its my girl’s birthday, and | have to from home who are used to _ having

1088 to 1090 Barrington St. N think of the present.” MOTHER look after their mending.

    
   
  

 

 

Three Phones

 

SLLELAAA AAA Ahh Ahh

   
  

  
   
 

 

MMMM AAA MMA AMMA hihihihtti

Cut Flowers, Bouquets \ ‘st head Ted Chipman got called down the U N G ARS .
and all F loral Work gy = gl the trouble ?’’ see co Dyeing

‘‘He kissed his girl on the forehead. ”’

 

WILLA ddiisdsdddbddddddtdhddled VILLA ALAA Ahh hhh ds

 

 

 

{

eee Reena eee

= Corer ee ee THN MT Tc LO iy

PHARMACY COU RSE

ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS:—

 

 

he a:

=]
ea

—

i

|
'

|

 

re 7 | 1. Matriculation in English, Latin, French or German, History, Algerbra, Geotax on. metry, Physies and Chemistry.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

ee 2. ‘Two years practical service in Pharmacy under a registered pharmacist.
ye. ed the bill. (Three years must be completed bef !ore license 1 is granted in New Bruns}\ declared was a , wick and four years in Nova Scotia).
| ee P Sack oh The College Course may be completed i in two years full time, or four years
member deigned to concurrent with practical service.
sive Con a Candidates who have taken University classes corresponding to the following
ia’ Wiss G. Mile. Labe may receive credit if evidence of satisfactory standing is submitted :—
oy ; stiongly opposed the bi English 1; Chemistry 1, 2 and 4: Physics 1; Biology 1 or 1A and 5; Physinot in the interests of .., ology 1 or ‘1B. . |

young men into marriage, atu-Mor further particulars address
isier of Justice (Don McInnes) t

Free Love Maritime College of P har macy.

W. E. Mosley, Liberal member f
iouth, also opposed the bil!, “The gv MEDICAL eiaicession en

nent promised reduction in taxation and be
OLLEGE EST.
