 

 

 

  

   
 
   

  
  
  
 
   
  

 

aight page

VOL. LXE |)

 

; ‘A ” ay <7

‘ oT

;
e
e a

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 9ru, 1930.

Th

POS Ra >

P ae
i oar ie

rE

|

No. 1

 

Dalhousie Mourns The Los

_ of Her Beloved Dead.

 

Prukadaor Howard Murray Has Passed to the Great Beyond.

The purple sunset of Tuesday,
September 9th, bringing in its wake
the sombre twilight, bore away in a
soft embrace the soul of Professor
Howard Murray beloved Dean of our
University. With his passing, Dalhousie loses one of her oldest and wisest
teachers; Nova Scotia loses one of her
most earnest and faithful citizens; and
the world loses a kind and noble gentleman. Truly his decease leaves an
almost irreparable lacuna in the life of
Dalhousie. ase

Like so many of the leaders in his
chosen profession, Dr. Murray was a
native of Pictou County, where he
first saw the light of day on July 17th,
1859. Among the sunny hills and
picturesque valleys of this beautiful
country, he spent the halcyon days of
carefree boyhood, and dreamed the
golden dreams of youth. Here too,
in the schools of New Glasgow, he
sipped the sweet nectar of learning, and
first felt himself attracted to the preceptorial art. Hence for two years he
received his parasceuastic training as a
pedagogue at schools in Stellarton and
New Glasgow. Then like all good
men, he entered Dalhousie University
where he soon proved his superlative
merit by capturing the coveted Gilchrist scholarship in 1881. In the
next year he journeyed to the Old
Country to continue his studies, and
after a short time was awarded the B.
A. degree by University College, London. Upon his return to Nova Scotia
he joined the staff of the Halifax

Academy, of which Jase rition he be
i
in 1891. Finally in
ed him again,

  

gs ere a

ersity, and

   
  
 

   

a ey 1907 the University of Toronto |
conferred the. degree of Doctor of

Laws.

Dr. Murray’s interests outside im-|

mediate academic circles were wide and
varied. He was an ardent member of
the venerable Studley Quoit Club, an
energetic proselyte of the North British
Society, and a devoted worshipper at
old St. Matthews Church. He was
also much in demand as a postprandial
speaker, and his sparkling wit, his
mordant sarcasm and his cyrptic
apothegms won appreciative praise
from his audiences. Especially in the
realm of provincial education was Dr.
Murray's unfailing interest most
evident. He served for twenty years
on the Advisory Council of Education
for Nova Scotia, and his name is
intimately connected with the development of the school system in his
native land. He was also for some
years chairman of the advisory board
of the Royal Military College at
Kingston.

Thus, upon the day of his funeral,
many were the friends and admirers
gathered within the ivy-covered walls
of historic St. Matthews Church, and
a distinct note of sadness was dominant
as each bowed to honour a fine old man.
While the cool September breeze rustled
the leaves outside the window, President A. Stanley MacKenzie paid a
fitting tribute to Dr. Murray in a few
well-chosen words. The Rev. J. A.
Clark and the Rev. Clarence MacKinnon also spoke in sympathetic
terms of the life and character of their
departed friend. The funeral procession as it filed slowly out Spring
Garden Road presented an impressive
sight, with the students, professors
friends and admirers all walking in
silent respect under the blue autumn
sky. The interment took place at
Fairview.

And so he has gone. The tall, upstanding form so familiar upon the
campus, and the kindly nature carrying with it some of the ancient classical
culture which he exponded so well,
these will be with us no more. Truly
one might say of him in the language he
loved so well, si quaeris hominem.
circums pice.

T. A. Goudge ’31.

  
  

gain a

a |

     

‘your rights!

Professor Murray

 

Opening Debateat)

_ Manro Hall ©
Se re Bg |

  

ae vila

65. = ‘ 4 is , i”

On guard, all ye bachelors! Look to
Know you that your
happy state of celibate bliss is to be
assaulted? Lo, the enemy, the alien
is ever now at your gates and unless
you look well to your weapons you
cannot hope to go, at a ripe old age,
down to your graves, with your hair
unthinned and your head unbowed by
th. sorrows of domestic infelicity.
Either you will be driven into uncoveted matrimony, or else your substance will be taken from” you as
tribute to the enemy. Who are the
enemy-—

John Denoon and Elizabeth Murray, fanatic worshippers of the little
naked god, who will uphold the affirmative of this outrageous and devilish
resolution

‘‘Resolved that this house favours a
tax on bachelors.’’

So are the mighty fallen, and the
Gods of the Race must fight for their
liberty. Has masculine liberty no
champions— Yes,

Tommy Goudge and Lillian Sadler, stout, independent hearts will defend your rights. But alone they will
be helpless against the hordes of the
enemy. So out every Dalhousie bachelor, and out, every co-ed, who puts the
sacred cause of liberty before feminine selfishness; Out to the Munro.
Room next Thursday night (Oct. 9th)
at 8 o’clock. Come out and support
your champion. This will be the
first meeting of Sodales this year.
Give the old Society a good send off.
You know the speakers; you know
their merits; and if they leave any
ground uncovered any rampart undefended or any citadel unattacked,
you will yourself be given opportunity
to support your side of the Resolution.

After the debate the floor will be
open for discussion. A standing vote
will decide the winners of the battle.
Before the principal feature Sodales
will hold a short business session.

Tuesday October 9th at 8 o’clock in
the Munro Room.

—_—++-e—____

Wes. Stewart is at McGill, the winner of a National Research Scholarship
in Chemistry.

Doug Scott is working in chemistry
at Shawinigan Falls.

dent Council
Gives Welcoine.

Freshmen—This past week you
have had your first taste of college life.
We tried to make your first week one of
pleasure and profit to you and we
believe your representative Mr. Grant
when he says that you are a most
“‘likely-looking”’ collection of youths
and maidens.

The first week is now over and
we must all settle down to work.
Those of us who have been here for
some time know how the days slip by
and the time of reckoning comes upon
us. So be ready.

Your class is naturally the best one
in the university. Mine is I know,
and everyone else knows that his or
hers is without doubt the most superior
one.

Knowing as you do that you have a
good class do something for it. Each
and eyery one of you has a part to
play in the affairs of this college.
Play up and play the game.

In the name of the Council of the
students I welcome you to our University and | hope and trust that your
stay may be four years at least in length
and may be for you and for us the
happiest time of our lives.

We are proud to have you with us
here and our wish is that we may
work harmoniously together for the
building of a bigger and a_ better
Dalhousie.

JOHN W. DENOON,
Pres. of C. of S.
—_—_>4-+—_____

Ewie Clark, Arts 27, is teaching in
the Yarmouth High School this winter.

 

Joan Sweeney, Science 30, is attending the Business College this year.

idaughter of the Rev. J.

s|President of Stu-| Several Changes

in Staff Noted
at Studley.

Miss Lowe who has been a very
efficient dean for seven years has left
to be the principal at Bishops Strachan
School in Toronto. Needless to say
she is greately missed.

Miss McKeen who is replacing Miss
Lowe came to us directly from Simmonds where she was in charge of a
school for graduates.

Her home was originally in Glace
Bay, Cape Breton where her father
was a well known physician. Sometime before the war Miss McKeen
entered McGill University from which
she graduated with degree of Bachelor
of Arts. When the war broke out she
she served full time. as A. V. A. D.

On her return to Canada, Miss
McKeen accepted a’ position at Royal
Victoria College which she left later to
gc to Simmonds where she took a
course in Household Management.
During the summer months Miss McKeen lived on her farm at Bayswater
New Brunswick whereshe kept a camp
for little tots.

Although she has been with us for
such a short time we have found her
friendly and willing to help the girls
and we know that she will make a very
capable matron.

Another change in the staff is that
Miss Marion Clarke has come to take
the place of Dr. Molly Stevenson,
Miss Clarke, a resident of Halifax and
A. Clarke,
graduated from Dal in '238. She was in
the University Library and the following year entered the Royal Victoria
Hospital in Montreal. On graduating
she returned to McGill to take a Post
Graduate Course in Nursing. This
year Miss Clarke has returned to
Halifax and is busily engaged in keeping the girls at Shirreff Hall from
having ptomaine poisoning.

 

Greeting

co ee

from the President:
CEL =>

I WISH to take advantage of the appearance of this first issue of the
GAZETTE to express again to all new Dalhousians the cordial greeting which I extended
to them on Thursday of Freshmen Week. We
appreciate the fact that Dalhousie is the college
of your choice, and hope that you may never

have cause to regret it.

I am sure this will be

the case if you properly proportion your time
and energy between class work and outside
activities. Both are necessary in order to get
full value from your college days. but let me
emphasize the request I made before—be fair to

both.

To all old students I give a double welcome,
you who have not only come to us but who have
stayed with us, and are helping to carry on the
good old Dalhousie Tradition. But more than
that, you are the ones who are helping to mould
that tradition to meet the changing times.

May 1930-31 be a successful and happy

session for you all.

 

Dalhousie University,

September 30, 1930.

President.

British Debaters to Meet Dal.

in Forensic Encounter.

 

Howse and Jost

to Represent the

University.

 

Extends Greetings

Freshman Week
Was a Great
Success

 

- Dalhousie’s fourth annual Fresh‘thea week has nuw passed into history
and with its successful completion, it
becomes a permanent part of eaci
years program. The success of the
week depends almost entirely on th»
untiring efforts of Donald G, Gran
Freshman representative on the council
or udents, who gave so much oF his
time and talent to introduce the new
students at the university to the
various college activities. The programme was varied and extensive.
Activities commenced on Wednesday
morning, September 24 at 11.00 a. m.
in the Chem. Theatre, Science Building,
when what is now termed Class 34 of
Dalhousie met in a group for the first
time. They were given a short address
by Don Grant, full of wit and wisdom.
A talk on athletics followed, Big Jim
McLeod, president of the D. A. A. C.:;
Art Sutherand, ca tain of the Senior
rugby team and W. E. Stirling, physical
instructor at Dalhousie, each spoke for
a few minutes and all urged that the
freshman class support Dalhousie in
her athletic endeavours. The freshettes were addressed on girls’ sports by
Miss Florence Harris, new physical
instructress at the university. At
noon, the new students met their

freshman advisors.

In the afternoon, the boys met on the
football field and had a rough and ready
workout, under the direction of one of
the members of the senior rugby team.
The girls held a freshette picnic at
Rainbow Haven.

On Thursday, Dr. A. Stanley Mackenzie, president of the university gave
the class a brief address of welcome
Dr. Mackenzie gave an outline of
Dalhousie’s history and some of the
great names that have been associated
with the university. Representatives
of the various student activities also
extended their welcome. John W,.
Denoon, president of the Students’
Council; Professor Horace Read of the

Canadian Officers Training Corps;
Richard Donahoe, president of the
Glee Club; A. Gordon Cooper, re
presenting Sodales Debating Society;
Arthur Pattillo, editor of the Gazette:
Charles Anderson, executive member
of the Students Christian Association,
and Richard Squires, president of the
Sophmore Class, were among the
speakers,

Visits to the Dalhousie Library and
the Dalhousie Professional Schools also
formed part of the morning program.

Continued on page 4.

¥ “Resolved that this

 

| brief tour of the United States.

 

house is in
favour of the principale of dictatorship.”” Upon this issue, a Dalhousie
debating team will, on the night of
Oct. 14th, oppose a visiting team from
the United Kingdom. The debate
will be held in Studley Gymnasium.
By reason of the pre-eminence of the
participants in the art of public
speaking, and because of the nationwide sponsorship of their meeting, the
coming forsenic contest will, in all
probability, be the most outstanding
of the year.

Mr. H. Trevor Lloyd, of the Univer.
sity of Bristol, England, and Mr. John
Mitchell of the University of Aberdeen, Scotland comprise the visiting
team, and will uphold the affirmative
side of the Resolution. Mr. Lloyd
represents the Union of Students of
England and Wales. Mr. Mitchell is
the nominee of the Students Representative Councils of Scotland.

Mr. Ernest Howse and Mr. William
Jost will support the negative of the
Resolution for Dalhousie. Mr. Howse
is Dalhousie’s veteran active debater,
Mr. Jost will represent this University
in a home debate for the first time.

The coming contest will be the first
in a series of Trans-Canada debates
to be conducted by the National
Federation of Canadian University
Students. From Halifax, where they
will first touch Dominion soil, the
visitors will go to Sackville to contend
against Mount Allison. Thence they
will travel to the coast, speaking at
every University within the Federation.
Their trip will be concluded with a
From
New York they will sail on December
the 13th for home. |

the forthcoming \debate will provide
interest and instcuction that every
student ought to share. Not only are
four speakers pre-eminent and
outstanding as may be seen from their
records. Not only are the auspices
nationwide, although that, too, merits
attention; aside from these facts, the
Resolution itseif should appeal strongly
to the Student body. Italy the modern
protagonist of Dictatorship, with Spain
and Poland in her train has became a
phenomenal example. Her success and
prosperity have flung a challenge into
the face of Democracy. Dictatorship
may be shunned, but its potentialities
must be recognized. Here will be a
chance to hear a topi¢ of international
interest and importance discussed by
speakers who have given the subject
much study and who have the ability
to make it live. And finally, as one of
the silken threads that bind the
Empire closer than links of iron, the
coming debate exerts a claim upon
every Dalhousie Student.

All indications i to the effect. that |

47
Lac

 

Council Holds Its
First Meeting

The first meeting of the Council of
the Students was held in the Munro
Room on October 1, with John Den ;
presiding. The attendance of members
of the Council was good and a number
of interested students were also present.

Among the important points which
came up were: The vacancy vreated
by the resignation of Nary Crocker,

Vice-President of the Council. This
will necessitate a bye-election in class
"30.

There was also an announcement

that a satisfactory settlement had been
reached as regards the payment of
student fees between the King’s and
Dalhousie Students.

Arrangements were made to hold the
annual Student’s Council Dance in the
Gymnasium on Monday October 6.
The committee chosen to arrange the
dance consists of:

Tom Goudge,
Bob Brown,
Jimmy Muir.

Continued on page 4.

 

 

| Tickets $3.00

 

| JOE MILLS
and his Orchestra

 

 

 

THE

VIED. DANCE

Mon., Oct. 27 - Lord Nelson Hotel

TSP. M.

 

 

 

Special

Elaborate Supper |
Unexcelled Music |

Door Prize

 

 
  
  
  
   
  
    

Managing Editor:
A. GORDON COOPER
S.2148.

is estoy Associates:
one fi ud T. A, GOUDGE,
ee ve . T. D. MACDONALD,
aN RS 7 Ree Ee W. T. DAUPHINEE,4
Bid ig? DORIS MARGESON.
a3

- ~~. HELEN WILLIAMS, .
_ MARGARET DORMAN.
e a .

Sports Editor:
F. R. DUXBURY.

News Editors:
‘a CHARLES MILLER,

eS . Z DOUGLAS GIBBON,
ROBERT KANIGSBERG,

ELIZABETH MURRAY.
. Business Manager: .
Rite J. R. DONAHOE,

iy ~§.4086J.

Asst. Business Manager:
DONALD MAHON,
. L 2074

 

PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. $.

 

 

BRS cain b GAZETTE.

The Gazette, with all the responsibility its publication entails,
has passed into control of other hands than those who shaped its
destiny during the college year gone past. It seeks this year to
fulfill but two functions, first, to present to the students of Dalhousie all the news of their University which will be of interest to
them, and second, to provide a medium for the expression of
literary talent no doubt possessed by many Dalhousians. With
_ the publication of the first issue we publish also an appeal for your
assistance in enabling us to fulfill the two functions mentioned
above. Although we as editors are primarily charged with the
_ presentation of College news to our subscribers and to those who
have paid their ten dollar fee we cannot adequately interpret
Dalhousie student opinion nor unearth embryo talent without the
_-_— assistance of those at the University who read the sheet presented
Ea to them weekly. News Gathering also must be attempted by the

many rather than the few to achieve success in presenting weekly
-___all happenings of interest at Dalhousie.

- --__—_—s Ass stated above we do not lose sight of the fact that responsibility for the success of the Gazette rests primarily with the editors.

f
ae
oa

7 » 2
fare

_ However all students have an indirect responsibility and interest
in the paper which attempts to voice their opinions and record
in 5 _ their doings. A practical expression of this indirect responsibility

Be in the form of, contributions of news stories and articles is what we
vey a. FP Pes | ete 1 APO Le y Pen. ‘5 : “~£ oa : ant. sae" .

desire. Criticism we do not ask for. That will come in abundant
elie ne alts fatale

But in order that the Gazette may fulfill

to you may we solict your assistance in the

‘kly pa mR te eae eae ft |
. re ; Ame

eee

we 2) od ‘5 ee o Ma ;

; measure unrec ed.
Pa estes rigs ee i hyphae
another year of servic

r i> si an 1 S le: Tt St ve
es eee apr SSeS

___- Presentation of your
i oT; Z a reese aaa? ‘se 14
ie we eal

ov a PAU

BY

: : m ss a
i fee ome aoe pe ta
\ ' Hehe, pg | iy .

     
   

   
   

    
           
  
  
   

  
  

fA ay

inka Le

    
 
 
 

een Anat 8, Ae Tt AN ) p?
ry hy a ? pe Tae r ; eet rer A RS ih i
ee: TMM Mad eels eerie |
i" \ ae . fe lS Py te ee ore, ; e . : pam fm rd 6
yee a is year return to a campu $s presenting a more
vf

  

_ delightful prosp Peepers reerer than ever before.
Pere _ The grounds have as always been kept in such perfect condition
St ae that one realizes that one misses the season when the University
_ in its physical aspect is at its best. However, beauty of lawn and
tree and flower will remain for us to enjoy through the fleeting

autumn term when the thud of boot on pigskin echoes from the
playing field’, when we welcome back io the old College—for the
last time perhaps—those fast friends who have shared our good
times and bad since we strode up the Library steps as Freshmen
---—~—-— about to enter the portals of a new world.

mr The King’s group present a notable addition to the University
E _ buildings. Occupying a splendid site they present to one entering
.

“<
¥ tg
he,

the grounds by the broad new driveway a picture of architectural
beauty. This old College has at last arrived through a stormy
_ period when she may rest from her labors, strengthened for a
future of increasing usefulness by the tiadition and achievement
_ of the past. The massive pillars and lofty dome of the main
building seem to express in beauty and strength the indomitable
___ spirit of the old University risen triumphant from the ashes of the
fee Past.
The building constructed to house the archives of the province
are of Nova Scotia is one which carries out in every way the dignity
| of the structures to which it is neighbour. The lawns and terraces
immediately surrounding add to the appearance of the building
itself, All in all Dalhousians can justifiably take pride in the
=a _ appearance of the outward and visible part of the University this
aoa) Wear.

ty FRESHMEN WEEK.

_ The Freshmen have arrived in numbers greater than ever
before and another class has come into being to pursue the uneven
tenor of its four fleeting years of University life. They have been
harangued by college notables, talked about and carefully inspected
by all others, officially welcomed in voluminous and high sounding
phrases and are now settling down to the first week’s hunt for class
rooms and the ignominy of Sophomore rules. A far cry from the
stormy receptions of first year men in past years is the present
welcome given to our latest crop of would-be graduates. Freshman week serves as a breathing space between the spheres of High
School and College. An innovation of comparatively recent date,
it has excited comment from many both of an unfavorable and a
favorable nature.

This period of gradual introduction to College, now in practice
in many Univeisities, appears to be an eminently satisfactory
method of allowing a strange youth to become acquainted with the
institution where he expects to pass at least four years of his life
and to partake during that time of all that University life can offer
him. However, there are always some—graduates and others—
who will claim that a pair of black eyes judiciously administered
in fair combat, form a far more effective introduction to a University than a week of speech making and general social activity.
It should be realized that both the violent form of initation and
__ the more recent plan of Freshman week, removing as it does much
_ of the violence from the old form, have one object in common and
that is to mould a group of raw Freshmen into University men who
will become ardent supporters of their University’s activities.
_ Which is the better way to achieve this common object? It has
ie ; appeared rather unnecessary that in order to become a
nber of any student body one must first be looked upon as
! gh one were a highly undesirable person attempting to force
ght y io a . Bae
Lets

 

  
    
    
   
     
  

ae
rn a a +
esi

  

   

| Next I was ushere

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

® 3
A Senior’s Dream

Buzz z z z—1 was soon asleep and on
the high road to that place called
heaven. Not "Seventh Heaven’’. you
know, for I have heard it said that it
may now be purchased at all bookstores for the sum of one dollar.

Slowly I began to ascend the heavenly stairyand,believe me the going was
mightygtough. You see, every time

took one step forward, I seemed to
slip back two. I finally decided that
the only way to get there was to turn
around and walk backwards. I finally
arrived at the Gates, and lo! Murray
was playing gatemen. Now it seems
that Saint Peter was not at the gate
for the simple reason that he had failed
in the spring exams, and the Committee
of Studies had decided that he was
therefore ineligible to play gateman.
It also goes without saying that he
didn’t get his ‘‘D”. After showing
Murray that I had matriculated in
everything, I was admitted. Well
bless me, if the first thing that I heard
wasn’t the choir! There the choir
was singing at the top of their voices,
but there’s no law there against that.
Every now and then bells would ring
out, yes, just as often and as untimely
as at dear old Dal. These bells would
usher in a new season, or lecture, or
member, or what have you- But
mind you, in all of Heaven | only
found fifteen Dalhousians. I mean
including professors. ‘‘Surely there
must be some mistake,”’ says I to me, as
I slowly wended my way to the lower
regions where Dante played tiddlie
winks. Well! WeJl! who should be
there at the gate but Herbie himself.
Yep, there stood my onetime philosophy professor, grinning all over himelf, either at the chance of being able
to tell me a new joke, or else because he
could refuse admittance to as many as
he liked. But I got by. After reciting Caesare, Barbara, Camestres etc.,
three times Herbie passed me and
patted my back. Just the minute
I got in, the strains, (for it certainly
was strained), of Sina’s band oozled
into my auditors. Guess what they
were playing- Yes, ‘‘This is Dalhousie’s Day.’’ The reason for this
outburst of frivolity was that George
Crouse had bought a new tie and
derby. To celebrate this, the Glee
Club were presenting the play, ‘‘Money
Comes to College, but it Never Goes
Back.” The reserved seats in the
very front row were soon occupied,
and heading these customers was
none other than our veritable misoginst
Dr. Todd. It was a gala day for
Dalhousie.

But to come back to the Campus.
There was taking place in the gymnasium a “‘reception’’ for the year
crop of freshmen, And believe me the
reception sure was a warm affair.
‘Those of the freshmen who weren't
green, were black and blue and it
certainly looked as if the seats in the
isses will have to be padded.
Ve into the ‘‘Has.
Hash Hall.” -Now I was to cast or
feast my specs upon the shipment of
Freshettes. By the looks of some of
them, I decided right then and there,
that there must have been some mistake. Surely these were addressed
to the Dalhousie Museum or the New
Archives building were they notBut it was only a dream, but in reality
even though the Sophettes had bedecked and bedabbled them with all
sorts of paraphanalia, yet behind it all,
they would give anyone an inspiration
to ‘await the dawn,” or ‘‘write poetry”
or any other crazy thing. :

Well there was Claire Hicks running
down with the Hand Cart and some
other Hillers with a few cups ofwater.
This was the Fire Department I had
read so much about. Just before it
had completely burnt to the ground,
they had the fire under perfect control.
Then a loud crash came, and on investigating, I found that I had fallen
out of bed and that Dalhousie was a
darn fine place after all,

 
 
       

ee

—

 

R. K, |

New Store

Has | Opened

Before college closed in the spring
a committee consisting of Professors
J. M. Macdonald,gA. L. Macdonald,
R. A. MacKay, Mr..George Mahon and
Mr. Murray Rankin, was constituted
to investigate the possibilities of a
students’ book store and tuck shop.
It was at first intended to organize it
on the basis of a consumers’ Cooperative, that is, to return profits to buyers
on the basis of their purchases—a plan
followed in many American colleges.
Owing to various difficulties, of which
the lack of sufficient capital was the
most important, this plan was subsequently abandoned.

In August, the Canadian Nationa,
Institute for the Blind requested permission to open a ‘“‘tuck-shop” on the
campus, agreeing to put a competent
operator in charge. This seemed to
offer to the committee a satisfactory
way out of their difficulties. Arrangements were shortly made for the
University to grant a concession to the
Institute to operate a tuck and stationery shop. In return, the operator
should handle the book business without charge and under the supervision
of a committee representing the University and the Students’ Council. This
arrangement was completed late in
August, but it was discovered that the
book dealers down town had already
stocked books for certain classes and
had other books on order. It was felt,
therefore, by the Committee that it
would be rather unfair to the dealers to
take over the book business completely.
In addition, the space which the
University could spare for the store
was too small to handle the whole
business properly. Consequently, an
arrangement was made with the book
dealers that the store should stock for
certain classes only, while the dealers
would stock for others, with store and
dealers both however, receiving the
right to order any books desired by
individual students.

All arrangements, both with the
Institute and with the dealers, are only
for this year. A year’s experience
should show whether a book store and
tuck shop is advisable, and if so,
whether the store should enlarge its
activities. Further, the profits (if any)
from the book business this year will
go towards building upa capital account
for future business.

The committee wishes to introduce
to the students Mr. Roy Atwood, the
operator in charge. Mr. Atwood,
despite physical handycaps, has had a
successful experience as a magazine
agent and the committee feels confident
he will manage the store successfully
and give service to the Student Body.

The committee also wishes to thank
the students for their patronage so far.
The store is greatly handicapped by
lack of space in addition to the difficulties incident to starting up a new
business, and the committee appreciates
the patience of the students in putting
up with these inconveniences. The
store is for the service of the Student
Body, and the committee will welcome
criticism and suggestions as to the
improvement of this service.

R. A. MacKay,
M. M. Rankin,
John Denoon.

—————»+-oe__—_

Elizabeth Frame, M. A. 29, has
accepted a position on the teaching staff
of Smith’s College.

Jean MacKenzie, Arts 28, has returned to Netherwood after spending
the summer abroad.

Jean DeMone, Arts 29, Dorothy
Kaye, Arts 29, Edna Harris, Arts 30,
Jean Morrison, Arts 30, and Margaret
Jubien, Arts 30, are all teaching the
city schools this year.

 

REQUIESCAT IN PACE.

The beloved Dean of the

University, Howard

Murray, has passed on into that larger life which
knows no death. The cultured genileman, the inimitable
teacher, the finished scholar, revered and loved by all
who came under his kindly influence, is gone, and
Dalhousie mourns him in death as she loved him in

life.

education.

For many long years he served the cause of
Successively was he student,

professor

and dean of the Uniwersity which reveres his memory
and during his many terms as teacher within her halls
he left an indelible impression on the characters of all

those who passed through his classes.

He was an

intimate part of Dalhousie, a vital presence breathing
into the institution his own steadfastness of character.
He represented the very finest type of gentleman and

scholar.

Cultured, with a perfect command of his

native tongue, just with all on whom he sat in judgment,
possessing a dignity and charm of manner found all
too seldom in these modern days, his death leaves an

aching void tn the hearts of all Dalhousians.

A living

part of Dalhousie has passed on. But the memory of
Howard Murray will remain an inspiration and a
challenge to the youth who will seek to gain from the
Universtiy where he labored the strength of mind and
heart, the culture and learning that were his.

 

an unwelcome entry into a charmed circle only to be repulsed by

any means at the guardian Sophomore’s power.

The present

system of giving to a first year man every encouragement rather
than discouragement to find himself a niche and become an active
participant in the affairs of his College appears more worthy of
recommendation than the former method of forcing a new student
to drop into new and hostile surroundings absolutely without

guidance or assistance.

eh
; . 4 ey
ee ee ee

 

Changes on

Medical Staff

Before mention is made of those taking
over the reigns of office in the department
of Anatomy and Pharmacology it is
fitting that a word of tribute be said of
those who have just vacated these
positions.

Dr. O. S. Gibbs resigned the position
of professor of Pharmacology last
spring and has since journeyed to the
old country to establish a practice
there. With his departure the medica
school has lost not only an experienced
and clever technician and lecturer, but
a man who energetically devoted his
time and efforts towards helping the
students really gain a sound and
practical knowledge of the science of
drugs.

Our loss seemed doubly acute however when the report of Dr. Cameron's
intended departure was verified. It is
relatively impossible to attempt to
describe the qualities which so impressed us and drew usto him. It was
not only his knowledge which he endeavored so faithfully to in some
measure instill into us that made us
admire him, but it was he himself with
his frequent touches of typical Scotch
wit, his interest in each individual
student and his kindly sympathies
drew forth the respect, admiration and
sincere friendship of every one of his
students. On leaving Dr. Cameron
expressed his regret in departing from
Dalhousie but felt that his health
necessitated his taking a complete rest;
however we are gratified by the reports
that his sojourn in Scotland is producing favorable results. Even though he
is no longer with us, we will always
think of Dr. Cameron as someone intrinsically bound up with the medical
school of Dalhousie and we will always
associate the name of ‘“‘Jock’’ with
something akin to a revered friendship.

With the opening of this term the
medical school welcomed Dr. Donald
Mainland who came to us from the
University of Manitoba to take over
the professorship of Anatomy. His
system of teaching differs somewhat
from that of his predecessor and
appears to be more in the line of
Surgical Anatomy than in that of the
old school. He is using the ‘‘two little
books’”’ in the 2nd year class and is
introducing ‘‘Cunningham”’ to the first
year students. Assisting him in instruction is Dr. V. O. Mader who
assisted Dr. Cameron previously, Dr.
Holland who is a Dal graduate and gold
medalist, Dr. Sangster and Dr. Ross
who were listed among Dalhousie’s
graduates of last year.

In Pharmacology Dr. Dreyer has
taken over the professorship. Dr.
Dreyer made himself known to Dalhousie students 2 years ago when he
temporarily took charge of the Physiology dept. succeeding Dr. Babkin,
Since then he has been with the Department of Pharmacology at McGill.
On his return to Dalhousie he has been
warmly welcomed by his former students many of whom are now again
under his instruction.

In the department of Pathology Dr.
N. H. Gosse has taken over the position
of instructor; this position was fromerly
occupied by the late Dr. J. N. Lyons.
Dr. Mary C. Stevenson who served
with the Pathology dept. for many
years has forsaken this office in favor
of the bonds of wedlock.

Dr. A. E. Murray who is another of
Dalhousie’s recent graduates is acting
this year as assistant in the Biochemistry department. This position
was left vacant by the departure of
Gordon Grant, B.Sc. who has gone to
Toronto to do post-graduate work.

Dal. vs. Mt. A. Sat.

 

ee a

Octobter 9th, 1930

Through the
Looking Glass

 

 

The new heading
Its characteristics
An expression of appreciation

The Gazette is very proud of the
opportunity to point out to its readers
that it is this year appearing under a
new heading. The lighthouse has
given away to the college crest and the
drawings of the Forrest Building and,
the Studley gates are appearing for the
first time. The new title is very
similar to that which graced the front
page during the editorship of Mr.
Guss. It has that same dignity and
simplicity which characterized that
heading but is unique in some respects.

Firstly, drawings have taken the
place of the pictures which were then
used. This is merly to retain the same
idea but to make it somewhat distinctive. Also a simpler crest is being
used to endeavour to add to that
beauty which so marked the former
title.

We believe however that this year’s
heading will be unique and especially
distinctive because of the fact that it
was designed by a student of the
University, a member of the Gazette
Staff. We deem ourselves indeed fortunate, and we are certain that the
Student Body will support us in this
statement, in having among our number one who is so gifted.

Not only are we fortunate in this
instance but we have been so many
times in the past. To the pages of the
Year Book as well as those of the
Gazette. Mr. Goudge has made many
contributions, contributions whose vyalue has always in the eyes of the editor
been enhanced by the willingness with
which they are offered. As Herbert
Stewart might say in Philosophy 1, we
too often overlook the obvious. Only
when our benefits have been removed
do we awake to an appreciation of
them. Too often the latter is the case
but the Gazette prides itself in realizing
what an asset it has in Mr. T. Goudge
and confident that in this realization
tion as always it is merely voicing the
opinion of the students.

The Gazette is reintroducing the old
plan of offering prizes to the students
who contribute the best pieces of prose
and poetry to the paper during a set
period. A Committee will be appointed from among the professors to
award the prizes, theffirst period during
which you will have an opportunity to
win a prize will end with the fourth
issue,

This offer is intended as a stimulus
to those who are backward in sending
in contributions and is also an effort to
improve the quality of a large percentage of the material submitted.
Hurry and submit your article or
peice of poetry. This is your op
portunity to make the Gazette a better

paper and at the same be awarded for
your efforts.

 

 

Personals

Shiela MacDonald, Arts 30, is taking
a course in dietetics at the Fanny
Farmer School of Cookery this winter.

Virginia Irwin, Arts 30, has left for
Toronto University, to take a librarians
course,

 

who has been
assistant in the Biology lab., is now
in Toronto, to do research work, having
received a National Research Council
scholarship.

Margaret Butler,

Elizabeth Saunderson, Arts 33, spent
the summer in Paris.

 

 

--the students shop
sends greetings-
school’s in----and thots of
formal class dances are

paramount.

we carry a

very complete line of tuxedos, dress shirts, etc.

and may we remind the
freshmen that we have

““DAL”’

sweaters in the

authentic college colors.

students get a discount of ten per cent.

Shanes Mens Wear
Shop

30 Spring Garden Road, Halifax

 

 
      
   

he

aie 2
xs
cae iv
4 he

+

Ml
.

bi yt ‘

“ 4 7 Lf P cy ae |
_ 5 oe a ee " apices
re at a * a — ¢ > ao oe
leo ‘-£ : a a A a
ma) 4 oe ’ = a e
a a. & "s " “a a
oe - aa - Ja galiietm appar Hate

a
eet

ie ie

ty en
“a fcr r
ol

—_-—

iP
As, tie Ce

ad

t= i ae a. 3
«
me

     
 

oy
ML ‘ 3
Beh 4

ee

i ED

a "

¢
"n
a

_ Dalhousie Loses
First Game of Season

- Clabmen Outplay Tigers
To Win.

 

Art bah any

Tiger Capt.
ee oi Taking advantages’ of
the breaksof the game,
the Wanderers got
away to a good start
in the opening fixture
of the Halifax City
Rugby League by defeating the Dalhousie
Tigers, 14-3 atStudley
on Saturday afternoon.

Approximately three thousand people
saw Timmy Hunter,’ diminutive star of

 

the “Reds” net eleven points through

suberb kicking nine points of which
were garnered from difficult angles.
He also starred with a long run which

resulted in their only try and then
- converted from a position directly in

front of the goals.

 % The Wanderer's scrum controlled the
_ ball in about ninety per cent of the
_ scrummages feeding Bev Piers, who
played a splendid game at _ flying

quarter, hurling long passes to his wing
men. The Dal backs bunched too
much leaving several men uncovered
who invariably got away for a number

of long runs but were, in almost every
case brought down by the faster running

Tiger backfield.

The tackling of Vance Maxwell,

He is wearing
the new ‘Snow
flake’ fabric

made up in the
‘Talkie Town’

model.

Why not see
these smart

FALL SUITS.

Brothers

Limited

Hl 453-457 Barrington St.

 

flashy block quarter of the Yellow and
Black squad, was the feature of the
match, time after time he followed up
punts to nail the man catching them,
in his tracks. Buckley, former Acadia
star, playing flying quarter for the Dal
team made a pretty run through a
broken field in the first half to score the
only try for the collegians which Archie
MacDonald failed to convert by a
narrow margin.

The Dal forwards were not up to
their usual form being slow on following
up, thus leaving most of the work for
the backs, the tailing up men were also
late in getting into position and it was
largely owingito thisthat the Wanderers
got the jump on them time and again
resulting in the ball coming cleanly
through their end of the scrum, while
every time Dal got the ball it did not
clear the feet of the second line and
thus Dickie, playing senior football for
the first time was penalized several
times for picking it out.

After the playing of ““O Canada”’ by
Sina Singer’s musicians the play started
with the Wanderer's kicking off, the ball
landed in the arms of Harvey Sutherland near the college twenty five yard
line and was returned with a kick into
touch near centre field. Following this
play zigzagged up and down the field
and was featured for the most part by
free kicks awarded by Umpire Murray
Logan for misdemeanours on the part
of the forwards which took the form of
faulty scrimmages and off side plays,
one of which resulted in a three point
gain for the Reds when Timmy Hunter

five yard line.
The Dal team failed, in the kick off,

Redland Bobby MacCoy kicked into
the wind for a small gain. Although
Dal had a marked wind advantage in
this half the failure of the scrum to
obtain possession of the ball resulted
in few gains for the Studleyites. The
snappy work of Dr.*‘Johnny” Dobson
at block quarter for the Wanderers
hindered Buckley in getting away his
kicks cleanly. Dalhousie worked their
way gradually to the five yard line before the end of the initial period and
showed a semblance of their former
title-winning ability and heeled the
ball cleanly from the scrum, Buckley
took the ball from Dickey and manoeuvered his way over the line near the
posts for a very ‘pretty try thus tieing
the score. The Tigers tried hard for a
lead in the dying moments of the first
half but their efforts proved fruitless
and the period ended with a three all
tally.

The second half opened with the
Tigers kicking into the wind which
showed no signs of abatement and consequently the return kick resulted in a
decided gain for the Wanderers. The
fifteen from Redland had it all over the
Studley performers in this stanza,
helped considerably by the strong wind
and. the numerous free kicks awarded
by the refree, two of which resulted in
tallies, swelling the count to nine as
compared with the three points netted
by Buckley’s try in the first period.
The additional five points came when
Timmy Hunter started a run for the
Reds from center field and after a nice
run to the twenty-five yard line passed
tofa teammate who deposited the ball
directly behind the posts. Hunter
converted the try without apparent
effort.

The showing made by the Tigers was
quite disappointing to the hundreds of
student fans who turned out to cheertheir representatives to victory. Overconfidence is considered largely responsible for the showing made on
Saturday and with an additional week
of practice and conditioning all are
confident that next week will see an
altogether different result when the
Gold and Black will meet the Mount
Allison fifteen at Studley.

Dal, vs. Mt. A. Sat.

 

scored on a place kick from the twenty
togain the ten yard line and a scrum at,
center field ensued the Wanderers getting.
|the ball from the scrum, Following a
| short run by the three quarter line from

First and Best of | ANNUAL L

| the Year

ONCE AGAIN THE LAWYERS
SET THE PACE

- Augmented Orchestra Couple $4.00

Maritime Interscholastic Track

and Field

Meet

 

All records go by the board but one.

St. Mary’s Collegiate win team
prize. Nicks takes individual
cup.

Twenty schools throughout the Maritimes were represented in the second
annual M. I. T. & F. Meet held at
Studley campus on Saturday, Sept.
27th, under the distinguished patronage
of Honourable J. C. Tory, Lieutenant
Governor of Nova Scotia.

A crowd of 1,500 witnessed ten new
records being set up, the only record to
stand was that of the shot put, and
some maintain that this one would
have been broken had a certain young
giant from Mt. A. Academy exerted
himself. Several records were broken
twice over, as was seen in the heats of
the 60 yard dash M. Lighter and I.
Hyisky each ran it in 6 3-5ths.

St. Mary’s collegiate captured both
relay eventsand these together with a
second in the high jump, and a third
place in the mile run were sufficient to
give them the team prize with a total
of 22 points, thus winning the trophy
donated by the university, while Colchester County Academy, last year’s
winner, took second place with a score
of 15 points.

Frank Nicks, sprinting wonder of
Halifax County Academy, won the
individual prize, tying for first place
with Fred Fox of Lunenburg, but was
awarded the cup due to his position on
the H. C, A. relay team which took 8rd
place. Owing to the tie and splendid
showing of Fox the committee in
charge decided to award a_ special
prize.

The real event of the day was that of
the high jump, Hazen Young of St.
ce clearing the bar at 5ft. 5 1-4 ins

reaking the old record by 5 1-4 ins

es Brown, representing St. Mary’s

Collegiate, a Moncton youth, took
second in this event, aiding materially
in his team’s win. |

In the semi-finals of the Century
Laidlaw of New Glasgow lowered the
record one fifth of a second, making the
new record 10 2-5ths. The most
thrilling finish of the day was in the
finals of this event which Laidlaw, Fox
and Lighter got away to a perfect
start, the finish being so close that the
judges had to be on their toes to pick
the winner, Laidlaw taking first place,
with Lighter second and Fox third.

In the 220 yds dash Fox broke the
record in his heat, being pressed by
Lighter all the way. Frank Nicks
equalled the new mark in his heat and
then in the finals lowered the mark
still further by setting a mark of 24 1-5
th. seconds. Fraser Cole of Bridgewater High, lowered the old mark in
the 440 to 55 3-5 th. seconds, running a
beautiful race in his heat, but getting
away to a bad start in the finals, which
was won by Frank Nicks, Cole failing
to place.

Still another record was set in the
half mile run, Lightfoot of Wolfville
running a heady race from the start and
content to let the others set a pace,
till they tired, he came through fast and
won with yards to spare, fifteen, in fact.

Sorge, of Amherst started away fast
in the mile run but was unable to keep

at STUDLEY
Sat. Oct.11

2 O’CLOCK

ee

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

8 EE ee a

up the pace and George won the race, | ability to carry the ball,owing tothe
also establishing a new record of 5 mins. | failure on the part of the scrum to heel

1 4-5th secs. George Chipman, Lunenburg, was second, and Allan Theakston
of Colchester, third.

The running broad jump was keenly
contested, Earl Ryan, of St. Francis
Xavier, making a magnificent jump of
20 ft. 10 1-2 ins. Cameron of Pictou,
with Laidlaw third. The old record
was broken by almost a foot.

St. Mary’s won both relays after
Glace Bay broke the old record, in
their heat of the 400 yd. event, but
failed to place in the finals. St. Mary’s
now took a hand in breaking records
and set a new mark in the mile relay,
that of 8 mins. 52 3-5th secs.

Adrian Marble, Mt. A. giant, got
away a good heave in the first part of
the 12 pound shot put but did not
follow it up with the result that Everett,
Colchester, won the event with a cast
of 37 feet.

The committee in charge was,—
Prof. M. M. Macneil, Chairman,
Murray Rankine, Secretary, W. E
Sterling, Dr. E. K. McLellan,

Under their capable supervision the
events were run off well with no unnecessary delays, thus keeping interest
at a high pitch. St. Patrick’s Home
Band furnished music throughout the
day and deserve commendation on
their skill and generosity.

The officials were supplemented from
the student body of Dalhousie who
gave their whole hearted support, assisting in many ways.

E.R. WD.

 

There was a noticeable lack of .cooperation with the cheer leaders on the
part of the Students. Gordon Graham,
former cheer-leader of ’26 was in
charge, ably assisted by Big Jim MacLeod and Bobby Donahoe. The leaders were unable to get the students to
snap out of their lethargic state resulting possibly in the listless playing
of the team members. The support
given by the fans has a direct bearing
on the playing of the men who were so
evidently lacking in pep on Saturday.

Regarding the Dalhousie band, Richard Donahoe, President of the Glee
Club and Sina Singer, in charge of the
Band worked hard all last week trying
to get a sufficient number of students
to take part. The turn out on Saturday was very commendable. Last year
several instruments were presented to
the Glee Club to form the nucleus of a
Band, at the present time several instruments are lying idle awaiting
players.,gsurely there are still some
students among the student body who
can help out in this phase of college
activity. If so please get in touch with
either the$Bandmaster of the Glee
Club President so that next}week we
will have even a bigger and better
turnout, and thus insure the success of
this recently inaugurated activity. 4

The half line with the addition of
Red Archie” MacDonald were tackling
like Demons, although they did not get
many opportunities to show their

Mt A. vs. Dalhousie Tigers

ALSO

A Good Intermediate Game

ADMISSION—Students 25c.

General 35c.

 

AW DANGE

Nova Scotian Hotel

Wednesday Evening, October 15th, 1930

9 P.M. to2 P. M.

Single $2.50.

 

the ball cleanly, they work very well
together and should with another
week’s practice make a smoothly
working unit to be feared by any
Maritime aggregation.

Several new men were on the Senior

line up Saturday, including Dickie,
Buckley, Stewart, Wallace and Connor,

Connor playing his first) gare in
Senior company showed up well.
Being a ‘‘natural’’ kicker, getting the
ball away cleanly, catching nicely and
tackling hard and true. He never
missed a man during the entire game.

 

Turret Wath Charms?

His driving was all
wrong—but his
cigarettes were all
right — Turrets, of
course — with their
exceptional quality,
smoothness and
flavour.

 

TURRET

mild hae fragrant
Cigarettes

Save the valuabie “POKER HANDS”

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND
The
Halifax Daily Star

The
fastest growing
newspapers in

Nova Scotia

 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

LIMITED SALE OF

 

| BIRKS—

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax.

 

 

 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.

More than two, 20 cents extra.

Covers up to six,

Leather Goods

Portfolios and Loose
Leaf Books, Bags and

Trunks of all kind

and sizes .*. .

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

 

 

TICKETS

OBTAIN YOURS IMMEDIATELY

From one of the following:

G. M. GRAHAM,
R. A. DONAHOE,
J. R. DONAHOE,

 

F. A. MACINTYRE,
J. E. MCLEAVE,
‘HUM’ HARRIS,

ALEX. NICKERSON.

 

 

 
 

- College from which he graduated in

a! es
a en pre tne

-——-—s«* Bachelor of Laws. After having spent

 

  
 
 

 

 

  

Leader Of Nova Scotia
pe Liberals —

Piataise Brings Honor To Law
School

] Mr-Angus C. O. T -C.. Smoker

. MacDo nfald

Featured by an interesting and instructive talk given by Lieut, Colonel

 

 

   
    
   
  
  
  
   
     
    
    
  
  
 
  
   
  
    
    
  
 
   
     
   
   
 
 
  
  
    
  
   
    
    
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
    
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
    
      
          
      

  

has been
elected to
the leadership of
the provincial
Liberal
Party,and
his elevation to
j this re
sponsi ble

position
bet okens.
two facts of importance tothe students
Firstly, this is peculiarly an age of
opportunity for young men and women.
Grey hairs were, not so many years ago
in the Maritimes, a prerequisite for
promotion. The appointment of Mr.
MacDonald, a young man, as leader of
his party cannot fail to serve as an
impetus to students on the threshold of
their careers. They will recognize in
this event that the enthusiasm, vim,
and engergy of young persons are
needed in no less degree than the wise
counsel of older men with their wider
experience. Secondly, hisappointment
manifests, in addition to a personal
tribute to his fine qualities, a recognition of the value of a university training
for leadership in public life. It is not
an accident that Mr. Bennett, Mr.
King, Mr. Harrington, Sir Richard
Squires, Mr. Taschereau, Mr. Ferguson
and Mr. MacDonald have been called
to high office in public affairs. As
Canon Cody so eloquently said in his
address at the opening of the King’s
College buildings, Universities in training men for public service are making a
distinct contribution to the welfare of
the State.”

Angus L, MacDonald, as Cape
Bretoners ever will be ready to assert,
was born in Port Hood where he received his preliminary education. He
then attended St. Francis Xavier

Officer of M. D. No. 6, the C. O, T. C.
smoker held at the Munro Room last.
Wednesday evening was a decided
success. Lieut. Colonel Sparling explained the purpose and work of the
Officers’ Training Corps in the universities of the British Empire, emphasizing that it does not seek to encourage a
warlike attitude, but to insure that
among the leaders of all branches of
national life there will be a number who
have some training in the duties of an
officer. ‘We do not maintain a large
professional army like nearly every
other country; ours is very small. If
the unfortunate necessity should arise,
we would have to depend on our
civilian population for armed defence.
There would be a general mobilization
of all men and industry right from the
start. It is to provide some training
for those upon whom the obligation
of leadership would naturally fall in
such an emergency that the C. O. T. C.
exists in nearly all Canadian universities,” he said. He _ illustrated his
remarks with some interesting and
amusing anocdotes concerning his military experiences in France and Russia.

Motion pictures illustrative of military life were shown, including one of
tanks in operation. ;

The chairman for the evening was
Professor Horace E. Read who has
recently taken over command of the
Dalhousie C. O. T.C. from Major John
S. Roper, M. C. Professor Read
introduced Professor (Captain) A.
Kent Griffin, newly appointed Secondin-command of the unit, who spoke
briefly. He also introduced the other
officers, all of whom passed the examinations set by the British War
Office for the rank of Lieutenant last
Spring with distinction: Lieutenant
Charles E. Stuart, O. C. No. 1 Platoon,
and officer in charge of training.
Lieutenant Charles R. Lowray, O. C.
No. 2 Platoon, and Adjutant. Lieutenant Fayre Chandler, O. C. No. 3
Platoon. Lieutenant Manning Archibald, Weapon Training Officer and
officer in charge of the Dalhousie Rifle
Association.

Beginning this Wednesday, Oct. 8th.,
regular training periods will be held at
the Gymnasium Studley, on Wednesday
evenings from 7.45 to 10.00 P, M. from
now until next March. Occasional
tactical exercises will be held outdoors
at times convenient to the members.

Angus L. MacDonald

Arts with -high honours. He found
time, however, in his undergraduate
days to represent with distinction his
Alma Mater on the gridiron and on the
debating platform. Enlisting in the
early days of the war he proceeded with
the 85th Battalion to France, where he
was known as qulintvepid and gallant
. officer, On his return from oversea
“Mr. MacDonald began the study of law,
in the Law School} and received in 1921:
from the Univetsity the degree of
two years in the Attorney-General’:
_ Department in Halifax, he accepted a
osition on the full-time staff of the
alhousie Law School. His active
services at the School were interrupted
in 1928-29 by a year of post-graduate
work during which yime his scholarly
research in the law of torts well merited
the degree of Doctor of Juristic Science
conferred on him by Harvard University. Every student who has worked
under, and with, Mr. MacDonald
testifies to his knowledge of law and
allied fields, and to his power of exposition, He has contributed articles
to legal periodicals, and he is Assistanteditor of the Dominion Law Reports.
Few men on the teaching staff of the
University in recent years have taken
a more active part in student affairs
than has ‘‘Angus L.’’, for he has been
Coach of the football team and has
served on the Debating Selection
Committee.

It was with regret that colleagues
and students last spring of his resignation from the full-time staff of the Law
School, but their regret was mitigated
when he accepted the position of parttime lecturer in Procedure. His friends
congratulate him upon his appointment,
and, irrespective of party affiliations,
are confident that he will make, in
whatever position he may occupy, a
signal contribution towards the progress
of the Province and the Dominion.
With some justification we, of the Law
School, take pride in the knowledge
that Mr. MacDonald is perpetuating
that distinctive tradition of public
service which Weldon and Russell
founded and fostered in the School.

 

ERNIE RICHARDSON
President of Freshmen Class.

 

 

Council Holds - 
Continued from page 1.

Permission was granted to the Dents
to hold the first dance after Christmas.

The auditors Report came up and
this was passed.

Mr. Don Grant, Freshman Representative talked on Initiation and gave
a report on Freshman week. Mr.
Grant was commended on the satisfactory way in which he handled the
programme.

Dal. vs. Mt. AI.
Sat. October 11

ae EQUIPMENT

if For Good Athletes
Those who demand the
best in Sporting Equip
ment unanimously agree
that our goods cannot be

 

Medical Personals

Dr. C. M. MacKenzie, former
council. member and representative on
the N. F. C. U. S., is doing post
aduate work at certain of the
hospitals in London, Eng.

Dr. Douglas F. MacDonald, a Dalhousie graduate of the class of '29, was
united in marrage to Misss Gladys A.
Root in Brown City, Miclgan on June,
28th. Dr. MacDonald is on the staff
of the Henry Ford Hospital and is
establishing a practice in Detroit.

Dr. Arthur A, Murphy, last year’s
elect to the Malcolm Honour Society,
is now interning at the Montreal
General Hospital.

 

 

  
 

 

Next issue of
Gazette will
be on Tuesday

   
  

H. C. Sparling, D. S. O., General Staff

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

On Wednesday Oct. Ist. the Dalhousie Moot Court Sittings for 1930.
opened with Justices Green, Gaffin,
and Copeland on the bench. Two
cases were up for judgment, one civi
the other criminal.

In the first case one Carouse, who
was ably represented by Cowan and
Cameron, sued one Archey, defended
by Dwyer and Coleman, for damages
for the loss of chattels owing to the
negligence of the defendant. The
opposing counsels succeeded admirably
in befogging the issues. When they
had finished their respective argument’s,
the judges reserved decision.

The criminal case concerned an act,
(quoting Kelly Morton, the prosecutor),
“The equal of which, for heinousness,

has not been seen since 1911."’ The
judges, jury, and spectators were all
equally shocked that such a state of
affairs should exist within the borders
of our fair Alma Mater; and as far as
this report is concerned, the dastardly
villainy shall go nameless. Suffice it
to say that the three wretched perpetrators were new to the traditions of
our noble university. Let us hope that
further sojourn here wil! impress upon
them the enormity of their wrong
doing, and that the well deserved
sentence of the court upon them, to
wit: that they carry the law books upstairs to the library, will discourage
future recurrences of the same scandalous goings-on.

Changes In The
Staff At
Studley

 

The saddest change in the teaching
staff at Dalhousie this year is occasioned
by the death of Dr. Howard Murray.
His place will be filled by Professor E.
W. Nichols. This, in turn, brought
about the appointment of Jock Kent,
who will conduct the classes formerly
belonging to Prof. Nichols. Mr. Kent
is from Kingston, and his father at one
time was President of King’s University.

Dr. Carl C. Coffin, a former Dalhousian, is replacing Dr. Douglas MacIntosh in the Chemistry Department.
Dr. Coffin has recently returned from
Holland, where he went with a Travelling Research Fellowship.

Professor Walker, Bennett and Adshead have returned this year, after
absences of one and two years. Dr.
Max MacQOdru, who was supplying
for Professor Bennett, has accepted a
position on the staff of Queen’s Univer
sity.
In the Commerce Department, a
new lecturer has been appointed.

Ralph W. Ells, of Canning, a recent
B. A. and M. B. A. from Hafvard
has accepted the post.

For the first time at Dalhousie, there
has been appointed a Girls’ Physical
Instructress, whose duties will be to
assist Mr. Stirling as much as possible
by taking over most of the girls’
sports. Miss Florence Harris, of Annapolis, is filling the position this year.
Miss Harris is a recent graduate of the
Physical Education Course givenyat
McGill University. During the summer of 1929, following her graduation,
she was swimming instructress at The
New Pines Hotel at Digby. Last
winter Miss Harris was in Montreal
teaching at the Y. W. C. A., and
several of thé private schools in that
city.

The appointment of such an I[nstructress will be a big improvement
in the working of the Gym, and it will
prove to be an indispensable part of the
girls’ college life. The need has long
been felt for somebody to devote as
much time as would be required, to the
girls’ activities.

As well as her Gym. work, Miss,
Harris is prepared to help in the
Library during rush periods.

—_—_—_—+---e——_—_

Al Cummings is a Radio operator
with Canadian National Steamships.

Frank Forbes is Assistant Lecturer in Cemistry at MacDonald.

Gene See ee.
PERMANENT WAVE
Ringlets Ends $10.00

Regular $15.00 wave for $10.00
on the “‘‘Keen’’ machine
which recently won major
honors at Philadelphia against
the world’s best. No better
wave at any price. Marceling Finger Waving and Bob.
bing.

Shield’s Beauty Parlor

510 ROY BUILDING
PHONE B.6748

    
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

Angus EE MaePonald Is New| Pal. Moot Court |Freshman Week 
Continued from page 1.

A track and field meet held in the
afternoon on the football field.

Organization meeting of the class
was held on Friday morning, with the
election of officers for the coming yeer.
Ernest Richardson of Halifax was
elected president. Miss Frances Foster
of Saint John vice-president; Miss
Margaret Sadler of Chatham as secretary and Russell MacSween of Sybney
treasurer. The executive consists of
Ruth Crandall of Montreal, Wilbur
Fraser of Sydney, and Don Rainnie of
Dartmouth.

Before the meeting, members of the
class were addressed by Professor
Murray Macneill, registrar of the
university and Dr. George Wilson,
dean of the undergraduates.

Following the meeting, the freshmen
were addressed on the Alumni Association by Ronald Fielding, Alumni
representative on the Board of Governors, the freshettes went to Shirreff
Hall where they were addressed on the
Alumnae Association.

The first social gathering of the class
was held Friday evening in the gymnasium. A programme by the Glee
Club was followed by a short dance.

The feature attraction on Saturday’s
Programme was the all day meet for
the Maritime Provinces Interscholastic
Track and Field Championships with
representatives from twenty schools
throughout the Maritime provinces
competing.

The annual Freshman Track and
Field Meet held last Thursday afternoon on the Studley Campus was
featured by the showings of Don
Rainnie of Dartmouth, formerly of

THE BEST OF ‘THE
COLLEGE PICTURES !

“Good News”

Merry Mad Collegians
mixing romance with
astronomy, football with
geometry, songs with
economics
SPARKLING
ENTERTAINMENT!

CASINO

OCTOBER 9, 10, 11
NEXT WEEK

“ATLANTIC”

ORTHOPHONICS
RECORDS, PIANOS,
MUSICAL GOODS
of all kinds
RADIOS and
RADIO COMBINATIONS

Also Fiction Lending Library

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

 

  
     
 

Students !

The next time you want
your laundry finished in
ahurry and want it done
neatly—call the

 

32 BILBY ST. Phone L2331

 

 

 

 

 

Good for You

Recreation in moderation
is always beneficial. That
is why many young people
enjoy visiting a very desirable Lunch and Ic
Cream Parlor <‘s\..*«. «%s

 

The Green Lantern

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES

Home Laundry

 

IN
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.
Write °r call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

October 9th, 1930

Rothesay Collegiate School, Miss Irene
Matheson and Murray Lloy of Halifax.
Rainnie won the high and broad jumps
and the hot put; Lloy captured the
three sprints and Miss Matheson won
the 60 and 100 yards for girls.

The summary—

60 yards (Girls)—I1st I. Matheson;
2nd, R. Crandall. Time—8 secs.

100 Yards (Girls)—1st, I. Matheson;
2nd, M. Jost. Time—13 1-5 secs.

100 Yards (Boys)—I1st, M. Lloy;
2nd, R. Bagg. Time—11 1-5 secs.

12 pound shot—lst, D. Rainnie;
2nd, R. Tapley. Distance—33 feet
5 ins.

220 Yards—Ist, M. Lloy; 2nd, R.
Bagg. Time—26 1-5 secs,

Running High Jump (Girls)—l1st,
R. Crandall; 2nd, M. Jost. Height—
3 feet 7 ins.; Exhibition—38 feet 10 ins.

Running High Jump (Boys)—Ist,
D. Rainnie; 2nd, McDonald. Height
—5 ft. $ in.

440 Yards (Boys)—Ist, M. Lloy;
2nd, McDonald. Time—1 min 1 1-5
SECS,

Baseball throw (Girls)—I1st, F. Foster; 2nd, Miss Ells. Distance—87 ft.
44 ins.

Running Broad Jump (Boys)— Ist,

—17 feet 54 ins.
One Mile Run—lst,

Madeleine 0, Grage

Designer of

Hats

moulded to your head.

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

> IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons
or Dinners.

TELEPHONE B7231

 

GARRICK

FRI. and SAT.
RICHARD ARLEN

IN
The SANTA FE TRAIL

MON. and TUES.
WILLIAM POWELL

IN
‘‘The Shadow of the Law’’}f

WED. and THURS.
GRETA CARBO

IN
ROMANCE

DRUGS

STUDENTS SUPPLIES

MacLeod-Balcom, Ltd

OPPOSITE

AND

 

The Ever Popular Coats for Men.

Camel and Llama Pile
Overcoats

Priced « PIDOO

time !

~
AN see,

OND See ' ‘ x
Se cat

ENCE
SSA

A 4 A 3 ,
RW =

as

slash pockets.

iu

grey and fawn. Ideal for

SS
bo

- BN x

== SES
Pe PS >
“ . eae
¢

Sizes 34 to 44.

—
7
i =
=
oa

 

 

Mens Eatonia Hats
each $9.00

The Hat Department is showing the new arrivals in
EATONIA hats for fall.
smart—snap brims, welt and brown edges.
Sizes 63 to 7.3

4)

Newest shapes that are
Silk lined.

EKatons Main Floor.

EATON

"MA MES

0

 

 

D. Rainnie; 2nd, R. Tapley. Distance

Roper; 2nd,
Archibald. Time 5 mins. 44 secs.

Capitol Theatre Building

 

Come in and have your hat

 

CHEMISTS |

Bank of Nova Scotia

St. Andrew’s Church

Cooler days are approaching — football
Be one of the men who can sitat
a game and watch every play without
being chilled through and through. These
smart coats are of camel pile and Llama
tailored on swagger lines, easy fitting
with large collar and half belted back,
Colors of beaver brown,

motoring.

LIMITED
