_ Important Matters Considered

at Students’

Pane Council

 

‘* y re ey :
: Better method of controlling finances

sc age discussed.

 

Bs -' Twe matters of supreme importance,
mS BELAY instituting of a more efficient

method of controlling finances, and the
I, establishing of a permanent secretary--—s- treasurer, were the chief items of
-_- Husiness transactud at a meting of the
Students’. Council held on Thursday
B.) evening in the Munro Room. The
_—--‘Viee-President, Miss Helen Williams.
____ presided, in the absence of the Presi.
dent, Mr. Denoon who was unable to
be in attendance.

er.
ef) = 2

   
    
  
  
     
       
  
    
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
     
 
 

Bett Ks The first actual business, was i
| adoption of a belated report from the
Business Manager of last years’ Gazette.

He stated that he had managed to
Bebe es: clear up some of the financial obscurities.
and believed the report to be complete

+
<a
7

—- made the following additional grants:
< «$60 to interfaculty hockey: $112 to
| the D. A. A, C. for skating session;
5» + $110 to D. G. A.C. ,
The cnief business of the evening,
was introduced by the presentation ot
an excellent report by Mr. Bob Brown,
Chairman of a committee appointed
to look into the matter of disbursement
and expenditure of student finances.
Mr. Brown informed the Council that
- the committee had examined the system at present in vogue, and had found
it inefficient in many particulars. He
outlined two proposed systems, both
_ undoubtedly superior to the old one
and the first which he presented met
th the favor of all the members.
report was adopted, and a vote of
iks rendered to the Committee.
‘own and the Committee are to
( ue with their work, anc
develop tue acheme in all its phases.
peace pres probably be inugurated.in the Fall.
Mi eit Tic aets connected with the above
--———s eonsiderations, was the matter of the
-_ advisibility of establisning a permanent
~~‘ gecretary-treasurer for the Council.
____ Several of the members with experience,
ss spoke on the matter, which was carefully examined from all angles. The
general agreement seemed to be that
the work of the past and present
Bais, secretaries has been far too heavy, and
ra a great deal of efficiency lost due to the
lack of contiguity produced by the
changing secretaries. It was thought
ee that the present was an opportune time
‘to make such a change, and a motion
__—_~— was unanimously passed to that efiect.
‘This will necessitate an amendment to
the Constitution, notice of which will
be posted in due course.
The report from the Committee
appointed to bring the Constitution
up to date was approved. The Com‘mittee reported progress in their
lengthy task. The following Committec was elected to choose representative
Or representatives for the Maicolm
‘Honour Award: Mr. James Muir,
Miss Kay Hebb, and Mr. Don Grant.
) Several minor items concluded a very
> _ Successtul meeting.

7%

ha}

   
   
  
  
    
  
       
   
  
      
     
   
    
  
 
 

cv a
4 ip.
+
i‘

 

et
4

ae i
>» ’
ie.

 

4 _ After careful consideration, tae Council |

     

 

 

 

 

To Interne in United
States

SINA SINGER
former President of Glee Club
in its active days

 

 

D. A. A. C. Meeting

In the Gym— Thursday
noon. To discuss paid
coach question and
other important matters. Large attendance urged.

 

 

Biology Club
Holds Meeting.

Dr. Ralph Smith gives

interesting Lecture

On Tuesday evening Jan. 20th,
the Biology Club held another of its
interesting meetings. President Charlie
Allen was in the chair, and he introduced the speaker of the evening Dr.
Ralph Smith to the large number of
members present.

Dr. Smith took as the topic of his
interesting lecture, “Biology and. its
relation to Medicine.” He dwelt on
the various types of worms, insects and
organisms and spoke of the discoveries
of the diseases caused by them. He
emphasized the work of the biologist
and parasitolgist, and showed how
these scientists have rendered immense
assistance to medical researches.

It was decided that the Club would
hold an excursion or field trip to some
place of biological interest in the near
future. After the lecture, the members
retired to the biological labratory
where refreshments were served.

 

a Dalhousie Seniors and Intermediates
Be i, meet Wanderers.

 

Games in Gym on Thursday Night— Students

pe bie admitted free.

    
   
    
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
  
      
 

 

ae” On Tuesday, Jan. 20th, Class ‘32,
| held a meeting in Room 4. Charlie
_____ Lorway the president was in the chair.
Most of the class were conspicuous by
_ their absence so that it was almost
impossible to discuss any business.

Class meetings are really becoming
_ mere gatherings of the executive.
qeerely the members of the class ought
to be interested enough to turn out
and take an active part in the affairs
mote business brought before the

eeting concerned the Junior-Senior
Dance, the time and the place. After
some discussion it was decided to
leave the entire matter in the hands of
the Social Committee. The meeting
then adjourned.

rs

many friends of Margaret

jubien a are glad to know ahe

is out again, after her recent illness,

and has once more returved to her
_ duties at Quinpool Rd. School.

F . Dr. MacKenzie, president of the
p University, entertained the officers of

he different societies, at a, delightful
te gS at his home, on Sunday

, an

‘The
Jubiene,

 

 

| Dalhousi: senior and Intermediate
basketball teams entertain the old
rivals the Wanderers at the University
gymnasium on Thursday evening.

At eigat o'clock the University
second team will battle the last year’s
Intermediate title holders, the Wanderers, in an important battle. The
reds have not yet been defeated this
season, and after watcning them perform last week at the gym against.
Kings one of the best games in this
league is expected. While the Dalhousie Intermediates have not been
together long the management expect
them to hand the Wanderers their
first defeat, and with Jack Thomas
and his scarlet troop also determined
to continue their winning streak, this
fixture should provide plenty of fireworks.

At nine the Wanderers Senior make
their initial bow into the Studley gym.
Considerable stronger than last season
this team will give the wearers of the
Dalhousie uniiorm plenty of work
for the forty minutes during the game.
Being only defeated by three points
in their first game against the Y. M. C,
A., the Wanderers have been working
hard in preparation of Thursday night
game and expect to give our team a

close game,

Official Student Publication at Dalh

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 28ru, 19381.

Sodales Favours the Paid Coach
Idea-- Excellent Debate.

Audience although rather small was representative—
large number of speakers spoke from the floor.

 

On Wednesday evening Jan. 21 at
Sodales, the following resolution was
debated, ‘‘Resolved that this house deprecates the introduction of a profcssional coach into University sport.”
This resolution was supported by Don
Finlayson and Miss Margeson and
opposed by Gordon Cooper and Miss
Helen Williams. This resolution was
a timely one and brought forward a
problem for discussion that is designed
to be decided and acted upon at some
date in the near future. The crowd
although small was representative and
contained many of the leaders in the
athletic activity of Dalhousie University. It seemed a pity that such
thought stirring speeches and interesting arguments on such an important
subject should be given before such a
small gathering.

The speakers onthe resolutior spoke
in part as follows:

Miss Margeson: In opening the case
for the affirmative defined a professional
coach as one that did nothing but
coaching as distinguished from the
coach and part time lecturer in other
Maritime Universities. Also that professionalism in coaching led to professionalism in athletics. This would
lead eventually to defeating the primary
object of a university, the imparting of
knowledge. Also that in recent years
there had been a departure from the
professional coach system, as examples
Eneland and McGill Universities. Miss
Margeson further substantiated her
arguments by givins a short history of
athletics at Dalhousie.

Gordon Cooper: Opening the case
for the negative stated that it was a
fallacy in reasoning to say that professional coaches led to professionalism
in sport. What led to professionalism
in sport was the unhealthy public
press and the gate clicking public.
The United States was an example of
this. Many of the arguments advanced by the leader of the affirmative
came in for a great deal of criticism,
especially the one concerning Dalhousie’s past recordin the athletic field.
Mr. Cooper saw no renson why Dalhousie could not do better and that
there was only one reason why Dalhousie with her nine hundred students,
did not hold supremacy over the other
Maritime Colleges in athletics and
that reason could be attributed to the
absence of a professional coach. Also
a professional coach would provide the
means whercby many more could enjoy
games and have a knowledge of how to
play them. Also that the participation in athletics developed personality
as well as physical benefits to those

who engaged in their respective games| dents.

Don Finlayson.

mind. suggested the problem of how are
we going to pay for this coach. He
suggested that the money which would
be spent in paying for the coach would
be spent to better advantage in buying
extra equipment that more might take
advantage of the athletic facilities.
Also that a professional coach would
not make any great improvement in the
various teams. Also as a coach was
paid to produce winning teams, scholastic activities would be regulated to the
background. :

Miss Helen Williams. Rebutted the
arcument of Mr. Finlayson on the
money problem, by saying that the
debate was not one of finance but
whether or not Dalhousie should have
a professional coach. Then Miss Williams went on to show-that there was
a reat need for a full time paid coach
at Dalhousie. For most part the
coachine of the various teams is done
either by a graduate or a senior student.
Although in no way depreciating the
work of these men, there are many
reasons why this method is not satisfactory. The graduates*have not time
and the student coaches on account of
their studies cannot give the teams the
attention that they require. Also in
instances a student coach has not the
authority of a paid professional coach.

At the close of the speeches the
following spoke from the floor: Raymond MacCarthy, Walter MacKenzie.
Robert Kanigsberg, Frank Duxbury,
Bob Baird, Tom Goudge, Jerry Stewart,
Phil Magonet. Irwin ‘aylor and Copp.
All these speeches were of a high order
and judging by the numbers who spoke
the resolution was a timely one,

Gordon Cooper in closing the case
for the negative corrected the impression gained by some from his first
speech—tnat paid coaches would develop personality, but that personality
and judging by the numbers who spoke
more and better athietics under the
careful supervision of a capable coach,
Also that the winning team stressed
so much by the affirmative would not
be the goal, but that each player on the
respective teams would play the best
game that it was possibie tor him to
play.

Don Finlayson reaffirmed his previous contentions that Dal did not
have the money to pay a coach and
that the introduction ot a coach would
lead to professionalism. Also that he
would not have time to spend on interfacuity sport and theretore there was
little gained bv getting or paving for a
coach.

The audience vote wns in favor of the
negative. So come on Dalhousie stuSodales has declared that we

This worthy son of| need a professional coach if we are to
the law school further substantiated| hold our own in athletic circles.

This

the arguments advanced by his fair! question will be turther discussed on
colleague. And being of a sea Thursday at the D,. A. A. C, meeting.| Williams and Gordon Cooper.

Class Party draws
Small Crowd.

The Green Lantern was the scene on
Wednesday night last, of what was
supposed to be a class party, put on by
the classes $1, 32, 65. ‘Lhe party was
a success for the people who went, but
right there is the hitch, very few
people went. Can anyone who has
been to any of the parties that were
thrown two or three ycars ago by
Classes 2¥ and 40 imagine a class party
‘with eighteen coupies? ‘hey used to
have twice as many as that and they
weren't combine either. ‘Whink of it!
An average of six couples from cach
class. And they call that a class
party. Oh me! As they say in the
dear old Gazette so often ‘‘What has
happened to dear old Dalhousie?”

Anyway, 2%, or*sU would not have
permitted a perfectly good dance like
this one was, to go to waste. Because
it Was a good party. ‘There is not a
doubt about that. The floor was not
too crowded (and How). The refreshments and punch were nicely
served and well appreciated by the
crowd. Joe Mills and his Serenaders
put on as good music as has ever been
{heard at a class party, and that’s good
music to say the least. Because some
pretty good music has been doled out
to the student's at their parties, at
times. Mrs. Murray MacNeil was
the chaperone of the evening.

Among those present were, Dorothy
Rosier, Francis Foster, Mary Currie,
Jane Smith, Frances Hart, Nora Connolly, Lillian Sadler, Ann Bell, Margaret Foley, Margarct Briggs, Mary
Allen, Constance Soulis, Helen Soulis.
Laurie Hart, Charlie Stanfield, Arthur
Pattillo, Bobbie McLellan, Irne Mc,
Lellan, Dick Squires, Davy Stewart.
Jim Cox, Wilfred Dauphinee, Jack
Candow, Lauchie McDonald, Gordon
Harris, Bob Donaace, Bill Jost, J. A. Y.
McDonald, Ed. Archibald, Gordon
Silver, R. T. LeBlanc, Doug Seely,
West Bedwin, S. W. Archibald, Jim
Gray, Freddie McLellan, Drummie
Eaton,

 

 

  

seen

——————$—$—$——————————LK————————

Pine Hill Notes

The vacancy left by Mr. Watson
Sodero has been fuiled by Mr. Koss
Wrignt, wno was recently chosen
“Deacon” of the top oor, Uid Buiiding
At the time of writing no demand has
been made upon Mr. Wright's abuities
aS a peacemaker, Dut we have been
intormed py a resident of the tloor in
question that the tension is very, v.ry
high, and that onty a vocal duet by
Messrs. Price and King (Jr.j is required
to precipitate Mr. Wright's domain
in the throes of a bloody civil war.

Last Thursday night a Pine Hill
hockey team defeated the Maritime
Business College team by a score ot
1-V. Haroid Marsten arranged the
game and organized the locai team.

 

Pine Hill College will enter a triangular basket-bau jeague this winter
with teams trom Mount Allison and
Acadia. Deak Dickson is basketbail
manager.

Last Monday the Residence had as
guest at dinner, Mr. W. H. Sedgewick.
pastor ot the Metropolitan Church of
Toronto and Chairman of the Board of
Home Missions. Dr. Sedgewick, who
was introduced by Dr. Ciarence McKinnon, gave a short address. The
writers was seated at one of the most
distant tables, and being unable to
hear either of the aforementioned
gentlemen, could only judge Dr.
Sedgewick by the quality of the dinner.
At Pine Hill, the tood is an important
index to the importance of the guest
and we would suggest that in future
this face be mentioned in each invitation that every worthy stranger may
do himself justice. ‘‘Stranger,’”’ by
the way cannot be applied to Dr.
Sedgewick; for he is an “‘Old Boy” of
the class of ’01.

Robert Donald and Arthur Ormiston
will represent Valhousis in the coming
intercollegiate debate. Pine Hill congratulates her orators.

ousie University

NN ee ed

 

  
  
    
  
 
   
  
    
    
 
    
   
   

 

 

Presided at Radio
Debate

 

DONALD GRANT, B. A.,
the energetic President of the
Sodales and N. F. C. U. S.

Representative.

 

Newman Club Show

under auspices of Glee
Club—Monday Night,
February 2nd.

 

 

Sodales Holds
Radio Debate.

Under auspices of the
University Radio Extension System

On Friday evening last, Jan. 23rd.
under the auspices of the University
Radio Extension System, Sodales put
on the second debate of the year over
C,H. N.S. The subject was the same
that was debated at Sodales in the
Munro Room on Wednesday night and
was “Resolved that the House Depercates tne Introduction of a _ Protessional Coach with Athletics at the
University’’. The speakers upholding
the affirmative were Doris Margeson
and Donald Finalyson; negative Helen

 

No. 12

Little Theatre
Movement to
present “‘An

Evening of
Barrie.”’

President of Glee Club
manages to find time
to appear in show.

The Little Theatre Movement, which
had its inception last year, and which
was supported by lovers of drama, is
now rehearsing for ‘‘An Evening of
Barrie.’’ These plays will be presented at the Nelson Hall on Thursday
January 29. k

The programme for their second
production will consist of three plays
by that famous and favourite play
wright, Sir James Barrie, The first
play will be “The Twelve Pound
Look’’—Mr. J. A. Hammerton in
his book on Barrie says: ‘There

probably never was, and never will be
a better one act play than ‘The Twelve
Pound Look”, a masterpiece of stage
technique and sympathetic understanding, it contains in its brief space as
much humour and sentiment as ‘have
served many a competent dramatist
for a_ full length comedy.” ‘The
New Word’’—the second play is from
‘Echoes of the War’’—a collection of
four plays—the best known of which,
‘Barbara’s Wedding’’, was given last
year. It is a deftly written sketch
showing any British father in the intedsely emotional atmosphere of the
night preceding his son’s departure for
France. The third play, ‘Shall We
Join the Ladies?” is a mystery play—
the solution of which will kept the
audience guessing for some time.

_ The casts for the above productions
include: Aileen Macaulay, Allison*Petch, Marie Ackerman, Ruth Macaulay,
Bessie Macdonald, Margaret Mackey,
Mary Hall, Hazel Todd, Florence
Hewatt, Ruth Chisholm, Isabel Wood,
Ralph Morton, Graham Allen, Richard
Donahoe, Richard Squires. Clyde Douglas, Stewart Macdonald, Victor Oland,
John MacQuarrie, Leonard Tilley,
Robert Innman, and others. Misses
Madeline Page and Isabel. McNeil are
also instrumental in presenting these
plays, as is Barney Archibald.

It is hoped that all the students will
attend these plays. There is little
opportunity for seeing legitimate drama
in Halifax—support of the Little
Theatre Movement will mean more and

better plays!
———_—_>->_______
James MacIntosh, Commerce ’33.

performed a ‘heroic feat on Tueday
last when he saved the life of a young
boy who was almost drowned in the
North West Arm.

 

President of Civil Service Com
mission gives Lecture.

Deals with developments and progress in this
department—on equal footing with that of
any other country.

Dalnousie was very fortunate in
having Mr. Phaien, President of the
Civil Service Commission to give a
1ecture on the Civit Service in Canada.
A number of students attended and
enjoyed it immenseiy and undoubtedly
earned Many things.

Mr. Phaien began by saying that
the Civil Service in Canada is divided
into forty-six branches which are in
charge of Ministers of the Crown
whose positions are not stationary.
beiow these are the deputy ministers
who are the permanent heads of the
dierent departments and whose word
for internat affairs is final. The deputy
minister is of great service to the
minister he is tamiiiar with his department of government and gives
advice to the senior minister which is
always gratefully received.

In 1lyuv8 under Sir Wiifred Laurier,
the Civil Service Act was passed which
based entrance into the Scrvice on the
merit system, The hind of appointment depends upon the examination
the candidate wrote and positions
were given ir order of merit,

in 1918 the questions of inefficency,
appointements, promotion, retirement
under which would come superannuation and pensions were |-ft in the hands
of a Civil Service Commission

In the government there are 44,000
full time employees and about 38,000
are under Civil Service but, 11,00 of
these people are at Ottawa and the
remaining 34,000 scattered around the
country. These 44,000 do not include
the Railway employees of which there
are about 67,000 and so it is seen that
the Civil Service gives a great many
people permanent positions,

In closing, Mr. Phalen said that the
Civil Service in Canada is on equal
footing with that of any other country,
a fact of which we may well be proud.

SS tab on

 

Engineering
Notes

The Engineers held their first hockey
practice last Thursday from 1 to 2.
A large turnout attended and the
practice was a thorough success
Manager Fisher was pleased with the
work of those attending and _ said
from such material, a championship
team should be the result.

ee

The Engineers are howling over the
result of the drawing up of the Interfaculty League. In the first place a
notice of the managers meeting was
posted in the Arts building completely
hidden from view by scores of other
notes. Secondlv if the league is drawn
up where is the schedule and where are
the games to be played? These are
questions the Engineers would like
adswered.

Professor (to Engineering Student):
My boy, it gives me the greatest of
pleasure to be able to give you 95 in
this subject.

Student (very dumb): Why not give
me 100 Sir and enjoy yourself!

— s+.

Herbert Fener, L. L. B. '29, better
known as ‘Temp’ to Dalhousians, has
secured the post of third secretary to
the Department of External Affairs.

 

Miss Elizabeth Murray, Arts ’32,
spent the week-end in Windsor, the
guest of her uncle Mr. E, Ryan.

James Mitchell, L.L. B. '28, has
been admitted to the Quebec Bar,

 

 
‘vad i

ee

|
me: ea)
t a a s
1a rt ose if
Pea
4 ‘ eh AD Pye

a a
‘a* 4
|
a ee
i
1

ay

 

ae
4 j

M4
on

Re
}
yf

A

i Silay
ey

Phe

aes are suggested. First, that the time has come when in the ecOn
. we ig \
a ' i
ee

a

| ‘the future. Officials of the great Canadian banks have expressed

ta.

opinions in statements of annual meetings issued recently. Heads

vi

, e
P
Pe
"

be

aM ‘f

DALH

USIE

|Something to
Argue About
(A column inviting comment and con| ss broversy).
The Decline of Dalhousie’s Student

; ctivities.
T The Prospective President.
- Managing Editor: Education vs. Propaganda.

A. GORDON COOPER
8.2148, ’

P hie ; ¥ te a ra ney ao i f : ts ‘
1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”
f 2h : ny w ‘ f s Pe i % a ; a

. « 1

There is an old weather-beaten saying to the effect that constant dripping
will eventually wear away the hardest
stone. We hope this is as true from a
human standpoint as it is from a
geological one. For Certainly the
crust of apathetical indifference which
has settled upon the student body at
Dalhousie, is tougher by far than anything in Toshie’s lab, and we feel
sanguine enough to drip a few critical
remarks on it again. Not long ago, a
well-known professor told us that he
failed to see any sparks of intellectual]
life or intelligent interest among the
‘students. ‘‘The whole lot of them,”
he said, ‘are dead from the neck up.”
And we could not deny the force of his
judgement. It is perfectly true that
the foundation of Dalhousie’s student
activity is being eaten away by the
'dry-rot of /aisse faire, and the attitude
of ‘‘Let George do it.’’ A few persons
are forced to do nearly everything, and
most persons are doing nothing. Ex‘cept perhaps to feebly complain or
criticize. The majority of students
are too lazy and unwilling to assume
even a slight responsibility. They
squirm out of it somehow, and leave
the job to somebody else. Look at our
activities. Attendance at Sodales is
disgraceful. The Glee Club is all shot.
The Editor of the Gazette has to fairly
get down on his knees and beg for contributions to the paper. Hockey and
basketball receive little support. No
one ever attends Studert Council
meetings save the members themselves.
To say the least, this isn’t playing the
game, And any fair-minded student
who sits by without making an effort
to assist, is just a quitter. That’s our
storv, and we stick to it.

A COUDGE,
__-T.. A, GOUDGE, _
T.D MACDONALD,
THOS. CRAWFORD,
DORIS MARGESON.
STRAT Sports Editor:
F. R. DUXBURY.

News Editors:
CHARLES MILLER,
aT DOUGLAS GIBBON,
be WTS ROBERT KANIGSBERG,
i” Be’ ELIZABETH MURRAY.
se ee Nee EARLE GOLDBERG,
Business Munager:

d) - - Jv R: DONAHOE,
‘ — S.4086 J. MN ‘! ;

Asst. Business Manager:
DONALD MAHON,
L 2074

‘ =D BY WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. S.

ECONOMIC DEPRESSION.
. Nee? ‘The economic depression from which the world is at present
suffering has produced a flood of speculation as to its causes and

~ suffering ( spect aS
-_- yemedies., with a view to the prevention of similar occur: nces in

of insurance companies have drawn attention to what they consider causes and cures for the ills of depression. Business men and
ee editors of the daily press have filled columns with their views and
comments. The “quack economists,”’ as one financial paper labels
them, are crying for the purchase of prosperity by more buying.
They aie apparently oblivious to the fact that indi criminate buying
serves only to encourage economic waste and discourage the
accumulation of capital through saving, which is after all the

Dee foundation of enterprise. The more responsible economists and

/ a usiness men believe, however, that radical changes must be made
ot the economic structure to ensure a permanence of normal development. Mr. C. E. Neill, Vice-President of the Royal Bank of
Canada, states that the general price drop, bringing misery in its
wake, may be attributed to an under-supply of money due to
a Meno icies of the central banks of some countries. He asserts “if
the central banks of all the countries on a gold basis should de.
- liberately adopt a common policy they could within a certain time
Pet) Belo d | Ba lower the price level almost at will.’’ He calls for
on, Mi. T. B. Macaulay een a te Sun
Lite Assurance Co. of Canada sugges that the Federal Reserve
ae i of Ee tmcea States, who hold 40% of the world’s gold.
Et id purchase Government bonds to the amount of half a billion
yayment for which would go into circulation directly,
asis for an extension of credit by commerial banks.
would prices be raised, since it is axiomatic that the more
mon Saal credit) there is available the higher prices will be in

if tthe.
ae tre
a we %

are -aflected by the increased money or credit. The Wall
Out of the situation so briefly outlined above two conclusions

i

Considerable speculation is current
regarding the choice of a new president
for the University. The names of
many outstanding men both in Canada
and in the United States have been
mooted in discussions, and _ several
unfounded rumours have come into
circulation. At the time of writing
however, no definite selection has been
made. and we are all waiting the news
with eager interest. Whoever is chosen
to occupy the position so efficiently
held by Dr. MacKenzie, must needs be
of suberb calibre if he would measure
up to the high standard set by his predecessors. For he comes to Dalhousie
at the beginning of an importa t epoch
in her career. The diligent labours and
slf-sacrificing endeavours of her past
presidents have established the foundations of the University on the solid bed
}rock of intellectual achievements and
service to the public weal. The next
two decades must see the superstructure completed, and the whole edifice
mature in all its parts. Undoubtedly
Dalhousie will continue to enrol more
students every year. Undoubtedly
too, new departments will have to be
created, and old ones enlarged and improved, as the University develops.
The faculty will have to be replenished
from time to time, also, for, the old
soldiers whose long march is over, must
be replaced by young recruits. And
the new men must be able to carry on
with the efficiency of their forebears.
All these problems will fall upon the
shoulders of the new president, as they
fell on the stalwart shoulders of Rev.
McCulloch, Rev. Ross, Rev. Forrest,
and Dr. MacKenzie. But he will
always have the work of these men to
serve aS an inspiration and a guide.
This alone should be a great assistance.

It is at once interesting and disconcerting to note how easily we are all
influenced by propaganda. Never before in the history of the world has
such widesbread use been made of this
powerful and insidious force. The
advertising in our popular magazines
and on our radio, is propaganda pure
and simple. Our politics is rotten with
it. Even religion is sometimes debased
byit. And now propaganda is entering
the field of education. One of the
many phases of this, can be seen
clearly in the countless number of
advertisements of books, high-school
courses, college courses, etc, served up
to the public in magazines and newspapers. We read for example, that one
firm of publishers have, “Compressed
A College Education Into Five Feet
For Your Bookshelf,’ or that, “By
Reading Fifteen Minutes A Day, You
Will Be Able To Associate With The
Big Men At The Top Who Do Real
Things.” Usually some vivid illustration accompanies these bursts . of

»
F
\*

i
rth
ft

lag, raise or lower
shay” nternation al action.

eo
Journal endorses this plan.

-_ 6mic world international consideraticns must replace those de
signed to promote a national self-sufficiency. No nation can
- pursue an independent economic policy. For example the action
of the United States and France in hoarding gold has produced
a widespread shortage of money with a consequent drop in the
world price level producing disastrous consequences, from whi h
they themselves are notimmune. International action in the
economic sphere will be followed by an international political

- life unknown today. As Sir Josiah Stamp has truly said, “when

_ we look at politics to day we find that at bottom practically
all political questions are economic.’’ Secondly, a tremendous
sphere of usefulness is open to the student pursuing economic
studies. There are many and varied problems to be solved in this

- field, and on the proper solution of them rests future prosperity
and happiness. Opportunity is here for highly-trained service.
The complex economic structure of today demands international
co-operation and very study for a proper handling of its basically

important functions.
so THE MARITIME UNIVERSITIES —

The St. John Telegraph-Journal recently published comparative registration figures of the various Maritime colleges as at the
- eommencement of 1931. Numbers in attendance since 1927 are
compared with the latest figures and it.is found that the cause of
higher education has been attracting more and more students
during the past few years. Dalhousie heads the list with a registration of 969 as compared with 748 in 1927. Numbers registered at
King’s show a notable increase between 1930 and 1931, due no
doubt to increzsed facilities. On the other hand St. Francis
Xavier had a registration of 396 at the first of 1930 while the
figure given at the same date in 1931 is only 276. A substantial
increase of 559 students in attendance at the nine universities PRG Oe Gi ictt. ‘casce. hoe
_ mentioned has been registered in the last four years. S eeSD pebsuaice “ia tone.
Bes. h-Journal ts editorially on these fi You Can Have Twenty Of The Werle
_~~—~—~—s- The Telegraph-Journal comments editorially on these figures : wenty Of The World’s
__ stressingthe fact that they show an increasing appreciation of the re is eee et Pally
a, | iieneuts of higher education in the Maritime Provinces. Accord-| we learn that, “The First Ten Lessons
ing to the editor of the paper mentioned this is a healthy sign] Are A Shortcut To Education.” All

.--- i @ . . . * . hot
“.... .SitiCce ollege education helps the right-minded | this is propaganda of the most vicious
‘since the acquiring of a colleg Pp 8 type, and its effect on an uneducated

‘ b a student to get more out of life. mind is dangerous. However, it proahs bably does not harm the college student

ete RY hi si}
rs These figures relate only to number of students enrolled.| to any great extent,
But there is one species of propa
1 There is the more pertinent question as to whether there has been
-__ an increase in the value of courses and degrees in the Maritime] ganda which enters into universities,
___- Universities enumerated. At Dalhousie there have been many eg should be on our guard against
-: va e x nges in staff since 192”. but on the whole, with no loss biMledical Gummer! Dhich ehocs
i ee quality. Scholastic standards are certainly as high noW,| itself in an almost irresistible temptaif not highe:, than four years ago. A new faculty has been added | tion on the part of the educator to conto the university while the professional schools have been strengt-| vert students to his own particular
a Spt by increases in staff. The march on the academic side has} C4-*" fvom reas ae et. ie a
____ been forward even as the number of students enrolled have increas-| infected with a sort of epidemic itch
he aa . Reports emanating from the other leading Maritime Univer-| to persuade people to think the same
sities would indicate that a similar advance is taking place in those 4s vii do. a professors are as prone
centres of education. So it may be stated that the Maritime! ‘9. 4 “ve qness as anybody. How
/ ad ae Get te ee a ee ‘ ; ; , ur worthy teachers
_ people are en. the importance of education, while thei: expounding. ga gqoenelitveth: what is
stitutions of learning are ever seeking to improve their instruc-, merely their own personal opinion.
ee ee ame Ce weet A How rarely do we hear them expoundBigP h Var ae Mpa UAC BAS Sey Re ing fully and completely views which
A A ee mn9405 Waaytar!t it UTA 1 ye dS : \
~ta 2," welkee'y i ae i

ay .
‘I

‘ay
:
&

ae

ye _
hy i

f A:
lee
F 
‘ P

Cra
14 PR
a

wa at? i fb , Ln eR! rae ‘ f
» iL Sad . LA Beat if wht i Ee ; ar oF di \
a me Sak gt ees, a wt
> ALTA) i 5 * 4 i? a4 Cos

aut) g iG
Ay f apes I}
a ‘i 7
“!

Ba

Canadian College|Campus |

Comment

REVIVE THE GLEE CLUB

McGill University has recently revived her Glee Club. The following
from the McGilt Daity is most appropriate at this hour when we have
cause to fear that our own Dalhousie
Glee Club, till this year most alive,
is to be naught but a faint, sweet dream,

It has long been a pleasant fiction of

Observer

Guess who observer’ saw on the
North West Arm last week? Give up?
Well it was Prof. Wamsley. Talk
about skiis being the last word, well
you should have been there. A few
strides and tnenvour Dalhousie Einstein would sit down on the ice and
moan how tired his poor legs were.
Just another case where the coefficient
of friction is a wee bit too much for our

those who really know college life—| theoretical professors.

scenario writers and the like—to show
“the boys’’ standing around the piano

Charlie Clarke, first year Law

each man’s arms around his neighbour’s| student, has indeed won for himself the

shoulders. With tears rolling down
their cheeks they operate on some of the
old favourites, usually in close harmony.

Co-education, if there are many
things to be said for it, has been the
ruin of glee singing. Thirty yearsago
students could manage to amuse themselves for an evening without the interference of women, and the result
was a series of choruses for male voices.
Now, we have lost our independence.
We invite women everywhere, being
no longer able to entertain ourselves.
In these mixed gatherings the men
are far too dignified to sing and the
girls cannot be persuaded to chime in
with baritone voices. To this depth
has sunk glee singing.

If the glee club is to find a permanent
place on the campus it must serve as
an outlet for those who like to take part
in glee singing and as place of entertainment for those who wish merely to
listen. We hope that in the not too
far distant future the Glee Club will
make spontaneous renditions of ‘‘Sweet
Adcline” respectable again,

TO CRAM OR NOT TO CRAM.

We are almust forced to cry. “hear,
hear!’’ to this very eloquent and
rather lengthy discourse on cramming,
from the Mississippi Reflector. ‘‘Almost,’’ we said ‘‘Almost.”

Don’t let anyone talk you out of
cramming.

For years we have heard ‘‘don’t
cram—don't cram”’ and we went right
on cramming. And for several reasons
we do not regret it. The first of these
is that when the time to use a bit of
knowledge comes, it makes rot one
particle of difference whether you
learned that bit the moment you were
born or the night before you need it
—as Icng as you have learned it. In
systematic cramming you will invariably find hits of knowledge—veritable
gems—that you have overlooked or
that had completely escaped your
memory,

Last year a test on cramming was
conducted at one of the larger schools
of the country. One half of the class
—and not a selected half —was informed that a quizz in certain subject would
be given the next day. The other
half was kept in ignorance. When
the papers were graded, the results
revealed that the portion that had been
informed displayed a tremendously
greater amount of knowledge than the
portion that was not informed. Not
satified with this test, the instructor
gave a test covering the same part of
the course several weeks later with the
result that the ones who were informed
at first’ again made by far the higher
mark.

Let no one misunderstand us. We
are not advocating the putting off of
study until the last moment and then
learning enough to pass the exam the
night before. That can not be done
in other than exceptional cases. Nor
do we say one should study until the
small hours of the morning on the eve
of an examinaticn,. But we do say
cram.

Get your books down and comb
them systematically. Absorb all the
knowledge you can.You will need
it some day.”

— --— —~<}-—-e-—___ —_—

THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS
CONTINUED.

At the last meeting of the Students
Council it was passed that in future
years there should be a permament
secretary-treasurer of that body. This
is most decidedly a progressive step in
the right direction. If the council
continues to carry out a campaign of
reform the days of foolish wasting of
the students finances will most certainly come to an end. But not before
it should. We have no idea of the
amount of money that has been wasted
simply because of our poor system
which prevented the fixing of reponsibility. At the same time when
the council are contemplating reform
they do not want to make the mistake
of going too far in the other direction.
By that I mean that they should be
careful that they do not introduce so
much red tape into their system that
it will be necessary to get about three
signatures to a voucher for a bag of
oranges. In _ considering reform in all
things it is much better to be practical
than to be idealistic.

are contrary to their own. How
frequently do we ourselves adopt the
professor’s attitude, and uncritically
accept his version without properly
examining the other side. Of course,
one may say that this is only a human
weakness, but, neverless, it is a type of
propaganda. And propaganda is nof
education. The educator is interested
in how people think, the propagandist
is only interested in what they think.
That is, he is not really interested in
education at all. He wants people to
close their minds on certain problems.
The real educator wishes to establish
an open mind. He desires that each
student should examine every side of
every question, before drawing any
conclusion. He can only succeed in
this. if the students themselves beware
of propaganda.

cognomen, “Illustrating Charlie.” It
all happened this way. History of
English Law is by no means the most
interesting class in the University, so
up comes Charlie and decides to liven
it up. And he certainly did. After
answering a question set him, by talking for about six minutes, he asked the
lecturer if he would like an example or
rather a number of examples to
illustrate his point better. Well, after
ten or twelve minutes of examples, and
the lecturer still finding Charlie rarin’
to go, he called the game off with
Charlie declared the winner.

Did you ever notice the clock in the
Library is usually five minutes ahead
of time. Observer is told that this is
done purposely so that you may get to
your classes that much earlier, so,
don’t let them fool you.

Guess what came to light the other
day? One of tne Frat boys showed
Observer a baby photo of none other
than Fat MacKenzie. Can you imagine it? Observer hardly recognized
him for the fellow must have been terrible undernourished, for he was so
small he only weighed nine pounds.
Imagine Fat weighing only nine
pounds! Guess that’s one on Ripley.

Campus Observer drifted into the
gym the other day and talked to Mr.

Stirling. The poor fellow seems very)

despondent these days now that girl’s
sports and he are separated. To make
up for this, he has started a Professors
Team which is to enter the Interfaculty Basketball League. Among
those who will play are Murray Rankin,
Jock Kent, Big Jim McDonald, Ralph
Ells, and Stirling. It is mooted far
and wide that prof er beg pardon, Dr.
Todd will be their cnief spare man—
but on second thought he has his own
wav of getting around things.

All copies of last week's Gazette
were compietely gone the first two days
of their appearance. It seems that
most of the readers became poetically
inclined for some reason or other,
After all, poetry hath its charms.

Don’t the notice boards remind you
of patchwork quilts only that the
notices aren’t so profusely variegated.
Still, it wouldn’t be a bad idea if the
antique notices were taken off so that
it would be an ordinary task to read
the latest bulletins.

+

Talk about your economic depressions, it seems that no such thing exists
at Dalhousie. All day long there is a
continual line waiting to buy Polar
Pies at the Tuck Shop, First thing
you know you hear a swish and an
empty carton hits the side of your face.
Gieat joke isn’t it?

The reason they called the Commerce
Dance the Millionaires Ball is that you
nave to be a millionaire before you can
afford to go. And speaking of tue
dance, ‘tis said that they are going to
have a Ballot Dancer. Oo! La, Lal.

fi > %.

Ps
ive i

fig! « .

January 28th, 1987

’ Phrcagk tha
Looking Glass

A Matriomonial Bureau.
Class Parties.

What a hope.

Glee Club.

Permament Secty-Treas.

The Gazette is considering very
seriously the idea of founding a matrimonial bureau. This idea has been
more or less forced upon us by thc many
stories and noetry that we have received lately and which have caused
some excitement among the members
of the student body. Already. we
understand that a member of one of
the prcefessional schools is anxious.to
meet a certain person who rumour has
heen responsible for some of the above
mentioned writings. And this week
we are publishing an article on the
great question of love that certainly
reads as if it came from the pen of one
afflicted with the disease. Well, dear
readers, just bring your troubles to
this paper and we will try to iron them
out for you to your satisfaction. Together with this fixit bureau we will
run an introductory bureau so pick the
one you want to meet and we will do
the rest.

The class party held last week in the
Green Lantern wasvery poorly attended,
What is the trouble? Four years ago
classes always were able to have
separate parties and draw large crowds.
They were strictly informal. Then the
idea of having combined parties creeped
in, But they at least drew large
crowds. This last party certainly
shows clearly that the day of the successful class party is over. What has
ruined them? I think the whole
trouble lies with those in charge. For
some reason they are unable to discriminate as to what parties should be
formal and what parties should be informal. The large dances at the Hotels
should mo t certainly be formal program dances but these little class
affairs should be as informal as possible.
There should not be such things as
programs, This would enable a person
to drop in at any time during the evening without feeling that they would be
unable to get any dances. A few paul
jones and tag dances as well as some
novelties would also help to pep up the
crowd. In my opinion a few attempts
like that and the class party would
assume the rightful place that it used
to hold in the life of the college. As it
is now they might just as well be done
away with.

We understand that one cf the professors has been discussing the formation of partnerships with members of
the other sex as the silent’ partner.
The idea might be alright but where
can he find the girl to be the silent
partner? As one person said ‘there
ain't no such animal.”

X
We understand that the executive of —

the Glee Club have worked out a most
ingenuous defence regarding their laxity
this year. Thisisit. Last year there
were quite a few shows and lots of
criticism. So this year we will fool
them and not put on any shows and
then there will be no opportunity for
criticism. In the meantime we want
to know what they are doing with that
$700 they got to put on so many shows
this year. If they can’t get up enough
energy to put them on why not use the
money for rink nights or something?
After all it is our money and we should
get something out of it. Formerly the
Glee Club was our most active society,
it was a means of gathering all the
students and many of the staff together.
Now we never see anything of Dr. Todd
and Herbie Stewart—that alone is
something which should be rectified,
A little action by the Glee Club executive or by the Students Council to
whom it is responsible,

HOME-LIKE MEALS

A Neighbourhood Restaurant
famous for GOOD COOKING

and Home-like

Parry’s

surroundings

Restaurant

94 Seymour St., Cor. Coburg Road

We Cater to Students Especially

as

—_———— —— -——,

a new shipment of wool hase in
brogue style showing a nice diamond effect and in a wide range

of colors - - - regularly priced

at $1.00-----now

19 cts.

Shanes Men’s Wear
Shop

ee bet aA
e a! a"
aie tsa ew
J ee dae

———

> tame
ae

bd

load . ?

y : » "h wl

i . pak ‘ my — A
wieitigta ! Wate

a

30 Spring Garden Road

Sse

0 SS

- - Halifax

———————__ i

Sy

 
 
   
   

- #t_ will eventually produce the highest
type of oe be gi fem, Seana) =
alone can man’s happiness be definitely
eee ; and that by its aid the
dream of Utopia can be made a reality.
- Whether gel faith will ever be vindicated, time alone will tell. There is,
however, one influence not provided
by modern education, which is of paramount importance for every developed
ss eivilization, anc
et er soot namely culture.
Tie ae BE ittle difficult to indicate ex
  
  

 
     
  
 
   
    
 

      
    
 
    

 
   

SO

-isa i
actly what is meant by this word, for
> it has been used and abused in many
_. -waried senses. Perhaps, indeed, any
dogmatic + definition would be impossible, because of personal shades
which each person includes in his own
idea of its meaning. There are two
points, though, that are almost indubitable. Culture is a certain way
sof reacting to the manifold stimuli of
life, and it is not the same as education.
This latter fact is well iliustrated by a
-—s gather felicitous definition of culture,
ip which states that, ““Culture is what remains after we have forgotten everything we definitely set out to learn.”
--‘Thus it often comes about that universities provide adequate education for
their students, but they do not provide
- culture. To relate this to concrete
ss eases, we might note the difference
ss between the way in which a merely
| educated man and a cultured man,
adjust themselves to the turmoil of

&:

se

everyday existence
}s on ea The cikased man, for instance, is
i distinctly uncomfortable in surround.-) ings alien to his intellectual world. He
--—s would feel ashamed to be seen talking
‘to some poor tattered wretch on the
street corner. vc
forced to confess that his brother (say)

r

h em ae

|

drove a milk-wagon, or peddled coal.
--_—--: In the company of simple folk, he would
‘be unable to converse naturally, and

would either lecture to them, or remain loftily aloof. In fact, his whole
bearing gives an impression of haughtiness and distain, and one can never
forget in his presence, the terrifying
grandeur of a Ph. D. The truly
cultured man, on the other hand, is
- always at his ease. He has a kindly
_ * sympathetic word for everyone, and
would not be ashamed to be discovered

orking with a lowly peasant, or exaeaceine 6 jest with a despised outcast.
He is a good listener, and knows when

ye

  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
      
     
  
   
   
   
  
  
      
    
   
  
 
    
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   

    
 

to speak, and when to remain silent.
He would be as much at Beene '
friendly poker game, as at a Roya
acces necting. And he can converse
with equal interest on the philosophy
of Leibniz, or the length of his wife's
evening gown. He is thoroughly human at all times.
; In the intellectual sphere, the dis' parity between the merely educated
- man and cultured man, is even more
r evident. The former has a_ ready
a reason for all his opinions. His philsors) phy of life is cut and dried. He will
exhibit it at a moment’s notice, and
Te) will defend it by argument to the bitter
end. He professes tolerance but in
Bad reality has no interest in opinions
differing from his own. As a rule he
is a narrow specialist, who is as dogmatic as he is narrow. Usually, he
adopts either a religious or a scientific
a viewpoint in explaining the mysteries
Pi of the universe, and in the end believes
i his explanation unchallengeable. The
°, man of culture on the contrary, cannot
always give a reason for his judgements,
” Indeed, he does not feel obliged to
justify every opinion, for he recognizes
the fact that each is purely personal.
He sses on that account, infinite
toleration, anda sort of poetic scepticism
, of all dogmatic creeds. He realizes,
ne too, the futility of argument, and does
~~ - not worry about keeping ‘‘up to the
-_- minute’’inhisknowledge. He finds ite
little difficult to convey to you his
philosophy of life, but when he has
done so, you feel that it is something
living and vital by which he has been
a? well guided. Above all, the cultured
oat. man appreciates the worth of every
: human being, and tenderly sympathizes
with humanity in its painful ascent
from the slough of superstition and
ignorance. His golden rule, ‘Thou
alt not be cruel.”

 

“ #¢

These above comparisons give us
a hint as to the relative worth of
education as such, and culture. And
it seems clear that education, although
grees and wonderful influence, is not
of itself sufficient for the real develop_ment of humanity.

aha lucated man, who lacks a spirit of
a , culture, is dangerous. For he usually
oe combines ath of the ee eye and
‘prejudice of the ignorant with a comat prehen ive knowledge. Andthismakes
_ him «¢ y. It was such a type of
human being who adapted the discoveries of science to aid in the slaught
r of the late war. It will be such a

ype who will blot out our civilization

e next conflict. unless we take
A mass of merely educated
- are a mass endowed with the
to discover more and more

In fact, the merely

  

  
  

efficient ways of exterminating themselves in their bitter struggles with
each other. a Gadely dis
seminated | ulture, which

  
 

and for any really mature |

+The lure of the bazaar.

H uld blush if}

seer , _A beggar crouched by a palace gate
| With bony outstretched palms,

eae fr. 4. = toe ;
ae Cae? eer - Won in an a
eh Ly Me Se ae : ae iF ye
Ps ee a : mr 5 4

7 re. }

 
   
  
 

1
|

By

 

(By Audrey Pauline Ryan).

- Down by the sea where the ships come}

in,
That’s where I dream my dreams

Of other worlds and foreign ports.
—The strangeness of their scunes.

There on the dock I watch entranced,
At the end of a weary day,

The tramp ships from the Orient
Come sailing up the bay,

Cargo’d with spices and ivories
And fragrant China tea;
Enveloped in twilight’s misty glow
And Eastern mystery.

Softly they glide through the sapphire

sea,
Faint touched with the silver light
Of a virgin moon just rising,
Frail, slim and white.

The sails grow black as the moon come
up

Lighting my world for me,

And the hulk of the boat is a silhouette

Etched on a silver sea.

Oh! It’s good to be there where the
ships come in,

And the salt is in the air,

—To sail away in a boat of dreams

To Java, Siam, Port Blair.

And there in my dreams I see a street,
(If such it might be called),

A narrow, crooked, stra gling lane

Of the East, where natives lolled

All day in the blazing sun

Selling their showy goods,

Shawls and silks and earthenware,
Trinkets and scented woods.

Those leering eyes and turbaned heads,
That temple door ajar;
Sundry things that fabricate

Who gathers close his filthy rags
And hoarsely cries for alms.

Yet just within the gold wrought door,
The luxury of a dream,

Jewelled lamps on silver chains

Hang from a jasper beam.

The vaulted roof like the desert sky
Glows with burning stars;

Attar and myrrh and harem musk
Flow from marble jars.

And in the fragrance which floods the
room

My dizzy senses swim

Back from the land of fantasy

To that of reality grim. ¢

Oh madness that comes to me by the
sea

And holds me there spell-bound!

Wonderful deficiency,
So shallow yet profound!

Oh come with me and sail in dreams
Far away from care;
Down by the sea where the ships come

| fh
And the salt is in the air!

 

Of Utopias

It has long been the purpose and aim
of philosophers to either point the way
to or to establish in theory ideal states
and organizations known more popularly as “Utopias.”” It is my contention
that ‘Utopia’ is a negative principle
and by its very essence is impossible of
fulfilment. An ideal organization can
exist only in the imagination, if we
reached that political and social state
of unity and harmony known to our
mind at the present moment as ‘‘Utopia”
we would not realize that we are at
that state, had attained a state of
perfection, and even if we should, the
attainment of that state would have
brought along with it. even during the
attainment, new problems which would
make*it necessary for the imagination
to change its conception of an_ ideal
state to a new conception, omitting,
changing or adding some new principle
or principles to their former view.

Shopenhauer is right when he says
that possession of a thing, which as
conceived previously would have brought us happiness (so we thought, at
least) brings with it new thoughts and
dissatisfactions with the thing, when
attained. Perhaps our present organization took the form of a “Utopia”
in the mind of some ancient philosopher
but during the attainment of our present organization new problems and
new creations of the mind have made
our present organization seem inadequate to the great social reconstruction which our imagination at this
present time, looks upon as an ideal
organization. :

e that increaseth knowledge, increaseth outlook on what should be.
It is not possible for a civilization of the
year 1930 to conform with in the minds
of the people living in that year, with
the conception which people of previous
centuries would have held on beholding
such an organization in their midst

“Utopias’’ are valuable in that they
bring foie minds standards by which
we should regulate our conduct; but
they should not be looked upon as

n|an end in themselves but only as a

means toa further end which goes on to
infinity and which it is impossible to
grasp at any fixed

Perfection is not for man. His
baad giocy es in ware |

S. M. hee

   
  
   

| The Sea|

 


 

 

4 i

 

‘College Spirit
At Dalhousie

Is it really that college spirit at
Dalhousie is deplorable or is it that the
students are too lazy. We are irclined
to think it is the latter. Is it that they
just cant be bothered to turnont to
support their classes, their societies
and their teams or are they really not
interested?

After the first year how many
attend class meetings, class games or
even class parties and pay their dues?
It is said that classes are run by
cliques but if thes? same few people
did not turn out where would the class
be as the rest of the members seem to
take no interest whatsoever.

The societies lack enthusiastic and
wholehearted support.
must be noted the same few take an
active part. Most peeple come to
college with the idea of joining many
of the clubs but after a few weeks of
college life those ideas seem to be relegated to the scrap heapof others such
ideas and students care nothing except
for dances, sleep and the odd bit of
work now and then.

In athletics the same lack of zeal is
noticed that is all exceot football.
How many turn out to watch ice hockey
games unless there is a compensation
of an hours free skating afterwards.
The number of spectators at a Basketball game is pitiful. How can the
students expect their teams to do
ther best when they receive so little
support.

If we want Dalhousie to take her
place with the colleges of today, to
be active, alive and to show a keen
interest in -sverytning then we the
students must show more college
spirit as the life of a college rests with
us,

The Story Teller

 

Twice a year the story-teiler came
to the gates of the town, to the gray
south gate, and cried to the watchman
to let him in, once when the blue
spring rains had only just passed and
the ground had sprung overnight with
flowers, and once in the fall wnen the
leaves sifted thinly from the trees and
the voices of birds had a keen and
lonesome note. Once inside he would
sit in the market place in the long pale
twilights while bells of the temple rang
to the descending night and the people
the poor people, the adventurous and
the wild people, who knew no law,
gathered around and listened to his
tales, listened quietly like people of
stone, tor he made a spell for them
with the running music of his voice
with the dark flame of his eyes, and
the motion of his brown long finger.
His face was the face of a stranger, but
he told them of their own people, their
own gods, and the deeds and miracles
that were tneirs. And each year he
came and grew no older.

One dusk of April, when a young
moon hung silverly on a curtain of
fading rose and all the air was heavy
with the sensuous perfume of spring,
he sat as before with his listeners
gathered about. And there was one
among them who had not been there
before, a maiden strayed down from
the dwellings of the rich in answer to
the urge of the spring. With her pale
strands of hair and her dainty robes
she seemed an alien in the midst of the
fierce and dark-skinned people who
thronged about the teller of tales.
And she was strangely protected by aer
childish sweetness and purity. For
hours she listened, spell-bound, to the
tales of love and war and the tales of
holy guest, seeing dreamlike the lean
face the dark curls of the speaker, the
quick tense hands, and the lonely fire
of his eyes. When the moon had
dropped down into the valley and the
night full about her like a cloak, she
hurried back to her own chamber and
dreamt of the man who had no eyes for
her, who had no eyes for anyone, but
only told his tale.

When the tinie of autumn came she
would have slipped down again into
the market placebecause of the voiczin
her heart but that she lay, a newly-wed
bride, in the arms of her husband,
while the stars came out above the
head of the speaker, and a voice of
silver ran on into th. dusk,

So she lived and loved her husband
and guarded her children carefully that
they might not stray into the dangers
of the market place. But she was
lonely in the kisses and caress2s of her
lord, lonely in the bearing of children
lonely in the coming of April. She
dreamt yet of the brown face of a
stranger, of a kiss never given, a kiss
as cool as the sweet, unpassionate
flowers, as the thin valley rain, as the
stars even, And at last she could rest
no longer on the couch where her

|husband lay. She walked her garden
in the moonlight, thinking of old tales.

He came again another fall in his
dusty robe, with his fathomless eyes
and his old spell of wonder. A woman
with a white face sat in the market
place and listened, and wisdom grew
in her heart, For those who have
seen a vision shine through the eyes of
a man must shape all their dreams into
one dream to follow. He had no eyes
for her but in the nighttime she would
be there beside him, outside the gates

of the city. She would know his kiss,
when half awake, he should turn in
the darkness and feel the sweetness
of her body close to his, and someday,
if the gods were good, she weuld herself
be a part of the vision, the holy and
beautiful vision, that shone on the
mountains for him,

F, M. B,

A few and it A
make the aVerage student feel

     
  

iterary Supplement —

Som ething Moreto

Argue A bout

The president situation at Dalhousie is that every society in the
college is run by certain cliques. Glee
Club is a glaring example of this. The
name ‘‘club’’ as applied to this society
is absolutely inappropriate. Incoming
freshmen were laughed at when they
asked how they might. join this socalled club. The majority of them
still know nothing about it. What
will happen to Glee Club when its
present stars graduate? [If Glee Club
is to continues pew material must be
trained every year. Why is this not
being done? An effort should be made
to arouse interest on the part of the
students in this society and in all
societies. Tne possession of a D, A,
C. ticket (worth $10) does not
as
though he had been admitted to the
inner circle. But why should there be
an inner circle? Among 900 students
there must be some undiscovered talent
and some people who could fill responsible positions, capable though the
present holders cf sucn positions may
be. A few student organizations are
regarded merely as compus jokes
Why? Because they are not used by
the cliques. Fraternities and Sorcrities
do not help this ‘‘cliquey’’ atmosphere
any. Members naturally stick together forming a few more cliques and
also assume an attitude of social
superiority which causes hard feeling
among the non members. This atitude may not be a concious one, but
nevertheless it exists. Something ought
to be done about it eventually so—
why not now?

Consider This

There are 236 women students attending Dalhousie University. Of
these tess than one hundred actually
participate in the voluntary activities
ofttered them as a means to enjoy
psycho-physical health. More than
oU percent are round-shouldered, flatchested or physically undeveioped, and
(® percent expend their surplus energy
in dreaming of or reaiizing the Bouermaker's Bait, the Fraternity Tea Dance,
the Sorority Informal or the Lord
iwelson Supper Dance. Are you one
of the 286 who is neglecting the importance of physical exercise as an
essential part of every well. balanced
individual! s life?

Physical activity should not be interpreted in terms of ‘‘arm jerks’’ and
‘knee bends,’ of so many hours of
excerise and so many pounds of fat
discarded for every ten times oi
touching the toes and rolling on the
tloor. Lhe old accusation that physical education exists as muscle exercise,
a reducing agent, or an added irill on
the schooi or college programme no
longer exists but today it is evaluated
as a vital contribution to general compiste education. The mind, the body
and the soul may not be segregated,
each being developed as a separate
unit at the lecture, the gymnasium and
tae church but the individual must be
educated as an organic whole working
in harmony with the conditions, the
ideais and customs of the time and
place.

We are living in an age of democracy.
The whole trend of education today
is toward democratic ends, education
in relation to the group, the community,
the province and the Dominion, the
leaders to be taken from that group.
What could do more in attaining this
end than the team games?

Machinery too, has taken the place
of manual labour and tne probiem
today is how to make use of the leisure
time to alleviate that ‘‘pent-up’’ feeling
of this sedentary life. Now is the time
for every individual to pursue some
activity that will carry over into pastcoliege days and put to worthy use
one or two hours of enjoyment. Is it
not true that the mind is incapable of
clear thinking under adverse conditions
of internal disease or disorder? In the
same way is this not proof that the
mental processes are dependent on
physical fitness for the greatest development of its potentialities?

Is your curriculum balanced? Do
you swim, play Basketball, Badminton
or Ice Hockey? Do you go out-doors
and really enjoy the fresh air by skating, skiing or snowshoeing? Do you
play the game for its intrinsic value or
some remuneration, or for the love of
activity, the sake of the team, and the
honour of the college? Is three-fifths
of your programme compulsory, viz.
lectures and two-fifths dancing and
recuperation from the same?

There are three afternoons open
from 2.30-4.30 for Babminton in the
gymnasium. Two evenings and an
hour on Saturday morning are reserved
for girls Basketball, The Forum is
open for an hour on Saturday mornings
for Ice Hockey. There have been arrangements made for you to swim once
a week at the Y. M. C. A. with free
instruction, and yet, the cry of wronged
women goes up for more hours in the
gymnasium and more money for
womens’ Athletics. A suggestion—
make use of what you have first and
justify your plea!

>

We hear that the Radio at Shirreff
Hall certainly fooled one of the imnates
of that place the other day. She was
going down the hall when she heard a
man’s voice. Hush--what was that?
It sounded like a man’s voice—it is a
man's voice. How did a man get in
here and what is this place becoming,
They must be nabbed and she entered
to do her duty only to find it was the
radio. Next installment to be given
next week,

 

To College Or
Not To College

Just now we are hearing a lot about|S°me disproportionately weak;

| Of Belief In

Immortality

mens

On this earth there are many men
and women of different dispositions or
characters. There are some strong
characters, some disproportionately strong;thereare others of weak Sarita
the

the futility of a College course. Evi-| thers vacillate between the twoj

dently we Dalhousians of today are
disappointing our professors more than
formerly for even they are beginning to
propogate anarchy and suggest that
perhaps, after all, boys and girls would
become just as successful men and
women of the world without their
golden words of wisdom and _ instruction. They seem honestly distressed
about the matter. If that attitude
arises from one fault as students we
should rise in a body and say, “‘Not
so!

Undoubtedly college helps. We do
not blame the professors from judging
from outward appearances and condemning their work as a failure and
their lives at Dalhousie as wasted.
We don’t show that we are interested.
We regard classes as a necessary evil
to be avoided whenever possible, and
the results of examinations show that
the average student absorbs nothing
from the lectures but the most obvious
facts, absorbs many of those erroneously, and reads absolutely nothing for
himself. But that is the ‘‘average’’
student, there is always a certain
percentage who are interested, who
recognize the worth of what their
professors are giving them, and that
College is their opportunity as well as
their playground. Surely for these
students. be they ever so few in number, the University is warranted and
the professorial work not in vain.

But even for the casual student
College is a help. It is an absolute
impossibility for a young man or
woman to remain four years in Dalhousie University without being tremendously affected by the class room
and social contacts. There are eager.
fresh, and talented minds here and
there among the students as well as
the cultured minds of the faculty and
these must make some sort of an
impression. All types are found in
the class room and that in itself should
be of life long value to a student.

A freshman enters College with an
average quota of gray matter but,
owing to lack of opportunity only the
crudest manners. His mind is a
camera plate and unconsciously receives the manners, customs in dress,
and speech of his fellows. Most often
he patterns himself off the leading
persons on the campus and the result—
at the end of four years he has transformed himself into a pattern for freshmen.

The person who does nothing at
College would probably do worse out
of college for here there is an unconscious challenge to a person's character,
There is nothing better than clean
sport to bring out the best in an individual and that, in combination with
the intellectual and social side of college
life, is surely an aid to the characterless
youth, though such a person is hardly
a help to the College.

These are but a few points in favor
of a College education, there are much
greater ones. So let us forego this
depreciation of our College. It always
has been and will always be the true
starting point of an education and
those who decry it are either the failures
in College or those who were unable
to attend and, like the fox without the
tail, begrudge it to others.

Value of the
Classics to the
Modern Student

In whatever profession or business
the student may intend to enter, he
will always find latin and Greek of
great help to him. The classics aid
him both culturally and practically.
If his future profession 1s that of
medicine, he will need a knowledge of
Latin and Greek to understand the
technical terms used in medica! science
and the prescriptions that he has
given. If he is going to be a lawyer
or clergyman, the classics are necessary
to comprehend the books of which
these gentlemen must have a working
knowledge. If engineering is his natura! bent, Latin and Greek authors lose
some of their practical value and take
on a cultural interest. If he intends
to follow a business career, Latin and
Greek are a fine foundation for the
foreign languages necessary to commercial correspondence. Accordingly;
whether the student wishes to be a
business or a professional man, the
classics will always afford him great
pleasure and greater profit.

R. W. Maclellan.

 

 

 

Song

 

A moon of thin old silver, lighted hangs

Far down the silent stretches of the
west.

An a soft song comes lightly to my
ips,

And in my heart, whose one desire is
rest,

An old dream wakes, untarnished and
complete.

Tae brown brook waters laugh and
cry and croon.

Go, or my tired, tired heart will break,

Old dream, old song, old moon.

F, M. B.

cnt leita

Anna MacLean, Dalhousie graduate, spent a few days during the holiday
visiting friends in St. John,

>

y

= h iv F i i 7
Pa Si aS Ri el, ater lla AR ie eS. See SS Se ee ee a

there is no golden mean.

All people from their own individual
experience know the things and thoughts which either comfort them or
sicken them. They know the thoughts and tnings which will come
nearest to making their stay on this
earth pleasant or unpleasant; they
know that which brings them, 1” fact,
in action, in tife, nearest to that which
is commonly known as happiness.

Habits are acquired; that ig habits
can be acquired, We should acquire
the habits which we know from concrete experience will give us pleasure,
These habits are acquired not by will
power, bet by thinking. Thinking
is an art which we can all acquire.
To acquire it needs only commen sense;
we a!l possess common sense; therefore
we can all acquire those habits which
will bring in the most pleasure. By
pleasure 1 mean acquisition, but not
necessarily of material things. Those
things wnich are needed to bring
harmony to our minds are the things
which we need for pleasure.

Some people who are weak know that
they are comforted by the thought of
an after life; this belief makes their
stay here on the earth much more
happier than it would otherwise be,
Those people should acquire the habit
of belief in immortality.

There arc people of a rather strong
nature who find themselves tortured
by conflicting doubts, They want
logical proof of immurtality and they
cannot find it. They do not havea
transcendant belicf in after life. Those
people should study phiiosophy and
literature. If their natures are strong
enough they will realize that even if
there is no logical proot of immortality
even if they have no metaphysical)
belief in God, that discounting all
these conflicting factors, there is a
jvy, a happiness to be found in the
ever present moment; a joy bhat
conciliates logic and metaphysics, action and aesthetics, lhis joy cau
be had only after much study and
suffering, but once attained, it is a
juy which overruns every other joy
tu be found on this carth, it is a pleasure Of a fiilerent degree from all uvlhers.

The man wav is of a cllarater
neither exceptionally strong or weak
will not find tintee to worry over immortality. He is content with his
religion and_as his religion teacnes. so
doth he believe. His liappiness is to
be found in much aetion of which the
corresponding thought docs not lag,
but is simultaneous with the action,

When A
Man Loves

 

Being in love isa serious thing. It
is something into which an individual
slips unknowingly. The path ig narrow and tortous. A path when once
undertaken can never be retraced.
For love is as much of one’s make up
in life as is the body. Love entwines
the souls of men and women within its
inseparable meshes. A bond and network which even the strictest laws of
society and convention cannot sever
or loosen,

Men feel the passion of love stronger
than women, that is, when they are
really in love. It is difficult for men to
fall in love, because men are very
fickle and are polygamous by nature,
A new face or a fanciful creation can
easily stir up the sensual passions of
man. But it takes more than a pretty
face or stylish skirt to thake a man
feel the greatest passion of life, the
driving force of all creation, Then
and only then, does man awaken to the
glorious realization that, after all,
life is really worth living.

When a man loves, he changes from
a rational creature to one entirely
devoid of reason. One idea and one
objective lies predominantly in his
mind. And strange to say, far beyond
the comprehension of reason, he sweeps
away any and everything save and
except his ideal. Obstacles, career,
crime and even vices mean little to
such an individual. Morals are even
shattered if the occasion necessitates
such a condition. Everything is perverted to suit his way of thinking whilst
the mad fever and uncontrollable
frenzy of this ruling passion of man’s
life rages within him.

The tortures of Hell and the impossibilities of this world do not daunt
such a man from his purpose. Like
a crazy fiend he sets out on a fool-like
quest ard is sometimes lucky if his
dreams come true. As he sets out on
nis journey, under the influence of his
acquisitive instincts, unmercifully and
ruthlessly he clears the road to a semiapparent success. Such a man sacrifices his life, his all, on the altar of love,

In most cases, man is disillusioned
and then turns away from the beautiful
road of idealism. He steers cither
towards dreary pessimism or crass
materialism. With his idealistic dream
shattered, he finds himself relegated to
a world of shipwrecked souls. Men
and women who have journeyed forth
and have sailed the mighty seas of life,
Souls who have met disaster on the
banks of Love, Conquest, Fame and
Fortune. Finally this mass of creation
gail down an endless weary stream
into the ocean of Death.

ethene ee
Observer has been trying to find out
just who owns the treasured radio at
Sheriff Hall. Perhaps by next week

this valuable will have
been received.

information

1

oe he ‘ s Lae! a ;

 

|
|
|

 

 
 
   

  
 
  
   
 
      
     
     
 

 

 
   

      
 

  
  
   

 
   
   

   

    

p ee ea fh r : me ae “ : ae ,
ee Pata eee ne eT ae favors
Den Avs Ve es
ths My it AO aur
i a OPA ORT HES

aes ae

;

a aie

ih
+
*

    
 
    

 

 

    
 
   
   
          
   
    

for Oldham in the

 
 
    
 

 
      
  

El a of 1900, and thereupon embarked upon the most
pea Ban | Dicer cag cane? siral ois 3

il. c Re ae on ish politics, ne the age of

six _ Mr. Churchill was already something of a national

The course of his political career is familiar to all who

themselves in the British history of a momentous yester
j eh ee Sy ey Get, (tae, Dahl. Gi & aacd }
as perhaps critical today. Now the story of those
years fs pres ‘sented to the public in autobiographical
‘Mr. Churchill's style is celebrated for its vigor. His books,
and all, have been intensely interesting. This latest for sheer
tion takes first place. ‘The incidents of his early life make
__ lively material for an adventurous story. The tale is well told,
fe a ate lly and simply, frankly and without the blemish of false
ie | He comes of a celebrated English family of the old ruling class,
a he Churchills and the Dukes of Marlborough. His father, Lord
Randolph Churchill was a commanding figure in public life. His
mother, an American born lady, was one of the most brilliant
_ figures in London society. He was connected by ties of kinship,
yr by his connection's ae with practically all the outRei + nding public figures of those days. His early days were spent

in intimate contact with great people and great events.

Formal education began when he attained the age of seven.
_ His two years at St. James School were neither happy nor sucny cessful. Afterwards he was transferred to Harrow. There he
__was placed in the lowest form and promotion came so slowly as to
be almost negligible. The teaching of English was in those days
___ evidently held as a sort of last resort for the awkward squad, and
in English Mr. Churchill was in some measure successful. Re
  

   
  

   
 

  

              
   

 
   
 
  

 
      
 

eee |

ap ris
- a

 
    

 

  

  

Li

 
 

   
   

peated study of the English sentence and its structure laid the
Rear oundation for a style and a command of languages later to become

 
  

rd )
ei
és

“e art

  
 
 

- famous. A high spot at Harrow occured when he catapulted into
the swimming-pool a certain Amery. Mr. Amery was not a big
boy, which led, Mr. Churchill to believe he was a classmate. It
sah. _ happened that Mr. Amery was a senior, a monitor, and an athlete.
* Wai ih emerged raging from the pool and complications ensued.
ays: % aie the two were to meet on equal terms and to sit in the same
eG _ In the meantime Mr. Churchill's family were deciding that
the University and the Law were not for Winston and they proak edded: to! divert his course towards the Army with Winston's
enthusiastic consent. Twice he attempted the entrance to Sandurst and failed. At the third onslaught he managed to make it.

Be | latters proceeded more smoothly. At Sandhurst one studied
___ sensible things and one progressed so much better. He graduated
_- with honors and was commissioned in the Cavalry in the 4th

> Hussars. ! , ty Ma, 5

7 r i if

Savy In

  

   

   
 

     
 

eer
J >
*

  

i : - 4

  
   
  

 
      
  

1895 he obtained leave to cross the ocean and have a look
uban Rebellion. The Spanish authorities were very kind
ted him to have a good look around. He got an eyeful
. War interested him.

1e Hussars went on duty to India to garrison in Bangalore.
e duty occupied little time, polo was more important and
i da lot. The regiment resolved to corral the championship
oe [India and set about doing it in a business-like way. It was a
tremendous resolution. | Mr. Churchill read extensively, history,
ie eek philosophy, economics—these things now interested him.

' a : Trouble broke out in the Northern Frontier. Sir Bidon Blood,
an old family friend, was put in command of an expedition. Lieut.
Churchill pulled wires, obtained leave from his regiment, made
a dicker as correspondent to certain London newspapers, and went
north to see the fun. There was plenty of excitement and danger
and he missed as little as possible. His writings were well received.

 

ee. Vi
aimee {112

at

    
   
 
  

 
 
 

  

 
 
  

 

 
 
     
  

 

  

 
 

      
 
 

After the campaign he produced his experiences in book form.
_-~—s«-*Then he got wind of a new expedition to Tirah. He sought to
pull wires again but the going was more difficult. Howbeit the
- much-sought appointment came, but too late. The campaign

fizzled out.

_ Almost immediately trouble broke out in Egypt. Kitchener
was to invade the Soudan. Mr. Churchill thought he would go
along too. A great many influential people somehow thought he
would not. Mr. Churchill pulled many and far-reaching wires.

+» Many persons were involved in the affair, high officials, the Sirdar,

even the Prime Misister. Eventually Mr. Churchill arrived
where he wanted to be. There was much excitement. He saw

 

'--— and wrote. At Omduran he charged with the 21st Lancers. A
_-_ short distance away a young naval officer named Beatty witnessed
~~ that famous charge from a gunboat in the Nile. The khaki-clad
Het _ Lancers were mixed up with a great mass of white-garbed Der
vishes. Things happened quickly and tended to be messy. Some
years later First Lord of the Admiralty Churchill met Admiral
Beatty. They talked of the charge. “‘What did it look like?’
asked Churchill. “It looked,” said Beatty, “like plum duff:
brown currents scattered about in a great deal of suet.”

_-——Ss«#éWFor pecuniary reasons Mr. Churchill now thought it advisable
to leave the Army. There was however one more important task
: to be performed. The 4th Hussars had not won the polo title.

In 1899 they were ready for the great effort. Mr. Churchill was

to play No. 1. The day before the great final he fell and threw

oe out his right shoulder. His comrades insisted that he play anyhow.
$0 with his right elbow strapped to his side Mr. Churchill cantered
out on the field of battle. The Hussars met the 4th Dragoon

, Guards in battle royal. Mr. Churchill managed to whack in two

& ewe goals, bad shoulder to the contrary. The Hussars won by a goal

 
  
  
   
    
  
  
   

ely,
7
$ ~

  

eS: _ and a notable chapter was written into the history of the Army in
India. That year he resigned his commission.

a In England politics beckoned and Mr. Churchill ran in Oldham.

i
ef)

mi,

 
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
        
     
  
   
   

_ The time was unpropitious and he lost. Then the South African
I eyes _ War loomed up. He hastened to the scene as corrspondent for
the Morning Post. He moved around in the most lively sectors
_ and wrote despatches which were widely read at home. In an
rae st! epgncament in which he played a gallant part he was captured by
ber & theo soers. They took him to Pretoria whence he eventually
_ managed a brilliant escape. That escape and the circumstance
of his capture made Mr. Churchill famous. While wandering at

_ the end of his tether, still two hundred miles from the fronties

he was almost recaptured. By sheer good luck he fell into the

 

  

hands of British sympathisers. His relief at finding them friends
er his head) was considerable. He “felt like
a dro from the water and informed he has won
the Derby.” He reache rban to find himself a popular hero.
_ With the end of the main fighting he returned home. He wrote
and lectured on his adventures and netted some thousands of
a De inds. * he elections came. This time Oldham returned him.
ae He pla ved a most prominent part in the campaign. He entered
Ae Dash ver . ae a en speech and so closed his early

& om

was a price on
gman palle
He reache

  
 

-~

     
 

  

      
  
       

    
 

*

  
 
 
   
  

  

wes id i Vado. fh ail
ae ” mS a

LS. cx, . . '
= T1 Xhulen aii) idee aed
a mm i ' o e

pe La a ‘ : : y se it }
a satin Mem | we SED VEE TE

e : r ’

 
  

    

“i «

»

wonderful acquisition to the College

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The Archives.
rei SEEETLVG

- ee tte

 

sity Fails.

The imposing new Archives Building
with its vast and valuable store of
antiquity’s treasurer is of itself a] We are becoming a_ standardized
. ny people. Time has run back to fetch
Campus. _it is truly a “‘House of|the Procustean measure which is
Learning’’ as Doctor MacMechan has} applied indifferently to all. The uniso fittingly said, where are collected|versities, having fallen into step,
for exhibition and study, works of] mechanically dispense education in
art and historic relics which may now| conformity with an accepted pattern.
become a wonderful means of enhanc-} At the end of four years the student
ing our knowledge and love of art.|has a gown thrown over him and a
Within the spacious rooms beautifully parchment placed in his hand, certifylighted both by the sun’s delicate|ing to all the world that he is an
beams and the soft radiance of elec-\educated man. The danger of the
tricity are housed the priceless valu- process is that the indicia of edducaables ofold. Ms tion may be taken for the thing itself,
_ The Dominion exhibit from Ottawa | that the debased coin may pass current
is under the supervision of Doctor |for refined gold. Satisfaction of curDoughty, the Federal Archivist. This|ricula and baccalaureate investments
interesting and notable collection is to | are the evidences and symbols, not the
remain here only a very short time,| substance, of education. It is the
the invaluable exhibit from Fort Anne] primary office of a university to imPark Museum having already return-| part that elusive fifth essence which
ed the most standing piece of art in| imparts the stamp of genuine education
the entire exhibit is the portrait of] and acts as leaven on what was before
Lord Cornwaliis which is finished in| ys more than informntion. If our
subdued tones. Another, striking oil | training cannot provide that we have
painting im rich and glowing colours, | followed after an ignis fatuus; if it
presented to the peopie by Princess|}. offered and we withhold our hands
Patricia, is that of the founder of our | from it, we are like him of tne parable
Aima Mater and Governor in Chief of | who hid his talent in the ground.
Canada from 1820 to 1825. There An essential mark of the educated
is also an extremely fascinating por-| man is correctness and precision in the
trait of Joseph Desbar.es, that ad-|writine of nis mother-toncue. Toventuresome naval oiticer who charted wards a coal of Attic srace one need
the coast of Nova Scotia with such|not stretch, for it suroasses nature’s
accuracy that his chart is used even law. Acchracy, clearness and _pernow. His ‘‘Atilantic Neptune,” a book | suasiveness.in the writing of English
of description magnificentiy illustrated | should, however, be the possession,
with picturesque water coivurs ot|not of the occasional, but of the averwhich no less than a hundred and two| age student when he leaves his college
of them are preserved today was/walls. Capacity to write with propublisned in 1779. priety and grace of diction is a tradi
Probably the most remarkable thing | tion of the older English universities,
is the Article of Capitulation of the|as Newman said, “for the same reason
historic oid fortress of Louisburg in|that a certain attention to dress is
1/63. There is a very instructive expected of every gentleman.”
pictorial map of the district in 1660,] Canadian universities have not_been
showing the little hamiets, the on-com- | over-zealous in their nurture of the
ing forces, and the ships looming in the] jus et norma to uendi. It is suggested
background, The original map used|with much hesitation (and a full
by Montcalm in the planning of his} sense of the writer’s unfitness to cast
defense of Quebec from Albany and the|the first stone) that at Dalhousie in
Hudson in 1/07 is certainly valuabie; particular this condition prevails. A
and worth noting. The most ancient] pridcipal reason is that student opinion
map is doubtiess that of America|is indifferent to the question, not bepublished by Abraham Orthelus in]|cause we are so beset with presump1670, th> first of its kird to be depicted | tuous sin that we pharisaically regard
iongitudinally in which he uses the old]ourselves as being without reproach,
memorable Indian names. Then trere} but because the problem is considered
is an interesting log book of one of the| unworthy of serious thought from a
ancient mariners of the good ship | practical mind.

Pegasus which is beautifully illustrated In the whole field of cultural as
throughout by portraits, comic sketches | opposed to technical training. there is,
and rural scenes. however, no ornament of more vital

Among tne oil paintings, a copy of | utility to that abstraction, the practical
Benjamin West’s well known scene| man, than the command of gorecise
of the heroic Death of Wolfe holds a|and irgorous expression. In business
prominent place. There are alsojits value is enormous. The executives
gorgeously coloured engtavings by|knack of constructing clear, incisive
Richard Short published in 1764. sentences that cut clean, as a well
Another important item in the} ground blade, cannot proceed wholly
exhibit is the Order of tne Mobiliza-| from the light of nature. The lawyer
tion of the French Army in 1914.| with his contracts and conveyadces,
The War pictures aré realistic examples|the legislative draftsman with his
of photographic art and are living] proposed enactments and amendments
reminders of the bravery of the Cana-| must watch their language with as
dian legions, there is a remarkable| much care as the architect gives to the
display of posters mounted on linen, | making of his blueprints.
once so prevalent in the land but which There is a more general argument
now are merely souvenirs of those|for those who will agree that education
trying days when the whole world was|is what remains when the facts which
struggling for peace. There is also to ,one has learned are forgotten. -Writbe seen specimens of beautiful book|ing, once acquired, is an art which
binding done at the Archives in Ot-| does not capriciously desert her discitawa. Perhaps the most striking and| ples. Because the knowledge which
impressive thing is the equisite hand|comes from doing a thing persists
writing wrought with delicate fineness| longer than that which comes from
and accuracy. learning a thing, the ability to write

There is another interesting and|acceptably is one of the most lasting
valuable exhibit on the third floor, the| gifts which education can bestow.
charms of this collection will be a| Information, like words, is a dauchter
permanent attraction to the student|of the earth, but the art of writino,
body of Dalhousie who represent | like ideas, is a son of heaven.
various parts of the world. There If the universities are to fulfil their
shall be found: personal help to aid in|responsibilities, their cultural Arts
research work and the means for|courses must be moulded more careanswering questions that arise through | fully to the ultimate requirements of
interest in writing or disputing various|their students. The student who for
subjects, the whole of which should|four years entrusts his intellectual
nspire one with the spirit of patriotism. | well-being to a university, should be

The Banner of the Loyalist with the | able legitimately to expect that at the
words ‘I shall arise’? found in far|end of this course his pen would be
away London is one of the most in-| that of a reasonably accurate persuateresting things in this collection. | sive and ready writer.

The Nova Scotia Seal of 1784 with it
is displayed there, along with the New| Marlborou gh--the
Portrait of a
Conqueror

 

Brunswick seal of 1925. Tne Badge
of the Baronet of Nova Scotia, who was
created at the time of Sir William
Alexander too, forms a part of the
valuable heritage of former days.

Perhaps the most curious picture to
be found there is that of the Studley
Quoits Club wnich is put together in
such a wonderfully 'ife like way that
it appears like an actual scene. There
is seen, the Micmac cathechism which
resembles Egyptian hieroglyphics.

The money used by our forefathers
proves another source of interest
There is a three dollar bill of the
Farmers’ Joint Stock Bank, five snill
ing currency of the Agricultural Bank
of Upper Canada, and a feur dollar
bill of the Bank of Ottawa. There are
numerous Manuscripts and decuments,
some of which have not been catalogued
with suitable steel drawers and stacks
for keeping these historic records.
Many beautiful oils and water colours
are to be seen adorning the walls.
The ‘most exquisite is a paining of a
ship by Rosenburg, a Halifax artist.
The charceal drawings of Arthur
Lismer are intensely well delineated,
There are numerous references placed
at the students’ disposal such as,
county histories, copies of church
records in the province, township books,
diaries, journals, letters and _ local
histories.

The Archives Building the gift of
W. H. Chase, officially opened on
Wednesday the 14th of January, is a
lasting monument to’ the ideals and
culture of the people and as a worthy
Nova Scotian, Howe has said, ‘‘A wise
nation preserves its records, gathers up
itsmonuments, repairs its great public
structures, decorates the tombs of its
illustrious dead, and fosters national
pride and love of country by perpetual
reference to the sacrifices and glories of
the past.”, oil

 

By Donaid Barr Chidsey,
John Murray,

Z ondon,

Fashion reigns over literature as
she does over other concerns of life.
The evolutions of biography is evidence
of her influedce. Half a century ago
a biographer set about with prodigious
industry to collect all the available
relevant information for an offering to
scholarship. At length having exhausted himself and his subject, he
presented the public with the fruits of
his labours in two or three monumental]
volumes. To his readers time was
not of the essence, Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction. Biography has become less ponderous and more democratic. Instead
of painting on a large canvas a dignified
procession from the cradle to the grave,
the custodians of great men’s reputations are content with conveying certain main impressions by boldly chalked
outlines.

In Mariborough Mr. Chidsey has
traced two or three lines more heavily
than the rest. The Great Duke
stands out as an embodiment of all
the talents. He did everything well,
Chesterfield admitted that he “possessed all the graces in the highest degree.”

He was an admirable and later a
faultless husband; he was a clever
politician, a great diplomat; in an
age when competitions made traitors
skilful, he was one of the hest; he was
an expert swordsman, a_ graceful
equestrian, a crack tennis player, an
excellent dancer.”

Continued on page 6.

A ' ii each af 7

" eee LS LL LL

Ree rr ee eee ee eee ee ee

SS pene

| Where the Univer- Merrill Denison

Canadian.

 

Art is the expression of the innermost being of those who produce it.
So a national art is the expression of a
deep rooted feeling of national consciousness amongst a people. It is
the production of a national art from
by its people which indicates whether
or not a country has really become a
nation. Canada today is being recognized as a nation by other great
powers of the world and it is interesting to note that with the growth of
national conscious which brought this
about there has also developed an art
form which is typically Canadian.
Men and women are producing works
of art which express the spirit of the
Dominion because their authors have
been moulded by Canadian influences.
Authors, poets, dramatists, painters,
and sculptors are only a few of the
many who have contributed to the
already growing store of Canadian
art, and of these at least one dramatist,
Merrill Denison, has made a place for
himself in Canada's Hall of Fame.
The facts of his life may be read in
‘‘Who’s Who for Canada.”

Merrill Denison was born in Detroit
on the twenty-third uf June, 1981,
and in the following year his family
moved to Ontario where Merrill grew
up and made his home. He was
educated at the Jarvis Street Collegiate
Institute, in Toronto, and from there
went to the Universities of Toronto,
Pennsylvania, Columbia and Paris,
at all of which he studied architecture.
He served for three years during the
Great War. and the result of his army
experience is shown in his earliest
dramatic work. ‘In 1921 he was
Art director at Hart House Theatre,
and it was while there that he wrote his
first play, ‘‘Brothers in Arms.” which,
to quote from “The Canadian Magazine,” has “become a little theatre
classic.” Besides his plays he has
written several short stories and a
great many humorous sketches and
magazine articles, but his most important contribution to a Canadian
Art has been in the field of the drama.
It is a significant fact that in a collection of eleven ‘“‘Canadian Plays from
Hart House Theatre,” edited in 1926
and 1927 by the Honourable Vincent
Massey, three are by Merrill Denison,
and it is interesting to note that of all
the dramatists whose works are represented, he alone has more than one
play included. The first volume of
his plays appeared in 1923, published
by McClelland and Stewart of Toronto.
It contained three one-act comedies
and one four-act tragedy, and was
entitled ‘‘The Unheroic North.”

There is about the work of Merrill
Denison a stark realism which is
almost brutal in the truthfulness with
which it portrays life. Denison is a
master in the art of character portraiture and he depends entirely on the
genuineness of his characters for their
appeal to the hearts of mankind.
Under his deft touch they become living
beings and awaken interest, pity, and
terror by their kinship to the rest of
humanity. In each of. the four. plays
of ‘‘The Unheroic North’ character
is predominant over action and gives
rise to the action which takes place.
The dramatist’s own work in the
theatre has been of very great value
to him and everyone of his plays shows
an exhaustive knowledge of the crafts
manship of the stage. The action is
always logical and well timed and the

characters are always kept well under
control. Especially in a one-act play,
there is no time for wasting words and

the action of Denison’s plays proceeds
without a halt from the first moment
of the play to the final curtain. In
each play the language chosen is true
to the character speaking. The result
of all this is that a Denison onlay is
very easy to produce and when produced is eatremely effective upon the
stage.

Of the four plays in “‘The Unheroic
North” only the four-act tragedy,
‘‘Marsh Hav,”’ has not appeared before
the public. Two of the others, ‘“Brothers in Arms’’ and “The Weather
Breeder,’’ were first produced at Hart
House Theatre in the years 1921 and
1924 respectively. The third one,
“From Their Own Place,” was first
done in 1922 by The Arts and Letters
Players of Toronto. In both “Brothers in Arms’ and ‘From Their Own
Place’”’ Denison himself played a small
part.

The thing to notice about these plays
is that they are all typically Canadian.
Their scenes are laid in Canada; their
language is the language of Canada;
and they present the Canadian woodsman as no other works have ever
presented him. Nowhere but in Canada could these plays have had their
foundation and because of this fact
theirs is essentially the spirit of the
Dominion.

Only tnis year Merrill Denison has
received what is a striking tribute to
the national value of his work. He has
been engaged by the Canadian National
Railwa*s to write a series of one-act
plays for radio presentation and this
winter they are being broadcast over
a chain of radio stations extending
from coast to coast. Still, in spite of
this, the wonder of it is that Merrill
Denison is generally so little known.
Honour is given, and rightly, to him
who saves the life of a fellow man;
then how much more honour is due to
him who preserves for future generations the life of his country. Such
a one is Merrill Denison—a patriot,
who feels his country’s increasing
nee and would tell it to the world.

et honour be given unto
artist and a true Canadian.

him—an

J. CLYDE DOUGLAS,
io

With the interfaculty indoor meet

the intercollegiate meet and a possible

dual meet with the Wanderers in the

early spring to look forward to, there

should be lots of incentive for Dal
housians to make the track team this
year.

January 28th, 1981

Patriotism.

ee

 

Patriotism in the national spnere is
somewhat comparable to college spirit
in the university life. Both seem to
occasion many distorted ideas. The
student who chants himself hoarse at
every hockey, football or other game,
is often regarded as the embodiment
of the true college spirit just as exclusive criteria have hen adopted. in
the national life, as a standard for the
true patriot. People are afraid of
being called unpatriotic. Such a halo
nas been placed around patriotism
that a person advocating a material
departure from the generally accepted
standard is regarded almost as a
traitor, As a result most peopie
avoid thinking and a position on the
question and merely adopt tne old
principle.

Many regard passive submission
and contented ignorance as essential
qualities of patriotism. Often a person
who shudders at anothers criticism
of his nations policy will snun any
attempt to become inteligent on the
affairs (either external or internal), of
his nation. So tbe world has drifted
on, generation after generation, repeating, except in periods of slight
revulsion for war:— ‘Dulce et decorum
est pro patria mori.’ Dying for one’s
country may be or may not be the
highest expression of true patriotism.
All respect and honour are due those
who with bravery and sincerity, have
died as a result of this conception.
This is no argument, however, for
perpetuating tne old idea. Patriotism
can find just as higa expression in
the attitude and conduct of a citizen
as regards the international relations
of hiscountry. This aspect of patriotism is often disregaided. The Swiss
are said to be the most patriotic people
in the world. To a yreat extent they
subjugate personal honour and achievement, to a desire to do what is best for
Switzeriand. This, too, is one, but
not the only mark of the true patriot
Patriotism is an attitude towards a
nation as regards its relations with
other countries and as regards the
problems within the state itself.

Now, in days of peace, is the time to
establish a saner view. It cannot be
done without some thought. Even
university students will not take the
trouble to find a position which they
can justify. It is easier to fall in, with
the old conception. It calls for less
effort. On the other hand, as compared with the active supporters of
the old idea is the great number of
passive supporters of a wider view.
These are almost as fatal as the former
class to tne formation of new opinion
on the question. Much is said today
of international mindedness. Be a
cosmopolite is the ery. Only by understanding the problems or other natious
can people come to sympathize with
the difficulties of other countries.
Such a knowledge and sympathy will
be of material assistance to Canadian
citizens in eStablishing their attitude
towards Canada’s conduct in relation
to those countries. Only thus can
they know whether their country’s
action is worthy of approval.

Most of the influences which shape
the opinion of people today aie used
to maintain the old tradition of patriotism, The public school, the press and
the pulpit could be used effectively
to instil and advocate true patriotism,
The text books, especially the histories.
used in Canadian pubiic schools, mist
be changed. ‘The minds of the children
become seeped on the ieda that tbeir
country, if indeed ever in the wrong,
must be upheld. The great majority
retain the same idea on reaching
maturity, never attempting to think
out an opinion which could be called
their own. Such persons, of course,
should be encouraged to~ establish
their own views, but if they will not
it will be much better that the feeling
which they have been taught and which
they cail an opinion, should embrace
the true meaning of patriotism, National history is important but universal
history should be given a large place.
Why should, (as is done in histories),
the obviously false be taugnt to anyone?

The greater part of the press fears
radicalism. With the least provocation
on the part of another nation, it sheds
much of its common sense and takes
on a garb of unreasoned sentiment.
Canada at once becomes a country
worth dying for, while hitherto it was
not worth living for. All at once the
press becomes concerned for the honour
of its country.

Nor can the pulpits acquit itself of
much cant in this regard. In 1922
when Great Britain and Turkey became
unfriendly, pulpit orators sought to
infhame Canadian citizens to active
participation in support of the empire,
lt mattered not that such clergymen
were ignorant of the facts regarding
the threatened clash. It was enough
that another country had dared te
oppose the ambitions and desires of
their country or empire. A f.w feeble
and casual remarks are aimed at war
in general each year in the churches.
Then when wer does come the church
pretends to hate that very thing
which it could have done much to
prevent. If the pulpit would realize
its opportunity and its responsibility
much progress could be made in Canada
towards eifecting a saner public opinion
on the question of patriotism.

If these means which have been
suggested are used, one incentive to
war will be lessened. Doing what is
in the best interests of one’s country
is surely true patriotism. The conflict
of opinion must often arise as to what
is the best course for the nation. An
honest attempt to discover it, is better
than subscription to the brand of
patriotism which has been practiced
for centuwiies, A new patriotism must
be preached. It must be talked about
and it must be practiced, It is worth
a trial in the effort to increase international sympathy and cooperation,

 

wee

         
    
 

       
       
    
   
     
    
       
      
     
    
     
      
 
      
    
          
         
   
        
    
      
       
   
    

ds
    
   
  
 

- se
7 Th

_ Dalhousie Defeats Y. M. C. A. In
_ Opening of Basketball League

F “) wad - : - ;
Team gets away to early lead— All players turn in
brilliant performance—Davidson high scorer

, an
oth '
Es =

i <

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
    
    
     
  
   
 
   
  
 

¢

iE rr
Wat a,

woo.
ity yh

‘
oe
*
eit
* " ‘
r

7,
PAS...
Diy
a © ls
ie < a!
a

rf

*, Opponents from the floor,
Mei Dalhousie Tigers, under
we ©Captain,Don McRae, walk=' ed away from the Y. M.
* C. A. Gym on Saturday
fy evening, with a 383 to 22
—» victory over the Associame) tion quintet for Dalhousie's
| initial appearance in the
Halifax City Senior Bask
-,._. etball League. Scoring two
Davidson baskets for four points in

the first minute of play and then settling down and gradually piling up
their lead, the Dal team, composed
of the same plavers that won the
City League title last year, played
one of their best games in the opening period to .ive them a twelve

oint lead at half time. Going careully in the second half, they maintained their advantaye throughout
were never seriously threatened and
came out on top, 33 to 22.

The forward line with McRae at
centre and Davidson and Fairstein on
the wings worked brilliantly. David
gon was high scorer in the game, his

   
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
     
 

/
Fe Mi" f

ma)

; .
‘ «
i

£34

4
eis
oF

4.

|

By

4 Pia '
i

Lh)
met ‘i.

hy | OA

place, played a nice game, and scored

‘- . Watt
ts (= =4
MA es
. Sie
i ey *

ra
Oa he
4 .

yi : Dal.

and while a little off in his snc
more than made it up in his getting

 

_ League,
fnen ans

son r
gets two points. Young
scores two more. Dav
ball bounds into the basket.

oy work under the basket being deadly,

he passed to perfection and cnecked
back well, playing his first strong
defensive game, He tallied 13 points.
Sam Fairstein played one of his best
games since coming to Dal. His
shooting was particularly accurate, he
covered the floor at a marvellous pace
and was a continuous source of worry
to the opposing guards, Scoring 9

ints. Sam was directly responsible
ie a great number more. It looks as
if he were in for a big season. Don
McRae played a great game at centre,
is shooting, he

the tip offs at centre, thus enabling
the Dal plays to start toward the
tim McRae, who is one
cleanest players in the City
and the misfortune of beino
ed with four persoral fouls, and
) retire from the eame shortly
- the midale of the second period.
uncan McKenzie, who took his

of the

   
 
    
   
 
   

  

on one of the nicest shots of the game.
-Woile all of the plavers were going good,
perhaps what was most directly re
sponsible for the victory was the fast
breaking of the forward line as a whole
and their equally speedy back checking
after they had lost the ball. They

- showed a marked superiority over their

opponents in this respect.
he guards, Handler and Anderson,

were going great guns. The Y. forward line time after time attempted to
get in close for shots at the baskets,
but were frustrated almost every time,
and finally resorted to shooting from
outside the defence. Chariie Anderson’s long shots, were working to perfection and one of them starting the
scoring for Dal. Harry Handler played up to his usual high standard, his
play making being one of the features
of the game. Handler to Fairstein to
McRae to Davidson was responsible
for the majority of Dal’s scores.

Anderson opened the score when he
shot from centre floor and the ball
went cleanly through the hoop. Davidson made it 4 to 0 before the end of the
first minute when he scored from under
the basket. Hill and Young each got
one for the Y to even up matters. It
was the only time that they were up to
Davidson scores again, Anderson
gets one point on a penalty throw,
Davidson gets a big cheer, when he
puts the University 5 points up with
another basket. The Y. get started
again with two points by Young.
Fairstein retaliates with a score. McRae gets one for his team on a foul
shot. Archibald gets one point for the
Association. Fairstein and Davidson
go on a scoring spree once more just
before the end of the half. Sam gets
two points and then Harold gets three.
When the timers gun ends the period
the score board reads Dalhousie 19,
¥_M. CvA., 7.

The Y. starts out well in the second
period, when they cut four points off

the lead. Hill playing
centre gets the firstscore, qu
and Hamilton accounts | 4
for the second. Their | 74

chances look a little |
better; but only for a ©
couple of minutes. Fair- 99%
stein adds two points to
Dal’s score, the result of
a beautiful play. Young
gets one point. Daviddoes one better and

 

idson not to be out done
drops in another two, McRae
after a penalty throw, and Young

 

 

  

   

 

 

Se) With an opening rally| Duncan McKenzie goes in his place.
* that literally swept their | He scores one for Dal on a free throw.

Hamilton does the same for the Y.
McKenzie gets two points on a lovely
shot. Dal leads now by 13 ints
82 to 19 with only a couple of minutes
of play remaining. Young gets a
basket for the Y. Hamilton adds
another point to end their scoring at
22 and just before the gun goes, Fairstein scores on a penalty shot to give
Dala total of 33.

C. S. Perry and Bev Piers referred.

Individual scores follow:

Dalhousie
H. Davidson 1
S. Fairstein
D. McKenzie
D. McRae, Capt
H. Handler
C. Anderson
N. Brittain
H. Kennedy

¥; M; C2-AG
C, Smith
B. Beazley
S. Youn
L. Archibald
J. Hill
G. Hamilton
Ce
F,

COrKOoHHEHE.
Comowwom


—
CORRE OD.

Winchombe
Smith

COonoHHCSo”

 

Dalhousie Intermediates Win
Twice

 

With a complete reversal from the
form displayed the previous week,
the Dal Intermediates came into their
own last Thursday night at the Studley
Gym, when tney gained a victory over
St. John’s by a 19 to 12 score in a
reguiar scheduled fixture of the Halifax
City Intermediate Basketball League.
With a slow first period in which the
winners scored only two baskets and
their opponents one, the game developed into a nice exhibition in the second
half when Dal outscored their opponents 15 to 10. Playing the brand of
basketball, of which they are capable,
the winners walked away from St.
John’s, and shortly after the period
started the issue was no longer in
doubt, Dal piled up a comfortabie
lead, but slowed up somewhat in the
last few minutes of play aliowing their
opponents to score a number of points.

“tex Nickirson played his usual
good game, being high scorer in the
game with 10 points. He covered
the floor well and was particularly
adept in penetrating th2 detznce for
close in shots that were sure tallies.
Charlie Lorway piaying his first game
of the season seemed to be a big heip
to the team. He scored 6 points and
was directiy responsible for a large
number more. O’Brien played a good
game, but aad hard luck on his shots.

The teams lined up as follows:—

Dathousie—O Brien, Richardson,
Nickerson (10), Lloy (2), Lorway (6),
McSween, Thompson, Clarke (1).

St. John’s—Vail (3), Payzant (7),
Stockaul, Tattrie, McDonald J., McDonaid K. (2), Lipsett, Marshall,
isenor, Cox.

ee

Dalhousie Intermediates took their
second straight victory in the City
intermediate Basketbail League when
‘they deteated tne strong St. George’s
Aces by a 21 to 6 score at tne Y. Gym
on Saturday evening. Getting away
to a good start, tney heid their opponents scoreiess in the first haif, with the
exception of one lone basket scorea
irom centre floor. On the other hana
they were successiul in coilecting 12
points themseives. ‘The work of Nickerson, Lorway and kKichardson was
Outstanding in this period as weil as
in the next haif, when Dai addea
another 9 points to her scoie. Ati ot
ihese torwards piayed nice combination, broke quickiy when the opportunity presented itseif and checked back
fast. McSween and Clark were strong
on the defensive, the St. George s team
huding it practicatiy impossibie to
break through towards the basket.
The team as a whoie is now a smooth
working combination and should go
lar on their way towards the champicnship.

Alex Nickerson was again high
scorer of the ‘game collecting 10 points
for his team. His work around the
opposing basket was exceptionally
eflective. McLellan, who played a
nice game, had 4 points to his credit.
Richardson was next with 8. Webb

scores again for the Y. The teams|and Croucher did the scoring for St,

were playing fairlv
oiut, Fairstein puts another two on
al’s total. Young working hard

even at .this| George’s the former getting two baskets

and the latter one.
Dalhousie—O'Brien, Richardson (8),

scores a minute later. McRae gets} Nickerson (10), McLellan (4), Lioy (2),

credit for a score for Dal, when one of
the Y. guards intercepts a pass and the
Shortly
after McRae gets his fourth personal

and has to retire from the game.

7

arta McSween, Thompson, Clark
(2). |

St. Georg.s—Miller, Grey, Francis,
oy Webb (4), Mitchell, Croucher (2).

From Tigers
On Soft Ice

Team shows improvement over recent
years

 

The Halifax City Hockey League
got away to a good start when the fast
skating Wanderers team dcf-a.cd the
Dalhousie Tigers, befure a crcwd of
Over 8UU specta ors, to the tune vt 4-1.

Although the ice was very soft
and covered with heavy, watery slush
there was a good deal of nice puck
carrying and poke checking, at the
latter the Dal forwards were there,
especially in the last period when they
checked the Wanderers dizzy.

Just before the game ,the Tigers
named Hughey Martin as their captain. Anyone who has seen Hughey
in action knows he is a cool head to
direct the attack, and he came thrutc
score Dal’s only goal in this game

Oyler, Tom Foley and Bernie Eaton
started on the line for Dal but were
slow in getting warmed up. Whereas
the Wanderers led by George MacKay
and Rainnie, two former Wolverine
players, started from the gong at full
speed and showed some nice combination work, but they were stopped often
by Jack Buckley and Hal Connors,
who played great defensive hockey for
the Yellow and Black. After’ ten
minutes Rainnie dented the twine
for the Reds on a nice piece of work
combined with Taylor. George MacKay duplicated the next minute.
Ike Smith, playing his first game of
senior hockey, had no chance to save
on cither score. Smith wentdown
on his face time and again to save
shots that were labelled. The first
ended 2-0. Smith stopping 5 to
Edwards 6. Jack McDougall got the
only penalty and it was weil deserved.

Dal came out trying and trying hard
to even the score in the second period
but the punch did not come until 10
minutes and 20 seconds after the gong
when from a mixup in front of the
net Coleman passed to Hughey who
shoved it home. Wanderers came
right back and scored one to keep two
ahead, Both sides now put on speed
and but for the condition of the iceit
would have been a nice exhibition.
As it was Buckley went from end to
end and narrowly missed scoring on
two occasions.

in the third period the snarling
Tigers had the Reds boxed in their
own defense area and it was not for
the want of trying that they did not
score. Eaton took a trip to the cooler
for two minutes when one of the refs
got his eyes crossed. Martin, Taylor
and Coleman ably relieved the first
line and flashed some nice work in the
corners and back checking. Many
Passes came out from the corners but
Over anxiousness got the better of
them,

Under Hughey Martin's direction
the squad is fast rounding into shape
and Dal should take the Wanderers
intO camp when they meet again.
At last the students are getting behind
the hockey team. Several cheers were
heard. Let’s hear more of them.

 

    

TO STUDENTS!

Have you visited our combination Barber Shop and Beauty
Parlor. Separate entrance for
ladies and gentlemen
Permanent Waving, Finger Waving

Marcelling, Manicuring, etc. Only expert male and female operators employed

Roy Bldg

SHIELDS °°

B6748

 

Championship
Form to Win

5-2

Dal’s defence woefully |

weak—Buckley and
Foley score

 

     

    

—

Wanderers Win |St. Mary’s Show

| St. Mary’s launching a three man
offensive, splitting the defense wide
open and Chris Grant, who was easily
the best man for the red and white

going thru to put his team two up.
The Dal forwards spent too much time
digging in the corners which on
numerous occisions left the defense to
handle the vicious attack. Jerry Coleman did some great poke checking in
| this period and carried the puck well
but there was no one to receive his
passes and many opportunities to
score were lost. St. Mary’s fourth
score came on a pass out from the
{corner fur Jimmy Eagen to push it in.
Jack Buckley scored the second Tiger
counter from a long shot beyond the

Dalhousie Tigers lost to St. Mary’s, blue line.

in their first game of the Intercollegiate
League before a crowd of 500 enthusi
The niccst score of the game came as
a result of a lone try by Eagen who

astic fans who were treated to a good wended his way through the entire
exhibition of fast skating, combination *4™ to slip it by Ike Smith,

play and excelient checking. Aithough
the final score was 5-2 it dues not indicate the cleseness of play. St.
Mary’s got two counters in the first
period and had the advantage of piay
over their opponents who as usual
were late in getting started. However
the Tigers came back strong in the
second stanza and had the game well
in hand, breaking up the attack of the
Red and White Collegians, and retaliating with an offensive that was
only heid in check by some nice work
on the part of the goalie.

Tommy Foley got the first marker
for the Gold and Black when he
coasted down the right wing, drew the
defense and shot a swift one in the
upper corner that the goalie hardiy
saw. Jack Buckley, playing centre,
started many plays but due to passing
the puck at inopportune moments the
rival defense were able to smother the
play. Jack was a marked man and
whenever he tried to ride through
alone he was met with heavy checking.

The second period ended 2-1. It
looked as if the Tigers had the game
in the bag.

The third period started away

faster than the preceeding ones with

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

G. A. McDonald}

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

21 Spring Garden Road

 

 

 

 

 

You can laugh at

WINTER ina
NATIONAL Overcoat !

The new overcoats are waiting for you—
in every authentic style, every fashionable fabric and coloring, and sizes to fit

every man,
regular.

short, tall, stout, thin or

Come to National — then see

the others — the value at National will
quickly bring you back.

ONE
PRICE
ONLY

S23

National Clothes Shops

446 BARRINGTON ST.

 

Limited

« of ¥ ae ,
on eC a Fo

{ Corie: Vey.
i, <a Be

iP us en iin, ’
ye wahd A i ae
: 4 fea pra y ii

Let
Ae

on fe)
é ca ‘.

3

ps

|
)

i

Jerry Coleman and Eaton were the
pick of the Goid und Black, while
|Grant and Eagan were the pick of St.
| Mary’s.

Dal line up,--Smith, Goal; Stanfield
and Connor, defense; Buckley, Oyler,
Foley, Coleman, Eaton, Taylor, forwards,

every time,
they are
blended right.

 

 

Winchest

   

Interfaculty
Basketball

The opening games of the Interfaculty Basketball League were played
at the Studley Gym on Saturday afternoon, when Commerce defeated Dentistry 15 to 14, Theology defeated
Medicine 15 to 18 in overtime, Freshmen won from Arts and Science 25 to
13 and Law captured an exhibition
contest from Engideers 11 to 7

In the first game between Commerce
and]Dentistry,the former teamed at half
time 9 to 3. Dents gradually reduced
the lead in the second half and when
the final whistle blew they were only
one point behind. McMullin was high
scorer in the game with 8 points.
Hart was high for Commerce with 6
points,

Line up:

Commerce—G. Thompson, C. Miller,
H. Thompsoa, M. Ross, L. Hart (6)
B. Hatfield (4), B. Stoddard (4).

Dentistry—Duxbury (4), McMullin
(8), Chaisson, Harris, Parker (1),
Mcintosh (1), Peters, Clough.

Continued on page 6.

 

Twenty for
25 cents

Twelve for
15 cents

er

CIGARETTES

 

Poker Hand in each package of 20

 

 

rich, strong and exclusive.

The New

Fall Society Brand

styles are advanced, correct and
distinguished. The woolens are

The

workmanship is the last word in
quality and expertness, and includes exclusive tailoring features
like the SNUG-EASE SHOULDER
and the VAC BLOC ARMHOLE
You obtain greater value for your dollar in Scciety
Brand Clothes than in any other make we know of

Winter - Burns, Ltd

439 BARRINGTON STREET.
—TIis the cui of your cloihes tha. counis—

 

 

 

 

a
vw
ee

 

BIRKS

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax.

 

 

    

 

 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED :

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

 

ee

 

 

 
 
  
  
   

 

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

ed fo
i” \ Pia Oc | ye Pigg
Sa

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.
Write °r call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 
   
 
    
 
   
  
 
    
   
   
 
    
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

 

~

U. S.--- \Dalhousie Defeats
_ Advantages it | All Star Outfit.
Me Fela kyo then gg eytap ays eceeeger |

aes ; am Dalhousie. _ |feated an All or outfit from the re
 
  
 
 

  
   
 

  
  
     
    
    
   
    
   
   
   
    
        
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
     
     
 
  

 
  
  
    
 
 
  
    

 

 

a -. a
. raed
,

ea _ |maining teams in the City League by
in _. la score of 48 to 24 last Tuesday at
noon in the Gym at Studley. Getting
away to a slow start half time found
.|the collegians two points to the good
with the score board reading 15 to 13.
In the second half they went on a
scoring rampage that netted them 33
points to bring their total to 48, while
they were holding the opposition to
11 points for the half. Harold Davidson, star Pd ye pareianayy
ee ee Tae ara | 8 fective in this period scoring eleven
tages it has to offer to Dalhousie. ro (ec. 0% noints
ine sd). Di he adeual csetererice of the Federa-} °F ne Ce Davidson, McRae
a en which is held page the oe and Fairstein were outstanding. Dav, me lidays did not, unfortunately, idson was high scorer with 26 points,

   
  
   
    
  
  
    
  
  
    
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
    
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
       
  

ut a ‘Through the columns of the Gazette
I would like to draw the attention of
the Student Body to the functionings
of the National Federation of Canadian
niversity Students and the advan
place this year. The financial position }o5 oF which were made in the second
Bit edtation vas rot Ja Weta Mcktae wa tanner up vat 1
enya od) oer ae COE: Cor fer held in the points. Yor the All Stars, Arcniba!d
ares 2 by i peapes al ap opal d bythe had 8 points, Piers 7 ard Hull 6 points.
we NEC ah) a laced @ heavy seas Harold Hill and Ernie Richardson
upon that body from which it is just Beer ‘llowe:
—_ gecovering. As a result of the Con- Boece ut
_ ference not being held your represen-| 1) yy,ckensic........
tative is not as well qualified to present] po
Big the intricacies of the Peceration) (ae Phe WAWIGEOR 665 65) 0/55 ays 1

fer. ti Bese aps would be the case if the body|o "poe i,
fad met and had the advantages|>) y7 pi. 0)
derived from discussions of the business
Oe - at hand,

_ , “There are however, three outstandsing features being undertaken at the
present time: the Exchange of Under
- graduites. Scheme, Student's Overseas Tour, and purchase of athletic

 equipmer t.

Bat en a Pateard to the exchange of undergraduates, the object of the schem«
ay ‘js to permit specially selected student

-- ——— to. take a year’s work at another uni——s-versity in a different part of Canada.
ss The scheme has now been in effect
_—— for two years: during which several
--——s students have taken advantage of it

sand ~have voiced their appreciation to
mr A! the opportunities it affords. Any stuin dent, male or female, who is ipplying

for study in a university (other than a
university of the Maritime Provinces
~~ in the third year of his course or any
} ran year beyond the same provided that
" ee p. a Re is returning the following year to
re oe z. his home university is eligible, The
-——speriod of study at another university
_-——s under the exchange is one academic

ae year only. All applications must be
a eee yt ye the hands of the local selection comss mittee on or before the first day of
eae March, 1981. Dalhousie has not acat cepted the scheme for all time, but

a

oon bo
IO HRN OCR MONM

Cy Anderson j).)5 66 «65 2:
BG Memneay uy. 6c ie tse.
All Stars.

SroUrFWOR,
CHNFNO HOOWNOSCO

02

=

@

bee 3

na
COpmNwwtore
= me

.
Ma es erg

 

University Book
Store Statement.

The following figures are submitted
to the student body to indicate the
business of the University Store up to

January. 1931.
New Used

Books Books
$2338.91 $489.97
Students Income on

440.32

 

Sales

Used Books .
= Net Income on Used

49.65
Purchases

New Books.2238. 56

: ert Inventory
_ has agreed to give it one year strial. | Dec.31, ’30 203.58
_. The Second Annual University Un_dergraduate Tour to Europe arranged|C ost of
and directed by the N. F. C. U- S.| Books sold. 2034.98 $2034.98
will cover Scotland, England, Holland | Gross Profit on New
gium and France over a period of
thi Sous and at a cost of
.75, The tour will sail via CanaPacific from Montreal on June
and return about August 1. The
rary has been arranged to make a

7

—

 

115.97

Total Profit for period ending

DICCISE  LOOU as ates 2 Ok $165.62

On December 31, 1930, there were no
commercial accounts Payable outstanding, but there was due to students, on
account of Used Books, $29.71.

The committee is justified in feeling
particularly gratified that the store
should show such favourable results
when it is considered that it was
started without one cent of capital and
with a rather indefinite management
arrangement. We are now clear cf
all bills except the small amount due
students on Used Books, and there has
been no need of touching the $200
which was invested in November by
the Students Council.

The committee realizes that there
are possible many improvements in the
store which would make it more serviceable and of greater convenience to the
students. We feel, however, that for
a new business with no precedents on
which to base operations, and with
very little operating space, the store
has justified its existence. In addition
to the convenience to the students in
being able to secure their books on the
campus, it is necessary to consider the
actual money savings on the purchase
of the books. It is impossible to
arrive at a fighre which can be considered absolutely accurate, but we
estimate that the savings amount to at
one $700 and probably as much as

ne ey 115.97
| special appeal to students and the

ie.) 1): travellin; - accomodations on both sea

Bley oie and land have been planned with this
be rt motive in view. Applications must be
-——s« forwarded not later than April 30 to
i Pac - the travel secretary. Furt er infor~~~ mation will be gladly furnished by
‘our re presentative. i
Pursuant to an arrangement with
the firm of A. G. Spalding, Ltd., all
athletic equipment may be purchased
at wholesale prices from that firm.
It is hoped that in the future Dalhousie
will take advantage of the saving which
this offer undoubtedly provides.

The foregoing is merely a brief outline of the work which the Federation
has and is undertaking. One of the
most successful accomplishments of the
_N. F. C. U.S. is the debating tours
which it sponsors not only by arranging
debated between Canadian Universities
but also by bringing debating teams
into Canada from other countries.
Business which is now occupying the
attention of the executive includes
reduced railway fares for students,
correspondence exchanges, text-book
facilities, scholarships and loan schemes.

ee mw ol

Yours truly,
DONALD G. GRANT.
N. F. C. U.S. Representati:e.

 

We hope that the students will continue to patronize the store, not only
for books but also for confectionery and
supplies. It must be kebt in mind that
if it were not for the cooperation of the
Canadian Institute for the Blind, the

Miss Mildred Ritcey of Mt. Allison establishment of the store this year

re ; : Id have been impussible. We owe
was visiting her sister Fances Ritcey | ¥°" :
at Shirreff Hall. their representative, therefore, a cer
tain debt, payable in patronage and

Hall News.

Gertrude Ells, member of Class '34,
through a regretable illness, has had
to go to her home in Buston.

We hear that one of the Freshettes | S00dWill.

entertained at tea Tuesday afternoon, boa WL MaxDON ALD
in the first floor wing sitting room DRRA MacKAY .
om honor of a guest from Ottawa. M. M. RANKIN.

Fortunately for the hostess a couple

of boxes were received from home
TO-DAY and THURSDAY

larder. Tea was served at five o'clock.
Kid”

with
JOHN MACK BROWN

 

 

 

FRIDAY and SATURDAY

“A Devil with the

9
Women
with
VICTOR MCLAGLEN

baffled all analysis.
most intemperate, immoral and extravagant age
Yet he was never known to be drunk;
his married life was unimpeachable;
when he died he had the first money
which he earned, five thousand pounds
“for services rendered” to the Duchess
of Cleveland, favourite of the Merry
Monarch. The terror of half Europe,
he was a dandy with the manners of a
fop and the voice of a young girl A
man born to camps and fighting, he
fainted once, at Malplaquet, at the
sight of blood. The most treacherous
of mankind, he spurned the highest
bribe ever offered to any politicians
in that corrupt age.

is the author’s thesis that the secret of

a woman with the face of an angel
and the temper of a spitfire. Without
the assistance of her ambitions the

“He was an astounding piece of mechanism. The electrical
were there, but the current was lacking.’
sey. supplied the currert
If the Duchess spurred her husband
to the heights, it is well, however, to
remember that she cost him his political
destruction.
at the hands of the Harley clique was
made possible by the enmities which
the Duchess aroused
tongue and stupendous pride.

analysis, the work is not impressive.

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Marlborough

Continued From page 4 Col. 3

cession are graphic, accurate as far as

the accounts in the heavier books.

Mr. Chidsey’s account of Blenheim

) 4. would make a valuable introduction

. to Hilaire Bellec’s little book on that

The contradictions in his character | battle. No effort is made to estimate

He lived in the Marlborough’s military genius. The

pete oe if invidious task of settling

: ish history. | the question of primacy between him
in Enghis 2. |and Wellington is not attempted.

 

Mr. Chidsey’s book cannot be regarded as our definite life of Marlborough. He admits, with a modesty
becoming his twenty-eight years, that
it is a parasite’s book, founded on the
labours of other men. It mayhelp
to dissipate the blackness which has
settled around the figure of the Great
Duke. In his Introductions (p. xi)
the author fastens the blame for a

larity on Macaulay, who is accused of
accepting as true any material vituperative of the Duke. Such may have
been one effect of Macaulay’s History.
but it is doubtful if it was the opinion of
Lord Macaulay himself. In support of
this view, Trevelyar is a most respectable witness, In Clio, p. 168, he writ«s:
‘‘Antithesis was dear to him not only
in the composition of his sentences hut
in the delineation of his character
It was with him a matter not of politics
but of unconscious instinct to contrast
as vividly as possible the selfishness
with the genius of Marlborough. But,
unfortunately, he lived to comnlete
only the least important and pleasing
half of the picture. He had blocked
in only too well the black background,
but died before he came to the red coal
and eagle eye of the victor of Blenheim. If Macaulay had lived another
five years, Marlborough would now
enjoy the full mead of admiration and
gratitude still denied him by his
countrymen’s little knowledge of what
he did.”

Interesting as a piece of speculation

Marlborough’s success was the Duchess

Duke would have remained John
Churchill, a plain country gentl man

connections

Sarah Jennings, says Mr. Chis(p. 185).

Marlborough’s disgrace

by her sharp
From the standpoint of strategical

The descriptions of the major engagements of the War of the Spanish Suc
 

 

      

Little Willie
wants to know
when we’re
having a

Real Glee
Club Show

ee 4
S\i6

oS ]

      
   

a)

a

  

Se
Y;

' |
i

ae atk

‘i
s

COO

 

 

 

 

 

 
    
         
       
         
   

DRUGS || CASINO

Thur-Fri-Sat Jan. 29-30-31

BILL HAINES
with
LEILA HYAMS
POLLY MORAN
CLIFF EDWARDS

“WAY OUT WEST”

WEEK OF FEB. 2
First 2 Days
JOE E. BROWN

“GOING WILD”

Last 4 Days
MARIE DRESSLER
POLLY MORAN

“REDUCING”

 

STUDENTS SUPPLIES

MacLeod-Balcom, Ltd

CHEMISTS

OPPOSITE

Bank of Nova Scotia

AND

St. Andrew’s Church

 
 

GOOD EQUIPMENT
For Good Athletes
Those whv demand the
best in Sporting Equipment unanimously agree
that our goods cannot be

Where after 9
the Show °

A Hot or Cold Drink
An Ice Cream

or a Light Lunch

The eae Lantern

 

TEA DANSANT |

4to 6p. m.

every Saturday Afternoon
Cover Charge $ .50 Service A la Carte

SUPPER DANCE |

9 to 12 p. m.
every Saturday Night
Cover Charge $ .75 Service A la Carte

APPOINTMENTS AND SERVICE PERFECT FOR ALL |Il|f
TYPES OF FUNCTIONS AT |

The Lord Nelson Hotel

**The Social Centre’’ |

 

 

rg ee ; : A ae
{ ‘ ‘. Failky - 4 5

they go, and more easily followed than I nt erf acult VY

_ The Theolog-Medicine tussle went] time, but the
into overtime before a winner could be} strong in the second period scoring 6
decided. There was very little scoring] points to their opponents 1, bringing
in the first period. Medicine led 5 to2|the total final score 11 to 7 in their
at half time.
strong in the second session and =vened| 5 points
the score before the final whistle. In :
the overtime, Theolgs scored 5 pointe

and Medicine three.
victors 15 to 13.
scorer with 6 points, while Sullivan
and Piercey each had 5 points.

The Freshmen team walked away
from Arts and Science by a 25 to 18
score,
the game and were never threatened

large share of Marlborough’s unnopu- - ie time they were 5 points ahead’
o 7.

ew

, oi ae, *
.* } i i ~ A t
ihn St! Mite ee rs A, a ed z

January 28th, 1981

 

scored the opposition this time 13 to 6.
Goldberg was high scorer for the winners accounting for 11 points.

Law won from Engineers in the final
game of the afternoon, an exhibition
affair. Engineers led 6 to 5 at half
Lawers came back

Theologs came back} favor, Finalyson was high scorer with

The former were
Mickson was high

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

Theyled the whole way|through

In the second half they out

 

The man in one of our Tuxedos
can rest assured that he is correctly and distinctively dressed.
It is the COLWELL clothed
men who shine at all College
functions. (i@) os sia ie =

We have now on display

TUXEDO SUITS -3..2%. $29.50
with VEST - - $34.50

FELELECL ESTES PEP D

Colwell Brothers
Limited
453 Barrington Street

   

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons
or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

 

 

Canterbury
SHOES FOR MEN
Pair $9.00

We are proud of the Canterbury Shoe—it is so good looking
and wears so well, yet it is very moderately priced. Styles
include both boots and oxfords, made from fine quality
black and brown and kid leather. Widths from AA to EE
and sizes 54 to 11.

 
 

EATON (CO

ot RITIM Es

— Se

Eaton's Second Floor

m wy ‘ - ae +) F

    
 

 

 

 

 
