i. Ss

Oe Ae et eee mend ORs
Sey ee

“ atk —_ es

se + nA
<< = he SO 2 ee eg cee .
: z

i

as ’
oe) eee

— = >
’
. »

‘

a Ss
*
Past,

—
E

Official Congrat
ey
tin
+

Ie alates Dal
| & Writes in glowing terms
. % of Big Jim’s showing

a

# ~—s at: Dominion Cham3% §._— pionships.

Me The Editor of College Paper.
i Dalhousie University,

_ Halifax, Nova Scotia.

&% Even at this late date, I cannot

2%. help writing you in regard to the
Sy excellent showing made by the
&@ Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club’s
@% representative, Mr. Jim McLeod,
at the Dominion Championships
if and British Empire Games Trials
~ held last August.

Imight say that Mr. McLeod put
ti? 4every effort into his fight, which
was very, very close. It certainly
y .was a hard fight to lose after hav' img shown such remarkable ability.
} I wish to congratulate the DalAhousie Amateur Athletic Club on
the type of man, whom they sent
to represent them.
We, also, feel grateful to the
College for enabling him to participate in the Championships and
trust that, at any future date when
Hamilton is favored with the Championships, that your club will be
able to send more men, such as the
type of Mr. McLeod. He proved
himself a gentleman outside and

in the ring.

He was a worthy representative
@Z of the Maritime Provinces and we
- S$ wish to express our heartfelt thanks
kif to you, who sent him.

a
a

Pa

Sincerely yours, —

JAS. W. TRESIDDER,
Chairman B. E. Games,

_ Boxing and Wresiling
Comenttlee.

~

@ | Gazette to issue a

Literary Supplement

In an earty issue after Christmas,

, the editors of the Gazette are planning
tosnsert a full page Literary Suppiement. This is designed to. encourage the production. of worth-while
writing of @ more serious nalure.
Au those possessing ilerary talent
are urged to contribute to this number
of the Gazelie. Further announcement relating to this special edition
wsli be made following the holidays,

% Praised for
: Fine Showing

= Boxing Committee| Biology Club holds

Field T rip

The Biology Club held its first field
trip on last Saturday afternoon, when
an expedition was formed for the purpose of studying native trees in winter,

The party met at the foot of Oakland
Road, and crossed to the opposite
shore of the Arm, whence they proceeded through the bushes and briers to the
top of ‘‘Castle Frank,” a high hill
over-looking the Arm and the western
end of the city.

Here Dr. Hugh Bell gave a brief
but interesting account of the methods
of identifying some common native
trees and shrubs, after they had lost
their leaves in the autumn

After rolling and sliding down the
rocky face of ‘‘Castle brank’’ the
party found its way through several
miles of dense primeval forest, having
Many exciting adventures with bogholes, barbed wire, and slippery rocks,
until finally emerging somewhere near
Kiine Heights, a hait was called: for
supper.

A fire was built, water put on to Qoil,
and then Jim Cox, the convenor of the
refreshment committee, pleasantly surprised the club members by producing
ham sandwiches, instead of the usual
doughnuts.

An exciting diversion was provided
here when some of the boys undertook
to run down a rabbit. ‘Lhe chase led
away over the hills in the general
direction of the Provincial Capital,
but, true to form the quarry ran in a
circle, and it was not many minutes
before the exhausted _ bunny came
limping back into camp, just six feet
ahead of its pursuers. it finally escaped by the rather unsportsmanlike
method of ducking under a pile of
stones,

After supper the party groped their
way down through the dusk to the
Armdale car line and rode off home
for a second meal,’

Freshman Class
Party

_. Class ‘84 held their first party at
Shirreff Hall on the evening of Monwere

day, November 24th, There
about 125 present including many of the
King’s Freshmen. The chaperones
were Miss Anna MackKeen, Dr. and
Mrs. Hugh Beil.and Mr. Kalph Ells.
The invited guests were Don Grant,
Bill Jost, Charlie Lorway and Dick
Squires, but unfortunately the first two
were unable to be present. T. D.
Sadler and his music provided many
delightful dances. ‘Lo add variety to
the evening the programme was interspersed with novelties, one of which
the elimination dance Was won by
Helen Murphy and Con Sutherland,
who received a box of Moirs XXX Chocolates. Supper was served at ll.
The party broke up at 12.30 after a
most suceessiul, though informal evening.

Among those present were{—Ruth
Crandali, Fran Foster, Betty March,
lrene Bennett, Dot Bezanson, Isobel
Cox, Dot Webster, Pat Cruscen, Joan
Henderson, Edith Goodman, Gretchen
Brow, Adele Ritchie,

Marg Sadler,

|

LET THIS BE

A WARNING

Seniors Defeat Juniors
In Inter-class Debate

Qualify for Finals Third Successive

Year---All Speakers were
Excellent

As a result of their win over the
Juniors, Helen Champion and Rae
McCarthy, Senior debaters, Jean Morton and Bob Donald, will meet Sophomores for the Bennett Shield finals:
sometime in January. The subject
was: ‘‘Resolved that the influence of
the United States upon Canada has
increased, is increasing, and ought to be
diminished.” Despite the inclement
weather a fair crowd of listeners turned
out in anticipation of a well prepared
and interesting contest, and they were
not disappointed. An admirable precedent was established in that most of
the arguments employed were on the
subject. We hope this innovation will
be continued in the future

Bob Donald, considered the resolution from the political and economic
point of view. Atthe time of Confederation the American influence was felt
to some extent, as witnessed by the
similarity in Constitutions. But the
Civil Service was Lritish until later
when the American ‘‘spoils system’

crept in. Other innovations are the

Commission and City Manager plans

of civic government; and the referendum, plebiscite, initiative and recall
have in turn appeared. These innovations are all as foreign to the spirit of
our Constitution as they are inherent
in American theory.

United States investments in Canada
are continually increasing and so
American influence increases in proportion.

_ Canada often follows America’s lead
in international affairs, Canada tends
to become more aloof, and to follow a
policy of “‘No entangling Alliances.”

Most of these tendencies are undesirable.. The patronage system is obviously evil. Then again the referendum
and the initiative and so on are foreign
to the spirit of responsible government
and necessarily attract to office a lower
type of man than would otherwise offer.

Rae McCarthy, negative, went on
to say that,although there are many

(Continued on page 4),

The Order of, Good Cheer.

By Audrey P, Ryan.

"Twas Yuletide at Port Royal and through all the forest dense and tall

@

Phi Delta Phi has| Debating Trials to®

Initiation

Weldon Inn, Dalhousie Chapter of
the International Legal Fraternity of
Phi Delta Phi, held their first initiation
ceremony and dinner of the year at the
Lord Nelson Hotel on Monday evening,
Nov. 24, when the following initiates
were admitted to membership—Gerald
Coleman, James Fairbanks, Jack Crowe
Robert Donald, john A. Y. MacDonald
and Gerald Stewart.

Following the ceremony, the members
of the Inn took their places at the
banquet table, with Hon. Mr. Justice
Urde, of the Appellate Division of the
euperior Court of ,Ontario. It is
needless to add that the repast was up
to the usual high standard of this wellknown hostelery,

instead of the usual custom of having
a lengthy toast-list, the speeches were
marked by their quality rather than
quantity. the President, Kaeburn F,
VMicCunn, made a speech of welcome
to the new Brothers, which was replied
to, by John A. Y. MacDonald.

Yhen the treat of the evening was
presented, when Mr. McCunn, in a
very happy manner introduced the
principal speaker, Mr. Justice Orde,
who spoke in reminiscent vein. He
told ot the differences between his legal
education, by hard, practical work, and
the present day method of learning it
iM Classrooms, pointing out to those
present the advantages and disadvantages of each. In the course ot his
remarks, he took advantage of the
opportunity to deliver some helpiul
advice to his hearers, on the question
of their future, in the practice of their
proiession. The distinguished speaker
closed his remarks with some witty
stories of actual happenings in court
rooms, with which he was personally
acquainted, to the great amusement of
the assembly.

Aiter a vote of thanks, moved by
F, A. Macintyre, seconded by G. M.
Graham, and passed amid great appiause, the gathering dispersed with
the singing ot the National Anthem,

Pine Hill Notes

With the posting of exam time-tables
events at Fine Hill have become few
and far between. Long faces are the

order of the day, and midnight oil the |

order of the night. Even the freshmen
theologs are being forced to realize that
the Fail term at Dal is not simply a
continuation of the summer vacation,

One oi the bright spots since the last

Gazette was the first appearance of the |

Pepper Box under the supervision of the
Eastor tor this year, Darrell Donaldson.
The official organ maintains and even
improves its customary high standard.
All items are copyrighted—hence no
exchanges.

_ Despite the fact that, ever since an
interfaculty softball league was organized at Dal, Pine Hill Residence
has been represented by at least one
team, this year, by some previously
unnoticed or disregarded subsection,
the Residence is ineligible. However,
emulating I. C, R., the boys are taking
their ruling-out philosophically, and

'

Held After

Xmas

nr

Teams to be chosen to debate against Mt. Allison
and Porto Rico—Subject Announced

Sodales will be host to two visitg
ing debating teams next term.
Mt. Allison representives will
be in Halifax on a date to be decided
later. The University of Porto
Rico is sending a debating team to
Canada in the early spring and
Dalhousie will entertain them about March 10th. The subject for
The Porto Rican contest has not as
yet been received from their debating
society. However, those desirous
of debating for Dalhousie on either
team may speak at the trials to be
held immediately following the

Christmas vacation on either z

&
:
:
fe

affirmative or negative side of the
Mt. Allison resolution, Resolved
that the members of the Canadian
House of Commons should be elected by proportional representations
rather than by the present system.
Announcement is made of the coming trials at this early date in order
to permit preparation of the sub- 7
ject during the holidays.

His Opinion

The following Dalhousie rugby leaders including a former captain, Dr.#4
Aub, Tupper andthe captain elect forZ}
next fall, Bob Baird, when asked for
their opinions regarding the advisability #
of procuring the services of a full times
paid rugby coach replied as follows:—4

Dr, Tupper—‘‘Although I do not
wish to deprecate the efforts of the
voluntary rugby coaches, I might say
that not until we have a capable fulltime coach will Dalhousie occupy the
place which she sheuld in Maritime
rugby circles.”

Bob Baird:—**Theser

vices of a full time rugby
coach are most certain
ly needed at Dalhousi.
[It is unjust to expect
equal results from ou
present coaches who hav
such a limited time t
place at the disposal .o
the team, by Gad.”

Baird

Former Captaini

favor of Paid
Coach

Lillian Sadler, Beth Dargie, Gladys Jost,
Frances Ritcey, Helen Bides, Winifred
Killam, Ena Garber, Ruth Moore,
Heien McLeod, Annie McLeod, Betty
Cunningham, Clair Murphy, ~ Helen
Murphy, ‘‘Trixy”’ Lindsay, Daisy Zwicker, Marie Purtill, Marg Burris, Mar
MacCoubrey, Polly Burries, Connie
Nichois, Anna Olding, Evelyn Proudfoot, Myrtle Olding, Mary Harrie,
irene Kichardson, Kussell McSween,
Gordon Elkin, Don Stuart, Hal Connor,
T, Derome, Slim Rainnie, Mark Smith,
Bill Miller, Tanner Smith, T. Clennett,
Bob Dorman, Eric Found, Don Archibaid, *““Pep’’ Miller, R. MacDonald,
Con Sutherland, Charlie Tapley, Tom
Stentagord, Charlie Lorway, Turner
O'Brien, Dick Squires, Don O’Hern,
Harold Johnson, Wilmun Fraser, Calder Fraser, T. Harries, Bill Bennett,
W. Harris, Isaac Cohen, T. D. Sadler,
Warren Langille.

the Theologs, last year's winners, are
going strong again. So far they haven’t
lost a game; on Saturday Dalhousie’s
virile kngineers bowed to the strong
hand of Theology.

Watson Sodero, Fourth year Med,
whose illness was noted in the last
Gazette, has recovered sufficiently to
go to his home in Sydney on Monday,
last. He will remain there until after
Christmas. We believe that the delay,
long enough to be fatal for most students
will not be serious for Watson,

Pine Hill has realized that fourth
year Meds have no exams at Christmas,
Therefore some of the boys have
decided that the above fourth year
meds should be kept busy; Myron
Oliver has been confined to the hospital
room for about a week with flu... Howard Kennedy has been suffering from
general disability. Russell McSween
was laid up for several days by an injury
sustained by a collision with Jock Kent
in a basketball game and Deak Dixon
is nursing a shiner resulting when
Coolie Harrie nicked one of Charlie
Anderson's fast balls in the TheologyEngineers game on Saturday. AW
have excellent prospects for recover.y

The snow lay deep between the aisles of spruce and pine, and spread a shawl

Of white about the Fort where chimneys breathed against the night

And every pane cast on the snow a patch of yellow candle-light.

Within the crude but cheery hall of spruce-logs roughly hewn and knit,

Fires burned upon the hearth and turkeys browned upon the spit,

de Poutrincourt this merry night was Steward-in-Chief, and through the
room

The Order of Good Cheer he led, his right of service to assume.

The wand of office in his hand, and napkin on his arm he bore;

Around his neck the Collar fine of precious gems and gold he wore,

And after him the members walked, each pioneer at heart a lad:

All come to feast de Poutrincourt in gay and brilliant raiment clad.

And each man held a steaming dish well-filled with bustards, geese or quail

And pasties too of partridges, and larks and ducks and beaver’s tail. ,

Forgotten were hositilities of Indian, of axe and sword,

For great Sagamos Membertou was also at the festive board;

And several other mighty chiefs from many leagues around were come

In blankets bright and feathers too, and Noel gifts of fur. Andsome

There were sat cross-legged on the floor, with warriors, papoose and squaw,

And three who travelled to Port Royal from far away as the Sainte Croix.

Cups were filled with sparkling wine, eyes were merry, voices gay

That cried ‘‘Je vous souhaite un joyeux Noel et une bonne heureuse annee.”’

Late it was that Yuletide night before the mirthful feast was o'er,

And then de Poutrincourt transferred his charge to good De Monts before

They gave their thanks toGod, He placed the Coilar round his neck with
wealt

Of rite and next they filled anew their cups and drank each other’s health.

a the Fort just treesand snow. Then through the wood a tru mpet

last
And theshot of a huntsman broke the spell of a winter eve, so still and vast!

—— — bee. C—O

It is rumoured around the University
that two coeds are going to take Law
next year, Alas, no more—cases, On

BIG JIM McLEOD guard, all ye lawyers! DR. AUBREY TUPPER

~ ANNUAL —
DENTAL DANCE

Friday, Jan. 9th. Lord Nelson Hotel
9 P. M.

| TICKETS $3.00
_ JOE MILLS
_ and his Orchestra

~
r

%

Better
Supper

Sy SA OS A SAS SIS SAS

 
   
   
  
 

 

Something to

 

F, R, DUXBURY.

aXe

“i News Editors:

ae ee ah ee alte reperitinaa tne
“ , — SS

ras mie r

 

| -|Canadian College
Argue About Comment

 

 
  
 

 

ve

 

 

is WT ip lee a ea fixe Mare ; ag

‘ i at 7
as ho a ‘ yf ‘ i

Santa Claus |

Christmas will soon be here, With

 

a

 
  
   
 

Through the
Looking Glass

   

refer, finds himself compelled to abide
by this obviously unfair ruling, and he
feels none too sanguine about . the

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

They say that he hasn’t any—at least,
not the kind of voice they want to hear
singing a he-man's song like The Blue

asleep at the post. The freshmen
especially should heed this. adyice.
Imagine a class party three weeks

in air, Poor deluded creatures.
But there must have been a real

Santa Claus. What does the records

es ies . | hristmas comes thoughts of Santa
(A column inviting ream and con- Claus. How deli hefu were those | .
} broversy). early days of yout en Santa Claus sale
yy ae | — . ¢ Get i ty: nk and h Weunderstandthat the President of
foi aen reweaity penediste. Ea fy me Ne coals ore Sena ct undiluted the pears =e — ‘Lahey of the
Let’s Subsidize a eos ‘oy. he not th iver of | Professors, famed for his ability to stay
or Rint The Meaning of a Liberal Edu- eee of Renee aor Pas’ Te ae eae ‘Kd cpiiens, Bd ehe single, and invited him to bring his
; 5 ti committee has refu udy Vallee F f Remicl stig Bean
Managing Editor: eae rmission to add The Blue and The j helper ofthe poor and needy?) , |} Wife CO-Ekem tines: party. - 0 ee
| A. GORDON COOPER | Nothing to Argue About. _ White to. bis repertory of popular ne are those days of fanciful] what you may eas reshman, is the
Bee $.2143. canticles. And we believe that the|creation. Santa Claus seems now like mrcee at in this luc nach you
at Associates: rah-rah boys are quite right. : eras once conceived ee : e ceaue per ae She Ere ve 88 thar tC
har . 7. T A. GOUDG ; 7 : F hat ther, the coll aunts of fantastic imagination, Glori- G : ; ::
ug spp ets RD, A ACDONALD ‘There is something radically wrong). 4. have no ‘objection ter Mie Valice |ous dreams of youth are shattered by| | Well, the Christmas holidays are
ia eee cee W. T. DAUPHINEE, with the present method : empine personally, He is an estimable young | the sordid realization which comes with |2lmost here, but unfortunately for all
7” DORIS MARGESON. they examination time-table at “| gentleman, of irreproachable morals, | @8¢- And so with Santa Claus. An-] We must spend a week in purgatory
. oe housie, when an Arts student 13 force with a mind far above his fan letters. other dream creation destroyed by an before we can relax. The Gazette has
1 Sports Editor: to write five examinations in two days. What the boys cavil at is his: voice, unmerciful world, , Such is the fate, of | @ cartoon on its front page to-day. See
MS 7a The unfortunate soul to whom we mortals who build their dream castles | to it that you are not caught napping-—
¥

: . : d The White.

; outcome, despite the fact that he is a a : of Ti il us? There i i|}before exams, They must have

: t is not our part to remonstrate ime tell uss here is some recore s :

| . eat ENO good, average aera. Even ey waits Beh igh United States public's |left of one St. Nicholas, a bishop of adopted the motto Let ‘us eat, drink,
y NI ; ree papers on one day is certain'y| i iormal passion for musical misfits,] Myra. This St. Nicholas was a grand] and be merry: for to-morrow we may

 

  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 

?

was well as the increase in
‘ statement has at least

| ,man of real power”.

DOUGL#
Pe KANIGSBERG,
ELIZABETH MURRAY.

PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. 5,

Christmas 
==2) HE world is striding apace into the festive season of
er) the year. Santa Claus has entered and captured the
We city. His rule over the hearts and minds of all of us
Ay) } is established supreme, and, with him strides The
Me) Christmas Spirit. There is magic in the simple phrase.
ii upens the flood-gates of memory to.rushing, happy thoughts of
‘other Christmas days, of merry parties, fatted Gobblers, and
tapering, ornamented trees whose topmost branches brushed against
the very ceiling. We are every yedr growing older but always will
the Spirit of Christmas enable us to recapture the joys of the time

  
 
  

_ when we enjoyed life to the fullest and best extent—the days of

childhood in the Christmas season. It is difficult to conjure up
‘new ways of expressing old thoughts. The thoughts which we
harbor at Christmas time may only be adequately said in the age‘old greeting. And so to readers of the Gazette and to all Dalhousians
past and present we say with full and hearty voice—''A Merry
Christmas and A Happy New Year!’

 

THE SOCIAL WHIRL.

a heayy disadvantage, but to have two
more on the following morning, seems

dre arranged so as to have one on each
day of the week, thus giving all the
candidates an equal opportunity. Of
course, this’ procedure is made possible
because of the fact that every student
is taking the same classes, but nevertheless, we do not understand why a
similar method could not be followed at
Studley, despite the diversity of individual time-tables. Even if it were
found necessary to extend the examination period an extra week, it would be
a definite improvement over the present
procedure, which is obviously unfair.
We strongly urge some sort of consideration for this pressing problem.
Under the startling caption, ‘‘Let’s
Subsidize!”” an editorial in a Los
Angelés college daily sets forth some
rather radical views on the present
condition of intercollegiate sport. The
article points out that many activities
among the students carry with them
financial inducements, and there seems
to be little reason why athletes could
not be treated in a similar manner.
The writer states with a burst of
ethical enthusiasm, ‘“‘Honesty is more
important than amateur standing.”
Now, if this suggestion possesses
nothing else, it is at least noteworthy
for its originality. We certainly do not

  
   
  

 

but we are free to admit that we agree
with Toronto Varsity in checking M1.

but let him keep his wobbling larynx
off our grand old college songs. They
may not have much sense, but they
have a lot of noise about them, and this
noise is vibrant, and there is no question
of its virility.

Mr. Vallee is one of the accursed
tribe of crooners, Any singing master
will tell you that a crooner is not a
singer—he is not even a whispering
baritone, or a bath room tenor—he is,
as you might say, a pernicious anaemia
of the coal chords, and is no more to be
classed with a real singer than a duck
is with a nightingale. The crooner, as
we hear him over the radio—which,
unfortunately, we sometimes do—has
one or two notes that he can blat on,
but all the rest is preterea nihil.

what’s in between is no more than the
wind in one’s whiskers.

Be that as it may, we are pleased to
learn that The Blue and The White is
safe now and forever from the crooners,
whose notes are as false as grandfather's
teeth, or falser, It is our firm conviction that singing is singing, and bleating
is bleating, and in the interests of good
music the two things should not be
confused.— Montreal Siandard.

die.” And quite true, many of them

He was a veritable | @*
will be slaughtered. And per usual

and good old man,

helper of the poor and needy. It is

EARLE GOLDBERG. to be the proverbial “last straw.’’|,, ital ; ,|a-large number of the upper ‘classmen
' ao y ; aes . ! _ | Vallee’s efforts to enter our territory.|Said that he donated gifts to the | 4 {arg PP e
. Business Manager: ae pea oe ete ore ed eae if Mr. Vallee wants to sing—save the | daughters of an impoverished citizen will ee them company. Alack—it

Jj. R. DONAHOE, ALD MAHON, Pp 2 Sat, yt tudent and i mark, sing—-syncopated hysterics like, of Myra, whocould not marry them off} 1S Th 10 ees 1 :
-" ~ $.4086J. _ L2074 See ers ina ino aed Just a Little Closer, Go Home and Tell } Since dowries were requisite of the e Ga‘eile called” attention to the
. | i Pee? oe ye professor. In|\,. 3. Mother, My Baby Cares Only|times. This started the custom of fact that the Glee Club was putting on
the Medical Faculty, the examination’ |For Me, and similar slush, let him do so, | 1V"8 of gifts on the sixth of December. | very few shows this ‘year. he presi
dent of the Glee Club then very ably
defended himself and we all-sat back
and said ‘“‘we are sorry, we must be
wrong.’ But we were not wrong—
at least it does not look that way.
The term is over as far as everything “is
concerned except exams. And how
many shows did we have—one. |
am not saying that this is the fault of
the president anymore than the student
body, but nevertheless we cannot get
away from the fact that we have had
only one Glee Club show. It is most
unfortunate that this popular student
activity has not shown more signs of
life. We realize that it seems to be
a failing of the students to expect-~one
man to do it all, and’ no one man _§is
equal to the task but yet if goaded
along they -might come out of their
lethargy long enough to put the Club
back on its feet. Let us hope ‘that
after Xmas the people in ‘charge will
be able to see their way clear to put on
at least one show a month,
Everything is pointing to a big
winter in sports at the University.
Hockey should be above the standard
of recent years with the acquisition of
erry Coleman, Jack Buckley, Hughy
Martin, and some promising freshmen,
With Captain Oyler and all the boys
except Omar Taylor back, things are

The eve of St. Nicholas’ day was later
transferred to Christmas Eve.

The legend of St. Nicholas was
brought over to America by the early
Dutch colonists, who revered this
honourable saint under the name of
San Nicholas. The word later underwent Americanization to the form of
Santa Claus. And so much for the real
Santa Claus of history of whom one
writer says, ‘‘His cult is as celebrated
as his history ts obscure.”

As the vears went by, the giving of
gifts on Christmas eve was associated
with the legend of Santa Claus. A
fanciful legend to stir the hearts of
expectant souls. How often have we
not thought of Santa riding through

 

through the chimney when all the world
was asleep. The bearer of peace, goodwill and joy. Christmas is here again,
and who knows, Santa Claus might be
present to fulfill our dreams and wishes
at that grand time of the year.

 

Law Trounces

believe that such a procedure would . looking up to say the least. In basket

; improve the not over hopeful looking Dentistry ball fase SM anQdecnt has. the
. ° ° 7 ; Ants . : ‘ : : nnn > . :
Dalhousie at the present time is on the verge of. going dance | situation outlined so baldly in the —_—__—__— fondest hopes. MacKenzie, *Acadia

crazy. An extravagant statement perhaps, but in view of the ever
growing number of class, club, fraternity and sorority parties
number of ‘large formal hotel dances, the
a strong claim to serious consideration.
Seniors and graduate students at the University are in a position
‘to appreciate fully the increase in social functions during the past

Contrast that situation with to-day’s conditions. There are now
fraternities and sororities galore each with its numerous parties.
And ‘as for large University dances last year even the F reshmen
must needs get into the swim and stage a “Freshman Frolic”. The
latest proposal of the dance-mad is a hotel function to be given

for the initiation of the project.

The disadvantages of a dance-mad Dalhousie are quite obvious.
First, the social whirl has an adverse effect on studies which, in
some cases may lead to failure. Secondly, college dances to-day
in any considerable number are too expensive for the average

etbook. Of course, the answer comes,one need not attend,
ut the average member of such and such a society yields to a
demand to “support” the activities of his group, and having once
mixed with the mad, merry throng is prevailed upon to repeat the
experience and so the habit grows and the money goes. When
temptation is offered it is easy to persuade oneself that attendance
at dances constitutes an essential part of a college education. This
is particularly true of the junior classes. Thirdly, an impression
is gained by the world at large who see the college student eternally
‘dancing that a University imparts nothing to its students but a
‘training in the social graces.
‘-harmful to the University. These are only a few of the reasons
‘why the number of social functions at Dalhousie should be kept
within reasonable limits. There are others which no doubt occur
to you. They are sufficient to indicate that a reduction in the
number of dances held at Dalhousie, and not a further increase as
some would suggest, is eminently desirable.

 

A CONFERENCE PERSONALITY.

‘premiers assembled from the far corners of the vast Empire have
‘passed across the great London stage, the centre of world comment.
Not the least of these in power of personality and ability was the
‘Premier of Canada, Mr. Bennett. Ina recent dispatch the London
‘ Times states that Mr. Bennett has established himself as a “statesNo mean praise, this, coming from the

H. Napier Moore,

  
 

‘greatest of the great English daily journals.

editor of MacLean’s magazine who covered the Conference for his

  
 
  

alhousie may indeed be well proud of the achievements
Canada's Prime Minister. Lawyer, business man and stateman,

A false impression but none the less}},

Carnegie Report last year. The subsidizing of intercollegiate sport would
have but one result—there would be
some honesty, but no sport. The
writer of that editorial has confuseds
two very different fields of student
when he attempts to place say, editors
of college papers who receive salaries,

thank the gods that in this regard
Dalhousie’s record is spotless, and here,
at least, we can feel justifiably proud.
May we nevet have to contend with
the dark spectre of professionalism
among our athletes.

the individual, to enable him to take
a richer and more significant view of
his experiences, and to place him above
and not within the system of his
beliefs and ideals.’ This extract culled
from Everett Dean Martin's well known
masterpiece, ‘‘The Meaning of a Liberal
Education,” is one of the ‘best concise
definitions of education we know. Dr.
Martin in his fine, readable book, has
caught the .true and essential spirit
which is the foundation of every
mature personality. He has analyzed
rather good humouredly the failings
and foibles of contemporary education
in all its phases, and has attempted to
suggest a few remedial measures. He
points to Piato, Montaigne and Huxley
as exemplifying the ‘‘liberal spirit’ he
as in mind. These men made living
an art, without losing their connection
with life. They were ,uided, without
being mastefed, by their beliefs and
ideals. And their thoughts remain the
beacon-lights which shine down across
the ages. Dr. Martin also believes
that education is not, as so many
think, something which one either
‘sets’’ or ‘doesn’t get’’ in one’s youth,
It is rather a concomitant of life, and
it can be gained as well outside college
walls, as within them. Perhaps the
greatest assistance in becoming really

Milton, Darwin, Einstein, or any of
those giants of the intellect, who are
immortal. Their words and their lives
can inspire us to nobler heights, while
their thoughts reveal to us the secret
of ‘“‘a liberal education’’, which means
a mature outlook on life. We would
heartily recommend Dr. Martin’s book
as a sort of -hors-d’oeuvres for the

  

DOES PUBLICITY DO IT?

Does ‘a student enter campus activities merely for the publicity he receives

Next we might wonder whether men
and women of the state enter the
political field’ for the publicity they
receive from it. Our answer is here
that one out of five does.

Whether students are public-minded
enough to work to attain positions

benefit society, or in the local case, the
campus, cannot be determined. It ts
usually found that when a student is
selected to fill a position he or she will
throw whole-hearted effort into satisfactory execution. This, we also add,
may be done for the selfish reason of
securing another and more noticeable
job in the future, Little harm comes
from this phychological urge.

We commend the student who takes
the work, puts his heart and soul into
it, and does it without expectation of
recompense. He is the student who
will best benefit from the experience he
enjoys and who will continue his advancement when all means of public
notice have been withdrawn,

Is it the picture in the paper that
urges him to complete his task? Is it
the respect and greetings he receive
after his appointment has been announced? Perhaps it is, but what
harm can that do? His acquaintance
on the campus is broadened, his ability
as an executive is increased, and he may
consider his college career a huge
success.

Still, we admire the man who will
work from public sight.—Oregon Daily
Emerald.

———s-o___——_
eise educated is a knowledge and a love
: |. The Imperial Conference of 1930 has come and gone. British] of good books. Through them we may ee :
er become pupils of Aristotle, Erasmus, LITERATURE. extended us and join in

If there is one interest in the University which should continue throughout
the student's life, it is an interest in
good literature. Such interest should
not be confined to any one department.
The library and lectures give every

ef _ publication, goes further and writes that ‘‘blunt Mr. Bennett] Christmas Bass, i‘ eer manty in-|student an Greats to ee the
ly Gee dod kimoelf a | : | teresting, readable an uman. acquaintance of the best books and . , ;
stablished himself as the outstanding figure at the Conference Shee de, WEEE ena Md abut thetn CNA NANA NASA INA

The friends made at college may drift
to the ends of the earth, but you can

As one | the snows in his sleigh. A sleigh drawn
critic puts it, he has a grunt in the by reindeers and ornamented with
collar and a squeak in the attic, and jingle bells. Over housetops and then

star and former captain is with us and
all the regulars’ are ‘back. Looks as
if we are going to capture that Maritime championship provided Santa
Claus and the professors’ are kind.
Yes, it certainly looks like Dalhousie’s
year.

Well, dear readers, this is the last

Law walked away from Dentistry
by a score of 24 to 4 in a scheduled
Interfaculty Softball game played iast
Wednesday at noon. Staging rallies
in the third and fourth innings which
netted them eight and nine runs respectively they established a lead which

few years, . A comparatively short time ago fraternity dances and] on the same footing with athletes. In from it? . was at no time threatened. Dentristry | issue of the Gazette before Xmas. As

_ parties were very few because these organizations were few in|the former a there are no os oe pups 1s ors arate ok biggest inning was the third when they |] am penning these words I look up
j ~ °° ae tinctions made between amateur and|of five he does, and does so because fe got away to a good start, but we cee r¢ sf ibrarve

. ; n I ; he sige ae ) ré|to see a youngster enter the library+—

. number. Sororities vee peer erred and % TT professional journalists while in the believes it is the quickest, surést and |downed through some foolish playing. | no more ea es if he is a ay.

_ societies did not feel it incum nt upon them to throw 4 /arge) latter, these distinctions are of para-|safest way to become popular on the They scored only two runs. LeBrun| What is the Arts School! becoming—

formal dance to make their presence felt at the University.| mount importance. However, we must | campus. pitched the full game for Law, while}a home for children or just a nursery.

Harris and Peters divided the hurling
for Dentistry.
Score by liiings—

But to return to my original statement
—this is the last issue this term. We
have tried hard to give you a good paper
and believe me it has not been easy.
Especially is it discouraging when someone sends word to you that the Gazette

4 6
2 1—24
1 0— 4

1

Ars tats of e4 ye

Dentistry....... 1
Line up—

oOhM
tho Oo

i i , justi : hd PN TR fie : is the worst in years. All th
yah combined Autoand Science dae. What unenhanced et || BepeyDury 1 Compete C's ath“
. is 10T Ss air has no nr y y pons of human life. Its task is to reortent}own ideas which they believe will/r. f.; Keefe s.s.; Harris p.; McMullin c; you dislike the Gazette contribute some
Allanach 1b; Brodie 2b; McIntosh 3b;
Forrestal c. f.; Peterss. s.

Law—LeBrun p; Stewart 1b; Kanigsberg 2b; Smith s. s.; Hicks s. s.; MeDougall 1. f.; Rosenblum c.; Pattillo 3b;
Ziver. f.

Bob Thompson was umpire at the
plate while Charlie Lorway handled
the bases.

thing to improve it, As the editor
said when speaking to the freshmen,
“We are not looking for destructive
criticism. We get enough of that anyway. What we want is constructive
criticism. This station is now signing
off until January, 1931. Wishing you
all A Merry Xmas and A Happy New
Year

 

 

to our many

POR ASS TS
is
- - - student friends

we take this opportunity
of thanking you for the
very liberal patronage

f
t
é
f

wishing you ----+:-.

if
if
if
if
if
‘i
Very Merry Christmas

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

t
‘
f
¢
t
t

  
    
  

‘ sat honourable and colourful career reflects honour on the University sure no need to arene about tet oak have the books you learned to
+ which assisted him i ; the foundation for a phenom one. very merry Christmas and a|make your companions at college.—
ae “ success. Ssh laying Peete rts oh on prosperous New Year to all! McGill Daily. ane *s
ae I %
A JHE ALUMNI NEWS. The strength of any educational institution rests largely on M ens Wear S ho
1 P Se ca hae ee Pay |< the support accorded by its graduates. The Alumni News is

se ws, official organ of the graduates of Dalhousie, presenting the needs of the present day Dalhousie forcibly to the
sl¢ service in carrying news’ ot the University Alumnis.andis arousing -inte:est:in.the.Univeisity,among its, former
present to members of the Alumni| students ‘which will no doubt be evidenced in a tangible way when
_ Examination of the latest number|an appeal goes rorth for funds to further Dalhousie’s expansion.
lefatigablé editor who presents aj All in all the Gazeffe’s sister publication is alive and up and doing.

. tive. We commend it to the readers of the Gazelie.

30 Spring Garden Road

   
     
  

‘
‘
f
i
d
be

Pe OPC ee CE PCN OCR ECR ae

     
  
  

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

|
i

f

Ke
is

 

Cr

limit

half-hour

‘A f en excluded? They

winter

 

Pkold during

Resuming an activity initiated last
winter, Sodales Debating Society staged
an half-hour radio broadcast over
C. H. N. S. on Friday evening, NovemPoth The programme took the
: of a debaté on the subject, ‘‘Resolved that this Radio Audience favours

S a tax on tlors.” This same topic

formed the substanceof a debate held
fat Sodales early in October, and as it
proved a “popular one, the executive

ef the Society considered it suitable for

broadcasting pur s.

Prof. C. a. Miecees introduced the
broadeast to the radio audience, and
then surrendered the microphone to
Mr: Donald Grant, the President of

dales, who officated as announcer.

efore presenting the resolution, he
briefly outlined: the purpose and activity of the Debating Society, and requested those ‘‘listening in” to write
and say whether they enjoyed the
mime, Mr, Grant then introtimed the four speakers of the evening,
Miss Elizabeth Murray, Miss Lillian
Sadler, “Mr; John Denoon and Mr.
The Goudge.’ Miss Murray and
r, Denoon upheld the afiirmative

side, while Miss'Sadier and Mr. Goudge

nted the negative. Each speaker was allowed six minutes within which
to nt his or her case, and the time
was rigidly adhered to by the
participants. At the conclusion of
the debate, Mr. Grant announced that
La decision would be left in the capable
hands of the audience, and he again
invited them to communicate with
Sodales and express their judgments on
the arguments of the speakers. This
: programme of ‘Dalhousie
On The Air,’’ is the first of a series
which will be presented throughout the

winter months,
Changes Made in

Interfaculty
Softball

Why have residence teams
been barred?

This year the inter-faculty softball
has been restricted to conform
with a literal interpretation of its title.
To achieve this it was necessary to
minate the Residence teams
K and Pine Hill, Whether the
ttainment was worth the price paid
is a debatable question, A certain
amount of organization is necessary to
all sport. A game without rules would
mae be a game at ail. But the real
eet of athletics and especially of
nterfaculty athletics is the physical
recreation afforded to the participants,
General physical exercise is a necessary
pp t to education, ~ since the
competitive element is usually an essential inducement to taking such exercise
it should be extended toward as many,
Students as possible. Exclusive organn ought to be reduced to a mininum, It is bad enough to put the
ining of a title ahead of the game in

professional ope when that tendency
creeo ‘into

collegiate sport it is a trave
 

 

 

 
 
  
  
    
  
  
   
   
   
 
    

 

have these teams
do Pee i =
he scope of a strictly n
league. Is that the only
ast a are oF eee
‘was ied an th teams
ve seed What had disturbed
‘status The residence teams
wt of prised eae

aC at ‘the members are groupe
rin eva does not imply
these teams are more skilled than
her team in the league. We
at explanations are due for
| rfaculty softball.

    
             
   
      
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
   

  

 
  

 
  
 

Y stain es + of Sh ire 4 Hall.

Thad taken a ifé and used it for her own

|| afternoon all were

| i) eee
renee te wl

 
 

heroine turned and tossed, her
er was fitful. Suddenly she rose
her couch, and crept (at 3 A. M.
have you know) down the dread
Her connce = Was. poubling her. Weeks
#o she had committed a crime, and
gach week~ more and more

ed on her memory. She

Down she went and with

Lars h step her conscience became more
and more leaden.
| ped, she had just reached the ground
floor. Out of the telephone
there walked the ghost of her victim,
ee beside it walked three little victims,

Suddenly she stop
booth

It was a dogfish family of olfactory remembrance, and even the
ghost of its. odour was there,
(Enter the Play).
There is a tense moment and before
her very eyes the elder dogfish laid

itself out on the floor, being careful to
arrange so that all parts of its anatomy
should be visible, and then in a sepulchral voice:

‘Thus you drew me.”

Then the apparition fose and de
liberately made an incision down: its

midventral line,

“Thus you cut me to the heart.”

And . without. further words this
creature of the deep enacted the direction of three days laboratory sheets.
Before our heroine could ask she saw
standing before her a dogfish holding
a head in one pectoral fin, an eye in the
other, and balancing on one of its
posterior ventral fins a little bit of white
gas which she supposed was its brain
At this moment she acted with ail the
courage and calm characteristic of her,
she realized the poor thing had lost its
mind and that insanity was dangerous.
In short she screamed.

When the. night watchman arrived
by the basement staircase and a maid
artived from the hall door—she was
no longer herself, they found a demented being instead of a norma! girl.

Night Watchman: This is the third
time | have seen her thus. Look how
she rubs her hands.

Maid: She is always washing her
hands thus. I have known her to
continue in this for a quarter of an hour.

Girl: Out damned smell out, I say.
Hell is murky. What will these hands
né’er be cleafi? Here's the smeil still,
all the perfumes of Arabia will not
sweeten this little hand. Oh—Oh—Oh!

Maid: I wouldn't have such a conscience for all the B..A.’'s in Dalhousie
University.

Suddenly both are silent for a triumphant look has come over our heroine's
face.

“Wash your hands, take off your lab
coat I tell you that fish is in the bucket,
He can’t come out again. She bursts
into a triumphant song.

O dogfish, dogfish turning ripe

You're in that pail—just so much

tripe,

Fear no mortal hand or knife

Immortal is thy second life.

O dogfish, dogfish I am glad,

You're in the pail—the-smell was bad

You lifted from my soul a load

When you went to God's abode.

Exit.

Maid: She seems to be happy now,

Night Watchman: Conscience can’t
hold out very long.

 

C. O. T. C. Holds
Mock Battle

With imaginary aeroplanes flying
overhead and armies of hostile soldiers
advancing; with machine guns booming
and annihilation by poison gas facing
them, thirty-five members of the Dalhousie C, O, T. C. were given the problem of extr icating themselves from this
death trap, and they came out victorious, This tactical show aroused much
interest among members of the C, O+T,
C. and those who participated were
given the treat of their lives in this
mimic warfare. The participants left
Halifax at 1.15 P. M. and were conveyed
in Army Trucks to the place where
they took the ferry for the Cold Harbor
Road. Here they staged the tactical
show. Those present were divided into
six groups and each group worked
separately with ground maps and
instruments. As a directing staff there
was Licutenant-Colonel Martin King,
who was assisted by Captains: H. B.
Lang, S. T. Fetterly of the 6th Machine
Gun Battalion, Spence Ball of the
Tech O. T, C, and Griffin and Reade of
Dalhousje. Captain Reade was in
charge of most of the manoeuvres,

This mock battle gave the participants experience in estimating the
effect of ground on the tactical use of
troops in action and allowed them to
see the problems that would be encounte in practice. Included in
problems set the leaders of each group
were Such as;The Co-operation of the
various arms of the service and the
defense against aircraft. A certain
time limit would be given the group
leader in. which he would formulate

lans for meeting the emergency, and
be would give his answer to the staff
leader who’ would compare a ae ie
regular Army answer to the identica
problem in case a difference in anatase,
the Staff Officer would explain the
ac of preferring the Army solution, The directing stafi allowed each
man, after he was given some preliminary advice to go out as if he’ wasa
regular Staff
these members gave to the problem
won 1m vourable comments.
The tactical scheme ended with a
Battalion attack in which all present
participated and at 5,15 of the same
back again in Hali
jn? DP tee BO ee

        
   
 
    
  
   
   
 
    

  

a
‘

os wae i

cer and the answers|

  
 
 

“DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Death’s Rendezvous

 

A Great Murder Story from the Pen of R. G.

 

Safe on Sydney Street! Beckworth
emitted a guarded sigh of relief and lit a
cigarette. Already the events of the
evening were paling into retrospect, and
taking on a fantastic and unreal quality
like the midnight world that the sudden
and early snow had made unfamiliar
and shadowy about him. He a murdere! It all seemed. so impessible,
His mind re-enacted the happenings
of the last five hours: he had gone to sce
Elsie and to take her to a show; that
had been his only intention. Instead
they sat the evening out in her apartment; she repeated her demands that
he marry her, threatened to use his
letters; to show them to his parents;
to sue him for breach of promise. The
insistence of those demands had worried
him of late; he, had been unable to
settle down to work at all from thinking
ofthem. The term is fast coming to an
end,too. Marry her? Impos sible! Well
it was all over now, but even yet he
scarcely understood how it had happened. She had gone to sleep, her head
against his shoulder; an object in his
breast pocket was pressing hard against
him, When he put his hand up to
remove it he had found his hypodermic
case. Evidently he had forgotten to
take it from his pocket after interne
duty that afternoon. The syringe
contained a little dose of morphine.
Elsie had scarcely wakened. He had
left her sound asleep again. sitting
cuddled in one corner of the old Chesterfieid, a pillow where his shoulder had
been. He glanced at his wrist watch,
That was nearly an hour ago. By
this time she would be dead. Beckworth shuddered. ‘‘None of that,’ he
said to himself, ‘‘It was either you or
she. Marriage to Elsie would have
ruined you; it would have been worse
than death to you.” Elsie was all
alone in the world. Her suicide would
be quite understandable to the world
that would think it suicide, That sort
of thing happened frequently at this
season, She had changed her boarding
house only a few days before from a
different part of the city. He was
unknown in the neighbourhood; his
case was perfect. Even Jack didn’t
know he had been going out with Elsie.
Come to think of it, Jack had introduced them—sort of cut Jack out; he
had. But Jack didn’t know he had
kept up the acugaintance. That was
the best of a big city. Pople couldn't
keep track of you éven if they wanted
to,

Home at last. Jack was in bed,
sound asleep. Beckworth undressed
quietly, turned out the light and crept
into bed too, Somehow he couldn't
get to sleep. The regular, péaceful
breathing of his room-mate from the
bed across ‘the room reminded him
awiully of Elsie’s as she had slept
against his shoulder. He picture her
blond hair and determined little face
with its small, sure chin. She was

 

bound to get her man. Well, he had
fooled her. Then he tried to banish
the face, but he couldn’t. It retreated,
but remained against the farther wall
where the night light shining thru the
transom softly fell upon the wainscoting. The eyes weile accusing, yet
appealing. Suddenly he realized that
it was a rather wonderful little face,
A lump rose in his throat. Here, this
would have to be cut out. He was
sorry—that was natural; and scared——
that was to be expected. His imagination began to ‘paint pictures of her
discovery. He turned over in -bed,
buried his head in the pillow, and fell
into a disturbed sleep.

Beckworth awoke with a start, conscious that he had cried aloud—what,
he couldn't remember. He couldn't remember the dream either, except that
it had been about Elsie, Jack was
berfding over him,

“You called me, old boy,
‘Anything wrong?”
ed hoarse.

‘Nothing, thanks,
a bit of a nightmare."’

™ said Jack.

Jack’s voice seem
I've been having

‘““Righto.” Jack went back to his
bed again,
Sleep now was impossible and

full consciousness was impossible. Beckworth spent the long hours of early
morning in a _ grotesquely hideous
twilight where corpses with golden hai:
floated about in gently falling snow
whose flakes kept growing and growing
until they reached terrifying propor
tions and smothered him beneath
their weight. Later his head cleared
a little. He forced himself to stay in

bed until Jack had gotten up first.

Beckworth belonged to first clinic
division that morning. Jack went into
the wards to visit the patients of the
doctor under whom he worked, and to
write histories. It was a _ tortuous
morning for Beckworth. He moved
about like a drunkard, and was laughed
at, and bawled out; and cursed at when
he bungled a broken arm: But these
things were only fancies; the orily
real thing in the clinic room was a face
with colin hair and little square chin.
Most of the time it floated before him,
about three yards off and just above
his head, When a nurse or a young
woman entered at the‘farther end of the
long room, it became her face until she
came near; then it would detach itself
to float before him again. At twelve
o'clock he was called to the phone,

“Jack speaking” came over the
wire, “Dr, Late says for you boys to
come over to the Pathology building
for an autopsy. Meet you in the
second right first floor ward.”

“Be mnght over” said Beckworth,
Anything would be better than this
clinic work. He spread the news and
started thru the corridor that joined
the Clinic building to the hospital. As
he entered the latter building a little
nurse who had been hiding behind the

Paid Coach Seen As Only

Solution

 

Conditions Have Changed--- Voluntary Coaches Unable to Devote
the time---Up to the
Undergraduates

 

Undergraduates of Dalhousic, including those who do not take an active

 

 

of a full-time instructor. Without
any possible thought of remuneration

part in athletic activities and those who\these voluntary coaches give up as

are included among the leaders in the
various branches of college sport, are
alike familiar with the much-discussed
topic, regarding the need of a paid full
time football coach at Dalhousie as
contrasted with the method of coaching
in vogue at our University for the past
several years.

It is true that last year and in many
of the preceding football seasons, the
Dalhousie Tigers fought their way to
the city championship and quite often
the trophy, emblematic of the Maritime rugby supremacy decorated the
shelves of the Dalhousie Library, but
this enviable record is, most certainly,
an absurd argument against the procuring of the services of one qualified
and willing to devote his entire time to
the conditioning of our rugby fifteen.

During the past five or six years,
Major* sport in Canada, has made
several radical strides which leave no
room, for comparison between the
game of the present day and that
played during the seasons prior to that
time. At the present time all of the
other Maritime Colleges, which by the
way have a student enrollment far less
in numbers than ours, and other Maritime squads have the full time services
of capable coaches who are able to train,
instruct and discipline the team in a
way which is impossible with part time
coaches.

All credit is due to those who have
given so generously of their time and
efforts in connection with the coaching
of the Dalhousie Tigers and student
fans and student players alike realize
om full si = of tet lias Pres:

rt th ave played in mouldi
the Dal “Giteen”™ ree squad whic
is an annual threat to other Maritime

teams in the race for the McCurdy

trophy. However, it is unfair of us
to expect e gentlemen to produce
the results attainable with the services

much time as they can from ‘their
professional and business duties in an
effort to give us the best possible football representation.

The disadvantages under such a
system are quite evident. Many times
the coaches cannot be on hand for
practice periods and during the limited

time in which they are in actual contact | littie
with the players, the bare rudiments of |

opened door jumped out and caught
him by the arm! He jumped violently.
The nurse laughed softly. She was
small and blond. LElsie’s face just
fitted her. It didn’t want to leave.
Curse the thing anyway!

“Scared you, didn't I, Big Boy,”
she said tauntingly, ‘You must be
keepin’ bad hours. Your nerves are all
shot,”

"You didn’t scare me” he denicd
quickly and with unnecessary force.

‘Bet you I will before dinner time,”
challenged the nurse. ‘“Won’t | Dr.
Hohnes?”

“Won't you what?’ asked ‘*Dr”
Jack who had just come into the hall,

‘‘Seare ‘Dr’ Beckworth” replied the
nurse,

“[ don’t know, I’m sure” replied
Jack dritly. ‘‘Now run along and tend
to business,”

‘The remainder of the class came up
just then and they ali walked towards
the autopsy room, Beckworth was
drawn into conversation. The’ face
Was getting dim, It vanished,

‘Post mortem doesn’t start for ten
minutes’’ said Jack, ‘‘Let’s smoke a
cigarette.” Cigarettes were produced
ail round, and lit. -The boys stood
upon the steps of the hospital and
smoked and talked quietly, ‘Lhe morning was clear and crisp, ‘No day for
introspection’ thought Beckworth. His
spirits rose, kisie was fading into the
past. ‘Tonight he would tnd some
one to go out to dinner anddance with
him, some one with dark, dark hair and
a soit, softchin. To tell the truth he
didn't really feel like going out but he
must. Action was what he needed
and a few days to forget, He wished
he could get hold of a morning’s paper.

(hey walked across to the pathoiogy
theatre. Dr. Late hadn’t arrived yet.
[Che blinds in the autopsy room were

down, Lights were burning softly.
Some of the boys seated themselves
about the littl amphitheatre. Jack

and Beckworth mingied with ‘the rest
who surrounded the white
gure on the marble slab.

‘“"What’s the compilaint,”” demanded
someone,

‘Just a generally instructive p, m.”’
volunteerea the interne who had taken
the body in, Case of suicide.
kid. Morphine, | guess.”

Beckworth grasped the slab fer
support, His tace went white, Great
God! lt was Eisie. The room swam
and reeled dizzily. He must reach the
door. He must get out. He stumbied
across the roont.

jack was holding him by the arm,
‘tWhat’s the matter, old boy,” he said

“I’m sick” stuttered Beckworth,
“Guess I’ll have to go home.’

“Nonsense,” old boy.’ Why was
Jack looking at him like that? ; *‘You’ll
ve all right in a minute.” He was
leading him back,

Yes, he would be ail right, Thé very
hideousness of the situation seemed to
give him strength. He had touched
the bottom of the pit of horror. Nothing could be worse. He imagined Dr.
Late raising his knife then the first
long incision and later the crunch of
bone, These things no longer touched
him, He shook oft Jack's arm, ‘“Thank
you” he said, ‘‘I’m O, K, now,”

The interne who had given the information was still talking, Beckworth quite self-possessed stood off a
little from the tables,

‘Yes, quite young,” the interne was
saying. ‘‘Pretty kid, too.” He drew
down the coveriet slowly and disclosed
tousied golden curls, The others gathered round. Beckworth did not move.
In the modified light the forehead that
must be waxen looked warm and alive,
The coverlet crept down and disclosed a face. ~......

A shout! The coverlet moved convulsively. The figure beneath it sprang
to the floor. The boys sprang back in
horror,

Beckworth shrieked and grovelling
horror replaced his desperate courage.
Something within his head snapped
with a loud noise.

Someone switched on the lights.
The figure in the white shroud was
laughing boisterously. It was the
blond nurse. She confronted
Beckworth, ‘‘I did scare you, didn’t |?”

shrouded

Young

the game, alone, can be dealt with, e. g. | she demanded,

it is impossible to give the individual

attention which is so oftentimes needed | but none so badly.

She had scared more than Beckworth
With ashen face

and any attempt at proper training)and shaking knees he poured with

surviellance would be futile.

At this point the question naturally
arises in the minds of the more skeptic
‘What will the coach do during the
remainder of the college year?’ To
answer this query let us direct your
attention to Mount Allison where the
duties of physical instructor, hockey,
basketball, track and rugby coach are
most effeciently handled by on man,
Ray Smith, who is an authority on all
of these branches of sport, and, who has
turned out championship girls and
boy’s basketball, hoskey, track and
tugby teams almost yearly with material which is not one bit better than we
have here. .Why do we, at Dalhousie,
with student body nearly doubling, in
numbers, that of the Sackville University, struggle on as athletic paupers,
depending on the voluntary aid of two
or three time-benovelent graduates for
our athletic instruction, when with no
additional cost, we could just.as easily

ive our student athletes the instrucion necessary for the production of
title winning aggregations.

This project is worthy of the support
of every Dalhousie un parcaslicte aia
only with the unanimous cooperation
of every member can the change be

enacted.
G. K, M.

| police.”

gibbering tongue strange confessions
that all could hear but only Jack could
understand,

The nurse realized that all was not
on the surface,

“Oh ‘Dr.’ Hohnes” she cried, ‘You
told me it was for a joke,”

Jack's face was set in hard grim lines,
“No more a joke than that was a
suicide.”’ He indicated a second shrouded figure that had not been discernible
in the dim light.” He turned to Beckworth,

‘You talked in your sleep last night"’
said he, and paused; then ‘‘Elsie once
promised to marry me. Here are the

 

 

Freshmen Defeat
Engineers

Fighting to retain a place in their
section of the League, Freshmen defeated Engineers by a score of 8 ta 7
in the closest game of the present Softball season on Monday afternoon in the
Gym at Studley. Scoring two rung
in each of the initial innings while they
held Engineers scoreless, the Freshmen
had a commanding lead going into the

 

third and looked good for a win, En
WwW BYES

Pagt Three

Dentistry Notes

At a recent meeting of the Dental
society it was decided to hold the
Annual dance at the Lord Nelson Hotel
on Friday, January 9th. Application
has been made to the Council to stage
the dance in the Gymnasium as the
first dance after Christmas, permission
has been granted, but the Society was
ot the opinion that the Hotel was
better equipped for the comtort of the
dancers.. ‘Lhe social committee was
instructed to make all arrangements in
order to make this the ‘best dance yet,’
Let's gol

Dentistry was inadverdently left
out of the Softball schedule but this
omission has been corrected and the
tooth-pullers have lost but two games
tO Gate,

lt has been noticed with pride by the
Dents that one of their number, big
jim McLeod, has becn the recipient of
@ hanusome medal, presented by the
Canadian boxing Association, as the
winner of the 118 pound class in the
championships held this past summer
at HMamiiten. jim is aiso the Maritune Champ in his class. A popular
chap, head and shoulders over ail
other coliege men, he has done more
than any person to put boxing where
itisat Val. Fresident of this organization, as well as hoiding that office in the
b, A, A. C,, his success is deserved.

it is interesting to note that aithough
Dentistry is the smallest faculty in the
University it has contributed many
men who have led student activities
and aided materially in student government, Of the former, Dr. George
McLeod, was captain of the Senior
tootball team and president of the
Db. A. A. C. in his final year, Of the
latter is George Macintosh, who held
the office of Secy-l reas. of the Council
of otudents, as well as managing the
Varsity Basketball team for two seasons

Psi Omega Dental Fraternity recently held a banquet at the Queen Hotel
entertaining the pledges, Big Jim
McLeod, H. Forrestall and J. Campbell.
At their next meeting they will have the
pleasure of hearing Ur. Dowell, President of the Halitax Dental Association,
who will present a paper, the title of
which is not known but will no doubt
be of interest to the members,

A highly instructive clinic was given
on Friday last in the art of porcelain
baking by Mr. McKenna, a technician
{rom the labratories of the well known
firm of S. S. White, manufactuers of
Dental supplies. The Senior class
alone could avail themselves of witnessing the progress this highly important
branch -of dentistry has made and it is
to be regretted that the other classes
of the faculty could not be present.

 

 

Student’s Council

The Student’s Council
final meeting for the year 1980 on
Monday, December first. The President, John Denoon was in the chair and
only two members of the council were
absent,

Various routine business was dispensed with following which the quarterly reports of the business managers
were presented This represents a new
link between the council and business
managers and is designed to strengthen
in at least some small degree, the
loose financial relationship which exists
between them,

A proposal to make Munro day, or
Founder's Day, an important day in
the college year was discussed at length
and a motion was passed expressing the
Council’s approval of the setting aside
of one day early in February asa real
‘Dalhousie Day,”

After much consideration it was:
decided to grant the Editor and Business Manager of the Year Booka
salary of fiity dollars upon condition
that the Year Book be kept within its
estimate and be up to the standard ‘of
its predecessors.

A short address by the President’
concluded the business for the evenin
and on motion the meeting alliouraed:

held their

 

 

gineers were far from through, however,
and itl the next two innings they got
their scores, while Freshmen we
unable to get a man across the plate.
Engineers got three runs in the third
and three in the fourth. Going into
their last inning, Freshmen were two
scores behind, but before the inning was
over they had scored four runs to bring
the total score to 8 to 6. In their last
half, Engineers tried desperately to
secure two tallies, but the best they
could do was one lone score. Taylor
and Menzies were both put out and
Fraser was caught out at the home plate
to bring the game to an end.

Heard Over Air

 

 

JOHN

DENOON .

wv

 
  
     
  

 

br

}

aa vie t

ce A tai nee

 

  
 
 
  

' » Ts visti.
a 415) PL ites
hit SG

   
     
 
  

wenty Year Term
uccessor is —

Biedlied by continuous advancement
Board of Governors pays

yf A

i

  
 

~

 

[honor to Dalhousie, and he has given
unstintedly of his services to many
causes outside the University, '

' During his term of office the Medical
School, the Law School and Dental
School have been reorganized and
incorporated with the University,
the Arts and Science Faculty enlarged
and a Department of Commerce es
tablished, thus greatly improving the
courses of instruction. Students have
increased in number from 411 in 1911
‘ing of. the Board of
jousie University,

  

 

  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
  

 

_ “At a meeting of the Board of Governors- of Dalhousie ere net
on T y; ember 2nd., Dr. A,
Stanley MacKenzie; President, of the
Jniversity informed the Board that
contemplated retiring, from his

Gfiice during the year 1931, by which | 12 to 967 in 1930-31, and the staff has
time he would have sarvecathe Uni-| increased from-63 to 163. In the
versity as its President for twenty | same period more than 1800 degrees in

the various faculties have been granted,
thus doubling in number the graduate
body of the University.

Prior to 1911 the entire physica!
property of the University consisted
of the Forrest Building and Campus
on Carleton Street. Its invested funds
amounted to approximately $347,000.
Dalhousie’s physical assets in that
year totalled, in value, about $500,000,

years, Dr, MacKenzie went on to
say that he had come to, no sudden
resolye in the matter, as members of
ae. Beard were aware, but he felt
that the announcement of his intended
Pee ar As this time would put the
. Board in a position to take the neceswary we to select his successor by the
end of the University fiscal year, which
coincided with the anniversary of his

appointment. Very deep and general/In 1911 Studley was purchased and
regret pia vokeal by members of the}in 1920 Birchdale was added. The
Board when they heard Dr. MacKen-| University grounds. buildings and

¢quipment are now valued at more
than $2,100,000 and its invested funds
aggregate $2,400,000. In twenty years
the annual expenditures of the University have increased from $47,000 to
$307,000."

zie's decision and they were reluctant
to accept it but the President made
clear that his decision to retire was)
final, and he desired to be relieved
at the end of the College year. At
the urgent request of the rd he
however considerately consented to
Carry on until his successor could be
appointed and installed.

President MacKenzie ‘assumed office
following the resignation of Dr. John
Forrest as President on July Ist, 1911.
During his term of office he has been
the mainspring of every endeavour to
enlarge the usefulness of the University,
and to develop and expand. its facilities
to meet the growing needs of the times.
Remarkable progress has been made
by the University during the last two
decades; and members: of the Board
feel that to President’ MacKenzie, in
very "i, SE ppc the credit is' due.
He has been unsparing of himself in
every effort which has been made to

‘the usefulness of Dalhousie

and the quality of its teachings. The
lanning of the University grounds at
udley and more particularly the

pe er ign of the buildings: are
rgely due to his excellent taste and
judgment. On numerous occasions President MacKenzie has represented the University at home and
abroad with distinction to himself and

“If I may be permitted a personal
word” the statement continues, ‘‘I
may say that, perhaps, I have been
thrown more intimately in contact
with President MacKenzie during the
last fourteen years than any one of the
present miembers of the Board, and I

labours have been, and that he has
sacrificed his profession, his personal
comfort and his health to advance the
interests of the University. The present day Dalhousie is the outcome of his
labours and. a montiment to his services.

Dr. -A. Stanley Mackenzie is the
fourth in the line of Presidents of
Dalhousie, Dr. Thomias’ McCulloch
Dr. James Ross, and Dr. John Forrest,
the first three Presidents, were Dalhousians by way of adoption. Dr.
Mackenzie is a son of the blood; He
is the first alumnus of the old College
to be appointed to the office of the
President. He was born in Pictou on
September 20th, 1865. He received
his' primary and secondary education

iS ins >» ae : ie : a Yoroge)
: - . .

   

therefore know how unremitting his

nae eee

 

 

 

 

 

standing in all walks of life,
truly he has been an ideal
man for the position.

xlasgow, and Halifax. He entered
Dalhousie at the agé of 17 years, winning and holding throughout the full
academic course one of the George
Munro bursaries! and. scholarships,
which opened the door to higher education to many a promising lad in Nova
Scotia in the eighties and nineties. He
completéd the Arts course and received
his Bachelor's Degree in 1885 graduating with honours in Mathematics, and

After two years of successful work
as tutor at Dalhousie, Dr. Mackenzie
| proceeded to John Hopkins University at Baltimore where he began the
of post-graduate study and
research work which led to his rise to
the top of his profession. He held a
Scholarship and Fellowship in’ Physics
Hopkins from 1889 to 1891.

Course

Mathematical Physics, and winning the | at John

Sir William Young Gold Medal, then | Jp the latter year he was appédinted
as now ont of the University's'most| Professor of Physics at. Brvn Mawr
distinguished awards. He spent two | Colk ge and in 1894 he was awarded
years teaching as Assistant Master | his Doctor's Degree by John Hopkins


of the Yarmouth Seminary. University. He remained at Bryn

In 1887 he received the appointment | Mawr unti! 1905 when he was recalled
at Dalhousie as Tutor in Mathematics|to his Alma Mater to take the Chair of
and Physics under Professor Charles} Physics which had been vacated by the

DR. A. STANLEY MACKENZIE.
in the public schools at Pictou, New| Personal Record is reviewed—-Out~
re et a meee

ANNOUNCES HI.

 
  

aa rem

Decertiber’ Sra, 1980

eae ant

 

 

RETIREMENT ©

. \Connection of the President

 

with Dalhousie Has Lasted

Thirty

Years

 

Joseph J.. Thomson of the Cavendish
Laboratories. '

In 1910 Dr. Mackenzie was offered
and accepted appointment of Professor
of Physics in the Stevens Institute ‘of
Technology at New York, but in the
next year he was summoned back to
Dalhousie to become its first-alumnus
| President, in succession to Dr. John

 

:

|

 

lof

Forrest.

In addition to the degrees earned in
the course of a brilliant Academic
career at home and abroad, President
Mackenzie had been honoured by
sister Universities. He is a Fellow of
the Royal Society of Canada and
has been one of the most prominent
members of the Industrial Research
Council of Canada. For many years
he has taken a lively interest in the
work of the .Counci! and has been an
influential factor.in the development
of a national policy of scientific research for the aid of industry.

Dr. Mackenzie's writings have been
mainly scientific. He is the author of

|papers which have been published in

the Philosophical Magazine, The Physical Review, The Journal of the
Franklin Institute, and the Proceedings
ef the American Philosophical Society.
He also published a work on ‘The Law
Gravitation.” But in addition to
formal addresses on academic occasions
he been a frequent lecturer and

has

| speaker on a wide range of educational

and social topics before Canadian Clubs
and other public organizations. Dr.
Mackenzie is a past President of the
North. British Society of Halifax, and
of the Halifax Curling and Golf Clubs.
He is a keen curler and finds congenial
recreation in fishing and shooting.
He has borne a steadily increasing
weight of responsibility and duty with
the, growth of the University. Yet
he has been ready in his response to
many extramural calls and has taken
a Warm interest in the affairs’ of the
community.

Dr. Mackenzie’s appointment to the
Presidency was signalized by the inauguration of the Forward Policy of
the new Dalhousie. Under the Chairmanship of the late George S. Campbell,
the Board of Governors purchased in
1911 the Studley property of forty
acres, and it developed upon the young
President at the very beginning of his
tenure of office, to undertake the heavy
task of translating the University to
the new seat and of launching the
movement for public support which
has madé possible the group of classic
architecture which adorns the Studley
Campus. Under his*leadership in 1912
the first campaign for funds vielded

Macdonald, and J. Gordon Macgregor, |appointment of his old teacher. that} more than $400,000. In 1920 a second
names of high distinction in the history ; brilliant Nova Scotian, James Gordon| appeal was made to Dalhousie’s friends
of Dalhousie. He had as his contem-| Macgregor, to the great Chair of |and more than $2\250.000 was the
porary there the late Dr. Howard} Natural Philosophy at Edinburgh Uni-|response. Dr. Mackenzie was the
Murray, Dean of the University for| versity. During his Professorship at|mainspring in all these enterprises.
many years, who was the tutor in| Bryn Mawr, Dr. Mackenzie spent a | He was in constant touch with every
Classics under the great classical | year (1904) in research work in England | phase of the rejuvenation of the Uni
teacher Professor John Johnson, lat Cambridge University under

Sir versity.

Filost Successful New Vear

His ideas were embodied in

sean ee ne

a be Casette Extends to its Hany
Readers the Sincerest Wish
- for A flerry Christmas and G

oe

 

Gs

the architectural plans he superintended the landscaping of the campus, he
kept an alert: eye on the progress of
construction, all the while performing
the administrative and acadentic duties
of the President's office.

During. the. twenty years) of Dr.
Mackenzie's presidency the endowment
fund. has increased. to $2,400;000, The
investment in buildings and equipment
has risen to $2,100,000. A new Dalhousie
had been created at Studley and the
academic progress had kept pace with
the material growth of the University.

The Faculty of Arts and Science and
of Law were reorganized. The Medical
College was incorporated as an integral
part of the University and Departments
of Engineering, Dentistry, Pharmacy,
Commerce, Music and Fisheries were
established. The numberof students has
grown to 967. The teaching sta to 163.

President Mackenzie took an_ influential part in the negotiations which
culminated in the association of King’s
College with Dalhousie, and the completion recently of the former’s group
of college buildings on the Studley
campus. He was also closely identified
with the munificent benefaction made
by the late Mrs, E. B. Eddy of Ottawa
for the erection of Shirreff Hall, the
women’s residence, and is one of the
most active members of the Board of
Trustees which erected and administers
the New Archives Building.

During Dr, Mackenzie’s ‘term of
office the centenary of the University
founded by Lord Dalhousie in 1818
was celebrated, and the first re-union
of Alumni and Alumnae was held -in
1919. He has been the central. figure
in the succeeding re-unions of 1924
and 1929, the latter of which was distinguished by the conferring of honorary degrees upon Hon. Vincent Massey,
Canadian Minister to the United
States, Hon. William Phillips, United
States Minister to Canada, Hon. E. N.
Rhodes, then Premier of Nova Scotia.
Hon. J. L. Ralston, then Minister of
National Defence, Hon. A. K. Mac
lean, President of the Exchequer Court
of Canada, George W. Schurman,
lawyer of New York, F. J. Mackitttick,
research Engineer, Schenectady, N. Y.,
and Frederic ‘Yorston, Journalist, Montreal, and by the memorial oration of
C. H: Gahan, M. P:

The first President of Dalhousie, Dr.
Thomas) McCulloch, held office from
1838 to 1848, the second, Dr, James
Ross, from 1863 to 1885, and the third,
Dr. John Forrest from 1885 to 1911.
Dr. Mackenzie's association with Dalhousie has covered a period of more
than thirty years—four years as a
student in the old Dalhousie on the
Parade, two years as Tutor and five
years as Professor in the second Dalhousie on Carleton St., (now known as
Forrest Hall) and twenty years thereafter in the presidential office. It is‘a
record unique in the history of’ the
University.

>
:

 

 

 
  
   

ie ee
a ¥

e

a 5

A

"

_—

fay i

ie

i

ie ere

 

 

 
  

,
a

Ym mn

ih
ae

se
al

%
,,

;}
¥

B ? acychologist’s opinion that men, clothes
_ cana other woruan welee only real

corroborate -his ‘statement.
' Mately it is true and such poverty of

7 it

| A Play Priacted by Dal.

the

In “Through the Looking Glass,” or
=" similar Gazette column, the subject
of women’s conversation with women

was discussed. The» writer quoted a

subjects
occupied
nfortu
mind is only another factor which goes
to show that a B. A. degree is futile
for most women. The usual conversation at the ‘‘Hall” displays no more
intellect than that of the average eighth

de child. As I -write.this article,
| can overhear four girls arguing about
their favorite: Christian. names. One
‘can’t stand ‘Jane’;’’ another ‘‘adores
Margaret” and this has been kept up
for thirty minutes. Every girl knows
with whom'every other girl gocs out;everyone knowsjust who are the leading, men about the college, and. great
is the discussion as to who are the
“cutest.” A dance supplies conversation for days.

A girl’s success at college is not
measured by her scholastic ability, but
by the decisive question—*Does she
go out much?” J once heard a Dal
ousie co-ed questioned as to how
another girl was ‘getting on’’ at college.
“Oh—uh—not very well, I’m afraid”
was the answer.

““Really—I always thought she was
clever.”

"Oh, she made five first classes, but
I mean she didn’t get to many of the
dances.”’

The colleges are beginning to be
filled up with young girls whose parents
want them to ‘‘go somewhere” after
High School. they are neither
artistic nor musical ‘nor have they
the ability to train for any specials
career, they decide to take an Art
course. Many of them expect to have
a ‘‘marvellous time’ for a few years
and perhaps they may. ~ Many fail,
and becoming discouraged, they leave
college, but the average bright young
oy by picking a “‘Bib. Lit—English

IIL’ course, will get a degree with
little effort.

is year a Freshette came up to
me on Registration Day and said:
**Write down five things for me to take
—anything at all but Algebra or Latin.
I don't care.”

Only yesterday I heard a senior
brag that she had never taken a book
from the library since she came here,
If such are the ideas behind a college
course it is little wonder that conversation which should be the vehicle for
the interchange of ideas, is directed
at all times towards such friviolous
matters.

Nor does that mean that all conversation should be of a heavier nature.
Nothing would be more ridiculous;
but by the time a young woman has
spent four years at a university, she

uld at least be able to talk intelliage about: some places of modern
ife, about contemporary writers or
other such subjects. She should have
thought about her philosophy of life;
the ideas of religion which she had
before coming to, college shou.d have
changed in some respects. Yet ‘any
arguments I have heard on:such questions are ludicrously child-like.

Young girls who do come here with
the idea of a well-balanced college life
are either distracted by collegiate

success or lead an unhappy life because:

they are different from the majority
and find themselves completely out of
things.

If the parents realized just how their
daughters were spending their time, the
colleges would soon be emptied with
the exception of those who are training
for definite careers. They cannot be
kept in ignorance for long, and when
they make the discovery, the education
of the attractive young girl who is
almost sure of marriage in a few years
will undergo a complete change.

——__+-- > ——__

If fame comes after death, I am in|nearer and is soon to be waged.
ne hurry for it.— Marital. R. K,

 

to fill a long felt need of the Student Body.
Seven and made be! . x
the Faculty, the

 

   

ness in this room.

University Store is an attempt, beginning on a small scale

sit h co-operation of that body and members of
ore has, in its first year made possible for the studentsa
saving of ‘0 mat ae on many lines*of text books running into many
_ hundreds of dolla The Tuck Shop is managed ne Roy Atwood, under the
auspices Canadian National Institute for the

of the largest operators of concessions

, rioh ae hee FF

4

housie Students

Scene: The College Library. A large
Berne a ables arranged in

ttalion-like procession. Around the
walls are ruse, statues, trophies
and the like. Lower down, shelves
are none too copiously filled with books

 

When the Daily Press is devoting
ern after Heinen to a ee eae
: llyhoo for the coming Hockey season

notably ancient classics.. Two large . :
fireplaces are at each end of room, |2ud thousands of ‘spectators. line the

eT ae seated. at one end of this OR: | - cial eae oe ce
while the opposite sex occupies the ; .
other end, Bells ring intermittently. many more thousands tune in on their

radios to hear managers, promoters,
There is apparent an e of as and what nots, eae ie praises of
tee obseal of connie eraaminanionn| Pci" parser sare, thon the av.rag
nee es : en aoe : re notice the conspicuous absence of his
: See et DOME | Cast iL. | College from the sport headlines and to
tive glances at this,—that and the other ST oReaaiihacwirotand’ wherefore of
thing. Others have their noses buried | och things y 7
en xt books. Still others Just where does Dal fit in this scheme
TI riously and hastily scribble away| 45 “frozen floors, flashing steel, clicking
ne various types of college students | turnstiles, and roaring crowds? Are
are well exemplified here. The mom-|\. in it?’ Well I guess—not! Can we
ent the swinging doors open, all eyes get in it? Shall we? Answer your
turn towards the new entrant. Curt own Hows? Whats? Wheres? and
remarks pass, either at one or the other Whys? But before you draw your
end of the coom, depending bon lown conclusions take Took and ou
A élight cominctian. i Wov talisiie Glee ae? silver lining that hasn't
a ES | four Fiver ase ions been very noticeable for some time.
Fire rere wanes ; ae True it is that turnstiles no longer
ike saucers surreptitiously creep Out) Qjick so freely and so musically. In fact
ia desk re a ok ee their accompaniment to the perforre ae The a qd Lil Or future! mances of Dal's sextettes, during the
= ne. . ae a cactus past few years, sounded like the dying
ers. Atears of the quasirevoimtion. | cluck of the goose that laid the golden
e ae ep eee ae eggs. The roar of the crowd, too, has
ee ao% as fen oat aaa to | become more individual. But cheer
OF Paying tie cask attenon <-lup we're coming out of the anaesthetic
all that goes on, Quiet again begins]. 714 ay my yet be well
to reign. Door opens again. \ EoW| The Decline and Fall is history but
é ; anal, keg not so ancient as to be of no interest,
his leather heels click on the linoleum. Pheiiediine came saturaiiy and can he
i Pat,, aay Fevesireate prohan accepted with good grace but the Fall
et mene ee. Ceneees Ss 1 jcame quite differently and thereby
taken up by the students, mostly male, |). ‘ ai Whe Bigee that’ laid
who mimic and resent the disdainful Dale he ek ai eM Gee oe
exhibition of self-assurance by Fresh- ores ind belt ee Be bit 53 a
nian. : DeIL, t Was a heavy DioOW

Rintsnse atound the momte vations and why shouldn’t it have been? Was
students, pries into the innermost not the hand that struck made solid

tie MO See ote and - reveals with shekels? What matter that the
interesting pensees, ref, the fans, and all concerned knew
mtn ii aid’ t lamwe this come this? It’s an ill wind that blows ‘no
pulsory class till my final year? Gosh ee and the power that laid Dal low
look at that Sophomore. No wonder| °° boosted others among the stars.
he gets through. Whenever I come in There glory is great though it rests on a
the library he’s studying away. Get | Structure that is such twisted, strained,
through? Why I'd get a Ph.D. if I and bent caricature of the rules and
worked that hard. This sure is one regulations as to be scarcely recognizsubject I’d rather my enemies had to able. Dal is still groggy but the air
take, Sic TransitGloria Mundi. Whew!|'8 Clearing. The weight of the shekels
just look at the looks I’m getting for|'® fast removing our opponent from our
merely putting my feet on the table,|Cl@ss and the day is approaching when
What's wrong in that? What if I even stars may twinkle ill our fir mabrought a bag of peanuts and threw the ment and remain there undisturbed.
empty shells on the floor, What Came the dawn! | r
privilege has a senior around here any- L W hen the New Eastern Hockey
way? Oh bother, I can’t work. Guess | -®4sue opened a new era for the game
I'll go down and have a smoke, Any-|'" this section of the province it also
way, I have two weeks left yet. Even closed one for Dal. New and stiffer
if 1 do. get ploughed, I can make itup|CO™Petition, new and better players,
in the Spring. longer schedules all gave signs that |
Freshette: I wonder how these |8Uch was not to be for Dal. The new
College Professors mark us. Wasn’t baby soon became the pet of the fans
Jack courteous and manly at the Soror- and the City Senior League is now a
ity Dance last night? I’m. beginning |thing of the past. With it went Dal’s
té believe that he's not very anxious hopes of remaining in a senior circuit.
to date me up any longer. There’s The end seemed near when it became
Betty studying hard at Math. What |¢Vident that any star players who came
chance have I against her? Wish 1|t© Dal would soon be convinced, for
had a cent so I could fill my pen.| Practical reasons that their place was in
What show ison at the Capitol? Won-|the N.E. L. This was probably the
der why I haven’t heard from home. | °"¢ thing most likely to prevent the
Guess they must be sore cause I lost| evelopment of a good team at Dal.
the $20 they sent me last week. Oh, Today that may still happen but it is
Gee! there’s the second bell and I’ve} "°t nearly so likely to and herein lies
got to go to my lecture. How am [|9¥t hope. With the standard of play
ever going to get my work up. [’ll|i™proving every season, the competition
have to stay in tonight. growing keener, the managers of N. E.
Studious Sophomore: Won't they | /- teams are no longer content to draw
ever stop talking around here. Ah,|°" the talent of local youth and, from
that’s better, If the exams aren’t any | YeTy Necessity, must seek farther afield.
harder than last year’s, I'm O. K. I'd Today when a hockey player of real
never get through if it weren’t for these ability comes to Dal, the students can
summaries and apportioning my time|Tely. om seeing him perform in a Dal
correctly. College is not bad after uniform, Players of this type cannot
all, but exams were always uncertain be expected in any great number but
in their results and unpleasant in the
trying period immediately preceeding
them. Well anyway I’m trying my
best. That’s all I can do.
Dusk is beginning to fall, The
minutes ever moving in one direction,
rapidly approach the hour hand at six
o'clock. Students shuffle their notes
back into their books. Look fatigued.
Far away look in their eyes. Bell
rings. Half a dozen flock to the desk
to obtain only copy of a reserved book.
The Trial by Ordeal is rapidly raw
xe
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    

 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

unt.

Conceived by

the Committee of

Blind and marks the first
in the world to establish

 

‘DALHOUSIE

Hockey -
ha Ray of Light is Shining

 

}
to

Ae
°

 

 

it is, nevertheless, some satisfaction
to realize that, when they do come,
their services will be at Dal’s disposal.

It is obvious, of course, that Dal
must be content with Intercollegiate
Hockey. There is no reason whatever
why this league should not breed good
players, well balanced teams, and stiff
competition. Leagues of an _ Intermediate status flourish in other, centres
with plenty of competition from stronger amateur leagues and professional
circuits.. If Dal can produce’ a smooth
working hockey team, capable of winning such a league, it won’t be long
before students will get behind it and
hockey will again rank as a major sport
in the college, An attractive playing
schedule plus a few well-earned victories will do wonders and there is no reason to think that this will not happen
this year.

It is not to be expected, however,
that even a good team will command
any great support from the students.

It will take time to do that, Hockey
is a game that attracts spectators
through its own merit. It is only

natural that students are going to see
the best available. After that they
may take in a Dal game. It is quite
probable that a greatly improved team,
capable of humbling other Colleges,
will arouse their interest. Once that
is done half the battle is won and it
only remains to carry on.

 

Girls Inter-Class
Basketball

League

The Girls’ Inter-Class League for this
year is now. drawing to a close, Keen
interest was-shown from the beginning,
and it is just since the exams have been
posted that the crowd is not turning
out as well as before. We were able
to have two freshette teams, one
Sophmore, one Junior and one Senior
also two Kings teams entered. Kings
‘‘A’”’ are leading the league by twentyfour points over the Seniors, each team
has three more games to play.

With the material from the five class
teams, there should be a strong intercollegiate team, to meet Acadia and
Mt. Allison after Christmas.

—~+-e—____.

The rejection of Praise is the desire
be praised twice.—La Rouchefoucauld

 

|

|

|
|
|
|

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The

fastest growing
newspapers in

Nova Scotia

OR THOPHONICS
RECORDS, PIANOS,
MUSICAL GOODS
of all kinds
RADIOS and
RADIO COMBINATIONS

Also Fiction Lending Library

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

 

-Parry’s Restaurant
Cor. Coburg Road and Seymour St.

(UP-STAIRS OVER STORE)

HOME COOKING

MEALS AT ALL HOURS

 

 

Softball Game
Freshmen defeated Baginess by a
score of 20 to 16 in a regular scheduled
me of the Interfaculty Softball
ague last oe afternoon in the
Gym. Despite the big score, the game
Was interesting, Engineers scored seven runs in the first inning, and seven
more in the second. Freshmen got
six in the first and nine in the second.
From then on until the end it was real
close. Engineers were held scoreless in
the third and fourth and collected one
run:in the final Freshmen were able
to get two in the thrd and three more
in the fourth, giving them the game.

Conn Sutherland and\|Hal Connor
did the hurling for Freshmen, the for- |
mer pitching three innings, while
Connor was in for one. Both hurled
fine games. Murray and Taylor divided the pitching burden for the Engineers.

Line up—

Freshmen—Tapley c; Sutherland p;
Miller 1b; Zinck 2b; Eaton Lf.; Bennie s, s.; Ryan s. s.; Connor r. f,.; Dorman c.f.; Lloy 2b.

Engineers—Harries c; ;

3b:
Fer
 

Murray

Fisher lb; Fraser 2b; Corkum
McCollough |. {.; Menzies s. s.;
guson s. s.; Taylor c. f.; Kell r. f,

 

Turret Hath Charms

S. Webber 2b; H.

Pine Hill Defeats Arts
and Science.

Pine Hill defeated Arts and Science
by a score of 4 to 3 in a close and
exciting game of the Interfaculty Softball League last Wednesday evening
in the Gym. Pine Hill played a little
better game than their opponents and
deserved their victory. Nevertheless
it was a close shave. In the final
inning with only one man out, Arts had
the bases full with the score 4 to 2
against them. Sutherland scored on
Smith’s hit to bring Arts to within one
run of Pine Hill, With two men still
on bases things did not look bright for
the Hillers, but Oland was put out
attempting to steal home and the next
batter up struck out,

Roy McDonald pitched a fine game
for Pine Hill, while Ferguson hurled
well for Arts,

The teams lined up as follows—

Pine Hill—F. McDonald c; R. MeDonald p; S. Chandler 1b; S$. McDonald s. s.; H. McIntosh 2b; D. Archibald 8b; J. McDonald r. {.; A, Ormiston c. f.; D. Christie s. s.; J. Jarvis 1. f;

Arts and Science—Y. Oland c.;
D. Ferguson p.; J. McCarthy 1b;
Cunningham 3b;
R. Dockrell s. s.; A. Thurlow c, f.;
M. Claener 1. f.; L. Sutherland r. f.;

 

Smith s. s,

9

i

RRSCNSE
HINA

\ i

i |

NY

That’s it — coax
her away with
Turrets — then
you can smoke
in peace and
quietness.

URRET

muld and fragrant

Cigarettes
Save the valuable “POKER HANDS”

 

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Twenty-five scholarship of $756.00 each.

Write Or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

YELLOW CAB}|{G.A. McDonald

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Houra.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

 

 

 

 

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workWe have specialized in this
Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

ti
men.
field for years. |
Halifax. |

Musie in all Branches. Teacher's

| Halifax Ladies College
Conservatory of Music

 

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

21 Spring Garden Road

PERMANENT WAVE
Ringlets Ends $10.00

Regular $15.00 wave for $10.00
on the ‘“‘Keen”’ machine
which recently won major
honors at Philadelphia against
the world’s best. No better
wave at any price. Marceling Finger Waving and Bob.
bing.

Shield’s Beauty Parlor

510 ROY BLDG. . Tel. B6748

 

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Household Science: Teacher's
and Dietician’s Certificate,

Certificate. Graduation Diploma.

Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.
WOOD, B.A.,

MR. HARRY DEAN,
_Wirector of Conservatory
*


4
>
—
ae
° a
i d
4 +
J i
F '
{>
is
* ; A
i" r .,.
ae
ih n
1 J
14g 1
he
res
ot aa
pa
& iy ‘
L - ay e
Se
tal mali
ae
( a ,
Pig a
aN
i
ire
, ,
ed b i >
bl \e
ign
a |
fry Pins
: 4 a> ie
} at
Ml omg a,
1 F J \ ‘ _
' : ;
ae
de yee,
: i
Bae as.
ye i "1
* 5 uy
PS x
.
. t
i a OF
7 Ps .
' r
7 i
a ‘ i
ti)
fo * ee
mare,
ae er
, “=
af +’
>
lated sb. /
a '
rn ] #
aN £ i
‘ rk
7 it,
7”.
ie *
< pm i] °
.
. a 4
Des
A 7 ie
‘ 2
om oes
a
- 1"
i ‘
i
r.
ti i
i) ae
«
- |.
i
he
< ad
i >
i
- :
or!
'

‘

;

\

erg
< t
i

OOS Ee ee ee
rsa
re

See, a She
< oe a ~
rte, ae es ge
oer ay, ge

—

ai
a - mad ? b
ae a - 2 ao
Sa

- a

Sa Tn Fa
Serna oes
; 2.
an.

+

5 as
as

i aay K

‘

ae 7
oe gee = a

:

T ty

'v

be Bit
z ’ meey “Many J ,
mS ey as afar are due to the fact that much

ay

nt is Foundation and

course between Americans and

that extent.

c Or : toe
r a fear one

- fo govern
the aa a iiganace! tilt
Canada in 1911 the Sones Uy.
yo have received
; y Pe acidalenocerelatl

the Americans ‘could Fi

our. overnment as to the tariff,
would have it, lowered instead of |’

O ‘faveatehenes’ it is}.
admittec one ay are increasing, but
t is all to. the: advantagement of |
, hot tc

‘its detriment.
ilarities between the two

the a cat stock of the two countries

oes one: will deny that the influence
ae such institutions as the Carnegie
the MassachusettsMee Relief Commission are beneficial

i nh ‘Morton, spoke: on the social
_ and moral sides of the question. In the
ce st place the influence of U.S. is felt

through the medium of personal inter
_ dians, many of whom. are related.

_ Again, Canadian newspapers are full
of U. S. news notes and ijlustrations.
Cheap and vulgar magazines flocd the
country, Qur movies are controlled
by Paramount Public and Famous
_ Players Corporations and 90% of our
films are from Hollywood, Many films
and magazines are undesirable by their

_ nature—morally, and bad for our speech

English accent and manners seem
odd, while-U, S. don’t.
“Much of this influence is inherently
bad. All of it deadens our initiative.
e don’t want to copy all our life.
That is admission of inferiority.
|, Helen Champion, poweiful compe~tition is the best stimulus to initiative.
The United Statcs influence is good to
Again, our trade with the
‘United States is very valuable economiany aed we don't want to curtail it
from economic motives, and from

the standpoint that it 2 us on good

terms with a very powerful neighbour.
We don’t want to arouse antagonism in
the United States.

American tourists are a large source
of profit to us which we want to keep.
Canadians are not wealthy people while
Americans are. We want to stay on
_ good terms with them. ©

The American influence is necessary

| tooureconomiclife.

aldeaitame this, McCarthy and Don
ees rebuttals.
he floor. was. thrown open to dission cDon among the sp sakers were
sordon | rries, Don

ae

Cana- |
Ss 6 ee re —_—

|Softball Standing

: Results of last week’s Softball
or —20 ENGINEERS 15
| —24 , PRES ;

THEOLOGY —ll ENGINEERS 3

ARTS 6
Standing of the League;
Section A. Won. Lost.
Arts | 0 :
Dentistry
Section B.
Theology
Freshmen
Engineers
Section C.,
Medicine
Commerce
Kings

Theology Again
Wins from
Engineers

Theology defeated Engineers for the
second time this season by a score of
18 to-6, while Arts defeated Dentistry
11, to 1 in the Interfaculty Softball
games played on Saturday afternoon,

A nine run rally in the first inning
Was sufficient to give Theology the
game over Engineers. With the exception of this inning Theology were
outscored 6 to, 4, but their margin of
safety was sufficient. Fifteen batters
faced the Engineers pitcher in Theologs
half of the first inning. For the rest
of the game both teams played good
ball. Engineers scored one run in the
first inning, two in the second, onein
the third, one in the fourth and one
in the fifth, The final score was 13 to
5. Anderson pitched for Theologs,
with Murray and Taylor for Engineers.
Henry Cunningham was umpire at the
plate.

Score by Innings 1 2

Engineers... 1 2 0 1 —65

Theology.... 9 1 3°-0X —13

Theology—Irwin 2b; Miller 1b; Dick
son c; Sullivan s. s.; Anderson p;
Braine s. s.; Gordon |. f.; Kitzawa s. s.;
Archibald 3b.

Engineers—Menzies 3b; Murray p;
Harries c; Fraser 2b; Fisher 1b; Shatford s. s.; : McCullough I. fi. Mader s. 2;
Taylor r. 'f

8 4 5
1

: 'd Ganesh Sawh, 1
ne oe ee he “stoner ea ‘elivered the decision |

we ae ar soem:

‘the fucges Dr. MacKinnon, Mr.
owse, a himself! in favour of the
Since. Prof. Read commented

Lens bad debate, Sy

Games to be
Played this week

' 
Wednesday, December 3rd—5.30 P.m.
—Law vs. Dentistry
Friday, December Bth—6, 30 P, M.—
Commerce vs, Medicine.
Saturday, December 6th—2.30 P, M.
Freshinen vs. Theology.
Sige, December 6th—3.15 P,. M.
—Law vs. Arts and Science.
Saturday, December 6th—4.00 P. M.
—Kings vs. Medicine.
All postponed games of the schedule

- will be played through the week,

——a

Potter Oyler motored home for the
week-end, He reports the roads still
passable.

| A Chine Is Good
| For Everybody |

Why not a meal or
-. lunch at the .’.
GREEN LANTERN
occasionally? .".

| The Green Lantern

GOOD EQUIPMENT
For Good Athletes

ie demand
Bete Spo emand the

mes: L

THEOLOGY —13 ENGINEERS 6
‘—l1 DENTISTRY 1

Arts Lead Their
_ Section

_Arts continued their winn ing streak,
when they defeated Dentistry 11 to 1.
The pitching of Ferguson for Arts and
‘Peters for Dentistry were the high
points of the game. Ferguson struck
out 7 men, but walked 8, while Peters
had six strikeouts and allowed five
bases on ball. Arts had their big
inning in the second when the secored
Sof theirllruns. In this inning Peters
allowed six safe hits, walked two men
and struck out one.’ Two got to base on
infield errors. Dentistry scored their
lone run in the second inning, when
Ferguson allowed three safe hits in a
row, Keefe, scoring on McMiullen’s
single.

ScorebyInning 1 2 8 4 6
Arts 18:310%i241 —4Ii1
hea: OG. ED. OO ee1
Bob Thompson was umpire atthe

plate.

Line up—

Arts—Sutherland 1b; Cunningham
3b; D. Ferguson p; Oland c; Thurlow c.
Fe ; Lorway 3b; Claener r. f.; ke Ferguson
l. f.; McCarthy s. s.

. Dentistry—Peters p; Duxbury 2b;

Keefe s. s.; McIntosh c.; McMullen

Allanach 1b; Harris s. s.; Parker r. f.
The present standing of the League

as a result of Saturday’s games finds

Arts leading their section. Medicine

is at the head of the second section

and Theology out in front in the thir
section. The winners of the three
sections will play off in a series for the
championship. Theology won from
Medicine in the finals last year.

Arts Beat Law in
Best Game of
Season

Arts winning over Law by a scoreof 6 to 2, and Theology defeating En
gineers 11 to 3 were the results of the
two games played on Thursday in the
Interfaculty Softball League at the Gum

The first game was one of the finest
of the season. Law who were rated
highly after their victory over Dentistry
were favorites to win. But they met
an insurmountable barrier in Don
Ferguson, who pitched for Arts, and
who struck out nine men in the five

The Nova Scotian Hotel.
SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

IDEAL FACILITIES FOR =

Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons
or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

| CASINO

Week Dec. Ist
Mon.-Tues.-Wed.

The great London Stage Farce
‘One Embarassing
Night’
1000 Laughs!
Thur.-Fri.-Sat.

JOHN
BARRYMORE

Herman Melville’ s Classic
of whaling Days

‘Moby Dick’

DRUGS

STUDENTS SUPPLIES

idacLeod-Balcom, Ltd

CHEMISTS

OPPOSITE

Bank of Nova Scotia

AND

St. Andrew’s Church

—=
TEA DANSANT

4 to 6 p. m.
every Saturday Afternoon

Cover Charge $ .50

Service A la Carte

SUPPER DANCE

9 to 12 p. m.
every Saturday Night

Cover Charge $ .75

Service A la Carte

APPOINTMENTS AND SERVICE PERFECT FOR ALL
TYPES OF FUNCTIONS AT

The herd Nelson Hotel —

“The Social Centre”

.Jinning, when Arts got four safe hits

ee

Pe ak aid ie
Consider Carefully

we

innings, allowing only five hits, all of
them being singles. Law played good
ball, with the exception of the second

to net them five runs. For the next
three innings mer did not get another
score.

‘The game was marked by the nice
fielding of the two teams,’ Law had
two double plays to their credit and
Arts had one,

LeBrun and Rosenblum for Law,
Ferguson and Oland for Arts were the
batteries of the two teams.

Score by Innings— 12 3 4 5

Arts 16 0 0 O06

0190 0 1-2

Arts—Sutheriand 3b; Cunningham
s, s.; Ferguson p-; Oland c.; Thurlow r,
r. f.; Lorway 2b; Clasner c. f.; McCarthy ‘lb; Ferguson r. f.; Dockrell s. s.

Law—LeBrun p.; Stewart lb; Kanigsberg 2b; Smith s. s.; Hicks s. S.;
Me Dougall rot Rosenblum c.: Pattillo
3b; Donahoe |. f.

Borden Stoddars was umpire at the
plate and Bob Thompson on the bases.

Consider that today....and every.
day....you are on dress parade
before a battery of feminine eyes,
They peek at you from behind
most anywhere, from every nook
and crannie.

Think! THINK!! youngman what
it means to you to be known asa
man who wears Colwell university
styled clothes. And it’s such a

simple, inexpensive matter after
all.

$29.50 $34.50 $45.00

We are showing a large assortment of
men's wear suitable for gifts. We
invite your inspection,

Colwell Brothers

Limited
453-457 Barrington Street

You Cant Go Wrong!
Neckwear as Gifts

A Wide Choice

30c «» $2.00

And what a selection confronts
every gift buyer! Think of
getting such wonderful mogodores, barathes, and moires in
every likeable color combination in stripes and in other
patterns of the winter season.

Men’s Ensemble Shirts and Ties
Each $2.75 t $3.75

These shirt and tie ensembles come in attractive indtvidual boxes. Of percale and imported

shirtings, blues, browns and mauve with fancy stripes. Ties to match each shirt. Sizes 14 to 17
7 "MARITIME. NC°

Se TT

Eaton's Main Floor

= La 1, wll a 7 _
eee ial

+
ae —~—k

A
ee

 
