  

  

Se

Batt ative raw? ft:
ee
‘
i

 
 
 

  

"—
2. A.
, + :
be iy

7 \

4 , is

   
   
   
   
 

|| OF ANY COLLEGE

_ PAPER IN THE
- - MARITIMES

 
           
   

COLLEGES

The 1927 Dalhousie Year Book
Committee would be very grateful to any student or professo
willing to lend Year Books of

er universities for use dur
ing the next few weeks.

lenders that the best of care will
be taken of their books, whil
in our hands. Those willing to
lend them kindly get in touch
with Ralph Morton, Ron McColl
or anyone of the committee.

J. E. RUTLEDG
ADDRESSES
COMMERCE

. E. Rutledge, president of the
Halifax Commercial Club, addressed the
Commerce Society on Bonds last Thursday afternoon. Mr. Rutledge gave a
thorough discussion to the subject and
cleared up many doubtful points about
bonds.

He first told about the different kinds
of bonds there are on the market today.
The class of bonds issued depend on the
(? market at the time they are floated, he
A said. He told of the numerous details

of floating a bond issue and cited several
f examples of Nova Scotia firms to strengthen his talk.

Rand Matheson, the president of the

society introduced Mr. Rutledge to
about 40 of the Commerce students
who took advantage of the lecture.

ey Current Events _
—  * Club Started

_ There has been a movement on foot
lately to form several new societies in
the University. It was felt that these
social gatherings will be of a distinct
help to the students who become memae bers. One such club was formed last

b, week. Another was began Tuesday
and will be known as the “Current
Events Club’. It's -purpose is to
promote free-and-easy discussion on all
current happenings, and also to promote
the art of public speaking.
: The officers for the coming term were
. chosen as follows:

Hon. Pres.: Prof. R. A. McKay
Pres.: I. Pottie

"tet Vice-Pres.: J. L. Dubinsky
; Sect.: G. Shapiro.

The topic chosen for the next meeting
is the “‘Anglo-French Naval Agreement”
Mr. P. Henley will provide the first

paper.

 

 

 

 

1 WHenaide,.

—Official Student

TO BE BROACHED
AT SODALES

Friday, Noy. 23

QUERE: DO GIRLS GET
THEIR MONEY’S WORTH

After the tremendous interest taken
in the proposal of the ten dollar fee last
year a large number of students have
been discussing the advisibility of
revising the present system of student
government. The college is divided
into three camps, those who wish to
see a change, those who do not and those
who are indifferent to whatever is
done. Of the latter class Dalhousie
has too many. In order to stimulate
the interest of the students in the
management of their affairs Sodales
plans to put on a debate that will have
all the thrills and features of a political
campaign meeting.

Should the candidates for office speak
publicly and fight out issues in the
customary way?

Should there be platforms and give
the students an idea what they are
voting for, or should the present system
be followed?

Should the principal officers be elected
by the entire student body? These and
many other questions will be thoroughly
debated and discussed.

Come down and hear the inside story
of student affairs at Sodales. Why the
managers of football, hockey and basketball are sometimes at odds with the
council. Why does the D.A.A.C. desire
the handling of its own finances? Is
the present policy of the Council of
centralization of finances a good one
or should the individual societies have
complete control in that regard?

A large number of students conversant with the problems will be there to
air their views, why shouldn't you?
If you don’t wish to say anything come
down and form an opinion, for in all
probability you will have to express one
before the college closes.

In all likelihood the President of the
Council will be there and a large majority of the council to give their views
whether the present system is satisfactory or not.

This debate is not in any way a
criticism of the Council or of its actions
but rather whether under the present
system affairs are being run as efficiently as possible.

P.S.—What opinions have the students of Shirreff Hall to say on this
matter? Are they satisfied with their
financial allotment or do they desire
a change in this part of the system?
Or in other words, do the girls get their
money's worth?

~_~— oe

Fi War and Memorial Services
| By Laurence Coffey

 

It was an evening late in November.
For the past week the weather had been
decidedly cold, with several snow
flurries. Everyone had on winter cloth: ing. On this day the weather had
. taken a sudden change, and, while it
; was warm, there was a clammy, foggy
drizzle which might be described either
as falling, or as in the air.

My friend and I had just come out
of a theatre, which had been rather
overheated, and were walking down
Barrington Street, bound nowhere in
particular, but heading in the general
ah direction of thé various cafes.
ni) The unnecessarily warm clothing we

. wore, and the depressing weather, had
put us in low spirits—apathetic. There
oe was only one thing in the world which
, . Ay appealed to me: I said to my companion,
ee, ‘‘What do you say if we have a bottle
of beer?”
s) “Funny, but I was dreaming about
ae the same thing myself and didn’t have
ab the energy to speak,’’ he replied.
_As we had been walking along in
silence, paying little attention to where
_—s we -~were going, we had passed all the
cafes and, at the moment when |
broached the subject of beer, we were
standing in front of a_bootlegger’s.
iy, We climbed the stairs and knocked on
the steel-clad door. Presently the shut_ ter was drawn back and an eye appeared
at the peep-hole. Recognizing us, the
_ door was opened wide enough for us to

and bolted again. We ordered ‘three
a There were only two other customers

and went into the large living
i

 

sme through and then was hooked

there, sitting at the table. One was a
man of rather military type, apparently
rather well educated, of the sort who
takes an active interest in civic and
national affairs, something the air of the
politician about him—one whose ideas
and opinions remain unchangeable
throughout his life.

The other man I took to be a West
Indian. (It subsequently appeared that
he was a Hindoo from India). He
spoke English as one who learned it
through study—very correct and literary style, but lacking in fluency and
facility. However, judging from the
empty bottles on the table, he was
rapidly learning the ways of the occident.

They stopped conversing when we
entered, but soon that unembarassed
intimacy of alcohol came into its own,
and they began again to talk:

“What do you find the most striking
difference between the Asiatics and the
Europeans?” inquired the Canadian.

The Hindu gathered his thoughts
together for a moment and (I will not
bore my reader by quoting mispronounciations and awkwardiconstructions),
said,

“I think the most peculiar thing is
your inconsistency with yourselves.
Your acts and emotions frequently are
direct opposites of what one would
expect, from your philosophical beliefs.
It is very difficult to understand your
attitudes, since your theories and
practices are so different.”

‘What, for instance, do you mean?”’

(Continued on page 3)

A

Committee Appointed

‘COUNCIL REFORM’) Ralph S. Morton Editor;

ee

OE

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 16th,

 

Publication at Dalhousie University—

1928

 

 

 

RALPH S. MORTON

‘Prof. Gowanloch
Encourages
Sonnet Writing

ee

OFFERS TEN DOLLAR
PRIZE

“For the best sonnet printed in
the Gaseiie—a ten dollar gold piece!
Every student eligible. Judges will
be named later. This is the whole
announcement, as made to the Editor
by Prof. J. N. Gowanloch.

It may be stated that Prof. Gowan.
loch has done a great deal towards interesting the students in_ scientific
research. He has always taken a
lively interest in the welfare of the
Gazette, and is at the present time
Chairman of the jury of award. Prof.
Gowanloch’s thoughtfulness in offering
this prize is a challenge to our would-be
poetesses and poets to get busy and
write a sonnet that will merit the expectations of one so genuinely interested
in student welfare as Prof. Gowanloch.

 

 

—

| Gditor Year Book

+

+

The committee of management has
been nominated, the Editor appointed
and work has now begun on the Year
Book of 1929, which promises to be the
best Dalhousie has produced. On Thursday, Nov. 8, at a meeting of the combined executives of the classes of '29 and
'30 the following committee was chosen:
Katherine Hanifen and Art Ross, representing the Year Book of '28; Ralph
Morton and Ron McColl of Class °29
and Lillian Barnstead and Witney
MacDonald of the Junior Class. It was
decided to empower this committee
to choose the editor.

At a meeting of the executive the
following working staff was selected:

Editor-in-Chief—Ralph Morton

Associate editor: Katherine Hanifen

Business Manager—Ron McColl

Sport Editor: Tom Parker

Photographic Editor—Lillian Barnstead

Critique Editor—Whitney Mac
Donald

Other members of the staff will be
appointed at a meeting of the near
future.

The staff have under consideration
many innovations and improvements
which will greatly add to the interest
and artistic appeal of the publication.
Among these will be a distinctive cover
of embossed leather, caricatures of
leading professors, snapshots of familiar
sights about the campus, more photographs and cartoons and everything
possible to make a brighter and better
Year Book.

The publishing of a Year Book means
an immense amount of work for the
staff who are quite willing to do their
part but cannot make a success of it
unless backed by the whole student
body.® There are hundreds of occasions
when help will be needed between now
and publication. Many will be directly
called upon to do their share but remember the staff, not having the gift
of mind reading, cannot possibly know
the abilities of each one. So it 1s your
duty to the college to come forward and
offer your services.

The Year Book is the official record
of the ability of a college. It is read
criticised, not only by students of
Dalhousie but by those of other universities who will judge us by the Year
Book we are able to produce.

The staff has planned to have the
book on sale on March 1, 1929. This is
advancing the date of publication one
month which makes it necessary to
have a good start made on the work
before Christmas. Students get behind the Year Book Staff NOW!

 

In H#lemoriam

The Honorable John Flint Cahan, Captain
Dalhousie 1909

 

Tt is difficult to find words that will Students Pay Tribute

express the feelings of those of us who
knew Jack Cahan, the Honourable
John Flint Cahan as he was known to
this generation.

I have known Jack Cahan for more
than thirty years. We were boys together, im school, on the old Alerts
cricket and football club, at the Y. M.
C. A. gymnasium classes, as a classmate in college and asacomrade inarms.
As a boy there was no better sportsman,
as a classmate in college there was no
better or more loyal member of his Class
and University. As a_ soldier there
was none more courageous or efficient.

In our abhorence of war we are apl
to forget or to minimize tts few vitrues.
Only a great tribulation can create the
mountain peaks of moral grandeur.
There are instances of individuals who
have proved under g.ievous strain that
man can rise to heights of courage,
devotion, love and loyalty to which
humanity in normal times is a stranger.
Shattered by the ravages of war, racked
by years of pain, rendered’ physically
helpless by his wounds, his spirit refused io succomb. Animated by a pure
ulealism, a fervour for public servicg,
and an abiding love for his fellow man
and for his country he triumphed over his
disability and devoted his life to his
country’s service. In his three short
years of political life his achievement
were great. The revival of education in
this province is his child and 1t would
have been an adequate life work for any
ordinary statesman.

Jack Cahan’s life should be an insptration to the youth of this land. To
me he is the supreme hero of the war,
the embodiment of all that is finest and best
in humanity.

to the Admirable
Qualities of a
Friend

With the passing of Capt. the Hon.
J. F. Cahan, the students from Yarmouth
attending Dalhousie University his Alma
Mater, were deeply saddened. We were
in daily communication regarding his
condition and knowing it was very sertous, we hoped and prayed he would be
Spared to continue the work that he so
cheerfu'ly and faithfully had done in the
past. His familiar smiling countenance will always linger in our memories. He was an outstanding figure
both in our own home town and on the
Streets of this city. He always greeted us
with a smile and a welcome. At every
public meeting of the town, regardless
of politics, we listened to his remarks with
intense interest. In politics he was an
admirable leader of his party. Each
class we aliend wi!l serve as a memorial
to him. We are proud of him for he
bears every mark of a man true to his
country, true to his work and true to his
ideals. He was to be a_ principal
speaker at the Armistice banquet at the
Lord Nelson Hotel and as a coincidence
our heartfelt sympathies are given at his
burial on Armistice Day.

We take this means of expressing our
sympathies to his bereaved family in the
passing of such an honored, beloved and
typical example of a man as our deceased

Dean John E. Read. | friend Captain the Hon. J. F. Cahan.

es

rg
tT)

BU ||

ees

 

 

CAPT. HUGH BELL
Students Support Solicited) At Memoria! Service

COMMITTEE PROMISES ‘“‘BEST YET”

Large Attendance

LAST POST AND TWO
MINUTE SILENCE

Over five hundred persons,—members of the faculty, students and visitors
assembled in the gymnasium, Sunday
morning, to honor those who made the
supreme sacrifice in Flanders fields.

The opening hym “O God, Our Help
in Ages Past,’ very effectively sounded
the depths of sympathy and remem
brance. Following this, Rev. John
Mutch of Fort Massey read two
passages of scripture selected from
Samuel and Revelations.

The most significant part of the
service, the commemoration address,
was delivered by Capt. Hugh Bell.
Having been ‘over there’ with the

Dalhousians, Capt. Bell was well suited
for this task. He fought and suffered
side by side with the very boys who
never came back and his is truly the
sympathy of a kindred spirit. It
impossible to picture the sufferings and
privations of war without having endured these in the trenches of France.
Capt Bell spoke of those he knew personally, members of the football team,
—mere boys—who faced death with
courage in their hearts and a jest on
their lips. In spite of continual din
and terror merging with death, a persistent spirit of levity prevailed among
the soldiers and few were utterly disheartened. Every here and there was
a soldier who seemed to have a perennial sense of humor and from these
men originated’ periodic epidemics of
light-heartedness which spread like
wildfire through the trenches. Strengely enough, only too often it was the
jovial, happy-go-lucky boy who stopped
a bullet. An idea of their spirit can be
gained from the fact that the men joked
and kidded each other while digging
their prospective graves before a battle.
But altho the boys spoke lightly of
death, to cheer their fellows, they were
far from being callous, and all felt very
acutely the loss of a comrade. One
imminent and ever-present dread—
almost on obsession with them—was
that of being mained for life. It seemed
that the nightmare of horror and
blood-shed would never end, _ that
humanity itself was sinking into irretrievable ruin. But the darkest hours
were just before the dawn. In> the
fall of 1918 there came a faint glimmer

iS

of light, of hope, of peace; and then—so
suddenly that it was almost
unbelievable—the Armistice! The

 

world went mad with joy and along the
Western front the scenes were indescribably. This amidst prayer and
the joyful ringing of bells, Armistice
Day wasborn. To perpetuate that day,
to hold it in remembrance above all

|

  

DIAMOND
JUBILEE OF

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

   
 

 

a

 

  

Awards
|

The Jury of Award, consisting!
of Professor Gowanloch, Prof-|
essor H. Read and Mr. Arthur
Murphy have made the follow-| ,

 

ing awards covering the first
four issues of the Dalhousie
Gazette.

 

First Prize in Poetry. |
‘‘Nature’s Music’’ by: Don Murray in the Oct. 19 issue.

First
\Gazette and
iby Earnest
issue.

Prose ‘‘The
Collegians’’|}.
Oct: 26;

in
the
Howse.

Prize

“Pine
John M.

 

Second Prize in Prose
||Hill Initiation’ by
‘Boyer. Oct. 12th issue.

|
“3

ee
Prof. Gowanloch
Addresses |
Mi ef +
idlothians
The Midlothian Society met last ’
Thursday, in the Drawing Room at
Shirreff Hall. Minutes were dispensed?
with, the President, Miss Gladwin,
introduced the ‘guest of.,the :eveniitg,
Professor Gowanloch, who gave, a,.most
interesting talk on the relation ‘of bidlog}*
to the life of each *individnal:! The: .
talk,—it was too. delightfully informal
to be called a lecture—was. illustrated
with a number of slides, which helped
the members of the socity to visualize
the mental. pictures? called’ wp by the
lecturer's skill::. Some ofthe. . Mid=
lothians were -agreeably,:surprised to
learn that tiny, tiny cells, only’ visible
under the microscope,, are responsible
for each one's love-of music—or poerty
—or of beauttfial’“things in general.
The. lantern was ably -worked ly Miss
Eleanor Chesley a student of biology.
After the talk, which came to an end
far too soon, refreshments were served
in the Library. -* By
A. hearty: vote\of: thanks was. offered
to Professor..Gowanloch for his great
kindness in giving ‘Nie society so enjoyable an evening. ’

 

 

 

 

pirations for the future by some ceremony which. should be symbolic of the
sacrifice and suffering of the war, seemed appropriate... Its significancé is only
less than, that of -Christmas and its
meaning will grow fuller and deeper
with the. passing. of years. .They died
in the lusty vigor of manhood. They
shall always be what they were—immortal in their vouth.

Following Capt. Bell’s address, President Mackenzie read the long list of
honored dead and simply and earnestly
expressed Dalhousie’s sympathy.

The Last Post was sounded and two
minutes silence was observed at eleven
o'clock. The national anthem com
other days, to associate it with our | pleted the service.

deepest thoughts of the past and as
—G. A. B.

 

The Spirit of the Troops

By Capt. Hugh Bell

 

Editor's Note:—The author wishes to
recognize Dr. MacMechan’s sympathy
and advice in preparing ‘“Fhe Spirit
of the Troops’. The author feels
that without Dr. MacMechan’s aid the
address would have lacked the many
significant qualities which he alone
could give it.

To you, the students of today, the
war is a part of the past. When you
think of those who took part in it, you
think of some middle aged man. But
please remember that fourteen years
ago these men were young men.

Those in whose honour this service
is held are young students. When [|
think of them, I think of the boy who
played full back for the first team and
a few months later was killed at Ypres.

Of the full back on the second team,
who was killed at Courcelette.

Of the boy who sat beside me in
Archie’s English and was killed somewhere at the Somme.

Of the boy who was editor of the
Gazette and who started Dalhousie
nights at the rink, who died last Thursday.

And so on, boys.

Young boys, at, or just our of college.

There was something about these
boys as a class which made them
different from all others.

Let me tell you some things about
them.

It was not chance who was killed
and who was not.

From a trench raid to a big battle,
it took a clever and a quick brain to
gain a success.

I

The law of probabilities is merciless.

The greater the number of risks ta ;
the greater the loss of life.

The fight big or small must be successful regardless of cost.

Thus the ablest were always chosen
for the work.

Therefore among the ablest was the
greatest loss of life.

All their characteristics
this, namely, such as to
more likely to get killed.

like
them

were
make

For instance:

They were natural leaders.

After the battle of Sanctuary Wood,
the R. C. R. was relieved by the 28th.
The R. C. R. was to leave the frontline trenches as soon as relieved and go
back to Ypres. Just as they were
starting back the Germans began a
bombardment. It was impossible to
move until this was over. It was then
daylight. The communication trenches
were levelled. There was no way of
getting back except across the open, and

we were within thirty yards of the
Germans. Yet get the men back we
must. At first they would not move;

orders, threats, entreaties, were of no
use. While I was vainly arguing and
ordering there went up a shout, ‘Look
at Mr. Dickson’’! What I saw took my
breath away. This young officer, a
good runner at school, had gone to the
point nearest the German lines, climbed
up to the raised Menin Road, and was
sprinting past the company. With a
shout the men were after him, and in a
few minutes they had sprinted safely
to the protection of the trenches in the

(Continued on page 3)

  
  
   
   
 
     
  
    
     
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
  
     
 

      

Rate: $1.00 per year

| : This Was a Man

5 > +
a 5 \

The Editor wishes to criticize something that appeared in
last week’s Gazette; namely the heading: ‘‘We have paid in full.”
The Editor on hearing of the passing of the Hon. J, F. Cahan
immediately realized how flagrant that heading was.... “We have
not paid in full. We are still paying. As long as the memories
_ of man will recall the Tragedies of 1914-1918 we will continue to

 

if
: +

—.

  

   

F
Bee Unfortunately not everyone knew Captain Cahan, but all
_ who knew him are sincere in their grief and anxious in their effort
to make known the heroic qualities he possessed. We print in this
issue “In Memoriam’’—a tribute from a comrade; and one from
the twenty-five Yarmouth students attending Dalhousie. These
students have asked to have printed their t ibute “to a friend, our
fellow townsman and a man very dear to us.” Their letter is touch
Fal wh
iat

* i‘. _
°

 

ae:

 
 
 
 

_ ing in its sincere simplicity.

Often one hears complaints about the injustice of the fates,
from the lips of those who are troubled merely with fears of what
- may happen; from the lips of those who exaggerate their petty little
woes, out of self-pity; from the lips of those who through their
_ innate weaknesses are unable to realize their dreams. Surely these
are living tragedies. We have become accustomed to the school

through their numbers..... |

___ But of the rare school—the type that can live through the most
excruciating pains; that can survive an infinity of physical anguish
and come through with a heart of gold, with a pleasant smile and
a twinkle in the eve, of that school was the Honourable John Flint
Cahan, Captain.

og ba _. His spirit is a challenge to all cynics. His will power is ample
Goes of the superiority of mind over matter. His life stands out
an index to the heights to which man may attain.

b ee _ Nationality and Theorists —

a
ah
7 } ° «

. :
_ Many and varied have been the plans of the great minds of the
centuries, to outlaw war. Now comes the unique and startling
vO eee et the invaded masses join the invaders,—‘‘put them_ selves under the government of the attackers,” as the author of
_ “War and Memorial Service,” has so aptly worded it.

  
 

_ One wonders whether the same author would put forward the
following theory as one calculated to avoid the criminal appropriation of the property of others: “just leave your doors wide open,
your money in your windows, thieves will see that you are a jolly
good fellow, and becoming overwhelmingly ashamed of themselves,
will blush and turn away causing harm to none.”’

‘The Congress of Vienna through the lack of far-signtedness
on the part of those assembled began the process of beating the
ploughshares of the people into swords and the pruning hooks into
spears. How? The Congress of Vienna overlooked precisely the

_ same forces that were overlooked by the author of ‘‘War and Memorial Services,’ namely Nationality and Democracy. These twin
principles of the French Revolution have been and are being more

_ and more cherished by every country, and if that galaxy of gold and

. lace and titled dignitaries that gathered at Vienna in 1814 had
begun their work by a sincere and frank recognition of those principles, they would have been guided along proper channels in their
territorial settlements. They were not guided by them. The
Congress of Vienna like ‘‘our new theorist’, was obsessed with ideas
absolutely at variance with the hard cold facts of the century.
History has proven this. Common Sense could have suggested
that if you place 2 or 3 highly expansive and explosive chemicals
in a glass beaker which is stopped up—with no safety-valves—
Lense” ae explosion is bound to shatter the glass’ bounds of the beaker.
| This is in effect what Vienna 1814 did; the result was the 1914
explosion which shattered all the Viennese boundaries. An explosion which proved very decisively that each chemical must have
its own beaker: each nation have its own bounds, with no interference by another.
ve The point is this: There was an incompatibility between the
spirit of Vienna and the rising spirit of Nationalism, which was
| ae awakening all ples to a consciousness which stirred the blood,
‘motivated admirable deeds of valour, promoted popular education,
____ stimulated art and literature and gave the people something to
jive for. It was a living, pulsating and therefore necessary force in
the life of any people. But because of the near-sightedness of Vienna this led not forward to twentieth century internationalism to

é

Pee

a confederation of all the free nations of the world but rather to the
result of 1914.
mat _ Any plan for world peace which disregards the force of nation____ alism is impractical and will not work, even though the so-called
advanced minds do turn up their noses at so mundane and lowly a

consideration.
_-——s«*#President Wilson looked upon the unquestionable right of

 
 
 
       
  
 
 
    

ori _ national self determination in territorial, economic and _ political
spheres,’ as one of the “issues of the great war.” It is generally
recognized by diplomatists and statesmen that the only hope of a
__ just and lasting peace lies in the provision of some satisfactory work+ able ompromise or adjustment between the acceptance of the
oe _ principl 2 of national AC Aterhination and the attainment of a
stable world organization. __
eae heli a ‘War and Memorial Services” has dreams

ethaps the author of “War at
us Land, of enchantment, of fairy princesses.
ore of home and loved ones.

,

Certainly he

77

lim Cives Universitatis

 
  
 
  
      
     

 

P ; (Reprinted from Dal Gazette)
ma% We are not dead if you still love us here:
Sport Editor Hence went we forth, and here our
PAUL DOYLE journey ends
In the green campus tHat we held’ so
dear,
} These gray familiar walls, and student
Assistant Business Manager friends. é
pte g R. A. DONAHOE
ak eae ae We pave Pa youth that Youth might
‘ z Le SS Repor rter eae) tae le : appy e, ire
e SAS GEORGE WHITELEY ~ _ «| We gave our hopes that Hope might
hate = Se M. | VYt Ree or [Kitten still remain, |
se FN ia elas ela, aati ~- | We gave our lives for Honor so that she
eid Business ,Manager 4 Might proudly walk and all unsullied
‘+ .§.W. ARCHIBALD | ~ , reign.
5 Rosebank Ave. ! Phone L 2291

Our days were few, our lives so small a
thing

For Death to garner and to toss away:

We hardly seem worth your remember
i
Yet we would ever in your memory stay.

We would stay here. O! shut us not

away
With our poor bodies vanished as the

ew :

At morn. O let us share your work
and play,

For this, this was the only world we
knew.

Canora, Dal '26:

To a Friend

Some ek when the darkest shadowal
On every nook of this deserted hall;
When the faint moonlight, shimmering
through the pane,
Brings back to life forsaken dreams
again ,—

 

Will not this silent floor once more
repeat

The music of your steps, and silver feet,

And the dim walls that so unyielding

stand

Yearn for the touch of someone’s lovely
hand,

And dream they see a winsome. form

| they knew

Brush ay past in gown of mist and

_ blue.

—F. M. B.

   

JOHN FLINT CAHAN

SOME MEMORIES

 

Anyone who has read the city newspapers since last Friday knows the, outward facts of ‘‘Jack’’ Cahan's. life.

| What is of importance for Dalhousians

is to: know what manner of man we have
lost.

The recollections of his Old Teacher
go“back to the time when Jack was at
school beforé he went to college at all.
In the old days, when bathers used to
have a dip at Green Bank before treakfast; men and boys together, Jack
Cahan was to be found in their ‘ranks, !
a tall, straight, fair-skinned youngster
with red hair and clear blue eyes. Later,
when he came to college it was a private /
joke between him and his professor that
they had been boys together. n

In those days, Dalhousie had a school
of Civil Engineering. Jack Cahan’ took
his degree in course. At college he was
a lively lad, a leader in college pranks, |
and student activities, the kind of lad
who makes friends rapidly, and retains
them.

After college days he went west with
the tide of young life surging into~
the prairies, outside the pen of the’

‘continued.

 

   

November 6, 1928.
The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:—I was glad to learn by the
editorial reply in my letter of October
23rd that my discovery was like Mr.
Pickwick’s antiquarian one and that
the opinion of scepticism was as
non-existent, in the mind of the editorial
writer, as Sairey Gamp’s ‘““Mrs Harris’
The disavowal of any such intention
serves the purpose of my letter, for
“actus non facit reum nisi mens sit
rea’. The fact remains, however, that
such a letter was necessary since, admittedly, there was danger of the
editorial being misunderstood.

Further, in extenuation of the error
of mistaking ‘‘Their’’. for “The, I
would submit that in reading editorials
I am prone to give attention and thought
rather to their matter than their captions, a practice which seems to have
yeen peculiarily unfortunate in this
instance.

Yours truly,

Broce Bes

 

Truth In I]lusion

Beauty can seem
The tr of a dream,
That fades away

In the light of day.

 

Modernity

Is taunting me:
“Dreamer, awake!

And for the sake

Of truth and light
Leave your sweet night.”

But I reply:
“Pardon me, I
Prefer to dream;

I see a gleam,

In my dreamland,
Of truth more true
Than ever you
Will understand.”’

—Don Murray.

this was not the worst. For years he
was never free from acute pain for more
than a few minutes at a time. For
years he never knew natura! sleep.
There was some sort of hope that if he
only endured long enough, he might
recover the use of his limbs. Then that
fallacious hope died, and his martyrdom

At last, an operation, not by a great
and famous specialist, but by a Nova
Scotian practitioner, a Dalhousie graduate in Medicine freed him from pain,
though not from helplessness. The
release was as from death to life. Only
those of the inner circle can understand
the full meaning of the blessed change.

All his old ardor for life, for a normal
man's life blazed up afresh. Study,
reading, intercourse with friends, sport,
service to the state, old hopes, ambitions
and plans where his once more; and in
his allotted time he made the most
of them. His entrance upon public
life may be dated from his address at
the unveiling of the War Memorial
in Yarmouth in 1923. That address
was quoted and noted throughout the

 

GAZETTE

college. One heard distantly ‘of his‘ Dominion. Two years later, he stood
living in various places, of his assistin@’*fér the country and was elected for the
Walter Murray in building the! Wniv-|local house. For three years, he had
ersity of Saskatchewan and of his mar- his wish: he fulfilled his chief desire;
riage with a Dalhousie girl, acéording he gave his native province the best of

what mav be almost called an established
custom.

Then, the War came. Fi

‘“‘Tack’’ did not wait to be drafted.
He had to wait for the bebe attendu.:
Then he joined up, and got to the front
with the Pioneers. As one national
calamity followed swiftly after another, |
and each ‘“‘victory’’ was submerged in,
the endless lists of killed and wounded, |
individuals were lost sight of.
ember 15th, the Canadians took. Cour- !
cellette. Their bands played the, bat-!
talions into action. It was a “glorious
victory;”’ but many Halifax boys fell,
Jack Stairs and Carson were ,among
the dead.
hit in the spine by a fragment of German
shell. As he lay helpless in his own
blood, in fearful pain, he fought off death
by thinking of the young wife and
children in far off Canada. He did not
die then.

The first to see him, four or five hours
after he was hit, was a Dalhousian, Dr.
Alan Currie, who also attended him,
here in Halifax in his last illness. Surgical science and his own iron will
pulled him through the first »shock
and suffering. Then came _ years of
martyrdom.

Money and modern surgery can do
much, and both were used freely in
what was fondly hoped would be_a cure.
The best skill of the experts, ali the
resources of the specialists were in vain,
He who was a model of manly strength
and vigor was helpless, a cripplé! But

IT IS BETTFR TO HAVE LOVED

 

Editor's Note—The notice below is
reprinted for several reasons. It suggests
a Junior-Senior not DANCE . but
DEBATE. 44

But then the subject itself is so full
of meaning that the philosophers of our
day may be tempted to drop a few peails.

NOTICE re

The Junior-Senior Debate will take
pee tomorrow, Nov.
ime 8.00 p.m. in the Munro’ Room

 

On Sept- ;

Toby Jones was smashed by | haps the latest are the brightest,
a machine gun, and Jack Cahan was! welcomed to the room in the hospital

   

‘at a meeting of ‘‘Arts and Science”.

10th,’/»1921. |.

himself in faithful, honourable service

The last election killed him.

To point the moral, to labor the lessons of such a life seem almost impertinent. Such conquest of self, and
helplessness and pain puts us who are
strong and well to shame. Jack Cahan |
belongs to that gallant band of invalids
whose unbroken will and high courage
enable them to wrest vietory out of |

defeat. They fight on, when the sword

is broken in their hands: they fight |}

with the scabbord if the broken sword !
is wrested from their grasp. |

His Old Professor has many bright
and cheering memories of him. Perbeing

 

with the old smiling courtesy, and
a last message, when neither of them
knew it was to be the last. Two colleagues were in the Old Professors’
house on college business. Both spoke
highly of Jack Cahan’s character and
his accomplishment during his three
years of office; and the Old Professor
passed on the well merited praise. This
was Jack Cahan’s acknowledgement :—

‘‘When one receives a letter such as
came from you to-day, one should be
forewarned so as not to show disturbance. To me life has nothing sweeter
than the friendship and respect of those
who have always known me.

I confess to you that defeat is not
pleasant, but ——— was in error in saying
it was my ‘Waterloo.’ My plans are
nét made but will come and see you
soon’’.

Subject ‘Resolved it is better to have
loved and lost than never to have loved
at all.”

NOTICE!

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO
STUDENTS

SUITS & OVERCOATS
CONDONS

MEN'S STORE

 

Dear Editor;
Perhaps I should say

“Dear Ben.”

Dear Ben;—1! have just been looking
through the Liverpool equivalent of the
“Gazette’’, and I see that the editor has
been loopy enough to publish the
ravings of a gentleman who is evidently
under the impression that he discovered
Finland for the first time last summer.
Hoping you are the same I shall hold
your readers spellbound with an account
of my exploits in Heligoland, where I
spent most of last summer.

The country is surpassingly beautiful.
First we went north-east through thickly wooded and be-laked country to the
Russian border; then in turn, we spent
several days at the Imatra falls. acknowledged the finest in Europe; at
Punkarhartu, famous for miraculous
sun-effects seen on the water through
the pine woods; at Jyvaskyla, cruising
up lake Saima; and yachting, surfbathing, water-picnicing, dancing, and
sight-seeing at Naantall.

”

KEY

German Local
Name Translation Translation
Russia Prussia Guysborough
Imatra Blankenese Niagra

Punkarhartu North Sea Water St. of a
Saturday night
Ecum Secum
Hamburg Alster The Arm by
moonshine
Africaville

Ivvaskyla Heligoland
Saima
Naantali Bremen

Have you guessed the truth? The
paragraph is the product of the ingenuity of our Finnish traveller. (I
restrain the desire to make a pun).
[| have given you the German and the
Haligonian translations—the latter in
case you should traveltoa very far countryand wish to use this adjustable story
for the benefit of the unsuspecting
natives there. Now isn’t that just too
sweet of me?

And now that you know all about
Heligoland and Germany in general,
and I must not forget to say the approp
riate thing about world peace and
foreign policy, as well as the advantages
of an English education—-now let us

pass on to something else.

This afternoon I listened to a couple
of representatives of the Canadian
Federation of University Students (is
that the right name for the organization
of which Gerry Godsoe is the vy. p.)
debate against the Varsitv here. One
was from Toronto and one from McGill
and they are making a tour of the
English Universities. My final impression was one of considerable satisfaction to know that Dalhousie is an
active unit in the Federation which
made it possible for them to come.
They are more necessary over here
than most people might think.
[t looks like rain.

Yours very sincerely,

F. RONALD HAYES.

P.S, “If ever you can rake together
10 pound, buy a third class return to
Finland (Berlin, Dartmouth) and you'll
not regret it.”’ :

P. S. S.—Kindest regards to friends
and otherwise.

P. S. S. S—The purpose of this
letter, by the way, is to enclose a dollar.
[ imagine I have missed one or two
numbers, but please don’t penalize
me for that. The spirit was willing
but the pocket-book was weak.

P. 5. 5. S. $.—-Love and kisses.

P. S. S. S. S. S.—If you don’t care to
publish this you can retire to more
torrid regions.

I think that is all for the present.

For People Who Care

We keep promises
and Deliver on time.

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
Phone §.3800-3801

_

Commercial & Society
Printers

     

 ———

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

 

- Peter Elliston, who will be remembered as frequenting Dalhousie three years
ago, is now at Cambridge. He spent his
last vacation in~-France. He writes:
‘‘New Ypres is very unlovely, but the
Menin Gate is the most impressive
War memorial I have ever seen. It is
not so much the architecture, but the
thousands upon thousands of names
in every corridor and upon every wall.
It chokes you and makes your blood
run cold... I went out to Hill 62 one
of the: Canadian Memorials. It is all
planted with shrubs, roses and. little
trees, the walks paved with granite,
granite steps and a large block of granite in the centre, saying it was there the
Canadians made a great stand. It was
so still and beautiful the silence only
broken by the singing of birds that it
was difficult to realize the horrors the

place had seen.”’

* * *

Roy Wiles is in the Department of
English of the University of Alberta
and seems contented with his lot.
He teaches two classes of thirty-five
students each. He is also giving radio
concerts on folk music, assisted by Mrs.
Wile.s ;

STUDENTS

Text Books
Note Books

 

Loose Leaf Books

Stationery, Etc.

ee

T. C. Allen & Co.

124 & 126 Granville Street

 

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM

LIMITED

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Youngs Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford. Street
and Bedford

 

DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS

Know where to come
for Footwear

Right down Spring Garden
Road, No. 25,—or the Main
Store 555-559 Barrington St.

Residents,
26 Portland Street

Dartmouth at,

3°Stores

W.L. Tuttle

 

 

 

Also A Complete Musical Service

456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

 

FOR GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT,

Basketball Supplies,
Badminton Outfits,
Dal. Sport Sweaters,

In fact for anything you may need for
| your favorite recreation,

VISIT CUR SPORTING GOODS DEPT.

HALIFAX, N. S.
  
  
 
 
   
 

   
  

 

 

| ee Se ee } 2
ma 2 ses - SSE Niiiiainiaien ae ___DALHOUSIE GAZETTE a ‘ m1 Le Moret ee ad inka Breen ets Page three a
of the Troops|WAR AND MEMORIAL SERVICES| Never Mind! a

  

 

 

 

’

eS oe

BO ew aed
or — (Conti LEC
ae a a in

. may, =

    
 
 
  
         
   
    
     
       
     
  
        
     
   
 
   
 
       
      
       
     
 
      
     
       
     
     
    
     
 

   

   
 

| from Page 1)
Ree at ie

f;

   
 
  

   
 

as © ‘ a ic about the

t was oppressive.

h_ after month, month after

sitting in a dirty hole, waiting

enemy to blow you out of it.

| aypeaay “It all seemed too

he average er state of mind after being.
a week as “fed up” “Sick of it”
ne spirit of the troops had to be

  
 

   

  

- cheerful ones.
It was they whe kept up the spirit of
a hey had the knack of doing and
saying the right thing at the right time.
_ One could give a thousand instances.
_ One time outside of Ypres we were
ing our way down a battered in
C We did not know exactly
eit went. We came suddenly upon
remains of an up-side-down baby
ia Through the mist the curves
of the four wheels just peeping above
the parapet, looked ominous. The
as, ¥ AMON started

  

  

 
 

ms
.

  

  

    

But a soldier called out
a be “Aa-ah that is. nothing but some
__ wheels out of little Willie's head.”
____- There was a laugh and the men kept
on going. ,
The most striking examples of this
ability to cheer men up were in dealing
__ with ‘cases of mental disorder. There
is no agony like mental agony. There
- is no pain equal to the mental pain
suffered when going insane. There 1s
no more difiicult case to handle than the
ae deran - : ig
a Nothing more fatal to the spirit of
the troops, than the so called ‘Shell
shock case”’. }
Many a time during a bombardment
have I seen men go crazy.
, Many a time have | seen a person
__ with sufficient. presence of mind, do or
gay something (usually comical) which
i caused the crazed man to “snap out of
it’ before the insanity got complete
mastery of him.
~~ This desire to cheer up, like many
things, is pictured best by songs which
our boys sang, also in the expressions
__ which they took from the French.
These were foolish songs, but they
_ pictured the prevailing spirit as nothing
- _ else’can: such as:
“Pack all your troubles in your old
Kit bag”.
‘i And the French sayings:
a “Tres Bien’ or three beans as the
; men called it.
= It being a war, there was always the
possibility of being killed. |
’ Naturally this possibility was not
regarded with pleasure. :
ut there was no sentimentality about

  

  
 

  
 

  
  

  

 
 

1 pal

  

  

    

Bde vee

‘Ft - is quite impossible to explain the

ae soldieh's riestab attitude towards death.
or to appreciate it without having known
the boys in the forward area. |

‘The best I can do is to again quote

from one of their songs:

One night I heard a noise from the
‘dark bottom of a shell hole and the
following conversation took place:

“Who's there’?

a | am, Sir” 3

_ What are you doing there?” 5
_ “They've blown my brains out, Sir,
and more than that, if you keep stand
ing up there they will blow yours out

IT examined him, his statement was
correct.

Port on talking to him, he knew
things were over for him. ;

He was perfectly calm about it.

He was dead in a few minutes.

For the Battle of Vimy Ridge  pre
tions were thorough. The Higher

Ee canad, from the data available,
5 such as the frontage of the battle, the
number of troops engaged, the enemy
strength, and past experience, were
"| ps able to calculate with fair accuracy the

Ps

  

‘
a a =

ot

 

number of men that would be killed.
me, Thus, so that the oe 7 gee
: as quickly as. possible we dug the
Bie Oe saber of graves before the
en battle began. :
Se This duty was performed in an
almost jubilent spirit.
ak “Say Bill, don’t you know that is
ae ing to be my little bed, so just you
| ey feaee some fine earth right down there,

}
ae
a

      
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
     
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 

-_——s [ want a.nice soft place to rest my head.”’
_-—”—sO'Y’ wish: I could picture to you the

___ spirit of the men as they went into the
‘trenches or into a battle. |

‘In a well. known musical comedy
there is one time in the entertainment
where the chorus girls all shake their
heads from side to side as they sing
one of their songs.
_ The boys had a parody on this song.

The first time I saw troops going into

the trenches nee on the road from
} Poperinghe to Ypres.
“Phe a in high spirits were bellowing
this parody and swinging their heads
from: side to side in imitiation of the
chorus girls.
‘When marching in to a battle we
often went through the French towns.
_ ‘The inhabitants came out to greet us.
- Were the boys glum, No, not at all.
“Bon jour, Madame”
“Bonne chance, Monsieur”’

a

‘

i if a |
ee

¥
a

i shay
§
~~
a
at 4 :

a
Li

“Ah! Mademoiselle. Voulez-vous, vous
_ promener avec moi ce soir”

— “Oui’’, Monsieur”

And coming out from a battle, only a
few left, their comrades gone.
_ Where they case down?
Certainlynot.

i, hy

  
  
        

 

      
 
 

lw

Ku, "he same madam.

3, : °
- The same mademoiselle
"Ah, Mademoiselle, you see I have
come back to you. —
| n let me give you an actual
of the spirit of the troops.
bringing my company out from
near Albert we saw the

: ah O t food for the day waiting

   
 
   

  

      
         
       
 
        
 

   
 

  

ys *

i.

   
  

‘he boys who did not come back were | sp

      
        
    
      
           
  
      
     
     
          
           
     
     
       
         
       
     
           
         
         
   
     
       
   
   
   
   
         
      
          
     
     
     
         
     
   
       
       
         
         
    
   
        
 
  
       
      
   
    

 

| for us in the field where we were to

t jac. I must explain that food was
ordered some days in advance. Thus
if your numbers were reduced over
night, for the next few days you would
continue to get food for the old and
greater number. .

_ Seeing the teams waiting for us in the
field apostnny put an idea into the
head of one of my men.

He called to me.

“Sir,” How many men did we have
when we went in?”

#165" gg how many have we now, Sir’?
»- “Say boys. Ain't that grand? 165
rations for the 24 of us” |
_ Don’t think I tell that in any flippant
spirit.

“God Forbid.”

. I want to show you that the spirit
of these boys was such that it could not
be killed.

These
feeling.

Just the reverse. E.

They expressed themselves in their
own way.

As a matter of fact they felt very
deeply.
90 eae that to put it in words was
impossible. '

ut the boys felt deeply and their
friendships were intense.

A friend of mine was wounded badly,
but the doctor thought he had turned
the corner and had a chance to recover.
This boy accidently heard that his best
friend had been killed. He did not
make any fuss about it. He just
turned around on his bed and died.
“Greater love hath no man than that
he lay down his life for a friend.”

And these boys were continually
risking their lives for the sake of a
friend.

Before going into a battle they exchanged addresses with those whom they
could trust to write the kind of letters
they wanted written.

Beyond that there was nothing said.

There was one horror which did
haunt them continually and that was the
possibility of being mained.

In the midst of all this mixture of
feelings, there was a desire

The desire to get home.

Consider a favourite song!

“Take me back to dear old Blighty”’.

“Put me on the train for London

Town” or I Want to go Home.

Take me over the sea where Les
Allemond can't get at me.

In France, asks wounded man

“How are you” .

“Fine, I’m going back to Blighty.”

What was one of the first questions the
doctor asked when a wounded man was
brought into casualty clearing station:

“Say doc, is my wound good enough
to get me back to Blighty?”’

However, no sooner were these boys
better than they got restless and
wanted to be on the move.

No sooner were they with the reserve
battalion in England, than they wanted
to be back with their comrades in the
front line.

There were all kinds of men, but
remember I am speaking of those who
did not come back.

There were splendid boys in Canada,
In England, at the base in France.
But the boys in forward area:

They were different.

And while the war lasted, these boys
were not contented anywhere except
with the front line troops.

There was however, one great longing
which completely eclipsed all else:

It was a longing for the end of the
war.

At the top of the spire of the Albert
Cathedral was a statue of the Virgin
and her child.

The spire had been hit by a shell and
the statue was leaning over.

A legend arose that the war would
not end until this statue was brought
down. Many and many a time my
men said: ‘‘Sir, isn't there some way we
can get that statue down?”

Of course this was said in jest. But
it showed what was uppermost in the
men’s minds. Will the war ever be
over?

A great craving for the end and
peace.

Again it is a foolish song that expresses
this longing. Nie

‘Apres le guerre fini.”

‘Anglais soldat parti”.

Who were these friends who longed
for the end of the war and never saw it?

They were the best boys that God
ever made.

IN MEMORIAM

boys were not callous or without

—_———o———_—_
FIRE!

—

The bell rang loud and long. Through
the corridor and down the iron steps
rushed the terrified maidens. Each
captain hurriedly checked over her
charges and then quickly followed
them to the main hall, there the roll
was cailed.

“Margaret Mackie.”

“Yes, sir—er—yes, Miss Lowe.’

‘*Mildred Grant.”

Silence.

‘Mildred Grant!!”

Silence.

“Fire Captain Alice Nelson, where is
Tilly?”

Like a banshie wail came the answer,

“T don’t know, Miss Lowe!l”’

“Heavens! by this time she is probably burned to a_ blister. Quick,
someone call the Salvation Army
they are always saving someone!

Terror reflected itself on the faces of
the girls. Just imagine Tilly turned to
a Oblsster! Probably she had _ been
caught between the devil and the
deep blue sea or whatever people are
caught between in fires. Just when the
excitement became greatest Peg shouted
that Tilly was out to lunch at the Lord
Nelcon! Oh well, who cared anyway—
it was only a practice fire-drill.

Moral—Better lunch at the Lord

| Nelson than a fire at the Hall.

 

Heaven, when your term has elapsed.

should you experience it?’ I

“Well, take the Christian Religion.
It's fundamental doctrine is that the
things of thiM life are ephemeral,

shallow, of little real value or importWhat is really worth while is
Life on this earth

ance.
the life after death.
is a mere passing incident in existence—
we are locked in a dark room as punishment for disobedience; if we behave,
we will be let out into the sunlight
after a while. Your God is a just,
amicable one, so if you behave decently,
he will let you out into the sunlight of

That is your belief, is it not? Yet the
strange anomaly is that.of all religions,
the. Christians, more than any others
fear death and cling to life with an
absolute frenzy. To a christian there
is nothing more pathetic, eee
more pitiful than to see a man ‘cut off
in the prime of life’."’

have rather

“T think you over
estimated this,”’ interrupted the Can-}

adian, “It is only the more ignorant
who have such a horror of death as all
that.”’

“Ah, my friend,” said the Hindu,
““when your mind has been freed from
its artificial cares, by the alcohol which
you have abolished, you do not feel so
afraid of death—you are more natural.
But in your cold, sober thoughts you
are like the rest. I think I have
observed correctly, for I met with a
grand example of this, a few weeks ago.
It was in connection with the anniversary of the Great War—Armistice Day.
Everywhere were held mourning services which were for the benefit or for
the praise or-or— Just what was their
purpose?”

“Tt is a ‘solemn tribute to those who
have been inspired to lay down their
lives for the ideal of freedom’.”’

“Yes, but what is the purpose of this
commemorating, this tribute?”

“It is their due” replied the Canadian.
‘They sacrificed their lives for us, so
we surely owe them thanks, don’t we?”

‘Surely. But do you really believe
that public praise is of any use or benefit,
any grattfication or pleasure to a person
long since dead and disintegrated? This
is one of your strange inconsistencies.
It is really hero-worship, and takes
this form because you delude yourselves into feeling that they are in some
way in this world and interested in its
doings. You refuse to recognize that
they are dead, just as dead as a carcass
of beef, and entirely done with the
things of this world.”

‘The hero-worship is of course quite
natural. You have a feeling of respect,
a desire to emulate their praiseworthy
actions, just as you feel a respect for
anyone who has, say risked his life to
save another, or any such praiseworthy
deed. It is the natural respect which
one has for the person who is honored
and looked up to by the world in general
and the newspapers in particular. Is
that not really the raison d’etre of these
services?”

“Yes, that is the way we take to show
our respect.”

“Now, this respect, this awe—why

will see the reason if, instead of saying
respect for heroism you say respect for
praiseworthiness. It is just an off
shoot of your own hankering for honor,
for respect, for public recognition and
approval. Exactly like the youngster
gazing in awed admiration at the
circus ‘Strong Man’ and who, unlike
his elders, is frank enough to himself
to say, ‘‘ Gee, I wish I was as Strong as
he is!” But, (this is the most important
aspect of it all) he wishes to be strong
not for the sake of the strength itself,
but because of the deeds he will be able
to do, which will make evervone look
up to and respect him. He wants to
deserve praise and most of all, to get it.
Take any difficult act, let people show
special respect for him who has _ performed it, then, whether it be football
playing, channel swimming or lifesaving, you will find plenty of potential
players, swimmers and lifesavers. All
they need is the opportunity. So it is
with your war heroes. They died fora
praiseworthy cause. You have got the
ball rolling—the more public honor that
is given them the more will each person
respect them. As the thing grows you
will create more and more people who
will more and more respect, will emulate
these deeds: More and more potential
defenders of their country—patriotic
citizens’.

The Canadian seemed to have followed
this rather involved discussion for he
replied, “Yes, patriotism is both the
cause and effect of public tribute to
patriots. Patriotism erects a memorial
and the memorial creates new patriotism—thus grows a mighty nation”’.

“That brings up another point peculiar to Western ideas. Suppose one
country declares war on another... The
attacking armies quickly advance into
the other’s territory. Suppose in one
third of the country, the part first
attzcked, that the inhabitants make no
reMistence, but allow the attacking
armies to pass through, offer to put
themselves under the government of the
attackers provided they do not have to
supply men or money for the purpose of
carrying on the war, and on condition
that they are allowed to maintain and
supplement their police for the protection
protection of individual property from
pillage—an offence punishable by death
in the armies of the civilized countries.
The attackers could go back on their
promises only at the risk of precipitating
internal revolt and guerilla warfare—
that one kind of warfare, which unlike
the ordinary political chess-playing
may be sensible and necessary: each
man is fighting for his own personal
rights, not because his government is
being ousted, or trying to oust another
government. You can’t stop guerilla
warfare until you have either: killed off
every individual or have given them
their rights. There is mighty little fun
in trying to govern a country in that
state especially if you*are carrying on
another war. It is highly probably
that the terms on which the country
surrendered would be adhered to. Sup
ose next that the attackers and the
oyal two thirds of the country fight
for three years, neither gaining decis
   
    

think you}.

Jively until one becomes completely

eyhausted and surrenders. Who
suffered least?

le better, and the coward—has

has charged.

take over the

look

and Lorraine.

_ At this. point the Canadian burst
into laughter:

whenever it is attacked? Why, the

world would be a tangle of South
We should have

American Republics.
have a daily map of the world, like a
daily newspaper.”

“What you say is only superficially
true,’ replied the Hindu. ‘“‘Let the
people of a country refuse to fight and
be willing to consolidate with the
attacking country. The governing body
would perhaps gather an army of
mercenaries. The The Commons would
perhaps refuse them any money. At
any rate, the war would be small. If it
ended quickly and the invaders set up
a reasonable and settled government
littke harm would be done. Perhaps
you think ‘that this changing government would become more and -more
frequent and finally culminate in anarchy. But°do you really think that in
modern Europe, with its international
trade and industrial unions, that this
state of affairs could go on for long?
I rather think that it would settle down
as happened in the slightly parallel case
of old China, in the days before Western
influences ‘had entered. Perhaps, to
use the words which your vividly imaginative writer, Mr. Wells, applied to a
rather different case, perhaps, ‘‘a wartormented world will recognize all these
military gentlemen as the common
enemies of mankind and, as such do
away with them.’ ”

“But my, dear man,’
rather astounded canadian, ‘“The whole
scheme is titterly mad. To begin with,
the student: of most elementary finance
or government can tell you that the
whole country would collapse—industrially, financially and socially. And
besides, how could you ever get, say,
the German people to voluntarily put
themselves under French Government.
It is in the very roots of these people
to dislike and distrust each other. And
what sort of disharmony and chaos would
exist among a people which has no
common bond of love for country.”

Such a blast seemed unanswerable,
et the Hindoo began to reply almost
Aitobartlie other had finished speaking.

“Your first objection, of a financial
and industrial smash is really where,
on the contrary, I see the source of
a stabilizing force. A country in good
financial and industrial condition is
not going} to pieces just because the
legislative..body disintegrates. If the
mass of ordinary social life went on in
the ordWnary way, I expect that a
revolution. in. government would do
less harm, than a fair-sized war. I|
think thatthe bond of business interests can nicely replace that of love for
country. Do you recall, at the beginning of the-Great War, that the German
Labor Party, together with the International Unions, came fairly near
preventing the war by refusing to fight.
But the Imperial government had done
its work well: patriotism triumphed over
common sense—the laborites were branded CGowards, deserters and traitors to
the Fatherland, which after all, they
really were’.

“Did you ever hear that fact stated,
that to love one’s country, you must
hate the other countries? The simplest
psychology’ or logic will tell you so;
and whether or not you must, it is plain
that you do compare other countries
unfavourably with your own”’.

“Patriotism is the keystone of the
whole structure. And I think you
agree with me that love of country
drives its whole elan vital from public
honors paid to individuals, to men who
have excelled in this direction. So,
if the steadily increasing number of
enlightened ones, all over the world,
continue slowly and steadily to damp
the ardour of this political ballyhoo,
this public ‘praise, we shall soon see the
whole maitial system shrink, dwindle
and finally! disintegrate. We shall see
men refusing to improverish themselves and’ to kill each other merely
because ore political body wants to
steal the job of another. Then, when
these parties find their positions rather
precautious, they will establish a system
of ethics and adhere to it, as did international €®Ommerce, in the days long
gone by. ‘Then your Peace Treaties and
League of Nations, instead of being
scraps of paper and mere names, will
rule the world. Then we may see a
world organized on industry, where it
will be recognized that the good of all
is the good of each; when instead of
crying

‘We will not rest—if ye forget; the
poet will sing,

‘They died that we should live, but
thena— |

We should have lived on, anyway!’ ”’

By this’time, my companion and I
had finished our fifth bottle of ale
and we felt more inclined to merrymaking than to moralizing.

‘‘Let’s,get out of here, before that
heathen converts us to some new
religion,’’ said my friend, ‘‘Come on.”

And thus we departed, feeling that

such matters as war and peace were far | f

beneath us.
_ LAURENCE COFFEY

eae seemaetrene —

“Surely you aren't
advocating that a country surrender

has
The vanquished is coma exhausted, the victor is aaly a
htt ost

nothing, except the high officials who
have lost their jobs. The government
‘ If a South American
allies himself with foreign troops to
overnment of his Reublic, that would be a foreign invasion.
But if he gathers an army of mercenaries
within the Republic, it is merely a
revolution, he is a “‘liberator” and then
at that piece of France which
Germany obtained by conquest—Alsace
After being under Germen government for fifty years, now
that they, are reunited with France,
the only thing which keeps them there
(the absurdity of it all!) is that they
can't agree on whether to form a separate republic or to return to Germany!”’

interjected the] |

 

FYou Want

Y.M. A. C. BLDG. HALIFAX, N. &S.

—

i
|
¥

 

Small Musical  Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

 

Halifax Chronicle

AND
The
Halifax Daily Star

NEWSY!
ACCURATE!
DEPENDABLE!

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 2) cents extra,

     

ELL
SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN

Se

  

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers & Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D.
Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world.

The Roserp

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac, 1934

 

 

OurHigh Quality Standard |

makes our Law Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS |

FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

p24
MADE TO-MEASURE

THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

| lip Top Tailors |

 

a gg te —

SMOKE

   

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS

1
4

  
     
   
   

   

ge A YE eg

 
 
  
  

A

 

* H »o
4 SP) it
: *
1 Viet
c

&

Wy aM 4 7
a Bh gs

       
        

2 PS}
LORD NELSON HOTEL |

23 SPRING GARDEN RD,
CENTRAL—The. nearest Bar- ||
ber Shop to the College. ,
SERVICE— Always experienced
barbers at your service.” |
Special Bobbing Parlors jf

For Ladies at

A. PUBLICOVER
ean eee den Road =

MacDONALD: @
FORSYTHE
College Mens’ Overcoats
$15. to $30.

19 Gottingen St.’ *
           
         
     
       
 

 

  
   

Phone L 1421

 

     

Visit Qur Accessory |
Shop

|Our New Department |
1, on; She: Greynd
Floor.

    
   
     

  

 
  
   

    

   

 

THE SONG SHOP vp.
for ANYTHING in

_ MUSIC
22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, : : Canada

AMMA LY,
HUBLEY’S.

DRY CLEANING, DYING

AND PRESSING: i
VALET

SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT
GIVEN TO DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS

Tickets ~- $2.00. Less Discount

Phene $_ 109

52 Sackville Street,

   

Shev. Touring
$35.00 :

In good condition

Atlantic Motor Sales

/

|

Dondonald Streét nh:

 

 

     
       
   
   
    
       
    
           
    

  

BUTTONS ON.
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED
That's the’ service you get

free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

  

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or “Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Ti-:kets

_ for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S.

Barrington St:, Halifax, N. S.

  

Sack 428 _. Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING |

CLEANING -» PRESSING

”

   

 

 

ee - a
    

‘ 455C |
Li

‘
f ri.
a:

A |
1 A:
ine
i er
i yt Pi

Fe
€;
Br

ma
3
alte.

_by the Students Council.

of a favorite team”.

- The first teamman however has some-|P

Hi

Ls fe Next week in the columns of the Gaz- inter-faculty football team. At the
| __ beginning of the season two close follow
.
1

and at the conclusion of the league to

  

7 Hs
=) #
ae

may earn his ‘‘D”. Before entering a

‘tournament will be stage
_ winners making the team.

HOCKEY STAR
been named for a regular

 

n

   

    

  
 

- to the olverine forward line.

ALL-STAR TEAM

tte we hope to announce an all star

‘

ers of the game were asked by the interfaculty manager to Watch the teams

ck a team. This practice will
ollowed in every league this year.
The Gazette will also print any other
“all-star” selections’ received.

_--s BADMINGTON

- Badmington is going great in the gym
this year and officials of the club are
planning on entering teams in outside

tournaments and in this way a student

team in an outside competition, a
with the

“BIG JIM” IN BOXING TOURN
 

For the first time in history, Dalhousie
will have an entrant in a Maritime
boxing tournament. “Big Jim” McLeod, who has been showing fine form
in workouts is off for Glace Bay where
he is expected to clean up in the lightheavy division. McLeod is being sent

WANDERERS, 1928 CHAMPS

Well, our so-called heriditary enemies,
the Wanderers are champions of the
Halifax City League and will in all
probability cop the Maritime championship as Dal did last year. They
deserved to win as they played fine
rugby all during the season and did
not any of the so called ‘‘off-days”’.
The term ‘‘off-days’’ has many meanings
but the best definition heard so far 1s
“A newspaper's excuse for the defeat
The Wanderers
need no excuses for their season's
record, having defeated Dalhousie twice,
the Services twice and Acadia once.
Congratulations to Captain Don McInnes and his fourteen Redmen. May
they add a few more scalps to their
belts before they hang up their shoes.

- FOOTBALL RECORD

_ The record of the Dal intermediates
this year will likely hold for some years
to come. The lot of a second team
player is a hard one and Captain Fred
ennings and his men deserve more
than they are getting. A second team
yer must. work all fall without any
ye of reward other than a slim chance
of getting a try-out in a senior game.

 

h

thing to play for. Heissure to get at least
one long trip per year and perhaps two
or more whether the team wins or
loses. But the second string men win
or lose must stay at home. This year,
as a result of Acadia’s entrance into
the City League, they are due for a
trip to Wolfville. Perhaps they will
get a chance to play-off for provincial
honors. PERHAPS.

UNFORTUNATE FROSH

| Three carloads of our Freshmen football. players left the Studley gym last
week for Wolfville to engage in combat
with the Acadia Freshies. One car
arrived at two.o'clock in the afternoon,
the second drew up to the Wolfville

 

 

 

   
 

   
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
    
 
  

| post office two hours later while the

third. batch of the enterprising first
* Aa students pulled into the village at
ive o'clock. Owing to the mantle of
darkness which shrouded the campus
the game was called off and despite

1€}of the earnest pleas of their valley

-breathern to stay over and play, the
aoe before breakfast our enterprising
reshies turned about and started on the

sixty mile trek hack to Studley, arriving

here about mid-night. Acadia track
and field stars defeated our band of
first year men here in a track meet a
couple of weeks ago and it's too had
that Dal couldn’t even the score by
taking the annual football game.

INTERFACULTY SPORT

So far this season inter-faculty sport
has been going over big at Dal and
1928-29 promises to be a banner year.
Which is as it should be. The ordinary
student is getting some benefit from the
seven iron men he pays into the treasury of the ‘Students Council. Two
new leagues got underway last week
and are both proving to be popular.
The Girls Interclass league has five
teams in its circuit while the men’s
inter-faculty ‘soft-ball league is comprised of ten teams. Last year there
was some talk of an inter-class basketball league for men in which first ,»second
or inter-faculty players would be barred.
A league like this would give the many
students who do not know basketball
from ground hockey’a chance to get a
little bit of fun and exercise. Tom
Parker, manager of interfaculty sport,
and . E. Stirling, athletic director,
are both working hard to get such

little co-operation from the student
body for whose benefit it is being done.

WE REFEREES

The services of two well known Dal
football players are much in demand
as rugby referees. “‘Bunker’’ Murphy
has handled several high school playoff games during the past month and
still survives which is a big compliment
to his power as an arbriter. Fred
Jennings captain of the intermediates
has also broken into the refereeing end
of the game and according to reports
made a fine job with the whistle at the
St. Mary’s College—Pictou Academy
game at Truro last Saturday. ‘“‘Bunker’? handled the Sydney—Colchester
Academy game on the same day at the
same field. Both refs come from St.
John but whether that is a handicap
or an advantage is not for us to say.

BASKETBALL PRACTICE
Attention is called to a basketball

form which appears on this. page.
Practice for the team will be held at

noon hour on every Tuesday and
Thursday and will continue until
Xmas. If you think you have the

slightest chance of making either the
first or second team come out to the
practice. The form is merely for the
urpose of giving Manager George
MacIntosh a line on whose who and
how to arrange the candidates for
practice. So fill it in or make out a
form yourself and co-operate with the
team manager.

WRESTLING

Oscar Rogal, who is instructing the
newly formed wrestling class, _ reports that his charges are coming
along in fine shape. During the coming winter it is planned to hold meets
with the mat artists from Acadia and
other universities. The sport is a
big competition among many American universities and promises to go
over big in Maritime intercollegiate
circles.

 

NEW FRENCH FARCE

Florence Vidor is again given the
opportunity to display her talents as

 

-a comedienne in her latest Paramount

starring vehicle, ‘“The Magnificent Flirt”’
a French farce, which will show at the
Majestic on Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday.

Miss Vidor plays the role of a flirtatious woman of wealth who gets the
attention of a count, the uncle of the
boy who loves her daughter. The
boy asks Miss Vidor for the girl’s hand
and she consents. He is so happy
‘that he kisses Miss Vidor. This kiss
s seen by the count who refuses to
allow the boy to marry her daughter
asa result. The uncle does not
know that it was his own nephew he
saw kissing Miss Vidor.

‘The boy defends her and the count
decided to put the ‘“‘magnificent flirt’’
to a test. Miss Vidor vindicates herself in a humorous manner.

FOR MED STUDENTS ONLY

Fair Maid: “Oh, sir, what kind of an
officer are you?”

Officer: ‘I'm a naval surgeon.”

Fair Maid: “Goodness, how you
doctors do specialize.”’

 

rcp

*

MARY ASTOR IN
FIRST ROLE

After signing a long-term contract
to play leading roles in Fox Films,
Mary Astor, who won her highest screen
distinction by her work in ‘Dressed to
Kill,” has been assigned the leading
feminine role in ‘‘Dry Martini,” John
Thomas’ story of the Paris boulevards.

Incidentally, ‘“‘Dry Martini" is the

first directorial assignment for Fox
Films of the brilliant young director,
Harry D’Arrast, a Frenchman who
knows his Paris, its people and _ its

boulevards most intimately.
Albert Gran

plays the part of
“Quimby,” about which the various
incidents revolve, portraying the role
of a former New Yorker estranged from
his wife, and with a daughter just

approaching womanhood.
The featured

east includes such
well known and highly capable players
as Sally Eilers, Jocelyn lee, former
Ziegfeld Follies beauty; Matt Moore,
Hugh Trevor, Albert Conti and Tom

Ricketts.

Dry Martini, comes to the Orpheus
Theatre Nov. 19, 20 and 21.

BASKETBALL FORM

,
NAME .
AAV ED 2 nn ene mean nn an nee nant rete eee mame anne wane onan eae nent ene hn ee bane eune eee
; :

roy

 
  
  
  
 
 
   

i
¥

i,

M

Has

i) WiRat position do: you wistt to play? oi

Gin es a .

| : ie r *
)

 

Oe AA SO RRR e RAR eee RARE Rn Ree eee ew Rew eke Reem eee

Vv hin; to turn out for the senior and intermediate basketball
the form and leave it in a Gazette box, care of the Sport

re MacIntosh, manager of the basketball team.

.

| faculty Sport and Vice-President of
. A.

league going and all they need is a] defeat at Glace Bay on Thanksgiving

___ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

- MANAGER

| cas

Thursday-Friday-Saturday

LON
CHANEY

a in
“Laugh, Clown, Laugh”
Next
Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday
CHARLES
‘Bud dy’’

ROGERS
HERO OF ‘‘WINGS”’

in
“VARSITY”

Filmed at Princeton

 

 

       
    
       
   
    
 

 

Christmas Cards

THE ROSS PRINT
They Are Wonderful

buy at home

 

TOM PARKER, Manager of Inter
* 4 .

Orders filled and delivered within
24 hours if desired.

The RossPrint Ltd

95 Argyle St. Phone Sack 1958

CALEDONIAS WIN

TIGERS GET WET
IN CAPE BRETON

to

 

 

 

 

 

Halifax Ladie’s College |

and

Halifax Conservatory
of Music

Upper and Lower School
Teachers’ Certificates in Art
Household Science
Music |
Tel. S 224

Dalhousie Tigers bowed down
day when the Caledonia rugby players
aided by the elements took a three to
nothing victory. The victory of the
Cape Bretoners means little however
as the game was called soon after the
start of the second half on account
of the heavy downpour of rain that
turned the field into a quagmire.

The Dal plavers had everything but
an edge in the scoring and looked down
good to even that up but the referee
noticing the dampness of both plavers
and field wisely blew his whistle for the
cessation of hostilities.

The local players arrived back home
Tuesday morning and apart from the
game had a wonderful week-end trip.
Last year when they went to the coal
bearing island they were stranded at
Antigonish for a day. while this time a
rain storm stopped what promised to be
a hard struggle. However, Dr. Todds
almanac promises that next Thanksgiving will have fair weather so why
WOITy.

The team lined up against Caledonia
as follows: Full back, MacDonald,
Quarters, Hewat, Wickwire, H. Sutherland, Mel.eod,. Halves, Davison, A.
Sutherland, V.Maxwell,Forwards, Townsend, McLeod, Woolner, Campbell,
Irving, C. Townsend, Smith.

 

 

Suppose tomorrow were Christmas,
a few short hours and one thousand and one things to do! Gifts
to buy—entertainments to arrange. Then everyone would
wish they had done their Christmas shopping early. Remember
the early shopper gets the p ck
of stocks and salespeople are
much more cheerful

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

 

| FROM T
WINNERS "Rom THE

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

 

 

 

DAL TEAM IN
INTER-U SHOOT

SHIREFF HALL
SHARP-SHOOTER

the Dathousie| CRAGG BROS., CO.,

 

On Saturday _ last
Rifle Team shot for the Governor Limited
General's Inter-university Trophy at

Hardware and Sporting Goods

the Bedford Rifle Range. Conditions HALIFAX, N. S.

were good the time of year, there
being practically no wind at 200 or 500
yards and only a gentle breeze at 600
yards. The single unfavourable factor
was a slight fog at 600 vards.

The scoring was good and higher
than in any previous year. Owing to
difficulty in arranging a practice to
suit the class hours of all students, several
had to line their sights up for the first
time at the match. On the 200 yd.
mound John Andrews of Kings, put on a
possible. Miss Langstroth, shooting
a strange rifle, suffered the common
misfortune among marksmen of directing her first shot, a bull, at the wrong
target, thus getting an unofficial 91.

At the 500 and 600 yard ranges the
team steadied down and scoring was
higher. Upon the conclusion of the
match hot coffee and sandwiches were

 

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

| ee er
| G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

 

 

 

served. The scores follow: .
200 500 600 Gauvin & Gentzel
yds. vds.yds.Tot.
:: E. Shaw: .asttesuk 84 160 ee oe
| -B.. Asidrews._...:.... $8 324 2% 198
1,S Wilson........... 34 29° .38408 Photographers
>> Mahon...2.%... 30 SOv Sees
W. E. Bennett............ 29 .31. 29 89
Miss M. Langstroth.. 24 31 31 8&6
P, E.. Sullivan......%.. 23-29 $0.56? &
C.F. Weipley..s...,.2.. 25. 30. 2% 282
14)1| 18 Spring Garden Road
The match was made possible through Phone Sac. 692
the kindness of the Ist Regt. Halifax
Coast Artillery, and through the attendance of Col. H. F. Flowers, Secretary of
the Provincial Rifle Association as
Range Officer. Text Books

Looseleaf Note Books
Special ‘‘Lab’’ Book
Fountain Pens
Eversharp Pencils

———— 9
FIRST ALL COLERGE

The first all-college motion picture
‘Varsity’ made at Princeton university, is the attraction at the Casino
theatre next Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday.

“Old Nassau”’ was selected as the
setting for the first picture to star
Charles (Buddy) Rogers. The story
was written by Wells Root, a graduate
of Yale university in 1922, and Frank
Tuttle, likewise a graduate of Yale
in 1915, directed.

The star is a graduate of the University of Kansas. Five undergraduates,
all members of Princeton's famous
Triangle club, have important roles
in the production. :

Mary Brian and Chester Conklin
have the featured roles.

 

Prompt attention given
Special Orders

Fountain Pen Repair
Specialists

FARRELL’S

New Store
446 Barrington Street

 

=

 

November 16th, 1928

THIS WEEK-Thu-Fri-Sat.

NEXT WEEK-Mon-Tue-Wed.

“ME GANGSTER”
with
JUNE COLLYER
CHARLES FRANCES

COL’S NOVEL OF THE
‘“‘UNDER WORLD”

Bessie — and — Tom
Love — in — Moore

“Anybody Here
See Helly?’’

You'll love it
By all means—See this one

   
   
     
   
    
      

'WELL DRESSED

at a minimum cost !
(Your complete Fall outfit need only cost you $68.15)

 

Every Item bears the well known label

éEatonia

_ Here is a complete list of each
item and what it costs—get your
Fall outfit now!

   
  
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
      

Gaionia Hat $5.00

x Shirt 2.50
- Tie 1.00
| -* Suit 25.00
yi Topcoat 25.00
| ‘s Gloves 1.50
§ Handk’ef .25
Underwear .90
| Ng Wool Socks .75
| “ Shoes 5.00
of Braces 15
| = Garters 50

Making a Total of $68.15

“T. EATON

 

,

 

Ss

ae @
ajestic
MON-TUE-WED.
IN HER LATEST

REPERTORY THEATRE
The Mae Edwards Players

 

FLORENCE VIDOR Present
in “HER
“The COMPANIONATE
Piagnificent MARRIAGE”’
Flirt’’ A MIRTHQUAKE
Also: Snappy Novelty Orchestra
No Playing Now Playing

  

“‘Craig’s Wife’’ ‘‘Her Father’s Sin”’

George F. Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description
—Also—

     

 

We have a good supply of our
distinctive Dalhousie stationery
Neat size crest, die stamped in
yellow and black on high class

 

parchment paper, club size, with
envelopes stamped to match, suitable for ladies or gentlemen.
Sold in bulk only, buy any quantity you require. Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.

16 Spring Garden Road HALIFAX, - N. S.

|
| Faulkner’s Book Store
|

 

 

 

        
       
                
     
   
 
 
    
    

‘* Ask the men that wear them’’

For Young People as
well as older folk

Your Class-Mates Are Wearing

| Roxy’s Clothes

WHY NOT YOU?

Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you

Best Sodas 1
Best Confectionery

154 Granville Street Best Meals

‘ A little out of the way.
But it pays to walk.”’

The Green Lantern

 

“There Go The Ships”

Twelve New

Sasas of the Sea

eee =

 

 

Specialists in College
Apparel
THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

Watch our windows for weekly specials

10% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS

 
