 

DIAMOND
JUBILEE OF
THE OLDEST

a
iit

11H
Ae

i.

COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

 

MLL)

 
  
   

      
    

my at
e¥ ry

   

 

   
 

tu
hey Beat cant)

   
   

ee a a ee 2

Nf
i

a

  
  
 
 
 
  

: ution at Dalhousie University— |

Le — - — - — geese eee renee eS ae

  
     

   

—..

 

 

3 Urge Council Reform

OP ail ea Fe

WITH OUR RE- | IMPORTANCE
[THOURRE-|HONEST EFFORT TO [IMPORTANCE

BANQUET) | TiRASH OUT PROBLEMS) __INsociEty
Students, Grads, OF STUDENT GOV’T. Dr. Clydes Marshall

Faculty, Governors, — Speaks at Soci
: | PRESIDENTS OF GLEE CLUB, D. A. A. cP" eee

Alljoininmerry time|" “SOD ALES, EDITOR AND BUSINESS vtul
SPIRIT DALHOUSIANA MAN. OF GAZETTE ON COUNCIL; PS YCHOLOGICAL

Editor's Note——This is not forced on RANKIN ANSWERS MANY QUESTIONS ASPECTS

an ufsuspecting” public aesauaeeemey —-— tte , .
news item. The reporter gives a few 5% Sar Some Psychological Aspects of Social

; ina are ,| Relations” was the subj f
disconnected reminiscences of the Biol- Weighed in the balance and found | |< ~ My Nestaa ik cee Leo te
ogical Banquet. What Murray Mac- PRESIDED wanting’’—the present system of stud- oe “Rlacchatt a given by Mrs.
Neill said and what Mr. Justice Mellish ent government at Dalhousie under-] 5 CS 2: arshall, Phd., wife of the
Provincial Psychiatrist, before the SocTRY Sea ae
ss

     
 
   

ae
j| Almost without exception |
|], the Year Books of other col- ;
| leges have a publication title.
Some examples are ‘‘The Cherry |
| Tree’? of George Washington
! University, ‘‘TheJotem”’ of
| Univ. of British Columbia,
“The Greystone’’ of the Univ.
of Alberta. Dalhousie is one of
the few colleges whose Year
Book yet lacks a name. The
committee wants your suéggestions. If you can give any
help it would be greatly appreciated. The name must be
one having local associations.
“The Life of the Little College”’
is one suggestion we have received. If you like it comment on it—if it doesn’t appeal
to you Jet us know. The Year
Book is yours. it is up to you to
nem<e it.

      

    
  
 

) ade

‘Geology M

 

er.
as

VITY OVERCOME”
_ CHEMISTRY

  
  
 
   

  

i? :
ie Ry he
A

fe ny

oe ‘ Those who visited the Science Exie Rast hibit at Dalhousie University on November 23, and 24, have undoubtedly
é  . agreed that it was a worthy successor
g in deegn e the great exhibit which took place
re ole a in 1926. : a ‘he
_ —__-& Jarge and popular part ol the
‘a exhibit was held in the Science Building, aie ."s
A At ce. Studley, and attracted a large and will grasp a bit of the spirit Dalhousiana
ss appreciative crowd. that prevailed.

@ ah “ *

me ab dente ALUMNI ACTIVITY] <i 3.0% oct
ge as ' : % bens ‘ ) et
ges Meee ec ee Bt linely.: faci. APPRECIATED ame the’ dawn and 4( iology

c students turned over restlessly in their
ated, as well as startled, with the great beds to sigh with relief: ‘‘No speeches:

explosions which greeted them on] 4, present a fund is being raised by the just read fifty word telegrams. . Gee,

   
    

 

    
   
  
 

 

    

recited and what Stan Mackenzie did went a grilling last Friday night, that] - .
saan: oh well, 2: ; x ane exposed to light the many weaknesses 7 AP Club.
that required strengthening; the many Mrs. | Marshall
antiquities that must give way to
novations; the ‘“‘many dead branches
that should be entirely removed.”
Following the new system of interruptions—the Munro Room at Forrest Hall, echoed and re-echoed with
adjectives or invectives as the principal
speakers were questioned and _ crossquestioned; examined and cross-exam
had a very comprehensive grasp of her subject and
treated it with the delightful simplicity and clarity born only of long
pedogogic experience—she formerly imparted psychology to the feminine
mentalities of Smith’s College—the
largest Woman’s College in the world.
She stressed the importance of the
family as a unit of society. Just as
charity begins at home and gradually

It is written in the hope that those
unfortunate ones who were not there

         
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
      

 

   

i i4ort ae . 7 ; +? “ . » . S

ss entering Room 26; for the sparks from ; : Fae tis : that’s great.’’ And all that day what ined by their opponents and audience} 5 ~ igre é

oe a the Thermit Reaction, as used in weld- ee cie ae enn excitement: no biology lab, consequently a an effort to clear up this vital prob- Sica Lene has
a int , . ; . 7 ‘ j 4 ‘ s: = c “ 59 k Oh ees = x78 , y . ; ¢ > P ; at : Ses « n a er is
"ing: filled the atmosphere for yards) p44. It is planned to. purchase ia| ts of gab.” And "what dress are you Se ay correc CE tenance cb ant perfected by social

that would open the secret wells of
knowledge and wisdom and show the
way towards an Utopian System of
student government.
MacKinnon—We are _ introducing

going.to wear?” ‘‘To tux or not to
tux’’. These were indeed weighty prob- |
lems. And say this is the event of the |
year. And so on till evening and the
Halifax, Hotel.

Halifax Hotel where his Lordship
Mr. Justice Humphrey Mellish indulging in some very enlivening poetry
delighted awaiting world with:
anoneoMPery iad aittte skirt

contact in a greater sense. If we
would realize the vital function of
parent-training we have only to contrast the normal child with a child
tonight a system of interruptions by PeGhATEARY trained. The latter would
the debaters; also to be extended to| 74V© 2° 4 fection for people nor would
the audience. This will further better (Continued on page 3).
debating. There is too much emphasis ee ee

|oveparedonth: bebe a ten spes| DRAMA AND DRAM
-— around with dazzling sparks. Lieut-| i ab He
Pras eo ACRES +, | complete set so that, the Band will be
“2 enaot Governor was | greeted. with completely furnished. The Alumni have

     

“
* Os

  


an explosion. already taken steps. to collect. the
amount and are being met with fine

aes “JOHN'S BEATING HEART” response. The instruments have been
* a spe tacular | exhibit _which ordered and should arrive within a

ae short time. The fund is. not being:
Bae atta ee eae: subscribed. to by members of the

  
       

      
 
 
 
 
  

‘Alumni Association alone, but members
a pe ee ee t oy ~ het
6f the Board yovernors, and others

       
       
 
 

  

 

 
 

g Heart,|- ed are also contributin The ‘Twas fine and short and airy peas aa
roah’s Ser- antereste ane no 8 The skirt it wasn’t very much onsen AGS » | off!
sts for Various Be being sponsored by the Assoe But it showed much of Mary. _ Helen Williams who presided at Sodales The reasons for this debate: Students ATIC CRITICISM
sst for Arsenic, |“ A setin of’ the Executive of the This early poetry showed the ancient lengthy debate don't seem to care what goes on, (apperiments to show the Whvitisti eae held a short time ago.and interest in animals, and therefore had lause) oh leave it to George. They oe
is metals, and many the wheels set in- motion, . — reference to Biology. He then recited don't impress on the Council what they THREE CHEERS

 
 
  
  
 
 
   
    
  

 

further advances: want. An ethereal thing this conEDITOR HARSH stitution. Last constitution- is of 1918.| Editor's Note.-—A propos to all the

Mary had a little sheep

is, exhibited by the

doretment Labostoren VOUTH TEACHES

hres ah evnt ex
Ominion

 
   
  
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
  

 

4 PR ENG 9° sovernme | To Mary it did hustle SA YS WRITER No members knew where it was, or| dramatic critic is in of the past two or
ss created a great deal of interest. Mary sheared off all the wool what was in it. Lamentable state of| three weeks. Let us introduce Mr.
hs “4 _ Several commercial concerns had LEA RNED PROF And put it in her bustle. yesh, things! St. John Irvine, dramatic editor of the
a teresting exhibits:—Moirs Ltd., East- e| This was received. with apparent AMBITIOUS: AND. IM- MacCunn—Can the speaker give a] New York World. Who was imported
ars. ft | Hosiery Mills, Nova Scotia Light gett th satisfaction by a waiting world. > specific instance! _ Laughter! especially to fill this position.
baa. eG Power Co, and Imperial Oil Co. MacGREGOR REMEM- Mr. Justice Mellish referred to ITATIVE YOUTH, NO MacKinnon—I've asked you—you j Mr? Irvine is an Englishman ei inimetoe
"The Nova Scotia Technical College Science as ‘organized common sense. PIRATE gaye me vague answers. Now have Ij A humorous Englishman. The extract
sss exhibited various pieces of apparatus] _ BERED He gave subtle description of Dr. A. H. satisfied you?—(Stamping in audience] is from the McGill Daily and is printed
Pad Ys connected with mining engineering. it MackKay'’s knowledge by saying: He sh ty 4 _|showing approval). only in part. The criticism is of the
Acree is aL ae! ? “Would you like to see an atom?| knew many. things and also knew much. . Ax 18 the eee of invention, for MacCunn—y eS. musical comedy ‘‘Three Cheers’? now
oF BY THE MAGIC WHEEL or hear an atom?’ said the Learned] Dr. MacKay spoke very touchingly: | @vention AE ee oe MG cue MacKinnon—We're supposed to be| playing on Broadway.
c . ; ; ad Professor. This is a wonderful world!—I. cannot | ust be insincere. Artis the liberation,| educated in this university. We're [ here and now assert that if the

for your own relief, of all the emotion | going through that process. If stud-| whole of the first act had been ‘‘cut”’
stirred in you by the spectacle of life.| ents don’t take an interest now, they|and the entire second act had been
[t is the transmuting into some art] won't later on in life. omitted I should not have. worried

i Pat The visit to Room 41 was well worth “Ves,” I said. “Please! ‘‘Both.”’ say all. I feel. Few words. cannot
_ ~~ the climb. Here again were spec-| So he led me to a little brass gadget ; do it and I cannot venture more. This
_tacular, as well as technical exper-| with an opaque glass top. An assistant | is alla miracle to-me. _ I owe everything

    

   
 
    
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 

       

 

  
  
    

   
   
   
  
  
    
      
     

Senate to ratify it. It’s for you, for

the students to ratify it. The people INTERNATIONAL

themselves must ratify. We are goy
grey te nae eenate ane ats! SOCIETY NEWLY
Sai (The audience FORMED

Gavsie—Who created Council—if

not Senate? Where does the Council ao Ghd
get its power? PROMOTION OF

Journal John Grammar Schoola pumptious New
ge Jon: Brunswick. Student at Pictou Academy
THE CANADIAN #4 . Well suited to deliver a toast to
Prince Edward Island.” (Quite interMERCURY A NEW national-minded, our beloved professor!)
LITERARY Connie MacFarlane called New Brunswick “‘our Siamese twin.’’ This was

JOURNAL | very apt and well taken.
And as for the orchestra: it was good!
More than one face looked as though
the music had tduched the heart strings.

1s was a marvel in ingenuity and
sientific skill. Another interesting and
spectacular exhibit was a model of the
~— Maass Pump for circulating gas. |
Room 51 proved extremely | inter
cee.” Seating. Here among. other exhibits a
- Miniature Copper Refinery was in
operation ey the Flotation process
__ was being demonstrated.

Veer, : ’ Ree Se eee es oe Hee , .
ah _ _ iments;—The Magic Wheel, The lodine turned a crank, and straightway, fine;to all my teachers and associates. I Se 7 nif aah vies Yanee One way Mg interest students 1s to}much. All that I needed for my
fF a Clock, Various* Types of Stills, Glass| lines darted across the glass. He} have been a creature of luck. ee as aN ae en bt “0 ae raise the fees! (Laughter)—It's in the/entertainment was that Mr. Rogers
i, env Blowing, Preparation and Explosions said it was the Alpha Particle on the _ Rev. D, K. Grant spoke | of the eee cone Wad cousin, power of the Council to put the fee up. should occupy stage from 8.30 until
aie of Nitrogen Iodide. LA rampage. I believed him. I believe; kindly disposition and. magnanimity of ay ah a4 ta) her ate sald: re 6 co _ Lawrence—It would be beyond jur-| 11.30 without any rest whatsoever.
~~ “Mt. Allison’ very kindly loaned 4) any story I am told: but he may have] the heart of Dr. MacKay to the extent | 't 45 hi aire oes 1 BW oo theill 0 con} isdiction to raise fee. If Mr. Roger can make me, a foreigner,
“collection of Rare Substances which | deceived my credulous innocence. Those} of its greatness. panne it—pet rane e ae wie 9. i MacKinnon—They have the right! | feel. intimately and humorously acat oat t “had, prepare ; ‘ (Continued on page 2) Prof. Gowanloch referred to Murray Put that must not be the thougnt tha _Lawrence- -No! it must be subject quainted with the domestic policies
ee ROH m 42.dealt with various analytical MacNeill as our beloved professor and (Continued on page 2) to ratification by the senate. of the United States, how immensely
4), methods and War Chemistry. ‘ all the boys were pleased. (They show- MacKinnon—What the deuce has his effect on the natives must be.
Benes a ta j | The Canadian ed it.) They were more pleased De what an aR E epee co do with it. I do not believe there is another
Sania Vk mes MAASS PUMP ees ae i ai aia a ca TATTLER ASKS Gale te ne ee it from ae ae oe anywhere rie bie could
4. bee: ee eae 4 -ounty and Nova Scotia. A Nova onstitution. te ads.) _ scourse before an assem of mixed
e Cane Shysical Chemistry was | exhibited Mercury New Scotian! Brought up in Newfoundland— FOR SERIOUS _ MacKinnon—l repeat: It is a highly (Continued on ace
. ds ‘ at Room 44. The Conductivity Appar- a Newfoundlander. Educated in Saint impertinent, tmpudent thing for the
HER ‘ j
fe

DRAMA

“Dalhousie, our college by the Sea.”
how often this phrase is repeated without a thought as to what it all means.
The sea is a place of infinite possibilities,
it touches all shores, it brings always
a new life with its old waves, and to our

   

 

Thy Canadian Mercury, a new mon- eyes its boundaries are far horizons.

, f EOI f G > * . . > , NV 2 5 ci —eo fz il cs = » Dae
i a t G pene Y thly journal of literature and Opinion, i i ; Here beside its ever restless waters le ee “I Pov to Rie the a FRIENDSHIP
NE 2 7 2 Lhe , 7 | OM | December} [t did. Dreams of Utopia were re- | ;, iatcorsity <. Aled a place onlin eres owever it has the capacity
me. 7 BGs gy Exhibit was displayed appears in ontreal on WVecember flécted in ‘the: dapt lexpressions of ti is our University. It is also a place of but not the power Be
* he eology CX) : ; : . ‘ » literary ctec © te expressions ¢ 1G: eee ae sibilities ~ ao s , At the Y. M. C. A. S /
isuse. This newcomer in the literary infinite possibilities. Shiner AAs a4 - eh diteeeeiice* Be Y. M. C. A. Sunday afternoon

ar in Room 47. Around the walls were

charts and pictures depicting the life of

ss warious gt Focteal ages in chronological
order.

there came into existence a new Society
known as the International Club. It is
composed mainly of Dalhousie Students,
with a few outsiders, residing in the
city. The society was organized chiefly .
through the efforts of Mr. Tom Parker
of Dalhousie.

The purpose of this club is to promote a feeling of friendship between the
students of different countries, races
and creeds. Such an organization conforms indeed with the very principles
te eee oe ee mee been
Rakin—There. was mestiog atl te ee oe ale Deconte, a
which a financial report was ‘ ie : oar panne icc

MacKinnon—| haven't seen §9NY) Kendal Fay, Halifax; M. George,
notice of such meeting. I haven't seen failia’ Flarold “Chae i raters
it in the Gazette. There should be Sch sae oN “York: ‘Geo iis
agenya in order to bring it before the China: Alfred Waddle. Trinidad. Tok
students. , : to ’

Officers should be elected by student poate Te Jone te See veo
bedy, and not within the Council. Go rok 3 . vialif hae : yf
They should be elected by direct vote. MeCarth hes "t es Te Basie
These candidates will have to come out B ich Col bia, . t L. D = ‘yy
flat-footed and say what they're going Ca; ee i ut AAS | Papeete?
to do. They are elected on past Mr Donald McPhail secretary of the
record. And not for what they're ve CA te lnadee a6 Se pene
that some co-operation will prevail in| 80!n8 f° = ye nS sipport band! rhe nest meeting will be held at the

| on ~ | Will he not? We want candidates
the matter of organizing a Dramatic that | lau dows “platioring: at Y. M. C. A. Sunday afternoon. Mr.
Cluh. | sgh 3 P ms, we must) George of India will speak on the con
“The Tattler” — (Continued on page 3) ditions of his country.

Since the beginning of time there has
been a quest after new things, new
places and new ideals. Common sense
tells us that seeking all the unknown
parts of life are still in the future with
our degrees. But here at home are
many quests to seek and new ideas to
find. The great world of dramatic
art is still untouched by our generation
at Dalhousie. Why cannot there be
brought into existence a Dramatic
Club which will play nothing but the
best elass of drama. Two. plays a
year is all that need be presented,
but what a success could be made of
them! Trials are held for debaters,
why not treats for actors? The. GleeClub ts all right as far as it goes, but
it doesn’t go far enough. People
expect of it all that the name conveys
and do not look for serious art.
There is enough interest in plays here
at Dalhousie to guarantee the success of
such a movement. This interest in
many cases may be traced to English 9,
but serious drama should be part of
our lives and not only part of class work.

This is just a suggestion in the hope

would will be edited by an Editorial] @udience..... Mow many faces 7
Board of three, consisting of F. R. umed a look of pensive importance. .!
Scott, Dr. Felix Walter, and Leo Ken-| And talk abour reflexes—the snappy
nedy. This announcement is of par-|©ampus medleys brought back the
ticular interest to university students natural expressions —and smiles! _
in Canada in view of the fact that this} By the way—Prof. Stanley Walker
new venture has its origins in an under- | Tefetred to Kings College as a mere hole
graduate literary paper of a high)!" the ground, today! (It is.) But
standard, published at. McGill Univ-| through the proper biological process it
etsity a few years ago. The McGill would blossom forth... . ete.
Fortnightly Review. And Ernie Howse had a clever telIt is the purpose of the Canadian] egtam. And Eileen Macaulay said
Mercury to bring to the reading public that girls who took biology were out of
of Canada the best work, in the field of luck because they doubt their love:
literature, drams, art, politics, science, “Do I love. this quest or am I just
and industry that may be found in the] Cllecting more data? |
country. And Templeman hoped that the
The composition of the Editorial ladies would never be less beautiful, nor
Board assures the highest literary} ™Ore Inquisitive. In their presence
standards for the journal. F. R.|even Biologists discard Darwin's theoScott, who is on the Faculty of the J ‘
Law Department at McGill, is an The fifty word telegram idea was
ex-Rhodes Scholar and holds a Bach-| everywhere lauded. A few post morelor of Literature degree from Oxford,| tems. Horace Read: “These wordDr. Felix Walter, a member of the|°gtams made the evening.” pe “ai
French Department at Queen's Univ-|_ Dr. John Stewart: “We ought to
S| ersity, is an ex-Moyse Scholar and has} Wtite a new verse: —
spent several years in Europe studying It’s a way we have at Dalhousie—
|foreign literature. Leo Kennedy ts a Done and Done Quickly.
young Montreal playwright and author And wasn't it a great boost when
who has appeared in the Dial, Poetry} ames Nelson Gowanloch announced
and many other journals. Ccrtrved cr pege 3)

* tween capacity and power? (Great laughter.)

MacKinnon—For more interest—
two general meetings a year should be
held.

Murray Rankin—All students are
asked to come to Council meetings.
No one ever shows up.

MacKinnon—At McGill—two general
meetings, in spring and fall. If Council
deserves criticism, it should get it.
Here it’s only through the Gazette,
that ‘criticism ever appears.

 
   

 

   
 
 
  
  
    
    
   
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

ty ere Collections of Nova Scotian
nd other Canadian Rocks were on

In reiting exainplesof Crystal Struct» and Quartz, etc., attracted many
irers, as did also the fossils of the
isages. Ores of Commercial value
d in Nova Scotia proved very inespecially to those interested
al production. —
NOMENAL PICTURES
x interesting feature of the
exhibit ease splendid collectres of | ologica phenomena

 

.
e

ning thin sections of

“roscope.

    

} JONML See as 2. SS
   

'

r ~
4

 

    
   
  
  
  
  
     
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  

Yo aie ber aes
if & J. Be a 2 va. . .

but a fifth generation Canadian, came to Dalhousie in 1923.
following summer he went to St. Andrew’s University, N. B., to do

 
  

va


 

aay nh

e showed the pictures of two able Dalhousians
1ultaneously awarded the Rhodes Scholarship.
er B. Ross from Truro and Kelvin Marshall from
ie. an unusual honor for a University to have
anks elected to the Rhodes Scholarship in the same
et t is is the second year in succession in which the
e to Dalhousie. Last year J. Hugh MacLennan,
- won the all-Canada scholarship and Roy Clark,
| led ‘ine, won the Newfoundland scholarship. In two
Rhodes scholars will carry the Black and Gold to Oxford.
i x that Dalhousie has a very unusual record

oe Bor’ Rhodes scholars. dn 1903 the scholarship came to our college

_ for the first time. The method of selection was then quite different
from that now in ruling. The Nova Scotia scholars were nominated
by the University itself. The first to be nominated, (anyone
acquainted with Dalhousie might well guess the name) was Gilbert
S. Stairs, of Halifax. From that year until 1917, when the last
scholar was chosen under the old system, seven Dalhousie students,
among whom was John E. Read now Dean of the Law School, were
selected by this University to represent it in Oxford.
Since the power of selection has been given to the Rhodes

- Scholarship Committee six other Nova Scotians have been added to
Dalhousie’s lists. Bor ie of these was John A. Dunlop in 1921
and the last W. rps Ross 31928.

ut ‘these é onl fon Nova Scotia: Two other Provinces
the ancient ae Cs repeatedly chosen their scholars from
In.1905 Louis Brehart of Prince Edward Island was
stéd the first of fourteen Rhodes scholars from outside Nova
Sortie to be taken from Dalhousie. Of these fourteen New Brunswick thas chosen three, Newfoundland five and Prince Edward
_ Island six. Altogether in the last twenty-five years twenty-seven
r aemalereb ibe have come to Dalhousie and in the last seven years

hav ne to Dalhousie. Indeed it is possible that more may
be adde Ve are not certain that these records at our disposal are
right) But whether or not, twenty-seven Rhodes scholars in
_ twenty-five years is a record of which a much larger University may
well vi proud. We are not sure if it is equalled by any other universityin Canada.

The qualities which Mr. Rhodes outlined as desirable for
aspirants to these scholarships were: intellectual ability and scholasti¢’ attainment; moral character; instincts for leadership and
interest in their, fellows; and fondness for manly sports. When
ae ‘seven times Dalhousie can send to the greatest university
gland a man measuring up to these standards, and when after
: Te the dower of culture which that historic institution can

‘ - these men scatter over the Dominion to give to its people
hee we rth of their enriched lives, Dalhousie has made a contribution
to our ge greater than can be measured by statistics and
pfecordas sth hs tes

  
 
 

   

  

—E.

0%
»

| Zoology At Dalhousie

The Biology Club Banquet which, under the direction of Profor Gowanloch was such a brilliant success leads us to hold forth

4 for a moment on the progress which the Department of Zoology at

Dalhousie has been making. A day or so ago, after several futile

attempts, we finally succeeded in rounding up professor Gowanloch

and because of our importunity elicited from him the following

ih facts ee his students, and his work.

owanloch, who by the way is not an American
The

Professor

research work taking with him as student helper Ronald Hayes who
has sinee gone far in the same field of research. The next summer
at the request of the Federal Government Professor Gowanloch

using a crude-oil burning vessel especially built for the purpose

made a. Biological survey of the waters around Halifax, and in
(1926, as the guest of the New York Biological Society he indulged
in the gentle art of catching sharks from American waters. For
the last two summers St. Andrews has been again the scene of his
resea s. In 1927 two Dalhousie students went as his assistants.
The work of one of them, Mabel A. Borden, effected a change in
gislation. Last summer Professor Gowanloch directed
7 work of. four a three of whom were Dalhousians

sgiona they then be gan.
rtunately, nou they have done excellent work Dalents have been and still are seriously handicapped partly
‘space and more especially by inadequate library facilities.
er has been made to the extent of outfitting a private
ory which accomodates fourteen students in ad_and of equipping a small library—a very small library.
ywanloch has been working for two things, the establishSchool of Fisheries and a library where besides all necessary
re > will be available to students all first class Zoological
ranada, the United States, Great Britain, France,
‘ The former was realized this current year. The
is still unachieved.
a ago Professor Gowanloch began to
7 rhere within convenient reach of the
tion for research in Marine Zoology
Station he drew up the plans and
whic nly twenty minutes
ete Federal Sarees then

'
4

| Meaket lines may have been made by

| apparatus, with a gaping mouth. To it
jl put an attentive ear, and | heard a

{ whict

Ba Jitor Harsh
_ Says: Writer

| (Continued tro from page 1)

 

- ‘(Goetinued from page 1)

 
      

      
 

1 drives"? u to write.
a fine needle ree Dae lee Art is not entertainment. The true
|! Zot ve been t i a aad artist gives but little thought to the
sats-je? Science needs spectator; all he seeks is expression,

as dike fa aith. h escape, release. Half of people's desire
Then he ed me to another piece of to write is hunger for fame, and the
other half imitation. They have no
emotions or view-point of their own,
and, are never thrilled by a_ noble
passage in an author without wanting to
write like him and from his view-point.
The reaction has\been to literature and
not to life.

Many true artists start from these
two points of ambition and imitation,
and work through, dropping the false
values, one by one, till they discover
their real selves. They may never get
anything published at all; but a really
big thing always gets through—sooner
o: later.

However, true artists—people who
drop the false values—ambition and
imitation—even though never able to
produce anything big enough to be
worthy of publication—without imitating the works of others—at least
can join the few who understand.

A previous Gazette stated that the
plagiarist is like a pirate destroying the
property of the author of the original
work. In my opinion, that name ‘pirate
is rather too strong to apply to a writer
who is still struggling to find his real
self, and in the meantime, borrows from
others.

Real artists would be glad to find
that some minor writer has so thrilled
to their work that he borrows their
ideas and expressions, thus showing
that his taste is worthy of an artist.
He is, at least, on the right road to the
discovery of his real self, the value of
his own productions, and the real
extent of his originality.

lf, when he has dropped the false

values of ambition and imitation—he
cannot express his intimate thoughts
with any literary effect, without borrowing modes -of expression from greater
artists, then he should withdraw without any feeling of shame for imitating
the works of their—yes, or for being a
plagiarist—win'e he was struggling to
find his real se’f.

He has done no crime, he has merely
showed a great response to literature,

  

    
 

‘static’, that mellifluous
to to the strains of the radio

so charms the possessors of those
costly MWiceeat baken.

The Learned Professor said it was the
atom chirping, or pecking at its shell,
or words to that effect. It may well
have been. Qwe sais-je? Faith is the
one thing needful.

Then he led me across the room to a
sort of altar—a rude scientific altar—
or wood on which were disposed three
of those elaborate playthings with
which hbysicists amuse themselv es in
their so-called laboratories. ““These are
three pieces of apparatus which MacGregor used. We use them still. He
Beebe this for Doug. Macintosh.”’

Then I lifted my eyes and saw the
picture of my own friend and colleague,
above the altar erected to his memory. It is an excellent portrait of
MacGregor at his energetic best; and it
brought up many recollections the

well made little man, with the long
ambitious stride speeding up Morris
Street. He always walked fast; he
had so much to do. His dark reddish
hair and beard were matched in color
by his eyes. And those eyes could
flash fire in the Faculty debates.

MacGregor in his empty laboratory,
in overcoat and over-shoes on account
of the cold is another picture. He was
carrying on those researches W hich the
hlysicists now call, ‘“‘classical,’’ here in
the Little Old Dalhousie, that hadn't
any Carnegie or Rockefeller endowments, or anything much except the
red brick building and an Idea.

It was MacGregor that won his way
to a Fellowship in the Royal Society,
by his fifty memoirs that gave Dalhousie her reputation as a school of
science and that supplied the old rigid
curriculum. He earned his promotion
to the most famous chair of Natural
Philosophy in the world and he left a
lasting mar, on Edinburgh, as he did on

noise like
obbli

      
   
   

  

it

    
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
  
   
 
  
 

   
 
       
 

    
     
   
 
  
 
  
 

Dalhousie. . though not to life itself, and is ready
The year 1901 marks an epoch—| now to join the real artist’s best aud
Lord Johs’ phrase—in the history of} ience—those who understand but can
Dalhousie. That year Macdonald died, AGED AaemeOdt imitation.

and MacGregor went to Edinburgh.

There were tears in his eyes the day he
said good-bye to his friends. They heard
of his great career and hoped to see him
back in Halifax. There was talk of his
coming back for a visit. But it was
not to be. He died suddenly in 1913,
Dalhousie's most distinguished alumnus.

It was a pious acf to set up even a
temporary alter to his memory. The
Little College does well to remember the
man who did so much to make it what
it is.

—M. A. B.

REPORTER DEDICATES P CEFMTO
DANCE

That two heads are better than one;
and that the Freshmen and Sophomores
know more than their proverbs was
amply proven by their ‘‘Royal Dance”’
at the Royal Yacht Squadron.

Our reporter was so impressed with
the Romantic Atmosphere that he was
moved to dedicate a poem: (He wandered in the last line).

Unparalleled in history's page,

For planning, plotting, scheming
 

 

Dramaand Dramatic Criticism
iCanumned trac: page 1)

he fear snakes. The greater number of
his sensibilities would remain undevelop
sage
ed. (except those directly attached to} here stands the Dance of Freshieinstinct). : 1 Sophs—
The child at first does not like other Jt cheered the. heart; humanized
people and only desires to associate the professors.
with them after he has connected them (We would suggest “profs” in the

with pleasures and comforts.

By far the greater part of the child's
character and knowledge is gained
from imitation of his parents and
from reflexes which they have conditioned. Thus it is apparent that the
responsibility of parents is unlimited

last line.)

Besides being treated to moviesque
terpsichorian exhibitions by those well
known on the campus, the reporter
unwittingly stumbled on a_ heated
discussion On whether the truer explanation of ‘‘IT’’—was ‘“‘psychological”’

since their character will largely be oc bhysioldgical’’. “This argument was
reflected in that of their children. rudely interrupted by the strains of
We laugh at the child's baby talk with-}«4\.5° Wiedersehn’'—and the mad rush
out stopping to consider its origin. | f,, partners. But perhaps some day
Babies are certainly not equipped with Dora Bur—and Mary Barbara—(why
an “‘Infant- Esperanto” at birth! The should I divulge their names?) will

child is father to the man and is a social
product of the early influences in the
family and household relations.

 

 

a husband her search for an old exper
On the other hand the training in|ienced head on young shoulders, is
the home may be too severe. Thus|naturally a fruitless one—especially
we see a majority of students who are| when the particular shoulders belong

to a student! Once the adolesce period is reached the decline of the hitherto blind affection of the child is natural,
and parents are wrong to resent it.
The importance of soc iety as a milien
in the formation of personality is inestimable, and the home is the primary
unit of society; it is the microcasm of
the larger social universe.

confirmed radicals—in all probability
this trend of personality was spanked
into them! It often happens too, that
the co-ed waits too long for the “right

man.’ This mal-adjustment may _ us
ually be traced to a strongly developed
parent-fixation. She is so attached to
her father that he has become her
male ideal, and thus when she desires

SC

became interested in his project and agreed to erect a $40,000
station that for its size will rank with any in the world.

To give a further impetus to the Biological work of the university Prof. Gowanloch without any request at all, was offered
in the new three and one third million cold storage plant a thoroughly
equipped laboratory where students will be able to carry on certain fundamental fisheries researches better than will be possible
in any other place in the world. They will be able to study ageclass and sea-fisheries deflection from a landed catch of ninety
million pounds per year.

Professor Gowanloch also has achieved distinction outside this
University. Prior to his coming here he had worked in Marine
Biological Research on both sides of the continent, and he was
for three years personal assistant to the Head of the Biological
Laboratory at Woods Hole, the largest#laboratoryof its kind in the
world. Last year he succeeded Dr. A. H. Mackay as Dalhousie’s
representative on the Biological Board of Canada. On several
occasions he has been asked also to give expert evidence before the
Royal Commission on Fisheries. ;

_ Itis however with his work in the University and its possibilities
that we are now especially concerned. These possibilities are
greater than most people imagine. Dalhousie is the University
nearest the richest fishing grounds in the world, and with the
resources of Dr. Huntsman’s Fisheries Station, the new Laboratory
and the new Eastern Passage Station it is clearly written in the
stars that in a very few years the College by the Sea will afford the
finest opportunities in the entire world for fisheries research in
vestigation. ‘
BE. Mi. Hi.

 

 

 

   
   
   
  
 
    
   
  

 

   
  
  
 

— a

“HILLERS |

At the Pine Hill dance a young. “aa?

_November 3th, 1928

Nee eee

See een)

~HALLERS —

One day, a ele te man, flushed with

(?) was heard to remark, ‘‘a short dress} pride and wine, sitting with guests at

shows good form’ iy (pethaps).

Many Strange things were seen and
heard at the Science Exhibit but the
best of them all was that a man grew

four inches while getting into the
Zoological show.
P. S.—This has been corrected, it was
4 2-5 inches.
* * *
She: ‘‘And do you really love me?”’
He: “Oh no, I’m just collecting

data for a thesis—Overheard at Shirreff
Hall.
* * *

“And how do you get along with the
butcher darling?”

Ex-Dal—"‘Oh splendidly! He's such
a generous man! When I order a
four pound joint he always sends one
weighing six or seven.

*x* * *

Professor MacMechan declares he
has an almost uncontrollable desire to
cheer when he hears of a_ reckless
marriage. Just another step, Archie,
and you'll go one better than Judge
Lindsay! O tempores! O Mores!

Ignorance

Editor's Note:—The little werse is
reprinted from a Gaszelie of 1920 because
tt has been found true ta actual experience. An old “grad” sends it in as
a warning.

Ignorance is Bliss
(From the Quadwrangler)

The sentiments of some college man,
as expressed in some college paper,
name unknown:

“Failure in physics; flunked in math,”
| heard him softly hiss—

“I'd like to spot the guy that said
That ignorance is bliss.”

 

 

stage a little debate—that the world
may know,—since that night the reporter has become philosophical, however.

Youth must be served. One popular
co-ed was waited on by two cavaliers:
She had enough to go round for a
dozen. i

“For Seniors Only.”

 

What are rules

—but to be broken? This little sign
pointed the way to a cool yet romantic
artistic attic, where even the Vigils

came and cast approving eyes. ‘‘For
Seniors Only’ ‘"—The moonlight waltz—
its magic! And behold nearly all the
Freshmen and Sophomores wereJSeniors.

So what with congenial chaperones:
Miss Margaret Lowe, Dr. Geo. E.
Wilson, Prof. and Mrs. Murray MacNeil
and refreshments had by all, a good
time was bound to follow. And oh!
what fomantic atmosphere, with pictures of sailing ships and the sign for

‘Seniors Only."
_ The Committee: Gordon Cooper,
Chairman '31; Gordon Harris, Wilfred
Dauphinee, Helen Williams, Drummond
Eaton, Chairman °32, Elizabeth Murray.

"Nuff said!

table, all quite merry, conceived it would
be jolly fine to crack a joke upon his
secretary.

“Young man,” said he, “by what
art, craft, or trade did your father earn
his livelihood?”

“He was a saddler sir, the young man
said, ‘‘and in his line was always reckoned good.”

“A saddler, eh? and had you stuffed
with Greek, instead of teaching you like
him to do! And pray, sir, why did not
your father make a saddler, too, of you?

At this each flatterer, as in duty
bound, the joke applauded, and the
laugh went round.

At length the secretary, bowing low,
sais (craving pardon if too frée he made)
“Sir, by your leave, I fain would know
your father’s trade.” ‘

“My father’s trade? Why, sir, but
that's goo bad! My father’s trade!
Why blockhead, art thou mad? My
father, sir, was never brought so low:
he was a gentleman, I'd have you know.”’

“Indeed? Excuse the liberty I take,
but, if the story’s true, how happened
it your father did not make a gentleman

of you?”
—M. A. B.
a eB

Some students talk as if Christmas
were less than a month away. From
the 15-22 of December alone, is approximately three years.

* * *
difference
onion—

If you don't know the
between a male and female
you don’t know your onions.

* * &

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

 

The Exhibition Committee take
this opportunity of extending its
sincere thanks to the students of
Dalhousie University who so ably
demonstrated the various exhibits.
Their enthusiastic cooperation and
generous sacrific of time made
possible the success of the exhibition.

* ££ *

Owing to the closeness of that dread
college student bogey, the exams, the
Newman club dance scheduled for this
evening has been postponed until next

term. This Sunday will be Communion Sunday for members of the
club at St: Mary's at nige o’clock.
* * *
LAWYERS ONLY
Dean Read: The next topic is Criminal Appeal. You know all about it.

| know nothing.” (Great-stamping,)

Student: tj then you won't ask
that on the exam? You weuldn't
know whether ie Wi 4 right.

Dean: I'll asl Doty to examine

it for me. (greater etn

; oo ok
When anyone makes a nuisance of
themselves, they get it in the neck.

Shades of J. J. P.

 

SONETEERS COMPETE

 

ON CONSTANT

not

FRIENDS

My friends are in human habit

Cc lothed,
Nor sordid tricle nor gold will win their

love;
They do not let my pain remain unsoothed,
Nor do ha use my height to climb
abo re:

My friends are but the ripples on the

Wave,

hat mirror back the sun in hammered

gold,

And, sighing on the stones they gently

Assuage

love,

my heart
untold:

A tale remembered from long ages past—

with tale of grief

How man first sinned—all good and

evil known—

And from his former childlike state was

cast

Into a world with tares and brambles

 

sown;

But in the jungle of this earthly night,

They say, a flower blossoms—chaste
and w hite.

In fact for anything

 

Also A Complete Musical Service |
456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

 

For evnniebens EQUIPMENT,

Basketball Supplies,
Badminton Outfits,
Dal. Sport Sweaters,

ART

The chink of gold is fatal to the Muse:

The freely flowing phrase, the liquid line,

Indignant when | woo them to be mine,

Know that I’d wed for money, and
refuse.

Unaided art can only hope to lose.

The grapes of worded music’s
wine

Wither upon my commerce-blighted vine

And, pressed in vain, yield but a boozy
ooze.

The plan for gain my senses undertook

Is vetoed by my soul (which dwells
apart);

My tongue is willing, and my pocketbook,

But not my inspiration; it’s my. heart

Controls my tongue, and she would
never brook

My hope of worldly
art.

heady

gain through godly

—Don Murray.

you may need for

your favorite recreation, |
VISIT CUR SPORTING GOODS DEPT. |
|

+ . HALIFAX, N.S.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
   

  
 
  
   

    

iTS

| ces ea aa La (Cont

    

‘ inued from pag? 1)
| vote without prejudice, without bias:
| mot just because he was a good man
|| last year.—-Know what your X means
‘|when you

 
 
  

_ Negative.

 
 
 
 

 

WW ards ponents. A most eloquent speech
eee ho Ne Maa surprised that he has not ripped
ciety @reet- || | Council more than he has.
a Specialty The day cee vet
$ and"quotations | government will be perlect.

a o> ? The constitution provides for many

     

: has overlooked. ;
iw Store The Senate would ask Council to
rington Street take referendum of students.
eee Ft, MacKinnon—There is nothing in the
Sse! | article mentioning students.
ae 6 MacCunn—It’s in the last sentence.
ee , | Beer tani ee sentence.
I adi MacCunn—(Reads it. |
oe dies College eeceice Tuas no mention,
4. and expressed or implied of students.
MacCunn—Why should it be compulsory to state future platform, instead of past récord. Isn't a mans
past to be considered >—(Laughter until
further questioning from floor) —Itake
it that we have sufficiently provén our

}

   
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
    
     
  
  
   
  
      
  
   
  
   

—<—<— — —

 

Conservatory
of Music |

pp er and Lower School

Tr
=)

PLP

4 : os, | ans ‘ 1
, hers’ Certificates in Art |||point. |
P on Household Science ° Affirmative.

es; ; Don Grant—We will not leave you
ae os eee in the dark. I will tell-you a story of a
_ Tel. S 224 photographer touring - Cape Breton.
lite £ (Laughter.) :

— Laurence—(interrupting Grant), Is

 

are ETA Sa: my | speaker sure it didn’t happen in Pictou?

apes ree ts Grant—One proposal election of
eTrTIne: officers should be by popular vote.
S’ ‘-UDENTS The President by the present system Is
eerie only an indirect choice of the people.

i e aes” Delta Gamma and Shirreff Hall
Se en should have a voice.

‘Text Books | Business of Council should be posted

a ide. wa’ before the ene. ei
_ No ' Imagine $100 expended on lemons
fh Note Books on a trip. There should be a_paid

. year-keeper. Amendments 75% of stu
eee. fl * :
or LOC dents who should have to petition for
me Yee Loose Leaf Books amendments. Constitution is in a lama - ental le state.

me Stationer y; Etc. Laurence—(Interrupts abruptly.)
ee.) Don Grant—My opponent forgets
ee he is at a meeting of intelligent Dal
: ay) * *

er. —_——) housians and not in ‘“‘one-horse Maree vA garee’’. (Great laughter). j
mn, Rankin—Such a revised copy as the

one to which MacKinnon has referred
is at present being placed in the various

IT. C. Allen & Co.

 
  
  

 

Eee v. libraries. : s

_ 124 & 126 Granville Street Grant—As Council now stands tis

: ea ya like a ship upon the high sea without
V A Pe a compass.

Grant—tThere should be two general
meetings at which candidates should
state why they seek elections—on what
platform. a

|” Webster—De you mean that everybody should have a platform?

Rankin—You're going to run

Jof lumber. (Great laughter).
- think

— oo
a

| < Ear a. a“
| HUBLEY’S
ee si Pa aoe
* } | ae eg P 4 SP Sit Whee nee 2 5 :
| DRY CLEANING, DYING

Se a os , ,
ey we _ AND PRESS! G

P Oitoae ik

| a an i aad.
. lad 5 ge t < i ‘ ax?
re ae Sg LET o— eNVes bens +

‘agheree oo

i a _- J i 7" y { al ,
* er 4 x jek a Bids aes eyes bl
‘| SPECHAL 10% DiscoUNT

short

  

the speaker is’ mixed up.
He contradicts. himself Jamen tably.
| Donahoe—Why should. the

PEC girls

i _ GIVEN TO DALHOUSIE have separate representation—outside
..  Eiewee of that they already have. k
| s STUDENTS ' ‘MacKinnon—Shirreff Hall (girls bP
aes - ii ‘ « int . ’
bE ; Ae * ree <1 sidence) forms very important part o
ee oe aa) bere Oitcount university. They should have direct
ae — MacKintosh — Should Pine Hill,

(boys residence) have direct representation? : ; pa
MacKinnon—(Stumped for a while).
There are needs at Shirreff Hall that
there are not at Pine Hill. (Great laughter). We must not go too deeply into
this. (Laughter).
Rankin—Basis of representation 1s
according to number of students tn
each faculty.
MacKinnon—Dismiss ideas of faculties. »
Negative.
Roy Laurence—'‘‘True cloquence Is
to speak the truth and feel it.” My
opponents have done neither! (Applause.) Tome Proportionate Representation seems to be the main issue,
tonight, (with great gusto) my O9pponents have not proven that the present

o'r ; —<——
| ae ! 4 2

fi } : Say tt with Flowers, Say it with ours
‘||. ._ THR HOME oF

| Cut Flowers & Potted Plants
| ; } We make up Funeral Designs,
jj also Wedding Bouquets. We also
|| do Table Decorating. We are the
fj only members of the T. F. D.
|| Florists. We can wire Flowers
| to all parts of the world

| | : The Rosery

8 BLOWERS ST.

 

t

ah |) Phone Sac. 3321-3322
[Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

 

7h

  
   

| that all disbursements be made throug
put it down,—don't vote
blindly. Vote for a purpose. 4

~~ MacCunn—Ladies, most humble op:

to come when.

things that Mr. MacKinnon so blindly

faculty Senate on equal terms.

wh Fc
s;

i By
ee

    
 
 
 

  
  

i vs CUM Wi a Ae aa iy , a
Pee Mee na Ea My hae |
Ne Oy Pe Ah. CIA Oey aga kate,
LAT Chay a 2 jae eet Ee

ee , i 4 GP - - an R } af
et a

i Cee ate

     

 

ee

if A, af : * "
“ ‘- : ia a yf

PIDLY CRITICIZED |}

 
   
 

   

 

Ts

Donahoe—What does this “
ed control’, mean? , cee

 
 

1Z poe
| Laurence—I-I--I--I cant er, it mean

    
   
 

      
  
 
  

‘secretary-treasurer of Council. §
Ladies and gentlemen if there 1s tn

think you have then you'll fall in li

 
 

Let sleeping dogs lie.”’
Rebuttal.

 

the council per se.

be)
.

Much noise, no wool

n't be frivolous.

Are you going to agree with Laurence
and say that you're going to vote for

the candidate who brings out a frivolous
platform.

We want progress. What can we do
to improve conditions? The president
has unwittingly helped me out by saying
that nobody comes to council meetings.
Council members are not infallible,
we want:

1. Popular Election of Officers;

2. Amendments to be ratified by
students and not senate.

Shaw—I want to discuss powers and

capacities. I want to see a sovereign body

of students. One that can treat wath the
There's
no question as to who is supreme:
The Senate has created the Council.

If any dispute arises there is the great
Machiavellan system of discussion behind closed doors:The lion lies down
with the lambs. But the lamb 1s
swallowed up.

Students must get logether and become
independent! Then if there’s any trouble

there will be—a REVOLUTION—
that’s all: (Long and prolonged cheering).

Rankin—New Committee of Nine
is Inter-mediary between Senate and
Council. This shows that both are on
equal footing. .

MacKinnon—The Council of Nine
sounds like Spanish Inquisition—like the
Sinister Six. (great laughter) The comittee of Nine—when they finally do
make a pronunciamento—there still

 

remains—Murray M acNeil to veto
everything.
MacCunn—I won't say Murray

MacNeil—I'll call him the registrar.
(More stamping.) Why should a person have to go from Council of Nine

to registrar's office when registrar
is himself on Council of Nine. _
MacKintosh—Why? Why? That's

what I'd like to know. He knows everything! And who knows nothing?

Morton—I want to congratulate
the president for having the Munro
Room open later than the regulated
ten o'clock. They should throw out
their chests. However it is only because* the janitor is at the Science
Exhibit. (Great laughter).

The constitutional issues raised by
the Negative reminds us of Political
Science Class and History of Law.
They bore us. we'll not vote for that
side. Miss Shirreff Hall and Mr.
Pine Hill agree or disagree with an
issue because so.and so necks, or doesn’t
neck; or she smokes or doesn’t smoke.

The presidents of all student organs
should be on the Council; editor and
business manager of the Gazette,
presidents of Glee Club, D. A. A. C.
Because they are the workers. They
worry and work for the students all
hours of the day and night while you
fellows are gas-bags! While you are
talking they are slaving for the general
good. They are the doers.

MacKenna—Last year at a general
meeting one faculty (referring to Law)
put their ideas across.

Kelloway—(interrupting: MacKenna
need not be answered on his irrelevancy),
Negative gave noreasons. They merely
said: I dissent from affirmative.

The Pine Hill idea was to use the hot
air of the ministers to warm the cold
waters of the North-west Arm, for

 
  
  
  
       
    
   

  
    
   
 
   

aM} ment avail

,
®

  

| bosom of Mother
'} be seen the seismo

4

%

   
     

i

iOUSIE GAZETTE

 

BLACK ART
i mA “ $$ PG mites
| (Continued from page 1) ~

ing Purposes. © “oe ype ae 6%

‘gaeatest attention.

was transformed into a

and could not only be seen but heard.

understood when one saw
Photoelectric cell respond to the flicker
of light or the waving of one's hand.

{> The Engineering Department in their
exhibit, which was shown in the drafting

room, concentrated principally © on
models. Models of many types of
valves, with sections cut away to show
the inner working; a model of the
slide valve engine, showing the manner
in which the slide valve controlled the
extrance and exit of steamy; a large
sizé model of a slide rule, with which
computations were,

IMPORTANCE
OF FAMILY

 

__ , (Continued from page 1)
politicians on a live issue and cause all
of the partisans to feel friendly toward
him and toward each other. Mr.
Roger’s accomplished that feat. He
caused Republicans to laugh at Democrats and Democrats to laugh at
Republicans, which is easy, but he
also caused Democrats and Republicfans to laugh at Republicians, which is
not easy but exceedingly hard. I am
afraid he disorganized the show, but
so far as | am concerned he can con
tinue to disorganize shows for the rest
of his and my life.
“The rest of the company seem
ed to be waiting for the play to begin,
but considering what it was like before
Mr. Rogers appeared, they ought to
have been glad that it never started.
Yet there were a number of people in
the cast who looked as if they might
be exceedingly clever. Miss Patsy
Kelly for instance. This lady obviously
has stuff in her, but she was not given
any opportunity to display it. I
would have done with a lot less of Miss
Dorothy Stone, an actress whose charms

are limited, and a lot more of Miss
Kelly. Miss Stone dances finely, Two
pretty girls. Miss Florine and Miss

Irene Phelph, came out and began to
sing in that maddening infantile fashion
which seems to be popular in America.
l.implore them not to play prattling
parts again. They can do _ better
than that.

“The daacing in-this- piece is-superb,
and the company contains more handsome and beautiful girls than are to be
found in any other company that I
have seen in New York. But some of
the ladies should attend to their speaking voices. Two really beautiful girls
who danced magnificiently suddenly
opened their mouths and spoke. Oh,
God! Oh Montreal! And while I am on
the subject of ugliness, let me insist
that women’s knees are not pretty.
The chorus~ladies in ‘““Three Cheers”’
showed bare knees and bare thighs for
the greater part of the evening. Why
does the producer of this piece imagine
that heaven created silkworms. f it
was not that these industrious insects
might provide coverings for the bony

377

cavities of the female leg:

 

lFYou Want To See Wet

SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y.M. A, C. BLDG. HALIFAX, N.S.

   
    

 

form an idea of the amount of equipable and necessary for teach
| Down in the basement, resting on
Earth herself could
be s graph, which registers
earthquakes occuring in far-off Tokio.
Ladies | emen re 1 The Physics lecture room was used for
you that degree of intelligence which ao experiments, and perhaps the
1 en | in line} feat of overcoming gravity drew the
with me and say like all good old Con- wae
seryatives: “Let good enough alone.| Upstairs the staid Physics laboratory
(Loud cheering). bewildering
_... _}atray of the wonders of Physics.
MacKinnon—We are not criticizing”
_ But the SYSTEM.
Laurence's speech like shearing of hogs:}

i The
‘reality of the atom could be appreciated,

The problems of television could be
ne petter

Now more and better beer is great
as far as I’m concerned. That would
the

 

. : i hee
A

Ne

‘SMO

   

c

eon

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel .er same as one.
More than two, 2U centsextra,

|

 

Che
Halifax Chronicle

AND
Che
Balifax Daily Star

NEWSY!
ACCURATE!
DEPENDABLE!

 

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

 

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-PresC. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

 

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

 

 

 

 

ver Mind! —

   
    

NOTICE!

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO
STUDENTS

SUITS & OVERCOATS
CONDONS —

MEN'S STORE

OPS

LORD NELSON HOTEL

23 SPRING GARDEN RD.

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College.

SER VICE— Always experienced
barbers at your service.

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garde

 

  
   

     

Lurfligh Quality Standard

makes out Low Price
Doubly Attractive

OVERCOATS

FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

$24

MADE TO-MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors |
| THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS §

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

 

  

 

acDONA
FORSYTHE
College Mens’ Overcoats

$15. to $30.

119 Gottingen Sr,

LD @®

 

 

 

a ee

PIANOS, RADIOS, VI CTROLAS

Small Musical  Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Suppose tomorrow were Christmas
a few short hoursand one thousand and one things to do! Gifts
to buy—entertainments to arrange. Then everyone would
wish they had done their Christ
system is incapable of coping with the
present problems! oa
Popular election for officers is most
impractical. (He gave no_ reasons.)
Ultimate result would be this: A candidate may put on frivolous platforms

swimming in winter.
Webster—Affirmative is correct.
Green—tThis debate is most useful

and enlightening for those coming to

Dal for first time. Greatest amount of

    

EOD, BALCOM | COLLEGE COLORS

LIMITED

EEE

   

| MACL

distinctive Dalhousiestationery
Neat size crest, die stamped in

  

| 34 Morris Street
|| 174 Spring Garden Rd
im er 203 Young Street
_ f Cor. Quinpool Road
' | and Oxford Street
|| and Bedford

    
     
 

to attract votes. (He was later thoroughly squelched for imputing such
lack of intelligence to Dal Students—
by O’Handley former member of parliament.)

Don Grant—Shouldn’t we have
democracy just as other universities
have.

Donahoe—Why have you placed
Queens on a higher stand than Dalhousie? ;

Laurence—I say frivolity will be
introduced. (This was said with vehemence), and was received with apparent disapproval.)

Kelloway—Do you think the othe
Faculties will be as frivolous as Commerce? (Applause).

Lawrence—I = suggest intelligent
interjections. (Greater laughter.)

 

   

 
  
 

   
 

| George F. Power

- | SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

mi
+ a's

SSS

       
          
     
  
   


n

of every Description

i qe ve. Why not take a good old Conserae —Also— vative method stamping!

7 Jean Leslie—Has Mr. Lawrence
fp ever witnessed an-election such as that
suggested by Mr. MacKinnon?
Shaw—lIs it excifement the students
want or, government?
Laurence—Centralized control of
finances governs the Council. (Shouts

\of “Commerce House’’.)

mg

on

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.

<2
1

a

   

( Continued from page 1)
that President Stan (no other than)
| would lead in a dowdeowdow! And
|wasn’t it invigorating to see ‘‘Stan
hisself” lead in a good old Dal:
1—2—3—U Pi Dee—
Dean Read has clinched it preperly:
| Now we know where to go for the
| best cheer leader. Stan Mac Kenzie is

WHY NOT YOU?

   

  

‘REPORTER AT BANQU6T

people must get the greatest amount)

of good. Democracy is government

for the people, by the people of the!

negative argues: “Let

people. The
How absurd!

sleeping dogs lie.”
far beyond the present
progress.

O’Handley—(A former member of
Parl.) Constitutional issues make political campaigns uninteresting.

The student body should be sovereign.
It must. Shaw is right.

Leader of Negative has cast very
bad slur upon the people. We must
hope that platforms and principles will
be syonymous! If got, let us scrap
Democracy. Why can't we be. as
serious as the political electorate? |
find the students have are’ serious and
intelligent.

Levy—tThe time has passed when
grey beards should rule students.

Rankin now very patiently and
aptly answered all onslaughts anc

pointed out the dangers into which
some of the changes would precipitate
the students.

Vote «taken: majority in favour of
change of system.

spirit of happiness that prevailed on
that great memorable cold crisp day
of November 27, 1928. When all good
men (and in’ legal terminology, quoting
Dean Read: “Man embraces Woman.”’)
When all good men (and otherwise)
gathered to do honor to one of the great
hearts in the Life of a Little College.

The party ended with three lusty

i He by ihe | without doubt the best cheer leader since| cheers and a tiger for James Nelson
. ane te Was i Jack Atwood." And the reporter agreed. | C owanloch* This also showed the spirit
paieenainnien S! And all this shows the wonderful| of the day. .
7% exe gs
, ae 7 4 ¥ a mm : m Es >
H { 7 ah : F - i
Aint Gi a *. ‘ ~ he al a Ec “ ails clas Parra =

How } |
day ideas of

WINNERS

 

yellow and black on high class

parchment paper, club size, with

envelopes stamped to match, suitable for ladies or gentlemen.

Sold in bulk only, buy any quantity you require.

Faulkner’s Book Store

16 Spring Garden Road

|
We

We have a good supply of our
|

FROM THE
START

 

  

 

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS , CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

   

For Young People as
well as older folk

Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you

Best Sodas
Best Confectionery
Best Meals

The Green Lantern

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

MeDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

 

 

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Piessed, for 75c or 4 Ti kets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 1''c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

Sack 428 Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEANING PRESSING

 

mas shopping early. Remember
the early shopper gets the p’ck
of stocks and salespeople are
much more cheerful

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Diamond Merchants

 

 

SOCIETY
BRAND
CLOTHES

SOLD ONLY AT
Winter-Burns Ltd

437 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

Christmas Cards

THE ROSS PRINT
They Are Worderful

buy at home

Orders filled and delivered within
24 hours if desired.

 

The Ross Print Ltd

Phone Sack 19 .

 

 
 

  

  

   

  
 
 

 
   
 
    
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
    
 
 
   
 

 
 

  

  
 

}

by
ere |

fe

PICKING TEAM

 

 
   
 

tditor of the Gazette.

as been brought to my attention
exists, among a respectable
body of Jalhousie students, a more
han ordinary amount of disatisfaction
regarding the manner in which players
are selected for certain teams which
represent the University, in extra mural

me

the face of it this would seem like
anattempt to cause trouble for the mere
satisfacti on of certain individuals who,

“ an ¢ rated opinion which
the h

  
 
  

  

themselves, cannot conPG honest selection for the
team het does not include them in it.
I am convinced, however, that there
are other and more regrettable reasons
for this disatisfaction. Reasons which
imply the existence of conditions that
no fair minded individual will want to

tolerate. —
Managers of teams may read themthis criticism, but it is not the
Managers; present, past, or future, that
deserve. the entire blame. It is the
system under the student manager of
a Dalhousie Senior Team takes upon

hirgselt lawfully perhaps, the rensibility of selecting the. members
of that team. This state of affairs

has been in and out of vogue among the
Football, Basketalal, and Hockey teams,

for some y
The stitution of the D.A.A.C.

. sections,

 
 

—

Tepaut
, weal hades Sor

i” ball er played at Dalhousie for a
Ae umber °
TIN Go 2nd, with Arts winning

years was completed on

ionship from Dentistry.
yhout the series, which started
in the season, the games were

1)
- || all ary in fought and produced a brand
| | | of rugby

superior to that of other
| years. evenly matched were the
'|teams that scoreless ties seemed to be
| the rule rather than the exception.

The league was divided into two
Dentistry and Arts each
winning the section in which they
played. Several weeks ago they met
for the “play-off,” but like the DalWanderers games of last year it was
els the beginning of ‘a new series.
It was not until the teams had met for
the fourth time that Arts were able to
prove their superiority.

 

The final game was not as spectacular
as some of the others, largely due to the
muddy field and the slippery ball.
Both teams played a kicking game and
many long gains were made by this
method. The first period opened with
fast and keen playing, but neither side
was able to score and the territory was
fairly evenly divided. Near the close of
the period Jemmott had_ his wind
knocked out. This gave all a chance
for a rest so that when the whistle blew
for half-time the teams were ready to
change sides and continue play without
wasting much time. Shortly after the

riod got under way Arts got their
first score, on a play, that started from
a scrum about forty yards away. from
Dents’ goal line... The forwards heeled
the ball to Lamb who passed to Tom
Parker, who in turn punted the ball
across field to his three-quarters. Roy
Maxwell gathered the ball and started
down the field at a fast clip and as he
was tackled, passed to the speedy Jack
Bovyer who outran the remaining men
for a clean try. In taking the convert
the ball was placed on the ground too

   

"TAKES CHAMPIONSHIP

 

‘DENTS—0

soon and the Dents had charged within }

a few feet of the ball when Templenian
cooly kicked the ball for an additional
two points.

The score far from discouraged the
Dents, but only made them more
determined to even matters. They
forced the play right down to the Arts
goal line. For several: minutes Dents
looked good for a score and it was
only by stubborn and hard fighting
that Arts were able to hold them off
and finally kick the ball out of danger.

Again Arts took the play in hand and
slowly pressed the play into Dentistry
territory, and with a short dribble
carried the ball over the line. Patten of
Arts fell on it and thus got the second
and last try of the game. It was not
converted. The final whistle sounded
a few minutes later leaving Arts the
victors with an 8—0 score.

To pick outstanding players is*next
to impossible and unfair since all thirty
men played for all they were worth
all of the time. However a few of the
players deserve special mention. Bovyer,
of Arts, who is one of the outstanding
men in the league, played his usual
effective game, and his companion on
the three quarter line, Roy Maxwell,
proved his merits as a rugby player.
Templemen, with the forwards, handled his feet in soccer fashion for spectacular gains. Parker, at ‘fly’, was
always in evidence with his cool playing
and good judgment. For Dentistry
Oatsfield played a good game at ‘‘block”
breaking up many Arts plays. Duxberry and Petus proved a strong combination, both of them using their feet
to advantage. Byron Irving among the
forwards is always a hard worker and
tackler; Hardy Parker, also a forward,
seems to be tireless in his fast following

up.
Special mention must be made of the
forwards in general. They packed

unusually well in the scrum and in‘ariably heeled the ball out cleanly to
their backs.

Ort Hewat refereed to the
satisfaction of both teams.

general

 

 

LAW AND DENTS

Medicine won the only games played
last week in the inter-faculty softball

 

states that the team shall be poate league, defeating Dents 10—5 on Friday

the coach, if there is one and if
isn ‘t one ‘then by the Manager and

ee thave been of the opinion, erron
eously perhaps, that Mr. Sterling was

the. of the Basketball team. If

Ng is not then it is high time there was

srofessional coach appointed. If one

not be afforded I see no reason why

Stirling could not fill the position.

ithe is the coach has he any sayin the

selection of the team?

ere not dwell on the necessity of a

oach for the team. One player told

me that he had learned more basketball

playing for a high school team

thea he had when out practising with

the Dalhousie. Quite a compliment

to Dal that! Our hockey and football

teams have their professional coaches,
why not the basketball?

e evils of the present practise are
self evident. The placing of this
selection power in the hands of any
student is fraught with every sort of
danger for the success of the team and
the morale of the candidates. An
‘unsuccessful candidate may, rightly
or wrongly consider himself the equal
of a player who has made the team, if
that on is a friend of the manager,
sg e unsuccessful player is going

Sher that he has been discriminated
ceased! When, as so often happens,
the choice for a position is largely a matter of opinion, then it is essential, if
there is to be satisfaction amongst all,
that the man who makes the se ection

- be a man in whom all concerned will

place their trust. The selection of five
pecnie from a frat or club by a profal coach would only mean that

= eee frat or club had a monopoly on
layers. The selection of

fi fee Layee roma eg for instance by a

stu manager, and member of
eae, would mean anything that

an ‘other candidates took in to their

hea , to have it mean.

[here are different opinions regard
tl Py cigens in which the selecting

Aes done.
er of the. in, Manager,
>h. of ths ch i be sae ee
present system ut it ts far
perfect. Someone must
say and it is my conat there is only one man fit
) al rhage is the coach.
re woe that the

peed advise a get

    
   
      
     
    
    
    
   
    
 
   
   
    
     
    
   
   
   
     
   
       
 
 
   
 

   

   

   

nightand downing Law t3—12 Saturday
by a sensational rally in the last two
innin The game Friday mght was
one oO ahs best played yet and although
beaten, the Dents put up a hard struggle.

In Saturday afternoon's battle Law
started off like winners, and after the
first half of the fourth were leading
12,to 0. A batting spree netted the
Meds six runs in this inning and they
held the Lawyers scoreless for their
half of the fifth. The first Med up in
the fifth struck out, but then they
unleased a terrific attack and scored
seven runs, the ast one coming with
only two out and there the game
ended. By their wins Medicine took
the lead in section A of the league.

. Seore by innings—Friday.

Dentistry . . OO -b'-& OO OO} 5
Medicine O.,. 30 -4\. 3. > = 19
Batteries—Peters and Irwin; Eaton and
Jones.

Score by innings—Saturday.

TSI css cc atte 3 2 So OC SOS O22
Medicine 0.50 0, 65°28
Batteries—Redmond and Dowell; Eaton
Murphy and Minshull.

Three other games scheduled for last
week were postponed and will be played
at a later date. They were the Arts—
Pine Hill No. 2 game set for Friday
night and the Freshmen- Engineers and
Kings—Pine Hill No. 1 games scheduled
for Saturday BNO Ty 2,

MEDS DEFEAT

AFRAID OF GHOSTS?

Afraid of gibsta? Then take a
friend with you when you go to see
‘*The Haunted House,” First National
picture coming Mon. Tues. and Wed.
to the Orpheus Theatre.

 

Benjamin Christensen, diréctor of
this mystery film, has given every
variety of thrill that can be aonceived,
and it is calculated that there are
more shudders and chills in this picture
than.in any two similar productions.

The odd thing is that the comedy is
almost constant also. But évery laugh
is topped by a thrill and even when the
characters are doing the most absurdly
ludicrous things, they show the pressure
of the invariable menace.

Chester Conklin, Thelma Todd, Montagu Love, Larry Kent, Eve Southern,
Flora Finch, Barbara Bedford, William
V. Mong and others have prominent

roles.
—_—<$———_o___—_——_—_"—

“TAKE ME HOME”

 

Ramon Navarro, star of Ben-Hur”
and ‘The Student Prince” will be seen
in another hit at the Majestic Theatre
on Monday next. It romance of
modern European court life, with
Novarro as a young king. Renee
Adoree, Dorothy Cumming, Roy D’Arcy
and others of note appear. Harry
Beaumont, director of many John
Barrymore successes, directed the new
picture.

is

The current attraction is the snappy
comedy ‘“Take Me Home” starring
oe Daniels and featuring Neil Hamilton

 

 

Studley

Studies

 

: Pind The the schoolbay... cree
GP

 
 
  
     
  
 
 
  
  

Ele , is et hiseare knew about ©
If ps hatin and nine o’clock onesie

cyt ; is nua

eA eee

5 ye ae
O wy :

i ae

i ee, a

cule lo

» YEE ing Ike Gd rail,

school.

ro Sk — Ais Yow Lite Ie

    
  

       
    
 
 
  

>“

   

   
   
     
    
    
    
      
   
     
    
   
  

 
     
     
    
          
    

 

      

 

  
 
    

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
    

         
 
       

 

    
 
      
       
   
    
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
      
      

| C ASIN O Christmas ‘ie
“ | Hend pour greetings on a
hie card of pour own creation—
Thursday-Friday-Saturday something different
Gives Cups ESTHER The benefit of our experience is at
| RALSTON Ab en as to besign and comTwo cups, emblematic of the : in | alten
| Girls Inter-Class league champ- ‘‘The Sawdust | Sirk kode a ate
Mente and hae interfaculty soft Paradise’’ . iets
. eague championships respectively, haye been awarded by W. R tg NOVA PRINT Ltd
| W.. Stirling, it was announced rar eee ee: OnaTe Beers .
during the week. There is keen COMEDY 227-229 Hollis Street
interest in both these leagues and “HER MOTHER’S BACK” One ioc: oun of Post Oifice
with the news that cups will be See — —
ae SF ne winning teams ‘THE YELLOW CAMEO”
will be read with gratification by erat
| all interested i os ee Ai FIRST THREE DAYS A BARGAIN AT
all interested in intra mural NEXT WEEK
sport. Mr. Stirling’s efforts to Ae “
get the students in indoor and Beggars oi Life $25.00
out-door sports. are slowly but ee NS Rise oo
surely being crowned with success. tacks weak Chev. Touring
i aac a
Sport Brieis||| = sone suor .,., CHARLES LONGLEY
for ANYTHING in Poe
Sophs won from King’s 22—14 and MUSI ‘
Freshettes won from Junior-Senior 26 to 2? Spr CG: C Atlantic Motor Sales
6 in the girls inter-class basketball Halifax, ing we en Rd. Dondonald Street
league last Thursday night in the zie gS : =—et
gym. On Monday night Freshettes ea oe ha or oe rt et ees eats
played two games, winning from Soph- | | ae eee
mores 18 to 7, but losing the second
game to the Junior- Senior team by the O RP [> H El LS
narrow nargin of 15—14. All the games
showed plenty of good material for the
intercollegiate team, which is to be } i
chosen from these games. Mr. Stirling THIS WEEK-Fri-Sat. NEXT WEEK-Mon-Tue-Wed.
refereed all the games. Ms —-—— EIT sania
ee fe afe 3? J
While nothing definite could be learn- LIGHTNING ‘a he Haunted House :
ed, a trip for the basketball team during A Dramatic Jane Grey story of z S
the Xmas holidays is practically assured. | |} two Cabaret Girls & two Cow Boys Greatest Mystery ( omedy—Drama
Manager George Macintosh is neg- with ever Screened
otiating with several Upper Canadian Job 4
yna Ralston with
teams for games and if satisfactory Margaret Livingston Cheater Conklin. Thélaia ”
arrangements can be made the Tiger Rohe Fr er Conklin, Thelma Todd,
hoop squad will leaye their native pins Barbara Aedford and others
haunts for strange fields in search| js E a
of sealps. _ SSS
Softball is going "idee big this Fall
and is already as popular as any other |)
interfaculty sport. All games to date }| 4 D
have been hard fought tussles and with
many new players developing fast f
an all star team picked from the ranks || at a mi " t /
of the league players should be able|| nimumM Cost!
to clean up around the city. After r 70 ya e | ;
Xmas a series of games will be arranged CY Our complete Fall outfit need only cost you $68.15)
with the various military teams who
number in their ranks some of the best Every Item bears the well known label
players in the city.
ee fe fe ©
The post- Xmas tetm promises to be || Ealonia
a successful ‘one if all the plans for of vd
intra-~mural sport go through. A meet- | | i
ing of the basketball managers from the ri. Here isa complete list of each
various faculties will be called sometime | item and what it costs—get your
in the neat future so that the league|!/ Fall outfit now!
will get under way immediately follow- 7 ‘
ing the vacation. If the managers
are not alec ted they should be. &aionia Hat $5.00
Gitly “athletics “have been coming 6s .
more and more to the front» during Shirt 2.50
the past few years. The latest from 6¢ Tie 1.00
the Delta Gamma camp is that the zy ‘ girls will have an ice-hockey team after Suit 25.00
Xmas. A city league will probably 6%
be formed and if so Dalhousie will be Topcoat 25.00
represented by a team. ‘6 Gloves 1.50
ee ae ate —
The Freshettes basketball team in i Handk’ ef 25
the inter-class league has been showing :
act oo form in their games that they , Underwear .90
will likely be one of the teams in the ‘6
city intermediate league ‘when that Wool Socks .75
circuit gets going this winter. rT; Shoes 5.00
| John Hussey, Kings aes ae es Braces 15
yroke the previous existing record in
winning the annual Kings A, A. six *s Garters .50
mile run on Saturday afternoon. Hussey a ubae sy ne

for the race and was

trained faithfully
the finish of his

in good condition at
afternoon's jaunt.
te fe fe
Teams from the professional schools
are taking their softball seriously if
one can judge from the many practice
sessions and the multitude of arguments
that arise during the course of a game.
The Meds and Lawyers hooked up in a
wild and spectacular tilt on Saturday
when after five hectic innings and many
wordy battles the Meds won out.
fe fe fe
All those who wish ‘to get certificates
this year for the Teachers Training
Corps should get started on their
gym work immediately. The class will
be held for girls on Saturday mornings

while for the men it will be every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday from
12 to 1 o'clock,
we fe eke
By this time most students have
heard of the magnificent Christmas

performances to be presented at the
Glee Club, to-morrow night. The symphony orchestra and choral society are
presenting a varied program of Christmas carols and melodies while the
University Players under the direction
of W. Graham Allen will present
Dickens’ immortal Yuletide play,

“Searooge.” The players who — will
present this one act drama are all well
known to Dalhousie audiences, having
taken part in numerous Glee Club
shows during the past two years and
in the ranks of the cast will be practically every member of last vears
successful Convocation play, ‘The
Show-Off"’. Special costumes from Toronto have arrived and the stage settings are on a scale never before attempted by Dal directors. The evening’s
entertainment will be wound up with a
short dance with special orchestral
music.

——————___—_

BERRY IN SERIOUS DRAMA

 

Wallace Berry returns to serious
drama in Jim ‘Tully's startling and
dramatic story, “Beggars of Life,"
which comes to the Casino theatre on
Monday, following two years as a
comedy star. A public demand for
the return of the noted actor to the
type of roles in which he gained his
fame is responsible for his decision.
Several important productions have
been scheduled for him, “Beggars of
Life” being the first,

 

_— SS
AnIdeal Giftforthe
College Man

A Sweater in the Authentic College Colors
Priced at $8.00 and $10.00
Less Students ents disc, of 10%

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

 

<
~
a

   

 

  

  

B

Miaiatic

ng a Total of $68.15

EATON

*"“MARIT!

 
 
   

 

MES

 

MON-TUE-WED.

RAMONA
NAVARRO

THE ST

AR OF “BEN—HUR” IN
ANOTHER HIT

‘*Forbidden Hours”’

Now Playing
EBE DANIELS IN

‘*Take Me Home’’

Se

ee

 

Now on Sale

“There Go The Ships’

Twelve New
Sagas of the Sea

Archibald. MacMechan

 

GARRICK

REPERTORY THEATRE
. PLAYING NEXT WEEK
The Mae Edwards Players

“SELF DEFENSE”

New Specialties By The
The Mae Edwards
Novelty Orchestra
NOW PLAYING
‘Lovers & How!”’

  

 

   

      
     
     
      
         
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
