   

{
{

VOL. LXIk

 

 

GEORGE MacLEOD NEW

PRESIDENT, |

AN FRASER

SECT’Y. FOR COMING YEAR

E. STIRLING GIDDINGS

The last D. A. A. C. meeting held |
Tuesday noon at the Forrest Building
began with the reading of Manager
Eddie Murray's report on _ hockey.
His report was moved, seconded and
passed. The question of the remuneration of Joe Matte, coach was referred
to the Council. Murray Fraser then
laid before the meeting his report on
Football. He scored the Council in
regard to the rugby-year legislation.
He was very grateful to the coaches and
thanked Mr. Giddings and Mr. Paul
Doyle for their assistance. His report
was passed.

Mr. George MacIntosh reviewed the
basketball year and presented his report
which was accepted. The track manager, Mr. Rand Matheson also delivered
a satisfactory report. Vice-President
Parker discussed the inter-faculty sport.
His report proved agreeable to the
members.

A letter was then read by the President, Mr. W. Wickwire, which was
received from the Badminton Club.
They suggested ‘“‘A” for first team
Badminton players. The matter was
finally referred to the semi-annual
meeting of next year.

The next business of the meeting was
the handing out of “D's” to all who
had won distinction in the various fields
of sport. A proposal for a wrestling
“D’? was also put over till next term.
Mr. Harold Davidson then laid before
the members the question of an official
freshman representative on the D. A. A.
Cc. After discussion it was decided to
appoint an unofficial member to look
after the Frosh material.

Election of officers was then begun
and the following slate was appointed:

President: George MacLeod.

Vice-President: Harold J. Davidson.

Secretary: lan Fraser. ei

Manager Football team—E. Stirling
Giddings.

Manager of Basketball Team: Archie
MacDonald.

Manager Hockey Team: H. Sutherland

Manager of Track Team: H. Dowell.

The Vice-President automatically becomes Manager of Interfaculty Sport.

The following received their letter.

Baskertball—T. Parker, G. MacLeod,
H._ Davidson, R. MacLennan, S. Fairstein, D. MacRae, G. MacOdrum,
Il. Pottie, A. Nickerson.

Hockey—S. Ferguson, W. Wickwire,
M. B. MacKinnon, B. Eaton, D. Thom
n, Potter Oyler, J. Power, Omar
Pivlor

Rugby—A. MacDonald, C. Jones,
A. Sutherland, G. MacLeod, O. Hewatt,
W. Wickwire, H. Davidson, V. Maxwell,
C. Townshend, Ds ipbell, “Sat
Irvine, F. Woolnery FB. Smmth, H. Townshend, H. Suthefland) R. Baird, B.
Wishart, D. MacRaer

T- ack—George Irwin,

Boxing—'‘Big’" James MacLeod.

 

The Mount Allison girl's team were
entertained at impromptu gathering
at Shirreff Hall after the game I riday
night. Tea amd toast were served the

guests. Dr. Stevenson and Eileen Cameron acted ag hostesses. Saturday at

noon the Kings, Dalhousie and Mount

Allison team§ gathered at the Green
Lantern for uneh. On account of

Mount A playing Saturday it \was impossible to repeat the dance which had
been tendered

   
  
 
  

 

  

Are you going to be one of
those unfortunate students
| who are not going to be able
to get a Year Book? If you
have not signed up for one
already you are almost too late.

Year Boole will be ready the
last of Match. Order
today.

 
   
     
   
    

yours

   
  

we

MANAGES FOOTBALL

 

 

New Pres. Glee Club

 

WALTER MacKENZIE
who will manage the destinies of Glee Club next year.
‘Fat’? is experienced in
this work and willadd much
weight to Glee Club proiuctions:

 

UNICORN SOCIETY
HOLDS MEETING

On Monday evening at the home of
Dr.. MacMechan the Unicorn again
raised its horns for the last time during
it’s “semester. ‘An election of officers
was held. Wit MacDonald was chosen
President and Tom ‘MacDonald Secretary treasurer for the year 1929-30.
After the election of officers George
Whitiley gave the interpretation of an
Indian folk story, imitating the call of
many animals and birds. This unusual
sort of entertainment was just done by
Ernest Seton the great naturalist. Dr.
MacMechan also showed the club ‘how

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 15th, 1929

ted for ‘Glee Club

MARGARET MACKIE SEC’ YTREAS.

The elections held last Tuesday
resulted in the appointment of three
new members to the major offices of the
Glee Club: Mr. Walter ‘‘Fat’’ MaeKenzie, Mr. Richard Donahoe and
Miss Margaret Mackie.
_ The newly officers have been deeply
interested in Glee Club prodtetions
and are well qualified to uphold the high
standard of the organization. The
Glee Club has become one of the most
important Societies of the, University.

lt passed through an exceptionally
successful year under the guidance of
Mr. Sina Singer who greatly enhanced
the quality of musical productions at
Dalhousie. With Mr. MacKenzie as
its new leader, Dalhousie dramatic
lovers may well expect another very
successful session.

WALTER MacKENZIE, PRES.

Mr. MacKenzie the new: president is
perhaps one of the most popular men
on the.campus. ‘‘Fat”. has taken an
active interest in all Glee Club shows.
He managed the ‘‘Show-Off” last year
and this year was one of the principals
in ‘‘Carrie’’.. He was assistant hockey
manager this year and last term. With
a-man of ‘‘Fat’s’’ experience in dramatics
Glee Club shows next year will rival—
yes, even Maurice Colbourne’s plays.

RICHARD DONAHOE: Vice-Pres.

Richard Donahoe came to us from
St. Mary’s. He began to take an
interest in college activities even in his
first year becoming reporter for the
Gazette and Stage Manager for the
Glee Club. “Dippy” as he is familiarly known to all his friends is a powerful speaker and has taken part in several
debates—the last one being the JuniorSenior Debate. He is one of the leading
characters in ‘“The Show-Off’’ and has
been seen in numerous Glee Club productions. A conscientious worker, Mr.
Donahoe will see that next year’s
Glee Club will be better than ever.

MARGARET MACKIE, Sect.-Treas.

“Business and Pleasure Go Together”,
says Margaret Mackie. Leaving Sydney Academy, she came here to follow
the career of a business woman. She
became an executive member of the
Commerce Society and justified fully
the confidence often reposed in her by
the Society. Her chief delight is the
stage. She starred in last year’s con
vocation play ‘“The Show-Off’’ which
was puton again last night. She

he set about collecting material. for a}delighted Glee Club audiences with her
story and gave a few interesting details] witty sketches and made a big hit in

of SamuelCunard's-life—the Haligonian
man who founded the great ocean
steamship line.

Following an animated discussion

the.“‘Moron and Mackie”’ stunt. Nevertheless she is a very modest miss.
Her popularity at the University was
clearly shown by her recent election to

over refreshments kindly provided by|this very important position,

Mrs. MacMechan, the club adjourned
{ter a very interesting evening.

   

 

 

ERNEST HOWSE

 

oa .L.D.

 

 

I utely

<cememieea IEE s

  

Dalhousie

_ Something New!
Original. The Kappa
ity was started last

housie girls.

With the.complete sanction of the
college authorities for the formation of
such a sorority the Kappa Beta’'s have

proceeded and have now an organ
ization with high aims and ideals—

In these aims and ideals there is absolno reference to the masculine
element—the. members may be old
maids, flappers or fiancees as they $0
desire. This sorority did of arise
from a ‘‘clique’’ and it is mot ‘‘just a
society’; but it was formed by a few
active and progressive co-eds; whose
sole aim in so doing was to arouse enthusiasm and spirit among the femInine faction at college.

“With no distinction as to race or
creed’’—every girl registered at Dalhousie is eligible for membership. The
fact that she is registered at the univ@rsity gives her the necessary nomination to the sorority. Each and every
Class is represented. The “members
ranging all the way from freshettes to a
prospective M. A. Indeed the Kappa
Betas Phi Sorority is not just a ‘‘fad”
Which will die and in a few months’
time but new members will be taken in
@ach year who will carry on the work as
bravely and courageously as begun this
year.

A. banguet was held on Tuesday,
March Sth at the Queen Hotel of the
original members of the sorority, which
was a great success in more ways than
one. In fact it broke all the records of
Dalhousie “frat” banquets—and one
bright member suggested that a banquet be held each and every week at the
Queen Hotel.

The sorority is not as yet a branch
of a chartered sorority for but one
reason—it is not in a financial position
to do so—‘‘the spirit is willing but the
flesh is weak’—-But Rome wasn’t built
in a day and the Kappa Beta’s are hoping that some kind benefactor will
happen along and ‘‘charter” them, in
the near future.

The officers for 1929 are Claire Murphy as president and Francis Elkin,
secretary-treasurer.

 

Please !

The next issue of the Gazette
will be our last. In order that the
winners of prizes in literary competition may be announced in that
issue it is necessary that all contributions should be in the hands
of Gazette representatives before
Next Monday. This iseyour last
opportunity to contribute to the
Gazette this year.

This is YOUR paper and it is up
to you to make it the kind of
College paper you want.

TEAM WHO DEBATED AGAINST NELD.

: S |
WILLIAM JOST

+,

 
 
  
   

D.A.A.C.Elects Of ficers For 29-30

\/
Ad

Strong ExecutiveElec--A Sorority For

—

Something entirely
Beta Phi Sororfall and is now
completely organized and formed with
a membership of about twenty Dal
  

   

MT

‘Dr.

————$—$————

Former €ditor

DR. A. H. MacKAY
outlines the founding of the
Gazette, which is now celot its Diamond Jubilee.

—_—_—_—_ >

GLANCING OVER
THE YEAR

Although we don’t wish to startle you
with horrid visions—such as tearful
farewells—or even nightmares of the
gymnasium prepared with row after
row of boards mounted on_ stands,
foolscap, ink and eagle-eyed. professors
stamping up and down—yet the fact
remains—the year is fast drawing to a
close. And what have we accomplished?
Perpaps it might not throw too. much of
a scare into that great mass of unprepared students if we consider for a: moment just what has been done during the
session 1928-29.

Freshman Week, like the horseless
carriage has apparently ‘‘come to stay”’.

We lost the Senior Football League
but our Intermediate Team licked
everything in sight and only had its
line crossed once during the whole season.

The dances really can be truthfully
placed in the ‘‘best yet’’ column. The
Lord Nelson Hotel perhaps is largely
responsible, although the Gym was
never more iriginally or prettily decorated asit'was this past\yearl

The Glee Club under Sina Singer has
progressed in leaps and bounds. This
society is something which Dathousie
may well be proud—there is nothing
(Continued on page 2, Col. 5)

  

 

 

GORDON COOPER

 

 

 

a a

    
 

NO. 19

ormer Editor Gives Early History

A. H. Mackay
Describes Founding of
the Gazette in 1869

NOT UNDER STUDENTS’ CONTROL AT FIRST

oo

 

: eat:

In the sixth year of the reorganized
Dalhousie College which started with
a staff of six professors, on Monday the
twenty-fifth of January, 1869, there
was issued from the Halifax Press, the
first No. of ‘‘The Dalhousie College
Gazette”, with the motto ‘‘Forsan et
haec olim meminisse juvabit’’. I have
before me, bound in one volume, one
and one half inches thick, the first seven
annual volumes, up to May, 8, 1875.
The page was little more than an inch
longer and broader than the page of the
present ‘‘Gazette’’ folded into quarter
size—exactly a little more than 8 by 10
inches.

Vol. I., No. 1 came out with only four
pages of two columns each. The
“Salutatory”’ taking up three quarters
of the first column, the balance of the
page being devoted to nine stanzas of
“A  Student’s Translation from the
German” or ‘‘The Diver’, the remainder of which appeared in equal
instalments in the next two _ issues.
The second and third pages are devoted
to a serial under the title of ‘‘Notes on
Cape Breton”, by a graduate, except
for half a column on “The Nature of
Falsehood” ‘‘by a Graduate”, which is
continued on the last. page to the first
third of the last column. Then follotys
the final paragraph under the caption:
‘Explanatory’. At the foot of this
final column is the formal intimation:
“THE DALHOUSIE COLLEGE GAZETTE, a purely literary journal, whose
aim is to foster and encourage a taste for
literature among the studenfs of the
above college, is published EVERY
ALTERNATIVE MONDAY, by John
J. Cameron, B. A., A. P. Seeton,-and
W. E. Roscoe, of Dalhousie College,”
‘“Terms.—Fifty Cents per annum; in
advance. Single copies Five cents.”

The ‘‘Salutatory”’ contains the follow.
ing: ‘Its aim is two-fold, viz: the cultivation of a literary taste among ourselves, and the establishment of an
organ in which free expression can be
given, not only to our own sentiments,
but to those of others who may interest
themselves in our progress and pros
perity. The prosperity of a University
is. the prosperity of a Nation. The
training and mental tastes formed

there extend their influence to succeeding generations, and give to the national
character tone and direction’...
“The Dalhousie College Gazette is to be
conducted mainly by students, undergraduates, and graduates of the College.’’

The ‘“Explanatory’’ contains the
following: ‘“‘We have issued this, the
“first number of the Gazette amid much
“opposition and many difficulties and
“disadvantages. The opposition has
‘‘certainly not been against the paper
“itself, but against the mode in which
“it has been prepared.”.....“‘We will
“most willingly open our columns to any
“expression of opini®@¥Gh the merits or
“‘deniérits Oi the paper, or the manne
‘‘in which itis tobe conducted. We will
“insert all articles Sent to us on this
“subjeet, provided they are of a reas“onable length, and are not character“ized ‘By personalities. We can do
“nothing fairer.” “Will you not
“lend us a helping hand in our design?”

Two weeks later No. 2 appeared with
eight pages containing about one page
of correspondence in addition to the
general articles, general college news
being entirely lacking. The number
opened with a three quarter column
paragraph—"Explanatory, No. Il” 4
concluding with the following paragraphs.

“The chiet cireumsiances in this case
“are the students of Dalhousie College,
,, who—actuated, no doubt, by the most
generous and Self-denying motives—

wish us €6 Say that the honour of
conducting the Gazette does not belong
;
ito them. We think that we are as
devoid ot €gotism as the editors of any

journal cam possibly be, but now, perforce, we must praise ourselves a little,
_ and state that to us alone, all the credit,
—and we hope’ there will be much—

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 2)

 

   

Congratulations

The Gazette Staff takes this

opportunity in congratulating
Sodales Debating Society on
this their Golden Anniversary.
May a bright and prosperous
future be in store for them.

A

 
  

o
7 t
M7
i,

‘

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

| CLAIRE MURPHY

that exists in the halls of Pine Hill or at Kings.

 
         
  

(Founded 1869)

BEN GUSS, B. A.

. Sports Editor
: Th PAUL DOYLE

Associates
E. M. HOWSE
_ G.C. WHITELEY
FLORENCE M. BREWSTER

Reporters —

EILEEN C. CAMERON
J. LOUIS DUBINSKY

Assistant Business Manager
R. A. DONAHOE

Business Manager
~~. §, W. ARCHIBAL
5 Rosebank Ave. Phone L 2291

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year

~

-_

f Onward Gazette

| This year the Dalhousie Gazette is enjoying its Diamond

_ Jubilee and with this week’s issue we are commemorating its founding

sixty years ago.

We, the students of today can imagine very few of the obstacles
met with and overcome by the founders of our paper. None of us
stop to consider the energy and time spent by those tireless workers
in organizing and producing a college paper in the hard days of
sixty years ago. The paper they gave to the students of 1869 was
perhaps insignificant and published only occasionally throughout
the college term, but it was worthy of the Dalhousie of that time.

They had numerous difficulties to overcome—difficulties which
were greatly increased by the pessimistic attitude of many students.
These early critics scoffed at the idea of a college paper and openly
derided their efforts. But our founders were moulded of a different
clay and on January 25, 1869, the first Dalhousie Gazette appeared.

For many years after its origin the progress of the Gazette has
been rather slow. However the last few years witnessed a decided
change. The most outstanding improvement that took place was
the change that was brought about in the size of the sheet. From

a small five column paper, the Gazette became a six column one
and the size of each column was increased considerably. This year
the six page Gazette is the largest ever published.

We are all proud of the growth of our paper. It is a part of our
life and we take pride in its success. But we are as yet faced with
that difficulty that beset the founders. Even today there still
exists that type of student who does nothing to help the Gazette
but rather seeks every opportunity of criticizing it and of minimizing its value. They discourage those who work for the Gazette and
who strive to make each issue a success.

Those of us who are behind the Gazette feel that we have a duty
to discharge. We are bound by the old traditions of Dalhousie.
We must carry on the splendid standards handed down to us by the
founders of our paper and we hope that all unjust criticism will not
cause us to forget our trust. However we heartily welcome any
suggestion that seeks to promote the welfare of the Gazette. We
have always asked for suggestions of this kind and we are ever ready
to act according to the suggestion, provided it will be profitable to
the paper.

Let us then work together to make our College paper one of the
best University sheets published. The last year was a very successful one in the life of the Gazette. May the next year be full of the
same spirit. May optimism drive out and replace all pessimistic
feelings in the hearts of the student readers at Dalhousie. May the
Gazette enhance its prestige and remain forever an object of pride
to ourselves and to Canadians in general.

—S. W. A.

Ties That Bind

 

_ A famous English writer, a celebrated novelist of the nineteenth
century was asked on a certain occasion to relate some of his early
experiences. ‘‘Life’, he said, ‘““Began for me when I reached the
University.” —

One is ir
get an inkling

   
  
 

ned to disagree with such an assertion. We usually
ife, an idea of the significance of our present existence even before University age; and we would modify that sentence
by replacing the word “life” with the noun “‘friendship’”’.

For friendship we find at the University. It is on the campus
and within the walls of our college buildings that we form friendships, the ties of which last perhaps until death itself. Coming
from all parts of the globe and bringing with us different ideas,
different hopes and ideals, we find ourselves in close contact at the
University, and here for a few years we meet and mingle freely.
Here we exchange our ideas and confide in one another our hopes for
the future. From these close associations there are formed many
beautiful friendships that last throughout our lives.

Residence life perhaps is the most enjoyable. Those of us who
live in the city or who have relatives residing here, or who prefer
a private boarding house, cannot inbibe that spirit of good-fellowship
2 It is a priceless
legacy that will remain forever with those who had some years of
dormitory life. The debaters sensed that spirit in the fraternities
they visited; the delegates to last week’s Assembly found it in the
‘decorated rooms of Mt. A’s residence and our basketball team felt
it during their short stay at Acadia.

The year is drawing to a close. Many of us will soon lose a
priceless ion.

4

possess
we 1

Bis

 

ope ee oe BO

Regie e . eexcuse Us!

 

Ow ing to the illnesszof the Editor, Mr. Ben Guss, the Gazette
ing issued this week under the supervision of S. W. Archibald.
yr this reason we beg your indulgence if mistakes creep into this

and hope that you will not be too severe in your criticisms.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE _

Letter to the Editor

To the Editor of the
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:—The year at Dalhousie is
drawing to a close. It has been a
very eventful year and one that bore
the principles of Dalhousie splendidly.

The work of her students in all phases
of college life is giving Dalhousie an
enviable position among other Universities. Her faculties particularly these
of Medicine and Law are rated very
highly. Her fighting spirit that is so
apparent on the gridiron and other
fields of sport is known throughout the
Dominion. As an important member
of the N. F. C. U. S. Dalhousie is famed
for her old and splendid traditions.
It was with pleasure that I saw the tributes paid to her by the three Western
debaters.

It has been my good fortune to be
able to take part in one phase of the
student activities of the University.
During the past year I found great
pleasure in my close association with the
student body. It was their appreciation
of our effortsthat gave us thestimulant
to make the Glee Club a success. We
have had our trials. Today everything
unpleasant is forgotten and there remains only the sweet remembrance of the
many pleasant hours spent in theatrical
work. I might mention that at times
we have been criticized—perhaps more
severely then we deserved. Human
beings cannot reach perfection. We
strove to do our best and for the sake
of next year’s Glee Club performances
and for all college activities in general,
I would ask those who criticize so easily
to try to cooperate rather than attempt
to tear to pieces the efforts of those who
are earnestly endeavouring to make a
success of their work.

I want to thank the students for their
appreciation; the faculties for their
aid and kind advice; the Council; my
co-workers who worked so faithfully
on and off the scenes, expecially the
producers of the various shows whose
efforts were tireless; the Newman Club
for its assistance; the Choral Society;
the cast of ‘The Show-off”, John Budd
and his players and you, Mr. Editor for
the space that you kindly gave us.

Hoping the Glee and Drama at Dalhousie will continue to advance,

I am, yours sincercly,

SINA S. SINGER.

 

 

 

EN

    

 

Douthtul Tragedy

“When I was young and handsome”,
“*Tust I, Myself and Me,”

I used to do ‘“‘The Varsity Drag”’,
With a girl I called ‘‘Betty”’.

She was my Angela Mia”,

She was ‘‘My Supressed Desire.”
And ‘neath a ‘‘Carolina Moon”,
She’s set the world afire.

We drove ‘‘Ten Little Miles From
Town”

“Beloved"’, I did croon

But soon I came to ‘‘Cross Roads”

And ‘‘I Faw Down ’n Go Boom.”

For I hinted at ‘‘The Wedding March”
And then I said “Baby”

“7 can’t give you anything but love”
But ‘‘The best things in life are free.
She answered ‘‘I don Wanna”

I’m ‘‘Too busy”’ now for that.

And ‘‘It’s money makes the world go

round.”
And so that left me flat.

I told her ‘‘If I can’t have you”

My ‘‘Paradise” has flown.

But she said ‘‘No”’ now take me back
To my old ‘‘Home, Sweet Home’’.

 

I said ‘‘There is a long, long trail”’
And you are ‘‘All Alone.’

“Took to the Hills around” ‘tis far
To your ‘‘Kentucky Home’’.

But she says: ‘‘Sonny Boy” ‘‘GoodBye’.

‘Please don’t misjudge this miss”’

The car—she’s in—and ‘“Wingin
Home”. ;

That car—‘‘It goes like this’’.

‘*The Desert Song’’ was then my tune
Deserted ‘‘The Least Word”,

To ‘‘Linger On'’ where she had been
The rest all seems quite blurred.

And then I felt like that ‘‘Lost Chord”’.
‘*Me heart was bust a quiver’.

I swore a note ‘‘Auf Wiedersehn”’
And walked toward ‘‘Old Man River”’.

“Sweet Mystery of Life’’—ah bah.
That sweet part’s all a joke.
“But’’ woman is only a woman
And a good cigar is a smoke.”’

But those are days of “Auld Lang

ne’,

“Remember” ‘‘Rosemary”

‘“‘When you and I were seventeen”’,
“They're just a memory”.

ON

aX

2

 

S” Songs Fro

THE BALLAD ier CENTURI

This is a poem which was written by
George Nichols, formerly of Dalhousie.
It appeared recently in the McGill
Daily. We reprint it with the editor's
remarks.

“So far, outside of manuscripts from
our regular contributors, we have received but one satisfactory contribution.
This is ‘“‘The Ballad of the Centurion”
by G. V. Nicholls. Mr. Nicholls, in
his letter to us, states in explanation,
‘these verses are not and do not pretend
to be poetry. They are merely an
attempt to copy the ballads, based on
facts, which still exist and are still
being composed in out-of-the-way corners of Nova Scotia, and, | have no
doubt, in many other places.

Mr. Nicholls, we consider, has interpreted the spirit of the ballad very
successfully.”

Come all you Bluenose fisher lads that
love a life so free,

Come leave your lines, your nets, your
sails, and hark awhile to me,

For you shall hear how long ago in good
Queen Bess’s reign

The London ship Centurion did beat

five ships of Spain.

She sailed from Marseilles harbour
with a crew scarce forty-eight,

Yet Master Robert Bradshaw had
agreed a day to wait
To convoy homeward three small

ships—the Dolphin one was named—
And to protect them all from Dons an
oath he had proclaimed.

One morn there was no breath of wind,
it was an Easter day,

When in Gibraltar Strait five galleys

loomed not far away,

Their long sweep working fast, their
soldiers bravely clad and armed.

Ah, ‘twas a sight, indeed, to make e’en
Englishmen alarmed.

Each galley moved in silence with her
ten score fightihg men,

And eight and forty English for a moment blenched, and then

Those rough and ready sailors knelt
down and humbly prayed

To die like men, like Englishmen,
unyielding unafraid.

Two fired from part and _ starboard
beam, the fifth from off the stern,

And soon her masts began to fall and
soon the ship to burn.

But, such is English courage, like the
strength of English oak,

That they just prayed again, and fouptit |

the harder ’midst the smoke.

While courage is a mighty thing,
alone it ne'er won fight,

And when their balls were almost spent
right sore became their plight,

They charged their guns with hammers,
and the chains from off their slaves.
Beat back the boarding Spaniards till

their bodies strewed the waves.

Whenever, lads, your schooner drives
upon a rocky shore,

And Death draws near and calls aloud
above the breakers’ roar,

Remember, then, how long ago in good
Queen Bess’s reign,

The London ship Centurion did beat
five ships of Spain.

—G. V.V. Nichols.

mM * Golden Pens |

 

THE QUEST

 

From the peaks where the dawn first
blooms,

To the lowlands that run to the sea,

Over all of the hollows and hills of the
world,

I have gone in the quest of thee.

I have sought for thine eyes’ soft light

In the stars over tropical bowers;

I have sought for a glimpse of thy
beautiful face,

In the sweet of the Northland flowers.

I have sought with my ears to catch,

Where the rain-winds of summer-time

roam,

The sweet sound of a voice which the

echoes still ring
Down the weary, gray streets of home.

But thy smile it eludes me still,

While the night with unhastening bars
Fastens down o’er the rim of the dustyeyes world

Her dark door with its silvery stars.

—F. M. B.
een eae

LIFE

 

He was weary of reading and writing.

He lost his grip on the pen

He was deat to the voice from the pages

And he longed for the accents of men

He had dreamed till he tired of dreaming

He was sick of the scholar’s career

For he longed to share with the horny
man

A joke and a joy and a tear.

So he closed his books and he dropped his
pen ee

And he eagerly sought the living men

But a dreamer smells of his lonely den

And they sent him back to his books
again.

And he opened his books and he grasped
his pen
But he hated them now as he hated them
then
For his heart was still with the living
men.
————————_

INDIGO

 

Cool, cool the indigo blue
Of morning and mist and trees
Stretches its beauty to uplifting heights,
To make a poem of the least of these:
Shadow lingering deep in the wood,
Ripple of wind on the infinite sea,
Grass that sun-shot makes the field
A quivering jade-gold tapestry.

Warm with the warmth of indigo blue

The morning fades to amethyst,

And color of day comes slowly through

Blue and mauve from the indigo mist.
Eileen A. Cameron '29.

Oo”

MUSIC

 

Spurting like a gush of blood.
Drenching the body with its thick red
stream

Bursting like the urgency of Spring

Lying latent in the womb of Nature
Restless to be born

Struggling like a captive bird

Beating its breast against the bars
But never free.

Violent, impotent, grand.

Music!
—E. R. B.

Reminiscences of aj My Velvet Lady

 

Velvet cheeks I love to touch,—
And velvet eyes of brown,—
Profusion rare of velvet hair,—
To you my heart bows down.

If I were king o’er all the world,

‘ And sat upon my throne,—
I'd pass it by without a sign
To have you for my own.

But if you cannot give me hope,
And if my suit is vain,—

Come what may I'll always pray
That friendship sweet remain.

Glancing Over
The Year

(Continued from page 1, column 5)

 

exactly like it at any other University
on the continent. The Dalhousie Band
was an innovation this year. The
Symphony Orchestra is now just as much
an institution as Convocation.

The new King’s Buildings are rising
on the campus.

A $250,000 Archives Building has been
presented to Dalhousie.

The Year Book which will be out the
end of this month is entirely a new
departure and will compare favourably
with the best in Canada.

The inter-class debates for the new
Hon. R. B. Bennett Trophy have been
of great interest and have brought forth
new talent and fostered class loyalty and
better feelings.

The Students’ Council elections upset the dops as usual and the old council
was defeated, except for one man.

The Gymnasium has been used more
during the session and boxing, wrestling,
fencing, badminton, volley ball, basketball, and soft ball have had a greater
number of followers.

Interfaculty sport has been a success
from every standpoint.

The: Western Debaters did the Caesar
act—veni vidi vinci.

Some of the students have guessed
what N. F. C. U.S. means.

Our Senior teams have played well,
have not been supported very well—
but have showed up fairly well in hockey,
basketball and track. ;

The Freshmen who got plucked at
Christmas found out that there isn't
any Santa Claus.

Prof. Bell made his annual speech on

smoking in the gym.
._ The Forrest building didn’t catch on
fire and Jack Atwood didn’t put any
fires out so they had one over in the
Medical Science Building with just as
much fun.

Hash became the National dish at the
Hall.

The Library acquired a rare system of
attempting to procure books. The
“system” failed.

The President took his usual close and
fatherly interest in student affairs.

Prof. Bennett absent-mindedly got
married and stayed out for a year and
so of course English Il had to struggle
along without him. :

A rival humorous paper started up.

The usual jokes were made at Glee
Club about our two Irishmen—Drs.
Stewart and Todd and received the
usual laughter.

The bells got out of order every second
week and rang at the wrong time—just
as they have in the last 20 years. Or at
least ever since we have had a department of Physics which makes it a point
to study the ringing of bells.

_ Murray McNeill made his
joke on the results of ‘feast day”’.

Horrors of horrors—the table in the
Arts Building was used for studying
instead of for Bridge Playing at the
first of the year—but not lately.

The rest of the year and much more
you may read for yourself in the Dalhousie Year Book. $2.50 a copy—
if you haven’t spoken for one, better
right away—only a limited number on
sale—coming out last of month. See
Ron. McColl, Charlie Miller, Barney
Archibald, Ralph Morton, or any class
officer right now!

annual

 

R.S. M.
a

. VISIONS

 

Sometimes it is your face I see

As I gaze at the flames in the fireplace

—Through them and beyond them.

Sometime it is your hand I touch

As the grizzled dusk is settling

Like dusk on the face of day.

But only when the rain quite silently

Streaks the window pane and shutters,
dripping

Do I,—through the quiet patter

Catch a whisper of your voice.

—E. R. B.

March 15th, 1929

Halalers

1st Dumb: You can easily tell that
Betty MacDonald is Scotch, can’t you?
Ind dumb: She isn’t stingy, is she?
ist dumb: No, but her favorite expression is ‘‘Hoot Mon!’’
OG

Tower oi Babel

 

Miss Lowe has a gramophone. That
makes three automatic talkers in the
Hall—besides the ninety-seven girls.
le fe ote

What one Haller is puzzling about—
how on earth will she explain the presence of a plugged nickle tied to a piece
of thread tin the phone?

fe fe fe

Metaphepics—Someone suggested removing their head in order to wash their
hair. Granted it could be done how on
earth could one see what was going on.
The First Floor main are all for asking
George Wright.

ae fe fe

Now that elections are over the
Hallers have nothing interesting to
talk about. Pine Hill exams and hash—
worn out subjects—will probably be
resurrected.

*.
* °°

7
°% .

Exit

 

There is a dog named Toby

And every Sunday morning

He gets outside the door

And barks and barks and barks

Tis sure that if he keeps this up

He won't be there or here much more.

/
+¢ + ° 9°

ACHILLE’S HEEL
(That's my weakness now)

The wave in Peg Sproull’s hair.

Tech college, page Ede Barnaby.

All night phone calls—Peg White
Deafness—F reshettes when the phones

 

ring
Boys—Shirreff Hall.
a
Wisps of Smoke

On smoking an imported Russian
cigarette, the smokers gave vent to
their reactions as follows:

Gavsie: I feel as if I were over in
Russia in a Revolution.

eeeckenat I feel kind of ‘‘Red”’ myself.

Turnbull: These go great with a cup
of coffee.

Smith: These are the kind of cigarettes.
that make you Trst-sky.

Bengusky: I smoke and dreamauo
olden times. And everybody laughed
and said in chorus: “I would smoke
no other”’.

(The cigarettes smoked were the
‘Nicholas II” brand, manufactured by
Benson and Hedges.)

JUST BETWEEN
US CO-EDS

(Sincere apologies to Lloyd Mayer)

My DEAR I’m SO exClITed I could
almost SCREAM! I mean isn’t it just
GORgeous What the YEAR is ALL
OVER? I MEAN it was OODLES of
fun while it lasted—except for the
HASH but one DOES get BORED and
TIRED of having NOTHing to do and
LONGS for the HOLidays, don't you
youthink? ‘MEMber last FALL at the
FOOTball games with SINger leading
the BAND and how we all TTROOPED
in town after BEATing Acadia? I
MEAN FOOTball games are HEAPS
of fun, I mean seeing BILL WICKwire
and FAT Irving and Cutie SMITH all
covered with MUD—I MEAN isn’t
it KILLING? HONestly I actually
found myself wanting to YELL out
LOUD! And ’MEMber the Glee Club
with WHACKey being TYPically WHackey and what nasty things said in the
GAZZette about Clyde DOUGlas’s
hair FALLing out—as if CLYDE could
prevent THAT! And wasn’t the LAW
dance just the BERRIES at the Lord
Nelson except that I NEVER could
find my RIGHT partner and MY
DEAR—reMEMBER the Christmas
concert that ACTUALLY LASted ALL
night and [ still HONestly believe that
they LEFT my name out of the EXam
results JUST on purpose—you KNOW
they DO THAT just so you won't get
TOO HIGH hat and forget to STUDY
after Xmas BEcauMe I got plucked in
Philosophy and I gave HERbie the
WORST line of SCOTCH jokes—and
wait ‘til I tell you the CRUELEST

(Continued on page 5, column 1)

 

 

 

WORLD FAMOUS PIANO PIECES

 

&
COLLECTION of Musical Masterpieces including the
most popular compositions of Greig, Offenbach, Strauss,
Lange, Tschaikowsky, Mendelssohn, Godard, Moz
Schubert, Handel, Rubinstein, Beethoven, Chopin and many

other great artists.

Price $1.00

 

——

456-460 Barrington St., ~ Halifax, N. S.

%
,

, Brahms,

“UW at |

 
   
      

  

 
   
  

or 4
S rr ome ©:
} ‘ 4 ;
: 1 Sd
En A an ? 5, ‘ We 4
3 a fe oF ql
. jy
, - a 35 at bi ‘
fe r H a
* . Pl =
; 7
E slo

 

oes PR. TORY

Special to

     
   

 

 
 
    
  

5 Asa
eee

.
*
i
7
=
"2
‘ 4
«” ol

4
AD, ee

_ DUBINSKY.

 

which the five Maritime Universities of
sings, U. N.EB., Acadia,. Mt. A and
alhousie took part and% which was
held at Sackville Friday and Saturday
last week, passed in Maritime history.

a

   
   

    
 
 

2 er |

| st was a most successful experiment,

| -—s« Surpassing by far the fondest hopes of

| the energetic Committee that worked
ke 7 o faithfully to bring it about. Those of

‘ae ol who were fortunate enough to be
et t will remember the event for a

Jong time and will think of the week-end
| of March 8, 9 and 10, as the most in
Ba Geeta ting one we ever spent.
| ‘The first session oe ee Assembly
| began Friday night at 8 p.m. in Beeth| even Hall with Dr. MacKay of Dal_ * housie as chairman. In a few apt
_ remarks he introduced the principal
speaker of the evening, Principal J. M.
Palmer, LID. of Mount Allison. :
x ___ Principal Palmer welcomed the various
delegations and in a very stirring address
. described the horror and destruction of
_ the last war, the part Canada and Britain
had played and stressed thefnecessity of
_ the League of Nations to prevent further
annihilation of mankind. The speaker
was very effective in putting all the
_ delegates in the right frame of mind, his
speech being very much appreciated by
the audience. :

The first business of the session was the
report of the committee on credentials.
This was followed by the election of a
President for the Assembly. The vote
that was taken resulted in the election
of Mr. Roy Laurence of Dalhousie as

_ President. It was indeed a_ great
honor for Dalhousie in that her, delegate
was chosen to lead the destinies of the
first Assembly. The choice was an
excellent one. During his stay at Dal
housie Mr. Laurence has made an

enviable reputation for himself. A

veteran debater and one of the present

council’s most energetic members, Mr.

_Laurence was well qualified to assume

the duties of the presidency. He con
ducted all sessions in a most admirable
manner, fully justifying the confidence

At ane sro in him by the various delegations.

vir. Henry B. Ross of Kings was selected
as Secretary for the Assembly.

President Laurence then addressed
the League Members after which the

Agenda was adopted. The report of the
- Council was brought in and discussed.

The question of the evacuation of the
7 Me hibclancl (ormeil the last topic of the
evening's program. The debate on that
question was begun by Mr. Tingley

(Acadia), member from Argentine and a
hot discussion ensued between him and
- Mr. D. Finlayson (Dal) member from

France. In the absence at the evening

session of the other member for France,

-D. Grant (Dal) also spoke eloquently

in behalf of the French policies. A

vote was taken on the resolution that the
‘ee French should evacuate the Rhineland
: but as the result was not an unanimous
one, the motion did not carry. Prespia Laurence then adjourned for the

a .

The morning session began with the
presentation of the Opium Report by
Mr. Ganesh Sawh (Dal) member from
India. Mr. Sawh spoke on India's
attitude towards the diminution of the
sale of opium, the revenue derived from
it, India's unwillingness to force the sale
on the world and he stressed firm stand
regarding home consumption. He scored the policies of Persia and China.
Mr. Moosai Maraj jr. (Mt. A.) member
from Persia continued the debate and
showed Persia's unwillingness to do her
share in lessening the sale of opium.
Persia is willing to wage war against
contraband goods but if there is to be a
limitation of opium, Persia wants the
yrivileges that other countries receive.
[Then Mr. G. Smith (Dal) member
from China arose and laid before the
Assembly the Chinese attitude. He
refuted the arguments of the previous
speakers and proved China's willingness
tocometoterms. China must no longer
be exploited.

Miss D. Putnam (Mt. A.) member
from Finland then presented the report
of the traffic in women and children.
She gave a complete list of the various
activities of the League in this sphere

| Pres. Aodel League

oA me
r

 

 

s

ia late aos

. “fear ae ; = i 2 j

Pe ie ee ah rahe A.
et =, = we eee Ff Bl
f a 5 a Ais.

29s The first Model League of Nations in | di

 
    

hiner,

Riek

YUR INTERESTING SESSIONS HELD,

ADDRESSES ASSEMBLY

le Gazetle’—By J. LOUIS] of its work and spoke on many pertinen®
0 | !

questions relating to child welfare.
The subject of mandates was not
scussed by the delegates, but was
referred to a committee of experts.

The next subject that occupied the
attention of the Assembly was the
Bolivia-Paraguay dispute. It was fully
discussed by Mr. C. N. Hendrickson
(Acadia) member from Chile. He showed how the League had been successful
in preventing a war in South America

The election of three non-permanent
members to the Council was next taken
up and the results of the secret vote gave
Poland, Belgium and Australia the
seats. The Argentine and Persian members acted as tellers.

At this moment, the proceedings of the
Assembly were stopped and the President read a telegram received from Mr.
Ben R. Guss, editor of the Gazette, who
congratulated the delegates in holding
their first Assembly of this kind in the
Maritimes.

Proceedings were again resumed with
the plea of the member from Spain
Mr. L. D. McDonald (Dal) for a permanent seat on the Council. He was
followed by the members from Lithuania and Poland, Messrs. W. G. Berry
(Mt. A.) and J. A. Trites (U. N. B.)
These gentlemen eloquently argued for
the possession of Vilna. The matter
was finally referred to the Sixth committee. se

The representative of Great Britain,
Mr. R. D. C. Stewart (Mt. A.) then
arose and delivered a powerful oration
on the proposals of his country regarding
disarmament: As disarmament was
to come up &lso in the third session, no
discussion ensued then. He was followed by Mr. J. L. Crowe (Mt. A.) member
from Japan who discussed the work of
the Assembly with reference to Intellectual Co-operation. He cited as examples the aid given to Austria and
Hungary and also spoke in praise of the
system of student exchange.

Mr. W. L. Snell (Acadia) member
from Chile thanked Mr. Crowe and his
committee but felt that the institutes
were becoming too nationalistic. The

uestion was laid aside for the moment
Tearherine Hanifen (Dal) membern
from Greece brought in her report os
Greek refugees. The other members
of the Greek committee were, Mis.
Evelyn Burns, Miss Eileen Cameron
and Miss Gwen Fraser (all from Dal).
Miss Hanifen's address was short but
very well delivered and she presented
her country’s policy admirably. That
brought to an end the morning's session.

At 2.30 p.m. proceedings were resumed
for the third time and Mr. J. J. Andrews
(Kings) member from China criticized
the intellectual Co-operation Scheme.
He thanked the Committee for their
work, however. The policy was also
scored by Mr. H. Nichols (Dal) of
Hungary because of its too nationalistic
aspect. Mr. Smith of China voiced the
opinion of his country as did also Mr.
Sawh of India. The question being
settled. ,

Mr. F. Forbes (Dal) then brought in
his report on the cdiferation of International Law which was referred to a
committee of experts.

The report on Disarmament was
brought in by the Dalhousie Delegation
consisting of Mr. G. J. Redmond (chairman) Mr. Morton Kitaeff (Belgium),
Mr. Wilfred Dauphinee (China) and
Mr. Percy Henley (Belgium). Another
was presented by Mr. J. Lumerick
(U. N. B.) of Italy. Before the discussion On these two reports began,
Mr. Simms (U. N. B.) from Austria
laid before the Assembly the proposal
of his country. Mr. G. T. Smith (U.N.
B.) member from Germany pointed out
the German viewpoint and discussed the
various injustices to which his country
was subjected.

Many were the lengthy discussions
that followed these reports. Those
1 who spoke were: Mr. Redmond, Mr.
Risley (Acadia) member from Canada,
whose address was excellently delivered,
Mr. H. Nichols, Miss Chiasson (U. N.
B.) from Italy, Mr. R. D. Stewart,
Mr. L. D. Denton (Acadia) member
from Peru, Miss Nancy Bowden (Acadia)

Mr. D. A. MacRae (U. N. B.) from
Czecho-Slovakia, Mr. J. L. Dubinsky,
member from France, Mr. Arthur
Patillo, Hungarian member, Mr. Clyde
Douglas (Lal) Indian representative and
Mr. Henry Ross (Kings) delegate from
Japan. It was decided not to have a
vote on the subject of the British and
Austrian proposals nor on the report
of the third committee. His speech
brought the third session to a close.

The fourth and final session opened
at 8.00 p.m. in Fawcett Kall with
President Laurence in the chair. He
introduced Dr. H. M. Tory, bresident
of the League of Nations Society in
Canada, as the principal speaker for the
evening. Dr. Tory, who comes of a
very distinguished family, is the third
Maritime Frovince man to attain that
great honor, and the Model Assembly
was indeed fortunate in having this
distinguished gentleman deliver an address to her delegates.

Dr. Tory’s address will long be remembered by the large audience that
crowded the auditorium. He spoke
on the splendid possibilities that he saw
in a League Assembly such as this and
was quite convinced that it would have
a marvellous effect towards promoting
a real acquaintance with the Geneva
Assemblies.

he reviewed in brief the history of
mankind and showed the gradual
development towards national cooperation. Many difficulties will have to be

_ | surmounted before world peace can be

(Continued on page 5 column 2)

ees

SIE FIRST PRESIDENT

TK ————————————————————————————

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

“

 

ue of Nation

  

 

Student’s &3 Fantasy

By J. Louis Dubinsky

 

    

 

 

‘(Continued from last week)

Romans was not popular as a professor. He had never won the admiration and the respect of the students as
MacKay or MacGregor, nor did he
carry that influence and weight in the
community which would give the institution prestige with the public. But
he did win the esteem and affection of
his congregatign of St. James Church,
Dartmouth. When he resigned his
charge, the congregation were very
sorrowful to lose their “‘highly esteemed
and beloved pastor.’ Made during his
life the confidant of many people, Romans was given an ideal corner in the
Reading, Room. What stories he is
forced to listen to every day! What
loudly whispered gossip rises from that
corner to his ever listening ears!

“* His life was gentle; and the elements

So mixed in him that nature might stand
up

And say to all the world, ‘This was @

’ Man.”

Well might one repeat these words of
Antony in speaking of James DeMille.
DeMille was truly a wonderful man,
and his sudden passing was a startling
blow to all. Death robbed him away
in the prime of his life and destroyed
the hand that would have brought
glory to Canada. DeMille was one of
Acadia’s and later of Dalhousie’s most
popular professors. His work despite
his early death was considerable and of
high merit. His ‘“‘The American Baron”
was translated into French by Louis
Ulbach, and several other works of his
were published by Harper's. His fame
went beyond the boundaries of Canada.
In her history of literature, James
DeMille has won a secure place and
in the hearts of Dalhousians his memory will be cherished as one of ‘“‘Nure'sat
finest gentlemen.”

Near the door hangs the portrait of
MacGregor. Small bearded face, with
eyes that portray the hidden power
that he possessed, he gives one the
appearance of having been a very active

erson. MacGregor had worked hard
indeed. Of the necessary implements
that were essential to his, work, MacGregor had few. He was compelled to
provide everything as he went along.
But he rose in spite of all obstacles to
the highest pinnacle of honor, bringing
fame to himself and his University:

James Gordon MacGregor saw the
light of day for the first time on March
31, 1852. Educated at Free Church
Academy and later at Dalhousie University, he received his B. A. in 1871 and
three years later, his M. A. He became
a Gilchrist Scholar and from 1871 to
1876 he studied at Edinburgh and

Leipzig. He distinguished himself in
these studies and won his D. Sc. from
(To be cor

London University. From that day,
MacGregor’s name became a_ byeword in the realm of Science.

Honors were heaped upon him in
abundance. He became an _ Original
Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada
and a Fellow of the Royal Society of
Edinburgh. His native province conferred upon him the highest awards
that she could give to scientific men.
In 1901 he was _ chosen for the
Chair of Natural Philosophy at Edinburgh. (This event in MacGregor’s
life/bears a relation to the sacrifice that
Canada had made somewhat earlier.)
His fame was now assured.

MacGregor has done much for Dalhousie. His name is a bright star that
shines perpetually and directs students
that wish to follow his footsteps to the
“Little College by the Sea.”

“Should shame dry the tear that is
falling, lamenting the one that is gone?

Sing, saddest of Muses, bestowing
thy dirges in mournfullest tone!’’

These words of Horace expressed the
deep sorrow that prevailed over Dalhousie University when the spirit fled
from the body of the highly respected
Dr. Weldon. His passing severed from
the Dalhousie family its greatest
supporter and produced a gap in that
circle that could not be closed. Dean
Weldon had made a powerful impression
in the two fields of politics and education. As a politician, the late Dean
was famed for the upright and strictly
honest methods he employed. Perhaps
sad to say, that is why he never attained
any great height in that sphere.

3ut in the field of education Dr.
Weldon had made a deep and permanent impression. His contribution to the
legal sphere of our education was
immense. He created and he was the
Dalhousie. Law School—and it, in turn,
has become a monument to him. He
moulded it along lines which weathered
the tempests of many years and are still
to be perceived. He implanted in his
students a desire for unselfish service
and the works of many of his pupils
have built and are building the fabric
of our democracy.

He loved Canada. He was a firm
federalist and he strove to establish
that spirit of unity in the University.
In his mind there also were formulated
those ideas with which President Wilson
was possessed and which gave birth
to the League of Nations.

Little wonder it is then that those
who knew him speak in tones that are
filled with reverence artd admiration—
then, turn aside to wipe away a glistening tear or two.

The afternoon is slowly drawing to a
close and shadows are creeping gently
over the Room.

A sudden. hush seemed to have fallen
over the students.

itinued)

 

COLD AND THEY
TOOK ME IN

I was literally FREEZEing and as
Shirreff Hall was only a block away I
decided to go there to get warm. |
confess I rang the bell with some uncertainty. Almost immediately there
appeared somewhere above a pretty
blonde head with BROWN eyes and a
wealth of golden water waves, and a
tiny voice trickled down, “Our DORMAN is subject to auditory indigestion
—what I mean is, he no KINNEAR
very well, so you will just have to keep
on ringing TILLIE GRANTS you
entrance.”’ Cnce inside, LOWE spirits
assailed me: I felt awfully embarassed
and as the girls came round I| felt my
cheeks grow RUSIER and ROSIER.
However | was saved from fainting by
the SKEEN of my teeth when attention
was diverted toward the BUTLER and
the PAGE who very seasonably engaged
in fisticuffs. Only a wisecrack could
make me popular now, so when someone
spoke of having pork for lunch I took a
chance and suggested it must have been
NEWNHAM. Everybody cheered!
You can imagine how good this made
me feel, indeed I became quite FULLER
confidence. Then | told them of the
LOVEly girl I mef at rink who lisped so
delightfully when she told me of her
experience with a policeman. She persistently said “COWPERTHWAITE”
for “‘copper’s weight’ and insisted that
he must have been on ‘““THURLOW"”’
because she met him in the FORREST
But this story didn’t take so well and
I prayed that the floor might open and
I fall into the CLLPITTS below. Here
was | TILTON on the piano stool:
the silence was rapidly approaching the
point where it just couldn't be BA:RD
any longer, an’ i said to myself: ‘‘Now
what the ELKIN I do?” Again the fates
were benevolent to me. Some gir! asked
me if I would sing for her. ‘‘MacCOY
maiden”, I answered, “I regret that my
designer omitted some STAPLES from
my vocal organs and I am unable to
sing for you, but | shall be delighted to
CHANT something, although, before
I’m through you may wish to "EVANS
I hadn't.” Anyhow I did and every
one thought it was WELDON. Right
then I felt like old AB’'RAM Lincoln
must have felt when he was elected to the
Presidency—but I really wasn't disIRVING of so much happiness. Things
were surely coming my way; this last
triumph had FOSTERed a few SPARKES of hope and my face was no longer
ASHLEY grey from nervousness. Picture my state of ecstasy when a charming little brunette from Sussex said |
reminded her of SULLIVAN when he
was CHAMPION and asked me if |
had ever gained anything on the football FIELD! I answered in the affirmative and exhibited a BREWSTER
prove it. I’m sure I must have turned |

 

 

GOD?

The house was still with the stillness
of approaching death. The tiny figure
on the bed stirred. My mother’s eyes
lifted from the boy's white face and met
the doctor's gaze.

“Is there—any hope?’
sounded dull and lifeless.

“No, he can't possibly survive the
night!” the doctor tried to sound kindly,
but the words rasped the stillness.

The boy and girl standing by the
door heard and _ then. slipped again
into the dark hall. As if by consent
they walked to the high window facing
the stairway.

Outside the moonlight gleamed coldly
on the snow. The stars seemed more
remote than ever before. Slowly the
girl knelt. After some hesitation the
boy took his place beside her. Slow
tears coursed down their cheeks. Their
tiny wet noses pressed against the window pane.

"Let's ask God to leave him,”
girl said.

Broken phrases, words half formed and
a simple faith made the prayer.

“God, please let him live—we won't
ever hit him again—he can have my
toys if he wants, I'll even let him come
with us on Saturday afternoons—Oh,

|God! He's only a little boy and if you
want big people we'll go—"’ The voice
stopped and the silence breathed on.

In the bedroom the doctor leaned
over the white faced child. Slowly
he lifted the hand and felt the pulse.
The mother strained forward in her
chair her fingers gripping its arm.

“He's sleeping,’ half murmured the
doctor.” I can't understand it. He
will live now.”’

The boy and girl standing by the
door heard and then slipped again into
the dark hall. They stood closely to
| gether in the living silence and cried.

Gileen Cameron

’

her voice

the

 

 

WHITE with joy by this time—anyhow 1 felt a wit pale. Thinking the
girls might pack intentions of continEWING in this complimentary strain,

/my modesty got the better of me, and |

soliloguized, ‘‘Now what the 'ELLS
the use—I'm going back to the 'OLMSTEAD. Besides | had MacKIE with
me and so was in no danger of being
locked out. At last I won the open air
—I tell you it was a GLADWIN and I
emerged a better if a SADLER boy.
I confess I vaulted a CORNWALL
from sheer exuberant spirits.

ALL-EN all it was a happy experience
and if any of my deeds were misinterpreted I hope they may be speedily

CONDONed and I trust nobody wiil capacity. A further increase will nec
engender any feelings of reMORSE.
—G. A. B.

  
 

————EeEE— EE ——— EEE ees

 

Page three

 

 

s at Mt. A.

 

SODALES CELEBRATES
GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY

Prexy Was ‘Right

By R.S. M.

I am going to be perfectly frank at the
beginning—not that I haven't ever been
perfectly frank before, because I once
told Murray McNeill that his Rules and
Regulations were rather silly and he’s
still mad at me, but I should worry, I
don’t speak to him anymore either.
But as | say, I am going to be perfectly
frank. All of which leads me to making
the startling statement that—after
listening to Wailin’ on the Phi Kapping
the Basketball team, the Hussies’ Howl
Harranging Hall Hash, and Whackey
on the need for Government Reform,
S. C. A. Reform, and Chloroform, his
need for the latter being urgent, I must
admit that I am of the same soung
opinion as Stan himself, viz: ‘This
isn’t such a bad dump after all!”’

Now that that is off my chest you can
all unbutton your Forsythes and breath
easier. Ask the Man who owns One,
Walk a Mile for a Camel—or even go
to the expense and trouble of buying a
Fiske, or any of the other silly things

the ads tell you to do—and see if I care—

not one teeny weeny morsel.

“What is wrong with Dalhousie?”
asks the Gazette and immediately
reams and reams of paper are filled with
pen marks bearing written editorials on
College Spirit, while black glearing headlines glare: ‘College Spirit at Low Level”’
‘Dalhousie Going to the Dogs’ “Dogs
Going to Dalhousie’’ and other Journalistic Jargon Jems which lead one to
believe that we have sunk as low as
Acadia—but not quite.

Why all this Blue Ruin propaganda?
—a Federal election is a long way olf
and at present the politicians tell us that
“Happy is the Province that Finds
itself so Bled’. So why the need of
talking lack of College Spirit?—there is
plenty of it floating around, at least
there was at the Law Banquet.

And then Sodales takes up the howl.
“Student Government is all wet’ they
say. Well so is beer and wine and
ginger ale for that matter. And so the
contraversy goes on. "But Murray
Rankin isn’t such a bad guy after all.
He runs College affairs about as well
as he and Helen can—and anyway the
only thing wrong with Murray is he
can't get any rest at night, through
worrying that he'll wake up and find
himself asleep.

“The Glee Club is punk—it’s like Saturday night at the Hall—a regular
washout” says Tattler. ‘‘The people
don't know how to act’”’. Well, College
boys and girls aren’t supposed to know
how to act—and usually don’t.

“Too much Hash” cry the Hallers—
but you notice that they all come back
after the holidays to the dear old Hall,
fresh from complaining of the foul stew
and fish they got at home in Tignish,
Kedgemakoogie or Cross Roads Country Harbor or wherever the girls keep
themselves when they are not talking
about the grub they get at College.

As for the Basketball team what do I
care how many frat pins they are able
to give away to the girls around the
campus, as long as they have some rare
sport playing the jolly old game and win
for dear old Alma Mater. Tosh!

So in spite of all this talk that Dalhousie isn't what its cracked up to be, |
maintain the firm conviction, that
providing examinations are abolished
and the fees aren’t raised again, I repeat
that good old Prexy was right when he
uttered those immortal words: ‘This
isn’t such a bad dump after all!’’ and I
submit, as the lawyers.don’t say in the
never to be forgotten words of Archibald MacMechan—or was it Jack
Atwood?—‘If you know of a better
hole, go to it!” .

_>- >. —
Growth Shown in
Engineering Dept.

The Department of Engineering represents a development reaching back

 

many years. In tracing its history
;one goes back to the year 1877, when a
Faculty of Science was organized,

teaching pure science only until 1891,
when courses in Applied Science were
offered also, and the Faculty reorganized
into a Pure and Applied Science Faculty.
Several of the more prominent engineers
of Halifax lectured fortnightly in Engineering subjects. The Degree of Bachelor of Engineering (B. E.) was established. This arrangement continued
until 1902. During these years there
were no B. E. degrees conferred and the
engineering students were few.

In 1902 a School of Mines was established and a Course in Mining outlined.
About 1904 a course in Civil Engineering
was added. During the Session 1906-7,
a Faculty of Engineering was estabiished.
About this time the Government of
Nova Scotia projected the Nova Scotia
Technical College. Upon its opening,
in 1909, Dalhousie discontinued its
Faculty of Engineering and since then
has offered the first two years only,
of the engineering course, carrying on

the department as a part of the Faculty

of Arts and Science. So came to an
end a promising experiment, for, from
1905 to 1909, the average attendance
in the Engineering Faculty was 60 and
1’ B. E. degrees were conferred.

In 1922 the Diploma in Engineering
was established. Since 1926 the candidates for the Diploma must have
completed one year of Arts in addition
to the Engineering subjects. For several years there have been from fifty to
sixty students in the department.
This session the number is almost to

essitate enlarged quarters.
W. P. COPP,
Professor of Engineering.

|

+} FOUNDED TEN YEARS AFTER

THE GAZETTE

Debating has been prevalent at Dalhousie throughout its history, and its
place in college life has always been of
outstanding importance and significance.

There were at one time three debating societies at Dalhousie.

The Kritosoplican was composed of

the Seniors and Juniors. The Sophomores and Freshmen formed a society
which was called the Excelsior and a
third group, the Escalapian, was supported by the Medicals.
_In an 1874 issue of the Dalhousie
Gazette an article appears calling the
attention of the student body to the
importance of public speaking and
urging the attendance of everyone at
the meetings of these societies. —

The three groups appeared to suffer
somewhat frequently from a noticeable
lack of attendance. Another article
in the Gazette entitled ‘‘Our Societies’’
gave a scorching criticism to the infidels
who did not consider debating worth
while and deplored the appearance of the
meetings.

Very soon the debating reports in the
Gazette are headed “Our Society”.
In a February, issue, 1879, a meeting
of Sodales Society is reported. It
apparently opened with a combined
literary and musical entertainment, and
the writer closes his article by saying
“It may be said that during the whole
evening ‘all went merry as a marriage
bell’, and that we parted with bright
hopes for the future of our new society.”

Those bright hopes have indeed been
realized by Sodales. In its early days
its activities were perhaps somewhat
wider than they are today. Its meetings
consisted of musical performances as well
as debating, and the Mock Parliament
came under its sway. Today the musical side of our College Life is devoted
to Glee Club, while the Mock Parliament 1s carried on completely by the
Law School. tage

The Society has gathered strength,
but there are many in College today who
do not appreciate its worth sufficiently
to grasp the advantages which it offers
back in 1879, the Dalhousie Gazette uses
such words as “‘O that the students
would come in force to Sodales!”’ That
sentence is not without its force even
yet.

The meetings this year however, were
most encouraging in that regard, and the
attendance of both girls and boys was
indeed sufficient to warrant the statement of those who left the first meeting
of Sodales ‘‘With bright hopes for the
future of our new society.”

ens

'THE TEDDY BEAR

_—_—_—_—_—— -— ——
  
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
 
 
  

TEST

Everywhere one goes” about
campus these days one sees littlé
of seniors. Their faces grave as they
talk. There is an air of general consternation, while every now and again
peals of nervous laughter are heard
Issuing from these assembled groups.
One begins to wonder what it is all
about and finally one plucks up enough
courage to question one of the stately
ones concerning the great mystery.

lhe stately one, robbed of all his pride,
and even his cane trailing in the dust
tells the fearful tale in a hoarse whisper.
It is the awful Teddy Bear Test, of all
those horrors the poor senior must Pass
through, the most feared and dreaded.
No longer does he walk the earth with
head erect, the ‘‘master of his fate and
captain of his soul’’, terrorizing all the
lesser lights around the Campus. He
is less than a cringing worm, a mere
robot with a synthetic smile, sitting in
front of an infernal machine, (The ogre
hovering in the background) and awaiting the worst, his gaze fastened irresistibly on the satirical countenance of the
Teddy Bear, who, to his distorted mind,
seems to be promising greater tortures for
the next day when the poor victim
must return to behold the mutilation of
all he held dear.

At each detail of this dreadful tale,
the bold inquirer turns paler, and finally
creeps away, a broken creature, mentally
resolving to leave college in his second
year and take up train-wrecking for a
life work.

ENE

In Show-off

the
groups

 

LEN WILLIAMS, who last night

HE
played the leading feminine role in
last years Convocation play.

 

 
 
    
  
  
  

hi
ke

F

F

= 9

rte ir:

‘ ee ons.

 

_ spheres.

_ student societies.

- ministration.
_atween the Council and the Senate and,
_in 1926, there was formed the Committee

a r
as
f
j
er.

a ; ey

ie, caer 3 _ FOUNDED _IN 1912

da order to consider properly the}

 

present conditions in any sphere, it 1s
heckies angio a background upon
development of
So, in our Sirtieth
Anniversary Year, should we consider
the development of Student Government

 

at Dalhousie....for it has been a
development.

~ Let us look back to the early years of
this century and picture the student
life of that time. The conception of the
student body as an entity had not arisen.
The University staff was supreme within

and out of the classroom and many
“were the conflicts of opinion between

the students and those in authority.
Athletics were supported by a levy of
$2 collected by the Athletic Club and
the accompaning difficulties of collection and apportionment resulted in
annual over expenditure. Similar conditions existed in the other Societies
functioning at that time. It became

responsibility for debts contracted by

the student societies.
It was felt that there must be a
remedy for this situation but not until

- President MacKenzie’s regime was there

recognized the full need of self-government for the students in non-academic
In 1912, the Council of the
Students was fe
body, representative of all the students
for the purpose mentioned and to act
as a medium between the students and
the University. The difficulty of collection of society fees was overcome by
the University agreeing to collect from

each student, at registration, the sum of

$5 to cover membership in all general
The revenue from
this fee was to be distributed to the
various activities by the newly-formed
Council with the advice of a committee
of business men. By this move, the
Student Body was recognized as an
important entity in University affairs
with an organized medium of self-expression. ,

Space does not permit tracing the
struggle of the students and of their
Councils to “put their house in order”’.

_ Suffice it is to say that the great ex
pansion of student activity, both in
quantity and in quality, soon necessitated a student fee of 57 and has led to an
ever-growing care and economy in adConflicts still arose be
‘of Nine. This body, composed of three
‘representatives each from the Senate,
the Alumni and the Council, and acting
as a unifying force between them, deals
with all student policies involving the
University or its graduates and has
done outstanding work. The following
‘year, the Council changed its number
by amendment from 28 to 12 members
and the smaller body has already proved
its efficiency over the larger unwieldy
-membership. Recently, yearly audits
have been introduced and the reports
submitted to the students; affiliation
has been made with the national council

of the N.F.C.U‘S. in which organization

Dalhousie is playing a more important
‘part each year; outside contacts have
been encouraged. by sending teams
abroad and by receiving visiting teams;
special programmes have been introd‘uced for first year students which have

had the beneficial result of drawing

more of the newcomers into student
activities. A feature worthy of note is
the manner in which the students as a
whole are realizing their responsibility
and are developing their societies as
never before... .notably the Glee Club,
The Gazette, and the Year Book. |

Of necessity, this article does little
more than suggest the course of the
administration of student affairs previous to Dalhousie’s Sixtieth Anniversary Year. During seventeen years of
student government, the Students’ Councils have had their ups and downs but
the net result has been a tremendous
improvement on student administration
as pursued in the experimental stages.
With the Student Body taking an everincreasing interest in its own affairs,

- there should be a much greater develop
ment and consolidation of _ activity
under future Councils. Certainly, the

 heartiest of good wishes for success

o with them from all those which have
eld office in the past.

MURRAY RANKIN,
Retiring President.

TO A CLOCK

O clock, your busy ticking comforts me

When, weary of the hurried life | lead,

I sit beside my desk and try to read.
Your dial of shining silver seems to be
Beaming on all around benignantly,

Like a kind old man who, from his own

cares freed,

Is brightly conscious of another's need,

Desiring no unhappiness to see.

What force within your pent-up springs,

released,
such , boundless energy each

 

 

_ Supplies
e day! 5
Once, when | failed to wind you up, you

To tell the seconds in your cheerful way
And | woke ap to find the room quite

. still, :
While fog hung, thick outside my win
“, | —anon.

 

story of the Stud
Council Summed up
by Retiring President

  

ents’

 

 

Outlines History

 

 

 

 

 

formed as a unifying] wUuRRAY RANKINE Pres. of the Stu
dents’ Council who in this issue tells
the history of the Council.

MEDICAL SCHOOL
HAS UNIQUE
HISTORY

One year older than Gazette

 

The first attempt to form a medical
school at Halifax was made in 1863.
The Board of Governors of Dalhousie
University asked the Medical Soctety
to co-operate with the Board in establishing a ‘Faculty of Medicine’. Several
prominent men were identified with this
proposal, Sir Charles Tupper, Joseph
Howe, and Professor George Lawson
who was for thirty years Professor of
Chemistry at Dalhousie. The Medical
Society found it impossible to co-operate

in this request, largely because of the},

lack of hospital facilities and the dificulties in procuring bodies for anatomical
study.

In December 1867, the question was
again brought up before an interested
group of pioneers in the Medical School
Movement, and after much discussion
with members of the Medical profession
as well as with the Medical Society, a
set of Statutes and Bye-laws were
finally submitted and approved and the
Medical School came into existence on
February 25th, 1868. :

During the first two sessions primary
subjects only were taught at the Halifax
School. However, attendance at Dalhousie was accepted at such schools as
McGill, New York University, and
Harvard and it was planned to send
students away for their final work and
the medical degree. Fourteen students
were enrolled for the first session,
representing Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island.

Encouraged by student response, the
original Medical Faculty decided to
proceed with plans for the formation of a
full school. The necessary legislation
was passed, arrangements were made
with certain of the City and Provincial
institutions for clinical facilities, and
in November 1870, the first session of
the full school began. The first class
was graduated in 1872 when five men
received the degree of M. D. C. M.

In 1874 the Medical Faculty succeeded
in having an act passed through the
| Legislature incorporating a new body,
The Halifax Medical College. This
organization received an annual grant
of $800.00 from the Government and
had the right to confer degrees and
hold property. The plan was not
acceptable to the Board of Governors and
they broke away completely, placing
the responsibility of the School on the
new body. During the next nine years
the Halifax Medical College conferred
degrees independently of Dalhousie,
but the expenses of the school steadily
mounted until different a rrangements
became necessary. In 1889 Dalhousie
again organized a Medical Faculty
and agreed to limit their teaching to the
subjects of Chemistry and Botany,
while the Halifax Medical College
undertook the responsibility of teaching
all other subjects in the curriculum and
agreed to refrain from granting degrees.
This arrangement was carried out until
1911, then Dalhousie bought out the
material interests of the Halifax Medical
College and assumed the whole responsibility for medical teaching.

The Carnegie Report of 1908 recommended the extinction of the Halifax Medical College, along with scores
of others in the United States and
Canada. It was then that real friends
of the School succeeded in convincing
the Carnegie Foundation of the error
and unfairness in their report on the
local institution. As a result, the very
organization which at first advised
destruction, later became the best
friends of our Medical College and
assisted us in getting over one million
dollars for the propagation of medical
teaching.

(Continued on page 5 column 2)

 

; a

 

HOMAGE

It is with a feeling of great pleasure
mingled with a feeling of pride that the
Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Association
extends congratulations to the Gazette
on this its sixtieth anniversary. The
Gazette, the oldest college paper in
America, is the medium through which
student thought and activity at Dalhousie finds expression. It circumscribes every activity on the campus.
Throughout its columns may be found
a definite, unbiased and _ impartial
account of the activities of the various
societies. The D. A. A. C. is proud and
grateful to be remembered among these
societies which this week are paying
homage to the Gazette.

Although not as old in point of time
as the Gazette, the D. A. A. C. can by
no means be classified as one of the
newer societies. It was incorporated
in 1896 under the name of the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club. As is
well known, the objects of the Club
are the promotion of athletics and the
physical improvement of its members.
Every male student registered in the
university is a member of the club,
which, until recent years, when the
financial control of the club was to
taken over and managed by the
Council of the Students, had full power
over all forms of athletics at Dalhousie.
Notwithstanding however, the powers
which the Council so took upon themselves, and the consequent handicap
to the club, it has prospered—in spirit
at any rate—along with the Gazette
and other student organizations.

We may liken the Gazette as the
father, or at least the foster-father of
every organization at Dalhousie. As
such however, the D. A. A. C. is the
grown child of the Gazette. Throughout the course of many years the
Gazette has constructively criticized
and helped to make the D. A. A. C.
better in every way. For the past the
Club is deeply grateful—fot ehe present
it joins with all the other societies in
tendering a word of congratulation to
the Gazette—for the future, the Club
can only hope to prosper along with the
Gazette, and just as the Gazette
promulgates and regulates the flow of
thought, so may the D. A. A. C. endeavor to regulate and control athletics
at Dalhousie.

 

 

Taper - sae —

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

IN COMMERCE
DEPARTMENT

Cameinto Being] 920}

Commercial education of university
grade is comparatively new. It was
not until a few decades ago that the
ever increasing complexity of modern
life convinced men that the old rule of
thumb methods of doing business would
no longer suffice. The successful business man of today is the one who can
analyse causes and anticipate events.
To do this with' even a fair degree of
intelligence, requires an extensive knowledge of many of our modern institutions
and ah understanding of the principle on
which they work. The recognition of
this fact and the belief that university
courses could be designed that would
fit young men and young women to
more readily adapt themselves to the
demands of the business world led to
the founding of schools of business
administration and to the formation
of departments of Commerce in our
Universities. The formation of the
department of Commerce at Dalhousie
is in line with this general movement
and its aims and objectives are as outlined above.

As stated above Commercial education of University grade is universally
young, but at Dalhousie it is exceptionally so for it was not until 1920 that
our department of Commerce, through
the kind generosity of the Hon. W. A.
Black, came into being. Handicapped
as all young departments must be
through lack of facilities and staff
it has nonetheless made satisfactory
progress. In 1923, the first year in
which degrees were awarded, three
candidates were presented. In 1929
ten have similar aspirations. In 1920
eight students were receiving instruction
while in 1929 there are upwards of
fifty. Thus it may be said that the
response of.students here as elsewhere
has justified the action of those who
saw the need for higher Commercial
education and responded to it.

 

 

 

 

 

Nontriond le Cret,
Lousanne, Switzerland.
February 20, 1929.

 

Dear Ben:—Another ‘“‘letter from
Switzerland’! It’s going to be of quite
another character from those running
in the ‘‘Gazette’ now, though. It’s
going to be a long one, I’m afraid, so
take warning, and if you are especially
rushed, lay it aside for a more opportune
moment. But please don’t forget it
until you've thought up all the rest of
this year's editorials, for | want to suggest the subject of one of them. Perhaps though, I’m already too late.
You see, I know that ‘‘Gazettes’”’ were
published in March in years gone by,
but I don’t remember how many. I do
recollect that exams. began about April
16th and that approximately six weeks
hefore, the ‘‘grind’’ began. But as to
how many ‘Gazettes’ the editor was
responsible for during that period, |
don’t know at all. If I’m too late,
then perhaps my suggestion might form
part of your legacy to the new editor,
and find expression in next year’s issues.
It might come better then anyway.

If you'll excuse me, I’m going to use

j both sides of the paper, as my writing
sprawls out more and more as I continue.

First of all, I want to congratulate you
on the good numbers you have published

this year. Especially since the late
November ones, I’ve enjoyed them
immensely. That’s saying a good deal

for the type of material, as I no longer
am familiar with campus personalities.
There have been many developments
since '26, both in the formation of new
societies and int the continuation of the
old. The reports of these are usually
quite interesting; especially, to my
mind the activities of the Sociology Club.
I like the way the editorials have generally summed up any questions agitating
the student mind, and pointed out the
ends to be sought and practical methods
to be followed. There have been some
rather good student letters, | think.
| admired the spirit shown by Jack
Whalen in two he wrote before Christmas. One thing I would appreciate
would be a criticism of the poetry and
prose, especially the former, by the
judges who discern the prizes. They
indicate relative merit when they announce the prize winners, but as to their
absolete value, no word has yet been
said, so faras 1 remember. Some of the
poetry seems to me obviously forced.
Of course I don't know the ages of the
average contributors nor their experiences, but it seems difficult to imagine
that some of the thoughts expressed are
based on personal knowledge. Will the
day ever come, | wonder, when residence
reporters will adopt a new style of
humour! I was one of the Shirreff Hall
contributors one year, and we tried for
that type of column too. Then every
once in a while comes the old ery:
“What's wrong with us?” It’s good to
see it, for it presages more changes and
more progress.

A New Zealand friend of mine, who
saw the first few numbers of the ‘‘Gaz
DAL, GRADUATE WRITES FROM
SWITZERLAND

By Harriet Roberts

 

 

—$_—<$_$_$_<_$_$_$_$_$_$_ $$$

|
ette’’, was interested in the emphasis on
personalities. For instance, the picture
of the president of the Students’ Council
was on the first page, heading an appeal
from him, to support the Council.

In a New Zealand college paper,
personalities would be subdued, and the
students would be called upon to support
their Council as the embodiment of the
college will.

Now then, since you have used the
editorial causes to further good causes,
it suddenly came across my mind one
day that in that way, student interest
might be developed in International
Student Service. It’s so hard to do
anything from a distance of several
thousand miles, because one doesn’t
know the circumstances in the place
where one would like to start activity.
I don't know whether you know much
about I. S. S. or not. Anyway, I’m
going to send you an insight into the
movement. It has not been very
active—rather, interest in its work has
not been very active, in Canada during
the past few years. What has been
done, has been controlled by the S. C. M.
because it was as. a committee of the
N.S. C. F. that the organization began.
[t is, however, independent of the Student Christian Movement, though still
under its auspices.

This summer started a new era for
I. S. S. and everywhere, those interested wanted to win new supporters.
Because of the fact that it is still the
S. C. M. of Canada which raises the funds

        

 

 

    

 

 

—— 7 =

 

— — —

 

S. C. M. in Dalhousie at the first of the
year, asking them to study the work of
[.S.S. as much as they could during the
year, and to collaborate as earnstly
as possible with the central office. I’ve
heard nothing at all from them. As a
matter of fact, except for one little
notice in the ‘‘Gazette’’ the first of the
year, | have seen no report at all of any
of their activities. The National Office
(S. C. M.) has placed on its budget for
1928-29, the sum of $1000 for I. S. S.,
and cannot, naturally, hope to collect
it without the help of every university;
unless some colleges of course, of course,
make up in enthusiasm what the others
lack. I could go on and write at length
about the worth and accomplishments of
I. S..S., and of how it needs the everincreasing support of students all over
the world if it is to continue the development which it is truly called upon to
continue. But instead, I shall send a
history of the movement and a report
of the last conference, hoping you will
have time to read them, or to persuade
your successor to do so.

You see, I. S. S. should be supported
by the whole student body. When it is
considered a protege of the S. C. M.,
naturally that cuts it off from the
interest of a great number of people.
Once the students know what it is,
what it does, and what ‘t plans, then a
volintary interest certainly cannot help
but develope, and a feeling of responsibility for its success been engendered
among a large number.

(Turn to page 5 column 3)

    
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  

ebrates Diamond Jubilee

D.A.A.C. PAYS/GROWTH SHOWN

 

oe,

ae

March 15th, 1929

 

 

Dalhousie Law School
Completing 46th Year

 

Dean of Law School

DEAN JOHN E. READ, who is responsible for the growth of the Law
School in recent years.

 

DENTAL SCHOOL
SHOWS GROWTH

On September ist, 1908, with the
cooperation of Dalhousie Uniyersity
and the Halifax Medical College, the
Maritime Dental College, which, in
1912 became a Faculty of Dalhousie
University, began its first session. For
several years previous to 1908, a discussion of the Establishment of an
institution tO provide a Dental Education for students in the Maritime
Provinces and Newfoundland, to obviate
the necessity of Maritime students
attending Dental Schools at great
distance from their homes, or if a foreign country, was held by the Medical
and Dental Associations, committees
of which were appointed to encourage
cooperation with this object in view.

In 1906, a conference of these committees resulted in an amendment to
the Provincial Dental Act, authorizing
the establishment of the Maritime
Dental College, and, on August 7th,
1907, the Nova Scotia Dental Association adopted a resolution instructing
the Nova Scotia Dental Board to
proceed with the organization of such a
college for which the Associationwould
provide financial assistance.

In April, 1908, the Provincial Dental
Board submitted a plan to the Senate
of Dalhousie University and the Halifax
Medical College, the last institution
agreeing to an arrangement whereby the
students of the Maritime Dental College
might attend lectures and obtain instruction in the Medical College in
subjects common to Medicine and Dentstry.

The University agreed to provide
quarters and establish a Faculty of
Dentistry similar to that of Medicine,
prescribe courses for the Degree of
Doctor of Dental Surgery and recognize
the teaching of the Maritime Dental
College and the Halifax Medical College
in the Dental, Surgical and Medical
subjects required for the Degree of
Doctor of Dental Surgery.

The following extract from ‘‘Dalhousie University, Past, Present and
Future’ published in 1920 expresses
modestly the accomplishments of the
school.

“The Maritime Dental College was
founded by the Nova Scotia Dental
Association in 1908 and conducted by
the Provincial Dental Board for four
years. They demonstrated the fact
that a Dental School in Eastern Canada
was not only possible but a necessity.
Became a Teaching Faculty in Dalhousie University in 1912.

Number of students in 1908-09.. 6
Number of students in 1919-20.. 53
Total number of graduates...... 24
Tesening statin’ 5.0.6) So. yudr aes « 19
Demonstrators in Dental subjects 9

WHAT HAS IT DONE

1. The School was founded by the
Dental Profession of the Maritime
Provinces. It created great interest
among the dentists; this has been maintained, and substantially expressed by
financial grants to the School.

2. It has conducted a four years’
course from its inauguration and has
stood for the highest ideals and standards in the Dominion. All graduates
have passed without failure the various
Dental Boards. Nearly all our graduates have taken the examinations of
the Dominion Dental! Council of Canada
and have passed with high averages.
Both at home and overseas our men
have taken first rank in their profession.

3. It has created a rallying centre
for the profession in the East.

4. The Operative Infirmary is conducted in the interests of the public.

(Continued on page 5 column 4)

      

 

of Continued Activity

TRADITIONS OF SCHOOL OUTLINED

Se

 

—--—
The Dalhousie Law School is much

younger than the Gazette. At this time
when the oldest college paper in North
America is celebrating its diamond
liubilee the school is completing 4 its
46th year of continued activity. Its
45th class will graduate in May of this
year.

During that time the Law School has
done much for the University, for the
Province, for the Dominion and even
for the British Commonwealth. In
other fields of university activity it is
possible to show physical evidence of

rogress and of development: new
aboratories, new equipment and apparatus. The Law School necessarily always has been, is now, and ever shall be,
primarily a collection of books, students
and teachers. Accordingly the history
and the development of the school is
discovered to a great extent in the work
of the men who have been trained or who
have taught within its halls.

The traditions of the School are
largely the result of the ideals of its
founders, of its student body and of its
staff throughout its history. They are
fourfold. j

First—the School has always instilled the ideal of public service as the
finest contribution that any man can
make to his country. The result of
this tradition is evident in the great
contribution the Dalhousie Law men
have made in this and in other countries.

Apart from the members of our. provincial legislatures and of our Dominion
parliament, the graduates of this School
have furnished at least twelve men who
have been premiers of their province
or leaders of one of the greatest political
parties. To Dominion affairs the School has contributed one Dominion
leader and at least four ministers of
cabinet rank. In Newfoundland one
prime minister and at least five ministers of cabinet rank have been graduates of this school. In the provinces
in addition to those already referred to
there have been a large number who
have held cabinet rank in the provincial
administrations. This incomplete account is an indication of the powerful
tradition for public service that has
prevailed and is today maintained.

Second—The Law School has always
stood for a thorough training for the
work of the legal profession. Here
again the only evidence that can be
adduced to establish this point is the
record of its graduates throughout the
world. It has not only emphasized
thoroughness of legal training but has
inculcated a love and zeal for the
principles of British Justice that have
in no small measure aided in the building
up of the newer parts of this Dominion.
In every province of the Dominion the
outstanding leaders of the bar are Dalhousie alumni. In all of the provinces
except Ontario and Quebec one or more
of the members of the Bench are Dalhousie Law School men. In the Dominion courts the resident of the Ex
chequer Court is one of its most distinguished graduates.

Third—The School stands for high
and painstaking legal scholarship. It is
no accident that many of the most
notable contributions to Canadian legal
scholarship have been made by the
Hon. Benjamin Russell who was a
professor at this School for forty years
and that his pupils and succeMsMoos
following in his footsteps. In the past
twelve months no less than five of the
most important contributions to legal
scholarship have been books written
by Dalhousie Law School men. At the
present time both the Editor and
Assistant Editor of the Canadian Bar
Review are men who received their
professional training at Dalhousie. In
1923 the Harvard Law School recognized Dalhousie law graduates as
eligible for admission to that school as
candidates for the post graduate degree.

Since that time at least one Dalhousie
man has done successful graduate work
at Harvard each year. Only last wee,,
in a letter to one of the Dalhousie
law professors, Dean Pound of Harvard
Law School said, ‘‘Thus far the men
who have come to us from Dalhousie
have all done so well that | learned to
take recommendations from that institution at par.”’

Fourth—The School has always held
to a strong tradition of loyalty to the
School and loyalty to the University.
It would be impossible to develop this
point in the space available for this
note. It is only necessary to refer to
the splendid contribution of Law School
men to the Dalhousie Gazette. In the
past nine years five of the editors-inchief have been drawn from its ranks.
By holding to this tradition of loyalty
to the School and loyalty to the Univ
ersity the Law School men as undergraduates have made an outstanding
contribuion to the University life andas graduates have provided the Univ
ersity with its most loyal alumni.

BOOK REVIEW

“And All For Nothing!’ by Herman
E. McFisherbein, Weaple Pub. Co.;
A collection of literary miscellania by a
first-year student, including ‘‘The Facade of the Library’, ‘‘Why I Came to
Dalhousie’, ‘‘My Favorite Character
in Addison’s Spectator Papers’, ‘‘The
Genius of Swift’? and many other rare
tid-bits make this opus something entirely new and original, yet with a certain
flavour of familiarity that will appeal,

 
 
  
 
  
     
   
    
   
  
   
    
        

DESCRIBES
FOUNDING

(Continved from page 1 Column 6)

of issuing and carrying on this paper
“belongs. Unlike many editorial ann“ouncements this must mot be taken
“cum grano salis.”
' “The liberal support that we have,
‘so far, received has induced us, as
‘‘you’ may see, to lay this issue of our
“periodical before you enlarged to
“twice its former size.”’

“For the Dalhousie College Gazette
“‘we claim the honor of its being the
“first Provincial paper whose second
“number has been made in size double
“that of the first. We have no idea

l have ears for prayers as.
Nine Wark the years we had
1 yf them full enough of Life
De aie lone,

only Living makes years long.
= me back the years I’ve had, I

  
  
   
    
   

 

you may take the ones that are to
come.
—R.

ae

IST BETWEEN

 

A. H. MACKAY|Dal Graduate Writes

_ (Continued from page 2 column 6)
+ thing, I told McKAY I JUST was tickoti! ed PINK with his DRY lectures and he
ACTUALLY had the nerve to give me a
- _MEASEALLY 19. Imagine! The
Engineers dance was DITTO pretty
_ HOT—1 MEAN I thought the place
/ was REALLY going to BLOW up when
that FUnny little man took the FLASH— light PlCture. And did you SEE the
" _—__— BOYS step out with RACOONS, MurWi rit ray McNEIL and Prof. MacIntyre and
- Algy Brittain—MY such KOLLEGE
. doings. ‘AN wasn’t ART Murphy's
| shoe the DINKS—MEMber Marg.
a ue and GRAHAM an I don't suppose he'll
pr: do it again for MONTHS AN MONths
/ AN MONTHS—at LEAST I HOPE
» | not. HOCkey was pretty good TOO
only nobody turned out to give the
FS ui Boys a hand. The Class PARties down
at the Yacht SQUadron weren’t WET
by any MEANS EXcept when Miss
- LOwe asked for MORE light at the
_-FRESHIE Soph shin-dig, and did you
~~ ~HEAR about GERRY Godsoe and
-. MARG. COP actually FALing into the
ARM when they went SKATing? This
was the SECond time that GERRY
‘FELL for Marg. and he got a PRETTY
COLD re CEPTion. And the HALFPINT gave STAN a few points on
running the UNIVersity—that’s what
WE NEED here more of this FUNny
STUFF and less EDitorials on College
SPIRIT and POETry—the HALL dances were just as BAD as ever only
-——s&#Prof. GOWanloch lectured next morn-—s “ing in his DRESS suit and the Biology
met > penauct was pretty SNAPPY only
_——sC ileen McAULay MIXED her WORDS
and MY DEAR practically EVERYthing went along FINE except we
missed BENNY out little English
PROF so BADly that the OLD Maids
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
has sent to his wife in HARvard asking
~ to have HIM re TURNED NEXT
-_- year, and My DEAR there are SO many
- OTHer things I have to tell you that
it WOULD ACTually fill a BOOK
but HONestly don’t you think GOING
to COLlege is JUST the BEST fun—
~. IT mean ALmost as much fun as HOOT
going with BETTY or skipping Latin
or Prof. MAXwell staying AWAY or
_ going to SLEEP in GEOLOGY or
gettin y through in MATH 3. 1 mean

UALLY is...) 1!

   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
    
  
     
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
    
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
     
   

 

a

2
fi
*

ae Te AC

 

“Comic edition causes trouble,” says
head-line. There must have been humour
in that.

a
Coming out of English II: Who are
_ you shoying?
I dunno—what’s your name?

me he
Wives are wonderful things. Every
man should have at least one, as a

matter of education.

BIRKS—
have for sometime enjoyed
the distinction of making
all Dalhousie Class Insignia,
and trust their efforts wil
merit a continuance of this
business.

———
KS & SONS

HENRY Bi rereD

HALIFAX

 
    
    
   
 
        
     

  

 

         
   
  

 
 

  

  
          
    
 
 

| Diamond Merchants

1 PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS
i Small Musical Instru| ments and Victor Records
‘| We invite you to join our

J} FreTion LENDING LIBRARY
: * f - 2cents per dey
| MeDonald Music Co. |

 
    
     
      
    

 
 

   
  
 
 

 

1| Our H Standard
| makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive
SUITS, OVERCOATS
a FULL DRESS and
|| TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

: | 2 MADE TO-MEASURE
{Tip Top Tailors
| STUDENTS’ TAILORS
WAY BUILDING

 

     
 
  
 
 
   
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
      
   
    
 
   
  
  

“of stopping here however.
“esy, and it remains with the public
“to verify us, that in a short time our
“Journal will consist of twelve pages.”

We proph
This prediction was not fulfilled,

however, until Volume VII started in
November, 1874; the first two pages
and the last two, being then for the
first time filled with advertisements,
instead of the single last page of local
advertisements
Volume II, November 29, 1869.

which came in with

On the tenth of this November, 1869,

a meeting of the students was called
to consider ‘‘the practicability of issuing
a paper in connection with the University. The late Professor Hugh McD.
Scott ‘‘was unanimously called to the
chair, ‘
appointed Secretary”’.
ton said “that in anticipation of this
“meeting he and the other Editors of
“the ‘Dalhousie College Gazette’, feel‘ing that it would be better that the
“paper should be altogether under the
“Control of the students, had agreed
“to resign it into their hands that they
“might have the direction of it and the
“appointment of its editors.”

G. MacGregor
Mr. A. P. See
and Mr.

———$—$<$$<$<___—__—________—_—_—_——_

Medical School
Has Unique History

(Continued from page 4 cblumn 2)

When John D. Rockfeller made his
magnificent gift of $50,000,000 to the
Rockfeller Foundation for improvement
in Medical Education, a sum _ of 5
$5,000,000 was allocated to Canadian
Schools. The President of the Board
of Governors and the President of the
University made a special trip to New
York and brought the situation at
Dalhousie before the proper authorities. A survey of the School was
made and in May 1920 the welcome
news arrived that half a million dollars
had been voted for Dalhousie. This
action was followed by the announcement of a similar gift from the Carnegie
Corporation. These and other welcome
gifts provided for necessary expansion
and in 1925 the Medical School was
formally recognized by the American
Medical Association as a Class A institution.

Our immediate future is limited by
two factors, clinical facilities and money.
Applications for admission to our
Medical Course far exceed our present
accomodations. Additional staff and
teaching equipment is the cry of practically every department of the Medical
School. We must not slip backward’
we should not stand still, we are bound
to progress.

 

R. J. BEAN.

 

Roy Laurence
Pres. Model League

(Continued from page 3 column 2)

attained, said Dr. Tory and proceeded
to describe the various problems with
which the League has already dealt and
which she is solving at the present
moment. The League will - weather
all storms, for, as the speaker pointed
out, its very fundamentals are spiritual.
He saw in this mighty union unmistakable evidence of the work of the Almighty. Surely God does not want
another wholesale waste of mankind
and therefore has given to his children
this means of settling all their disputes.
The speaker's address sparkled with
original humour.

It was his maiden speech in the capacity of President of the League of
Nations Society of Canada and Dr.
Tory expressed his pleasure in having
for his audience the Model Assembly
members.

After the long applause that followed
the speaker's conclusion, Mr. Henry
B. Ross of Kings, Secretary of the
Assembly arose and in an address that
was considered by many to have been
one of the finest student speeches heard
that day moved a hearty vote of thanks
to Dr. Tory. It was seconded by Mr.
R. D. C. Stewart, President of Mt.
Allison Students’ Council. Mr. Risley,
young member from Acadia moved a
vote of thanks to Mount Allison for
the hospitality extended to the delegates. Mr. Don Grant of Dal feelingadded his thanks to that of the former
speaker and seconded the motion.
Mr. Burns of Dal moved a_ vote of
thanks to the splendid hospitality
extended to the lady delegates and
Miss E. MacKay of Acacia seconded the

 

 

(Continued from page 4 column 4)

Cambridge University has developed
a most successful way of managing their
campaigns. Representatives from each
one of the influential societies are
asked to lend their aid to a general
“drive”.

In this way, the whole student
body becomes informed and its support
is enlisted. This method was tried in
McGill this year to a certain extent,
and, I believe, found successful.
good deal of publicity was given to the
matter, and students were given the
chance to become acquainted with the
movement, before they were asked to
help it along.

One thing which is cery important is
that no longer are countries like Canada
only ‘‘giving countries”, an idea which
somewhat damps student ardor after a
certain time, and which has served to do
so during the last few years at home; but
now they can receive a lot from other
student populations, through the growth
of an enormous field of activity, called
by I. S. S. “Cultural Co-operation”.
This is well explained in the booklets
I'm sending. It is the part on which
must be laid a great amount of stress
if Canadian students are to develop
as much sympathy as possible with the
undertaking.

Now, as I started out by saying,
maybe, and probably, it’s too late in
the year to start much in. this line;
perhaps something has already been
done of which I have received no word;
but if the seeds could be sown in the
proper places, then next year they might
bear fruit. If a few students could be
found and brought together, who are
already interested, or who would be
conscientious enough to, study the
matter and do their bit to help the cause,
then a great work would have been
commenced.

I see by the ‘‘Gazette”’ that an International Club has fairly recently been
formed among the students, whose
purpose is ‘to promote a feeling of
friendship between the students of
different countries, races and creeds’’.
Exactly the spirit of I. S. S's. program of
“Cyltural Co-operation,’*a field of effort
developed inevitably from the early
undertakings of the movement. Perhaps in this group could be formed some
staunch disciples. ;

The report of the M. F. C. U.S. was a
very encouraging one. The activities
of this body should do much towards
unifying the university public of Canada
and towards bringing it into contact with
outside student bodies. Why didn’t
you mention Co bv E.,. Ben, in ,your
editorial on the Federation? You said
‘Gnter-imperial and inter-national relations are admirably maintained through the National Union of Students of
England and Wales and the National
Students’ Federation of America,” but
said nothing of the International Federation. Dr. MacKenzie’s report said
the N. F. C. U.S. had taken as active
a part therein as its finances would permit.

I wonder why, in his report, no mention was made of an action taken at the
Annual Conference, which has been
commented upon by the “Canadian
Student’. An editorial in the January
issue of this magazine vigorously condemns the decision of the N. F.C. U.S.”
to exclude American debaters from Canada except once in every five years.”
Does the Dalhousie student body know
of this decision? The alleged reasons
for the decision are the growing tendencies in Canada towards Americanizing
our people. However that may be,
surely the majority of students realize
what a parrow-minded and childish
policy it is, considered in the light of
Canada’s growing participation in world
affairs and the extreme importance of
universal efforts towards international
knowledge and understanding.

As I picture to myself the life at
Dalhousie as it was, and as it must still
largely be, I wonder how many of the
students ever think about the young
people in other countries. I’m sure I
didn’t, I considered the European
student for example, whenever I considered him at all, as very probably a
solemn serious being, very intent on his
studies and much older than we were.

Well, I’ve been taking classes in two
universities since I came over, and my
ideas are not quite so prosaic now as
they were. I don’t mean to imply that
I’ve found the opposite to be true.
Especially here in Lausanne have [
had a chance to see students from
European countries. They are very,
very much like a group of Dalhousians.
One walks into a classroom before the
lecture-hour, and finds small groups
talking busily, others starting out for a
little stroll, sonfe talking to the professor, some sitting alone. During class
they laugh at exactly the same sort of
jokes as the vast majority of our classes
did. As to looks, there aren’t so very
many whom a Dalhousian would call
“foreign.”” In one class I take, there
are two girld, who for looks, dress and
manners, might be the flappiest of
flappers who ever danced in the gym.

And so, when one has seen people of
other countries, talked with them, and
found common likes and dislikes, one
can scarcely any longer consider them
as foreigners and potential enemies.

One day there was an enormous
reception for all the students of the
University, in honour of the newly
motion. Appreciation of the tireless] installed Rector, Hundreds gathered
efforts of Dr. DesBarres of Mt. A. was! for tea in the main university buildings,
expressed by Professor Malcolm Mac-| called the Palais de Rumine. | It is a
Pherson of U. N. B. Among the) veritable palace. The outside is beaudistinguished gentlemen present was, tiful, of light-colored stone, long and
Dr. J. H. MacDonald of Acadia who | fairly low, with twin towers, huge col
J of the
| Provinces.”

lif s

took a very active interest in the work
of the assembly.

The president, Mr. Laurence then
spoke briefly on the work of the first
Assembly. He concluded his very pertinent remarks with the words: ‘‘I hereby
bring to a close the first Model Assembly
Universities of the Maritime

This account would be incomplete
ial mention was not made of the

ton and Sackville Sts

 

   

splendid hospitality given to us all by

 

umns, and vine-covered pergolas. Inside,
a huge flight of marble steps leads to a
beautiful landing, where goldfish play
about in a palm-shaded fountain, and
other staircases lead to museums of art
and natural history. In this landing‘

the students of Mt. A. Truly that
or which is so essential to the splenid theories that brought about the
good-will.

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SHOWS GROWTH

(Continued from page 4 column 5)

Arrangements have been made by
which one chair per day is assigned to
the City School Board as‘a free Clinic
for the public schools, and more can
be done in the future. The School for
the Blind, The School for the Deaf, and
the Industrial School send their children for treatment. These patients are
treated for a small fee. Besides this a
large number of the civilian population
is treated at minimum expense.

5. Oral Hygiene and Preventive
Dentistry are being systematically taught in the lecture room and Infirmary.

6. A good X-Ray equipment has
been installed and is used daily in the
Infirmary and it is hoped may prove of
public service to those who are not able
to meet the larger fees of regular radiologists.

A Dental Research Foundation
Fund is being established by the Canadian Dental Association. Dalhousie
Dental School is designated as the
Research Station for Eastern Canada.
A beginning has already been made.

8. A Post Graduate School for
demonstration of recent advances in
dental practice was conducted in the
Summer of 1919 in cooperation with the
Maritime Dental Association. Fifty
dentists were in attendance. It will be
continued annually.”’

Since 1920 additional equipment, the
establishment of Pre School Age and
Adult Dental Clinics, Dental Services
for children in Charitable Institutions,
an additional pre-dental year requiring
nearly the same matriculation as that
of Medicine; closer cooperation with
the Medical Faculty and the organization of a section of International
Association for Dental Research have
been secured. In cooperation with the
Nova Scotia Dental Association, several
post graduate schools have also been
conducted and at the 1926 meeting of
Canadian Dental Association held in the
University buildings at Studley, prominent clinicians and_ specialists of
International reputation gave demonstrations and lectures.

Additional students have graduated
so that in May 1928 one hundred had
received the degree of D. D. S. The
Faculty is a member of the American
Association of Dental Schools, the
annual meetings of which are attended
by the Dean.

Members of the Faculty as well as
the students assist in public health
clinics, and it is noted with satisfaction
that a good percentage of graduates are
interested in public affairs and that the
spirit of unselfishness, cooperation and
sportsmanship which is fostered and
encouraged in the undergraduate days is
increasing.

The public are deeply indebted to the
members of the Dental Profession for
the establishment and development
of such health service which is very
worthy of support.

One Day

Today I saw the form of death
When someone spoke of years,
Today I counted’all my sins,
And wept some needful tears.
Today | looked at silver coins,
And spoke of charity

Today I asked the Priest of God
To intercede for me.

Today I read the bible through
And smiled a peaceful smile,
Today I learned a simple prayer,
And walked with God awhile.
Today I know my soul has been
Near Heaven in the sky,
Tonight—I know the devil waits
For converts such as I.

 

 

 

 

THE WANDERLUST

Fall is riding the breeze to-night
There’s an urge in the restless air.
I must go out in the morning light,
And it makes no difference where.

A tall white ship, a compass true.
And faith to go till I find,
Somewhere far on the ocean blue
The secret heart of the wind.

Trees have whispered at dusk to me,
Stirred by the trembling breeze.

n raging gale and silent lee,
I have heard the chant of the seas.

I'll follow ever that echoing call

Over the whole broad world

—(We're bound together like David and
Saul)

Until my sails are furled.

 

  

G. W.

and in the corridors leading to the university classrooms, were set out long
tables of delicious sandwiches, cakes
and tea. Throngs of students gathered
round and it seemed as though nearly
every one of the men wore the special
cap of a society; white with a red band,
red with a white band, blue with a white
star, a green tam with a tassel, or any
one of countless others. Some of the
societies gathered together in their own
groups and sang their songs, and loud
cheers would be heard first in one part
of the building, then in another, as the
new Rector smilingly made his rounds
of kindly greeting. That evening the
students held a torch-light procession,
to end the day’s festivities.

It’s really about time I stopped,
don’t you think so? I shall soon.
First, however, I wish to thank you for
having thus let me expound my ideas.
Really there's been no ‘‘let’’ about it,
has there? I’ve gone ahead and written,
and shall send the letter off right away to
a poor, unsuspecting editor.

There only remains to wish that as
much success shall crown the last month’s journalistic efforts as has so far
attended them, and that for himself
as a student, 1928-29 shall prove a very
gratifying year.

Mose sincerely yours,

I. Harriet Roberts.

Never |

    

  
      
    
     

Visit Qur Accessory

Our New Department
on the Ground

JENSEN & MILLS
Spring Garden Road

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours

Cut Flowers & Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets.
do Table Decorating.
only members of the T. F. D.
Florists.
to all parts of the world.

 

2SHOPS

LORD NELSON HOTEL

23 SPRING GARDEN RD

CENTRAL—The nearest Bar.
ber Shop to the College.

SERVICE— Always experienced
barbers at your service.

Special Bobbing Parlors

A. PUBLICOVER

EASTER SUIT CLUB

“YOU NEVER KNOW

Roxy’s Clothes

 

SMOKE A

    

NOTICE!

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO
STUDENTS

SUITS & OVERCOATS
CONDONS

MEN’S STORE

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

Shop

    
   
 

 

 

Floor.

     
    
   
  
       
       
    
    
      
     
        
   
  
 
 
   
     
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
    
   

CO., LIMITED

 

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

 

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

THE HOME OF

Wealso
We are the

We can wire Flowers

YELLOW CAB

_ LIMITED
SAC. 4444

The Rosery

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

 
 
 

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

 

Ha
STUDENTS

Text Books

For Ladies at

 

 

23 Spring Garden Road

“JOIN OUR” Note Books
Loose Leaf Books

Now Forming

Stationery, Etc.
YOUR LUCK”

Full particulars at

T. C. Allen & Co.

SHOP 124 & 126 Granville Street

154 Granville Street

  
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
      
   
    
   
   
   
   
     
      
    
 
 
   

$1509.35

and Travelling Expenses
is a “tidy sum” to draw for your
time during Vacation-months,
That is the amount

W. G. JOHNSTON
Meds. 3-T-1,

University of Toronto
drew from MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE during 1928-Vacation,
as a member of our Summer
Sales-Staff.
YOU can also benefit from the
same Opportunity to turn Vacation-months into dollars, We
will gladly explain our plan, and
show you the way to enjoy your
Vacation and turn it to profitable account.

The Work is Congenial—Territory can be Arranged—Reasonable Salary and Actual Travelling Expenses Guaranteed.

You will receive training in your own locality with a competent supervisor.
COMMISSION and BONUS on Production also PAID

WRITE
for particulars

‘ne RES
The New Home of
MACLEAN’S

Student-Sales-Manager
dnd. interolaw MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE
NOW 153 University Ave., Toronto }

_——————————————————____........._______|

IS SOLD
Suna Maange «= 6G ON MERIT ONLY

  

 

 
       
    
  
 
   

va *
> Y./ ae *
Be a ees ae oS) tea
: ££ iE 7
i" lL
— ef ‘ ;
- ees rs
i FVbgFre
q w
wr
y

   
 
  
 
 
  
   
 

> |

iree | Mayer thriller, coming to the Majestic
ion;| Theatre Monday. Chaney plays“ ead
the | Legs Flint”, the African ‘‘white voodoo’
elp| in the picture. The early scenes show him

moustache in eleven

  

  
  
    
 

 

_ MAJESTIC NOTES

Lon Chancy donned his first false
n years when he
layed the stage magician in ‘‘West of

anibar,” his new Metro-Goldwyn
 

  
 

Prof-| him in his youth as a stage magician.

 
  
 
   
  
 

logy. | his stage magic in the wilds of, the
3 B * (
subdue the natives, the savage devi

“more is, so that
last year three men obtained High:
‘Honours. It may be wor ‘cere
hat all of these men have obtained
3 | ing their

    

a

   

 
       
  
    

     
 
  
    
    
 
  
   
 
 

» the main business of the
hn born and is likely to
teaching of the Classics, it will be
’ ‘Balhiousie grows to make
more provision for ie investigation
_ by members of the staff and for a greater
variety in the opportunities offered to
advanced students. The great need
tae OF the gsieincen? in addition to the
> need for a larger staff which is shared
oy other Departments, in order to allow
the teachers more time for study and
investigation and the students larger
___ @pportunities for more carefully superae deed work, are: (1) better preparation
fs on the part of students

 

= Pree

 
  
  

  

'
bi 4,7}

   
 
 

entering Dal
 
 

| a Greek; and (2)
eee stantial endowment for the supFs, t of a fund for the purchase of
Classical books and periodicals. A
great deal of valuable work in the
- * Classical field is being done on both
sides of the Atlantic, and the results
of this work are being published all the
time. In order to keep abreast of the
times it is necessary for the - tf
have-access to at least a number of,
' % presentative books and magazines.
sical studies are concerned with
matters that lie at the root of European
civilization, and touch the life of today
‘on every side. The field is inexhaustible in material of interest, and
the entrance to that field is'only to be
gained by hard work. The Classical
Decarincat of Dalhousie is after all
- trying to do what it has always tried
to do, namely to show the students of
each generation how to do that work
ee so that we may pass on our heritage
unimpaired to our successors.

E. W. NICHOLS.

  

—

   

  

   
   
  

    

     

\ ¥
ey ' ee me

THE CANADIAN
_——- CHARACTER

> 7 :

   

 

A farmer and his two sons stood in the

barn door where they had taken shelter
from a hail storm. The storm had come
with characteristic suddenness from a
- sunny sky and now raged with vicious
fury. An hour before, a great field of
Marquis wheat, the result of a season’s
our, the promise of toil rewarded,
oe waved in the sunlight, a ‘golden sea
= billowing before the wind and filling the
air with a pleasant rustle. The three
watched in stoical

a =
gf a
= :

La

silence as the wheat
went down before the fury of the storm,
a broken and battered mixture of mud
and straw. The cloud passed over
and the sun shone down hot and,
piercing, melting the ice-drifts and
covering the barn-yard with a sea of
water. The old man roused himself
straightened up wearily and sighed:
“Well boys! Better get up the horses;
sooner that’s turned down the better.’’
Such an attitude is characteristic
of men who struggle with nature.
Adversity is the common lot of the
pioneer and Canada is still a land of
pioneers. We have great cities which
grow larger every year but millions of
Canadians are at grips with nature.
On the prairie and the hill farms of the
East; in the rocks of the Laurentian
Highlands and the great reaches of the
North, on the wild Atlantic and on the
Pacific, Canadian men and Canadian
_ women are shaping the destiny of the
nation. Continued adversity develops
ac of pessimism. Where there is
little reason for hope, hope dies easily.
But fickle nature is kind to the Canadian. She rewards lavishly though
; she punishes severely. The farmer when
he sows his wheat knows full well that
the chances of success are about equal
to those of failure. The fisherman
who sets out for the banks can not
be sure of his return. Prospectors have
[ela the wilderness poor men and
have come Wesker
_ There is a dogged optimism in the
_ Canadian which simply will not re' _ cognize defeat. The farmers in a
; _hatled out area do not stop to bemoan
_ their loss. They get to work and
If

 
 
  

| prepare for another try next year.
| a there tan be a Canadian characteristic
it is this spirit of optimism, rising from
the ashes of ruined hopes and looking
_ ahead to the success that is just ahead.

kh open apni that closed the gap
at Ypres in the face of a new and

 

     
   
    
  
 
 
  
 
    

he cri le enemy, invisible and torturing—
and kept it closed. It has made the
_ Canadian known the world over.

ren
s

 

_ | MACLEOD, BALCOM

1)

 

Morris Street
eee
ng Street

&.

Mi

    
  

heal rg fh
yf 34

y

 
 

. te | . a ro : ote ,
ect ard, | Stee

 
 

sway. Lionel Barrymore, Mary Nolan,
Wiggsier eames and others of note appear.

pta vengé and
be worth noting. Af, ]
his wife’s affections and who caused him
to be permanently paralyzed from the
waist down.
causes his death, but the tragedy engulfs
himalso. |

  
   

vicinity of the prison.

‘ing, Sally Rand and William Tooker.

\that has made theatrical history. See
|| watch

The later scenes show him working

Congo in Africa and using it to

= Ea.

ippers, and bring them under his

 
 
    
 

e picture is a grim traegdy of relove. Chancy goes to
rica in search of the man who stole

He finds his enemy and

SCENES IN PICTURE FILMED
AT SING-SING.

 

Many of the dramatic and exciting
scenes embodied in the Tiffany-Stahl
production “A Woman Against The
World’ which will be shown at the
Orpheus, Thursday, Friday and Saturday of this week. were filmed in and
about the famous Sing Sing Prison in
New York State. Part of the company
engaged in portraying the principal
roles in this picture made a special
trip to the Atlantic Seaboard from
Los Angeles. This included Harrison
Ford, Georgie Hale, Lee Moran, Charles
Clary, Jim Farley and Wade Boteler.

Warden Lawes the guardian of the
famous “Inn” on the Hudson gave the

visitors from the Pacific Coast every

assistance while they were filming in the
The picture was
directed by George Archainbaud. Others
in the cast include Gertrude Olmstead,
Harvey Clark, Walter Hiers, Ida Darl
CASINO NOTES

 

‘“‘Abie’s Irish Rose,” the play that
ran more than five years on Broadway,
the play that has broken every theatrical long-run record, the play that has
more then 18,000 performances and has
been seen by more than 18,000,000
people, the play that has appeared all
over Canada, the United States and in
14 nations of the world. Now! It’s
in motion pictures. It will be shown at
the Casino Theatre here the first three
days of next week. By all means see the
motion picture version of the play

‘“Abie’s Irish -Rose’’—then you wil
know why it was so tremendously successful.

GARRICK NOTES

 

There need be no greater recommendation given for the attraction at the

; et
Garrick Theatre during the coming
week than that it is from the pen of

DeWitt Newing, author of such outstanding successes as ‘‘Dawn O’ the
Mountains”; ‘‘The Love of Su Shong’’;
*‘Jack of Hearts’, “‘The Baby”, ‘“The
Right Hook”’, and others.

The one in which the Carroll Players
will beseen next week at the Garrick is

“The Rose of Picardy’, a play that WINN ERS

stands alone on a pinacle among the
multitude of plays that touch on the
Great War. It is given the stamp of
approval of New York's battery of
dramatic critics, and under the direction
of Ada Dalton, will be given a presentation that will mean that its effectiveness -will be 100 per cent. Mabel
Grainger as ‘‘Marie Rose LeRonde’”’
will win all hearts.

“What Price Motherhood’’, the play
which closes on Saturday evening of
the present week is one of*exceptional
merit.

SEE NO EVIL

Little brown hands folded

Hiding the light,

Little brown arms shielding,

The little god’s sight—

Behind your hands

Are your brown eyes shut,

Behind your arms

Are thoughts of what?

“See no evil” you sit so quiet,

Your little brown lips are still,

There in the sun, life passes you by—

A queer little god on the window sill.
—Eileen Cameron.

MacDONALD
FORSYTHE
College Mens’ Overcoats
$15. to $30.

119 Gottingen St. - Phone L 142

 

 

      
   

@

   
  
   
  
  
   
    
    
   
   
  
   
    
  
   

Scatter Sunshine

With

Greeting Cards

Why write a letter?
When a card will say it
better.

Sentiments suitable humorous—
Serious or friendly for the Birthday—Anniversary — Wedding or
Sympathy—Cute little cards to
tuck in the gift—a card to cement
that friendship.

_ A Card for Every Occasion
FARRELL’S

For
Greeting Cards
446 Barrington Street

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

    
 
  
 
  
 
   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CO-ED WRITES

HOME

Dear Pop:—Hope this won’t fizz on

 

you—I got your letter yesterday morning but didn't open it till last night.
Was afraid you might forbid my going
to rink. Gee, but it was swell!
swelled all over today—my modesty
prevents me being more specific.

I’m

Went to Glee Club last night. What I

mean is I studied all evening and just
went in time to see the gymnastics, a
few other short acts and the play.
I only stayed to dance half an hour,
too. A fellow who danced with me
|| said he never had such a dance-_before.
But I’m sure he was ‘putting it on too
thick’ (that’s college slang for what
Aunt Ethyl means when she says your
‘joshing me’).

This morning my biology teacher

asked me if I knew anything about
amoebas.
but that we used to have one back
home only the i
My answer seemed to please him.

I told him I never had one,
wheels came off it.

Tell Mom she needn't wash those

chiffon stockings but to be sure and
send them with the cake.
now.

I need them

Say pop, I believe I’m collegiate

already. To be collegiate you have to
be unconyentional—do something that
common, ordinary folks would never
think of.
preacher announced a basketball game

Well last Sunday when the

I gave a college yell. The girls all say

I should be in Dartmouth the inference
being that I would be a good cheer.
leader for that big American college.
I’m collegiate? Andhow!

Grandpa Hector wanted me to get

him a copy of ‘What Every Young

Man Should Know’. They didn’t

have it at T. C. Allen’s and they said it

was a hard book to keep in stock,
but that ‘“‘How To Look Sheiky’’ would
interest my grandfather just as much,
so I am enclosing that.

But Papa you really should be more
careful of your spelling. You spelt
“wiskey’’ with an “‘h’’ in your last letter.

It is really just too awfully mild in
Halifax. If it is this warm in Ecum
Secum you will soon be able to take off
your outside windows and heavy underwear.

I have never forgotten your advice
about having nothing to do with boys
and cultivating a nice girl friend. I.
discovered one by accident the other day
Her name is Esther, and she has the
sweetest smile. I'm sure she will be a suitable playmate. And there’s a fellow
with the ‘prettiest—but never mind
I'll tell Mom when I write her.

Gee, Pop, you know that nice wrist
watch you gave me for my birthday?
Well I fell at the rink yesterday and
broke it. And Pop you know what my
allowance is? Gee, how I liked that
O Gee, Pop! I’m studying hard
lately, too.

I wish you could live at Shirreff Hall

too, Pop. You would be so popular!

The girls are crazy about anything ||

 

A BARGAIN AT
$25.00

Chev. Touring

In good condition

Atlantic Motor Sales

Dondonald Street

 

FROM THE
START

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS, CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

Gauvin& Gentzel
Photographers

&

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone “Sac. 692

|
|
|
|
|

   
  
  

  
   
      
      
  
  
    
   
    
 
 

    
      
   
 
  
  
  

You Mast
Have Rubbers

Try
“LIFE-BUO’” Brand
The Arist-o-crat of

  

Rubber Footwear

   
 
  
    
  
 
  

“ Tuttles

Spring Garden Road
Barrington Street
and Dartmouth

 

    
 

  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 

masculine. And it’s so romantic, too!
They call dinner, lunch, (1 think it’s
a light lunch) and tea is dinner. Breakfast is always the same. We girls have
fun, too. When we are good we are
allowed to play checkers and dominoes
but when we misbehave we have to eat
hash. You know what you used to feed
our Plymouth Rocks? Well it’s like
that only there’s more shell in it.

You needn’t read Marg’s letter.
It’s the same as this. My roommate
and her friend are writing to Aunt
Ethyl and Uncle Jack now.

I’m just dying to send you and Mom
something for Easter, but I hate to
pawn my gold fillings.

Well I must “sign off now. That's]!

radio slang—you won't’ understand

unless you get one.
Don't answer till after you collect
your bills. You'll be too busy.

Toodaloo,
GLADYS.

P. S.—Tell Marg to change pussy’s
ribbon.

This Week
Thursday-Friday-Saturday

NOAH BEERY
and

MRS. WALLACE REID

‘Hel Ship Bronson

Next Week
Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday

ANNE NICHOLS’

“Abie’s Irish Rose’

WITH AN ALL STAR CAST '

    

 

 

 

Halifax Ladies’ College | |

and

Conservatory
of Music

Upper and Lower School
Teachers’ Certificates in Art
Household Science
Music
Tel. S 224

PRINTING
For People Who Care

We keep promises
and Deliver on time.

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
Phone S. 3800-3801

ae

Commercial & Society
Printers

 

George F. Power

€igars, Cigarettes, Osbacco
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description
—Also—
Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX, - N. S.

For Young People as
well as older folk
Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you

Best Sodas
Best Confectionery
Best Meals

The Green Lantern

 

Che
Halifax Chronicle

AND
The
Balifax Daily Star

NEWSY!
ACCURATE!
DEPENDABLE!

  
      

 

 

 

ORPHEUS

NEXT WEEK-Mon-Tue-Wed.

“RILEY THE COP”
FARRELL MACDONALD

David Rollins - Nancy Dexel
Louise Fazenda

THIS WtEK-Thu-Fri-Sat.
A picture of Dramatic thrill and
romance

“A Woman Against The World”

A Dramatic Story of a girl reporter

—with a great cast A sparkling, bubbling - infectious

Comedy

FABLES COMEDY

—_—

Fox News - Variety - Comedy

   
     
           
   
  

Men’s éatonia ‘Shoes

$5.00 pair.

Well made shoes of good quality Scotch grain
leather with goodyear welted soles. Leather
heels. A sturdy shoe for Winter wear! Sizes
5 1/2 to 10 1/2.

 

Eaton’s—Second Floor.

“T. BATON,

O

      

          
         
    

 

GARRICK

REPERTORY THEATRE

   

— $n

ti
— MON-TUE-WED. —

LON CHANEY

IN HIS GREATEST ROLE

‘West of Zanzibar’

THE LEATHERNECK”

 

 

—ALL NEXT WEEK —
CARROLL PLAYERS

Present
A BIG

‘THE ROSE 43%
OF PICARDY”’

— NOW PLAYING —

“What Price Motherhood”

 

    
  
  
       
     

‘If You Want To Sea Wel
SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y.M. C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX, N. S.
essences

 

 

 

 

THE SONG SHOP LTD.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC

22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, : : Canada

 

       

OUR SELECTION WINS OUR ELECTION

Easy rests the head that wears our Hats,
Broad the shoulders in our new French Coat,
And Shirts and Ties in Dixie Blue win votes,

 

 

We sell them to the College and its frats.

 

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP |

30 Spring Garden Road

Special 10% discount to Students
—— :

 

 

 

ij
$454.30

and Travelling Expenses

—
ED faa

were paid for his services as
uy Summer Sales-Representative of
i MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE, during the Vacation of 1928, to
Bi H. B. BURCHELL
Tf Meds. 3-T-2

University of Toronto

Every Student has the Opportunity right at hand to earn
next Term’s expenses. Vacationmonths may be turned to profitable account, by joining the
Summer Sales-Staff of MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE.

 

The New Home of
MACLEAN’S

The Work is Congenial—Territory can be Arranged—Reasonable Salary and Actual Travelling Expenses Guaranteed.

You will receive training in your own locality with a competent supervisor.

COMMISSION and BONUS on Production also PAID

WRITE

for particulars
and interview

NOW
————————————————————————————————————————

MACLEAN'S ¢, ,!8S0%
CANADA'S NATIONAL MAGAZINE”

ON MERIT ONLY

Student-Sales-Manager .
MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE
153 University Ave., Toronto

 

 
