  
  
 
  
      

 
 

Pi,

*

   
   
   
  

_ EXTENSION

a

s
aiAl
iT

ro
YS
we AS

+

=. 5

‘

wa

LECTURES
UNDER WAY

Art Museum

DRS. RITCHIE AND FAL; CONER ON SCULPTURE
AND PAINTING

eet Three lectures of the University
Extension Course in Sculpture and
Painting have been already given b

“Dr, Eliza Ritchie and Dr. J. W. FalmA coner and will be continued every Friday
aE afternoon at 4.30 o'clock in the Fine
nae Arts room of the MacDonald Mem
oe orial Library.
3 Dr. Eliza Ritchie in the opening
lecture on ‘‘The Spirit of Greek Art”
stressed the fact that’ in her belief
sculpture was the most representative
of the arts of Ancient Greece and the
medium which expressed to the greatest
degree the peculiar genius of the Grecee ian people. This genius which is
apparent in Grecian architecture, painting, music, drama and philosophy, to
everything to which the Greeks gave
their attention, consisted in essence of a
real power of expression of their rare
sensitiveness to beauty, combined with
a dignified restraint which made their
product classical. Dr. Ritchie then
went to show the crudities in the
archaic forms of sculpture and traced
its growth until it reached perfection
+ in the art of Phidias, Praxiteles and
Polyclitus. Referring to the study
of art at Dalhousie, Dr. Ritchie hoped
that the day would not be far distant,
vhen the University would have a

_ museum of art on its campus. _

In the second lecture, the last one
to be given on sculpture, Dr. Ritchie
spoke on “Italian Sculpture of the
Fifteenth Century”. She showed that
a new birth of sculpture which closely

approached the classical heights of the

reeks took place in Northern Italy

in the days of the Renaissance. First

at Pica and then at Florence, sculpture

| began to flourish and a type of Italian

| art evolved through the work of Giotto

Donnatello, the della Robbia and their

followers. But the greatest genius of

them all was Michael Angelo, whose

originality was only equalled by his

: genius, which made such originality

! possible. Dr. Ritchie referred to the

5 e depiction of children in Italian art,

a feature which distinguished it from

the Greecian. In this connection he

spoke of the Cantoria and its distinguished features.

‘ ates

The first lecture on painting was
given on Friday last by Dr. Falconer
in the lecture on “The Earliest Beginnings of Painting’. At the opening of
his address Dr. Falconer declared the
three requirements of painting were

Pe unity, technical correctness and charrr acter. Pointing to primitive forms of
paintings he showed the lack of one or all
of these requisites. In considering the
art of Egypt, he stressed its value as
representative of pictorial painting and
showed that much of our knowledge of
the life of Egypt was obtained from this
source. Going on to the painting of
Greece, he spoke of the development of

 

Sipe painting from Polynotus, Agatharchos,
Sp. Appolodoros, Zeuxis, Parrahasius and
9 Nikiss. Applles he stated was conieee: sidered the greatest painter of Greece
re) and his contribution to the art of
Cease painting was immeasurable.

th

.

ee

| : s / *e
| a The Dal Glee Club Broadcast is
ie becoming (if we can believe all the
fe) 3's stories, we hear) quite a popular hour

o over ti. Sunday evening
“is according to Major Borrett there was
re in the ante-rooms one of the largest
| crowds ever present including S. S.

‘Singer director of the orchestra. Numerous letters are being received every
week congratulating Dalhousie. The
programme opening with a March was

_as follows:

C. H. N. S. March, Scotch Selections,

.  tz,Selections from Carmen, Mignonette
Overture.’
i.
a
MacLennan (as soloists accompanied
by the orchestra. Ave Maria, Gavnod
with solos by Gordon Grant, Bary Lane
Co send Jean Fraser, violin. Delta Gamma
ca . beedly  Y re ' pit mt “ ,
Co

Pay 7 ¥

  

7

AS ieee
} yee i. c rr = Ae ci vi 7
to be put on at the Majestic, February

a

Ap GLEE BROADCAST POPULAR;
3 GREAT PLANS FOR GLEE

Stoney Point March, Strauss, and Wal- |

Selections from “Carrie Comes to|
College” with Minnie Black and Electa,; The musical programme will take

mes to College’ is going |

Le — —

a

lant Debater
Council Recom-|THE MISSE
mends Year Book AND SAD

Gave $500 Grant

on Campus ? Committee Praised |supyrcr:

SPLENDID FEATURES PROMISED BY EDITOR

Dear Fellow Students:

Two years ago, at this time of year,
the idea of a Dalhousie Year Book was
first conceived. Due to the zeal and
infinite labor of those chosen to make
it a reality, and to the reak support
received from the Student Body and |
elsewhere, the first Dalhousie Year |
Book appeared.

Laboring under the usual handicaps |
attending such innovations, and overcoming great financial obstacles, the
student editors aimed, not at producing
a monumental work, but chiefly at
starting something worthwhile for the
University. Their hope was that their
example would serve as a challenge to
succeeding years to improve upon their
first endeavour. Why not have a try?

‘A capable committee has been appointed which promises us all sorts of
splendid, features in return for our
support. Your representatives on the
Council have unanimously endorsed |
the 1929 Year Book and have backed
the publication to the limit of $500.
But it needs more than a capable committee and a bit of a Council grant to
put it over. It needs the full support
of each and every one of us to give
Dalhousie a Year Book that we may
be proud to show to other universities.

At the price of $2.50, we are offered
a book full of the features of our college

| life at Dalhousie for half to one quarter.

of the price charged at other universities for similar books. Let us all
show that we are back of it and not
only sign for one at once....but also take
it when it is printed for you. ,

The Council will head the list... .will
you follow?

Counci! of the Students

Per M. M. Rankin, Pres.

MIDLOTHIAN CLUB
GROWING IN
POPULARITY

The Midlothian Society held its
first post-Christmas meeting at the
home of Madelaine Page on Wednesday
evening with the President, Jessie
Gladwin in the chair. Miss Margaret
Lowe gave a talk on James Elroy Flecker. It wasa most happy choice of subject.
Flecker although one of the most
brilliant of the group commonly designated as the ‘‘War Poets” appears to
be very little known, while the fame of
his contemporary and friend Rupert
Brooke has spread everywhere. Unfortunately for the students the only
work of Flecker’s in the Library is his
play ‘‘Hassan’’ while Brooke's poems
are not to be found at all. Miss Lowe's
talk was charmingly informal, interrupting herself frequently to read a number
of his poems and some choice hits from
“Hassan”. After Miss Lane had finished speaking some lively discussions
took place among the members and
then Mrs. Page gave the Club a lovely

 

 

       
  

14th and between that and the end of
the year the following nights are planned at the Gym:—John Shaw’s show,
“The Show-Off"’—the convocation play
with the same cast as last year,—-Newman Club and Junior Class nights.
But plus all this Sina Singer is planning
something intensely new and which
should take tremendously with the
students. On February 22nd. a concert
is going to be given in the Lord Nelson
Hotel by the Glee Club Orchestra with
such numbers as these on the program.

“Unfinished Symphony’’—Shubert.

“Andante” from ‘‘Surprise Symphony’— Haydan.

“Blue Danube Waltz’’—Strauss.

place between 8.30 and 9.30 and from

10 p.m. till 2 a.m. There will be dan
cing with John Budd’s orchestra in

attendance. A committee was chosen

by the Glee Club to act: Mrs. Murray

a Claire Murphy and John
udd.

 

 

oO SS

 

'

s At Sodales’ Trials


  
 

Ly

Pa

a

S PAGE, HEMPHILL,
DLER TO DEBATE
ACADIA

A Strong “Geam

“RESOLVED THAT COLLEGE WOMEN SHOULD

LOOK FORWARD TO A CAREER IN BUSINESS OR IN
ANY OF THE PROFESSIONS.”

LEADER

 

Madeline Page to lead girls against
Acadian debaters

W ard of Masonic
to Train Dal.

Bandsmen

There will be a rehearsal for the
Glee Club Band in the Munro Room on
Friday evening Ist of March at 8 o'clock.
Mr. Ward the leader of the Masonic
band is going to conduct this branch
of the Glee Club music. Anyone who
can play any band instrument and who
wants to get good practice besides the
glory, should show up Friday evening.
This band will play during the season
for the Dal activities in the skating
rinks and since we have already seen
how the music encouraged and enlightened the football matches, it really
becomes a duty to Dalhousie. So
come to these practices and turn out
something worth while at the hockey
games.

 

  

Someone has defined a university as
‘a clearing house for ideas.’’ Granted
that this definition is open to criticism
it nevertheless contains a nucleus of
truth. An undergraduate who passes
through four years of academic life
without ever once thinking himself into
a cold sweat over some perplexing
problem, or without ever once feeling
a warm glow, of satisfaction as the
clear rays of truth wash in through the
confusion-darkened window of his brain,
has demonstrated his philistinism beyond
repute. The generating modifying, and
perfecting of ideas constitutes a vital
aspect of college training, and the
ideal medium of exchange for these
ideas is through the college paper.

Few readers of the Gazette can fail
to be impressed by the distressing
infrequency of thoughtful articles of
what one might call the review type.
Verse, ostensible humour, and fiction
all have their devotees. The pens of
those who write up sport features and
society functions are like the widow’s
cruse, never dry. No doubt it is an
exaggeration to describe the Gazetle as a
bulletin of college activities: but the
writer's impression of the Gacetie is a
great desert of mediocre report and
comment broken all too infrequently
by a refreshing oasis of verse, a stimulating article, a story or two. What is
wanted is less of the ‘‘a good time was
had by all’ type of writing and more
contributions of real merit. The former
are necessary and accupy considerable
space in all college papers, but they
should not be allowed to preponderate,
for the latter are the sive ua non upon
which the merit of our paper is judged.
The former are the »merest esphimera,
they perish in the making: the latter
possesses intrinsic value, through them

_—

 

Madeleine Page '29, Gertrude Hemphill '31, and Lillian Sadler '31, compose
the Dalhousie Girls’ Debating Team
for 1929. The Girls’ Debating Trials
were held on Thursday, January fourth,
in the Munro Room. The subject for

discussion which is that to be debated

with Acadia is: ‘‘Resolved that college
women should look forward to a career
in business or in any of the professions.”’
Gertrude Hemphill was the first speaker.
She defended the affirmative side with
vim and vigour. With Carlyle as an
authority she showed how useless a
woman who has no work of her own
can be. Miss Hemphill’s voice is
excellent, her manner pleasing, and her
argument effective. She was followed
by Mina Gibson ’32 who spoke in
favour of the negative side. Although
her arguments, when not. entirely
lacking, were futile, Miss Gibson's
delivery was to be commended.

_ Madeleine Page, supporting the affirmative, was the next to speak. With
admirable skill she attacked the arguments of the first speaker and refuted
them. On the fact that her speech was
impromptu, built on the arguments of
her predecessor, Miss Page is to be
particularly congratulated. She showed
herself to be a quick-witted, logical and
fluent debater. Her successor was
Olive Field '29 who also favoured the
hegative. She argued that women
should not have a career rather than
the exact subject, but she related her
argument to the resolution. Miss Field
has ‘‘the makings’’ of a good debater.
The final speaker of the evening was
Lillian Sadler, whose speech eas excellent in every respect. With convincing directness, and solid argument,
Miss Sadler ably defended the resolution; her presentation was all that
could be desired, and one could not
help being impressed by Miss Sadler’s
real ability as a debater.

The judges, Dr. G. E. Wilson and
Dean Read, after a short conference,
gave their decision as follows:

Madeleine Page, Leader.

Gertrude Hemphill and Lillian Sadler,

Dalhousie is assured of having an
able team to represent her in the forthcoming debate against Acadia.

 

There will be a rehearsal at
the Majestic on Sunday afternoon at 2 p.m. sharp for all
concerned in ‘‘Carrie Comes to
College’’.

 
  

!! LET THE DUMB SPEAK !!

(Being a criticism and plea

 

undergraduate thought attains articulate expression and gives itself to the
world. Gazette readers have been fed
on trivia long enough.

The argument is put forward ad
nauseam that a paper must publish
only what its clientele wants. The
chief interest of ‘‘Gazette’’ readers is
insport. Therefore sport articles should
predominate. There is another way
of looking at this question. Many
hold that the function of a paper is
higher than this, that its greatest mission
is*to shape current thought not to
pander to it. One has only to recall
the influence once willed throughout
the Maritimes by Joseph Howe in his
paper, ““The Nova Scotian,”’ to realize
that this is true. However that may
be, the writer has no quarrel with sport
or sport write-ups. There is ample
room for articles on sport and articles
on historical, political and economic
subjects in the same paper. But the
assumption that contributions of the
latter type would not command the
interest of the student body is without
a little of evidence. Indeed if the
existence of departments of Commerce,
Political Science, History, and Economics may he cited in support of this
contention, tangible proof is not lacking
that a lively interest is taken in these
subjects, for these departments are
among the most popular in the University. The interest should generate
thought; this thought should generate
articles; and these articles should appear
in the Gazette.

_ The field is wide. Material is plentiful and easy of access. The old
question of university federation in the
Maritimes remains still unsolved. A

(Continued on page 3)

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY Ist, 1929

 

LX LLM LLL LLL ttt
SS

tla

ira
ge
ire

{11 LN

MI

  
  
  
  

 

to College
A Gala Gvent

Valentines Day

MRS. G. FRED PEARSON,
W. GRAHAM ALLEN, W. E.
STIRLING, SINA SINGER,

CAPABLE COMMITTEE

What is probably the biggest event
of the year in the calendar of the Glee
Club, will take place at the Majestic,
on Valentine’s Day, February the 14th.
On this date the musical comedy
“Carrie Comes to College’ will be
presented to the public twice, in a
matinee and an evening performance.

The production of the show is in the
capable hands of four persons, Mrs.
G. Fred Pearson and W. Grahan Allen
are taking care of the singing chorus |
and the libretto. Both Mrs. Pearson |
and Mr. Allen have had much theatrical |
experience. Mrs. Pearson in various!
amateur musical productions and Mr.
Allen at Glee Club and as director of
last year’s Convocation Play.

Mr. W. E. Stirling, Dathousie’s!
popular physical director is looking’
after the dancing chorus and Sina
S. Singer, President of the Glee Club|
is in charge of the musical end of the}
production. The Symphony = Orchestra will participate and when you
know this and are told that among the
principals are such singers as Miss
Minnie Black, Fred Jennings and Eric
Found, you. may be sure of a first class
performance,.

Rehearsals for the show are in full
swing and we take this occasion to
remind those who are -participating
that these rehearsals are held every
evening at the Munro Room at 7.30
and once a week, on Saturday afternoons, a full rehearsal is to be held.
It is important if the show is to be the
success it deserves to be, that every one
attend these rehearsals. So come on
you people in the show and do your
bit by turning out regularly.

Dr. GEO. E. WILSON
HOST TO UNICORN
CLUB

The wind whistled on the streets
but inside, by Professor Wilson’s roaring
fire, gathered a group of devotees whose
idol is a Unicorn. It was Monday evening, and a cold one, so that the meeting
was small; but this was all to the
good for Professor Nichols was able to
read his selections to an intimate and
quite informal group, about equally
divided between faculty and students.
Greek poetry was the theme and the
opportunity of hearing an accomplished
scholar read the verses was thoroughly
enjoyed; especially as each selection was
accompanied by a succession of comments explaining it in a few swift words.
To those who have never read much
or any Greek, the soft and liquid verses
seemed to contrast strongly with our
more guttural English, and they were
forced to recognize that the modern
world has no monopoly on_ beautiful
poetry, either in thought or in form.

After the readings a general conversation began which was only interrupted by ‘‘meat and drink’ and

 

 

D Su The Ch

finally by the necessity of returning home.

*

a

 

How it happened I can never tell,
but I know that the moon was pale in
a sky of clouds and the late-fallen snow
down the long aisle of trees was as yet
untrodden by any mortal foot. On
either side of me were the graves of the
people with their stones glimmering
eerily in the white night. And I knew
too, that I felt than as I had never
felt before, that this Land of Sleepers
was not an impersonal place where
rested the dust that had once walked
the ever-lovely earth with a living
loveliness of its own, now long buried
under the frozen earth with only a
few cold lines engraved on stone to tell
the mere outline of what had once been.
It was a place alive with different
personalities, all aware of someone
passing by, as, perhaps, they themselves
had passed by before the iron gates
closed on them for the last time, and the
feet wegy or light, the hearts grieving or
gay, were given over to the supreme

By Florence M. Brewster

a

snow and rain of many years.

“Carrie Comes\JUDGES TO
9| SELECT THREE

MENS TEAMS

Contestants in Oratory and Argument

DR. MACKAY ON MODEL
LEAGUE OF NATIONS

On Wednesday evening, January 30,
the hallowed Moot Court Room, which
has so often resounded with the verbosity of the wise, was filled with the
eloquence of the candidates for the
University Debating Teams. The speakers were all excellent and the audlence exceptionally large.

Before the trial speeches began,
Professor MacKay announced that a
student League of Nations is to be held
early in March, at Mount Allison,

in which representatives from the
various educational institutions will
take part. Professor MacKay outlined

the general scheme of this model league

{and urgently requested all interested

to meet him on Tuesday at 12 o'clock
when he will explain fully the proposal.

Arthur Patillo the first speaker,
upheld the Resolution: ‘Resolved that
this house is opposed to all forms of
censorship”. He deplored this method
of blinding the public, and clearly
presented convincing arguments.

P. L. Henley spoke in favour of the
subject: ‘Resolved that war hinders
human progress.” His arguments were
well considered and logical.

Gordon Harris supported the negative of the St. Lawrence Waterways
project. He discussed the economic
aspect and pointed out the danger of
Canada’s losing her birth-right—the
waterways.

William Jost, Freshman, supported
the affirmative of the same resolution.
This is Jost's first appearance on Dalhousie’s debating platform, and his
pleasing bearing, and well presented
arguments made a favourable impression.

Gordon Cooper made a forceful
speech in favor of the censorship resolution. He argued in a clear cut
manner and shows experience in debating.

C. J. Greene, denied that war hinders
human progress. His’ arguments were
good and his speech contained sparkling
wit which received good approbation
from the audience.

Ed McLeave spoke against the St.
Lawrence Waterways. He dealt with
the economic side of the subject, giving
the history of the proposal.

Frederick Forbes spoke against the
resolution that war is a hindrance to
progress. Forbes already possesses a
Debating D. He was much _ vexed
that so few members of the fair sex
were not present, as they have had so
much to do with the causes of war.

Mr. Louis Dubinsky took the
affirmative of the same subject, as did
George Mahon. They both emphasized
the ultimate futility of war in deciding
anything, and deplored the loss of
human life which might otherwise be

spared.

Messrs. L. O. MacDonald and T. O.
MacDonald both spoke on the St.
Lawrence Waterways’ project. .The

latter speaker had a clear idea of the
economic problems involved and baeked
all his arguments with statements of
facts and figures.

Mr. Alec O’Hanley said: ‘‘War is
progress.

not a hindrance to human

    

urch Dard SS)

    
    

 
 

hh es ee ee ee
peace of lying very still while the world
went by above in its accustomed way,
and the moons and the seasons came and
went,

I thought that I, too, would be very
happy there, if the comforting earth
were warm beneath the snow, and I
could keep within my heart from the
great forgetfulness but a little snatch
of the beauty I had dreamed into a song.

While I was thinking these things I
turned down a little side road, led by
some unaccountable force within, and
stopped beside a grave whose stone was
sunken down, the ornate angel and
simple words upon it dimmed with the
For one
bright instant the moon sailed clear of
the surrounding clouds and | read upon
the small slab these words:

Sacred to the memory of
Virginia
beloved wife of
before I could finish reading the moon

(Continued on page 4)

 

 
, much warmer at Glee Club than at Hockey on these wintry nights,
i Glee Club drew the crowds. The crowds—the rooters. That is

: the crux of the whole matter. The rooters. Rooter-students and
Re Student-rooters make the Life of the Cellege. And the hockeyists

my on writings of all sorts.

. , The

(AS ;
ry i
ae: 4
= a
an} at 4
*

J oS
¢ 4 4 e ¥
on, a

7 i
} :
* ,

 

Ss. a

\ ah, be indifferent?”

| not to blame.

     
    
 

   
    
    
  
 
  

4 Le i a an ' wal i aa rc oe wm, i G ees |

Be ss ot ft ue oa J pees :
Cea tevin cry 8s"
pe eo | ra), eRe ay Tt ee
RSS oe ig OP sy, le ane ras A
; m ai Py ey ee i an i yy ia ®t
J bee phe eis Ai
i a: 1 ee , . 7 i * "fot

Dalhousie Gasette

(Founded 1869)

   

__ Editor
eat BEN GUSS ©
RNES ’M. HOWSE Xe
| | Assistant Business Manager —

R. A. DONAHOE

Sport Editer
PAUL DOYLE

ao. Fy Ba Reporters
ee oor |) GORGE. WHITELEY
Liat . M. BOVYER see FLORENCE M. BREWSTER.
Business Manager
~ §. W. ARCHIBAL
5 Rosebank Ave.

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year

Phone L 2291

 

lhl

Conflicts

a There have occurred several extra-curricular conflicts, which
| —_ ‘have given rise to much unnecessary worry.

| " It appears that two Glee Club performances and two Hockey
e scheduled and played on the same nights. If it is

'

Games were sch

want their rooting. They stand for their rights to. rooters and
vehemently refuse to be treated as step-children in our midst.

| A famous student jurist of the Law School has suggested that

a Conflicts Committee of the Students’ Council function to come to
constitutional or equitable decision in the matter.

Might the Gazette suggest a very plausible and effective way

out? Why not have the Glee Club Band play at all Hockey games?

Presto!
A Transient Trade?

There appears in today’s Gazette a very interesting report of
the Midlothian Society—the girls literary guild of Dalhousie,
Y organized two years ago, simultaneously with the Unicorn, the

boys’ literary guild.

Both these circles fill an important place in the life of this
university—if properly conducted as informal discussion groups

 

i The possibilities are infinite. From two such active circles,
complementary circles might spring up—a philosophical club, an
historical club—there are those here who are interested.

“Oh”, some will say, ‘““why have more societies, when the
ones we have do not function regularly. One whole month
went by before the Unicorn and Midlothians had a meeting and
when they did meet only a few attended.”’

Is there lackadaisical spirit abroad? Must the organizations

- be forced into a position of shouting: ‘Love us or hate us, but do not

The Gazette has been trying to nail down the blame on someome, somewhere. The presidents of the various organizations are
Ipsi dixunt. ‘The members are to blame.’ “Ah!
The members. Who are your members?” ‘‘We have no set membership. At every meeting we see different faces. Only occasionally
do we see the same faces at consecutive meetings.’’—The organizations are doing a transient trade. No set membership!

That is the crux of the entire trouble. There's the rub.

. “Ts there perhaps an organization which has a set membership?”
“Yes,”’ we are told—‘‘The Class”. Every class has its unchanging
membership’—Your classmates—those with whom you are going to
graduate.

Class Organization: what has been the peculiar heritage
of the Class Organization hitherto?

Of course some may object that we are complimenting the
class too much when we call it an organization, suggesting at the
same time that ‘class meeting’ would be more appropriate.

The function of the Class meeting has been like a “‘dance
sandwich”, the first meeting at which a young man and young
woman are chosen to debate against seemingly insignificant sophs
and four years later another important meeting to decide what
heirloom we are going to leave to future ascendants to Dal.

In between there are infinite ten-minute meetings (members
hurry in 5 minutes late with coats on) at which the chairman
decides or his lieutenant makes a motion which is carried unanimously that the ““Dance”’ be left to a committee; Dance Sand-wich!

The Class has become synonymous with dance. (A digression:
Let us not be misunderstood. Every member of the staff of the
Gazette is absolutely silly over dancing and attends at least one
dance every night.and if they don’t they'd like to. However we
state this to show we have no grievances with ‘‘Dances” and if we
have a grievance it is that there are not enough of them: With this
almost everyone will agree.)

A CHALLENGE

Yes the Class has become synonymous with Dance. For
everything except the the dance the class is a conglomeration of boys
and girls: no community of interests. We now have the great
pleasure of being able to point to the source whence may come
salvation.

It is incumbent that every class be the registry office of the
potentialities of its members. It should be a high-class employment
bureau taking pride in placing its members in the service of Alma
Mater. There should grow up a community of spirit—-a sort of
“esprit de class’. Every class should have a registry book and
every member should sign his own name therein, and the organizations in which he or she wishes to be active. Then the Presidents
of D. A. A. C., Glee Club, of Sodales,the Gazette could go direct
to the keeper of the Register and get the very person wanted, for
any particular thing. .

> much good could be accomplished, through the agency of
properly organized class circles.
Business—social meetings could even be arranged in the
evenings. An hour and fifteen minutes to discuss competition
(with other classes.) for literary, debating or athletic honours.
The remainder of the evening for a little dancing.
a Presidents of classes! A call to arms! Get your members
together. Have them register. Find out who’s who. It is in- cumbent on you to do so! It is your duty to Alma Mater to act.
If your member has pride in his class, he will have pride in his
_ Alma Mater. His Class should be his guide to form of expression
_ suitable to his individuality.
__ Presidents boost your members.
lege should be your pleasure to boos

      
 

 
    

t.

Ae yey

   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
    
  
  

And they will boost your

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

——_—_—— es

TALES OF GHE TRAIL

The little cabin was snugly ensconced

in a clump of firs, a stone’s throw from
the half-frozen rapid,
gurgled and croaked in an eerie monotone
as if chiding this frigid barrier that lay

whose waters

in its path to the sea.

It was just growing dark and the
aeolian harps of the forest had struck
a mournful note when the laden Komitick with its frisky team slid down the
crooked trail to the half-buried door.

We had come many miles from Toenippy,

the bare wind-swept muskeg of the
high hand of Northern Labrador, where
the wolves and the deer wage their
feuds in a blanket of waist deep snow.
The cold had been intense for a week
and the moon looked sick, so that we
were glad when the rugged brows of
the table land, now shrouded by whispy
clouds, was frowning on our backs,
while we beat our trail down its lower
slopes. Through rather disappointed
at not stalking any deer, we felt recompensed by our witnessing on_ the
return walk to the dogs,—one of Nature’s remarkable spectacles. On topping a slight rise, Levi, the veteran
trapper who led, suddenly froze, paused
a while, then noiselessly lowered himself into the snow and beckoned to me
with his finger. I stole to his side and
looked over the top; about fifty feet
below the sloping bank was a solitary
caribou, digging into the snow in search
of moss. My hand slipped to my rifle,
then taking a sidelong glance, saw
that we were not the only watchers;
three enormous wolves squat on their
haunches were holding a consultation
on a high bank a little to our right-they too were unaware of our presence.
As we watched, the largest appeared
to be pressing his plan of attack, for
his tail swung nervously from side to
side, cutting a semi-circle in the soft
snow behind him. Then as if mutually agreeing, they parted simultaneously, one loping towards us, and
I became fearful lest he spoil the show,
but having selected a place almost
directly above the unsuspecting deer,
he lay down, while the other two went
in opposite directions, completing the
triangle, the base of which was to
converge towards the unhappy deer.

It was thrilling to watch these master
brigands planning their attack, I could
see Levi's eyes open a trifle wider every
minute. The two partners were rapidly
approaching now and the deer, as if
forewarned of its doom, raised its head
abruptly and moving a few paces, nose
in air, sniffed the down wind, then
scenting danger, struggled to get out
of the drift into which it had wandered
while searching for food, but it was too
late, for even as it reached the light
snow, one of the wolves thirsting for
blood, rushed at its head, while the
other to cut off any escape, galloped
through the soft snow as fast as he
could.

This was the deer’s first sight of its
foes, and for the moment it was panicstricken, then side stepping slowly, it
lunged at its nearest opponent, but the
wolf was too agile—he paused a moment
to feint, then leaped at his snow-bound

-ey. Ina moment it was all over and

the blood from the torn throat laced the
milky snow. His partner was soon on
the scene and it looked as if they planned to make a meal then and there.
This was not in accordance with the
arranged plan, however, for the old
wolf on the hill, seeing his hungry
brethern about to reap the fruits of
his cleverness, raised his voice in a
savage protesting howl, crouched like
a panther, then with a snap of his steelspring legs, hurtled forward over the hill
and landed within a foot of the carcass,
petrifying “his abashed accomplices.
{ afterwards measured the leap, and it
was approximately eighty feet from foot
print to foot print. A stupendous feat,
rather, and | was for letting the old
beast go, but not so Levi, whose ideas
along some dines were hard and fast.
And a few staccato cracks of his Savage
brought the banquet to a sharp ending
and soon we were busy skinning and
panching the carcas.
It was not long after we reached the
cabin before Levi had the little tin
stove aglowing and while I attended to
the dogs and the small game we had
shot, he prepared our supper of choice
vension steaks.

THE GAUNT GREY WOLF

We talked till midnight before climbing into the sleeping bags and I seemed
to have just rested a second, when I
found myself wide awake staring at
Levi, whose gnome-like form was helfburied in shadow, as he peered intently
from the door held ajar by his stockinged
feet. Hearing my stifled exclamation,
he inclined his head and whispered a
low ‘‘look’’—as if unwilling to disturb
the silence of the aparkling Arctic
night. I got up and peered in the
direction of his hand, but could see
nothing, but the faint outline of the
mountains and the nearby trees. Then
a gust stirred the firs and on the night
breeze there came the low, sobbing,
monotonously petrifying wail—Ooowoo-wo— for fully ten seconds, the

|

 

clarion call of the wolf baying at the
moon rang down from the hillside.
It rose and fell, then rallied and rose
again till abruptly drowned in the
bestial how! of our own frightened dogs.

Levi suddenly gripped my arm.
“There’’, he exclaimed. Away up there
on the very top of the hill a black form
slunk from boulder to boulder; at last
it stopped and sprang on a ledge appearing in perfect silhouette against the star
crushed sky. For a moment it poised
its head to the moon, then slowly

  

  

THE LIFE OF A

SSS

Hallers

Who was the gentleman who called
at the Hall with a bicycle to get his
two lady friends? And did he intend
to take them both on. the handle-bars?

*

““Merriment and what-not’’ were to
be had in Connie’s room the other
night when an impromptu Spanish
tragedy was staged by the Famous
Five. Kayo, as Roderigo the Hero,
died in a touching manner, and not a
dry eye was to be found in the house
when the grand finale disclosed all the
characters dead in a heap upon the
floor. It is said that they revived a
little while later when coffee was imbibed to the accompaniment of toast.

“The way to a man’s heart is through
his stomach.” We hope that the fond
illusions of our friend at Pine Hill were
not destroyed until after he'd eaten the
cookies.

* ke *

What was the fate of the five-cent
piece from the first floor wing? No
reward is offered, we fear it is gone
forever.

* * *

Did she fall into the Arm and then
into his arms, or was it vice versa?

The following is suggested as an

turned and sprang back into the shadow epitaph:

again, as silently as it had come.

“By Gar, Wayessis,”’ ejaculated Levi,
scratching his head in bewilderment.
“That old wolf chased me, long long
time ago. I could never forget the
swing of those shoulders. It must have
been his ghost haunting the old track.”’

“'Twas ghostly enough”, I answered
sleepily, my teeth chattering, “but no
shade could howl like that, it would
make him an outcast amongst his
fellows.”

Without waiting for a reply, I dropped into the blankets overcome by sleep.

Next morning a blinding snow-storm
was howling around the cabin, making
travel impossible, so we mended snowshoes and loaded 12 gauge shells.
Inevitably the scanty conversation
drifted to last night’s weird visitation.
Levi was sure it was a shade,—the old
wolf, Wayessis, returning as a spirit.
“See the storm outside. That's what
caused it.’’ I have often heard fantastic
yarns explaining the influence on weather conditions of spectres or Larrys,
as they are called by the fishermen.
There is one I know which happens
to be partly fact—strange things are
done:

One wintry night in the Fall of 1900,
several Frenchmen were having a
carouse on the now world-famous
Greenly Island. Towards dawning they
quarrelled and one tried to knife another, whereupon the would-be assassin
was the prey of all. In their heated
frenzy the unfortunate man was flung
into a dory, and without oars or sail
was left to the mercy of a racing Belle
Isle tide and the brunt of an Easterly
gale. Tossed and buffeted by smashing seas, the half-filled boat was flung
on the stony beach of Whale Island,
twenty miles to the westward and the
victim crawled ashore and died. His
remains were found the following spring
and buried in a coffin of dory planks on
the wind-swept island.

And the fable has arisen that before
an easterly gale, the man’s soul moans
in agony; if the trawlers hear this wierd
sound while fishing near the isle, they
predict a gale. Often when the boats
are throwing up the fish at night, a
grizzled old sea dog will remark with a
serious nod of his head:—

“Well, skipper—I heard ‘’un bawl
this evening. Gale for sure tomorrow,
Sir!’ And he generally is right.

Thinking that Levi might have a
similar tale to tell, I pestered him with
questions, but he only smilingly retorted:—

‘““My son, your mind ain’t adjusted
to such things. You've had too much
learning.” Then after a while he
relented and said—‘‘I'll tell you one
about the Banks that’s as true as the
Good Book.” And having filled his
pipe he began:

ON THE BANKS OF NEWFOUNDLAND

“Once during a stormy December,
we made in to a little harbour of Fortune Bay, Newfoundland, to fix our
main-mast which had sprung a point or
two. While we were there, a man
came aboard with a long tale of woe—
how his traps had been wrecked, his
little bit of fish sunburned so that he
could not pay his bill nor get any food
for the winter and how his wife and
children were sick, starving from tle
lack of even the bare necessities. The
skipper gave him a barrel of flour, some
pork, molasses, and tea, and the poor
fellow went away overjoyed. Next
morning we sailed again and the matter
was forgotten.

The weather in March of that yea
was the worst I have ever seen while at
sea. Gale after gale blew themselves
out, making hell of a dory-man’s life.
Twice the western boats from Rose
Blanche were caught, and coated with
ice, their running gear lost, they beat
themselves up on St. Pierre. We had
our schooner nearly loaded, but wanted
some fresh bait to finish the catch,
so we put about for Harbour Buffet,
and after running some fifty miles,
were overtaken by a roaring northeaster with blinding fog. We had
lots of sea-room except for the ‘‘Keys”’,
a breaker some distance off the land
near the harbour.”

“Prior to taking over the watch |
had lain down for a while in my oil
clothes but had not slept for the ship
was rolling and pitching dangerously.
Every now and then a tub of water
would dash down the partly closed
scuttle and wash about the fo’c’sle floor

(Continued on page 3)

 
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  

She stood on the ice at midnight
The bleak north breezes blew
One cold Arm enfolded her
When there really should have been
two.
x * R
The band of South African students
now touring Canada and U. 5S. report
that at the Cape universities, co-eds
neither rouge nor lipstick and always
return from dances soon after twelve.
‘he only remark we make is that
“they ain't co-eds at all’’.
* * *

All seniors have fallen arches from
answering the phones for Freshettes.

So far the said Freshies have nothing; | poetry in that.

but what they are going to get is “a

caution’’.
* * *
A man in the reception room—‘‘much
ado about nothing”’.
* * *

First it was butterfly skirts, then it
was long hair, now its Fan-Tan. Shirreff Hall is becoming a gambling den.
Page a number of popular boys, their
shebas and a chaperone! Ask Barney—.

* *

Freshettes are talking about the
next Shirreff Hall dance. Get your
invites early by a few stragetic moves—
the Majestic, the Green and tell her
she has nice eyes.

x * *

Don’t tell your dreams around this place,
Just take it straight from me
Too many birds who think they're cute,
Take psychology
They'll tell you that your crazy
That your complex is a wow
And you have some repression,
In fact—you’re wild—and how!

. The oor pet Sweeper"’

KAMPUS KRACKS

 

Partician like and proud withal.
Dances very sprightly.
Happy as the day is long.
Such is G. C. Whiteley.
K

Correction

 

‘Silent, slow to anger

Soft words out do spankin’.
Replica of Calvin Coolidge.
Such is Murray Rankin.

ee

OUT OF HER LINE

 

While on Broadway we ran across
this bit of snuff. It dates from the
time that an outdoor production of

Hamlet was being staged at Hollywood.
For some reason. Mr. Barrymore
undertook to direct the ladies who

formed Ophelia’s funeral cortege. Most
of them had been to some body’s party
the night before and they were still
feeling a little festive.

In any case John seemed to think
that the scene lacked the proper solemnity.

‘A little more dignity,” he pleaded.
“Try and be virginal, ladies.”

One of the pall bearers sniffed.
“Listen, Mr. Barrymore,” she said,

“I’m no character actress’’.

 

 

‘LITTLE COLLEGE

February ist, 1929

Hillers

Although the Freshie Sophs did not
show up very well in the eyes of their
Professors this Christmas, they certainly gave Murray MacNeill an eyeful, when he turned on the lights
upstairs in the Waegwoltic last Friday
night.

x * *

All manner of unusual things occurred
at the ’3i—’32 Class Party. For the
first time in the history of the University,
a Freshman ‘‘cut-in"’ on a professor.

Well! Max, you have to admit it
takes ‘“‘Braine”’ toa thing like that.

Prof. J. N. Gowanloch of the Zoology and Fisheries departments journeyed to St. John last week-end where
he regaled various clubs with his
sympathetic humour, besides telling a
few truths about the broad Atlantic
and the creatures that swim therein.

We have grown accustomed to scientist’s searching for the ultimate atom,
the average man and the missing collar
stud but of late it has come to our
notice that the present problem confronting a band of American investigators is to discover the world’s ugliest
women.

Well after all is said and looked at
they won’t find her at Dalhousie.

The boys in Bacteriology got a shot
of serum on Tuesday morning. hat’s
the way they treat ’em in the Medical
Faculty after a Dental Dance.

Some of the Pine Hillers lately moved
fromthe old home. It can never be
said that the boys are a shiftless lot.

I've often thought:

That head strong youths

Of decent education

Determine all important truths
With strange precipitation.

By gum, there’s more truth than

* * &

Recently a Pine Hiller received word
from his sister in the States that she had
a phonograph which played 1000 records
without stopping. After listening to
Ed. McCleave talk for one whole
evening, he wrote back to say:

“That's: nothing; we have one in
Pine Hill which plays 2000”.
* * *
The ‘‘developing’’ Champion has

been ‘‘exposed”. At the trial following
the little affair of the Champion of the
Residence, all the gory details of the
situation were exposed, and he was
acquitted with a recommendation that
he do something about those «“‘Optical
Delusions” of his.

Feb.

* *

1 TECH BALL
Phi Kappa Dance at the
Lord Nelson Hotel
2 Phi Kappa Pi Banquet’
14 ‘‘Carrie Comes to College’’
at the Majestic Theatre
18 Junior Senior Dance

Owing to Prof. Gowanloch’s
absence the Gazette awards
will be announced next week.

* ¢ @

Sharp, short, snappy

And does a lot of hammerin
A vitriolic pen wielded by
Eileen Cameron.

 

Diamond Cut Diamond

On the Studley bulletin board there
recently appeared a somewhat acid
Philippic, denouncing the moral of the
boys of a certain year who had refrained
from asking their lady friends to a

 

party. It evoked the following response.
THE AGE OF CHIVALRY HAS NOT

PASSED

_ The chivalrous writer of this morning’s startling missive, apparently fails
to grasp the true significance of the
average Frosh’s position. Let it be
understood that his heart is in the right
place anatomically, and physiologically
functioning as it should: he is, above all,
a true gentleman, with a fine sense of
fair proportions, and yet, these qualities fo not alter the cold facts of the
case.

He is unable by force of circumstances
to take his Light o’ Life to the costly
affairs, therefore honor bound, by damn
he will not take her to a free one.

—A Cynical Frosh.

ATHLETIC GOODS
that bear this name

ee eee ae

co
OF CANA DA.LIMITED

Ba mete eL seer

ny FR
the best

in every game

SPAL DING ATHLETIC GOODS

Are acknowledged to be the best for every form of Sport and Athletic

Activity.
Sold in Halifax by

+

 

Quality Sporting Good

 
 
    
   
   

Se wef
week

se

and scientific expositions. The pro
a F

    
 
  
   
 
  
    
 
 

 

At oa

_ (Continued from page 1)

ssion of the realtive merits of nonninational as compared with denational education would be wel_ Topics of commercial interests
e not lacking. To cite only one, the

* ory of the inauguration of the new

nadian National Steamship service
h the West Indies affords one of the
romantic chapters of modern
imercialism. The problems of a
gional tariff for the Maritimes, and

Ueranitine Union would be divested of

Bren) NX
a
et *) P

much of their vagueness in many minds
if they were analyzed in clear-headed

hibition question never seems to. wear

i thread-bare.

How many Dalhousie stu
eA _ dents think that the ability to toss off

   
  
   
   
   
    
  
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
    
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
   

re

Ke %; i

>)

before he spoke her name,

ie

%

a glass of “the naked truth’’ without
_ winking an eyelash Mhould_ be an

undergraduate accomplishment? Book

reviews, current history, and current

olitics all offer large and unexploited
ields. The addition of contributions
to our College paper on these and
kindred topics would increase its worth

and broaden its appeal.

The Gazette is the voice of Dalhousie
students. From its pages the students
in the chain of Universities extending
across Canada seek to glean the ideas
and the topics that are absorbing the
interest of their sister university by the
sea. Loes the Gazetie contain anything
apart from verse and an_ occasional
bit of fiction that would excite interest
or merit insertion in a sister college
paper? Our student body must be a
veritable seed plot of ideas. All that is
necessary is a little work. Let the

dumb speak.
Douglas M. McIntosh.

In the Church Yard

 

(Continued from page 1)

di eared and a subtle change came
tae the night. The snow vanished
away and the air grew sweet and warm,
and fragrant with the haunting odor of
roses borne upon the breeze from a
arden that could not be far away.
The grass was soft beneath my feet,
and the twilight was tender with the
beauty of a thin, young moon and small
flower-like stars. In the place where the
new graves are now, was a little grove
of sapling birches where a mystery was
woven of moonlight and shadow.
To this little grove a man came with
quick, eager stride, and a few moments
later a girl joined him there, a little fairy
thing with moon-gold hair, a small,
white, pointed face, and eyes like blue
hyacinths. Virginia, I knew it was
Virginia the
well-beloved wife, coming as a girl
to meet her lover in the dusk. Hand in
hand they came wandering through the

churchyard, thinking not of the death
B'  Tovae tbat lay
fe eeeenat lay

around them but of the life
ahead. And the dreams that
ossomed in their hearts might well

’- pass. by such things as dust and death,
- for love mocks, the finality of the grave

‘and young love is very gallant indeed,
seeking only the hard, beautiful road,
never the wayside inn where the tired
and the old may rest. I watched them
‘out of sight, till the moon-gold hair
vanished in thé gathering darkness,

and the summer twilight changed to the

pale winter night.

And now their future has become the
past, and Virginia of the hyacinth-blue
eyes sleeps underneath the new snow,
while the moon shines down now from
a wind-clear sky, and I turn away again
to seek the busy places, remembering
her and her quiet sleep, which is the
final beauty, when youth and dreaming
are done.

——————

JUDGES HEAR
BRILLIANT
SPEAKERS

(Continued from page 1)
He argued that preparations for war
kept nations fit and cited historical
examples to prove the practical application of his theory.

M. B. MacKinnon, the president of
Sodales gave a very interesting talk at
the close of the debates.

The judges were the members of the
Intercollegiate Committee, Dean J. E.
Read, Professor Horace Read and Dr.
George Wilson. Dean Read congratulated the speakers and said that in all
his experience in hearing trial debaters,
these were the best to which he had ever

listened.

SPECIAL !!
EXTRA!!!
JUDGES MAKE CHOICE

The judges have announced the
following teams—

Newfoundland--Howse and Cooper.

Western-- MacKinnon and Patillo,

Inter-collegiate--McDonald, Jost,
and Greene.

Should three debaters go to Newfoundland there will be a re-arrange‘ment and Louis J. Dubinsky will
become a member of the third team.

—<$—$—$——_—_—_—___ >
HISTORY

 

 

 

 

Blue cradles
White ribbens
Pink dresses

BREATH

 

Grey coffins
- Purple ribbons
* Black dresses
+ eke —Death.

Various

a % Verne

 

 

THE NORTH VVIND

 

The wind came over the mountain,
_A whistling, shrieking gale
Rose like a screaming eagle

That carried snow on his tail.

He powdered the naked, shivering

groun

Till the earth lay warm in a sleep
profound;

And then, with a fiendish howl of
mirth

He tore the coat from the slumbering
earth.

— Margaret Ells .

THE UNATTAINABLE

 

O Beauty, Beauty that I cannot sing,

Corne close to me and tear my soul apart,

Blind me, and strike me dumb, and
break my heart;

And. then perhaps the tired wind may
bring

Some echo of the faint, far bells that
ring

The birth of inspiration, and the start

Of an awakened joy thrill like a dart

Of the first warmth that tells the world
of spring.

But, oh, how many human things and

ear,
How many little loves that fill the day,
Must I give up to worship at your feet!
O Beauty, this the bitter coin I pay,
But give to me the vision all complete,
Before my little hour dies away!

—Florence M. Brewster.
rrr

DEAR ME

 

I wish I was a little fish
A swimming in a river
I’d swim and swim and swim and
swim
And never even shiver.

I'd sail far away to sea
I’d skim the foaming billows

For many years I’d neer come back
To rest amongst the willows.

I'd swim away to Baffin Land
I’d swim to Singapore ‘

To watch the clippers take their tea
And then sail back for more.

I’d swim the Western Ocean
From Newfoundland to Dover,
And then I'd try the Eastern Seas.

Ah! to be a rover.

And if perchance I'd ’scape alive,
And was not eaten up

I might go back and see the place
Where I was once a pup.

—G. C. W.

QUERY

 

Sleep? With the wonder of life
Pounding with insistent hands
Upon my door;

Sleep? With the running sands
That swifter run

The more

I linger here, and keep

The things of life

Shut out by sleep.

—Eileen Cameron.

—_ Oo

ASHES

 

I loved you............
And I dozed in contentment
Like a drowsy dog
That basks on a pavement
In the warm spring sun.
But you left me as suddenly
As a careless breeze
And my heart is grey
Like a dreary dusk—Foggy and sullen.
My heart is ashes
That have ceased to smoke
And will never kindle again.

—R
——__@——____—

THE PIPER

 

© Piper, come back to the garden,

My dearest has slept too long,

But I know she will waken gladly,

At the lilt of your windy song:

For she often smiled at its ringing

On the far-off mountain track, :

Through the sweet, red dawns of springtime,

O Piper, O Piper, come back!

O Piper, come back to the garden,

My dearest one fell asleep,

And the cruel snow covered her over,

With its whiteness, cold and deep;

For you are as gay as a fiddle,

And you carry. nor load nor pack,

While the heart of me breaks with its
sorrow,

O Piper, O Piper, come back!

O Piper, come back with the roses,
Come hack to the garden here,
And I'll give you a gem for your keeping
As tender and bright as a tear;

If only you'll waken my dearest,

For the stars their radiance lack

And joy itself sleeps with my sweet one,
O Piper, O Piper, come back!

—F. M. B.

 

 

 

A ASE SS
(Continued from page 2)

with a dreary swish. My three companions lay in their bunks smoking and
their legs, hanging over the sides,
swinging slowly with the surges, seemed
like the limbs of poor sailors who lost
in the tomb-like cavities, were vainly
searching for a foot-hold to pull themselves from their death; and our oil
jackets stretched to dry on lines by the
bunks also swaying to the roll, were
like the headless creatures mocking
their efforts. Yes sir, headless creatures.” He paused to light his pipe
which had gone out and I threw a
junk on the fire. Then, having puffed
several times, he continued.

“Well, after a while the wind seemed
to freshen and chop around so I climbed
the companion-way to have a look at the
night, and my sonny, it was a wild one.
Every fourth or fifth sea would sweep
the vessel from stem to stern and she
groaned and creaked from truck to
keelson, as she buried her lee-sail.
We were running under storm trisail
and reefed jumbo and as the fore boom
lifted I could see away to leeward through the fog a smother of white foam
relieved here and there by a green comber. I then looked aft to see how the
skipper was faring and strange to say
saw two figures instead of one; wiping
the cold spray from my eyes | looked
again, two men all right. Says I,
“That's strange, the watch must have
split." So I made my, way forward
to the lookout. The five men were
huddled together by the jib-boom, their
heads turned to winward. I crept to
the fo’c’sle door and again saw the
two figures. The yo come lashed at
the wheel and the other just by his
elbow steadying himself against the
bits. Going below, I counted my
watch. They were all there—six of
them, the cook, seven, myself—eight,
five on watch and the skipper, fourteen,
that was the number on the clearance.
I did not know of any one else. “Well
now,” says I, “this is peculiar, this Is
damn peculiar.’ You see I was beginning to feel funny. Nothing had
ever happened like this afore; that
fo'c’sle was as black as the “dark day’”’
(referring to a total eclipse he had once
seen), and the sea rushing past the
bows and crashing against the timbers
as we buried our fore foot, sounded
like voices, angry voices.” He stopped
and looked so solemnly at me | could
scarce restrain a smile.

“My son, that’s true,”’ he continued,
“triie as there’s frost on that window.
Then, as 1 was imagining these things,
the ship suddenly gave a lurch and I
sprang for the ladder, shouting at the
boys. As I reached the deck I heard
the skipper's yell—distinctly enough
too. “Hard, down hard, Sir!’ as if
repeating the order. On deck, everything was confusion. The ship had
come to and every shroud and ratline
burst into a frenzy as the gale tore
through the rigging: every loose reef

int cracked and cracked like a hun
ed dog whips. I sprang aside just

—R. \in time to avoid the jumbo boom as it

swung viciously at my head and on
turning to take in the slack of the sheet,
T ATES OF TRA IL something which stilled my heart.

About three boat lengths away it
seemed as if the whole ocean was rising
inan immense wave. Slowly it mounted
till its crest would have touched our
mast head, then it sort of toppled over
and broke with a thunderous crash,
as if the mountain had fallen into the
sea. It was the “‘Keys” sure enough.”

“‘As we bore away, I ran aft to the
skipper who was bellowing orders, and
after we were running free again, he
turned to me saying.

“By God, Lev, we were well paid for
our flour. That fellow came and saved
us, boy. We were going straignt for
the breaker, when he touched me on the
arm. ‘‘Hard down,” says he, ‘and I
hard down, and he was gone.”

‘“‘Next day we reached the Harbour
to find everyone attending a wake
and sure enough, after we enquired, it
was the same man whom the skipper
had helped and what was more remarkable, the very hour of his death
coincided exactly with the time that
he saved us from the breaker. Now
what do you think of that.” I didn’t
say anything.”

 

BIOLOGY CLUB} For People Who Care

 

On Monday Feb. 4th at 7.45 p.m.
there will be a meeting of the Biological
devotees at the Forrest Building.
Prof. Horace Reid is scheduled to speak
on ‘Cats in the Pantry” or Historical
legal cases involving the murder trials
of dumb animals.

This is an unusual subject and according to Prof. Reid is humorous,
which of course means that his research on the records, combined with
the jocose imagination and sparkling
wit for which he is renowned will make
this a meeting not to be missed by anybody, not even the sybarites of the law
school.

Monday the 4th—-REMEMBER.

Oh

In accounts of the recent fire in the
Medical Science building it was stated
that a small boy rang in the alarm but
nobody seemed to know who the small
boy was. recent investigation disclosed the fact that the small boy was
Burris McManus, a brother of Miss
Shiela McMannus, Arts '29.

 

 

Halifax Ladies’ College

and

Conservatory
of Music

Upper and Lower School
Teachers’ Certificates in Art
Household Science

Music
Tel. S 224

  

 

 
  
 

Daddy De Kreppit starts competition with Goofees.

 

Dear Gazette:

I am a scion of that ancient and
honourable House of De Kreppitt and
I hereby go on record as protesting
vehemently, vociferously and venerably
against those lowdown upstarts—the
Goofees. They are personifications of
the modern money worshippers, drunk
and dizzy with self-smug-satisfaction;
they are high fliers. But our family
of which I am the living patriarch:
we are staid; we have background; we
have family traditions: As you will note
from our coat of arms: The coat of arms
of the DeKreppitts:

pa

I am surprised that you published
Goofee poetry; an example of which |
may quote:

I see something; the something I see

is a girl;

The something and girl I see approach

She approached on horseshoes.

The horseshoes are not on the girl;

on the horse.

But now witness the De Kreppitt
type. The old fashioned, solid, stolid
Miltonian ;:Sonnet. That will give
those learned and honourable gentlemen
Drs. MacMechan and MacOdrum something to think about. They can appreciate true poetry. And as for Dr.
Gowanloch he will be delighted to see
that so eminent a family has entered
wholeheartedly into this sonneteering
competition for the benefit of the
English language.

For the downfall of Goofee poetry,

In the name of all good traditions,

I am your Most Humble Servant,

De Kreppit, R.

N. B.— what follows is a mild restrained and proper
outburst of what I feel. We must of
course abide by conventions: The
Goofees of course wouldn’t appreciate
conventions. The conventions of our
forefather Joseph Howe who believed
that thirst should be quenched by
proper methods.

A DEVELOPING CHAMPION
OF PURPLE

 

If you could only know

Purple shadows on the snow,

Purple shadows under pines

Where no sun ever shines.

Monks-hood gayly holding up

Poison in its purple cup.

Purple skies of mid-night, when

All who dream are home again

Purple sea-weed in dark caves,

Purple shadows on the waves,

Purple fish that swiftly swim

In deep shadowy places dim.

And purple hills so far away

Seen toward the close of day.

With purples strewn through land and
sea

Earth pays her hard, high ranson fee.

—M. V. L.

    

 
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
     
       
    
   
       
    
    
     

PRINTING

We keep promises
and Deliver on time.

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
Phone S. 3800-3801

Commercial & Society
Printers

 

 

: MACLEOD, BALCOM |

LIMITED

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street
and Bedford

  
   
  
   

 
     
 
 
  
 
   

THE CAPITOL

SKATES SHARPENED
HATS CLEANED AND
BLOCKED
SHOES REPAIRED

Special SERVICE Given
to Students

44-46 Sackville St- - Phone S. 8557

 

   

STUDENTS

Text Books

 

 

 
  
  
     

T. C. Allen & Co.

 

tHe SONG SHOP tro.

for ANYTHING in

MUSIC

22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, : : Canada

 

 

“JOIN QUR”’
EASTER SUIT CLUB
Now Forming

“YOU NEVER KNOW
YOUR LUCK”’

Full particulars at

Roxy’s Clothes

SHOP
154 Granville Street

 

  

BIRKS—

have for sometime enjoyed
the distinction of making
all Dalhousie Class Insignia,
and trust their efforts will
merit a continuance of this
business. ;

 

9

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED
HALIFAX

Diamond Merchants

 

Shirreff Hall

Commerce
Society

and
Dalhousie
Crested

Stationery

FARRELL’S

New Store
446 Barrington Street

A complete Book—Stationery
and Gift Shop Service

 

 

Globe Laundry Ltd|

50 Buckingham Street

 

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

 

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

 

 
   
  
  
 
   

Note Books

   

Loose Leaf Books

    
     
  

Stationery, Etc.

 
        
  
 
 

124 & 126 Granville Street

 

  
 
 
     
    

   

   

   
 

  
  
       
   
         
     
     
     
     
  
     
     
   
       
  

2
us
SAB

4 we || A :
’ , ee p
phi CZ

og ; 1; aa ,
SORA Than I .
% - 4 } 4 r Li ‘4 ,

Say tt with Flowers, Say it with ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers K Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D.
Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world.

The Roserp

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

  

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS

Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

OO ee — re

 
    

OurHigh Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

| SUITS, OVERCOAT
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO , at one

price

p24.

MADE TO-MEASURE

| Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
| Barrington and Sackville Sts

  

 

 

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’e the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Presged, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00,

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

Sack 428 Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEANING ‘PRESSING

 

2 SHOPS

LORD NELSON HOTEL

23 SPRING GARDEN RD,

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College.

SERVICE— Always experienced
barbers at your service.

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road
 
 
  
   
       

=f : ' _ ByD. J. HILL, )
a verdant freshman, met

 

> College on the steps of the
ding one afternoon. “Say,
j 1e library and,

» and browse around.” “Sure
—s. know Art but we have more stuff
than we can handle now without going
in there and wading through a lot of
~~ truck.” “Joe, you've got the wrong
ae. ree ea. I, thought that way once, but
—— -‘I'm_s going back for more. What's
tie: going ap over here?’’ “Oh, 8 a
-—~—s gang of poor saps going into the gym
oe © foe > of the classes they have over
ae there.” “* - class is it I wonder.
et’s go have a look—see.”
“Boy! Look at that chap pound that
-— bag some punch. The way that fellow
throws a medicine-ball around makes
hey if it look like a toy balloon. That's what
puts the beef on you. Do you know
abe ee ice I’m going to lookup the schedules
and get into some o this. A chap
really should keep fit, what?” “You're
es. na ‘on Art, let's go.”” :
-——s« Outside they met their friends Al
---——s-‘Dent, Med Eason, Bill Law, Eng
Neer, C. Pharma, and Com Erce. ‘‘Hello
girls, what ho! Art and I are thinking
of taking a tour around the Forrest
Building. How about it coming?’
+ We're with you.” ‘Med, you and
by) Dent lead the way.”
After a short amble down Morris
| -‘ Street the boys came to the stamping
ground of the Agony Artists, Kat
oe Killers, and Politicians. Rounding the
~. south end of the fine old building they
’ were able to see to advantage its 1m_ posing and beautiful architecture. Moun_ ting the steps they paused in the door- way and said Med: “Across the way Is
the Dalhousie Public Health Clinic
_ where the knowledge ard skill of the
- most able practitioners are available to
all. You can readily see the benefit of
these clinics as well as those at the
Victoria General, Isolation, and Children’s' Hospitals, to the medical students.
_ Then, too, there is the Pathology Inais stitute where the medical and dental
ay pte take their bacteriology and
ay, - pathe ye
i Peres said Dent, “and then the
Clinic building we have our extraction
clinics on two mornings a week where
the senior students do the operating;
we also attend the operations in ora
_ surgery at the V. G. Well, let’s go in.
This room on the left is the medical
_ dental library. During my first two
- years at Dal I set foot inside that door

 
    
       
 
  
 

 
    
   
   
 

   
       
  
  
  
  

  

 

Fd ~ REPORTER
_ AT GARRICK

Splendid Bill Offered this Week
_“The Little Spitfire’ opened Monday
night at the Garrick Theatre and_ will
play the entire week. Mabel Grainger
who was ever so popular with Dalhousie
Students last year is back with the
_ Carroll Players with the same pep and
_ vivacity that characterized her previous
performances. Take a tip from us,
if you want a good ‘laff’ go to the

_ Garrick this week.
“The Little Spitfire’ is a rapid fire
comedy in four acts, direct from a
_ New York run.
‘a nice little chorus girl, the kind you
read aout in books, who is married to a
millionaire’s son. Gypsy, the chorine
es into amny scrapes in trying to
b ea‘ into Southampton societ i

 

 

and is
- handicapped by a naughty villain and
h’s cat-like partner. Andy T. Lightfoot as Peter Ralston the kind hearted ,
father-in-law millionaire does an ex-!
ent piece of comedy work so also

does Johnny Owen the poor relation
who has a remarkable opinion of his

abilities. Miss Grainger went over cu

big on the opening night and she is
sure to capture your heart for we even

noticed Bub Sedgwick in the twelfth ue 18.

row “‘givingjthe little girl a hand’”’.

The play is funny and the players
work well as a team b inging in many
bright spots. We failed to register a
chuckle at the occasional touch of
American humour such as the ‘‘My
gawds”’ and the “Oh lords,”” We would
advise Miss Lalton to confine her
activities to directing—her voice is not
suited to that of a cultured society
leader, and why the heavy make-up?

ING ACQUAINTED

| once; now I feel that when
‘University I'll miss the library more
than any other single thing.” .

GAZETTE

The play is a story of | National Bye,
naa, Be rae Operations in the near future.

    

I leave the

“This room is known as the Munro
room in memory of a great Dalhousian
and it might be said that it belonged to
the students for it is devoted almost
exclusively to their activities. To have
the use of the room all we have to do
is ask for 1t. Just next door here is the
particular sanctum of Brother Singer,
the Mighty Man of Music. © These
stairs lead down to the dental medical
and law smoking rooms where any
brand of sport or shop may be discussed
but the gentler sex are taboo. Along
the hall to the north are the law lecture
rooms.”

“Down there at the south end of the
hall is the Dental Infirmary. Would
you like to look around?”

“By all means, yes.”

“First we come to this little room on
the side: the X-ray room where we take
our dental radiographs. Entering the
Infirmary brings us into the operative
room where as you can see the operative
work such as placing fillings, crowns,
bridges et cetera is carried on. Each
chap has his own equipment: in fact it is
like many individual dental offices
all in one big room. Just here by
the door is the part of the room where
the patients await their appointments.
This large room adjacent is where we
do our extractions and denture work,
or so-called making of “‘plates’’. In the
Infirmary are the senior and junior
dental students so that before graduating we get two years in the Infirmary
where we practice each afternoon.
Let's climb these stairs and see what we
can find up above. Right opposite
the head of the stairs is the dental
museum containing those odd looking
teech and instruments that you saw
at the science exhibit. Alongside is
the prosthetic lab where all the technique work is done. Room 26, opening
off the main laboratory, is where the
dental society hold their meetings.”

“This room is Dr. Bagnall’s study,
where we get the soundest and _ best
advice procurable for the asking. Now,
Med you had better lead on from here.”

“Very . well.” Following along the
hall we came to the stronghold of
Professor Gowanloch where the embryo
meds and dents learn why does a frog
leap and how, what kind of a, noise
annoys an oyster and kindred biologic
phenomena. Just across the hall is
the office of the students’ council where
thousands of our funds go yearly. Up
on the third floor is Professor Bean's
department of embryology and_histology. Here we learn our beginning and

|| destiny and at the end of the hall where

Dr. Cameron holds lordly sway we learn
our ultimate end. While at the opposite end of the hall is the laboratory
of Prof. Bell, the botany specialist.

ce
OMS

 

       

A meeting of the Commerce Society
was held on Tuesday of last week, and
the matter of speakers was discussed.
It was announced that J. D. McKenna,
president of the New Brunswick Publishing Company of Saint John, N. B,,
would address the society on the following Wednesday and also that W. U.
Appleton, of Moncton, General Manager
of the Maritime division of the Canadian
Railways would speak on

‘

George Mahon, the chairman of the
employment committee, gave a short
talk on summer employment and
u-ged the co operation of the students
in assisting him in securing positions.
He said there were very | favorable
opportunities for summer positions.

The question of a Commerce Book

Bureau was brought+up and discussed
but was set over for a later meeting
when it can be more thoroughly disssed.
The society banquet will be held at the
Queen Hotel between February 10 and
A smoker was arranged
or Wednesday night, at which Sam
Jacobson and Elizabeth Allen spoke.
A party will be held near the end of
February.

Karl Harris was elected manager of
the basketball team in place of Ab.
Smith, who’ resigned.

_ Rand Matheson, the president, was
in the chair. About 25 members attended.

 

ee

' DALHOUSIE

 

While playing in the Dalhousie—
Crystals intermediate game last Saturday night, Captain Ian Fraser of the
Intermediates had the misfortune to
break a bone in his ankle. One of the
most effective players on the team,
Fraser, will be out of the game for several weeks but expects to be able to
hobble about the campus within a

few days.
oe me

Joe Mate, well known coach of the
Wolverines, who has been coaching the
Dalhousie and Kings University hockey
teams will leave next week for his home
in Quebec. While here Mate taught
the boys a great deal of hockey.

te

Interfaculty basketball got away to
a fine start last Saturday afternoon
and the league promises to be a hard
fought one. Volley ball enthusiasts
are now clamoring for their league to
get going. It’s about time that the
various faculties got their managers
appointed and get together to draw
up their season’s schedule.

fe te fe

City hockey league attendance figures
are not growing any and its doubtful
if the circuit will continue next winter.
There are some able players in the
league but they don't play on the same
team. Oyler, at center and Ferguson
in the Dal nets would look good on an
all-star sextette. Basketball seems to
be developing into the major winter
sport at Dal and every game marksan
increase in the numbers of the spectators.

»

a de

Although only accounting for five
points in the recent Dal—Y game
Davidson, Tiger forward, had an average of over twenty points in the five
games he had taken part in since the
beginning of the season.

So fe he

Alec Nickerson was the outstanding
star as the intermediates took a 24—20
win over the Crystals in a scheduled
intermediate league fixture.
his eye trained on the basket during
the entire game and rolled in the oval
for a total of thirteen points.

With the score tied at the end of the
regular playing time lan Fraser shook
the twine for victory on a foul shot while
Nickerson added another to make sure

FIRST DEFEAT
FOR DAL TEAM

DAVIDSON WELL MARKED

Our Tiger garbed basketball players
tasted their first defeat in this year,s
City league when the Y. M. C. A.
aggregation scored a 33—24 victory
in the Y gym last Saturday night.
The game was the feature clash of the
evening and the association victory
came as a surprise to the many Dalhousie fans.

The whole trouble with the collegians
was linked up with the performance of
Davidson, who in past games has
scored a large majority of his teams
points. On Saturday night Davidson
was marked closely and was unable to
break away from his vigilant sentry
whose orders from the Y coach were to
watch “that fellow’’ on the forward
line and keep him away from the basket.
That these orders were followed out
can be seen from the fact that Davy
only scored two field baskets during the
course of the game.

Russell McLellan and Fairstein made
their first appearance of the year in
senior company and although it was
their second game of the night gave
creditable performances. Parker was
effective at guard while the three
long baskets scored by McOdrum were
features of the tussle. All other players
worked hard and gave their best but
were unable to hold off the aggressive
association sharp-shooters.

‘Te You Wart To See Wet.

SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y.M.C. A @LOG, HALIFAX. N. 6. |

 

 

 

 

  
     

WINNERS one

For 60 years. the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

 

: ry fire.
Nick had] “ «4 Bill of Divorcement”’, on the other | |

GAZETTE

ORT BRIEFS " MAJESTIC NOTES x

 

Most sensational
among the younger
British stars who
have visited Canada
within the decade,
Gordon McLeod
comes to the Majestic on Monday
for three nights and
with two famous
plays. On Mon.
and Tues. te
he and his allEnglish company
present the celebrated costume comedy,
“Miss Elizabeth’s Prisoner’ and on Wed.
matinee and evening the most powerful
of ultra-modern dramatic triumphs,
A Bill of Divorcement”’.

It was Gordon McLeod who made a
phenomonal rise to stardom in London
when he stepped into the leading role of
“Scaramouche” on 48 hours’ notice
following the sudden illness of Sir
John Martin Harvey. His_ triumph
was immediate and the following morning, London critics reported a new
addition to the ranks of Brittain’s
great young stars.

Only a few months later, history
again repeated itself, but this time in
Canada. Mr. McLeod has been seen
in the Dominion on several occasions—
as leading man for Sir John—and_ when
the famous actor-knight fell ill in
Toronto last season, he again filled the
breach. Playing the stellar role from
Toronto to the Pacific coast, his triumphs were so spectacular that his return
this season, as a star in his own right
and at the head of his own Company,
become a certainty.

His coming local engagement will be
his first stellar appearance here.

“Miss Elizabeth’s Prisoner’, the first
of the two bills, is dashing, romantic
and punctuated with hilarity. It is a
costume play of the days of powdered
wigs and clanking swords, with the
vigorous action of the play often in
 

 

terrupted by galloping hoofs and musket- |

hand, is set in the year 1932. Dealing,
as its title indicates, with divorce, it 1s
the most powerful piece of work to be
seen on the London stage since the war.
Mr. McLeod, was starred in the English
production for the remarkable run of
62 solid weeks.

“ADORATION”
BILLIE DOVE

See Billie Dove in ‘‘Adoration,”’
and see the last word in emotional
dramas of love and jealousy, with a
beautiful European background. Never

 

With Antonio Moreno playing opposite,

| the scenes of passion are lifted to great
| dramatic heights.

There is much excitement and thrill,
with the downfall of royalty in Russia,
and the flight of the aristocrats to
Paris, their plight amid unfamiliar
surroundings, the cafes, the haunts of
the lower element, the final reconciliation and the hint of untold happiness
ahead.

Frank Lloyd directed this splendid
romance of royalty and commoner, a
First National picture, coming to the
Orpheus Theatre next week for 3 days,
commencing Monday.

 

“Such popularity must be deserved,”
said Al, as she went to see Miss Lowe
(by request) for the fourth time last
week.

 

a ——_—_—_—_—_—-
CASINO

This Week
Friday-Saturday

TIM McCOY
in
“The Bushranger”

Next Week
Monday-Tuesday-W ednesday

“Forgotten Faces”

with
CLIVE BROOK
MARY BRIAN
WILLIAM POWELL
BACLANOVA
Thursday-F Aday-Saturday
REX BEACHES

“The Michigan Kid”

with
CONRAD NAGEL
RENEE ADOREE

 

a —

has Miss Dove had a vehicle which
afforded her greater scope for the
exercise of her emotional acting qualities.

 

 

THIS WEEK-Thu-Fri-Sat.
“HOMESICK”

with
SAMMY COHEN
and
MARJORIE BEEBE

Hilanous Comedy of a demon pedal
pusher who crosses the
double crosses his rival.

FOX NEWS — COMEDY

heels.
| 5 1/2 to 10 1/2.

ajestic
GORDON McLEOD

AND HIS ALL ENGLISH CoO.
— MON-TUE-EVG. —

“MISS ELIZABETH’S
PRISONER”?

WED-MAT-&-EVG,

‘A BILL OF

DIVORCEMENT”’

— Now Playing —

“TENTH AVENUE”

 

 

 

Continent and

 

Men’s éafonia Shoes

$5.00 pair.

|

| Well made shoes of good quality Scotch grain
| leather with goodyear welted soles.

| A sturdy shoe for Winter wear! Sizes
|

Eaton’s—Second Floor.

“T. EATON,

——— SS

~  ORPHEU

NEXT WEEK-Mon-Tue-Wed.

Revolutionary background.

February ist, 1929

 

Beautiful

BILLIE DOVE

in another Exotic Drama

“ADORATION”

A Powerful Love Drama against a

 

REGULAR PRICE
FABLES COMEDY

-——

Ly Ee

 
 
   
     
      

Leather

 

oO

LIMITED |

C

REPERTORY THEATRE
— ALL NEXT WEEK —

CARROLL PLAYERS

Present

“THE MAN
WHO CAME BACK’”’

— NOW PLAYING —

‘“The Little
Spitfire’:

 
  
 
  

 

 

 
   
       
     

 

gf We are advisers on
an College Apparel

We have the proper Clothing and
Haberdashery for every occasion.

IO% discount to Students

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

 

 

 

30 Spring

 

Garden Road

   

 

A BARGAIN
$25.00
Chey. Touring

In good condition

Atlantic Motor Sales

Dondonald Street

AT

 

 

J. I. HAMMOND

 

   
      
   
  
     
   

NOTICE!

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO
STUDENTS

SUITS & OVERCOATS
CONDONS

MEN’S STORE

“ SCHOOL”
University of Toronto

       
   
      
    
      
       
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
       
     
 
   

Most of us were not sitting in the top . : ’ is r District Salesrow Palsony he Aneican Cor YELLOW CAB]||CRAGG BROS , CO.,|| Visit Our Accessory Manager of | Macluan’s
MaGAZINE with a_ large

     
       
    
   
 
     
     
     
  

and put over every possible laugh in the

lines. English LIMITED

Shop

Hardware and Sporting Goods staff of men under his direc
students and others

 

interested in drama should encourage HALIFAX, N

the management of this theatre in SAC. 4444 oo Our New Department ee an control. He has

providing Halifax with a first class on the Ground made good” and made
money.

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

playhouse and such an excellent run of
lays such as the Garrick is now offer
Floor.

JENSEN & MILLS

CO., LIMITED
Spring Garden Road

He started by joining the
Summer Sales-Staff of MacLEAN’s MaGAZINE during his vacations.

1929 Vacation is ‘just around the corner.’ We want
Students of the right type to represent us during that period.
The work is Congenial—Territory can be Arranged—Reasonable Salary and Actual Traveling Expenses Guaranteed.

  

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel .or same as one
More than two, 20 centsextra,

i? CASINO NOTES

 

Balifax Chronicle.

AND

“Forgotten Faces," a big emotional
story — ealing with the sacrifice of a
Lifer’ to save his daughter from disgrace and ruin, will be featured at the
-asino Theatre the first three days of

 

 

asa cael goatee ies ae eee .- The George F, Power You will receive training in your own locality; with a competent supervisor.
which is headed by such, favorites i uolder folk | | 7 COMMISSION and BONUS |
Powell, Bacloasva, Wack Laden a Balifax Dailp Star Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco ee mis on Production eleo..PAID

Student-Sales-Manager
MacLean’s MacazIne

Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you

Fred Kohler, ‘Forgotten Faces” should

be splendid entertainment. SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

for particulars

NEWSY!

       
      
     

and interview

  
  

of every Description

    
  

a

' . ‘ <DONALD an Baar ‘Readi : 153 University Ave., Toronto
PP -t-9 5 schema nga ts NOL
| SORSYTHE Hest Confectionery ACCURATE! ANee :
| | College Mens’ Ov. es Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax I
| Fs. to $30. he G DEPENDABLE! anit Rit C] FAN eine
} “119 Got ng St. - Pi 1 he Green Lantern BLE HALIFAX, - N. S. "CANADA'S TANS ON MERIT ONLY

Fo

ba ™ a=
vp aes
ee

        

Phone L 142 —
