 

“i Te.
—_ Jecture

 
 

et ea
— yl

7 : of lg
Se, , “pet fey
‘ 7 i oo

  

 

 

  
      
   
 
 

       
  
  
 

 
 

   

‘CIRCULATION

*~

* ANY COLLEGE ||

+
a cs
la

Welcome to Biggest Freshman Class

Univ. |DAL AND ACADIA PLAY

——— —- -—

Sete * :
, _ CHALLENGE OF EMPIRE

“AND CHARM OF POETRY

 

~

SIR JOHN MARRIOTT

 

Sir John Marriot, M. P., Historian,
Political Scientist, and a leading member
of the inter-parliamentary delegation
, spoke to
interested

which is now touring Canada
a large crowd of keenly

students and professors in the Chem.
Theatre on last Tuesday morning,
Oct. 2nd.

‘Sir John,
subject, delivered one of the finest
addresses ever heard at this University.

The time in which he spoke slipped by
At the
conclusion of the address Dean Read
expressed the thanks of the students for
. spea kindness in addressing

far too quickly for his audience.

the speaker's
them.

BLISS CARMAN

 

‘On Monday,
‘by Dr. MacMechan

lyric poet of international renown.
Carman

   

-.

 

 

   
  

the Universities of
a, McGill and Toronto. These
oO Ne educa

   
  
 
   

  

    
  
     
  
 

as P
on
JIE

Na

  
  
 

Sa

 

 

“being happy. Th
of sntaren. educa
a or eet life. _ Some
h the years of training
$7 doing whil others merely
AP ‘out like the animals and insects of
nature with nothing but experience to
be their teacher. Poetry is a part 0
education. Look, for example at Woodworth’s Daffodils. That, poem does
not tell the reader anything new in a
‘scientific way. There 1s no botanical
value in the poem. But it does show
how Wordsworth felt that morning
when he saw the glorious sight. The
crowd of golden daffodils affects him
so profoundly that he cannot rest
until he has put it down on paper, just
as we want to express ourselves about
ings we have seen.
ee Wordaworth makes us see the daffodils as he saw them. By use of word and
phrase he shows them to us thereby
becoming a transcriber of nature. 2
It is the poetry of nature that gives
us pleasure and when that poesy is put
‘into words we call it Poetry. Anything
which paints nature and life for us to
heighten our happiness, whether it be
in the form of verse or not, is poetry.
It has been said that ‘‘nothing has ever
been said in poetry that could not be
said better in prose,’ a statement
which is absolutely untrue. The heightened language used by Wordsworth
and such as any poet must use has a
certain effect upon us physically which
prose cannot give. The question 1nvolves the whole subject of rhymes and
is too complicated to be dealt with in
such a talk. But when experience
heightens our enjoyment, our lives are
intensified and there is a definite physical reaction,—a quickening of the
ulse and of the mentality, and a rhyme
in itself. Since rhyme is. naturally
affected by other rhyme, poetry when of
an intense character must have rhymic
form to move us in a physical way.
‘In any other form poetry is devoid of
this power. :
_ “The only thing” said Mr. Carman,
“to remember is the fact that poetry
ought to enlarge our outlook on life by
giving us a vicarious experience.”
Just as one who has taken part in a
great play is never quite the same
afterwards, so great literature gives
us experience by which our capacity
for enjoyment is increased. Since we
are not all at the same point of development, a poem cannot have the same
effect on all of us. Our own literature
is of special interest to us because we
have the background. But we can
acquire a background that will allow

   
  
  

  

  
 
  

 
 

  

- ~ us to enjoy many kinds of literature.

TRACK MEET

}
1
é

 

t
ae

All those who made places on Fresh
man Track Team should turn our for
teack ractice for the pending track

"meet with Acadia Freshmen.

guished Men

A Parliamentarian and a Poet

”

  
  
 
   
     
 
    
   
  
  
  

After an introduction by Dean Read
choosing Government for his

October the eighth, the
class in English Literature conducted}
had the pleasure
and honor ot being addressed by none]
ether =than William

  

Bliss Carman,

who has made two
and reading tours of Canada
began his remarks with an
it of his lectures and informal}

        
 
 
 
     
     
    
  

’ , ot] *. oo : r m4

ys

  

  

at
watt

—

HUN

aI!

 

       
   

MOU)

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 12th, 1928

 

 

President

 

A. STANLEY MacKENZIE

 

President Greets All

Students


ASSEMBLED FROM EVERY
fel ORBCTION >

Hb sm

In this the first number of the Gaz
ette 1 wish to extend a welcome to all
‘students, old and new, who have come
to old Dalhousie for the session we have
entered upon.
of the clans of old you have converged |.
f}upon Dalhousie from every direction

Like a great gathering

of the compass, from every province
of the Dominion and from the Ancient
Colony, from every city, village and
hamlet of this province, and from every
section of this city, an army eight hundred and fifty strong. Surely there

‘must be something which makes an ||
appeal to you in this Dalhousie of ours,)| |

something that you want to be part of,

since you have chosen to become Dal-'| |

housians. We old Dalhousians think
we have something to be proud of,
traditions of honourableness and genuineness, of scholarship and high academic ideals, of manliness and true
sportsmanship. To participation in
these we particularly welcome the new
students, and congratulate ourselves
that the old students have come back
to inspire the new. I would like to
express the wish that this may be a
happy and successful year for every one.

A. STANLEY MacKENZIE,

President.
Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N.S.,
October 10, 1928.
eS —

Tudging from the number of moving
junk-piles it looks like some of our
ultra-modern freshmen got hold of a
few ancient copies of College Humour
of ten years ago and discovered that you
could only be a true collegian if you
owned or were associated with a pathetic skeleton of an erstwhile limousine
or lizzy.

SINGER CUTS STAG
LINE

Three cheers for the Council. Again
do eight hundred students cry it. Again
do a thousand tired feet bear testimony of it. Again doa thousand maids
dream of it. Again has the Council
Dance come and gone.

The Students’ Council royally entertained the students in the gym on last
Wednesday night. Sina Singer with
his orchestra made the music—music
which cut the stag line in half, a feat
worthy of the finest orchestra. Everybody came fresh and went away tired—
but happy.

The chaperons were Miss Lowe,
Prof. and Mrs. Bell.

The members of the orchestra were:
Singer, Budd, Davidson, Longley, MacLellan, Smith, and Walker.

Murray, the college cries in its thanks
to the Council, ‘‘Do it again! Do it
again!”’

 

2,
oe

 

la later meeting.

   
  

a ——————

Visit Dalhousie

TO INTERVIEW
DR. MacKENZIE

BALANCE OF $666.82

It was decided to have a committee
interview President McKenzie about
procuring a man to check up on the
athletic gear immediately before ana
after each practice, at the first meeting
of the Students’ Council, which «was
held Friday evening last in Dean Read's
Lecture Room, Forrest Building. Much
discussion took place before they mad*
this move.

The meeting opened with the president, Murray Rankin, in the chair.
He read the minutes of the last meeting
of the old council, of which he was
secretary-treasurer, and the minutes
of the first meeting of the new council,
held last term, at which he acted as
secretary pro tem.

Rae McCunn, George McIntosh, Rod
McLeod and Mr. Mahon, or if he 1s
unable to serve, Dr. Wilson, weré
appointed a committee to see the D. A.
A. C. about their handling their own
finances.

It was decided that a band of 13
pieces be sent to Acadia for the football
game of Saturday last, all expenses to
be paid.

Art Jubien read the financial statement of the last council, showing that
there was,a balance of $666.82.

The D. A. A. C. were allowed aa
advance grant of $150 until the regular
budget can be approved. :

It was decided to appoint a committee
to consult with the University concern
ing a debt owed for the upkeep of the
football field. This committee, composed of Rod McLeod and Geo. Mcltytosh, will repore back to the council ft

#

The allotment of dates for dances was

the closing business of the meeting.

Applications were read from the var ous
societies and the following dates were
granted.

Students’ Council—October 10.

Freshie-Soph—October 22.

Med.—November 5.

Law—November 19.

No dates were set for the post Christmas dances, but the Engineers, Dents,
Junior-Senior and Delta Gamma dances
will be held in that order.

 

“Blessings on the little Freshie

With thy collar and thy pants so
messy;

From my heart I wish thee more,

—Thank God, I’m a Sophomore!”’

For the past two weeks this has been
the refrain in the soul of every Pine
Hiller exempted from the wearing of the
green; but on that never-to-be forgotten
night, Friday, September 5, it reached
the peak of popularity. An ominous
silence had prevaded the dining-hail
that evening, and little surprise was
registered when at 7.30 the main staurway became congested with a tearful
mob of Freshmen garbed in evening
gowns. Brief*but fervent prayers were
dispatched and fond but futile glances
were cast on creased pajamas. The
Sophs meekly requested that the Freshies should repair to the gymnasium and
the latter strongly approved of the
suggestion.

THE ELECTRIC CHAIR

The horrors which followed in
rapid succession, would make a Spartan
sob. A smile was frozen on the lips of
every spectator and did not melt away
till far into the night. The first guest
to enter the reception chamber was
warmly welcomed, and as he looked
tired was very considerately offered a
chair near the door. His feelings of
lassitude immediately vanished for he
arose with almost impolite haste and
his face more a grieved expression.
Tis true, ‘there’s no rest for the Freshman’— e’er he reached the floor strong
hands whisked him onto a greased
wooden table which served as a temporary barber’s chair. The barber
never attended Moler’s college but
he was a wizard at his chosen vocation.
Such natural bald spots actually caused
the little Freshie to assume some semblance to the male of the species. Adorned with an original andartistic coiffure the guest was gently urged along
the slippery surface with a reckless disregard for splinters and_ succeptible
flesh. A twingle of remorse now assailed
the persecutors and they administered
a generoud helping of clams to nourish

 

an additional spark of life in the

 

Delta Gamma
Initiates Freshettes

GIRLS THRILLED

The first meeting of Delta Gamma for
the year was held at Shirreff Hall on
Friday, October 5th. The meeting
opened with a short business session.
The minutes of the last meeting were
read and approved. Tiie financial report for the past year was then read.
Two Junior representatives, Margaret
Mackie and Elizabeth Allen were elected.
There being no further business the
meeting was thrown open to the Sophomores. Then the fun began.

The Freshettes entered amidst gales
of laughter. The advance winter styles
created no small amount of comment.
Gone were the boyish figures, and n
their stead appeared graceful curves.
These were enhanced by the artistically
arranged clothing and the head-dress
was indeed remarkable. There were
many famous beauties who might well
pose for an advertisement of “‘a skin
you love to touch.”’ This beauty would
no doubt be increased by the somewhat
vigorous treatment given in the “Beauty
Parlor’, while the Freshettes’ finger
nails and hair ought to be in the very
best condition if the size and stiffness
of the nail brush and the length of the
curling irons have anything to do with it.
The very pathetic ‘‘love scene’’ called
forth much comment, but it is to be
hoped that the boys and girls at Dalhousie are not quite as violent as the
winsome lady and the dashing Romeo.
The Indian War Dance created great
excitement and would no doubt have
frightened even the Red Men themselves had they been present. Delta
Gamma is thinking very seriously ot

sending a girls’ football team to Van
couver this year—the eight-piece “‘jazz’’
orchestra, with its competent director,
to accompany them of course.

Rules for the Freshettes were next
read and the Freshettes’ ‘implements of
torture’ distributed, after which refreshments were served.

There were many comments on the
Freshettes’ good sportsmanship and on
the Sophomores’ originality. Another
initiation night milestone was past and

  

fast
weakening victims, so that none should
miss the joys that were to follow.
The clams were first dipped in castor
oil for palatal purposes and to insure
against a jam in the throat. Another
splinter-defying slide and the descendants of Michael Angelo were gained.
In truth, a very radical change was
wrought with only a few deft flourishes,
and the finesse of the brush wielders
was only exceeded by their extreme
liberality. Pallid cheeks were decidedly
not in vogue, and of course the nose and
ears had to be included in the ensemble.

LIVE EEL USED

At this junction a marked change was
effected in the proceedings. Many
calories of heat had been produced
during the intermittent slides, and the
fatherly Sophs were deeply concerned
for the welfare of that ‘skin you love to
touch.’ Necessity is the mother of
invention, and great minds, working
over-time, devised a novel anti-friction
machine. A particularly animated eel
was produced from a nearby pool, and
when placed in a pajama leg it made a
very creditable constrictor. A surprising amount of latent energy was
unleashed. Unfortunately the poor fish
gave his life in this woothly cause; he
succumbed while working on the twentyninth patient, but even in death his
body was put into very active service.
Natural wriggles were supplanted by
natural wriggles with variations. Someone suggested the possible presence of
microscopic life and the Sophs (almost
distracted by anxiety) literally swathed
the dear little cherubs in rolls of that
glutinous fabric, commonly known as
fly-paper. You may think the Sophs
are versed only in exterior decorating.
Not so; they are ardent disciples of
Longfellow, who recommended a minute
care of the unseen parts as well as the
seen. Efficient dieticians were immediately brought to bear on all points,
and especially on the lower jaw and the
nasal organ. When the space separating these parts had been widened

to many times its natural extent, three

(Continued on pege 3)

 

THE OLDEST

COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

 

 

NO. 1

ooo’

SCORELESS GAME

 

Gives A dvice

 

MURRAY RANKINE

 

Gives Insight Into
Student Life

DALHOUSIE MEMBER OF
NiPc €s, 5.

Upon ind, devolves cic “pieasunt duty
of extending to the students of Dalhousie,
through the columns of the Gazette, the
sincere greetings of the Council of the
Students. Many we have known before,
but there are others who are coming to
our University for the first time and who
have yet to form their associations and
take their place in the varied actrvities
which round out the student life at
Old Dalhousie.

Chiefly for the benefit of the newcomers, but also to refresh the memories
of the older students, I would like to
outline briefly the structure of the Council of the Students, its relation to the
student body and to the University, and
a very few of the problems which confront it.

The Council of the Students, was
formed in 1912, as a representative
body elected by the students, for the
puspose of student government at Dalhousie. Under its constitution, ratified by the creating student body, the
Council is given ‘‘power to deal with ail
matters of general student interest and
jurisdiction over all societies, clubs and
organizations now existing, or hereafter to be formed, essentially by the
students of the University.”

Clearly, the power stated in the above
mentioned clause implies a responsibility
which has grown from year to year, as
the various student organizations have
enlarged their spheres of activity. To
keep pace with this development, and
to encourage it, certain innovations have
had to be introduced to meet the new
problems which are constantly arising.
One of the most outstandingi Illustrations
is the famous Committee of Nine.
ihghly-colored pellets were placed in the
yawning gap, with infinite tenderness.
During all these entertainments a
violent massaging had been maintained
by the assistance of shingles. That
these chiropractic activities kept the
blood circulating and increased the
bodily temperature was plainly .evidenced by the clouds of steam which
followed a sudden application of ice
(Continued on page 4)

HOW ABOUT THE
GAME TOMORROW?

Dalhousie Tigers meet their oldtime rivals, the Wanderers of Redland
for the first time this year when they
clash at the Wanderers’ park tomorrow
afternoon in a regular city league fixture.

The game, which will be preceded by
an intermediate encounter, promises
to be a repetition of last year’s thrilling
battles, when the Tigers finally won out
over the Redshirts after four tie games.

A big feature of the day will be furnished by Sina Singer’s Glee Club band
which made such a big hit at Wolfville
last week. The band will be in the
special students stand on the north side
of the field and will scatter the melod
 

 

ious strains of Dal songs to all corners of

the grounds.

*,
—}
Od

SSNS ——.._—_,__00 OEE

MacLEOD’S THRILLING
TACKLE SAVES DAY

 

In a hard fought but ragged game of
football the Dalhousie Tigers and
Acadia battled to a scoreless draw on
University Field at Wolfville Saturday
afternoon to open the Halifax City
League schedule for the 1928 season.
Over three thousand people, of whom
nearly a thousand came from Halifax,
jammed into the Acadia stand and
lined the battle field to see the riva!
university teams hammer away at each
other for sixty minutes without scoring.

SINGER’S ORCHESTRA

The game was featured by the poor
playing of the opposing teams and the
afternoon was livened by the cheering
efforts of the Acadia students and the
loyal contingent of Dal supporters who
with Sina Singer’s Glee Club Band
tried hard to pep up the players for the
score which never came. Both fifteens tried hard to register but both
fell down on the job. The Dalhousie
representatives tried hard and didn’t
get anywhere while the garnet and
blue clad figures tried just as hard and
on several occasions came uncomlortably close to the Dalhousie line.

DALHOUSIE FORWARDS GOOD

What honors there were went to the
Acadia warriors who held the Tigers
to an even break in the first half and
who against a strong wind in the second
half kept the play in the Dal backfield
practically all the time. The Acadia
back-field was by far superior to the
Gold and Black, but in the serum it was
the Dal torwards who took tlie honors.

OUR McLEOD SAVES GAME

The outstanding feature of the day
was the playing of Bill Matthews,
captain and flying quarter of the Valley
fifteen. Time atter time Matthews
brought the crowd to its feet with
brilliant solo rushes into Dal territory
for large gains. Matthews’ best effort
came in the last few minutes of play
and was the last bid of Acadia tor
victory. Picking up a Dal fumble on
his own twenty yard line the flying
captain set off and in less time than it
takes to tell was far into the Dal territory. Only the solitary figure of MacDonald on the twenty yard line stood
between him and victory but in eluding
the Dal back the lithe Acadia captain
was thrown off his stride and was just
a fraction of a second too late to escape
the clutches of George McLeod, who
unorthordox but effective

with an :
tackle brought the invader to the
ground.

BILL WICKWIRE KICKS

For Dal there weren’t any really
outstanding performers. Captain Bill
Wickwire figured in practically every
play and did some profitable kicking
but fell down badly in any attempt at
team work. Bill did some good solo
work but marred his performance by a
‘non passing” type of game. ‘“‘Hogging’ the ball was perhaps the chief
fault of nearly every Dal back field
player. Time after time a pass along
the line would have meant a large gain
in territory but our players elected to
disregard team work and consequently
failed to make any large gains other
than by kicking.

ARCH MacDONALD PUNTS

Arch MacDonald turned in a good
performance at full back and his long
punting stopped many a threatening
Acadia rally. Orton Hewat and Harvey
Sutherland were good while the big
figure of ‘“‘Fat’’ Irving was a big factor
in the fine performance of the scrum.
Hewat was on the receiving end of the
only real run by the Dal backs during
the entire game, but was forced out
with but five yards to go.

Outside of Matthews, Eville was the
star performer with the Wolfville
Collegians. The lanky freshman played
a sensational game at full-back and
handled everything that came his way
with ease. Seven new men on the
Acadia fifteen worked in well with the
regulars and without exception gave
a good account of themselves.

REAL SPORTSMANSHIP

Fans who journeyed to Wolfville
expecting to see a repetition of last
year's rough and tumble clash between
the two colleges were badly dissappointed as the best of feeling prevailed be
(Continued on page 4)

 
    
   
   
  
 

fea * ee mr eae een
= a 3 a
Dalhousie Gasette
ae : i . BEN Cus. ig aS a
, Sport Editor
PAUL DOYLE

ue : Associate Ritors
ERNEST,M. HOWSE

bas! fi i. “Assistant Business Manager
ae R. A. DONAHUE

Bc aoe Business ,Manager.
ir S.,W. ARCHIBALD |

es = Subscription Rate: $100 per year.

 
    

Po He Who Sake

inspired by the reopening of colleges.

__keeper’s initials.

' and talked at. Periodicals, anxious to nurture classics—educational

_ ideals in Freshmen descry the preachings of the above mentioned

wise men. Freshmen are upheld as the greatest force in college... .

the new and pure blood....
and etc.

On the Campus and in the college debating circles the Fresh
unwritten law that Fkreshmen must be “‘broken-in’’, Solomon and

__ rod, you spoil the child.” Sophomores, heirs of Solomon fain would
_ exploit their birthright with hallowed hands, with eyes uplift... .
_ Why all this preoccupation with the Freshman? Truth to tell

it connotes: Youth, Ambition and all that sort of thing. It is
axiomatic that the hope of the University should be in her Freshmen.
Freshmen the world over must be made aware of their strategic
_ position in the affiars of the world. Theirs is the past to draw from.
Theirs is the present to actin. Theirs is the future to hope for.
sacs _Each Freshman is a new hope for Alma Mater. A new vision
of greatness. Each year he may strengthen her foundations. Each
a vent ie silver or golden thoughts (as the caSe may be) will be woven
into’ the great mental fabric, which is peculiar to his particular
Bein Array Mater Fh en sie ge |
‘| ~—~—-‘The Pessimistic schools of today must not be allowed todampen

ji
wg) >
Ke
|
;

r

  
    
  
   
 

endeavour, enterprise or research. The great strides of Science, of
__ Invention are not signs of the beginning of the end of things but
_.  rathet indices’ of greater or more far-reaching achievements. Crea4 -—_— tion never ceases. The most sonorous sonatta has not yet been com| posed. The mo: | |
Bet. ean: reared. The most beneficial invention has not yet been invented. The most beautiful painting has not yet been painted.
| _—s*The most universal book has not yet been written. The most
| inspiring poem has not yet been conceived. The sesame of our
social and political problems has not yet been formulated. In} _—_—_ spiration has descended upon us from Eternity and will go on into
| —s eternity. There still remain universe upon universe of unexplored
thought. Truly it is not often that he who runs may read, but
‘al surely he who seeks may find. :
fe As a rule of life the old maxim:‘‘There’s nothing new under the
sun”, must be discarded. At least, what has been, may yet be reinterpreted in the light of modern thought. , And so each man may
be asagein hisownday. Perhaps for Eternity, who can foretell?

No Four Walls

“Open to all classes and denominations!’—this admirable ideal,
__ well deserves repetition. The Ninth Earl of, Dalhousie, Governor of
Nova Scotia founded Dalhousie as a protest against the exclusiveness of the colleges of that day, which were restricted to adherents
of a particular sect. 7
Dalhousie was not be be the inaccessible stronghold of the
-members of any one religious or political’ aristocracy. Its doors
were to be open to all. It’s aim, its guiding principle was and is
- to give a sound liberal education, to those who choose her for Alma
Mater. At a time when narrow-mindedness was rampant; at a time
when, as we are led to believe there were no valvular leakages in the
hearts of any sect, the founding of Dalhousie was motivated by the
principle of Equality, and so Dalhousie has grown in favour as a
> ' truly educational centre.
Beam _ Dalhousie has no axe to grind. It is free from the string pull| _ ing of any group. It is democratic, non-sectarian and non political.
nai An inevitable consequence of the broad principle of Equality
_. which inspired the founding of Alma Mater was the development of
ry ne a well organized and independent system of student government
y and activity. The Gazette recording the History of Dalhousie
from 1869 to 1928 shows that Dalhousie true to her birth-vow, has
always through her many clubs and societies encouraged freedom of
expression in its many forms. |
The fourth issue of the Gazette as far back as 1869, in an editorial entitled “Bribery” scored the attempt of a political party to
have the Gazette publish certain articles calculated to educate the
| minds of the students. Certainly the debaters at Sodales in their
| _ attempt to vindicate freedom of expression have shown no fear in
| discussing the broadest social and political problems. The full
____ benefits of a liberal education can be derived only through thorough
___ discussion—oral or written.

of es.

ay
*— ee

—_— ° =
mn ce

names of Dalhousians. Alma Mater'’s sons and daughters have
fea left foot-prints, not in the windblown sand, but in the very life
| -_—s of ‘the nation. Her sons and daughters! have moulded national
| destinies. Her sons and daughters have played a great part in the
__ sacrifices of war and the duties of peace. |
____ _-Thus Lalhousie sas, within and without, built up a great tradition. Her criteria oi selection have been individual character and
itelligence. These criteria have not yet gained their due desir___ ability as standards, at all halls of learning. The Freshman coming
Pe ee oe into a family with great and proud traditions.
: ma Mater has from her first day of life been the champion of an
mane, broad and liberal education,

=

|
|

a
‘
+

*
4

rh Ph
i 
 

LT

_ Newspapers have astounding memories. Year after year
; towards the end of September, practically every newspaper, periodical and magazine devotes considerable space on the timely subjects

+» Modern education as a system fis praised and blamed. Dram_. atic and melo-dramatic dissertations upon education as education
are everywhere circulated. From east or west come wise men,
veritable wells of knowledge, who see education as a means towards
_ financial power. They serve us statistics to prove that men with| out B A’s or Ph. D’s, or other college initials after their names are
_ the more successful ones: for they are honoured by the ledger
_. And so Freshmen are written up and written down; talked to
upon the Freshman depends the future
_man is asked about leaving mama's apron strings; he is otherwise
humoured along and ‘‘kidded’’; he is sold parking space on the

_ campus; he is sold post office boxes in the smoking room, and what
- not; he is introduced, shown off and initiated; for it is the irrevocable

wise men of ages past and present bear witness: “‘if you spare the
3 y¥

it is a preoccupation with what “Freshman’’ symbolizes with what

nee imposing architectural structure has not yet}

The pages of the History of New Canada are filled with the!

\ ization of Warwick Deeping’s novel.

 

 

To me there is no prettier or more
impressive place in Halifax than the
campus at Studley. Suppose we take
an excursion across the grounds, entering at the gates on Coburg Road.

We first walk down the Avenue, a
driveway, bordered with stately trees,
which always reminds me of an aisle
in some Old World Cathedral.. From
the Avenue we mount the steps between
the MacDonald Library and the Science
Building, and are then on the Campus
proper. On the left is the Science
building, looking stately and forbidding
like some ancient lady, afraid of wrinkling her starched skirts. Directly opp
osite the Science Building is the Gym
nasium, a low building which always
seems to extend a cordial welcome to
its visitors, whether they come to write
examinations or for the more frivolous
things of life. Next to the Gymnasium
stands the Arts Building, which, to
my mind, is the most beautiful and the
most impressive building on the Campus.
Its tall pillars rise to heaven like arms
reaching out in prayer,{ arms which
seem ready to embrace Whoever may
care to enter. As we stand in front of
the Arts Building we look across the
Campus at the Library, almost the
rivat of the Arts Building in beauty
and impressiveness, hiding its face
very modestly behind a veil of ivy. In
summer the flowers and shrubs on the
Campus, and in winter its mantle of
snow, do much to enhance its beauty.

Continuing on our way we next come
to the driveway from which an excellent
view of the track and the football fieid
can be obtained. Next we come to the
famous hoard walk which runs through
a grove of stately pine trees: some rearing their naked branches upwards like
ghostly sentinels, while others lift a
graceful mantle of green towards the
infinite blue of heaven. The last point
of our journey is Shirreff Hall, dubbed
“The Port of Missing Men.”’ The Hall
with its gracefully curved driveway and
high stone pillars far surpasses every
Freshette’s wildest imagination. Shirreff Hall is built on that corner of the
Campus which overlooks the North
West Arm with its stately background
of wooded hills. The view from this
part of the grounds is no mean rival
for any of the famed beauty spots of
Canada. P

This, then, is a Campus for anyone
to be proud of, and I think that nothing
expresses a true Dalhousian’s feelings in
regard to his College so well as the following verses, especially the last two:

All Hail to thee, Dalhousie,

Our College by the Sea;

With heart and voice we praise thee,

Wherever we may be.

We Have With Us.

 

 

Among other new comers we welcome

from the Memorial College st. John’s
Newfoundland: Murial Lawrence, star
in basketball and in ice-hockey; Gladys
Baird, ex-President of the college debating society; Wilfred Templeman,
winner of the Jubilee Scholarship of one
thousand dollars.

Ray French,
Clayton Clford.

Coming with them are Art Crummy
and Max. ‘Bunker’ Whelan, — star
athlete, who have not attended the
Memorial College and are taking their
Freshmen work at Dalhousie. ;

From Mt. A. we are glad to see Angus
Sinclair, Don Thompson, Nick Kennedy,
Champion Holland and James Blacxdon.

From U. N. B. comes Frank Wishart,
who has made his place on the  irst
football team.

The Gazette is pleased to welcome
these new Dalhousians and hopes that
among them will be some early contributors to its columns.

S. C. A. Camps

On the 28th and 29th of last week the
members of the S. C. A. cabinet met for
a: preliminary conference in a camp
across the Arm. Much work was done.
Plans were made for the year. Apart
from study groups, more frequent
general meetings and church services
were decided upon. It was also generally agreed to extend the Dalhousie
Christian Movement’s activities so as
to be, in a greater measure than heretofore, of service and interest to students
indifferent to the’movement as such.

Members of the cabinet present were:
Hazel Williamson, Gertrude Hemphill,
Isabel Matheson, Mary Crocker, Morley Webster, W. G. Zwicker, G. G.
Campbdell, Tom Parker and P. L. H.
Muschamp. Prof. and Mrs. Bronson
and Gwen Fraser, last year’s president
of the girls S. C. A. were also there.

—P. L. H. M.
isaac ntl neater si

MAJESTIC NOTES

William Bennet and

 

 

 

‘Sorrell and Son” has been acclaimed
everywhere it has been shown as one of
the finest, if not the very finest, pictures
produced during the past five years.

Don't miss ‘Sorrell and Son.”

The long-awaited screen version of
that novel of father-and-son devotion
which has been read by hundreds of
thousands of readers throughout the
world will be shown at the Majestic
on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
next, and it is easily ranked among
the year's five best pictures. In many
ways it is the most absorbing achie, ement in cinema realism ever made.

H. B. Warner, playing his first part
since ‘““The King of Kings’; Anna Q.
Nilsson, Alice Joyce, Nils  Asther,
Carmel Myers, Mary Nolan, Norman
Rrevor, Betsy Ann Hisle are some of the
artists who share honors in the pictur
    
   
  
  

Jmost value to the Gazette.’

   
  
 
  

W hat Is Religion?

A discussion group: for Dalhousie

 

E } DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

jstudents will be opened next Sunday

evening at 8.30 at the Y. M. C. A. and
will meet each Sunday at the same hour.
The subject for general discussion next
Sunday will be, What is Religion? On
the following Sunday the topics will be,
Should Canada throw its doors open to
Oriental Immigration? Social, economic and moral pros and cons will be
discussed. Lady students interested
are invited. So that every point of
view may be brought out. The group
will be led by P. L. H. Muschamp.

ENGINEERS TO
HOLD PARTY?

With the beginning of classes at
Studley almost every board contains
a notice of meeting of some class or
society. The Engineering Society held
their first meeting of the year Friday,
October 5th at 5.30.

The Engineers trooped into room 51,
the usuan hubbub ensued, the President, Mr. K. S. Ritchie, took the chair
and the meeting was on. After the
usual routing business the special
business “S the meeting was brought up.
The principal business was to. elect
officers to fill vacant positions, as
follows:

Track Mgr—‘‘Doc’’ MacDonald.

Football ,Mgr.—‘‘Ort’’ Hewat

Stage Mer. for the Glee Club—C. F.
Whelpley.

Press, Representative—P.,E. Sullivan.

Then came the suggestion of a party.
(The Engineers are noted for their
parties). It was decided to hold one the
date of which is to be left in the hands of
the social committee.

The social committee is composed of
three members of the society not already on the executive, and is appointed
by the executive. This year's social
committee is composed of;

J. J. Power jr, C. V. Trites and J. W.Fisher.

There being no further business the
meeting adjourned.

—P. E. S.

GAZETTE AWARDS

 

 

 

 

We take pleasure in announcing regular Gazette prizes for writing English.
Prof. Gowanloch, Prof. Horace Read and
Mr. Arthur L. Murphy have consented
to act as judges. The prizes will take
the form of books.

The following regulations will govern
their award:

' 1. The Gazette will give one verse
and one prose prize at the completion
of each group of four issues. Thus there
will be ten competitions. _Announcement of winners will appear in the fifth,
ninth, thirteenth, seventeenth and twenieth Gazettes.

|’ 2. The prizes will go-to the best
“Best’’ is to mean of
A contribution of much interest to many students would be very valuable to the Gazette; you can see the ‘headstart’ which
that gives to humour. On the other
hand a contribution which interests
only a few, might merit a prize. Whatever you. submit for publication the
Gazette will consider an entry. It may
be the account of a basket-ball game, or
an ode to immortality. It is no difference—the only qualifications is that it
be English.

3. The competition is open to every
student except the editor.

Aontributions.

i

Interfaculty League

The inter-faculty rugby league has
been divided into two sections this
year with the winners of each section
playing off for the championship.
Freshmen, Arts and Law comprise the
teams in section one, while Meds,
Engineers and Dents make up the
second section.

The schedule drawn up is as follows:

 

Oct. 9. Freshmen vs Arts.

Oct. 15 LawvsFreshm
Oct. 23. Arts vs Law.

Section 2.

Oct. 11. Meds vs Engineers.

Oct. 18. Engineers vs Dents.

Oct. 25. Dents vs Meds.

me —
COMING TO THE ORPHEUS

 

“Street Angel,’ the William Fox
screen version of the play by Monckton Hoffe, will be the feature at the
Orpheus Theatre, on Oct.-15th, 16, 17,
and 18. This picture again brings together the triumvirate responsible for
the successful screen translation of the
John Golden stage play ‘7th Heaven"
Janet Gaynor, Charles Farrell and
Director Frank Borzage.

In this new attraction, which comes
to the Orpheus direct from its long run
at the Globe Theatre, New York, the
two youthful film\ overs are transferred
from the scenes of their first triumph
in the sewers and attics of Paris to the
streets and ateliers of Naples.

Miss Gaynor will be seen as a waif
of the wharves who joins a small travelling circus in order to free herself from
the persecution of the Neapolitan gendarmes. Farrell portrays the role of an
Itinerant Italian artist who, enamoured
by her charm, follows her about the
countryside.

Director Borzage, who is of Italian
parentage, has long been a student of
Latin manners and customs, but despite
his life-long familia ity with the theme
of ‘‘Street Angel’’ he spent many weeks
in and about Naples, while vacationing
in Europe last year, gathering data and
atmosphere which was to aid him in
pringing the story to the screen.

October 12th, 1928

 

i ——S

/
’
,

Charge, Murray Charge!
* * *

The S. C. A. will hold their annual
At Home to-night, Oct. 12th, in the
Y. M.C. A. building at 8 p. m.

x * *

Ask Prof. Bennet what to do when
you find yourself in a street car without
adime. And how about the ring.

* * *

Sir John Marriot’s reputation filled
the Chem. Theatre, but it was his
speaking that kept over two hundred
students awake and tensely interested.
Incidently they are still talking about it.

* *& *

According to data obtained from the
Frosh, Murray McNeil had more classmates than there are books in the
Library.

* * &

The Gazette takes great pleasure in
announcing that the Biological Dept.
of this University has offered a prize
to any Zoology 3 student who swipes
the pet cat of the head of that same
Depts... -..

*

Mable A. Borden. who took her
Masters degree under Prof. Gowanlock
last year has been awarded the 1851
Exhibition Scholarship, open to the
British Empire, and has gone to the
Univ. of London to continue her work
on scallop research.

Mable is to be congratulated on being
the first Canadian woman recipient of
this coveted fellowship.

* * *

Keltie Holman—dear old Keltie—
having surveyed the wonders of the
Lord at Wood’s Hole this summer has
emigrated to Univ. of Toronto; where,
while demonstrating a few things,
including Zoology, to the Torontonians
hopes to wrest a degree from the authorities,

* * *

Quite a few Dal people were working
with the Biological Board this summer:
Anna Wilson, Bob Ross and George
Langstroth at the Halifax station, while
Elizabeth Frame, Marguerite Ellis,
Stewart Allen, and Wes Stewart made
things hum at St. Andrews.

* * *

Herbie Davison '26 vetern debater
and caricaturist was seen in Ottawa this
summer delving amid Indian relics in
the Archives. Herbie says it is quite
time that he had. first hand knowledge
of Canada's aborigines. We trust it
won't get as far as that, however.

*

While travelling in the north, George
Whitely was asked how long he had been
a Professor at Dalhousie. This is the
unkindest cut of all.

* *¢ *

We note with apprehension another
of those amoeba like Kollegeate Kars.
Dalhousie is really progressing along
such lines, and in a few years at least
one ought to see those white corduroy
bags they're now wearing at Princeton.
Esquimaux dickies are also finding
favour with the well dressed college men.
Wouldn’t they just suit Fat Mackenzie.
How cunning!

 

Is it between 100 ard 200 pounds?
_ If your weight falls within these two
limits, then you are exactly the right
weight. for wrestling, because no matter
what your weight is there is bound to be
somebody just your weight that you
can wrestle with.

a ___________

    
 
  

 

  
       
 

u
MODERN

PRINTING
at

MODERATE
CosT

T. C. Allen & Co.|

124 & 126 Granville Street

   

    
         

 

      
     

attending Dalhousie.

| THE LIFE OF ALITTLE COLLEGE |

A COMPLETE

- That is what we have to offer the Young Men and Women who are
You aré assured of complete satisfaction here,

 

|

—
LL Sa

Florence Brewster, well known Dalhousie poetess, is progressing very favorably after an operation for appendicitis
in the Moncton City Hospital.

*

Shirreff Hall is not a goal and visitors
are not shown to the inmates’ rooms.
One Freshman may have thought this
was the case owing to the fact that Miss
Lowe is called the ‘“‘Warden”, but he is
entirely mistaken.
x xk

‘On Tuesday afternoon the Alumnae
Association held a tea at Shirreff Hall
in honour of this year’s Freshettes.
The guests were greeted at the door by
Miss Lois Creighton and Mrs Charles
MacAloney, President and Vice-President of the Alumnae Association. Tea
was poured by Mrs. Macneill, Mrs.
Maxwell, Miss Todd and Mrs. Cameron.
And eats! ! ! Need more be said?

Gertrude Hemphill, of S. C. A. fame,
spent the summer in Boston with Fannv
Farmer, the well known authoress
(N. B. She brought the cook book
back with her, but it is doubtful whether
Fanny Farmer instructed her to improve
coffee by the addition of Kerosene.)

* %

The Medical Dance will be held this
year on November 5, according to word
received from the Students’ Council.
Clarence Bethune is chairman of the
Dance Committee and a “‘best vet” is
assured. Plans are now undér way for
the staging of this important affair.

*

Arts scored a 3—0 victory over the
Frosh in Tuesday's game.
* * *

The Dalhousie Choral Society will
hold its opening meeting and practice
on Tuesday, 8.30 at Shirreff Hall.
All students who can sing, or think they
can sing, are invited to attend.

* ok xX

The friends of H. F. Grovannetti—
Dentistry '29 regret to learn that due to
ilIness he has been obliged to remain
out of college this year. His friends
wish him an early recovery.

Oo
Contributors will you please
put the heading for your article,
the number of words and your
full name at the top of each contribution? THANK YOU!

Special to the Dalhousie Gazette.

_ Wolfville, Oct. 11—The true university of these days is a collection of
brilliant minds. Bliss Carman's visit
to Acadia this week opened what will
probably be the finest Fine Arts course
in the history of the university, bringing
to Nova Scotia artistic genius and
venturing thought—men and women
among this planet’s foremost.

Among the outstanding names on the
years agenda are: Edward Johnson,
one of the world’s leading tenors; Mme.
Luella Melius, a world famed. singer;
Daisy Jeai, musitian; the Hart House
Quartet; and Rt. Hon: Sir Renneil
Rodd, poet and diplomat. The full
programme. for the year is not. vet
known. :

 

 

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED |
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s,

VALETERIA

A new pres ing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2...

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N.S.

 

Barrington St.,

Sack 428 Har. 12
LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEAN, NG

PRESSING |

 
 
 

SPORTING

GOODS
AND

 
       
 

MUSICAL
SERVICE

 
 
 

  

   

 

 
      

 

 

456-460 BARRINGTON ST. 
     
  

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 
 
 
  
       

*

ee ay eae

The Dean
A STORY WITH A PURPOSE

This,is astory with a purpose. Everything else in it is irrelevant, extraneous
and vexatious. What is the purpose?
Look for it. r

Now don’t make any mistakes,
“The Dean” is a brand new second*; hand seven passenger 1922 McLaughlin.
operation between the faculty and the| “The Dean,” like all real dyed-in-thestudents and a renewed interest in the wool, honest-to goodness. college-spirited
Dalhousie Student Medical Society all | Dalhousians went to Wolfville to see the
point to a banner year for students in}game. It took along Whacky MacKinmedicine at this university. Already }20n, Maxie Kelloway, Alec MacDonald

the society has been active as a body | Ben Guss, Rae MacCunn, Harry Chish-  throueh its several committees and |olm and Frank MacIntyre. .

; Whacky was chauffeur and guide.
And the rest of the boys ballast. ‘‘The


LS
*

  

 

   
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
   

 

dicates progress for the college.

       

 

wa ee. Z
as

ee] P Improvements: in the medical curr
— teulum understanding and co
   

The enrolment of the
shows an advance of twenty over las
year’s high mark. The complete en

    
      
 

year, and will probabl

 
 
 
 

a good start on the year's work has been

 
 
        
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
  

) e. an ries: ‘ ‘
wPerhaps*the most noteworthy event | Dean” needed ballast. indicated is very satisfactory.

i: s ‘the Medical Society which was held| The countryside was absolutely beautSeptember 16. The purpose of the|iful. The poetical ejaculations of admeeting was to discuss changes in the|miration were interrupted only by the
curriculum with a view to equalizing | majestic though rather disconcerting
the course by bringin the student into}sway of the car caused by the sudden
closer contact with the clinical side of | turns in the Nova Scotia roads. Look
the studies. The effect of this meeting | at the shades of colour in those maples.
‘should be far-reaching indeed, aside|Oh it was so edifying to hear these big
from the improvements to the course. | he-men of the frozen north get so poettruly the Maple Leaf

back .again.

ed to the chair of Commerce.

He has taught also at Cornell.
Professor John Phenister, M. A.
(Glasgow), who has been teaching in

>

_ The knowledge that representatives of ical. ‘‘Ah,

the student medical society may meet | forever!”
“Then we came unto a land where it

- members of the faculty and be assured 1
that their problems will receive con- | was always noon.” |
 siderate attention will go far towards| Wolfville is a delightful little spot:
cooperation in the work of the|real holiday atmosphere all the time.
year. The cordial reception which |Sina Singer and his band enhanced the
President MacKenzie and the members | collegian atmosphere not a little. And
of the Studies Committee gave the com- | then ‘“‘Hot Dogs!” ‘‘Hot Dogs!’’ Shades
mittee was very gratifying to the med-|of College Humour.
ical students. And say there were dozens cf oars of
_-—C AAmoong =the points discussed were the Dalhousians. Among the notables
- teaching of Medical Jurisprudence, | Dean J. E. Read, and sons; Prof. H. E.
_-——s&W Toxicology, Theropeutics, Phychiatry, Read, Prof. Gowanloch, Prof. and Mrs.
Laboratory Diagnosis and plans for|Murray MacNeill; not to mention
extension of clinical work in fourth year} hundreds of students and their g. f's.
mr. especially were taken up. (girl friends.) Murray Rankine, Baraoe The result of this conference, when|ney Archibald were both very busy
| _____it has reached completion, will be an| watching the eame. |
~~ ——s adjustment of these courses, affecting] On the way home the wind was
| —“—~*™*SSs thee:«étime «sand =requirements, so that|windier and colder than usual. Then
| ~—_—__ they will fit in with the course to better | it was that Maxie Kelloway’s bright red
__ advantage. Much credit for the ad- ‘‘comforter’* was more than an ornament
_—-_ yvantageous work carried on in_ this|to attract attention.
is due to the painstaking work of Dr.} On the way home the boys broke out

of Professor Mercer.

Dr. E. .W. Cruickshank, M. D. of
Aberdeen, D Sc. of London, Ph.D.,
Camb., M _R.C.P. of London, and
recently of the Prince of Wales college, in
Patna, India, will be arriving shortly
to teach Physiology.

Dr. Mary C. Stephenson is coming to
the Pathological laboratory to take the
place of Dr. Marion Irving, Dr. Stephenson is living at Shirreff Hall and is
medical advisor to the women students.

Professor M. M. MacIntyre is taking
the place of Professor Angus L. MacDonald of the Law School.

Dr. Clyde W. Holland is tatking he
place of Dr. H. M. Jamieson as assistant
inPathology and Bacteriology.

Prof. M. MacOdrum, M. A., Phs., D.
is taking the place of Prof. C. L. Bennet,
who is away on leave of absenc?.

To..all the newcomers the Gazette
extends its GREETINGS. Welcome
to the College by the Sea!

The Unicorn

According to the constitution, the
object of the Unicorn Club shall be,
Reading, Writing, but not Arithmetic.
The membership is open to all male
members of the University, including
professors, students and others. Meetings will be held monthly, dates being
set as convenient.

All discussions are entirely informal
and do not _necessarily involve a Bachelor's, Degree or a recommendation from

    
    
  
      
    

et ee es

  
 
   
  
   
   
     
    

Rat
ea

ea tal a

   
 
       
      
 
    
     

erm
— €. M. MacKenzie, Med ’29. whose]in music. Adeline, Clementine, Sally,
| i Among My Souvenirs, received favorable mention in a howling way. It was
still light when we entered the restaurant in Windsor. The boys watched the
uncanny working of the Victrola that

ae" 2 activity as chairman of the committee
___ on studies of the Medical Society was
_* ____ phenomenal in its intensity.

e MEDS FIRST MEETING |
ee f changes its own records. They became,

nai, The annual meeting of the Dalhousie | meditative upon the wonders of the age.
Student Medical Society was held in the} They also admired the silverware to a
~~ Munro room on Thursday evening | great extent
_~ September 27, the main business trans- It was dark when we got into the car,
+ acted being the election of officers for | after having inbibed warm drinks and
L | the coming year. The following ex-| having done justice to nourishment the
ecutive were elected:— boys became reminiscent. Intellect
——s*~President—Ian Macdonald, Med '30.|whetted intellect with the result that
3 Vice-President—Dr. C. M. Macken- | opinions flowed freely.
=. zie, Med 29. “Good thing that band. Great Enere Farmer, Med ’32. | thusiasm. am |

 

La
a
{

 

   

a © & oe &

 
  
      
   
    
      
   
    

~

eonard

    

     
    
 
  

rear 32 oa cu Dea a econ
_——:ssPreasurer—Edwin Ross, Med ‘31. — ‘Reminded me of a circus. the Committee on Studies. .
an . Me mber of the Executive—William} “Do you know, it was quite impress-) Something. often discussed but con
| ive as they marched around.”

 
  
   
   
 

   

ana Murphy, '31.

fter the routine business had been
ed out, the new executive took over

. a

 

   
  

rs

am

s
is an intimate association of staff
student body. This association is found
in the: Unicern, where all members are
on an equal, footing and have an cay
voice in. the administrations of club
affairs. It is primarily a student organization and the success of the meetings
must necessarily depend on the numbe
and type ef student members. |

Although the custom has been at each
meeting to read a paper on some interesting subject, yet the real value of the}
Unicorn lies in the discussion and genera]
conversation which follows.

The slate of officers for 1928-29
follows:

Honorary President—Dr. Archibald
MacMechan.

President—R. D. Humphrey.

Vice-President—F. F.. Musgrave.

Secretary-treasurer—G. C. Whitely.

Executive—Professor Nichols, Professor Wilson, and Professor Bennet.

 

   
  
   
      
 

     
     

 
 

 

 

WITH OUR LAWYERS

On ‘Wednesday September 19, the
Dalhousie Law Society assembled for
its first meeting in that ancient and
hallowed chamber, the Moot Court
Room.

After the vice-president Mr. Frank
Covert opened the meeting, the question
of the Moot Court for the ensuing year
brought forth. an ardent discussion. The
sonorous voice of one of the members
arose with musical resonance and complained vigorously of the incompetence
and poor administration of the Moot
Court. Committee of last year. It
appeared, indeed, that so lax was this
committee in the performance of its
duties that an eloquent, rnleaed and
lengthy plea made before the time
honoured Courtsby this gentleman had
not been rewarded with a judgment
until more than a month after the last
sitting.

Max Kelloway arose to the argument
and emphasized the fact that the judiclary were to be congratulated in
emulating the methods of one so great
as Lord Eldon, who sometimes took
years to hand down a decision.

Mr. Powell, however, expostulated
with no small degree of persistance, and
urged the meeting to pass a resolution
of want of ‘confidence, and total dissatifaction in the manner in which Moot
Court work was conducted last year.
The meeting was not in accord with
this proposal and quashed the objection.

Duncan MacLellan, John MacQuarrie
and Jim Fay were chosen to guide the
destinies of the Court for the ensuing
year.

As the criminal docket promises to
be a large one, a strong ‘committee
consisting of Messrs. Kelloway, Gaysie,

 

     
   
   
   
  
  
  
         
     
   
     
     
   
 
   
   
     
  
   

“Here's a good one for the Gazette:
8 ) ‘College Spirit reaches new high level’.”’
- the meeting and plans for the —— “What'd you think of the _game?
. ear were discussed exhaustively, AI thought it was a bit open.”
___ spirit of optimism seemed to prevail] ‘‘Well a bit slow in spots.
' probably induced by the good represent-| “I thought our boys loved the ball
_ ~~ ation of members present. Don Camp- | too much.” “Tf IT were publishing the
_——s“ ell was appointed manager of the|Gazette I'd say it was not just up to
a Medical football team and his appoint- | mid season fight, that's all. :
‘ment met with the general approbation] ‘‘Do you know it’s great fun going to
of the meeting. Plans for receiving the|a football game.”
new members into the society at the} And we passed an old Ford marked:
next meeting were made and a com-| ‘Wolfville or’ bust’—and « had
mittee composed of Clarence Bethune, | busted.
Eddie Murray and Sina Singer was
appointed.
ae = Clarence Bethune was eae PINE HILL
ae chairman of the dance committee an
- the fixing of an early date for this event INITIATION
| a was urged.
Br SECOND MEETING (Continued from Page 1)
ot cold water. Having undergone such
ea The second meeting of the society was | gruelling tests the Freshman was supa held in the auditoriiim of the Dalhousie] posed to be in first class condition for
Public Clinic which was filled to cap-| performing the last act. He was very
acity for the occasion. High lights of | unreasonably expected to climb a greasy
the conference were a very instructive pillar and following an exhibition of his
and interesting address by Dr. J. G.-| inability, corporal punishment was_reMacDougall, the reception of new]/ndered with unstinted fervor. But
et 'members, forty in number, into the}even here one feature partially re. society and general discussion of plans;}deemed the Sophs. Those of the
‘ for the year. Freshies who were blessed with a hookPony Dr. MacDougall in his pleasingly ed nose had the option of pushing a
es fluent discourse spoke on the “‘spirit’ | cake of soap about the floor. This last
. of an institution and painted a master-| ignominious feat was a prime favorite—
4 piece in words to show how this intan-|it completed the program in the gymnasgible property of a school, suffused/ium. To draw a picture of the harrowthroughout its members, elevated and ing ablutions which followed would
controlled actions of such an institution.|require a special artist, and as the
His words were received with great|tableau would essentially be a nude one
_attention and pleasure by those present. | it is better omitted.
After the enrolment oe the new members and the discussion of general bus- FRESHMEN GOOD SPORTS
iness, programme of entertainment was
carried out. The Medical Quartette The Freshmen were certainly on the
rendered several selections favorably,| receiving end and their luck did not
A. and Doug Giggon gave a banjo solo.| leave them when cake, ice cream and
Many of the others members took part | cigarettes were served at 9.30. _Every> in the program which was very well|one then participated in a brief sing
received. Dr. O. S. Gibbs spoke a]song, with an abundance of gusto, if
few words to the gathering. nothing else. Long before midnight
Refreshments and smokes were served | it was all over and the Freshies expressed
during the evening. their gratification very emphatically.
They sincerely hoped that they should
=¢ | one day be in a position to ‘‘do as much”’
for their recent hosts.
—J. M. B. '29.

-—use the gym. Boxing, wrestling, fencing, badminton, basketball, volley-ball, softball, gymnastics—if you want to take up an;
of these, report right away ‘o
Mr. Sterling in his office at the

gym.

 

Something to Say? to George Macintosh, secretary-treas. of Students’
Council? or Bill Wickwire, president of
D.A.A.C.? or its secretary treas. John
MacQuarrie? Just phone Sac. 3351.

2 SHOPS

LORD NELSON HOTEL |

     
     
         
    

CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction o

 

maki actically all Dalhousie 23 SPRING G Turnbull’ and Keyes will arrange the

Clie i rae, 7 | N GARDEN RD; erenes and oss aon true British justice

‘We appreciate the trust placed CENTRAL—The nearest Bar- 9} 'S @one fo the unhappy wretches who
ee FL Tal : ber Shop to the College. fall within the disfavour of the King.

| inus y the Dalhousie students Pp eg Executive: Messrs. Kelloway, 3 a

and in turn always assure them || |
| of our very best service.

SERS Sinise SONS.

SERVICE— Always experienced
barbers at your service.

Special Bobbing Parlors
For La

or Ladies at
23 Spring Garden Road

mond and MacIntyre.
Football Manager: Lionel Ryan. |
Pin Committee: Harold Chisholm.
Law Dance Committee: Miss Blanford and Messrs. MacLeod, Coffin,
Redmond, MacDonald, McNaught and
McCunn,

      

 

Sena

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

REGISTRAR TALKS |

Dalhousians will be pleased to learn
that the registration for this year iF

t
this date complete returns cannot be
given. .The registrar however reports
an increase not only in the total but
also in each of the different faculties.
prnlesinnd: schools

enrolment shows an advance of some™
what more than thirty over that of lasgo beyond tht
eight hundred and: fifty (850) mark.
While none of these advances are in
any way spectacular the steady progress

In the professional staff there are

__ of the season was the meeting between |, More than once Rae, Frank and Harry ; , Padterest
“5 "> the committee of studies of the Medical | !n unison earnestly enquired: “When do pith Le ae ae
oie and a committee representing | we take off. has been away on leave of absence, is

Professor C. Kierstead
Ganong, M. A. (Tor.) has been appoint
Professor C. Wilson Smith, B. A.,
L.L.B., (Har.) is teaching Education.
Professor Smith has been at the Univ.
of Missouri and has taught English there.

western Canada, is now taking the place

addressed the faculty.

-spicuous by, its absence in many collengs
an

— See aee meen eee ee

a

Page Three

Peek into | Future Never Mind / 3

(ls SMOKE A REX

   
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
    
   
  
  

Just glanced thru an advance copy
of the souvenier programme to be issued
by the Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic
Society on its opening night, Wednesday, October 24th, and I cannot help
but admire it, its contents, and its
spirit. Oscar deserves a lot of credit—
you ought to have seen him hustling
around town. Really something worthwhile keeping and I'll send you one.

Let’s see—here is Forrest Musgrave
back again in the fold not only as
director of the play but also as one of its tip
principal characters. Remember him \\ eae IA Spl
last year and that corking show he Nf MA WAL a |
directed ‘‘Brothers in Arms’? His NO

- i as
Vi 4

first play this year will be “Sham”, a
Ask for 4@/

one act farce. |
A & , r } 3
Cy ©
1] : . -%
( SX) «
J .

eh

  
    

  
 

wnaY>
7
I

ay |) p LR iv

AS

0 |
“T Mes
P "

  
  
    
   

Aya ‘)

Buried talent is being brought forth
in the person of Clyde Douglas who is
directing something to do with buried
gold, a desert island, and a half-crazed
derelict captain. Sounds good that
does. I attended the first rehearsal
anticipating cheap melodrama _ and
brought away with me instead the
picture of a fine character study.

Of course the Dalhousie Symphony
Orchestra will play at this performance.
They have had two rehearsals so far
and they are certainly in the full swing
of things. You know how they were
last year—well, they are still better
this year. The Dance Orchestra which
is a part of the Glee Club will provide
the dance music after the show.

Some class to Dal. I understand
that the Symphony Orchestra will
broadcast over C H N S. In fact
Major Barret, in charge of the station,
has made arrangements with the president of the Glee Club, Sina Singer, to
have a Dalhousie Hour once a month.
If you tune in you may expect to hear
your English prof lecture to you—that
is, if you care to. Don’t you think
broadcasting playlets over the air will
be interesting? Possibilities readily present themselves.

When some of these dreams like the

SAVE THE “POKER HANDS”

 

 

 

THE SONG SHOP tt.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC
22 Spring Garden Rd.

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED
SAC. 4444

 

 
   
  
 
    
    
 
       
   
     
     
 
         
   
       
  

 

souvenier programme idea and_ the Halifax, : : Canada
tame et become realities) 1! Halifax’s Only Metered —- ——==
Don't forget, BOW keep the 24th open. Service OurHigh Quality Standard
= ee Same Rates 24 Hours. makes out Low Price

Two travel for same ag one.
More than two, 20 cents extra,

Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and

 

On Tuesday morning last the first
year Medicals met to elect their officers
for the coming year. The will and
pleasure of the meeting was to select

 

 

Robert Baird as President, John Budd MacDONALI
as Secretary and Harvey Sutherland as erect TUXEDO, at one
The la formall duced ae ee price
e class was formally introduced to 7
the Medical Society by the meeting on College ean

Thursday night, when Dr. MacDougal $ ) 4

MADE TO-MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors|
THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS }#

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

19 Gottingen St. Phone L 1421

 

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers |
|

Visit Our Accessory |
Shop

Our New Department
on the Ground
Floor.

| JENSEN & MILLS |

CO., LIMITED
Spring Garden Road

&

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone

NOTICE!

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO
STUDENTS °
SUITS & OVERCOATS

CONDONS

MEN’S STORE

Sac. 692 |

 

 

 

  

The color band inlay on the cap ident-»
ities the character of the pen point.

 
   

 

i ke bou ght
his pen onthe
way to class/

e bought a Waterman’s

No. 7. He was delighted
with the color band feature that
enabled him to quickly and
accurately select a pen point
exactly suited to his style of
writing.
‘You will be as delighted as he
was if you visit your dealer
and try Waterman’s No. 7.

All over the country men who know
are employing this No. 7 scientific
method for selecting accurately the
pen point best suited to their style
of writing. No. 7 is offered in six
different styles of pen point. Each
is identified by a distinctive color
inlay band on the cap. Individualized pen point fitting is thus made
practical for the first time.

  
 
 
 

  
 
  
   
  

Dollars

“Oh, Boy,
What a

Fountain Pen’’

      
     
   
    

Dependable, speedy pen performance such as Waterman’s gives saves
valuable time for thought—a decided advantage during exams.

They are sold where you buy
your books and stationery.

    
 

 
 

 

      

  

  

Pete tt 3. ee
Pag r :
4 a DALHOUSIE GAZETTE October 12th, 1928
— SS ee - ~-= = —<_——=—————— — - + Ss
ay __ INTER-FACULTY SPORT SPORT COMMENT ee nae

 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  

 

 

are |. a PZ ;
(My J» rf It is regrettable to note that Daleae ae N housie because of its early closing can
ae ee not send a track team to the Interpoavaa collegiate meets. This term an endleavour is going to be made to pick the
track team in the fall and send them to
whatever place the Interco:legiate meet
is to be held in the spring. This will
give the boys who are picked an interest
to keep themselves in condition throughout the winter.

CASINO

ORPHEU

THIS WEEK
Thu, Fri. Sat.
‘The Strange Case of

Camp Ramper”’
A First National Picture

Soft ball and Volley-ball Leagues
to be formed ;

 

  

 

Keen competition is expected this
year in all branches of inter-faculty
sport and a successful season is anticipated. The rugby league, now under
way, has an earlier start this year than
last in order to allow time for a softball
league before the Christmas holidays.
Except for an occasional ‘‘pick-up’’ game
now and then the latter has never been
played at Dal but this year considerable
interest is being taken and plans are
under way for inter-faculty softball.

After Christmas the different faculties
will compete in basketball and hockey

NEXT WEEK
Oct, 15-16-17-18

STREET ANGEL

With
Janet Gaynor

and
Charles Farrell

       
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
     

      

There was a motion that Dalhousie
retire from the Maritime and City
| Intercollegiate hockey leagues and place
a team in the City league if possible,
or if not to have a team for exhibition
games, passed at the semi-annual meetling of the D. A. A. C. held Friday
nes|evening in the Munro room. There
its band which} was much discussion of this question,
eld before the} which was followed by the above motion.

 

       
   

 

      

COMEDY & FABLE Comedy and Fox News

    
 

  
      
 
   
   
  

 

  
 
 
      
  
 

  
 
  
   

  
 

    

 

   

 

   

‘*French Leave’

a , a ae nde ‘ .
he kick into Acadia territory
e ( Filled with Pep and Humor

re the Wolfville team were granted
‘k. Wickwire again punted
thirty yards. Play moved
enter field and Dal got started

‘on a run but McLean grabbed up
umble t twenty yards. The

and of the decisions reached regarding
them. But in the words of a wellknown professor, ‘‘Verify your references’ and go to the source of these
reports. The meetings of the Council
are open to the student body and student opinion is invited by the Council.

Thursday-Friday-Saturday

BUSTER KEATON

“FRECKLES”

handle their own expenses was discussed, but as the Students Council
were also discussing the matter, no
definite action could be taken.
Bill Wickwire, the president, was in
the chair. .
—J. L. McKenna.

  

ea et SS
aad-kept the large! Eddie \ ; sr of the hockey | 28 usual and probably in volleyball also. Next
“Gad ep the large] dle Murray, manage of the Hockey |Tyeae in Drie! are nny plans for the| |} Manday-rueany-Wesneatay [| 9 ele
Paha direction | fact wear with the Committee of Nine|CO™BE year. 1 shall appreciate any | ajes C
Bee a reg ae ie Wage re CP one opinions which might be expressed and WILLIAM
me with ~ about the eligibility of ee any suggestions which might be offered. Maz! Snes. and Wed saat cb is ‘ale
rt/-A committee was appointed 10, Saw |Thanking you, Mr Editor, for this HAINES fee : REPERTORY THEATRE
Students Council, asking that a student | OPPOF OEY TOM PARKER in 1 “SORRELL f Next Week —
i. 2 a oe an GREE KICK member a Sogenttee of Nine be We tntertaculty Sport ‘“*“Excess Baggage’”’ and SON The eae Co.
a RST ICK We VA Te ae ey e | * -resent
Seeks ope to i ie me d tact gnc rn Murray Fraser on the] | : ; J oe Daedeans eeeat Dey lia ‘*The Unfair Sex’’
| won the toss an Te athe football prospects was read, and he|time to time, in the columns of the Stas CG With a Wonderful Cast Pen tbiee sick eas
wind in the first ha er ek a told the meeting of arrangements Gazette, there will appear accounts ee hs lathes Wor aed Sree
ior Acadia. ees ‘made to take the band to Wolfville. of the meetings of the Council, of the TO-DAY and SAT. SR OE Ve ce ae SOs ae
ee pearey push ans Bey The matter of having the D. A. A. C.| problems dealt with at these meetings, Next Gene Stratton—Porter’s Now Playing

  
   
   

 

LO ALP LN ON OE me

  

in mn —x = = = Nn SE : mat aoe Sm Eas

    

‘*The Cameraman’’

    

  
   
 

make

ers ee eae a free kick which

we 1 them one ga ne:
returned the -to send the ball over
Ee Dal ; oa line, and MacDonald
- touched for safety. The Dal scrum got
ing nicely but the backs failed to
vy. Wilson was knocked out.
ve minutes. On the resumption of
lay the Dal backs made a nice run but
swat was forced out near the five yard
re a line. Jack Buckley gained fifty yards |
for the Acadians on a run and a kick

hut Jones sent the ball out of touch for a
ahs hy irty yard gain. Following a hefty
1 at Je As see,

  
 

   

——_—_——

 
  
   

yO
j es
eo |

fer ae

 
  
 
 

  

 

 

   

(Continued from Page 1)

       
 
 

    
     
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
 

technical

E ck by Wickwire the Tigers found
s delay in settlement.

Accordingly,

 
   
 
 
 
   
     
  
   
 

 

Nine and which deals with

University.

ra

 
    

oy:
ba
TT.

   
  

     
 
      
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   

 

semselves on the Acadia ten yard line
rs ¢ although the scrum heeled the bail
out cleanly the backs fumbled and
Matthews carried the ball forty yards
Po away from the danger zone. Before
ie ‘half ended Dal was forced again
to touch for safety.
; ees. ry fin eo €_ ACADIA THREATENS
Bete it Gickdd off i | d half.
€ Dal. kicked off in the second ha
a i ee ess ball and Wickwire
gained forty yards on punts. On a
i: HD ate hrow-in on Acadia’s ten yard line
- PT eeeve nabbed the ball and made
75 yards before being brought down by
‘McRae and Fat Irving

 
 

.

ball down the

wn the interest in its student activities.
was again on

a

lia began to threaten

S eter

  

te

2) other

 

       
  
            

  
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
    
 
 
  
  

 
   
  

for students.

 
    

      
   
   
 

terest to students.

respective Students’ Councils.

[
a a8,
—
me

But,

er-facu
then Arts defeated. the Freshmen
Bigr- Lamb was the hero for the Artsmen
was not converted.
the field for their first game with a tull
much better effect.
ss were treated to a fast game.

- "The inter-fac ty football league got
away to a good start Tuesday afternoon
aa: eerie by a three to nothing score ina
bitterly fought out _ battle. Herbie
‘ going over the line for the only try of
we fhe came in the first period. The try
‘This year's Freshmen class provided
a strong team while Arts appeared on
‘a squad. As a result the few fans of
inter-faculty sport who turned out

maa Orton Hewatt refe reed:
re - Arts:—Full, G. Fraser, Three quarters

 
  
  
     

 

   
 
 
   
     
 

    
    

RANKINE ADVISES

While the Council is “the only recognized medium between the student body
and the University Authorities and the
general public’, it was found that the
problems arising in connection with
certain branches of activities, particularly athletics, involved a great deal of
discussion and consequent

body was formed, consisting of representatives of the Senate of the
University, of the Alumni Association,
and of the Council of the Students, which
became known as the Committee of
the more
intricate points involved in the relations
between the student body and the

A further illustration is the inauguration, last year, of a Freshman Week
program. The idea of such a grogram
was conceived by the Committee of
Nine, as.a means of introducing new
students to the University and of
worling up among them an early
The
ey gal results of the first year’s experiment are
punt: relieved the clearly shown by the increased part-.
| icipation of first-year students in these

for| Not only are we at Dalhousie extendain! ing our interests at home, but we are]
out and joining hands with
“hie ead anadian universities for the
| his best! promotion of goodwill and common
ie which was! ctudent interests, through the organww of the Dal ‘ization known as the National Feder |
. sd their ation of Canadian University Students.
he This union aims at bringing into closer
contact the students of the Dominion,
to -encourage communication between
them by means of athletic and debating
tours, to obtain reduced railway rates,
To obtain reduced prices
on. athletic equipment, and to promote
many other schemes of universal inThe organization
is yet in its infancy, but has already
accomplished much, and its success will
be determined, entirely by the support
accorded to it by the student bodies of
the member universities, through their

It is needless to go on and try to
describe the various student societies
and their programmes, as their respective representatives will do that and to
please remember that it takes the concerted
support of all the students in the Uniyersity to make our activities the successes they should be, and get out and do

   
 
  
   
    

backing—not bucking.

Welcome.

branch of University life.

MURRAY M. RANKIN,
President of Council of Students.

Say it with Flowers, Say it with ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers & Potted Plants

a

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D.
Florists. We can wire Flowers

to all parts of the world

The Rosery

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

PIANOS, RADOS, VICTROLAS

Small Musical  Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

2 cents per day >

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

  

 

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

     

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.

Let the students’ attitude be that of

Again, to all students, old and new— |{
May the coming year be]
pleasant for you in every way and |
marked by cooperation between every

 

 

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY |

 

F > FROM THE
WINNERS RT

CRAGG BROS , CO.,

 

 

‘PRINTIN
For People| Who Care

We keep promises
and Deliver on time.

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
Phone S.3800-3800

Commercial & Society
Printers

For Young People as
well as older folk

Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you

    
      
  

  
 

Best Sodas
Best Confectionery
Best Meals

The Green Lantern

      

HUBLEY’S

DRY CLEANING, DYING
AND PRESSING

VALET
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT

GIVEN TO DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS

Less Discount
Phone §S. [09

4 Tickets ~- $2.00.
$2 Sackville Street,

 

 

Text Books
Looseleaf Note Books
Special ‘‘Lab’’ Book
Fountain Pens
Eversharp Pencils

Prompt attention given

 

  

{|

Remember!

THE BIG ANNUAL

Freshie-Soph Ball

Monday, October 22nd.
8.15 p. m.

Good Music!
Wonderful Decorations!!

STUDLEY GYMNASIUM
GARE & SESPD

Double Ticket, $2.00 - Single Ticket, $1.25

 

THE CAPITOL
HATS CLEANED and BLOCKED
SHOES REPAIRED
Special SERVICE Given to Students

|
We call for and celiver |

THE CAPITOL—44-46 Sackville St. - Phone Sac. 8557 |

 

 
        
 

  

   

le

 

 

WELL DRESSED |

 

at a minimum cost!
(Your complete Fall outfit need only cost you $68.15)

Every Item bears the well known label

éatonia

_ Here is a complete list of each
item and what it costs—get your

 

D>. Grant, McKeod, Hemley, Hump- 7 t
icchatt ec ates. Jemmett, Lamb, Parker; ror oe: ewe, eh - George F, Power Sheetal Ord Fall outfit now!
| Feewards Start, Cauin, Martin Fin-] The foregsing account of necessity. Spesel wea
eo wae st awed, aie: ol ; he : Ci :
oe Pe in cicind, auasters, functions of the Council and of a few of Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco Fountai P R a be 6atonia Hat $5.00
pees G nser, ‘Conrod, Webber, Halves, Ros- the duties which it carries on. From SMOKERS' REQUISITES n en epalir . 6é Shirt 2 50
—_ enbloom, Mahon, Blackadar, forwards, Specialists o
Conway, Riorden, Magonette, Silver, of every Description a6 Tie 1.00
ee eee Meee —Also— 6.5 Sate. 72 On
ees ; ’ '
i oa" feck’ . WRESTLING Cards, Souyenirs of Halifax FARRELL S Topcoat 25.00
eae # , Halifax Chronicle Majestic Bldg. New Store +s Gloves 1.50
~~» Towards the end of last year’s season HALIFAX, - N. S. i é ’
er Mc. Stirling, in charge of eee “see 446 Barrington Street ’ Handk’ef .25
--— education at the gymnasium, uncovere D
_____ potent wrestling material and discovered | ] Underwear .90
os the modest Oscar Rogal, ‘‘O’Rogal”’, The as Wool Socks .75 |
-_- former intercollegiate wrestling champ- || Globe Laundr Ltd 66
ce 3 a of New England representing Brown Bali fa 2 t St y Shoes 5.00
ee : ae iad Sorelle and sutzaber of : , x al p ar 50 Buckingham Street DA LHOUSIE rT: Braces 75
> Garters 50

Bertg ‘were put on the mat under the|}|
pte peer ie of Mr. Stirling and Mr. Rogal, | |
directors with special technical | f

NEWSY!

    
  
  

     
 

training.

building and is

   
 
    
  
 

is a specialist in man
a keen advocate of this

 
     
   
   
   

yf
“a

   
 
    

pas.

 
  

who watched the thrilling bout between | |
Rog nd Stirling at last year's Gym

ue and a quick thinking |
- The mat, moreover, holds little ||
$08 ihiutye _ |i} We have a good supply of our
tly rt is Ree ae Men || distinctive Dalhousiestationery
aeons i Mr. Stirling 851i Neat size crest, die stamped in

e. Practice hours can || ’

     

   
 
  

ae
..

  
 
 
 
  
 

oak jj
ssib
. &

1 yellow and black on high class
]| parchment paper, club size, with
|| envelopes stamped to match, suit= able for ladies or gentlemen.
}) Sold in bulk only, buy any quani tity you require.

/ALLACE ||| Faulkner's Book Store
aes |i] 16 Spring Garden Road»

 
  
  
 

   
 
 
 
 

   

  
   
    
    
  
 
   
    
     
 
 
  
     
 

 

     
     
    
       
      
    

C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’

Telephone Sac. 7 14

FOR OUR GRAND
OPENING
OCT., 12th.

   
    

      
 
  
    

SHOPPE

124 Granville Street

ROXY’S CLOTHES |

STUDENTS

Know where to come

sport, having held the Canadian Cham- for Foot
-__-pionship of the lightweight division in Maar
Ree Sea “some years ago. Anyone] ff Laundry

Right down Spring Garden
Road, No. 25,—or the Main
Store 555-559 Barrington St.

Dartmouth Residents, at,
26 Portland Street

3 Stores

W.L. Tuttle

 

 

 

“T. EATON

 

 

Specialists in Col
Apparel
MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

I

THE

Watch our windows

10% DISC

for weekly specials

 
