4
i

|

OT oT

  
 

 
  

   

 

A

VOL. LXI.

7

MT |

— Official Student Publication at Dalhousie

  

University

*==
os

(TOT

 

NO. 20

 

 

 

om

+

 

MARKED BY
SIX SPECIAL
FEATURES

BLACK LEATHER COVER,
CREST EMBOSSED
IN GOLD

Originality
on Every Page
Features of the Year Book of 1929 are:
The Year Book named.
Black leather covered with the

Pharos, and the Dalhousie Crest embossed in gold.

Bs
2

hve

st HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 22nd, 1929
_ Announcing “ ” Year Book -1929
- Announcing “Pharos Year Book “SHOW-OFP”
PRODUCED To Debate at School for Blind Tonight
. BY ALLEN
Mom NELSON AND
~ “Moron and
co Mackie" —”

George Kelly was produced in the
Gymnasium on Thursday evening with
the self-same cast. It was rather
remarkable that no changes were necessary; generally some, at least of the
. actors are of the graduating class.
Apparently many had missed the play
; last year, or else had considered it
worth while seeing twice, since the
Gym was packed to the doors.

This was the first time in many years
that any thing so pretentious as a three
act play has been attempted on the
college grounds; but even considering
the lack of suitable stage settings, and
the obvious smallness of the stage
itself, the produeet~iGrabam Allen, and
the playens managed to jgive to the
i @the atmosphere of, a small
eet home with all the realities
life ofthat class. The show
With A preamble by Graham
“Por Months and’ Months and
yea half-talking song, which
Suits) Graham well. Then the
is drew back/on the sitting room
lI e action of the Play takes

 

C. J. GREENE

wa

   
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
 

D’s Announced

Gazette ‘‘D’s’” Dalhousie’s prentier
reward for extra-curricular literary work
has been won by nine writers. They
are:

S. W. Archibald, Jack Bovyer, Eileen
Cameron, Paul Doyle, J. Lobis Dubinsky, Margaret Ells, Ernest Howse,
. L. H. Muschamp and George Whiteev.

Following is a gradated list of those
who have contributed to the Gazette
during {28 and '29) Diy. VY indieates
twenty or more/points; [TV fifteen or
more; IT} ten or more; II five or more;

Ralph Morton was splendid
| Piper—The ~Show-Oft”.
‘always turns Out a finished
)no matter what he happens
He is probably the best
alhougi€ today, and this

    
  
 

part maiine opportunity to show) 7 16<- thamifives
what capable of. VY. F. Ronald Hayes, Florence M:
to page 6 please) Brewster.
= IV. . None.
Ill. PetérHebb.

SOIREE FRACAISE:

LUNDI, MARS, 29.

II. Laurence Coffey, Don Murray,
Tom Coffin, Murray Rankin, Richard
Donahue, John Shaw, Chaire Murphy,

E. R. Buckler, A. M. eran

Dr. MacKenzie, Ken mith,

FRENCH EVENING Muriel Love, Douglas Gibbon. itetes

I. M. L. Kimmel, D. G. Hill, Frec

MONDAY, March 25, 1929. Forbes, J. L. McKenna, Maurice
MacKinnon, Paul Sheppard, Frank

 

* *,30 sharp Covert, Dick Humphrey, R. G. Harris,

Douglas MacIntosh, George Mahon,

  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
    
  
 

i. Evan Morton, Mildred Samson,
R. A. MacMillan, F. W. Hussey, Doris
: L'AIMABLE VOLEUR Margeson, Max Kelloway, J. S. M

William Wickwire, Abie Gaum, Sina
Singer, Tom Parker, Edna_ Harris,
Helen Ewing, W. MacDonald, M. H.,
A. M., W. J. McCurdy, S. D. Donaldson,

: Scéne comique, par Gustave Nadaud.

C. Fred FRASER et John Clifford

 

ae MOORE. Harold Davidson, E. A. B., R. Tulloch,
. M. M. W., R. A. Kanigsberg, Margaret
2. Jubien.
, LES DEUX OS
| Comédie en un acte, par Jules Moinaux °
a , May Read of McGill
ars Résumé des
| DEUX SOURDS. Speaks to SoMademoiselle Eglantine, fille de Mon- ‘ ;
a sieur Damoiseau, aime le peut ciologists
7 et est aimée de lui. Mais M. Damois- re
t eau, qui est sourd, a décidé, afin d’avoir] On Thursday noon of last week, the
un compagnon dans son matheur, que| Sociology Club had the pleasure of
sa fille épouserait un sourd. Placide| hearing Miss May Read of the McGill
" feint d’étre sourd, et Damoiseau lui] School for Social Workers. Miss Read

is touring Canada and is delivering a
series of lectures to University students.

Miss Read began with a description
of theswecupational opportunities and
eduiéational Mields im socialwork. She
réviewed the work of the various, groups
and schools and showed their gradual
development. “The experimental, and
field work of the schobls Showed remarkable evidence of a closer alliance

promet avec enthousiasme la main
d'Eglantine. ‘‘C’est la, dit-il, le gendre

j'avais révé!"" Mais Damoiseau—
ive dans les @@imansct les
empiric

  
       

    
 

35

  
   
    

   

@ Pne penge plus qu'a mettre
a porte. Placide qui ne sait
que Damoiseau @8t gucri, et Dam-,

    
     
  
  
     

 
 
   

 
 
    

au qui croit qué Plaeide est sourd,} with Hee university and the | Soial Scit haut @f ence departments. Les |
ee ia iss Réad then showed how Social

présence l'un de
I “ ° a 1és de ; . * : eR
Ss | ut | Work is rapidly becoming a recognized
1] profession paying a handsome salary and
Jaffording at the’ same) time! =p mcdid
ae for leading a very healthy
field

tre CGheene
rs in
‘arrange
e Plad@
mé de S

     
   
   

    
   
 
  

Theré if a Continual rise from

     
     

uses 5 ae Ue | c

acide pal eld pe fe a ae if i ces
time dag >| carrying high wages. Scholarships) to
eauied Dar aid in research work are in the reach

    

emps of the student who shows promising

   
 

     
 

     
  

i Ont lt ability. ai % | Peete

fl aed ies ae Demand for oe" Sogiall Vor

niface ida\ers is great. a ere %s no Pp :
ec" or

  

 

atives of Kings for the last debate of the year.
mprovement Schem

W inners.of Gazette

 

k J. LOUIS DUBINSKY

————LS

COUNCIL ELECTS OFFICERS
FOR 1929-1930

Jennings Acclaimed President;\Miss Francis
Elkin, Vice-Pres.| Gotidge Secedeneas

EXECUTIVE AND COUNCIL OF NINE REPRESENTATIVES
ELECTED

Tuesday nightyat the M untoe Room, Dalhousie ran@ out the old and ushered in
the,new—NO/not college year, something of iffinitely greater importanee to all
Dathousians—sthe Students’ Council. :

_ Wnder tle leadership of Fred Jennings, Pfesident, with Frances Elking second
in COtmand and Lom ',>oudg¢éas Secretarydireasurer, we feel that our Alnia Mater
just-can't go far wronc, and! that the retirine Councll have handed the reins of

Government a body of students, who in Shaping the destinies of 1929-30 will be
actiated Dy feelings of altruism and Who will base their policies on the principle
of tH@SHOSE progress with the east pessible-expenditure.

 

'

 

We do not expect the new government | Gazette.
to achieve the impossible—what we want
is a government which will profit by and
rectify in part, the mistakes of preceding
dynasties, and one which will make an
honest attempt to bring about urgently
needed reforms and to discern and
promote the most worthy elements in the
status quo. The new Council is fully
equipped with all these qualifications—
at least we presume it is; if not, then
why the student elections? ‘Our sincere
wish for the new Council is that every
session may be more chaotic and tumultuous than the last! MiiSamay sound:
like a knock in the hed@BH® in reality
our heads were neve working more
smoothly—we realize that Only through
disagreements will pf@blems be thor-VS,
oughly investigated aa@ the besp possible
solutions be forthcoming) Unanimity
and coherence are Cesitable Only when the
the component paftS are “tistinetly
individuals.

A record of each member of the new
Council appeared in the 18th issue of the

Following is the personnel:

; President
FRED JENNINGS, M.A., B. Sc.

Vice-President.
FRANCES ELKIN

Secretary-Treasurer.
THOMAS GOUDGE
Executive Committee
CHARBES MILLER

GEORGE MAHON
BEN JAMIN GUSS

 

C) Képresentatges on Committee of
ine
PRED) ENNINGS
DORTS” MARGESON
BYRON IRWIN

—G. A.B.

 

 

 

 

 

Council. Pres. Elect

Gditor of Year Book

 

 

 

FRED JENNINGS
B.Sc., M.A., present incumbent
of presidencies of; Newman Cluh
and Medical Society who succeeds Murray Rankine as President of Students’ Council.

RALPH S. MORTON
Editor of Year Book, who scored
a great success in ‘‘The ShowOff’, produced by W. Graham
Allen at Glee Club last week.

 

 

 

T. D. MacDONALD

To-night all roads lead to the School for the Blind, where another team of Dalhousie forensic fighters meet representThe subject of the discussion is: ‘‘Resolved that the St. Lawrence Watere is for the Benefit of Canada.’’ Dalhousie will uphold the affirmative.

 

 

Gala Reunion of
Alumni and Students

(From Alumni News)

This is the year of the Dalhousie
Reunioné A growth of modern years,
thesitléa of a gathering together of the
Alumni of every year is comparatively
new. The first Reunion at Dalhousie
was held in 1920, and was received with
Universal acclaim among the Alumni.
Accordingly, as aematter of poliey and
In keeping with her progress im other
directions, Dalhousie decided to hold
@ reuniog Of her Sons and daughters
@very five years.) Pursuant to. this
decision#a reuniom was held in 1924.
We now® come to that of 1929.

Already energetic committees have
been appointed, plans perfected, and
machinery set in motion to make the
1999" Re-union not alone the ($ulecess
which characterized that of 1924, but
indeed to excel it. Each class is to be
re-convened. Group meetings and entertainments are planned. The old
class meetings are to be recalled to life.
Distinguished Alumni and Alumnae
are to be present, and all is in preparation to make the 1929 Reunion an
occasion long to be remembered.

ELABORATE PROGRAM

There is going to be a parade of all the
classes from the oldest to the present
Various costumes are to be worn.

year. |
Open air meetings held. Smokers,
dinners and in fact entertainments

and attractions of all sorts are planned.
The Committee in charge will announce
in the immediate future. Every hour
of the three days is to be provided for.

 

Property Man and
Woman for
Glee Club

The Students’ Council have decided
that a male and female student will be
appointed by the Council to take charge
of all the properties of the Glee Club.

The duties of the Property man and
mistress are:—

1. To index all properties of the
Glee Club under their respective headings. This index shall be kept at the
propemtyeroom and shall be open at all
tim@s tothe President of the Gleé Club
and Students’ Couneil:

2, Yo properly Store and cate for all
Glée Club equipment,

$- TO) submit an inventory to the
Secretary- Treasurer Of the Students’
Cotimeil annually (on week before the
final meeting of the Council, or at the
demand of the Council:

They will (be held financially
responsible for all’ properties Mot aceougted for in their annual inventory.

Ss fe Shall be their duty to nd
to the President of the Glee Club or
Stud@ents® Council/t6 produce the nee
essay €quipment/ for any Glee* Chib
pemformance.

6 /Phey shall demand a signed requisition for all properties givén out or
loaned,

Tt} No properties shall Bs loaned a
any OFganization ,exeept by | propel
signed vouchers By the Preginaed ct
sug) Organizations agreeing to replace
or pay for all missing material.

(Continued,on page 2 column 6)

‘de ei salad

   

and

interesting as the first two.
dips into the present Dalhousie and
comments on current Guselle ditterances
of interest, as well as the ve

is moths.
‘tures are on the
Ahan Tae

3. Two coloured printing. Every
page has a yellow border which with the
black print makes the college colors,

4. The Pharos is divided into five
books.

Book I, The University. Here you
will find new views of the college buildings, and grounds. Several of McAskills newest studies are also included.
For the first time a full faculty picture
appears.

Book II, the Classes. Senior to
Freshman. A novel treatment of the
Freshman class. Every faculty has
its own cartoon, drawn by Art Ross.

Book III, organizations with their
pictures and write ups. Here again
noveleartoons are featured:

Book IV. Athletics, novel and concisé write ups. :

Book V. Feature section opening
with the caption, “All hope abandon ye
whoenter here!” It contains ‘‘the year
In pictures’, |Dal’s contributions to
“Believe it or not’’, also tontheskhall of
Fame. A pagé is most singerely dedicated to the class#of Bighteen’ Uimpty
Eight, whose picture tay oe found in
the lower regions Of the Arts” Building,
Dhese are mergly @ few,ol the pages of
this section, whieh is, if itself, an inn
Ovation.
5. Clearer pietures aré promised.
6. The number of copies is limited

and cannot easily be mecreased so anyone
who wants a copy had better. get in. touch
with one of the Staff immediately,

“ALUMNE NEWS”

VERY CREDITABLE

The Alumni News for March is an
interesting and valuable paper. From

the “‘Message from the President”’ on the

first page to the ‘“Travelling Library for
Dal” on the sixth if holds the interest
inspires the admiration of the
reader. The editor J. Gerald Godsoe,
and the associate editors Freda Winfield
“Andy” Hebb and “Gerry” Stairs are
to be congratulated on its production.
Plans for the Dalhousie reunion to be
held August 27, 28, and 29 form an
important part of the paper, while the
announcementjof the proposed Archives
Building fills one front page column.
Together with the message to alumni
from Mr. Stairs and a description of the
New York branch they fill the front
page.

On page two the editor in an article
“The New Outlook” gives the aims of
the news, “‘Dalhousie’’, he says, ‘‘exists
to serve province, country, civilization.
The purpose of the university is the
purpose of the Alumni News.’’ Besides
the editorial is an article or rather a
series of interrogation points ‘Do you,
Know” by A. M. M. discussing the
factors that make the reputation of a
college, particularly of Dalhousie College
and pointing out the students’ ignorance
of the traditions that have given Dalhousie_her. position in the world. The
writer givesha few of the namesBhat
have put Dal\‘'in the running” beside
the best of Canadian colleges for such

prizes as ‘the 13851 exhibition selolar
ship.. |
The remdining four page$ are quite as
Page three

d disturbing
uestion of the Officer's Training Corps.

Cupying the fifth page ds a& “feminis
cence” by Prof, Murray Maeneill on
College life in the gay nineties. A) photograph of Dalhousie’s Mussolini accom
Having described the act
Ries it.

tVities and interests at Dal in those days,
thé writer concludes with the emphatic
assertion that despite the lack of ences,
of Students’ Councils and of Year Books,
those were ‘‘the days of real Sport.”

The big problem/at the Hall just now
Cheer-up, | graduation’, picrounds and serve better

\ ee a

a.

 
   

i
A» aed
fie ee

oa |

A ce
} a hs

i cin, ie a
oe 5 eee ee
7 ‘'s 7 rcs ‘ ,
Hae 4

vie
¥m . a z
oan i ; ; ’
ry ;

  
 
 

  

i 7
; ‘

 

  
 
 

Sports Editor
PAUL DOYLE

    
 
  

pag Dieitaied
| __ E.M. HOWSE
RG. C WHITELEY
FLORENCE M. BREWSTER
J. LOUIS DUBINSKY EILEEN C. CAMERON

;

. } ; "4 Assistant Business Manager
‘Aidt R,, DONAHOE

a Business Manager |

Pgh) ea Bed oor oe S. W. ARCHIBALD '
5 Rosebank Ave. Phone L 229

Appreciation

 
 
    
   
     

BERR s AM, i '

The Editor wishes to extend sincere thanks to Professor James
Nelson Gowanloch, Professor Horace E. Read and to Arthur Murfor their services as ‘Jury of Award” and for their assistance

ao

 

    
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
   

 

as friends of the Gazette.
We appreciate too the kindness of the Senior Professor in
. Dr. Archibald MacMechan for his thoughtfulness and
kindly advice.
~ To all those who have been good enough to encourage us and
who have enjoyed the Gazette and told us so, and to all those who
have offered criticism—we may say we appreciate the spirit of
helpfulness in which both alike have been given.
ah Now that our tasks are over it is with a feeling of sorrow that we
put aside the editorial pen to make room for a better. It is our
sincere wish that the Editor elect may come upon and enjoy the
+ game feeling of kinship with Alma Mater and its traditions.
_ We feel that we have become part of a great family and are highly
ears |
¥ ;

 

  

      
  

te
. ae ”

bo

: ’
wy,
4
}

   
  

   

' en

  
   

f course if we could live our term over again we would be in a

ee position to produce a better Gazette than we have, but we stand
ready as foster fathers to nurture this growing child to the best of

:
‘

  
    
 

walks ot Ve eed
_. our ability.
| iar, To the Editor Elect we say, may your path be strewn with
© better prose, finer poetry and more noteworthy editorials.
ape mrt a) eat |
Bin F' Bare SS ; . ‘
Beate ert The Re-Union

 

———s« **Determined efforts are being made to make this reunion the
largest and most outstanding gathering of Dalhousians ever con_ vened in the history of the old College and University.
_--‘These few words presage a reunion of Dalhousians that will go
-__ down in red letters in the annals of Dalhousie. It is dangerous for
an uninspired mortal to prophesy, but one is willing to take a chance
to predict infinite benefits to all when old and young Dalhousie
picnic together, dance together, enjoy the peace pipe together,
‘and in the words of the song: ‘‘Stroll the lane together, laugh at the
‘rain together, (the acid test) and then make pretend it will never
_end’’—and all this for three whole days—delightful days, August
ee? 28, and 29.
~_- It is certain that every road will lead all present students to this
_ three days worship, not in the wilderness, but upon very fertile
rah round. It is certain that all loyal sons and daughters who can
_-will join the Clan Dalhousiana in songs of rejoicing in the hour of
_. her happiness.

| The Passing’ Term

"a

    

 

In our sixtieth anniversary number there appeared a synopsis
of the events of the year. In this issue, under the caption “Stars’’,
there is a word of appreciation for the college luminaries; for those

who have sacrificed time and thought—and often a meal or two or
an hour or two of rest that the heart of this growing university might
ib beat a little firmer, that the organs of this growing university might
function more regularly, that the life of this growing university

might be more pleasant. ate i
_—~——s* The path of the college executive 1s strewn with many prob
       

= 7
ue
a

  

© of

   
 
  

  
  
   
    

 

i
wt

;
a 2
: A ee ®

   

‘~~ 7

lems and with much criticism. We realize that it is very difficult
at times to keep up with the strain of the ‘intrinsic’ duties of office
and at the same time ward off or deal with ‘extrinsic,’ and unnecessary problems created by those who are so far removed from the
actual work that they are out of sympathy not only with the diff jculties but even fail to be moved by the successes.
----——s However this last year we have been fortunate in our leaders.
Most notable has been the forward stride made by the Glee Club
under Singer. | : Bs
ate Ty The Sociology Club under the unassuming president Zive and
bi - the Biology Club under Whiteley have aroused more widespread
interest than ever before. |
Pay Sodales the Debating Society under MacKinnon and Coffin
__-will have engaged in three debates with other colleges and will go
on record as having instituted inter-class competition.
es In athletics too under Wickwire and MacQuarrie our teams
have met with greater success both at home and abroad. One
: outstanding game resulted in a spontaneous parade, theatre night
and the first six page issue of the Gazette.
* Under Morton the Year Book “Pharos” is without a doubt the
-_._ most outstanding both as to artistry and originality,
ix The Students’ Council under Rankine and MacIntosh paternally encouraged every endeavour of our organizations.
; It is indeed a pleasure to congratulate our leaders for the wonder| ful efforts they have expended. Their greatest thanks is the happy
consummation of all their endeavours.
renee > the new executives we wish the greatest success for the
year. It is to be hoped that the Presidents Council will
. reality and will stand to serve as a centralizing force in the
: of the life of this Our Alma Mater.
i opel! BT
The Graduates
‘The time has come the walrus said
talk of many things |
Of ships and shoes and sealing wax And cabbages and kings.”
ee al iti whew . —Alice in Wonderland.

BP
1 ¥

 

 

 

ee ee ee

r 7 =
ie 
=

OUR ERROR

 

Mr. Benjamin Guss,
Office of the Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette.

My Dear Mr. Guss, I wish to officially
call your attention to an error made by
the Editorial Staff of the Gazette, in the
preparation of your last issue.

I was asked to write an article on the
History of the Medical School by a
representative from the Gazette. I had
short notice and simply turned to an
excellent article written by Dr. K. A.
MacKenzie, “THE DALHOUSIE MEDICAL SCHOOL, An Historical sketch
1863-1928” and published in the Nova
Scotia Medical Bulletin, February, 1929.

My own article was essentially an
ABSTRACT of this paper. I gave
both verbal and written instructions
that my name was not to be associated
with the article I handed in for publication in the Gazette, unless the source
of my material was quoted along with
the article. For some reason as you
know, my instructions were not carried
out. I understand that the written
instructions went down to the printer
pinned to the manuscript, but someone
“slipped up on the job,,

Will you kindly see that your mistake
is rectified in the proper manner in the
next issue of the Gazette, otherwise I
shall still be accused of the crime of
Plagiarism.

Very truly yours,
R. J. Bean.

RRESPONDENCE

    

  
  
   
   

CRITICIZES TYPE OF CONVOCATION PLAY

Editor of the Gazette.

Dear Sir:—Having been to Glee Club
only last evening, I write with ‘‘The
Show-Off” fresh in my mind. I need
not commend the acting to anyone who
saw the play. Mr. Morton, Miss
Williams, Mr. Musgrave and the others
were excellent. For me it was the first
performance. I imagine the play being
presented at the Majestic theatre: the
profs with their wives in the boxes,
college men and women—graduates
and undergraduates—townspeople and
visitors to the city, crowding the theatre
from Row A to the last row in that
supposedly celestial berth. All have
come to see the event of the year. It is
the presentation of the Dalhousie graduation play.

Who holds the honour of having
written the play? Surely none _ less
than Shakespeare! Not he? Then
Shaw, Galsworthy, Milne, Barrie—
none of these? Who then is it? You
forget the name? It is no one of importance.

The play itself beats out these words.
Only the talent of our players has
saved it from condemnation. Dalhousie
university, for its graduation play,
presenta “The Show-Off”! Why, Mr.
Editor, should we choose, for our public
appearance of the year, a play obviously
inferior to the plays we present throughout the year?

 

Yours sincerely,
PETER O. HEBB.

 

PRESIDENT OF SENIOR CLASS
ADVOCATES NEW SYSTEM

 

To the Editor of the Gazette,

Dear Sir:—Although this letter is only
pertinent to those graduating in Arts
and Science’ next year, I am taking the
liberty of using the Gazette not only to
reach those particularly interested, but
also to inform the Student Body of
Class ’30 plans for re-organization.
Briefly I will follow a class from their
Freshman to their Senior year to point
out the difficulties encountered in our
present class system. :

Freshman year, almost invariably
everyone joins his or her class, unexplainable, save that Freshman are
reputed to be quelible. In the Sophomore year considerably fewer join the
class—perhaps because they have acquired discretion enough to realize
that they did not get what they expected. In the Junior and Senior years
about twenty or thirty carry on the
class business, having paid or threatened to pay their $3 or $4 fees. This
small group, organized and _ calling
themselves a Class, nominate their
members for the Students’ Council,
elect Class Officers, their apportionment
to the Arts and Science Society, and
carry on the other class activities. It
decidedly is not a class but merely a
small group, interested in class parties,
who control all class affairs. The
reason for this unrepresentative group
calling themselves a class is readily
explained by the fees. Usually three
dollar fees have been considered essential
to carry on the activities of the Classes,
consisting of two or three class parties.
This is a satisfactory return only for
those who go to the parties, but it must
be remembered that there are those who
cannot afford to pay three dollars; there
are many who do not dance and naturally they do not join the class; women
do not join the class because attending
class parties depends on something

besides merely paying fees. As a result
perhaps 75% of the class are barred,
if not legally at least morally, from class
associations.

The Junior Class realizing that next
year, when they come up as Seniors,
they will not have a_ representative
class, as now organized, have consented
to discuss class re-organization. They
desire that next year the Seniors will
meet and make their class plans, not as a
small clique, but as a typical class. They
wish the Seniors to elect the Senior
officers and Life Officers; that during
Senior week, we will not meet as strangers but as class-mates with a common
interest. We do not want this spirit
only for class ’30 but also for the other
classes; and particularly we want the
Freshmen to go through Dalhousie not
divided, but united in all their activities.

We realize the difficulties—the other
classes have only the financial difficulty
—but we have an added problem of
again interesting those whom we lost in
our Soph. and Junior years. Briefly,
we will try to settle the financial problem
by having a class fee of 75cents or $1,
and the class social activities will be
paid by levies on those attenting the
socials. Those who do not attend will
not have to pay, nor will they be barred
from the general activities of the class.
And so each group will be in touch with
the other, and we will have a common
interest while we are at Dalhousie and
later when we return as alumni to our
Class Re-unions.

Tuesday, March 26, Class ’30 will
have a meeting to discuss our plans and
to elect Senior Officers and we appeal
to all next year’s Seniors to come and
help us for without the interest of all
we will fail. Thanking you for this
space in the Gazette in behalf of Class
"30.

PRESIDENT CLASS '30.

 

 

=
 

THOUGHT

Dusk and haze
And the soft wind crying.
Sun at the rim
And the dim day dying,
Hush and calm
And the sad soul sighing
For Life.

 

Night and stars
And a still moon sleeping
Stifled sounds
And a love loon weeping
Loneliness
In my heart is creeping
To stay.

; —E.R.B.
ee

INDIVIDUALITY

 

A common and eternal Self
Is hidden in us all;

Beside it my diurnal self
Is pitifully small.

There is no freedom here on Earth;
I work—and may be paid—
Bound in a private cell from birth
With chains that men have made.

Yet viewing our eternal Self

And all the vagueness of it,

I lapse to my diurnal self

And scratch the earth and love it.

—Don Murray.
THE WEAVING

 

All day I wove, and wove, and wove.
And all through the night long,

Wove thoughts and colors into words,
Wove words into a song.

A gay and splendid song it was,
And strong it had to be,

For I, with only that small song
Shut out reality.

—M. V. L.

=” Songs From + Golden

ery
Pens |

F

LAST YEAR’S SPRING

 

I have loved spring too wildly to forget

How the first, sweetness comes upon the
wind,

How the long twilights turn from green
to blue,

And the gray-armoured ranks of frost
are thinned.

I have loved spring too painfully to rest,

Knowing those things I knew so well of
old,—

Where in the bog the mayflower leaves

- are touched

With the late afternoon's low-slanting

gold.

But now I am tired, too tired to turn
again

Down the old luring paths; too tired to
care

Even the night wind blowing across my
heart

Seeks in vain for the old desire there.

Spring again in the world outside my
door,

Beauty and joy that I cannot see or feel;

But | have loved you too truly to forget,

Here in my memories last year’s spring
is real.

Florence M. Brewster.
sietesbetpeelchiletciecehiatl itched

MUSIC

 

The sea curving her white breast
The wave swinging its sullen crest,
Level of marsh where winds croon,
Lifting hills where skies rest,
Low sway of a dying moon.

A bird rising on curved wing,
A tree hushing its whispering,
Yellow of wheat where gold gleams,
Leaning spires where bells ring,
Pale sky where sunset dreams.

The stream nearing the old sea,
The sand hearing its melody,
Valley of dusk where leaves fall,
Gleaming heights where mists flee,
Dim note of a robin’s call.

—Lileen A. Cameron.

———— ne ee ST

Hillers

The new President of the Students’
Council has not yet delivered his inauguration address nor payed a visit of
good will to Shirreff Hall, yet we may
rest assured that in the former he will
announce his policies both destructive
and constructive, namely the breaking
up of the ‘Studley’ Bridge Union and
the prosecution of students who persistently cut the corners in the disregard
of those “Keep off the green’’ signs.
And let us add that ““HOOVER” thinks
he is going to make his good will visit in a
warship is mistaken—he is having a
special tank constructed.

Re te he

While perusing the bulletin board at
Studley we were shocked to notice that
there is still an urgent request for some
students to go to the MacDonald Library and have their ‘‘balances adjusted”.
Whether of a physical or a mental
nature is not specified. If the latter
then we should advise hasty action on
the part of these students because it is
getting late in the season. And we can’t
help wondering who is going to do the
balancing.

te fe

At a recent meeting of Psychology
3 Prof. Symons asked one of the ladies
for a definition of necking (a touching
subject we must admit). She said that
a few days previously she had asked
another girl (imagine that!) and received the answer that ‘“‘it’”’ was from the
neck up. Well this is food for thought
but we are still unconvinced about the
direction pursued after leaving the neck.
Somehow we feel that co-eds do not have
to be necked by “degrees’’,

XO

_Just now the Hillers are on the “‘qui
vive” for a summer job. Present indications point to a revolution in the
aluminum (accent on 3rd_ syllable)
world and if all those take agencies
who sup with the advance agent at the
Lord Nelson then the poor husband will
have an added expenditure. The sale
will be: patrimony, matrimony, alimony
and ALUMINONY.

*,
“¢

a ae

With reference to Eileen Cameron’s
article on ‘‘God”’ (now stop!—I know
you are expecting something éyhical—|
I'll fool you) and poem on ‘See no
Evil,” some might be inclined to attribute them to a sudden inrush of divine
light. But some people don't know
Eileen any more than they know hundreds of others.

|

 

 

There is a place somewhere between
waking and sleeping where you may
stop for a moment and think, see, and
feel as you have never thought, seen and
felt before. It is a spot half-way down
the hill where you pause for a moment
before descending into the enshrouding
darkness of the valley of sleep below.
It is illumined by a strange glow which
shows all things up in their proper
proportions and reveals many things
which our hours of wide-awakefulness
keep hidden from our eyes.

It was there one night that there
came to me the sensation of being in a
different atmosphere. It was as if at
the same time a picture was presented
to my eyes, while I myself lived as an
individual in the very scenes I was
observing,

A low sun descended slowly]into the
bay and touched the drooping, tawny
sails that rested upon the breast of the
waters with a last gleam of liquid gold.
Temple bells sent a thin thread of music
into the gathering shadows, and up
on the hill in the court-yard of the
queen, a night bird began to woo his
mate.

There were purple curtains within the
temple—shimmering silken curtains of
purple fire that guarded the image of
the goddess from the eyes of the profane.
Slim priestesses with anklets of gold and
silver moved about in the fragrant
semi-darkness, and through the open
door came the faint sound of wavelets
lapping on a pebbly beach,—the only
noise to disturb the hushed beauty of the
night. A worshipper knelt before the
shrine with grief in her heart for the
sorrow of another, mutely begging the
goddess to give relief and happiness to

— @ The Tragedy

 

     
  

 
  

  

Hallers

‘Sheba, you're wanted on the phone!”’

Sheba: “Oh it’s that fool again!” (to
the world at large).

“Hello dearest, I thought you were
never going to sall."’ (to the poor boob
on the phone).

fe fe ake

Practically all the girls are ready to
forgive Jack Bovyer all his sins—because he mentioned their names so
nicely in his last epic on the Hall.

om

XO

Why does Eileen get in such a rage
when the girls talk about ‘“‘fair curly
hair,and brown eyes’? 4 y ws 4
OG

Dot Rossier has decided that there is
“quite a lot’? to Fat MacKenzie, and

all his statements carry great weight.”’
as Ag A ee fe fe

There have been some bad cases of
love at the Hall this year, whether they
will prove fatal will be seen in the
marriage column. a

le fe oh

The seniors at the Hall had their
favorite professors in for dinner last
Sunday. ‘‘There’s no getting by the
fact that the way to a good mark is
through a prof's .stomach!"’ Shades of
Toronto!

kernal ice nei eticlaaigdl

SYMBOLISM
(More truth than poetry)

Spring has come, a%verdant scene.

Good-Bye, Good Luck
(Gazette in green)
Students working hard as
bees.
Lies Watching stars on} bended
knees,
PROPERTY MAN FOR GLEE CLUB
(Continued from page 1)
_ 8. The annual remuneration shall be
$125.00 to be paid on submission and
after official checking of the annual
inventory. It shall be divided $75.00
for the male student and $50.00 for the
female student.
Applications for these positions shall
be received by the Secretary-Treasurer

of the Council up to Friday March
22nd.

the little friend she loved. Suddenly
she broke into weeping and her sobs filled
the silence of the temple. When she
ceased there was a great hush, and
then the goddess spoke; not in words
but in sweet music that was softer than
the night wind and more fraught with
mystic meaning then the strange undertones of the sea. And this is what the
music said. “‘A life for the life of the
beloved, and your happiness for hers.
This is my law and so it shall be obeyed.
Happiness for your dear one and the
peace of the gods for you.’’ The music
passed, and there were only the rustling
of the silken curtain as the breezes stole
in, and the song of the night bird in the
courtyard of the queen. An ageless
joy filled the worshipper’s heart as she
arose and passed out into the darkness
and dawn when the cooling waters were.
A moment she lifted her eyes to the far
stars, and then the night stopped breathing as the wavelets washed up over her
brown, bare feet and the dark oblivion
closed above her heart.

And someone’s tears were dried as she
wandered alone in her garden, and her
soul was filled with hope for the gods
keep their word.

O my dear, my dear, it would be so
easy to do again. Only a moment of
darkness for me, and for you the gladness
I would so gladly give. But there would
only be a little more dust to be blown
about by the wind and another heart to
feed the spring flowers. For this is the
tragedy of tragedies, the old gods all
are gone who would wipe your tears
away.

Florence M. Brewster.

 

LL —————————————

 

COLLECTION of Musical Masterpieces including the
most popular compositions of Greig, Offenbach, Strauss,
Lange, Tschaikowsky, Mendelssohn, Godard, Mozart, Brahms,

Schubert, Handel, Rubinstein,
other great artists.

Price

ATELY

 

456-460 Barrington St.,

Beethoven, Chopin and many

$1.00

Halifax, N. S. |

 
eS eo eee

Everyone of us is fascinated by something different. We call it a hobby.
Mine has been the studying of names
and portraits. Portraits especially have
always fascinated me yet | have often
spent long hours discussing the value
of names.

What is in a name? Have you ever
seen newspaper articles which read
to this effect?—‘The jinx which has
followed for so many generations all
persons of the name of Bermleigh was
again evident last night when Howard
Lord Bermleigh’s eldest son was found
with a bullet in his brain.’ Does this
suggest anything to you—or are you
above entertaining superstitious ideas?

Names, after all, are curious things.
Personally I think we should take no
interest in them at all, but we can’t
help it. Burns despised the name
and rank, but loved the man as a man.
Yet we must admit that names do mean
something. My philosophy professor
stressed that fact more than once.

“Don’t you think it would be a
terrible thing,’ he would often say ‘‘to
give a French Canadian baby the name
of Alex O'Handley or to place on the
innocent shoulders of some new-born
German infant the patriotic appelation
of Murray MacGregor Rankine?” We
all agreed with the learned doctor that
capital punishment was too good for
such a heinous crime.

_ Not so very long ago, an old gentleman who had more money than he
could make use of, was struck by the
name of ‘‘Peaches’’ and wasted a small
fortune on its beautiful owner. , What
a cruel blow it would be to the movie
fans if their Barrie Nortons, Vilma
Bankys, Dolores Costellos, Mary Pickfords, Rene Adores, Rod LakRoques,
Ramon Navarros and hundreds of
others turned out to have the plain
simple names of Ralph Morton, Jessie
Gladwin, Madeline Page, Minnie Black,
Lillian Barnstead, Rod McLeod, Max
MacOdrum, Charlie Bennet (shades of
| blissful matrimony) or any of our
unromantic appelations. Rudolph Valentino’'s name was something to be
conjured with. Compare it with the
coldness of Tom Parker. Sara Jeanette Duncan forsook a truly beautiful
name to win success under Garth Grafton
What would have been the result had
she chosen Margaret Lowe. Thousands have done the same thing. I

 

 

»

know a beautiful singer—a Miss Mary

CARNIVAL TIME ON THE

 

FRENCH

Se " . Ti. ~ "™ h - ; x : 7 "ee 4
ty ie T ; 2 . het

aS _

- “THEY CALLED HIM

SAM!”

( es
Murphy. Her voice was sweet and
musical yet few attended her concerts.
Fortune changed when she did. Today
the world acclaims her as the great
singer Bello Gerard. Why even Elinor
Glyn’s magic name maybe nothing more
than Eileen Cameron.

Nicknames are interesting and have,
logically speaking, connotation. e. g.,
‘‘Jock” means marvellous medical knowledge; “‘Bennie” meant flowing hair and
flowing speech, today it means, God
knows what. ‘‘Horace’’ might be applied to anything from a Latin poet to a
Dalhousie professor. ‘Sina’ signifies
music—and how. ‘“Nick’’ is a term
used to designate ‘‘pretty decent exams”.
“Herbie” is another term for pluck.
“‘Toshie’”’ stands for a knowledge of the
rocks and ‘‘Archie’’ means Dalhousie.

Names are interesting things. Look
through the telephone Directory some
day—but don’t stop at Sackville 6534

y Lee,

 

 

“% Qreasures &
Ua

My brother and I owned an indiarubber ball. Every fine day we played
with it. He would toss this treasure of
ours over the roof of our home. I
stood on the other side and did my best
to catch it. Often it was lost in the
long grass of the meadow behind the
house. Then began a_ search. We
used many charms which were supposed
to mark its location. Always we found
it. One day we were playing our usual
game. The sun was bright and a
robin sang in the apple-tree. We were
very happy; for we were only children.
My brother called to me, “Comin’
over!”’ I lifted my face to the sun and
laughed. Life was so wonderful. Just
then the screen door opened and my
grandmother came out. The sun shone
on her white hair. She was tall and
I thought how beautiful she looked.

‘‘Eileen,”’ she said, ‘“‘your father has
been killed in the war.”

The india rubber ball came circling
over the roof. I watched its gleam in
the sun. | didn’t even try to catch it
and its black roundness fell into the
long grass. Though we often looked for
it we never found the ball again.

 

Aileen A. Cameron '29.

RIVIERA

 

In February, the towns of the south of
France are like a great exhibition. The
natives perform their little feats, and the
rest of the world comes to see them.
From England, America, and from the
other European countries, people come
| to watch the Carnival processions, to
enjoy the clear weather, and to eye
each other with curiosity. Of course,
there are many who visit the Riviera
year after year, who would not think of
watching a carnival procession. They
dash from the Ambassadors at Cunnes

to the Cafe de Paris at Monte Carlo,
| and spend busy days and feverish nights
in the casinos, playing boule, baccarat,
or roulette. But even if the carnival
fetes do begin to bore one after a while,
the ceremony is very amusing the first
time, and the delirious joy of the people
taking part is perhaps the most interesting thing about it.

Every year, in all the towns of the
French Riviera, there is a riotous tumult of pleasure for the eight days preceding the beginning of Lent. Nice,
since it is the largest town, makes the
most elaborate preparations, and on the
second Sunday before Nardi Gras, the
fun begins, with the enthronement of
King Carnival, the Monarch of Folly,
in his place.

The Fete began, before the middle
ages, but it was in 1578 that their splendour reached its highest point. Duke
Emmanuel Filibert spent February in
Nice with his son, the Duke of Piedmont.
Honori de Grimoldi, the reigning prince
of Monaco, desiring to present his sons
to the young prince, sent them to pass
the festive season that year were on a
very grand scale, the organizers trying
to surpass the pomp displaved on the
occasions of the coronations of the
Kings of France.

Each year the fetes recommenced,
and every February brought some
_*  innovation,—a new form of chariot,
‘i or a new type of missile. At first the

conventional things to throw around

were flowers and tiny bags of sweets,
| and one year the merrymakers went so
‘ far as to pelt one another with egg shells
. filled with blue, black, or red powder.
Now there are so many traditions and
customs connected with the carnival
that it is always the same type of thing,
though the decorated floats and chariots,
are new every year.

Motoring from Cannes to Nice, we
saw on the right the clear blue stretch cf
the Mediterannean, and on the left
beautiful villas of white, pink, or yellow,
surrounded by gardens of palms and
cacti. The flowers were not yet in
bloom and away off in the distance
gleamed the snowy hills of the Bous,
which seemed to make a barrier protecting the little cities of Cote d’Azur
from the north winds.

Passing through the town of Cannes
we noticed a large sign—Grande Ealle
des Poissons de Cannes—such an imposing name for the Cannes Fish Market!

farther on, it was announced on a
large sign board that at the Olympic

Cinema Buck Jones would perform in

“Te Roi d’Arizona”’. It was rather

startling to see these products of Americal advertising methods reposing among
_ the pines and cacti, but all along the
coast we found them.
Nice was packed with people—not
all Americans and English, as some
would have us believe. We parked the

_ car and walked around until lunch time.
es Even in the morning there were many

grotesque figures parading the streets,

 

 

Se ee ee ee ee

=

a

*

i.

   

 

and the predominating idea seemed to be

to cover oneself from the waist up with
as large a figure as it was possible to
carry. Accordingly, we were constantly
meeting eight, twelve and fifteen foot
creatures, with ridiculous little pairs of
leg:, and holes about the region of the
stomach, through which the owner of the
little legs could see the way—ugly figures, most of them—weird cats, eight
feet all, eight foot champagne corks
with heads, fat men five feet broad,
roosters, pigeons, and all types of animals
and men, beautifully made of some kind
of papier-mache, and all with ridiculous
little legs. Occasionally we caught a
glimpse of a large chariot, with more
papier-mache figures, carefully hidden
from view by a piece of awning. The
streets of Nice were decorated with
hundreds of wooden arches painted and
carved in the form of fruit and flowers,
and studded with electric lights for the
evening illuminations. In the streets
were many vendors of confetti and
serpentines, which have replaced and
old type of missily, and make less permanent wounds then the egg-shells
filled with coloured powder.

After luncheon, at two o’clock, we
took our seats in the Place Massena,
which, in carnival time, is like a rectangular football field with rows and
rows of tiny iron chairs, arranged in
tiers in the centre, as well as on the
sides. Along the track, or street,
came the chariots, led by King Carnival
in an enormous ‘“‘grand chair’. He was
followed by other floats and ‘‘petit
Chaos’, and then came cavalcades,
groups, and individual exhibits. In
between the floats, and during the whole
procession, hundreds of masked pierrots,
clowns, and harlequins went rushing
around throwing confetti at everybody
they met. The people who take part
in the procession are the working people
of the town, and the chariots are all
decorated by the different shops, industries, and trades.

It was rather amusing to see the
bands of masked revellers chasing the
onlookers. One elderly English couple,
quite obviously finding the crowds and
the continual shower of confetti rather
bewildering, made a splendid target.
A crowd of clowns and pierrots made a
dive for them and danced around them
until the poor dears were quite distracted
and such are the joys of the Carnival.

During the afternoon trained pigeons
were set free with serpentines tied to
their feet. They flew around making
figure-eights in the sky, and later, several!
hundred were set free at once and swept
around the Place Massena like a blanket
blowing and flapping in the wind.

In the evening people danced in the
public square, and the thousands of
illuminated arches made the city as
light as a ball-room.

The following Sunday the procession
was repeated, and on Mardi Gras, there
was to have been a grand climax, but a
storm descended upon the coast, and
instead of dancing on the pavements,
peonle were walking around in golashes
and furs,—up to their ankles in snow.
The burning of King Carnaval, which is
the final rite to be performed, had to be
postowe for a week, but eventually
e crumbled away successfully on his
funeral pyre, only to rise again, more
dazzling, next year.

EDITH MACNEILL,
Cannes, February 1929.

  
 

      

  

DALHOUSIE GAZETT

 

 

 

  

| g*

l@r2¢

 

FRENCH PLAY AT “GYM” ®CONDAY NIGHT

PARLEZ=Vous!

 

Ss TT

a ee ee eo

 
  
  
 

——

 

| << The ~ Old) Curiosity x Shop ) of « Dalhousie po

 

Inspired by the remarkable collection
of hirds and the arious curios of the
Dalhousie Museum).

‘Excelsior’ is now a sadly hackneyed
motto, nevertheless its application is
often very appropriate, particularly
where we do not expect it to be suitable.
Take the MacDonald Memorial Library
for example. Its interest to the average
student increases in direct proportion to
its height. The ground floor is an entrance hall, with bulletin-boards, for the
students. Upstairs is the magic land of
books with its swinging portals of crystal.
Up another flight is the chamber where
the kind sets in his counting house,
while at the very top is the realm of the
unknown, the land of fantasey.

There it was that I sat on an old
sea-chest and surrounded myself to the
enchantment of the museum, while
hundreds of images formed and dissolved
in rapid succession before me. On top
of a case there was a carved fragment
of some glorious, old ship, which shaped
herself before my eyes, inviting me to
come aboard and sail across the restless
seas of the world. First we came to
Nova Scotia, where there were great
gulls, white and gray, that circled round
the dream-ship or rested on the brooding
waters near the shore. On the firm
brown sands, wet with a curling edge of
foam, a hundred little birds ran to and
fro, darting back and forth, skipping
over the wavelets, their long beaks
pointed now up, now down. Suddenly
they vanished with a whirr of flashing
white wings—sanderlings, snipes, longlegged curlens, willets, sandpipes, busy
with important affairs.

My ship grew wonderfully smaller as
it entered the stream of a river and
wound between gray-green marshes,
where great bulrushes swayed in the
wind and long grass rustled. Longlegged cranes, herons with feathers in
their caps, strutted about or flew overhead, trailing their legs and crying
mournfully in the silence jof the lonely
marsh. Deep in the grass nestled softplumed swamp birds, safe in the midst
of grassy thickets. As we sailed further
up stream, the woods came marching

 

 

The average person does not understand the importance of peaceful international relations. The very food we
eat, clothes we wear and other economic
commodities are affairs dependent upon
international cooperation. Treaties are
made between countries to make possible
the importation of these things. In
orde+ to trade country with country
each must have a certaif standing in
world markets, This require’ position
is maintained by the observation of all
international obligations. Russia is an
example of a country which has failed
to maintai her position. Recent papers carri-:d the announcement

with her. The
warns against any such move. The
reason is because Russia is not dependable. The Soviet Government is reported to be playing unfairly in International affairs and it is suspected
cannot be trusted to pay its debts
“Cash on Delivery” is according to
attitudes of other countries the only
possible trade method to use with her.
This attitude of Russia has disturbed the
economic life of the world. Several
countries, Canada among the first, were
inter-dependant on Russia for trade;
now this balance has heen shifted. The
United States trades with this country,
but not as Government with Government.
concerns. T!
way of dealing with Russia; for they
say Russia reacts better under contemptuous treatment than if there was
the accepted equality between nations

SPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS #

go eaiees

 

that | She is the greatest nation of the Fur
Canada is about to reopen trade telations| East and the menace of the Pacific;
British Government!so that it behooves the West fo make

All trade is through private} $
The British commend this]

Aa
—— 4
‘7 y,

down from the hills to the river's edge,
and soon the tall trees, arching, met
overhead and shaded the rippling water.
The tiny rills and waterfalls, that made
any stream so tantalizingly beautiful,
rushed tinkling over great stones, but
the ship, now very small indeed, sailed
over them and entered the smiling still
waters of a woodland lake. Its brimming waters shone as blue as the sky,
ringed with sparkling white boulders,
like some magic liquid in a goblet of
alabaster. This was the home of the
ducks that abound in scores of species,
in colour and delicately marked plumage
as varied as the dappled woods. Here
a beaver colony lived and toiled, dear,
busy, wise creatures, the nearest of all
animals to man in their science of building. Far in the forest were. the shy
woodland birds—grouse, brown, stubbytailed woodcock, pheasants with odd
red eyebrows, a mother partridge with
her darling brood of bits of fluff, one
chick boldly perched on its mother’s
folded wings, the rest squatting low,
with their down just the colour of the
warm earth covered with moss. There
were hawks, too, fierce creatures, gripping helpless birds in their cruel talons.
The little feathered songsters hid away
when they heard the sharp cry of their
enemies. Flickers flashed their golden
wings among the leaves, while woodpeckers, of all sizes from the tiny sapsuckers to the great red-heads, drilled
busily on the tree trunks. Wisest of all
were the owls, huge, horned and _ bespectacled, bringing prey to the downy
owlets in a nest of twigs. There were
little owls with heads cocked to one
side, as wise as the seven wise men of
Greece, the feathered philosophers of
the forest. At last. we came to the
rough hill-top, bare and covered with
rocks, where grim-eyed eagles, the
fiercest of birds, circled round with
death in their yellow eyes and blood
on their claws. Yet their-love was
strong as they guarded the fluffy little
jones, stretching their necks and crunching the shells of their newly broken
prisons.
I then saw sleek, glossy ravens, whose
black plumage shone with a myriad of

S

 

 

 

Canada may reopen relations if she
wishes. Since the Great War her trade
treaties have been of her own making;
the opinion of the British Parliament
being merely advisory.

In the last few years a great nation
has arisen in the East, notably Japan.
Relations with this country today are
part of a clever foreign policy on the
part of the white races. They have by
their alliance with Japan taken her
into the great fraternity of nations.
She is treatec] as an equal among them.
Given this status Japan_has become a
friend instead of a potential enemy.

her a_ powerful friend rather than a
powerful enemy. From this example of
policy we are made to acknowledge the

 

ery of India: that the West recognizes
nothing but power. And it is true,
nothing was ever conceded the yello

race, except contempt, until the Japanese developed into a nation. (ad
This is an opportune moment to bring
the League of Nations into the discussion. The West recognizes power,
but it has wisely banded all power
together. Each and every nation n
the League is controlled by the CovenThus none ts greater than the
itht ion of the United

  

  
  
    

  
 

 

   
  
 
 
  
    

in women and children, opi
‘and other questions which
difficult to settle before ©
became the wide channel for
al relations.

  

  

affairs has been shown by =
Maritime colleges. The rece
Assembly of the Lage held at

was borin ¢

   

to the ide
mould world aifat
in contemporary »
hoagie peal. om
earts of people who

to solve

 

glinting colours, great brooding things,
those ravens, creatures of tl-omen.
No wonder Edgar Allan Poe was appalled
when a lone one came and perched upon
the bust of Pallas. My mind filled with
thoughts of the unhappy poet and his
life, then, like a flash, the name of
Pallas carried me to ancient Greece
and the shores of the Levant. In the
dream-ship again we sailed along the
coast of Palestine, past scorching deserts,
swept by hot winds and clouds of sand,
past white-towered cities asleep in the
quivering heat of noonday. Here I
saw old coins, wonderful things with
antiquity, lamps, tiny yet perfect, and
little heads carved in stiff Egyptian
style. There were also styli, Roman
pews, that were, even in the days of
Caesar, mightier than the sword, when
the pen was that of Cicero, and more
seductive than Cleopatia when wielded
by the whimsical amours of Ovid. The
glory of antiquity, of Greece and of
Rome can never wave despite the efforts
of the modern world to ignore its importance.

However, the gracious lady of the
museum-key could not wait for long
reveries, so the dream-ship was guided
swiftly across ‘the stormy Atlantic,
rounded Cape Horn, and rode up the
Pacific coast to Peru. We passed once
more from low-lying land to the heights,
and found a wonderful people, the
Chimus, who lived and wrought and
worshipped long before the splendid
days of the Lucas. They worshipped
the Sun, bringing libations in strangely
shaped pitchers that were made to the
likeness of their grinning household:
gods. What a strange thought it is to
dwell on the millions and millions of
tenants of this earth: their straining
efforts of civilization have vamished.

To complete the idea of ‘‘Excelsior,”’
there is a great globe, on which are
charted the constellations, showing the
wonders of the starry firmament that
bend above the littleress of me, who are
here one day and gone the next, leaving
behind what?—-a few coins—and bits of

pottery.
—A. M. P:

*

Before fhe League came into existence the Balkan states and war were
synonyms. So catefully and fairly
have nationalities béen divided that
peace has come to a tar If
minor disputes arise, av
arisen, the League is \b
action and a peaceful settlement is made.

Now the smaller nation is protected
by the greater, instead of being\
as in pre-war days. This i
function of the League.

t an organization to | Ve
the League has taken over such things
as International labour problems, traffic

   
 
 

  
 

  

 
 

 

   
     

   
  
   
  

MTT

     

League

ai

fe dt hat le today, students espe
are more iheenly interested ir

     
  
  
    
    
     
    
      

r
Sackville
his interest. The enthusbrought back ave“hope

ual ‘may

      
     
  
   
  

      
  

that the in

  
  

      
       
   
   
  
 

This is only a

but one look encourages

   

  

‘in fifty w |

        

but he
The t

| dormitory reclinin

   
   
   
 
   
    
    
  
    
 

Four o'clock in t

    
     
 

question
had been

nternation- |

Then one man rea C
down the battered su

terest sal eae é , . ’ *
j|.was transformed. Her eg’
wurages the|She stood a magnificey
are really trying] sit!
sent all} the Zip

nt an | Fy * i

“

* thee
oe / PY

t
+
¥

 
   
  
  
  
  

i Bebidd “tie Hate

 
  

in boudoir deshabill e
vivacity and fine swa:
noted on the campus
Never a big party was
not include her; she
best shows, took in all the
even the little ones that w
ane never ge ‘a pa
she was not happy. before there enh the b:
college elite, good music, ga
many admirers while the envy
of the fair sex bespoke her succes
—well, she had had a good
there was Mary Jacques, her roommate,
just average looking, only a few parties
and the odd dance, but quite happy and
contented. _The door opened and ios ini!
ing up, Aenid beheld the subject of her
thoughts. . ae
“Hello Mary.” | eee
aoe oe a seem. 3:
rather disconsolate tonight. Have you
no date?” | * ‘ aOR ‘
“Yes, the phone just rang but I
simply couldn’t be bothered. I'm sick
and tired of the grinding round of dates,
parties, planning, on the go, on the go.
Sometimes when I sit here in the room
waiting for a date 1 wonder where does
it all end, what does it mean, how long
will it last, what will I do when these
friends have gone away. Oh, yes they
will go away; they're not the kind that
stick to one. What will become of me
when I no longer attract men, when
these date sheiks are telling some other —
girl how much they love her.” ek. ae
“But, Aenid, surely you are |}
the time of your life, all these goodtimes,
these fine looking young men calling for
you in taxis to whisk you off to the best
affairs in town and at the college. © Why:
you are the belle of the campus! What
more could a girl want?” py) cae
_ “Yes, | know Mary. But what does
it amount to? How long would my
popularity last if my hairdressers’ bill,
my thillinery and dress expenses weren’t
more each month than any other girl’s
in the college? These ‘fine looking
young men’ would be calling some other _
phone number. Mary I want more out :
of life than to be just a clothes rack, a |
fine article on display. Oh! I don’t
know what's the matter but there |
something missing somewhere. I ha
everything I want but I’d give it allto
be happy and contented like you are. —
What's the trouble, Mary, why is it —
that I feel all empty and dissatisfied
like I do?” : oe Pea
“I don’t know Aenid, I'm sure. ‘Your — s
patrician beauty is not to be compared
with my very ordinary looks. In figure
you are slim and graceful while lam
twelve pounds overweight. You number your frocks by the dozen, mine can
be counted on one hand. Your boy
friends are legion and I have just Jack.” —
“Just Jack” > Titary; VONCCT “tt
that isn't the solution of the whole matter. I have noticed him with you a lot; *
a nice likeable looking chap. Do yo a
care for him, Mary?” : , oe
“Oh, we get along all right, I guess.” _
“Of course you wouldn't say. ‘Now
remember/seeing you dancing the moonlight waltzes together the other night. —
You must be in love to dance like t

   
 
 

    

 
 
 

  

 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  

  
   
   
 

  

        
 
 
 

  
 
 

    
 

ee

   
  

    
 

   
  

   

    
 

     
 

  

 
 
 
  
     
  

    
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
    
  
   
       
   
 
  
    
   
  
   
    
  
 

   

   

How I'd like to dance one of t
dreamy waltzes in the arms of a ma
loved and that I knew cared for r
[ wasn't asleep the other night
you e in so quietly and slipped
bed t® cry yourself to sk

ae e I knew that they were tears of
appiness. it ever [ weep it is because
of bitterness and disappointment. V
| wouldn’t give to be the queen of
man’s heart instead of the car

widow.” | Aa yet
Transient Beaut

The train was crowded.” Af
idious looking girl in a fur coat sto
the end of the car, and looked dis
fully about her. At last she sat |
near the door. Her eyes roved
her fellow passengers and came to
at last, on the face of the woman si
directly across the aisle. Untid:
most pathetic looking in an_ill-{
coat, she was the direct ea
ng

   

\
te

sh
: 7 4
4 Fe

         
  
 
  

   
 

7 ee
A
}

 
   
  

 
 

        
     
     
    

  

       
     
     
 
 
  
  
    
   
      
    
   

   
  
  

   

the girl. The man sittin

just common clay, but he wore an
service button. | oY Ws eee

      

  
  
 
 
  
      

   
  
 

   
   
    

; ee ee, :
Bits of conversation drifted ac
to the newcomers. — ling —

“leaving her little girl’ ant
stand it any longer’’ was the gist
disconnected sentences. =
The girl’s attention wandere
on earth was keeping tl
long. She felt ‘Habe
another half-hour in bed it
been better than| just sitting
ungodly hour to catch a train
Suddenly the appeara
nolicemen aroused the sl

  
  
 
           
       
      
    

   
   
   
      
       
     
 
 

    

   
    
    
  

   

(Mi
t

  
  
   
        
  

  
   
      
    
   
   
   
  
   
     
    

ae had better con

wondered why she

  
 

 
 
 
 

     
 

alee, Tes
pogo? Es gem E

iti 4
file tah
a ie

ty 7
Ve i

j

7 # 35)

a
  

}
4
fr

    
   
  
  

 

 
   
  
   
 

   
  
    
 
  
  

   
    
  
   

Se
Saal)

uv ae
. ’ Tar af
ae a P SiMe ~\, ‘, | - ir ‘

" Sy ie

 

Z 5 eae oa ee,
ee eee wes ea
ih. ae boa

Fst <
erates 14:
eep! 3

Re ha Weak ‘
— aa i ON san a 4 an hd
Pe i

rk
‘ew

  
  

 

ificance of
addendum

| ase: what is the si
that hackneyed, nominal addendun
_B. A.? Vulgar sentiment associates it

   
 

with almost limitless knowledge but the
college graduate (and he should be

pass worthy judgment)
often considers himself at an
ectual level scarcely higher than
1 of his less erudite a praisers!
“WHY? Indeed, winning a degree in
_ Arts seems to be a process of deorientation, as the goal looms nearer the prize
_ depreciates in subjective value. Un_ doubtedly the ardor of the applicant for
a B. A. is greatly effected by the prin
ciple of diminishing utility. WHY? If,
iv oo dh seman monstrating that he
_ has a forty percent

knowledge of a
Y i diversity of subjects, he
obtains a B. A., he finds he is qualified
for nothing—except it be to act the role
: of an intelligent listener, certainly not
- that of an instructive conversationalist.
Now does this mean that the so-called
‘“uneducated’’ masses are gradually
learning to accept the University student on his real rather than on his face
value? Well these are some of the
queries and I doubt if the answers are
far to seek. 4
Officially the Freshman is an untutored, undeveloped, uncultured, disinterested youth eet, a Philistine),
and it is the bounden duty of the Univetsity Faculty to prepare the soil, and
having done so to disseminate the seeds
whose fruit is much knowledge. Failing
in this they must at least arouse some
interest in the student even though it
be only in the opposite sex. This is all
very excellent in theory but only too
often a miserable fiasco in practice.
_ The expectant youth looking toward a
free course to the fuller life, suddenly
finds he is still fettered by compulsory

classes and forced to follow a definite }

groove which may or may not be the
eTTaicht and narrow path to Success—
Por him. Something might be said here
in favor of compulsory classes but
space will not permit of such discussion,
either pro or con. At least two years
of comparative freedom of choice remain, and during this period the student
has an opportunity of redeeming himself,
the faculty, and the reputation of the
college. If his enthusiasm and aspirations, and especially his natural aptitudes have not been nipped in the bud his
ultimate success or failure is on his own
head and the faculty must be absolved
from all responsibility in the matter.
‘Two alternatives are open to him: he
may complete his course by taking
‘one ot two classes in each of a ie
f subjects or he may take a group ¢
sses in only a few subjects. in either
. he is bound to remember perfectly
4 few of the fundamental principles
ed in the subjects studied (unless
‘inues his work extramurally),
As le will find it far less ser~" viceable to have a quasi-particular
knowledge of say three subjects,
‘than to have a “bluffing” knowledge of seven or eight. It seems
‘then, on analysis, that the worth of a

_B. A. degree does not lie in the twenty |)

classes the applicant manages to “get
off’. Superficially the logical remedy

is to subtract the classes. Let this be

done by all means if it can be done

without subtracting the students as

well. It can’t. To delete the classes
is to erase ‘the college!
Is a B. A. the bunk? Intrinsically yes:
extrinsically NO! The intrinsic value of
classes may be (in my, opinion—ts)

practically nil, buy their indirect value

may be inestimable—if they produce
a man who THINKS and READS,
‘At last, after a tedious exordium [|
have come to it—the crux of the whole

question—the part whose importance

presses all else into deepest shadow.
- Nearly every student is culturally
-developed to some extent and gets a
‘broader outlook on life from his term in
‘college; he gains social poise (finds
‘himself)' from his associations with
students of every rank; he becomes
more and more critical; he increases: in
self-control and self-confidence—but all
these by-products merely adumbrate the
‘truly great creation—the faculty /to
think. Someone has said, “the man
ho -never changes his, opinion is ‘like
nding water and breeds reptiles of the
W inne . man wa j doesn’t

ides the raw om:

But surely eve

a

“a ?
ee es i.
cy

_| the ostensible excuses protecting
| man who may waive opportunities to
jaccept lucrative

  
 

‘ ‘he
to think for himself gets into a
» eg and never gets pa of ith:
ng presupposes reading-—
Meicciss so

A

. rery . *
e-one all-sufficient | the girls like cur
poring classes|there’s Benny.

are | well!

    
  

   
 

ead! tek
Ly ters - ;
em We ae

. A.?

the

sitions, and who
sacrifices four of the best years of his
life and spends some $2500 for the
privilege of doing some desultory,
tuitional reading. Trickery and cajolery must be resorted to and classes are
the highly tinted petals which attract
the bee to the honey. It would be
absurd to expect men and women to
congregate in and around a building
for four years, to read, and offer no
reward at the end; so it was decided
that lectures incidental to the reading
should be delivered at specified hours
on specified days, and that after a student had subjected himself to a certain
number of these and had attained a
certain standard in bi-annual questionnaires, he should be fully qualified
to sign himself, Mr. Blank, B. A.

Now if you have agreed with me so
far the rest is easy. You must’see that
classes are a necessary evil, but at the
same time they are the —BUNK!
Let us seek wisdom in reading. “‘It is
better to°speak ‘wisdom foolishly, like
the Saints, rather than to speak folly
wisely, like the Dons.” The man or
woman whose B. A.’s are nothing more
than affidavits that they have attained
a certain standard in each of twenty
classes, are creditors to the University;
but the men or women whose B. A.’s
signify an unquenchable thirst for reading are rewarded a hundred fold and
owe more to their Alma Mater than they
can ever hope to repay.

—+G. A.B.

o Se Te A®Res °

Who Have Lighted
the Dal Campus

—_e eo

wy York. DD,
Who are the stars of Dalhousie?
The Dalhousie firmament is studded
with the bright planets that shone
throughout the year that is now drawing
to a close.
Murray Rankine! Murray has attained the heights of honor and glory.

 

f,| Five years a council mernber, president

this year. Malcolm Honor student,
executive offices galoré—here is indeed
a star which will never fade.

Sina Singer. /alhousie’s mighty
man of music! The University owes
him a great debt for he put her on the
musical map of the continent. His
tireless efforts have made an impression
here at will /ast. Another bright star!
Singer’s work is absolutely outstanding.

Whacky MacKinnon. Still another
star and bright. President of Sodales,
President of the Law _ Fraternity:
tall, handsome, athletic and a lawyer—
oh well,

Speaking of the Presidents we naturally think of secretaries. ;

George MacIntosh. Council member for several years, Secretary this
year, possessor of Literaty ‘D’’, basketball manager for a fev years, all round
sportsman, isn’t that enough for stardom?

And Tom Gofiin. Ah! Another lawyer with a reputation—but fortunately
though strangely, a good reputation.
Good student, great chap, Tom is
one of the most popular boys at the
Law School. And perhaps there hasn’t
“been quitea bit of debating this year.

And the two genial ‘‘Dpces’” MacKenzie and Jennings. ‘Thé one a’Council
member and this Yeap’s Malcolm Henor
Student—the other /President o/ next
Year's Council and future representative
1 of the Council to.the N.F. C. U.S,

But who's this? Bill Wickwire—
and he landed,among the other stars
with a crash. Footballer, hockeyist,
president ofthe D. A) A. C.,. geodooking—and who said Bill Wickwire
knew no law? \

And vhis right hand man—Jobn
MacQuarrie—another lawyer and another exception to the general rule.
Brilliant course in Commerce, brilliant
course in law—competition for Smith
Shield, plays Inter-faculty sport ard
comes from Westville.

Oh well—let’s go on—the lawyers
win the day. Ralph ‘*Kelly’’ Morton
—Editor.of the Year Book, last year's
Gazette Business. Manager, star of
“Show-off’’, Class prophet, and, d
and—— |

Ah, back to the dentists! George
MacLeod, footballer, captain, of Basketball teem, next president D. A. A. C,
dark aad handsome and from Cape
Breton. ay s

Another member ior’ _/. B. is Harold

hoopster, next year’s D. /A. A. C. Vicepresident and perhaps
ike his looks?

Archie MacDonald, star footballer,
nevt year’s Basketball/ manager—quict,
unassuming—and popular

Cherlie Jones kept
game ‘‘time and

  
 
  

And Charlie,

wee.

‘““Davy’’ Davidson—foo jball star and.
he girls don’t

the Tigers in the

' ‘
i¥

 

WITH ERNIE

jim ei bk x. ee ae a ,
te SU g 6s a a ae
4 i. asf": ; \ eee

 

 
     

:

 

 

HOWSE

TO NEWFOUNDLAND

 

Note—

Here. beginneth the tale of three
reckless young students who recently
left the seclusion of university corridors
and, on warfare bent, adventured to the
distant regions and unknown hazards of
Newfoundland. No diary was kept
but here are some remembrances:

March 5th, Tuesday. Jost, Cooper
and myself boarded the S.S.Rosalind
and left Halifax about 2 p.m. Cooper
was on the ocean for the first time in
two years, myself for the first time in
five years and Jost for the first time at
all. We very’quickly adapted ourselves
to the sea but were not altogether without casuality. We were reminded that:

“There was a young man from Ostend,

Who vowed he’d hold out to the end,

But when half way over

From Calais to Dover

He done what he didn’t intend.”’

March 6th. In the evening we
assisted at a ship's concert in aid of the
Permanent Marine Disaster Fund. The
ship was rolling terribly. The pianostool, odd chairs, numerous beer bottles,
and a miscellaneous assortment of gramophone records intermittently indulged
in a sort of lively ‘‘Musical Chairs’.
What happened to the passengers we
shall mercifully omit. But there were
many informal exits and entrances.
The Chairman acknowledged the fact
that we were a small crowd and under
difficulties and added that considering
these things he had never seen a concert
like this one. We suspect he was hoping he never would again.

March 7th. We landed at St. John's
and were received by members of the
M.C.L.O. These conducted us to the
Newfoundland Hotel a new building
about the size of the Lord Nelson. There
we were entertained at a luncheon
where we met our prospective opponents. We were much taken with their
jolly, informal, manner, and the thoughtful kindliness with which they had
arranged for our comfort and pleasure.
After lunch Mr. Puddester of the ‘‘Daily
News" and Mr. Drover, one of our
opponents, drove us around the city
to various places of interest. We met
Mr. Paton of the Memorial College,
Mr. Hogg of the United Church College,
Mr. Russell, general manager of the
Newfoundland Railways, and some
other interesting people. Then we were
entertained at supper, again with our
opponents and other members of the
M. C. L. I. (Methodist College Literary
Institute) at the home of Mr. Currie
publisher of the ‘‘Daily News’. On
this evening we were taken to a theatre
party at the Casino, where the GlossopHarris Company were playing ‘‘Julius
Caesar”. The play was well acted
and we enjoyed it greatly. Afterwards
the whole party went to the home of
Mrs. Lawrence—mother of Muriel Lawrence of Shirreff Hall—for a pleasant
visit and a delightful lunch. This was
our fifth meal since the morning. We
concluded a full day.

March 8th. The day of the great
conflict. The morning was passed quietly. This was the lull before the storm.
On the afternoon we visited the hall
where the debate was to be held. We
learned that there had been sold four
hundred seats at a dollar apiece and two
or three hundred more at a lesser price,
also that arrangements had been made
to broadcast the debate. We went
back to the hotel in a state of doubtful
anxiety.

Came the evening. Mhe hall was
crowded and a radio audiénce many
times as large was waiting -unseen.
The chairman, Mr. Barbour, gave us a
very friendly welcome to the city and
the society and then left the floor to the
combat.

Roy Gushue led off for the affirmative.
He prefaced. his ‘remarks by saying
that as he was an ex-student of Dalhousie and as his opposing leader was an
ex-member of the M. C. L. I., whoever

!atorical and quite popular.

 

 

He called
on an imaginary succession of witnesses
from notable figures of the past and
quoted their opinions. He maintained
that was also had hindered progress
by killing off as many young men who
might have contributed to progress.

Mr. Jost came in as the last defender
of the negative. He instanced periods
of progress and periods of stagnation
successively and pointed out that the
former had been warlike and the latter
peaceful. He also pointed out that the
peaceful nations of the world had been
the static and the warlike had been the

rogressive citing the Chinese and the

nglish as examples. He made some
neat and taking replies to Mr. Drover.

After the speeches came to an end
there were seven-and-a-half minute
rebuttals by the leaders. I spoke first
and then Gushue closed the debate.
Here again we received some stabs from
the arrows of his not unpleasant sarcasm.
Gushue was quite apt in pointed replies.

While the judges were deliberating,
a piano duet was given after which the
chairman announced the decision: two
to one in our opponents favour. We
joined with their friends in the audience
in offering congratulations to the victors.

Altogether we enjoyed the debate
very much. There was a complete
absence of “‘mental hostility” throughout. Our opponents were good debaters. They were good winners. And
we are sure they would have been just
as good losers.

After the debate a banquet was given
us in the Newfoundland Hotel, at which
our judges and the members of the
Institute were present. When the toast
to the visiting team had been concluded
the Chairman presented each one of us
with a souvenir of the occasion: a pen
knife with handles having Labradorite
set in silver. That was a final and
altogether unexpected touch of the same
graciousness which had made our whole
visit a continued pleasure.

March 9th. Jost and Cooper sailed
for Halifax while I remained behind to
visit my home for a few days. Our
friends were at the steamer to see them
off. Just on the eve of departure we
saw the picturesque scene of a disabled
steamer being assisted into port by a
rescue ship. Then the warning whistle
blew and Jost and Cooper ended their
visit to Newfoundland.

This is just an outline of one of the
most delightful trips any debating team
ever had. It was soon over, but will
not be soon forgotten. We shall have
pleasure in remembering Mr. Gushue,
Mr. White and Mr. Drover our unassuming conquerors, Mr. Currie, Mr.
Puddister, Mr. Parkins, Mr. Barbour,
and all the other gentlemen who were
an example to us of how charming
hospitality can be.

Dalhousie is indebted to the M. C.
L. I. for the honor of being the first
Canadian University to send a debating
team to Newfoundland, and we who
were lucky enough to be chosen, were
honored at being guests of the oldest
debating society in the historic capital
of Britian’s Oldest Colony.

 

On Farming

AS AN OCCUPATION FOR UNIYVERSITY STUDENTS

 

By P. L. H. MUSCHAMP

I return to my pet subject. No doubt
you will forgive me, for the spring is
in the air, the brown earth drinks in the
sun and frets with eagerness to grow
green things. Soon the farmer will
go out to his fields, where the crows
in’the morning sun flutter to and fro
over the steaming soil, to plow and sow
and dream of a rich harvest. And my
heart is with him, and with the cattle,

lost both of us would be on the winning | the sheep, and the horses, and \-. h

side. Then he presented a cautious,
clever, logical, opening, for the argument
of his side. His speech was lit kere and
there with flashes of wit, and he amused
both the ‘audience\ and ourselves by
several oblique thrusts in our direction.

After Gushue had’ about persuaded
the audience that it required a grave
deficiency in intelligence to listen to any
arguments in favour of war it was my
turn to speak for Dalhousie. Each of
the leaders had twenty minutes at his
disposal so I put in mine with as much
valiance as T could muster.

Mr. “William White was the second
speaker for the affirmative. He had a
well prepared argument dealing mainly
with the great war. It was. well received by the audience and the M. C. L, I.
had two good speeches chalked up for
its side. | \

Mr. Cooper now tame to the rescue

and spent fifteen effective minutes
dealing with the influence of war in the
Winning of our modern democracies and
democratic institutions. He made a
neat touch by pointing to the wall where
the War Memorial Tablet listed the
names of those who had died ‘‘for liberty and freedom”. He asked if that
were entirely a delusion. |

Mr. Drover closed the case for the
affirmative. His style was quite ‘

{

 

ae

everything that flutters, and everything

that grows around the farin.
Have you ever serious}

farming as a_ profession}

thought of
But it is

hardly a matter to think about, it is a

matter to try out, fairly, with an unbiased mind. Just give yourse:f a chance. Why not go out onia farny for the
summer? The farm needs your -help.
Your health needs the farm.

In the past it has been Nova Scotia's
greatest misfortune that her ambitious
sons, aware of the stigma that rested
upon agriculture, aware of their own
fond parents’ glorification of the white
collar, left behind not only the paternal
homestead—crying for further development—but all too frequently also their
native land, in order to seek ‘‘easy”’
and ‘‘respectable’’ octupations in the
big cities. Throughout the world, however, and in Nova Scotia especially,
the attitude to farmers and to farming
is rapidly changing. People are beginning to realise that a good farm,
scientifically managed, is a constant and
secure source of profit, of health, and of

eneral happiness to the owner of the
arm. +

No, I am no idle dreamer steeped in
Rousseau. I speak from hard earned
experience. I came to the conclusion
while working on my own bit of land

7
%

i Wai! w7Pes i Ne ihe ss "a , +
r 1 7

i tal Mi aidinge Soria
i, Miler an wile mPa ree
ie a ie ol ace

, A
i

 

a

 

1930+ SA"

 

 

  
 

_M

  
 
   

= em

Tt " _
q

 

22nd, 1929 _

  
 
     

   
  
  

¥

 

A SENIOR’S CONFESSIONS!!

 

When I was a small child I used to
shun every book that was written in the
first person. No matter how _ interesting the title or how fascinating the
illustrations, it was only another “I
story’ to me. But I hope that these
confessions will not be condemned,
unread for the same reason. ‘‘Confessions’’ cannot help being personal, but
if one does not like ‘‘that sort of thing,”
the rest of the Gazette will, I’m sure,
prové interesting.

It is ‘queer’ to be a Senior. One
hasn't any of those highfalutin, lordly
feelings that a Freshman ascribes. to
Seniors. Years pass quickly, especially
when they are happy or busy, and if
it doesn’t seem possible that the fatal
day is so near. Graduation has always
seemed distant—wonderful and interesting, but incalculably remote. In
the uneasy days of the First Year it
seemed the highest point toward which
anyone could strive unutterably sublime
and unutterably remote. Through Sophomore and Junior years it still seemed
far away, but now that the examinations
are posted and the date set, Convocation is almost upon us.

Four years! Four years of English
and French, Latin, History, Mathematics
Chemistry and the rest. Twenty classes
equal one degree; four into twenty goes
five times; five classes a year, four
years of college life—and what is the
answer? an education? No, for education
never ends; a vocation? not that, an
Arts degree gives me no training for
earning a livelihood. But I have received something which I consider
invaluable; and that is a desire to know.
With it there is the corresponding realisation of how little I do know and the
utter impossibility of knowing everything. I hope I shall always want to
know.

When I came to Dalhousie in the
fall of 1925 I thought that everything
in the university was perfect. The
buildings were fine and impressive;
it made me tremble with delight to think
I went to classes in them; the Reading
Room in the Library was high and
beautiful, and I loved to study there;
the professors were distinguished looking and so learned; I looked on them as
demigods who knew everything and
whom no humble Freshman like myself
dared to approach. When the Christmas examinations came I was in mortal

fear of being “plucked”—delightful
word to .my strong, loving ears! I studied hard during my first term; it would
have been an everlasting humiliation to
disgrace myself in the eyes of one of the
demigods.. My relief at “getting through" was equalled only by my laziness
during the rest of the term. When the
year was over and I had passed, I felt
that Dalhousie was even more wonderful and that I was wonderful too. Everyone I met that summer knew that I was
a prospective Dal graduate.

That was three years ago, when I was
a mere infant. My ideas have changed
since then; I have been outside of Nova
Scotia and I have grown three years,
I am now convinced thatfDalhousie has
not the finest buildings in the world;
that the Library has its defects and that
even the professors are not the walking
encyclopedeas I thought them. I have
discovered that it is a physical impossibility to know as muchas I attributed
to my professors; but I have also discovered that though they are-not demigods as I deemed them, they are what is
better, men. Though they -have the
frailties that go with the human frame,
though their lectures may be occasionally uninteresting and sometimes
boring, they, as men are, for the most
part, possessed of that ‘‘sweet reasonableness’”’ which is an attribute to few
members of the human race.

It is the same with most of the objects
of my admiration. The superhuman
qualities which | expected and thought
I saw and which I held in the greatest
awe now seem silly. It is a different
kind of admiration which I have for
now, a truer kind, I think. They have
taught me to work—I already knew
how to play. For that instruction I
am grateful, but I have even more for
which to thank them, and that is.a
different way of looking at things.
Every subject and every professor has
helped to give me a broader viewpoint—
Chemistry, Latin and Biology as well.as
History, English and Philosophy.

Asa Senior I have come. to realise
the greatness of my debt to Dalhousie.
In spite of the pangs there were compensations even in Mathematics and
Latin. Far from being -wasted. the
four years have been invaluable to me.
May all seniors feel the same!

M.E.E.

  

 

(Continued from last week)

I looked up at the clock to note the
time and found it was getting late.
As I gazed at its face I wondered whether
it ever grew weary of keeping time for
the library denizens. There it stood
above the fireplace with a cupand a
flag on either side and kept ticking
away throughout the years. What
strange faces it must have seen and
what curious looks have been darted at
it since it began its life in the Reading
Room.

The flags then caught my roving
glances. Why are they hanging there?
I smiled as I thought of the number of
times I.asked myself the same question.
Why should we allow the appearance of
the room to be spoiled by these two dirty

that a man fully educated, scientifically
trained, and artistically minded could
fully appreciate, and benefit by, the
life on a farm. So I came to Dalhousie.
And now I am becoming more and
more convinced that our Nova Scotia
farms of the future will for the most
part be owned and managed by university graduates. And why not indeed?
It is no vain boast to say that the farmer is the backbone of each country.
Has not civilization been built up from
the soil's surplus? Take away the
farm and the town collapses.

Unfortunately Dalhousie does not
offer a course in scientific agriculture.
But while it is to be hoped that such a
course, with a degree of Bachelor of
Agriculture, will in time be given,
such is not immediately essential to
successful farming. Anyone who has
acquired systematic habits of thought
will be able to learn by experiment and
study, all that he will need to know for
the profitable management of his farm.

At all events, find out first whether
there is an agricultural instinct latent
in you. To do that you need no scientific training, but some practical experience. And now is the time to think
about it. As an occupation for the
summer holidays farming may not be
very renumerative. But the wages are
pure gain, few can save more by working
in an. office. And who knows but you
may be so fortunate as to discover the
joys of the farm, the field, the rustic
fireside, and learn to relish all the wholesome work which farming implies.
Who knows but you may become a
prosperous and independent agriculturist, secure in your own holdings, rejoicing in its creative activity, appreclative of its potentialities—all for the
mere fancy of looking into the matter
this coming summer.

Student’s & Fantasy

By J. Louis Dubinsky

 

 

    

 

torn pieces of cloth? Surely two Dalhousie banners with the U-Pi D slogan
would produce mucha better effect. Few
of us realize the value of these tattered
remnants, few of us know the story connected with these Vierkleurs. As I
sit here I can picture once again the
dangers encountered by the two intrepid
Canadians who risked their lives in
order to bring back a relic of that
struggle of almost thirty years ago.
True, our library is starved to the
bone!—but we have certain possessions that are priceless.

As I roused myself from my reverie
I found myself gazing at the upright
figure of George Ramsay, Ninth Earl
of Dalhousie. My eyes wandered from
the portrait over the door to that of
Forrest, to Avery’s, to those of the
Youngs but it seemed I could think of
none but that of Fondator Nestor.

His bearing is that of the trained
soldier, for Lord Dalhousie had seen
war at close quarters. of This man whom
we are so proud is known to the world
chiefly for three reasons:

He was the close associate of another
noble man, Sir Walter Scott; he gave birth to a son whose name became famous
over the world in connection with the
rise of India;and he laid the cornerstone of an “Old Building” on May
22, 1820 and gave it his name of Dalhousie. His faith has been cherished
for more than a century.

The shadows lengthened and I settled
back comfortably. Just as I began to
doze off I heard a laughing voice say:

“Sorry, old man but you'll have to go.
The Library closes at 6 o'clock”.

I arose and with a sigh of regret left

the scene of my fantasies.
Editor's note: This concludes the first
of a series of observations on the Library.
Mr. Dubinsky has also written a series
of articles on the statues and other
interesting features of the Library, the
publication of which will be left to next
year.

 

 

BETTER BEGIN TO ‘DO,

Everywhere around us we hear peopl
talking about exams; but why mention
them at all—no one is likely to forget
to appear the day he is due at the torture chamber.

We all know they are handy—but
why—my fellow sufferers rub it in?

“Do” and stop talking about ‘‘all you
have to Do’’. It is one way to hasten
disasters to be always talking about
them. It reminds me of the old French
proverb: ‘‘A force de peindre le diable
ure les murs, il finit par apparaitre in
personne.” (If you will go on painting
the devil on the walls, it will end by his
appearing in person).

 

 

+ i
+P

ay

 
   
   
  
 
  
    
  
   

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  

    
  
 
 
   
    
   
 

i ia
<7]

:,

     

oo
e,

»
me a Vie
op

Writs
ie

vy

Pinan ile: The ae

, a .
ee ee
Gata

+
; #.4
: Be
Fe»
4 oe
ie
%

i

uN ieee

ae
| oo
*
os.
;

7

%
pi:
»

}! ae ; - the Kappa |
by am tos
university has ever appealed to
_as able to maintain six sororities and yet

» rr
1 ‘

¥

college.”

:

ne 1.
Lhe
1 pt

_ original motives of the

7 ¥ F
’
, aes
‘ol @,.
> “=

| To the Editor of the
Wd

 
 

==
LA
Oh” REPLIES

:

 

; Dalhousie Gazette.
| As this is the last edition of the Dal
+ at| housie Gazette, the editor has most

SUL Dr

students of the univers!
many

=

heated discussions

yf girls are opposed
ies and expecially

5 place it is again st the
alhousie. yamma
so that all Dalhousie girls
» and never have cause to
the chief argument against
Tt is apt to give rise to
ess and all the bad effects of
ess. With the een :
rorities people are bound to be
ed Be ae nerhie) and others be

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
    
    
  
  
  

pie ‘alled and so some will feel them
“to be better than the common
aint nee will feel that they are
ed down upon. And therefore sororite
7 .e between friends as has been
y in the brief existence of

eta Phi Sorority at Dal
   

    

  

r
j

Besides this there is another conSekt 1 do not think that this
anyone

since the Kappa Beta Phy Sorority was
a ned six sikets have cropped up.
It will indeed be a touching sight, seeing
six sororities trying to gainer an existance
on the campus where everyone is so

: im _ superfluously wealthy.

And then we come to the vital questjon. Why was this sorority formed?
‘In the account of last week’s Gazette
I find the words: ‘“‘whose sole aim in so

doing was to arouse enthusiasm and
- spiri inine faction at
spirit among the feminine fac

Passing over the fact that

Dalhousie co-eds scarcely consider themselves a faction it seems to me that the
enthusiasm and spirit has so far only
‘taken the form of strife and bitter
feelings. And therefore this reason is
hardly enough for having a sorority at
Dalhousie. Through it such were the
sorority they do

the founders honour, but since the
desired objective has not been attained

in this way the members of the sorority

will doubtless see that this is not the
proper way and drop the whole scheme.

On. the other hand if there are yet
more reasons for the existence of the
sorority that make it impossible for it to
be broken up, what can they be? The
article in the Gazette mentioned no

others. but perhaps some can be found.

_
‘

- sy : a

&.
ule
vi
.!

Atk

wen

Ta!
am
rari
oa

*
’
’
mae
;

py,
>

 

meet

ae

Nei LI

   
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
     
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

ution.

- from Delta Gamma.

to

Ts it because they wish to have banquets
every week at the Queen Hotel? This
seems an insufficient reason. Perhaps
it is a new form of bridge club; but then

one of the leading members has every
opportunity to play

bridge all day long
without forming a sorority. No, it
cannot be for any reason of this nature.
Perhaps it is an attempt to be like some
other colleges. That is the only solIf this is the reason I bow to
such a weighty one.

But we return again to Delta Gamma.
As I have already said, one of the motives
for the founding of Delta Gamma was
to take the place which sororities occupy
in other colleges. But every girl of the
sorority being a Dalhousian will therefore be a member of Delta Gamma.
But surely this is an inconsistency. How
can one Laguiably belong to a society
which is opposed to sororities and yet
belong to a sorority too? Have these
pioneers resigned from Delta Gamma?

There is this consideration which is
favourable for sororities at Dalhousie.
Delta Gamma has in the last years not
been very active but before giving up
Delta Gamma as lost, why not try something in the way of reform. Has every
one of the new sorority supported Delta

~Gamma whole-heartedly, for it is obvious
to everyone that unless there is some
cooperation no society will ever be a
success. If they have given all the
time and energy to Delta Gamma that
they are giving to this new sorority and
have not ad their efforts attended with
any siiccess they are fustified in resigning
But have they?
Again the members of Delta Gamma
as such are opposed to sororities. But
have the founders of Kappa Beta Phi
ever given their fellow members of Delta
Gamma an inkling of their intentions.
Have they ever given them a chance
ress an opinion on the subject or
the chance to cooperate in an effort to
make Delta Gamma come up to the
expectations of the Kappa Betas.
ett has all been oa Saget =
only apparent reason being that they
wished to be well established before any
objections could be raised. Aside from
that however one of their members has
een elected to the Students’ Council
before the rest of Dalhousie knew that
ie belonged to a sorority. We do not
w what the issue of the elections

 
 
    

   
 
 

a
i

“~<
\
;

;

| have been if everything about the

ty has been known to the college

and. Does the Council of Studyear therefore represent the

Not only have the students been kept
1orance of the project but the whole

ter having been carried over the head
ean of Women of this university

ef ie “ men a cee
insult to her position that she was
we oor te be on the subject.

ish to be unjust to the

  
   

\e reason for this is

   
   
 

Delta Gamma

     
 

   
   
  
  
   
   
   
     
     
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

    
  
  

kindly allowed me to read before hand
the letter which is being sent in by Catherine Olding Hebb and has given me
the opportunity also of writing a letter
concerning this Sorority affair.

Hiss Hebb has stated that a large
number of girls at Dalhousie are opposed
to the idea of Sororities in general, but
the point would be more fairly stated
if she said they are opposed to The
Kappa Beda Phi in particular. Sororities, she says, are opposed to the
traditions of Dalhousie. But it is only
by the breaking down of existing institutions by some pioneers that progress
can be made. If the world had continued to move on, ruled by traditions it
rather seems that there would be no
necessity to bother about Sororities
since there would be no girls at college
at all. Seventy-five years ago the idea
of a woman becoming a college graduate
was the height of abscurdity. And yet
today women have so freed themselves
from the shackling, then-existing trad
   
 

 
   
  
 

   
  
  
 

economic necessity for a woman to be a
college graduate if she intends to hold
any position that calls for executive
ability in the business world.

The arguments used is that Delta
Gamma supplies the need of any sorority “Sororities are apt to give rise
to snobbishness and all the bad effects
of snobbishness” the letter states, The
writer of this epistle apparently is unaware that the meaning of the term
“Sorority” is ‘sisterhood’. Very good.
Delta Gamma is a “‘sisterhood’’ then
and contains no snobbishness whatever,
is entirely opposed to cliques, and it is
touching the way every member sticks
up for her sisters in any circumstances
whatever. What a Utopian affair.
If Delta Gamma is a Sorority it has
failed miserably to live up to the standards. Then if it is only a Society, as
one always considered it, why should
we have to resign from it? People
have, you know, actually belonged to
more than one society before. We did
not mean to be disloyal to Delta Gamma
and had there been a society to which we
could have considered it an honor and a
pleasure to belong, there quite likel
would have been no Kappa Beta Phi.
But we feel and I’m quite sure the majority of students honestly feel also that
Delta Gamma is quite lost and all but
all forgot except for two times during the
year, initiation and the annual dance.
The writer suggests that it would have
been more proper to have put our
energies in retrieving Delta Gamma.
I would like to ask her if she ever
seriously thought of taking a Society
about which the general opinion “Oh,
it’s simply a joke as far as activity Is
concerned,” of over two hundred people
who all lack interest and which is divided into at least twenty small groups,
some with too much superiority complex
and others with too much of the opposite
kind and of which one half doesn’t
know what the other half does and
cares less, I would really like the writer
to think of what her mode of attack
would be in moulding such a Society into
an active and working body. If she
would kindly tell me, I can assure her if
it is at all feasible the girls of the Sorority will do their utmost to remedy
matters. Delta Gamma was started
when the feminine portion of Dalhousie
numbered six and to all intents and
purposes it seemed then as if there
would be very few more in the coming
years. Then “it embraced all the
students.”” But does it honestly now
carry an its main object?

Pray, may we ask, if all the boys in the
University broke up their crowds,
refused to speak to their friends and
immediately started another Frat when
the now existing Frats were formed
here, and some were asked to join and
others were not? In every argument
I’ve ever been in I have upheld the
feminine sex as against the masculine,
but I honestly must say that these past
weeks have rather shaken my convictions. It has been shown that such
petty jeolousies that are being exhibited
now do not exist among the men of this
University. 4

Miss Hebb wants to know why this
Sorority was formed? Many of the
Dalhousie girls are simply friendly with
two or three personal friends and are
merely on ‘‘Hello’”’ terms with the rest.
There is an acknowledged definite
clearage between the Hall girls and the
uy girls. It was to remedy these
defects in the college life that the Sorority was formed. That the Sorority
was going to take the form of ‘strife and
bitter feelings’’ was the last thought of
the girls who formed it. We are awfully
sorry but we really cannot feel morally
responsible for the way other pears
acted. We would like to find out also
if the Frat boys were publicly asked
why they formed themselves into a
| Frat and if they stated their reasons and
‘ constitution in the Gazette? The writer
asks with heavy sarcasm if it were to
have weekly banquets at the Queen
Hotel that the Sorority was formed
Financial difficulties prevent this but
still since we are told that one of the
members, Miss Frances Elkin, represents
the Sorority and not the students on the
Council we will in all likelihood have a
grant next vear for the sole purpose of
dining weekly at the Lord Nelson. We
‘also wish that no innuendos would be
used as to whom the member is that
“has every opportunity to play bridge
all day long without forming a Sorority’’.
_ One thing we are sorry for. If the
Dean of Women is annoyed that we did
not consult her, may we hereby make
public apology. We_ were king in
‘courtesy not in any official requirement
as far as permission was concerned the

SS LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL ALLL LL EC LL A LL CS I

| Sorority is made Bp nut of Hall girls but
lof City girls... T
Bo.

The Faculty and the
d of Governors have been spoken

oe 2

[to and permission granted from them.

i

  

IRE MURPHY|

        

itions that it has become almost an.

   
 

  
 

 

, ' Fey
“Dalhousie noo may fidge fu’ fain.

She’s gotten poets o’ her ain,”

To adapt the couplet of Burns.

One is Guy Mason, who went to the
War, serving in France with the R. C.
Artillery. He completed his course at
Manitoba, and is at present teaching
School in Saskatchewan. 1927, he published, as a Ryeraow Chap-book, his
first slight sheaf of verse: “The Cry of
insurgent youth.” Now he has followed
it with a second chap-book, entitled
“Spendthrifts,"’ the initial poem. It
begins, ;

“Great wealth was theirs; who died
not long ago: F

And they were royal spendthrifts:—”

The opening lines give the idea, the
lavish sacrifice of youth upon the red
altar of war. é'

The thought is not unlike Rupert
Brook's, :

“Blow out, you Bugles, over the rich
Dead!”

But it has its own turn. |

Perhaps as fair a specimen of Mr.
Mason’s verse as any is “The Road of
Youth”. |

(As an old man would see it).

I came along that road but yesterday.

How strange it seems that I shall never
move ;

Again with light free step along its way;

Count the quick milestones, the dreams
I wove

In the fair sunlight; pick the wayside
flowers

That gaily smile and beckon; shed

hot tears
When friends fall by the way; chase
flowing hours,

And dally with the sun-kissed, golden

years.
That slyly steal our treasures. Not
again 3

May we one second’s full experience _
Repeat. Down life’s quick stream It

moves. It’s pain

Or joy is shadowed by it consequence.

That, pressing on our future, ever strives
To point the devious pathway of our
lives.

Mason’s work should find a place on
the ‘‘Dalhousie Shelf” in the Library.

—A. M.M.

SCIENCE AND
PHILOSOPHY
VERSUS LIFE

Science and philosophy say tome:
“Your immortality is but a primitive
conceit,
You childish man, close up your book
of fairy tales,
What is, is Here. There is no There.”
I answer:

There was a war.

Bugles sounded prettily

Thousands of boys—not yet quite men—

But would have been—

Went off to war.

Cannons bellowed and were still.

Horses hoofs stamped, scattered eyeballs

Bits of mucous brain, shreds of heart

Into the dirt.

And clotted blood like slippery jam

Oerspread the fields of France

While mothers knitted socks for soldiers

And now and then a tear dropped on the
yarn.

But they at last, whose fingers

—When they were not holding forks and
knives

At three fat meals a day—

Held pens, Said “‘stop’”’ to them

Whose stiffening fingers clutched the
sword

It was over and the grass sprang up

Greener than before on Flanders field.

Thousands of boys had lost their lives

Before they had scarce had chance to
think

What living meant.

Where are they?

In Flanders field, they left them—bones

And the flesh that rotted on them

But surely not, in Flanders field—their
souls.

Science, with simple mouth inquisitively
ajar

Whence issues a dry sound

As hollow as the rattle in the throat

That warns of death;

Science with crude raw prying paws

Keep off this hallowed ground.

Philosophy, with words so long

They can’t mean much;

Who's taught us not a whit

These last two thousand years.

Go mumble to yourself your stuffy lines

They have no truth for human ears.

‘ip

 

 

How many people are worrying about
those six Sororities? All the fury and
energy of the attack is against the Kappa
Beta Phi's and all because it was not
announced publicly from the house
tops and the rest of Delta Gamma
allowed to express their opinions. Did
Delta Gamma want the Sorority to
announce by daily bulletins on the
notice board what was the burning
question of the moment. Did it want
us to post one day a bulletin reading
“Kappa Beta’s would like to have
Delta Gamma settle for them the
question as to whether they should
pay $1.25 or $1.50 for their banquet?
All opinions gratefully received’. And
we call ourselves broad minded.

We thank Miss Hebb for her purely
altruistic motive in presenting the
“Sorority Case” before the public and in
hoping that by her letter we shall see the
error of our ways. But after careful
consideration we find it impossible
“To drop the whole scheme”’ until told
to do so by higher authority than a
fellow student.

Sincerely,
CLAIRE MURPHY

A BARGAIN
$25.00
Chey. Touring
In good condition

Atlantic Motor Sales

Dondonald Street

AT

 

 

 

  
  
    

 

(Continued from page 1)

Personnages:
DAMOISEAU | Charles F. LE BRUN
PLACIDE Richard Di HUMPHREY
BONIFACE _ Richard A. DONAHOE
EGLANTINE Mary D. FALCONER
LE JARDINIER Kenneth W. MATH
ESON
LE GARDE CHAMPETRE

   

Monologue par A. Erhard
Margaret Graham COWPERTHWAITE

4.
LES DEUX GRENADIERS
Poésie traduite de Henri Heifle. Musique
de Schumann. ~
John C. BROOKFIELD
Accompagné par Donald MURRAY

5.
N’EN DITES RIEN A PERSONNE
Monologue
Rachel P. WAINWRIGHT

6.
L’ETE DE LA SAINT-MARTIN
Comédie en un acte, par Meilhac et
Halévy.

Résumé

Monsieur de Briqueville, vieux célibataire avait concentré toute son
affection sur son neveu Noel qui est le
dernier représentant de la famille et
qui doit la continuer. Il lui avait choisi
une fiancée de nai:saice aristocratique
et richement dotée. Mais la veille du
jour ot l’on devait signer le contrat,
Briqueville a recu de Noel une lettre
lui annoncant qu'il ne voulait plus faire
le beau mariage de raison qu’on avait
préparé pour lui, car ilétait @pris d’un
violent amour pour untejeune fille de
condition modeste. C’é ait la fille d’un
tapissier chez lequel un jour il était

entré par hasard. Noel !’a épousée
malgré l’opposition de son _ oncle.

Briqueville brouillé avec les parents de
la fiancée abandonnée et tous leurs
amis, est venu cacher sa douleur et
sa colére dans son chateau de Touraine.
Il a juré de ne plus revoir son neveu
et de ne pas recevoir la “grisette’’ qu'il
a épousée.

Par quel stratagéme le jeune couple
va-t-il apaiser et reconquérir le vieil
oncle? C’est tout le sujet de la piéce.

Personnages:
BRIQUEVILLE Hervé LE BLANC
NOEL Emile-Charles STEHELIN
ADRIENNE Muriel-Catherine DON
AHOE

Madame LEBRETON  Marie-Alfreda
POIRIER
Un domestique Richard A DONAHOE

 

Halifax Ladies’ College

and

Conservatory
of Music

Upper and Lower School
Teachers’ Certificates in Art
Household Science
Music
Tel. S 224

 

 

 

Scatter Sunshine

With
Greeting Cards

Why write a letter?
When a card will say it
better.

Sentiments suitable humorous—
Serious or friendly for the Birthday—Anniversary — Wedding or
Sympathy—Cute little cards to
tuck in the gift—a card to cement
that friendship.

A Card for Every Occasion

FARRELL’S

For
Greeting Cards

446 Barrington Street

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers & Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. Weare th
Only members of the T. F. I

D.
Florists. We can wire Flowers

to all parts of the world.

Che Rosery

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac, 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

STUDENTS

Text Books
Note Books
Loose Leaf Books

Stationery, Etc.

T. C. Allen & Co.

124 & 126 Granville Street

a  —

 

  

IR a, sae

. i —_" ¥. i
, i aw {ee re ’ e Fi A
Pe ee 7 ie ef .7 | a fe a oir i
7. Ce <a 7 * i ? :
rr 7 Bad w
Pee Tt WR Ones ol rie
7 -, an hss ‘ ‘
p : re) 3

ie oh
. ; ’ Se = at ]
oh pie) Page five _

  

: Le 4 0
uM A P ‘ i
a MS { var
ar. ag ty i
ef alee oni z
+ :

Li

Mind/
SMOKE A

  
  

ie ene
/ ey i i
1s ' ‘as fi h 9

ae
hee Wate | a ez
S| i om | bi! :
Ree BV ll |
L r i t is ' - i] iM 5
eT ee ia i. im) y

 
  

°
; ‘
)

     

COLLEGE COLORS

We have a good supply of our
distinctive Dalhousie stationery

Neat size crest, die stamped in
yellow and black on high class
parchment paper, club size, with
envelopes stamped to match, suitable for ladies or gentlemen.

SOCIETY
BRAND
CLOTHES

SOLD ONLY AT
Winter-Burns Ltd

437 BARRINGTON STREET

     
       
      
     
 

Sold in bulk only, buy any quantity you require.

Faulkner’s Book Store
16 Spring Garden Road

 
     

      
 
  
  

 

   

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

MACLEOD, BALCOM

LIMITED

 
       
    
  

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street
and Bedford

  
    
      
   
   
  

  
 
 

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat

 

 
     
 

 

Steam Cleaned and PresW INN ERS foe, THE sed, for 75c or 4 ‘Tickets
| ART for $2.00
For 60 years the REACH Trade

    
    

Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS., CO.,

   

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N. S.

    
     
   
     
 

Barrington St.,

      
     
     
 

Sac. 428 Har. 127
Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods creinace PREESING

   

HALIFAX, N. S.

     
 

Don. ADAMS

Supervisor of
Student Sales Work
MacLean’s MAGAZINE

WILL BE HER
|

    

on or about

The Week of
April Ist, to Oth,

Watch Bulletin Boards

To explain the details and basis of remuneration of |

MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE Summer Sales Work.
You Can Earn Money

for Mext term’s expenses. Last Summer Students earned as
high as $1,634.55 and Travelling Expenses.

Write now for an interview, as the time he can spend at
your University is limited.

Let Don. tell you of the pleasure, money and opportunity
awaiting you as one of MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE Sales
Representatives.

Sales Training—Salary—Travellin
a ae: g Expenses
Liberal Commission and Bonus Arrangement
Write and arrange for an interview to-day

DON. ADAMS
153 University Ave., Toronto, Canada

CLEAN S IS SOLD

CANADA'S NATIONAL MAGAZINE" ON MERIT ONLY

—------~.—--~. USE THIS COUPON ~-~---______

DON. ADAMS,
MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE,
158 University Avenue,
Toronto, Ont.

MacLean’s Magazine,

to organize your Student Sales Staff for the vacation months.

I will be glad to have an interview with you when you come here
(Signed). |

CROSS CHEE HOR Oren eEesenee |

Faculty and Year

CSCC HHEHOTOCREH OHS OS HHSC DOES SEE EEes® i

University i

    

al
j

  
 

 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
   
   

ie

of next]

ea

  
  

avajo | | who is
WI Pacis . because of
meee the customs

 

 
 

A BLikoaten Neri be
| ck all of the three plays
she be seen at the Garrick
we she is scoring a

is. on a e Rose of
d during the coming week,

| in the htough role Bee
oe Sn oO a ay
ba i te introduction. It E a
;. known to all, and endorie universal You will be
Pe your reservations early,
are being snapped up at a fast
\e box office sale for the coming
miling Through” is already

  

      
     
  

  

 


 
  

  
   
 

Carroll layers, under the direct‘open tog on, can always be countoa wet presentation of any
di Bo manner that, leaves

RY rane FILMED AT

 

     
  
     
  
  
 

: Van Di fase: the mysterious author
e most successful series of detective
‘ies in modern fiction history, who

3 far has shielded his identity behind

mount officials to appear before a

on sicture Camera.

ine is seen on the screen for

. irst. time in “The Canary Murder
se,"’ his famed mystery story which

i “show: at the Majestic theatre on

1a
. oe loath to give the world at
an opportunity to discover hiss
tity, the authcr, whose name had
| me a byword in the world of books
. sh his detective stories during
cM he last three years, finally consented
; ro step in front of the camera lens.
_ The exact manner in which the auppears when the picture is shown
competes screen will not be revealed.
weve! as, famous companions,
i ‘The Canary Murder
Case " includes William Powell, as Philo
Vance, the super-detective; Louise Brootr A _ James Hall, Jean Arthur, Charles

 

  

  
 

    

a OU)

  
    
 
 
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
    
      
  
  
       
    
  
   
  
   
   
  

Pibsbcin Sh Chis ‘divected “The
‘a are Minter Case,’ " with Van Dine
; in ironing out technical

IcLEAN’S MAGAZINE OFFERS
‘EXCEPTIONAL OPPORTUNITY
TO STUDENTS

as “pe a past two years, The MacLean
yy Publis hing Company, Limited, Toronto,
} grown: tremendously. T olay it is
_ of the largest publishers of periodmyst ils in the British Empire—due largely
Bais re oer Canadian attitude.
" the founder of this
| Comp

any, Lieutenant-Colonel John BayPevelonrCansda for Canadians.

a =”

}

, is and always has been to

a The largest publication put out by this
* company. is MacLEAN’S MAGAZINE.
. a s particularly devoted to informative

rticles by competent Canadians on
anadian, affairs and current events,

mi

} a

   

ca that it is being appreciated is shown
the fact that in 1928 its circulation
geome over 30,000 copies and today
i ‘ xceeds the Canadian circulation of the
United States magazine by about
pe ies; a fact of which Canadians
lind be and are proud.

Pe TACLEAN'S MAGAZINE feels it is
Pr | nae that students should enjoy the
(8 opportunities of making money
offered by a work so basically patriotic
a as the wider and more intensive dist a: ibution of the Magazine. It will not

| ate, howpyer sales based on any
on eit: mi MACLEAN’S MAG_ AZINE has had a considerable exper
aeith ‘students as salesmen. This experience has shown that university men
gan successfully | sell MACLEAN'’'S on
it's merit; several students having
earned over $1,600.00 during their
) ie vacation months.

+ This year MACLEAN'S MAGAZINE
is offering; arrangement to
4 Ly y men who desire to earn

at type HA vacation. To men of the

ht t CLEAN’S MAGAZINE

a weekly salary sufficient to
on comfortably, _ transportation
pene ly liberal
nus | “on production. The contract
ered to students requires them to
produce full quoca te ondet to draw their
m's bonus; if they fail to do so by

as much as one order they lose out on
that parti ular bonus. The arrangeit is exce scaly soueret,

ie

 
   
 

 
  
 
  
 
   
 
    
    
  
 
   
  

      
 
 

N23 “no Warran
ie for the who

role season.
apa peso who is

  

_| eleven points the
| play-o
ee forfeited to the
le in

iether tae fila

  

m de- plume, was persuaded by}.

and eyed it quizzically.

\ mess Grant. and Gustay | ¥°

ppeal—MACLEAN'S is sold|

jence. plceoa the past two or three years |

  

 

t| asso te - Phone L 142°

Ty aie Lorway runnin running ina “total of
Freshmen defeated
| Dentistry by a 28—10 count in the
-offs. et the Interfaculty basketball
title. The second | — of the series
r

the game the losers scored
baskets, getting the rest of
their markers on foul shots. The
winners were masters of the play throu
    
 
  

10st first h leaving the floor at the end of the
first half leading by a 14—7 count.

- Dents—MaclIntosh 3, Parker 2, Harris 1, Oldfield 2, Sullivan 2, MacMillan,
0.

Duxbury. 1
Cone Conrod 8, ares 8, Lor, Smith,

y 11, Stoddard, Webber 1
McCulloch, Rogers. 28.

| The Joys of Travelling

(Author's remark: funny)

 

“Do you golf?’ asked the sweet
young thing, feeling somewhat a_veteran after a week’s stay at Jasper Park.

“No,” replied the boy, a little sadly.
PING? h have never played golf. Never
hit a ball’’.

“Really,” remarked the girl, mingling
surprise with incredulity. She groaned
at the ocean of wheat which was tossing
its head at the Eastbound Confederation.
Then looking away from the window,
she continued. “So you must play
tennis,” and as an after thought, added
“the courts at Jasper were heavenly,
and I had the best partners’.

“That must have been gratifying,”
returned the boy, ‘I have never played
tennis, and know none of its delights’.
The girl affected astonishment.

‘Well, what on earth do you play?
Do you ever enjoy yourself?”’ ‘‘Immensely, at times’, the boy assured her,
I don’t play the games you mention,
because [ have never had the opportunity, or rather I have put the time
to a different use. I play a little
rugby”’.

“What's rugby?”
“Tt’s the English term for one kind

of football. Different from association
football.”’
“Oh”. There was a pause. Then

she continued brightly. ‘I say, what's
that book you have?” pointing to a
volume of Schopenhauer’s Essays bound
in bright green.

“Very high brow isn’t it? Mother
was wondering who could be reading it’’

“Why”, replied the boy smiling,
‘it is very interesting. Some of the
essays | thoroughly enjoy. His essay
“Of Women” opens up vistas”

“What does he say about | women”,
the girl demanded eagerly. |

“You had better read it. See, it is
not long’. The boy held up the volume

This is a peculiar book’’, he said,
“it is a charm or touchstone. I have
been travelling all summer and I haye
always kept it by me. Whenever I
travelled by train, I would take it out
and lay it on my seat; sometimes open,
sometimes shut. Then I would go
into the observation car.

It invariably followed that on my
return, either the person opposite, or
the one sharing the section would
scrutinize me keenly: and it so happened
that several times I became acquainted
with people who were most entertaining
—all because of this little book. Don't
ou think that’s interesting? I think
it is remarkable’.

“You actually did that purposely”,
the girl ejaculated.

““Yes—but at first unconsciously”.

interesting people?”
“Perhaps’’, countered the boy, laughing to himself.

to write the Student Sales Manager of
MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE, 153 Univyersity Avenue, Toronto, 2, Ontario,
full particulars.

 

for

 

Our High Quality Standard

makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

24.

MADE TO-MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Ste

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS

Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

MeDonald Music Co.

| 93 Barrington St. Halifax

 

  

MacDONALD @®
_ FORSYTHE
~ College Mens’ Overcoats

ae

ut «G15. to $30.

 
     
   

 

  
   
   
  
     
  

Amy, like

“Well you're incorrigible’, and she
shook her dainty head.

‘As bad as that?” smiled the boy.

“Yes—but—ah - - Am I one of those

(Continued from page 1)

Alice Nelson, as Mrs. Fisher, the
mother-in-law) of the Show-Off, gave a
competent performance, carrying out

admirably the part of a much older

woman and
at the deat
only obviou
night's acting.

Helen .Williams as Amy Fisher who
eventually arries the Show-off and
Margaret Mackie as her sister Clara
Hyland both looked very well on the
stage and gpve consistently good characterizationg throughout the whole play.
r mother could have shown
a bit more émotion.

Joe, the
invention

    
 

ker expression of grief
‘of her husband was the
weak spot in her whole

 
  
    
 
   
 
  

as done by Forrest Mus
grave. With the exception of Ralph
Morton, he and Margaret Mackie
gave the two best bits of acting during

the whole ¢ penta: Mr. Musgrave when
he came and told his sister of the
bad news concerning his father and
Miss Mackie when she broke the news
to her mother.

Clyde Douglas as the father; George
MacIntosh as Frank Hyland, Clara's
husband who was always helping out
Aubrey in his financial difficulties,
John Budd as Gill, a workman, and
Richard Donohoe as Mr. Roger, a
lawyer, all gave good performances,
although of minor importance.

Credit is deserving to Graham Allen
for evening attempting to put on the
play in such cramped quarters and with
so few of the necessary equipments
entailed with the production. I[t was
not as good as last year at the Majestic
but no one was expecting ti to be so.
But it can be easily said that the play

was doné just as well as it could possibly |
have been under the circumstances. |
The ba¢kstage cues were well timed

and dome with much effect. There
were no promptings and the play ran
smoothly from beginning to end.

For the first time in his career Graham |

Allen attempted something serious.
Between the first and second act he gave
one of the speeches from Hamlet in
costume. He did it rather well, but
some of the students seemed to find
it amusing and were unnecessarily rude
with their applauding. It is a pity that
any sort of art at Dalhousie can never
become objective—the students persist
always in making it subjective.

Between the second and third acts
Graham Allen and Margaret Mackie
gave sOme more of their ‘‘Moron and
Mackie” line. Although the jokes were
decidedly of the gay ninety vintage,
they put it over well and the students
seemed to find it entertaining, especially
the logal hits. Their stunt on the
Library was rather good, and it seemed
as if Graham was appreciated far more
in this humorous vein than in the more
serious,

This was the second last Glee Club
before exams and if the next one in April
by the Newman Club is as good as its
predec:ssors it will complete one of the
most successful years the Glee Club has
ever had.

PRINTING |
For People Who Care

We keep promises
and Deliver on time.

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
Phone S. 3800-3801

Commercial & Society
Printers

 

 

 

   

(ieorge F. Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Cebacco
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description
—Also—

   
 
  
   
    
 

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX,

For Young People as
well as older folk
Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you

Best Sodas
Best Confectionery
Best Meals

The Green Lantern

 

Balifax Chronicle

AND
The
Halifax Baily Star

NEWSY!
ACCURATE!
DEPENDABLE!

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

va Show-off” te

 

 

    
        
 

  

Lae 2and, 1929

SS

~ORPH EUS”

THIS Wt EK-Thu-Fri-Sat. NEXT WEEK-Mon-Tue- Wed.
: : . ) i 9
pee Se “The Power of The Press”

Screen's Greatest Melodrama

   
    
  

  

  

 

 
   
   
   
  
 
      
       
  
 
  

  

   
    
 
  
  
 
 

  

 
 

  

 

Powerful Drama of Newspaper
“THE WHIP” Life
4 Great Stars DOUGLAS FAI
DOROTHY MacKAIL ce eee oe
Ralph Forbes — Anna Nilsson JOBYNA RALSTON
Lowell Sherman
COMEDY—FABLES Comedy — FOX NEWS

      
 

  
 
  
 
  
   
    
  

 
 
   
 

 

   
 
     
   
 
      
  
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
   
    
    
     
   
     
   
   

‘If You Want To See Well
SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y.M.C. A, BLDG, HALIFAX, N.S.

tHE SONG SHOP tro.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC

22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, t Canada

 
 
 
 

  

   

 

 

MISS EDNA PRESTON
Who is playing at the Garrick

theatre in the part of leading
lady for the Carroll Players.

CASINO

This Week
Thursday-Friday-Saturday

TOM MIX
“Outlawed”

Our Gans Comedy

Next Week
Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday

Richard
DIX

 

 

   
   
      
 
     
   
 
      
   
   
  
    
    

   
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 

    
   
  
    
    
    
  
    
       
     

Men’s écfona Shoes

$5.00 pair.

Well made shoes of good quality Scotch grain
leather with goodyear welted soles. Leather
heels. A sturdy shoe for Winter wear! Sizes
5 1/2 to 10 1/2.

in

‘'RedsKin’’

   
  
   
    
  
   
    
 
      
      
      
     
   
       
 
    
      
   

 

 

    
  
    
  

 

BIRKS—

have for sometime enjoyed
the distinction of making
all Dalhousie Class Insignia,
and trust their efforts will |
merit a continuance of this |

|

 

Eaton’s—Second Floor.

“T. EATON.

GARRICK ,

REPERTORY THEATRE

business.

 

.e

‘LIMITED

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

 

Diamond Merchanis HALIFAX

 

———

YELLOW 'CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

  

 

  
     
        

— MON-TUE-WED, —

“THE CANARY
MURDER CASE”

with WILLIAM POWELL
LOUISE BROOKS AND
JAMES HALL

NOW PLAYING
RON: ALD COLEMAN
in “The Rescue’’

—ALL NEXT WEEK —
EDNA PRESTON

“SMILING THRU”
with the
CARROLL PLAYERS

— NOW PLAYIN

|THE Rist af Pano”

   

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

    
  

  
      
 
     
         
      

 

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

Easy rests the head that wears our Hats,
Broad the shoulders in our new Trench Coats,
And Shirts and Ties in Dixie Blue win votes,

We sell them to the College and its frats.

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP
30 Spring Garden Road
Med cooeiveas 10% discount to Students

 

 

 

“JOIN OUR”
EASTER SUIT CLUB

Now Forming

“YOU NEVER KNOW
YOUR LUCK”

Full particulars at

Roxy’s Clothes

SHOP
154 Granville Street

    
    
       
     
       
     
       
     
       
     
       
     
     
  
  
  
 

  

MACLEANS

“CANADA'S NATIONAL MAGAZINE”

Is Sold on Merit Only

The members of MACLEAN’S Sales Staff are handpicked from thousands. They must conform to the
highest standards of Canadian manhood. They must
be physically and morally fit to represent an Institution
whose aim is, and always will be, to render the public
the highest class of reading-service it is possible to
conceive.

No “sympathy’-appeal of any sort is allowed to be
employed by Representatives of _MACLEAN’S
MAGAZINE. They must sell their product as every
other business firm does—On Merit Only; and in every
way exhibit an impeccable conduct and unfailing courtesy worthy of the Prestige and Dignity of the House
of MACLEAN’S.

The Work is Congenial—Territory can be Arranged—Reasonable Salary and Actual Travelling Expenses Guaranteed.

 

NOTICE!

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO
STUDENTS
SUITS & OVERCOATS

CONDONS

MEN'S STORE

2SHOPS

LORD NELSON HOTEL
23 SPRING GARDEN RD,

   
  
   
   
  
   
  

 

  

You will receive training in your own locality with a competent supervisor.

COMMISSION and BONUS on Production also PAID

  
    
  

  
 
 
  

    
 
  
 
 
  
 

  
  
 
 

—S— f {
CENTRAL—The nearest Bar eee Student-Sales-Manager \
ber Shop to the College. f Nel sot eaaear MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE
SERVICE— Always experienced NOW 153 University Ave., Toronto

barbers at your service.

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at

_A.PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

yl llS>S——_—_—_—[——=————[=[==Z

IS SOLD
ON MERIT ONLY

 
   

   

     

CANADA'S NATIONAL MAGAZINE®

   

 
