re | eae isi

 

   
 

  
 
 

|| CIRCULATION
|| OF ANY COLLEGE
PAPER IN THE
MARITIMES}

DIAMOND
JBUILEE OF
THE OLDEST

MM

   

COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

   

   
   
  
 
    

  

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 26th, 1928 NO. 3

——————_——————_———
ee

Tigers Triumph In Most Exciting Game

Dals First League Victory T his Season JONES GOES OVER
Davison Places Oval |LEGAL BRIEFS; COT GC Hes — FOR LON E COUNT

; MOOT COURT! Attractive Features Se i ee

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

*

ae ee, q ry
—o = =

  

+e
t oO ——_--— —.

 

 
 

 

aot ELEMENTS UNKIND
Considering}the continual downpour ‘PROGRESSI V. E
of rain, the soggy field and the poor
visibility the game was by no means
bad. The work of the forwards of
ni both teams was especially good and it
ip was their efforts that made the game
interesting and worth a drenching to
4 watch. The Service men, at home on
i land or sea, seemed little troubled by
the elements and during the greater
part of the first half splashed around in
‘7 the Dal end of the field.

DAVISON SCORES

fs In the second half the Services appeared on the field with but thirteen men,
two of their star regulars being unable
to return to the game on account of
serious injuries, and as a result the
Tigers were not so hard pressed and
many onslaughts against the sailor’s
citadel but without doing any damage.
The game seemed slated to go down
| into the limbo of drawn games until

a kick and some dribbling by the for
wards brought the ball to the Service
= twenty-five yard line. After a scrum
ras | and some loose play Charlie Jones
picked up a fumble, dragged his way

through several yards of muddy terr
 

ere reo passed to Dave who placed the
r - eval beyond the line to give Dalhousie.
r her first league win of the year. Capt-| Sina S. Singer, Pres. of Glee Club
be Mo Cate Bill Soars — @ pine ore A ce ree oe ace Sm EO a
to convert but the ball, soggy with mu CAPTA I N APPRE
! ! ¥

- and-rain, failed to go over.
«Jn the closing minutes of the game the

losers made a gallant effort to overcome
Da Bt aiid vert ores used their

   
     
   

  

_ CIATES SUPPORT

-.” @bility as govcer players to dribble the], _
ic bell down to the collegians tea yard|’ DAL LEADS CITY LEAGUE

x line only to run u against a grim and
forbidding wall of Tigers.
. a GOOD SPORTS
/ A few individual clashes gave the
if game a real homelike atmosphere but
+ on the whole the best of feeling eon
between the rival fifteens. The Sera’ vice men, always good sports, played the
game all the time and neither gave nor
asked for quarter.
Victory meant more to the United
Service fifteen than it did to the collegians. Dal has captured numberless
City League championships while the
Service men took the trophy but once.
This year they have a team as good as
any in the four team circuit, but lost
out by hard luck more than anything
else in their only two games to date.
DAL STARS

Outstanding in the Tiger victory was
the playing of Davison, Wickwire and
Maxwell all of whom played good
sound rugby both on the offensive and
on the defensive. MacDonald at full
back seems to have a permanent place
in the list of ‘‘brilliant aged but in

me played so far this season
So te Aenceved all that has been said
about him. On Saturday he was
brilliant again.

Dr. Boyle of St. F. X. refereed in an
impartial and satisfactory manner.

al lined up with; A. MacDonald,
full back. Hewat, A. Sutherland, Wickwire and Jones, quarters; Maxwell,
H. Sutherlan and Davison, halves;
Baird, H. Townsend, Campbell, Irving,
Smith, Woolner and C. Townsend,
forwards.

Delta Gamma
Seeks Talent

NO MEN ALLOWED

Delta Gamma is strictly a_ girls’
society and is open to every girl in the
Universitv. The meetings are held
every two weeks, usually at Shirreff
Hall, ‘‘awav from the disturbing male
element.” The DeltaGamma meetings

afford an excellent opportunity tor old
f -._ .and new members to become acquainted
with each other.

Each year Delta Gamma plans on
presenting a show at Glee Clu». Anyone with dramatic ability or musical
talent is always a welcome and useful
member. This, however, does not ex-| 11.30 in Room 2, Arts Building.
clude those who are not so gifted; for] Unfortunately the expected speaker
there is a place in Delta Gamma for| Dr. Marshall was prevented by illness

each and every girl in the University. from coming, although the Club had
_ The Delta Gamma Dance is always | the pleasure of learning of Dr. Marshall’s
‘the last dance of the college year. This| willingness to address it at some later
iy dance is one of the largest and most] occasion. The next meeting of the
es of the social activities. Club will be on 11.30 a.m. Thursday,
_-—s Phe next meeting of Delta Gamma] Oct. 30th. As officers must be elected
» will be held at’ Shirreff Hall Friday|to fill vacancies left by resignations, a
‘a: full attendance is requested.

¢

To the Students of Dalhouste.

- The Editor of the Gazette, has very
kindly given me the opportunity of
expressing the thanks and appreciation
of the foot-ball team for the unprecedented and wonderful support that
you gave us in Tuesday's victory over
Acadia. Every member of the team
realized that victory did not come as a
result of the efforts of the team alone,
but as a result of the combined effort
of the players, coaches and all of you
who so loyally stood by and cheered
us on to victory. There was an indescribable something in the air that
just wouldn't let us down. From the
first whistle every player was on his
toes and ready to battle for all that was
in him. That fighting spirit, stimulated
by the fact that every student of Dalhousie was physically present urging
us oa, finally carried us to victory.

A; to Tuesday's game my only regret
was that every one of you couldn't have
been in the dressing room to have
heard the players tell how they felt.
Everywhere you would hear, “It was
wonderful the support given to us, etc.—
I never felt more like playing for all
that was in me than | did to-day.”
One of them—and he was one of the
best on the field yesterday—said “‘If
we could get support like that at every
game, nothing could hold us,” It
takes more than muscle, bone, sinew
and fifteen men to build a winning team.
Truly those elements are essential, but
it is the fighting spirit that is the crowning factor. Dalhousie has had it in the
past: Tuesday it was manifested to a
very high degree, and you witnessed
the result.

One word more—Dalhousie is now
leading in the City League. On Saturday we play the Wanderers at Studley.
Why not make it another victory for
Dalhousie by again giving the team as
great, if not greater support than you
did Tuesday?

| am, in the interests of Dalhousie.

Yours very sincerely,

BILL WICKWIRE.

Sociology Club
"aan Asset

The Sociology Club began its years
activities on the morning or Thursday,
cet. 16th. A meeting was held at

 

 

 

r v~

evening, October 26th.

    
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
   
    
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
   

Beyond The Line

 

JUSTICE ADMINISTERED

The Fall sittings of the Dalhousie
Moot Court opened in the Moot Court
room on Wednesday, Oct. 3rd. The
Court room was filled to capacity, the
court opened with the sonorous declaration “Oyey Oyey, Oyey” pronounced
in a clear Anglo-Norman accent by
Duncan MacLellan the court crier. |

The first case called was that of
Navy Blue vs Blue Jay. The court
had the benefit of hearing the eminent
counsel, Gerald Redmond K. C. for the
appellants, and Kenneth Smith, K. C.,
for the respondents. These two _barristers were assisted by their junior
counsel Miss Blandford.

The Bench was a particularly strong
one, made up of Mr. Justice Kelloway,
Chief Justice MacQuarrie and Mr.
Justice Shaw. Paradoxically enough
the bench later collapsed due to the
weight of their lordships.

On Wednesday the 10th the seeond
case was heard. This case involved a
question of great importance to every
co-ed in the college, Whether or not a
woman can recover damages for loss of a
husband's affections under the following
circumstances. Four men cast adrift
in mid ocean, and crazed with hunger
cast lots to see which one will be eaten,
the lot falling upon the plaintifi’s
husband. The survivors are rescued.
Powell K. C. argued that the wife may
recover damages while Keyes K. C.,
thought that men reduced to such an
extrémity are justified in canikalism”’.
They were supported by their juniors,
Morton and Levy. The case came on)
before Ryan, J., Turnbull, C. J., and,
Wickwite, {227 Sarre ae ye Fi

While the Barque Sally Anne was
becalmed in mid Pacific, Sinbad a
member of the crew went swimming.
Sinbad was subject to cramps. He
had lately been warned by the captain
that if he insisted on these swimming
forays in the event of an accident
happening no effort would be made to
save him. Bitten Brace the ship's
earpenter having a grudge against
Sinbad bored holes in the bottom of the
only life boat. Sinbad was taken by
cramps and the captain refused to let the
life boat be lowered. Sinbad’s wife who
was a passenger aboard, suffered shock
due to the accident. She claimed
damages.

This was the problem facing the
(Continued on page 5)

By Archibald

 

  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

It always seemed a far-off, incredible
thing. They read about old wars in
their history books; about the Peninsula
and Waterloo, and a hundred other
bloody battles. But the boys in school
and college could not take them much
more seriously than the fairy-tales told
them about Jack the Giant Killer, or
the Three Bears. That war could begin
again, that war could touch them,
never came within their thoughts.

And then it came.

August the fourth, 1914 was the
Day of Doom. On that day, the whole
British Empire took up the challenge
of the foe, and gathered round the an
cient standards. Canada rushed to
arms. Let the «stark fact stand out
plain. In six weeks, this Dominion

had mobilized a force of thirty-three
thousand men, clothed, armed, equipped,
organized and set on board the British
transports. Within six weeks. An achievement, without parallel.

‘‘Those who are wise may follow,

When the world’s war trumpet blows,
But I, | am first in the battle’.

Said Our Lady of the Snows.

Kipling’s prophecy of seventeen years
before was fulfilled to the letter.

Followed the terrible winter in the
mire of Salisbury Plain. Some died of
spinal meningitis. In February 1915
the Canadian Expeditionary Force, the
ever-glorious First Division went to
France. In April came their Baptism
of Fire—and blood. The second battle
of Ypres, which began on the 22nd
of April, in lovely spring weather, saw
the first use of poison gas. “The French
on the left broke and ran; the Canadian
stood fast. One man‘out of every three
was a casualty. The people at home
could not at first believe the story of
their valor. It was, frankly, incredible

MEET NOV. Ist

As a consequence of an enthusiastic
meeting of prospective members of the
Officers Training Corps held on Thursday last it was resolved that before
taking any definite steps towards
organization, an additional effort would
be made to enroll new members.

This is a new movement in the Uniy“ersity and it embodies some very attractive features that should be taken
advantage of by all who can possibly
do so.

Briefly, the main features of the
O. T. C. are:—
A course of instruction extending

over a period of two or three years as
the case may be, involving both practical and technical training: musketry,
machine gun practice, aviation courses
for engineering students, etc.

At the end of the year’s training and
upon the successful passing of the
British War Office examination, a
certificate ‘‘A”’ is granted and at the
end of another year, a certificate ‘‘B’’ is
granted. Certificate ‘‘A’’ qualifies for
a lieutenant’s commission in any British
non-permanent force, Certificate ‘'B’’
qualifies for a captain’s certificate.

The attendance at drills, lectures
etc., is of course a necessary element
in this organization, but it is not so to
be arranged as to involve an unreasonable sacrifice of time or to be a source
of inconvenience.

In effect, there would probably be
about one session each weekly throughout the term and this would be held in
the early evening. The reward attending the completion of this very desirable
and instructing course is well worth
the time that must be spent on it.

It is particularly desirable that the
Freshmen and Sophomores should support this Corps as largely upon them
depends its permanence. Were it to
be organized of upper classmen alone
the ranks would be seriously depleted
when they graduated.

The next organization meeting which
will be held in the Moot Court Room,
Forrest Building, on Thursday, Nov.
ember Ist at 7.30 p.m.

eee

George Wright has propounded a new
theory re perpetual motion after only
three lectures in metaphysics—we suspect great consternation in scientific
circles is imminent.

The Little College and The War

  

 

ACacMechan

that our untried, raw boys should have
done what they did, even if the Com
mander-in-Chief wrote in the official
report ‘‘The Canadians Saved the
situation’’.

Of course the best went first. George
Stairs was killed in that fight, the
gentlest of natures, the scholar who set
new standards in proficiency. Too
many others followed in those Four
Years of Agony. Scholars like Billman
and McCleave who won the Rhodes
Scholarship; men of brilliant promise
like Reg. Clayton, Jack Stairs, and
“Little Gav’, Norman Murray, who
was in the Boer War, Paul Layton, only
son, Cyril Evans Maxwell, who captained our first fifteen, tall, black-haired
Swanson, quiet, school-teaching Sylvester, Geordie Campbell, son of the
Chairman of the Board of Governors,
and so on, and so on throughout the
endless weeks and months and years.
Too long a list, far too long, a sad and
glorious roll of unforgotten names.

The Old Professor had taken them
as they came in their classes, corrected
their exercises, read and marked their
examination papers. And in a day,
these quiet lads blossomed into men, and
leaders of men. Yesterday students in

the little college; tomorrow facing
hardship, privation, heart-shaking fears,
wounds, mutilation, suffering, death.

Dalhousians fought by land, and sea,
and air. They won decorations: they
were mentioned in despatches. The
boys proved their manhood, when the
need came. They led their companies,
or battalions; they won decorations;
they suffered in hospitals, or lanquished
in German prisons. Some are enduring
martyrdom still.

The long, sad, glorious tale has never
been written. It is high time that the
Little College does public honour to
those who brought honor to it.

 

CRITIC

 

Pres. Sodales

of

Morris Mac Kinnon,

SUGGESTS DEBATING REFORMS

YEAR OF CONFERENCE

Ben Guss,

Editor Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Mr. Editor:That something is
rotten in Maritime Debating circles
does not require the detecting nose, of a
Cerberus but can be easily gleaned by
the ordinary use of the human eye by
perusing the various organs of student
opinion which on not a few occasions
have contained criticisms and charges
directed against the method in which
debates are carried on and prepared in
the section of the dominion.

To everybody, except those who are
ignorant or obstinate or both, the term
debating means a little more than a
memorized, prepared-months-before oration. The very word itself implies
the idea of refutation, discussion and a
means of resolving a more or less unsettled subject into a less chaotic state.
Understanding this it would be well to
examine just what the criticism
and if it be well-founded analyse whether
the suggestions offered will effect a
betterment.

Summarizing the objections briefly,
we find that they are in the main of a
three-fold character. Firstly, debating
without first having studied minutely
the accentuation of each word, the
inflections practised in a painstaking
manner and without having a fully
prepared speech either near at hand or
ini the hands of a prompter (sometimes
prepared by hands other than the
eolcutionist) is a practice to be abhorred
and feared and only indulged in by those
misguided martyrs whose cause is lost
before the verbal battle commences.
If this method were to be followed
to its extreme conclusion, the ridiculous
spectacle might be witnessed of seeing
our college-educated legislators giving
notice that two months from date they
would deliver a speech and in the
meantime they were not to be bothered
with the country’s business as they would
be in conference with their coaches,
speechwriters and others of their entourage. Secondly, the subjects chosen
are far more fit for International Tribunals, High Courts of Appeal and the
League of Nations than for students of
the Maritime Universities. The nature
of these subjects are most unpopular,
monotonous and achieve very little
good. The audience generally speaking
is more or less induced to come to give
evidence of college spirit or else some
fiduciary relationship and leave having
been bored to tears and more confused
than as to just what have these fellows
been talking about anyway.

Lastly, that under the present system,
the raison d'etre of debating has been
lost sight of or rather inundated under a
flow of carefully selected and prepared
words. Time does not permit refuting
of arguments nowadays and besides
the clear uninterrupted flow of these
jaw-breakers from a seemingly bottomless vocabulary might produce a striking
and unfavourable contrast while to
suggest reform in this respect has become
almost a heresy.

(Continued on page 5)

 

IS

The Dalhousie Senior Rugby Fifteen
scored a notable triumph over the invading Acadia aggregation last Tuesday
afternoon by the score of 3—0. The
game was one of the most spectacular
ever played on the Studley Gridiron
and the biggest crowd of the season
cheered themselves hoarse over the
many brilliant plays of the opposing
teams. Hundreds of supporters of the
Valley team came to Halifax for the
game and the South Stand was a riot
of noise, while the North stand, jammed
full with Dal’s supporters and, sugmented by the presence of Sina Singer’s
College Band, lent a real College atmosphere to the game.

The story of the game is the story
of one of the bitterest fights the Dal
team has ever waged. Outweighed,
less experienced, but equally if not more
belligerent, the losers fought to the last
ounce of their ability and endurance.
In the closing moments of the game,
with the Dalhousie men attacking with
crushing effect, the worn and battered
Acadia team still resisted stubbornly
and up until the last minutes of play,
did the resistance stunt so successfully
that the game seemed to be due to go
down as another scoreless draw. Then
it was that Charley Jones made his
desperate and brilliant score.

The game started with both teams
displaying an ernestness that alluded
not only to the crucial test to which
they were being put but also to the
intensity with which they were concentrating on victory. The first half
featured many splendid plays by both
sides. The Acadians were out to win
with a vengeance and they held the
Tigers. to even territory during this
session. The play was fairly open but
there.were no sensational fights on the
goal lines such as featured the second
half. Long runs by Matthews, steady
work by the fullbacks MacDonald and
Eville, really brilliant efforts by Hewat,
remarkably fine playing by Ryan and
the rugged work of both teams gave
the fans plenty to enthuse over.

THE REPULSION OF ACADIANS

tide turned and the Repulsion of the
Acadians took place. Slowly but surely
the Tigers wore down their opponents.
A clever run by Art Sutherland carried
the play into Acadian territory. A
free kick relieved but it was of little use.
Archie MacDonald, who turned in a
whale of a game, retrieved the oval and
punted it East for a long gain. Another scrum and another. The Tigers
pressed rélentlessly, the Dal supporters
roared for a score but Acadia fighting
with their backs to the wall, would not
give up.

ACADIANS WEAKEN

Their efforts were spent mainly in
holding back the local Collegians but,
now and then, they launched a counter
attack that shifted the play to the West
end of the field. These became less
frequent and of shorter duration as the
game went on. Within scoring distance
time. and dgain the Tizers struggled
desperately to force the ball over the
line. Twice the Valley team touchec
for safety. Their forwards appeared
exhausted but it was of little avail
to the Tigers.

JONES SCORES

It began to look as if the Dal men
simply could not get over. A scoreless
draw seemed certain, the gameness of the
defending team appeared insurmountable. And then the climax: Their courage
still strong, but their bodies battered

(Continued on page 5)

 

Muschamp Invites
to Shirreff Hall

CHORALISTS TO BROADCAST

The Dalhousie Choral Society met
again last Tuesday night and practiced
songs they will sing at the next Glee
Club Show, and will also broadcast at
C.H.N.S.

Owing to theatre parties in celebration
of the Dalhousie-Acadia victory, and
owing to the dance on the preceding
night the number attending was only
about thirty. Twice as many are
expected next Tuesday night, and what
about you? Come down to Shirreff
Hall once a week and learn some good
songs. Bass voices are particularly
in demand.

 
 
   

Jalhousie Gasette
(Founded 1869)

ht aD Sr | Editor
Oru pak, BEN GUSS

News Editor Sport Editor
_ PETER O. HEBB PAUL DOYLE
Associate Editor
hn ERNEST M. HOWSE

Assistant Business Manager
: R. A. DONAHOE

Reporters
YVONNE NEWNHAM
GEORGE WHITELEY

J. M. BOYER

Business , Manager
S. W. ARCHIBALD
cj 5 Rosebank Ave. Phone L 2291

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year

 

 

The Library and Its Evolution

In the beginning our ancestor of the Stone Age owned a library
—a room in the cave where stone and clay tablets with fantastic
little pictures rudely carved upon them, were kept. Bark, bamboo,
papyrus and skins, in turn have been the “‘confidants’’ of our progenitors. Both the Chinese and the Arabs have received credit for
the invention of paper as writing material. In Europe paper has
been referred to. by old writers as xylina, damascena, serica, charta
bombycina and gossypina. (The last two being particularly suggestive.)

The earliest use to which the invention of inscribed or written
signs was put was to record important religious experiences (and
erhaps political events). Thus history records that the earliest
Gheattes (like the earliest theatres) were in the temples; and the
earliest librarians (like the earliest actors) were the priests. The
priests had a monopoly on reading and writing in the early days.
If the first step in the history of libraries was the collection of stone
tablets the second step was a collection of archives.

In the modern sense a library is a collection of printed or written
literature, so of necessity the library did not come into its own
until after the development of the Arts and Sciences and the growth
of written literature. Naturally on the continent one may find
libraries—private and public—that for historical interest and architectural structure, surpass the fondest imagination.

For all practical purposes however libraries have been undergoing a process of development and improvement. The ancient
idea that a library is a repository for the storage of books to be used
only by the learned ones and the professors, is fast fading out.
The modern idea is that the library is the work-shop of the literary
fashioners: and further that it is the centre for the intellectual recreation for every type of mind.

Committees in charge of college libraries are confronted with
an unique and peculiar problem in working out their own salvations
so as to benefit every student. It is in many cases a trying task
for the committee because business men on governing boards,—

pit out of contact with student activity,—cannot see eye to eye with
professors in charge, as to what is or is not good.

.

A Slogan—Open Library.

At Dalhousie it is absolutely absurd to close the library at 5
o'clock every day and at one o'clock (and not a minute after) on
Saturdays. The Library is never open evenings, except perhaps
two weeks before Xmas vacation and three weeks before exams in the
Spring. And then it is only after the students themselves be3
for it in a petition.

Is the committee to blame? The committee should strive to
make the library as progressive and as useful as possible. It is
useless and empty to argue that a count is taken of the students who
attend the library evenings and that the number does not warrant

the extra expenses of keeping it open. The experienced — driver
is placing the wagon before; the horse! There 1s something
wrong! One may well cry with the classical writers on the shelves:
“Oh mora, Oh tempores,!’’ The Masters begrudge the disciples a
little extra reading, when day is done and classes o'er! i
At McGill at Harvard, and most other American Universities,
the Libraries are open every evening. At Harvard and at Baptist
Acadia the library is open even on Sunday! It is only proper and
symbolic that Libraries should never close their doors, within reasonable hours. The Law Library has caught the proper spirit. Dean
Read has arranged to have the Library open every evening. Special
i students named by himarein charge. Theother university libraries
at Dalhousie will do well to follow the example of the law
: school. The out of town student must be accomodated at all costs.
‘ The Library is his haven for study and research.
The Libraries at McGill, Toronto, Queens, the libraries that
have been built up with plan and forethought in the Western
Universities put us to shame. The statistics show (and this will
stand verification), that Dalhousie is at the tail-end when it comes
to expenditure on the Library. The Library is the very last thing
in the university that should be starved. ‘“‘By their library shall
ye judge them” is indeed a proper slogan for a generation that
claims a super-civilization. It does not seem credible that the
) fault for lack of consideration lies with the committee. The
students demand ‘“‘open library’? and something must be done.
4 The library should be open every evening the college year round.
| Perhaps while on the subject of the Library there are two complaints that can actually be laid at the door of the committee.
apy There is a great deal of space on the shelves empty. There are many
| interesting books that can be placed there—books now dusting
unseen in hidden stacks.
Furthermore there are many books on the shelves that should
bein the stacks. Books read only on special request. These books
-eould be obtained on the few instances needed, by asking for them.
What right has ‘“‘de Bello Gallico” (in Latin) to be taking up space
when George Bernard Shaw might attract the passing eye and lead
rf it to new intellectual delights, or ‘“Thucydidis Historiae’’ (in Greek)
| whenHenrikIbsen migh bring about aso-called dramatic purification.
And more: Bibliothek Angelsachsis-chen,” ‘‘Erotici Scriptores
Graeci’”’ and “Livius Drakenborchii,""—how many shelves, are filled
up with these, that could be utilized by serving the students with
books that would delight and instruct and broaden the mental vision.
War and Peace, by Tolstoi; Thais, Anatole France; the Dance of
Life by Havelock Ellis; A copy of Shakespeare’s plays. There
are hundreds of desirable books on science, on art that could be
placed on the outside shelves. The student does not always know
what he would like to read. He goes into the

Se

for something new—he feels repulsed by these antiquated
-—— elassical iniquities, which belong injtheir places on the stacks.

Certainly “they” have not been put outside to satisfy anybody’s

i =D }
J

-|enough

! disorder

  
  
  
 
 

  
   
  

library seeking

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
  
  

  

  

ON FRATS
AND INITIATION

BenGuss, '
Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.

I have been sent a clipping wherein
it is stated that at a recent ‘‘frat.”
initiation in Texas a student was electrocuted, and that as a consequence the
abolishment of all fraternities at that
college is mooted.

From what I know of Dalhousie
frats there is no cause for alarm here.
They are just clubs where a group of
students belonging to a certain faculty
live and work together. They are
not exclusive. No harrowing initiation
ceremony is enacted. There is little
fraternal life at Dalhousie,
hence such organizations, so long as
their statutes are rational and fair, are
rather to be encouraged.

In all things moderation. But “‘moderation” is a word our southern neighbors are only beginning to learn. In
the land of the Ku-Klux-Klan, Mormonism, and lynching,*a lot of hokuspokus and cruelty is just what one would
look for in a fraternity initiation. There
is no danger of such nonsense becoming
an established custom at Dalhousie.

And yet.....? Broken bones and
faintings are not unknown at our
initiations. And I am told that this

year quite a large number of freshettes
caught colds as a consequence, direct

or indirect, of their initiation. We
haye had debates and controversies
galore at Dalhousie as to whether

initiation ceremonies are righteous and
wise. But if Dalhousie students must
perpetuate such mediaeval absurdities
they might at least have some regard
for the victims’ health.

But I have wandered from our college
fraternities. Of this, | am certain: as
soon as we are adequately supplied with
men’s residences all danger from exclusive fraternities will be obviated.
Let us hope it will not be long before
Dalhousie will be a real home to outof-town students.

Ever at your service,
P. L. H. Muschamp.

_ LETTERS»

 

Gazette G Poetry

Shirreff Hall,
Oct. 12, 1928.

Bliss Carman is right, O Mr. Editor
we must have poetry or we are missing
half of life.

In the first Gazette appeared no
single poem; if we have no Dalhousie
poets shall we then be cheated from all
enjoyment of contemporary poetry?

I suggested that in each issue of the
Gazette there shall appear at least one
small poem written during the last few
years.

Who could resist the charm of Edna
St. Vincent M illay’s ‘‘The Dying Dance”
“That April should be shattered by a

gust
That August should be levelled by the
rain
I can endure: and that the lifted dust
Of man should settle to the earth again
But that a dream should die; would be a
hurt
Between my ribs forever, of sharp pain.”’

Or Aline Kilmer’s ‘‘Experience”’.

“Deborah danced when she was

As buttercups and daffodils do,

Spirited, frail, naively bold

Her hair a ruffled crest of gold.

Whenever she spoke her voice went
singing,

Like water from a fountain springing.

two

Now her step is quiet and slow

She walks the way primroses go

Her hair is yellow instead of gilt,

Her voice is losing its lonely lilt

And instead of her wild delightful ways

A quaint precision rules her days.

For Deborah now is there, and oh

She knows so much that she did not
know.”

There are literally hundreds of these
vivid, charming, versatile gems, but,
alas, how appallingly few are known by
the great majority of the student body.

The Gazette is surely missing a great
opportunity, the sense of the artistic,
the tone of beauty is the most powerful

eapon we have inthis war against the
world, the flesh and the devil.

M. V. LOVE.

 

The Idolatress

It was raining and the slow sullen
drizzle cast a grey foggy cloud over the
ugliness of the city. Every manutacturing city has factories, smoke, and
noise, which are ever growing creatures
that eat their way into new fields.
Similarly the Nemo Manufacturing Co.
was sunning itself in fresh fields and was
greedily looking down on more. Looking out of the windows on one side, |
could see many other factories belching
their smoke skyward; while the windows on the other side towered over a
city backyard.

This yard was a typical one for the
entire surroundings, save in one respect,
but wait—-let me tell you the story.
Have you ever seen a city hovel? Well,
this house was the usual one found in
such a neighborhood. It stood there
a barren thing, devoid of paint and
shutters, and the whole structure was
almost black with rotten
Here and there a clapboard was entirely

boarding underneath. But this dilapidated house did not particularly
attract my attention for there were
many of the same sort in the city.
Neither did the yard, a clutter of mufl
and tin cans, nor did the crude ash bin
pail arouse any
However, looking
muck and

or messy garbage
sense of curiosity.
out over this mixture of
were two windows. They
were dirty little windows that had
almost spent themselves surveying scenes
of similar disorder. One windew was
very ordinary; it was situated about
six feet above the cluttering mess,
and had for a neighbor, a stoop with
about seven steps leading up to its
landing. Around this outside platform
was a single railing which seemed to find
its usefulness in keeping together a
muddle of rubbish, old newspapers, and
bottles; through this narrow path led
to the entrance of the house. But the
window fathest drom me, where my
wandering gaze stopped, was a stranger
to its surroundinzs. At first glance,
| would have argued that it was clean,
for somehow it did not seem to have the
pleary appearance of the other. However, that was merely in passing, because stranger thidgs than that flooded
my imagination. The inside of the
window, the outside of the window, both
held me. The inside was decorated
with a curtain of immense flowers of
varied hues. Very gaudy and cheap,
you might say, but wait. The outside
window sash added its greenness to the
color scheme of the curtain and gave it
a wild appearance. Added to these
extravagant unconventionalities, there
was a flower box. A flower box that
almost startled; a flower box that
stopped me in my casual observations,
and made me wonder. Surely this
flower box did not belong here, any
more than a rose in a city dump. It
ran the entire length of the dingy little
window, and its fresh greenness was
only rivaled by the pea-green of the
window sash. The curtains, the green
of the window sash, the flower box with
its geraniums—that’s true—I have not
mentioned the geraniums. Surely, I
thought these are the idols of some
idolatress, for man never made such
idols. I had never sten such flowers
before: I did not know whether it was the
rain, the house, or the surroundings that
painted them with such wondrous beauty
but they stood forth in. their red and
green grandeur distinctly awing their
surroundings.

The who and the why of their existence was unexplainable. Who in this
neighborhood of bed-houses, rotten
grey houses, dirty houses and tottering

 

sogginess. |

missing, and one could see the a

The City

Out of nowhere scurry the brown
leaves, curled up lifeless. They lie in
the gutter voiceless as death, until the
wind murmurs down the too narrow
street, then they whisper old tales of the
city. The ghosts of the past creep
down to the graveyard and read aloud
the worn inscriptions on the stones.
Some people say it is only the bare
limbs ef trees rubbing together, but if
you listen well you can hear words
and see shadows where nothing is. The
ain slants down like tears of dull silver.

long the desolate road where the mud
thickens and squelches under foor the
people hurry to their homes. Everything living leaves to find warmth
somewhere away from the cold.  Perhaps the sun shines bleaky. Then the
old church spire takes on new life and
gleams nearer the sky. Autos ease
their shining lengths past the whitegloved traffic officer. All life comes out
into the world to see and wreath.

At night the softness of dark skies
and pale stars creep down to the roof
tops and sits thinking its odd thought.
The lights on the posts gleam through

houses could have tenderly cared for
them that they might lose their little
beauty in this human filth pot. Surely
there must be someone here chained to a
stinking corpse who in vain _ spilled
spicex to quell the stench. And just
as convention coined love, sweet in its
impossibility, to wrap our passion in
swaddling clothes. So must someone
here have planted idols to cast their
beauty over filth and in some manner
affect the surroundings to beauty.
But rather as love made passion so did
the geraniums perform their mission.
The yard seemed more filthy, the house
more rotten, and the atmosphere more
sordid. The rain drizzled on; the red
of the geraniums was not washed away,
and | wondered the afternoon to almost
a close.

Towards evening the scene became
inhabited and I saw my _ idolatress.
Strange was her goddess; strange was
her idol; strange was the worshipper.
Sounds of a quarrel came from the house
and my wandering attention was called
hack to the sacred grounds. The
quarrel subsided for a moment and a
man, a young negro wearing a red
sweater—came out on the stoop. Leaning against the door frame, he moodily
surveyed the yard. A few moments
passed and a second person appeared in
the door-way. She was a young woman.
She was not ugly. She was not beautiful: she was just a white woman. I
could not see her eyes and yet I khew
that she was my idolatress. Great was
my wonder as | longed to see her eyes.
I longed to read her soul; | longed to
hear her song of man; strange it must be,
hard it must be. They talked quietly
for a few moments until her arm slid
softly behind his back. Apparently he
knew her designs, because a_ scuffle
ensued. The reason, a bottle; fell, while
the woman screaming and cursing at the
frequent slaps and blows across her face
retired behind a slamming door.

One instant and the scene was as
before. The ash pile, the tin cans, the
soggy grey house, the green flower box,
and the red geraniums were stoically
undisturbed. The drizzle continued,
and night came’ on. The sick dismal
night of a city with its wan yellow
lights marring the. covering blackness.

I soon mingled with men_ having
honest eyes, idealistic. eyes—deceitful
eyes, Christian eyes. I lost myself
with men that had eyes to see, and yet,
would not.

L

Word was received last week from
Jack Harrington ex-Dal footballer and
Rhodes Scholar for N. F. L. D. in 1925.
Jack gets his B. A. (physiology) in
June, when he will go up to London to
complete his medical studies. He also
wrote of visiting Shakespere's country
with Jarvis McCurdy who had spent
the summer motor-cycling on the continent.

 

 

HILLERS

Dick Crummy, Med '32 who has been
in the V. G. for two weeks will shortly
be able to resume his studies.

* ok *

Owing to injuries received in the
Dal—Mt. A. game Frank Wishart was
prevented from playing on Saturday.

x *

Anticipating the Exhibition the Pine
Hill Zoologists have started a ‘“‘fish
reserve” in the Arm. Thither, on free
evenings, the boys repair with their
“rods and lines’’.

the dimness. People walk with hushed
footsteps and speak their words in the
silence. Fear lies in wait behind high
fences and in the depths of alleys.
Children peer here and there and run
swiftly into the moonlight. A gramophone rushes its music into the street

a eee pe

THE LIFE OF A LITTLE COLLEGE

 

 

October 26th, 1928

 

 

 

 
 
    

 

Junior surveying half-awake Freshman the morning after the Fresh-Soph
Dance.

Say! Do you know there are only
fifty-seven (57) days before the exams.

(Sigh), Dear, dear, I-er, What exams?

* *

Freshman reading:—

“The ideal kiss is the one that is
never given”.

Well, that’s some comfort anyhow.

Congratulations to Class ‘31.’ for
putting on the best Freshie Soph
this vear.......

* * *

Shirreff Hall beauties invaded Munroe

Room to try their vocal cords in pre
aration for the musicai comedy. ‘‘Fat’’

MacKenzie has been selected for the

stately role of the father in ‘Carrie

Comes to College.”
* * *

Editor’s Note.—The report of the Councilhas been on hand since the first issue
but due to pressure from contributors we
have been unable to publish this before.

and the lone wayfarer whistles the tune
long after the song is lost. Prayers are
said and candles lit on the mantle
shelf. Men come home from. work
and only the lights in upper windows
gleam. The city is asleep.

—E. C. '29.

 

|__ VERSE

VERSE OR WORSE.

 

 

A Night up North

For this is the song of the young forelorn
As he sits on a log to write while the
moon is glimmering hazily
And the Northern Lights are bright:

changing in shape like the sands
of the sea
And softly he hears them sigh, as they
slip along from saffron to red
In the lucid Northern sky.

[ have come many miles from mouchwash—the lone, windswept plateau,

the deer and the wolves have
fought their fights,

On a blanket of waist deep snow.

Where

I have seen strange sights on mouchwash,
Heard many a stirring tale.

But I know of none to beat the one

Of the passing of brothers McGail.

It had been very cold on mouchwash—
Nascopie for lonely place.
or the wind that swept from the Height
of Land
Was a knife to cut the face.

We struck the herddon the second day
and shot a stag and a doe,
But ’eer we'd gotten a bite to eat,

it had just begun to snow.

Softly at first like a shower of fluff,
And the wind made scarcely a sound.

Then it piped around to the N. N. W.
And bayed like a hell-bent hound.

The snow was so thick in the air that
night,
You could bite it off with your teech
And it spun and circled around and
around,
Till it looked like a mourner’s wreath.

The warmest place under the crust,
-And that was mighty cold.
But I’d never been out ina blizzard
before,
So I just did what I was told.

With our backs to the storm we dug
ourselves in.
"Twas an easy way to die.
Our canvas clothes were as stiff as board,
But I don’t recall a sigh.

We slept in a death-like stupor,

_ Though I'll never forget the dawn

Chat rose on the wastes of mouchwash,
As clear as a thrush’s song.

The snow was piled around us
In a drift a komiticx high;

When I found myself awa <e on my back,
Alooking up at the sky. }

My body was wrapped in a sheep-skin
coat.
And a jersey was round my head.
So | started up in strange surprise
And there lay Ed and Bill—dead.

 

 

 

attending Dalhousie.

POOR ADAM

Adam never knew what 'twas to be a boy,
To wheedle pennies from a doting sire,
With which to barter for some pleasing
toy,
Or calm the rising of some strong desire
To crack chewing gum. Nor did he
_E’er case the shuttlecock to battledoor
Nor were his trousers ever out at knee,
From playing ‘tigers’ on the nursery
tloor.

He never skated o’er the frozen hill
When winter's covering o’er the earth
was spread,
Nor ever glided down the slippery hill,
With jolly girls upon the trusty cled.
He never had a chance to go to Dal,
And meet the pretty co-eds by the
score
In all his life he had but one fair pal
And, strange to say, he never wished
for more.

By gradual growth he never reached the
age

When cruel Cupid first invokes his art,

And stamps love's glowing lesson, page

by page,
Upon the tablets of a young man’s
heart.
He never wandered forth on moonlight
nights,
With her he loved alone all earthly,
things;
Nor tried to mount old Pindar’s rocky
heights
Because he fancied love had lent him
wings.

He never tripped it o’er the ball-room
floor,
Where love and music interwine their
charms,
Nor wandered gaily by the sandy shore,
_ His ladylove lying snugyly in his arms.
For Adam—so at least it has been said
By many an ancient and a modern
sage,
Before a moment of his life had fled,
Was fully thirty years of age.

He never went to Wolfville for a game
Or took poor Eve out for a motor drive,
From day to day his life was just the
same—
A duller one than any man's alive—
To think of naught but nature night and
day
Until at last there came that tragic
Fall.
No wonder many people nowadays say
That Adam really didn’t live at all.

And that is the tale that is often told
When the huskies how! at the moon.
When the sparkliag Aurora
Lights up the cabin’s gloom.
A tale that mean's a damn sight more
Than wealth to the likes of us.
Of how the men of the Labrador
Can die without a fuss.

 
 

SPORTING

GOODS
AND

A GOMPLETE

MUSICAL
SERVICE

That is what we have to offer the Young Men and Women who are
You are assured of complete satisfaction here.

 

 
es ”

  

 

 

 

 

, Lheatre Party Mark Victories

?,
°

 

 

ymphony and

   

"CARRIE COMES

 

Ps and guests time and time again at
Wednesday's premiere Glee and Dram
atic performance. Ls
i Long before the rising curtain an

“+ expectant audience, fresh from the
; stirring music by the symphony orch
a estra to which they, responded with

whole-hearted vigor, awaited breath
% i res featured play of the evening.

the dramatic power and emotional |
restraint of a Broadway production was
concentrated into the one act play

“Gold”. Expecially vivid was the acting of the half-crazed captain played

by the director and producer, J. Clyde
Douglas. The moon thru the porthole

and the howling of the sea wind provided
a most suitable and eerie background
for his tragic:role. Clyde is to be comey mended upon for his excellent taste in
the selection of ‘‘Gold’’ and especially
complimented upon for his foresighted
insistence as to the type of characters
for this play. It may very well be
said that for days the producer went
about in a great state of mental disturbance waiting for his ship to come in
and it did in the form of his superb cast.
Most effective in its electric excitement
was the intense moment following the
‘ scene when both father and son imagine
jie they see the lights of the ‘Sarah Allen
Marion Dauphinee’s acting in its
___ simplicity and naivete touched the car_~—s diac «strings of all. Moist handker_—s chiefs here and there no means _ inepee dicated that their possessors | were
entirely of the weaker sex. Marion is
not only charmingly pretty but also
i _ presents an indefinable appeal from the
ae ae Ry foatichis—a natural stage presence.
Kenneth Smith as Nat expressed a
ei wor d_ of repressed emotion 1 in the
-—— elenching of his: hands in his most
. difficult and remarkably well portrayed
noe role. The character study of the
family doctor was very ably presented
by Richard Donahoe. | :
Of outstanding prominence, Morris
MacKinnon, as the thief in ‘‘Sham”
turned in probably the finest type of
acting that has as yet been seen at
Studley. From the moment he stepped
upon the stage until the moment he
left the audience was with him, heart
and soul. No greater compliment can
be paid Forrest Musgrave than to
mention that it was he who produced
and directed ‘“‘Sham’’. The depictation
of Charles by William Hampden who
seems destined to follow in his namesake’s footsteps was admirably presented. Adding another laurel to her wreath
of popularity Aileen Macaulay as Clara
easily captivated her audience. Hers
is a lovably capricious personality well
adapted to the stage.
he feature of the evening was undoubtedly the synchronized orchestration of forty talented musical Dalhousians under the magic wand of the
musical genius, Sina S. Singer. As
director of the Dalhousie Symphony
Orchestra and a former pupil of Stoessel
he possesses the qualities of a born
musician—enthusiasm, great nervous
vitality, magnetic power, infinite patience, and a perfect knowledge of the
technique of the baton. His _interpretation of the composer’s thoughts
in the opening ‘March Militaire”
fired the*orchestra to render the finest
martial selection yet heralded at Dalhousie. The rendition of the classical
masterpiece, ‘““The Blue Danube
Waltz”, touching the hearts of Dalhousians, former Dalhousians and guests,
was more in an interpretative concert
style than in an ordinary waltz tempo;
the bowing of the violinists was in
perfect unison, the intonation of the
wind instruments marvellously clear,
see and throughout all the melodious theme
of the flute full and sweet.

Never before has the Gym in all its
dramatic days seen such an impressive
i opening performance. Ushers in tuxy edos escorted members of the Faculty
i and invited guests down the carpeted
| aisles to the reserved section.

Unique in being unexampled in the
history of the Glee Club was the respect
i tendered by the students who seated

=

er.

In many a Halifax home the souvenir

programme of this premiere performance

will serve as'a pleasant reminder of an
evening most enjoyably spent.

_ Concluding the performance was the
eb University Glee Club Dance when the
Gym _=was quickly cleared of chairs for

dancing room. John Budd's Collegiate
_-~--——s«s Syneopators provided as fine a reperPe toire of modern selections as has been
heard in town.

 

Den id guthe Med ee is ee
for November ids fair to be one o
eoN b a the leading dances at the university.
. eee te plans are nearing completion
ie _ everything is set for one of the

 

 

Rincon. Mild Sensation

OG

  
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

TO COLLEGE, NEXT

Actually packed to the doors the old
Gym at Studley rocked to the applause
of some twelve hundred Dalhousians

 

   
 

 

themselves in a most orderly and efficient |’

Syncopaters A

 

GIRLS HINDER
HIGH JUMPER

From the Skeaf,

 

Comedy appears in the most unex
pected places, and least of all is it expected at a track meet. Particularly
on Saturday, with a dusty and dry
wind making things unpleasant for
spectators and athletes alike. But
people who came to scoff remained to
laugh.
- Fair co-eds giggled when, during
high jumping event, a lanky youngster
some six and a half feet in length and
dressed in ordinary street clothes lifted his extremities over the bar. He
cleared it easily but it cannot be said
gracefully, because of the difficulty in
getting himself between the uprights
which were only about ten feet apart.
After the bar had been raised a notch
for the next round, the youth bethought himself for a moment, and,
taking off his coat, again cleared easily.
For the next round off came his vest,
followed as the jumps became more
strenuous by the shirt.

The bar is now pretty high and only
‘two competitors are still jumping. As
the lanky one gives his trousers a hitch
giggling gives way to uneasy blushes,
and everyone’s mind spells a question
mark. Sure enough, accompanied by
a tense gasp from the crowd, the trousers follow the rest of his raiment. Unabashed, the youth, having emerged in
gym attire drifts over the bar with
good style and to the intense delight
of the spectators. But when he again
reached his limit, officials hastily called it a tie, and so eased our minds.

Having also won the hammer throw
he sends us the following letter, typical of his well developed sense of humour:

“The Editor of The Sheaf,

I wish to move a hearty vote of
thanks to the other competitors in the
hammer-throw, .without whose co-operation I never could have won the

event.

J. B. (Slim) Kirkpatrick.
P.S.—Not for publication, but if the
ladies had left the field I could have
made that last jump.”’

Thanks, &verybody

 

  
   

 

Murray Rankin, Pres. Students’ Council

Thanks E veryody

Thanks to the members of the football
teams who carried Dalhousie to a double
victory over Acadia on Tuesday. Vastly
improved playing plus the old Dalhousie
fight turned the trick in the face of the
toughest kind of opposition.

Thanks to the student body for the
wonderful support which they gave to
the teams, for the enthusiasm shown in
the parade after the game, and at the
Majestic in the evening.

Thanks to the members of the Senate
and of the Faculty who showed their
college spirit by turning out en masse.

Thanks to the members of the Alumni
who came to cheer for their Alma
Mater. May we see them in greatly
inereased numbers when the teams play
the Wanderers on Saturday.

Lastly, but far from least, thanks to
the members of the Dalhousie Band
for the splendid manner in which they
contributed to making the whole day
the success it was.

Let us all, Faculty and_ Students,
realize a new stimulus to the old Dalhousie Spirit and do everything in our

wer to foster it and raise it to an even

igher level.
MURRAY M. RANKIN,

President,

Council of the Students,

 

   

 

 

     

 

Half-Century Rivals

ToClash Saturday

MOST CRUCIAL GAME

OF SEASON

 

SPORT COMMENTS

Dalhousie you have a great tradition
behind you. Above is a picture of a
Dalhousie—Wanderers game in 1901.
Imagine it:—27 years ago—before you
ever saw a rugby game—Dalhousie
and Wanderers were fighting over a
piece of pig-skin. Yea, even before
that: fifty years ago Dal fought with the
same foes for supremacy on the football
field, and now again a half a century
later Will they fight. Dalhousie keep
up the tradition.

DAL vs WANDERERS

Saturday afternoon on the Studley
field Dalhousie and Wanderers, rivals
for nearly half a century, will battle
in what is the most crucial game of the
Halifax. rugby league to be played this
year. With four teams in the circuit
the league standing is a very uncertain
thing. A victory for the Tigers tomorrow will mean that they will have
a comfortable berth at the top of the
league but a victory for the men from
Redland will mean that Dal will have to
share this berth with their non-collegiate rivals. The .team is in fine shape
after Tuesday’s strenuous game with
Acadia and all that is needed for another win is the whole hearted support
of the student body.

A big feature of the Dal-Acadia game
was the cheering efforts from the rival
stands. The Tiger adherents numbering about six hundred, with a twentyfive piece band thrown in, had plenty
of volume in their rendering of the
various yells but seemed to lack the
pep displayed by the smaller contingent
of Acadia adherents whose battle
cries inspired their team more than anything else to fight as they did to the
last whistle. Let there be more and

better cheering when Dal takes the
field Saturday.
GRANDSTAND RUGBY

At a football game there is always a
crowd; sometimes just a few hundred
or at other times a few thousand but
whether it be big or small the crowd
at a rugby tussle always has plenty of
color and enthusiasm. At last Saturday’s game with the Services there
were about two hundred spectators
while at Tuesdays epic struggle there
were over two thousand but there was
proportionally as much’ enthusiasm
displayed at both games.

College spirit is a great thing at a
game but it is evidently bad medicine
to some people. The following is
clipped from a local daily and is without
doubt the experience of many people who
paid their fifty pence to see two university teams in action. The tale deals
with the experience of one who happened
to get wedged in the middle of the
crowd in the Dal stand. He suffered
with others but all will be back in the
same place for the next game.

Didja ever get caught amongst a
mob of howling collegians at a football
match? You decide to move about a
bit, when you find you can’t. Some
one is sitting on your hand, or standing
on your foot. Some feller tears down
the field for a great run—and you get
a sharp slbow in the ribs. While
lighting a cigarette a student tips
your hat off. You are just feeling
somewhat comfortable when the cheer
leader orders the “‘boys’’ to stand.
Rather than be conspicuous you stand.
You sit down just as the game ends.
On the way home you hear the fellows
talking about the poor chap who. had

his leg scraped in the second period. .

?

Pore feller!

BASKETBALL TRIP

Manager George MacIntosh of the
basketball team will soon have his men
out on the floor for their initial work out.
Prospects for a winning team are ex
ceptionally bright this year with many

of last season's regulars back on th®
iob and a large number of newcomer®
from other universities confident o
making the team. Last year the hoop
men failed to bet their usual trip but
plans call for several games away from
home this season. There was some
talk of a trip to Boston or a tour through
New Brunswick and Maine for the
basketball squad during the Xmas
holidays but as yet there has been
nothing definite announced. It would
be-a great thing if a trip like the above
could be taken during the holidays as
the team would have a fine opportunity
for getting into shape for the opening
game of the city league in January.
ANTI-KNOCK BRIGADE

‘Gate Crashing’’ seems to be a popular sport at Dalhousie home games.
Ticket takers get tickets, passes, excuses,
hard luck stories (or what have you)
during the course of their afternoon's
work. It costs students but twentyfive cents for a reserved seat but there:
were some who thought this too much.
Some Dalhousians came in over the
wall while others crashed through
elsewhere. Included in the latter class
were members of the weaker sex. All
the ticket takers are Dal students and
it seems rather cheap for a university
student to crash through on the strength
of friendship. It places the ticket
taker in an embarassing position as he is
duty bound to follow out his instructions.

Scoring their third victory in as many
games the Dal intermediates trounced
the Acadia intermediates by a 6—0
score as a preliminary game to the
main go on Tuesday afternoon. The
locals treated the crowd to some fine
football which was not bettered in the
following senior game.

The Junior Tigers look good for the
championship this year. In the three
games played they have amassed a
total of 29 points while their line has
yet to be crossed.

Sensational open field running was the
big feature of the game. Time after
time the locals broke away to make
some flashy runs down, the field and
only the grim determination of the
visitors kept them from scoring in the
first half.

In the second half the Valley team
weakened and were forced to see their
line crossed twice, the first on a pretty
run by Mahon who passed to Thompson
for the try, and the second coming
when Captain Fred Jennings plunged
through just before the final whistle.

Eaton, Goudge, Mahon and Thompson were outstanding for Dal who lined
up with Goudge at fullback; Thompson,
Murray, Eaton, and _ Ross, halves;
Jennings, Fraser, Power, Quarters;
McRae, Conrod, Mahon, Miller, Magonet, Scott and McLeod, forwards.

ee

A WARNING
The library's a long room
The library is high
Great beams above the library
Reach up to meet the sky.
And in the room are many desks
And seats where people sit,
To read the books upon the shelves
Around the walls of it.

And, at the entrance of the room

There is a note which says,

That people who come in to read

Must never, never raise

Their voices any higher

Than a whisper or a sneeze,

And those who do not heed will
hear

‘No consultation Please’!

And so at almost any time

It is a quiet room,

And semi-silence reigns supreme—

Except, perhaps at Friday noon.

Wherefore let age protect you all

Frosh, listen to my pleas

Or you'll be reprimanded with:

‘No consuliation, Please.’

Gireatest Show of College

Consciousness in Years

 

 

 

Ainouncement

MORE COMPETITIONS

In order to encourage youthful
litarary aspirants, the Gazette
has arranged to offer five more
prizes besides the ten already
announced. Every four issues
there will be 2 prizes for prose and
one for poetry. Very shortly
the Gazette will announce further competitions.

ee ee

THEATRE NIGHT IN
1901

SAME AS TO-DAY?

 

 

_ In former years it was the custom,
if we were so fortunate as to win the
Football Trophy, for the boys to celebrate by attending the Academy of
Music. From this has developed
- Theatre Night,’ which is likely ‘here to
stay, whether Trophies are won or not,
—for Theatre Night is a pleasant thing.

The Committee in charge settled on
Saturday, Dec. 7, as Dalhousie Theatre
Night. The committee, with A. H.
>. Murray as chairman, did their best
to arrange for a good evening. The
play was changed from ‘Under Two
Flags’ to ‘The Gilded Fool’, that
nothing in the play might depress the
spirits of the more tender-hearted in
the assembly.

Manager Medcalfe was most obliging
and did everything in his power to
suit the convenience of the students.
The balcony was reserved for the students and it was about two-thirds filled
with a good-humoured crowd of Dalhousians. The lady students, well chaperoned, occupied seats in the orchestra.
The Academy was decorated with yellow
and black bunting. On either side of
the Stage was a banner, on one was set
forth the valorous deeds of the First
Football team, ten victories and one
defeat, 103 points against 14. The
other banner told of the success of the
Junior Team, which won five games and
scored 40 points, and none scored against
them.

A programme of singing was carried
out between the acts, beginning with
the old ‘Overcheuer’ ‘Good morning,
have you used Pear’s Soap.’

The play was well put on by the
Harkins’ Company. - All wore some
Dalhousie ribbon. Mr. Morrison as
De-Peystre Ruthven had a yellow and
black tie which the most ardent Dalhousian would hesitate to wear to a
Football game. It was indeed a power.

sO

 

Bring Your Lungs to the Game
TOMORROW

 

The Commerce Society held a meeting Tuesday morning to discuss bus
Matheson, the
‘There were

iness matters. Rand
president, was in the chair.
about 20 members present.

Professor Ganong, who was elected
honorary president at the last meeting
of the society, was present and thanked
those present for the honor they had
bestowed upon him. He told _the
meeting that he was willing at all times
to do anything for their benefit.

There will be a society party this
evening, it was announced and on the
following Friday there will be a smoker.
Both of these functions will be held at:
the Commerce residence.

Louis McKenna was elected to inquire as to the price of Commerce rings
and pins and to make arrangements for |
securing such.

Rand Matheson told the meeting
that he was trying to make arrangements
to have a prominent business man of the
city address the society on Friday
afternoon.

F reshie-Soph Dance

Freshie-Soph best dance of the year is
the prophecy of the dancing prophets.
The floor, the music, the refreshments,
the decorations, the girls, the night,
everything was perfect.

Credit goes to Class '31 for this dance
at which they entertained more than
four hundred students.

Tom Goudge as President of the
Sophomores welcomed the Freshmen to
the college and officially released them
from the bonds of initiation. The President of the Frosh, in reply, thanked

 

 

the Sophomores for entertaining his
class.

The chaperons were Dr. and Mrs.
H. P. Bell, Prof. and “Mrs. W. R.

Maxwell, Mrs. W. F. McCurdy, Prof.
M. M. MacOdrum.

The Committee in charge was:
Miss Helen Williams, Miss Mary Crocker, Miss Jean Morton, A. G. Cooper,
R. G. Harris, T. A. Goudge, W. T.
Dauphinee.

Music by the Henrion Orchestra.

|STUDENTS PARALYZE

TRAFFIC

What was the wildest and most

enthusiastic demonstration in the
annuals of the university was held on
Tuesday when about five hundred
Dalhousie students celebrated the victory of the football team over Acadia
by an impromptu parade through the
streets at the conclusion of the game
and a monster theatre party in the evening.
_ When Charlie Jones went over the
line for the try that meant victory
for the Tigers hundreds of students and
other swarmed down on the battle-field
to celebrate. The field was cleared
with some difficulty and two minutes
later the final whistle signalled the
cessation of hostilities and the beginning
of a wild Dalhousie display. Led by
Sina Singer’s band the students poured
out of the stands for the parade through
the streets. A sixteen foot sign giving
the scores of the two teams came first,
then the band and following close
behind the horde of cheering students.
Showing little respect for traffic the
procession wended it's way down
>pring Garden Road, tram car operators tore their hair and knashed their
teeth when the trolley poles were lifted
off the wire, police officers swore and
looked as if a trifle peeved, ice cream
parlors closed their doors, and evervone
had a nice time. :

The procession was a trifle’ noisy
going down Spring Garden Road but
on Barrington St. it was more or less
deafening. The first half of the trip
finished at the Government house and
aiter a demonstration in front of the
Lord Nelson Hotel the several hundred
spirited ones separated. E. W. Beatty,
president of the C. P. R. and a keen
follower of football, was the big attractlon at the Lord Nelson and sent down
his best wishes to the Dalhousie football team.

Nigger Heaven" that popular rend
ezvous of students in the Majestic
theatre was packed in. the evening.
Singing, with not much attempt at

harmony, and a few dozen lusty renderings Of various college yells entertained
the audience who didn't seem to mind
getting a paper aeroplane in the eye
or being the target of other missles. The
picture was a dramatic one but with
sub-titles run in by the occupants of the
gods it lost the greater part of it’s
dramatic effect.

_Yaken in all the celebration in honor
ol victory was a big success. It should
be even better this afternoon and the
city looks to be In for a hard time when
the Tigers clinch the honors of the
City League.

A Tragic: Episode

The night was dark, the wind whistled
and howled, the rain came down. in
torrents, the elements seemed to be in
league with those mauraders that had
come from nobody knew where to prey
on civilization, those wild intracable
beasts that had descended on mankind
as a plague. The terror had reached
such proportions in some districts that
it was no longer safe for men to venture
forth leaving their women folk at
home unguarded lest they return to
find a mother, a wife, a sweetheart
stretched stiff and cold following the
ravages of the beasts. ’

It was just as a neighboring -clock
struck the midnight hour that in the
living-room of a certain mansion,
apparently so peaceful in its stately
grandeur, an awful tableau was being
enacted. Beside the comfortable chair
from which she had just risen stood a
girl, one hand clasping the slim white
column of her throat as though she
would remove the lump that was choking
her while her other hand was outstretched to ward off the danger that threatened. Her mouth was open in an inarticulate effort to summon the help
she so sorely needed; her eves were
distended with horror as her fasinated

| gaze remained riveted to the entrance

leading into the hall. As she looked
the portieres covering the arched doorway swayed lightly as though pushed
from without and then fell to place
again. It seemed to the girl that her
heart must surely pound its way through
her breast and the excruciating agony
of her throbbing temples drive her
insane. Then, as she watched, the
portieres parted near the floor and a
black, moist, glistening nose appeared
followed by twin smoldering fires, the
eyes of a beast; while in the darkness of
the hall a long tail lashed from side to
side. At this terrible apparition the
poor girl, at last breaking the bonds of
lear, with one ear-splitting shriek, leapéd
to the table-top while the mouse scampered to the cellar door.

=D, J. He

 

THREE

Dalhousie has won three games this
year, and in each of these three games
the blonde haired figure of Charlie
Jones, Tiger's backfield player has been
outstanding. In the game with Mount
Allison last week it was Jones who carried
the ball across the line in the last minute
of plav for the try that meant victory.
Again on Tuesday it was the same
player who plunged over the line for the
only try of the game. Charlie seems to
have an abundance of that stuff they
call “scoring punch.” It seems to be
much stronger than the liquid dished
out at Dal dances,

 
     
 
   
  
   

te
Pe

mit oe

   

iG ma
i Va 5
“ ™

 

ee

eo «
j

oo

me if

CPt eR

Pee Bh a F s
res —— 3
eo SAS
; ee

:
ae, eat

_itime Colleges.

~ undeserved.

condition.

  

" |

 

JENNINGS

, On perhaps every student activity
‘Dalhousie has at some time been indebted for her leaders to other Mare Last year the Editor
of the Gazette came to us from the
neighboring University, St. F. X. There
he had graduated in Arts and had
taken also his Masters Degree.

While at St. F. X. Mr. Jennings had
served on the staff of the Xaverian and
‘afterwards he spent two years with
the St. John Telegraph Journal. He was
therefore well qualified for his work as
Editor of the Dalhousie Gazette.

That the Gazette profited by Fred's
capability is evident to anyone who

 

_ watched the issues of last year.

_ But it is not only to the Gazette that
Fred Jennings has given his attention.
The second football team, which almost
bids fair to rival the renown of the first,
is this year under his captaincy. The
Newman Club has selected him as its
President and the Med Frat numbers
him in its brotherhood.

The Gazette is pleased to acknowledges
its indebtedness to Fred for his last

_year's work and wishes him success in

every other avenue to which his abilities
may be directed.

MORTON

_ A last year’s issue of the Gazette liste:
Kelly as ‘‘in the limelight at Dal’.
His activities have been so numerous
and so varied that the caption 1s not
On his first year he was
President of his class. He has been
in numerous Glee Club successes. e

 

has helped to make Convocation Play

the Institution ithas become. He has
tried his hand, or rather his voice, at
debating. He has helped to put enthusiasm into many a Dal game by leading
off the One! Two! Three. He has
enlivened readers of the Gazette with
most deverting articles concerning everything from Freshettes to Philosophy.
And last year he was chosen Business
Editor for the Gazette.
Oliver Goldsmith another literary
genius was not at all expert in matters
relating to mere filthy lucre. Kelly,
blessed with more versatility, was a
success not only with matters literary

but also with the handling of the Gaz-|

ettes finances. We predict that when
he is owner of some future big paper he

‘will not only be able to write an inter
esting Editorial but will be able to
calculate accurately the profits from his
advertisements.

" Field Meet

This morning the annual inter-faculty
track and field meet is being held on the
Studley campus. All the faculties have
strong teams and all the competitors
are right in that old familiar color,
which is used to denote the peak of
Some promising material
was unearthed in the Freshman meet
especially in the running events and
when these stars clash with the prize
athletes of the Forrest Building the
morning’s sport should attract a large
crowd of spectztors.

—_———

EXTRACTIONS

An enthusiastic meeting of the Dental
Society was held in the Dental theatre
on Saturday the 20th. In the matter
of new business Omar Taylor suggested
that the Dental Society hold something
of the nature of the Arts’ class parties,
but this idea received little support
when the prospect of another smoker
was suggested. Indeed, there is a

reference among the men of the Dental
College for strictly bachelor entertainments, although the benedictine influence creeps in occasionally when some
newly smitten member wishes to spurt
before his more or less fortunate confreres his newly acquired better half.
Doug Hill promised that if the other
committee-men showed more co-operation the success of the first smoker
of the term might even be surpassed.

Eddie Cragg was elected to the dance
committee to replace George MacIntosh
who found it necessary to resign because
of the press of other duties: one of the
latter’s important college posts is
secretary of the Students’ Council.

The banquet committee were urged
to get busy and draw up a schedule for
the first banquet which is to be held
about the middle of November. —

Some interest was shown in the
formation of a ball team to play in the
softball league at the Studley gym,
but whether such a team will materialize
is highly problematical.

At the behest of Our Worthy Dean
ways and means of acquiring an efficient

-ray equipment were considered and
a motion was passed to turn over to this
very deserving cause any surplus that
‘might be in the treasury of the Society.

1e des Community Plate refer

 

seer
_ to a second-hand denture?

Ac : Be true to your teeth or they'll
be false to you. —

La ~ . :

e Editor and
iness Manager of Year Still Active

 

_ JENNINGS AND MORTON

Gditor Last Year

ne t/t

’

ed

  

 

Fred Jennings, Pres. Newman Soctety

 

 

Registration

a la Shakespeare

 

lately
over, the Registrar busily working, in
his office in the Dalhousie Memorial

Halifax. Summer vacation

Library. ‘Tis the last week of September. On the week following, classes
in Arts and Science will begin with all
their grimness and reality. The steps
of the Library serve as a rendezvous to
renew old acquaintances. Individuals
of every description wend their way
to and from this motley crowd, assembled on the stairway. In every case the
status of those approaching the group

can be readily determined by their

manner and step.

At first the Freshman, t
Quaking and shaking in his latest suit;
Then the lordly sophomore, with his
trench coat
And shining derby hat, with step more
sure
Than he can really feel. And then the

junior,

Sighing like a furnace, with a woeful

» story

About his History failure. Then a
senior,

Full of strange tales, and moustache
shining bright,

Jealous of no ene, monarch and lord of
Studley,

Seeking degrees, B. A., or B. Sc.

Even boasting of it too. And
professors,

These with large corporations,

With bloating eyes, yet smiling all the
while.

What do they mean?
and know.

And so he passes on.
shifts

Into the cute and shapely girl Freshette,

With Three Flow'rs Talc on nose and
rouge on cheeks;

Her youthful hose, well seen, a world too
much

By those nearby.
ways,

Turning again to child-like form, she asks

Where Murray may be found. Last of
all,

To come upon the throng assembled
here,

Is the old grad., returned to see the fun.

Sans car? Sans fame? Hell! no. SANS
NOT A THING.

—A,. D. G.

then

Most of us sigh

The next type

And her coquettish

——$

Arts 6 =-- Law 0

ent

Arts defeated Law 6——0 in a scheduled
game of the Inter-faculty rugby league
played Tuesday morning. Both teams
put up a fine~xhibition with the Artsmen holding a big edge in territory.
The first half was scoreless but in the
second the Studley machine got going
good and when Tom Parker and Herbie
Lamb each notched up a try the lawyers
saw that they had lost their case.
Maurice ‘“‘Whacky’’ MacKinnon who
played a fine game for the losers suffered
a bad injury to his shoulder which will
keep him our of the game for a while.
Archie MacDonald refereed in a wise
and efficient manner.

The Line-ups. Arts—lraser, fullback; Macleod, Bouyer, Maxwell, Parker, three-quarters; Lamb, Jemmott,
McLean, halves; stewart, Gaum, Finlayson, MacDonald, Medjuck, Temple
man, Grant, forwards.
Law—McKinnon, full-back; Puddister, Fay, Gavsie, Morton, three-quarters;
Chisholm, Keating, Greene, halves;
Dorwell, Levy; McNaught, Turnbull,
McQuarrie, Shaw, forwards.

  
    
      

jownership thrust

    

student?

    
     
   
   
    

  

The Gazette and The Collegians

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

hool’s Diamond Ju

By E. XC. Howse

When the new student paid his fees to
the University it may have escaped his
notice that he tpso facto became part
owner and proprietor of a weekly paper.
Yet so it was. Some are born owners,
some achieve ownership and some have
upon them.
What should the paper do for the

The college paper should be to some
extent a news paper. The Dalhousian
who readsthe Gazette should be kept
adequately informed of the affairs of the
college. He should know the different
activities attracting different types of
students. He shouldknow the varying
branches of sport in which students
participate and the measure of success
or disaster which they achieve. He
should be able to discover also the
literary interests and pursuits of that
relatively unimportant section of the
student body which has had some introduction to study. So much _ unquestionably the paper should do.
The student cannot watch all the games,
nor attend all the affairs in which he is
personally interested. But if he is
unavoidably absent from a rugby final
he should be able to read a careful and
well judged report in his next Gazette;
if he misses a meeting of Sodales he
should be able to learn what were the
arguments pro and con on the subject
for debate, and what were the opinions
of the meeting on the argument and the
speakers. And if he wishes to learn
something about the groups in the college
which are outside his personal acquaintance the college paper should be a medium for better knowledge and fuller
understanding. There is a certain value
in even a newspaper.

But the Gazette should be more than
a newspaper. It is not sufficient that
there be gathered together in weekly
columns the incidentals to the collegiate
existence of commonplace undergraduates. The paper should exist not only
to speak about them but also to speak
for them. It should be the forum for
our academic polis. Here should the
first faltering accents of the entrant to
vernal polemics be developed into the
ready and effective speech of the practised writer. Scarcely any more real
service could be rendered to the untried
but eager student. Perhapa in our
unsuspecting halls there are many who
for years have heen fairly bursting with
the desire to express fittingly to the
world their impatience with some ot its
special inadequacies: the incompetency
of the schools, the foolishness of religion, or the stupidity of people in
general. The Gazette provides an admirable safety valve for this long repressed emotion. The would be apologist has an excellent opportunity of
presenting his ideas to his fellows, and
of learning whether he can do so with
cogency and weight. Whatever be the

turn to which the student’s inclinations
direct him the Gazette is at hand to
pioneer his appearance into print.
The Gazette is of, by, and for, the student
Through it the student can, and should,
speak to his collegiate world.

There is even more whith
the Gazette should do. It should do
more than merely to reflect disunited
opinions. To some extent it should
create and guide opinion. Much as
this seems to be like the dumb leading
the dumb it is not so altogether. Even
in a college very cautiously must faith
be put in the wisdom of the mass.
Even here there will be many who hear
for every one who sees. Even here
we find popular prejudice, religious, or
racial, or personal. There will be
problems to decide where the real issue
will be clouded by the fags of petty
politics. There will be candidates-to
choose when the chief qualifications
of some will be their devotion to the
dance hall. -There will be decisions to
make when fact is lost in the obscurity
of opinion. The Gazette has a duty to
perform and a service to render. Insistence upon impartial statement :of
fact, and a continuous stand for progressive measures while rejecting unworthy means, will enable the paper
to make a needed assistance to the
health of our body academic.

May we not add one thing more?
Should not the college paper be a Link
between college and home. It is
probable that relatively few Gazettes
find their way from boarding house to
home. Yet where would a_ weekly
bulletin of college news be more acceptable? There are of course times when
Gazettes are mailed. Some one has
left home for the first time and makes
a class or college team. The Gazette
makes mention of creditable play.
Naturally the Gazette goes jubilantly to
the post box. Or someone else makes a
Debating team, or scores a hit in the
Glee Club, and again the Gazeite is in
the family mail. But need that be all?
May not the paper be of interest even
when it has not any intimate mention
of the particular family. To some
extent the paper is a reflection of college
life, of college values, of college ways
and thought, and to whom could this
be of more interest than to the authors
of college material? Possibly a not
unwelcome iricrease in the subscription
list could be made if the young hopefuls
abroad would remind headquarters that
a personal copy of the Gazette might be
sent every week and that the subscription price is one dollar per year,

We might mention still other things
which the readers might expect of the
college paper but there is unfortunately
a more unwelcome side which now
needs a little attention. What can the
paper itself expect of its readers and
owners?

Che fMlills of the Gods

 

NARCISSA

 

Narcissa Walters was the most
beloved woman in the small town of
Haley, Mass. She was known affectionately, by her first name to every man,
woman and child in the town. Her
husband, Richard had always struggled
for a livelihood for his small family.
But his home was invariably open to the
needy and suffering and many a hungry
person who passed through Haley
enroute to Garton was well caréd for
at the Walters’ home.

That Narcissa went without supper,
after some poor soul had eaten in her
little kitchen with its two tiny windows,
no one ever new. That she gave
away to a little old woman every cent
of her savings—money, which she had
been putting away with great difficulty
and with which she had hoped to buy
for herself and for the children some
clothes—not even Richard was aware.
Yes, always pleasant, always gentle,
never complaining and ready to lend
a hand where it was needed badly—
thus was Narcissa Walters known to us
in our little town of Haley.

Just at the time when fortune began
to favour Richard and when he and
the family began to enjoy life—Suddenly—we learned that Narcissa had
taken ill and before one of us could
realize the serious nature of her sickness,
she was gone—snatehed away at the}
moment when life was just beginning ,
for her. Oh, Narcissa, Narcissa.

_—————

EL

 

ES

 

OLD MAIDS

The Old Maid’s Sorority of Shirreff
Hall is seriously considering the
question of instituting a libel suit
against the Gazette for the blasphemous
assertions regarding their last meeting.
The Students’ Council dance was only
mentioned in a vague way and touched
lightly upon as if it were tomorrow’s
Latin Class—something “one has to
attend, but nothing to be taken seriously. The Sorority is thinking deeply on
the subject of conducting a matrimonial
bureau in order to handle the excess
men who insist on cluttering the sacred
precints of the Hall and demanding an
Old Maid for company. A slight fee
will be charged, but this will be used
for a good purpose, namely that of
employing a washwoman to take the
oil off the Gym floor. Several Old

 

oo

BABBIT

Arlen Somners, President of ‘‘Somners Limited’’ surveyed his luxuriously

furnished office with an approving
glance. Everything was just as he
wanted it to be. His cruel features

relaxed somewhat as he glanced at his
beautiful gold watch. Time certainly
was flying. He would phone up his
wife and tell her that he would not be
home tonight. Important business necessitated him leaving for Boston immediately. He laughed as he thought
of the important business. Oh well,
what his wife did not know would not
hurt her.

His fancy drifted... He was thinking of his sensational rise to fame and
fortune. Today, he was reckoned as
one of the most influential men in the
State. But he had enemies. People
hated him—hated him for his cruelty—
because he had sworn to help no one—
to show no mercy.

He came back to reality and found
his secretary standing before him.

“Sir, the Committee for the ‘‘Widows
and Orphans Home” is here again.
They are asking for a month’s grace
will you will you, Sir?”’"—

The faltering voice died out as the
word “No” was hissed through compressed lips. A few minutes later
six doencast men filed out of the building and as they walked away one could
hear a loud laugh which came from the
open window of the President's office.

 

Maids are still suffering from thé
Students’ Council dance and corn
aad bunion plasters have been at a
“premium (page Commerce students)
ever since.

If the Gazette insists further with
their untruthful reports, the case will
be taken before the Moot Court.

The next meeting of the Old maids
is to take the form of a dance and more
anon.

“The Tattler”’.

—_—_
Ward MacLean has been appointed
as manager to the Arts football team,
which is making quite an effort to acquire
the Shield.

: * * *

Studley bridge tournament will begin
tomorrow, Saturday and along with
it the committee on attendance.

—_——L——

=

 

bile

October’ 26th, 1923>

 

 

Provincial Medical

Convention At

Lord Nelson

 

MEDS HEAR EMINENT DOCTORS

 

 

| Was Business Manager

  

Ralph S.

Morton

 

Once upon a time there lived in Rome
a little Roman, and he was a very good
little boy, the pride and joy of his parents.

One day he said to his father ‘‘Pater,
(you. see he spoke Latin fluently), give
me a denarius.”’

‘What are you going to buy with the
denarius meo filio” asked his father
who also spoke Latin ‘‘O. K.” said filio.
I am going to buy a catapult that one
of the ancient Britains have made’’.
So pater gave him the coin and little
Decius, this was his name, bought the
catapult and had great fun with it
knocking flies off statues in the Forum.
Sometimes he would knock an ear off a
bust but that only made the bust more
valuable. But one day when he was
practicing by the shore of the Tiber
he hit old Horatius who was rehearsing
his ‘‘Keeping of the Bridge’ and Horatius got mad and said ‘‘Dammum tuum
et Catapultum’” which means you
can’t shoot for nuts, So Decius had to
memorize the book of the twelve table
for punishment and was only allowed
to shoot in his father’s garden. Now
Decius’s father kept a lot of slaves and
one day, by accident of course, Decius
killed a slave and didn’t tell his father
who was very angry because no more
slaves could be bought for several days,
as there was a festival. Then on the
next day Desius killed another and his
pater got mad again and said ‘‘he could
not go on buying new slaves every week,
besides the blacksmith charged too
much for fitting chains.”’ So he cussed
a lot in bad Etruscan and swore that
if he ever caught the culprit he would
hand him up by the ears. Now Decius
did not relish being hung up by the ears.
but being a true Roman he confessed
to his pater and as his pater was a real
Roman he couldn't break his vow so he
cried.

Oh Decius, Decius what
done with my slave!

And Decius was all set for a hanging.

Then a slave to whom Decius had
been kind, indeed the slave was a prince
of Ancient Britain and he used to tell
Decius stories of the little ancient
Britains who tore around in bear skins;
of course Decius didn’t believe a word of
it but it was nice of the slave nevertheless.

As I said before this slave hearing
of Decius’ fate pretended that he had
killed the slaves so poor pater was nonplussed; then he went off to the vestal
virgins and asked them what they were
going to do about it, and the vestal
virgins said for him to release both
Decius and the slave and to drink a
glass of water every morning and no
more of his slaves would be killed.

So away went pater and released them
and they all lived happily ever after
hast thou

wards. Decius becoming a famous
Latin poet who wrote a_ touching
sé % + ‘ ? _
Ode to Caesar’s Death", the den
ouement of which goes—(tune He was
my man).

Caesar ran down the back stair-case
Telling Brutus for God's sake don’t

shoot.

But Brutus took aim with his little 44
And the gun went, toot-te-to-toot,

For he killed that man

Who had done him wrong!

—$ —___.4—________

Dalhousie has secured an exwrestling Champion of Canada to
instruct students in the science of wrestling. The hours of the classes can be
arranged to suit the convenience of the
students. Everybody will start on
equal terms as beginners.

Register right
away at the gym for the classes in
wrestling.

\/
“9

_ Last week was as busy as it was
interesting for the Medical students of
Dalhousie. The convention of the
Medical Association of Nova Scotia
which was held in the new Lord Nelson
Hotel and in the Victoria General Hospital marked the seventy-fifth year of the
association's existence and the Diamond
Jubilee of the Dalhousie Medical School.
The members of -the fourth and final
years of medicine attended many of the
morning clinics in the Victoria General
and gleaved many morsels of invaluable
knowledge from the noted clinicians who
conducted these proceedings. The general medical student body took advantage of the very kind invitation of the
N. 5. Medical Association to hear the
addresses delivered in the Georgian
Room of the Lord Nelson where some
of the foremost Canadian men in
medicine delivered very interesting
instructive lectures.

During the week Dr. J. W. Crane
pharmacologist at University of Western Ontario, London, gave an address
to the student Medical Society. Dr.
Crane has a manner and _ personality
which immediately awakened a sympathetic and attentive hearing from the
students and became at once a general
favorite with the students.

Dr. Boyd, eminent pathologist of
Winnipeg gave a very interesting paper
On typhoid fever. Boyd’s Surgical
Pathology, a volume well-known to cliniclan and student alike was adequate
introduction for this lecture and, needless
to say, his remarks were received with
pleasure.

Through the activity of the Medical
executive Thursday, Oct. 18, was proclaimed an official holiday. The medical
students and the council were the guests
of the Board of Governors at a luncheon
in the Lord Nelson, attended also by
members of the N. S. Medical society.
At this luncheon the university symphony orchestra with S. S. Singer
leading, made a name for itself. The
orchestra also played in the evening
at the Medical banquet at which many
of the medical students attended.
The president of the Dalhousie Student
Medical society, Ian Macdonald proposed a toast to the ‘Dalhousie Graduates, new and old”’.

Considering the whole week, the
medical students enjoyed a period of
interest, pleasure and profit. The sincere thanks of the studetits.is due to the
many who made student participation
in the events of the week possible.
The Assistant dean of medicine, Profl
R. J. Bean, by his interest and ready
aid, was the moving spirit of the week
as far as the students were concerned.
Prof. Bean has on many occasions showed his whole hearted interest in the
medical students and his self-sacrificing
work has been highly commended.

With the cooperation received from
the president of the university, the
clinicians and the N. S. Medical Assoclation the Dalhousie Medical Society
should accomplish much this year.

DENTS AND MEDS GAME

Dentistry and Medicine battled to a
scoreless draw in a scheduled game of the
Intercollegiate league played Thursday.
Play was fairly even with both teams
getting some ‘‘near-scores.”’

Meds.—Outhouse, Murphy, Anderson, Douglas and Wood. MacDonald
Whitley and Fraser, Johnson, Marshall
Grant, McCurdy and Calver.
Dents.—Keefe, Sullivan, Peters, Lebisky, Cameron, Oldfield, Dupbury and
Taylor. MacIntosh, Parker, Buffet,
ae McMullen, McPherson and Mc
ape.

a

The Last Stand

Women are now supplanting
One hears on every hand,

It seems they have more acumen
And power to command.

Now we mere men will not deny
That they may equal us,

But still, no matter how they try,
They cannot really cuss.

?

men,

They seek that boyish silhouette,
Demand the boyish bob,

Affect the boyish cigarette,
And take a boyish job;

But though they may be just as deft

_ And Cosmopolitan,

Our sex has still one stronghold left,
[hey can't cuss like a man.

Why even parliamentary life,
A number have in view.

Before long, some poor fellow’s wife,
Will boss his country too.

But one thing all their pride upsets,
It seems most ludicrous:

The most pugnacious suffragettes
Could never really cuss.

L’Envoi

Or so I thought when I was young
And credulous and smug,—

I heard a sweet young thing give tongue.
—We still have Navy Plug!

—Geddee.

 
   

TIGERS

  

       

but

     
    
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
  

me *

8, where the Hart House String
e, of Toronto, gave an evening
ct music. Each tone, each
phrase, each alternating theme,
now by one, now by another
ment, blended exquisitely to build
e perfection of the ensemble. The
@ programme was flawless, and
ed an amazing variety of wonderful
music. Perhaps the most. familiar mast
rE oe. Was ubert’s ‘‘Death and the
Maiden”, the theme being embroidered

delightful variations. The closing
ction was a rather unusual Hungian composition, showing the update influence of jazz and “blues”.

 

(Continued from Page 1)
thing but coming out clean.

corner, just inches to the good.

DALHOUSIEJHAPP Y

 
  
  
   
    

inal whistle.

their efforts.

 
  

victory.

 

was easily their best effort this season.

  
  

 

  
   
 

me ‘i 5 New Tires—Good Condition
with Flowers, Say it with ours
as usual did not get the ball enough.
ae yo

eee Studebaker Touring |
. a : ase q : $225.00 |
en tlan tic Motor Sales
eat cf A Dondonald Street
at i. | THE HOME OF
«ts Cut Flowers K& Potted Plants

never before.

  
  

   
 

one of the features of the game.
are others who deserve individual
credit but more important the whole
team played remarkably well and look
good to whip the Wanderers to-morrow.
This Acadia team is certainly a fine
young aggregation of Rugby players.
Fighting spirit is 100% present in the
players and in the rooters. They are
light, fast, and boast some real stars.
Matthews with his speed is a corker,
Ryan, a blonde giant in everything but
stature, is one of the most efficient
quarters in the league. Eville is a fast
man and plays full back well. They
are certainly to be reckoned with.
Several of them were badly hurt in
Tuesday’s battle. Dal wishes them
speedy recovery and the best of luck.
Dalhousie—Fullback, MacDonald;

. ] to all parts of the world.
| The Rosery
ei 8 BLOWERS ST.

Phone Sac. 3321-3322
, Night Phone Sac, 1934

      
 

   
 

 

   

| George F. Power
| Eigars, Cigarettes, Tabacco

_ SMOKERS'JREQUISITES
of every Description

 
 
    
  
 
  

—Also— Three-quarters, Hewat, Sutherland,
; Wickwire, Jones; Halves, Maxwell,
{ Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax Sutherland, Davison; Forwards, Baird,
Townsend, Campbell, Woolner, Irving,
Majestic Bldg. Smith, Townsend.
HALIFAX, * N. S. ————_———

Debate Reform

(Continued from page 1.)

If these criticisms be justified and
considering they have originated from
more than one source, it must be granted
they are more than space-fillers. As

 

   

|| Text Books
|| Looseleaf Note Books

_ Special ‘‘Lab’’ Book

| Fountain Pens
_ _Eversharp Pencils

    

   

ia

\
|
ay a
a
te

consequently the only
alternative left is to believe that the
time is very ripe for a change. All
the critics are agreed upon that, but
not so are they in the manner of the
change. Many proposals have been
put forward, some bad, others good,
while the disadvantages entailed to
some outweigh the advantages. In the
latter I would number, a system involving interruptions. This in my
‘opinion would not be a satisfactory
change in that it would tend to give a
atmosphere of rowdyism to an otherwise semi-dignified proceedings. It
would be even more difficult to devise
ways and means to render such a procedure practicable. Who would interrupt? How? When and where? Are
the questions which immediately present
themselves. There are other schemes
of more practical benefit than this.
Nor do I think that the idea of choosing
the side immediately preceding the
debate would effect much of a change.
This would necessitate the already
over-worked elocutionists memorizing
tt ne one ee two speeches instead of one as now and
aE i that would be inhuman. Again it
ee ae ; might encourage the debating teams to
become worshippers at the shrine of the
goddess of Chance, which Heaven forbid!

But however, consider doing away

old system,

       
 

 

  

| pngaine: eS Sa iT aes pe
ye) Prompt | attention given

 
   

  

bs af iy Fountain Pen Repair
| Specialists

FARRELL’S
New Store
446 Barrington Street

   

 

 
     
       
   
 

tHE SONG SHOP +7.
for ANYTHING in
MUSIC

 
  
   
 
  
   
   

 

Globe Laundry Ltd |

   

 

he 50 Buckingham Street with the formal rebuttal but still allow- a ing the leader of the affirmative five
my! minutes to answer the arguments as

   

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres: |
CG. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’ |
Laundry |

Telephone Sac. 714
f ;

raised only by the last speaker of the
negative. What would be the result?
Each speaker would be forced to reply
to the previous one or else it would be
taken for granted that his arguments
were admitted. To more effectively
enforce and obtain such a result,
provide the judges with score-cards
allotting to each speaker a possible of
100 points divided into three parts.
40% for presentation, 30% for material
and 30% for refutation. If the judges
were to follow such directions then we
might have a debate rather than a
‘‘slorified oration". Then again, on the
card let it be distinctly pointed out
that those whose memory is the chief
qualification for their appearing on the
jlatform are to be regarded on a much
‘wie plane than those endeavouring to
debate and marked accordingly in the
presentation column on the card which
I | must later be sent out in duplicate form
i} | t6 the secretary of the Debating Union.
| Also a resolution might be passed
condemning the use of coaches and the
pernicious habit of having speeches
written by others than those speaking,
a copy of such a resolution could then
be sent to the various Presidents of the
Universities urging their co-operation
in this matter and thereby aid in lifting
intercollegiate debating to its proper
place.

    
     
   
    

  

Doubly Attractive |

SUITS, OVERCOATS |

FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

24

MADE TO-MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors]
THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS ff

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

      
   
     
    

Thanking you, Sir,
I remain,
MORRIS B. MacKINNON,
President of the Sodales Debating

Society.

a

    
    

   

“Ae

  

  
 
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  

ry rlection per- ik. . \
eee] TRIUMPHANT

and weak, the Acadians found it im-]]
possible to dam the tide of the Tizer
attack. More scrums on the visitois
five yard line, the ball was doing everyTime and
again Charley Jones was just a fraction
late on his wild plunge toward the line.
He kept trying desperately though and
finally he drove through over the East

As Davison attempted an impossible
convert the Acadians fell exhausted
behind their line; a beaten team if
ever there was one. Jones’ sensational
ry came just two minutes before the
Acadia. were down but
not out, only the final whistle ended
Bedlam reigned in the
Dal Stand during these closing moments
of the game and later a thousand strong,
the Tiger supporters paraded the streets
of the city in joyful acclaim of their

The game played by the Dal fifteen
The ha'f line functioned splendidly but

Our full-back, Well ‘nuff said, Archie
‘gained the confidence of the crowd as
Hewat, nailed the speedy
Eville with a vengeance, Charley Jones
is the hero and justly so, his payne

ere

yet no one has come out in defence of the.

Dreams

 

In young life, what are dreams to us:
These dreams of times to come?
To old folks, what are dreams to them:
Those dreams of days bygone?

To those on life’s vast threshold,
t seems a wondrous thing

To hear soft voices sing.

When all about is calm and still,
When freshness fills the air,

We feel we're glad to be on earth;
Glad God has put us there.

But why have we such feelings
At such a time as this?

These thoughts of peaceful bliss?

We're dreaming of what life portends;
Our bliss in times to come;
To-morrow’s happiness for us,

When all our work is done.

Again,—an ideal spot to dream

Is on a rocky shore,

“Where breaking waves dash high”,
tis said,

And falling, rise no more.

sea.
It seems that life's vast scope
Is there for our own eyes to see.
It fills our hearts with hope.

We feel the power of the waves,
Those surging towards the sky;

It grips us, holds us—taut—secure
It takes us up on high.

We feel we have such pow’r as this;

We haven't it today,

But times will come when we will have
Such power within our sway. .
So life goes on and still we dream

Of things life holds in store.

"Till middle age we dream of life

And then are dreams all o’er?

No! Then our dreams start looking back

To times that have gone by,

To the old days, when life was young

When thoughts we're raised so high.

Watch Grandad in the evening light,

As he sits in his leathern chair,

As he stares at the logs that are burning
bright

What is it he’s seeing there?

These things you and I cannot answer,

But his thoughts are far away.

Perhaps he’s thinking of olden times;

They are’nt thoughts of to-day.

So let’s not scorn life on this earth;

"Tis a wonderful place to be,

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   
  
 

To walk through forests—peaceful—still,

Why are we filled with thoughts so pure:

Our thoughts stretch 'way, ‘way out to

— ae

 

a ee ee

 

(Continued from Page 1)

On Wednesday Puddister K,  C.
appeared for the plaintiff, McNaught
K.C. and McCunn for the defendant captain, Vaughan, K. C., for the ship’s
carpenter. Mr. Justice Feaver, Gavsie,
C. J. and Mr. Justice Coffin graced the
bench.

The Court was now moved to hear the
case of three members of the Freshman
class, names unknown, who were indicated on a charge of vagrancy. A jury
was quickly empanelled.

The prosecution called only one
witness. His testimony however if
‘true brought the prisoners under every
section of the Criminal Code. He

| painted a very black picture of the

actions of the accused. Mr. McKinnon
defence’ counsel failed to shake the
testimony of witness for the Crown.
In all, six Freshmen were called as
witnesses for the defence. One by one
these witnesses succumbed to the
vicious cross-examination of the Crown
Prosecutor. The last survivor went
down under the following circumstances:

Mr. MacLellan cross-examining witness:—''Do you ever ‘wander’ in the
fields’’?

Witness: ‘‘Yes."’

“Do you know the meaning of the
word field”’.

Witness: ‘‘Yes”’.

‘What is it then’’.

Witness: ‘‘Field.”’

Mr. McLellan, with mighty contempt ‘‘Is that your idea of a field!”

Chief Justice: ‘Come, come my man,
you know what a field is. Tell the jury
what a field is!”’

Witness; ‘‘A field is any deserted open
space.”

Chief Justice: “Barrington St. at
3 a.m.? Remove this man Mr. Sheriff,
to be tried for contempt.”

Upon trial for contempt,
reacted as follows:

Mr. Turnbull cross-examining:—

‘Prisoner you are one of two things,
either you are guilty or not guilty.
You understand me? Guilty or not
guilty. Which one of these is it you
are not.”

Prisoner: ‘‘Not guilty.”

“You see my Lords? the accused
prefers to say he is guilty.”

The Chief Justice now charged the
Jury that they must bear in mind the

prisoner

But it's dreams which give all the joy] two great principles of the Moot Court

} to our lives;
It is not the reality.
—A. D.G.

———
THE PESSIMIST

 

Overheard at a dance.
_ “‘T don’t see a soul I know, do you? I
just know I’m going to have a rotten
time. Oh! there’s a boy I ought to get
a dance with. He's coming over here
now—Yes, I have a few left. The
fourth? All right—Well,
dance I'll have anyhow.
tall fair fellow over there?
who that is!
Here's another—Yes, | can let you have
the fifth—I wish he hadn’t asked me:
He’s a rotten dancer. His name? I forget. I met him at a class party. I
don’t see anyone else I know. My,
but this is dumb. I guess I'll go home
before the supper dance—Oh, hello
there! I’m sorry but I have the fifth
taken. The sixth?
I'll have to stay until after the sixth.
Oh dear! I wish I hadn’t come. I don’t

that’s one}.
Who's that|* °F should be, a very memorable

Oh, is that|©Poch in a student's career. Progress
I thought he 7 dark. | means change and in this instance the

in criminal sittings namely, ‘‘The prisoner is presumed guilty till he is proved
innocent “and” all doubts must be
resolved against the prisoners.’ The
court sentenced the prisoners to carry
all the books from the Court back to the
library.

The Initial Spell

(Dedicated to the Freshmen)
The transition from a High School

 

change, or rather changes, are mostly
of a radical nature; thus we note with
wonder, and sometimes regret, the

who may have spent but one year in
a University. College life is a very
potent moulder of mind and body and

All right—Now it seldom fails to leave its trace—for

better or for worse. ‘True there are
always a select few who somehow man
: . ; » sé e > j »? ‘pp
know a soul.’’—And so far into the] 2g¢ to navigate a ‘‘via media” between

night.

Likens Truth

 

e has
To Music parental institution is fondly referred

 

In his simple, yet inspiring address to
a select audience of Dalhousians, in the
Chemistry Theatre on Friday last, the
Rev. Mr. Maltby of England drew
interesting parallel. He spoke of the
wonderful beauty of music, and of the
loveliness of the sunset. ‘‘Now’ he
said, ‘‘persons having no ear for harmonies, nor sense of colour, are incapable of appreciating music and the
pageantry of the sky. But can they

deny the existence of these beautiful fee

things simply because
understand them? The I
true for the existence of God.

they cannot

same _ holds
One

cannot prove beauty, but one can learn];

to appreciate it; one cannot frae
loyalty, or goodness, but one can and
must learn to be sensitive to it.’’ His
most striking statement was about
evil: ‘‘The more one handles evil, the

less one knows about it, the duller one |

becomes’. Dr. MacMechan offered an
eloquent vote of thanks, with the
beautiful quotation: ‘‘O wisdom, thou
speakest like a dove’. We then announced the decision of the Senate of
Dalhousie to hold a Memorial Service
on Armistice Day, in the gymnasium,
as a tribute to those who gave all that
we might enjoy all things. —

On Saturday morning Rev. Mr.
Maltby spoke a second time. Mr.
Zwicker, of the S. C. A. of Dalhousie,
introduced the speaker to those who
were not present on Friday. Mr.
Maltby stressed the important fact of
humour in religion, showing how ‘‘edifiers’’ andtightly-wound people, ‘abandon’the subtle, humourous side of goodness, which is tolerance. He spoke of
the wonderful cheering effect of a smile,
illustrating this with reference to the
white-toothed African smile, and of the
hopelessness of sulks, like the children
who “would play neither at weddings
nor at funerals’. He said that it 1s
the gentle humour of Jesus Christ that
brings him nearest to us. At the close
of the talk, Mr. Zwicker thanked Rev.
Mr. Maltby for the kind interest in
Dalhousie and for the priviiege of listening toa so t-avelled and profound a man.

21 | bitions.

both the baleful and the _ beneficial
influences which college life affords,
but their passage is only momentarily
marked by a bubble in their wake.
For most of us our sojourn in college

a tremendous significance. The
to as our ‘Alma Mater,’ but might even
more aptly be termed our ‘nova mater’
because it is here we form new associations and friendships and begin to
nourish higher ideals and nobler amEven those of us who neglect
our studies for the pursuit of ephemeral
pleasures are being advantageously
influenced by contact with our classmates, because while we are living in
Rome, consciously or otherwise we are
affected in some measure by the Romans.
When a kid gets a new toy he usually
comes enamored of it and endows it
with human qualities. He treats it as
a new play mate and at first (believe it
or not) he-is almost too shy to play with
it. He handles it with extreme care
and insures its longevity with a network
of good resolutions. Unfortunately
these hasten along the road good resolutions often travel and very soon
the new toy descends from an artificial
pedestal of adoration to a humble
position among the rest of the teddy
Human nature has once more

ae

bears.
been true to form and the
has worn off.

Almost parallel with this simple
illustration is the experience of the new
student. His preconceived impressions
of a University are in the highest degree
respectful, not unmixed with reverence,
and his first actual observations do not
fail to enhance his earlier opinions.
The dignity of the buildings themselves
makes him realize that he on the threshold of an entirely new world and unconsciously he divines that a different
behaviour will be expected of him.
He is unaccustomed to being a member
of so large a body of students and his
ralative insignificance is painfully apparent. It is really quite inexplicable, that
somehow or other he doesn’t command
nearly as much attention as he used
to in High school—in fact he is disregarded so religiously that he wondered if he may have committed any
offense! He is surrounded by sincere
and purposeful students and immediately gets the notion that he too must
become determined. Everything is interesting and different and expecially—
novel.

novelty”

 

ANCE-LORD NELSON-OCT. 29 |

MOOT COURT |

 

magic transforniation in the character
and bearing of a young man or woman

——— Sa SS,

Page Five

a

Never Mind/

    

Hl
rT

Ask fo1

   

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

   
 
  
 

Shop

i Our New Department |
on the Ground
Floor.

JENSEN & MILLS

CO., LIMITED
Spting Garden Road

   

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tiekets
for $2.00,

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N.S.

 

Gauvin& Gentzel
Photographers

@ |

Barrington St.,

Sack 428 Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING : |
CLEANING PRESSING 18 Spring Garden Road |

Phone Sac. 692

 

WINNERS FROM THE

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS., CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

For Young People as
well as older folk

 

Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you
Best Sodas

Best Confectionery
Best Meals

The Green Lantern

 

NOTICE!

SPECIAL DISCOUNT
STUDENTS
SUITS & OVERCOATS

CONDONS

MEN’S STORE

TO

 

 

            
  

For People Who Care

We keep promises
and Deliver on time.

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
Phone S. 3800-3801

JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction o
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

 

Commercial & Society

Printers Diamond Merchants HALIFAX
AEE a EE
PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS HUBLEY’S
Small Musical Instru- DRY CLEANING, DYING
ments and Victor Records AND PRESSING
We invite you to join our VALET

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT
GIVEN TO DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS

Less Discount
Phene §&. 109

Tickets - $2.00.
62 Sackville Street,

 

————————

 

 
  
   
    
  
 
  
   
  
 
 

  

     
      
     
  

    
 

 
 

  
 
  
   
  
   
 
  

 
  

 

By a?

f

ARTHUR E. JUBIEN, AUDIT
i REP

 

REPORT OF STUDENTS COUNCIL

 

-_ The Council of Students,

_ Dalhousie University.

I have examined the books and
accounts of the Council of Students
for the year ending September 30th,
1928, and certify that the attached
statement is in accord therewith.

- Balance—This includes the
ift of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00)
rom the Hon. R. B. Bennett and is not

available for the current uses of the
Council but is to be expended for trophies for inter-class competition in De
bating and Basketball.

D.A.A.C.—Athletic Field Account.
There was owing to the University on
this account at the beginning of the
year the um of $255.64. To this was
added $121.86, representing monies
spent by the University during the year
for wages, lumber, etc., making a
total of $377.50. This was reduced by
$222.50, being the portion of the proceeds of football games retained by the
University, leaving a balance owing to
the University on August 31, 1928 of
$155.00.

ootball.—The expenses of the trip
to Vancouver as shown—$1770..00—
include only travelling expenses and
incidentals and not new outfits for the
players. These are in with~the other
rugby expenses and amount to $100.00
approximately. The total amount spent
on outfits and equipment for rugby
during the year including the above
was over $560.00. This seems to be too
large an item for one year.

Hockey.—These expenditures include
$100.00 for the services of a coach.

Outstanding Accounts.—An allowance of $50.00 for accounts for which
bills have not yet been rendered is advisable.

General.—The dues paid the N. F. C.
U. S. include not only the 1927-28 dues
but also a payment of $25.00 on account
of 1928-29 dues.

ARTHUR E. JUBIEN,
Auditor 1927-28.

 

The Council of Students, Dalhousie
University

Statement of Receipts and Dis
bursements for the year ending
Sept. 30, 1928.

Cash on hand, Oct. 1, 1927_...... $ 94.56

2 Ni. 0T9-.00

 

Student fees._...............
Students Council
Theatre Night proceeds..........$481..59
Miscellaneous.............-....--..--  41.-.59
Hon. R. B, Bennett..:....... -..-- 100_00
. $ 623.18
D. A. A.C.
IS ee es at bl PL 22907
DN fee ee, 49_ 80
Paseetbaue 47.25

Alumni Association for Van
Receipts

Convocation Play .................
    

FO

?
OR, MAKES FAVOURABLE
ORT. .

Biology Club

 

 

Tuesday night, Oct. 16th, the Biology
Club held its first meeting for the year.
The election of officers for season '29
was first dealt with and the following
were chosen: Hon. Pres. Dr. A. H.
MacKay, Pres. George Whiteley; VicePres. Connie Macfarlane; Sect. Elizabeth Frame, Treas. Majorie Ellis.
Electa MacLellan chairman of the
refreshment committee. James Fraser
and Charlie Allan as programme committee.

It is interesting to note that the Hon.
Pres. Dr. MacKay was the first professor of Biology at Dalhousie, and this
Deptartment celebrates its 50th anniversary this year. There are to be
real celebrations too. ,

After the assigned business the C lub
was entertained by Dr. E. G. Young
of the Bio-Chemistry Dept. who talked
about Foods and Diet. The disclosures
made were nothing short of marvellous.
The audience was held spell bound.
The interest was so intense that even
the adamantine seats of the Dental
Theatre seemed as eider-down. It 1s
sufficient to say, emphatically and with
conviction that Dr. Young knows his
calories.

After the lecture coffee and a doughnut were served in the lab. A fine
start for the most effective Club in the

University.

—$———————

GARRICK NOTES

An exceptionally attractive offering
will be presented at the Garrick theatre
during the coming weeks when the
Glossop-Harris Company will be seen
in “Grumpy”, a play that has stood the
test of entertaining millions of people,
so strong is its appeal to the human
heart. In every sense of the word 1s it
an_exceptional play and one full worthy
of attendance.

The Glossop-Harris English Repertory Company have a_ very strong
cast for this play, and it will be an
occasion that will dwell long in memory.
Horace Hodges and Widley Percival
have, in this play, given of the type

 

that is the best of the theatre. This
splendid comedy drama __ was Cyril
Maud's\greatest success In England and

America.
ST a ee fe

Sodales se i
Debating teams...-.1-.<..-.-.-...9 254..55
General expenses....-............. 48-05

$ 302.60
i ALE.
Basketball and Ground Hoc- |
ee Be yal Saat 208..28
OIE en dig negate eae 8.00.
Outstanding accounts, 1926-27 4 50

 

 

 

 

ROMOmP TRH. ts a 689_58

a ee 103.99
eee General Entertainment......._ 122.94
D. G. A. C. Delta Gamma rai
) Basketball 2S 44.70) Noten Gamma... ..---- 150.00
Convocation Play _....................- PTO ea teaia. es is __ = 907..30

$9992..06 Students Chiist.an Assoc. 50.00
Grand total........................$10086..62 $0419 80

MURRAY M. RANKIN,
Halifax, N. S., Sect.-treas.
September 30th, 1928.

Disbursements

Students Council.
Theatre Night expenses.......... $ 398.70

Council Dance......................... 1$2..09
Rink—skating sessions.......... 310..00
Dalhousie Year Book... 250..00
Salary, Secretary-treasurer.. 100.00] —
Here tl, >. anes... 2d) (.F15:.00]]
Telephone, telegraph, postage, printing and stationery 149.09

General expenses....._..........._ $23.40
Outstanding accounts 1926-27 60..00

 

$1838.28

D. A. A. C.
pre BE6GO.00) F
Rugby—Vancouver trip_...... 1770.00} ff
bidemeg Si. ws oe, 40.15
Banetbawe 53548 tae 27918

Athletic Field account............ 222.50
General, including Track and

Rifle Club .............- 187.11

$4064.94

BESSIE LOVE IN “‘SALLY
OF THE SCANDALS”

 

An intimate insight into backstage i
life and its people will be offered the} ff

movie-goers in “Sally of the Scandals"’

at the Majestic Monday, Tuesday and | ff
Wednesday. The picture, directed by |
Lynn Shcrs, is Bessie Love's first}

starring veticle for F.B.O., and it is
to be the first time in her career that she
has had the opportunity to utilize her
marked talents as a dancer.

Miss Love is surrounded by a notable cast including Allan Forrest,
Margaret Quimby, Jerry Miley, Jack
Raymond and little four year old Irene
Lambert.

LTE EE EET RIE
MacDONALD @®
FORSYTHE
‘College Mens’ Overcoats
$15. to $30.

19 Gottingen St. - Phone L 1421

 

Audited and verified, Auditor, 192”- 2

Cash on hand and in Bank,

Sept. 30th, 1928........ 666.82

10086 ..62

ARTHUR E. JUBIEN,

&.

subject to attached report.

 
     
   
   
   
  
 
 

Halifax Chronicle

AND
The
Halifax Daily Star

NEWSY!
ACCURATE!
DEPENDABLE!

  

 
    
       
          
   

 

 

YELLOW CAB
LIMITED
SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra,

 

NIGHT WATCR”’

Prepared Review

 

An intensely dramatic climax laid in a
powerful story of unusual setting makes
“The Night Watch,” the First National
picture which opened last night at the
Orpheus Theatre, a highly worth-while
screen production.

Billie Dove, never more beautiful
nor charming, has what many will
regard as the most dramatic role of her
starring career and one which called
upon all her emotional depths for a
convincing characterization.

She plays the wife of a naval officer
who is falsely implicated in a murder
which can only be cleared up by her
testimony and this testimony will cast
a shadow upon her own honour. In this
role Miss Dove displayed unusual
dramatic qualities, and at the same
time maintained a fine restraint in her
characterization.

 

—

2g
S
KR)
ae

g
<3
=

 

—_.

LAST HOME
GAME FOR|
TIGERS |

|
TOMORROW |

DON’T
MISS
rT.

|
ISTUDENTS
RESERVE
TICKETS
25c.-?t D.A.AiG.

TICKET

ON SALE AT
BOOK EX
||| CHANGE. TO
MORROW

MORNING

 

lKkefreshing

THE MED HOP

Monday, November 5th,

John Budd’s Orchestra

 

BILLIE DOVE IN ‘‘THE

 

 

 

ADOLPHE MENJOU LAUDED
IN LATEST PRODUCTION

 

This city has enjoyed ‘‘Gentlemen
of Paris,”’ ‘‘Serenade’’ and other Adolphe Menjou starring productions,
but his latest, ‘A Night of Mystery,”
is hailed as being greater than any
of his previous efforts.

“A Night of Mystery” is to be shown
at the Casino Theatre next Monday,
Tuesday and Wednesday and according
to reports is one of the best pictures
of the season.

The production is Ernest
adaption of Victorien Sardou’s stage
play, ‘‘Captain Ferreol,’’ and_ presents
Menjou as the handsome and dashing
captain of the French-African Chauss
eurs, who becomes involved in a killing | j

as a result of a love tryst with a married
woman.

CASINO

This
Thursday-Friday-Saturday

KEN MAYNARD
in
“Code of the Scarlet’’

Next Week
Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday

ADOLPHE MENJOU
“A Night of Mystery”

 

   
   
     
     
      
       

Thursday-F.iday-Saturday

JOHNNY HINES
“The Wright Idea”

““Ask the men that wears them.”

For Better Clothes |
at Low Prices |

Visit

   

154 Granville Street

“A little out of the way.
Put it pays to work.”

STUDENTS

Text Books

 

Note Books
Loose Leaf Books

Stationery, Etc.

T. C. Allen & Co.

124 & 126 Granville Street

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM
LIMITED
34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street
and Bedford

2 SHOPS
LORD NELSON HOTEL

23 SPRING GARDEN RD,

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College.

SERVICE—Always experienced
barbers at your service.

Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies at

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

nen

 

Dalhousie

Vajda’s|

! Roxy’s Clothes Shop|

 

. Underwear .90

"= Wool Socks .75

- Shoes 5.00

| os Braces 75

| - Garters .50
1H) Making a Total of $68.15 A :

| | a EATO N

 

  

October 26th, 1928

$$ a

ORPHEUS

NEXT WEEK-Mon-Tue-Wed.

BILLIE DOVE

     
          

THIS WEEK-Thu-Fri-Sat.

 
  
    

‘‘The Danger Patrol’’

 
 
   
    
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
   
     
   

with in
WILLIAM RUSSELL Re ; ot
ik The Night Watch

    
 

Special added attraction

‘‘King’s of the Ring’’

   

A powerful, dramatic Billy Dove
picture

GARRICK

REPERTORY THEATRE
ALL NEXT WEEK
The Glossop- Harris Co.

Present

“GRUMPY”

Cyril Maud's Greatest Stage Success

    
  
  
 
   

 

    
     
         

Majestic
Mon, Tues. and Wed.
‘*The First Kiss’”’

wit
Gary Cooper and Fay Wra

  

  

To-Day and Sat.
“SALLY OF THE
SCANDALS”
with
‘““BESSIE LOVE”’

“Chorus Girls Prancing &
Smiling’’

  
    
  
      
     
     
   
 
  
         
  
      
 
      

 
   
 

~

Now Playing

‘‘The Silver Cord”’

A Truly Outstanding Play

  

 

      
   
   
     
    
       
  

Shortly
“Chere Go Che Hhips’

Twelve New

Sagas of the Sea
By
Archibald MacMechan

  
 

 

 

 

Specialists in College
Apparel

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

Watch our windows for specials

10% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS

weekly

 

Ee CAPITOL
HATS CLEANED and BLOCKED
SHOES REPAIRED
|
|

TH

a

   
     
 

Special SERVICE Given to Students

We call for and celiver

   
 
  

THE CAPITOL—44-46 Sackville St. - Phone Sac. 8557

 

WELL DRESSED

at a minimum cost !
(Your complete Fall outfit need only cost you $68.15,

Every Item bears the well known label

&éatonia

| Here is a complete list of each
item and what it costs—get your
Fall outfit now!

 

 

6éaionia Hat $5.00
S Shirt 2.50

- Tie 1.00

| . Suit 25.00
| “ Topcoat 25.00
Gloves 1.50"

“ Handk’ef .25

 

 

o

‘LIMITED

a
as

 

 

ee — ae

Take He kX

Gymnasium

None Bette

 

  

 
