 

  
   
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

ars
*
’

iar

ie.

b=
b

a. *
" _ *

( labor.

      

  

CIRCULATION
|| OF ANY COLLEGE
PAPER IN THE
MARITIMES |

 
   
   
 
    
 

   

VOL. LXI.

; ae

 

 

 

DR. JOHN S. STEWART

SETTING UP THE
LEAGUE

_ Ames Second Lecture

 

    
 

ac

is subject was the “Setting up. an
Testing of the

Machinery of the League”.

Although Germany signed the peace

treaty on June 28, 1919, it was not rat
ified by a sufficient number of states

to bring it into force until six months

ater, so that the official birthday of the
League of Nations is fixed as January
10, 1920. One of the first problems
ce .

‘confronting the League was that of

dmproving the universal standard of
labo The International Labor Office
-was fostered by the League and had

its birth in Chicago just eight days

after the birth of the League itself.

- The Council, consisting of eight members, with the President of the French
Senate, M. Bourgeois, occupying the
chair, first met in Paris, and in July
1920 at San Sebastian in Spain. Two
important decisions resulted, namely
(1) that the League was sufficiently
organized to risk calling the states
together for an Assembly, and (2) that
the Secretariat (recruited in London)
‘should -be moved to Geneva. Since
then the Secretariat has met every year
on the first Monday in September.
“One of the most gratifying features,
of the League,”’ said Sir Herbert, ‘‘is
the surprising growth of confidence
which characterizes each successive
meeting, both of the Assembly and of
the Council.’ The speaker outlined
a few of the important problems which
are constantly being considered by the
latter body.
The Secretariat is subdivided into
nine offices; political, financial and
economical, transportation, department
for mandates, department to guard
rights of minorities, public health,
department for considering conditions

s .

_ of disarmament, social service questions,

and international co-operation. Voluntary advisory committees composed
of experts on all matters were an_ invaluable asset in the successful functioning of the League machine.

Geneva is constantly harboring some
division of the League ‘and ‘ties of understanding are being rapidly strengthened.” ‘Geneva is a sort of clearing
house for international problems.”

The remainder of the lecture was
spent in explaining a series of lantern
slides, portraying different views of
the League building (both external and
internal), various bodies in session
and individual members of particular
interest. Some of the outstanding figures included were: President Wilson,
General Smuts, M. Bourgeois, M.
Briand, Sir Erie Drummond, Lord
Robert Cecil, Senator Dandurand and
Lord Balfour. The slides also included
different groups of the Council and
Assembly, representative groups from
the different countries in the League,
and important buildings such as the
Peace Palace at La Hague, the Assembly
building and that of the International
Labor office at Chicago.

In the afternoon Sir Herbert spoke
again (by special request) on a subject
r Fececial significance to the students—

_ “Canada and the League of Nations.”

e

 

__. Tuesday morning, Oct. 30, Sir Herbert
- delivered the second of a series of four
lectures on the origin, growth and
- achievements of the League of Nations.
r |and in a few days a deputation was sent |.

 

eee ee

‘EF HAVE

OUR MEDICAL UNIT| Dal Band

AND ITS HISTORY

By E. M- H.

Before a Canadfan soldier had suffered
a wound in battle the Medical Faculty
of Dalhousie University had volunteered its services to the Department of
Militia. When it became known that
Canada would send to France a large
expeditionary force some members of
the staff of the Medical School interested themselves in the formation of a
Dalhousie Medical Unit for overseas
service. Asa result of their enthusiasm
an offer to provide the medical staff of a
Casualty Clearing Station was shortly
made to the Dominion Government.
The Government however was not in a
position to accept the offer. A _ stationary Hospital had not yet been included on the line of communication
units asked for. Dalhousie was assured
merely that in case such a unit were
needed in the future her offer should
be kept in mind. This was in the late
fall of 1914.

In the spring of 1915 a letter was
sent to Major General Hughes reminding him that the offer of Dalhousie held
good. General Hughes replied that
there was still no opening for the ser= so generously placed at his disiE August of the same year Major
E. V. Hogan whose Irish blood would
not allow him to remain content so far
from action went to consult the matter
with Major G. M. Campbell A M C.,
and Dr. John Stewart.
eager to send a unit without further

 
 
    
   
  
  

delay. -Characteristically Dr. Stewart |

added, ‘and I want to go myself.’
Others lent their aid to the endeavour

to Ottawa to interview Sir Robert
Borden. The offer of the University
was renewed and was extended to include
the staff necessary for a 400 bed Stationary Hospital. This offer was favorably received. It was submitted to the
War Office and before the end of
September 1915 Dalhousie was _ given
authority to organize a Medical Unit.
The old Medical College building was
immediately tendered by the University
to be used as quarters for the Unit,
and shortly there began its transformation into barracks and orderly room.

ENLISTMENT BEGAN

Before the end of October enlistment
had commenced. There was almost a
struggle for the honor of acceptance.
Twelve medical officers and twentyseven nursing sisters were required.
Thirty medical men and eighty nurses
voluntared. The number needed for
all ranks was about one hundred and
twenty-five. Very many more would
have counted it a priviledge to enrol.
Of those who were finally chosen. Ten
officers were graduates of Dalhousie
and three other officers were members
of the Medical staff. Fourteen of the
rank and file were students in attendance at the University and nine others
were former students. The majority
of the nurses were from the Victoria
General or the St. Joseph's hospitals.

On November 9th, 1915 the Unit was
organized. The ‘beloved physician’ Dr.
John Stewart had been appointed
Officer Commanding. Training now
proceeded so vigorously that at the end
of four weeks the Dalhousie unit was
ready to embark. There were some
slight delays but on December Slst,
1915 departure was taken for St. John,
N. B. and on January ist, 1916 the

“Mitagama’”’ bore our doctors eastward.
Nine days later the Dalhousians

landed in Plymouth and on the same
evening they reached Shorncliffe. On
February 15th the Unit took over the
administration of Shorncliffe Military
Hospital and not long afterwards was
given charge of the Helena Hospital
or officers.

SAILED FOR FRANCE

But France was needing men. The
ability of Dr. Stewart and the great
operative skill of Major Hogan were to
be called into service even more arduous. On June 18th 1916, the contingent of the Black and Gold crossed
the Channel and landed at La Havre.
Here it was given charge of a British
base hospital and it subsequently
established near the city another hospital of five hundred beds.

Nearer to the greatest need! On
April 1917 our Unit was transferred to
St. Omer, where it established a larger
tent hospital. Large parties of German

risoners-of-war were detailed to assist
in unloading equipment.

(Continued on Page 3)

 

Both werel

—— See

    

eS

P

Wins Praise

Dalhousie’s latest acquisition is a
Band—and ‘it deserves the capital “B”
This particular band evolved from
nowhere over night, and great credit
is due Sina Singer in whose mind the
idea originated and who selected and
trained the players. The band made
its debut at Acadia in the first game
between that university and Dal.
Their second appearance was on the
home campus when the Tigers played
the Acadians (Oct. 30) in a return
game. The significant fact is that
Dalhousie won both of these games
handily! ‘Music hath charms’—-and
who knows but what it charmed the
opposing squads?

Music has always ‘played’ a leading
part in the great battles of history and
the Dal band has done its bit right
royally in the famous rugby battles
enacted this fall. The primary object
of this band (a very worthy object) was
not the entertainment of the spectators
but the stimulation of the pugnacity
instinct among the players. If anyone
doubts the psychological efficacy of
music let him interview the team!

 

These are they who

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 9th,

SS = eS —

SSS

a i eam

     
 

rt
ae

  

(1111

a eT a

ote

¢,

DIAMOND
JUBILEE OF

THE OLDEST

COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

 

    

—

AID

Acknowledgement

The Gazette acknowledges the gift
of a bound volume of Gazettes from
1885 to 1888 received from Hector
MaclInnes, K. C.

The readers are duly informed and
may verily believe that Mr. MacInnes
will have something very interesting to
say in the Gazette in an early issue.

ANNOUNCEMENT

The Editor requests that all letters
to the Editor be handed to him personally or else mailed to him, care of Law
School, Forrest Building, Halifax, Canada. This will insure prompt and more
satisfactory consideration. Under no
circumstances whatever are either letters
or articles to be left with the printer
by any persons other than those instructed to do so, by the Editor.

GAZETTE AWARDS

Owing to the pressure of work the
Jury of Award have not found ft convenient to hold their meeting, but they
assure us that the winning contributions
will be decided by next week, when they
will be printed.

went forth from this

Gniversity and gabe their lives that
we might lite in freedom.

Arundell, a: D'Auvergne H.
Bennett, Carl Norwood
Billman, Walter Melville
Blois, Harry Morris
Cameron, William James
Campbell, George Henderson
Carson, John Burgess Calkin
Cavanagh, Harry

Chipman, Nathan Lewis
Chisholm, Edward Alexander
Chisholm, George Philip
Churchill, Clair

Clayton, Edward Reginald
Craig, Alexander Fraser
Cunningham, George Allan
Cutler, John Geoffrey
Dawson, Charles Howard
Dick, Stephen John

Dickey, Horace Arthur
Doane, William Edward Everett
Evans, Cyril Ansell

Foster, William Gore

Fraser, Raymond Stewart
Godfrey, Alexander Taylor
Grierson, Vernon Arthur
Hyde, Cyril

Jardine, David

Kirk, Oscar Howe

Layton, Francis Paul Hamilton
Livingstone, Charles Donald
Livingstone, David
Lockerby, John Earle
MacAloney, Ralph Gordon
Macaskill, William Ross

GROUND HOCKEY

DAL vs ACADIA

Dal girls held the Acadians to a no
score game when they journeved to
Acadia Saturday, November 3rd. The
day which “just couldn’t have been
better" turned out to be a rainy one.

Acadia gave Dal a hard fight, but
Dal played well and in spite of several
“almost goals’’ the game ended with no
score for either team. Dal girls all
played equally well and no one person
might be termed star of the game.
Their next game will be at Windsor,
November 10th, when they will play
Edgehill. How about supporting the
Dal girls?

Dal lined-up against Acadia:

Forwards: Lillian Barnstead (Captain), Margaret MacDonald, Margaret
White, Ann Milne (Manager), Ella
Desbrisay. Half-backs: Florence Hewat, Esther Elliot, Mary Chirgwin.
Full-backs—Ruth Macaulay, Lilion Lane
Goal: Olive Field. Subs: Helen Hamilton, Ella Hennigar.

Dal vs H. L. C.

Dal Ground Hockeyists won two
victories over the Halifax Ladies’
College girls last week the scores being
2—0 and 1—0.

 

a

AfcCleave, Harry Austin _
McCuish, Kenneth Angus
McCurdy, Edward Grant
MacDonald, Alexander James
McDonald, Charles Hugh
McDonald, Robert
Maclver, Arthur P.
Mackenzie, Earl Eaton
Maclean, Neil Archibald
McLean, Thomas Gordon
McLean, Thomas Malcolm
McLean, Walter Leonard
MacLeod, Colin Arthur
McQueen, John Park
Maxwell, George Herbert
Murray, Norman Fred
Murray, Norman Grant
Pickup, Walter Willett
Pineo, Henry Hoyt
Ralston, Ivan Steele
Roche, Charles Joseph
Ross, Jack Shearer
Seaman, Alexander Macfarlane
Shreve, Charles Dayrell
Smith, Harold Archibald
Soule, Ivan Edgar

Stairs, Gavin Lang

Stairs, George William
Stairs, Graham

Stairs, John Cuthbert
Swanson, John King
Sylvester, George McDonald
Ward, Norman Claude

~

 

BIOLOGY CLUB

On Wednesday evening the Biology
Club held its second meeting for the
year. The new President, George
Whiteley graced the chair and delivered his inaugural address.

The speaker of the evening was
Professor Gowanloch. The subject of
the address was: ‘‘The Unicorn and the
Childhood of Biology’. Because the
Literary Society of Dalhousie had
chosen to call itself ‘The Unicorn’’ all
its members had been invited to the
meeting. Of the address itself, as
we despise superlatives, we shall say
merely that it was unusual: unusual
in subject; unusual in interest; unusual
in the amazing diversity of sources from
which it culled its references.

_ At the close of the lecture speculation
in Biology gave way to demonstration
in Physiology, to wit—refreshments
were served.

Note:—The Gazette felt that there
were many students not of the Biology
Club who would enjoy Professor Gowanloch’s address, so it somewhat abruptly
asked him for the manuscript. It is
printed elsewhere in this issue. True
it is that every address loses something
by being printed. The speech without
the speaker is bare. But for those
unfortunate and unenlightened individuals who do not take Biology this is
the best we could do. The address is
decidedly out of the ordinary. Read it,
you will enjoy it.

°

th of Glory-and the Price

By J. S. ROPER

The Pa

On August 4th, 1914 Britain declared
War on Germany; so did Dalhousie
University. Immediately her students
and graduates enrolled for active service, and within a month many of them
had left Halifax for Valcartier to join
the then recruiting first contingent.

The Dalhousie Canadian Officers
Training Corps was immediately organized under Colonel (then Major)
W. E. Thompson and training commenced in the old South End Skating
Rink on Fenwick Street. Here Nervy
Nat Graham, a typical R. C. R. Drill
Sergeant put doctors, lawyers, merchants, professors and others of that
like through their paces. The ranks
swelled to over 600 and from time to
time were depleted by drafts to the
rapidly increasing Nova Scotia Units.
More than half of that gallant corps
saw service in the firing line. From
1915-1918 it trained many receuits
for Canadian Battalions. It is to be
regretted that this C.O.T.C. so well
started in the piping days of 1914 has
entirely disappeared from our college
life. With its history and_ tradition
it should have been carried on.

The Dalhousie Medical Unit was
then formed by Colonel John Stewart,
C.B.E. now Dean of the Medical
School. The old Medical Building

on College Street was filled with khaki
clothed Dalhousians. The old Campus,
the scene of many a football game was
used for P. T. and Squad drill. This
Unit achieved an enviable reputation
in France as No. 7 Stationary Hospital
and its officers and men brought. .andying fame to the Medical Faculty of
this University. It did mot return to
Canada until April 23rd., 1919 when
it arrived in Halifax on the trasnport
“Beltic’’. It was demobilized in the
Halifax Armouries. It still holds its
re-unions which are well attended and
are a source of comradeship to those
who served in the ranks of the Unit.

Dathousians enlisted in every Nova
Scotia Unit, the 17th, 25th, R. C. R.,
40th, 85th, 106th, 112th, 185th, 219th,
246th, C. M. R. the Engineers, Artillery and what-not. Many of these
Battalions are now only names, but
what they did in the Great War can
never be forgotten. Dalhousians were
also in practically .every Canadian
Unit. They plowed the Seven Seas
in the Navy and explored the Heavens
in the Air Force. They were in Egypt,
Mesopotamia, the Dardanelles, Arabia,
France, England and wherever there
were wars or rumours of war. One of
our Rhodes Scholars saw service in
Serbia with the Serbian Army. ‘Their
graves are scattered far and wide, by
mount and stream and sea”’.

The students who roamed our College
Halls in those days were filled with
excitement. They talked and thought
only of the War. Study of the finer
arts was fotgotten and the arts of War
were pursued. Recruiting meetings
were held in the class-rooms and the
pages of the Gazette were filled with
exhortions to Professors and Students
to join his Majesty’s Forces. Some
of our student writers of that day with
Bolshevic tendencies tried to belittle
Britain's part in the War. These were
soon silenced by the over-whelming
patriotism of the great majority. All
who were fit, both men and women did
their part. The Dalhousie tradition
was kept up. Other generations Had
enlisted for the defence of their Country
in older wars; we could not be behind
them in patriotism and courage. By
1917 the College was denuded of ail
able-bodied students. Those who had
to remain behind did their duty by taking
part in the various philanthropic war
activities in the city of Halifax for the
comfort and help of those in the line.
Some of our senior professors wrote
long and interesting letters to those
who were keeping the enemy at bay.
These letters are still treasured by the

fortunate ones who received them.
1914—1918 was the scene of the
bloodiest war in history—called a

war to end war. College students and
graduates turned from their peaceful
avocations to learn the use of the most
death destroying missles war has vet
produced. The puny Tenderfoot, by
toil and training became a hardy warrior.
He exchanged his comfortable home for
the murky trenches of the fighting
area. For four and a half years our
gallant Canadians with their allies
kept back the enemy hordes, and then
came the Armistice -on November
llth, 1928. Now there was silence
where there had been no silence.

(Continued on Page 3)

+9

 

| Armistice Speaker

fs
=
}
}

 

CAPT. HUGH BELL, M. C.

 

Poppiesin Flanders

“In Flanders Fields the Poppies Blow’’
BY ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN

In Canada, poppies are exotic. They
are sown and cultivated in garden.
In Europe, they are glorious weeds,
self sown, springing up everywhere,
without the gardener's hand. In the
year the King was crowned, one traveller took notice of them as he wandered
from land to land. They were beside
his path through England and Normandy: they blossomed in the cloisters
of Rome.

Poppies have a place in literature.
The crimson petals among the yellow

wheat have been marked by many a
poet for their béauty. The lovely
blush of Ruth is compared to that
delight of the eye. Burns resembles

the fall of the blossoms to the swift
passing of pleasure. And so it is.
But there was another similitude to
come. While the stubborn Canadian
line was holding back the grey-coated
herdes in April, 1915, a Canadian
soldier who was also a poet was-inspired
to set forth measures which haye made
poppies deathless in the memory of
this people. i

Poppies have the bright hue of
heart’s blood. Men fell swiftly like
poppy petals, in the thin ranks of

Canada, and the ground was red with
their blood. Henceforth, poppies have
for all Canadians bitter-sweet memories,

which are all enshrined in -McCrae's
immortal poem. For .us poppies -‘mean
war, death, heroic sacrifice of self.

Once they were the ‘symbol of oblivion,
of dumb forgetfulness: now they stand
for ever living remembrance. ‘Woe tod
us if we forget that we shave passed
through a Red Sea of agony, to this

ease and freedom. Our fighting” men
traversed Seven Hills of torment. 6f
body and soul that we might ‘stand
erect without cringing: to ‘a foreign
overlord. Woe'to us if we forget! :

Four years of endless ‘torment ‘of

body and soul! The gains of four vears
swept away in four days! The enemy
smashing through the~ Allied Line,
waiting, relorming, then smashing through again! Gérmafi submarines sinking vessels off New York! Nature
making herself lovely beyond the usual
beauty of spring and sunimer as if to
mock the Agony of Mah! Then came
news which seemed too good to be true.
So many lies had been told. Hope had
been so often deferred that mankind
was sick at heart, and refused to build
upon the favorable reports. Could
the war ever end?

And then—at the’ eleventh ‘hour, of
the eleventh day, of the eleventh
month, the end came. ‘Cease fire!’’
was sounded all along the weary lines
of combatants. The Enemy had asked
for a cessation of war. All terms of
peace could be arranged. It seemed too
good to be true; but it was true. All
the bells of Halifax rang for joy. Early
in that blessed day, before the light was
clear, the stars seemed to sing for joy

in the firmament. Peace; love, joy
came back to the world again. It
was Armistice Day, 1918.
—_
NOTICE—The Editors -wish to

inform contributors that owing to the
special articles of this week, all the
letters received could not be printed,

 
 

") Se Te
ie ae if ae) = or

 

   

aks busts! (Founded 1869)

re Subscription’ Rate: $1.00 per year

Phone L 2291

 

Greater Love Hath No Man

“Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for

St

a

eee ee)

— DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ee

 

|

To the Editor of the Gazette,

A middle course of considered criticism
together with the gift of praise to those
(and there were many on that programme) who deserved praise, would,
it seems to me, have better fulfilled the
ideals of this university world in which
we live.

.

I am, Sir;

Professors Criticise

“Tattler’s” Criticism

 

The Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,

or to undeservedly wound the feelings
of fellow students. Nevertheless such
lack of restraint and of the judicial
attitude prejudices the welfare of the
Gazette. the Glee Club and indirectly
of all of us at Dalhousie. May I take
this opportunity to compliment the
producers and cast of the last Glee
Club entertainment, including those of
“Gold” on its excellence as an amateur

Beyond

I have a ship far out to sea
Where the blue of the sky begins,
Blue in the sky—Blue in the sea
Colors my heart and sings within.

 

Midst the kingdom of sea and blue.
Tempest and gold come drive me on,
Out distance the clouds up the shore,
To reach the mist—the blue unknown—
To lose myself forever more.
Hearken with me this song to go.
Why do you always hold me so?
If my ship be a shattered hulk,
If her canvas be gild not gold,
‘ll flee the dragons—see the night—

Ea

November 9th, 1928

 

  
   

 
 

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

Professor of History IV.: ‘‘Tallyrand

a Pea ms Editor. | iia) The song is tearful and pleads to go. listory |
as AON MR Ree | BEN GUSS Dear Sir,—With' reference to the} Dear Sir:—I have had the privilege] ._ Why do you always cling to me so?| had a most distinguished career at
i peiee te Editor Sport Editor dramatic criticism’ of the last Glee|of reading the letter to you from Prof-| Now come with me and sail away. college, All sorts of scandalous stories
Bt eh 0. HEBB | | PAUL DOYLE Club performance which criticism was|essor James Nelson Gowanloch, con- ‘To live in my Kingdon of Blue, were told about him’’. We have some
ee say hat nS _ News Editor contributed by “Tattler” I feel very | cerning the criticism by ‘‘Tattler” of the | Where only ships with golden sails students like him at Dal.
Bee a is ERNEST M. HOWSE : strongly that this was both an ungentle} presentation of the play “Gold”, and Dare venture to furrow through. etme 4
: Cig gis: on , . a ie and unhelpful contribution to those}assure you that I endorse the views The song is tearful and pleads to go. Stewart Allen is out of the hospital
8 ess <4 Assistant Business Manager fine efforts that the Glee Club are] expressed by Prof. Gowanloch. As al,.. Why do you always cling to me so? | and has returned home. He will be
Beer dae ol R. A. DONAHOE putting forth. Free speech is an| former editor of the Gazette I realize Yonger are dragons fierce and wild. back with us after Thanksgiving.
Fiat” essential principle’-of college papers|the difficulties of your position and Who hate the gild; who love the gold; eT ms
By ee : Reporters yet such free speech must, I feel, be] regret with you that it is not always Despise the man, embrace the child. In a Physics 6 lecture recently the
CS Tye wee GEORGE WHITELEY tempered ever with the spirit of con-| possible to keep its columns free from Come sail with me, I am not bold. Professor was talking of thedenvation
iE pat hn J. M. BOVYER structive and upward development. | exaggeration. I am confident that the The song is tearful and pleads to go. | of the quantity of electricity, (Q) by the
ly at sale Eds i) elon Of such spirit there ismone in the article] completely destructive character of] ,, Why are you always frightened so?| multiplication of the amperage (1)
eee Oe: Coif Business , Manager discussed. The contention of “Tattler” |‘Tattler’s” criticism was due rather|!'!! pray for sails that golden are with the time (T). i
meres esr td S. W. ARCHIBALD that the Gazette account was excess-|to enthusiasm for the role of critic| ,,, With a vessel of golden hur. After writing the equation Q =
mae 5 Rosebank Ave. ively flattering is quite, I believe, true.| than to any desire to be uncharitable Pll dare to seek the sea-edge far 1 T on the board, he scratched his

head, then turning around to the
class he slyly remarked “‘Now I don't
want you to think that this has anything to do with sex appeal.

The historic Pine Hill football game
between the Old Building and the
Annex will take place at the Studley
grounds on Thanksgiving Monday mornings

i ° + re ¢3'. . *
his friend. Yours Sincerely, production, and to suggest that the],, To sulk my grief to man untold. eT
J) 2) . justifiable criticism of the players in I'll couch my chip in+mourning black, Highly Insulted—Toronto, Oct. 28,
Sunday morning at 10.30 the students and members of the James Nelson Gowanloch |that play is that they did not speak " A shroud to hide the sun, 1928. Special to the Gazette—Miss
— sufficiently loud. [ll sail away and ne'er look back, Phyllis Winchester and Miss Alice

faculty will meet in the Studley gymnasium to commemorate in
solemn service the glorious sacrifice made by. Dalhousians in the

world’s greatest disaster—-barely a decade past.

Never before

were Dalhousians ealled upon for such a sacrifice and never again
will any call be responded to more magnanimously. Their’s the
_ undying glory of lighting to torch whose flame can ne'er be quenched;
ours the duty of bearing that torch lest the flame should ever smould
er!

We cannot hope to transcend their spirit but our loyalty to our

alma mater must surely make us feel the urge to emulate it!
Following the opening hymn and the reading of the Scripture,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 
  
 

How to Get an Education Everrat College

So runs the heading of an article in
Oct. Harpers, written by Bernard DeVeto a Harvard graduate and an ex-Prof.
of Northwestern Univ. The article,
besides tossing a few high explosives

 

Yours very truly,

Horace E. Read.

 

get me a B.A.”” He goes to University,
gets his degree by the required fifty
per cent, margin and goes forth into
the world, a new man. His thoughts
then on meeting another graduate
are something like this: ‘‘Hmph!

 

 

 

Until my day is done.
The song is tearful and pleads to go.
Why do you always cling to me so?

« —N. W.
—————

SKS OF THE
LEAGUE

TA

 

 

     
 
    
   
     
   

 

—$—— — eee —eeee—————————————————————————— nC  — :
Sic

Atherton are highly insulted that their
whereabouts have not as yet been
made known to the student body as a
whole. They wish to inform the
“Gazetteers” that they are both studying at the University of Toronto, Miss
Winchester being enrolled as a student
specializing in Ancient and Oriental
History and Miss Atherton as an M.A.
student in English.—From D.O.K.
——$—$—$

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

Fi os 2 > ; into the general academic enclosure, con- This man has a B.A., so have J. ere a
Capt. Hugh Bell will deliver the commemoration address. The eas that isapplicableto the partic-| The mysteryofhis knowledgeis dis-] FINAL LECTURE BY SIR HERB- SP ORT COMMENT
Last Post will be sounded after the concluding hymn and two min-|ular student. Mr.,DeVoto begins byde-| pelled. I guesshefrittered away his ERT AMES
utes silence will be observed at eleven o'clock. et ee ee a Sitea pee ts Bee al can't hear hie oye The final lecture of Sir Herbert Am Tomer Mente Sie satus
¥ ° ¥ 4 $s "¢ Ter. > a , . terperct 2 esl. <7, it = ick
Lest We Forget—two minutes are consecrated each year for | v2 Te Ueto ening no te. “Thig} And he recalls a few quotations, | was delivered on the Chem. Theatre and the University of New Brunswick
Og ; , ? wre get the best education possible. ‘This als | quotations, | was delivered on the Chem. [heatre on | football fifteens meet in the final game
mute remembrance of those who voluntarily relinquished friends, qualification,”’ he says, ‘‘at once ex- speaks polysyllabically, refers'to his] Wednesday afternoon As evidence of} for the championship of the Western
family, country, even life itself{—that we might continue in joy and] excludes 99% of all college undergrad- dear alma mater, oc bluffs his way|the interest his previous lectures had] section of the intercollegiate league.
freedom. Is this sacrifice, than which there is none greater, not]ates’. That aoe pices Segara. Bee or tone i Hetcuniey ta fee ie sapere ae Sere reat [eet Week eee Meuaties pled “up a
. i re liv e : college not as a trade school, in whic reese rs ts Saar opiate Se se € subject | 12—0 s the F ict eworthy of two minutes memory? Altho we live our four score years | he will learn a profession; this is done at look his fellows square between the] of the lecture was “The Special Tasks seeeentatiocs and will ae ae lead
and ten, and though we commemorate each passing anniversary | a graduate school; jbut as an institution} YES. Is it worth while? Undoubt-|}and Achievements of the League."’| into tomorrow's battle. The odds natof the Armistice, even then our service as compared with their’s will] that will fit him for companionship with 28h , : These achievements Sir Herbert showed | yrally favor Mt. A. to win and they will
< be as a mere drop in the ocean’s bosom. If we would keep the faith educated men. sa ie oe , what are you going to do about bs eae ae ee a eee an probably meet St. F. X. for the cham. . ope * e regart s education as e process ‘ : S ) . on oO CIT Ory in W uch ne io yshi so ti e xt W kk.
bak pid try 5 grasp ees uF their sacrifice in our behalf, and bey ide ontia katlet ie given discisling ge League tried to aid was an exceedingly Pp The ee es ari. AY es Myra Ve
with this realization as a basis for our gratitude, forever enshrine| and discrimination, orientation in_ the EXTR ACTION difficult task. The races in Eueope|one in every place but Fredericton
| bac immortal example in our hearts and instil its spirit in our, modern world and understanding of it.” S vee a eae In eee ge08-/ Tt is a good many years since U. N. B.
aily activities. The author’s first, requisite in obtain- raphicat locations. they are  tnter-| have he ig ;
Their watchword was loyalty and chivalry: may ours be faith ing this education is "6 abandon the mingled im the most intricate fashion. ee ae hee ae Mealy eat
d Rate Picens ily eniedthed ¥: y ae fetish of the degree, For the degree is} On the evening of Thursday, the Ist, Many of them are uncertain even of! out an aggregation that can compare
and amity. ey have Dequeathed to us a standard of doing and the trademark of a protected industry,|the Dental Society met in the Munro | origin. An ethological map which SIT | with the sk tn the Maritimes. This
daring which none have surpassed. Shall we merit their trust or]and like all trademarks it denotes a}room at what proved to be a most Herbert displayed showed 2/7 different} season the New Brunswick collegians
shall the ephemeral pleasure of this secular existence eat its way ee product. ’ ets, oa Enioseble Be ening: a function took acter a a Mihi pate ve don’t seem to be taking their rugby
: aéy Bur iinermost being an ae ei? if you observe a mian is a Bachelor of}the form of a smoker, arrangements | tenations of their culture, language anc | so seriously. In previous years football
N ant Sn the f Le pe oe Rr our stamina? Shall . WE! Arts, or of Science, or Philosophy you | being carried out by Laurie Buffett and faith. The aim of the League was to players at U. N. E iran of pea ‘6
4 or SE Wat Pepe te bree OF VEDEO en ranks Or shall we limp} can risk certain judgements about him} Doug Hill. The special feature was] tedistribute states, so that they would] the student body. The students lived
along as weaklings and snivelling cowards: We have not been|at once. It is safe to say that a B. A.J an oratorical contest, a speaker being be so far as possible homogeneous. | for football. If their team was_schedsummoned to make the supreme sacrifice but itis our sacred duty to | k10ws no science, a B.S. c., no classics | elected by each of the four professional| But this was difficult. There were| yleq to play a game the chief topic of
perpetuate the memory Bf those whalweent oi Tey pa Bachelor of Philosophy no science, | years to represent their respective ae aoe one quarter iret scatter- | conversation around the campus would
. 7 ino classics but only’something innocuous | classes. Those taking part were: O. W.| €¢ Outside Germany. ere were two football ; if r ras as : =). MAB in between them, Say social ethics or| Clough of the first year, G. K. MacIn-| and three-quarter Hungarians outside ee id Se
r ——— English literature. 4 tosh of the second year, R. Harrington Hungary and so with other races.| +p. injury teat be felt tae the
| “s : an : He continues by ‘going over the twen- | of the third year, and D. J. Hill of the Nevertheless “the “League has” accom=] dents than by the ‘paver hin self
| : 5. CORNER tv classes required.for a B. A. degree.| fourth year. Four of the faculty mem- plished much. aid wear huisever eat Men thaniniie
eh | x : | The student took a year of mathem| bers, Dr. Thompson, Dr. Oxner, Dr. A principle which has been generally] scems to be on the decline. When
. alsa atics but did not learn enough math- Bagnall, and Dr. Ritchie acted as | recognized since the Congress of Vienna} wt A. and U. N. B played off last fall
A BLUEBIRD IN A ROSE CRAB- RAIN purchase of a life insurance. policy. that of the Right of Intervention. students journeve
APPLE TREE he has studied economics and chem-| Mr. Clough spoke very informatively The large Powers have a right to see} NB. capieal cat Tuulves do a
Mihere ides the. warn tain come feomn ey ss well, because they were in the|of Dental Art in early times, Mr. re any weak peoples are not deprived |onq the players wire the only ones to
Of flowers all abloom It comes from the ‘Land of the Sun,” requirements, but he couldn't dis- MacIntosh, as secretary of the Stud- of their religious liberty or their cultural Ake the trip.
She made a magic rune And brings us warm, true greetings epee Saas eae Pe laws|ents’ Council ‘haa at ee ee a eee cage - ete. The same problem of keeping the
And sang it to a tune. From. many an unknown one. oO oyle and Malthus, and has no}pointers on the functioning of that NSEC ASSERT ey (Ue Rae (CO €r- | students interested i > > xi
ee conception of the, place of either in]|organization. Mr. Harrington spoke Versailles. ‘‘Protection of Minorites,” Beeil tie Waite. oo RO ee
Candles in the dark Where does the cole rain come from? | &COnom'cs OF chemistry in modern life.| of the standing of the Dentist in the | said Sir Herbert, ‘“‘is now a matter of wants 2 winning team ne mai wes
; Night behind a spark Bran, the!"Laad of Frost and Snow.” How does that. apply to the Dal-| community, while Mr. Hill, taking ad- international concern”. Already the} everyone cheers and praises the hes
A bluebird in a rose crabapple It whi i i illi housian? Does he. after graduation,| vantage of the viewpoint of a senior| League had fashioned nine treaties on Dash bee GEM Ge ike eee Mach EEE
u pp t whispers things quite chilling Par ee : : \ te ‘ the manager and the players but if the
tree. But still that I like to know. have only a scroll, of imitation parch-|student, introduced some interesting Sie En oot, oe it WAS ‘FERPON-| senior fifteen ahanld lose ahere ie. on
ment printed in. inpermanent ink|sidelights on what was to be gained |stble for the rights of minorities in an] egy: nt of ioneicis Las
Day went, night came, Oh dear little musical raindrops, which will serve to introduce him to|from the Dental course from both} area including thirty million people and of which ie of a area opene ae
Loveliness astir, How I love the stories you tell aeeoeye employers as a certified | curricular and social standpoints. aes Pie abe oat Pee a : ;
ight went, day came— As you patter away on my wi productf : Ch EES 19 2 B00! Geet OF msapp~ |i f the biggest f :
All | eliness to h r A boon i Se soy) Mr. DeVoto is strong on science for} At the close of the four addresses |rehension as to what this League can cae - crt Digee iopthae ao
ov’ o her. nd communicate with my soul. rong ice | | gat on 8 of the week was the victory of St. F. X
So two’ reasons; The dominant thinking | the members of the faculty retired to do for minorities. Petitions had come over Nova Car tia. Tech ; Radon
She made a magic rune —Wynnona. today is scientific: The world has been | !consider the relative merits of the} to the League from Canada and other | jac¢ Sagatiay., The X ae a
And sang it to a tune created by science and is governed by | presentations. On conclusion .of the places where the League could not panties to oa 7 t th "4 Fagie eee ee
Gf finwers ail ablodm. it. His ‘preferen@e is for “physics, | deliberations, Dr. Thompson, as spokes- | !mterfere. Only those minorities which th s seore "Te a oe ee oes ee ae
chemistry and zoology; on the ground | man, complimented each of the young ‘a eraued to allow the League to les eae aoe haste er ee oe
She sang in the dark that they deal directly with basic prop-| Aristotles and announced that Mr. | Nancie their problems could ask it] [pajitay sakes ee Be eee
Vy Of night behind a spark ETERNITY erties of matter and with basic proper-| Hill had been adjudged the premier to come in and adjust their difficulties. dabigs crowd away frog. thei line.
Of blucbirds in 4 cose crabapple ties of life—with the reality of the | speaker. Mr. Dave MacLean as chair- Che work of the League which he had] ube had seven nations on its bank all
: New tbs — to et eevee. Towards philosophy} man, presented Mr. Hill with a cigar oe to date might be termed Sir | squabbling over their rights. The Lea(heen fipeoneinosiemnmenteoee erhaps—forgetfulness, and psychology he is bitter. He says | lighter on behalf of the Society. erbert continued as “pure interfer-|gue made a careful study of the sit
A space to live again, of psychology, that is in the academic ence,” preventing others from doing | uati and ‘eport. All t putes
ARENIOR'S LAMENT ee ee eychotogy, that pia nting s om doing} uation and a_ report. All the states
ppiness. aspects and not as a branch of med-| Each of the Professors then spoke in| harm. But the League has other work! accepted this report and the difficulty
| | icine; that no other. subiect is today so| turn, complimenting the boys on the|than preventative. “It does financial] was smoothed out. ;
4 eg caer Dal by an open door. Just a song to sing, dominated by uncontrolled enthusiasm, | success of the smoker and giving some salvage work. Some countries nek as Sie Herbert had intended to speak atso
W. lung wide a / Perhaps—an endless day, fanaticism, and downright charlatanism worth-while pointers on what further Austria or Bulgaria are nearly bank-|on mandates, but found he had not time
e enter one by one this house A space of caring not. Its hold on the public mind is enormous. | might be accomplished along the same|Tupt. The League gives such countries}and instead concluded his lecture at
. see Of casting time away. One would suspect it for that reason | lines. expert financial advice. Then there|this point. Enthusiastic applause
me oe Dok ae > ee pik tee Be alcie- ; i % oi Teles i : 2 were other problems. The River Dan-! conveyed the appreciation of Bi lkowde
: n—who knows, is answer to all his questions ts that is idea of the students themselves | Gage ———— : :
In that half opened crick It all ma Ini ity i i ' ae
y be the true University is the library, and | presenting the addresses of the evening
And I will never kneel to S—(tan) Onl i f sk 3 ; it i i y a meeting of sky and sea— the true student a,»man whose eyes are | has taken a great hold and it is exI'll just be left—an—also-ran! A time to span infinity. red with strain., “In four years of|pected that this procedure will be
EC ree. one : Wail b reading should be| followed to a large extent in the future FOR GYMNASIUM UIPMENT
.C. —E. A.C, ormed that will, become a permanent | functions of the Dental Society. y
- == | function of his brain”.
° sag 18a 8
The History of the Band Kron le i pat fan Basketball Suppli
WF editorial in the Gateway—the public- W d | upp 1es,
| ation of the Univ. of Alberta. It is anderlust Badmi
' LY nig’ ‘ oe ; written by E. M. J. whom I happen to — a minton Outfits,
A Magda diag A ous wee co a pend in ee the}know. A remarkable chap. Having|I love the roads that have no endings Dal 6 ort Sw t
of the Triba Stu Bee ita Doathc tice co ce : Ger nied See a done everything from feature writing And hills that reach to endless skies, . p Ca ers,
si leatl tis the fAP-saeing Sideer—ensued | Arcee to Be rte peetics for one of Canada’s largest weeklies | And dust that whirls in whispering paths, In fact f - be
: the followin ee Pevis the tacelty guidiig spirit who to yon 8 a mine, so he is quite| Like dreams that mist the dreamers eyes. ct tor anyt ing you may need for
P “Indeed, Sina, in two days our war-| burne i ieee! teh eb , your favori i
eee ese toe Beatie to o’oorne wits | Reena clitnis, RRSGH th, the] 400 “Doliace, for, » Superiority] Tove the drift of embers smake , iit cane
ye alate Bitteen, a mplex And hush that comes with twilight shade
ii ie E ee ey Ber, mares, : ots cabanas LXI a lo and behold! _ Phe average time served at Univer- {Its purpled gold that mists the wood VISIT OUR SPORTING GOODS DEPT.
7 Pie the tile | den Baar LES SCCUTER. ; sity by an individual is four years, | With tapestry of opaled jade.
) _ ‘By the fife, rum, and gridiron! it} Came the battle of the season with each year costing him about $600.00 P }
: shall be as you say”’, saith Singer. the ancient rivals from Wolfville wh ej ay ee A Bens. .
} ay, | ; : 9} making a total of $2,400.00 spent for | I love the gypsy’s croaning son
\ ___ After weeks of rehearsal, at least from| upon seeing the selfsame musical ones 5 © BYPSY ng Ons:
i dusk to dark of the next evening the| who had invaded their territory some ae da Bip ce h ren cuca ae a a Ene eae es * See
ro ene eae , af 1 niversity for the purpose of amassi 1 fi dance
ro was formed. \ y tne purp massing e€ sway and lire ol gypsy dance,
DMR ree day's contrivance act shel Re 0 ke he TEN eee Tne le of nama, fener sil for | And tambourins exiting cal
Peete: 0 tle aloe Pbk Reaisadl’ conveved ¢ : ao € purpose of learning t! rough perBF beetles broke ieee, a 4 eats eee eee pee any api sonal associations the social activities | I love the clean brown earth that gives
ie Dees: | Spit it C3; *, : Squad who were} and most of them for the simple | Their rest a peace beyond all care,
er 2 ) the land of Evangeline. not already crippled. : p P x /
(ce Pe What with belts for headpieces On Saturday last the Band mad purpose of getting a degree. An|And stars that watch in gypsy skies,
Pie black and yellow woolens, and Gan ohehee aes Meeecaded terithc haart nedunsted ‘ean pe at * ee lage And glow with nomada lifted prayer.
ie} “. in and li : ee th : scussing ings. wl a bachelor o c
i>) ee the esen for : : : a) fe
| Based even they oresentd |r shin ean and duet tho act that] ‘Area He thin This man "has Their earavans go winding by
gee Mee le OD ; : : one throu niversi ; mn’ i ; s
___, *heir next appearance was at the} pressed at she village smithy and could | ; aus ws eee ene new birth, Also A Complete Musical Ser
__ _Dal—Wanderers battle when their music| not appear, Dal went down again be- | < Tae a tere ile oe ae ee ee can eaeey Bones, ae
Bhatt Geb eedtintess Bia Racer anc: Singh as ~| ever hope to know. I'll give way to| That build themselves at the ends of 456-460
meee 2h! they Tore the meghty Nomads Tribe, | im....., No! by Jovel_I shan’t give earth. BARRINGTON ST. - HALIFAX, N..S.
Ce Mae es gel alhies —M. Le IS. way. go to: University too, and EC,
Las & i ae a CA

   
  
  

Gs

  
  
 
  

Se
oe i
ss i
. =
- 7

By James Nelson Gowanloch

pages | ided the truth.

   
 
     
    
 
 
  
 

we term the ‘‘Physiologus’’.

remote from those plains
descri a| I wish, briefly, to speak.

idia_ that Ctesias de es
n, Ching-tsae, soon to become the
her of Confusius, saw in a dream a
rn clad in dragon scales and the
t, kneeling, spat out a gem-stone
ich were written these propheci
son of the essence of water shall
the withering Chow, and bea
eless king." She tied, in the
m, an embroidered aves to its
. Springtime came and the servant.
Riinese nobleman nearby caught

    
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
    
 

as ‘‘The Naturalist’.
unknown authors probably one hundred
and fifty years after the birth of Christ,

lost, were translated into many tongues,
‘—Latin oriental and romance languages, Old High German, AngloSaxon and even into Icelandic. They
were first printed in 1587 at the order
of Pope Sixtus the Fifth. It is easily
evident that they were added to from
time to time yet the chronological
arrangement can be readily determined
because the more utterly lacking in
sense is the passage andthe more
stupid the moral, the earlier is the date.

My materials [ have drawn from the

beast in living flesh, the ribbon still
x ind there. hat is our earliest record

a

7

a ©
i

=

oy

_ with his hands that very, dreamed-of

1
of the unicorn.
____In all the following centuries the un___ icorn roves wide in the records of earth.
Caesar s of him in his ‘“Com
b the Childho
glance at a rainbow would have prov
I believe that there can be found
nowhere a better exsample of this time
of scientific arrest than in those writings
Of them
“Physiologus”’ can best be translated
First written by

the original Greek manuscripts, now

entaries’’. The Lord says to Job
: Will the unicorn be willing to serve
_ _ thee or abide by thy crib”. Isaiah
___ curses the city of Idumea “And the
__unicorns shall come down with them........
and their land shall be soaked with
ae blood.” Balaam blesses Israel for ‘‘God
Bi ___ led him out of Egypt even as the glory
___._ of the unicorn."” The unicorn is found
gi pe etna in Persian palaces, on the
walls of ruined Persepolis, on the tombs
of Egyptian kings. Kosmas IndikSe _ ople stes, the fifth century traveller,
saw in the royal palace of Ethiopia
four brazen images of unicorns set up,
beasts te_.rible and invincible. Some
ee he cannot be captured living
or ‘the greatness of his mynde is such
that he chooses rather to dye than to be
taken alive.’ Others say that the
hunter springs behind a tree into whose
trunk the unicorn drives his horn and is
thus caught. Others, again, tell that he
can only be subdued by a beautiful
uiden, As Physiologus says ‘‘apure
'__ virgin, all robed, leads him to the King’s
Wis: palace.”’ 4
_ The unicorn becomes in the Middle
. Ages the symbol of glory, of purity, of
_ pride and of matchless spirit. His
horn miraculously destroys the powers
of poisons. Kings believed that at the
'__ mere touch of a tester, made from the
__ unicorn ivory, a chalice of poisoned
___ wine became instantly wholesome. The
traveller; Lodewiijk Wartman, saw in
fy. the fifteenth century, beside the great
~~ mosque at Mecca, two living unicorns,
untamed yet gentle. Eqmund Spenser

  
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
 
 
  

“se

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
   

Ny ee

   
 

re”
“Like as a.lyon whose imperiall powre
ee, _ A proud, rebellious unicorn defyes”’.

Queen Elizabeth kept with her crown
___ jewels a unicorn's horn worth ten thousand pounds sterling. Dekker in his
 -*Gull’s Hornbook” speaks of ‘The
unicorn whose horn is worth a city’.
shakespeare tells of him in ‘The

    
  
 
   
   
    

 

5 I7 |
*

em
_ "Now I will believe that there are
unicorns” and in ‘Julius Caesar’’:

_ ..-‘For he loves to hear ‘
Phat.unicorns may be betrayed with

, i

>

PART OF ROYAL ARMS

‘The unicorn stood on the escutcheon
_ of Mary, Queen of Scots and on the
‘arm of James the sixth even before he
_. beeame James the first. His haughty
___ form fluttered on the banners of Alvieno,
| ___— ‘Venetian general. He stands in the
stained glass of Bourges Cathedral.
Z Ee carved in wood over the altar at
| reslau. He is found in the ruined
chancel of the early eleventh century
castle at Ansensheim in Tyrol, where he
has become the symbol of God. Ambroise Pare, that excellent physian,
refuses to believe in unicorns. Sir
_ Thomas Browne questions the mir; a aculous virtues and even the existence
of the unicorn at a time when reputed
shavings of the horn sold for twelve
times their weight in gold. Supporter
of the Arms of the Apothecaries and on
i the signboards of the chemists, the
unicorn became, too, the symbol of the
Goldsmiths of London.
. Today the unicorn completes the
official seal of Dalhousie University.
Arrogant head above the “Ora et
Labora’ he seems to disdain both
_ prayer and labour.
5S ' There never was a unicorn, as far
b as we can learn; there is no unicorn
now; and there is no reason to believe
that there ever will be one. He is a
magnificent beast, wrought, delicately,
powerfully and well, out of the insubstantial substance of the imaginations of men. His horn, in ancient
| museums, we identify as the elongated
_ incisor of a northern whale, the narwhal.
Upon that horn, scientifically false,
as it is, | wish to hang, as on a peg, a
, tale of how man’s thought grew in biolr ogical wisdom and stature these twenty
centuries past. Let, for us, the unicorn
serve as symbol of the significance and
ordination of early biological conceptions,

  
    
 

\

i

P

 
  
  
    
    
   
   
  
  
  
     
  
 
    
   
 
  
  
   
    
   
 
 
  
  

. THE REVIVAL OF LEARNING IN
43 SCIENCE

The Revival of Learning in science
followed by almost a century the Revival of Learning in arts and literature
and like the latter, it, too, went back
to those pure and incomparable Greek
springs. ;

Aristotle, three centuries before the
birth of Christ, knew more_ biology
than did our even most enlightened
ancestors of only four hundred yet
ago. Across the space of eighteen
hundred years that separates those
ancestors from the days of the Greek
flowering; there spans a strange, frail
bridge of misconceptions and of un_ believably unscientific science,—a vast

space in which mam sought no rational

interpretation of the world in which he
ves. So simple a thing as the order

   
  

     
 

A of the colours in a rainbow was falsely
es given as red, blue, green, because,
Sy > - twi into symbolic meaning, these

   

twisted
me ger | to satisfy," the thoughts of
men completely occupied in contemplating mystery-religions and controv-_ ersia creeds. False this remained for
five centuries although only a single

     
    
 

id
ae?
> al
oh

   
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
  

best and most complex text ‘‘De
talischen Ubersetungen”’

ago.

NO ADMIRER OF SHIRREFF HALL

The complete Physiologus ‘contains

sixty stories. We may succintly de
signate it as a collection of absurd

sermons concerning the world of animals and plants in which, however,
nature, distorted utterly, severs merely
to discover and enforce theological
precepts. These tales were studied
in the universities, quoted by the
authorities, recited at firesides and
used in teaching for eighteen hundred
years. Each story states certain reputed, usually quite nonsensical, attributes of the animal or plant or stone,
follows this with astonishingly inept
moral and concludes with a satisfied
“Well spake Physiologus concerning
this beast’.

My time permits of only briefest
references:

To the elephant who, having no
joints in his legs, leans against a tree
to sleep. The hunter chops down the
tree and captures the elephant who
falling, cannot rise again.

To the Ichneumon who “‘If he finds
a very wild dragon he goes and smears
himself with mud, and covers his nose
with his tail.’

To the Peacock who ‘‘looks at himself and rejoices much over himself.
He shakes himself and turns a somersault, and looks proudly around. But
when he glances at his feet, he screams
wildly, for his feet are not suitable to
his beautiful appearance.

To convey to you something of the
style, may I quote one short passage
describing the sea urchin:

“That which happens in the sea is
beyond all speech or understanding
(Members -of Zoology Five certainly
will agree with that) | have heard from
one who lives on the coast that there
is a little and contemptible © beast,
which lives in the sea and which tells
tells the sailors whether the waves will
be calm or rough. For this Urchin
seeks a rock whereon he hangs and
clings as to an anchor so that the waves
though they toss him here and there
and up and down cannot tear him away.
As soon as the sailors see him they
know by this sign that danger threatens
them from the violence of the wind.
There is no Chaldean, no mathematician
(not even Murray Macneill) who can
read in the courses of the stars what
the courses of the wind will be. Who
has taught this to the Urchin, a stupid
little beast—who but the Lord himself
ruler of the sea and wind, who has
revealed to the Urchin a glimpse of his
omniscient majesty.”’

There is a shrewd sparkle in some of
these tales. For woman, frail and
fair, old Physiologus has no praise.
He advises against ever marrying.
He tells pointedly of the Heron ‘This
bird lives with such great discretion
that before he chooses a mate, he
mourns for forty days. Then when he
has mourned these forty days he chooses
a mate’. Then Physiologus adds that
having chosen a mate ‘“‘the Heron
mourns yet another forty days for the
sin he has committed’. Doubtless,
in another passage, he is looking across
eighteen hundred years with his prophetic eyes on Pine Hill when he gives
this advice:

“And thou, of pure Man! avoid all
Women”. |

Again the turbulent crucible of
human thought suffers broad change.
Within a brief thirty years Columbus,
Vasco da Gama and. Magellan add a
whole hemisphere to the maps of man.
A single century destroys the authority
of the church, discovers the new world
and gives, in England, that starting
point of modern knowledge of natural
science, the writings of Francis Bacon.

The new awakening grained power.
The recovered writings of Aristotle
were translated and studied, saved,
some of them, only from Arabic fragraments. The rising school of Encyclopaedic Biologists—Conrad Gesner,

A New Recipe For Hash

A wife asked a husband—an absent
minded professor—to copy off a radio
recipe she wanted. He did his best—
poor man—but got two stations at
once, one of which was broadcasting
the. morning setting-up exercises and
the other the recipe. This is what he
took down.

“Hands on hips, place one cup of
flour on shoulders, raise knees and
depress toes and mix thoroughly in
one-half cup of milk. Repeat six
times. Inhale quickly one-half teaspoon of baking powder, lower the legs
and mash two boiled eggs in a seive.
Exhale, breathe naturally and sift into
a bowl. Attention! Lie flat on the
floor and roll the white of an egg backward and forward until it comes to a
boil. In ten minutes remove from the
fire and rub smartly with a rough towel.
Breathe naturally, dress in war m flannels and serve with fish soup’ .

 

griechische Physiologus und seine orienr
; ; 3 by Peters,
published in Berlin exactly thirty years

John Jonston, Ulysses Aldrovandi—
gathered in the sixteenth century the
nature writings of the ancients and
added to them all that could be learned
from travellers tales and voyages to
Rondelet described the
Belon enumerated and drew two hundred species of
birds. Type of these men is Conrad
Gesner, physician, naturalist and scholar of preeminent erudition, who in
1565 gave his life, nobly and deliberately,
while fighting the plague in his own city

distant lands.
Mediterranean fishes.

of Zurich.

Travellers brought specimens to ver
ify their tales, the horn of the rhinocerus,
the skins of strange apes. This
ciple of verification spread. Unitversities, too, mirrored this awakening.
Reanimated, they ceased to be mere
storehouses of past knowledge and
added, by experiment and observation,
to man’s swiftly mounting understanding
of the circumambient world. Man
added not simply a New World to his
Geography. He gained a New World
in the kingdom of his thought. Only
to the threshold of his second New
World can I bring you tonight. ,
That age of uncritical observation
has been pressed into the past by the
now sovereign age of critical and exper
imental inquiry. Biology measures,
more and more exactly, in terms,
chemical, biochemical and_ physical,

its materials, its observations and its
purposes.

Yet the scientist, as greatly as any
poet, needs the force and aid of imagination. Earnestly must he follow
the wise teaching of that great master,
that marvellous French Physiologist,
Claude Bernard. He must leave his
imagination with his overcoat in the
anteroom of his laboratory. He must
study with clear eyes and accurate
records the progress of his experiment.
Then, experiments ended, he must,
wrapped again in his imagination, seek
behind the visible veil of facts, the invisible meanings of reality.

We, atomies, on a meagre and spinning planet. With brief breath and
mind. Living, as we ever must, In an
instant present. An instant present
—a paradox—an instant present that
has no beginning and has no end.
“Nothing is being, all is becoming’’.

Passes the unicorn and pass, too,
must these proud castles of our scientific achievement. Out of their humbled dust what pillars will arise? What
bridge? What way to what new land?

 

The Medical Unit

(Continued from page 1)

Concerning this period in France
Dr. John Stewart recently gave the
writer some interesting details, two or
three of which may be passed on.

“On Friday, June 8th (1917),’’ he
said, ‘‘we had our first consignment of
wounded... It consisted entirely of German prisoners, mostly slightly wounded,
and there were three hundred and
ninety-two, leaving us only six beds
unoccupied.”

There were also some lighter sides
to the life on active service. Real
Dalhousie spirit is in this: ‘A field
was rented for games and exercises.
On Monday July 2nd (1917) we celebrated Dominion Day by an athletic
gathering which was attended by an
unexpectedly large assembly from the
various Allied Units in our neighborhood and the Mayor and many leading
people of St. Omer. It gave us real
pleasure that the two open events for
which there were many entries, were
won by men of our own Unit, the 100
yards by E. Clay,.and the high jump by
W. Beck, who later on as an officer in
the Air Force was killed in a crash in
Egypt.”

Thus in far-off France did Nova
Scotians battle for the Black and Gold.

Another’ interesting event followed:
“On July’ 3rd, we were honoured by a
visit from His Majesty, the Prince of
Wales, and staff.”

These were indeed pleasant intervals.
But gruelling experiences were to follow.
St. Omer became too perilous. The
Germans were advancing and the whole
area came within the zone of shelling.
Hospitals were moved farther back.

The Dalhousie Unit was sent to the
base depot at Etaples. Even there
danger followed. During the summer
German aeroplanes used to fly over
surveying the area and at night, bombing it. Savagely and mercilessly came
the attacks. Not even the tired doctors nor the gentle Nova Scotia nurses
escaped their Baptism of Fire. Despite
the protest of the hospital Cross one
thousand casualties were suffered in
a single night. Several of our Dalhousians, including Major Hogan, were
wounded and two paid the sacrifice of
their lives.

On Thursday, March 7th, 1918, the
officer commanding, Lt.-Col. Stewart
was ordered to London for duty and
the command was given to Major
Hogan who received his promotion to
Colonel at the same time.

On July 1918 the Unit was again
assembled, ordered to Camiers and
given charge of a 500 bed hospital.
There it stayed till the Armistice, in
fact till March 1919 when it was ordered
back to England.

From England a month later the
men and women who had so nobly
upheld Dalhousie’s honor set sail again
for Halifax and their grateful countrymen. |

This is merely an awkward outline
of one of the greatest endeavours of this
great little college. In so far as is
possible the full story will in time be
told. Dalhousians will then delight
to read the history that is now in
preparation. But this hasty sketch
may perhaps serve as some poor reminder of the debt that the Dalhousians
of today owe to the Dalhousians of
that other Day, which though it means
so much to us, is alas, so easily forgotten.

 

_DALHOUSIE_ GAZETTE

ob of Biology

rin
{}

   
  
  

Page three

 

———

Beard of the Gors| Never Mind /

 

    
      
    
   

Out on the hill where mist rules,
Out on the hill where winds run,
Clad in the glowing moon jewels,
And white chains of the noon sun,
The tiny feet of half-gods beat

A rhythm caught in the cloud rift,
Lost again in the blue rift,

Lifted up to a breathless sky,
Drifted down as a far cry

Out of the depths of a warless night,
Eagle-bred in its swift flight

Back to the hill as a new song—

Then hear the laugh in a half-gods heart,

Hear his voice in the old wind.

Telling a truth so hard to learn:

“Tis well to know that:dust thou art,

And like my song,

No matter the heights a life may find

That unto dust thou shalt return.”
Etleen A. Cameron.

THE PATH OF GLORY

(Continued from Page 1)

After the natural reaction of celebration, we began to count the cost.
We found that Canada had enlisted
over 550,000 men. Of these 66,000
did not come back. They lie in poppy
covered graves in the fighting areas
and where the sea rolls on forever.
The lives of others. are ruined and
ravaged by the part they played and
many still suffer dearly for their patriotic Act. Canada had become a
Nation, the Canadian*Corps was famous, but at how great a cost. This
is but ten short yearsfago. The dead
now over 100,000 and we are still
paying for our dearly bought liberty.

On this Anniversary of Armistice
our minds naturally turn to this breed
of manly men and brave women who
gave their lives in the Great War, and
to those who still live bearing marks
of their great sacrifice. This is a day
of days. It should be the most revered
in our history. We mourn our losses,
but rejoice that at thé!time they were
needed our men and women were willing
to sacrifice their lives for their Country.
This University lost many brilliant
students and graduates in the struggle.
Our enlistments were nearly 600. As
far as we can ascertain about 70 died
for King and Country. We received
in the vicinity of 51 decorations classified as follows;

 

SAVE THE “POKER HANDS’ >

NOTICE!

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO
STUDENTS

SUITS & OVERCOATS
CONDONS

MEN’S STORE

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED
SAC. 4444

 

 

Studebaker Touring
$225.00

5 New Tires—Good Condition

Atlantic Motor Sales

Dondonald Street

 

LORD NELSON HOTEL.
23 SPRING GARDEN RD..

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College.

  
  
 
   
  
      

 

     
  

 

 

 

 

 

Distinguished Service order 4 Halifax’s Only Metered SERVICE— Always experienced
Order of the British Empire 2 Service barbers at your service. ;
Military Cross 31 Special Bobbing Parlors
Military Cross and Bar 3 For Ladies at
Distinguished Conduct Medal 2 es pas - Hours.
Distinguished Conduct Medal & Bar 1 © travel for same as one.
Military Medal | 5 More than two, 20 cents extra, A. PUBLICOVER
Distinguished Service Cross 1 23 Spring Garden Road
Croix de Guerre 2 — .
This is a glorious record, and one . AE
yes all tho compected with the MacDONALD @
niversity should always remember. FORSYTH
EK

It is the hope of many of us that the
day is not far distant when Dalhousie
will erect a suitable memorial to our
gallant dead. .

“Each one, man by man has won
imperishable praise, each has gained
a_ glorious. grave—not that sepulchre
of each wherein they lie, but the living
tomb of everlasting remembrance wherein their glory is enshrined, remembrance
that will live on the lips, that will
blossom in the deeds of their countrymen the world over. For the whole
earth is the sepulchre of heroes; monuments may rise and tablets be set up
to them in their own land, but on faroff shores there is an abiding memorial
that no pen or chisel has traced; It is
graven not on stone or brass, but on
the living heart of humanity. Take
those men, then for your examples.
Like them, remember that prosperity
can be only for the free, that freedom
is the sure possession of those alone
who have courage to defend it.”

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

& |

18 Spring Garden Road |
|

DALHOUSIE ~~
STUDENTS

College Mens’ Overcoats

$15. to $30.

19 Gottingen St. {~ Phone L 1421

 

Know where to come
for Footwear ~~

| Tie |
Walifax Chronicle

AND
The
Balifax Daily Star

NEWSY!
ACCURATE!

Right down Spring Garden
Road, No. 25,—or the Main
Store 555-559 Barrington St.

Dartmouth Residents,
26 Portland Street

at,

 

  

3 Stores

W.L. Tuttle

   

DEPENDABLE!

   

  

THE SONG SHOP rp.
for ANYTHING in

MACLEOD, BALCOM

LIMITED

  

 
   
 
  

Se TE MUSIC
Phone Sac. 692 34 Morris Street a ee

174 Spring Garden Rd

203 Young Street

Cor. Quinpool Road

and Oxford Street
and Bedford

 

 

Text Books
Looseleaf Note Books
Special ‘‘Lab’’ Book
Fountain Pens
Eversharp Pencils

 
 

STUDENTS

Text Books

 

 
 

 

   

  
  
   
 
 
 

   

 

Note Books

   

WINNERS FROM THE

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS, CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

Globe Laundry Ltd |

50 Buckingham Street

| Prompt attention given
| Special Orders

    
  

Loose Leaf Books

Stationery, Etc:

    
 

Fountain Pen Repair
Specialists

FARRELL’S

New Store
446 Barrington Street

   

T. C. Allen & Co.

124 & 126 Granville Street

    
 
 

  

——~—

SOCIETY
BRAND
CLOTHES

SOLD ONLY AT. |
Winter-Burns Ltd

437

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

COLLEGE COLORS

We have a good supply of our
distinctive Dalhousiestationery
Neat size crest, die stamped in
yellow and black on high class
parchment paper, club size, with
envelopes stamped to match, suitable for ladies or gentlemen.

Sold in bulk only, buy any quantity you require.

Faulkner’s Book Store

16 Spring Garden Road

      

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-PresC. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’ |
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

    
 

 

 
   
 

BARRINGTON STREET

 
 
  

   

 
 
 

     

 

bis a Une Services.

was

ete

an advantage for Dal.

‘17-0 SCORE

ake ‘Datecode Tigers, ahhougn not
defeated, were sent drooping back to
2 of oblivion last Saturday by
It took the

 

 
  

forces of land and sea many

: Py long minutes to crack the stubborn

  

defence but they did it eventually
as their try just offset Wickwire’s
aS free kick, the count was

evened. It didn’t change. All of which

s very unsatisfactory, except of
course to the Wanderers. ‘Dal ousie
are just about eliminated and the

; , who deserved to win advanced
but one point.

It wasn’t a very thrilling game to
eee is, excepting the last minutes, and the blame rests on the weather
man rather than on the players. The
oo was rain soaked, the ball was
and at times the playing

ll wet. The first half showed
Bill Wickwire
surprised by turning a free kick into
three points. It was a nice effort and
oe a toa while looked like the winning

f the ame. The first half ended
a otnis iger advantage. Services
were forced to touch for safety once.

THE TIGERS AT BAY

In the second half everything changed.
The Services outplayed the Tigers and
although the play shifted from South
to North and then back again, the oval
remained pretty much behind the Dal
twenty-five yard line. In fact a United
score seemed inevitable on a half a
dozen occasions. The Tigers however
did everything but give up. They
actually fought like Tigers and it was
only shee r driving power that finally
gave the Services their te They
didn’t convert and consequently fought
on all the harder for an advantage in

re. At this time they had every
aavantige but that. Five times the
Tigers touched for safety. There was
no breaking the Dal line. A few free
kicks relieved the press momentarily
but the East end of the field saw little

seal vi

_ of the play in those closing minutes,

Scrum after scrum on the Dal five
yard line placed the Tigers in desperate
situations. The players, mud-covered,
tired, and fighting with their backs to
the wall, deserve credit for holding the
Services to one lone try. There was
little opportunity for the punting that
featured the first half of the game.
Despite this many a timely kick saved
a score against Dal. His Majesty's
Forces launched attack after attack
on the Tigermen. They didn’t have
the required results though and, just
before the game ended, Dal broke away
and advanced as far as mid-field where
the whistle ended hostilities.

McLEOD MAKES DEBUT

a a result of the draw things now
look pretty rosy for the Wanderers.
It’s a good bet that the Redmen will
collect the most scalps this year. At
any rate Dal’s chances are slim and it’s
just as well we had that theatre party
a little ahead of time. Sandy MacLeod
made his first appearance for the Seniors.
It wasn’t much of a day for a debut but
he played a good game. Davison was
especially effective in ruining the Services’ chances to cross the Dal line.
Jones showed good form, Hewat never
seems to weaken; it takes two United
men to nail Ort. He rarely gets a
decent chance to use his speed. In
fact the entire Tiger three quarter line,
for some reason or other, has had little
opportunity to show its speed or ability.
A fact that might well be remedied next
year.

The Intermediate fifteen functioned
poy to whip the Services 17—0.

ts of material yo that outfit. They'll
probably graduate in good time to
strengthen the Wanderers.

a

CLARA BOW COMING TO CASINO

 

_ Clara Bow, the most popular girl in
the world, will be seen at the Casino
Theatre on Monday, Tuesday and
‘Wednesday of next week in her newest
picture, “The Fleet’s In.’’ Yo-hoo,
girls, here’s all the dope about sailors’
sweethearts. Better than ‘It’? By a
mile. It’s fast, frisky, frolicsome. Laugh
galore, enough “it’’ to sink a battleship
and—helieve it or not—a tear or two.
Here's Clara Bow as her millions of
fans want to see her. Imagine—
red headed Clara as a dance hall hostess
eae ling shore-going sailors for the

eedom of the seize. You'll cheat
yourself of the best in screen entertainment if you don’t see this one.

—____4

INTENSE WAR REALISM IN THIS
_ BRITISH PICTURE

 

oe realisms uch as has never been
upon the screen before is a

feature of ‘‘Mademoiselle from Armentieres,” the British Gaumont war
be distributed by Metro-GoldwynThee and playing at the Majestic
e Mon. Tues. and Wed of next

ee “All the humors, pathos and
romance of war have been blended in

this film ee os accuracy and auth
detail seldom equalled in

film ead _ Estelle Brody, a player
new to audiences, plays the
ea, — with immense charm and
_ while the large cast includes

ny | i ene famous abroad, including

Alf Goddard, Humberston

   

  
  
    
 

; , og John Hamilton | and Gabriel |

®

’ , '

ew"

Dal with 47.

 

TFROSH LOSE OUT
IN TRACK MEET

RELAY GIVES
~ ACADIA VICTORY

 

The Dal freshmen track team lost
to the Acadia class '32 by the slim margin of two points last Saturday morning
on the campus. With only the relay
left, the Dal representatives were
leading 42—39, but ten points in that
event for Acadia gave them a total of
49 and the five for second place left
It was a hard break for
our Freshies as they had led in points
throughout.

Verne Eville, the big fullback on the
Acadia football outfit, was the star of
the meet with three firsts to his credit,
besides running as anchor man in the
relay. Jim Muir was close behind
him with victories in the mile and 880
and was also anchor for Dal in the relay.
“Big Jim’? McLeod won the shot put,
was second in the high jump and was a
close third in the half mile. Algy
Brittain gave an exhibition vault of
nine feet after winning the pole vault
at eight feet, six inches. The other
Dal men showed up well considering
their lack of condition, while the Acadia
men all seemed to be in the pink.

The meet was held in almost perfect
weather conditions. There was no
wind and it was not too cold, although
it was no July day. The track was in
fair condition, but the runways for the
jumps were quite slippery. The officials who were Dal students with the
exc2ption of Mr. Stirling, handled the
meet in a capable manner while more
than a hundred spectators, chiefly
Dal supporters, were there to cheer
their respective teams to victory.

The results.
100 vard dash—Eville (A) Ist;
Walker (A) 2nd; Jardine (D) 3rd.

Time 10 4-5 sec.

220 yard dash—Eville, 1st; Rogers
(D} 2nd; Brown (A) 3rd. Time 24
2-5 sec.

440 yard dash—Walker Ist; Magonet
(D) 2nd; Summers (A) 3rd. Time

59 1-5 sec. f
880 yard run—Muir (D) Ist; Vallis
(A) 2nd; McLeod (D) 3rd.~ Time

2 min. 14 sec.

One mile run—Muir Ist; Vallis 2nd;
McCann (A) 3rd.

Time 5 min. 08 3-5 sec.
One mile relay—Acadia (McCann,
Read, Walker, Eville) 1st; Dalhousie
(Rogers, Spencer, Magonet, Muir) 2nd.
Time 3 min. 52 sec.

Pole Vault—Brittain (D) sts Ebers |!

(D) 2nd; Widden (A) 3rd. Height

8 ft. 6 in.
High Jump—Morrison ist; McLeod |]

2nd; Lorway 3rd. All Dal. Height}}

4 ft. 11 in.
Running Broad jump—Eville 1st;
Galbraith (A) 2nd; Lorway 3rd. Dist
ance 19 ft.
Shot put—-McLeod ist: Walker 2nd.

MacDonald (D) 3rd._ Distance 33ft
1 in,
J. L. McK.
—_— >
GARRICK NOTES

 

Dalhousians, in fact college students
in general, have a great liking for music
of the type supplied by the Mae Edwards
Novelty Orchestra, a strongly established group of musicians who always
receive a warm reception in Halifax.
It will be good news to students that
this clever aggregation will again be
in the city next week, accompanying
the Mae Edwards Players, which open
their annual engagement in the city
on Thanksgiving Day, with a special
holiday matinee at the Garrick theatre.

Miss Edwards is a talented actress
who has many followers in Halifax,
and once again, with her company, will
offer popular plays at popular prices.
In addition to plays and novelty orchestra numbers from the stage, there
will be the regular vaudville offerings
between the acts.

The Glossop-Harris Company concludes its session at the Garrick theatre
on Saturday evening with their presentation of the famous play, “The
Thief.”’

Halifax Conservatory
of Music

PIANO VIOLIN VOICE

Splendid opportunity for Umiversity Students.

Practicing facilities available.

Tel. S 224

 

** Ask the men that wear them’’

Your Class-Mates Are Wearing

Roxy’s Clothes

WHY NOT YOU?

154 Granville Street

**A little out of the way.
But it pays to walk.’’

 

 
 

ene enemy epee: LE LS Lh Ty pe i i me my ee ~

  
  

 

TS ——-
jj °**THE PORT OF MISSING GIRLS’

“DAL HOUSIE GAZETTE

 

ee

   

AT THE ORPHEUS
“The

 

Port of Missing Girls’, a

ond Brenda Regional production, directed

THANKSGIVING TRIP

 

The Dalhousie Tigers will leave tomorrow for Glace Bay for their annual
Thanksgiving trip. ‘They will clash
with the Caladonia fifteen whom_they
defeated last year in the McCurdy,
Cup finals and it promises to be a
regular battle royal with the Cape
Breton rugbyists out to avenge their
last seasons defeat.

INTER-FACULTY RUGBY

 

The inter-faculty rugby championship is still undecided as a result of
two scoreless draws played by Dentistry and Arts who won their respective
sections. Both teams put up a fine
brand of football in both games and were
so evenly matched that unless one
team gets some kind of a “break” the
honors of first place will have to be
held jointly by the two rival faculties.

SOFT BALL

The newly organized soft ball league
was scheduled to get under way yesterday. Ten teams have entered the
league which promises to eclipse all
other inter-faculty competitions. The
teams entered are, Arts, Er gineers, Commerce, Medicine, Dentistry, Law, Kings,
Freshmen and two teams from Pine

Hill.

 

GIRLS SPORTS

 

Two games were played last evening
in the girls inter-class league with two
freshman teams playing Kings College
and the juniors.

 

The girls ground hockey team will
play Edgehill in Windsor tomorrow

while they will meet Acadia in a return
match sometime next week.

Those in the teaching training _corps
are asked to attend the exercises in the
gym every Saturday morning. To
write the exams an applicant must have
45 hours gym work to qualify.

HEXATHLON TEAM

 

Under the direction of W. F. Stirling
a hexathlon team will be formed in the
near future for contests during the
winter with the Y. M. C. A. and other
teams. There is a large amount of
material among the students at Dal this
year and it is expected that a capable
group of athletes will be developed.
In a Hexathlon meet there is usually
six contests, high jump, standing broad
jump, fence vault, shot put, short and
long potato races.

| F Voy Wir Tr Cre WELL
SEE WALLACE

i OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y.M. A.C. BLDG. HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

Say it with Flowers, Say tt with ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers & Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D.

Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world.

The Roserp

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac, 1934

 

 

 

RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Ti-kets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 1c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

Sack 428 Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEANING PRESSING

BUTTONS ON

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS

Small Musical  Instru
FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co,

93 Barrington St. Halifax

 

by Irving Cummings. Barbara Bedford,
Malcolm MacGregor, Heda Hopper,
Natalie Kingston, Charles Girard, Wyndham Standing, and a large cast admirably chosen make this a well
worth while picture if you like the
type. The title is intriguing and although the story deals with the sensational things that happen to the
large army of girls that every year
disappear, only to be found in big city
dens of iniquity or in the river, it is
handled so carefully that it will not
give offense to the most fastidious.
The plot deals with the fate of girls
who leave home whether because of
extreme poverty, of unsympathetic
and harsh parents or because of a
great love affair that lures them into
forbidden paths and destroys the way
home.

CASINO

This
Thursday-Friday-Saturday

TIM McCOY
in

‘‘Beyond the Sierras”’
Laurel—Hardy Comedy

‘*The Yellow Cameo’”’

Next
Monday-Tuesday- Wednesday

CLARA
B O W

in
“The Fleet’s
Nautical but nice.
Enough ‘‘It’’ to sink
a battleship.

In’”’

 

TTS SIENA aig Fo Nig eR,
HUBLEY’S

DRY CLEANING, DYING
AND PRESSING

VALET
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT

GIVEN TO DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS

Less Discount
Phone S. i09

Tickets - $2.00.
$2 Sackville Street,

For Youngs People as
well as older folk

Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you

Best Sodas
Best Confectionery
Best Meals

The Green Lantern

JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction on
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Diamond Merchants

CLASS
HALIFAX

 

ee

 

PRINTING |
For People Who Care

We keep promises
and Deliver on time.

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
Phone S. 3800-3801

_

Commercial & Society
Printers

OurHigh cays Standard

makes out Low Price

Doubly Attractive :
SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO , at one

price

24

MADE TO-MEASURE

| Tip Top Tailors|

ae re TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

 

 

  

ir

as

 

 

  

 

THIS WEEK-Fri-Sat.

‘Stre

ets of Shanghai”

Thrills—Dramatic—Romantic

w

ith a cast featuring

PAULINE STARKE

A picture of thrills

_Gaton ia

Here

isa complete list Of each

                            

Fall outfit now!

&atonia Hat

66

66

66

66

66

66

66

46

66

6é

66

$5.00
Shirt 2.50
Tie 1.00
Suit 25.00
Topcoat 25.00
Gloves 1.50
Handk’ef .25
Underwear .90
Wool Socks .75
Shoes 5.00
Braces to
Garters 50

Making a Total of $68.15

A

ae Tq.

THAN AJES DAY

t last on the screen

“Mademoiselle

from

ARMENTIERES”

Now Playing

A Landslide of Laughs

“BABY MINE’’

ORPHEUS

N

“The Port of

with
BARBARA and MALCOLM
BEDFORD McGREGOR

WELL DRESSED

at a minimum cost !
(Your complete Fall outfit need only cost you $68.15)
Every Item bears the well known label

EATON

Le eae ee 8 NE Eee

GARRICK

 

November 9th, 1928

See

     
  
  
     

EXT WEEK-Nov.-12-13-14, .°

Where did she Leave?
Where did she Go?
Who is to blame?

Missing Girl’’ i i

    
 
 
  
   
  
      
      
     
  

 

REPERTORY THEATRE

The Mae Edwards Players

6%

Present

Her Father’s Sin’’

A New Comedy Hit For Halifax
ADDED ATTRACTION

The Mae Edwards Novelty

Orchestra

eh hee
Also a New Screen Series

POPULAR PRICES

 

 

George F. Power
€igars, Cigarettes, Tobacco

SMO

of

Cards,

HALIFAX 
 

— _—-—- —— rn
LT
ees

 

THE CAPITOL
HATS CLEANED and BLOCKED
SHOES REPAIRED

|
|
Special SERVICE Given to Students |
|
|

 

W

 

KERS §{REQUISITES
every Description

—Also—

Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.

 

 

 

atch our windows

10%

 

lJ

 

Specialists in College
Apparel

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

for

DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS

 

Shop

| Our New Department |

on the Ground
Floor.

ENSEN & MILLS |
CO., LIMITED i
Spring Garden Road

ae

weekly specials

oe ——_—___________|

 

Shortly

“There Go The Ships”

Twelve New
Sagas wat the Sea

_Archibald MacMechan

 

We call for and deliver

THE CAPITOL—44-46 Sackville St. 
 

 

ee
as
he ee

 

 

——_>

 

ee
eee

 
