BAe

Valen

ee ee ie

ot

Vans

5
a ,
= |
ia c

a a

|

= f
“
7 ae
a .
" -es p

a
a ce

ae
r

q first few minutes of play, were never
‘headed by their | ;
-—s first half opened with the Mounties

$.A TEAM FEB.10

DAL HOOPSTERS D

- Locals Win

caer
4
fl

Davidson
of interesting game

read 8-0 in their favour.

. kets. j ;
- Dal’s lead while Davidson scored again

Over Sackville

—

leading scorer

 Dalhousie’s aggressive aggregation
‘of hoopsters avenged the hockey teams

defeat when it overcame Mt. Allisons
flashy outfit by a 29-20 score.

Overcoming an early lead the Tigers forced
the play and, with the exception of the
adversaries. The
rushing matters and the score soon
e Dal retaliated
when Davidson scored two pretty basc Fairstein and McRae increased
Mount

: i he score read 10-3.
ee, ee with

A. again forced matters and,

Lister and Hull leading the attack

soon tied the score. Big Jim McCloed

put his team in the lead when he

tallied on one of the prettiest baskets

of the game. McRae followed his

example and put the Tigers four up.

a . od
she rs
ks

ce iat 1)

Sa
Nad

i

Tes
oe

: rae i

=, the Mounties on a pretty shot, which

‘
ry ae : :
after McBeath and Lister had tallied
for the opposition. 1
another two points while Hull helped

At this point Alex Nickerson was play-?

ing a fine game and netted two baskets

in quick succession. A fast first period
en ed with Dal leading 18-10.

ci. “Not discouraged by an eight point

-Jead the Mounties came out with the
“dc oie spirit in the second half,
‘but Dal’s hard working guards saved
‘gure scores time and again. McCleod
McRae and Davidson tallied for Dal

Handler gave Dal

ended the scoring with the board read
_ inf, Dal 29, Mount A. 20.

Da lined up:— )
- Davidson tt, McRae 8, Fairstein 2,
Forwards.

FAS cicion: McCleod 3, Guards.

McClennan, Nickerson 4, Anderson,
Handler 1, Regan, Fraser, Subs.

Tigers Win

Sackville, Feb. 1st.—The
Dalhousie basketball team
defeated the Mount Allison
quintette here this evening
by one, point. Play was
particularly even throughout, neither side having any
decided advantage during
the forty minutes of play.
The final score was 27-26 in
favour of the visitors.

Undergraduate Publica

ee —

Ne

| Here Feb. 10

SS

MILTON H. WILLIAMS

Of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut, who is coming to
Halifax on Sunday evening as a member of the Eastern U. S. A. University
debating team, on the Eastern Canadian tour. The second man is William
C. Erskine, of Williams, College,
Williamstown Massachusetts, about
whom we have nothing to announce as

et.

Mr. Williams is a junior at Wesleyan.
Has made a distinguished record in
college debating and oratory. In 1928
won the oratorical championship of
New England, and placed fourth in the
National! Finals of the Nationa] Oratorical Contest for college students, held
annually on the subject: ‘‘The Constitution of the United States.” He
has also won several prizes in college
oratory and declamation,

In scholarship, Mr. Williams, has
achieved highest honors during the last
two years. His academic major is
Philosophy.

Has taken part in various college
activities, including leading roles in
college dramatics, and in the Theatre
Guild of Middletown, Conn., an official
position on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet,
and participation in the French Club.

His favorite sport is tennis. After
completing his undergraduate studies,
he expects to do post-graduate work
in philosophy in preparation for college
teaching. Heis the sonofthe President
of Ohio Northern University.

Basketball Manager Urges

Adoption of Proposed Fee)

Financial difficulties under which team is laboring
are disclosed

The Editor, The Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:

Permit me to emphasize the necessity for raising the students’

fee to $10.00.

In recent years Basketball at Dalheusie has keen on the decline.
This fact results from poor support given the team by the student
body. But in the final analysis the want of support results from the

scanty allowance given for Basketball.

When basketball at Dal
housie, receives a grant which will peimit the Manages to offer
a “reasonable” guarantee to a team as the Saint John Trojans,
then, and then only, will the student body have a right to expect
their repsesentatives to be of Championship quality.

MacODRUM
3 5 who favours

$10 fee

The success attending this year’s
team rests largely on the splendid support which is being given by the student body. For this reason I regret
that “our” financial position does not
permit the “fighting Tigers” to arrange
a home game with the present Maritime
Champion Trojans.

The present grant given for Basketball purposes at Dalhousie, fades into
insignificance when compared with
that given at other Maritime Colleges.
Acadia has alloted $650.00 for the

resent season. Dalhousie provides
$225.00 for all first and second team
purposes. A comparison of these figures explains the difficulty that confronts and hinders ‘‘our’’ teams in their
bid for the Championship.

Sincerely,

GORDON MacODRUM,

iInGit
ay

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 4ru, 1980.

SS

Show Story to
Appear Friday

Owing to the number of
articles received for publication on the Ten Dollar
Fee Project we are forced
to hold over the story of
the Glee Club Show ‘‘Kollege Kapers,’’ until the
Special Edition of the GAZETTE on Friday.

Commerce Society
Plans to Hold

Dance

The Commerce Society held a meeting last Thursday and the attendance
was splendid. Among the business
conducted was the reduction of the
Society fee to one dollar for the remainder of the year. The treasurer
announced that emblems of the Society
in the form of pins and rings may be
procured by any members desiring to
purchase them at Henry Birks. The
most important announcement was the
announcement of the Social Cimmittee
to hold a real live dance at the Lord
Nelson in the near future. This plan
was unanimously endorsed by the large
number present. Since it was pointed

out that no further dances haye been|and the good att

scheduled for the Lord Nelson this year,
this dance is certain to be an attraction
and a great demand for tickets is already anticipated. Miss Elizabeth Allen, Wally Rowlings and Barney Archibald were elected as a committee to
attend to all arrangements.

_ Kaperess

MISS HELEN WILLIAMS

who scored a decided hit in last
week’s club offering

On Jan, 80, Class '32 held a meeting

commented upon ‘by
The purpose of the ;meeting was to
arrange for a class party to be held on
Feb. 11, at the Jollimore Residence of
Jack Mahon. There will be plenty of
eats, good music, and free transportation, in short a real party.

What the $10 Fee Will

Accomplish at Dalhousie

The adoption of a $10 fee to replace the present
inadequate toll of $7 which is being paid by each
student for the sponsoring of Dalhousie undergrad.
uate ,activities will make possible the following
changes, all of wh.ch are most essential if Dalhousie
is to occupy the place in collegiate circles which
she so justly deserves.

1. Standard equipment for Glee Club including improved scenery and lighting effects, thereby
assuring improved entertainment to the many
patrons.

2. A paid full time coach to train all athletic
teams of the University.

3. Individual permanent awards for debaters,
in inter faculty and inter classcontests tending to
create a greater interest in this phase of activity.

4. Free admission to all games, assuring the
players of increased mora! support and stimulating
interest among the students in University activities.

5. The provision of standard uniform and instruments for the members of the band to supplant
the bofrowed equipment which is now being used.

6. More practice periods will be available for
the hockey team.

7. Interfaculty hockey will be financed by the
Council, which innovation will tend to develop

material for our senior team as in the case at present
in basketball and football.

8. The bi-weekly publication of the Gazette
will be made financially possible, also more cartoons
and cuts can be procured to improve our University
paper.

9. Better equipment may be procured for all
athletic teams.

10. Grants to organizations which are at present unaided by the Council will be availabie.

11. New activities can be indulged in by the
different faculties, e. g. bowling and given financial
aid by the Students’ Council.

The above are merely a few of the more obvious
changes which may be effected by the adoption of
the increased levy.

The possibilities for advancement in all activities are unlimited. It is upto us, as students, to do
all in our power to insure against a continuance of
the present system, and adopt the proposed measure which will greatly further the aims of our
student oroanizations.

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

No. 16

EFEAT MT ALLISON inal Plans Completed

for Reception of
American Visitors

Situation of British Empire to be subject of controversary. Greene and MacDonald to uphold
Negative

Final plans for the big International Students Debate here next
Monday evening are practically
completed, and Dal’s two representatives are burning much midnight oil in their endeavor to
bring to Dalhousie its first debating victory in a number of years.

The big event is scheduled to
take place in the Studley Gym,
Mon. night, Feb. 10th, at 8 p. m.

The resolution: ‘‘Resolved, that
the British Empire is in a Grave
Danger of Disintegration.’’

Aftirmative: Milton H. Williams,
’31, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn.

William C. Erskine, Williams
College, Williamstown Mass.

Negative: Cyril J. Greene, Law
"31.

John A. Y. MacDonald, ’31.
The American team is expected
to arrive at 10.50 on Sunday eve
TTP

President Mahon. |

Acadia Students
Dissatisfied

Wolfville, Jan. 3lst. The
Acadia University students
are dissatisfied with the literary magazine published
at Acadia. A Committee
has been appointed to consider publishing a weekly
paper similar to that which
is published at Dalhousie
University. The literature
of today, they argue, is not
of necessity, of the high
brow type and it is their
intention to have a paper
where the activities of the
University shall be printed
in a manner to be under= and appreciated by
all.

Sodales to Hold
Novel Debate

The next Sodales debate, to be held
in the Munro Room on Friday, Feb.
ith, will be of a different form. It
will be modelled on Parliament; that
is, the House will be divided into the
Government and the Opposition, and
the Chairman will be addressed as the
Speaker. The subject will be, Resolved that the Senate should be abolished.
Alec O’Handley, former M. P. P. will
open the debate, and will be opposed
by one of his colleagues at the Law
School; Jean Leslie and Gera!dine Simm
are to be the feminine speakers, The
Munro Room will be divided intotwo
sections, corresponding to the Government and the Opposition; the supporters of either side will thus be grouped
together. This is a new idea at Dalhousie and should arouse much interest; Hart House in. Toronto has
found it very successful. Watch the
notice-boards and Friday’s Gazette
for further particulars.

Boxers Organize

Following the march of progress, the
Boxing Club officially became a student
activity for the year when at a meeting
the following officers were elected:

‘‘Jim’’ McLeod, Pre Dent, President.

‘Archie’ MacDonald, Arts, manager.

Dan Wallace, Arts, Secretary-Treas.

The executive is to consist of one
member from each faculty. The follow
ing have already been chosen and the
other faculties will be represented—
the executive at the next meeting,

Joe Conrad, Pre Med Executive.

King Jones, Engineering Executive.

_ Waldo Hoodman, Commerce executive.

Albert Randall, Freshman executive.

ning from New York. They will
open their tour here next night.
They leave for Mount Allison on
Tuesday, 8 a. m.

A panel of three judges will
render their decision. The personnel of this distinguished trio will
be announced Friday.

| Following the entertainment dur
ing the day on Monday, and the
|debate in the evening the team
will be the guests at a banquet in
the city, by Sodales Debating Society.

You can’t afford to miss this big
debate. It’s the event of the year
that you’ve waited for since September. It is the only Sodales
performance here this winter. Final details will be announced in
Friday’s issue of the Gazette.

Tickets on sale at the University
now.

weld Dice he

Alumni listeners send
congrats from ail parts
of the Province

On Wednesday evening last week,
the first of the series of broadcasts of
student activities over C. H. N. S.
took place, from the main studio, of
the Lord Nelson, when the four participants in the now-famous debate of
two weeks ago toid the world at large
just why, and why not, “We should
pity our grandchildren.,’’

The participants were Miss Marie
Fergusson and Kelty Morton for the
affirmative, and Miss Gladys Farquarson and John Denoon for the negative.

Ernest Howse officiated at the
microphone in real protessional style
and outlined Sodales to the pubiic,
before introducing each speaker with
little bouquets of remarks. The Secretary conciuded the evening.

A number of congratuiatory letters
have been received by the President
since the broadcast. A message from
the Station Director was the first, and
congratulated the promoters on their
Originality in getting up the debate.
Many Dal grads from far and near
were listening in and have written with
glowing reports of the reception. Still
another letter contained an invitation
to bring the quartette down to- the
School tor the Biind at a future date.

Senior Party a
Great Success

One of the most successful parties

ever staged, was held at the Waegwoitic
Club on Thursday, Jan. 80 when the
Senior Class decided to make’ whoopee.
This party was in the form of a Novelty
Dance and Bridge combined. The
chaperone of the evening were Prof.
and Mrs. Jim MacDonald.
_ There were twenty dances, of which
four were novelty numbers, and the
music was furnished by none other
than Johnny Budd and his orchestra,
While plans were originally made for
about torty couples, this number was
almost doubled and much praise was
given the social committee in the
capable way they carred out the
arrangements.

For those who preferred Bridge to
dancing, there were seven tabies of
Bridge where they could trump, double,
redouble or what have yours to each
other.

A Dalhousie, in work or whitehead
was found in Ken Matheson when he
copped the men’s first Bridge Prize
which consisted of a tin of Players
Cigarettes. The Ladies’ first Prize
was captured by while the
Boobie went to “Buddy’’ Armstrong.

With the ticking of the clock towardf
the one o'clock goal came the end os
a very enjoyable affair and the participants slowly wended their ways
home,

 
     

“

 
 
 
  
  
  
   
     
 
 

ce
a

a

 

a?

   

eo ee :

    
    
     
   
     
     
  

 

i ae F

 

  

 
 

  

 
   
 

 
      
  
       
   

- Under
b: caeLee: * oe eR
ba. a - A ee tae a .
4 on Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”
eS | ‘ es Editor. eS Managing Editor.
E). K. MACINTOSH, B. SC. RALPH S. MORTON, B. A.
oe Phone Sac. 3361. Phone Sac. 804.
he > . News Editors.
eg ARTHUR PATILLO
viet ~ KEN. SMITH.
es ’ VANCE FRASER.
7 DORIS MARGESON
Bere ty ; | J. ROSENBLUM
Society and Girls’ Sport Sport Editor.
«HELEN G, WILLIAMS, Pp. A. OYLER.
ee Pye Misbelais Rdiions,

.

&

re
- a

  

MADELEINE PAGE, B. A.

Asst. Business Manager.
J. R. DONAHUE,
Phone Sac. 4086].

React
S. W. ARCHIBALD,
me ‘Phone [2291

  
 
 

a
oe 4

~

 
 
       
     
    
    
     
 
   
     
    
     
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
      

  

 

a Subscription Rate $1.50 per year.
eX Gazette Phone Sack. 4866.
Printed by WM. Macna & Son, 7-11 Bedford Row, Halifax, N.S.

: | THE PRESIDENT’S FRANCHISE

 
 

x Pre Last term, a faction of the stvdent’s council, which was atae, tempting to put through an amendment to the constitu tion, failed
in their effort, not because they did not have the required twothirds of the council in accord with their idea, but because that
~ ‘body has been accustomed to deprive the President of his vote on
alll questions excepting in the case of a tie, when, (and then only)
he is allowed to cast his vote, which incidentally, is representative
_ of as large a proportion of the student body as is the vote of any
other one member.
_—— Why ‘this custom has been adopted and practised by that
-——s qugust body is a question, which, probably, will never be solved.
_---——”—sS Wien «the discussion referred to above was in progress, several
___ of the members (including the learned delegates from Law) gasped
-_- at the suggestion that the President rightly possesses the privelege
ee ot voting. Those who were against the motion for amendment,
believing the President to be at variance with their cause, naturally
upheld the custom which had been in vogue and vice versa and the
___ merits regarding the question, as to whether or not the President
should vote, became secondary importance. The situation remained deadlocked for the rest of the term owing to the ever present
possibility of the old issue again springing up as soon as the President was granted his franchise.
Tn order to obtain a reliable and impartial decision several of
____ the leading lawyers of the city were interviewed. Ex-Dean Reid,
late of the Dalhousie Law School, was among those asked for a
uling on the question. His knowledge of legal and parlimentary
rocedure which compares more than favourably with many of

olleagues who agreed with him, prompted the following decision.
You have askec

m.
a

  

  
 

- “a
i

  
 
 

    

 
 

co
Py

   

a ee

ked opinion as to the effect of Article
ie Oud

  

         
  
  

6, Rule 1, of the Constitution. Under that Article the
President of the Council is entitled to vote at all meetings.

Pea ae
> cae er 6
iy > fe

4
e's

In the event of a tie he has the right to give a second or
= easting vote. ‘He would not be entitled to give a casting
-_- vote in matters under Article 9, Rule 3, but he would be
-_ entitled to give his ordinary vote as a member of the Coun-_ ¢il in such matters. In considering the ‘two-thirds’ in
_.* the second line of the last mentioned rule, it must include
two-thirds of the members present including the officers
; and president. Fractions could not be considered, e. g. if
there, are; twelve present including the president, eight
must vote in favor of the amendment. If there are eleven
present including the president eight must vote in favor
of the amendment.
You will understand that I am not tendering this

'

| _ information as a member of the Faculty or as an adminis| ss trative officer of the University but merely as a member
| of the Bar, requested to give an opinion upon the interss pretation of the Constitution.
jee) ed ee Yours truly,
be * 8 Joun E. Reap.
ae ¥ The Student’s Council has been in existence for eighteen

__ years, during which time, the undergraduates who were represented
on that assembly by the President were denied the privelege of
-- having their opinion registered when a vote was taken on any
question, whether of prime or secondary nature.
_ * ‘Shall we, in future, pity our grandchildren in this regard or
‘will the present council see fit to adopt a procedure whereby all
undergraduates are given equal voice in the administration of
_ our undergraduate activities?

   
   
   
   
  
    
 
    
  
    
  
  
   
   
     

+
af

 

THE $10.00 FEE

In this issue we are printing messages from several of the
z managers of various undergraduate activities and in each case
___-you willnotice that the writer strongly denounces the inadequate
_ ——s¢ee now being paid by students for the furtherance of non-academic
_ ~~ +endeayours. These people are in a position to appreciate the
____ benefits which the adoption of the $10 fee will afford to the various
ss Organizations and all students who are dubious regarding the
-_---—s advantages to be gained by the pendirg change should acquaint

themselves with these facts.

e 7 a t

Dream Houses | Sells College to
| Pay Mortgage

OO De

 

   
  
 

    
   
   
  
 
  
   
     
    

  

ai it + re wr ‘ - * .
me serene ci 8 Any log cabin in a place I
Nestled in ioe the tall pine trees.
. aes" place where the rare wild flowers
Co) a
And the’ trees whisper softly in the
a. 1, cooling breeze.
_ My tiny log cabin is not gorgeously

‘tapestries, mahogany or fine
A dirons at the fire-place are not
yell burnished.
ir ture is rude—but I’m happy
+ log cabin 'mid the tallpine
an go to peaceful rest,

i
2

Des Moines University, Baptist fundamentalist institution directed b
Dr. T. T. Shields, of Toronto, whic
closed last fall after a number of
events rocked its student body and
administration, was recently ordered
sold to satisfy a 225,000 mortgage held
by Boatman’s National Bank of St.
Louis. ;

Last spring the University Board at
the suggestion of Dr. Shields, ordered
the entire faculty dismissed. This
|resulted in a mob scene staged by the
students who directed a barrage of
_ {rocks and old eggs against the room
fhe | in which Dr. Shields was in conference

-|with the board,—MeGill Daily.

  

‘> 7
43. le ee ,
ce a el { Pa
+ 7 - a. > ta i
nT were |e :

Te es.

r
4 ar a , Pd : E o. As c iy = 7+
al » a i 14 ee . ek
a ma. he — : ; a P aa R y
j a eee ges oe,
= e2 5 ; i =
Pe

”

    

 
 

  

tote > a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sports at Present Being Stinted by

Lack of Finances
Writer Makes Plea for Coach

Dalhousie has had an athletic history of which the College
may well be proud. Championship teams have been produced

in every line of sport.

Old Rugby players who now follow the

games so keenly from the sidelines can tell of seasons when the

Tiger’s line was never crossed

by opposing teams. Hockey

triumphs have resulted from the playing of some teams which
represented the College in years gone by, and not so many years

ago either.

Basketball championships have come to Dal.

Besides

victorious senior squads, interest in inter-faculty sport has been high.

This year Dalhousie produced a championship football team,
due in large measure to the excellent coaching of Dr. MacLellan
and Professor MacDonald. The Basketball.team is away to a

good start in the City League.

The hockey team has done as

well as could be expected in the few games they have played thus

far, in view of the limited time and money ,for practices.

Despite

the successes pointed out thus far, the University athletes on

-}senior teams are not getting an
The achievements, such as they are,

the success of their efforts.

as have been recorded above, are of the past.

 

Makes Ruling

 

JOHN E. READ

who claims that our Council Presdent should vote on all questions

(See Editorial)

Introducing
‘‘BUNKER’”’? MURPHY

 

 

The calendar calls him Murphy
William James B. A. (St. F. X.), B. A.
(Dal).” Those who know him call him
anything but William or James. ‘“‘Bunker,’’ “Tubby,” “Elmer,” are only a few
of his nicknames.

Bunker hails from St, John, N, B.,
and we understand that at home he
is quite a hero. He is best known
from his baseball and has been mentioned as the most valuable player in
different leagues. As a football player
before being put out for injuries ‘‘Bunker’’ was as well known. He was a
member of the team which made the
trans Canada tour in 1927. For the
past couple of seasons he has been
confining his attentions toreferring the
game,

In disposition Bunker is very genial
always laughing and joking thus
making himself very popular with all
who meet him.

His ability as a “take-off” actor is

notable and woe betide the poor unfortunate whom Bunker decides to
imitate, for he can do it in a really
professional manner.
_ His voice is well known, yes naturally
its a “‘basso profundo,” and probably
the best one among the undergraduates.
He uses it in the Medical Quartette as
well as in those ‘“‘dead minutes” between
classes when his year quartette while
away the minutes,

He is interning this year at the
Coburg Road infirmary, and one can
always find him there, at his fraternity
Phi Rho Sigma, or in Medicine 30.

If you have not already had that
pleasure (and few of us have not) step
right up boys and meet “Bunker
Murphy.”

 

 

Odds and Ends

1895.

Sir, could I prevail upon you to introduce me to that young lady with
whom you just conversed?

1930.

Say bozo, knock me down to that

jane you wuz just jawing wita,.

even break in opportunities for

What of the future ?

The future of sport at the University
is dependent on several developments
which must take place in order that
Dal can continue to produce teams
equal to the best College squads in
the Maritimes. We intend to deal
with two of these developments.
Firstly, the seven dollar fee now paid
by the students for the support of all
the extra-curricular activities of the
College, including athletics, is not
sufficiently large to admit of adequate
amounts being spent for equipment,
practice sessions and other measures
absolutely necessary for the development of creditable teams. Secondly,
Dalhousie needs a professional coach
who would be capable of training
football, basketball, and hockey teams.
This is no reflection on the gentiemen
who occupy these positions at present,
but merely an attempt to aid in accomplishing what they themselves

\|are giving their time and energy to;

nameiy, the production of teams in all
lines of sport equal to the best in the
Maritimes.

An increased fee absolutely essential
for the proper support of our athietic
activities. Of course the stickler for
what was done in the “good old days”
immediately says ‘‘we bought our
equipment in those days ourselves,
and were glad of the opportunity to do
To which we reply that the
“good old days’ are over, and that no
student faced with the expense of a
College year can afford to pay the high
prices asked for the uniforms and other
paraphernalia necessary for the well
dressed athlete today. The good old
game of ‘shinny’ is no longer played
on lakes and ponds, but on artificial
ice which costs the sum of eight dollars
for an hour’s rental. Dalhousie teams
are under the immense disadvantage
of not having sufficient money to
allow the players the practice necessary
for the development of their talents.
Football is a possible exception. In
these days of fast semi-protessional
leagues Intercollegiate sport does not
draw a sufficient number of fans to
support the teams. The remedy for
ali this lies to a great extent in an
increased fee so as to give the University representatives in sport an even
chance with the teams they play
against. If you think all the various
sports in the College are well supplied
with cashy just ask the Managers.
They struggle along with inadequate
resources doing their best to apply
economy in its most drastic form to
their activities. This policy means
that other Colleges in the Maritimes,
with their own rinks, paid coaches and
greater financial support, are going to
torge ahead of Dalhousie in the realm
of sport. Those who play on our
teams are representing,us. We therefore have a share in their victories and
in their defeats. When we say that
giving more money to athletics does
not benefit us at all because we don't
go in for sport we are wrong. In the
end, what aids the University aids us,
and surely the development of athletics
to the greatest possible extent benefits
the University, A ten dollar fee
won't buy us a rink or build the new
gym, but it will go a long way towards
the maintenace and improvement of
Dalhousie’s position in the sporting
world,

Next, the University needs a coach
or coaches for all lines of sport. Managers of teams who are expected to
extend their activities to training and
choosing a squad to represent the
College, as in the case of Basketball
particularly have too great a_ responsibility. They are continually
open to the criticism of students who
are just awaiting an opportunity to
point the finger of condemnation at
their fellows in responsible positions.
This is entirely outside their coaching
ability. A professional coach would
be vitally interested in the furtherance
of the University athletics because it
would be his job to see that they
flourished. Inter-faculty sport, rather
in the doldrums at present, would
undoubtedly receive a boost if under
the direction of a man competent to
handle every detail of its operation,
and alive for discovery of new material
for his senior teams. The other
Universities of the Maritimes, numerically not as strong as Dalhousie, engage
professional coaches for their various
sports. The success of their efforts is
evident in the fact that with their

smaller student bodies they can hold

their own in sport with Dalhousie,
and on too many occassions prove that
they are superior. It 1s distinctly up
to the University authorities, then, to
appoint a man, or more than one man
if necessary, to coach the various lines
of sport at Dalhousie.

These remedies here outlined to
correct existing defects in our athletic
system are not offered as final solutions
to our problems, but present suggestions that could be acted upon in the
near future to the advantage of all
concerned,

Gettin’ Goofee
Deserves Name

Dear Kelly:—

I'm “Gittin Goofee.”’ Why are you
rooted to your own cosy corner?
It is because nobody has produced stuff’
hitherto, to compete with your own.

Now I “Gittin Goofee" the Superman of Modern Blank Verse, will free
the readers of the Gazette from the
burden of your bunk—and give them
some of my own. .

Only a genius like yours can recognize the genius of my*work; (which is
a summing up of all that is good and
pure and innocent in college thought).

Hoping that you will prove your
editorial genius by publishing my Free
Fantasy.

lamas always,

GITTIN GOOFEE.

FREE AND EASY FANTASY.
Or
WHAT ARE YOU THINKING ABOUT.

What unsolved problem seeks solution
in

The troubled waters of thy floor-less
brain?

Thou art not physically listless

But thy brow seems furrowed up with
coldly distant dreams.

Surely exams are not perturbing thee?
What wearisome imagery
What mental fermentations
What restless dreams

Intrude upon they sweet complacency?

What dost thou see there in those faroff distant hills

Where thy gaze seems always to linger?

What dreams dost dream

To oon out one dream that's shattered?

What great heart-loss art thou nursing?

And when thou smilest to me, on whom
smiles thy mentality?

And when thy frowns freeze me

Thoughts of whom disturb thy disposition.

And yet thy smiles

Are negative smiles upon us here,

On whom lists thy heart?

Thou art coldly distant and intellectual

Who draws the favours of thy interest |

Or the interest of thy favours?
Who grasps the warmth of thy charm
Or the charm of thy warmth
Warming a cold lonely heart,
Like braths of Lotus-land
Lure the wandering wanderer.
I wonder
Thou bearest no love to beings here,
Dost love a nameless thing?
What vain structures dost dare build
Up out of the intangible chaos of thy
craniums bounds?
Art thou dreaming of handsome heroes
in the moon?
Of twinkling eyes and Beauty’s Belles
in the stars?

Personals

 

Frances Machum, member of class
'33, left for Florida on Thursday last.
Where she will spend the remaining
winter months.

The initiation of the pledges Phyllis
Sheen and Doris Margeson into the
Kappa Beta Phi Sorority took place
on Saturday evening, Jan. 11th.

Dorothy Munroe of Truro was among
the visitors at the Med. Dance. She is
visiting Miss Anna MacLean in the city
for a few days.

Bert Zwicker, Tech, graduate, class
'28, has returned to Dalhousie, to
resume some classes. We are glad to
see him back again.

Nita Ashley spent the past weekend at her home in Elmsdale.

It used to be “Rescue the Perishing,”’
but now “Care for the Dying,” seems
to be the favorite third favorite third
floor theme song.

_ After telling the Form that England
is surrounded by a Continental shelf,
Prof. Macintosh asks, Paulin, water
surrounds England?”

Student— Water.”

SSS ae

 

ELLY’S
OLUMN

 

Say nothing and people will think
you are smart. Especially if they
have just asked you what you think the
Students’ Council will accomplish this
year.

One reason why they call that
Shirreff Hall column in the Gazette
Jottings trom the Port of Missing Men
is that men actually are missing from
the hall this year.

The oldest grads can remember a
time when people went to the Pine
Hill At Home to dance.

Little Rambles With Serious Thinkers.

Betty: I think Hoot is wonderful.
Eileen: I enjoyed the debate at
Sodales on griietc gin, or was it gin?
George Crouse: I still contend that
what this college needs, and needs

badly, is some decent women,

Prof. Copp: “Sic transit gloria mun
di—" thus ending his customary three
hour address and Jo Gardner immediate
ly proceeded to get his transit set up
for Monday. (Joke over).

After last week’s dirty crack on me,
I submit the following:

At the Hall our Little Lil
Is an awful little sil
And as for Mary Crocker,
Just another talker!

(No Apologies).

You heard, no doubt, about the farsighted Scotsman who voted for the
ten dollar fee because he thought there
was an R in the word?

Whoever it was that put up the
notice saying that Prof. MacKay
would miss his evening class in Gov’t 2
ought better to see the Psychology
Prof. to cure his Day Dreams and
Hallucinations.

HEY-DEY.

 

Just Arrived

 

THE NEW

TOOKE

Dawn Grey Shirt

with Ties to match.

Also
The Very Latest in

NEW SPRING

HATS

 

SHANES

MENS WEAR SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

**“Come here and Save.’’

 

 

 

 

For

Basketball

Supplies

Follow the crowd that buys from the leading

Sporting House of the Maritimes.
Goods including Basketballs,
Gym Suits, etc. ane

SERVICE—SECOND TO NONE

Quality
Baskets, Shoes,

SPECIAL PRICES TO CLUBS

 

Barrington Street,

Halifax, N. S.

 
g and. i in the future.

 
   
 

 

Says Co ‘ow.

(156 Spring Garden Rd.,
‘Halifax, N.S.,
Jan.31, 1930.

ts! ’
rh . Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,

he various student activities at
housie have grown with the exn of theuniversity. Every branStudent undertaking has shared

s growth and furthermore new

under rtakings have been fostered. Fur
improvements and additions are

le and have been visualized by

e who look to the future of Dal
i¢ and of its student body but

e who look to the future for im
B Shement. yes, and those who are

concerned deep.y with the present

Ta

day activities see only one difficuity
which bars the way. They feel that

2

the present student fee is insufficient
finance the activities both at present
A ten doiar fee

; if increasing as it would, the income for

we 3

as | are) the persons who know.

student’ activity by nearly $3000 would |}

ut no great hardship on the individual

Been yet it would make possible thr
ace promotion of Dalhousie stu
t activities, and the addition of new
and much needed enterprises,

If you ask the heads of the many

“student organizations if the fee is

" gufficient they will reply in no uncer
manner in the negative. They

A survey of the Canadian Universit
ies shows that Dalhousie has the lowest
Pat:

in the Dominion. The average

_ for Canada is slightiy greater than $14,

over twice that of Dalhousie.
Allison has a fee of $8 for athletics
_ aone!

Mount

If the Da:housie students paid just 1S

I Aion than the average or, even if there

A pomere one other university paying the

a“ - pe Ag ey | '
| " - &
oan 4

i.) - es oa ie te
ee ee ae ee

e or less I would hesitate to promote

“the | increase, but under the present con
itions, and, considering the necessity

vet the change I have no hesitation in
BS be preening the raise in = fee.

Yours trul
FRED C. JENNINGS.

G. A. McDonald

TOBACONIST

| Smokers Requisites of every
7 description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Import

- CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

se

oa Spring Garden Road

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SACK. 4444
Halifax Only Metered

Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one,
More than two, 20 cents extra.

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax.

|| BUTTONS ON

RENTS MENDED
| HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YO

Laundry to Ungar'’s.

| VALETERIA

po

 

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat

Shaped and Pressed, for
60 Cents.

-NECKTIES, cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

. | Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.
Har. 107

DYEING

 

Pest in Ca nada What | ! boost the Students’ Council

Of

P ; einen ea a
A a : ———— I a ; - an ‘ or a Mer yt ee
ee eee * - Va we sad ee a Ea ed. Tt -. a? PX oe. 4 ae
a , a = <e a , Pk P r hed « neh ' — rf Se cw ae A ep es : ; A . be ras * an as << ‘
as : ; : mys + 7 7 “ P a“ fi a 4 - > re i aA ~¢ ed bi = < ~ : 7 a = — + : ay '
a oe eet ee Piya ge Sa ik ot fd papel es :

a 4 : b - ae . a = ’ . <a a 4 i= . ¥. 355 ye J } ay ‘ a el Ce ial ae tials
eee ev ae Ne nS Chad " a (te Ve a9 wae ne . Te oe :
" ge _aS le i i re & J 7 ant

eet. ee ae ne Dy asta» he
oy ce DALHOUSIE ¢ GAZETTE:

il = ‘, ea : ,
ae oe a a * \ Ope KS ipl io ma 5 a
sil apg tie en ee ee an oe aie
PL. . . oe Le Pe eG ee
ie abate ha 4 Ce oe
i Bs [ 3 om Te 7
" 5
™ ¥
vf

 

nt Activity Peaderé ice Support of Ten Dollar Fee ee

 

THAT FEE

To ten simoleons or more
It cant be done if more like me
Campaign around a lot before.

 

Increased Fee
Absolutely

Essential

I have before me a copy of the budget
submitted to the Council last fall tor
Sodales. In spite of being the second
most important (second only to Glee
Club) non-athletic activity, we were
allotted the grand sum of $185.
And this be our share of $6300 at the
disposal of the Council for the year!

We lay not one iota of blame at the
Council's door for this; it is merely the
condition of affairs under which they
~| are compelled to work.

dales has in the past few years
witnessed a great revival in debating.
But in spite of it we are still compelled
to cut all our expenses down to a
minmum, and far below. With this
proposed 40% increase over what is
now probably the lowest in Canada,
Sodales might go much farther.

Through lack of funds our advertising is reduced to $10 for the year. Our
expenses will run far over this allotment, even with the minimum of
show-card advertising—two in number
each time. Some people in the Forrest Building never pass the main
notice-board.

The M. C. L. L, Nfld., entertained

I’m blind to the necessity
higher toll to carry on

Dal Student life effectivelyAnd on and onand on anon.

Thus speak the ininformed few

Who fail to stop and think awhile

But with a biased mind askew

Attempt to cramp the thinker’s
style.

They reckon not the Council Dance

Gazette Year Book and College
Sport

They listen not and gaze askance

At every itemized report.

 

Dalhousie’s yearly College fee
Is less than any we profess
Dominion University

Within the N. F. C. U.S.

Those whom we each year elect
To pay expenses with our cash
Do not we maintain, expect
Millions to create a splash?

They state they need a bigger pile
To meet necessity’s demand

And if you stop to think awhile
Their information is first hand.

Thus we the critics criticize

And suggest to those who’d block it
That when the question does arise
They close the mouth and ope the

pocket. Joe three Dal men last winter in a royal
: fashion. The trip was paid for by
Se a oa them, also all expenses. How far

could we go this year, or any other
year, to repay this courtesy?
Next week the American team will
i be here. We must entertain them.
=a Ee The Council president warns me to
remember the treasury. It is not his
The Engineering Society met for] fault; but how can we “do unto others
the first time tnis year on Friday|,, we would that they do unto us?”
January 10. When a man gains a team position,
Several men were nominated for] he jis awarded a “D”’. Next year and
hockey manager, but Max Whalen|for many succeeding years, he may
was the successful nominee. ‘Three represent Dal. We have no means to
hockey practices have been held at the grant him ,further recognition. At
Arena, and the Engineers are out to| least some ‘small award should be
regain the interfaculty championship | made, in order to set up a distinction
that they lost Jast year. between a man who has represented
Owing to the sound financial condi-| Sodales for three years, and one who
tions of the Society, several parties are | },4<, spoken once,
being planned. The first party was} But how, we ask ourselves. We
held at the Waegwoltic, Monday eve-|cee only one solution, and the sooner
ning, January 20, and proved very|the better. I advance not only my

successful some seventy people being] personal
present. Dr. and Mrs. Hugh Bell personal viewpoint, but that of many

predecessors, without a doubt.
were the chaperons for the evening and On Feb. 19th we plan to hold
the music was by Joe Mills.

ti -_
Last Monday afternoon the Engin- a gigantic open debate on the ques

tion. Will you be there?
eers were given the opportunity to R. GORDON HARRIS
hear a very interesting lecture on aero- Secty-Treas
nautics, It is evident by the number ;

of applications put in for air force . 3 .
: Cupid Strikes Again

The Transit

 

training that the Engineers believe
in another war, and that they do not
intend to spend it in the trenches. Once

Many Frenchmen have been making | the sacred precincts. of the Law School
enquiries about the annual Engineers | and this time it has emmeshed a memBanquet,—never mind Freshmen you] ber of the third year class.
will soon know what it is all about. James Jordan Fay, B. A. has taken

- M.G. for his bride Miss Kathleen Hagen,
M. A. Though it was long apparent
that the inevitable would happen, yet
ndhe suspected that ti would come to
pass at sucn an early date.

Congratulations are extended to
Mr. and Mrs. Fay on their marriage
and the Gazette wishes them many
years of wedded bliss,

The Law School has now the unique
record of having a married man in each
year, and all are regarding with interest certain other promising romances
in that part of the university.

again mattimony has invaded

 

“Well,” remarked Harry as he tied
Bill’s tie around his neck, pocketed
John’s cigarette case, put on Ed’s
muffler, smoothed the wrinkles out of
Joe's tuxedo and stepped out to keep
a date with George's girl, * ‘I’m a true
fraternity man at last.”

Leather Goods
Last!

Students know—Kelly’s Leather goods lasts for years.
Treat yourself to a new leather
Portfolio or loose leaf book
See our assortment of Novelty
Goods—First floor.

Kelly’s, Limited

GRANVILLE STREET.

 

 

    
  
    

 

They meet them in the spring-time,
They woo them in the fall
They marry in the winter

Who is next to fall?

 

The Students’
PRINTERS

Dalhousians always come to
us when they want a good job
done quickly—and Dalhousians
KNOW!

THE ROSS PRINT

95 Argyle Street
Halifax N.S;

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Oyez!

RED BOOK.

Food Values

Thinking in terms of health
we cannot value our food
too highly.

That is why ‘‘ The Green

one at our store.

Lantern’”’ insists on hav-_
ing only the best.

‘*EAT PURE FOOD ”’
The Green Lantern.

 

Pretty Poodles Pinch

Priceless Prizes
Unique Animal Show Held at Shirreff Hall

“T went to the animal fair

The birds and beasts were there.”
You know how the song goes—and
someone, (who was it?) ‘was combing
his auburn hair.”

Collecting animals is the pet hobby
at the Hall. For days—adorable things
—they remained in seclusion, unknown
to any save their respective mistresses
and her immediate friends. But thanks
to the fertile brains of the ‘Cheshire

Pussy’s’’ editorial staff, they have
at last ‘‘come into their own.
An animal fair was announced!

The ground floor sitting room was
chosen for the exhibition, Prizes were
offered! Three competent judges were
selected, Miss Lowe, Dr. Stevenson
and Margaret Cowperwaite. Excitement and rivalry were great. Entries
poured in; nor were the competitors
limited to the beasts of fur field and
the fowls of the air. Teddy bears and
dolls, from Tiggie’s French beauty to
Teddy’s seventeen year old war veteran
were also prominent.

By six o’clock Friday evening everything was ready. The doors closed
and gave the animals time to adjust
themselves to their environment. At
first everything was peaceful at least
so the Cheshire Pussy tells us—and
who should know better than she?”

However tnis did not last long!
Elizabeth's “Old Faithtul,’’ who has
reached the venerable ago of fifteen
started it all. He felt a draught and

Liggie’s ‘‘Ducty,” with the clever
tongue, propnesied rain. Hazel’s ancient bear felt his rheumatism coming

on; Helen's “Hattie’’ was afraid she’d
ruin her beautiful bonnet and Frankie’s
“Bur Rabbit’? wished he was back in
nis comfortbale new barn.

The atmosphere grew more and more
tense, and matters reached a climax
when Muriel’s ‘Bismarck’ and ‘Garibaldi’’—noble animals—started a real
quarrel. There was a woman in the
case of course. Whether she was
Phyl’s ‘“‘Helen” or ‘‘Sophie’’ is doubtful.
Fortunately Garibaldi spied Betty’s
“Hessa’’—‘‘divinely tall and most divinely fair,”’ and this disgracful affair

was brought to an end. But no sooner
had this been settled than a feud
broke out between the two most influential families, Phyl’s and Barb’s.
That Barb’s had the better background
there is no doubt. They were arranged
upon most suitable and artistic cushions. Phyl’s had the advantage of
numbers—and as in all such cases—
“numbers will often tell.”

On the other side of the room,
Audrey's ‘‘Theodore’’ began to highhat his neighbours. Perhaps he had
reason to do so. Could he not play a
beautiful tune. Had he not by far
the most majestic head-dress? Mary’s

‘“Jocko” played a ridiculous trick on
him, wand of course ‘“Peter’’ and “Repete” went into gales of laughter.

Tnis certainly did not improve his
temper. Helen’s “No Soap”’ had Eleanor’s zoological specimen (she would
own a cat) puzzling over that subtle
joke by which many a Haller has been
mystified.

In short, Kay’s “two-faced Judas”
was the only one who managed to
keep in with everyone.

Fortunately the judges entered at
this point. Unlucky persons! Shades
of disappointed, angry, envious kangarooes, chimpanzees and elephants will
disturb their slumbers for many a
night!

Many visitors appeared after the
verdict was given.
among the most prominent. His pri‘small

vate opinion, I fear, was that °
things, amuse small minds.”

The suspense was wearing but at
Saturday dinner the prizes were awarded. The judges found the entries so

Nova Scotia Technical College
OFFERS

ENGINEERING COURSES
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.

Write or call for Calendar or advice

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 

 

 

Oyez! Oyez!

We have sent out free to every MALE Student
in the University a copy of the UNIVERSITY
A number of these have been
returned because of incorrect address.

Any student requiring one of these handy little handbooks may obtain same by asking for

 

Colwell Brothers, Ltd

453-457 Barrington Street

 

Prof. Stewart was |

 

clever and numerous that several
special awards were made,

The formal decision was as follows—

First Prize—awarded on the personality basis, won by “Ebenezer,” a
most individual, be-spectacled old fellow—Breeder—Zoe Patterson.

Second Prize—Tied—Barb Barnhill’s ‘‘Percy” and Katherine Densmore’s ‘Dr, Jekyll and Mr. Hyde’”’—
shared the honours,

Third Prize—Won by Billy Kinnear’s ‘Dead Earnest” and Betty
MacDonald’s lovely ‘‘Kissa,”’

Fourth Prize—Won by that adorable white woolly pup ‘‘Pan’’—Breeder,
Helen Nelson.

Fifth Prize—Awarded from a spirit
of patriotism to Teddy Dorman’s

CONSOLATION!

seventeen year old war veteran,

In the Small Class—Prizes won by
Helen Ewing’s “Hattie,” a chicken
with a beautiful bonnet and Phyllis
Skeen’s “Sylvia” the mother pig with
twins.

Honorable mention were given to the
following—

“Old Faithful’’—Age 15 years, owned
by Elizabeth Torrey.

“Tarzan”—clever actor—Owned by
Phyllis Skeen.

“Thirsty’—the weather prophet—
Owned by Frances Beatteay.

“Dismal Desmond’’—The most melancholy competitor—Breeder, Margara
et Murray.

Pythagoras—because of his beautiful

(Continued on Page Four)

What if you do get '

“bumped” occasionally!

You will find soothing comfort and
consolation in the
wonderful flavour of
Turrets.

TURRET.

| TURRE

 

CIGARETTES

Mild and Fragrant

 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

 

Shirreff Hall

Commerce
Society

AND

Dalhousie
Crested
Stationery

FARRELL’S

New Store
446 Barrington Street

A complete Book—Siationery
and Gift Shop Service

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 Cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax.

ae retseeg
or °
G, :

 

Save the valuable

  
    
   
     

%
mt

tena one

ee

Ui ag AS RANT Ahmed ACCENERTNNNE Dee cetoswet TorRRZEWevaNs 7

  

CN BE eae ae PRIN RAMU Fae nen NOI RAEN meer DA BELEN PBs Makers. MiRatoos, Nam Ramana RN ARMS RR Re Sle

 

Dear Mum,

Theres just heaps of
big Dances coming. The Juntor-Senior, Delia Gamma,
Commerce Society Dance and
best of all our Sorority is
throwing a big Party. Can't
you send me just $12.00 so
I can get anew dress at
D'Eauvisle’s. Please Mum.

Love, Kitty.

D fs auville ’s

ALL COATS = $24.00
ALL DRESSES 12.00

in
HALIFAX
31 Spring Garden Road
Stores in Dartmouth and Windsor

eR RL LR eR A MING ee eee ee

ae

 
 
  

P ee oer

F fi
é *
i es 7,
a r
5 a
—_— .

er Prefers Silent Version
0 “‘Talkie”’ in Libraries

___He who said “Silence is golden’’ knew whereof he speaks, His expression

- eonveys anidea that cannot be mistaken. __ ; :

-_ Had he, however, been a student at Dalhousie University and had he had
; on to use one of the University libraries, as have most of those gathered

  
  
   
     
    
   
  
      
       
   
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
     
    
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
     
  
  
  
    
 

 

ie ‘al buy
Ts ane 
ere in pursuit of knowledge, he might have strengthened his proverb and said

 
  

___ “Silence is priceless,” and he would have been right.
~~ The prices of ra whose rarity is such that it makes them unique are
sometimes so great that they cannot be determined. The value of silence in
 Dalhousie’s Libraries is even greater, for silence there is unknown.

It is, perhaps, to a certainextent eXcusable in the Studley library. Those of
the fair sex must say something at least every thirty seconds or suffer agony.
___ And there always are those earnest students who must discuss their knowledge,
_-—s paragraph by paragraph, as they acquire it, Others, of a playful or kittenish
A te _ disposition, as the case may be, must positively bubble over all the time, It
* _ Not only indicates their pep but their daring as well. Others have even been
’ known to giggle in church,
~~ But in the libraries of the professional schools, these excuses do not hold.
There, the students are considered to be bigboys and girls, capable of under-,
“standing that a library is intended as a place in which to read. Many, perhaps
____ have never had this fact brought home to them. for in the law library, the same
_-—-—s earnest discussions and the same playful banter go on, much to the discomfort
-__ of the struggling minority who go there to read.
_—~—:Ss«dSS:« there no relief? Cannot it be impressed upon these offenders that the
_-———-— silence of a library is sacred? Cannot our fair sister pass notes, our peppy
and daring individuals prove themselves by giggling inchurch and our earnest
; students go hire a hall? If they could, it would be a boon to Dalhousie.

 

Present Fee Inadequate
For Hockey Avers Manager

Non support forinterfaculty hockey responsible for
| non development of seniors.

 

 

_. |. Editor Gazette. sufficient practise sessions to develop
ee fully, the potential hockey material
‘Dear Sir: _ | which we have on hand.

The Hockey situation at Dalhousie] Glancing over the personnel of our
is occasioning grave concern, to those|football and basketball teams, we
students of the University who desire| note, that with few exceptions, our
to see the prominent position of Can-| most colorful performers, have been

_ ada’s national pastime at the University | developed in the interfaculty leagues.
maintained. Such unfortunately is not the case

Old Dalhousians can recall the days| with Hockey, due to neglect through
when the Tigers were the main drawing|lack cf money. of this important

Old Dalhousians can recall the days| phase of University sport.

_ card of the local and provincial leagues. Interfacuity hockey is not getting
But this is certainly not the condition|the financial support which it really
nowadays, or has not been, for the last| deserves. Along with this most all
few years. The reason for this being | activitics at the University are pretty
an inadequacy of funds to secure} much at a standstill, and any advance
‘ ment is enhanced by lack of finances.
ey Our fee here at Dalhousie s_ far

below the average for all Canadian
S. c. A. Delegate Universities. Well, oe ot in mind,

1 would suggest that the students make
et’ > Addresses Dal. it a point, before the present year
i . > passes, that they do all in their power to
fa | Organization see that the Councils of future years,

ee | be supplied with dufficient money to
sy ee Miss Gertrude Rutherford, well
eae A ey to fill the bedgets, of the
eS SS SI a eet ally increasing general activities
known National Secretary of the} 8™pue : we
~~ Student Christian Movement of Can and the one and only way in which
ada, spoke to an interested group the poate : at all ae 7 by favorfe rs ada, Mibeg ae ee. |: »4._| ing the adoption of the “Ten Dollar
‘Thursday morning, in the Arts butid- Fee,” for student activities.
M H. F. SUTHERLAND.

a
<1
Ped ae
a

4 pm
or

ray
Mi.
a ee

 

oy ae

ew et
Me Tae

¥

 

 
    
   

_ ing. Her subject was India.
fees > eee it, wae exactly A oe
__- year ago when whe visited a College in | Poot. i) ed
__-India. She contrasted Dalhousie with] J. ,
Bre , ‘Tag ore’s genet pseu students Lecture ts Enj oy ed
‘the world over have points of similarity
goa Kies those of India are vastly different] On Thursday evening, January 23rd,
‘from Canadian students. They have|the Stewart Allen Biology Club was
ee LS graver problems to deal with than we. favoured with a most interesting adBeats < ‘There, the whole question of national | dress in the Forrest Building.
- is ’ q :
_-—-—__ freedom undercuts all other feeling.{ The speaker was Dr. Beatty, a
-. ___-In order to be popular with the natives, graduate of Queens and McGill uni-——s«one -must give sympathy toward their | Versities. He chose as the subject of
cause. They are a throbbing, seething his lecture, ‘‘Muscle ir Action,” which
gas, surging toward freedom. he illustrated by means of some very
\ tye. Miss Rutherford related several amus/|!"structive lantern slides. Dr. Beatty
Poa "ing as well as trying experiences she had | is, 90w Bio-chemist at tne Dominion
ea. had on her journey. She further added Fisheries Experimental Station in Halt-——s ‘that whe would like to see the S. C. A. | fax.
in Dalhousie composed of a friendly About thirty members were in
Pf, oup, who cared about the place of attendance and the lecture was greatly
religion in life, She wants Dalhousie enjoyed by all present. Following
students to be large enough, intelligent, the address, refreshments were served
_ keen enough to take this matter serious- bringing to a close another successful
ly and to think of the place of religion | Meeting of the club.

in the student world. She has come ae
At the Orpheus

“2 i from India and other universities the
VIVID CLIMAX FINAL TOUCH TO
NEW FIL

 
  
    
   
  
   
     
   
     
  
    
      
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
  

 

- world over, knowing that S. CA. has a
5a wonderful placein student life.
, ‘This is Miss Rutherford’s first visit to
= Dalhousie in three years. Old friends
Ay are welcoming her back and new ones M.
| are proud to make her acquaintance.

Gorgeous Song and Dance Ensem
“~.
*

| | ‘The recent annual Hall Dance has|pje Features Cruze’s First Talkie.
ie _ _ been voted a decided success, thanks
1s to the management of Mildred Grant} The most gorgeous dance and musical
y ; _ and Gwen Curry. Miss Lowe and/ensembles ever seen since talking
! Pi. i Margaret Cowperthwaite received, The pictures were perfected forms the clite Sos honorary guests being Prof. and Mrs.| max of one of the many startling stage

er, W. R. Macwell, and Prof. and Mrs. J

y numbers of ‘““The Great Gabbo,”’ >
M. MacDonald. eee et aoe

Cruze’s first all-talking, singing and
dancing spectacle, which comes to the
screen of the orpheus theatre, for three
days, beginning thursday evening.

As a smashing concluding touch to
a long list of original song numbers
the grand finale rings down the curtain
on the stage sequences, which one
critic describes as ‘‘a series of happy
interludes in one of the most dramatic
spectacles ever recorded on celluloid.”

Over 500 girl and boy choristers
take part in the grand finale of “‘The
Great Gabbo,” accompanied by
a symphony orchestra of 126 instrumentalists under the baton of Howard
Jackson.

Against a kaledioscopic background,
shimmering with color and movement,
the whole chorus ensemble stage a
music and dance medley, the like of
which has never been seen on the
screen.

Erich von Stroheim is a_ stellar
dramatic player in ‘The Great Gabbo.”
Betty Compson has the leading feminine role. The other players headlined
in the large cast are Donald Douglas
and Margie (Babe) Kane.

Off-stage choirs of grand opera
choristers were used for the first
time in this singing and talking picture. The faces of the singers will
never be seen on the screen, but their
trained voices were recorded to help
swell those of the 300 members of the
crude ballet as they performed tue
intricate evolutions and modern dance
steps.

The “‘cold’’ wave has found several
victims at the Hall. For them we wish

’ a speedy recovery.

To Hold Dance

iS On Jan. 19, the Maccabean Club held
_ its first meeting of this year when it
- ——s met to discuss many matters of im
portance. It was decided to hold
dance in the near future which promises
~-—~—s« to: ‘be the “best yet.’’ Other business
of the club having been discussed, a
motion was made for adjourment
whereupon the members tripped the
_ light fantastic for the remainder of the
evening.

_ Pretty Poodles 
ome! (Continced from Page Three)

shape and color scheme—Gladys Far__ Penelope—because of her expression
_ — Owned by Eleanor Chelby.
Ham.et—with the sad expression—

a Barnhill.

ssius—because of the “lean and

ungry look’’—Zoe Patterson.

__ Tiscophemes—because of original na
-me—Helen Champion.

e Show was a great success

me hopes it will only the.

Annual Animal Show—and all

    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

  

_ And then there was the freshman
who rushed “Hoot” Mahon’s girl!

*

LER.

The Students’ Council as
Considered by the Co-ed

Girl undergrad unselfish regarding proposed change
in levy.

 

Hello, everybody, d’ye know what?
That old one about the ten dollar fee
has been resurrected again, and we have
to decide about it. But before we wax
really philanthropical, let’s shake up
our memories and think about it.
What benefit have we gained up till
now? Each and every one of us young
ladies has religiously paid out seven
dollars Council fee on Registration day,
and what percent of interest have we
realized on it?

1. Our copy of the Gazette. (We
realize how valuable this is, yet we
could subscribe to it for $1.50).

2. Glee Club. (This we enjoy ever
so, even when those originals are put
on, yet it shouldn’t be so expensive.
Why, we paid for the curtain!)

3. Rink Nights, so far apart that
we forgot who knows how to skate,
and then only a few of us go.

4. Meagre sport equipment for
the handful of girls who frequent the
Gym.

5. Small grant for Delta mmaGa.
(We pay for our own ticktes).

Now this is what we get for our seven
dollars. And this is what we will
get for our ten later on. Just think,
the freshettes next year will have to
pay three dollars a year more during
their course, that is enough to buy a
beautiful frock (long or short) at
D’Eauville’s.

The last time the question came up,
it was defeated by the arguments of
the men with long courses. This year,
the opposition to the raised fee can have
as their slogan: “Keep the fee as it is
and get a dress free.”

But in all seriousness, the average
girl at Dalhousie does not get her
money's worth from her Council Fee,
and much less will she get it when the
fee is raised. Of course, the gentlemen |
will argue that it is not her money any- |
way. Thatisnotthe point. However
to quote Murray Macneill’s Bible:
‘Women are admitted on the same
terms as men,” and they are willing to
take their share of the financial responsibility of keeping up the good work.
Whatever the men have to say sarcastically on the subject, it remains a fact
that college girls are as good, and probably better sports than college men.
They can’t go to dances unless some
selfish male takes them. They can’t
play Rugby, or belong to C. O. T. C.
Their sports are never taken seriously, |
their share in student government is
almost purely nominal, they haven't
any nice Smoking Room in the Arts
Building. As for their accomodation
in the Forrest Building, well, words fail.

Yet they always bob up smiling, and
take all their little and big digs and
cracks and disillusionments. And now
they are to be called upon to pay ten
dollars, so that they can have the
immense joy of sending the Rugby
Team to Fiji, or the unspeakable thrill
of admiring bigger and better uniforms
on stalwart male figures. If the men
were asked to pay an extra three dollars
so that the girls could have nice new
equipment, wouldn’t they howl! And
put their big feet down—stamp! But
girls are not going to haggle over a
mere three dollars more. If the fee
is raised, as it sould be for the benfit
of masculine activities, the girls will
gladly pay it, not so they can bask in
reflected glory, but because the college
means more to them than the men can
ever imagine.

Bring on the ten dollar fee. The
co-eds are for it. But be it known that
we are not supporting it because of
any false hopes, or because some man
with nice eyes talked us into it, or
because we expect things to be much
better. We know the men need more
money and we are ready to help them
out, to bring honour and a better
standing to our Dalhousie.

 

 

If You Want to See Well
SEE WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Blbg. Halifax, N.S.

 

 

Ladies!

The Slickest all Rubber

Overshoe in Town at

$1.98 at

TUTTLE’S

SHOE STORES

25 Spring Garden Road.
557-559 Barrington Street
and Dartmouth.

 

 

 

 

WINNERS FFM THE

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be,
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods

HALIFAX, N. S.

   
 
    
   
     

 

    
 
   
    
  

   
 
      

 

  

Dalhousie Grad
to Direct Play

The first play, ‘‘The Death Trap”
by H. H. Munro, is to be the first
tragedy attempted by the Workshop
and is directed by Cluny Dale. The
second, a comedy, “Great Catherine’’
is by the noted George Bernard Shaw,
and is under the direction of George
Nichols—once Dal '29.

If some of our Gazette news-editors
realized the meaning of ‘noose’ the
news would be bound to be better in
future!

Fraternity Man (trying for sympathy):—and so here I am, absolutely
broke, with one single odd cent in my
pocket.

Fraternity Brother: That's fine. I

need an odd cent to make a nickel. nana

 

 

 

CASINO

_THIS WEEK
_—Mon-Tues-Wed

RONALD
COLMAN

“Condemned”

with
ANN HARDING

Thur-Fri-Saturday

RUDY VALLEE
“The Vagabond Lover ”’

   
 
 
   
 
    

 

 

ORPHEUS THEATRE.

THURS. FRI. SAT.

“The Hottentot”’) eric von sTROHEIM

A Werner Bros. 100% talking

WITH

Edward Everett Horton with

Patsy Ruth Miller

“‘A racing Comedy that wins bya| with a Singing & Dancing Chorus]

mile’’

and want it done neatly

HOME LAUNDRY (77eysr

‘*For Particular People’”’

Lord Nelson
Hotel

(The Social Center)

The Ideal Atmosphere for
your Saturday Evening
Dance, or at any other time
for your Bridge parties,
Dinners, Dances, Etc. : :

AFTERNOON TEA,

Orchestra—4.30 to 5.30

Comedy Sound News NEWS COMEDY

WASH DAY?

Students !

 

February 4th, 1980

   

MON. TUES. WED.
NEXT WEEK

        
 

“The Great Gabbo ”|

       
 

  

BETTY COMPSON

   

of over 500 Boys and Girls.

      
 

  

 

 

The next time you want your
Laundry finished in a hurry
Call the

      
    

Dry Cleaning, Sponging, Pressing

    
 

 

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The

fastest growing

SUNDAY CONCERT | newspapers ip

9 to 10 p. m.

 

 

Nova Scotia

 

THE ‘MACLEop, BALCOM|| || PRINTING

GARRICK

MON-TUES-WED

** SONGS OF
KENTUCKY’’

WITH LOIS MORAN

 

Coming Thursday
FOR THREE DAYS

SIR JOHN
MARTIN HARVEY

AND HIS LONDON COMPANY

 

A. PUBLICOVER

2 Shops
LORD NELSON HOTEL

and
23 SPRING GARDEN RD.
CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College
SERVICE—Always experienced
Barbers at your service
Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies at
23 Spring Garden Road

eeeetaret diet deena ieee et

Get Your

Hair Cut
Shield’s Barber Shops

Two Shops

41 Sackville St. and Roy Bldg.
[5th floor]

Our Roy Building shop will
appeal to the ladies of Shirriff Hall.

m Phone S448 for appointment.
Open Saturday evenings.

 

 

 

 

i i i i-inr tee mnt iinet ent lia

 

at

28} Spring Garden Road

Is The College Student’s Shoe Store.
Our Low Prices make our

high quality Shoes doubly

attractive to both men and
women.

et el

The nearest Shoe store to the
llege

el Ey

  

T

LIMITED

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street
and Bedford

et 9 es es et Et OE a
SSS SS —__aAa =? ea eet

 

 

Men’s

Eatonia Suits

 

|
2 oP ©

| MULTIGRAPHING
DIRECT MAIL
ADVERTISING
BLANK PAPER
ENVELOPES

NOVA PRINT,\_fD

227-229 HOLLIS STREET
We Keep Delivery Promises

 

 

      

 

$25.00

Fine tailored suits for business
and every day wear. OF all
wool material in navy und plain

Sizes 35t044. Suit P2D600

Eatons Main Floor

 

Men’s
Eatonia Hats

$5.00

he popular derby hats in new
smart shapes, well proportioned.
Of fine quality fur felt silk lined

pa. 2 55.00

enn tirtceaenaen ciiiienireen nc pe ee a eee
Se etree ecg pense Aenean ene: Diieeennensttt ieee Aileen Miemensnasatelik dees cee Sieee ae

Eatons Main Floor.

EATON C°

"MARITIMES LIMITED

SSS SSS Ss aS

{
5
“
4
{

 
