 

—

. ree ee a :
aaa Pd concider ms ate

 

      

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

  
  

- OUR AIM IS

|| TO GIVE LIGHT

        
  

      
  
 
 

EE e

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 5bru, 1929.

see

a

No. 5

 

aol

 

SERVICES HOLD TIGERS TO DRAW

__ TRACK TEAM CARRIES OFF AGGREGATE" Use: Dope inane
Local Athletes Show Rare |They Came --- They Saw and Against Dalhousie
Form to Win Lunenburg Returned to Wolfville.

Art Sutherland scores only try for Collegians--| Indoor Track Meet Dalhousie Acadia Game Featured by Brilliant

Dribbling by Services feature of contest-Acadia wins from Wanderers.
; | , Plays--Supremacy of Gold and Black
ef Muir, Zinck, Miller and Miss Williams Win instilled in Fans.
pe , Events to Secure Club Aggregate.

 

   

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

| The Dalhousie Tigers passed up a
wonderful opportunity to cinch the
City League title on Saturday after
 

Grad. Undergoes
| reads Ai Hermits SerChange of Heart. > 20, 20s fe

pha os By A hardworking Army and Navy
aggregation, a slippery ball, a wet
held and an apparent listlessness on
the part of the Gold and Black are
contributed to the final result of the

 

 

  
    
   
  
   
 
 

Dal-Acadia|fought desperately on Acadia’s five
yard line, till the alert Eddie Ross
grabbed the ball and plunged over for
those first three points which brought

The much looked for
game is now past history and one
burning question of long standing has

 

 

A conscience is a terrible thing.
On Wednesday of last week Ian Fraser,
secy. Treas. of the D. A. A. C. received

   
   
   
    
 

Dalhousie athletes carried off the
club aggregate in the Lunenburg

Special Edition

 

‘i Arena Thursday night. They scored ° ; 1 t oIntS W a letter enclosing a twenty-five cent

* : ; jeer : ly x acisively 2 fered |the at ‘. rhe °" The ; : 5 t 3

| heavily in both men’s and women’s Next J riday 4 definitely and decisively answered | the stands to their feet? Then that|note with a message attached, which came er ae

Ps events. Jimmy Muir won the half for in the minds of those four or five|place kick of Rolph Grants which|read as follows:—Went in with a Not until after the final whistle

had been heard did the players realize
that a win Saturday might have given
them the league championship, and

added another three points to Dal’s
side of the Llack-board—could anything
have been done more perfectly? Again

thousand rugby fans who witnessed
the game, and in the opinion of those
other thousands of football followers

Dal ticket paying 25c. Am a graduate
so suppose they were to pay 50c. at the
Acadia-Dal game."'

mile; Murray Zinck was second in
the 220 and 440; Helen Williams was
second in the 220; the Dal team won

On Friday of this week the Gazette will publish a special Co-}.
Educational issue. Many articles

two’ relays; Ralph Miller won the|}| depicting this phrase of Univer- who read the sundry accounts of the| just before the fifiish of the first half,] Again we say a conscience is qa} hen word was received from Wolfhigh jump. sity life will eae ° game, not the least doubt remains/there was that pretty half tine run] terrible thing but happy are they who ville stating that Acadia had trounced
‘Coach W. E. Stirling of the Dal All ganésiisckiowns tos thife rian | 125: £0 which team is the better... The | which was crowned with success when | are able to releive it by parting with the Wanderers the result seemed just

 

that much more regrettable.

Prior to the game Dalhousie supporters were unanimous in agreeing that
it was just a matter of time. Many
wagers were placed on whether Dal
would pile up thirty points or not
but shortly after the game had started

Dalhousie Tigers proved, beyond the| Harvie Sutheriand placed the ball
shadow of a doubt, that they are} behind Acadia’s line and the gallant
superior to any team which the Valley | attempt to convert which failed by
College is able to pitch against them.|sheer hard luck. Then, during te

Everyone is quite willing to admit/second half there was that tackle by
that Acadia have a team of which} Harvie Sutherland which frustrated
they may well be proud, but even the| the speedy Eville’s attempt to score,
most ardent ‘‘Acadian’’ who ever | and last but not least, Howie Ryan (our

- track team was pleased with the showng of his athletes. He also coached
ss Kay Rands, who won the 50 and Josie
 _Laba, who was second in the event.
- Dalhousie was without George Irvine, George Armstrong and Algy.
Brittain, three sure point winners,

ber must be in the editors hands the small sum of twenty-five cents.

by tomorrow night.

 

 

Seniors Mix with

Dentals Form Lower Classes

 

    
  

~~

 

pee
pars

m4

who were unable to make the trip.

—

 

_ Holds Meeting

The Students Council held
third meeting of the year on Tuesday
e ening in the Munro room, presiient
Fred Jennings in tne chair. The
mi utes wer read and a_ proved, and
then some communications were brou‘g t before the meeting. The president
of the Students’ Council at U.N. B.
wrote of their Council’s aim to publish
a handbook and asked that a copy of

Students 5 Council

 
  

their

Fraternity

The Psi Omega International Dental Fraternity have organized a chapter at Dalhousie.

On Monday evening of last week, at
a dinner held at the Queen Hote! the
new chapter was officially inaugurated.

Dr. H.°S. Smith, the chief recorder
of the Supreme Council officiated at
the gathering and conducted the
various rituals.

Ross Harrington, Senior Dental Student was elected to the office ofGrand
Master, Robert Dinsmore was elected
Secretary and Erwin Taylor, Junior
Master.

Three of the city practitioneers, who

burst forth with a “whis-key—we-wah"’
would ‘certainly have severe conscience
trouble if he still persisted in stating!
that Acaclia’s team is a match for Dal

Looking back at the game makes
every true Dalhousian’s heart beat
just a little faster. Will anyone ever

forget that first five minutes of play—

forget how fifteen determined Tigers

plucky little adversary) ran seventy
five yards for one of the finest scores

ever made on the Dai Campus.

All in all, it was a game of brilliant
plays and heady football and whowill
not admit that the best team won?

“They came, they saw and—it has
been reported that they left at approx|imate.y 9.05.”

 

N.S. T. A. Supporters Victorious In Debate On Liquor

  

held in room 3

at noon of last Thursday.
of holding a class party with
Juniors and Sophs was brought up and
the meeting decided in favour of it
if it could be arranged. It was suggested that it be held at Shirreff Hail if
possible. -The question as to whether
or not invitations should only be issued
to paid-up members for the JuniorSenior dance was brought before the
meeting and a lenhgty discussion followed. The usual discussion on the
matter of class dues followed after
which the meeting adjourned.

 

 
 
  

A meeting of the Senior class was
of the Arts building
The matter
the

things began to look dark for the
collegians. The Service men by their
long kicks into touch and their persistent dribbling served to completely
disorganize their striped adversaries.

The. bewildered fans became hopeful
when Art Sutherland scored from a
scrum on the Navy twenty-five yard
line, but the failure to convert and a
try for the Services soon proved to
them that the outlook like the day was
becoming darker.

In the second stanza with the Dalhousie stand howling and pleading for
a score, the Tigers renewed their efforts
to enlarge the count and for a short
time it looked as if they would go over
from the ten yard line, but a free kick
relieved the situation for the Armyites,

the excellent Freshman handbook of]... stumni members of Psi Omeg: 8 B b b li S Saal tee perp be aS

oy Z a »mbers si Omega and from then on territorial play was
Dalhousie be sent, one piacesren, fon assisted Dr; Smith, they were Drs. Question at Sodales as et a farts about even, long punting by both
their own. It was decided that a} prennigar, Oxner and Dowell. : anes teams featuring the play for the rest

copy be sent to them. Permission was
given to the Dents to hold a smoker
in the Munro room on Wednesday,
Nov. 6th.

The fir t real item of business was
the granting of some money for the
upkeep of the Memorial flower-bed in
front of the Forrest Building.

The most important question of the
evening was the matter of appointing

 

 

Shirriff Hall Wise
. Kracks

Why does Marg. Mackie take the
quarter to nine Dingle every Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday mornings?
There must be something more than

Junior Speakers Convince Enthusiastic Gathering
of Splendid Possibilities Under Present System

The Sodales meeting held in the
Munro Room on Wednesday, October
30th, was one which was most opportunely arranged, having regard both

 

of the affirmative by showing that the
N.S. T. A. had-been on trial for several
years and has failed, resulting in bootlegging, bad liquor, the use of narcotics,

 

The Inter-class series of Basketball
games began last Thursday night in the
Gym when a Junior-Senior team played
the Sophomores. The Gym schedule,
which will be posted soon, allots Tuesday and Thursday nights to the girls.
There will be Basketball, Badminton
and Gym Classes both nights. Beginners’ Basketball will start at nine
o'clock.

 

 

of the fixture.

Altho the collegians did not play up
to their usual form the Services are
deserving of credit for their splendid
showing. They entered the game with
two of their intermediate players who
had just come off of the field and in
their crippled condition they displayed
a brand of ball which was entirely in

4a | meets the eye. Suu “ keeping with the condition of the field

~the staff for the Year Book. It was : egal cies 3 in thence. Phas as pitts) qed 5 oh tia aah prs. 2 , MEX

Bee Pe a ot dak ese oF the Tt hae been rumored abroad that one es eee the spencer ae ose ae a ‘Chass fener & _ en- and which seemed to completely baffle
of the lofty seniors has been wearing a| W290 Chose the subject for debate ex- | lorcement. soOvernment Control was the league leading Tigers.

Council act in conjunction with two
past editors of the Year Book, and then
submit to the Council names of men
who would be suitable for the pos.t.on
The Council will then pass its judg
 

night-cap. Nuff said.

Captain Merriam, Corporal Grant,
and Private Nelson held a conference
the other evening as to the best means

 

hibited good taste in the matter; especially in the light of the result of the
plebiscite which was held the day
after the debate. The resulution read
as follows:—‘‘Resolved that the In
as any other
remove the
to the provpresent un
as much. for temperance
system; it also would
bootlegger, give revenue
ince and eliminate the
desirable restraints upon the liberty of

Teams Draw

Medicine and Arts battled to a three
all draw on Tuesday in one of the most

 

aie eee et Sones te
“Remember when we first met in
the revolving door at the postoffice?’’
“That wasn't the first time we met.’’

, ment as. to whom would be the best ee delet ey af weer peace Perdtceinn GE a Spotenr’ of Government | the subject closely contested games of | the year. | ow ell, that's when we began going
} man. The business manager will be | that Private Nelson should have charge | - Mcoholic 1; Pa” tp Ritna’ Maes Craek ha BHAT Goonies Meds looked like sure winners by | around together.'’—Sou’wester.
). Cee thy eit tale iad her. of the hose, and that Corporal Grant | Control of Alcoholic Liquor would be} Miss Mary Crocker, the fina speaker | virtue of their 3-0 lead which they a as tee
; _ The meeting then adjourned, anomie Urcaic the windows... Nay, they )™ fo mea eee in ale u me Om ieee ine ee vi acquired in the first half when young The Ground Hockey team elected
D. M. Arts ’31. | be successful. ee ee eee ates eee ee ee ar Ns eke | NE! ANE wy eve,| Lale Brody scored on a_ beautiful| their new manager, Mary Chirgwin,
One night the Senior on duty was| Howse, President of Sodales, in the| government only wanted the new sys- penalty kick, but Arts came back|and have had a practice game with the
\ startled by the loud pealing of the chatr. The Fes eee) Seppe read by oe ce eee i ecace Le eee: strong in the last few minutes of play,|L. C. girls which resulted in a tie
Rally—They call him Angus. Yes, |door-bell. On opening the door, she oe. ae . SEC eee MS a a ‘ Peeoce tenet when they collected. a ioose ball on|one-all.
: his brother Stanley is a priest in Judi-| found three men, who at once demanded etna the ate DERIE a ie ee Pou. eK a Ritacck es their five yard line and plunged over Fencing classes will start this week.
RS que, C.B. I hope so, we may be there|three women. Evidently cave man] DuSsiness, the : RES re SOC HEeS Che facilit EHe Bee tis Oey aA Eee Ea to tie the count. under the supervision of Mr. Stirling.
fi together. stuff has not gone out of style. speakers for the evening. Pine . acl ee - SO get aa wou!ld oat vac
. The Senior glass was represented | for the younger generation. The social {| —————__________ Se alesse ia ee a
by Mr. Richard Donahoe, and Miss}and moral standard would be lowered;
" e. * T. c C fid Margaret Jubien, while the Juniors|and further the bootlegger would still Dr. MacMechan Urges Students to
a Officials of C. O. ° 2 ony;rt ent were supported by Mr. John Y. Mac- ee us. 7 Hea E . i,
ie © Donald, and Miss Mary Crocker. <ach team was then accorded the At d A t D E
) of Banner Year for Dalhousie : — ee epsesed bey into the ervilege at 2 rebnteat in which they ten rmtstice ay xercises
debate, and the speeches were ex-| distinguished themselves. _ I G °
Unit cellent, showing “careful preparation Dean Sydney Smith, Dr. George n ymnastum
in. ¢ and convincing arguments. Wilson, and Professor Mercer, the wekery. 7) Bet 8
a Mr. Donahoe opened for the affir-| judges for the debate retired and gave
ey Everything poimts to a big year for) mon end, and also derives no small{mative. He pointed out the _im-]a decision in favour of the negative by Last year, the Senate instituted a)ture, death, and then be forgotten—
s the Dalhousie unit of C. O. T. C.,| bebefit from -the physical training] possibility of enforcing a Prohibition |a vote of two to one. brief memorial service in honor of the | forgotten in the very college to which
a and in the words of Major J. 5. Roper, | incorporated in his drill movements.} Act in Nova Scotia due to the lack of rhe floor was thrown open and many | sixty Dalhousians who laid down their} your death has brought enduring
i officer commanding the unit, and} He is paid for the parades he attends,| public support, and termed such an] availed tnemselves of the opportunity | lives in the World War. In spite of |honor—that is hard indeed. Is it
“ae himself an old Dalhousian—‘We're}and his uniform is provided gratis.}act as the N. S. T. A. an attempt to|to express their views on the subject. | much adverse criticism it was a success. | too great a sacrifice of time and in"going to have some good times to-|) The opportunity for rifle shooting is] prevent free will. It created a dis-]Among these who spoke from the/ It was well attended, it was sincere, | clination to devote half an hour out of
oe gether.’ This in the course of ajopen tofhim. To develop a man]regard for law. Mr. Donahoe cited | floor were:—Messrs. Piggot, V. Oland,|it was impressive. This year, as be-| the academic year to remembrance of
| a short address, following the contingent |through our C. O. T. C. who could|the conditions of the United States] Don Grant, H. Kennedy, Ganesh | fore, it will be held on the right day | our heroic dead
+ first parade which took place Wednes-|imitate to even a partial degree the | toillustrate this point. Sawh, Ben Guss, R. Levy, F. MacIn-|and the right hour, November eleventh | At the Reunion last summer mem2 ae day last in the gym. A good turn-| performance of such a shot as Lieut. Mr, MacDonald then presented the] tyre, K. Smith, A. Nickerson, R. Copp.|at eleven o'clock. It will last half an|orial tablets were dedicated and have
out marked this organization parade, Desmond Burke would result in con-| case for the N.S. T. A. by contending Enerst Howse, President, then ren-|hour. The chief features will be a been placed in the vestibule of the
but the desired strength of one hun-|siderable credit to “Our College by|that prohibition was the more effec-|dered the jucae decision in due | brief address by the Rev. W. H. Clarke | Macdonald Memorial Library. There
a dred and twenty awaits the influx of | the Sea.” tive means of promoting temperance. | course—‘‘and without delay,” follow-}and the reading of our roll of honour | the names may be read of those who
a ia? new recruits. f Both systems find their basis in moral-|ing which, the meeting adjourned. by the President. It will be held in| died that we might live free. Some
apm The history of C.O. T. C.isarecord| Adjutant George Mahon announced |ity and the difference is one of degree| This debate was one of the most|/the gymnasium. All should be in) one said that if they had lived they
: ee _ of useful service and beneficial training. | arrangements complete for a practice|only. Because the N.S. T. A. was not} successful this year due partially to| their places at five minutes to the hour,| would now be approacning middle
SS Every large university boasts its Offi|shoot at Bedford Range on Friday,| always enforced was not an argument|two reasons. It was the first of the|in order that the two minuted silence age. The War is growing so remote.
____ ¢ers' Training Corps, which is an active | Oct. 25th., the trip to be made by car. | for Government Control, because every | trials for the Bennet Trophy between | may be fitly observed. But Bunyan’s words are true—
ree thriving group, and a credit to its|On Sunday, the 27th. the Intercollegiate|law is infracted. A greater measure the various classes; and also it was the Dulce et decorum est pro palri mori They shall not grow old as we that
——-s university. Match would have to be fired due to]of drunkeness to secure a conviction | very problem upon which the people| that decoration tag has done duty in | are left grow old:

    
 

a

_ ~~ “Camararderie’ is the key-note of

the organization. Learning coordinate group movement at their weekly

ince, the individuals learn the
ssity of ‘‘team-work.” The offiin-training profits by this contact
his fellows in working for a comar + :

   
    
   
   

shortness of available time. Things
were provided on a big scale for the
firing of this match—tje O. T. C.
having for its private use one of the
Government boats, which would take
them to MacNab's Island for a day's
real outing at the ranges there.

   

* 
under Government Control would be
required than under the N. S. T. A.
Mr. MacDonald concluded by stating
that the government ‘only wanted a
Government Control system for the
purpose of obtaining revenue.

Miss Jubien then came to the support

of Nova Scotia were voting, the followng day.

The Freshie-Soph debate will he
held in two weeks time and another
equally interesting session of Sodales
is anticipated.

KK, S.5,

many a soldier’s eiptaph. It was
contradicted by one poet in the War.

“Oh, young and brave, it is not
sweet to die’. Not in the plenitude
of youth and vigor with all your life
before you. But to suffer everything,
privation, fear, ghastly wounds, tor
Age shall not weary them, not yhe

years condemn

At the going down of the sun and in
the morning

We will remember them.

ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN

   

 

 

 
  
  
     
   
 
   
    
   
  
 
     

roe tit SRE aR. SOS =
Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in’America.”
a 275 ae A E itor. Managing Editor.
. GEO, K, MACINTOSH, B. SC. RALPH S. MORTON, B. A.
Ba). an Hm Phas Sar 8351.’ Phone Sac, 804.
= ones vie News Editors.
nae _-W. GRAHAM ALLEN.
Ree | ARTHUR PATILLO Bees. see 7 KEN. SMITH.
sit ea ee VANCE FRASER. |
se 4, Society and Girls’ Sport Sport Editor.
HELEN C, WILLIAMS. P. A, OYLER.
a gid |
; eae Sa : Associate Editors.

MADELEINE PAGE, B. A.

rst Business Manager. Asst. Business Manager.

_—'§, W. ARCHIBALD.

 

HAM) J. R. DONAHUE.
Phone L, 2291, Phone Sac. 4086].
ee te Subscription Rate $1.50 per year.
Be Gazette Phone Sack. 4866.
+ ea at i x Fr. ,
te tees, IT WAS DALHOUSIE’S DAY.

4 i aying before over four thousand excited fans, including

every man, woman and child connected with the University, the
______ Dalhousie Tigers demonstrated on October 26th, to all and sundry
ore that the Gold and Black is a team to conjure with in any football

Wes “@}
a ©

ss season. |

ae a, |
‘pt

-~——~—s Our players dominated in every phase of the game. In-—_—s stigated by the superhuman accomplishments of our hard working
forwards, the backfield displayed an exhibition of aggressiveness
seldom witnessed in Maritime Rugby circles.

. The Studley campus on that day, was the cynosure ofmany
___ eyes. The graduates were..eager to see how the 1929 squad com_____ pared in “home games” with the teams of former years. Football
moguls throughout the Maritimes centered their atter tion on the

=e

5 €
2 ;
7 -—
Ji = >
F<= 7

   
  
   
   
   
    
     
     
  
   
 
   
  
    
 
   
   
     
  
  
    
 
  
 
    
       
   
    
  
 

| ~ contest in an effort to predict this year’s title holders.
' at

-,

_~—~———s Local interest was stimulated by the unsatisfactory outcome of

Pore | the previous game between these Universities and the subsequent
| controversy which resulted.

Many predictions were made regarding the result, some ad
__—_—_—-verse some favorable, but to everyone, our team showed that it was
imbued with the fighting spirit that characterized the league
___ winners of old.

i ta oe

- le
4
va t a

 

ON DISTASTEFUL SUBJECTS
ee. Se | fom M |
Commenting on the dissatisfaction which is so often mani
b. fested By ecregceiiate students when they arecompelled to take
subjects which do not appeal to them, one of our exchanges states
F a rp i. ae as follows:— - , - 4 n+ ‘ , = 1

| i There is undoubtedly a large number of students this

 -year as in other years who are dissatisfied with the courses
they are required to take in order to obtain a degree in the
_-—s- Faculty of Arts. Some complain that it works hardship for
_-——s them to take a science subject; others urge the elimination of
_ dead’? elanguages from the curriculum, while some would
—  ——-—s would have no other ianguage than English taught.
ae Well, what of it? Where will one find himself in a
position during life in which he is abletodo only the things he
wants todo? Students who have experience with summer jobs
know that there are certain parts of their work that they find
irksome and distasteful. They do not go to their employers
and outline what parts of their job they desire to continue to do.
eT They either do the work as it is assigned, or get out. The
latter aliernative is open to students in the Faculty of Arts who
find cerlain compulsory subjects overwhelmingly distasteful
to them,

‘This situation is found in, not only the Arts Faculty but in all
- other faculties as well.
ws Many of our courses contain subjects which seem at first to
noe Ee errs and unjustifiable but eventually their true worth is
Paty ized. |
An extra subject or two is lucrative to both the student and
the University treasury.

gs nate
, *

 

-- COLLEGE SPIRIT AT LAST.

: The large and enthusiastic response to the call for students
to attenda “‘pep’”’ meeting recently, was surely a revelation to those
ne the idiosyncrasies peculiar to our students in former

_ days.

In recent years we have devoted much time and space to the
laudation of the college spirit which existed within the college walls.

Whether we employ the term ‘College Spirit” or better still,
“A growing interest in University activities” all will agree that
this year we have a display of interest which entirely overshadows
that exhibited in former years.

With all due respect to the members of our football team, the
voluntary turning out of seven hundred students to a combined
reception and pep rally would have sounded incredible even last
year.

This year with the reception and rally the oneincentive, over

_ seventy-five percent of the undergraduates met in the gymnasium

to show their loyalty to the team. members and to prepare for a

_ Unversity victory over the Wolfville rivals

 

a: It’s simply wonderful, and let’s do all we can to keep it up
. | until next May at least.
Hie 6 HELP THOSE WHO HELP YOU.

Many readers of the Gazette are unaware of the fact that the
publication of this paper in its present form is made possible largely
ey the generous support of our advertisers. _

The co-operation given by the firms and establishments which
__use our columns as an advertising medium, incurs a responsibility
_ upon the student of the University.

Fortunately it is an easy matter for us to shoulder the re
sponsibility. We have among our clients, those who are leaders
in their particular lines and it is therefore to our advantage to

me

he I ‘
5 Ns : 4
4 ' “ oa
. \ P - J -* ’ 7
1 | | ‘
| 7 +
7 a 3 : *

. at i ’ 7
SO ge Se ee
i : a. iitok Nas yp

\

  

   

 
   

43 : /
i ¥

J a 5 = he
Pie gi ss

 

NEWS and VIEWS
| FROM OTHER U’S

By Intercollegiate Press

 

By Intercollegiate Press.
An Idea for the Fredericton Trip.

South Bend, Indiana—(1P)—Notre
Dame football players, absent from
college on footbail trips, will no longer
miss their Sunday services, A chapel
has been added to the travelling equipment of the squad. It is ‘‘the Traveling Church,” built some time ago tor
the Baltimore and Ohio Kaiiroad for
use of the road's eccisiastical guests.
Notre Dame has already made use of
it this year. in the tuture a piiest
will accompany the team and by special
permission wil hold services in the
chapel car.

Class ’33 Note.

Philadelphia, Pa.—(IP)—“‘Nickle
nursers’’ may aptly be substituted for
“frosh” as the cognomen tor the treshman co-eds at the University of Pennsylvania this year.

Under ruites laid down by the sophomores the first year girls must constantly have at least three nickles on hand
a pay fines for breaking freshman
rules,

Studen Killed

Bryan, Texas—(IP) —Allen P. Rowell, junion at Texas A, & M. College,
was killed recently when the airplane
in which he was riding crashed neae
his home at Centreville, Texas. Thr
accident happened on Powell's twentyfirst birthday,

in Plane Crash.

**Financial’’ Football in the U. S.

Salem, Mass.—(IP)—The “Salem

Trade School” will never iose another
football game, nor will it ever win one
again, As a matter of fact it never
has won a game, for there isn’t any such
school. But here’s the low-down:
_ Six years ago Ritchie Ray King,
itching to take unto himseif some otf
that whicn is called filthy lucre, organized a footbali team, created the mythical “Salem Trade School’’ tor the
team to play for, and proceeded to sig
up high schoot games ail over New
England.

“For the sake of dear of Siwash”
quothe Kitchie Ray King, “faculty
manager,’’ ‘‘don’t you boys dare win a
tootbail game. If you do you're fired.”

The pian was a success. High School
coaches throughout this part of the
country were overjoyed every time
their boys played the “Salem Trade
school.” Ihe Trade School line had
holes in it a mile wide, and if the
opposing team couldn’t make such a
ho.e, the Trade School buys made it
for them. High School fans always
turned out to see the games, because
they knew the home town boys would
win,

This brought gate receipts, and
Salem’s Trade School received its
share thereof. In the joy of victory,
no high school official thought to investigate the gridders from Salem.

Then some school principal wanted
to play the Salem team on its home
field, the result was an exposure. Now
several New England High Schools
are looking for games to ful open dates
on their 1929 schedwies.

Meanwhile, the eleven youths on
the Trade School team have pocketed
considerable money on the gridiron,

At ‘Whit’? McDonald’s Old College.

_ Washington, Pa.—(IP)—A fourteeninch Dirigoid cup is to be awarded the
best high school weekly in the United
States by the Red and Black, Washington and Jefferson coliege weekly, in
celebration of its twentieth anniyersary. The contests is opened to all
high school and preparatory schools
in the United States,

Why not one for Archie’s Museum?

Philadelphia, Pa.—(IP)—A rare helmet, richly carved and uighly painted
tike a shark’s head, has just been given
the University of Pennsylvania Museum, The helmet was discovered
in Tingit Indian country of Azaska.
The helmet was made at least 300
years ago out of a heavy walrus hide.

A Close Shave for a Senior.

Oberlin, Ohio—(IP)—A trip through
the heart of the Russo-Chinese was
zone on the last train run over the
Chinese Eastern Railway, in company
with a Chinese professor, was the
experience last summer of Everette
D. Hawkins, of New Orleans, a senior
at Oberlin College, who has just retruned from two years as the representative of the Oberlin student body at
Oberlin’s School in Shansi Province,
China,

With Hawkins on the hazardous
journey was Professor Ke Ming Wu,
of Shansi, who has come to Oberlin to
take up graduate study in the chemistry department here.

 

MEE--O--W.,

During the past few days, many of
the dormitory men have found a white
feline specimen in the form of a cat,
ae it rested comfortably on the

d, The cat was located in rooms
in both the new and the old dormitories
leaving its innumerable hairs upon the
clothing, covers, and other points of
contact on which it found unmolested
tranquility. After being ousted a
number of times it found pleasure in
walking around the fifth floor ledge of
the new dormitories, hunting refreshments and a warm room.

—Vueen’s Journal.

 

ay a ee
. 1

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SS

“Gazette”’ Writer Tells Of

me a

ee

Beautiful Additions
To Campus

Feature Writer Interviews Architect Who Designed
‘‘The Kings Group” and Archives Building.

Coilege is essentially a workshop,
wherein every man has to fashion his
own character, No matter what material he choses, he must put to it his
own strokes; no one can carve out his
individuality tor him. Some _ chose
putty; it is so easily moulded, it gives
the sculptor iittle troube, and it
eliminates the necessity of making one’s
own decisions in lite. Others work
in iron, which, once forged, never
changes again but by its iack of adaptabLity makes lite’s knocks com ehard.
Some sternly build for themselves
characters ot ice, holding cynically
aloot trom the everyday human warmtn
of enthusiasm; this material, however,
is apt to melt at a crucial moment,
Undoubtedly the best material trom
which to hew a good, substantial character is that typified by the college
building themselves, namely Stone.
It takes more time, more patience,
more dogged perseverance, the sculptor often giows weary or gets hurt at
work, but in the end he has wrought
something worth-while, a character
that will stand rough weather, stormy
winds and the wearing hand of Time,
and yet it is softened and mellowed by
the passing of years.

They symbolism of strong, beautiful
buildings and characters is very powertuily brought home to those who are at
Daihousie this year. While they are
building up their individuaity, around
them the Campus presents a busy scene.
Dalhousians are watching the slow,
sure erection ot edifices, built in stone,
that will stand proudly before the
world, when ali the students who watched their growth will have graduated
from Life’s University. The buidings
are the Wardens of the Honour of the
Colege, and that honour is the :iving
edifice, that is built up with the characters fashiioned by each man as he passes
through,

“The buildings are to be a source ol
inspiration to the Student Body”
said Mr. Andrew R. Cobb, Mr. Cobb
is the architect under whose skillful
and artistic direction the work of
construction is going ahead. ‘The

Kings’ Group,’ he continued, ‘‘em
bodies the spirit and traditions of the
old King’s College at Windsor, and
at the same time imparts a true feeling
of the undying vitality of coliege life.’’

The architecture of the new buildings

is Georgian, a style remarkable for its| entertain a few visitors.

strength, dignity and simplicity. The
rugged, grey stone gives a sense of
security, of vigour and permanence,
while the interior represents harmony
beauty and comfort, in an atmosphere
of friendliness and sociability. Kkvery
phase of college tite is given opportunity
to develop. The beautiful chapel,
with its bell, sounds the keynote otf
daily existence; the reception and dining rooms speak of hospitality; the
Hatiburton Room carries on the literary and fun-ioving traditions of the
well-loved “Sam olick.’’ There are
suites for members of the facuity, while
cozy rooms accomodate the undergraduates. The ensembie forms one
of the few strongholds of good old
English university life in America.

Speaking of the Provincial Archives
Building, Mr. Cobb stated that it is
“absolutely unburnable.”’” This building, which is a unit of the Dalhousie
group, is also Georgian, and it does not
sacrifice one iota of beauty to its remarkable utility. ‘It is one of the
finest pieces of construction in Canada,
said the architect. ‘There is not a
splinter of wood, no a single nail, in
the whole building. Even the sashes
and banisters are made of steel, riveted
to the stone-work. Another wondertul feature is its protection against
dampness. The basement is eighteen
inches above grade. Of course the
heating apparatus is below the basement, but it is entirely cut off from the
document rooms.” The very

| College Briefs

November 5th, 1929

neal ee

Paul Improving

The many friends of Paul Sullivan
(Eng. "30, Rifle Club Captain) will be
pleased to learn that he is greatly
improved in health. Paul is confined
to the Halifax Infirmary, and no doubt
would be glad to have any of the boys
drop in to see him.

Sonority Tea.

The Sigma Theta Pi sorority held a
very delightful tea party at Ruth
MacAulay’s home, Coburg Road, on
Monday afternoon, Peg Sproul, together with Ruth were very charming
hostesses. The tea was given to
The committee in charge consisted of Marion
MacIntosh, Margaret Mackie and Ruth
MacAulay. Not to them alone was
the success of the party due but also t
Mrs. MacAulay—to whom Sigma Thetas wish to express their gratitude.

The Boilermakers’ Ball.

Don’t forget to get your tickets to
the Boilermaker’s Ball early. There
is only to be a limited supply on sale.
This is always the dance of the year
and this is to be no exception. Don’t
forget the date, Nov. 7, the time 9-2,
the place, Lord Nelson Hotel, the
music, Joe Mill’s Orchestra—Nuff said.

Held Delightful Tea.

The Kappa Beta Pi sorority held a
delightful afternoon tea at their room
on Morris Street, Sunday, Oct. 27th.

 

CRIMES 47.

_Senior: “I’m going to marry a pretty
girl and a good cook,”’

Soph: ‘“Youcan’t, That's bigamy.’’

 

GOWNS.
Gowns
On
Seniors
Are quite alright.
But gowns on
Juniors

latest | Are not.

equipment will provide for the arrange- | Just think of
ment and preservation of the treasures | It,

to be contained in the building. With
the completion of this modern edifice,
Nova Scotia is assured that the priceless heritage of her history will never
be lost, and Dalhousie will teel a greater

interest and responsibility towards
Archives that are ‘in residence,”
Pis+ Whe. FB,

  

| THE MOUTHPIECE

Dear Sir—

Conspicuous in your last issue was
the teature entitled ‘Pen Pictures Portraying Popular Profs,” supposedly
from tne clever pen of ‘One who knows.
The article certainly shows that "On
who knows” does not know his place.
‘“Snart Alec’’ would perhaps be a more
appropriate cloak for his crude witticisms. From beginning to end, the
“artist’s’’ object seems to be not to
produce a pen-portrait, but a distorted
picture, a cartoon, ‘The result by no
means assists the undergraduates to
become ‘‘better acquainted with a
member of the Faculty,’’ but puts
before them a caricature, something at
which they can, and are expected to
laugh. In other words, it leaves an
entirely talse impression of one whom
the writer professes to honour as the
Senior Protessor. The impression is
false in that it is inadequate; it concludes a few trivial and impertinent
details and passes over the reputation,
the spirit, and the dominant personality of the man,

It is apparent also that “One who
knows” is ignorant of that early impressed and fundamental truth that
‘Personal remarks are never in good
taste.” It is to be hoped that the
forthcoming ‘‘Pen Pictures” will give
real characterization of the man and
play less to the galiery.

Thanking you,

Yours respectfully,

“ONE WHO KNOWS’—better.

Editor Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:

Congratulations on your Gazette
this year, You surely are adopting
a keen aggressiveness, which is indeed
pleasing to us, the student body. We
appreciate your efforts on our behalf.

The football edition and last Saturday’s special for the Dal-Acadia game
were surely appropriate,

The “pen pictures of the football
players” is a series worthy of mention
because it brings before us these outstanding men as perhaps we are unaccustomed to know them.

Paralleling this series is another
which I think is exceptionaily good.
The “Pen Pictures of Popular Profs.”
We who sit under these gentleman are
perhaps inclined to associate them only
with the dispensing of their knowledge
in the class room and to regard them as
made of such stern stuff that they are
inaccessable to contact with the ordinary undergraduate.

How pleasing it is therefore to see
their extra-curricular activities so well

rtrayed in such a genial vein, It

rings to us some idea of the many

sidedness of a professors life and, | am
sure, engenders in our minds an appreciation of the varied nature of their
undertakings.

I trust that you wili be able to obtain
many more of these sketches from ‘‘one
who knows,”

Your College Briefs’ must be interesting too, to recent graduates and

 

I know they wiil help swell your subscription numbers.

Keep it up—and the Gazette too will
have it’s banner year.

Sincerely,
A READER,

FOOTBALL AGAIN.

Prague, Czechoslovakia—(I P)—If
American coilege students are the
objects of criticism. because they place
too much apparent importance on
football games, they may point their
critics to Central Europe, where the
winning of international football contests has become second in the importance to the honor of the various countries only to that of winning military
scraps,

According to the outlook of the
Czechoslovakian press, if this nation
loses its football game with Hungary,
the future of the nation is lost.

Similar interest in an international
footbali game was experienced last
year when Austria beat Italy in a game
at Vienna, and the Italian press was so
outraged at the loss, that it almost
seriously asked for a, military invasion
of the opponent’s territory,

One Prague newspaper recently shout
ed to the players, calling them individually by name:

“You footballers must realize the
great and honorable responsibility
which is yours of carrying our colors
in the greatest football match in our
history. Do not disappoint the hopes
of hundreds of thousands of Csechoslovaks who with tears of pride await
your victory.”

Nothing by which
To distinguish a Senior
From the common
Herd of Juniors, Sophs,
And Frosh.
Even the Sophs,
May get
The idea
Of wearing
Gowns and then
There’s no telling
Where the idea may end.
Imagine a college crowd
Clad in gowns,
It’s just not done
According to Hollywood.
Of course
The gowns afford
Protection in the Caf. and
They flutter nicely
In the wind, so
The first thing we know
The gir.s will abbreviate
Them.
Well, anyways if the
Frosh get going for gowns
We suggest bibs to match,
And bonnets in place of
Mortar-boards,
And rattles for ornamentation,
But, maybe, if they do wear
Gowns it may muffle
The
Sound
Of
That
Rancous, rowdy and
Frosh orchestra.

—From the

THE NEGATIVE.

Ubyssey.

 

Mary Dean—‘He fell in love with

her photograph and asked for the
original.”
Marjorie—‘What developed?”

_M. D.—"She gave him the negative.”’— Maroon and White.

 

NOT AT THE CASINO ANYWAY.

T-ll-y (to box-office girl) What have
you in the way of first floor seats?

Ticket agent: Nothing, but we
some nice posts in the way of balcony
seats.— Ex.

 

Frenchy—The words of the Marseillaise Hymn were written in 1792

—Queen’s Journal. | by Rouget de I'Isle.

 

 

Feeling Fit - 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

Thelgame is half won when you
can enter it with the zest and enthusiasm that comes from being
well equipped.

Make PHINNEY’S your headquarters
for College Sporting equipment, including the famous English regulation football togs

SPECIAL PRICES TO CLUBS

 
AR oa

7 i ‘ a “ e
7 oe ee eee my a
. a 5 ’
pn a alee |

x. ¢

Leon ar
Wesel.

 

! ORTRAYING
OPULAR
-ROFS

ae Howard Murray, McLeod Professor
of Classics and Head of the Classics
_ Department is the second ranking

member of Faculty.

-___ Howard’s Latin was for years the
despair of students in their First and
___ Second years.
wy _ A strict disciplinarian, the soft
caress of his voice preluded the death
_ gtroke.  O! those vowels

___ thongs____ Howard is of deadly accuracy with

| ie the quoit. He probably thinks of the

and dip
pin as a student and of the quoit as
the coldly logical ring within which
___ the poor student is caught.

ay. z For years, as Dean of the Faculty,
na Bpaowere has made straight the paths of
Tove such as Latin or Greek. He
labours for them as a father for his
~ cnildren,

|| His favourite sight is a noble haggis

'y
a

C

,
a
7
[
i

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

——— ——
 

 

of a Little College

ALL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR THIS DEPARTMENT MUST BE IN THE HANDS OF THE MANAGING EDITOR BEFORE THURS. OF EACH WEEK

Good Clean Fun for Young

and

Old.

 

(Alleged Joke Dept.)

 

Intercollegiate Press— Humor.

The electric lamp has found an infinite number of unexpected uses.

It enables us to postpone our spectacles for a few years longer.

It has made reading in bed infinitely
more comfortable.

By merely pushing the button we
have introduced the element of surprise in dealing with burglars.

The goblins that lived in dark corners and under the bed have been
driven back into the farthest retreats
of the night.

lt enables the doctor to peer into the

It substitutes for the hot water bottle
in aches and pains.

It enables our cities and towns to
clothe themselves in gayety by night,
no matter how sad their appearance
may be by day.

And by al! its multiple uses 1t has
lengthened the hours of our active

lives, decreased our

having traveled 27,000 miles around the
world in three months.

 

CLASS ’31 MEETING.

The Junior class held a meeting last
Tuesday to make final arrangements
for the class meeting to be held at the
Yacht Squadron on Friday Noy. 1.
In the absence of the president Mr.
Jost was in the chair, There was
much discussion regarding the rates
to be charged those attending the
party but the matter was finally settled
to the satisfaction of all. There
seems to be some misunderstanding
about the $1.00 fee being tried out
by the class this year. The main
object in having such a small fee was
to try and increase the paid-up membership of the class but to date it has
been a dismal failure. It seems inconceivable that fewer members should
pay $1.00 than $3.50, the rate charged

    

Introducing
ERNEST HOWSE

Efnie is this year the guiding star
of Sodales.§We know that he is preparing for Theology and consequently
has been on a mission field during his
summer vacation.

We also know that he has debated
for Dal on several occasions, and two
years ago he was one of the three members composing the debating team
which toured Canada and emerged
victorious in practically every occasion.

The worst that can be said of him
is that he comes from Newfoundland
and as is so often the case he plansto
return just when the cure is beginning
to take effect.

Talking is his chief vice, but unlike

STORIES
COMEDY
REVIEWS

 

AT LEAST HE GOT IT.

Havana, Cuba—Rafael Casado, Key
West laundryman, went a long way
to get his money. While waiting on
the P. & O. liner “Governor Cobb”
to be paid for iaundry he was de.ivering, Casado noticed that the boat
had cast off. He landed at Havana,
and is waiting there for the next P,
& QO. lines to take him back to Key
West with his money.

— Special to the Varsity.

 

Joe Artistic—Your idea of a cheering
squad .good but few people ever turn

out for such things.
JACK STAR.

—my choice
every time,
they are

borne in triumphal procession, to the a fears, replaced | jac} year. Yet such is the case. What |many speakers he can also listen when

_ skirl of the pipes, into a North British|the dark with good cheer, increased | ;, wrong with the class aystent- The loccasion . arises. He is. staving at blended right.
| i our safety, decreased our toil, and y : ; ying

tay Society banquet. y; : class should be the bond of unity be-|Pine Hill and likes Mrs. Marsters.

"4 / .
a His favourite haunt is the jolly
- little tent pitched on the grounds of
the ancient Studley Quoit Club,
a e} There are rumours of Continental
escapades, but these are vague.
e Howard is tolerant, benign—a kindly
old patrician. The modern Dalhousie
Bei ctl sees too little of him.

:
2»
ae

e

pe
os
a ie
U
t


P|.

4G. A. Mcdonald
|} ToBACONIST
, ? Smokers Requisites of every
B __ description
_ Acomplete stock of Domestic
ey and Imported
_ CIGARS, CIGARETTES

—_—_---ee————o

enabled us to read the type in the
telephone book.—President
Hoover at banquet
Edison at Dearborn.

Herbert
to Thomas A.

IP.

“Here, boy,” growled the tight-fisted
buyer of a newspaper, ‘what's the idea
of yelling ‘Great Swindle, sixty victims!’

“Great Swindle’’ shouted the newsboy, ‘Sixty-one victims.”

—Selected.

Voliva may have reached the conclusion that the world is flat after
trying to borrow a five-spot from a
college student around registration
time.— Marquette Tribune.

“T played a wonderful game of golf
this afternoon, and | feel like a god.”’
“Why don’t you finish the sentence?”

: ‘ : —Sou’wester

recesses of our insides.

“Didja take your date home last

tween the students yet only twenty
or so members are interested enough
to attend the meetings. The few that
pay their dues are prevented from
getting their money’s worth because
of the small sum in the class treasury.
Nor is class 81 the only class confronted with this difficulty. Each
year it is the same old story; the Sophs
and Juniors will not pay their class
fees. Students of class thirty-one,
this is your class, if you are not satisfied with the way class business is
carried on, come to the meetings and
air your views; do not stay outside
and complain and prevent the class
from raising funds to do things with.
Have the interest of the class at heart
Play up and play the game.

CHORAL SOCIETY MEETING.

The first meeting of the year was

He studies a lot but like all other theologues he takes Saturday night off for
making whoopee.
Suelsy Harris is his aide de camp in
Sodales and the two make a good team.
We are expecting a banner year in
Sodales Ernie. + Don’t let us down.

 

 

Questions and
Answers.

 

by Jack Star.

(This co,umn is conducted for the
benefit of the Gazette’s readers. All
are urged to make use of it. Questions
must be sent in not later than Wednesday noon),

 

 

   

 

 

ADVANCE NOTICE.
ADVICE TO GIRLS AND BOYS.

The ‘Gazette’ has succeeded at
last in obtaining the highly gifted
services of Miss Flowery Fis, who has
consented to publish answers to heart
problems. Miss Fix is a college graduate, having obtained High Honours in
Diplomacy and Alienation, so she is
speciaily fitted to receive confidences
and to render assistance in those
dilemmas which, alas! too frequently
shadow the happy existence of the
college student. Just address your
communication to Miss Fix, c/o the
“Gazette.”

and TOBACCOS night—” nel by the Choral Scoeity last Tues- poe Jack Star: CIGARETTES
g Rae ie ae “Naw, I left h th house.” | day evening at Shirreff Hall. About 1OW many senior team players were S x

ae A d Road BrP ee REE Oe Aa Pe Gr acrad thirty shuidente attended. It was de-|members of last year’s squad?—Fresh- SAVE THE “POKER HANDS

| 21 Spring Garden Roa cided for the present not to elect any |Man.

|| BUTTONS ON
_ |] RENTS MENDED

Drunk (lying on the sidewalk)—
“T’ll climb this wall if it rakes me all
night.”’

‘Clothes break the man.

Cullud Lady (at ticket window)—
Ah wants a ticket for Magnolia.

officers. After some discussion a committee was elected to interview Walter
MacKenzie, the president of Glee
Club to reach a decision as to whether
or not the Society would take part in
Glee Club Performances this year.
The committee is under the chairmanship of Charley Underwood, who has

Freshman—Twelve. H. F. Sutherland, G. MacLeod, W. S. Wooiner,
D. M. MacRae, C. F. Townsend, A. ..
Sutherland, A, V. Maxwell, C. M,
Jones, H. F. Townsend, F. Wishart
R. D. Baird and H. J. Davidson.

 

Dear Jack Star:

 

 

YELLOW CAB||| BJIRK S—

LIMITED

Fraternity Pins and} Class
Jewelry are smarter when

ay search)—Lady, where is Magnolia? Marjorie Dunsworth, and Howard] Valhousier Does he go around with e men.
eae: | HOLES DARNED C. L.—She’s settin’ on that bench| Kennedy. The conference was to be|anyone? —Freshette, Halifax Only Metered We have specialized in this

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

ovah theah.

No, dear frosh, the Intercollegiate
Press is not a college necking party.

held on Wednesday last.

 

Freshette—Yes, Mr. Rankine attended Dal for several years and his heart
has been taken.

Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.

field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

: Steely tt , | Dear Jack Star—
: sito Weating, joke); . Fancy is McGill’ More than two, 20 cents extra. DIAMOND MERCHANTS
VALETERIA eee Freee ores at this, Percy: ‘A chap here thinks that What is McGill’s slogan?—Pete. ee te net Halifax.

A new pressing Service:

Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c. or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES, cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.
Sac. 428 Har. 127

LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEANING PRESSING

men at Marquette University, after

 

     
   
  
   

SMART TOGS

FOR

The Co-ed.
JENSEN & MILLS CO.

LIMITED
SPRING GARDEN ROAD

a football coach has four wheels.
Percy: ‘‘Haw, Haw! And how many
wheels has the bally thing?’’—The Log.

Henry VIII (showing a friend his
album): ‘‘They’re all swell lookers;
those I didn’t like particularly I’ve
marked with an ax.’’—The Tower.

 

 

 

The Students’
PRINTERS

Dalhousians always come to
us when they want a good job
done quickly—and Dalhousians

KNOW!

Pete—Grandescunt aucta labore.

Dear Jack Star:—

I want to write a story for the
Gazette on windows. Can you suggest
any material? F,C.S.,

F. C. S.—Try “The Unromantic
Window,” by Dr. E. W. Nichols, ‘The
Dalhousie Review,” Vol. VII, No. 4.
See Dr. Nichols personally if you can.

 

 

Dear Jack Star:—

Where is the John Hopkins University and when was it founded ?—Al.

A—The John Hopkins University
was founded in 1567 as an institution
of higher learning by John Hopkins in
Baitimore.

 

 

 

Leather Goods

 

 

Too

 

 

bad that cheque

     
     
   
   
  

    
     

didn't arrive by Air-Mail,
but you know how old-fashloned they are down here.
I just had to have a dress
for the Party, and there

I was with only $12.00;
but as I was walking up
Spring Garden Road, wondering how I would get a
dress, what should I see
but the loveliest Party

| dress in the cutest little
shop for only $12.00.--D'EAUVILLE'S they
call it.---A good time was had by all.

D Sauville’s

HALIFAX
AT 31 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

All Coats $24.00----All Dresses $12.00

THE ROSS PRINT

**The Printing Place’’
Argyle Street 5.1958

Last!

Students know—Kelly’s Leather goods lasts for years.
Treat yourself to a new leather
Portfolio or loose leaf book
See our assortment of Novelty
Goods—First floor.

Kelly’s, Limited

GRANVILLE STREET.

COLLEGE MEN

Now is the Time to Buy your
4 Winter Overcoat. Out of my large
variety of styles and patterns you
will find the very Coat you want
at a price that will surpise you. —

CALL IN AND SEE OUR CAMEL
PILE COATS.

MENS* WEAR

I carry everything in Mens Wear
that the College Student wants.

_|itHe MEN’S WEAR SHOP
|} = —s 30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
DLE AGENTS FOR HOBBERLIN CLOTHES

 

 

 

 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 Cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax.

 

 

 

 
   
    

      
         
     
       
   
        
 
 
       
            
      
 
 
  
   

 

ae ia
es
c

:

Re ee

aS

ease
~ .

SR e


 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

_ DALHOUSIANS FAVOR GOV’T CONTROL) Lord Nelson |

- Recent Plebiscite Reveals |Report Shows Dal. Athletes
_ Student Tendency For
Government Sale

 

Large Vote Polled by Undergrads----Co-Eds Desire
Repeal of Present System

 

The returns from the Dalhousie
Plebiscite held last week by the Gazette

reveal the fact that Dalhousie under
_ graduates desire the repeal of the
_ present Nova Scotia Temperance Act

and the substitution of Government
Controlled Sale.
The vote polled was comparatively

- large and quite representative of stud
we

ent feeling.

Intense interest was manifested in
the straw vote, Sealy. by students
in the professional faculties, and approximately ninety per cent of those

enrolled in these faculties registered

their opinions on the momentous
question.

The coed vote was watched with
unusual interest and the result favouring Government Control came as a
marked surprise to both parties.

The Faculty of Law registered the
most decided vote of the day.favoring
Government Control with thirty votes
and the N. S. T. A. by a paltry six.

Only seven members of the Faculty
exerted their franchise, four for Govt.
Sale and three for the system now in
vogue. This small vote by the Faculty
was due unfortunately to the fact that
they were not aware that they had the
privilege of supporting their views.

The Gazette takes this opportunity
of thanking the students who gave so

generously of their time in connection

with the Plebiscite.
The detailed results are as follows:

Wet. Dry.
Arts & Science
Men 153 94
Women 56 49
Total 209 143
Medicine 2 25
Law 31 6
Dentistry 20 7
Faculty 4 3
Total 132 41
Grand Total 341 184
Spoilt Ballots—12
Total Vote Cast—537 ‘

 

St. F. X. Fashion Forecast.—There
will be lictle or no change in trouser
pockets during 1930.

a ae
Pep Meeting Huge
Success

All praise to those who suggested
and planned the Pep meeting. It
was a wow. It is to be regretted that
such meetings have not been held more
often in the past, but it is an assured
thing that many will be held in the
future. About six hundred students
filled the gym when Fred Jennings
took the chair and opened the meeting.
On the platform with him were the
members of both football teams, the
coaches, Dr. MacLeilan and Prof.
Angus MacDona.d, Profs. MacOdrum,
Bean, and Big Jim MacDonaid. Mr,
penning thanked the MacDonald To
acco Co. for their generous gift of
cigarettes to each student and then
called on the Cheer Leaders to take
charge. They did so and the air was
full of. yells for the next few minutes.
Six hundred students stood and strained
It was then that we could see that
Acadia didn’t stand a hope in the game
on Saturday. The coaches both predicted victory and well they might.
“Acadia might burn our paper but
what will our team do to them?” we
the words of one speaker. George
MacLeod, our fighting captain, introduced the members of the teams who
were in turn greeted with cheers. More
songs and yells and did they make whoo
pee. Then Prof. Bean dwelt on the
importance of a College band and
assured us that all we had to do was
say the word and the band would be
on hand for the game Saturday and the
parade afterwards, They were there.
Big Jim led a cheer and what a cheer
leader. Dr. MacOdrum recalled the
year they tied the oid jinks on Acadia.

More co.lege yelis and then the
floor was cleared, refreshments were
served by the S. C. A. and thecrowd
danced to excellent music furnished
by Johnnie Budd and his Dal orchestra.
Thus ended the most enthusiastic
meeting of its kind ever held at the
Old College by the Sea.

If You Want to See Well
SEE WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
YY. M. C. A. Blbg. Halifax, N.S.

 

 

 

Helen Williams
Eulogised

Are Not Subsidized

University Given Clean
Bill by Investigation

New York—(IP) In Only 28 out of
112 North American colleges and
universities studied by the Carne ic
Foundation, was it not found that at
letes were subsidized by any group or
individual. Seven of those given clean
bills were Canadian colleges. The
list is as follows:

Bates, Bowdoin, Carleton, Chicago,
Cornell University, Dalhousie (Canada)
Emory, Illinois, Laval (Canada), Mc
Commenting on the showing of the | Gill (Canada), Marquette, Mass. Agri
Dalhousie Athlites at the

recent | cultural College,

M..k Ts ‘Ottawa

Lunenburg indoor track meet the| (Canada), Queens (Canada), Reed,
Halifax Herald sports writer pays the| Rochester, Saskatchewan (Canada),
following tribute to Helen Williams:| Toronto (Canada), Trinity, Tufts,

Of the new sprinters in the girls’|Tulane, U. S.

Military Academy,

class, Miss Helen Williams, Dalhousie University of Virginia, Wesleyan (Con
coed is rapidly developing into one of | necticut), Williams, Wooster,

the best. Miss Williams, if 1 am not

and Yale,
The eighty-four colleges and uni
off in my prediction, will give Miss |versities in which subsidizing of alt
Gertrude Phinney keen
next spring when the meets are held.
The work of Misses Williams, Rands,
Balcolm, Earl Mason, Joiner

opposition | letes was found to exist in degrees by

varying from occasional alumni help
not authorized or countenanced by

and | college officials, to out and out hiring

Laba was one of the features on the| of athletes, were:

program at Lunenburg Thursday.
a

Amherst, -Boston College, Brown,
Dartmouth, Harvard, Holy Cross,
Middlebury, Vermont, Springfield.

Allegheny, Bucknell, Carnegie Tech

At The Orpheus Colgate, Columbi, Dickinson, Fordnam,

 

 

In thé glowing, colorful extravaganza of Broadway lives and loves,
“Syncopation,”’ now playing, singing and talking to overflowing audiences from the screen of the Orpheus
Theatre, a veritable riot of musical
and singing numbers have been included, many of them original.

“Syncopation, a Radio picture, in
reality, marks a new departure in
film technique. It endeavors to tell
the story of a pair of Broadway hoofers,
married, and separated by ambition
until both are reawakened in their love
for one another by the resolving circumstances of the plot. The producers
resolved to make the film with an eye
to both plot and musical accompaniment and the result was what is billed
as a musical film extravaganza, designed to give the effect of a Broadway
operetta.

Dentists To Hold
Informal Hop

Say, will this ia ‘Dental Dance be a
wow? You bet with those dancing
dentists on the committee and having
an informal dance at a dollar and fifty
a couple, the whole student body will
be there. The date is November
18th. Don’t forget. Be sure to watch
the Notice Boards for particulars.

 

Greeting Cards
Programmes
Invitations
Letter Heads
Envelopes, etc.

From

NOVA PRINT, LTD

227-229 HOLLIS STREET

are delivered

WHEN PROMISED

IMACLEop, BALCOM

LIMITED

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street
and Bedford

FROM THE

WINNERS F®0M 1

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be,
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

   
  
    
 
     
    
  

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Nova Biotin Technical College

Offers ENGINEERING COURSES

In CIVIL p BESCIRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING’
Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma

‘Modern Ridebenvact, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.

- ra. aj | Write or call for Calendar or advice

    
    
  

  
 

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

Franklin and Marshall, Geneva, Gettysvurg, Grove City, Hobart.

Un iversity of Pennsylvanis, Lafayette, Lebanon Valley, Lehigh, Mullen
burg, New York University, Penn
State, Pittsburgh, Princeton, Rutgers,
Syracuse, Ursinus, Washington and
Jefferson.

Blue Ridge, Georgia, Georgia School
of Technology, Georgetown, University of North Carolina, Oglethorpe,
West Virginia, West Virginia Wesleyan,
Western Maryland.

Beloit, Michigan, Northwestern, No.

tre Dame, Oberlin, Ohio State, Ohio
Wesleyan, Purdue, Wisconsin, Coe, |
DesMoins, Drake, Haskell, Oowa, |
Minnesota, Missouri, South Dakota.

ORPHEUS

ALL THIS WEEK
FRED WARRINGS
PENSYLVANIANS IN

“SYNCOPATION”

with Barbara Kent, Morton
Downey and others

Many Original Song Hits
Paramount News Comedy

    

Splendid . Show

With a record of two years notable
success in New York, it can be accepted
as a fact that ‘Little Miss Bluebeard,”
in which the Edna Preston Players will
be seen at the Garrick next week, is a
play that is thoroughly worthwhile.
Yes sir, it is a bright and breezy story,
and one that will “click”? with youth.
Things happen at a mile a minute pace
when it deals with a young bachelor
who swears that he will keep: clear of
married life, but whose friends think

differently. It was in this_ great
comedy success that Irene Bordoni
achieved the triumph of her stage

and in it Miss Preston will have
for it is of type

career,
a part that will score,
in which she excells.

It is well to remember that the pli Ly
this week, ‘Dawn of Tomorrow” is
worth seeing, being a Limehouse story
that is different from the ordinary run.

GARRICK

THIS WEEK

Edna Preston Players
IN IRENE BORDONI’S GREAT
STARRING SUCCESS

“LITTLE MISS
BLUEBEARD”’

| A COMEDY TRIUMPH

 

| NEXT WEEK
| The Musical! Hit

‘“‘BUDDIES”’
I fe

THEATRE.

MON. TUES. WED. NEXT WEEK

“THE DRAKE CASE”

100°, Talking
A ee Murder Trial 
with an All Star Cast

Silent News Comedy

 

 

 

‘‘Boilermakers’”’

Ball of 1929-30

LORD NELSON HOTEL

DANCING 9 to 2 
TICKETS 3.00 COUPLE

 

TICKETS—At Forrest Hall, HUM HARRIS

At Pine Hill, CHESTER LEA

At Studley, RALPH MILLER,
R. G. HARRIS
ALEX, NICKERSON

 

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The
fastest growing
newspapers ip

Nova Scotia

 

Get Your
Hair Cut

Where you are assured of
expert and experienced service. In other words go to

Shield’s Barber Shops

(Two Shops)
41 Sackville St. and Roy Bldg.

Our Roy Building shop will
appeal to the ladies of Shirriff Hall. Quiet and secluded. Take elevator to top
floor. Marcel, Manicure,
Shampoo, Finger Wave, etc.
by lady operator.

Phone S448 for appointment.

 

Open Saturday evenings.

 

O’Coat Time

 

 

For the college man we recommend

the GUARDS MODEL with
pleat and plain half belt.

inverted
Its smart

warm and durable, in Herring Bone

Tweeds, Gray or

Fawn or Navy Blue

priced at $29.00 and up.

COLWELL BROTHERS. Ltd

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET

November 5th, 1929

CASINO

All This Week

“THE
HOLLYWOOD
REVUE”’

THE GREATEST
SHOW OF ALL

Hotel

(The Sociai Center)

 

The Ideal Atmosphere for
your Saturday Evening
Dance, or at any other time
for your Bridge parties,
Dinners, Dances, Etc. :

AFTERNOON TEA,

Orchestra—4.30 to 5.30

SUNDAY CONCERT

9 to 10 p. m.

25 Stars !
Chorus of 200!

 

 

 

THAN fee in TaD PN

wa

vpn ~2

 

A Warm Coat for the Big Game

Camel

 

 

Pile Coats

 

00

$60.22 ana $65.7

These are coats that will score heavily with every

    

College man—the values are as exciting as a

ninety yard run for a touchdown.

Of light weight but very warm for winter wear.
Oxford Grays and Fawn with all round or half
belt, double breasted style.
and slash or set-in pockets.
Sizes 36 to 42,

Large storm collar
Full satin lining.

See them in the Men’s Shop
on the Main Floor

¢T. EATON CO

  
   
  
  

LIMITED

 
