
“i
Fala

ce,

.
. we
>

ne

oe
ele = ye
7 Pi
ve
>=

N

7

 

moe

DAL.
eae

 

_ The Junior Dental class triumphed

over the Seniors in a closely contested
* plowling match staged at Martell’s

alleys on Saturday afternoon last.
| This:

¥
‘ep

fi i ;
P ue FJ

a 3

4

1

14h

rr.
ed

a

eS ae

«>
iF

=

on

contest marks an innovation in
nterclass activities and unofficial steps
aL soon be taken to have a roll off

between Saturday’s winners and the

ner of the Freshman-Sophmore
game which is to take place tomorrow.
Hilliard Clark, Senior was highman

_ for the day, he knocked over 177 pins

(Gee
oN

during the afternoon Geo. MacLeod
Gen second place with a total of 169
points, while Peters and Duxbury
shared honors for first position on the
Junior line up The individual scores

| eo. were as follows:—

bee ners 76 81 156

fo Bitte Se is

Keefe

Photos 77 79 156

pe 755

cone 87 90 177

ee, a k

Me tecton 51 62 113

Taylor 78 87 165
Hudson 52 63 116
ea: 739

  

"
oe ele
L P t;
freee
a *
4
Ae
»*
ee
i
re
fh
i. am
as
- i
ts me
3
§
: 3
{
i “
a
et
a

 
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
     
   
     
   
  

ne

=
=

ie ,
. 7°

fs ¢ [)
es
7 7s
 _

a
.

a
ans

- Students.

i. paren in the Dominion.
S s eebes

 

    
   
 

ae
*

European _ Students’ Tour is
Arranged by
PN. .C.U.S.

—_

ee _ . . . .

Fs f Extensive—including five countries
ire 4.

—yet inexpensive.

An exceptional opportunity for Canadian University students to make a
Tour of Scotland, England, Holland
Belgium and Frace at a very reasonable
cost will be offered, next summer
through the efforts of the National
Federation of Canadian University
The ocean passages will be
made on the Canadian Pacific Steamships, leaving Montreal on the “ Minnedosa” Saturday, June 21st and returning to Quebec about August 3rd
on the “Empress of France.’

The National Federation of Cana
ian University Students has planned
this Tour without any idea of profit
or surplus and as a result the price
quoted of $424.25 has been based on an
absolute minimum of necessary overhead including only such expenses as

ublicity and travelling expenses of a
leader and chaperone. No effort has,
however, been spared in order to make
the Tour as complete and attractive
as possible and the accomodation and
tinerary has not been sacrificed in any
because of the low rate. _

It is intended that it will be a Tour of
strictly University people, open to both
men and women, and as such will have
a distinct personality and character
found in no other Tour. Whenever

ossible the members of the Tour will
fe met by students of the centres through which they are passing and an
opportunity will thus be afforded of
coming into contact with phases of
European life not within reach of the

_ ordinary traveller.

experienced leader will have
charge of the Tour and there will be in
addition, a chaperone, Mrs. A. Gordon
Burns of Toronto, appointed by the
National Federation of Canadian University Students. A
__ For some considerable time there has
been a definite pestis among undergraduates that there should be organzed a Tour which would be definitely
a Students’ Tour and would not have
included in its numbers any outsiders.

a t With this in view the National Federa
tion of Canadian University Students
were urged to take up the idea which
has finally become crystallized in the

*

All indications point to the fact

_ that the Tour will be a complete suc
ew

  

as inquiries are coming in from

Ss
. of berths will be alloted in order

         
    
    
  
  
   

0 receipt of en it is suggestthat immediate action should be

‘All applications must be made
ait aoch 1930, and should be
he local NFCUS

ect to A. Gordon Burns, B. A.
| Secretary, Hart House, Uni
her

of each University or

Undergraduate Publication

Gers.

ee ee

SODALES FOR ABOLI
TIGERS OUTCLASS WANDERERS.

ram! Juniors Win

 

 

Locals Triple Score On Old| Gives Lecture
Rivals in Interesting Bas
ketball Game at “Y’’

 

Dalhousie now in easy reach of City League title.
Next game Thursday night.

 

Dalnousie’s classy basketball team
continued their tliumphant march
whcn they downed their old rivals the
Wanderers by the overwhelming score
of 30-10 on Saturday night. The
game was staged at the Y. M. C. A.
and a fair crowd was on hand. Dal
were all over their opponents all
through the game, and at no time was
the result in doubt, although the
Wanderers fought gamely from whistle
to whistle.

Sparkling combination plays combined with accurate shooting enabled

the Tigers to score 30 well-earned
points while the Reds, outplayed
throughout, struggled hard to bring
their score to the 10 mark,

The whole Dal team played well,
Davidson, ‘Big Jim’’ MacLeod and
McClellan being particularly effective
while Charlie Anderson saved many
scores by his brilliant work,

The result of the game places Dal
within an ace of the city league championship—needing only a win or draw
with the Y in Thursday night’s game.

 

Law is Only Faculty Against
Introduction of $10 Fee

 

Gazette ‘‘ragged’’, among other things, at radical
Medical meeting called to consider the change

 

The ten dollar fee is the leading topic
at the University this week 4 with
meetings being held in every society
and class to settle whether orgnot a
plebiscite should be held this coming
Spring. The surprising result of the
situation so far is the swinging over
into the Ten Dollar Fee group of the
Medical Society who were about 4 to 1
against the fee two years ago when the
vote was taken. Law is the only
Faculty today showing a majority for
those against the new proposed levy.
All Art Classes that have so far expressed their intentions on the question
have been almost unanimous in support of the scheme. At the time of
writing it looks as if the college would
roll up a good majority for the ten

| dollar fee if there were a plebiscite
, tomorrow.

But one can never tell.
Those who are opposed to the change
are loud in their cry, ‘“‘What do we get
out of the $7 fee—why raise it to $10?’,

The meeting of the Medical Society
to deal with the situation was held on
Tuesday evening in the Munroe room
with a good attendance. The news
that ‘‘Bub’’ MacKinnon, noted radical?
and worthy exponent of the people’s
tights would be present brought forth
a goodly crowd. Eddie Ross presided
and did the job well—even calling the
great head of the Council, Jennings,
to task for not addressing the chair!

:
; *
Basket Batt

Engineers defeated Commerce 23-10.
Engineers:

Spencer 16, Miller 6, Matheson J. 1
Mateson, A., Lee, Gardner.
Commerce:

Smofsky 1, Mahon 1, Hewatt 4,
Kitaeff, Goldberg, Ross, Miller.

Medicine won from Law 11-5.
Medicine:

 

 

Douglas, MacDonald 8, Piercy 3,
Denoon 6, Outhouse, Budd, Ross,
Tanton, Baird.

Lawyers:

Redmond, Smith 8, MacInnis 2,
Finlayson, Cowan. ;
pecans drew with Medicine.
Theology:

Maclean 1, Oliver 1, Fraser 9, W.

acDonald, Archibald, Marston, Bac
Medicine:
MacDonald 4, Douglas 2, Denoon 2,
Ross, Outhouse 1, Tanton 2.

It was a whirlwind of fun—and such
wind! Fat MacKenzie waxed hot
and almost forgot what he had to say.
Fred Jennings excelled himself—in fact
the President’s message is what is to
a large degree responsible for the way
the meeting decided the question.
For the negative there were three
principal speakers: Len Miller, representative for Medicine on the Students’
Council, ‘““Bub’’ Mackinnon and ‘‘Fencchy’”’ MacDonald, popular Senior Med.
Len Miller said that the fee went thru
we would be ail right for a while but
would be just as badly off in a few
years. Someone interjected ‘“Then we
should have a $20 fee.’’ But this was
ruled out of order and does not appear
in Bob Baird's minutes. ‘Bub’’ MacKinnon, we are toid, had an exceilent
address prepared with the aid of his
pater, with the points to stress written
in red, but when he became to talk
about Kings’ University instead of
Dathousie—he was ruled out of order—
and looked it, as he gracefully resumed
his seat, orating all the time. The
Dalhousie Gazette came in for a lot of
criticism—as did nearly every society
in the college. It was a reguiar Hyde
Park and words like “‘tripe’’ were used
to describe the articies written by the
president of the council, officers of
Sodaies, managers of athletic teams
and other prominent men and women
around Dathousie, which articles had
appeared in our university weekly.

“Frenchy’’ MacDonaid made one of
the finest and most convincing speeches
of the evening and what he said carried

/a great deal of weight—but we did not
) think much of him’ for criticizing and
belittling those who have made the
Dathousie Gazette possible by writing
articles for it—whemwe remember that
not a word has Mr. MacDonaid written
for the Gazette, in the last four years
and perhaps never in his long time at
Dalhousie. When Mr. MacDonaid did
not indulge in unfair criticism he was
very interesting.

The Medical Society endorsed the
Gazette’s stand by going on record as
being in favour of the Ten Dollar Fee.

Law Society voted against the
measure—the only group in the university so far to vote in this manner,
The Lawyers cry for more evidence.

The meeting was characteristic of
The Law Society, the most turbulent
of Dalhousie forums, Guss, Grant
and Morton appeared on behalf of the
increase and submitted a few facts and
several misleading figures. Alex O’Han
dley, Ex M. P. P., Gerry Stewart,
Dwyer, and Hinc Russell argued to
maintain the status quo. O'Handley
carrried the day with a whirlwind oratio
and the following vote was not even
close. Once again the Law School
had proven itself the rock of stability
amid a sea of trouble.

:

 

» “It (the proposed Reparations Bank)
is one thing which-the conference was
able to discover which would solve the
problems of international settlements
arising out of the war,”—/. P, Morgan

On Wednesday last Commerce and
Arts’ students who flocked to Room 3
of the Arts’ Building in spite of the
cold weather when Dr. Marbin, Economist of the Royal Bank delivered a
lecture.

Those who had the opportunity
of hearing the well known economist
were amazed with the simplicity with
which he transformed dry and complex
subjects into interesting and clear
topics,

The main point of Dr. Marvin's
address was that over production in
certain industries was evident at the
present time and that “if the price
level will continue to decrease at the
same rate for the nex six months the
world will face a severe crisis’. The
remedy is for the central banks of the
world to gradually lessen their reserves so that money will be plentiful
enough to cope with the demand for it
and thus keep the price level constant.

Another important subject treated
by Dr, Marvin was that of tourist trade.
Tourist trade is one of our most important industries. There are twenty
one million Americans who visit Canada
each year. The thing to do is to sell
them articles at a cheaper rate than
they can procure them in the U. S., A.
behind their high Tariff wall.

Pres. A. S. MacKenzie presided at
the meeting.

Model League of
Nations to Meet
Here in March

One of the most interesting events to
take place at Dalhousie this year
will be the holding of the second
Maritime Model Assembly of the League
cf Nations on March, 7 and 8. The
first Assembly of this kind in this part
of Canada met last year at Mount
Allison University, Sackville, N. B,
There delegates came from Acadia, the
University of New Brunswick, King’s
and Dalhousie and held several sessions,
in which matters of inteinational interest and importance were thoroughly
discussed and debated. Dalhousie had
the distinction in naving one of its
delegates, Roy A, Lawrerce, B. A. ’29,
elected to the Presidency of the First
Assembly.

This year the General Committee
decided in favour of Dalhousie for the
seat of the second Assembly. Gerald
Redmond M. A. of the Law School who
was appointed Chairman of the Dalhousie delegation has been exceedingly
active during the past few weeks making preparations for the meeting.
Several gatherings of all students interested in the work of the League have
been held. At the last meeting on
Thuisday, Dr. MacKay, of tne Political
Science Departm nt was present and
outlined very carefully the work to be
taken up b* the Second Model Assembly.

On Saturday, Feb. 15, another meeting will be held at 12 o'clock in Toom
3 of the Arts Building, There are
several assignments fos King’s and
Dalhousie that have not vet been
filled and all students who are interested
should make it a point to be on hand.

Remember the date and the
place of this meeting—Saturday,
Feb. 15, at 12 noon, in Room 3,
Arts Building.| If you are unable
to be present notify Mr. Redmond
at the Forrest Building or Dr. MacKay at Studley.

Student Opinion

Every once in a while some newspaper comes out with the statement
that student opinion on any subject
is definitely set in a certain direction,
Reading such reports tne average
man is likely to tnink that all students
think aiike on every subject, that
student opinion is something definite
and crystaiized, and that the opinion
of any one undergraduate on any subject whatsoever, expresses t he opinion
of the whole c.tudent body. One
might as well speak of world opinion.
One might as weil take the opinion
of any one man as representative of the
betiefs of all the civilized and uncivilized nations witn all their various likes
and dislikes, prejudices, hates, superstitions and religions.— McGill Daily.

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

 

TION OF SENATE

Second Legislative Chamber
Is Denounced At Recent
Debate

 

Alex. O’Handley, ex-M. P. P. and Miss Geraldine

Simms sway large audience against Senate

 

 

Sport Comment

 

Dalhousie certainly has a fighting
basketball team this year. To vanguish Mount A. at any time is no mean
feat, but to win from them in their
own gym is an accomplishment which
calls for the sincerest of congratulations.
Dalhousians are proud of you!

A City League Championship in
basketball would be in keeping with
our 1929 Rugby Championship!

The Intermediate hoopsters dropped
a hard fought game to the Wanderers,
Saturday. Unsatisfactory refereeing
and hard luck appears to have played
a part in the struggle. Better luck
next time.

The hockey team is practising hard
in preparation of a return game with
Mt. A,

From all appearances they will keep
the score closer than on their meeting
last week at the Forum.

To hold Mt. A. in their own rink
would certainly be a “feather in their
cap,’ What about it?

A practise game is to be played
sometime during the coming week
against St. Mary’s. Just which team
is the better is still an unanswered
question as their last meeting resulted
in a 2-2 draw.

Little doubt remains in the matter
of a professional coach for all branches
of sport. Success in athletics attained
by smaller colleges with the services
of a professional coach in the major
sports is very noticeable.

 

 

—_——

Crucial Basket
Game Thursday

Thursday night Dal meets the “Y”
sthe most important basketball game
of the season, a win or draw for the
Tigers meaning that the Halifax City
League Basketball Championship is
once again a Dalhousie achievement.

All through the season the boys have
been playing a hard, consistent game,
and have managed to keep their slate
clean as far as defeats go, so that now
they are in a position to clinch the
championship Thursday night,

The odds are certainly in favour of
the Tigers as the game is to be staged
in the Dal gym, where it is expected
that an enthusiastic crowd of supporters will cheer Dalhousie's fighting
team to the league championship.

It only remains fos each and every
Dalhousian to turn.out and lend nis and
her support to a team which deserves
it in every re.pect. Remember, Thursday night at the Dal Gym and the
admission isonly 6c. Why not another
championship for Dal?

Wants Dal Night

Dear Editor:—

About this time every year, the cry
goes forth, ‘‘When are we going to have
a Dalhousie night at the Forum?”

Last Monday night was supposed to
be a “Dal night,” but was it? Everyone was welcome for thirty-five cents.
And there was skating for only an hour
and a quarter. With Dal people
alone the ice would have been crowded
but with outsiders and kids—Ye gods!

The students’ council perhaps cannot afford to charter a night for Dal
students exclusively, but what Dal
student would object to paying 265c.
when he knows that the ice won’t be
strewn with prostrate bodies!

Then wouldn't it be possible, that if
there was to be a game, for the game
to begin earlier to have more time for
skating.

Last year we had two skating nights,
couldn’t we have more this year?

Yours for more a better skates.

 

It is well for the members of the
Canadian Senate that their term
of office is not measured by the pleasure
of Sodales. For were this the case their
existence would be short lived indeed.

On Friday evening, February 7th,
Sodales Debating Society, met in the
main hall of the Forrest Building to
consider the following resolution:—

“Resolved that this House is in
favor of the abo.ition of the Canadian
Senate.”

On this occasion the meeting was
conducted in parliamentary fashion.
Ernest Howse presided as speaker
and Gordon Harris as Clerk. Chairs
were so arranged that the supporters of
each side could seat themselves behind
the principal speakers, according to the
side they wished to support, This
method is substantially the same as
that used at Hart House, and on this
occasipn proved highly successful.

Mr, Alex O’Handley ex-M. P. P.
and Miss Geraldine Simms spoke for
the affirmative of the resolution, while
Mr. Binney Fairbanks and Miss Jean
Leslie sustained the negative.

Mr. O’Handley was the first speaker
to show cause why our second legislative
chamber at Ottawa should cease to
exist. He pointed out that while the
resolution might appear rather drastic,
yet in reality the Senate does not
exist; inasmuch as it will not act for
the purpose with which it was created,
namely, to check hasty legislation.
The Senate is irresponsible and has
never acted on any important legislative
issue. Any measure strongly supported by the government is never opposed.
Under the British North American
Act, the Senate has the same powers
as the House of Commons except as
regards revenue. Another objection
raised by Mr. O'Handley was that the
Senate is removed from the moral
authority of the people. If the Senate
obstruct legislation, it will be abolished.
Also, Senators are appointed by the
government of the time and this results in the appointment of partisans
and old, feeble men who are physicaily
declining, ‘This leads to menta! decay
and very undesirable measures, What
is the Senate? It is the aimshouse tor
old politicians, and why should the
people pay for old politicians pensions?
Finally, Mr. O'Handley agreed, there
is no need of a Senate because the
mandate of the peopie is a sufficient
steadying influence. The Senate aiso
can hold out against everybody, and
an elective second chamber wouid
merely duplicate the House of Commons,

Mr. Fairbanks then arose to justify
the existence of that great body at
Ottawa and proceeded to do so by
showing the large amount of hasty and
ill-considered legislation. Canada has
enormous resources, from east to west
which stimulates a feeling of optimism
resulting in “‘boom times,’’ and that
is the time of danger, of headstrong
action when the stabilizing influence
of the Senate is essential. ‘Che House
of Commons and the Senate are the
two greatest Canadian law-making
bodies. If the Senate is removed,
only one is left. We must have wise
legislation, and this is very difficult.
The House of Commons is swayed by
passion, fear and partisanship, hence
the need of an impartial check. The
senators are impartial and there is no
incentive to vote for a party only.
Further more, cotended Mr. Fair
banks, brokendown old men do not
become senators, There are other
offices for these worn out party politicians, Finally the Senate is an opposition, and that is the best thing in
the world,

Miss Simms, then proceeded to
consign the Senate into the class of the
hall of memories by first contending
that the Senate is opposed to democracy. Its members are not representatives of the people and a seat there
is the reward of faithful service to a
party. Then, look at the old men in
it. In 1920, the average age was sixtyfour. These old men have _ their
faculties impaired and also, at a ripe
old age, their political ideas have
become crystallized and are out of
date because they are of an older
school. Finally, the greatest defect
is that the Senate rests on no political

basis coupled with a lack of *s
sibility to the people. ee
(Continued on Page F our)

—— hn ean ae Ye
ed ii 1S 
eee te %

a —

 
   
   
 

   
  
 
 
  
     
       
  
    
   
     
   
   
 
   
   
     
  

   

Oh For i Sense of Sansa?

 

During the week the College has gone Ten Dollar Fee
Crazy. Political leaders on the council have gone on the
stump in Arts, ‘Bub’ Mac Kinnon has come out of his hole
in the wall in the Forresi Building and called the editors of
the Gavette ‘‘liars’’ or words to that effert, and has shaken
his fists at the Medical Society Meeting, the Lawyers have
had their hottest Society Meeting in years with EX-M.P.P.
O’ Handley submitiung ail kinds of dire threats and picturing

RALPH S. MORTON, B
Phone Sac. 304

e*

News Editors,

oe i ese eae | years oJ gloom and depression with Ben Guss coaxing a crowd
PT , wy ae tne of matter of Jact poviticians to think of their ‘‘coilege spiru,’
Pho" KEN. SMITH. ' “1
bp an DORIS MARGESON whatever that may mean. And that’s the sorry condition
| J. ROSENBLUM of affairs at this charming little seat oJ learning at the present

Sport Editor. time.

Where before there was peace, tranquility and perfect
concord amongst the Student body— today the inhabtiants of
the Land of Dai are calling each other, *‘ Partisans, Liars,

Fake Propagandists, Taz-Oppressors, defeatists, tripe-writers

 

Associate Editors.
MADELEINE PAGE, B. A.

  
 
 

  

 
 
  
         
      
    
       
     

  

Bens me : CORDON COOPER and other words never intended for Webster’s Abridged
a se J. LOUIS ey: 5 eile Ekigsiar: Edition. And the cause of it all—the old Ten Dollar Fee, reso a era CHIBALD , = J. R. DONAHUE. surrected and brought to life by our twewe disciples—the
<5 Phone L. 229%. Phone Sac. 4086]. Council.

a .

We find men who never went to a Hockey game, who
never attended a Glee Club Show, who never wrote a word for
theGaszette, telling us astounding information about the cost
of hockey, how Giee Club could be improved, and the kind of
articles the Gazette should and should not print. The interest that some students have taken recently in student affatrs
has amazed us—and if for no other reason this discussion will
be of great lasting interest and value to us all—because of the
seeking after knowledge, the gleaning of facts about the
prices of oranges, quoted anywhere from $60 to $100 a case,
balanced budgets and in general the broad “‘educational
campaign’’ conducted on both sides which will have a farreaching effect. .

““The time has come'‘the Walrus’ said to taik of many
things.?’ Len Miller, and ‘‘Frenchy’ MacDonald say that
the Gazette is filled with’ ‘‘tripe.”’? Granted. But with
neither of these genilemen submitting articles, how can we
put out anything else but tripe! Perhaps these gentlemen
are being mis-quoied—apparently everything that was said
and writien in this campaign has been misquoted. ‘* However,”’ as A. Stanley Walker used to say, “‘let’s get on a bit.”’

As Fat Mac Kenzie has so ably put it—The joke of the
whole thing is that if we had been called on by Murray MacNeill two years ago to pay an extra three dollare we would
have come across with the money without an argument—
what’s three dollars more or less when we are paying out

$248—and besides we have to argue with Murray!

So what we all need more than the Ten Dollar Fee, in my
opinion is a good old fashioned, keen, sense of humour—and
then the exira three dollars wouid be given without a compiaint, or a tong address on the taxation of King’s Students
by “Bub”? Mac Kinnon.

Writer Defends Latin Sheepskin

A protest has been raised against the
custom of diplomas for degrees being
written in Latin. It is truly surprising
to find a man who has almost completed a course in Law, the faculty
where tradition reigns supreme, objecting to this practice that is honoured by
time and hatlowed by tradition. Should
this old University depart from its
ancient custom of employing in its
diplomas that subtle and _ learned
tongue that for centuries has been

Subscription Rate $1.50 per year.
Gazette Phone Sack. 4866.

<

  

ak:

 

 
  
  
  

idly 2h
oe

     

 

Printed by WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-11 Bedford Row, Halifax, N.S.

er “STAY EAST YOUNG MAN, STAY EAST.”
oe A great deal of comment has been occasicned, particularly of

mar:  Jate years, or the exodus from the Maritime Provinces of mary of
the most promising of our young manhood. Many reasons havr
been assigned for this state of affairs which all Maritimers :egard
as regrettable. Reports come from all over the United States and
Upper Canada of successes achieved in the professions and in
____ business life by those cf Bluenose blood. Old home movements
bring back to the Provinces by the sea for a brief space men who
_ .are directing huge developments in other parts of thr world. The
question occurs again and again, why do they not stay home and
carve their careers of brilliance in their native provinces? Is it
__ just the irresistible lure of the distant pastures, which to the man
of adventurous blood, seek greater than those at home? If we
Beet believe the protestations of those men who have achieved the
heights we must conclude that they regard the Maritimes with all
‘the affection of native sons. Why then did they leave to venture
forth into strange fields of endeavour to seek the successes they

__- would rather have found in the Maritimes?
_--__-[n former years the chief reason advanced for this exodus was
the cry of “no opportunities for the young men of vision in the

cee Rips ye ete te eS - :
_ stagnant Maritimes.” If we are to believe the business statistics

  

a

           
          
           
  

Fd

  
 

  

  

  
  

 
 
 
  

             
    
     
   
       
 
   

 
 

   

f Jt fia

  

   
     
      
    
 
   
   
 
    
     
       
    

  

  
  

:
a

 

ae

we receive now, however, it will be seen that the situation
changed. We have entered a period of prosperity. Ow
7 pr amtueisies are running full time. Our economic ills have been
; righted. to some extent by a Governmental recognition of the

ar: = has”

 
  

sadvantages under which the Maritimes have been suffering for
ears. In spite of this prosperity the exodus still continues.
‘Time aftes time the young holder of a College degree must, in his
Be arch for a position, be carried far from home. We beleve that
this situation, so lamentable in robbing the Mazitimes of their best

ia "e js caused chiefly by the lack of opportunity that is given
to the College man in Eastern Canada to show his value to thr
irm which employs him. These employers overlook the fact
that the College man has spent four or more of the years of his
» in preparation for a carees which, in his opinion, can be made

more valuable by that period of preparation. Employers apparent
Jy ignore this most important point when they include College men
Y on their staff. Thcy advise patience—patienc:, forgetting that
the man has already possessed his soul in patience for four or more

 
 

 

   
  

  
 

ity that is engendered in the Great
Distinction man when he compares his
very ordinary English diploma with the
‘magnis cum honoribus,” and_ the
phrases about “examinatione difficullore extremo”’ etc. in the High Honours
parchment. He may become afflicted
with an inferiority complex that will
follow him throughout his life with
most dire results; and everytime he
shows it to his friends (especially
female) if indeed he does so at all, the

on
; “i )

n

Ct Ss)

  

  

 

          
    
   
    
       
   
  
 

 
 

  

  
 

og ine. expensive years in a University. Opportunity is what the the mark of the scholar, especially of|}same “dolor in, pectore mordebit.”
graduate 1s looking for now—-opportunity and a salary somewhat| the lawyer, with his ‘non est factum,”’| The Great Distinction man works too

hard to deserve such treatment.

Lastly, my learned legal friend
should remember that “de minimis
non curat lex’’ and that, after all the
diploma, nay, even the very degree is
but a very small thing in comparison
with the true purpose of our years in
college. It is to the acquisition of
knowledge and a liberal education that
our aim should be directed, and our
motto should be “de minimis discipulus
non curat.”

“donatio mortis causa’ and ‘‘non in
esse?”’ No, tradition alone demands
its retention, for tradition is the soul of
a college.

Turning to some of the arguments
‘that are advanced by the learned counsel for English diplomas one finds the
objection that the graduate cannot
read his diploma. But why should
that worry him? [Ze does not need
to read it for his own satisfaction, for
he knows he has his degree or he would
not have the diploma, with its seal,
its ribbon, and its Latin. The impression on the man who has picked
up very little Latin during his college
career is perhaps not gratifying, but
is not the impression that is produced
of far more value? Most of us are
awed by and inclined to admire things
that we cannot understand, notably
‘“‘feminae.”’ Picture the small esteem
in which a geaduate of this ancient and
honourable institution would hold an
English diploma , savyouring of high
school and juveniles. Let us hope
that we shall never descend to be
‘primus inter pares’’ with them.

Let us suppose the graduate is asked
by an admiring friend to translate his
diploma. Here is where the great
advantage of the Latin may be seen.
It may be assumed that the friend
cannot read Latin, since he or (more
likely) she has requested a translation.
Think of the possibilities that are
open to the graduate to make an impression! Instead of being forced to
show his friend the plain and heartless
English ““Admitted to degree of B. A.”
he can deduce from the Latin diploma
divers types of high honours and extraordinary distinctions. In addition, the
effect of inspiring awe in the friend
is even greater than in himself,for the
friend will probably form the conclusion
that the graduate is learned in this
ancient language of erudition. Consequently he will be awed not only by
the diploma, but also by “ipse homo.”
It is argued that thereis no good reason
why our diploma should not be written
in English so that everybody can read
them. But that is just the point. If

- ¢ommensurate with his needs and his abilities. If Maritime
_ ‘University men can be given positions in the United States and in
‘Upper Canada at high salaries that policy must pay the men who
-__ employ the boys from the Maritimes otherwise the policy would be
discontinued. If, then, a Dalhousie graduate is worth paying a
high salary to in Upper Canada or in the United States, why is he

mot worth something approaching that salary in the prosperous
‘Maritimes? It is because the College men are not given the
opportunity here to show what they are really worth. They are
__ started to work on a salary that hardly suffices for their material
wants, in pesitions where they spend yearsof routine work before
advancing to any position of trust. Let the Maritime employers
___ of men take a desperate change some time and actually assume that
a man who has spent some years in College has acquired some

  

     
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 

   

  

          
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
  

 

Personals

 

es
“ck
a

Z,

a

___ powers of intellect, and has developed his mind to think and grasp
problems quickly. Let these employers pay the College men they
take into their businesses or professional offices a salary that can
‘not be characterised as a starvation wage. Finally, after having
gone thus far, give the new employees an opportunity to train
themselves as quickly as possible for higher positions. In pursuing
a policy of this kind-they may strike a few ‘‘duds,” but we believe
that in the great majority of cases they will profit, and the boys
_ won’t have to be brought back Home—they won't go away. In
short, if Maritime brains are desired in the Maritimes, they would
9e paid more money, and given greater opportunities to show

_ what they are worth. no

A DALHOUSIAN AND THE LABOUR PAPER.

a pf. ie 8
pees at
_ We note that J. A. MacCurdy, formes Dalhousian has recently
hhased “The Citizen,”’ Halifax's Labour Paper. Mr. MacCuras ee and an everlasting supply of energy. As a young
he is tackling a big job—but we feel assured that the man is
igger than the task he is undertaking and that “The Citizen”
will go forward in leaps and bounds. Mr. MacCurdy’s Editor is
darold T. Roe, well known Halifax journalist. The Gazette
omens its hearty congratulations to these two newspaper men
heir new undertaking and wishes them great success in the

Ire, ,
More Truth Tha

The Kappa Beta Phi Sorority had a
bridge party for the pledges on Wednesday last in their Sorority room on
South Park St.

Miss Gertrude Rutherford, National
Secretary for S. C. M., has been spending a few days with us at Dalhousie,

“Soon There'll be
No More Burning
of ea

1

Huge transparent fused quartz rods
which will carry the light from China
to America and convert our night into
real day may be a reality in the future,
Professor Alexander Silverman head
of the chemistry department of- the
University of Pittsburg, declares.

Professor Silverman is the discoverer
of several kinds of glass in commercial
use today. He owns one of the most
complete glass collections in the world,
from the standpoint of art and technology, numbering more than 8000

pieces.
A Wonder-World.

 

  
   
     
  
  
  
    
 
 
     
    
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

  

 

n Poetry

   

“These same rods running north and

the deuce do you thing we are south, may also convey the heat of the

  
 

today, 1A ilies dallar-Grrn? we make them so everybody can read tropics to the temperate and frigid
vhich comes from all,|Go and see the Students’ Council, them, the atmoSphere of awe and|]zones,” he declared. ‘Such things
t I shall say. You've got a lot to learn!” mystery that so effectively overwhelms | can conceivably happen. We live in a

the “‘ignobile vulgus” will be gone for
wonder-world. We cannot even adeever.

quately dream the wonders that future

5 ‘And to the Students’ “C” we

° 7 1ents re go The only reform that I think should] generations will enjoy. We are still
| Oh well, se Be Rael ag of dough be urged is against any diplomas|infants in the eraitie of Riverton.
ere ieee, : $10" es being in English. At present the|Supermen in the research laboratories
pare lease, have ; tae ee ee di Bie is in Eng- 7 the ete have i opportunity whose
MT tC : igh Honours is in| limit is nothing short of infinity.—McP AP. M. Latin, Imagine the feeling of inferior- | Gill Daily. .

Tied Alanis to
Run in Election

The following item taken trom one
of the Kansas city ‘dailies’ will be of
interest to the many friends of Dr. A.
Ross Bell in the city of Halifax and
to all members of the alumnus.

Dr. A. Ross Hill will consent to become a candidate for mayor or councilman at large if there is a sufficient
demand for his candidacy to warrant
his entering the race. |

That was his reply by telegram from
California today to requests of officials
of the Citizens Union and friends that
he agree to become a nonpartisan
candidate in the coming municipal
election. Dr. and Mrs. Hill have been
spending a brief vacation in California.
They are expected to return next
Tuesday.

In order to convince Dr. Hill there
is a demand for a nonpartisan candidate of his qualifications, L. R. Ash,
head of the Citizens Union, announced
that nomination petitions would be
circulated at once for Dr. Hill.

‘‘We are convinced,” said Mr. Ash,
“that there is a need for a real nonpartisan candidate of the type of Dr.
Hill in the race for mayor or councilman.

“In my opinion he is the ideal candidate, both by training and qualification and because of his stand in
favor of giving the nonpartisan charter a real chance to function in Kansas
City.

“Officials of the union and friends
of Dr. Hiil are certain there will be
a strong response among the voters
to his candidacy, if he will consent

finally to run.”
| ®

©

 

eee ee Ol,

Pine Hill

Se , a ¢

Found—In Pine Hill, one phonograph, portable type. May be heard
grinding out jazz in Room 14 almost
any evening. It is thought that
same may have strayed from Shirreff
Hall, but owner may prepossess property by proving ownership to J—H.
MacF.

  
   
 
    
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
   

Binnie Fairbanks, the neglected roommate of James Fay, who recently
quitted the ranks of the celibate
now shares quarters with Sayre Chandler. Sayre knows a good Residence
when he sees one. Welcome back,
Sayre!

Strange and divers things are migrating lately between Hill and Hall.
Sometime ago Pine Hill put ona dance
and horrible to. relate, some banners
were carried off! Didn’t the wire
hum between the two _ Residences.
Anyway Miss Lowe finally located the
precious things. Recently Shirriff Hall
held a dance and the migratory object
was no less than a cushion. Reports
have it that this coveted object now
graces the room of an Engineer in the
Annex, but so far we haven’t heard
anything about it in way of protest.
Are we being shown up by the Hall's
beau geste?

Hockey is thriving at the Hill.
Tuesday night the’ Blue and White
downed the M. B. C. to the tune of
9-1. Hicks starred!!

The Pine Hill Pepper Box is just
out and the Hillers have registered

 

cracks at the Hill’s expense, especially
at the instigation of an old Resident,
Aside from that Pine Hill like the
last show. Some of the boys could
see the raison d'etre of the last act, but
Dougs a nice fellow and

Other Dreams

With Apologies to Ben R. Guss.

 

 

In dreams I walked a golden shore
And lolled beneath bright stars,
In dreams I was a princess dear
And had a dozen cars.

In dreams | sat upon a throne
And ruled the whole creation,
In dreams I had the power to put

My subjects on probation,

"Twas on the grass, one summer day,
These dreams were very bright ~
But dreams are doomed to sudden death
I woke to sudden fright.
“BOOTS.”

MUSIC

parts of famous compositions,
standard music for the Violin.

» faa. . :

their disfavour of the Glee Club wise

a _ TT

 

Barrington Street, =<

‘ 7 ® 4 ;
ee ee ee ee eo

wy * +

February 11th, 1986

 

—— eels

 

  
   

ELLY’S
OLUMN

A thousand or moreJpeople said to me
last week: “Well [ see that Gerry
Godsoe actually did get off at last,
after all.”

ME-OW

Statistics made up after the Animal
Show held at the Hall recently show
that there are more dogs than cats in
that noble residence—which is rather
surprising!

PROPERTY TOO

Jo Powell thinks that if you had an
island out in the middle of a 40 mile
broad river, more than three miles
from the shore, it would be neutral
ground. But then Jo only thinks he
thinks.

Now that the C. O. T. C. and the
University have installed a new shooting gallery in the basement of the
gymnasium we hope it will produce
more shots than half-shots as has
previously been the case.

 

 

Little Rambles With Serious Think
ers.

Len Miller: They talk about a biweekly Gazette, now I ask you who
wants to look at two issues a week of
that Triper’”’

Herbie: lf they brought in the Ten
Dollar Fee perhaps they might even
pay me to bring my family to Glee
Club.

Rolph: I can’t help it if I possess
an over supply of sex appeal. I am
still searching for my dream girl.

Last night while the American Debaters, Cyril Greene and John MacDonald were wasting their time talking
I won two games of solitaire. All of
which goes to show what can be accomplished in one’s spare time.

It is said that the present lawyers at
Dalhousie are the only members of
their profession who do not believe
in an increased fee.

Dalhousie’s Great Institutions.
Chemistree Beakers.

Mumoreal Jimnassium (proposed),
Kommity of Seven Imploymunt
Agenzey.

 

 

     

DALHOUSIE
SWEATERS

NO STUDENTS

Wardrobe is complete without
a Dal. Sweater. Pick one
out of our large stock

HATS

Justin. A large assortment of
Hats for College men of
latest design

SUITS
and TUXEDOS

Hart House ready-to-wear and
House of Hobberlin madeto-measure, the very
newest in design
and cloth

TIES - SHIRTS~- EVERYTHING

SHANES

MENS WEAR SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the

VIOLINIST

Wecould not attempt to list here th ; salt
Music that we carry, but we do ask ace grand collection of Violin

t you send for free sample

graded studies, and a catalogue of

Write today for your copy.

 

Halifax, N. S.

‘fe A.
é

at 7

rs .
te

. et

ny os 
|
;

 

 

 
ned _ The characters in this story are purely ficticious. If you think you recogise any living persons, certainly none are intended.
solely from the author’s imagination.

Corona University has an atmosphere all its own.
in fact one of the oldest on this continent, and perha
“collegiate” in the modern sense of the word—for Dr. R. Waldo
2 worthy president is a conservative of the conservaties and rarely
shows his enthusiasm for the college by attending even the most exciting and
Perhaps the reason is that he is afraid of sett ng a
or that the Student Union might call on him to lead a cheer, or that
become too intimate with an over zealous freshman who would afterthe acquaintance as a means of gaining favours after the mid-year
And none of these would be worthy acts for a president of Corona

S-.
7)

ae J

rs. _ wards use

Tee

en
li
i

,.
Ke

7?

ek ew) ha
2 a

_ as

me i
im ha
b 
of the year when varsity meets their old rival’ and furthermore he was requested

v . fe
fee
= oe.

; P . " ihe

>

d Old Corona’’

“Td Die for Old Corona

po

__A Brand New Story of Life in An Imaginary College

By a New “ Gazette ”’ Story Writer.

ee eee

By George J. Greene.

CHAPTER ONE.
“KEEN OLD DEAN McKEAN.”

why it is not so
‘a ham, its

important football games.
recedent
he might

exams.
‘University.

The characters are

It is an old University
that is one of the reasons

But to-day Dr, Graham was present—not because he particularly wished
‘see his students make greater fools of themselves—but because this was the

game of games, the contest the movie subtitles refer to as: “The critical game

to attend by the “College Spirit Committee.”

1 ae

eH

*

ee

.
ae
<
a —

7
i ©
_"

J

- "
Sed"
a =

| _ So there Dr. Graham stood in all his

majesty, honoring the little college
by his presnece—as tall as “Big Tim”

_ O’Brien the university’s boxing champ’

: * ;
a /
I
_
‘é
e
Pa
=
—
4

Ay
a)

Ba
> ie tas

ee

=

ye
SS

4 in] “
pa yen
® ‘e

= as

Ps ae

pane‘
it~ 9

S *

«= ’

4;
Bs Piigt

Along side him stood a smaller man
a. real head of the college, Dean
McKean, the guiding genius who
told you to take Math. 1 and you took
Math 1, who planned the calendar
‘and made it a code of law, who knew
every student by name, and could
tell them what class they were skipping
at the identical time he met them in
the corridors or down town. Dean
McKean was attending the game for
a different reason—high High School
daughter Ruth wanted to come—
and the Dean valued a peaceful homestead.

_ “How was the registration this year
Mac?” boomed the worthy president

 1G.A. McDonald

TOBACONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
tix description

‘ A complete stock of Domestic
o and Imported

_ CIGARS, CIGARETTES

t and TOBACCOS

ee

21 Spring Garden Road}

LIMITED

_ | YELLOW CAB

SACK. 4444
Halifax Only Metered

Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cenis extra.

Fraternity Pins and Class
| Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced work
men.

We have specialized in this

field for years.

- Henry Birks & Sons

imited
pEmOND MERCHANTS

ifax.

|| BUTTONS ON

|| RENTS MENDED

| HOLES DARNED
That’s the service you

et
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

| VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:

Your Suit or Overcoat
Sha and Pressed, for
60 Cents.

NECKTIES, cleaned 10c.

| UNGAR’S
| Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.
Sac. 428 Har. 107

‘DYEING
PRESSING

in his best of Convocational tones.

“There were 11.9% more students
in the faculty of Medicine—with an
increase of 21.66% in Arts,” snapped
the mathematical Dean. ‘‘Here, here,
what is this?”’

‘Today's line-up sir,” said a young
freshman of 17 summers, more or less.
His name was John Clark. You would
see his name in tiny print on the
Editorial Staff list of The Corona
Record—if you looked long enough.
John was the only freshman so far
appointed to the reportorial staff of
the Record and he was paying well for
his position by doing all the odd jobs,
such as handing out the ‘‘Record’s
Line-up of Today’s Game—win a prize
by counting the mis-spelled words on
the back.”

The Dean snapped on his glasses and
scanned the sheet.

“Are you going to try for the prize,
Daddy?” queried the pretty little
high school daughter—and nudging
her father continued in a lower voice:
“What's the boy’s name?”

“Oh, Mr. Clark, meet my daughter,
Ruth.”

And so they met. They chatted
about the college, the game, and
would have found other interstinge
topics only the Dean interrupted the
conversation by exclaiming: ‘‘They've
got Robinson on the team, and I

Ladies!
The Slickest all Rubber

Overshoe in Town at

$1.98 at

TUTTLE’S

SHOE STORES

25 Spring Garden Road.
557-559 Barrington Street
and Dartmouth.

Leather Goods
Last!

Students know—Kelly’s Leather goods lasts for years.
Treat yourself to a new leather
Portfolio or loose leaf book
See our assortment of Novelty
Goods—First floor.

Kelly’s, Limited

GRANVILLE STREET.

The Students’
PRINTERS

Dalhousians always come to
us when they want a good job
done quickly—and Dalhousians
KNOW!

THE ROSS PRINT

95 Argyle Street
Halifax N.S.

Food Values !

Thinking in terms of health
we cannot value our f
too highly.

That is why ‘‘ The Green
Lantern’’ insists on having only the best.

‘*EAT PURE FOOD ”
The Green Lantern.

ya

READ THE FIRST STORY IN TODAYS ISSUE

distinctly told the Student’s Union
that he couldn’t play—he.is only on
probation.” - |

“Has the Union broken faith with us
again?”’ the president asked because
it seemed a proper presedential question at the time, :

“Hurray, the Union has done something at last,’”’ said John in an undertone to Ruth.

“Here Clark, go tell the coach or the
captain or the manager of the team
‘that Robinson will not play today.”

“Yes, sir,”’ and then to Ruth as he
walked away—‘‘Curfew shall not ring
tonight. See you later.”

_“But Daddy, why don’t you let
him play? Don't you want our team to
waar > ;

‘This is a university, my dear, not
an athletic association.”’

Dr. Graham was bored—he looked
to the opposite side of the field where
500 Hiltord College whoopsters were
whooping. Then his eyes focused on
the eminent head of Hilford College.
Of course it was the proper thing tor
him to do as president of Corona to

welcome Dr. Weagle, this game being! didn’t care which side won as long as

played on the corona Campus—‘‘his
campus,” although as a matter of fact
the Student’s Union had built and paid
for the field and the stadium themselves.

Dr. Graham crossed the field. The
Corona cheering squad yelled ‘‘W-AL-L-I-E, W-A-L-L-1-E! W-A-L-L-L-E!
That’s him!!,”’ which was rather embarassing. He lifted his hat in midfield and attempted to thank them
with a grin but a dog nearly ran between his legs and he hastily resumed
his professorial dignity and went on his
way.

e reached the other side in safety,
and plowed his way past a screeching
mob of co-eds who yelled ‘‘Beaver”’ at
him. He swore he would never attend another football match again
even if the “College Spirit’’ Committee
did bring pressure to bear on him, Dr.
Weagle stood up. They shook hands.
The city daily’s looney staff photographer clicked the greeting and tho’t
he had a scoop but later discovered he
had neglected to replace the plate—
and so the picture was never preserved,
alas!

“Welcome to Corona,”

“Hello, Graham, how are you?
You're in for a trimming today, I’m
afraid.”

Dr. Weagle, of Hilford should have
been head of a house-to-house sales
corporation. Hehadannack of pulling
generous subscriptions for dear old

Hilford, “the College on the Hill,”} ordered Robinson off the team.”

from a disinterested but extremely
wealthy alumni. Another slogan he
used was ‘‘We build characters.”’ But
what kind of characters he never disee z
- “An ow is ‘the College on
Hill’?”’ asked Graham. - es
“Oh, we have our ups and downs!”
came back Weagle which started a
series of old jokes which even the
worthy head of Corona had heard

before.

* * * ok

John Clark hated to tell the manager
of the team that Robinson couldn't
play, almost as much as he hated to
leave Ruth McKean—but he went
through with it. The coach and the
captain and the manager formed a
huddle and swore—and then found a
substitute, admitting defeat.

*

By this time it was too late for’ then he sat down in his train seat and

John to get a seat on the Corona side

of the field. So he went over and sat]

with the Hilfordites, finding a seat
behind the presidents, where he could
hear them discoursing quite plainly.

“There’s Prof. Moran’’ exclaimed
Graham as a dear old professor with
van-dyke beard approached the
stand. The old gentleman was

Qe
~

Nova Scotia. Technical College

wildered by all the noise and was/ more interested in each other than in
hunting for a seat. the picture or the celebration.

“Over here,” yelled Graham, and| ‘The boys pulled a nifty on you toProf. Oswald Moran, known as ‘‘Ozy,’’| day, laurie,’ Ruth told her father in
to the students, head lecturer in/his den late that night—‘'Robinson
English and Rhetoric at Corona worked | played after all!’’
his way to the vacant seat between the “I know,” drawled Dean Laurie
two presidents. McKean, “I noticed him when he

“Ah, quite a rough sea, even for an/| first came on the field.”’
old salt, eh? How do you do, Dr. “Then why didn’t you raise a fuss?”
Weagle—do you realize that today is! queried the surprised little daughter.
the anniversary of a great English
naval commander? No? You surprise
me!”

“Then there’s the one about the lawyer named Strange—who had on his
tombstone, ‘Here lies an honest lawyer
—that’s—’’ but Dr. ‘Weagle never
finished his sentence for the Corona
band marched on the field playing
“Hail Corona”? with Owen O. Star at |
their head wielding his baton and an.
unsavoury vocabulary. The crowd, |
cheered, but none of the Coronians'|
sang—they never do.

Dr. Weagle now began to warm up.

“You're in for a licking.”

“Are we?’ queried Graham who

WSS

the ordeal were soon over.

“I’m calling on R. G. Stewart for
funds, tomorrow’ confided Weagle.

“But he's our benefactor,” Graham
complained,

“Vil tell you what we'll do—we'll
toss for him!”

“Why not put him up on the game?”’
queried Prof. Ozy, “I think that would
be a capital idea’ not meaning the pun |
which is the purest form of wit. “‘it|
would be like the French commander!
bargaining with the English at Port
Royal” he went on, “the identical |
same thing happened over two hundred
year ago, you know!”’

“All right,”” agreed Graham and the
two shook hands.

John of course was deeply interested |
in this, He leaned torward and tapped
the president on the arm. |

“Do you mean to say, sir. You're
staking our chances of getting coin |
out of that bird on Corona winning
today?”

“Why yes, why not?”

“We can’t win, that’s all. You’
forget, Robinson is out of the game and
he was our big hope.”

‘Dear me, something must be done.
Why can’t the Phi Phi Phis do something—they control the team, don’t
they?” (The Phi Phi Phis are the
fraternity opposite the campus, who
make a specialty of cornering footba:l
heroes and a lot of other dumb bunnies.)

“But you forget, that Dean McKean

SS

NS

A lovely box
for little Brighteyes and fragrant Turrets for
his own particular smoking.

CIGAR

Mild and Fragrant

“Oh dear, oh dear, yes now I remem
ber. Well if the Dean saw fit to do his
duty, I can't interfere.”’

“But you can—that's just the point,
thrusting his pencil under the President's nose, ‘‘Show the college for once
and for all that you’re behind us.
Give me a note to the manager and
I'll have Robinson on the field in two
minutes,”

“But Dean McKean?”

“He need never know.”

“By Jove I believe I'll do it!”

And he did.

It was a sorrowful crowd of Hilfordites who boarded the special excursion
train that night. Corona had won the
league by Robinson's Jone score.

“And to think,” soliliquised Dr.
Weagle, “I offered that chap a free
schoiarship to come to Hilford.”” and

Our High Quality Standard
makes cur Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

wearily pulled out his dog-eared copy
of ‘After Dinner Stories and How to
Spill Them’? by Rube Cohen and began
to read as the train pulled out of the
station.

That night Ruth McKean and
John Clark visited the local theatre
to celebrate the great victory with 600
other wild collegians, but the two were

GREETINGS !

OFFERS

ENGINEERING COURSES |

Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.

Write or call for Calendar or advice

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Just Arrived !

Samples for New Spring Suits.

We always have in stock
a large assortment of
Greeting Cards for

Anniversary,
Birthday, etc.

| ALSO
Valentines

FARRELL’S

New Store
446 Barrington Street

A complete Book—Stationery
; and Gift Shop Service

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

Sparkling new patterns in hard wearing

worsteds.
words—

Sityle--Quality-- Value

' Made to your measure $34.50

Colwell Brothers, Ltd |

453-457 Barrington Street

They speak volumes in these

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 Cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax,

‘ eS

. s
y Eek Vee
‘ SN 4
= k shy

RX
ie WN

SAS

“NICE MAN So

IMPERIAL TOBACCO CO
POPE RIAL TOBACCO CO CANADA WUMITED

‘Because,”’ replied the Dean, “‘in
considering his marks again, I decided
the lad was eligible. And besides I
had a $100 bet on Corona winning the
game.”

“Who with,"’ asked the girl, dumfounded.

Heo ree 7 ee See , aed
@.'‘Prof£Ozy Moran, lecturer; in, English and Rhetoric,” replied the canny
Scot. “Get to bed, dear. it’s late!’’

7

‘

\

ETTES

Save the valuable
“POKER HANDS”

net Paani eer Naebeiman

em

i % see e UES, HL Deen beh ARON oe TIMNUI mene”

Dear Dad —

We're having a hectic time
at College now, with all this
argument for a $10.00 fee,
but I dont mind paying $3.00
extra in fees when I can
save more than that on every
Dress or Coat I buy at
D’Eauville’s

Love,

Lou.

D fs auville ’s

ALL COATS $24.00
ALL DRESSES 12.00

in
HALIFAX
31 Spring Garden Road
Stores in Dartmouth and Windsor
Xe eee

ASS TEN i nceat ee ee ee Te ee ee ee ee ee

 
      
    
   
    
           
     
 
     
    
    
     
     
       
      
     
     
       
     
      
   
      
  
           
    
    
  
    
  
      
     
          
     
     
            
       

February 11th, 1980 . oo

ORPHEUS THEATRE.

MON. TUES. WED.
ERIC VON STROHEIM THURS. FRI. SAT.

in “ Hurricane”
A The Great Gabbo my A thrilling Drama of the

by J. Louis Dubinsky
Continued from last week.

      
     
     
       
     
        

  

 

eee | : a 14. Founded in the year 1889 the ;
: r of successful Rifle Club. Dalhousie to} Dalhousie Gazette has rapidly forged ee eee pear Moles ty ae Station

  

 

wat” re a i £ to the front of colle ublications. : “igh: 5 ¥y
eae be well represented. — It has the proud distinction of being einer att iis and Mie, Shiciedt of with Mae eae

Fp ¥ the oldest college paper in America.| Chatham, N. B., th ts of

History of Rifle Club. | winner, Spoons are also presented by| YES. NO, : [By Be Bay of Ottawa, one of Dal BETTY COMPSON Hobart Bosworth, Johnny
ao A the D. C. R. A. for those making scores} 15. During the Christmas examin-| housie’s great benefactors. YES. NO] || with a Singing & Dancing Chorus} Mack Brown, Lila Hyams

of over 500 Boys and Girls.
NO COMEDY 2Comedy Sound News

CASINO

 

  

 

 

  

  

The year 1929-1930 has seen an! of 279 and over in the three com tition ' ations, the Law students and occupied] 23 Unlike the majority of Unialmost new sport come into the lime-| The first of this series of matches will’ their usual position on the extreme! yersities, Dalhousie has never exper_ light at Dalhousie. Under the capable’ probably be fired during the last of|left of the gymnasium. YES. NO.|ienced at any time in its history a
leadership of Hamilton Baird, rifle| this week. 16. Directly facing the Science period of financial stress. YES. NO.
shooting was inaugurated into Dal- Building, the cormer stone of which was} 24 Dr. Eliza Ritchie is the only
 housie’s sporting activities in 1927. Dalhousie Riffe Range. laid by the Duke of Connaught, when] one of her sex to conduct a class at
_ From that on Dalhousie was repre- he was Governor General of Canada,| Studley, YES. NO.
_ sented with a team competing in the] Ope more notable feature which|stands the campus flag pole. YES.| 25, Since the inception of the
poe ed. C.&. A, inter-university outdoor makes this year very successful is the NO, : : Glee Club, plays have always been
_ fifle competition. In order to carry] (onstruction of a miniature rifle range|_ 17. A Dalhousie prophecy “For a) givenin English, YES. NO.

The

   

 
 

 

 

out this competition the Dalhousie by the University. The rifle Associa- Prince shall come forth to teach there; THIS WEEK : i
By rifle club was formed and continued to ks is very grateful to the college} yea, even a King will spread there the Mon-Tues-Wed Halif. ax Chronicle

 

OF erate with Paul Sullivan as its presi-|_ ithorities who have given every|truth,” has come true, YES. NO.

Gent in 1928, Thus a start was made possible encouragement to the progress 18. Cape Breton triumphed once WINNERS FROM THE WILLIAM AND

  

 
 

and much promising material was : tt. We now have an up-to-| again when Bernard Miller was made START
me Tec avered which greatly aided the Pn bve yard range in’ the | Editor of the 1929-30 Year Book. YES Pe GA tte ae 1 eh va eee eat H A ] N E S
| -— attempt made this year. basement of the gymnasium, where the | NO. at Ps eee the rade The
q re | 4 | rifle team and others can practice.) 19. Co-education is rapidly gaining ark on Sporting Goods has been
| eo Formation of Association. The D, C A. competition will also| ground. Today there is nearly one|}| ® mark of perfection. No matter In his first all-talking picture ; ;
er Pe, go co-ed to every male student in Dal- what your favorite sport may be, 9? H. lif. D l St
ae ¥e ete be fired on our new range. ! ry 1 th “NAVY BLUES atirax ay ar
After the reorganization of the Rifle shooting thoroughly deserves|housie. YES. NO. ; we can supply, you with equipment

  

3 Dalhousie C. O, T. C. this organiza- interest it has received this} 20. Dr. A. S. MacKenzie graduated that will help you play the game TEM Ae ce SA de ee
: Lae took upon itself the functions of oi a z oe which although not|in Arts from this University. He is| |] with the best that’s in you. Thur-Fri-Saturday
_ ‘the a

  

 
 

Dal Rifle Club and a new organiza- strenuous requires the competitor to be| Dalhousie’s fourth president, succeed- MIDNIGHT SHOW The
) tion was formed, namely, eee in the best Saale physical condition. ing the late Dr. John Forrest. YES, CRAGG BROS. CO., THURSDAY 11.30 .
University Contingent C. Eyesight is important but not to the} NO fastest growing

  

_. Rifle Association. This greatly facili- dy nerves and| 21. Georgeherbertcrowse is a Latin Limited " :

tated the opportunity of obtaining ele The Teidy of Hie shooting | word. sich means industry, study,||| Hardware and Sporting Goods Gold Digge zs d 99
eee eon, gt Pa ae a cc is an art in itself and it often takes many intelligence, an occasional escapade, HALIFAX, N. S. orbroadway

~ TRPMERT: Bt aoe ae handicaps. | Y°2"s of practice and study before one 100% Talking-Singing-Dancing
operating under the former handicaps. | ~.) really call himself a master of the ALL NATURAL COLORS
St , ; ame.

-. Outdoor Competition. : Dalhousie rifle shots are a credit to

ah | ..- _|the University and there is little doubt If You Want to See Well
As _ usual the outdoor competition |) + what we will be well represented

 
 

newspapers ip

   
  

Nova Scotia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 

| MACLEOD, BALCOM

  
  
 

 

g » 1 ( THE i
ze "3 bye oe . hy a rhe at the summer competitions held thru- SEE WALLACE ;
sent u ) ee h i 2 in Ott ; i ici LIMITED
. eo standing event of this competition out the province and 1 awa +" ee. nie sue WS: (; A R R ] CK L or d N e l son

as the remarkable score of 99 made by er
_ Jack Andrew. Sodales ec a geet 34 Morris Street

: THIS WEEK
Lie y caraen Ra “WED. and THUR. Hotel
203 Young Street oe (i “Hears

aL = a Bree.
Cor. Quinpool Road “RIG TIME” e Social Center

: The Ideal At h f
and Oxford Street With LEE TRACY and a your Saturdays Es wat ee

cast of Stage Celebrites cna? on dates ;

3 y other time
and Bedford for your Bridge parties,
FRI. and SAT. Dinners, Dances, Etc. 1: 13

‘‘Why Leave AFTERNOON TEA,

Indoor Team. | Continued from page 1.

att : _| Miss Leslie, then arose in support

wer 4 Sore re ee of the negative of the resolution and

- 2s Daihe taken, part. in. ie ere s stated that in spite of the fact that
eroecune if yeprescnted oY many people think the Senate a useless

 
 

#

     
     
     
       
         
  

 
  

HANES

HOE
HOP

we) :
Beetee) Cottison Indoor Rife zeae body, yet it protects minority rights

with teams from every from party politics. The House. of

 
 

 

ree flilitary Unit in the city. Seven Commons may be unfaithful to the
: oe er sh ate . constituencies. The alegaie of the
; ee markable sco for ee poe egies er eae this _ shots, sixty-five per cent of whom ha

 
  

>
Ska!

 

 

 

  
  

 

  

bs never fired under similar conditions not the case re mae F many
ett, eevee . ser : it is a great stabilizing influence an ; Orchestra—4.30 to 5.
ee ne foes Se wins places the tear | this. is Smost highly desirable, The|{] 28} Spring Garden Road PRINTING Home’’ er the top of ab cage eth “close | Feason for this is that Senators have MULTIGRAPHING
eee 22 arouse Roe ah ' areas more spare time to consider and weigh Is The College Stud- A Musical Comedy version SUNDAY CONCERT
cme epeetion from di oh the|the measures than the men in the , _ DIRECT MAIL of CRADLE SNATCHERS $6 6640'S, en
teams. Much credit is due to the) Conmons. ent’s Shoe Store. ADVERTISING oS eet eS EN a o Ne
members of the team who give two ee with an all STAR CAST
ayia tiara tr Baie The floor was then thrown open to the ; ; !
rg lights a week of their time in keeping) tio ice, Messrs. J. Louis Dubinsky, Bob Our Low Prices make our BLANK PAPER

  

Daih
ee aa

ve

    
 

~ ENVELOPES

NOVA PRINT,LTD

227-229 HOLLIS STREET

high quality Shoes doubly
attractive to both men and |
women.

.

        
    
          
     
    
 
        
      
     
      
      
       
    

  

Be OES a speak.

ousie in the forefront. Those] po iicche aK E Senithy want

; : : gsberg, and Kenneth Smith availed

_ Seine the Rifle Associa- themselves of this opportunity to!

: i AS iter Bennett, C. K. L. Baker,} After a brief rebuttal by Mr. O’

my MM nning Archibald, George Mahon,| Handley and Mr. Fairbanks a vote was
Sayre Chandler, Stuart Siackerty, Jack| taken, and the resuit was:—

The nearest Shoe store to the
llege

 
 

a

  

 

_ Andrew, Dean Tapley. rare ta We Keep Delivery Promises
“he Miniature Rifle Competition. Thus, Sodales has gone on record as
bt being opposed to the Senate being
oe ___ Another new competition will also] continued.
f be fired, namely, the D. C. R. A. mina-| Ernest Howse announced that: the

   
    
      
     
  
   
  

 
 

Get Your A. PUBLICOVER

Hair Cut 2 Shope
: LORD NELSON HOTEL

jat
Shield’s Barber Shops|||| 23 spRING GARDEN RD.

j ture rifle competition. This is fired} next debate would be held on Wednes__ with regulation rifle fitted with a 22|day, February 26th, the subject being
ness. inch bore and under indoor conditions.| the ten dollar fee, The place of the
- There are three successive matches, two} debate will be either the gymnasium
____ in February and one in March and any|or the Munroe Room and will be
member can compete. The team is}announced later. The meeting the

 
 

 
  

 
  

composed of the ten highest scores. | adjourned.

  

A notable feature of this match will be aio. oh Two Shops CENTRAL—The nearest Bar5 ve the, keen competition for the Sparling 41 Sackville St. and Roy Bldg. ber Shop to the College
f cs ere presented by Col. H. Seemieeteet ser) yas gt ee [Sth floor] SERVICE--Always experienced
_ GS. 0. of M.D. No.6. The member] jaughter. Johnny Mack Brown is Our Roy Building shop will Barbers at your service
_ making the highest aggregate score is} cast as the juvenile lead, a role in appeal to the ladies of Shir- Ss J ;
| the three competitions will be the|which he shines. The feminine in- riff Hall. portal oprns Parlors
pap or Ladies at

terest is centered in Leila Hyams,
ae who has the role of Hurricane’s daugha Y= ter.

Bets. Most of the action takes place
PAE the Orpheus aboard a wind-jammer, battling its
ae | as way through rough seas. A mutiny
“HURRICANE” IS DRAMA THAT] @board the craft provides plenty of
rusts 2 GRIPS AUDIENCE. thrills. The sound and talking effects
in wy Nd lend realism to the rioting which was
| Adventure, Romance and Thrills| impossible to obtain in the days o
Well Blended in Sea Drama. silent productions. There are a fef

  
         
      
 
    
 
    
     

Phone S448 for appointment.
Open Saturday evenings.

  

23 Spring Garden Road

 

a.

 
 

  

picturesque shots in a South Sea dive,
where the villain, Captain Black, a
pirate leader, is marooned with his

2 - es (Review)
A thrilling, all-talking motion pic
4"

} ture about a daring wind-jammer Th inceeis picakinws welll developed P an I t T BR ]
ae + whose emotions are as turbulent Ce eer aS re nvuen Ory a ing

x mighty deep on which he sails, | and true to life.

_ is being presented at the............

_ Theatre. It is a Columbia production, ;
ae ees by Ralph Ince, with Hobart} ‘‘The value of the college man to

i sworth in the title role entitled|industry depends more on_ industry

_  “ Hurricane."’ The picture is a mighty| than on the college man.’’—Edwin M.

-_— epic of the sea with adventure, drama, | Kerr, Vice-chairman Westinghouse Elec
romance and thrills portrayed with a| éric.
‘sweep that will grip any audience. ral
~ |. |, Bosworth gives one of the greatest “The day of the individual trustee ;
____ performances of his career as “Hurri-|is waning and the real era of the cor- ®
___ cane’ Martin, the bold mariner, admir-| porate trustee is just dawning.’’— of Tickets
Bee 1 ed by his men for his fearlessness, but| Charles E, Mitchell, chairman of the
_____ feared hy them because of his myster-! board of the National City banking
ious habit of indulging in maniacal group of New York.

: ae Millionaires

 

     
        
   
      
    
  

  
  
 
  

 

    
 
  
  
 
  
  

 

MEN’S
Eatonia NECKWEAR
] 00

 

 

   

 

  

 

 

 

em,
yi

a

or lt i Fe. f The next time you want your
Peer eliee b S tudents ®* Laundry finished in a hurry
fie, } and want it done neatly Call the

Excellent quality in a fine silk
Good range of patterns
The best value in ties

EATON C2

"MARITIME © LIMITED

   
   
 

 

df li

 

i, ” ‘

Lh Ld Ay
=

we 4S

a F

| a

4 7

oa)

L ai “For Particular People”’ Dry Cleaning, Sponging, Pressing

| HOME LAUNDRY “2"*”5:

Watch For It ! st
LESAGE OE SS OR

          
  
 

~

     

 

a ae ee
ar ¥

. 7 = a

[Tickers $2.00) Janior-Senior Ball

JOE MILLS

aT.
ee
es ae!  @

A 87 -Piece Orc.
OES ee

aad as
at

INSURE YOUR BID

to

|MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17th «r'». DALHOUSIE GYM | Delta Gamma

ale

es

Ce rT

‘ce
4a

 

bo)

 

 

a

 

a
a dis

wd
raat

      
 

ae er ore
ri Zr the i ee a r
ba reek Pe J
