   
     
 
 

| OUR AIM IS
|| TO GIVE LIGHT

 

  
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
 
     
  
    
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
   
 
    
    
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
    
 
    
  
    
   
    
   
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
  

VOL. LXIII.
ee.

7
Va

 
 

;
i
{ at
er
ro
t.
és

ie

 

 
  
   
  
  
    
   
    
   

J

i a

E z
1
7

    

W. C. MecKENZic
who heads the lists in today’s
all star dance programme

 

_ American Visitors
Are Entertained
By Sodales

Opening their debating tour of

Eastern Canada here in Halifax,

be Messrs Mi.:ton H. Wuiiams and Wilram C. Erskine, who met Dal last
Monday evening, arrived in the city
late Sunday night, and were met by
representatives of the Council, Sodales,

and their opponents.
Sodales Ce to acknowledge pub
licly. the i

 

oe ee

ie me

ve reat generosity of rine

Hill Pubidcties which kindly consented
j to billet the visitors during their stay
in the city.

oo Rade at 12.45 Radio, Station C.
H. N. S. was turned over to Sodales
for publicity purposes, and each of
the visitors addressed their unseen

4 audience for a few minutes, while
1B: Ernest Howse told of the debate that

( evening. Both proved most pleasing
/ speakers and a large number of students
¢ report having heard them.

‘An informal luncheon was held at
the Green Lantern at 1 when Williams
é. and Erskine were guests of the Students’
fi Council. Others present included the

Intercollegiate Commit tee of professors,
Editor of Pharos, Officers of Sodales,

and the two teams. A
During the afternoon the visitors
4 were shown through various parts of

the University, Medical School, Stud
ley, Library, etc., and were greatly

; pleased with the buildings. They also

viewed the scene of the evening’s con
flict.

' The Executive of Sodales were

especially pleased with the large turnout

for the debate. With roads almost

impassable everywhere, and with none

| too much publicity among Halifax

" citizens, the turnout was almost feared,

but excelled far above all combined

} hopes and over 300 attended the
we debate.

The U. S. Team were guests of

Sodales at 10.30 at a banquet held in

the Lord Nelson Hotel, following the

debate. Those invited to be present

were: Pres. MacKenzie, Chairman;

Hon. O. P. and Mrs. Goucher, Dr.

Clarence and Mrs. MacKinnon, Mr.

utd poetics and Mrs. Mellish; Ernest

Me owse, Helen Williams, Gordon Harris,

officers of Sodales; Messrs Milton

- Williams, William Erskine, John A. Y.

MacDonald, Cyril Greene, star per
formers of the evening; Gordon Cooper,

Arthur Pattillo, Tom MacDonald, the

Intercollegiate Team; Fred Jennings

and Tom Goudge, Students’ Council;

Geor Macintosh, Gazette Editor;

Bernie Miller, Pharos Editor; an

their guests:—Miss Gladys ao

son, Mr. Tom Coffin, Misses Polly

Burris, Margaret Cowperthwaite, Fran
© ces Elkin, Mary Crocker, Elizabeth

Carroll, Syd Wallace,

Molly Fulton and

 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

- Murray, Mary
_ Margaret Kent,
_ Mary Currie.

Although

| Ff over a day,

— Ove

in Halifax only slightly

    
 
 
  
   
   

them. ee spoke at
OF e€ '
inued on Page Four)

the visiting team made a
srofound impression upon all those who

every | me
the fine treatment | mittee, Sec

Overtime Victory
Quiniette Gives Championship to Dalhousie

MacRae scores lone basket in five minute overtime
Guards especially effective.

 

period.

Undergraduate Publication

   

  

‘

li

 

    

  
 
 

9

—- = Te
— = — a

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 18tu, 1930.

- TIGERS WIN CITY LEAGUE TITLE :

 

Over “‘Y’’

MacRAE
whose timely
basket won
‘'Thursday’s
night’s game

 

 

 

The Dalhousie Tigers annexed the
Hatifax City Senior basketball League

championship when they defeated the

Y.M.C.A. 18 to 16, in the most exciting

and hard fought game played this year.

At the end of the second period the

score was 16 to 16 and it took five

minutes of overtime to decide the
winner. The Dathousie Cubs were also
sictorious, defeating the Y.M.C.A.
i4 to 10, while St. John’s defeated St.
Joseph’s-19 to 10. The DathousieY.M.C.A. tussle was fast and exciting
with Dathousie leading the entire
game. The first period ended with
Dalhousie in the lead, nine to eight
The two teams started at a fast pace
from the opening whistle, and Y.M.C.A.
secured their first count when Beazley
scored on a nice basket, Fairstein open-.
ed the scoring for Dalhousie when he
tipped the bail in from under the net.
A few minutes later he put his team in
the lead when he netted a brilliant
basket from centre of the floor. Hill
tied the score when he intercepted a
pass. Beazley, who was playing a
reat game for his team, put the “Y”’
in the lead when he netted a basket
from centre floor. The middle of the
period saw Dalhousie putting on their
reserve forwards in the game. McLel‘an dropped in two baskets for Dal
housie, one right after another. With
about two minutes to go, Beazley took
the ball and shot from centre floor,
and the ball rolled in for a beautiful
score. Handler ended the scoring when

Fee

 

Misses Page and Miller to

combat

 

The big debate on the Ten Dollar , for

Fee Question has come at last.
Tomorrow (Wed.) night at 8 p. m.
the Munro room will! resound with
the verbosity of those who are so
openly in favor of the proposal,
and will echo and re-echo the loud
determined clamorings of those
against the raise and unafraid to
say so in public. This will probably be the only occasion before the
plebiscite when a meeting open to
the whole college will be held.
Yhe floor is yours just as much as
the other feilow’s. And the girls
must speak too-—for their vote
and opinion is just as valuable as
that of the male element.

George Macintosh, Editor of the
Gazette, will lead the forces who are
supporting the raise. George hails
from Sydney, received his B. Sc. in 'Z8,
and isin Dentistry ’31. Last year was
Secretary-Treasurer of the Council, and

has gained much first-hand knowledge |

of financial conditions under which
that body works. Prominent in many
activities—member of Phi Kappa Pi,
twice Basketball Manager, in cast of
“The Show-Off,” 1928 Convocation
Play, and other activities. As basketball manager and Gazette editor has
been compelled time and time again to
submit to having budgets cut for lack
of funds. ;

Miss Madeleine Page, B. A., is supporting Macintosh. Graduated in ’29
and this year will get her M. A. degree
in Philosophy. Member ot Gazette
Staff, Critique Editor of Pharos 1930,
and last year was leader of the Girls’
Intercollegiate Debating Team. An
able speaker.

In the person of Gerald Stewart,
B. A., the loud opposition in the Faculty of Law will have a worthy representative. Graduated last year from Mt.
A., and was Valedictorian. Son of
member of N. B. Government, and
speaker of fine platform ability. Attended school at Campbellton before
entering Mt. A. Last year was President of the Students’ Council, rink
manager, founder of the finance com
he was awarded a personal foul on
Archibald. The period ended with
Daihousie leading by one point. The
ame men started the second half for
osoth teams. Daithousie got away to a
whale of a start when she scored two
baskets and a foul without a return.
Fairstein and McRae got the baskets
and Davison got the toul Play now
became very fast with the ‘ Y”’ starting

 

Girls to Play
Dartmouth

a rally, Archibald and Stan Young
scoring. Y.M.C.A, missed a wonderful chance to tie the score when Beazley bv, ks iy hatliscieané. all: . 40", the
was awarded two free shotes. Failing Accniy - tedious and . see the girls’
to get either one. en SH a reat oP See
Peccilacs increased Dal’s lead to| st game of the season. They are
c 3 .

going to play Dartmouth at 8 o'clock,

  
  
 
 
 
 
  

four points when he scored on a nice
pass. from Fairstein. In the last minute of play Y tied the score Parker and
Young getting nice baskets. In the
five minutes overtime Dalhousie gained
the lead when McRae made a beautiful
basket from past centre. Fairstein
was the pick of the winners. He scored
six points for Dal. McLellan played
a nice game for Dal, his shooting being
deadly accurate and he was a constant
worry to the Y.M.C.A. guards, Beazley
and Young were the pick of the losers.

Dalhousie(—Forwards, R, McLellan (4), S. Fairstein (6), Nickerson,
Davidson (3), McRae (4), J. McLeod,
Guards, Anderson, Fraser, Handler (1).

Y.M.C.A.—Forwards, B. Lloy, A,
Mitchell, B. Beazley (6), Archibald (2)

and they expect to clean up everything.
Frankie is goal tender, she just won't
let the puck pass her.
little Tilly, Peg, and oh just lots of
others. And after this game comes an
hour’s skating.

Let us support our team. We want
everyone to turn out and cheer for the

Dalhousie girls. The admission is
only 25c. Let us see them on to
victory!

 

Dalhousie to have
Univ Residence?

Then there is

 

Question to be Debated
Before Sodales Tomorrow

ty of A. A. A., and President
of Eurhetorian Society, Has debated

S. Young (4), J. Hill (2), Guards Fordham, Winchcombe, Parker, Hamilton

(2).

The Students’ Council decided at the
last meeting that a letter should be
sent to the president of the University
asking if it would be possible to have
Birchdale as a residence for Dal men
students next year, This suggestion
seems to be a very good one, because
the accomodations in the past year
have been very poor.

To Discuss Birds

Mt. Allison against Truro Agricul- The
tural College. Ardent worker tor N.|club are assured of an interesting
F.C.U.S.; attended 1928 Conference at|evening’s entertainment on_ WednesKingston, Ont, Tomorrow night Sod-) day, February 19th, when E. Chesley
ales will hear him for the first time, Allen will address the club on “Birds
expounding forth theory as viewed from | of Nova Scotia.’’. Mr. Allan is an
the viewpoint of the first year law| acknowledged authority on bird-lore
student. and has previously spoken to the club

Miss Pauline Miller, Sc. '30,| on several occasions. The short course
supports Stewart. Former Basketball| students of the Atlantic Fisheries
Manager and track star, and present| Experimental Station are to be the
Second Vice-Pres. of Delta Gamma, | guests of the society at this meeting.
whose duties include management of | A good attendance is requested - as
girls’ athletics. An able speaker who|important business is to be discussed
will also make her first appearance.|Be on hand at 8 o'clock Wednesday
Tomorrow night, 8 p.m. MUNRO/evening, Feb. 19th in the Dental
: ROOM, FOKREST BUILDING. Theatre. Refreshments will be served
THE $10 FEE OR THE $7? after the meeting.

 

represent Co-edsin verbal

members and friends of the

 

 

All Star Dance Programme

 

As announced in the Gazette some time ago we are printing
herewith the male all star dancing programme. The following
list of male dancers was compiled from a list of twenty-five allstar programmes submitted by twenty-five of Dalhousie’s most
popular co-eds. The names occur in order of merit. ‘Fat’(Walter)
MacKenzie our Glee Club President heads the list having obtained
the largest number of votes.

Watch next week’s Gazette for the female programme.

1. ‘Fat’? MacKenzie. 9. Chas. Underwood.
2. Lavtrie Hart. 10. ‘Bob’ Brown.
8. Chas. Stanfield. 11. Fred MacLellan.
4, Fred Jennings. 12. Russell McLellan.
5. John Budd. is. ‘Hardv” Parker.
6. ‘Dippy’ Donahoe. 14. ‘Algy”’ Brittain.
7. Rolph Grant. 15. ‘Bob’ Donahoe.
8. “Hum” Harris. 16. Murray Rankin.

lst Extra Harvey Sutherland.

2nd ‘ Manning Archibald.

3rd ‘ Charlie Clark.

Ath ‘ “Drum Eaton.

5th “Bill” Maclsaac.

Those obtaining an equal number of votes have been placed in
the programme alphabetically.

 

 

  

   

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

    
 

No. 19

Condition of British Empire

is Upheld

“DAL DEBATERS WIN OVER U.S.A. TEAM

by Halifax

Debaters

 

Visiting speakers impress large audience.

President

A. S. MacKenzie occupies chair.

 

On Monday evening, February 8th,
the Dalhousie International  Intercollegiate Debating team emerged victorious over their American opponents
in an oratorical contest held in the
Gymnasium. The debate was of great
interest and was very well supported
by the students as was shown by the
large audience which turned out for the
occasion,

President MacKenzie, the chairman
for the evening, welcomed the American
debaters and. endorsed the feeling of
goodwill towards the United States,

The resclution was:—

“Resclved that the British Empire
is in grave danger of- disintegration.”

The American team to whom the
choice of sides had fallen, selected the
affirmative of tne resolution, leaving
our own debaters to uphold the negative

The personnell of the teams was:—
Dahousie—

Cyril J. Greene, John A. Y. MacDonald.
Americans—

Milton H.
Erskine.

Mr. Milton Williams expressed his
appreciation for the cordial welcome
which had been extended by Dalhousie
to Mr. Erskine and himself.

Addressing himself to the resolution
Mr. Williams contended that technically the British Empire isn’t an Empire
at all, because it is made up of sovereign
states. The word ‘empire’ presuppos
Williams, William C.

es a real supreme head and while this
may

have been the case with. the

 

 

The Staff of ‘‘Pharos’’ is busily
engaged in shining up the Light, oiling
the machinery, replacing old equipment, getting in a full supply of the
best quality fuel, so that next month,
the windy month of March, the Lignt
will shine forth in all its 198 brilliancy.

Every Dalhousian, no matter now
much illumination of his own he may
possess, will have to have the hght of
‘Pharos.’ To ensure this, he should
subscribe, which is easily done. Just
a few strokes of a pen on one of the
several subscription lists now in circulation, will ensure him of the Light of
1980 on his activities, not only this
year, but for the rest of his career.

Among the new machinery for
‘Pharos’ is the Feature Section.
Snaps of different classes and society
groups, intormal snaps of all kinds,
and of great interest, will appear among
the many bright flashes. A new departure in the form of Class Histories
will immortalize the mignty deeds of
the Graduating Class. Sport will have
a whole window of the Light devoted
to its radiance.

The exterior of “‘Pharos’” will be a
lovely warm shade of biown, with the
crest upon its portals. In short, the
whole structure will be something that
Dalhousie can well be proud ot, even
better and bigger than the 1929 ‘‘Pharos,’ which shone so brightly on exhibition in Toronto. Subscribe now,
and make sure of your guidance along
rocky coasts, by the light of your ow
Year Book, The PHAROS of the
College by the Sea.

 

—_—:

Coming Events

Weds. Feb. 19th.—C. O. T. C. Parade.
Sodales Debate on $10.00 fee. Broadcast of Kollege Kapers.

Thurs. Feb. 2U0th.—Glee Club Show.

Sat, Feb. 22nd.—Interfaculty Basketball

Tues. Feb. 25th—Glee Club Show
Newman Club.

Wed. Feb. 26ih.—C. O. T. C. Parade.

Fri. Feb. 28th.—Millionaires Ball, Lord
Nelson Hotel.

Sat. Mar. 1st.—Interfaculty Basketball.

Mon. Mar. 3rd.—Delta Gamma Dance.

Tues. Mar. 6th.—Student Council Elections.

Mar. 7th ffi 8th.—Model League of
Nations Assembly.

Mar. 8th.—Interfaculty Basketball.

APRIL 1st.—1930 Year Book on Sale.

British Empire at one time, it is no
longer the case at present. it is rather
a great federation. Further, disintegration doesn’t mean destruction, it
merely denotes a breaking away. This
being the case, the British possessions
will carry on by themselves: Mr.
Williams in speaking of colonial commercial treaties and Imperial Conferences stated that these were indications
of autonomy by the colonies. Many
other activities show the same thing,
such as the signing of the Treaty of
Versailles by Canada, and the sending
of ambassadors to the United States.
In reality Canada is a nation. For
over a hundred years the trend has
been towards independence and it is
logical that this move will continue.

The Britisa Dominions are really
sovereign and independent; only the
bond ot loyalty to the King in person
holds us together.

Mr. John MacDonald supporting
Dalhousie, and the negative of tne
resolution joined issue with Mr. Williams on his interpretation of ‘‘disintegration.’’ Mr. MacDonald cited definition{ from dictionaries showing that
it means ‘‘crumble.’’ The keynote
of the unity of the British Empire is
sentiment, which requires some crisis
to bring it out. This was well shown
in the war of 1812 with the United
states when Canada elected to figh
for the cause of Great Britain and the
unity of the British Empire rather
than break away and side in with the
Americans. A similar occurrence was
the Boer War. Again, in the Great
World War, Germany discounted the
great bond of sentiment holding the
Vominions together.

he growth of nationalism and
empire unity are not inconsistent.
We are relieving jai, !and of our burden
but the feeling of \o)aity still remains.
‘The general tendency 1s towards cooperation, not on.y witiin the empire
but also outside cu. it, witness the naval
conterences, ‘!icrcivre when unity 1s
the watchwo:a why shouid we want to
separate, and finaliy the key to the
situation i> ftouna in the maxim,
“Unity is stiongth,.”’

Mr. William erskine then attacked
the unity of the British kmpire by
showing that there was a slow division
into component parts. ‘lhe Empire
would be destroyed because kngland
has been intellijent envugh to delegate
independence iv the cclonies. In two
hundred statcs there cannot be complete unity csjpecially in view of their

diversihed inverests. (ngland hasn’t
an empire, she has dominions, and
while we have not been destroyed,

yet we ha-e disintegrated into autonomous states.

_ Mr. Cyril Grsene. As the dommions grow up they wii! unite as equals
and the growth of in-ependence does
not mean secession. ‘iheie is universal
agitation all over the worl:i ior unihcation, and should a de:nin:on see ht to
withdraw trom the rit.sh Lkmpire it
must of necessity be subordinate to
another nation. All througn the British Empire there is a spirit of co-operation along economic lines as evidenced
in trade agreements. To support the
affirmative of the resolution it must
be shown that a majority of people
desire secession from the Empire,

Finally, concluded Mr. Greene, the
great flexibility of our constitution
can meet any crisis which may arise.
The most enlightened nations of the
world are found within the British
Empire, and they see that to exist
they must stay within it.

each side was then accorded the
privilege of a rebuttal in which, wit
and humor such as is seldom heard,
abounded.

The judges: Hon. Humphrey Mellish
J. S. C., Rev. Clarence MacKinnon, D.
b., and Hon. Obed. P. Goucher, M. P.P
rendered a two to one decision in favour
of the Dalhousie team.

With the playing of ‘God Save the
King,” the debate ended leaving Dalhousie victorious.

KS. 'S.

We speak of people being in deadly
earnest, and there is a_ seriousness
which is indeed deadly.— Rev. W. H,
Hamilion, D. D,

 

  
     
 
    
 
 

   

 
    
   
 
 
 

jl
    
  

 

ene eet Py pik er ae paige rns ee é paie es om Ss
ESS Oe What College Did To Me
LOU Ss: e/ | NY (5 uzette | ; By “Mirgah.””
‘ as i a *: a : ce i sai {am Mirzah_ Go to dances
5 ‘ ce Ih els’ tig Papecta Ameiica.” Of the Mountain And to Glee Club
ai : 7 Sanditns Risiee. Who from Bagdat See theatres
’ MeCINTCs, B. SC. ~ RALPH ee te A. |Came to college, Never study,
ae Sree sth From the city To play Football
_ ARTHUR PATILLO Of the ages, Or Ice-hockey
1 bo ey TRGHOON 5 Of the dancers, Learn to love
‘ e siaGaes shes is ae Sport Editor. Of the wonders And to be loved,
4 WILLIAMS, P. A. OYLER. | Came to college, Do you know that
Associate Editors. To Dalhousie You are getting

MADELEINE PAGE, B. A.
GORDON COOPER
J. LOUIS DUBINSKY
Asst. Business Manager.
J. R. DONAHUE.
Phone Sac. 4086].

Subscription Rate $1.50 per year.
Gazette Phone Sack. 4866,

 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
    
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
    
   
   
    
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 

usin ss Menace.
ARCHIBALD.
Pree ‘L. 2291.

=~:

me ae
cw

~~

: Pu by WM. MACNaB & Son, 7-11 Bedford Row, Halifax, N.S.

’ 47 Ba aoe
a ie ~~ oe , x ne
we on
=<

‘AND ONE MAN IN HIS TIME PLAYS MANY PARTS”

ean
aa
i ‘
~~
a | €
tl

2 er ry
__ The members, coach and management of our hockey team are
be congratulated tor their spienaid showing in the return game
| the Mount Allison representauves. Local tans will recal: the
‘ game between these two teams, which was played here, when
_ our team was literaily “trounceda’’ by the Sackville collegians.
_ ‘Lheir showing up there was remarkable. in the first perioa they
F scored two goais while ter Opponents were unable to register
_ Uwing to lack OL practice anda tue proper conditioning necessary
lor a Winnuig team tue tigers Were unavie to Gupucate their per- formance of tue rst UWeuly muliuces Of Play in the second ana
‘third sessions anu Were Muse oF ess UULpiayeu lor the remainaer O1
oe

‘the above contains a lesson which is especially practical at
_ this parucwar ume. We have nuckey material in our couege
Wich i properly trained anu coacucu woud ve able to aeleat any
sie University team IN the Madarilines. siwurng tue present season our
_-~—Players have been ulavie tO practice vilelier than twice a week as
the mouney allotted tu tueln ior Luis pu. pose is necessary limited.
 ‘Lueir GOpponelts wave pracuces at wast uauy uluer tue supervision
Ol a Capauie Coach Wiicu accuUnts 101 Lele COMmparauvely spienaia
— COMGAUON, Wille OUr Iueu are al Lue present Lume merely approaching Wwe lorm Wich SiOuid bE Luelus al Lue Depiiting O1 Lue season.
_ ur hockey team neeas we pav.vy ice more at We present ume than
_ €ver beiore. 1M tie SO Caleu Day Gays O1 1941-c4 IL 1S true that
Wwe Maintained a team on We NOW madcquate iee O1 P/.UL but, th_n
fortunately, tne oia city ieague Was itourisnaing and Valhousie had
a practice nour at tne Arena aulotted to them, uauly, Iree o1 Charge.

| It is more or less amusing these days to hear those who are
ie «mot quite sure whether our nuckey team periorms at the koium or
#356 at the Wal gymnasium trying to lei tue Various managers and
— council memvers how much money snoulid be necessary ior this
Fr that parfticuiar phase o1 tne acuvily. Une araent aavocate ol
the present levy, wuom it is to be noped is atypical, was quite in_ dignant when told wnat the hockey team could not possibiy go
ot through an average season with oniy six hockey sticks.
y

___It was equaliy amusing, for us at least, to hear three members
_ of the Medica: scnool, at a recent meeting oi their tacuity denounce
our publication, in no uncertain terms. fossibly we should resent
a ha ing Our etiorts labelled as “‘tripe’’ or “‘pitile’’ by those who are
____ justly adverse to a proposed change and who autumaticaliy become
ie rejudiced against any party or person who chooses to difler with
them. ©
_-_-«*-‘The fact that the Medical Society (composed of over 125
__ members) has contributed through three students, three columns
of the tour hundred and thirty-two which we have edited to date,
* may have tended to alleviate our expected resentment to the
_ charges of the above menuoned non contributing critics. Do not
_ infe that the Gazette is adverse to constructive criticism from non
contributors. We are decidedly not. We realize that many have
not time for writing, others wrongly believe they cannot write but
__ these particular otienders have established a precedent by labelling
“tripe’”’ and “‘piftle’’ which leads all to believe that

7

our efforts as
__ ovr cclumns do not even tend to produce an environment suitable
_ for the reception of their writings.

x . _ Itis difficult at times to see where those (Editor excluded) who
give so unselfishly ot their time and efforts in order that we may
_ have a publication, receive incentive to carry on their work from

week to week.

ve The recent rumpus over Church Union and the present agita___ tion over the $10.00 fee are analagous in that they have been both
_ induciye of a manifestation of the greatest interest on the part of
-allir incidents and activities which had been previously conducted
by those who voluntarily interested themselves merely because
they were primarily concerned with the advancement of those
die activities. |

“All the world’s a stage

And all the men and women merely players
They have their exits and their entrances
And one man in his time plays many parts.”

 

OUR AMERICAN VISITORS

_ _ It was our privilege last week to hear and entertain two visiting
American college students.
_. In the by-gone days of the silent movie the all-talking
_ American collegian was practically unknown to the average Cana_ dian undergraduate but since the advent of the sound pictures we
ve become more and more familiar and impressed with out codents to the south.
‘Those of our number who were so fortunate as to meet the
ing debaters during their short stay at our University were
ly impressed with their deep interest in our University
Although they lost the debate to us by a narrow margin
omplished a great deal by impressing their many hearers
friendly conditions existing between Canada and their

P
ar
4

aor *
eee . Iv be ~
nee spot ie :
Re i ee
Ys i Fas oa pak ond ot —s ; ; :
a dees De hcg ce ay
] a Ce ‘ J

Turned my footsteps Such a background

Long ago. For the future

—2— As can never
What I learnt there Be surpassed
Beye rs

By any other
Such a life.

Is surprising,
Most extremely
Confounding, i
There’s a damn sight

More to College

For when now I
Think it over

Is more precious Than the av’rage
Than the Golden Undergrad’ate
Or Sophisti
Cated Co-ed

Shiny Money

That is wrought in
Ancient Bagdat, Ever sees.
And in all of

The Creation

Till he’s put it
All behind him
Not a soul in

All the college

Can you realize
It, Men
—3— Ever knows that
You who learn to That is more than

Skip your classes, Just ‘‘Degrees.”’

 

Law, a Splendid Training for
Modern Business and
Public Life, says Writer

ARTICLE THREE.

 

or presiding at public or semi-public
meeting, or the writing of articles in the
columns of the press. In each case, it
is desirable that the executive concerned
should fulfill his duties in an able, sound
and pleasing manner, and thus secure

A Legal Training as an Aid in
Business Life.

By Darrell Lang.

The value of a study of the law con
On The Futility
Of All Degrees

Dear Mr. Editor:—

The “Gazette” of late has featured
a number of Articles on the subject of
Degrees. One advocates a degree written in such a vernacular so as to shed
no blemishes on a name like Mulloney.
Another upholds the Latin Degree.
And still another ponders over a ‘‘HalfWay” degree such as the Arts Degree
is supposed to signify. His ideal is the
Science Degree where he knows that
the atomic weight of Hydrogen is one.

The present writer takes issue with
the other writers in that he is totally
opposed to the system of confering
Degrees at all.

The real student attends a University for the main purpose of acquiring
knowledge in the particular field he is
interested. Knowledge, and not a
parchment sheet is the goal he strives
to achieve. As for the others who have
ulterior motives than that of knowledge,
ought they to be ganted degrees?
Surely not. The writer of course does
not intend to convey the impression
that pleasure ought to be abandoned,
but he does most emphatically deny the

justice of granting an Educational,

Degree to those who believe that
Education ought to be subordinated
to good times while attending the
University.

Under our present system, a student
who has acquired a vast amount of
knowledge in other fields than those
specifically required for the degree is
given the same award as the one who
has crammed just hard enough to get
a bare pass in the examinations. While
one may have acquired the ability to
reason, to write, to speak intelligently
on diversified subjects; the other has
learnt how to dodge examination questions, to have good times and be rewarded with the same degree as the
student who works hard. Of course
im reality they are not on the same
plane., The futility of the Degree lies

in the fact that he who has not worked *
hard for his Degree will be handicapped |
later on, but for the time being, they pill”

are equal in the eyes of the world,-by
virtue of the fact that they possess
identical paper medals.

Another reason for the Futility of
Degrees today is that a degree really
meant something years ago. It was
indeed a feat twenty years ago to obtain a Bachelor of Arts Degree. Today
they are commonplace. A diamond
has no value in itself, bjt it’s value
lies in the scarcity of the gem. Similarly with the College Degree. Today
most Modern Universities are nothing
more or less than factories with the
underlying principle that MASS PRODUCTION affords it the greatest
efficiency. Is it not a common observance that at out Universities, the
students are given a certain majority of
compulsory classes so that the ultimate
result is that they are turned out pretty
much the same. Individualism is lacking. The principle of Mass Production
dominates, and the value of each Degree
diminishes directly as the production
increases.

 

h 4 j

College Briefs °|

agi a

The Phi Kappa Pi Fraternity held
their annual dance and banquet at the
Lord Nelson and Halifaxshotels respectively on§Fridaygand Saturday,

Feb, 7th and 8th. Robert Baird was ©
in charge of the banquet while Messrs.
Hank Hebb, Dick Humphrey and
George Whiteley made arrangements

for the dance. Music was supplied

by the Haggarty orchestra.

Dr. Chas Baxter, Dr. Ron Forbes,
David Matheson, and Fat Irving,
prominent members of the Dalhousie
Alumni spent the week end of Feb. 7
in the city.

Miss Betty Condon, who has
accepted a position in the public library at Moncton spent several days
last week in the city the guest of Miss
Virginia Irwin, South Park St.

The Phi Rho Sigma Fraternity
held their annual banquet at the Queen
Hotel on Tuesday evening of last week.
Tabby Bethune and Art Ross were in
charge of the arrangements.

Gerald Keefe, Dent 31, recently
entered the Victoria General Hospital
for treatment. His many friends are
hoping for a speedy recovery.

Hugh Kennedy, Class 32, returned
to the city on Tuesday morning after
spending the week end in Montreal.

Dr. Max MacOdrum recently returned from Cape Breton. During his
stay on the Island he addressed several
gatherings in connection with the
Dalhousie Extension course.

$1 OF ee willGreatly Help Badminton

 

Strange as it may seen, the game of
Badminton has attracted more interest
this year, among the average student,
than has any other game. One may
visit the Dal gym any day and see a
few courts in action and the “feathery
floating in mid-air. Perhaps the
reason for its popularity is the rapidity
with which one may acquire the technique of the game. One may enjoy.
merely dallying at the game for a couple
of sets, or else indulge in a vigorous
match to loosen up some of the stiff
joints.

A Snowfall in
February

I watch the snowflakes idly falling
Soothingly they drift to earth
And, while I watch, each tiny snowflake
Gives imagination birth.

 

 

 

Dreamily I start to wonder,

Whence these fluffy nymphites come
Has it been a long, long, journe?

Left they many sisters home?

And why they come! They are beauty
Beauty so divinely pure,

sists not only in the actual substantive
knowledge acquired, but also in the
training of the mind to think logically,
to retuse, pending further investigation,
the solution which appears so sound
at first sight and not to rest content
until the problem has been thoroughly
explored in all its ramifications. It
theretore follows that a legal education
must be of very considerable service to
a person, whether or not that person
engages in the actual practice of law,
or devotes his attention to some other
form of business. A legally trained
mind is not necessarily better fitted
than other mind to sift the chaff of a
problem from the wheat, but at least it
may be fairly said that it is trained to
do this, whereas the other mind must
rely on native shredness. Therefore,
assuming that the practical experience
and native ability of each mind are more
or less equal, then the person possessing
a legal training will have the better
chance of success. The problems that
confront the business man are not so
very different from those with which a
practising lawyer has to deal. In both
cases there is a mass of matter which
must be studied in order that the real
crux of the problem may be ascertained,
and this process of elimination is not
simple. It is very easy to get a wrong
view of the situation and it is here that
a legal training is of real value to a
business man.

In addition to this training of the
mind, there is the actual knowledge
that a legal education furnishes. Business men are very much concerned with
the sale of goods, with fire and marine
insurance and with peepee ey: They are
also concerned with company law and
interpretation of statutes relating to
various matters. Very often contracts
involving considerable sums of money
are negotiated by letter or by telegram,
and the phrasing of such letters or
telegrams is naturally of great importance. Commercial Law and Corporation Law undoubtedly constitute the
widest fields of legal activity and as the
subject matter of these two branches of
the law is the same subject matter with
which the business executive is daily
concerned, it is Roper that a knowledge of that which is required and of
the interpretation placed upon certain
sets of facts by the Courts is definitely
helpful. A knowledge of the law wiil
inform the business executive of the
danger points in commercial transac
tions and thus enable him to avoid
certain unfortunate situations, whicha
person not possessing, a knowledge of
the law would be very apt to encounter.

Finally, most business executives are
called upon at one time or another to
appear before the public. This appearance may take the form of addresses,

for the corporation he represents the
respect of the community at large. A
legal education is perhaps the best
training that can be obtained for this
purpose. It teaches quick and accurate thinking and is conducive to clear
and concise writing. It tends to create
a feeling of self-reliance, which is very
necessary in public life and which is
most essential when the unpopular
aspect of any controversy has to be
presented to the public.

It is fair to say that a person possessing a university training, and. more
especially a person whose university
work has led them along the paths of
the law, has a better chance of success
in business than a person without
such a training, provided in every case
that the native abilities of the two
people are more or less equal.

A legal education is not, by any
means, a royal road to success in
business, but it is a very real assistance
along tne way and anyone possessing
it will find the rough spots smoother
than they otherwise would have been.

 

Skit Supposed To
Be Funny Says
ger &.

34 Larch St., Halifax, N. S.,
February 12th., 1930.

The Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:—

I reply to a letter that you published
in the Gazette of Friday last I would
say that Mr. W. H. J. is perfectly right
in everything that he says, except that
I made a “scathing denunciation of
statistics.’’ That skit “On Statistics’’
was supposed to be funny; but the very
atmosphere of deep study in which Mr.
W. H. J. lives seems to have obscured
this fact from him. I sincerely deplore
this condition and it was in the hope of
doing to lighten the gloom that I wrote
the above-mentioned bit of satire. [|
am very sorry if I have offended Mr.
W. H. J.’s feelings; but I hope that he
will now realize why it was written,

Yours truly,
J. F. CAHAN.

 

Filling hearts with gladsome wonder,

The thing to do is to abandon these Giving happiness, I'm sure

‘paper medals’’ and to let Merit,
Individualism, Ability, and Achievements be the criteria for judging the
successful student.

Sincerely,
PROGRESS.

Deep contentment,
See Ae my heart with bliss,

én light, softly drifting, nymphites
Come to fill our world like this. :

DREAMER.

peaceful musings,

 

NEW SPRING
HATS

A complete stock of Snappy

Felt Hats for College men

SHANES
Mens Wear Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN RD.

Leaders in

Sport

ao
S

Send to Phinney’s for that Football—
Basket ball—Baseball Supplies—Fishing
Tackle, and be sure of getting Quality
goods, befitting the largest Sporting
House in the East. : : . °

SPECIAL PRICES TO

CLUBS

 

BARRINGTON STREET - HALIFAX, N. S..

nse

 

LY
pets i

MS
A
.
]
—

a oe iat eye. an J
esi! i
Liar pitas T (| a_i

 
i

   
  
  

iu

  
  
 

oe

: ; , Pa Pa s A , 5

,
oe 2
7

   
  

UHOUSIE GAZETTE; 
  

   

 

ope
— Ag ;
“. 2 oe i = ft wean
. *%; re a = +. a * ‘
‘ % e # = - “A
ar aren tal rae ld
Bee ee LO a Ye Oe i eg ake

   

— . Ss

Pd Die for Old Corona ! ”’
A Brand New Story of Life in An Imaginary College

By a New ‘“‘ Gazette ”’ Story Writer.

      
   

 

 
 

READ THE SECOND STORY IN TODAYS ISSUE

    
 

   
 

— ——

 

——

I'd Die for Old Corona’’
: By George J. Greene.
CHAPTER TWO.—‘‘THE PLA YER’S CLUB TRAGEDY.”’

The characters in this story are purely ficticious. If you think you recognise any living persons, certainly none are intended. The characters are

 

66 interested in and read until an early
‘|hour in the morning. In fact so en
; engrossed had be become in the adventures of one Dubosque and the
pleasant memories the lines of his
play recalled that he was awakened
trom his reverie to find that he was in a

‘Are these what you mean, Pumpy?”

John appeared in the doorway with two
old fashioned pistols in his hand.
_ “Yea, L’l{ put the blanks in for you.
Say where did you find these? Sedgmore. was going to bring them over
himselt.’’

several wise cracks whispered around
on the finish of this statement. But
not tonight. The college wits were
shivering—there was a cold silence.

“‘We do not suppress truth—we revel
in it. At other colleges this sort of
thing would be hushed up, but I

clearing the good name of Corona—

at present we are all under suspicion.”
Hugh Edwards a Senior in Arts sat

in the front row with Eileen McMann

—“Something awful has happened

Do you think Wallie has got into

trouble and skipped out?” The girl

   
     
   
  
 

maine
y a
i

_ having such a worth while friend to] Pat and Mike,’ and then the whole | ®U22Y Sout. il h aR Oe, gue wernt Ae |
' guide him during his first year as a| crowd have to listen for the tenth time], ®t “We College the halls were a-|better. Now everyuung U. K. out
S °Bak-Rah boy—for hadn't Carl already |to the mustyjold joke on the Irish twitter with excitement—everyone was|iront¢ Hey! you ape get of that

. _| Caiking about the piay. John fnishea|stage. Orcnestra stand by. Al right.

fs? : ae
-__ .Carl was good-looking, an idol of the} and he’s always roaring with laughter |W20™ Carl, Daniels termed “‘Stout| the Corona Kecord said the next day. |
| college women and a keen debater.|—and the giris are too.” tellow.”’ ‘“Pumpy”’ who is not a deli- i, House lights,’ Graham Snapped.
_ -—s He had a nack of sizing up people and “They have to—il they want to get cate little chap as you might have] ‘Stand by on the stage. Good lucb
_—s- to-night as the two sat tting with| through. Oh Pattie is funny alright | SU'USed, was sweating some pieces o! | Clark old boy—give it to ‘em til it
“pipes stuck in collegiate fasnion in|—he's worth laughing at—but his jokes|®°C2°TY- __,,| Hurts. Wish 1 were young mysell.
A their respectivemouths, Carl was telling | aren't.” Something tells me this show isn’t} Go in and win—do it tor Oia Corona,

aay! i

) 5 %
_

; i

the first time.

- lege is.

‘. + solely from the author's imagination.

b John Clark was beginning to like Corona,
enough to be interesting to an energetic, young fr
i At Corona there is no male residence, unless you could cali the
. cae theologue college hall a residence.

*) side St. George’s Hall—because he preferred to board in the city and enjoy the
____ privileges of the free citizens of our country. His roommate was Carl Vanieis,
a second year Law student with a clever brain and a rich father, two ideal assets

for a law student and a roommate.
John was more than fortunate in

given him pointers on how to get
away with the least amount of foul
play at iniation, and hadn’t Carl explained carefully how to rush through

‘registration without filling out too

- many forms, and hadn’t John received

explicit instructions on how to fool the
profs

the newcomer something about the

personnel of Corona University, as

time, when you come down to the Law
School—then you'll realize what colOh—you'll get a kick out of

it for a while—we all do. For instance

-y™4——_- you'll like second year English. Fred/ dy Baker is giving it still isn’t he?

You know, he spouts all that stuff

about Cambridge, because he’s an old

+ hy oe
i

Cambridge man. Freddy is the typical absent minded college professor—

and knows it—he believes in the old

eee

English customs of drinking beer and

_ going to lectures for the sole purpose of

.

   
   
   
   
    
   
  
 

amusing his classes. He uses College
Humour as his text book—and believe
me you can learn more of Shakespeare from that little fellow in his own
comical way then through all Ozy
Moran’s lectures put together.”

“Say Carl what’s that Philosophy

rof like—what’s his name—Scott
isn't it?” :

“Oh you mean, Pattie Scott. Oh
he’s just a Scotchman with an Irish
name and say does he hate the Irish?
All he does is spend his spare time
digging up old jokes on them. He
always begins his classes with, ‘No

 

It was a little college—but large
n, away trom home tor

John had preferred to remain out
doubt you have heard the dne about

Quite a politician Pattie is too—goes
out on the stump during every election,
but the funny side is—his side always
loses, I mean his side always is the
funny side.”

“Gee, I really thought he was funny.
I mean you always see him in the hall
with a lot of giggiing girls around him

“Well tell me Carl, what's this
Player’s Club like everybody is talking

of the shows are good. But most of
them are louzey. What’s the one tomorrow night?”’

“Why, [ think the poster in the
Science Hall said it was for some
prize competition, ‘““The Lyon’s Mail”
{ think.”

“Gee is that coming off, tomorrow?
Well that ought to be worth seeing.
Albert Graham told me he was going to
attempt something big this year, but

-I neves thought he'd wish ‘‘The Lyons

Mail on us. That’s a Martin Harvey
job—who’s he got in the lead?”’

“A fellow by the name of Sedgmore?”’

‘““Wallie Sedgmore?—oh he’s good!
He’s been playing:heavy roles tor a
number of years here and he’s turned
in some mighty fine work. Son we've
got to take in that show. You know
Albie Graham is an old friend of mine,
and he’s a good tittle director even if
he does wear a mustache and ij tni;
show is in the Player's Club Shield
Competition it’ll be worth the half
dollar levy.”

“I know darn well I’m going. I
have a particular interest in that show

very cold room and his roommate was
in none too good a humour.

“Put that damn lignt out Freshman
and get to Ded, its three o'ciock.”’

And jJonn siowly undressed repeating
line aiter lune OF his 01d schoul piay.

‘The next morning dawned duit ana
foggy. it usually did in Wartmore,
ana nothing couid be done apout it,
in spite Ol the Many compiaints o1 the
Corona students wno came trom the

his Classes and instead ol going to the
library with one or two of tne other
students—he went straight tor the
gymnasium where the evening’s en-~
tertainment was to take piace. Here
he tound the genial president of the
Piayers Ciub, “Pumpy’’ MacDonaid

-going to be so hot, to-night,’’ Pumpy

spitted out.

“Is that sor’’ came back the president, “‘well it would be a great help
if you’d cut the gab and play the lead
with this scenery—1 need a rest.”

~Teiephone, Pumpy.”

Pumpy pulled himself together and
made tor the nearby telephone booth.
He returned with tbe sweat pouring
down his forehead.

“Where's Clark?” he yelled.

“Look here Clark, that was Albie
Graham the director of this show, he
says that Wallie Sedgmore the principal
and our only decent actor in the college
is feeling low with a cold. Now |
think that Sedgmore will be able to pull
through and take his place tonight
but in case he can't—stand by with
your lines.”

“You don’t mean to say you’llgive
me a chance in the lead?’’ queried the
surprised Freshman.

“I didn’t say a thing. .It isn’t my
idea. But Wallie Graham is bound to
have this show go on tonight, the
tickets are sold and all the profs are
coming. Personally I’d rather call the
whole thing off than put a ham in the

“they were in my dressing room,’’
replied John.

rumpy began to fix the pistols for
the piay.

“riuuo this is funny, darn funny in|
it’s |

fact. Ilhis pistoi is smokey,
been fired Out oO: recently.”
“these actors just wit have their
fun.”’ put in Grauam. “Are you ail
set lor the part Ciarkr Stage ready.

fiey, put that tavie around Straignt |

Urcnestration.”

ihe orchestra, under the direction of
Owen U. Starr were given speciic instructions tO Watch the leaders baton
and aiter a lew COarse Vue Oaths ‘they
struck into a sweet Overature that
cast a speli Over the capacity audience,”

Keady. CUKTAILN.”1.
But John was too bewildered to reply.

young ftreshman was going to take
Sedg more's piace aiter only a tew hour's
notice,

The first act went off rather slowly
but the audience were most sympathetic. John put his heart and soul into
the part in the second act—and won
the audience. The curtain rang down
atter the act with Jobn, the hero ot the
hour. Even worid wise Carl Daniels
remarked to some of his lawyer iriends,
“The kid's clever, | didn't think he had
it in him,”’

As the curtain fell for the last time a
tremendous ovation was given to
John—he was presented with a gift by
the President of the Player’s Club.
it was the happiest and most triumphant moment of his young lic. Lhe
great audience of a thousand or more
including the most influential professors
were pleased with his performance and
thundered their appreciation. ‘Then
there was a moment’s silence as the
orchestra rose to play the National
Anthem. The silence was broken by
a stir and a cry at the back, “The
President.’’|

 
    
  
  
   
   
  
 

believe it is my duty to tell you—so
that we might all join together in

     

 
 

 
  
 

 
 

    

 

screamed.

one who had gone through the ropes|about? There’sashow tomorrow night| | Wy | think The Lyons Mail is a] He stumbled on the stage, and was EE | ;
in eee ona newt ee fa araas tiking ey isn’t there?” _ oe | swell ea _ John volunteered, 1} greeted with tremendous applause— TURRET Turrets mild
“An Arts degree is a damn waste of “Yea, I believe there is. Aw some | P/@yed the lead in it myselt last Spring.” | or it had been whispered around thata Len and fragrant

Continued on Page Four

 

    
 

—and they
always help
when good
fellows get
together.

RRET

CIGARETTES

 
 

Mild and Fragrant

 

IMPERIAL TOBACCO CO
Of CAMADA LIMITED

 

Save the valuable
“POKER HANDS"

 

 

—I played the lead in it myself at | Part.” DF) te And in walked R. Waldo Graham, | ——————— — —————
: Brookton High last Spring—and say did I'll be ready to go on at eight if you|head master of Corona University,
I have them laying out in the aisles, need me.” John said as he made his| with Dean MacKeen at his side ac- ; ‘ 3
well ask me—and besides they roped | W4Y home for his lines. companied by three or four Phi Phi Phi Our High Quality Standard Sf
me in to helping ‘em with the scenery, At 7.45 that evening Pumpy Mac-| Fraternity men. All wore very grave makes our Low Price Temes —~ HE ¢ ——
G A McDonald such as they have.” Donald and Albie Graham were pacing | countenances. The two professors mar Doubly Attractive } i
22° “You soft egg—sweating over scen-| UP and down the dressing room. ched solemnly up the aisle and kept on j

   
 
   
     
    
  
  
   
 

 
   
   

i.
or

   
    
  
 
 

eens |] Serra COLWELL BROTHERS || “°2csu%es ;
» |] LAUNDERING —DyEING |/||/_ L LIMITED McDonald Music Co. HALIFAX
bof PRESSING |] The Green Lantern. 453-457 BARRINGTON ST. - HALIFAX |f||| 93 Barrington St. Halifax. |||||| ee Carden Road

 

‘a
- %
Z 4

TOBACONIST

Smokers Requisites of every

description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported .

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

 

 
 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SACK. 4444
Halifax Only Metered

      
    
       
      
        
    

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

 
   
 
 
   
      
  
   

 

HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR

Your Suit or Overcoat
Shaped and Pressed, for
60 Cents.

hy

 
   

f
bh

| NECKTIES, cleaned 10c,

UNGAR’S

     
   

     
 
 
  

   
   

€

ery for that dumb crowd. Why you
won't get a decent chance to see the
show.”

But John was destined to see more of
the show then he bargained for.

That night when Carl was lying in
bed reading ‘‘Selected Cases on Equity”
and La Vie Parisienne, John had
rumaged around in his trunk and come
across a play script which he became

 

 

 

“I don’t understand this thing at all,
“Graham was complaining, “I saw
Wallie early this afternoon and he said
he had a bit of a cold. I left him in
his room at the fraternity and the poor
fellow seemed worried to death. He
said he’d been playing too much with
that stock company down town and
was tired out. I left him telling him
to get a good rest. And now the boys

es ALLA

going, mounting the stage. The audience were as still as death. John,
MacDonald and Albie Graham the
director with the othes players crept
back on to the stage. :
The President's deep sonorous voice
broke the silence.
‘Corona University has a reputation
and a tradition we are all proud of,’’
he began. There was not the custom
SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

Se peere amg Somat

9 mee

from the fraternity say he told them|ary applause that usually greeted the

he couldn't possibly go through with | president when he announced this old gigi ada jog cal i
. the show, he has loeked his door and | familiar quotation—the audience was Ti a T il '

——— jj | left a sign that, under no circumstances | chilled by his words—they were afraid. Ip op allors

 

BIRK

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

 

 

us when they want a good job
done quickly—and Dalhousians
KNOW!

 

   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
     

Food Values !

Ttilvking til tetris of health
we cannot value our food
too highly.

That is why ‘‘ The Green
Lantern ”’ insists on havying only the best.

 

 
  
 

   

   
  
   
 
 

 
   
   
   
 
    
 
  

is he to be awakened till morning.”

“Well, we'll have to make the best
of it, have you got that Freshman all
ready? What about those old pistols,
Sedgmore was going to borrow from the
Palace Theatre?” Pumpy asked in
showman fashion,

 
 
 

5

Nova Scotia Technical College

ENGINEERING COURSES
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining

 

New arrivals every day in Men’s Wear.
[ Sparkling new styles and color effectsin

TOPCOATS and HATS

 

The president hadn’t left his comfortable home at this hour of the night to
expound before the Player’s Club on
Corona traditions.

“At Corona we believe in Truth,
Freedom, Equality, Fraternity.” Any
other time there would have been

   

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

  

SHIRTS
SUITS

     
  

   
 
  
  

 

   
  
   
       
     
        
 
 
 
   
 

  
    

     
     
   
   
     
     
 

THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Berrington and Sackville Sts.

 

 

 

Service Limited GREETINGS !
Same Rates 24 Hours. oo eae OFFERS

We always have in stock
large assortment of
Greeting Cards for

FARRELL’S

New Store

 

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

SS i

en. Te

vee CNS 41s aa metre DP

Stirs ulead

3 ¥ ;
The Students To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma a
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience rt a etc.
| BUTTONS ON PRINTERS Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each. cen
RENTS MENDED Tathauslans always comets Write or call for Calendar or advice Va ] entines

| Laundry to Ungar’s. THE ROSS P RINT Signs 446 Barrington Street versity. JI like the new

are 95 Argyle Street A complete Book—Stationery siory—but the old story

|| VALETERIA Halifax - - - N.S. of and Gift Shop Service about D’Eawvilles dresses

ce soeee jor $12.00 and coats for
A new pressing Service:

ee SA ou ee = i ce «ce | seat a = am cam dt crue FE cower eth Saket Toe

 

th RN RE I N,N Re Re A Ee A

Dear Daddie:—

There's a new story
slarted in the Gazette las
week about Corona Uni
$24.00 is more interesting
to my pocket book,

Dot.

D Cs auville ’s

ALL COATS $24.00
ALL DRESSES 12.00

DS ee) ms ee ewe REE ABR
Me) BRS en ee ere Ph ene me mT I Pe BN 8

Stores in Dartmouth and Windsor

 

é ’
[ é é -. =h a J a? \ ai rae wrt a :
eS a a ee _ 2 = Eee 5 eS ee eee ie : cil Se he ee a es

 

 
  
     
  
  
  
   
  
  

i ,
a" » FF i, ae 4
Aisgthiyiruvye

as = Bi a7 So ae!
” ” a a i

~ ae
he ‘*. ae af
y e aa a

oe 7 ss a 4

es
| rf

—_
.

0 hockey team proved it
fight and “never say die’
ssary to take its place with
y rugby and basketball teams,
forced Mount A. to the limit
hey were able to literally “pull
out of the fire.” Lining up
. A, rink before a crowd of
hundred Mountie supporters
ng a team confident to the
of “nothing to it’ attitude, the
; tore into the game from the
g whistle with everything they
give—were bumped hard—missed
1 chances to cence ot on fightmarked Miller in deadly earnest,
cceeded in piling up two goals
at the same time kept their
vals scoreless during the first twenty
> utes of play. es mye
Without “straining a point” it may
sid that Dal were all over their
ents in this period, playing
better hockey and missing more opportunities to score than Mount A. Max

Brennan scored both goais for Dal.

essing room gasping for breath.
condition
D et one practice between their

on was the missing item, and
Mt. A: defeat and the present

  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 

  

   
  

  

five minutes Dai's team sat in
‘the dressi
Condition was t
condition only comes thru practise.

However, it was a case of “On with
the show,” and the second period
started away fast and, as was expected,
Mt. A, pressed their advantage and
.~ Miller, eatin outside defense, beat
'  Purtil on a ‘ine hard shot. ‘The
_ tink fairly rocked with enthusiastic
cheering. Five minutes later Sharpe
_ dupticated and deadiocked the score.
Play zig-zagged up and down the ice
Ns ° ant again Miiler, taking advantage ol
a penaity handed out to one of the Dai
forwards, scored again, and the teams
skated off for anuther breathing spell
. with the score standing 3-2 for Mt. A.
—-—-—*Not: disheartened, Dal skated on
_ the ice in the third period with deter_ mination to do or die. To say this
_ wasa hard luck period for Dal is putting
it jightly—it would perhaps be better
ae a tO point out that three times during
__ this period the Tigers found themseives
Bh = with only the Mount A. goa.ie to beat,
and again, hit the goal post on a re| _ bound. Mount A. scored on another
% 4 long shot, while they broke through
icy onty once in this period. 
-_-_-—s«It was a hard game to lose and it is
difficult to realize the improvement
in the Dal team due only to dogged
Pees determination which undoubtedly
___-\would have carried them through to a

win except for lack of condition through
ack of practise.

~~. \. Dallined up—
- Goa!, Purtiil; Defence, Stanfield, Brennan; Ferwards, Eaton, Oyler, Thompgon, O, Yaylor, Brown, J. Taylor.

i
ars
“ a

 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
    
      
     
  
       

=
Pal

The Editor,

and

7 + Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax, N.S.
_- 2 Dear Sir: —

=

students’ fee.

* A

a
r

  

_ by lack of funds.

  
  

To those who doubt the wisdom of
the proposed increase, may | point out
the benefit received by every Society
in the University when the fee was
raised to $7.00. Also the number of
activities that were able to start and
_ receive some small measure of support,

 
  
  
 
  

aoe

 
 

the opportunity to indulge in that
me ma eceny in which they were particularly
.. interested. In my Freshman days
there was no kaaminton, fencing or
boxing.
-—-s- This letter was prompted by that
published in your issue of Feb. “th,
signed by C. G. MacKinnon. Therein
he states “Daihousie was able to sent
a Rugby Team to Victoria on the $7.00
iS; fee.” As manager of that team, allow
- me to explain to the Student Body ho
that trip was made possible. It was
k not through the University or Students
Council, but rather by the generous
- support of the Alumni and friends of the
College, who felt, as we did, that such
a trip would be of real benefit to the
_. University, that we were abie to go.
Also by a generous guarantee ($3000)
made by the Vancouver Rugby Union.
‘The total cost to the University was
~ exactiy $150 to be used as incidenta
expenses. Our earnings for that year
er vicinity ot $600. Inspection of the books wiil prove this.
_ Dalhousie is growing fast, and
becoming well known. ‘The activities
fs the Student Body are increasing,
- mot only in size but in number. In
‘sl rt them more money is
. I do not believe that an
of $3 a year would injure the

  

  

  

 
 

       
     
 
    
   
     
   
  
          
       

By
mat. °2

ra

 
 

 
 

  

   
 

  

 
  

se a
ae
oa”
F =
a
js F

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

  

 
 
 

s worth,” when such studthey will realize that old

a condition responsible for defeat.

Council to Hold

held, along with the Student’s Council
elections on March 6th.

fee at the last council meeting, it was
mentioned that there might be danger
of students considering candidates for
election in connection with the $7 or
$10 fee.
greater fairness of the candidates, to
add
students’
by the present Students’ Council.

through Dal who are not really physically strong enough to do so.
important subject was brought before
the Council on Thursday last, by one
of its members,
students,
shouid be examined every year.
present only Freshmen are examined,
and natura.ly they are apt to receive
good results, but what about the person
who has been at Dal for several years,
and has
activities of coliege life, and with it all,
managed to pass his exams?
he nut be examined to see if his body
is strong enough to stand the strain?

|THE MOUTHPIECE

rs NOTE—All letters for publication must be signed by writers. We take

__ thus giving to more and more students.

of students. As for “Getting

them, and will continue

  

Council’ Stresses

Need of Med Ex
American Colleges

~

 

d Shows Marked |
ent on Sackville
score two goals in opening session. Lack of

A i Plebiscite

The plebiscite on the $10 fee will be

During the discussion on the $10

Members felt it would be to

that the proposed change in
fee was brought forward

 

aminations

There are many students going
This
He suggested that all

and not oniy Freshmen,
At

entered into the various

Should

The question was left in charge of

the micuicai students of the Council to
consider with members of the Medical
Society.

 

Personals

Dr. Kirk MacLellan entertained the
Phi Rho Sigma Fraternity at a dance

on Monday last, Feb. 10th.

   
  

  

   
   
    
     
   
 

 

   
    
   
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
     
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
 

   

OPEN
NOTE to

or have you now?

City and Province selling

    

[ul Die For

Old Corona

(Continued from Page 3)

As if in answer to Edward’s question
the President continued. ‘You had
the pleasure of listening tonight to a
play in which a murder was committed.
Untortunately such things do not only
occur in plays. Tonight you thought
that Waliace Sedgmore was unable to
play the ‘ead in a great murder and
mystery drama, You are mistaken.
Waliie Sedgmore has stayed in a greater
mystery. But this mystery I speak of
is vivid and reat and effects ali Corona.
I was cailed from my home tonight at
10.30 to the Phi Phi Phi Fraternity.
It is almost unbelievable but | found
Waliace Sedgmore lying in his bed
lifeless. He was killed this afternoon.”’

The audience was stunned. This
was far worse than the most fearful had
expected. A murder at Corona. No!
IT COULDN’T BE TRUE.

John staggered. “Wallie Sedgmore
dead!” Unbelievable. Then he had
not played the principal part in that
great drama of life aiter all. ‘‘Wallie
Sedgmore dead—’ One of Corona's
own men murdered—’' No! No! No!
The lad was completely exhausted after
his strenuous work. He became dizzy,
reeled and Pumpy MacDonald caught
him just in time to save his from a bad
fall.

“Wallie Sedgmore murdered!” The
great audience whispered it a thousand
times and still it seemed unreal.

 

The Zeta Kappa Phi Fraternity naa Dalhousie to

their annual dance on Thursday last
at the Waegwoltic.

Charlie Clark, Gordon Harris, Ross
Morrison and Alan Cook were hosts

at a delightful dance on Friday eve
ning, Feb. 14th, at the Green Lantern.

 

    
 

no responsibility for the opinions expressed in this department.

 

St. Thomas Hospital, Akron, Ohio,

February 1Oth.

___ For the past three weeks I have followed with mush interest the
articles published in the ‘‘Gazette’”’ regarding the increase in the

Though no longer a student, may I add my support in favour
of the proposedincrease? During my college days I was connected,
among other things, with the Football Team. We found our
selves continually hampered in our efforts to secure home games
i‘ This was detrimental, not only to the team, but
| believe, also to the University, because lack of publicity obtained

Mr. MacKinnon says that after the
$7 fee came in the “Council had more
money than it actually needed.”’ I was
a member of that council, and I do not
remember such a blissful state of affairs. Nor do I remember any of the
“extravagances” such as “$100 for
lemons."’ Let such men learn a lesson
from the co-eds, who realize that the
male element of the student body will
benefit most by such an increase, and
yet who believe that it is good for
Dalhousie, and who are whole-heartedly
behind the movement.

I wish to congratulate the ‘‘Gazette’’
on the effort it is making. I believe
the increase to be for the good of the
Old College, and I do not believe it
will mean hardship for anyone.

With kind personal regards, and
every good wish for success, believe me

Yours very sincerely,
BILL WINFIELD.

American Visitors

Continued from page 1.
being accorded them, and regretted
that their stay was cut so short.
As ‘‘finished”’ speakers they were easily
on a level with any who haveever
visited Daihousie, and both contained
an endless supply of stories for every
occasion. Life at Dalhousie was some
 

what of a novelty for them inasmuch:as |

both are representatives of non-coeducational colleges. Sodales wishes
them the best of luck during the rest of
their tour, and hopes someday again
to meet such fine representativs of
: Mr. Williams told
us upon his arrival that his father
(Pres. of Ohio Univ.) was a Yorkshireman, and Mr, Erskine’s was of Scotch
extraction, so that even these of our

heir} neighbouring nation are not so far
| distant from us, ,

 

Meet Acadia in
B.B.Semi-Finals

By virtue of their win over the Y
on Thursday night the Dal hoopsters
earned for themselves the right to meet
Acadia in the semi-finals for the Nova
Scotia basketball championship. Home
and home games are to be played with
total score to decide the winner. Dates
for the games have not as yet been
decided upon.

While not underestimating Acadia’s
snappy team, Dalhousians feel confident their boys will spring a surprise
and earn the right to play off for the
championship. Acadia has such stars
as Matthews, Eville, Ryan etc., but
we won from them in football, why
not repeat in basketball?

At the Orpheus

“The Terror,’’ Warner Bros.’ latest
and greatest mystery picture, comes to
the Orpheus Theatre next Monday for
arunof 8days. This shivery, shriek
y mystery drama is a Harvey Gates
adaption of the phenomenally successful London play of Edgar Wallace.
The cast includes May McAvoy,
Louise Fazenda, Edward Everett Horton, Alec B. Francis, Mathew Betz,
Holmes Herbert, Otto Hoffman, Joseph
W. Girard, John Miljan and Frank
Austin. Roy Del Ruth directed.

“The Terror’ details with creepk
reality the pursuit of the master mind
who has stolen the capital of a band
and hidden it somewhere in an oly
English manor house, used at the time
as a “rest cure.”’ Here come an odd
assortment of humans, crooks, detectives, frightened ladies, daffy folks—and
over all is the terrible hidden power of
the unknown being known as “The
Terror.” Most amusingly uncanny
picture ever made.

 

 

 

If You Want to See Well
SEE WALLACE

_ Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Blbg. Halifax, N.S.

 
  
   
  

Students at Dalhousie

Will you have any spare time during next vacation

 

There is a great field for remunerative work in this

INSURANCE

Covering :
AUTOMOBILES, ACCIDENT, SICKNESS, LIABILITY
PLATE GLASS, ETC.
If interested, communicate with us and we shall be
pleased to go into the subject with you.
Yours truly,

THOMPSON, ADAMS & CO., LTD.

169 HOLLIS ST. Telephones $1221 and $1222

 

   

    
   

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

CASINO

THIS WEEK
Mon-Tues-Wed

RAMON
NOVARRO

In his first Talking Picture

“Devil May Care”

Thar-Fri-Saturday

NANCY CARROLL

Tails
“Dangerous
Paradise’

GARRICK

 

THIS WEEK
WED. and THUR.

NORMA
TALMADGE

aN.

“New York Nights”

FRI. and SAT.

“Parade of the
West”

 

 

FROM THE

WINNERS FROM7

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of pertection. No matte:
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
witn the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

 

|

A. PUBLICOVER

2 Shops

LORD NELSON HOTEL
and
23 SPRING GARDEN RD.
CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College
SERVICE—Always experienced
Barbers at your service
Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies at
23 Spring Garden Road

 

 

 
 
    
   

     
            
           
          
   
         
      

 

 

 

 

 

 

This Week

Tke height of our February
Clearance

MANY GOOD BARGAINS
FOR MEN AND WOMEN

TUTTLE’S

SHOE STORES

25 Spring Garden Road.
557-559 Barrington Str eet.
and Dartmouth.

 

 

NEW ARRIVALS

IN
New Spring Hats
$2.95 and $1.95

 

JENSEN & MILLS CO.

LIMITED
SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

       
      
      
        

Get ist
Hair Cut

Two Shops

41 Sackville St. and Roy Bldg
[Sth floor]

Our Roy Building shop will

appeal to the ladies of Shirriff Hall.

m™ Phone S448 for appointment
Open Saturday evenings.

Shield’s Barber Shops

 

  


  
  

FN }
Pop cee en
_* =

2

  

Pas

ver 2 *G 5 ar a
— re hee ah au att

“?

 
 

ORPHEUS THEATRE.

THURS. FRI. SAT. MON. TUES. WED.

 

GERTRUDE LAWRENCE

in 4 “The Terror”
“ Battle of Paris” | may mcavoy

with LOUISE FAZENDA

ALEC TRAVERS
EDWARD EVERETT HORTON

A Mystery Thriller
Silent News Comedy

CHARLES RUGGLES
PARAMOUNT ALL TALK ING
Parisian Musical Comedy

Comedy Sound News

WASH DAY ?

Students | The net time you want your

Laundry finished in a hurry
and want it done neatly

HOME LAUNDRY

Dry Cleaning, Sponging, Pressing

70 Bilby St.

Phone L.2331

**For Particular People’”’

ee
Lord Nelson
Hotel |

(The Social! Center)

Halifax Chronicle
AND
The
Halifax Daily Star

The Ideal Atmosphere for
your Saturday Evening |
Dance,vrat anyothertime |
for your Bridge parties,
Dinners, Dances, Ete. : :

AFTERNOON TEA,

Orchestra—4.30 to 5 30

SUNDAY CONCERT |

9 to 10 p. m.

The

fastest growing
newspapers ip

Nova Scotia

 

 

 
  

  
     

MACLEOD, BALCOM ||| printine

  
     
     
     
   
     
     
 
  

LIMITED MULTIGRAPHING
DIRECT MAIL
ADVERTISING
174 Spring Garden Rd BLANK PAPER
203 Young Street ENVELOPES

Cor. Quinpool Road |
and Oxford Street

| 34 Morris Street
|
and Bedford |

NOVA PRINT,LTD

227-229 HOLLIS STREET
We Keep Deliv: ry Promises

es

  

a rs s
ee ee =
~ ON ee a i 3 .
<n hte teint Ld a

ete) Pee

:

FINE WOQL SOCKS
69c. pair

A good quality English Wool Hose with reinforced heels, soles andtoes. Fancy patternsin
many different color combinations.

Sizes 10 to 113.
Main Floor

EATON

MARITIME <«

@

LIMITEt

#1

 

 
 
  
  

February 18th, 1980 _

 

 

a.

7

        
       
     
       
  

   
     
 
