  

 

goer

*

Le

hy
/

i,

LS ea eta oe her ake Pe
weet ie

«

oe

es

*
a

     
  
   
  

7
’ i

¢

+ eee

s
“

fa ,
a i ly
a I, 7
a ~s

Epeus you get it you added six oranges

oi L
—_ ‘oe
_= +S

_

f i ~ ve e
fat)

_— —
a i) deel Tale
2 a © _ iid
An = 4 i
—¥ _ Le
Pate) Pn ji a

i i; i pa r

: 7

A e4

7

oe

SRT 9 pera

   

  

   

i ef


nH
2

ti

.

   

 

Mount A Here Monday

Sackville Team
To Meet Dal
| Next Monday

Final arrangements have been completed for the Dal-Mount Allison game
on Monday, January 27th. This being
the first game of the year insofar as
Dal is concerned, the result is being
eagerly looked forward to. The latest
reports from Mt. A. verifies the persistent rumours that they have one of
the strongest teams in years—Nuff
said. There are indeed few hockey
enthusiasts in the Maritimes who have
not heard of Bill Miller, colourful
Campbellton and former Acadia star.
Bill is this year again lending his
support to the Mounties, and if what
we hear is true, it will take more tha
one man to watch him alone. Dal,
on the other hand, are expected to have
a team with comparatively little experience but lots of fighting spirit.
As yet their strength and ability remains to be seen, but the boys are
hoping that with your support they will
be able to at least give their wellknown opponents a worthy game.

Rigid practises have been held
during the past week under the capable

idance of Steve Vair, well known

olverine coach, and this week will

gee the boys putting in another hard

schedule as far as getting into condition is concerned. A practise game
has been arranged for Tuesday against

St. Mary's.

Lineup: ;
rset Davidson (Capt.), Fair
_ stein, McLellan, Nickerson.

Centres: McRae, Jim Macleod.
Guards: Anderson, Handler.

Sport Comment

By G. M.

Our Senior Basketball team opened
the season with a bang in the right
direction on Saturday night against
Tech.

We are hoping for a repetition today
at noon when they meet Acadia in the

Dal Gym.

Acadia are in rare condition, according to rumour, but the Tigers aren't
too bad either, as you will all see.

 

 

 

Tonight our hockeyists display tneir
wares against St. Marys.

 

It will be a good game, but if you are
pressed for time wait until Mount
Allison comes down, and see a real game

 

Next Monday night is going to be
a “wow” at the Forum.

 

If we are not all there, those wno are
away may well be classified as ‘not
being quite all there.’ Ahem.

 

Ian Fraser and Ken Purtill will be
the net minders for the evening. Let’s

hope that they will be worth their

weight in goal.

oe

 

The Intermediate Basketball squad
lost to St. Josephs on Saturday might
by one basket—but that was only the
first game of the season.

Goodbye for now, we'll see you all
at the game today and at the Forum

_ Monday night.

 

; )
Papa—After a heavy meal, when you
have several subjects for homework,
what would you suggest to follow your
meal?
_ Lad—A picture show.

Murray (in Algebra period) —What

wo lemons?
—A cockt

.

il, sir.
hear Brett had an accident.

6, he bought a tiger cub at the
ution and they said it would eat

nad d.
, what of it?

   
   
   

  

P]

sit

iv
" f z
ate ais

    

   
   

‘

     

- *a

aire. |

t

  

  

 

Desires Support

Dear Editor:

We, who are intimately connected
with the development of this years
hockey team, seen, through the medium
of your paper the support of the students in our endeavours this season.

We consder the team worthy of the
students’ support and as you have
so often reminded them, during, the
present term, their cooperation is
absolutely necessary.

The players under Coach Vair, have
given unselfishly of their time in order
to produce a winning squad.

It is up to the student to stand behind
their team and we are hoping for a
100% attendance at the Mount A.
game on Monday evening.

Sincerely,
H. F. SUTHERLAND,
Mer.

Auditors Report
Slight Surplus

Halifax, N. S., Nov. 8-29.

The Secretary,
The Council of the Students,
Dalhousie University.

Dear Sir:

I have examined the books and accounts of the Council of the Students for
the session 1928-9,and certify that the
attached statement is in accordance
therewith.

Considerable difficulty was experienced in checking up certain expenditures of the grants to some of the
organizations, owing to lack of statements. For instance, there is, apparently no statement showing the gross
receipts and expenditures of the show
“Carrie Comes to College.”’ I would
like to endorse the recommendation of
the out-gong Council that’ the proper
executive of each society or organization should keep a detailed statement
of all his recepts and expenditures.

A large number of cheques voting
grants to various societies have been
made out in favor of individual officers
instead of to the society.

A statement of the Athletic Field
Account shows a balance due to the
University at Sept. 30, 1929 of $53.20
as against $155.00 at Oct. 31, 1927, the
date of the previous statement. It is
worthy of note that the original loan of
$2000 made to the Counci by the
University on this account has now
been wiped out.

An allowance of $200 for outstanding
accounts is advisable.

Respectfully submitted,

H.C. MORTON,
Auditor, 1928-9.

 

Balance 1927-8..5 6k ees $666. 82
RECEIPTS.
MOE ae. WS o. $5313.00
Students Council
Miscellaneous. ... 34.17
BD. A. A, C.
Rugby..... 573.02
Basbetball. 22.75
Hockey.... 52.00
647.77
Sodales. z Ay eee 49,26
Basketball. ...... 4.57
Glee Club
General, including
receipts from ‘‘Carrie comes to ColOo: eee 567.12
Cpaeste... 22). 3.20
6619.09
$7285.91

-. © er = Pi, he ;

  

  
 

 
 
  

   
 
  

+ ‘|
ff
= an

f whl...

  
 
 

ote

  

|

 

League Opener Results in
Decisive Dal Victory

 

Last minute rally nearly doubles score-—Dsvidson
and MacLellan star performers.

 

.
t

By G. C. M.

In the opening game of the Halifax
City Basketball League on Saturday
night the Dalhousie Tigers and Y. M.
C. A. vanquished their opponents
N.S. T. C. and Wanderers to thetune
of 39-21 and 42-24 respectively. For
the opening game of the season the
play was very fast assuring the fans of
seeing high class basketball during the
present season,

At 9 o'clock the Dal Tigers took
took the floor against the blue and
grey. The Dalhousie team for the
first time in many years were attired
in natty uniforms complimentary to the
organization.

With the opening whistle play started
fast, the ball see-sawing up and down
the floor, the players getting their
bearings and feeling out their oppoenets. N.S. T. C. led by Lane,
Hucky guard, was the first to make
the break when they notched up two
points on a long shot from the wing.
Dalhousie by this time found themselves and by a nice piece ot combination play, from the pump off,
reached the opposing basket only tohave their attempt to score spoiled
by hurried shooting. For the next
two minutes the Da! forwards led Ly
Davidson peppered the Tecninical
backboard but. were off in their shooting. Now things began to happen and
on a hit of accurate and fast passing
Davey received the ball under the
basket and rolled in the initial counte
for Dal. McRae doubled the score on
the next play and was quickly followed
by Coombie of the Technical. Fair
stein now shot a dandy from the wing
to make the score 6-4. Dal Forwards
were going fine but were stopped time
and again by the stellar Tech detence
which showed the influence of theit

 

Todays Line-Up

 

coach ‘Sleep’’ James. However

point the whole Dal forward line as
well as the Tech wing men were
changed. McLellan, Nickerson and
Macleod now formed Dal’s offensive
line. These two minute forwards com
bined with the elongated Jim to increas
the Tiger score to 20 while the Tech
nicals added 7 to make their total 13.
McLellan and Nickerson although
small make up for their deficiency in
stature by fast accurate passing.
effectiveness in eluding the guards,
During this quarter of the game, ‘“Big’”’
Jim made a dash from the wing behind
the guards received a bullet pass from
McLelland and while going at top speed
neatly dropped a very pretty counter
just as the whistle sounded for hald
time. Score 20-13.

With the opening of the second. half
Dal started off determined to push
things. As the ball left referee Piers’
hand it was registered for a score for
the Tigers, McRae fot the jump and
bang, Davey scored on Gairstein’s
pass after 5 seconds of play. Tech was
putting up a stubborn fight and Dal
called on their guards for the next
score. This was probably the Pbincoas
and most unselfish pice of combination
of the night, when Fairstein although
in a shooting position closely guarded
slipped the ball to Handler who was
coming in fast and unguarded, the
result was another two points for Dal.
Here the forwards were changed with
Dal’s score now 32. The fresh players
by consistent shooting and the dashing
Tiger spirit added another 7 points
to the score before the final whistle

which ended the game. Anderson
paved nicely throughout confining
is effort to defensive work.

Forward: Davidson (Capt.) Fairstein, McLellan, Nickerson.

Centers: McRae. Jim MacLeod.
Guards: Anderson, Handler.

 

New Feature

In recent years Gazette Readers have had several allstar groups picked for them from the different inter
faculty athletic teams.

This year we have devised a new feature, based on
those of former years, but of am entirely different nature.
We propose, in the issue of February 18th, to publish
the list of Dalhousie’s first all-star male dancing partners.
Before that time one of the staff will interview twenty
five of our college’s prominent and more socially inclined
girl students and obtain from them, what they consider

to be a Utopian programme.

These twenty-five sub
missions will be considered and the all-star programme

compiled from them.

So please watch for the issue of Feb. 18th.
_An all-star female aggregation will be chosen in a
similar manner at a later date and published on the first

Tuesday of March.

  
  
 
   
 

the
Tigers by varying the combinations
rolled the score up to 13-7 at this

  

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA |

    
 

  

TIGERS DEFEAT N.S. TECH SCORE 39-91

Makes Plea for Support
Best Y et B. B. Manager

e Annual Med. Hop on Mon .
is 1h, ce ie deel eee Seeks Students
Co-operation

The decorations were novel—the best
that have happened to the Gym for
quite some time. Tyere were five “

Studley,

January 20th., 19380,

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

colors used, shading from a lemon
yellow to a blookjrek.—The walls were
“fanned” and ‘‘silhouetted’’ with the
heads of several famous profs. Il in
all, including the usual skeleton, the
Meds “put it over” again. The music
was supplied by Joe Mills and his
orchestra, the chaperones were Mrs. H.
Alan Curry and Mrs. E. V. Hogan,
Johnny Budd and Art Ross sort of
managed it all.

The Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:

_ Permit me to thank you for the splendid support which the Gazette has
given to the Basketball Team of this

season. The members of the squad
wish it to

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   

  

Students Council

Supports Boxing

With past successes’ in Interfacuty

 

sport, such as Volley Ball, Soft Bail
Basketball and Football, another im
portant phase of Sport activity wili
soon be underway at Dalhousie.

Last Friday night the Students
Council went on record as favoring
the success of the tournament, when
its members unanimously voted forty
dollars ($40) to the Boxing Ciub for
the purchase of Cups, gioves, etc,

Everybody is interested in the
manly art of self-defence, so come on
you sons of James J. Corbett, lets make
whoopee and cauliflowers. Everybody
is welcome, no one excepted. There
will be various classes for - various
weights, from mosquito to elephant.
Let's get the gong ringing.

That the Boxing Ciub will be a great
benefit and success this year, there can
be no doubt. With the support of the
Council behind capabie men as Mr.
Stirling and. Jim McLeod. Both ot
these men have voiunteered to instruct
ali who are interest, not oniy in entering
the Faculty Tournament but aiso in,
earning the Science of Boxing. The
hours are Tues. 10-11 A. M., Thurs.
10-10 A. M., and Friday 7-10 p. m.

Here's your opportunity. Make it
a knockout!

The Club boasts as _ enthusiast c
members Jim McLeod, who already
has his boxing D. and Archie MacDonald, the fullback star and Joe
Conrad boxing flash, The ~ nest
meeting will be next Thursday at noo
in the Gym for the purpose of electing
officers and everybody votes alike.

Besides being a skillful sport, you
have an opportunity to represent your
faculty in the Tournament, which will
be held about the middle of February.
To the victors belong Silver Cups,
prizes and gold medals. ‘Nuff said!

R. K,

Alleged Humour

That boy comes late every morning,

And spends his time only yawning,

When he’s not telling jokes,

He's writing us notes,

So we’re glad he comes late every morning.

 

 

‘What makes you think I’m Scotch-”
asked Sandy. Is it my name—”

Oh, no, Mac,” answered Miss
Shannon. It’s the teeth marks on
the last dime you gave me for a library
fine.”

A Scotchman, getting off the liner
after what he deemed an expensive
crossing, saw a diver coming up on to
the pier. ‘Begorra, Mac," said he,
“If I'd known it was so easy I'd have
walked myself,’’

Continued on paged
OUR BASKETBALL REPRESENTATIVES

 

 

MacODRUM

Manager Captain

USIE vs. ACADIA

DAVIDSON

FAIRSTEIN
Forward

TODAY:

STERLING

Trainer

  

MacLEOD
Forward

 

MacLELLAN
Forward

 
 
 

be known that they appreciate
to the full the good offices ro their
college paper. It is their belief and
hope that with your continued support,
plus the support of the general student
body, Dalhousie will in this present
season take once again her proper
place in the forefront of provincial
championship basketball.
_ Dathousie’s enviable record on the
football field is to be attributed in
large part, to the fact that the “hghting
ligers’’ have had the loyal personal
Support of every student in the university. In recent years, Dalhousie
has failed to produce a basketball
team of championship calibre, ‘That
failure must be put down to lack of
Support from the student body. When
the students support Basketball as
they do tootbail, then, and not til then
will similar success be achieved, :
_ Three new iactors are at work in
Dalhousie basketbail this winter, First
the services ot a competent coach have
been secured in the persun of “Vic”
Regan of last year’s Masitime Champlun Trojans. Second, Mr, Dtiriung,
our Physicai director, has Inaugurated
a new system of training unde: which
phenomenal success has alicady been
acmeved in the condiuoping of our
men. Third, tor the frst time in years
the Dalhousie Gazette, the voice of
the student body, has seen pt tu assig
to Basketball space and attention at
cast Sommensurate with that availiable
in other years tor ranking sports. The
presence of these tnrce tactors has
not only imbued every team candidate
with the requisite spirit of victory, but
has facilitated the co-ordination of
those efforts which make tor victory.

On behait of the players, | thank you
again for the generous support given
this year’s team.

Yours sincerely,
GORDON MacODRUM,
Manager
Dalhousie basketball.
Seni t
niors Mee

__ The Senior class held a meeting last
Tuesday with the President, Doug
scott, in the chair, The object of the
meeting was to discuss the teasibility
of having a class party in the near
tuture. <Atter much discussion it was
decided to hold a party at the Waegwoltic sometime within the next two
weeks. It was suggested that a combined bridge and dance be held but
definite arrangements were lett in the
hands ot the social committee,

 

A HORSEY DENT.

_ Rumour has it that during a particularly funny part in the show at
tne Casino the other night there was a
great disturbance down in front.
reople say that it sounded like a horse
laugning, and the usher must have
thought that as he came down looking
to see if such a thing could have happened that someone lett the side door open
and an animal got in, But it only
turned out to be one of our most popular
students in Dentistry who was rather
amused at the show.

ADDRESS HEARD:

The Commerce society held their
first meeting of the term in the Arts
building, Thursday noon, The chairman, Mr. Gordon Cooper, introduced
the special speaker for tne day, Mr. C.
H. Wright, chairman of the Halifax
Board ot Trade who had kindly consented to address the students. Mr.
Wright had taken as his subject “Is a
college education worth while for a
business man.” The subject is one
which has caused much discussion today
and the speaker handled it in a most
instructive and highly entertaining
manner which was thoroughly enjoyed
by his audience. A vote of thanks
was tendered the speaker and on
motion the meeting adjourned,

ALLISON ON MONDAY

 
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
    
  
    
   
   
   
   
    
  
 
  
   
   
 
    
  
   
 
 
  

- “<i Pahl + r — - Sar = = = +
ee | = *.% a Late! Se sai eal
a TI <= es) ee 7a , ze
i a ms Om ey > : * as 4 — 7 Sa . De
cess Se
ees |
ee re ne oe : a I
ae aa i i 7 - =
ee ae
b > > rat ®
7 \ on i
ae ‘
eo L* py it
1} > ‘ae
- a ae 5 / ~
} = ni > a as qs i
J e a hs ®
¢ t Se ir |
si¢ || Gazette
, 7 4 / L : ~ SF AD ,
“a a y a z
es ; ~ Wet jof 1 by ’

ded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”

ar." Managing Editor. —
30: K NTOSH, B. SC. RALPH S. MORTON, B. A.
5 . 3351. Phone Sac. 304.
ane News Editors.
an ARTHUR PATILLO
po - KEN, SMI H.
ex VANCE FRASER.
Sar ers >. + “DORIS MARGESON
fae rs J. ROSENBLUM
- Society and Girls’ Sport | Sport Editor.
HELEN G. WILLIAMS, P. A. OYLER.
yt .
Associate Editors.

°

MADELEINE PAGE, B. A.

Asst. Business Manager.
J. R. DONAHUE.
Phone Sac. 4086].

Subecription Rate $1.50 per year.
Gazette Phone Sack. 4866.

 

ON FINANCES.

_ Elsewhere in this issue will be found the detailed report of the
‘financial condition of the Student Council books when taken
over : by the new regime at the beginning of this term.
_. « The report shows that a bank balance of $485.10 existed at
that time. Howéver, outstanding bills have decreased that
amount to about $300.00, according to the present secretary, Mr.
we oudge. Rapa A oh
hake These figures conflict with the figures furnished by the Presi__ dent of the present council to those who attended a meeting, held
 Jast week to consider the advisability of having all departments of
undergraduate activity furnish monthly statements to the council
secretary, when they were informed that last years council had
ne over $400.00 in debt with outstanding unpaid accounts still
coming in. What he probably meant was that they had completed the year with a surplus of approximately $300.00, notwith
standing the fact that they had received a $600.00 balance from
the council of the preceding year. The question then arises as to
_ the advisability of scrimping year after year in order to establish
a large surplus: which, according to the president’s remarks, should
—__-not-be touched by succeeding councils. |
___ The fact which sponsored the remark, was, in all probability
_ the attempt to impress upon those present the necessity of econom¢ in the different branches of endeavour, but why go further
} the present inadequate seven dollar fee when searching for
_ {mipressive arguments in this regard.
-- Students’ and managers, alike, realize the utter futility of
attempting to accomplish the utmost in non-academic activities
__ with the paltry fee new in vogue.

n™

Games are not as largely attended, under the present system,

© 6

| _as they would be, if a fee sufficiently large to permit free admission,
_ wereadopted. |
A

SD

The allotments

! a. *
=
mee
- . "a
Ea ae ee

The al made necessary at present, to the different
_ gocieties, require rigid economizing on the part of the treasurer
-_ or manager and do not provide for all the equipment for otherwise
possible accomplishments. ;
_. Unfortunately theie exists a gross misunderstanding between

the athletic managers and the student's council. ;

_--—~—s« The individual managers seem to think that the council is
attempting to withold all the money they possibly can.
-- The council members, in turn, are inclined to be skeptic reai garding some of the demands of the managers and to avoid being
 fleeced, they adopt an obstinate attitude.
-~~«-‘The possibilities are obvious and a deadlocked situation
usually results.

>

ei
eee”.

ge al] .

eg A tay

in - &
ze .
_ i ty

+ *, ey
ve

% aie

_—)’s What is needed most at Dalhousie is a more amiable under-_ standing between these two factions.

pte. Some time ago we made a plea for more co-operation on the

part of the students in connection with undergraduate activities.

' It is more or less gratifying to note that this trouble appears not

only at Dalhousie. “hee

-” The following, from an editorial in the McGill Daity is being

ted herewith for your approval.

————s Wee:«~wwoulld suggest that you substitute the name Daihousie
for McGill, when reding it, and respond to the apt advice given.

an - ;

a
ace

cane > “While at the university, for health’s sake, get stirred up about

-. gomething. We are assured by members of the medical fraternity
that this stirring up is most beneficial for the liver of the individual
involved and it is our conviction that it will be for the good of the
- wniversity in general if such takes place with every student now at
McGill. |

rs. __ Perhaps it was Carlyle who said ‘Do something,” or some--—s thing to the same effect. We would proffer the advice to first
think something. Form opinions, take some side and if possible,
oe express your convictions in talk and if allowable, by action.
_-—~——s “There are enough issues around the campus to get “‘het’’ up
about something. If the issues presently do not seem to provoke
- gome thought in your mind, “‘start something.”” If anywhere we
---—s expect to see in a university some indications that there is a con
flict of opinion. Conflict of opinion .shaipens the wit. The
a fs vit sharpened is a ready instrument of defence or aggression in
. os all w

be 5

7

G4

yvalks of life. It may even, with the most ambitious, provide
__ one with a means of livelihood, so for health’s sake and economic
i? "reasons get stirred up about something!
ae ae f

ow

Ff: Re A Message to Presidents

| of all Dalhousie Organizations

di

ig

- ve

 

*

fy our club, or society, or organization is to have a place in the Yeaf
; ¢, you must see that the FULL TITLE, and a LIST of the EXEC= be sent in at once to the Editor, which means, write it on a

‘paper and put it in the GAZETTE BOX right away. _If we

a picture, we'll ask for it later.
t get LEFT, do it NOW.

  

DALHOUSIE

A

    

A movement with its ultimate goal as
the International peace of the world
began with the founding of the League
of Nations. Since then the European
world has been making every attempt
to outlaw war. Up to the present, the
League has functioned in a capable
manner, and the advent of the KelloggBriand peace pact seems to strengthen
its power. From these . happenings
it would seem as if the world is well
on the way to peace.

- The League, as everyone knows, is
made up of a governing body of representatives from satisfied nations. Recent events tend to show that there
still exist a number of dissatisfied
subject nations. These subject nations
are fast realizing a rational consciousness. In their realization of racial
and national differences, they are
causing a great deal of worry to peace
loving peoples. Rational-minded peoples have realized that the cause of
these subject nations is a just one.
Their wholehearted sympathy goes out
to these subject nations, whose rights
are trampled on in a disregarding mannerby a tew powerfulalien races. These
governing nations, with imperialistic
designs on foreign lands—where the
peoples never think of war or of the
invader—are functionary members of
the League. Without them the entity
of the League of Nations would be lost.

Herein lies the most difficult problem which a peace-minded body of
peoples will have to solve at ‘some
future date. In all probability, the
time may be near at hand for the
solution of this problem. If this
question is handled by the League,
in its effort to promote world peace it
may gain the emnity of these powerful
members, or it may realize that the

effort for world peace is a futile one. | world peace.

There is no doubt that if it endeavours

i Outlook on World Peace

4%
ia

to a out its principles of international peace that it will lose favor
with these governing nations. Yet
one may contend that if the League
associates itself with governm.nts who
resort to any but peaceful means to
suppress weaker nations that the
League is straying far away from its
objective.

This is a question which the League
has ignored for a long time. Since its
existence it has done invaluable work.
It has created a bond of unity and a
spirit of peace between the large nations
who were wont to fight on any pretext. In this achievement it has done
a great thing. But now the peace of
the world is at stake. The weaker
subject nations are creating within
their hearts a burning hatred against
the oppressing nations. This burning
haere is kindling within them a fighting mood. As soon as they are up to
fighting standard, one can rest assured
that they will fight. The writer sees
that from out of this situation, there will
arise a war, or perhaps wars, far greater
than any that has happened before.
For the strength of the weaker subject
nations are increasing and their rage is
greater than ever before. Perchance
the day for war might not be far distant.

This is a problem which the writer
wonders whether the League will be
able to solve. It must either create
discord within its circle or acknowledge
that international peace is but a shady
ideal. For if the League fails in bringing about peace the world and its peaceminded peoples: will then be plunged
into a state of grim unrest and untold
disasters. Such a state of affairs would
tend to rock the portals of the League
of Nations and shatter all its ideals for
International peace will
then become a memory of bygone days.

 

Fraternities
and Sororities
Give [nterviews

The sorority sisters and fraternity
brothers of Toronto are emphatic in
denying that their respective organtzations are used as ‘‘matrimonial clearing houses,” so “The Varsity” learned
on interviewing their various members.

“TI can’t think after five o’clock
School’s out then. I don’t belong to
a sorority so I can’t speak for them,
but I’ve never seen a sorority sister
hanging around the Sigma Chi house
looking for a man,’’ So spake George
Morgan, Dents.

“It is absolutely ridiculous,” protested Hilda Daley, III U. C., ‘“No one
has that idea at all. Where did it come
from anyway? It is an incidental fact
and not a fundamental one that sorority girls get the fraternity men."’

Al Contway, V Meds, never reads
the “‘antics afield,”’ but said “there are
more ways of killing a cat than by
poisoning. Fraternities aren’t used as
matrimonial bureaus, but during the
winter the Varsity Stadium is, and up
there it is imperative to speak the
language.”

Ken Brandon, IV Meds, answered,
‘It is a charming idea and has its possibilities, though I’ve never been able
to use any of the matrimonial opportunities that our fratcrnity offers.”

I don’t like the idea and it’s not
entirely true,’’ said Leslie Leitch, IV
Dents. ‘Many girls who don’t belong
to sororities get fraternity men. Often
a sorority sister marries a fraternity
a

“Oh, I wouldn’t say that, but I’ve
really been too busy to take much notice. I don’t think there is anything
to warrant the statement,” said Oliver
Baillie, IL] Meds.

Kay Gillies, IIIf Household Science,
thinks that ‘‘sororities aren’t for that
purpose at all. Why, the same girls
might be married whether they belonged to sororities or not. I’m really
not much help, but I don’t think they
nave much to do with matrimony.”

While the reporter held the line
Marion Orr, II Household Science
consulted with her family on the subject, and finally decided that it was
‘food for thought.’’—Varsity.

Country Love

Way down in that there country where
the cows come from,

Lived farmer Perkins even though he
wasn’t one,

Who with his knee high boots, and his
swallowtail coat,

Made him look a sight and got all the

peoples goat.

Always cussed the women and took it in
his mind

Here was one by heck! not of the
marrying kind.

But what can a farmer do if there comes

his way,
A poor little widow who let’s him call
her May.

It wasn’t long before our poor farmer
eloped, ‘

And the marriage came sooner than he
had ever ee

May pulled him by his whiskers and
cried ain't he cute!

But the farmer he just sat and talked
like a mute.

The neighbours in his affairs soon began

to pry, 3

And old Dame Gossip says they saw
the widow cry,

Cause the farmer, he was tired of this
married life,

And he et loved Maude the cow better

thanhis wife. _
ROBERT KANIGSBERG

to let t

The Taking of
Baths

The principal thing that is wrong
with this world we live in, according
to Ezra Peek, is that there isn’t time
to stop and think any more. Our
minds, our bodies, and even our souls
are geared up to such a speed that
when we sight a tumbling brook or a
maple trec in autumn fohage we have
an impression of pleasure, but we
pass hurriedly on, and the sensation
does not last. For this reason, old
Ezra will have nothing do with
motor cars, and when he travels it is
behind a venerable gray mare, who
frequently stops to graze along the
wayside, allowing her master plenty.
of time for observation and meditation

While the opinions of the Douglas
county sage may be unduly influenced
by the lethargy of age, there is nevertheless an element of truth in his
eriticism. There isn’t much time any
more, for a person to let his body rest
and his mind ramble. Things are moving too fast.

One institution which has always
been conducive to thought and which
seems to be passing, is the bath tub.
Doubtlessly in a few years it will be
replaced altogether by the shower.

There is something of the luxurious
about a bath tub. You climb into
warm, soapy cleanness and let your
body go limp. A feeling of rest and
leisure comes over you. Then it is
that your mind begins to work, and
you begin to philosophize rather elementarily, probably, on the ways of
the world. You wonder if perhaps you
haven't been trying to go just a little
bit too fast, and if you wouldn't get
a little more enjoyment if you slowed
down a bit and observed a little more
This train of thought continues until
the water gets cold.

This is the way baths should be
taken—not just a hurried shower for
the mere material purpose of getting
clean, but for the more cultural one
of preserving and developing thought.

—Oregon Emerald.

 

Poor Losers

It is an established custom—almost
a tradition—to regard the poor loser
as a poor sportsman. The vanquished
is not allowed to voice his loss in order
to allow the victor toenjoy his winnings
to the utmost, undisturbed by the
wailings of those he has conquered.
Stoicism is the cult of the loser and
when he behaves like a true Stoic and
smiles when hope is gone the world
acclaims him as a good loser and
expects him to be content with this
poor mead of pitying praise. The poor
loser the one who bewails his loss—
is looked on with general contempt and
scorn as a human being unworthy of
the name of man.

There is however an intermediate
Stage between the good loser and the
poor loser as we generally accept the
terms. This type does not kick against
the circumstances which made him
lose but is a poor loser in as much as
he never knows when he is beaten.
He represents those men who keep on
perying their conquerors, refusing

em have any peace and continues fighting even when he knows that
the fight is hopeless.

There are those who decry this type
of man, They say he is not a sports
man. He refuses to admit that his
victor is a better man than he is. But
in spite of tnis, in spite of the fact that
he may be said to be lacking in sportsmanship we persist in defending him—
even encouraging him in his ways—for

-Many reasons.

We agree that the ordinary type of
poor loser should berevestininated | but
the poor loser who keeps on fighting

SS,

: =

ee

January 21st, 1986

About Debates, Debaters
and Debating

| the opposition.

ST

 

Dalhousie certainly shows pluck and
grit and energy by the interest the
students continue to take in the gentle
art of Speaking, despite the hopelessly
hard luck they have had during the
past few years. There must be a
reason for these defeats, and it is up to
us to find out where it lies, and to apply
some remedy. Otherwise we are doomed to go down to defeat before the
memorized recitations of some of our
opponents, or before the skill of others.

The fault is not in the speakers, for
Dal has produced a remarkably fine
crop of undergrad uate debaters; there
has been keen competition for places
on the teams and those, who have been
selected, have given time and_brainpower to the preparation of their
speeches. Material has been good,
delivery has been in most cases excellent. Yet every time—lost by Jud
ges’ Decision, with the Audience in our
tavour, There has been some talk
about the appointment of an official
debating coach, so that professorial
learning could be drawn upon. As
one man put it “My colleagues and
1 had to debate against the whole
faculty of the opposing college.’”’ Everyone knows that this is a bit exaggerated,
nevertheless, there is a large percentage
of truth in the statement. However,
there is no need for an official coach.
The professors are only too anxious
to give unofficial help to studentswho
are preparing debates. They suggest
references, they give information ot all
kinds, even to deadly statistics, and
they are untiring in their efforts. They
do not write out the speeches, neither
do they teach them by word of mouth,
but they are ready with their arsenal
of weapons, and the students can select
the most deadly arms from the Faculty
Store.

The fault cannot be in our style of
debating. Dalhousie carries on debates
in the English manner, with rebuttal as
the speeches swing along. ‘This is
THE way to debate, not in the approved high-school fashion, where each
man orates for himself, regardless of the
others, even though his most important
argument has just been disallowed by
Nevertheless, we seem
to be the pioneers of Englisn debating,
in a cold and unappreciative world,
which is very strange, as Nova Scotia
has always prided herself on _ her
English traditions. If our style is our
downfall, then let us persevere until
the latter day when it will come to be
recognized, ‘‘even among the barbarians.”’

I do not think, however, that any
of the above are reasons of any value
in solving the problem. We do not
need better speakers; we have the
material here, material that gives

SS ___ # ee O

when apparently beaten should by
all means be encouraged. This type
of poor loser shows character and
backbone and is to be admired rather
than condemned. He has an obstinate
streak in him which refuses to admit
defeat in any circumstances. His is
the spirit which often turns defeat into
victory. He is a poor loser because
he does not know how to lose and is
a poor loser in the sense that he bewails

his losses and grudges the other man his| b

victory. This admirable type of poor
loser simply does not let the other man
win.— McGill Daily.

 

—— $$ — ————— Nee ee

ee

promise of great improvement, as it
is good to start with. We do not need
an official coach. We need a committee, or rather, we need a board of
eminent Privy Councillors, armed with
the scales of Justice, to decide the
subjects and to pick the sides, so that
we can haye a debate in which skill
and argument will win, without the
weighting finger of prejudice.

Now, I am NOT saying that our
judges have been prejudiced for or
against certain groups of debaters.
I do not say that tney have favoured
one side rather than another. That
would be low and untrue. But I do
contend that the judges, however openminded they endeavour to be, retain
certain fundamental prejudices, Call
them subconscious, call them inherent,
call them any fancy title you will. The
fact stands that they are prejudices,
and they weigh the balance of decision
against the side that upholds them.
It you are tired of abstract words, nere
is a concrete illustration. Last year
Dalhousie sent to Newfoundland one
of the finest Debating trios that has
ever represented its Alma Mater.
A Newfoundland triend of mine, who
heard the debate, said that our men
were far ahead of their opponents
(who were jolly good) in style, use of
English and delivery. Yet the Judges’
decision chalked up for them just
another defeat. And why- Because
the subject was one loaded with prejudice. No one, at this stage of the
enlightened Twentieth Century would
venture a verdict in favour of the statement that war benefitted human
progress. The question was not whcther Dal’s men thought most basely that
this really was the case, yet the decision
was based on this ground, not on. merit
in speaking. And so with every debate we have had for the last hundred
years. The subject has been considered rather than the worth of the arguments.

I would like to suggest that we have
a topic, possessed of two equal sides,
with no prejudice possible, and let the
srguments of the more eloquent prevail. For instance: “‘Resolved that
the dance-orchestra in the Gym is
better at the end than in the middle.”
Or, if something more serious is desired:
“Resolved that loose-leaf notebooks
are of more practical value to the
student than the ordinary bound notebook.” Then would we have the debates! And victories! And how!

 

Teacner—What 1s the Frenéh for
water bucket?

Student (waking from dream)—
Chapeau.

Burke—Why does Pocock always
come to school with his homework
done?

Lurk—His father's a ‘‘Chiropractor.”

Master—The Saxons used logs for
pillows. What has this led up to at
the present time?

Pupil—In a comic you see a map
sleeping.

_ Dumb (waiting for street car)—By
jove, I really think a street car has gone

Bell—Why, old sweet, what makes
you think so?
Dumb—Well, I can see its tracks.

 

   

Oe ae

 

 

What’s wrong
with this Adv.?

The man is upside down, of course !

That is theway You

go about thingsif youdont take
advantage of the REMARKABLE
LOW VALUES offered specially
for STUDENTS at this store .°.

COME HERE AND SAVE,

ia Shane’s Mens Wear Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

Play

Badminton!

And enjoy the thrill of this game that is

fast sweeping Canada.

Pleasant friend
ships—gay social life—great fun.

Call on Phinney’s for Birds, Rackets and
Nets made by Slazenger and Spalding,

leaders in the world of Sport.

prices to Clubs.

   

Special

 
 
 
  
   

  
 
  
  
  
    
   
  
   
  

   

ELLY’S
OLUMN

: ise Max McOdrum; A preposition is a
ae weak word to end a sentence with.

' Se
‘ ir
Pr tie ay Sey

_ Waste-baskets are a product of our
civilization; so we may say tnat one
mark of a man’s culture is the use

e makes of his waste-basket. The

___It is rumoured that the expression|caye-man had no waste-basket bewae Give the little girl a great big hand,” | cause the wind blew away the leaves
v3 originated in Shirreff Hall poker games. | and twigs he had not burned, he wore
eS cere your poker hands girls—the| the skins of tne animals he had killed,
‘ ‘ 1

eu
i

e's igarette companies’ offer of a neW/ne ate tneir flesn, and grawed their
eRe “gymn as a premium still holds good. bones, then threw them out for the
a. se Owe need now prowling wolves to cruncn. There
complete sets! was no waste and so there could not be

ee waste-baskets.
ei TODAYS GREAT THOUGHT | Many Are the Forms of Conceal-~
is 2,899,999,999

 

ee Am ment,
ake E 2 a been ee cal- Now with man’s development wasteTiere c.4 Cate oytac ae ase baskets serve for ornament and use.
Ce hs that if all the undergraduates On those convenient folding ones, the

who hold official positions at

| Dalhousie were laid end-to- Dutch children in their wide skirts

: dancing along the dyke can hide a heap
end and properly pulverized, of apple cores or red-inked resumes.
A vey would make a good long Or the gay Japanese scene can conceal
asphalt highway. from our friends’ roving eyes the bill
oe i F for the tie bought at the bargain counter
_ - An Arts lecturer recently re-|Tne yawning chicken fence basket
ss mained away for three consecu-| which tne Ag students prefer is really
ss tive lectures. Some people will | not as gcod, tor one never knows what
go to any lengths to achieve popu-|fragment of ‘that’’ letter will suddenly

- nr

i: arity. flutter forth to the floor for all who
reas . ‘ ; giance to read. No, tnat kind will
sss The “*promising’’ candidate | really never do!

a _ tn the present election has in- The Versatile Basket.

? - timated that he will fulfil every Now, the metal ones with the an
plank of the Gazerte’s 1930

platform—if elected. Then

there was the one about if we
_- had some ham we could have some

ham and eggs—if we had the
~>\ eggs.

tique copper finish are admirable and
lend an air of refinement to their
occupation. One feels inspired to
piace the neatly folded newspaper with
in, and then the apple core and resume
may drop gracefully inside the folds.
The really charming things about these
of antique design is their versatility;
they hold your “rubbish” gracefully,
as if you honored them by your donations, and tney keep your secrets.

  
  
     
       
    
 
      
     
      
       
    
     

=e By grasping it firmly with a slight
' G A McDonald motion of the hand it may be converie > ted into a comfortable Sethe for the
use at a 10 p. m. tea when space is
TOBACONIST always limited. At the ee =

c. + a there is an alternative use for this,
ee ory antique bit of furniture. Inverted,
escrsption its tapering lines furnish a graceful

  

i A complete stock of Domestic

et and Imported

. CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

base for the hot-plate. From _ this
safe position the kettle soon promises
the cheariac draught to all.
Another Problem Solved.
‘Pictures must be hung from the
moulding’; if the person hanging the
picture is short this becomes a problem.
But the waste-basket again proves its
universal use. Place the afore-mentioned article carefully inverted on a
chair and with a sweet peace of mind,
mount and hang the masterpiece.
These are but a few weak tributes
to the product of man’s c.v.lization
and genius. Bvuware lest you_basely
betray your station, by not giving this

 
   
   
       
      

  

  

Se

21 Spring Garden Road

 

      
     
       
     
     
           
    
     
       
      
         
    
        
       
       
    
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

| Henry Birks & Sons

it deserves.

 

°
Life
Must I be cool to all this modern strain
This petty fun, this searching—ever

  

Limited vain
DIAMOND MERCHANTS For better things- Must I, then, live
Halifax. This life apart from happiness—or pain
I know it must be so and yet
I think its ’cause I bear no man an ill.
Yet, strangely, there’s no man |
couldn’t kill—
That I could not see damned.in roasting
fires—
Who knows— Perhaps I will.

  

|| YELLOW CAB
eH _ LIMITED

ae SACK. 4444
Halifax Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
‘Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

Its over—and now the dawn
Has come to wake me up
From one sweet dream! A thorn
Remains. In reticence I take me up
From my soft bed—am gone—

Its over—and on my way
Wearily I swing
It hurts. But still I play
At laughing—and I sing
Last night’s caress—today!
—F inis—

 
   
    
       
      
  

SMART TOGS
, The Co-ed.
JENSEN & MILLS CO.

LIMITED
SPRING GARDEN ROAD

_ || BUTTONS ON
|| RENTS MENDED
_ || HOLES DARNED

  

  

| That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

  
      
 
   
   
    
 
 

| VALETERIA

|| A new pressing Service:

 

 

 

Your Suit or Overcoat
Shaped and Pressed, for
60 Cents. .

    
     

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Confectionery and Meals, as well
as courtesy, efficent service and
attractive surroundings are to

   
 
    
  

   
  
   
     

a +

UNGAR’S

| Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

  
  
   
 

   
 
 
 

ae
€ _," oo cy
wat
Tr ao r '
a ee

 

: Sac. 428 Har. 107 be had at
LAUNDERING — DYEING ie
Ri aie The Green Lantern.

PRESSING |

=a
if ,
7 —_
| z a

ee ee

representative of our times the respect 2

 

of a Little College

ALL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR THIS DEPARTMENT MUST BE IN THE HANDS OF THE MANAGING EDITOR BEFORE THURS. OF EACH WEEK

Waste Baskets

A Treatise on an Important Part of a Newspaper

Office.

 

 

The Big City

By R. K.

Ephriam Hoozik, who made up his
mind that he would see the big city,
tells his story to the town reporter.

“Shure thars no use in me stickin in
this here farm, talkin bout potaters ’n
appuls, ’n farmer Spriggs sheep. Down
in New York | kin git edurkated. |
kin ride in them thar things that goes
on top of the buildins, or udderneat de
ground. No more o dis small town
stuff sez I. Why I be abul to go on
top o the Wuiwerth Building an mebee
1 kin see the Mare. Enyway | took de
furst trane to Nu York an turst ting |
knows wuz sumbody yeilin “trains in.”’
1 wakes up in a great big buildin, yer
know one wit lectric lites n everything.
Jest ez I wuz goin out a feller cutis me
brudder an sez e’ll look ertter me grip,
I give it ter ‘im an 'e must ave looked
efter it fer I ain’t seen im since. Next
| asked a feller ow to git ter at er Wulwertn Buildin an drat my parsnips if ’e
duzzent say ‘Dontcher no _ y’ain’t
allowed ter speek ter pepul yer don’t
know .n Noo Yark.”” Wall I goes toa
perl.cemen 'n he tels me ter go ter
turty-filt streat, git a subwai an efter
‘at ter transfur at furty-second streat
fur an elervatered. A lot er help at
wuz wen | nivur new ow ter git ter at
furst plase. Wall et waz eezy ter find
it erlone fer I jest waiks arou wit me
ned in der air till | seezit. So I sez ter
meself bein as I wux smart nuff ter
find it reckon I'll take der elervater
up ter top o der buildin but kin yer
magine it dey wunted fifty cents ter
tak me up. Sez I “No siree not
Ephriam Hoozik wuz goin ter pai at
ermount. Why I kin buy tree acers
o Whippies pastcher fer sech a sum.”
'N wnen I teus a pcrlicermen I wuz
goin ter see der Mare mind yer ’e heids
me up fer a suspichers karacter, I,
soon got off at by acck! tut ‘tween
gittin squashed in der subwais, not
eatin ail day 'n bein robbed off my tree
doliars, I took my return tickut an
cum back an berlieve me dis ere plase
iz mignty fine an foiks my adwise iz
dontcher spend ail yer muney in at
city ter dey dont appricherate it.”

(iach ee a ee ee ms

High Spots for
Kelly’s Kolum

(Contributed)

We thought that with the installation
f the new drinking fountain in the
Science Building we should no longer
behold the familiar sight of students

feverishly scooping up bucketfuls of
snow!

Two highly respectable and supposedly graduate students were observed at
punting practice—with a lump ot ice—
along the Dalhousie driveway. They
persevered in their efforts until at last

one of them kicked a ]
has. goal at THE

Dalhousie possesses the most absentminded professor in America, He had

‘|to look in the Directory for his own

telephone number.

Nova Scotia Technical College
OFFERS

ENGINEERING COURSES

Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.

Write or call for Calendar or advice

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

January Sale. .-*.-'

ing this Sale.

 

A complete Book—Stationery the Forum — its a
and Gift Shop Service D’Eauville one, too.
High-Grade Coats in University Margie.
styles at special low prices dur- D ’ Sy ae
Wists. range from PIANOS, VICTROLAS, auville ’s

Small Musical Instru§ 1 9 a 5 0 ——to—— $4 9 5 O ments and Victor Records ALL COATS = $24.00

We invite you to join our ALL DRESSES 12.00

Fiction Lending Librar .

8 y HALIFAX

Colwell Brothers, Ltd

453-457 Barrington Street

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

 

ae ee —

  

__.. STORIES ~
- COMEDY
REVIEWS

 

 

_ There is only one word in the dictionary pronounced “‘wrong.” What is
it?

I dunno.
“Wrong.”

Teacher—What does “vocation”
mean?

Student—A holiday.

Dalhousie
10 Years Ago

Bud—When is a boy deaf, who is not
deaf?

Dudder—When someone trices to
borrow a nickel from him (take Dazle
for example).

Father—Son, your studies are costing
me a lot of money.
Son—Why, father,

much.

 

I don’t study

(Glancing over the Gazette filles of 1920-21)

Dec. 8th.,
Gazette):
Proposed Launching of the Dalhousie
Review! An Appeai to every student.

1920 (Headlines of the

Professor Wilson (in History I):
“And a great battle was fought about
three inches this side ot Maarid! |

Lega Senior Hockey Team 1920
a1;

Goal—'‘'Duke’’ McIsaac. |
Defence—Lee Fluck, McNeil.
Forwards—Liily, Bates and McEach
ern.
Spares—Dunn, Monte Haslam, Jones

Disillusioned
Elementary Latin young man translated “femina” as goddess.
Dr. Nichols: No, no, my boy. We,
only think that while we’re young!

—and lastly, get
the real college
Spirit, smoke
Turrets, and show
you belong to the
best by smoking
the best.

Professor Copp (in Surveying): ‘“After we found the bottle we were able
to finish the suvey much better.”

Class: Roars of laughter and much
applause. :

Prof. Copp: “Don’t take the wrong
impression, the bottle was empty, it had
only been used as a bench mark!”

J. R.

There Go the
ssn

Every year around college re-opening
and until the end of December, one
hears a continual argument on this
topic. At this time ot the year many
a dearly loved cat is lost to its -dear
owner, and for all eternity.

Usually, those who mourn the loss
of one of their favorites have their
suspicions as to the fate of these creatures. They have, however, never
been able to support their convictions
by proof. They, however, suspect
a certain select community. And as a
rule, wnenever a cat is lost at this
time of the year, this community gets
the blame whether it deserves it or not.

To settle this bothersome question,
certain proposais have been made|
from time to time. These proposals
were of such a nature as to provide
cats at this season of the year when
they are in demand. These proposals
were rejected because they were said
to be too inhuman. Such proposais
were not in accord with the principals
of humanity.

Probably the writer may seem very
irrational to severe critics. It however
a does appear strange to the writer

at people who can sanction the '
killing of cows, sheep, pigs, rabbits and £ U XEDO, at one
chickens for a purely personal purpose, price
(that of satisfying the appetite) simply ;

refuse to have anything to do with a $2 f

supply of cats for scientific purposes,
MADE TO MEASURE

Especially when these investigations
Tip Top Tailors

will be of such a nature as to benefit
mankind.
When this question of supply of
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

t\* \\ocoens*.

a : ers \. es 2
‘\\ Cigarettes

 

CIGARETTES

Save the valuable

Mild and Fragrant “POKER HANDS”

INPERIAL TOBACCO CO.
OF CANADA UNITED

 

 

 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS }|}'
FULL DRESS and .

 

cats has been solved, then and then
only will folks stop wondering where
the cats go during the months of
October and December.

Submitted by,
GANESH SAWH.

1c Mp memes | a FR ed Sa Tee Des BOE ee bee RS, | ee? I Mateos: Ra ==

Shirreff Hall

Commerce
Society

AND

Dalhousie
Crested
Stationery

FARRELL’S

New Store
446 Barrington Street

 

Dear Mum,

The Junior-Sentor
Dance ts the next ‘‘ big
event.”’ You should see
the “ peachy”’ dress I
have bought for tt at
D’Eauville’s, and that
coat I am wearing to

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

2 Cents per day
31 Spring Garden Road

Stores in Dartmouth and Windsor

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax.

<_< == mm — ee cee eee eee ee eee ee eet wom FL —_— ——— a eet a «os om i

Ye ee rem RUNNIN Fe ES PT AE eR eee NN ce | NN eat o 9 a i ee

 

 
aie: DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
yo ell We Pity Our Grandchildren? CASINO
‘Hot Debate | | Auditors Report [College Briefs| =" éaionia

iF romised for we. _Mon-Tues-Wed
Wed. Nig ht euaants ede? 15 Al here again.—Al Nelson, B. GEO. A R LISS

ORink Skat. Com. '2 , was in Halifax for the Fresh
in

Senatona2s, 00 man Ball not so long ago, and also fo ‘ce ”

| Well-known § Speakers | ‘8 | the Med. Hop. She has not missed a © r a Ss
Dalhousie. 500. 00 dance yet this year! DI S RA E L I

De you drink? Smoke? Neck?} Salary Sec- Former 31 Married.— Yvonne Ce Se ere SESE.

urself? not why not. You) retary-Trea- Newnham, Arts '31, who gave up her
3 ught to bs ashamed of yourself. Bees er 00 colleg’ cutee aba rtly Cathrk Christmas “SUNNY SIDE UP” $ 5 0 0
€

  
 
     
 
  
    
  

 

 

 

’
"
/ 4
’
J
d
- é _
’
\
’ "
}
!
i:
il tae
1 - - [
: r AP
-~- i q J
a ae = “ — —~ ——_— =

"

A,

Do you think that your habits are] N.F was married last Thursday. The ‘man

 

 

  
   
  
   
     
  
  
  
     
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
     
     
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

+e going to have se yale ao gos OF Tecohos -100.15 in the case” is Forbes Kennedy, who os| || The Years Best Entertainment
fat > ee. Sidven’s chil dren? hae ons Telegraph, employed at the local Beseen ie Pothier EXTRA SHOWS |
i re Maeiven a few of these questions and| Postage, ae oe 8. The couple will re-| |] Midnight Show Thursday 11.30 |
then come down to the Munro Printing & : Midnight Show Friday 11.30
tentoTHIS. evening and lis- ree NS: 98 Sennen Bileen aieitinn Cameron 2 Mats. Fri. & Sat. 1.15-3.15
Se Henry has yet another name to add to
e-, _ This, ladies and gentlemen, is posi- era dis eet the others,—that of Mamma. The
; tively one of those big opportunities er enng tork brought the Henrys a wee boy last
in the college lite of everyone which} Accounts rh g } y
you just CAN’ T miss! 1927-8 ere wee 29.32 ursday.
* Because Sodales has obtained four 1614. 94 ike heen aicki—Leigh Miller, B
fo the University’s big drawing cards Ea - Cc. See a Foul 06 well-known sorinter has been A R R I C
deb age aes Bee poe Cale Hockey 349.26 quite seriously ill at Hamilton, where |
ec niles if you don’t, you'll regret ii] Basketball 347.36 os is employes with the Otis-Fenson |
aces when you hear your room-, Boxing... 35,70 alee ee € are ae au his iriends WED. and THUR.
siate talle about it. Track. ... 162.20 will wish him a speedy recovery. “THE CARE E |
“Resolved that we should pity| General... 133.32 x, at G riG ) L SS
Ge avaridohildren,”? a CARR A Gerry eaving.—]J. . (Gerry s |
¢ Kelly Morton and Marie Ferguson | Sodales........... 236.09 a ta: = Pe teasing fet ae °F AGE
are deiending the affirmative, and will] D.G. A.C. and, the ere "3 ; * pte
be opposed vehemently by Johnnie Basketball 238.15 francis yrus Eaton, well-known —WITH—
Denon and Gladys Farquharson. SOU ge Pe oan ee DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, Jr || |}
ard ol Ke :
ee Pandtat of '29, debater of note, Glee} Music. ....195.09 Vi : President of the National Coun ‘| FRI. and:SAT.
ea Cub actor second to none, leader of} General in- Ph Salat of te Natio eee ik :
oD several Convocation productions, in-} cluding Ex- cit last anak as the guest of the Kap z ALICE WHITE
Ase cluding the “‘Show-Off,” writer, cheer-}  penditures ee a Sigma Sorority —IN— ; '
Pee leader, Councillor, former Business from “Car- PES SS i Suita b le for Mo st Occ asions
he Be qianeees “fedhtor oo. 1000 College... ¥ 926.76 Fame at Oxford.—Jim Mitchell, THE GIRL FROM
er c a ‘ saREe Gd = ; |
< 7 a ations and in his career, Editor- 1121.85 ee ee et ee et 3 WOOLWORTH’S” Made from fine fur felt, in black only, these ETONIA
mi ied Rte a 1929 ae ee Fionn ee oe Sree pa eo Witt: he has been qeey successful in derbys strike a distinctive note in mens apparel—and
é - an - Ura uetivs [eats a . ’
a a act i nadicion. And ipa leader of the | Rifle Club......... 30.00 poms ; es all the more welcome for petag Srpropriate for nearly
raeases affirmative—change for further fame. ———— 6800.81 oy Se aria Sou I can - every occasion f f
bee But Kelly isn’t alone. Marie Fergu Cash per bank Sept. 21, 1929 485.10|to a Dalhousian, Roy Laurence, Arts
oy PLE him. Another of the -— 29, of forensic fame, and who is now os al)
Goa Fas ieetecwe rhe bac come in with a good $7285.91 studying Law at the eaeeety ot of Eatons Main Floor.
ie  Feputation, despite the fact that she’s er ae ee ee oo eae Lord Nelson |
ee > from C. B. Has represented Glace aionging to be Dac |
1 ar - ie ae ea i. a, St udent Ss N ot e Is it not a notable fact that both the
> aa Be, candidates up for election today are old Hotel Eatonia xX ords

_ Dalhousie students should note with Dalhousians?

satisfaction a recent radical change ie Gactal Cont
effected by the Management of the Freshmen Ball Gate maces eter) |
Lord Nelson Hotel.

Miss Catherine MacLeod recentl a : The Ideal Atmosphere for
of Class 28 a been placed in chase The first annual Freshman Ball held your Saturday Evening

hursday, Jan. 9th was a decided

of the Grill room and has instituted | °™ T Yy> Dance, or at any other time
a change whereby those who frequent | SUCCESS and we hope the Freshmen of for your Bridge parties,
the Grill Room are enabled to dance coming years will be able to see that ae Dinners, Dances, Etc. : 1

have more like this one. It was in the
to their hearts content on a large floor Bad Walesa nadele unin loud crowd

area provided in the center of the]... in attendance. Although the great AFTERNOON TEA,

room.
Splendid music is provided by an ee ging es fiugh Bell ea Orchestra—4.30 to 5.30

ae. ato. ir ee ead Professor and Mrs. J. M. MacDonald
ined with thefact that the prices have .
been reduced to those of other eating | Y°T® the chaperones, Joe Mills supplied SUNDAY CONCERT

places will undoubtedly result in the Dae, music. “Oh yes! It-was a great 9 to 10 p. m.

establishment of a new social center : D.M
for Dalhousie students, savas .
Arts '31.

ORPHEUS THEATRE.

Weill 5 ALL. TALKING Drama tert Programmes
bie “POINTED HEELS”|||| Frogtamm

o F L I G H r " With WILLIAM POWELL, HELEN KANE Letter Heads 4

putation, also Valedictorian for Glace
ay last year.

: But you’ve heard only half. John
e Denoon, Medicine '31, is leading

, powerful opposition, and it certainly

won't be a.l plain sailing for either side,

ohnnie is a popular member of Phi

Kappa Pi and came down from New

lasgow in the fal: of ‘28 to enter third

ear Med. Has debated at the Uni
ersity of Toronto, also at the Univer
sity of Aiberta fo the Rutherford Cup,

presentative of the championsnip

Ane Provinces of Man., Sask., Alta.,

| ind BoC: Brilliant and witty, he

a x? ae ea to score when he rises to‘ morrow night.

. Gladys Farguharson is the remaining speaker. Though we can find out
very little about her, we understand
that she is a P. E. Islander, and came
in asa freshettethis year from Prince of
Wa'es, Char'ettetown, where sne was
Valedictorian last spring. She has also
had considerable debating experience.

- Shirreff Hall is turning out 100%
strong to hear their two representatives’
MEDICINE OUT.

We also understand that in the
Faculty of Medicine, every student who
can reach the Munro Room by any

ae along a notable scholastic

$5.00

.

 

These Oxfords are made of selected leathers, in several
neat and conservative aries for winter wear. Blutcher
and Balmoral cut os a a .. Sizes 6to 10

   

 

Greeting Cards

A 100% TALKING HIT SENSATION FAY WRAY and“‘SKEETS’? GALLAOHER
with JACK HOIT, Lila Lee, Ralph APeieipeané All Telktae Envelopes, etc.
Graves and an all Star Cast. OTHER ATTRACTIONS—SILENT NEWS From

Eatons Third Floor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
       
        
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
    
    

 

 

 

  
   
     
  

        
 

way, means, or method, wi!! be on hand NEW PRICE POLICY
et a ates tee es e a s EVENING PRICES MATINEE PRICES NOVA P RINT, LTD fe
ee what Sodas wants e want a.! the ‘ .
foe Entire Upper Floor - 50c. Entire Upper Floor - 40c.
ha facu'ties to turn out—not only Arts : PP : 227-229 HOLLIS STREET 5
3, aac Law, ? is ve ae custom. Entire Lower Floor - 40c. Sp rr cmtgdg ererek - ak AOE ; MARITIMES LIMITED
ee ter we plan to have Dentistry vs é Sih tA Nise
a Engineering, or some such scheme, if ee WHEN PROMISED SS SS BS I —— |
eel. it can be arranged, to stimulate further
ae _ interest among these other facuities.
a The remaining society debates ths —_—_—_—_—————————
| rf , _ term te oe by ee qtantiing |
| vote of the audience. ter the tour HANES .
Se - $peeches, the meeting is thrown open MACLEOD, BALCOM Ladies i
oh. for anyone to utter their own bright e D
a1? ideas. The rebuttals conclude the LIMITED H O E
) ine DON'T Mis the vote is taken, The Slickest all Rubber
tol Poh lip heeaies IT 34 Morris Street H O P Overshoe in Town at
y A : 174 Spring Garden Rd $1.98 at Show T he
z if You Want to See Well ane voum g Street 283 Spring Garden Read TUTTLE’S
a SEE WALLACE Cor. Quinpool Road Ie The Coll St dc
44 s The College Stud- ' Optometrist and Optician and Oxford Street iciti i
a Y. M. C. A. Blbg. Halifax, N.S. d Bedford ent’s. Shoe Store. SHOE STORES N soliciting Adver tisZz an earor pe rr ee ereee Road. ing for the Dalhousie
] r Low Prices make our ~ arrington Street ;
fe high quality Shoes doubly and Dartmouth. aoa during the
a Get Y, attractive té both men ana e oe i athe a
women. orten been aske ese
ie . "HH rC A. PUBLICOVER rh at questions: ‘‘ We wonder
BY air Cut _ 2 Shops - @ nearest Shoe store to the e if students ever read the
GLELY, Berber Shops||| Winners-- advertisements,” “ Will
; e
ield s OpS|||| 53 SPRING GARDEN RD. the students patronize

 

 
  
   
  
 
  
    
  
   
    
 
   
  

 

an bate

ere is

£

Two Shops us.

41 Sackville ae aad Roy Bldg.

   
  
   
  

  
  
 

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College
SERVICE—Always experienced
Barbers at your service

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at

From the Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade

The
Halifax Chronicle

Some of our Advertisers are beginning to

Mark on Sporting Goods has been doubt it. SHOW THEM

a mark of perfection. No matter

Our Roy Building shop will
oe ae the ladies of Shir
     
   
  

   
  
   

 
  
   
  

‘is

“i
ay
£

‘Phone S448 for appointment.

  

     

    

zy ; Open Saturday Se: 23 Spring Garden Road AND what your favorite sport may be, by making your purbe we can supply you with equipment chases from the merram The that will help you play the game chants who use the
hist with the best that’s i 9 ;

Boy Ww ASH D AY? eee ‘“‘Dalhousie Gazette’’ to

Halifax Daily Star
The

| fastest growing

    
   
    

CR AGG BROS. rr LS what they have
Co., Ltd.

Hardware and Sporting

Goods
HALIFAX, ~- N.S.

   

   
    
   
  

x
Pa ae

The next time you want your
Student S. Laundry finished in a hurry
and want it done neatly ——Call the

| HOME LAUNDRY “2:

a | ye a For Particular People " _ Dry Cleaning, Sponging, Pressing

     
 

mF 7; *.

newspapers ip

Nova Scotia

          

 
