|

niu

Me

ia

,
:

I

 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
    
  
  
      
  
  

VOL; UXIX.

 

Tigers Prove Themselves To Be Tigers

 

cl <f i
ce Show Best Form of Year
i "K'HE Dalhousie Tigers defeated the
React United Services on the Studley Camay pus last Saturday, October 23, in a great
er game that ended with the score 14—3.

Pie For the first time in weeks the Tigers
eS were most convincingly and _ blatantly

a ‘alive’. There was absolutely no sign
a of lassitude or loafing and every man

was on his toes during the whole game.
More than that every man seemed to be
in the best possible shape and to have
ie suddenly acquired hitherto unknown
Pur 5% speed and control. Even the forwards
per looked like gazelles at times and followed
the ball like demons as was proved by
ae the fact that Tupper, who was undoubted. ly the star of the game, made two of the

- touchdowns. In practise Friday ‘‘Tup”’

aa - went over the second team line for a
es touch—the first he'd ever made. Now
ari that he’s got the habit we hope he keeps

_ on making them.
A score of 14—3 would sometimes
_ geem convincing proof of an easy game.

-_-proved ‘
_ with a rush by the Service men and for
nost of the period they hung around
I's flies around’ sugar. Only

 
    

ed at |
e minutes.

   

¢ iG ee h of the period when Tupper

middle
what business Tup had to be on the
 half-liné can be explained in no other
_ way than increased speed on his part.
_ The stands went wild over this case of
lightning striking in a hitherto unviolated
place. However, some of the boys
evidently didn’t intend to change their
ways aS was made manifest when the
‘easy convert was missed ingloriously.
The next try came shortly after the
first one, ‘‘Doc’’ Smith going over after
’ some great half-line combination. Moore’s
mt; convert might have been made with a

: rifle, the ball going exactly midway
. between the goal posts. Just previous
Oa to this try Moore relieved a threatening
attack culminating in a great attempt
i? at a drop-kick, with a grand punt.

The Tigers were not long in adding
another touchdown to their credit when
_Langstroth made a magnificent run
from his own 25 yard line to ten yards
from the enemies’ line when he passed to
Murphy who went over. The convert
again failed, an opponent touching
Moore’s perfect kick.

The second period was mostly all
United Service. They started off with a
rush and a Service man fell on a bountling
ball inside Dal’s line in the first two
minutes after the period started. The
attempt at converting failed.

(Continued on page 4.)

 

WATCH THESE DATES

Dalhousi

  
  
  

If so, this game was the exception that
the rule. The game _ started |

nd the best of luck| _
e touchdown in the} ~

: “The i st break of the game came about |

scored on a ‘pass from Murphy. Just |

DI)

 

TM >

; HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 28th, 1926

 

Aas

l@2zc

  
 
 

 
 

Manitoban Interviews

Mercer

"THE following article, clipped from the

pages of the current Argosy Weekly,
expresses a sentiment not particularly
startling to our ears, coming as it does
from a professor at Dalhousie. We have
reproduced it in the belief that it will
prove of interest to a large number of
Gazette readers:

The following article, clipped from
the pages of the current ‘‘Manitoban”’,
the student publication of the University of Manitoba, expresses a_ sentiment that sounds a little startling to
our ears, coming as it does from a
professor at Dalhousie. We have reproduced it in the belief that it will
prove of interest to a large number
of Argosy readers.

‘‘T would rather have a student who
throws himself into sports or student
activities, so much that he might even
neglect his studies for two or three
years, than the student who comes to
the University with the deliberate in
ie Defeats

 

  
 

be limited to certain types of students.

Speaking of the League of Nations.
he declared that the representatives
should not all be lawyers as they are

at present but should include professors and especially language professors. Professors do more towards doing

away with race hatreds than any others,
if they try, he said.

‘‘Amateur sports are a good aid to

international _ friendliness’’ he _ said.
“professional sport having the opposite effect.’” As an instance of this,

Professor Mercer spoke of the Olym
pic games.

nited Services

~
w

 

PARLEZ=Vous!

ONE OPINION

‘*Four years of going to lectures
that go in one ear and out the
other because there is nothing to
stop them, contributes nothing
to a person’s happiness or equipment.’’

No matter how much one may
want to go to college because of
the social life or the athletics or
other similar secondary reasons,
he must remember that a certain
amount of academic work is
necessary.’

Rita S. Hall

NOT £OO LATE

The Dallusiensia Contest is well under way; many have shown
We prophesy a busy time for the Contest Editor.

their interest.

The answers to last week’s questions are:

     

 

  
  

qaree
irra

 

{11 LLANE

 

NO. 4

 

 

 

 

To Have a Dal Night
At Majestic

Nov. 24 Is Date Chosen

Mr Editor, Ladies and Genilemen:—
I should like to speak to the motion
“We suggest a theatre night; why not
inflict ourselves upon the Majestic—
it might just happen that the entertainment would bea Shakespeare production’
Do you recognize the phrase?—Or does
my delightful audience refrain from
doing anything so rash as to read the
print within the space usually allotted to
the editorial?

My point is this: We are going to have
a Dal Night, and it is going to be at the
Majestic, and it is going to be a Shakespeare production. The date is set—it is
a long way off, but it is worth saving up,
scraping up, and waiting for. On Wednesday evening November 24th, the
students of Dalhousie. will have an
opportunity to ‘‘quicken their ‘esprit de
corps’ And what is more they will
have an opportunity to develop their
“very refined tastes’’ for on that evening
The Glossop-Harris Co. presents “A
Midsummer Night's Dream’. It would
be superfluous to say more; it would be
insulting to urge you to attend when
already you have ‘‘jumped at the chance”’,
when already the first nickel has been
dropped into the mite box. _By November
24th we will expect you with us.

I thank you.
—A. M.

,

 

Rebuttal: watch for advertisements.
And if you do not object to the “‘tipping
system”, the S. C. A. girls would like to
offer you a small (but important) tip—.
Buy your tickets early! Only a limited
number of seats are reserved, and YOU
want to be one of ‘‘the four hundred”’,

DENTS DECIDE

T a meeting held on Thursday, Oct.

21, the Dentals decided that they
would discontinue the annual Dental
Dance for this year at least—or until so
many Seniors graduate that the present
Juniors will have a free hand! It took
three meetings, every possible wile of
Parliamentary procedure and some wiles
that weren’t at all Parliamentary, but the
insurgents finally attained their goal.
To the argument that the Dental Dance
was all that kept the Dental Society
alive in Dal Social Life, they opposed the
argument that the Dental Dance would
probably cost at least $10 and _ that,
anyway, they were tired of serving on
Committees.

Mr. Eaton fired the opening gun when
he moved that all motions should be
adopted by at least 65% of the members
present. In face of strenuous opposition
by Messrs. Taylor and Irwin. The
motion was then made that the dance be
held. This motion was upheld by the
Juniors (including the Pre-Dents). present
to the number of ten. The negative
then voted on the question and the

 

 

Tomorrow: S.C. M. Silhouette Party|tention of getting high marks,” said ’ 6 bee ip . 140 number was also ten. President Barrett’s
Commerce Party Prof. -C. Ey Meus, Prolénor of Mod- (1) Dalhousie was founded in 1818. = = effort to vote in the negative was not
; Sat. Oct. 30: Dal vs Wanderers ern Languages at Dalhousie Univer- (2) The first principal was the Rev. Thomas McCullough. needed due to the motion of Mr. Eaton
& sity, in an interview with the MANI- (3) Four histories of Dalhousie have been printed. Judge on the percentage of votes needed to
F, Noy. 1: First meeting of Glee Club| TOBAN. Patterson’s. MacMechan’s Life of a Little College: Garnet|C@‘ty 4 motion. And so the Juniors
(At the gym: one-act play, Professor Mercer, who was in Win- Sadoamicle ink Dall * Ga; . es 1900 C f Sat (oe 5 ; Q were left holding the tarred end of the
jazz orchestra, etc., etc). nipeg the first of the week, is an en- sedgewick in Uathousie Gazette : entennial Gazette 1918. stick. A sad feature from their stand; thusiastic supporter of the League of ‘ . point was the desertion of several of the
Nov. 2: Girls’ Basketball Nations and has just completed a This week’s questions are: First and Second year to the ranks of
: 4 Lae tour of Western Canada, peaking at those opposed to the Dance.
: ov.4: Law Dance various points on ‘‘International Peace.’’ Tha RG gee es ci es et : : a Hockey and basketball managers were
i Peat: Asta va Med. Seratait cat Tepienede Metase fa 4 prom (1) Where did the two flags in the Library come from, and how? auhclatedinithe: pemens of 68. Charles
ae inent Canadian athlete, having been| _ (2) Where is the banner of St. George? Who gave it to the|“Chook’” Sullivan for Basketball and
ao Noy. 9: Munro Day tennis champion of British Columbia | College? W. H. ‘‘Henry’’ Godsoe for Hockey.
Bs Girls’ Basketball and later of the Maritimes, and one of (3) Who gave Studley its name? Both elections were by acclamation.
ci Football: Law vs. Eng. the ranking players in Canada. . ; Mr. Eaton arose to speak about the
“A man who will get absolutely mad Glee Club and to discuss the advisability
ae Nov. 11: Football: Dent vs Med. over a thing in college, even if it is ath- of having a Dental Night there some time
iy : ¢ letics, will get mad over his work in soon. After much discussion the matter
ee Nov. 16: Girls’ Basketball after life and make the best kind of man.” For the benefit of those-who did not enter last week we print the | was left in the hands of a committee
es Football: Law vs Med Professor Mercer added. “He is much following three questions which they may answer instead. This will composed of Miss Arlie MacDonald and
Bey Glee Club (tentative) superior to the ‘parrot type’ who studies th os: | fc Le ae ‘é. oa a ..,_|Mr. Eaton who were also instructed to
Ae | the particularities or whimsicalities of | PUt them On an equal looting——except that the questions are a little] jook out for talent in the Dental Society
s Dae | ~ Noy. 18: Engineers’ Dance penne in one = get marks.| more difficult—with other entrants. with a view to putting on a show, though
ra” e may get better marks but will not get nothing definite was decided.
a Nov. 22: Imperial Debate pues it as the man who takes (1) What was the Castine Fund? On motion, the meeting then adjourned.
es Nov. 23: Girls’ Basketball Ficgu protesson: exeresced: e6at ~admir- (2) Who called Dalhousie College ‘‘that pastry-cook’s shop”’ —G, B. I,
rt. , ation for the football player and_ those and why?
_ Noy. 24: Theatre Night who really become interested in Univer- (3) When was Dalhousie College a hospital? The first college paper in America,
ier “A Nov. 30: Glee Club (tentative) sity en. Lbs eee ew sat abe : says the Varsity, was published in Dartee _ NOY. SU: upon the statement made by frotessor . . ; , h in 1800, and called ‘‘The Gazette,”
ese Trueman of Mount Allison University, Contestants will kindly remember that their answers must be in a eae. in 1802 afin by Daniel

Dec. 16: Christmas Exams.

that registration in Universities should

before the next Gazette appears.

 

Webster, signed Icarus.

 
 

   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
    
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  

Jalhousie Gasette
(Founded 1869).

eee es OS ua 2 pediton®
| es oo ANDREW HEBB.

Gaz:tte D's;

(in college)
J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
F. A. CRICHLOW
SIDNEY GILCHRIST
ARTHUR L. MURPHY

Bs <a Editors:
“AVIS. MARSHALL

HERBERT DAVIDSON
BYRON IRWIN
- GEORGE Macl NTOSH

Seah St" Business Manager.

a REP _ J.J. LYSONS ATWOOD
aaa? . 348 Robie St.

5 Um Phone S. 1935

> weet _ Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year.

 

 

Too Broadminded

pee za PEN-MINDEDNESS is empty-mindedness. The man who is
ene () without bias is without idea—on any subject there is only one
Beye ses -way to be impartial and that is not to think about it. The
Hip _monent you begin to ponder a problem you become biassed; there is
mt ~ no such thing as an impartial opinion—the term is a contradiction.
a Not even on the weather—not though you say: ‘“‘Yes and no. It is
; If it is an opinion it is not impartial and if it is

_ good and it is bad.”
Blessed are the biassed.

impartial it is not an opinion.
not. confuse bias with prejudice. Prejudice is judging we know not,
No one will!

what; it is forming an opinion before we know the facts.
advocate prejudice; bias is an excellent thing.

bee Se she ie ae

______Open-mindedness is a disease which comes to us all—few recover.
_ We are not long at college before we begin to pride ourselves on being
; aided. It is the result of education in doses SPR. larger

» in various ways—it depends on how badly we are afflicted. A large
number of students at one time or another say themselves to be atheists.
_ They forget that to be an atheist in a godly community is anything but
impartiality; also, of course, that a person cannot become an atheist
_ byamere co aes think-so.

pce

“A far more ‘general indication of the pe ae disease is a lack
mi teres’ in the conduct of national affairs. Most of us do not take
% 3 we—who are going to run the country tomorrow—
: We take no real interest in it—we
| We get to the point where we say:

ner” or, as we used to say, “Meighen
> we bracket the political parties. All
at one party is not. bad and that one
ee ather A: scoundrel. If we do not think this
ould th ink { itor somet ing like it; if we do think it we should be
honest. Every Canadian should have some political beliefs. There
es re two big. ideas in Canadian politics: these two ideas are behind—
a sometimes quite a distance—the policies of the two large parties. !

Those two ideas are fundamental and diametrically opposed to each |
Lids Sts other. No man, who has done any thinking at all, can consider the
question and remain a non-participant. He will immediately become
eee zealot of one party or the other; the division between the two is
fundamental; no intelligent Canadian can sit on the fence. Unless of
ast course he suffers from open-mindedness. Our disease causes us to
. treat-public life as a joke.

  

  
    
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
   

Our politicians also treat lightly national affairs. Are we not
partly to blame? If we took Canada seriously the politicians would
be much more likely to do the same. There is no doubt but that most
of them do nothing of the kind. At the time of the recent federal
_. . election a newspaper writer said that the two men who were probably
most interested in the outcome of the election were Dunning and
Stevens. He meant that these two men were hoping—so that they

might get an opportunity to lead their respective parties—that their
parties and the principles for which they themselves stood would be
_ defeated! Whether or not such thoughts ever entered their heads the
_+ faet remains that we consider that attitude quite all right. Perhaps
- our own attitudes are something the same! Is it any wonder that we
do not always go ahead by leaps and bounds?

oe There is only one thing for us to do and that is to throw openmindedness to the winds. ‘‘A liberal education is supposed to free
one from political, religious and race prejudices, to show one how to
Pe evaluate data and come to logical conclusions, to enable one to study
--.a problem without bias and base conclusions on facts, rather than on
hereditary predispositions and emotions,,”’ said the President of Mt.
See m4 _ Allison in a recent newspaper article. That is all to the good: let us
) BieaOrm Our opinions as he suggests and, until we see more light, stay by
them. On important questions such as national policies let us take
sides honestly and vigorously. We will not become partisans for the
7 - mere sake of being on a side—like Steenie Steenson, in Wandering
- Willie’s Tale, who ‘‘became a Tory, as they ca’ it, which we now ca’
Jacobites, just out of a kind of needcessity, that he might belang
~ to some side or other.” We will take a side because we believe in it;
we will take an interest in public affairs. The new Superintendent
of Education Says, according to press reports, that ten years of teaching
eee in the schools will solve all of Nova Scotia’s problems.
~ How can he be so hopeful when we—who have had the benefit of his
__ personal teaching when he was Prof. Munro—are such poor citizens?
Let us wake up! Let us take an interest in the country—and let us
se, iz ‘ feel that if our own opinions do not prevail the country will go to the
re ‘dogs! Let open-mindedness no longer stifle our thoughts! Then we
re ao accomplish something.

 

“+ 8>- CASINO NOTES

eet a special attraction at the Casino
_.« Theatre this week end is the first chapter
_» of the serial “The Fizhting Marine” in
- Gene Tunney, World's heavyt champion. is starred. There are

What is reputed to be the greatest of
all British productions opens a 3 days
run at the Casino on Monday, when
“The Unwanted” will be given it’s first
local showings. Many of the scenes
in 'this production were actually photoknockout chapters and it is expected graphed by German cameramen from
> crowds will “be. pret for HRe dug-out and shell craters on the outskirts

saab 4 ; of no-man’s land.

7‘
—

4 A
ev
_*

 
 
 

We must, bin

|

wt ee
hn, ten nets

7 bu? n
a errs y

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

PROFS. TRIM TIGERS.

HE challenge to the Faculty football

squad issued by Manager Doull of the
Dalhousie fifteen, eager to avenge the
recent defeat at the hands of the Bermudians,. resulted in one of the most
closely contested games witnessed here in
recent years.

Weather conditions were ideal and a

huge crowd of possibly one hundred and
fifty swayed the grandstands with incessent roars of mingled approval and
dismay. Play began at two forty-seven,
and Prof. Theakston, playing center
lock for the professional aggregation,
after a ‘‘players” inhale took the kick-off
and projected the oval at an angle of fortyfive degrees from the horizontal plane.
It passed between the sun, and Dr.
Bronson, thinking that an elipse had
occurred, exclaimed in an all too audible
voice, “Ye Gods, My kingdom for a
| camera.” The ball crashed into the
open arms of Moore, who with a mighty
drop kick relieved the situation. Prof.
Todd, misjudging the direction of the
pigskin, in his frantic efforts to obtain
possession, received it on his cranial
protuberance. A violent reaction took
place in which he was precipitated to the
ground. Prof. Nickerson, running over,
collected the residue and added one litre
of C2 Hi Oh from a flask and a counter
reaction occurred, the precipitate assuming a similar but much more volatile
consistency than formerly.
Prof. MacMechan, star faculty half
er, co'legiately garbed in yellow stockings, cross name in black and wearing
other than conventional football attire,
touched for safety.

Prof. Johnston teed off on the twenty
five yard line; however having no caddie
dropped the ball into touch for a small
or no gain. He said that the ultimate
direction of the ball represented the
resultant between the S. E. wind blowing
at 15 miles per hour and the force and
direction of his pedal extremities.

Johnnie Dobson, playing block quarter
for the Tigers called a scrum and Gaotberon and Bronson heeled out admirably
to picking quarter Herb Stewart, who
with his native grasping instinct, plucked
the ball, passing to Walker who with a
murmured ‘Bai Jawve’’, holding the
ball with one hand and his mortar board
with the other, tore through the Dalhousie backfield, depositing his burden
behind the goal posts. 
Professors Bronson and Johnson thereupon seated themselves in the center of
the field and after a short consultation
announced Pro. Walker's acceleration
to be 3 ft. per sec. per sec. Half liner
Geo. Wilson pronounced the run to be
the fastest in history, barring Pompey’s
flight from Julius Caesar in 49 B. C.

Prof. Bell, in the faculty grandstand,
who had been a close contender for
Todd’s position at fullback remarked in
his usual humorous manner that the
hero's name was Walker but should have
been Runner. This weak pun was much
appreciated by the other six people on
the grandstand. Miss Lowe exclaiming
that it was simply priceless.

Prof. Bennet the star Anzac kicker for
the faculty team failed to convert. His
gory locks obscuring his vision.

Play then zigzagged back and forth
with both teams on the offensive and
displaying a superior brand of ball.
The only exciting interval being when
Jock Cameron attempted to hurdle over
Bunker Murphy and landed on_ the
acromial end of his clavicle, sustaining
a fracture in the subcutaneous region
mid way between the origin of the pectoralis major and the deltoid tuburcle,
which might be described as being on

 

the outer third of tHe anterion aspect of
the clavicle at the inner end of the
clavicular origin of the deltoid.

Play was soon resumed and the period
ended 3—0 for the faculty.

The beginning of the second period was
featured by a yell from the faculty
expondents under the aesthetic guidance
of Professor Bell.

1—2—3

U—Pi—Dee

Faculty of Dalhousie.

At quizzes, plucks and drinking beer

We supersede the Engineer

F*A*C*U*L* TY.

(Due credit must here be given to Dr.
MacMechan for the concoction of this
delightful little ditty.)

_ The play in this frame was marked by
the usual increased efforts of the first
team men, the perfect passing of the
half-line finally resulting in a pretty
hundred yard run, Doc Smith going
over the line for their first touch of the
game under a_ slight handicap—Prof.
Todd the faculty fullback passionately
clutching him around the neck.

Prof. Gautheron here passed some
remarks to the effect that Prof. Todd
reminded him of a ‘‘cravat” blowing
behind as ‘“‘Doc’”’ cut the wind. A fight
was about to ensue but further hostilities
were prevented by Prof. Mercer who
advocated a peace conference. Both
nationalities respected his remarks and
play was resumed.

The Tiger's touch was converted by
Moore, giving tham a two point lead.

Things were becoming serious so Dr.
MacMechan called a pow-pow in center
field. At his words, as Howard Murray
afterwards said, ‘‘Conticuere omnes intentique ora tenebat”, and then ‘‘Fortius
pugnaverunt”’.

The fae ulty forwards then resorted to
dribbling tactics and Professor Macintosh
finding “himself for the first time in
possession of the ball, stopped in midfield and holding up the ball demonstratively remarked in true geological
style, ‘‘We have here an unparalleled
specimen of concoidal fracture and
after removing the gangue, the deep
striae of the ice age is revealed’’ His
impromptu lecture was terminated by
the referee’s whistle and a scrum ensue
Gautheron in true collegiate grid- iron
style gave the code orders for the next
play, ‘‘Trois—Sept—Neuf”’ meaning play
for your lives oh comrades as Todd is playing to the grandstand. Mercer misconstrued the inference and thinking a
touchdown was wanted made one. At
this important stage of the game Profs.
Johnston, Bronson and Theakston held a
consultation regarding the converting
of the bal}. » Angles, forces, the weight of
Prof. Theakston’s feet and the distance
all being carefully measured the ball was
successfully guided over the cross bar.
Thus marking the final score of the game
which was uneventful from this time until
the final whistle. The official score was
8 in favour of the faculty. The
line judges and referee played expecially
good games.

A return game will be played during the
Xmas vacation on the Studley Quoit
grounds, (weather permitting.)

The faculty lined up as follows :—

Faculty;—Forwards, Gautheron, Bronson, Theakston and Johnston, MacIntosh,
Bennet and Murray. Quarters, H. Stewart, Nickerson and Walker. Halves,
Mercer, Wilson, MacMechan and Cameron. Fullback, Professor Todd.

 

  

 

 

Biggest Dance of Biggest Year

 

OU may have danced ever since you

came to Dalhousie and even long
before. You may have learned since
college opened this fall. But whoever
you are you have never yet been to a
dance which can come up to or even
compare with the last dance of 1926 the
final grand fling before the plugging
starts, the Boilermaker’s Ball sponsored
by a soeiety famous for its good times—
the Dalhousie Engineers.

A dance which will long be remembered
for its unusual features for the whole
dance is a novelty from beginning to end,
an entirely new departure from all that
has been dance custom at Dalhousie for
many years. The decorations will hold
you breathless, you have never seen
their like before. Hitherto the dancers
at the gym have been satisfied with a
far too sterotyped decoration scheme—
here you will get achange. The orchestra
is the best in Halifax, the music the latest
and peppiest—here too, you will receive
surprises and truly Dalhousie surprises
too. The refreshments will be satisfying,
you will agree when you have partaken,
and the punch—well, just come and try
it.

Some say we are a secondary society,
b t this is no secondary dance, and no
expense is being spared to make this the
biggest dance of the biggest year Dalhousie
has had in a decade. Whether you be
Freshman, Sophomore, Junior or Senior,
whether you be Artsman, Lawyer, Dental
or Med. —GOME, and we promise you
a rattling good time.

The Dalhousie set ak

of ; \ i +o « : P
an is a my ! ate ibaa “ee!

0 Si re. me wr. eS So s a
Eek ten rT og ae ee ey: 7
Ni a9 aaa 4g a a .

poms * ok - ens Se oe ee
os - an - ~~ ie is —— 7y

   
 
  

A Freshette had a little toy,
It’s bell was made to sing;

And everywhere that Freshette went
That bell was sure to ring.

And thus the Sophettes turned them out
In caps—oh! so decoy!

And waited patiently to see
Each Freshette drag her toy.

It followed her to Dal each day,
Which was the hard, firm rule.

It made the Profs. insane to hear
Those bells so plentiful.

Then each Freshette was told
That penalty would befall;

If she were seen without her cap
In any place at all!

The Freshettes up in arms did go,
But nothing was availed.

For until October twentieth,
Their bells must needs be trailed.

And so to-day each one may see
Them all arrayed in hats.

Those bells are gone—oh happy day,
But we are still Freshettes!

 

—_—.

We print ‘the above verse for three
reasons:

(1) It is rather good.

(2) It has no title. If. contributors
have any hope that we will use their work
they should supply  titles—the oases
cannot do them justice.

a) Siti ae anonymous. “We cannot
print material without knowing what
genius is responsible. And how are we-to
know where to deliver your prizes?

a

October 28th, 1926

SYMPATHY

Dalhousians sympathize with
Mr. E. M. MacLeod, a member of

Arts ’26, in the recent loss of his

father, Mr. A. M. MacLeod of

Sydney, C. B.

 

Sunrise

 

The air is cool and still and clear,
There is but whisper of a wind
That rustles leaves all silver lined,
Methinks the dawn is very near.

The birds have twittered, now their
calls

Ring out upon the list’ning air:

A robin warbling to his fair,

A phoebe’s cadence on us falls.

Far in the distance echo loud

The mighty tones of chanticleer,
And from a farm hard by I hear
An answer to his greeting proud.

Across the hill there comes the sound
Of farmer driving horse to plough:
A dog barks close beside him now,
Their steps are firm upon the ground.

The dome of heaven is as blue

As it alone can ever be,

And ’gainst the sky northwesterly
The mountain leans in sombre hue.

Eastward the glow is growing bright.

Behind the orchard leaved with green
A sudden ray of gold is seen,

It shoots up to the mountain’s height.

The sun peeps o’er the waiting hill:
Changing and gladdening every hue
Its radiance gilds the world anew,

From craggy mount to swirling rill.

The morn has come, this is the dawn,
Aurora holds her wonted sway,

The curtain of another day

Lifted, across the sky is drawn.

— Mee.

 

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

 

At sixty D. MacGillivray gives up
banking to become a_ lawyer! In
accepting an honorary membership in
the Law Society he said that the only
complete course which he had attended
at Dalhousie had been in the Law School.
He referred to the course of lectures
which the learned Quebec jurist, who
visited Dalhousie last winter, gave in
civil law.

*x* * *

On the same occasion—the Law Luncheon of last week—Dr. Munro said that
he considered it a privilege to address the
Law Society. “You will become,’ he
said, ‘‘mayors and magistrates, members
of parliament, leaders in the community.
You will some day be in a position t help
in the educational reforms which we must
make,”’

* * *
Lieut.-Col. J. Keiller MacKay, LL.B.
‘22, as National Vice-Chairman of the

Canadian Legion of the British Empire

Service is rendering exceptional service.

A recent issue of the Legionary carries

a short biography and a full page portrait.
*

For the benefit of the President of the
Law Society we reprint from the Acadia
Athenaeum the following: ‘‘Barbara wants
to know what to do lor the love of Pete’. ‘a

* *

The Freshman Class held a party at
Shirreff Hall on Tuesday evening. It is
no exaggeration to say that it was the
best party that Class "30 has ever had.

* *

Like the phoenix, rising to new life
out of its ashes, Class’28 rose out of its
pessimism, rejuvenated! Such is the
verdict of those present at the Woman’s
Club on Friday evening. A beautiful
night, wonderful home-like environment,
loads of refreshments, smiling chaperones—Prof. and Mrs. Bell. A congenial gathering and a perfectly good time.

Prof. im Biology I. ‘‘The nummulates
were sO numerous in the Eocene period
that their bodies made up large deposits
of rock. Strange to say only one of the
nummulates is alive to-day”!

Freshette ‘‘How did they keep it, sir?”’

*: Freshmen in ae (defining protozoa )
The protozoa are a: ‘1 unicelluar.”’
Praf. “So was your. old man at one
stage "'
* * *
Dr. Pine has joined the staff of Pine
Hill College. What's sin a name?

Is Dalhousie a Wi ieroiat Bureau?
The question has not yet been satisfactorily answered, but it has been
pointed out that most of the feminine

advisors have been assigned to our two

most eligible bachelor advisors.

Last W aa Bill Outhit and Gerald
Godsoe crossed swords in the Dalhousie
Moot Court. Their lordships Hugh
Huggins, Peter Judge and Henry. Hudson
have not yet handed down their judgements. The; able arguments. made by
the junior counsel—MacLeod and MacLellan —wil | make, the; task of the
court no easier.

 

 

 

 
= a whe ee — es

” ies

   
  
  
 
   
   
   
    
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
   
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

 

A GOOD-NIGHT ©

> sunset quickens along the lake,
arkness thickens on copse and brake.
warm air hardens by granite walls,
cottage gardens a chillness falls.
blue mist lingers half up the steep,
Long gray fog-fingers inland creep.
_ Ascent comes trailing from fields of hay,
An owl starts wailing a rood away.
A blood-red maple flings challenge afar
_ Till ‘‘Peace!”’ sings a lonely vibrating star
_ The hands of Dusk have buried light—
_ Light to me! Sun to me! Star! Good-night.
i. M.A. B.

 

   
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
   
    
  
    
    

a world in general, I think, looks

“* on smuggling as being one of the
rather minor sins. Sailors, on the other
hand, regard it as a thrilling little game
with the Customs officials—if one loses,
one pays a fine and feels subdued—if one
wins, one reaps a small profit and the
satisfaction of winning the ‘‘trick’”’. Of
course the smuggling that I am referring
to is what might be called the harmless
variety, such as slipping through a few
curios, a yard of two of silk, or a little
tobacco free of duty and not that of
running drugs, guns, expensive jewelry
and the like, which is a very serious
offence against the excise laws of all
countries.

This is the account of a successful
encounter between two friends of mine
and the Liverpool Dock folice, which
required a bit more thought than the
method used by another of my friends,
in evading the customs laws of the
Argentine Republic. He simply stuffed
his size thirty three waist inside six
size twenty-eight ladies corsets—how he
did it, the Lord only knows—and then
marched past the customs man with a
sad smile peeking over the top of. his
greatcoat collar.

Liverpool Docks, like those of a great
many large English ports, are surrounded
by a high wall. At each of the various
gates is stationed a revenue officer or a
policeman, whose duty it is to examine
all people entering or leaving and to do
what he can to prevent smuggling.

My two friends had, on various occasions, tried to carry contrabrand through
but had always been caught. This time

7 :
a) Se

7 *
—

- FARMER GREY’S COURTSHIP

. I JEST came Up from Somerset. My
_ ™ name is Farmer Grey and betwee nyou
_ and me My Girl’s a Crackerjack, that’s sartin, for You Can’t Fool an Old Horse Fly.
- The other day I hitched up my Horses
_ and although it was haying time Down
" ~_—_—_ on the Farm and | was pretty well rushed
o x I decided to Let the Rest of the World Go
_ By and take out Sweet Peggy O’ Neill.
I had a hankerin’ after that ’ere gal ever
since my School Days, for she’s only
Seventeen and A Little Bit of Heaven and
that’s a fact. “Old Friend of Mine"
sez I, ‘Put on Your Old Gray Bonnet, for
although The Old Gray Mare Ain't What
_ She Used to Be, we kin have A Hot Time
an the Old Town To-night—''Thanks for
the Buggy Ride,’’ sez she as she got into
_ the waggon, ‘“‘Hasn’t it been A Perfect
_ Day and the way it looks now Jt Ain’t
_ Agoin to Rain No More. I've been
sittin’ Under the Lilacs thinking, Shail
I Have ii Bobbed Or Shingled.”’ Sez. |
_ to her, sez I, ‘‘You're as well put up as a
No. 1 Gravenstein jest as you are, That's
i Why I Love You.’ 1 put my arm around
_- her and threw the reins over the dashboard. She snuggled down beside me
"~~ asnice as you please. Then I up an’ done
it and in a few minutes was thinkin’
Why Did I Kiss That Girl? but the little
critter seemed to like it an’ looked up
_ at me an’ sez, ‘‘ K- K- K- Kiss Me Again.”
i I done my duty noble and the evenin’
_ glipped away before I knew it.
~~ almost Three O’Clock in the
_ before we started Rolling Home
_. © Long Long Trail.
Sa" cars C. B. MOORE

 

—
ae

Sg ene a
Ce Nae

a
S

7,
rae a We

os
|

i
c

Ta es

3 toe!

af,
‘J

i

es
rere

WHAT PUT THE GO IN THE GHOST
TRAIN?

“THERE was gnashing of teeth and

pulling of hair; there were shrieks and
sighs, and sounds unwholesome, but with
all its morbidity ‘‘The Ghost Train” had
agreatappeal. ‘‘Latent Morbid Nature”’
“Complex emotions’—page Prof. Symmons, he can tell you all about it. This
article is here to tell you that there was
more to the Ghost Train than met the

It was
Morning
down the

iv —- ear. Do you pale that it joes no =

pr Sete etn enh tes than twelve people to put the go in the
_ _NURSE’S NOTES _ ghost train? : i : fe

Bagh > kee eC ean +4 ..... | A roller dragged over actual sleepers;

8S ENOU ‘d say. |two drums; a huge iron thunder sheet

surgeon had 's eel cut —s—<“(s~S~=~s  SuSpended in mid-air; a ‘‘chug-chug”’

nis €ye—and_he lay ~~ | machine, a ‘‘wind-maker”, ‘‘a_rain
‘the c but _.,  |ticker’’, two large pieces of sand paper

‘know this man Jim rubbed together; and for lighting effects,

et oo eka. tal sparkler and two pots .of chemicals

tn Woe pees with care— |beneath each window, was burned.

ot the least little bit could he see. And mind you these were not worked

And strict orders were left us for fear
_ The binder should slip—Ah me, _
Reet A tinder was nothing to Jim.

hodge-podge. Everything was calculated
| with arithmetical precision. Each and

everyone of these various instruments
played its part in producing a rhythmical
whole. The greatest credit for the
success of the show goes to those who
so ardently worked to put the ‘‘go” in the
Ghost Train.

__He had been on his back for three days,
Not one mutinous thought had he shown.
- Though he’d say ‘Me no speak well
Anglaise,
' And there’s no French worse than my ownr I managed to talk some to Jim.
Each meal time I'd bring him his tray— YELLOW
~It had nothing but liquids it’s true—
And after I’d fed him he'd say,
“*7Zat was good—! Oh merci beaucoup.”
The soul of politeness was Jim!

 

There are yellow taxis, sweetheart,
And Yellow street-cars, too.

And when a man is cowardly
They say he’s yellow, too.

_ At last I brought Jim a meal—

With the dishes a well man would take—

No need for my French did I feel
‘Till I'd seen the last of the cake

So very busy was Jim.

There’s vellow in some flashing curls—
A sunflower on a hill—

But the only yellow wanted
Is borne by a yellow bill.

W. P. Perrv, a Mt. Allison cheerleader
and debater is coming to Pine Hill to do
post-graduate work.

ae
PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING
receive our special attention
ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Liz ited

Then—who said he had to be still—

_ He sat up in bed like a streak.

His eyes were bandaged with skill.

Yet he kissed me hard on the cheek—_
Enraptured with eating—poor Jim!

 

I forgot all the French that I know—
And even that Jim had been rude—
And the dangers of hemorrhage too.

I fled-dazed by the power of food— _
Such a typical man—that Jim!

X 5 BUTTONS ON
ie D RENTS MENDED
et kJ ||| HOLES DARNED
EVERSTUING |
3 Jor te |

<
J

 

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s,

VALETERIA

 

ALL we want you to do
: is to come ia and inspect our football wares. .
They s p e a k for them| selves. The quality is
trade-marked on every
garment.

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pres
_ sed, for 75c or 4 Tickits
for $2.00.

UNGAR’S

“Recreation Headquarters”

ey nas ag

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

- Sack. 428 Har. 127

- LAUNDERING DYEING
. CLEANING, |... ~VALETERIA

454 BARRINGTON
STREET

peas €¥

aa

 

THE GENTLE ART

 

 

 

are | FHlorning Chronicle

», DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Freshie-Soph Has Small
Stag-line

 

they vowed that they would get through.
After the ship had been docked for several
days, one bright morning they came
rolling up to the gate carrying a box
between them, by means of rope handles
and as usual, were stopped.

‘Well’ said the “bobby”’ on guard,
‘What have you got there this time?”

“Only the ship’s cat, answered one of
the pair, ‘‘We're taking it up to ‘the
‘old man’s’ house. His wife's wanting
company, I guess when the old fellow’s
away.”

“You may be telling the truth,’ said
the bobby, ‘‘But I’ve got to see that cat
before you can pass.”’

After a little arguing, a little but not
too much, they opened the box and
accidently, oh! quite accidentally, opened
it too wide. The cat was there all right
and like a wise beast, left hurriedly for
home and dinner via the dock side and the
gang-plank.

‘There you are!” cried one of them,
“It took half a day to catch it, and it'll
take twice as long to catch the blinkin
thing again."’ The ‘bobby’ was very
apologetic and finally, after a volley or
two of curses, the two headed back for the
ship. As soon as they were aboard, they
filled up the box with a particularly choice
brand of tobacco and after a decent
interval came swinging back to the
gate with it.

“Did you get it all right?”’ asked the

There was nothing ‘‘green” about this
year's Freshie-Soph. We are wondering
whether the decorations were a tribute to
Freshmen fighting-blood! Certainly they
were original and the effect was decidedly
cheery.

There seemed to be a big crowd, even
for the Freshie-Soph and it couldn't have
been entirely due to the Bermudians.
Though the attendance was so large,
the stag-line was conspicuously small.
Are the Freshettes particularly alluring
this year, or is My Lady Nicotine the
attraction?

The youth and beauty were not by
any means confined to the undergraduates.
The chaperones were Dr. and Mrs.Nichols,
Miss Lowe and Dr. Wilson. Also, some
of the city’s rising young lawyers turned
up. Freddie never could resist a Dal
dance!

On the whole, we think Class '29 were
quite successful in putting over another
‘best Freshie-Soph yet.”’

 

McGill and N. S. Agricultural College
have entered into affiliation providing
for an exchange of professors whereby
our two-year course will be equivalent to
two years at MacDonald.

Errol Amaron is President of the
Students’ Union at McGill.

 

 

policeman.
“Ay,” they answered, ‘‘Want to see it
again?”
“Oh! no, once is enough. Pass along!’’
And they did. —S.

Living
In Halifax
While living in Halifax
we want you to feel that |
The Green Lantern was

designed for your pleasure and comfort.

Lunches, Ices,

The Toronto Fair Sex have banned the
academic debate in favour of the openhouse debate.

| ARTHUR & CONN

LIMITED
| Electrical Contractors—
Repairs Promptly Executed

|
| 100 ARGYLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S. |
| Phone Sackville 512

————————

 

 

 

 

    

 

;

Drinks

The Green Lantern

    
 

 

 

 

é WANWy ALRCE :
S& ae ~~ “ep,
_ LE et WEllser CES & ‘Compare this for value:
a.....71 ‘ Oo SNe? : : :
~ £€ % ||| 72 Sheets of Paper
“4106. WY AN pve 72 Envelopes

each embossed with
Dalhousie crest.
Packed in neat box.

$1.85
FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

A FRIEND OF THE
COLLEGES

Che

AND

Che Evening Echo

Nearest Stationer to your College.

 

Clothes Seen at the Colleges |
Suits, Overcoats
and Furnishings

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

Wei «Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.

HALIFAX

 

   

ies

 

Bagginess was ne’er in style
Our pressing service is worthwhile.

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

 

Sponging and pressing _Testores
the freshness and the stylish lines
of your suit. Phone us to call.

- “For Your A ppearance’s Sake’’

HUBLEY’S

CLEANERS & DYERS
52 SACKVILLE STREET

Next to Strand Theatre
Phone S 109

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 2) cents extra.

 

     

ANNUAL LAW DANCE

Auditorium, Tobin Street

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4th
Dancing 8.30 | Double Tickets $2.00

Single Tickets may be obta:ned at the door.

Joe Mills Orchestra
; BEST IN TOWN. :
Tickets may be obtained from.the Committee...

 

    
      
     
  

 
  

 

Page Three

 

MON. - TUES. - WED.

“RED DICE”

ROD LA ROCQUE
MARGUERITE DE LA MOTTE

THU. - FRI, - SAT.

“TOWER OF LIES”
LON CHANEY
NORMA SHEARER

CASINO

THIS WEEK-END

TOM MIX
“No Man’s Gold”

OPENING CHAPTER OF

The Fighting Marine
STARRING .

GENE TUNNEY

“The Unwanted”

Greatest British Production
ever made.

As big as life itself.

Mayestic

THE GLOSSOPHARRIS CO.

PRESENT
THUR.-FRI.-SAT., OCT. 28-29:30

“THE FAKE”

Frederick Lonsdale’s Drama.

ENTIRE WEEK OF NOV. 1st

“BEST PEOPLE”

The Company’s outstanding
performance.

 

To readers of

The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend

Kinley’s
FSA REXALL
DRUG STORE

For everything in

 

 

| Drug | Store Needs

.

 

 

 
    
    
  
  

  

nudians Show

rmudians Play Fine
_- Game i

Gam
A'S touring rugby team
owed a complete reversal of form
rprised the Dalhousie Tigers by
ing them a five to three defeat.
‘Little was expected in the line of
-_9pposition by the Dalhousie stalwarts and
_ their rooters, but the Bermudians gave a
fine example of courage and grit when
they came through with a win after
~ sucha disastrous match a few days
ne re | us. ~ aan ;
a True the Dal boys were not in their.
best form and missed many chances
to. score by_ making fumbles at critical
moments. “But it is all in the game and
at times the rooters fell down quite as
_ badly as their mates on the field. People
individually and collectively have their
lapses in good behaviour and a helping
‘hand is more noticeable than the one
which shoves a person farther into the
-, dumps. It was an unexpected defeat
fe > but ‘watch the boys smoke now and be

?

  

 
 

    
    
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
      
      
     
     

  

 
 

  

 
    
 

 
 
 

  

  
 

  

  

  

‘3

\

ery hie
‘ J
Ot he

  

 
 

 

7

  

  

  

= 7 waa on hand to cheer them along.
e peat “+. * re Game

-——s«#Play started off with a cold wind
Be Pe a - across the campus, chilling both
the players and their respective rooters.
~ Play went from end to end with little
advantage to either team. Both sides
 -were awarded free kicks near their
-_ opponent’s line but the two kicks went
=. astray. Just before the whistle Tirming‘ham picked up a loose ball and_unay corked his speed for a beautiful run from
re

 

  

  

  

 

    

 

  

center field and placed the ball over the
- fine for a touch. Churcher scored the
extra points when he boosted the ball
over the bar from a difficult angle.

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

aks Poke os Second Half
Free kicks were fairly numerous in this
half but no points were scored. After
~ five minutes of play the Dal half line went
. action and a try resulted from the
abination, Suther and to Beardsley
Murphy to Beardsley. T hat ended
scoring but both teams were at it

 

 

  

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
 
 

any times only a ittle
y ines

 

  
    
    
    

 
      
 
     
    
    
    
    
       

     
   
   
 

Ch Berwhen one of the}

 
  
     
 

Reversal of Form

| | Surprise Dal with 5—3 Defeat

 

TIGER-CUBS HAVE
GROWING PAINS

“Well, at any rate it took our com
rades to do it, might have been the
exclamation of any Dalhousie student
after the Dalhousie—Kings game, which
the Juniors won, 12—3, last Saturday on
the Studley grounds.
might have had reference to anything
but what-it did have reference to was the
fact that a perfect record had been marred
for at last the Juniors had been scored on. |’

The exclamation

owever, there is still one lingering

tay of hope upon which we can cast our
eyes—for, up to date,
has not been crossed. The
sanctuary proved impervious to a direct
frontal attack but an aeroplane attack
succeeded for the only score for Kings
came on the wings of a penalty kick
from the boot of Geof. Andrew, that
hurtled like a shall over the bar for the

the Juniors’ line
inviolate

prettist piece of kicking seen on the

Studley Grounds this year.

The first period was marked by great
half-line work on the part of the Tigers.
Which, of course, necessitated good work
on the part of the scrum and the quarters.
Jones saved several times with great kicks
to touch. If- Jones could convert as
well as he can kick to touch, a great
problem would be solved.

The second period saw some more
great work. Andrew and Jakeman were
starring for Kings with Ernst and Coleman also doing prodigies of valor. However that half line of the Tigers would not
be denied and although great runs by
MacLeod, Jennings, Bayne and Townsend led to nothing, Sutherland finally
went over. This red-headed lad is a
real plunging quarter. Petsonally, we'd
toss up a coin if asked to pick between
that quarter line of Jennings, Sutherland
and A. MacDonald and the Senior
Quarter line. However, Sutherland went
over. And the touchdown was not
converted. an

At this time, Kings unleashed a fierce

offensive and the boys were hard put to}
it for a while. 
However, a few good
half line runs particularly by Bayne and
MacLeod re

  

elieved the pressure and]

 

Interfaculty Standing

The standing of the various
teams in the Interfaculty Football
League to date (Oct. 25th) follows.
So far only one real game has
taken place, between Engineers
and Arts, Engineers winning 5-0.
Law and Dentistry have postponed one game and Dentistry claims
another by default from Arts.

Teams. W L Percent
Dentistry 1 0 1.000
Engineers 1 0 1.000
Arts 0 2 0.000
Medicine 0 0 0.0090
Law 0 0 0.000

 

The following item appears in a recent
issue of the Varsity: ‘‘The Dalhousie
Gazette” the oldest college journal in
Canada, having been established in the
winter of 1868-69.”

att SS ee

Play was resumed but no further
scoring took place. An interesting viewpoint at this time and during the whole
game was the expression of the good-will
that existed between the teams. Scarcely
ever has such a good, clean game been
played on Studley Campus. Kings College is to be congratulated on having
such a good, clean, hard-fighting team.

The referee; ‘‘Jim’’ MacDonald, gave a

good exhibition of keen and _impartial |

directing of play.
(Line up)

Dalhousie:—Forwards, M. McMillan,
D. McMillan, Campbell, Delaney, H.
Godsoe, G. Godsoe, Mitchell.
Jennings, Sutherland,
Halves, McLeod, McLellan, Bayne, Townsend. F. back, Jones.

Fader's Pharmacy, Ltd.

DISFENSING
CHEMISTS —

ACADIA DRUG STORE

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Quarters, | |
A. MacDonald. ||

 

 

   

October 28th, 1926

Don’t Envy a Good |

Appearance !
Come to Shield’s Barber Shop
and enjoy the benefit of expert |
service. Always five of the most |

Dal. Students

Our store is the nearest book store
|

to your college. You will find
here a good line of all kinds of:

Blank Books, Loose Leaf Books,
Pens, Pencils, Blotters, Inks,
Fountain Pens, Eversharp Pencils, Note Paper, Greeting Cards
—in fact everything you will need

proficient barbers procurable on
hand. Our Hair Cutting is sure
to satisfy. Jadies’ Hair Cutting in
all styles; also Curling, Shampooing

 

 

during your college course you 1° A ! £
will find at this store. Seige a at wel
Faulkner Book Store SAM. A. SHIELDS
16 Spring Garden Road Prop. |
41 Sackville St.

Phone S 4786

 

 

 

| CLASS oa
JEWELLERY |

We enjoy the distinction of |
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.
We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students |
and in turn always assure them ||
of our very best service. |
'

R. C. WILCOX, Proprietor

385 Barrington St. |
| HALIFAX - CANADA |||

HENRY BIRKS & SONS |
LIMITED. |
if
|

 

Diamond Merchants HALIFAX
Re re Ni toe. rcs

Bob Johnson’s |), :

TWO BOBBER SHOPS He
FIRST GLASS SERVICE | George F. Power |

]
The Home of the Shingle Cigars Gigarettes, Tobacos |

 

 

|
}

|
MAJESTIC THEATRE | SMOKERS’ REQUISITES — |
BUILDING of every Description.

AND
—Also— |

Cor. GEORGE & BARRINGTON
STREETS

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Don’t Neglect Your Appearance if
Majestic Bldg. |
HALIFAX

HE PRINTING DE- |
PARTMENT of the |
Imperial Publishing Co., |

Limited, is famous for For a Fair Trial

en broke away | Bayne went over for the final try of the | ]/ COR. HOLLIS ano SACKVILLE STS. the quality of its press
bale, then game: receiving a pass from Townsend. HALIFAX, N. S. work, on Booklets, Cata
=

ons har for 9 converts

ge| cr logues, and all kinds of

Job Printing.
Telephone Sackville 1017

    

 

till no man able to put the ball over the}

—e

iG

MADERS

After the Law

so far. They saw a team with a fine}
scrum, a good trio of quarters a magnificent half-line and a great defensive
full-back. They saw a team that in |

High Class Barber

  

    
     
  
   
    
       
     
 

STE “ees eh. C, Er
Dalhousie Defeats
United Services

4 (Continued from Page 1)

The ubiquitous Tupper again gave
the Dal supporters a chance to yell
when he beat a United Service half-liner

to a bounding ball inside the Service

line. People were beginning to ask if

- Tup was a half-liner.

eh The rest of the period was doomed to be
~ gcoreless though by no means unexciting.

“Kelly”? MacLean blocked an attempted

kick with his chin. ‘Bunker.’ caught

some of the mania for speed and surprised everybody. Dobson, Wickwire
and the forwards were raging demons.

Moore touched for safety, the irrepressible

_. Tupper beat everybody to the ball on

the very next play and made another

safety touch. Not to be outdone however

Moore made no less than three safety

- touches on the next three plays. As

“may be seen, the Service men were
pressing strongly, outscoring Dal in

_ dribbling and kicking. Holms’s ad
\ monishments weren't sufficient to cause
‘them to break thru the Dalhousie defence

though they came perilously close at times.

Referee Finch’s whistle for the ending of

} eS the game came with play in mid-field.
“see The final score standing at 14—3 and

_ the stock of tre Dalhousie Tigers standing

at the highest quotation since the season

started. Fans who came expecting to see

a team cast-down, Beets and trodden

upon were agreeably surprised and
disappointed. They saw a team flushed
and rejuvenated with hopes of victory

- and showing its best form of the season
ee ee ee ee

WALSH'S
. DRUG STORE
YOUR DRUGGISTS

_ s SPRING GARDEN RD.
: COR. QUEEN ST.

 

— =

4 i,

we age ual

cal ts
4

running and passing could equal any
team in Eastern Canada.

Mr. Finch, the Referee, must be
congratulated on his fine directing of
play. Very little passed his eagle eye
and he showed a fine regard for the letter
of the rules.

Delthousie — Forwards, MacLean
(Capt), Baird, F. Smith, A. Smith,
Sutherland, Tupper, Baxter. Quarters,

Dobson, Wickwire, Hewat. Halves,
Smith, Langstroth, Murphy, Beardsley.
F. Back, Moore.

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM,

 

—DRUGGISTS— Ltd.
5 STORES

34 Morris St. 174 Spr. Garden Rd.

 

 

 

 

 

 

|| 103 Young St. 139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

| HALIFAX, N.S. |

| :

| Collars!
Our care in smoothing
all the edges of a collar
not only makes it wear
longer but prolongs the
life of the shirt worn
with it. Remember your |
laundry dollar buys more |
conscientious care at this |
laundry.

Halifax Steam Laundry
Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF
Cut Flowers «Potted Plants
We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D. F lorists.
We can wire Flowers to all parts of

the world.
8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Prone Sac. 1934

501 Barrington St.
Halifax, N. S.
Phone SH. 1395

——_——_—-—___

       
        
  

Up-to-date st op with four
ckairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies

a |
: A. PUBLICOVER |
23 Spr'ns Garden Road |

The Greatest Asset of a business 1s
give customers what they want—
when they want tt.

Job and Society Printing
always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

 

 

eee
'Gauvin & Gentzel

Photographers

=

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

 

     
   
  
  
   

The Ross Print Ltd.

95 ARGYLE STREET

Printers - Publishers
: Bookbinders

We specialize in SOCIETY WORK

TICKETS PROGRAMS
and a'l kinds of

COMMERCIAL WORK

Orders delivered same day received.

Phone S. 1958

 

 

Dance

WINNERS From the

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HAL FAX, N. S.
You know the rest

ALPHA BETA of this alphabet,

but won't you learn the music from a Music
Dealer’s Text Book. It starts like this:

$24.

OVERCOAT
or SUIT
TO YOUR MEASURE
Best value in Canada.

ee the many advantages

we offer over sending

away thousands of miles for
your clothes. |

 

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons

Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums

Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

3
We specialize

Un

TUXEDO SUITS

$24.

Clayton & Sons
HALIFAX

We also carry a nice line of Pictures
Harricon Fisher’., Maxfield’s,
Farr'sh’s, etc.

We Invite You to Join Our
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

SOMETHING BIG! EVERYBODY’S GOING!

The Boiler Makers Ball

GIVEN BY

DALHOUSIE ENGINEERS

The Gymnasium
THURSDAY, NOY. 18, 1926
JOE MILLS ORCHESTRA DANCING 8.30

EVERYTHING BIGGER AND BETTER!
GET YOUR TICKETS NOW!

SINGLE TICKETS $1.25 $2.00 PER COUPLE

 

 

 
