    
 
    

Has a Pawers

) EFORE one of the largest student

mass meetings held at Dalhousie in
recent years, President A. S. MacKenzie
uae the. heads of the different college
_ organizations, addressed the new and old
students of the college on Friday evening
be fie the Studley gymnasium. All of the
“a Raa) _ speakers stressed a deeper interest on the
; 7 of the students in the affairs of the
a # eG Ze.
ms i _ President MacKenzie who first address
  

 
 

  

  
 
 

ed the gathering took this occasion to
_ welcome the new students to Dalhousie
__. and during .the course of his splendid
_ address, received the undivided attention
a | Or. the large audience, many of his re
ins marks being greeted with marked appce  lause. The speaker declared at this
=e a, Bena that in his and the opinion of the

nate the “esprit de corps" of Dalhousie
_ was not waning, as clearly evidenced by
the new ruling made whereby in future ail
- competitive college activities are to be
alt with. by a committee composed of
mbers, three of whom are selected
> Senate, three rom the Alumni
from the Stude cil

aay
1
Fe ;

   

  

io
nald Fielding,
Ss Council,

soe and

  

oin ment of this Staite is
ortant ep in. e turthering
ce 5 le and should serve to

; ninat many of the difficulties which |
__ have arisen i ‘the past through the lack
a pee ‘a proper representative executive to

deal with them.

= Following this announcement the Pres. Haack impressed his hearers with the

   
  

   

  

     
 

a four largest in the Dominion and ex_ plained the wonderful possibilities in
store should each individual member
co-operate with the different student
“=: “bodies.

Fred MacInnes, Pres of the Student’s
- Council then outlined the work of the
council and it’s place in the life of the
pfs students as a medium between the
Senate and the student body. :

The next speaker of the evening was the
fluent Herbie, President of the Sodales
Debating Society, and the ideal for all
as, aspirants to the college debating team.
ms _ He urged the new students to attend and

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
       
   
   
 
  

: participate in the forthcoming debates as
og - new material is needed to replace those
Pe who have graduated from the debating
pest ranks since last term.

a: Mr. Davidson was followed by Pres.
A= >= ~ Rex Moore of the D. A. A. C., who in

ro opening stated that the attendance at
oe", the last meeting, of the D. A. A. C., was
ce not altogether conducive to the _ belief
ak that college spirit was running at a very

 
   
 
  
     
    
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
    
   
    
   
 
 
   
     
      
           
 
  
    
   
   

high ebb. Out of a possible 700, only 30
Na + students attended the meeting. He urged
are that the students in future take a deeper
a interest in college activities.
oe oy Andrew Hebband Binney Fairbanks,
cae representing the Dalhousie Gazette and
fee! S. C. A. respectively were the last two
_-—-——s speakers of the evening. Pres. Fairbanks
ee ss in a short well worded address explained

the ideals of the Christ’an Association.
The gathering broke up about ten
thirty following a half hour of music and
dancing.
1 i | PLAN BIG SESSION.
eae ‘HE first meeting of the Engineering
Society was held on Friday October
oth. President Bob Doull welcomed the
freshmen and briefly stated the aims of the
society. With a membership of almost
_ sixty this year, an increase of twenty
__ over last year he hoped that the coming
session was to be one of the biggest and
most successful in the history of the soc____iety, and that the officers would receive
. ful ‘co-operation from every member.
After routine business the Social ComMe mittee ‘was announced from the chair:
“Messrs. Dechman, Travis, and Scott.
Ora “Managers and ‘representatives for the
‘. __various teams and societies were elected
as follows:—Track—G. J. Currie, BasketE Bo _ball—E. D. Brown, Glee Club—J. M.
_ Morton, Gazette—H. H. Bell.
_ It was unanimously decided that the
rs put on the last dance before
Christmas, | providing the application |
eceived at oe consent of the Student's
. e..

18th a BA

=
Snr Tis

  

              

 
    
 
 
    
     
     
    
       
      
     
    
         

majority vote,

       
 
   
   
 
   
 
    
 
  
   
 
     
 
    
   

‘splendid merits of our college, one of the}

     

dite inelected, was: ee t

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 14th, 1926 NO, 2

wey With A Swing! |

 
 

The Semi-Annual

on Tuesday, Oct. 5 at 7 p. m.,
‘president, Mr. Rex Moore in the chair.

Mr. MacInnis, who together with Mr.
Bissett had been delegated to interview
the Senate concerning the playing of
conditioned players on the college teams,
reported that it had been impossible to
confer with that body before the President left for Europe and that nothing
therefore had been settled. Mr. MacInnis, however, outlined a proposed committee to consist of three representatives
from the Senate, three from the Alumni,
and three from the Student Body, which
would have full power to change, by a
any regulation in the
calendar. .

Mr. 1 MacManus recommended
that Dalhousie withdraw from the city
League and send a delegate to Truro

_,| With power to enter the Eastern Inter| collegiate section if possible and if, due

‘to a possible withdrawal of Acadia from

| the Western section, Dalhousie should be

requested to enter that section instead,
he should be empowered to enter the
‘Western section. The meeting passed a

i motion to this effect and Mr. MacManus

was delegated to represent the D. A. A. C.

~The next business was the election of a
managing Committee, which had been
left over from last year. The following
representatives were elected from each
faculty and from the Senate, to act with
the officers of the D. A. A. C. to form the
managing committee:—

Senate —Profs. Angus MacDonald
and Wilson

Dentistry—J. W. Dobson

Law —W. Wickwire

Medicine —E. Doull
Arts —'‘‘Ab”’ Smith

The secretary read a letter from the
various clubs in the city enclosing a
resolution favouring a break with the
M. P. B. A. A. U. of C., and forming a
N.S. branch of the C. A. A. U. After the

reading of the resolution Mr. MacManus |
briefly outlined the grievances against
the M. P. B. A. A. U. and very clearly.
stated the position of Dalhousie if such a
break should occur. He felt sure that
it would not affect the club’s standing in
outside amateur circles in the least and
that there would be the great advantage
of N. S. having her own representative
(Cont nu-d on page 2)

Dents Are Doubtful

N enthusiastic gathering faced

President Barrett when be called the
members of the Dental Society to order
last Saturday, Oct. 9. In the absence of
Henry Godsoe, S. K. Oldfield acted as
Secretary.

The chief item on the program for
discussion was the Dental Dance. Many
of the older members of the Society were
not in favor of holding it this year but
the argument was made that failure to do
so would entail loss of prestige and
practical loss of identity as a factor in
social life of the College. The argument
that the Dance had been a financial loss
last year was countered by one that the
loss had been small and that this year the
Society possessed increased membership
with a doubled Society fee. After
discussions by Messrs. Taylor, Oldfield,
Cragg, Caldbeck, Griffin and practically
every other member of the Society it was
voted to refer the matter to another
meeting to be held next Saturday when a
fuller representation was hoped for.

The question of a Dental Banquet to
be held in the near future next came up.
After some discussion, a committee composed of Messrs. Miller and Eaton was
appointed to see Mr. Hart of the Green
Lantern for tentative terms, said committee to report back to the parent Society
next Saturday.

Although the First Year Dentals were
represented by Messrs. Griffin, Irwin,
Dinsmore and Sproule, none of the preDentals were present.It is hoped to
Ae some of them there for next Satur
ay.

 

D.A. A.C. PLANS TO
DEVELOP ATHLETES

meeting of the
D. A, A. C. was held in the Munro Room
with the

 

NO ANNOUNCEMENT YET.

Contrary to expectations we are
as yet unable to annovnce to
whom will go the honour of re-.|
presenting Dalhousie in the cor
 
 
  
  
  

respondence debate with Alberta.
Each speech, we have decided.

must be less than one thousand
words—something over a column.
The debate is arousing a deal of
interest—at Dalhousie and from
the other Canadian college papers.

DALHOUSIE LOSES
GOOD FIGHT

ROY has been taken and burnt.

Gloom lies everywhere. The _ inviolate sanctuary has been violated by
the cleated footsteps of Red-clad warriors
and the topless towers send out their wail
against Fate on the astonished breezes
which sweep over a desolated area. Even
the invoked aid of Jupiter Pluvius came
too late to save aught but honor.

In such stanzas a modern Homer
lamented the result of Saturday’s Senior
game with the Wanderers on the Dal.
Campus. A score of 8—3 proved that
our boys were by no means outclassed
though outlucked, and those optimists
who predicted and bet that Dal would not

‘score on the reputed Wanderers are today

poorer but wiser.

The game started with Norman Ralston
at the whistle. Trouble started right
away when play shifted immediately to
Dal’s end. A kick momentarily relieved
but 'ess than two minutes after, Ritchie
McCoy went over for a Wanderer try.
Herman's attempt at converting failed.

The play shifted to Wanderers end but
a kick relieved and Hunter went over
for a*try. Although going over at the
extreme outside corner he was scarcely
molested from coming up and planting
the ball squarely between the posts.

(Continued on page 2)

The Seniors Step Out

HE Seniors had their first class

party on Friday night and it was a
real party. In spite of the fact that it
fell on a Friday the night was a gorgeous moonless one. The ‘gang’ (and
they were nearly all there, too!) left for
Bedford about seven-thirty, some by
cars, but the majority by boat. When
they arrived, they found the succulent
corn about ready for attack. Seated
around a huge fire, they vanquished the
enemy with despatch; which victory was
followed by a triumphant onslaught on
sandwiches, cake and coffee.

After a lazy hour with a “uke’’ the
party drifted toward the house and
“indulged in dancing’’ (apologies to local
paper). The Keyes orchestra supplied
the music, the Seniors the fun and
Murray and Co., the work—What more
could be desired? (But don't ask us
what time we got home).

To save the best for the last—Mrs.
Dustan chaperoned the bunch, (Yes,
Harry’s gmother). We are much = indebted to her for favors, past and present,
and also to Mr. Davis for the use of his
launch. May we take this opportunity

to say—Thank you!
c...©.

ae interest is this year
being focused upon ‘the possible
re-establishment of Dalhousie’s Officers
Training Course.

The President of the University, and
other members of the Board of Governors
and of the Senate have expressed their
willingness to support this movement,
but the success or failure of the proposed
undertaking still depends upon whether
or not a sufficient number of students
decide to take the course.

Some will wish to qualify for their
certificates from entirely unselfish motives: that they may best be ready to serve
their country, should a crisis arise.

Others may wish to qualify with a
view to becoming connected with units
of the militia, for social sporting or business reasons.

Engineers of Dalhousie, as part of
their course, are required to qualify for
Commission in the militia. Heretofore

+

 

  

    

bade
ITT

  

11 EUAN

  

 

 

Enthusiasm and Activity Mark Opening Week of Arts and Science

COUNCIL ELECTS 3) Hold Many Meetings
TO COMMITTEE

HE first week of college—after the
return of Arts and Science—was one
of the biggest in years. Practically every
society had a meeting. There were two
football games, much freshy-soph fellowHE Council of the Students held its | ship, and the revival of a good old custom
first meeting of the term on Tues- —the mass meeting. This week there has
day October 5, in the Munro Room. |already been the Council Dance and the
After welcoming the new member who Freshy-Soph debate. Plans are under
took the seat made vacant by the absence | way for the med. law and engineers dances.
of C. Roper, the president in good taste} Enthusiasm has reigned everywhere.
explained to the members and especially |Student executives are working out
those who were taking their seats for the | programs, and are overflowing with
first time, the responsibilities that were|enthusiasm. D. A. A. C. is devoting the
theirs and the duties that each was bound | year to producing athletes— particular ly
to shoulder. In the same strain he|in hockey; the club is going to push interreminded them that before the year was | faculty sport for all it is worth. Its
over many problems and perplexities | president, Rex Moore, is stressing the
would have to be met and urged that | development of ‘‘that spirit of true sportalthough some unpleasant decisions might |smanship which makes the real athlete
have. to be made yet each member should | the real loyalty to one’s Alma Mater’.
cast his vote for the welfare of the Univ-|Sodales plans a big year. Frequent
ersity as a whole and not only for any | meetings and ‘‘sympathetic hearings’
particular body or organization in which | the President promises; there will also be
he or she might be interested. at least four—counting the girls’ debate—
After these introductory remarks of the | inter-university debates. Both branches
president and the ceremonial reading of |of the S. C. M. are already getting to
the minutes were finished, the all import-} work. From the Meds, Dents, Lawyers,
ant matter of the Council dance was }and Engineers some enthusiastic reports.
brought to the fore. Money had to Fe |The Maccabeans are planning an exsaved and one element was in favor of | tensive program of reading, debating, and
dispensing with the dance for this year | friendship. Study has begun already—
or at least to postpone it until after | the libraries are doing a big business.
Christmas when financial conditions The governing bodies of the University
might look more prosperous. Although | are making new ‘provision for the amicable
this proposition met with disfavor, still} settlement of student difficulties’ The
a motion made that ‘the Council dance Council is getting down to business.
be held as usual”’ was voted down. The 1926-27 will surely be a banner
problem was then tackled again and| year,
finally the following motion framed by
an embryé lawyer received approbation,
“That the Council hold the usual dance”.
If the dance was held ‘‘as_ usual’ it
might have cost $180, but the new motion MEETING of the Law Society is
with a subsidiary later one allowed the always an event that is looked
Council an outside figure of $150. with a| forward to with a great deal of pleasure.
special recommendation that they were Especially interesting was the first
to run the dance as economically as} regular meeting, held in the Moot Courtpossible. is The following “‘economical|;ogm on Oct. ist. The minutes were
committee’? was accordingly . selected, |read by J. E. Mitchell, Secty., and
M. Rankin, A. Smith, W. Soper, Avis President P. L. Judge outlined the
Marshall and Alice Atherton. _, business to come before the meeting.
_On recommendation of President Mac-' The Dance Committee was first chosen
Kenzie it was decided that the Council] jn the persons of E. Russell, H. Hudson,
hold a mass meeting of the student body|C¢ fF. MacKenzie, H. Huggins, W. Wickto be addressed by the President of the! wire and W. Richardson. A motion to
University and the various presidents of! mend the constitution of the Law
the organizations in which the student| Gocjety was then introduced Bri ie
automatically became a member on| Atwood whereby the first regular meeting
(Continued on Pag? 2) was to be held in September instead of

October. Motion was passed without
Will Debate McGill

opposition.
Until this point in the meeting everyLe will probably debate thing had been carried on in oS orderly
RM eR oR tas bt Bilas ype eel and masterly fashion. Mr. Atwood howoe é = —s  . lever, then made a motion to reconsider
Ee ee a the motion passed at a special meeting
McGill offering to debate. Although he pam eae nesane Vor Rad ce Daweh
has received no reply, the McGill Daily
of October 4th, after giving general
debating news, says: ‘The sole Can
in the Gym.
Atwood then made a motion that the
adian representative to arrive here will
come from Dalhousie.”

dance be held at the Bagdad. Following
this, the president introduced ‘‘Tookie’’

This information, though not yet confirmed, Dalhousie will receive with

Murphy, ‘‘a man learned in the law’’, as

a special speaker. The subject of Mr.
Murphy’s address was “‘The Bagdad”’

pleasure. Students will remember that

in its only two debates with McGill

Sodales has been victorious. It is very

He pictured to us a dance hall that could
not be surpassed. Time and time again

likely that McGill will accept Dalhousie’s

invitation.

~

Tookie Sways Law

did he emphasize how thoroughly the
whole building had, under his supervision,
been scrubbed, washed and_ polished.
He promised us a floor as smooth as glass,
a hall beautifully decorated, positively

4 ( the Jatest in jazz, and refreshments
. ° daintily served. In fact the whole school
was completely carried away by his

graceful gestures and Meighen- like eloqg
it has been necessary to defer this course
uence and Atwood’s motion was carried

to their term at the Technical College,
and to take a course much less interesting unanimous y* eee ee est ‘adl
to the engineering mind than the proposed he rest of the business was hurriedly
artillery course of the Dalhousie O. T. C. | attended to. Messrs. Russell, MacKenzie
The Department of National Defence, and McQuarrie ae ce) ada “The
recognizing the service rendered by those |Ut!ve committee of the society. ‘
taking O. T. C. courses, will pay a con- Moot Court Committee for the present
c ~ . . . . a | i : ie . J mit * .
siderable sum of money to each student | Year, consisting of Messrs. Williams,
taking the course. Walsh, and Huggins, was chosen; Elliot
There are difficulties of many kinds to Miles) Mae appointed: Convener OF 39
be ile eat fants Malisthinuawel TC committee to arrange for law SHEN
¥ eaters 82 = ~*~"! and after the election of H. Turnbull as
che emai gr one ay fot aa, a committee of one to procure pas for the
Sale ee ee ge _|new men, the highly ‘successful and
See ee ete fete ag. arn | interesting meeting was adjourned,
: : ghee ates ae iE W.D.
spite of all difficulties, however, it is
quite safe to say that with the support of
a reasonable number of our students, a| Fella—‘‘l have been searching for you
corps will be established this year which|three countless aeons. I feel that we
will be well trained, nicely uniformed and | must have known each other since the
a credit to our University. beginning of time.

—H.B. Girl: “Act your age.”

 

 
=

   
 

_ (Founded 1869). ,

~ ANDREW HEBB.

Associate Editors:
AVIS MARSHALL
er FREDA WINFIELD
HERBERT DAVIDSON
BYRON IRWIN
GEORGE MaclI NTOSH

    
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

4 > F Sx

x Sire ee ee Business Manager.
25 4 . J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
fal ite. wre 7 2 348 Robie St.
%§ Phone S. 1935
Brey Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year.
a = * a = PA. : ‘ ; |
- Plenary Powers!

++

;
4
ee |

ae

i a ~

     
 
  
  
 

 

Po of Committee of three students, three alumni, and three

_ ~~ £X members of the senate have plenary powers to regulate
‘University affairs.

as" > This is the greatest advance Dalhousie has made since 1911. In

, bata year the Senate sponsored the formation of the United Students’

       
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
    
    

Bereta sa great changes have taken place at Dalhousie. The University has
_——spuilt the Studley buildings, including Shirreff Hall. It has built new

ries) :

_. medical buildings. The professional schools have received first class

ratings. Large gifts have multiplied educational facilities. The

affiliation with King’s transformed Arts and Science. All these changes

have taken place since 1911. The present advance—the relinquishment
of university regulations to a joint student-senate-alumni com
- mittee—will p-ove, if the students use it, greatest of all.

ee Council, which has become the Council of the Students. Since then

mi ie.
A possibility, for the student, of self-respect is the new institution's
greatest promise. In the past the relation of the student towards the
__ university has been, no matter how loyal, servile. He has had con-_ sciously or unsciously a fear of the university administrators, because
the latter have had in their hands all authority. This would have
Ly. mee en true whether they abused it or whether they did not. The
| . ult has been suppression: students have sat upon their unconfxn al ideas; they have been unable to associate freely with their
3 to be as much on equality with them as their minds
Lit, Take for example the shameless way university
that old gag: “‘Remember that your presence at the
- cost ry year so many hundreds of dollars. It
you t the investment.” No student has ever felt
o say to the university authorities: “‘Remember that society has
usted to you—in addition to millions of dollars—the lives of its
-jn0st promising youth. If you betray the trust, society is undone.”
“The latter reminder is more needed than the former; indeed the former
_is a fiction, the latter facts. That is just an example of the effect of
_ having all authority on one side. The university is a subordinate
. “social contract. Student and teacher have agreed to associate for a
common purpese—individual happiness, whether it take the form of

     
 

 

 
 
 

3s
2

  

er

   
  
   

  
  
 
 
    
    
    
    

  

  

at self-interest or enlightened self-iftterest. Obviously the student is the
ee more important party to the arrangement: the direction of the joint
P+ _ enterprise, with the exception of teaching itself, should have fallen into
et his hands. At least he should have had in it an equal voice. Because
ma the student was a transient and the teacher comparatively permanent,
bn the teacher monopolized the whole control, which, as civilization adE | vances, he is relinquishing. Dalhousie’s latest cession will create in
eee the student a new attitude toward the University.

wa This will be true even if the new committee does not handle

student problems as capably as did the Senate. Its efficiency is a

minor consideration.

We must not stippose that the institution of the.new committee

   

| a, = will of itself transform Dalhousie. Unless we use it, the institution

____will become a dead letter. There will be no excuse for harbouring
Sag a grievance longer than it will take to present it to the new committee.
ae: As the descendants of the men who won Magna Carta and who worked

it for all it was worth and who in this country gained responsible
government, we will use jealously our new right.
Magna Carta grew!

ae
’ ee,
A

_

     

May it grow as

ie

‘The announcement of the student-senate-alumni committee is a
_ welcome assurance of the administration’s seriousness. Of course
when we stop to think we do not doubt that governors, senate and
faculties intend to act in the interests of the students. To understand
the senate’s actions has quite often been impossible for us. The
institution of the new committee will help us to appreciate the senate’s
efforts in our behalf; it will help us to realize that the senate always
has at heart our interests.

In this reform Dalhousie follows in the footsteps of Queens and

 

 

 

 

et: ~ McGill, ‘When there are further advances in education, Dalhousie
will make them. $

ben” | oe

ei

Ls‘ ¥

  
 
    
 

THAT FRESHMAN FEELING.
When everything was new, my dear,
When we were seventeen;
When we came up to Dal, my dear,
And sported ribbons green; ;
When first we saw grey Studley’s halls
Their sombre shapes revealing

  
 
   

| Fader’s Pharmacy, Ltd.
o Shier cE to wortiia sAr wep ;
ly oben BISEENSING........ |f We felt at hand. were triumphs grand,
he likemoucHeEMisTs ps wad as We:had. that Freshman feeling.
“ eg abe. ouivaam "11 | But now though you've been plucked,
4 : ~, . my. dear,
_. And I've been tubbed full often,
And at our genius and our wit
The faculty is scoffin’,
And though the blight of freshman hopes
_ Our buoyant youth is stealing,
c lose

  
 

 
       
     
     
 
  

  

|| ACADIA DRUG STORE
IR. HOLLIS AND SACKVILLE STS.

vee kh Sy
inet

     

4

May God forbid that we shoul
Quite all that Freshman feeling.

|

DAI.HOUSIE GAZETTE

i
i

D. A.A. C. Plans to Develop Athletes
(Continued from Page 1)

on the executive of the C. A. A. U. and
thus being more sure of getting a square
deal from that body. Mr. MacManus
recommended that the D. A. A. C. go on
record as favouring the break and the
meeting showed its assent by electing
Messrs. MacManus and Moore to represent the club at a meeting of the City
Clubs to be held on Friday, Oct. 8 and to
vote in favour of the break.

The resignation of John Dobson as
trackman was accepted. Leigh Miller
being elected to fill his place. This led to
a strong recommendation that more interest be stimulated in this branch of
athletics by entering a Dalhousie team in
various meets such as the D. A. A. A,
fortnightly sports held in Dartmouth.
Although the majority of students in
college do not seem to realize the fact, we
have several runners of exceptional ability,
including Leigh Miller who is one of the
holders of the Maritime record of 10 sec.
flat for the 100 yd. dash. A motion was
passed giving the manager a free hand in
this branch and sanctioning the entry of a
Dal track team in inter-club meets.

Mr. Hewatt reported that the Interfaculty Football League was ready to get
under way as soon as the managers in the
various faculties could get their teams
ready. Mr. MacManus expressed dissatisfaction with the manner in which the
Arts faculty regards Interfaculty games in
general, claiming that from such a large
faculty there should be a much larger
turn-out as it is to this body that Dalhousie must look for new material for
her teams. It was decided to ask Arts
and Science to enter two teams in the
Inter-faculty League this fall, ‘‘Ab”
Smith and Reg Baxter being delegated to
work up the necessary enthusiasm for
this step. The president outlined a plan
for turning in all the team equipment
this fall so that next year it would be
available for equipping the teams in the
proposed inter-class league.

The method of presenting ‘‘D’s’” was
next considered and it was resolved that
men on the first teams be presented with
their ‘‘D’s” at the first meeting of the
D. A. A. C. after the end of their respective seasons.

Dentistry applied for permission to
use any number of second team men on
their interfaculty football team on the
plea of not having a sufficiently large
number to place a team on the field
without these players. On motion of
Mr. Atwood, it was decided to allow any
faculty of less than fifty members to play
as many second team men as they wished
in interfaculty football. Mr. Jubien
asked that this be changed to include all
branches for interfaculty sport but the
meeting was not in favour .

Qn motion of Mr. Atwood, it was
decided to make an attempt to form a
hockey league in the city consisting of
teams from Dalhousie, Tech and Kings
in event of Dal being refused admission
to the Intercollegiate League.

The question of cheer-leaders for the
present football season was brought up
and the following men were appointed
Messrs. M. Fraser, ‘‘Bud’’ Smith, W.
Dennis, R. Hebb.

As the Bermuda rugby team is scheduled to play Dalhousie on Oct. 20 it was
thought fitting to arrange to have the
Freshie-Soph Dance on that date with the
Bermuda players as the guests of the
college and an introduction committee
was formed to consist of the following
members :—
BAA,
Law
Medicine
Dentistry

—Rex Moore
—J. G. Godsoe
—W. Winfield
—Don. Smith

and two or more members from Arts to
be appointed by Mr. Fraser, president of
that faculty, at his discretion.

M.M. RANKIN,
Sect.-Treas. D.A.A.C.

Dalhousie Loses Good Fight
(Continued from page 1)

R. McCoy had an easy chance to convert
and did it.

A further threat was relieved by Moore
with a nice run but the period ended with
the Wanderers still pressing and the
score 8—0. In this period the Wanderers
had it all over the Dal men, who seemed
to be rather slow and out of condition.
The second period had not gone a
minute when spectators noticed a change
in the attitude of the Dal players. All
lassitude had vanished and evidently the
Dal men had warmed up to their work.
Play shifted immediately to the Wanderers end and Langstroth lost a try by
a few inches. The Tiger players were
fighting like tigers and on the very next
play Hewatt went over near the corner.
The attempt at converting failed from a
fairly difficult angle. The Wanderers
came back for a while and play shifted to
Dalhousie’s end until Langstroth, who
played a gredt game, relieved the tension
with a remarkably long and fine run
showing some great straight coming.
He was brought down near the goal line
and a Wanderer kick took the play to
center. Another kick took it to Dal’s
end till Murphy relieved with a fine run.
Moore followed with another splendid

The Continueds

OO a a

ee am are

——————

; —=_=——_—————_————_——_ __.£.£______ LE ——
SSS Son
———

Council Elects Three to Committee
(Continued from page 1)

registration. The speeches were to be
interspersed with music and followed by
a dance. The Council favored this idea
very much and approved Dr. MacKenzie’s
course of action as the informal atmosphere would be especially appreciated by
the new students and would give them,
at least a pleasant opening impression
of their Alma Mater.

The next business ,jthe most important
on the program and probably the most
important that ever affected any Dalhousie Council was an enquiry into and
the election of members for, the ‘‘Committee of Nine’.In the past both
mediate and immediate the relationship
existing between the Senate and the
Council has not been as ccrdial as it
might have been on both sides, chiefly
due to disagreements arising out of
athletics. The senate would challenge
some action of the Council or of the
D. A. A. C. and backed by an array of
rulings which no amount of arguments or persuasions were capable of
hurdling, they usually succeeded in winning their point. Consequently there was
always a heavy atmosphere of dissatisfaction which could not help but be
detrimental to the friendly relations
which should of necessity exist between
the Council and the Senate. To overcome this, on the proposal of President
MacKenzie the ‘‘Committee of Nine”’
was elected. This committee is composed
of three members of the Senate, Prof.
Murray MacNeil, Prof. Wilson and
Dean Read, three Council representatives
F. W. MacInnes and Gerald Gedsoe and
Ronald Hayes and as representatives
from the Alumni, Messrs. Fielding,
Hillis and Mahon.

This committee is to have an alolute
right to deal with any matter affecting the
student body, a power to change existing
regulations or to revise them and a power
to eradicate and formulate; in all, a
plenary power to legislate and judicate.
All unsettled disputes past and present
will be ajudicated upon and if any
innovation is attempted on the part of the
student body they will not go, as formerly
to wrangle with the Senate but their
representatives will bring it direct to
this ‘‘Committee of Nine’’ to receive
their consideration. Here the student
body are assured of a fair treatment of
any claim, as the controlling power is
really in the hands of the Alumni who
act as a sort of ‘“‘candlestick’’ and are
presumably unbiased but withal they are
sympathetic with the student point of
view and if it is at all reasonable and fair
the students may be assured their point
will carry. Technicalities and hard-fact
rules will lose their former power, and
particular cirsumstances will at least
receive a fair consideration. The Committee is to function immediately and all

‘students—especia!ly those who had deal
ings under the ‘“‘old order” will wis) it
success, and the course of a few days
should show its inaugural merits.

After the above matter was dispensed
with the Council approved the awarding
of the Gazette contract and made a
provisional grant to the D. A. A. C. and
granted dates for dances to the Medical
Society and the Sophomores and, after
a few more incidental affairs were disposed of, the meeting adjourned.

—J. G. G.

one and play went to Wanderers end
where it stayed till the whistle blew.
It was clearly Dalhousie’s period and
only fine kicking and bad luck saved
several scores.

Both teams were in a pugnacious mood,
R. MacCoy, the smallest man on the field,
remarkably so.

Wancerer’'s victory was due only to one
thing—-better training. Not until the
second period, when the Dal players got
warmed up, did they show anything.
At that, it is hard to offset some months
work and practice by that of three weeks.
Langstroth, Moore, Murphy, Hewat and
Tupper showed best for Dal with Doc
Smith scintillating as usual and all others
playing well—especially in the second
period when the play warmed up. There's
championship material in the team as
several are likely to find out before the
season's over.

The line up: Dalhousie:—Forwards,
McLean (Capt.), Ernst; Cox, F. Smith,
Baxter, Tupper, A. Smith; Quarters,
Hewat, Wickwire, Dobson; Halves, Murphy, Langstroth, Beardsley, D. Smith;
Fullback, R. Moore.

_ Lineman Lucas for the Wanderers on
Saturday played a splendid game. His
two and three yard gains being an unpleasant feature of the afternoon’s. performance.

* * *

If the leaders of the Sophmore class
had hired YELLOW cabs, following their
defeat at the hands of the Freshmen last
week: the incident would have been

complete.
* * *

The poor Freshmen having to wear
their pins until Xmas, such gruelling
torture, it’s an outrage but on the other
pane try and get them to stop wearing

em.

Ay “2

a
a

a,

= re

»

Ser

October 14th, 1926

‘Dalhousie

Stood there once a mighty fortress
Strong by Nature's peerless art
Strong by pow’r of wall and weapon
Strong by faith of human heart.

At its base encircling water,
Shimmered like a blue-green lake
Zephyr-ro. ked the wavelets bringing,
Silver ripples in their wake.

When in heay’n the sun was shining,
Seemed it like an azure bay.

Peaceful was it then, reflecting
Images that passed away.

When the Storm God, venting anger,
Raised aloft his awful head,

Gone the waste of tranquil water
Flaming billows, raged, instead.

Oft there glided, Indian laden,
Swift canoes into the bay,

But the fortress, grimly loyal
Sent their cringing crew away.

Round the fort there grew a city
Slowly, through the years it grew,
Bringing men from Merrie England
To a country fair as new.

Vessels stately plied the harbour
Craft of white man now was seen;
No canoe of savage Indian

Darted jutting rocks between.

Unmolested lay the city,

As it grew, the useful prime

Of the fort had passed; it mouldered
Relict of a savage time.

But as years rolled by, another,
Stronger, mightier than the last,
Reared its head above the city,
With affection bound it fast.

Strength it had, this second fortress,
Deeply hidden might and pow’r,
Equalled, nay surpassed the former,
Called upon in danger’s hour.

Through the ancient path of learning
Were its age-old doctrines spread,

By the road of education

To enlightenment they led.

Mighty as the ocean tempest,
Tranquil as the rippling bay,
Certain as the tide swift-flooding,
Sweeps it on its wanted way.

This the college of Dalhousie,
Of Dalhousie by the sea
This the fort to learning loyal

Ever shall remembered be.
ME.

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

 

 

Argosy Weekly carries pictures of two
Dalhousians—Ken Palmer of the Law
School, who is at Oxford as New Bruns
wick Rhodes Scholar, and the Rev.
W. C. Ross, Dal ’08. Envious congratulations on his appointment as

principal of Mt. A. Ladies College.
* * &
Alice Atherton is taking honours this
year—in basket-ball, debating, and Eng
lish.

* * *

Daddy Freeman is devoting his time
to research work in the political and
economic sciences.

* kk *&

The freshmen are not electing their
officers until they become acquainted
with each other. A Ronald Hayes idea.
They will also do well if, when they come
to organize, they dispense with a constitution: such a course will save them the
trouble of breaking it every once in a
while.

* * *

No sign of life from the Glee Club!
The fact that its president has not returned should hasten—instead of retard—
the first meeting. - Come on, Executive!
Sound the old B. Y. S. B. (Bring Your

Song Books) call!
* * *

 

One of the best arguments advanced as
yetin favour of debating by mail is the
fact that the unpleasant ordeal of borrowing a ‘‘Pair of Tuxes’’, experienced by
Sterling Brown last year will now be
done away with.

* * *

_ Anyone desiring the location of Maxse
Kelloway, Class '29 during any time that
the Sophs are attempting to haze the
Freshmen, may find him in the Law
Library.

*

* *&

Why was Cheerleader Morton so
reluctant about giving a Pine Hill ye!
at the game on Saturday?

* ke *

With the new ruling set down in many
of the Studley classes this year, some of
our most modest freshmen think thev
are embarking on an easy year as regards
attendance. aD

*

* *

There's no place like a top seat on the
Dalhousie grand stand to get a line on
the 1926-27 college scandal. Even Lucy
Cogswell trotted out a new one on
Saturday.

*

x *

The Gazette will accept contributions
to this column.

 
eo a
=e a Por ee
eis:
=)
ii, oy,
eae ae
ees
= Fis
a, — : ee.
eager
“—s =! =

   
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
     
  
  
 
 
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
    
 
   
  
   
   
    
  
    
   
   
 
  
  
 
    
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  

2 Empty Theatre on SatNight—Strand Patrons
to Stand Strain of the .

of misery!

their paces on the Strand stage.

ence was that it was three years too
y, and the man who let the rotten

- drift stagewards from an upper box

e sentiments of the audience with
ven if his methods met with some
- remarks from the eloquent Mogul
ie Jimmy Evans Company. a
- In the afternoon a parade advertising
show featured the football game at the
derers grounds. The female cosing of the helpless ones was rather
sr, and Charlie Allen with sandwich
ds certainly drew a good crowd to
theatre. Mention must be made of
efforts of that most aesthetic of all
s, Donald McKay, who did his duty
_ nobly with one of the city streetcleaners
_ push carts and shovels,. until the irate
owner of the vehicle made his appearance
ee and took it away from him on Sackville
he afternoon of advertising did the
trick in great shape and the Strand was
: |p eked when the freshmen came on the
- scene after the first show. As indicated
EaGave this year marked the fourth
annual. “entertainment” of this type.
the program may be summarized as

yy ollows —

4
*

| Female attire covered the nakedness
ofthe performers. Fourth repetition.
Lf ee Hg . x
oe) A Freshman walked on the stage in
- a barrel. Fourth repetition.
a ri EA = : 4 ’

(3) The boys gave the classic ‘‘Soothing
syrup, teething rings’’ yell. Fourth
repetition.

ould not be assumed that there

There were. Very distinct and
ones at that. The most
ing innovation by far was the
ce of Ralph Morton on. the

srforming Freshmen, and a general
ent of the aims and hopes of the
ore Class. Then too, there was
reading of a characteristic Listerine
which, it is understood, was heard
y several of the people in the front row.
: is reported, but not confirmed, that
one man was seen laughing at this stage
of the game. At any rate it is certain
that the vast majority of the audience
had their hats and coats on and were
making tracks for the Emergency Exits.
Missiles were cast freely at the ‘‘local
' thespians.’’ First rolls of paper arrived
"on the stage. Later some coins of the
realm greeted the modest females. The
 elimax came when an enthusiast from the
left upper box gently dropped a semi
> digested pear down through the ether.
- The chief ambassador of Mr. James
vans was on the job at once and called
-  _ the troops a number of things, ‘‘gentlemen
snot being among those heard. At the
_ same time a rear attack was staged by a
- particularly ‘broad shouldered member
of the police department and the com_ bination was invincible. Disturbances
disappeared.
s The real criticism of Saturday night’s
- effort is simply this; the Freshmen were
not fresh at all; they were local boys and
_ had much too great a quantity of brass to
____ appear nervous on the stage and so amuse
| the audience. On the other hand they
___ were not specially gifted actors, and the
- flack of rehearsal coupled with the lack
of originality in the program accounted
for the results. It is to be hoped that the
ast public Freshman performance has

_ been seen.

o

rf _
: =

Lara!

The day had been long and hard and
_ Jenkins approached his employer to tell
him he was leaving. ‘‘Why Jenkins,
asked his emplover ‘‘what's the matter?
Are the wages not good enough?

_ “Oh,” said Jenkins, ‘‘the wages are all
ee right! But I’m doing a good horse out
_ fa job here.”

le
=e

* *

pei:  Professor—'‘You seem to understand

allthat. Now let us pass on to immortality, the life of the hereafter.’

Rees

=  Siudent “Not prepared, sir.”’

my

ere Bak
ee
*

A

YELLOW CAB
oa LIMITED ©
| SAC. 4444

1 Halifax’s Only Metered
one _ Service
Aen

Same Rates 2} Hours.

é >

r| 2 ah A agty
rea 3 a Ne ii
Bere She ie oy
7 f aha : 7 *. ea i

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

‘Lord! What a Show! What a
, : What a SophClass’ What a Freshman

1 y night, for the fourth year in
_ the Sophs put a few Freshies

eral concensus of opinion of the

   

original features to the perform- |

© favor the audience with a volous account of the life histories of

 

~ ~

-
KEROSENE AND MOLASSES

place on Thursday evening last.
wondering what in H—

outer air.

townwards.

freshmen.

After indulging in various
including leap-frog, and
races, in which they showed great athletic
ability, they were paraded back to the
Pine Hill gymnasium where their initiation took on a more intimate form.

Certain of the thirty victims who were
treated individually to a series of physical
tortures pretended a faintness on entering
the mysterious chamber but this faintness
was soon dissipated and they were restored to their feet with marked rapidity
after a short rest in the electric chair, in
charge of executioner Buller Ross.

One and all they objected to the
branding process but their pitiful exhortations for mercy were greeted with
cruel and bloodthirsty laughter.

The Pine Hill barbers then administered
free hair cuts for all closely followed by a
cooling shampoo of kerosene and molasses.

Following this tonsorial treatment they
were slid into the beauty parlor where
permanent complexions and other facial
treatments were applied with more or
less artistic skill.

First year Meds of exceeding ability

thereupon diagnosed their internal dis-.

orders and administered the required

‘treatments.

_ The reception was culminated by an

ice water bath and all of the initiated were
received as full fledged residents of Pine
Hill with the exception of one, an un
unvited guest, who in some peculiar
manner found himself subjected to the
aforementioned tortures. Whilean officer
of Class 29 and a member of the students’
council he knows not the why or wherefore
of his misfortune and the perpertrators of
this dire outrage maintain a stoic silence.

A FRIEND OF THE
COLLEGES

The
HKlorning Chronicle

AND

Che Evening Echo

 

 

 

95 ARGYLE STREET

Printers - Publishers
Bookbinders

We specialize in SOCIETY WORK
TICKETS PROGRAMS
and a!l kinds of
COMMERCIAL WORK

Orders delivered same day received:

Phone S. 1958

The Ross Print Ltd.

 

  

|
| Joe Mills Orchestra!

 
  
  
   
  

HE reception annually tendered to
the new residents of Pine Hill took

At seven thirty sharp a motley crew
attired in pajamas of brilliant hue,
they had to do
was herded unceremoniously from within
the sacred halls into the dank and misty

The movement of the verdant mass was
accelerated by the timely application of
barrel staves in the hands of the painfully
efficient police force laboring under the
chieftaincy of Capt. Ed. Brown and with
weeping and wailing and gnashing of
teeth, they wended their way slowly

Arriving in the business section of the
town, they frolicked playfully hither and
thither among the closely congested
traffic, snake dancing with aesthetic grace
and completely captivating, horrifying
and amazing the vast throngs which by
this time had assembled to witness the
juvenile antics of the somniferously clad

games
wheel-barrow

| 501 Barringtou St.

Better Decorations!

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

_ Freshy-Soph Follies

FALL WRANGLING.

Sophomore Motto ‘Business as Usual’.

Freshie Slogan “Like so Much —’’.
"THE first clash of the rival

eerie Thursday evening that ended

September.

in all its bloodlessness that it was positively soulful. A few of the boys- were
having a little meeting at one of the
freshmen's homes. Would they or would
they not attend the proposed Strand
show without armed resistance? The
question was being strenuously debated
when the Sophs appeared outside, bent on
breaking up the meeting. Apparently
the mighty minds of the hazing committee had decided that the Freshies
needed a little assistance to aid their
deliberations. However it happened, the
pondering boys of '30 heard around the
corner the heavy tread of Baxter; the
gnashing teeth of furious Ken Smith; and
the loud and continuous advice of one
Morton. Then the powerful Cadillac of
the powerful Smith brothers appeared in
view and desolation raged in the camps of
the opposition.

The Sophs ‘‘called’’ at the door.
George Mahon at home? Yes, he was.
Could we see him for just one minute?
Our business is important. Sorry, but
George has a bad cold. Slam! Bang!
And that was that! :

Now, brother Baxter’s properties of

being definite and determined are well] |

known. He warned the Freshmen that
he was going to ‘‘stay all night if necessary”’.
guests were preparing to avail themselves
of the kind invitation of their host to
also “‘stay all night.’ Through the thin
window draperies the Freshmen could be
seen inside. They had started a game of
bridge—and were drinking coffee and
making an awful gap in a tray of sandwiches. Then a gramaphone started in
a little jazz to add to the gaiety. Outside

The Greatest Asset of a business is
give customers what they want—
when they want it.

Job and Society Printing

always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

1 Clothes Seen at the Colleges
Suits, Overcoats

and Furnishings |

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W.F. Page |

Cor. George and Barrington Sts. ||

HALIFAX

 

 

 

 

 

[=

:
'
;
'

High Class Barber |
| Up-to-date stop with four
| chars and FIRST CLASS
|

 

BARBERS in attendan<e.

Special Bobbing Parlors

) For Ladie;

|
|
|
|
|

| | |
A. PUBLICOVER |

| 23 Spr ns Garten Road
UR ES ee ———— ee

 

 
 

  

Halifax, N. S.
Phone S. 1395

 
 

Let’s Go! |

kK reshie-Soph Dance

_ GYMNASIUM
Wednesday, October 20

$2.00 Per Couple

Get Your Tickets Now!

 

 

of | hosts
came upon a midnight clear on the

The triumph of the Freshman Class was so complete and satisfying

Was | |

Page Three

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention
ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Limited

the house the Sophs were walking ceaselessly. Now it is highly necessary to say
that the evening of September 30th was
the coldest of the fall to date. There was
a bite suggesting late November. The
Sophs arrived at a quarter to nine. By
a quarter to twelve Reckless Reg, the
desperate captain of a desperate host
served asa rearguard while the last of his
henchmen folded their tents like the
Arabs and vamoosed. Twenty minutes
later a closed car took the visiting Freshmen to their homes for a good night’s
sleep. Veni, Vidi—he was conquered!

| ARTHUR & CONN |

LIMITED
| —Electrical Contractors— ||
Repairs Promptly Executed !
100 ARGYLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S. ||

|

 

CASINO

This THUR.-FRI.-SAT.
Dempsey-=Tunney
Fight Pictures.

KEN MAYNARD in

“The Unknown
Cavalier”

First 3 Days Next Week:

Douglas Fairbanks
IN

“The Black Pirate”’

Entirely in color.

 

Phone Sackville 512

;
'

 

 

 

 

  

 

9
Bob Johnson’s
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FiRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle
MAJESTIC THEATRE

      
 

 

 
    

 

 
   
   
    

| . °
oe | Mayestic
Cor. GEORGE & BARRINGTON |)!
STREETS THE GLOSSOP
 

 

Fine! Meanwhile the Class °30|/

 

Don't Neglect Your Appearance

|

| HARRIS CO.
PRESENT

THUR.-FRI.-SAT., OCT. 14-15-16

“Twelfth Night”

Shakespeare’s Comedy

   

PARAMOUNT
METRO-GOLDWIN
FIRST NATIONAL AND
UNIVERSAL CLASSICS

Imperial Orchestra
Best Music in the City..

All Seats 25c

ENTIRE WEEK OF
OCT. 18

“The Ghost Train”’

That Tremendous International
Success.

 

 

To readers of

|
:
|
|

 

The Dalhousie Gazette

|
| we recommend |

Kinley’s |

| THE REXALL
| DRUG STORE

Bagginess was ne er in style
Our pressing service is worthwhile.
Sponging and pressing restores
the treshness and the stylish lines
of your suit. Phone us to call.
“For Your Appearance’s Sake’

| HUBLEY’S

Needs | || CLEANERS & DYERS |
52 SACKVILLE STREET

 

 

| For everything in

Drug Store

 

Next to Strand Theatre
| Piione S 109

 

 

 

   
 
  
 

dies Gene)
EQUIPMENT

HAT sense ot satisfac
tion you get from using
only the best made football
equipment will help you win
the game. Buy here.

Recreation Headquarters 
PHINNEY’S LTD.

454 BARRINGTON
STREET

~~

"ay, — ine oC

my.
VV A

   
 
   

 

Ft
| _GaiwiRoN
DD ez

  
    
 
  
  
   
   

me |

~

a

ANNUAL LAW DANCE

Auditorium, Tobin Street

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4th
Dancing 8.39 Double Tickets $2.00

Single Tickets may be obtained at the door.

Joe Mills Orchestra
BEST IN TOWN.
Tickets may be obtained from the Committee.

 

:
'
|
|
’

 
 

 
     

   

Nee Te eee ee

rsW

se :

iniors Win

om, 5 < @
ms

    

J a Dalhousie J urior team partly
-atoned for the misfortune suffered

:
=.
7

     
 
     
 
 
  
 
    
 
   
 

t

a 6—O defeat.

tells the tale of the play as the

ere lucky to escape so easily.
vinning, the Juniors geet encour| those gentlemen who were wont
vail the fact that the development
players in Dalhousie was a lost art,

t who now readily admitted that in
some respects the Juniors even exceeded
the Seniors. At any rate, in the ranks of
the Juniors are some players who even
now could step in and ho d up their end

in Senior company—notably A. A.
McDonald, the fiery-headed quarter and

Jones, the full back as well as Bayner and

MacLeod of the half line and one or two

_ oftheforwards. _ ’

Play started with the Wanderers
‘numbering only fourteen men, tho the fifteenth turned up in due time. Dal

started off with a swoop and only a

_ fumble five yards out prevented a Dal

score in the first two minutes. However,

‘this was only a momentary setback as

A. A. McDonald went over for a try in

.\" -. therfirst five minutes. The attempt at

converting failed from a moderately

difficult angle. Immediately, play shifted
to the Dalhousie end but a free kick
relieved the situation and play sbifted.to
center and then seesawed back and forth.

A dispute that threatened to assume
serious proportions arose when a Wan
 derer player kicked a rolling ball over the

Dalhousie goal post. Jim MacDonald,

who throughout refereed a most fair,

--—~—s impartial and splendid game, refused

and rightly—to allow a_ drop kick.

Play shifted to Wanderers end and then

‘to Dal’s, the whistle ending the period
with the Wanderers pressing. Just a few
minutes before the whistle a penalty

— —~——s«&ick «against the Wanderers on the

+ ~~ ‘fatter's 25 yard line failed, the ball

cee. ~ striking one of the upright’s and bounding

off on the wrong side. And here is the

Second Team’s only weakness—a kicker

who can do some converting and placeThe second period opened with Dal
_- housie pressing fiercely and the Wan
 derers fullback was compelled to touch
yx safety. Dal however would not be

and immediately after H. Godsoe,
ad been playing a splendid game
went over for Dal’s second

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
 
  
  
 
    
  

eod made some splendid
le le Aa Le 3
Dalhousie usually

er scoring took
field with a 6—0

Da ciae— onwatde: D. MeMillan,
_S. McMillan, Delaney, Campbell,
-Godsoe, G. Godsoe, Mitchell; Quarters,
nnings, Sutherland, A. A. McDonald,
Halnes, Townsend, Bayne, McLeod,
McLellan; Fullback, Jones.

M

--———,s MACCABEANS MAKE MERRY.

: "THE Maccabeans have started their
_* activities with a record membership. ‘Mr. Charles Gavsie the retiring

_ president cordially welcomed the Freshb“men members and in a well-rounded talk
designated the proper program for the
club to follow during the year.

The election of officers resulted as
follows:

Mr. Leonard Miller-......-. President.

Miss J. S. Dresner, B.A. Vice-Pres.

nied Bem. Gama Sec. Treas.

aw _ A permanent committee consisting of

: ye the officers and Miss S. M. Volinsky and

een 3 Mr. C. M. Rosenblum was also established,

After a fitting installation of officers.

ar an animated discussion of the club’s pro
Bet ec? gram took place. The Freshmen display
: ed keen interest.

It was decided that the Seniors and
Juniors provide a program for next meeting; this is to be followed by a ‘‘Sophomore
Night’; and for the third meeting by a
“Freshmen Night.”

Fy _ The meeting was marked by an optim
ism and good humoured wit that was out

~~ done in pleasantness—and that of an
Pe — other kind—by the splendid refreshments
served by Mrs. Byalin at whose home the

meeting was held.

Fi deez If one may risk prophecy—and. the
my proceedings at the first meeting warrant

such prophecy—theng§ the Maccabeans
are assured of a seasonfmarked by Debates, Readings and papers of a very high
standard. B. R.G.

; oe YOUR DRUGGISTS
ss. SPRING GARDEN RD.
Reba eh COR. QUEEN ST.

HEJPRINTING DE-}

PARTMENT ofjthe |
Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, is famous for

|| the quality of its press

_ || work, on Booklets, Cata
|| logues, and all kinds of

Printing.

  

 

 

| * e Job
_ || Telephone Sackville 1017

ma, ug?

 

   
  
   

he Seniors, by handing the Junior
| a The Tecate by no d

_ the attempt to convert}

er their belts. = |

 

Brilliant Freshettes Entertained!

"THE first meeting of Delta Gamma

took place at Shirreff Hall on Saturday night. The preliminaries were
Jisposed of as quickly as possible in order
that the guests of honour might be suitably entertained. The following  rep
resentatives for the executive were
elected:
Class ’28—Keltie Holman
Marion Wood

~ Class '29—Jessie Gladwin
: Marjorie MacLagan

Far be it from us to divulge the deep,
dark secrets of Delta Gamma, but the
world at large may rest assured that the
Freshettes were ‘‘warmly’’ welcomed by
their immediate superiors! Miss Gladwin
did the honours with what a well-known
publication would term ‘‘inimitable grace’.

The Freshettes displayed a- taste in
dress that was both original and distinctive. Such ‘‘combinations’’ have not even
been seen by the more sophisticated
Seniors. The practice of tattooing was
also much in vogue. The flappers of
Class '30 are apparently ultra-modern.
The Sophomores, possibly feeling that
such aspirations require toning down,
presented each Freshette with a sample of
modest and becoming head gear. (See
Studley Campus!)

The new class is not at-all a backward
one, nor does it lack gratitude. Each
member did her best to entertain her
hostesses in response to their kindness.
But there seems to be little danger of the
Seniors becoming annoyed by the incessant warblings of the ‘‘younger generation.’’ They don’t know any popular
songs! After last night’s performance
Dal should rise at least ten points in the
estimation of the ‘‘Anti-Jazzers.”

The interpretative dancing was much
better — particularly the ‘‘Dance of
Spring.”” It was a delightfully accurate
and sympathetic interpretation of a
Nova Scotian spring.

The Freshettes don't know each other
yet and it was more or less a case of
“the blind feeding the blind.’’ Still, it
was a very jolly, sociable evening, taking
it all in all, and after the second round of
refreshments the party {broke up the
newcomers seeming quite happy
at least they went home ‘‘with bells on”!
* F.W

 

Modern Education

“Jimmie, can you tell me what three

and two make?”

“A tight corner for the pitcher, ma’am
; ‘ —I ife.

1»?
*

Living
In Halifax

While living in Halifax
we want you to feel that
The Green Lantern was
designed for your pleasure and comfort.

Lunches, Ices, Drinks

The Green Lantern

    

oo

Dal. Students |

Our store is the nearest book store
to your college. You will find

Blank Books, Loo-e Leaf Books,
Fens, Pencils, Blotters, Inks,
Fountain Pens, Eversharp Pencils, Note Paper, Greet'ng Cars
—in fact everything you will need
during your college course you
will find at this store.

Faulkner Book Store
16 Spring Garden Road

here a good line of all kinds of:

 

 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
       

CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We*appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students |
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED. |
Diamond Merchants HALIFAX |

 

 

WINNERS From the

For 60 years’ the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

_ Hardware and/Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Too Much Money on
Athletics

At the first meeting of the Sodales,
last night in the Munro Room, the freshmen and sophomores again tried strengt
on the subject of athletic finances. The
resolution was: Resolved that too large
a proportion of the student funds of
Dalhousie is spent on athletics. The
judges were K. MacLellan, Rod MacLeod
and Sid Gilchrist. An account of the
debate and of the general meeting will
appear later.

Majestic Notes

Tonight and for the rest of the week
the Glossiop-Harris Company will present
“Twelfth Night’. There should be no
need to recommend the Glossiop-Harris
Company as Shakespearian players to
Dalhousie students, particularly to those
students who had the pleasure of seeing
some of their plays last year. To Dalhousie students it should suffice to say
that it is Sheakespeare's ‘‘Twelfth Night”,
If you miss seeing it you will have lost
an opportunity that perhaps you will
never,have again in your life.

For the week of October 17th Halifax
and Dalhousie will have the privilege

of being able to see one of the latest and |

most popular plays that has ever taken
London and New York by storm. | For
this especial privilege we are indebted to
Mr. Gordon Blyth who is the general
manager and producer of the Glossiop
 

Or |

George F. Power |
| Cigars Gigarettes, Tobacos

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
of every Description.

—Also—

) Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

 

 

‘Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX as

N. s. |
;

 

 

  

Collars!

Our care in smoothing
all the edges of a collar
not only makes it wear
longer but prolongs the
life of the shirt worn
with it. Remember your
laundry dollar buys more
conscientious care at this
laundry.

Halifax Steam Laundry
81-84 WEST STREET

    
       
   
   
   
   
   
         

Going down to

MADERS

to-night?

See you
down there

Sure!

 

———"}
|

Catia & Gentzel

 

Whotographers |

:

} i]

; 1}

: a |
1]

; }

| 18 Spring Garden Road
| Phone Sac. 692 |

 

 

You know the rest

ALPHA BET of this alphabet,

but won’t you learn the music from a Music
Dealer’s Text Book. It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons

Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums

Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

We also carry a nice line of Pictures
Harri.on Fisher’, Maxfield’s,
Parrish’s, etc.

We Invite You to Join Our
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

Casino Notes

Douglas Fairbanks is again the cinema
pioneer. In this instance he is exploring
the realm of color photography, and it is
said that ‘‘The Plack Pirate,’’ the screen
production he is now releasing is easily
another outstanding novelty.

It was made after five months of
preliminary scientific research. In addition to its actual color, it glows with the
color of romance and adventure, of
heaving ships and rolling seas, pieces-ofeight and plank-walking pirates. It will
quicken the pulse of everyone who has
read and dreamed of the days of piracy.
The Technicolor process by which this
film is being made stands as another
triumph for present day ingenuity.
“The Black Pirate’? comes to the Casino
theatre on Monday of next week for a
3 days run.

 

Harris company and who _ personally
arranged for the playing of ‘“The Ghost
Train” in Halifax next week. Incidentally in being given the opportunity
of seeing ‘‘The Ghost Train’’ next week
you are having a privilege that will not
be available in most of the larger cities on
the Continent for some time to come.

 
 

WwW RCE
\) Q
& , A, RS %
= sett WELL Ser m
gi se, Qe ae
% Foe e
e1D6. WY “AN pro

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D. Florists.
We can wire Flowers to all parts of
the world.

THe ROSERY HOLES DARNED

8 BLOWERS ST.

Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

eee OOOO es

| Don’t Envy a Good

|
Appearance! |
Come to Shield’s Barber Shop |

and enjoy the benefit of expert
service. Always five of the most
proficient barbers procurable on
hand. Our Hair Cutting is sure
to satisfy. Jadies’ Hair Cuiting in
| all styles; also Curling, Shampooing
| and Massaging. One trial will
| convince. |
| SAM. A. SHIELDS |
| Prop.
| 41 Sackville St. |

 

| Phone S 4786

For
Pressing
Dry
Cleaning |
Repairs |
Etc.

Phone
Sac. 204

 

Will
call and
deliver

 

Sar x7O4HneP HC

146 Hollis St.

Upstairs

 

Octoker 14th, 1926

 

   
    
     
           
          

Tuxedos oi
Quality —
Custom Made

$45.00

Fall and Winter
Coats

526.00, $33.00

and up.

Custom made goods keep their
appearance and give longer service.
We guarantee satisfaction.

Scotia Tailors Ltd.

479 Barrington St.

(Opp. St. Paul’s Ch.)

 

 

| MACLEOD, BALCOM, |
| —DRUGGISTS— Ltd. ||
5 STORES

34 Morris St. 174 Spr. Garden Ri.
103 Youngs St. 139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

HALIFAX, N.S. li

 

 

BUTTONS ON

  

| RENTS MENDED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pre3sing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickits
for $2.00.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N.S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

Barrington St.,
Sack. 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

$24.

OVERCOAT
or SUIT

TO YOUR MEASURE

Best value in Canada.
ee the many advantages |
we offer over sending
away thousands of miles for
your clothes. s
We specialize
in

TUXEDO SUITS
p24, |

Clayton & Sons
HALIFAX

|
|
|

 

 

  
 

ay’

Proqrietor
R. C. WILCOX

| HALIFAX

385 Barrington St.

  
  
  
      

THE HOME OF

Mrs. Austin’s
Home-made
Candies

CANADA

 
