|
i

—
——
=
od
—
anced
———
een
ae
——
a

 

f <>

a ee

C ae BY virtue of their decisive 35-20
i win over the ‘‘Y” hoopsters on
Bry es, Saturday night the Dal Senior Basket
nm ball squad are now tied for first place

a in the city league and general favorites

i eae for this year's title.

Ree The Dalhousie squad certainly struck
re their stride in last week’s game and had

fee, complete control of the ball in both

periods. Much credit for the team’s
oda sok goes to Captain George
angstroth who played brilliant ball,
tossing in baskets from all parts of the
floor and netting nineteen points of the
total 35,

Po

The close checking of the Dalhousie
of the evening. The “Y” forwards
ay found it impossible to work in any comee _ shots were attempted with little success.
ee ' Cox didn’t seem to be in his usual form
_ whose short, swift passing and back
checking contributed a great deal to the
eae Brown playing his usual aggressive
game, broke up many attempted plays
nal is _ bound shots. He was relieved in the
: second stanza by Hughie Ross, who
Saturday night. ae
_ Brown started the ball rolling after one
--and was followed shortly after by Langstroth who dropped in two pretty field
; ; eal d
S _ At this juncture the ‘‘Y’’ seemed to
even for the rest of the period, Dal
netting thirteen points and the “‘Y”’ ten.
play zigzaged back and forth for about
five minutes, neither team being able
a with a foul shot and Langstroth and Ed
Sd Brown each dropped in a close in basket.

guards was also a predominating feature

a *bination under the basket and long

—-—— and ~was relieved by George MacLeod,
a final count.

ta on the “Y” and scored several nice re
‘made his debut in Senior Company on

minute of play when he pocketed a foul

baskets from the side, making the count

- find themselves and play was about

In the opening of the second. half

a to tally. Ab Smith opened hostilities

rea This rally seemed to dampen the

 

College Women
Disagree On

Big Problem

WO young. women, Anne Tem
ple and Regina Malone, debate
in the Forum on the question, ‘Has
Pa Youth Deteriorated?”’ Both are college
graduates, and neither is more than
a 22 years of age, so that it may be presumed
that they know whereof they speak.
ha Anne Temple's answer to the question
ei at debate is ‘‘Yes,’’ and Regina Malone’s
yee is “No.” Both agree, however, that the
eh qounget generation is in revolt and that it
ai] ; as cast aside the ideals and standards
ey: of the preceding generation. And both

; discuss, with the frankness that is charoe acteristic of the youth of today, matters
; that their mothers would have blushed
to hear mentioned. As for the con
clusions, Anne Temple says:

We young people are like a herd of
calves enclosed in a wide pasture. Leaderless we rush, in an impetuous, juvenile
stampede, toward the furthest pasture
gates, not knowing what lies beyond—
more pasture lands or chasms. We
have hurled aside all conventions. Accept
: oe ; (Continued on Page 3)

 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
    
    
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
    

 

Arts vs_ Eats

Delta Gamma will hold a
meeting on Saturday, Feb. 12
at Halifax Ladies College. The
ee nme will consist of a de
‘bate on the subject: Resolved
that a two year Household Science course is of more benefit
: to a girl than a four years Arts
course. The debaters for Dal_ _housie will be Miss Margaret
«Ells, Miss Jessie Gladwin and

"Miss Sheila Macdonald.

J i 4 a os He
J aS ee ~~
ae . 4 4 “4 sr 7.4

henge 3,

Dalhousie Basketeers Tie

__-With Y For First Place

iF
/

ma)

   

Sikes LANGSTROTH LEADS TEAM TO VICTORY OVER
Bs Y AND GIVES DAL CHANCE TO WIN LEAGUE

 

ardent hopes of the Y. M. C. A. five and
their efforts for the remainder of the
period were confined mostly to long
shots.

Brickey Stevenson of Sydney handled
the game.

Line up—

Dalhousie — Forwards, Langstroth,
MacLeod, Cox, Centers, Brown, Ross,
Guards, Smith and Moore.

Is Democracy

A Failure >?

RESOLVED that Democracy is a
Failure, is the subject to be debated at
Sodales on Wednesday Feb. 16. The
debaters will be affirmative: Miss Anna
Wilson and Mr. E. B. Fairbanks; negative: Miss Florence Crage and Mr.

| Jack Atwood. The subject is a vital one

in these days of shifting standards and
changing ideas. The great political battles of the past century were fought in
the name of Democracy. Some say now,
however, that democracy is a false idol
and reaction is setting in. They point
to the appearance and popularity of
such figures as Mussolini. The above
mentioned speakers can be relied upon to
have some interesting comments on these
speculations.

Miss Anna Wilson is a senior in Arts
and a native of Newfoundland. - Her
major interest is in scientific subjects
in which she has attained considerable
distinction.

Mr. Binney Fairbanks is President of
the S. C. A. and Sec. Treas. of Sodales.
He is a man of ideas and can be relied
upon to tackle a subject in a logical
manner and from an original point of
view.

Miss Florence Crage is a first year
student from Perth N. B. She has
brought with her to Dalhousie some
reputation as a speaker for she was
Valedictorian of her class at school.

Mr. Atwood needs no introduction.
He is an old familiar land mark. This
year he has shown us that he can add
financial ability to his other talents
for he has had great success as Business
Manager of the Gazette. He is of
Irish descent and possesses to an exaggerated degree those admirable traits
for which his people are noted.

Basket Ball

Team Wins

On Wed. Feb. 2nd, Dal girls defeated
the United Memorials. It was a very
mediocre game in which one team far
outclassed the other. Dal centres kept
the ball well in the hands of their forwards
who managed to make a count about
every time the ball came their way—
although it was often a case of “‘if at
first you don’t succeed.’’ Miss Wood,
for Dalhousie, played a good game at
guard, blocking many nice passes. The
Dal ‘cheering section was anything but
large—we need support, remember that,
for the game next Monday night at the
West End Baptist Hall and for the two
intercollegiate games.

*

—_—--——
Arts B Lead League

Arts B won from the Legalites in
Saturday afternoon's game at the Studley Gym and are now league leaders
with four wins to their credit. Law and
Dentistry are tied for second place.

Medicine, Dentistry and Arts A won
over Commerce, Pine Hill and Engineers
respectively in closely contested games.

Blenkinsop, playing for Arts A was
high scorer for the afternoon with fourteen
points,

 

 

Miss Eveleen Burns debates this year in
Intercollegiate circles for the second
time.

Commerce Holds
Live Meeting

ARITIME Provinces Trade Rel
ations was the subject of an interesting paper read by Robt. Slayter in
the Munro Room on Thursday evening
at the first of a series of meetings which
the Commerce Society are holding for the
purpose of considering, extra mures,
the present day economic — problems,
with particular reference to the Maritime Provinces.

Mr. Slayter’s paper brought forth
considerable discussion which was characterized by an earnest desire to disown
the causes and cures for the Maritimes’
economic ills and tempered by a good
working knowledge of the fundamental
economic principles: involved.

Mr. Herbert Morton then read a
scholarly and highly instructive paper on
the subject of Instalment Selling. Reference was made to the recent great
growth of instalment selling of motor
cars, until today 83% of our cars are
sold on the instalment plan. Mr. Morton
went deeply into his subject, discussing
the effects of this type of selling upon the
individuals involved, upon general credit
and cyclic trends of business.

The Society is certainly to be commended in its unique action of doing some really
serious work which is entirely independent
of the class-room work and not in any
way motivated by a desire to pass certain
examinations.

 

 

—H.B.

 

New Debater |

Miss Margaret Ells is @ newcomer in
Intercollegiate debating. Dal expects
great things from her.

fg

irre
O
rs

MOT
MUI

NO. 14

 

 

House, Ross and Guss Debate

For Dal Against St. F.X.

SERIES OF TRIALS RESULT IN ABLE TEAM TO DISCUSS
LIQUOR QUESTION ON FEB. 25th AT ANTIGONISH

Emerging from probably the most
thorough debating trials that Dalhousie
has ever held, Messrs. House, Guss and
Ross will represent the college against
St. F. X. at Antigonish on Feb. 25.
The resolution is: ‘That a system of
government control of liquor, modelled
on that of Quebec would be in the best
interests of Nova Scotia.’’ Mr. Ernest
House will lead the team.

Both Mr. Guss and Mr. House make
the team for the first time. Ernest
House comes: from the home of a clergyman, now at Bay Roberts, Newfoundland.
He attended the Methodist School,
St. John’s, and later taught elsewhere in
Newfoundland. He has put
at Albert College, Saskatchewan.

Sodales Decides

For Initiation

(By E. M.-H.)

 

O* Wednesday evening Sodales add
ed another to its list of successful
and entertaining debates. Before a comparatively large and thoroughly interested audience two representatives of the
Freshman class threw down the gage to
picked opponents from the Sophomores on
the resolution: that the initiation of
freshmen should be abolished.

The debate was opened by Mr. Stewart
Allen, President of the Freshman Class.
Mr. Allen said it was now the opinion of
the faculty and the more _ intelligent
students that initiation was better dispensed with. Initiation he affirmed did
not fulfil its professed purpose, and it
was no real help to the newly entering
student. The straw hats of last fall were
productive rather of heat than of benefit
to the freshmen. The fact that the rest
of the University did not then rally to
the assistance of the hard pressed sophomores indicated, he said, their feelings
on the matter. Heconcluded by pointing
out several wrongs and abuses of initiation such as neglected studies, broken
arms, and branded foreheads. This sanction of long usage was not be declared
sufficient argument for continuance.

Miss Elizabeth Colpits opened for the
Negative. Her manner of speaking is
quiet but persuasive. College she argued
is a distinctive institution and should
have distinctive rites. Initiation creates
esprit de corps. It brings together the
members of the entering class and also

(Continued on Page 3)

Jazz Fan Asks
Why We Dance

A’

spread of all popular amusements
of the present day, namely, dancing, I
am beginning to wonder just where all
the fun comes in. There is, of course,
some pleasure derived from listening to
the blare of the saxophones, the wail of
the violins and the rubbering thud of the
drums, doubtless due to some faint
remembrances of the primitive music
of our hairy forefathers. But apart
from that, where is the pleasure to be
gained from the bumps, bad _ floors,
stuffy atmosphere and general air of
inaneness of our modern dances.

Look at the types on the floor. One
couple passes us, dancing perfectly and
passionlessly from pure habit, with their
bodies moving like machines. Their
faces are as wooden as any gambler’s
when he is playing a delicate hand‘in a
poker game and they rarely, if ever,
speak. Then their opposite comes lumbering down the floor, clearing a mighty
swath before them; four hundred pounds
of flesh and bone moving as remorselessly
forward as the proverbial juggernaut
and as dangerous to resist. Swooping
around them like a pair of stormy petrels

(Continued on page 3)

a participant in the most wide
in a year
Also

 
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
   

a couple of years on the mission field.
Altogether House is a man of the world
and brings to the Dalhousie debating
team no little experience. Ben Guss
is a product of Sodales. No one probably
has shown a greater interest or debated
more frequently this year at Sodales
than he. Mr. Guss is a well known
college figure and a prominent member
of Class '28. He is the Sec.-treas. of the
Maccabean Society. His speaking is
conversational, witty and at times approaches the brilliant. Let St. F. X.
beware. Walter Ross needs no_ in
troduction. He distinguished himself and
his class by making the team in his
freshman year. He combines to an

unusual degree, scholarship and_ sociability. He is a member of the Council
who expresses opinions and is prominent
In Many activities.

This will be one of the best intercollegiate teams Dalhousie has ever had.
The three men chosen had to prove their
metal on three occasions. The first
trials, which were eliminative, were
before a student committee. The second
and third hearings were before the
regular Intercollegiate Committee. Though some of the candidates did not
approve of the extra trials the majority
opinion was that they were a sound
institution; and that if there had been
only one set of trials Sodales would have
produced nowhere near so good a team,

In addition the debaters have become
acquainted with every phase of the
question.

Dalhousie needs a good team. St.

(Continued on page 3)

Writer Agrees

Milton Visited

Mermaid Tavern

 

Sir:—This week’s Gazette announces
that a prize for verse has been won by
M. A. B. ‘While delighted to find that
my little rhyme possessed some merit,
may I say that | do not think myself
eligible for any prizes and that I was not
competing when I sent in the poem.
This year, though a registered student
at Dal, (sub rosa I’ve already lost my
attendance percentage) I read the Gazette
as a graduate of '26 and as a winner of a
literary ‘‘D", and it was only because I
was asked not to forget that material
with which to fill columns is often short,
and because I remember the occasional
frenzied writing at 2 a. m. when I was
on the Gazette staff last session, that I
sent in a contribution. And so Mr.
Editor, will you please ask the judges to
award the prize for verse to the student
next on the December-January list.

(Continued on page 3)

What's Doing

Today—Dents vs. Commerce (H)
Feb. 11 St. Mary’s vs Dal (Sr. H)
12 Mt. A. vs Dal (Girls’ B)
at Sackville.
Dal vs St. George’s (Sr B)
Law vs Med (H)
Commerce ys Arts B (B)
Law vs Pine Hill (B)
Arts A vs Dent (B)
Med vs Engineers (B)
Delta Gamma
Male Choir
14 Dal vs Go-getters (Girls’ B)
_ (West End Baptist Hall, 7 p.m.)

15 Med Banquet
Dent vs Arts (H)
16 Sodales
17 Dent vs Commerce (H)
18 Dr. McMechan’s Lecture
Junior—Senior Dance
Dal vs Acadia at Hfx 7.30
(Girls’ B)
Dal vs Tech (Sr. H)
Dalvs Y. M. C. A. (Inter B)
23 Glee Club

MP cae oe ee eee a ee Oe
= ‘Sah telen ar

i” ie

alhousie Gazette

a a iz Yas _ (Founded 1869). .
Peete or) 1 Ree.
ANDREW HEBB,
Assistant Editor:
JAMES A. FRASER
Gazette D's;
MARY A. BERESFORD
J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
F. A. CRICHLOW
SIDNEY GILCHRIST

BYRON IRWIN
“ARTHUR L. MURPHY

_ GEORGE NICHOLS
3 Business Manager.
_Jj. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
348 Robie St.
Phone S. 1935

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year.

a ae if ot oe ee eo te
ss Setting The Students Afire
ERE are at Dalhousie too few (
ff sare over, madly. to the Library, bursting with a desire for
_ i ~—s knowledge. The reason is that there are too few professors
of the same sort. Whether it is because they are overworked, or
- because they have not it in them, or because they think it not wanted,
professors seldom hand out inspiration. Students are dependent on
books and outside men. Surely the professors believe in. inspiration?
~ It seems sometimes as though they disapproved—that they thought
inspiration a harmful intoxicant. ‘The lifeless and matter-of-fact way
in which some discuss the subject to whose study they are devoting
_ their lives, is enough to turn a student away forever.
~~“ Professors should realize that they have before them minds
- hungering for stimulating suggestions. Let each professor attempt to
_ win his students to a love of his own subjects; let professor compete
_ with professor in revealing attractions; let each indicate those beauties
_ by which he himself-was won. Then, as never before, will this college
turn out great men—scholars, writers, statesmen. Or is the _ professor too tired for any exertion of that sort? We think it is only that
he does not realize that the student mind is tinder, eager to be kindled
- —that a little feeling and a little enthusiasm will set the student afire.

_

students who run, when classes

ae coe
Apa

mon 2: Politics
YTD tv |
[NV time of the year is approaching when-the students will be

e
e

weeks Council nomination day will be over. That

_ choosing executives for next year—the political season is at
, It is difficult to estimate the importance of a good Council.
Council is as important as its members make it; a weak Council
nnot do nearly so much harm as a good Council can do good. Let
__us elect students who will make the Council a force in the University.
‘Tt is, of course, a matter of choosing—-we have all kinds of
material, all types of students, at hand. Let every student ask him_ self: What do I think a Council member should be? Should he have
executive ability? Should he be able to talk? Should he have
initiative? Experience? Personality? Should he be radical? Should
he be conservative? Should he think? Which of these qualities
are most important? There is a second question, almost included
im the first: What views must a candidate hold—to get my support?
Are there any Council questions on which I have a definite opinion?
For example, that the Council does not give sufficient help to athletics?
When each has decided—if he can—what sort of student he wants
on the Council he will cast his eyes about and find his men, comparatively easy. This procedure is not for the lazy student, it is for

the student who thinks.

The student who thinks will contribute to the successes of the
coming year. This year promises to be the biggest in the history
of Dalhousie. Let us, by choosing well our student officers, lay the
way for a bigger, better year in 1927-28.

A Suggestion

“¥TE DISCUSSED some time ago the Council constitution.
W/W We may have been wrong then in some of our medicines,
_-  ** ~+¥ as we were in some of our premises. Whether wrong or not,
the fact remains that the constitution is far from perfect. The present
Council is seeking the trouble in the representation. Though it is
4 ae unlikely that the Council is too bulky, there is more wrong than
nat. =.»
____ Students should attack a problem like this in student fashion.
Let the Council appoint carefully a committee, willing to undertake
a hard job, which will study and attempt to improve the constitution.
Such a committee might well look at other constitutions: Dalhousie
is not a pioneer in student government.
others have learned? Such a committee should hear any students
who, though they might not be members of the Council, have sug_ gestions to offer.
A constitution is never perfect. Will Dalhousie be satisfied?
_ Here is a reasonable suggestion—the appointment of a capable committee to study our own and other constitutions, and either to revise
the old constitution or to draw up a new one. Which will it be?

aN Bet : ;
About Frats

RA -ERNITIES are a_ recent development at Dalhousie.
There are now three—alaw frat, a med frat, a non-professional
frat—having a total membership of probably of well less than

ndred. There are no sororities. Surprisingly there has been
seussion of the new  institution—either in the Council,
debating society. 3
because fraternities are so questionable. In
been h cause of many a quarrel. Wasn’t
oar Nee Gn “2

Why should we ignore what

the

Should Girls Be ©
Abolished

I CAME“ to college” with the rather
unusual idea, (I am not an ordinary
young man,) that the library is a place
where you study and read books. I
have, of course, changed my mind since
coming to Dalhousie. But still, working
on the assumption that there might
possibly be some truth in my first belief,
the other day I took a book from the
library shelf, and in spite of the chattering
coming from the other side of the desk,
I attempted to wade through ‘‘Nocale’s
Conception of the Orthaphonic and
Radiolarian Ooze.’ The voices on the
other side, coming as far as I could see
from two pairs of champagne colored
hose and dainty black shoes, grew louder
and louder but I read on bravely until I
finished the book.

The next day in class I was asked by
the Prof. to explain what I had read in
“Nocali’s Conception of the Orthaphonic
and Radiolarian Ooze.'’ 1 was, perhaps,
the only one in the class who had read the
book, and of course, all eyes were turned
on me. I staggered to my feet. I was
astonished at my ready flow of words—
they came to me quick as a flash—I had
not forgotten one single thought or
sentence.

‘‘Wasn't the Students’ Dance just the
swellest affair like having Howard away
and not having to prepare any Latin

DAL STILL AHEAD

The Intermediate Basketball
team won their fifth consecutive
game this season when they
defeated the R. C. R’s. in the
Military gymnasium on Wednesday night. Ross and Harrison were outstanding for the
collegiates getting seventeen and
nineteen points. ‘3

although you really ought to see Ethel’s
dress because she’s worked so hard and
the mean things plucked her in three |
think the the way Gladys talks about the
other girls is something horrible don’t
you think they ought to cut out this
cheap stuff in the Gazette and have
something funny for a change instead of
putting her picture in as if she were any
better than the rest of us for just as we
got in out seats who should we see in the
next row but Harry and Lillian and what
do you think he said a Pine Hill fellow
too refusing me the loan of her fur coat
when I wanted it so bad why my dear
the only placel find they do it decently
so that it is really permanent is Doom's
Beauty Parlours and then I said to Rene
sweetly ‘‘Je ne sais pas’’ and you. ought
to have heard the way she carried on
at our last class party why I think it
simply awful but don’t tell her that 1
told you either because it’s supposed to
be kept a dead secret and I wouldn't have
her know for the world.”
Needless to say, I shall never attempt
reading in the library again.
— Kelly '29.

Pees EP ee Ph Fk Ps Ph ok rd PF ta Pt BE Ps nt ts Ps Fs Pt Ft mere

; Memoirs of a Young Man at College

*
Em mtr mee Pe a 6 Pott pt IF es Pet ee et ee I tt ee BF

DID not see the Davises again until
I went to the University; my family,
shortly after the incidents recorded last
week, had moved to Cape Breton, and
consequently out of all polite society.
When I had spent sufficient time in the
local high school,—about five years—
I came to Dalhousie to pursue farther
my investigations into natural philosophy,
preferring natural psychology and kindred sciences to some others that are of
less value to man, and woman as well.

They talk of the facilities of their
Medical faculty, the Grace Maternity, the
V. G., the Health Clinic, the other
hospitals and Medical Buildings being
all together, and Camp Hill cemetery
not so far away: let me tell them, that
all this is of no such importance for the
propagation of knowledge, as the nearness of Shirreff Hall to other places of
amusement in the city. When the cost
of education is already growing _prohibitive, and more and more students
compelled to earn their livings instead of
coming to college, it seems an unnecessary
thing that the price of taxis should be
added to all the rest. This Yellow Cab,
I dare say, lives solely by the misfortunes
of the students. It is more than probable that we should have five or ten or
a dozen such companies, or extortioners,
if it were not for the nearness of the
North-west Arm Club, and its benches.

That Arm Club might have been the
gift of a beneficent friend of the college,
and could well be set down beside Leacock’s smoking room, as the foundations
of a University. I have occasionally
sat on the parapet of the bridge below the
Hall, about eleven o'clock of a Sunday
night, and watched the procession; and
often thought that I could write a book,
on the immoral life of the college. I was
sitting there one night, with Pill Hill
and Squib Elliott, when a girl passed
whose step seemed very familiar; and I
heard her say, that she wondered what
Jack Smith was doing there that time of
night: | might have asked what the deuce
she was doing, but I was not only too
polite, but too interested in trying to
think who she was, for I was certain
that I had seen her before.

It was just next day that I found out.
I ran into her—quite literally—at the
door of the Arts building, and knocked
her down. Her hat flew off, and then
I saw her red head, and I knew who she
was.

‘Hello, Jack!’ said she, getting to her
feet.

‘Alice Davis!’ said I.

‘Good guess,’ said Alice. ‘Have you
seen John? He’s a sophomore now.’

I had not yet, but met bim informally
that night, on South Street. There was
a moment, a lull in the festivities, when
I thought there was an aura of the past
from the red head of the person who was,
at the moment, sitting on me. I had a
sudden conviction that somewhere before,
in some place, I had been in that situation
before. I was certain of it; then, in a
flash, I remembered, the occasion when
another red head had sat on me, on the
bridge over that pond, at home.

‘John Davis,’ I gasped. With a
flashlight he leaned closer over me, and
ceased a moment the operation he was
concerned with, of clipping part of my
hair and combing down the rest of it with
shoe polish guaranteed to resist water
(and soap too, as I found later).

‘And Jack Smith!’ said he.
this is a real pleasure, Jack.’

He got up off me; but even today,
when we are firm friends, I have not
been able to understand what he meant
by that. But that night, undecided
though I was, the encounter recalled
other incidents too clearly to let-me be
at peace with myself, and tranquil: the
old humiliation asked for wiping out.

‘You don’t think much of yourself,
do you, Jack?’ said Alice; calmly, that
evening. ;

I was very surprised; ‘No I don’t
think so, Alice,” said I. ‘Not more
than I should. You forget what a
family I come from!”

[ remember that as I spoke she gave
me no answer, and her head was turned so
that I could not see her face. I was glad
that she was ashamed of having spoken
so. We were then on our way to the
Casino: it had seemed to me that I ought
to tell her what I thought of her, and
how can you talk to a girl without taking
her somewhere? My mind was firmly
set on putting her in her place.

“IT am glad that you realize your
mistake,” said I, severely.

“Oh!” said Alice oddly, and a moment
later, ‘‘Yes, I do.”

“Because”’ said I ‘‘there is a difference
between conceitedness and self respect.
One must have self-respect and realize
the position he fills in this world.”’

‘By gosh,

it a fight against or for frats that brought Woodrow Wilson into the

public eye?

Here at Dalhousie there are students, whether with
reason or not, who disapprove of fraternities.
advantages—they bring some students into closer contact.

Frats have certain
The

principak argument for professional frats is that if a man goes abroad

his frat will make things pleasant for him.

It is an attractive thought

to the undergraduate. Certainly there is little harm in frats so long

as they retain their present’small dimensions.

Cite as many advant
ages as we will, we cannot ignore the objections to frats—arising

of course out of their exclusiveness.

We do not propose to pass judgment on the frat; we wish to

make two points.

First that Dalhousie as a whole should decide

whether or not the frat system is to develop at Dalhousie—one hundred students, or whatever the frat membership may be, have not
the right to make this decision, affecting as it does every student.
It is a question for the entire student body. The seéond point is
that now is the time to decide—before the frat system has definitely

taken hold.
be wasted.

This is a question for the Council of the Students.

lf that time should arrive, even a vote of confidence would

There is

no doubt as to its authority: Art. III, Sec. 4 (which makes it difficult to understand why the Council has not discussed this question
before) of the Cofstitution is as follows: No new student society, club
or organization shall be constituted in the University without the san
ction of the Council.

. There are quite a number of students at Dalhousie who believe in and want the frat system.

In justice to them at

least the Council should discuss the problem; and, if it comes to a

favorable decision, repeal this section and legalize the frats.
have a frank discussion of fraternities.

3 *
, ae " ag mJ
ae sy ~~ ee ey
wept Ona

i
ow
—

i
.

is
Pe eS
me

Let us

February 10th, 1927

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

The sign of these days is, in every other
notebook, a yellow envelope. It is not
a telegram—more important still. [From
it, breathlessly and disregarding the
steady flow of professorial wisdom,
hesitant fingers draw forth, for the
inspection of a friend, half a dozen
proofs. Which do you like best? |
don't think they’re a bit like me! Isn't
that a terrible one? Putting us in mind
of course, of the old proverb: All the
girls dislike a likeness. That is why:
All is not told to sitters. i

On Monday night, some say, there was
a pleasant dance at the Hall.
* *

Allan Hillis taking an M.Sc. at McGill.
He is studying cellulose chemistry under
Dr. Hibbert, a Geneva graduate.

*

An anonymous correspondent advises
us that Lord Lytton gave the following
advice to the plucked: ‘‘He who never
despairs seldom completely fails.”’

We do not envy the ‘‘eligibles’’ among
the profs the task of opening their mail
on Monday. How many valentines will
they receive? We ask you one: How
many members has Delta Gamma?

We understand on reliable information
that the Juniors want 400 students to
attend the Snappiest Dance in years.

* * *

Students are beginning to look forward
to the English Nine exam—that is, the
“oral”? which Prof. Bennet stages annually at the School for the Blind.

HALL HAPPENINGS

On Monday night Feb. 7th the Shirreff
Hall girls entertained at their second
dance this year. The honorary guests
were Dean and Mrs. Read, Professor and
Mrs. Nickerson and Professor Bennett.
Though the number present was smaller
than usual the distinctive charm peculiar
to Hall dances was just as much in evidence this time and its success was due
chiefly to the efforts of the efficient committee in charge of it. :

With a ‘‘oui oui’’ here and a “‘la fa’’
there—who would recognize Shirreff Hall?
A storm of French conservation has
swept the Hall, and there is but one
explanation. The dazzling personality
of Mademoiselle Gaspard of Acadia
Seminary has been the inspiration of it
all. She even reads tea cups in French,
and the girls have acquired a thoughtful,
listening, intelligent expression, by which
we may assume that they understand at
least one per cent.

x ok OF

The bridge bug is still at work in
Shirreff Hall. The ‘“‘sky’s the limit’’
in the bidding line and only two girls
have gone down seven so far. The
following conversation shows how enthusiastically the game is pursued:

G. S. ‘Seven Spades’

E. McC. ‘Eight Clubs’

G. S. “You can’t make it.”

E. Me. C. “I know, but I won’t let you
have it.”’

* * *

We are wondering if Allene McCurdy
has contracted a new form of spring
fever. Her aspirations seem to be
higher this time, as she has favoured the
second floor with her presence in preference to the basement.

* *

Some of our male visitors have lately
inquired about the ‘‘missing three planks’’
in the board walk. We have to blame
the men, but we have inside information
to the effect that a little pull exercised
by one caused the downfall of one of the
prominent members of the Junior Class.
Evan, please be more careful in future.

A. Me. C. Did you get my gum at the
little store!
E. M. It never entered my head.
A. McC. I should hope not. Do you
expect me to chew it alter you?
* *

A stranger in the Hall might have
thought that Christmas had arrived the
other morning, but we were relieved to
discover that it was only Madeline
bringing a window-stick full of hose out
of the pound. We hope that she didn't
have to pay five cents per article.

*

Anne Bell and Irene MacDougall have
a couple of gold-fish which have grown
so much that they are no longer comfortable in their present quarters. Irene
is thinking of putting hers on a leash and
letting it roam about the Arm. Everyone
seems to think Anne has grown a lot
herself this year. Has Irene advised
Shorty?

* * *

Some of the younger members in the
Hall are looking forward to the time
when they will be seniors and have the
privilege of serving afternoon tea to their
gentlemen friends on Sunday. Cheer
up, girls, time soon passes.

“A synonym is a word you use when you
can’t spell the other one.”

 
 
  

  

 

aree Failings

oy
is an island to the north-east of
tia, which is separated from the
by only a mile or so of water.
abitants of that island are famous
Id over for their virtues but as
ans are perfect, it is only fair to
the humorous side of some of
-failin Some of the people are
dinarily superstitious, one, at
is a most expert liar and another
ainly a very ingenious grafter.
bably, you will not believe me when
you that there are men and women
who still have implicit faith in the
of the “evil-eye.” John Alec
is one who does. One day
ummer, he drove up to the smithy to
his horse shod. Angus, the blackh, noticed that one of the buggy
Is was badly in need of repair and
sted that it be fixed at once. John
was in a bad temper that morning
vhis refusal was quite tart. Angus
wered back in an angry tone, that
hoped to God” that the wheel would
break before it reached home, as a lesson
~ to its owner for his carelessness. It was
~ unfortunate that he prefaced his remark
with ‘hope to God’ because those are the
words, according to local tradition,
- used when laying a curse.

_ Nothing «more was said and John Alec
drove off to pay a visit to a friend. On
his return, just as he came opposite the

_ smithy, the wheel gave up the ghost.
; "That b ought back the memory of Angus’
_ words and John Alec immediately jumped
fer | ee conclusion that his wagon had
~~ been “witched.”” With a wild yell, he

big teks Py - 2 2 ’
ore: evpred the reins, seized his axe, which
_ was lying on the floor-boards, and took
after Angus like a madman. The smith
i didn’t even stop to find out what the
trouble was; he dropped his tools and
fled for the woods where he spent a most

uncomfortable night.
~ Baron Munchausen has some fame—
and Ananias is not unknown among
etchers of the truth, but for the kingliar of them all, I commend you to Lochy
_ MacNeil. Lochy, in his early days was
a fisherman and he says that one day,
when on his way out to the fishing
ounds in his small boat, a very heavy
all came up. He could see it coming
t had no time to lower the sail and he
ew that when it struck, the boat was
‘e ‘to capsize. There was only one
ng to do and that was to jump clear
a instant when the gust hit his craft,
chy leaped as high as he could, so high
t must have been fully fifty feet—that
he came down he landed on the
of his boat, which had rolled com- over while he was in the air.
s only one of Lochy’s yarns. |
1 Scotians are rather clever in the

grafting, as witness the late inigations into various town and
ty treasury

 
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
     
  
 
  
 
 
    
   
   
   
    
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
     
    
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
   

of
cou departments and Mr.
John MacDonald of this pane is no
_ exception. John was a _ roa repair
a Pan Oy aoias other duties, he had
charge of the pay-roll. On the pay-roll
was one, Sandy MacDonald, laborer,
rate $3 per day. It was noticeable that
_ Sandy’s name was sent in regularly, so
regularly that an inspector decided to
investigate. He found that Sandy was
John’s small Irish terrier, whose sole
duty it was to watch his master’s coat.

—
     
 
  
    
   
   
   
 
    

Song Books

_ Those students who did not get
_ their Song-Books will be glad to
_ hear that they are to have an- other opportunity. At the next
meeting of Glee Club Songbooks will be selling at fifty
cents each. Every Dalhousian
knows the Dal songs!

  

 

 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
 

  

_ || /WAHE PRINTING DEi PARTMENT of the
| Imperial Publishing Co.,
| Limited, is famous for

|| the quality of its press
work, on Booklets, Cata|| logues, and all kinds of
|| Job Printing.
Telephone Sackville 1017

    
    
   
   

   
  
   
   
  
 

    
    
  
  

   

— WALSH'S
PeoRUG STORE
YOUR DRUGGISTS
D7 Som QUEEN ST.
e | The RossPrint Ltd.

~ 95 ARGYLE STREET

  
  
 
   
 

oe

 

  
  
   

ce Printers - Publishers
eT: Bookbinders

  

als

|| We specialize in SOCIETY WORK
_. ‘TICKETS, PROGRAMS
mrt and all kinds of

| COMMERCIAL WORK

i a es Z
) | Orders delivered same day rece‘ved.

us

   

a
1) eS

 
  
  
  

A nely

    
   
 
 

    

Council Meeting

 

The Council appointed a committee, at a short and businesslike meeting on Tuesday evening,
with representatives from each
faculty to consider how to reduce
the Council membership. From
fifteen to twenty members, it is
thought, would make a more
efficient Council. This committee will consider also the
appointment of a Gazette Assistant Business Manager. The
meeting also heard a Year Book
committee and, students will be
glad to learn, voted $150. toward
the Year Book. Other business
included the distribution of Student Union literature on _ the
Christmas conference, and discussion of the introduction at
Dalhousie of the Honour Society,
the idea of which is to provide
recognition for unrecognized but
meriting students.

House, Ross and Guss
(Continued from page 1)

F. X’s team is with the exception of one
man the same as that which the English
debaters pronounced the best which
they had met on their American tour.
St. F. X. spares no efforts to put an able
team on the platform. But, for all that,
this is Dalhousie’s year to win and it
looks as though she has the team that
can do it. Dal has lost the Intercolleglate debates the last two years—last
year to Mount A., the year before to
U. N. B. Previous to these two defeats
Dal had a fine string of wins.

Grads Do Well

W. H. Hattie, Dean of our

School, has received the
following telegram, which speaks
for itself. —- The recent pass list
of the Alabama State Exams includes the
names of three Dalhousians, viz. W. J.
MacDonald W. R. Cameron and H. H.
Pierce. Ten papers were written including Hygiene for which they used
Dr. Hattie’s notes almost entirely. They
also mention that they greatly appreciated
the high value of the course at Dalhousie
and they particularly recommended Dr.
Cameron's ‘wee’ Book.

Blue
Overcoats

Fashion decrees that this season to be stylishly dressed
you must wear a BLUE
OVERCOAT. Nowhere will
you see a better range than
at CLAYTONS. Beautiful

Dr.
Medical

Chinchillas and Whitneys in

the new D.B. 1926 models,
deep storm collars, belted
back, cuffs on sleeves, half

lined Overcoats of distinction.
You will be proud to wear one.

‘20 '28 538
Claytons

JACOB ST.
(A Maritime Industry)

 

9
Bob Johnson’s
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle

MAJESTIC THEATRE
BUILDING

AND
Cor. GEORGE & BARRINGTON
STREETS

Don’t Neglect Your Appearance

 

Living
In Halifax

While living in Halifax
we want you to feel that

The Green Lantern was
designed for your pleas
ure and comfort.
Lunches, Ices, Drinks

The Green Lantern

__ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Page Three

 

  
  
   
  
   
   
 
    
    
   
 
    
    
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

| AsWeW
s We Were Saying |
worse. Seniors, she stated, have a right

WRITER AGREES
to the deference of freshmen.

(Continued from page 1.)

____ —- Miss Elken spoke vivaciously for the
affirmative. The money spent for, bells
and hats was a total loss she declared.
The girls initiation was getting worse and
worse. Self-conscious girls could not
go down town for fear of ridicule. The
regalia of the incoming co-eds had already
gone from green bows to green stockings,
and no one knew where it would stop.
She pitied the professors who were
irritated last fall by the bells of the
musical freshettes. Miss Elkens spoke
in witty and even sarcastic vein and she
was warmly supported by her classmates.

Mr. Baxter closed for the Negative.
He launched a vigorous attackZupon the
enemy. There were emphatic reasons
he said for initiation. It separated the
wheat from the chaff, 90% of freshmen
are mere children away from home for
the first time and moist from their good bye kiss. They need initiation. Otherwise they will consider themselves men
and women. He dealt with the ‘Battle
on the Parade” which he said was enjoyed
by all. Initiation had failed this year he
admitted, but it would fail miserably
next year. He discussed spiritedly in
conclusion the various points raised by
the affirmative.

_ Speakers from the floor were Messrs.
Guss, Howse, Rowlings and Atwood, and
Miss Ells.

_ The vote of the audience was 21 to 12
in favor of the negative.

COLLEGE WOMEN

(Continued from page 1)

ed standards are “‘nil”’ with us. And now,
without precedents, denying all antecedents, we are as bald and as intrinsically uninteresting as a plucked ostrich.
We have sowed the wind: we are reaping
the whirlwind. True, we have our
freedom, our ‘‘self-expression’’ and our
inhibitionless theories. Even at that,
however, I am wondering if the past generations haven't something on us.

And here is Regina Malone’s summing
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
   
  
    
    
   
   
  

By the way the third verse of ‘“‘Garra
Glen” didn’t appear. Perhaps the printer didn’t like it but I think it is the best
of the three so here it is again:

up: ~All the petty things to which you, a
generation or two ahead of us, attach
so much importance, are mere symbols of
a revolt whose object is Freedom—
Freedom, the cry of the ages—and it is
only in this light that they should be
regarded. Beauty and _ idealism, the
two eternal heritages of Youth, are still
alive. It is only the form of expression
which they have assumed that has been
mistaken for their death knell. Laugh
it off, you who are alarmed at this fabulous monster of Youth! Pay less
attention to the surface signs of the
revolt and more to the good being accomplished by it. Remember how the
expression affected you when your parents
cried: ‘‘O tempora! O Mores?” And the
funny part is that the young insurgent
who today inspires your wrath will one
day be saying to a group of tolerant
youngsters: ‘‘Things certainly have
changed. @ Now in my day Ag

Bonnie is the Glen in the stillness of the
morning, _
Cool its green shelter inthe sun-parched

noon,
Friendly are its shadows when dusk creeps
down the hillside
Playing hide-and-seek with the stars and
the moon.
In the dear glen, in the quiet corrie
Where brown waters over gray rocks

eap,

There in the deep-healing heart of the
corrie

Lies the one I love in his last long sleep.

May I congratulate Graham Allen on
his ‘‘Milton asa Song-Writer of To-day,”’
particularly for the scene in the Mermaid
Tavern,—he has caught the spirit of
the thing very well. I am glad to find
someone else besides myself wanders
occasionally into the Mermaid Tavern!
I think I rather surprised a grade XII
one day when I said they'd never enjoy
or understand Elizabethan literature
unless they supped now and then at the
Mermaid, drank its ‘‘good brown ale’’
and listened to the gossip of its frequenters,—gallant Sydney, bold Grenville,
daring Drake, luckless Raleigh, my
Lord Essex and bonnie Southampton
rubbing shoulders with Marlowe, Greene,
Jonson, Shakespeare and all the other
“wizards in words.’’ It has been said
that John Milton never visited the
Mermaid. But I agree with Mr. Allen
that he did. It was just as natural for
young John to drop into the Tavern as
for us to drop into—well, in Scotland
I’d have said the Students’ Union, here
unfortunately there isn’t any sort of
common meeting-place. Milton is usually called ‘‘sublime’’ and so he is, but
at the same time he is the friendliest
“sublime’”’ person one could meet. Apart
from the gay, light mood of Comus and of
L’ Allegro, there is a brightness in Lycidas
that is not to be found in In Memoriam,
and in Paradise Lost there are many
passages that reveal the man of the world
more than the puritan. Give a dog a
bad name and hang him! Call Milton
“sublime” and you releate him to the
examination room. But go with Mr,
Allen to the Mermaid Tavern and join
young John in a glass of ale and you'll
find those passages in Paradise Lost that
are far bigger and more thrilling than
any movie scenario is to-day.

And so ‘‘more power to your elbow,
Graham Allen!”

—M. A. B.

 

LAUGH!
‘IT hear your roommate is something
of an inventor?”

“Oh yes, some of his excuses for cutting
classes are in use all over the world.

Majestic

ALL NEXT WEEK

JAZZ FAN ASKS
(Continued from page 1.)

are two lovers, paying not the faintest |’
attention to anyone but themselves and
avoiding collisions by some instinct which
they alone possess.

Fat and forty comes leaping around
trying to adapt the steps of twenty years
ago to the mad antics conjured forth by
the savage rhythm of modern jazz; the
male expounding heavy political problems
to his buxom mate, who is privately
wondering what has happened to dear
Mary, since she disappeared with that
rakish looking gentleman some five
dances past. Keeping pace with them
for a brief instant is a_ light-headed
young couple, laughing and joking but
with about as much thought in their
heads as there is beer in a beer barrel
after a banquet. In the middle of the
floor is a vacant-faced youth with a
sorrowful locking partner. Their legs
seem to be boneless and entirely disconnected from their bodies. They fly
out at impossible angles, missing other
limbs by the thickness of a rose petal and
giving the spectator the impression that
after all ‘‘the missing link’’ is not so very
many generations away,

Type after type flies past, young and
old, wise and foolish, all keeping time
to the weird, sensuous music of the mad
musicians in the orchestra box. The
music stops and the varied leaves of
humanity file out of the hall, chattering
like squirrels and telling each other what
a marvellous time they had had— —
is it permitted to wonder? :

    
      

JOHN BARRYMORE

AS THE MOST ROMANTIC
CHARACTER OF - TRADITION

“Don Juan”

THIS WEEK
Thur.—Fri.—Sat.

orever After”
WITH

SODALES DECIDES
“introduces” them to the class preceding.
It does not mean barbarous proceedings.
Class ’30 was knit into quick and effective
organization through the impetus of
initiation. Initiation was equally good
for girls. They needed it as bad—or even

MARY ASTOR

and LLOYD HUGHES |

————

CASIN

THIS WEEK-END
BUCK JONES
IN

“30 Below <ero”

Comedy
* ‘DUSY LIZZIE”

MACLEOD, BALCOM,

—DRUGGISTS— Ltd.
5 STORES

174 Spr. Garden Rd.
139 Agricola St.

34 MorrisSt.
103 Young St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

HALIFAX, N.S.

 

FEB. 10-11-12
DOUGLAS MCLEAN in

“Hold That Line”

FEB. -15-I6
RICHARD CORTEZ in
“THE TORRENT”’
—Special—
Monday Feb. 14th,
AMERICAN GLEE CLUB in Vocal and
Instrumental Features
Auspices of the Knights of Columbus .

UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA
“The Bar-C Mystery”

First 3 days next week
“WE'RE IN THE NAVY NOW”

Hudson’s Bay Com
pany Research
F ellow ship One Long Laugh
ne ee kee cent WALLACE BEERY

and

The above fellowship, ofjthe annua RAYMOND HATTON

value of $1,500.00, tenable at the University of Manitoba, in any branch of pure
or applied science, open to graduates of
any Canadian University, will be filled
for 1927 about May ist. Applications
should be in the hands of the Registrar
of Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Manitoba, by April ist. Further particulars
on application. Address
THE REGISTRAR, m=
University of Manitoba,
Winnipeg, Manitoba

 

501 Barrington St.

Halifax, N. S.
Phone H. 1395

   
  

Climo
Photographer

 

Don’t Envy a Good

Appearance!
Come to Shield’s Barber Shop
and enjoy the benefit of expert
service. Always five of the most
_ proficient barbers procurable on
hand. Our Hair Cutting is sure
to satisfy. Ladies’ Hair Cutting in
all styles; also Curling, Shampooing
and Massaging. One trial will
convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS
Prop.
41 Sackville St,

SEE US
ASKETBALL uniforms

made up in your school
colors can be had on_ short
notice. ‘Consult us today
about your needs. Prices are
always right.

“Recreation Headquarters”

PHINNEY’S LTD.

454 BARRINGTON
STREE

Phone S 4780

 

ota. ee : leg
<i eae 3c 2 hee a

ea ee a ae ne al d Pee

a i. 1 ele “8 : S

Se er eee ee ee ee
  
  
  
 
  
 
 

sense of
have done our best and that it has been

up the hill-side,

 

iv

Peace

‘ore.

, A

me ae, %
Stas
; e 2

 

    
  

Le: at inspire us, they lift us above
level of our everyday experiences, and

e ee : to them are due greater deeds and nobler

_ There are other things that
ke us: we are filled at once with a
mage. and pity for ourselves.
ae ge are others that encourage
that give us, not merely a smug
cency, but a realization that we

 
 

well. But none of these is as well suited

- to our needs, at times, as complete quiet.
When we are quite still
of what has been or ma

we can think—
be. Those who

dwell continually in the midst of con
Pa fusion, live mainly in the present, they
- have no time to compare their lives with

what they have been, and to note whether
See ter become larger or smaller.

“here are a few places where I have
found perfect peace. One was on a
hill a mile from human habitation.
There was an old cellar overgrown with

wild-roses nearby, the hill slo gently
down on all sides to dark woods, throug
gnarled apple-trees the sky glowed,

rich orange paling to faintest yellow an
the first star overlooked the peaceful

scene. From far a in the valley the

chime of a church bell calling to evening
worship came over the fertile plains and
soft and clear: while

nearby the gentle tinkle of a sheep's

bell and the sleepy vesper songs of a few

birds broke the stillness.

Another quiet pr is at home Sunday
evening, with the light dim, the fire
making a low sputtering noise, the soft
prelude of a church service coming over
the radio as if from another world.

But not all peace is to be found Sunday
evening. Here in our own college library
in the early afternoon when the few
present are not there purposely to talk
or flap the leaves of books noisily,
when the sun slants drowsily in through
the unshaded windows and the room 1s so

uiet one may hear the clock ticking
pe ponderously, at the other end of
the room, one may rest. 4

It is good to be quiet and to think of
things that perhaps we cannot fully
comprehend, to wonder about things
that are deeper and more difficult to
understand than the way we shall have
our next evening dresses modelled. Let
us try to enjoy more of this profitable

pleasure.
—R.E.G.

¥ e The Engaged Girl

 

  

HERE are some things in this world |

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The F utility Of Latin

 

By P. L, H. Muschamp

N ancient custom which still pre
- A vails in our college is that to secure

a Bachelor of Arts degree one must take
at least two years of Latin. Knowing
this, the high schools, catering to our
ingenious curriculum, are compelled to
begin early to train the students’ minds
to all the peculiar and amusing intricacies
of this venerable language. Already in
the ninth grade a large volume full of
Latin grammar and syntax Is into
the hands of the stupefied little boys and
girls, and a teacher forthwith | proceeds
to spend three years in explaining the
mysteries which it contains.

Fortunately only a slight knowledge
of this language will secure an entrance
into our university. Yet there are quite
a number of students who, having from
the beginning had a strange aversion to
Latin grammar, and fearing to go up for
examination, are for ever debarred from
scholarship. They therefore become ex
to higher education in the school of
ife. Those, however, who had obediently memorized a certain quantity of
Latin, and those who were not deterred
by the fact that they did not know any
ae it, having duly donated twice eighteen
dollars for the privilege, are straightway
admitted into tri-weekly classes wherein
they may continue for two years to
explore ro weird syntax of our pagan
forefathers. By then they have grown
weary of this intellectual toy, and so
they forthwith proceed to forget all about
it.

That Latin is an intellectual toy is the
highest claim that can be made for it.
And yet last autumn, when the Cambridge team debated here on this subject,
each member of the team based his
arguments on the assumption that a

study of Latin and Greek gave the

student an opportunity of reading the
writings of the ancients. This may be so
in England. Here, such a statement 1s
absurd. We do not learn to read Latin,
we spend five or six years trifling with
Latin grammar and syntax. I have
yet to meet the Dalhousie graduate who
reads Latin for pleasure or otherwise.
If he needs classic information he will

‘get it all in very good English translations.

Of course there is no reason why we
should not be able to read Latin fluently.

In France, for instance, and to a certain

 

Fever

extent also in England, the schoolboy
almost at once learns to read Latin.
He is given easy Latin primers, which he
reads willingly because they are easy and
interesting. Thus, gradually, by dint of
reading, he is led on to the classics.

But it is not my intention to suggest
more rational methods of teaching Latin.
I am advocating its abolishment. At
least it ought not to be compulsory.
For whatever the value of a Latin training, and however much of it we may learn,
the time spent on it might have been
better employed on a more useful subject,
such as French. Under the present
system the student learns neither enough
French nor enough Latin to be of value.
It would be much better to know one of
the two well. In a bi-lingual country
like Canada, French should be taught
earlier and more thoroughly than at
present, so that we would not see students
coming to Dalhousie who are absolutely
incapable of understanding or even in the
slightest way appreciating a first-class
French professor such as Dalhousie
provides.

It is essential for us to choose between
French and Latin. There is no time for
both. Learning French provides all the
mental exercise accredited to Latin, and
twice or three times as much of the former
can be studied in the time spent on the
latter. If all the time now spent on
Latin were given to French a student
would get just that extra amount which
at present debars him from speaking
the French language and of appreciating
French literature.

No, we cannot afford compulsory
Latin; at least, not in the University.
The sooner it is done away with the
better for the students. They will
then be able to give more time to the
study of a really useful language or to
any other subject in which they may be
interested. A university should offer the
maximum opportunity for voluntary
research. Ours seems to aim at giving
every student a mere smattering of a
vast number of things of questionable
value and leaves him in such a muddle
at the end of four years that it takes
him as many more to get over the cramping effect of his university training and
to settle down to the business of life.
ie chance of an education may be forever
ost.

 

 

 

 

Dallusiensia

1. What university chair has_ the
Alumni Association founded?

2. Who laid the corner stone of Shirreff Hall?

3. How old is the Dental Faculty?

 

Answers to last week’s questions:

1. The Sydney Post in 1902, which
was then under the editorial guidance of a
Dalhousian, said of a Delta Gamma
debate: “‘Sad to say it was decided that a
lie is sometimes justifiable.” It  regretted that Dalhousie was ‘‘endorsing
one of the greatest vices of the age.”’
Further the Post objected to the discussion of such subjects in college. The
Gazette remarked, in noting the incident; “It must be a pleasure to the
instructors in the college to learn that our
graduates are so sensitive to any deviation
from the path of stern and uncompromising virtue.”’

2. The first women’s residence, a
house on the corner of South Park and
Morris streets rented by the Alumnae
Association, was known as Forrest Hall.

3. The first corner stone at Studley
was laid Thursday, Aug. 15, 1912.

George F. Power
Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos
SMOKERS’

REQUISITES
of every Description.

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.

HALIFAX N. S.

 

Nova Scotia Ships
and Sailor Folk

LECTURE will be given by Dr.

MacMechan in the School for
the Blind, Friday, February 1th,
at 8.15 p. m., with readings of unpublished Sagas of the Sea.

 

«ee ora

February 10th 1927

 

Compare this for value:

72 Sheetsof Paper
72 Envelopes

each embossed with
Dalhousie crest.
Packed in neat box.

$1.85
FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

Nearest Stationer to your College.

 

 

The Greatest Asset of a business is
give customers what they want—
when they want it.

Job and Society Printing

always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

BIRKS DIAMONDS are more
than ‘‘just Diamonds’’. Flawless purity and exquisite perfection
in cutting and mounting have
raised the} BIRKS DIAMOND
to the standard of the ‘‘gem of
of gems”.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS

LIMITED

Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

fe She had her ring; now what to do
__ The anxious girl inquired;
_ ‘Was she to isolate herself

 

Clothes Seen at the Colleges

 

YELLOW CAB High Class Barber

As I lay in my bed with a fever

 

From things all girls desired?

_ Her fiance was not at hand
To see she had her fun,
Why miss the shows and dances too,
For any mother’s son?

 

   
   

I was thinking of Mary-Anne.
My mind not a minute would leave her,
But ever beside her ran.

And in many asad situation

Suits, Overcoats
and Furnishings

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

 

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

 

 

Up-to-date shop with four

chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

Special Bobbing Parlors

 

we: Ys Was I led by this hallucination, <r ee :

ee If other boys her charms had spied And I swore an eternal damnation Halifax’s Only Metered For Ladies

r And longed to take her out, On the head of my dear Mary-Anne. a Ee :

eer - Could she be asked at home to mope God bless her! . . Service ————

. -. Pee SeNEe EO GP ON My sylphian, sublime incantation! Cor. George and Barrington Sts. Same Rates 24 Hours. A. PUBLICOVER

ae At last she settled what to do When the doctor came in to inspect HALIFAX Two travel for sz ;

BP i: . , pect me 4 4 r Same as one. 23 Sori . ‘
E S. - ae peer tried to oh oF He laid his cold hand on my brow, More than two, 20 cents extra. Fe eee

aes g to the quite gay she went, ‘What ails you I know not precisely,”

eos nd there she was the belle. And he doesn’t know that even now.

mi | a oe vague was lacking there, or ee chi hi Scania E th FT rare oe ee eee

ee nd she was rot content; 'T was the sort of a silly affliction WI] N NERS rom the|sScy it with Flowers, Say it with Ours

as a ie ke ares here That comes like a sad benediction Start THE HOME OF Gauvin &Y Gentzel
a | . For faili i --Anne.

RS eee Ey ce ee aE es acne cae! |r Flowers «Potted Plants

; or days she was besieged each hour, a a ears the rade .

Be But always very nice tet paipes og pee Mark on Sporting Goods has been We make up Funeral Designs, Photographers
ao She answered ‘‘No”’ to this and that. Ha dee HArrowly awiasad a mark of perfection. No matter also” Wedding Bouquets. We also
a _ It meant no sacrifice. Being petted Meal Iaced what your favorite sport may be, we do Table Decorating. We are the
ae —Alice Atherton. Aaa es Saciwcres ttadan can supply you with equipment that only members of the T. F. D. Florists.

, But what matters i sad’ story will help you play the game with We can wire Flowers to all parts of
B » WANW> at a, My fever has left me—I’m well— “A the best that's in you. Ere ee

3 S a a And I'll-ever draw comfort and glory y Qaring alc :

s e o = 9g For going through Mary to Hell. CRAGG BROS CO T i. H E R O S E R yx 18 Sp! any Garden Road |

& Z : . LTD. PI S: 2

3 SEE WELL Ser mn s oe ; : 8 BLOWERS ST. none Sac. 692
“ee ae x And if Mary-Anne isn’t the way she is Hardware and Sporting Goods Phone Sac. 3321-3322
> > named, HALIFAX, N. S Ni Sie oe ee ea
S op QY I assure you her beauty are none the less ee ght Phone Sac. 1934
ogee 41D we NAN famed,
4) = eo is none the less prone xe be a. nee ae eo ee ALPHA BETA =u aon the rest
Her broad brow is still just as white as Colla rs ! but won't you learn the male srk ot haart
BUTTONS ON a shroud, ° Dealer’s Text Book. It starts like this:

 

   
  
  
 
  
  
   
  

 
  
   
 

   
    
   
  

  

RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

    

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

| VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:

  
   
  
  
 
 

   

i

Her voice and her speech is no less
sweet and kind,
No less is the purity of her mind.

And so to my Mary, my sweet MaryAnne, :
I send this farewell—
Wherever else I shall dwell,
I will burn up my passion
In an old pagan fashion
And live without purpose or plan.
Oh Anne!
te

   
  
   
 
   
   

   
   
  
  
     
   
  
  
  
   
 

  
   
   
  
  
    
   
   
  
   
  
 

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend

Kinley's

 

     

 
    

Our care in smoothing
all the edges of a collar
not only makes it wear
longer but prolongs the
life of the shirt worn
with it. Remember your
laundry dollar buys more
conscientious care at this
laundry.

Halifax Steam Laundry
81-84 WEST STREET

   

   
   

385 Barrington St.
HALIFAX - CANADA

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons

Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums

Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC
We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s,
Parrish’s, etc.

We Invite You to Join Our

FICTION LENDING SOCIETY

Your Suit or Overcoat eee
. ted, for 7Se or 4 Tickets Going down to re ae NL te McDonald Music Co
for $3.00. DRUG STORE 393 Barrington St. sede
| UNGAR’S For everything in
|iisecetss tae Drug Store Needs Bb eetees Fosse fee
nar elt LAUNDERING DYEING —Electrical Contractors—

Repairs Promptly Executed

100 ARGYLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S.
Phone Sackville 512

 

 
