   
  

 

Ak i r.
ee

_ team.

. *
‘ i 4

|

a

a an

eee
ee
ee
ae
—

i}

= e

 

 

 

 

VOL. LXIX.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 3rd, 1927

 

NO. 13

 

 

 

Year Book Is Assured

 

Year Book Editor

 

 

=
—

Avis H. Marshall is Editor of Dalhouste’s

 

Year Book, independent of the
Gazette.

GIRLS’ TEAM
ANNOUNCED

first

 

 
  
  

 

HE. members of Dalhousie’s sixth
Girls’ Intercollegiate Debating
are Miss Eveleen Burns, Miss
Margaret Ells and Miss Avis Marshall.

  

The team will meet Mount A. here in
Halifax sometime early in March—the
‘date is still indefinite—to debate the

resolution: That the influence of the
United States is on the whole beneficial
to Canada. Dalhousie has the affirmative. In 1924—the only previous encounter—Mount A, won.

The team was chosen from a field of
very keen debaters; those taking part in
the trials held last Thursday were
Miss Rita Bailey, Miss Ells, Miss
Miss Frances MacFarlane, Miss Marshall
and Miss Jean Shaw. Dean Read and
Prof. Wilson acted in their usual capable
capacities of judges; and will now take
care of the team until the debate.

Miss Burns and Miss Marshall are
both members of last year’s team which
gave Mount St. Bernard such a close
struggle. Miss Burns is a Halifax girl
and a brilliant debater. She is quite a
scholar, ‘‘histories’’ being her specialty.
Miss Burns is amember of Arts '28. Miss
Marshall, Arts’27, is one of those persons
who ‘‘make things go.”’ She is in demand
wherever there is a committee. On more
than one occasion she has led the polls
in the Council elections; she is an editor
of the Gazette for the third year. By
making the team Miss Margaret Ells
brings distinction to yet a third Arts
class—’29, which she represented at
Sodales this year in the Freshy-Soph
debate. She is quite a scholar; also a
writer. Every member of the team has
on one occasion at least debated this
year at Sodales.

This will be the first girls’ debate in
Halifax since 1924 and will draw a large
crowd. Since the organization of the
League in 1922, Dalhousie has won three
times and lost twice. She won the
first two debates, which were under the
auspices of Sodales. In 1924 Dalhousie
lost to Mount Allison; in 1925 she won
from U.N. B.; last year she lost to Mount
St. Bernard. All eyes are focused on the
1927 debate.

Have you heard of the Scotchman who
took his family of four into the Green
Lantern the other day and ordered one
cup of tea and five saucers?

~ What’s Doing

Today Med vs Arts (H)
Feb. 5 Dent vs Engineers (H)
Commerce vs Med (B)
Arts B vs Law (B)
Pine Hill vs Dent (B)
Arts A vs Engineers (B)
Y. M. C. A. vs Dal (Sr. B)
8 Engineers vs Arts (H)
9 Dal vs R. C. A. (Inter. B)
Sodales —
10 Dents vs Commerce (H)
15 Med Banquet
18 Dr. MacMechan’s Lecture

 

 

  

Senior Classes Decide To
Publish First Year Book

300 EIGHT Y PAGE COPIES WITH CUTS OF ALL GRADUATES
WILL BE READY APRIL 15TH

ITH a Year Book assured, members

of the graduating classes of 1927
are expressing pleasure that they are to
have a fitting record of their college days.
It will be Dalthousie’s first honest-togoodness Year Book and a matter of
pride to all Dalhousians. An active
committee has been at work, getting
estimates, seeking the cooperation of
student societies and friends of the college,
appointing editors. The result is that
the Year Book will appear on April
15th—-a few weeks before college closes.
Following is the list of editors:

Editor: Avis H. Marshall
Associate Editor: J. W. Merritt
Associate Business Managers:
A. E. Jubien
H. H. Bell
Advertising Assistants: Rex Moore
Murray Rankin
Circulation Assistants: Phil Allison,
John-Dobson, Murray Fraser.
Photograph Editor: Minna Troop
-Asst. Photo. Eds: Helen Wickwire
Lochart Travis
Gerald Stairs
M. Allen
Art Ross |
Copy Editor: Freda Winfield
Assistant Copy Ed.: Andrew Hebb

> ‘Assoc. Art Editors:

There will be three hundred copies of
the Year Book printed—selling at two
dollars each. The book, which will be
eighty pages, will contain photographs
of every graduate, group pictures of
all student executives and teams, photographs of the President, the Chairman of
the Board of Governors, and the deans of
the various faculties, pictures of the
University buildings, and probably the
signatures of each graduate; also writeups of each graduate and of all activities
for the year, to foreword by Dr. G. S.
Campbell and an editorial; perhaps more.
There will be a place to attach suppleméntary sheets containing an account of
the Class Day Exercises and Convocation.
The book will be in attractive form.

The Year Book Committee has surmounted business. difficulties. Arthur
Jubien and Harry Bell are in charge of
that essential part of the undertaking.
The Royal Print and Litho will publish
the book, which will cost somewhere in

the neighborhood of $1,000. President
MacKenzie and other friends of the

students are getting behind the Year
Book. The University is giving cuts of
the various buildings. There will be a

 

of student societies are contributing their
bit. The Business Managers are counting
on some help from’ the Council—-about
$150.; at least that amount would,
were it not for the Year Book, have to go
toward a Graduation Gazette.
The editors are already at
getting the book together. All that
necessary, the Editor-in-Chief told
Gazette, to make Dalhousie’s first Year
Book a complete success is the co-operation of every student.

work,
is
the

Confederation

y tt Sodales

“RESOLVED that Nova Scotia was
well advised in entering Confederation’
is the subject of the next Sodales debate
which will be held in the Munro Room
on Wednesday Feb. 9th. The subject
is a live one for it vies with Government
Control in agitating the public mind
of Nova Scotia. It is hinted that there
is a strong secession party at the Law
School, so any utterences from that
quarter will be heard with keen interest.
The debaters will be: Affirmative, Miss
Allison McCurdy and Mr. Ewan Clarke;
negative Miss Annie Cornwall and Mr.
George Lawrence.

Mr. Ewan Clarke is an outstanding
figure among the undergraduates. His
many activities, both social and_ intellectual, have won him a wide reputation
and great popularity.

Miss Allison McCurdy is a senior in
Arts. She is a keen supporter of Sodales;
a logical debater and the possessor of a
charming personality.

Mr. George Lawrence has considerable
reputation as a Physicist. His style of
of speaking is peppy and witty although
at times a little melodramatic. He can
be relied upon to put up a strong case for
the secessionists.

Miss Annie Cornwall is a newcomer
both to Dalhousie and to debating circles,
but they say at the Hall that she gives
promise of becoming a second Annie
Crowdis. She comes from Hantsport,
in the cider belt, and her oratory has
something of the tang of that famous
beverage.

There was once a Scotch student at Tech.
Who said to himself, ‘‘Now, by Heck!

I'll buy, for a dollar,

A very high collar;

certain amount of advertising. A number | It'll save me from washing my neck”’.

 

Are You Missing An Opportunity?

 

The Gazette, in accordance with its policy
of supporting worthy activities and of
giving credit where credit is due, has on
more than one occasion commended the
Glee Club during this year and last. The
altention which the Glee Club has given
to the drama end of its program has
been particularly pleasing to the Gazette.
Following are a few reasons, which a
student has put down specially for the
Gazette, for dramatics.

The study of Dramatics suggests
matter of character portrayal or impersonation in the interpretation of Dramatic Literature.

Every human being has received and
retains in his sub-conscious life, multitudinous and varied impressions of the
physical, mental, moral and _ spiritual
natures of himself and others.

In actual character portrayal the actor
must abandon himself completely to his
conception of the character. Forgetting himself and remembering only his
character will lead him to unconsciously
take on the personality, individuality,
and mannerisms of that character. Thus
he lives and moves another being than
himself. He surrenders his own personality and assumes that of another, alive
in his imagination. Before accomplishing
this, the artist creates his dramatic
environment, which is very essential,
because life is a response to environ
ment, and drama is a representation of
life.

People who neglect to take an interest
in Dramatics miss the opportunity of
seeing the world through more eyes than
their own. A man cannot know his
fellowmen without knowing their innermost lives; and nothing brings men
nearer to knowing each other than
Dramatics, for it is a study of character
and of man. It is the highest form of
Art.

The study of Drama leads to literature
and to the appreciation that its merits
deserve, while taking part in Dramatics
is an excellent way to develop conversational naturalness in reciting, reading,
or speaking in public.

The mastery of Dramatics brings confidence and poise at all times—in private

 

gatherings, in public discussions, in
society, and in business. It is a valuable
asset to any man or woman. It can

often be turned into money, but it is
always a real joy. In learning to express
thought, we learn to command thought
itself, and thought is power which leads
to successful public speaking, social
prominence, business success, and efficiency in any undertaking. Are these
things not worth while?

Are you tnterested? See John Shaw
or Reg Baxter or any member of the Executive. They will tell you how to get in
on this thing. —E. F. B,

———— ener

Prize Award

The Gazette Committee has
made its award for DecemberJanuary. The verse prize goes to
M.A.B. for Garra Glen. The prose
prizes to Gerald Stairs for the
article entitled Voices Popular
Protest—-and to Graham Allen
for Milton as a Song-writer of
Today. Who will win this month.

The Gazette has been placing
a number of college papers in the
reading rooms. Students will
find in them a great deal of interesting reading. Also some interesting lights on other colleges.
We ask you not to carry them
away.

There is a treat in store for
Dalhousians. Dr. MacMechan
will speak on Feb. 18 at the School
for the Blind on ‘‘Nova Scotia
Ships and Sailor Folk”. See the
announcement elsewhere in this
issue. He will read from some
new stories of the sea, which he
has not yet given to the public.
The evening's entertainment will
be <n opportunity which few will
miss willingly.

ENGINEERS
ENTERTAIN

(G. V. V. N.)

HOSE who missed last Monday's
Glee Club performance—and they

must have been very few—missed one of
the most enjoyable entertainments of the
year, for on that night the Engineering
Faculty presented the first of a series of
performances for the Glee Club Shield.
The largest gathering of the year was
united in the opinion that the Engineers
had set a standard which the other
competitors would find difficult or
impossible to surpass. Their own enthusiasm and enjoyment, their free and easy
presentation, and the originality of many
of their numbers more than made up for
their lack of finesse and most favourably
impressed the audience. The numbers
were varied enough to suit the most
exacting taste.

Play most ambitious Number—

The evening's entertainment was
opened with an uproarious comedy, after
the ‘“Charley’s Aunt’ type, entitled
“A Girl to Order.”’ The actors, while
they showed perhaps pardonable nervousness nevertheless gave a creditable performance as soon as they warmed to their
work. The scene was laid in the typical
room of a college boy, ‘‘Dud”’ Elliot, very
capably portrayed by B. Cooke who in
spite of a sometimes melodramatic
delivery showed that he was a clever
actor. John Morton as ‘‘Lady”’ a chum
of Dud’s, was perhaps the most finished
actor on the stage. He acted his part
with ease and was particularly good
when impersonating Dud’s. imaginary
fiancee. John has added another triumph
to his long series of clever impersonations.
The parts of ‘‘Puck’’ Evans, Mr. Elliot
Sr., and ‘‘Biscuits’’ Nelson were no less
cleverly portrayed by ‘Skip’ Currie,

(Continued on Page 3)

Med Banquet

The first medical Society meeting
since the vacation was held in the Munro
Room on Tuesday evening Jan. 25.
F. Jennings conducted the proceedings.
Various reports were read and adopted.
A lively discussion followed the report
of the dance committee. The following
were appointed to make arrangements
for the coming Medical Banquet—Bill
Soper, Chairman; Art Sangster; Ernie
Doull, Jeff Morris and Eddie Cameron.

This banquet even promises to be
more successful than that of former
years. It will be held at the Halifax
Hotel on the evening of Feb. 15. Tickets
may be obtained from’ any of the committee.

Following the business of the evening
a delightful and entertaining program
was given by the following members:—
‘Ches’ Oake, Tom Morrison, Doug
MacDonald, Johnnie Thurrott, Ralph
Anderson, Fred Jennings, Gordon MacKinnon, Arthur Ross and Jack Lewis.

 

A Discovery Of

The American

University
By Scissors

GLANCE at the colleges of the

United States makes me _ think
that Dalhousie is conservative. Certainly
there is an essential difference between
Dalhousie and the American University.
It is partly, I think, that Americans take
their colleges for what they are worth
while we set our college upon a_ pedestal
for worship. This may not be the explanation; but I do not know how else
to account for the inclination of many
persons to regard criticism as sacreligious
and disloyal to the university, if not a
personal insult to themselves. I admire
in American universities the freedom
of discussion, the amount of discussion,
and the matter-of-factness and frequency
of student-senate quarrels.

   
 

 

 

* * *
| an article entitled ‘The Higher
Earning’? The New Student comes to

the conclusion that the great majority
of American students consider a college
degree a sound business investment.
“This cash nexus in education puts a
demand on professors that is unfair but
not wholly to be deplored. For it is a
challenge to put the really fine mind on
its mettle. Is the professor equal to his
job of bootlegging that unwelcome
commodity—a liberal education—into a
liberal college? His liquor. will have to
be of genuinely pre-babbitt vintage.
His argument will have to be put in
compelling and sincere phrases. Else
how will he show these young go-getters
that Hardy, Voltaire, and perchance
Dreiser, are necessary in a complete
scheme of life?”’
* * *

ee New York Times says that there

is no need to pay serious attention
to the familiar complaint that our colleges
fail in their true mission when they set out
to prepare young men and women for
making a living instead of preparing them
for life. In the first place it is yet to be
demonstrated that college graduates are
conspicuously successful in making a
living. In the second place, the Chinese
graduates of American colleges now
active at home seem to have been very

adequately prepared for life.
* * *
W HATEVER purpose a college education serves, it is a commodity
much in demand. Colleges in New England and the Middle States admitted last
September less than fifty percent of
those who applied.. ‘‘Early in the season”’
a writer to an American paper says,
“the sign ‘Standing Room Only” was
placarded on all our Eastern college
gates. One bright boy, graduating in
the upper half of his class in a New
England city, made twelve applications
before he was finally accepted out in
Indiana.”’
* * *
OTH Cornells have a row their

hands. At Cornell College (lowa)
dancing has been a moot question for

on

years. A recent party, held in the
gymnasium, at which a defiant twothirds of the student body danced,
brought the matter to a head. Their

parents permitting, students may attend
dances off the campus; but they must
not dance on the college grounds. At
Cornell University according to the
Cornell Sun the morals of the University
are about to be raised and purged of the
taint of books mentioning facts or incidents which should not be read by a
child of twelve. ‘‘This is an educational
institution of singularly few constraints
and for intellectual development, some
of these books should be read. After
all, the attitude of mind in which an
author is read is what matters. If the
student is looking for the salacious, he
will find it; on the other hand, if an
individual studies a work for its literary
merits, the reflection of the times, or an
insight into the life of the world, the few
glimpses of the seamy side of existence
will be taken at their face value. A
novel, drama, or poem may fail to conform to the standards of Puritan and

mid-Victorian morality, yet possess
worth.”’
* * *
CONFIDENTIAL Guide to half

courses, beginning in the middle of
the year, appeared in the January 12 issue
of the Harvard Crimson. It is said that
professors handled it nervously. A student ‘in such a position as to have a requisite knowledge of the course, its subject
matter, its professor and his manner of

(Continued on Page 3)

 
 

  
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
   
       
    

(Founded 1869).

~ ’ 3 e Edit is
~ANDREW HEBB. _ i
| Gazette D's:
MARY A. BERESFORD
J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
F. A. CRICHLOW
SIDNEY GILCHRIST
BYRON IRWIN
ARTHUR L. MURPHY

=

Associate Editors:
_* AVIS MARSHALL _ - FREDA WINFIELD
HERBERT DAVIDSON
JAMES A. FRASER
_ GEORGE MacIl NTOSH

Business Manager.

* : _j. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
es ad - 348 Robie St.
aa _ Phone S. 1935

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year. 3

By The Editor

 

 

 

The kind mother was eminent in the community. The
earliest memory men had of her was of a maiden doing and
enjoying work which she didn’t have to do and which in the opinion
of that age nobody needed to do. The tasks which she enjoyed—
_ they considered this enjoyment of hers the greatest frailty that humanity had ever revealed—the community called the “humanities”.
_ Half out of pity and half for the fun of seeing her continue, the com| “munity began to supply her, more or less regularly, with the nec
-_ essaries of living. She more than repaid this debt; time and again
_- she gave inspiration, time and again she advanced the art of living,
in a thousand ways she helped the community. In no ostentatious

way either, it was by her mere presence. She was young, enthus
- iastic, and wholesome, and she thrived.
~~ Minerva followed in the footsteps of her mother. Under the

___ latter’s guidance she performed the humanities, which had carried
__ her mother to greatness; and extended her-mother’s influence. Unlike

her mother, who had done Work-for-its-own-Sake, Minerva laboured
on account of the benefits she thought it would bring—she followed in
her mother’s wake.

--———sHHer mother noted with concern that she did not love the humanities. Minerva’s mother was getting old and could not remember with
certainty what had been the motive of her own pursuits: love was the
incentive, she thought for a while. But if so, she reflected, of what
_ yalue are Minerva’s labours? A definite idea gradually came to her
of the purpose of the humanities: they were to discipline the mind.

_ -Worth-while, this discipline must have seemed to her—for to them

bee she had de dicated her daughter’s time. Perhaps among its values, if

Mea was the daughter of a kind mother.

*

  

  

  

tho ight at all, she placed a safe mind and an ordinary personality.
worshipped Discipline. oes
She had not long adopted this Doctrine of Discipline when
inerva began to disturb her. Minerva was acquiring a work-andplay philosophy which made her tasks so much sunshine. She began
to enjoy herself; she loved her Work-Become-Play. She grew in wis~~ dom and in health, which radiated through the community doing much
good and raising her mother’s prestige. Her love of the pursuits
_-~—s which a kind mother provided was so great that even though her
- mother should substitute unloveable tasks, Minerva would for a long
¥ time continue to labour under her mother’s direction; she had mom entum. Minerva’s new attitude disturbed and worried her mother,
__ who was blind to the good which was accruing to both.
a “There is no Discipline in this,”’ she cried.
Rice” =. Then she hit upon an expedient—she added to the humanities
a few more tasks which made in all, she was pleased to note, too many
for her daughter to love. Again Discipline reigned. Minerva strug_ gled on, wondering at the meaning of it all, trying to enjoy her new
tasks. At last and much to her mother’s dismay she succeeded:
once again she loved her work; once again work became play; again,
though her mother saw it not, she flourished. ths
eo A desperate mother tossed and turned. Upon_ Disciplinary
Value, as if a deity, she would call. In time she found another stop. Zap: nor was it a mere finger with which she proposed to close the hole
in the dyke. She was going to press into service the old truth that
a man cannot ride two horses, with this difference—she would give
Minerva not two but many horses, and of those some prancing and
some spiritless. Diversity of Tasks! she gave her daughter a range
- and variety of studies which was beyond Minerva’s ability to love.
Once again Discipline held sway. But Minerva was still young
—she would develop.

A period of doubt and contradiction followed. Minerva got
discipline galore—strangely too there seemed to be a sort of value in
‘it. She had so long done her mother’s behest automatically that it
was beyond her to judge. Sometimes she would think that she was
wasting life; but no, it could not be. She would keep on, her mother

must know best. How she hated to doubt her mother! A long
| time +passed—a terrible time of doubt and suspicion. Under the
_ handicap which her kind mother had imposed, Minerva really grew
during her few spare moments only. She grew nevertheless—she
changed slowly and to the discomfiture of her mother who did not
recognize the change as growth. The time came when Minerva again
| - Joved all her tasks. She could pass with enthusiasm from one pursuit
y to an unlike pursuit. Doing became an obsession; not to be busy
was to suffer.
, The kind mother, who was getting older and more difficult to
i eee respect, as on former occasions grew pale with apprehension. She
ie ‘trembled as she thought that Discipline, which she considered the
, reason for her own existence, had flown. There was no discipline
tony for Minerva in doing what she liked to do! For a long time, during
~~ -—s which Minerva and her mother prospered, though the latter did not
gee it, Minerva’s mother looked this way and that, now in desperation
and now in despair. At last she overcame the difficulty. With even
= — greater ingenuity than the man who gave to the task-demanding
ss giant his little dog’s tail to straighten, the kind mother, who saw that
action was almost life to Minerva, decided to enforce idleness. Day
_ -after day she compelled Minerva to sit doing nothing, hungering for
action, eating up her soul. The kind mother was pleased with her
- success. This was a masterpiece of Discipline.
_ -_[dleness was agony to Minerva—it was as though she were

eth thrust from fiery flames into icy water: she suffered torments—which

      
    
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
    
  
  
   

. a
“

ante
ee ainahdindeteaedl a

LOE ES RY =. =

a : J 7 * 3 = t “bias ard
t ; aS 3 . ah. tet es BP * ‘

 

DAI-HOUSIE GAZETTE

-« 4s ess

 

ee

{

Memoirs of a Young Man at College

*
, SO tt et tes rs Fs Pe pms pc ps PF ts pt et et PE Fk ee ee es ee

A

likely to be, will not be entirely without
interest. Though my father was involved in one or two mis-understandings
with government officials, he had managed
to lay up a modest competence when he
was forced to retire, and I was sent to
both school and college.

When I first arrived at school, I remember no joy on the face of my new
teacher, at my arrival; my only welcome
came from two redheaded children,
sitting behind me, whose name was
Davis. The boy asked if my father were
dead; he thought that otherwise there
was no, reason for the patches on my
trousers. His sister was chewing gum,
and offered me part of it, sticking it
(without my consent) in the short hair
at the back of my neck, where it was of
little use to me, and hard to get out. I
have still a small bald spot there, from
the hair being pulled out with tweezers,
one by one, while I lay on my face howling
at home. I naturally resented this; but
found it wiser to leave retaliation alone,
for the Davis girl fought as well as her
brother: until some four or five years
later, when I was (I remember) eleven
years old, and a singular opportunity
presented itself.

There was near the school a large pond,
with bulrushes and yellow cow-lilies, and
three feet of mud at the bottom; and a
bridge over the lower end of it. One
warm sunny afternoon in late May,
after school, I found the Davises lying
face down on that bridge, engaged in
the philosophic pursuit of pollywogs, for
dropping down young ladies’ necks. At
once (with the masterly intellectual
grasp of a problem that later distinguished
me at Dalhousie) the possibilities of the
situation were evident. It seemed an
easy thing to do, and I dropped them
over at once, by tilting up their heels.
There was a fine large splash: then the
water was disturbed and murky, with
nothing to be seen but the yellow lilies,
and lily pads: I had begun to think, when
there was no sign of either Davis, that
the pond was deeper than they said it
was. There was a splash at the farther
side of the pond, and a head appeared,
and then another. They had crawled on
hands and knees to the edge of the pond.

education of one so famous as I am| should both get out in the same odd way,
and in the same spot; but the Davis girl
was always accustomed to following: the
lead of her brother. |

This triumph of my revenge was marred
by two things. There was no witness to
taste the full glory of it; that I could
never do justice to in my accounts of it;
and the joke was not taken in any reasonable spirit by the Davises. As they
advanced on me from the edge of the
pond, the streams of water, their faces
and heads full of mud, and one red head
decorated by some river slime, I found
my appreciation and enjoyment too keen
to realize the danger I stood in.

In fact, I forgot that I was one, and they
were two. Before I. saw what he was
about, John had seized me about the
body, Alice pulled my feet from under
me, and I landed, with a bang, face down
on the bridge without a breath in my
body.

From that moment I have been a
‘cynic, without more faith in humanity
than Timon of Athens had. I had been
friendly with those two for four years,

their superior number, and treat me as
they did, stirred resentment that has
lingered long and bitterly. I reached
home with eyes swollen, my clothes torn,
and covered from head to foot with mud
and slime and scum from the pond.

My mother met me at the door; and
what had already happened to me, in
that memorable day in May, became
nothing, to my horrified childish mind,
beside the expression my mother used
when she saw me._ I was shocked beyond
words. Nothing comparable to. that
moment has ever entered my life. She
had taught me not to swear, not to deal
in those habits and ways of speech that
are allied with crime. The effect of that
one word has been so great that I set it
down in my memoirs, as an instance of
the damage that may be done unthinkingly, and of those influences that have
so imperilled the future of my soul.
From that moment began all the vice
and crime that I have been charged with.
I thought I must be mistaken; but there
was no doubt; my mother spoke forcefully
and distinctly.

‘Oh, darn!’ said my mother.

 

 

many of their jokes against college
characters were funny and well put over
but it is to he regretted that they allowed
a strain of vulgarity to creep in. It
detracted greatly from an _ otherwise
amusing scene.

Doull and Mahon in Gymnastic Dance
Perhaps the best thing of the evening was
a gymnastic dance by Albert Mahon and
Bob Doull. Albert has appeared before
at Glee Club but Bob’s skill was not
generally known until Monday night.
The dance opened with a Charleston
exhibition by Mahon, followed by a
wonderful series of stunts by both dancers. They were encored.

Camp Fire Scene Weakest Number—
The last act of the program was laid in
the summer camp of the Engineers.
Trites and Burchell played a pleasant
string duet the effect of which was
somewhat marred by an abrupt and
ineffective introduction. They were followed by a humorous dialogue between
Wickwire and Hood. Wickwire as a
vagabond negro was particularly good.
He was the bright spot in a dull performance. The scene closed with the
singing of the Engineer’s song by the
following: Chisholm, Sullivan, Wickwire,
Trites, Burchell, MacKay, Prince and
Morton.

Above all mention must be made of
the stage hands to whom much of the
credit for the show's success must be
given. They were Maclver, Love, Stairs,
Francis, McKeagan, Thurber, Kenney,
Weatherbee and Kolonel, Of these Stairs
and Travis with Harry Bell, Stage Managers, are to be especially congratulated.

During the evening Dal. banners and
song-books were sold and Lee Chisholm
led in a few Dal songs. Johnnie Budd’s
orchestra, with Chas. MacKenzie, Graham Allan and Ken Smith provided their
usual excellent music for dancing.

Engineers Entertain

“Ed” Brown and Doug. Scott, the latter
being particularly good in his short
appearances. ‘‘Ed’’ Brown taking the
part of ‘‘Dud’s’’ father is to be congratulated for doing so well, though called
upon at short notice to take the part
left vacant through the illness of Wes
Stewart. Finally John Power made a
perfect lady as Miss Elsie Jordan Dud’s
real sweetheart. While his voice was
not very ladylike his appearance was all
that could be desired. The whole play
was enlivened by clever hits upon local
characters and customs.

The Shortest Tragedy on Record—

The second number on the program
was a tragedy entitled The Wrong Flat.
The Engineers solemnly affirm that in
this they have presented the. shortest
tragedy ever performed on any stage.
Certainly the various estimates of its
duration varied anywhere from fifteen
seconds to a minute and a half. The
actors taking part were ‘‘Skip’” Currie,
Albert Mahon and ‘‘Jake’’ Power.
Engineers Show their Originality—
In The Face on the Bar Room Floor the
Engineers adapted the poem of the same
name to stage production. Amidst the
drunkards and gamblers of a saloon’a
tramp tells the story of his downfall.
Walter Deckman as the tramp gave one
of the most finished examples of acting
of the evening. He modulated his voice
very well to the various moods of his
story, and was ably assisted by Brown,
Hood, Delaney, Ley, Morton, Lowe,
Cameron, and Beaton as the gamblers
and drunkards. This number though
too noisy was effective.

Clever Comedians—In the fourth
number an extremely lifelike imitation of
a train drawing into a station was given.
In it the Engineers showed unmistakable
signs of a genius for their profession.
The scene centred around a dialogue
between two college boys taken by
Barney Morton and Fred DuVernet.
These two are clever comedians and

(Continued from page 1)

Tis said Enchantment’s found in Bright
Elysian Bowers
And love in life existence doth enhance.
But if you want to spend four charming
hours
Just take her to the Junior-Sr. Dance.

 

 

she felt less and less. Almost indifferently she believed that all was
vanity and everything futility. When at last Minerva sensed that
she should leave her mother and direct her own life, Discipline had
impaired her strength, and she remained in misery and her mother’s
care. The time passed slowly. Meanwhile enforced idleness caused
her to do what she had seldom done before—Minerva commenced to
think! A process began which, because it was mental, her mother
could not see in time to stem. Minerva found comfort in her thought.
From her trough of misery she rose slowly; she found thinking even
pleasurable. As she progressed she had visions—of big things which
for lack of leisure she had never even glimpsed until now. She developed a philosophy—a broad and enlightened outlook, a wide and true
perspective. She saw the paltriness of Discipline-for-its-own-Sake
and the bigotry of her mother. She saw what we so seldom see today:
she saw life—and the great truths of which it consists. She grew in
wisdom and in stature; she became a tower of strength.

At last the storm broke. In a magnificent outburst of anger
and indignation, Minerva rose up and renounced her mother—dethroned her forever.

  

 

 

SHORT summary of the early|It may seem ‘a coincidence that they]

and to have them take advantage of.

: ebruary. 3rd, 1927

   

‘THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

    

The Argosy Weekly, which appeared

last Saturday, carried an~- account of

Friday Night’s game here: in Halifax.
Nothing slow about Mount A.—on ice
or on paper!

* * *

The Sociology Club held one of the
most interesting meetings to date in the
Murray Homestead at 2.30 p.m., Wednesday, Jan. 26th. The speaker was
Dr. Hincks, whose address was not only
instructive, but unusually entertaining.
The subject was ‘‘Mental Hygiene” and
the speaker pointed out that this did not
mean ‘‘Feeble-mindedness.’’ Dr. Hincks
was in Halifax in connection with
the mental survey of the province. He
took time from his one day in the city
to come up and tell the Sociology Club
about conditions in Nova Scotia, which
are simply appalling. Dr. Hincks strongly urges social workers to remain in
Canada, particularly in the Maritime
Provinces, although he frankly admits
that the doubled salaries obtainable in
the U. S. are a strong inducement to

leave Canada.
* *

Roe McKenna, former hockey star, is
studying for the priesthood in St. Augustine’s Seminary, Toronto.

* * *

_Lieut.-Gov. Torey has made a generous
gift of $500 to the Library.

* * *

There are many ties between Shirreff
Hall and Pine Hill. A disheartening
number, Pine Hillers will tell you, are
railway ties. :

* * *

What the college boy needs, says a
critic, 1s narrower pants and_ broader
mind. At Dalhousie there are no ‘‘college
boys.”

* * *

Henry Borden, Nova Scotia Rhodes
Scholar for 1924, was one of four men
to obtain distinction in the London Bar
Exams.

* * *

Everybody had a good time at the
Council Dance. There is ‘“‘that certain
something’? about the Council dances
that makes them go off well. But if we
might venture a criticism—informal dress
seldom improves a large dance.

* * *

The Year Book is now well under way.
Its success will depend in a large measure
on the promptness with which those
working on copy, send in the fruits of
their labor. Everybody working on the
Year Book please take for their motto:
“Do it now "’.

: * * *

The Junior-Senior Dance is in sight.
It will be, like its six predecessors, the
“best dance of the year.”

* * *

Our trials, of which we students have
not a few, have of late been mostly
debating trials. The men have had trials,
the women have had trials, the men have
had more trials. One of the charms of
debating is that you can speak’ for ten
minutes without the idea that you are
not a Gladstone ever entering your head.
We are moved to exclaim, with the
late Mr. John Milton, Blind Mouths!

* * *

Miss Agnes MacPhail, M. P., has
pronounced education throughout Canada
a complete failure, obsolete and infected with dry rot. The lady speaks
in strong terms. We will vouch for the
dry rot, but are not altogether sure that
it has not its value.

* *

Letters that
English period
literary flavor.

* *

home in
peculiar

are. written
must have a

Careless writing does cause trouble
once in a while. For. instance—a co-ed
walked into the Gazette office one
morning this week and seeing the title
“Innocence Abroad’’ scrawled across
some copy, remarked ‘“‘Oh ‘Innocence
Atwood’ ,that’s a good one! Who thought

that up?”
* * x

Tuesday was election day at the Law
School. It was the climax to a hard campaign—meetings, button-holing, bribing,
distribution of cigars and promises of
portfolios, and logrolling. And then a
stuffed ballot box! Today is election
day again!

 

Dallusiensia

_ 1. What daily newspaper took objection to Delta Gamma debating the resolution: That a lie is sometimes justifiable.
2. What Dalhousie building was
are Ee i Hall?
‘ en was the first corn
Studley laid? ) a

 

ee Weiler questions:
; alhousie had a Literary
ere 1884-85, -_—
. e Gazette of Oct. 27, 5
which declared that Dalhousie ous
at the beginning of a new era, said that
Mr. G. S. Campbell, Chairman of the
Board of Governors, was recognized as
Nova Scotia’s leading citizen.
3. In 1882 the members of the Royal
Society for Canada for Nova Scotia were
chosen from the faculty of Dalhousie.

 

 
   
    
     
   
  

 

—
|
=

23
S

The Intercollegiate Comm_--ittee will hear all the debaters
again tomorrow night. Only

__. those who appear at the Munro
-. Room on Friday Feb. 4, at

P

.
au
o

ae

Fa
Bar

‘
¢

 

____ no man is indispensable.
ot t}

meee,
3

 

A Discovery

_ (Continued from page 1.)
presenting his material” criticized each
 } course. - oer may not be large
. enough yet to justify such an undertaking.
- I ean think of nothing better calculate
_ to keep the prof on his toes. ;

if RESIDENT LOWELL (Harvard)
has made an interesting statement
on American college sport. Intercollegiate sports resemble, he says, the world
series of professional baseball leagues,
the games in the Coliseum in Rome, or
the races in Constantinople. Surely,
as the aim in instruction is to give instruction to all, that in athletics should
be the physical culture of all. They

_ should be conducted for the benefit of
the students, not to furnish entertainment to alumni and the public.

FE*HE President of the University of

Wisconsin declares that so long as
he is president ‘‘complete freedom of
thought and expression will be accorded
with utter impartiality alike to teachers
who entertain conservative opinions and
to teachers who entertain radical opinions.
The fact that I may think, that an official
of the state may think, or that a citizen
of the state may think a teacher's opinions
wrong-headed or even dangerous will not
alter this policy. For the whole of human
history presents unanswerable proof that
only through the open and unhampered
clash of contrary opiniors can truth be
found.” Base

ECLARING that fraternal groups
as they exist in American colleges
at present, are antiquated and a remnant
of a mediaeval age of education, organization of a Student Union of several
thousand members is announced at
Syracuse University. Fraternities and
sororities are in an uproar over the
_. impending danger to their social ‘status.
_ They are attacked as being ‘‘throw-backs
to the Stone Age, exerting a detrimental
influence on the whole university and
fostering the clique spirit of savages.
- Breeding of schism and discontent within
‘the student body is laid at their door.
Can this information, which I take from
the New Student, teach anything to us at
Dalhousie, where the frat system has
‘not yet taken hold?

LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN:
YOU WILL FIND THAT OUR

Footwear

SPECIALLY APPEALS
IN STYLE TO

College People

Ro ile

Chain of Stores

SPRING GARDEN RD.
BARRINGTON ST.
and DARTMOUTH

 

  

Dalhousie Stationery

24 Sheets Writing Paper
stamped with the Dalhousie Crest and 24 Envelopes to match.

Special 50c Box

    
       
   
 

Connolly’s Book Shop

487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Pau)’s Church.

 
      
    
   
 
  
 

KEEP YOURSELF
LOOKING SNAPPY

at
LEE’S
Basement Barber Shop

Let us cut your hair every 10 days
We cut your hair to fit your type
We are experts.

48 Sackville St., Halifax, N. S.

ed

 

 

. ' ih +. i
A nay * 2 re ag te } >
= he ae
‘on ‘> oi : a
Pad He abit a: a ae

eaantnee aad

_ STOP PRESS Dalhousie Faculty

8 p. m. will be considered as

. : DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Page Three

 
 
 

 

  

s > : SSS.

: Undergo Gruellin g
Summer Tropical Tour

 

 

For the News
When it is News

Read

*

THE

HALIFAX
HERALD

Experiences In

MEMBERS OF COLLEGE TEACHING STAFF AMONG THOSE MAROONED ON TROPICAL
| ISLAND IN THE SOUTH SEAS WHILE INDULGING IN A MYTHICAL EDUCATIONAL
TOUR. PROFESSORS WILSON, MURRAY, AND STEWART SPEND TWENTYFOUR HOURS AT SEA ON FLOATING DEBRIS. PARTY RESCUED BY PASSING CATTLE BOAT AND BROUGHT BACK TO HALIFAX.

 

 

 

    
   
  
  
 
 
    
   
  

O*

the South Seas.
of care from their furrowed brows.

Panama Canal, entering the beautiful
waters of the Pacific.
- The usual ship sports were indulged in
by nearly all. Professors Mercer and
MacNeil emerging victorious in the
deck tennis and shuffle board contests
respectively.

Dr. Todd however proved the only
exception, he, always of a_ scientific
nature, took a great interest in the
spacious waters of the beautiful ocean,
and, desirous of viewing every atom,
spent his time constantly leaning over the
rail, and counting them as they sped by,
and adding to their numbers at frequent
intervals.

Much inconvenience was caused by the
unequal distribution of superfluous adipose among the Professorial aggregation
and the Captain demanded that an investigation be held. The investigation
resulted in the depositing of Professors
Stewart, Wilson and Murray in the hold
of the ship for ballast purposes. The
immediate improvement was explained
by Dr. Johnson, who stated that the
center of gravity was thus lowered and
stable equilibrium was restored.

Cloudless days and nights sped quickly
by as the ship forged steadily southward.
Every night the happy throng would
gather on the deck and under the spell
of the tropical moon, the phosphorescent
water, and a melodious Hawaiian orchestra, that as Dr. MacMechan afterwards
said, “played blues divinely,” swayed
hither and thither back and forth, to and
fro, oft times coinciding until the night
was well nigh spent.

‘There came a night however that was
not so fine. A tropical storm coming up
from the southwest concealed the moon
and soon the ship was being tossed about
like a cockle-shell. Loath to give up the
dance however the midnight revellers
ignored the elements and continued to
worship at the shrine of the great god
Terpsichore, modernly known as Jazz and
Bacchus, in the brilliantly lighted saloon.

Heedless of the warning cries of the
clamouring crew they danced on and on,
crazed by the seductive boom-boomboom of the drum. A sudden brilliant
flash of lightning momentarily illuminated the angry sea, a cry arose, ‘‘Breakers
to right of us, breakers to left of us,
breakers surrounding us, what shall we
do?2”’ .

Fear replaced their blissful pleasure of
a moment ago and they stood at fixed
attention while Gowanloch expounded in
his typically concise and explanatory
manner, ‘‘Will all of the human females of
the class mammalia of the sub phylum
vertebrata, phylum chordata, together
with their offspring, who represent the
immature generation of the _ species
betake themselves primarily laterad where
ocean going vehicles will be found suspended by ropes attached to their anterior and posterior extremities for emergency purposes.”’

Time did not provide for such safeguarding measures. Long before the
gist of the speaker’s remarks could be
assimilated, the ship striking a reef,

 

 

 

Smart Suits and
Overcoats
FOR COLLEGE MEN

$18 $20 $24

Less 10% on presentation of
D. A. A. C. ticket at

CONDON’S

BARRINGTON AND PRINCE STS.

‘NMOL-NMOC AYVMY
MIVM NOA Al LINE
Say.NOA AVM SH SI SIHL

TOILET SUPPLIES

CONFECTIONERY
TOBACCO

RUBBER GOODS
WHEN

Freeman’s have em

COR. COBURG and HENRY

THE morning of June 15th, 1926
the good ship Honolulu left Halifax Harbour for its annual cruise through
Among the intelligentsia
on board were many of those politely
referred to by us as Profs, who were
seeking new climes to erase the wrinkles

 
  
  

Many and varied were the comforts
and discomforts suffered by the motley
throng until the ship passed through the

worked with true medical skill over their
victim.
until Todd walking forth with his usual
dignity
released the shrunken
patient's
water issued forth drenching Dr. Cameron
who was bending over his subject.
“ooh, ooh,”’ of Jock blended melodiously
with the ‘‘Mon Dieu” from the rapidly
recovering
Jock's gain an1 Dr. Bronson rushed forth
to draw the attention of the asseml ly to
the unparalel'ed example of the veracity
of the Law of the Conservation of Matter.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

eyes of M’sieu Cameron I tink I am da
stiff.
Mais I recovaire tres vite.”

their safety were extended all round—
the only sad feature being that Professor
King seemed to have lost the art of speech.
This was later explained by the fact
a his notes had gone down with the
ship.

the roll, extracting fees to defray any
imaginary

realized that the three who had been
serving as ballast on the ship were missing.
Nowhere could they be found and finally
all hope having been abandoned they
united in singing,

All stopped and gazed out to sea where
three small objects were seen on the
horizon.

 

By M. and R.

with great speed and consequently great
momentum, was shattered and quickly
began to sink to the ocean bed.

Fortune favoured the castaways in that
they were wrecked on the coral shores
of a tropical island. The sun rising out
of an ocean of sapphire blue and wending
its way across a cloudless sky disclosed to
view Archibald MacMechan, unconventionally attired and seated on a lofty
rock, viewing with bewilderment the
miscellaneous collection of debris and
humanity scattered along the shore.
Stirred to his deepest depths by the sight
that met his eyes, he quoted from the
words of Beaumont:—

“‘Here’s an acre sown indeed,

With the richest royal seed.”’

Descending from his lofty perch he
betook himself towards the shore there
to restore to consciousness his ‘‘co-mates
and brothers in exile.”

Soon Professor Walker came to life and
he and Archie quickly revived all except
one, viz, Gautheron, who ignored all
their efforts at artificial respiration.
Eventually Drs. Cameron and Bean
took matters into their own hands and
Their efforts seemed fruitless

deftly
the

of

manner
collar from
draughts

and superior

neck. Copious

The

Frenchman. His loss was

‘‘Mon Dieu, when I gaze up into da

It scare me ‘‘tres beaucoup,”

Handshakes and congratulations upon

The registrar then proceeded to call

expenses that might arise.
It was then that the astonished throng

“Oh hear us when we cry to Thee,
For those in peril on the sea.”’
Their song was interrupted by a cry.

As these approached the land the
nearest was discovered to be Professor
Wilson, seated on a log clutching in one
hand Alger’s masterpiece, ‘‘Sink or Swim”’

and reading from an open book in the

other, “How Washington Crossed the
Delaware”’.

On closer inspection the second proved | and soon

to be Howard Murray, standing on a
keg marked XXX, the sight of which
brought tears to the eyes of more than
one of those gathered on the _ shore.
Professor Nickerson unable to control
himself attempted to rush seaward but
was restrained by those who demanded
an even distribution. Dr. Murray seemed
to be delirious. Standing there with
arm outstretched, he was quoting. from
the first book of Virgil’s Aeneid, ‘‘The
weary Trojans direct their course towards
the nearest shores and make the coast of
Libya.”

Violent utterings were heard out of the
third object which heretofore seemed to
be but-an empty barrel, ‘‘All ‘S’ is ‘P’,
D - -n the undistributed middle.”” And

 

A FRIEND OF THE
COLLEGES

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

Che Daily Star

MACLEOD, BALCOM,
—DRUGGISTS— Ltd.
5 STORES

174 Spr. Garden Rd.
139 Agricola St.

34 MorrisSt.
103 Young St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

HALIFAX, N.S.

 
  
 

  
   
   
  

seemed

experience he had made a mistake as on
boiling the expected delicacy it turned
out to be burdock.

junior
elected impromptu tailor and climbed
with monkey-like agility to the top of a
lofty
palm leaves which were quickly seized
upon even as did their father Adam in
the days of old.

imagining himself to be a modern Robinson Crusoe wandered far afield and was
presently met by a dusky individual who
appeared to be a native.
Jock as he gazed upon the biceps, quadriceps,
formidable personage.
neeficent subject, what beeootiful muscles.
‘The native however seemed to be about
to do some dissecting on his own account,
so Jock deeming discretion to be the better

anatomist entered the camp.

eager mutterings he was led to the keg

 

 

AND
THE

EVENING
MAIL

a face, well washed by the waves, which
proved to be that of Herbie Stewart,
protruded out of the open head.

‘he tide was kind, and soon the tardy
Profs had reached the shore where a
joyful welcome awaited them.

A short scuffle ensued at this point :
when Gautheron and Bean each claimed
the island for his mother country. Hostilities were settled by the intervention of
one Mercer, learned in international
diplomacy.

A dark visaged and dark haired individual peering over his glasses hereupon
demanded breakfast and muttered something about English 9 and future plays
that were to be produced. All were
hungry and they thereupon each according to his several ability did his bit.
Macintosh produced many rare geological
specimens which instead of meeting with
the expected approval were used to build
a fireplace to inclose the fire constructed
by Prof. Johnson by the harnessing of the
sun’s rays with an optical lens.

“A find! a find!”’ cried Bell, emerging
from the bush with an armload of what
to be luscious spring rhubarb.
In spite however of his vast botanical

  
   
 

 

CASINO

THIS WEEK-END

THOMAS MEIGHAN

“TIN GODS”

With RENEE ADOREE
Our Gang Comedy
Chapter 5

“The Bar-C Mystery”

First 3 days next week

 

The tremendous epic of romantic
womanhood.

Professor Theakston being deemed the

member of the gathering was

“STELLA DALLAS"

With Ronald Colman, Lois Moran,
Belle Bennett, Alice Joyce.

palm, throwing down numerous

 

Dr. Cameron intent on exvloration and

“Ooh,” said

 

major of the
‘What a mag
1 ctoralis
and pectoralis Firm. ica

TOM MIX in
“No Man’s Gold”

FEB. 7-8-9

“3 Bad Men”

IMPERIAL ORCHESTRA

Oh

that | were dissecting him.’

part of valor, fled, hotly pursued by his
hungry and cannabilistic foe. ‘Sixty
M. P. H.,”’ said Bronson, as the eminent
‘*The stress
is not equal to the strain,’’ murmurs
Copp. Here Professor King came to
the rescue, rushing up to the negro as a
thought occurred to him “C2 H5 OH,”
he said. At last he had found a man who
understood him!!!! An immediate smile
suffused the face of the native and with

Nova Scotia Ships
and Sailor Folk

LECTURE will be given by Dr.
MacMechan in the School for
the Blind, Friday, February 1éth,
at 8.15 p. m.,

marked XXX.

Numerous were their experiences and
peculiar were their appearances as day
succeeded day in their forced confinement,

Eventually the crew of a passing ship
heard Professor Bell singing ‘‘Tie me to
your apron strings again’’ in his sleep
and thinking that something unusual was
happening on shore investigated much to
the joy of the learned tourists.

On the tenth day of September 1926
a cattle boat sailed into Halifax Harbour
after many Yellow Cabs proceeded out of Pier 2 with a group of people
who had agreed that nothing was to be
said about their experience.

However it has leaked out and you have
just read the gist of it.

with readings of unpublished Sagas of the Sea.

UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA

Hudson’s Bay Company Research
Fellowship

“A caterpillar is an upholstered worm.”

 

“Faith is believing what you know is
not true.”’

‘“‘An anachronism is a thing a man
puts in writing in the past before it has
taken place in the future.

The above fellowship, of the annual
value of $1,500.00, tenable at the Univer| sity of Manitoba, in any branch of pure
|or applied science, open to graduates of

 

;any Canadian University, will be filled
yy WAN> yyrPCk A |for 1927 about May tst. Applications
2 © > ©. {should be in the hands of the Registrar
te Z of Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Man= SEE WELL See = 9 | itoba, by April 1st. Further particulars
nee be A a 29 jon application. Address
s vr G THE REGISTRAR,
“4epg aw Cay ANd” University of Manitoba,

Winnipeg, Manitoba

 

SEE US
ASKETBALL = uniforms

made up in your schoo!
colors can be had on_ short
notice. ‘Consult us today

about your needs. Prices are

always right.

“Recreation Headquarters”

PHINNEY’S LTD.

454 BARRINGTON
STREET

 

Qe

— BasKet Baur
D> (ae

 

zl

 
  
   
   
    
 
     
   

  

  

| Gorrect Dress for Students

|| George F. Power

|| ‘HALIFAX

| YELLOW CAB

 

,

inter-Burns Ltd.

- Exclusive Agents for
Pi

E Society Brand Clothes

   
 
 

oe

 

 

ae
Po ae
,

437 BARRINGTON STREET

,

   
      
     
   
    
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
 

Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
of every Description.

-—Also— |
Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
- More than two, 20 cents extra.

give customers what they want—

z } Pa y when they want at.

  
   
    
 

et Ore i th ¢
ras

€

always delivered when
romised at the

Bee ony ee es, Se ae
Nova Print Limited

ee
¥ 5 es

ae (aoa cal gre 3
Beare. 23" BP eich One Block North of Post Office

 

927-229 Hollis Street

a

 

 

|| BIRKS DIAMONDS are more
|| than ‘‘just Diamonds’’.

Flaw
- ze _ less purity and exquisite perfection
|| in cutting and mounting have

  
 
 

Diamond Merchants

      
      
     

‘
é .

|| raised the BIRKS DIAMOND

to the standard of the ‘‘gem of

Wh of gems”.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

HALIFAX

 

WALSH'S
. DRUG STORE

YOUR DRUGGISTS

SPRING GARDEN RD.
COR. QUEEN ST.

 

        

SUPER-PHOTOPLAYS
AND

JAY EFF’S PIERROT ORCHESTRA

COMING ATTRACTIONS

| “Don Juan”.
With JOHN BARRYMORE

“Forever After”
MARY ASTOR

“Syncopating Sue”
CORRINE GRIFFITH

With JACK MULHALL

 
 

  

MAJESTIC

 

 

Thur.-F ri. & Sat—‘SUBWAY SADIE”’

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

February 3rd 1927

 

Mount Allison Hockeyists Win From Dal 2-0

In Good Gam

©

 

Arts B and Law Tie

Arts B., Pine Hill Theologues
and Law were the winners in
Saturday’s Basketball games played in the gymnasium when they
won from Arts A., Engineers and
the Medicals respectively. The
game between Commerce and
Dentistry was forfeited. Jim
Mitchell was high scorer for the
afternoon netting twelve points
for the legalites. Arts B. and
Law are now tied for first position in the Post Xmas league,
each winning three games. —

Dal Defeats Tech.

In Listless Game

 

In a rather listless exhibition of basketball, the Dalhousie five won from the
N. S. Tech quintette at the “Y” on
Saturday night by.a 40—22 score in a
regular city league fixture.

The Dalhousie team got away to a
good start, netting ten points before the
Tech boys tallied but in the latter stages
of the game their combination work
dwindled and numerous unsuccessful
long shots were indulged in; Langstroth
seemed to have an off night on the basket.

Brown and Cox proved effective in the
second period, getting many pretty close
in shots and rebounds.

N. Keefe of the ‘‘Y” and Brickey
Stevenson handled the game.

Line up—

Dalhousie — Forwards, Langstroth,
Cox, Center, Brown; Guards, Moore,
Smith.

Girls’ Sport

The Girls Intercollegiate Basketball
schedule which was drawn up during
the Christmas holidays is:—

Feb. 12 Mt. A. vs. Dal at Sackville .
Feb. 18 Dal vs. Acadia at Halifax ~

. 7.30 p.m.
Feb. 25 Mt. A. vs. Acadia at Wolfville
Mar. 5 Dal. vs. Mt. A. at Halifax
12.15 a.m.
Mar. 11 Mt. A. vs. Acadia at Sack.
Mar. 19 Acadia vs. Dal. at Wolfville

Why not plan to go to Acadia March
19th to see the final game of the series
and also to encourage the Dal team?
The team would surely appreciate a
few rooters at Acadia. They can easily
go up Sat. morning and come down on the
evening train.

The City League schedule is:
Feb. 2, Dal. vs. United Memorials at
the Y. M. C. A., 9 p. m.
Feb. 8, Dal vs. ‘‘Y’’ Aces, West End
Baptist Hall, 9 p. m.
Feb. 14, Dal vs. Gogetters, West
End Baptist Hall, 7 p. m.
Dal has played 3 games in this league
already, the results being:
Jan. 12, Dal vs. Gogetters,
38—13.
Jan. 14, Dal vs. ‘“Y”’ Acés, Dal won 22-16.
Jan. 24, Dal vs. United Memorials,
Dal won, 45—16.

Dal won

If we are to win the next three games
and especially the last two, we need some
one to yell for us. So don’t forget to
come out Feb. 8th and 14th. The
games will likely provide enough thrills
to keep the spectators from going to

sleep.
—B.F.

——_—_$_$_$———————— ee

“Hotel Imperial”
POLA NIGRI

‘Duchess of Buffalo’

CONNIE TALMADGE

“The Show”

JOHN GILBERT

DOROTHY MACKAILL

gg rt eg a a Ee ne ee ag ae OM a Ee ae eee es ee ee

 

LEWIS SAVES DAL FROM
WORSE DEFEAT

HE Mount Allison Hockey team made

their second intercollegiate win
of the season when they blanked the
Dalhousie Tigers at the Arena on Friday
night with a 2—0 score before about
three hundred spectators.

The Sackville boys had complete control of the rubber during the sixty minutes
of play and all credit must be given to
Goalie Lewis of the Gold and Black for
the small count chalked during the
evening’s play. He was bombarded from
every angle during the entire play,
stopping all that came his way, the two
shots scored being netted on rebounds.

Ray Smith, playing wing for the
Mounties drew first blood after thirteen
minutes of play, collecting a close in
rebound oft Lewis’ pads, while Gus
MacLean slapped in the second and
last count in the final session.

Wickwire and Doull, playing defence
for Dal,. were outstanding for the Halifax
aggregation, their checking and blocking
proving a continual hindrance to attempted combination plays on the part of the
Mt. A. forwards.

Combination work on the part of the
Dalhousie squad was a minus quantity
throughout the game and the lack of
back-checking by the forwards was also
quite noticeable.

Lewis was given a severe jolt in the
third period. When attempting asave he
collided with one of the Mt. A. forwards,
but was able to resume play after a short
rest.

Frank Brown of Moncton refereed.

The teams:—

Dalhousie—Lewis, goal; Doull, Wickwire, defence; Langstroth, Taylor, Grant,
Sangster, Brennen, MacCunn, forwards.

Mount Allison—Bartlett, goal; White,
MacLean, defence; Smith, Miller, MacLean, Oliver, Rowley, Vince, Allanach,
Thompson, forwards.

 

Inter-Faculty Hockey

The inter-faculty hockey league
is expected to get under way this
week, provided Jack Frost comes
across with some ice. Only one
game has been played this season,
the Lawyers winning that from
the Engineers 4—0. Medicine,

Dentistry, Arts and Commerce
have all entered strong teams
and a busy season is anticipated.

 

Blue
Overcoats

Fashion decrees that this season to be stylishly dressed
you must wear a BLUE
OVERCOAT. Nowhere will
you see a better range than
at CLAYTONS. Beautiful
Chinchillas and Whitneys in
the new D.B. 1926 models,
deep storm collars, belted
back, cuffs on sleeves, half

lined Overcoats of distinction.
You will be proud to wear one.

‘20 °28 '38
Claytons

_ JACOB ST.
(A Maritime Industry)

    
     
     

Compare this for value:

72 Sheets of Paper
72 Envelopes

each embossed with
Dalhousie crest.
Packed in neat box.

$1.85
FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

Nearest Stationer to your College

   
   
   
  
 
 
  

   
 

   
  
    
 
  
 

 
 

    

 

en 4. ©

e At Arena Friday Night

Big Game Saturday

The Senior Dalhousie Basketball team meet the ‘‘Y’’. five at
the Y. M. C. A. gym. next Saturday evening. So far the ‘‘Y’’
have won all three games,
while Dal have dropped one and
won two. This game is the
deciding one in the league and a
win for the Gold and Black will
result in a tie with the “‘Y’’ for
initial honors. This fixture promises to be the best of the season
and a large turnout of fans is
expected.

Cubs Win Fourth
Straight Friday

The Dalhousie Intermediate Basketeers won a decisive 38——-16 win over the
St. Joseph’s representation in a_ one
sided game played at the Y. M. C. A.
Friday night, Ross and Harrison were
high scorers for the evening, each getting
fourteen points. To date the cubs have
won four games in as many starts.

 

 

Line up—
Dalhousie -—— Forwards, Harrison,
Smith, Miller; Center, Ross; Guards,

Sperry, Jones.

Dal Girls Win

In a rather slow game the Dal girls
beat the United Memorials at the West
End Baptist Hall, Monday Jan. 24th.
The Memorials are a new team who
played well considering their lack of
experience. The Dal play was disorganized; the passing was slow and
inaccurate, the catching was fumbled
and the forwards seemed unable to find
the baskets, missing more than half
their shots. The high score run up by
Dal was no indication of their playing
as they should at least. have doubled the
count. If there were stars they were the
guards. The team will have to display
much better form if they expect to make
any sort of showing in the intercollegiate
league.

 

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N. S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

Barrington St.,
Sack. 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

 

WINNERS From the

Start
For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

Going down to

  
 

 

<u

MADERS

 

 

 

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend
Kinley's

THE. REXALL
DRUG STORE

For everything in

Drug Store Needs

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «Potted Plants

We make up_ Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the

only members of the T. F. D. Florists.
We can wire Flowers to all parts of
the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

     

Smart Oxfords

FOR MEN

Well-dressed men know that
Oxfords are necessary to keep up
appearances. These very men are
the fellows you~ see daily at
WALLACE’S buying Oxfords and
Spats. :

OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11

Wallace Bros.

427 BARRINGTON ST.
Cor: Sackville St.

 

 

Sports Equipment
Everything for

FOOTBALL and
BASKETBALL

Special Terms to Clubs.

MacDonald Hardware Co.
SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

 

 

Clothes Seen at the Colleges
Suits, Overcoats
and Furnishings

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W.F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.

HALIFAX

 

ALLENS

SOCIETY
AN

0
COMMERCIAL
PRINTING

 

124-126 Granville Street

 

 
