   
 

og
Ty
am |

“WOMEN’S LUNCHEON

 
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
      
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
 

 

To Hold Further GathPALE Tees eres

Phere is only one magazine in Canada

‘Jt is the ‘Canadian Student’. uf
ae - “The student Christian Movement 1s
not a so called ‘pious’ organization; it Is
without creed or doctrine, but it is with
e. Its purpose is to help students

“
,
—-.

a ee

ie Be post
to find a full realization of life, to help
students who have problems, to help

students in their seeking and to help
students who wish to test the truth of
- the principles set forth by Jesus.

the Worlds Student Christian Federation.
Students in other countries have problems
_—— ._gome of them far greater than ours—
and _ we have, whether we wish it or not,
‘a tremendous influence on the solution
of those problems. Even our own
individual attitude, to those of other
. nationalities, of other color, can send the
, educated of a country to war — or to
friendliness.” =
Such was the concensus of opinion
expressed by three ‘‘Student Movers” at
the University Women’s Luncheon on
Thursday, Oct. 7th. About eighty students were present at the Green Lantern,
— includir : who were the.
*S, C. M. and Miss
vas also a guest. The get—
ndeed a very successful

Naat
ve oe

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    

women students.
niality of inter
ure was derived

  

e briefly on

1€ stu
s Miss a |
ered to help with the study groups,
E. re and pee . Clarke

sssed willingness to assist. Se

yin: other leaders ie anion to help if suitable
_—s arrangements can be made.
jects for study are interesting.

   
 
 

    
      

Bes gage, 5) Jeaus in the Records
- “- ~~ Jesus of Nazareth
----- Life and Teachings of Paul
e Prayer and Worship
Internationalism

1. Social Principles of Jesus
2. Industrial, racial, social |
A Book, e.g., Where and What is God?
The Clash of Color

If the present reader is in any way
attracted to the aim of the Movement, or
the course of study offered, would you
please not put off until tomorrow, but
inquire regarding the movement immediately. If you wish to criticize please do
so, but remember that criticism 1s only
valuable at certain times, to certain
people. Be direct!

 

 

oe Investigate Midnight
Se Oil

ALIFAX is one of the best lighted
cities in North America. Two small

= streams, the North East and the Indian
eh, = rivers flowing into St. Margaret’s Bay,
Ser i fifteen miles from the city are in a great
a iS measure responsible for this achievement.
ae It was to the generating stations and
cae their subsidiary plants operated by these

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
  

streams that the Engineering Society
made the first of their regular trips this
year on October 16,

The Upper plant, about a mile back
from the main Bay road at the head of a
small lake, is worked by the combined

- flow of water from the two streams
mentioned, the two being at a place where
they run within a half mile of one another
The water is led through a six foot wooden
pipe two thirds of a mile long and is
under a'pressure due to a head of water
of 156 feet. At the plant the water enters
two turbines of about 2000 horse power,
each turning at 515 revolutions per
minute. These are directly connected
_ to two large generators, which turn the
water power into electric power. This
Upper plant is still uncompleted in that
another pipe line to it is planned and will
be constructed as soon as the Halifax
. loadincreases—probably when the Christ_-—-—saMass exams. appear in the offing!
_-—~——s The Low Tide water plant is situated
on the shores of the bay near the main
: f a and the motorist can see at a glance
station. From  Halif
continually in sight of the eighteen
nsmission line on its two hundred
rers—not to speak
crossings of the H. & S. W.
: a a as ihe Noo Pete: inn 520° ae eae tay
Bie la

fu

  

to make up the

fe 5:

    

  
   
 
    
 
 
  

published by students and for students
er “We are a small but important part of

 
 
  
   

ion i t we.
tion is that w ‘Club. The president and

 

nd | manager.
‘that caused by Jack

articular foe
eas | his experience he will no doubt meet the

dent movement. _
owe and students who

Several

  
  

The sub-}

pment aoe
rom Halifax the Engineers |

-in addition |

of,

   
 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 21st, 1926

2 SIGHTY P RESENTAT In Large and i Athitdinstic Opening Meeting of Sodales NAME DEBATERS

 

Debating Society Freshmen Win Decision Over Sopho
 
   
  
 

ANNUAL PRIZES

_ Through the kindness of
friends, the Gazette is able to
announce, in addition to the
monthly . book prizes, three
prizes of ten dollars each. One
of these will go to the writer of
the best verse contribution, the
other two to the writers of the
two best prose contributions
printed in the Gazette this year.

The regulations and judges |
will be the same as for the other |

prizes. |
Elect John Shaw

OHN Shaw is president of our Glee

and Dramatic Club for 1926-1927.
By an unanimous decision of the students
who were present at the mass meeting
held in the Gymnasium last Thursday,
Oct. 14th, John was chosen to fill the
office which was left vacant by a nonreturning president. To _ be - president
of such an important organization requires ability—executive and iniative—
and the students have voiced their
opinion together in selecting John as the
man capable of the position. Great
things are now expected from the Glee
the vice,
Jean Shaw, should be able to keep within
close touch of one another—and show the

   
   
     
   
   
         
 
 

  
    
   

‘importance of the ‘‘family”’ in society.

Bill Moran, at the same meeting,
was selected as the proper man for stage
He also filled a vacancy—
Atwood—but with

expecta ions of the students—that is
“make things go.”’- es

Bisincex Is Good

Commerce too seems to have cuaght
the enthusiasm which is this year per4meating student organizations. The millionaires have already had several meetings. The track team has been out for a
little training; Arts will need to watch
its aurels. Last Thursday D. R. TurnTurnbull, President of the Halifax Board
of Trade, addressed the society on the
future of Nova Scotia. Mr. Turnbull
believes in Nova Scotia and urged his
listeners to remain here because he
thinks they will be better off in the’ ong
run by doing so. He discussed the merits
and elements of a college training for
business as contrasted with the apprentice
method and went into this question
quite thoroughly.

which cropped up occasionally. As we
descended the hill from French Village
station the first thing appearing was the
ten foot wooden flume carrying the water
from the first dam under a head of water
of ninety feet. Next, the huge surge
tank which regulates the pressure on the
turbines and prevents damage due to
flood by acting as a safety valve. The
last and most important unit was the
station itself with the great number of
wires going in and out. Here the power
generated by the Upper station and the
power from the water from the first
dam are controlled and sent humming
into Halifax over the transmission lines
to give 60,000 people light, heat and
electrical power.

Dallusiensia Contest.

next fifteen Gazettes.

What do you know about your university?
facts which enable you to be proud of Dalhousie?

Will Hold Trials After

Christmas

N Wednesday 13th October Sodales

held a large and enthusiastic meeting
—the semi annual meeting and the
freshy-soph debate. The meeting approved the recommendation of the executive
—Miss MacLellan, Messrs: Davidson,
Fairbanks, Rosenblaum, Dobson, and
Brown—that the intercollegiate committee—Dean Read, Profs. Wilson and
MacDonald; and Principal MacKinnon—
should choose without trial the debaters
to represent the university against Cambridge in November. The Society will
hold the trials for the McGill and intercollegiate teams immediately after Xmas.

Ralph Morton and Margaret. Ells
represented Class ’2' and Kendall Fay
and Lillian Barnstead opened the debate
for the freshmen. Kendall Fay spoke
particularly well. The judges gave a
decision in favour of the freshmen, who
upheld the affirmative of the resolution:
That too large a proportion of the student
funds is spent on athletics. After rebuttals the debate was thrown open to the
freshmen. and’ sophomore classes. Class
’°30 had the greater number of speakers;
indeed a record number of freshettes
spoke—and spoke very well. It soon
appeared that the subject was a live one:
debaters spoke with a conviction that

Sodales has often lacked; it was evident

that the new students had been finding
out some things about their college—
and had been doing some thinking. The
sophomores too made-a good case: their
leader made what a parliament would
call a pevy nice point. He said in effect:
It will do the affirmative no good to show
the wastes and extravagances in the
conduct of Dalhousie athletics; they
must show that the money appropriated
to athletics which is actually spent on
athletics is too large a proportion of the
student funds. That argument probably
came nearer than any other to winning the
debate for the affirmative.

Horace Read, in his whimsical and
able way, delivered a critique which was
both interesting and accurate.

K. MacLellan, Rod MacLeod, and
Gerald Godsoe were very acceptable
judges.

A Good Beginning

Monday, Oct. 11th, the Student’s
Council started the social ball rolling
with their annual informal dance. It was
even more successful than usual—which
is saying a good deal! There was a
large attendance from Medicine, Dentistry
and the ‘Strong arm of the Law” as well
as from Arts and Science.

Professor and Mrs. Gowanloch and Mr.
and Mrs. Sterling, chaperoned the dance.
The affair went off so smoothly and
successfully that there is really very little
tosay about it. It spoke for itself.

 

Bill Hewatt is planning ‘a big year in
interfaculty sport.
* k

Harry Morton prepared the Student
Boarding House List.
KOK

Philosophy 4 has not a single bobbed
head.

‘ ' 4k

SHE will like Nigger-Heaven parties

as well as ever.

 

 

DALLUSIENSIA CONTEST

Do you know the
If so, win our

If not, discover them and win the contest.

We will print three questions concerning Dalhousie in each of the
Send your answers to the Gazette each week—
before the appearance of the next issue, in which we will print the

answers for the previous week. Address your answers to the Dal
lusiensia Editor.

At the end of the year we will award a prize for the best set of

awswers—forty-five in all.

This is no circulating-increasing contest.
equal chance to win—freshman and senior alike.

today!

Everyone has an
Enter the contest

This week’s questions are:
1. When was Dalhousie founded?
2. Who was the first principal?

3. What histories of Dalhousie have been printed?

 
 

Pia he Bo 8 sel aa tae I el a Te oi kil

mores in Debate on Expenditure of Student Monies

ALL ANGLICANS

Through the courtesy of Rev.
Dean Liwyd, there will be a meeting on Friday evening, October
twenty-second at eight o'clock
in St. Luke’s Parish Hall, corner
of Morris St. and Queen—of all

Anglican students at Dalhousie
Kings University. men and wom
en. Dr. MacFarlane of the Dalhousie Faculty will preside and
Dean Liwyd will explain the purpose of the meeting. It is to the
advantage of Anglican students
to attend.

Many Attend

HE Newman Club held a bean supper

in honor of new students at the Kk. of
C. Building. Father McManus and
Father McCarthy of the staff of St.
Mary's Cathedral were present a'ong w,th
Professor Angus McDonald and Prof.
Jim McDonald. There were about 75
members present. After a very enjoyable
hour, the gathering dispersed in order to
enable the students to attend the mass
meeting to be addressed by President
McKenzie at the gym,

The first regular meeting of the Club
was held Sunday afternoon. The Charplain addressed the students on the various
phases of college life. He stressed the
fact that the Newman Club was essentially a religious club and not merely
recreational.

The president gave a sketch of the
history of the Newman Club after which
plans for the coming year were discussed.
It was unanimously decided to have a
Communion breakfast in the near future.
A committee consisting of Prof. McDonald
Miss Smith and Miss Murphy was
appointed to select a suitable emblem for
the Club.

A social committee consisting of Miss
McDonald, Miss Murphy and Messrs.
Connolly, Sutherland and Soper will
arrange for the meetings and entertainments of the year.

The officers are as follows:
Chaplain—Rev. Father McCarthy

Hon. President—Prof. J McDonald.

President—E. J. Thereault

Vice President—Miss Eveleen Burns

Secy.-Treas —W. H. Godsoe

Executive:—Medicine J. W. Merritt;
Law, G. J. Godsoe; Arts, Miss J. Daley
and Mrs. C. H. Cotter, Dentistry, O. C.
Taylor; Alumni, Miss Helen Wakely,;
N.S. Technical, J. Hutton.

 

 

Dianas Bid Doctors

An inter-class basketball league has
been formed among the dashing young
Dianas of Dalhousie.

These battles are scheduled to take
place every Tuesday evening from 7.30
— 8.30 and are open to the public. No
admission will be charged. It is entirely
‘free for all’’, in all respects.

Doctors and Lawyers are expecially invited to attend, as accidents might
happen such as “‘knock-outs”’ or disputes.
This will be an excellent opportunity
to practise your professions.

The schedule is as follows:—

GIRLS INTER-CLASS
BASKETBALL LEAGUE

1926

Oct. 18th 7:30 p.m. Class '29 vs Class '30
7:45 ae sé neh ae se 98

ee 26th 1230 Catt ge eg le
7-45 “ “é 17 és be 30

Nov. Ind 7:30 ce is 97 ae sé 29
bas * eure = Se 36

ee Sees.” Pe eee lh Se tet ee
7:45 se ae 30 ‘ec se 29

ce 16th 7:30 is ae 30 sé a iy
7:45 ‘e ‘e 98 Mt ‘e 29

‘f  eea- 7330" an Be SO BE
7:45 ae sé WAS) ‘i te A ay

Jim Fay spent the summer on the
continent.

K*K*

MacKinnon, Law School recruit, last
year led the St. F. X. debating team to
victory.

** x

Murray Macneill and Stan MacKenzie

are former secretaries of D. A. A. C.
* eK

Bob Ross is working with the Fisheries

Experimental Station.

    
 
 

  
  

Ya
iter.

  

CY

ANT

   
 
 
 
   

  

  

NO. 3

 

AGAINST ALBERTA

Is Arousing Much
Interest

REDA Winfteld and Arthur Murphy

will represent Dalhousie when she
crosses swords through the columns of the
Gateway and the Gazette with the University of Alberta. Dalhousie is putting
her best foot forward. The Alberta team
is Jack Sweeney and Emily Horricks.

The debate is arousing a great deal of
interest among the Canadian colleges.
A. Ross Harkness, Editor-in-Chief of the
McGill Daily, in a letter to the Gazette
says: ‘“The plan of holding a correspondence debate through the columns of the
two papers appeals to me very highly.
It solves the rather difficult problems
imposed by geography in a very satisfactory way.’’ H. B. Ross, Editor of the
King’s College Record says: ‘‘It is really
quite a novel idea, and one which should
prove interesting to the readers of both
papers. If successful, one would like to
see a similar exchange in the field of
politics’ or of social problems—although
your present experiment is an admirable
attempt to make East and West mutually
acquainted.”’ R. L. Rooney, Editor-inChief of The Xaverian Weekly, congratulates Dalhousie on being one of the
first colleges to participate in this innovation. The Gateway tells its readers to
“follow Alberta and Dalhousie as they
battle with the pen—still a mightier
human engine than the much-advertised
sword.”

Dalhousie has the negative of the
resolution: That a university regulation
requiring regular attendance at lectures
is in the best interests of the students
of that university. The first affirmative
‘‘speech” will appear in the Gazette and
Gateway of Nov. 4th. Arthur Murphy’s

speech will appear on Nov. ilth. The
second affirmative on Nov. 18th. Freda

Winfield’s on Nov. 25th. Arthur Murphy’s rebuttal on Dec. 2nd. The affirmative rebuttal wiill camplete the debate.
The judges, who are the editors of the
Canadian college papers, will then render
their decision.

Dents Still Doubtful

LARGE and enthusiastic gathering

faced President Barrett when he
called the meeting to order last Friday,
Oct. 15. After the minutes had been
read and approved, the meeting was
thrown open to discussion.

As at the previous meeting, the chief
item on the program for discussion was
the Dental Dance and once again. the
members failed to agree. A motion that
the Dance be held was carried by a
16—13 vote but here the insurgents,
headed by Messrs. Miller and Callback
and comprising practically all of the older
members of the Society, took exception
to the proxies voted by Messrs. Taylor
and Oldfield of the Second Year and Miss
A. MacDonald of the Pre-Dental year.
Year, and were upheld in their contention
by President Barrett who then declared
the vote null and void. It was thereupon
decided to hold a meeting in the near
future at any hour suitable to everyone
in the Society and the Secretary-Treasurer
Henry Godsoe, was instructed to find out
if such an hour could be found. The
report of the Committee in charge of
arrangements for the Dental -Banquet
was heard. Terms were agreed upon and
the selection of the date was left in the
hands of the Committee.

As guests to this Banquet it was
voted to ask all those directly connected
with the Dental work of the various
years. A motion, moved by Mr. Giwin
and seconded by Mr. Harrington, that
the three professors of Anatomy, Embryology and Chemistry be also invited was
only partly successful. The first year
voted solidly on asking all three, but,
save in the matter of the genial presiding
spirit of Anatomy, could find no backers,
the Second Year providing them with the
backing in the solitary case successful.

Mr. Taylor, the Football Manager, was
heard on the subject nearest his heart.
It was voted to go on with the Interfaculty League without the aid of the
Pharmacy students.

After a few minutes dissertation by
Henry Godsoe, after the manner of all
Treasurers and Secretary-Treasurers, upon
the payment of dues, the meeting then
adjourned.

—Q. B. I.

~

She—'‘Ted came to see me last night
and we discussed wars and battles.”

Cath.—-“Oh, an arms conference, my
dear?”’ >

 
       

     
  

Bs The Dalhousie Gasette —
ies * 4 i ree iv nee 1869).
% es ee | 3 ANDREW HEBB.

Associate Editors:
Fy AVIS MARSHALL
Peas FREDA WINFIELD
ste : HERBERT DAVIDSON
. BYRON IRWIN
GEORGE Macl NTOSH

Business Manager.
J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD

348 Robie St.
Phone S. 1935

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year.

A Dal Night?

 

   

FUN is a necessity. This is particularly true for the college
student——his work is so serious and he is so serious. No student, even
although he has come to Dalhousie for a good time, can help but take
< things seriously. Parents, professors, senior students, are forever
‘ saying, ‘Be careful’, ““You are the leaders of tomorrow”, “You'll get
plucked if you don’t watch out’, ““Work hard because you won't get
_ the chance again’, ‘“To turn out to the games is your duty”, and other

warnings. The result is—can you be surprised——we are a serious lot;
too serious quite often. Pure fun is a godsend.

Our most intense enjoyment is in the crowd: ‘Man is a social

animal,” says Dr. Prince, ‘‘a gregarious creature.’’ And the larger the

-_ crowd the better the fun—a party of seven or eight hundred students
could have a whale of a time. All we need is a good excuse to get

 

3 together. Somehow or other the games have not an universal appeal ;
~~ Glee Club comes nearer to getting us all. We suggest a theatre night;

why not inflict ourselves upon the Majestic—it might just happen
that the entertainment would be a Sheakespeare production: and, no
matter how good or bad it was, we would, in addition to having our
party, get credit for very refined tastes. We could clap all the jokes
and recognize the puns by laughing loudly; an occasional yell would
: _ keep the party moving. The evening would be fun straight through—
think of bawling out the mixed couples, think of the streamers, think
of the noise, the commotion, and the heat of hundreds of animals
_ living to the full! Think of the excitement and emotion when we
z fete ctvit hundred of us—the noise and music of it reverberating
from Orchestra to Gods. The faculty would go of course. And Stan!
_ The professors are fair game. #

oD le <
i =

 
   
  
    

eas, a
ey ee

aah ore

Se ey

   

Tar.
” Se

A night like this would not be a waste of time. It would quicken
sae what that great sociologist whom we have already quoted calls “group
-_ eonsciousness, esprit de corps’’— what others call ‘‘college spirit’.
It is contact with other groups that unifies our own. You remember
- Bismarck’s little war against France just to solidify Germany. Note

also the difference between a university debate and a Glee Club enter_ tainment—both in the gym and both large meetings: you might

expect, though you would be mistaken, more Dalhousie consciousness

at the Glee Club than at the debate. At the latter there is an under
current of emotion that you do not find at Glee Club; we sing and give
the college yells and are intensely proud of being Dalhousians. The
. reason is that at a debate the public is in attendance. So it would
r  ~—~—sS “ie at the Majestic—only more so: the contact with theatre-going
Halifax would give a lasting boost to our clannishness—with incal
       
  
  

anne culable effects.

bite * i

eae 4 ~Those students whose memory goes back to the good old Majestic
een nights when Dal ran rampant, we do not need to urge. Since then,
ae last year’s graduation play has shown, we have learned not to throw
T flour and hens. We can go to the theatre with clean hands—as the
i: : lawyers say—combining the old enthusiasm with the new discretion.
~~ -—s- Let us do this! All that we lack is a leader. Come on, members of the
ance Council! earn your indemnities! Set a date and lend your prestige
pe - ;

ys to Theatre Night 1926.

 

 

e  Firelight

~ When I would gain my heart's desire
I sit beside an open fire.
| ees And all the things I’ve wished for most
ete Pour down the chimney of my house
While all the other things take flight
Up the chimney out of sight.
The fire shadows change the walis
from plaster while to Dersian shawls
Of glowing gold and dull, warm red.
The shabby, carpet, tightly spread,
As Eastern prayer rug seems to be,
Its vivid colour beckoning me.

a But though in dreams I travel wide,
, I never even glance outside,

ke : For darkness presses closer, close
fs ee ei Against the windows of my house.
2 And when I open my front door
: It creeps along my gorgeous floor.
It laughs, too, my lovely shawls
. Which-turn again to cold bare walls.
=) So when I most would go away,

5h Then closer to the fire I stay;
it - .»~ While darkness comes and wails in vain
Ce ate Then, silent, slips away again.

'

—

 

ai

4
a
'
we
Pa

Patronize Your Advertisers!

 

“in touch”.

DAI-HOUSIE GAZETTE

  

» MODEL MINUTE KEEPER

ie
ae

4
——

 
   
   
   
   
     
     
   
     
   
  

 
 
     
 
   
   
   
     
   
 
      
      
 
    
 
 

 
    

     

 

 
 

We prini below an extract from the minutes of the D. A. A. C.—an account
of Acadia’s first visit to Dalhousie—when President

Mackenzie was te Secretary.

page you will find

On another
an account of Dal
houste’s latest visit to Acadia.

 

 

(From the minutes of the D. A. A. C.)
November 15th, 1884
Football Match With Acadia

THE following is the account of the
match according to the ‘‘Dalhousie

Gazette’’—

‘Since, on two occasions, the Dalhousie
Football Club had enjoyed the hospitality
of the students of Acadia College, all
our boys seemed pleased when it was
announced last week that an Acadia team
was coming down to play Dalhousie on
the following Saturday. Not that we
were joyous in anticipation of a victory
over our friends, but we were glad that
we were likely to have an opportunity of
again meeting such ‘‘jolly good fellows’’
under circumstances such that we could
reciprocate the kindness which we had
received at their hands on_ previous
oceasions. Having failed to secure the
Wanderers grounds we did the next best
thing and marked out a ground on the
South Common. By the early morning
train a committee was sent down the line
as far as Bedford to meet the Acadia
team and if possible to provide them with
a luncheon so they might not be compelled to work with empty stomachs. A
large crowd of students collected at the
station to welcome the visitors and
procuring busses we drove immediately
to the grounds. At that time a strong
gale of wind was blowing from the North
to the South goal, so that it seemed
impossible to decide the match by skill
and muscle dlone. In consequence of
this the visitors were at first unwilling
to play, but as it seemed too bad to forego
the sport after coming such a long distance
they decided to try their luck, even if the
wind proved unfavorable to them.

The Acadia team was composed as
follows:—

Forwards—Prescott, Knapp, Eaton,
Covey, Wallace, Freeman, Smith, Tingley.
Quarterbacks — Cummings (Captain)
Lovitt, Walker. Halfbacks—Haley,
Magee. Back—Anderson.

The Dalhousie Team :—

Forwards+Campbell, Geo., Gammell,
Langille, Fitzpatrick, Mackenzie A. S.,
Creighton, Mackenzie D. H., Mackenzie
J. W., McLeod. Quarter Backs—Locke,
Purnam. Half Backs — Robinson, Stewart, Morrison. Back—Martin.

The “gods were propitious’’ to our
foemen, for they won the toss and chose
the north goal as that would give them the
full advantage of the breeze.

At one o'clock in the afternoon the
umpire Mr. W. Henry, called out ‘‘play”’.
‘Our team made a splendid kick off, but
the ball was carried straight into the air
by the wind and landed among our backs
again. The Acadia forwards rushed in
and the battle commenced in right good
earnest. By a splendid ground kick
Robinson drove the ball back, but it was
immediately nabbed by Knapp, who
proved to the satisfaction of our forwards

that he knew how to use his long legs to
good advantage, but he was soon forced
The scrimmages which en
sued tried the muscles of both sides to
the utmost. Our opponents were evidently not used to a really systematic
scrimmage, and yet oftentimes their
very awkwardness seemed to assist them,
for even when our backs gained possession
of the ball it was impossible to kick in the
face of the rushing wind, and although
they could easily elude the Acadia
forwards, our fleetest backs were sure to
be brought down by Cummings, Haley
and Magee.

Favored by the wind, the ball was,
again and again, for three successive
times, driven down to our goal, but the
Acadians were unable to obtain a touch
down until, putting their Backs into the
scrimmage, our men for a moment
yielded and Magee, seizing the ball from
the edge of the scrimmage, rushed it
into our goal. But when Magee failed
in his ‘try for goal’’ the ball was forced
back towards the centre of the field till
half-time was called.

After a few moments of rest and refreshment the teams changed goals and
again commenced in right good earnest
with a kick out by the Acadians. But
the wind, which had previously assisted
the Acadians, now gradually subsided,
so that it did not prove a hindrance to
them in their new goal, nor did it help us
as we had anticipated. It now appeared
to be the aim of the Acadians to kill time,
while the ball was in the scrimmage,
both sides exerted almost superhuman
strength, and so closely were our backs
pursued that it was impossible to make
their way through their opponents’ ranks.
At this time there was some magnificent
playing. Fitzpatrick and other forwards
would pass the ball to the quarters, who,
when hedged completely in by the Acadlans, would throw to Morrison or Stewart,
who in turn would pass it to Robinson,
who, having made his way with marvellous agility through the Acadian forwards and quarters, was sure to be brought
down by Haley, who seemed to be always
present where he was most needed, or
if perchance, he was not on hand, Magee
supplied his place with less skill and more
muscle.. Twice the ball was driven
through our opponents’ ranks and into
their goal, but only to be touched down
by Anderson. Then for a long time the
scrimmage centred near our opponents’
goal line. Campbell of Dalhousie and
Magee of Acadia—for their backs now
entered the thickest of the fight—formed
the rallying points for their respective
sides, but eventually Creighton grasping
the ball after it left the scrimmage rushed
it into their goal and cried ‘‘touch"’, but
before the umpire came up through the
excited throng, he was seized by Prescott
who claimed a ‘“‘maul"’. It was granted
by the umpire and the excitement became intense. It was an unequal match
for Creighton lay underneath his heavy
antagonist, and, after a manly struggle
yielded up the -ball-to Prescott who touched itin his own goal.

_ In the rush which followed the kick out,
Stewart came into sudden collision with
Cummings, the cheek bone of the former
was very badly fractured, while the latter
received an ugly cut on the temple.
(Continued on page 6.)

October 21st, 192

Dalhousie Men of Letters

Rey. Gordon Dickie, Vancouver, B. SS.
is writing a history of Presbyterianism in
the Maritime Provinces.
* * *
Roy MacNutt, B. A. ’16 M. A., ‘24
LL.B, '21 and Mrs. MacNutt have gone
to Cambridge, Mass. Mr. MacNutt is
continuing his studies in law at the
Harvard Law. School. Mrs. MacNutt,
(Janet Farquharson) is taking classes in
modern languages.
pee & Rs pu ee
@ Rey. W. T. Townsend, B. A. ‘11 completed his studies for Ph.D., at Harvard
last spring and took a good degree. He
studied the early history of the church;
his thesis was on Pope’s Symmachus.
He was married to Miss Ollie Tolson who
studied music at Dalhousie in 1918.
Mr. Townsend has a parish in New
England.
* * *
Arthur Jewitt has gone back to the
University of Alberta to teach for a year
under Dr. Broadus in the Department ol
English. ees
F. Millett Salter, who has been pursuing
his studies in English at the University
of Chicago for some time, has been
appointed as an assistant in the department.
x oe Ok
J. A. Bentley, who is assistant professor
in the Department of English, University
of Saskatchewan, spent his vacation in
France, making extensive tours in the
Chateau District and the South.

 

'THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

 

Who was it that said, ‘““The Freshettes

are the belles of Dalhousie’’?
*x * *

The scheduled inter-faculty football
fixtures to have been played on Thursday
between the Dents and Law was postponed as weather conditions indicated a
‘““wet’’ game.

oe Ss

A one worded telephone conversation.

Robaire:—Hello.
She:—Hello.
Robaire:—Studying?
She:—No.
Robaire:—Terrible.
She :—Nasty.
Robaire:—Show ?
She:—Sure.
Robaire:—When?
She:—Tonight.
Robaire:—Fine.
She:—Thanks.
Central:—Nickel.
Robaire:—Damn.
She:—Hello.
Central :—Gone.

* * *

 

 

 

 

 

Freshette;—‘‘Some of those rude professors, speak so loudly in class that one
can scarcely carry on conversation in
even the back seats.”’

With the schooner races and the
World Series games now completed,
students have a wonderful opportunity
to attend a few lectures.

Certain chivalrous Pine Hill students
who served their time last year carrying
books for maidens living in the vicinity
of the residence are now reaping their
reward by driving to and from classes in a
Nash Sedan.

Plaintive plea piteously pouted in
Biology 1 Lecture room—‘‘Please sir

I can’t get it down.”’
(Meaning undoubtedly the window).
* * *

Warren Publicover, eminent journalist,
formerly associated with the Gazette,
leaves today for New York by the liner
Arabic. We understand that the Atlantic will accept some of his work.

* Kk

Bill Gunn has been married ever since
examination time 1925. It did not take
him long to put into practice the slogan
which carried him to victory at the polls
as a candidate for freshman representative.
The slogan was: Where there is Gunn
there is powder. Congratulations!

* ok OK

Tabby: (At Shirreff Hall),
marry me.

She: Would you be a bigamist? I
guess I know all about your Truro wife.

*x* * *

Professor Bennet dismissed his class
the other day, when a Freshette passed
through the hall of the Arts Building.

* #k x

Will

you

Muggs: Care to go out tonight?
She: Sure.
Muggs: Canoe?
She: I surely can.
* * #
Eddie Ross: Got any tobacco.
* ok. Ok
Max Kelloway:
“Harbor Grace and Carbonnear,
Take I dere! Oh. take Oi dere’”’
* * &

Prof. Gowanloch:—‘‘The~ Notochord
may be simply described as:—A dorsal,
exial, medial, longitudinal, skelital rod
of cartillaginous connective tissue.”

* * *
The rose is red,
Skies are blue.
Horses neck
And so do’ you!
   
   
   

 

essive nights at the] j =
dded to yeas was the] >
sh became only apparent | [
tion Dance. Each vied

recounting how little sleep
‘the previous night, while

  
 

 
          
  

 
  
  
 
  

¥

    
  
 

_takes a girl home.

    
     
  
 
 

  
  
 
 

nting his age-worn
pee AD one.

 
  
   

| missed the Ferry.
eing the gigantic Byrne aboard,
* Freee | Sato al oe
rest of the troupe scramble
ft The far-famed Halifax

A
oo

  
 
  
 
 
  

  
 
 
  

ime a that night.
and Sout est
cautiously toward

e

   

   

outh Western fice proceeded
the thriving town of

  
 

     
   
   

 
     

dollars for that afternoon's labour.
performance was a marked success and
SORE te | our audience was a most-appreciative one.
At Chester the low, guarded voice of | 4" invitation was extended to the party
olonel Prideaux, who had been proph-|t© attend a dance.
- esying futures brilliant or mediocre for sean and everyone had _a most
nr each member of the caste in turn, was enjoyable time except perhaps “Stevie,

: the excited voice of Miss| Who having conquered a fair partner was

interrupted by : ;
eee “hic desti d been | looking forward to a pleasant walk in the
Mills. This woman of destiny had been moonlight. As they reached the outer

mf Piven pines ee Rogie ee door of the hall “‘Stevie’’ was heard to say,
begged to be married, in accents loud. “which way, my dear?” “Oh! | live here,’
Be) os hee the train maved On again she spied the said the fair one as she threw him a kiss
oD .ce foe conducto® and before the eyes of the and tripped lightly up_ the adjoining
-_ awe-stricken assemblage she hurled him } Stairway. ; eu ;
ee proposal. Game man that he was, he| Early the next morning, still jaded from
accepted without a murmur—and arrange-| the effects of three successive nights,
ments for the wedding were immediately | the troupe hustled to the station, several
pica made. Soom the strains of the wedding showing the unmistakable signs of having
| —s march were to be heard from Charles | hurriedly dressed. Each member of the
——s#Beckwith’s ‘‘musical saw” and the bride | caste will recall the people of Lunenburg
> 6g the arin of Professor Bennet, staggered with warm hearts and warm stomachs (?)
~. down the aisle. She was attended Ee the }and remember Lunenburg itself as a
_ Misses Pearson and MacKinnon, but ro|!and overflowing with good-will and
one saw fit to assist the bridegroom to his Good-Cheer.
_. doom. Alone he awaited the Rev. Mr.| Bridgewater Entertains—Doc Byrne
Spalding, who in the baggage car was 7 Stars ;
vainly searching his ‘goods and chattels’’ During the short run to Bridgewater
for ‘‘the Forms of Service.” The unique | we were entertained again by the Colonel
ceremony performed, divorce was immed-| who repeatedly pointed out the faults
en ee? and perfections of the performance the
night before. As the engineer hastily
applied the brakes to avoid passing the

     

    

=

   

yd
“aw
a Ay
“er x

 
 
 

      
    
 

2

        
    
   

  
    

       
 

    
       
   

    
       
     
        
     

    
      
      
   

    

_ jately granted by Messrs. Godsoe and
 Outhit our legal advisers and ‘Gert’
was satisfied because she had had a thrill:

   
 

      
  
   
   
   
  
 
 

   
  
   

 '‘THE PASSIONATE RUSTIC TO
_-HISLADY LOVE.

ee:

 

    
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
    
   
    
  
    
  
  
   
  
  
   
    
     
   
    
   

: oveiislikea Clydesdale built _ CHAPTER 1.
safety, not for speed, “Ready, Dick?”
(oudly’ at the Eventide “Where, Tom?"

inneys for her feed.

Re

: . eben
bouncing belle. |. Ate we all here?” asked Harry Rollo
os peeeciog: ee (foritwashe), ae

Reagan. lose kes “Let me see,” said Dick seriously,
thie d “two and two are four, and Germany is.
‘ruined, and so’s your old man, so we

sae.

arm

| must be all here.” .
"IT guess some people don’t think we're
all there, ‘‘said Tom merrily; and the
boys rolled about the floor in paroxysms
of laughter. Tom would have his little
joke, so that people often sought him out
—sometimes with bloodhounds.

‘Well here we are,” said Tom, as usual,
“at _Merriwell Hall on the day of the big
football match against Madagasgar High.”’

“Sure enough,’ admitted Dick, ‘‘and

L a farm, away from harm, —
happy be and merry. .

| be my dove, my darling

d. Love,
aundry and my dairy.

Pehl ek —H. A.D. the Emperor of Brobdingnag is with us.’’
pat oe a ° ““He’s a nice chap,” said Harry.
—— | “Oh he’s immense,” chuckled Tom,

and the boys laughed loud and long.
CHAPTER 4}

The youths then called the Emperor
and climbed up on his shoulder. Tom
‘drove’, playfully hauling the Emperor’s
ears as though they were levers on a
machine. They soon came to the campus
where the game had just started, after

Canucks boast of fair Alberta,

With its never ending suns,
-,-s Others think the climate matchless
we Where the swift Pembina runs.

_ ———- The fruits of Okanogan

_ Are like nectar of the gods,

And “The Singer of the Kootenay”’
Its peerless beauty lauds.

SATURDAY night comes at last,
signalized in the minds of Canadian

youngsters and oldsters as well, by two
things, the weekly bath and the funny

--—-- But the exile turns with gladness
From its rills and mountains grand,
_. For there breathes no man so heartless
_ As to spurn his native land.

As I rode the Western prairies paper. No home is complete on that
_ Where the winds course wild and free, | night without its one or more pink or
Still my heart was fondly turning white, gandily decorated sheets depicting
me _ To the province by the sea. the pranks of the ‘‘Katzenyammer Kids,”
peat evan) So he: “Mutt and Jeff,” or ‘Mr. and Mrs,’’
 _. Abegweit is softly lying, and it is not the children alone who enjoy
. Resting calmly on the waves them. The grown ups, half ashamed, read
; In the shelter of fair Scotia them on the sly and grin sheepishly and
_ Whose shores the Atlantic laves. delightedly, while others enjoy them
agian: openly and frankly. Why is it that these
___ There the ocean breeze goes playing, | bits of colored nonsense have such an
Re __ Far more bracing than chinook, appeal to children and sober minded

- _ There the mariner finds harbor adults as well?
ss Jn every sheltered nook. Let us take an old standby of many
Re begs +> set ae 7 years, the Katzenjammer Kids, depicting
~~: Summer decks the land in splendour, | the antics of papa, mamma, the professor,
—~—s Bud and flower, leaf and cone; Hans and Fritz. To father there is
Autumn maples deck the hillsides unbounded satisfaction. He is a_ kid
-_ Flaunting colors all their own. once more, playing those kiddish pranks

over again. They are a marked exaggeration of his wildest deeds as a small
boy, and so he likes them. But as an
adult his interest lies deeper. Have you
noticed how often after committing some
mischief the kids meet with punishment,

  
 

a ‘here oes rule the conduct

__ And the wisdom of the sage
Sees the course of freedom widening

Slowly down from age to age.

  
   
  
    

    

Not in vain Acadia beckons, summary and severe. Here then is
___ And my steps are eastward bent their chief appeal to father. How often
Till the murmur of the ocean © when his own children have been bad has
Fills my soul with sweet content. he fairly ached to obey Solomon’s in0. Pe junction. But modern ideas of child
the ardor of my first love, — upbringing, restraint of temper, and the

‘n now to its breast

 
    
    

influence of his. wife have effectually

well that Nova Scotia, prevented it. Now he can see children

land of all, the best. — : | treated for their sins in the way he was
ASS, yt 5b treated perhaps, and in the one which
Z  —C.B.M. | quite often appeals to his instincts.

| Hence these pictures soothe him, serve

morning e T)a ieee
ere : 2 ; :

Bill Clarke Earns Five Dollars: Stevie

a Pee At Lunenburg we were met by a host
just at the sound of | Of friends who spared neither time nor

energy in making our stay an enjoyable
After being taken to their several
homes, we re-assembled at the Oddfellows’ Hall- where we were to perform
Our stage manager with a
face, longer than usual, informed us that
there was not sufficient scenery, so the
members of the caste and even Hayes
went to work to complete the setting.
Bill Clarke still swears he is owed Sak
The

The whole caste
a most

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

~

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

the seat in front of us, but we hurriedly
pulled ourselves together and ‘left the
train. ‘“‘Aub'’ Tupper, “Bun” Barnaby
and other Dalhousians took charge of our
party. They almost swept us off our
feet with kindness. They spared no
effort in making our stay one that we
shall long remember. Each member of
the party was royally entertained.

Although we cannot relate in detail
all of the many incidents that. occurred
it would be unfair to the student body
who sponsored our play, not to recall
some of the most interesting ones. Perhaps the highest peak attained in all our
performances was when ‘‘Doc”’ Byrne in
a fit of exceptional violence, kicked the
unfortunate Spalding’s band box high
above the view of the audience, only to
have it fall over the clergyman’s head
and then gently roll off into the orchestra.
The great burst of applause which followed
this incident only gradually fell away to
be renewed almost immediately when
the same pompous gentleman in ‘“gently’’
returning the retiring clergyman’s ‘‘goods
and chattels,"’ knocked the piano lamp
to the floor, transfixed the door with
his ‘‘shower-stick’’ and splattered the
scenery with that bilious gentleman's
blood orange. A few awful. ‘moments
were experienced by those behind the
scenes when ‘‘Magonet”’ apparently having
decided that the act was going flat
decided to improve his own part by an
original mode of acting. - The result to us
was hideous.

Harry Acquires a Crush

But let us recall some of the events

which were expecially interesting to the
members of the caste. Ed. Murray
who had decided, that, if cigarettes

cannot be borrowed they must be bought,
actually went to get some. He entered
the drug store and found there Harry
Bell, our usually diligent ‘‘Master of

 

No. 1 The Rollo Boys at the Fray—

or
| The King of Brobdingnags Attends a

Football Metch
(Sincere apologies to Corey Ford, Esq.)

 

the caretaker had tolled the bell; but
what he told the bell is a secret, so we can’t
tell you. Sorry!

~ The Emperor was very excited and
stamped his foot, taking a corner off the
dormitory and crushing four motor-cars
and a few Fords in so doing. He worked
himself into such a frenzy that he was
just going to step on the Madgasgar team
when the whistle blew for half-time.

“Are you going to be long here?’’
Dick asked the Emperor.

“He’d be long anywhere,” laughed |
Tom, in his fun-loving manner.

Just then the game started again.

“Come on you Merriwell,’’ shouted the
Emperor in a voice which frightened |
half the spectators into fainting spells’
The Merriwell Picking Quarter seized the
ball and moved hurriedly towards the
Madagasgar touch-line.

“Look, there’s Dan Baxter,” cried’
Harry, ‘‘what’s he up to? My goodness, !
he’s moving the touchline back.”’

‘Stop him,’’ shouted Dick earnestly.

as an outlet for his feelings and cheer him |
up generally.

Mother, as a rule, does not take such
an interest in the ‘‘Kids’’ as the rest of the
family, but now and then she does.
Generally it is when the Captain is
badly handled by his enraged spouse.
Here again the element of personal
satisfaction comes into play.

But to the children this group appeals
most of all. Their instincts have been
less modified, less curbed, by years,
education and social training. The Professor is an old man with a long beard,
symbolic of age and authority, something
for which there lingers an innate sense of
rebellion in the youthful heart. No
wonder then that the children scream with
delight when fhe old gentleman’s beard
is shorn from him by his youthful tormentors, or he put to scorn in some
ridiculous way. Notice how rarely the
Kids trouble Mrs. Katzenjammer. Here
is the linking up of the male children
instinctively on the side of the mother,
and the antagonism to the father on whom
they heap all the indignities possible.

Running thru our Comics in general
some prominent features show up. The
prominence of the long nose, symbolic of
virility, such as you find in Mutt, overcome by the brute force of his spouse.
You find this page of special interest to
women, and in the case of a picture in
which Jeff is the victor, to small, weak
men.

I think of all the comics, the most
general appeal is in ‘“‘Mr. and Mrs,” at
least for the grown ups. There husband
and wife see their little pet foibles and
fancies ‘‘shown up” in a ridiculous light.
The author makes both sides of the case

ete a a a  * |

1e Private Secretary’ Abroad |

, Ft Fd PE Pe 6 Ee ee SF PG Pg ee ee Fe ee es Pe ee @

town we were all tlung to our feet or over| Props,’’ who had been absent all after
A pair of blue eyes under a bobbed
head were attracting all of Bell's attent
noon.

ion, and Murray after waiting a few
minutes left without having been seen,
and minus his cigarettes. He hurried
back to the theatre to tell with fiendish
delight what he had seen but was somewhat taken aback when Professor Bennet
casually remarked, ‘‘Oh, that’s all right.
Gert and I introduced them at noon.”’

Our energetic manager staged a dance
that night after the play. It was enjoyed
by many others as well as the members
of our party. Bill was heard to say that
he cleared $2.50 on the dance. Be that
as it may, none of the rest of us ever saw
any of that easy money.

Having no further engagements that
week we returned to Halifax. The
following Monday we took the Sydney
Express to New Glasgow. If we had
been treated royally on the “south
shore’’ we were treated ‘‘extra-royally’’
in Pictou County. The news of our late
successes had outpaced us. On arriving
we were made to feel that had a band
been available it would have been playing,
“Hail, Hail, the Gang’s All Here,’—
but there was no band.

The performance that evening proved
to be the most successful of our trips.
Our audience, the largest we had had
except in Halifax was most appreciative.
James A, for once agreed with the ‘‘News,”’
in praising us most highly—nay more,
he even outdid that New Glasgow daily,
by calling special attention to Godsoe’s
courting scene; but, also, we suspect
that this was supposed to have a dint of
sarcasm attached, but Godsoe couldn't
see that tint.

Tuesday we were shown the beautiful
scenery of Trenton, Westville and other
nearby towns and the members of the
caste were loud in their expressions of
gratitude and praise. Our performance

The Rollo Boys Series for Young Gentlemen

“Don’t worry,” said the Emperor,
“T’ll help you’’; and picking Dan Baxter
up between his thumb and fore-finger he
dropped him into a laundry vat on the
other side of the town.

“Dan’s in hot water now,’’ said Tom
with a twinkle in his eye, and the Emperor thought it was just too good!

CHAPTER 68

The Picking Quarter dashed across the
line, just as the whistle blew, winning
the game for Merriwell to the tune of
The Prisoner’s Song; and the faithful
battleship Oregon steamed up the campus,
its bilges lined with sailors.

‘Three cheers for the Rollo Boys and
the Emperor of Brobdingnag!" they
shouted lustily.

The cheers were given with a will, and
the contents of that will and how it
affected our young heroes will be related
in the next volume of this series, to be
entitled:

“The Rollo Boys in the Never-Never
Land; or, How Tom Made an A in his
Theme Work,”

And here let us say Good-Bye,
‘‘Good-Bye”’

—WoOG2A,

eo.

(The foregoing is a freshman theme. It

received a ‘'D"’.)

 

 

The Psychology of the Comic Supplement

about equal and so maintains interest
from week to week. The Katzenjammers
have enjoyed popularity for nearly twenty
years, I think due to their great instructive
appeal. Properly managed, ‘‘Mr. and
Mrs,”’ should lastZequally as long.

Sothat we see from the above very
superficial glances at our old favorites
that there is some reason for our genuine
amusement at and interest in
“‘funnies."’ Only look a little more
carefully and you will find many, many
more things cropping up which acting
on our minds fulfil
conscious, or acts as a method of working
off a mental conflict, thus giving us peace
and pleasure combined.

sor Fea Ss

crescent of Allah’s prophet

the |

a wish, often sub- |

 

I WONDER WHAT’S BECOME OF
SALLY

WE want torun a special column

for the ‘‘perfect %26’’. Will all
absent members please communicate
with the Gazette and tell us ‘‘How
you are, where you are, and if you are
all alone.’’ In other words we want
to keep in touch with all the members

of Class ’26. When you meet each
other write and tell us about it!

It was a Scottish schoolboy, we think,
who, when asked to translate ‘‘De
Mortuis nil nisi bonum,” replied—‘‘In
the dead there’s nothing but bones.’’
It may have been the same boy who
rendered ‘‘pax in bello’ as ‘“‘freedom from
indigestion,”

—By Courtesy of J. C.

|

 

  

Page Three

 

        
  

that night was a repetition of our other
successes; we were entertained that night
at a dance. Several of our members
disapproved and were seen no more that
night. Hayes remembered that one of
our lady members had vowed that she
was going to commit an “indiscretion” as
she called it, before she went home. Next
morning Bill Clarke told of how a party
of them had driven down to see the
cottages at Little Harbour, and we all
wondered what they could have seen at
that hour of the night.

The Party Breaks Up.

Wednesday our party broke up, feeling
elated at our success but with more than
a little touch of sorrow at the thought of
separating. We, who had worked and
played together for so long would be
widely scattered within the next few
hours. Some of us had graduated and
would not return to college in the fall.
““Doc”’ Byrne, knowing that his college
days were over, could not bring himself to
leave this town, the scene of our last
successes and it is reported that he did
not return to his home in Dartmouth for
some days.

“The Private Secretary’’ was the only
play that the Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society produced in recent years.
Every place we went we were exceptionally
well received. It was a success financially
and we were able to turn over to the
Students’ Council some hundreds of
dollars. Our success, although due in
no small measure to the efforts of each
member of the caste would have been
impossible had it not been for the almost
ceaseless and patient work of Colonel
Prideaux. We must also give deserving
praise to Professor Bennet and to Mrs.
Pearson who were allied with him in its
production. Harry Bell the stage manager and master of props was untiring in
his efforts. Credit is due him far in
excess of the thanks he received.

Let us also bring to attention the fact
that although the Senate were much
concerned about the scholastic welfare
of those who spent so much time in
preparing the play for production, only
one pluck was recorded among the whole
crowd,

COLOR

You may think the gold of thy hair attracts
The blue of thy flashy eye—

But colors like these don’t always pleaseFor ladies pass them by.

You may put your faith in a !ip’s red roseA cheek tan as autumn’s bills—

Tis a co-ed’s fact that no colors attract;
Save the “‘green’’ of a fellow’s bills!

FIRDAUSI
(935—1020)

THREE hundred years after the battle

of Nihavand, in which the eagle of the
Persian military standard sank before the
and the
Mohammedan sword, there was born in
the little town of Tusin Khorasan, a poor
boy whose name was Abulgqasim Hasan,
but who soon became famous under the
name of ‘‘Firdausi,’’ meaning: Paradise.
It is said that this flattering name was
given him by Sultan Mahmud bimself,
to whose court he came when still a young
man, to compete with three others for
the position of chief epic poet. The
vacancy had occurred through the brutal
murder of Dagqiqi, the heroic bard who
lived long enough to sing a thousand
immortal lines, and who lost his life in
daring to write in favour of the old time
Persian faith. Firdausi won the contest
and won such high approval that Mahmud
promised him a gold piece for each line
he composed. It is this liberality which
called forth Firdausi’s splendid and
gigantic epic poem, the Shah Namah, the
Book of Kings, only eclipsed by the
fierce savageness of the scathing satire
which the aged poet later poured out
against his royal patron, in revenge for
being cheated of the reward that was to
crown his great work.

When he had written the last line of the
Shah Namah, it consisted of sixty thousand rhyming couplets, and Firdausi,
than a septuagenarian, looked for the
reward of his life’s work. But through
jealousy and intrigue on the part of others
seeking court-favour, the Sultan was
induced to send him sixty thousand
dirhems, instead of the promised gold.
On finding out the deception, Firdausi
scornfully refused the gift, and divided
the money among the elephant-drivers
who had brought it to htm.

Thereupon Firdausi wrote his famous
satire against Mahmud and left the town,
fleeing for his life. For ten long years he
was an exile at the court of a prince of
Iraq, who extended to him his friendly
protection, and it is there that the aged
singer wrote his last great poem, Yusuf
and Zulikha, a romantic poem nearly
as long as the Iliad.

Firdausi was eighty years old when he
decided to return to bis home in Khorasan.
A sad tale is told of his death there of a
broken heart. Hearing of Firgausi’s
return the Sultan repented; but too late:
the caravan of camels, laden with costly
gifts and the sixty thousand gold pieces
encountered, on approaching Tus, a
funeral cortege coming out of the city
gate, bearing the remains of Persia’s
great national poet to the grave.

His tomb at Tus is still a place of pious
pilgrimage.

=P, L. He Ms
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
    
 

—

LMOST the first time I saw him
‘trudging along the street towards my
ise, I felt there was something unusual
out my friend the old postman. In
e weather he would trot along quite
iskly—sometimes whistling a gay little
r turning to admire an exceptionally
utiful cluster of flowers in a wayside
rden. But in wet weather, when the
ing rain slashed mercilessly down
upon him, he would look rather dejected
plodding up the street under the envelopng shininess of his dripping rain-cape.

 

   
 
   
 

ee ” Yet he was epi cherful—as if - were
philosophically expecting something to
i - turn up—like Mr. Micawber; and, some——s times, when I caught his eye with its
faintly perceptible twinkle, I felt certain
that he must be fully alive to the engross
    
 

Th
%

ing interest which his occupation seemed

Fe to offer—to me at least.

 
    
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 

-" . Zz

c |  FOSsT

_* young

So, one day (I think I must have been
feeling a bit romantic) I said to him:

ue o “Mr. Kelly, do you ever stop to ponder

on your wonderful postbag with its
: fascinating load of missives from many

~ a far distant land? What tales. of joy,

of hatred, sorrow and every other human

they could tell! And what

   

emotion

 

_ The fellowjng little account will perhaps, give some of the venturous
y chaps, who are starting out in
civil engineering, some idea of the risks
that they will have to undergo while
practising their profession and I might
say that this is absolutely true.

* One of the main branches of civil

engineering, as you probably know, is the

- location and construction of railways;
of which two, the former is possibly the
most dangerous and it is with this branch
that we are concerned. The locating
party may consist of anywhere from
five to thirty men, depending on the size
and nature of the work to be undertaken.
About half of the men are woodmen and
- eanoemen, the other half being made up
of engineers, chainmen, rodmen and

members of the cook’s department.

-——-—s Right from the start, which is often

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
   

 

 
  
 
  
    
  
 
 

    
  
   
 
 

     
 

the end of steel, the party is in the wilderness, absolutely cut off from civilization.

often suffer from

_ They must live in tents, m
hh 2 the difficulty of

—« hunge: account of
gettin

   

soaking wet from fording streams; in
the summer the black flies and mosquitoes are enough to oN even the angel
Gabriel into a rage, while in the winter
the cold will often make grown men

—that is literally true for I have
myself. In many cases, the

  

members of a location survey party are
_ the real explorers of a virgin country,
Greet is seldom that they are given the
dit for it by the Geographical Societies.
he incident which I am about to describe, took place on a location survey for
a proposed railway line through the
' Rockies. On the party was a young
Eaehee, engineer, fresh from the university
and most painfully ‘‘green” about everything concerned with the ‘‘backwoods’’
life of Canada. He was acting as what
is known as rear-picket, his duty being
to hold a spear-like rod, painted red and
white in alternate bands, on a given point
for the instrument-man to sight on.

_ As he is junior to everyone on the party
and as he has comparatively little work
to do, he brings up the rear, carrying his
rod. and also the finches, water-pail and
any other cooking paraphernalia which
may be wanted for that day. In this
case, the party being a large one, the
young chap was carrying fifteen largesized lunches for fifteen men with largesized appetites and as I think anyone who

- has ever had to “pack” lunches, will
agree, he had a pretty heavy load.

 

et

He gave his ‘‘shot’’ on the required
point and started off as soon as he got the
engineer’s signal to ‘‘come ahead.”
Between the instrument and the point
was a small canyon, only about four
hundred yards wide, but nevertheless,
it necessitated a detour of about a mile.
‘The engineer waited, more or less patiently, for about an hour and then beginning to get a little worried, started off
to look for his missing assistant. This
was about nine o'clock in the morning and
when by noon, there was still no sign of the
absentee, the engineer was seriously
alarmed, to say nothing of being hungry,
and called the whole gang together to
help in the search.

_Five days later, after practically combing the surrounding country, they found
him; a raving lunatic, weak from hunger
and thirst, with fifteen mens’ lunches
still og to his back absolutely
untouched, lying beside a pool of water,
not a half mile from where he had started
out originally.

He was carried back about fifty miles
to the nearest town and sent toa hospital
_- where he recovered his senses after some
three months treatment. He has since
given up engineering and is now a traffic
policeman on one of the busiest corners
in Montreal. He may be killed there
but never again will he take the chance
of being lost in the bush. |

= S.

‘stamps have seen.

 

 

~

> Truth Were Known

(Noveleite)

strange and colorful scenes of foreign lands
and peoples their many-hued postage
Here is a_ trave
stained envelope which has lived in the
magical velvety blackness of the heavilyscented tropical night—vibrant with the
songs of myriads of darting insects as
they float in clouds through the dense
exotic vegetation. There again, 1s another which has felt the drugging noonday beat of the endless desert with its
hopeless monotony of ever on-rolling
dunes—perchance colored splashily here
and there by a gaudily-garbed Arab on
his camel which lunges clumsily on with
rhythmical rolling sinuousness. This Italian stamped posteard has basked in the
brilliant Riviera sunshine and seen the
wondrous sapphire-sparkling Mediterranean or perhaps Venice, with her sweetlycaroling gondiliers deftly manoeuvering
their dainty craft through many a
mysterious waterway.
“But such vistas—vivid as they are—
melt into insignificance as one cogitates
upon the contents of those letters. What
a limitless field for the dreamer and the
story weaver!”

“There” (you can see I was really
getting quite feverish by this time) ‘‘may

 

A short meeting of the Engineering
Society was held on October 15th. The
first matter was quickly decided that the
society back the D. A. A. C. by providing
meals for the engineering players in
interfaculty football. The next thing
was not so easy. It was hea a out that
one of the original aims of the Society was
for the members to read papers of general
interest before the meetings and it was
proposed to revive this. Much discussion
ensued, but it was finally decided that
some of the more fortunate (?) members
would be allowed to exert their powers
of oratory at the expense of their fellows
at a coming meeting. With this matter
settled, the entry of football and track
teams decided, and the committees for
the Dance making progress the Engineers
are well away for a varied and successful
year.

Must a Politician Be a
Crook?

- nine days out of ten are THE Sodales Debating Society will

hold, on Wednesday the twenty
‘seventh at eight o’clock a debate on the
resolution: ‘That a politician can not be
successful without being a crook.”’

The
debate will be conducted after the
Oxford fashion and after those appointed
to open the debate have finished, the
meeting will be thrown open. Misses
Avis Marshall and Eveleen Burns will
open the debate for the affirmative and
Messers Rod McLeod and A. H. McKinnon the negative. Misses Marshall and
Burns both debated against Mt. St.
Bernard last year and both have
pronounced ideas on the condition of
Canadian politics. ‘‘Roddie’’ McLeod
debated against Mt. Allison last year.
His friends prophesy that he will some day
take a prominent part in public life, so
his opinions on the question of political
morality, are bound to be interesting.
Mr. A. H. McKinnon is a newcomer to
Dalhousie having graduated last year
from St. Francis Xavier. He is now
taking first year law at Dalhousie. He
has debated against Kings, Mt. Allison
and last year against the Imperial team.
The debate of Wednesday next will be
his first public appearance at Dalhousie.

Promises to Prove Big
Sensation

**Aloma”’

A young American on a South Sea
Isle—drinking himself right down to the
gutter. A brown-skin dancer who adores
him because he once defended her.
Tropical nights—the surf pounding away
—and love.

Enter a native who longs for the girl.
He swears nengeance if anything should
happen to her. Then along comes an old
sweetheart, now married to the lad’s
best friend. What happens? Remember
—there are sharks—who ‘“‘prefer white
meat to brown’’—sharks in the lagoon.
And raging tempests. South Sea dances
and—oh well—one has to see ‘‘Aloma of
the South Seas”’ to appreciate it.

This picture which comes to the Casino
on Monday next marks Gilda Gray’s
debut as a Paramount star. The cast
includes such players as Percy Marmount,
Julanne Johnston, William Powell and
Warner Baxter.

  
  
  
     
 
  
 
 
      

  
    
  
   

Clothes Seen at the Colleges
Suits, Overcoats
and Furnishings

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W. FE. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.

HALIFAX

  
  
  
    
   
    
   
  
  
    
 

   
     
  
    
       

 

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

be the voluminous screed of some lover—
‘ “sighing like furnace’’ '—whose ardent

1} expressions of intense longing for his

absent lady-love fill many a _ closely
written page. Again, we may see the
dutiful missive of some verdant freshman
to his fond parents in which he makes a
piteous appeal for twenty paltry dollars
to buy French books and a seat. in the
Library—the freshy-Soph dance being
scheduled for the next week, by the
merest chance. Down lower, perhaps,
some cruel relentless landlord hurls the
blow of immediate eviction upon some
miserable family—all for the sake of a
few wretched dollars. And here, alas!
may be an envelope upon whose milkwhite smoothness has fallen the tears of
a broken-hearted gray-haired mother who
pleads in faltering script with a wayward
son. And so I might go on forever
weaving my tales. But tell me, Mr.
Kelly what do YOU think about as you
go about delivering this wonderful cargo
of yours?

“My feet’? he answered; and looking
despondently but resignedly down at
them, he shuffled off.

— PC. PB.

 

Knows He Knows
Nothing

We have now in this University about
eight hundred students, presumably bent
upon becoming educated men and women.
The greater number of these people are
quite sure of why they want an education,
but very few of them know what this
education is to be, or have any criterion
by which to judge when they have achieved their purpose. Many will leave
the University uneducated, often because
they do not know what to seek in their
studies.

A prominent American educator has
given the five tests of an educated man,
and it might be of value to every student
—Senior and Fresnman alike—to analyse
himself according to these standards and
to find how far his education has progressed.

As given by President Butler, of Columbia University, these tests are:—

1. Correctness and precision in the use
of the mother tongue.

2. Refined and gentle manners which
are the expression of fixed habits of
thought and action.

3. Power and habit of reflection.

4. Power of growth.

 

Will Back D.A.A.C.|A Tour of Halifax With Our

Advertisers

BEFORE beginning our trip around

this o!d historic city the students are
requested to read this carefully, making
mental note of the firms mentioned here
and trying when possible to confine their
buying to only those mentioned; saying
when they make their purchase that they
are students. For then that will help
our advertisers who make the publications
of the Gazette possible. We will now
start from the Studley Gates and walk
down Coburg Rd. The first stop is
Rupert Freemans. The genial Rupert
with his ever ready smile runs the drug
store on the corner of Henry street. We
then stop at MacLeod and Balcom’s.
This drug store is one of the largest in the
city. Our next hop is a ong one and
takes us to MacDonald Hardware store.
If you want hardware here is the nearest
place to get it. Then comes Blakeleys.
To say much about Blakeleys is to waste
words, for everybody knows the place.
Across the street is Jensen & Mills, who
sell things more interesting to Shirreff
Hall than to boys of Dal. Gauvin and
Gentzel will take a picture of anybody
or anything, and also have a 24 hour
service for your films. Next door is
Faulkner’s Book Store where you can
get anything in the line of books or
stationary and is the nearest post office
to the College. Crossing the street we
come to Publicover’s. If you want a
haircut we'll wait for you down town.
Walsh’s drug store is our next stop.
Walsh carries everything you might
expect to find in a drug store which is
about everything. At last we are on
Barrington St. having passed by the
Tech and the County Jail without a stop.
Walking down stairs in the Majestic
Building we find Bob Johnson already
hard at work on some Dal boys and girls
and as we don’t intend to have a haircut
until the Law Dance we continue onwards.
Wallace the optician is next. If the
Freshettes have caught your eye too
strongly, he is the man to fix you up.
And now we have a surprise in store for the
girls. The Carol shop is something new
in Halifax and a Dal girl can be quite
confident that she can get anything she
wants in lingerie and hosiery at the
price she wants. It is worth your while
anyhow to step inside and look around.
Mr. Fraser sel'!s only goods of high priced
quality but strange to say they are not
high priced. While the girls are in the
Carol shop we will drop in the Kandy
Kastle and have something to drink.

Dalhousie Stationery

24 Sheets Writing Paper
stamped with the Dal
hogsie Crest and 24 Envelopes to match.

Special 50c Box
Connolly’s Book Shop

487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Paul’s Church.

 

Their five minutes being up we had better
leave and visit Charlie for a _ while.
We'll turn down Blower St. and go down
to Granville, and Maders is right in
front of us. The mecca for the boys
after dance or game. Maders is to Dal
boys what Delta Gamma is to the girls.
You are not a Dal man unless you have
been initiated into Mader’s. A cup of
coffee will do it. We won't go in now
becatise we're all coming down tonight,
so we had better return and find the girls.
This will be continued next week. But
before pausing it will be just as well to
mention a few of our exclusive advertisers. If you want to see a show, the
best theatres in the city are the Majestic
Casino, Strand and Imperial. This last
is a new advertiser and is well worth a
visit. George Power in the Majestic
Building carries everything in tobaccos,
all makes of cigars, pipes and cigarettes,
including scented ones for the Hallites.
If you want to keep a bank account, the
Pank of Nova Scotia and the Royal
Bank will be only too pleased to oblige
you.
To be continued next week.

She—I've decided to marry again.”
He—‘‘T thought you said you never
made the same mistake twice.”’

Life.

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention
ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Limited

“NMOL-NMOCG AYVMY
MIVM NOA Al LING
BuYU.nNoAdA AVAA AHL SI SIH_L

TOILkT SUPPLIES
CONFECTIONERY
TOBACCO

RUBBER GOODS
WHEN

Frreeman’s have ’em

COR. COBURG and HENRY

 
 

KEEP YOURSELF
LOOKING SNAPPY

at
| LEE’S
Basement Barber Shop

Let us"cut your hair every 10 days.
We cut your hair to fit your type.
We are experts.

48 Sackville St., Halifax, N. S.

   
  
  
  

 

 

Smart Oxfords
FOR MEN%

Well-dressed men know _ that
Oxfords are necessary to keep up
appearances. These very men are
the fellows you see daily at
WALLACE'S buying Oxfords and
Spats. 4. ng & pea

OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11

Wallace Bros.

427 BARRINGTON ST.
Cor. Sackville St.4ag

        
  
   
  
  
  
      
     
   
   
   
   
  

Smart Suits and
Overcoats
FOR COLLEGE MEN

$18 $20 $24

Less 10% on presentation of
D. A. A. C. ticket at

CONDON’S

BARRINGTON AND PRINCE STS.

  
    
  
     

 

   
  
  
    
     
   
   
   
 
  
   

  

 

4

a . — ae OF er
Eee eee rE rs SS
. ~ ; » = . ‘gy a “

ae. a

‘October 21st, 1926

 

5. Efficiency.

In addition to these rules there might
be added a sixth of value to Freshman
and others, an old proverb whose origin
is obscure,—‘‘The wisest man is he who
knows he knows nothing.” or

She—‘‘Bob hugged me last night.”’

Cat—‘‘Oh yes, the dear boy has become
so absent-minded since he started tackling
practise.”’

THE ONLY EXCLUSIVE

Hosiery and
Lingerie Shop

IN HALIFAX,

RUBY RING HOSIE.Y

SOLD ONLY PY

The Carol Shop

J. LLOYD FRASER, Prop.

Y. M. C. A. BLDG.
Opp. Halifax Infirmary.

 

Sports Equipment
Everything for

FOOTBALL and
BASKETBALL

Special Terms to Clubs.

MacDonald Hardware Co.
SPRING GARDEN RD.

A FRIEND OF THE
COLLEGES

The
Horning Chronicle

AND

The Ebening Echo

Compare this for value:

72 Sheets of Paper
72 Envelopes

each embossed with
Dalhousie crest.
Packed in neat box.

$1.85
FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

Nearest Stationer to your College

 

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickits
for $2.00.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N. S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

Barrington St.,
Sack. 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

 

 
nal

yer 21st, 1926

.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

DAL VISITS ACADIA

DEPENDENT ON THE Senior Fifteen Win Rugby Match in |
_ FACULTY TEAMS Spite of Last Minute Rally

Acadia 5, Dalhousie 6; Juniors Win Again
NCE more the Juniors were successfu |

__- The Editor,
— Dathousie Ga ette,
‘ s Halifax, N.S.
Be Pes ox CADIA’S last minute rally found a O
defence too strong for their efforts n showing their big brothers how it
: 1 ery and they were forced to swallow defeat | ought to be done, by defeating the Acadia
ris There has been much discussion in the | from the Dalhousie Tigers who put up a} Juniors, by a score of 6—0, on Saturday,
_ University of late on that elusive factor,| hard fight on their five yard line. Oct. 16, at Wolfville. This time the
“College — Spirit.”’ Some are of the/ From the kick off, the first périod was example of the Juniors was followed by the
opinion that college spirit in Dalhousie | fairly evenly divided,—play shifting from | Seniors who were a trifle slow of comneeds no criticism, others that there|one end to the other with no damage prehension last Saturday against the
could be an improvement. It is not my | done except to a few of the Acadians who | Wanderers.
__wish to criticise the University in any|seemed unable to with-stand the knocks! In thus winning their second straight
__~ Way, merely to express a few views, and | they received at the hands of the Tigers.| game the Juniors gave evidence of
2 davite discussion on the subject. _ | Practically every invasion made by the | possessing a powerful punch and great
ae Many of the students do not realize| Dal half line left one or more of their | recuperative powers. Lacking their brill_. the importance of backing the teams.| opponents ‘“‘hors de combat,” reaching a] iant half-liner, MacLeod, who graduated
ee _ Weare all anxious to win the City League climax when White had his nose broken|to the Seniors and with several other
_~ this year. The teams are doing their | and was replaced by Fetterley. changes in their line up, the Juniors
best, but they must have the support of | George MacLeod, the new _half-liner| shone as resplendently as ever particularly
_ the student body. The men on the| was great in this period, being principally }in their half-line work. Bayne and
_ teams give up a large portion of their | responsible for the only score of the first “Frenchy’’ MacDonald were particularly
_ time to athletics, solely for Dalhousie,| half when he picked up a loose ball, tore | effective on the half-line, A. A. MacDonald
and itis only fair that they should receive | thru the valley boys and passed to Brads- being a trifle slow by reason of a sore leg
_ the support of every student. Dalhousie|ley who plumged across for the try | but playing well all the same. Town_ shouldc ome first! ; which was not converted. Just before} send and Jones were very effective.
_. The power of advertising has been} this Rex Moore literally crushed his way In the matter of scoring, it was all
' demonstrated time and again in everyday | thru the Acadians, leaving a liking wake| Sutherland. This plunging quarter con4 life. A University is somewhat limited | behind him; to place the ball in a scoring| tributed both the touchdowns that were
in its means of advertising. It is depend- | position. Dalhousie’s only contributions to the
: vent on its graduates and its standing as a _ The second period started off auspic-| score both coming from a few yards out.
_ University.. But what we are also} iously for Dal when, about a minute after} The attempts at converting were both
_ dependent on is our Sport. Men come to| the whistle, Doc Smith finished a nice} unsuccessful and in this respect the Juniors
_ College, it is true, primarily for a degree, | half line run by going over the Dal’s/are equal sufferers with the Seniors.
but the physical side is also an important) second try. Moore made a nice try but|In two games the Juniors have secured
_ aspect of college training. This is proven | failed to convert by inches. This served|four touchdowns and have failed to
_ by the compulsory physical examination | as a stimulus to the Acadians and they | convert any of them. In two games the
of every new student entering the Univer-| responded nobly, drawing Dal to their] Seniors have scored three touchdowns
»— sity. College education is not altogether | five yard line where a merry battle was! and have converted none of them. True,
confined to the classroom. staged. After vain attempts to break] all the attempts have beer*from difficult
7 ae: Health is one of the essential things} away Dal touched for safety. Kelly was} angles, but even then the percentage of
Be an success. The best way to keep) following up well and Dal gained ground. | successes should be somewhat larger.
healthy is to keep fit. Build the body) Acadia received a free kick but matters} The score of 6—0 by no means tells the
along with the mind. Turn out for your | were squared up when the Tigers received| whole story of the game. The first
_ teams, football, hockey, or basketball.|a similar -award which netted when| period was fairly even, but the second
everybody has a chance to make the| twenty yards. Kelly still going strong in| period saw Dalhousie Tiger-cubs put it
first team. If you don’t make it this} following up. Bunker Murphy kicked] all over the Acadians. Play was almost
year, don’t be discouraged, you may} into touch placing Dal in scoring position} entirely around the Acadians goal line
next year. You may make the second! but Davidson relieved with a nice punt. {and only luck and several safety touches
team. Turn out on your Faculty andj| Moore heeled in ‘half field; then made a|saved a much bigger score. The Dal. ‘anc housie forwards had a keen nose on the
ball all the time and several kicks were
run down immediately the receiver
ee to gain often. G. Godsoe starred
ere.

-lass teams, and boost inter-class sport. / run to gain twenty yards. The Acadians
The game was marked by the utmost

 

    
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
    
 
  
  
  
 
    
   
 
  
 
  

 

ARISE IN ME

 

that Acadia cheer leader.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
   
  

yes i tec: = sees him.
__ Dear Sir:—Will you allow me space in
_ the Gazette for a few remarks?

 

than a sentimental girl on a dark night.

 

readily and more often than they seem to
Every play, an Acadian

: Say, our ‘‘spit’’ bounces!

 

and supported the team.
cely had better support at Dal. Campus.

 

drier without hurting anybody.

The a

“police force’’

 

almost

3

down effort.

—
-.4—
ry

rep lls,

 

to kick about in college.
practice for converts.

_Something to that Dal team all right.

in the stands at different times.
_Jack’s foghorn reminded us of Studley
Library.

 

Bill and Ernie wore broad smiles all the
way home.

 

You sure gave us a tough time, Acadia!
Here’s to you, though! No scraps, very
few illegitimate plays and plenty of
impartial college yelling. Here's hoping
you'll visit us down here soon—and bring
the bunch along, too.

 
 

 

The Greatest Asset of a business is
give customers what they want—

If you cannot play, turn out and learn| by a series of punts advanced to the
ie. The when they want it.

‘University is dependent | Tigers five yard after a few scrims.
sae bn ‘the class and} Dugan planted the ball behind the posts
r me giving Davidson an easy convert. Score
arse 6—5. After the kick-off the valley men

That kick of Bunker’s sure saved a lot
of heart failures coming as it did at a time
when the Acadians were pressing closer

The Sun Maid Raisin Co., should see
that the Acadians get their iron more

out. Hard? |

The boys and girls turned out in force
Murray scar
The grounds might have been a bit

arrested
Moore for speeding on his near touch
Too bad the boys haven’t something
They need the

No faint hearts there, though there were
i |

   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

canbe of ‘ College yells.

na
is £0 learn them? Not mang
attendance at the rooting practise
< - week is any indication. If any
occa, ae ent does not believe in the power of
-__ rooting let him go to Acadia, U. N. B.,
atl SUS NK any one of half a dozen Universities
and see for himself what rooting does for
== * a weary team.: —
_ There are in the University a number of
_ Societies for the benefit of the student.

 

ve a num
ny students know them, or are}

|Job and Society Printing

always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

advanced again to the five yard line
when another strenuous battle took place
giving the rooters plenty of opportunity
to exercise their lungs. Bunker Murphy
saved the day with a punt which gained
thirty yards. Play stopped till a player
could be restored to playing form and
then Bunker heeled the ball but his kick
was blocked. Play ended with the teams
battling in mid-field.

A notable feature of the game was the
fact that the Dalhousie rooters, though

of good feeling between the two sets of
rooters who gave each others’ college
yells with fine impartiality. We feel

bound to say, though, that even in the
Acadians’ own stronghold the cutting
Dal yell was heard above any din the
Acadians could make.

The referee, Mr. Havelock, gave a good
exhibition of impartial and keen directing
of pay.

 

 

THOUGHTS THAT

Some pep and a lot of new motions to
All we hope is
that no scout looking for movie types ever

 

!

|

 

Page Five

 

 
  

  
 

For the News
When it is News
Read

 
   
 

THE
HALIFAX

HERALD
AND

 
   
   
   

  

THE
EVENING
MAIL

 
    

PARAMOUNT
METRO-GOLDWIN
FIRST NATIONAL AND
UNIVERSAL CLASSICS

Imperial Orchestra
Best Music in the City.
All Seats 25c

 

Do ]
~ CASINO

This FRI. & SAT.

|
“The Teaser”

with
LAURA LaPLANTE
PAT O’MALLEY

-_)
LAST CHAPTER OF SERIAL
PILLY DOOLEY COMEDY

Next Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
GILDA GRAY
IN
Aloma of the South Seas

with
Percy Marmont -- Warner Baxter

 

   
 

Each Faculty has its own Society, and |outnumbered, were more than able to
every student in that faculty is a member | hold their own when it came to cheering
of it. The average attendance at the;the boys along. Good work Murray,

     
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
  

meetings of these societies is about
“twenty-five percent. These societies are
- yours, for your benefit, and they require
your thought and cooperation to make
them a success. Your money is being
used to run them. Cooperation, it has
been said, is the keynote of success. Let
us get busy. Attend the meetings of
your society. Back it up. Give it the
_ benefit of your ideas. At least find out
where your money is going!
Dalhousie is growing by leaps and
bounds. Let us grow with her. Let us
as students do our part to boost our
college spirit. If you think it is there,
oost it and make it better. If you
think it does not exist, don't talk about it,
get out and do what you can to make it!
We have a College here to be proud of.
Let us live up to it.
would contribute a small portion of time
and energy to boosting Dalhousie, the
results would soon make themselves felt.
~ Inconelusion, let me ask for the support
__f every member of the University at the
‘ _ football games. Dalhousie must win
this year. Give the team your support.
Learn the College yells, learn your
Faculty yell, and get out at the games and
YELL. Fight with your team, and
we'll win. Back your societies. Attend
the meetings and express your views.
They are anxious to hear what you
have to say. Let us show the people
that we have College Spirit at Dalhousie.
_--Thanking you again for space in your

Bee 2 :
53 iohe “Bill” Winfield,
Med. ’29.

ee ee

 

If every student | students

_moleskins. Lowest prices.

keep it up and the boys will get there.

Lineups—
Acadia—Forwards, Lane, G.. Titus;
S. Titus, White, MacLean, Gordon,

Hubley, Fetterley; Quarters, Davidson,
Burteaux, Dugan; halves, Estey, Wilson,
Matthews, Grady; F. Back, Elderkin.
Dalhousie: Forwards: MacLean, Baird,
Sutherland, F. Smith, A. Smith, Tupper,
Baxter; Quarters, Langstroth, Wickwire,
Dobson; Halves, MacLeod, Doc Smith,
Beardsley, Murphy; F. Back, Moore.
Referee—Dr. DeWolle.

We know others than Embryology
who are interested in chickens.

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

       
    

    
      

Same Rates 2! Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 2) cents extra.

      
 
  
   

x FOOTBALL | ) 15® per pkt.
E pigskin artist ‘will 1 29 for35

. ¢

Ti
ind everything needed

for the great game in our ALSO IN TINS OF

stock. Sweaters, — pads, 5O for 70¢

guards, stockings and

   

“Recreation Headqvarters"

PHINNEY’S LTD.

454 BARRINGTON
STREET

   

Manufactured } y
Amperial Tobacco Co of Conada, Limited.

 

 

 

b> THE REALE:

THE GLOSSOPHARRIS CO.
PRESENT

ALL THIS WEEK

“The Ghost Train’’

 

Next MON.-TUES. & WED.

“Oh! I Say!!”

A Delightful Farce
Comedy.

Se

 

 

| To readers of

| The Dalhousie Gazette

 

we recommend
Kj 8 |
inley's

DRUG STORE

 

For everything in

Drug Store Needs

 
   
 
   
 
 
   
   
 

>

ee

et. *

Weabeliat 'é


f
oe , tae. : s
ae owhee
aa ae ee
_ ie >
P

dressed as they?

iy table, |
- would not let her swallow. The tears

a ge
ee. ye

mpsc

pecially

   
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
  

f aloftness about the

young men and girls had been introduced
to her she had prepared herself for a
nfs = ate
' geal nice evening.
__ When the music for the first dance
_ $tarted a tall, handsome young man came
_ ever and asked her for the dance; she
accepted and was enjoying herself, when
she passed a window, that was open a
* little bit. “Extra! Extra! All about the—”’.
_————.'Phese words came in through the window,
She wondered
the “‘extra” was for but said nothing.
_ As she was passing the merry young
couples, while dancing, she thought she
heard her name mentioned several times,
and always heard the words “‘pity’’ or
But she must have been
- mistaken she thought, but however she
was a little worried.
After the first dance she sat down with
her partner, but when he left her for the
second dance, and nobody asked her,
she picked a book up from the table and
tried to read it, but she was always
conscious of someone looking at her, and
when she would look up, she would see the
girls turn away. She was very uneay

but she missed the rest.

“poor” with it.

and flushed.

- The third and fourth dances passed,
Why
was it? Was she not as pretty, and well
Was she not just as
good, if not a better dancer than most of

still nobody invited her to dance.

them? Then why did they not ask her?
‘She felt like crying.

ere ptt LHe fifth, sixth, and seventh dances
passed, still no one had asked her. - She

went to a little side-room and played

“Solitaire”; she tried to eat one of the

beautiful red apples from a dish on the
‘but that lump in her throat just

  

<a Sie arog

CK AND GOLD
: es CUTTA
. Kel arahet
nishments, together te
vO. i bon cperioe to Capt.
booming the navy

    

Ss g voice and
: 1g. a
ursday’s Ru

h s Rugby game on the D
pus. The score was 9—6.

  
     
 
 
 
  

. = The Navy men excelled in foot work,
, - dribbling the ball for many nage gains but

a

there was always a snag to hold them up.
Two or three times they came right thru

to full-back—Moore who was right there

to scoop up the ball and clear. Dal’s last
touch was started by Moore when he
pulled the ball off the toe of one of the
Navy forwards and tore up the field for a
retty bit of combination—Moore to
acLean to Smith. ‘‘Doc’’ planted the
ball squarely between the posts but even
then thie extra points were not obtainable.
Dal scored Pest when ‘Doc’? Smith
received a pass near the navy line and
loughed thru to touch the ball first
inside the line. Moore failed to convert.
The Navy men evened up when Halloran
neatly placed a penalty kick between the
posts.
In the second half the men in white
got away to a good start when Cronk,
unmarked by an opponent, went over
for a try which was not converted. This
aroused the Gold and Black to efforts
which were soon rewarded when ‘‘Doc”’
again obtained the ball for another
touchdown. Moore made a great try
from a difficult angle but fell short.
The final try was made when Moore
relieved the tension on the Dal line.
Still no convert—and that is where our
boys must practice if they want to secure
easy points.
Although weak in spots Dal made a
good showing for the first game of the
year and, with lots of moral support

from the students, will give a strong

battle for league honors.
The line-ups:
Calcutta—F orwards, Halloran (Capt),

Raw, Hodge, Eades, Wathers, Inglis,

   
 
    
 
 
  
 
   

cu}

  
 

a”
~s *

}

‘Ernst.

shy,

ri .? we
zy .
es
‘i ae
ae
=

:
a

{ .
+

Sander. Quarters, Lean, Nilder, Butler.
Halves, Beckett, Cronk, Kitson, Stavey. Fullback, Last.
Dalhousie—Forwards, MacLean
(Capt), Cox, Baxter, F. Smith, Tupper,
Quarters, Hewatt, Dobson,
Halves, ‘‘Doc’’ Smith, MurFullback,

BAG Li

Wickwire.
Langstroth, Beardsley.
oore. “

 

-Winter-Burns Ltd.

Exclusive Agents for

Clothes

 

‘Society Brand

e

 

~

_ Correct Dress for_Students

woe * ren - ‘ we or ee a

_ Extra!

on was a young girl | came to her eyes and started rolling down

years old, very pretty
happy to-day, because

   
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  

oe she was going to her first |
‘or a whole week her mother

een getting her ready, and when
ast eight came, dressed very prettily,
was more beautiful than usual in her
ne ent. . ’ °

Jhen she arrived at the house where
e party was she was greeted by the
ostess, but she thought there was an
alr greeting.

lowever she soon forgot this in her
tement and after the rest of the

DEFEAT CAL
in a word, is eevee
a

 

 

Se eset

her cheeks. The next dance was the
“supper-dance.’’ What would she do?
The music started, all of the other
girls had partners, and there were some
some boys left over, playing cards. Why
didn’t one of them ask her to dance.
When tea was served, she tried to eat,
but the lump persisted in staying at the
top of her throat. She tried to play
‘Solitaire’, but the tears now came so
fast that she could not half see the cards.
After the eleventh dance, she went and
got her wraps, and telling her hostess that
she was not feeling well, she drove home.
On her way she saw a newsboy, and buying an “extra,’’ she stepped on the
“‘accelerator,’’ and soon had the car in
the garage. She picked up the ‘‘extra,”
and went in the house, looked at the
“‘headlines’—‘‘Henry Thompson, Manager of the Bank of disappears
with thousands of dollars.’’ The paper
dropped from her hands, her lips formed
‘the word ‘“‘Father,’’ but did not speak
them; she fell in a heap upon the floor.
—Famect

 

Model Minute Keeper

(Continued from page 2.)

Cahan took Stewart’s place for a_ short
time, but the call of “‘time’’ brought
this exciting contest a close. The umpire
gave the game to our visitors by one
point—‘‘a try for goal’. The teams
were doubtless well matched, and even
although we might well have looked for
a more favorable result, if the weather
had permitted our backs to work to
advantage, yet, at the same time, a
defeat, from such a team as that sent out
by Acadia, would be no disgrace to any
team in the Province. You did nobly
Acadians, and deserve credit for it!
And, although, it would have been an
advantage to us if you had read the rules
a little more carefully, and acted up to
them a little more closely, yet we make no
complaints for perhaps you also saw
inperfections in us.

After the game the players drove to the
Halifax Hotel, bathed their wounds and
satisfied their hunger at tables set in
Hesslein’s usually good style. After
dinner, all hands drove to the station,
which was thronged with the students

-|who had come to see our visitors off.
_ | With cheers and loud hurrahs for Acadia,
Kel! for Dalhousie, and for everybody—we

‘| parted with mutual, hearty wishes for.
health and happiness... . . =...
- Our annual football match with Acadia
has brought the students of these in
stitutions into a closer acquaintance and
engendered feelings of deep sympathy and
esteem that shall last long after Greek

roots and mathematical formulae have
become, with us, realities of the past.

Come and visit us again Students of

Acadia.

A. S. Mac-KE NZIE,
Sec’y. 1A Aes

WHY I CAME TO COLLEGE.

HE Bermuda fFootball Team, the

Dalhousie first team, and_ the
Freshman class, will all be guests of class
29 at the Freshie-Soph dance to be held
at the gymnasium, October 20th. Joe
Mills with a seven piece orchestra will
provide the music. The gymnasium
will be decorated in a novel color scheme
being carefully planned by an energetic
committee. Class ’29 is to be congratulated on renewing an old Dalhousie
custom—that of entertaining the first
football team. It’s going to be a real
Dalhousie night. The whole college is
turning out. Don’t miss the best college
dance of the season.

Say it with Flowers, Say tt with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D. Florists.
We can wire Flowers to all parts of
the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.

Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

 
   
  
          
   
  

CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We ese the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED. ©
Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
ok . 6 se
Male Choir

The glee Club has been very
fortunate in securing Prof. Harry
Dean, the Director of the Halifax
Conservatory of Music, and a
member of the Faculty of the
University to direct the Dalhousie Male Chorus.

The opportunity to study under
a man of Mr. Dean’s recognized
ability and experience, is one
which the men of Dalhousie
will be eager to take advantage
of—knowing the heavy demands
already made upon Mr. Dean’s
time and energy the students will
doubly appreciate his interest
in their behalf.

It was through the ip tiativeand
untiring effort of Lee Chisholm,
a member of Mr. Dean’s Class in
Music II, that the Male Choir
was organized and did such splendid work. Mr. Chisholm will
assist Mr. Dean in every way
possible.

It was thought that this year
the Male Chorus might be given
a continuity, so that each year it
might commence automatically
to carry on, without the loss of
time incident upon reorganization. To this end it is prepared to form an advisory committee which will consist of two
Professors and two students.
Practices will start next week.
notice of which will appear on all
boards.

Joka Se

The Newman Club

The Newman Club of Dalhousie held a
very enjoyable and well attended dance
on Friday, Oct. 15th, in the K. of C. Hall.

The musical program was excellently
rendered by Miss Henrion’s Orchestra. ©

This being the first dance for the
term, there were many new faces present.
both freshmen and freshettes who in their
usual carefree manner at once proceeded
to enjoy themselves.

Several novelty dances were on the
program, in one of which Mr. Cotter and
Miss Hanifen, very kindly consented to
dance for the pleasure of the gathering.
There was much applause.

The refreshments were all that could
be desired as many can perhaps testify.

Much appreciation and thanks are due

due to the executive for the very able

manner in which they handled the dance
and under their experienced management
there will doubtless be many more social

functions of this nature. .

The dance broke up at 12 o'clock and
everybody, loathe to go, voted it one of

the best. .
The chaperons were Mr. and Mrs.
W. H. G.

H.C. Murphy.

“James have you
without permission?”
“Only wunst.”
‘“‘Leroy, should James have said wunst?”
“‘No’m, he should have said twict.”’

whispered today

 

WA ACE
aa
= GRS sit Wise EFSF
Lo °¥xa x< oO SNe P
Wee, tg se
Sing. 0 AN and

 

 

Ls |

Dal. Students |

Our store is the nearest book store ||
to your college. You will find |
| here a good line of all kinds of:
Blank Books, Loose Leaf Books,
Pens, Pencils, Blotters, Inks,
Fountain Pens, Eversharp Pen- |
cils, Note Paper, Greet ns Cards
| —in fact everything you will need
|
|

 

during your college ,course you
will find at this store.

Faulkner Book Store

16 Spring Garden Road

 

LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN:
YOU WILL FIND THAT OUR |

Footwear

SPECIALLY APPEALS
IN STYLE TO

College People

TUTTLE'’S
Chain of Stores

SPRING GARDEN RD.
BARRINGTON ST.
and DARTMOUTH

 

A sx, oe :

* 5 ais £ < : : ¥ 5
ee ee ee ee a a ee

é
AY

October 2ist, 1926

The Reasonable Man

(FOR LAWYERS ONLY)

HE Law Library is a strange place.

It has for me terrors and cnarms—
with which not even the bone room, which
is above, can compare. You are never
alone in the Law Library: though every
student but yourself leave, you still have
company. A queer company it is too.
When I am happy I think only of the
hundreds of jolly old red-nosed judges
who tumble from the dusty shelves to
keep me company. Sometimes I feel
a bit despondent: then there come
crawling out of the books musty old
solicitors reading last wills and testaments,
signing and sealing and delivering deeds,
drawing up weighty documents abounding
in ‘said’s’ and ‘whereas’s’; sometimes
there come undernourished law clerks,
and even criminals—there have been
times when I have not felt safe in the
Law Library. "

One day I was reading some cases in
tort—to this effect: the test of negligence
is the test of the reasonable man. I was
learning much about the reasonable man;
Smith, J. at page nine hundred and
ninety nine said profoundly: ‘‘The reasonable man is the standard. What would
the reasonable man have done under the
circumstances? that is the question.
The criterion is: Under the circumstances
how would the reasonable man have
acted. In deciding whether there was
negligence we must consider what course
the reasonable man would have pursued.”’
As I read and noted these judicial wise
cracks I wondered where I could find
The Reasonable Man! Though I could
not remember having met the gentleman,
glib judicial references to him persuaded
me that he must exist. Where might
I see him? Should I be lucky enough to
see him, what would.he look like? So I
pondered as I read.

Suddenly a footstep startled me. I
looked up to see a strange—and therefore
indescribable—figure emerging from the
stacks.

‘‘Hello,”’ I said noisily—trying to rout
my fright. ‘‘Where did you come from?”’

“From the books,’ he answered,
“from the books. What's this? Why
what are you doing man; surely you are
not reading some of them? For pleasure

WALSH'S

 

 

BRIGGS ORE

YOUR DRUGGISTS

SPRING GARDEN RD.
COR. QUEEN ST.

WINNERS From the

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and,Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

ALLENS

| SOCIETY
| AND
COMMERCIAL |
PRINTING |

=

 

124-126 Granville Street |

 

SOMETHING BIG!

 

 

No? Well then you have to read them?
Someone makes you read them? Those
dry, dusty, ancient, petty, books! Surely
not! Have nothing to do with them.
You must not use your time to such poor
advantage. It is not as though you were
chained, as I am, to them forever. Law
Journal, English Reports, Law Reports,
Nova Scotia Reports, all of them—all
have me hopelessly tied up. Lucky am
I to stroll this far. How many times |
have heard the Meds upstairs rolling
bones, and vainly longed to join them!
But you,” his tones became piteous, ‘‘you
who are free, actually free—oh, what a
fool you are! Reading the books!”’

‘‘Mind your business, will you,’’ I
shouted, clenching my fists and trying
to control myself. ‘‘Who are you to
call me a fool? Answer me: that: Who
are you?”

“Me?” he asked; ‘Why I am the
Reasonable Man.”’

[ MACLEOD, BALCOM,
—DRUGGISTS— |e
5 STORES

174 Spr. Garden Rd.
139 Agricola St.

34 Morris St.
103 Young St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.
HALIFAX, N.S. |

|
|
epee ere ee |

a

rs a Tl

|
|

| +:

| George F. Power
Cigars Gigarettes, Tobacos
|

|

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
of every Description. |

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

—

;

|
|
|

 

Going down to

MADERS

to-night?

|

Sure! See you
down there

 

$24.

OVERCOAT
or SUIT
TO YOUR MEASURE

Best value in Canada.

 

ee the many advantages
we oifer over sending
away thousands of miles for |
your clothes. Sf
We specialize
in

TUXEDO SUITS

$24.

Clayton & Sons
HALIFAX

 

EVERYBODY GOING!

The Boiler Makers Ball

GIVEN BY

DALHOUSIE

ENGINEERS

at The Gymnasium
MONDAY, NOV. 22, 1926

JOE MILLS ORCHESTRA

DANCING 8.30:

EVERYTHING BIGGER AND BETTER!
GET YOUR TICKETS NOW!

SINGLE TICKETS $1.25

$2.00 PE COUPLE

ht

 
