   
 
  
 
  
     
       
  
    

  

oe
_.
“aa

east!

et

—<< =

Sh ee aa,

RT
es A ex
4 - Ce Y ' '. i
* J ee
i yen "
* " :

eee

a

ri)

oF

ine ae:

»
a
et

ca

  
    

 
 

Pee

  
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
  

SLL

Pa ‘
ee Te gs ir
a A

fot 7 Af
ah ae
<—

ure
aa
ape
_
‘

a >
ae
miiee

Laven =A
meee eee Gay) Wes)
aE ue a9

e:

aD

' es ; _ applicants for ‘both _ positions),
ai hy MaclInnes,

   
 

Re oere. >< the Co
a ere prmh tee 1G
he said, had taken his position seriously.

practice at Oxford an dge is”
call their clubs after some distinctive

2%

part of the college coat-of-arms. Thus

¢ 7. mad
ete
a

et es * .
one, -Muschamp, it was agreed

/ ‘
|

TT

| To

.

ie

Council Transacts Importan
Final Meeting

o>
ee
oe

*

Business At

JENNINGS AND MORTON
GAZETTE EDITORS

: M: Fred Jennings will be at the head
4¥ 4 ofthe Gazettestaff next year. Thenew

_ Business Manager is Mr. Ralph Morton.
The retiring Council made these appointments last Tuesday at its semi-annual

meeting.

eligibility —_ rules.

and of new
the

joint meeting of

until next fall.

The meeting was a long one, involving
~ much business—which included, in addition to the matters already mentioned,
appointment of auditors for the Council
books (there was considerable praise of
the work of Messrs. Jubien and Morton, whom the Council decided to ask
to act again) and recognition of the

*
7

- Unicorn—the new literary club.
ay ‘Tie new eligibility rules are in effect

: re

a ore
classes; a special student may

diately preceding ex1ations(supplementarys not counted).
ter the election of the Gazette Editor
nd Business Manager (there were oe

r,
the retiring President, thanked
uncil for its co-operation and hard
Every member of the Council,

 

 

He wished the new Council the best of
luck in all its undertakings. Mr. F. R.

; Hayes, on behalf of the Council, expressed

appreciation of the work of Mr. MacInnes
and Mr. Godsoe and the retiring executive. Mr. MaclInnes, he said, had
brought about an unprecedented confidence in student government.

Tie New Editor And Business Mgr.
_ Mr.. Fred Jennings is a first year
medical student. He is an M. A. from
St. F. X. and has had considerable
journalistic experience—including service

on the Xaverian and two years on the

St. John Telegraph Journal. He has
taught for the last two years at St.
Dunstan’s.

Mr. Ralph Morton is a sophomore in
Arts and was last year president of his
class. He has managed a high school
paper; he has worked with the advertising
staff of the Halifax Herald and on the
Dalhousie Handbook.

The most important other business
of the meeting was the adoption of the
constitutions of the Committee of Nine
and of the Malcolm Honor Society,

old and new
Councils postponed action concerning
the National Federation of Students

lenient than the Intercollegiate
Fa . player need be taking only

iversity on certain con-|
passed

A

     
   
       
 
     
    
   
   
   
   
   
 

    

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, APRIL ist, 1927

t|DECISION GOE

 

 

©

| New Editor |

 

    
    
 
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
 

 
  
 
 

    
   
   
 
 
 
 

 

“Mr. Fred

Jennings will be Editor of the
_ Gasette next year.

ACADIA WINS
PROV. TITLE

The Dalhousie Senior Basketball team
surrendered their claim to the N. S.
Provincial title by dropping the final game
of the recent home and home series with
Acadia by a 38—21 score, bringing the
count for the two games played to 63—52
in favour of the Valleyites.

The initial fixture played in the Dal
Gym on Thursday evening went to the
locals with a 31—26 tally but in the
return game played in Wolfville on the
following Saturday, this small lead was
soon overcome by the fast working
Baptist five who piled up _ thirty-eight
points to the twenty-one registered by
the Halifax team.

The result of this series came as a
complete surprise to the local supporters,
but all credit is due the Acadia team for
the showing made in the final contest.

Manager Tupper and his team are to
be congratulated for copping the City
League championship this year and
making such a strong bid for Provincial
honors.

 

 

  

    

 

 

 

      
   
 

UNICORN IS GOING STRONG

 

 

s Meee Dalhousie literary society held
its first general meeting at the
Green Lantern on Tuesday the 15th.
Dr. MacMechan, the Honorary President, was the host of the evening and
to him a goodly part of the great success
and general interest of the meeting was
due. The attendance was small, as
indeed was hoped for, but every member
was enthusiastic and took a leading
part in the many spirited discussions.

The meeting began with a consideration of important business arising from
organization problems. The executive,
who had been so empowered at the first
meeting, presented a very simple con
_ stitution for ratification by the members.

After some discussion, and alternative
“suggestions, their recommendation, that
the club be called ‘The Unicorn," was
accepted. It was explained that the
Cambridge is to

was the name, ‘‘The Unicorn,” arrived
at. The most weighty problem before

     
   
    
   
  
 
  
 

the meeting was over the question of

membership, whether the fair sex should

be admitted or not. After heated argu
ments and the strenuous Shrections of
that

1eir_ presence would be too diverting,
and it was finally decided that member
1,
thw

5

 
 
 
  

oe

    

ship should be open to any male student
or professor who would be willing to
pay the immense fee of one dollar for the

privilege. To fill the vacancy left by
the resignation of Miss Alice Atherton,
Mr. Kenneth Smith was elected Vice
President. Dr. E. W. Nichols was also
unanimously chosen to the executive.
After this business had been dealt
with the rest of the evening was given to
a literary program. Dr. MacMechan
read an unpublished story woven around
a Maitland sea-captain’s acquiring of an
exceedingly valuable shell in the South
Seas. Besides the inherent interest of
the story, the blackmen and the suspense,
the paper gave a valuable sidelight on the
sturdy independence, bravery, and
shrewdness of our seafaring ancestors.
The Unicorn owes Dr. MacMechan a
heartfelt vote of thanks. Mr. George
Nicholls then read an article from the
January Harper's, entitled, ‘‘College
and the Exceptional Man’. This paper
gave rise to a solid hour and a half
of argument. The members seemed to
be about equally divided upon the
purposes, the advantages, and the disadvantages of the modern college, and
candidly expressed their contrary opinions, until mutual exhaustion called a
halt. The first meeting augured well for

the future.
—G. V. V. N,

TO Mt. A: GIRLS

ISTORY repeated itself on the

evening of Tuesday, March 22nd,
when Mount Allison, by carrying to a
2-1 victory the negative side of the
resolution, ‘‘Resolved that the influence
of the United States on Canada has been
on the whole, beneficial to Canada’’,
duplicated her victorious visit to Halifax
of two years ago.

Miss Nan Coleman (leader), Miss
Marjorie Groves, and Miss Muriel
Winters represented Mount A and Miss
Eveleen Burns, Miss Margaret Ells
(leader), and Miss Avis Marshall spoke
for Dalhousie.

The debate furnished a very interesting
evening and many compliments and
criticisms of United States as a neighbor.
Forceful arguments were brought forth
by both sides and all six speakers were so
convincing that there were many doubtful
persons among the audience.

Miss Coleman had a most pleasing
manner and seemed much at home on
the platform. Her rebuttal showed ability to think on her feet. The second and
tiird speakers were equally good.

Miss Ells, who made her first appearance in intercollegiate debating, acquitted
herself very well. The flash and force
of Miss Burns always go over big. Miss
Marshall is a spirited and finished
speaker. ~

The judges were Rev. Dean Llwyd,
Prof. Shaw and Mr. Milner, K. C., of
Amherst. After the debate the teams
were entertained at a dinner at Shirreff

Hall.
Tribute to Shaw

Dear Editor,

I would like a little space

What I wanted to talk about was
the Glee Club. I wish to express thanks
and congratulations to its president,
Mr. John Shaw for his wonderful work
this year. Many Dalhousians may think
that all his job consists of is in making a
few opening speeches at the performances, but they don’t know the half of it.
He has to get the people to put on the
shows and then be responsible for them.
He is the nucleus of one of the best
liked societies in Dalhousie.........

No one realizes how many times John
had to work ‘‘far into the night’ for
Glee Club—after a dinnerless day too.
As soon as one show was over he had to
begin on the next and now his efforts are
directed on the Convocation play. So
from the student body in general I
would like to express our gratitude and
appreciation of his work. The shows
were good this year, especially the
French production for which innovation
John was responsible.

And a word about the work of Miss
Jean Shaw. She started the Dalhousie
orchestra, worked hard at it, and made
a “go” of it. All the credit goes to her
alone. Every college has its orchestra,
so why should Dalhousie be lacking in one?

Then there were Gerald Stairs and
Harry Bell behind the scenes. They
worked faithfully and dependably all
year round

Gratefully yours,
Muriel C. Donahoe.

What’s Doing

Today Delta Gamma’s Final
Meeting

 

 

April 27 Exams
(some of the following are still a
bit in the air)
May 9 The-Dansant
(Williams’ Concert)

10 Arts ’26onatrip to the
Valley
12 Arts ’26 Banquets (Men’s
and Women’s) Encaenia
Ball
13. Arts ’26 Dartmouth Lakes
14 Dinner-dance Arts ’26
15 Baccalaureate Sermon
(at the First Baptist)
16 Alumni Dinner
Class Day Exercises
Convocation Play
17 Convocation
N. B. And then they will be educated!

 

   

   

     

a

TET

 

NO. 20

Girls’ Organization Presents

Fine Show To Win Shield

e

GRAHAM ALLEN CHOSEN
Play Manager PRESIDENT OF CLUB

r R = OFFICERS 1927-28

 

 

 

 

President: Graham Allen
Vice-President: Keltie Holman

Secty. Treas.: Walter Ross

Technicians: Carl Hood, Harold Beaton
Librarian: Ben Guss

Delta Gamma’s show last Friday night
provided a fitting climax to one of the
most successful years the Glee Club has
ever known. It was a show which
showed careful planning and rehearsing—
the general idea of making it a ‘‘melange’’
composed of reproductions of famous
numbers (mainly from the ‘‘Dumbells”
Revues) being a most original one and
well carried out. Although there was
no plot the interest of the vast audience
(estimated to be 900) never flagged.
It may truthfully be said that every
‘“Miss’” was a ‘“‘hit”!

M. Black's delightful voice was heard
in three numbers—the most striking of
which was the ‘Maiden Love Song’’—
(from ‘‘Rose-Marie’’) H. Wickwire responding with ‘‘Rose Marie.’’ The setting of this scene was exquisite. Miss
Black also rendered ‘“‘Just a Bird’s Eye
View of My Old Kentucky Home’’
(accompanied by the Charleston chorus)
and an attractive duet ‘“The Little White
House”’ in which, as ‘“‘Honey,’”’ she was
ably assisted by J. Shaw as ‘“‘Hubby.”’

M. Smith gave a clever impersonation
of the famous Stan Bennett in her two
songs—I love the College Girls’’ and
“The Hussars.”’ The parade of the
latter showed the result of much careful
training and the ‘‘costumes”’ were perfect
expecially in ‘‘de-tail.”” Music for this
number was furnished by the Panatrope
kindly loaned by Phinneys. J. Shaw's
impersonation of the one-and-only Ross
Hamilton was very brilliantly done. and
her song ‘I’m Wonderful”— introducing
a fashion-show of gowns lent by Jensen
and Mills—was perhaps the most-colorful
spot in the show.

The comediennes of the evening—K.
Holman (herself)!. Olmstead, R. Elder and
N. Fillmore—were in top-form and with
their amazing make-ups and easy stage
presence provided lots of fun for the
audience. ‘‘Us Girls Must have our Fun’’
was their best number.

The dancing was well in keeping with
the rehearsal high quality of the show.

S. Voliniski, K. Hagen, J. Fraser
and M. Black’’ were the leading Terp
 

Mr. Harry Bell is Business Manager of

the Convocation Play.

“FIRST YEAR”
TO TOUR PROV.

“The First Year,’’ the 1927 Convocation Play will be presented at the
Majestic Theatre on Monday May 16th,
the night previous to the Convocation
Dance. ‘“‘The First Year’’ is a part
of Convocation Week activities and is
presented. in honour of the graduating
classes of 1927. The block of seats
reserved for the graduates is already
well taken up and requests are being
received continually for reservations.
It would be advisable for all those wishing
seats in this block to get in touch with
Harry Bell or leave their names at the
University office.

Rehearsals have been under way now
for some six weeks and are expected to
conclude by April 2nd. After the examinations there will be a week of intensive
practice and “‘The First Year’’ will be
complete.

The presentation of this play is not
to be confined to Halifax, but will be
taken on a short tour of the Maritime
Provinces.

DAL GLEE CLUB ON THE AIR

 

—————
—_  — ——— — —— ——— —— ————

(Continued on page 5)

 

  

Soprano Solo

indeed | 2.
first

Glee Club is
on their

HE Dalhousie
to be congratulated
radio programme which was broadcasted
from station C H N S last Sunday evening, | 3,
March 27th. It is not superfluous to
say that it was one of the first and most
widely enjoyed programmes put on this
winter.
The night was very clear and splendid
for proper reception. Many telegrams

(a) Homing—Del Riego
(b) Last Night— Kjerulf
Miss Minnie Black
Piano Duet
Radieuse—Gottschalk
Mr. Frank Page
Mr. Harvey Hebb
Saxophone Solo
Sylvia—Oley Speaks
The Old Refrain—arr. Kreisler

Se

were received from all over Eastern Mr. C. F. MacKenzie

Canada. One said ‘Good work, Dal-|5. Male Quartette

housie etc.’’, signed ‘‘A graduate of '99.” (a) My Anchor Holds—Towner
The students broadcasting seemed to (b) Grant Us Thy Peace— Nevin

thoroughly enjoy their first venture on] Messrs. Lee Chisholm, Hugh Eaton, Roy

the air. Each one was anxious to do his Wiles, Gordon Bowles
or her best work for the college. 6. Violin

The thanks of the students generally (a) Romance—Ureviawski
should indeed be rendered to Mr. John (6) Serenade—Tosells
Shaw, the President of the Glee Club, Miss Claire Murphy
who arranged the programme. It was]|7. Bass Solo

My Task—
There is No Death—O’ Hara
Mr. John Wickwire

one which would do credit to any University.
The part played by an organization

of this type is an important one which]8. Piano

makes Dalhousie well and favorably (a) Melodie—Rachmaneoff

known. Men and women who have the (6) Sundown— Hopekirk

ability to broadcast a programme such Mr. Frank Page

as Sunday night’s, are students of which|9. Male Quartette

Dalhousie may well be proud. Sometime—S pooner
Following is the programme: 10. Orchestra

(a) The Londonderry air—Robert
(a) Prelude—Jarnfaldt
GOD SAVE THE KING

1. Orchestra—leader—Jean Shaw
(a) Marche Melitaire —Schubert
(b) Chauson—Trisk—Tschatkowsky

 

 
   
   
    

3 ‘ : ii | me * & i 7
April 1st, 1927

Ls ®
a

ss ss The Dalhousie Gasette

barns (Founded 1869).
D hee ‘
; . bing - = ; ‘ Editor.

= ANDREW HEBB,

Assistant Editor:
JAMES A. FRASER

Associate Editors: | Gasette D's:
AVIS MARSHALL ; MARY A. BERESFORD
FREDA WINFIELD iJ LYSONS ATWOOD
HERBERT DAVIDSON . A. CRICHLOW

SIDNEY GILCHRIST
BYRON IRWIN .
ARTHUR L. MURPHY

- GEORGE MacINTOSH
GEORGE NICHOLLS

Business Manager.

J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
348 Robie St.
Phone S., 1935

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

= ee

(4) The farmer lives in the land of romance. One can hardly
think of romance without giving it a rural setting. Spring—moonlight—the low grumping of the bullfrogs and the shrill piping of their
mates—a high powered motor—a clear road ahead and a lovely woman
beside you! Or perhaps it is a summer evening, the low meadows
have been lately cropped, a fairy mist caresses the lazy brook and the
sweet grass and the hay-cocks shake their delicious perfumes to the
night-impassioned air. In scenes like these, and only in scenes like
these can the youth and maiden taste the sweetest wine of romance—
drink the deepest draughts of passion.

(5) On the farm the student can keep up his intellectual interests. The long winter nights as well as the romantic summer evenings
contribute to the well rounded life. While his city brother is balancing
accounts in some stuffy office or filling an odd fragrant of his hectic
life by some shallow show the student farmer, secure in his rustic
retreat, partakes of that literary luxury which his years at college
taught him to enjoy. What though the wind howls without, piling
the snow high against the window-pane, he and his good wife, cozily
seated before a blazing fire, can, through their mutual enjoyment of
some classic poem or novel, strengthen those bonds first spun upon a
summer evening—strengthen them quite as effectively as they could

|
:
:

—

ms
[

ne) a ee aaa
: 7 ‘ le
i

 

L
f
iy .
*
coe wee

“The purpose of the Malcolm Honor Society shall be to recognize out
 

: way of saying as a group: We appreciate what you have done.

5

 

An Interruption

EFORE long every kitchen for miles about will be well stocked
B with aluminum and October and the Gazette will be at
hand again. It will be the same old October, unaffected by
even the Duncan Report. The Gazette, on the contrary,
will return with new vigour and higher ideals, and, in all probability,
in different shape. The summer interruption occasions a few remarks.

The Gazette writers deserve a word. It is a word of congratulation for having seen and seized upon an opportunity. Those
writers are to be most congratulated who have had most rejected, for
they have had most published as well. Nor was any refusal of itself
a reflection on the material submitted: it is an honour for a writer to
find himself on the pages of the Dalhousie Gazette. For those who
have written, the year has been valuable—whether or not they have
made the Gazette grade, for they have expressed themselves.

The Gazette wishes to thank the many persons who have given
help during the year, particularly Dr. MacMechan, who has been a
friend in many ways, and Prof. Bennet, Prof. Gowanloch, and Mr.
Arthur Murphy, who have taken time to select the best contributions
each month. Nor can we forget the co-operation and courtesy of our
publishers, T. C. Allen & Co., and their staff. It is hard to refrain
from expressing some appreciation of those people who have taken the
trouble to say, particularly where the saying involved writing a letter
and using a stamp, that they liked the Gazette. All who have been

_kind enough to enjoy each number have had their reward and require

no thankyous. <
Chivalry

_ standing and consistent services in non-academic, extracurricular, student activities.”

wi ITTLE more need be said about the Malcolm Honor Society.
| / “Services’ is the key word in this quotation from its con
stitution. It means an honest, enthusiastic and intelligent
endeavour to help your fellow students; that is, to emulate Jimmy
Malcolm.

The recognition of services through an honor society is simply a
It is
courtesy, one of the essentials of living together; and living together
is one of the main concerns of education. While an honor society is
therefore very appropriate among students, the idea is an old one.
The wealth of meaning which the honor societies of old gave to the
word chivalry is evidence of the high ideals which were theirs.

We may compare the honor society among students to the granting
of honorary degrees, which on this continent has superseded titles.
They are all the same, titles, honorary degrees, honor societies: the
purpose of them all is to recognize ‘‘outstanding and consistent services”.
Nor is the honor society a whit less important than the granting of
honorary degrees. It is well to remind yourself on occasion, and
ue to stick out your chest, that the university exists for the student
alone.

Farming As A Career For College Graduates

HREE more weeks of plugging—exams—Convocation week—

Convocation itself—and then the wide, wide world. ‘And

what shall I make of myself?’’ asks the stately senior. Yes,
these are serious times.

For those who are still pondering we have a solution, and, better
still, an attractive one. That solution is farming.

Farming is a calling especially fitted for the man of intellectual
attainments and cultivated tastes. A few of its virtues are as follows:

(1) It gives scope for originality. Agriculture in this country
is in a formative state. New inventions and new methods have already revolutionized rural life. The milking of cows, once one of the
main draw-backs of the farm, is no longer an obstacle, and, with the
perfection of Henry Ford’s automatic cow even milking machines
will be superfluous.

(2) It gives opportunity for leadership. In a city only a very
few have that privilege, and even they attain their position only after
they are well on in life. In a farming district on the other hand a
young man may plunge into community life from the very first and
find ample scope for his talent for leadership. Every rural hamlet
has leaders who hold community life in the hollow of the hand.

(3) The farmer is practically independent. The merchant is
dependent upon the good will of his customers, the doctor on his patients, the lawyer on his clients and the clergyman on his parishioners.
The employee is dependent upon the manufacturer, the manufacturer
is dependent upon tariffs and trade treaties framed by the politician
and the politician in his turn is dependent upon the electorate. The
farmer on the other hand, need bow to no one. He can turn a rocky
mountain-side into a luxuriant garden, or, if it suits his kingly whim,
he can blow the whole thing higher than the hen hawks. No wonder
farming is the most aristocratic of occupations.

in some vain and noisy city.

! Memoirs of a Young Man at College |

*

DO not remember precisely

I left off last week. The final tragedy
of my life at Dalhousie has weighed so
heavily on me that I have no memory for
small details.

I think I spoke of being seen, by a
cousin of Alice’s in Truro at one o'clock
of a Saturday morning. By no indirect
route the word came to Alice’s people in
Halifax. Her father, of course, lives at
home, in Lunenburg; or in some such
unfortunate place in the same county,
which is why Alice, when she becomes so
fluent as to be able to write letters to
editors, speaks so feelingly of the Halifax
and South Western. Well may she have
a friendly feeling for it, when she has
stayed with it for days at a time!—Her
father, being in Lunenburg, cannot
oversee her conduct, of course, in Halifax:
and so when she has made this journey
from the one metropolis to the other, she
is in her uncle’s jurisdiction.

In order to have what follows clear and
pellucid, I must first give the University
some notion of this uncle’s capacities.
He and his brother attended Dalhousie
together; it has never been the same
since. I hesitate to offend my friends of
the Law School, but (to be as mild as I
can) the rapacity, the crime, the villainous,
treacherous, and deceitful characteristics
of Law today are all to be traced to the
time Willie Davis spent three years
there, and accented its qualities. Willie
was not, properly speaking, his name:
by some sort of error, he was christened
Ophelia; but he was only once called
that at Dalhousie. It was an accident
that was very expensive for the offender's
family, of course, since he had to he
removed all the way to bis home in New
Brunswick before he could be buried.

Even the name Willie was not vleasing
to Alice’s uncle, and when he became a
judge he put a stop to that as well as the
other—I shall look out that this issue
of the Gazette does not get into his home.
His family—Mrs. Davis particularly
—seemed set on having a name to call
him by: if it was not Willie, it must be
—Ophelia?—I shall indeed take care that
this does not reach his lordship’s hands.
Therefore, finding them determined, he
made it known that henceforward he
was to be called at home as he was on the
Bench—as ‘My Lord’. He carried it
farther, and announced, at breakfast
one morning, that when there were
offences in the household, from the cook,
the maid, the chauffeur, or from Alice,
court would be held, at which he himself
would be clerk, counsel, jury and chief
justice. It was noticed that his wife was
excepted from those liable to trial.

He was a small man; but when I| looked
at him, sitting in his armchair behind
the big reading lamp in his library, I
was far from sure of myself.

‘The defendant will enter the box,’
said this spindly, undersized terror,
looking up from the letter—I suppose,
that written by the Truro cousin. He
held up a dictionary to swear me.

I swore.

‘You were on the morning of the
fourth of March, at two o'clock, in the
year one thousand nine-hundred and
twenty-seven, at Truro, in this car
mentioned, with this person?’ pointing
to her with a frown that subdued in
Alice a visible tendency toward laughter.

I said | was. He considered a moment.

‘Are you living with her?’ said he,
looking up.

‘My lord!" gasped Alice blushing.

‘Silence!’ he roared at once, half rising
from his chair. She shrugged her shoulders, but said no more, and he turned
to me again.

‘Are you supporting her?’ fiercely.

‘Only—no, my lord!’

‘Admits non support,’ he wrote, and
glared at me.

‘What county were you born in?’

‘Lunenburg, my lord’.

‘Ah-a,’ said he, and wrote it down,
remarking, ‘Crime!’

‘I protest, my lord!’ said Alice, rising
quickly. Much good it did her.

‘You too!’ said his lordship,
wrote that down.

His lordship began the summing up
at 8 o'clock sharp, and at 10.30 prepared
to pronounce sentence. I had by that

 

and

time begun to tremble whenever his eye

where | was on me: since that was frequent, I

kept the window panes rattling beside me.
He had summed up, truly: the criminal
codes of three modern states, the common
law, Roman law, the more lurid parts of
the Bible, and all references therein to an
estate of eternal punishment, seeming
to think that here was some reference to
the institution of matrimony.

‘To which,’ he concluded, with a
malicious gleam, ‘I have a good mind
to sentence you.’

‘My lord!’ said I, startled, ‘Consider,
my lord!’

‘I have, at some length!’ said his
lordship, grimly. He bent a fierce look
on Alice; but she gazed fairly back into
his eyes. It was an odd look, faintly
speculative and not in the least impressed.

I have heard it said that she learned
a great deal from her aunt while she was
in Halifax, and sometimes looked startlingly like her. Whatever the cause, bis
lordship no sooner glanced at her, than
he glanced away again, hastily. To my
eye, in that moment, there was a sudden
change in his face: there was at least
a great change in the proceedings of the
court. He looked as if he saw her for the
first time clearly, like a man who suddenly
finds that he is holding a match next
an open gasoline tank. He leaned toward
me again, and it was another man who
looked out of his eyes.

His voice, too, had changed, and was
almost friendly. ‘Young man,’ said his
lordship, mildly, ‘I am not adamant,
nor entirely merciless.’ “This court,’ said
he, after another pause, ‘is inclined to
leniency. On second thought, the Bench
is even compelled to express sympathy
for you.’

‘But,’ said his lordship, judicially, and
regarding Alice from the corner of his
eye, ‘the law remains. You do not live
with her: you have admitted non-support,
save the trifling item of one meal a day,
usually at eleven p.m., and that not
heavy, being no more than chocolate and
toast. In applying the statute, I can
turn not a hair’s-breadth from its provisions.

‘I therefore sentence you,’ he concluded,
rising, and donning the black cap, with a
terrible expression, ‘to the payment of
alimony, during the time and duration
of your living apart, and your separation,
according to clerical and civil law. This
decree is to be nullified, set aside, and
ended and made void, only by and in the
holy state of matrimony.’

He paused a moment, and I trembled;
but Alice looked at me from the other
side of the room, with encouragement and
comfort in her glance.

His lordship, still standing, and looking
straight before him, spoke in steady tones.
‘This sentence will be carried out and
executed by the Court’s deputy, now
present. Alice Davis!’

With a startled face, Alice rose, looking
from the judge to me, and back again.

‘Miss Davis,’ said his lordship, when
she had sworn on a Webster to follow the
orders and instructions of his Majesty’s
court of law, ‘this decree will be administered by you, when and if, before
and against, indoors and out, in all
weathers, upon the said defendant here
present. It is the intention of the court
that it be carried out not with cruelty;
but fairly, justly, and mercifully.’

I saw his eyes wander from Alice to

the picture of her aunt on the wall; while
I was still too dazed to understand what
was going on, he considered the portrait
a moment, and then came back to the
matter in hand.
_He looked at me, with infinite pity in
his eyes. ‘You poor sap,’ said his
lordship, finally, ‘you asked for it, and
you got it. I wish you luck.’

With that he stepped from behind the
desk, and disappeared, wrapping his gown
about bim.

There were mysteries on every hand
for me, and no light. When I had recovered sufficiently, ‘But what’, said I
‘is alimony, Alice?’

She laughed, and thought it over, as
she pit ao De cont When we were
outside, and walking toward Spri
Garden Road, she told a the worst. ee

‘I think, Jack,’ said Alice, ‘that it means
taking me to the Hall now, and going

(Continued on Page 5)

 

Page Two

 

THE LIFE OF A

LITTLE COLLEGE

 

woe happy returns of the day to you
a8 * * *
There is a rumour abroad that next
year Dal is going to institute a Freshman
Week.

* * *

Watch the notice board for the date
the Year Book is ready for you. And
the place where you can buy it.

x * *

Sympathy of all Dalhousians goes to
Dr. (Duke) MclIsaac, who lost all his
office equipment in the fire last week at
Glace Bay.

* * *

The Arts Library is again open in the
evenings. Town residents don’t forget
that itis a good idea to havea walk in
the fresh air before and after studying.

Why do we elect our executives in the
spring? So that they may have a chance
to think out their plans over the vacation.
Think it over, Executives, the French
Revolution accomplished everything (but
nothing more) that had been previously
thought out.

* * *

At one time Dalhousie did not have a
hall that would hold all students who
wished to attend Convocation. So tickets
were issued only to graduates. That
time has gone; the custom remains.

* * *

At the Annual meeting of Class 28
Mr. Walter Ross was elected President of
the Arts and Science Society. The
following slate of officers will guide the
Class next year:

Pres.—Hugh MacLennan

Vice-Pres.—Miss Frame

Treas.—Bob Slayter —

Sec.—Eveleen Burns

x * *

One person out of every fifty is coo-coo
and he lectures to the other forty-nine.
* * *

As an argument for the ‘‘'No Sunday
Studying’”’ idea we state that statistics
show that students can get along without
cogitating on the Sabbath provided of
course that they don’t insert more than
one Sunday in the week.

* * *

College Humour states that a college
graduate is either a success or a refined
bum— Keewreckt.

* * *

On Friday April 1st the Engineering
Society will hold their famous banquet,
at which all will do their best to drown
the thoughts of the approaching finals.

* * *

The Engineers report a big year.
Participating in almost all phases of
college activity, successfully staging a
big college dance, engineering a novel
Glee Club performance, entering into all
branches of interfaculty athletics and
putting on four big parties, the formerly
unrecognized Engineers are now known
throughout Dalhousie for their activity.

*

Talking about Latin, “Some students
stand a lot.”

* * *

Heard the latest one on Dalhousie’s
matrimonial facilities? ‘‘The University
is a clearing house,”’ says Dr. MacMechan,
“for (i)dears.”’

* * *

The spring fever has taken a drastic
hold on some of the Pine Hill inmates
and canoeing and swimming are now
included in their daily program.

* * *

Now that the French play has been
produced so successfully, plans are
underway for a Korean production,
under the direction of H. Chai.

* * *

Stuart Allan, president of the Freshman
Class has been forced to return to his
home in St. John, N. B., on account
of serious illness. We hope for his
speedy recovery and his return to Dalhousie next fall.

* * *

Judging by the small allotment of
money for highway construction work
this summer, the 1927 college graduates
will experience some difficulty in locating
a job.

* * *
Here lies the body
Of Abraham Small
He had five exams
And flunked in them all.
* * x

Our opinion of an optimistic Arts
graduate is one who thinks that because
he has Archaeology, Bib. Lit., three
English classes and History 1 off he is
qualified for a position in the Boston
Glue Factory.

* * *

Members of the S. C. M. have begun
their yearly canvass for funds, the greater
part of which go to the travelling secretaries who do so much to keep the
movement alive and progressing. We
hope they will have no difficulty in
reaching their modest objective. There
are many at Dalhousie who know little
or nothing about the work and purpose
of the S. C. M., and who would be well
advised to make inquiries. They may
be missing one of the finest things they,
as college students, are privileged to
enjoy.

* * x

This column is continued on page six

LS oe

 
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
   
    
    
    
   

i:

>

“RELATIONS BETWEEN THE STUDENTS’

by the number of victories in competitive sports.

 

History, Says President

: COUNCIL AND
EPITOME OF SPIRIT OF YEAR”

 

_ THE SENATE ARE

 

MONSCIOUSLY or unconsciously the students of any year make
history. The sum total of their spirit or quality is added to

all that of their many thousands of predecessors on the
student rolls. If this sum total is a positive quantity, the University
has made progress; if negative,—but it does not occur at Dalhousie.
The grand total constitutes the Dalhousie traditions, the Dalhousie
ideal, the essence of the thinkings and doings of Dalhousians, generation
after generation. It is worth while to try to estimate what standing
1926-27 will have. |

In my estimation it will stand out markedly in whatever way
we measure it. In my way of thinking it would not be measured
Anyone can shout
himself hoarse over a rousing victory. Rather one should ask, have
the university clubs and societies been keen and active and full of
vigour, regardless of the number of seriousness of victories and defeats?

T has seemed to me that, gauged in
this way, the year stands very high in

maintained a high level, and deserves
fuller sympathy and constructive assist
“Gazette’’ has reflected this spirit and

almost every organization. Athletics
have been followed with keenness and
are in a healthy, flourishing condition.
There was also evidence of a spirit for
clean sport, which appeals to the Dalhousie followers and supporters. Sodales
seems to have taken a new hold, and
promises to become one of the major
activities in the future. This is most
worthy of notice, for debating can be of
the greatest benefit to the _ student,
both in college and in after life. The
Glee Club has struck an entirely new

ce. Its early rawness and _crudities
ave disappeared. Here again is an
opportunity for student self-development.
The drama and music have been cultivated as probably never before. The

ance. And so one could go on through
the list. Finally we have the founding
of a new society, for the cultivation of

literature. That such a society should
have waited so long for revival does not
detract from the merit of 1926-27. It
but adds proof to what has been said.

I wish to add but one more proof of
the wholesomeness of student life this
year and of the fine student spirit which
was in evidence. The relations between
the Student Council and the Senate have
been of the most cordial nature. Granted
that much of the credit for this must be
given to the able and_ broad-minded
officers of the Council, yet it is an epitome
of the spirit of the year.

Finally, I consider the formation of the
“Committee of Nine’’ as the outstanding
‘event of the year in University life. As
the figure-head of that Committee, a
mere chairman, without power or vote,
just to see that the balance is kept true,
I am in a position to speak without
prejudices, and I wish to take advantage
of this opportunity to say that this
Committee has dealt with many matters
of difficulty and importance in a spirit
which is worthy of all praise. If this
spirit of willingness to see both sides of every
question and of desire to do whatever
is best for the University as a whole,
if this spirit, I say, is maintained—and
there is no reason why it should not be
maintained—the very best results may
be looked for. If for no other reason
than this, 1926-27 will go down to history
with a mark of distinction on it.

A. Stanley MacKenzie.

Alice Atherton

LICE ATHERTON comes from
Sussex, N. B., where she won the

Beaverbrook Scholarship on Matriculation. Since coming to Dalhousie she
has won the George S. Campbell, Bruce,
and Allan Pollok scholarships. Class
officer, university basketball player and
last year leader of the Debating team.
A writer and an honour student. She is
Vice-President of the Council.

 

Dr. MacKENZIE says “the year 1926-27
passes with high distinction.”

 

The | Choice

The graduate’s sported his sheepskin

But now he has stuffed it away,

With his textbooks on Latin and Physics
And junk that has seen its day.

He scratches his head as he wonders,

Jessie Gladwin

RIGINALLY from Halifax but now

P hes | : of Bermuda. Attended school in
Now which is the best road to pace— New York, Barbados, and Bermuda.
The path to a musty old office Interested in drawing and _ painting.

Or the way with the wind in the face? Well known tennis player and swimmer.

Debater and Vice-Presi Class ‘29.
TEI follow the way of the Inkwell ebater and Vice-President of Class '2

With its blots, erasures and dust,
I'll climb to the top of the ladder
As always a good man must.

I'll clothe myself in the fashion,
My food will be none but the best;
And I'll die in my silk pyjamas,
Praised, lauded and possibly blest.

Rae McCunn

OMES from Oxford,

County, where he attended the
Oxford High School. Spent a year at
MacDonald College, McGill University,
before coming to Dalhousie. Played
second team hockey during his Freshman
year and senior team this year. At
present secretary treasurer of Class ’29
and next year's president.

Cumberland

But if I chase after rainbows
And wander about in the sun,
I'll certainly never make money—
But then I'll have had my fun.
I'll see the world in its rawness
"Neath stars that are clear and bright,
And I'll die in my worn out breeches, D
Done, wasted, but pleasantly ‘tight.’ ouglas Scott
Shall I work for the distant future
Or shall I live while I can;
Will I be known as a winner
Or as one who ‘also ran’?” ;

—H. G. S.

OMES from Truro and originally
from Halifax. Attended Halifax
Academy and Colchester Academy where
he played rugby and basketball. He is
treasurer of the Freshman class.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

mper Year Nears Conclusion

| 1926-27 Will Go Down In|

President Elect | Desire To Leave The Rut Has

 

the
yailing optimism well founded.

pre
GERALD GODSOE considers

“OURS WILL BE
THE TRUST”

Fellow Students :—

It is with a great deal of pleasure
that I hereby do officially, what I have
been doing in my enthusiasm, personally,
during the past few weeks—that 1s,
pleasantly look back upon the old—and
hopefully look forward to the new.

The progress made during the year;
the cordial relations existing between the
President, the Faculty and the Students
Council; and the splendid esprit de corps
of the entire student body are pleasant
to think upon. It is very difficult
for one who is naturally enthusiastic to
refrain from speaking of the fruits of
this year with anything but superlative
language—and perhaps, I have in a
degree succumbed to the temptation,
but I sincerely believe that all in all,
1926-27 has been a very good year.
It has witnessed both the broadening
success of student activities which were
already in a flourishing condition, the
‘recall to life’ of undergraduate organand the

izations hitherto dormant; |
ambitious undertaking and _ successful
founding of new enterprises of merit.

 

(Continued on page 4)

Ray Garber

Bridgewater. Graduate
High School and
He is a valued memFaculty. Very

ROM
Bridgewater
King’s Collegiate.
ber of the Commerce
quiet.

of

George Currie

OMES from Bloomfield High School.
Played basketball and was
tain of his team for two years.

 

capHas

played senior basketball for the last
three years. Vice President of the
Engineering Society in 1926-27 and
President for next year. Plays inter
faculty basketball, hockey and football.

Murray Rankin
PRODUCT of the Halifax County
Academy. Class secretary in '23
'24, treasurer in '25, Secty.-Treas. Arts

and Science '25-’26, Class Pres. '26-’27.

Council member for three years. Twice

President of Badminton Association;

Sec.-Treas, of D,. A. A, C. and a re
presentative on Committee of Nine next

year. Played interfaculty rugby for
three years. He is Secty.-Treas. of the

Council.

 

Albert Smith

 

cc from Halifax County Academy. Senior Basketball for three
years and rugby for last two years.
President of his Freshman class in '24-’25.
Member of Students’ Council for three

years. He represented Arts on the
D. A. A. C. managing committee for

several years. Member of Kappa Pi Frat.

 

 

A BIGGER

April 1st 1927

 

 

 

Roused The New Spirit

YEAR’S SUCCESSES ARE ONLY THE BEGINNING AND
THEREFORE PRESAGE STILL BETTER THINGS

(By G. V. V. N.)
HE time is now appropriate for us to look

 

back and consider

what Dalhousie has done during the past session, what
advantages have been gained for the present and _ what

advances have been made for the future. The really vital thing in
Dalhousie’s present life, the thing which has not arisen from the
efforts of the faculty but has sprung from the student himself, is the
wonderful betterment in spirit. It is a thing to be sensed more easily
than definitely described. It is not what we commonly and narrowly
called college spirit because it does not take the form of rooting,
rah-rahing, and general noise. It is rather a desire to get out of a rut
and do something, an increased willingness and optimism,. a realization
that in personal effort is true satisfaction. It is that primary spirit
that justifies the prophesy that the present year is only the beginning
of a new and brighter era for Dalhousie. The reasons for it we cannot
fathom, but the results are obvious.

he first is the number of advancements
in college life which have been started

with such universal support. There
was a time in Dalhousie’s history when

The initial
move made by them, the professors have
always aided with their whole-hearted
cooperation. At the beginning of the
college term Dalhousie debated Alberta
through the columns of the two college
papers. The Spirit! It was the desire
of the students to broaden out, to get
beyond Halifax and beyond Nova Scotia.
In November Dalhousie had a_ very
successful Theatre Night. The Spirit!
It was a recognition of the need for
students to meet together far from
any suggestion of classes. Just before
the Christmas examinations agitation was
begun for longer Library hours. The
Spirit! It was the answer to a growing
desire for learning and a greater opportunity for gaining that learning. Now
through the initiative of the senior classes
Dalhousie will have its first real Year
Book. The Spirit! Finally several new
clubs have been formed, not for the
mere sake of forming them, but with an
honest belief that the growing interests
of the students require them. Those
Dalhousians interested in biology have
formed The Biology Club. Those interested in the many branches of literature have organized The Unicorn which
they believe will some day rank with the
Glee Club and Sodales. The Spirit!
It is the growing belief that such things
should not be confined to the classroom,
that at college they are matters of general
interest.

by the students themselves.

As if the tacit recognition of this, a
committee of nine has been formed to
govern college activities. It is an
answer to the Spirit! And then the old
established institutions have never met

 

| SNAPSHOTS OF THE NEW STUDENTS’ COUNCIL |

 

J. Gerald Godsoe

ERALD Godsoe is the Council
President. He brings to the 1927
28 Council three years Council experience
and two years experience as Secretarytreasurer. By dint of careful management he has piloted the Ship of Finance
into quiet waters. He has been one of
the student members of the Committee

of Nine. Graduate in Arts (1926),
debater, football player, | member of
Law ’28, belongs to Phi Delta Phi,

interested in everything at Dalhousie, admirably suited to head the student body.

J. W. Merritt
NE of the outstanding figures
the Council, Jack Merritt deserves
to be better known than he is. The
Medical Society has demanded most of
his energy, having twice chosen him
as President—an unusual honour.
The activities of that society are ample
proof of his executive ability. Medicine
28; Associate Editor of the Year Book.

 

on

 

(Merritt and Godsoe are the _ senior
members of the Council).
J. A. Tupper
UBREY TUPPER is President
elect of D. A. A. C. manager of

this year’s successful basketball team,

star football player and a member of

Dentistry ’28.

G. A. Winfield

ILL WINFIELD will

Council for the first time. In

addition to his Council duties he will

also be managing next year’s football

squad. Arts ’25, Med. ’29, formerly a

football player, a hard worker and the
possessor of executive ability.

serve on the

 

the Glee Club attracted only a small
number of rabid enthusiasts. But now
every student feels that it is for him.
When be misses a meeting he feels that

he has omitted something he should
have done. It is the same way with
Sodales. A few weeks ago an Honour
Society was formed to recognize those
who have done most for their fellow
students. It is the reward for the
Spirit! And it is because all these
things are the outward manifestation
of the Spirit, and not simply the
gratification of a _ clique’s ambition,

that we say they are only the beginning
and presage still better things for Dalhousie. The truly vital thing is that the
students are doing all this on their own
initiative, and are not sitting back until
the authorities do it for them.

 

Arts And Science

WALTER ROSS is the new President of

the Arts and Sctence Society.

To Class ’27

One generation having passed away,
Another generation has its day.

What profit then has man of all his toil?
Save for Truth only, naught abides for aye.

For everything that is beneath the sun

A season in the which it shall be done

Hath been appointed, and for every task

There is a time when it shall be begun.

A time for parley and a time for peace,

A time to sorrow and a time to cease,

A time to cast away, a time to keep,

A time to work, a time to seek release.

What boots it, ask you, labour’s steeps to

climb?
God hath made each thing lovely in its
time,

And in man’s heart hath set Eternity;

So is His work unsearchably sublime.
—Dal ’26.

Benediction

 

Good-bye, my comrades in the strife
For higher education.

The battle has been long

But you have fought it well.

Go, now, and take into your life
My parting benediction:

‘May life o’erflow with song
In a crescendo swell.”

 

 

 

AND A BETTER YEAR IN 1927-28

 
  
     

 
   
    
   
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
   
 
   
  
  
  
    

ee

  
    

nd when she came to visit us,
O’er miles of landand sea,
She travelled in a warm brown cloak
f straight simplicity.

Ps s pe! he
- v
, q ea aa 2

7 ine . > oe «
a 2 oe i 2 ie |
mee a
4

5 1 winter came to say good-by,

    
 
 

Sweet April’s heart was light,

__ She raced along beside him, clad
_ Inscarves of woolly white.

me. .
To-day she wears a gown of grey
Ee With yards of misty tulle,

And tulips, out in full.

_ Then April’s wondrous fair;
_ She plucks a graceful daffodil,
_ And pins it in her hair,

_ September is more beautiful,

_ And June brings us the rose,
But April is the ladies’ month,
_ Because she too loves clothes!

—F. W.

 

fo «Sure Signs
ks Fr - The Library is full of students working

_ —mnot reading the Gazette and Punch.
__ The notice board is empty—so are some
Fe

 

ey
a A

% «
e*
a

people's heads. :
Professors are telling pupils what they
might ask—of course they never will.
The Committee on Studies.and Attendance is inquiring about attendance—
they will find out all about the studies
-.. later. Ugh! .
* Profs. have c
their examination questions; but you will
no doubt be glad to learn that they are
now happily occupied in preparing the
supps for the Fall. Cheerful thought.
There aren’t any robins singing; there
are no blue skys, no sunshine, or flowers,
or anything pleasant around the campus
these days. But we know that Spring
is coming. Oh, yes we know! Hasn't
the Spring Examination Time Table
been posted for three weeks.
it won’t be long now. |

— Kelly '29.

    

 

abe.
&

‘If youwereme

Phe And T were you,

~ You'd likely be _

—lIf you were me—

_ A fool: pardie,

_ T’d be one too:

_ If you were me ©
And I were you.

A Spring Saga
 6.45—Student gets up from suppertable with the expression of a stained_ glass-window saint and heroically resolves to study. Wanders aimlessly
- around—goes upstairs. Looks at self
in mirror—spends 10 minutes fixing
cushions, light etcs
- -7.00—Finally settles down. Arranges
- books carefully. Doesn't like the color
scheme, so re-arranges them. Decides
to begin with Creighton and determinedly opens same. Discovers his fountainen simply must have a drink. Fills
fountain-pen and gets hands covered
with ink. Spends five minutes washing
it off. Takes collar off and lights pipe.
- 7.20—Finds that Baroko is quite
immune to his bravest attempts at
- reducing her. Gives up in despair and
- revenges self by carefully inking over
every ‘‘o”’ on the printed page. Surveys
result while meditatively sucking fount
 

_ ain-pen and marvels at his artistic

-a 28. “abrity. :

- ._. -7.30—Exit Creighton. Tackles Horace
and is disgusted to find that H. has

quite a number of words he never
saw before. Notices that ‘‘Eversharp”
lead is getting alarmingly short. Puts
- in a new one and smooths off the edges
. drawing gorgeously impressionistic black
~~ clouds. Regretfully sees that lead is
quite smooth. Starts to pull hair ner-vously and tap feet on floor.
_ 7.45—Horace to Hades—R. I. P.
How about Geology? Finds he can
draw perfectly faultless fault-planes and
is amazed. Notices “Physical Culture”
hind book-case. Thoughtful

Ht 3 ‘ $

reads

 
 
 

> ]
_. Watta Fish’s helpful article “How. I
baer pesepet my Fallen Arches and Picked

  

EY ay oacee . :
eee Tes Decides he’s thirsty and gets a
Para ae drink (H20). Suddenly remembers his
__ studying—rushes back and trips over
evening paper. Furtively examines same.
Comes to theatre page and Satan hovers
-——s near—nearer—he is tempted—A-a-ahbh
_ _No! A wonderful. light shines in his
eyes as his better self conquers. He'll
‘spin a coin;—'‘heads” he goes to the]
Casino, “tales” to the Majestic and if
coin stands on edge, he'll cheerfully
accept the God’s will and swot anew.
pins coin—it stops. Departs triumantly for Majestic. (but— don't tell

“FCP. .

 
  
 
   
     
  
 
  
 
   

   

 

    
   
 

_ While here and there a crocus gleams,

But when she wears a dancing frock,

‘passed into the office }

Truly, |

  

   
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

athletic events, man
who have become

missing from the line-ups.
squad

sprin
respectively.

- Ed Brown with D’s in three branches
of athletics will be the biggest loss sustained. He has received his letter for
Basketball, Football and Track. Brown
although only wearing the Gold and Black
for one year in Senior company, covered
himself with glory as the nucleus of the
Dalhousie Basketball outfit this year.
Sometimes it could be said that the
forwards were off, sometimes the guards

were off, but the center went on forever.

There are four among the graduatés
who have earned D’s in two branches

of sport during their stay at Dalhousie,
they are Rex Moore, Don Cox, George
Ernst and Art Coleman.

Moore who substituted at guard last
year on the baskettall team was one of
the steady regulars this term, his guarding
being largely responsible for the progress
made by the team this spring, reaching
the provincial finals with only one defeat.
His work at fullback on the football
field needs no introduction to Halifax
rugby followers.

Don Cox, ex-Acadia star, has served
two years as forward on the football
team and was one of the mainstays on
the forward line of the Tupperites this
winter in basketball. He graduates in
Pharmacy this spring.

 

Class ’29 held its annual meeting on Thursday the 17th. The
following officers were elected—
Pres.—R. F. McCunn
Vice-Pres.—Marjorie MacLagan
Secty.-Treas.—G. V. V. Nicholls
Executive—Marion Cameron
Jessie Gladwin, Forest F. Musgrave

Graham Allen was elected
Chairman of the Social Committee and Ernest Howse Secty.Treas. of the Arts Society.

|Students At

__ Deep Brook

"F'HIS year the Maritime conference

of students is to be held at Deep
Brook, Annapolis County. It is a beautiful place—ideal lodgings, surroundings
and atmosphere. The dates, May 27—
June 4 are well chosen;the season is
attractive, and the dates are convenient
for college students to attend before the
summer vacation begins. Transportation
will be made easy, and expenses reasonable. Who will be there? Fifty or
sixty students from Maritime colleges
and ten or twenty interesting leaders and
friends; probably the World’s Student
Christian Federation Secretary, a gentleman from India, and one from China,
as well as those splendid souls already
known and loved by students. What
will we get from this conference beside
the good time? First, ask someone
who has been at a conference to tell you
about it. Second—here is a quotation
from the central Elgin Houseconference
folder.

“Elgin House’’, the words are a
magic symbol. They make us, who have
been there, relive in memory the days
of conference. After all, the sum-total
of what they meant to us is this—they
were an adventure in friendship. We
met there students from other Canadian
universities, and we felt with all the
kinship of a common purpose. We met
students from other lands, and studied
with them in an endeavour to understand them, and their countrymen,
and world-brotherhood became not an
ideal that we talked of, but a thrilling
experience that we lived. We studied in
groups together, and we recognized the
immortality of the personality of Jesus
and of his spirit that we saw so clearly
in those about us. We shared together
the beauty of the woods and waters of
Muskoka, the music that is to many
the greatest thing in the conference,
the words of people who have journeyed
a bit farther than we have along the
highway of life, and whose very faces
are an inspiration—in short, all that a
conference means. We want others to
share the spell of a conference with us.

Binney or Ted, or Gwen or Adelaide
will tell you about it.

 

George F. Power
Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description.

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
_ Majestic Bldg.
FAX :

N. Ss.

 

Sophs Elect Officers Greetings to

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

WHEN THE WHISTLE BLOWS |

HEN the whistle blows next fall

and winter for the different

of the old athletes
avourites with Dalhousie fans in the past few years will be
The football
will receive the hardest blow;
eight of their number graduating this
while the basketball and hockey
squads will lose four and two members

George Ernst and Art Coleman,
both graduating in Theology this year
from King’s, were valuable assets to the
Dalhousie City League Hockey team
for two years and also occupied important roles in the rugby scrum for three
seasons.

Harold Baird, Captain of the 1925-26
fifteen and Jim Sutherland, both graduate in Medicine in May. Their positions
on the forward line will be hard to replace.

John Dobson who has played flying
quarter for the last two years will receive
his D. D. S. script this year. Dobson
played on the second team in his first
three years at Dal, entering senior ranks
in the fall of 1925.

W. C. (Bearcat) Harrison who has
completed his fourth year as a member
of the Senior Basketball five will be
given his parchment in Arts this spring.
During his stay at Dalhousie Bearcat has
always taken a keen interest in this
branch of sport.

The present hockey team will remain
intact with the exception of H. C. (Shorty)
Grant who occupied a wing position this
winter and. Bob Doull who teamed up
with Bill Wickwire on the defence.

Grant graduates in Commerce this
year while Doull gets his engineering
diploma.

Should the hockey squad decide to
remain in inter-collegiate circles they
will be without the valuable services of
goalie Capt. Jack Lewis, manager of
next year’s sextette, and Bill Wickwire
who graduate in Science and Arts respectively.

The Students

To the Students and Friends

of Dalhousie—my greetings.
_ This year I am making my debut
into your university.

I am coming on your invitation, and
it is solely through your interest in me,
and your effort toward making my
coming possible that I will be with you
about April 20th. I thank you, one and
all for your kind attention—and my
attendants likewise extend their sincere
gratitude.

When you first see me please do not
be too disappointed—I am small,some
people call mea little homely, others
say I am untidy, and still others say
“I am not quite all there.’’ I am sorry
if you feel you must criticize me very
severely—I shall grow in size I know,
and I am certain I can improve my
appearance and add to my _ mental
form and content as years go on. Of
course I cannot grow and improve if I
am not well received among you. I
want a welcome, I want to stay with you
for years and years, and I want to be
loved by friends,

THE YEAR BOOK.

_
1 eLLOW CAB

LIMITED
SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered

Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

 

The Greatest Asset of a business is
give customers what they want—
when they want it.

Job and Society Printing

always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

BIRKS DIAMONDS are more
than ‘‘just Diamonds’. Flawless purity and exquisite perfection
in cutting and mounting have
-raised the BIRKS DIAMOND

to the standard of the ‘‘gem of
of gems”.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

 

  
    
   
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
    

Gav Will Be
| The Trust

(Continued from Page 3)

With the one exception of hockey the
activities, and endeavors in a!'l directions
whether of the Council, the Athletic
Association, Sodales, the Glee Club or
any other group, have each received an
enthusiastic support from the _ undergraduates which even the most ardent
exponent of blue-ruin pessimism cannot
help but admit. The influence for good
of each activity, resulting from the
interest taken in it by the students, has
been marked; but what to my mind
ranks paramount and is especially edifying is the spirit to which these activities
and enterprises have given birth. It is
this above all that 1926-27 leaves as a
heritage to us of the oncoming year—
the development of an increased spirit
of University loyalty, the initiation of
steps to stabilize undergraduate affairs,
and the establishment of a new era of
constructive co-operation between the
governing bodies of the University and
the students.

Looking to the future—it may be too
early to offer an opinion—but I cannot
help feeling that we may also expect a
very good year. As I meet with the
various executive heads of the undergraduate world I am impressed with the
spirit of optimism which prevails, and
it seems to me that this optimism is
well founded. Ours will be the trust and
the duty to continue the task of reorganization commenced by our predecessors; to finish the work of placing
student activities and student government in a perfect and permanent basis,—
and to blaze the paths of new enterprises—and new ambitions for the advancement of the general good of our
Alma Mater and her students. I hope
we shall be equal to it.

 

—Gerald Godsoe.

Compare this for value:

72 Sheets of Paper
72 Envelopes

each embossed with
Dalhousie crest.
Packed in neat box.

$1.85
FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

Nearest Stationer to your College

 

rom the

WINNERS From

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

Clothes Seen at the Colleges
Suits, Overcoats
and Furnishings

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W.F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.

HALIFAX

  
  

 

 

 

lFYou Want To See Wee

SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y. M. C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX, N. S,

 

Gauvin & Gentzel

     

Photographers

&

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

     

 

 

Page Four

   
    
     
  
   
  
    
     
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
    
     
   
     
      
  
   
 

YOUR
SPRING SUIT

Beautiful shades and weaves
of selected spring suitings are
now on display. Never have
we shown a more atttactive
range.

Ask to see our No. 597 fine

twilled guaranteed Indigo
dyed blue serge.

Suit to your order

$24.00

Claytons
JACOB ST.
(A Maritime Industry)

 

Black & Yellow

We have a good supply fo
our distinctive Dalhousie note
paper.

Crest Die-stamped in University
colors, Black and Yellow. Highest quality paper.—popular size
and shape, envelopes die-stamped on flap to match.

65¢
65c

Paper per quire
Envelopes per pkg.

sold in bulk only—buy as much
or as little as you desire.

Faulkner’s Book Store
HALIFAX

 

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00,

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N.S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

Barrington St.,
Sack 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D. Florists.
We can wire Flowers to all parts of
the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

  
  
 

R. C. WILCOX, Proprietor

385 Barrington St.
HALIFAX - CANADA

     

   
Pe a ane ee oe
3 ehck Tr eta)
iy iz 7 alk eds. Sly. Fie
te = ee m.* - or =<
ga ery tt) ol Bh i a
r eee ty P r, z re : ae
“oi ‘or ae ‘ hey
Pathe. * ; i

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

eee alt

___~-LAW WINS BASKET TITLE

_ By holding the Arts Basketball five
down to a three point lead in their second

game of the play-off series for the interas title the Legalites annexed their

we interfaculty championship for

s term by a total 44—39 score.

___ Lineups:—

_ Law—Mitchell center; Doyle, Rich
__ ardson forward; Gavsie, Wickwire and

— Outhit guards.

— Arts—Clark center; Dockeril, Blenk
_ insop, Doyle, MacRae forwards; Band
ford, Potior, MacLeod guards.

ae
F ,
aa

 

Ata meeting on Tuesday the Law
Society elected the following officers
and team managers:

_ President: J. E. Mitchell
- -Vice-Pres.: J. S. Dresner

__Sec.-Treas.: Alec MacKinnon
—___— Foothall: Pill Wickwire
Basketball: Cyril Doyle
_- Hockey: Alban Farmer
Banquet Committee: Charles MacKen___ zie, Ned White, and Pill Wickwire.

~~ ~+Mr. Munoch, of the Ontario Bar,
___who is here representing Besco, gave
an address on legal ethics on Tuesday
eS to the Law Society. Rc

ma”
*

oh,

OG

It is rumored that Dal may be able
_ to boast a monthly next year.
: *

Bee DALLUSIENSIA ERRATA

1. Dr. MacMechan’s short account
of Dalhousie was mis-called The Life of
a Little College which of course is an
essay.

— ~~ ~—-2.-Ss«dAt:~was Haliburton and not Howe
| ~—~—~-_—s who called Dalhousie ‘‘that pastry-cook’s
i > Shep”.
_-—s«d3..-soThe ‘first Dalhousian to win the
D. S. O. was Capt. H. B. Stairs, Arts '91,
Law ’93, who won his decoration in the
- Boer War at the Battle of Paardeberg.

ae

 

é ars
ao.
;
es
ore |
¥

i
ed

Did you miss the Gazette last
week? Will you miss it next
week? The Gazette costs you
only five cents an issue.

ENGINEERS

At the annual meeting of the Engineering Society held on March 14th, the
ollowing officers were elected to carry
the organization through another year:
-i=-2- (2 -Hon. Pres. Prof. Copp c'
. President, G. J. (Skip) Currie
~--s- Viee-Pres., H. M. Beaton
ss See.-Treas., Edwin McKeagan
Wesley Stewart
E. G. Prince

em

COMMERCE

‘ At
oo ipl
= xs a a

Executive,

 

With Mr. Arthur Jubien presiding,
the Commerce Society held last week its
Annual Banquet. The guests of honor
included Dean and Mrs. Read, Prof. and
Mrs. Maxwell, and Prof. T. M. MacDonald.

The following participated in the
toasts: the President, R. Garber,
Dean Read, Miss Frances Elkin, Prof.
Maxwell, Prof. M. MacDonald, R. U.
Slayter, R. Matheson, Miss Irene MacDougall, H. C. Grant, A. C. Morton,
S. H. Baird, and R. Lawrence.

' The following supplied the musical
program: G. H. Bowes, Miss Hazel
Williamson, Miss Jean Murray, Mr.
R. Lawrence. R. Matheson and Mr.
H. H. Harris did the Charleston.

The one picture that H. L. Stewart
received a kick out of censoring this year
was MacFadden’s Flats.

MEMOIRS

 

(Continued from page 2 )

with me to Glee Club, and the Majestic
~ once ina while.’

We were then passing through the park
by Burns’ monument.

‘That is not all, Jack,’ said she.

I kissed her; and it is in my mind’ that
she kissed as well.

‘What I meant, Jack,’ said Alice,
explaining herself, ‘was that you are
going to study this month and next,
and graduate with the class.’

I was horrified. This thing was beginning to go a bit far, even if there were
compensations, and a prospect of occasional felicity.
There had been no time set for this
madness. ‘And how long,’ I demanded,
‘is this alimony to last, Alice?’

‘You heard the sentence,’ said she,
ae cee a moment, and looking at me
fairly beneath a street lamp. 1! knew it
(of course) only too well. ‘Carried out
__ justly, fairly, and mercifully,’ said Alice
softly, ‘until Convocation at least,
ms, jack.’

_ ‘I have been studying since, and in_ somnia of the classroom has me in its
grip. If I seem to end on a tragic note,
forgive me, and for the gloomy tinge. of
all this number.

___ But there are compensations to even
the blackest misfortune.
eh, THEEND,

pus Items] ONCE AGAIN ENGLISH 9 SCORES SUCCESS

/ Whitman,

 

PW liners Of Gaz
ette Competitions

Six Writers Qualify
For Gazette D’s

Fmesins out of almost eighty writers

on the Gazette lists, Avis Marshall,
Freda Winfield, Herbert Davidson, Byron
Irwin, George Macintosh, and Frank
Page succeeded in winning their D's,
which will be presented at the Class-Day
Exercises. Miss Margaret Ells, Miss
Irene MacDonald, and Mr. Ronald
Hayes made the best individual contributions furing the year, which were
Higher Mathematics, In the Heart of
Cape Breton, and Freshmen Empty Theatre,
(a news story) respectively.

The prizes for this month go to George
Nicholls for To England; and to Ben Guss
for his account of the Antigonish Trip,
and Ralph Morton for A College or Yoniversity?

Following is the standing of Gazette
writers (it includes this issue). Please
notify the Gazette of any omissions.

Division Five—

Division Four—Rowena Gould, Ronald Hayes.

Division Three—H. Bell, J. A. Fraser,
R. Morton, P. L. H. Muschamp, G.
Stairs.

Division Two —Alice Atherton, G.
Allen, Margaret Ells, Ruth Foote, G.
Godsoe, B. R. Guss, Allison MacCurdy,
D. F. MacDonald, J. F. MacManus,
C. B. Moore, G. Nicholls, Arthur Ross,
Elliott Russell, Helen Wickwire, H. L.
Scammell.

Division One—C. Allen, Elsie Barnes,
Hamilton Baird, Elizabeth Callan, G. H.
Crouse, E. Clark, W. Clark, M. Donahoe,
R. Doull, Frank Covert, H. Eaton,
Marie Erickson, Betty Freeman, H.
Godsoe, K. Hagen, W. L. Henley, Ernest
Howse, Arthur Jubien, P. L. Judge,
J. Lewis, Irene MacDonald, Irene MacDougall, R. MacMillan, H. Matheson,
J. W. Merritt, H. Morton, Leonard
Miller, B. Murphy, Lydia Miller, E.
Murray, Muriel Love, C. Oake, W. D.
Outhit, W. B. Ross, G. Redmond, M.
Rankin, K. Smith, Mary Sullivan, H.
A. Wilbur, R. Williams,
V. Snarr, J. Shaw.

Within the divisions the names are in
alphabetical (if any) order. Div. V
indicates twenty or more points; IV
fifteen or more; IIJ ten or more; II five
or more; I less than five. ;

Twenty-five points entitles a writer
to a Gazette D. One-half is an average
rating for a contribution; one-quarter
is frequent; anything more than two 1s
rare. Not more than five points for a
year’s service on the editorial staff.

THE MALCOLM FUND

 

The Malcolm Memorial Fund was
started shortly after the tragic

death of James Malcolm, and at present
amounts to about $1,800.

The matter has been thoroughly gone
over by the Board of Governors and the
Presidents of the University and the
D. A. A. C. and it is thought advisable

to make some immediate use of this.

money in the way of purchasing much
needed equipment for the present gymnasium.

The money is to be loaned only on the
definite understanding that a similar
amount will be expended by the University on some permanent memorial in
the proposed new gymnasium when
erected.

As We Were Saying

GIRLS’ ORGANIZATION PRESENTS

 

(Continued from page 1)
sichores and won unstinted applause,
especially in the ‘‘Gypsy Dance.”

A novelty offering by the comediennes
was their introduction and operation of
‘‘Necking Recorder’? Which instrument
revealed the aptitude of certain students
for this pastime. Needless to say, this
number brought down the house. The
entertainment closed with ‘‘The Charleston Ball’ in which the entire cast took

art.

Mr. J. Connolly (whose good work
last year in ‘‘Honi-Soit’’ will be remembered) and Harriet Matheson deserve the heartiest praise for their unceasing efforts in making the girls’ show
the great success it was. Also in_line
for hearty appreciation are John Budd
with his Dal. orchestra and Jerry Stairs
with his stage-helpers who wrestled
gallantly with a more-than-usually-temperamental curtain. Appropriate _ presentations to the above mentioned for
their generous aid were made during the
evening by H. Wickwire, president of
Delta Gamma. The Gazette offers its
heartiest congratulations to the society
on winning the Glee Club Shield—the
show being voted the best this year.

—F.C.P.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

NOTICE

 

The students who have not yet
returned their athletic equipment to Mr. Stirling are requested to do so as soon as possible.

Plans are afoot to develop the
Freshmen, and new comers next
year will be enabled to take
part in the practises.

From The Big City

14 Wall St.,
New York

 

Dear Editor:

Well, I just came in from a luncheon
with Messrs. Morgan, Rockefeller, Ford
and Carnegie (who constitute the Committee of Welcome for pseudo-billionaires
in this country) during which they
welcomed Mr. Andrew Gump and me
to the realm of high finance. After
reviewing our respective qualifications
the members of the committee expressed
their unanimous opinion that Gump
and I would certainly attain to the position which experience leads them to
expect we will. However, that’s by the
way, and of course they'll not be disappointed in us.

In spite of these frequent conferences
with the many kings of finance, I still
find time to read and enjoy the Gazette.
My acquaintance with the Gazette last
year has left a warm spot in my heart
for its progress and I look forward
eagerly to its arrival each week, and,
you may rest assured, ‘‘proof-read”’
every word that it contains. Allow me
to congratulate you and your editorial
staff on the high standard which you
have sustained from the very first issue.
I was glad to see occasional contributions
from Miss Beresford and in particular
those from Muschamp.

I suppose it is rather late in the season
to congratulate the Dalhousie team on the
successful outcome of the DalhousieAlberta debate, but to my mind that
victory awakened the dormant ‘‘college
spirit’? which has resulted in such unbounded enthusiasm throughout the
entire university this year.

The reports of Glee Club doings make
me wish I were back in the old ‘“gym’’
AGAIN: 2S

I am glad to hear that the Year Book
is coming along so well. It has long been
contemplated and will serve as a fitting
climax to such an outstanding college
year. I trust that the  subscrivtion
enclosed will not arrive too late to secure
a copy for me.

Well, one of my secretaries tells me
that my friends Ford and Rockfeller
have been waiting outside for the last
fifteen minutes to see me about establishing an aeroplane route between U. S.
A. and Australia, so I guess I'll have to
stop writing and let them enter.

With best wishes to you and all Dalhousians for good luck in the approaching
exams, | am

Yours faithfully,
WARREN PUBLICOVER,
Arts '25, '26 & '27.

Dal Holds Cup

By defeating Mt. A. 17—5, here on
Saturday the Dal girls’ basketball team
won the right to keep the intercollegiate
cup for another year. The game was
turned into a farce by the antics of the
two coaches who refereed, an arrangement
made only because Mt. A. refused to have
it otherwise, although Dal was distinctly
against such a plan from the beginning.
The first period which ended 4-2, Dalhousie, was marked by poor shooting,
travelling and free shots; the visitors
had the edge in this period. In the
second period Miss McCurdy did some
amazingly accurate and spectacular shooting which was the feature of the game.
These baskets along with some free
shots gave Dal a final total of 17 to
Mt. A’s. 5. Undoubtedly Dal had the

 

better teanf and deserved to win but,
just as undoubtedly there was little
pleasure in winning such a game except
that it gave the girls’ team this year the
honor which it also had last year, that
of bringing her one and only championship to the college.

 

Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.,
GEORGE O’BRIEN
IN
THE BLUE EAGLE

Mon.-Tue.-Wed.
LOVEY MARY

April 1st 1927

| “Campbell of Kilmhor” and “The

Locked Chest”’

Share Approval

Large Audience Appreciates Third Offering
Of Plays By Modern Drama Class

 

By F. Ronald Hayes.
OR the third year in succession

Professor Bennet’s class in drama,
produced a series of one act plays at the
School for the Blind, on Wednesday
evening before a packed house. There
was less of comedy and more of the serious
element than on either of the former
occasions. Each year Professor Bennet
seems to have attempted to produce one
play without regard to Box Office considerations,—that is, a play of which
the success was not assured beforehand
by its very nature. Last year, the
play was “Ile”, and it was generally
conceded that this play was the finest
part of the program, perhaps the best
one-act play produced in Halifax for
some years by any amateur organization.
This year, the play ‘‘Polyxena’’ by
Euripides, translated from the Greek
by A. S. Way, was the daring element.
Great credit should be given for this
production, giving, as it did to ninetenths of the audience, their first view
of Greek drama. It was, I think, an
error in technique to produce suagh a
play as this at the end of a long program
when the audience was tired, and this
undoubtedly detracted from the enthuslasm of its reception, which was only
luke-warm. The acting was good, particularly that of Misses Edna Mingie
as Hecuba, and Allison McCurdy as
Cassandra. Miss Sarah Volinsky also
carried out her part very well, as did
Mr. Ben Guss, who made a very handsome war veteran. Mr. Roy Wiles,
as Talthybios, rendered his lines with
exceptional conviction. The chanting
of the Chorus was well done, although
at first a little too low to be easily heard
at the back of the hall. A feature of
this play was the excellence of the costumes, their charm and simplicity adding
greatly to the realism of the production.

The curtains first parted to disclose
two gentlemen, C. A. Yeo, and H. F.
Wheatley in bed in an Irish Poor House.
This play, ‘‘The Workhouse Ward”’
by Lady Gregory, was well spoken,
offering, as it did, practically no opportunity for action; in fact, it was not
really a play at all, but a clever dialogue.
Miss Marjorie Thompson, brought forth
considerable laughte~in her conversation
witb ber erring relative, Mike MaclInerney, while his bedside kick, Michael
Miskell (C. A. Yeo) added his contribution to the general humor of the
situation.

_ “The Locked Chest”, by John Masefield, was the most humorous item on the
program, and Mr. Bill Dennis, the
snivelling husband, was the best male
performer of the evening. His acting
kept the audience in a gale of laughter,

CASINO

THIS WEEK-END

“THE MONKEY TALKS”

WITH
OLIVE BORDEN
And A Star Cast

 

 

 

 

Official Motion Picture of the
Heavyweight Boxing Contest
Between

MIKE McTIGUE
an
JACK SHARKEY

First 4 days next week

HAROLD LLOYD
As the Boy Sheriff

IN
“THE KID BROTHER”’

 

and was more responsible than anything
else for the success of the play, although
his mastery of his lines left a little to be
desired. Miss Matheson, as the wife, was a
trifle too emotional in the opening scene
and not as convincing as she has been in
previous college performances while the
same might be said of Mr. Bill Clark,
who seemed to be somewhat depeptonized.
Mr. J. W. McNaught gave a creditable
interpretation of a rather difficult part.

“Campbell of Kilmhor’’ shared the
honors with the Locked Chest for popular
approval and with ‘‘Polyxena’’ for costuming and _ setting. Miss Elizabeth
Callan and Mr. Roy Wiles were outstanding in their interpretation of the
Scottish characters which they portrayed,
while Mr. Walter Ross was almost
equally good, although some of the
longer speeches sorely tempted his debating ability. Miss Jean Shaw made an
excellent Scottish girl, being particularly
effective in the closing lines of the play,
while Mr. Pill Clark was much better
in his role of an army officer than in
‘The Locked Chest’.

On the whole, Professor Bennet and class are to be congratulated
warmly on their performance.

ARTHUR & CONN

: LIMITED
—Elecirical Contractors—

Repairs Promptly Executed

100 ARGYLE ST., HALIFAX, N. S.
Phone Sackville 512

 

 

Living |
In Halifax
While living in Halifax
we want you to feel that
The Green Lantern was

designed for your pleasure and comfort.

Lunches, Ices,

 

Drinks
The Green Lantern

 

 

 

Majestic

LEON ERROL
IN

“A LUNATIC
AT LARGE”

A BIG LAUGH

 

MON. TUES. & WED.

‘*FAUST”

EMIL SANNINGS
‘““REMEMBER VARIETY”

 

STRAND
NOW
‘TIP TOP REVIEW’’
WITH

A SNAPPY CHORUS OF
SPEEDY STEPPERS

 

Climo
Photographer

501 Barrington St.

Halifax, N. S.
Phone H. 1395

 

 

COMPLETE

WE carry a complete as
sortment of makes
and sizes of boxing gloves.
Our sporting goods are up
to top notch in quality and

moderate in price.
“Recreation Headquarters”

PHINNEY’S LTD.

454 BARRINGTON
STREET

 
 
    

College Or

T is all Dr. MacMechan's fault. He

! should never have set such a difficult

question. ‘Is Dalhousie a college or a
university?” he asked last Tuesday,
or Thursday or one of those other days
we had last week. The wording of the
question seemed so simple at first that
I was not able to answer it and so [ took
it home with me—which brought further
proof of the old maxim ‘‘Never take the
word of your professor’— home or
anywhere else. ‘‘Is Dalhousie a college?’’
I asked myself. I did not know. I
must find out immediately—if not before.
I went to my bookcase and pulled out
bt Nos books! Hundreds of books! Little
books, big books, black books, yellow
books, thin books, fat books, red books
(and unread books) but all books about
college and college life. I read them
all. “‘Then came the dawn—”’ as the
movie sub-titles say; I was still reading
my books—but I had come to an amazing
decision. I had made a_ remarkable
discovery. Dalhousie is neither a college
nor a university. Let me tell you why,
and you need not take my word for it
either—‘“‘look it up’’—‘‘verify my _ references.”

In the first place, the students don’t
dress properly. We have no Collegiates
or Rah-Rah boys which are so necessary
in the make-up of a modern university.
These boys wear slouch hat, fur coat,
flapping overshoes (the Macneill, Pierce,

 
 

Continued from, page two.

2 Well, at last the bridge tournament is
over. Somewhere in the natural course
“events Harry and Stevie made a
slight miscalculation. It must have been

a sad disappointment.
ie. ei * * *

English IT i to piceat Macbeth in ee
classroom. The following are taking
Bees! Loe Miss Gladwin, Messrs. Nicholls,

- et, Bei

    
    

     

 
   
   
 

rave, Allen, Morton, Mahon, Whaliffer, Douglas, Webber, Crouse.

     

* * *

Mr. Stirling is preparing carefully for
the gymnastic display.

    
 

* * *

Hestry. Bell has completed bookings for
the Convocation play. The company
will be on the road until the 27th of May.
oT te * * *

We have heard rumours of the formation
of a new frat. The purpose this time is
to protect the privileges of the men
against the rapid inroads of the women.

a * *

The Moot Court finals for the Prof.
Sidney Smith trophy will be held in the
fall. Binney Fairbanks, Alban Farmer,
ie Gerald Godsoe, and Albert Walsh have
Peco - proved themselves the best barristers in

      
   
   
     
     
   
   
 

  

the second year.
‘ * * *

“'What’s in a lecture?’’ asks

|. Jast time this year.
? 5 * & *

forget their cues in the Convocation play
ae rehearsals, they need not choose the
et moment when Forrest is sitting comfortably on top of Graham Allen!

. e * *

Ber = We wonder if Delta Gamma has thought
. of augmenting its depleted funds by
instructing Pine Hill in the intricacies of
the Charleston.

|
F ee It is suggested that if people must
f

es * *

Some people are beginning to think
- that Drawing I should be a pre-requisite
for Biology I.
| a * *
Some ple in Latin IL think that
’ Asclepiadic. should be pronounced As_ __ sleepy-adic. sige.

Now we know why Prof. Walker was

   

we : & , History 3. Congratulations!

because in Dalhousie in the spring a
-——- young ~man’s fancy “‘lightly” turns to

8 thoughts of—exams!

5. = ak~ t

bee By their deeds shall ye know them.

ee Class 28 has given $50 to Rainbow Haven.
We have heard of classes giving money
for memorials. But never of anything
quite as spontaneous as this gift.

- xs *

ae Ed Theriault eat a pleasant so
journ in New York. After the gaieties

- of Halifax, we were afraid he would find
the American town dull.
e* *

eS Messrs. Granville and Murray of
re. S. B. B. C. have won the right to meet
the title holders—Messrs. Atwood and
Sedgewick—in the challenge round. Atwood and Sedgewick have held the
trophy which is a Gold Loving Cup,
presented by the Earl of Dalhousie for
= annual competition and later found
eet embedded in the foundations of old
aa Dalhousie for two years.
oo. * * *
Sy Dalhousians have been very sorry to
hear of the illness of Mr. G. S. Campbell.
ma as, Monday’s Star reported improvement
: in his condition. ie
Those students who will not be at
Dal next year will please leave their
prospective addresses with the Gazette.
xs *

An executive—J. W. Merritt, F.
Jennings, J. McCleave, K. Grant and
mmell were appointed to look
into the matter of forming a Medical
Book Bureau, where all the texts could
be obtained more cheaply than is now
possible. More definite information will
be given later.
*x* * *
_ The members of the Anatomy classes
maintain that ‘‘Jock” is as proficient on
the stage as when he is giving a quiz.
* * *

Dr. Young had lectured upwards of an
hour on the body foods, carbohydrates,
proteids and fats. Then he inquired
what three foods keep the body in health.
h A student who just had forty winks
Sen of sleep—on seeing Dr. Young looking

in his direction—said, ‘‘Breakfast, dinner

_ * * *

ee The Freshman Class chose the following
officers:
President—Wesley Stewart
Vice-Pres.— Margaret Jubien
Secretary—Anna Maclean
‘Treasurer—Harvey Hebb
> i : i * * * z
__. We are sorry this column is not longer,
but now that spring is here, the life of
WA Ses college ‘‘ain't what it used to
? ' , ‘, 7 r ; 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

—
i

' Sete

AL.
i

   
   
  

Prof.
Bennet, who will be glad to learn that we
are putting words into his mouth for the

  

so interested in birthdays last Friday in

hy at ir 4 ee i iF * * s :
We _haven’t heard of any new _mat----—s- yimonial entanglements lately. Is_ it

Big Jim type) wide lapelled, double
or Kollege Knickers, and feet enclosed
with canary yellow Alpine toed shoes.
Since Gilda Gray demands a man with
a pipe everytime—no college lad is
complete without a blocked bowl steamer.
Dalhousie has no students dressed like
this. Then how can Dalhousie hope to
call herself a college if she hasn’t students
dressing right? Answer me that. Why
some of the Dalhousie students even
wear garters—yes and red hot flannels
too!

Then again, the students don’t talk
right here. It was only the other day
between the Library and the Arts Building that I listened to one student say to
another: “‘Hello Charles, I heard your
father was ill disposed. Is it serious?’’
This is how a real Rah-Rah boy would
say it: “Howdja-dew Chawlee. Ya old
man s’got the heebie-jeebies I hoid.
Gonna kick out and leave ya some
dough, huh?” If the students don’t
talk Collegiate how can we call this a
college?

The girls too, prevent us from being
classed as a college or a_ university.
They don’t wear enough fraternity pins,

they don’t say “Yah” and “Oh de-ah”’

correctly, and worst of all, they are
not nearly dumb enough looking. Why
some of the Dalhousie girls even appear
intellectual—at times.

Senior And Co-Ed

Our college times are nearly done—
The golden patches and the grey

But let us burn an evening more
Before they vanish quite away.

 

Four years—it seems a week ago—
My freshman registration day,
You chinned with sophomores on the
steps
In that familiar co-ed way.

It all seemed so collegiate then
Your boyish bob—your saucy air

And this was college—what had I
A verdant freshman but to stare.

I stared—but what were wonders then
Don’t somehow seem today so vast
Ah—we have changed a bit since then—
Four crowded years are slipping past.

Those Freshman thrills seem paltry now
We look upon them with a smile

Those little heart throbs—we have lived
On mimic triumphs for a while.

This chapter closes, turn the page,
We can’t go back or e’en remain

We're starting on a stiffer course
And we are freshies once again.

* ade

To England

(Horace Ode I, 14)

 

To sea fresh waves will twice waft thee
O ship! What dost thou? Gain the port
With brave attempt! Canst thou not see
Thy sides are naked, no resort

Of oars? Thy south wind weakened mast,
Thy keel sans rope can scarce decline
The impetuous waves o’ercast.

Dast thou not hear thy sail-yards whine?

Thou hast no gods to importune

In such distress, thy sails are maimed.
Despite thy pine in Pontus hewn,
Thy silvan lineage so famed,

Applaud thy race, thy useless name;

The fearful sailor needs trust not

In painted poops. Thy watch proclaim,
Or, be the sport of winds thy lot.

|O thou so late our anxious care,

For whom we yearn and whom adore

With love profound, may’st thou forbear

The sparkling Cyclade sea-wrapt shore!
—G. V. V. Nicholls.

breasted coat, 38 inch ballooned trousers

Ee Oe. Fe ae? =$

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

University?

But the people who are the most
disappointing of all are our professors.
Alas! none of them are absent-minded.
A college without absent-minded professors is about as bad as a doughnut
without a hole, or prohibition in Nova
Scotia, or some of those other bad things.
Why Murray can tell you what your
great-grandfather made in a Philosophy
Sup., October 1786, or who won the
Canadian Curling Championship or anything else about the college you care to
ask him. All the professors remember
everything. They never forget to take
the attendance and always mark you
absent—usually two or three times a
lecture to make sure. Who ever heard
of a Dalhousie prof. putting the cat to
bed and kicking himself down stairs,
as absent-minded professors are wont
todo? That’s why we are not Collegiate,
and why we cannot be acknowledged as
one of the colleges.

There are several other things wrong
with Dalhousie, such as having lectures
and studies, but the unforgiveable thing
happened a couple of weeks ago. I saw
one of the office staff deliberately, as if
intentionally, march out of the office and
post up a notice which read: “Time
Table of Spring Examinations.”” Why
such things are unheard of in real Collegiate Colleges. In all the movies I’ve
ever seen about college life, the Rah-Rah
boys just initiate freshmen, smoke pipes,
drink beer, attend fraternity dances
and win football games in the last minute

 

of play. Anyway, in all the books I was
reading I couldn’t find the word
“examination” mentioned once. If you

don't believe me—‘‘verify the references”’
—read College Humour, Campus Fun,
Co-Ed, College Stories. etc. etc. 1 hope
the new Council, the Dirty Dozen will
at least make Dalhousie a college—so
do the Rollo boys.

“Good-bye”

“Good Luck!”

— Kelly ’29.

The Business Manager

The Business Manager acknowledge
the following subscriptions: Dickey, H. B.
2: Forrest, Jean, 2; Murray, Howard 2
Mellish, Judge $10; Johnson, J. H., 2
Henry, W. A., 3; MacMechan, A., 3
Wallace, Judge, 3; Stewart, J. Mc.G., 3;
Cragg, Dr. Grace, 2; Bonnell, Rev. J., 3;
Forsythe, H. F., 2; Davis, D. G., 2;
MacKinnon, Rey. C., 6; Morton, S. A., 2;
Murray, Dr. F., 4; we acknowledge $1.00
from these: Dalgleish, Dr., Beresford,

 

5
’
;
;
;

Mary, Patterson, Gladys M.; Nicholson, |

Rey. J. W.; Nicholson, Dorothy; Chew, J.;
Ross, Hugh; MacKay, C. C.; Millar,
Ross; Thompson, W. S.; Gardina, O.;

Hattie, Dr.; Ryan, J. L.; Whitman,
A. H.; Thompson, W. E.; Mitchell,
C. H.; Nickerson, J. L.; Stairs, H. B.;

Godfrey, J..W.; MacKenzie, A. 5.;
Munroe, H. F.; Sutherland, D. R.; Woodbury, W. W.; Morrison, Geo. -Peveril,
Helen; McLean, Hon. A. K.; MacKinnon,
A. D.: Neish, Rev. C. W.; Mills, N. M.;
Knox, Vera; Lovett, Percy; Woodill,
Roy; Cameron, Dr. John; Black, W. A.;
MacInnes, H.; MacLennan, C. G.
Copp, Prof.; Palmer, Gertrude; MacKenzie, Dr. D.; Geddes, Erma E.; Goudge,
Rev. T.; Hallett, Edith; Sheffman, Sam;
Faulkner, A. W.; Gushue, R.; Johnson,
Charlotta;

The Ross Print Ltd.

95 ARGYLE STREET

Printers - Publishers
Bookbinders

We specialize in SOCIETY WORK
TICKETS, PROGRAMS
and all kinds of
COMMERCIAL WORK

Orders delivered same day rece‘ ved.

Phone S. 1958

 

WALSH'S
DRUG SI ORE

YOUR DRUGGISTS

SPRING GARDEN RD.
COR. QUEEN sT.

 

    

  

Don’t Envy a Good

Appearance!
Come to Shield’s Barber Shop
and enjoy the benefit of expert
service. Always five of the most
proficient barbers procurable on
hand. Our Hair Cutting is sure
to satisfy. Ladies’ Hair Cutting in
all styles; also Curling, Shampooing
and Massaging. One trial will
convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS
Prop.
41 Sackville St,

 
   
       
        
     
      
 
 

 
   

Phone S 4780

 

Work And Spring

Work, for the spring is coming!
Work while the wind blows wild;
Work while the snow is sparkling,
Work 'mid drifts highpiled.

Work while the spring draws nearer,
Under the winter’s sun;

Work for the spring is coming,
When work can’t be done!!!

 

Work for the spring is coming!
Work while storms hide the moon; ,
Fill these raw days with study,
Spring comes sure and soon,

Give every flying minute

Something to keep in store;

Work for the spring is coming,
When man works no more.

Work for the spring is coming!
Under the threatening skies,
While their cold stars are shining,
Work for winter flies!

Work till the last flake falleth,
Work thru the last storm’s roar;
Work while the winter's flying,
Spring means ‘‘Work no more.”

Ye Gods!

With trembling lips, and saddened teardimmed eyes

I said, ‘‘Kind sir, I fear your camera lies—

My mouth looks queer, alas! what shall
Ido

My sweet engaging smile has suffered too?

My figure sir could never look like this

 

 

 

 

April ist, 1927

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend

Kinley's
THE REXALL
DRUG STORE

For everything in

Drug Store Needs

 

Collars!

. | Dealer’s Text Book.

#
i 3
, a
ae ’
n ;
ay = a
eu oks ie ae er a Sop at a be Ae ya oe
Mae Se ee ede A 4 the® eee | " ie ae ee pa a

 

It does not augur well for future bliss.”’

His cruel, eyes looked haughty, stern and
cold

‘‘Madam” said he, ‘I
your mould.

Our care in smoothing

all the edges of a collar

not only makes it wear

longer but prolongs the life of the shirt worn

with it. Remember your

laundry dollar buys more

conscientious care at this

laundry.

cannot change

Your mouth is queer, your eyes are
crooked too

I ask you straight, what more could
mortal do?”’

My wounded pride could bear to hear no
more

 

 

 

And with a scream, I bounded from his Halifax Steam Laundry
door .

Ye Gods! Heap coals of vengeance on his Se MEE RERRET
head ee

For ‘‘fools rush in where angels fear to

 

 

 
 
 

Up-to-date shop with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

i
‘

ia
The Tuxedo

Is practically a necessity to
every man with any social
activities.

Built to your personal requirements, of fine standard
and

Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Springs Garden Road

  

You know the rest

ALPHA BETA of this alphabet,

but won’t you learn the music from a Music
It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons

Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums

Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

tread.”’
—Jean A. Shaw.
High Class Barber :

We also carry a nice line of Pictures
Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s,

cloth i i
Parrish’s, etc. and tmmungs,

correct in every detail—

$45.00

and Durability

We Invite You to Join Our
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX Smartness

are outstanding features.

Scotia Tailors Ltd.
479 Barrington St.

(Opp. St. Paul’s Ch.)

9
Bob Johnson’s
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle
MAJESTIC THEATRE

      

 

BUILDING
AND A FRIEND OF THE
Cor. GEORGE & BARRINGTON
STREETS COLLEGES

Don’t Neglect Your Appearance

The
Halifax Chronicle

ND

Che Daily Star

 

 

 

 

HE PRINTING DE
PARTMENT of the
Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, is famous for
the quality of its press
work, on Booklets, Catalogues, and all kinds of
Job Printing.

Telephone Sackville 1017

MACLEOD, BALCOM,

—DRUGGISTS—
5 STORES

174 Spr. Garden Rd.
139 Agricola St.

34 MorrisSt.
103 Young St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

HALIFAX, N.S.

 

 

 
