 

 

ee
“
‘
i
=

 

 

 

 

  

eS

  

 

    

 

 

 

VOL. LXIX.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 20th, 1927

NO. 11

 

 

Record Crowd at Glee Club

 

sii Basketballers Make Good

Showing in First League Game

 

 

“Y” Team Wins By | Sporting Speaker

Narrow Margin

 

(By G. K. Macintosh)

VER three hundred spectators saw

the Dalhousie Basketball squad
lose out to the fast ‘‘Y’’ quintette by
two points on Saturday night at the
Y. M. C. A. gymnasium in one of the
most exciting and sensational games
played in this city for years.

After about two minutes of play the
Dal boys got away to a good start in the
first half, and with clean fast passing
and back checking by the forwards they
controlled the ball most of the time.

The period opened with Piers, “Y”’
forward, scoring from a pick up under
the basket to be followed shortly after
by a foul shot for the ‘‘Y’’. Dal then
seemed to get on their feet and Langstroth and Ab Smith each made single
foul shots good and Langstroth scored
on a pass from Brown making the count
3—4 in favor of Dal. ‘‘Y” scored a
field shat and Langstroth netted a rebound and a foul. ‘‘Y" again tied the
score 7—7 and Cox brought the Gold and
Black to the lead following a nice piece of
combination work with Brown and Langs
~~ treth. Brown then scored on a foul and

Cox again scored, running in from the
side. Langstroth netted another foul
shot and “Y” scored three points on a
field basket and a foul. Brown pocketed
two fouls and made a pretty shot coming
down the centre. Langstroth scored
on a foul and ‘‘Y”’ tallied.

Cox and Langstroth were relieved at
this juncture by MacLennan and MacLeod
each of whom scored from the side.
Brown doubled the score with a foul and
the period ended 12—24.

In the second half MacLeod and
Harrison started on the forward line.
The Y. M. C. A. came back strong and
registered four field ,baskets in the first
three minutes. Play then zigzagged
back and forth, baskets being evenly
exchanged for about ten minutes when
the ‘‘Y”’ after several flukey shots from
centre floor tied the count at 32—~32.

(Continued on page 4)

Decision Postponed

We regret that we are unable
to announce the result of the
Alberta-Dalhousie- debate this
week. We'll give you another
guess.

 

OW that the examinations are over

and the various distinctions, passes
and ‘“‘plucks’’ given out, the question
agitating the minds of a great number of
students is, Why are our marks not
given to us? It is a fair question and
et, during the-four years that the writer
as been at Dalhousie, it has never been
answered although he has heard it
regularly after every set of exams.

The only reason ever advanced for the
omission was that the authorities were
afraid that if a student knew that he had
made a high pass in some particular
subject, he would be liable to ‘‘stack up’’
in his work on that subject. That may
be quite true in some cases but in the
great majority, and they are the ones
that really matter, it is not. If a student
has made a high pass, the spirit of competition will make him—ninety-nine times
out of a hundred, try to beat his former
mark and if he has made a very low
pass, he will make doubly sure of passing
by increasing his work in that subject.

Under the present system, a student
works hard and makes a distinction or a

ss. If he is so fortunate as to fall into
the first division then he has no cause for
worry, but if he comes in the second

 

 

Voices Popular Protest

 

 

Gerald Godsoe, Sec.-Treas of the Council,
who will open Sodales debate.

 

Weighty Decisions At
Council Meeting

WILL HOLD $1.25 DANCE

HE Council of the Students held a

busy
last week. The most important items
of business were Students’ Union, report
of the rink committee, a financial statement by the Sec.-Treas. and the decision
to hold a dance to raise some money.

The Council considered a letter from
the Sec.-Treas of the Toronto Council
on the N. U. S.’ The matter was postponed toanother meeting. The Rink
Committee announced that the University generously was going to help out the
students to the extent of $100—not to
be a precedent. The Council's most
important decision was to hold a dance—
tickets $1.25 per couple. The Council
put the dance into the very capable
hands of Murray Fraser.

  

division, then he has reason to be disturbed. He may have made any mark
between 65 and 40 and as the names are
posted in alphabetical order and not in
order of merit, he can get absolutely no
inkling as to how he stands. The consequence is that he makes a wild guess
as to the subject that needs extra work,
half the time guesses wrongly and is
“plucked” in the final exam. On the
other hand, the student who has loafed
on the job and is “ploughed,”’ knows
exactly his standing and every effort is
made to leave him with no delusions on
the subject. Everyone who has ever
written an examination is interested in
the result and to kriow that one has made
a good mark is the source of a very real
pleasure. As it is, the poor student is
given his mark, the good student is not—
a clear case of ‘‘virtue unrewarded.”

If the examiners are at all human, and
we may suppose that they are, since
none of them are to be seen wandering
around with either wings or a harp, they
must be affected by some thoughts of
self. Let them consider the brain-work
saved by publishing the actual marks.
It would effectually stop the verbal

(Continued on Page 4)

. ALLISON PLAYS D

 

meeting Thursday night of |

 

Popular Dance

The students are going to entertain the students at a dance on
Wednesday Jan. 26, under the
auspices of the Council of the
Students and the leadership of
Murray Fraser, Chairman. Tickets are $1.25 a couple. “The
price is popular,’’ the Chairman
told us, ‘‘designed to fit the
purse of the student. Joe Mills
will provide the orchestra. Th’s
is going to be the biggest dance of
the year.’’ We have no intention
of repeating all his superlatives.
The dance will have the biggest
crowd of the year—it will bea
real Dalhousie get-together. This
dance may prove the basis for
similar and regular dances another year. Everybody is going
to the Students’ Dance.

 

 

Law Makers to Oppose
Song Makers

Ree that the writer of popular songs may have more influence
for good than the law makers, is the
subject of the next Sodales debate to be
held on Monday of next week. The
debate will be opened by Miss Josie

Dresner and Herbie Davidson. for the
affirmative: Miss. Helen Wickwire and
Jerry Godsoe for the “negative. The

subject has more implications than are
seen at first glance. It will give the
debaters scope either for humorous or
serious speeches as the spirit moves
them. There will as usual be opportunity given to those who wish to speak
from the floor. Perhaps best. of all,
the Vice. President, Miss Kay Mac
!Lennan will preside, with that inimitable

way of hers.
Hockey in Limelight

S a major sport hockey commands|

attention in the ambit of sportdom
at the present time. As in former years
and, we hope, many years yet to come,
Dal is once more represented: in this|
department of athletics. Activity and}
interest this year will be devoted to
building up an almost new team around
the very few remaining players of last
year. Due to lack of strong available
material, the D. A. A. C. thought it
advisable to temporarily withdraw the
team from the Halifax City League and
confine its activity to Intercollegiate
circles. The Intercollegiate Conference
accepted Dal’s application to enter the
Maritime Intercollegiate Hockey League
placing us in the Western Section. This |
means a match in Halifax against Mt. A. |
and one in Fredericton with U.N. B.

The Dalhousie team is also entered in
the newly-formed Halifax Intercollegiate
Hockey League which is composed of
King’s, Tech., and St. Mary’s. The
purpose of this purely local organization functioning under Intercollegiate
rules is to encourage and develop hockey
in the colleges here in the city, and to
give the different teams matches outside
of the few provided in the Maritime
Intercollegiate schedule. This new Halifax League is an experiment. It’s
objects are certainly worthy and its
success, in fact its very life, depends
upon the enthusiasm and support afforded
it by the students and friends of the
different colleges. It is hoped that
Dalhousie will give her share of support
to the venture. ;

In this league it was thought advisable
to play two games per night with the
idea of cutting down expenses and of
affording an opportunity of each team
nlaving the other more than once. The
admission fee to the two games is 35
cents and certainly within reach of the
average pocket-book.

 

 

Mr. Garvey: “‘I didn’t think a dental
course would be so expensive.”’

Ted: “Yes, dad, in spite of the fact that
I’ve studied the least possible.”’

————_-- $

Glee Club Begins Second Term With

Finest Show Presented in Years

At Sodales

 

ae

  

 

Helen .Wickwire, who will oppose the
song makers at Sodales Monday night.

Thinks Dal Cold To
Canadian Poet

A STUDENT has expressed the opinion

that Dalhousie did not give Wilson
MacDonald a sufficiently warm welcome.
She quotes William Archer: ‘‘Wilson
MacDonald interested me more than
anything in America.’’ She also referred

| to John Manfield’s appreciation of the

poem ‘‘Niagara.’’ Our correspondent
feels that the students are extraordinarily
unenthusiastic and indifferent. She is
inclined to blame this on the professed
opinions of our English faculty. It|
hardly seems fair to censure a_ prof.
because his opinions do not happen |
to coincide with those of William Archer.

What’s Doing

Today

Meds vs Engineers (H)

Anglican Club (Munro
Room 7.30)

21 Dal vs Kings (Senior H)
Wanderers vs Dal (Inter B)

22 Arts vs Commercial (H)
Dent vs Law (B)
Arts A vs Med (B)
Commerce ys Pine Hill (B)
Arts B vs Engineers (B)
St. Georges vs Dal (Sr. B)
Sodales (Munro Room)

25 Law vs Arts (H)

26 The Students’ Dance

27 Engineers vs commerce (H)

28 St. Joseph’s ys Dal (Inter. B)
Mount A. vs Dal (Sr. H)

29 Dents vs Med (H)
Med vs Law (BP)
Dent vs Commerce (B)
Engineers ys Pine Hill (B)
Arts A vs Arts B (B)
Tech. vs Dal (Sr. B)

31 Glee Club (Engineers)

NOTE.—(B) indicates basketball
(H) hockey

 

“So your son is home from college?
Is he taking any interest in the farm?”
‘‘Indeed yes. He showed me where we
could have a fine golf course and what a
fine garage the barn will make.”’
* *& *
A freak dinner in America introduced
a live camel.

 

 

A contemporary remarks | forgotten the Little College:

| John Brookfield the Hit

of Evening

"RHE Glee Club opened its 1927

activities with a “‘bang’’, putting on
before a record audience one of the finest
shows that has been seen in the gymnasium in years.

Budd's orchestra started the evening’s
entertainment by livening the audience
with two snappy jazz pieces. They
also performed again in the fifth act, by
playing that piece named after a Swedish
brand of snuff, ‘‘Copenhagen.” Like its
namesake, it was stimulating.

Mr. Frank Page followed the opening
number with two lively classical piano
solos which were much | appreciated.
Miss Elsie Barnes’ impersonation of
that pet nuisance, the small brother, was
so well done that several members of the
audience were observed to smile feelingly
at each other.

Mr. John Brookfield provided the real
hit of the evening with his two songs.
It was the first time that we have heard
from Mr. Brookfield and the audience
showed no: hesitation in demanding that
they wanted ‘“‘more’’ of him. We would
like to hear from him again. A costume
dance by Miss Jean Fraser and Miss
Mattie Jenks completed the stage performance. Assorted dancing on the main
floor, accompanied by. Mr. Budd and his
orchestra, rounded off an - unusually
pleasant evening.

Mr. Harry Bell and his worthy stage
hands were on the ‘‘spot’’ as usual with
their scene shifting and lighting effects.

The personnel of John Budd's fine
orchestra, which had so much to do with
the evening’s success, is as follows: John
Budd (himself), Forrest Musgrave, Don
Murray, Ken Smith, Fred McLellan,
(Graham Allen), Fat MacKenzie, Doug
Jakeman, Harold Coffin and Bell.

The members of Harry Bell’s team
are: Bill Moran, John Morton, Karl
Hood and Gerald Stairs.

Tea at The Dean’s

Dean and Mrs. Llwyd extend a
cordial invitation to all the Anglican students of Dalhousie-Kings
to take tea with them at their
house, 49 South St., on Sunday
next, January 23, from 4 to 6.

Gives Statement

Editor of the Gazette, Jan.. If, 927.

 

Dear Sir:—I am enclosing a financial
statement of the Council of the Students
during 1925-26, as scrutinized and found
correct by the auditors, Messrs A. E.
Jubien and H. C. Morton.

This statement is usually published
in the Graduation Number of the Gazette,
but due to the absence of such an edition
last year the report could not at that
time be given to the students.

Space will not permit of a more enlarged and perhaps more generally comprehensive report, but to any student
sufficiently interested I would be pleased
to give more detailed information concerning the financing of the Council
controlled organizations.

Very truly yours,

J. GERALD GODSOE,

Sec'y. Treasurer
Council of the Students

Graduates Write

We have been very glad to hear from
the following graduates who have not
Jessie Mac
that the camel probably had all the water Intyre, Dot Berry, Andreas Johanson

present at the banquet also.

and Waldo Swan.

 

AL HERE NEXT THURSDAY

 
 

;
De is Yi
= i (

 

 

z

= ; — .
Pe A
EC ‘
t- 7 — th 
a waters eb

 

 

e Dalhousie Gasette

(Founded 1869).

» \Eeitor.
ANDREW HEBB,

Associate Editors:
AVIS MARSHALL
FREDA WINFIELD
HERBERT DAVIDSON
JAMES A. FRASER
GEORGE MacINTOSH

Gazette D’s:

MARY A. BERESFORD
J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
F. A. CRICHLOW
SIDNEY GILCHRIST
ARTHUR L. MURPHY

Business Manager.

J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
348 Robie St.
we 2 ater Phone S. 1935

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year.

 

 

Trial and Experiment

 

HE university ison trial—students may be ruining their minds,

professors and administrators may

university has not necessarily come to stay;
These are possibilities which we cannot

There are many—university graduates among them—who

outlived its usefulness.
ignore.

be wasting their lives. The
already it may have

consider the Arts course at least a waste of time: others who think
the university is injurious, that it destroys originality and stereotypes

students.

harm there is none who thinks that it
changing

not only that it must change with
satisfy present needs.
ever experimenting,

It therefore ;
to be trying out the multitude of present-day

educational ideas and to be working out theories for itself.
As a matter of fact universities experiment very

Even among those who believe it to do more good than

has reached its final form—
times, but that it fails to

behooves the university to be for
little. That

is apparent from their uniformity: there are few differences, except

in age and size, among the universities of America.
Others wait and adopt the result of a few
might have had the benefit of many.

of course experiment.
experiments where they

Some universities

Perhaps the world would be better off if there could be patents

on educational as on commercial discoveries:

then the univer
sity, forced to emulate the initiative of the manufacturing concern,

would become an intellectual centre and, paradoxically,
manufacturing concern than it is today!
Experiments, it is true, mean mistakes.

a mistake?

less of a

Who is afraid to make

Dalhousie should make more mistakes—and in making them

make more progress.
she? Her professors talk

Dalhousie should set her students atfire.
about experiment, point out its necessity,

Does

conduct laboratory experiments: meanwhile there is ever present in

the student’s mind a university which, 1
It is the old ‘practice what you preach’ trouble; Dalhousie

periment.

does not believe what she teaches—she is insincere.

in its pursuit, does not ex
That there is

perhaps no one man at Dalhousie who is primarily an educationalist—

strange though it may be—should

in education has an intrinsic value

not deter adventure.
for a university: whether or not it

Experiment

results in better teaching for the future, it is an invaluable object
lesson—it teaches the student pictorially and therefore indelibly to

think for himself, to experiment.

There are many experiments which

Dalhousie might make—any one of which would raise the university

ten times in the respect of its members.

Dalhousie might, for example,

offer ‘the option of compulsory lecture attendance or non-compulsory

attendance and a higher passmark to senior students in Arts.

Dal
housie might make attendance at a particular class voluntary. These
are just examples of many ventures Dalhousie might make to advantage.
There is reason not to be content with merely adopting the

experiments of other universities.
what they have of value, but we

schemes may not be suitable for us. ity 1
for the better teachers its size enables

for example, that if it were not

it to procure, compulsory attendance would be unjustifiable.

It is up to us of course to adopt
must realize that their ideas and
A large university might feel,

Again,

universities which we follow unquestionably may not be in the habit
of producing university presidents—their end may be, instead of

visionaries, citizens w th safe minds.

Dalhousie cannot afford to teach

her students not to experiment, not to think, to wait patiently

till somebody discovers what they want.

dwarfs the university’s utility.

There is no reason why Dalhousie, nor any other sm
should not lead the world. A small university, if it does not

sity,

Mere following footsteps

small univer
imitate too strenuously the larger ones and works within its strength,

will produce, other things being equal, :
greatness is her best. What guarantee have we that God

better mena university's
did not

intend that Nova Scotia should be another Greece, and Dalhousie

the central light?

make more experiments, more mistakes, and more progress.

Da'housie must help herself—Dalhousie must

Let us

strive that we may truly say: All roads lead to Dalhousie; Dalhousie

leads in all roads.

 

 

 

Dallusiensia
This week’s questions are:

1. When was the Law School founded?

2. What paper other than the Gazette
have Dalhousie students published?

3. What degree did the university
formerly give which it doesn’t give now?

—_——_—_- —

The answers to last week’s questions are:

1. The following students of Dalhousie
were included in the Halifax contingent
to the North-West in 1885:—Lieut.

~ Whitman, B. A., LI. B.; Lieut. Hensley,
B. A. (2nd year, Law); Sergt. Hare,
(Hospital Corps); Pvt. Macdorald, B. A.;
Pvt. Millar, B. Sc.; Pvt. Tupper (Law);
Pvt. Ross, (Arts); Pvt. Dockerty, (Gen'l).
The following are old students of Dal\ousie:—Capt. H. Humphrey, Capt.
. W. DeB. Bremner; Lieut. J. Bremner,
Privates Cameron and J. Pitblado of
90th Battalion.
In March 1885 the Senate turned

2.

Dal Cubs Win

The Dalhousie Intermediate team won
over the St. George’s five in a regular
league fixture at the Y. M. C. A. gym.
last Friday night by a 21—20 score.

Harrison, forward, was the best man
on the college representation, netting
most of the points for his team.

This is the second game which the
intermediate team has won in as many
contests, defeating St. Mary’s’ on
January 7th.

Dal. lineup—dHarrison, Sperry, Clark,
Forwards; Guard, Macintosh, Brown;
Center, Ross.

‘‘We're intellectual opposites.”’

‘*Be explicit.”
_ “I'm intellectual and you’re the opposite.”’

down a petition for optional Latin in
fourth year Arts.

3. In 1883-84 students wore crimson
as a college color. The practice of
wearing colors fell off in the following
yer.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

January 20th, 1927

 

 

So Our Graduates May Know

 

UST before Christmas, following the
$35,000 gift of Colonel R. W. Leonard,
of St. Catherines, Ontario, Dr. G. S.
Campbell announced a second gift—

a collection of reproductions, original
prints, textiles, books and photographs
from the Carnegie Corporation for the
teaching of the fine arts. Although
published in the daily newspapers at the
time, we have been asked to give some
account of the gift—-particularly for the
benefit of graduates.

Dr. Campbell says of the gift:

“If Dalhousie had attempted to gather
this collection for herself it would have
entailed an expenditure of not less than
$10,000. Dalhousie is one of three
Canadian universities, the others being
Toronto and Queen’s, to be the recipients
of similar collections from the Carnegie
Corporation. This fact is significant
in its recognition of the work Dalhousie
is doing and of the place that she has
achieved as one of the national universities of Canada. A room in the University will be specially set apart for their
display.”

The following description of the nature
and purpose of these gifts is taken from
the statement of the Carnegie Corporation
concerning them :—

The art collections for use in the
teaching of art in the colleges, on which
the Carnegie Corporation has been at
work for more than a year, are now complete and ready for distribution to twenty
colleges in the United States and Canada.

The collections—reproductions, original
prints, textiles and books—are designed
to stand as a systematic representation
of the evolution of Occidental art. In
them are shown the works of outstanding
men, of different periods, different
schools, different techniques and distinctive cultures. With such a collection
an instructor can make his references in
the concrete. He can illustrate a generalization. A student can have aesthetic
truths visualized. The canons of art
are studied in art’s objects rather than
in the abstract—which is the only way
they can be understood, even if they can
be studied otherwise.

It is the belief of the Carnegie Corporation that the effective diffusion of
culture, to the aid of which it is in its
charter dedicated, is unchecked only
where there is an appreciation of the
arts. In a country without a deeprooted culture whose exhalations are

 

|

| special

taken in from birth there must be educ
ation in the arts antecedent to their
appreciation. Except in the more richly

endowed colleges and in institutions in
or near the few metropolitan centers
with museums of great resource, the
raw materials for the teaching of art
have been lacking. The institution may
have been eager to give art courses, it
may have had instructors keen and able
to conduct them and students eager to
take them; but with books alone and the
spoken word the arts cannot be taught or
learned. For purposes of experiment the
Carnegie Corporation has filled the void
for twenty institutions, which have
expressed a similar desire to make the
experiment and have been deemed favorable for the experiment.

The major unit of the collections—
which are virtually identical for each
college—is a set of 1,800 reproductions
of the greatest works in architecture,
sculpture and painting. Of these approximately one-quarter are in color facsimile.
They have been taken from the best
collections of reproductions in the world
where possible; where subjects wanted
have not existed in reproduction special
reproductions have been made for this
purpose. The second unit is a set of
fifty original prints, showing different
processes of print-making and the work
of different periods and notable men.
In the earlier period are Ura Graf, Durer.
Hans Leonhard Schaufelin and _ the
engraved portraits of the 17th century.
Among later men are Goya, Daumier,
Richard Barlom, Delacroix, Meryon,
Raffet, Corot, Manet, Turner, Whistler.
Third is a collection of 35 textiles dating
from antiquity to our own day, chosen
to illustrate design, color geography,
period and technique, from Coptic
tapestry weave to our own products.

The books constitute a good working
library in the history of art and the
analysis of all the arts, including decoration and the decor of the theater.
They are in English, French and German,
some of them equally valuable in text
and reproduction; some on the arts in
general, some on definite arts, some on
periods, others on individuals.
The art book shops of the art capitals
of the world have been combed to get
twenty copies of each work, some of
which are rare. Finally, there is a
catalogue, annotated in some. detail,
which is itself an admirable example of
the graphic arts.

 

 

 

Memoirs Of A Young
Man At College

HERE should be no need for a

young man like me to make excuses for the writing of his Memoirs.
Even in a class as distinguished as ours,
I have always been prominent: and |
have this Xmas reached a pinnacle of
prominence, and, in a modest way, of
glory, being plucked in every subject; so
qualifying myself for admission to the
ranks of the socially elect, who, when
really elect, are universally given this
mark of their position.

My family has always been distinguished,-in more than one way. My
father has known more than one Chief
Justice, to speak to personally, and has
often had the benefit of their advice.
‘Smith’, said one of them, ‘You damned
reprobate, this jury has acquitted you.’
‘My Lord,’ said my father, ‘do you
consider it right for a Chief Justice to use
profanity on the Bench? Fy, my Lord!’

I remember this but indistinctly, being
only seven years of age, and in the extreme
rear of the court; but I have reason to
think that my father’s remonstrance
did him little good, for I did not see him
again for several years.

He was well known and esteemed in the
city: | have the honour of resembling
him somewhat in feature, and even the
policemen I meet down town have little
difficulty in recognizing me, even going
so far as to say on occasion that | am a
chip of the old block; so well was my
father known, though I do not know
that I have ever spoken to one, having
inherited an abhorrence for their uniform.
I have heard an editor of one of our evening papers say, that often he would not
have known what to do, had it not been
for my father,

This social prominence has not been
confined to the Smith side of the family,
although grand-mother almost disgraced
herself on one occasion. Being invited
to the governor’s levee, she found at the
moment of setting out, that one of the
whalebones in her stays was broken, and,
in spite of her efforts, persisted in sticking
into her ribs so sharply that in desperation
she came without stays at all. After the
usual ceremonies, His Honor sees grandmother, and cries out, ‘Why, here is
Miss March!’ and has his musicians
strike up a valse. He put his arm about
her waist, and swept her off into a dance
before she could protest; though she
blushed, as some of the cats said, immodestly enough, down to her toes. Not
being invited to dance, they were quite
naturally very quick to criticise her and
presently discerned that she was still
embarassed, and His Honor not at all
at his ease, which set their tongues to
whispering; then some days later Mr.
March, my great-great-grandfather, overheard some young buck say in a public

 

place that his daughter had danced with
the Governor without stays on.

Mr. March set down his glass untasted, letting a roar out of him, with
such a blow of his fist on the table that
everyone in hearing jumped; adding
several expressions that requested the
speaker, whoever he was, to say it again.
When no one answered, and he had asked
several times, he finally announced that
it wasa damn lie. ‘Ods fish!’ said he,
‘lama man of honour; and this shall stop
now, or I shall have satisfaction.’

With that he rose and marched straight
to the Governor’s, followed by all who
had been in the public house with him,
and knocks boldly at his door. ‘Tell the
Governor,’ says he fiercely to the footman,’ that Mr. March will see him down,
on ‘a matter of honour,’ slapping the
sword at his side. When His Honour
appeared, “By God, Sir,’ says grandfather, ‘here are people who say that
you have spread it about that you have
danced with my daughter, without her
stays on.’

‘Well, Sir,’ says the Governor.

‘Damme,’ says Mr. March, ‘Is it true?’

‘It may be, Sir,’ says the Governor.

‘lL am a man of honour,’ says Mr.
March.

‘And I, Sir,’ adds the governor.

‘Well, Sir,’ says my grandfather in a
low voice, with a quality of steel in it,
‘there is not a bar in Halifax that I don’t

‘own; and I'll close every one, if needs be,

to have satisfaction. Zounds! Sir,’ said
he, ‘no man of honour could take such a
statement, traducing his daughter's good
name.

There was a low murmur from the crowd;
and finally, after a moments pause in
which he grew very white, the Governor
spoke.

‘You are right, Sir,’ says he at last‘
‘and [| withdraw any hasty and _illadvised statements which I may have
made of your dauzhter.’ ,

‘Thank you,’ says my grandfather, ‘my
honor is satisfied. Good morning Sir,’
and from that moment, by reason of
his courageous and decisive action, is
the greatness of our family dated, on
my mother’s side.

(These memoirs may be continued)

Mother: ‘‘l heard you talking to yourself while you were taking your bath
Rudolph. That's a bad custom.”’

Rudy: ‘‘Gee, I wasn’t talking to myself.
I was talking to the soap; I slipped on it
and fell.”

*x* * *

The tighter you squeeze a peach the
mushier it gets.

Dance?

Central —Number?

He —S 4516

Central —Nickel

He Damn!

She —Hello!

He —Dot?

She —Yes!

He —Howshegoing?

She —Jake

He —Councildance?

She —Yes

He —Withme?

She —No!

He —Qh!

She —Sorry!

He —Gimmedance?

She —Sure!

He —Fifth?

She —Say how do you get that
way—the best I can give you
now is the eighth extra at
the 1928 Convocation Ball.
Why don’t you let me know
ahead if you want a dance,
dumbell?

He —Gone

Central —Number?

He —Nothanks!

To You

[I dote upon you, gracious unknown
Madam,
With passion that you maybe won't
believe,— ;
Probably more than any son of Adam
Has ever doted on a child of Eve.

What causes this inordinate affection?

What is the lure that draws my heart to
you?

What is the principle of this selection

Excluding all humanity but two?

The fact that you have looked upon my
stubble, :
That you have read what any male would
spot
[mmediately—even without the trouble
Of glancing over it—was utter rot.
—Bee.

 

Peace

 

Peace I find at last

Down by the gray-green sea.

In the slow waves’ rhythmic rush—
The restful pines say ‘‘Hush”’,
Their arms outstretched

To shield and comfort me.

Fruit ¥ dealer:
Alligator pears.”’

Mrs. Newlywed: ‘‘No, we don’t even
keep a goldfish.”’

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

“We have some fine

 

 

The following committee of the Students’ Council is in charge of the dance:

Murray Fraser, Avis Marshall, Reg
Baxter, Murray Rankin and Gerald
Godsoe.

* * *

Another Med dance is numbered with
the past. It was a great success, both

socially and financially. Many old
friends paid the annual visit, and as
usual the Med dance came up to ex
pectations.
* * *
She: “‘I dreamed last night that I was
married to the world’s greatest poet.”’
Wilson MacDonald: “And were we
happy?”
* * *
Get the right people and there will
always be a good time. That’s why the

students’ Dance is going over big—
everybody will be there.
. xk * *

Moot Court will resume its sittings
next Wednesday when C. F. MacKenzie
and L. A. Ryan will act for the appellants
and J. J. L. Atwood and M. A. Rogers,
who has just returned from a strenuous
campaign in Guysborough, will represent
the respondents. Judge, C. J., Huggins,
J., and Theriault, J., will be on the bench.

* * *

The first Delta Gamma meeting of the
session was held at Shirreff Hall on
Friday, Jan 14th. Several questions
came up for discussion. It was decided
that Delta Gamma should put on a
Glee Club show, and a committee was
appointed to take care of the matter.
[here was considerable discussion of a
C. G. I. T. Conference, but nothing was
decided.

The next meeting will be held at the
Halifax Ladies College, Miss Blackwood
having kindly offered to entertain the
Society. It is expected that a debate
will take place that evening between
Delta Gamma and H.L.C.

* OK ok

There was a striking innovation in
college affairs when the Sociology Club
elected to hold a meeting on Sunday
afternoon in the Munro Room. The
president, Fletcher Smith, was in the
chair. Dr. Riddell was the speaker and
delivered a most instructive and interesting address on the I. L. O. There
were several questions from the floor,
but we should like to hear much more
discussion at these meetings.

This was the first meeting to which the
general public were invited. The idea
of a Sunday afternoon lecture seems to
be a good one, and the large attendance
undoubtedly justified the experiment.

 

 
   
  

Wet Gakesperian Tragedy
i ala Mode

 

Act I.—Scene I
Summer. Three freshmen visit Dalhousie.

First Fresh. And how are opportunities
at Dalhousie?

Prof.

All. Very well then, we shall come.
(Ah! caught in the net.)

Excellent, excellent.

Scene II.

The three freshmen register and are
relieved of their money. They hand it
over without a protest, making no armed
resistance.

(Experience teaches fools.)

Act II. Scene I.
The plot begins to thicken. Campus.
Three freshmen. Three sophomores.

First Soph. Hello freshie!

First Fresh. Shut up!! ’

Third Soph. Oh, ho! ah, ha! You will,
will you?

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
    
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

Exeunt fighting.
(Freshmen taste the poison of a first
defeat.)
Scene II

After first week of Classes

First Fresh. Wow do you find your
studies?

Sec. Fresh. Waven’t found them yet.
Third Fresh. Me, neither. But say!
I’ve met the cutest babies, they can’t be

beat. :
(The Faculty are not responsible for the
sentimental views of freshmen.)

Scene III.
Early in November

First Fresh. How did you make out

in the quiz?
‘Sec. Fresh. Just fair, I think I got
through. :
Third Fresh. 1 did rotten!
(Do not imitate. This scene is copyrighted.)
Act III. Scene I.

Last of November

First Fresh. Doing any study?

Sec. Fresh. 1 took a look through some
of my books and | am just beginning to
find out how little I know.

Third Fresh. I\'m banking on the week
before exams to do my cramming in.

Scene II. _
Studley gymnasium
The three freshmen are meeting their
common adversary for the first tume.

Scene III.

Professor marking papers. His pencil
is in the shape of a blood-red sword, tipped
with poison. The spirits of the three
freshmen guard their papers,

Third Fresh. My bombast is unbeatable.

Prof. Weshall see.

Makes a stab, punctures the hot atr of
the third freshman, and latter dies. ]

Second Fresh. 1 am a little afraid of

you.

Prof. 1 told you freshmen that the
opportunities here were excellent. I
wish I could say the same about your
answers. ie

They fight and both come off uninjured.

First Fresh. Are you ready? Get
set! Go!

Prof. Another easy win.

But the firct freshman is armed with thd
double-edged sword of perfect answers and
immediately kills the professor.

(Go thou and do likewise.)

Curtain descends as the strains of the
“Dead March in Saul” are heard.

VICTOR SNARR.

Casino Notes

 

oe als |
_ “The Great K. and A. Train Robbery”
said to be the greatest thriller Tom Mix
hs BS ever made is to be the chief attraction
- at the Casino theatre this week-end.
Briefly, the story concerns the adventures
Of the detective, played by Tom, in
running down a gang of desperados who

ave consistently robbed K. and A.
ains. The film is based on Paul

ster Ford’s great story and in
jon to Mix and ety aoe
» plays opposite him, has William
Hing, Harry Grip, Carl Miller and
ward Piel in the cast.

_ “Fig Leaves” is the attraction for the

\ three days of next week at the
sino. This production has a splendid
; which includes such favorites as
ve Borden, George O’Brien, Phyllis
ver and Charles Conkin and is highly
mmended by the trade critics. Variety
's “From all sides it looks like a conous winner because of its many
ues of approach to the fan public.
no trick at all to predict for this
tion a notable box-office record.”

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The Gazette’s Sensational Short Story

Page Three
Finish It Today

Are Acquired Characteristics Inherited?

ee ee |) > me SE wo (a) 96 1 A (| (|) A) ee ee (come

HERE is in the Fatherland—mean
ing dear old Germany, where the
Dutch company came from, you know—
a town called Lunenburg. There was
in fact some years ago—when Hans
was born.

Hans Ejishauner was born in Lunenburg of ordinary though wealthy
people, who brought him up in an ordinary though wealthy way, an ordinary

 
  
    
  

|
|
|

though wealthy boy. He played games,

made pies of mud, and by fifteen had
fallen in love a dozen times.

a man—some three or four years after
leaving the gymnasium.

He commenced work, when he left the
insistence of his
ather, who believed work essential to
Hans, though he knew of

mnasium, at the
happiness.
course that the old man’s opinion was so
much tommyrot, went to work with good
grace. Neither distinction nor disgrace
came to him. In society he was a success
—that is, a man of many love affairs.
He would make in the way of ladies
five or six killings a year. Not very
many perhaps—though a lot when you
consider that he managed not to fall
very hard himself for any of them.

One day he fell for a lady for fear.
That is to say, a trouser leg caught, in
passing a young lady, on an unfastened
overshoe and he fell prostrate on the
pavement striking his head. He was
never the same afterwards—he never
recovered from the accident. When
he returned to work he exhibited a new
energy—he worked furiously. His reason
became evident when one day he asked
the boss for a raise. He did not get it.
The firm soon began to miss money and
the boss, remembering Hans's disappointment at not getting a raise, fired him. _

The boss was right: Hans had a mania
for acquiring marks, which in those days
were worth something. Every mark
that Hans could get from his father he
treasured. He rented some rooms where
he might live alone with his marks. In
time Hans became one of the most
expert burglars that ever cracked a
safe or a smile. He baffled the efficient
police of Lunenburg, who never thought
to suspect the son of a wealthy father.
All the time his pile of marks, into which
he always converted his booty, grew.
Hans handled bis marks daily with love
and care. They were no use to him—
it was just to have them.

The mystery of Lunenburg increased;
its fame went far and wide. In vain
the local police called on Hamburg
detectives. Still the wonder grew. One
day an officer passing Hans’s rooms on
his beat smelt an odour, which was
stronger than sweet. Fearing that a
Limburger cheese within was doing somebody bodily harm, the officer dashed madly into the house where Hans lived.
Making his way to the source of the
odour, he broke open the door into
Hans’s rooms where he found him
smothered to death among his marks.
Hans had piled up marks until there
was no room left to breathe. Marks
had been the death of him.

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N. S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

Barrington St.,
Sack. 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

 

WINNERS From fhe

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

   
 
 
 
 
  

He grew
up quickly, so quickly in fact that at the
end of twenty-one years he had become

The facts of this strange case went all
over the country. A fine, normal,
boy; brought up in an ordinary way;
had an accident; gave him a mania for
acquiring marks; marks were the death
of him. A scientific body in Berlin—
the Imperial Society for the Unravelling
of God's Mysteries—learned of Hans
Eishauner and his remarkable history
with great interest.

“What an opportunity,’’ said one of
them, ‘‘to settle for all time whether
acquired characteristics are inherited.
I wonder if Eishauner has any children.”

A wire to the Chief of Police at Lunenburg elicited the reply that he had not.
The consternation which followed was
unnecessary, for the very next week the
Lunenburg police discovered a_ child
which was beyond doubt the son of Hans
Eishauner. The Berlin Society, determining to make the suggested experiment,
purchased the child from its mother.

The Society began to seek suitable
surroundings for its experiment. The
Society was puzzled: it wanted to bring
Hans up in Lunenburg, but it was afraid
to try the experiment there, where
everybody would know the circumstances.
At last one member of the Society, having
an extraordinary knowledge of the world
and its parts, recalled that there was
another Lunenburg, which, he thought,
was in America. He found on research
that it was on the south shore of Nova
Scotia, a province of Canada.

The members of the Imperial Society
for the Unravelling of God’s Mysteries
sat about the great table in their banquet
hall, drinking glass after glass of Germany’s best wines. They~ were celebrating.

“This will mark a turning point in the
science of heredity,’’ declared the President; ‘‘To find another Lunenburg is
wonderful, to find it in a different country
is perfect. This will be the fairest trial
the theory that acquired characteristics
are inherited has ever received.”’

The Society changed the name of the
young Ejishauner to Isnor; and gave
him with the Christian name of Herman
to some good and well-to-do Lunenburg
people, also of the name Isnor, who
agreed to bring him up as their own son.
Hans’s accident, the Society had learned,
happened at the age of twenty-one years,
seven months, and five days; the Society
therefore expected, as it was an exponent
of the acquired characteristic theory,

Dal and King’s meet
to-morrow night at
the Arena in the first
League game. Let’s
show them that
King’s & Tech aren’t
the only ones with a
90% attendance.

35 cents anywhere.

\) Ww , yVACE Oo

ma GbE WELL Sep
Se

%
CAN And

=
oh ers rt ~<
*

t v

O
~
2

ey

<
Laing. wey

To readers of
The Dathousie Gazette

we recommend

Kinley's
THR REXAEL
DRUG ‘STORE

For everything in

Needs

Drug Store

 

AN 3 >»
—<——Z ea

By MILES STANDISH

AUTHOR OF
“Quite Well at the Seaside,” ‘‘Is Spinach
- Nuirtitous?’’ .etc., etc.

OO) | | (ABO A) ) (ee (em <a ag

= ae

that when Herman became the same age
he would exhibit an idiosyncrasy similar
to his father’s mania for acquiring marks.

The Isnors brought up Herman,
exactly as the Eishauners had brought
up Hans, in an ordinary though wealthy
way, an ordinary though wealthy boy.
He played games, made pies of mud, and
by fifteen had fallen in love a dozen
times. Just as his father had—except
that the games, mud, and girls were
now Canadian. The Berlin Society
hugged itself as it heard, from its
detective, these indications that
Herman was a chip of the old block.
Surely its theory would triumph!

Herman, like Hans, commenced work
only at the insistence of his father (or
foster father.) Herman went to work,
which was an Arts course at the University of Dalhousie, with good grace. The
Isnors chose Dalhousie because that.
institution offered, there being a great
industrial slump in Nova Scotia and the
other universities having moderate standards, the only work in the provincé.
Neither distinction nor disgrace came to
him. The Berlin Society learned with
satisfaction that like his father he was
a bit of a rogue with the women.

“It is for the world’s greatest cause,”
the President said, ‘‘—Science!”’

The day began to approach—the day
when Herman would be _ twenty-one
years, seven months, and five days old.
Herman was now beginning his senior
year at college.

Der Tag arrived. A_ disappointed
detective wired the Imperial Society for
the Unravelling of God’s Mysteries as
follows: ‘Herman twenty-one years, seven
months, and five days old today. Nothing
happened. Stayed in his rooms all day.”
A week later: ‘‘Herman still quiet. Goes
directly from classes to Library to rooms.
No burglaries in vicinity.”

This went on for months. Christmas
examinations came and passed. Herman
got first divisions in everything, but as
names were published alphabetically one

“BIRKS DIAMONDS are more
than ‘just Diamonds’. Flawless purity and exquisite perfection
in cutting and mounting have

raised the BIRKS DIAMOND

to the standard of the ‘‘gem of

of gems’’.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS

LIMITED

Diamond Merchanis HALIFAX

 

A FRIEND OF THE
COLLEGES

The
Florning Chronicle

AND

Che Evening Echo

Majestic

‘‘Mismates”’

With DORIS KENYON and
WARNER BAXTER

ALSO

Jay Eff’s Pierrot

ORCHESTRA

      
             
  

  

MON.-TUES. & WED.

“Variety”

THE GREATEST PICTURE
OF THE YEAR

Strand
Rin-Tin-Tin

I
“Find Your Man”

      
 

 

 
 

 

   

could not tell how well he had done.
Herman continued to be quiet and to
spend all spare time in his rooms. The
Society received the reports with disappointment. It clung, as a drowning
man to a straw, to Herman’s very quietness.

The spring examinations came. If
nothing happened by their completion
the Society was going to quit the experiment. ‘The detective too was by this
time a sad man. The examinations
ended and nothing had happened—the
disappointed detective prepared to leave
the city.

Some days later, being still in Halifax,
he decided for the fun of the thing to
visit Herman. A few minutes after
entering Herman’s rooms he _ was
rushing to a telegraph office.

He wired the Imperial Society for the
Unravelling of God's Mysteries as follows:
“Acquired characteristics inherited. Found
Herman dead in rooms today. Body
emaciated. Pass list on table. Led
all classes. High firsts. Worked himself to death. At twenty-one years,

seven months, and five days got mania
for acquiring marks.
death of him.”

Marks were the

 
     
  
 
   
  
 

For the News
When it is News

Read
THE

HALIFAX
HERALD

AND
THE

EVENING
MAIL

 
 

The Greatest Asset of a business is
give customers what they want—
when they want tt.

Job and Society Printing

always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

 

 

~ CASINO

THIS WEEK-END

TOM MIX
IN

“The Great K& A
Train Robbery”

Tho Greatest Western Thriller of
this Great Western Star.
SERIAL COMEDY

 

First 3 days next week

“Fig Leaves”

With Olive Borden, George
O’Brien and a star cast.

 

Jan. 17-18-19
“Padlocked’”’

20-21-23
RUDOLPH VALENTINO
“Son of the Sheik”

 

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM,

—DRUGGISTS— Ltd.
5S STORES

174 Spr. Garden Rd,
139 Agricola St.

34 Morris St.
103 Young St.

Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.
HALIFAX, N.S.

 

 
 

    

“AS WE

(COUNCIL GIVES STATEMENT
(Continued from page 1.)

 

 

 

WERE SAYING

    

 

DALHOUSIE BASKETBALLERS
(Continued from page 1)

From this time on it was anybody’s

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Almost A Derelict

HE Virginia rolled lazily at her
moorings with each succeeding ground
swell. It was mid afternoon of a sultry
day, late in August, the kind of weather
in which a nap appeals to one more than

island. She was a good sized sloop
and was scudding along with the wind
in her teeth, her glistening underbottom
plainly visible as her reefed mainsail
responded to what was now the beginning
of a driving gale. She crossed my bow

January 20th, 1927

If you are
buying

 

‘a t of Receipts and Expend- ; ras on schedule, a report ; eC)
ss maar itures 1925.26 is game, ‘‘Y” scored from centre and Te this “cat 7 iad to be away. = | | about a quarter mile away, licking along HOC Ky E, Y
Langstroth followed shortly alter with a sauntered down the hill toward the | at a good ten knots, her sail are 2
Expend- |pretty basket from the side. Brown wharf, | thought what a prosaic existence and her keel showing up a we re
. Receipt atures then scored under the basket but the! 93. pad to be content with in these her occupants heads were visible. i. SI IPPLIES
Balance 24-25........ $ 83.74 “Y" evened the tally when they notched quiet uneventful days. A thoroughly | attempts on my part to attract ae »
Student Fees........ 4650.00 a rebound. Langstroth and Murley! 20. worthy boat, a perfectly reliable by shouting and waving proved use a
. each counted one foul shot. This left enginé—with such as these what could Quick action was necessary. ae y
Council— the score 37—37 with twenty seconds to happen? But marine engines are strange I remembered a rusty tin horn inst e the
SS eS eee aera $ 182.50|g0, both teams were frantic for the animals and can act like nothing under cabin evidently intended to serve as a for a team or
See.-tréas... § 5.2! ts 100.00| winning counter and one of the “Y heaven when the mood takes them, as fog a eae Sette eS
Handbook..........- 156.00 154.25] forwards sunk the ball in the net after anyone with experience can_ testily. ood. pe is nee ; ea (dicht for yourself—
Tel., Stat., €€C. .....- 132.63 | receiving a short pass from a throw in| tiGw a little oil in the wrong place was | 4S ee ee ant pa ; aa core. e
Genetake ts 20.8 ase 83.17 231.44) under their basket, ending the game to make all the difference between a gehen cenorous blast sounc ec a aa
ols Accts. 24-25...... 22.48) with Dal on the wrong end of a 39—37 smoothly running machine ae a useless oe pce Rer go va ee eta ;
= | score. ‘ rap, | was soon to discover. a mS ae beatae as EY S
$ 239.17 $ 823.30] George Langstroth was the outstanding ee a ale, I rowed out | they achtsmen. Chey came eee ae PHIN N
mAs A.C. player on the floor, his passing and ya avy moorings and was soon off at an Sie sane  alaproanted, and a a eae
Football.) e.0 fe. 511.48 1198.98] shooting being a feature of the peed eight knot clip to my observation station, ing BE Pan etn me gee: oe
Plockey <2. Sie t 283.16 702.64] Brown at center also turned in a splendic hoping for a fair wind and the right tide | § aIheG t ee one: tow a Se g
Basketball. .....-.-: 41.90 272.17 performance, his speed and aggressiveness | +5" cet me back at an early hour. I an unevent u return trip landed ce
Gefteral. 00.4 6. 6665: 94.80] resulting in many timely baskets, esi little thought as I sat on the coaming ree aa te a git ee pei
ols Accts. 24-25...... eer 8e former Acadia and beard stan, Serle: grasping the wheel, that many hours fos De ae perme Bee aie ‘a I
———|his first game under Dalhousie co ae must pass before I should see again the | Uve ae o oe, country ris
$ 836.54 $2316.94 showed up well in the initial per familiar white house on the hill, _ at = Rau HIGHS a quite fired, eer
Glee Club— but didn’t seem to hit his stride in a I knew my course by heart. Grave's pee a ae or the ea eee
“Honi Soit’’......--- 97.50 96.95) second stanza. Clyde Sperry was su shoal, Lobster Claw, Lynch spit, Quaker with possibly elise ts Siow. "

(this including permanent equipment)
Graduation Play..... 1101.98 791.

 

 

 

ols Accts 24-25.....
 

$ 284.25 $ 705.12

stituted in the first period for Ab Smith
(guard), who had four personal fouls

 

VOICES POPULAR PROTEST
(Continued from page 1.)

Light, Round island reef, all were old
landmarks and required little attention,

again with a few choking splutters ane
p the

back-fire. I repeated
An

an angry

 

 

 
  

  
      
     
 

 

 
   
  

 

and DARTMOUTH

 

 

Smart Suits and

 

 

 

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.

oo Sai ok pots, played lke 2 [404 with the steady throb of the cngie’ ar Overcoats
———— | firs : : , : as a background | was letting my B i
: ge yar wieder to [cite forward ithrouels September | FOR COLLEGE MEN
exe another year at Dalhousie—when s . sain .
Grant 25-26. 52. Dict eaten, | fy 7 fotioed thot the former texts Bes) LADIES AND $18 $20 $24
POD siete © « Se ; es ae xxhaust he . 2 Wn eee S
— the *Y" are a fast and smooth working | °F, {hE “Itt ocame intermittent, lab- GENTLEMEN: |
$1000.00} team and all credit is due them for their etd. a ee time in a - wheezy 3 EAL Less 10% on presentation of
D. G. A. C.— win of Saturday night. Their rally ‘soe ib on ae oe aI could do and| || YOU WILL FIND THAT OUR Dr Aus ©: ticket at
Ground Hockey.....- 85.53] in the last half was nothing short of mir- fin Ihr an — dead. I turned over the
Basketball.......... 120.00 186.00} aculous, most of the baskets resulting] (m2 ,Y $tOPPE’ Cae i regular ex- CONDON’S
General. G0. 28. 634s; 68.97 | from long shots near centre floor. edions. I checked up on all vulnerable OO W eC d r
o{s Accounts 24-25... 33.60] ‘Brickey’’ Stevenson, of Sydney, and)”. batteries, coil, contacts, BARRINGTON AND PRINCE STS.
Sas, a, |Art Hewitt handled the whistles in a ns ‘all were functioning properly. SPECIALLY APPEALS
ee Oe eS rey sepals aut Tou ides The What else could cause this trouble, what IN STYLE. TO
Rink— 262.80 deserved penalties: to both ‘sides. had I forgotten? Ah! the plugs, those e ll - P |
poe: ete ( 12 133.06 PER cathy Cie 3: McLeod, 4; Lang- | most infernal of aerate oF te oOuege eopie (ieor e F Power
W aha ee . : ’ ’ >; = : ae + Ac ‘rouble,
fection and removal _ 197.88) stroth, 14; Harrison; Brown, 13; McLen- bie peer eee MN a. Heavy film of By ; g *
oe sen pee a ao 30 0) mT eee Ty SDBELY, MaUre- oil. I cleaned them and ReReeit en E. EK S Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos
eneral..........+-- . otal 37. - Getctata «| gave the wheel a turn and started off as I ks
Univ. Loan 24-25..... 300.00) _Y. M. C. A.J. Piers, 13; Grisdale, 9: | iF nothing had happened. Should. I . SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
; ———— | Winchcombe, 5; B. Piers, 2; Thomas, ~ regard this as an accident or as something Chain of Stores to
$ 97.80 $ 923.01] Murley, 5; Worsley, 3; Laing; Fordham 3. likely to happen again? Should [ keep of every Description.
Sodales 984.25 565.17 Total—39. my course or turn and make for my SPRING GARDEN RD. —Also—
RS oa a . 139.95 starting point? The question was os BARRINGTON ST.
decided for me when the engine stoppec

Delta Gamma—

 

whole operation. Result, the same.

HALIFAX :

Dance.....-.+-+-+++ ra attacks of curious students who use all hour of this saw me no better off, in fact ete ral seeing calscd) on
BE) te an AE ES i "| kinds of ingenious methods in order to things were going from bad to_ worse. arin pee aes
$ 190.00 trap the unwary professor into admitting | 1, its period of activity my engine had ee ater ai ae
. that their mark was in the neighborhood | ~. rried me far, in its period of inactivity Bu.NOA AVM SHL SI SIHLL
eels 75.00 of an = we Sato i pkiés capposed the wind, gig bad been cteooty ne
REI ASSAD sh © 006 5) 8 aculty thinks that this sates Sonn had carried. me -fatther.
$ 75.00 “slacking” is quite sufficient a reason for ee. fad oes me by at :
ape avin oe al ve considerable nn but ‘i ea a TOILE? SUPPLIES LIMITED
ood, but then why do they stt able hail them. Briefly, the sitPe atest xt <— di give them to us rafter the final exam- hon eo this. I was in a thirty foot Se SAC. 4444
BARR ete oie Gn “’linations. Other colleges give marks, open motor boat, with a useless engine,

 

$7510.98 $7510.98

why not Dalhousie? Is_ it merely a
desire to be different or is there a real

seven miles from home and _ drifting
steadily toward the open sea, a horde ol

 

RUBBER GOODS
WHEN

COR. COBURG and HENRY

Halifax’s Only Metered

reason? If there is we would like to snowy whitecaps before, the scudding F —- h ’ Service
a aree => estar tae know it. bs ee) ; spindrift behind. Without an oar or a reeman S nave em
See eB AES| eX - H.G. STAIRS. sail, with no food except a few biscuits, Caan Rates O-hanes

 

oe. — 60.00 4 h h night shutting down in eer fi ag a8 Two travel for same as one.
Rah eee eA Harrison: ‘‘Why drink whiskey through}a storm brewing in the olling, } was Bn .
Basketball.......... 63.00 Bitcsethey ae preparing for a hectic ent. ee 3 = : More than two, 20 cents extra.
Tabor: ‘Since promising friend wifethat} About a mile to windward and anheat S t F t
PR teag ir ae not another whiskey glass would ever|of me was a small island past which | por S quipmen = —
Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours

NOTE.—o|s means outstanding—. é.,
burden of previous Council. The summer expenses of the Gazette are not

included.

 

touch my lips. Si,

Copeland: ‘‘Lord, but she makes my
head turn!”

was rapidly drifting. Seeing in this my
last chance for safety, there being no
other craft in sight, | was desperately
trying to direct my course toward the
shore when suddenly a tall white sail

 

 

Everything for

FOOTBALL and

 

 

 

 

THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «Potted Plants

Quick: ‘‘But if she is so bum-looking?”’
Copeland: ‘‘Turn the other way.’

WALSH'S

 

Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D. Florists.
We can wire Flowers to all parts of
the world.

swept into view around a corner ol the We make up

BASKETBALL

Special Terms to Clubs.

Everybody is going to the Students’
Dance.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALLENS

SOGIE TY
AND

COMMERCIAL
PRINTING

124-126 Granville Street

 

Winter-Burns Ltd.

Exclusive Agents for

Society Brand Clothes

Correct Dress for Students

437 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

ea ane a

DRUG STORE

YOUR DRUGGISTS

SPRING GARDEN RD.
COR. QUEEN ST.

 

   
   
  
 

 

Dalhousie Stationery

2t Sheets Writing Paper
stamped with the Dalhousie Crest and 24 Envelopes to match.

Special 50c Box
Connolly’s Book Shop

487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Pau!’s Cburch.

Siar Oxfords

FOR MEN

Well-dressed men know that
Oxfords are necessary to keep up
appearances: ‘These very men are
the fellows you see daily at
WALLACE'’S buying Oxfords and
Spats.

OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11

Wallace Bros.

427 BARRINGTON ST.
Cor. Sackville St.

  
     
         
   
     
     

 

Compare this for value:

72 Sheets of Paper
72 Envelopes

each embossed with
Dalhousie crest.
Packed in neat box.

$1.85
FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

Nearest Stationer to your College

 

 

KEEP YOURSELF
LOOKING SNAPPY

at

LEE’S

Basement Barber Shop

Let us cut your hair every 10 days
We cut your hair to fit your typeWe are experts.

48 Sackville St., Halifax, N. S.

 

MacDonald Hardware Co.
SPRING GARDEN RD.

MADERS

 

Going down to
|

 

 

Clothes Seen at the Colleges
Suits, Overcoats
and Furnishings

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W.F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.

HALIFAX

 

 

 

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

Blue
Overcoats

 

Fashion decrees that this season to be stylishly dressed
you must wear a BLUE
OVERCOAT. Nowhere will
you see a better range than
at CLAYTONS. | Beautiful
Chinchillas and Whitneys in
the new D.B. 1926 models,
deep storm collars, belted
back, cuffs on sleeves, half
lined Overcoats of distinction.
You will’be proud to wear one.

‘20 *28 *38
a

Claytons

JACOB ST.
(A Maritime Industry)

THE ROSERY

 

 
