 

Lot]

 

alhousie University

 

 

VOL_ FXII.

 

 

Should Russiabe Recognized?) Ch

 

Bate College Debaters to Meet
Dalhousie

 

E e
On Tuesday evening, October 27th,

at the School for the Blind, the first
intercollegiate debate for the academic
rear 1931-32 aill be held. Randolph

eatherbee and Frank Murray, of
Bates College, Lewimston, Maine will
debate with Howard Oxley and Douglas MacIntosh representing Dalhousie
University. The home team will uphold the resolution, ‘‘Resolved that
the nations should grant de jure
recognition to the Union of Socialist
Soviet Republics.”

To many people the very name of
Russia is an anathema. During the
last fifteen years she has done much
that has been unpopular with the
majority of countries. Incidental to
her experintent in communism she has
appended the religious feelings and
ran counter to the economic views of
the people of the other leading powers.
Many misdeeds could be urged against
this great nation, as arguments to
preclude her full recognition by other
nations. Yet there is much to be
placed to her credit, which her cham
pion the Dalhousie team, will not
neglect. Probably the correct test
as to whether Russia is worthy of
de jure recognition, should not be
based on the morality of her deeds
or on the economic structure which
she is attempting to build. At any

rate, the discussion between the two]
strong teams which will meet next}

week, should classify the issue a

1 All students holding a D. A. A. C.
_ ticket will be admitted free of charge
An audience decision of voting by
ballot will be taken. i
-, ‘The Bates team on its tour of New
Brunswick and Nova Scotia will be

       
 

ai IN

-coln, Maine. He is a Senior and has
- the unusual distinction of having been
elected president of his class during
the Freshman, Junior and Senior years,
and is president of the Student Council
also. He expects to receive his A. B.
degree next June with Honors’ in
Government. = Mr. Weatherbee’s
versatility is shown by the fact that
the college literary magazine, ‘‘The
Garnet,” has published both his poems
and pen and ink sketches. He is an
amateur boxer. This is the fourth
ear during which he has been a member of the varsity debating team. He
has appeared equally at home in
discussion with such diverse institutions as Yale, Princeton, Vassar,
University of New Zealand, University
of Pennsylvania, and the German
Universities Union. Both Intercollegiate Debates and the University Debaters Annual, the leading compilations
of the best debates of the year in the
United States, have published speeches

of Mr. Weatherbee.

The second member of the Bates
team will be Frank Murray of Auburn,
Maine. Although just beginning his
second year in college, he has already
established himself as a leader among
his fellows. He was President of the
Freshman class last year and won his
numerals on the Freshman football
team. Although relatively inexperienced as an intercollegiate debate, his
speech in a debate with Swarthmore
College will appear in the current
edition of Intercollegiate Debates.

The team will be accompanied. by
Brooks Quimby, Associate Professor
of Public Speaking. Mr. Quimby has
supervised the work in debating at
Bates for the last four years. He is
National Vice-President of Delta Sigma
Rho, the honorary forensic society, and

was himself a leading Bates debater of
' earlier days.

THE DALHOUSIE TEAM WILL
BE COMPOSED OF HOWARD
OXLEY AND DOUGLAS

~ MacINTOSH.

_ Howard Oxley, leader of the Dalhousie team, is a native of Halirax.
- Mr, Oxley entered Dalhousie University at the beginning of this term, and
isa member of the first year class in the
Law School. His record in debating

during his Arts course in Mt. Allison

  

‘Randoiph Weatherbee of Lin- } |]

 

 

President Emeritus

 

 

student lrfe.

betier.

Greeting from Retiring President
b>

May T extend to all Datiousie students, old. and
new, my congratulations on the choice that has been
made in the selection of a new President for the
University. I have known him and of him for a
sufficient number of years to feel confident in predicting for our Alma Mater a steadily increasing
advancement under his leadership. 7

I desire to offer my wishes that this session
may be a successful and happy one in every phase of

May I take this opportumity of wishing the
Editors of the GAZETTE success wn their difficult
task of making our college paper ever brighter and

A. STANLEY Mac KE NZIE

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOER 23rd, 1931.

Faculty

Since the last issue of the Gazette
there have been numerous changes
in the Academic Staff of the University. In some instances these are
permanent whereas in others they are
merely temporary. Dr. Archibald MacMechan was granted one years’ leave
of absence, at the end of which time
he will retire. Dr. MacMechan’s resignation brings to a close a long term
of office, which has been one of untiring
effort ror the betterment of Dalhousie,
The Gazette wishes Dr. MacMechan
many long years of happiness in his
retirement.

Professor Gautheron has been granted one year’s leave of absence and his
place is being filled by Professor Earnest
Martin. Professor Gautheron is at
the present time doing some literary
research work at the Sorbonne: University in Paris.

Dr. E. R. Jones has resigned and
returned to Virginia. Dr. Dixie Pelluet has been appointed to succeed
him.

Among the new members of the
Staff are Professor J. B. Martin, Mr.
A. R. Jewitt, and Mr. C. A. Yeo, Mr.
Jewitt and Mr. Yeo are both graduates
of Dalhousie and are lecturing in
Literature and Classics respectively.

Professor D. C. Harvey was appointed Archivist and took over his
new duties shortly before the University opened this term. Professor
Harvey is also lecturing in Canadian
History.

The Dalhousie Gazette extends to
all the new members ot the Academic
Staff a most hearty welcome, and
wishes them much success in their
undertakings.

      
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
 

 

 

with the British debaters in 1980
against whom he led a victorious
team. His effective style of speaking
is well known to Dalhousians who
heard him in his encounter with a
Dalhousie team in February, 1931,
when he again lead a winning team.

At Mt. Allison he was also prominent in many other student societies.
Since coming to Dalhousie he has become a member of the legal fraternity
Phi Delta Phi. An able exponent of
the cause for Russia’s recognition will
be found in Mr. Oxley, as he leads the
Dalhousie team, next Tuesday night.

Douglas Major MacIntosh is a
graduate of Annapolis Academy and
of Dalhousie, class of 30. He pursued
graduate work last year in the Departments of English and Philosophy,
specializing in Nineteenth Century
thought and tendencies, and received
his M. A. at Convocation this spring.
At present he is taking a pre-med
course and eventually will likely land
in Medicine. Mr. MacIntosh is possessed with a keen and logical mind,
well stored with a knowledge of current
events and a real appreciation of their
causes. He has engaged in radio
debate under the auspices of Sodales,
and is singularly fortunate in having
a background of several summers’
preaching tor the United Church of
Canada. He wields a facile pen and
for the past year has been editor of

 

 

 

New President

Elsewhere on this page will be found
a message to the Students of Dalhousie
from her new President, Carleton W.
Stanley, B. A. (Tor.), M. A. (Oxon.).
Mr. Stanley, whose formal inauguration took place in the Capitol Theatre
on October ninth has been acting
President since August third. From
McGill he comes with high reputation
of scholastic training and administrative ability. Mr. Stanley is a comparatively young man and he brings to
Dalhousie in addition to a forceful and
ambitious personality the fire ‘and
zeal of young manhood.

President Stanley was born in Providence, Rhode Island. He graduated
with distinction from Toronto University, a double gold medallist. At
Oxford he obtained first class honors
in “Greats” and two first prizes. After
his return to Canada he taught for
three years in Toronto and then, after
a brief interlude in his academic career
became Professor of Greek at MacGill.
During the absence in India of Principal Sir Arthur Currie, Mr. Stanley discharged the duties of Principal at
McGill.

Mrs. Stanley is a daughter of Professor W. J. Alexander, who, before
Dr. MacMechan was head of the
English Department at Dalhousie.

The Gazette joins with the whole student
body in an enthusiastic and hearty welcome to the new President and to Mrs.
Stanley.

anges in the |Welcome to the) Dalhousie Mourns Her Loss

N O

Professor and Students Called by
Death

 

Greeting from the New President

DB hoefef

Men and women who have come, for the first
tume, to work ai Dalhousie I am very glad, indeed,
to see you here and to make your acquaintance.
I, too, this year am a Freshman, and for some weeks
now I have been scanning the horizon to find someone
as fresh and new as myself. You will understand,
then, that, when I meet you, 250 strong, and say
that I am glad to see you, it is not an idle compli
ment.

Well, all the rest I am going to say you may

take as one long compliment to yourselves.

I am

going to pay you the greatest compliment in my

power.

I am going to talk seriously to you.

I shall ask you for a few moments to consider
your duties and responsibilities. Frankly, I should

 

 

 

 

 

Continued on page 4

 

 

Las
»>
y

““D”’ Awarded for

Bravery

At the Yacht Squadron on Thursday
evening, Oct. 15th, there was enacted
the final scene of a little drama in
which the leading roles were played
by two young Dalhousians and a
naval veteran of the Great War.

Last March, Mr. Stanley’ Keogh
Steward of the the Yacht Squadron
rescued two freshmen from death in
the waters of the North West Arm.

The annual meeting of the Yachting
Club for presentation of prizes was
made the occassion of a presentation of a
gold “‘D”’, to Stanley Keogh by the
Student Body of Dalhousie in view
of his bravery in saving the lives of
two of their membeis.”

Mr. Gerald Stewart, President of
the Dalhousie Students’ Council made
the presentation. Dean Smith of the
Law School and Dr. Bell, Head of the

Biology Department were also at the
meeting.

Mr. Keogh effected his daring rescue

 

DR. MacFARLANE.

With the death of Dr. MacFarlane,
King’s College and the University as
a whole loses a great scholar and
staunch supporter. Dr. MacFarlane
died on the eveningtof June 8th, 1931.
After a short illness which was caused
by heart trouble he passed away.

Walter Douglas MacFarlane was
professor of English at King’s College.
He came to Kings early in 1920, when
the College was in Windsor. He was
one of the “Old Guard” which came
down to Halifax when the College
moved here. Dr. MacFarlane was
a Bachelor of Arts of King's, and a
Doctor of Philosophy from Gottingen
University in Germany.

The tragic death of Thomas R. Webber occurred during the early summer of
this year at his home in Ship Harbour
Lake, Halifax County and removed
from Dalhousie a fine student and a
true friend.

In the Law School where he was
particularly well known and from
where he was to have graduated this
year, ‘‘Tommy” is and will be greatly
missed. To those who knew him
intimately the word of his death came

| as a severe shock, but the full realiza
tion was not brought home until the
Law School opened for the current
year when the smile and cheerful greeting which characterized Tommy Webber
every day of his life, were missing.

Not the least of his many admirable
qualities was his optimistic attitude
towards life. His constant cheer, his
willingness to cooperate in any undertaking at hand and his unselfish devo
tion to the Law School and to Dalhousie as a whole, endeared him to
everybody with whom he came in
contact.

With the passing of Thomas R. Webber there passed a real man and a true
Dalhousian. Dalhousie mourns him
and offers sincere sympathy to his
bereaved parent and family,

Requiescat in pace.

LLOYD EDWARD ZINC.

All Dalhousie students were shocked
to read of the death of Lloyd Edward
Zinc, class '34, this summer. Lloyd
was born in Halifax on December 18,
1912. He attended Quinpool Road
School, Morris Street school and received his high school. education at
Halifax County Academy. After his
graduation from the Academy in 1930
he entered Dalhousie.

He took an active part in Tuxis
work, and was a member of the West
End Baptist Church basketball team.
He was a fond lover of music, and was
himself very musical. He registered
in Engineering at Dalhousie, and was
exceedingly brilliant as a draftsman, so
also he showed remarkable qualities in
his other classes. He was very -i#
terested in the Society and was one of
its best liked members. His cheerful
smile and fine character caused him
to be liked by all those with whom he
came in contact. Although his absence
will be deeply felt, by the college as a
whole, yet to his fellow students of the
Engineering department, there remains a gap which can never be filled.

He is survived by his parents, an
older brother Cyr], formerly of Dalhousie, and a younger sister Marjorie,
to whom the Engineering Society and
the college as a whole extend their
deepest sympathies.

ROBERT BISHOP.

The news of Bob Bishop’s death was
received with wide-spread and deep felt
regret by his many friends and ac
quaintances. In the two years he
spent at Dalhousie he endeared himself
to his fellow students,.and won their
respect and sincere liking by his many
splendid qualities. Although quiet and
unassuming, he demonstrated in countless ways his superiority as a student

Wee ce, 2 ; 3 : at great hazard to his own life. He 1s| and asa man.
a University, is such as to pee high | The Pine Hill Messenger, organ of the already a medallist for merit in tie His brilliant record at Acadia and
Pie pa tions for his effort in t nae te alumni and students of the local RANDOLPH WEATHERBE HOWARD OXLEY Battle of Jutland. We take the| Dalhousie is so well known that it is
f _ debate. While at that eer y ie Sea College. Mr. MacIn- greatest of picasure in seeing his name | almost needless to comment. upon it.
aes Sree in four intercollegiate de-|tosh will be a distinct asset to any Leader of Bate Team. Leader of Dalhousie Team. inscribed on the Honor Scroll of Dal-| Behind him honour lay heaped upon
_--——s bates. Among these was a debate| debating team. heavate:
ane an et (Continued on page 4)
| = al —————— :

   

   

THE TIGERS ARE GOING TO TAKE TWO STRAIGHT

Help them by coming to the Wanderers’ Grounds, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24th
| and really rooting for the GOLD AND BLACK

   
fl fate = ee

» ee

   
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
    
  
 
   
  
     
      
    

 

“The Oldest College Paper in America.”

 

x. Managing Editors:

B.A. | THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
0 a WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
re Seog tx i.) Associates: | ;
eee 2.7 Be, B, CHANDLER .
- LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.
Belge. 1. ANIEL SPRY
BO oe. 4 Sports Editor:
PNT RH R, D, DUCHEMIN

News Editor:
a MARGARET DORMAN
«ELIZABETH MURRAY
er: ed | . Asst. Business Manager:
CHARLES CLARK, B. A.
~ ee z B2436
mt Proof Editors:
rash! Be AARON ZIVE
a MURRAY HIGGINS
. Z

7-9-1 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.

re &! INITIUM.

With this issue, the Gazette enters upon its sixty-second year
the official student publication of Dalhousie University. Naturally enough, in the course of so prolongeda periodit hashad many
tudes; it reached the zenith and sounded the nadir of

ucce s. Yet despite these fluctuations of fortune, the passing

s have neither vitiated its vitality nor impaired its energy.
ast term the Gazette enjoyed one of the most successful
n its existence. It was the recipient of praise and comation from both students and alumni. The editors inted a new policy by placing less emphasis on the news
mt of the paper, by raising its genera] tone, and by making
adequate medium for literary expression. As a result of
mportant and beneficial innovation, the Gazette regained a

; ion worthy of the oldest college paper in America.

_--——-—s We the present editors, hope to carry on in much the same

human and readable without making it puerile and _ frivolus.

‘ ) this we must have the wholehearted support of the student

; Gazette is essentially their publication, and no

al policy which fails to meet with their approval can hope
rvive. — Oe ick fox ward the perennial plea for und literary contributions from the students, and inquire

tl guage of contemporary advertising, Why not you?
i cee eee SOC eM a Le ft See
cae allie by tithe ne

a stoma
sae ap aR as
PWT aE ya at ott
word his
Thic vec

 
   
  
 
  
 
   

   
 

 

~

       
 
    
 

OUR NEW PRESIDENT. 7
SRO ee te
wi i me iorable in the annuals of Dalhousie as the
sed new hands take up the duty of directing her

 
 
 
 
  
  

g the summer, our trusty pilot of two decades,
‘enzie, retired from active service, and his sucon W. Stanley was officially installed at an impressive

_ ceremony a short time ago. _ es
-—,_ Our new President’s task is no sinecure. The
-____of modern civilization have made the administration of a univer
sete sity immeasurably more difficult than it was a few centuries back.
And these demands are at present augmented by the disturbed
economic state of the world at large. The ramifications of this
industrial unrest reach even into college life, and Dalhousie is

feeling the eae in no small measure. 7
_._ Nevertheless, we feel sure that President Stanley will be able
to cope with all difficulties which may lie ahead. Indeed, his past
record speaks eloquently of his signal ability. And his friend
 liness and willingness to co-operate with the students, are indicative

_. of the spirit in which he tackles his task. We on our part must
reciprocate. If we do this willingly, we shall undoubtedly

- emerge with flying colours, ad maiorem gloriam Dalhousianae.

   
    
     
     
  

    
     
  
  
  
 
 
 

     

 

THIS HAZING HABIT.

ri uo During the past few weeks, significant signs of the annual
__ aberration known as ‘“‘hazing’’ have been in evidence about the
Ls campus. This particular form of innocuous insanity is an ancient

_-_—_— practice, visited on each generation of freshmen like the sins of
the fathers upon the children, and in common with many venerable

©

- customs, it possesses doubtful merit, and is exposed to considerable

eet tek
a ms —

--_ eaptious criticism. | j
_---——-_-It is possible of course, to adopt a beatific and benign attitude

towards this sophomoric spasm, to smile tolerantly, and declare
with a gentle grandmotherly gesture, ‘‘Ah well, boys will be boys.”
_ It is not uncommon to excuse initiation activities, on the ground

that such antics are no worse than those of our austere and august

ale “elders in their secret societies. Often it is suggested that hazing
ie ‘serves quite a practical purpose. Yet on the whole, such opinions
are nothing more than so much windy verbitage.

_~~--~—- To our mind the whole process of hazing is ineffectively arid
Be | dnd childishly absurd. It benefits no one, and only serves to
|. make the university ridiculous in the eyes of the general public.
__ _The origin of the practice seems to have been the desire to impress
* on newcomers to college the fact that their position was now a
humble one, and also to suppress any grandiose ideas which a
| _—_-_— freshman might have of his own importance. But in these days
_-_ of the mass production of students, where two or three hundred
are forced to don the regal regalia of initiation, the desired production of an inferiority complex fails to take place. The newcomers congregate in little groups wherever they go, and feel
rather proud at the attention they attract. The rest of the college
_ Jaughs at them the first day or so, and at the end of a week is sick
-_and tired of seeing these modified scarecrows in their midst.
‘The effect of all this on the plebian populace is decidedly
eterious to the university’s reputation. Stolid citizenry,
ng crowds of students garbed in the ghastly garments of
on, cynically conclude that the pursuit of learning has
place to the f And their judge
 
 
     
    

be %

  
 
 

     

i" oa

i
.

pry F

 

rd

     
  
  

it
»
>
a
‘2
oo
>

5
.

i


 
    
  
 
 
 
    
   
 
  

  

 

to the pursuit of sartorial sensation.
>t without foundation, for after all, university men and
uld have outgrown such puerile pranks. They should
ing i ; and ambitions on a slightly higher plane.

emselves too seriously, they should be taking
‘tempting to lay some solid basis for character
se, their time, and their parents’ money

terly wasted. ‘Instead of coming to a university, they

t better remain in the home town, join the local society of
cs or L and parade about in gorgeous and silly

- - an os ed
= ~ J a% a ’
e . a ot ee E ?
re " .*
: —_ 5 aan a a
i) 1 Se
. a4 : i
rae. | Es i -_
2 h as Ss :
> oc“ a ; Vd f :
. “ By
We i
; j o> #, ; . F F Fs \
me fi ee. fy . ~ \ , :
S one / z : , > 2 ATS, a wre dy ,
'
_
.

It is our aim not only to preserve the high standard of
lecessorg, but also to do our bit towards keeping the paper

The heavy demands

 

        

Britian—Parliaments
and
Cabinets.

Strategy and a next war

 

The waters of British politics, by
no means placid since the late Labour
Ministry took office, have in the last
two months seethed with action, One

jof the first indications of a change
came some months back when the
Socialist Chancellor of the Exchequer
spoke publicly of retrenchment on
social expenditures. It was abundant
ly clear to those who cared to see the |

governments, Tory or Socialist, were
bestowing benefits upon the economically weak at a pace beyond the
country’s means. When a chieftain
of the Labour Party admitted the fact
and proposed to do something about
it it appeared that the situation was
| serious indeed.

Through the summer months the
budget deficit loomed larger and more
imminent. The Chancellor stated it
at £120 millions in early August. It
was‘ said that unless the ends were
brought together, the revenue up or
expenditure down, credits would not
be renewed and the pound sterling was
due for collapse. The Big Five of the
Cabinet—MacDonald and Snowden,
Henderson, Thomas and Graham—
constituted themselves and Economy
Committee to find the solution. After
lengthy deliberations and however
near they may have come to agreement
on other items there was a definite
split on reduction of unemployment
benefits. Failing to secure unanimity
in committee the Prime Minister and
Snowden laid their cards before the
Labour Party Executive and _ the
Trades Union Council. Their proposals were turned down.

On Saturday the 22nd the King
suddenly returned from Balmoral.
The Sunday papers buzzed with
speculation—all of which failed to hit
the mark. On Monday the Labour
Ministry resigned. On Wednesday
Mr. MacDonald was sworn in at the
head of a National Government of
ten ministers—four Labourities, four
Conservatives, two Liberals. |

The new Government has balanced
a new budget and put it through in
special session of Parliament. The
Dole has been cut by 10%, a rigid entrenchment applied on other social
expenditures and government salaries.
On Sept. 10th the pound was taken off
the gold standard. The Labour Party
has placeditself in strenuous opposition,
repudiating and anathematising those
of itself who saw fit to support the new
order, The, Liberal \Party swobbled,
within itself. The Conservatives rallied to the new Government.

As might well be expected the
‘question of tariff has reared its ugly
head. It appears to have consolidated
the opposition and to have split off
odd fragments of the coalition. The
net result is somewhat chaotic, National] Labourites, Simon Liberals and
other Liberals, diehard Tories and
Tories who may compromise, a sprinkling of Independents and New Party
such, all, as individuals are a bit confused in their stands. Out of the
turmoil emerges one definite move—
an appeal to the sovereign people.
The Government appears to have sidestepped temporarily the principal question. It seeks no direct answer on
tariff; it calls rather for a ‘‘doctor’s
mandate,’ a carte blanche authority
to handle the situation with what tools
and why as from its high place it best
may see.

Observers forecast the return of the
National Government with a substantial majority. Some claim to see
a Labour loss of a hundred seats.
Supposing this the case what will the
immediate future bring? Will a National majority hold together if the
Government declares for a tariff? Or,
to put it another way, is the doctor’s
mandate to be for Parliament or for
the Cabinet? Far be it from us to
intrude an opinion in that of which we
know not, but we do submit that it
would be most unfortunate if the
{ndividual members of Parliament
were to take unto themselves the
mandate of the electorate. We shudder at the very thought of a tariff for
Britian—even if applied and treated
as a purely revenue measure. We
deplore that it should be necessary
even to talk of it seriously. We fear
the difficulties of repeal when the
emergency passes—if it does. But we
do submit that strong medicine must
be stomached if the case is serious
enough, that the situation cries for
what control men can exert, that the
times are too swift and the emergency
too urgent to permit ot the dilly-dally,
the twiddle-twaddle, the eternal babble
of Parliament and the peccadilloes of
politicians. It is better that a few
should do something than that many
should talk about it. Heaven fortend
that the coming election should bring
a strong House of Commons and a
weak Cabinet.

While numerous organizations and
persons within and without them are
devoting their efforts to the elimination
of war, military experts, perhaps unconsciously, are com.ng to their aid
with pre-views of a next war as it will
be. The expert contribution is twofold. By the pictures of horror which
informed minds can build up the
utilisation of force between nations
may be shocked out of existence—
even for the mostunscrupulous. Secondly they deliver information which
the anti-war workers undeniably need,
for how can one prevent or eliminate
a thing whose very nature one does not

 

 

The Gazette
The Gazette Again
Our Contributors

 

After being for some weeks the
plaything of those very vicissitudes of
college life that it is supposed to depict,
the Dalhousie Gazette once again
makes its bow to the Student Body
and Faculty of Dalhousie and to
those others, who, by ties of associationand remembrance are retained
among its subscribers. In a sense all
years are unusual, but to the 1931-32
term that adjective may be applied
with allimpunity trom triteness. We
have lost and we have gained beyond
the ordinary vacillations of college
fortune. We have lost a President
whom we leave with our wishes for
peace and happiness in his autumn
years, and in the realization of a work
well done. We have lost a professor and three students to whom,
called from the campus by no earthly
circumstance, we pledge remembrance.
We have gained a President to whom we
promise our support in maintaining
the high traditions of this University;
professors and a host of new students
whom we welcome to both campuses.
To all the old Dalhousians, our greeting is no less warm.

We have been a little diffident in
publishing this issue. So much has
transpired, so much matter invites
selection, that we have fallen into the
difficult task of at once presenting a
brief but comprehensive review of
everything of interest and avoiding to
emphasise what has become stale.
If we have failed to do this we have the
consolation that future issues will be
less demanding. ic

For future Gazettes we solicit the
support of the entire student body,
freshmen and old students, and not
only of the student body but also of
the staff. Especially do we appeal to
any of you who are looking forward
to journalism and to any who have
some aptitude and liking for any
phase of writing. During these years

of youth and freedom you ought to be

testing principles and hoarding up
ideas against the years when the conventions of the well trod and closely
defined pathway of journalism will
hem you in, _We can mutually benefit
each other.

The Gazette will be largely what
you, the Student Body, make 1t. We
want your contributions and your
criticisms, only asking that the latter,
no less than the former, be given
directly to fis. |

We are introducing this year one or
two new features Please let us know
how they are being taken. It is our
idea that the recent trend in the
Gazette away from the’ High School
paper toward an organ adequate to a
university ought to be developed much
further. A column has been set aside
for the discussion of world wide current events from the student standpoint. We expect it to be popular,
We would also like to institute a
Student Forum, a column in which our
readers may express their views and
exchange ideas by means of that age
old but useful fiction ‘‘Leters to the
Editor.” This will depend on you.

 

Engineering Notes

The Engineering Society held their
first meeting Mon. Oct. 5, and many
important matters were discussed.
The Social Committee were asked to
arranged for an Engineering party to
be held on Mon. evening Oct. 11, at
the Jubilee Boat House. George MacKie was elected as football manager,
and Jim Ferguson elected as society
reporter to the Gazette,

The Engineering Society held their
first dance at the Jubilee Boat House
on Monday Oct. 11, Prof. and Mrs.
W. P. Copp were present as chaperones,

while Joe Mills and his orchestra ad-.

ded life to the party.

The Engineers held their first football practice on Wed. afternoon at
2 p.m. A large turnout was present,
and manager MacKie was over pleased
with the fine material which he had
to work. Those present from other
year teams included, Scott, Fisher,
Menzie, Harris MacDonald, Ferguson
and such new material as Corkum,
Fraser, Floy and many others.

understand. We cannot but think
it futile that energy should be expended in eliminating war, if by war is
meant a confiict similar to the last.
For one thing the time element in a
next war will be entirely changed.
The conflict will boil down to the
establishment of air superiority by
one of the combatants—a matter of
hours and a major engagement between
massed air forces. One must consider
the utility of long-run economic sanctions and financial aids, of long negotaations and other attributes of present
war time diplomacy as against an outbreak which may see a decisive settlement on the very day when war is
declared.

FROM OUR

Communism vs. University
of Alberta.

Freedom of the University
Press.

Collitch Capers.

Rooting Renaiesance of —
McGill.

The market square at Edmonton
was crowded. Husky unemployed gathered round the speaker of the evening, one Murdock Clarke ‘‘Sub-district Organizer” of the Communist
Party of Canada, As he was demolishing ruthlessly the last remnants of poor
old Capitalism, several students o. the
University of Alberta heaved numerous eggs, then ran. The husky unemployed were restrained from pursuit;
the police made no attempt to stop the
students. To the Edmonton Journal
Comrade Clarke wrote: ‘‘The behaviour
of those members of an educational
institution is simply a reflection of
capitalistic education as a_ whole,”
He excepted, however, several students
who remained to the meeting. Opinion on the incident in The Gateway
(U. of A.) was varied. One report was
light-hearted and quoted the leader of
the hooligans thus: “‘I am sorry,” he
said, ‘‘very sorry that the eggs I and
my noble men (God bless ’em) used
were not really rotten.” Wiping wanton tears from his eyes he concluded,
“Tam sorry. I might say that | am
sorry.” Much more serious in tone
was the editorial of the student sheet.
‘‘We do not take Organizer Clarke's
statements seriously, not because we
have the capitalistic viewpoint, but
because we are somewhat Socialistic.”’
The Communistic made no appeal to
educated thinkers—as usual. Nevertheless, The Gateway insisted that
the offenders, if not tried by a police
court, should be dealt with by the
Disciplinary Gommittee of the University,

Harking back to the freedom of the
university press question, a symposium
of student opinion in The Varsity
(University of Toronto) reveals several
interesting facts. The consensus o
opinion was that the newsheet should
be free to reflect student attitude on
controversial subjects in which the
undergraduate body is at all interested.
Two students jointly replied that they
would exclude any suspected of sympathy with Socialism, Radicalism,
Atheism, and Liberalism and any more
who show sign on intelligence. ‘‘After
all, what would the good farmers of
Elmira think!’ One lady (a devastating creature) thought the sheet should
express student opinion as long as the
remarks had at least fifty per cent of
Sanity in them. “It will help the
students get rid of their foolish ideas
in their youth and they will reach the
years of discretion.”

The situation of University of Toronto students with regard to free expression of their ideas is somewhat
different from that of Dalhousians.
Because of governmental support, the
university is carefully watched for
heretical opinions by every John Doe
and Richard Roe, who pay taxes to
keep the University in action, Readers
will recall the uproar raised by Toronto
citizens last winter when University
professors signed a letter protesting
that police methods of handling Communists was a perversion of British
justice and freedom of speech.

At Dalhousie it is difficult to forecast
what would happen if a student should
publicly express a radical opinion. Of
course such a thing has never happened
yet. One shudders to think of the
outcome of a campaign for funds for
a Young Socialists Club advocated by
the editor of the Gazette. The tradition is that one must never talk of
such things, especially in cmpany,
The typical Dalhousian maintains a
tight-lipped silence on all unorthodox
ideas, and regardless of what he thinks
never discusses anything but what he
might with confidence relate to his
grandmother,

At this season of the year undergraduate editorials are filled with
advice to the Freshman. The question
of hazing and initiation is a matter for
endless discussion. In one breath the
verdant one is urged to enter into every
college activity, and in the next to
practice devoutly the principle of selfnegation It is a matter to give one
pause,

The usual Boarding School pranks
are now about over. Frosh uniforms
this year showed a tendency toward
sanity. Freshettes at Toronto wore
odd stockings, wheeled doll carriages,
and carried toy animals to lectures,
At McMaster University they wore
green cardboard pill-boxes and one
green stocking. Perhaps we should
congratulate Dal Sophomores on their
originality.

Collegiate clowning, however, is
becoming rather bad form at reputable
universities. The bad old days when
the student body made fools of themselves before a disgusted townfolk are
gone. The omission of Freshman
initiation this year will not likely
create an intolerable situation. Initiation or not the Freshman realizes
that he does not own the campus, and
that is the end of freshness. The
Registrar and the Faculty do the rest.

Cheerleading at McGill has been
revived with a grand flourish this year,
according to the McGill Daily. It
seems that rooters have been for the
most part non-existant for the past few
years. But now, in the interests of
progress they have changed all that.

 

October 28rd, A931

Alon#

Dark night, a lonely shore,

And a low wind calling;

Rain too, upon the sand
Falling, falling.

 

 

Thunder rumbling through the clouds,
Lightning flashing;
Angry waves upon the rocks
Crashing, crashing.
Somewhere a pine-log burns
Upon the grating;
Somewhere too, an empty chair
Waiting, waiting.

AUDREY PAULINE RYAN,

Pine Hill Notes

 

Earle Pollet wishes it known that
the present condition of his face is not
the result of any domestic differences.
Earle was one of the heroes of the
Annual Pine Hill football classic.
Those who have witnessed these gory
battles will deem this explanation
enough; those who are still dubious
let them slide on their faces on a
cinder track for two or three yards.

A worthy successor to Clare Hick’s
open-air-taxi has been supplied through
a big real estate deal recently effected
at Pine Hill. We refer to the purchase
by Fraser Nicholson of Gordon Elkin’s
covered wagon—a special model maufactured by the ‘‘Never-gone-yet”’ Co.
Interesting developments are expected
—that is if the owner can be persuaded that soap-boxes, while they
have their uses, are poor substitutes
for wheels. Elkin, incidentally, seems
to be up in the air over the success of
his salesmanship,

The intellectual effects of residence
in Pine Hill has once more been clearly
demonstrated, Freeman Stewart
romped away with the First Entrance
Scholarship while Bob Aikens won
rend place and award, Congratulations

Pine Hill has been pleased to entertain, for the past few days, Harry

f| Sutherland’s kid brother from——where

is he from, Harry?

Wagers of an unusual nature have
been made at Pine Hill. We hesitate,
we never blush, to mention one to
which John A, Y. MacDonald was the
most daring party. Curiosity, once
whetted, they say, finds out many
things. Another prominent gamester,
McSween by name, wagered for a
small consideration, that he would
until Xmas emulate the beard growing
capacity of the House of David baseball team. A foreboding that he
might be asked by some solicitious
professor to join that well-known aggregation caused the daring gambler
to desist from his bet.

Five new cheerleaders are appointed,
rooter parades held before all games,
and the freshman mobilized for the
purpose of yelling their heads off.
Their slogan: “‘Let us be the Thundering Thousands, not the Feeble Fifty.”’

A writer in The Gateway (U. of A.)
suggests that applause from puppets,
ruled by mob spirit, is not to be preferred to the lesser but more appreciative cheers of individual spectators; and that organized cheering is
too definitely pro-Varsity, applauding
the team and not the play.

WHEN OUTFITTING
YOUR TEAM

WRITE US FOR PRICES
ON

Spalding
Athletic
Goods

AND OTHER HIGH-GRADE
SPORTS SUPPLIES FOR
FOOTBALL, BASKETBALL,
GYM EQUIPMENT, ETC.

ee
Prompt Service on
Club or Individual Orders

®
486-460 BARRINGTON $7,

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
    
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
    
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
    
  
  
   
  
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
    
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

rN. lid
me SS
, YP YD
A a4
YN ce
een ee,
i4 eect *

 

a
yo

ls
a

——

e Displaying a complete reversal of
_ form, the Dlahousie Tigers, led by
_ Captain Bob Baird, held their ancient
~~ fivals, the Halifax Wanderers, on the
. short end of an 8-3 score until the final
_ fifteen minutes of play last Saturday
_ in the second game of the Halifax City
--——s« Rugby League, but finally were nosed
-— a by a score ot ll to 8. It was one
____ of the most exciting games, though by

~~ no means the best ot exhibitions, seen

- ~~ on the Dalhousie grounds for some
__- years. The result of the game places
'-____ the Wanderers more firmly in first place
by ieee rh. a lead of two straight games,
______Dathaving lost the first game on Saturatk ge Papa 10, by the score of 19
eee = to nil.
The smallest crowd of fans in years,
Cs not only on the visitors’ stands, but
also on the Dal bleachers, saw the
_ ‘Yigers stage their gallant fight which
was lost through tough breaks in the
_ final ten minutes. Outplayed in the
first half by a large margin, the Wander____— ers showed to advantage in the second
when the Dal players tired, and
__ shoved over two touches, one con__-verted, in the dying moments of the
cope. battle. .
In the first half Dal commanded the
__—__— play almost entirely, and amassed a
_ total of eight points while Timmy
Hunter made a penalty kick count
three points for the Red and Black
toward the end of the session. The

ii
f

Ly et.
a

a
yr
Aid
_

-___ collegians rushed the play from the
Ms ‘- rt and soon were threatening the
ee: Wanderers touch line. Dalcame near
scoring when Davidson made one of
the ‘prettiest runs of the day and
passed to Stoddard with no one to
pass, but Stoddard missed the ball
mr wie
es

i

= - Play went back to centre field, where
| the’ Dal players dribbled the ball back
to the Wanderers line. Connors, at

ges
an

the Dal line in attempting to
2 a catch, and the Reds nearly
it he madeup for it a minute
when he made a beautiful

t the ball out of danger.

was forced to touch torsafety.

rman tried to drop it over the goal
- posts, but failed. The ball went to the
; other end, Dal dribbling and making
big gains, and a Dal forward went over
_ ‘the line for a touch, but it was disal- lowed by the referee. The Tigers were
- not to be stopped, however, and a
minute later Baird plunged over the
‘:. ‘Wandererslineforthe first score of the
‘game. Stoddard converted, making
‘the score 5 to 0,
The Wanderers rushed matters, and
at Dal’s 85-yard line were awarded a
‘penalty kick, which Timmie Hunter
made the most of to get the Reds
first score. A few minutes later, Mac--__— Rae carried the ball over the Wanderers
ae a. line for Dal’s second touchdown,
__ but Stoddard failed to convert, and the
_-__ score for the first half ended at 8 to 3.
_. . he scene shifted greatly in the
second session, and for the final twenty
minutes of play the visitors had by far
the better of it, threatening to score
Y a andagain. The Wanderersscrum,
heavier than Dal’s, were getting the

Lok |
y é
p
ig ‘.
"a
Sa

ae.

ie

ball out oftener, and their halves were
handling the ball better, and their
_ fepeated passing runs were checked
_ with increasing difficulty by the tiring
_ Dalteam. From a scrum on Dal’s 25_ yard’ line Bev Piers took a pass, and
_-__——s went through an opening as wide as a
tent to the touch line. Hunter converted the try, tieing the count at 8-8.
With ten minutes to go, it was only
_-—s a@ matter of time before the Red and
Black, pressing constantly, were to
_ score again, and the time proved all
too short. Jack Buckley, last year's
Dal star, was responsible for the play
that resulted in defeat for Dalhousie.
‘The ball came out of the scrum to
“Oxley, who passed to McCoy, to Oxley,
- to Buckley, who plunged over the Dal
- ____ players for the winning touch. Hunter
failed to convert from a narrow angle.
Dal made a short-lived recovery, but
the ball went back to the Dal territory,
| where jere the final ne ose
fe exe ing oO rover, Connor,
oD eae aid. Stoddard for the Dal
_ team was of high order, while Hunter,
McCoy, Piers, and Buckley turned in
a fine performance for the winners.
____The teams lined up as follows:
-__--—«~*Wanders—Fullback, Edwards; for_-wards, Boyd, Hamilton, Herman, Duf
_ __ fus, Grant, Dompierre, Webster; halves,
mpson, Piers, Buckley;  threeers, MacCoy, Hunter, Rainnie,

J
Aca
18 Tg 
“he

some

iy
fee

i
oe.
a
a

usie—Fullback, Connor; _for»per, Stewart, Woolner, Macay, Sheppard; halves, H
nd, Oyler, Davidson; three
s, Drover, A. Sutherland,
son, Stoddard.

usie had a measure of conin the intermediate game, in
the Wanderers second team by
and tieing up the league at
iece, the Wanderers hav‘st game at Redland by a

Javis went over for
f the game late in the

 

 

made one convert.

full back for Dal, fumbled the ball |S

nderers were awarded a free |
m Dal’s 25 yard line, and!

   

 
  

 

Wanderer’s finally win 11-8

 

Covert. The line-ups were as folows:

Wanderers—Fullback, Davenport; forwards, Summers, Wilson, Partington,
Muscott, Mahoney, Fry, Webster;
halves, Dobson, Sperry, Lane; threequarters, Fudge, Nickerson, Marshall
Green,

Dalhousie—Fullback, Lorway; forwards, Eagles, Menzies, Archibald,
Proctor, Kennedy, Rowley, Goodman;
halves, Brittain, B. Stoddard, Goss;
three-quarters, Covert, Anderson, Davis
Theakston.

 

Freshmen Defeat
Arts and Science

Smith, Spry and Ferguson
Stars

Saturday, Oct. 12, Freshmen and Arts
and Science started the interfaculty
league with a bang, as Freshmen scored
17 points to their opponents zero.
While the teams were not up to full
strength they hadenthusiasm and vigor
of two full teams. Smith and Spry
were outstanding for Frosh, while
Ferguson, fullback, was the Arts and
Science star. Davis, Smith 2, Lawrence, Gaum, made trys while Barnes

Fresh Team Arts and Science,

Mackasey D. Ferguson
Follender McCullen
Gaum Clainer
Smith N. Ferguson
Davis D. Nicholson
pry Brown
McCreath Squires
Lawrence
ote
arnes cts ,
-§. Scott, one of last years Cubs
\referred, .

J. MLL,

 

Engineers Defea
_ Freshmen

~

Freshmen met defeat in the second
game of the inter-Faculty Rugby
League on the Studley field at the hands
of the Engineers by a score of 11 to 0
on Tuesday, October 20, Lloy, Harris
and Scott went over for the three tries,
none of which were converted.

The teams lined uP as follows:

Freshmen—Smith, MacKasey, McGuinness, Forbes, Gaum, Spry; Follender, Fisher, Slater, Fairstein. ;

Engineers—Scott, Lodge, Harris,
Fisher, Rood, Dickie, Taylor, Corkum,
Menzies, Mitchell, McDonald, Morrison, Ferguson, Lloy. : ;

Col. Stewart referred satisfactorily.

 

 

Miss Gertrude Ells student at
Acadia University spent the Thanksgiving week-end at Shirreff Hall.

 

 

 

FROM THE

WINNERS [""SrarT

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark ok Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection, No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
witb the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

   
 
     

 

  

Got your Dal
Stationery yet?

 

 

You buy it cheaper

here than elseware.

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

5

 

cers Pat Up Crent Fight|Glee Club As
_ Against Ancient Rivals.

 

« SPORTS =

ks For

Co-operation

 

Expects good year despite handicaps

At the close of last term, midst all; Choral work, mutual benefit is inevithe excitement of convocation and the | table.

turmoil of plucks and passes, the old
Dalhousie gymnasium so forgot its age
and the warnings of Dr. Bell as to get
itself properly lit one night. Thus it
was that on the following morning
someone surveying the hang-over came
to the realization that the old College
Barn was no more, and that naught
remained but a spiral of smoke and
a clear view of the football field.
However, in consequence of this
event, the Dalhousie Glee Club found
itself this year without a home, without
a stage, without a hall, without properties or equipment, without band
instruments, almost ‘‘sans everything.”
However in the dim dark ages someone
said ‘The show must go on,” and if
there’s one thing that can’t be let down
it’s tradition. ‘Thus at Saint Andrew’s
Hall on Friday night of Freshman
Week the Class of ’35 were introduced
to Glee Club. The program was opened with orchestra selections by John
Budd, Fred McLellan and other members of the New Pines Hotel Orchestra.
This was followed by the Med Quartette, consisting of Doug Murray, Eric
Found, Don Thompson and Freddie
Whitehead, harmonizing to Peter
Dowd’s rendition of Dalhousie Dream
Girl and Gypsy Love Song. The
feature number of the evening was the
original composition of Don Murray
and Graham Allen, ‘‘Freshman, Freshman, And I’m a little Freshette,” this
number was exceptionally well performed by Ruth Crandall and Richard
Donahoe. The program closed with
Dal Songs and Yells led by Walter
MacKenzie, Bobbie Donahoe and Fred
Whitehead. Following the performance

a dance was held at Shirreff Hall.

Every effort is also being made this
year to re-organize the Dal Band, which
has been such a feature to the football

mes in previous years. Instruments

band-master, etc., have all been ar
ranged for, but annoying details have
a6 i prevented practices from being
ed. :

An affiliation has been made this
year between Glee Club and Choral
Society, whereby the president of the
latter institution is to automatically
become and executive member of Glee
Ciub. With centralization of the efforts of the two societies regarding

 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

Barrington and Sackville Sts.

Organization of the Symphony Orchestra is to proceed shortly under the
leadership of Mr. Harry Dean, Director of the Conservatory of Music.
Mr.’ Dean has always given wholehearted support to Choral work at
Dalhousie and his agreeing this year
to conduct the Symphony is only a
further proof of his interest in our
University,

The first regular Glee Club performance this year is being put on by the
members of the Freshman Class, and
is to take place on Wednesday evening,
Oct. 28th at the Navy League Auditorium. It is planned to hold future
performances in this auditorium until
the new gymnasium is ready for occupancy. In conjunction with the
opening of the new gymnasium, a
special Glee Club performance has been
planned. An excellent stage and lighting equipment has been provided in
the new building, but much has yet
to be done by the Glee Club in the
procuring and installing of theatrical
equipment and stage properties.

With these plans in view the Glee
Club feels assured of a successful year,
but in view of present conditions there
is no need to emphasize how much
depends on the cooperation of the
students themselves. The executive
merely ask a generous and quick response to anything that may be asked
of you, either individually or as a
general call from the notice board.

Where after 9
the Show °

A Hot or Cold Drink
An Ice Cream

or a Light Lunch

The Green Lantern

yi
Noirs

x XxX X
CHOCOLATES

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR

Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLE GE
| ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.

Write ©r call for Calendar or advice.

 

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 

  

Ground Hockey

Ground Hockey has been well supported and a large number of new
enthusiasts have created a remarkable
interest in the sport this Fall. To the
Freshettes a good deal of credit falls
due, for turning out so well and providing such fine material. Keep up
the good work girls and let us have
surprising results from the scheduled
games to be played against Halifax
Ladies College and Windsor this week.

Girls Track Meet to be held Thursday
12.00 o’clock noon.
cree

Miss Helen Olmstead is at the
University of Toronto this year, where
she is taking Household,Science.

 
    
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
  
  
 
     
     
   
   
 
     
 

Fall

Accessories

 

Sox
Spats
Gloves
Hats

 

COLWELL

BROTHERS

LIMITED
HALIFAX

 

 

 

    
 

 

Newman Club

The Newman Club held its first
meeting of the year in the form of a
most enjoyable get-together supper in
the Knights of Columbus Hall on
October the eighth. Doctor John
Burns and Professor and Mrs. V, C.
MacDonald each gave a short interesting talk. This was followed by a complete election of officers for the ensuing
year. President Wilfred J. Dyer;
Vice President, Mary Duggan; Secretary-Treasurer, Victor Oland; Arts
Representatives, Doreen Harper and
Burns Adams; Law Representative,
Gerald Coleman; Medica] Representative, Angus J. MacDonald; Dental
Representative, James Reddin and
Technical College Representative Donald Chisholm. The next meeting is to

be held on November the first which
includesa musical programme and tea.

 

All that is Refined
in Men’s Clothing is Yours
with the Fashion-Craft Label

 

OU GET MORE

than merely “something fo wear,”
when you buy

FASHION-CRAFT
CLOTHES

You enjoy the lasting
happiness that goes

with distinelivelyeertiect ;
style and fine quality— :
and at incomparable

values.

on 20

 
   
  

   

s

» Obcserver| The President’s
Sere Address

, 5 7 i “k * r at

hon bie b i. ‘a been (Contihued from page one)

_to another, who hopes, kaa
de causis,” that his identity
main as secret as that of last
worthy ie oe t. And oe
pose, it is only proper to allude
e oft-quoted evek.” ‘which has
oe ro ns him; but, ae is a most
entimental person, and makes no
promises, nor oh desire “to hold
it high’—and so on—‘‘to write the
truth at all times and to disregardthe
& advice of the three proverbial monAe = ye eee in short, is the only
he it motto of the all-seeing “Observer.”

accident, but partly, I believe, by good
sense, you have escaped the mad,
uprooting flood of immigration. It is
your duty to deliver yourselves and
your posterity from the ‘‘barbaric
yawp.”

But you are, no less, the custodians
of other things. The chatterers tell
us today that we live in an age of
science. But those who chatter can
never know anything of such profound
matters as science. Those who are
deeply read in history, and who know
the meaning of science, have grave
fears today whether science can long
continue with us. The future ot
science on this continent in particular
is very dark. Scientific enquiry can
only exist in an atmosphere of the
utmost freedom of thought. Scientific
curiosity must not only be free from

 
 
   
 
  

  

  
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 

   
   
   
     
   
 

wish to talk to you of other things; of
some of the new books, for example,
or politics, or the Gold Standard. But
it may be my duty at this moment,
as an older friend, to talk to jyou
younger people of your duties. ,
This is a golden time for you, Leisure is yours, more leisure than you
will ever command again. Freedom is
ours, more freedom than you have
had at school, and perhaps more than
you will ever have again. And youth
is yours, which you will never have

 
  
   

'
ie
le »

   

ic ee aikai 2 6.2 ar? ‘“ = again, You are off to the great ad- superstitious persecution, it must be

a 0% At the first of the year, “Observer | venture of life. We who are older untrammelled by materialism. The

wast king with one of the Sophomore | |<), you godspeed, we wish to utter} moment you say to the scientific
co-eds, and here is her sad story. She ke y y

words of good omen, to say nothing
that will mar your joy as you set out;
and yet we know that later, even if not
now, you will wish that you had our
counsel today.

I must tell you, therefore, at the
outset, that you are trustees for the
traditions of Dalhousie. Today you
are freshmen, but, in a very few years,
time, most of you, as I hope, will be
graduates. In the interval, in every

enquirer; ‘‘Be useful, be practical,
invent ways of saving time and money”’
—the moment you say that, you chill
hissoul. You cannot ‘‘Endow” science
hedging it about with practical considerations, any more than you can buy
poetry by the pound. But that is
precisely what is being everywhere
attempted on this continent. The
scientific mind bloweth where it listeth,
unprescribed, undismayed, free. You

, ath d been talking with one of the boys
se Jaga iaetdentally” had mentioned that
bona thet waa on her way down town to buy
| —- a new evening dress. Upon which he
| remarked that she’d better take a
! ee _ Jook at the Freshettes first; it mightn’t
--—s be worth her while to bother.
' - For the relief of all troubled minds,
| it might be well to say that it’s all an

old, old story. Every year, all (well,

‘3
i
.
fs
ES
Pa

ba almost the F tes are beautiful ; ; ; 2
e epee ae ie was,” and | Succeeding day of the interval, the| cannot hitch thoughts which ‘‘Wander
soon andon lager 3 : i a racine ii be made ee through eternity’’ to the vulgarities
oa erie et teat - ible only Dy your strenuous mental! of advertising, nor to the increase of
__ To make sure of this, Observer has} .65445. "We have no room for slackers. es

al

somebody's dividends. There are many
reasons for this, as all educated men
know. But I shall just touch on one
reason now. The man who ‘‘wants
results’”—to use a vulgar phrase—always wants the ‘‘results’” quickly.
He is all for taking short cuts. But
there are no short cuts to science,
Any one who enters into that Kingdom
must travel a difficult road. For
example, the appreciation of the importance of classification is fundamental
to science. In botany and zoology it
is allimportant. But it is also of the
greatest importance in geology, and
chemistry, and many other sciences.
Now, I may be prejudiced in this, but
I have often wondered whether any
one can really appreciate the importance of classification who has not read
Theophrastus and Aristotle in the

The name of Dalhousie stands where
it does today, throughout the world,
because your predecessors understood
their opportunities, seized them, and
went forth from these precincts not so
much with a degree, as with a sense of
values. And the world is not going
to ask you when you leave us, whether
you went to so-and-so’s classes, but
whether you are educated. Nor is it
merely wit your contemporaries will
expect of you. Unless you develop
here, in your own persons, taste, and
judgment and sanity, unless you learn
here the power of independent and
rational criticism, the world in your
time will slip a little further back into
the vulgarities and inmanities, into
superstition. You must not. only
set yourselves free by learning the

a Jooked about with particular care, and
| finds that, although the registration

_ .. . at the “Hall” is larger than it has been
| for some years,—the percentage of
so-called beauties is no higher than in

“~~~ the past. |
Fat MacKenzie and Freddie

‘Tn fact,
MacLellan remarked only last week
Bit paras had never, for years, seen the
Hall drawing room with fewer occu| ee ee,
The President of the University, in
; _ his speech to the Freshman class, made

WW
an >
_ ?

   
     
  
   
  

the statement that the Maritimes were
noted for the purity of the English
_ spoken in these provinces. Of course
| this gave the listeners a pleasant feeling of complacency, which was some_* what disturbed a little later when
_ * Charlie Lorway started off his speech
_-—s with “Gosh, it’s great to be with a

;
a ve

  

ae of Sreckme oo truth, you must help to set others free. | o:jcinal And they wrote in Greek.

oe of, Fres men again.” Cheer up| preg not merely from the thousand Wie ely eae y b
*e ‘Charlie it’s all right, the Freshmen said |). 4 ‘d : hu is i hether that is true or not may be a
you made t 7 and one idolatries which exist today,| minor consideration. But there is

free not merely from the Powers of

et

 

yi

4

S
rh i oa

 
    

=a
iP '

you've heard about,

 

. Tejoice
alive and well

   

 

Ten
Notice
Students presenting D. A.
. _ JA. C. tickets will be admitted

free to the Bates-Dalhousie
| Debate to be held next Tuesday at the auditorium of the
School for the Blind at 8.00
p. m.

fe _ you made the speech of the morning.

~~ A few weeks ago “Shorty” Stewart
_-—s«<—s Was sauntering past the “‘new gym” on
air his. way to a twelve o’clock class in the
Arts Building. (For the benefit of,
_——s mew students, it might be well to men
‘ tion that the structure now being
erected upon the campus is a gymna
\ sium ae Ee take the pee ss a
ing which was completely deroyed by fire last spring; but probably
eo e
_ resume the story, Shorty heard the
whistle blow. You know how it blows.
+ Immediately the workmen dropped
their tools and ran; but Shorty stopped,
set his watch ten minutes ahead and
at’ the same time reflected upon the
unworthiness of workmen who literally
fan as soon as the noon whistle blew.
hen came a shower of rocks, but

i Fate is kind, and many friends will
to hear that Shorty is still

 

  
   
   
  
 
  

   
  
   
   
    
 
  
 
 

these things.
those traditions, —

things.

wish to flatter you.

of the English tongue.
person on this continent announced
some decades ago that he ‘‘sounded his
barbaric yawp over the roofs of the
world.” It was perhaps, in his time, a
distinctive piece of seli-advertisement.
But, as the author of the phrase claimed
to be a poet, and, as any one, after all,
can ‘‘sound a barbaric yawp,” we have
had tens of thousands of self-advertised poets since, and their utterance
has grown more and more barbaric.
Similarly, we are asked to accept the
tom-toms of the tropical jungle as
music, and that is another din that
has been heard over the roofs of the
world. But, do not we ‘‘who speak
the tongue that Milton spake” have
a responsibility to speak it, and write
it, as precisely, and even as artistically,
as wecan? If you, in these provinces,
fail in that, then the English language
islostin thiscountry. Partly through

 

Mien ! Choose
Your Winter

Overcoats
at

EATON’S

Here you will find a selection of
models, cloths and prices to suit every
taste—coats that will please the most
discriminating buyers,

   

   

Priced from

182 to 352%

For the young men — Fitted coats are
shown in both fitted and plain back
styles. Navy bine, Oxford grey, Herringbones and Browns.

For the older men—Ulstersand dressy
Chesterfields are the most popular
models. In Blues, Greys and Fancy
Patterns,

Sizes 34 to 46—types for all men.
Eaton’s Main Floor.

  
   
  
    
     
  

Darkness and the beastly cruelty
which still lurks in the hearts of men,
but free from easy credulity, from
catch-words, trom the jargon of the
so-called specialists of our time, and
the chattering of the newspapers.
The traditions of Dalhousie are above
You must maintain

Let me be concrete about one thing,
and perhaps that will illustrate other
I wonder whether you realize,
keenly enough, that you are the especlal guardians of the purity of the
English language on this continent.
Do you realize that? I have no wish
to make invidious comparisons, no
But I repeat that
you obviously are the especial guardians, on this continent, of the purity
A certain

        
  
 
    
        
        
     
   
 
              
    
   
     
 

another consideration of great importance, and it is beyond dispute. The
very basis of science is mathematics.
No one denies that. But it is one of
the most curiously wrong-headed features of our time in Canada that,
whereas more and more men and
women are called students of science,
fewer and fewer men, and hardly any
women, are studying mathematics.
There is not a province of Canada, of
which it is not true, that less and less
mathematics is studied in the schools.
There is, at the same time, not a province of which it is not true that more
and more students are professing to
follow “science” in the universities.

These things being so, it is difficult to

avoid the conclusion that much of the

so-called scientific studies in our uni
versities is a sham and a delusion.

 

 

 

 

BIRK

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

Friday and Saturday

THE PICTURE THAT NEVER
STANDS STILL

“PLUNDER”

Monday and Tuesday

“THE
MAGNIFICENT
LIE”

STARRING
RUTH CHATTERTON

Evenings
Matinee

20 & 30
25 Children 10

 
  
    
  
  
 
 

   

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments
and Victor Records ~

      
 
 

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

        

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| a

I warned you at the beginning that
I was going to talk to you seriously.
Think about things. If mathematics
was a bugbear to you at school, ask
yourself once again why you have come
to university. At least you cannot
hope to study science.

To one other matter I must call
your attention. The world has fallen
on evil days, and I cannot conscientiously omit to mention that. You
must all know, if you know anything,
that tens of thousands of your fellowcitizens in Canada are this very morning on the brink—I was going to say
“on the brink of starvation’’—but let
me put it this. way: on the very
precipice-edge of losing their self-respect, on the very thin edge which
separates Hope and Despair. For all
of us that is a terrible state of affairs.
Again, a good many in this room must
have some harrowing recollection of
the recent war. In the slogan and
catch-word of the time, it was called
a “War to end War’’. Yet, for years
after it, most of the great nations were
spending more on preparations for
the next war than they were spending
in 1918 and 1914. In 1931, the
United States and Europe are spending
about $750,000,000 more to prepare
for the next war than they were spending in 1925. No one seems to want
the next war, and yet the present
tendency indicates to students of history that the next war may, after all,
not be far away.

Now, why should I trouble your gay
souls this morning with such painful
matters- I had much rather not.
Those who are engaged by choice, as
I am, in education, must necessarily be
of sanguine mood. We believe intensely and passionately in the generosity
and sanity of youth; we believe no
less intensely and passionately in the
divine intelligence of things. I speak
to you therefore out of no gloom of
doubt. But I do speak to you, as I
said before, seriously, and gravely, as
seniors must occasionally speak to
juniors.

It is your business to understand.
It is your business to be intelligent.
Good-will, patriotism, generosity, enthusiasm are not enough. You must
understand. You must be intelligent.
You must judge, and act upon your
judgments. You must believe nothing.
You must believe no one. You must
believe neither your professors, nor
your text-books. You must certainly
not make the mistake of believing me.
You must be sceptical. You must
“prove all things.” You must remember that ‘‘it is the part of the wise
to save the world from the good.”
You must think for yourselves. Faith,

 

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

A COMPLETE

 

New Blues ---- 
 

 

SHANES MENS WEAR SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

Discount of Ten Per Cent. to Students

October 28rd, 1981

 
 

v2

of course, you must have—faith in |DAL. MOURNS—Cont. from bod Pine
humanity, faith in “‘the eternal verities” : G
but above all faith in yourselves and | honour; before him a
in the conscience and intelligence God | Of unselfish service ang penent to others
has given you. That means, to be seemed inevitable. 1€ has been said
precise, that you must not flog your- that the practice of Medicine is not in
selves into believing that something itself a noble thing but that the inis true, when you cannot see, for the dividual must make it noble. Bob’s
life of you, how it goes on all fours. | Passionate devotion and attitude toIf the programme of the Russian wards it exemplificd the highest nobilGovernment reminds you somehow | ity of its ideals.

of the Gospels in the New Testament, An Intelligence beyond our underread the Gospels again, and the standing has seen fit to end a career
Russian programme again, and ponder. | hardly begun but we know that Bob's
Don’t chatter like the newspapers. life has not been in vain. Medicine
But read the newspapers, too, Read | is built up stone by stone to make a
Milton about liberty. Remember a- glorious edifice and its stones are the
nother poet, Shelley: ‘Force from force blood and tears of its true followers.
must ever flow.” Are all the triumphs | [t was an obvious fact that Bob would

of either Bolshevism or Fascism worth |"°t have died had he not too greatly
while, ultimately worth while, if weakened himself by his zeal in the

purchased at the cost of Freedom? pursuit of his beloved profession.

“Freedom” is a word lightly uttered.
But no one can understand it who

does not understand the whole history C A SINO
Thur-Fri-Sat
OCT. 22, 23,24.

of Europe, and how freedom “slowly
“Salvation Nell”

broadened down”’ in the developments
of two great peoples, the Greeks and
the English. How much do you know,

E. B. Sheldon’s Famous Play
now a Great Picture
with

my young friends, of either? It is my
pleasant task this morning to welcome
RALPH GRAVES
HELEN CHANDLER

you to Dalhousie University, so that
we may discuss matters like these,

Mon-Tues.
Oct 26, 27

BILL BOYD
“The Big Gamble”

with

at career ful

  

 

 

 

~~ ___-
The Hall is completely filled this
year. There are forty two new girls
who have entered.

Miss Margaret White and Miss Elsie
McLachlan, B. Sc., former Dalhousie
students motored from Providence,
R. I., and spent a week in Halifax.

Miss Betty Condon was a recent
visitor at Shirreff Hall.

Miss Helen McDonald, Dal. ’28,
was visiting her sisterLilias McDonald.

Miss Zoe Patterson and Miss Muriei
Lawrence both of Dal. ’31 were recent
visitors at the Hall.

DOROTHY SEBASTIAN
WARNER OLAND

 

 

 

SUPPER DANCE

9 to 12 p. m.

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
HARRY COCHRANE’S ORCHESTRA

Cover Charge $1.00

 

Service A la Carte

The Lord Nelson Hotel

 

LINE OF DALHOUSIE SWEATERS

 


--- heres something for
the man who likes blues
the best------but is a bit
weary of the old reliable
Navy----soft-toned blues
just a shade lighter than
Navy---plain colors and
self-stripes --- distinctive
but not extreme-----and
certainly not expensive

we also feature the
nicest line of overcoats in town

 

 

 
