 

 

Ebi

 

 

 

JOL.LXII.

 

 

President Stanley|King’s Players to

Addresses Graduates in New York

_—_——

Tells of ‘changing conditions in Education—
_ Mr. Pearson relates
gossip of Campus

NEW YORK, March 27—(By the
Canadian Press)—Education today has
changed so much that it is unrecognizable, Dr. Carlton W. Stanley, president of Dalhousie University, at
Halifax, told one hundred graduates
ot the institution at their second annual
dinner in the Canadian Club here last
night.

Other speakers were Mr. G. Fred
Pearson, chairman of the board of
governors, and Mr. Albert Wiggin, well
known author and former newspaperman.

The Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett, Prime
Minister of Canada and a graduate of
the university, and Dr. George David
Stewart, honorary president of the
university, sent their regrets tor being
unable to attend.

Educational facilities and population
in the Dominion have evclutionized
unproportionately in the last century,
Dr. Stanley declared, making it more
difficult for universities and colleges

‘to administer their duties as efficiently

as their predecessors. The distraction
of students due to modern forms of
diversion such as cinemas, cheap novels,
sports events, is now in evidence,
whereas students in the old days gave
their time almost solely to more
nourishing subjects.

For four college institutions of that
period, twenty now operate throughout
the Dominion, Dr. Stanley said, but
the population of the country has not

_ advanced in such proportions. Furth
a) ‘ore, population is concentrated in
_« afsmall section ot Canada.
iy . result of wider fields in this,

  

 
 
 
  

A
t

    
 
   

e, the classics have been
atered down, and classical training
as been ignored by industry,

~
=
y

  

   

rs and trained men whose
tions,

are in the educational institutio have been bought by business,
he declared. Teaching of Greek has
virtually vanished, and Latin is taught

toa very small degree.

+
7

9 ’

a s

¢

  

    
      
       
 
    
   
 

    
 

    
     
      
      
    
 
   
 
      
     
     
        
        
  

     
   

_ The President said purity of speech

is more accentuated in the Maritime
Provinces than elsewhere.

Mr. Pearson gave the graduates
some local gossip from the university.
He said that the registered students at
the university had more than doubled
in the last decade. Many prominent
men of business, politics and public
affairs throughout the Dominion are
graduates of Dalhousie University,
Mr. Pearson declared. te

Mr. Wiggin spoke on ‘‘What Civil
__ ization is Doing to Us.”’

~~ —_

    

tL.

Basaks to Grads in N. Y,

 

>> Paiste

——

| ee MR. FRED PEARSON >

 
 

   

 

Present Play

The Importance of Being Earnest by
Oscar Wilde, a pure farce of quick
wits and refined intelligence is to be
given in the Playhouse of the Theatre
Arts Guild, Thursday and Friday of
this week by the King’s College Play
ers.

Oscar Wilde, who wrote Lady Windermere’s Fan, reached the peak of his
dramatic work with The Importance of
Being Earnest, ‘‘his best commentary
on frivolous society.’’ Wilde's earlier
plays have a touch of mediocrity
in attempting brilliancy of wit in social
criticism; but The Importance of Being
Earnest is lacking in any showiness and
superficiality. It stands as a bright
and swift-moving play.

The cast of the play is: Miss Dora
Baker, Rachel Wainwright, Winnie
Scott, Cecily Kirby, Mr. L. deB. Holly,
Ed. Cochran, Herold Holder and
John L, Crowe. The King’s College
Players have a fine reputation for
acting, and are remembered for their
performances in the old Majestic.
Theatre and for their summer tours
through the Province. This is their
first public performance in two years.

Students’ tickets are obtainable at
‘Phinney’s Music Store or from King’s
students at a reduced price, 75c. The
Playhouse Box Office will be open
Wednesday from 10 a. m. for seat
exchange.

An invitation has been extended to
His Excellency, the Lieutenant-Governor; and it is hoped that he will be
present at the Friday evening performance.

. 3
Batch Deering’s
s
Undoing
(An adaption from Ranch Classics
a Meet & Striths Publication. With
apologies).
Chapter I. |

 

With the rattle of big six-shooters in
their holsters, the tall, bronzed son of
the prairies, Pete Magee, entered the
confines of the three S$ Bar. He confronted Hetty Pertson, pretty barmaid.

‘‘Miss. Hetty Pertson, I believe,”
the fawn sombrero of two-gallon dimensions swept to the floor as Pete
made an elegant bow.

“Butch” Deering, foreman of the
Three S. Ranch, leapt from a nearby
table with the snarl of a varmint
rattler.

“‘None of your slick city ways around
here, stranger!”’ he snarled, ‘‘this hyar
is he-men’s country.”

The blue in the stranger’s eyes lit
up in silent fury. And into his hands
leapt two six-shooters. For five seconds lead sprayed fast.

When the smoke had cleared Hetty
and the two-gun man, Pete Magee,
were gone.

“****!"" onashed Butch as he rose
from a pool of blood, ‘“‘thars only
one hombre as has ever played me this
trick, and ‘“‘Butch’ll’” get him sure.”

Chapter II.

“Miss Hetty,” the melodious voice
of Pete Magee crooned above the
music of the grasshoppers, ‘‘Miss
Hetty, I’m a-askin’ you to believe in
me. I ain't doin’ you no hurt. Will
you believe in me gal?”’

“Stranger,’’ and Hetty’s voice was
strong with the calm womanly assurance of a girl from Shirreff Hall, ‘‘I
don't know wot yore game is, but I'll
trust yo.”

The chill blur eyes of the stranger,
Pete Magee, glowed.

“Come, Hetty, this ain’t no time for
fooling. Thar’s work to be done.”

(Continued on insert 2a).

 

COUNCIL ELECTIONS
TO-DAY

Voting until 6 p. m.
MAIN ENTRANCE GYM

  

 

ay

RSITY STORE--MEDICAL LIBRAR

‘| betweew

 

THE HART HOUSE STRING QUARTEE,
who will appear at Dal on April 5th.

Unique Decision in Last

Debate of Season

Judges Declare Draw Between Dalhousie and St. F.
X. Forensic Artists

Inclement weather held many away
from an excellent debate last Tuesday
Saint Francis) Xavier and
Dalhousie. Dalhousie’s team of
Messrs, R. McCarthy, Squires and
Anderson upheld the affirmative of the
resolution: ‘That the League of Nations, as present constituted, is an
effective instrument for the preservation of world peace’”’ against the negative of the Sr. F. X. team, Messrs.

‘J. B. Lynch, Cunningham and Mac
donald. Mr. G. Fred Pearson, chairman of the Board of Governors, presided and introduced the speakers in
a short address of welcome.

Mr. R. McCarthy, betore proceeding
with his argument, interpreted the
resolution, stressing the present constitution of the League and its efficacy
as an agent for the maintenance cf
world peace. _ Before introducing the
five points on which the affirmative
based its case, the leader declared the
League to be a police force to ‘‘keep
the peace” and not an instrument for
the complete abolition of all war.
The five beams of the affirmative's
argument were: 1. Settlement of Disputes. 2. Reduction of Armaments.
3. Improvement of Trade and Commerce. 4. Peace Education. 5. International Social Work. The leader
took the first two points and enlarged
on them. It was through the League's
instrumentality that there was now a
spirit of “‘open” diplomacy in international affairs. Although the League
in its disarmament policy met with
a spirit of arms that had rested in the
nations of Europe for centuries, the
League has not ceased to treat for
reduction.

Mr. J. B. Lynch led off for the
visitors with a word of appreciation
for the welcome he and his confreres
had received at Dalhousie’s hands.
Mr, Lynch in opening his arguments
stated that he did not wish to be
cynical, following on Mr. McCarthy's
commendations for, the League, yet he
was forced to proceed with a plain
examination of facts. The negative
pointed out the break-down of the
League, citing cases where the League
had failed in arbitration and the breakdown of Disarmament Conferences, one
after another. Mr. Lynch said that
the League owed its lack of power to
the absence of a League Army, an
inability to persuade the nations
through confidence, and to an inability
to use boycott effectively. The exis
 

tence of the League is no proof of its
effectiveriegs. The League, through
non-conhdence of its members, is
powerless and is therefore not an
effective instrument for the maintenance of World Peace.

Mr. R. A. Squires, ridiculed the
statements of the speaker tor the
negative, and continued in an interesting manner to establish in the minds
of the audience the facts of the League's
stability. Mr. Squire’s spoke of the
League as moving slowly and cautiously, with the knots of centuries to untangle. In speaking of the apparent
disrespect shown by Japan to the
League in the Chino-Japanese crises,
he said, hasty action by the League
might bring on a war of more universal
dimensions. The League has done
things, it is doing them and it has
plans for the future. Criticism must
always be on the party in power, no
matter what are the circumstances of
its tenure of office. The League is
the safety valve of international patiecce, For the present, in this role,
the League can maintain world peace.

Mr. Mcdonald stated the League
to be failing in its task because of a
rampant spirit of nationalism among
its members. The present constitution
of the League is against the establishment of justice. The !arge nations
have too great an influence over the
smaller members,

Mr. C. W. Anderson took up the
social weltare work of the League as a
most valuable effort for the maintenance of world peace. And in speaking
of the League as a weapon, not ot
force, but of public opinion, Mr. Anderson discussed the educational work
which the League had taken up in
its Peace work.

Mr. Cunningham spoke humorously
and very well on the ineffectiveness of
the League. He cited cases where the
League had failed through lack of
cenfidence and inefficiency. He spoke
of the spirit of partizanship that
existed in the League’s decisions on
several occasions, and in a fine peroration condemned the League in its
present constitution as worse than
useless, an institution that aggravated
causes for war.

The Saint Francis rebuttal was
addressed to the Dalhousie team, and
laid out before the leader of the affirmative many questions which the
negative claimed to have not been

(Continued onp age 4).

nalist Defends
Co- Education

Wrong Attitudes.
(By R. Grahtham in the Ubyssey).
Wrong Attidudes.

I find myself rising again to defend
co-education. It appears that the
vice-principal of Queen’s has denounced
that place as ‘‘woman-infested’’—much
to the indignation ot the student body.

Having some personal knowledge
of Queen’s students, I think there is
no cause for concern. Dr. McNeill’s
picture is exaggerated.

It is better that a college man’s
knowledge of women should be obtained through co-education rather than,
as one understands was the custom
fifty years ago, from a class of ladies
not acceptable to polite society. The
modern association of men and women
in study and recreation is much more
likely to foster morality, respect, and
sane appreciation between the sexes.
Marriages among University people
have been found to be more otten
successful than marriages among the
rest of the population, because the
former are in a better position to
chocse wisely, partners who are temperamentally and intellectually suited.

Some students make fools of themselves and bring co-education into
disrepute. It should be recognized
that students are not a race apart, but
simply a cross-section of the public.
The blame shotld nct be placed on the
co-educational arrangement, but on
wrong attitudes developed by such
factors as the salacious impression of
co-education broadcast by certain
pecple, most of whem ought to know
better; sins of commission and omission
in the home; and the preoccupation
of literature and the screen with the
“love” theme. . rf we lee

All these factors%help develop un
desirable attitudes in the less stable
student element, and these attitudes
are sometimes reflected in _ foolish
conduct., Let the older generations
upbraid @héemselves, not the results of
the influences for which ‘they are
responsible. These influences lead to
inordinate sex-consciousness and lack
of a sense of values. Their strength in
modern life is attested in the junior
high schools, for example, where you
may behold many monstrous little
girls with painted lips and cheeks
and you can readily guess what subject
is their chief concern. Let the older
generations indulge in some honest
self-criticism’ and devote intelligent
thought to these matters.

Kappa Beta Phi

The Kappa Beta Phi Sorority will
hold their annual banquet at the Nova
Scctian Hotel on Wednesday evening
March 29. This will be the final
social function of the sorority for this
year. Miss Lilian Sadler who has been
the president for the past year will act
as chairman.

 

 

 

 

~~. ---~—
ThreeGrouvsHold
Combination Tea

Three groups namely, the Apha
Gamma Delta Fraternity, the Sigma
Theta Pi Sorority and the Kappa Beta
Pi Sorority will hold a combined tea
through the voice of the Panhellenic
Society at Miss Laura Marshall’s,
Tower Road on Saturday, April 2nd.
The patronesses and the members of
the three groups will be present.

Notice

It has been brought to the Editor’s
attention that one of the articles printed last week in respect to the Glee
Club dispute has been widely interpreted as to lend Editorial support to the
statement of one of the parties to the
dispute. Such was not the Editor’s
intention, but the policy of the Gazette
was only to present impartially both
sides of the controversy in so far as
they were ascertainable. All articles
that appeared were at all times made
expressly available to both parties
concerned.

 

    

 

PHAROS.---THE YEAR BOOK OF DALHOUSIE

ON SALE AT
Y--STUDLEY--FORREST BLDG. PRICE $3.00 PER COPY

‘of coaching and

 
    
  
 
   
  
 
   

aid received.
dents who were the victims of some
catastrophe; the German students, for
example, during the time of the inflation of their currency; the Bulgarians,
after an earthquake; the Chinese, in
civil war; the South Africans,
drought.
to receive such assistance in the event
of another disaster,
are other ways of receiving aid than by
merely taking money or food and clothng; and it is on those ways that the
f Ds

   
   
  

   
  
  
    
    
    
  
  
       

 

  

No. 20

 

Chivalrous Jour-\I. S. S. Decides

For

Programme

Next Year

Committee formed to assist students in different fields.

Three committees have been formed
at Dalhousie with plans for 1932-33, as
follows:

1. Employment: The aim will be
to bring together those who wish odd
jobs, and those who have work to be
done. If you have a typewriter, we
advise you to practise during the holidays, as odd typing jobs are cften
available, .There are possibilities also,
“evening house-keeping.’ If you are interested in any
of these or if you have suggestions for
any employment, get in touch with
Robert Donald, cr William H. Jost
of the Law School.

2. Social Service: This committee
plans to organize work with underprivileged children; and supervised
play (e. g. football) with school children
after school hours.

3. Study group: This committee
hopes to gather together for discussion
in smail groups students who are interested in international and national affairs,

In addition to interesting themselves
in the local work of I. S. S., it is hoped,
that a large number of Dalhousians
will wish to keep personally in touch
with its world activities. This «is
possible through the publications of the
movement, of which the chief are:

“I. S. S. ANNALS,” a quarterly
review of student life throughout the
world. (Price, $1.00).

“MORE FACTS,” a monthly news
sheet, recording events in the student
world. (Price, $1.00).

Besides these, the movement publishes an annual report, reports of
conferences, and occasional pamphlets
on subjects of particular interest at
the time of publication.

Any person who is sufficiently interested to give at least $2.00, becomes

a “Friend o7 J. S.3S.” and receives al
the above mentioned publications.

Answers to I. S. S.

 

Queries

(Continued from last week.)

The second question was about the
That was given to stu
after
Halifax students might hope

Of course, there

S. lays most stress. They are

(Continued on page 4).

Year Book Editor

   

i - ES Sats :

MR. FRED WIGMORE

               
   
 
       

  
 
  
       
     
  
  

| COMMENT

For the Next American President.

 

In early November of every fourth
year there are great elections in the

   
 
 
 

e PA: a> Pao Managing Editors: ee oer - lined 2 canre ese eae r ; idates stand for thousands of offices—
a MacDONALD, B. A. THOMAS A. Denies. - ra sb offices county, state and federal. The
att ies L2890 WILLIAM H.J oo Soe voter who takes his duty conscien
 

Be ten Manes, Associates: re is ee tee with a mighty
be sap H. B. CHANDLER task, 2 often his bal Pe isa oer tee
De LILLI AN SADLER, B. A affair bearing scores of names. ut
Meg ; a of the welter of candidates and plat: DANIEL SPRY forms, campaigns and party tickets,
ie _% ere acct ee avencee geeaty and enintey, see
ee | : T. W. eclou e issue in every election
kK Girls : Sports Editor: there emeiges in the limelight the
Pe  - 2"  epAnys ti _ JOST R. D. PUCEEMIN election of the es counters _
f 146° determine, the next President of the
lin. Bou - News Editors: republic. The presidential election
h . MARGARET DORMAN seems to Spat uAeey the en et
I . aneous election of minor officials
ai; eee tice Fifty million voters sit in judgment,
ELI ’ _ | their principal concern to decide which
Business Manager: RUTH CRANDALL Asst. Business Manager: | of two individuals is to occupy the
DONALD MAHON ene -A ee ete post of government in

B1826 the world.
‘tor: Sports Reporter: It has been remarked frequently
en B.S renee Hane that no sooner has one of the quadAARON 7 qs rennial presidential campaigns been
I concluded than the interested farces
ee hl re l,l UC. «CL begin. to shape their plans for the
a 2 PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB&SON, 7-9-I1 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S. [1..+ one. The election is a_ tussle
eee between. two gigantic and very efficient
pce T HOUSE QUARTET party organizations, Each advances
THE HAR ‘ its standard-bearer for the great office.
Each must set about selecting its
On Tuesday evening next, Dalhousie music-lovers will have ee ote ee,
the opportunity of hearing the celebrated Hart House String] The intricate process provides ample
Quartet from Toronto. This internationally renowned group has|drama to stimulate the public interest.
been brought to the city through the efforts of the Glee Club, and ere it produces some curious

: ; : : esults.

will appear in the new Studley gymnasium. The Presentation) “1, the Republican Party President
will mark the first professional entertainment to be held in the} Hoover, who apparently seeks renombuilding under purely student auspices. It is intetesting to note|ination, appears likely to get it. The
that the institution which makes possible the performance of these | cards are stacked heavily in favour ofa
ye : bv the H Vi t President for a second term nomination,
talented musicians was founded eight years ago by the Hon. Vincen fete “banaine of the: tremendous
Massey, whose oratorical ability and pleasant personality are still] ,ower of patronage vested in his official
well remembered by participants in the Dalhousie Reunion of 1929. person. Only once since the Civil
_~-——sO&¥Rver since their inauguration, the quartet has met with unqualified] War has ; Presiden : wie sagt
___ suecess, and numerous tours throughout the North American conti- fy purpose ann ehcee grit
nent have served to enhance an already enviable reputation. By]an overwhelming personal objection
ae many critics they are regarded as one of the finest chamber-music] to President Arthur who had succeeded
| - eombinations in the world. The Glee Club officials are to be eee ee Vit ROSEY ane ad. : ai BONS nigh - ; 4 ~ Es ministration o AVE Ls oover has DY
heartily commended for the initiative they have displayed in making ete Gest cAR Apqualified auccess
i." possible the forthcoming concert. We hope that the students willl and there is a very loud element of
|. __ show their appreciation by supporting the venture to the utmost] opposition to him within the Party.

Present conditions, and the exigencies
which always attend a party convention, may leave a loop-hole for the
defeat of his nomination,’ yet his
success seems fairly secure.

In the ranks of the Democrats the
story is not quite so simple. A Democratic nominee requires the support
of two-thirds of the delegates.

The Democratic Party is essentially
a party of opposition formed of such
incongruous elements as the. fanatical
belt of the South and toreign element

of their ability.
Boh. HIGH RELIGION AND THE COLLEGE STUDENT.

eee It is frequently remarked with a note of dismay, that in the
-——spresent age religion has lost its appeal for a large number of college
| -—s students. Staid critics belonging to the old school deeply deplore
-———s- this fact; and they lay no small amount of blame on modern uniSe _ versities, within whose walls the seeds of heterodoxy germinate.
- ah bel at ce they believe to be hot-beds of atheism, ékeptic
   
   

ap,
I

 
     
 

, ae

ee ism, and radical thinking of all kinds. From them thousands of] of the large Eastern cities. Many of
a > ¥ young people emerge every year, their heads full of information, | its past conventions have been stormy
le patie aC adieoray, have resulted in the nomination

a eS ge fake é a ; ‘ e “ys ° <n and
Rote and their hearts ahi ar Sg ge Is it BC the critics ask, Bee eae holes cites
ss am OMINOUS, a terrible thing at can it proht anyone tO €N-| weeks of wrangling and scores of ballots.

compass the whole realm of knowledge, and at the same time lose] In 1928 Mr, Al Smith was nominated
~~ ‘the faith of his fathers? How, in short, can profound religious}on the first ballot. The subsequent

belief be reconciled with higher education? election saw his defeat by the greatest

The question is surely a prodigious one. Along what path a]college, although the total vote polled
lasting solution lies, no person can be wholly certain; and yet, ae a was ee nearly equal to the
one might offer a few suggestions. In the first place, the popular} epubucan. One very important conreligion on which the vast majority of students are reared, | iteration which operated against him

eiigion On ie 5 teens was that of religion. For some time
contains many principles that to an enlightened individual appear|it appeared understood that Mr.
groundless and even absurd. These principles are commonly|Smith would not try for a second
based not on an appeal to reason, but on an appeal to credulity. ROEM SE, and pets support
Hence, education which exalts the ratiocinative power of man in the] ¥?" d be lent to Mr, Roosevelt, his

; 4 t Albany. The b
exercising of logical and coherent thought, is fundamentally opposed SAG Eacmce “De eo.

ee

Mr, Roosevelt for Democratic nominee

el
‘

r to them. Popular religion extols the will to believe; liberal educa-|has been progressing since 1929 and
| tion, the wish to find out, as embodied in the modern sciences. | with such success that he is now the
; These are the acids which dissolve dogma. These are the forces| leading candidate in the field. Mr.

3 er Te ‘ : Smith, however, has s fit t lit
that play havoc with the religious beliefs of childhood. They leave atk er caeie eee icanan Ri Peg

one alone with a barren skepticism or a defiant atheism, unable to|himself. In addition to these two
find an adequate answer to the eternal enigmas. there are four other outstanding Demo
! But there is one kind of religion—perhaps, indeed, the only There ie Roos ee
| true kind—which remains forever unaffected by the passage of|retary of War in President Wilson’s
r time or the changing styles of science. It exists serene and im-|cabinet, Governor Ritchie of Maryland
1} = mutable above the raucous clamour of warring sects and creeds, soe of a a ieenre, GoverKy because it is based not on any supra-mundane sanction, but on the athe Teka ee aces Me
ly Me nobility of man’s nature. We may call it, if we like, high|House. In the two primaries held to
1 : religion.

It was what Lord Morley meant when he spoke of ‘‘that|date Governor Roosevelt has carried
new faith, as yet without a universally recognized label, whose

the states, are New Hampshire
; heaven is an ever-closer harmony between the consciousness of from Mir; Smith, soe. orth Dakota
| man and all the natural forces of the universe, whose liturgy is

from Governor Murray. The great

ural L the question is whether or not Roosevelt

culture, and whose deity is a certain high composure of the human|can amass suflicient support to carry
the convention on the first ballot.

= spirit.” This is the sort of teaching that students seem to need i haan ieo the ee :
i in these days of riotous unbelief; a teaching which takes as itS] tion se ehttlod J” EE tha eer es inna
7 beginning the memorable words of Viscount Haldane: “God is not] the required two-thirds the result may

outside us, but is within our breasts, an almighty, ever-present|be a deadlock which, to judge from

 
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
    
 
  
  
   
   
    
    
  

deity. This is a principle we-do well to make our own as early as he: Henge rec sy ee est, wil eve
: Lie + +3 é nce to take the
we can in life, and keep always before our eyes. Nemiinatiod "on. 6. Conan,
Unless the Democrats ruin their
. IN RETROSPECT. prospects in a convention wrangle their

Soe soos the country are
a i : ood, e Kepublica noul
The present issue of the Gazette marks the conclusion of another|fhe blame for business conditions ere

rb tumultuous season in the career of the old college paper. In many they are. In the Senate and House
_-—___— respects the year has been an eventful one. It witnessed, among or eoatg 1930 the Democrats came
-___ other things, the inauguration of a new pilot at the helm of the| 0%” fying colours and so increased
ees atest oe , = ee : their House strength that they were
: university; the erection of a fine, ultra-modern gymnasium on the | able to elect their nominee for Speaker.
By campus; and the tragic passing of the beloved Assistant Dean of] Recently the Democratic majority
Medicine. Yet these events merely constitute a part of the mani-|seems to have petered out over the
bm ; ‘ ee Pte | : : : ; ax bills but this may be but a temei fold changes which swiftly speeding Time inevitably brings to pass. hang situation wiiele aa leas a
eee From the point of view of the Editors, however, the current | before political talk in the Fall.
eae a term has meant just a repetition of the old, old story. They have} The Prohibition issue is working
ae been subjected to a steady barrage of advice, admonition, exhorta-|itself into the campaign. The leading
_ tion, suggestion, excoriation and censure. The paper itself has/candidates are very chary of any
been the recipient of every conceivable type of brickbat, from the (Continued on page 3)
_ fatuous sarcasms of the lecture-room to the explosive out-bursts

%
-7

____ of some of the undergraduates. It is really astounding to discover
_____ how much latent editorial talent there is around the college. Al‘most every person one meets has a clearcut idea of how the Gazette
should be managed, and, indeed, would be managed, if that particur individual chose to exercise his genius. But none of the critics
ele ived the beautiful thought of offering the Editors a word

the siege is over at last.
longer, and can now rejoice with
certainly are doing so,

     

 
 
 

    
  
 

  

: Yy
4
s ‘
fd x 5
f a” _ , . 5 ~
if a i J . o , # ; 7:
i , , ; 4 : 4 < C - hy ut v # ss 7 i ; >
ig ts, ; cee. a eT a. Me Wt ee
A* - ry 4 A. on
i 4s e wake \ * ee
*. a us ‘ \

     

er

 

or two of appreciation to cheer them in their labours.
latter were foolish to expect any such words.
and done there is a good deal of human nature in man.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE ~

 

THE

More Elections.

Lack of Interest.
Nomination by Committee.
Finis.

mow

 

More Elections.

To-morrow the Arts and Science
Students will go to the polls again to
vote a second time upon the complete
ballot. Whether another election was
rendered necessary by carelessness or
by misdemeanor is a matter for conjecture. At any rate, we believe that
the Student Council has the matter
well in hand and that everything will
be done comme ti faut. The new ballots are being printed on colored paper
to make impossible any confusion with
the old. To determine the Glee Club
officers the old ballets of the professional schools will be recounted in
conjunction with the counting of the
new ones in Arts and Science.

Lack of Interest.

A regrettable feature of this abortive
election was the smallness of the
number of students who voted. Less
than fifty per cent exercised their right
of franchise. It is to be hoped that
a much larger number will turn out
tomorrow.

Nomination by Committee.

In perusing some of the College
Exchanges we note that a different
nomination system is in vogue at a
number of other universities. Instead
of the nominations being made at
open meeting as at Dalhousie, they are
made by five or more persons making
a nomination in writing and handing it
in to a committee of the Student
Council a fixed number of days before
election day. Advocates of this method maintain that itis conducive to the
selection of better candidates and that
the open meeting, run as it usually
is throughout the year by a clique,
does not lend itself to representative
nomination.

Finis.

And now, with examinations only
three weeks away, the Gazette must
suspend publication, after this, the
twentieth issue. We would like to
continue long enough to record the
successful candidates in the coming
election and to announce our successor
in office, but this, of course, is impossible.

Whatever success we may have
achieved this year has been due in
exceedingly great measure to the staff
whom the Editors were fortunate
enough to have associated with themselves. It is, fitting’ that their cooperation and support be acknowledged
here, and appreciation expressed in the
columns for the success of which they
worked so hard.

So, with a goodbye and geod luck to
Class 382 and an au revoir to the others,
we go to press for the final edition of

majority ever gathered in the electoral | '31-’32.

——= ie

Contradicts Correction

March 24th, 19382.
156 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, N. S.

Editor of Dal Gazette.

Dear Sir:

On the first page of your issue of
March 23rd appears ‘‘A Correction,”
which appears to me to be a direct
contradiction of statements credited to
myself, appearing in the third page of
the same issue.

Statements may vary greatly in
interpretation when being passed along
from one person to another, but fortunately facts do not alter.

It is said that formal application,
according to regulations posted, was
not made until word was sent about
that the Gym would be so used, However the fact remains that forma
application was written to Mr. Stirling’
according to regulations, at least four
days before notices were posted. As
an act of courtesy I called President
Stanley even before framing my formal
application, so that he might be acquainted with the fact that a performance was being considered. Admittedly, as I stated before, the question
of dancing slipped my mind at the time.

I also contend that I stated that the
Newman Club performance was to
be held under Gle Club auspices, but
it is possible that this may not have
been clearly understood by President
Stanley. However the formal application was certainly made by Glee Club
and nat by Newman Club.

Resenting what I consider an implication of falsehood on my part,
I submit these remarks in support of
the truth of my original statements.

Sincerely,

A. DOUGLAS GIBBON,
President Dal. Glee Club.

Perhaps the
Yet when all’s said
Anyhow,

The student body will be pestered no

gladdened hearts. The Editors

 

Co-education.

A Theory of Humor.

Swan Songs.

is at all beneficial, but rather a hindrance; that which is suited in the
education of men is in many cases
unsuited for the instruction of women,
and the reverse also holds true.” This
is the opinion of one of Canada’s outstanding educators, Dr. Hamilton Fyfe,
Principal of Queen’s University, given
in an interview to the McGill Daily.
He pointed out the difficulty of arranging any system of teaching which
could be advantageously employed,
and admitted that for himself he could
never stand up and lecture before a
mixed class as well as he could before
one consisting of men only. It was
also his opinion that the present system
of compulsory attendance is in most
cases not only unnecessary, but utterly
useless, He believed that too many
examinations are held at the present
time. On the whole he was for fewer
examinations and less compulsory attendance at lectures.

The editor of the Dazly however takes
issue with Dr, Fyte on the criticism of
co-education, and contends that with
segregation one of the greatest benefits
of college life would disappear, the
friendly relations by which both sexes
may become familiar with the traits
and characters of one another. The
Queen's principal had reterred to the
fact that as soon as classes are released,
the men make a beeline for the women,
and all that is to be seen afterwards is
the holding of hands. The editor is
deeply shocked at this and cannot
conceive of anything of the sort happening at McGill nor at any other
university. Yet even Dalhousie, especially in the springtime, has its
exponents of this noble art.

A Theory of Humor.

A theory of humour was recently
expounded by Max Eastman, poet and
literary commentator, at Dartmouth
in a lecture on ‘Why we Laugh like
Human Beings.’ Humour arises, according to Mr, Eastman, out of disappointed expectations, as when in
an earnest endeavour to nail down a
carpet you only succeed in hammering
your finger. But a disappointed expectation is funny only when you are
in a state of play. This role of play
which he called an instinctive state of
being, is a serious dogma of his theory.
Humour is nothing more than the
play-substitute for pain. He followed
the definition of Immanuel Kant who
defined a joke as the strained expectation that comes to nothing. This is
exemplified in children who have a
most primitive and violent sense of
humour and who invariably laugh at
nething. In adult life it emanates in
the form of ‘‘Irish Bulls’ which seem
to be real but actually have no point

—_—_—
_

Co-education.
“T do not believe that |

March 30th, 1932

 

Invictus

Out of the Night that covers me,
Black as the pit from pole to pole,
I thank whatever gods may be
For my unconquerable soul.

In the fell clutch of circumstance

I have not winced or cried aloud.
Under the bludgeonings of chance
My head is bloody but unbowed.

Beyond this vale of wrath and tears
Looms out the horror of the shade,

And yet, the menace of the years ©
Finds and shall find me unafraid.

It matters not how strait the gate,
How charged with punishment the
scroll,
I am the master of my fate
lam the captain of my soul.

W. E. HENLEY.

 

to them. The point of a joke arises
when that apparent nothing turns out
to be something. The type of joke
from the situation where you acknowledge a truth that you wouldn’t be
reckless endugh to say otherwise, is
employed by Will Rogers and Charlie
Chaplin, who are funny because of
their ability to tell the truth, to show
;the sanity of an insane situation.
Another type is the disappointed
expectation of another individual for
whom you have a sympathetic interest.
This is the situation where there is a
‘joke on’ somebody. It is the easiest
and commonest because we can take
disappointment in a
conventional situation with a _ sex
background, This sex sort of humour
is appealed to so often because it is
Now you tell one.

other people’s

very reliable.
Swan-Songs.

This is the open season for swansongs in college newspapers. The
Queen's Journal decided not to tempt
fate too strongly and thereupon refused to print the same editorial as
had been used in final issues for three
consecutive years, and struck out
manfully into the unpath’d waters of
originality, as if it were possible to
do so. Writing a final editorial must
be in our opinion one of the sweetest

 

tasks of a well-spent life. For example, imagine the pastoral detachment of the editor of the ./ournal while
penning this—‘‘At the kind-souls who
were always prompt to damn with
faint praise or worse and never approved of our policy we now take great
pleasure in thumbing our nose. Their
biting comment and satiric lettérs at
one time played hob with out sleeping
hours, but gradually our skin hardened
and they no longer reached home.’;
Such a pious thought could only come
from one who had learnt in suffering’
what he taught in song. The editor

of the Torento Varsity has been dis
illusioned too. He says ‘‘In spite of
all our noble animadversions we have
been assured by several of our friends
the the ‘greatest achievement of our
editorial career’ was the _ successful
attempt to persuade a local tea-shop
to give customers a second cup of
coffee free of charge.’”’ With such reflections we say farewell to our Alma
Mater and pray heaven that our suctg may be as bright as we have
| been.

 

Take Warning--
 

College Men!

 

Once upon a time, twos

ons, who were the pride and

joy of their parents, expressed a desire to go to Dalhousie
where they might gain great knowledge from the seers

and prophets at that seat
proached their sire, asking

to purchase raiment befitting College men.

of learning. So they aphim for lucre with which
Being a

good ‘‘egg’’ he gave them each many shekels and bade
them Godspeed. One betook himself to an unheard-of

purveyor of shoddy merchandise, who fitted him

in

bold garments which he avowed were surely Collegiate—
but when he appeared on the Campus he was the cause

of much merriment and ridicule.

times given the merry razzb

His brother being exc
SHANE’S and when he was

And he was ofterry.

eedingly wise, repaired to
seen by his fellow students,

he was hailed as one of them and rushed by the leading
fraternities, because he looked the part and expressed

the true college spirit—-yea,

verily —

———

 

Shanes Mens Wear

30 Spring SHOP Garden pa.

Discount of 10

% to students

 

 

 
    
     

 

ae
:
\

fi

ul

\

 

During the last few months, the
activities of Communists in various
parts of Canada have led to their

_ prosecution and conviction under section 98 of the Criminal Code, which
Pa declares that any organization whose
ee purpose is to bring about political
be. changes by violence, is unlawful.
_ «Tt reads as follows: 7
Sub-section 1: Any association, organization, scciety or corporation,

whose purposes is to bring about any
governniental, industrial or economic
change within Canada by use of force,

, violence or physical injury to person or
a property, or by threats of such injury
or which teaches, advocates, advises
F or defends the use of force, violence,
' terrorism, or physical injury to person

; or property, or threats of such injury,
o. in order to acconiplish such change, or
for any other purpose, or which shall
by any means orosecute or pursue
such purpose or prcfessed purposes, or

- shall so teach, advocate, advise or
+ defend, shall be unlawful association.
ead Sub-section three provides a maxia mum punishment of twenty years for
F any one who participates in such
a organizations.

ei On at least two occasions a motion
to repeal this section has passed the
House of Commons, but has been deoth feated in the Senate. During the
> resent session Mr. Woodworth, the
Take member from Winnipeg, attempted to bring in a similar bill, but
Was prevented from putting it before

the house.
Of course we do not presume to say
that the provision is absolutely unwise
at least if it is used reasonably, and
» not as a mere instrument to try to
ey eradicate Communism, it will probably
(ay do no harm. But a regulation of this
nature always raises the question that
has been asked for centuries in connection with free speech: ‘‘Is it wiser to
___ punish or ignore?” Of course if an
: ~ organization with revolutionary intent

, were to become strong enough to create
a any serious trouble and actually did
so it would be punishable under treason
i: or sedition or as an unlawful assembly.
P. Of course we are not in sympathy with

Jo the actual use of violence, but the
section in question goes much further
than the mere prohibition of violence.
. It prevents a man from even adyocating force even in a case where his proposals are absolutely preposterous and

rganizations

(From THE GATEWAY)

whose professed purpose or one of

   

 

of absolutely no weight. A man cannot address or even attend a meeting
of an organization that has some
dream or far-fetched
revolution, no matter how innocuous
it may be in fact. That is to say, not
only is violence forbidden, but the
mere idea of ever using it.

As far as the particular Communists
who have been convicted under the
section are concerned, they may not
deserve any particular sympathy, but

the point is; is it wish to punish them. |

The principle is essentially that of trespeech which was advocated so forcefully and logically by Milton three
hundred years ago in his Areopagitica,
and has been established in England
ever since it was championed by John
Wilkes in the tollowing century.

Assuming that the ideas put forth by
the Communists are rash and impracticable, it does not seem to us that an
attempt to suppress them by criminal
punishment will ha ve the desired effct.
It would be better to permit them to
circulate freely and they will dissipate
themselves. The latter course has
been followed in England and the
former in the United States, and now
to a slight extent in Canada, In the
United States Communists are regarded with the utmost disfavor and have
rather a bad time at the hands of the
law. It is hard to see how the punishment of one man will take the ideas
that he has been advocating out of the
heads of his listeners. It may make
them cautious, but will not rid them
of their convictions.

In England, on the other hand, a
different policy is followed. Sedition
and seditious libel are offenses, as
they are here. As Dicey says in his
Law of the Constitution: ‘‘The law, it
is true. .. .sanctions criticism on public
affairs which is intended to recommend
the reform of existing legal institutions
of legal methods. But anyone will see
that the legal definition of a seditious
libel might easily be so used as to check
a great deal of what is ordinarily considered allowable discussion, and would
if rigidly enforced be inconsistent with
prevailing forms of political agitation.”

Everyone has heard of the soap-box
orators in Hyde Park, London, who are
permitted with immunity to revile
everybody and everything—not only
are they not arrested, but the very
police whom they condemn protect

(Continued on page 8a).

 

  
   
 

  

  

- MARITIME TILE COMPANY

: MANTLES, GRATES, MARBLE, BERAMIC
| . MOSIAC, TERRAZZO FLOORS

MANUFACTURERS AGENTS
682 BARRINGTON STREET

 

| The Shower Baths in New Gymnasium
oe were Tiled by us.

Our Specialty is the Supplying and Setting

of Floor and Wall Tiles in public
and private buildings.

_ MARITIME TILE COMPANY

 

      
 

  
 
     

 

We Furnished a good part of

The New Dalhousie Gymnasium

LL the Stage Draperies were made in our own
workroom and installed by us—we supplied
furniture and carpets for the Staff Community
Room--supplied and installed the white Holland
blinds—supplied cocoa matting rugs for Main and
Side entrances—also supplied a number of kitchen

chairs.
department.

All under the supervision of our Contract

_ The Contract Dept.

; consult you.

“

_ An Interior

he

1%

«od

*
*

  

al ‘

   

>

Always ready to call and give estimates on furnishing
- home or office and buildings.
will be only too glad to send a representative to

If you will call we

Decorator

4 If you are refurnishing your home and rooms our
Interior Decorator will be pleased to suggest harGg _monizing drapes and furniture and advise you in the
| -. selection of furnishings.

_ ¢T.BATONC?

 

 

lan of social]

     

Prince

Sydney

(From THE XAVERIAN)

 

A Comedy in Two Acts.

Place: The New World.
Time: Some time ago.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE.

King Halifax—King of Nova Scotia.
Queen Truro—Wife to King.
Sydney—Prince of Cape Breton.
Princess Moncton—Daughter to King
Fredericton of N. B.
Fool—King’s Jester.
Messenger—
Court Attendants—

ACT I—SCENE—1,

SCENE: Royal Palace.

(Enter King Halifax and fool).

King (soliloquizing): What for to
live when one’s beard is growing gray,

"Tis time to die when gout stands in
the way
_ Of making whoopee... .

(At this last word the King kicks
his foot away above his head in the
manner of a follies dancer).

Fool: What boots it in such a manner?

(Enter Prince Sydney).
resumes his royal dignity).

Prince: 'Camera how, your
majesty?

King: Camera hash pain, noble son-—

Fool: No wonder. Hash would give
anybody a pain.

(Enter a messenger).

King: How now, knave
Messenger (flinging himself on his
face before the King): A telegram for
your majesty.

King: Hand it here. (The king
spits on the floor, rips open the telegram and reads): ‘‘King Fredericton of
New Brunswick hast been seen marching at the head of a large army. Dost
fear he will take Ambherst.”’ (King
Halifax jumps six feet in the air and
rends his royal robes). By Hercules!
Our neighbor, New Brunswick has advanced against us. No Christmas
card does he get from us this year.

Fool: He didn’t get one last year.

King: He has his eye set on Amherst.
Yet we have the gout and we cannot
kick. We must rely on you, Sydney.

Prince: (throwing his head into the
air): Noble father, I am at your command.

King: You will lead our army of
Scotchmen against the invader at
once or well. ...

Prince: Ay, Ay, noble majesty.

(Exeunt in different directions).

Curtain.
*x* * * *

SCENE II—THE SAME.

(Enter Queen Truro and fool.)

Queen: O my, my, Sydney is going
to war. I have fear lest he will fall
off.his horse and get hurt.

Fool: Nay, nay, madam. Perchance
an enemy bullet will pierce his royal
suspenders.

ueen: Oh! (she faints).

(The fool revives her with a bucket

of water handed up from the orchestra

pit).

(The King

royal

(Enter Prince Sydney),
Prince: Royal mother, I must needs
leave youforatime. I have heard the

call of my country and I go to answer

it lest I feel the boot of my father.
(Queen faints again).
Prince: Farewell, noble mother.
(Exit).
(A clatter of hoofs is heard and it
must be assumed that the Prince has

gone).
Fool: They’re off.
Curtain.
x* kk *& *&
ACT IT.

SCENE—The same.

TIME: Two weeks later.
(Enter king and fool.)

King: Hast thou seen the prince,
fool—

Fool: Ay, majesty. He came in last
night on the late train. New Brunswock sent him bootless home.

King: Ah! The rascal’s been playing
strip poker again.

(Enter Prince).

Prince: Noble father, I have returned to your paternal roof.

King: Ay, so methinks.
beep victorious son—

Prince: That have I. I have taken
from King Fredericton his most valued
possession,

King: (with a pleased smile) What
value has it?

Hast thou

Prince: To me she is worth the
whole world.
King: Son, what meanest thou.

‘she’? Is ‘‘she’’ a valuable race horse
or a hunting dog?

Prince: No, royal father. She is
King Fredericton’s daughter. I have
married her for a wife.

King (astounded): Married her?

Prince: Ay, married her.

King: For a wife?

Prince: Ay, fora wife.

King: Son, thou has treasoned against us. Thou has married the daughter
of our dearest enemy.

Prince: King Fredericton
enemy of thine, royal father. Only
two weeks past, he marched at the
head of a parade to Amherst to attend a convention held thereby. The
which was misconstrued that he did
intend the taking of the city. He had
no thought to take the city. When
we, thy son met him, a most royal
welcome did he tender us. “At the
banquet which he did hold in our
honor, we spoke on Gaelic literature,
the which so charmed the princess, his
daughter, that we wooed and won her
soon after.

(Enter Princess Moncton).

Noble father, there stands my wife.

King: What! Ho! Daughter wouldst
thou kiss this beard?

Princess: I will, noble majesty,
though it kill me. (Kisses the king).

King: Royal son, thy wife likes me
well. For thy wedding gift we make
thee Prince of Cape Breton, by which
addition thou shalt henceforth be
known. (To the princess): And as
for thy father, fair daughter-in-law,
we shall send him a New Year’s card,

is no

(Exeunt all.)
Curtain.

THE END.

 

ee a
Charlie Clarke and Duckie Harris! Ort Hewat, Doug. Seeley, Laurie
are still wondering if it was the Leap Hart visited their respective homes

Year spirit which made Del Wallace,
whom they had invited to take a car
drive, suggest a visit to the Cameo,

 

—

for Easter. A great holiday says they.

College activities are through for

Dal is still wondering why Duckie another yeary The prueaies Ore BE s
stepped on the gas and drove quickly | ginning to do some serious work, But

past that popular restaurant.

after all our studies come first.

 

  
 
 
   
  

  

   
  
  
 

   
  
  
  
  

12 Queen St.,

—— ———- —

We congratulate
Dalhousie Universitity
on the completion of their

new Gymnasium

It was our privilege to supply
the Roofing, Insulation and
Sheet Metal work for

this structure

James Donohue Ltd.

   

Halifax, N. x °

  

8 ee _ « -) 5

   

 

Out of the Mo
(McGill Daily).

—— ee

Out of the Mouths—

ee

Jean Harlow, screen star, recently | five fine healthy kittens,

 
 
 

 

ths Personals

The boys of the Phi Delta Theta
House are rejoicing in the arrival of
House Doc
handed a large-sized bouquet to Univer- | tor Lorway officiated and nurse Bill

sity students.
are just grand.
their vitality, and also their teasing
ways,” she quoth, no doubt blushing
coyly as she spoke. It would be very
impertinent to ask what she knows
about it. She has no doubt danced
with a few of them, perhaps spoken
to some of them. And if those she has
met have vitality, and those cute
teasing ways, then, ipso facto, all
college boys have.

One arrives at very queer conclusions
about people and places if the opinions
of celebrities are accepted as true.
They view the world through the
narrow bars of a gilded cage, or from
the rose-coloured windows of a coachand-four.. Famous visitors to Montreal
are shown all which is clean and imposing; Carpets are laid, and tapestries
hung. Students don unaccustomed
gowns when the Governor-General is
welcomed. And so the men and
women in the public eye form their
opinions, often broadcast them, and
the masses hearken with attention.

Yet perhaps the least likely of all
persons to have accurate impressions
are these same notables. Reality is
carefully hidden from them; they are |
as mislead as the usual tourist when
visiting London, who follows the

“T think college boys

 

guide-book faithfully. They know of
reception-rooms and balls, mayors|
and white ties, speeches and rows a
upturned faces, but the actual pulsating life of a nation or community is
screened from their sight. '
Not that we propose to shed tears
over this. They can be as happy and
as useful without knowledge of real
living as they can be with it. But
keeping their position in mind may}
prevent us from being too strongly
influenced by them, outside of their
avowed sphere.. Film stars may tell
us how to act, but, apart from acting,
their beliefs should carry no more
weight than those of the obscure.
_ Agreat name, however, seems to give
importance to any casually expressed
thought. If Bernard Shaw has an
oft-moment and says something ridiculous about something, it is flashed
around the world in a few minutes.
Great optimism is relt if a well-known
scientist declares originally that prosperity is just around the-corner. A
little healthy scepticism regarding the
effusions of our heroes would not be
amiss.

 

 

(and the sailors—but

Inman says all are progressing favour
I like their youth and | ably.

Kay. Morrell, enraged by the injustice
of Dalhousie professors has almost
decided to leave the college, bag and
baggage. Prof. Martin gave Lil Fraser an Aand Prof, Jewitt gave Kay a D
on the very same theme. _

Merrymakers, aghast as guest does
human fly act on girders of Dalhousie
gymnasium, Tuxedo clad figure risks
life and limb at Junior-Senior Prom.”
(Halifax Daily Star), Now. will you
be careful, Cam? ;

my oes ’ : 7

Sunday night, Helena Bishop and
Muriel Langstroth were seen trying
to force an entrance into a garage on
Bedford Road. No details available.

Positively last appearance in
column ot Mr. A. Gordon Cooper.
It must have been his ‘‘staid sober
expression” which made the Sr, F. X.

debaters refer to him as ‘Reverend
Chairman.”

this

A great miany girls love the sea—
Seth Atherton
outdoes them all. Not only is she
interested in the West Indies— ships—
and sailors—but she has lately acquired
a picture of ‘Skipper’ Hawboldt. |

Every time How Kennedy hears a
bell ring now, he jumps. Perhaps this
is one of the ‘conditioned reflexes that
Professor Paige speaks about, said
reflex being established at the recent

meeting of the Choral Society in
Sherriff Hall, ;
——— a,
Don—Well Doug, did you get a

bid to the Delta Gamma?
Doug—Yes, three.
Don—Who were they?
Doug—Well! Er! Ah! I don’t know
the girls’ names,

 

Pearson & Rutledge

| Barristers & Solicitors
HALIFAX

G. FRED PEARSON —

 

 

Carter & Smith,

LIMITED

  
    
   
 
 
 

Electrical

  
  

Contractors

  
 

Repair Work of all
Kinds Done Prom:
ptly Executed

  
    
   
 
   
 
      

     
   
  

business hours

W. J. CARTER, B-1816.
F. E. SMITH, B-4421.

Calls outside

23 Popular Street,
HALIFAX, N.S.
TELEPHONE B-8482.

    
 
  

   
  
   
   
  

  
  
  
  

  
  
  

  
 
  
    

J. E. RUTLEDGE, LL.B

ee —

Pianos,
| Radios,
Victrolas

Small Musical Instruments and Victor
| Records

We invite you to join our
Fiction
Lending Libraay

2 cents per day

LATEST

Magazines,

 

Daily Papers

McDONALD
MUSIC STORE

393 Barrington Street.
Reena ser eee a eee rn a

 

ae The Thermostatically controlled
Steam Heating System
| And all the PLUMBING in the
New Dalhousie Gymnasium

was installed by

POWER BROS., LTD.

LUNENBURG and HALIFAX

 

“We are proud of our job’’

  

The splendid new gymnasium is another link in
the chain of excellent equipment which Dalhousie

University has forged in the interest of education

 

and in adhering to her tradition of service.

 

  

We wish to congratulate the President, the

Board of Governors and all others responsible for
this fine acquisition to the University.

  

The supplying of rough and finish hardware by

our firm is just another instance in which our service

 

plays an important part in the construction and

 

finishing of Nova Scotia’s finest buildings.

 

  

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Ce

a eee eee

 
 

Helen Macki
Injured

In spite of the holiday Shirreff Hall
has been very gloomy for the past
week; on the First Floor there has been
little fun, and every ten minutes someone comes up with the remark, ‘‘Have
you heard how Mackie is today?”
For, as most Dalhousians know by
this time, Helen Mackie was seriously
injured early last Thursday morning
when a car crashed into the taxi in
which she was returning to Shirreff
Hall, after spending the evening with
her sister, Mrs. Graham Allen. The
accident took place at the corner of
South Street and Tower Road, and
after a little delay Helen was taken to
the hospital, where it was found that
she was suffering from a broken collar
bone, a broken rib, a fractured pelvis,
and concussion of the brain. The
concussion was serious but fortunately
there was no fracture and the latest
reports are most encouraging. Her
condition has steadily improved and
on Monday she recognized her sister.

Helen is a popular member of Class
82 and well known for her dramatic
talent. During her three years at Dal
she has been a clever student and
an accident at this time is unfortunate
to say the least. It was a frightful
shock to her many friends to hear o
the near tragedy and there is no doubt
that as she recovers she will be overwhelmed with visitors. In the meantime she has the sincere sympathy of
all Dalhousians, who extend through
the Gazette their best wishes for a
speedy and thorough recovery.

 

Horace 1-37

Boy, I hate the Persian pomp;

I hate those linden-bark devices
And as for roses, holy Moses!

They can’t be had at human prices.

Myrtle is good enough for us;
For thee, the bearer of my flagon;
For me, supine beneath the vine,
Doing my best to get a jag on.

Selected by J. H. K.

 

Library Notice

Until further notice, the
MacDonald Memorial Library
will be open from 7.30 until
11,00 every evening except Sunday. Students are requested
to note the alteration in hours,
and urged to take advantage
of the additional time.

ee OE

 

‘March 31st, 1982

ae eae Sanwa

Unlawfal Bivon

izations

(Continued from page 2a)

ODDS AND ENDS.

Hart fishing on the Egg Pond.

Business, says Atwood is rotten.
Even my store is starting to smell.

George Thompson making plans for
next year’s Millionaire’s Ball.

Clennett is taking Necking 6 under
instruction of Lou Christie,

Freddie Newman obtains an A— ina
theme.

Bobbie McLellan sinks: Baldy Arm?
strong’s fleet.

them from mistreatment. The policy
seems to have been successful. Agitation of every imaginable kind has
found expression, but no harm has ever
resulted.

The greater part of such speakers
are visionaries with impractical notions,
and usually there is no suggestion that
they are able to put their suggestions oT ee
into effect. In any case, the experience |and create symapthy in their cause.
in England has been that ho harm is| Thus we are of the belief that it might

one. If suppression had been exer-|be wiser to let the Communists excised instead, it is probably that those| pound their theories as often and as
convicted would be regarded as martyrs | emphatically as they wish.

 

 

Standard Paving Nova Scotia

Limited

Capital Theatre Office Bldg.
Halifax

“STANDARDITE PAVEMENTS”

E. L. MILES,

Manager

H. W. L. DOANE,

Construction Engineer

Un This news
LIMITED
Radios- Electric Household Helps

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL

389 BARRINGTON STREET
HALIFAX, N. S.

HEAD OFFICE: SAINT JOHN, N. B.

 

McDonald Construction Co.

Limited

 

Feature

a most comprehensive service in modern

construction and have aided in the.......

modernization and upbuilding of the

City of Halifax.

for Dalhousie College which we have

just completed is another addition to....

Halifax, which we feel is another tribute
| to our ability and achievement.

|
The New Gymnasium

  

Wm. Stairs, Son & Morrow Ltd.

- WHOLESALE HARDWARE - PIPE - PUMPS - SHIP CHANDLERY
PLUMBING, STEAMFITTING & CONTRACTORS’ SUPPLIES
MACHINERY - BOILERS - STOKERS - METALS
ELECTRIC TOOLS - ELECTRIC WIRES
DIESEL ENGINES - METERS

   
       
 

 

    
    

HALIFAX, . NOVA SCOTIA

Nova Scotia

  

 
 
  
  

 

 

| fl 118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 
  

* shan’

ie ;
5 Sa 7 /
a ee of te ft
aati Ma oak a ee
. ALA h 30th, 1982,
"4 : eel oer ey
|
v

an unprecedented gusto.

  

   

- are
a a

||

Hill Notes

tov ye The Pepper Box came from the]

press Monday night of last week with
A hit from
the Pope’s encyclical deserves special
mention: “‘Do you play dominoes?”

“No, I don’t play dominoes." ‘‘Then
_ Pax vobiscum.”’

__._ The announcement by Miss Teddy
_ Dorman, in last week's Gazette, of her

_ intention to exclude Pine Hillers from

mae

_ Dutch Dates marks a radical departure

from last year’s procedure. A thou
‘sand sighs!

4 Mal: Taylor's black eye is back to

A >

normal. There was no fight—he mere
ly ran into a milk bottle during a

friendly game of ‘‘catchers” in the
corridor.

: Mac McIver made history last
Friday when he escorted a member

of the fair sex through the austere

halls of Pine Hill. The Pepper Box

- must have left her with the impression

of his room the other night.

that she had blundered into an insane
asylum.

‘Neil Ferguson spent two hours in
a vain attempt to kick down the door
By
that time having exhausted his ap
ropriate vocabulary in describing

Fraser Nicholson, he sat down and

quietly awaited that gentleman's return. The moral, according to Fraser,
igs not to come home too early especially

_ if you have no key.

 

Notice

Tea will be served to the Bad-minton players on Saturday afternoon in the Gymnasium, from 4
to 5.30 o’clock at a charge of 15
cents per person.

Proceeds to the International
Student Service (local).

 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 

  

 
   
 

Portfolios, Trunks
Bags and Luggage of
all kinds and sizes.

<ELLYS, LTD

    
       
    
  
 

    

   

 

     
     
    

  

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours,
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

      
       
     
     
   
  
  
  
  

 

  
 

DONOVAN'S

BEVERAGES

 
 
  
 
  

 

   

|

  

ae

Obsaroer

The

Two well known Pine Hillers wer,
discussing those ‘‘freaks of the species,’
(Hall girls).

Dick—’**‘Ho Hum! This life bores
meso. I must get mea wench. Guess
I'll phone Esther Elliot.”

M. MacM.—*‘She’s a Hall girl, isn’t
she?”

Dick—‘‘Ye gods, No!
girl!” Tut, tut.

She's a nice

We have heard of people getting hot
under the collar, but nary a one where
actual fire burst out. Our renowned
flaming youth, Weldon Harnish, decame a veritable reincarnation of the
“Pillar of Smoke by day’? when in
English his pants caught on fire. No
explanation is offered, but somehow
we seem to remember an old familiar
warning—‘‘Little boys shouldn’t play
with fire.” Just another burning question!

“I feel highly insulted,’’ quoth Prof.
Jewitt on reading the Gazette. “‘I
really don’t see how on earth you gof
along without Prof. Yeo and myselt
to provide the humorous element in
your college rag! How really mirth
provoking.”’

Speaking of elections, we _ hear
rumors of a new Council election.
‘Tis sad to note that in spite of ourselves, Windy City attributes seem
bound to permeate even our school
activities. Good hard plugging, boys!

Raymond McCarthy wishes to deny
the rumor that in the great picture
‘‘The Birth of a Nation” he was the
one who ran for the Doctor.

Yo whom it may concern:

Be it known to all and sundry that
we are no longer responsible for the
debts, actions, cuss words or love
affairs of our beloved side-kicks, Borden and Doug.

Signed. Martha and Flo.

 

Hear the news before it happens.
Apply to Shirreff Hall, Second Floor
Wing.

The official ‘“Te Deum” of Pine Hill
is as follows: :

We eat our peas with honey,
We’ve done it all our life:
It surely does look funny,

« But it keeps them on the knife!

  
    
   
  
 
 
   
 
 

BIRK

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submittei without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

  

A Full Stock
of the

Seasons Best

Our Delivery Service
is all that

You Require

CROOK'S
FISH MARKET
228 Argyle St.

 

 

| HALIFAX, N. S.

PHONE B7259

  

er ee

Artists to Appear|

Mr. Allan Wilkie and Miss HunterWatts who are on a world tour are to
present to the Students of Dalhousie,
readings and scenes from great English
dramatists such as Shakespeare and
Goldsmith. On Wednesday, April 6th
at 12.00 noon these two English artists
will perform in the Varsity Gymnasium.
The admission to Students is 25 cents.
All who can possibly do so, should
attend this performance.

mas

Mr. Wilkie and Miss Hunter-Watts
have gained for themselves an enviable
reputation in Australia and New Zealand and we feel sure that they will
leave with their Canadian audences
a feeling of admiration and of time
wellspent. The opportunities of hearing and seeing Si epepearean plays
properly produced do not occur very
frequently. Every student in the
University who has any interest in
Shakespeare or in any of the other
great dramatists should avail himself
of this inexpensive and highly entertaining chance to hear scenes from
several plays which will appeal to
University men and women.

Most of Mr. Wilkie’s scenes will be
taken from Hamlet which shauld be
of great assistance to flhose Students
who are taking English 1 or 2. This
production has the approval and backing of both President Stanley of Dalhousie and President Moore of King’s,
as well as the English Department of
the University, and those who plan
to attend may rest assured that money
and time will be well spent.

 

Comment

(Continued from page 2)

pronouncement which may break up
party lines. If the issue is dragged
into the conflict in any clear-cut fashion
it may operate to the exclusion of all
others. For that reason some tinkering
with it may be resorted to that public
attention may be diverted from the
infinitely more important question
unemployment and the supply and
distribution of the necessities of life.

Miss Barbara Condon and Miss
Dorothy Redmond are spending a
few days at their homes in Moncton.

Miss Margaret Wood spent last week
end at her home.

 

CHOCOLATES

HOWARDS

LIMITED

  
    

  
  
 
    
  
     

 
    
  
   
  

Wholesale

Grocers

 

  
  

Tea Importers

   

  
   
 

   

SHIP OUTFITTERS

ARMY AND NAVY
CONTRACTORS

 
   

   

   
  
 

    

    

  

(Fhe White Warehouse)

Phone B-8209

  

HALIFAX, N.S.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
   

     

Book Newton

The Unseen Assassins. By Norman
Angell. 349 pp, New York. Harper
& Brothers. $3.00.

In the year 1910, when most of us
who belong to the present generation
were still in our cradles, a brilliant
young man was completing the last
pages of one of the outstanding books
of the twentieth century. The title
of that book was ‘‘The Great I}lusion,”’
and between its covers lay a remarkable demonstration, worked out with
almost mathematical exactitude, that
war was a fundamentally bad investment—from an economic standpoint
its inevitable result was bankruptcy
for both victors and vanquished. The
whole world read the masterful argument, but heeded not. Four years
later Norman Angell’s thesis was
proved conclusively by the advent of
the Great Madness.

Now, at a time of crucial import in
the world’s history, when international
polity andeconomy are in a precarious
condition, Sir Norman, his spirit still
undaunted, speaks to humanity in
another powerful and highly suggestive
book. In many ways, his subject is
the same as before; again, he labours to
bring home to the common man the
suicidal results of war. The author
is far from being an emotional or
sentimental pacifist. He is above all
a cogent thinker. He believes that
war is an idiotic policy for the same
reason that he would call a person
silly if he attempted to ignore the law
of gravity. A militaristic nation is, to
his mind as ultimately doomed as a
man who keeps poking the fire with a
stick of dynamite.

But what are the forces that cause
war? Here Sir Norman plunges right
to the bottom of the matter. Wars
are not initiated by governments, or
politicians, or militarists, or by accident, but by men—the ordinary.
everyday men on the street. Do they
precipitate these conflicts deliberately?
He believes they do not.

‘*The greatest evils which devastate our civilization, and at
times nearly destroy it, are not
due in the main either to the wickedness or the evil intentions of
men....they are due to the failure
to apply to our social relationships, knowledge which is of prac
tical universal possession, often
self-evident in the facts of daily
life. ...We do not desire to create

social evils, impose injustice, and
bring about war, but we apply
policies in which those results are
inherent because we fail to see the
implications of the policies. These
are the Unseen Assassins of our
peace and welfare.”

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

@asaorr 6 waicer. we

HOW the world
would have
enjoyuecL
JENNY LIND
if theyd had
radios like
hose now sold. by

PHINNEY’S

Especially the wonderful]
new
INTERNATIONAL
Short-Long Wave Receiver
Ask for particulars of this
fineinstrument. It is

built by MARCONI
The greatest name in

Radio

    

 

a ee ee

 

 
   

  

ae ae SSS

OF TASTE?

   
  

ear bt,
a

ave , gf .
>) AS 2
Pa EZ

 
 

ba | :
52.8 ae

A
te

Ree
Winchester

CIGARETTES
v

inchester

IGARETTES

Blended Right!

How are we to render these intangible forces visible— Well, Sir Norman believes that the sole hope for
the world lies only in the fundamental
common-sense of human beings. Expert opinion, so-called, must be overridden by the masses. Men must
cease to accept the age-long bunk
about nationalism, and the idea that
any one nation possesses an inalienable
right to sovereignty and independence
at the expense of all the others. ‘‘Again and again this last ten years, we
have seen governments desiring to do
one thing, knowing that it is the best
thing to do, and prevented by popular
feeling from doingit.” In short, the
ill-considered aspirations and  prejudices of the multitude, make war
inevitable. If it is ever to be abolished,
men must give up acting upon theories | terest, and reaches some very thought
whose outcome they cannot forsee, provoking results. Indeed, the whole
even if those theories are expounded! work is thought-provoking. It should
by ‘‘experts,’’ and must follow the | be carefully read by all who are deeply
dictates of common sense. interested in the trend of contemporary

, , .. | thinking on political and social matters

In the last section of his treatise, Sir For ‘‘The Unseen Assassins”’ is assuredNorman applies this principle to many |ly one of those few books, which we
world-problems of contemporary in-| ought to chew and digest.

\ N B

ity at

  
 

uu

Vy
Nyy

   

N\y
NX

Heep TEES Y
SY.

      
  

    

 

Pres. Stanley in
New York

President Stanley has been in New
York for the past few days. He spoke
last Saturday to the Dalhousie Club
ot New York and on Tuesday he spoke
to the Dalhousians in Boston. The
President is expected home about the
end of the week.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dance - 
G.A. McDonald
TOBACCONIST EVERY EVENING
— (Except Saturday)
Smokers Requisites of every A section of the main dining
description room is reserved for daneing

9 to 11.30 p. m.

and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

A complete stock of Domestic |
YOU ARE INVITED
!

21 Spring Garden Road

 

The Green Lantern

 

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Household Science: Teacher’s
and Dietician’s Certificate.

Graduation Diploma.

Halifax Ladies College

Conservatory of Music

Teacher’s Certificate.

Musie in all Branches. 1
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.

MISS E, FLORENCE BLACK WOOD, B.A..,

Principal.

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

WILL SHORTLY MOVE TO THEIR NEW
PREMISES

This is your opportunity to purchase your new spring

“Society Brand’”’
Suit or Topcoat

at a big saving

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

437 BRRINGTON STREET.
—I?t’s the cut of your clothes that counts—

MR. HARRY DEAN,

Director of Conservatory

 

 

       
       
      

 

 

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.
Write or call for Calendar or advice.
F. H. SEXTON, Pres.
| a ng rere
fe ee aia
.

March 30th, 1982

The Voear ie Sport Professors Lose |Track and Field |

To Cubs gate t
BY ROY D. DUCHEMIN, SPORT ee
. Suisctcnin wishing to tryout for the

       

 

 
 

raat ee, im

ee The college term which now nears
its end has been marked by some
advance in the realm of sport, but not
so great as might have been desired,
and perhaps not so great as might
have resulted had the new gymnasium
been completed sooner. In the three

  

 
      
  
        
    
 
   

tte vey seminars as are planned for the
q|coming summer: in rmany, on
‘aim | “Lhe New Social State”: ‘in Poland, on
a “Culture and Education,” and in
FSEY \jtaly, on “The Corporate State.”

_|' These seminars are set up for specially
«| selected students interested in the

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
  

re general a d pas major sports of the year, football,
eetings of 1. S. S. Me. Be haus aiaiie wick ot basketball and hockey, ’ Dalhousie
; the program OF| students, See above, Department ho. | *e2ms, senior and intermediate. have

therings of roups | ’ not been very successful, winning no

   
     
 
    

1, designed sey such a purpose titles in any sport, but have put forth

Hereat Dalhousie, the committee hopes

 

  
 
 
 
 

 
    
    
 
   
   
   
   
     
     
 
     
      

 
  

or ally! +> make a beginning towards that end | #7ong competition.

: and ; . next year.

e pomoy fos s Finally, ‘‘any movement which would Football.

ro , ! oe = be of importance to the student life and

tee ings and to try to over- hich id-hel d duates and|_ In football, the season was not entire= | hee ee Ceres ly satisfactory. Entered in th

ie Such conferences hav graduating students in any practical y ctory. Entered in the senior
ae 4 t three y way deserves the consideration and league with the Wanderers alone, since
oy Non-J effort of Dalhousie. Is I. S. S. such | Acadia had dropped out of the Halifax
a rope 1s _| League, the Tigers failed to win a game,
9S a movement?” That question re
fe 3 3, French and Germans. quires two parts to the answer: first and showed lack of practice in pracee

nned for this year; be-|
ane and English; English
; and students of Balkan
. Last year the ge conwas held in Absnacchumett®:
will be held in Czeschoslov
1. S. S. is considered by all who know
it, to be of importance to student life;
and secondly, it helps in a “practical”
way in so far as the organization of its
“practical” activities in a particular
college i is efficient.

the Reds by one-sided scores which |
about showed the play. The inter-'!
mediates fared little better, losing out
in their section to the Wanderers in- |
termediates, after each team had

 
 

 
 

 
 

  

 

a o saci ie ee uly and the first of LH.R secured a win, a loss, and a tie apiece.
. — August. If any Dalhousians or Kings} — eS The only trip of the year was under| students would find it possible to attend . taken by the senior team late in the

they should make application immed- Badminton season, when the Tigers journeyed to

iately, There is a charge. made, aj
very reasonable one, for board; other) The second round of the girls’ badexpenses are pas by the general| minton tournament has just been
KP igee of I. S. S. ‘‘What value would) finished. Twenty of the original thirty
BS co have for Dalhousians?” | contestants have been eliminated.
_ That could not be estimated i in dollars} Those who have survived the first two

encounters are Lilian Fraser, Kay

Prince Edward Island, where they
defeated the Charlottetown Abegweits
and St. Dunstan’s Cellege. Return
 

Sackville with Mount Allison.

 
    

Basketball.

In basketball, the Dal teams were
handicapped by lack of facilities for
practice, and showed little of the
championship calibre Dalhousie basket
   

tically every game, losing them all to for the term, and tor the first time a

ing the Tigers played a tie game at

Hockey. Final Score 26-17.

The Dal hockey team furnished stiff

opposition for St. Mary’s in the Halitax
city lea
last of t
of winning the title by losing to King’s,

e, but weakened towards the

The Dal Intermediate team proved
e season and lost their chance

too strong for the professors, champions of the Interfaculty league, in a
game played in the new gymnasium
last Thuteday. The game was a bit
rough in spots due to close guarding
and holding by both teams, Ells,
star of the professors, was closely
watched and fouled so he couldn’t get
his shots away. The Prots tock a
lead of seven points in the first ten
minutes but soon lost it due to the
accurate shooting of the Intermediates.
The last period was very fast with both
teams struggling for the lead. Two
minutes before the end found Dal
Intermediates 5 points up. The profs
made a valiant effort to equalize but
two quick baskets before the end by
Bord. Stoddard put the intermediates
9 points up. The final score was 26-17.

The line-up:

Profs: Ells, MacDonald, Kent, Rankin, Stirling and Kennedy.

last place team. The Tigers finished
in second place. The season was
marked by the development of several
young players who displayed promise
for coming years.

Interfaculty Sport.

Interfaculty sport, despite the lack
of a gymnasium, flourished during the
term, and was marked by keen competition in all leagues. The interfaculty managers were fortunate in
securing the use of the St. Mary’s
gymnasium for bowling and basketball

bowling league was formed in which
| practically all faculties were represented. The results of the interfaculty
competion for the term were as follows:

   
   
   
     
 
   
   
  
    

Champions. Dal: Stoddard, B., Thompson, Scott,
O’Brien, MacIntosh, J., Mackintosh

Track and Field.......... Commerce.|R. Stoddard, C., Smofsky, Kough
POGCDAI GY cme ncn cere cee Engineers. | MacDonald, MacDougall:
Bawketialisrs.. cas ads kbs Professors.
BOWS: cone n eee aie ree Medicine. Sols tage gl Vt
Hockey Gacn care cee ee Engineers,

T Florence Keniston seemed to be,

ennis

enjoying herself at the show the other |
night. She was sitting in the front
row enjoying the scene of the natives
of Ceylon running around in their
spring clothes.

    
    
   

 

For the first time in history, tennis
took on an intercollegiate aspect. and
a series of matches between the maritime colleges was staged last fall in
which keen interest was taken and
which resulted in a victory for Dal
 

 

 

Mount Allison

Dal Intercollegiate Track and Field
team, are advised to get in touch with
Col. ‘Stewart, Track manager, or the
Physical Director, immediately, as
several of the track men have commenced training.

GYMNASTICS.

The Dalhousie gymnastic squad meet
every Saturday afternoon at 3.30
p.m. Students interested in apparatus
work are welcome to attend these
classes, work for the beginner as well
as the advanced gymnast.

FENCING.

The fencing club meet every Saturday afternoon at 2.30 for instruction.
Thisis another pastime where beginners
as well as advanced fencers can be
coached during the same period. If
you like action try fencing.

EE

Miss Sheila Winfield entertained the
members of the Kappa Beta Phi
Sorority and Mrs. Hugh P. Bell at a
delightful tea held at her home 100
Oakland Road on Sunday, March 6.

CASINO

Friday and Saturday
April 1-2

““THE UNEXPECTED

 

 

 

Morrell, Annie Evans, E. Nickerson
Anne Olding, Elizabeth Saunderson
"Wed. ee Thur.—March 31-31
. JAMES DUNN

ean Begg, Helen Belyea, Muriel
ucas, Rosie Lyons and Dora Baker.

port os SALLY EILLERS

. : 7 Dy ore ”

ae Fs, “Over The The Hill

The third round is to be played on or
Friday | and ; and Sat. — April 1-2

before Thursday, March 31st. All
Rev “RIDERS OF THE

    
   
   
   
    
 
     

day, April 9th.

  
  
  
 
   

  
 

Special

STUDENT SERVICE

DRY CLEANING

     
    
   

| PRESSING
- PURPLE SAGE” REPAIRING
F with | —We call for and deliver.—
GEORGE O’BRIEN ° e +%
saa Raia: Cousins, Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers

507-11 RobieSt. 381 Barrington St
Telephone Lorne 2323

    
 

reatgs 20c. and 30c.
Pate _ Matinee 25c. ;

 

       
 
 
      
   
   
   
  
    

  

     
   
  
   
 
  
  

AE

Efe pees Be sure and specify this Brand for--fig = Perce sf PERFECT SATISFACTION AND ENJOYMENT

i —
Manufactured under the most sanitary
| conditions at the

HARRIS ABATTOIR co.
| PLANT, HALIFAX, N.S.

SOLD AT ALL DEALERS

 

      

——= :

‘ Men’ s and Young cee s

gaoug Blue Suits
A Leading Value Anywhere At

$25. 00

EATONIA value proves
that being well dressed is not
a matter of cost! These suits,
in snappy breasted
models for men and young

men, tailored from an all wool |
botany serge, are sure to
please the most particular
dressers at a comparatively
small outlay. See this popular EATON line in our....
Men’s Wear Department on

- your next visit. to the store

  

 

 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
  

single

matches must be finished before Satur
 

    
  

        
    
  
  
   

     
  

 

   
 

  

  

 

|
|
|

housie over Acadia.

ball teams have been wont to display
and U.N. B., by a wide margin.

in past years. In the senior league
the Tigers finished in second place,
deteating every team in the league
except the Wanderers, who won the
championship easily. Among the intermediates, the Cubs, expected to be
strong contenders for the title, dis
Boxing.
In the field of boxing, Dalhousie
took an active part in the maritime
tournament, and sent the largest
appointed, and finished in last place,|contingent to Antigonish, where the
though winning two games, one over | tourney was staged this year. Though
the league leaders, St, John’s, and the|St. F. X. made a clean sweep of all
other over King’s. The Cubs made |the events on the card, the Dal fighters
a trip to Wolfville where they played | put up the best showing, and provided
an exhibition game with Acadia, losing | the hardest kind of competition.
out in overtime, An exhibition game The four boxers sent by Dalhousie to
was played in the new gym with King’s|the tourney were Glorioso, Arab,
resulted in a victory for the Cubs. Magonet and Hewat.

Sodales Debate | Wrestling

Tourney

 

 

(Continued from page 1.)

answered satisfactorily. Mr. McCarthy in his rebuttal closed the debate
in a good natured manner, with references to League authorities to prove
his points. The whole debate was of
the highest order, both negative and
affirmative sides using a clear, logical
expression, free trom any manner of
thetorical flourish.

The judges of the debate were Mr.
Justice Ross, Reverend Brother Cornelia and Mr, Justice Paton. The
decision rendered by these gentlemen
was a neutral one. This is one of the
first debates to be held at Dalhousie
to result in a tie and the decision drew
many expressions of surprise from the
audience.

The visiting team, the judges and
student organization officials were
present at a supper at the Nova Scotian
following the debate. Much credit
should go to the Sodales executive for
the excellent manner in which the
evening’s program was carried out,

The first Wrestling Tournament
ever to occur at Dal will be held
Thursday at 12 sharp in the small gym.

The bouts will be two3 min. rounds.
The fights are as follows:—

M. Claener vs. S, Rosenberg—Welter..
H. Magonet vs. F. Smith—Lightheavy.
P. Magonet vs. M. Brown—Lightheavy
W. Goodman vs. S. Scott—Middle.
L. Reinhardt vs. M. Puritz—Heavy.
Mackasy vs. Davis—Welter.

It is understood that wrestling bouts
will be put on the next Intercollegiate
Boxing Card. Here’s a chance for
wrestlers to get credit tor themselves.

All who want to see some fun come
out Thursday.

Going Home In May

 

  

Several months of hard study behind, the

exams over....looking forward to a happy re
union with old friends, saying goodbye to new
.yet not goodbye....

As you shake hands. don’t forget to say val" lI
call you: by Long Distance once in a while.”
It’s the modern way of saying ‘“‘I’ll drop you a
line’... . but it’s much more warm and personal.

And while you’re thinking about it, why not
put through a call tonight to those back home.
It will be a month before you see them, and it
paves the way to many a good time.

  

The rates are substantially reduced after
8.30 p.m. Refer to the Telephone Directory or
call Long Distance Operator.

MARITIME TELEGRAPH AND
TELEPHONE COMPANY LTD.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 

    

    
     
   

  

  
 
   
     
    

  

     
      
    
          
   
   
 
       
       
    
      
   
      
    
  
   
   

WINNERS FROMTHE FATHER”

 

With
For 60 years the REACH Trade SLIM SUMMEKV
Mark on Sporting Goods has been eae

a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game

 

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
April 4-5r6

“HONOUR OF THE
FAMILY”’

Starring
BEBE DANIELS

with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 
  

   
  

Sincerity

 

According to Confucius, Sincerity
is the way to Heaven.

Earth.

Neither Business or Friendship can

prosper without it.

Being in the heart of the city would
not avail this store if its heart were not

in the ri zht place.

 

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy, Homes”
448-450 Barrington St.

Halifax, - - = Canada.

It is certainly one way to peace on

la

i

—_—

a

 

 
