a eS

     

 

P be: - 5 ant rs wie = a “a Fae ts >» Ulee ULluod ays |
Te iG ee Se

 

A
ee
he oe boa gas niet
“9, * ven oO, a
x, de a
3 ne: [Ae
7A Ge ce

 
  
   
 

  
 
 

7 raphe °
Pee er, 5 -- * . : ose
_ Happy Feet, a Moaning Saxaphone,

a Nervous Bride, and a Drip Song
: ist combined last Thursday evening the final Pre Christmas Perromance of the Glee Club. Nelson
all was packed full of collegians,
attering co-eds, sophisticated Senjabbering Juniors, sighing Sophs

- al ting Freshmen. Altogether
ug. th ce was very gentlemanly
a

  

   

  

  
    
 
 

   
 
  

though there were several Engineers

ieee ©

    

    
  
   

al = Sammy) osenburg let go his flapping
a - feat to the ptrains.of ‘‘*Massa’s in the
Ly ld Cold Ground,” played by John

 
  
   

= Morrison, Speaking to Mr. Rosenor. @ bur after the performance, the Gaz
  

# ette Representative was astounded to
hear that this particular dance was
yx derived by a young man who had a
. very close friend, who was in turn a
very close friend of a second cousin of

 
 

4

  

  

i if
ai

   

.

- spent his summer working on the pick
and shovel gang on the new Trans.
@ Arizona Railroad, and while in the
¢ -territory had visited several Indian
Tribes. One evening he did so when

y were celebrating their Annual

~ “y=

 

 
  
 

_ to put it briefly the old Red Skins were
a coking hey-dey and then some. Mr.
_ X. let us cal! him, went home horizonvase tal and dreamt a dream, as most
horizontal people do. Sammy’s dance
' @an be traced back to that dream.
| ~=6Good stuff Sammy.
- Freddie McLellan then made a
. vicious attack on his Sax. Shades of
4 Saint James Infirmary. ‘‘Low croon
re

 
 

  

    

rood

aM =o make _you squirm, soft smooth blues.”
ya = Somehow or other the notes just seem
F to ooze out

  

num ber, one 1 ks_ of
yom Siamese Temple Di

SID

 

—_o

very

me ay ae e Presi ent of the Club
t get in touch with the Editor, at
Eh fers possible moment.

_ “Brides Beware,’’ and in your choice
_ of servants, don’t let the fate of Mr.
» and Mrs. Dorrington overtake you
fF And what a fate, in the form of seven
“wf 6 wrangling domestics, one utterly bored,
“ another peacefully silent, a stout fussy
Me. cook, a howling maid, a forgetful
chauffeur, a man hater, and an Odd
Man. Poor* Mrs. Dorrington! Our
F sympathies were with you, in fact they
ye still are if its. any consolation. A
“aa Sleepy Critic waking at regular periods
mi throughout the play, tried valiantly

“fa «to connect, ‘wrong numbers, wash

  

 

ws buckets, slush movies, screeching wo
. meén, baseball scores and typhoons.’

‘What a job.

; ‘Those who stayed awake and read
. their programmes at all found that

(Continued on page 4.)

   

   
  

   
    

al Archivestiwhose article
ears in this,issue. |

“

rear

a “ - - =_ rs _ ‘
l i a oe -. e"L.. ey ~
mM i “ iY J / 4 i
‘a P 7" , i. Pee ae = —
oe ¥ a =: = - ‘ i ie
— 7 7
7 i a tea ‘
_s i 5 , i. a

= of the

i
+

< C Ma
“ + :

§ ss
ae Sey
7 S sl

  
  

i Cm

rge House}

       
         
         
 
        
     
   
  
    
   
   
         
      
        
     
       
         
         
       
         
     
    
     
    
   
   
    
 
     
    
  
   
     
   
 
  
 
 
  
  

& Al Jolson. This young chap had]

_ Prohibition Remembrance Day, and|

_ ing saxophones, muted trumpets that

of that man. How do you}
ddie? Closing ones eyes,) —

  
 
   
   

soon after

 

he Snappy Start

. ”
is, b x !
F : ,
git api ‘ : F i 3
7

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

     
     

Engineering Notes

>

a

We have in our midst as prominent
Engineers two Scotts: Sanford Scott
and ‘‘Great Scott” alias O. L. Smith

 

The Engineers plan a bigger and
better Boilermakers Ball on Jan. 15th
An executive meeting, with this in
mind, will be held Tuesday at noon
It is rumoured that several prominent
Engineers have their women already
dated.

Innes M. Fraser recently spent a
week end at his home in New Glasgoy

The record for endurance at the
telephone goes to Mr. James Taylor.
Jim we hear talked (listened) for 1
hour and 30 minutes beating Coolie
Harries record by 5 minutes. Boys
you no longer need wonder, why the
phone at the Hall is so busy.

The Engineers Bowling team under
the capable management of Lindy
Rood was successful in defeating Arts
and Science by 76 pins. Charles Bacon
rolling the high score of 805. Good
work Charlie.

+
~

i’ a

27

    
   
 
  
  
     
     
   

Biv ocrrocns acme mc macme tact cen eae es

on

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA;. DECEMBER 2nd, 1981.

 

Freshmen Victorious

_ In Sodales Debate

 

“Women will become independent
if they are- granted the same wages as
men, for doing the same work,” was
an argument advanced by the Sophomores at Sodales on Friday evening,
November 27th. “They are independent now,’’ was the reply of Mr.
Edward Arab, speaking for the Freshmen. The resolution under debate
was—'' Resolved that women doing the
same work should not receive the same
wages as men.” In opposing the
resolution the Freshmen, represented
by Miss Beth Atherton and Mr. Arab,
won the unanimous decision of the
judges over the Sophomores represented by Miss Margaret Sadler and Mr.
Paynter McIntosh. This was the
first debate of the year in the annual
Bennett Shield series. It was of
particular interest and value in that
practically all the speakers were new
to Sodales. There was little or no
formal attempt to interpret the resolution, but the speeches indicated a
variance in the interpretation.

Mr. McIntosh in opening the discussion, maintained that taking women
as a class there is no profession in

ee eee eee cme c cn nme

The Dalhousie Gasette

Wishes all

Q Suceesstul Hew Vear

 

O. r. C. Notes

A well-attendéd parade was held on
Wednesday. It was announced that
musketry practice would commence
shortly. at the Armouries. This is a
feature of the course which will be
pleasing to all members of the unit.
Brigadier Constantine spoke briefly
to the students and commended them
on the interest which has been shown
in the work. During his speech he
made a statement which will be of
particular interest to those who are
opposed to this organization: ‘‘] sincerely hope and trust.’’ he said, ‘‘that
none of you will ever have to use the
military knowledge which you acquire
here,”’

which they are as capable as men.
No one would trust women doctors.
A survey of the teaching profession in
United States, showed that they were
not as well educated as the male teachers. As for physical exertion, how long
could a woman stand digging ditchesAs clerks they are unreliable and spend
too much time in amusing goodlooking
men customers. Women are fickle,
timid, and undependable in emergencies
The speaker left the impression that
women were of little use in the business

and professional world. He forgot Sar
few of the weaknesses of the so-called] THE DALHOUSIE SYMPHONY
gentler sex, ORCHESTRA.

Mr. Arab characterized the resolution as absurd, It adyocated an The Symphony Orchestra held the
unfair and impractical _principle.| second meeting of the ycar.on Wed
The standard of living of women] nesday last at the Munrce Room. li

was as high as that of men, so the
the argument, that they, like foreign
labour, would: necessarily keep wages
low was invalid. A lower wage for
women will result in their being preferred to men unless the latter accept
the lower wage also. Only by keeping

is hoped that’ all those who play a
musical instrument will turn our to the
meetings. If any wish to do so please
hand in your names to Murray Ryan.

There will be no more meetings
until after the New Year wken work
will begin immediately for presentation at the opening of the new Gym
(Continued on page 4° :
nasium.

 

its readers

ristmas and

WN GQ © =

  

 

Sherriff Hall News

Miss. Dorothy Vernon was visiting in
Truro for a few days this week.

Miss Joan March of New Glasgow,
N. S., was visiting her sister Betty
March at Shirreff Hall,

Molly Freeze has been playing the
good Samaritan by feeding the starving Hallers. Imagine turning the library into a cafeteria. The crunching
of cookies disturbed the peace of that
most peaceful of all places, until some
of the students actually got up and
left. And our Molly with a big box
of cookies was the cause.

And it seems that at about eleven
thirty the other night, Jimmy MacIntosh and Don Mahon were seated
in a roadster below the window of
a corner room at the Hall talking
to some of the girls, when Ralph Ellis
and Gladys Jost drove up. A few
minutes later a voice in a very rebuking
tone said, ‘‘Now boys, don’t you think
it’s time for you to be goning home.”

“Miss MacKeen!"’ gasped Jimmy,
and two seconds later the car was out
of sight. Don't worry boys, since ‘it
was only Gladys Jost, it will be quite
safe to return to the Hall after Christmas.

 

We would advise a couple of freshettes to see that the blinds are pulled
down when they are bidding fond
farewell to their ‘millionaire friends.

 

The Public Archives
Of Nova Scotia

By D. C. HARVEY, Archivest

 

Students of history in Nova Scotia
and the students of Dalhousie and
King’s in particular may not know how
fortunate they are in having within
easy reach the new Chase building for
housing the public archives of the
Province; for, prior to the erection of
this building, though steps had been
taken to preserve our archives, nothing
had been done to make them known or
accessible to students; and there was
danger that even the work of preservation, which had been inspired by
Joseph Howe and carried on by T. B.
Akins, would have been rendered futile,
if not altogether forgotten.

_To few other undergraduates is it
given to be able to see, handle, and
use the actual materials from which
historical narrative and interpretation
are made. Though some may learn,
by the use of printed documents in
European, British, American or Canadian history, that narrative and critical
historians have gone to source material
for much of their manner and matter,
the student body as a whole does not
discover till some time after graduation,
if at all, that our real historians, whether Hebrew, Greek, Roman or Modern,
were not divinely inspired but have

ei all

s

  
 

 

   
 

”

+
La

 

THE ANNUAL

BOILERMAKERS

Lectures
On Crisis

While severely censuring some capitalistic methods, Dr. Clarence MacKinnon, in a speech delivered last
Sunday afternoon in the Y. M. C. A.
roundly condemned the communistic
that have survived of public institutions | Coie of modern Russia. “"Bring the
ane of public iner:. apitalists to Church was the remedy

But, now, since our archives have | suggested by the Principal of Pine Hill
beenpreserved by both the foresight and | '®! the present economic crisis. Al
inertia of our ancestors, and have been | though he admitted that in some
housed in a spacious: dry, and fireproof | *esPects the Soviet administration had
building, and are readily accessible brought about real reform, the speaker
to all who possess that intellectual | ¥** of the opinion that the price paid
curiosity which distinguishes civilized for that reform was too high, and that
man from those happy people who have | 2°€ of the advantages gained would

discovered facts and have arrived at
conclusions only after careful and extended research amongst the records

no history, we in Nova Scotia may re-|Co™Pensate the Russian people for
discover the sources of Haliburton. the ore cane the Huerty they! bad
Murdoch and Campbell, amplify their sacrificed:

range, check and modify their con-| . After attacking the principles of

Communism, Dr. MacKinnon criticised
some aspects of captialism, especially
the cupidity that led financial magnates to rate personal gain above the
integrity and morality of the nation.
He particularly condemned in the
motion picture industry the sacrifice
of decency to the obtaining of large
box-office receipts. Bringing the capitalists to the Churches, Catholic and
Protestant, and inculcating intothem
the teachings of Christ was the remedy
put forward by Dr. MacKinnon for
the correction of the present day unrest
and depression. ;

clusions, and at the same time may recapture the enthusiastic spirit while
improving the defective methods of our
pioneer historians.

Though far from complete out records are impressive and il.uminating;
for, in this little province, which Howe
wished to make the normal school of
allthe British North American colonies,
every problem that beset our people
in every colony was first met and ultimately solved. Here exploration, the
fur-trade and the fisheries first began.

(Continued on page 4.)

 

 

 

    
 
   

 

 

a LLL

| the first haif was confined to Engineers’

 

re  —

 

Nova Scotian

 

Deadlock In Interfaculty Football

]
]

League Championship
Awaiting D. A. A. C.

Decision

Whether or not the championship of
the inter-Faculty Rugby League has
been settled is the question that is
bothering Engineers and Law, as the
result of their three-game series in
which Engineers won the first game,
and tied the remaining two. Coming
after the closest championship series
ever staged, in which only three points
were scored in the three games, and
that from a penalty kick which Menzie
sent over the bar, the argument began
at the conclusion of the third game,
and waxed fast and furious over the
weekend. The teams both agreed to
play a three-game series, the best two
out of three to decide the championship,
and Law contends that Engineers have
only won one game, and need to register
another victory before they can claim
the title. Engineers, on the other hand
declare that points should decide the
issue, and on that basis, would have
four points to Law's two.

The sports editor takes no sides in
the matter, however, and until the
two teams reach an agreement, or until
some tribunal decides the issue, will
proceed to report the last two games
played. The first game of the championship series- was won by Engineers
by a score of 3 to nil.

The second game was staged at
Studley last Wednesday afternooon, the
teams battling to a scoreless draw in
an exciting tussle, with the Engineers
having an edge.. Fine tackling by
Law saved many an impending score
in the first half, and in the second they
played on more even terms, but neither
could register a score. A feature of the
game was the large number of penalties
handed out, Law being the greater
offender, drawing 24, while Engineers
were penalized four times. Christie,
Scott, and Dickie turned in a fine game
for the tripod men, while Law’s bright
lights were Coleman and Mathewson

The third game of the series, played
at Studley- last Friday, was pérhaps
the most exciting battle of the series,
with Law having a big margin in the
first- half, and the Engineers forcing
the play in the final session. Engineers
were forced to touch for safety time
and again in the first half to prevent
Law from going over for a try. Law
nearly scored when Cowan made a
fine attempt to send a penalty kick
over the goal. Most of the play in

 

twenty-yard line, and frequently Law
forced the play to within a bare yard
of the Engineers goal line. Engineers
showed a complete reversal of form in
the second half, however and although
not having as big an edge as the Lawyers had in the first half, kept the
play in Law territory for practically
the entire half, and frequently came
near scoring, their half line making
several fine runs. The scrums were
fairly evenly matched, heeling the ball
out an equal number of times. Few
penalties were imposed by _ referee
(Continued on page 4.)

MURRAY M. RANKIN

     
     
    

   

 
 
          
           
        
  
 

Permanent Secretary

 
    
 
    

Hotel
   
 
     
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
  
      
  
 
  
   
  
     
   
  
    
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
      
 
   
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
     
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
    
 
  
     
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 

Managing Editors:
2 The tourist ind i of
UPC De Beare ro Borstal

 

mean

Ber aice a Procaee: wea et

portance in 3 vince, and late

notice extensive. jubilation that}

- | the 1931 season has seen an increa

ah ox ourist. entry’ to Nova Scotia, hard}

. times to the contrary notwithstanding.
Because of its size it is no doubt onl
roper that the tourist industry shoul

be treated with respect. Certainly it,

carries a dollar and. cents aipamens

that cannot be gainsaid especially in

and seek to acquire more,

lay claim to his attention,

satisfaction when we get him here.

8 5ON, 781 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.
Y And so, enticing

ing on one of our natural resources.

  

: Nios VCE ag Sha sivrld sirides apace into the festive season|orowth of the tourist trade
ac Yuletide, the time of the year, when, if ever, thoughts Pomipiees matte obit
es of “peaceon earth, good will toward men ,” ought to be upper
most in ali our hearts. Within a few weeks, the age-long

* cee will pass "iwixt friend and friend. Merry

mas! How cheerily it rings out under the frosty sky!  Merry|to their vaction attractions using the

as! What a dust of 0; f happiness tt fortelis lo the bright- ante pers ; eee ‘ ne padevering

‘ , and ‘what a nite sparet of good-fellowship tt brings to their | the inference that as yet enough tour
a round the inh 8g Rea Of O Saetan. the (ae Ne BO arrived to “spoil” them.

te The tourist, as a type, has been anai eae! none are haloed with a brighter crown of sympathy and forgiveYuletide.

thematized so freely and. frequently

ey ne 4 that we do not fee! moved to attempt
0 nee me Or for many thousands of folk, the dawn of Christmas Day
Merry Christmas! How hollowly

a condemnation of him.
pe will be dark, cold, and cheerless.

increasing
think it rather sig
two regions in these Provinces allude

rite and poverty!
2g men and women who cannot find the wherewithal to make a
ying; the victims of our Machine Age, condemned by Fate to a desolate
te: ce of pain and hunger and toil. Or is it Fate? Say rather
victor selfishness of mankind, the lack of a humanitarian spirit | which we respect.
brotherly love. Yes, far, far have we strayed from the teaching of
Ha mee birthday we shall soon’ celebrate with pious phrases?
should be gene ae Why can they not be realities.

presence.

us by his behaviour, presumably

He is apt to de
serve him. . His means, and his holiday

 

sideration.

‘

eee

Fresh trouble in India.
The. Indian

_~ Perha : na Patents a exhibits more clearly the shortcomings
t cture-sy . in vogue at our universities, than the wellg wntversal practice of taking notes.
ems to fall into the old tradition quite naturally, and before long
comes a suffering slave to the noxious habit. Glance at almost
y class during the daily session, and observe the painstaking
SS1du ty with ich the students copy down the professor’s words |ference. After a lengthy se8sion, some-wisdo Or, listen to the instructor actually dictating notes, a poet by other events in the
eas many of them unfortunately do) whilst his perspiring auditors fe wae wihoue ie ie prmersesice
ae vainly strive to keep the last sentence within range, Does this| Ghandi is about to return for a connot seem a rather deplorable state of affairs? Is it not a sterile/tinuation of his civil disobedience
 proceedi ig, subversive of real education? campaign. Nationalist riotshave broken
; To our mind, the practice of note-taking, and the often con- nae ee ee oe ae aes
| eat custom of professorial dictation, are singularly useless| Government proposes to se stern
ae -y. Asa matter of fact, they are really atavisms | measures.
: ) ating back to Stabe of the mediaeval universities, In those ica ort ee ae pie a
ak iat ava e‘ text was in the hands of the lecturer, | NOR SO la een et
*-_who expounded its contents to his eager band of students; and ates ites rouperecle: ao nee

that any solution seems hopeless

an a to Ones a knowledge in some accessible form, wrote! whatever view is taken of the British

ver’ administration of India, which cerona es ce which is being nearly drowned in a sea of tainly has not been overladen with
‘ printers ink, te a ‘system is plainly ludicrous. There is no sub
on any eens

altruism, it is difficult to see what can

ruculum, for which at least. one reliable
Asa rule, half a dozen could be found |I£ the British were to evacuate im
the current practice of the lecture room, political dissention within, and haris quite probable that some other

be done except by a gradual transition
tI of power to, the Indians themselves
e.

: mediately nothing but chads could
ye ficacious purpose. If only for this LEaBOR, result, Torn by religious, racial, and
a See of significance. | rassed by the ever-yigilant hordes of
dae thefact of its uselessness, how-|the North from without, a people
iat erm itself. could do little ‘to preserve
i est Batista Si cy ee

y é
, the person busy writing must necessarily miss it.| power would segk to step in. Lastly

situation has agait

in a world sore beset.

 
  
 

  

British

commercial

y intent upon “getting down’ every senir but lose the spontaneity of the spoken
jent’s critical faculty is dulled because

y, the stude tuality.
ately < app
ce. Thirdly, note-taking plays havoc
s handwriting and good penmanship
yrare, Inthe fourth place, class-room
fully arranged or thought out, as the
a: er’ irrelevant ideas, loosely comies. of expression, mar them. And the
com pee arate ee of any subject
owl the constant obligation
= iod one ‘of great drudgery. In
1 <0. his lecture sessions as opporv knowledge, or to discuss freely

. A slumb’ring child awoke to taste

sonar ds them with dull
The nectar of the gods’ delight-—

y a few of | the more Eee objections to the| Love was born.
| du abi The —
ated if the habit of transcribing | ¢
bs fot. ers lecture-room Wet aa ‘extated it’s. sien chalice,

g the’ ?| The slumb’rin ‘ed .
eee ean 5 ata S Sowa cl mit ae

future.
= lp

ILLUSION.

A bird took win
A bud burst fort
A ray of sunshine fai eerneed bright,

A feathery nest;

  

    
   
 
     
         
     

ra ons with arrow iaread Makcaatt

at |
ne tegetne a
once wits life, a corpse all

  

ge tema”

Cir mae aes

¢ that would

view of the present condition of other
industrial pursuits in the Province.
We should therefore strive to hold
what we already have of the trade,
We must
angle for the lucrative tourist in
competition with other regions which
We must
display our peculiar scenic and climatic
charms andjwe must cater to his

by advertisement
and attempting to please by the actuality, we attract more tourists, make
further conquests for the glory of the
industry, and fill our coffers by realis
ar Yet it is difficult to look upon this
3 with
We fail to be
enthused over the prospect of an ever
deluge of tourists. We
ificant that at least

But he does
seem to be something very often difficult to put up with, and as suc h regard
Se must re-echo im their ears; what a bitter mockery of their ed as a nuisance by all who do not

It is a sad, sad sight, this multitude of strug-|detive. some pecuniary gain from his
Sometimes he rather offends

different to: that which he displays at
home, or by his attitude towards things

mand a. service that smacks of bowing
and scraping on the part of those who

attitude towards spending it, come to

; to host is somehow relegated to the
; | background i in this business of dealing
‘ ; : : with visitors in the. mass—for a con
Each newcomer to college | come to the forefront asa major crisis
The country

ad somewhat subsided while Ghandi
went to London and the great problem
was tackled in the Round Table Con
|, and it becomes more than usually | their present stand and Britain is forced | (etrac tive

to ‘ma lausible ideas which might not|into coercive measures it is difficult contribute
tan nc , & : to see anything® but gloom in the}ment of a Glee

THE

| ” PASSING BLOW

| B hoe youd BBcoksipcker?

 

_ Say It With Ink.
Glee Club.

Are you a Booksnooker?

Last year an organization interested
in the improvement of library service
condiicted an extensive contest to
bring about the coinage of a new word
adequately describe a

‘who continually borrowed books
and failed to return thenr.. The result
of this contest is the word ‘‘booksneaf.”’
“Booksneaf’’ connotes laziness, carelessness, lack of courtesy,-and if not
dishonesty, at least criminal negligence,

formed a real service for all
patronizers but we
did not go farther.

library

There is j

trol he r

of the practices of the beoksneaf nevertheless incur a large measure of con.
demnation.

keeps those books longer
rules allow and consideration, if he
had any, for his fellow students would
permit. Some weeks ago we had oc
casion to contemn this custom at the
Memorial Library and to congratulate
the Librarians on the measures they
had taken to eliminate it. Apparently
this criticism struck responsive chords
in the hearts of other than Studley
students, for. we have subsequently
been impressed with the fact that the
practise is not confined to the sphere
of the undergraduate but is to be found
flourishing within the precincts of the
Forrest Building itself. Asan appellation for this aggravating type of antl
social imbecile we suggest a modificz
tion of the coinage, booksneaf, int
‘hooksnooker.”” A booksneaf is es
sentially careless; a
essentially unscrupulous; the former
is a thoughtless procrastinator, the
latter is a wilful cheat. The booksnooker seeks to monopolize where
he ought to share,and does not hesitate
to infringe upon the rights of others to
gain an advantage for himself. He is

more tmsidious than a thief because

Sa a ry wh ) ever 1n min His gentle loving- kindness, when wath ste worshipped by these who ente rtain Ee Beet ay s nN Bie
. “Me yr im. He becomes something to be|PFOYOsIms than an mivect vecause ®
erry Christmas! g Be eat 129
- ul hearts, Wwe cry: y fleeced, albeit discreetly, The noble is not susceptible'to Fla,
OT ae 1a? " relationship of host to guest and guest

Say It With Ink.
Although the Sttidents’
al, not as many

Here

as we would like to see.

  
   
 
   
 
 
  
      
    
    

reactions before they
Forum. We. want ~ criticism;
thing we think ought to be criticised,
and we want to be criticised in turn,
“Letters to the Editor’’ should be
given to a member of the staff not
later than Friday, or else mailed directly to Wm. Macnab & Sen, Printers, on
Bedford Row. All such letters must
be signed.
not be printed unless he so desires
but will be kept secret by those iunmediately concerned in publishing the
letter.
in criticism of any article or editorial
appearing in the Gazette will only
be printe d it the next issue following
and in no other issue. This will prevent the continuance of ddntroversies afte r they have lost: sore ‘est,

Last week we were dt With |
letters about th tc Ck a oe che |
appreciate thee fiorts and interest of the
authors and regret we were forced to
omit the letters for fear Of cevcaen
Out the discussion too Jong. Tl inally, don’t write too much if one fetter.
No letter should ‘be longer than five
hundred words.

Glee Club.

Last Thursday night in the Navy
league Theatre, the inadequacy ol
one piano to supply music for dancing
was demonstrated once again and the

there is the matter of an. immense|%t@g line, persisted, as usual in utilizing,
utterest Which | Unnecessary,
would suffer disaster in either even that should h; ave been available to the
If the Nationalists maintain| dancers. Lhe

a large area ol the floor

elimination of these
factors would, we believe,
a great deal to the enjoy
Club program. In
view of the. fact that Glee Club will
in the near future be housed in the
new gymnasium any such’ criticism
may appear rather superfluous, but
we think that the majority of Glee
Club goers will agree that these drawbacks are not’ peculiar to the Navy
League Building, but prevailed in the
old gymnasium and are likely to prevail in the new unless precautions are
taken to correct them.

This year the Glee Club bas laboured
under heavy handicaps but the officers
have come through bravely. ‘Their
efforts have entailed no little sacrifice
of time and interests, and they deserve
a large measure of praise.

If we might be permitted a comment
on the type of entertainment provided
we would putin a plea for more plays
of Little Theatre vintage—nothing so
difficult and psychic as the insanity
Scene from Eugene O'Neill that a past
Glee Club failed to interpret but something like The Valiant, The Moon
\ shiners and Two Gentlemen of Soho, that

were given so good a reception in other
Glee Club days. Without absolute
neglect of the home talent shows, we

| would like to see more emphasis placed

on plays of the above nature.

We believe that this organization perregret that they

type of library pest whose depre dations
while not falling to the criminal level

This is- the type who
takes from the library books that are
much in demand by many students and
than. the

7 , *
booksnooker is

Forums has
been to some extent taken advantage
letters. expressive ol
public opinion have reached the Gazette
and
there an editorial or an article: has| 2" Was suggested who amongst other
drawn fire but the majority or students,
if stimulated at all, hdve inhibited their
reached the
every
[Lhe name of the writer will |

 

_ FROM OUR»
CONTEMPORARIES

al a

The Law of Getting Ahead.

College Politics.
A Christian Socialist.

ne i ee eee ees

The Law of Getting Ahead.

The failure of our modern universities to teach the irrevocable Law of
Getting Ahead is the theme of a columnist in the Varsity, (U..of T.). The
true scholar is as helpless in the arena
of lite as a Christian martyr before the
lions in the arenas of old Rome. In
the schools ‘children are taught the
imperts and exports of Afghanistan,
the chief battles of ths re ign ar Edward
the Second, and the conjugation of
nolo and vale. But the poor creatures
are taught nothing of the deceitful
heartol man. Why spend years learning the uses of the subjunctive mood
when a short talk on the uglinesses of
party politics might rescue us from the

inevitable disillusionment of futile
idealism? The purest type of idealist
is the greatest failure. The realist
is the only one who can “get ahead”
in the world to-day. That masterpiece of autobiography the Education
of Henry Adams proves the point

admirably. A typical quotation from
him: 'Exeep it for two mistakes the
earth welch have been a success, One
of these errors was the inclination of
the eclitic; the other was the differentiation of sexes,”

College Politics.

Collegiate elections at Queen's tint
versity are evidently carried on’ with
an enthusiasm which contfasts strong.

ly with ne lackadaisic: i] fashion of

elect TT erin y¥ at Dalhousie Two parties, Meds 3-Scie neé and Arts- Theology
hose candidates who Save publie
addresses to the students: Between
the Spece hes ral the CWO parties + d ihit it i<
was enjoyed by the audience. Medsscjence \ IROrTOQust campaigne | with

prolusion’ of handbills: the other
party responded with painted sjens
and used.a car for udivertising slogans.
However, when the deay old Prexy
SaW the Arts Building plastered with
bandbill S und the aicler walks painted
with slogans there was:a rift in the lute
or something of that sort.. He ordered

all traces of the campaign removed
and threa itened to annul the elections
The Queen’s Journal blanied the work
on a misguided few and exptessed
dlarmy that there should be such “an
element at college, A campus police
things would guard against
of this nature,

A Christian Socialist.
Professor John
dre Sse ‘cl a

Line recently ad

group of University of Tor
onto stude nts in which he e xpounded
is Socialistic ideas, of interest particular ly in that they are applied to the
problems which Canada is facing today. For some time Professor Line
| Bas been more or less-in the public
eve of Toronto throug hy his radical

methods of
SOC iabism.’

‘Christian
ell known soap
prese oe r Mises
On the

Again, letters in reply to or: bex of reformers he hag argued his case

horse] li ay

 

PORTRAITS
AND

CARICATURES

MARGARET MARY SADLER.

Marg is not very well known about
the campus, in fact her best friends
often call her Violet,. which really
suits her better than her own name,
on account of her sweet modest
character, As oné grows to know her
and her true nature shyly reveals
itself as a leaf in spring, one ts amazed
at the unfathomed depths thus disclosad.. One finds a true woman,
supremely interested in all that pertains to the home. She is a lover of
fine. music, regarding with disdain this
trashy, modern jazz. “Take your
saxaphones and clarinets and give me
the old-fashioned fiddle.” said Vi one
day te a group of her intimates. She
also takes keen interest in literature;
she loves her liooks, both of them, and
declares that L. M. Montgomery is
her. favorite: -.duthoress. Marg was
studying to be a medical missionary,
but heing a member of the S. P. C. A.
she have up the idea after three days
in the Biology 1 lab. She thinks Med.
students are just too brutal for words.
Marg, while her appearance is not.
striking, is always immaculate, never
a hair out of place; she never goes out
that is dué to the fact that she has just
never had the breaks. Why, many a
worthy young man would simply love
to take her to the Pine Hill ‘At Home.”
Never mind, Marg, we’re.with you,
one for all, all for one.

re i en
SRA TERNTT XY NEWS.
On Wednesday evening, Nov. 25, the

Alpha Eta € hapter of Phi Rho Sioma
held an informal party at their Chapter

House on Spring Garden Road. Miss
Coolen supplied music that was. all
that could be desired. About 11.30
delightful refreshments were ‘served
to the twenty-five couples present.

The credit for such a successful party
Yeddie MacLellan, The Henmembers graced the dance with
as chaperones,

SNES CO |
Orary
theit presence
OL LL et test

before the unemployed and others in
the streets at various times, -Older
students will remember that Professor
Liné was on the staff of Pine *Hill
Divinity Hall three years ago, The
socialising of organisation of production is areal problem in Canada tonday;
he stated. “The conimunity must con~
trol in some way large companies now
controNed by a small group of people.
Where there is any possibility of
manipulation, exploitation, and. secret
dishonesty, the industry should: ultimately be owned and controlled by
the communi ity. This could only be
brought about by education and le gislation. Socialistic ideas are new in
Canada because measures of this sort

have not been needed before. Now
the unemployment situation is as
serious in Canada as in any other
‘ountry an the world. - Whatever one
may think of such a program it is
certainly an indication of the inovement of thought of our time when
men of this type feel the need of -a
change in our social scheme.

 

«: Shanes Mens Wear Shop

ANNOUNCE
A Special 20°, Discount

Off All Overcoats

For Ten Days Only

Due to the extraordinarily mild weather conditions we find ourselves slightly over stocked

and so we are offering

these coats at greatly

reduced prices for a limited period only...
There are lots of beautiful coats to choose from
and every coat carries the SHANE guarantee

of satisfaciion.

DONT FAIL TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS
EXCEPTIONAL OPPORTUNITY,

CS ee em a

Shanes Mens Wear

50 Spring SHOP Garden pa.

Discount of ten per cent. to Students

 

 

 

ee

 

 
 
  
   

a Wa
Dae awa we alg

2S 6 ew i pe és ew

a4 oh Of ida) eG wer pn @ ow

ack .
ye Nee 21/] Badminton... .......: 129.85

   
  
  
 
 
      
   

¥ 5 Interfaculty Sport..... 212, 67
pe Labi ae A ara
yhoo ee aay ; y (1929-30). >. -: ax
ld Account 233.31 ack (1929-30)... -.. 2.30
3alance due Pe (1929-30)... 38.10
& 7 ‘264d. 15
Eee 800, 00 Glee Club.
aces ALT OT

  

ese | GatOra ene eh eae) 468.66

Sh Se ee Bed OO PORNO pple eviews 00
ae itemen Paaunetted by, Choral Society. ...... 48.65

pet . James A. Muir, Sane oar ee 0.00
a y-Treas., Council of the Students:

  

120.
Salary, Prope per 45.00
Otescnsine (1929-30), 24.07
© Aadited grat found Correct, —+—— - 718.38
es M. MacDonald,

Die, N.S. Shee 7. 1931.

COUNCIL OF STUDENTS,
-HOUSIE UNIVERSITY

sta EMENT oeriate

  

Gazette.

Advancesby Council, .1119. 50
Outstanding (1929-30), 38.66

mich 15R, 26
DCA. ;
'Basketball........... 317.96

  

EXPENDITURES
a Ground Hockey ...... 45.90
cee 1930-1931. Ice Hockey. ......... 125.30

i

z ee i eee 16
Balance Sept. 16, 1931. .... $270.95

Delta Gama.

 
 

 

    
  
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
   

 

 

Receipts. GPAMCTAL 2 Free iad «aie x's 3 250. 00
Girls’ Debating. ...... 56.10
 . Council of the Students. =.= 306. 10
ae Sodales.
Piss its Fees (Dai.).. 8225.00
=u Student Fees (King s).. 357.14 Geidvat ses hs wes 158. 92
ze Bank Interest.....2; -. a Imperial Debate... ... 117.50
ee ate i 8600. 64 mt of Nations RaLad
ae E WeEtiNne. oor ct oh 30: 0€
ee is, : an y i 52S 30649
me. ~Rootball: ..... ...0-.. 946.60 Cash in Bank, Sept. 30,
> meatballs ea ~ «0 . 106.65 Rees daa Ute eS aiearxca's>. <ROk GA 453.21
a) baie SG Fic ee eee 114.30 —
er ———— 1167. 55 $10114. 63
> ¥ — Glee Club. =
£ Gazette. Statement Submitted by,
| James A. Muir,
BS Refund 1929-30 Funds: ..,... 38.98 Secy-Treas. Council of Students. |
enh Di Gi A, C: Audited and found correct,
b> ; James M. MacDonald.
e Delta Gamma. Halifax, N.S... Nov. 7, 1931.
oe Girls’ Dehating:..........-=.. 36.51
| ATHLETIC FIELD ACCOUNT
i - Sodales.
h 4 In Account with
6 Total Receipts. .. .$10114. 63
a . . -——— Dalhousie University
J\. es eanaks ene Credit Balance, Sept.
| eres ; MRR 360.40
coe Expenditiires, 1930§ Panis eet Utne Be 1 ONES RH
“Saadene Cowell Dance$114.78 y 50% Net Footby bs per eee Se 100.00 ballReceipts,...,. 202.89
ee es & . Dues. . 102.10 Balance due to UniverNi: ae U.S Mee 5A 40 sity, Sept. 30, 1931 .. 233.31
ay ‘Coiference) wae ¢ 512.00 $796. 603796. 60
3st Book (1930 Out- } i oe
Mer etanding. ....).....5 200.00 Statement submitted by,

‘ink Nights. . . 270.00 James A. Muir, _
~Gazette (1929  out- Secy-Treas. Council of Students.
es Phe ccdses era 501.29 Audited and found correct:
et to University James M. MacDonald.
cs AE eee ae 0 Halifax, N.S., Nov. 7, 1931,

I ; ‘ 2038.45

 

Mr. John A. Y, MacDonald and
a Pine Hill Notes Big Nick certainly pulled a nifty in the

Cameo the other night: This combination is in a fair way to put the
island part of the Province on the
Social Map.

 

9 doubt the continued fine weather
punts for the many strolls Clarence
holson and John A. Y. MacDonald
e been induilein in lately. Walk1 pis such a delightful exercise, you

ow, and nature so beautiful at this
cular season of the year.

 

  
   
 

  
 
   
    
   

 
  
   
   
 
     
 
     
 
   
  
    
 
       
    
 
 
  
 
    

Pretty pass bs es
have come to,

lady, you calle
your ‘peau pe ead

 

    
  
  

ar’s billiard-cue artists, Sayre,
2, iBank and Hicksmet defeat
ae of the Pine Hill team [ast
_a 300 point game. The past
fa did their best under the cir_ but Tommy House, im
Parsons, Dannie MacKenzi pee Gordon Fraser showed

1e 1 phir i . new tricks to win by a

   
 

  

  

oie mits of the second floor
5 ae ee be peel

a mi might. Percy
ae 2 Howse, scorning the
, method of entrance, were
* to get into their room
OU he panels of the door. No,
weren't peti they were perfectly
jie that in attemptin
; grel that Clayten Olfor
| uncerem y thrust. into their
the tad ‘accidentally locked

 
 

  

 
 
  
 

  
 
 
 
 
 

Bul rather dear
we dance over there,
His folks gob a.”

"radio from
PHINNEY’S

and its one of those wonderful new.... ;

| MARCONI |
INTERNATIONAL

Short - Long Wave Receivers
Better get one Dad at

 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   

  
 

   
 
 
 

sou of the

t wait to see the fun out but
nd that the boys got back
t dres ~cl for brea ast.

  

 
    

  
 
 
 
  
 
 

  
  
     
     
       
       
   
         
   
  
 
    

| OBSERVER’S |
| Column

ies,"

 
    
  
  
  
 

Doc Macdonald,
“borrowed” shoes,

Fox, called up and
shoes be returned
wag to inform him
offence, and that

about it.

}hundred frogs in a

went accompanied

Bill Fay, aroused

distress.

The Hallers have a new form o

diversion, , namely
percentage purity.

ed it. There are ten rec asked,
each “‘No” counting 10%. Statistics

show 20% to 90%

girls. If you h appen to know any of

the inmates of the

‘The Gazette certainly has~edueational value. Last week Observer saw
three persons looking up ‘‘phallic
glorification” and “occumercial attraction” in the Oxford Concise Dictionary. They had been reading Tommie Goudge's ” editorial on the “‘Mov
a

Art Ormiston has given up practical
jokes for good and all.. Last week

party;and Art impersonating Detective

Liaw School hid in the stacks.

in the light. John came and fon.

uttered loud whoops when the frogs
escaped all over the corridor. Even

came to aid the suppose -d maiden in

  

Endorse Dutch Dates.

— ae

 
     
   
 

   
    
  
 

 
  
     
  
   
  
  
 

pins, and male students have bee

pressing tradition.
Students, from the days of Marti
wearing a pair of
went out to a
ment bills. Every date was a telling

demanded that the| blow at the exchequer , every, time h

2
ee

The Student Forum

A Column devoted to Commient and Controversy

 

ad

no exception to this financially de

n

Luther to our noted Walter MacKenmie, have had to foot the entertain
&

&

immediately. The} gtaced a member of the fair sex with

an- officer of the law was a criminal|¢ty. Will the average co-ed walk t

joke seemed to “take,” but somewhat his prese nce he had to pay for it.

later thereal Detective Fox called up the Would ye old Victorian ladies walk?
s

}

if such actions Ooc- a show Or take the street cart No!

curred again—mere would be heard “Bigger and better taxis” is their wail

And socially ostracized is that venturesome male who dares call at the

Why a professor and the dean of the} Ma!! with anything legs than a Buick.
: li he suggests patronizing the Street

Curiosity and the croaking of a Railway he is politely snubbed, and

smiall crate incited | if he is so rash as to insinuate that they

by the dean who
students met last week and decide

to adopt. the policy of American anc

by the screams,
2 rage. Desirous of getting studen
t

determining their

following:
Kay Morriel start- S

go Dutch" with a bey to a movie if he
purity among the

"Ts Mabe intim: itely, SS SS SS et | ss 2 SE

they might tell you what the ten

questions aie.

Mr, DuBilier, from Jersey City,
appeared in Chem.
as follows—Pale b
lacking, no coat, no vest, bright blue
braces adorned with white circles, and

a shining. ~ oileloth
even.a “‘Sweatah,”

Ed. MacLeave

study group to discuss “The Intrinsic

Value of Religion.”
will be held, next

tunately only members of the. Law

School are eligible

General Basketball Practise

 

WHY NOT SPEAK FRENCH?

When it is so easy to learn
rapidly not only how to read
and write but also to understand and SPEAK it like a
native. Like modern travelling, up-to-date methods are
easier, quicker, and efficient.
Hundreds of schools, thousands of. persons all over the
world use canned “language
courses. With it/you learn
quietly athome inyourspare
moments. If at allinterested
write « for information to
Linguaphone, Box 83, Antigonieh, = N. S., without any
engagement whatsoever on
your part.

Il: lecture attired
lue shirt. with tie

apron, No—not
Shades of Archie!

has orgapized a

The first meeting
week, but bs

for membership.

 

St. Mary’s Gymnasium

Wed. 4.00 p.m.

 

EVERYBODY OUT

 

Sat. 3.30 p.m.

In The Evening

For. evening refreshment,
choose The Green Lantern.

All foods, drinks and Ice

G. A. McDonald Cream are the best quality

TOBACCONIST

and moderately priced.

Smokers Requisites of every The Green Lantern

description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES

and TOBACCOS Our High Quality Standard
—— makes our Low Price
21 Spring Garden Road DoublyjAttractive

McDonald

   
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
      
 
 
      
   

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS,

Small Musical Instruments é
and Victor Records
We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library
mee Pe day Tip Top Tailors

393 Barrington Street.

Fall Society Brand

You foe en greater value for your dollar in Society
Brand Clothes than in any other make we know of

_ Winter-Burns, Ltd.

Bonen oe the cut of your st Mat counis—

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

MADE TO MEASURE

M A THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
usic Co. TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

-- The New ~«

styles are advanced, correct and
distinguished. The woolens are
rich, strong and exclusive. The
workmanship isthe last word in
quality and expertness, and includes exclusive tailoring features
like the SNUG-EASE SHOULDER
and the VAC BLOC ARMHOLE

   
  

439 BARRINGTON hee

Teddy Dorman: “Of course I woulc

 

the dean to intercept with a hammer use ‘Nature's Own” transportation,
and a chisel. ‘Oh, John, come see,’ he is quelled by a look that would have

Se

“No longer shall this pitiful state of
affairs exist!!! A vast army of male

1
|

other Canadian Universities. where,
owing to the depression, economy
dances and ‘‘dutch”’ dates are all the

t

opinion, your seribe was assigned this
job by the Gazette. We submit the

phoned and asked me. The inequality
of our present system, despite tradi-|

 

 

         
  
    

 

|

Se SE

] Pious Comment

 

 
   
 
 

  

Nov. 30th, 1981,
To the Editor of the
Dalhonsie Gazette.
Dear Sir:—
In your issue of last week a con
tion, is atrocious: I would admire a
boy who -would be brave enough to
do that.” Here's vour chance, boys!
don’t rush.

The worm has turned! No longer] py61 Connor: Holy Cripes! I think} tributor referred to me as Polar Pie
will the male species.suffer the mining} iv, a darn fine idea! The male stuoperations of the female) sex in their) dent has too long been the goat. But,|4 resentment of the reference, but
search for Midas’ gold. . Since Adam's } «¢ course, I wouldn't do it, tradition rather to present a few figures that

time man has been the financial goat" is too deeply steeped in the marrow | May. interest your readers, and subof his better or worse?) half; he has

Supplied the wherewithal for everything from new fur coats to bobby

Atwood. It is not my wish to voice

lef my bones to allow me to ask a|Stantiate its aptness.
girl to do “‘Dutch’’ treat. -L want to] . Last year the patrons of Dalhousie
be like the rest of the goats.” Store consumed 20,334 Polar Pies. If
Barb Condon: “Certainly not! If|these were placed end to end, they
a boy doesn't care enough for my would form a continuous line equal
company to pay for it, he can stay|to a good walk before breakfast—
home. Why should I worry? I have|almost one mile and a half long. If
lots of bids.” : they were all made in one pie its weight
W.. C. MacKenzie: “I think it’s would be 1906 pounds,

absurd. I would not debase my As I| said in the beginning I do not
pride and dignity to ask a girl to go|resent being called Polar Pie Atwood.
“Duteh.” Ridiculous! Impossible! | However, there is one thing I wish

Scandalous! distinct ly understood with all due
Mary Lee; “Sure thing. My phone|respect to Lester and his associates,
No.is B9T46." I do not aspire to membership in The
Prof. Page: ‘‘Too late reporter, you}OQld Foundation Moustache Club,
should have started this idea two years] Ipse dixi.
ago,”’
Prof. Stewart: “Dinna ye ken that
ahm nae sae sprightly, but it warms
the eockles of me ’eart!”’

Very truly yours,

P. P. ATWOOD.

 

 

    

At by et a sf rE
Oe aoe : *

Om

\
A
(>)

iS

 

 

| No OVA S SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING. COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.
Write Or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 

 

Leather Goods YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours

Two travel for same as one,
KELLYS, LTD More than two, 20 cents extra.

Covers up to six.
118 GRANVILLE STREET.

/ Fraternity Pins and Class

’ Jewellry depend largely on the

skill and experience of the

e maker for that smartness so
desired.

Portfolios, Trunks
Bags and Luggage of

all kinds and sizes.

 

 

 

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without

fllons, |="
eck Henry Birks & Sons

CHOCOLATES DIAMOND MERCHANTS
| Halifax, N. * ;

—|

  

 
    
   

oy

Foster, ‘ks,
Smith, Lebrun,
Do

  

i?

 

Coleman, Me
Mathewson,

ugall.

 

Archives

(Continued from page 1)

Here the British colonial system was
first applied to a people of a different

tradition. Here representative government and British legal] institutions were
first organi Here sible selfgovernment was frst achieved, Here
the hrst ettorts to influence and control
imperial! and foreign relations were
first made, Here, too, the frst newspaper was published, the frst untversity tounded, and the first literary
and nistorical movement launched.

it toliows, theretore, that our records,
in so tar as they have survived, are the
most comprehensive of the nine provinces of Canada, the most romantic
ot ail save (uevec, and the most illu
inating trom the point of view both
ot national and of international relations. Further, it must not be forgotten that in studying properly the
compiete history ot Nova Scotia one 1s
studying the paralie) relations of all
the -Griuish North American colonies,
and that this study involves at every
staye of our journey friendly or unfriendly relations with the thirteen
original American colonies and with
the iater United States.

Our records, then comprise: State
Papers, private collections, newspapers,
and pictures, Among the state papers
are tound the correspondence of our
governors with the governors of Quebec,
Louisbourg, and the New England
colonies, with the Imperial administrators and the governors-general of
Canada; the minutes of the Executive
Council; the journals of the Legislative
Assembly and the Legislative Council;
petitions to the Executive Council and
to the Legislature; resolutions thereon;
records ot land granting, escheat and
sale; records of imports and exports;
of mines and mining; of education;
litigation, of birth, marriage, and
death; of canals, railways, transportation and communication; of telegraphic
and postal services; and of all the
manitold activities of organized society.

Among private collections are papers
of general interest as well as the more

personal terial that, at least, is
a ecrestina: to individual families, and,

‘at most, is typical of human endeavour,
Here are fund diaries, letters and
accounts, skeletons of the heroic past
as well as flesh-covered, full-blooded
narratives of moving incident by land
and sea, As yet, the most notable
of these are the papers of Rev. Jacob

. Bailey, whose diaries and letters have

been quoted by every serious historian
of Loyalist life and literature; and the
papers of John Young, who, as Agricola,
contributed so much to the improvement of agriculture, while founding a
distinguished family in the new Scotland of his adoption. Other private
collections are being gathered in; and,
before many years have elapsed, sufficient material will have been assembled
to enable future biographers to clothe
with flesh and blood the barbarous
skeletons of those who hitherto have
been exhibited as notable British
Americans,

In addition to these manuscripts

ublic and private, we have more or
ess complete files of several newspapers. So far the prize number of
our collection is the Acadian Recorder,
1813-1930. These early papers, having
been printed on the more durable rag
paper, are less perishable than the
modern newspaper; and because they
deal with periods in which our other
records have been, in part, injured or
destroyed, they are of great value to
research students, both as a check upon
doubtful accounts and as an illuminating commentary upon obscure or
dilapidated documents.

One further type of collection in our
archives consists of portraits or photographs of historical men and paintings
of landscape or historical scenes. This
collection is far from complete; but
garnered to enable

att aT aa.”

Basketball teams were held on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons.

material,
ep as the exams are so near at|by members of the
_| will be started later on,

A. Mc}

Mr. MacLean
Indisposed

 
   

Practices

Practices for the firet and second

 

It is with sincere regret that we learn
of the sudden illness of Mr. MacLean,manager of the Macnab Printing
Co.; who will be forced to remainaway

_ Managers expressed themselvés | from business for a few weeks. While
as being pleased with the number his condition is mot serious, it
turning out and the amount of neW/| necessitates a month’s stay in the

Mac
felt, especially
azette staff; for
it was only through his unfailing
courtesy and hearty cooperation that
the past issues of the Gazette have
been so successful. All his friends
join usin wishing him a speedy recovery

Sodales Debate

(Continued from page 1.)

Hospital, The absence of Mr.

There will be no games before|[ ean will be serious!

nd: however a league for beginners

 

Glee Club

(Continued from page 1)

Mr. and Mrs. Dorrington were played
by Mr. W. A. Reed and Miss Laura
Marshall, All the envious females
in the audience couldn't help but fall| their wages equal will men have an
for those beautiful pyjammas of Mrs.| equal chance,

Dorrington’s and the male bridge} Miss Margaret Sadler supported
players felt a sort of fraternal sympathy | the resolution on three counts. Firstfor the bruised shins of the Master|ly, if women get equal wages with men,
after the second attack on the pail. | they will become independent. Mar
To Miss Ruth Crandall must go the| riage would be postponed and divorces
praise, for even the Sleepy Critic, if| would increase. Women would be
only awakened by the telephone bel]l,| the masters and men _ would be the
had to admit that the part of the| slaves. Secondly, having been used
Parlour Maid was admirably played.|to the frivolities and luxuries which
It was the best performance of the|their own salary gave them when
evening, and if the writer had found| single, they would be discontented
a bouquet he would have heaved it on| with the wage their husbands could
the stage. One of the difficulties that | provide. Unhappiness and the break
the Sleepy Critic came across was to| up of the home would result. Thirdly,
find out whether Miss Crandall was|they would lost their respect for men
supposed to be a Parlour Maid or a|if they got the same wages. This too,
Telephone Operator. But who cares| would lead to the nations decline.
about that, Maid or Operator, the| Woman's place is in the home, and her
part was well played. That voice} wages are the love and admiration of
certainly didn’t sound very Montreal- her family.
ish. Miss Beth Atherton, contended

Dorothy Redmond, and Edythe|that women are efficient in the proNelson went through the entire show|fessions. They get positions as teachhand in hand, the Plump Cookie and|ers, and keep them. The proof of
the obedient side-kick, A rumour ran|their ability in business is evidenced
around the gallery that the Cook was/in that they continue to be engaged
on an 18 day diet, and stood up for|in it. They show a keener interest
10 minutes after every dose or orange |in business than men do, because it is
juice; this accounting for the bitter|mew to them. Just as men have
tongue with which she lashed the other | others depending on them, so do womservants. Baldy, ‘“‘Parcheesi’’ Arm-|en have fathers and mothers, whom
strong was enquiring who her cousin | the son has deserted to get married,
was. Baldy! Baldy! depending on them.

The Business Manager of the Glee| Mr. Arab in rebuttal said the way
Club made a slight typographical error |to remedy the pathetic scene of the
when he put on the programme ‘Useful | unemployed men, as pictured by the
Maid........ Margaret Sadler,” This | Sophomores, was to make the wages
should have read “Weeping Willow|equal and so prevent women from
peecape: Margaret Sadler,” Those heart | taking the positions from men.
rending shrieks, and soul ripping howls} Mr. McIntosh in reply to arguportrayed life in one of its louder | ments advanced by the Freshmen said
moments, but they served to rather|that men had higher ambitions than
terrify the old Sleepy Critic. teaching. If men were dependent on

Marry Duggan was very definite | women, it was because the women had
in her expression of dislike for the | forced them out of jobs.

“sex that pays.” It seemed rather} Other speakers included Mr. Archiunusual for a House Maid to have| bald, who contended that if wages of
such pronounced views of disfavour | women were higher, more women would
for G Coopers, So and So Movies/want to take jobs, and so glut the
and Drip Songs. Even Jimmie Gray | market.

said that it was an unusual occurrence.) Mr. Howse thought men who say
And he knows. , _ |that women are anxious to marry, haye
: Detective Fox of the Halifax Police | a superiority complex. Men have
is out hunting for a grey chauffeurs! made a mess of the world’s business,
uniform, stolen from Government} so it might be a good idea to allow
House on Wednesday evening last.| women a bigger place in it,

Anyone having any information that) Mr. Spry inquired what women had
will lead to its recovery would do well|been great business leaders, skilful
to keep his trap shut. In the mean-/doctors, leading lawyers, or great
time someone ought to warn Higgins. | admirals and generals!

Our dear old Friend the Sleepy Critic} Mr, Raymond McCarthy replied
seemed pleased to hear that Higgins|that Joan of Arc was a great woman
resigned and went back to his Baseball} general. On the whole, he thought,

 

 

 
 
  
  

games........ to Mabel (The one that} women were as efficient as men.

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

sent the telegram). Oh, Oh.

It seemed odd that the Odd Man
should turn up at such odd moments,
but then it was an odd play. The
part played by Mr. Irving Pink. Mr.
‘G-a-l-e, think of wind’ made the
Sleepy Critic think of Typhoon, snow
storm, polar bears, ice, frigidaires, ice
cubes, cocktails, and a small Martini,
Thus runs the mind of a critic.

GARRICK

NEXT WEEK

Mon-Tues

“WATERLOO
BRIDGE”

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bidg. Halifax, N.S.

 

 
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
    
    
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
  

 

  
  
 

   
 
  

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

     
  
 
 
        

 
   

We have a Slide Rule in
stock that adds, substracts,

    
    
    
    
  
   

    
     
    
   
  
  

tiers Oe te and multiplies. We believe
KENT DOUGLASS this accomplishment will inWed-Thurs. terest most students, and we

know the price will interest
all as it sells at only $1.25.

SAX ROHMER’S
DAUGHTER OF
THE DRAGON

—with—
WARNER OLAND
ANNA MAY WONG
Eve 20-30 - Mat. 25

 
  
  
  

  
  
    
 
 

Special for Saturdays. Until further notice we will sell
6 of any Sc. articles in the
store for 25c.

   
   
  

   
   

  
 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

    
     
        

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

aS

Bowling League

Students watching the game between
Medicine and Law on Saturday, saw
gome splendid bowling, when several
high scores were rolled by both teams,
D. MacRae, Meds. making 114, 122, 98
total $29 the high score of the day.
R. MacDonald, Law was second with
108, 91, 114, for a total of 310. A.
Douglass and Murray Fraser, of Meds
also made over the century mark in
single strings.

Law. ls. 2nd. 3rd. Total
Hicks . 86 80 81 247
LeBrun...... Be 76" 72 281
R. MacDonald.. 108 91 116 310
C, Stewart.... 8] 84. 92 2657
Grand Tota! 1045
Medicine.
A. Douglas..... 7 114 81 269
F. M. Fraser... 89 106 73 268
D. MaeRae.... 114 93 122 329
Grand Total 1126
League Standing.
Sec. A. Won. Lost. Pts
Medicine........ 2 0) 4
Engineers... ..... 1 l 6
Cr ae, ay ie ois l l 3
Arts & Science.... 0) 2 2

Section. B. includes Commerce,
tistry, Freshmen and -Theology,
likely get under way this week.

ON eee

Footballand Fat

oases

Whatever the outcome of Football as
football this year, there exists not a
particle of doubt that in respect to good
feeling, cooperation, and business like
management among the team, the
manager and the Students’ Council,
this football season has been an outstanding success. For bringing about
this fortunate state of affairs no small
share of the credit goes to Fat MacKenzie, who as manager of the team
has been untiring and unstinting in
his efforts. Labouring under all the
disadvantages attendant upon the
inception of a new accounting system,
W. C. has brought the season to a
satisfactory financial close, Uniforms,
too, have been checked in with the
utmost dispatch.
Fat,

Congratulations,

General Basketball Practice
St. Mary’s Gymnasium
Wed. 4.00 p. m. Sat.3.30p. m.
EVERYBODY OUT

 

 

All that is Refined
in Men's Clothing is Yours
with the Fashion-Craft
Label

 

FEE LENA

of confidence a man
enjoys — and inspires
in others too — when
his clothes are distinctively correct in style,
quality and fit!

You are assured of
this — and also utmost
value at whatever price
n—

FASHION-@RAFT,
CLOTHES

pea HO

Fall Accessories

Sox Hats
Gloves Spats

Colwell

Brothers
Limited
HALIFAX

:
. ‘
a eet eet ie SSS

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

f

U.K. C. NOTES

 

Over 70 guests attended the Alumni
banquet staged last Thursday evening
in the Halifax Hotel, and which was
presided over by Archdeacon Vroom
as toastmaster. The banquet was
held in honor of the King’s football
team, champions of the Halifax Intermediate League for the second year in
succession, and was an unqualified
success. In addition to many. of the
King's students, many of the Alumni
with their wives, attended. High
tributes were paid to the team by
Archdeacon Vroom in proposing the
toast to the players, and by Archbishop
Worrell, Primate of Canada. The
toast was responded to by Henry
Muggah, Captain of the team, and by
James Martell, manager, who both
took occasion to urge upon the King’
College authorities the necessity of
building a practice field for the players,
who had the limited use of the Studley
field for the past few seasons. Tribute
was also paid to the work of the coach,
Bob Schwartz, by Mr. Martell, and
by the Senior Student, John Andrew,
to which Mr. Schwartz, who was present with his wife, made fitting response.

Basketball practices are being held
regularly by the King’s squad, and
prospects are that the King’s team this
year will be considerably stronger than
last year’s. Vic Regan, captain of the
team, who was unable to play last year
owing to illness, is back with the team,
as well as most of last vear’s regulars.
Among the candidates who -turned
out for recent practices are: Glenn
Smith, Henry Muggah, Bob Dorman,
Len Tilley, Fred Moore, Charlie Tapley, Professor Kent, and Allan Findlay.

The final meeting of the Haliburton
Ciub until next term was held Saturday
evening in the Haliburton Room, with
a record number in attendance. The
meeting took the form of an Old Boys’
Night, many former graduates being
present and taking part in the evening's
proceedings. Professor C. L. Bennett,
President of the Haliburton Club, pre
sided.
FROM THE

WINNERS FRom Ti

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has-been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game

with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

December 2nd, 12

— Spee erent cnet aap tedinaeeeetiaenentineneeataieaneannated

Bulletin

BADMINTON AND HANDBALL.

the St.
follows,

The badminton hours at
Mary’s Gymnasium are as

Monday afternoon 2 until 6 P. M.
Evening 7 to 8 P. M.
Wednesday afternoon 2 until 4 P. M.

Evening 7 to 8 P. M.
Friday evening 4.30 to 8 P. M.

BOXING AND WRESTLING.

The boxers and wrestlers meet every
Wednesday and Friday evening at
8 P. M. for instruction and practice.
Students wishing instruction in either
of the above mentioned sports, should
attend these classes.

GYMNASTIC SQUAD

The Dalhousie Gymnastic Squad
are showing splendid form at practice
and no doubt will be seen in exhibition
work at the opening of our New Gymnasium next Term.

Students interested in gymnastics,
tumbling, ete., are requested to turn
out for practice on Mon. evening 8
P. M. and Sat. afternoon at 2.30 P. M.

BOWLING PRACTICE.

Students wishing practice in bowling
will find the alleys open during the
following periods:
Monday, 2 until 6 p. m.
Wednesday, 2 until 6 p. m
Friday, 4.15 until 11 p. m.
Saturday, 2 until 6 p. m.

7 to ll p. m.
7 to ll p.m

 

    

  

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
December 3-4-5

“THE RULING
VOICE *’

WITH
W alter Huston
Loretta Young

David Manners
Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
Dec. 7-8-9

Richard Barthelmess

“The Last Flight”

 
         
       
     

 

 

 

9 to 12 p. m.

SUPPER DANCE

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
HARRY COCHRANE’S ORCHESTRA

Cover Charge $1.00

 

)
Service A la Carte

 

 

 

New Arrivals in

, and
Bithdati
Overcoats

|

Quelity—-Style—Value!

Three Important Points!
Warm Comfortable and good-looking overcoats of blue chinchilla,
blue and grey melton cloths, beaver
cloths and brown and grey herringbone tweeds...Tailored in Guards
style, single and double breasied
chesterfields, box back coats and
town ulsters...Every coat is well
tailored, lined with a heavy rayon
material..,.Both groups made to
rigid EATON specifications.

Sizes 35 to 46 in the group.

&aionia

 

 
