 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 12th, 1981.

No. 4

 

 

 

| Valinble Scholarships OF_ fered By Anonymous Donor

tl Se

~

 

      
   
  
 

‘>

i.

    
  
   

 

Male Students in Claasics
and Mathematics to
be Assisted

President Stanley has announced four
notable scholarships offered by Dalhousie University, They are open to
boys who have attended any school in
the Maritime Provinces or Newfourdland, and who have completed Grade
XII or equivalent work in a creditable
manner. Two of the scholarships,
one of $€00, and one of $400, are awarded in Classics, which means Greek as
well as Latin; and two scholarships
of the same amounts are given in Mathematics. The winners of these scholarships are to proceed to a four years
Honours Course at Dalhousie University, in the departments of Classics
and Mathematics respectively, and are
to receive the money in fcur equal
annual instalments .

These scholarships have a four-fold
object. In the first place they provide
something like a ‘free place” in the
University for a few boys who could
not otherwise atterd. (Fresident Stanley points out that scholarship erdowments in Canadian universities have
‘not nearly kept pace with the increasing
costs of education). In the second

lace they make sure of afew hoys who

ave been so trained in upper schoo!
work that they can. profit by a genuine
university course in severely intellectualstudies. Again, they callattention
to studies of fundamental importance
which at present are more and more
“neglected. Finally, it is hoped that
some of these scholars will presently
return to the secondary schools as

 

teachers, In the teaching of. such a
_ difficult subject as Mathematics, it is

ble that the instructor shall have
€ leagues and leagues farther
ject than his pupils. This

  

eacher following a §& al ad anced
course in Mathematics in the Univer
aN whos): board which secured such

a scholar as a teacher,” added President
Stanley, “would be like a farmer who
had deliberately and carefully selected
a prize animal to improve the flock.”
A donor, who wishes to be anonymous, has made these scholarships
possible for the next four years.

(Continued on page 4°

 

Parliamentary

: Debate

Do you approve of the unemployment relief work that has been instituted by the present Government?

Sedales Debating Society is offering | housie

in the Munro Rood next Thursday
night a program of entertainment and
‘instruction In departure from the
usual forensic mode this debate will
imitate Parliamentary procedure. Mr.
Donald Finlayson whose _ stentorial
voice has made the Cape Breton Welkin
resound with Liberal slogans will lead
his party in a sweeping condemnation
of the methods being applied to the
unemployment relief. Mr. Donald
Grant scion of Pictonian Conservation
will uphold the Government.
The Resolution is—

_. *Resolved that this house is of the
opinion that the unemployment relief

_ program of the present Government is

not in the best interests of the Country”

Everybody will be given an oppor
tunity to speak, in the Munro Room,
Thursday evening at 7.30.

 

Notice

_ Attention of the Students is called
to a request by the contractors in charge
of the gymnasium; that they refrain from

cing upon the -gymnasium premises.
ersons who do so without business are
trespassers who sub,ect themselves to
considerable personal danger and at the
same time cause serious  inconienience
to the contractors.
Orr

.Pat Church and Peg Allen went
oe to New Glasgow for Armistice
ay. ~

 

 

Honoured By Comrades

 

DR. JOHN STEWART

Wedding Bells
Ring For Dalhousians

Many Dalhousians will be interested
to learn of the recent marriage of

 

 

| Lillian Ashmere, second daughter of

'Mr. & Mrs. Arthur S. Barnstead and
Professor F, Hilton Page, M. A., son
of Mr, & Mrs. F. H. Page, Toronto.
The ceremony was quietly performed
at Fort Massey United Church, Halifax,
on Friday afternoon last, with the Rev.
John Mutch officiating.

The bride was unattended, and wore
a smart frock of brown velvet with a
hat of matchine shade, a brown fox
fur and a large bouquet of Talisman
roses,

Mr. Harry Dean, organist, played
the wedding march and Mrs. E. W. H.
Cruickshank sang during the signing
of the register.

Immediate relatives only were present
to witness the ceremony, following
which Professor and Mrs. Page left
for a visit to Toronto. Upon their
return they will reside at the Westminster Apartments,

Mrs. Page is a graduate both of the
Halifax Ladies’ College and of Dal
University, having been a
popular and active member of the class

of 1981. Prof. Page who received his
Master of Arts degree at Toronto
University is associated with the

Department of Philosophy at Dalhousie. The happy couple will receive
the felicitations and best wishes from
all their friends at the University.

 

Barb Condon and Dorothy Redmond
were in Moncton for the week-end.

Dalhousian’s War
Veterans Parade

In the absence of the usual Commemoration Service at the University
the members of Dalhousie’s professional
staff who served in the army during the
War, joined the regular Armistice Day
parade which assembled near the Nova
Scotian Hotel yesterday, and visited
the various memorials throughout the
city. Dalhousie’s enrolment of war
veterans included all the ranks, from
private up to major, and many parts
of the British Empire were represented
in the turnout, At the Halifax War
Memorial, the University ex-service
men placed a wreath in remembrance
of fallen comrades. This action was
indeed a beau geste, for the lack of any
formal commemoration cermony this
year, might otherwise have allowed
Dalhousie’s slain sons to remain without being paid due and reverent respect.

 

Medical News |Engineering News Impressive Ceremony
Held at New Gymnasium

The Dalhousie Medical Society held
its third regular meeting in the Health
Centre on Thursday evening November fifth with the president, Don
Thompson, in the chair. The chief
business before the meeting consisted
of a discussion of possible improvement
in Interne rotation. A committee was
appointed to survey the ground, Ken
Parsons, '34, introduced the matter of
having the Medical Library open in
the evenings if enough students would
avail themselves of the opportunity.
The Med. Dance occupied considerable
time in discussion and plans. Mr.
John Budd and his committee have
promised the best on Monday evening,
the sixteenth of this month. Dr. C. B.
Crummy delivered a very interesting
paper on exophthalmie goitre. It was
much appreciated by everybody present. Dr. Theodore Monaghan introduced Dr. John ‘‘Flynn” Hunter to
the students. He said that Doctor
Hunter had been persuaded to speak
to the Society although he had but
recently arrived from Vancouver.

Dr. Hunter’s well-chosen theme was
very skilfully treated and his suggestions will be found very helpful to the
promising physicians who were privilegedtohearhim. The initiation of the
first year medical students followed
and proved to be both intertaining and
enlightening. The members of Class
of '36. made a most favourable impression and were heartily received into
the Society. Refreshments were then
served. The Society have a full and
varied program prepared for the year
and the outlook for a successful one is
bright.

‘Was there

A meeting of the Engineering Society
was held Wed. Oct.4, Many important
matters were discussed including football, volley ball and another of the
“bigger and better parties.”’

Manager Mackie of the football
team asked for the support of the
Engineers at all gamcs, and told of the
arrangements which they had made to
neet the Truro Bearcats on their
fisid, Nov.- 11. The Engineers, he
pointed out have a strong team this
year and shou.d be able to make a
cyeditabie showing against their worthy
opponents. Linsday Rood was then
elected as volley ball manager and
asked to look into the matter of drawing
up a league as soon as possible.

An Engineers party was unanimously
passed and the Social Committee set
a date Nov. 9. in the Nova Scotian
Hotel.. This party promises to be a
great success.

| One of our most prominent Engineers
Joe Kitz, appeared at the King’sAcadia game with hi pajamas still on.
Mackie and Scott are responsible for
his having to miss the game, but we
all worder what would have happened

af he had been’ al.owedto appear
he fore the excited fans.
} During the third year Enzineers

tour of the Sugar Refinery last Friday
Charles I. Bacon picked up a lot
dbout the art of making our universal!
sweet. When the Capt. of the boys

out with the wisecrack “After seeing

you fellows I'll always believe in evolution’’ our old standby Hew Christie
when the retorted ‘Well
we are all in the same boat anyway,
mister,”

.

 

 

The C. O. T. C.--A Classic Heritage

 

In view of the present controversy
surrounding the COTC the Editor
has seen fit to appoint a special investigator into and about that institution.
The report of the investigator has been
tabled. It is far too exhaustive for
publication so the Editor’ventures to
present only a few parts.

Contrary to prevailing opinion the
OTC is an institution of long standing
in human society. It is now established beyond dispute that the Heidelberg
Man was an active member of one of
the first OTC’s in existence. Moreover all the great nations of the world
have had OTC’s with the exception
of Persia and Siam. In the former
country a clause banning the OTC was
inserted in the roll of the laws by a
pacifist scribe and the decree was signed
by King Darius when he was in his
cups. The law of the Medes and Persians being immutable this unfortunate
provision cannot be removed. In
Siam the King is reputed to have ruined
the budding organization by the annual endowment of a herd of white
elephants. Members of the COTC to
this day wear a white band in loving
memory. It is also reported that the
art of goat-stealing was developed in
the dawn of history under the auspices
of the Arabian OTC. The interesting
fact has come to light that the dove of
olive-branch fame was dispatched from
the Ark at the instigation of the Noah
Company OTC, the only one in existence at that time. An eminent historian of the time quotes Moses as
saying that with an efficient OTC he
could have made the Promised Land
in six weeks. The first tablet of the
Original manuseript of Homer’s immortal epic, the Odyssey, recently
discovered in the publisher’s wastestone chasm, bears the original title
of the poem, the OTC. The error is
indubitably due to subtle pacitist
propaganda. Later the Greek OTC
distinguished itself against the Persians
who as we have seen were not permitted
this ingenious system. Hannibal, one
of the finest specimens the OTC ever
turned out, was ever mindful of the
early training he received through it.
One of the war elephants which he led
across the Alps wasnamed OTC. The
elephant unfortunately died in the
mountain snows, but Hannibal, not to
be deterred, decreed that the nearby
peak should be named OTC and such
it has remained al] these years in the
Swiss corruption Matterhorn. The
Romans would never have gained a

footing in. Britain had not the Celt lee
OTC been engaged in sham battle | [4S "0 pants.

with the Pict OTC at Stonehenge.
One of the most potent oaths ever
used by Richard Coeur de Leon was
“By my OTC.” An outstanding Barbery corsair is authority for the statement that nobody could pull a galley
like the OTC. The forefather of all

American OTC’s was organized in
Oklahoma by the Kiwash Indians and
proved an outstanding. success. An

unidentified person, the first American
prohibitionist in Central Africa, was
eaten by a native OTC at the annual
smoker,

The Editor regrets that space does
not permit the inclusion of more of
these interesting facts. He believes,
however, that enough has been quoted
to convey the idca of the glorious past
of this gallant organization. In case
there should still be doubters he appends the following quotations which
appear in the report.

ADMIRAL LORD NELSON—
England expects every man to join the

COTC.

CARRIE NATION—Down = with
the saloons! We shall use the COTC if
necessary.

DUKE OF WELLINGTON—(Telescope to blind eye) I cannot see anything inconsistent in the COTC in
Dalhousie.

PATRICK HENRY—Give
COTC or give me death.

TUBAL CAIN—I owe my start in
business to the OTC.

CAROL I OF RUMANIA—I don’t
want to go home. I prefer to remain
in the COTC,

R. B. BENNETT—Markets! ]
shall blast them open with the COTC.

J. H. THOMAS—The COTC is
‘umbug.

CHIC SALE—Efficiency is every
me

thing. Drill in the COTC.
PRESIDENT HOOVER—I shall

appoint a commission of enquiry.

MACKENZIE KING—I am plunged in the valley of humiliation. Not
a five cent piece for COTC.

WOODROW WILSON—It will make
the world safe for hypocrisy.

TARZEN OF THE APES—I have
found COTC methods very effective
for organizing my apes.

MAJOR McCLEAVE—I am proud
of the institution in which I hold an
honorary commission.

Errata—Further information
tainable at HO of COTC.

ob
 

 

 

 

Lays Corner Stone

MR. HECTOR McINNIS, K. C.

Shirreff Hall —
Notes

The inmate of room 325 referred to
in last weeks Gazette, wishes it to be
known that her name is not Aggie
McSnort and that in the many times
she has eloped she has never borrowed
her father’s pants in fact she has no
or Ydather we mean her’ father
Oh well what does it
matter what we mean.

We would like to know, who is this
handsome naval officer that mounts
the steps of Shirreff Hall—we also
wonder why Gladys Jost has been
wearing a few brass bottons on her
dress lately.

 

 

Liddy Dorman is going to Fredericton for the week-end. Having you
been having trouble with your teeth
Lid?

It would seem as though the chickens
and cakes had been plentiful by the
number of feeds. On Sat. night Oct.
3lst the second floor wing, en masse,
brightened up the sitting room with
Hallowe’en decorations and gave a
regular old time party. They bobbed
for apples told fortunes and ghost
stories and at last devoured the
chicken.

Monday night was the scene of a
birthday party on Ist floor wing.
More chicken, more cake. No wonder
the girls are gaining in weight.

Girls of Shirreff Hall are going
commercial. Typewriters are replacing good old fashioned gramophones.
Why Frances Vassie can even play
“SILVER threads among the gold”
on hers.

C202: FG.

Parades

 

 

There was a large number turned
out on Saturday last for the first
Tactical Exercise of the year. The
Company went by trams to the Arm
Bridge then a short walk to the scene
of the “fray’’. Under the guidance of
Lieut-Col. Sparling the Company succeeded in holding their ground against

the cold wind, The exercise was on
Outpost Work. The Company was
divided into syndicates and each

worked out its own plans and solutions,
Col. Sparling and Capt. Roy summarized the exercise, and appreciated
the readiness and the keeness with
which the work was taken up.

There are to be more outdoor
exercises during the fall and it is hoped
that they will be asinteresting and well
attended as the first.

Corner Stone Laid on
Tuesday

At 12.15 Tuesday morning the President, Governors and Students attended
the ceremony which was under the
direction of Mr. G. Fred Pearson who
acted as Master of Ceremonies.

Rev. Clarence Mackinnon, M. A.,
D.D. delivered the invocation. The
Master of Ceremonies then spoke a few
words of description of the new building
drawing special attention to the many
and varied uses that it will be put to.

President Stanley heartily thanked
the Governors for their untiring work
then went on to speak ot the great use
and part that the Varsity Gym will

 

plav in the life of the College. The
President commented on the semi
professional sports as carried on in

larger universities and the draw back
they are to true college spirit. He expressed his pleasure in seeing the new
building arising and spoke of the benefit
it will be to the health of the members
of the University. President Stanley
said how proud he was that Dalhousie
kept her sports and games clean and
clear of professionalism, and that the
great thing is to have everyone taking
part, not just a chosen few, who become highly trained, while the rest of
the students just cheer. He congratulated his predecessor, Dr. Stanley
McKenzie for his fine work and effort
during his term of office.

W. Gerald Stewart, President of the
Council of the Students thanked the
Governors for the Student Body. Mr.
Stewart emphasized the fact that it is
to be a Memorial Gymnasium, a memorial to those Dalhousians who gave
their lives for their country.

After laying the stone and declaring
it well and truly laid Mr. Hector
McInnes, L. L. B. spoke to the students
bringing out strongly the great strides
that Dalhousie has made since he was
an undergraduate. He pointed out
that the obtaining of Studley might
be called the Renaissance of Dalhousie.
From that time on the College has made
colossal steps not only in size and
numbers, but in the quality and type
of graduate that it is sending out in the
world. Mr. McInnes mentioned the
fine service rendered to the University
by the past President, Dr. Stanley
MacKenzie..

He concluded his speech by impresing

upon the students gathered there that
the aim of Dalhousie is to graduate
students who are clear thinkers, and
independent thinkers. Rev. Clarence
Mackinnon concluded the ceremonies
with a few words of blessing.

 

Fraternity News

Once again Delta Sigma Pi Fraternity steps to the front. Last
Monday eve the boys in Commerce
gave a delightful Party at the Lord
Nelson Hotel when the Pledges, Members and Alumnae gathered for a very
informal evening. ‘Thirty-five couples
swayed and stomped to Joe Mills
and His Orchestra, and at eleven-thirty
a charming buffet supper was served
to the dancers. For most of us it
ended all too early, but it was conceded
that the Delta Sigs had celebrated in
a very fitting manner Founder's Day.
The Fraternity came into being -6n
Nov. 7, 1907 and since then has grown
and flourished as one of the leading
professional fraternities in North Amertca.

Tuesday evening the Phi Delta Theta
Fraternity .held an informal house
party in their chapter home at 187
South Park St. Yale Brodie and a few
of nis boys supplied music that was
smart, peppy and all that could be
desired. Tasteful decorations and delicious refreshments did much to make
the party the big success that it was.
Plans are being made to hold another
in the very near future.

A

On Tuesday evening November 3rd,
the Phi Kappa Pi Fraternity held a
smoker- for the associate members
serving on the University Faculty.
The affair was most enjoyable and was
well attended.

 

a

JOE M
and His

|
|
|

Tickets $3.00

us IMIED. DANCE

Orchestra | Mon. Nov. 16 - Nova Scotian Hote!

 

 

 

TSP.M.

THE

 

 

 

 

Elaborate Supper

Unexcelled Music
Special Novelties

 

 
    
  

 

   

 
 
 
 

 

in aS om Min dee : ; any
| z 4 7 | pu nounieer's | | | November 12th, 1931
a THE FROM OUR The

 

} | A Two-Faced Japan? . C
| There Travelling Statermen. |] PASSING BLOW || CONTEMPORARIES
Peer eae are ma U.S. and The League. ek
eh git ah te ee el eg et a: aie he Book B : :
; "The Oldest College Paper in America.” | Prior to this Manchurian outbreak Ae ep ne ie
Be ele ee ee po Japan was looked upon as a high-mind- Blow Out Ye Bugies

Seer se 4? s bt. sy ihn ai ed nation in its international relations. Over The Rich Dead.
ee ee ae ___. Managing Editors: In its numerous post-War dealings|} Public Speakine.
} (ALD, B. A. _ THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295| with Western nations the Japanese

WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995 | government conducted itself with scru
OBSERVER’S

Column

  

 

 
  
        
  
  
     
 

 

 

Is Canada Sound? They've taken up shoe-shining and
mending at Dal. It’s not the depression either—merely the Commun
Freedom of Speech. ity Chest. Phyl. Brown and Ray

lous attention to its honour and the

   
 
   
 
 
 
    
    
  
   
  
   
  
  

 

 

   
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
    
  

 

: chee ice Hebb have announced the following
pee tyr _ Associates: , ulfillment of its committments. Its as book bureau was The Unthinking Student. rates.—Mud removed $.05—Polish $0.5
hy a H. B. CHANDLER F activities in the field of international ese at Deiouen Its avowed - Shine $.05—Total 15 cents. We can’t
_ LILLIAN SADLER, B. A. Sa. he P epee objects were to provide better service tell yet joe mbo are the members,
= DANIEL SPRY ‘ adhering to the Pac ee aris 7 1 es for securing the prescribed text books, but they'll be a 200n to those Ww hose
epee are aS <) ae rere. vouon’ @ fact well ngteay rd. to provide the books at a lower life is just one undarned thing after
are ert, es Sports Editor: at the time since Japan had a vital cost. Just now when examinations That conditions in Canada are not another.
Beer’, Ry R. D, DUCHEMIN Bs Pes Now uu violation of i aaa are looming just overthe horizon and | fundamentally sound was thé opinion| oN has issued invi

ets 5 tod B9603 a - ore a a Seat tadicciod a text books are becoming of increased | of a Hart House debate audience recent- Baldy” : iat d las issued invi‘ (s.- News Editor: wee under the Pac s h d importance to the faithful and of vital | ly, and it is more than probable that; tations to a Parc eesi’’ game to be
OS ERD CARPET NOR the ideals its spokesmen Nave expressed, importance to the last minute pluggers, | Maritime students would give the same | held in the basement of the Arts Buildeat a kOe _ MARGARET pee a, and still do express it appears tat it Ms paradoxical that as yet many|verdict. For the last thirty years|ing at 8.30 a. m. Tuesday. All sixth~ pee Irate ELIZABETH MURRAY _| Japan is playing the invader in Chinese students have been unable to secure | Canada has been building for the future, | year Arts Students are cordially invited

mager: RUTH CRANDELL Asst. Business Manager: |territory. There is doubtless much to the prescribed books. for a population of fifty millions or so. | as this will officially open the season.

} MAHON — ea eo CHARLES CLARKE, B. A. | be pleaded. in extenuation—her pre- To account for this inconsistency, |} Railways, steamship lines, public works ———S
5 err B2436 carious position, her a re Man- several explanations have been put] have been so expanded that they have In the Commierce-Med, footbal|
Br ie P] Vn ie pe Proojt Editors: churia, a ay . me = beheel forward. New texts are being required; | become nothing less than a burden for a match, Doug. Seeley, star back-fielder
if ae ee, ~ AARON ZIVE, B. Sc. provisions. ig eee i n has | Some of them have gone out of publica- country of ten millions to keep up.|of the Commerce team, made a sensaae es. BDWARD, B.-HIGGINS re t ie oe erin? rages re. | tion ; it has been necessary to send for] Hasifax is about as good a picture as| tional 75 yard run for a touchdown.
ae ea! ay a ; i ; a dificult task to fae . t y bi- | Some of the books to England. But we can see of our overstocked national Unfortunately he had only twentya : ree ey By ors cake Geren cae these excuses do not wholly apy. shop, Grain elevators without ot a ae ie om en and
euiesnicelene: in WR c or 7-9-1 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S, | tration. 3 ‘ It is the opinion of a large number of | hotels without guests, and piers without | clutching the ba —Doug kept on
ay INTED weer ee .|it cannot be risked before an pole students ae at this late date find|ships. If little Peterkin should ask|running anyway.—S-E-E-L-E-Y—
board? Japan refuses to ta 0 | themselves, through no fault of their] old Casper (a Harbour Commissioner) | Seeley!
the League in refusing to ae ee own, without the pre-requisites of] what all those immigration sheds are fea oS

i el ee her troops. Can this be Japan, the study, that a measure of cooperation | for, think of Caspar’s embarrassment] Fat MacKenzie is having trouble
SPE mist ee Woe son. * DANGEROUS PATHS. | preacher of peace. among the students, the professors and| when he explains that immigrants are| with his new car already. Only last

eee Mal ee Ee . > ‘ ‘ the Book Bureau might have eliminated | not encouraged to come here, in spite of
or. The old Studley Bridge Club, that hardy perennial which oe ra o eee ae some or all of these impediments. It] the fact that every thing is built in the
omed so_br ightly several seasons ago in the smoking room of pe ee ane Plcet dent Hoover would Bee eet practically ee pope of a areas Eee: ee
Cer eee dc kae ge ae. pa - ; Pou : ea : ; »ofessors ave|also, a mere c ; sht not be able
Cee real | Tee ieee SCROrts Tdicae ta  eee teetore renee [aetna mere child, might not be able
vi] oll bad sign, for in spite of many shortcomings, the pee Tee visit has nore een a tedte—ia 4 ment of classes how many books of|the politician’s plea for disarmament
. _ of those gatherings round the card-table did much to direct way. A paces pee, tae various kinds would be demanded, but | and his ery for higher tariffs. At the
ate a spirit of friendliness and good-will among the hetero- |@ Ey tated he Pi hed te Reoutwe it seems probable encugh, that an present time a Commission is inquiring
eous participants. On this ground alone, one might be in- ee a : fd he eA q|advance intimation of the books in-]|into the feasibility of the. Chignecto
ee eng es L peruerp: ee aed pe 8 srlook : f th . inor dis- tions: on’ the ee me PI oN 4 tended to be prescribed to the Book] Canal, a work undoubtedly of vast
| ined to condone, or at least hi ernie ae = Pon . ee the limits o Ee OPE ee oe * |} Bureau or the publishers might have|expense. Boards of trade in the various
ualifications of such a Club, were it not for a dangerous practice | ing ears known Bre eee ees insured better service in obtaining] towns seem eager that it should be
which has lately been much in evidence. We refer, of course, to Otherwise t Vier ae ee aa 1 |texts. In some of the professional | built. To the unenlightened observer
9 he habit of la * ¢ card-games for money enough. ee =) ery is classes, the professors themselves take] the Chignecto Canal is about as neceseee oy P ee oe be : d i di holeheartedl me 2 BO! Pik het a th S nate a list of those who desire certain text-| sary to the Maritimes as an extra leg to
Now, few persons will — Roa to See ae v7 ee BS can people. d 8 sosibility : ear books and obtain the required numbers |acentipede. The fact that coal miners
udiciously infrequent indulgence in gambling and betting y | Bora See fs . eee he _ peel a from the respective publishers. It are idle, that fishermen cannot sell their
e who can easily afford to do so. Possibly these factors lend aes ut an mig ; full aril would be more difficult to apply such a | fish, that the farmers are making a
| zest ar d interest to the game. But when gambling becomes seat Bo Ge Dei, = Y system in the larger and less intimate | bare jiving, is just another bow! of
Tate n he rE f. collegi h ot inconsiderable et hi ee ae Ht f vetett Arts classes, but some modification of | cherries to the “yes-men” of progress.
, ent among a group of co segians, when n¢ sete tess This aoe anit, 2a! ie sew that system, we believe. could be work- | A lowering of our standard of living is
Ss of money are won and lost, and when colored chips are heads oO Be aes e atiodal ed out satisfactorily, Another plan | due politically as well as individually.
vot in o use as well, the time has come for a halt to be called. vee rerrer: ite ia tae would be for the officers of the oak
hat. the small clique of students who frequent the overnments, and what is a government store to ee ee pas sheet oO u
ng roo m, are going too far. They are on dangerous | for matters of policy but one man, or |!" each class under the care of the pro rejoice that at last these Communists
hi sh time that the Students’ Council, or some other | two, or half a dozen. Governments, jit | f°°*°" : ee pase been pees ee bis
Siesee err PAN Sao <sigt aod Fe . ait 27 oe human. The. mae See sacia} | abe locked up and on trial for sedition.
e matter due consideration... ‘The Sc iabaeets a cs. oe Os ae one A number of eran ae 2 eee The goodly city of Toronto they praise
ambling in any form on its premises, but rarely | another. by way of personal contact ase ent Aganet ee eo ontered | 33 the upholder of the finer things of
risen for drastic enforcement of the ruling. | the better for their mutual understand- | 4% ™42y == Abia es life. Perhaps it is blasphemous for
Mesut ate oe ies . fagt eli Th informa! these contaets | 10F Specificstudents. When these books] mere students to disagree with the conea ty will not peas tt the Se eet prt Saittees 661. “That fa, one point | Came in, these students were not noti-/victions of their elders, but the fact
ttle advic begerrot Bt ANCIERY vice will serve where the League has done a great}fed, either from the bulletin board, as! is that many of us will not sympathize
eerie tees SS service. It is now customary for the they might easily have been gone with the present methods of dealing
oer eee eee) Fes.) Prime Ministers or Foreign Ministers | OT ™ 2°Y other manner. | But the books} with Communists. Freedom of speech
NG TRIBUTE. | eget oe so ordered were disposed of to the first | ; ; reals like 6 Clore
2 RING ANID me te of the great European states to spend ; is the very essence of British life. Com
ht -atae, ote ; ¢ or students who applied for them whether : iaieiae hi ;
fo ee ee eS : ie Bes ' a good four months of the year at Gene- | * 1a Aanks munists are citizens of this country and
ae Ate a avr andered such’. sterling |vein one another’scompany. Through they had ordered the books or not.} 5 such have a right to our common
wartime veterans, who rendere ‘ 18 he i d these visits| And those more provident persons} British tradition.” The press ignors
ing of comrades broken by the terrible strain f 2 Pee eat 8 eee ge found themselves no better off, and} 4. does not have wit enough to.sée this
Ppaic a fitting tribute to Dr. John Stewart, the often worse off, than the improvidents point. These pariahs, say they, would

became almost weekly events this fe had tailed :
= et ee ak e . ; to place orders. The|* - Shiai hs a.

. mg courage and noble character were their} summer the statesmen of the world| Who had faile overturn the state. The state is supeet cs ees ae fear of the Book Bureau to have un-| nosed to be some dim abstraction that

are si 4 ns - 4 a . t . .
ee 74 siding st Never was an honor more deservedly bestowed, for,|are being drawn into closer contact. |'°4F ° keels
re pink “See sete g sta " Neve ¥ beet uti. D y St t ee 4 |The harm that may come of personal claimed volumes left on its shel = ’*| is untouchable, rather than a group of
to as Ane ader of our University s Hospital nit, r. Stewart dislikes is insignificant while the good understandable, but it comes far short people whose ideas about the best
aes cor -as leng yas it is distinguished. Certainly he is one resulting from mutual friendly under- ob eee such high handed pro-| method of living together are, like all
of Dalhousie’s brilliant sons; an offspring who has amply rewarded standing is all-important. How in- the Back Heclad Se Dalbowsin hes poeta auaes. abies to change. In
ap his foster-parent by an enviable career of Service. finitely superior is this to the old way large possibilities as a University eee E Ee enehetneee rhe eee
eT eet ee eT eee = raise ; t this season, when the|of statesmen hemmed within the con-|‘*13°__ That the Wa ise tiave n of ideas th
ede est eculiarly significant is it that, just a ; fines of their offices and coming in utility. That these possibili les Nave! And ideas are difficult things to lock
thoughts of many people are viewing in ‘shadowy retrospect the Contact with their contemporaties only | 2°t) this year, been eeven ied is 8 ea cand “hubeiecii. Bab saakAbaves
__war-years, attention should be centered upon one who has devoted by formal note, infrequent conference Pere facie cued ir 5 heen and the princes of this earth have at all
e. 7 ee” weer 7 ou . Oe, ' - a x « . . . . a . oO > = 5 > a) . ‘i . a | . =" ‘
himself to the alleviation’of pain and suffering. Significant too, | or accredited representative. cov of the tBived wean aaeient aan ay of Hetors Ppex gel actly
ete Se the fact that honour should be paid to one whose character is sil a eee” ey Manchuria, | both professors and students. stupid people, PR TEE POS RAMEN, is

De ere i matal itari iri so necessary in :

__ essentially humanitarian, a spirit so rare and yet so n alia “blew, ane bit: of geod whe d| aa a
| ~~ any truly cultured civilization, Were there more men of Dr. | representative of the United States ne ssh Dinu. the “betes mn
_-—-—sSStewart’s type in the world, war and strife would be unknown, | for the first time sat in at a meeting of : “aeticn | difficnlties were
Poe oe SREWaE ¥PO 40 aE af Pee y Council. “Si America | Bushed.. The practical difficulties were
| - ~~ and good-will would reign supreme. Let us all remember his|the League Council. Since STiC4} i superable.

Wis 92s ‘o example; his fine modesty, his devotion to service, his true Chris- peice Ber fo ae hee Ree ee Eee
| -—s- tian character; and let us try to profit by that memory in dealing] weate the rest of the world has lament. | Have not gained, in the past, the sup
a

NS Peale eset ; port they have merited. This has
F mo ge’ with our fellow men. So sep cuares © ye eae been due in part to the oe of
A f out the international organization can ey ae ee gee
“gn 3 t ane. . af ; stillroom for improvement in promoting | *”, tbe Dalhodsis Werate con.
seh . ‘ American cooperation with the League Bagee ee eee ae aac etn abe .
Bertrand Russell once remarked that people hate to believe from the outside. Though it flatly ge eon oN teabee tp ag ae
anything that will make sense out of what they are doing. And | refuses to join the League the American Be Eras ne ie i ae
anything y . } insuperable. In a Halifax of so many
ee . - the converse is just as true: people are forever doing things that ee ete aopaet auditoriums could not one be found
contradict what they say they believe. Whether this curious a eae i oo open to the glory of ees i
condition is only the result of muddled intellects, or whether it] p2tions on the one han a, aad chesand Dalhousians? {Better to declare | the
_ is the product of downright hypocrisy on the part of the public,}at by parochially-minded citizens on practical di ficulties be Poceralante ©
is not altogether clear. But such a state of affairs at a university, | the ee United ears has entered “They fotight to make the world
Pt oatas where straight thinking is supposed to be fostered, is surely de- | more and more into the work of the safe for Democracy.”’ What a ghastly
pe An erent T= AIS League. This last move is a step of fallacy: But they fought: and when
Bree -plorable. ; ; great importance. Heretofore her par- the Saba thevanidno ‘te 4 price iat:
+ About two weeks ago the Gazette published several state- ticipation has been in. the cooperative] ;; they aia eneeoca the Wilsonian
ments by preminent Dalhousians, which strongly approved of kpnesons a jibe Peseae Now ~ iipia of warctnie hallacinatiwns and
per _ the Disarmament Petitions then in circulation, and which general- is he cpcchinede 4 x a pheveteion | in the final reckoning they may have
ede ‘s ly exalted the cause of world peace. That the sentiments GA” | if this move presages the appointment achieved no less. ae the old we
_- pressed were those of the majority of students seems indubitable. | of a permanent. American Minister to oa oes eo dive es te eae
oe. .> 2 Indeed, it is doubtful whether a dozen persons could be found who Soa thete toxepresent his comity the forces) wood evil) The Dad
would not be entirely in agreement. Yet paradoxically enough, S oreae deci ch abe hac been won | the realization of war's horrible futility;
_ _ within Dalhousie’s very walls there is an institution whose under- |* § & seek won | and here the object lesson of misguided

ss eva is diametri i i idealism.
: i e lying purpose is diametrically opposed to pacifism, whose ultimate ide

week we saw Johnnie Budd towing it
about town, with Fat and Miller sitting
in the front seat and looking very
worried, Fat said he thought it was
water in the gas—or something. Anyway they left it at a garage to be overhauled, and after two hours a_ bright
young mechanic discovered that the
gas tank was empty.

 

hope that those of our own will be
different. So we must stand by and
watch them broadening freedom slowly
down till it is flat. One cannot but
think that if they were familiar with
history, even the period of the early
Christians or that of the French Revolution, they would not be so pitifully sure
of the efficacy of suppression of ideas
by force.

a

 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

The interest of the student body in
the disarmament petitions of last |

 

Our daily newspapers unanimously | week would indicate that the much

maligned person, the student, is not |
quite as unthinking as professors like
to believe. This demand for individual
thinking is the theme of many an edi- |
torial in our exchanges. It is one of
the charges levelled against the modern
world that supposedly educated people |
are going primitive, that they have
ceased to think for themselves. Their
minds are at the beck and call of each
new trend of opinion; and the latest 4
statement on any subject is glibly

repeated without question. One of
the purposes of a university education
is to teach people to think, and the
student who leaves the university
without that sturdy independence
necessary to think out his problems
and make his own decisions, had better
have stayed at home. By this means
only can one rise above the influence
of that popular, but unthinking type
of demagogue that sways the affairs
of our nation. It is well, then, to
look carefully into such an international
movement as that of Disarmament.
Whether one agrees with the theory
or not at least the issues involved shouid
be clear in the mind, so that the question can be discussed intelligently,

 

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

      
 
  
 
  
     
      
   

BIRO DS nee ah were ae

<i
hn ey iy

  

 

 

—-* - . EE oe 
Drop in and see the Dalhousie Sweaters and House Coats

 

PPPS BAF i

young mens overcoats

outstanding in style
and value--------
students know style
------they’ll find it here

new oxford greys and
blues---with or without
velvet collars-------soft
brown and blue silver
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
    
 
  
   
 

at OM @

 

   
    
   
 

Pia Nitto th <8 4 . ° Alla mistake, perhaps, but the sacri~~ aim is militaristic, and which to our mind, is fundamentally out fice wot lesa real: -aflian, vain, snaybs: eet
____ of place at a university. We refertotheC.O0.T.C. F; rom F ar bist, Wie arasheude “16! ag emer etl tones new pat terns
_ -—~—s«éAAXlthough this organization is supported by thcse who purport eee Thirteen little years have rolled by and

----styled for the well
dressed young college
man---
ae gs! ‘| From far, fromeve and morning the flame we caught f the ;
ne | . 7 ¢ , Cc ; 2 ie flame we caught from them so iow,
ps 20 be ardent advocates of peace, we do not know ee logi And yon twelve-winded sky, che eeneitanuen tee wide dae
i _ they justify their position. For we have a quaint o idea that The stuff of life to knit me wasted, that the practical difficulties

en militarism and -pacificism are somehow opposed, and we have 4] Blew hither: here am I were insuperable!
; aking suspicion that a considerable amount of sophistry is athe t

   
    
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
   

m \

 

Mei ink thale Garcinanigat ; Now—for a breath I tarry The advent of the Bates Coilege
— ded = MONE ASINENG spctgpeiae Of ae pope oe Ace ee Not yet disperse apart— debating team brought to us again the
n favor of retaining militia and armaments for defence, but not| Take my hand quick and tell me idea of a Chair of Public Speaking. oo

for the actual carrying on of offence. The distinction is far too} What have you in your heart, At Bates College they have such a
‘subtle for us: and it is certain, that to speak of either defence or oe and Ppeepaes Chair, aon ee Giese bee ae in
(oy ASRS IED ee SS SES SRE Se et Pe i peak now, wer; ternational fame by its public speakers.
ence is to show one’s insincerity in regard to the outlawing of Haw-strali Pheloganeeay: AL Deiheede we bios La eo

ih Ee ear 3 ’ a Ere to the wind’s twelve quarters — of which the graduates’ will depend
that asit may, the fact remains thata universityis motthe| I take my endless way. ~ -|for success not a little on their ability

wr the preparation of defensive forces. Playing soldier is at A. 5 oe Lag” |iB public speaking. In_ affiliation to
_puerile pursuit, and should not be carried on in connection ere. «aes ee : eee ae y;
+ Dalhousie’s men and women are presumably on the) ow HAVE THE MIGHTY | Sonetcnt sn thn Tet Bebeat Dal:
f education, and should be using their modicum of FALLEN! iF ottkie: ne inate H@elon is Gerad 1a Babli
promote a spirit of broad international toleration and —— speaking. — ay

‘ome! it is time we discarded all this furtive hypocrisy. | . ay oh ee comets en-} Until pe year ee student in science
al ow peace among the nations to be a mere catch-|Jeye¢ 4 quiet walk on an autumn|wasrequiredto take aclass in Draw
 

the prices start at $19.50

Shanes MensWear Shop

30 Spring Garden Road

7. a
- .

=

: . .. eye : : io hat in tjing 1B f the i :
and let us, by getting rid of militarism in our vet But what was in thatling 1 or e€ improvement of

- - Discount of ten per cent. to Studen = a
} tn) e amulator? Congratulations, Doctor|his pictorial expression. Upon this ts
xample to the rest of the world. ae ie |

(Continued on page 4,)
   
  
  
 
  

:

  
   
  
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
    
     
    
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
       
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

   

ig gs , - a ; dan ie ‘ .

_- ‘The twostudent petitions on disar_ mament, which were circulated among
. the different classes of the university,
have been responded to with great]
“ng ni = * . 5” ote ai, et

Py enthusiasm. The first petition was to

é
a

 
 
  
      
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  

the Premier of Canada, requestin
that our country be ably represente
_ at.the Geneva Peace Conference in
- February.. The circulating of this
- petition was undertaken by the students

of Canada on their own initiative, and
eas” it is the first time they have ever shown
any active interest in public affairs.

_ The other petition, for ‘‘World dis
~

a

armament by international agreement,”
was drawn up by the League of Nations
ie ee. Society of Canada. Each of these

‘ a __ petitions has about five hundred signa_~ -tures attached to it,

It is especially important that stu_ dents should take an interest in world
affairs at thistime. The nations have
_- reached a critical period in their history.
_.. Great changes are taking place that
Bre are affecting the world as a whole.
_ ‘It is difficult to predict what will be
the outcome of al! these changes.
> People are bewildered (and who can
_ blame them) when they hear of big
- business firms, bankrupt; our economic

‘structure, threatening to collapse; the
~yalue of democracy challenged on all
sides; war, waiting its turn just around
the corner. These enormous problems
- will have to be settled within a very
hd ~ short time or disaster will be unavoid
_ able. We as students must consider it.
- as asacred duty to exert our influence,
2 both now and when we go out into the
world, on behalf of world peace and the
better conditions of mankind. 3

Sees ~ Will) Archibald.

I
” 2
i
a f
.

oe :

of

    

i

| i
ee
ae
I

I

m1
7 ~

ae,

——

 

 

me z 3 oe

Death of Dal
_ housie Alumnus

i eas ‘} Pi sialieeas \ ¢

Be aes The death of Dr. Kenneth Beaton

_ . + which occured at Sydney a_ short time
ago was received by all Dalhousians

b Pyirct with great regret. The deceased was
| -——s in =‘his late twenties, and had for the
| _pastthree years enjoyed a successful
dental practice in his home town. He
_ ~~ entered the Faculty of Dentistry at
'__ Dalhousie several years ago, where he
_-- was outstanding both as a student
‘s ~-. and as an athlete. Football, and
Bi especially hockey were the sports in
_. which he starred. He was also one
of the early members of Phi-Kappa Pi
_ Fraternity. Pees
_. . After spending three years at the
College by the Sea, ‘‘Kenny,” as he

; universally known on the campus,
“migrated to McGill where he received
- his dental degree, and was again a
eader in social and athletic life. In
1928 he returned to his native Province

_ to practice the profession which he had

* chosen for his life's work, and was

doing very well until his untimely
deat Ar ere teves a widowed mother,
to whom great sympathy goes out in
this time of bereavement. Possessed
of superlative ability, a prepossessing
racter anda friendly personality,
Pee place will be a hard

    
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
    

 

~

 
 

   
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
  

 
 
   

 

"-. The annual Pine Hill Dance was
rag _ held at the Green Lantern on Tuesday
BS evening. Pine Hillers have a reputa‘tion for throwing good parties, and this
bere es tone was fully up to standard. Hund‘reds of banners, and streamers in
Dalhousie and Pine Hill colors, were
~~ features of the decoration scheme.
- ‘The chaperones of the party were Professor and Mrs. W. R. Maxwell. Excel- lent music was provided by the Parker
- Orchestra. The programmes were nice- fy done in Pine Hill colors. The
~~ “dances were named after prominent
| _ Hillers, and we predict that “‘Sprack’s
> Sprawl’, and ‘‘Squire’s Squeeze” will
become the most popular steps of the
' season. The high lights of the evening
___ were the Paul Joneses and the novelty
-» dance. When the dance was about
half over a few simple souls breezed in
eo and tried to crash the party: but tle
ee > “committee breezed them out <gair.
| The girls of the party were the pick cf
fe} _ the city and campus and showed the

geal old Pine Hill spirit which always
» makes the Pine Hill Darce a unique
__ Suecess.

at

oa

  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

  

 

  
    

  
 

i me 1 )
i a 7
Pd " ia
|
: |
bs ’
=~ /
’

In The Eveni

_ For evening refreshment,
ei... i choose The Green Lantern.
ji] All foods, drinks and Ice

| Cream arethe best quality
) ic and moderately priced.

a,
ie pr

“7
{
7

 

oe

a

ty

   
   
  

 

   
   
    
 

a.

4 i ¥
ee

;
:

4s
-er eo 4
al yp ain

|| The Green Lantern

  
  
    

ew

 

~ lai iz —
er, Tees.
me

~ aa
for
;
e

a. ;
_ |G.A. McDonald
_ [| — TOBACCONIST |
- Smokers Requisites of every
‘4 a ef Doniesial
seme and Imported

  

 

   
 

 

 
  

 

 

‘<

     
   
   

tic nature.

of the times.

tainment.

Spring.”

compete.

together.

see Doug. Gibbon,
Glee Club, or Howard Kennedy, of
the Choral Society.
banner year!

   

 

  
 
 
  
    
   

   
 
    

Discusses

- Programme

Aims to raise standard of

music

<

— —_—- -—- —

“What shall wesing?”’ was asked. of
the large group that assembled in
Shirreff Hall for the first meeting of
Choral Society. A chorus of voices
answered : ‘‘Tannhauser!”’
er number appeared at the second
meeting of this society, whose chief
aim is to study and enjoy better music.
What do these facts signify? It is
merely the indication of a great change
that is taking place in th
young people who no longer are content
with the so-called music that characterizes this ‘jazz’ age, but are seeking for
something higher to satisfy their aestheThey are more and more
confining dance music to its proper
sphere and are looking to the classics
for diversion from the fret and hurry
An article in this week’s
paper proves very interesting reading.
In a prominent dance pavilion the
leader of the orchestra introduced a
period of Hungarian music as an interlude and was met with the acclaim
The relief from the
monotonous drone of jazz was exceedingly welcome, and it was requested
that this be a regular part of the program. Yes, weare becoming impatient
with things as they are and the next
few years will show a great change.

all the patrons.

Two years ago a few stout hearts
made an attempt .to revive Choral
work. The first year they appeared
as part of a program, but after many
moments spent in refuting the pessimists and meeting much opposition,
they produced last year a concert consisting solely of music.
was a

revelation.

eight p. m.

 

~~ 
HAVE WE
FORGOTTEN 9)
ANY TAL G. ,

Should Say We

Have.

We're going to get fitted out with those snappy
new Dal. Sweaters, and
at the same time, see
some of the new—

Slazenger and
Spalding
Badminton Rackets

at

400 BARKINGION

HALIFAX, N.

A stilllarg
e tastes of

Their success
A representative
audience received their efforts with
hearty approval and encouraged the
society to go on with their good work.
The record attendances this year make
it inevitable that Glee Club shows in
future will take on a new significance.
One would have been laughed to scorn
a few years ago were he to mention the
possibility of light opera at Dalhousie,
but with the success that
‘accorded the efforts of the Choral
Societies of McGill and Toronto and of
the New England colleges, it isapparent
that Dalhousie will not be far behind
them in adopting this form of enterTo quote from the McGill
Daily:—“‘‘It was suggested that the
amateur societies: then working on
productions of Gilbert and Sullivan
operas should compete for a _ prize,
to be given to the most competent and
finished production.
was not carried out last year, it has not
been abandoned, and it is hoped that a
‘Competative Operetta Week’ will be
one of the outstanding events of the
Dalhousie, with all the talent |
that now lies dormant in her student
body, should prove a very serious
contender for this prize were she to
All you Dalhousians who are
musical—if you sing why not turn out
on Tuesday nights and sing; or if you
play an instrument, why not become
part of the Symphony Orchestra and
at once enjoy yourself and do your
part to develope this side of our activities? Artists are not . encouraged
because they have the perfectly silly
habit of not being able to get along
What we want is a membership of just ordinary folk who are
zealous to contribute what.they can,
and to learn what more they can.

means you, and YOU and YOU!!
come along and join us.
Choral, come to the Hall on Tuesdays
If the Symphony,
the President of

has been

A though the idea

That
If for the

Let’s go for a

 

      
 
 
 

 

s
Shem ae

ila

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| Sensational Developments
Campus Queen abducted

by former lover

Over the week end so much has
happened in regard to the abduction
of our dear Campus Queen, and developments are following one another
so rapidly that our local pew apepers:
the Halifax Gerald and Hail, h
been carrying headlines that would
even put Thunden to shame.

Detective Snoop. hired by the Gazette
to trace the missing Aggie McSnort,
has scored 1 run, nothing but hits, and
three errors. The run—a homer at
that—was when he was ignominiously
ejected and closed by wrathful females
from the annual meeting of the
‘Society for the Suspension of Fallen
Arches.”” Just how he got under the
plattorm he refuses to divulge: but
we do know that he has given up
snuff fur life. An inadvertent sneeze
wns the cause of it all.

As justification he claims that
Aggie was abducted by this Society
with the motive of jealousy. Since
Aggie got all the rides to school from
the Hall (by admiring boy-friends) the
rest of the girls got flat feet from
walking; and for revenge they abducted her, His hits, painful and expressive, as they were, were the direct
result of three errors.

1. Looking for Aggie in the girls
room.

2. Asking Big Jim what he knew
about the case.

8. Searching every room in Sherriff
Hall. Needless to say, his results
were emphatically negative—literally,
figuratively, and physically.

But that’s not all. His search led
him to the back door of 64 Edward St.
and there, hidden in the cabbage patch
was Aggie’s handbag. Customs inspector Hoffahitch promptly censored
its contents. Amongst the varied
assortment of bobby pins, switches,
compacts, Ponds Cream, two safety
pins, and a copy of ‘‘Darwins Theory
of Evolution’’ he found the private
diary of Aggie. Beware, ye faithless
lovers; your deeds are known, Aggie
tells all. Her last entry was:— ,

‘‘T fear this coming evening. I have
told Vic I can’t love him and yet he
persists; and after all he is such a dear.
Six feet one; lovely blue eyes; and
raven locks; and that low melodious
bass voice of his just thrills me divinely.
But I love—’’ Here it ends. at
happened? Whois Vic?

Solve this mystery, fans, and win
a free trip to Mars. Send all solutions
to George Bernard Shaw, co Gazette
Office. Watch for further exerpts
from her diary next week. They are
delicious. ;

THE JUNIOR CLASS PARTY.

 

~The Junior Class held their first}

party of this year at Shirreff Hall
October 2nd. If it wasn’t for J. D.
Saddler, Yale Brodie and Dib Stuart
providing such excellent music we
might say it was the Hall that was the
secret of the the success of this party.

Laurie Hart wore a very relieved
expression towards the end of the
evening so we take it, this party was a
success socially and otherwise. It was
the general thought that we had such
a good time, because Professor and
Mrs. Bell, Miss MacKeen and Professor
Ells were chaperones.

ave.

 

Book Review

Communism — H. Laski Home
Universtiy Library

__ Mr. Laski has written a book which

illustrates the frame of mind in which

one who thoroughly understands the

implications of the Communist Theory,

regards it,

While admitting that the communist
doctrine is a dangerous one, Mr. Laski
points out that thisis no guarantee that
the effort will not be made to give it
application. He says that ‘‘as few
doctrines in the world today it commands a devoted service of which no
man is entitled to underestimate the
significance.’ There is no doubt that
the communist ideal has a tremendous
psychological appeal, especially to tke
younger generation,

The Communist theory is simple.
Probably in this lies its greatest fallacy.

 

It refuses to recognize that this is a

complex world “‘Its panaceo is unreal
simply because the world is too intricate
for panaceas to have universal significance,”’

Mr. Laski admits that the ideals of
the new faith are right. It is their
method that he condemns. primarily.
As Mr. Chesterton pointed out, Communism would not resolve capitalism
into. its component parts, but would
merely cause it to collapse on our heads
in a crash.

Mr. Laski, in concluding says that
“the answer to the new faith is not the
persecution of those who worship in
its sanctuary, but the proof that those
who do not share its convictions can
scan an horizon not less splendid in the
prospect it envisions nor less compelling
in the allegiance it invokes,”

HALLOWE’EN DANCE,

A Hallowe'en dance was held by the
members of the Phi Rho Sigma fraternity on the evening of Oct. 31.
The house was appropriately deccrated
with jack-o-lanterns, black cats, silhouettes and orange and black streamers. Music for dancing was _ provided by Miss Coolen. Much credit
is due to Fred MacLellan, Convener
of the entertainment committee,

Among those present were—Grace
Glover, Mary Currie, Mary Thomas,

 

 

Barb Condon, Marg Sadler, Frances

Hart, Kay Marrill, Peggy Hall, Jean
Boutilier, May MacQuleny, Muriel
llaystral, Gladys Farquharson, Sid
Wallace.”

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

Wanderers Grounds

Sat. Nov. 14

CALEDONIA « WANDERERS

ADMISSION 50c. - 
 

Halifax -Ladies College

Conservatory of Music

Musie in all Branches.
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.

MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A.,

Teacher's Certificate.

STANDS 25c.

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Household Science: Teacher's
and Dietician’s Certificate.

Graduation Diploma.

MR. HARRY DEAN,

Director of Conservatory

 

Principal.

The New -
Fall Society Brand

styles are advanced, correct and
distinguished. The woolens are

rich, strong and exclusive.

The

workmanship isthe last word in
quality and expertness, and includes exclusive tailoring features
like the SNUG-EASE SHOULDER
and the VAC BLOC ARMHOLE

. You obtain greater value for your dollar in Society
: Brand Clothes than in any other make we know of

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

439 BARRINGTON STREET.

—Iis the cut of your clothes that counis—

ay ————

A Column devoted to Comment and Controversy

 

Halifax, N.
Noy, 38.
The Editor Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax, N. S.
Dear Sir:

 

It is plain to be seen that the guiding
who
had been Chief Librarian for so many
years in our University is no longer felt,
when rules of an arbitrary and unjust
character are in force in the institution
he loved so well, and to which he must
far-off
Europe where he rests from his years

hand of that ‘‘Master Mariner’,

look in fond memory from

of devoted toil and duty.
To. force students to pay fines

failure to return over-night books before
ten in the morning is to totally disregard the situation in which many of
M:
are they who live great distances from

old. Dalhousians are placed.

the college and who are unable to

turn the loaned books before nine in
And it is mest unjust
to ask that students who have but a

the morning.

few minutes between the first
second class and who are
detained in the first class for
minutes to rush with the books to
Library.
penalty for each failure to return
book at the very minute.

the writer that many students in

usua
some

It isa hardship to suffer a

ee ee ee ee ~~ ———

Page Three

The Student Forum

S.,| books and who have peremptorily
become indebted to the library for
their failure to return the book promptly at the end of the two weeks. No
notice has been given to these students
but the penalty was demanded on the
return of the books.

It is reasonable to suppose and ithas been proven in the past that considerable inconvenience is caused by
failure to return the books promptly.
But sir, I submit that college men and
women, can be made to realize this,
without having them subjected to a
type of punishment common to elementary and grade schools. If certain necessary text or reference books |
are limited in copies then they ought |
not to go out of the library at all.

But to exact a fine because the book

is brought in at half-past ten or eleven

or if it be in the case of a two-weeks |
book—a day or two later—is a most

amusing spectacle in an institution
such as this.

Those of us who in former years
sat under Archie MacMechan can well
appreciate the effect of his absence
in many ways, and amongst these is
certainly the influence he exerted in
the Library—his foster child.

 

 

for

ny

re
ind
illy

the

the

Furthermore, it has come to the knowledge of

sincerely,

“OLD TIMER”.

Very
the

professional schools who, ignorant of| J. 1. D.
the rules as to penalties, have borrowed

 

CIGARETTES

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarships of $76.00 each.
Write ©r call for Calendar or advice.

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

   
 

Fh Qe,
ety A
iat $e

S .
0
ee
F s
*s a
ba

 

 

 

= mee, tn,

Ayn
WN ag |
.s

W inchesters
of course

 

ester

   
     

Blended Right!

 

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

   
   

 

 

Leather Goods

Trunks
Bags and Luggage of

Portfolios,

all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

CHOCOLATES

 
  

 

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
       
         
     
     
       

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED
B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service

| Same Rates 24 Hours

| Two travel for same as one,

| More than two, 20 cents extra.

|

Covers up to six.

 

 

 

   

 

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

  

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
   
   
      
    
     
   
  
 
  
   
    
  
   
   
    

go faa Hos.
" Successful Trip

f Credited id Hockey

After numerous Feds deliv the Dal
girls ground hockey team (we hope you
know there is one) being favored with
fine weather, went to Windsor on
Thursday last, to meet the Edgehill
team. 1 the ‘girls who had attended
three practices were permitted to play
on the team if they chose to go to
Windsor. The result was a turnout
ot twenty-three.

The game was played on the upper
‘Campus of King’s Collegiate School
and was efficiently handled by Miss
Harris and Miss Oxner. The game
was an even and well matched one
though the score was one sided. Dal
girls being defeated 4-0. Flo Keniston
played the best game on the forward
line making several long runs which
ended directly in front of the goals but
shooting was difficult, the ends being
covered with mud. Barbara Walker,
a Dal freshette from England, and

Martha Keniston did splendid work in
the backfield. Both made fine stops
and got the ball away in good style.

The Edgehill girls made several hard
attacks, four of which were climaxed
by goals, and played well together.

After the game the Edgehillites
served tea which was heartily appreciated by everyone. The college girls
arrived in the city in the early evening
well content with the contest and not
in the least downhearted about their
defeat.

We hope that the team, of which
about 50% are freshettes, will stick
together and give opposing teams
something to worry about in the
future. We wish also to thank those
people whose cars we used to make the
trip.

 

 

‘igers Aeaiie a clean sweep
\ own ane tied with Mount
on in ‘their P. E. I.—New Bruns
arns ae tour Se the week
tin unstan’s University
ha avictictawn Abegweits, and |
toa scoreless draw with the

-eollegians. Although the
‘e without several of their
i. and played second team men
places, they nevertheless are
ngratulated on their fine showing
h a strenuous schedule as three

ries i
ic e giving. “ehean: a great battle.
sae game, which was played on
~ Riaay the Tigers won over St. Dunae y a score of 5 to 3, gaining their
it P touchdown about three minutes
vie fter the opening whistle, when Vance
Maawell went over on a thirty-yard
Pichia’ _ Davidson succeeded in con- verting the touch. McMiilan, for the
ints, went over for their only touch
es half way ag the second half,
ut *St. Dunstan’s ailed to convert,

me : on te

ving Dal’s margin at two points.
re tay not much to choose between

; ee
F We in

. uF
=
me

   

[ be Prey 's boot was responsible for
Ree Le of Dalhousie in their second
es Island game on Saturday against the
Es: et cae Bea, The game was hard fought,
eee, 2.) CRO a. the Abbies did not prove as
fannie the Saints, and was featured
by hard tacking and fine runs,
= Davidson, who took a penalty kick in
Ps the second half, made it count for the
only: score of the game, and Dal won 3

  

- aa. ‘Dalhousie ae to Sackville. for the
. Shite game of their tour, and though |
tired, put up a fine exhibition against
ount Allison, coming near scoring
Reevceal times. The game ended in a
a Borel draw. The following yvee
Re a eet e the trip: Fullback, Art Suther
 

 

Badminton

King’s -gymnasuim is open every
Monday evening from 7.30 to 11 p. m.,
for the Dalhousie Girls’ Badminton
Club. It is hoped that all Dalhousie
girls who are at all interested in Badminton willturn out thisyear and make
it a strong club. It does not matter
whether you have played before or not.
Miss Harris will give special instructions to beginners from 7.30 to 9 p, m.

Since we have the court for only one
night and since there is a large class,
it would be better if the advanced

| players would arrange if possible not
| to come until 9 p.m. If you haven't
atacket you can obtain one by signing
the list in the Arts Building right away.
An interesting programme of tournaphate is being arranged “ the term,

. aa
rns eae

    
  
 

re
gre
os.

 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  

three-quarters, C. Stoddard,
es ‘Covert Hewatt, G. Thompson; halves,
ee . Stoddard, Davidson, H. Sutherland;
xwell forwards, Cooper, Stewart,
Murray, Baird ( apt.), Eagles

e 5 “Pat” ‘MacKenzie, Assistant Manager Art Pattillo, and
_ Coach Ab Smith accompanied the Dal
x te team on their tour. They returned
ee to a? on Tuesday Sere:

vi “e,

  

 

 

 

 

 
 

ring eee every ‘mem‘has received ose
se. le ever very little has
n said about its coach. Ab Smith
"thie year served in this capacity
a has certainly done everything in
wer to make it a winning team.
as never missed a practise and has
on many occasions taken off his coat
Ee vest, and formed up with the scrum
“to show them how it was done in the
tic - day 73. of '25- 26.
ig » We think it very necessary that the
e eudents be informed of their having
not only a hard working coach but a
very efficient one. One who has as

Plercle F; fies

There will be a meeting of the French
Club to-night November 12, at Shirreff
Hail at 8.00 p. m. Everyone welcome.

The Passing Blow

(Continued from page two)

 

one class he languished over twice the
money and about three times the time
required for the ordinary Arts or
Science Class. The practical benefits
derived from the class were negligible.
A Class in elocution, on the contrary
would supply a real need to a great
many students, and ought not to represent a wider ‘departure from University policy than did this drawing class
when it was best capable of justification.

GARRICK

Costs Far Less, Offers The Best

20 & 30
25 Children 10

 

 

__-well the co-operation of the squad and
Pe e respect of every member. Hats
es, off, Dalhousians, to our football coach
Coa oS Ab Smith.
Pee We have also to thank two men—
_ two busy professional men—who came
-—s gut and gave us many excellent tips
-- and although not having the time they
would like to have had to give the
f team, they certainly did all in their
- power to help the team. We _ wish
to very heartily thank Drs. E. K.
_ MacLellan and Seymour MacKenzie.
e

 
   
   
     
     
      
  
     
   
 
 
       
       
        
 
    
 
     
  
    
  
 
 
    
  
  
  
 
    
 

  

 

Evenings
Matinee

  
   
  
  

a ‘Dal Flying Club

in the Munro
ng, thirteen in
  

Friday and Saturday

“A Holly Terror”

—With—
GEORGE OBRIEN

 

On Monday evening, evening
. Boned Gr the Forrest Bull ildi
ee iy thirteen interested students met to
-—sorganize a Dal Flying Club. Don
Saunders, instructor at the Halifax
Aero Club, was present: and, acting
- in an advisory capacity only, outlined
the brilliant possibilities of such an
organization. To some, thirteen would
be an evil omen, but those present
a i eawed” a real, deep-rooted enthusiasm
ie ay» is the Club which bides well for its
a uture success,
Bk _ At the next meeting, Don Sounders
. is going to have a definite proposal to
make to the Club members whereby
a Pilot's license may be secured under
= hundred and fifty dollars. This
‘ roximately two-thirds of what it
mae cost at a regular flying school.
We want everybody who is at all
interested to get in touch with Bill
een ees B.0255, Orton Hewat, B.3758
oe, Ed. Higgins, B.4207 It won't
Cae aie pay anything to enquire: and
_ we have the basis of a real organization.
a Get behind it, you chaps: we need your
‘interest and support. Please watch
re tote Bagece for news of the next

  

Monday and Tuesday

“The Squaw Man”

—With—
WARNER BAXTER

 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
 

    
  
 
 
 

 

Gh Club Trials

_ Trials for Rid ale a ee act ae Dey “Why

Think” by fay ‘ hristie will |

be held - the Al uminge Room of the

N ee Homestead on Thursday night, | ff
v. 12th at 7.30. The parts to be
ad nate been posted on the notice
and all those wishing to try out
= are eC nested to be

 

     
   
 
 

  
  
  
 
   
   
  
  

selves that night:
appear in such a galaxy of fine adorment

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

 

a SS

i

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

thaw Davide

U. K. C. ‘Notas

 

Brilliant Event The first session of King’s Mock

There have been dances, and more’

dances; but when the ‘‘Boys-in-Law”
held their annual ball at the Nova
Scotian last Friday night, they set a
standard for future dances which seems
well nigh unbeatable.

The girls of Dalhousie outdid themfor never did they

Pink tulles rich with white shimmering
satin: ultra smart creations in black
and white seemed to tie for first place
with deep blues and black velvets.
Since a man’s powers of description in
this regard would be greatly inadequate
to fully describe the latest in Paris
gowns, be it sufficient to say that nowhere could such a brilliant and beautiful assembly be found. Now, girls,
you may think this flattering, but
please rest assured that it was the
unanimous opinion of all the male
members there.

A smooth floor, the right atmosphere,
the right girl—what more could one
want? Kit Hagarty gave us a redhot
sizzling brand of music that would have
done credit to Lombardo or Rolfe.
When those lights went low and we
drifted around the dimmed ballroom
to waltz music that was slow, dreamy
and teeming with romance, hard
hearted and souless indeed was the
person who could still ponder Prof.
Stewart’s latest dissertation on 1ogic
or reflect seriously on the Livy for Latin
2. And during the fourth extra when
Kit and her boys put more real rythem
and syncopation into ‘That Great
Big Man From the South” than the
author ever dreamt of, the orchestra
scored the hit of the evening. Mute
testimony was borne by the shining
faces and quick breathing of the dancers: tired feet were forgotten: all care
was shoved lightly aside—and in a
mad furious whirl we all “tripped the
light fantastic.”

A delicious buffet supper was served
at midnight, but in the mad rush
your scribe only managed to secure
one sandwich and a cup of Java.
Even the chefs private sanctum was
not immune to the search of the hungry
lawyers. As was evident by the numbef of times ‘Ye old punche bowl”
was replenished the boys-in-law maintained their reputation of having an
unquenchable thirst. And it WAS
good punch too.

We desire to thank our Patrons and
Patronesses who so courteously and
charmingly graced the dance with their
presence. Dean and Mrs. S. E. Smith,
Major and Mrs. Read and Mr. Justice
and Mrs. W. F. Carroll did the honours
and as chaperones were all that could
be desired. To Dippy Donahoe, Bill
Jost and G. P. Coleman should go the
credit for such a wonderful dance:
they worked hard and long, and we are
glad to say that their efforts were more
than crowned with success. And in
conclusion one sentence: you ‘‘Boys- inLaw” are bigger and better than ever.
Give us another one: you have the
goods.

 

Special

STUDENT SERVICE

DRY CLEANING
PRESSING
REPAIRING

—We call for and deliver.—

Cousins, Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 RobieSt. 381 Barrington St.
Telephone Lorne 2323

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

We have the agency for a line
of Personal Christmas Greeting
Selling as low as $1.50 per doz., and

cards, of local production.

offering a wide range to choose
from, it will pay you well to
inspect these before ordering]
elsewhere.

Orders solicited from Profes
sors and Students.

 

Parliament was held on Monday even
in the Faculty Room, with practically

eve

nr emningpeerSnsepssaieieees pg sal ate A A NR 8 GO” Se OR AP a SER, SEE SP PE TO NL 6 ERY OP ane ee ee a

member in his seat. Following
the cee from the Throne by Governor-General Vroom, the budget was
presented by the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, and heated debate ensued.

At the recent elections the SocialFundamentalists were again returned
to power under the leadership of John
Andrew. The new cabinet was announced as follows:

Premier, Lord Privy Seal: John E.
Andrew
Chancellor ie the Exchequer: Roy
. Duchemin.
Attorney-General: A. Gunn.
Minister of Education: Miss M.
Fairweather.
Minister of Militia and Defence:
M. Regan.

Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs: F. H. Godfrey.
Minister of Public Works: R.

Dorman,
Minister of Labor: H. D. Smith.
Minister of Fisheries: G. C. Brittain.
Postmaster-General: C. Tapley.
Minister of Mines: H. F. Muggah.
Secretary of State for Internal Affairs: C. Stone.
Minister of Agriculture: J. F. Moore.
First Lord of the Admiralty: P. A.
Mader.
Minister of Health: W. House.
Secretary of State: Miss C. Kirby.

King’s College Co-Eds have accepted
a challenge from the Acadia Co-Eds
debating team, and will meet them ina
forensic contest within the near future.

 

Engineering
Dance

The baetaserne Society held its
second social function of the current
season on Monday evening November
9th at the Nova Scotian Hotel. The
event took the form of an informal
dance which was well attended by the
embryo boilermakers. Yale Brody
and his Orchestra supplied excellent
dance music for the affair, and Prof.
and Mrs. W. P. Copp very kindly acted
as chaperones. About forty couples
attended the dance which was voted
a great success. The Committee in
charge consisted of Messrs. Mahen,
Attractive

Elkin and Goudge.

Comfortable ROOMS
FOR TWO STUDENTS
Sitting Room with fire-place.

For Particulars apply to
ARTHUR PATTILLO

 

 

 

All that is Refined
in Men's Clothing is Yours
with the Fashion-Craft Label

  
   
  
           

ADARAAAAA

A.

OOK

 

clothes that fit with such
custom-made precision
and easy grace, as to
assure the wearer smart
distinction and yet
with never a trace of
self-consciousness. This
is the real test of quality
—so well fulfilled in

FASHION-@RA T

Dress Suits and Tuxedos

tom $30.00

Dress Accessories

Shirts, Collars, Dress
Bows, Sox, Gloves
and Jewellery.

Colwell

BROTHERS

Limited

Pe Soe

 

November 12th, 1931

candidate has studied both Greek an‘
Latin. (In compensation for thi®
ouble course in the Classical languages’
he may omit from the Grade XII curriculum either the modern foreign language or a science.) Students holding
this Schclarship must pursue in Dalhousie University a four years’ honour
course in Classics. The Scholarship
is paid in four annual instalments, at
the beginning of each term. Tenure
of the prize is conditional on the student
winning first-class standing from year
to year.*

A Classics Entrance Scholarship of
$400.00 is open to boys only who have
attended any school in the Maritime
Provinces or Newfoundland, and who
have completed Grade XII or equivalent
instruction, with this proviso: that,
in pursuing Grade XII studies, if not
in his earlier schoo! work, the candidate
has studied both Greek and Latin’
(In compensation for this double course
in the Classical languages, he may omit
from the Grade XII curriculum either
the modern foreign language or a
science.) Students holding this scholarship must pursue at Dalhousie University a four years’ honour course in
Classics. The Scholarship is paid in
four annual instalments, at the beginning of each term, Tenure of the prize
is conditional on the student winning
first class standing from year to year.

In addition, candidates are oo
on two special papers, one in Greek and
one in Latin, by Dalhousie University,
and rank will be determined by the
candidates’ standing in these two
papers only.

a at

Valuable Scholar-':

ships

(‘Continued a page one)

|

A Mathematics Entrance Scholarship
of $600.00 is open to boy's only who have
attended any school in the Maritime
Provinces or Newfoundland, and who
have completed Grade XII or equivalent instruction.. Students holding
this Scholarship must pursue in Dalhousie University a four years’ honour
course in Mathematics. The scholarship is paid in four annual instalments,
at the beginingn of each term. Tenure
of the prize is conditional on the student
winning first-class standing from year to
year™.

A Mathematics Entrance Scholarship
of $400.00 is open to boys only who have
attended any school in the Maritime
Provinces or Newfoundland, and who
have completed Grade XII or equivalent
instruction. Students holding this
Scholarship must pursue in Dalhousie
University a four years’ honour course
in Mathematics. The scholarship is
paid in four annual instalments, at the
beginning of each term. Tenure of the
prize ‘is conditional on_ the student
winning first-class standing from year
to year.*

The two prizes above mentioned in
Mathematics shall be awarded on this
basis:

A creditable pass must have been
received by the candidate in the subjects of English, Latin or Greek, one
modern foreign language, Physics, and
the regular Mathematical papers set
for Grade XII by the Common Examining Board. In addition, candidates are tested on a special problems
paper in Mathematics set by Dalhousie University, and rank will be
determined by the ‘candidates’ standing
on this problems paper only.

A Classics Entrance Scholarship of
$600 .00 is open to boys only who have

 

*For example, a iathetarshis holder
whe failed to secure first-class standing
in the first year, would not be paid the
annual instalment in his second year.
But, by attaining first-class. standard
in the second year, he would be qualified for the prize money in his third
year.

 

CASINO

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
November 12-13-14

“* The Skyline ”

—With—
THOMAS MEIGHAN
HARDIE ALBRIGHT
MAUREEN O’SULLIVAN
MYRNA LOY

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.

—

 

 

 

attended any school in the Maritime
Provinces or Newfoundland, and who
have completed Grade XII or equi
valent instruction, with this proviso:

that, in pursuing Grade XII studies,
if not in his earlier school work, the

FROM THE

WINNERS FRoMT

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

‘Merely Mary Ann’

—With—

JANET GAYNOR
CHARLES FARRELL
BERYL MERCER

 

 

SUPPER DANCE

 

9 to 12 p. m.

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
HARRY COCHRANE’S ORCHESTRA

Cover Charge $1.00 Service A la Carte

The Lord Nelson Hotel

 

Satisfy Your
Taste For

Expensive
Clothes

But Pay Only

$35.00

If you feel that your old habit of paying
60.00 for a suit of clothes isa little out of
step with the times. ...try paying 35.00
buy the Birkdale.

You will still be satisfying your taste for
expensiv e clothes. ...and the chances are
you'll be just as impressed, if not more
so, with the Birkdale at 35.00 than any
suit you ever bought at 60.00.

Come in today—we promise you a very
interesting assortment of new Fall greys
and browns.

Perfect fit assured—a type for every

| Binhdate

, 1 Trouser Suit...$35.00
Gm MEN’S CLOTHING DEPARTMENT

   

 

¥ Eaton's Main Floor
EATON CC
MAR IMEsS LIMITED

 
