* 2A q
tLe a
Mae '' u

 

 Tence of the session.

   
 

LOT
VOL. LaeTi.

| ER
Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 18th, 1981.

 

 

 

 

Lively Argument at
| Sodales Political Debate

 

Liberals Carry
Meeting by
Narrow Margin

On Thursday Nov. 12th Sodales
Debating Society, sitting as a House of
Parliament, passed ky a slim majority
‘a resolution that ‘‘in the opinion of this
House the unemployment relief pregram of the present Government is not
in the best interests of the country.”
The resolution, a proposal of the Liberal
Opposition, ran through two and a half
hours of strenuous and impassioned debate before the House divided. The
political fervour of hon. members glow
ed in abundance while the Munroe
Room seethed with excitement such as
a debate has not provided for many a
year. Masterly speeches and trenchant arguments were scattered about in
profusion, punctuated by innumerable
interruptions, violent applavse and
‘vociferous booing, unsolicited interjections, and a number of hot disputes
tween private members. At no time
in the course of the long debate did
interest wane or enthusiasm lag. The
greater part of the forty-odd members
an attendance were acquainted in part
with the subject matter of the resolution and all were possessed of opinions
and party stripes which they did not
hesitate to display. At times, especially towards the end of the debate, the
eee of hon. members was so
general and emphatic that an erstwhile
dignified House was converted to the
- wildest scenes of disorder.
The debate was a pleasing combina__ tion of intelligent argument and party
_ propaganda. The leaders of the nation
_ were quoted with earnest enthusiasm
_ or bitter ridicule according to the colour
-of the speaker. Accusations and re_ criminations were flung about while the

 

  
  
   

 
  
     
  
  

   
 

   

- total absence of female members of
the House in no way impaired the excelig ae That absence
- was but regarded as another indication
of the political apathy or timidity of
whose place is in the home anyhow.

Summary of Debate.

~ Hon. Mr. Finlayson (Lib) expressed
the desire that the debate be lifted out
of politics and the measure given scientific consideration. He proceeded to
describe the workings of the Unemployment and Farm Relief Statute of 1931.
In cases of direct relief the Dominion,
Province and Municipality were each
to pay one-third. Where necessary
public works were constructed the Dominion and Province each payed 4 while
the Municipality was saddled with 1.
This was unfair to the weaker Municipalities which most needed the relief,
while those which needed help least
were able to pay most. Work such as
outdoor manual labour on highways
would not solve unemployment fora
large part of those in need of work are
physically unable to stand such empoet: Government should rather

ave subsidised certain local industries
when such persons could have remained
at thetasksto which they were accustomed, e. g. the railways could have
laid in advance stocks of rail and coal
with the Government paying the differential. Moreover this whole program
is a monstrous piece of politica! patronage since relief is distributed by the
same persons and-in same way as provincial road work. Legislation was
loose and slip-shod and the Government
had refused to take valuable suggestions
offered, such as those advanced by Mr,
King and Mr. Lapointe and others.
It should have been an independent and
non-partizan committee of administration in each district. He moved the
resolution.

(Continued on page 4°

 

Kappa Kappa
Sigma

The appa Beppe Sigma Sorority
held its first rushing party at the
home of Audrey Ryan on October
16th, 1981. It was in the form of
a semi-formal dance. The sorority
aoe vets all dressed as boys in white
lannels, dark blue coats and berets,
_ the rushes were dressed in informal
afternoon dress. The ‘‘gentlemen”’ calfor their girls in cars to escort them

 

  

oa to the dance. The dance was a pro
ramme one, and the programmes were
led out quite formally.

Refreshments were served, and the
dance broke up by the ‘‘gentlemen’”’
_ escorting their partners home. .
___ The second rushing party of the

 

7? a

ai 1 Kappa Sigma Sorceite was

ka at there room at 167 Spri
i Shea den Road on October 20, 1931,

  
   

&

enches gave full vent to their approval
cdi isagreemer 4 It was a wonderful |
evening, long to be remembered. The]

 

 

| Speaks to Students

 

RT. HON. MacKENZIE KING

 

Glee Club
Holds Trials

Last Thursday evening, the Glee
Club Executive held tryouts for the
one act play ‘‘So-Why Think,” by
Major H. G. Christie. There were
four characters to be filled, and from
the fifteen or twenty aspirants present,
the executive chose the following
players.
~The part of Tom is to be taken by

 

W. A. Reed; and he is to portray that |*
type of individual one sometimes finds
who

possesses mid-Victorian views of
divorce, morals and living standards.

Laura Marshall, who portrays Harriet,

has to fill the role of an ultra modern,
sophisticated and horribly monetary
young tadv (we are tempted to inquire
*“ust what other kind is there?’’) whose
views On marriage and morals are not
all that could be desired. Richard,
whose part is taken by Ernest S. Higgins, 1s a swindler of the first water, a
man with a past and yet who manages
to retain certain elements of manliness.
The diplomatic, but firm, policeman is
played by Mr. Pink.

Sunday afternoon the cast held a
rehearsal in the Forrest Building under
the capable direction of Mr. J. P.
Connolly, local barrister and talented
actor, and Victor Oland.

With such a good play and a splendid
cast, this presentation will be well
received by the students of Dalhousie,
at the Glee Club show to be held
Tues. Nov, 24.

 

Notice

The one act play ‘‘So, Why
Think,’’ wy Ma ‘or Christie will be
featured in the Glee Club Show
to be staged at the Nelson Hall,
Tuesday, Nov. 24th, at 8.15 p. m.
Short musical numbers and the
usual period of dancing will complete the program.

 

 

Alumnae Tea

 

The Alumnae Association of Dalhousie University held a tea and musicle
at Shirreff Hall on Wednesday afternoon, November 18. There was also
a sale of cooking and sewing. Each
year the Society raises money in this
manner to further its aims and to
establish its Women Students Loan
Fund.

The Society was founded by a group
of women graduates of the University
with the object in view of raising
money for a Women’s residence.
Then Mrs. Eddy presented Shirreff
Hall to Dalhousie, and the Alumnae
Association put what they had already
collected into the beautiful furnishings
of the Library and Reception Room.
Each year they contribute something
more to the completion of an already
complete and beautiful building.

Besides using their funds in this
manner, the Alumnae Society has
established a loan fund. A woman,
prepared for University and wishing
to enter, but unable to do so for
financial reasons, has the privilege of
borrowing money from this fund to
pre herself through.

n the Fall of every year, this group
of women graduates welcome into the
exclusive circle of college life and

Pring | activities the graduates of the future.

At an afternoon tea held shortly after
(Continued on page 4.)

| first time this year.

The Med. | Dance |Shirreff Hall

_ The biggest and best Med dance
in the annals of Dalhousie was held
Monday night in the Nova Scotian.
Approximately 3800 people in the
course of the evening danced by the
skeleton, who occupied a prominent
place in the orchestra. All past Meds
were there, including Fat, Freddie,
Johnnie Budd, Bob Baird, Harvey
and Art Sutherland, President Stanley appeared on the scene as did several members of the medical faculty.
Drummond Eaton turned out for the
Carleton Covey
was stringing his usual line and ‘Coolie’
Harries was heard declaring that he
never drank a drop. Another prominent Med student was there, namely
Doug Gibbon who was accompanied
by a marvellous looking girl in a deep
blue velvet dress. Ninety-nine per
cent of the Freshettes were on display
thus fulfilling the demand for novelties
which were advertised in advance.
Joe Mills was in great form, the St.
Louis Blues being perhaps his best
number. The supper was excellent,
good food and plenty of it. Marg
Sadler ate more than the other seven
people at her table put together, but
being a ‘‘Hall”’ girl she is to be excused.
Ralph Ells, escorting the vice-president of Class 34 displayed his usual
savoir-faire. We missed Art Pattillo
and Jimmie Gray, they must be
studying.

Congratulations are in order for the
capabie committee consisting of W.
C. MacKenzie, J. H. Budd, A. D.
Gibbon and F.C. McLelland and for the
bright lad who originated that program. The chaperones were Mrs.
E. K. McLellan, Mrs. R. . Evatt
Mathers and Mrs. P. A. Macdonald.
Taking it all in all it wasa great party.

 

Dance

 

Never before was Shirreff Hall so
catty as on the night of Friday, 13th.
Black cats. above every door and on
every window but the sweet young
things that lived there were merely
kittenish.

In spite of the unlucky date, the
Shirreff Hall Dance was a great success.
All the notables enjoyed themselves
to the utmost—didn’t we hear Murray
calling someone sweetheart and as
for Prof. E. Martin, he thought it
was just like 'a wedding,—he could
hardly believe the girls were students,
‘“They were so fashionable.”

About 99% ot the boys tripped up
the steps but it was not due to the
punch. As Ken Mahen said—‘‘It is
nice punch but not like what we have
at the Engineers.”

This year the stags stayed until the
end,—‘‘what there were or them and
there were enough ot them such as
they were.”

Johnny Budd’s orchestra provided
the best music heard this year, in fact
everyone gat so excited that J. D.’s sax
just squeaked and Ken Walker broke
his drum stick.

The dance started a little before
nine and the. guests were received by
Miss MacKeen and Elizabeth Murray.
Supper was served at eleven—the
Shirreff Hall coffee excelled itself and
the party broke up at twenty to two.

The committee in charge of this
very successful affair was Doone
Macdougall, Ted Dorman, Dot Redmond and Glad Jost and they deserve
to be congratulated.

 

 

University Store

 

| To the Editor:—

There are a few points with respect to
the University store which should be
brought to the attention of the students

Some dissatisfaction has arisen this
year largely because certain books
nave not been cbtainable at the store
until quite a late date. The store
follows the policy or ordering in late
August and early September. In most
cases of books which have not been
available in good time the fault is
that of the publishers; and in a few
cases the professors did not send in their
orders until the class met. It might
be suggested that orders be sent in
earlier than late August, but it is to be
remembered that the store is operating
on a shoe-string and that publishers
allows only 30 days from date of invoice. Therefore, if we ordered earlier
than late August we would not have
the money with which to meet our
bills. Not only must we be careful
of the date of ordering but also of the
number of each book ordered. We
cannot afford to carry a large stock
and at the same time allow the students
a ten percent discount on price. We
must order carefully at least until
the store builds up a little reserve
capital. When that is done we shall
be able to carry throughout the year
and from year to year a decently
large variety of texts and books for
general reading. Under the conditions
that exist at present, however, we cannot order beyond the immediate needs
nor can we reasonably order earlier
than we do.

To illustrate difficulties we meet, let
me cite a few cases. This year a certain order was sent out early in September. As the date of expected arrival of the books passed we wired the
publisher. The answer was that they
had mislaid the order. Result: The

Replies to Criticism

 

Dal Loses to Acadia in

Last

Game of Year

 

 

 

Opposed to Paid Coach

PRESIDENT STANLEY

 

Does Not Favour
Paid Coach

That the tactics of many Canadian
Universities in providing elaborate
stadiums and engaging professional
coaches succeeded only in killing real
sport for the game's sake, was the
statement made at the recent cornerstone laying ceremony at the Dalhousie gymnasium, by Carleton W.

 

 

| Stanley, President of Dalhousie’ Uni
books: did not arrive here until late

October. Again, an order sent out
about the middle of August did not
arrive here until late October also.
In another case the books ordered
had not yet been bound. And, finally,
gne order sent out in mid-August has
not yet been heard from. The most
we can do is wire and cable. Beyond
that we can do nothing that will be of
immediate benefit.

With respect to the criticism that
books ordered by individual students
were sold to the first to ask for them,
we wish to point out that the store
cannot hold these books indefinitely.
Experience has shown that a certain
number of students who order books,
purchase second-hand copies and do
not cancel their orders. Consequently
we can hold such books for only a
reasonable length of time. In a few
cases this year books were sold over
reservations. That was an error as
was also the lack of notices of arrival
of books. But it is not a policy or the
store to sell to the first to call for them
regardless of reservations.

We admit that certain criticisms are
justified. We want criticism. We wel
come it as long as it is fair. At the
same time we ask the students to be
tolerant. In view of the extreme
youth of the project and the unusual
difficulties under which it has been
operating, there is bound to be a
certain amount of dissatisfaction on
various matters. However, we hope
that in another year, in our new quarters, with a little reserve capital, and
by learning from past mistakes the
services we wish to give will be given.

Very truly yours,

JAMES M, MacDONALD,
for the University Store Committee.

 

Shirreff Hall
News

Talk about your nightingales—What
is this we hear about Ruth Crandall
singing in the lst Baptist Choir. In
fact the whole of Shirreff Hall turned
out en masse to listen to their pal.
Someday we expect to hear the President of Sodales and Ruth singing ‘‘I
need thee every hour.”

 

 

Who has the crude sense of humour,
who believes in calling up the Hall in
the wee small hours of the morning and
then 1inging off when the phone is
answered,

‘‘There was a sound of revelry by
night.” The old Hall has seen many
a gay party this week what with Choral
Society Tuesday night, French Club
Thursday night and Shirreff Hall
Dance Friday night.

Miss Kathleen Napier who spent the
week in Campbellton. has returned.

Miss Kay Densmore has arrived
back from Bathurst where she has been
visiting for a few days.

Engineering News

On Friday of last week the Engineers
made a tour of inspection of the Imperial Oil plant at Imperoyal. The
process of refining gasoline and other
products was very clearly and carefully
explained by those in charge.

 

 

We observe that the bowling manager, ‘“Tindy’’ Rood has posted a notice
for all Engineers to get ready for a
bigger and better year of bowling.

——

On the day following the Engineers
trip to Truro, Proiessor Copp remarked
“Well, I’m glad the noon hour has
arrived, because you boys will enjoy
sleeping home much better than here.”

 

 

Those answering Manager Mackie’s
call for vocal support responded in a
big way by making the trip to Truro.
They were Ed. Harris, Joe Kitz,
Allister MacRae, Dave Murray, Bill
Wetmore, Gordon Mahen, Don Gore,
Bill Mitchell and Claire Tanton.
Numerous yells were given throughout
the game,

versity.

i In view of the fact that the
matter of engaging a professional coach
has been a rather live issue at Dalhousie for the last few years, the
deciaration of the President hoids
mcre than ordinary interest for Dalhousie students.

President Stanley declared that the
present lack of organization in athletics
which exists at Dalhousie and the
bare stadium on the campus, stripped
of all the elaborate fittings which
characterize other Canadian college
stadiums, was ‘‘a monument to the
common sense of Dalhousie students.”’
While semi-professional athletics were
in full swing in other colleges, nothing
approaching that situation existed
at this university. His only interest
in athletics, he stated, concerned the
promotion of health among the students and nothing else. It was for
this primary purpose that the present
gymnasium was being built. Winning
teams were unimportant as long as
the game was played cleanly and for
the sport alone; the physical development of athletes was the only thing
that mattered.

 

Notice

The Delta Gamma Society will
hold a Tea Dance in aid of the
Community Chest at Shirreff Hall
on Saturday, Nov. 21. A charge
of 75 cents per couple will be
levied. Tickets available from
Elizabeth Murray, Mary Simmonds and Margaret Fairweather.

 

Phi Chi Banquet

The members of Phi Chi Medical
Fraternity assembled in the St. Jusien
Room at the Halifax on Saturday evening for their first banquet of the year.
The dinner followed an impressive
initiation ceremony at the Frat House
where several medical students were
admitted to membership.

Ross Wright proposed a toast to the
University which was replied to by
Dr. P. M. Sieniewicz. A toast to the
Fraternity was proposed by Kenneth
MacKenzie and replied to by George
Covert. The new members were welcomed in a toast proposed by Charles
Stewart who stressed the duties and
ob:igation as well as the privileges of
membership. George Keddy in replying
for the new members pledged their
whole-hearted support to the organization. A. F. Tuttle proposed a toast
to the Profession to which Dr. Eddie
Murray replied. A toast to the ladies
proposed by Gordon Mahaney in one
of the wittiest speeches of the evening
met with an enthusiastic reception
while Dr. Jack Merrit assumed the
difficult task of reply.

Carl Messenger, President of the
Fraternity, presided at the head of the
table. During the evening he gave an
interesting and informative talk on his
trip to the international Phi Cni Convention in San Francisco last summer.

 

 

@

>

Defeat of Tigers
Comes as a
Surprise

Acadia sprang a surprise at Studley
last Saturday when they triumphed
over the Dal fifteen by a 6-0 score to
gain their first victory over the Tigers
in* several years. Outplayed but not
outfought the Tigers put up a stiff
battle but were unable to match the
work of the Wolfville forwards who

 

controlled the ball practically, all
through the game and opened the
scoring plays for the light but fast
Acadia backfield, Displaying the

usual lack of condition that has been
the curse of Dal teams all season
Acadia would have run up a much
larger score but for their costly fumbles
and the sharp tackling of the Tigers.
Coach Kelly's fifteen had the advantage of territory throughout and were
never seriously threatened, play being
within the Dal 25 yard line for the
greater part of the struggle.

Acadia kicked off and Hewat ran
the kick back to the 10 yard line where
he was downed hard. Raston relieved with a nice boot and play shifted
to the other end of the field. Barteau
made a good gain with a, kick from
scrum that landed on the 5 yard line
but the Tigers backfield’ eased by
carrying i, to the 25 line. Ralston
was gaining much ground wih his
punts and both he and Foote attempted
dropkicks that missed by a small

margin. From a serum at centre field
Acadia forwards dribbled over the
line but Hewat outraced them to

touch for safety. The Dal kicks were
falling short due to the strong wind
and play was kept within the 25 line.
The Acadia scrum were heeling the
ball perfectly to send their backfield
away on what looked to be sure scor
jing chances only to have their work 
spoiled by the fumbling of the over
eager backfield who scented a victory
for “dear old Acadia.”

After three unsuccessfu attempts
from the 5 yard line Ralston gave the
‘‘whiskey-wee-wah boys’’ a chance to
cheer when he plunged over the line
on a nice backfield play. Foote
missed the convert. Oyler broke away
at centre but was downed hard by
Shaw. The hatf ended with the ball
in Dal territory.

Dalhousie pressed hard at the opening of the second half but due to the
regularity with which the Acadia
forwards heeled the ball play soon
shifted back to the Tigers 25 line.
Play seesawed back and forth until
near the middie of the period when
after a nice dribhe by the forwards
Fountain, Acadia three-quarter came
in fast to ecoop up a loose ball and
raced 20 yards through the yellow and
black for the best play of the game.
Foote again failed to make the convert.

The Dal half line made some good
gains on punts to touch but Ralston
and Gunter were returning them to
keep territory about even. Pitt the
Acadia fullback was away up the sideline on a twisting run that had shaken
off all tacklers and looked good to
score when Stoddard raced across
the field to spill him heavily in the
cinder track. The game ended without either side seriously threateni
and the Wolfville squad walked off
the field victors for the first time in
several years, and to say that they
were jubilant would be putting it
mildly.

Acadia: Pitt, fullback; Eaton Boutilier, Trenton, Shaw, three-quarters;
Ralston, Barteau, Foote, halves; Gunter, Anderson, Porter, Mitchell, Unruh,
McNair, Sandford, forwards.

Dalhousie: Connors, fullback; Hewat, Drover, Thompson, Oyler, threequarters; Eagles, Stoddard, Davidson,
halves; Stewart, Cooper, Woolner,
Baird, McRae, Murray, Sheppherd,
forwards,

 

Scholarship Award

The 1931 I. O. D. E. Scholarship
award for Prince Edward Island has
been recently announced and again
the honour comes to a Dalhousie
student. H. B. Chandler is the worthy
recipient of the award on this occasion.
The Scholarship has a value of $1400
and is tenable for one year at any
British University.

Bram Chandler comes from Charlottetown where he attended Prince
of Wales like so many good P. E.
Islanders. After a period of teaching
school he came to Dalhousie in the
autumn of 1929. While here he has
become a figure of repute in Pine Hil.
On various occasions he has contributed to the Gazette and during this
term is serving on the Staff as editor
of the Exchange Column. His studies
have led him into the departments of
English and Philosophy in which he is
majoring and will graduate this year,

 
 

 

 

 

Bee eee UT ere RD tS von Bet PRy ons Mate Reyer cc i Lee aney ke ead ns
i Nee ne at , me AL? rege ‘ ale * aul Mitts a . 4 A >» 5
2 nh te es ‘ a say ela 7 ia At : oo
‘aj ie apde nae we At y ie 7 ®
Aa or yee la yy) |
PR ae os |
; r ps ; DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
oye ~ COMMENT
CUS yy ay 72 e - The Turn for the Better. Pp ASSING BLOW
ere ee Te: hae 3 _ France and French Policy. Swit
e Oldest College Paper in America.” a |
Se i ey - . The Turn for the Better. _ The Library—Pro and Con.
eee! 5 . Managing Editors: The recent rise in the price ot wheat Examinations.
ONALD, B. A. THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295 | has brought with it sanguine hopes that A Bulletin Service.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
   
    
  
    
  
   
 
    
   
  
 
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
    
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
3 Associates:
| H, B. CHANDLER
LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.
oc DANIEL SPRY

Sports Editor:
~R. D, DUCHEMIN
- B9603

News Editor:
~ MARGARET DORMAN
_ ELIZABETH MURRAY
RUTH CRANDALL Asst Business Manager:
| CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.

- B2436
Proot Editors:
_AARON ZIVE, B. Sc.
EDWARD B. HIGGINS

as '
YS
2 i é i
; Pal teal! se) & *
4 *

WM MACNAB & SON, 7-92-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.

. This issue in charge of—W. H. JOST

TEMPUS FUGIT.

About this time of the year, an occasional fleeting glance at
the calendar forces one to realize with a slight feeling of anxiety,
the rapid passage of the weeks. _ It scarcely seems possible that in
- ‘less than a month the Fall term will be brought to a conclusion
by the Advent of the Christmas Examinations. Yet such is the
ease: and it behooves one to prepare one’s work, now, ere it is too
Tate. As a rule, the days following the re-opening of college are

 

7”

is,

ie

usually so crowded with activity, and our term so brief, that the
___ beginning is hardly made before the end is in sight. But there is
_--—__— plenty of time even yet, for those who have neglected their studies,
iaeee Saree ; ] dad >
- _-_—- provided they are willing to undertake four weeks of hard, solid
. -~—work. Tempus Fugit! Take warning! For the days aré num___ bered, and salvation is still possible for those who desire it.

hae | ON USING THE LIBRARY.
Ba ‘lt is a rather unfortunate fact, that the students do not take

advantage of the facilities provided by the MacDonald Library,

:
a

ro

 

4 x
hs
a

yey, as much or as often as they should. Although the reading room is
quite well frequented, comparatively few of the books in the stacks
areread by anyone. In fact it is astonishing to note, as one wanders
through the rows of volumes at the rear of the Library, the small
_, number that have even the dust disturbed on their bindings. Just
re other day, we came upon one (dealing with a topic of no small
st) which had lain on the shelf for almost thirty years, undisyy any student hand. And it is a shame that many other
treasures are in exactly the same plight; they seem destined
7 waste their fragrance on the arid air of un
36, extenuating circumstances, Some

d or use to best advantage, the
0 reticent to seek information
rast majority have no inclination to
ther than what is absolutely necessary for the passations. This is a very great pity, for, as Bacon said,
ing maketh a full man,” and one who goes through life une of the wonderful world of books, cannot really be called a man
| ‘merely a vegetable. Why not use the thousands of volumes
in our Library more regularly and fully? It may not repay you
| inactual money; but the reward will be infinitely more valuable.

. ARE THE MOVIES A MENACE?

_____ _ The motion-picture is undoubtedly a powerful factor in modern
life. With the possible exception of the daily newspaper and radio_ broadcasting, there is no more potent moulder of public thought

and opinion. On the countless thousands of uneducated persons
who frequent the theatres, its influence is great, while the effect

upon the minds of susceptible children, is profound. Indeed,
| _._ there are very few who are not in some measure touched by its
|: ecumenical and magnetic attraction.

 

sal ,

ict U)

 

x
‘
srry:
i

i

*.
ve

_ | What is the ethical significance of all this tremendous popularity and power- Are the movies a good or a bad influence- Do
they in any way possess a cultural value, or do they serve to direct
i She public mind upon the higher things of life- These are interest
7 ne cae perplexing questions; not at all easily answered. And yet,
here is the appraisal of an acute Frenchman, Georges Duhamel, who
__ writes in his facinating book, ‘‘America the Menace’’:

i?

eid

Tai The Cinema is a pastime for slaves, an amusement for the illiterate, for
__- miserable creatures stupefied by work and anxiety. It is the skilfully poisoned
nourishment of a multitude that the powers of Moloch have judged and con_ Gdemned, and that they have succeeded in degrading. These pleasures follow
One another with feverish rapidity—so feverish, indeed, that the public never
Fai 44 prea eS tinie to understand what is being slipped under its nose.
_ Everything is arranged so that in no event shall the spectator be bored.
_. Heis given no time to use his intelligence, to react, to participate in any manner
Lee Oy whatsoever. And this terrible machine, so elaborately dazzling, with its luxury,
its music, its human voice, this machine for stupefying and destroying the mind,
ery Brreny omong the most qeeenisiiing forces in the world.
anit __ And J assert, that any people subjected through half a century to the actual
ak cast _nfluence of the American ‘movie’ ison the way to the worst decadence.”’
‘Whether or not one entirely agrees with this interesting indict_ ment, one must admit that it contains a considerable modicum of
_ truth. For instance, it can scarcely be denied that the atmosphere
of a theatre encourages an attitude of passivity; the mind becomes
_ a mere blank recorder of events flashed onthescreen. Sensations
are piled upon one another with such breath-taking rapidity, that
| _ fio proper reaction can occur, and the critical intelligence become
| ~—__ atrophied. In short the mind of the typical movie-addict eventu} __ ally becomes unable to create any fine and lasting images of its own.
Vara: pa _ Even more detrimental than this, is the subject matter of the
|} .—~—«sAVErage motion-picture. One sees exaggerated exhibitions of
| maudlin sentiment; disgusting displays of phallic glorification;
| _ ridiculous romancing about gangsters and thugs; and a general
__——sépropagation of a set of false values. These factors are hurled into
ee 4 plots which are the ne plus ultra of stupidity. They are an insult
____ to human intelligence; they are disastrous for any spirit of true
____ culture, because they destroy all the higher, more sensitive faculties;
_ and they render sterile the real appreciation of true beauty. Anywho has become accustomed to the sensual sinuosities of the
ary actress’s anatomy, cannot see the ethereal loveliness of
ae ’s Madonna. Nor can one to whom the primitive syncopajazz orchestras, is familiar, find enjoyment in a Beethoven
In fact, despite much talk about “the educational
pictures”, their redeeming features are not very
ovide entertainment of a low type, and fill
ywood producers with good hard cash. But
this is enough to vindicate them.
* ree

r
}
we
oe.

c
3
Pat

q
vy,
e +

i a
he a ; * i? sad
‘ 5 se * ae, » 1 cay af * i
; ‘me 4 1s hk, Ss
2 + 4
x , ot i ee Pi + ‘ ys
a ok a oar att ' * yah ey
, im bes Ea 8 ae ie an " aye cre? * ag = , ee y*

this is the beginning of the return to
better times. It will be remembered
that when commodity prices took their
disastrous slide down hill wheat led
the others to the lowest level. Experts
maintain, tor reasons best understood
by experts, that the revival of good
business is somehow wrapped up with
the rise in wheat prices in particular.
Hence this recent mild variety of boom
has been thought by some to foreshadow
the turning of the corner that so many
supposedly responsible persons have
been prophesying. While the drops
of the last few days will undoubtedly
dampen some hopes it is by no mean
certain that they are to be entirely
shattered. There has been a net rise
in wheat prices, and in other commcdities. The monthly ‘“‘commodity index
numbers”’ show a three per cent rise
tor October in the general price level.
The New York Times, at any rate,
feels safe in stating that the turn for the
better in the financial situation is now beyond dispute. Economic forecasting in
these times has proved itselfa dangerous
pastime even for the best mformed,
and many a would-be prophet has had
his fingers burned by telling about
something that did not come to be.
Still we may hope, and it would appear
from the consensus of opinion that our
hopes will not be entirely misplaced if
fastened to these recent price movements.

—

France and French Policy.

Amid the expressions of approval
that last July greeted the Hoover
moratorium proposal there was one
discordant note. Rightly or wrongly
public condemnation, on this side of
the water at least, fastened upon the
French objections and called to mind
the past part of France in the international relations which should lead to
amity and accord. While the representatives of other states hurried about
in a frantic effort to secure a settlement
the adamantine attitude of the French
Government spoiled the all-important
psychological. effect of the scheme.
When three weeks later the solution
came with some measure of French
concession the harm was done, And so
with this display of alleged ‘‘dog-in-themangerism’’ came the memory of
French sins of these last twelve years.
The high-handedness of her dealings
in spite of professions of another spirit,
her uncharitable treatment of the vanquished, her stubborn tenaciousness
to what she calls her rights of treaty
and reparation, her militaristic policy|

in political dealings and her attitude’

toward disarmament, all these and more

combine to give basis to the accusation

that today she stands against the world,,

the greatest national deterrent to international cooperation in the interests

of world peace.

In the multitude of explanations for
French foreign policy two things stand
out. There is firstly the memory,
seared into the soul of a people of the
years of warfare, and consequent upon
that an abiding resolution that French
territory will not be subject to the like
again. To gain that security France
will stop at nothing. Secondly, to
give force to the intention, there is the
enormous advance in French prestige
and power. The War transferred the
seat of military power from Berlin
ta Paris. France towers above the
nations of Europe, dominant in her
military strength. By virtue of her
internal economic stability, her relative
economic strength, and her financial
power available at the moment, she
has taken the lead in international
affairs from a shaken Britain. France
now holds the whip hand and the criticism directed against her is that she
uses the whip to promote her own interests, policies selfish and short-sighted
to an utter disregard of what like policies
have done for nations in the past and
will indubitably, if continued, do for
nations and the whole of civilization in
the future.

It is no excuse to say that other
states would do likewise in the circumstances. It if no excuse for a rule or
ruin policy to say that she has the
power to pursue that policy and temporarily get away with it. It is no excuse
to rely on revenge. French policy
is now, and has been in the immediate
past when she had less power, directed
into channels conclusively proved bad
for the peace and order of civilization.
On this she relies for her future security.
France could ameliorate her policy te
something more than a pretence cf cooperation, without totally abandoning
these dangerous and archaic weapons
which the world is not yet civilized
enough to abandon safely. Because
she has the power she has it devolves
upon France to make the first step.in the
direction of organized international
society. Because she cannot for the
moment be compelled to do so the duty
upon her is all the greater. It will require some such action, and that at the
coming Disarmament Conference, and
not the apologies of apologists, to vindicate French policy in the eyes of other
nations,

——_—_—S—

A week has passed, and not a joke
on the Freshettes; but perhaps this
one will pass. /

Prof. Macdonald met some Freshettes
coming up to Commerce I, and, as
Prof. Ells was away, he told them there
wouldn't be any class, Whereupon Peg
Allen retorted—‘Say—you take Commerce, don’t you? Where's this “Big
Jim” person? Why doesn’t he take
the class anyway?”

~

 

The Library—Pro and Con.

A glance at the time table of the
MacDonald Memorial Library encounters two conditions that arouse
us to criticism. First, the library is
not open on Saturday nights and second
the evening period is from 7.30 o'clock
until only $45 o'clock, a period of
little over twohours. During the past
few years, and especially during the
one just gone by, the library has been
the object of so much condemnation,
some times deserved, often 1]l-considered, that to resurrect the subject is
almost’ to incur the stigma of idly
worrying an offensively old bone,
Nevertheless we are venturing to point
out that, now with examinations posted,
and the contest drawing rear, it is
time for the library to resume its Saturday night sessions.

In respect to the two hours anda
quarter evening reading period we
feel a bit more strongly. Two hours
and a quarter are inadequate and unsatisfying. In the first place the
period does not in itself provide sufficient time for what the average student
considers an evening's work. In the
second place it so breaks up the evening
as to make it impractical to supplement
the library reading hours by a resummation of study at home. Such an argument may leok rather childish on the
face of it; but it is a real argument
nevertheless. Only afew superhuman
prodigees do not know from experience
that an evening of broken study is.an
evening of unsatisfactory study; that
the chief difficulty in any task is getting
settled to it or taking it up again when
once it has been interrupted.

On the other hand we wish to congratulate the library authorities on the
steps they have taken to ensure the
timely return of books. To impute
childishness to this move is to urge an
argument that refutes itself. The inconsideration and carelessness demonstrated in the past by particular students who retained much demanded
volumes beyond the time permitted
has been a source of very great inconvenience and annoyance to the rest of
the student body. We think that it
must have been in a circulating library
that Burns got the inspiration for his
immortal lines,

““Man’s inhumanity to man

Makes countless thousands mourn”

The fines imposed, of ten cents each
day late for ‘‘over-night’’ and five
cents each day late of. “‘two-weeks”’
ought to prove very efficient instruments for obtaining punctuality. Well
done Librarians!

Examinations.

To the usual inconvenience in writing Christmas examinations will this
year be added the inconvenience of
writing them in the class room chairs
instead of at the benches of gymnasium
memory. Some one asked, in this
regard, what the Archives building
was on the Campus for anyway. We
started to tell him in lieu of a better
explanation, that it was there in an orna
mental capacity, but just in time we
remembered Archie. and something
about an architectural montrcsity and
we held our peace. There are more
than one fairly capacious rooms in the
Archives building, we have since
learned on good authority, and a building that has no claim to beauty ought
to be. made do something to justify
its existence besides guarding the
sacred relics. However, there’s one
thing to be thankful for; those temperamental souls who used to establish
themselves at one end of a bench and
convert it into a see-saw will be harmlessthis year. Asa precaution, though,
we suggest to Lester that he fasten
down the chairs that the same
neurotics in pursuance of their quaint
hobbies cannot conyert them into
rocking chairs.

SO

A Bulletin Service.

Commencing with the next issue the
GAZETTE willrun on the back page a
bulletin column in which notices of ail
organizations in Dalhousie and King’s
wil: appear. This column is open to ali
organizations that care to take advantage of it, whether they are organizations officially recognized or not.
The cooperation of class societies,
faculty societies, fraternities and sororities is particularly requested. Will
the secretaries of these various bodies
please take note, and, by sending in
notices, promptly and regularly, contribute to the utility of the column?

Such notices may be handed or tele-’

phoned to any member of the Gazette
staff or mailed to WM. MACNAB &
SON, BEDFORD ROW in care of the
GAZETTE. It is hoped that the
different organizations will get into the
habit of using this bulletin for their
announcements and that the student
body will find it convenient for reference,

Ben Rogers breezed in on Pine Hill
last week and started classes at Dal.
Although many college students are
fully convinced that the term is too
long, few have ventured to give such
forcible expression to their convictions
as Ben. It meansa hard grind between
now and Xmas but Ben is quite equal
o the task.

ie 4 mip ary . at

FROM OUR
CONTEMPORARIES

The House of Want.
Radio Debate.
The C. O. T. C. Abroad.
The Magazine Tariff.

 

The House of Want.

That Canada should adopt unemployment insurance was the opinion
of Tom Moore of the American Federation of Labour speaking in Montreal,
according to the McGill Daily. The
so-called ‘direct relief’ of the government is humiliating to the honest
worker. If private enterprise is unable to secure work then the government must step in with unemployment insurance. About one in twenty
is unemployed in Canada _ today.
Evidently it is only a matter of time
before hungry men will walk past
full warehouses without breaking into
them. Mr. Moore doubtless knows
what he is talking about. To the
average undergraduate who lives in
comparative luxury this seamier side
of life is more or less unknown. But
if he had to beat the streets for weeks
looking for a job he would soon become aware of the increasing. resentment of the House of Want against
the House of Have.

Radio Debate.

A radio debate between Oxford and
Harvard Universities will take place
next month. Two Oxford students
in London and two Harvard students
in New York will debate the subject:
‘Resolved, that in the interests of
world prosperity the War debts be
cancelled,”” The cost of transmission
and rebroadcast in England and America will be about $35,000, paid
jointly by BBC and NBC. The chief
reason for this latest hands-across-thesea stunt seems to be that it is something new, the all-important motive
to bored moderns.

The C. O. T. C. Abroad.

If Canadian undergraduate newspapers have their way that harmless
juvenile institution, the C, O. T. C.
will soon be at rest in the limbo of
unappreciated heroes. Clergymen
commonly stress the fact that it is
difficult to be a Christian; still more
so is it to bea member of the C. O. T. C.
when all and sundry take pot shots
at any member who lifts his tremulous
head in pretest. It is interesting to
note the rapid growth of peace sentiment in the last six months, possibly
due to hard times and its association
with the war. The Queen’s Journal!
appears to be a stronghold of militarism; its principal Dr. Fyfe defends
the C. O. T. C. on the ground that it
is not a_mulitaristic organization,
members take no obligation to fight,
its existence is no more strange than
eminent and prominent soldiers advocating disarmament. The Queen’s
contigent increased from 80 to 300 this
year. The Argosy (Mount Allison)
asks: ‘‘Is it not time that we abolish
the Corps and such relics of an age
which has left so black a stain on the
escutcheon of civilization as that of the
Great War?” The thunderous Var
November 18th, 1931

  
 

PORTRAITS
AND

CARICATURES

  
  

ARTHUR SIDNEY PATTILLO,
D. D.

Art is one of those strong silent men
whom it is very difficult to describe,
because his reserved nature prevents
him from making friends easily. He
is noted for his athletic ability, particularly in Rugby and _baseballthrowing, and will go down in history
as the man who knocked down Tiny
Herman with one blow and scored a
touch against the Wanderers. That
game is one worth remembering:
Art had been ploughed in a supp
in Bib. Lit. and Murray refused to let
him play; but our hero promised
faithfully not to let wine, women, and
song interfere with his scholastic
activities, so Murray relented, Art’s
dancing is not very good, which
probably accounts for the look of grim
concentration with which he dances.
He spent the summer selling the
Halifax Herald on the corner of Water
Street and Tower Road, making
$27.50, expenses included, which sum
he immediately handed over to the
University for a course in Fine Arts.
He is president of Phi Rho Sigma anda
staunch supporter of the Dalhousie
Choral Society. We wish him just
oodles of success in his career in
Fisheries and trust his motto “Art for
Art’s sake,”’ will lead him on to higher
and better things,

sity (University of Toronto) had
interviews with students and published
an ardent editorial which pleads that
the C, O. T. C. is a beam in the eye or
the university which must be cast out
before the mote of disarmament and
world peace is tackled. ‘‘Can we
preach our cause.,.,and at the same
time ignore the fact that within fifty
yards of us, instructors are constantly
teaching the art of war?’® Sir Arthur
Currie, Principal of McGill says:
“Our C, O. T. C. isa corps where future
officers are trained, so that if we are
unfortunate enough to have to fight,
we shall have trained men. It is
military but it 1s nota militaristic
institution.” The Daily of this University also expressed the idea that
this training was necessary though
deariemene was heartily to be favoured.

The Magazine Tariff.

The almost prohibitive duty on
certain foreign magazines of a standard which are rivalled nowhere else
and certainly cannot be in Canada
for many years, is the subject of protest in the McGill Daily. One of the
aims of the tariff was to exclude magazines of the well-known pornographic
Several of such are now published ir
Canada. Cultural periodicals are now
practically excluded. This seems like
a misdirected sort of patriotism, aamouting to an embargo on knowledge.
When a high tariff is placed on a news ©
magazine like ‘“Time,’’ or on similar
reviews which have no countertype
in this country it seems that the

tariff has miserably failed in its object.

 

Shanes Mens Wear

ie A Shop offers

Definitely Beller Overcoat

Whatever is new, smart
correct is here,- - - with
prices lower than ever

before, but

price isn’t everything- style, trim, pattern and
quality count for more

-- when one
wear

Good Clothes -- Reasonably Priced

then again

wants long

 

Shanes Mens Wear

30 spring $NOP Garden pa.

 

 

 

Discount of ten per cent. to Students 2

 

 
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
    
   
   
 
    
   
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  

 

ok
A mame

___ Jack Crowe, leader of the Liberal
_ party, was the victim of what he
_ describes as ‘‘a most despicable crime”’
: Monday evening, when he was
napped by his political rivals on
_ the eve of the opening of Mock Parliament and taken for a ride by his
bductorsin acarto Bedford. Following a fierce struggle, Crowe eluded his
_ aptors and made a dramatic entry
SY Si ne the House, where he appealed to
the Speaker for justice. Crowe has
issued a statement for the press, which
aa) gives the harrowing details of the
____ erime, and which will be published in
_ the next issue of the King’s Record.

Peay icy The largest and most enthusiastic
meeting of the Haliburton Club to
-—- date -=was held last Saturday evening
. in the Haliburton Room, upwards of
fifty members being in attendance.
_ The entertainment for the evening
__-was furnished by the Secretary, Harry
Dysart, who read a paper on “John
_ Masefield;’’ by Doug Smith, whose
paper on Jim Tully was greatly enjoy— ed, and by Vic Regan, Coe Lodge,
_ Chester Drover, and Jack Davies, who
supplied the musical notes. The next
- ‘meeting of the Club will be held two
__-weeks hence.

. re

_ Len Tilley and Bill Hart are favorites to win the Badminton tournament
which has been proceeding for the past
three weeks. Tilley and Hart have
so far reached the quarter-finals, along
with Allan Findlay, Jock Kent, and
Miss Rosie Lyons.

Shirreff Hali co-eds have secured
the use of the King’s gym for bad-minton periods every Monday evening, and a iarge number are availing
‘themselves of the opportunity to play
-onthatevening. Miss Florence Harris
gives necessary instructions to begin_ ners.

King’s College Co-eds held a reception at Alexandra Hall for several of
the men students last Thursday evening in the form of a bridge party.
‘Prizes were won as follows: First,
ladies, Cecily Kirby, second, Winnie
~~ §cott; first men’s, Charlie Tapley,
' —— gecond, Doug Haviland; consolation,
a __. ‘Miss Kaye Tilton. .

~~. At @ meeting of the King’s Coilege
he ‘student body, it was decided that the
ss ‘mext Student Body Dance would be
_ ‘held in the Haliburton and Faculty
——s ‘Rooms on Thursday night next. As
.  ——«soit’:swill be the last dance before the
_ Christmas vacation, it is expected that
«it ~wikh be largely attended. The
- ¢ommittee in charge is as follows:
- $tavert Tanton, Chairman, Ray Smith,
_- Doug. Smith, Allan Findlay.

King’s will again compete in the
Halifax Intercollegiate hockey league,
ee. ot ‘along with Dalhousie, St. Mary's, and
bere, artes avasSentia Tech, having made their
formal entry at the league meeting
a ety ? ast Thursday night. The manager
of the team, Roy Phillips, is making
_- preparations for the season, and the
team wili work out at the Forum on
‘ - Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday of
Pe + Rach week. :

ee

ah es
‘

*
Ai

- ——s King’s football players have hung up
_- their shoes and turned in their gear for

| =—S—“«sSee:«seasonn, butt while their activities
'_ on the gridiron have been brought to a
re Ep close, fitting recognition of the team's
‘highly successful year will be tendered
— @t_ a banquet in their honor. The
‘banquet is being given by the Alumni
of Ring's at the Lord Ne:son within
the next week. During the season
just closed, the King’s team has onlv
. 2 games, both to Acadia, and won
7, the last victory over Wanderers
‘Intermediates giving them the cham‘pionship of the Hatifax Intermediate
[ ue for the second year in succession. Games played this season
have resulted in 3 victories over Nova
‘Scotia Tech, and one each over Wanderers, Acadia, Dalhousie and United

_ Services.

: ~~”


Bests “
es
| ——Ss Messrs. Cos. Brittain and Bill Hart
have taken over the Varsity store,
. ‘ -__ property and goodwill of the proprietor,
me tl" iDoag Smith, and will operate on an
| a, even larger scale than formerly, In
b ‘a lengthy notice, the new proprictors
)  —-—_s*iAhave appealed to King’s students for
__. substantial support.

i
ieee ‘a
mes. 7 :
jag
: i
i
sp
al +
i i
| ee

 

Pine Hill N
Pine Hi otes
i i A 5 ——————
. 4 “Father”? Andrews resents very much
- a headline which appeared in a recent
_ ___ issue of the Gazette: ‘‘Campus Queen
‘Missing—Elopes in Father's Pants.’
_ Pather’’ wishes it made known through
this column that he doesn’t even know
_ ‘Aggie McSnort. Those responsible for
_ this embarassing error are expected

_ to make correction.
eS A oa _ The billiard table has been re-covered
am, he Tuesday the 10th saw play official
a,
-%

opened, In former years such
I Becre pa Hank, Roy, Ike and Sayre
ihave shown the uninitiated how.
‘This year, however, two new-comers
to the game, Mr. Newman and Mr.
Duman have eclipsed even the most
'_—_—s worthy efforts of these former champ
aed

re papne.g the cue. .

ve Fe Gordon Elkin has disposed of his

pen air taxi and once again the boys
are getting to class on time. 1}
everence which ‘this remarkable vehicle
ec mmanded at Pine Hill was surpassed
_ ‘only by the’esteem in which it was held
_ by a couple of Shirreff Hail girls.

some ple brutal. Can
sone, Fe

7
a
f
t

>.
A

y with murder in their hearts

a poor innocent mouse nround

‘ey

f ie
+, PET
a vis a |
iy ‘ ff “ 2 _

tamara) «8 ea
J iy id a
772 De a ai aah ‘

‘’ ‘ e , a , i 4
v f wt ' ‘3 rh, wy

\ Mie”. : * iT if a Sia fy

a

te |

.- f
<

A To L At heal «5 a” ae ee 1 Py
es a, ae rr a re ay
& a8 a *, Mae gh i haf ; Praeee:
a el nts J ‘a :
ae te
ee
ys, i
wa :
ae ae: od
k ie! rs
ovember 18th, 1981
c MANION Boney)
J tae Sits ole im oe mk . ‘ee. f > T » - AE St tebe" Sm eeeeg 1) mead &
J is fe rhe feat <n i P asi iEs
- UR
“St bt i eo e e P
Sie) .

curiosity, something to be gaped

The}

raser and Marion)

a4 et al fs
Pay) ; — ry
$ — Teuihy .’ ‘ z ‘

* , 4

Modern Languages

Their Importance in Life
of 20th Century

The relationship of modern languages

to better understanding among the
nations is becoming more widely recognized today. The study of foreign
languages, especially of French, German
and Spanish, should form as important
a part of the undergraduate curriculum
as does the study of philosophy or
science, Nevertheless, it is deplorable
that so little is done to emphasize the
most important side of this study;
namely, the ability to speak these
languages. How many teachers in the
High schools of Canada ever conduct
conversational groups: in French or
German- A very few indeed! And
the unfortunate part of it is that these
teachers are not able to speak the language themselves. In most cases they
can quote to you any obscure rule of
syntax, and probably apply this rule
correctly in the case of the written
language. Butspeakit? Many a teacher would consider such a suggestion
quite useless.
_ In Canada, a bi-lingual country, the
importance of having a thorough knowledge of French is unquestioned. In
politics, in diplomacy, in business it is
indispensible to the ambitious man or
woman. Moreover, in the acquirement
of an additional language one increases
very greatly one’s knowledge of English,
thereby gaining a deeper understanding
of one’s own literature. But unless it
is the living spoken language which is
acquired, the benefit gained will not
be nearly so great. Sir Wilfred Laurier
who was an orator, of fame in both
French and English, once made a slip
which nearly brought about his politica]
downfall. In speaking before an English
audience he translated the French word
“etranger’’ as ‘‘foreigner’’, and in this
sense applied it to an outstanding
Englishman, The translation Sir Wilfred had intended was “‘stranger”’,
which has of course an entirely different
meaning. In spite of the fact that he
corrected his error at once, considerable
feeling was aroused and his popularity
was seriously affected. From _ this
example one can grasp the dangers that
lurk in the handling of international
affairs by representatives who are not
thoroughly acquainted with the languages of those countries with whom
they have to deal. |

The Radio is doing much to promote
international good-will but its greatest
value will not be manifest until the
average broadcast listener of one country will be able to understand a foreigner speaking in hisown tongue. Today
when the twirl of a dial will bring into
the home the languages of six or seven
nations, how much greater becomes the
desire to understand the spoken word.
Eventually the German or the Frenchman will no longer be looked upon as a
at
and treated with suspicion. With the
breaking down of the barrier of language difference, he will become a much
sought after individual. The mutual
exchange of ideas will make possible a
better understanding of human nature,
and a realization of the true purpose of
the Christian religion will be the result. So let us apply ourselves to the
study of these languages; and where it
is impossible or difficult to learn to
speak them in the class room, let us
take a greater part in the various
modern language societies.

Dalhousie is fortunate in having a
French Club which, under the energetic
direction of an able Professor, bids
fair to surpass in numbers and usefulness any other such organization in
the Maritimes. Its members are overcoming their fear of ridicule in speaking
French, because everybody tries to
speak it, and he who does not is the
exception. French is being made a
living language at this University .
It is through the efforts of such organi-|
zations that much many be done to
promote better understanding among
the nations, and as a result the attainment of world peace.

C. F. Fraser.

uskand Old
Japan

 

‘Over the purple sea the night wind calls,
And through the frosted almond trees
The subtle perfume falls,

Of lotus buds and pungent musk,

Oh, Beauteous summer breeze,

Of ald Japan and dusk.

Oh, ety barge on pale moon silver
tide

Drift on through silent magic seas,

Bring Romance to my side,

Oh, Endless, unknown caravan

Of drifting phantasies,

Of dusk and old Japan.

Within the garden’s silent, velvet
shade,

‘Beyond the temple’s aged wall

Within the sacred glade,

Beneath the pearl flecked lover’s sky

In tones that hush the night birds’ call,

She sings a lullaby.

From out the night I hear her softly
sing,

Her voice blends with the pale, cool
moon,

And lilies whispering

And subtle musie from above

To blend into the tune |

Of Old Japan and Love,

d’ Hanteville.

— or Om

Ted Dorman, (and she won t answer.
to the name of Liddy) has returned from
Fredericton and is heaving many a

‘Cy”’ for her three missing teeth.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

OBSERVER’S

Column

 

The Elkin sweep-stakes, which netted
some fifty dollars was won by Vi
Oland and Pine-Hillers are again
walking the old railroad tracks. Truly
Fate is unjust. But last week we saw
Gordie in serious conversation with
Vic, and afterwards we learned that
he had almost persuaded the winner
to sell the car back for two dollars.
There’s real business for you.

The football boys and all the
managers, assistant managers and subass't managers had a rare trip to the
Island. Art Sutherland discovered a
charming young woman, but,—well, if
you want to hear that one you’d better
ask someone else (we'd suggest Art
Pattillo). The boys all played golf
one morning, with four sets of clubs
between them, Danny Sutherland was
the star player, especially when he
lost four Kro-flites in five minutes.
There was a party too, but somehow
some of the boys couldn’t manage to
make it. ; ;

On the train between Borden and
Charlottetown, they borrowed a guitar
from a Salvation Army lass and staged
a concert— Doug Murray, soloist. After
a programme of request numbers from
the passengers, they took upa collection
and returned the guitar.

 

Martha Kenistor had a problem on
her hands when she had to decide how
she covld attend fotr parties mn tw
days. She called in Ruth Crandal
and Betty March to assist her, at the
same time informing them that she'd
better make the most of her first year,
because, so far as she could judge, nome
seemed to set the change afterwards.
Then she wondered why the atmosphere
became cool.

 

Gordon Cooper led the '31 Commerce
Class, but even yet he can’t see through
the good old puzzle—“‘If a fish weighs
nine pounds plus half its own weight—
how much does it weigh? However,
you try it too. Prof. Smith’s intelligence tests have nothing on that-one.
Watch for another good one next week.

 

John Fisher's organized sight-seeing
and slumming tours are likely to rival
Toshie’s famous Geology walks. All
those who would like to join in on these
hikes are asked to hand in their names
to ‘‘Enterprise,’’ Fisher. Delphine
Wallace has already signed.

Alone

Each purple shade across the star
flung sky

 

Each whisper of the wind’s weird

lullaby
Is echoing age old haunting cry
Alone....
Alone....
Environ of a long known destiny
Tear sodden wraiths of lonliness for me
we mark a fate that I shall always
e
Alone....
de Hauteville.

 

Vic|C

 

  

The Editor,
The Dlahousie Gazette.
Dear Sir:—
I have felt constrained to answer
your scathing editoral comment on the
athe bE.

_I hope that this article will be
given as much prominence as your own.
Yours truly,
J. Flint Cahan,

Ie. C., Of 'T.. C.
COUNTERATTACKS.

Some rebuttal must surely be made
to the uncalled for editoral assult made
on the C. O. T. C. in the November
12th issue of the Dalhousie Gazette.
The writer of that editorial undoubtedly believes that all military organizations should be banished, and that any
person who openly approves of disarmament, and is slso a member of
any such body, is a hypocrite. I
shall attempt to refute these opinions.

War is a policy cf government.
As one of Britians greatest soldiers
recently remarked, ‘‘War is carsed by
politicians, nct by soldiers.”

Military trairirg has been considered essential by all the great
nat.ons which the world has ever seen,
Why? A hundred years ago, the
answer would have been, ‘‘To conquer
new lands, and repel invasions.” By
invasions | mean not only territorial
encroachments; but also intrusions on
the rights, privileges and liberties of
any Class cf people.

The purpcese cf military trairirg
tuday is to irstill the habit cf discipline into the sing gereration.
More than that, to refer again t

General Allenby, it makes an organized
body out of a disorderly rabble. It is
impossible to effect advances and reforms, and this is especially true in
democratic countries, without effective
organization. Everyone will agree that

 

 

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments
and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

 

,

phinney?

RADIO~
COLUMN

  
    

In The Evening |i You Can Be

For evening refreshment,
choose The Green Lantern.
All foods, drinks and Ice
Cream are the best quality
and moderately priced.

The Green Lantern

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

21 Spring Garden Road

 

The

Fall Society Brand

styles are advanced, correct and

distinguished.

rich, strong and exclusive.
workmanship isthe last word in
quality and expertness, and includes exclusive tailoring features
like the SNUG-EASE SHOULDER
and the VAC BLOC ARMHOLE

You obtain greater value

Brand Clothes than in any other make we know of

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

439 BARRINGTON STREET.
—Its the cut of your clothes that counis—

Happy Too

If you make ita rule to
get your athletic and
sports eauipment

at PHINNEY’S

Ask for your copy of
SPALDING’S
SPORTS CATALOG

  

=
456-460 BARRINGTON ST:

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

New

The woolens are

The

for your dollar in Society

 

vue

 

The Student Forum

A Column devoted to Comment and Controversy

 

another war.

 

the British Army is the most efficient

body in the werld today. Military
training teaches the habits of cleanliness and physical well-being. God
knows we need them! It, gives the
lowest private a sense of responsibility
by showing him that everyone has a
place in the community, and owes an
obligation to it. It teaches tolerance
and good-will towards one’s fellow men,
and a respect for King and Country.

In regards to Officer’s Training Corps
in particular, military training teaches
men how to lead others, howto
organize, It teaches clear thinking,
and shows men how to make decisions
quickly and efficiently. Surely these
qualities are necessary in those who
will soon be leaders in every walk of
ife,

I venture to say that there is not
an officer in any military or naval
unit in Canada today who hopes for
When every statesman
is possessed of all those qualities
which I have ovtlined above, the world
will be safe for peace.

mI

ae

   

———

 

Page Three

Introspection

A usual storm rages without.
And I,

With neither shelter nor conscience
Wander about in this world forlorn
Ah—to be able to recline in silent state,
And mere thoughts bring biddings,
Alas—I am destined

To plunge ahead into the turmoil of life
With Fate my guide,

 

A depressed mind offers no consolation

Too shy to bleed the contents of my
heart

To one who may laugh,

I retain my emotions;

And impatiently await expressions
freeing me from the state.

Then to rejoice and make bliss.
Stepped
Only in repetition of the foregoing,

And a continuation of a cycle of life;

 

Until—one blots out the other.

Then a dull or joyous life,

With death the finale;

Consuming another of its proteges,
.D.

N.G.

— +--e—___.

Aggie McSnort’s devoted lover was

among those present at the Shirreff
Hall Dance, but alas not with Aggie.

1 WAT
i)

On top with

Depend on it... Turrets
come out on top...
there’s such quality and
compelling flavour in
every cigarette.

Mild and Fraqrant

urret

CIGARETTES

 

  

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.
Write °r call for Calendar or advice.

     

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

Leather Goods

Trunks
Bags and Luggage of

Portfolios,

all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

  
 

YELLOW CAE

LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours

Two travel for same as one,

More than two, 20 cents extra.

Covers up to six. |

 

im

   

 

BIRK

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 
Ng
t

'

ey
=!
Ear

bh.

_ set by

\. F mL ¢
Bases (7 Me picues ¢ 7

 

 

| Ground Hockey

i.e
an
7 +
eal
ttt
yey
i .

 

“Thursday Nov. 12th at 4.30 on the
Studley Field some of the former

Halifax Ladies’ College girls now at

match

Dal. played a groun
team.

i
j resent H. L. C.

against the
The “Old girls’’ were not remarkable

for their members so many were the
gaps filled in by spares of the other
team. However, it was a good match
considering one-third of the ‘‘old girls’
team’’ had not. played for three or four
years. Those who made oP this team
were—F. Hewat, S. Winfield, R. Macaulay, L, Dumousque, E. Elliot.
There were two forty minute periods
with five minutes time off. Three
goals were scored in the first half by
the present H. L.C. team. The street
lights went on and still the game went
on—no more goals were shot—By this
time it was more or less difficult to
distinguish between ball and ground,
and with resounding cheers for each
others prowess the two teams left the
field to the undisputed possession of
the Great Dane who formed a most
active “‘rooter’’ for the Dal team.

 

| Political Debate

 

: (Continued from page 1)

bron. Mr. Oxley (Lib.), reminded
House of pre-election promises. If
pledges be hurled about it is not incon
_sigtent to ask that they be fulfilled.
Government must realize there are great

mén on both sides capable or offering
suggestions. Not against Statute in
principle, but cannot see how its pre
sent administration can gain support
of! clear thinking men.

At Special
Session $20,000,000 granted with carte
nche authority. Tories hoped to
get more aseasily asthat. Mr. Bennet
wanted a blank cheque to allow Governor-in-Council to spend any amount.
nit of expenditure should have been
Parliament but Tories would not

This the most diabolical attempt to foist political patronage on
his country since Confederation. Sec
 
 
 
 
 

H r, Grant (Con.) Opposition

thing so much as their lack

= eho ll! so much as
of} knowledge of the program. Had

   
    

  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

ested no alternative remedy, Unhpiocyment is chief issue confronting
every nation excepting France. Cana‘da is in better position than most and
bound to come out of the difficulty.
© face the situation Government
wers from Parliament.
oard set up with initia!
O00,000 grant and has proved of
reat assistance to farmers, particularyiin the West. By tarifi policy and
fins in duties has kept 350,000 Cana
 

  

dians in employment. Relief essentially a matter for province and munici
ality but in national emergency Dominion was willing to step in and aid.
Opposition mistaken in weak municipalities argument. There is special
provision to vary proportion of cost
where municipality too weak to bear
its share. Where Dominion has jurisdiction over public work it pays 100%.
It pays 40% of ordinary highway improvement—a purely provincial matter
—50% for the Trans-Canada Highway.
Where work in contro! of municipality,
e. g. sewers, streets, etc., Dominion
pays 25%. Provision for direct relief
for those unable to work to which
Dominion contributes 1-3. Impossible
in a measure of such proportions that
there should not be some partizanship
and corruption among minor officials.
Act contains a penal clause to deal
with such maladministration. Maladministration has been held down to
very small proportion and is not
general as Opposition suggests.

Mr. Donahoe and Mr. Finlayson
then engaged in sharp dispute as to the
burden on the Opposition to produce
an alternative program.

Mr. Stewart (Con.) called on Mr.

Finlayson to read specific accusations
of maladministration.
._ Mr. Finlayson quoted from speech
of Hon. Mr. Veniot in last session
stating certain charges in New Brunswick, Read certain affidavits contained in that speech.

Mr. Stewart. A Royal Commission
was appointed to enquire into these
charges and found them false. How
can this scheme be diabolical or “fnot
in best interests’ when it 1s the only
one ever put into practice in this
country. Plan of administration being
used is only one constitutionally. pos
sible. Dominion Government cannot
encroach upon powers of province and
municipality. Opposition fails until

it can demonstrate a better plan which
is possible and _ practicable. Has
totally failed to do so.

Further speakers for the Government
Messrs Donahoe, i; M. MacDonald,
Christie, Nichols, Jost. _ For the Opposition Messrs. R. Oxley, Foster
Dubinsky. Others, notably Mr.
Rosenblum, gave vent to vehement
speeches which could not be heard
bove the general uproar in which the
debate ended.

The party whips showed consider

- able activity a before the division.

The House divided on strict_ party
lines, the vote being: For the Resolujon—24; Against—19. Mr. Speaker

i. he Cooper declared the Resolution carried

 

 

Wanderers
Score Win

Wanderers upset sporting dope Saturday by defeating the crack Caledonia team by a score of 9 to 5 and
won the right to meet U. N. B. in the
final for the McCurdy Cup, emblematic of the rugby championship of
the Maritime Provinces. The game,
which was played at the Wanderers
field, attracted the largest crowd of
the season, and while it was not the
best exhibition of football this season,
was nevertheless exciting for the fans,
the closeness of the score until the
final five minutes holding their interest.

The game was played under fairly
good weather conditions, but with a

igh wind sweeping the field, and
making good running-passing play
virtually impossible. The superiority
of the Red and Black in kicking and
dribbling game them the edge over the
Cape Breton champions, who were
unable to show their real form and
came far below expectations, The
scores were the result of touchdowns,
of which Wanderers made three, and

Caledonia one, which was converted.
At half time the score was 6 to 5, an
the Wanderers lead was increased to
four points when they were made
a gift of a touchdown ten minutes
before the game ended. The Halifax
champions, however, deserved their
win, having the better of the territory
and excelling in dribbling play. The
light Caledonia scrum was more than

a match for the Wanderers in the]

scrimmages, getting out the ball oftener but not being able to take advantage
of it.

Young, Piers, and MacCoy scored
the touches for the Halifax team,
none of which were converted by
Herman, and Tommy Jackson went
over for tae Caledonians, his try being
converted by Nicholson.

 

Swim Girls Swim

The Dalhousie Girls Swimming Club
has started the season with a splash.
Ninety per cent of those signed up
have already paid their fees. Every
Thursday afternoon from 2.15-4.30
‘as many girls as possible go and enjoy
the envigorating waters of the Y. M. C.
A. Swimming pool. The fee of 75 cents
to join the Club enables each girl to
swim all'season as often as she wishes
at the said hours. It is hoped that as
many girls as possible will take advantage of this opportunity. There is no
finer sport. Under the able direction
of Miss Florence Harris there is much
to be learned as well as much to be
enjoyed in the arts of swimming and
diving. With more enthusiasm on the
part of the members an intercollegiate
swimming meet could be arranged with
Acadia and Mount Allison. This is
what Dalhousie needs to extend the
range of girls’ athletics. Come on in—
the water’s fine!

 

  

Friday and Saturday

“POLITICS”

—With—
MARIE DRESSLER
POLLY MORAN

Monday and Tuesday
CONSTANCE BENNETT

—j n—

   

 

        
   
 

  
    
 

  
    
   

“BOUGHT”’
Evenings -- 20 & 30
Matinee 25 Children 10

   

« SPORTS =

GARRICK ||| DAL UNIVERSITY

Cubs Lose
To Acadia

In one of the worst; and probably the
worst, exhibitions of football seen on
the Studley field this year, the Dalhousie rugby season was brought to a
fitting close as Acadia second team
defeated Dalhousie intermediates by
the one-sided score of 13 to 3 on
Saturday afternoon following the Acadia-Dal senior game.

The score certainly indicated the
play. The stiff breeze sweeping the
field made the loosely played game
even more loose, and the spectators,
perhaps 25 in number, were.not greatly
enthused. Dal appeared to be away
to a good start when Borden Stoddard
plunged over the Acadia line for the
first score near the posts, but he failed
toconvert the try. But Acadia evened
the score five minutes later, when
following up five kicking, they wnet
over for a touch. Play continued in
Dal territory for the remainder of the
first half, but the Dal players were
able to stave off further scoring.

In the second half Acadia added
ten more points to their score, from
two tries which were converted. With
the heavy wind behind them, the
visitors were able to command the
play almost at will, their kicking and
dribbling giving them long gains.
The Acadia scrum was also functioning
well, heeling out the ball practically
every time, and feeding the half line
frequently.

 

Kappa Kappa

(Continued from page 1)

This consisted in a pirate party. The
girls were all dressed in pirate fashion
and the room was decorated to represent a pirate’s ship. The entertainment for the early part of the evening
consisted in a pirate treasure hunt
around the city and back to the room
where the treasure was hidden. During the evening refreshments were
served pirate fashion, fortunes were
told and pirate activities indulged
in. The evening ended with the
guests being made to walk the plank
to their cars.

On Wednesday, November 4th, the
Kappa Kappa Sigmas held their

‘initiation in their sorority room at

167 Spring Garden Road. There were
five girls initiated, namely—Dorothy
Redmond, Jean Church, Jean MacLean, Katherine Moxon and Mary
Duggan. The ceremony was followed
by a formal banquet at the Nova
Scotian Hotel. The President, Mary
Lee McCoubrey, officiated as toastmistress. Toasts were proposed to
the King, by the President, Mary Lee
McCoubrey, to Dalhousie by Irene
Walker, to Alpha Gamma Delta by
Mary Currie and to the new girls by
Marion Moxon. The latter was re
plied to by Dorothy Redmond.

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

   

STORE

We offer big value in
typewriter pads at 20c.
and scratch pads with a
large letter size sheet at
10c.

Our stock also includes
the following useful articles—Bobbie pins, pocket
handkerchiefs, shoe laces,
collar buttons, and chewing tobacco.

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

 

 

Alumnae Tea

(Continued from page 1.)

college opens, they meet sisters, daughters, neices of their old classmates and
wish for them the same measure of
success they have had. In the Spring,
in conjunction with the Alumni Association at a Ball they bid ‘“‘cheerio’’
and “good luck’”’ to thlse who have
received that day their parchment, a
ticket into the world of Medicine,
Law, Commerce—into the world at
large.

Thus, as the University continues
to grow so the Alumnae Association
expands, and as long as the college
stands, it will carry on its good work.

Sigma Delta Pi

 

On Monday Nov. 9th at 7.30, Sigma
Delta Pi Sorority held one of their
initiation ceremonies at 137 Coburg Rd.
the home of Ruth Macaulay, the President. Twelve girls were admitted as
new members into the Sorority—they
were the following—Mary Harris, Mary
Simmonds, Connie Smith, Maureen
Cricleson, Eleanor Soulis, Mona Wallace, Patricia Conn, Merle Purtill,
Cedele Ritchie, Margaret Burris, Marie
Furgeson, and Helen Mackie.

After a most interesting program,
vastly enjoyed by all, refreshments
were served.

Basketball Notice

The first general basketball practice of the year will be held next Wednesday (Nov. 25th.) in St. Mary’s
Gymnasium.

 

 

 

Sophomore Notice

The first sophomore class party of
this year will be held at Shirreff Hall,
Thursday November 19. Joe Mills
and his Orchestra will provide good
dance music so don’t miss this party.
Others than sophomores who wish to
come are cordially welcome.

Gladys Jost.

 

All that is Refined
in Men’s Clothing is Yours
with the Fashion-Craft Label

 

ISTINCTIVE
OVER COATS

that superbly meet the
cold weather essentials of
protection and_ finished
appearance which comfort and fashion demand,

Fashion -Craft

Overcoats
Matchless Values for

$25.00 x,

Comfort at low cost

 

Spats from $1.75
Lined Gloves $1.89
Mufflers from $1.50
Underwear $1.50

Colwell

Brothers
Limited 2
HALIFAX ;*

 

 

3

— ——

November 18th, 1981

 

Lieutenant Defends C.O.T.C.

Mr. T. A. Goudge,
The Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax, N. S.

Dear Sir:—

Your recent editorial referring to the

spirit of militarism fostered by the
a O. T. C, shows, to those of us who
are in a position to know the truth,
that your understanding of this fine
organization is a decidedly minus
quantity. Far from debasing the C.
Q. T. C. in the eyes of the students,
your attempted ridicule has forcibly
brought to our attention your apparent
ignorance on this topic.
_ 1The C. O. T. C. has two aims—the
first of which is by tar the more important. This unit in our midst
desires to train men to be leaders in
our everyday civilization; not with the
idea of making soldiers out of them,
but to make them realize just how
terrible war is, and to urge them to do
all in their power to prevent such a
catastrophe from occurring. The minor aim is to provide a backbone for
the establishment of a defensive force
should the need ever arise. Our
leaders have been ‘‘through the mill’
and any sane minded person can not
help but realize that the attitude of
these men is decidedly pacifistice

By what reasoning you justify your
position one can nardly see. Surely
you do not seriously advocate the
obliteration of Canada’s standing army

FROM THE

WINNERS FRoMT

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game

with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

and the C. O. T. C.? For in committing this fallacy you overlook one
basic fact—a fact which is the stumbling block of the League of Nations.
This old world of ours is not yet ready
for peace; nations are too fraught with
greed, envy and mistrust to permit of
one country discarding all defensive
forces! Mutual co-operation between
ALL nations is absolutely essential
before any one nation dare to lay itself
defenseless to be preyed upon by
whomever may choose to do so.

Your Medak Seid and idealism are
commendable, but under existing circumstances these must be tempered
with plain ordinary horse-sense. Far
from being essentially militaristic, the
C. O. T. C. is wholeheartedly behind
the League of Nations in their efforts
to abolish war. We are not ‘‘playing
soldiers’’ we are moulding the leaders
of tomorrow such that war will be
outcast in the future. Remember
that war is made by POLITICIANS,
NOT SOLDIERS.

A LIEUTENANT.

CASINO

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
November 19-20-21

“Side Show ”

—With—

WINNIE LIGHTNER
CHARLES BUTTERWORTH

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
November 23-24-25

The
DREYFUS CASE

The real facts of the trial
that shook the world.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Cover Charge $1.00

The Lord Nelson Hotel

SUPPER DANCE

9 to 12 p. m.

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
HARRY COCHRANE’S ORCHESTRA

 

   
  

Service A la Carte

Young Mens
Tuxedo Suits

 

é

=

"MARITIMES

 

ON

At The Low
EATON Cash
Price Of

$19.95

There i$ no reason why
every student should not
have a tuxedo when.........
EATON’S are selling them
at this low price! Well
tailored of black barathea
cloth with art satin lining
and silk or satin faced lapels.

Sizes 35 to 42,

-EATON’S Men’s Wear
Department.
Main Floor.

oO
LIMITED |

   

 

 
