   
 
 
    

<A . ; ‘I am going down to Cape Breton,

; f eet entra ana LANS |»: “T am going up to Cape Breton-”’
ye nN Which is correct? According to Murray McMillan when one is up in Halifax
one goes down to Cape Breton; but
when one is down in Halifax one goes
up to Cape Breton. Now the question
resolves itself into deciding when one
is ‘up’ or ‘‘down” in Halifax. The
argument therefore proceeds: if to
start with one is down in Cape Breton,
in Halifax one is ‘‘up,”’ bit if on the
other hand one is originally up in
Cape Breton then one is consequently

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

seen t” ies los = em
Fe Pp inciple of Competition
Yo be Subject.

The N, F..€. U.S. Debate. will be
‘School ‘for the Blind Auditorium.
Dalhousie will uphold the affirmative
sof: the’ resolution ‘‘that the principle
of competition has retarded the pro
f

Ottawa Debater

 

Si

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie®, University °

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 24th, 1932.

| Pine Hill Notes | Fraternity Notes

Delta Tau Fraternity held a most
enjoyable party at their Fraternity
House on Monday evening, February
the 15th. The house was appropriately
decorated for the occasion. About
thirty couples danced to the music of
Yale Brody and his ‘‘Collegians.’
Prof. and Mrs. W. P. Copp and Mr
and Mrs, J..B. Milner were the chaperones, -—

Delta Tau Fraternity entertained as
their guest, over the week-end, Mr
Milan H. Hulbert of Dartmouth
College.

 

   
  
     
  
   
   
    
    
   
    
 
   
    
   
     
      
     
     
   
   
   
      
     
 
   

--——s gress of the world.” _--——S.«- The members of the visiting Central]
Lae) a Canada team, Mr. J: Osmond Matte
“Sider e he. Baer ae University of Ottawa, and

aa 3 pr Br. . r. W.

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  

é Mr J. Garnett of Guelph Agricul‘tural College, are expected to arrive
in the city on Thursday morning and
_ to remain here until Saturday. The
- debate here is the final one of their
schedule.
_ J. Osmond Matte, representative of
- the University of Ottawa, attended
- North Bay Collegiate Institute before
his admission to the University in 1924.
_ He was awarded the medal for highest
* standing in Matriculation in 1927
vee In 1931 he was a member of the Prize
-- Debaters of the University. He obtained the degree in Bachelor of Philos__ ephy last year and in this term writing
4 tae.’ fer L. Ph and B. A. degrees. Mr
-— . Matte is also an athlete of prominence
ae ee ae represented Ottawa University

 
 

. va
é

  

eee e
oa”

 
 

  

  

      

<<

- J, OSMCND MATTE

Si mrs

 

 
 

ee the major sports of Football, Basket- a
ball and Baseball.
~~ W. J. Garnett came to Canada five La ment Ss Lent
es _ years ago, his earlier education being

_ Lassitude

Lent Causes Untold Suffering.

Ash Wednesday has come and gone;
but it brought with it a period of forced
abstinence from candy, cigarettes,
Polar Pies and heavy ‘‘dates ”

What awful consequences have resulted! No longer'do we trip the light
fantastic throughout Studleys Halls;

_ in English Public Schools. In addition
to taking a course at the Ontario] |
Agricultural College he has spent some
-. time in’ British Columbia and in the
_ Northern Ontario Clay Belt. He edit.
ed the college monthly for one year and

tained further experience from a
s journalistic work in Southern
At the end of his second
year he won the Governor
  

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
    
         
       
   
    
     
       
    
  

 
 

 
 
   

ar a scholarship| but rather do we stagger from class to

all-round man. | class with that agonized, starving leok

ent part in inter-|in our eyes. Alas, we ask ourselves,

. ing where he has established | how can we last out? No longer do we

2 reputation for an easy platform ehestay wish each other ‘Good Morn“manner and a thorough acquaintance|ing,’” but with haggard expressions

mutter, ‘‘Kill that guy with a cigarette”
Our clothes hang on us like rags; our
formerly dapper Algy looks like a
sixteen girl in a size 40 suit. Fat, who
has lost about 60 Ibs; swears he must
have been twins before. Even the
Library door sags on its hinges as if in
sympathy.

But grim determination is written on
the faces of all. . ‘*To do or die” shriek
the multitude—and judging from their
appearances they are going to die any
way. As the days increase, so do the
shortness of their tempers.. We shed
a tear for the optimist who offered a
ayates’ to one of these sufferers, and
who met with such a blast of torrid
oratory that he promptly vowed to

with the subjects he discusses.

Julius Rosenblum leader of the
_  * N.E.C. U.S, Team, is a newcomer to
a en Dalhousie debating teams, though not
_—s«sto debating. - He first gave play to his
forensic talent as leader of the Glace
Bay High School Team. He came to
Dal in '28 and completed his Arts
“course in ‘81, affiliating his senior
Te with Law. During his time here

  

   

r. Rosenblum has taken a lively

- interest in Sodales and has frequently
contributed to meetings of the Society
as a speaker from the floor. In past
|. {Ege years he was associated with the
Gazette as contributor and a member of
aes ee This year he is Chairman of the

— _
cee
cy 7

oan

{

 
 

rom 4

  

‘ staff,
Maccabaean Society Book Fund. He

 

dae = 3 4 -| join Pine Hill and try to reform such
a Te sigan o member of a empha Shy Fvaeer: reprobates. And as he departed, such
| ‘nity and has played on interfaculty aint
_| © © football and. soft-ball teanis words rang in his ears as to know that
Re ar ; he was being consigned to the place
ee eb nd (Continued on page 4) where a snowball hasn’t a chance.
i But most pitiful of all was the sight
Caley of P. P. Atwood sobbing hysterically
x a : behind the counter. ‘‘Ah! Woe is me,”
nate To Lead Dal Jeam he wailed, “‘my business is ruined, my
Vv ‘ overhead is going up, my sales are
a s goind down and so is my face _ I sell

 
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   

only 1 doz. Polar Pies a day instead of
15 doz. I sell no candy, no chocolate
bars. My stocks of chewing tobacco
ate enormous.”’ In fact, poor old Roy
a quite upset, and when we left him
he was penning a very vituperative
letter to His Royal Highness, Pope
Peter Pan the thoity-thoid, asking for
a special dispensation and Government
Grant for the relief of storekeepers
ditch-diggers and Shirreff Hall Freshettes. Cheer up folks, only three more
weeks!

———>_ +e

CLASS MEETING.

The Senior Class held a meeting in

Room 4 of the Arts Building on Thursday, February 18th for the purpose of
electing a valedictorian and two class
prophets. The president Lou Christie
was in the chair. Bob Brown who was
recently awarded the Malcolm Honor
ay was elected Valedictorian.
Hebb and Arthur Ormiston are the
class prophets. Two members, Burns
Adams and Helen Champion were
then nominated to represent the Class
in the Bennett Shield Debate.

Kay

1
|

dilemna with his usual acumen by

of the Dr’s. popular articles in the

dance, sponsored by the Students,

  
 

ress - Optional! (Medical B

“down” in Halifax. And so there you
have it all in a nutshell. Herbie
Stewart would no doubt solve the

The annual Initiation week of Phi
Rho Sigma was held last week on
Thursday afternoon, the formal initiation took place in one of the Club
rooms of the Nova Scotian. An impressive ceremony which was followed
by a banquet. The ten new Initiates
were welcomed by the Honcrary mem| bers of the Fraternity and were vrged to
,lend every support to their chapter
| Friday evening, Jimmy Sadler provided
the m'tsic for their Annval Ball at the
same Hotel Qraint favours were
given late in the evenirg.

remarking that one should go neither
up nor down to Cape Breton.

Dr. E. W. Nichols addressed the
Theological Society Friday evening on
the subject, ‘‘The Layman and Theology.‘" The address had all the merits

Dalhousie Review.

The riddle in vogue at the Hill is:
What is the difference between Pine
Hill and Pine Hillers? The answer
is not without its humour to those who
understand:.Oh! a mere revue. Thus
heresy meets the inquisition and
perisheth.

NOTICE.

Applications will be received by the
Secretary from those who are interested
in representing Dalhorsie at the coming
Model Assembly of the Leagve o
Nations held at University of New
Brunswick, Fredericton, March 9th
and 10th Applications should be
addressed: J. B. McEvoy, Secretary,
League of Nations, Dalhousie and be
left at the office of Professor R. A,
Mackay, Arts Building, Studley.

Bill Pace, Perch Sheppard and Bob
Braine have been laid up with the flu.
Harry Clarke is around again. after
his recent operation for appendicitis.
Russell McSween has recovered from
a bad toothache.

Med. Banquet

 

 

Alpha Gamma

—_—_—_—_—

On only two occasions during the| On Monday, February 15th, 1932,
year do all the Med students and|the Alpha Eta Chapter ot Alpha Gamfaculty get together and the second of }ma Delta held elections for its new
these occurs this week. The Med jofficers for tne ensuing year. The
results of the, undergraduate chapter
were as follows:

President, Marion Morton; First
Vice President, Eirene Walker; Second
Vice President, Dorothy Redmond;
Recording Secre‘ary, Katherine Moxon; Corresponufh:g Secretary, Doreen
Harper; Chaplaia, Laura Marshall;
Librarian, Katherine Moxon; Guard,
Jean MacLean; Treasurer, Laura Marshall; Editor, Dorothy Redmond;
faculty and students will meet, et and | Scribe, Jean MacLean; Pledge Director,
exchange .years, et, Short speeches| Doreen Harper, Chairman of Names,
by Drs. H. K, McDonald, K. McLellan, | Dorothy Redmond; Social Chairman.
R. P, Smith and Dreyer will help|Eirene Walker.
digestion along. The old officers will hold office until

It is hoped this year that more of the | the last meeting of the year when the
graduating class will attend, as well as | new officers will take office.
the Junior years, so the latter may see| The meeting was followed by a
just how they should look when they | social evening in the room. Refreshreach that exalted state. ments were served.

Med Society was as usual a success,
and according to the prodromal symptoms’ the Med Banquet will be also.
A large number of tickets have already
been sold.

The last few years the Med Banquet
has not been well attended by the
students but this year will see a révival
of its former glory. On Thursday
evening at the Nova Scotian Hotel

 

University Broadcasting

EDITORIAL (3).

The resolution passed by the Central Advisory Committee of
the Carnegie Corporation with a view to banning radio receiving
sets from student dormitories was, whatever else its effect, an
enequivocal recognition of the unworthiness of broadcasting in
general on the North American Continent today. In Canada,
conditions in this respect have not yet come to so regrettable a
state as that in which they exist in the United States. This is due,
however, not to any more enlightened attitude on the part of the
Canadian people, but merely to the fact that in Canada broadcasting has not, naturally, developed so extensively as it has in the
more thickly populated and more industrialized nation to the south.
Canadian broad-casting is on the same path that United States
broad-casting followed, and only time is required, and a continuance
of the same lack of direction that it now enjoys, to bring it to the
same sorry state of worse than uselessness.

At last the Federal Government seems to have realized its
responsibility in this matter and to be taking steps to preserve as
against commercial monopoly this great medium of education and
entertainment. Probably another Commission is in the offing.
Yet that the efficacy of these commissions are largely problemntical
has been demonstrated in past experience. Meanwhile, there is
much that the Universities can do, at once in alleviation of the undesireability of the present situation, and in their own interests;
in alleviation of the present objectionable features because the y
will offer an alternative to at least a small part of the vacuous
programs at present inflicted on the radio audience; in their own
interests because they will arouse to an appreciation of the value of
the university the people of the community. 
      
  

Dalhousie

 

 
  
 

 

 

No. 15

 

Government Defeated in |
Mock Parliament

 

Guelph Debater

W. J. GARNE?L 1

 

Class President
Showered

(Special to Gazette).

Mr. Lou Christie, prominent engineer at Dalhousie and Miss Nancy
Smith of Sydney, Cape Breton, returned on Sunday evening by the
Qcean Limited from Truro where they
spent a brief visit. They were greeted
at the station by many of their friends
who bombarded them with handfuls of
rice and many congratulations. The
embarassed but happy couple repaired
to the house of Mr. Ken Mahen on
Tower Road where they were greeted
by strains of music from ‘‘Lohengrin”’
played by Mrs. Mahen, in her most
touching manner. After the young
couple had been welcomed by their
many friends there assembled, the
chief event of the evening transpired,
Miss Flo Keniston, dressed very
charmingly to resemble Dan Cupid
wheeled in a large baby carriage
Amidst the smiles of their friends, and
the puzzled looks of the young couple
Mr. Charles Lorway made the following address—‘‘Dear Lou and Nancy:
We your friends and well wishers
assembled here tonight wish to give
you this little gift as a token of our
esteem and regard. In this receptacle
which Miss Keniston or rather ‘‘Cupid”’
so closely guards, you will find the
presentation which after much thought
and care on the part of your friends
we decided would bring most joy and
pleasure to you both. As each month
goes by and our present enlarges itself,
think of us and remember what joy
was ours to be able to present you
with this little gift on such an auspicious occasion. May we wish you much
happiness and a long and happy life
with no sorrows to dull its bright sur
face. Ever remember us and _ particularly this happy evening.”’ Mr.
Lorway then asked Nancy (as her

friends call her) to see what Dan Cupids
carriage contained. Nancy by this
time quite overcome, at last opening
the package which cntained a beautifully engraved twelve month subscription to ‘‘Canadian Homes and
Gardens” which bore this inscription:
“To Nancy and Lou from their friends
and well wishers with love and best
wishes.” Mr. Christie then replied to
Mr. Lorway’s speech in a fitting manner while it was plainly to be seen how
plesed and happy the young couple,
were to receive such a lovely gift.
After an evening spent telling fortunes
by cards and playing guessing games
the hostess served a tasty luncheon
of hot chocolate, sandwiches, cake and
cookies in her own most inimitable
style. And tired but happy the whole

company returned to their homes after
a most enjoyable and pleasant evening.

 

Nova Scotian Hotel
Thursday

anqgu et February 25, 1932

Policy of Federal Government Condemned

 

With Dean Smith in the Speaker's
chair the second session of Sodaies
House of Commons was held in the
Moot Court Koom on Thursday, feb.
18th. A resolution that ‘‘lhis mouse
disapproves of the hseail poucy of tne
Federal Governmient’’ was muved Dy
Hon. T. L. Macbvonalia (Lib. Auan
Shaft) and after a iong and higiny
compiex Gebate Carried by a Glvisiok OF
16 to 12

Tne second session of the house
differea 10 Many ways trom that hea .last term, Lue Khowse WaS on the
whute Mure Subdced ald, Whhie GQeeslions and interrupliuoLs vecame lainy
liequent towarus the Gwuse of Lhe
uevate, the entiusiaSmi ana fervour,
the bursts of cneeilug, the fractious
interjecliunS ana the genera: uproar
tile iast Pierious Ssessiuoh, were CuhspiCudus vy tileir @usence. Uiaoubted1y take Majesuic aid subering atmosphere of the Law Schooi, and the
impeccabie Gecurum of the Speaker,
imparted to the session an air of htting
dignity. Yet if that enthusiasm dear
to the heart of your party whip was
lacking for part of the evening it was
due to the disappointingly small attendance. It was observed that the
female representation had increased
from nil to four. Yet a circumstance
which might have been thought significant of an awakening political consciousness among the ladies of the
University was qualified by the fact
that only twenty-five per cent of those
present felt themselves competent to
vote in the division.

(Summary; Unofficial, abridged, non
Ua

partisan).
Hon. T. D. MacDonald (Lib:
Allan Shaft) moved the resolution

He took for his fundamental premise
freedom of trade restricted by tariff
for two purposes: 1, Self-sufficiency
of the state in time of war. 2. Fostering of infant industries. In the
application of tariff there should be no
discrimination as between the major
industries, yet it is evident that the
manufacturing interests in this country
is protected at the expense of others.
The only excuse for suspending the
gold standard was inability to maintain
it, which, he said, the Government
had not made out. The ‘“‘blasting’’
methods of the Prime Minister, which
gained him some newspaper notoriety
at the Imperial Conference, were of no
use since Great Britain had placed no
tariff on wheat and other foodstuffs.
He criticized the double policy—Canada first, Empire first. He concluded
with some remarks on the New Zealand
treaties, abrogated and proposed.
Mr. Howard Oxley (Lib. Petticoat
Lane) deplored the nationalism of. a:
“blasting’’ policy and called for a
true internationalism in the conduct
of Canadian relations with other
countries... He regretted the lost op

(Continued on page 4°

ToBe Second Speaker

 

 

ROBERT. A. KANIGSBERG

 

 

 
 
  

~

   
    
  

  

F Dp ey Editor: re! | | Managing Editors:
THOMAS D. MacDONALD, B.A. = THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
a ae — -L2890— rer WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
Py ey, mts Associates: :
oe } -H. B. CHANDLER
_ LILLIAN SADLER, B.A
DANIEL SPRY
ELIZABETH MARCH
T. W. CRAWFORD ;
_ Sports Editor:
R. D. DUCHEMIN
B9603
News Editors:
MARGARET DORMAN

EDWARD B, HIGGINS
ELIZABETH MURRAY

RUTH CRANDALL Asst Business Manager:

CHARLES CLARKE, B.A
B2436
Sports Reporter:
MURRAY LLOY

? Proof Editor:
AARON ZIVE, B. Sc.

ss PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB&SON, 7-9-I1 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.

THE SCARCITY OF SKATING SESSIONS.
meat ‘ It is rather a pity that the august Council of the Students has
not seen fit to arrange for a few more skating sessions at the Forum
ma during the current term. As a rule, these periods were always
- '~ well attended, and certainly enjoyed by all who participated.
_--——s- The chief obstacle, no doubt, is the excessive cost of hiring the
~~ sink. ~=But since this year an additional Council fee of three dollars
_-——siper person was paid, there seems to be little valid reason why the
___ student-body should not reap some additional advantage. Far
better, indeed, to expend the money in such a manner that the
-—s Maximum number of people can benefit rather than provide a
____ substantial sum for two score football players. Not only that,
the skating sessions provide an excellent opportunity for the
__- intermingling of Dalhousie and the promotion of a diffused feeling
____ of friendship. We sincerely hope that the Council will take some
“ —- eflective action on this small, yet significant matter.

a
~

| .., €OMPULSORY PHYSICAL TRAINING.
_» For the first time in her long career of over a century, Dalat — -housie is now the proud possessor of a permanent, up-to-date
ymnasium. Within a few days it will doubtless be oflicially
opened, and placed at the convenience of the students. It is to be
hoped that a very large percentage of them will make use of the
ulding tor what is really its ultimate raison d’eire, namely, the
romotion of bodily development. In the past, unfortunately,
n was not the case. ‘Lhe old gymnasium, although employed
any diverse purposes, used to be frequented only by a com
ively small group of undergraduates who wete interested in
exercising their muscles. for this reason, we would suggest the
inauguration oi some policy ot compulsory physical training similar
to that adopted at other Canadian universities, as a salutory
sure.

ows.

   
 
  
    
  
   
     
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
  

:

  

    

;
#

  

         
 
     
  
     
    

a ~ ft would be quite superfluous to expatiate at any length on the
virtues of such a system. ‘Lhey are self-evident. All average
individuals wishing to have healthy, balanced personalities, require
an equal education of mind and muscle. One-sided development
_ ig reserved for geniuses or prize-fighters. But most of our students

eceive absolutely no systematic physica! culture. Except for
_ these who are athletes, the ordinary undergraduate’s exercise is
largely cont.ned to the gyrations of the dance-floor, or the daily
" —__ sprint to a nine o'clock class. ‘Lhis, of course, is very insufficient;
' oth ana new that a fine, large gymnasium is available on the campus,
-__ as well as a iull ume instructor, the possibility of compulsory phy
in sical training at least for freshmen and sophomores, seems to

   

     
    

    
    
 
  
   
   
   
    
  
  
     
  
    
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  

  
 
  

ec commend itself to the attention of the authorities.
+? ae > ' , ; ee ere THE PROFESSOR AS A STUDENT.
a _ There is a dangerous, slovenly thought habit, often noticeable
_ in students who never outgrow the attitude of a tiro towards
-_ university education, of accepting the doctrines presented in class
_—s rooms with unquestioning credulity. Although in some measure
'_ due to themselves, this tendency is to a very large extent stimulated

___ by their teachers. ‘The latter, since they are only human, easily
_____ fall into a dogmatic, pedagogical tone, which because of the author_-_—_ ity of their position, their prestige in other words, is likely to en-_ gender in the minds of the audience a state of uncritical receptivity.
Most often, the professor adopts an omniscient tone unconsciously;
‘ihe has really no desire ‘“‘to put one over” on his listeners. In other
cases, however, he deliberately becomes bombastic in his manner,
____ for the reason that he believes he has final truth on everything, and
is consequently, an oracle of wisdom. He expects reverent respect

and wholehearted agreement from all his students.

 

 ¢

Such an attitude on the part of a professor, is not only offensive
-_ and dishonest; it is absolutely subversive of real education. He unfairly makes use of a psychological trick called “prestige suggestion”
n order to make acceptable propaganda, that might not otherwise
ved implicitly. How difierent is the character of the true
. ‘ake for instance the following passage from Dr. Robert
s' admirable little book, ‘Straight and Crooked Think
»

heard a professor deplore the fact that modern students no longer
s their teachers. God forbid that they should! It is part of the busif a professor to see that his students remain in a condition of critical alertyards what he tells them, instead of falling into this reverence which is
ccompanying prestige suggestion. Dr. Rivers of Cambridge used
len my students no longer contradict me flatly to my face, | shall
have grown old.” That is the spirit we want through all education—
S who use their prestige to force meek acceptance of what they say,
0 retain to the end of their days the spirit of students, always ready
e, and expecting from those whom ey have to teach, argument,
tion and above all, the impartial testing of the truth by experiment.”
rie Y a WY BB } rr
= would not add or subtract a word from this, it breathes
- of true edu ation, such as infused the hearts of Socrates,
. These men, like all of us, were primarily
hers incidentally. ‘Do you know,” asked
the true scholar? In every man there is
‘learn of him; and in that I am his pupil.

    
  
   
 
   
  
 
   

ee _ ™

a great man, should be carved in the
> Pe gical art.

  

avo:

 
 

   
  
  
     
  

 

 

     

The Week in Parliament. (Feb.
15-21).

The estimates, tabled by Hor. E. > \
Rhodes at the first of the week, indicate that the Governmert seeks to
effect a drastic decrease in exper dit: re
rather than resort to increased taxation
for balancing the budget. Variable
expenditure is cut by a good 25 per
cent, the heaviest reductions coming
in Public Works and Railways and
Canals. Uncontrollable expenditure is
increased by $13,000.000, interest on
additions to the public debt. The net
Saving is stated to be $43,000,000 in
total expenditure.

. On Tuesday the Opposition refused
to pass certain departmental estimates
involving reductions in salary to civil
servants, the leaders stating that they
would obstruct the bills until a division
was taken on the bill for a general 10
per cent cut in salaries. The point
was argued at some length and the
objection was temporarily. evaded by
considering estimates which had no
bearing on salaries. On Friday the
matter came up again in the Trade and
Commerce estimates.” Mr, King was
willing to proceed on the ground that
the vote would not be prejudicial to the
general salary issue, but Mr. Woodsworth refused to let the matter pass.
The House was deadlocked on the
point when it adjourned for the week.

Investigations seem to be the order
of the day. A Parliamentary commettee with wide powers to investigate
the radio broadcasting situation, and
to advise on plans to follow the Aird
Report, was set up. A probe on the
actions of the Civil Service Commission
was forecast A motion was brought
before the House to have the Committee on Banking and Commerce
investigate the business transactions
of two prominent life assurance companies. Charges have recently been
made against the directorates of these
corporations, and the purpose of the
proposed enquiry is, presumably, to
restore public confidence in them.
The Privileges and Elections committee
is considering a motion calling for
investigation into election funds and
campaign expenditures. While no action was decided at the first meeting,
some interesting views on the necessity
of campaign expenditures, the modes of
expenditure, and the problem of the
indifferent voter, were aired by prominent members of the House.

A motion introduced by Mr. Heaps
for a material reduction in the hours of
labour as a cure for unemployment was
rejected without division, In answer
to a q'iestion the negotiations with the
Newfoundland Government for the
purchase of Labrador ;were_ tabled
The offer submitted las} October, at a
price of $110 000,000 wa§ turned down
at the time because off financial and
economic conditions in f,anada at that |
time.

 

Sino-Japanese hostilities came up
for discussion when Hon. J. L. Ralston
attempted to introduce discussion on
the propriety of certain officers of the
R. C. A. F. offering their services to
China. Fifty officers and two hundred
air mechanics who are threatened with
discharge from active service in March
owing to proposed economies in their
department, offered to serve on a
Chinese air force for one year—price
$9,009,000. Mr. Ralston’s motion was
ruled out by the Speaker as ‘‘not of
urgent public importance’”’ As it
appears highly unlikely that the offer
will be accepted the matter does not
appear to be of great moment.

 

C. O. T. C. Notes

The results of the practical examinations which were held last week will be
an excellent index of the amount of
work which the members have done
during the year. As far as one could |
tell, the majority of the cadets did
very well, although, unfortunately,
there were a few who appeared entirely
at loss.

The King’s "Contingent, especially
when one considers the enormous hand
icaps which they have had to undergo, |
are making an excellent showing. They
have held a large number of parades
in their own gymnasium, and from a
casual observation one would say that
they had mastered at least the rudiments of drill. Indeed all those who
have been connected with the King’s
unit deserve the highest praise.

There will only be three more lecture
parades before the examinations and
it is imperative that all members who
contemplate writing should be present.
After that all the time will be devoted
to company and platoon drill,

The only means which the general
publis has of judging a military unit
is by the proficiency which that unit
displays in drill. Such a yardstick
may not be very accurate, but it is
certainly popular. The daily press
has been very generous with its praise
of this unit, it is up to us to try to
deserve it.

Many members are inclined to believe that the jobs of O. C. and 1 I. C.
in this unit are pretty soft Let any
one who has formed such an opinion
for a moment of the innumerable details of organization and management
which have to be decided by these
officers. Dalhousie is indeed fortunate
in having two such zealous and hard
working men as Major Read, and
Lieut. Stuart to manage the destinies
of the O, T. C,

 

 

‘Club or the D. A, A. C

: -) eee —— oe ae te i ae eae s = - =
‘can er. Ql Ae hy Pe Ro ne ee Be ey a,” 7. ‘ a, " a ;
oe ate, , D ahh « 2 Page vt e's ; aye" ft ¥ ‘ r :
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

 

The Scandal Press.
The Verse Competition.
Student Council Elections

 

The Scandal Press.

Usually it is a source of somesatisfaction to the Editors.to see articles
from the Gazette reprinted in other
publications; nor is it hard to understand why student opinion should be
of interest beyond the campus. After
all, the students of today will be the
doctors, lawyers, engineers and statesmen of tomorrow, and their views
and ideas cannot be wholly without
weight among those with whom they
will very soon associate and whom
they will finally supercede. The satisfaction derived from this recognition
depends, of course, upon the type of
article copied. In this respect the
local press has always shown itself
exemplary; it has always given the
University a square deal and the picture that it has given the public thro gh
the news items from time to time
printed has been a scrupulously fair one.

Unfortunately the same cannot be
said about some other newspapers
in the province, the propensities
of whose editors can only be classed
as mischief making. Not long ago
there reappeared in the ‘Truro Daily
News’' an extract from the Column in
the Gazette that bears the caption
Observer. Anyone at all acquainted
with the Gazette knows that this column
is in lighter vein and that its items
illustrate the idiocyncrasies rather
than the normalities of the life of the
college, and that they represent exaggerations of student behaviour.
Surely out of the Gazette something
more representative of University life
and more complimentary in its reflections of the mind that chose it
might have been selected for headlines
by the Truro News. In its proper
context, in this paper, the item constituted a little ridiculing of less than
one-fifth of one per cent of the student
body; blazoned abroad by a troublemaking contemporary it was offered as
typical of the entire University; really
a petty policy for the Colchester paper.

The Verse Competition.

A small number of contributions
have been received in response to the
announcement of a verse competition
Including the poetry already printed,
and that which appears in this issue
we acknowledge receipt of poems from

Reverie, Retsrof Commodore, Milton
oa)” “QGasts, BB. Po NN. G. and

Mrs. Henry. The latter, many of the
older students will remember as Eileen
Cameron. Professor Bennett, Dean
Smith, and Dr. Hayes, who make
up the Committee of Gazette Awards
have consented to act as judges and
it is expected that the prize winner will
be announced next week. We hope
that those who have participated in
this contest will continue to submit
poetry for publication in the Gazette.
Poets, Humourists and Cartoonists
seem to come and go in cycles. This
year we have missed many of the old
pens without finding any to take their
places, unless this competition has
aroused a more than passing interest
among those whose talents be in the
direction of verse.

Student Council Elections.

The date for the election of representatives to sit in the Students’
Council is drawing close. This year
the Gazette offers its cooperation to all
of the candidates, with a view to the
elimination of a regrettable condition
that characterized the elections of
last year. At those elections it was
the ordinary thing for the voter to find
himself confronted with a ballot containing names of which he recognized
from fifty to seventy-five percent.
He had alternative choices of forbearing to register a vote between several
pairs of opposing candidates, or of
voting more or less at random. When
it is remembered that a comparatively
small percentage of students take any
active interest in student activities
(probably 30%) it will be easily understood why so many students are totally
unacquainted with many of the candidates. Of course it may be argued
that those who have sufficient knowledge of the candidates to be enabled
to vote are the ones most suited to
select the representatives, and the
ones most affected when the representatives have been chosen. There may
be some force in such an argument if
applied to organizations such as Glee
, but to argue
that the rulings of Student Council
affect only those who actively participate in extra curriculum activities is
to take a very narrow view of the
functions of that body. We believe
too, that the expression of opinion
lost each year through the failure of
students to exercise their right of
franchise is that of a section of the
student body at least as capable and
responsible in this manner as the
section that takes full advantage of
its right to vote.

In the work of making the student
body acquainted with the candidates
the Gazette can accomplish little without
the aid of those who are closely interested; but if the persons responsible
for the nomination of each candidate
will give thei: cooperation, the result
will be mutually advantageous to the
office seeker and to his constituents.

  

Communism and the Church.

Radio Broadcast at Varsity.

Depression.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   

Communism and the Church. —
Preaching a doctrine of Communism

recently Professor John Line ot Victoria
College, Toronto, and formerly Profes
Hill College, Halifax, enlarged upon

been advocating publicly for the past
year or so, Though announcing himself at the outset as a confirmed communist he admitted that he did not
believe in all the contentions of Communism. Recognition of the

erasement of all classes are his ideals
The allegations of Communism against
the Church are only too true, he says,
and the attitude of the church today
is merely one of compromise to the
existing order, of accepting things as
they are—-and seeking to flourish,
Applause greeted this part of his address, Self-satisfaction with the existing state of affairs was the chief characteristic of the Church when it should
be independent, adventuring. The only way the Church can survive is by
casting over the servile sycophancy of
Capitalism and meeting squarely the
demands of a new age for a new gospel
Until then the charges of the Marxian
remain unanswered. Communism is
contributing to the international point
of view, while the Church is static, an
everlessening force in the world situa
tion. The main theme of Professor
Line’s cause seems to be that the idea
of Communism is essentially Christian

revitalise its constitution.

Radio Broadcast at Varsity.

The nightly radio broadcasts of the
University of Toronto have been
productive of a great deal of interest
not only in the province of Ontario
but from many of the States as far
away as New Jersey and lowa, and as
far north as Chicoutimi on the Saguenay River. Requests were received for
500 mimeographed copies of lectures,
and 100 requests that certain topics
be lectured on. A large number of
copies were taken by Archbishop
Fleming to be distributed among
the mission schools of the Arctic. One
man wrote to say that the University
lectures constitute the only justification for his having a radio, and people
from smaller towns write that they
are thus getting some of the advantages
of the large cities. After a lecture on
Burns there was a sudden demonstration of enthusiasm from people everywhere with names beginning ‘Mac.’
The University has in the radio the
opportunity not merely to create a
stronger link between itself and the
people, but to influence public opinion.
Now when the radio has a place in
almost every farmhouse in the Maritimes it should be obligatory that the

 

betore a large group of McGill students

sor of Comparative Religion at Pine

the Christian Socialism that he has

lower
class by other classes and the eventual

February 24th, 19382

 

 

Day’s End

———

 

Where the sun is the waters gleam

There drifts a slow dull stream

In silver shadows caught,

And on the hills the sunset glow
Stops a space its golden flight,
While valleys steeped in indigo
Give back the voices of the night

ground.
And no path has its way,
Even soft leaves give no sound
To the faltering feet of day.
Clear and high the last birds call,
Soft and deep the shadows fall.
ALUMNA

 

Advice

Be quiet, be still, my heart,

And hands, that so well knew

The touch of warm brown skin,

Fold your slenderness, be quiet too;
And white moth fingers that caressed,
And soft red lips that lived his kiss,

Be not expressive of your pain,

By tomorrow you'll remember this

As one recalls a perished dream,

For which there needs must be a tear;
Be quiet, be still, my heart,

; it will not hurt this time next year!

ALUMNA.

—ir — - — —- ———

Executive Meets

The executive of the Graduating
C} ss has held several meetings recently
and plans for Grad week are being
formulated.

The first organization meeting was
held at the home of Esther Elliot,
where preliminary plans were discussed. Last Monday evening, meeting at the home of Ed Higgins, first
reports were heard and more detailed

and to align itself with the movement] plans were made. Several new ideas
is the Church’s great opportunity to]are being incorporated into the Grad

Week of social functions, and if the
cooperation of the Grads is what it
should be, the executive can promise
a week that never will be forgotten
Full details will be sent to all graduates at a later date

 

University present to the people another view of politics and affairs generally
than they are forced to receive from
certain American stations.

Derression.

Two Ontario colleges have been:

affected by reducticn in salaries. The
staff of the University cf Toronto will
have their salaries lowered March 1
on the same sliding scale recently set
for Ontario civil servants. The fees
in the four arts colleges will be increased
from $75 to $100, to be effective in the
1932-33 session, Loan and_ bursary
funds will be increased to meet the
new demands. The cuts range from
$45 to $2000 to slightly under $1000
on $10,000. Queen’s University has
also under consideration a reduction
in the salaries of the teaching staff of
that institution. These cclleges over
the Dominion who are kept up by
Government funds seem to be passing
through perilous times.

 

 

New Spring

Hats
by Brock

Smart new shades and styles featuring the
Narrow Snap Brim.

The Brock

$6.50

The St. Lawrence $5.00

The Horton

$4.00

 

shanes Mens Wear

 

30 Spring SOP Garden Ra.

 

Like golden flame, where the sun is not

Where the green moss clothes the

 

    
    
   
    
  
  
   
=?
es

    
     
  
   
  
    
    
   
   
   
     
  
      
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
    
   
   
   
    
   
  
   

Society met on Friday
ord Dunsany’s plays were
a few of the more suc
e-act plays were read. The

ded with a reading by way
rast of ‘'The Old Lady Shows
is’ by Sir J. M. Barrie.
ided to continue with the

day, Feb. 19th, Midlothian
tained by Professor and Mrs.
t their home. Several plays
d including, ‘‘The Riders to
y J. M: Synge. ‘“‘The work
Ts DY. Lady Gregory and

ods of the Fountain’’ by Lord

ys
special request Professor Bennett
extracts from Synge’s delightful
y, “Playboy of the Western

Refreshments were then served by
Mrs. Bennett. Midlothian takes this

yportunity to thank Prof. and Mrs.
nett for their kindness.

 

Sorority Tea

8

ol

hea a

The Sigma Theta Pi Sorority was
‘entertained at a tea dance on Saturday
at the home of Merle Purtill; and again
a delightful tea at the home of
y Harris on Sunday afternoon.
rs. Murray MacNeill, Mrs. Maxwell
nd Mrs. Nichols were the guests of
mour at both functions

No Mistake

22 e

*

.

£

ce

ca

<<

Pd

eg

# c

ok we
: =
Ce

 

 

a
|
om
/

f

ry

 

You wil) make no mistake
in asking friends to dine,
lunch or have tea with ycu
at ‘“*The Green”’
} every effort ism ade to give
iil satisfactory service..........

where

 

. [he Green Lantern

 

PIANOS, RADICS, VICTROLAS

i.

5 | Small Mus.cal Inst: uments
and Victor Records —

th We invite you to join ovr
at | ty Lj rr ; prey i . :
_ |{Fiction Lending Library
Y z PRs 2 cents per day —
| McDonald Music Co.

a 393 Barrington Street.

A. McDonald
TOBACCONIST

' | Smokers Requisites of every

an

 

 

. description
A complete stock of Domestic
i and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

i
i

Eat)

?
' 7

 

e 21 Spring Garden Road

 

AGROTT &
WALKER, INC.

:& A! you dear!
fi} Now we can invite
our Friends and
| know newt be hee
Fi tocome. Its just what
ve - lwanted- a Piano from
|| PHINNEY’S
You, too, may have music
with all the delight that it
brings in YOUR home.
=. vr  Ordera
_ JIHEINTZMAN, WEBBER
é ‘4 om ‘ or.
a || BELL Piano to-day

Enjoy y the great rleasure of self

»

* ta
1 v
‘aD

met ; J a 8 A :
a _tauirax, N.S

— a ~ ae ia %
~ ro" ; lear es, « kr
ss a r J a pa i “<T rr
i ; As A Bey sole nek ply
. ae ity 2
a, oe eer |
H ie Cea
‘ ,
’

A
' ave. An
. te 5

~
ees’. al
pits, ~ “ : 4
5a) Oe) ee
omc oi ee, # a, ae Vee ;
ce ee ool Pe ar dh : 5 Sf. , ah. ;
ee a ty =" gh 4 ‘ * “i, aa i a. .
ee ~ eS i veh vi mee Dae , = ee oe iL i
aang sx paren or aa | IR Sci
4 r te J ~ hes na sa : ey ah fs faa

dlothian Club | Pros and

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The CRitunas

 

Co-education, with a question mark,
Does co-education serve is purpose?
Has it a pupose? Is co-education
efficient? Should we lift Shirreff Hall
off the Dalhousie Campus and place
it across the Arm? Such questions
from the male members of the student
body in ‘‘bull session” in the Smoking
Room cf the Arts Building, and the
opinion held by many women that
they are not given a ‘‘square deal” at a
co-educational college, has prompted
the Gazette to take a plebiscite on the
question.

A wide canvass of student and
faculty opinion has been taken on the
subject. The views here expressed
are purely of a personal nature, for
in any debateable issue, argument can
be advanced for and against with little
progress to a fixed and indisputable
decision. This question is such a one

In offering you the views expressed
By Miss McKeen, Dr Benge Atlee,

rofessor C. Wilson Smith, by both
male and female members of the
‘student body; and by even including
the stand of Polar Pie Atwood, the
Gazette feels that it has presented a
fair cross-section of opinion of campus
lite at Dalhousie.

Miss MacKeen—lI believe in coeducation absolutely. Any one who
is forced to spend four years in an
artificial society finds it very difficult
to adjust themselves to what is, after
all, a co-educational world. The disadvantage is too great in spite of the
extra work which is undoubtedly done
in men’s or women’s colleges.

Dr. Benge Atlee, Faculty ot Medicine, Dalhousie, autho: of Are Women
Sheep? Dr. Atlee in expressing himself
on the subject said that looking at coeducation from an educational and
intellectual stand, he was in favor of it,
but then, only in theory. For, women
should have the same facilities for a
broad, basic education as man. This,
however is as far as it sho ld go

A woman should have other special},

and separate trairing in accoidance
with her own pec liar needs. For, in
epite of the so-called women’s emancipation she was still the same creature
physiologically, spiritually, morally and
still, in a large measure vocationally
(the home). Practically, co-education
does not work well. The university
was built originally for men.
suffers somewhat from. woman’s invasion into higher educational circles |
The sex urge plays to strong a part
either conscio sly or wunconscioisly
Very little real scientific, political, or)
inoral progress has been done in male
and female partnership. Consider
your group discussions An all-male
discussion in a college dormitory can

| follow, generally, along a fairly serious

strain. Introduce women to the dis-,
cission and watch this seriousness
drop. Theoretically. I favor co-education, practically, I do not.

 

 

  

 

 

 

Leather Goods

Portfolios, Trunks
Bags and Luggage of
all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD |

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

 

 

 

 

And man | ask me, I think it's a darn good idea.

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

EXCLUSIVE AGENT

FOR

“SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES”

IN HALIFAX

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

437 BARRINGTON STREET.
—Ii's the cut of your clothes that counis—

 

 

Professor C. Wilson Smith, Professor of Education: Co-education provides an excellent, endowed marriage
bureau.
such a statement has a depth to it
too. The university brings together
men and women of a high social level
and what is more important, a high
intellectual level. This is a good thing
for the state. Discussion groups and
class discussion brings forth the opinions of the female sex, and its point of
view. For a man, this is invaluable
if i said het wore nave lous Biers
of the expenditure of the world’s money
when mf supplies the home. Socially| Prof. Bennett (who has been entertoo, the knowledge of a woman’s point | ining English 2 by reading a play in a
of view is valuable, But why argue high falsetto voice) ‘‘That’s enough.

about.co-education, it is here to stay better stop before I make a worse
it. in ecoriomioally: sound, spectacle of myself than Nature did.”

ment) for the French Club dance,

That Ball, by the way, must have
been quite an occasion. While the

Boilermakers’ yet Murray Ryan had
to pay for a table he broke in a playful
moment.

—_—

 

It is rumored that Dalhousie is
shortly to open a Kindergarten: Helen
Mackie, Lib Murray, and Teddy

Polar Pie Atwood, genial manager
of the University Store:—My sage:
could not stand the closing down of] Dorman were “kept in” :

. * ee: pt in” by Professor
pees ee The ah Pols sien. | Ernest Martin on suspicion of having
my Dest buyers—not of Folar 1 1€S,) copied their French exercise, while three

pennants, cigarettes or magazines| »;ominent Meds were kicked out of the
strangely enough, but of text-books. gym by our President. In other
words, the children need to be looked

Mr. Arthur Pattillo (Telegram from| after,
the Mount Royal Hotel, Montreal,
where Mr. Pattillo is at present on
fraternity business). I REFUSE TO
BE INTERVIEWED STOP THE
ISSUE IS TOO FRAUGHT WITH
POLITICAL DIFFICULTIES,
PATTILLO.,

Marion Findlay’s room at Shirreff
Hall has been crowded lately as ail the
girls were in viewing Gord Elkin's
fraternity pin, weil displayed on the
Findlay sweater.

There is a report from the Phi Rho
house to the effect that Don Thompson,
Miller MacKay and Doug Gibbon
embroidered the favors for the recent
formal dance with their own fair hands.

Edith Allen—lI believe in Co-education in theory but it is unsuccessful
here because the girls form a very small
minority. We have so many classes
with open discussion, but in one where
there are forty boys to three girls
no girl has enough courage to open her
moutn.

A Dalhousie Hiking Club, we understand, is being formed by Mr. Charies
Harries Some of the members
recently hiked to Herring Cove under
the leadership ot Mr Harties and Miss
MacLean. another prominent member of the Club is ‘‘B.d” Peteis. It is
ramored that Deiphive Waiiace ond
ran Huntiey are jist crazy to join.
All you reqvire is a good knapsack and
a pair of breeches. Applicants may
address themselves to Mr. Harries
enclosing biith certificates and photographs.

Barb Condon—I never thought

about it.

Dick Squires—|] think co-education
is a good thing. It gives us a closer
and ireer association with women than
we could ever obtain otherwise. For
example, | can walk down the street
without feeling obliged to tip my hat
to every girl | know.

Executive work must be so fatiguing
to the brain of our brilliant co-ed.
Barb Barnhill, for we know she fell
asleep at the executive meeting of
Class 32 last week, Ah well, some say
‘twas the company. Some say ‘twas
the hour. We'll leave it tae ye.

Dolly Gray—Co-education? If you

Kay Hebb— believe in co-education
The brains of the sexes are complementery and do their best work together.
The trouble at Dalhousie is that
neither girls nor boys discuss anytoing
serious. Each are afraid of seeming too
intellectual, t.o‘‘highbrow”’ before the
other.

Bryce Bell—What do I think? Coeducation is what makes a man take

The Golddiggers of Broadway have
nothing on the boys-of Dal: for fair
womanhood has at last come into her
own (until Feb. 29th). ’Tis wonderful,
to say the least, what a large number

seven years to complete a four year ad : =

course.

 

 

   

 

C

 

| YELLOW CAB

|
LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours

Two travel for same as one.

More than two, 20 cents extra

Covers up to six. |

BIRKS=

‘Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

Birks have specialized for

years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitte without
charge.

Hen:y Birks & Sons
LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

Observer hears that Bord Stoddard
V - but} amnounce Ss intention of dressin

es you may jaugh; bu as a girl and coming up to the Hall
to get a room (preferably in the base

damages were not quite up to the|

41-2 WATT ST.,

  
 
 
 

OI DS
(/NCOME TAX

a

== :
<>

 

recently! Of course we wouldn’t im-|fair occupant of Room 124 to the

pugn the motives of our male coeds| French Circle Hop,

One prominent

but Delta Gamma Dance IS coming|freshette even offered the following—

isn’t it?

Chuck asked Ede

To the Circle Spree—
And he got a bid

And while speaking on such a delicate

ADVERTISING

D. MacCREADY

 

:
:
t

*
8 >: we ' : *
Rn a en pg A A A lnm cae omen g eae aa th Dal gt nace
‘ > = eh ae « :

> = ‘
ee ee

To—the Purtill’s Tea.
topic, we hear (Hall Gossip) that the| Tough luck, old man!
of curious ‘‘dates’’ have been made|Ass't. Basketball Manager took the} next time.

Better luck

eS

HALIFAX

  

a hdr. 7 .
er eg pean meme sar

 

—

 
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
  

DALHOUSIE | GAZETTE _

ayer “Trims Meds.| Tigers Win Over|Dal. bans he:
| Tech. __ Hockey

4 Dalhousie Tigers nos nosed out a fairly
»|score being 1 17. J. McDonald easy win over Technical College in the | Running up three goals in the first
| was high scorer “for Medicine, while] -enjor basketball league Saturday night | period, while tle Tigers were getting
Smith collected the highest score for| 5. 4 score of 27 to 18, but the Wan-| two, King’s College hockey team scored

pag woe peee men SF SPT

    

ee = reese

 

| Law won a close game from Medicine
in the A aon basketball league
at the St sary? é s gymnasium, the final

re aE oie

c thet eredite Law. The teams lined up as follows: derers won the title by defeating the|their first victory in the city intercolscr gti: C are not «completed Medicine—Magonet (4), J. Me-l|y in their scheduled game the same} legiate league at the expense of Dalre may ae Donald (7), Outhouse, Drover (2), aight. Dal took the lead early in| housie in a regularly scheduled game

-other. B, McDonald (4), ae Total 17. their game with Tech, scoring ten played at the Forum Monday night.
ing rh Law—Davis (6), Matheson (4), goints while holding their opponent | [Incidentally the defeat was a costly

one for Dal, as the Tigers are now
eliminated from any chance of winning
the city league titale.

The game was a fairly fast exhibition
of the national pastime, the first two
periods in particular being replete
with good plays. In the third King’s
played defensive hockey to hold their
one-goal lead while the Tigers played all
five men up in an attempt to tie the
count. King’s got the jump on Dal
in the first five minutes of play, when
they notched up two goals in quick |¢
succession. The first goal was scored
by Duchemin on a long shot from outside the Dal blue line that Smith
nearly stopped, but it fell from his
hands into the net. House added
another for King’s a few seconds later
when he sent a fast shot in past Smith
from right wing following a nice rush,
The Tigers broke into the scoring

hile Theologys have won two
Xe cg at ae one with oné game to play, so
uh win will eh the series in section
ae ee” _ Professors have three wins a
e to play with Commerce, in
Commerce succeed in winning this
al game, it will tie-up section C
Lick will mean an extra. game with
Ss

ne

 

 

 

er Bowling Seed the follow
eae a few of the high-scores made by
students in practice at the St. Marys
Bowling Alleys This contest is for
2 Silver Cup and the University In
cane

x -_“DRESSLER’

Smith (8), Stewart, Finlayson, Cowan,} --ojeless, but Tech soon got goins
aha (1): Total 19. and made the game interesting. . Thg
Playoffs in the interfaculty basket- aif fame score was 17 to 10.The
ball league will start this week, when] --cond period was closely contested
the winners of the three sections of the] With Tech controlling the ball- and
league will meet in the new Dal gym | forcing the play, but both teams were
way oe their snoChne: ye Tigers
Ne ithered ten points to Tech's 8 in the
Shi ff Hall Tconion Bauld and Davidson stood
irre out as Dal’s best bets Saturday night,
while White and Hull were the pick of
Miss Dorothy hy Redmond left for)the Tech outfit. The teams lined up as
| Moncton on Thursday where she spent | ollows:
the week-end. Dalhousie—Guards, Handler (8),
_ Miss Doreen Harper and Miss Mary | Kennedy (1), Clarke; Dubilier; centre,
0 Lee McCoubrey spent the week-end| McRae (2); forwards, Bauld (9),
in Truro the guests of Miss Katherine | Davidson (9), Te featet ns (3), Lorway
Moxon. Brittain. Total 27,
Betty Webster, Barbara Walker. Tech.—Guards, Thompson (2),
Pat Cann Florence and Martha Kenis-| Curry, Bayer; centre, White (8); for‘ton are leaving with the Intercollegiate wards, Hull (4), Sutherland (4), BerBasketball Team on Saturday for|ringer, Total 18.
Wolfville where they will play Acadia. column. a few minutes later in the
first frame, when Taylor scored !rom
Cubs ‘Lase To ‘y? close in, the puck rolling under the
dividual Championship for any ‘Dal King’s 'goalie’s knees. The King’s
housie student making the six highest | ° tert twas rushes were effective, and time and
seamee {08 six strings during the bowling] | Dal Cubs lost their game in the again they nearly scored. Towards
sea intermediate basketball league to the | the end of : the period, Smith put
L,, Sthofeky, 106, 117, 119, 111, 115, x Saturday night in a game in which } | King’s up two again ona shot from
111, total 679. the Y had the edge, by a score of 23 | centre that Smith never had a chance
E, Murray, 110, 110, 107, Lit, 120, to 18, The Stoddard brothers Were ‘to stop. The Tigers put on a spurt
101, total 659. high scorers for Dal and turned in a | that netted them another goal to bring
D. MacRae, 124, 112, 111, 101, 101,| fine game, while Robinson and Nicker-|}them up within one of the King’s
101, total 650. son showed up well for the winners|score, Oyler circling the defence to
H, Goldberg, 111, 97, 99, 97, 96, 104) The line- -ups and score: net the rubber from close in. The
| Total 604. Y. M. A.—Guards, Smith, goal ended the scoring for the period
| Bowling Finals. Doubleday, Wallace (1), Tattiie; centre | and the game.
Mon Feb. 22  Prof'’s vs. Law 7.00 Marshall; forwards, Ells (3), Doane, The second and third periods went
‘Wed. Feb. 24 Prof’s vs. Meds: 7.00] Alexander (4), Robinson (10,) Nicker- scoreless, and were marked by desper
Wed. Feb. 24 Lawvs Meds. 9.00)son (5). Total 28. ate attempts by Dal to tie the count.

 

 

"|\Mock “Poislicerkion

(Continued from page 1)
portunity of 1911 when the Reciprocity
agreement was defeated by the Tory
cry of * ‘No truck nor trade with the
Yankees.”’ Speaking for what might
be a wing of the Liberal Party he came
out strongly for a return to conditions
of free trade. He attacked the view
that protective tariffs raise wages.
In dealing with other phases of fiscal
policy he opposed the Government
measure to cut the salaries of poorlypaid civil servants.

Hon, M. MacDonald (Con.
Judique) was surprised to discover that
free trade was thought to be anything

put a dead issue It is now going
out of fashion in the one country
supposedly devoted to it. The Government does not stand for rigid tariffs,
The national situation must be observed asa whole and tariff levels so altered
as to best aid national industries.

At this point there was some altercation with Mr. Dubinsky as to the
latter’s activities at the moment.

Mr. MacDonald: Four principles behind tariff policy,

1. To aiding relief of unemployment

2. Protection of industries already
established with fixed plant.

3. To give the Government bargaining power in its commercial deal
ings with other countries.

4. To exercise some measure
control over the balance of trade

He concluded with extended remarks
on the psychological factors in voting
on the present resolution.

Mr. Donohoe (Con, Cork) Policy
of free trade could only have one result
—the extinction of Canada and Canadians. This country must have a
tariff if it is to be held together at all.
Venturing into the vexed question of
the gold standard he met with a flood of
questions and opposition, He pointed
out that the importance of some tariff
items was the reason for their being
hurried through the House. Lastly
he justified the cut in administrative
salaries on the ground that funds must
be provided to meet the exigencies of
unemployment.

ol

 

February 24th, 192

Siibee¥ouctt
_ Hockey

Engineers and Medicine will meet in’
the final for the Interfaculty hockey
championship as a result of games played last week, Engineers defeating Commerce by a score of 3 to nil while Med
downed Law 8 to l.

Commerce and Engineers met in
their inter-sectional final last Thursday
at the Arena, and dished out some fast
hockey, Engineers scoring in the first
period when Menzie sent one in from
the blue line. The teams battled on
even terms until half way through the
third frame, when Harries registered
for Engineers twice more. Menzie
and Harties were outstanding for the
winners, while Stoddard and Sullivan
shone for Commerce. The line-up:

Commerce( D. Mahon, Goodman,
Herman, O'Brien, Stoddard, Sullivan,
McDonald.

Engineers: Goal, Hawboldt; defence

Corkum, Menzie; forwards, Harries,
Christie, Ferguson, Akin, Rood, Covert.
McLellan, Donohue, and G. LeBrun

tallied for the Meds to defeat Law by
a score of 3 to 1, Cowan, getting the
lone score for Law. The line-ups:
Medicine: McLellan, Donohue,
Young, Maxwell, Murray, Peters, Rip
 

 

ley, G. LeBrun, Silver.

Law: Grant, Stewart, Smith, Miller,
Cowan, LeBrun, Hicks, Fairbanks.

Other members speaking in the
debate were, Mr. Foster (Lib. Little
East Side Saint John), Mr. Jost (Con:
Coke Ovens), Mr. Miller (Con. New
Glasgow), Mr. Dubinsky (Lib. Glace
Bay), Mr. Grant (Con. Salt Springs)
Mr. Finlayson (Lib. Finlayson),

Ayes 16.

Noes 12.

WINNERS FRCM THE

START

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection No matter
what your favorite sport may be

  
 
   
   
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
    
 

  
  
   
   
  

eee ean &) oe The defence put up by a ae s
Thompson ( cott , SMOISKY;| team was effective, although the Tigers
““é > B A Ss K ET B ALL centre, Mann, A. MacDougall; for-|came near scoring several times. The
EMMA —————— NY a a Steddard (8), B, Stoddard second frame was fairly evenly. a)
= - F . McDona . acintosh, | tested with Dal having a slight edge,
spat lng re ¥.M.C. A. Sat., Feb. 20 O’Brien (3), Total 18. but they were unable to overcome the

_ Feb. 29 to Jan. 1-2 EI Ge inline
6 p. m. Dalhousie vs. ST. JOHNS

Intermediate

: ; Wand
: 7 p.m. King’s vs. Wanderers
a Y.M.C.A.
~ Holiday” 8 p. m. N. S. Tech. vs. aise
A 9 pe! m, Wanderers vs. Dalhousie
Give FE ReeIeie Senior

 

- General Admission 25c

SUL BYTE, COMPTON
a Reserved 35c

 

age Pe ey univer | GARRIC K

(DUMBBELLS)

“AS ™
YOU
WERE”

THE OLD GUARDS
BACK AGAIN ©

ar et
. During the period of Feb. 25th
}}to March 15th inclusive we are
pi jallowing | 10c. off each purchase||
jof Dal. stationery, consisting of

eating candy during Lent we
i ve aprles, oranges, salted pea|jputs, | beer, milk, and MUCH

.
sd

 

Evenings $1.00 75c. and 50c.
Matinee Sat. 50c.

|New eae Arrivals in

Men's Bitkdats Oxfords
Of Solid Leather

a; Years Price $ 6. 50

— Choic she writ: lasts for every Seckie black
Nees,” 1! ror, calf and black kid leather. |
eee yt a. EA poe. Sword Floor. |

os

 

 

-Kent and Chisholm refereed the
cLtemmuedinte, while Hill and Goudey
handled the whistle in the senior game.

NF. €20.S.
Debate

(Continued from page 1)

Robert Kanigsberg second speaker
of the team, is a graduate in Arts 1930.
He has specialized in Political Science
and Economics. and has an excellent
grasp of the science of government and
of present day economic problems, a
knowledge which ‘should peculiary
fit him for the coming debate. Like his
colleague, Mr. Rosenblum, Mr. Kanigs
berg makes his first appearance on a
university team on this occasion
though he has been an ardent supporter of and a frequent speaker at Sodales
meetings. He was a member of the
Gazetie staff in 1930-31 and has been
awarded a Gazette “D”, He is a
member of Phi Alpha Mu.

 

 

Junior Senior
Dance

The Annual Junior-Senior Dance
will be held in the new Gymnasium on
Friday night, March 11th. Joe Mills
and a 6 piece orchestra will be there.
This will be the first formal dance in
the new Gym and George Thompson
heads a capable committee in charge
Get ready for a REAL Dance! More
details later.

 

heivodiodse the Dal Hoopsters

 

Of all departments of sport basketball has probably suffered most from
the loss of the Gym. Few, inconvenient and inadequate practice facilities
have been a severe handicap, but the
team has nevertheless made a very
creditablershowing in the City League,
and has certainly merited far greater
support than it has received. It is to
be regretted that the players must be
introduced through the columns of
the Gazette rather than in action on
the floor, where we all should know
them, but here they are:— .

= Pe BE

Harry Hisidies Captain, Guard
Harry is rated as the best running
guard in Nova Scotia. He knows the
game thoroughly and puts his knowledge to use. A very dangerous closein shot, and a great floor general.

Charlie Anderson: Advised to keep
out of the game for this season as a
result of injuries received in football,
Charlie was chosen by the team to act
as Coach. On occasion he has stepped
in to his old position as guard with great
effect.

Don MacRae: Centre for several
years and ex-captain of the 31 squad.
Don possesses a great scoring punch,
is a consistent worker, knows his
position, and is an excellent team-man.

Harold Davidson: Forward and
ex-captain of 1930—as well as a member of the 31 champions. He is the
highest individual scorer Dalhousie
has had for several years. He is fast
and an unbeatable close-in shot.

Sammy Fairstein: Forward and
member of the 81 team, The best
combination player of all. His name
is seldom prominent in write-ups but
Sammy starts many plays that result
in scores for his team-mates,

Hugh Kennedy: Guard. Anoth
champion of 81, Nick is strong = ne

bounds and also Possesses a beautiful |

rrr ge gS er
ee a reece em SS

we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you,

|| CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
iM M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

lead. In the third, Dal had things
practically their own way, and playing
five men up the ice kept the King’s
team inside their blue line for’ the
greater part of, the period. Prat in
the King’s goal gave an Ptaeeuolde Dee TN Ea ca ek a,
exhibition to turn aside all threats
however, and the rushes of the Tigers
were effectiv ely checked practically
at the goal mouth. The game ended
with the play in King’s territory, and
the score 3 to 2 in favor of King’s.
The Tigers lost many chances through
being over anxious to score, and went
in behind the King’s net too often to
lose costly minutes.

Taylor and Oyler were the pick of
the Tigers outfit, playing their positiond
well and coming neai scoring time and
again on the King’s team, while Smith
and Walter Zinck were outstanding for

|

 
 

   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

 

Ki the latt the defence being sisal teaeeneagaoinndayiii acai
sattloniasts D fective Through the SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY
illness of Purtill, ‘Ike’ Smith sub- .

 

stituted in the Dal nets, and turned in
a fine gamé, turning aside many hard

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA

shots. The line-ups were as follows: IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
King’s—Goal H. -Prat; defence
Mader, W Zinck; forwards, Smith Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons
Cole, House, Fry, Duchemin, Gosse 7
S, Zinck. or Dinners.
Dalhousie—Goal, Smith; defence,

Connor, Bent, W. McDonald: forwards, TELEPHONE B7231

Oyler, Taylor, Coleman, Ryan, Robb,
Grant.

Timmie Hunter refereed.

—__—__—+-*

Prof. and Mrs. C. L. Bennett entertained the Midlothian Society at
their house on Friday night. The
evening was devoted to the discussion
of the Irish dramatists.

 

 

 

 

Final Week Of

Zive’s Annual
Furniture Sale

 

— + ea ee

 

 

j long shot. He and Handler make a
good pair of guards.

 

Algy Brittain: Forward. The last
of the old team. Algy has more
native ability than any of the others.
He is fast, a smooth ball handler and
dribbler and has a dangerous side-shot

Don Bauld: Forward. Comes with
a reputation from H. C. A, He has
fitted in well with the. team, is a heady
and consistent player with a beautiful
arch shot.

 

This, the final week of Zive’s 30th
Annual February Furnitrre Sale, will bring

to a close the Greatest Furniture Event of

Frank Creighton: Forward. Comes
from Mt, A. Frank is a good combination and all-round floor man, unap aah in his passing and a sure close-in
shot.

the year.

  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   

Those of you who plan to purchase
anything in the line of Furniture or Home

Furnishings now or in the near future,

Charlie Lorway: Centre.
duct of the 31 second team.
ous scorer and a hard worker.

Charlie Clarke: Guard. Another
second team graduate, with a nice eye
for rebounds.

Babe Dubilier: Guard. “Babe is a
new-comer, but has shown up well
He has a very nice long shot, and keeps
at it all the time.

A -proA danger

would be most unwise to allow this oppor
tunity to pass without taking advantage of
the values offered.

et ee er

 

ART’S °32
Special Meeting

THURSDAY Feb, 25

ROOM 3 STUDLEY
12 NOON

IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT
ALL MEMBERS BE PRESENT

 

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy Homes”’
448-450 Barrington St.

Halifax, ~ Canada.

 

 

as oi
ms ~~ ¥
ae g *®
eg ee jail.

 
