  

Freshmen Debat
_ ersDefeat Juniors

ae Sodales holds election and
presents ‘‘D’S”’

_—— —_ ——
 

ee The election of officers for next year,

the final debate in the Bennett Shield

series and the presentation of awards

to the winners in the series and of

‘““D's’’ to six debaters, were the features

marking the meeting of Sodales Debat
ing Society held on Thursday evening,
March 17th.

The subject for the debate was,
resolved: ‘That a university training
leads to more intelligent voting on
public questions.” The Juniors, represented by Miss Aileen Meagher
and Mr. Ben Rogers upheld the resolution, while the Freshmen represented
by Miss Beth Atherton and Mr.
Edward Arab, spoke for the negative.

Mr. Rogers, in opening the debate,

, - pointed out that the training given in
. all professions make for more intelligent
e voting. He thought that the lawyers

stood in a class by themselves, and if
their training did anything, it was to
make them think more clearly. He
| stressed the fact that students in their
reparation for practically every promt: ession, took courses in economics,

Cy _ which would certainly fit them to render

| san intehigent decision on so many of
rf the public questions which involve

a _ problems in economics. The study of

i . political science achieves a like end, he
| + oF

F ga the negative, thought

that the study of university subjects is
not a prerequisite to intelligent voting.

What is more important is the develop
ment of common sense through the

- _—__ gchool of experience. ‘The public ques
Ve tions are not such as to require a uni
vee: versity training in order to understand
ss them. +=At any rate most of thegsub
So", + sect sees at college are far removed
i ae ‘" a * ;

 

  
       
 
    
 
  
           

  

5 .
om the issues which arise at elections.
Mi Meagher argued that the study
ory at a university cannot help
i aid in the solution of the
f today. Then, too, stu
      
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
    
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
    

be

exchange views, teaching
‘other the issues which are most
< tant to their particular province.
Ey: is not only in the fact Pee ere

sity training gives an insight into
ca Se deal problems but also that it
ches the student to think deeply,
that it is so beneficial to the voter in
‘making his decisions.
Mise Atherton declared that most of
ne students do not take the subjects
nich would, if any do, make them
more capable of rendering an intelligent
on public questions. The average
ersity man is so sure of his own
isions on most questions, that he
es not think he need give them very
serious consideration.

Sater Mr, Arab and Mr. Rogers had
aged in rebuttals, Messrs. McCarOxley, Dubinsky, Rosenblum and
Oyler spoke from the floor. ;

_ The judges, Dr. Ronald Hayes,
ek a! . T. MacQuarries and Mr.
nald Grant gave the decision in
your of the Freshmen, who were then
ed the winners in the Bennett
eld series of interclass debating.
wards of books were presented to
ss Beth Atherton and Mr. Edward
b, who had led their class to victory.
Debating ‘‘D’s”’ were then presented
Messrs. Howard Oxley, Douglas
cIntosh, Julius Rosenblum, Rabert
anigsberg, Charles Anderson and
Richard Squires.

The remainder of the business for the
ening was the election of officers for
ext year. Voting on a number of
nominees for each of the offices resulted

in the election of—

—_ _ Mr, Potter Oyler—President.
'_—”—sC Mss Beth Atherton—Vice-President.

~~ Mr, Harry Sutherland—Secretary
a ‘Treasurer.

Ay ee
fo 4
te

Sa
bt) re
Pct

            
  
    
 

7.
i,

 

 Feme mF
et a ‘
Sn
ee

tC ..

Dal Co-eds
e ; Debate Mt. A.

     
      
     
 
   
  
  
   

 

 

 

 

  
     
     
  
   
  
   
 

~__ On Monday, March 14th, the Girls’

Intercollegiate Debate was held in

- D Ihousie and Mt. Allison. The sub
ject was ‘‘Resolved that in the interests

of world peace the British Empire

should agree to co-operate in protectNations against external attack.”

rguson, leader; Miss Dorothy Gray,

id Miss Elizabeth March upheld the

lle at Fawcett Hall between

te tr,
ane all members of the League of
i ‘he Dalhousie Team, Miss Marie
ative of the resolution while the

y parts of the country |

 

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

: = ae cia = Mie = = ae
rrr epee et pee engage tieemaae esas

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 23rd, 1982.

 

 

No. 19

 

 

  

M. R. McDONALD

Last night in the auditorium of the gymnasium the visitors upheld the negative side of the resolution

 

St. F. X. Debaters Who Met Dal Team Last Night

JOHN B, LYNCH

constituted is an effective means for the preservation of world peace’”’

  

JOHN B. CUNNINGHAM

“That the League of Nations as at present

FLASH: As we go to yress we are infc:1 med that the debate resulted in a draw.

Arrived Monday
Night

The debaters from St. Francis
Xavier College arrived in the city
Monday night and were made welcome
asguestsat Pine Hill Residence. They
were pleased with the reception accorded them, and soon became acclimated |
o the spirit of the place, in fact it is
even hinted that Shirreff Hall was in
demand on the telephone. Such is
the effect of Pine Hill, The debate
is under the auspices of the Intercollegiate Debating Union. The leader of the Xaverian team is John B.
Lynch, of Sydney, C. B., who has
taken part in college debates for this
past two years. Mr. Lynch is Presdent of the Senior Class at St. F. X.
and Secretary of the Hockey League
(Intercollegiate). He was the leader
in the debate against King’s College
last year. He thought the subject of
the debate very timely and one which
should be thought out carefully by
every student at all interested in
political conditions.

John P. Cunningham, the second
member of the team is a native of
Ottawa. He is in the graduating class
of St. F. X.; has taken part for some
time in interfaculty debates; holds a
Literary X from the Xaverian; and is
an athlete of note at the college
though he assured us that ping-pong
was his hardest indoor game.

Michael R. MacDonald, as the
name suggests, a proud and ’aughty
Cape Bretoner from Sydney Mines.
Heis Business Managerot the Xaverian
and has done considerable interfaculty
debating. They are very likeable
chaps, and judging from their manner
and speech should present their side
of the case with skill. We wish them
luck.

Dalhousie was represented by Raymond McCarthy, Richard Squires and
Charlie Ancerson.

Raymond McCarthy, leader of the
Dalhousie Team, has appeared at nearly every Sodales this year. He is a
native of Halifax and a final year
Arts man. Mr. McCarthy has had a
long experience in debating and public
speaking, having represented Dalhousie
at the Model Assembly of the League
of Nations two years ago. Last year
he led the Dalhousie debaters against
Mt. Allison in the Maritime Intercollegiate Debating series, He is a
forceful speaker; does not memorize
his speeches but presents his case
natusally and convincingly.

Charlie Anderson, a third year Arts
student who, although a newcomer to
the college debating field, has made
himself well-known to the student body
through his athletic achievement.
But Mr. Anderson is not aiotgether
without experience in speaking. He is
a student at Pine Hill and has worked
in the mission fields. At High School,
Mr. Anderson took part in school
debating. Mr. Anderson is Captain of
this year’s basketball team and has
played for several years in senior football. He has a good speaking voice
and an easy forceful style.

Richard Squires, first year law stu
 

 

Dalhousie

Last Friday in the
Room, Professor Scott of
concluded a series of three

Act.
appears on page three.
the McGill lecturer
through an exchange scheme inaugurated in 1980 among the Law Shools of
McGill, Osgoode Hall and Dalhousie
The immediate object of the scheme
was to have a professor go each year
from his own school to another of the
three involved and there deliver three
lectures. The purpose of the scheme
was to develop a closer cooperation
between the Law Faculties of ‘the
three Universities and also to disse minate a better understanding of the
differences between the Common Law
as taught at Osgoode and at Dalhousie
and the Civil Law as taught at McGill
During the first year of the exchange
this University sent Prof. Angus L.,
MacDonald to Osgoode Hall and
entertained Dean Corbett of McGill;
during the second year Dean Smith
went to Osgocde and Dr, Wright of
Osgoode Hall came to Dalhousie.
This year Professor Horace E. Read
went to Osgoode to lecture on Eguity
and Public Wrongs.

Prof. Scott who visited Dalhousie,
isa graduate of Lennoxville, and holds
a B. A. and B. Litt. from Oxford anda
B. C. L. from McGill.

—_—_————_—S PE

Harold Nichols,
Dal basketball team, takes occasion
to point out to the sports editor that he,
though he is a team manager, does not
belong to a fraternity. The writer is
pleased to record the statement, and
gives every credit to Mr. Nichols for
his management of the basketball team
during the past season, which undoubtedly was “handicapped through

St. F..X. Debaters| McGill Prof. Visits Triste hil In

Moot Court
McGill
lectures
on the Residuary power of the Dominion Parliament under the B. N, A,
A detailed account of the lectures
The visit of
came abeut

————— ee _—T——

 

Below will be found the names
of those candidates who were
successful in the Students’ Council
Elections held on the campus last
Thursday, March 17th. Due to
the fact that this new slate of
members has not been officially
sanctioned by the present. Council,
the Gazette is unable to print the
actual numerical result of the
voting. In fact, it is reported that
because of certain complications,
another general election is not
only probable but imminent. The
whole matter will be thoroughly
discussed at a special meeting of
the Students’ Council to be held
on Thursday evening, March “4th.
The personnel of the body elected
by the students last Thursday is
as follows:—

BRIN tees Some sd A. WHIT CAMERON.
(W. C. MacKENZIE
MEDICINE. .4
(FRED. WIGMORE.

DENTISTRY....LEA ALLANACH.

ENGINEERING. .J. B. FERGUSON}
COMMERCE, 55.0 fin D. A. MAHON ;

FRESHMAN REPRESENTATIVE. .
LOU CHRISTIE.
CLASS ’33 LAURA MARSHALL.
GEORGE THOMPSON.
CLASS ’84 MARGARET SADLER.
HAROLD P. CONNOR.
CLASS ’385 JOHN ROWLEY.

+ SO
The Dal girls travelled to Mount

manager of the|Allison last Friday to play their final

game of the season, They were defeated by a score of 28-19 which was
good considering the opposition.

N. B.—One night at 8.30 Victor
Oland was nowhere to be found. His
“Mummy” had enquired everywhere
for her little boy—but where was heIt is hard to put the blame*on any one

lack of training more than any other| person but—can you imagne, it was

 

cause. Next!
° ®
© e

at Shirreff Hall that we found him.

 

A Correction : :

 

_ Since the inside pages of this issue were set up and printed the
Editor has seen President Stanley, and understands that some of
the statements made in these columns are misleading.

1, The President, ‘in conversation with the Executive of the
Students’ Council had suggested a regular monthly hop in the

Gymnasium as an alternative to down-town dances.

Glee Club

dances were never mentioned in this connection.

2. Formal application, according to the regulations posted,
was not made by the Glee Club for the use of the Gymnasium
until word was sent about that the Gymnasium would be so used.
The President on enquiring was told that the Newman Club wished
to put ona play. He was not informed that this was a Glee Club
performance, nor that there would be dancing afterwards. Con
sequently he did not at that time speak of the difficulties about |
the Gymnasium floor and the unfinis

ing. He had already

Council, and asked that dances be not pressed while the Building

was in process of completion.

When word of the dance was sent

to the President he believed that all concerned were fully apprised

hed approaches to the build-|
spoken of these difficulties to the Students’

|Hart Peas Oular:

Council Elections| tette

Coming To
Dal.

In an effort to further musical
education at Dalhousie and in answer
to the many appeals for a better class
ot music at Dalhousie, the Glee Club
announce, as their final offering for the
year, a concert program by the celebrated and _ internationally famous
Hart House String Quartet.

The engagement is slated for Tuesday night, April 5th at 8.15 p. m. and
will be the first professional entertainment to be presented in the Dalhousie
Gymnasium under student auspices.

The Hart House String Quartet is
Canada’s leading musical organization
and their tour throughout the North
American continent this season has
only further strengthened their position as ore of the greatest chambermusic combinations of the world.

The. institution was founded in
1924 by the Hon. Vincent Massey and
Mrs. Massey, and was named for and
in affiliation with the Hart House
Theatre of Toronto University. It is
a great pleasure that we, the student
body of Dalhousie, are soon to be the
hosts of that famous group organized
by a man, on whom Dalhousie was so
pleased recently to confer an Honorary
Degree.

The Quartet, composed of Geza
de Kresz, (First Violin), Harry Adaskin (second violin), Milton Blackstone (Viola) and Beris Hambourg
(violincello), has been aclaimed in
Europe, has been honored in America,
and is beloved in Canada.

Prices for Dalhousie students have
been made ridiculously low, so that
all may have an opportunity to attend,
but it must be borne in mind that asa
financial experiment this enterprise
must justify itself. Not only is full
student support needed, but public
patronage is essential. Each student
should make it a point therefore to
help in the advertising of this concert,
and should endeavour to see that we
have a packed house for this presentation.

Student admission will be 50 cents,
and tickets must be accompanied on
the night of the performance by
Students’ Council tickets. Tickets
may be obtained at the University Book
Store, or at the Med Library or Law
Library, or from members of the
Symphony Orchestra or Choral Society.

Admission to the public is $1.00 and
tickets may be obtained from any
of the above sources or from the
Phinney Music Co., Willis Piano,
MacDonald Music Co. or MacLeod
and Balecom, at Spring Garden Rd.
and Robie St.

—_—_—_.§--o——___

The Halifax Skating Club has experienced a very successful season and
to bring it to a close a carnival is to be
held on Wednesday evening, March 23.

Several Dal co-eds have taken a
keen interest in this sport during the
past two months and may be seen
every Monday or Friday gliding over
the ice at the Forum but on Wednesday
evening the skaters will appear in
costume, providing a most attractive

Glee Club Presents
Show

Newman Club Players
make decided hit

 

Joe Connolly’s Newman Club Show,
Friday night, was one of the best
appreciated Glee Glub entertainments
to come before Dalhousie students
for a long time. The first item was
a one-act play Good Medicine with a

cast of three, Ray Fraser, Pauline
Corrigan and Isobe! Page. The stary

was of a young doctor (Ray Fraser)
and his wife (Pauline Corrigan) who,
reduced to starvation through lack otf
practice, held to the code ot his protession when the opportunity came to
prescribe for a wealthy pseudo-neurotic
Hetty Sage (lsobel VPage). Though
tempted to prescribe at an exorbitant
fee, the honesty of the young doctor
wins him a position in a large nospital.

The piece was carried oft well, and

there were many wisecracks and surprises that went over big with the
audience,

With the close of the curtain Mar
jorie Dunsworth came _ before the
audience with two songs, ‘‘When Irish
Eyes are Smiling” and *'Ho, the Piper.”’
Miss Dunsworth’s offerings were well
done and showed that Dathousie has
good vocal talent within the Campus.
One of the brightest spots in the
program was a Spanish Dance performed by Messrs. “‘Senorita’’ Murray
Ryan and Senor Don. Macdonald.
This was executed in colorful Spanish
costume and to the tune of a Spanish
number on the Orthophonic loaned for
the occasion by the Phinney Music Co.
This number went over welt with
“the boys’ in the gallery and the
dancers were brought out for a second
performance, which was even better
than the first. Miss Audrey ‘Kyan
foluowed with two songs and a violin
obligato by Miss Heien Stokes. Miss
Kya@n's voice was heard in two pleasing
numbers, “‘Song of Songs’ and *‘My
Ain Fotk.”
_ Doubt was expressed that a Glee
Club audience can appreciate a piay.
Such doubt can be wiped out after the
appiause given to the two act farce
Suppressea Vesires, a play dealing with
the attempts of a vexed husband to
rid his wife of a craze for psychoanalysis. Mary Duggan took the part of
Henrietta Brewster, the wife; E. J.
Byrne played the irritated husband
and Mary Currie acted the part of
Mabel a sister of Henrietta’s. The
piayers were well suited to their, parts
and &, J. Byrne was particularly good
all through the performance. We can
only say that we are sorry not to have
seen Mr. Byrne in more Glee Club
shows. He has an excellent voice,
weil in command and seems to be able
to fail right into his part. The audience at Friday night’s affair was
comparatively small. Those who were
not there missed one of the bext Glee
Club treats of the year.

Following the performance of Suppressed Desires, the orchestra was
paraded in and the rest of the evening
was spent in dancing. Prior to the
opening curtain Mr. Gibbon, president
of the Glee Club made one or two
announcements and replied to questions put him by members of the:
audience, It is unfortunate that the
Show was not held on the Campus.
However, Joe and the Newman Club
are to be congratulated on the way
in which they carried out their program
In spite of the difficulties arising in a
ast minute move. The director wishes
to thank the Theatre Arts Guild for
their kindness in loaning the skyscraper
effects used in Suppressed Desires.

 

Students Present
Play

Last Monday night in St. John’s
United Church Hall the Students’
Volunteer Movementand the Students’
Christian Movement at Dalhousie
cooperated to present Ba Thane, a
missionary play, the plot of which
was laid in Burma and centred about
the happenings in an ordinary day in
a missionary’s life. This play was
written especially for the recent conference of the S. C. M. at Buffalo and
was presented for the first time in
Halifax last Thursday night. The
performance was repeated last Monday
night on request, and was from every
standpoint a remarkably artistic and
dramatic success. The play wasdirected by Molly Freeze, Henry Moyse and
Irene Walker. The cast wasasfollows:

 

u
‘

 

 

 

    

. a “ ; Fe ; t spectacle for the public, who will be|Gordon Worth...... Gordon Pringle,
“took the negative _ ne Ty ene — 5 of the difficulty about the floor, and in any case was too ill to discuss admitted for a small gate fee. Forty | Virginia Worth.......... Ida Worth.
‘man was Dr. Trueman, | Newfoundland (he is the son of Premier | the matter fully. tickets for skating are also available| Joan Worth.......... Grace Murray,
of Mt. Allison and the|Auires), England and France. Mr. 3. The President apologises contritely for falling ill, but hopes@t 50. each. Sandwiches and hot} Ba oa wetete ies Mutch.
» Mr. Lisam, Mr, Markiom | Squires was one of the winners of the that if such a conjuncture of afiaj ould ae ae. iiacanes chocolate will be served to skaters at| Ma fay. ......+.. ildred Moors,
BR bee on Conti ies b juncture Of allairs should arise again, discussion} 9 30 and an excellent band will furnish | Richard Ordway...... Roy Webster.
ued on page 4) (Continued on page 4) of difficulties can be limited to the four walls of Dalhousie. f Music. Mr. Fox,.... »+ ++. Bill Archibald,
  
    
   

 

WAP. iy Smee 1 Meat | ae ae © : a ‘ ’ —
a 7 be roy ‘ Le ? ‘a . > , E
Sh ee * : ‘- $
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE , March 28rd, 1982

Fraternities

FROM OUR —
PASSING BLOW |i] CONTEMPORARIES |} 0:°Siontiosie2 tle Siam

COMMENT

The Week in Parliament.

The blank check for unemployment
relief is still the centre of the debate.
‘Mr. Garland (U. F. A., Bow River)
ordinarily not a stickler on constitutionih" A ® al questions, maintains that the Govah eneae ope - Managing Editors: ernment is going ere with its at
> MMAEIAS TD. MachO ee . . B. A., B6295 | tempt to reduce the House to give its
eee me ee TO WILLIAM B. JOST. B. A., B0995| ‘Benediction’ to the slaying of con
 

 
 

Founded 1869, “The Oldest College Paper in America.”

Ay

first annual Dance at the Lord Nelson
Hotel last Friday evening. The guests
were received by Dr. and Mrs, Hugh
B. Bell who graciously chaperoned the
' sp

: ; ne stage was uniquely decorated
Sir Robert Falconer. in the Fraternity Saloits with a huge
sign in the centre. A lovely, four

   
    
     
 
      
 
      
     
   
 

D. A. A. C. Elections. =s
Why aD.A. A. C.?

  
 

stitutional liberty and customs.” To TS ASE SE SOT Ea

 

 

 

 

 

a i a es *,.
os ar ag Associates: — Turnbull (Cons, Regina) the opposition A. A.C: Electi The German Youth layer cake with one candle was esote Pe Bate H. B. CHANDLER is gambling with next year’s crop in D. A. A. C. Elections. Movement. pecially made for the occasion. Joe
si pee #2 LILLIAN SADLER, B. A Saskatchewan, while Mr. King pro- Pr pe i Mills’ Orchestra supplied a real brand
Sia. eee ' [ , B. A. : essation of the opposition| _We print in this issue a notice to the ic r si F
itp : wise’ a. € 0 ppo am of music until nearly ‘‘six bells.”” The
ioe eee DANIEL SPRY when the Government introduces a|¢ffect that the Constitution of the favours were pictures of Nova Scotian
- £4 aN ELIZABETH MARCH regular money bill. Thus the Govern- Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Associa- scenery done by McAskill. Each one
| tee aa, ee T. W. CRAWFORD ment prides itself in having one desire | tion is to be revised. While the pro- was in a silver frame with the FraterMetts - Girls S tog Sports Editor: only, namely, to relieve the unemploy-| cedure of the recent election meetng|Sir Robert Falconer. nity colours in one corner and the
*gi2* > gn nea M. JOST R. D. DUCHEMIN | ed, while the opposition will take the |of that body is fresh in the student’s bee name and date in the other, Without
ae ee eee : B9603 credit of having attempted to preserve | Minds, we take this opportunity to] Sir Robert Faiconer’s farewell ad-|a doubt these were the nicest favours
Te Sn News Editors: the sacred rights of the people under the | Point out one instance where it needs dress as President of the University of |of any dance this year. Congratulaey ie “ ; MARGARET DORMAN Constitution. revising very badly. In the Gazette) Toronto was a masterpiece of simpli-| tions, Delta Sigs.
1: ait Oa a kes ~ EDWARD B. HIGGINS Without discussing the merits of the | of last week we reminded the Student | city and directness which had a moving
es ye ey ‘ } yivAGETR Sn ake proposed aid to the Nova Scotia coal Body of the partisanship that prevailed effect on the students who gathered to Sigma Theta Pi Sorority held a tea
Bie abe Sys 55 * _lindustry it is interesting to note what | at the election last year and pointed|hear him, His message was one of }at the home of Margaret Montgomerie
PKs E Business Manager: RUTH CRANDALL C aor CURE E | er’ | are the reactions of the other provinces, |OUt that while such practices were | confidence in the present generation of } on Sunday afternoon.
no DONALD MAHON HARLES Alberta is asking for the same thing,| followed in the election of officers,|students and a plea for them to take| Miss MacKeen, Mrs. Murray Macie gaan Ee B1826 , B2436 but to them, Nova Scotia can reply fraternity prejudices would be the}courage in facing the tasks of the} Neill and Miss MacKeen were the
ea Proof Editor: Sports Reporter: ey ve their bonus on oe Rote ee veh Bi eae ee ee eat one first few | guests of honor, Mrs. MacNeill poureos | ae ; the island province is wondering at competency of the candi-| years alter graduation be applied under | ed and was assisted by Kay Densmore.
. AARON “IVE, B. Se. MURRAY LLOY why their farmers are not being aided, dates would be relegated to a place of |all conditions to the development of ue :

second importance. self-discipline in carrying a job to the Beta Mu of Phi Delta Epsilon annoon year saw little change in the uttermost. This is of as much value|nounce the pledging of Frank Riggio,
) me dase Pee, Co, elections, except that as inherited brain-power. His estima-]Hyman Magonet, Sam Newman,
eee |rule rather than the exception. Is Fraternityism yielded up the role of|tion of values had changed; in youth| Irving Krebs, Perry Sachs and Harry
ace & sical? villain to Pine Hill Residence. Now, | he had placed exclusive importance | Leventhal.
‘ THE ELECTION RESULTS. Committees of the House of Com-| be it clearly understood we are not|upon intellectual qualities; no ome | eee
pect i fj mons and the Senate are investigating ag Ge oo x any of|stood quite so high in his opinion as Petr E
rs f : ; : . ;|nationalization of radio profits on| the officers elected; but we do criticise | those brilliant students who were able | sibility. Economic and political quesbedi ss The result of the Students Council elections held last eo gasoline and the conduct of certain| severely the methods that were used|to walk off with the honours. ‘‘But|tions did not concern them; they
= re? ~ has on the whole proved very gratifying. ‘ Although as usual less senators re Beauharnoise. Mr. Luch-| to get some of them elected. In one|long ago I came to see that sheer and|sought moral independence in a new
_ than the full quota of undergraduates visited the polls, the total) kovitch (U. F. A., Vegreville) wanted|case it was nothing but barefaced| solitary intellectual power will not do|style of life. The organization of the
was considerably larger than last year, and some extremely close |a committee to investigate the affairs railroading and the persons responsible | most for mankind. To use it well Wandervoegel or ‘Birds of Passage’
me mee Bee ala sion Tideine Tet & rapid. survey of |of the Sun Life and North American did not even take the trouble to cover|one must devote it to large worthy |as they were called was at first frownSee Se : b di ee h d for 1982-33 Life Insurance Companies. Most of|Up their misdemeanors by simulating | purposes, far larger than those that|ed upon but later became linked up
Beer gr) those elected, the representative bo Ly 0 the stu ents tor 5 the members, however, think that | areal interest in the government of the} end in self-culture.” The choice of a} With school life. In the industrial
pata, 8.8 particularly strong one. In their prospective endeavours, WE] these companies are solvent and that|society. Once. their candidate was| cause and the pursuit of it courageously | centres among the apprentices sprang
_--~_—s wish them the very best of Juck, and feel certain that they have | their bivereine ate Raye. Ae pie ce aan Le oer es, wer at a oo rhe of oe was the test of 7h ae Soe 2 paca Oven
ae ip . : hs as to endanger the rights of policy 1€ qualities of their motives | quality. le secret lies in losing one-| +Hese Gid not seek beauty so much,
wae the wholehearted support of the whole university bettors by a prompt withdrawal from the|self in a fine cause. The causes for| but became ardent advocates of sociali; - A TRUE DALHOUSIAN ABROAD.

ae meeting, this generation are manifold—Disarma-|ism_ due to lack of educational opporor Gill Prof. L
pi McGill Prof. Lec
Now, if D. A. A. C. meetings-could| ment, The Abolition of War, the re-| tunity and the twelve-hour day. They
_-~—~— :«&Palhousians of the stay-at-home type have been following

ts a declaring that at no time since a
Ne ane : ’ federation have they been given relief.
at = : i. " os = . N. s. . *r
_ PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB &SON, 7-9-I1 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX kink. oneso fetta becomes the

Lagi

4

  
 
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
   

 

be carried on impartially, and if the|storation of the highways of exchange,| Were suppressed by the police. A
voting were motivated solely by the|the amelioration of the Social Order, | Secret youth-international was formed.
desire to elect the most capable officers | Education, and Religion. Next after] The majority of the young laborers

ee) Malwa or. ale. : . : :
=r a: - with no little interest the European travels of Dr. Archibald tures at Dal possible, then undoubtedly. the annual] choice of a cause he would place cour- organized an educational society which
ao) as MacMechan, former head of the English Department at the D. A. A. C, meeting is the place where}age as an element in success. ‘An| Was called after the war what they had

all the Club elections ought to take | individual who year after year keeps|always been, ‘Socialist Labour Youth.’
place. Those who attended the meet- thinking things out, and who acts| The leading spirits in the post-war
ings would be the most interested and | upon the little that he knows will bye | period disclaimed conventions, holding
the most capable of making selections.|and bye accumulate some courag¢,”’ only to the will to create a better life.
But if, under the existing mode of|He compared the present world situa-| The Wandervoegel could not keep its
election, the current methods of selec- | tion to a fog at sea in which the nations | old principle of political neutrality and
tion are going to prevail, it is time that] like huge ships drift waiting for the | Split up into many little groups, Dura change was made, and the change we | fog to lift. ‘As to the courage of the }ing the war a third group came into
would suggest is that the D. A. A. C.| captain and officers in the fulfilment of | being. The Communist Youth Movepresident, like the Glee Club President, | their routine and extraordinary duties; ment which today forms an unusually,
and the Student Council members be, | there isnot a question. The courage of | large number of intelligent youngsters,
in the future, elected by ballot. the passengers consists in keeping hold! was erganized by young Socialists who

Rist. :. .\,@ollege by the Sea. Last spring, Dr . MacMechan vacated the Professor Scott of McGill Law School
na re ‘post which he had devotedly occupied for over two score years, in| deiivered three lectures on the Resi_ order that he might be free to spend the autumn of his life amid oy poten i oe oe
____ the picturesque beauties of the old world. Since then, his leisurely | \yeGnesday, Thursday and Friday at

Da __- wanderings have taken him to most of the historic spots not only 1. eateries the Miunaio Boon. Ts
in the British Isles, but also on the Continent. And yet, amid all) the first lecture Prof. Scott pointed
his peregrinations, this venerable Dalhousian has never once for-|out the confusion that has existed

es ene ha < : ; ; mes . from the beginning in the interpretaoe os beloved University or the ancient Garrison City in which| ji 07 of this statute and stressed the

eo
a 3 not carry some delightful article from his facile pen; and the] meaning and object of the act. Going

 

 
  
  

4 made his home. Scarcely a week passes by that the local press] importance of adhering to the original

  
 
  
  
 

  

 

ee ra Sa ee : Z : es f themselves, and waiting in patience | Were hounded during the war for thei

‘azette, too, has n pl ] r of his descriptive | back to the resolutions that led up to o , and waiting in patience Se S war for their

” ee retche pie cae ‘S Ses ene o he told us of his | this legislation, for a clearer discovery Way 4D. AAW C.? for any eventuality. In our endurance | Pacifism. They have now concluded

ni |e ae eae Dear eet poo Bawnlay. Niith af this One oe eet eee oe Ad thewh ee aden te < will be our strength.” that ee ee against the
SVE © Unie iTi¢ ut 1 ’ “ that the ramers ot the B. ; A, Act « ISK Of ma cing € preceding imperia ism 0 capita istic governments
of Dalhousie, the founder of our institution; and just a patenied to Ee to the erect ae Facet Pete ene ate The Cosalan “Vous us ; is et ery advocate violence»

vy he jiourne to se h nlv other lhousie Universit overnment juris ction over all mat- 4 estion: Why @ lL. A, A, ovement, against violence, ome church organ
‘4 y he journeyed ee one sly omer: Palio ¥ ters of national importance and to the C.? It is surely an unwieldy body to izations such as Young Catholics and

  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 

       
 
 
   

 
  
  
   
 
 

a

Sees et existence, situated in a remote corner of France, at Dijon. a provinces jurisdiction over matters bee | aaa Ident a ’
a latter incident is noted elsewhere in the present issue. It is int €€d | of purely local interest, and that their athletic awards, which seems to be|Of Al erta writing in the Gateway|with much the same aims as the
_ tefreshing to see a person like Dr. MacMechan, whose enthusiasm | further intention had been to give the |!tS Sole remaining function. Last year }SUmmarises rather well the modern | Wandervoegel. The influence of these
for everything that relates to his Alma Mater remains forever vivid] jurisdiction to the Dominion where it |!t had charge of Rink Nights, but this] Movements among German students| unions permeate all walks of German
and alive. His example might well be taken to heart by many of see a ag sane Province, | Y&@r the Students’ Council usurped}@nd_ their influence. The German|life. The school reform movement

f ee aie ers, Pe s an Oo make e ederal power para- eae a =
_ those disillusioned, disinterested alumnae and alumni who drop mount in case of conflict. This in-|P0Se of abolishing Rink Nights and sn regime about 1890 as a protest of | The whole life of the organizations, in
| _—_ all connection with their college, the minute they graduate from its] tention, reiterated so persistntly in the|!eft the D. A. A. C. with the lone | igh school students against the auth-| spite of many apparently paradoxical
its resolutions that preceded the Act}duty of making the aforementioned | ft tative spirit of the school education. | actions, indicates the growing love of
: DANCING AND THE NEW GYMNASIUM was in the Act itself restricted in ex.|awards. Now there seems to be little In great enthusiasm both sexes decided youth for a wider patriotism than has

pression to one introductory clause justification for its existence at al]]|to lead a new life on their own respon-| yet been.
The recent drastic action of President Stanley whereby he

rah nh in the section from which the Dominion | Unless the action of the Council in
| —séperemptorily ferbade the holding of more than one dance a month
ee _ in the new gymnasium, and as a consequence forced the Glee Club

~

take care of so small a matter as the} _A German student at the University | Protestant Youth have also arisen

   

 

=

a

4

 

 

 

r _ ___ tostage their Friday night performance away from the campus, has| meration of subjects reserved exclusive-|Could be relegated to the Club for a

_____ Foused a very great deal of unfavourable comment in university |ly for Federal legislation. This, Pro-| year then Rene Ont Te oe Poxt,

So) ercles. The procedure is so’ entirely at variance with anything | feo! Scott believed, was because the /anc so be snulted out of existence. 3 e

La | ‘ : athers of Confederation thought that O

ee that has ever been done in the past, and seems so inherently un- they had made it sufficiently clear that a S pring 1 eae
Mh reasonable to the vast majority of undergraduates, that one may]in Canada, as opposed to the United

_____-well doubt whether it has received as exhaustive a consideration ote Heder Legislature was to 5 4

| —sC ast really merits. We would like, therefore, to present one or two] pave tne, Sreaiel power. coe Graduation Week Young mens thoughts turn naturally to
alas, points which possess a certain relevance to the question, in the] nine subjects for Dominion Legislation E ° y

ve hope of facilitating a possible reconciliation of opposing views. exclusively was not to cover the entire xecutive M eets new clothes.

Be In the first place, we heartily concur in what we take to be|ground of Dominion jurisdiction, but
a ____ the President's fundamental attitude toward college dances. It is Re ores Gh comes eae
aes, our firm opinion that there are far too many of them held in the} vested in the Federal House, For} Last Sunday afternoon, Esther EllBeri course of a single term, and more than once, both this year and last, | corroboration with his arguments Prof-|iot entertained the Graduation Week
| _-~—- the ~columns of the Cazette have deprecated the ever-increasing

 

—

A Suit -- A Topcoat
A Hat

New 4 Piece Tweed
Suits $30.00, $35.00

fessor Scott referred to the speeches of | Executive. This was the final meeting
) tempo of the social whirl at Dalhousie. As an institution which Den cases and the opinions | before the exams and detailed reports
‘purports to stand for the promoting of education in the deepest In his oona “lecture Professor pig! in Ac dlgcenainy toe ee
_ and best sense of that much-abused word, we tend to permit a|Scott turned to decided cases and|iastic, but without any reservation
, ‘surfeit of extra-academic activity, particularly in this regard.| pointed out the attitude of the Privy | the “Week” will surpass any other

___ The deleterious result of such a condition is too familiar to require ee = Sac the Act. That fever held at Dalhousie. Seniors are
any elucidation. At the same time, when one takes into account Felatiog i hee ae eee ee yor eee
____ the general social proclivity of the undergraduate body, it seems|Government of the Dominion as al
_ extremely doubtful whether the surplus of dances could be sub-| whole could be legislated on without

‘stantially reduced, saved by measures that would probably elimin- ce he into_comfict with the: righte ments were being served) was_ the

_ ate about eighty percent of the present students. Certainly, the i ee be ae tes relical pera 22 | classification of women to the “gale
| number of functions will never be reduced by the enforcement of an]91 by which that section was restricted | 4» B, C, D.
_ edict preventing such amusement in the gymnasium. In addition|to subjects ‘‘not coming within” Sec-| Mary Lee finally acquiesced to this
_ to causing widespread ill-will, the ruling only serves to drive stu- foo ie fe ph the provinces got | scale. ;
ee ko dents to down-town centres, where the atmosphere is more con- ie ie okie Obie no aoe ete ei
at cee, Bid Ha spevailing eniit leak idterial. Pp ry object of, A minus—Girls who are too dumb to
} — aie

 
    
    
  
  
  
 
    
  
  
   
 

 

A sidelight of the meeting (when
business was over and mental refresh
 

Topcoats

$16.50 to $30.00

the B. N. A. Act had been to that! know anything about “it.”
_ ___If, then, as seems to be the case, this form of diversion is an]extent lost sight of. The true test B—The better class ‘of girl—good
inseparable concomitant of the modern university, would it not be | 0US4t to be the nature and character of | fun but with no romantic tendencies.

Be Gece Fea ss ae d the :egislation and if a matter devel
si _ Wiser to permit it to take place within the college precincts? Here, from one of purely local interest’ into C—The best kind of all, according

at least, definite supervision cou'd be maintained. Or, better sti'l,] one of national influence, it ought}? Charlie Clarke, B. A.—a real rip

     
   
   
    
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
  
  

 

 

 

 

q cs why not eliminate some of the formal dances, and encourage in-|under a proper interpretation of the |S"°rter, chock full of old Nick and ; H t 4 0
7 formal gatherings such as those that follow every Glee Club per-| Act to come under Federal Legislation. | #™¢ for anything. ars ; to 6.00
lance ef these individuals would not be permitted. But we eaubline ee power under three And then the fireworks started,

Charlie Clarke was given a C minus,

The merit of these brief assemblages is not incon-| iy re? 4oti, 28, Lord Haldane mis-| p No questions answered.
far from that utopian state. In the present case, the under

os ee) : : takenly declared, be
erable; perhaps more than anything else, they serve to foster the i tie
ae ee r, a eee . , (1) The Dominion z :
uates want to hold dances more regularly than once a month. gency power in time of Wat.te leaialats pauch “to the latter ¢. smbarasshient. 30 Spr ing Shop Garden Rd
he authori se

: SN thar els emergency matter. It is sufficient that| Barb Barnhill wanted to know what
ue of congenial sociability which it is so fashionable to extol.|it “affects the body politic of the|class the “lemons” went in, but we

i cee ee as ; ars : Lou, Lorway and Jimmy squeezed

es not be better advised to allow them, within] on matters that would otherwise be] out 4 B minus. Your scribe ost then

r all, very few of the students are really interested in serious| Do™inion."” To this wider view the|/eased her distraught mind by giving
still fewer in serious thinking. The paramount desire of Bae cena uae tately “tutned inijher a B-+ rating. Esther (much to
1€ new gymnasium, which they have been led| "de provincial jurisdiction. well, ’tis none of i
ae” ss ea eee en “ve = ; your business; but 2
icted primarily for their use? And would @) The Dominion bas power over/ what he'll get when the committes Discount of 10% to students

Meee: o : M ._ | cases Concerning radio and aeronautics.|her surprise) was given A. And all
t majority is to “havea good time.”” True, ata university In his third lecture Professor Scott | we heard from Chuck Lorway was a
See pee ee oo ic ee ae matters of unquestio i :
en be a saner development of all student | importance. q nably national! reads this—oh, well, reporters never ®
eve that it would. ; | |

re were one) wholly devoted to educational welfare, the] pointed out that the Dominion Goy. | grunt!
ae ee / ' are very popular. That’s when th

  
 

   
   

  
 

 

   
    

Parliament derives its power, and the | respect to skating sessions is indicative
residuary power of the Federal Gov. [of a new use for it whereby activitics | iii ie
ernment was omitted from the enu-|0f which the Council disapproves

that jurisdiction for the evident pur- Youth Movement started under the | reflects the spirit of independent youth,

 
      
    
 

. c = it
x

re

a

| aay

a

 
    
  
  
    
         
             
    

  

7 ao.

 
  
 

- ~
 

| Modern Eq

aw
Ne

 

rum How ee the
are. ‘‘No card playing of any
Jeseri ptic mn will be allowed in the new
." One might suppose that the
’ tables in the Faculty room were
for pink tea purposes only.

     

=

_ Miss Teddy Dorman wishes to an-nounce that her offer of ‘Dutch Dates”
has been withdrawn from Pine Hill
students only.

Our ardent Marxian disciple, Don
Archibald, urges the ‘abolition of the
home, chewing gum for girls, wage
labour, capital, formal dances, private

property, old Fords, Shirreff Hall and

Polar Pies.”’

Thus spoke ‘God's Gift
to Women”’!

 

Kitz claims he couldn't kill the cats.
Now six, coy kittens carouse in Kitz’s
kitehen. How kittenish!

e
Notice
What about the fine you owe
the Library? Why not pay it
now so that you can write the
exams with a clear conscience?
There are one hundred and
eighty-one students owing
fines to the Library. These
fines MUST be paid before the
exams start.

C. O.T. C. Notes

The whole battalion turned out in
good style for the pay-master’s parade
last Wednesday. But, unfortunately,
a large number of gentlemen were
noticeable by their absence when the
training period commenced. This is
true only of A Company. If these
gentlemen know the rules and regulations contained in I. T. Vol. I so well
that they can afford to dispense with
further training, we should be very
pleased to have them as instructors,

 

 

EVERY EVENING
(Except Saturday)

A section of the main dining

| room is reserved for dancing
9 t9 11.20 p. m.

YOU ARE INVITED

G.A. McDonald ||

. TOBACCONIST
_ Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

 

21 Spring Garden Road

 

 

Leather Goods

|
|
|
Portfolios, Trunks
|
|

 

 

Bags and Luggage of
all kinds and sizes.

 

 

 

KELLYS, LTD

I ' 118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

Pine Hill

——

It is not necessarily an evidence of
absent-mindedness to hand a tram
conductor a laundry check for a transfer, but when it comes to licking a
street car ticket and trying to stick
it on thecorner of a letter it’s a pretty
sure bet that there’s at least a trace of
inattention, Gordon Fraser, the gentleman referred to, while admitting
the charges, observes that Sam Johnson
took special delight in counting lampposts and yet nobody thought anything of it.

Pop guzzling is the latest diversion
at Pine Hill. This amusement was
initiated last week by Otto Milner
who holds the record of twelve bottles,
guzzled in twenty odd minutes. The
first six were consumed after a nonstop fashion with brief intervals for air.
The ingenuity with which Otto made
room for the next six was, to say the
least, remarkable. Liv. Miller runs a
rather poor second with six bottles to
his credit. Rumor has it that the
storekeeper was the sponsor of this
expensive entertainment.

In the face of anticipated adversity
Pine Hill, with appreciated outside
support, managed for a pleasant change
to secure representation on at least
one of the University governing bodies,
the D. A. A. C., in the person of Charlie
Anderson. Any charges of clannishness are sufficiently answered by stating
that 110 students are entitled to some
small influence in University policy,
even if the fraternity monopoly is in
the process endangered.

_ Prof. C. L. Bennett gave an interesting illustrated lecture on New Zealand

before the Theological Society on
Friday evening.
eae a ere eee

SHIRREFF HALL NOTES.

Miss Betty Webster and Miss Pat
Cann spent the week-end in Moncton,
the guests of Miss Dorothy Redmond.

Miss Barbara Sayre of Rothesay,
N. B., was visiting Miss Jane Crosby
at Shirreff Hall.

Miss BarbaraWilcox, Maurice Col-)
burne’s leading lady visited the Hal
on Saturday afternoon.

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS
Small Musical Instruments
land Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

 

 

   

 

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

   
     
   
   
  

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

        
   
     
       
 

Sketches and _ quotations
gladly submitte! without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

—TIi’s the cut

i

| NOVA SCO

;
a
q

ee

| CIVIL,

{
i

of your clothes that counis—

 

TIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

‘To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
nent, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience

 

-Winter-Burns, Ltd.

“WILL SHORTLY MOVE TO THEIR NEW
PREMISES
This is your opportunity to purchase your new spring

“Society Brand’”’
Suit or Topcoat

at a big saving

_ Winter-Burns, Ltd.

437 BRRINGTON STREET.

 

 

_ Tuition Fee $76.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.
_ Write or call for Calendar or advice.
ha F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

     

Notes | Pre s

 

ee ee eee

eee ee ————s - 
a ee

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ident Stanley

  
 

adidas eee

Glee Club Activities

 

Would ‘Taraik Gym Dances to One Each Month

 

The following is an account of the circumstances leading up te
and including the withdrawal of Glee Club to
Nelson Hall on Friday
Night.

— —— ——_—

On Tuesday, March &th, A. D.
Gibbon, President of Glee Club, received from the President of the University a notification that a charge of
$20.00 would be made on every Glee
Club performance in the Gymnasium
as from the date of the letter. Mr.
Gibbon communicated the substance
of the letter to the President and
Secretary-Treasurer of the Students’
Council.

On the 10th the President of Gle¢
Club made application by phone to
President Stanley for use of the Gymnasium on Friday, March 18th, for a
Glee Club performance. President
Stanley granted permission, giving
Glee Club preference over another
organization which had applied for the
same date. Mr, Gibbon subsequently
filed a formal application with Mr.
Stirling. There was no express mention up to this time of use of the
Gymnasium for a period of dancing
after the performance.

On the 12th Mr. Gibbon phoned the
President’s secretary, asking that an
enquiry as to use of the Gymnasium
for the period of dancing be relayed
to the President. Mr. Gibbon stated
that he presumed the custom of the
old gymnasium would be followed.
His enquiry was simply to make sure
that such was the case.

The President’s secretary replied on
the 14th by phone. The President's
answer was an “emphatic no.’ Only
one dance should be ailowed a month,
and there were other reasons. Mr,
Gibbon immediately called President
Stanley, but the President was too ill
to answer the phone. Mr. Gibbon
then met Profs. Bennett and Theakston and Mr. Stirling, and sought to
discover the other objections to holding
the dance. Two reasons were raised:
1. A certain amount of mud would
be tracked in which would damage
the floor if not removéd before the
dancing. 2. It would be difficult to
remove the chairs without damage to
them. Monday evening, March 14th,
Mr. Gibbon wrote a letter to President
Stanley. This letter set forth the
case for the students and presented
what the writer believed was the
student view on the matter. The
letter asked for a reply before Friday.

On the 15th the Students’ Council
unanimously passed a resolution that
if dancing could not be procured in the
Gymnasium the Council request the
Glee Club to hold their performance

ee

 

NOTICE

Next Saturday Afterncon
Tea will be served to those
playing Badminton in the
gymnasium ata charge of
15c, per person. This service is given by the-
 

International Student
Service at Dalhousie

 

 

OW the world
would have
enjoyuecL
JENNY LIND
if theyd had
radios like
those now sold by

PHINNEY’S |

Especially the wonderful
new
INTERNATIONAL
Short-Long Wave Receiver
Ask for particulars of this
fineinstrument. It is

built by MARCONI
The greatest name in

Radio

   

 

in some place where dancing could
take place; for it was felt in the Council
that Glee Club dances ought to be
the last to be curtailed. A special committee was appointed to interview the
Chairman of the Board of Governors
the Senate, and the President, and if
possible to effect a solution. Mr. Pearson stated that he was not officially
aware of the $20 charge or of the dancing ordinance. The Secretary of the

Senate stated that the .senate had
taken no action in either matter.
Efforts were made to communicate

directly with the President and through
Mrs. Stanley. Both these failed
through the illness of the President
and Mrs. Stanley. The President's
secretary had received no communication on the matter after the message of
Tuesday.

No action was taken by the Glee
Glub Executive pending the President's
answer to Mr, Gibbon’s letter. On
Thursday evening no answer had
arrived. The Executive, acting on the
request of the Council, engaged Nelson
Hall for the performance.

Friday morning a letter arrived
from the President, addressed to the
President of the Glee Club.

On Friday evening the Newman
Club Show was presented in Nelson
Hall under auspices of the Glee Club.
Only Dalhousians were admitted, The
President of Glee Club appeared on the
stage and made several announcements
—the election of a new Executive, some
alterations in the evening's program,
and the coming performance of the
Hart House Quartette. He was then
interrupted from the floor. The interrupter demanded reasons for shifting the performance to Nelson Hall.
Mr. Gibbon replied at some length
covering the whole story of his communications with the authorities.

Mr. Gibbon stated that he had sent
a letter to the President on Monday.
In this he had stated that he was using
this means of presenting what he
believed to be the students’ viewpoint,
since the President’s illness prevented
an interview. He stressed in that
letter, the value of the period of dancing
in affording opportunity for an informal
get-together. No admission wascharged and members of the Alumni,
Alumnae and Faculty could attend.
The dancing had been an important
part of Glee Glub evenings for the
past eight years and he had reason
to believe that the majority of the
students would be very much opposed
to its abolition. He pointed out that
he had sought from other University
officials the other objections to the
dancing, and that he had submitted
what appeared to be feasible methods to
overcome these objections. As to the
'President’s objection he suggested that
the Glee Club dancing was more of a
get-together than a dance in the accepted sense. A number of students had
volunteered opinions on the matter
and had suggested that the show be
taken to Nelson Hall if dancing was
prohibited in the Gymnasium. © This
he looked upon as a very drastic move
and one which might create ill-feeling.
He had no desire to make such a move
if it could be averted. Finally he had
asked the President to give the matter
fullconsideration. He hoped to hear of
a reconsideration of the matter before
Friday.

Mr. Gibbon then stated that the
Executive had waited until the last
mail delivery on Thursday in hope of
an answer from the President. As no
answer came the Executive had taken
the action suggested by the Council.
This explained their presence in Nelson
Hall.

It was then asked from the floor if
any reply had been received from the
President. Mr. Gibbon replied that
a letter from the President had arrived
that morning. This letter reiterated
the refusal of permission to hold the
dancing. Mr. Gibbon was asked if
this letter was addressed to him in his
official capacity as President of Glee

(Continued on page 4).

 

YELLOW CAB!

LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service |

Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

 

 

  

Restricts|

TURRET!

Turrets come out on top

in

any test. They’re

simply crammed with
satisfying goodness...
their mild, rich flavour
wins honours every time.

Mild

and Fragrant

urret

CIGARETTES

 

 

®@
In Dijon
By DR. ARCHIBALD’ MACMECHAN

Professor Emeritus Finds Another Dalhousie.

 

ay > ’
And in the dream and shadows of sleep,
He saw his native land.”
The Slave's Dream.

[t must have been the influence of
the two Gazettes read,and re-read, and
read again, working on the sub-conscious, for the Professor Emeritus did
see in a vision the halls of Dalhousie.
He saw the new Head in action, standing up beside a busy-looking desk and
trying to deal with several persons at
once. He saw the crowds of young
people in the corridors, and was about
to speak to one whom he thought he
recognized, and then discovered his
mistake............

The academic world seems to consist
of the same elements everywhere on
the earth. ;

There is a university at Halifax
which is called Dalhousie and there is
another in Dijon; and there are students in both. The Professor wanted
to refer to a couple of English books;
for he cannot carry his library aboutwith him. So, in the rue ChabotCharny, in front of the Bibliotheque,
he accosted a blonde young man,
decently habited, who might have
been a Dalhousian, speaking French.
He was of opinion that the whitebearded stranger would be given the
privileges of the library without any
trouble; and so it was.

A door opening from the street admitted the Canadian errant into a
rather gloomy vestibule. In front was
a long staircase with a turn which
ended on a landing. Another door at
the right timidly opened let him into
the reading-room.

All Teading-rooms are the same in
essentials. They are affairs of chairs
to sit on ,and tables on which to places
books, There must also be catalogues
and persons to distribute books, In
these fundamentals Dijon resembled
Dalhousie; but there the resemblance
stopped. Where was the height, the
space, the airiness of Dalhousie’s
reading-room? Where were the pictures, the casts, what the English are
fond of calling the ‘“‘amenities?” They
did not exist in the French university,
which is the pride of that ancient city
Dijon. There was no decoration of
any kind. The tables were long and
plain, furnished with electric lights in
standards. The general impression
was of shabby, hard-working proverty.
There was no vestige of ventilation,
and at this late hour in the afternoon
the air was chiefly carbon di-oxide.

Dijon is co-educational; but there
was no segregation of the sexes, as at
Dalhousie. The young people mingled
freely and sat where they pleased.
Young men and young women appeared
very much like Canadians of their
own age, for the most part, goodlooking,
healthy and not too serious-minded.
The silence rule was not observed, or
the rule of non-consultation. Every
movement of anyone in the room was
noted by some lifted’ head. The
French power of attention did not
seem very great. A few earnest souls
kept their eyes on the printed page and
their notes.

So there in the heart of France, a
Dalhousie professor consulted a card
catalogue, very well used, made out
slips for the books he wanted, and
took down different volumes from the
open shelves, just as he would have
done at home. It was also a familiar
touch to be told that the particular
book he asked for was missing. He
wanted to run his eye over Rieu
Durward, for the sake of local color;
but the Tauchnitz edition ef Scott was

incomplete, and he had to fall back
on a French translation. ‘All happy
families are alike."’ In Dalhousie and
in Dijon, the Waverley novels show
gaps.

At five, most of the students left the
room to the earnest souls who wanted
to read their books. At half-past*five
the library closed, all books were
handed in to the dark-faced supervisor
at the corner desk, and the lights were
turned off.

A young man courteously opened the
street door for the Professor, just as‘
it might be at Dalhousie.

McGill Prof. Lectures

(Continued from page 2).

(3) The Dominion has power over
all matters not specifically made provincial.

In a fourth category sometimes
suggested—that of Dominion power
for Peace, Order and Good Govern
ment, Professor Scott did not believe.
He next suggested that since in case
of conflict the Dom. Legislature was
paramount through itsresiduary power
and since the fact of National importance would raise to within Dominion
jurisdiction subjects that had in the
beginning been only of provincial importance, that the enabling powers of
(2) and (3) above telescoped into one
enabling power by which the Dominion Legislature took jurisdiction over
all matters that in aspect had become
of Dominion rather than of provincial
import. By a fortiori argument, the
enabling power (I) above would
also be convered by the aspect theory.

In seeking out a test by which to
decide within which jurisdiction a
subject fell, Professor Scott point
out that neither the territorial aspect
nor the uniformity section (94) affords
a working rule. For instance no
standard rule of the road could have
been established against the wills of
the provinces, nor could legislation
about civil and property rights be
made uniform against their will. Nevertheless the cansideration of convenience might merge into one of unquestionable national importance, and
so bring a matter of standardization
under the emergency enabling clause.

Professor Scott pointed out that the
views taken of the Provincial and
Dominion residuary clauses left a large
territory to be covered by the clause
reserving civil and property rights to
the provinces. This clause had been
given a sacrosanct character at variance.
with its osiginal purpose to exemplify
matters for local jurisdiction.

Finally Professor Scott submitted
that a working rule for determining
jurisdiction might be found in the
enumeration of subjects for Dominion
legislation which were laid down as
examples and not as exclusively covering the ground. If a matter is of as
much national importance as any of
these twenty-nine subjects, it ought
to fall under Dominion Jurisdiction,

Finally Professor Scott expressed
as his opinion that (1) after an emergency, subjects formerly of provincial
import would revert to provincial
jurisdiction ; (2) that emergencies might
be anticipated by legislation; (8) that
a matter could not be made of unquestionable national importance by having
a Statute say it was, and (4) that the
residuary powers of the Dominion were
not merely paramount but exclusive.

 

 
 
          

   

4 . a os 4 ——— Z 4 7 ¥ j
SLAY em (Continued from last week.)

lives 3 has {

re i

On Friday the last day of the assem
bly two very important subjects were
_ discussed. Important not only because
_-—s they _~were of international import but
ie also because they were grounded in

:
a oF
ie ing
My — f .
eh
re

<_ - a?

, ri

Me ar =a

two very fundamental considerations
 

* - -economic reconstruction and world
cael ace.
Biaf - ithe first debate was on a proposal
ss by Great Britain for economic recon---——s gtruction. When we consider that
-__ within the last year Great Britain. has
aoe: been in a precarious position, financially
fet and economically, having been forced
a off the gold standard we have some
Ie dea of the importance of this movess ment. Closely connected with this
r is the problem of reparations. The

li delegate from France put forward the
ae view that France was in favor of bi——s metalism, : :
mh The second debate which occupied
‘the whole of the afternoon was centred
- around the activities in the Far East
or what is commonly known as the
Sino-Japanese dispute. J. L. Crowe
| -- (Kings) representing China proposed
' —— a motion that Japan, in keeping with
_—-—sher obligations under the covenant of
i the ~League of Nations, should imty mediately withdraw her forces from
fer: Shanghai and the Manchurian frontier.
_ ~~ Also that the members of the League
; should enforce Article XVI of the
; ‘covenant, which provides for a blockade
against an agressor nation.
This motion was opposed by the
- delegates of Japan (C. Stewart, E. A.
_ ~~. Payzant) on the following grounds;
ieee that as China was not an organized
‘people within the covenant of the
feria» Re and at the present time had
no stable government, Japan’s in‘tervention was rightful and necessary
to protect her nationals and to preserve
; her treaty rights. Also that it was
=. not an act of agression but purely a

Ua Ts
I

ee ae
'
X
‘

 

 

   
 

WINNERS FROMTHE
ee ee START

/ For 60 years the REACH Trad
Mark on Sporting Goods hes been
‘a mark of perfection No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you

CRAGG BROS CO.,
. Limited

|| Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

     
     
     
     
       
   
 
  
   
      
   
    
    
  
 

|| JOE E. BROWN
Oe ae. in
|| “Fireman Save

My Child”

A Riot of Laughs

One week commencing
_ Friday Mar. 25

MAURICE CHEVALIER

 

With You”

 

 

 

j —_

 

 

| Spring Showing
ae of Men’s

oe | Renown Caps

Ft

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

Pulte i |

 
 

3 ; + “MM &

o al

   

es a A Selection of
| New Spring Felt Hats

| Agoodrangeof these newspring
_ | caps froma popular EATON line.

| A wide choice of snar py tweeds in 4
fj] Smart patterns and shades for

Eaton's Main Floor

Ee ATO

rt M &
, 
Fencing at Dal.

 

Fencing at Dal, which went into a

' | deep coma in 1928, has rallied.

'- Some time ago a goodly crew met

Dalhousie Fenciag Club The jfoowing
officers were elected:

President—W. «. Inman,

Vice-Pres.—F, T, Kopf.

Secy-Treas.—W. B. Beazley.

Mr. Stiriing will instruct on Saturdays from 2.8 to 4.0U p. m., and foils
will be_available for practice at any
time, ~ ‘

All that are interested in the noble
and ancient art meet with us on Saturday, March 12th at 2.30 p,'‘m, in the
basement gym.

Dal Co-eds Debate
Mt. A.

(Continued from page 1),

eee eee

 

and Mr. McIntrye, who voted unanimously for Mt. Allison, The debate
was not as one sided as it would seem
from the decision for the Dalhousie
Team had very good arguments and
presented them well.

At the close of the debate a banquet
was held at Hilltop Inn which was
attended by some of the members of
the Mt. Allison Facultv, the judges,
the Boys Intercollegiate Team and
the Mt. Allison and Dalhousie girl's
teams,

1 SO

The tea room at Shirreff Hall one
Sunday was brightened by the presence
of Joe Connolly, Vance Maxwell, Ed.
Higgins, Lu Christie and Charlie
Lorway. Let us hope they enjoyed
themselves so the Hall may again be
favored by them.

defensive measure. Japan had no
desire to obtain further territorial or
sovereign rights in China. Japan
aims to protect her interests until the
Chinese people through and by means
of a stable government can warrant
that her interests and property right
will be protected.

Many of the other delegates spoke
on this motion. Special mention must
be made of the attitudes of Great
Britain, India, Australia, France, Germany and several of the smaller European Powers. The concensus of opinion being that Japan had broken or at
least transgressed the spirit if not the
letter of the Covenant of the league
and in the interest of world peace it
was desirable and expedient that she
withdraw her troops.

At the close ot the debate the President in a few well chosen words declared
the fourth Maritime Model Assembly
closed. :

GARRICK

NORMA SHEARER
ROBERT MONTGOMERY

in

“Private Lives”

 

 

 

Friday and Sat. — March 25-26

“The Champ”

with ;

WALLACE BEERY
JACKIE COOPER

 

 

Evenings i0c. and 30c.
Matinee 25c.

 

 

For Men

Moderately priced from

3.50 to 6.50

All new arrivals for Easter

and spring wear, Smartly
styled hatsinsnap, welt and
bound edge models.
new shades, greys, fawns and
browns. Sizes 6/3 to 7/%

The

f- .
Ca

  

N

    

with Mr. Stirling and organized The}

) Sntestdbulty |
Basketball

Basketball.

 

In their replayed game with the
Pine Hill Theologues, the Profs won the
interfaculty basketball title by a score
of 20 to 18 at the Dal gym last week.
The first game was also won by the
Profs, but was protested successfully
by the Theologues on the ground that
Stoddard was not eligible to play for
the Profs’ team. The game was close
throughout, and particularly in the
first half, which ended with the score
tied at 6-all. Ken Sullivan was the
high scorer of the game, getting ten of
his. team’s thirteen points while Ells
with 8, and Stirling with 6, led the
attack of the Profs. The line-ups and
scoring follow:

Pine Hil!—Sullivan (10), Watts (2),

MacSween, Wagner Maclvor (1),
Marsten, Bruce, Mitchell, McLean.
Total 13.

Profs—Stirling (6), Kent (4), Ells (8)
MacDonald (1), Rankin (1), Ross.
Total 20.

Handler and Fairest in refereed.

D. A. A. C. Mem
bers

ae ee

 

The Interfaculty Section of the
D. A. A. C. constitution is to be revised.
Interfaculty managers are requested to
cooperate by suggesting regulations
which will help to prevent future interfaculty entanglements. Such suggestions should be immediately forwarded

“I to

D. M. MacRae,
156 Spring Garden Rd.

President Restricts Glee Club

a + eee + ee

(Continued from page 3.)

 

Club. Mr. Gibbon replied that it was
so addressed. It was then demanded
trom the floor that the letter be read
to the members of Glee Club unless
Mr. Gibbon could advance reason why
it should not be read. Mr. Gibbon
stating that he could no advance such
reason, complied with the request.

The President's letter stated that the
students had not paid the slightest
attention to the often expressed desires
of the Senate with regard to all types
of dances at the University.
elders, including graduates, could not
understand their attitude in such times
of distress. He pointed out that Mr.
Gibbon’s letter had been written within
24 hours of a dance in the Gymnasium
and within two weeks of a dance
following a Glee Club performance.

| He stated that he had been charged

by the Board of Governors to use the
new Gymnasium in the best interests of
education, and that he was not bound
by observances in the old building.

Mr. W. G. Stewart, President of the
Students’ Council, came up from the
audience and appeared on the platform. He said that he felt compelled
to make some statement as the Councis
had been brought into the proceedinge
that evening. He expressed the hope
that the students were not present in
any spirit of rebellion and told of the
part taken by the Students’ Council
in the negotiations, as it has been
previously described in this article.

—— — >

Girls Svort

Ice Hockey.

The ice hockey season this year has
been a fairly enthusiastic one and the
game of last Wednesday night between
H. L, A, C. and the Dal team winds
up the programme for this year. The
game itself although slow at times
was very interesting to watch and the
spectators expressed their opinions cf
both players and referee by constant
roars Of laughter and dismay. The
game ended with a score of 4-0 for the
H. L. A. C, girls. The Dal girls are
to be commended on holding their own
so well,

Badminton,
The first round of the badminton
tournament is over, thirty contestants

participating. We are glad to see such
interest exhibited in the Badminton

PHA

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Their

-—— ee

Veur Book Soon St. F X. Retdine Working Upward

to Appear

After many delays the work of
printing and binding the 1932 edition
of Pharos has been begun.

Every year the Year Book staff
makes its plans to publish the book
somewhat earlier than was the cas
in past years. Every year it encounters the same difficulties, and so the
time set for publication has passed
with the book not yet ready.

Many reasons may be given for the
delay. One is the late settlement date
of the Interfaculty leagues, particularly
basketball. Another is the difficulty
encountered in the collection of reports from the many societies and
organizations which are so essential
a part of this book.

This year the Year Book will introduce several new features. The
theme of the book is very original,
the art work and sketches cleverly
done. The feature section is splendid
and the many innovations indicate
the care and skill which the editor and
his associates have devoted to this
fine work,

There was but one regrettable
feature encountered by the staff this
year—the paucity of orders for copies
of this year’s book. te BRO bh!

Last year there were only 250 books
gold. This term only 300 have so far
signified their desire to buy a copy.

It certainly is not the wish of the
Year Book staff to sell a copy to anybody who does not desire one. The
staff does feel however, that there are
many who do not realize the benefits
which ownership of such a book may
give—not only now but in the years to
come.

Latest reports indicate that this
year’s edition will be on sale about the
end of the month. Watch the Gazette
for further announcements and be on
hand to get yout copy.

 

About the I. Soa.

In the present issue it will be my
deavour to answer the questions about
I. S. S. which were printed in last
week’s GAZETTE; and in the last
number, of the year, the Dalhousie
committee hopes to be able to publish
an outline of their plans for next year
on this campus.

The first question asked for an
explanation of the ‘‘world-wide cooperation” mentioned in the first
article on I. S. S. some week sago.
As can be seen from that brief sketch,
historical and general, between student
groups, large and smail, it conducts
at present, besides relief work when
necessary, three main departments:
1. The Department for Student
Self-Help and Co-operative Organization, with a special branch for the
promotion of the social service idea in
the universities;

2. The Department for Cultural
Co-operation and _ International
Studies: and

38. The University Research Department.

Any one of these departments may
find itself more important in one
country than in others; in one university perhaps, within that country.
Wherever it is active, there will be
groups cooperating for one purpose.
In this way we have a sum total of
groups working together for the betterment of university life in its different
aspects.

Dalhousie is certainly not unable
to take part in such cooperation; I
think the questioner must have had
some particular scheme in mind, when
saying that Dalhousie was too much
cut off from other universities to make
such cooperation practical, I, H R.

(Continued in next issue)
tenia aig ith eee ae

Miss Machum of Allison Hall and
members of the Ont. A. Girls Basketball Team stayed at the Hall while
they were in Halifax to play the Dal.
and King’s Co-eds.

 

Dal. Debaters

(Continued from page 1).

Bennett Shield for Inter-Class Debating
last yeai and has represented Dalhousie
at sessions of the Model Asssembly of
the League of Nations. He is lifepresident of his class and has taken a
keen interest in student activities.
Mr. Squires is thoroughly versed in the
art of the debate and can be trusted
to carry his arguments in a deliberate,
logical and persuasive manner,

ROS

The Year Book of Dalhousie

On Sale at University Store

APRIL 1st

Be on hand to get your copy as only a limited
number have been printed.

PRICE

 

ee =. Ce ae eo

Phinney Shield

Dalhousie Boxers Lose
in close contest

St. F, X. successfully defended the
Phinney Shield, emblematic of the
Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing Championship, by an impressive margin in
winning all classes contested in the
tourney held at the St. F. X. gymnasium last Friday night. The four men
who represented Dalhousie, while losing
out in close fights in their classes
nevertheless put up stiff opposition,
and in two cases the judges disagreed,
with the referee, C. W. Bissett of
Sydney ruling for the St. F. X. boxers.

Eddie Arab of Dal and Mickey
Stephenson of St. F. X. clashing in the
flyweight event, staged a_ stirring
boxing exhibition, fighting it out toe to
toe throughout the three rounds and
the judges disagreed when it wag over,
the referee awarding the decision to the
St. F. X. boxer.

Hooker McDonald, St. F. X. featherweight found plenty of oppogition in
Orton Hewat of Dal for two rounds,
but in the third McDonald gained a
big margin, and the referee was forced
to stop the fight awarding it by a
technical kayo to McDonald. It was
the only knockout on the card:

John Glorioso of Dal, last year's
champion of the lightweights, extended
Boyd McGillivary to the limit in a
hard hitting bout. Glorioso was dropped to the canvas in the first round,
but did not takeacount, McGillivary
had the edge in all three rounds, an
won the decision.

In the lightheavyweight evént, Bill
Reardon, St. F. X.,and H. Magonet of
Dal battled through three rounds
featured by hard slugging, with Magonet on the receiving end, but in the
third he came back and won the round,
Magonet was knocked down in the
second round, but got up without
taking a count. The decision was
awarded to Reardon.

In the other two bouts on the card,
Carl Holm, of King’s, 1931 welterweight champion, lost the decision to
Prendergast of St. F. X., in the final,
after defeating Grant of Tech in the
preliminary.

The strain of years, the ache of toil,
The heart’s desires vainly suppressed;
Far from us lied the envied goal,

Its trophies not by us possessed.
Still linger on

And win your way,

We're working upward every day

Hope not to cram a span of years

With more than time can fairly give;
Your life’s reverses come and go

They leave their mark, but still you live
Hope ever, friend |

And win your way,

We're working upward every day.

The voice of pleasure sounds its rhyme
Seeking to lure you from your task,

Our lives are gifted once with time,

For longer stay, we cannot ask;

Take hold of time

And win your way,

We're working upward every day.

What motto can the whole world give

To lead- the humble labourer on,

Regard the will you’ve spurned, and

live

The better life-e’er it is gone;

Lay hold on faith

And win your way,

By working upward every day.
DONALD MacLEOD

See See een»
GRADUATES RECEIVED AT
PRESIDENT’S HOME.

A week ago Saturday President

and Mrs, Carleton Stanley received
at their home on Oxford Street for the
members of this year’s graduating
class.

From 4.50 to 6.30 p. m., about one
hundred and twenty-five graduates
visited the Stanley home. Due to an
attack of flu, President Stanley was
unable to come downstairs, but Mrs.
Stanley received the visitors and ushercd them into the drawing room. There
delicious refreshments were served by
some personal friends of Mr. and Mrs.
stanley. This courteous act of the
President and his wife afforded the
graduates a chance to meet each

ether and to get better acquainted.

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

 

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel. |

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

 

 

LET US

HELP

YOU!

 

Now that Spring is with us once more,
one’s thoughts naturally turn to the ordeal of spring house cleaning.

Let us help you make this task easy.
Trade in any old furniture that you have
no further use for, and select your new
pieces from our large new stock of fine
furniture and home furnishings.

And, please bear in min dthat our Budget Payment plan is at your disposal.
No interest or extra charges of any kind.
Your first cost is your only cost.

 

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy Homes’’

De

 

_ 448-450: Barrington‘St.
Halifax, § = - s

- Canada.

March 23rd, 1982

 

 

 
