    

VOC LXII.

i

4 A Glee

 

-” « RE ee Ot eT Cee ee a ee ee
* = - ot 
 

Club Presents First

ee ee —

~ tent
'

i

 

 

| _ Show of Term

 

Large Audience
Enjoys
Performance

Thursday evening saw the first
production of the Uriversity Glee Clyb
in 1982. Anda goodly crowd was there
_ Corsidering the hall, the stage facilities, the ticket takers and the Stage
_ Assistants it wasn’t a bad show, It
was regrettable that the Varsity Hockey teani had to play the same evening
and so split the crowd between them.
_Incidently the Glee Club rather had
the better of the split. Nevertheless
the old taithfuls turned up and laughed
when they were supposed to, and
clapped when the crowd clapped.

The gereral programme was some-|

what elevated, or should I say above
the previous production. This time

we felt that we were gettingsomething }

just a little better, a little more worth
while.
Exec ttve for so arrarging the pro‘gramme. Yet it was murmvred by
seme of the youngsters in the avd
ience that it was a bit dull, lifeless,
and vapid.

Pine Hill had a decided edge on the]

programme but who cares about that.
Mitsuwo Kitazawa rolled up the curtain and gave several numbers in
English, to the accompaniment cf
Howard Jcnes, on the piano. Good
stuff Mitsuwo, good stuff.

Miss Mary Currie followed on the.
heels of Mitsuwo with her Harp.
The audience gave her much applause,
and as was to be expected an encore
ensued. (Stop me if I’m wrong here).
There was a considerable amount of

_ wnnecessary confusion and noise during
this number and this Critic feels that

Ate
oe

-.. Pine Hill again stepped to the fore
- with its Quartet, comprised of Warren
__. Langille, Mitsuwo Kitazawa, Howard
Kennedy, and Ward McLean. Now

_ we know why the residents of the south,
end of the city complain about the
ss yowdyism of the Hillers between three
and four in the morn. But still they
were given a good reception by the
very critical audience. Katazawa fol
lowed with two songs in Japanese.
' Then came the event of the evening
“The Betrayal’ by Padraic Colum
with an all star cast of Varsity Drama| tists, was just a little above the type
of show usually put on by the Glee
Club. Perhaps I am wrong but it
seems that the Glee Club is somewhat
of a pioneering spirit this year. We
are glad to see such an attempt made
at something better than the ordinary
College show. Congratulations are offered to those stalwart people who
took part in it. Under severe handicap in the way of staging and lighting,
and the auditorium arrangements as
a whole, it is a great triumph for the

Glee Club to have done so well.

" Shades of '87, Dick Squires as the
Magistrate, wig and all that, took his
part with sincerity and at times a
masterful style. We know just how
that nasty collar itched Dick. The
old Brother Raymond. For a while
during all the chatter between His
Honour and the Inn Keeper the ary
Critic almost thought that McCarthy
had joined one of those ‘‘houses of
debauchery, dens of iniquity, and
shelters of the wicked,’’ commonly
called a Frat House. Don’t you just
love the way McCarthy can hold his
liquor? Someone in the audience added the ‘‘oops” to make it a bit more
realistic. Irving Pink with his couplets and fish carried his part well and
more than once drew a snicker from the

crowd,
' Peg, a ballad singer, played by Miss
| Elizabeth Saunderson, was admirably

done. With a comparatively difficult

part, Miss Saunderson succeeded in
. showing some of the feelings and
; expressions of the pleading mother, in a
manner worthy of something more
| than a Glee Club stage. Congrats,

PS vckghout this one act play, there
was a spirit of keenness and interest
shown by the players which was appreciated by the audience. In a short
time, with better and bigger facilities

_ and staging equipment even the Sleepy
_ Critic feels that there are Blue Skies
ahead for the Dal Glee Club,

|

 

- Debating Teams

i he
The Committee of Selection announces the following teams
_ Intercollegiate— McCarthy (leader), Squires, Anderson.

  

All praise to the Glee Club},

it is the duty of the Door Keeper to}

To Be Leading Lady

MiSS RUTH MACAULAY

who is to appear as ‘‘Lady Lillian’’
in next Glee Club play.

 

Dal Quivers to
Cuba Quake

An earthquake took place last week
in Santiago, Cuba, that was felt in the
basement of the Science Building, Dalhousie. Felt, it should be said, not

by the janitor or the furnaceman, but

bya seismograph. A disturbance of
some ‘importance in the vicinity of a
small island in the Carribean. caused
the old Earth to quiver like a bow] of
jelly and set up direct, transverse and

surface waves, that with their numer
ous reflexions and refractions through
the earth’s strata, kept the seismograph
in Halifax recording for several hours.

Through the courtest of Dr. J. H. L.
Johnstone of the Physics Department,
the Gazette learned much about the
seismograph, of which there is an
excellent model here. This apparatus
is, in its elemental form, comparable
to a barnyard gate. An erect post is
sunk in a pillar of conerete, that is in
turn set solidly in the Halifax rock.
A gate-like arm with about two hundred pounds’ weight attached is hung
on the post. Such a simple contrivance, graced with the complex detail
necessary for mathematical precision
and sensitivity, is the seismograph.
In conjunction with the seismograph
is its recording device. A mechanical
pencil magnifying a hundred times the
shock waves to which the yard arm
responds, marks a record on a continuously revolving drum of smoked
paper. The record is gauged in time
periods by an electric clock, double
checked by Western Union telegraph
ines and the Dominion Observatory,
Saint John. The time factor is most
important to.the ‘quake specialists
in the analysis of records. By the
speed of arrival from the earthquake
area, the various waves—direct, transverse and surface—show separately
on the record sheet and tell their own
story. Through a knowledge of the
rapidity of these waves and their
actual'time of arrival, an excellent idea
is formed of the structure and matter
of the earth.

The relation of speed to density, and
other fundamentals of. physics applied
to seismographical records enable ex
erts to mark off the earth's interior
into strata.

The seismograph is not a scientific
toy, nor is it maintained to give the
newspapers. headlines on the earth’s
twistings and turnings. The Canadian Government established the Dal.
housie station twenty years ago. And
a series of four more stations are maintained across the Dominion at Ottawa,
Toronto, Saskatoon and Victoria for
prescribed scientific purposes.

The apparatus here records an
average of two slight disturbances a
week, And. besides this the pencil
marks out any number of small wobbles
in the earth’s frame resulting from the
changes in temperature caused by
winds and waves. Few people have
explored the inner reaches of the earth.
Seismologists are forever at this Herculean task. Their printed reports are
fascinating and read like epics of vast,
uneasy forces. ey

It should be comforting to Dalhousians to know that down among
the coal bins of their Science Building
a mechanical nurse is perpetually
taking the earth’s pulse—sympathetic
with its every groan and ache,

 

 

Mo

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 10th, 1982.

 

Symphony
_ Orchestra

We seem to have been reading much
lately concernirg music in these columns, but in addition to Choral Society,
the Community Concert Association,
etc., we feel that somethirg should
be said about an organization that is
steadily growing up within us—an
organization which bids fair to bring
mich credit to the University. We
refer to the Dalhousie University
Symphony Orchestra.

Two years agu, under the leadersnip
of the justly famous Sina Singer, the
orchestra was fi lly organized, and was
doing \e1y good work. Last year it
seemed to lapse, but this year it has
been revived under the leadership or
Mr. Harry Dean, the director of the
Halifax Conservatory of Music. It
meets every Thursday evening in the
Munro Room in the Forrest Building,
at 8.00 p. m., where enjoyable practises are held. We intend to perform
at the formal opening of the new Gymnasium at the end of the current month.
But to do this we must have more
members. We have at present about
10 violins, and saxophones, clarinet,
trumpets and piano. While we are
deing very well, yet we should really
have more members, We need brass
instruments especially, but all instrumentalists in the University should
turn out. Surely out of 1000 students,
who are supposedly drawn from the
better and more cultured class of
young people, we should be able to find
50 or 60 players to compose a Symphony Orchestra. We should there
fore like everyone who can play any
musical instrument to come to the
Munro Room at 8.00 p.m. next Thursday. We have only two, or at most
three practises before the opening of
the Gymnasium, and our work neéds
polishing.

We expect to.accompany the Choral
Society with their choral selections, as
well as to present numbers of our own.
The program is therefore extensive and
inclusive, and we need the support of
every player in the University to make

 

jt a@ success. So come a'ong to. thet ve in
Montreal and Toronto. The members

Munro Room next Thursday evening—
don’t let anything stand in the way—if
you havenot an instrument with you,
one can probably be procured for you.

G. A. A.B:

 

Special Course
in Fisheries

—_——

Under the sponsorship of the Biological Board of the Federal Govern‘ment, a short course is at present being
given at Dalhousie to the superintends of fish hatcheries in the Maritime

rovinces. Representatives of eleven
atcheries are now enrolled. The
object of the course is to supplement
with some science the practical experience of those who have worked
themselves up to responsible positions
in the work ph oremenving game fish and
in replenishing the inland game waters
of the three provinces. Two classes
are offered—one combining Anatomy
and Physiology under Dr. Hayes and
one in General Biology under Drs.
Bell and Hayes.

Among other topics dealt with in
these classes are the indentification
of fish and prevention and control of
diseases in them. The course is under
the immediate supervision of Dr. R.
J. MacGonigle, Maritime Pathologist.
Dr. Huntman, Director of Biological
Stations in Canada is one of the
sponsors, and Mr. Thomas Catt, the

 

 

Fraternity News

Delta Tau, under the capable direction of Ken Mahen, is giving a Valentine Party at the Frat house on South
Park St. on Fri., Feb. 14th: In conversation with Mr, Mahen, your reporter managed to elucidate the facts
that they have already started decorating appropriately, that a five pice
orchestra will be in attendance that
Special Valentine fayours, salads, ice
creams have been ordered, and last
(but not least) the worthy Ken has
salted away a cache of cocktails (tomato). In fact, Ken promises a real
party. The chaperones will be Prof.
and Mrs. W. P. Copp.

Thurs. Eve., Feb. 11, Phi Delta
Theta is ho ding the Annual Fraternity
Dance at the Lord Nelson. With
Joe Mis’ 7 piece orchestra, a real
evening is assvred. Supper will be
served in the ballroom at midnight.
in addition to the regilar members of
the Fraternity, many alumni are
expected tobe present. Prof. and M-s
Vincent MacDonald will be chapero s.

 

Delta Tau will hold their annual
dance at the Nova Scotian Hotel the
first week in March.

 

Phi Kappa Pi scored a big success
last Friday night when they entertained
250 guests at the Nova Scotian Hotel
at their Annual Ball. Many alumni
attended from out of town, and many
were the favourable comments on the
splendid work of the Fraternity. The
annual meeting was held the following
day where a report of the progress of
the Fraternity was given.

Mr. Ralph Connable of Buffalo was
the guest of the Delta Tau Fraternity
207 South Park St., during the past
week-end. Mr. Connable is a prominent alumni member of a large
International Fraternity, and was very
active in establisning the two chapters

{ this "raternity already active in

of Delta Tau entertained Mr. Connable
on Sunday at a very pleasant dinner.
After dinner, he gave them a very
interesting and much appreciated address.

 

Biology Club on
Field Trip

A-regular meeting of Biology Club
was held at Forrest Building, Wednesday evening, Feb. 38. A good attendance was present and Charlie Allen
led an interesting discussion on the
forms of the integument. Refreshments,were served at the conclusion
of the meeting. On Sunday, January
31, a field trip was held to Thrum Cap.
The party landed on the inner side of
the Island and hiked across the island
and around Little Thrum Cap. A fire
was built in a cleared space near the
shore and hot soup, coffee and sandwiches were enjoyed. The casualities
consisted of one cap lost at sea and
three pairs of broken glasses.

i
C. O. T. C: NOTES.

 

I wish to correct:an error which
appeared in the last issue. The theoretical examinations for ‘‘A’’ and “B”
certificates will be held.on March 7th
and 8th, not 5th and 6th as previously
stated. The practical examination,
which all must pass before they will be

General Supervisor of Maritime Hatch- | allowed to write the theoretical, will be

eries is in attendance.

held on Thursday, February 18th.

 

University Broadcasting

EDITORIAL

(1)

In a number of Canadian Universities the students are being
given, through the medium of radio broadcasting, an opportunity to
extend the scope of their extra, mural] instructional and recreational
features far beyond the physical bounds of their respective insti
tutions. These Universities are

tionship with the communities in which they function

being brought into proper relaTheir

debating circles, their Glee Clubs and their choral and philharmonic
societies are being enabled to apply their talents to the entertain
ment and education of a large number of Canadians.

At the same

time the members of such organizations are enjoying a pleasant
indulgence of their hobbies, and simultaneously cultivating a

richer citizenship.

For two years previous to the 1931-82 term, Dalhousie University, sponsored fairly regular programs from C. H. N.S. Addresses in popular scienific, historic and linguistic vein were contributed from time to time by the professors. Tine Choral Society

participated, and the executive

of Sodales promoted many in
teresting debated. This year the practice has not been continued,
partly from financia] reasons, partly because of the lack of interest

in the University. “The present
regrettable.

state of affairs in this regard is

We desire to enlist the interest of the Student Body

im the matter of University sponsored radio programs.

 

   
   

Small Entry

 

No. 138

For Sodales

 

Debating Teams

Malcolm Honour Award

 

 

MR. R. M. BROWN

who has been selected for the Mal; colm Honour Society for 1932.

 

 

Single Malcolm
Award Made

Nomination as a Malcolm Honour
Student, the highest award at the
disposal of the Students of the University, has been conferred this year upon
Robert MacGregor Brown, Senior student in Commerce. The award is
made annually to graduating students
who during their university careers.
have displayed unselfishness in service
to their fellow students and to student
organizations,

Mr. Brown has attended Dalhousie
for the past three years, entering a
course in Commerce as a Freshie-Soph
in 1929. During this time he has been
engaged in various phases of .student
activity and has held a number of
.mportant offices. He represented his
class on the Council of Students during
1930-31. When in that year the Council undertook the heavy task of reform
in administration Mr. Brown was
appointed to the committee for the
drafting of the new’ scheme. Well
equipped for the problems of the
Council’s financial administration. by
his previous experience in the Royal
Bank of Canada he was able to take a
commanding part in the work of reform. His contribution to the form
of student government thereby, attested by the conspicuous success of
the new system, during the first year
of its operation, constitutes a service
to the University of the highest order.
Mr, Brown won the Commercial Club
Scholarship for leadership in his class
in Commerce for both his Senior and
Junior years here. He has played on
the University hockey team, is a
member of the track team and has
played basketball for Commerce in the
Interfaculty League. He is an outstanding member of Phi Kappa Pi
Fraternity, and has served as Treasurer of that organization. This year
he is serving as Business Manager of
the Dalhousie Year Book and as an
earantte Member of the Round Table

ub,

 

Kappa Kappa
Sigma

The Kappa Kappa Sigma Sprority
is to be initiated on Friday, February
13th, as the. Alpha Eta Chapter of the
international fraternity, Alpha Gamma
Delta. This fraternity was founded
at Syracuse University in 1904 and
has over forty-five chapters in Canada
and the United States. Alpha Eta
will be the first Chapter ot a woman’s
fraternity to become international
east of Montreal.

A large reception is to be held at the
Nova Scotian Hotel Saturday, February 13tn, This will be tollowed in

 

Eight Candidates
Appear ait Trials

Eight contestants for places on the
two debating teams to represent Lahousie in the forthcoming Intercollegiate debates, spoke at the Munro
Room, on Friday evening, February
Sth. The subjects under discussion
were, ‘‘Resolved that the principle of
competition has retarded progress of
the world,’ and ‘‘Resolved that the
League of Nations as at present constituted is an effective instrument for
the maintenance of world peace.’’
Dalhousie will uphold the former
resolution in a debate to be held in
Hal.fax, on February 26th, with Mrg
J. Osmond Matte of the University ot
Ottawa and Mr. W. J. Garnett of
Ontario Agricultural College. The latter resolution will be supported by
Dalhousie in a debate against St.
Francis Xavier University in the
annual Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League Series.

Michael Greenberg, Ben Rogers,
Charlie Anderson, kichard Squires,
Robert Kanigsberg, Julius Rosenblum,
Raymond McCarthy and Claude Howse were the candidates for the teams.

Mr. Greenberg in opposing the
resolution re competition, maintained
that competition and progress were
inseparable, Without competition ciyilization would be in‘a state of stagnation, Man must have something to
goad him on; competition is ambition,
ambition is success, success is progress.
In the economic world free traae is
an example of what competition does,
and all staunch and able economists
support that doctrine. In medicine,
education and other phases of life, the
principle holds good, and it has not
retarded progress.

_ Mr. Rogers thought that competition does retard progress. In industrial and commercial Jife, it results in

   
   
  

tinemployment and suffering. While

planned production would mean work
for everybody. In spiritual life,
schisms have lessened the power of the
church, in intellectual life competition
is a negligible factor as few great novels
or musical productions are produced
for prize contests.

Mr. Anderson said that the resolution did not state that competition had
prevented all progress. in industries
advertising is carried on at a huge
expense. Many are advertising the
same articles. Competition may lead
to cutting of prices, but if there was no
competition they would probabiy be
cut much lower. It wouid be better
if a firm were producing only one fine,
cheap artilce, whereas, now they are
forced to produce a great variety ot
inferior articles. Competition has given some advance, but some other system would give greater progress.

Mr. Squires argued that seif interest
was the strongest motive in man’s behaviour. Eacn person strives to better
his Own and not anotner’s existence.
Darwin's theory of the survival of the
fittest has been vindicated. Man has
been fighting a winning battle against
animais and the other tuorces of nature.
The grocer who serves his customer
best gets the most business. - Another
may be made miserable by.competition
but many benefit and the loser is.stirred
to recover his loss. Seldom is ettort
made beyond that which is aosolutely
necessary, thus the principle of competition can alone lead to the greatest
progress in economic life, This is just
as true in social ite, since, if competi»
tion were aboushed, games and spurt
would disappear and man would’: live
to eat and sieep.

Mr. Rosenblum said that competition and destruction go hand in
hand, If it is not a stranger to happiness, it has at least many evils; as its
best it is cruel selfishness. The interests of one are not compatible with
the interests of the many. In social
life it has aggravated jealousy, selfishness, and kept alive the ald adage of
self preservation. Man has progressed
not by virtue of competition but in
spite of it. Unemployment is the
result,

Mr. McCarthy was of the opinion
that the whole history of progress of

mankind - was concerned with competition, Progress is successful competition. Russia has found that she

must not only permit but also encourage competition. _Musicians do
compete against other musicians to be

the evening by a formal banquet for|able to say that they excel some one

the members of the fraternity,

Among the visiting delegates will
be Margaret Dow, Margaret Hilchie
and Mrs. Brigden from Toronto and
Julia Riser from Alabama. Helen
Clarke will represent the undergraduate
chapter of the University of Toronto,
Helen Marie Cooper will represent
Michigan State College and Margaret
Cameron will represent the McGill
Chapter. They will arrive in the
city to-morrow night.

else. Too much is blamed on competition without an analysis of the causes

Mr. Howse said that opponents of
competition had based their arguments
on events of the last few years. In the
long run it has raised man above and
brute and is still raising him, in every
phase of life. Minds become sluggish
without competition. No economist
of note opposed it; scientific research
is the result of competition, Thus

(Continued on page 4)

 

 
 
   

   

5 ‘ ’ so
‘ .
h i 7 ' 4
i 7 Pia hm ty 27 ;
= ’ 7 I ;
. ' a fa F + ty ~
i f. iy, ‘ * SS
Vv? ( oe ] 7 «
i % 7 id . ‘
ive ‘= = . r ' 1
a ; nS =
—
ae 8 ~ —_ NEE
5 = = : a
i ~
i" ?
iF = : A
” E } . i
aie ae t : ? .
a ; ahha + - =
_. Pe é d . te J i ,
a a i j*s ‘ é :
i in f F i 1 a Ee ‘ '
= , j be aT ae | a ‘ b ‘ Se:
Mi Sa — , = y | = J
Z } ‘ oe _ a .
4- ‘ hel ny : ;
os | -_
a Me ‘ r ¢@ ' » i i
Le 1 i : > F
me ; zx (
ate 4 Fa " Y? = " E
‘ a aa iy - \ 7)
, . a7 4
7
1

ELIZABETH MARCH
T. W. CRAWFORD

News Editors:
MARGARET DORMAN

lee” EDWARD B. HIGGINS
ibe +3 - ELIZABETH MURRAY

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| COMMENT»

| “resolute adherence to policies for the

welfare of the nation has minimized
the adverse influence of external economic forces.” Lately the foreign
trade balance has become favourable,
and recent provisions for dealing with
unemployment are said to be proving
effective. This is all very reassuring,
though it is well to remember that the
Governor-General reads what others

ae

 

THE
PASSING BLOW

 

University. We understand that those
in charge are making an effort to bring
one of these lists before every single
student; nevertheless the task is so
difficult that some may be missed,
In order to give an opportunity of
signing for a Book to anyone who is not
personally canvassed, a sheet will be
kept at the Dal store where registration
may be made for any number of copies.

February 10th, 1932

Interest Shown In
Girls Debating

FROM OUR

——_ se,

a4 4 Lat a My L cbse gary ee Throne. CONTEMP ORA RIES . ues
Bb Rig eeerer er ee i 2 scog it ospect of a cit. : “i n Tuesday evening, Febru 2
<i é ‘Founded TBM. ri ie RR kag PeDee sp Atnerica Proposal for a C. N. R. Tax. , | : the girls’ debating rela were held a as
, - - The Year Book, . : t
. a a wits ny Bee os ee the eee ot Elizabeth Murpes, oe By (yh , ; 1e Speech from the rone. (ke : ray, Manager of the debating te: :
Bega aii > Ration: Managing Editors: Whe Speech, read last Thureday at | 2 7e Depression in Debating. Me presided at the Meeting. Ee :
‘THOMAS D, MacDONALD, B. A. THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295| the opening of Parliament by His|| Professional School Monoply. Morality in Manitoba. The subject for debate was “Resolved
pie toa L2890 WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995| Excellency the Earl of Bessborough, above that in the interests of world peace, the |
oe Associates: sounded, aeconding to reports, ‘‘a ngte , Satish Empire should sferce: (20° 0 |
ut , of optimism and courage.’ In the ee operate in protecting all members of R
pr H. B. CHANDLER S ik tec au Gat forth at the ‘‘period | The Year Book. iain sie sein the League of Nations against etteroal .
LILLIAN SADLER, B. A. of trial has shown the Canadian situa-| Application lists for Year Books are|] Intercollegiate Press Union. attack.” This year Dalhousie debates ;
DANIEL SPRY tion to be fundamentally sound,” while} at present being circulated in_ the Mt. Allison University at Sackville.
different classes and faculties of the The debate will probably take place %,

 

about the first of March.

The judges were Dr. MacKay, Dr.
Stewart and Prof. C. L. Bennett.
Miss Marie Ferguson class '32, was
chosen as leader, the other two members being, Miss Betty March, Class
ig and Miss Dorothy Gray of Class

A great deal of interest was shown
this year and there were nine contes
Morality im Manitoba.
When the University of Manitoba
Dramatic Society decided to produce
Sudermann’s ‘‘The Joy of Living,”
this winter, the faculty debated for
the space of more than two months on
its morality or immorality, and while
rehearsals were being held up the pro
" Business Manager: RUTH CRANDALL Asst. Business Manager: | have written.
DONALD MAHON CHARLES CLARKE, B. A The Speech makes mention of nego-| We have been requested to point out ducer resigned, and two theolog mem-} tants—Marie Ferguson, Betty March,

B1826 B2436 tiations for the St. Lawrence Waterway|that papers being circulated for signa- bers of the cast because of the un- Dorothy Gray, Dorothy Vernon, Lorna

ture in réspect to the Year Book are| favourable publicity. The final de- McLeod, Gladys Jost, Kay Mor rill,

Proof Editor:
AARON ZIVE, B. Se.

 

 

_ PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB & SON,

 

 

IN MEMORY OF JIMMY MALCOLM.

Announcement was made last week of the awarding. to Mr.
Robert McG. Brown of the Malcolm Honour Key, the highest
non-academic recognition which a Dalhousie student can receive.
-It is conferred annually upon some member or members of the

raduating class, who in the opinion of a special selection committee,
lave shown an unselfish spirit of service in the interests of our
University. That the choice this year has been a particularly
felicitous one, is the unanimous agreement of all those acquainted
Mr. Brown during his
undergraduate career has devoted a great deal of his time and
Perhaps the most noteworthy contribution he has made, was as one of the promoters of an entirely
This excellent

innovation which is at present meeting with such success is due

with the qualifications of the recipient.
energy to campus activities.
revised system for handling the student finances.

in no small measure to his untiring efforts.

The tragically heroic life-story of Jimmy Malcolm, to perpetuate whose memory the Honour Award was established, is
Yet such is its essential nature, that repetition
Over quarter of a century
7 ago he graduated from Dalhousie, a youth who possessed almost
a every characteristic which goes to make up a fine, strong, attractive
7

familiar to all.
serves only to render it the more noble.

personality. As an undergraduate, he had been not only a staunch
friend to all his fellows, but a leader in everything that served to
Athlete, scholar, social] favourite,
a. —he was these in abundance; and he was a irue gentleman, whose
i word and deed were beyond reproach. As a true gentleman he
laid down his life shortly after graduation, in a valiant attempt to
rescue row! “Greater love hath no man than
ae par _Let us hope that Jimmy \Malcolm’s name and ex
f benefit his Alma Mater as well.
t

    

drowning comrade.
; !

scue

  

a

     

FINANCING PHAROS.
' j directorship of Mr. F. H. Wigmore.
}

yr _ live up to the enviable reputation of its predecessors.

 

they ungracefully ignored their obligation.

lt has often been suggested as a palliative measure against this

sort of thing, that a small specified sum should be collected from
every person at the Fall registration, and upon leaving college,
all the graduates would receive a copy of the Year Book which
they had purchased on the installment plan. Such a method would
certainly obviate to a very large extent the financial uncertainty
It would
of course, require several years to introduce the scheme; but once

J inaugurated, it could be continued indefinitely without any addiAt all events, some steps should really be taken to
lighten the burden of responsibility which falls upon the shoulders
of each successive business manager who wrestles with the financing

that invariably accompanies the publication of Pharos.

tional labour.

— ete

of Pharos.

widespread interest in Chinese character and culture.

ee
‘a

7-9-il BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. S.

Il always continue to be an inspiring ideal for Dalhousians.

BL Fe The sixth annual publication of ‘‘Pharos,’” the Dalhousie
__. Year Book is now in the process of composition under the able
The extremely high standard

set by editors of former years is a difficult one for those in charge

to maintain without extended effort; but judging from the very
; _ favourable advance reports, the forthcoming number will fully
In one respect however, every edition has laboured under a heavy handicap.
We refer to the disappointing paucity of actual copies sold to the
students, and the subsequent financial embarassment which the
book has suffered. This shortcoming is in no way due to those
burdened with the business administration; it has been caused
rather by the general unwillingness of many undergraduates to
give the publication their utmost support by subscribing to it.
In quite a number of cases, students have pledged themselves in
writing to do so, yet when the time came to redeem that pledge,

COMPREHENDING THE CHINESE CHARACTER.

_ The recent stirring events that have been taking place in the
Orient, seem to be reviving, among numerous other things, a rather
We, of the

Occident often possess very erroneous conceptions about our
brethren in the great Pacific Empire. We hear so much about the

“Yellow Peril,’’ that we tend to think of them as rather dul], un
educated heathen who eke out a painful existence in the fetid

atmosphere of poverty-stricken, over-populated cities; ignorant of
the finer things of life; divorced from all the material comforts we
enjoy; duped by a superstitious religion of ancestor-worship; and
' only to be redeemed from the dark morass into which they have

and on the broader question of transportation forecasts legislative action
on the report of the Transportation
Royal Commission. The New Zealand
treaty will be brought down for consideration. Some advance work may
be accomplished in contemplation of
the Ottawa Economic Conference scheduled for July. There are several
League conventions ready for ratification, while amendments to the Shipping
Act, the Fisheries Act, and bills relating
to insurance and to patents and trade
marks will be introduced. Consideration of the public accounts promises to

considered as forming binding contracts with those who place their
namesonthem. The number of names
affixed will determine the number of
books printed, and no allowance wil
be made for extras. Anyone who
desires to purchase a Year Book ought,
therefore, to sign for one at the earliest
opportunity; for there will be no books
available to those who wait until after
pee ason to signify their intention to

uy,

A word of caution is here in order
to those who sign. The fact that past

cision was that the play was not immoral, but by this time there were
two more players missing for reasons
various, and the production of the
play was given up. A great deal of
public discussion was aroused, and in
the meantime copies of the play are
understood to be selling out rapidly.

Lilian Fraser and Jean McLellan,
The arguments in brief of the different speakers were as follows:

Miss Gladys Jost, the first speaker
said that Great Britain has many
colonies extending over such a wide
area and which need her protection,
so why should she burden herself with
extra worries. Countries are drawn
into conflict through trade. Why
make an excuse for entering war when
there are so many factors which tend
to throw all nations into world conflict.

a

Debate.

The Oregon System of debating has
been adopted by students of the
University of North Carolina with
great success according to the McGill

year books have been unsuccessful has
been due in no little part to the conduct of some students who, after

fill a large portion of the session.

Prospect of a Deficit.

The Hon. E. N. Rhodes, newly
appointed Minister of Finance, assumes
that high office at a time when its conduct promises to be an unusually heavy
task. Hard times are hard for public
as well as private enterprise while the
Dominion Government now assumes a
heavy burden in the attempt to relieve
distress and unemployment.

During the last year new loans have
increased the funded debt of the
Dominion by $195,000,000. At the
present time the Government accounts
are in debt to the Banks by something
over $18,000,000. $15,000,000 has
been loaned to bolster up the financial
positions of certain needy provinces
and $7,000,000 has been advanced to
the Federal Farm Loan Board.

For the nine months period ending
Dec. 31, 1981, Revenue was $255,000,
000, a decrease of $35,000,000 as compared with 1930., Expenditure ran to
$308 ,000,000 a slight see oe that

year. e deficit for nine : ‘
ees en aie at $54,000,000. The reasons for this state of affairs
The Financial Post peoiects this to |lie obscured in the ever changing ebb

i h land flow of interests that make up
ofthe scl year. Seg college life, Among the possible causes

To this figure must be added the|that suggest themselves is the progresoperating deficit of the National Rail-!Sive multiplicity of recreational ei
ways, expected to. be about $100,000, | tions at Dalhousie. Yet this factor has
000. | During the three remaining mon- | Subtracted nothing from the popularity
ths the great bulk of the unemploy-|0f other organizations—for example,
ment relief moneys is scheduled for Glee Club. That the cause of the
expenditure, an item of the unemploy- decline in interest in Sodales does not
ment relief moneys is scheduled for|lie in the executive is apparent from a
expenditure, an item which will further |"eview of the wholehearted endeavour
swell the drain on the national trea- . the present and of past administrasury. The total forecastsa tremendous | 10S. i
atti, falling very little short of $200,| Before attempting to lay finger upon

; fi ar | an actualreason for present conditions,
Sette Mach oi i082. He Brean eee it may be well to deal with one con
sideration that insists on intruding
Proposal for a C. N. R. Tax.

itself on an enquiry of the present state
_ |of debating. During the last four

Mr. John T. Hackett, Conservative
member for Stanstead, in a recent

years (if we may repeat) the number
speech in Montreal renewed his attack

of candidates for intercollegiate teams

5 at has steadily decreased. During the
on the state ownership of the National
Railways. During the last session

first of these years a trip to Newfoundland was an item on the Sodales agenda.

Mr. Hackett created something of a

sensation by his attack on the Rail
Next year, a trip to Fredericton was
‘ y 2 available to three winning candidates.
ways in pe and by his more] Last year all debates were home despecific charges against the present | bates; this year the same is true.
management and system of manage- Again, three years ago the girls’
ment. Mr. Bennett later declared that | team debated in Halifax; last year the
Mr. Hackett was not speaking for the] girls’ team debated at St. Francis
Government, but because his repudia-| Xavier: this year they will go to
tion of his follower was not nearly so| Mount Allison. For the last three
emphatic as was that of Mr. Meighen| years the ratio of the numbers of girl
in a similar situation some years ago | ¢
the incident was seized upon, as an

candidates has been something like
indication that some alteration in the

3:4:9, little out of proportion to the
distances of the trips. Apparently
status of the C. N, R. was not altogether unlikely.

then, one solution for debating ennui
There has been some altercation

is at least one outside debate for men’s
R ; and co-eds’ teams each year.

between President Sir Henry Thornton But, seriously, one real cause, and,
and opponents of the government rail- perhaps the most important cause of
ways as to the exact extent of deficits] lack of interest in Sodales is:
in the past. Sit Henry maintains that
the total deficit between 1928 and 1930
amounts to $89,000,000 while Mr.
Hackett and others bid for something
like $360,000,000. The dispute seems
to centre on the point of proper definition of a deficit, but it appears at
any rate that the charge upon the
Dominion’s finances was that of the
larger figure.

Mr. Hackett’s contention appears to

their bargain when the book came out,
It is desireable that as many subscribe
as possible; for if a sufficient number
do, then the price of the book will
be considerably reduced. It is also
to be desired, however, that no one,
sign without a bona fide intention of
buying, for each book left on the hands
of the executive contributes towards a
deficit. Watch the notice boards for
further Year Book items.

The Depression in Debating. *

Debating at Dalhousie has fa,len
upon evil days. No longer does the
fervid declamation of aspirant orators
pack the Munro Room; no longer do
the aspirant orators themselves show
the same eagerness for forensic encounter; or perhaps the race of aspirant
orators is. dying out. Whatever the
reason, the fact remains that within
the last four years interest in debating
has steadily declined at Dalhouse.

    
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
  
 

Professional School Monopoly.

Let us hasten to explain that we use
monopoly here in no sense stigmatic,
but as discriptive of a state of affairs
not inherently undesirable. The state
of affairs referred to is that in which
the director or directors of the most
important organizations of extra-mural
student activity are all professional
men.

romising to buy, have failed to fulfil}
P : y ‘are here outlined. There are no judges.

‘A vote on the question is taken and

Daily. The attendance at debates
has increased from twenty-five to
over four hundred since the operation
of the new scheme whose main features

the audience decides which side has
won. At the end of their speeches the

speakers are cross-examined for five

minutes by the following speaker on
the opposing team. Sodales might
try out this system to test its worth.
The lack of interest in debating this
year and every year (apart from intercollegiate debates) is apparently due
to the fact that audiences do not get
any enjoyment from the conventional
_method. Cross-examination should
‘bring out the best or worst in a de|bater, and at least would help keep
the audience awake, if not actually
amused,

Queens Honors B. A.

A five year Honors course in Arts
at Queen’s University has been prepared by the authorities and is likely
to take effect next term. The requirements for a B. A. with Honours
will be the equivalent of twenty-three
courses (each of three hours per week).
The Major comprises. nine lecture
courses seven of which must be in one
subject, and three courses of directed
reading. The work for a minor is
five lecture courses, Each candidate
must also take six general subjects,
including two in English, one in Philosophy, Mathematics, a Science, and
two foreign languages, one of which
must be Latin unless the Major subject
is Mathematics or a Science. Examinations are held every spring at the
close of the lecture-course; and comprehensive examinations are given at
the end of the whole course. It is
possible for a student with Honour
Matriculation to cover the course in
three years and for a Pass Matriculant
in four years provided part of the
summer vacation is. spent in reading,
revision, and research. This provision
is of importance to the industrious
student who is ordinarily obliged to
mark time in the vacation for a matter
of five months,

Intercollegiate Press Union.

The Canadian Intercollegiate Press
Union has been recently established
and news exchange between member
papers will shortly be under way.
The McGill Daily, the Varsity, the
University of Western Ontario Gazette,
and the Queen’s Journal are charter
members. Within the last two weeks
W. F. Payton, editor of the Varsity
and president of the Union has toured
the western colleges and secured the
support necessary there, incidentally
getting himself involved in several
academic disputes by his reports to
the Varsity and elsewhere of the conditions obtaining in the western colleges. There remains still the support
of the Maritime papers, which will not
probably be at all difficult to secure.
The new Union will facilitate exchange
news and unite the Canadian universities in a bond of interest that has been
lacking before. Interesting and im
portant news will be available from] f

coast to coast for the affiliated universities.

a a a

Miss Dorothy Vernon went on to
say that if Great Britain would agree to
protect other nations she would not
be in agreement with terms of Article
Sixteen of World Covenant and that
such an agreement would be contrary
to real purpose of the founders of the
League.

Miss Kay Morrill, the third speaker,
argued that such an agreement would
harm the British Empire and the
world in general. Due to the depression Great Britain could not affordto
increase her army and navy. She has
enough to do at home without being
brought into other troubles. Any
country might be able to bring her into
war,

Miss Lilian Fraser, the next speaker, said that the League as it stands
could not bring world peace unless it
formed a world league. The plan suggests a temporary protection, the desired effect will not be obtained unless
the League of Nations includes United
States and Russia. jf British Empire
agrees to protect nations, she is placing
herself in a thankless job and there is
no need to put herself at the disposal
of other nations.

Miss Betty March said the only way :

to world peace was through disarmament. Great Britain is unable to give
financial and economic aid therefore
she must give military aid and so must
increase herarmaments. Should Great
Britain promise to protect other nations
it would lead to external or internal
warfare. She must increase her armaments, other nations would do the
ue hence Britain is defeating her own
ends.

Miss Lorna McLeod contested that
only way to world peace is through a
world community. The British Empire as a police patrol would not be
acceptable to this world community,
Therefore as. world community is the
only solution. Great Britain's promise
would not have the desired effect.

Miss Dorothy Gray, the next
speaker, went on to say that war is not
going to end war. The greater wrong
of war should not be used to right it.
The British Empire is a great nation
and should not set an example of
militarism. The members of the world
war should have some influence.

Miss Jean McLellan said that
world peace cannot exist unless there is
disarmament, There is four and a half
billion dollars spent annually on armaments, which could be better spent.
Such extensive armaments lead to war
This also causes higher taxation. Then
again how does Great Britain know
that other nations will back her if she
agrees to this protection?

Miss Marie Ferguson, the last
speaker, said, that the dominions are
autonomies and it would be very difficult for every part of the empire to
agree to such a proposal as that of
protecting other nations and it would
probably lead to trouble within the
empire,

The debate with, Mt. Allison promises to be very interesting and we hope
Or gratifying results as Dalhousie

should have a very strong team this
year.

be that if the taxpayer realised the
extent of the annual drain to keep the
Railways going he would not put up
with it for a moment. One way to
bring this fact home to him is to impose a direct tax, call it a C, N. R.
Tax, and meet the deficit out of the
fund thus created. Such a taxation

 

The president of Glee Club is
a Med; the D. A. A. C. president is a
Med; the president and secretary of
Sodales are Lawyers; the editors of the
Gazette comprise two Lawyers and
an M. A. candidate; not to mention
the managers of interfaculty sport,
basketball, football, and hockey, who
are two Lawyers and two Meds re
 

 
 

 
       

    
   

a

a

i =e

Symphony Orchestra

Thursday Feb. 11, 8 p. m.

   

  

fallen, by the benign power of Christianity and the enlightening
influences of the mechanical European-American civilization.
Some such picture as this invariably flashes into the mind of the
typical westerner, whenever he thinks of China. a

_ And yet, here is what a broad-minded, cultured, Englishman, a man must be more than wealthy to win public esteem an
Sir Robert Hart, has said about the Chinese: respect ; in short, they are dractical: teachable and aie
fully gifted with common sense; and besides being excellent
artisans and reliable workmen, they practice a good faith
in their dealings with their fellow men that would put
most Western countries to shame.”

scheme might very well work for the spectively. Without going into the

    

(Continued on page 3.) (Continued from page 3)

 
 
      
      

MUNRO ROOM, FORREST BUILDING

WE NEED EVERY PLAYER IN THE UNIVERSITY |
(See Article)

   

“They are well-behaved, law-abiding, intelligent, economiye A cal, and industrious; they can learn anything and do any‘ee thing; they are punctiliously polite, they worship talent,
Bans and they believe in right so firmly that they scorn to think it
¢ _ - requires to be suppor.ed or enforced by might; they delight in
eis’, literature; they possess and practice an admirable system
ma e' of ethics, and they are charitable and fond of good works;

: they never forget a favour and they make rich return for

_ any kindness; though they know money will buy service,

¥

        
     
     

This is the candid: opinion: of one who spent most of his life
among the Chinese, and whose eyes were not blinded by prejudice.
.|Perhaps we have all been under an egregious illusion with: re
gard to the mystic East. It certainly seems as though such has
been the case.

   
    
 

  
 
  
  

 
 
  
   

Mr. Dean. will conduct

   

        
   
     
       
    
   

if
i é,
a
oe
Yea
Ba

it a *

yt

"ae

es }
7

a
V9
‘,

an
. a
i i
ot Mo
1%as

 

‘

a
a
o

a

a ae

2
’

ri _ The Dalhousie delegates have return_ ed from the Student Volunteer Movement Conference filled with new inforpS mendously interesting, are not easy to

_ share without the spirit of the Convention to carry them over.

ground of the delegates, .All were
Re tyrant graduates or undergraduates of
-—s« some ~university; and this alone gave.

' society; and, as Mr. Yusuf Ali has since’

‘sation; in fact, as members of one

_ dependence of the nations.

. bearer = - meee ; ete, ; Fa
es . 5 CE Ee oe Te ae ’ ; a5 ee 7 *,
i as mn p a are bap ft dee Spl Ae) S - » eye -* : : bi , aes ;
Fae ® 3. - : , : ;
Sfudent Con
iB " yy 4 ; » 4 . =

Report of the 11th Annual Assembly at Buffalo _

mation and ideas which, though tre
on to car Perhaps this
spirit or atmosphere of the Convention
was the most remarkable feature of it.
There was an unusual feeling of unity
and friendship. This may have been:
due partly to the unity in the back
everyone the feeling of belonging to one.

SS

declared, the ‘‘university atmosphere’’)
isa very pleasant one. Then the mass
meetings gave everyone a common interest and a common topic of conver
Convention, we felt so like one big
family that it seemed that for a short:
time at least the ideal of the brotherhood of man had been realized. ss;

The unity among the members of the,
Convention was characteristic of the:
world outlook of all of the bby: speak-_
ers. They all emphasize )
i ‘No man!
or nation can live unto himself alone.’’
Complete internationalism is the goal
towards which the world must work;
and the nations must be brought to a
state of equality in civilization and
broadness of outlook to make free,
cooperation practicable. One of the
greatest problems of the world today is; :
as Dr. Jabavu pointed out, how nations with various temperaments and
in various states of civilization are to
live and work harmoniously together
as modern mechanical invention is
compelling them to do. The seeming)
hopelessness of this and other problems’
was relieved only by the reassuring
statements of Dr. Judd and others who:
had discovered from experience that
“human nature is fundamentally the
same, the world over.”’

Most of the inspiration of the Convention was undoubtedly due to the
force of the personalities of the remarkable group of leaders. They were all
men whose talent had been exercised,
and whose convictions had been made

enuine by wide and varied experience.
Bre of the most remarkable was Dr.
T. Z. Koo an outstanding leader in
Chinese student affairs, He had an
amazingly scientific and analytical
mind which could see to the fundamentals what most could only indicate
by example. He was an ideal example

 

of Chinese culture;,and he particularly
charmed the delegates at the Canadian
luncheon by playing beautiful Chinese
melodies on his reed flute.

 
  
  
  
  
     
   
     
  
   
  
    
   
 

vention was undoubtedly Dr. Jabavu
from Africa.
sympathy and a. deligious sense of
humor which, as hé said, is one of the
African’s chief talents.

impression-on everyone was Dr. Judd,
a young medical missionary in one of}
the wildest parts of China.
of his life is quite as-exciting as any
thriller.
six times, he had been tied up to be,
shot by bandits, and rescued only by;
the interference-of.a native whom he,
had helped. He, has
manner of bandit. raids, and cuted
thousands in a section of country where.
there was no other medical service.
His career showed that the opportunity
for .ramance, adventure’ and pioneer,
service is not gone with modern times.

the inter-.}.

eastern extreme.
time Colleges and. universities were
represented. Acadia, Mount. Allison,
| Prince of Wales and U. N. B. all sent
delegates.
the two Smiths, and Dalhousie by

ee
‘ Tees Los

ne ares Ps. =


 

The most lovable person at the Con

He had a _ wonderful!

ve 5

The speaker who made the greatest

The story

e has had malaria forty
survived all

‘The Canadian delegation was dis-;

tinguished by its little emblem, the’

ine and white ribbon (for snow).
here were representatives from, most.
of the Canadian Universities ‘‘all the

way from British Columbia to Dal
We were always cited as the:
Most of the Mari
housie.”’

Kings was represented by

Mollie Freeze, Mildred Moors, and
Eirene Walker. Dalhousians derived
particular distinction for the distance
which they had come. Halifax does

seem to enjoy a reputation for remote
ness, particularly among the Americans.. The Maritime people were particularly delighted at their opportunity

to visit Montreal and Toronto and to|?

see Niagara Falls.

The Convention was undoubtedly a
glorious ‘‘adventure in friendship’’;
and its value as a stimulus to international sympathy and understanding
is unquestionable. It was a gathering
of a group of people from the student
world, many of whom will probably
rise to influential positions, all with an
interest in world affairs, and a belief
in the practical value of Christian
principles. as a basis for construction,
there to gain inspiration and impetus
from contact with students with similar
interests and from the testimony of
the leaders who could speak with a
conviction based on. their own wide
experience.

 

_ Heaven

" : A * ° ‘ r I ’ a ae i > £ ? 1
a as. ‘The rolling hills that march into the sky
-. And fleecy clouds that pass in pageants

a ‘Ad birds and pretty things that fly

Make heaven.
And dark blue waters, rutfled by the

’ breeze,

And new clothed birches and the winter
trees,

And little snuggling homes—it’s these

Make heaven.

Then too the Sun in splendour up above
It gives its strength to beast and plant

and dove |
And, fading, paints the sky in shades of

_ Jove
From heaven.

And thus it is that always, everywhere,
As sanctuary from a world of care,
Awaiting our perception, is a share

Of heaven.

For God is here;—in trees, in birds, in
flowers, i
In sun and stars, in sea and wind and

showers, 4
In US; and all his works are kins of ours

FE heaven.
ee a REVERIE.

 

Comment

(Continued from page 2)
elimination of several governmental

services by the force of popular demand.

Asa taxation proposal Mr. Hackett’s

 stiggestion was probably advanced

It does

merely by way of illustration. _
3 raise the

serve very effectively to

_ question whether the services and rates

accorded some sections of the country

” by the C. N. R. are worth the candle.

——.

- Professor Yeo has solved the riddle
: He is an ardent

of the depression.

eC advocate of the abolition of all Latin

mes
ba!
aes a

Ss ,

ee

a
ys A
‘

h

o

Pte

ror >
. '
Fan

E F

nai

»

aoe

ie

A a

ee

| BASKETBALL
‘ iy. M. C.As Sat., Feb. 13 :

dy ’s vs. ¥. M. C. A,
5 aby ma. King’s vs. ¥.

it 9 p. ‘=n, ¥. mae. A. vs. Pause

bs ae. General Admission 25c

Translations, (Colloq. ‘‘tracks’’). and
makes an earnest plea for rationality in

» » their use, a lowering of cost price and
>

_ more and better beer.

Professor
part in the depression. We agree with
you, Sir.
"cents so we can all have one.

 

-_

i

 

iate
. 8 p. m. N.S. Tech. vs. Wanderers

a ooo,

i

i
i}
i

 

Yeo states that the high
¢ost of cribs has played an important

Cut the cost down to 75

Passing Blow - 
(Continued from page 2.)

‘pro’s and con's of this divorcing of the

extra-curriculum activity direction
rrom Studley we content ourselves
with the léss courageous but more
discreet action of throwing out this
qi.estion: Would the election of more
undergraduates to these important
offices stimulate more interest in the
different organizations at Dalhousie?
Until this question has been answered
it is unnecessary to inquire about the
desirability of the probably more
experienced management of professional students. Perhaps it wil! be
unnecessary to enquire when it has
been answered. In closing, do the
facts behind this discussion bear any
relation to the lack of interest at present
manifest toward debating.
ee ee

A number of Pine Hillers have been
on the sick list during the past week.
Don Archibald had that part of the
throat apparatus called the tonsils
removed; Harry Clarke is under observation in the Victoria General and
Allan McIntosh is recovering from a
week's incapacitation.

, THOUSAND

 

DONS. .
pAR |

Ct
ioe REN,

>

Lthink Id dance
better with good
music. Wed better

nope

l,

 

° AssoTT
WALKER, INC.

 

PHINNEY’S

Let the World’s Greatest
Dance Orchestra play
for you through
The

MARCONIA
INTERNATIONAL
Short-Long Wave

RECEIVER

See them to-day at

  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
  

rr ee

| U. K. C. Notes

 
 

« 
15, FU)

tee

The last dance of the Pre-Lenten
season was staged at King’s last Thursday evening in the Haliburton rooms,
and proved a decided success, upwards
of 100 couples enjoying the music
provided by Selden Crimp’s Orchestra.
Chaperones for the occasion were Dr.
and Mrs. Vroom, Professor and Mrs.
Maxwell, and Professor and Mrs.
Bennett. The committee in charge of
the dance was composed of the following: Staff Tanton, Chairman, Howard
Prat, Arthur Wilson, Edgar House, and
Bill Hart.

—

~The regular fortnightly meeting of
the Haliburton Club was held last
Saturday evening with Professor C. L.
Bennett presiding. Professor D.
Harvey, Provincial Archivist, was the
special speaker for the occasion, giving
an illuminating talk on his work.
Songs and refreshments concluded the
evening’s entertainment.

The first ‘‘buckshee”’ basketball of
the season was staged in the King’s
gym Saturday afternoon, with the
Seniors meet ng the Juniors and the
Freshmen battling the Sophomores.
The Juniors defeated the Seniors by
a score of 30 to 20 in a hard fought
contets, while the Freshmen won thei.
game by a 16 to 6 score,

St. Mary’s won the Halifax Intercollegiate championship by defeating
Nova Scota Tech while Dal was
winning over King’s in the final game
of the city league staged last Thursday
night at the Forum. Both games
furnished perhaps the best hockey of
the season, and the scores, 4 to 1 in
pes cases, were no indication of the

ay. , 7
Dal and King’s met in the first game
of the evening, the Tigers holding the
King’s men scoreless until the last
minute of play, at the same_ time
chalking up four markers, Oyler,
Taylor and Bent scoring... Dal registered the first score of the game half
way through the first frame, when
Prat in the King’s goal miscalculated
a slowly travelling puck from Oylers’
stick, and the rubber slid into the goal,
The Tigers added another in the
second period, Taylor scoring with a
fast shot from close in. In the third
Dal took a four-goal lead, Ryan scoring with a shot from behind the King’s
net which caromed the rubber off
Prat’s pads; and Taylor sent in another
from a mix-up. King’s scored their
lone counter from a scramble in front
of the Dal net, Scott Zinck sweeping
the puck in with half a minute to go
The line-ups: v3

King’s—Goal, H. Prat; defence,
Duchemin, W. Zinck; forwards, Smith,
Cole, Gosse, C. Prat, Owen, Fry S.
Zinck,

Dalhousie—Goal, Purtill; defence,
Bent, Connor, McDonald; forwards,
Oyler, Taylor, Ryan, Coleman, Robb,
Grant.

‘*Timmie’’ Hunter refereed.

ge

Phi Rho Sigma held an informal
dance at their House Feb. 1. About
25 couples danced to Jim Sadler and
his Boys until nearly 2 a. m. Light
refreshments were served earlier in the
evening.

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

21 Spring Garden Road

 

 

—

ec Y

 

Ota Seay ana

appeared

good!

The recent ban on
forth some opposition, but the boys
Before the Millionaires’
a well known figure on the campus
‘phoned the Scotian and asked that a
room be reserved for a friend of his,
Mr. Peters from Baddeck.
arrived at the hotel, arrayed in raccoon coat and glasses but received the
All reservations were
And Mr. Peters gct his training
in Glee Club too!

did their best.

cold shoulder.
filled.

ed, ‘‘Hah!”

he fled.

nominal cost.
names or anyone else’s.
whose name it is?
Everybody out for this event.
the Studley
for notices of the Inaugural Splash.

x

The Observer

Freddy MacLellan couldn’t see the
point of the portrait of himself which
in a recent issue of the
Gazette and his friends had to explain.
“It’s all very simple,” said Johnny
Budd, ‘‘you go by opposites.
this sentence, ‘He is tall and red-haired,
with an honest face.’
course, that they think you're short
and dark, with a dishonest face.”’

Fashion Note.

Mr. DuBilier, of the braces, once
niore rings the bell.
snowy days in plus-fours, windbreaker,
and a smart red and blue toque, with
pompom. Andy Brue also favors this
style and is the proud possessor of a
navy blue cap, which appears to great
advantage on the Brue hair.

 

Lou Christie wishes to announce that
he has taken the position of instructor
in Necking VI.
somewhat large there is room for a
few more.

While

Reasonable rates.

 

 

Another Pictou County boy makes
Jack Miller, is now the son of
the mayor of the thriving city of New
Glasgow.

 

‘‘rooms”

A dark, thick-set man, with glasses,
wearing a blue overcoat and gray hat
was coming from the direction of the
V. G. last Tuesday when he met a
young lady; the young lady stopped,
pointed her finger at him, and exclaimWith an embarrassed but
reproving stare at the strange woman,
Crandall is still
wishing she had merely said something
chummy like ‘Well, if it isn’t good old
Harvey Sutherland!”

And Ruth

Polar Pie Atwood is taking names of
prospective members of the new Studwill be
opened when the Varsity Gym cpens
at the end of the month.
announced that he would be able to
supply the coffee and doughnuts at a
Come, gang, send in your
Who cares
What’s in a name?

Join
Watch

Dunking Club, which

Dunking Club.

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS

Small Musical Instruments

and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

 

No Mistake

You will make no mistake
in asking friends to dine,
lunch or have tea with you
at ‘*The Green’’ where
every effort is made to give
satisfactory service

The Green Lantern

 

 

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

 

EXCLUSIVE AGENT

“SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES”

 

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE

 

IN HALIFAX

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

437 BARRINGTON STREET.
—Iit’s the cut of your clothes that counts—

ee COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Write °r call for Calendar or advice.

   

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

Take

That means, of

He appearson

| word, quel traitre!”

the class is

drew

Mr. Peters

Polar Pie

 

  

* Phila?

° f °
Pine Hill Notes

_Pine Hillers last week witnessed a
display of the pugilistic abilities of a
number of popular residents. The
whole affair was quite amicable and
the boxing gloves were hung up at its
conclusion with no casualities reported.
His Holiness the Pope issued a standing
challenge which is still open, not so
much through any fear, we imagine,
as an unwillingness to desecrate the
high office of that dignitary,

ee .

Book Review

“Only Yesterday’’, an informal

history of the ninteen-twenties—

by Frederick Lewis Allen. Harper &
Brothers.

What Christopher Morley calls ‘‘The
Dishevelled Decade’? has found a
capable and intelJigent historian in
this disillusioned New Englander of
the Henry Adams breed, a former
teacher at Harvard, now an associate
editor of Harpers Monthy. The book
has the merit of keeping one’s interest
from beginning to end, wnich is the
best recommendation of the humourous
and ironic style of treatment of things
that must now seem deserving of such
treatment, and there are many of them
in the period—trom Mah Jong and
Coue to the Dayton trial and flagpolesitters. One may be surprised and
not a little humbled to be reminded of
the inanities which were thought so
apropos a few years back. It is not
sensational, but based on solid fact
drawn from many sources. The revolution in manners and morals of the
Younger Generation is not overdrawn
though the influence of Freud is perhaps too much stressed. His sympathetic picture of Wilson and his tragic
obscurity amidst the crass and sordid
politics of the Harding and Coolidge
era makes a revealing contrast with

This weeks notes are written with
genuine apprehension. Current  rumors of the re-actions of an outraged
Hiller makes it quite apparent that
not everybody craves the publicity
afforded in the Gazette columns,
Even our punster gave us a dirty look
the other day and hissed: ‘‘Pon my

 

Japan’s westernization has, it seems,
extended, even to emulation, after a
fashion, of America’s tabloid press
methods. Pine Hill has lately received a number of unsubscribed for
pamphlets depicting in atrocious English, with some revolting pictures
thrown in, the barbarity of the Chinese refugee soldier. In one of
these—An Appeal from the Japanese
People—is reproduced the picture of a
corpse with enough of his ‘‘innards’’
disclosed to please the most exacting
anatomist. These pamphlets are, par-| the religion of Big Business of the midadoxically enough, at once a tribute to! twenties and its gostel according to
our Western propagandist methods! Bruce Barton. The crash of the stock
and an insult to our intelligence. couiee and the causes and conditions
: “1 : leading up to it are sketched vivi

Shirreff Hall would do well to agitate | and wichouet mercy. The role at
for a head tax on all women imported
for the Pine Hill ‘‘At Home.” It’s a
bad thing when Allison Fraser has to
send to Pictou County, without mentioning our Scribe.

 

stirring saga of life which is an attempt
to trace beneath the surface the movement of those currents in the stream of
history which affect and are affected
by men and things.

You feel you’re on top of
the world when you savour
Turrets’ exceptional flavour.
They keep the day’s
enjoyment at a peak.

CIGARETTES

 

Leather Goods

Portfolios, Trunks
Bags and Luggage of
all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

 

 

 

 

BIRK

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so

desired.

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

 

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S,

on hh

CHOCOLATES

 

 
 
   

rs
f
i

    

 

 
   
       
   

ech

‘Dalhousie and_ St.
Mary’s are tied for
the leadership of the
Maritime intercollegiate playdown series, as
a result of gamed played at the Forum Monday evening, the Tigers gaining a close
win over Tech 1 to nil
and St.. Mary's getting

 

Oyler

dict over the King’s men by a 2-0 score.
Both games were the fastest played
among the college teams to date, and
provided the few fans who braved the
elements with the best of hockey.

The Dal-Tech game was the second
of the evening, and though the Tech
outfit had only seven men, they made
the Tigers work for their win, and as
it was the lone goal, scored by Taylor
in the second period, was disputed by
Tech, and the game may possibly be
protested. Dal were without the services of their regular goai, Ken Purtill,
but his substitute, ‘Ike’’ Smith, turned
in a good performance, and ntver
missed any cf his chances.

The St. Mary’s-King’s game was

productive of fast hockey, the game
oing scoreless for two periods and
half of the third before the Saints
managed to register. Play was even
throughout, and if anything the Saints
oalie was kept busier than was Prat
in the King’s net. ;

Al Clancy refereed satisfactorily.

 

Interfaculty
Bowling

——

Matches played last Monday, Febru 1, resulted as follows:
Section A: Dents, 927, Freshmen 902.
Dents 5 points.

Section C.: Medicne 1008, Theologues
960. Medicine 4 points, Theologues 1.
Matches played last Wednesday:

In Section B, the Profs lost 4 points
‘to Commerce by a score of 1011 to 983.

In Section C, Theologues defeated
Engineers, taking 4 points, by a score
of 1013 to 990.

Matches played last Friday:

In Section A, Law defeated Dents
1003 to 916, taking 4 points to the
Dents’ 1.

 

  

If You Want to See Well

 
       

  

- Optometrist and Optician
|] Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

WINNERS FROM THE

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

. Limited

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N.S. ©

 

Ti gers Defeat

an equally close ver-" |

 

“in Basketball

Close Game at Forum First Loss of Season 29-26

 

Despite a final half rally
§ which carried them within
>) a few points of the Wan_derers, Dalhousie Seniors
* failed to close the gap
- and lost their first game of
the Halifax League Satur— day night. Outplayed, or
’ rather outscored in the first
> half 18 to 11, the Tigers
>. led by Davidson, gathered
~~. 15 points in the final session while the Reds were
collecting 11. Long shots
many of which counted,
from far out, spelled defeat
for the Dal team, whose playing was
effective in defensive work, but not
quite effective enough in the attack.
_ Davidson and MacRae were high
liners in the scoring column for the
Tigers, and turned in an effective game,
while Doyle of Wanderers led the
total scoring with eleven points. The
Dal forwards, while playing an excellent
passing game, were away off in their
shooting, and missed many chances to
score. The game was perhaps the
fastest played in the Halifax League
to date, and the result sends the Reds
into the leadership, a game up on Dal,
while the Y and Tech follow. The
teams lines up as follows:
Dalhousie—Guards, Handler (4),
Kennedy, Clarke, Anderson (3); centre,
MacRae (7); forwards, Davidson (9)
Fairstein (1), Bauld (2), Lorway
Dubilier, Creighton. Total 26.
Wanderers—Guards, Fahie (1), C.
Harris, H. Harris, Sperry; centre,
Grant (3); forwards, Rudderham (8),
Piers (2), Doyle (11), Woodworth (4).
Total 29.

 

Dalhousie Tigers were outplayed
in the intermediate basketball league
Saturday ‘night in losing to Wanderers
intermediates by a score of 30 to 138.
The Red and Black led all the way, and
at half time the score was 13 to
Chisholm of the Wanderers turned in a
sensational performance, scoring 18 of
his team’s points, while Borden Stoddard was high scorer for the Tigers.
The line-ups:

Dalhousie—B. Stoddard (6), C.
Stoddard (1), McDonald, McDougall,
Lorway (4), Scott, McIntosh, Thompson (2), Kopf, Smofsky. Total 13.

Wanderers—Chisholm (18), Lucas
(4), Taylor (5), Green (1), Mahoney
si): Mitchell, Wilson, Wheeler. Total

 

GARRICK

Wednesday and Thursday
Feb. 10th and 11th.

HELEN HAYES
in the
“SIN OF MADELON
CLAUDET’

Friday and Saturday
Feb. 12th and 13th.

JANET GAYNOR
CHARLES FARREL

‘Merely Mary Ann’

EVENiNGS 20c. and 30c.
AFTERNOONS 25c.

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

Made T. o

    
     
     
       
   
         
       
         
 

 

ED oe a eee a Lape ng

For Men and Young

Moderately EATON

made to order at EATON’S at
a comparatively small outlay
for the fine quality of suitings
and the perfect fit which we
guarantee in every garment......
Choose your cloth froma smart
range of new spring suitings.
Smart patterns in blue, greys
and and browns, pencil and
cluster
greys and all wool navy serges.
Visit the Men’s Wear Department and place your order for
a new suit to-day!

EATON’S Main Floor

TI

Measure
Suits

Priced At

$22.50
$30.00

Have your new spring suit

stripes, plain oxford

 

  

ee rs ere he ete Fe et Re nam me mrt ee eee ate

au.
fs
bd th = f
i w i . ‘ *
: Ss ' he :
bs he 4 ae Se

». Pies ©

ce
US

 

eb

Tigers Drop One The University

2.| year.

Hockey Team

The Tigers this year are making a

splendid showing in the City Inter
collegiate League. Hockey took a
decided turn for the better last year
and the 1932 team is continuing to
raise the standard. At present the
Yellow and Black are in second place
in the league with decisive wins over
Tech and Kings and a single loss to the
St. Mary’s outfit after one of the most
exciting games of the season. In addition to the league games Dal held
the strong National Fish squad to a
2 all draw; the Fish men handed St.
Mary’s a convincing licking.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Interfaculty

The largest crowd of Dalhousians’

was on hand at the first game with the
Saints and their presence was undoubtedly a factor in.-the good showing of the
Tigers. The council arranged for a
Dal night on that date and trom reports of students it was highly successful. Skating sessions on the nights of
league games is also much more feasible financially for the council than on
dates when they have to hire the rink
alone. Dal plays St. Mary’s during
the week of Feb. 15 and a rink night
on the date of that game should prove
most advantageous to all concerned
and would assure a crowd of supporters
for the hockey team. The date of
this game will be announced this week.
How about it, Council?

A brief resume of the personnell of
this year’s squad follows:

Goal: Ken Purtill, a veteran in intercollegiate circles, neeaing no introduction. He has no superior in the league.

Defense: Douglas Bent, a new man
on the team. ‘This stocky lad is a fast
skater and the hardest bumper on the
lineup.

Wen MacDonald, an erstwhile winger. Amply fills the hole left by the loss
of last year’s defense. Can alwaysbe
depended on to stop his man and to
clear the puck.

Hal Connor, from the football team.
An excellent puck carrier and a husky
checker.

Lea Allanach. The blond boy has
only appeared in two games so far this
Can give it and take it, and
keeps the opposing forwards outside
the blue line.

Forwards: Gerry Coleman, ex-St. F.
X. star. One of the fastest skaters on
the team. Packs a hard shot and is
most aggressive at all times.

Potter Oyler, captain ot the squad.
Potter is a brainy player and his poke
checking is a treat to watch. A leading scorer.

Jim Taylor, a giant from P. E. f.
A fast skater with a bullet shot and
another high scorer.

Louie Ryan, one of the ‘‘hockey
Ryans” from Truro. The most dazzling stickhandler we have this year.
Defence men have their hands full
trying to get.in this lad’s way,

Herbie Grant, an embryo ira who
appears for the first time this year.
His specialty is seizing loose pucks and
putting them behind the rival gealie.
Thinks and acts quickly and is a
valuable man.

Ernie Robb, another new face on
the team. Holds down the. central
position on the ‘‘midget line’ with
Ryan and Grant. Clever puck carrier
and quick thinker. Is always a scoring
threat.

Girls Sports

Badminton.

A little more enthusiasm over badminton is needed before we can have
some real competition and sport in the
coming tournaments. Watch the no
 

t,t

ae — _ So

i Hockey

The Interfaculty Hockey League
witnessed the Engineers and Commerce
battling to a 2-all draw last week.
The line-ups:

Engineers—Goal, Hawboldt; Menzie, Covert, Corkum, Christie, Harries,
Ferguson, Elkin, Smith, Rood.

Commerce— Mahon, Stoddard, Sullivan, O’Brien, Goodman, Herman,
Hewat, MacDonald, Archibald.

Chalking up both scores early in the
first period. Law defeated Arts and
Science by a 2-0 count in a Dalhousie
Interfaculty Hockey struggle at the
Arena last week.

The winners dominated the play
throughout the game and time after
time swooped in on N. Ferguson, who
was playing a stellar game for the
Studley squad. Miller and Hicks
counted for the Lawyers on shots from
the blue line. For the losers Murray
and Dunsworth turned in a fine performance while Miller was the pick of
the winners. The Arts team owing to
the absence of their regular goalie
were forced to use one of their defencemen in the nets.

Law—Smith, goal; Stewart, Grant,
defense; Nichols, Miller, Hicks, Cowan,
LeBrun, forwards.

Arts—N. Ferguson, goal; Dunsworth
Sproul, defense; Smith, C. Stoddard,

Murray, Ferguson, forwards.

Ooiiies Trials - 
(Continued from page 1)

 

 

production is the child of competition.

Mr. Kanigsberg was the only
speaker on the League of Nations
resolution. He engaged in a severe
criticism of its actions during the last
few years. It is sheer nonsense to
say it is effective as at present constituted. In 1921 in the LithuanianPolish dispute it turned a blind eye
to Poland’s misdeeds because France
was a friend of the latter country.
It has done some good work, notably
in the Graeco-Bulgarian dispute. In
a South American dispute it was glad
to be able to turn over the settlement
to the United States. The present
Sino-Jap dispute is a conspicuous
example of its ineffectiveness. The
League has become a laughing stock
for punsters. What could it do in the
event of war between Russia and
United States, or between United and
a signatory to the Covenant? Neither
has it been effective in disarmament.
Conferences for disarmament have
become armament conferences. It had
no international armed forces to carry
out its decrees.

The committee of selection, Professor V. C. MacDonald, Professor Mercer
and Dr. Ronald Hayes, reserved announcement of the personnel of the
teams.

tice boards for further information
about the schedules. Badminton may
be played on Mondays at the King’s
Gym from 9-11 p.m. Tuesdays at the
School for the Blind from 4.30-6.30
p. m. and from 5-6 p. m. on Saturdays
at the King’s Gym.

Basketball. 
Basketball practises are being held
as usual in the Y. W. C. A. on Tuesdays and Thursdays, from 5.30-6.30
p. m. and on Saturday from 12.301.30 p. m.

Ice Hockey.

We have been challenged already
in hockey but our team isn’t where
we would like to see it just yet so don’t
forget hockey practice on Saturdays at
12 noon sharp. We have been awarded a box at the Forum, so we consider
ourselves very fortunate.

“BASKETBALL...
Y.M.C. A. Saturday, Feb. 13

7p. m.
8 p. m.

KING’S vs Y. M. C. A.
N. S. TECH vs WANDERERS _ Senior

Intermediate

9p.m. Y. M. C. A. vs DALHOUSIE Senior

General Admission 25c - Reserved 35c

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

G ym Notes

Interfaculty Basketball. Teams are
requested to be on hand for the remaining scheduled games in the interfaculty
league; just two more weeks and the
three winners will enter the playoff
series, which will likely take place in

the new gymnasium sometime in
March,

Games For Week.

Sat. Feb. 18th. 2 p. m. Theology vs.
Freshmen.
3 p. m. Commerce vs.
Profs.
4 p. m. Law vs. Arts &
Science.

Bowling Schedule.

Mon. Feb. 8th. 7 p. m. Engineers vs.
Medicine.
9 p. m. Law vs. Fresh
men.
Wed. Feb. 10th 7 p. m. Commerce vs.
Prot’s.
9 p. m. Medicine vs.

Theology.

Fri. Feb, 12th. 7 p. m. Engineers vs.
Theology.

Mon, Feb. 15th7 p. m. Prof’s vs. Arts
& Science.

On completion of the above schedule,
the winners in Sec. A. B. and C. will
playoff for the University Championship.

Boxing.

Everything is in readiness for the
Dalhousie boxers to commence daily
practice in preparation for the University and Intercollegiate Championships
in the St. Mary’s Gym.

Fencing.

The fencing equipment has arrived
and some of our fencers are anxious to
get in some practice on the new mats
which will be installed in the Smallgymnasium by the 15th. inst., but will
not be ready for use until the end ot the
month.

Wrestling.

The new wrestling mat to be installed

in the lower-gym. will likely be used to }

Capacity during the remainder of the

CASINO

Thur. to Sat.
Feb. 11-12-13

ZANE GREY’S
“Rainbow Trail”

Starring

GEORGE O’BRIEN

Monday to Wednesday
Feb. 15-16-17

 

 

 

 

‘“‘Surrender”
with
WARNER BAXTER
LEILA HYAMS

 

 

 

Still the Forum ice remains bad for
Intercollegiate Hockey. Last Thursday night the-Dalhousie and King’s
teams arrived at the rink to find it in
possession of two scrub hockey teams
by whom the Forum had been hired
from6to7. The Intercollegiate games
started at 7 o’clock with the ice fairly
well covered with snow and cut up
considerably, no attempt having been
made either to sweep the ice or plow
the snow off.

Last Thursday night’s games finished
the Halifax intercollegiate hockey league for the season, and next comes
play in the maritime intercollegiate
league, in which each team will play
the other once in a series to decide the
playdowns for the maritime title.
Some of the teams, not excepting Dalhousie unfortunately, will not have
as strong line-ups for this series, as
those players who have been conditioned will be unable to participate, as
well as players who have played four
years of intercollegiate hockey. At
time of writing, the maritime series
was slated to start on Monday night
of this week, with Dalhousie meeting
Tech, and St. Mary’s going up against
King’s.

Dalhousie Tigers put up a strong
showing in losing their first game of
the Halifax basketball league to Wanderers by the close margin of three
points. Forced to resort to long shots
when they failed to break the Tigers
defence, the Red and Black showed to
advantage, and made many baskets
from the centie of the floor. From
the look of the scores to date, it is
anybody’s championship, excluding the
Halifax Y and Teck.

 

The Swedish-Stall-bars, Pulley-weights, rowing-machine, etc., will also be
located in the lower-gym for general
and class work.

Track Team to use Upper-Gym
The Dal-Intercollegiate track team

will commence training when the
upper-gym. is completed.

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

In accordance with persistent demand we have decided
to carry a line of magazines.
We can arrange, and would be
pleased to supply you with any
periodical you regularly buy.

We will also sell yearly subscriptions to Canadian, American and Foreign publications.

 

 

 

Look Into

Your

 

Living Room

up to your ideas of

_your neighbor’s?

Is it really ‘‘Livable.’’

 

Does it measure

comfort and ease?

Is it as well arranged and equipped as

We have all that your heart could ask

for in the way of modern furniture,

 

lamps, rugs, hangings, pictures. A vast
S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.
“Furnishers of Happy Homes”

448-450 Barrington St.

Halifax,

:
display at very moderate prices.

Canada.

 

oe ee eet ae | Se
