*

" potent aay
(ee 7 a8)

VOL.

~ Dalhousian Wins Rhodes
Scholarship

- Honour goes to
A. Gordon Cooper

Dalhousie is once more highly
honoured by one of her sons, for late
in December, A. Gordon Cooper was
selected from a field of fourteen candidates to represent Nova Scotia as a
Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University,
England.

Gordon, or ‘“Coop’’ as he is more
familiarly known, is a graduate of
Kings Collegiate School, Windsor, and
came to Dalhousie with the Governor
General’s Medal. In '27 he entered
the Commerce Course and after a
brilliant career graduated, as president
of his class, with a Bachelor of Com‘merce Degree. In his Sophomore and

junior years he won the Commercial

‘lub Scholarship, and now his studies
extend to the field of Law.

During his undergraduate days he
was very prominent both in his studies
and extra-curricular work. In 1929,
he was President of the Commerce
Society, a post which he filled exceptionally. well.

As a debater his prowess was known
and respected by all Dalhousie; now
he is President of Sodales Debating
‘Society. In spite of all this extra
work, he was Managing Editor of the
Dalhousie Gazette last year. ‘‘Coop’”’
was one of the mainstays of the Dal
Football Team for three years, and
both hockey and tennis claim him as
a proficient player. -
_ Besides being one of the best known
figures on the Campus, Gordon is
President of the Phi Kappa Pi Social
Fraternity. The Gazette joins with the
students of the University in wishing
“Coop” the best of luck in his future
_stndies at Oxford. We may rest assur
~ ed that Dalhousie willbe well repre
sented by the Rhodes Scholar for 1932.
ear res

Bd) oo, 21.5.)

     
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

MR. A. G. CGOPER.
nee a ee

Two days after Christmas, Jock
Kent was seen struggiing to light a
rather new looking pipe on a busy downtwon street corner. Yeo was standingby giving helpful advice, encourage.
ment and in the end congratulations

Campbell Fraser was in St. John,
N. B. for New Year’s. What’s the
attraction, Cam?

Sayre Chandler and Eldon Eagles
are progressing nicely, having sacrificed their tonsils during the holidays.

— + em SS

LA CERCLE FRANCAISE.

The next French Club meeting will
be held Thursday January 15. Social
functions will be discussed and we are
hoving that a large number will take
part in the programme that we have

planned for this meeting.

 

of the

 

   

Ms. Mackie, mother of the bride, and
‘Mrs. Allen, mother of the groom

The Snappy Start

Social Swirl

Dalhousians Wed
at Sydney

A charming wedding of particular
interest to many Dalhousians, took
place in the First United Church,
Sydney, on December 29th when
Margaret Mackie, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. I. C. Mackie of Sydney was
united in marriage with W. Graham
Allen of Halifax. The ceremony was
peiformed by the Rev. Wilfred Gaetz.

The bride appeared very graceful
and lovely in her wedding-gown of
ivory satin with train and long embroidered silk net veil and cap of lace.
She entered the Church on the arm of
her father to the beautiful strains of
the ‘‘Bridal Chorus” from Lohengrin,
played by the organist, Mr. A. F.
McKinnon, F. T. C. L. She carried
a bouquet of ivory roses, lilies of the
valley, and maidenhair fern. The
church was tastefully adorned with

flowers reflective of the Spirit of
Yuletide.
The bridesmaids were Miss Con
stance Mackie, sister of the bride, and
Miss Alice Archibald of Halifax, formerly of Sydney. They were dressed
in green and pink georgette gowns
respectively, cut on Empress Eugenie
lines with short puff sleeves. The
attendants carried bouquets of chry
santhemums and maidenhair fern.
Mr. Norman H. Bayne of Halifax

supported the groom.

A full choir was in attendance and
during the signing of the register, they
rendered the bridal chorus, from ‘‘The
Rose Maiden.” The selection was
exremely well done. As the bridal
party left the Church the organisa

layed the harmonious Wedding March
by Mendelssohn.

Following the ceremony, a reception
was held at the home of the bride’s
parents, 90 Cromarty Street, where

  
 
     
  
 
   
   
 

received with the happy couple. The
rooms were decorated with chincheriches from South Africa. Mr. and

ful honeymoon to Upper Canada
On their return, they will reside in
Halifax.

Both are past graduates of Dalhousie University, Mr. Allen having
obtained his Bachelor of Arts Degree
in 1929 and Mrs. Allen in 1930. The
former is at present News Editor of the
Halifax Chronicle and was for several
years connected with the Dalhousie
Gazette. The wide circle of friends
whom the young couple possess, will
learn of their marriage with interest.

co. r. C. Note

With the parade on Wednesday the

 

been officially begun. This year should
show still better results in this important movement. Let us not be weary
of well-doing.

Mrs. Allen afterwards left on a delight- |.

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 7th, 19382.

 

The Late DR. W. H. HATTIE

Assistant Dean

 

The University has been called upon

to deeply mourn the sad loss incurred
by the death of one of its most capable
administrators, Dr. Hattie, who, for
nine years had occupied the position
of assistant dean of the Dalhousie

Medical School,

With great unex
pectedness, the Grim Messenger of

death came on December 5th, remov
ing from our midst an active, noble
gentleman, a kindly, learned teacher,
and a devoted and esteemed member

of the Medical profession.

Dr. Hattie was a Nova Scotian, born

in Pictou county in the year 1870

His early education was received at
Pictou Academy, proceeding later to
McGill where he graduated in Medicine while still a mere youth. Since
then, Dr. Hattie has had a distinguished career, winning wide recognition not only in his native province
but throughout Canada as a medical
men of outstanding ability.

In 1898, Dr. Hattie was appointed
Superintendent of the Nova Scotia
Hospital and for a number of years
rendered invaluable service to that
institution. Then, after a term of

S office as Provincial Public Health

officer, he became Assistant Dean of
Dalhousie Medical School which post
he filled with great acceptance until

C. O. T. C. activities for 1932 will have his death.

During his sojourn at Dalhousie, he
was ever a source of inspiration both
to the staff and students alike, in that
he possessed those traits of character

At this time of year, most students] which marked him as a man of culture.
seem less inclined for study than,during| He was an industrious worker, a diliany other part o: the term; nevertheless| gent student thoroughly conversant
I hasten to remind the members of this| with the most recent developments in

unit, especially those who are trying| medical science, earnestly interested
for the “A” Certificate that the ex-|in the welfare of the students, a keen

aminations are not far off, and that
if the wish to be a credit to the university they would do well to begin now.
Any who have not as yet procured their
their books may do so by applying
either to Q. M. S. Corkum or to the
Orderly Officer.

It is interesting to note that .n a
recent plebiscite among college students in the United States, the vote
was overwhelmingly in favour of the
total abolition of all purely military
schools and colleges; and also, although
by a much smaller majority, against
military training of any kind in any
institutions of learning.

—»-o__—_

 

Glee Club Pre
pares Show

On or about the 29th of this month
the Glee Club will present ‘‘The Betrayal,”’"a one act play in the Navy
League Theatre.. The scene of the
play lies in Ireland and the time is
some hundred and fifty years ago.
As yet no roles have been cast. We

“Bob’’ Dove spent part of the Xmas |have heard it rumoured in reliable

holidays in Stellarton, the guest of| circle

Freeman Stewart. At Truro due to
an unwielding suitcase that just would.
n’t be hurried Bob missed a train that
just wouldn't wait.
your suitcase next time, Bob.

  
      
 

  

   

 

Better handles on| Magnum opus as it were.

s that Doug and his merry men
are planning something really big for
the opening of the New Gym—their
The Gym
will likely be opened next month.

 

ed that his knowledge was extensive.

THE ANNUAL

BOILERMAKERS

 

No. 8

| Year Book Editor
Makes Statement

| Cooperation is Solicited

   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  

 

News From pia
King’s College Once more the Year Book claims

the attention of a large group ofstudents in the annual activities of Dalhousie University. As yet, a complete
During the holidays erstwhile grid-|staff has not been selected but the
iron rivals met in triendly competition | nucleus of what promises to be a very
on the basketball floor of the St. John| helpful and energetic one has been
Y. M. C. A., when Acadia defeated | appointed. ;
King’s 57-26. The score, we under- Bob Brown, Commerce '382, is Busstand, did not indicate the play and| imess Manager and has already rounded

ae 4

the game had its full measure of speed| many things into shape. Douglas
and excitement. The Acadians lined| MacIntosh, M. A. ‘31, 1s Critique
up with three senior and two inter-|Editor and associated with him is
mediate men, while King’s had Regan, | Miss C. O. Hebb, '82. Miss Elizabeth
Hart, Tapley, G. Smith and Algie| Saunderson, Photographic Editor;
Brittain, senior Dalhousie hoopster.| Larry Teasdale, Sport Editor, and

Tapley was high scorer for King’s and| Douglas Gibbon, Med. °33, Feature
Bernie Ralston did the honours for| Editor. Several more are needed beAcadia. The first City Intermediate | fore there will be a full staff and any
tilt will be held when King’s meets] who are interested in the publication
St. John’s on Jan. 28rd. Regular]of the Year Book, or in this kind of
practices have begun and, with all] work,are asked to make their interest
last year’s team, new comers and|known to any members of the staff.
Vic. Regan as captain, the team should} Any help in this way would ‘be much
go far. appreciated,
More definite facts as to form and

Hockey prospects at King’s are by| manner of production will be made
no means bright this season. Two|known as the work proceeds. The
stalwarts of last year, Murray Zinck,|cooperation of all Dalhousians is
Capt. and Hal Stanfield, are no longer| solicited now that the high standard
with us and the services of this year’s] achieved by our predecessors may be
Captain, Alton Earle and Fred Moore| maintained in the 1982 edition. Now
will not be available. Freddie Cole,|is the time for suggestions and ideas |
on the forward line for the past four|in the various departments which go
years, 1s not turning out. King’s|to make up a University Year Book.
opening game is scheduled on January| These suggestions and ideas will be
7th when the team clashes with St.| gratefully accepted by those who are
Mary’s. immediately concerned in producing
‘‘Pharos,’’ and inasmuch as it 1s your

On December 31st King’s co-eds,| Year Book it is up to the students of
resident in Rothesay, N. B., gaye a] Dalhousie to make it so.. After publivery enjoyable party at Mr. E. Pud-| cation it will be too late to make it
dington’s camp at Fair Vale. About! what it might have been. ‘
twenty of the St. John students attend- You are asked to watch the coming
ed. issues of the Gazette for further infor
Sor mation when your cooperation may

It was recently announced that Dr.| take definite form.

Burns Martin, popular King’s pro- >
Vice President

of Medicine

observer of human nature, sympathetic, tolerant, loyal, courteous, trustworthy, and a man of great moral
courage.

As a teacher, Dr. Hattie was particularly suited to his calling. His
genial nature in the class-room was
always in evidence. His lectures show
fessor, has been invited to lecttire this
year in the summer school, Harvard
University. Professor Martin will give
Advanced English Composition and English Literature, 1700-1745.

Not only as a teacher, but as a writer,
his literary ability of no mean order,
enabled him to write very interestingly,
chiefly on subjects of professional interest.

As Assistant dean, he was always
ready to listen to a student’s problem.
to give helpful advice and encouragement. His conscientious and_ selfsacrificing devotion to the details: of
this office, and his generous, kindly
spirit in dealing with all those with
whom he came in contact, made him
a man beloved by all.

Few men in the medical profession
in Eastern Canada were better and
more favorably known. He performed
many parts and did them all well.
He was a loyal member of the church,
a true Christian gentleman, the very
soul of honor.

The memory of lives such as this

will be reverently and forever shared
not by the profession alone, not by
the University alone, but by the
thousands of people throughout this
province and the Dominion who had
the privilege of knowing him.
_ His loss to Dalhousie will never be
forgotten. He has won an everlasting
place in the history of this university
as one of its great men.

To the members of his family, the
students of Dalhousie express their
sincere sympathy.

Choral Club Held
Meeting

The Choral Club held their first
meeting of this year on Tuesday,
January 5. A large number of the
members were absent but an early
beginning like this we hope will encourage the others to be there next
time in order to prepare for the future
programme. The meetings will continue to take place in Shirreff Hall at
the usual time on Tuesday evenings.

   
   
 

 

 

The ravaging effects of the recent
terminal struggles made their way into
the halls of King’s as elsewhere. The
Fieshmen, as ustal, are awed and
even some veterans of three and four
years standing are rudely shocked.
Regrets are prevalent and New Year's
resclutions are being hastily reinforced.
All of which detracts from the general
effect of New Year’s cheer and prosperity.

Fraternity Notes

 

The various Fraternity Houses have
been strangely quiet and deserted
during the holidays—with little or no
activities going on.

From Delta Sigma Pi we hear that
Bob Machum is still basking in sunny
Bermuda. Despite rumors that he
will be home on Jan, 8th, trom what
we hear his sojourn will be of much
longer duration. The reason—‘‘Cherchez la femme!”’

MR. D. G. GRANT

 

At the annual convention of the
Federation of Canadian University Students held last week in
Hamilton, Mr. Don Grant was

Prof. Ralph Ells and Rex Le Cook | elected second vice president. Durmotored to Boston for the holidays. ing the past year Mr. Grant has
: represented this University in the
Federation. A report of the Convention will be printed next week.

W. C. MacKenzie is representing
the Dalhousie Chapter of Phi Rho
Sigma at the Bi-ennial Convention of
the Fraternity being held at Atlanta,
Georgia.

Mr. MacKenzie is expected to return
around Jan. 8th.

 

Commerce Society
Meets

On Thursday last the Commerce
Society held an open meeting in Room

The Social Committee of Phi

Rho|4 at noon. George The S nt
; : ; 4 ¢ f org 1ompson conHarry Roberts, first year Med Sigma are planning a delightful House| ducted the meeting from the chair
student who underwent an operation| Party to be held during the third week | and plans were discussed for the
for appendicitis before Xmas, has|in January. Active preparations are| Millionaires Ball, Interfaculty Basket
moved nearer the Forrest Building.

I being made to assure the complete! ball and
We'll miss him.

aS meetings for the future.
success ot this Dance.

About forty members were present.

  

 

Nova Scotian
Hotel
January 15, 1932

  

emery i!

eS 2
   
     

COMMENT

The Mahatma at Home.
Dictatorship in Germany.

The Mahatma at Home.
Mr. Gandhi has gone home atter a

  

 
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   

       
    

; iiss Managing Editors:

Rem tl A geee es hv ~ Beene . quite graceful leave-taking of Europe.
| ‘THOMAS D. MacDONALD, B.A. THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295| Press reports have it that his prestige
te Peake « £-onGn . ° WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995] is on the wane, and has been so since
.<- AV They 8 on Ue ceaointess : he started for London.
Baie erate Ait a . : his first post-Round Table speech,
ff eng 5 H. B. CHANDLER delivered in Bombay on Dec. 28th,
pe . LILLIAN SADLER, B. A. failed to provoke the frequent outoe. os DANIEL SPRY bursts of applause which heretofore

hailed his meetings. The burthen of

Sports Editor: 
R. D. DUCHEMIN } labour steadfastly for the particular
B9603

; ideal of Indian independence and
ie ' News Editor. liberty on which he has set his heart.
oT AR ee we tte ee te td MARGARET DORMAN The speech was notable for the blunt

statement that he would not stop at
the sacrifice of a million lives to attain

ELIZABETH MURRAY

. i

 

 

PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. S.
Pies ree ee es | peace.

DALHOUSIE’S NEW RHODES SCHOLAR.

It appears that the

 

to adopt firmer and

ue ty For the third consecutive time Dalhousie has been honoured} last year.
z by having the Nova Scotia Rhodes Scholar selected from her

student ranks. This year the recipient of the much-coveted
phe" award is Mr. A. Gordon Cooper, who will journey to the old counet try next October to complete his Law course at Oxford University.| very funny indeed.
body;the versatility of hisinterests, his outstanding ability,
fine character are well known to all. Indeed, it may be said with- sciivicet for Mreeumutiian allies:
hood could not have been chosen.

interest in Mr. Cooper’s achievement, since last term he was in- Speen

other poses in which

v

A SPORTSMAN PASSES.

2 yesteryear, were sorrowfully recalled by the recent tragic death t
of Dr. M. Brent Haslam, former gridiron star, and one time captain] jroctice.
of the Tigers. He and his brother Monte formed perhaps the
|. They played side by side through several seasons along
es Os caked team-mates as Fabie Bates, Lee Fluck and Art
|}  ~— = Lilly. In 1922, Brent successfully captained the squad. Two det
| —_._ years later he graduated in Medicine, and eventually took up his] Dictatorship in Germany.
_ residence in Buffalo. It was near there on Christmas Eve last, that
_-—s he met with the fatal accident which cut short an already promising
career A speeding motor car, a sudden skid on the icy, treacher-| now in th
ous pavement, and Dr. Haslam was mortally injured. Yet despite one aes, *
See his passing, the record for clean, gentlemanly Sporfeimanship which) Aigenberg, Hale. and beearty gt
he left at the College By The Sea still lives, even in the minds of
those of us who knew him solely by repute. And while we mourn
_ ‘his untimely decease, we are proud to preserve that record among

a

_. our athletic traditions.

other peoples.

of state, which admittedly require

  
  
  
 

 
   

‘ Bit. rt
4 ave

      
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
    
 
   
    
  
 

 

~

and retiring, and

dictatorship.”

_- -PHE CONQUEST OF PREJUDICE.

aie One of the deadliest foes which mankind has to combat, is
prejudice. In all spheres of human activity this same disastrous
tendency will be found eating away at year eae ea in- ieee Bud iene sissy enoug
- tellectual integrity, honesty, and fair-mindedness. So-called “‘na- ; rt can be ;
tionalism”’ ana Vente Cpaliotism'’ are based on prejudice; politics complished in a most serious situation
dee and popular religion reek with it; contemporary education is shamea. - fully polluted by it; the man on the street is obsessed with it; and | of affairs. .
. no one entirely escapes its insidious influence. Indeed, a com-| The present dictatorship seeks, with
letely unbiased history ot bias would outline every great event that
ee as occurred on our terrestrial orb, from the appearance of homo
ea. Neanderthalis to Ghandi and the Round Table Conference.
Dt vided of course, the author of such a history were an expurgated
. edition of Mr. H G. Wells. Hitlerites on the other are painfully
“a . Prejudice is dangerous because it is an eternal enemy of truth.| aware of the fact. At the last session
| It does not want questions to be considered in an open-minded | of the Chamber allowed to sit for a few
manner; it has glibly decided the answer beforehand, like the old ee that Be sige carpe
orthodox philosopher who was constantly arresting his speculative]? ogorsation dieu tected tad & nae
search for the everlasting verities, ‘“‘to take theological bearings.’’|of members. Bruening himself’ took
Biased persons, therefore, do not desire a disinterested pursuit of]over the Foreign Ministry, while
wisdom. They care not a whit how people thing: it is what they oe sr nceetly 2 esa the
_think that must be firmly established. And thus prejudice is an The EARLE ee es
inseparable ally of intolerant dogmatists, bombastic propagandists, | its program of rigid and drastic tax
| and all exploiters of intellectua! freedom. levying and internal expenditure cur; eee A classic example of the colossal stupidity to which bigoted ee ee eu of with the financial
minds will attain, is the well-known hostility of certain Fundamen- niahed oa ert ee
talist religions in the southern United States, towards the theory of| Deputies, and they bowed—by a slim
' organic evolution. Their hatred of Darwin not only led them to| majority. Then they were sent home.
deny his teaching, but also to prohibit by legislation the reading] While the German situation shows

unduly ostentatious or objectionable
about it. That it is a dictatorship is,
Pro-|of course, quite evident. The disgruntled members of the Reichstag,
Communists on the one wing and

 

 

  
  

 

ie) e6 any book containing the doctrine. They were sure that Darwin no immediate sign of becoming less
ie Blinded by prejudice, they refused | able control is engaged in doing everyRe , to examine the matter at all.
7! ! Bruening has put everytving into one
dogmatically that the communism of the Soviets cannot possibly ! ;
show if that bolt, his drastic measures,

__ it is merely an expression of personal prejudice, is somewhat ob-| clusion is Hitlerism or anarchy,
__-_——s again, not because unbiased evidence points in that direction, but
Asn it ale leat hope is there for a conquest of prejudice? Well, in the].
et mn state of human development, not very much. However] Think no more, lad; laugh, be jolly:
V O a grea ) Make the rough road easy walking,
_tivate an attitude of detachment. While they watch an amoeba
re not h ed by the fear that some preconceived plan may be Spins the heavy world around.

res, in abeyance, and follow truth wheresoever it leads them. Lae Lede ke cen n ea g

am , . : loomy it is some. satisfacti f
~~ must be wrong, because his scientific evidence contradicted their F y Rakse on
thing possible to prevent the tid blowA similar attitude exists in our own time, for instance, in regard
last effort, has fired his last bolt. It
a ’ gueceed One } er suc judg-|§"
vo : succeed One hears it everywhere But whether such a judg will take effect and prevent national
secure. Inanumber of cases, it seems very likely the latter. People| ’ ;
No More
they possess an instinctive hostility towards communistic
7 _ cit is goes that an increased diffusion of the scientific spirit ee pasa Ser Make Baar te die?
ee | And the feather pate of folly
hrough the microscope, they are not swayed by political or religious
- tee .
shattered. They merely watch, record, and adjust their theories| If young hearts were not so clever,
; OW | ‘ ee Lays lads underground.
| of mental maturity. And by this, prejudice may

  
  
 

Ea

foreign governments to know that an
own pet, cut-and-dried beliefs.
ing off. There is a general belief that
4 . ; to Russia. Many reputable persons are going about declaring
: remains for the winter months to
_--—~—-: ment is the result of a dispassionate culling of the facts, or whether collapse. If it fails the logical con‘make up their minds beforehand that Russia is about to crumble Thin k
» aeeinies, Lad
Seeeoa ee npty heads and tongues a-talking
oa great deal For scientists, more than anybody else culBears the falling sky.
ations. When they carry out chemical experiments, they Oh, ‘tis jesting, dancing, drinking
a", to suit new facts. In short, they place all personal hopes, fears, | Oh, they would be young forever:
A. E. Houseman,

 

 

 

| PASSING BLOW

At any rate <r ee

his speech reiterated his policy to:

Business Manager: RUTH CRANDALL Asst. Business Manager: | not end. That intrudes a very stern

aud ' NALD MAHON CHARLES CLARKE, B. A. note in the Gandhi chorus.
pa B1826 B2436 Since the collapse of the London
a Se Proof Editors: Conference the British authorities have
iat Aa af AARON ZIVE, B. Sc. been systematically preparing their
pe, ta EDWARD B. HIGGINS forces to preserve order in the country.

Magistrates and police. officials nave
been granted very wide discretionary
powers to deal with violators of the
Home
Government feels itself quite prepared
more martial
measures than those taken with offenders in the disobedience campaign of

The tense atmosphere of the situation is somewhat relieved by the behaviour cf the Mahatma which appears,
to Western eyes at least, frequently
The eho and
(Te te 4 Oj ¥ ndergraduate | cartoonists of many English and transIt is not necessary to introduce Mr. Cooper to the underg Pe ante Ge ee, eae
little, spare figure of the India er a

erout reservation, that a worthier representative of Canadian man-|tainly he cuts a figure which, in our
The Gazette feels a very special|eyes, is anything but awe-inspiring.
His latest venture is the purchase of
British Bombay is looking

»  timately associated with the paper. For this reason particularly, | forward hopefully to the Mahatma's
pe the Editors would extend to him most sincere congratulations and] first public appearance on this mode of
Jae best wishes for an auspicious future. conveyance. It should be good, al
though hardly more ludicrous than
he has been
photographed. We have always had

¢ a Be idea that any leaders
{ 3 ootball game of| must have some measure of dignity in
Faded phantasies of matty 4 hard-fought | heir appearance, or that the slightest
touch of the 1idiculous is fatal to their
Perhaps Gandhi makes a
[ good appearance in the eyes of an
best known fraternal combination in Dalhousie’s athletic history. | Indian Nationalist; but we fail to see
with such|how his appearance, per se, could
ever command respect in the eyes of

i he G n shi Bs: ;

Jee euidence of "the Germm a or so Critiques to a single person whose
a deal of management in these days,
now rests in the hands of a rather
sident vo arte
arcecent 84. ought to express only the credit side
Chancellor Bruening, seemingly ascetic |0f the subject’s ledger.
46, and Minister
Groener, 63, the soldier placed to clean
up the mess after Ludendorff had hotfooted it to Sweden, these three con: stitute what one correspondent has
Rie Adie oo called a ‘‘velvet-handed, iron-sinewed

The circumstances which brought
this rather incongruous trio to the

place of command in a nation which : owen
requires a little master control if|@PPeared in the Gazette an editorial

anything ever did would make a fine|@8@imst moving pictures with con} | clusions unfavourable to the mechanical
}

be acrather than on the turns of fortune} Wh° replied with an article from the
which brought these three to the head | Pe" of a person of reputed authority

some success, to dictate without being

A Shropshire Lad.| Oxford University.

ee “ i er t n ‘ale i ‘ sa : i ie ; ’
Peart . ne,
aa ei 8 2 | DALHOUSIE GAZETTE January 7th, 1932

 

THE Dr. MacMechan Honoured

 

Happy New Year. .

The Principle of. Suspense.
The Coming Year Bock.
The Talkies.

A Dalhousie Rink.

Happy New Year.

We said it before, but venture to
repeat “Happy New Year, Everybody”’
Indications this new year point to
the average-sized crop of resolutions.
We hope that among the few that will
not be broken will be those mace by
Dalhousians to contribute to the
Gazette during the Spring Term.

The Principle of Suspense.
As the time to ‘‘go to press” draws
near, we note that most of the exam.

results have been made public. The
systemj, employed to: publish the
Christmas returns we have always

regarded as a diabolically ingenious
instrument of refined torture. To
the suspense of the hit-or-miss student
arising: from ignorance of success or
failure is added the suspense of speculating and whether or not, in the case
of one or more plucks, the newspaper
publication will be delayed until he
has again departed for college. To
be criticised in a letter is preferable
by far to being criticised in person.

The Coming Year Book.

In the very near future we expect
to publish the names of the staffmembers of the 1931-82 Year Book.
The publication of this most important
history of University life is a difficult
and usually thanklessjob. The Editor,
to succeed, must combine in his staff
the artist, the /itterateur, the humorist
and the philosopher, and the margin
between success and failure is a very
narrow one where excellency can only
be achievedgthrough, skilful and in
genious little variations in a plan
itself practically standard.

In the final analysis the favour with
which the volume is received depends
largely upon the quality of the critiques. Last year the Year Book was
in our opinion, unfortunate in the
appointment of some of the critique
editors. They may have been competent writers but, they didn-t know
their subjects, Critiques ought to be
written by the best friends of the
graduate, by those who are familiar
with him, know who he is, where he
has come from, what he has done and
where his interests have lain, The
scheme of farming out half a hundred

 

DR. ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN.

Another glowing gem was recently, will present students with romantie
added’ to Dalhousie’s brilliant crown|and accurate pictures of the stirring
of glory, when Dr. Archibald Mac-|days when ‘wooden ships and iron
Mechan, who last term retired from| men”’ sailed the seven seas, and Nova
forty years active service as head of | Scotia's sailors were the best of them
our Department of English, was award- | all.
ed the Lorne Pierce Medal by the
Royal Society of’ Canada, for his outstanding contributions to the literature
of the Dominion. Intimation of this
signal honour was received with enthusiastic acclaim by all Dalhousians,
as a significant and salutary recognition of a literary reputation as distinguished as it is widespread.

In the actual life of our University,
Dr. MacMechan was always an active
participant. His never-flagging interest in the MacDonald Memorial
Library played no mean part in its
steady development, and as Head
Librarian for nearly a score of years
he faithfully supervised its progress.
As George Munro Professor of English
Language and Literature, ne worked
with unceasing energy to keep the
department at a high standard. He
was always willin~ to lend a cheerful
hand in student affairs, and continually strove to stimulate amon~ the
undereraduate body that attitude of
quiet earnest scholarship which every
university should possess. At present
Dr. MacMechan is travelline in the
British Isles, and not lone avo paid a
visit to Dalhousie Castle, the ancient
home of Ramsay, Ninth Earl, the
founder of our Colleve. Yet wherever
he may wander in the future, he can
be assured of the fond wishes of all the

sons of the Colleve by the Sea, and as

Dr.. MacMechan is a graduate of
the University of Toronto, from which
institution he received his Bachelor of
Arts degree in 1884. Five years later
he came “down east” to the College by
the Sea, and adopted Nova Scotia’s
rockbound shores as his own. Indeed,
he has never ceased to sing her praises
in all his books, and has done no small
part in historizing Bluenose traditions.
His most noted productions are ‘Old
Province Tales,” ‘‘There go the Ships,”’
‘Sagas of the Sea,” ‘Headwaters of
Canadian Literature,’ and several
others. All these are written in Dr.
MacMechan’s peculiarly limpid, attractive style. They contain a certain
piquant charm, an old world mellowness, together with the salt tang of a
lusty Atlantic sea-breeze, which othe

knowledge ‘of the person about whom
he writes is the most formal is most
unsatisfactory. Again, the critique
There are
places, lots of places, for adverse
criticism, but the Year Book is, manifestly, not one of them. In this
respect last year’s Book was exemplary.
The capacity in a Year Book for
perpetuating a useless sting for a life
time is one that ought not to be utilized
The Talkies.

Some time before Christmas there

them invaluable contributions to the |4¢™monstrated by the Royal Society
Dominion’s rapidly growing literature.| Medal, the esteem of all cultured
Long decades from now, these stories Canadians.

CaS eS

Our Annual
Discount Sale

For Ten Days only we ar
offering a reduction of

20%, off
All suits
All overcoats
All furnishings

This is an opportunity to purchase your winter
clothing at a distinct saving over the regular
selling price.

stage. This editorial drew immediate
fire from the manager of a local theatre

 

on the subject in vindication of the
mo.tes or talkies. Unfortunately this
article was for a time mislaid, but
during the vacation it came to light
and appears on page four of this issue.
We commend those students who read
the editorial to turn to page four and
to read the article. We leave them to
draw their own conclusions.

 

A Dalhousie Rink.

During vacation we heard it rumoured that Dal would play Tech in the
first game of the season on about
January 12th. We hope that, in
pursuance of the policies of other
years, the game will be followed by a
Dal skating session with admittance
only to Dal and Tech students and
with a good band in attendance.
Many disparage the value of these
sessions, ‘They are nights (they say)
when everybody at Dal who ever heard
tell of skates thinks it his duty to beg
borrow or steal a pair and to impersonate Dicken’s glacial misfit at the
Forum.”” But we approve of these
sessions. At least they tend to make
Dalhousie ice-conscious and to supply
the sharp edge of a wedge that may in
future be used to open up the supporters of the University to the extent
of a Dalhousie Rink. And this idea
isn’t so impossible as it may seen at
first sight. The Forum after all is qa
long way from the centre of the city
and a longer way from the South End.
A good Rink on the Studley Campus
might not only prove self-supporting
but might be made to pay off a considerable portion of the pre-requisite
capital.

 

 

—

Personals

Professor George E. Wilson. spent
the Christmas season at his home in

Perth, Ontario} |
Miss Ruth Crandall was:a guest of | | anes ( nS
her aunt Mrs. C, St. J. Wilson, Waeg
woltic Ave., Halifax, during the holi50 Spring SHOP Garden pa.

days.

Mr. Fulton C. Underhay, Arts '29,
Rhodes Scholar '31 was in the city
recently on a shcert vacation from

 

he

 

 
  

    

      

: <i
i ie * ae
. 4 S rs
ArTYV | : }
; yt S . ‘ Gi all
p Toles
—— nea a
Brite sah
» : Q «
r y y . f a
¥ ff = . '
i Wee Fr ay
: lh

  
  
   

OT, fi

Ue
< 7
ss! : 2°

 
 

- oo 4
a bt = ah i
4 ie ri
: i <tr

4 ‘ 5) Le 4 _e
, « * ‘i ai

By SE ae

-? Tb yy a iy
cid = pe es

vam TASS ft i +»

7: Cae 4 ‘ A ._<

eee eS:

he: LNT pe, a
ee A ae

       

~*~ + $28 7e attend a un. WY iversity whose
. reputation in things
\ moral and spiritual
| is as bad as our evilminded critics can
~makeit. Shirreff Hall
is popularly believed
to be a place where
old fashioned] girls
learn to be modern,
ap Te and modern _ girls
BY Oe eke be Clara ..Bows,, The
‘frat’ houses are places of mysterious
iniquity. The doings of Pine Hill
_ penetrate even to the sewing circles
of remotest Cape Breton. Religion
_ is a byword on the campus; the pure
- milk of the word is everywhere polluted,
-and the forces of materialism and
atheism are rampant in our midst.
In truth, our reputation is not an
enviable one. ry!
‘What are we to do about it? Should
“we invite our churches and our synagogue to step in and reform us? Should
i} Ne we appoint a spiritual director for
Bh ee Shrireff Hall? Or should weadopt. the
American method and make a statis_ tical survey to determine the percentage of infidelity and swearing in our
midst? This procedure has proved
most. popular in’ some educational
~ centres. By means of the information
so gathered the college authorities are
able to prepare probability tables.
They are able to predict, for instance,
just what percentage of freshmen are
likely to acquire the habit of carrying

Ar

tag

Vi ale

a cee ee >
a os :
a

d mn : hip-flasks. of how many coeds will
ys , use lip-stick of Al brilliance. These
fe; y are useful facts; but up till now our

university authorities have entirely
neglected this field of information.
' Very instructive results have been
; obtained from religious and moral
_ statistics at Ripon College.

Freshmen Submit to Tests.

_, : s

All the freshmen who matriculated
ee at Ripon College were given a series of
‘tests covering their religious, moral,
and popular beliefs. If they had not
been freshmen they probably would
- *_‘ not have submitted to these tests; but
5 being freshmen they did submit, and
i . with ‘the following results. It is
worthy of note that these freshmen
were pure and sweet from school—
not having attended a single lecture
or college dance, their judgment was
X jn no way biased or perverted by
™.. academic influences. —
AS - Table I.
ty deat 4 ie ie " ¥
’ ist of Religious Propositions, an
hate of individuals who believed

7
x

» ¥

I
Sk Aa ial,
as Fua

a !
ri ® ’

1

he Ten Commandments should be

obeyed. ...-- Ph ily aires areaie ns ahs
Existence of God.........055-. 96
Resurrection of the body........
A day of final judgment.......-..
Immortality. ....-.--:6es sees: 63
Existence of hell
Present day miracles.........-.
Existence of angels..
Existence of the devil

i

wor om

a 22

>

a ati © 4 1m 6) Ce ae Se

>

oe 0.0/8) 4S 81 OS

COI’ OV

It will be noted that twice as many
freshmen voted for the existence of
God as for the existence of the Devil.
On classifying the results on ja denom
inational basis it was found that the
Catholics had the largest per cent of
absolute belief, the Lutherans were
second, Presbyterians third, Methodists fourth, Congregationalists fifth,
and Episcopal and Baptist sixth. All
but the Catholics were very sceptical
ae) about belief in angels, whether with or

a without wings the report does not state.

So Much For Religion.

for our religion; will our

So mick > This is a field

oat bear scrutiny a fie
ee, eeck it is nobody’s business to inquire
-,. into, but everybody’s business to talk
a. about. And Mddam Gossip always
K assumes that the youth of this genera“tion will be so unoriginal as to repeat
the popular sins of her palmy days.
a Of course it is impossible to compute
eh the full extent of student cussedness,
| but those who know will tell you that
the percentage of vice among us 1s not
alarming, and that the proportion .
virtue is higher than most people
imagine. There are too many people
about like Mahatma Gandhi who proclaimed to the world that he was
shocked at the nudity of London
gociety ladies without stopping to
‘reflect that those same ladies might
not have been edified by his own loin
. _ eloth and scrawny bare legs. ose
= who feel a divine call to disect student
uh iniquities should reflect upon this fact.
Any one who has been at college long
enough to
that sowing and reaping wild oats is
| not the chief student avocation. Stueae « dents spend much, if not most of their
time working, despite the popular
a. the contrary. They live
ei ‘Saner, more rational lives than any
) other single group in society. They
ve the oe life’ which the Greeks

w so well how to appreciate.

=<_*

tradition to

co

a
,; es My
a *
at
7)
i

-_ i

Table Il.

ie List of Moral Propositions,
| V ranged in order of acceptance.
ef

a

>"
i =
*

at Si
a as

Ar
ite ~ one’s duty to lead a clean
personal life.
~ 2. One should always have respect
-. for public property. ;

; mee One should hold to his moral
convictions in spite of the fact that
he may prove unpopular,

4, Itis wrong for a man and woman
to live together as husband and wife
to each other.

aes) |
ki tg
| ae

a

+
asl =

aa yy
r @

peace Sree together
vhen not marrie

 

DOUGLAS M. MACINTOSH, M. A.

h
Th
find his way about knows

  
 

 

 

 

5. An individual must sacrifice his
own wishes and desires for the benefit
of the group. .

It is wrong to have promiscuous
sexual relations.

7. It is morally wrong for women
to use alcohol.

An educated or | professional
person is morally obliged to serve others, even at his own inconvenience.

9. It is morally wrong for women
to smoke.

The results showed a decided tendency to believe the moral propositions
submitted. Seventy-six per cent
lieved that it was morally wrong for
women to use alcohol; and twenty-four
per cent that it was morally wrong for
women to smoke. Propositions four
and six received ninety-eight per cent
and ninety-six per cent votes respec
tively.
Table Il.

Table III consisted of a list of
popular beliefs. Those dealing with
luck were believed least; those dealing
with fortune telling .and forecasting
came next; and about one third believed in phrenology, and one half in
telepathy. It was observed that the
women students accepted the popular
superstitions much more readily than
the men. i

Such is the method of pidgeon-holing
the religious, moral, and: popular
liefs of freshmen at Ripon College.

Of course it is not to be suggested
that a dignified college like ours should
stoop to such commonplace methods
for finding out the betiefs of Dalhousie
freshmen. Nor is such a tabulation
of facts of much value in itself. What
would really prove illuminating would
be a comparison between such a questionnaire submitted at the beginning
and one at the end of the student’s
course; for the outlook of most students undergoes a metamorphosis while
at college,


Influence of Education.

The influence of a college education
works not so much to change the
structure of one’s beliefs as to change
the basis upon which that structure
rests. Education is largely a process
of substituting reason for faith. The
beginner must of necessity accept a
great many facts and theories on
the authority of his teachers. At
college he proceeds to verify as best
he can the beliefs which he has heretofore accepted on faith. And so he
becomes a heretic, or an agnostic, or a
radical, as the case may be. He finds
that he can hold no belief that will
shock his fellow students, that othes
people entertain heresies just as mad ar
his own. Amid this flux of changing
ideas his moral and spiritual convic
g,tions gradually begin to reorientate

themselves, and a new and rational
faith springs from the ruins of the old.
Some of his old beliefs, he finds, are
gone; he has discarded them along
with his milk teeth. But most of his
old beliefs he reincorporates in his new
faith, not on the authority of someoneelse this time, but because he has accepted them and made them his own.

er

M1. Forrest F. Musgrave, Arts ’29
and Nova Scotia Rhodes Scholar,
arrived home from Oxford University
recently, to spend the vacation with
his parents Mr. and Mis. H. V. Musgrave, Oxford St.

Professor F. C. Jones, interim lecturer of history during the term 192930, visited Professor C. Wamsley,
King’s College during the Christmas
Season.

 

     

FOO 22 T me.

We quess its true that
~ happiness —

prolongslife. Your
interest in things will
be awakened by f
taking your full share in
College\Sports and Athletics activities. Youcan

get aet all necessars supplies including the famous

SPALDING
SPORTS

EQUIPMENT
AT

    

_ HALIFAX, N. S.

LT >

a

weed ws

Co-A

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

DEAN SMITH

uthors of New Text Book —

PROFESSOR READ

 

A SELECTION: OF CASES ON EQUITY (Smith and Read)
will be used this year in the Law Schools of Dalhousie and of Osgoode

Hail.

This iextbook will contain notes relevant to ihe cases reprinted,

and footnotes referring to all the Canadian material available in the

field of Equity.
The Gazette joins with the rest

of the University in congratulaiing

Dean Smith and Professor Read on their achievement.

Irate Parent Protests

To The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:—

Now that the strain of the Xmas
exams is over, it is highly enlightening
to glance at the results as recently
made known. I would appreciate
your giving me valuable space in your
paper for my comment.

At first sight it is rather appalling
to notice the number of failures, or
“plucks’ as they are better known.
And it is still more astonishing to
figure out the percentages of failures
in the different classes. Now logically
there exists some reason for this condition: and in seeking to find this
cause we must first consider the
reasons for examinations.

According to the professors,  examinations are supposedly written to
find out just how much a student
knows. ‘‘Does he really know it or
is he just memorizing his notes-”
And in the effort to answer this question, the prof. resorts to ‘‘trick’’ questions. Now, considering this from
an impartial viewpoint can this be
considered fair to the student who
really does and knows his work, but
whose itinerary has not included a
course in ‘‘How to answer trick questions?”’ If a professor really desires
to test his wits against those of his
students, let there be special classes.

And can it be said that it is to the
credit of a professor to have a large
percentage of his class fail? Does that
really show his true capacities as a

 

 

 

In The Evening

 

For evening refreshment,
choose The Green Lantern.
All foods, drinks and Ice
Cream arethe best quality
and moderately priced.

The Green Lantern

 

teacher- The student, on the other
hand, gets discouraged by such methods; his outlook becomes rather tinged
with cynicism. He knows that, no
matter how much he knows, the odds
are against him. The ideal standard of
examinations has yet to be reached.
Of course, once in a while -we run
across an Casy examination—but they
are almost as scarce as the proverbial
hen’s teeth,

The ideal examination would comprise a comprehensive review of the
terms work; not easy—for then its
purpose would be defeated; not
tremely difficult and made up of small
details and trick questions—but a fair
intelligence quiz that requires a working knowledge of the subject in question.

Can it be that professors get a kick
out of splashing red ink all over a
candidates paper? Do they love to
show their power in this way? Or do
they earnestly desire to find out how
much their students know; and are
they interested in the progress of their
students and eager to impart their
knowledge? This might well be} discussed at a meeting of the faculty, and
the students.

CxX
: oe | . <
A PARENT.
SEMIS £6 SAE Ts SS ORE

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

 

 

—$—$—$—$—$—$—$—$—$—$—$—————_——_—__—_— Xwvrwrrr—————

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

Halifax Ladies Colle

  
 

Musi¢ in all Branches. Teacher's

Principal.

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

 
 

 

21 Spring Garden Road

 

ge
Conservatory of Music

  

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Household Science: Teacher’s
and Dietician’s Certificate.

Certificate. Graduation Diploma.

Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.
MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A.,

MR. HARRY DEAN,

Director of Conservatory

 

Sepia eS a

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments
and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

 

  
   
     

To Dalhousie Students

Modern Equipment,

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

eae
NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

with Engineering Diploma

Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.
Write °r call for Calendar or

advice,
- H. SEXTON, Pres.

 
 

 

 

  

To the Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette. |

Dear Sir:—

There is a matter of considerable
significance which | should like to bring
to the attention of the Students’ Council and the Undergraduate body, with
the hope that some suitable action
can be taken in regard to it. I refer
to the indiscriminate sale, and the
even more indiscriminate wearing of
coat-sweaters bearing the familiar gold
and black colours of our University.

As everyone knows, these particular
articles are made so cheaply that they
can be sold at a very low cost. Consequently, it is comparatively easy
for any Tom, Dick or Harry to procure
one without reducing his bankroll
to any appreciable extent. Walk along
almost any street in Halifax, and you
will see ice-men, grocery-men, breadmen, newsboys, garbage-collectors, yes,
and even street-cleaners, all decked
out with Dalhousie sweaters in various
degrees of decomposition. Look out
of the train window as you travel
through the province, and you will find
lumber-men, farmers, baggage-men,
tramps, yes, and even a few down-atthe-heel bums, sporting eccentric variations of the gold and black theme.
Now, of course, this may be perfectly
all right. We live in a democratic
country, etc., etc, Nevertheless, to

   
 
 

Ce, eo
1 if Spy Vixen
ee, Biot Mii 0S

  

 

B

The Student Forum

A Column devoted to Comment and Controversy

 

Winchest

CIGARETTES

Page Threa

 

   

my mind, such a ubiquituous distribution of sweaters which many of we

f}undergraduates also wear, and which

are definitely associated with our
University in the minds of the genera
public, is a condition to be deplored
Such is certainly not the case at other
colleges. Imagine some ditch-digging
Dago attired in an Oxford blazer, or
a McGill sweater! It simply couldn’t
be done! Nor should it be done in
the case of our own colours, which are as
fine, and as worthy of respect as any
in the world.

We would urge, then, that the
Students’ Council consider this matter.
[It must be amenable to a solution. A
distinctive model of sweater could be
set aside exclusively for Dalhousie
students, and could be sold under the
auspices of the Council, say, at the

University Store. In this way, a
uniform type would be reserved for
our undergraduate body. Or, some
other proposal could be considered,

The important thing as I see it, ds to
get a consideration of the question
by the authoritative representatives
of the students.

Thanking you, Mr. Editor, for this
valuable space, I am,

Yours truly,

FASTIDIOUS.

 

   

  

er

lended Right!

 

 

Leather Goods

Trunks
Bags and Luggage of

Portfolios,

all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

YELLOW CAE

LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours

Two travel for same as one.

More than two, 20 cents extra.

Covers up to six.

 

 

 

, i |

 

 

 

BIRK

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. £

| tee

 
  
   

1 rns
ap gm

ad “¢ Ie a3 Station Freddy McLellan broadcasting.
— note of the Shirreff Hall telephone, dozen years ago.

 

  
 

* rA\ ty

a)

re

=

 

. i
mie ie a ’
TL hy
5 jae

E server |A Tribute to the
Piet | | Movies

   
   
   
   
 
  

7

 

bret unior’” Pattillo has returned from| In the brochure on “Crime and the
igewater with a brand new brief| Motion Picture,” written by that

e, straight out of Santa’s pack. eminent authority, Dr. Carseton Simon,

aes e Case is in brown leather and bears] there is to be found much that should
' the imscription “A. S. P. Jr.”
wants it understood that while he’s| motion picture industry.

become a permanent exhibit for the
Dr. Simon
nior to Pa he’s still Mr. Pattillo to]as a student of conditions which proreff Hall. duce the criminal and as an expert
in his experience with the criminal, as
‘ a pathological subject gained an inen you hear the musical| ternational reputation more than a
! ¢ His practical knowit will be exactly 11 o’clock, Dalhousie | |edge is extensive and his information
Courting Time. When Marg Sadler] was secured at first hand, His address
answers the phone it will be exactly|to the International Association of
10 minutes later. Chiefs of Police has been privately

. = SotSaainnIIAC IE nal hie hea ceneinsatineateemnniahabhainnietinaateabeh Adboaimdnaaditadteiandaneatamndien dene cdl nalts aihteeenee meee ak

 

re OT . . ot => oma —

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

1. Dal. Hockey

leam

FROM OUR |
CONTEMPORARIES

The Hockey Team will have only
four practices before the first game
which is scheduled for Tues., Jan. 12.
It is important therefore that everyone
going out for the team should attend
all of the practices.

Practices will be held on

Thurs., Jan. 7, 12a.m.tol p.m.

Fri., Jan. 8,1 p.m.to2 p.m.

Also practices on Sat. and Mon.,
Jan. 9 and 11th.

The league will start when Dalhousie plays Tech on Tues., Jan, 12
at 7 p. m. Right after this game
King’s will play St. Mary’s. There
will be two games every Tues for the

Sheep and Penguins.

Thunder.

 

Sheep and Penguins.

Br

wey fe lp :
“pis

students.

y)

The sidewalks of Waegwoltic Ave
ue are showing the results of the
L| of crime.

heavy holiday traffic. “‘How did
keep in condition during vacation?”

- replied Gordon Cooper to the Gazette

reporter, ‘‘Why by walking, from
Nb. 185 Coburg Road to No. 9 Waegwoltic Avenue and back six times
every day. Miss Crandall will verify

_ my statement.”

« OS
Here’s one for Ripley. During two
and a half years of tramping about the
Campus, Bill Miller of Chester has only
entered the MacDonald Library to
get his weekly Gazette. He has never
taken a book from the reading room
-—and he’s not the only one.

published because of its excclence as
a permanent record of high opinion
on the best methods in the prevention

Influence Far Reaching.

Among the concmsions reached by
Dr. Simon is this: ‘‘The influence of
the screen is so obvious and far-reaching that it has become genera,ly recognized as a great morali force, training the minds of millions of young and
old to the great lessons of life, that
crime doesn't pay, that right will
prevail, that wrong will be righted,
that destiny ultimately deals out
justice.”’

In the appraisal also he says: ‘‘The
American public admires courage. Fear

George Cohen (in Zoology Lab)—|lessness is the halo with which it en
“I’m working myself to the bone in
this class.”’

Prof. Jones—‘‘You’ve a long way

to go yet, Mr. Cohen.”

This is an old story, but certain

dows its heroes. Upon the highest
peak it places fair play. Everyone
hates a coward and instinctively resents it when unfair, stealthy methods
succeed. That is why no audience will
accept a nicture where the crook is

medical students have considered play-| victorious or where honesty does not
ing a similar trick upon a prominent| ultimately triumph.

- member of their faculty.

“Pictures that expose injustice, cor
One Dalhousie student attended |rect wrongs and protect the weak are
that much abused class, Latin I, for} received with satisfaction, and strange
the record time of six years, and at the| to say, not only by law-abiding citizens,
end of that period, he found his name | put others as well.

on the pass list.

‘pluck that—darn (-) you.”

Whereupon he
bought a chicken, all ready for the pan,
went up to the professor’s house and
threw the fowl through the window
accompanied by a brief note—‘‘Now

Make For Happiness.

“Pictures that depict courage and
moral strength in the ‘fight against
lawlessness are always thrilling. Pscchologicalty analyzed, this is very

_ Two of our Freshmen, known to|readily understood. The Western cr
intimates as “Hop” and “‘Jug’’ grad-| the crook picture employs, asa basis of

uates of R. C.

S. and K. C. S, respec-| interest, emotional suspense of expec
tively, were trying to settle once and|tancy that leaves the spectator in

for all just which school had produced} doubt as to the outcome.
the greater number of prominent men.

When the
hero wins in spite of trials and tribula
The contest kept pretty even fort some|tions against the machinations and

five minutes, until

the R. C. S. man schemes of the wily villiar, there comes

challenged the other with ‘“Ward|that relief, a relaxation that always

_ Pitfield, the financier.”

follows in the wake of danger avoided,

_“Humph—Gordon Cooper, Rhodes|fear dispelled. Everyone wishes to see

 

i

-Atiee’s article, “‘Are Women Sheep.

One Dalhousie co-ed offers to send
a free copy of the current issue of the|a barrier twixt the story and audience.
“Canadian Home Journal” to the
; member of the editorial staff who] literature have beenstimulated. Seeds
wrote a favorable criticism of Dr.
| planted by the cinema ir unsuspected

> Scholar,’’ retorted the loyal supporter} wrong righted, to have honesty win
of Kings.

over crookedness. Tnis is instinctive.
When a p.cture does not end in this
way, it 1s unsatisfactory and creates

“All branches of science, art. and

of. praiseworthy endeavour have been

The Magazine contains counter-attacks | places, and while it has been entertain
well known Canadian writer.

by Judge Emily Murphy and by a|ing, the motion picture has harbored
““No,|those attributes that make for happi
women are not sheep, but aren’t men|ness and contentment to the end that

penguins.”’

Fair Criticism
Halifax, N.

 

 

Oe

January 6, 1932.

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:

Out of curiosity may I ask why the

number of students requested to leave
the University as a result of the Christmas Examinations is greater this year
than ever before- What if any is the
reason. If this condition continues
in future years what will be the result?
It is evident that the total number of
students attending the University will
gradually decrease. Dalhousie has the
equipment, facilities and staff sufficient
to cater to the educational needs of
anywhere between five hundred and
one thousand students. It is possible
to imagine the financial loss that will
result in a few years time unless some
of the financial supporters contribute
a little more generously.

Why have some of the 2nd, 3rd and
4th Year students been requested to
leave the College? Some of these students have unaccountably failed through no lack of effort on their part. It

oes seem a little beyond the point to
ask these young men and women who
have struggled to pay their tuition
fees and who have done their best to
leave College without any refund or
settlement on their payment of fees.
It is inconceivable that these students
should have to give up their chance of
making good during the second term.
In business, if a man buys two pairs
of shoes and then returns one pair
unused he most certainly will get a
-refund.. These students have paid for
the whole year. They have had the
benefit of three months tuition and
that is the end, Is there no refund?

What are these students who have
been asked to ieave going to do? Even
pick and shovel jobs are scarce these

days. It is evident that whoever is
responsible for this raising of the standard has had no experience or trouble
_ in finding a position.
An explanation is obviously necessary to clear the minds of some of the
I beg of you Mr. Editor to
forgive me for the waste of space but I

do believe that in all fairness an expla
nation would help. I sincerely hope
that the responsible authority will
endeavour to explain the reason for this

hi. eh Yours truly,

_ ASYMPATHIZER,

mts,

a sane, moral life may be the toctprints on the sands of time, bequeathed
to our posterity.”

This tribute trom a man who views
pictures in the light of thei reaction
on the public is worth the attention
of all who sniff and sneer at the screen.

 

Pine Hill Notes

Now that the Xmas holidays are
over the boys are clamoring for a
couple of weeks in which to recuperate.
It was Theodore Cox, we believe, who
remarked that they might just as well
postpone classes for awhile for nobody
works during the first week or so anyway. “Herbie” Stewart would no
doubt logically reply that; “initium
faciendum est,” .

The usual post-Xmas_ superfluity
of neckties is quite apparent as the
Pine Hillers flock back to the Reside-ce.
Our genial storekeeper would do well
to lay in a stock of smoked glasses.
A goodly number of the boys have
been tactful enough to provide themselves with green cravats for the first
Philosophy I Class, Ah! if we had
only known these things.

—————_- —--—

During the vacation our marooned
brethren from Newfoundland added
to Pine Hill’s athletic activities that
strenuous game called “ping pong.”’
{ts popularity is assured by the fact
that Tommy House left the billiard
room for twenty minutes to show the
boys that his abilities were not all
expended in wielding the cue.

 

 

The
Millionaire’s Ball

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

JANUARY 29th

The Dance of the Year

 

Dr. Benge Atlee’s article ‘‘Are Wo-| next six weeks, these same four teams

men Sheep?”
ournal for November receives some

interesting answers in the current issue| wil]
of that magazine. Judge Emily F.| games for Dalhousie students.

in Canadian Home| competing among themselves.

It is not yet certain whether there
be skating sessions after the
How
Murphy replies with “Yes, Women|ever, notice will be given beforeare not Sheep,’’ and Martha Banning] hand.

Thomas of Victoria Beach, Neva Scotia
asks, ‘‘But aren’t Men Penguins?”
Among other things, Dr, Atlee accused
the ladies of being sheep in following
the fashions of the dress moguls of
Paris. The sting of his argument is
quite apparent in the replies to his
article. Miss Thomes treats the matter in a light vein and her answer is
not so much a defense as an attach?
She says, “‘Is there anything more
depressing than a bowler hat? More
dismal than masses of
bosoms, stiff ties, black evening clothes,
the endless formal procession of Perguins at a party? Sometimes I could
scream for a dashing red sash, satin
knee breeches, anything to lift the
stifling deadly pall of black. They’re
all alike, all scared of being conspicuous.” Judge Murphy looks forward
to that golden age of femininity when
the most vital verse in the Bible is
obe yed—Jehovah’s unqualified command to Abraham, ‘‘Whatsoever Sarah
saith unto Thee, do it."’ She is of the
opinion that Atlee 1s the pen name of
a male physician in a Canadian Medical
College, hence she refers to him as
Dr. X. throughout her article in
deference to his authoritative opinions

 

as well as to his anonymity.’’ Are
women sheep?
Thunder.

That fearless crusader, Thunder

which presents the ‘‘naked truth” to
the workers of Canada has a variety
of aims, policies, beliefs that must be
bewildering to any other than _ its
Irish editor Pat Sullivan. The late
issue gives a few of the doctrines cf
The People’s Party. It is for, birth
control, race-toleration, vegetarianism,
The Brotherhood ef Man, Tim Buck,
Communist candidate for Controller
in Toronto. Itis against, Big Business,
Captialism, gambling, church charities, community chests, the commercialized christian church, Roman Catholic and Protestant clergy, liquor stores,
bootleggers, vivisection, vaccination,
white bread, polished rice, aspirin, and
aluminum utensils. The editor has
grave doubts about the reality of sin,
the idea ef a life after death; he does
not agree with Communists. He assures a young lady correspondent that
he hates nobody and believes that
God is Love. And you are invited to
subscribe with the assurance that
Pat Sullivan is ‘“‘The most fearless
champion of the underdog that the
American continent has ever known.”
Though Thunder may not please the
fastidious ‘‘sofa snake’’ with its boisterous.and rough style, it has a vitality
and purpose that few of our Canadian
weeklies or dailies can ever hope to
achieve.

 

GARRICK

NOW PLAYING
TRE GARRICK PLAYERS

“THE BILL OF
DIVORCEMENT”

Commencing Thursday

SIR JOHN
MARTIN HARVEY

“THE KINGS
MESSENGER”

 

    
  
  
 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
| IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

Boilermakers to

Hold Ball

The Engineering Society wishes to
declare that the eleventh annual
Boilermaker’s Ball to be staged on
January 14th will not only reach an

 

wnite shirt | unusually high standard, but is destined

to eclipse al! former functions of the
enterprising embryo engineers. The
Committee in charge of the dance,
consisting of Messrs. Ken Mahen,
Gordon Elkin and Frank Goudge have
been hard at work for the past few
weeks making extensive preparations
and many peasant surprises are in
store for those who attend.

As everyone knows, the Ball is
being held at the Nova Scotian Hotel
according to the annual custom. The
Hagarty eight piece orchestra will
provide the necessary music and will
feature many of the latest hits. During the intermission following the
supper-dance and during the waltzes,
the orchestra will be accompanied by
Mr. H. D. Hebb at the organ. Dancing will continue from 9.00 p. m. till
4.00 a. m.

Tickets are now on sale, and may be
obtained from any member of the
Committee in charge, from the University store, or from one of the following: Sandy Scott, Charley Lorway, Lou
Christie, Jim Taylor or Coolie Harris.

General Basketball Practice

St. Mary’s Gymnasium
Wed. 4.00 p. m. Sat.3.30p. m.

EVERYBODY OUT

 

Special

STUDENT SERVICE

DRY CLEANING
PRESSING
REPAIRING

—We call for and deliver —

Cousins, Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 Robie St. 381 Barrington St.
Telephone Lorne 2323

 

 

 
   
 

  

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

    

    

    

    

Just arrived a new stock

ot

Dal. Stationary

   
   
   
  

  

   
  
 

Ask to see our new line of

BOXED PAPER

and

ENVELOPES,
Selling for 50c.

  
   

  
       
     

 

Gymnasium —
Notes

Dal. Periods at the St. Mary’s

Gymnasium and Bowling Alleys.Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Satur
day afternoons 2 until 6 p. m.
Monday and Wednesday evenings
7 until 11 p. m.

Interfaculty Sport.
Interfaculty Manageis of Softball,
Basketball, Hockey, Bowling, Badminton, etc., are requested to get in
touch wth the Interfaculty Sports
Manager, Coll Stewart, or the
Physical Director, as soon as possible

Dalhousie Boxing Team. =
Students wish ng to try-cut for the
Dal. Intercolleg.ate Boxing Team,
should commence training immediate
ly, as the University and
collegiate Champiorships will
held during the month ct March.
The boxing and wrestling periods
are Monday and Wednesday evenings at 7.30 p. m. and Saturday
afternoon at 2.30 p, m.

Interbe

Badminton, Handball, Volleyball,
etc.

The gym floor is available for badminton, handball, volleyball, etc., on
Monday, Wednesday and Friday afternoons, 2.30 to 4.30.

Basketball (league for beginners).

This beginners League is for the
student who has never had the opportunity of playing basketball before
coming to Dalhousie.

Students wishing instruction in the
fundamentals of the game, are requested to get in touch with the
Physical Director, for full information.

Teacher’s TraininCg lass.

The Teacher’s Training Class will
be continued on Tuesday and Thursdays at 2 p. m. in the Murray Homestead and Saturday morning 10 a. m.
until 1 p. m. at the St. Mary’s Gymnasium, Argyle St. ; r

 

 

   

ROM THE

WINNERS FRoM 1

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you,

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

   

  
     
         
      
      

January 7th, 1982

 

DONALD MacRAE

Don MacRae, prominent Dalhousie athlete and president of
the D. A. A. C. received a recent
invitation from the Canadian Amateur Rugby Football Association
to join an all-Canuck team which
is at present en route to Japan to
take part in exhibition games.
Due to the pressure of his medical
studies, Don was forced to waive
the opportunity. The all-Canadian team includes stars from
every province.

Dalhousie Track Team.

Just a reminder to the Dalhousie
track and field athletes, that this is
the time to improve your form and
get into condition for the Intercollegiate
Track and Field Meet, to be held next
spring.

CASINO

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
January 7-8-9

BUSTER KEATON

naa Nu

“Sidewalks of
New York”

—with—
ANITA PAGE
CLIFF EDWARDS

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
January 11-12-13

“Heaven on Earth”

Featuring

LEW AYRES

 

 

 

     
 
  
  
   
   

 

SUPPER

9 to 12

DANCE

Pp. m,.

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
HARRY COCHRANE’S ORCHESTRA

Cover Charge $1.00

Service A la Carte

 

The Lord Nelson Hotel

 

herent ee

  
   
  

   

 

EATON’S Main Floor

 

 

 

Mens’ and Young Men’s

éaionia Blue Suits

A Leading Value Anywhere At

$25,00

EATONIA value proves
that being well dressed is not
a matter of cost! These suits,
in snappy breasted
models for men and young
men, tailored from an all wool
botany serge,

single

are sure to
please the most particular
dressers at a comparatively
small outlay. See this popular EATON line on idisplay
in our Men’s Wear Depart
ment On your next visit to
the store!

 
