s

he
a,
i

t

y

‘

¢

|

i

r
‘

:

a a ee ae
hig 7 a .
te ' a,
1 oy C
i '

   

i
a.
"
ey
A

G

eS
Bw

a
ign

  
  
   
    
    
         
  

a bi

 

te

s ymphony Orchestra and
Choral Society Lend
: Support.

With the Dalhousie Symphony Orchestra and Choral Society under
direction of Mr. Harry Dean, and an
excellent cast in a one-act adaption
from Barrie, the Glee Club opened the
new Gymnasium last night and spon‘sored one of the finest shows in Dal
_housie history. This opening was the
Beet occasion of the President’s first speak~~ ing to the student body as a whole;
-___—‘his remarks were congratulatory to the
students and the Board of Governors

o~

a oak

ee. om the erection of the new building.
ae President Stanley quoted from a report
Bar's of the new Student Health Service to
BP, urge Dalhousians to take full advan tage
tee 2 of the new physical opportunities
ae available to them. Following on the

et President’s remarks, Mr. Doug. Gibbon
welcomed the audience on behalf of
ihe the Glee Club and expressed gratitude

_ Mr. Harry Dean opened the program

pos to the Governors, to Mr, Harry Dean
ee _ and several members of the Halifax
Ri Philharmonic who were assisting in the
eh program,

x

te 4, of the combined Symphony Orchestra

iene and Choral Club with ‘“‘O Canada,”
a and there followed a splendid presenta
ae. tion of musical offerings by Dalhousie

ota”: talent:

| Poet and Peasant Overature..Von

 

i . Suppe
Sey! Green Cathedral (Chorus)
myet - War March of the Priests. eae
oa ; ohn
ag Carmen—Selections........ Bizet
Be March Militaire............ Schubert
____ Fantasia—Il Trovatore.....:.. Verdi
" fous 4 This rt of the program was someee thi that has not been heard on

es ‘Daikousie Campus for some time
_ Mr, Dean and the members of the

are to be congratulated for their enthusiasm and the excellent results of
their work. Selections from Bizet’s

Carmen and the March Militaire of

Schubert were very well done. The

fe, .. Choral part in Fantasia—J// Trovatore
' Was excellent, the women’s voices
and the bass section of the male chorus
showing up beautifully.

7) wae Aiitsuao Kitazawa pleased the
audience with a vocal solo, ‘‘Two
Grenadiers.’’ His pleasant voice car
tied well through the entire audience;

he was brought again ,to the front of
the stage with applause and gave as an
encore, Cadman’s At Dawning. Mr

Howe Jones was Mr. Kitazawa’'s

e accompanist. The orchestra has twen
i ty-six pieces—fourteen violins, eleven

a other instruments and piano. The

. Piano accompaniment by Mr. W. A.

aha to the Choral work was very
fine.
~The play, a one-act adaption from
J. M. Barrie’s ‘‘Halr Hcur,”’ was under
io direction of Mr. J. P. Connolly. Great
response was given by the audience to
this production; Miss Ruth Macauley
starred the performance with her
personal grace and her outspoken dialogue, hile the voices of the other
actors were indistinct at the back of

, the auditorium, both Miss Macauley’s

and Mr. Mackenzie’s were well heard.

“ Miss Dorothy Gray was true Beryl

Mercer in her part as Susie, the maid.
Miss Ruth Crandall, who had appeared
earlier in the evening in the chcru
played Mrs. Redding in an admirable
manner. Some of the boys claim that
Douglas Murray’s responses to Lady

(continued on page 2.)

Sa

ae

 

Mt.

Presents Key

asl

ae nae
Ty oe

hony Orchestra and Chorai Club

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 2nd, 1982.

S : Glee Club Presents First
Show in New Gym.

 

 

Presents Glee Club Show

 

DCUGLAS GIBBON

who welcomed the audience Tuesday
on behalf of Glee Club, and expressed
gratitude for new gym.

 

——

Women’s Place

In The Home

Prof. Dod’s Discusses Live
Issue.

In these troublous times of wars
and rumours of wars, unbalanced
budgets, and free wheeling, it is vitally
necessary that one get back to first
principles. Allthings have a beginning,
even the joke about the Mexican and
the skunk, and as to ends; well, as
Caesar Augustus groaned after two
agonizing hours of Clark Gable and
Joan Crawford ‘‘the end is not yet.’
However, it would be inconceivable to
conceive of a question where an exhaustive understanding of first principles could conceivably be of more importance than that question which vexes
the master minds of both hemispheres
sends savants to splitting infinitives
in the amphitheatre of Claudius, and
wins space in the august columns of the
Dalhousie Gazette. We refer to the
Quantum Theory, or, as more popularly
known—lIs Co-education Doomed
But let us then, as N. B. above, get
back to first principles. To grasp
fully the significance, scope, and possibilities of co-education some historical
retrospect is necessary. Where did
co-education arise, and why- Dr.
Breasted of the Semetic Languages
Department of the University of Chicago claims quite dogmatically in his
work Three Weeks by Elinor Glyn that
co-education undoubtedly existed among
the Lower Sumerians. As evidence he
triumphantly points to some baked
mud dance programs found in his excavations, as well as to the laws against
necking in the Code of Hammurabi.
But his evidence is unreliable since our
antiquarians have decided that the
documents in question are of no later
date than that celebrated learned
journal College Life. It is our contention that co-education, as such and
such, is of comparitively recent origin,
Of course, there are some sundry examples in the ancient world, but the
system is not found in full flower until
well into modern times. Passing
mention might well be made of Cleopatra’s School For Scandal where
Marc Antony was Dean of Women,

Co-education, in its purest form, like
Liberty and Shredded Wheat, is a
product of the American continent.
Records of the prevalence of the system
become increasingly frequent after
1492, and perhaps one of the earliest
references is found in Mark Twain’s
Cuban Love Song. Here are depicted
stout Cortez—a rubicund bond salesman, class '04—and his Frat. brothers
gazing around with wild surmiess,
What: are they wild about-— Neilson
and Thorndyke prove conclusively in
their facts About Shakespeare that
Cortez and his crowd were sore about.
not getting a bid to the Delta Gamma
Yet such evidence would be sketchy
were it not reinforced by something
more solid, and a striking (quite) proof
of our contention is found in the files
of the Varsity Blak of the University
of Gitchee Gumee. Here is related
the touching story of ‘‘Peg"’ Pocahontas
saving a Freshman, John A. B. Smith

(Continued om page 2°

—_—$——— LT

 

  

Con

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

A SUPPLEMENT OF SENSE AND NONSENSE

  
 
  
 

 
 

No. 16

 

Sorority Dance |Gymnasium Notes| Student Council Election Day

The initial dance of the Alpha Eta
Chapter of Alpha Gamma Delta was
held in the tea room of the Nova
Scotian on Thursday evening, Feb.
25, 1982. Miss Haggarty’s orchestra
supplied the music. Supper was served
about 11.30 p.m. The eleventh dance
was featured by a treasure hunt over
the first two floors of the Nova Scotian
At the conclusion of the hunt each
guest received a brass paper knife
with the Alpha Gamma Delta crest on
it.

The members of Kappa Kappa
Sigma who were not initiated into
Alpha Gamma Delta were also present.

The following people were at the
dance :—

Misses Mary Lee McCoubrey, Barbara Barnhill, Kay Moxon, Jean
Maclean, Doreen Harper, Marie MacMillan, Dorothy Redmond, Mary Currie,f Marion Morton, Laura Marshall,
Joan Sweeney, Helen Williams, Beverley Chipman, Isabel Chipman, Sheila
McManus, Audrey Ryan, Eirene Walk
er, Jean DeMone, Ethel Jackson™
Mrs: P. Hebb, Evelyn Holloway,
Jean{ Morrison.

Messrs. Ross Morrison, Lou Christie,
Horace Mitchell, Charlie Harries, Buff
Dyer, Don Sinclair, lan MacKay
Paul Stehelin, Peter Hebb, Douglas
Gibbon, Jack Millar, Peter Creighton,
Murray Rankin, Curry Young, Skit
Oldfield, Douglas Murray, Jack MacMillan, Roy Tidman, Jock Kent,
Tom Sullivan, John Somers, Norman
Stanbury.

(Continued on page 2.)

Concerning

 

BY DR. ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN.

 

West Gate spans the road into
Canterbury from London. It was
built in 1380, that is the historical fact;
consequently, Chaucer and his fellow
pilgrims—wel nine and twenty in a
companye—must have entered by this
very archway. West Gate is heavily
medieval, built for defence; its face
still shows where the draw-bridge
chains worked; there are machicolations
arrow-slits and loop-holes to tell of
by-gone days. A winding-stair in the
right hand tower enables the traveller
to mount to the battlements. It is
well rewarded by the view from the
top.

Cantextaey lies in a hollow within a
ring of hills. Some one says that all
the English cathedrals but two are
builtin valleys. To the west is Harbledown, that is, ‘hobble-down’, Hill.
From its top the footsore pilgrims
caught their first glimpse of the famous
shrine of St. Thomas the Martyr.
Ay bow-shot from West Gate is the old
church of St. Dunstan. Here Henry
Il disrobed and took off his shoes
before entering the city in penance for
causing the murder of the archbishop.
In-a shop in Mercery Lane I bought
a pamphlet on ‘‘Becket’s Bones,”
ornamented by the picture of a ghastly
broken skull. The learned author
makes out Becket to have been a giant
of six feet, two, ifi—‘much virtue in an
If’—the skeleton he studied is really
Becket’s. Another thing one learns
on the spot is that Becket’s fame was
European. Not only fromevery shire’s
end in England, but from the remotest
parts of Europe pilgrims flocked in
their thousands to do reverence to the
‘holy, blisful martyr.” In fact,it may
be said that Becket made Canterbury.

I visited St. Dunstan’s for the sake
of Margaret Roper,

‘Who clapsed in her last trance

Her murdered’father’s head.”

The murdered father was Sir Thomas
More, the foremost Englishman of his
time, who had the misfortune to differ
with Henry VIII, Defensor Fidei, on
a point of Theology. His head was
exposed on a pole on London Bridge,
and his devoted daughter bribed a man
to drop it into a boat which passed
underneath. It is buried in a vault
under St. Dunstan's in a leaden
casket. The casket is never shown to
visitors, but a framed photograph of it
is hung on a pillar near the Ropers’
Chapel. The Ropers were a distinguished Canterbury family and their
mansion stood just across the way from
the church. The old Tudor gateway is
still one of the sights of the city. Sir
Thomas More is not buried here,
according to the chief local historian,
Dr. Charles Cotton, but in Chelsea
parish church, along with Margaret and
her husband. I made a sketch of the
photograph which shows the shape of a
skull with large eye-sockets.

Still nearer West Gate is St. Dunstan’s House known locally as the
House of Agnes, because Dickens had
it in mind, when he described the
Wickfield dwelling. Such is the tale
The house “bulges on’’ the street, as
Dickens says; but so does many another
Canterbury house. The door is paint
ed green, and an eminent dentist lives} Prussian-looking

within.

The view from the battlements to the
eastward is even more notable. You
look down on the roofs of Canterbury,
the uniform rows of houses, the bristling chimney-pots,and, dominating al\

Individual Bowling Champion:
L. Smofsky, 106, 117, 119, 111, 115

111. Total 679.
Eric Murray, 110, 110, 107, 111, 120,
101. Total 659.

Don MacRae, 124, 112, 111, 101, 101
101. Total 650.

L. Smofsky wins the silver cup
donated by the physical department
for 1932.

The new floor cannot be used in the
Gym until next week due to soft walls

om

Badminton can be played from today on.

Mixed badminton on every Sat.
aft., 2.15-6 p. m. Tennis costumes
must be worn—white flannels or duck
and white sneakers. Birds only can
be obtained at the Gym.

Boxing. The Boxing team _ will
work out daily from now on in the
Small Gym in preparation for Intercollegiate Championship to be held at
St. F. X. on Mar. 18.

Fencing class will commence immediately. All interested get in touch
with Mr. Stirling.

Canterbury

Bell Harry, the great square tower of
the cathedral.

Canterbury is still, one may say,
Chaucer’s town. The narrow winding
streets and still narrower lanes are
unchanged since the Father of English
poetry rode along them. True, most
of the old houses are merely Tudor, but
the low ceilings, the projecting upper
storeys, the leaded windows, the odd
little dormiers, suggest the fourteenth
century. The stone ‘parsonage’ of St.
Alphege, and ‘‘meisters Omer’’ in the
Precincts are thoroughly medieval,
though put to modern uses. In Burgate Street, and again, in Palace Street,
I noticed wooden devils supporting
beams. They are grinning and holding
their knees, or supporting shields or
clasping exaggerated, swollen breasts.

The Precincts are a city within a
city. They include the vast cathedral,
the grounds about it, the archbishop’s
palace, and the houses of the other
clergy. Admission is through two
gates, which are locked at ten o’clock
at night. A watchman makes his
rounds with a lantern, proclaiming
‘Past ten o’clock, and a starry night,
and similar meteorological observations.
All doors that open on the Precincts
are also locked, so that nobody can
get in from the outside. The old walls
and bastions which defended this inner
religious citadel to the eastward are
patched here and there with modern
brick and concrete; but they stand up
stout and strong. ‘Their aspect must
have daunted any foe in the brave days
of old. One of the bastions has been
turned into a memorial of Kentish
valor. The rude stone walls have been
untouched, but, in the narrow circular
room a plain altar of stone has been
erected, on the top of which is carven
the semblance of a long, two handed
glaive. The few windows have been
filled with stained glass. On the wall
are the words, “A place where prayer
is wont to be made.’ Outside is the
‘garth,’ a large square walled yard,
entered by an ancient arched doorway.
In the centre is a tall slimcross. A\ltogether, it forms one of the most touching and significant monuments to the
heroic dead that I have seen in England.
I believe it would have moved the heart
of the pious patriot who wrote ‘Vanguard of liberty, ye men of Kent.”

By the way, I learned from the old
caretaker in West Gate the difference
between ‘a Kentish man” and ‘‘a
man of Kent.’’ Those born east of the
Medway are men of Kent, the old rock;
those born west of the Medway are
only Kentish men. The care taker’s
faded medal ribbons proclaimed him
to be an old soldier. I found that he
had served in the Duke of Cornwall’s
Light Infantry. He went out with his
regiment to Burmah in 1885, and came
back wit h it from South Africa in 1906.
Only four of the original unit did so.
I asked him if he was a Kentish man.
He laughed, and said, ‘‘No, a man of
Kent.”

Modern Canterbury is full of good
shops and women pushing prams.
The policemen wear a _ well-fitting,
long-skirted, blue coat with two rows
of six silver buttons, also a decidedly
spiked helmet.
There is plenty of traffic to regulate in
their efficient English way. The crossbars of the goals in the Canterbury
Rugby grounds are painted yellow and
black.

ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN.

 
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
    
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  

chapter in the Invasion of Bedbug

carried the war into enemy territory
with terrific slaughter.

throated roar of the Company Sergeant
Major’s voice and Q. M, S. Corkum’s
ane machine gun, Dal’s contingent of
C. Q. T. C. sprang to arms (pas des
femmes) and slipped slitheringly into
a slippery salient.
(Mother) to exterminate or be extereonated, commander Stuart addressed
1is
housie,”’ he said, ‘‘the fate of nations
rest upon your shoulders; the world,
since Eve, has suffered from a small
but very powerful enemy; ‘tis for you
to save the world,
bug land!”

over the top, through Old Maids Land
and charged ferociously into the ranks
of the enemy.
coiled.
out of the skies swooped the Dal
Flying Club under Wing Commander
Re Oh
chattering
deadly bullets of ‘‘Flit’’, the enemy
turned and fled, and a gory battle it
was!
lay still—piled in countless heaps for
that elanvital (page Prof. Page) had
departed. Mute testimony indeed, were
they to that

Fraser (Bugshooter 2458).
casualty
suffered terribly when the bedbugs
(10,000 in number) secured a foothold
on his pedal extremities.
dying breaths, he whispered—‘
a war of extermination, and | too must
die.
ing gum to Goldberg.
patria meum supremum diem obeam.”

courier ran up and shouted—‘‘Enemy
approaching
“Blow
Stuart.
sounded the retreat and incidentally
blew

capital of Bedbug Land.

ert can the scornful critics point the

Will Be March 17th.

1 All Nominations Must Be
In Not Later than
March 12th.

 

 

    
   
   

Opens Gym To Students

All nominations of representatives
to be voted on in the coming Students
Council elections must be handed to
the Secretary-Treasurer of the Council
of the Students on or before Saturday,
March 12th. Nominations of representatives shall be made by the various
faculties and classes as provided in
the following Article 4, clauses 2 and 3
of the Constitution:

“The representatives from the
Faculty of Arts & Science shall be
elected by the students in Arts &
Science, those from the Faculty of
Law by the ‘‘Law Students Society,"’ those from the Faculty of
Medicine by the “‘Students’ Medical Society’’ and those from the
Faculty of Dentistry by the ‘‘Dental Society’”’...:**The number of
representatives shall be twelve
and shall be divided among the
faculties in proportion to their
numbers as follows: Arts & Science
8; Medicine 2; Dentistry 1; Law L”’

‘The representation in Arts &
Science shall be distributed as
follows: Commerce 1; Engineering 1; Senior Arts & Science 2 (of
whom one must be a girl); Junior
Arts & Science 2 (of whom one
must be a girl); Sophomore Arts &
Science 1; and one man elected
from the Graduating Class of the
preceding year in the Faculty of
Arts & Science who is again registered in the University and who
shall hold office as Freshman Representative,”’

‘‘Nominations of representatives
ye ere en's must be at least one and
one half times as great as the number of representatives to be elect
ed.’

ELECTION DAY will be Thursday,
March 17th, 1932 and it is essential
that there be no delay in the above
mentioned arrangements.

Sgd. MURRAY M. RANKIN

Secretary-T reasurer

 

PRESIDENT STANLEY

_ Who spoke to entire Student Body
lor first time Tuesday Night at Gym.
opening.

Bloody Battle In
Bug Land

By G. Howie Shoots, Gazette
Co-respondent.

 

BEDBUG LAND, March 1,—Ancther

Land has been written; for today the
Dalhousie C. O, T. C. and Flying Club

Wakened at early dawn by the deep

 

Before the battle

Dalhousian

men. ‘‘Bulwarks of old Dal
The following announcement, taken
from the Halifax Mail will be of interest
to a large number of Dalhousians. Mr,
Murray isa member of Phi Delta Theta,

Announcement is made today by
Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Briggs, 16 Oakland
Road, of the marriage, on December 15
last, by Rev. H. B. Clarke, minister of
St. Andrew’s Church, of their daughter,
Margaret Jean, to Albert R. Murray,
son of Mr. and Mrs. A. Murray, of
Fredericton. Mr. Murray is now in
the second year of his Law Course, at
Dalhousie and is a graduate in Arts of
the University of New Brunswick.
The young folk are extremely popular
both in the University circle and generally, and the news that Cupid, after
his usual enterprising fashion, and with
a complete disregard of law lecturés,
has made them the principals in a
wedding, will interest their host of
friends. who wish them heartily many
years of happiness.

Onward into Bed
Cheering madly the company dashed

They quivered,
was imminent

re
Defeat when

Hewatt.
and

With machine guns
spitting forth their

Thousands of bloodless bodies

unerring accuracy of
Dal’s Cadets under 2nd Lieut Com.

The only
Kitts who

was Corporal

 

In his last
ee ee 2 °

Writes Article
Give my pea-shooter and chew
Decet ut pro

 

 

Just at that moment a breathless

on horseback sir!’
the retreat’’ roared General
So thereupon Bugler Clennet

off the
changed
right to

half the enemy
the General
advanced

map.
his
the

Whereat
mind and

 

Dalhousie was victorious. No longfinger of shame on the C. O,T. C.—
for our boys won the war—and captured Bedbug Land. As long as mankind
exists, the C. O. T. C. will be honoured
and pfaised ior having fexterminated
man’s greatest pest—bedbugs.

Notice

 

 

Announcement of the
prize award in the recent! |— 3 SS a
Verse Competition has! pp aRcHisLD MACMECHAN
been postponed until the whose charming article on Canterbury
next issue of the Gazette | appears in this issue.

  

 
 
  
 
  
  
     

 
 

A Stirring Tail
‘coming to him, he said. And When
bent on wringing from him some exd|pression of remorse, some words of

 
  

  
  
 

oft t he|self condemnation, Mrs, Smith indulged
foul would|in an increased flow of tears her im-that disturber of his| patient husband waived her from his
sting slumber—that cursed|room with a gesture of his hand—a
‘the barbaric noises which,| gesture which told her that he had had

turday night with unfailing quite enough nagging for one day—it
= Gecanasd to wreck his|was time to sleep, And sleep Mr.
over-taxed nerves. Certainly | Smith did, until 11 o'clock next morn4 done it; and anyone with sym-| ng, when the police came for him.
es for humanity and its frailties] The neighbours had heard the shot
ss gould not, e with the most un- Pe it was not ae pens aay See ae
_ ————  rdonable bigotry and intolerance,|early morning church-goers found the
% ae dt ee tos for it. 1 beg of | body—a stiff corpse frozen in its own
he oe an on yeremptorily brand murder | blood, which had dyed to a scarlet the
Pa, on Je the pales of justifica-| white snow. ;
= tion on the strength of the mere word} ‘Lhe victim had no immediate family.
itself, 1 beg of you first to read the dis-| he lived with Mrs. Jones and was the
g circumstances of this crime;|one ray of joy in that lady's otherwise
| that 1 will not try nor can ljarab existence. She had forgiven
to influence your judgment. I | whcle-heaitealy his carcusals, for he
a ubt not’but some will yet condemn | had bestuwed on her a warmth of love
i. this strange killing for it remains one| which, to her, outweighed by far the
sof the saddest and most paradoxical} embarrassments of his regular orgies.
commonplaces of life that humanity iS]it was true that the neighbours had
 farfromhuman, | pees . the afiair—had ae s a
ee ge ee sci : lind infatuation as neighbours are
_ __ithad been Cornisre reaaeee . wont to do. but she could well afford
a. An ong Saturday ng d ‘worried man. | tl.eir censor—could witho.t less treat
Bah ray BOSE #. VOLT ee Be : with disdain their scorn. ‘They might
--—-'Yhings at the office were going badly. eee Sei call it
Pee, 4. ge tight everywhere—every- call it illicit love or they mig t cali i
Suny. poet a a} d. but in the stock Lina infatuation. They night con3 ae There it slipped to unkn wn | mn it in still rounder terms, yet they

  
    

   
      
 
    
    
    
   
   
    
  
 
  
  
    
   
  
   
  
   
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  

  
  

 
 

Brel ek : : forcea to admit finally that Mrs.
‘hands with the unconcern that is to be] Were fo! ae :
te 2 ita caged ot machinery buiit to register jones livea sclely fer this—call him
pe See but}creature, if you like, ard he lived

a neds '
deuars Dut not sweat, ea his | Sclely for her. His ceath came, there
icre, as a cruel blow to Mrs. Jcnes.

ig, hes
Me euieee (0: pte oF ae ctch
eens, foe VCS : Lier grief was pathetic to watch and

Eawgrrantes ee vein ee unly a ey the sheer hatred

oe foe becuks i Cheech and|she airectea towards the murderer.
4 Sa acgsent prices had strengthened his | he Soba eee opp hee

~conndence | he Company. Then the full penalty of the law ;
; enone, Ete that sudden dive kor Mrs. Smith it added to the hor
Be se pe oe =yranee with it his hard | °°" of the whole sitcation that her
Eben 9 to the sep tan, eet ets as not all tusband should be apprehended on
[ Rte ey. aut i . Sinith had | “t8Ga@y. Morevuver, the calmness with
Oe antead gota wate: SAGE bHl He| Which he submitted to arrest and the
ayy JEONBES tie af his invest.| Utter unconcern which he manifested
; ap pers 5 ‘ oe tie chance to} had attracted widespread attention to
a gi Sea eS Bot a of her spouse the case and resulted in very undesirpaeeaes a the eer a Gas Corpor-|@ble publicity. There were even ruf ae pene Cnt HARDY SOY” her dubious | ™°rs broadcast that he intended to
ee ee ee decided | Plead his own defense. But his wife
awe see Xo oP crs: a ee atial finally prevailed upon his to secure
ie paeeerese OF to. obliged i tell her}? lawyer. But the community gasped
Phe ie gnepon for it had been of such pro- when they heard the name—that of the

ae : most belittled attorney in the country
puptnses 80. tO demand, & . Seringent with scarcely a successful case to his

Policy of economy and Mrs, See ee credit. Can you wonder that the
never pees apes YO Sie cin Siete court room eee, filled to the doors on
ane acemnge OF 119 OWE the opening day of Pe one co
r : It was a sympathetic audience tha
rig Paka aap age was MS] faced Mr. Smith as, still unruffled, he
Set Lines aes . One cannot pleaded guilty to the charge of the
ine ‘Teretolore unchallenged. court, And the gasp that went up
BDigtere te oo: $ a plum,} ¥25 not to be interpreted as a conthe same eet d vated demnation—it breathed rather the
| a aL tated Saturday eyeepernens concern with which the
40 he shuttled up the| Whole court awaited the outcome of
sialon sable house, heav-| the thal. With unguarded frankness
f his « ve aialt Pets he hoped r. Smith answered every question
ae ee Panes eee a et ne tha of the prosecuting counsel, with each
ss might mitigate before t his wife answer incriminating himself, without
a yk ~ SERRE Se ae a his Bothes a word in his own defense except that
eae As he wearily Mn Ginith further | be Was sleepy and the damned fool
~ fe must not give Mrs. eae? q| Was making a hell of a racket.” Twice
oan) Ge unds for nagging) € i ae Mrs. Jones in an uncontrolled out burst
eae ee see tien eee OMe of passion had shrieked Pt aigahe
: : ‘lacross the court room. wice the
ps Smith ws? ordinarily eee ae sheriff was obliged to threaten her with
--— and_~=he comforted ae Pit id expulsion. The witnesses called were
thought that a good Sout Pere 5 few and their evidence insignificant
ee 5 ene eck Hh ves beside en weer of Mr. oe
Pee tees } Ce The judge charged the jury and the
ee ee ead MacBerh's audience. ebied with sue arnt his
A ‘Griys toate review of the case was decidedly sym‘Soliloquy —— cogging preset pathetic for the prisoner. The judge
he repeate is a pes i te senti. |COuld, they reflected, make things
with an emphasis amoun ve ied bad for Mr. Smith. This quiet little
ee cue eet hen d ae eel eben en ayerecredp _
“e : ; ; sudden ecome very dear to the
therefore, patient reader, 1 oss ING caatonte: The proverbial hush fell
awk . aes St Nicvsneshity: upon the ust oe the herent of the
ih ’| jury, which had remained out a scant
for Taney things that cold sesno8 ven 5 sates: declared the prisoner guilty.
frown on find forced expression in the} ) 1, everything depended on the judge.
3 ranks of the sentimentals. _ |Mr, Smith rose to hear the sentence
| Tired nerves were already being pronounced. ‘‘I sentence you,’’ said
soothed by the approach of healing/the judge, for the first time looking
SERS ES ae Se ee
the open window € raucous yodeing rs. jones, . ou shall also pay
of hte: depraved carouser smote Mr.|the costs of this court.”
Smith’s ears and brought him back.}| ‘But,’ shrieked Mrs. Jones, ‘‘that
to the ro stern occas cat was Th a Blue Persian, He
that midnight marauder again—that] cost me $45.”
inhuman cresctre on his regular Satur-| ‘‘Well,’’ retorted the judge, no doubt
Pike day night bust—that thing deaf to all] anxious to display his ability in arith
. ; cae 7

. .
4 .
aves
ie

  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

is "were the unceasing rantings of his dis
     
  
  
 
 
 
    

tf ee ee ie

ee

rr! Se m
ate

eee ,
ot a
5

 

    

     
   
 
  
    
    
      
 
     
 
  
 

ot

a i pleadings and as yet unaccosted by the| metic, ‘‘he still has 8 lives left hasn't
ae tardy arm of the law, Well he had|/he?’” Thus ended the tragedy.
a e unpunished long enough, curse
him!) Tonight Mr, Smith would fix ae
Wa i Bo fc good, Pushing anes shee
Se: covers he got up and walked to his
es Palit pyreau, and dpe the oe eo ae Glee Club Show
tie. Where it een unused so long, he :
ea sae aevolver. The linoleum “was (Continued from page 1)
-—s gold on his bare feet; the night air was], .). :
heck a oorits 48 it. blew the curtains gently Lillian (Ruth Macauley) in the second
i faweeda Yet Mr. Smith was slow in| e"° had not the true warmth of
wee ie Se ae 1 }enthusiasm in them. This scene elicit
‘his movements, His slowness, how
sever, was born not of undecided hesi——s‘ tation but of a determination to succeed
imi project.

ed much response from the back seats.

The cast follows:
Eeoy “Lillian... .....
a é  s, Richard Garson Allister Reid
Sh. icy yy, SORE; scarce 25 yards away, MGW SMEG Oe ey leds Dorothy Gray
saw the object of his hatred clinging | Frederick Paton Douglas Murray
_ in his helplessness to the corner of the} Dr, Brodie Walter Mackenzy
fence, his legs unsteady under him| Withers.............. Wilmer Fraser
but his mouth wide open and yodeling} Mr, Redding.......... William Jost
7 wr. He could forgive every] Mrs. Redding Ruth Crandall

a | t Mr. re
that cursed yodel. Slowly he] The Direction and Cast gave Dalthe gun, took careful aim and|housians, last night, a well finished
ately pulled the trigger. It was] production. May we look ferward to
shot. Calmly he wa is} another of the same high tone in the
veel and drop to the ground; | near future.
calmly he replaced his revolver} Dalhousie’s new Service Building
imbed back into bed. Mrs.|was opened with a program, both of
came running wild-eyed into} character and of performance, quite in
droom, Relieved she saw her| keeping with the Dalhousie tradition
bed; but her relief|of things well-done. The Glee Club’s
of hysterical dismay progress well merited the applause
lowing her husband’s | from the largest and one of the happiest
she saw the huddled|audiences to congregate at Studley
en snow below. Now,|Campus. The gymnasium, capable of
night just as well have| seating 1700, was filled to the back
Iness of it all, the! window-ledges and showed no restless
r, Smith was ness except on the tardiness of curtainwell had {t/raising, Although working under the

Ruth Macauley

Sas vie s''ee

_*e eee

raat
eee & C's O-e

‘Smith, eve

  
 
    

 
   
 
   
 
   
    
      
 
 

i

   

     
  

iC Ww ’
nm

te,

  
  

vy
at

w

.

Basketball.

The Intercollegiate Basketball team

was defeated by the Acadia girls in
Wolfville on February 20th. The
final score was 82-18 in favour of
Acadia.. Ih the first half the teams
were evenly matched but in the second
half the Acadians played the better
ame. It was not a good exhibition
of basketball, neither team was up to
its usual standard.

On Tuesday evening King’s girls
were victorious over Dal in the City
League play-off by a score of 28-21.
This marks decided improvement for
the Dal girls.

N. B. On Saturday, March 5th,
from twelve to one the Mount Allison
girls’ basketball team will meet the
Dal girls in their annual play-off in the
‘ew Gymnasium here in Halifax.

Hockey.

We are indebted to Mr. Ken Purtill
for his untiring and willing efforts in
coaching the Girls’ Hockey Team.
The support lately has been very lax
and we realize how disappointed our
coach must be in the turn out of the
last few practis.s. The season isn’t
nearly over yet so let us see a little
added enthusiasm in the future and
materially show the Students’ Council
vur appreciation of the opportunities
they have afforded us.

Badminton.

Arrangements will soon be made
or we are hoping so for certain hoursf r
Badminton in the \éw Gymnasium.
Don't fail to watch notice boards for
further informntion.

 

Woman’s Place in
the Home

(Continued from page 1.)

——— =

by name, from an over-zealous party
of sophs, The sweet thing was kind
to animals, even though she did have
the heart of an ox, and her whole soul
flowed and boiled over to Jack Smith.
Psychologists now say that her’s was a
case of a psychopathically inverted
Sadism, but what do psychologists
know about moonlight and roses-~ In
any case Peg rescued Jack Smith and
with an “ils né passeront pas’’ pressed
him to her heaving (Way Hay! Heave
Away!) bosom (Way Hay! Heave
Away!). He wore the pin of her Sorority Eta Eta Eta until his dying day,
and then he bequeathed her memory to
the Rotarians. Co-education had now
achieved a beginning and with the
later efforts of Mae Edwards, Boadicea,
Carrie Nation, and Agnes MacPhail,
has become an undisputed fact, even at
Sodales,

But how are we to face the present,
especially in 1932 when it is inescapable.
It goes without say, aye without think-ing, that women are not the equal of
men—mentally, physically, or morally
We were told by a travelling salesman
while coming from Neil’s Harbour four
years ago that he knew a fellow who
knew a Co-ed who thought that George
Ade was a drink, and they are all like
that, They are constitutionally unable
to appreciate and take advantage of our
learning systems. Thrice weekly we
get our fifty minute dose of culture per
class and go home satisfied, but these
dumb women form a Mid-, a Mid-, a
Mid-something Club and read Dr,
Chase’s Almanac and so anticipate the
profs, best jokes. We are quite persuaded that this constitutes a threat
to our economic order and that the
Ontario Government should look into
it. What have these women to give
breath, height, or depth to life- Where
is their mentally stimulating C. O. T.
C.- What have they to rival the
moral uplift of the Basement Poker
Association Where have they or
under what conditions have they ever
achieved the ennobling audacity of a
Moustache Club- Where, we ask you,
Where—(We were going to ask again,
but have somehow forgotten the rutes
for rhetoricai questions),

Thus, we impeach co-education in
the name of the hot air that has been
wasted upon it, We impeach co-education in the name of the masculine complacency that it has destroyed. And
lastly, (We raise our voices until the
radiators tremble) we impeach co-education lest government of the half-wits
for the half-wits, by the half-wits, shall
not perish from the earth, And how
could we better end our thesis than with
the words of the Hindu sage in the
Ramayana:

Lives of great men all remind us

We can make our lives sublime,

And departing leave behind us,

Footprints in the sands of time.

 

circumstances of new and_ strange
lurroundings, the Glee Club should
earn, for the popularity of future
performances, that a prompt curtain
raises On an audience in a good frame of
mind.

Last night’s performance left the
student body looking forward to the
Club’s next offering; the performance
of more of the College’s best dramatic
and musical talent.

 

After the Glee Club Show the Senior
Class staged a very successful dance at
Sherriff Hall. Yale Brady’s orchestra
supplied the music,

 

 

THE EARL OF BESSBORO UGH
who with the Countess Bessbororgh
inspected last Friday various buildings
of the University.

 

Disarmament and

Shanghai

(Continued from ‘‘Comment”

—_—

 

Disarmament—and Shanghai.

Proceedings at the Geneva Conference have now reached a preliminary
summing-up stage. The Chiefs of
delegation have made their statements
in elaborate speeches intended as much
for the home populations as for fureign
representatives around the table. Russia’s proposal for completed disarmament was rejected by the Conference,
as all parties doubtless expected—not
excluding the Russians. While several
programs have been submitted to the
Conference it appears that the area of
common agreement among -the plans
of the Powers is very restricted. Two
Powers agree on the abolition of
military aviation, three on ‘that of
tanks, three stand opposed to conscription, and four to aerial bombing.
But the only measure on which they
all agree is the outlawry of bacteriological warfare and unwarranted attacks by air on non-combatants. _

Many correspondents are inclined
to take a cynical view of the Conference
They point out that so far it has agreed
upon nothing, and is unlikely to progress further. Yet so many other
pressing matters of international concern are bound up with the disarmament question that it is perhaps unfair
to dub the Conference a failure—as yet.
Two situations in particular may cause
the Conference to mark time pending
their solution, the reparations problem
scheduled for conference in June, and
the situation in the East.

The Chinese delegation sought to
make a very real connexion between
the Battle of Shanghai and the Conference in their proposal of last week.
They asked for broadcasting apparatus
in the main assembly hall to reproduce
the actual thunder of Japanese guns in
action. The suggestion, perhaps fortunately, was not adopted.

The much-mooted method for the
prevention of war by process of moral
suasion comes up for a final acid test
in the near future. Some forces of
public opinion have already been
brought to bear upon the combatabts
in the East. Both parties have been
reminded of their obligations under
the Pact of Paris, the League Covenant,
and the Nine-Power Treaty. League
exhortations and notes from Washington have descended upon Tokyo.
Their effect has been disappointing.
Now comes the final massing of world

ublic opinion. The Assembly of the

eague convenes on March 8rd at the
call of China, The situation will be
thoroughly aired, Discussion in the
Assembly is more public and less
diplomatic than that in Council.
The smaller nations will be free to air
their views. The proceedings of the
Assembly, disseminated by the Press
of every nation, will make for the forming of a flood of public opinion, all of
which may or may not have an effect
upon Japanese policy. Ts :

If an aroused public opinion fails
to stay the conflict of its own accord,
and one school of thought in international afiairs is thereby rebutted,
it remains a question whether that
same aroused public opinion will
support the application of stronger
means, There is at present much
talk of the economic sanction of the
Covenant, the commercial and financial
boycott of Japan. Unquestionably
there are many objections to boycott
in principle. The severance of trading
connexions with an offending state
imposes an unequal injury upon the
boycotting states depending upon the
extent and value of their existing relations. It bears inequitably upon private traders within the states. If not
applied universally it may cause a
lasting realignment of trade channels
which implies damage to some vested
interests. If these wrongs are not
rédressed they may themselves become
bones for international contention.
Boycott in practise would require the
participation of the United States as
well as that of State members of the
League, and American cooperation
is certainly not to be taken for granted
at the present time. Application of
the sanction is serious business. It will
certainly not be used if other means
can be found whereby the Japanese
may release the tiger they now have
by the tail at Shanghai,

March 2nd, 1982

|| The Case for Nationalization

of Radio Broadcasting

 

Foreword: The object of this article
is not to propose the ways and means

| for the establishment and maintenance
‘of a Canadian National system, but

simply to show that the importance of
social and cultural factors at stake
justifies an investigation of the economic factors.

During the last score of years, radios,
have developed from interesting experimental toys in the hands of professional and amateur scientists into
important mediums of instruction and
entertainment in the homes of hundreds
of thousands of Canadians and millions
of Americans. The potential influence
of radio broadeasting is therefore
enormous, since it touches upon the
lives of so many people of all ages and
conditions. Whether this influence be
for good or for evil depends, of course,
upon the interests behind the programs,

Respecting Education.

The radio may be made, under proper management, a valuable instrument
of education. In the United States,
where two great broadcasting syndicates are in control of practically al!
of the broadcasting facilities, the
Government now finds itself tied,
hand and foot, in the matter of educational broadcasts. Radio advertising
is probably the most effective advertising that can be done. Consequently,
under a system governed by private
enterprise, the work of persuading
people to buy chewing gum, tooth
paste and other commodities is much
more important and profitable than
is the work of education, for this reason
the small inadequate rights reserved
to educationalists must be  defended continuously against wealthy
and unscrupulous encroachers.

The Nature of Programs.

How utterly worthless, from any
decent standard are the vast majority
of programs broadcast on this continent today, must be realized by all
right-thinking Canadians, Upon the
susceptible minds of children and
adolescents as well as upon those of
adults is being released a torrent of
sickening, crooning, cheap drama, slapstick comedy and wearying jazz.
These programs are interspersed with
exhortations to buy gum drops, of
to appreciate the service given mankind by some syndicate. Young minds
are being trained, not to appreciate
good music and good literature, but to
be content with the lowest forms of
these arts. What the comic strip is
to the editorial. page of.a newspaper,
so is the majority of North American
broadcasts to worthwhile entertainment.

Canada Follows the U. S.

Why, it may be asked, is so much
reference being made to the United
States, when the question of nationalization of Canadian broadcasting is
under discussion? There are two reasons: First, altnough conditions in
Canada are not, in respect to radio,
so bad as they are in the United States,
he difference is only one of degree.
The path that led the States to sucha
sorry situation is the path now being
followed by Canada. Second, the
reception of Canadian broadcasting in
Canada is, in most regions, insignificant
as compared with the reception of
American broadcasting. Therefore
the plight of radio in the nation to the
south may be indicated as an example
of what the plight will be in Canada
unless the Canadian policy be changed.
And the wretched poverty of most of

the American programs must be indicated in its influence on th educotion
of Canadian youth. Certainly the
effects of such programs are harmful
enough in the United States, but there
they represent, at the worst, propaganda. But in Canada they represent
not only propaganda, but propaganda
tinged with some things in American
nationalism that we do not desire to
assimilate, Of the multitude of good
things in the United States, few come
out through the air. Surely we are
sufficiently subjected through the influx
of cheap magazines to American anticulturalism, without submitting to it
through the medium of broadcasting,
To what extent Canadian literature
has been stifled by our position relative
to the States, can only be a matter for
conjecture. Now the same threat is
being applied to our music and our
very national consciousness.
Private Enterprise Inadequate.

It is evident that private enterprise
in Canada can not, even if it were
desirable that it should, establish and
maintain a broadcasting system comparable with that of the United States,
The volume of advertising available
in the Dominion is totally inadequate
for such a project. This means that
the Canadian producer as compared
to the producer in the United Stntes.
labours under a heavy handicap,
Either he must advertize through a
powerful American station or else he
must be content to reach only two out
of five Canadian homes. That is
the proportion of homes in Canada,
according to the findings of the Radio,
League, in which Canadian broadcasts
are received,

Private Monoply or Public Ownership /

After all, the problem is not one of
private enterprise or public monopoly.
That has been demonstrated in the
United States of America. The problem is to choose between public monopoly and private monopoly, to decide
whether our entertainment will be
selected by ourselves through our
representatives, or by individuals motivated by purely selfish considerations.
We must decide whether the radio,
which is likely to become, in the future,
an even greater factor than it is today
in the shaping of national thought
and education—we must decide whether this radio is to be exploited by purelt
selfish commercial interests or whether
it is to be governed with a view to the
cultural and educational development
of the Dominion. That is the quéstion
that Canadians must answer in the
immediate future.

Development of Canadian Music.

And, incidental to these major considerations, there is the question of
encouraging Canadian art. Under the
present system where the really effective broadcasts, from an advertising
standpoint come through American
stations, little stimulus is given to
Canadian music or to Canadian muéicians and entertainers, Under a Canadian system that would bring every
Canadian home within the reception
area of Canadian broadcasting; unde
a system shaped to provide education
and good entertainment—Canadian
artists would come into their own.

Then from the standpoint of the
Canadian listener-in, the Canadian
producer, and the Canadian artist, a
national system of broadcasting is
very desirable. ‘So also is it desirable
to maintain the national integrity of
the Dominion,

NOTE. For convenience, American
in the above paragraphs has been
restricted in application to the United
States.

 

 

Shirt Sale 
 

We have divided our stock of shirts into two

groups for clearance.

Values up to $2.50 for $1.49

Values up to $3.50 for $1.98

These shirts are made by Tooke, Forsyth and

Arrow, and are being cleared to make room

for new spring goods.

Shanes Mens Wea

 

30 spring SOP Garden Ra.

 

 

 
