   
   
    
    
   
  
     
   
       
 

  

Glee Club to Stage
me Varied
_ Programme

ta Post-Christmas Plans
>... Disclosed fy

| eo Fed

a

i 2

ae

Bt

=

|

cr Ist week in February—‘‘The Betrayal” a one act play by Padraic
~ Colum directed by Dr. Ron Hayes.
’ —s Also. ~musical features. At Nelson
_ -Hall. The Characters in the play are
taken by: Elizabeth Saunderson, Rich: by ard Squires, Raymond McCarthy, and
Irving Pink.

Latter part of F Siemanyf vegram
_ for the opening of the Memorial Gymnasium. A three scene play directed
> (by Mr: W. C. MacKenzie. Also
Symphony Orchestra and Choral Socae a ie i ;

ihe Medak Kepcan Club show, Delta
__ .Gamma show, and possibly a gym show
ar and Choral society night... » * ) *
 April—Plans are being made for
mm "the first appearance at Dalhousie of the
Hart House String Quartet.

_--~—~—--—s- Stage properties for the new gym--masium are now in preparation. In
ats, _ choosing the stage tacilities the Glee

m Lh i,

 
 
 
     
      
   
    
  
  
   
    
   
  
 

m

 

Club have acted in consultation with
Professor Theakston, with the advisory
and technical counsel of Mr. Gregg
‘Thomas, Superintendent of the Capitol
Building, and Mr. Jack O’Connell,
Manager of the Garrick Theatre.
"The Symphony Orchestra are re__ hearsing at the Munro Room every
‘Thursday night under the baton of
Professor Harry Dean. Although the
turnout has been fairly satisfactory,
many of Dalhousie’s musicians have
as yet failed to put in appearance at,
| these meetings. To these, let it be
known that their presence would be
_-—_—s greatly appreciated and is really needed
a. aging eel complete success of the Symphony. We feel that you will be more
than reimbursed by the instruction
u will receive, by the enjoyment
which is inevitably derived from the
unity of a musical organization, and by
the, feeling of self satisfaction and
ment in havin played a part
e building of a very desirable and
ry necessary organization in our
a ee

i

 

Notice

ey :
fi . Badminton is again in full swing.
All the Dalhousie girls are invited to
come and play. It does not matter
whether you have played before or not.
The King’s gymnasium is available

every Monday evening from 9-11 and
every Saturday afternoon from 4.455.45 P. M. The court at the School
for the Blind is also available every
Tuesday afternoon from 2-5.

a

_ ELIZABETH SAUNDERSON

 

a Notice

Life Officers of Class ’32 will be
elected on Thursday, January 28th
at 12 o’clock. Room 2.
am |

/
rt

 

last presented itself!

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

   

 

Music Lovers

Hold Drive

The opportunity for which Dalhousians have been long waiting has at
Many times in
the last few years has the question
been asked: ‘‘Why cannot Dalhousie
have a series of concerts by noted artists such as are given annually at
Acadia and Mount Allison?” With
the coming of the Community Concert
Service to the city with its plan for
providing such concerts, there no longer will be heard questions such as the
above. Now just what is this plan,
and how does it concern Dalhousie?

At a meeting of the Student Body
last Tuesday, Mr. H. K. Hooks, the
Organization Director of the C. C. S.,
outlined the plan which is presented
here for the benefit of those who were
unable to be at the meeting. In years
past, the Philharmonic Society of the
city has been presenting Festival Concerts assisted by many outstanding
artists have been brought here to assist
the Chorus and Orchestra, and programs of high merit have been ovresented. Due to the cost of bringing such
talent to the city, the admission has
had to be placed at a figure which was
out of the range of most Students’
pocketbooks. This year, the Society
has asked the C. C. S. to come to the
city and present their plan which in
brief is this. By an amalgamation of
the five leading Concert Bureaux of
New York the Community Concert
Association now controls ninety percent of the world’s leading artists.
The Association, now working in more
than a hundred cities and towns in
Canada and the United States, puts on
a campaign for membership in this
Association, inviting every citizen to
join at the membership rate of five
dollars, Student Membership three
dollars. This membership entitles one
to attend all concerts presented by the
Association both in this city and in any

ting, without any additional expenses.

join for another year.

missions are sold for the concerts.

money raised permits. All

the nominal fee of three dollars!

all.

at nine o'clock. After this time, no
memberships may be obtained. The
Teams working on the campaign in
Dalhousie are the following:

Howard Kennedy, (Captain) Arts.
W. A. Crandall, Medicine.

Fulton Tuttle, i

Douglas Gibbon, r

Gordon Elkin, Engineers.

Allan Beveridge, Arts.

Will Archibald, Arts.

Fraser Nicholson, Pre-Med.

Jane Smith, (Captain).
Winnie Killam.
Dorotny Vernon.
Olive MacMillan.
Rachel Wainwright.
Gladys Jost.

Helena Bishop.

Daisy Zwicker.

' Ask any of the above about the
Community Concert Service, and get
your membership from them. Remember, Student Memberships are reduced
to three dollars, can only be obtained
during the campaign week, admit the
holder to any or all concerts, which
will all be held before the close of the
college term in April, and can be used
in other cities where the Service is
operating. Any questions about the
plan will be cheerfully answered if
you will call at the Headquarters,
Willis Piano Company, B6767, or by
calling Howard Kennedy, B9586.

_| “MILLIONAIRES BALL”

_ FRIDAY, JANUARY 29th..--.-.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

other in which the Association is opera
‘The campaign for membership lasts
one week only, after which no one can

Only members of the Association can
attend the concerts, as no single a8
minimum of three concerts is assurePp,
and as many more as the amount of
money
raised is spent for artists, musical attraction and the attending local expenses incident to the presentation.
Here, then is an opportunity for Dalhousie Students to hear at least three
concerts by world famous artists ot

s
an example of the type of artist, it is
rumoured that Halifax will hear Mischa
Elman, the famous violinist, which
alone ought to commend the plan to us

The Campaign is being conducted
this week, ending on Saturday night

 

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 27th, 1932.

Extemporaneous |Mordant Criticism

Debate This

Evening

Unique entertainment
expected

A novel procedure will be introduced
at the next meeting of Sodales Debating Society to be held in the Munro
Room at 7.30 p. m. tonight, Wednesday
the 27th. Ten selected speakers, among whom will be Arthur Pattillo,
Potter Oyler, John Fisher, T. D.
MacDonald and at least three girl
debaters, are to draw for the subjects
on which they will address the meeting.
Speeches will run to a five-minute
length. The new method will effectually preclude any set or memorized
speeches and will put ability for extemporaneous speaking at a premium.
It will be open to any members of the
audience to speak up on any of the
ten selected topics. The Executive of
Sodales have in this way set a program
which should make for an interesting
evening and a good attendance of the
students interested is expected.

The trials for university teams will
be held in the Munro Room on Monday, Feb. Ist. There are five positions
open for debaters, three on the Intercollegiate team which meets St. Francis
Xavier in March, and two for the team
which will oppose the touring Canadian team of Ontario Agricultural
College and Ottawa University. Intercollegiate positions are open to undergraduates only. The subject for the
St. F. X. debate is ‘‘Resolved that the
League of Nations is not an effective
instrument for the preservation of
world peace.’’ That for the other is
‘Resolved that the principle of competition has retarded the progress of
the world.” Speakers at the trials may
speak on either side of either subject.

LL +

from Correspondent

Deplores card playing at
Studley

Halifax, Jan. 25, 1932.

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.
a

Dear Sir:—

I desire to express an opinion and |
am not going to mince my words in
doing so.

Here it is: There is too much card

to play on, the students use the class
pictures of yesteryears, and asa consequence there are only 5 left on the
walls of this room, of the 14 that were
there when the term started, there are
2 or 3 being used now, the other 6 or 7
being repaired they being damaged,
broken glass, cracked frames, etc.

This practice should be stopped by
the authorities, the Senate the
Student Council.

The graduates of former years should
be given the places of distinction on
our walls, and they certainly were never
tables for

or

meant to furnish poker
present 6th year students.

it is a disgrace, and if the authorities
haven't the gumption to clear up this
situation, then it should be done by
the intelligent side of the student body.

ACTION.

Note: The views of the Editor are
quite in accord with those of ACTION.
This matter is further referred to on
page three, column three.

 

“Everything is ready” is all the
Millionaires Ball committee will say
but to one behind the scenes a wealth of
meaning is behind that phrase.

Best of all, Joe Mills has arranged
a ‘‘stunt’’ which has never before been
pulled in Halifax. He is going to
feature deep close harmony in special
choruses played by two baritone saxes
and the tenor sax. To those who know
Joe, this means music unequalled; to
those who don’t—just one word:
Come and hear him! .

The committee have been especially
fortunate in securing for chaperones
Dean and Mrs.Sidney Smith, Dr. and
Mrs: Hugh Bell, and Mr. and Mrs.
George A. Thompson. ‘There you are
folks! <A perfect setting, THE orchestra and gracious hostesses—the rest
is up to you. Date the Girl Friend—
and come to a real dance, The Millionaires Ball.

joyable house party last Sunday night
when the members were the guests of
Mrs. F. Levison, 271 South Street.
The house was decorated for the occasion with royal purple and white,
the Fraternity’s colors, and, what with
good rood, and good music, a very nice
time was had by all.

 

Sigma Theta

The Sigma Theta Sorority held a
most successful sleigh drive last Saturday night. The company met at
eight o’clock at the Ferry wharf and
proceeded thence to Dartmouth where
two large sleighs were waiting. After
a two hour drive to the pleasure of
which the weather loaned itself admirably, the party returned to Dartmouth where lunch was served and a
short dance indulged in. At twelve
fifteen the company returned to the,
city. The committee in charge deserve credit for a most creditable fiinction.

 

 

Millionaires’ Ball\ U. K. C. News

_ King’s basketbal! team won the
opening game of the Intermediate
Basketball League by a score of 27 to
21 at the Y Saturday. night, overcoming a lead of twelve points which
St. John’s obtained in the first ten
minutes of play. The King’s team
look to be stronger than last year’s, and
should give a good account of themselves this season. Tapley, G. Smith
and Dorman showed up well for the
King’s men Saturday night.

King’s Co-Eds entertained at a
masquerade dance on last Wednesdays
evening, when about twenty-five couples enjoyed the music provided by Jack
Crowe, Cos Brittain, and Len Tilley.
Several fine costumes, and many novel
ones, were displayed, among which
Miss Margaret Fairweather and John
Hebb carried off the prizes. Mrs.
McCurdy, Dean of women, acted as
chaperone.

 

Phi Delta Epsilon| Mt. A. Society

Dr. Geo. J. Trueman and Rev.

Phi Delta Epsilon had a very en-| W.S. Godfrey will be in the city on

January 29th. for the purpose of
holding a meeting of the Mt. Allison Society in this district. The
program will consist of a banquet
at the Nova Scotian Hotel, followed
by a short business meeting. All
former students of Mt. Allison
are cordially invited to attend.
Time—Jan. 29th. at 7.00 p. m.
Place—Nova Scotian Hotel.
Price—$1.00 per plate.

 

Le Circle Francais

The first after-Christmas meeting
of the French Club will take place
Thursday of this week if Sherriff Hall
is available. A good programme i
assured. S

A Talk by Professor Martin.

A Song ‘‘La Madelon”’ by the Male
Chorus.

A Short Talk by Mr. Forster.

A Short Play from Moliere by three
Freshmen. :

Dancing.

Refreshments.

JOE MILL’S ORCHESTRA

oe

9 P. M.---2 A.

M.

A atiienaditetil ee dade

playing being done in the students i
smoking room. ‘There being no s | discussion on modern literature.

Literary Club
| States Aim

| Midlothian Society is in this writer’s

opinion a very much misunderstood
Society at Dalhousie. There are three
stock answers to the question, ‘‘What
is Midlothian?”’ First—‘‘Never heard
of it.” Second—"'It is an eating club
run by certain women who like to
exchange a bit of gossip every week.”
Third and last—‘‘The Ladies’ BlueStocking Society.”’

The writer would then suggest that
anyone of you who concur in any of the
above statements read the following
account of Midlothian Activities. |
shall try and make it as clear as possible

Midlothian Society was started by a
few pioneer spirits who were fond of
reacing and decided that they would
like to enjoy a little bit of regulated

Those
who started it were more or less wellread people. Very shortly, however,
those who wanted to know more about
the world of literature, came and asked
to be admitted to membership. By
this time these few pioneers had
gathered about them a group which
soon assumed the formidability of a
club. A name had to be found for it
and Midlothian was decided upon since
that name had been made famous by
L.terature and since that was also the
name of the residence cf the Earl of
Dalhousie. That is the brief story of
how Midlothian came into existence.

In 1929 Miss Lowe, then warden of
Shirreff Hall organized Midlothian
with a very limited membership. It
was at that time decided by the society
that it would function as a kind of
readers guide to anyone who cared to
join. At the same time it was assumed
that those who joined would do so in
a spirit of cooperation, that everyone
would be prepared to do a little reading
each week and give the members the
benefit.

At the present time the general
purpose of Midlothianand its aimare
to encourage women students to take
an intelligent interest in contemporary
literature and events. The society
meets every week. One person usually
has charge of thediscussion. She allots
to each member during the week certain specified selections from the author
that she has chosen or that the society
has chosen. Each member then comes
prepared to take an intelligent interest
in the proceedings. Some one person
may even prepare a short paper on a
subject of particular interest to all,
and she may also have run across some
information which is of general interest
to all.

The meetings of
enjoyable to my mind. The program
of eachissimple. There is first a more
or less introductory discussion, some
reading, more discussion, a nice wood
fire to sit by and finally some refreshments. All members seem to enjoy
themselves.

Again there is one value that Midlothian really stands for; that is the
benefit one may receive from another
persons reading experience. Fifteen
people can read Kipling in a shorter
time than one, and hence fifteen people
have managed to pick out the more
interesting and the better works of
Kipling for the benefit of each one.
Some of course do not enjoy reading
asmuch as others, but Midlothian feels
that is has justified itself if only a few
people learn to read a little bit more
intelligently.

All this sounds autocratic and it
may seem to some readers that Midlothian is attempting to be an intellectual, arrogant body. I sincerely hope
that it does not, but as I have said
before, we feel that fifteen people can
read to better advantage than one.
Fifteen is the approximate membership
at the present,

Many girls have complained too,
because Midlothian is not open to all.
The Society, I may say, feels secretly
proud of such a compliment, but at the
same time feel that the risk is too great.
The Society has been obliged to turn
down prospective members from time
to time for several reasons. It seems
better that the reasons should be
explained in print where all may read.

[t has been found that if there are
too many members Midlothian as
a Society would fail. Secondly, many
people have not been admitted to
membership owing to the fact that
they do not read and will not read
anything but ‘magazines, no matter

(Continued on page 4)

Midlothian are

ee a

 

   

No. 11

Dal Graduate
Has Brilliant

Career

Is now Provincial Archivist

Professor D. C. Harvey B. A. (Oxon)
F. R. S. C. who is Provincial Archivist
for Nova Scotia was appointed to the
office in 1931. Professor Harvey is
also attached to the Chair of History
at Dalhousie University.

Daniel C. Harvey was born in Cape
Traverse, Prince Edward Island. After taking his first two years in Arts
at Prince of Wales College in 1908
and 1909 he came to Dalhousie. After
graduating with High Honours and
Great Distinction he proceeded to
Oxtord as Rhodes Scholar for Nova
Scotia. From Queen’s College, Oxford, Professor Harvey graduated with
honours in Modern History in 1918.

For the next year he lectured in History at McGill University. In 1915
he was appointed Professor of History
at the University of Manitoba where
he remained until 1928. From 1928
until 1981 Professor Harvey was head
of the Department of History at the
University ot British Columbia.

A great honour was bestowed on
him by his being elected a Fellow of the
Royal Society cf Canada, an honour
only granted to those who are extremely prominent in the field of literature
history, science and art.

In August 1931 Protessor Harvey
was appointed to the Historical Sites
and Monuments Board of Canada, in
succession to Judge Crowe of Sydney.

Professor Harvey is a regular contributor to reputable journals throughout Canada such as the. Dalhousie
Review, and the Canadian Historical
Review. In 1923 while at Manitoba
he edited the ‘‘Roll of Honour.” In
1926 he wrote and published ‘The
French Regime in Prince Edward
Island.”” In 1927 he republished with

‘an introduction Whelan’s ‘‘The Union

of the British Provinces.”” From time
to time articles by Professor Harvey
have been published by the Royal
Society, an honour in itself.

Ag Provincial Archivist, Professor
Harvey has before him a task of organizing and properly filing the public
records, of searching for the less known
tacts and of stimulating interest on the
part of Nova Scotians in their own
history. The task is no easy one, but
we feel sure that with his knowledge
experience, and personality, Professor
Harvey will, as he has done in all
other things make a great success of it,

| Dal Alumnus |

; |
|
a

The date of the Kings Student ,Body
Dance has been delayed till, Tuesday,
February 4. In the meantime the committe eheaded by Staff Tanton is going
ahead with arrangements, andit 1s expected that the affair.will, be an
unqualified success.

 

ASA

er SRN Te

oes
eh

   

 

C. HARVEY

 

 

——

 

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

COUPLE $3.00 - SINGLE $2.00

 

 
: Rf
. a ie
; LE &, Jian - 3%, is oC al fie
2.» ie + a nt ua (of og ee ake
uy . ae a : ‘ Ties art
| ti F a A | a af Aan a : } Ve
tee: APL eet ere pg t
Pe eRe eee a et
ee + oe © ue
Me ae hy, hi et Aa *
‘wi tx : *.
may 2
wer), ie a ~
} Bip Pp a
=. a — ee — “ —
a ~~ c
Frag 3 ae fo
sir!

   
  
  
    
 
 
   
    
  
 
    
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
    
    
  
  
   
    
  
 
    
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
 
  

ae ee, ccm hr. a, :
Founded 1869. ‘The Oldest College Paper in America.”

“*'T no a ge eee
« i im =e tae a
j _ i Any 3)

ae
= ;

eee Radstor: ; . Managing Editors:
THOMAS D. MacDONALD, B.A. | THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
Rae aet'., L2SOO 7 WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
Associates:
‘a H. B. CHANDLER
LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.
, DANIEL SPRY |
ELIZABETH MARCH
irl orts: Sports Editor:
GLADYS Mt josT R. D’ DUCHEMIN
~" B9T46 B9603

News Editor:
fa! MARGARET DORMAN
EDWARD B HIGGINS
ELIZABETH MURRAY

RUTH CRANDALL Asst. Business Manager:

CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.
B2436

Business Manager:
DONALD MAHON

B1826
Proof Editors:
AARON ZIVE, B. Sc.

a
PRINTED BY WM MACNAB&SON, 7-9-Il BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL.

A few of the students interested in interfaculty basketball
have been complaining about the lack of support which the sport
is receiving thisseason. It seems that not only do undergraduates
fail to attend the games, but even the various teams entered in
competition neglect to provide the requisite number of players
when they are scheduled to perform. Moreover, on several
occasions no referee has been immediately available, with the
result that any coherent organization is rendered difficult. It
is rather a pity to see a decline of intramural sport, for it is really
the most valuable and beneficial part of collegiate athletics. No
doubt the necessity of using a strange, distant gymnasium has a
lot to do with the present condition. At the same time, we would
urge those of the students who can play basketball to turn out in
larger numbers, and bolster up this interfaculty game.

IMPROVING OUR MUSICAL STATUS.

There is a lamentable lacuna in the educational life of our
University caused by the fact that very few of the students have
any opportunity to hear really good music. In this respect
Dalhousie is regrettably behind her more enterprising Maritime
contemporaries. The authorities at Acadia, for instance, have
always been energetic in arranging classical concerts throughout
the term, on which occasions the undergraduate body is able to
enjoy the performance of some visiting artist or artists. A sim‘lar
custom prevails at Mount Allison. The latter institution provides,
for the use of its students, a room equipped with a modern orthophonic, a substantial collection of first class gramophone records,
sca dures comfortable seating facilities. Here, small gatherings of
-_ people can congregate during their spare hours, to regale themselves
with selections from the Great Masters of Melody. Such a practice
is praiseworthy beyond measure, and could be adopted by other
- colleges with extremely beneficial results. Ba eves
The present condition at Dalhousie, however, bids fair to be
rapidly rectified, that is, if recent reports merit credence. The
establishing in the city a short time ago of the Community Concerts
Association, sponsored by the Halifax Philharmonic Society,
of which President C. W. Stanley is an advisory member.
seems to be one ground for the widespread rumour that some sort
of arrangement is to be made between the society and the University, whereby certain concerts will be held in the new Studley
Gymnasium. To these, the students would be admitted for a
purely nominal sum. If there is any truth in this, we feel sure
that many of our readers will rejoice; if, on the contrary, it has
no foundation, at least the possibility of such a scheme recommends
itself to the attention of the Board of Governors as a salutory
step towards improving Dalhousie’s musical status.

In urging the above we have no desire, of course, to cast
innuendoes upon such organizations as the Choral Society and the
Symphony Orchestra. Their aim is eminently laudable, and
_ students who expend energy in serving them, are worthy of copious
commendation. At the same time these groups rarely succeed in
reaching a satisfactory musical standard. And it is music of the
highest type that the undergraduates should have. Let us hope
therefore, that when the gymnasium iscompleted, the University will
see fit to encourage there some outstanding musical performances.
They would undoubted!ly be appreciated, at least by a great many
of the student body. As Frederick Nietzsche, said a long time
ago, “Without music, life would be a mistake’; and without it,
one’s education is essentially imperfect.

THE IMPORTANCE OF INTROSPECTION.

The practice of introspection is one of the most worthwhile
and one of the least cultivated of all human habits. Ever since
the time of the ancient sage who penned the maxim ‘‘know thyself”
it has been continually urged by persons of deep culture. Yet
despite this earnest advocacy, men seem to experience a sort of
physiological resistance when ever they attempt to scrutinize
their own minds. They find the process an extremely difficult
one, and are, therefore, content to palm off as their own opinions
what are merely the current convictions of their friends. Instead
of probing the depths of their intellect, they complacently repeat
the banal beliefs and judgements which they hear others express.
As an eminent writer has said, ‘‘Mankind is like Herculaneum—
covered over with a hard crust, under which the remains of real
individuality lie forgotten. ..the millions know nothing except the
thick lava of habit and repetition.
tell them what they are to think, and they think it.”

In combating the mental! toxicity produced by such a condition
as this, introspection assumes an all-important role. The person
who determinedly sits down with the avowed intention of finding
out just what he thinks or believes about life, must of necessity
ere: the tough crust of conventional opinion, unless,
indeed, he is sunk in the morass of self-persiflage. Many of us,
it is true, find really nothing when we at last succeed in being
honest with ourselves about ourselves. If so, let us frankly admit
the fact, and begin building an new personality on the site we have
cleared. For after all, it of absolutely no consequence what other
people think; this may be of assistance, but it can never be a
Be a bstitute. What each individual has to do, is wrestle mentally

ihe with himself, to discover through introspection the state of his
-_ewn soul, and on such a basis to erect a strong, independent

eee

i 2 he
et
— .

+} iy

7 a hy
nae
eo by i? ‘
Pio: vr 7
ae! ep . ag | fy *
o™ ee é 4 y ¢ ‘
it wae , <¥ eh ati
ee AG: aes - i aye seh? riy i; 4 .
Piast fly a are Ee? OL ¥ ala ae: Roe ‘ rile
Hy ali tL fe a adh sve es 5 be AP ,
ei , ae fi Fy lk: , ~*~. a ? a 1 Ne ‘
= Oo a ee bh “4 MS eee
Fe ; : <n r cer a ey
‘ ie hoy Nae eb L pas

A small section of the people.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COMMENT

Britain Faces the General Tariff.
The Canadian Railway Crisis.

Britain Faces the General Tariff.

The not-unforseen rift in the ranks

of Britain’s National Government on
the ali-important tariff issue at last

seems to be in process of becoming

apparent.

Hitherto there has been

no evidence of substantial disagreePar liament was not called upon
to do a great deal and then was put in
recess. Such differences as have occurred have been settled within the

ment,

walls of Cabinet meetings.

months’ powers to

The six
impose duties

granted to the Board of Trade sailed
through without opposition, for they
were but temporary measures aimed
to prevent a last-minute dumping.
Now the issue of a general tariff has
come to the forefront.

The Conservatives, or at least a
large section of the party, were avowedly determined to go in for tariffs in a

very substantial way. Other groups
in the National majority, and perhaps
Conservatives
presented a front less protectionist in
It was only to be expected
that there should be difficulty in sett
a

character.

remainder

of

the

ing the exact level.

It is reported that {a wholly unprecedented procedure will be followed in
the coming session of Parliament.
direct contravention of the principle of

In

Cabinet solidarity Ministers will, on
this occasion, be permitted to carry
into the House their personal shades of

opinion.

A government measure call
ing for something like a general 10%
tariff will be submitted, but individual
Ministers, as Ministers, will be permitted to speak in opposition to it.
will the great issue be turned over to a
House possessing a ‘‘doctor’s mandate”

to cure the national ills.

Thus

The protec
tionist Conservatives will doubtless
push for a higher rate of duty and with
a prospect of carrying a superior number of the Members with them.
will become of the government measure and the Government behind it
in such event will be matter for con
jecture.

portant session of Parliament.

The Canadian Railway Crisis.

What

It will be an extremely im
In this country Royal Commissions
are frequently saddled with mighty

and manifold tasks.

We venture to

suggest, however, that the task assigned to the recently constituted Commission on Transportation is in point
of sheer difficulty and encrmity quite
the greatest ever issued to a Canadian

Royal Commission.

The Press

hails

the personnel of the Commission as, on

the whole,

notable

and able.

The

public, insofar as it hopes for anything

from a Royal Commission, expects

this latest to do great things.

It is said that those who do not have
constant and intimate contact with
transportation cannot fully appreciate
the seriousness of the Canadian railway

problem.

The laymen, however, would

be very sensible of the inconvenience
if the railway transportation system
suddenly disrupted and_ the
trains which carry his mails, his freight,
and his person ceased to run.
aggregate of personal inconveniences
would mean economic disaster.
collapse of the railways is said to be
the inevitable consequence unless something is done to wipe out the operating
deficits of Canada’s two great railways.
To discover that something is the appointed task of the Commission.

The root of the problem goes back
to the conditions which permitted the
over-railroadization of the country.
Roads were constructed in a boom
fever with a combination of unsound
economic and purely political considerations attached. This led to a
duplication and triplication of lines
and services in areas where the present
population and traffic do not warrant

were

more than the single line.

The
Yet

Three great

lines got themselves into such difficulties that the Government was constrained to take them over in 1919.

Two years later these,

with

other

Government lines were merged in the

great National Railways.

The system

of the nation was finally reduced to
two great roads, the C. N. R., and
the privately-owned Canadian Pacific.

Through

normal

and prosperous

times the Railways apparently were

able to carry on.

was

basis.

competition.

The present crisis

recipitated by general economic
conditions—conditions which have crea
ted railway problems in countries where
the systems rest om a more secure
Both Railways have been forced
to the wall.

Many solutions have been advanced.

These all appear in one way or another
to aim at the eradication of wasteful

The rates of the Cana
dian Railways are fixed by the Railway
Commission, so competition between

them

is in service.

It is generally

agreed that some measure of this
costly competition must be eliminated.
It is further urged that many expensive
political concessions must be made to
give way if the Railways are to be
saved. Amalgamation of the two
roads is suggested, some saying that
the state should take over the Pacific,
others that the National Railways
should be returned to private control.
A variety of intermediate measures is
put forth, involving a central governmental board of control and intricate
systems of bond guarantees to private

bondholders.

other enterprises now en
Canadian Railways shoul

under

separate

Others suggest that
hotel systems, steamship lines and

managements.

ged in by
be> splitoff

Out

of all the tangle some way must be
found to permit the Railways to carry

on.

Commission.

Such is the task of the Royal

 

THE
PASSING BLOW

Desecration at Studley.

College Spirit.

 

Desecration at Studley.

On several occasions in the past the

Gazette has commented on and criticised
the gambling that is being carried on
regularly and daily in the basement of
the Arts building. Without attacking
this practice from a casuistic standpoint
there is one phase of it that, we think,
should be brought to the general attention. Last fall the tables were
removed about which the pokerites
were wont to gather, but this, contrary
to improving the situation (if that was
the object) has introduced a new and
most objectionable feature. It wasnot
long before someone discovered, or
remembered from last year that the
large pictures of past graduating classes that adorn the walls of the basement
could be made to serve a more practical
if less aesthetic purpose; that is, that
one of these old frames supported upon
four pairs of knees made an admirable
card table. Two years ago the same
practice was in vogue, and resulted in
considerable breakage before it was
terminated. Each of he pictures so
used is in imminent danger of receiving
real damage and inasmuch as pictures
are of actual historical interest to the
University they ought to be_ better
protected. Since the authorities can
scarcely countenance gambling on the
Campus, the re-establishment of tables
cannot be suggested as a_ solution.
There remains the alternative of housing the pictures in another building or
of bringing pressure to bear upon the
culpable element. Since the _irresponsibles who compose this element are,
almost as few in number as they are
lacking in a sense of decency, the latter
scheme would probably prove the
more practicable. Whatever plan be
adopted, however, it seems expedient
that the proper authorities take the
matter in hand at once.

 

College Spirit.

The Acadia Athenaeum of Decembe1
was exceedingly kind to the Dalhousie
Gazette. ‘‘It is with more than usual
interest,’ says the Athenaeum Exchange Editor, ‘‘that we read the
official student publication of our
nearest neighbour. We congratulate
“Dal” in her endeavours to place a
real gymnasium on the campus. The
Gazette is a fine weekly. There are
peppy editorials, and the material
that fills the columns of this paper is
characterized by the spirit for a bigger
and better ‘‘Dal.” |

Yet, flattering as the Exchange may
have intended to be, we are compelled
to take exception to his description of
the Gazette. True, we have striven and
are striving for a better Dalhousie, and
in so far as an increased. enrollment
would be compatible with merit, we
should have no objections to seeing
the number of students at the University augmented. It is when the
Exchange item is read in conjunction
with the editorial on page sixty-nine
of the Acadia paper, that we consider
it inapplicable to our weekly. To
what the Athenaeum Editor calls a
college spirit we would give the more
honest name of mob spirit. Heaven
protect us from the College spirit that
is ‘‘ever urging us to yell louder, to
play faster, to work harder.””’ May we
always eschew that levelling of endeavour that induces everyone to start
going every place or leads everybody to do
everything. The Athenaeum Editor to
the contrary, we do call it ‘‘the bunk,”
the worst ‘‘bunk”’ of which an intelligent group of students can be guilty;
and ‘‘hot air’’ is totally inadequate.
This college spirit business, as the
Acadia Editor would have it, is the
very antithesis of education. We do
not believe that it ever held sway. at
Dalhousie; we hope that it never will
but in case the Athenaeum should lead
any Freshman to enter this University
in hope of finding such a college spirit,
we make haste to direct him elsewhere.
That is one way in which we are NOT
striving for a bigger Dalhousie.

Nor have we at any time sought to
write peppy editoiials. We have tried
to attain timeliness and interest and
decently sound reasoning, but we
have never striven after the sensationalism that ‘‘peppy” connates. That is
not one of the functions of a university
publication.

We thank the Editors of the Athenaeum for their kind regards and hope
that our counter criticism will not be
taken amiss; for it is very contrary
to our desires to do anything to disrupt
the good feeling that prevails between
the sister Universities. At the same
time we observe that the Exchange
Editor is evidently quite young, and
certainly in respect to his education
since he is a Junior. The standing of
the editorial writer is not discoverable.
We feel confident however that if
these talented though slightly - misguided journalists continue for another
year or two under the influence of the
more sober Acadians that they will
have as little need as the latter to be
lectured by the Dalhousie Gazette.

s+

Elizabeth Murray spent last weekend with.relatives in Windsor.

Teddy Dorman and Mary Sadler
were overnight visitors in the city last
week. Ted as the guest of Kay Allen,
while Mary stayed with Helen Biden.

Don Stewart entertained in the
reception room last week.
was served about nine o’clock.

Ice -cream|?

FROM OUR
CONTEMPORARIES

Good Works.

Sloppy Co-eds.

Gandhi.

Good Works.

The unemployment situation in Toronto has evidently become very acute.
It is beside the point to question why
so many people crowd into the cities
of a basically agricultural country like
Canada even in times of busines& stress,
The University of Toronto, through the
University Settlement, has taken a
share in the relief of the unemployed
men of the city. Clothing of all sort
are supplied, principally by the students who undoubtedly appreciate the
first-hand proof that there are others
worse off than themselves. A group
of medical undergraduates have taken
upon themselves the task of ministering
to the wants of male unemployed, by
opening University Settlement on Sundays, where the men are fed, and entertained in the billiard room, card
room, library, and lecture room, Eyerything is done to make the men feel
at home, and the patronising air is
banished, The Varsity, which by the
way has become strongly socialistic in
its editorials, says, ‘‘Here is our opportunity to vindicate our principles, to
show the sceptical world that we are
not mere parlour socialists, that our
ideals are worthy of self-sacrifice.’’

Sloppy Co-eds.

The professor of English at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Dr. Robert E. Rogers who two years
ago advised college graduates to be
“snobs,” has come forward again to
announce to a long-suffering world
that the college girl is inclined to be
“sloppy.”’ This word no doubt covers
and includes a multitude of sins, but
the learned doctor does not make
himself entirely clear as to the extent
of the alleged sloppiness. His general
theme is that the more educated the
college girl is, the sloppier she becomes.
Reason—a college graduate seldom has
to use sex appeal in the business world.
As a rule, he says, the man and woman
who are not coilege graduates are

jinclined to be more careful of their

personal appearance. ‘The old-fashioned employer resents sloppiness in the
appearance of his workers; the modern
employer is reconciled to it. He does
not particularly mention a certain
sloppiness of mentality common to
many co-eds which manifests itself
usually in almost ‘total ignorance of
what is happening in the world exterior
to. their own petty little cliques.

Gandhi.

Of Gandhi’s Civil Disobedience campaign in India and the British Government’s attempt to suppress it, every
newspaper and most individuals have
definite opinions on the matter. The
McGill Daily devotes a long editorial
which may be of interest as an expres
sion of student ideas about one of
Britain’s greatest problems to-day.
The‘ Daily’ highly approves of Gandhi’s
arrest, and is thankful that the words
of wisdom so long uttered in vain by
Winston Churchill have been heeded.
Lord Irwin is somewhat belittled for
his lack of ‘‘firmness.” The same
trend of thought of the British Press is
clear from the editorial, the insistence
that India is incapable alone, that the
caste system and the varying religions
and dialects prevent union of any sort
without the firm hand of British rule.
It does not choose ‘‘to discuss the proportions of madness and chicanery
which make up the disbarred barrister
who is agitating for a free India.”
Whatever may be the truth of the
whole matter, it will make interesting
reading fifty years hence to delve into
the estimates and opinions on the
political crises now closing in on the
British Empire. What follies, what
stupidities, we have all been guilty of,
will perhaps then cause the head to
nod of the old man who has lived
through and learned from these days of
world unrest.

——————<—+-—____

Kay Morrell, Lil Fraser, and the
Keniston sisters have joined the Skating Club, and may be seen waltzing
around the Forum at the semi-weekly
sessions.

  
 

‘

 

SPS LS fog AE RES Pe ey ee aR
Be ts ah a Rea
‘ oe i 7 ‘ 7” : re ae
January 27th, 1932

 

PORTRAITS
AND

CARICATURES

 

Frederick Clair MacLellan.

Freddy's best friends couldn’t call
him goodlooking but he certainly has
a lovely disposition. In fact, said
friends call him ‘‘Sunny Jim.” He
entered Dal this year leaving his native
town of Judique with regret, but with
anticipations which have been fully
realized, He was taking Commerce
but was plucked so badly at Christmas
that he changed over to Household
Science. His hobby is interior decorating and the fixtures in the reception
room have his full approval. Don’t
get excited, it was at a French Club
meeting, he couldn't be dragged within
ten feet of a woman.

Freddy is tall, and red haired, with
an honest face. He does interpretative
dancing and has a lovely tenor voice,
perhaps at the best in ‘‘Sweet Adeline.”
He is very talkative and is hail-fellowwell-met to every member of the Phi
Kappa Pi Fraternity.

It has been rumoured around that
he conceals a passion for Louise Fazenda, but we cannot give the details.

Freddy's friends predict great things
for him. He is an ardent Socialist
and we venture to say will leave his
mark on the world—finger prints.
He has a strong craving for publicity
and keeps a scrap book which will
probably go down in History with that
of Elbert Hubbard. It is however,
unfortunate that he does not keep a
diary.

He plays a great game of basketball,
hockey and rugby and will be the next
president of the D. A. A.C. He isa
pledge of the Phi Alpha Mu and is
very popular in his sewing circle. His
favorite girls name is Violet.

Pine Aull Notes

Pine Hill was signally honored on
Wednesday by a visit from Abdullah
Yusuf Ali. Mr. Ali spoke on Religion
in Modern Life, revealing, so we
thought, a conception of religion that
puts to shame much of our theoretical
so-called Christianity. Emphasizing
the importance of education in religion
Mr. Ali in closing said: “Seek in education, not knowledge alone, nor vet a
career—although these may be attained
incidentally—but seek everywhere
what is good and what is true.”

 

Charlie Anderson, coach of Dal’s
basketball team, has come back from
Mt. Allison with a new name. From
now on Charlie’s name is ‘“Galavantin,”’ being, in the language of Philosophy 1, much more connotative
than his regular appellation,

For some time past the dining hall
has been the scene of much flowerv
oratory. His Holiness the Pope and
Mr. Peacock have until recently been
vying for first place, only to have the
laurels swept away by the eloquence
of Gordon Fraser who in his debut
won the applause of his listeners by
his very first utterance: “My Dear
Fellow Students—” We predict a
bright future for the popular Gordon
as well as for his rivals in the art.

The annual Pine Hill “At” Home”
has been tentatively set for Feb. 12.
The “At Home” on the strength of its
past popularity speaks for itself. The
boys from the Hill find it least difficult
to get ‘a woman’’—to use the accepted
parlance of the day—so we drop this
in advance forthe benefit of those aspirants who have not yet begun training
for the strenuous competition. And
by the way, another Pine Hill Dance
is to be held on Feb, 2.

 

The new puzzle craze everyone is
trying: Find the Pine Hill Notes,

K appa Kappa
Sigma

The Kappa

 

Kappa Sigma Sorority
held its weekly meeting on Wednesday
January 20th, 1932. Further plans
and arrangements were made and discussed for the coming installation asthe
Alpha Eta chapter of the Alpha Gamma
—— a which is to take
place during the week-end of

12th., 1932. wanna

SHIRT SALE 
We have divided our stock of shirts into two
groups for clearance.

Values up to $2.50 for $1.49

Values up to $3.50 for $1.98

These shirts are made by Tooke, Forsyth and
Arrow, and are being cleared to make room

for new spring goods.

SHANE’S MEN’S WEAR SHOP

“==<—"-"39 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
   
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
    
 
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
  
  
    
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
 

Rare te .
re ih ‘ aN , 4 # i
re ¥ e P Fi ie
. i e"

  
  

Ey

if server

 


The girls of the Commerce X class
sh to thank Alan Crichton for re2 sting that Prof. Ells repeat his
lecture on ‘‘Index Nos.,” because he|
“knew by the blank looks on the girls’ |
faces that they didn’t know what it was
afl about.”
eo per _ Fat MacKenzie has given up eating
| before going to bed—and why? No,
a you're wrong! There’s a mouse in the
“Phi Rho” pantry.

Nova Scotian Hotel.
Jan. 19, 1932. ©

Me Mar, Pe OD.

1 Vase $50.00.

Public Health Clinic.

Fred MacLellan was giving treatment to a negro woman who kept
muttering
F oe are you swearing?’’ asked
red.

“T’se not swearing, Mr. Doctor, I’se
prayin.”’ ;

}

¢

7
7

Freshettes at the ‘Hall’ want to
know the real reason why Drum Eaton
is giving up parties this year.

Shirreff Hall admirers of Art Patillo
(A. S. P., Jr.) will rejoice to hear that
he is again wearing the coveted ‘“‘frat
pin.”

’

 

Last Sunday morning, having arrived
in church a little early, Observer was
sitting peacefully in his pew when in
came Del Wallace and Fran Huntley
and looked around. “‘Are we going
to this dump?” said Del. ‘Hell, no,

responded her pal, and out they walked
in search of the higher things of life.

 

At the close of the ‘‘Phi Rho’”’ weekly
cribbage tournament, held on Sundays,
between the hours of 2 and 4 a.'m.,
Miller MacKay was crowned champion
of the house. Miller has now another
title to add to his list—the first two of
which are ‘‘Champion Rat-catcher”’
and ‘‘Champion Exam Coach.”

Harvey Sutherland, Phi Kapp football player is looking for an ideal
woman. She must be goodlooking,
must not have more than five plucks,
must play rummy and drink beer from |
a spoon. Those who can fill these
- requirements please get in touch with
Tol Rowley—manager of interfaculty

engagements.

Charlie Anderson plans to have a
championship basketball team. He is
going to coach from his wheel-chair,
and give orders through a megaphone
as well as “Ed” Allen gives them in
Commerce,I. ‘‘Red’’ Sparrow is going
to wheel him about.

: fo te
cree y
a a | ; ;
-.... + Pine Hill reports a Don Juan in our
a: ry ea ee Mackeen Sect her
“telephone the other evening and a
‘masculine voice announced, “This is
-———s Murray MacMillan speaking from Pine
: ei - Bill. “Will you kindly stop those girls
from calling me up all the time and
disturbing me at my work?”

 

Dot Vernon was going to a Choral
Club dinner, “It’s because I take
Music 2,” she explained to her envious
friends. “Well, ” said Kay Morrell,
“T could take Necking 6 with distinction.’ Whereupon Lil Fraser remarked, ‘One unpluckable class that—but
Dixie Pelluet could make it no cinch!
Higher education is a great thing.

 

C. O.T. C. Notes

——
—

The last parade, I am glad to report,
was much better than the one previous; but there is still room for improvement. The plan of giving more
drill periods to those who have not had
them before is certainly a good one.
Most C. O. T. C. units find that their
weakest point is drill, the importance
of it, however, cannot be overemphasized. ‘

The tactical schemes which are
being studied by second year men are
proving interesting, and the amount
of constructive discussion which they
evoke must be gratifying to the instructor. .

A rifle team has been chosen, and a
glance at the list of these marksmen
wiil show that it isindeed a credit to the
corps.

oe ——

Kay Densmore and Isabel Conway
entertained in the First Floor siting
room last week on their respective
birthdays.

 

Gentlemen waiting in the reception
room Saturday night displayed admirable courage in rushing to_ the
rescue of a maiden in distress. Fran
Vassie came down on the floor with a
crash as her ski-boots slipped, but
Don Mahon and Ross Morrison soon
had her on her feet.

| BASKETBALL
YMC, A. Sat., Jan. 30

 

ed
aa

 

a
M
i.

e

Qa

i

Fs a
we
5

q ' (Fs *:
Pe
en 8-4
A 5 ;
' ' +

 

‘

eh th g p. m. Dalhousie vs. Y.M.C.A’
Tren | Intermediate

«17 p. m. St. Johns vs. Wanderers
Swen Intermediate

; st 8 Pp m. Y.M.C.A. vs. mangarers ,

i) t
4

eS) r !
Rew es! Bite cts ve. NLS, Tech.
ek =o pth, Sebte

 

me F

 

vi

  

ey a a ae Sy ih. cian elle at = : Cee a es : 7
as i ; MM ae ar eat ip = te Pi ae Joo ies te el, ‘3 ff BA, pas PA ra ia P
ee ss pg Poe an a 4 4 Fes mn ral, a) iy ofa F mas be - ta a mt se See “_
Cae SMUT ee Seog Maa a oe ORS NB Ra es Oe
5 Bee ee Me nee aS . 7] oe ae ae S okoe re f=" m ? ro
CT ae ae r al ie pas ee ae a in 4 * he , ; ee v crt pane F “3 Pp j ;
Tt se ee! oe 5 if Lyk “2 * J
mi Os 4-7 a ates : Rete . : hw
si a 1 mt, i
ia he 4 “ ma
Pere ee 57! x

The Student Forum

A Column devoted to Comment and Controversy

 

To the Editor,

you published among} Dalhousie Gazette.

ows” an article which | Dear Sir.— ;
criticized the critique writers of the| Rather indignantly I read in your
1931 Year Book. column quite recently the impressions
_ Undoubtedly the criticism was just,| which were created in the youthful
but it would have been more fairly | minds ot the MacGill students selling
directed against the whole system of | magazines in the toutist’s ‘‘Haven of
“critique wiiting,”’ rather than against | Rest.’ It is indeed evident that such
those who spent weeks of their time|unjust impressions of Cape Breton
in the thankless labor of producing a| might be possibly viewed by the amaYear Book, _ teur ‘‘man of the world’’ impersonating

Why anyone accepts the position of |a magazine seller.

“critique editor’ will always be a|_ To state that Inverness is ‘‘a home of
source of wonder to me. Of all stu-| filth, squalor and ignorance tears the
der ts about this college, not excepting | heart of every loyal Cape. Bretoner,
the Editor of the Gazette, he is the |and is such a broad statement as to
most abused. He works the hardest,|be of little value to the person of
spending on an average of three hours|average intelligence. 1 will admit that
a day for two months on this one job;| Inverness isn’t what a few Nova
he receives no thanks and no recogni-|Scotian towns are cracked up to be,
tion of his work except a great deal} but a home-town, you'll agree, to every
of unfavorable criticism. eee holds the keynote to his
esires.

In December he is presented with a] ‘The manner of collecting money
list of some two hundred names, many |from the unwilling and unsuspecting
of whom he has never heard of,\since | victims is an art in itself” as our Mcless than 30% of Dalhousie students] Gill friend states, but it is not aptake part in extra-curricular activities. | preciated by the average resident of a
The next step is to get representatives | mining town in this phase of depression.
of the different faculties to find out the Thus it is little wonder that they
‘best friends’ to do the write-ups of|found themselves in the midst of
these two hundred. Last year’s criti- perhaps not the most select company
que editor had to ask no less than | which we noticed they preferred to that
nine members of the Junior Class} of the elite of the Cape Breton towns.
before she could find one to help out} Although Inverness, like the other
with even a small portion of that] mining towns of the Island is not
lengthy list of men graduating in Arts| considered as one of the beauty spots
& Science. nevertheless it has some assets along

Then, when the biographies are | that line.
handed in, usually a month after the} When you forget the smoke-stacks
appointed time, I wish, Mr. Editor | of the mines your eyes look for Nature’s
that you could read some of those] gifts, the most outstanding of which
“write-ups,’’ written, presumably, by|is the glistening water of the Gulf of
‘best friends,” as you suggested in your | St. Lawrence with its yachts and small
criticism! The original phrases “little steamers assing daily. This the town
known, but’’ etc—appeared in thirty | faces. The best class of people who
seven, “‘quiet and unassuming’’-in|come to Inverness are greatly imfourteen, “‘a violet ‘neath a mossy | pressed by the wonderful sunsets whose
stone’ in two. You would realize rays create a path of glistening gold on
that those whom you consider ‘“‘best | the Gulf.
friends” are by no means reliable.} But what Inverness is most proud ot
Nine, for example, refused to do any | is its wonderful class of people, largely
work, and when asked for pointers, made up of the best class of Scotch
admitted, “Well, there is really nothing and English with a number of French
you can say about him,” and Belgians.

And with that information to go on,| As far as I am able to estimate the
the ‘critique editor” has to write the reception given the boys in Cape
biography himself. Then Mr. Un-|Breton couldn’t be excelled in the
known buys a copy of the Year Book, | province for I must say we had no
runs over the paper to his own name, | intention of ruining our reputation for
and immediately calls up the critique | hospitality on the would-be McGill
editor to tell him just what he thinks | students.
of the Year Book staff in general. — To look for the worst in everything

Why not make everyone responsible | js of no advantage, and to look for the

Dear Editor:—
Two weeks age
your ‘‘Passing Bl

 

for his or her own critique; then that | worst in Cape Breton is of no advangreat number of those “known only in/tage to the magazine sellers on their
the circle in which they move”’ could | future visits.
find someone in that circle whom he
considered most enone to nce his
characterization; if he squeezed lemons N. Cl b
for the football team or bought confetti ewman Lu
for a Pinehill dance let him put it in. pe, ;
Then at least be could blame himself} During the university hour of C.H.N.
if he didn’t like his “write-up.” S. on Christmas night the Newman,
Or better still, why not get away| Club of Dalhousie presented a dramafrom the type of critique which suggests | tized version of ‘‘The Other Wise Man”’
a High School Magazine, and follow|by Henry Van Dyke, under the directhe example of the University of Toron- | tion of Mr. P. J. Hanifen. The players
to which omits everything personal| who were introduced. by Professor
and gives only the home _address, Mercer were—Richard Donahue, Bob
faculty, interests, and societies of] Donahue, Wilfred Dyer, Mary Duggan
which each graduate is a member, and Victor Oland.
However, best wishes to Mr. MaclIn- On Thursday night last the Club
tosh and his assistants. began its regular Badminton nights at
Yours sincerely, St. Mary's Hall. As many as possible
: are asked to attend so that both TueMember of ’31 Year Book Staff.}day and Thursday nights may be
taken.

—_—_+--e—__—_—_—_
 

The quarantine has been lifted—in
other words the chicken-pox has run

its course and once more songs, in two . A M D Id

languages, will echo down ane, bale e e Cc ona

at the Choral Club and La Cercle

Francaise resume their interrupted TOBACCONIST

aa rte Smokers Requisites of every
description

 

A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

21 Spring Garden Road

Two men talking
on a rain:

 

 

 

 

 
 

WALKER, ING.

[think I'l move over
your way. What is
the mos yeas ate

  

hing in your city?
(ANSWER)

. 4

        
         
   
   
     
   
   
     
        
  
 

I am sure you will be
more than interested in
a visit to

-PHINNEYS

Sporting Goods
Department
You will find there the very
finest line of Sporting Goods

in the city. Everything for the
Sportsman and Athlete.

SSS

r

—

ARSSS. Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.
FAX, N.S.

 
 

}

7 es i P
ee
* Po} % f : re é
Bee ws 3s int ab Diets
oa) eel Sas Rad ya i Nay fin <4, i ot
~ at ff i “ 5 an \ Nea” se a Livia : i.
el ‘etx re > mre ae a tee, 4a “9 a alta i ae
eh bie a iE dik f n VISAGE 7 Oee a eye 1, /
aT a ay abit at be) ii ea TO hae .
eR ra? fe eee Vie mitts § ‘ em ek oe j Pa 1
71 OF a oat » a Oh * Beit > é ee a ‘ hs 4
aoe tt aw dae ea, hee peed, Ohh ot wine a

 

     
   
  
    
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
    
    
 
 
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
     
     
   
 
 
 
 
  
      
     
       
    

 

   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Gets Under Way

Plans are being completed and every
effort is being made by the business
management to make this Year Book
a financial success. As yet arrangements are only tentative and no definite
statement can be given. However,
Business Manager, Bob Brown hopes
to be able to put the book on sale at a
figure within the reach of every student.

In the past business manager's have
always been confronted with the
attitude of the students that the
Year Book is principally for the graduating classes. This has limited the sale
and made a higher price a necessary
consequence. The student should try
to realize that the Year Book is his
reference for future years—his record
of Dalhousie ‘“‘in his day.’’ If it was
regarded as such the sale would be
increased tremenduously and the price
of each individual copy considerably
lowered.

Not only has this deplorab!2 attitude
kept the price higher than it otherwise
would be but experience has taught
that allowance must be made for the
failure of many students to fulfill
their pledges to buy hooks. Each
student should realize when he signs
the papers of agreement of sale that if

he fails to fulfill his obligation someone George!

must pay. These papers will soon be
circulated among you. Sign if you
want the book. The price will be
reasonable—three dollars at the most.
But don’t sign if you have no intention
of taking a copy. Remember the Year
Book is your book—the students’ book
—and do your part, no matter how
small it may be, to make it a success.

 

 

Dal Ring Chosen

The Student’s Council, at its regular |
meeting held Tuesday, Jan. 19, among
other items of business, adopted the
Arts '85 ring as the official Dalhousie
ring.

This isa 14 Karat, square shouldered
ring, mounted with the Dalhousie
Crest; and from now on it will be the
only recognized ring of the University.
Great credit is due the Freshman year,
especially John Rowley, for choosing
such a splendid design, and having it
recognized by the Council.

They are to sell at $5.50 and can be
ordered from the executive of the
Freshman Class or from any member
of the Students’ Council. See this
ring at Birk’s: it is well worth your
while to own one. There has been a
good demand for them so far—but
get yours NOW. It is a ring to be
proud of.

 

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments
and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

No Mistake

You will make*no mistake
in asking friends to dine,
lunch or have tea with you
at ‘*The Green’’ where
every effort is made to give
satisfactory service

 

The Green Lantern

 

 

 

i Winter-Burns, Ltd.

SPECIAL PRICES

FOR

JANUARY

In all lines of Clothing and Furnish
 

ings including Society Brand Clothes

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

439 BARRINGTON STREET.
—It’s the cut of your clothes that counis—

 

 

 

 

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES

IN
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.

Write Or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

he

 

Holds

Splendid Meeting

Thursday, Jan. 21, the Commerce
Society held its biggest and best meeting. Biggest because nearly 50 members were present; best because never
did a group of people have a more
educating—and uproarious time.

We extent our thanks to Don Archibald for reading such an interesting
paper on “Short Selling.” Lively
discussion on this topic lasted nearly
three quarters of an hour; and, as it
often happens, everything from Bridge
to the Gold Standard was discussed.
Prof. Ells held forth very illuminatingly
on ‘the bucket shop;” but the real
“cream in the coffee’? was when Jimmy
MacIntosh wanted to know why
business men had to wear vests in the
summer time. Despite Prof. Ells’
question as to the legality of such a
law, Mr. MacIntosh put the motion
that business men should not have to
wear vests in the summer time. The
ayes won by three groans.

Ice cream and wafers added just
that needed touch to make it a glorious
evening. We know that with such a
capable President, the Commerce Society will assume its rightful niche in the
Dalhousie Hall of Fame. Congrats
 

        
       

Musie in all Branches.

Principal.

 

Leather Goods

Trunks
Bags and Luggage of

Portfolios,

all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

CHOCOLATES

Halifax Ladies College

Conservatory of Music

Teacher’s Certificate. __ 1
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.

MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A.,

 

 

cw a me 1 es
' y AY

 

Page'Three

[Year Book Plan |Commerce Society; Fraternity News

Monday evening, Jan. 18th, Phi
Rho Sigma entertained once more at
their home on Spring Garden Road
Jimmie Sadler and his boys overdid
themselves and their music was “par
excellence.”” At 11.80 the usual refreshments were served to the hungry
dancers. 1.30 came all too soon—but
Phi Rho had once again scored a
success. The Fraternity extends their
sincere thanks to Dr. and Mrs. Colwell for graciously acting as host and
hostess.

Among the out of town guests who
will attend the Annual Dance and
Meeting of Phi Kappa Pi Fraternity
are, Dr. and Mrs. Charles Baxter,
Moncton; Dr. and Mrs. George MacLeod, New Waterford; Dr. and Mrs,
Ronald Forbes, Kentville; Misses Frances Beatteay and Fran Foster of St.
John, N. B., and Dr. and Mrs. Charles
Sullivan, Stellarton, N. S.

Harvey Sutherland and Lee Pllanach
are convening a committee to make
preparations for the Annual Dance on
Feb. 5th. Dean and Mrs. Sydney
Smith have graciously consented to
act as chaperones. Hal Connor is in
charge of the Banquet to be held at
the Nova Scotian the following night.
In all, it promises to be a gala week for
Phi Kappa Pi.

 

     

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Household Science: Teacher's
and Dietician’s Certificate.

Graduation Diploma.

MR. HARRY DEAN,

Director of Conservatory

 

| YELLOW CARB

LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours

Two travel for same as one,

More than two, 20 cents extra. |

Covers up to six. |

 

 

 

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

a F

 

 

pa Aes iis ~~
 
  

= Se a
* at a * =
ee a pe :
oct. ei
‘ a at

e

 

 

 

Pe eke is possible that no games will be
oe in the Intercollegiate Hockey
‘that’ Tech will be spending the.r energies and time im writ.ng exams.

_ Charlie took things easy in the game

Tigers Trim

MacRae and Bauld Star

How-| Dalhousie Tigers signalized the openever, it may be that the scheduled| ing of the Halifax basketball league by
game will be carried out on Thursday | sc oring a win over the strong Y.M.C.A.

ight at Dal was to meet | aggregation by a score of 35 to 30 in |

e this week, owing to the fact)

 
 

night at the Forum.
e's, and Tech to battle St. Mary’s| game staged on the Y floor Saturday
| evening. Despite the fact that the

and if a postponement is decided upon,

it is likely that the schedule will be} game was somewhat roughly contested, ; by a score of 22 to 21.

pushed back a week.

it lacked nothing in thrills and fast
plays, and the yellow and black had

St. Mary’s now lead the league with|to extend themselves to gain their
two victories, one each over Dal and| margin of victory, the score being 20
King’s, with Dal and Tech tied for) to 16 at the close of the first half, and
second place, and Knig’s in the cellar| Dal scoring 15, Y 14 in the closing
position. Although the Tigers lost by} session. The Y team came up almost
a score of 4 to 1 to the Saints, it was|}on even terms with Dal when they
by no means indciative of the Pe made the score 28 to 28 with five
and nobody wll be surprised 1f Dal| minutes to go, and only a fast rally by
turns the tables when they clash with|the Tigers brought their margin to
St. Mary’s in their second game. Un-|33 to 30. MacRae, who played a fine
questionably the championship of the] game, succeeded in caging Dal’s final
league will go either to St. Mary’sorthe| basket with little more than two
Tigers, as the other two teams in the| minutes to go, and the Tigers staved
league, though putting up good opposi- | off the final rallies of the Y with diffition, are hardly expected to go much}culty but managed to maintain their
further. five-point lead.
Features of the game were the fine
playing of Don MacRae and Bauld,
a Freshman hailing from Halifax
Academy playing his first senior game,
for the Tigers, and the showing made
by Hill and Goudey, former Acadia
star, for the Y. Bauld and Goudey
led the point scoring, each gathering
ten for his team, while MacRae was
a close third with nine points. Hill
caged four baskets for the Y fora
total of eight.

The first half was evenly contested
d|until the last five minutes, when Dal

. : a4g -ith | broke a 10-10 deadlokc to take a lead of
ee Bee ea: ee a dors 20 to 16 asthe halfended. Both teams
api pest ie ictaihed injuries to his started in by shooting wildly, but after
shoulder in football last fall that were |@ few minutes settled down to better

: i cetball, basketball, and for the first game. of
ree eee ee the season it was a fairly good exhibi
tion, lacking the smoothness of late
The line-up andsum
 

Dal Tigers, champions of the Halifax
basket league last year, showed flashes
of championship form in winning the
first game of the league Saturday night
over the Y. With the backbone of
last season's team practically intact in
Anderson, Davidson, MacRae and
Fairstein, the Tigers have more than
an even chance to win the title again

_ this year.

 

Dal sport followers were heartene

Saturday night, but at times showed;
up well, and as the season progresses ee et
it is expected that he will return to his mary tollow:

old form. Dalhousie—

Guards, Anderson (4), Handler (2)

The showing made by a newcomer Kennedy (2), Clark; Forwards, Mac
Oe ere eae ce. the ers Rae (9), Davidson (5), Fairstein (3),
prise of the basketball game Saturday

Bauld (10), O’Brien. Total 35.
night. Bauld collected in all - v.M.c A_

Guards, Hill (8), Young (3), Smith
(4) Oxley; Forwards, Beazley (3),
Goudey (10), Hamilton, Fordham (1),
Worsley (1), Taussau. Total 30. |

Regan and Sperry refereed  satisfactorily.

| GARRICK

ints, high scorer for the game, an
if he keeps that up, he will be a real
addition ‘to the Tigers’ team.

 

   
      
 
     
       
     
     
      
   
 
   
 
   
     
     
     
    
  
   
   
 
   
 

  

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

‘ Optometrist and Optician
-Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

 

 

  

   

 

ecrenase ge THE |

po — Garrick Players

y ININIE R < OM PRESENT
WINNERS START Wed-Thur-Fri-Sat.

 

Jan. 27-28-29-30.

“Cappy Ricks’

Matinee Sat. Afternoon
Week of Feb. Ist to 6th.

“HIS BROTHERS
WIFE”

A COMEDY DRAMA

EVEN: NGS 35c. to 75c.
AFTERNOONS 35c.

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

 

Satisfy Your
Taste For

Expensive
Clothes

But Pay Only

$35.00

If you feel that your old habit of paying
$60.00 for a suit of clothes is a little out
ot step with the times, try paying $35.00,
buy the Birkdale.

You will still be satisfying your taste for
expensive clothes....and the chances are
you'll be just as impressed, if not more
so, with the Birkdale at $35.00 than any
suit you ever bought at $60.00

Come in today—this popular EATON
line offers a very inreresting assortment
of smart cloths for your choice.

Bg. fit assured—a type for every

Birkdale

1 Trouser Suit...$35.00.

MEN’S CLOTHING DEPARTMENT
EATON’S Main Floor

TONC? |

    

Y.M.C. A.

 

\Interfaculty Sport

 

BASKETBALL

In an exciting game staged recently,
Theoiogs won a closely fought battle
McSween fur

and that a large number of persogal|the Theologs and Musgrave for the
fouls were handed out by the referees, | Freshmen wete the high scorers.

In the second game, the Profs deteated Commerce by a wide margin, 39
to 22. Borden Stoddard and Professor Ells turned in a fine game tor the
lesers and winners respectively.

In the third game of the night, Law
defeated Arts, with Portroy of Arts,
and Matheson of Law being outstand
ng.

 

HOCKEY

Engineers defeated Freshmen in a
game staged at the Furum on Saturday
afternoon, while Law was losing to
Arts and Science by a score of one to
nil. In the third game scheduled in
the interfaculty hockey Saturady,
Dents failed to turn up fur their game,
which was claimed by their opponents
Commerce.

Engineers showed strength in winning over Freshmen by a score of 4 to 1,
Ferguson, Covert, Harries and Christies
tallying for Engineers, and Cameron
for Freshmen. The line-up:

Engineers—Goal, Hawboldt; Covert, Corkum, Christie, Harries, Akin,
Elkin, Rood.

Freshmen—Goal, Theakston; Cameron, Proctor, Forbes, Lawrence, Healy,
Campbell, McDonald.

Law—Goal, Smith; Grant, Stewart,
Hicks, LeBrun, Healy.

BOWLING

Commerce dropped all five points
to the Profs in a regular league match,
the score being 1118 to 959. McDonald of the Profs team was high man,
with a three-string total of 297.

In Section ‘'C’’ Meds defeated
Theologs by a margin of 24 pins, winning four points to the Theologs’ one.
The score was 1004 to 985.

In a postponed match, Engineers
won three pcints to Meds’ two by a
score of 1058 to 1048 in a game that
was as Close as the score indicates.

Theologs won five points, Engineers
none, in their recent match, which
resulted in a total score of 1018 to 994.

Freshmen woh a three-point margin
over Dents, the score being 1036 to 992.

 

Literary Club

(Continued from page 1)

what pressure is brought to bear upon | business will be transacted.

them. There are other minor reasons
of course but never has there been a
case of anyone being refused for any
personal reason, as may have been
thought in the past.

Midlothian will now retreat once
more into obscurity but first let the
Society thank those who have read
this for their attention and for the
opportunity to make theiracquaintance
and to explain itself, believing as it
does that it is very much misunderstood. In other words, being composed
of women, it is collectively like alj
women, long-suffering and silent, alone.
All a martyr to the cause. Again,
thank you.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

cleansed world; black and white, the
trees are etched against a grey wash of
sky; the field lies quiet, unbroken.
The skiiers come easily, swiftly, in long
Indian file they glide into the open.
The slithering rasp of polished wood
on rough crust, the thin screech
poles disturb the quiet trees,
vaguely they toss against the sky.
White clouds wave raggedly and the
stars are wan and very far. A lingering wind sweeps up the loose snow
and swirls it fretfully over the narrow
track,

The hill slides away to lose itself in
the tree-roofed distance. A short run,
then down, down into the black depth
below. The shadows break and fade,
and always the dead whiteness stretches
on. No, the jump—a quick tenseness,
the spring, a brief, glorious moment
in the air, an easy landing and the run
is Over.

A long climb back, the happy camarad e of laughing voices. Down aga'n
The full sharp sting of flying snow on
flushed cheeks.

A tall pine wavers, its heavily bur
dened branches shiver, a fine most of |Sec. A. Mon. Jan.
se ee

blown snow veils it. Then in that
silence of wind torn trees, there is a

sharp crack, and with awful solemnity | Sec,
and infinite weariness, the pine falls. | See.
The sky clears, pale stars appear, and | Sec,

a slender crescent moon is russet gold
in the hazy west.

 

Gymnasium Notes

Basketball.
Interfaculty schedule for Sat. Jan.
30th.
2 P. M.—Profs vs. Dentistry.
3 P. M.—Medicine vs. Law.
4 P. M.—Theology vs. Engineers,

Interfaculty Bowling (schedule for

week):

Mon. Jan. 29th.—7 p. m.
vs. Arts & Science.

9 p. m.—Law vs. Dental.

Wed. Jan. 27th.—7 p.
merce vs. Prof’s.

9 p. m.—Law vs. Freshmen.

Fri. Jan. 29th.—7 p. m.—Engineers
vs. Medicine.

9 p. m.—Arts vs. Commerce.

Professors

m.—Com
Bowling Alleys open for general use
(Following periods), Mon. Wed.
& Sat. afternoons 2 until6 p.m.

Badminton at St. Mary’s Upper Gym.
Wed. & Fri. evening 7-10.30 p, m.
Sat. afternoon 2-6 p. m. (Shuttlecocks & Rackets on hand for general
use).

Boxing Meeting.

A general meeting of the students
interested in boxing will be held on
Wed. evening Jan. 27th, at 8 p. m.
in the St. Mary’s Upper Gym, a large
turnout is requested as important

Sodales
Debate
This

Evening

“BASKETBALL.’.

Y.M.C. A. Saturday, Jan. 30

6 p.m. DALHOUSIE vs Y. M. C.A. Inter.

7 p. m.
8 p. m..

ST. JOHN’S vs WANDERERS,
Y. M. C. A. vs WANDERERS,

Inter.
Senior

9 p.m. DALHOUSIE vs N.S. TECH, Senior

General Admission 25c

e;

eh f,
mai

 

The Nova’ Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

Rl he ch ects

Reserved 35c

  
  
   
   
 
    

  
       
  

 
  

of | gitls, ;
and | Practice were victorious in both senior

J. C.; M. Heatley, S. C.; E. Turner, G.;

 

See ee

January 27th, 1932

Notice

Extemporaneous Debate tonight at
7.30 in the Munro Room.

Debating trials for selection of Dal
teams to meet the University of St.
Francis Xavier and an all-Canadian
team, Feb. Ist. at 7.830 in the Munro
Room,

‘Skiing at Night |Dal
In Basketba ll Tilt Stillness, the soft stillness of a storm
Co-eds Lose
to CY’

Last Monday night in the new
Y. W. C. A. building the girls’ Halifax
senior and intermediate basketbal
leagues got under way with two games
between the Dalhousie Co-eds and the
girls of the ““Y”. The  Y. W. C. A.
showing the result of much

 

 

 

K. Doyle, G.

Dalhousie.—K. MacKay, F.;
Weil, Fs P. Cann; J. C.- EB.
S. C.: B. Webster, G.: P.
H. Remillard, G.

D.
Saunderson,
and intermediate games. ‘The scores MacKay, G,;
were 48-8 in the former and 18-1 in the

latter encounter In the intermediate game Nancy

cel , . : ‘orrest scorec 2 , moint fc al
In the senior game, Kay Flemming, Forrest suored the only point for Dal

the ‘‘Y’’ centre was usually successful housie when awarded a foul shot.
4 as b . or ® o— z

in securing the tip-off, and the for- Jessie Sweet led the Y scorers. Rene

Matheson and Nancy Forrest were preeminent among the Co-eds.
x -Jessie Sweet, F.;

Rigby, F.; R. Vaughan, S. C.; D.
Munro, J. C.; M. Batt, G.; P. Miller, G.

wards, Margaret Dobson (captain) and
Margaret MacDonald netted the ball
regularly. Elizabeth Saunderson, hard
working captain, and P. Cann and H.

——_———_ ee eee

Remillard were outstanding in the guh 7. y tohe ipist=
Dalhousie quintette. j oe te a B oe ois Ba; E.
Y. W. C. A.—Margaret Dobson, F.; Walle — ] ies - He vey ons . “4 a
ot é EF eet Sane aimer, ff, Cl £- ewatt, -G.; E.

M. MacDonald, F.; Kay Flemming, Athurson, G.;: R. Matheson, G.

 

 

Interfaculty Bowling Schedule

Second Round.

25th. Law vs. Dental. 9-11
Sec. A; 27th. Law vs. Freshmen. 9-1] *!
Sec, C. Fri ‘« 29th. Engineers vs. Medicine. Cm AG a me
Bie. ¥ ‘© Arts vs. Professors. “4.9.4,
C. Mon. Feb. Ist. Medicine vs. Theology. ‘ 7.9 *
Bay Ni ‘(Freshmen vs. Dental. 9-1] «
Sec. C. Wed ‘‘ 8rd. Engineers vs. Theology. ‘LQ &
eee. re “4 ‘* Professors vs. Commerce. 9-11 *
Third Round.
Sec. A. Fri. Feb. 5th. Law vs. Dental. ie i eT ee
SOC aes . ‘* Commerce vs. Arts. e OF}, #
Sec. C. Mon. 8th. Engineers vs. Medicine. ea 2
Set ‘* .Law vs. Freshmen. i Rie
Sec. B. Wed. 10th. Arts vs. Professors. Et. TG ne
sec: Ci ‘i = Medicine vs. Theology. re Qa
Sec. A. Fri. ‘* 12th. Freshmen vs. Dental. 6 RB 4
mee fy.” 6 1 ‘* Engineers vs. Theology. Cs elite!
Sec. B. Mon. ‘* 15th. Professors vs. Commerce. Cee ae ae
NOTE:—Winner of Single-string,—1 pt.

High-score in three-strings,—2 pts.

Four men per team.

Three strings per game. ;

Sectidnal winners to play-off in final.

Games to commence on time, any team without full number of men
must commence play and count the lowest individual score of opponent,
to total string score.

Play-off schedule will be posted later.

CASINO

Fri.-Sat.
January 29-30

“THE TIP OFF”

with
EDDIE QUILLAN
ROBERT ARMSTRONG

 

 

 

 

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

We have on hand a small lot
of special Dal Ring Books to
sell at 30c. Having purchased
re-fills for these at cost price

GINGER ROGERS we are in a position to sell......
Monday to Wednesday 2 for 15ce. The paper is aM bond
Feb, 1-2-3 stock cf excellent quality, for

which students will find many
uses and real value at the
price offered.

“FALSE
MADONNA”

with
KAY FRANCIS
WILLIAM BOYD

See our new stock of
HYDE PARK PIPES

Improved shapes and quality

 

 

 

 

 

Zive’s February

 

Farniture Sale

 

is now in full swing !

 

The Store is thronged with
Eager Shoppers from early
morning until closing time.

Are you getting your share

of the Exceptional Values now
now being offered ?

 

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy Homes ”’
448-450 Barrington St.

Halifax, ~ - > Canada.
} ‘ ut. ‘ « |
Site a elle Salt in Snel ici i a aalil

 
