 

}

YOu beth
~ Dalhousie

 

Flying
Club is Organized

 

Orton Hewat

_ Elected President

or
u

   
 
 
  
      

’

¥

_ as a whole.

.

 Ex-Premier

in April and will be carried on right

_ passively to come to our supper, meeting. +It won’t cost you anything to
find out just what a wonderful pro
Hee
Ry =

Rt. Hon. W. L. MacKenzie King,

a

 

Program mapped out for Year.

Tuesday evening, Nov. 17, nearly
twenty-five boys keenly interested in
aviation met in the Munro Room to
elect their officers and plan a program
for the coming year. The Dalhousie
Flying Club now exists as an active
anization in the University and
ging from the interest being shown,
e Club is already a success. |
It could hardly be otherwise with
such a splendid executive. Orton
Hewat was unanimously elected President, Vice Pres., Lindy Rood; Secty.,
Gordon Elkins, Treas., Fred Morrison,
The committee of non licensed members is made up of Vince Kelleher, Ed

‘Higgins, Frank Goudge and H. M.
Kendall. Don Saunders was heartily

-yoted the Honorary President, Instructor, and general advisor of the
Club.

Plans are being made to hold a
supper meeting in the very near future
of all interested students. By that
time the membership committee will
have drawn up a constitution and set
of by-laws to be approved by the club
This will be the last
meeting before Xmas; but ground
school lectures will be started on Feb.
1, and will be continued one night a
week for two months. These lectures
will be given to the members of the
Club only by Don Saunders and other
authorities. Actual flying will begin

through the summer.
We want every person (male or
female) who is interested actively or

made to aviation
by Don Saunders.
nm ye m ee Set,
are only too gla
ms and plans of the

is being

 
  
 
 
 

   

s 2 TUN
pb ——ft fH

in the ai

     
 
 

There is absolutely no obligation.

~~ ——,s Watch for the notice of our next

meeting. »

 

Gives Talk

At 12 o’clock last Wednesday the

 

‘addressed the members and a few
ests of the Round Table Club of
alhousie and King’s. Owing to the

pressure of Mr. Kings engagements It

was not known until a late period

whether the meeting would be a

certainty, but it eventually materia
liazed in the committee room of the

Murray Homestead. After meeting

those present, Mr. King gave a short

and informal talk. Guests of theclub
on this occasion included, besides Mr.

King, President Stanley, Mr. G. Fred

Pearson, Chairman of the Board of

Governors, Mr. Angus L. MacDonald,

Liberal Leader in Nova Scotia and

lecturer in the Law School, Professor

Vincent MacDonald and Professor

James MacDonald.

Law Society
Meets

Last Thursday morning at 11 o’clock
the Law Society met in the Moot Court
Room of the Forrest Building. The
president, Mr. Don Grant, occupied
the chair. he first business called
was a report from the Committee in
charge of the Law dance that was
held at the Nova Scotian Hotel on
November sixth. Mr. R. Donahoe,
the chairman of the committee, reported that the function had been financailly a very great success. To the
social success of the dance, all present
at the meeting, who had attended
the dance testified, and a vote of thanks
and congratulations was extended by
the Law Society to its members,
Donahoe, Coleman and Jost. The
next item of discussion was the annual
Law banquet. Three suggestions were
ut forward, that the banquet be held
the following Saturday night; that it
be held immediately after examinations,
and that it be held after Christmas.
A motion embodying the last sugestion found most favour in the meet
ing. It was decided to make the payment of the society dues a pre-rejuisite to participation. At this point
Mr. Longley strolled into the meeting
and demanded to know why he didn’t
hhave a class. It was decided to send

BY

flowers to Magistrate Doty, a lecturer

 

- at the Law School who is at present ill

| the Infirmary. This matter was
left with the executive. On motion

, meeting adjourned.

®

he |
to

ing Club. Don’t be bashful

 

 

     

| I. O. D. E. Scholar

GERALDINE SIMMS

 

Alliance

Francaise

The first reunion of the Alliance
Francaise for the coming winter took
lace on Wednesday evening, NovemBer 18, at the Technical College. Prof.
Dufau opened by speaking of the
Alliance as an organization. It was
not founded, he said, for a few patriotic French people, but is an establishment for the study and appreciation of French Literature and
art. It exists in many countries, and

‘although there are similar clubs for

German, Italian or Spanish culture,
the Alliance franciase seems to be the

largest and best known. We find it in
Engiand, Canada, the United States,

Argentia, Spain, Germany, in ndinavia and many more. M. Dufau
concluded by reading some extracts
from a letter of Prof. Gautheron, the
president, whois on leave of absence in
France. .

Prof. Martin, the leading speaker
for the evening spoke on the ‘Influence
of French Literature on Peace and
War.’”’ One very striking example
he showed us from Voltaire was a
ware between two armies of cats. The
cats were fighting fiercely, biting and
scratching the field was covered with
tur and blood. Someone comes up
to ask a combatant why he is nee
“For glory,” replies the cat. ats
are supplied with natural weapons,
thus we see man must manufacture
them and learn how to use them.

Prof. Dufau gave next an illustrated

lecture on Spain, which was the lastitem,

Official Student Pab

fifteen

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 25th, 1931.

A Grisly Murder Tale

By a New Feature Writer

 

Editor’s Foreword: So insistent has
been the demand for more stories like
those that came last year from the
pen of R. G., that the editor has been
at some pains to satisfy their demand.
R. G. graduated last year, and has
joined the editorial staff of “Thunder.”
However, the services of the noted
novelist, Lotto D. Bunk have been
secured. For his first story, Mr.
Bunk disclaims all originality and
admits indebtedness to anybody who
who claims it. He first heard this
story froma Man from Acadia. In his
next feature Mr. Bunk will tell about
the Awful Liar he met on Water St.
and how he (the Awful Liar) made
$2,000,000,000 on the diamond markct.

When, at six o’clock of the day before Christmas Eve the Cannonball

| Express rolled into Squash Junction,

the light snow flurry that had begun
in Halifax at two o'clock had grown
into a howling blizzard. Already the
straggling little Main Street had lost
its identity under the obliterating
deluge of sudden white, and presented,
from the cow pasture into which it
degenerated at one end to the tiny
station house into which it ran at the
other, a scene of the utmost desolation.
This desolation was accentuated rather
than releived by several very dim
and far spaced lights.

Expelled from the cosy warmth of
the Pullman and separated from the
hilarious bunch of Dalhousians who
were carrying into the chill of the night
and the bleakness of the countryside
their own atmosphere of good cheer,
the spirits of Ralph Freeman, slumped
to a level appropriate to the dreariness
of his new surroundings.

The Christmas holidays in Squash
Junction had never been a period of
much festivity; this year they promised
to sound the depths of boredom.
Because he had not intended to come
down until the next morning, and had
written home his intention, no one

was at the station to meet him, With

club-bag and suit case he plodded
through the deep sticky snow and in
minutes time reached the
gaunt old house that ever since he
could remember had been home to
him and his father. As Hingo turned
in at the old gate, a horse was drawing
out a light sleigh in which sat a man
wrapped in furs. He stopped the
horse on recognising Ralph. They
shook hands. P

“But I thought you weren’t coming
down until tomorrow.”

“They called of an exam,”

“T’'m off on an emergency call. A
man cut himself in the woods. Afraid
1’ll be late. See you in the morning.”

The horse threw his weight into
the traces. The cutter was jerked
away, and as it swung into the road
in a cloud of snow dust the doctor
cried back:

 

Scrapping the

Citadel Gun

By Justin L. Dubinsky.

 

The purpose of this article is to reply
briefly to the thoroughly unwarranted
and highly misrepresentative editorial
attack made in the columns of the
Gazette on one of the institutions in
the university, viz. the C.O.T.C. In
former years, contributors wishing to
correct an ill-founded statement made
by the occupant of the editorial chair
of this paper were privileged to keep
before them the personality of the author
and were thus the better able to direct
their remarks on the matter in question.
Unfortunately this opportunity is not
to be had this year, in that the periodical is governed under a scheme of
divided responsibility, with the result
that students are left more or less in
the dark as to where responsibility
lies at any given time and to whom
remarks, they may wish to make, are
to be directed. There is however no
need in the present instance to deal
with personalities and one may address
one self to the language employed.

As others more intimately associated
with the C. O. T. C. than the present
writer have already replied it will not
be necessary to repeat what they have
said. Says the editorial comment—”’
.... Within Dalhousie’s very walls there
is an institution whose underlying
principle is diametrically opposed to

acifism, whose ultimate aim is militaristic and which to our mind is fundamentally out of place at a university.
We refer to the C. O. T. C."" No utterance could be more incorrect, misleading and void of factual support.
The C. O. T. C. is not opposed to
pacifist doctrines—on the contrary,
the cause of peace finds in this organization, created as it has been by those
who have gone through the great conflagration, one of its staunchest pillars,
and justly so. For though the world

 

at large may forget—these men who
who have survived will have seared
forever on their minds the memory ot
those four and a halt years of madness,
the memory of the millions slain in
actual battle and the thousands dying
later as a result thereof. They know
what it is to rebuild a broken life anew.
What blatant+and idle chatter it is
that speaks of a desire on the part of
these tor a repetition of that Hell.

The C. O. T. C. isa military organization given its being and life-blcod by
theose who passed through the ‘‘mill’”,
but it is not militaristic. ‘‘We have a
sneaking suspicién that a considerable
amount of sophistry is needed for their
harmonization” reads the article, as It
refers to the pacifistic efforts of those
actively associated with the C.O. T. C.
Were that sneaking suspicion to give
way to some wholesome and rational
thinking, the writer would realize that
it is he who says the world is now
pacpares for peace is guilty of sop
istory and not he who gives of his
efforts towards the establishment of
world-peace, yet knows that complete
defencelessness is still suicidal.

A columnist in the same issue asks :-—
Can this be Japan the preacher of
peace? Startling events have been
taking place in the last few weeks.
While the world is observing Remembrance Day services, the _newspapers headline the gloom in Geneva
and the crisis in Manchuria. Japan,
to use Sir Arthur Currie’s expression
has broken her word, prostituted her
pledge and put her fingers to her nose
at the League of Nations. I used the
word startling but tt was so only for
the world at large and not to the Japs
and Chinese. The trouble for them
has been of a long and deep-seated
nature and the diseased parts have

(Continued on page 4.)

“There’s a dance in the schoolhouse
tonight.”’

In the doctor's den a grate fire was
burning. The old housekeeper brought
in tea. After he had eaten he smoked
a cigarette while she cleaned away the
dishes and posted him, privileged old
lady that she was, on all the loca
news. She paused, in taking out the
tray to ask, if the finality of his tone

could be deemed consistent with a
question.

“You'll be going to the dance tonight-"’ And then, when his face
showed his uncertainty, ‘“‘Oh, sure
you'll be going. Mary Grant will be
there. She’s been home these two
weeks. You'll have a good time.”

At nine o'clock he decided to go to
the dance, nor did he try to conceal
from himself that the deciding factor
was Mary Grant. As he trudged
through the ever deepening snow and
from time to time plunged into drifts
that were higher than his waist his
thoughts reverted to their long friendship. He remembered a winter night
five years ago, before he had ever gone
up to Dalhousie. He had been taking
Mary to a dance in the same little
schoolhouse. The horse had shied at a
piece of paper that the wind had
carried across the road and he and
Mary found themselves almost totally
submerged in a great bank. His
memory reverted to other adventures
they had had together and Ralph
found himself comparing Mary to the
College girls of his acquaintance. A
comparsion he thought that was pretty
favourable to Mary.

Arrived at the school house, he
knocked off as much snow as he could
from his overshoes and trousers and
stamped in. The dance had already
commenced. The little hall in utter
abandonment to the spirit of the
approaching Christmas disported itself
in an extravaganza of garlands and
tissue paper. In one corner stood a
big tree whose evergreen boughs
formed the foundation for a shimmering and glittering foliage of decorations. The three piece orchestra was
esconed before an imitation hearth
through which the already visible
head and shoulders of a jolly but
apoliptic St. Nick threatened to drag
the remainder of the little saint, or
to part with it in the attempt. How
jolly it all seemed. He remembered
the last Med dance at the Nova
Scotian and tried to draw comparisons.
Old friends came up to welcome him
home. The mantle of loneliness that
had descended upon him at the station
seemed to flat away. He was drawn
into and became the centre of a laughIng, whirling, hilarious vortex. He
forgot all about college, all about his
boredom in the happy reunion of old
associates and the recapture of old
familiarities. Once, in a riotous fox
trot he careened into a stranger who

(Continued on page 4°

 

—

The S. C. A.

 

 

lication at Dalhousie University

   

No. 6

Engineers Take First
Game of Play-offs

 

 

 

Basketball Coach

HARRY HANDLER

Freshie-Soph.
Debate

The first debate for the year of the
Annual Bennet Shield series will be
held on Friday night, Wednesday 27th
in the Munro Room, Forrest Building.
Once again the battle will be concerned
with women’s rights. The Sophomore

 

 

class, represented by Margaret Sadler |

andPaynter McIntosh, will support
the resolution, ‘“That women doing the
same work should not receive the same
wages as men’’. The Freshman class
represented by one girl and one boy,
will champion the cause of the women.
This debate will be particularly interesting in that many of the speakers
will be appearing at Sodoles for the
first time. The last debate gave the
aspiring politicians a chance to air
their opinions; this one gives both
those, who would be champions of
women and those who believe in the
superiority of men, an opportunity to
give their reasons for their views.
The absence of girl students from the
political debate was evidence of their
disinterestedness in current political
questions and of their retreat from the
position that they are worthy of
equal political rights. It is to be hoped
that, on Friday night, they will have
more courage, and not allow this
subject to be debated almost wholly
by men. This will be the last pre.
Christman debate.

At Dalhousie

Is it possible that some of our students have not heard of this organization at Dalhousie, or who having heard,
believe that it exists in name only?
Perhaps there is some justification for
such a belief when we remember that
there are more than common difficulties in bringing people together at
Dalhousie for mass meetings of this
nature. Yet, in reality, the Dalhousie
unit of the Student Christian Movement forms a vital undercurrent in
student life.

Let us quote here the ‘‘Aim and
Basis’’ of this movement.

“The Student Christian Movement
of Canada is a fellowship of Students
based on the conviction that in Jesus
Christ is found the supreme revelation of God and the means to a full
realization of life.

‘“The Movement seeks through study
prayer, service and other means to
understand and follow Jesus Christ
and to unite in its fellowship all students in the colleges of Canada who
share the above conviction upon which
the Movement is founded.”

One way by which Dalhousie seeks
to follow the ‘‘Aim”’ is through the
Study Groups.

This year Dr. and Mrs. Bronson are
conducting groups in the discussion of
‘“Jesus in the Records.” This study
course written by Dr. H. B. Sharman
is “‘a presentation of the story told
by the synoptic gospels with a series
of wonderfully suggestive questions,
which force the student to think for
himself if he is to arrive at the real
significance of the records.”

In a recent letter received here from
the head office in Toronto, Mr. Murray
Brooks, one of the S. C, M. secretaries,

writes concerning the outlook fer
another college year. ‘‘A note of
greater seriousness is evident. For

a large number, college represents real

sacrifice. Perhaps for this reason and
because of the background of world
conditions which casts its shadow
over all our life, we, in the Student
Christian Movement, seem to sense
a greater reaching out after reality
amongst students.

Miss Gertrude Rutherford, also a
S. C. M. secretary, writes, ‘‘ ‘Disarmament and the Buffalo Convention
seem to be the chief topics of interest
in Student Movement circles these
days. However, I am glad there is a
strong undergirding of study groups
and that these are chiefly on ‘The Life
of Jesus’.”’

This brings us to another question—
that of Disarmament and the two
petitions that have been circulated
among the students. As was stated
in a previous Gazette, the petition
regarding Canadian representation at
the Geneva Conference was circulated
through the initiative of a group of
students from the Universities of
Canada meeting in Conference at
Elgin House, Muskoka, September,
1931.

Now what place do Conferences
hold in relation to the Movement?

Perhaps this can best be answered
in the words of a McGill student who
after attending the Elgin House Conference writes, ‘‘Elgin House was a
wonderful opener-of-doors. It left me
with a totally different understanding
of the Movement both in Canada and
in the world generally. It gave mea
deep appreciation of the Movement
and the place it fills in university life
today, linking students of practically
all nations in a great, co-operating
Christian fellowship. With its meetings, services, study and spirit it showed
me the Movement ‘in action’—the
practical things it does. I saw clearly
that it was a good thing,”’

(Continued on page 4.)

‘Defeat Law

Three to Nil

Engineers won the opening game in
the interfaculty rugby playoff by
defeating Law in the final game at
Studley on Monday afternoon in a
closely contested game by a score of
3 to nil, Engineers’ three points coming
from a free kick which Menzie sept
over the bar from the twenty yard
line. The teams battled through the
first half on even terms withthe Law
team having the edge, but Engineers
took the offensive in the final session

 

and kept play pretty well in Law
territory, although a last minute
spurt by the Law players nearly
resulted in a score several times.

The game was perhaps the best in
the league this year, and both teams
showed to advantage in the ideal
conditions which prevailed. The Engineers had the edge in kicking and
dribbling, but Law made many gains
through fine half line runs and in
scrum work. Coleman and _ Foster
showed up well for the Lawyers, as
did Austin MacDougall, while Menzie, Harries and Christie were the
pick of the Engineers outfit. The
following is the line-up:

Law: Fullback, Matheson; threequarters, LeBrun, Smith, R. McDonald, A. MacDougall; halves; Coleman,
Hicks, Foster; forwards, Finlayson,
McInnis, McCullough, F. McDougall,
Grant, Squires, Cowan.

Engineers: Fullback, Christie; three
quarters, Harries, Fisher, Squire, Lloy;
halves, Scott, Dickie, Ferguson; forwards, Menzie, Smith, Lodge, Rood,
Taylor, G. McDonald, Morrison.

eee
LIBRARY NOTICE

—

A last minute announcement reached
the Gazette yesterday, that for the remainder of this term, the Library will
be open until 11.00 p. m. every evening
except Saturday and Sunday.

The evening hours are

7.30—11.00 (Mon. to Fri.).
7.30—10.30 (Sat.).

 

Delta Gamma

Holds Dance

On the afternoon of Saturday
November 21st. Delta Gamma held
a very successful tea dance at Shireff
Hall, in order to raise money for the
Community Chest.

About one hundred couples enjoyed
dancing from 4.30 until 7.30 in the
reception room and hall. .

Tea was served at 5.15 in the dining
room, at small round tables decorated
with button chrysanthemums. Mrs.
Sadler, Yale Brody, David Stewart
and the committee wish to thank them
for giving voluntarily their time and
talent.

The committee also wish to express
their appreciation or the manner in
which the girls and Miss MacKeen
heartily supported this project.

Those in charge were Ted Dorman,
Lib Murray, Ed. Allen, Dot Redmond
Laura Marshall, Doreen Harper, Glad
Jost, Mary Simmonds and Jean Begg,

Glee Club to
Hold Show

The Dalhousie Glee Club wishes to
correct the announcement of last week
that the one-act play ‘‘So—Why
Think?” would be presented on Tues.,
Nov. 24.

It was decided that another play,
namely ‘‘Brides Beware!’’ would be
more suitable. Accordingly this oneact play is being put on Thurs. Noy.
26 at Nelson Hall, corner of Barrington
and South St. The cast of the original
play has been retained, with the addition ot five co-eds.

The play serves as a warning to al
young brides starting out on the
stormy seas of matrimony. Laura
Marshall plays the part of the lovely
young mistress, while ‘Al’ Reid plays

 

the serious-minded master of the
household.
Other numbers on the program

include a tap dance by Sam Rosenberg,
a saxaphone solo by Freddie McLellan
and vocal solos by Doug Murray.
As is customary there will be dancing
after the performance.

Owing to the large audience expected
and the small number of seats available only those with Student's Councj]
tickets or passes will be admitte
Passes may be secured from Do
Gibbon or Victor Oland.

 
 

 

   

Managing Editors:

THOMAS D. MacDONALD, B. A. THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
L2890 WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
peeenerenteess: wars <2 Associates:

. es H. B. CHANDLER
eh LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.
Reiman a sane DANIEL SPRY

ir : ; Sports Editor:
GLADYS JOST | R. Db DUCHEMIN
B9746 B9603
- News Editor:
MARGARET DORMAN
_ ELIZABETH MURRAY

RUTH CRANDALL Asst. Business Manager:

Business M

DONALD AHON CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.
: B1826 B2436

Proof Editors:
AARON ZIVE, B. Sc.
EDWARD B. HIGGINS

 

 

PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-9-l1 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.

 

 

THE FLYING CLUB.

Another interesting instance of the prevailing trend of the
times, is furnished by the formation, a short time ago, of the Dal‘ housie Flying Club. This organization which numbers some
Hy) score of enthusiastic adherents, has as its aim the promotion of
| interest in aviation. The students will receive a regular course of
instruction at greatly reduced cost, and willalso have the benefit
of personal supervision by Mr. Don Saunders, whose experience
in matters aerial is extensive.

Provided it does not interfere too much with the academic
work of its members, the new Club will probably receive convB siderable support from the undergraduate body. It is a trite
: saying that the science of aviation is still in its infancy. Indeed,
ae the possibilities of development are limitless and the next half
hey. 5 century will witness amazing strides in its evolution So aviation
| | may well enlist the interest and attention of the younger genera
tion. Such groups as the Flying Club help in this regard, and
-" permit us to keep up with the dizzy pace of progress.

 

Hye OUR DOUGHTY DOCTOR.

That now famous article entitled ‘“Are Women Sheep,”’ which
recently emanated from the versatile, not to say vitriotic, pen of
Dr. Benge Atlee, has raised a miniature tempest in the feminine
teapot. The doughty doctor (who must have a very tolerant wife)
quite rightly believes with George Meredith, that “woman will

be the last thing civilized by man,” and is determined to discharge
part of the obligation by his own efforts. He has undoubtedly
raised some vitally important points; points that demand the
consideration of all thoughtful people, for the author knows where
-—-——s of he speaks. His statements are reinforced by a wide experience

' — and cannot be dismissed with impunity. Indeed, the strenuous
_--——‘ feminine opposition to his article, would seem to indicate that he
~~ ihas put his shrewd finger on some sensitive spots.

per ey Dr. Atlee’s central thesis is evident enough. Women, he
gays, are the mothers of the race; its future rests to a large extent
‘on their shoulders. The burden of the generations is essentially
te a part of their destiny, and it is imperative that they should rear
ie healthy, happy children. But does the average woman consider
this of any importance? Notshe. Instead of viewing the matter
in a rational light, and shaping her whole life with such an end in
view, she expends her energies in a mad chase for pleasure, in
hectic competition for sartorial picturesqueness, and in a general
attempt to usurp some of the places and pursuits now belonging
to men. The result is an alarming jump in infant mortality.
In fact, if the mass of modern women continue to be like sheep in
regard to this vital question, the hope of, strong, rugged race must
soon pass away.

Most of the arguments outlined by Dr. Atlee are sensible and
sound. If one might offer a criticism, it would be that he generalizes a bit too freely. There are still a goodly number of fine, ‘‘oldfashioned’’ mothers who hold that the bringing up of a family is
_-a supreme and sacred achievement. Let us hope their example

will be worth something. Nevertheless, one must admire D1.
Atlee’s frank, outspoken warning of a not improbable danger.
He has the courage of his convictions, and is fearless in stating
them. Dalhousie ought to be proud to have a man of this type
connected with her teaching staff.

>

~
|

ood

a

 

a re

POLITICS AND EDUCATION.

ae
i

a

| The political institutions of any nation have always received a
p great deal of criticism. For the most part, this has been quite
ae justified, and a thoughtful person cannot be blamed for viewing
the machinery of the state with considerable contempt. Indeed,
} as H. G. Wells has said, ‘‘politics is no business for an honest
h man.’ The shortcomings of the present party system are only
too evident; the disclosure of such deplorable affairs as the re
cent Beauharnois scandal, makes one very dubious about the
_ possibility of good government.
eres! But it is not enough to dismiss such incidents with a mere
| gesture of disgust. Obviously there is a perplexing problem here,
_ which surely must be amenable to a solution. In fact, Dr. R. A.,
| ~~ MacKay of our own Political Science department, has lately
| shown whata little honest, straight-forward thinking will do.
_ Thus, instead of regarding corruption and moral turpitude as cona comitant with public life, we should recognize that the politicians
- are largely victims of a system whose defects arise from the ig
*


bc: - norance and apathy of the voters. Nor are these faults entirely
pe. due to the mass of the people. The underlying reason is that
ae there is no reliable centre for the promotion of political education.

is a As everyone knows, the various parties are long on propae ganda and short on truthful facts. Previous to an election, the
_ country is flooded with circulars, pamphlets and articles, containba, ing material which, for the most part, is a tissue of falsehoods.
Br _ The daily newspapers, those childishly partizan playthings, howl

_ madly at one another, and objurgations become the order of the
| _ day. Where, in this bedlam, can the sincere, truth-seeking citizen

Bae _ find really reliable information? Nowhere. The confusion and
Be } ‘y will remain the same as ever, until a non-party centre

____ is established to disseminate trustworthy data on the plans and
__* Policies of all sects. Yes, to our mind, education is the medicine
_ that will cure our political ills; only by education in the widest and
best sense of an independent, fearless facing of the facts, can we

/ 2 fm :
i seat ty h
i Bayt
! > ae ie r lt,
‘ ees
tiny,
a a ‘. a.
ae [ r

ope to approach the Platonic ideal of a perfect state.

eee padi eh a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COMMENT

The Mighty Fall
Empire Trade

The Mighty Fall.

Amid the excitement and turmoil
of the great political crisis two criminal
cases in the courts of the Old Country
have not passed unnoticed. The cases
arose directly out of prevailing general
and particular economic stress and
they serve to remind us again that
such times as these are fraught with
peril for giant corporations and the
captains of finance who direct them.

ord Kyslant was Chairman of the
Board of one of the greatest of British
shipping firms, the Royal Mail Steam
Packet. Some months back he was
convicted on a charge of fraudulent
misrepresentation of the financial position of his Company and thereby
inducing investors to buy stock in
it which would not have been bought
had the real facts been known. On
Oct. 29th his appeal was dismissed
and a second appeal against the sentence was likewise unsuccessful. And
so, a man of seventy years, the tallest
peer of the realm, and one who hitherto
was the outstanding figure of British
shipping, is now serving a_ twelve
months’ sentence in Wormwood Scrubs,

At the last Leicester Assizes Sir
Arthur Wheeler, one-time millionaire
and head of a great brokerage house,
was found guilty of a fraudulent
conversion of certain funds of his
clients. He had parted with an immense personal fortune in a _ vain
endeavour to avert the wreck of his
business and at last had dared to touch
that which belonged to others.

In neither case does it appear that
the prisoner was acting from any
selfish motive. The primary objective was to save the firm. There was
the imminence of failure and a hope of
smoother times just ahead. Each
sought to bridge the gap and thereby
avert the widespread disaster which
the failure of a great corporation
would bring in its train. That, so
far as it went, was a laudable aim.
But at the moment that the laudable
attempt involved the delving into the
pockets of others there was a violation
of the law. It might have been
cowardice to ‘‘haul down the flag
because the ship was sinking,’ but,
as Mr. Justice MacKinnon said in the
Wheeler case, ‘‘You have to consider
whether it is honest for a captain who
knows his ship is sinking to invite
passengers on board.” .

Some may derive satisfaction from
the outcome in these cases—the defrauded investors, those who envy the
mighty, or those who would see all
capitalists in the same box. But there
is undoubtedly a great public sympathy for the principals, and for Lord
Kylsant in particular. It was felt
that he had already gone through
enough and that the humiliation of
gaol was not called for. It is not
pleasant to see one who has been so
high in the public esteem brought to
a lowly pass. One may well have
sympathy. It is hard, but it is only
just.

The Empire Trade.

Events have moved quickly in the
realm of British trade. Immediately
following the elections there was a
decided stir of activity among British
importers who began to lay in stocks
of those commodities most likely to be
affected by the impending tariff. The
exporters of other lands have speeded
up the movement by pushing large
shipments of their particular goods,
in many cases at special prices. The
British farmer and manufacturer, looking for assistance from the coming
tariff, have viewed this eleventh hour
rush with alarm and protested against
the so-called dumping. Last week
Parliament was asked to pass a bill
giving the Board of Trade wide discretionary powers for the imposition
of temporary anti-dumping duties up
to 100%. These are coming into
effect at the present time and Britain
has become a tariff country.

In the meantime interest is picking
up in the Dominions. The British
tariff is at last a fact and, for the
moment at least, preference to -the
Dominions is a fact. It is significant
that Mr. Bennett is nowstopping over
in London on*his way to the south of
France. The proposed conference will
probably not convene before June
or July, but there is a great deal of
a einer to be covered before that
if anything of importance is to come out
of the Imperial economic cooperation
idea. It seems to be generally realized
that the present is the time and the
iron must be struck while hot.

Now that the great stumbling-block
to the Imperial scheme, the quid pro
quo of a British preference, has been
removed, the secondary snag of an
effective Dominions concession must be
encountered. The difficulty lies in
persuading the Dominion governments
to grant concessions which are going
to damage certain of their protected
home industries. In Canada especially
the greatest competitors in the classes
of commodities that Britain seeks to
export are not the exporters of other
nations but the protected plants in
Canada itself. The question of Canadian action will then revolve roughly
around the conflict of interests of
Canadian exporters of natural products on the one hand, and Canadian
manufacturers who will stand to lose
by a Canadian concession on the
other. The resultant governmental
action—if any—is now a matter for
conjecture.

Opinion in the Old Country appears
to be rather sanguine of the outcome.
At least it is hoped that the Dominions
will return something above and beyond the nominal preference suggested
at the last laweraltnniercace There
is hardly any doubt but that the
Government will make some use of
the tariff as a bargaining weapon and
as such a great pressure may be brought
upon the Dominions.

 

THE
PASSING BLOW ||| CONTEMPORARIES

The Old Savage
Poker Chips

Our Advertisers

 

The Old Savage.

Had Raymond D. Fosdick been able
to use a scene from the last Med dance
in the frontispiece for his book ‘‘The
Old Savage in the New Civilization”
he could have driven home his lesson
more effectively with one picture than
with a thousand written pages. The
scene to which we refer was the one
that took place at the counter of the
men’s cloak room at the termination
of the dance when some hundred of
persons whose clothes were the indicia
of culture but whose manners were
the ear marks of barbarism each battled for the advantage of a few seconds
time in receiving his hat and coat.
Utimate paradox! In a hotel that
cost millions, designed to facilitate the
process of living, and to elevate man
another step above that point where
with tooth and nail he fought for his
daily bread; a hotel designed to embody every modern principle conducive to service; a hotel designed, among
other things, to provide facilities for
the handling of clothes: in that hotel
a number of men representative of the
reputed vanguard of this civilization,
crowded and mauled one another
and behaved like wild animals, or
like Old Savages in a New Civilization,

 

Poker Chips.

Some time ago the Gazette came out
with an article on gambling, and in
particular on gambling that takes

lace in the basement of the Arts

uilding. Subsequently the table about which were won’t to gather the
disciples of the Earl of Sandwich disappeared and the Brothers of Chance
were for alittle while stumped.

But not for long. Upon the walls of
the basement hang many large pictures of the former graduating classes
of Dalhousie. For not the first time
are they being put to practical use and
the old boys of umpteen umpty three
now watch, with slightly indignant
expressions, the poker chips bouncing
back from the bearded phizzes of their
comrades of umpty two.

The objections we hold to this procedure are that in past years these
pictures have been subjected to real
danger of damage and, that, once
destroyed, they could scarcely be
replaced. Already the glass had been
broken in some of them, and the
practice ought to be dropped before
any photographs themselves are harmed.

eens mares) ©
Our Advertisers

Certain Halifax business firms advertise regularly in the Gazette. We
wonder if all Dalhousie Students
realize how much this ddvertising
means to the paper and consequently
to the university. Were it not for
advertising, many papers would have
to go out of business and were it not
for advertising the Gazette could not
be published as often as it is published
and probably not at all, In view of
these facts, those merchants who help
to make the publication of this: paper
possible ought to be given the break
by all Dalhousians. We do not mean
that whether or not a certain store
advertises, should be the sole factor
in placing your patronage. But we do
maintain that it ought to be a determining factor, and that, where prices
and quality are equal, the merchant
who advertises in the college paper
ought to receive the preference. Next
time you sally forth to pick a new suit
or a dress, just glance over the Gazette
and find out what business houses are
helping to send this paper to you.

 

 

The Sport Page.

 

Sport items will henceforth be
found upon the back page. The
reason for the change is that the middle
pages are made up one day ahead of
the outside pages and therefore an
event that occurred too late to be
reported on pages two or three might
still be reported on page one or four.
By keeping the first and last pages
for news items and sport items respectively, a fresher brand of news
can thus be given. At the same time
this means that all contributions in
the nature of letters and articles must
be in a day sooner. The deadline for
such contributions is Friday night.

The Dreamer

You sought and found the splendor of
the years

Locked within the treasure vault of
time;

Valour of the ages, dreams sublime,

Were yours to live, to laugh with, to
shed tears.

The gossamer threads of moonbeam’s
silver light

You broke, and saw beyond the starlight’s haze

The wonder of tomorrow’s dawn, ablaze

Through all the trail beauty of the
night.

Yesterday! A memory born to die

Steeped in the wistful sadness of a sigh

Tomorrow! Vague, uncertain as the
blush

Of colour on the evening's twilight flush.

You searched them out, undaunted all
the way.

Oh fool! You found them both and
lost today.

AUDREY P. RYAN. °

 

 

 

 

{not be repelled by the change.

 

  

FROM OUR

The B. A. Degree
Life an Accident

A Word on Peace

Purging Wisconsin

The B. A. Degree.

The Halifax Herald and the Sydney
Post have recently become. slightly
overwrought at the ‘statement of
Principal Fyfe of Queens University
that mass production in our colleges
was.producing an inferior type of B. A.
The Herald went ‘to’ ‘the trouble of
finding: out the opinions of the presi
dents of several Maritime institutions,
and generally they reported in favour
of the Queen's President’s statement,
though suggesting ‘that the newspapers
had confused the report. The Post
remarks that if professors think so
little of degrees why do they scurry
after them so eagerly themselves?
Within the college the problem raised
by this news report has long been
under discussion. English classes here
have frequently pondered the matter
under the guidance of Archie. The
abolition of the degree has'often been
approved. This might rid the college
of those who come merely for the sake
of the little prestige attached to the
degree. Those who come for the
development of their intellect would
Perhaps then, and only then will any
valuable contribution to society be
made by the university. One of the
vices of modern times is the insistence
on numbers as a basis of success or
failure, and our universities tend to
reflect this strongly. As long as the
university embodies this pernicious
public habit the graduate mill will
turn out poor products as well as good.
Another reason for the unqualified
graduate, according to President Stanley, is that the public schools of the
Maritimes at least are not sending up
students with enough background to
do proper university work. ‘This handi
cap is never completely got over during
a college course.

Life an Accident.

The recent address of Professor
Ronald Hayes before the Commercial
Club of the city has created considerable comment in the daily papers,
mostly unfavourable. Prof. Hayes is
quoted: ‘‘The world on which we live
is an accident, and the animals both
man and beasts, which inhabit it, are
even greater accidents; the end both
of human beings and of the world
itself, is not far off as time among
planets runs.” The general surprise,
not to say indignation with which this
statement igs mét fs a fair indication
of the absolute lack of contact of the
public with current scientific theories.
Last month the newspapers reported
General Jan Smuts ‘address. to the
British Association for the Advancement of Science where the same idea
was expressed. What probably annoys
the protesting ones is the fact that the

heresy is committed right here in
Nova Scotia. Admittedly the idea
is a long shot from the -Ptolemaic

conception of the universe, the general
principles of which, believe it or not,
are still vaguely persistent in the heads
of sothé of our populace. It certainly

November 25th, 1931

 

PORTRAITS AND |

CARICATURES

 

DR. H. L. STEWART

Herbie (we were in 2nd year Dentistry before we discovered his last name
was Stewart the “Beau Brumme!” of
the campus. The most popular professor because of his immaculate dress
and violent dislike of green vests,
Herbie is head of the department of
Histology and Embryology.

Bern on the banks of the Clyde he
achieved success because of his ability
to tell Jewish jokes. He then left his
native town of Aberdeen to come to
Dalhousie, where his classes immediately became crowded with Freshettes.

Accompanied by a blonde woman he
attends the Lord Nelson supper dances
and was among those present at the
last Delta Gamma Ball. Although
he is quite the man about town Herbie
never indulges in strong drink, except
on March 17 when he devotes the time
to swilling “Scotch” and _ uttering
curses and vile oaths about all things
[rish.

His favorite magazine is ‘True
Story’'’—his favorite movie star, Clara
Bow, his favorite Student Cookie

Harris, and his favorite flower is the
heather.

 

has the splendid qualification of putting mankind in the back seat of the
cosmic contraption. All of which
makes us desire to emulate the practical fly in Herbie’s famous allegory of
the flies in the engine-room, and to
shun the sad fate of the metaphysical
fly who went to inspect the engine
but never came back.

A Word on Peace.

Dr. Stephen Leacock advises students to get distressed about the
problem of international peace, in an
article to The Sheaf (University of
Saskatchewan). But, he adds, ‘‘don’t
start a Distress Society with weekly
meetings to hear papers on Distress
from a student who has looked up
Distress in an _ encyclopedia. The
trouble with you students is that you
don’t think. You are .too busy to
think. You have too many activities
to be able to do anything. Your life
is so full that it is completely empty.”’
In other words his thought is that the
peace problem is an individual state
of mind, that expresses itself in personal relations. This seems to*be the
most refreshing word in the whole
disarmament discussion even if it is
as old as the hills.

Purging Wisconsin.

Down in Wisconsin a flag-flapping
crusader has founded a Student League
for the Defense of American Principles
in a campaign at the University of
Wisconsin “‘to purge the campus of
socialism, communism, atheism and
profligacy,’’ according to the university
Daily. Tsk, tsk! He probably had
to begin somewhere, so why not Wisconsin. The moral stamina of the
college student is always a matter of
concern for anyone who does not know
the college student. The immediate
results of a liberal education are usually
cordial disrespect for authoritative
institutions and a willingness to encounter new ideas however radical.
This is probably something the crusading gentleman does not understand.
The antique patriotism of standing
up for one’s country right or wrong is
disappearing, and in its place is an
open criticism of popular ways and
means in government.

 

RRC SRG ER Sk Ah OE

 

 

Christmas Holidays

 

are nol far olf--
But canny college men have formed the habit
of not only telling parents what presents they
want—but also just where to buy them..........

We are showing a marvelous range of furnishings
perfect patterns, perfect materials at extremely moderate prices—

Mufflers

Gloves

Shirts

Dressing Gowns

from $1.00

from $1.50
from $1.95

from $5.00

Flannel Lounge Jackets in your

College Colors

from $5.85

- Discount of ten per cent. to Students

hanes Mens Wear

30 Spring SHOP Garden Ra.

 

 

 
  
     

  
 
      
   

  

¥ i

é

4 io »
AS
. f f
hd
iP

we
5
;

The most enjoyable and successful
_ dance of the season, and the last unti
Be giege _Faculty Rooms last Thursday
evening, over two hundred guests
being present to enjoy the excellent
: music provided by Selden Crimp’s
_ Orchestra. The rooms were tastefully
_ decorated with the colors of the colleg
and all preparations for the affair

m5) th

   
  
  
 
  
     
    

, _ mittee consisting of Messrs. Allan

_ Findlay, Doug Smith, Ray Smith,

_  S$tavert Tanton, and John Hebb.

_. The chaperones for the occasion were:

Professor and Mrs. F. H. Paige, Pro
fessor and Mrs. Stanley Walker, and
Mrs. F. W. MacCurdy.

The first inter-class debate of the
season was held in the Haliburton
Room last evening, the Freshmen upholding the negative, and the Sophomores the affirmative, of the resolution:
‘Resolved, That Corporal Punishment
of Freshmen be Abolished.” The
Freshman team was composed of Stan
Cumming, leader, Miss Helen Spurr,
and Ted DeWolfe.

Bill Hart came from behind after
losing the first set to Len Tilley in the
i badminton tournament semi-final to
a, win the college championship last
a Friday afternoon, by winning the final
' match over Jock Kent. The result
isa was a surprise as Tilley ruled the
e. favorite in view of his excellent showing
| in the earlier stages of the tourney.

es

- _ The alumni banquet in honor of the
ae King’s football team will be held at
i the Nova Scotian Hotel tomorrow
F evening, and it is expected that a large
es number of the student body will
= ~ “attend.

F Ca President Carleton Stanley of DalHee housie University was the guest of
* President A. H. Weare at dinner last
ae Thursday evening, and at the close
pe of the evening meal was heard by the
ae King’s students in an_ interesting
= address, in which he stressed the

~~ advantages which had accrued to both
colleges since their union some years
ago. President Stanley, at the conclusion of his talk was given an ap
_ preciative ovation by the students.

ie Miss Muriel Fairweather of Rothesay

- N. B., recently spend a few days at

_ the college, the guest of her sisters,

_ Misses Margaret and Hamlin Fairweather.

- .. Miss Audrey Hardy of Hammond
>\ River, N. B., was a guest at King’s
recently, visiting Miss Margaret Fair
-—- Gandidates for the King’s College
, sketballteam held their first workout

 

of the season last week in the college
ae nagar eae - Captain Vic Regan. Over
-. twenty players turned out, and if
-—s enthusiasm is any indication King's
will have a strong team in the inter«mediate city league this season.

- The King’s Dramatic Club will
stage the first plays of the season tomorrow evening in the Faculty room,
when “The Old Lady Shows her
Medals,” and ‘“‘The Man in The
Bowler Hat,” will be presented. Rehearsals for the plays have been proceeding in a most satisfactory manner
for the past three weeks, and it is
expected that a_ large number of
‘students will hear the players.

       
  
     
  

 

 

Henry Muggah, ’32, spent the weekend in Sydney on business, returning
Tuesday morning.

me OnT.c.

 

Notes

 

__ A well-attended parade was held at
Studley on Wednesday last. A large
number of students have been taking
a course in the working of machine
guns, and they will be given an early
opportunity to practise with this
‘weapon on the range at. McNab’s
Island, . 47 a

Ay On Saturday a tactical erercise in
— .  advance-guard work was held. As the
‘day was warmer than usual, it was
very successful, and the enemy was
completely routed. The C. O., T. os
suffered a few casulties, caused chiefly
by barbed-wire fences. This is probably the last outdoor exercise for this
term.

Organize Dal Orchestra

—

 

 

 

'_ The Symphony orchestra held a
meeting on Thurs., Nov. 19, with Mr.
Harry Meat presiding. It was decided
that the various positions would be
filled at a later meeting.

iz An orchestra of fifteen pieces will
- be used, eleven of them will be string
| BaP i Sule ay instruments. ,

The orchestra intends to play at the
¥ _ opening of the new gymnasium in

_ ss“ February. They will also accompany

\} _ the Choral Society in a number.

ss With =the intention of having all

W, ane prurere present, the orchestra will

hold a meeting at the Munroe Room,

on Wednesday evening at 8 p. m.

k yy BULLETIN Pe :

+ Symphony Orchestra meetin
--yoe Room, Forrest Building,

t. yer Nov. 28, 8 p. m.

4%

Mun
ednes
     

;
f

rk ng in the Toronto Public

next term, was held in the Haliburton |

were capably carried out by the com-|

,

 

 

ANGUS L. MACDONALD
ESTEEMED BY PARTY.

The work of Angus L. MacDonald,
professor in the Dalhousie Law School
and leader of the Liberal party in
Nova Scotia, drew the praise of the
Rt. Hon. MacKenzie King, ex Prime
Minister of Canada, during the recent
Liberal convention held in Halifax.
Mr. King pointed out that Mr. MacDonald had established for himself an
excellent reputation, not only at home
in Nova Scotia, but also abroad in the
central and Western provinces, where
his ability and earnestness were winning
the confidence of many Canadians.
It was Mr. King’s opinion that the
youthful and zealous provincial leader
will go far in Dominion politics,

It is with much gratification that
this University, which has already
given Canada a Premier, watches the

rogress of Mr. MacDonald’s successul career. During these strenuous
days, when politics have, unhappily,
fallen somewhat into evil repute, it is
to every responsible citizen a very
reassuring indication that men of the
moral calibre of Rt. Hon. R. B, Bennett
and Mr. Angus L. MacDonald are
willing and ready to devote themselves
to the affairs of government. It is an
indication, we believe, that politics are
on the way back to that high plane
where they may command the dignity
and esteem of an honorable profession.

The students of this university will
always follow with deep interest the
careers of such illustrious sons, in
whatever party ranks they be found

 

——

Ex-Dalhousian

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The
OBSERVER’S

Column

 

One of the Dalhousie students wanted to hear the Honorable Mr. King
speak to the Liberal Club last week,
and the only way he could.get in was
as a fake reporter—‘‘Representative
of the Fort Williams Times, Sir.”
All went well.until, the meeting over,
he went up and congratulated Mr.
King on having ‘‘the fighting Laureate
spirit.” Port’s licence we suppose.

Rememher last year’s Moustache
Club. Out of curiosity we asked if it
were a thing of the past, and here’s
what we found out. “The first meeting of the season was held in the basement of the old gym. Lester has
again been elected president andj
Rexlar Cook was the first one to join.
The other members are Jimmie MacDonald, Bob Kanigsberg, Burn Adams,
Fred Stanley and Prof. Dufau. Polar
Pie Atwood and Don Stewart hope
to join by January.

What with the new electric clock at
the Hall being ten minutes fast, it’s'
no easy job getting the girls back by
11 p. m. Jimmie MacIntosh tried a
short-cut which he thinks has possibilities, but unfortunately his car
stuck in a potato drill back of the
Murray Homestead. However, Prof. |
Ells is always ready to help out with the
towing.

The girls around here are getting
far too independent. So say Andy
Bruce and John Fisher. You see they
didn’t quite understand about the
Delta Gamma tea dance when they
invited Dereen Harper and Dot Vernon
to go with them, they received the
reply—"We’ve already invited two
gentlemen,”

Not a story about the Meds. As
Fred MacLellan says—‘‘Anything we
Medical students considered humorous!

or worthy of note would be far too|

Gazette reader.’’ That-all comes from

:

subtile for the mind of the aMErAE® |

t.°81 and Virginia Irwin | de

having Dr. Benge Atlee as a professor.

 

 

   
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
     
    
   
    
   
   
    
    
  
  
      
   
 
    
   
     
  
   
     
    
    
   
   
  

Prominent

Now for the weekly puzzle. Fat
MacKenzie couldn’t get this one in
half an hour. ‘‘A train leaves Truro
going 6 miles an hour and at the same
time a train leaves Halifax going 4
miles an hour, Which one is nearest
Halifax when they pass—

Among the list of probable appointees
to the Commission investigating the
transportation system of Canada appears that of President Walter C.
Murray of the University of Saskatchewan. President Murray's is a name
well known in Dalhousie and the City
of Halifax. During his occupation
of the Chair of Philosophy here he
was outstanding not only in the life
of the University but also in civic and
public affairs. He has had the distinction, which we believe is unique
among Dalhousie professors, of serving
as an alderman for a city ward while
still engaged in his professorial duties.

When the Province of Saskatchewan
organized a state university Professor
Murray, as he then was, was called
to the West to take over the Presidency
of the new college. The fine
institution which he has done so much
to build up stands as a monument to
his ability and service. Yet for all the
weight of duties upon him he has
found time to continue that interest
in public affairs which earned for him,
while he was in this community, the
reputation of an upright and publicspirited citizen. His public activities
in his new home have been so widespread that he has long been recognized as one of the outstanding figures of
the West. Two years ago, when a
Government Commission was set up
to advise on some technical aspects
of civil service administration. President Murray was appointed to the
body along with such other distinguished Canadians as Mr. E. W. Beatty,
K. C..of the Canadian Pacific. His
probable appointment to this new
commission is viewed with approval
on all sides. The Gazette takes this
opportunity of congratulating a wellremembered Dalhousian on this latest
honour and opportunity for service to
his country.

Dr. Bennet, (lecturing on Building
for Beauty)—The only beautiful building on the campus is the Murray
Homestead.

| Notice

The MacDonald Library will in
future be open on Saturday evenings
beginning November 28th. It is understood that negotiations are being
carried on to extend the closing time
in the evening from 9.45 to 11 p.m.
Notice of this will appear later.

 

General Basketball Practise

St Mary’s Gymnasium |
Wed. 4.00 p.m. Sat. 3.30 p.m.
EVERYBODY OUT

 

 

 

 

 

Pretty pass things
have come to, young
lady, you callin or
your Leau instead
of him visiting

   
  


 

Engineering Notes

       
  

While in Mechanics 4 lecture period
the other day Charles I. Bacon was
heard muttering ‘‘Hell’s Belles.’”’ When
asked where the expression came from
we found out that he had been reading
“Ladies in Hades.’’ Careful Charlie.

a
© ADBCTT &
eX WALKER, INC.

Bub Father dear
we dance over here;
His folks gobka*

®r2di0 from

PHINNEY’S

and its one of thcse wonderful new....

MARCONI
INTERNATIONAL

Short - Long Wave Receivers

 

_ “Lindy” Rood's bowling team, although defeated by Medicine, are not
downhearted. They feel that with a
little more practice, they will be able
to win from the best teams in the
league.

After much delay and argument
Engineers were rightfully awarded the
protest of the Arts & Science team,
about the Engineers having the right
to play second team men.

 

Personal

Marion MacIntosh 31, has returned
to Halifax to take a business course.

Audrey Thomas '31, is attending the
-business college in Truro.

Gwen Curry ‘31 has acceptehda
secretarial position in Philadelp ia
Phyllis Sheen, "31, has accepted a
position in the provincial pathology

partment. —
Charlotte Allan "31 is attending the
Toronto Library School,

Better get one Dad at

      
     
 
 
       

  

8
“456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

    

 

 

  

The Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir:—

The author of ‘‘France and French
Policy” has certainly read with great
care the many and various papers
which are widely scattered along the
streets of this city and he quotes (no
quotation marks seen) many learned
phrases taken from the said journals
to prove that France is a drawback
to the organization of ‘“‘international
society.”

May I first refute the “‘arguments”’
of the diligent reader of the press.
France’s ‘‘uncharitable treatment of
the vanquished”’ is the first accusation.
It would be an insult to the education
of the author if | were to remind him
that England and the United States
had more than a great deal to say how
Germany should be treated. Why
put all the blame on France? ‘‘Argument’’ secundo: “‘her (France) stub
born tenaciousness to what she call
her rights of treaty and reparatio.
It is the common instinct of every
individual man to demand and defend
his rights; so France, having the
approbation of the allied powers in
her demands for reparation goes ahead
and demands them, perhaps emphatically if there is a sign of reluctance
from the other side. France when
she demands her treaty rights remembers the five billion francs which Germany so forcibly exacted from her in
1871. The French people made pathetic sacrifices to hasten the payment of
this indemnity. Third ‘‘argument”’:
“her attitude towards disarmament.”
In reply I say that Italy is the main
plaintiff of France’s attitude towards
disarmament and please notice the
accuser. Italy does nut possess onetenth of the colonies which France
does and still she insists that the
French navy be brought down to her
own strength or somwhere near it.
The amount of water which has to be
covered by French . battleships is
tremendous, France being second to
Britain in colonial possessions, and
kindly notice the difference in tonnage
between the English and French navy.
With such plain facts in view to refute

{his arguments the author dares to

state that France today ‘‘stands against
the world, the greatest. national deterrent....... etc, etc.’’ France today
is giving money right and left, to aid
deaurumated and demoralized nations,
an act of charity not of ‘‘revenge.”’

In the second paragraph of ‘France
and French Policy” its author says
that France will stop at nothing to
protect herself from another repetition
of 1914 and that she draws up her
foreign policy accordingly. Why not
when she looks towards her northern
vineyard and sees her once fruitful

villages charred and desolated as if.a

 

General Basketball Practise
St. Mary’s Gymnasium
Wed. 4:00 p.m. Sat. 3.30 p.m.
EVERYBODY OUT

 

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

—— ee

 

21 Spring Garden Road

 

 

 

 

In The Evening

 

For evening refreshment,
choose The Green Lantern.
All foods, drinks and Ice
Cream arethe best quality

and moderately priced.

The Green Lantern

 

s}Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

| SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
T’UXEDO, at one
price

24

MADE TO MEASURE

° o
Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

The Student F orum

A Column. devoted to Comment and Controversy

 

Page Three

 

Pine Hill Notes

 

    
 

rampant among the boys lately. Last
week Russell McSween, eyeing with
grave apprehension a dilapidated slipper from which a big toe gave promise

breath from Hell had passed over
them, her once waving wheatfields
now sowed with iron and lead, her
quiet rivers crimson with the blood of | of early protrusion casually remarked:

her armies, why then, should her
foreign policy be blamed? Who governs France today but the young men
of yesterday who during the late war
saw their homes burned and plundered,
everything they held dear destroyed,
saw their fathers killed in the defense
of their country. Why should they
not draw up foreign policies, not for! pleased to report his condition much
“revenge”, but as a policy of preser- improved.
vation so that their sons will not see we
the sights which they saw or undergo
the misery which they suffered. This
is the spirit of the modern Frenchman,
a spirit not inflamed with hate and
revenge but a spirit troubled with the
cares of the future generation and as
a result drawing up foreign policies
accordingly.

‘You'll have to be getting us a new
pair of slippers Don.”’ To which his
obliging roommate replied: ‘‘Very well
Russell, what size do we wear?”

 

Harry Roberts, who is taking first
year Medicine, underwent an operation
for appendicitis last week. We are

 

Who would ever believe that the
delicious aroma of chicken could come
from a mere fruit salad? From now
on at Pine Hill “seeing is believing”
ride ,, possession is nine-tenths of the
aw.

Fraser Nicholson is bothered much
of late with the sweet music of sirens
directly below his room. The music,
he admits, is not half-bad but the
constant breaking of waves on the
shoals is not conducive to study.

N. B. Look at the question from the
Frenchman's point of view.
STUDENT.
ee
The chief talk around the drafting
room nowdays is the choice of men
who shall be picked to go to Camp
Borden. On Dec. 11th there will be
a talk given by Flight Lieutenant
Wait to the Engineers regarding activities and benefits derived from
flying with the Royal Canadian Air

Force. At present among the Engineers there are three who have spent
two years at Camp Borden. These
are Don Tapley, “Lindy’’ Dood and
Fred Morrison.

 

 

   

Blended Right!

 

nchester

CIGARETTES
of course

 

90 FOR 9 5 CENTS

 

 

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Household Science: Teacher’s

Halifax Ladies College

Conservatory of Music “[ni'Sicecian's Certificate.

Musie in all Branches. Teacher's Certificate. Graduation Diploma.
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.

MISS E. FLORENCE BLACK WOOD,B.A., MR. HARRY DEAN,

Principal. Director of Conservatory

Leather Goods

Trunks
Bags and Luggage of

    
    
      
     

 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

Portfolios,

all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

ioe" |

 

 

 

 

 

 

BIRK

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations

qn & . submitted without
3 OLS Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. ©

OO

CHOCOLATES

Whether or not it is due to the influence of the Pine Hill Round Table
discussions, Communism is becoming

 

 
eo |.

as

bem,
—

=e lie

a

4" r ’
.

, ‘

We
. *

J

e
m
A r

“

sented b

  

Basketball Days Are Here
|Pres. of Dal

hay Asks

Mana
For Sppport

  

 

The time for Dalhousie to be repreaBasketball team is here
again. e ‘season of 1931 was a

ery successful one for us in Basketball

In order to repeat and to keep up the]

interest of Dalhousie in Basketball it
requires much time and diligent practce on the part of those participating
in the sport.

This year everybody has a chance to
make the team, the team is not settled
from former years, but the best material of the present student body is weld
ed into one strong co-operative body of

players. In order to do this it is
necessary for all those who play or
wish to play to pee themsellves
at practices, everybody who turns out
will be given a fair chance to display
their wares and compete for a position
on the team.

We will be somewhat handicapped
this year until the completion of our
new home, but through hard work and
diligent practise there is no reason why
we cannot build up an even stronger
team, than those of former years, in
our temporary home at St. Mary's
Gymnasium. It is true that it will
require some extra effort, but when we
play in our new home sometime after
the middle of February, think how
important it will be, and how great the
honor to have a winning team play

_ there.

All I ask for at this date is the
support of those students who play or
ean to play basketball, and their
continued support through the season
at practise periods and games, then
we will be assured of another winning
team.

Practices will be held Saturdays from
3.30 to 4.80 and from 4.30 to 5.80 on
Wednesdays for: the present and
including December 5th and will be
continued immediately after the Christmas Holidays.

Players please watch the columns
of this paper and notice boards for
particulars.

H. A. NICHOLS,
Manager.

 

Scrapping
hi The Gun
(Continued from page 1)

 

nature and the diseased parts have
suddenly become inflammatory. After

- easualities reaching the thousand mark

are being reported the League is
finally stirred—for over two years it
has been helpless. _

_ We have rounded the first lap only

on the march to world peace. _ Nations
are to-day being educated to the idea
but until that day when disarmament

conferences will cease to be armament

conferences, no real step forward will
be made. While offensive tariff wars
are being waged, when nation looks
upon nations with misgivings and
mistrust, when one country is prepared
to disarm only when her potential
adversary disarms according to the
dictates of the former, it is idle to
suppose that the world peace ideal has
been perfected. Armaments, it Is
‘true, are the manifestation of the
tendency to solve .roblems by violence
and war is a post facto method. But
before armaments are done away with,
the method of reason must prevail
and in such a way as will solve difficulties long before thet reach the
kindling point. But is this not the
field of the legislator and representative?

When the Great War came on,
the urgency of the situation demanded
that men be given army commissions
on short notice and -laced in charge of
troops. It is perhaps not incorrect to
say that thousands of lives were
sacrificed as a result thereof. The old
soldiers would not see this bit of tragic
history repeat itself. They have gone
to the universities and, to quote again
from the editorial, ‘‘where men are
presumably on the high road of education’? have asked for voluntary membership to officers’ corps. No _ persuasion is employed to obtain members
nor is there the least semblance of
force used to prevent anyone leaving at
anytime during the college course or
aiter graduation from the university.

oa
PERSONAL.

Weldon Inn of Phi Delta Phi held a
special meeting at the Y. M. C. A
last Friday evening. Prof. Horace
Read lecturing on “Animal Trials”
was the special speaker.

 

  

Mens Raincoats
) Some worth

$12.00
tor $6.00

while they last

Frank Colwell’s
New address |
| 119 Hollis Sreet

(Near Queen Hotel)

   
  
   

 
 

  

 

       

 

Flying Club

 

ORTON HEWAT

 

Ga ee

(Continued from page 1.)

Another Conference is soon to take
place. Under the Student Volunteer
Movement preparations are in progress
for the Eleventh Quadrennial Convention, which is to meet at Buffalo from
December 30, 1931 to January 3, 1932.
The theme of the Convention is ‘‘The
Living Christ in the World of Today.”

An article of this nature will not be
complete without some mention of the
weekend Conference held so recently
at Acadia University. There were
five delegates from Dalhousie and
three from Mount Allison, The Conference was wonderfully rich in}Christian fellowship. Mr. Hugh MacMillan, who has returned from China and
is this year travelling as secretary for
the S. C. M. led in the discussion of
many deeply vital problems.

It cannot be doubted but that this
Student Christian Movement is
moving power in the student life of
today.

 

Lawyers Win
“‘B’’ Section

———__ —_—_

Beaten by Meds in first game, but
retaliate to win second.

On Tuesday, Nov. 17th, Law and
Medicine met in an Interfaculty football game to decide the championship
of Section B. The Lawyers needed
only a win or a tie to cinch the title,
but they got neither, for Medicine
copped the game by a 3.0 score. This
forced Law to play the embryo doctors
again on Thursday to definitely decide
the title, and in the second contest
the lawyers came out on top of a 5-3
score thus heading section B of the
Interfaculty League.

 

General Basketball Practice

St. Mary’s Gymnasium
Wed. 4.00 p. m. Set.3.30p. m.

EVERYBODY OUT

 

 

 

 

  

Friday and Saturday

RICHARD DIX

The Public Defender
ALL NEXT WEEK

Lady

George Cholmondeley
And Her London Company
Mon-Tue-Wed-Nov.30, Dec. 1-2

‘To Have The Honour’

Thur-Fri-Sat. Dec. 3-4-5

“The Dumb Wife’’

      
     
       
    

 

    
 

 

  

 

GARRICK ||| DAL UNIVERSITY

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

(Continued from page 1)

glared at him vindictively and for a
moment brought him down to earth.
But the spell was soon regained and
his mood became merrier and merrier.

Ralph did not get a chance to dance
with Mary until the last waltz,
when, in a desperate last stand against
conspiring circumstances he carried
her off ts main force. Floor and
people and time and place then melted
away and only the music remained,
throbbing and pulsing until they and
the music seemed to merge in a sublime harmony. As the dance ended
he whispered: ‘‘May I take you home?”

‘“T wish you could,” she replied,
disconsolately, ‘‘but I’ve gone home
from the last three dances with that
chap and I know he expects to take
me home tonight and he’s awfully
jealous.”” She indicated a husky individual in whom Ralph recognized
the person with whom he had collided

“Listen,” said Ralph, ‘‘you wait
for me, see? I’m taking you home
and no one else.’’ Mary ran to get
her cloak.

As Ralph hurried into his overcoat
he saw out of the corner of his eye
his rival who was donning a great
coat of coon skin and an enveloping
fur hat, and before the recalcitrant
buckles of his overshoes had yielded
the other man finished dressing and
went up to Mary. Ralph could not
hear the short dialogue but he saw the
fur clothed person turn away from
the girl, direct toward him a look of
intense hatred, and shuffle out into the
night. Ralph shivered. That look
forbode no good and after all the
stranger was manifestly, by far his
superior physically.

Neither spoke much as they walked
along the lonely country road. The
little episode after the last waltz had
ruined the spell of the evening, and
both their hearts contained, though
they would not have confessed it, a
certain forboding that sprang from
fear of the other man.

Once Mary had been lodged safely
at home, Ralph heaved a sigh of relief.
As he commenced the homeward trip,
however, the foreboding increased, and
by the time he had covered one quarter
of the distance it had grown into a
certainty that he would encounter his
rival before he got home. With each
step the strength of the premonition
was augmented. That last look of
hideous hatred had contained, he felt,
no idlethret. He was peering ahead
now into the dusk trying to locate his
enemy.

And suddenly, as he came upon a
little wooden bridge over a stream, a
massive form emerged from the dusk
ahead and advanced upon him.

The murder in its eye Ralph sensed

as an almost tangible thing. He
could not think, stark, groveling
terror filled his neart. Now the
creature was upon him. He drew

back his fist, then lunged with all his
might. Involuntarily his eyes closed.
He heard a dull thud and sensed a

 

 

Special

STUDENT SERVICE

DRY CLEANING
PRESSING
REPAIRING

—We call for and deliver. —

Cousins, Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 Robie St. 381 Barrington St.
Telephone Lorne 2323

 

   

STORE

SPECIALS FOR
FRIDAY, SATURDAY
NOV. 27th, 28th.

10% reduction on Dal Stationery: 25% reduction on
Fountain Pens, Eversharp
Pencils and Hyde Park Pipes

For SATURDAY Only

6 OF ANY 5 ARTICLE IN
THE STORE FOR 25c.

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

A Marder Tale |Basketball

Bowling News

Work- Out Bowling has caught the fancy of

Candidates tor the Dalhousie basketball team had their first workout at
the St. Mary’s gymnasium last Saturday afternoor when about thirty men
turned out for an organization meeting
and general practice, Judging from
the form shown, there will be no dearth
of material for next season’s team.
Basketball practices for first and
second team men will be held in future
at St. Mary’s on Wednesdays and
Saturdays from 4 to 6 p. m. and 3.30
to 6 p. m. respectively.

For those who are taking up basketball for the first time or who wish to
practice during other periods than the
teams’ workouts, Mr. Stirling, Dal
physical director, is arranging regular
periods. Those desiring to take advantage of these periods are requested
to get in touch with Mi. Stirling either
at the Murray Homestead or at St.
Mary’s gym.

 

terrible pain in his wrist; there followed a muffled thump, and then silence.
Ralph opened his eyes.

Upon the snow at his feet reposed
an inert mass. In the almost abysma |]
winter darkness he could recognize
no feature, but when one trembling
hand was extended ‘t encountered fur
and came back stained by blood.
The fear in Ralph's heart turned into
pity and the pity turned again into
fear. Desperately he knelt beside the
huddled mass and shook it again and
again. No faintest movement rewarded his efforts; not the faintest sound
of respiration reassured him. Oh God!
The thing was dead.

In a cold sweat he caught the body
and dragged it under the little bridge
Then he stumbled on home. The
terrible desolation of the winter swept
country side reflected now the utter
desolationof his spirit. Ahead burned
the lights of the village. Fires, he
supposed, were still burning on some
of the hearths. But lights and fires
and the comforts of home were for
such as went about the ordinary busi
ness of life. He was set apart for
ever from such as these. These said
after Moses: ‘‘Thou shalt not kill.”

He had killed.

In the morning his father found
him before the burned out fire in the
den. In answer to his look of surprise Ralph blurted out, ‘Dad, I killed
a man last night.’’ He told the whole
story, and it seemed to ease a bit the
awful burden. His father took it
calmly although his face remained just
as twhite as a sheet “We may as
well phone the sheriff and get it over
with,” he said.

After the sheriff had been phoned
they hitched the horse to the sleigh,
and, in the ghostly morning twilight
they set out to recover the body.
Ralph had no longer any fear. He
was heartsick and infinitely lonely
with the sense of eternal isolation

 

All that is Refined
in Men’s Clothing is Yours
with the Fashion-Craft Label

 

ISTINCTIVE
OVER COATS

that superbly meet the
cold weather essentials of
protection and _ finished
appearance which com- \4f
fort and fashion demand,

Fashion -Craft

Overcoats
Matchless Values for

$25.00

Comfort at low cost

 

 

>< Spats from $1.75
Lined Gloves $1.89
Mufflers from $1.50
Underwear $1.50

‘ Cohwala

Brothers
Limited
HALIFAX

 

PPI POD

vy

Ww

 

Dal students, and every regular Dal
day at St. Mary’s, Mondays, Wednes
days, and Saturdays from 2 to 6 p. m.,
and Monday, Wednesday and Friday
night from 7 to 11 p. m. finds a large
number indulging in the popular pastime. Several have proven themselves
bowlers of no mean ability, as witness
the following scores: Don McRae, 124;
D. L. Redmond, 113; Eric Murray, 110;
L. Smofsky 111; M. Rankin 107;.Jim
McDonald 107; W. Goodman 101; F.
Kopp, 101; Gilbert Houston 101; J.
Dunsworth, 101; G. Schurman, 100.
Don McRae’s single string total of
124 pins won him the sixteen-ticket
award, a standing prize for any Dal
student who topples the lumber for
120 or over. In addition to this prize,
a silver engraved cup is to be awarded
to the student making the highest
average in six strings during the Dal
housie season at St. Mary's. This
competition, however, is open to other
than Dal students.

Law and Medicine won the first

matches of the pre-Christmas bowling
league at St. Mary’s by defeating Arts
and Engineers respectively. Law had
the close margin’ of three pins over
Medicine, taking 3 points out of the
five. Mader was highest individual
scorer with 97, while Mcdonald of
the Law team rolled up the highest
three-string total of 261.

Medicine had a margin of 29 pins
in their game with Engineers, taking
four points to their opponents’ one.

Three men, Douglass, McRae and
Tapley tied for the highest single
string with 101 apiece, while Tapley
had the highest total, 267. i

LEE a RE SS

that his deed had invoked. They
reached the little stream and the
doctor got out.

“Stay here, boy,” he said, very
gently. “I'll bring up the body.”

He stooped under the bridge and
took a firm grasp in the fur. Ralph
gritted his teeth and watched him.
The doctor gave a mighty pull, and
exposed to the light of the winter

dawn a big dead grisly bear.
FROM THE

WINNERS From 7

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment

that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

November 25th, 19

Bulletin

GYMNASTICS.

 

The Dalhousie Gymnastic Team
meets every Saturday afternoo n a
2.30 p. m. for advanced work and
every Monday at 8 p. m. for preliminary class work. Students ininterested in gymnastics.

BADMINTON AND HANDBALL.

Badminton and Handball periods
are Monday afternoons 2 until6p. m.
Wednesday 2 to 6; Monday, Wednesday, Friday evenings 7 to 8 p. m.

Glee Club Performance,

Nelson Hall—corner Barrington and
South Sts.

Thurs., Nov. 26, 8.15 P. M.

Admission by Student's
tickets and passes only.

NOTI CE.

Council

 

The regular fortnightly meeting
of the ‘Cercle Francais’ will be held
at Shirreff Hall at 8 o’clock, Thursday,
Nov. 26. Everybody is cordially invited to attend. q

On Tuesday, Dec. 1, the Commerce
Society of Dalhousie will meet at the
Delta Sigma Pi Fraternity house.
Two papers are to be read: one todeal
with the “Gillette and Auto Strop”
Controversy, which is to be capably handled by Bob Brown. Waldo Goodman
willspeak on the ‘‘Wheat Situation,”’

A 
CASINO

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
November 26-27-28

The Spirit of
NOTRE DAME

The Gridiron Classic
of the Year

 

 

 

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
Nov. 30 Dec: 1-2

 

NANCY CARROLL

NL
‘Personal Maid’

 

 

 
 

Cover Charge $1.00

 

The Lord Nelson Hotel

They are all leather. .
shoes selling at this price.

offers!

calf. A full range of sizes.

SUPPER DANCE

9 to 12 p. m.

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
HARRY COCHRANE’S ORCHESTRA

 

Vikdale Footwear

$6.

BIRKDALE shoes are quality shoes in every respect.
. a feature seldom found in

Made by one of Canada’s foremost shoe manufacturers, especially for EATON’S, you may be sure that the construction
is of high standard, and that styles are correct.
the exceptionally large selection this regular EATON line
Oxfords in calf and kid leathers and boots of black

Eaion’s Second Floor.

   
    
  
 

Service A la Carte

   

00

    
    
    
   
    

Inspect

    
       
     
   

 

 

 

 
