@

cara eS

a

SSS SS

>

i ae
-« A he

=" Tse,

 
  
  

7

he
i Ci
££
=
; Fs :
7 a -.
e P ‘

ee

    

7

 
   

ANUUUUUINOLAUUALOASNOAANSNULN OLN

4 2 |
in OO

Mie
Ee , gin

 

 

VOL. EXVI.

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 22, 1935

 

 

 

 

Dr. T. Koo, Brilliant
Chinese Scholar, To
Speak To Dalhousie

Dr, T. Z. Koo, brilliant young
Chinese scholar, an international
figure, rated by some as “perhaps the most outstanding student speaker in the world today,” will address a mass meeting of the student body in the
gym next Saturday at noon,
Nov. 30th.

Here as the guest of students, Dr.
Koo will have a heavy schedule addressing various organizations during his three-day visit to Halifax at
the end of November.

Most interesting to Dalhousians
are: a student mass meeting in the
gym at which Dr. Koo’s subject will
be “Vital Religion’; a public mass
meeting in the Capitol Sunday afternoon, Dec. Ist, on the topic, “Developing World-Mindedness”, and a
supper meeting of the S. C. M. on
Friday, Nov. 29th, at 6 p.m.

Dr. Koo is known to thousands of
Americans as one of the ablest and

most interesting Orientals who have
come to this country. A graduate
of St. John’s University, Shanghai,
China, he was for nine years an official in the Administrative Department of the Chinese Railway Service
before joining the staff of the National Committee of the Young Men’s
(Continued on Page Four)

 

First Practice
For Saturday

 

On Saturday in the Munro Room

 

DR, T. Z. KOO

who will be the speaker at the gym
on November 30, at noon. All are
invited to hear this dynamic intellectualist and speaker.

Parlee, Arab Are
Picked For Dal
In Intercollegiate

 

Sodales Debating Society met in

the Munro Room on Friday last to)

hold debating trials for places on
the team that will represent Dalhousie against St. F. X. here on
November 28th, the first Intercol
jlegiate debate of the year.
| Those who turned out for this de
bate were: Simon Webber, Babbitt

the Glee Club will hold their first} Parlee, Victor Thorps, Edward Arab

trials for “The
The play is an uproarious farce by
Owen Davis.

After the huge success of “The
Ghost Train” the Glee Club are aiming to repeat with a play somewhat
on the some lines.

Saturday afternoon at 2.30 is the
time of trials. Following are the
parts. If you think you could handle
a part, turn out. Scripts may be
obtained at the Glee Club Room so
that prospects may get an idea of
the play.

The Tramp—A wild-eyed individual.

The Bride—A sweet young thing.

The Groom—The anxious loving
husband.

The Chauffeur—Mysterious person.

The wife—

The novelist—The central figure.

Haunted House.”’|and David Redmond.

The judges,
Prof. Bennett, Prof. Curtis and Dr.
Nicholls, selected Babbitt Parlee
(leader) and Edward Arab.

Both men are well known in
debating circles at Dalhousie.
Edward Arab has been a consistent performer during his years
at Dalhousie, and has won the
Bennett Shield, and last year led
Dalhousie against U. N. B.

Babbitt Parlee is a newcomer
to Dalhousie this year, and is in
First Year Law. He is a graduate of Mt. A., and has led Mt.
A. on several oceasions. Since
coming to Dalhousie he has
taken a prominent part in debating.

The resolution which will be debated against St. F. X. should prove
very popular to the students. It is:

Pompous and always wanting to| “Resolved that in the event of Eng
take control.

The Gal—Woman with something on
her mind.

The Sheriff—Comedy figure; officious and fainting.

The Milkman—Stupid fellow.

The Detective—Typical cop.

Glee Club Notice

Tryouts for the forthcoming
all-Dalhousie dramatic presentation, “The Haunted House”, will
be held in the Munroe Room, For
‘rest Building, Saturday after| noon, Noy. 16th, at 2 o'clock.
All persons wishing to look over
_ | the play before Saturday may ob_ | tain copies of the script from
Wally Roy, B-4297, or Jack Dobson, B-0156.

 

land becoming involved in an European war, Canada should remain
neutral.”

Considering the fact that three
weeks ago a plebiscite was held on
this very question, to which there
was a marked response, it should be
the means of cementing student
opinion on this question.

The topic discussed at the trials

was: “Are you in favor of the
Nationalization of the National
Ports?” Charles A. Manning, Pres
ident of Sodales, was in the chair.

The Father—Loving dad type, pro
tecting his family.

Joe Connolly will direct.

The show, of course, will not be
presented till after Christmas.

The next show is Friday, Novy. 29
when various groups will put on a
|series of one-act plays.

7

 

 

 

and Business Manager are

of the Students at its next

  
  

CALL FOR EDITORS TO
RGE OF BOOK

TAKE CHA

Students wishing to apply for the positions of Editor

which they believe would ensure the success of a Year
Book from an editorial and financial viewpoint. '
are to be presented with their applications to the Council

Munro Room on Sunday, Nov. 24th, at 2.30 p.m.

If anyone interested wishes further details, please
consult your class or faculty representative on the Council.

 

 
 
   

asked to draw up schemes
These

meeting to be held in the

M: M. RANKIN,
Secretary-Treasurer.

The Council met sf day afternoon in the Munro Room

to consider a lengthy agenda, the high lights of which
were the question of a Year-Book, student forums, reprimanding down-town reporters and criticism of the Gazette

Editors.

Once more, the Council will authorize the publication of a Year Book.
Such was the result of a three-hour
discussion of this much considered
question. And it will be produced
without the enormous deficits of former years. The price to the students
will probably be two dollars, with a

\cost of production of approximately

five dollars Advertising, together
with a small handout from the
Council, if necessary, will cover the

difference between sale price and
publication cost.
The discussion brought out the

fact that at Mt. A. last year a profit
was made on their year book. All
the other colleges of the Maritimes
have year books, so why not a year
book at Dalhousie at a profit ?

Mr. Thompson was of the opinion
that only the best that money could
buy was good enough for Dalhousians—in other words, unless we can
afford to throw away anywhere from
five to nine hundred dollars, drop the
idea altogether. But something more
in keeping with our general position,
rather than competition with the
larger universities, should be attempted.

On motion of John Fisher, it was
decided to call for applications for
the positions of business manager
and editor, the applicants to appear
before the Council next Sunday and
present their plans.

CENSURE PRESS.

The question of censuring the
reporters of the down-town papers
came up when Charles Manning
suggested that the down-town
papers be cut off. The reporters
are sent out with express orders
to get only facts which may be
written into a fantastic and sensational story, which
throughout the province.

is sent

The reporters will be asked to cooperate with the students, and give
an unbiased report of meetings, etc.
The President of the Council was instructed to approach the controllers
of the paper, and ask for a more rea
that their society had been unduly
discriminated against in the matter
of publicity in the Gazette for the
|Med dance, while the Law Society
are given too much.

Student Forums will continue,
and Mr. Fisher will run them.
| The last was a success, and the
| future meetings will be arranged
to suit general convenience.

All gate receipts will come directly under the Council in the future.
At the University functions at which
admission is charged, two members
of the Council will take care of ticket sellers, and the proceeds will be
paid direct to the committee.

The next meeting of the Council
will be held Sunday, Nov. 24th, in
the Munro Room to consider applications for the editorship of the
Year Book.

 

 

 

0

Plays Are Tee
[Be Presented

On Thursday, Nov. 28th, at 8.15
p.m., the Gymnasium will be the
scene of another of the ever-popular
Glee Club shows. This one will consist of two one-act plays—one presented by Shirreff Hall and the other
by Pine Hill, and also an extensive
musical program.

Under the capable direction of
Herman Halperin, Shirreff Hall will
present the one act farce, “Seven to
One”. For the edification of the Dalhousie males, the action takes place
in a Sorority home. Both the action
- the witty dialogue of the play

 

 

make for good entertainment.

Those in the cast are Evelyn Embree, Marian Geldert, Dot Johnson,
Nancy Lawson, Mary Marsh, Fran
Martell, Mac Morrell, and Lou Morrison.

The Pine Hill presentation, entitled “The Judgment of India”, under the direction of Geoffrey Marshall, presents a story of a serious
vein and promises to have interest
ing scenic effects. The secretive
Pine Hillers refuse as yet to divulge
the names of the future Walter

 

sonable report of student activities.|:tampdens who will perform for
The Med representatives claimed | them.

   

  
 

  

 

DAL COUNCIL APPROVES YEAR BOOK SCHEME

UHOUDUULUVOS0ODUUUAEOOUEL UNE EL AE

  
 
  

TLUUOUODIQQOV0ERUDUUNSSNSLUL ASAE

 

 

Ss

No. 9

 

 

  
  

 

Has Returned

  

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
  

ERNEST RICHARDSON
Dalhousie’s N. F.C. U.S. representative, who was on the winning side
twice in three debates during the
past few weeks.

Report Debating Is
On Lower Plane In
States Universities

 

J. Ernest Richardson, Dalhousie
representative on the Maritime debating team that toured the Eastern
States, arrived back Friday night,
and reports a splendid trip, both
from a personal point of view, and
from the point of devates as well.

The tour was arranged under the
auspices of the N. F. C. U. S. and
the team was composed of Richardson from Dalhousie, and Morrissey
from U. N. B. It was the second
tour under this organization on which
Dalhousie was represented.

The team debated at seven points:
University of Maine, Bates, Harvard,
Springfield, Middlebury and N.Y. U.
Three of the debates were no-decision affairs, the procedure being
that the four debaters would discuss
the question, then it would be thrown
open to the house. This proved to
be very popular, both to the debaters

and the audience. Of the others,
they suffered their only defeat

against Springfield.

FADE AWAY.
Compared with other univer
sities, the criticisms which are
heard around the Campus con
cerning Dalhousie fade away.
The average audience was around
one hundred. General student
life was, in most cases, below
the standard at Dalhousie, and
one of the most marked differences between here and the colleges which they visited was the
almost complete lack of association and contact between the
faculty members and the students. The friendly meetings
and relations which characterize
all the societies at Dalhousie
they found at none of them,
they said.

The standard of debating stood
out in marked contrast. Here, all
our debates are conducted with a
freedom of speech and posture, while
across the line they found set
speeches, studied gestures, and all

(Continued on Page Four)

 

oted Speaker Goming to Dal

The Year Book

Applications For Positions of Editor
and Business Manager.

The Council of the Students has initiated plans for
the publication of a Dalhousie Year Book for 1935-36.

a

Heard Dr. Koo Talk
In England; Thinks
Him Rare Speaker

(By Prof. J. S. Thomson)

When I heard of Dr. Koo’s
coming visit to Halifax, and
especially to the student groups
of our colleges, I was delighted
that we are to have the opportunity of hearing a man of such
unigue personality and gifts.

I was carried back in memory to
a great city hall in Liverpool, England, where I first heard him speak.
At least 3,000 people must have
| been present, mostly students from
the British universities and colleges.
I see him standing up, a lithe, steellike figure, wearing the long robe of
la Chinese scholar with the large| seale map beside him. From his
|opening words one felt that here
was a rare type of speaker who
knows how to speak. ‘There was
nothing of florid oration, but in clear
idiomatic English, not the too per= language of one who is conscious all the time that he is speak*
ing in a foreign tongue, but in realiy fine diction he began and continued to talk. His subject was “The
New China”, and at the end of an
hour one knew more about what was
happening in that great country

(Continued on Page Four)

| are
Student’s Forum

Held At Theatre

The Students’ Council grant of
| $350 for hockey at Dalhousie during
the coming season should stand as
| passed, according to the opinion expressed last Thursday at the first
student forum to be held at Dalhousie this year, when discussion was
|led by John Fisher, who proposed
scheme of having a beer parlor

 

 

 

 

for Dalhousie men, on the campus.

Opening the meeting by explaining the purpose of
was to acquaint the
the problems before
let the Council know what the student body wanted, Fisher stated
ninety per cent of the crowd which
packed the chemistry theatre, came
for amusement.

Only two items on the lengthy
agenda were dealt with, hockey and
the year book. Silence prevailed
when the matter of the abolition of
Christmas exams. was brought up,
but debate on the question of the
hockey grant was hot. Outstanding among the arguments was that
of Grant of Law, who stated the
hockey league which the black-andgold .puck-chasers had entered, was
composed of firms seeking advertising.

At the close of these arguments,
Fisher’s proposal of beer parlors
where Dal men could gather and
discuss their problems over a glass

the gathering
students with
them, and to

(Continued on Page Four)

NOTICE
Due to the illness of the author
of “Take Your Medicine.” there

will be ne column by this author

this week. This popular feature
will reappear in next issue and }
continue as usual,

 

 

 
- alg a > z,
ue, ws es | oF ra 4 Eye e '
Oe ey nwa. Wy ee |
BARS" tk aie oad a |
aa A

 
   

— wet
. +

   
   

o oO Fe
me A RGW
he rs

an

ded 1869.

Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. S.

  

ef

  

_fe
| Sip

 

J. R. H. SUTHERLAND
: B. 5487

a Pe _ EDITORIAL STAFF
Bee a meet IRVING PINK
i S *. GREEN
, B. 4148 B. 2442
ey oe “ai Managing News Editor
eed va Ae we o eS. PHIL SARGEANT
en y vo B-7223
News Editor | Assistants
' JOHN TRACY LEN KITZ, BILL SUTHERLAND
Society . Editor Literary Editor Sports Editor
Se In ELISABETH BALLEM BEN DuBILIER
-#B. 2148 Staff Artist L. 3341
Cc. F. BENTLEY
Business Manager Assistant

B. 5737

 

A DEFENCE OF POLICY

A‘ the Students’ Council meeting Sunday the Gazette
' was openly accused of partiality. As far as we can
learn from hearsay the grievance, in short, was this:
There appeared in our columns last week a short news
-item, “four inches in length”, to be exact, regarding the
“coming Law dance to be held next Friday evening. This

, was termed by the Council “free advertising”

It has been the custom of student societies during the

* past few years to advertise special dances for at least two

    
  
 

issues of the Gazette, and in this way these societies in
some small way pass a part of their earnings into the coffers of the Students’ Council. This, it seems, is only fair,
and the Medical Society should be no exception. As was
probably noticed by the student body, the Medical advertisement appeared only once. It was cancelled by the officers of that group because they felt that they would receive sufficient “free advertising’. As a result no such
advertising appeared and the event passed unmentioned.
e group would not co-operate with us, so we could see no
reason for returning co-operation. We feel that we were
‘perfectly justified in our action. There was absolutely no
feeling of partiality on our part; it was strictly a matter of
‘business ethics.
‘* ~~ We feel that we have been entirely impartial, and we
‘shall continue our policy as before. If any society has any
‘grievance it should be told to use directly, and not aired in
‘a backhanded manner before the Students’ Council. That
body does not, and we feel sure that it will not, dictate
editorial policy to the Gazette. Criticism and suggestions

- ‘are always welcomed. Do not whisper them into the ear

of your neighbour. Bring them into us.

Ol n We can take it,
although a number of others cannot.

 

‘© A TAVERN IN THE SCHOOL

He T AST week, at a meeting of the students—a students’

    

Bo
eo
hale i 
ee

ane 2
‘ a
“J Py

wa

ead

oy ’
hak ies

f
. 22 0).
ae, fe
.
Pad

a) stent me Sires
aie e
nae

: i
: AS i
rhe Ca!

“ forum, the suggestion of a “pub”, under the
name of a union room, was suggested for Dalhousie.
The idea of a students’ union is an excellent one and
should be fostered and made a reality if at all possible, but
the idea of a tavern in the University should be killed in
the bud.

We all know that an idea like that draws the interest
of the mob and makes an interesting meeting. But if a
forum cannot be conducted in an interesting manner
without raising questions of this type, then we should not
have them at all. The very thought is preposterous.
How many parents would send their children to a university
which encourages drinking amongst its student body?
Students wonder why registration in our University does
not increase; thoughts like that from the student body are
in no way helpful to our school.

_. The whole matter has raised a situation which in no
way throws any bouquets at our school. The local “rags”
picked up the story and slapped it all over the page.

- The people responsible for the whole matter should be

strongly censored: first, the students who were assinine
enough to even raise the idea; secondly, the reporters for
the local newspapers on Studley Campus, and finally, and
to the greatest degree, the papers who snatched up a bit
of nonsensical news, and managed in that way to throw a
mud-pie at Dalhousie University.

TEN CENTS A DANCE

SHALL we have periodic dances in our gymnasium? That
~~ was the question submitted to some of the members of
the student body and faculty by the Gazette last week.
Not one of these persons asked why we should have such
dances; what is the object of such an idea? They all replied yes or no as the case was, without much hesitation
or thought.

It seems to us that the thought behind such an idea
is to enable those students who cannot generally take in
the hotel dances, to indulge in this form of recreation at a

- nominal fee which he or she can afford, but this is only one
half of the thought, the other half is to establish a closer
feeling of fellowship. If these are the ideas behind these
dances they are fated to be a collosal failure. The first
‘dance may have a large turnout, but the ones after that
‘will prove as big a success as the memorable “pep” rally
Of two weeks ago.

The same cliques that go to all the other dances will
be there. For them it will be just another way of spend‘img an evening; but what about the other fellow—the person for whom these dances are really sponsored? Where
will he or she be? We do not desire to appear too pessimistic or censorous, but these people will witness a certain
crowd enjoying themselves, they will find themselves looking on; they will begin to feel sorry for themselves, feel
that it hurts them to have to look on and not be able to
take part in the revelry, go home, and will not come to one
‘of these affairs again.

i That is what will happen, and unless the whole student

body will turn out with the idea of having a lot of fun—
everyone with everyone else—the idea should not be given
. hy a second thought.

jn * ‘

DOUGLAS CREASE

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

HATCHING

“Many things”, says Sancho Panza,
“happen during the boiling of
an egg.”

Everything must have a_ beginning, but where did any ionething
actually have its beginning? The
historian talks in terms of “movements”, the artist in terms of
“schools”, yet there is no well-defined division line, no safe criterion
by which to decide. Topsy was
born full-grown; history and historical monuments have not been
and are mot so born today. The
difficulty accordingly remains of determining when any particular
movement or circumstance has become so distinguished from its surrounding as to be worthy of a separate name and of separate consideration. Men who are able to discern these things before they become the common property of the
multitude are looked up to and respected. Often remarks are passed
about their uncanny ability to forsee the future and unerringly foretell what it holds. Such men realized that the wold would be plunged into the horrors of war long before the clash in 1914; they glimpsed the world-wide state of depression following shortly after thie
war; they did not become excited
nor did they cry out for extraordinary remedies when the situation
actually presented itself. These
men took it all in their stride. Of
whom is this written? Not of the
men whose names and pictures are
spread continent-wide upon the
largest selling newspapers, not of
the great men in the political world
or in finance, but of those quiet persons who form the steadying and
safeguarding influence in our
country, is this written.

Much has been written regarding
the function of a university; much
more will be written. What, however, is the sign of a “university
man”? The colors he wears, or the
gold letter he sports, or the fraternity pin he gives away in foolish
youth? Scarcely these, not yet the
“Klassy Kollege Kut Klothes” whi

 

he is supposed to wear, nor his abil- |

ity to dance all night every night,
nor to drink the layman under the
table in so-called Oxford style,
would afford a suitable basis for
distinction in sixty years. There
must be something else—or nothing.

A submission, may it please you.
Many things do happen during the
boiling of an egg. One who has
boiled enough eggs and examined
them before and after, as well as
during their boiling, will be able to
tell the inexperienced novice many
wonders which the latter had not
expected. He will astound the newcomer with his learning. When a
university man returns to his community, especially in these Maritime Provinces, he is expected to
have that indescribable ability which
has already been described of prognosticating anything from _ the
weather for the Church picnic to
the situation of the flypaper market
in the Fiji Islands if Persia goes off
the godl standard. Not merely is he
a moveable encyclopedia, but he
combines with that function the indispensable qualities of Belcher’s
Almanac. His opportunity is readymade for him. Rarely he takes advantage of it. Either he expands
himself too widely so that his erstwhile admirers’ perceive that their
god is made of tin and straw, or he
sinks into somnolence and increasing ineptitude for the task which
lies before him. Not merely in the
political and economic fields in his
advice sought: his entire outlook,
his general philosophy of life, if
given an opportunity, will influence
innumerable persons about him.
What he considers trifling, common
knowledge, if imparted without
show of superiority, will aid many
another and be considered as great
learning, the result of a college
education.

To see things hatching, that is
one of the greatest assets which a
man can possibly take out into the
world with him when he leaves his
restricted nurturing within a modern college. Be not of the mob who
wait until the newspapers uncover
the story and then stand about
amazed and gasping. Know it long
beforehand, not in order to say, “I
told you so”, but that you may have
prepared yourself in order that you
may do what is best for yourself,

 

 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
     

‘

Friday, November 22, 1935

 

THE

OBSERVATORY

(By Observer)

 

We are beginning to hear again
this year rumors of an outdoor skating rink at Dal. This venture has been
advocated by some, for a few years
past, but to the most liberal minded
the idea is generally consigned to the
rubbish heap.

Most elementary in the objections
of such savants is of course the fact
of the inconsistency of the Halifax
winter. Unlike Quebec, for example,
where one may be pretty sure of
frost when once it comes, we are apt
to be delayed in turn by rain or snow
as the whims of the Nova Scotian
weather man may direct. Thus, no
game schedule could be worked out,
because we are so utterly at the
mercy of a vicarious climate.

It is urged, too, that more money
would be spent in this way than is
already allowed for hockey supporters, and as we all know that’s far
too much as it is.

Leaving aside the fact that the

reason when an outdoors rink could!

be used is very short, ‘they strengthen their objections with the final
blow—Much of the hockey will have
to be played in the afternoon after
classes, and such an arrangement
would necessitate lighting facilities
on the rink grounds.

So taking it, all in all, Observer
is inclined to favour thumbs down
on the outdoor rink. What do you
think ?

 

Observer has always believed him- |

self to be fairly shock-proof, even
when free ink comes to the Library,,
but he failed to meet the test when
confronted with the notice in the
Arts buildings asking for volunteers
for Editor and Business Manager for
the Year Book. Probably he should
be reprimanded for not attending
Council meetings, but then as you
know that sort of thing is just not
done at Dal. But we wonder who

    

: peathe brave gentlemen to answer the cry from the Council Wilderness. |Have we, at Dal, a man of
such strength of mind, or of such
abundance of overflowing egotism as
to believe himself equal to the task
demanded? We admit that it will be
a real test of Dal stamina, the fact
that the jobs are open indicates
strongly to pertinacity of our
Council.

They obviously believe in the request to “try, try again.” Anyway,
whoever the enterprising persons
may be, we say don’t be discouraged
if you fail; better men have ’ere
now tried and lost.

Do the students want a Year Book,
anyway? Yes probably, but will they
pay $3.00 for it? Now we ean see.
Our guess it that it will fall through
again, so wasting another hundred
bucks of the students money, and
we’re not a member of any ninetynine per cent clubs. Anyway, time
will tell!

At the University of Toronto the
Students’ Christian Movement is negotiating for a men’s and women’s
joint common room, so the boys and
girls can get together on equal footing. This sound more like a Students’ Matrimonial Movement. How
would that be for Dal?

 

and that your calm and considered
action may be an example for that
mob who cannot think for themselves. A college education will not
stuff any man with enough facts to
enable him to leave its walls with
a complete copy of “What to Do in
Any Given Circumstance.” It should
give him the background of ability
to think, to put his thoughts together, to correlate instances, to
perceive truth and separate it from
half-truth, to take the long view, to
see things in their proper perspective, to stand firmly behind his decision, carefully made. If he can
stand off and view his circumstances with the half-concealed
thought: “What difference will it
make in a hundred years?” he will
be a happier and a better man for it.
That, may it please you, is the suggestion for a criterion of the “university man”: he can understand
the value and significance of what is
hatching, or even of what is taking
place as the water merrily boils.

  

<2 POET’S CORNER ®&

  

MOTHER, THE SEA

I seek for peace upon your breast to-night,
Mother of Life and soothing bride of dreams.
Naked I come to you, for so beseems

A worshipper, although the world indict.

Hold me upon your heart and let me be

A lover, childlike, seeking only calm.

O rain your kisses, bitter-sweet! Hmbalm
My soul, protect it from the fouling Me!

With warm caress she takes me. I forget
The impeding meshes which conventions fling
Upon my rebel shoulders. Peace I find.
Deep, deep, I press me, deep and deeper yet.
Held im her liquid arms I hear her sing
My wedding-hymn and lullaby combined.

 

THINK

 

By order-in-council dated October
31, Canada banned the export of
arms and munitions to Italy. By that
of November 16, extension of loans
and credits to Italy on all imports
from. her and the export to her of

Key products useful for military
operations, including nickel and copper are prohibited. To prevent shipment to Italy via the United States
it is provided that exporters of goods
later suspected of having reached
Italy must prove delivery elsewhere.
Unless they can do this, or shew that
they took reasonable precautions to
prevent ultimate shipment to Italy,
the exporters will be fined $500.
*
Almost one hundred million dollars
worth of property has accrued to the
United States government because of
default on loans made by the government to the former owners. The collection of properties varies from
jails to sewers, but for the most part
is composed of farms. Perhaps our
neighbor to the South is going quietly communistic. .

* + ¢

Further rioting has occurred in
Egypt. That country is supposedly
an independent state but in reality
is a British protectorate. Five years
ago the constitution of 1923 was supplanted by another which was abrogated last year. Since then Egypt
has been governed by decree.

The Nationalist Party has sought
self-government. It deems the present Italian crisis an auspicious
occasion in which to secure it in return for Egyptian allegiance. The
Egyptian government did not support the Party in its demands; and
Sir Samuel Hoare seemed in a recent

SOMETHING TO |

 

 

 

ABOUT

speech to favor the maintainence of
the status quo.

The day before the British elections a demonstration took place in
Cairo against Britain; several of the
mob were killed by the police. Egypt
is of great strategic value to England for its possession means control.
of the route to India and Australia.
It is ironic that, at the moment

  

' Britain leads the world against Im
perialistic conquest the ghost of her
own African conquests arise to
plague her,

* # *

The ridiculous consequences. that.
sometimes result from a bureaucracy
is illustrated in the United States.
The Resettlement Administration
Board was one of a group formed to
provide work for the unemployed.
Its program calls for the expenditure:
of a quarter of a million dollars,
So far work has been found for five
thousand persons who receive a payroll of $300,000 a month. The staff
of the Board numbers twelve thousand with a monthly payroll of
$1,750,000. The scarcer jobs become
the more jobs will be necessarily be
created. Unfortunately this delightful method of solving the depression
is meeting with severe criticism.

* ok *

During the past few weeks the
local newspapers have heen decrying
the presence of slot machines in our
fair city. These machines for the
most part are played by people who
can well afford to gamble. No one
directs the way people should earn
their money, and why criticize the
way people spend it? If any protest
should be raised it should be against
the exorbitant tax rate levied by the
city..

 

 

 

— WHERE THE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE —

 

Overcoats

Overcoats

Overcoats

and thick men.

All colors—all styles—all sizes.
short men, tall men, thin men,

Coats for

$1 9.50

Priced from...

Hundreds of PURE WOOL SCARVES to

choose from, including most of the
Clan Tartans—only

SHA

MEN’S

$7 .00

NE’S

SHOP

THIRTY SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

—— DISCOUNT OF 10% TO ALL STUDENTS ——

 

 
 
   

__ meditation.”

of
<i

day, November 22, 1935

_ Martha Godfrey woke that morning with the realization that for the
first time in her life, she was all

alone in the house. Her parents, and
her sister and brother had left the
_ - evening before for the week-end and
she had welcomed the thought of
_-—- peace—that is, last night, she had.
Now the absolute quiet made her

Yebellious, and she reached a hand

to the telephone to call Jerry to take

her to lunch. Then something made

her pause, “You grow your best

‘thoughts in silence, solitude and
Where did I read that?
Some school-book, I suppose. Oh,
the curse of a retentive memory.”
And she lifted the telephone from its
‘table, but the significance of the

X , _ phrase ‘best thoughts’ crept into her

mind and she put the telephone back.
“Best thoughts, I haven’t any

‘thoughts at all. Funny, isn’t it?
Goodness, I don’t know what I think

-about anything, love, marriage, God,
I’d hate to have to answer for
my sins this minute.” And she
- laughed, leaping out of bed.

She rang for Sampson, humming
a song. She leaned out of the window, the wet smell of city-streets in
rain came to her nostrils and she
said—

“The damp souls of housemaids’
mow where did I hear that? I’m in
a quotation mood today. This is
fun,” and she pressed her body hard
on the window-ledge and put her
head out as far as she could. “Oh,
dear, I’m weary of this view—
houses, apartments, shops—and tram
car tracks.. Poor things.” Sampson
came in and Martha ran up to her
crying, “Just thing, Samp, in the

helter-skelter of my life, this is the
very first time I’ve ever been alone
with nothing to do. Tragic, isn’t
it?”

“No, Miss Martha, it’ll do you
good. Everyone should be alone
sometimes.”

“Why do people have to be alone?”
and Martha’s blue eyes had a mischievous glance.

“How can you know yourself if
you aren’t alone?”

_ “Samp, you’re sententious,” and

Martha laughed. “Why should I

“want to know myself? I hate delv
‘ig T A, Mie os f = I ° {es ay . re ; no " en y E ‘
a j -,* , v im) ay _? Sh yo +
fic * i aera a ‘ 4 :

7 ‘ _— < > p . :
: ,

FACE TO FACE

GAZETTE’S SHORT STORY

ing into souls.” And shaking her
head, she refused to say any more

but finished dressing. She ate her

breakfast in the same silence, her
mouth compressing every now and
then, her eyes serious with a mocking gleam showing fitfully.

After breakfast, she went up to
her room and put on her coat and
hat; she was arrested at the mirror
by the strange look of determination
on her face, while she was conscious
within her of no feeling at all.

All thoughts and emotions seemed
to be hurrying before her as leaves
before a wind. She took her car and
drove through the city, street after
street, mile after mile, her cheeks
stinging with the raw air. She
came, finally, to a country district.

It was late November; the trees
stood bare and immaculate against
the grey sky. “I like them that way
—they aren’t pretending anymore”,
Martha found herself thinking She
stopped the car and walked up to the
top of a hillock and stood looking
down at the farms spread out below
—dingy barns and lifeless houses
grouped diffidently together.

A man came out of one of the
houses and stood blowing upon his
red fingers. Martha felt herself absorbed in the scene, drawn by some
invisible hand into this maze of life
with no individuality of her own left
to mutter incoherencies.

A woman came out of the house
after the man, calling, “Jim, Jim
dear, you forgot your mittens.” He
came running over and she put them
on, laughing up at him. Martha saw
that the woman’s face was chapped
with the cold, her hair tipsy, and her
apron soaked with water, but something in the glad way the man held

‘out his hands for the mittens and

in the assurance of the woman’s
laugh stabbed her with the desire to
understand their bulwark against
mean comforts and “five and ten cent
dishes” said Martha almost viciously.

The woman went back into the
house and Martha stood looking and
looking at the houses and barns until
tears filled her eyes and she ran
back to the car, stumbling over the
abrasions on the hard ground.

 

—_

WHEN YOUR NOTICE FROM

THE CLUB ISN’T SO GOOD

IVUUL LL UL

\
cs
ath
“
~

 

THE BEST

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

 

 

There are two types of so-called
student leaders which get in my
hair. The first is the orator, the
bally-hoo artist, who, for the sake
of practicing throwing his line, to
pat hig superiority complex on the
back, delights in leading the vulgar
mob of ordinary students around by
a ring through the nose; it would
be all right, the best thing possible
for the college, if he really had a
sincere interest in promoting the
good of the college, but it so often
seems that he is doing little more
than satisfying his own ego. The
other type is the student who is
over-serious in his attempt to pursue the good of all; he is the type
who somewhat stubbornly and pigheadedly forces his ideas on every
body for better or for worse. He is
sure that only his ideas are right
and that nobody else has anything
which might contribute to student
well-being. It would be all right if
there were more of this sort—then
the errors stubbornly followed by
one would be offset by the mistakes
of the others.

This all reminds me of a litte conversation which I had with an innocent freshman the other day. The
freshman came up to me and respectfully asked me whether John
Fisher was President of the Council. “No,” I replied, “No, my youthful friend, Hal Taylor is President
of the Council.” Having mentally
masticated this morsel, he came
back and asked whether George
Thompson was President of the D.
A. A. C. Again, with a mournful
sigh, I had to reply that Ed. Barnhill was President of the D. A. A.
C. Of course, this freshman should
not be too severely censured for his
mistake—the ignorance of the frosh
is proverbial.

The omniscient mud-slinger has
heard somplaints around the campus about how basketball is being
run this year. Why, I have heard
some ask, has the basketball squad
been so drastically reduced so early
in the season, and why have
some of your young hopefuls been
stopped from their fond pursuit of
a position on the team. There have
even been rumors of favoritism and
“pull”. But then, perhaps for practical purposes of practice it has been
necessary to make the squad less
bulky. The same complaints have
been heard with regard to hockey
from such as “Riff-Raff” Victor.
But then, I don’t know much about
basketball or hockey, and these
criticisms may be quite unjustified.
If so, apologies, Ian and Johnny.

Ernie Richardson has returned
from his debating tour, and he
brings word that he wouldn’t exchange Dalhousie for any of the
under-graduate schools which he
visited, and that perhaps, relatively speaking, there is nothing wrong
with Dalhousie. That being the
case, this column is perhaps serving
mo purpose as well as being sloppily
written. Ernie also brings back, incidentally, a delightfully story about
being caught in embarassing circumstances in a_ ladies’ lavatory
which he entered by mistake.

One thing which we can’t understand is the short-sighted policy of
the city papers with regard to their
treatment of Dalhousie news. True
it is that their reports are accurate
enough as far as their verbal content goes, but where they are at
fault is in their manner of handling,
displaying, headlining, etc. The result is that many parents of innocent might-be Dalhousians in Ecum
Secum and Pictou County are led
to believe that the college by the
sea ig a den of iniquity. Examples
come to mind very easily—the ballyhoo about initiation and college
dances a few years ago, hockey
scandal of last year, etc., etc., even
the headlines about beer parlors last
week. I am convinced that Dal is
superior to any maritime college in
moral standards, academic standards or what have you; yet the
rural reader, and the town reader
too, is led subtly to believe that
ours is the worse possible institution to which to send their lovely
off-spring. Admittedly the papers
do not purposely do this, and they
have to make their news as sensational as ‘possible, yet it seems to me
that, without realizing it, they
have been dealing a pretty nasty

    
 

We can’t see anything wrong with
allowing Dalhousians to have hotel
rooms during dances. We admit that
we are young and inexperienced in
the ways of the world, so we should
be guided by the experience of
others. However, we can agree with
the edict on the ground of economy.
And just what usually happens in
these rooms that affords the Sewing
Circle of Smallville a perennial topic
of conversation? We shudder to
think about this after reading a
back-page interview with the
Gazette’s roving correspondent last
week. Assuming the worst, is holding hands more virtuous when done
outside of a hotel room, e.g., in a
taxi, behind the pillars and in the
shades at Shirreff Hall, or even outside the gym at the annual Students’
Council dance? Personally, we think
the edict is aimed not a rooms but
at rumors.

* * *

We have often thought that if the
parties were half as good (or bad,
depending upon your point of view)
as Miss Esmerelda Smitthers, president of the aforementioned school
for scandal, hears from the local
representative of the Society for the
Propagation of Malicious and Suspicious stories, that it would be indeed a pleasure to attend said
party. But you and we know that
such a story is like a snowball rushing down the hill. We always think
about the animated conversation between the two co-eds:

Says the first: “My dear, have you
heard about Helen?”

Says the second: “Why no, I’ve
been asleep for the last five minutes.”

The first beams jovially. “My
dear, is she lucky! She’s going to
marry a very rich man... etc.”

Rich, perhaps, in these days—let’s
see—he’s just fallen heir to a vast
estate, consisting of one heavily
mortgaged farm in dear old Pictou
county, 3 shares of Blondes First
Preferred (and since Jean Harlow
dyed her hair this is practically
valueless) and $3.04 owed to the
Students’ Council since 1926 B, M.
(Before Murray).

eS

We were somewhat astounded by
the little lady from Truro. She is
of the opinion that dances in the
Gymn would be a splendid idea because they would eliminate exclusiveness and petting. We never
thought that Dalhousie dances were
exclusive, nor had we considered
that petting was confined to hotel
dances. Being a _ discrete person
herself, she knows that it isn’t! Incidentally, we wonder if she has not
made a mistake in terminology!

* * *

“Best Story of the Year”: by the
writer of the advertisement for the
Law dance—“The number of tickets
is limited, so be sure to get yours
early.” Can’t you see the Committee standing at the foot of the grand
stairway announcing, “Sorry, but
we have exceeded our quota. The
management of the hotel has only
three hundred of those pastry shells
in which is placed the chicken, oysters or lobsters, and so we cannot
let you in. They did have three hundred and twenty-five, but some were
accidentally broken at the Med dance.
We’re sorry, but you’ll have to go
elsewhere for your necking.”

blow to Halifax’s biggest industry.
I am not suggesting that they
should go to the other extreme of

exaggerating our good points, but

I do think that it is extremely foolish for them to give the false impression that Dalhousians are frivolous, immoral, and inherently playboyish. What applies to the papers
applies equally to the student reporters on the city dalies—let them
not in their pursuit of the filthy
luche and space fillers forget that
after all they are Dalhousie students.

_—_—. ows sXKkr rw rr aaa NR ee ee

       
   
   
     
   
  
     
   

It isn't a matter of chance
that Turret Cigarettes are
so popular. Their finer
tobaccos have won for them
the nation-wide preference
that quality alone creates.
Smoke Turrets yourself, and
get the same satisfaction
other Turret smokers enjoy!

  

  

It 1sn’t a matter
of chance |

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGARETTES

SAVE THE VALUABLE POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

 

SHIRREFF HALL

GIRL SUES

FOR BREACH OF PROMISE

IN THE SUPREME MUTE COURT
OF DALHOUSIE

DORA DUMM, blonde, (Plaintiff)
vs.
OTTO NOBETTER (Defendant)

Case as reported in 303 Rifle
Reports

This case was tried before Mr.
Justice Dentz-Fogg without a jury
at the Fall sittings of the Civil
Court.. Mr. Ivan Offlekase was
counsel for the Plaintiff and Mr. A.
Pierre Atbar for the Defendant.

The plaintiff is suing for breach of
promise and also for damages sufferer for not being allowed out nights
for a whole week due to the defen
dant’s negligence. The defendant
counterclaims for the loss of a fraternity pin the property of the defendant which was loaned to the
plaintiff by the defendant and now
wrongfully withheld by the plaintiff.

The first witness called by Mr.
Offlecase was the blonde plaintiff
herself. In her evidence she disclosed
that she was five foot three, weighed
one hundred and nine and three quarter pounds in her stocking feet, liked
chocolates, polar pies and Red Payne
and adored Bing Crosby and men
with kindly faces and cute moustaches like the judge’s, was a Freshette, came from Ecum Secum and
was now at Shireff Hall. She explained that she met the defendant at a
Glee Club show and that he had said
that he would take her home.

The Judge: Did he have a mortgage on your home?

A: My Lord no, er I mean no my
Lord.

The Judge: Then under what right
could he take your home?

Mr. Offlecase then explained that
what the witness meant was that
the defendant has expressed his desire to escort the witness to her
temporary domicile under cover of
darkness.

The plaintiff then went on to say
that the defendant, Otto Nobetter,
had taken her to a dance at a Fraternity House on the following night.

The Judge: Didn’t the music keep
the babies awake?

A: What babies?

The Judge: The babies in the hospital where the dance was.

A: The dance wasn’t in a hospital
but at a Fraternity House.

The Judge: Pardon me, I thought
you said “Maternity House”.

The left the party about 12.55 a.m.
and the defendant took the plaintiff
for a drive in his coupe. Somewhere
along the St. Margaret’s Bay Road
the plaintiff felt that it must have
been a long way from home because
it was so dark, they stopped as he
had to change a tire.

The Judge: Do you mean to say
the defendant undressed in the presence of you, a lady

A: He didn’t undress, he just start
 

ed to change the tire with all his
clothes on.

The Judge: Oh, I thought you said
he stopped to change attire.

It appeared that the defendant encountered difficulties as he had no
light and the plaintiff said that he
had used vulgar, uncouth, abusive,
coarse and disgusting language, and
he -went so far as to suggest that
the tire was of canine parentage,
and he also told the plaintiff to go
to a place of fire and brimstone when
she said “now count ten Otto.” (The
defendant later denied this and
claimed that all he said was “Shucks
I got some pitch of a tire,” and
that he told the plaintiff that she
had better go to Halifax, but that a
car passed then and she couldn’t hear
the last syllable.) Whereupon the
plaintiff, unaccustomed to such treatment, burst into tears, causing even
the hard-hearted defendant to be
touched so that he immediately left
the tire and undertook to console the
plaintiff by tender words and deeds.
This took about an hour or so. Then
they decided to finish the tire, so the
planitiff held a cigarette lighter
while defendant did the work. She
said she only touched his ear twice
with the flame and all he said was
“Gosh your nose is warm honey.”

They drove back to the Hall but
before parting he gave her his frat
pin to keep close to her heart in
memory of him. She declared that
he also intimated that they were
really engaged and were fiance and
fiancee, if not soon man and wife.
When asked just what the defend:
said to make her think this, she replied that he had said “Toodle-doo,
Cuddles, I’ll give you a ring tomorrow.” The witness then stated that
she only waited on the step for a
second. (A subsequent witness Miss
Katt, whose window was over the
front door contradicted this and said
that she distinctly heard a fourth. )

When the plaintiff got in she found
that it was 3.23 a.m. and that Miss
McKeen seemed a little annoyed as
she had told miss Dumm to be in at
one o’clock sharp. The result was
that the poor mistreated plaintiff
wasn’t allowed out another night all
that week all because of the carelessness of the nasty defendant in
not bringing her home on time. Consequently when Otto called up to ask

er to go to a show she told him
why she couldn’t go and just whose
fault it was too. Evidence was then
introduced to show that he had wilfully, cruelly and thoughtlessly taken
out Ginger Pye, a red-headed waitress from a downtown cafe. The
plaintiff hasn’t spoken to the dedefendant since.

In cross-examination by Mr. Atbar,
the plaintiff admitted that she at one
time had a date with a married man.

(Continued on Page Four)

stg sag

|

   
    
   

a

       
  

ES

*

SENIORS

al

 

_ INCOMMERCIAL L

Se ribet dan lacee el

 

With senior and intermediate
rugby through for the year, Dalhousie University athletes are
once more turning to the winter
sports of key and basketball. This year, Dalhousie has
entered the City Independent
League, consisting of three other
- teams—Wanderers, Blue Sunoco
and Imperial Oil—an ambitious
undertaking, according to many
of the students.

Friday night at the Forum, the
Tigers will take the ice against the
Wanderers in the opening game of
the schedule. Though rumored to
be the weakest of the four entries,
Manager Carroll believes his “boys”
will not only hold their own in competition, but have excellent chances
of copping the senior B title. And
this is no idle boast, for with eight
men of last year’s squad back—Car
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
   
       
     
   
       
     
       
      
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

Select Your

Sports
Equipment

Ap

PHINNEYS

BASKETBALL
- BADMINTON
SKATES, SHOES
HOCKEY SUPPLIES
BOXING GLOVES

Priced

at

&T.

camels stieecareiicuntaaesiesmsneeesilicensiiii emmapeaesaneeetioegenimaerensammetneenstttaetemntentiaeinammnimenst > cikeuiaiaameens=aaianiaetttiatiaa ie aan

TOP OFF YOUR WINTER OUTFIT WITH AN

There are
Sizes 6% to 7%.
MARITIMES LIMITED

Gatonia HAT

4.50

Visit EATON’S Men’s Hat Department and see the range of
smart models offered in the EATONIA group!

medium and dark greys, browns, and fawns in the popular snap
brim styles, a few with bound edge brims. All are neatly lined
and fitted with leather sweat-bands.

Eaton’s Main Floor

roll, Cohn, Stanfield, Graham, Mullane, Buckley, Patton and Godwin—
and with two stars of other teams
at the College—Bus Walker of the
Digby Ravens, and Karl Tufts of
Dartmouth—the wearers of the Black
and Gold should this year be a team
worthy of Dalhousie’s once famed
hockey name.

TEAM TO BE SELECTED.

The team which will represent the
University against Wanderers will be
selected from the following: Goals:
Prat Howie, Bob McLellan; Defence:
Tufts, Carrol, Connor, MacGregor,
Asbell; Forwards: Buckley, Cohn,
Stanfield, Walker, Graham, Mullane,
Patton, Smith, Harris, Godwin, Marshall, Napier.

In a drive for student support,
Mr. Carroll has arranged for busses
to transport rooters to the Forum
from the Studley gymnasium.

0

Heard Dr. Koo

(Continued from Page One)

than he could gather from the study
of many books and articles.

Dr. Koo has the gift of exposition, and you are not wrong in suspecting that it is the outcome of a
singularly lucid mind. He is never
verbose or woolly: he gets to the
point and sticks at it. But he is
also a great patriot. In Dr. Koo,
one feels that the old China of immemorial culture has been re-born
into this ardent young nationalist.
Intense, yet not strained, seriousminded, and yet lighting up his
speeches with flashes of humor, this
Chinese leader has impressed men

This will be a new type of Chinese
for many Canadians. We associate
the Chinese with laundries and “chop
suey” restaurants. But here is China
coming to us with a voice that claims
to be heard in its own right. This
is not the “yellow peril”, but the
awakened East, for Dr. Koo represents a small but vigorous and hopeful group who come from a nation
that was civilized while the redskin
roamed the Canadian forest, and
northern Europeans were hunting
their prey with flint-arrows.

Dr. Koo will not speculate as to
the future, but will speak with authority on what is taking place now,
and he will do so with knowledge,
with charm and with persuasive
power. I bespeak a welcome, respectful and cordial, from Dalhousie.

EATON C°

Yaa, SS. =
2 ob ete.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

(Continued from Page One)

 

Christian Association of China, with
special responsibilities toward the

When she was asked to tell about it|colleges and universities, to which
her counsel objected on the grounds|later was added the cultivation of
that the evidence was irrelevant. The |better international relations.

Judge, however, over-ruled this objection as such evidence was found
to be interesting, even if not strictly
relevant to the case at bar. In fact
it proved so interesting that his lordship fell off the bench in attempting
to bend forward so as not to miss a
word the witness said.

When the plaintiff was asked what
she did with the defendant’s fraternity pin, she said that she couldn’t
understand the letters on its as they
were all Greek to her, so she used the
pin to fasten a couple of sheets of
a Latin composition together.

The defenant was then called to
the witness stand and said that he
was taking Medicine (The Judge:
Before or after Meals?) Among his
studies was Pharmacology. Counsel
for the defence then had some difficulty persuading the Judge that
pharmacology had nothing whatever
to do with agriculture. Mr. Offlekase in cross-examination asked the
witness if he considered what he had
said when he was changing the tire
as the proper way to talk in the
presence of a lady. The defendant’s
counsel then explained that his client
could not be expected to know any
better as he came from Cape Breton
and besides it had not been proved
that the plaintiff was a lady.

In summing up his case, Mr. Ivan
Offlekase said that he had been at
the bar for a long time before he
undertook this case. This doubtlessly explained the odor of alcohol pervading in the Court Room.) He
urged that the Judge find for the
plaintiff as it was apparent that she
had greatly suffered both from the
defendant’s breach of promise and
from not being allowed out nights
due to the defendant keeping her out
so late. Mr. Atbar then urged that
the defendant had suffered damage
from the failure of the plaintiff to
return his pin as he wanted to give
it to another girl, and that the defendant had not proposed marriage
to the plaintiff, and that it was her
own fault that she stayed out too
late.

After asking the plaintiff what
nights she would be free and what
kind of shows she liked, the Judge
adjourned the Court saying that he
would reserve judgment and weigh
the evidence carefully before coming
to a definite conclusion.

Judgment reserved.

(To Be Continued)

CASINO

STARTING SATURDAY
NOVEMBER 23rd.

CLARENCE E. MULFORD’S

HOP-A-LONG
CASSIDY

with
WILLIAM BOLD
*

PLUS 4 SHORTS

 

BIRKS.-
Dance favors that are

intriguing — cherished
long after the occasion
these may be had at
Birks.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

 

aie

 

The more recent years have been
spent, first as associate general secretary of the China National Committee; latterly and after his resigination from this position he has
been giving most of his time to
work among “the students both in
China’ and in co-operation with the
World’s Student Christian Federation and in visiting countries as
widely separated as India, Australasia, Europe, and the the third time
North America.

 

Oo

Report Debating
(Continued from Page One)

speeches were timed. At one college
a timer stood out in front, and used
a device comporable to the timing
clock used in the Forum, and at the
conclusion of the allotted time he
stood up in his place and signalled
the speaker,

From Fred Fraser, who graduated in Law last spring, and
now at Harvard taking postgraduate work, came the information that debating in general
at Harvard is well below the
standard at the Law School, and
the comment that the Maritime
team was outstanding in their
debate there.

Mr. Richardson has achieved an
enviable position in debating. Two
years ago he was a member of the
Dalhousie Intercollegiate team which

 

THE WAON
MUST BE BIGHT.

we refer to the wrong side, we mean,

of course, the inside, but we do not refer only

to the lining which is all you can see on the in
side. Between the lining and the fabric, there are

many highly technical operations which can only
be done well by skilled craftsmen.

Twenty-five years of tailoring experience has
taught us to carry out these operations efficiently.
The foundation which is formed by a canvas, must
be constructed and placed with meticulous care.
The choice of suitable Hymo is an all-important
factor, because this material when properly
moulded, brings out the smart lines in the lapels.

We have selected Spun Haircloth that forms a
foundation which insures a shapely coat. This is
so woven that it does away with the irritation of
horse hair working its way through the fabric.
These are some of the hidden advantages that
assure you Tip Top satisfaction.

LADIES!
You may now order mannish

tailored coats — tailored to your
personal measurement.

EVEN

 

 

housie Opens Hockey Activities
TAKE PLACE Shirreff Hall Girl Dr. T. Koo

OOP ““s-;
(Continued from Page Three)

i

 

Friday, November 22, 1985

‘ also served the purpose of a year-debated Acadia. Last year he led | } Sok.

Dalhousie against U. N. B., MeGill | The question of what is to be
and Ottawa, going into the semi- done in this matter was deferred
finals in the Radio debates, and this

year, in the seven debates, he lost
but one. His record is the finest
ever made by a Dalhousie debater
and an appreciation of his work has
been made to him on all sides by his
fellow students.

until another meeting, as was the
matter of dances under the spon| Sorship of the Council. The latter
’1/item was barely mentioned at the:
meeting.

 

0

Students Forum
(Continued from Page One)

 

 

of ale brought a storm of approv- |
ing cheers from the assembly.

Although nothing was done in the
matter of the year-book, the tone of
the meeting indicated most of the
assembled students approved of the
idea of having one.

Leo Laundreéville after outlining |
the plans of other colleges labelled |
the practice of putting out a stu-|
dents’ directory at Dal a racket. |
Laudreville stated other colleges put |
out a nicely bound directry, which |

 

 

TODAY, SAT., MON.

 

WALLACE BEERY
JACKIE COOPER

—I

O’SHAUGHNESSY’S
BOY

Shows at 2.00, 3.30, 7.00
and 9.00.

Saturday Continuous.

 

    
  

&

  

UNRESTRICTED CHOICE
OF BRITISH WOOLLENS

24

TAILORED TO
YOUR MEASURE

S8B

i OA
442 Barrington Street
Halifax, N. S.

‘un
