 
    
 
   
   

= /
;
{
Hl
ae
x, .
—
, *
ha
I y ,

tne

IUUUQUUELENOSECUAUAA nO

—UUDUUUUNULI TEMA
al

eee

| Gazette’s
eye

“six y -Seventh

a

‘+o T

| Birthday

   

ae
i = ie,

t;
NEEM
“_ *, —- 
Lega

VOL.

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
       
    
    
      
   
   

tinue!

prim!’

poet ma college paper!”’

improvement.

m 1936.

January3l, 1936.

us 4 am Pag 5 a a vi
Pee Ff et x 5 el i
wee |. 7 i. €
ia ts ie wo re me 4) ‘ 
Bi ay ts i - ee t ; / }

CARLETON STANLEY.

 

 

Happy Birthday, Gazette

I congratulate the Dalhousie Gazette on passing
more than two-thirds of a century. Long may wv con
It enters my head to ask whether other readers
have been curious to examine, as I have done, copies of
the Gazette in its earlier decades.
has come over it, as over other institutions, m this
period. It is commonly remarked im our time that the
world has changed more im the last generation or two
than it has ever changed in any similar period, It as,
of course, changes in the outward appearances of life
that excite most comment: the acceleration of speed in
transport, the machines now employed, and so forth.
Yet such things are hardly more striking than the
change in interests and the changed atitude towards life
that one sees in turning over the files of old papers. 1
can imagine exclamations from readers of the present
day turning over the leaves of the old Gazette: ‘‘How
“How quaimt!’’
“Fancy anyone writing an essay on Wordsworth or any
I can fancy, too, readers of
the earlier Gazette making exclamations of another sort
over the Gazette of 1936 and running to a dictionary to
discover the meanings of many words—with many of
which the dictionary would not help. The earlier generation would think us decidedly less literary, and perhaps less political and less interested in science.

I have not found it necessary wholly to rely on
7 imaginings, however, for I have the good fortune to be
acquainted with a nonagenarian Dalhousian, who has
read the Gazette, intermittently at least, since its begunning, and who declares roundly that the present life
at Dalhousie as reflected in the Gazette is a much more
mteresting one than the life he knew here of old. For
one thing he is stoutly in favour of coeducation.
another he thinks that life in the college is a nearer approximation to the realities than it formerly was. He
thinks, also, that the games and other relaxations are an
The absence of these things in his time
made for serious dissipation in the case of a few students at least. I have been refreshed hearing such
views about the world and about Dalhousie from a graduate who is nearing the century mark; and these views
may be of some interest to the readers of the Gazette

A striking change

“How old fashioned!”’

For

 

DAL BAND TO RETURN]

 

The Dal band, which made such a
hit with the footbal fans last October
and November is to return to add to
the pleasure of the hockey fans during the coming playoffs for the City
League Championship.

The Tigers will play the winners
of the Sunoco-Wanderers Games

; about the week of Feb. 10th. It is
expected that the band together with
aa winning hockey teams will draw

 

Dental Students to
Present Show

The inevitable has come to pass.
It was predestined, infallible and

indubitable. In other words—ladies
and gentlmen of Dalhousie — it’s a
“natural”.

When a faculty of Dalhousie com
a large crowd of fans. It is also ex-|Prising—students in toto, holds appected that there will be free skat-|Proximately 90% of the talent of the

~ ing after the game, while the band
will offer a number of new selections
which it has added to its repertoire
since last autumn. As usual the band
will be under the direction of Johnny
Morrison.

 

NOTICE

Plans are now underway for a
coed edition of the Gazette. This

issue will be entirely under the
supervision of the young ladies at
Dalhousie.

All of the feminine

sex at Dalhousie and also the

/ Alumnae are invited to mail in

; their contributions to Miss Eliza
To beth Ballem, Shirreff Hall. All

| copy must be in no later than
Februray 10th.

 

 

entire university—then one and only
one outcome is obvious.

In the near future Dalhousians
will be given the opportunity of seeing a show chock full of real talent
in every line of entertainment — a
talent which is head and shoulders
above anything yet seen around

| these parts.

This is the first announcement of
the show to come. All we can say
at this time is—that the entire enterprise is being made possible by
the earnest and sincere efforts of
every student in the Faculty of
Dentistry, as well as some of our
Profs.

Rehearsals are well under way;
the object being a two act show, including a musical and a full length

(Continued on Page Hight)

 

 

 

 

‘Meds Plan To

Issue Journal

 

Emulating the strides taken by

their colleagues in other Canadian!

Universities and across the border,
| the Medical Society at Dalhousie is
‘planning on publishing a Medical
Journal. An active committee con|sisting of Messrs. Strong, Murphy,
Gold and Worrell has been appointed
to finalize plans, and latest reports
|from them indicate a marked interlest taken by the student body and
| faculty alike. Several students are

 

'already writing articles for publica-!

tion and many others have been as| signed to prepare abstracts from
lpeoeptad leading Medical Journals.
| The professors are cooperating in

order to assist and guide the work.

Will Edit Alumni Section

It is of particular interest to the
alumni that Dr. McCurdy of the
Patological Institute has consented
to edit the Alumni Supplement.
Copies of the Journal are to be
sent to all Dalhousie Medical
Graduates.

The Committee has received estimates from _ various publishing
houses. It is hoped that the cost of
publication will be defrayed by advertisments from leading drug
houses in Canada and the United
States. Mr. Beeber under the Committee’s guidance has consented to
contact the firms and reports from

obtained.
It cannot be over-emphasized that

cal Students will be tremendous. The

press around March 15th. The Medical Society is backing the venture.

Latin Play
Presented

On Saturday evening the Dalhousic
—King’s Classical Club held its
monthly meeting at the home of
President Stanley. Several members
of the Club presented the Plautine
comedy Quinummus. Among those
taking part were the Misses Gladys
Longard, Mabel Murphy and Mary
Fraser, and Messrs. George Arnold,
Carmino de Catauzaro, Burns Adams
Basil Buckland arid J. H. Cleveland.

(An improvised stage was used

and the actors appeared in proper
Roman costume.)

 

Be Sure
To Read -
What a Man Thinks............ 2
They Shall Not Die............ 4

 

His Eye Was Not Dim.......... 4
Judgment in Shirreff Hall Case.. 5
All the Alumni News.......

Crop Rotation in Arts Faculty.. 6
Something to Think About..... 2

Sports on Parade.............. 8

a
SS

— —

EE eee

—

him indicate that many ads will be

the value of such a Journal to Medi- |

Journal will most likely be off the!

 

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 381, 1936

 

Sodales Plan

Interesting Feature

 

Along with other student organizations which have experienced increased interest during the year,
Sodales has been very active, and
has provided a large number of debates both for the experienced and
| the inexperienced.

The practice in the past has been
to stress two or three particular debates, and allow the interested stu\dents to gain their experience from
‘other associations. Last spring and
summer arrangements were made to
increase the number of debates offered yearly to the students, to stress
opportunities rather than particular
debates. And the interested manifested by the trials has warranted
the change.

 

Improvement comes only with
practice, and to enable to the students to have opportunities in public
speaking, nearly thirty debates were
arranged for. The Intercollegiate
Debating League schedule was
widened to allow for four debates
each year instead of one, a league
composed of City Colleges, namely,
St. Mary’s, Kings and two teams
from Dalhousie provide sixteen. debates, additional outside teams were
invited to come to Dal., and the con| nection with the N. F. C. U .S. was
maintained. Also, a larger number
of inter-class debates have been
| planned—and a monster political de| bate, to take place just prior to the
(opening of the Mock Parliament.
Then, the Radio Debates, under the
| Sponsorship of the Radio Commission
has been increased so that siv Uni| versities are included in the Eastern
section instead of three. This year,
Dalhousie is defending the shield emblematical of the Debating Championship of Eastern Canada.

Debates of major importance remaining are:

Mt. Allisen, New York University,
Kings, U. N. B. Law School and
Acadia at home, U. N. B. and Mt.
| Allison away. The Radio debates
|open on January 3ist, and are conducted by way of elimination, with
Dalhousie meeting University of
Bishop’s College, then advancing
}against McGill and, if successful.
| against the winner of New Bruns| wick. The winner of this section
| meet the winner of Wes‘ern Canada
for the shield offered by the Radio
Commission.

Debates of minor significance re.
|maining are:
| Bonnett Shield

 

 

 

Series, which is

_ |conducted between the four years at

Studley for the shield presented by
Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett for interclass debating, and the City League
Debtes, which are held every two
weeks, two teams from Dalhousie
debating each night.

Probably the outstanding debate of
the year will be the political debate.
Two members of the Local House,
one Liberal, the other Conservative,
wil lteam up with two students and
debate on the resolution: Resolved
that this House favors the continuation of the policies of the Macdonald
Government, with the issue being a
discussion of provincial issues. It is
hoped to have Don. F. Fraser, M.P.P.
on one side, and Gordon S. Harring
(Continued on Page Eight)

Plans Made
Mock Parliament

G” CANADA SR
POSTAGE PAID

Le:

Permit No. 399
HALIFAX

 

 

No. 14

 

 

 

For

MOCK PARLIAMENT TO
MEET FEBRUARY 20th

A Brief History
Of The Founding
Of The Gazette

By the late DR. A. H. MacKAY

(Reprinted from Gazette of 1929)

In the sixth year of the reorganized Dalhousie College which started
with a staff of six professors, on
Monday the 25th of January 1869,
theré was issued from the Halifax
press the first No. of “The Dalhousie Gazette’, with the motto
“Forsan at haec olim meminisse
juvabit”. I have before me bound
in one volume, one and one half
inches thick, the first seven annual
volumes upto May 8, 1875. The page
was little more than an inch longer
and broader than the page of the
present Gazette folded into quarter
size—exactly a little more than 8 by
10 inches.

Vol 1, No. 1 came out with only
four pages of two columns each. The
“Salutary” taking up three quarters
of the first column the balance of
the page being devoted to nine stanzas of “A Student’s Translation
from the German” or “The Diver”,
the remainder of which appeared in
equal instalments in the next two
issues. The second and third pages
are devoted to a serial under the
title of “Note on Cape Breton”, by a
graduate, except for half a column
on “The Nature of Falsehood” “by a
Graduate”, which is continued on the
last page to the first third of the
last column. Then follows the final
paragraph under the caption: “Explanatory”. At the foot of this nfial
column is the formal intimation:
The Dalhousie College Gazette, a
purely literary journal, whose aim is
to foster and encourage a taste fo1
literature among the students of the
above college, is published every
alternative Monday, by John J. Cameron, B.A., A. P. Setton, and W. E.
Roscoe of Dalhousie College. “Terms
—Fifty cents per annum in advance.
Single copies five cents.

The “Saluatory” contains the following: “Its aim is two-fold, viz: the
cultivation of a literary taste among
ourselves, and the establishment ot
an organ in which free expression
can be given, not only to our own

 

 

sentiments, but to those of others
who may interest. themselves in our
progress and prosperity.
perity of a university is the prosperity of a Nation. The training of
mental tastes formed there extend
their influence to succeeding genera(Continued on Page Eight)

NOT .oO eg

Initial tryouts for the Munro
Day musical production will be
held on the stage of the Gymnasium, Saturday mornings, Feb. Ist
and 8th from 10.00 a.m. to 1.00
p.m.

The cast requires a female
dancing chorus, singers, tapdancers, and comedians of both
sexes. All interested please meet
Glee Club executives back-stage
on the above dates,

SS Sesssssssssssssssssssssssisensssssssen

The pros
 

The Law School’s famous Mock
Parliament will open this year during the week of February 20th, with
the Liberals holding the fort against
the combined forces of the Conser| Vatives and “Doc” Bryne.
| This oldest and most renouned of
all student ceremonies dates back to
ithe founding of the Law School.
|Since the days of “R. B.” the Law
(students, during the second term,
elect leaders, those in favor of the
government of the day forming the
government. At the end of the debates a vote of want of confidence
in the government is taken, and with
one exception, the government has
been defeated.

The opening is arranged to take
place a few days after the opening
of the Federal House, and the pomp
and ceremony which characterizes
the opening at Ottawa is reproduced
in the Munro Room. The members
take their place, and await the coming of the Governor-General, who
calls them to the Moot Court Room,
where the speech from the Throne
is delivered. They then return to the
Munro Room, and the two speeches
moving and seconding the speech
from the throne are given, and the
Leader of the Opposition opens the
debate. The Leader of the Government replies, and the debate continues.

Many stories are told of the ingenuity of some of the former Leaders to secure a majority. Bribery is
always rampant, and even imprisonment has been made use of to secure
|}more votes. On one particular occasion, the government of the day held

(Continued on Page Eight)

Truth In The
Daily Press

 

 

The women students at Dalhousie
make a perfect farce of education,
particularly those who come from out
of town. Obviously they look upon
college life as “a good time” for
their classroom records indicate a
sheer lack of application.

A peep into Shirreff Hall gives a
| Sood idea of the kind of life led by
\the Dalhousie girl.
| No less homelike place could be
| imagined, and seeing its drab walls,
|faded curtains, meagerly furnished
rooms, and empty fireplaces (except
for cigarette butts) it is not difficult
to understand why the Student Government (if there is any) has such
trouble enforcing its rules.

The Student Government has no
voice in laying down the laws governing entertainment of friends,
evenings out, time to be in and other
| such conditions.

Any evening one may see groups
of pyjama-clad girls lolling about
\the various sitting rooms playing
bridge, giggling and punning
through thick clouds of cigar and
cigarette smoke. In the main hall
the piano stands deserted, the badminton table forgotten, and the library empty while the girls carry on
their normal routine of dances, dates
and shows.

 

  
     
     
 
 
   
    

;
fot

a
aa? 4

= 4
mh
Ps
4
Vs
A

‘Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in Ameri

MERLE PURTILL

es”

>

Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. S;
EDITORIAL STAFF

 

H y a anne: Editors IRVING PINK
eae ae
News Editor
JOHN TRACY
on
LEN KITZ EDITH BLAIR BILL ees
Soci i i Sports Editor
Society . Editor Literary Editor See ae Eegito

ELISABETH BALLEM

4 Staff Artist L. 3341
Bate C.F. BENTLEY :
| = Assistant
Business Manag DOUGLAS CREASE
J. R. H. SUTHERLAND Sak

‘Alumni Section Edited by Graham Allen, 2

ONWARD, GAZETTE!

de its
. -f N years ago today the first Gazette ma
ne it was a very small issue not only in ner
number of pages it contained, but in size a eet
eight inches by eleven, to be exact; further, it was not a
weekly.

tte has grown since then,
echieved —— heights in the publication of an eight page
issue on six column pages. This is the largest Gazette ever
published in its history. The union of the Alumni News
with the Gazette has established seen ape between the

ians of today and those of yesterday.

Cre is a difficult foal to edit a paper which shall please

 

 

and this year is has

 

Re everyone: there is one thing,
{

| print stories which the student body feels does no
Pe any publicity. We ask you to keep
E time you read the Gazette,

Gazettes of past years; too,
will amaze you in the fact that the

& but will continue to do so in
| GAZETTE!

BP GIVE YOUTH A CHANCE

 

T will be graduating from Dalhousie.

men and women
a forth”. They will be told in long
. .. they have spent

will welcome their talents

the in 2
greeting.

ete very few of the
fae get jobs, while
parents—a

however, which must be

oP i i ly means of
ee remembered , and that is the Gazette 1s the on
Pt) recording college activities, and as such we must very often

this in mind the next
and incidentally e might =
i hat there are hours of interesting reading In tne
: a that a perusal of old papers
same controversies

ing the students not only in years gone by,
Be tase to the years to come. ONWARD,

coming Spring some one hundred and fifty students
Scores of young
| from all Canadian universities will be
a handed their diplomas and good wishes and told to “Go
graduation orations that
the last few years in a university preparing for the hardships of the world. They will be told thaat
y and open its arms in
They will be told that youth has a chance.

all fairness it will also be whispered that only a
large number of graduates will be able to
the rest will be thrown back upon their
burden to them as they have been in the past.

1 f

 

o
'

Those unfortunates will ask again and again, “Why isn’t
youth given a chance?” These students will wonder why
why a degree and a diploma is not in demand as it was a
few years ago, when any graduate was grabbed by the
business and professional world. ey
There was a time when High School teaching positions
were open to High School graduates with a fair gerade.
Then came the day when B.A. degrees were required, and
now it has come to the stage where M.A.’s and Ph.D.’s are
only too glad to work in even our poorly paid Nova Scotian
schools. That example will suffice to show the flight of
education.
Parents have become aware of the fact that all children
need higher education to face the world today. Many
parents have sacrificed their last penny so that their children may get a B.A. degree, only to have them come back
on their hands again after four years of college work.
Professional graduates of all varieties are in the same
position. They are specialists in their own fields. The
world is full of specialists, clever men, too, who were never
given a chance to show their wares and who must sit back
and wait for their turn. When it will come nobody knows.
The question that everybody asks is when is a change
going to take place. The answer, of course, is beyond the
reach of any person. Only one thing is clear: the world
must give all youth a chance. At present only those people
who happen “to know somebody who knows somebody else
who has a fair amount of financial backing” are the ones
who get the jobs. The rest are told that the “boss is busy;
come back some Sunday when nobody is around.”
And thus it goes: the world is refusing to give youth
a chance. This attitude must very soon be changed or
many of our universities will be closing their doors. Youth
will no longer be willing to gamble four to seven years of
his life against the chance of getting a job. Let us hope
that that time will never come, for the world will one day
awake and offer opportunity to all alike. Those that are
fitted for the job will get it, and who are unfit will never
be able to say that they were not given a chance.

THE DOCTOR OF LETTERS
I b

 

Medical School at Dalhousie has grown in numbers,
ut it has sadly declined in one important way: that is,
the lack of interest shown by the medical students in the
extra-curricular activities of debating, public speaking,
writing for the Gazette, and other activities of this sort.
The Medical faculty years ago produced some of the
finest debaters in the history of the University. Something
seems to have happened—either the students are too busy
or else they are distinterested. Whichever it is makes no
difference. The students in that faculty are in a rut; many

attend a University for seven years, and at the end of that

time are not able to write a properly-worded letter. This

is a sad state of affairs, and if it continues, unless the

Medical student body awakens from this state of lethargy
in which it seems to have fallen, the graduate, though he
may have an M.D., will not have an education in the true
sense of the term. | |

DALHOUSIE

Education Notes

 

Quite contrary to former expectations that we would be kicked around
for starting this column, several distinguished personages have intimated
that as a matter of fact they were
getting the kick out of it. Encouraged beyond the point of timidity,
we venture to brave the perils of
criticism once more.

* * *

Noise! Fracas! Confusion! a sound
curiously resembling a ten year old
car getting into high — strange
sounds to be coming from a classroom after hours, but then the education classroom is an exception. The
noise was caused by the grinding of
the mental apparatus of the Ed.
studes as they tried to figure out
who was the engineer, how many
hats there were, etc., etc., ad infinitum. It all came about over an article in Esquire, containing myriads of
mental tongue-twisters. If you have
not read it yet, our advice is don’t;
you’ll probably go crazy too. The
epidemic of problem-solving has
swept the whole Ed. class, but all
the members are now said to be resting comfortably under the mental
care of psychoanalyst Filippone. It
is reported that one severe case
walked all the way down Spring
Garden Road with his hands high in
the air. This strange phenomenon,
we find, was caused by the fact that
Gladys Fellows was in front wearing
a red hat. Curious how some people
get affected that way. However, for
the last time (we hope) we offer one
more problem; but, so that you won’t
have time to think about it we will
give you the answer immediately
after. Here it is—If Dunc. Mackay
lives half-a-mile from the college,
how far will he have walked in a
week in coming to classes? Answer:
The same distance as Carlo would;
or, expressed algebraically, x-:x-2x
miles,

* * *

Do you know that:

It took one hour and a half to
wake Isabel Mackay on Friday afternoon.

The modern history class-room
should look like a jig-saw puzzle
that hasn’t been put together.

The Ed. room apparently can’t
hold twenty Ed. students at the same
time.

The S.C.M. and hockey don’t mix.

The perfect host never prepares to
entertain until his guest of honor
has arrived.

Prof. Fletcher can skate better
than Mable Murphy.

However we admit that we don’t
know everything. Here are a few
questions for you:

Why has Con Sutherland suddenly
switched to Camels?

Why has the consumption of cigarettes noticeably decreased since last
Monday morning?

Who will volunteer to invent a collapsable school house ?

What was the cause of Tom
Foley’s laughing fit last Thursday ?

(AnAswer: He saw a spot on Prof.
Fletcher’s forehead.)

Is Prof. Fletcher really the advertising manager for China, or does
he do it of his own bat? (Answer:
ask Hoo Shee.)

And nowy comes a bit of an episode. The room was in silence except for the burblings of the lecturer,
when suddenly the alarm clock decided to say a few words. The professor, catchingsthe spirit, immediately
became alarmed himself, hurriedly
tried to stop the thing. He couldn’t,
so he appeals to the class. Here are
a few of the replies:

I, M. (with that far-away look in
her eyes) “Ask Carlo; he knows
everything.”

C. S. (innocently) “I don’t know;
I didn’t wind it.”

P. L. “Push that last valve down.”

Tony: “Trace the cause of the abnormality.”

ss = G. “Here, give it to me, I’ll fix
i

And believe it or not, with a few
movements Anna stopped the darn
thing. Interviewed afterwards on
reason for her great achievement
she modestly said; “Oh, I don’t know:

I guess I just have a Way with
clocks”,

 

  

  

GAZETTE

W hat a Man
Thinks

sign beckoned insistently.

 
   

The
Allan Jones could remember the! modern mass advertising the subject
time, nearly three weeks past, when | of virulent attack and caustic criti
the building on which the sign was| ¢jgm by the unthinking.

now placed had been a respectable
millinery establishment. What a difference, he thought, a few days
make in the general outlook of a
man as well as in the physical world
about him. As he looked at the
sign graphically illustrating the
need which his country had of him,
and continuously beckoning him to
shoulder arms in the war which had
recently been declared. From the
sign he glanced down at the slip of
paper in his hand: ordered to report
at the South Barracks for medical
inspection at eleven o’clock. His
pace slackened.
* * *

The sign beckoned: “Chewrag
Cigarettes, no better made.” After
all a few drags would arouse his
latent enthusiasm. He had addressed so many pacifist meetings that it
would be a hard job to change now.

Why should his country demand that |

he lay aside all scruples of conscience
just because there had been a silly
diplomatic tangle thousands of miles
away? It was all too, too absurd.

“Twenty-five cents, please,” came
the sweet voice, and he readily parted with the coin. Of course, the
smoke might have a bad effect on
his heart, but really he hadn’t
thought of that, and after all the
doctors were entitled to know the
worst. He for one was not going
to retire on a pension the week after
he joined the army.

Probably that touch of arthritis
would do the trick anyway, for why
should the government send a man
to fight who might double up on them
at any minute? The heart, however, was his worst ailment, all the
doctors admitted that. It was too
bad that he would have to remain at
home, for he had actually made up
his mind to enlist voluntarily, and
the mandatory request to appear
had caught him offguard merely because he was always slow about gettings things done.

If it weren’t for that heart, and
possibly the arthritis, there would
be none more eager to bear his share
of the load in defence of his country. Perhaps he had been a bit too
strong about remaining neutral.
However, he certainly couldn’t deceive his country and pawn himself
off as a well man; of that he must
make certain.

The first time he had telephoned
Ella: it came to him in a flash. That
was the previous occasion on which
he had felt this peculiar sinking
sensation in his stomach. He had
met her before, but he could scarcely
say that he knew her. He had dialed the number, and as he listened
the first ray of hope, as it seemed,
disappeared at the steady whirr
which indicated the line was not
busy. He felt he would be recognized if he fled now; so he decided to

 

stick it out, hoping against hope
that she was not at home. The receiver at the other end was lifted;
he asked for her; “speaking”. After
that it had been easier, and he was
very glad he had gone through with
it. There was a similarity of feeling
between the two occasions; and he
hoped for the best. It was really too
bad about his heart, but of course he
daren’t deceive his country.

“Good morning, Mr. Atkins. Yes,
a lovely morning. Any news about
the war yet today?”

natural and hollow? Again, his mind
took him back to the occasion on
which he had been led into the presidency of the local Association. For
weeks he had stoutly resisted all
persuasion. Even when nominated
he had asked leave to withdraw, but
the meeting had bullied his nomination right through until he was declared elected. Afterward he had
not regretted the action then taken
by his friends. Within him had stirred the conflicting factors “Yes” and
“No”, so that he was unable to decide. Today, of course, he had no
doubt. If it were not for the heart,

(and the touch of arthritis too, he

would be as hard to restrain as a
two-year-old.

“Take a deep breath”, and the
command was obeyed.

A few more thumpings from the

January 31, 1936

SOMETHING TO
THINK ABOUT

 

     

The same post-toasties that go to
form the lush curves of Mae West
construct the carnal organism of my
own scrawny contours and form a
effects, striking deepest at the most |The th an affinity, between the two.

How frequent are the effects of

And of

dations of our civilization, most|The thought is awe-inspiring — aloften singled out for especial cen-!most sacriligious, containing as it
sure and abuse, is the dread and'does a slight taint of indecency;
awful Trend Toward Standardization. | compelling me to fore-swear forever
But it is our own belief and our|the exotic delights to be found only
no less solemn conviction, impelleld|in post-toasties.
by our love of truth and instigated; And so too when the midnight oil
by the advertisers of the Gazette,|runs low and I seek my bed with
that the aforesaid unthinking speak | the consciousness of work well
of that they wot not of. In short,|/done, do I retire to a hard and
this very Trend Toward Standardiza- | Spartan matress? On the contrary
tion opens to all, rich and poor alike, | I sink gratefully upon my Downythe advantages and blessings hither-| soft, blissfully aware that it will beto enjoyed only by the most favored) stow the same loving caressess upon
of Heaven and of Nature, unfolding | my bony carcass as its standard twin
vast fields of activity both to the|does upon the soft succulence of
imagination and to the libido. Mrs. J. Waddington Parker III of
Take thought. At nominal cost | Boston.
that innocent and maiden blush,| Trend Towards Standardization?
brought to the soft cheeks of Jean | Say rather, the Road to Democracy!
Harlow by the magic of Ivory soap, * * *
‘can be duplicated upon the more| Despite King Edward’s request
rustic joyels of the girls of Shirreff | that there would be no public mournHall. Those of our women-folk who | ing but that observance of the late
hold that the clinging vine is a sure| monarch’s death should be left to the
appeal to the primitive in every man! jndividual, Canada has declared a
can gurgle and coo with babe-like| public holiday. Various institutions

 

 

 

 

ease if they will but feed, with the} have extended the period.

Dionne quints, upen Lyle’s Golden
Syrup.

There are almost one half billion
people in the Empire; a day out of

And when the males a-courting go| the life of each and the compulsory

|what fertile fields of imagry are
opened to them. As they hungarily
savor the taste of Tangee (blood)
how wonderful to realize that the
lips of Lupe Velez offer the like repast; that the judicious gift of the
proper shade of lipstick and, perhaps, a closing of the eyes brings
the young buck at no extra cost the
amorous charms of his favorite
movie star.

chest and lungs specialist, and then
came the verdict: O.K. He smiled a
smile of superiority and conquest.
Of course, the heart and the arthritis
might bother him a bit, but what of
it; coudln’t he stand a bit of discomfort now and then? Suppose he
had not passed; suppose he had had
to bear the stigma of unfitness for
military service; suppose he had

suspension of his work and interests
means the loss of over a billion
years to the cultural advance of the
Empire.

This argument is probably fallacious depending as it does on the

istrict observance of the holiday by

every member of the Empire; but
insofar as it is fallacious to that extent does the day become a meaningless and wasteful mockery.

been left at home to continue his
pacifist activities; surely there must
be something in this war business
since so many excellent men supported it. Thus Allan Jones put on
his shirt, deftly ties his Christmas
tie, neatly adjusted his vest and coat,
and sauntered forth from the inspection. And thus the world at the
outbreak of war lost another pacifist.

 

Why should his voice sound so un

WHEN YOU CALL TO SEE
YOUR GIRL AND YOU FIND
SOME CHAP HAS “BEAT
YOU TO IT’...

aS

nn ae \)
| aaa \\\)!
‘WN )

  
     
  

   
 

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

 
  
 

       
 
    
  
 
 

  

1
t
fle
,

|

 

 

‘
i

*
a
,

~

“,
ay
nh

T

ia
“
.

Se
oe

  
 

 
 
 

—

ie
ae
mer
<,
J
1
7
*
—
«
=
=

ry
i

aera

{ Sti ns
ea

pm =)
. ‘

ol ~ ee
,

&

mt

in September.

a oe

a.

DALHOUSIE HOCKEY TEAM MERITS SUPPORT

f.

£
i

i} a ; ;
TET

 

LQNLVULN TUNA TALIM

NOSTALGIA WITHIN EASY
REACH OF ALL ALUMNI

CONSTITUTION REVEALS

 

Former students of Latin 6 will recall that eclogue of Den
. satius that “nothing succeeds like nostalgia.”
‘have missed the ineffable pleasure of this class will readily

Even those who

agree that a touch of nostalgia now and then makes life just

a little richer.

(Those who took engineering will be interested to know

just what “nostalgia” means.
esp. homesickness causing a
melancholia.”—Wesbster. )

With The Alumnae
In Montreal

From Mary C. Sutherland, Montreal, come the following news notes
of the Montreal branch of the Dalhousie Alumnae:

The Montreal branch of the Dalat the University Women’s Club on
Nov. 30th. Twenty-three alumnae
housie Alumnae held a delightful tea
were present, various classes from
’97 to ’°35 being represented.

The officers for the current year
are:

Edna Mingie, President.

Betty March, Vice-President.

Mrs. Geo. Langstroth, Treasurer.

Mary C. Sutherland, Secretary.

Miss Electa McLellan has accepted a position on the teaching staff
of the Vancouver General Hospital.

Miss Alison McCurdy has returned to Montreal and is associated
with the Federation of Social
Agencies.

_ The many friends of Mrs. H. A.

 

 

4

   
  

know that she is steadily improving
in health.

A daughter was born to Mr. and
Mrs. K. Linneborn (Hazel White)
Gretel Jean is the
daughter’s name.

PERSONALS

Lorne William Sproule, B.Sc. ’30,
accepted a position in the chemical
department of the Imperial Oil Co.,
Sarnia, as a chemist in research
work in June, 1930. In August, 1933,
he was sent to France in charge of
the chemical department of the new

 

_ oil refinery at Fort Jerome. On his

return, after two years, he resumed
his research work with the Imperial
Oil in Sarnia, where he was married
on Nevember 16, 1935, to Miss Dora
Woolley.

Donald G. Tapley, Eng. 1932, is
employed with the Canadian General
Electric Co., Ltd., Peterboro, Ont.

 

Edward J. Theriault, LL.B. 1927,
is practising in Digby, N. S.

 

Mary Leone Trites, B.A. ’27, now
Mrs. Norman MacKendrick, is living
at Bathurst, N. B.

 

Wallace S. Trotter, Com. 1927-’29,
is living in Montreal. He obtained
his B.Com. and M.Com. from McGill.

 

Helen Barbara Walker, B.A. ’34,
is teaching in the Queen Margaret
School at Duncan, Vancouver Island,

B.C.

 

Albert Joseph Walsh, LL.B. ’28, is

“Nostalgia .

ig (Lou Thomas) are glad to

. Homesickness ;
severe and sometimes fatal

IS ESSENTIAL

The biology department will bear
us out that a certain amount of
nostalgia is absolutely essential to
the phenomenon of life. Even the
lowliest Algae grows nostalgic at
times and, while drifting dolefully
around Eastern Passage, longs for
those happy days in eBdford basin.

Like the Algae, although on a
slightly higher plane, the alumnus
is bound to thing longingly of the
happy days at the dear old Alma
Mater.

And it is in satisfying this longing that the Dalhousie Alumni
association proves its usefulness.
(Advt.)

REAL OPPORTUNITY
It is not the privilege of every
alumnus to belong to that select
group who still meet, so to speak,
in the very shadows of the Forres:

Building, but alumni in many places! Where are deep Mississippi meand
can easily capture some of this rapturous emotion by banding together
in little coteries to exchange reminiscences of their days at the Forrest
Building or Studley.

Already a number of such groups
exist and, we are told, another group
was recently formed as a result of
the alumni section published in the
Gazette. First groups that come to
mind are those in New York and
Montreal, both of which are extremely active and deeply interested
in things Dalhousian.

But it is to the unorganized emigres that the message is addressed.
If you are living in a community
where there are a few Dalhousians
—and in what community are there
not ?—you are facing a rare opportunity.

COMPLETE AUTHORITY

The constitution of the Alumni
Association of Dalhousie College and
University “as amended and adopted
May 11, 1925,” gives complete authority for the formation of local
branches. In its breezy way, the
constitution says:

“Any member or members of the
Association resident in any district
may on receiving the approval of the
executive of the Association, form a
local branch of the Association for
that district, which branch shall be
know by the name of the district.

“The object of such local branches
shall be the promotion, throughout
the district of the interests of the
Alumni Association and of the University, by inducing Alumni resident
therein to become members of the
Association and of the branch; by
holding meetings for the discussions
of University questions; by encouraging students to attend the University and by any other means which
may seem desirable.”

THEIR BRAIN CHILD

(The constitution is obviously the
brain-child of some glamorous flower

District Magistrate at Grand Falls,| raised in the rarefield atmosphere of

Newfoundland.

 

Margaret Dorothy Webster, B.Sc.
733, M.Sc. ’34, is now at Duke Hospital, Durham, North Carolina.

 

Mr. and Mrs. J. Whitney Mac
Fi
‘

a

i

the Law School.)

“Those eligible for membership in
the Association and no other persons
shall be eligible for membership in
local branches,” the constitution continues chattily, “and such persons on
being admitted to membership in any

_ Donald (Margaret S. White, Sci. ’28-"local branch shall become ipso facto
730) are now living in Ellsworthy,! members of the Association.”

_ Maine. They have a small son.

 

George C. Whiteley, B.Sc. ’30, is

Note the “ipso facto”; a definite
Law School touch.)
“The officers of these branches

: attached to the Department of Biol-| shall consist of a president, a secre
“7 %
1 a
~,

a

a
ae ‘=
‘BS

ae ‘University of Toronto.

Ca Cath. att
ee Ota
‘y a ete ee
ia. teak 4 J
ae
ea oe
7 =}

(Continued on Page Six)

_—_—oen—n |??? eee SSS

 

 

Recalls Former ‘‘Prof’”’

Prof. De Mille Wrote Delightful Nonsense.

 

One of the most interested of all
Dalhousie’s alumni in “the life of a
little college” is Judge George Patterson of New Glasgow, who remains
closely in touch with activities at
the university and among the
alumni.

We are privileged to present in
this edition of the Alumni news two
contributions from Judge Patterson.
The items were sent to the Gazette
staff who kindly made them available to us. Unfortunately they were
received ust too late to appear in
our previous issue,

A letter from Judge Patterson referring to a famous English professor of an earlier day is given here
and another contribution from the
Judge appears immediately below:

“Dear Editors:

“In the London Daily Mirror of
October 5 appeared the following
item:

“An unusual love poem has been
published in New Brunswick, where
there are many quaint names.
Professor de Mille decided to intro

 

as

JUDGE PATTERSON

Mechan, appears in the present number of the Canadian Geographic
Monthly. Prof. DeMil.e’s wonderful knack of happy drawings by
which he could transform dry Latin
texts to pleasant reading for boys
whom none wou'd claim as studious
is illustrated at length and somethire is said about his ability to
wrt: ight and amusing verse.

“T am like Dr. MacMechan a devoted admirer of my old teacher
Prof. DeMille, and know most ef hi
shall I say serious works; but the
poem from which the Mirror quotes
is unknown to me. Can any of your
readers give it in full? There are
still a few ‘tottering oldsters,’ ‘antiquated fossils, and ‘enfeebled
cronies,’ (page W. G. A. ’29 in your
issue of Oct. 4) left who would
greatly appreciate the opportunity
of reading it.

“Yours sincerely,

“GEORGE PATTERSON”

duce some of the unusual names into a poem, two verses of which run
as follows:—

Sweet maiden of Passamaquoddy,
Sha'l we seek for communion of
souls,

ers
Or the distant Saskatchewan rolls?

Ah, no! in New Brunswick we'll find
it— |
A sweet sequestered nook—
Where the sweet gliding Skoodawabskooksis
Unites with the Skoodawabskook.

 

“A most interesting article on
Prof. DeMille, with an introduction
by his devoted admirer ond successor in the chair of English at Dalhousie, the late lamented Prof. Mac
GIFTS BETWEEN PEERS

A recent issue of the Financial Post contained the following item quoted from the Sault St. Marie Star:—

“Just before Sir James Dunn, Bart., President of the
Algoma Steel Corporation,, left his home in London the
other day to sail for Canada, his friend, Max Aitken (Lord
Beaverbrook), called him from Paris to wish him a successful trip and to tell hom to enquire for a little package when
he went on board the Empress of Britain at Southampton.
On opening the package, a found a nicely bound copy of the
Shorter Catechism with Beaverbrook’s compliments.

“These men are both New Brunswickers; Beaverbrook,
the son of a Presbyterian minister, and Sir James, the son
of a Presbyterian elder; both continuing Presbyterians.
Both haye had their ups and downs in life and have turned
many sharp corners, but away in the background is their
early home upbringing, the value of which this incident
shows.

“Beaverbrook was perfectly serious in sending the
Shorter Catechism, and his gift was equally understood
and appreciated by Sir James.”

 

 

 

Lord Beaverbrook, as Max Aitken, took classes at Dalhousie in ’94-’95—the year his older brother, Major R. D.
Traven Aitken graduated in Arts. Sir James H. Dunn, Bart,
LL.B., ’98, is one of Dalhousie’s most distinguished sons, and
one of the most generaus contributors to her funds.

 

A. D. Fraser, Professor at Virginia

A. D. Fraser, B.A. ’10, (M.A., Hungary and Yugoslavia. During
J.H.U., Ph.D., Harvard), has occu-}the later part of his stay in Greece,

pied the chair of Archaeology at the Dr. Fraser served as Director of the
: : SE en nee American Summer School of ClassiUniversity of Virginia for the ast | ca] Studies, conducting its members

five years. In the current year he | to many sites in Attica and lectur
was awarded a grant of $200 by the|ing on the topography and monu-| Burbidge, Hugh Ross, P. A. Creel
Research Committee of the Univer-| ments.
sity of Virginia and $800 by the! In the course of his archaeological
American Council of Learned Soci-|work Dr. Fraser collected many

 

ties for investigation in the technology of Greek pottery. Assisted
by this fund, Dr, Fraser was enabled

specimens of ancient pottery for experimental purposes; he also took

   
 

to carry on research in Europe for
three months in 1935.

He worked in the chief museums
of England, France, Germany, Austria, Greece and Italy. He also spent
some time in Holland, Switzerland,

  

some 300 photographs of monuments
and sites in Greece and Rome, some
of which had not hitherto been
photographed. The results of his
ceramic researches are presently to
appear in a volume entitled “The
Technology of Ancient Pottery”.

 

-|Of Education

|

 

 

| that B. A. Fletcher, B.Sc., M.A., has

AUUINADSULSNOUANUOUANUUUT

Alumni
Section

Tee

 

 

ALUMNI AND STUDENTS
SHOW WOEFULLACK OF
INTEREST IN ICE STARS

The writer, having been asked to give a survey of the
hockey situation at Dalhousie, feels that such an attempt
necessitates a review of the past, a frank realization of the
present, and a prognostication of the future.

RECALLS FORMER STARS.

Mention of “hockey” in a group of old Dalhousians immediately starts a rehearsal of the exploits of Duke MclIsaac,
Jack I. McNeill, Lee Fluck, Hughie MacKinnon, Art Lilly,
McEachern, Tommy Horsler, Mont Haslam, George and
Bricky Dunn, Fabie Bates, Roe McKenna, Alan Dunlop and
many others who formed the almost unbeatable teams of the
early “twenties”. Some may go back to earlier teams of
“naukhty-eight” and thereabouts, when names such as
Thomas, Wiswell, Learment, and Little were rare sports
page copy. These teams became Dalhousie’s hockey tradition.

Takes Over Chair

 

After the graduation of the Duke
and his cohorts, hockey at Dalhousie
gradually went into decline. The
| Eastern League was started in Nova
Scotia, followed by the Maritime Big
Four and importation of All-Star
players. Local teams, composed of
the left-overs, could not hope to
share the spotlight with the four

 

Alumni will be interested to learn

taken over the chair in Education in
the University, succeeding the late

Professor C. W. Smith. most powerful amateur teams in the
Mr. Fletcher was educater at II-| world.
ford School; University College, 3 =
; a eee, oe HALF-HEARTED.
London; and Cambricge. After ser- |

vice, Mr. Fletcher attended Univer- Dalhousie competed half-heartedly
sity Colege, London, and received;in an obscure Intercollegiate League
he B.Sc. degree with honours in | and made none-too-good a showing
physies. He then received his dip-|a@gainst teams which once were too
'oma in education from the London| Weak to compete against. Student
Train'ng College, and, for the next |interest in athletics gradually sank
ten years, was science master at|to the lowest ebb in Dalhousie’s hisGreskam’s School, Norfolk. New|tory at a time when enthusiastic
methods of teaching he introduced |Support was most needed.

there are described in a book, “La-| Dancing became the main athletic
boratory Physics”, published by the |imterest of the mass of the students.
Oxford Press, in 1926. In 1926-27,;1n order to be assured of more than
he was a special research student at|@ Smattering of supporters, dances
the Cavendish Laboratory, Cam-| Were held after basketball games,
bridge. In 1930, he was elected Aj-|and even attempted after football
bert Kahn Travelling Fellow and|%2@mes. As the Ice surface at the
visited schools in eighteen countries, | orum provided no facilities for ballactivities, Dalhousie skating

 

He published an account of his ob-;'?0™

servations in the book, “Youth | sessions were revived and held after
Looks at the World” (Methuen, tne: games at no charge to students.
1932). He assisted in the report on| The attendance at games showed

‘no noticeable increase, and finally
even skating attendance became too
slim to warrant the expenditure.
| Many students were advocating the
abolishing of football and hockey at
Dalhousie. Such was the condition
at the beginning of the 19385 term.

“Native Education,” edited by the
Honourable H. A. Windham, Oxford
Press, 1933. In 1932, Mr. Fletcher
became headmaster at Chippenham
School. As a lecturer on the Extramural Board of Cambridge University, Mr. Fletcher has been much in
request as a Speaker in British
schools and universities. For the
past three years he has been on the

 

SENSATIONAL SHOWING.

In November, the breaking up of

staff of the Summer School at'the Halifax Wolverines, Allan Cup
Geneva. Champions, and subsequent dissoluMr. Fletcher has been highly) tion of Class A hockey in the Mari
recommended for the post in Dal-| times, provided a chance for the
housie by Professor Fred Clarke, ' local teams to win back the public
who several years taught in the |support they had once commanded.
Nova Scotia Summer School, and | Hockey at Dalhousie was given a
who is now Professor in the Insti- | “last chance”, and a team was entute of Education in London; als0 | tered the Independent City
by Sir Perey Nunn, Director of the League. On the shoulders of these
Institute, and other authorities. players rested the future of hockey
Sir Percy Nunn indeed has express-|at Dalhousie. The way the boys
ed some regrets over Mr. Fletcher! have come through reads like ficleaving educational work in Eng-|tion. Hailed as the “weak sister”,

land. Dalhousie has won the League Title

omigee acts.” with the loss of only one game in
Acknowledgment ten. She heads the team scoring,
Of Dues Paid

}and the two highest individual scorers are both Dalhousie players. In

Acknowledgment of Alumni Assoclation Fees Received:

addition, the team has played the
hard, fast, open hockey that the

M. C, Marqulies, Geor. Patterson,
Geo. M. Morrison, T. H. Lewis, G. A

in

fans like and ‘has been the team
that has brought spontaneous ap‘|plause from the most hard-baked

7 one cynics among the railbirds.
man, A. S. MacKenzie, A. D. Fraser, : ;

J. L. Ralston, S. R. Johnston, M. B.
Archibald, T. Coffin, A. B. Campbell,
T, H. Whelpley, Gordon M. Bruce, J. Nor has everything gone smoothly.
C. Mackie, J. R. Anderson, R. F.|The team entered the last half of
Morton, S. A. Fraser, C. H. Mitchell,|the schedule minus three regulars,
Lewis Thomas, D. W. Hoare, J. A.|and-the way in which the substitutes
Serimgeour, S. A. Morton, J. W.|have filled the breach calls for
Davis, W. H. Ross, C. W. Bryden,’ special mention. Shortliy after seDr. Dougal MacGillivray, B. McKet-|curing Ernie Mosher, Wolverine
trick, D. M. Collingwood, W. B. Wil-' centre, for a coach, his departure
liams, Denis Stairs. (Continued on Page Six)

LACK BACKING.

 
   
   

MERGER
P o “BS - ;
+ ts . —_—_—_—

_ Joe Morgan leaned on the counter
of his quick-lunch place as he glum
Jy watched the raindrops shatter on

sis: window and streak the dusty

nS pane.

The only customer ate his pie and

L coffee in silence at the far end of the

counter.
| “What a life!” brooded Joe.
ie | Ever since that new iunchroom

  
 

; had opened up two blocks away his
business had fallen off. Even his
= old customers were going to the
“Gaiety Cafe,” as it was rather exke travagantly called. Joe guessed
that the pretty proprieteress was
the reason for their leaving him.
He had never seen her, for his busi' ness required him to be there all
the time, and he had no help, but
h he had heard that she was a good
F . looker.
a “Like flies around my molasses
pot,” he thought, cynically. Still,
ae it was nice to be waited on at a
table by a woman instead of having
F your food shoved across a counter
ey to you by a man, There was something more like home about it.
as “How much?” interrupted a
voice.
ae “Huh? Oh, fifteen.” Then, as an
[Ps afterthought, “Please.” Might as
; _well try to keep the customers he
eee had by showing a little courtesy.
“Thanks.” He dropped the money
a in the till as the door closed. “GoodrR night”, he called.
eee. The beat of rain on the window
4 echoed the splash of the water as
_ Joe mechanically washed the dishes.
er “What a night!”

he stuck it on the back of his head
and perched on a stool. “Coffee!”
he called.
“Why, hello, Bill! Haven’t seen
- you for a year. What are you doing now?”
“Got a job as reporter for the
Globe. Just got in to-night to cover
a story. Going out on Saturday.
Say, where’s the gang you used to
have in here?”
“Aw, they’re all going someplace
else!”
F Bill listened to Joe’s tale of lost
|

en The door opened again and a man
Re came in, taking off his hat and
Ce c shaking the rain on the floor. Then
a

t

 

business in silence, smoking a cigarette as he drank his coffe. Then:
“Buddy,” he said, “you’re way
. down in the mouth. What you need
| 7 is some excitement. Why don’t you
take a night off and go to a show
or something? Is Mac’s Dance Hall
still running? It is? Then we’re
going there Thursday night. Now
Es don’t argue. I'll meet you at nine
f. —and you be ready.”
Joe grumbled a bit about losing
P . more business if he went, but final: ly agreed. “But just this once,” he
ee declared.
By. Mac’s Dance Hall was well filled
: when Joe and Bill arrived and they
were soon dancing with old ac) quaintances. Joe began to feel
f again like his former happy self
y and his conversation took on that
Pat, half-smiling wit which has friends
E. enjoyed. It came naturally to him.
; Then he saw her! A tall, enchanting figure with glorious boiled-lob
ait, ster colored hair accentuated by a
_——-_— eool,_sea-green frock came quietly
ye into the room alone and looked casuae ally around with candid eyes. Joe
pie managed to grasp:

| aes “Holy Cow, Jessie, who’s that?”
en “Come on over. I'll give you a
- “Knockdown to _ her.”

rae, _ He noticed that the top of her
-———sChead just came to his eyes. He saw

the three freckles on her nose. He

felt rather than heard the music of
Me her voice as she quietly acknow_ ledged Jessie’s introduction of
_ “Mary Johnston, this is Joe Morgan.
_ Joe—Mary.” He would never for_ —s get’ that mame. He knew that she
the loveliest creature he had even
~~: seen and he felt his mouth go dry
and his knees weaken as he looked

at her. He was in love.
_--—s«s Perhaps it was the music; perhaps
2 _ sit was the night and her beside
_-— ihim: Joe would never know. But
__ he underwent the change which only

4 Peg

__ a@ man in love can experience. His
; eh only desire was to please her, to en
____ tertain her, to attract her to him,

_-———s (Continued on Page Five)

oe Py ce
5 .

 

  
     

THEY SHALL
‘NOT DIE

 
 
 
 

Mrs. Shattel lived in a decrepit
shanty built like a box. The entrance faced a yard splattered with
empty,musty cans and and deeprooted rocks. The hallway was dark
and narrow, without light, and led
to apparent oblivion. An open cellar door at the farthest end of the
hallway, immediately before the
stairs that led upstairs, loomed as
an abyss of darkness to the person
who was unaware of its presence.
The lavatory was at the head of the
stairs and easily detected by the
dullest of nostrils.

Two infants, born only a month
ago, lay feet-to-feet in a wooden
contraption, meant to be a crib. A
thin white arm rocked the improvised bed while the other arm was
directed towards cleaning the dirt

est boy. Mrs. Shattel had eleven
children, a product of sixteen years
of married life with Sailor Shattel.
Her smiling face confessed contentment with her four room apartment. The kitchen contained a
square table in the corner, two
benches, one between the table and
wall, a coal stove in which a fire
blazed and a rust-stained sink, in
another corner. The floor was covered by a torn carpet on which several youngsters were using their
saliva-moistered fingers to draw
grotesque figures.

Mrs. Shattel steadied the crib,
placed her hands on her knees and
stood up. A kerosene lamp from
which dim light shown, helped to
hide the dirty floor on which she
tread as she fetched a full bottle of
milk from the cupboard. © Six cups
were arranged on the table, then
proceeding to pour a few tablespoons of milk in each, she added
water to fill the cup, set the bottle
down and distributed the fluid to the
grasping hands. A _ half-loaf of
bread was then sliced and smeared
with molasses.

Little Johnny was in the hospital
with rheumatic fever—but Mrs.
Shatell was giving him little
thought. It was Mary, her eldest
child who absorbed her thoughts for
the moment. Mary had spoken of
her boy friend who worked at the
local theatre. He and Mary intended to marry, and Mary was bringing
him to the house tonight. Wouldn’t
Sailor Shattel be happy when he
learns of her good fortune, and
then—one mouth less to feed on
papa’s forty-two dollars a month.

Mrs. Shateel imagined a handsome man as she reflected in visionary thoughts. He had a good job
and would probably get her free
passes to the movies. The movies
—it had been years since she saw
a movie.

Faltering steps on the stairs interrupted her reverie causing her
hands to automatically pick up the
little bit of bread that remained,
and put it to her mouth. Mary was
here with Jack.

The door opened slowly and
Mary’s face glared in the doorway,
standing out in the black background that was the hallway.

“I’ve brought him Ma,” she said
excitedly, as she opened the door
wide. “Come on in, Jack, and meet
Ma” she continued, stretching out
her hand to catch her lover’s. Jack
walked in slowly, greeted by the
wide-eyed urchins as they looked up
from the floor.

“Here’s he is, ma,—we just come
from the movies. I——-Ma! What’s
the matter, Ma—why are you starrin’ like that?”

Jack stood motionless as Mary’s
mother gradually sank to the bench.
She kept her eyes on Jack, slowly
bringing her open hand to her pallid
forehead. She fingered the few
hairs that hung loosely from her
head, moving her body in a disturbed
manner from side to side, mutering
indefinite syllables, “God alhighty—
what'll Sailor say?”

She stopped moving, dropped her
hands by her side and limply rose
to her feet. She brushed aside the|
children in front of her and stepped

(Continued from Page Five) |

he twee ay
. Z art
~~? Ye

LI

Ti)

Dass

=U

MATA

from under the nose of her


PMID III

VARIOUS VERSE

MUO WO AWL AOL NUL UWE USUI

 
 

PHILOSPHER
I am a doer of great things.
The molehills of civilization
Are crushed by my heel

In my haste to conquer the mountains

Of the workings of my mind.

The stream of nonsensical humanity
Is but a ripple that forms, then fades

Into the limitless ocean

_Of supreme ideals, that make a man

Ruler of his own soul.

Self-satisfaction is as smug
As the stars of the glaring sky.
Endless, and sufficiently stable
To bind thoughts and deeds

Into the sublety of this nothingness

Called existence.

 

NOSTALGIA

A touch of melancholy like the glow

Of grey autumnal skies hangs over me:
I’m lonely for the sea and sky again;
Long to see sunsets bleeding or blushing,

Fading cooly, dying slowly away,

Or peering from behind storm-wounded clouds
Like a timid child, when a stranger nears,
Peeps through a hole in its mother’s apron.

A longing mutters ever in my soul

Like the sea, raging beyond the red pines,
Mumbles and sobs and pounds upon the shore.

I long to see the horizon heaving

While all the wild gulls hurl their macking cries
After the outbound ships: I long for home.

 

BACHELOR GIRL

You say you will not wed? Perhaps ‘tis so, —
But some day you will meet one you called friend
In other days when, with her, you would go

To gay affairs and parties without end:
One who gave up the dancing and the wine

And role of flirt to take a mother’s part.

And you will talk with her, try to define

The pleasures she has missed, while in your heart
You know yow’re sick of parties, modish gowns,

And well-timed whispered words of tenderness.

You dream of home, a husband’s fond caress—

You ever practise stern maternal frowns,

And in your dreams tuck kiddies into bed,

Whisp’ ring, ‘‘Goodnight!’’—Y ou say you will not wed?

THE COMFORTER
There, little girl, don’t cry!
He has broken his date with you?
But he will repent and sadly regret

And you must forgiwe and gladly forget
For the sake of the friendship you knew.

There, little girl, don’t cry!

There, little girl, don’t cry!
He has broken his vows to you

And coolly requested you send him the ring?
But truly it meant no significant thing—

Give at back and begin Love anew.
There, little girl, don’t cry!

There, little girl, don’t cry!
He has broken his neck? You jest!

But you must bear all the trials of life.
What do you think of becoming MY wife—
For there’s nothing more now to suggest?
THERE! LITTLE GIRL! DON’T CRY!

LOVE’S COMPACT

O magic box, whence potent odours flow
Whose scents collected where sweet gardens grow

Might charm the gods;

O wond’rous treasure-house of all that’s fine
From forest, river, fertile field, and mine,

In fairy pods;

Were’t not for thine administering grace
She needs must bashful hide her pretty face

From public view;

Without thine ever-present freshening aid,
How could enchant and charm this lovely maid

Her chosen few?

O messenger of peace and calm, the dove
T'o calm and soothe; the campact of my love!

WUATOTAIA,

5) ALITTLE BIT

O’ HEAVEN

 

Lee was a medical student. Reasonably frugal, he denied himself all
luxuries so he could support the
cumbersome but beautiful Helen, a
recent acquisition from the dance
hall. Physically and mentally Lee
stood above average, but amorously
a Don Juan. Helen was a simple, as
yet respectable young widow who
lived merely for the pleasures of
life; to whom life was full only when
virile arms encircled her and a cocktail awaited her indulgence. She
complained that life had been too
cruel—and now she would get all she
could. Lee was attempting to change
these ideas. She and he shared an
appartment.

Work had piled on insidiously and
Lee was confronted with catching up
or flunking out. He had tried studying alone the past few days but this
was too tedious, Lee therefore decided to combine forces with a classmate for the evening and be taught
rather than learn.

By early evening, Lee had already
informed his pretty Helen of the situation and apoligized profusely, having asked her to spend the evening
absorbed in a modern romance magazine or other intriguing publication.
She had acquiesced with a smile, telling him to do as he thought best.

His energies well spent and courage heightened, Lee returned to the
apartment a few minutes after midnight to find Helen interested in a
colorful story, picturesquely illustrated and comfortably settled in
bed. She welcomed him with a kind
smile, accepting his lips as he stooped in an affectionate “hello”. Helen
eyed him tenderly as he removed his
coat and rubbers, and then prepared
to retire. A few casual remarks to
his progress asked, Lee and Helen
embraced and said good-night.

The next evening the problem
arose again, and Lee excused himself gracefully, repeated the score of
apologies, cursed the inconvenience,
reproached himself for neglecting his
Studies — and departed for his
_friend’s house.

The evening’s work had been accomplished earlier than he anticipated. He walked briskly, breathing
| deeply of the spirit which provided
a sense of freedom and security. His
experience made him proud. It
created within a desire to do things,
Inspiring him to greater aspirations.
‘He felt ready to defend his course

 

a

Nal = loa sick seinen —— ee
ST
ee

 

   

January 31, 1936
“His Eye Was

Not Dim--”

When Jonathan Ward died, people
said, “Why did he have to die? He
was only fifty and had years of usefulness ahead of him. What his wife
and sons are going to do without
him, I don’t know. It makes you
wonder, sometimes, if there is a
God.” And the newspapers carried headlines: “Prominent Toronto
barrister stricken in prime.” “Mr.
Jonathan Ward dies suddenly in his
office today of heart failure.”

“Apparently in the best of health,
Mr. Ward left his home at 9.45 and
reached his office at 10 o’clock. At
11 o’clock his secretary, entering,
found him slumped over his desk.
Dr. Stewart, who was immediately
called, said death was due to heart
failure and had taken place just a
few minutes previously. It is reported that his widow is in a state
of collapse. His sons, Geoffrey and
Robert, 16 and 18, have been summoned home from Algonquin Park,
where they were camping. The city
mourns the loss of so genial and
withal so feearless a lawyer, so

Christian a man.”
eae

 

Candace Ward lay upon her bed
and stared with steady eyes at the
ceiling. She felt comfortable, at
ease, as if all her life she had been
seeking rest and only at this moment had found it. She did not
move; her hands lay outstretched
and long upon the covers; a sudden
langous made her close her eyes,
and they smarted a little,

“I am covered with a blanket of
the first snow. If I move my fingers, I'll feel it.” But she did not
move them. She knew the least
movement would smash through the
childlike serenity of her mind like a
stone hurtling through the quiet
waters of a pool.

And then the thought that was
now only a thought would spread
across her body in thin ripples of
pain. “Don’t move,” she said to
herself, but her lips did not form
the words. “I am standing upon a
hill and looking out over a plain. It
is snowing on my face, and I am
glad.”

Then, somehow, she was considering the fact of her husband’s death
with a mechanical clarity; she saw
it as an impersonal puzzle, one of
those questions to which there is no
answer. She turned and twisted as
if you might a doll, viewing his
character from every angle. Soon,

against any stigmatizing conscience | She knew, grief would blot out her
or conventional destructive morale.|thoughts as she had once seen an

| Home—where he allied himself free‘ly and conditionally, making for
| himself a paradise, — a sanctuary.
The situation made him selfishly
complete, learned, a man of the
world.

When he opened the apartment
door the darkness and impressive
silence told him that Helen was in
bed, asleep. He tip-toed to his desk,
where he touched the desk lamp,
moved his hand up the long neck,
found the switch and turned it.

The bed was empty, the room was
empty — and now his heart felt
empty. His eyes blazened while his
mind entertained every act of duplicity for his faithless Helen. His
forehead wrinkled, bringing a distrustful frown to his face. He pulled off his hat and flung it on the
chair, his feet moving towards the
closet, his coat slowly slipping from
his arms. He _ stopped suddenly,
made a complete turn, and looked at
the door. Helen had returned.

“Hello”.

Helen stood in the doorway, her
hat perched over her left ear, the
upper lip smeared with lipstick, and
her reddened, swimming eyes smiling, as she repeated in a roguish
tone “Hello”. Her face was a guide
to her flagrant conduct.

Lee turned his back in disgust,

murmuring in an indifferent tone|

tone, “Hello,—that’s a nice way of
staying home”?

“Whatsamatter — she smiled taking enough steps to bring her well
into the room, removing her hat in a
wide sweep of her hand, “It wasn’t
my fault.”

(Continued on Page Five)

 

overbearing bee blot out the softcurled heart of a moss-rose, and the
familiar feeling of helplessness came
over her,

But now she saw Jonathan as one
who, long separated from her, returning, brought no remembrance of
Shared emotions. She could not associate herself with him; it seemed
as if he had never lived, had never
loved and held her; as if her life had
always been as it had been before
she married him, a pleasant immersion in self, serene, yet walking as
a baby walks, being at once a reality
and an experiment.

my Ke

It had gone, that married life of
hers, as her other life had gone
when she became Jonathan’s wife.
She remembered the first days of
the honeymoon striving vainly to recall her former self, her agreeable
self-sufficiency and habit of selfmockery, But he had absorbed her
in his vital strength, drawn her into
the swift flow of his blood. The even
tempo of her life hurried to match
the hastening march of his. She remembered the frantic struggle to
retain her own individuality — she
had thought it worth saving then
—but the utter hopelessness was
realized completely one night when
she asked him, “Why do you love
me 2” It was realized completely in
his answer, “Because you’re part of
me.” And from that moment she
had ceased to impress herself upon
him, content merely to be beside
him, no rebellion in her attitude.

She had a faint Sense of loss at
first, then she wondered what she

(Continued on Page Five)

 
;
f
:
ie
|

4

3.7 2

ee

vet

 

   

” GAZETTE
_ BOOK REVIEW

 

God of the dear old Mastada’s
morasses:

God . . . whose love pervades
medieval mud,
Grant us the power to prove by
poison gases
The needlessness of shedding
human blood.
—Siegfried Sasson.

“WE DID NOT FIGHT”

This book is written by pacifists
of various nations relating their
war-time experiences.

The preface states the book is not
for propagandist purposes. It is
rather the story of different persons
with their divergent views who resisted war service. They include
Quaker and Communist; theologian
and parliamentarian; Briton, German, Austrian and Frenchman.
With such a variety of reasoning behind their widespread views, one
cannot help applauding some and
criticizing others.

These people opposed war. They
found expression from serving by
preferring to help in Ambulance
Corps rather than suffer the mental
torture of solitary confinement;
from being chosen at random to be
shot for rebellion to the conscript
who refused to march in step.

Granted, the volume was not intended to be a hand-book for pacifists, nevertheless one can’t help
scoffing that future rebels to war
can be moulded by “charity and
good-will, and convincing them of
their errors,” as Canon Sheppard
claims. Too many of those who have
suffered deeply refuse to use emotion to turn people against war; the
intellectual is a hopeless minority
to stop war.

Mussolini and Hitier did not use
charity and good-will to achieve
power. What a blessing to find
some soul-stirring, mob appealing
cry for pacifism.

“The 16,000 conscientious objectors
(in Britain) have become the twelve
million voters of the Peace Ballot
of 1935,” says Julion Bell. Have
they? Besides being matured, these
voters are the ones who recently
elected a Conservative government,
whose war-like spirit has been recently shown by filling the Mediterranean and Egypt with forces.

However, there is much for the
pacifist to point to with pride. The
refusal of British dockworkers to
load ammunition to be used against
Russia in 1920; the peace ship of
Henry Ford with its fruitless mission but noble intent; the action of
Karl Liebknest voting in solitary
protest against German war expenditures.

Many refused to fight, due to political or religious views. The German navy refused in 1918 for the
somewhat unethical but very good
reason that they preferred to live.
Acting without authority, the high
command of the navy attempted the
grandiloquent gesture of throwing
their fleet against the British squaddon. The sailors were not asked if
they wished to join in this impresSive action.

Waiters serving the officers overheard the contemplated plan; the
sailors mutinized and returned to
port. Some were thrown into prison,
but their comrades came valiantly to
the rescue.

Of all the warring nations, Austria
with its seven zealous peoples, was
notoriously loath to fight. One evening after an advance the Austrian
guards were surprised by a strong
counter-attack. A whole Czech regiment, men, officers and equipment,
had joined the Russian forces.

The lot of the pacifist is a difficult one. Sir Norman Angell and
Bertram Russel, each write stirringly on the almost irresistible pull
from the sight of friends and relatives, in fact every institution of the
State pulling one way and the unfortunate pacifist attempting to resist its power,

England during the war claimed to
be fighting a reactionary enemy, yet
was placed in a most paradoxical |
position when she took the task of
fighting the new Soviet State in

 

1919.

The whole farcial situation is fur
_ ther described by a British Socialist,

(Continued on Page Six)

 

PERSONALS

Professors from all faculties of
the University are now engaged in
presenting a series of Extension lectures in various parts of the province and New Brunswick. Under the
direction of Hamilton Baird, B. Com.
1928, and Ben Guss, B.A. 1928, LL.B.
1930, a Dalhousie Alumni Society
| was organized in Saint John, and a
course of lectures arranged for the
winter months. Rev. D. C. MacKenzie, B.A. 1980, has also been
active in Malagash, and Dr. T. A.
Lebbetter in Yarmouth has arranged
a series of Sunday afternoon lectures
for the next three months.

 

 

On January 7, 1936, a son was
born to Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Turnbull
(Jessie Gladwin, B.A. ’29, of Montreal.

 

Arthur Jubien, B.A. ’27, who has
been employed with Price, Waterhouse & Co., Montreal, has left this
organization and is now with J. Walter Thompson Advertising Agency,
also of Montreal.

 

The following items of news concerning graduates and former students have been received recently at
the Alumni office:

Rev. Ramsay Armitage, B.A. ’09,
who for some years had been rector
of the Church of the Messiah, Toronto, has been appointed Dean and
Rector of Christ Church Cathedral,
Vancouver, B.C.

 

The members of the New York
Alumni Club for 1936 are:—

Hon. President—Dr. E. Ross Faulkner, B.A. ’97; M.D.M. ’01.

President — Piers Brookfield, B. Sc.
"16; B. Litt. (Oxon).

Vice-President — Mrs. Edward Corsi
(Emma Gillies), Arts ’14,

| Secty.—Douglas Thompson, B.A. ’23.

Treasurer—Marjorie Ellis, B.A. ’27 ;
M.Sc. 730.

7”7—_—_——————
RO ee A EB

 

 

 

Hon. Thane Alexander Campbell,
B.A. 715; M.A. ’17, has been appointed Premier of Prince Edward Island.

 

Dr. Maxwell McOdrum, B.A. "23;
who has completed a course in Divinity, was inducted into the charge of
the Presbyterian Church, Sydney,
C. B., on December 23rd, 1935. His
father, Rev. Donald McOdrum, B.A.
"97, presided at the service of induction of his son.

 

Professor Murray Macneill, Registrar of the University, in addition
to his duties at Dalhousie, has accepted the post of Civil Service Commissioner for Nova Scotia.

 

Dr. Frank J, Hebb, M.D.C.M. ‘32.
who has been practising in Liverpool, N. S., has sailed for England,
where he will undertake post graduate work, and make his home in
future. Dr.
M.D.C.M. ’85, has taken over the

practise at Liverpool.

 

George Millar Campbell, B.A. ’21
is now on the staff of the University
of Saskatchewan, at Saskatoon.

 

Dr. John William Denoon, M.D.C.
M. ’31, accompanied by his wife, was
in Halifax recently, on leave from
his post in West Africa. After a
few days’ visit in Nova Seotia, Dr.
and Mrs. Denoon left for the West,
where they will visit relatives for
some weeks.

 

William S. MacNutt, B.A. "30, after obtaining his M.A. at the University of London, has accepted a
post on the staff of Upper Canada
College, Toronto.

 

Rev. Williard C. Picketts, B.A. ’32,
is the minister of the United Church,
Glassville, N. B.

 

Dorothy Eleanor Redmond, B.A. 33,
is now a medical student at Toronto
University, living at Wymilwood
Residence, Queens Park.

 

 

Norman Graham Reid, B.A. "14, is
principal of the Collegiate Institute
at Regina, Sask.

 

Evan Benjamin Rogers, B.A. 33,
‘is now in London, where he is pre| Paring for the degree of M.Sc. in
Economics, to be conferred in May,
1936.

 

John Gordon Ross, LL.B., 1926, is
now in Washington, D. C.

Douglas K. Murray,

?

   
   
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
    
 
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CAMPUS CROSS WORD

 

 

 

Horizontal | Vertical
1. A possessive pronoun.
1. Mercury.
: ‘ 2. What the Hall girls do all the
3. Uriah’s surname is pronounced eh
og ols : fee 6. First letter of a well-known
7. Famed for his green ves Sorority,
14. Initials of first names of a| 12. Nellie Holman’s better half.
well-known couple. 15. This comes with measles.
16. Alma Mater of our physical] 16. An objective pronoun.
instructress. | 13, Part of the inferior extremity
19. Initials of stage manager | (plural).
(Glee Club) 18. A conjunction.
s | 19. Initials of president of Delta
21, “Pale and ——_—~
: . | Gamma.
24. Fisher has this 20. Initials of one of our star
27. Degree that interests the Meds s| basketball players (female).
29. Donkey. 23. The Little College is located
33. Initials of a ruminating com- here.
merce student. 36. Associated with Lindberg.
35. Initials and surname of a fam-| 37. The professors keep this on
ed instructor. the students.
41. Part of the library reserved] 38. A call for help, with the letfor men. ters shifted.
45. Initials of a budding Caruso. | 39. Delirium tremens,

(See Page 8 for eee OMEN) te

ee 5a aitctenstys “wan, W you en aa LITTLE BIT—

ed suspiciously, “Well, if you go out,
I can’t see why I can’t go out. How
do I know where you go”?

Lee looked at her with stern eyes—
piercing through her into the darkened corner of the room, a hopeless
countenance covered his face

Helen closed her eyes, opened them
again when Lee turned the switch
over his head, then nestled her head
on his broad shoulder, and whispered “Aw come on—old sourface”’, her

voice settling in a weak, cracking
laugh.
Sag

THEY SHALL NOT DIE—

(Continued from Page Four)

(Continued from Page Four)

“I suppose someone phoned and
wanted you to play bridge,” he offered, as he sat down at his desk.

“That’s it,”—she replied, “I went
to play bridge, but I can’t play
bridge, so I helped with the serving.”

“Evidently. served yourself and
forgot the others,” retored Lee beratingly.

Lee tried to ignore her as he prepared his toilet. Helen pucked her
lips and shrugged her shoulders.
“Aw, come on—old sourface,” She
dani a clumsy effort to desirable
herself.

In bed a few minutes later, suffering an uncurbed mental repugnance
in silence, Lee turned the pages of
his text-book, staring at them blankly. Helen beside him looked on contritely, her eyes lazily reading his
thoughts. Unresistingly, he turned a
scornful glance at her, and was met
with a simple, appealing smile. He
yielded to her pleading expression—
and returned the smile.

Why did you do it, Helen. I
thought we were to be honest with | |He turned on his personality full
each other and not do anything like | power and let her have it.
this.” ! When the last waltz came, she

Helen looked at him questionably, | was dancing close to him, her hair
her right eyelid. drooping over a| with its tantalizing perfume against
bloodshot eye, “What do you want

his cheek and her eyes closed in conme to do dear, when you go out”! |tentment as they glided in perfect
“Gosh, Helen”, he pleaded.

“T’ve | harmony in three- -quarter time. He

got to study.”
Her lips tightened as she answera ieeeaseaaeeagteietieeeeaielgeesesieectaenniancame ane,

John Keith Russell, B.Se. 1930,
who secured his Ph.D. from McGill
in 1933, is now with the International Paper Co. at Hawkesbury,
Ontario.

towards the crib, looking at Mary
and Jack, who were standing erect
in front of the open door. She blended her speech with the rocking
movement of the crib as she sighed,
“IT guess it’s alright, Mary—a col
ored man can provide the Same as
a white.”

MERGER—

(Continued from Page Four)
and he became utterly charming.

 

 

 

ipast, but the present was still
mystery to him, but that only made
her seem more intriguing, more desirable. He had told her everything
he had ever done since he had left
high school.
ae The music ended softly and two
Dr. Fred I. Schwartzberg, M.D.C.
M. 1932, is practising in Paterson,
New Jersey, and is also one of the
staff in orthopedic surgery at the
Hospital for Joint Diseases, Madison Ave., New York City.

At the door she asked:

“Do you mind if I go home alone
in a taxi? I’d much rather than—
this time, Joe. But I’ll see you here
again, won’t I?”

“Of course, Mary. But I want to
see you soon. Tomorrow. Where
do you live? Where can I find
you?”

“Here’s my card. You can always get me there except on Thursday—then I’ll be here—dear.” She
smiled deliciously at him as the taxi
pulled away. He watched it disappear, then by the light of the street
lamp Joe read the card. it said:

Eat at The Gaiety Cafe
M. Johnston, Prop.

Rey. Reginald W W. H. Wollaston,
Arts ’27-’30, King’s, was ordained
in Lincoln Cathedral by the Lord
Bishop of Lincoln in December, 1934,
and is now Chaplain- -Superintendent
to the Lincolnshire Diocesan Deaf
and Dumb Association, Lincoln, England.

 

William Daniel Woods, B.Sc. *31,
has joined the Royal Air Force, and
in November was in the “Far East”
on duty.

fh

|

had learned everything about nee

ifar shadows of the room.

 

(by two the dancers left the hall. |

Page Five

 

JUDGMENT HANDED DOWN
IN SHIRREFF HALL CASE

Judgment in the case of Dora
Dumm (blonde) v. Otto Nobetter,
which was tried before Mr. Justice
Dentz-Fogg without a jury.

Dentz-Fogg, J.: In this case the
plaintiff is suing the defendant for
breach of promise of marriage and
for damages for not being allowed
out nights for a week due to defendant failing to return her to
Shirreff Hall on time. The defendant placed a counter-claim for the
return of a Fraternity pin.

The essential facts relied on by
the plaintiff Miss Dumm, is that the
defendant gave her his Fraternity
pin and said that he’d “give her a
ring tomorrow.” The defendant
pleads that all he meant wag that
he would telephone her, and that he
only loaned her the pin.

Now, when a young man tells an
eligible young lady that he will give
her a ring, just what may she, as an
average English speaking person,
take him to mean? Analyzing this
carefully it is clear that the word
“give” can only mean “to donate.”
The word in dispute, however, is the
word “ring.” The Oxford dictionary defines this word as meaning “a
circlet usually of precious metal and
often set with gems worn round
finger at ornament, or token, especially of betrothal or marriage” or a
secondary meaning is a circular enclosure for prize-fighting. As a
verb it may also mean “to resound,”
but how could anyone promise to
give a “resound”? The defence
have not suggested that a circular
enclosure for prize-fighting was
meant, hence the only meaning any
sane person can take from the words
is that he intended to give her an
engagement, or wedding ring. If
he only meant to say that he would
converse with her by means of an
instrument of communication known
as the elephone, then he should have
said so and saved everyone concerned a lot of trouble.

In order to give this case all the
attention and consideration due to
it, I, in the popular vernacular,
made a “date” with the plaintiff and
took her to the cinema (“show” to
you). The picture was very sad and
the dear, innocent, abused, misguided, and harmless girl cried on
my shoulder. Now how could the
defendant be so cruel to such a
tender, modest morsel of humanity ?
I took her to the restaurant afterwards, but she said she wasn’t
hungry. (You should have seen the
check, however). While there she
told me she needed a new hat, but
had spent all her allowance, so I
was persuaded to lend her five dollars. (The defendant will be required to repay the court this five
dollars if the plaintiff does not.)

On the way back to Shireff Hall

“HIS EYE WAS NOT

(Continued from Page Four)

had lost, and finally even wondering
ceased. To her friends she remained
to same, smiling, and as before, enigmatic. But her mind was furnished
with another’s thoughts.

*

* *

and
the

said
Now

“T must get up,” she
tried to move herself.

 

thought spread, “I am alone. He’s
gone—he’s gone. That means I’m
dead, too.”

She tried to sit up, but fell back,
her hands clutching the blankets to
her mouth, her eyes peering into the
“Where
are you, Jonathan?” Her voice went

|up in a scream and her head turned
}and turned upon the pillows.

* *

Mrs. Ward sat in the library; the
funeral service was over and she
was waiting for her sons to return.
She sat passively in an armchair,
hands linked, head back. She felt
that the whole room was bearing
down on her—“the heavy law books
are pressing my eyelids down, the
novels are on my hands, and on my
feet—on my feet the firebench he
used to sit on.”

She had an almost childish pleasure in imagining the large volumes
on her eyeballs, her hands, and on
her feet the firebench. “That’s why
I can’t open my eyes—his books are
there: they are sinking into me.”

The room whirled and she saw
imprinted on the inside of her eyelids a kaleidoscopical group of figures—the books, the windows, the

Ba

 

‘turers,

she explained that the only reason
her parents had sent her to college
was “to get a man,” and that it was
cruel of Otto Nobetter to tamper
with her affections in such a manner. (Whereupon she wept on my
shoulder again.)

Now it is a well known and established fact that women attend
universities solely in search of
matrimonial prospects. That is
why we have a women’s residence,
any male who is so inclined, then
If these women are to be jilted,
great injury will be done. Women
will cease to come to the university,
thus causing the institution a financial loss. Thus to guard against
this we must hold the defendant
liable for breach of promise.

A further point arises. The defendant jilted, wilfully, maliciously,
and negligently, the blonde plaintiff
and transferred his attentions to a
red-headed waitress. It is a well
known rule of law that “gentlemen
prefer blondes,” hence blondes must
be given precedence over all other
types of females. We must not in
any way prejudice the blonde market or injure preferred hair-holders.
The plaintiff being a blonde, is entitled to first claims on the assets
of the defendant. This rule was invoked in favor of peroxide manufacthus it would injure their
business to give preference to red
heads, and this would be a restraint
on trade, which cannot be allowed.

The defendant also gave the plaintiff his Fraternity pin and it is a
custom, so long established that it
has become law in this university,
that the giving of a Fraternity pin is
equivalent to betrothal, and that it
signifies that the donor will, when
circumstances permit, replace it with
a diamond ring. Gentlemen should
not give their Fraternity pins to
young ladies unless their intentions
are honourable. Thus I hold that
the giving of this pin, and other
reasons mentioned previously, entitled the plaintiff to sue for breach
of promise after the defendant
broke off this engagement. I also
hold that since this breaking-off
was the defendant’s own malicious
act, he cannot demand the return of
the pin.

I hereby order the defendant, Nobetter, to pay to the plaintiff, Dora
Dumm, the price of a diamond ring
and a return ticket to Niagara Falls,
The defendant is also ordered to pay
the costs of this action including
the money spent by me in taking
the plaintiff to a show, etc., and to
repay the five dollars hanes by the
Court to her.

(Reporter’s Note: The Judge
pawned his Fraternity pin long ago,
so hence has been able to give a

|fearless judgment in this case.)

fireplace where he used to stand
looking down at her, his face with
its black brows, the upraised finger
when he wanted to stress a point,
and her own feeling of being always
a pupil—all whirled before her in
visible images. She felt hysteria
creeping into her throat, and with

an effort she opened her eyes.
* *

Her two sons came in.
you should be in bed. You must
rest. And they stood gazing
down at her doubtfully, their rush
solicitude checked as she looked at
them and said, “Why must I rest?”

They could not answer her, but
stood, breathing heavily as from a
physical encounter. She sald, “Life
goes on, you know.”

They started. Geoffrey put his
hand to his mouth and played nervously with his lips.

Candace found herself thinking,
“I must get Jonathan to correct him
of that. But Jonathan’s dead. You'll
have to do it yourself. Oh, I can’t.
I’ve never done it. Jonathan, Jonathan, where are you?”

Robert moved and_ said, “But,
Mummy. ”. She said nothing, and
the three of them looked at one another, Candace’s eyes going from
son to son, their glances firm on
her face.

“What’s going to happen to them?
They had everything from him. They
were utterly dependent. Poor little
souls, how lost they must feel.” And
she instinctively put out her hands
to them. They grabbed for her, and
Candace for the first time in her life
felt she was needed.

“Mummy,

 

 
Lice nning on “Nov. 20th, 1935, Dr.
ects Mi ae president of the University,
~ |has been giving a course of lectures
jtwice a week, at the University, on
‘|the development of Greek ideas and
~linstitutions. These lectures are held

e n me “been achieved in the Psychics Laboratory on Wedws it support from nesdays and Fridays at five o’clock,

   
  
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
    
 
  
   
  
  
  
  

Not crowded are open to students and ‘public, and
aes tions: of former days, have been largely attended. Dr. Stan= ee pPnne bay V€lley resumed these lectures after the
Christmas vacation, due to the de~|mand for them, and will continue for
some weeks in order to complete the
course.

Is his

"ater 2 ee or fom. their
oa. ~~ 
e best poke-check in league.

€ . che 1, is ee Gination. Dal-|third year with Dal.
mh , having won the bye, waits * *

the S Wahdeden and Blue Sunocos

lec de an opponent for her in the

lay-downs for the right to repre
_ Sent Halifax in the Provineial play
‘missing regulars are ready

to iy a! win bed their positions,

and Ernie Mosher is again on hand

with his valuable coaching assist
. The team is made up of boys

a. SS are on edge and possess more

2 o = ‘real Dalhousie spirit than

*

Jimmie Graham, right wing on
the first line, age 21, formerly from
‘Truro but now lives in Halifax. Jim
is in his second Pre-Med. He has a
bullet like shot which is about the
best in the league. Before coming
to Dal, Jim starred with Colchester
Academy. This is his second yeear
with Dal. Jim is becoming a terror
to opposing defensemen.

* *

“Pooh” DeWolfe, left wing on first
line, age 23, hails from Oxford, N. Ss.
Pooh is a future lawyer and is now
in his first year Law. Was former
AAcadia Star in football and hockey.
Pooh’s fast skating, along with his
stickhandling and experience, makes
him a valuable man on the team.
Pooh is second leading scorer in the
league.

*

d to associate for the
oe will give all they

_ Championship.
cer us Dalhousians, Alumni wid
dents, face the situation frankly.
.. Do-we ‘not owe these boys our sup“i Port? When the final play comes
ae let us see that our AAAlumni
nembers are on hand to show the
le nts haw 2 a team should be sup
- ea

Jack Buckley, Captain, centre, age
25, Halifax. Jack is in second year
Law. Previous to this year he has
tintaged with Acadia and Loyola in
hockey and football. Is third year
| With Bengals, coached them last year.
“| Jack’s playmaking makes him valuable to Dal. 7
* * *

Pat Patton, left wing, age 22,

> |Montreal. Pat is in second year
‘|Pre-Med and formerly played with
the McGill Juniors. This is his sec
) oud year with Dal. Pat’s fast skat-|;

Saghias Mullirie;. right wing, age
slo Halifax. Johnny is in second
year Pre-Law. Played his former
|hockey with St. Mary’s High School
and Intercollegiate teams. This is
his second year with Dal. Johnny’s

specialty is back checking, rarely
eh eee letting his man get away from him.
* * *

; THE TEAM.

. following “Pen Pictures of |
k Chasers” appeared in a recent

es

George (Duke) Corston, centre,
age 19, Halifax. George is a newcomer this year, taking an Arts degree. For the last three years
starred with H.C.A. in Halifax High
School league. Also played Junior
hockey with Halifax Crescents. His
tricky stickhandling makes him a
scoring threat at all times.

* * *

* * *

Le _ Bob MacLellan, goalie, age 22,
_ makes Truro his home. This is Bob’s
| = year in the nets for Dal. Prior

Pete Stanfield, left wing, age 20,
Truro. Pete is studying Engineering. Formerly played with Ashbury.
This is his second year with Dal.
An injury at the first of the year
kept Pete from seeing early action.

f *+ * *
op _ Howie Prat, goalie, age 23, Bridgevn. Howie took his B.A. degree
year and is now studying Eduon. War star goalie for King’s
in Intercollegiate hockey for the past
hree years. His steady goal-tending
s a great asset to the team.

* * *

Seek Gann Carroll, left defense, age
_ 20. Johnny is playing manager and
ga fine job of it. Will receive

* *

Charles (Bus) Walker, left wing,
age 22, Digby. Bus is an Engineering student. Has starred with Digby
and Annapolis for past several years.
Has been forced to retire through
illness. His place will be hard to fill
as he was a capable performer.

* *

Harry Smith, left wing, age 19,
Halifax. Harry is in Freshman Arts
this year. Played with H. C. A. in
Halifax High School League for the

‘St. Mary’s bakers cdeaing here,
es from Halifax and this is his

eee FS past several years. Harry can alm MacGregor, right defense,|ways be depended upon to turn in
), Halifax, Don is a Freshman|a good game.

ear ‘and headed for a B.A. de- * * &

Formerly played hockey with
A. and K, C. S. Don is one of
st breaking defensemen in
ie and is well up among

Frederick (Red, Sparrow, Alto,)
Payne, trainer, age (7), Halifax.
Red’s fame is known throughout Dal
and Halifax. Is indispensible as
trainer and equipment manager.
Red’s virtues are his quiet voice and
ability to hand out cigars; his deftie is qa about ness as a scandal-monger, his virtue
of exaggeration, and in general his
reputation as general nuisance, and
last, but not least, his obsequious
diplomacy. Red will be best remem\.| bered for forgetting the football
S.|uniform in that memorable season

* * &

s lead-|of 1935—he still claims that’s why
n¢ d has| Dal won.

A a

r. eee

ca ue
aes Wa “
ad 7 il r eae os aor? s a

hi rz
a a ee

ee ES ee

ee

i ete s —

JS
 paddous1E GAZETTE

 

J anuary 31, 1936

 

CROP ROTATION IN

 

 

an alumnus to select as a subject,
when his only peculiar qualification
is an association with the University
retained after graduation? Obviously it must be a comparison of
students, past and present, together with an appropriate tear for
the good old days.

Being exceptionally anxious as a
freshman to get the best out of college, I took Biology one. That was
in the haleyon days of 1922. The
microscope next to mine was occupied by a gangling individual from
(of course) Pictou County. One of
the exercises in those times (it has
since been discarded owing to danger
of severing the windpipe) was the
scraping of cells from the inside of
the cheek with a scalper, and subsequent examination. The boy next
to me was in trouble—the cells under
the microscope must be unusually
thick—he couldn’t see through at all.
|Investigation soon abolished the
trouble. The material from inside
his mouth was not cells but a blob
of oatmeal porridge, only a little the
worse for wear.

That boy was what we used to call
in our best moments a typical Dalhousian. We have all seen him, perhaps in Sodales or in one of Dr.
Bronson’s groups, dressed in badly
fitting clothes and in need of a haircut, but speaking very seriously
about some phase of education in the
abstract. If there is one word in the
language which could not be used to
describe him it is ‘slick’, At the end
of his Dalhousie course he frequently moved off to Oxford or Cambridge
for more.

Now I know, and so do most other
Alumni resident in Halifax, that this
boy and his kind no longer dominate
the University as they did then. Ten
or fifteen years ago nearly two
thirds. of the men in Arts and
Science were Canadian students from
outside Halifax. Today the number
is closer to one third. (61 percent
and 43 percent are the figures. ) We
graybeards of the Alumni with our
sentimentalities, — are in danger of
concluding from that fact that the
University is going down hill. Such
a view, since it is flattering to ourselves, is to be regarded with suspicion. Probably we are prejudiced
witnesses, unlikely to be just in our
interpretations of the present generation of Dalhousians. When the
present Dalhousians make up the
Alumni they too will doubtless question any tendency to alteration of
the student body. Hence it is proper
that the analysis to follow should
deal with facts only, and not opinions about the changing student body |
in Arts and Science.

Supposing you were to examine

THE ARTS FACULTY

By F. RONALD HAYES, ’26.
Pestered by the Editor, what’s

After graduation I was away from
Dalhousie and Halifax for several
years, during which the first signs
of crop rotation were noticable, so
that the picture changed in this
manner:

    

d} ty)
wx Yy
FIR
OTHERS
4A

The differences are prophetic rather than striking; a trend toward
diminution in the proportion of
women students which has been con‘tinued since, and a fourfold increase
in men students from outside the
British Empire, largely American.

Since 1930 these tendencies for
change have continued, together with
a third one already mentioned, namely a decrease in the proportion of
British men from outside Halifax.
Today in 1936 there are ten times
as many non-British students in
Arts as there were 10 years ago,
aaktie up 18 percent of the total |
men.

Here are the illustrations necessary to bring the story up to date:

 

This brief account of the Arts
faculty would not be complete without a record of the total enrolment,
is given

which
graph:

in the following

IFO

7o7TaL ARTs &

Sciéwce ENROLMEN
DALHOUSIE
Rams

450

 

   

t

|
Se 2a
YEAR

34 36

Among the possible causes of
change in the student body there may
be listed:

The Depression.

A spreading of the fame of Dal(ee into distant countries.
The increased matriculation stand
 

the last pages of a University Calen-! ards at Dalhousie, which encourage

dar, or a Directory published by the
Students’ Council. You would find
there a list of all the students with
home addresses. It is a simple matter to extract from the list, information necessary to draw up a classification of the Arts faculty on these
lines:
1. WOMEN students.

2. LOCAL men students (i. e
Halifax, Dartmouth, Bedford etc.)

3. BRITISH men students from
outside Halifax (almost all are from
the Maritime Provinces and Newfoundland). :

4. OTHER men students (almost
all from U. S. A.)

When I was a student the situation
with reference to our classification,
was this:

  
 

OTHERS

a.

It is readily seen that Class 4
searcely existed at all, while Class 3
was quite large. The remarkable
stability of the University is also
noteworthy.

inferior students to go elsewhere.

A diminution in the number of
students coming to college from
smaller local centers.

A general migration of Maritime
students to other universities, together with increased activity in
Memorial College, Newfoundland and
Prince of Wales, Charlottetown.

American students marking time
in Arts while they wait for matriculation into professional faculties,
e.g. Medicine and Dentistry.

Church union.

High pressure ‘advertising on the
part of other universities.

The idea held by some that fees
are higher at Dalhousie than elsewhere.

 

Dalhousie

R. H. Macleod, B.A. ’26, LL.B. ’29,
was married to Miss Elizabeth F.
MacGregor, of New Glasgow, on
Christmas Day. Mr. Macleod practises in New Glasgow.

 

Miss I. Harriet Roberts of Saint
John, B.A. ’26, M.A. ’82, was recently married to Eugene Alfred
Forsey, a well known members of
the department of Political Science,
McGill University.

 

Dr. Gerald Tanton, of Sheet Har
There is no change | bour, M.D.C.M. ’35, was married to

greater than one percent in any! Miss Helen Scott, of Guysboro, on

class,
: ne
a a . m —
; Pink. 9 4
o2'h Wey ee ee a ee i oe
a *: i tg be te i. + s ae eo
: eee eee — a Wise re oo er. 5 ed
= 2 te Ei a Re ee ee a .
ie - ane *) 4 > , a” Pe oh ys . - .
ores Seems Pens. vy ee ; sol —
Fats at K Tis ie =a erat ie
‘ Pate a S.2 ate
rte = i = =

 

November 7, 1935. Dr. Tanton is

 

OBITUARY

During the period, April to October, while the activities of the
Gazette are suspended, a number of
Dalhousians—

. their worldly task done
Home have gone and ta’en their
wages.”

We noticed the following, and undoubtedly there are many others.
Perhaps kind correspondents. will
supply us with names known to
them, so that our list may be made
complete:

Rev. John Murray, A. & S&.,

Kenneth J. Martin, B.A. ’85.

Margaret Trueman (née Newcombe) |
B.A. 785.

Herbert C. Moseley, L. ’97-’01.

Chas. R. Hawkins, B.A. ’13, LL.B. ’20.

George A. Hutchinson, L. ’00-’01.

Georgee R. Morse, M.D.C.M. ’02.

Matthew G. Allison, B.A. ’86.

Helen Lovitt Wadding (née Wickwire), B.A. 727.

Viola Pearl Macaskill (née Bezanson), AA. & S. 04-05.

Alfred Ross Andrews, M.D.C.M. ’79.

Judge Frederick J. McLeod, B.A. ’90.

Rev. Alexander F. Robb, B.A. ’96.

64-69.

To the relatives, classmates and
friends the Gazette extends sympathy.

Reglem reternam dona est,
Domine,
Et lux perpetua luceat els.

 

Robert C. MacDonald, of Sydney
Mines, a son of Dr. Nathaniel MacDonald, who attended Dalhousie,
Eng. 1027-29, died very suddenly at
his home on December 10, 1935. He
was educated at Pictou Academy
and Dalhousie and had been on the
engineering staff of the Highways
Board for some years.

 

Dr. R. L. Blackadar, M.D.C.M. ’02,
died in Yarmouth of heart failure on
January 12, 1936.

 

Mrs. Roy Keeler(Grace Baker, B.A.
1910), died at her home in Dartmouth early in the New Year. For
five years, shortly after graduation,
she served on the Indian Mission
Board of the Baptist Church among
the Telegus, but was obliged through
failing health to retire. She was an
efficient and active worker in varipons public activities in Dartmouth,
and will be greatly missed by her
associates.

 

Archibald McColl, B.Sc. 1883, of
New Glasgow, died at his home in
that town, after a lifetime of active
service with the N. S. Steel & Coal
Company, for which he was general
|manager. Well known and esteemed
by everyone, Mr. McColl’s death is
greatly regretted by his fellow
townsmen.

 

John Andrew Fisher,, B.A. 1900
the well-known editor of the Pictou
Advocate, died at his home in Pictou |
on December 27th, 1935.

The town of Kentville was deeply

mayor, Gerald W. Lyons, LL.B. ’20,
on December 16, 1935. Mr. Lyons
had distinguished himself both in
business and public affairs, and was
one of the best known and esteemed
professional men not only in his own
town but in the whole of the province.

 

accident, December 13, 1935. For
thirty years he had served the community at Whitney Pier, his influence growing with the years, and
was regarded with esteem and affection by all who knew him.

LT Ss.

 

Marriages

practising with Dr. Duncan MacMillan, of Sheet Harbour, N. S

 

John C. Lewis, B.Sc. ’27, was married to Miss Claire M. Johnson, of
Wolfville, on December 26, 1935. Mr.
Lewis is a member of the Kentville
Publishing Co.

 

Howard C. Oxley, LL.B. ’34, was
married to Miss Marie Zwicker, of
Halifax, in December. Mr. and Mrs.
Oxley will live in Halifax.

 

Dr. Donald M. McRae, M.D.C.M.
’34, and Miss Gladys Emeline Wade,
jot Kentville, were married in Montreal on September 7, 1935.

58 branches at meetings of the H

Rev. Dr. John Macintosh, B.A. ’94,|all of which may be secured from
M.A. ’96, United Church clergyman | the secretary, H. eGrald Stairs, c/o
at Whitney Pier, Sydney, N. S., died; N. S. Light and Power Company.
from injuries received in a motor|Ltd., Capitol Building, Halifax.

News Notes

About The Faculty

Professor René Gautheron has
been named a Chevalier of the Legion of Honour, by the French
Government in Paris. Professor
Gautheron was recently awarded a
special medal by the French Academy, in recognition of the work he
has done in the Maritime Provinces
in calling attention to the language
and literature of the French Acadians.

 

he rd ’
1% 7% *

Professor A. R. Jewitt, of King’s
| College, has been awarded a Cornell
University fellowship in English,
combined with a graduate scholarship in English. He is on leave of
absence for the year 1935-36. Leslie
F. Casson, (M. A. Adelaide), has
been appointed to carry on Professor
Jewitt’s work in his absence.

* 7 *

Lionel Pearson, Lecturer in Classics, has been granted a year’s leave
of absence in order to accept a temporary part-time instructorship at
Yale University, where he will have
an opportunity to complete his work
on a book which he intends to publish. John H. Kent, M.A. (Queen’s)
is carrying on the work in the Classics Department during Mr. Pearson’s absence.

* * *

The following three members of
the University staff have been elected Fellows of the Royal Society of
Canada: Professors E. G. Young, R.
MacG. Dawson (who carried on Professor R. A. Mackay’s work in the
Department of Political Science for
the session, 1934-35) and C. C.
Coffin.

* %

On April 3, last President Stanley
delivered the address to the graduates at the Honors Convocation of
the University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colo., where Dr. George Norlin,
President of the University, conferred on him the honorary degree of
Doctor of Letters — “to honor and
signalise your own high distinction
as a scholar, teacher and writer.”

On June 10, last, President Stanley gave the Convocation address to
the University of Maine, where he
received the honorary degree of
Doctor of Laws.

 

NOSTALGIA WITHIN—

(Continued from Page Three)

tary, and such other officers as may
seem proper to the branch.

DOWN TO BUSINESS

After some more rather risque
clauses, the constitution gets down
to business:

“A branch shall have the privilege
of bringing before a meeting of the
Association any resolution, admissi| ble according to its laws, which has
|been discussed and approved of by
the branch. For this purpose the
secretary of the branch shall send to

 

saddened by the death of its popular| secretary of the Association a copy

of the resolution and it shall be the
duty of the secretary of the Association to move the resolution at said
meeting in the name of the branch.”

The constitution continues with
rules governing the representation

fax branch and other pretty details

So there you are. Nostalgia is
yours for the asking. Collect a few
Dalhousians and organize an Alumni
branch in your town. You'll have a

lot of satisfaction and you’ll never
regret it.

__—

BOOK REVIEW_

(Continued from Page Five )

 

who showed that Germany in her
turn felt she was doing to Russia
the very thing England pretended to
be doing to Germany herself.

After every war it is possible to
show good reason why the conflict
was inevitable. Granted that causes
for war are impossible to ever ¢ompletely abolish, if the person called
upon to fight has had the idea drilled
into him that war places him in a
nasty spot with no possible gain, he
will protest. As Julion Bell says,
the danger of war will be greatly
diminished, for “the threat of revolt
following disaster . . . few governments will dare disregard.”

 

 
 
   
  
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
       
 
  

 

 

——

ae

aig
_ s

t
:

  
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 

"

FY
es
oi - i
leg

<a

rs
oy

Shakespeare is the pilot for this
week’s stream,

From Hamlet’s soliloquy we borrow the theme.

“To die, perchance to dream,
AY, THERE’S THE RUB.”

* * *

| Ye seekers for M.D.’s—C. M. means

surgeries,

Hawk’s eye, lion’s heart, lady’s hand
are your credes;

Doc Graham’s affronts

May make you more prompt,

But I’d rather delay, and starve
Potter’s Field!

x oe *
The Bichemistry exams puts an end
to cram,
Forgotten, neglected, Bodansky’s
Text.

The Bacchus cohorts,
Their ladies do court,
But muffle the joy — Pathology’s

next.
ok * *
Orchids of the week, go to Helen the
meek,

Spurred on by remarks of the fore;

“To the party I'll go,

If a chaperone’s in tow,”

But the Juniors will invite no more.
* * *

Two years past, before the mast,

Sailed Ramsay the Bermuda way;

The suntan fair,

Led to feminine stare,

But what’s to keep the Keratosis

away.
‘ * * :
Revolutionary pride into the shadows
abide,
Boston’s Tea Party a thing of the
past;

The Dean’s Sunday fest
Topped all the rest,
But I’d still rather drink tea from
a glass.
* * *
The Wolf of Wall Street, you ask—
the inimitable Carl Trask,
His stocks like the swells in a squall;
From eight to twenty-three,
Simmon’s Bed Stocks for me,
But I venture his beds ride for a fall.
. * * #£
Dr. H. K., hastening all the way,
Was deterred before the Seniors’
stares;
His promptness is fine,
And his manner divine,
But spats, like tonsils, come in pairs.
* * *
Why the Greek fate, for our demoeratic state,
Queries Bengi
goats?
The worth of the cry,
Can no one deny,
But what of exams, with only Greeks
in our notes!
pee y
Out of the fastness of Shirreff
Hall, through the medium of this
paper, comes the startling news that
co-eds still exist at Dalhousie. Just
what prompted them into doing
something of apparent value is a
matter of conjecture. T. Y. M.
would hate to think it to be a desperate comeback at his few personal
remarks. To say the least, he had
expected that all should be taken in
the manner in which it is given. At
any rate, T. Y. M. hopes that a few
more news flashes might probably
urge Miss Co-ed to continue her
work and trusts that she will show
a vast improvement over her last
week’s effort.

of his laboratory

* * **

A word of warning to the inexperienced woman should find a place
here. In an attempt to bring the
fair name of the Medical Student
Body into disrepute, Miss Co-ed has
overlooked actualities. True it is
that the Meds did have an important meeting on the night of the
basketball game, but it is also true
that their group was well represented at that game, although of
necessity they did arrive a little
late.

ne

Do not forget that the stalwarts

of Med play an important part in

the extra-curricular activities at our
University. Football, basketball,

‘Students’ Council, Glee Club and

D. A. A. C., all show distinctly the

steadying influence of the doctors.

All are working for your betterment

apparently without appreciation. But
_ perhaps we expect just that.

_ $o, Miss Co-ed, if it be your wish
to continue as a columnist, think

=

 
 

that one over before you write, and
remind yourself of that dental column which appeared, but has also
disappeared.

ie) oF
Familiarity, perhaps, breeds contempt, but freshettes would be well
advised to respect their seniors and
also the “smoking” edict of Miss
McKeen. Save the Flood of abuse
until you have outgrown your childish ways, at least.
* * *

“Truth is beauty, beauty is truth,”
said Keats. Had he lived at this
time he probably would not have expressed such faith in beauty. Instead he probably would have quoted
T. Y. M. and exclaimed:

Rare the green Co-ed, who never

to herself hath said,

No matter what they do, I can do

to betterment;

With indigenous trite,

They attempted to write,

But remember, wise is the fool

that is silent.
Kk

A social rebirth has come to the
third year class. A stag party under the guidance of Trask, Simms
and Gold will take place in the near
future. The Seniors, as usual, will
probably follow the same suggestion
very soon.

i

A new era in the annals of the
Student Medical Society is here. The
suggestion for a journal has been

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Engineering
News

Inspired by Editor Pink’s words at
the last student forum the Engineers
are coming forth with their humble
contribution to the Gazette.

It is hoped that this column will
prove of interest not only to the Engineers but the student body in
general and for that reason will not
hodl strictly to affairs engineering.

It is a little late to welcome the
first year Engineering Class and
perhaps offer a word of advice. The
advice however is not necessary at
this time as many of the boys have
acquired it through experience in the
Xmas exams,

By dint of hard work and strict
application to your studies is the
only way to leave this school with an
Engineering diploma tucked under
your arm. Too many dances, shows,
parties, etc., are taboo, others before
us have tried it, the axe has fallen
hard and the weeping and wailing
has been long and loud. Some cf
you fellows who took a few humps
in the last exams now know that al]
play and no work makes Jack
dumb boy.

Do your job each day to the best

     

of your ability—learn to think for|

yourself — don’t expect to begin at
the top—reward comes as a result of
honset effort — thus did Mr. R. L.
Dunsmore of the Imperial Oil address the Engineering students at
the last meeting of the Engineering
Institute.

Shades of survey camp that linger
still — Professor Trueman discovers
some young scoundrels attempting to

very favorably received and an ac- put a wallop in the punch—The lime
tive committee, composed of Worrell,|Juice getting the best of Dargie the

Strong, Gold and Murphy, has been
appointed to lay its foundations.
Our faculty is also aware of its
value and are lending the Meds a
helping hand.

oe * *

Were Shakespeare seeking a plot
today he could have no better choice
than the panorama of the Medical
campus. The love tryst of Frank
Morse and Nancy at the hockey game
would inspire another “Midsummer
Night’s Dream’’, but neither the season nor the setting is very inspiring. Perhaps George Josephson had
the right idea when he disposed of a
Hertz for a Galay. Nothing quite
like riding before the Spanish Main.

Then again there’s Mark Brown
feeling that way about A. Peck, and
Al. F. leading poor Jack astray.
Odd, isn’t it, that the Elizabethans
used boys in feminine parts.

The tale of Hermia and Lysander
had nothing on Helen (school teacher), Spurr and Dave Tulk. Just
visualize:

Act III. Scene II (a wood in Forrest Campus, near Spring Gardedn
Road),

Dave: “Fair love, you faint with
wandering in this quaint place.”

Helen at top of her lungs: “It’s
not wondering that gets me—it’s
wondering how I’ll ever get through
Pathology.”

Puck (exunt for meeting with
Boyd).

Then there’s Lou Ryan, who might
easily suggest another Falstaff. He
lacks the abesity, but not the capacity. Imagine trying to borrow a
buck to get his gal home. Ay! there’s
the rub.

* * *

We fear that this one would stump
the bard. We could visualize Gladwin in an Elizabethan role, but the
Platinum Blonde from New York,
with him Saturday night,—Shakespeare would have to build a musical
comedy around her part. Too beautiful—too vivacious—and those eyes!
C. H, G,

eS ee ok

it is Rumored on the Rialto

—that a certain conventoinal Detroit nurse met with an accident in
Montreal and Dr. Gosse did the brain
surgery last week. Is it cerebral or
cardiac, Doc? Coincidentally a nurse
at the Public Health Centre has of
late shown a predilection for brain
surgery.

—That Bill Embree and Carl
Trask carried their washing to the
Family Theatre that certain afternoon. Was it scrofulous syphiliphobia that prompted the sanitary
methods?

* ok ae
We Wonder—

If Monk Smith’s leg was ever frac
tured! And why the sudden renewed

eet ch SSS SSS SSS SSS SSS

father.

night of the shuffle.

Lifting the stone at the main
South Street entrance will not require twenty husky students as called for in last week‘s “Gazette”, but

room, the stone lifting job would be

merely a trifle to these boys. (John, | “Why no, I don’t even know how t;: ithis time honoured function will not |

 

 

LE EE EE
—————— TTT Om

To the Co-eds

EE AE EE EE A A ET I A A A a a
ee eeeeeeeeFSFe

 

We wonder if Fran Gardner enjoyed “The Broadway Melody” —
three months is a long time to wait
for a show.

 

Have you heard about Helen Holman’s accident ?

 

There is something that we'll bet,
Bill Simpson is some Romeo. But
pretty mad is Juliet — Gwen, she
waits three hours for her beau.

 

“The music goes down and around”
most Commerce boys seem to think
the music has the right idea.

 

Travelling salesmen from Windsor
are more cautious than clergymen—
they don’t leave their gloves behind!

 

Were Innis MacLeod and Dougall
Sutherland converted to Tehovah or
did they convert the leaflet peddler?

“Time will tell” and so will we as

  
   

This is the first occasion that we
have had to wish our friends, and
others, the season’s greetings. Yes,
this is our first effort in 1936 to
tell you tales; we mention this in
case you may not have noticed the
absence of our column. No, we did
not meet with the same fate as that
columnist and storkteller. However,
we are now prepared; while we
can’t afford to pay for the services
of a bodyguard with our earnings
we could afford some accident insurance. Question: is a blow on the
map an accident? We shall endeavour to get some free legal advice from our friends down at the

soon as Bobby MacIntosh convinees| Law School and if they tell us that

Margo that he isn’t the big, kad

-y

| wolfe.

Do all the girls call Charlie Man.
ning and string him? Now, he
not accepting pleasant invitations be
cause someone might be fooling him

with the flanded “T” in the nea:
future. )

In Surveying 2 when it is not quite
clear how the author arrives at
certain conclusion, Professor Cop}
suggests we humour the writer b°

granting that he (the author) i
right anyway. I fear the second

year Engineers shall die of laughing

fits before the course is completed.! HOUSIE?

j-|sor .

 

we are not protected by that policy,
, then we shall have to take up box‘ing lessons like Steve. We how‘ever, don’t intend to be the aggres. nor even fight for the
love of it.

x TS

| And so there is to be no Delta

|Gamma ‘this year—simply because

!by $50.00 At first blush, the result
of the Council’s slashing would seem

| to be the beginning of the dec!inx
‘of Dal.

comment at
WITH DAL
to judge from the
WHAT’S WRONG

The other afternoon a few of the | has its imitation silver lining and

boys in the drafting room were dis
with Delta Gamma called off, we

cussing golf when one of the fellows | know that many lads will be able
only two (engineers of course). The|noticing the interested expression | to save a few pennies as they will
manner in which “scrapper” Moss| displayed by Virginia “Gracie” Meand “La Cucaraucha” Weldon juggle| Donald led him to ask her if she| rushing.

the flanged “T” around the drafting |ever Played the game. The answe re oe

as only “Gracie” can answer was

you will become better acquainted|hold the Caddie.”

 

activity at dances and the golf
course! Perhaps Lou Morrison and
Ev. Embree could enlighten T.Y. M.
on the matter,

* * cr

What blew in at 214 Robie Street
last Friday night! Who is giving
the piccolo lessons and who pays!

US £

Has Tony Donahue had his passport renewed for those ferry rides to
Dartmouth!

Why Zaudarer is so intent on attending eveery G. V. Clinic! Still
stlumming ?

What Dr. Mainland meant in advising the first year class to acquaint themselves with the living
specimen! Still, we’re inclined to believe him.

Bien ge yh ge

What prompted Harry Wilson to

announce his marriage of a year’s

duration!
ar Se

What a certain Biochemistry Prof.
(as if you didn’t know) would say
if asked for a loan of ten dollars!
All that was asked for was a few
measly marks!

Ed * *

Why the hurried exit from the
Cameo on Monday night! Please
tell us, Morrison. And how was
Worrell mixed, up!

*% 1% *

How Stenaford blossomed forth at
his coming-out party this week, and
did Dr. Smith enjoy Phi Chi’s hospitality!

wette om

Why Doe Simon Legree turned
“Doe Savage”!

* % *

Who is this Tony Burber Doctor
Graham constantly referred to, and
why he picked on the Dean’s for his
great descent!

a

Whether the Phi Kappa smoker
began at four or six! Paging Dr.
Seinewitz.

* ££ #

Whether our readers still enjoy
this column, and why he didn’t send
his weekly contribution!

oe * *

Let us pause from our reveries
and extend sincerest sympathy to
Harold MacLeod on the death of his

— 2 SS > SSSSsSSsSSSs S - SSSSSSsS>
i a
2 - eared oe eri Sc een a 4 2 > ; .o " - - eg se >}

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

COs) a ee are

Ss

 

| EATON’S

not have to stage the ante-Delta

| Of course there are regrets that

| be held.

 

 

when buying shoes.

Leathers carefully

22 RENOWN, pair

CANTERBURY
Oxford, pair....
Boots,  BEiT dice «xc

E

“TEATON

But we suspect that Dai!
\has already commenced her decline

We heard one girl say the+

chosen

9.00

|
|

 

  
 

Page Seven

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

Lancet

Neto

CIGARETTES

 

  

 

 

that she never missed!

 

 

 

girls’

 

Fine Craftsmanship
Quality Leathers

In Men's Boots

and Oxfords

| 6aionia Value, pair

for suppleness
strength — grain leather insoles that resist curling
and “bumping”—sturdy lining and
throughout—all promising comfort and wear beyond
most shoes selling at this regular price.
11, but not in each style. Black or brown calf—black
kid—black patent leather.

| Other poplar EATON Branded Line

solid

a ey

account.

leap year,” he said.
(Continued on Page Eight)

5.00

To hundreds of men it is a habit to say 6atonia
Appearance first caught their
eyes—plenty of dash and crisp masculine styles.
The price tag clinched the deal, 5.00 for oxfords and
boots in a choice of many designs—splendid craftsmanship and quality have kept

: them repeating
éatonia when they buy shoes.

Sizes 6 to

shoes are: 4.00

AC as a aN a te ee Se et 2 a i te a

8.00

BIRKDALE Ox- 6.00

fords, pair ....

 

 

 

 

 

 

Boots, pair
EATON’S—Second Floor

es

a: © ‘ine 2

and

leather

6.50

However, every cloud; Delta Gamma was the one dance

On the other hand, a well-known
member of the Sophmore Class is
of the opinion that the Council acted
wisely in deducting $50.00 from the

is

 
   
   
  
 

Wyk ie?
ais”

Dae eae ae
tn ede
es. by"
eee
Gk ss

ofan

 

hae
. 2 By
£
LP

“yF
4

mast

’ } a ‘i Ay a =
| gM es ‘

   

 

» i a ‘A
=" — gue
Te 4 fi .

NC” Ae ae
es iY
4

: vi

 

ead ae
¢ se! P te ae. e ive
wha, Pirie he 5
Lie ‘ha Bae Sy ort
Waa re
as .* 2% it
nh sh 4m r

~

Ask Students to Support

Bs Hockey Team in Playoffs

Three months ago the D.A.A.C.|and Black, we trust that at the
officials urged all the students to| basketball and hockey games that
turn out and back the Tigers, Dal-|are to come, your numbers will be
housie’s football team which for half| well over the three hundred mark,
a century has been an institution of|as you make your presence known

“eet

our university. The appeal was not| with plenty of noise from the side
made in vain, for on that Saturday | lines.

afternoon, when the team took the
field against the Wanderers, the

 

packed Dalhousie stands rose as one,| Pp]. ANS MADE FOR—

the band struck up and six cheerleaders went through their paces as

usie, 1-2-3 U-Pi-Dee echoed |a working majority,
Oe ; tion, by means of beer, etc., so playn

across the campus.

is wi i i i the weakness of certai ; |
bat * as the "DAAC ae ae - the Government that|The City Championships will probably be decided in the early
) once a AA.L. §

the students to give the Hockey and when the vote was taken,

(Continued from Page One)

Basketball teams some well-deserved ; ernment was turned out.

support.
The Hockey team starting the sea
son with the local papers terming lead the Liberals
them the “weak sisters” and other W. Fisher the Conservatives.
fought their way | Byrne will lead the third party

uninspiring names,

through the league until last week, | group,
before a mere handful of students | lot with him. 7
winners over | have a large majority—is there any
they skated off the ice,

This year the Rt. Hon. William
Frederick “Baldy” Armstrong will
and Rt. Hon. John
“Toe”

if anyone will throw in their
The Conservatives

the highly rated Sunoco’s squad by|one who can be trusted among the

a score of 5-3.

At the present time the team is
holding a bye, while Sunocos and
Wanderers are playing off for the
right to meet Dalhousie for the
championship of the City league.
The playoffs will consist of a three
game series the winner representing
Halifax in the provincial hockey
playdowns.

The first game.is to be played on|

Wednesday, Feb. 12th. Through the
cooperation of the Glee Club, the
band. is expected to be out in full

force. Congenial Johnny Morrison, Pp

the leader, is making every effort to

get his followers together for several

practices before the big games.

- The Alumni, who throughout the
schedule have usually outnumbered
the students, have promised its support for the approaching series. It
is certainly hoped that the students
will not give any of the Alumni an
opportunity of repeating the remark

_ made at the last game by an out-of
town alumnus, who enquired in a

-—__—_ ruffled tone,—“‘Where in the hell are

 


 

 

 

B
eW

Le

ghee

ea!
ii

the students of Dalhousie?”

Nor is hockey the only sport which
deserves attention at this time. Next
Thursday the Basketball team, Nova
Seotian Champions will start their
campaign for another championship,

 

Liberals to administer the beer.

_ PERSONALS

| Dr. William Stewart Woolner, B.Sc.

81, M.D.C.M. ’33, has been on the
staff of St. Mary’s Hospital, Portsmouth, Eng., for the past year. Dr.
Woolner paid a short visit to Halifax about Christmas time when the
ship on which he was acting as interim medical officer touched at this
ort.

 

Cedric A. Yeo, B.A. ’28, after securing his Ph. D. from Yale, has
been appointed as teacher in Latin
and French at King’s Collegiate
School, Windsor, N. S.

 

Pearl G. Young, B.A. ’25, is at
present working with the China Inland Mission at Chefoo.

SOLUTION TO CROSS WORD
PUZZLE.
Horizontal—1. Hg.; 3. Heap; 7. Herbie: 14, D. B:s.16,,_ M.. BE. 'S.;. 19.
J.D.; 21. Dan; 24. Ego; 27. M.D.;
29. Ass.; 33: R: H.; 35. EB. W.

Todd; 41. East; 45. B. S.

the prospects of which are very Vertical—1. Her.; 2. Gab.; 6. Pi;

bright. The game with Bar Harbour
proved that they have lost none of
their prowness, and that they may
be still considered the most powerful aggregation in Nova Scotia. Although the attendance at Dalhousie
Basketball games has always been
good, it is hoped that a still greater
number will follow the sport this
year.

And so followers of the Yellow

 

+ oo
2 AroFt™ SISy, 7.

    
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
  
 

    
  
   

KINGHAM
or 20¢- 25 for25¢-50

yea @ it

  
  

cs

12. Edward; 13. Legs; 15. Rash;
16. Me; 18. So; 19. J. M.; 20. D.
D,; 23. N. S.; 36. We; 37. Tab;
SE.00. S. 5.7 89.. D. TF:

| FACTS, FABLES—

(Continued from Page Seven)

FLASH!—there is to be no Shirreff Hall dance this term. No, we
are informed that the girls are not
getting even with the Council. The
explanation is quite simple; Miss
MacKeen says no dance because that
will run up the electric light bill too
much. But then that deficit must
ibe reduced somehow!

* of *

A friend of ours went to the
Millionaires - Boilermakers Ball and
took a co-ed from the Hall. He complained to us—but not about the lady.
As a result of his conversation we
have decided to write the following
letter. To the Engineer in Charge
of Buildings and Grounds: would it

¥ ry || be possible to widen the driveway at

the Hall? It is rather difficult—in
fact it is impossible—to drive to the
door when Miss MacKeen parks her

‘|ear in the middle of the road. Of
» || course,

a no-parking sign might
help.
: *

* *

One of our contemporaries had a
i\few remarks to say about Commerce. Without wishing to ignite
any spark that might cause civil
war, we say this. To be a doctor
you study medicine, to be a dentist
you learn about the teeth, to be a
lawyer you attend the Law School
(whatever they study down there)
and to be a teacher you study the
art of teaching. It seems to follow
that if you want to enter business
that you should know something
about commerce Our favorite phil
*»50¢ | oSopher Fong Wai says: If you close
“Wi | your eyes you can’t see the gold—

even if it is directly in front of you.

and the opposi
the Gov
|

|

 

————— ee

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Sports on Parade

(By the SPORTS EDITOR)

Despite accusations and other demoralizing criticism, the
Dalhousie team won the Championship of the Halifax Senior
Hockey League. Stranded in mid-season without a coach, the
pucksters lessened their pace for a short while to allow the
Wanderers to chalk up the only win against them for the

season.

* * *

An enthusiastic, loyal, rooting lot of fans, approving the
fine display, finally supported their team and cheered loudly as
Dal beat Sunocos, deciding first place honors in our favor.

* * *

Dalhousie is now in bye position, awaiting the outcome of
a two game series playoff. It will be several days before Dal
will again take to the ice, therefore exhibition games are in
order. The first will evidently be against the Hanna Brothers.

part of next week. :
Kk 2k ok
To Ed Cohen honors are unquestionably due. The brand
of hockey, in combination and individual play, shown by him
has won him top-birth as the most valuable man in the league.
He stands, undisputed, with the largest number of goals to his
eredit. DeWolfe and Graham did not deal easily with their
opponents and brought a commendable number of goals to their
eredit. To Bob McClellan and the rest of the boys we pay our
respects, wishing the entire team good forune on their journey
toward the Provincial Senior Hockey Championships.

Athletic games throughout Canada were curtailed out of!
respect to the tragic passing of our beloved monarch. Cancellation of all activities will probably be in effect for the next |
two weeks. Nothing tangible has been offered as yet.

BS

The intermediate basketball schedule is completely upset
and undergoing revision. The senior schedule has not suffered |
considerably and will function as previously arranged.
* ¥

Interfaculty sports have gotten underway with Henry Ross |
at the healm directing play. Medicine is highly favored to take
basketball and softball, and with their secret hockey practises
on the frog pond causing so much comment, high hopes exist
with the faculty that medicine will make a clean sweep in postChristmas interfaculty activities.

|

¥

 

 

——_—

DENTAL STUDENTS— .

$2

 

 

(Continued from Page One)

rip roarin’ old time minstrel. Music
is to be furnished by our leading city
orchestra which will also play for
the dance following immediately
after the show.

More news about the show will appear in future issues. Remember,
Dalhousians!—at last you are to get
some real honest to goodness entertainment.

  
     
      
 
   

a

 

 

What was the motive in hooking “
prominent dark-haired campus hero
for a bridge game the other night?

Fireworks guaranteed!

 

 

Chalet
Top

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

Men’s Ski Jackets

Made of windproof material,
Zipper front. Reg. $8.00 for

$5.95

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.
A Complete Stock of |

CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax |

  

Men’s Ski Slacks

Blue Melton Cloth $3.95
GAUVIN

AND

GENTZEL

Photographers to

DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing

Boys, and Girls, Skates
and Boots

All gizes to 5, pair $2 65

Men’s Skates and Boots
Sizes 6 to 10

Hockey Sticks
To clear... 29c¢ and 69c

Hockey Pants
Size 28 to 38, to clear .. ‘$1

35c

Pucks
Reg. 35c. 2 for

Halifax

PHONE B-8454

Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B-6992

  
  
 
  
 

  
 

000.00 W

Open Friday and Saturday Nights.

A BRIEF HISTORY—

(Continued from Page One)

January 31, 1936

 

A.C. Asks for Student Support

SODALES PLAN—

(Continued from Page One)

ton on the other. Associated with

tions, and give to the national char-|tpom will be the two outstanding

acter tone and direction.” .. .

politicians, partizans and speakers in

“The Dalhousie College Gazette is| Dalhousie — Wilkie Grant and John
to be conducted mainly by students. | Fisher.

undergraduates, and graduated of

the college.”
“The Explanatory”

first number of the

ties and disadvantages.

to be conducted.

personalities.
fairer” .
a helping hand in our design?”

contains the

following: ““‘We have issued this the
Gazette amid
much opposition and many difficulOpposition
has certainly not been against the
paper itself but against the mode in
which it has been prepared.” ....
“We will most willingly open our
columns to ANY expression of opinion of the merits or demerits of the
paper or the manner in which it is
We will insert all
articles sent to us on this subject
provided they are of a reasonable
length and are not characterized by
We can do nothing
. “Will you not lend us

 

CASINO

STARTING SATURDAY
FEBRUARY Ist

Barbara
STANWYCK
ANNIE OAKLEY
with
PRESTON FOSTER
SOON!
LAUREL AND HARDY

“BONNIE SCOTLAND” |

rer

orth of Ski Eq

 

Birks-
One of many items
is stationery—plain,
or with Fraternity
crest.

Inquire regarding
the advantage of a
group order.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

 

RAFAEL SABATINI’S

“CAPTAIN

BLOOD”

| with
ERROL FLYNN
OLIVIA DE HAVILAND
|

“Warner Bros. answer to
‘Mutiny on the Bounty’ .
Great! raves “‘TIME’.”

EXTRA! Walt Disney’s
‘COCK OF THE WALK’

 

ulipment

REDUCED!

 

Harness—
Style

Misses’ Ski Suits

English Velour Cloth, Red
and Brown.

Regular $16.50,

 

Misses’ Ski Suits

Glenwood Style
Brown.

and

 

Navy

Regular $8.50 .. ..

$5.95

 

HOCKEY OR SKATING
OUTFITS
SWEATER, STOCKINGS,

and TOQUE. All Colors
Regular $4.95 for $2

 

Boys Hockey Gloves
Made of Brown Glove Leather,
38 sizes. Regular $2.75 for

51.60

Men’s Hockey Gloves
23 Pairs. Values to $7.75 for

54.00

Shin Guards, Pads,
Goalers‘ Sticks, Ete.

All less 25% discount

Be in Style—join the Ski Club—the weather is right—
and here are the right prices:
Juvenile Skis—4 ft. Size—

Youths’ Skis, Dome Top—
with Toe Straps....79¢

5 and 6 ft.

$2.65

Ash or Hickory Skis—Full Dome Tops, sizes 6 to 714 ft.—
Values to $11.00 for

Go O'S Oo OOO: 22g. 6. e , eee

$4.85

Hagen Harness—
Light and Heavy Weight.

80c 2nd $1.25

   

  
       
   

Ski Boots

Black and Brown Chrome, all
sizer. Regular $4.59 for

$3.69

Ski Poles

Best Tonkin Caul Cane

95c *° $1.69
25% to 50% off Skates and Hockey Outfits

 

ardware & Pant (0,

LIMITED
397

PHONE B-8454

BARRINGTON STREET

 
