  
 
   

 

y

Nz

. la
ae
a

| Edition
=

pit

Debating Honor

 

Today

YOUUOUQUNINUVOLNSNUOUNSOSL LUND UAESN AEN

croen

  

y

~
et ae
ah -——
ee

| li

A HA}
3

  

  
      
 
 

 

 

 

VOL. LXVI.

—_—

 

 

TEAM FIGHTS

a a a Re

 

 

 

Dal Girls Win |
And Lose Games |
In Ground Hockey

Another victory for Dalhousie was

won on Saturday when the girls’
ground-hockey team went to Windsor and defeated Edgehill with a
4-0 score.
_ The girls put: plenty of the good
old fighting spirit into the game and
certainly made it thrilling spectacle.
The forward line, with its speedy
centre, Joan Furlong, played a fast
and well organized game. Only on
two occasions was Edgehill able to
break through the Dal defence, and
it didn’t take Marg Woolaver long to
send the bully far out of the danger
zone.. When Edgehill did get a
chance to shoot Marjorie Mader stopped them beautifully.

(Continued on Page Eight)

 

SMITH McIVOR

 

Duo Defends Dal’s

At Gymnasium

 

Dalhousie will have its first
major debate of 1935-36 next
Monday when Dalhousie will
meet the N. F. C. U. S. team
from Bishop’s—Western, Gordon

Smith and John Brossett. °

Against them will be Smith Says Empire F aces
Maclvor, Leader, and Irving os ‘

Selikoff. Disintegration

During the past few years, teams
of indifferent abilities have come
(Continued on Page Hight)

St. F. Xavier Are
Beaten By Dal

Smarting from their inglorious defeat at the hands of the Caledonians

 

Danger of the British Empire dis
tions cannot successfully impose
economic sanctions upon Italy was
the theme of the address given by
Prof. R. A. MacKay, Dalhousie political science professor, to a packed
audience which gathered at the first
of a series of open forums to be

 

 

integrating, if the League of Na- Running Broad Jump — Ross (A),

a fighting Dalhousie team took the
field against St. F. X. determined
to win or else... Playing heads up
football all the way the Dalhousians
forced the play during the whole
game and, with the exception of

held at the Y. M. C. A. this season.

Dr. H. L. Stewart, speaking at the
same meeting, gave as his opinion,
Mussolini—in his war upon Ethiopia, was seeking to restore lost
glory to a dictorate that was slip
Bad Trimming

ping.
Prof. MacKay raised the question

(Continued on Page Eight)

AILEEN MEAGHER IS
NAMED FOR AWARD

three or four dangerous three-quarter line runs engineered by Topshee,
(Continued on Page Eight)

ST
Aileen Meagher, Arts ’33, well- as a nominee for the singular honor
known in athletic circles, has been
chosen from the Maritime Provinces

as the outstanding woman athlete in
Canada for the past year.

Dalhousie is proud to count among
her Alumnae an athlete who has
captured a place on an Olympic
Track Team as well as several Canadian. Championships.

Aileen, entering Dalhousie in ’81,
asa Freshie-Junior, had no previous
record in the realm of sport. But
by’ her native ability and by the
careful guidance of Mr. W. E. Stirling in “leaps and strides” she reached the top of the ladder of athletic
fame.

Now her ability is in line to be
given recognition by all Canada, as
it has been appreciated and realized
by Dalhousie and Halifax in the past
few years.

 

7+

re mand / *

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 1, 1935

 

 

It’s time to go to town!

Dalhousians must knock out the jinx which has been
following the team since last season, must overcome the
injuries which have clogged the Gold-and-Black footballers.
must shake off the cloying spirit which has manifested
itself in the past four years, and make tomorrow a real
Dalhousie day.

Magonet Stars As
Meds Win Meet

Once again the Meds were =

And that is what is going to
happen if the grim determination
of a hard-fighting though unfortunate team is worth a dam. It
will happen if the small group of
Dalhousians who have been lending their support to the Tigers”
efforts this season will grow in
numbers and overwhelm their
more timid brethren, whose voices
and encouragement are needed
when the Tigers go out to vanquish the Axemen tomorrow.

Dal is going to town!

The lads from Wolfville threaten to be out in full strength, and
it looks like a hard battle for the
Tigers. Dal has not won a game
this year, but the memory of Caledonia will be forgotten, and the
unlucky bounce which helped the
Redman tie the game of two weeks
ago will be but a faint memory
when the Tigers grit their teeth
and go after the Wolfville men
tomorrow.

All that’s needed is just a few
more fighting calories on the part
of the team, and a few more kilii
 

shining lights in athletics on the
campus, as they left the other faculties far behind in the annual Interfaculty meet.
icine was high

Magonet of Med- |

individual scorer,

collecting in all 25 of medicine’s 42

points.
Individual feature winners were

the following:

60 Yard Dash—Epstein (M), Heisler (A), Dean (E). Time 63/5.

100 Yard Dash—Magonet (M), Ross
(A), Epstein (M). Time 10.1.

Javelin Throw—Magonet (M), Kinshen (D), Winters (A). Distance
126 ft. 2 inches.

Discus Throw—Magonet (M), DuBilier (M), Parker (A). Distance
96 feet.

Epstein (M), Martell (K).
tance 19 ft. 3% in.

220 Yard Dash—Magonet (M), Dean
(E), White (K). Time 22.9.
880 Yard Dash—DeWolfe (K), Rear
don (A). Time 23/5.
(Continued on Page Eight)

Dal Tigers Get

Dis
joules of sound energy from the
Dal stands and the Haligonians
will go over big tomorrow.

Skeleton Crowd
At Med Ball

The Med Ball is over!

One of the most enjoyable functions of its kind was held at the
Nova Scotian on Wednesday night,
and the enjoyability of the evening
was only cramped by the small attendance, there being about 60
dancers present.

(Continued on Page Hight)

Boot Aids One

 

 

 

In a one-sided exhibition game
played in Glace Bay on Thanksgiving
Day the speedy ‘and well-conditioned
Caledonia fifteen took the measure of
the Dalhousie Tigers to the tune of
28 - 0. Featured by fast line runs
and superb ball-handling, the Cape
Breton champions ran wild through

the Tigers scoring 16 points in the .
first frame and adding 12 more in Dalhousian
the second half. “Friends, Romans, countrymen

)

The Tigers, disorganized by the
absence of Buckley at five-eights
position were not “clicking” and
seemingly could do nothing right,
while their opponents on the other
hand, could do nothing wrong.

This was as far as one ambitious
young collegian got the other night
when he jumped on the stage of the
Theatre Arts Guild during a rehearsal of “As You Like It.”

 

(Continued on Page Eight) Ushers ushered him right out
again. It was a portion, ’tis said,

of an initiation into a fraternity, but
the assistance he received from a

heavy boot was not in the cards at
first.

Gazette Presents
Both Sides

The Dalhousie Gazette, taking as
usual its firm but impartial stand,
today presents in another section of

(Continued on Page Right)

     
 

Be Sure
To Read -
Something to Think About, page 2.

Life is That Way, page 4.

All the Alumni News, pages 3 & 5.

English as she is Never Taught,
page 6,

Priscilla, page 4.

Take Your Medicine, page 7.

   

 

 

 

First Debate

azeette

yo PPPS ae

 

 

Tigers Must Win
Tomorrow’s Game

Ne LLL tt,

vived at Dal this year appear tomorrow or will the Tigers battle the
Axemen unsupported by a horde of
cheering Dalhousians.
gotians are being put through to
have a special train for the Black- |
and-Gold collegians to take them to

— = 7 Seas 6 8 acs > bd el anes ee

  
    

onday

UHQUUUVUALOUONA000 0000000000000 USES

 

Be On The
Train

To Acadia

 

LUITINNGU0O0 ALAND AAAS AAD AN

LS,

No. 6

OR LIFE

 

 

   

    

 

Students Try For
Train Saturday

To Acadia Game)

Will enough Dalhousians be on
hand at Wolfville to cheer their
Gold and Black steam-roller when
it rolls down upon its traditional
enemies, the Acadia Axemen, tomorrow, in what promises to be
the finest game of the season?
That is the question which is being asked all over the campus, as
the eventful day draws near.

Do we have a train?
Will the spirit that has been re
 

 

IRVING SELIKOFF

 

Freshmen Show To
Be Huge Success

On Friday Night

On Friday night the Class of ’39
will attempt to show that after a
month of taking it on the chin they
can also dish it out.

 

Already ne
(Continued on Page Eight)

Students’ Council
Meets Sunday

THE FRESHMAN SHOW.
They will offer a varied program
that will be presented in a novel
fashion. Pat McDonald, Glee Club
favorite of two years ago, will be
lin the driver’s seat. The manner in
; yhich this show is being handle A meeting of the students’ Sonal i oe .
Council will be held on Sunday |, .. es PPS y
: . |erack his whip.
of this week, when the remain ; .

, The entertainment offers impersonder of the budgets will be looked ations; male, female and double
over. All those handling budgets |“ hi rape oe
are asked to co-operate and have
them in early,

 

 

(Continued on Page Hight)

 

 

Rumors of Big
Show Prevalent

Is a position on the Students’ Council
merely a post of honor? Is the election for this importance office merely
a popularity contest? Or is it not an
action of the students delegating

 

Rumor has it that Dalhousie’s
stage will be decorated some time

power to a smaller body, as trustees,
that all college activities, all student
moneys, be handled and spent in a
careful and serious fashion.

At the last meeting of the Council
five members were absent. A quorum
was barely formed. It is possible
that one or two had valid reason for

(Continued on Page Eight)

this year with one of the most ambitious presentations ever seen on
what is termed the best equipped
stage in the Maritimes.

Just what this “new” departure
will be seems to be a secret, but
some announcement on the
will be forthcoming
Gazette is informed.

matter
shortly, the

EX-SHIRREFF-HALLER

 

Editors of Dalhousie Gazette:

Dears Sirs:—In regard to one of
the head lines of last week’s Gazette may I say, as a graduate,
that any clique condition developing at Shirreff Hall need not be regarded as disastrous.

Of late years several restrictions
have been placed on the Seniors and
older girls at the Hall so that their
superiority must show in some way
and the formation of cliques is a
perfectly natural and normal way.

May I say to the Freshettes—
“Form you own cliques. Remember
that there is safety in numbers and

WRITES THE GAZETTE

if you form a group of your own
you will be much happier. She who
seeks admittance toa group of older girls ‘s shunned by all to a large
extent. If they want you to join
them they will seek you. The girls
who are now snobbing you were
snobbed themselves. Next year remember your previous discomforts
and lend a helping hand te Class
*A0.”’ i

Thanking you for your space and
congratulating you on your paper
to date,

I am,

An ex-Shirreff Haller.

 
  
  
      
    

a 4
u ty

rt

i

_

aes |

~f Fu
in
bat. : +

eee

‘.
a

ay A ed Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. S.

       
 

  
   
 

   

he a

F : “The Oldest College Paper in America”

ESI.

*.
4A
sib tt

i) nd oc 1869.

 
  

EDITORIAL STAFF

\ hee Editors

ny __N. GREEN IRVING PINK
ras 8445 . | B, 2442
Managing Editor
PHIL SARGEANT
f " H-298 - \
News Edito1 Assistants
| eee ponte | LEN KITZ, BILL SUTHERLAND
Society . Editor Literary Editor Sports Editor
a seer PURTILL ELISABETH BALLEM TED CREASE
Pe he Staff Artist B. 5737
| ee C. F. BENTLEY
Business Manager Assistant
J. R. H. SUTHERLAND DOUGLAS CREASE
p. B. 5487 B. 5787

 

~~

and student body as a group, during the term.

Alumni Section Edited by Graham Allan, Class ’27.
———:O-—-—_ Oe
GAZETTE MAKES HISTORY

_ This issue of the Dalhousie Gazette marks the passing of
another milestone in the history of the “oldest college paper in

;
;

America”. The present paper is the culmination of a long and

complicated set of arrangements between the official Alumni
publication “The Alumni News” and the “Gazette” Both of
these publications are now amalgamated under the present
arrangement. — ' ’ .

A new link has been forged in the chain which binds the
Dalhousianians of the past with those of the present and future.
The “Gazette” will publish under the new system three special
issues of the paper which will be specially devoted to the Alumni
It is hoped by
this means to acquaint the student body with the Alumni, and
the alumni with the Student body.

In the past, interest seems to have waned on the part of
both sides, it is hoped and expected that this idea of establishing a live mode of contact between the Alumni and the Student

body of the day at the University will revive a feeling of fellow
ship, a spirit of friendliness which will find fruit in the manifestation of a keener interest for the benefit of all concerned.

TO THE ALUMNAE AND ALUMNI

It is with no small degree of pleasure that we welcome this
collaboration of the ALUMNI NEWS with the GAZETTE. We

__ feel that a step in the forward direction had been made, for now

not only will the past students get a glimpse of what their

- former friends and classmates are doing but it will also be pos
sible to note the present trend of activity at Dalhousie. In the

fe past few years the Alumni have taken too little interest in
. ____ present affairs of their Alma Mater and we feel that this might

es

be

7
at

  

 
   
  

   

ae a

‘
{
>
ti,
}

.

iy

eho

: ae = MS é a BY
_ former graduates have had.
_. tinguished names that many of the Alumni now have made for

     
 

University days.

RATS s. be one method of bringing back that old spirit of cooperation
that formerly existed between Alumnus and Student.
_..__. Dalhousie can truly be proud of the records of the men and

‘omen who have passed through her portals. The present
student of Dalhousie looks with pride at the splendid careers

or We look with pride at the dis
  
 

themselves. We are proud to point out improvements in our
University buildings and equipment that have been made possible only through the kindness of former graduates. This latter
is a type of cooperation that is to be lauded and encouraged.

We recall however, that everyone cannot become rich, wellknown, or philanthropic. That is no reason why each and
everyone of you cannot at some time or other think of your
Remember the number of good times that
you spent dancing, at Glee Club, at Sodales, or even reading the
DAL GAZETTE. Then figure out some way in which you can
return to the place of the “good ol’ days” and pay us a visit. If
you live within the vicinity of the University join in and take
part in our affairs. Come to hear our debates come to see our
Glee Club shows; in short, make yourself a part of our
institution. Your mere presence or kind word will go far to
one Dalhousians proud of Dalhousie, and Dalhousie proud
of you.

May we also at this time thank the Alumni who have taken
an interest in the GAZETTE and who have allowed us to be the
first to partake of the honour of the collaboration of the
ALUMNI NEWS and The GAZETTE. We-hope that our readers
everywhere will be happy to receive the news of present Dalhousie along with present news of past Dalhousians. We invite
your criticism and comment. Help us to forge another link in
Dalhousie’s endless chain.

THE YEAR BOOK AGAIN

The question of whether or not Dal is going to have a Year
Book for 1936 is once again causing a great deal of attention
around the campus. Ever since the last “Pharos” appeared in
1931 the graduates have had to leave Dalhousie without any
really tangible record of their class. The Students’ Council
have seen fit to ban this publication, due to the fact that it has
been too great a drain on the treasury, the last issue going
‘many hundred dollars in the red.

Last year the Gazette was approached by a number of interested persons after the Christmas term, and it was then too
late to do anything about it, for the staff of any Year Book has
to begin working immediately after the new year begins. This
year, however, the problem is gaining prominence somewhat
earlier, and if anything is going to be done about it work must
begin almost immediately. There is no doubt that the problem

 

is purely one for the Council, and plans must be all submitted
_ to them before a conclusion can be reached.

2 It is the Council
that will be called upon to look after any deficits, and we feel
Sure that if the plans presented them would be at all feasible
they would consent to bear the brunt of a very small deficit.

_ In arguing the relative merits of whether or not we should
have a Year Book much can of course be said on both sides, but
if a plan can be formulated whereby such a feature can be
‘made to almost pay for itself there is no doubt but what we
‘should answer the question in the affirmative. If fifty per cent

student body would co-operate and guarantee to buy

_--——s eopies, then there is no doubt but that a Year Book could pay
____ its way. Once again a solution lies in the hands of the student
body. Get behind the “Pharos” idea, promise your support,

__- and we can assure you that 1936 will not pass without seeing

   

rival of the Year Book.

SSS Ss sss

een

SLID DMUINLN NAUSEA
STM mM c=

And jazz returns to the radio.
Even such music hath charms to
soothe my savage breast. The poignant note of the saxaphone and the
plaintive melody of the traps breathe
comfort and peace into my tired and
wornout soul. There is magic in the
air. All things have their effect by
contrast. Why then should I not
rejoice in the restful blare of the
trumpet after a month of pre-election campaigning has been forced
upon my ears?

 

Whither has disappeared the sense
of humour of Canadians? Surely
the picture of hundreds and thousands of citizens stumping up and
down and across this fair land, seeking with heart-rending sincerity and
loud-voiced declamation to convince
the populace that their own particular label will, if placed upon the
bottle, make the medicine more effective, is a sight to make strong
men weep. To a man, this mighty
army was serious and grave, stern
and prepared to face the realities of
the situation. Was there, in some
remote hamlet hidden among the
groves of brilliant maple or of fragrant pine, a village orator who retained the old-time skill to sway his
little audience with pleasant truth
pleasantly set forth. I fear not.
Gone are the days, if ever they were
with us, when human mind with human mind joined in thoughtful yet
in happy union to consider the problems of our country. Stand to one
side, and gaze upon the scene, have
a hearty laugh at how you also have
taken yourself too seriously, and
afterward go your way and be thus
no more. Canadians, if their speech
be a true indication, are a sombre,
serious folk, whose only inclination
is to prosper and to die.

 

Much may be and has been said in
praise of the pioneer. In this country he built well and established
firmly sound and noble institutions.
For the many benefits which he has
conferred upon us in our generation
let us pay him due honor. Nevertheless, let us realize too that he
had one great lack, in which regard
we need not follow him: where was
his sense of humour? Undoubtedly
his circumstances and environment
as he pursued the fierce primary
struggle for existence were not conducive to the development of humour. The treading of the globe at
twilight, the building of huge barns
and storehouses, the gathering of the
glittering hordes of fish from ocean’s
depths, the drawing of tall timber
from the snow-filled woods, had
poetry, romance, and drama in them,
but not the vital spark whence comes
true humour. In sights like these
the pioneer saw nought but the
working of divinity, sad-faced and
stern, ready to yield the laborer the
just reward for his toil. No more
saw he than that, more is the pity.
Tradition dies hard. That which the
pioneer has set as the characteristic
and sign of our profession we endeavor both consciously and unwittingly to maintain. We have no
humour,

 

Wit? Yes, and a thousandfold too
much, our only straw to which we
cling like drowning men to save us
from ourselves ere we are overwhelmed in the deep of our own
ponderosity. By means of some surprising turn of words or ideas, in a
well-intentioned effort to make our
speech somewhat the lighter, in
search of some new way in which to
return with added impetus the opponent’s battledore, wit triumphs
among us. Why must audience after
audience be bored to desperation and
rebellion by speakers with an excess
of wit, falsely considered “Humour” ?
Humour is almost entirely absent
from our speech, especially from the
speech of college students. When
addressing an audience, students almost without exception rely on an
appeal to the intellect, and no appeal
is made to the sympathy of the audience. Which, candidly, will be the
more effective? There is not let-up
in the pounding tirade; in closed
march moves the wordy column of
facts marshalled in proud array for
the great occasion, ready to do battle against all comers.

“Their’s not to reason why,

Their’s but to do and die:

|

 

SSS SSS SSS sss sss ess
=

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

The Mud-Slinger

 

This first episode of mud-slinging
is respectively dedicated to whatever
students, if any such there are, who
are energetic enough and intelligent
enough to bother reading the inside
pages of the Gazette. We hope to
find a sufficient number of things we
don’t like around this campus to fill
this column for a few weeks; we
hope we are not too optimistic. Our
hope is to awaken a few students out
of their characteristic lethargy,, and
to make them realize that, although
Dalhousie has far surpassed all other
universities on this hemisphere, it is
far from being the acme of educational excellence, and that the millenium has not yet arrived.

One of our pet hates is the downat-the-heel louse who gripes about
every campus organization, telling
just what in his nit-wit opinion is
the proper way to run things, although, content to revel in his own
slime, he has neither the ability nor
the desire to do anything constructive himself. No matter what activity
it is—Gazette, Council, D.A.A.C.,
Glee Club, etc.—he can’t see anything good about it. To hear him
speak one would think him a Hercules of energy and a Socrates of
wisdom; in reality, he is nothing but
a useless jackass impeding the efforts of the go-getters on the
campus. No matter where you go
you see them—gym, reading-rooms,
Law and Medicine corridors, the Mud
Slinger saw a group of the breed
in the book-store the other day—it
was a disgusting sight. A typical
example is one student who had the

privilege of attending an Upper!
Canadian university for a few years, |

and can see nothing good at Dalhousie—but he does nothing about it.
If you are one of the species, or are
tinged, however slightly with its
earmarks, wake up and shake yourself out of it before it is too late; if
you are not, see that these knownothings keep their mouths shut and
remain in the gutter where they belong.

Another group around the campus
to which we don’t offer sneers and
virulence, but commiseration and
pity is the weaker sex. How they
can take it! Our tigresses seem to
have no more feline instincts than
the sleepiest tabby. For some weeks
they have been slammed and knocked in the columns of the Gazette, but
they accept it all apparently with
placid resignation. We had thought
that Dal had improved somewhat in

 

Into the valley of Death
Rode the six hundred.”
And the six hundred were all evenly
divided into paragraphs, each of
which dinned on unwilling ears its
“point”.

“Students to right of them,
Students to left of them,
Students in front of them

Volley’d and thunder’d.”

How peaceful and soothing to an
audience would be one kind comfortable word, one illustration drawn
from everyday life and human nature, one apt observation upon life
as it is outside the academic lore of
schoolmasters! The leisurely ambling gait of quiet humour has more
effect than all the high pressure
salesmanship of salient wit. After
the witticisms and intellectual sallies
have disappeared, long there linger
memories of moments spent in pleasant thought led through the labyrinth of argument by the hand of
humour, gentle, quiet, mild.

Great men there have been in these
very Maritime Provinces whose
sense of humour led them on to ever
greater heights. Their names I need
not mention, for each stood out
above the common mass of people as
a beacon on a lonely hill, the light
revealing all the depth of darkness
round about. Until such time as we
can proudly point to our tradition
and say without fear of contradiction: “There is our fine trait of
characteristic humour”; so long shall
we be lacking in the fulfilment of
that goodly heritage which ought to
be ours. Time was when opportunity
lacked. No longer have we such a
plea. The men surely are not lacking who will seek to break themselves of habit early-formed and still
persistent, in order to fit themselves
for the future when they in their
turn shall stand upon the public
platform to bore or to entrance. The
task is no easy one, but nothing
worthwhile is =ver easy. On that

(Continued on Page Eight)

  

 

SSS sss sss
:

Friday, November 1, 1935

SOMETHING TO

THINK ABOUT

Next month the British “preset

 

internes reply that this is not so;
that the cases from which they
would learn the most and gain the
most practical experience are reserved to the resident student who
is specializing. The New York Commissioner for Hospitals later recommended that the internes be paid
$3.46 a week. If the Dalhousie internes organized they might be able
to do something to remedy the situation in the Maritimes.

will take place. With the present
government backing the League of
Nations, no better time could have
been chosen by Baldwin. In_ the
Peace Ballot recently held, eleven
million potential voters declared
themselves to be in favor of supporting the League. The Labor
Party is the official Opposition; but
the labor unions came out solidly in
favor of sanctions. On this question
the Labor Party split, since in theory it believes that war is caused by
imperialistic and capitalistic forces,
to the detriment of labor. With the
opposition in two camps and the
policies of the government in accord
with public opinion, Baldwin seems
likely to be returned.

 

The Community Chest has begun
its annual drive for funds. It was
formed to prevent the waste and inefficiency arising from the lack of
co-operation between the various
and unorganized charities which existed before its establishment. This
was a prudent and _ business-like
move, but has it been successful?
Direct appeals from the various
charities are still made. Every Saturday is a tag-day, when the pedestrian must purchase the right to
walk the city streets unmolested.
Far worse, however, than the annoyance and inconvenience caused to
the individual by this situation is the
doubt it throws on the efficiency

 

The city press has seen fit to accuse the Gazette of inconsistency. If
the allegation is true the Gazette is
to be praised for emulating, in its
own small way, the example set by
its criticizers. How these latter preen
themselves upon their summer camps
where the offspring of the slums are
given a chance to enjoy two weeks
of air and sun. These papers, with

 

a fine feeling unusual in them for|and methods of the Community
their sensibilities of their readers, | Chest.

restrain the other side of the story; —

how urchins of five and six are sent Now that the tumult and the

by them to cry the glories of their
miserable wares until nine and ten
o’clock in the evening, making the
night hideous with their importunities, and incidentally ruining their
health and morals over which our
press professes such concern.

Shouting have died and Mr. King
has taken over the reins of government, what does an analysis of the
situation show? On the facts the
Liberals enjoyed their greatest victory since Confederation. Supposedly
they received an overwhelming mandate from the people. But was this
so? True the Liberals hold about
65% of the seats, but actually they
received only 45% of the votes cast.
This leaves 20% of the voters unrepresented or rather, misrepresented, for they are represented by men
course during which he receives no| against whose policies they voted. So
pay. To the argument that he is|much for representative government
receiving valuable experience the! and democracy.

 

The New York Association of Internes recently held a conference at
which the internes aired their grievances.

The medical student, they said,
must undergo a long and expensive

the last few years. A few years
ago the letters of Egbert and the
Aspiring President of the AntiFeminist League aroused much more
response. What protest the girls
did make was made on the front
page of the Mail, to be sent across
Canada—and now they say that they
thought the Mail reporter was one
of the Gazette newshounds. Or is it
Supercilious scorn that they are
handing us—if so, why don’t they
come out and try to improve the college rag a bit with their contributions? Oh, well, I suppose the girls
haven’t time, since they came to college only to have a good time.

What has happened to the Students’ Directory ? We had understood
that it was to be united with the
Freshman Handbook, but apparently

we were mistaken. To date there
has been no sign of it. Last year
the publication of these valuable little booklets was taken over by the
Council, presumedly that our interests might be better served. Apparently however, the usual inefficiency
reigns supreme; if there is any
reasonable explanation, we haven’t
seen it. The Directory was, in the
past, incomparably more useful than
the Handbook, which is looked at
once and then tossed in the scrapbasket. Why could not those pages
of the Handbook which were used
for some sort of a useless diary or
calendar of blank pages have been
used for a directory? Or were the
editors too lazy? No man is perfect

—not even the editors of the Handbook.

 

PARTY TIME IS HERE

Formal Evening

Wear 
To be in the social swim one must have a dinner jacket
or a suit of tails. We are featuring a smartly tailored
Tuxedo Suit with Silk Vest at $25.00, complete.

Others at $30.00 and $35.00. Accessories to match at
the same reasonable prices.

See the new black Hamburg’s Hat for evening
wear as featured by Esquire.

SHANE’S

MEN'S SHOP

THIRTY SPRING GARDEN ROAD

DISCOUNT OF 10% TO DALHOUSIE STUDENTS

 

 
 

 

Pe
ee
:

is
ar
I
|
i
h
|

1 Rates
a>
a
e.
‘

.

 

 

- DALHOUSIE PROMINENT

IN PUBLIC

 

LIFE; FOUR

“IN MR. KING’S CABINET

Recent Gifts To
Dalhousie

Recently the University received word that the late Margaret F. Trueman (nee Margaret
F. Newcombe, B.A. °85), of Berwick, N. S., had bequeathed $1,000
to Dalhousie. Mrs. Trueman was
one of the first women to graduate from the University.

Dr. William Inglis Morse, the
donor of the “Morse Collection”
of books, maps, historical documents, etc., has recently given the
University $3,750 in cash for
yarious specified purposes. Graduates visiting their Alma Mater
should not fail to see the very
notable “Morse Collelction”.

Imaginary
Meeting of
Class of ’27

Greetings!
The meeting will now come to

order while the President, “Mugs”
Fraser, explains that this special

meeting has been called to consider two items of particularly

urgent business. Please follow
carefully as the Secretary, Miinna
Troop Shearson, reads the first
item on the agenda.

Secretary: Under the head of unfinished business, your executive
calls to your attention a resolution
passed in the spring of 1927, by
which Class ’27 committed itself to
raising a fund of $600.00 to be applied to a class gift to the University. This gift was to take the form
of a memorial window to be presented jointly with Class ’28. Subsequent expressions of opinion from
class members have caused your
executive to drop the original plan
and to consider a gift of a more useful nature, from our class alone.

President: Perhaps we might hear
from Art Jubien, Chairman of the
Class Gift Fund, just what progress
has been made with this fund.

Art Jubien: Mr. President, to date
our fund shows contributions of
$329.00. Your committee feels that
the balance of nearly three hundred
dollars is but a small sum to ask
from a class like ’27.

“Bub McKinnon: May I ask what
form of gift is now proposed?

Art Jubien: That matter is now
under consideration by your executive and this committee. Suggestions
are being collected from the University authorities and other individuals. The nature and value of the
gift will naturally depend on the response from all of you members. We
feel that it should be on befitting a
class of our size and loyalty.

Henry Bell: I move that a letter
be sent by the executive to each
and every member of our class urging their loyal co-operation and
support. This letter should show
the amount already contributed by
that member and request the immediate payment of any further
subscriptions desired.

Tom Coffin: As Mr. Bell is now in

a ~ Montreal with Mr. Jubien, I move

that he be asked to assist in receiving contributions.

Harry Bell: I shall be glad to
sont Just ask in your letter that

sy (Continued on Page Five)

 

|kKenzie King,
'|Minister, is not a Dalhousian, the

 

Dalhousians played a prominent
part in the recent Dominion elections
and a list of the’ successful candidates indicates that the university
will be represented in Canada’s next
Parliament. From coast to coast
Dalhousians contested the elections
as candidates and many other Dalhousians were active in executing
the various details of the campaign.

The Prime Minister of the government which went to the country, the
Rt.. Hon. R. B. Bennett, is himself a
Dalhousian (LL.B. 1893, LL.D. 1919),
Mr. Bennett has always maintained
his keen interest in his alma mater
and has spoken at university functions on several occasions. Although
his government was defeated, he
won a personal victory in his constituency, Calgary West.

Secretary of State in his Cabinet
was another Dalhousian, the Hon.
C. H. Cahan (B.A. 1886, LL.B. 1890,
LLD, 1919). Mr. Cahan was also reelected. His constituency is Mon
treal-St.Lawrence-St. George.
Although the Rt. Hon. W. L. MacCanada’s new Prime

Minister of Labor in the new Liberal
administration is Prof. Norman McLeod Rogers (Law, 1917-1918).

Professor Rogers is an intimate
friend of the prime minister’s.
Thus, although not a Dalhousian,
Mr. King has the counsel of a son
of what alumni modestly term
“Canada’s greatest university.”

Professor Rogers will be ably
supported by three other Dalhousians in the cabinet. The Hon. J.
L. Ilsley (LL.B. 1916), member for
Digby-Annapolis-Kings, is minister
of national revenue; the Hon. J. E.
Michaud (LL.B. 1913), member for
Restigouche-Madawaska, is minister
of fisheries; and the Hon. C. D.
Howe, member for Port Arthur, is
minister of the merged portfolios
of marine and railway and canals.
The Hon. Mr. Howe was professor
of engineering at Dalhousie fron:
1910 to 1914. He was associated
with the construction of the Science
Building.

Other Dalhousians who were elected include: D. A. Cameron, Cape
Breton-North Victoria (LI1.B. 1893),
Dr. D. J. Hartigan, Cape Breton
South (M.D.C.M. 1911; R. E. Finn,
Halifax (LL.B. 1898); Donald MacLennan, Inverness-Richmond (LL.B.
1905); L.. B. A. Robichaud, Kent
(LL.B. 1915), and Dr. Alexander
McGillivray Young, Saskatoon City
(B.A. 1903).

(After writing the foregoing, we
received in the mails, from an addent alumnus in New Glasgow, who
follows closely all things Dalhousian, a general list of Dalhousie
graduates who were candidates not
only in the federal election but in
the reeent provincial elections in
New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, and Alberta, Omitting from
his list the names already mentioned above, we publish his list of

Dalhousians in political activity
herewith.—Ed. )
(P.S.—His comment: Reading

the list (below) can anyone doubt
that the Weldon tradition at the law
school is being maintained?)

 

Nova Scotia.

Hon. W. A. Ernst, LL.B, ’19-’20.
Vineent J. Pothier, LL.B. ’20.
Rene Wilfrid Landry, LL.B.B. 710
W. B. Armstrong, LL.B. 708.
Finlay MacDonald, LL.B. ’99.

B. E. LeBlanc, M.D.C.M, ’07.
Rev. Perley C. Lewis, B.A. ’20.
R. D. C. Stewart, LL.B, ’81.

D. M. Cochrane, M.D.C.M. ’28.

On

| —_— ee SSS sss tsetse ee Sy SS

A Word of Greeting

I congratulate the editors of
the Gazette on their plan to issue special numbers of interest
to graduates. It was considered unfortunate that the Alumni
News was discontinued. It is
conceivable, however, that special issues of the undergraduate
publication, :addressed to the
Alumni, may be more interesting than was the old publication. The new plan in a way
brings back the graduates to
the campus and gives them
some idea of the present life
of the college as well as news
about themselves. I have long
thought that the Dalhousie
Gazette is the best undergraduate weekly publication I know.)

I take this opportunity of
expressing to all our graduates
my cordial greetings. Many of
your graduate societies, in Toronto, Ottawa, Boston, New
York, Sussex, St. John’s, Newfoundland, Halifax, and many
groups of graduates in other
places in Canada and abroad
have most hospitably entertained me, and in many ways

UE EEE

 

President of Dalhousie University.
have shown their continued interest in the University.
are one family, with a common
interest in a great cause.
CARLETON STANLEY,

President.

 

NOT AN EDITORIAL

With this issue of the Dalhousie Gazette we present two pages
devoted to alumni news which it is hoped will prove of interest, not
only to members of the alumni, but to the undergraduates as well.
The plan is to take a page or two in the Gazette at regular intervals
instead of publishing the Alumni News as a separate pericdical.
Whether or not the experiment succeeds depends principally on you.

With the co-operation of interested Dalhousians, it will be possible to publish bright newsy pages of general appeal to all those
who have pleasant memories of the University. Particularly do we

want to hear from Dalhousians outside of Halifax.

In many places

these emigres have banded together in Dalhousie societies and their
activities are of interest to all other Dalhousians. This is a general

invitation to all such societies to contribute news notes.

Let us

know you are doing in your society. The notes in this issue from
the New York association offer an example of what can be done.
Individual Dalhousians, too, are heartily invited to send in con
tributions.

it be of interest to Dalhousians.

There are no annoying conditions.
prose, poetry, vers libre—anything you choose.

You may contribute
All we ask is that

 

DALHOUSIE PROFESSOR
RECEIVES HIGH HONOR

Dr. E. W. H. Cruickshank, professor of Physiology since 1928, has
been appointed Regius Professor of
Physiology in Aberdeen University.

Appointments to the regius chairs
in British Universities are made by
the crown and the honour’s a mark
of recognition to Dr. Cruickshank’s
wirld-wide reputation as a teacher
and scientific investigator. Author
of three books and scores of articles he is considered an authority
in learned circles.

Dr. Cruickshank is a graduate
with honors in medicine of Aberdeen. In post-graduate work he
won a D.S.C. in London, Ph.D. in

 

Prince Edward Island.

Hon. Thane Campbell, B.A.
M.A. 17.

New Brunswick.
Hon: L. P. D. Tulley, LL.B. ’93.

15
Hon. A, A. Dysart, LL.B. 712.
Hon. R. B. Hanson, LL.B. ’01.
Frances L. Fish, LL.B. ’18.

W.-W. Foster, LL.B. ’33.

Hon. C. T. Richards, LL.B. 718.
John A. Creaghan, LL.B. ’14.
D. V. White, LL.B. 19.

R. W. L. Erle, M.D.C.M. 03.

Quebec.
Leslie G. Bell, LL.B. 715.
Saskatchewan.
J. A. McMillan, LL.B. ’15.
Alberta.

Joseph Patrick McIsaac, LL.B. ’11
Hon. John W. Hugill, L. ’09-’11.
British Columbia.

Gerald G. McGeer, LL.B. ’

 

Cambridge, the M.R.C.P. (London)
in 1926, and the F.R.S. (Edinburgh)
in 1929.

Upon graduation in 1912, he
spent three years with Ernset H.
Starling. During the war Dr.
Cruickshank joined the 9th division
and served five years in France
with the Royal Army Medical Corps,
Following the duties as Regimental
Medical Officer he was asked by the
Rockefeller Foundation to build up
a physiology department in Peking.
Upon Starling’s recommendation he
aceepted, spending six months visiting the larger medical schools before taking up his duties. He
returned four years later as Research Fellow of the Rockefeller
Foundation in Cambridge and
Heidelberg. In 1926 he traveled to
the seditious province of Patna,
India, where, with the lavish sums
provided by tthe government, he
designed and equipped complete
Biochemical and Physiological buildings.

At Aberdeen, Dr. Cruickshank
succeeds Dr. J. J. R. MacLeod as
regius professor of Physiology.

The students who were fortunate
to sit under Dr. Cruickshank will
remember him for the acuteness of
intellect and the simplicity and excellence of his manners.

Dr. Cruickshank will probably
leave on or about December 28th,
to take up his new work on January 14th, 1936.

We extend sincere congratulations
and good luck,

[ese Sg ey ae ae 7 Fa

 

CUUTUULOVEUUUUEUOUEUCUSNU0VUU LAUTAN

Alumni

Section

UTUTUTHILILLILULUL GULL ULLL UL GL SLALOLEL LLU 0

 

 

_ MONSTER REUNION IS PLANNED FOR 1936

ALUMNI EXECUTIVE IS
ALREADY ACTIVE WITH

PLANS FOR

GATHERING

Under the able leadership of President S. R. Balcom,
the executive of the Dalhousie Alumni and Alumnae have
been busy during recent weeks with plans for a monster
Dalhousie reunion to be held in the latter part of August,
1936. Activity has been mainly confined to spade work, up
to the present, but the sod has been well turned, alumni
officers report, and many committees are already engaged
in planning the details for the gathering.

FAVOR EARLY START.

At recent meetings it has been
agreed, without dissension, that
preparation should begin as early
as possible so that nothing would be
left undone to make the 1936 re
 

Enrolment
Has Increase

This Year

The Dalhousie registration shows
an increase this year in each of the
Faculties, Arts and Science, Law,
Medicine, Dentistry. At this same
time last year registration stood at
eight hundred and twelve, exclusive
of those students at Mount Saint
Vincent who take lectures under
professors from Dalhousie University. This year the figures of
Mount Saint Vincent students are
not known, but exclusive of them
the registration at the present time
is eight hundred and fifty. In both
years the figures given include the
number of students registered at
King’s College, and as there is a
considerable decrease in the attendance at King’s this year, this means
that the number attending Dalhousie, in the narrower sense of the
word, shows a still further increase.

There is also a notable increase
in the number of students registered in the University for the first
time. Last year these amounted to
about two hundred and thwentythree; this year the number is over
two hundred and fifty.

Class ’33 Presents
Practical Gift

 

 

Absent Dalhousians will be interested to learn that Class ’33 has presented to the University as a class
memorial an unusual but practical
gift in the form of a concrete walk
running from the Arts Building to
the Gymnasium. This is one of the
main thoroughfares on the campus
over which daily hundreds of students pass, until now a cinder path

(Continued on Page Eight) _

Dr. Woodbury Is
Dental Dean

Dr. W. W. Woodbury has been appointed dean of the faculty of dentistry in succession to the late Dr.
G. K, Thomson.
of the Halifax Academy and Dalhousie University, where he obtained the degree of B. Sc. Later he
pursued his course in dentistry at
the Philadelphia dental college. He
returned to Halifax just when the
dental school was being formed and
was one of its first demonstrators.
Since its inception he has served
the faculty faithfully and well. He

 

 

union the greatest convention of
Dalhousians old and new that “The
Little College” has ever known.

Although the plan, it is emphasized, is still in its infancy, the response has been amazing and the
alumni executive are enthused with
the prospects for staging a reunion
that will eclipse anything of the sort
ever attempted in the past.

Class ’27, as will be noticed in another column, is determined to answer the roll call with a large turnout of its members; other classes, it
is understood, will be campaigning
through the winter months to rally
attendance of their members in an
effort to exceed the record of the
graduates of ’27.

IN NEW YORK.

From New York comes word that
Dalhousians in the metropolis are
talking about the reunion and shaping their vacation plans for next
summer to include this organized return to the campus at Studley and
the Forrest Building.

Close-mouths officials of the tlumni executive refused to divulge details of the proposed reunion program in time for this issue, but have
promised to relent before the next
Alumni section of the Gazette appears. At that time, it is expected,
some of the plans will be announced
and graduates will have an opportunity to learn why the executive
hope to make the reunion different
from any ever held by Dalhousie and
superior to all earlier efforts.

The executive of the Alumni Association, who will welcome your
suggestions, is as follows:

 

EXECUTIVE OF DALHOUSIE
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

President—S. R. Balcom, MeLeod &
Balcom, Ltd., Spring Garden Rd.
and Robie St., Halifax, N. S.

Ist Vice-President —J. W. Godfrey,
Canadian Savings & Loan Bldg.,
Granville St., Halifax, N. 8S.

2nd Vice-President—Donald McInnes,
c/o McInnes, Lovett & McDenald,
35 Bedford Row, Halifax, N. S.

Governors—

John §. Roper, Capitol Theatre
Building, Halifax, N. S.

Major J. W. Logan, 70 Morris St.,
Halifax, N. S

Dr. Kenneth A. MacKenzie, 89
Spring Garden Rd., Halifax, N.S.

Ronald M. Fielding, Russell &
Fielding, 435 Barrington Street,
Halifax, N. S.

Dr. E. K. Maclellan, 158 South
Street, Halifax, N. S.
Osborne Crowell, Crowell

Ltd., Halifax, N. S.

Bros.,

He is a graduate | Executive—

Murray Rankin, 22 Coburg Road,
Halifax, N. S.

R. E. Inglis, Court House, Halifax,
H. S.

Dr. Gerald Burns, 81 South Park
Street, Halifax, N. S.

Gordon Graham, 416 Roy Building,
Halifax, N. S.

T. H. Coffin, c/o W. L. Payzant,
Hollis St., Halifax, N. S.

become professor of orthodintia in| Gerald Redmond, Department of Ed
1910, a subject in which he is an
acknowledged authority. He has
kept in close touch with dental edu
ucation, Halifax, N. S.
Dr. George K. Macintosh, 81 Coburg Road, Halifax, N. S.

cation both in the United States and! Secty.-Treas.—H. Gerald Stairs, c/o

in England. Dr. Woodbury became
president of the dental board of
Nova Scotia in 1932.

Bi

Nova Scotia Light & Power Co.,
Ltd., or 2 Waterloo St., Halifax,
N.S:

 
  
 

 

hos Sag

(F.

There was a dreariness in the atmosphere of the cold morning air
that denoted a day to be set aside
for reminiscences of the living past.
So thought Manuel Barras as he
trudged slowly onwards through the
throngs of early job seekers and
those belonging to a more fortunate
clan, the laborers. This morning,
particularly, the lines in Manuel’s
face seemed grooved more deeply,
his head bowed in worried thought.

How fortunate were they, this mub
of dull, lifeless souls, Manuel’s
thoughts were rising. Here was he,
a full fledged engineer, graduated,
cum laude from one of Spain’s finest

- universities, a paltry ditch-digger.

His hands were now cracked and
calloused from the tools of his livelihood, the heavy handles of the
pickaxe and spade. And the humiliation of it all—to be working on an

i) engineering project. How often, to

keep up his courage, had he remarked to Margaret, with a smile,
that he was certainly starting life
in the right way—working from the
bottom up.

Manuel’s face was now lighting
up, his features softening. Margaret always affected him that way.
Ever since he had fallen in love
with the little American girl whom
he thought to have dropped from
hheaven when he first met her in his
‘iz 4 wy own native land, he had been able
> to think of nothing else. After they
ss were bound in matrimony, he went
back to her America because she
was not happy in his small hacienda
ss that: overlooked the sea.
eter, At first the people had been so
_——_- gtrange to his little wife, for whom
_ there was no sacrifice he would not

make. She had borne him a male
Bs: _ child, and his pride in his boy far
ss excelled the disappointment upon
Yearning that his baby was to be a
; of cripple. throughout life. They had
been lifted into the realms of happiness for such a brief span of
time, that, to Manuel, it remained
only as a dream—a tiny spark
which had ignited the fires of his
ambitions and had then flickered
out.

The small inheritance left to him
by his father had lasted but a short
time, as did his high hopes of securing a position on a government
engineering statf. He began to understand the despair of a suffering

- humanity—the cry for work and
bread. His knowledge, beyond engineering, had been limited and his
skilful hands, designed for the building of dams and bridges, had to be
content with digging ditches.

Fate, not satisfied with the
destruction it had already wrought
upon him, dealt Manuel his severest
blow when he found himself under
the employ of Grisholm—Grisholm,
the cruel boss of the engineering
project, the crooked politician whose
leering smile denoted the way in
which tremendous power had affect
Manuel’s face was burning now
and his heart quickening. Clencing
his fists, he tried hard to control
the wave of hatred that was surging throughout his entire body.
Thoughts of how Grisholm had
taunted him by referring time and
again to the fact that with his high
engineering degree, he was fit for
nothing more than digging ditches
—unbearable at times had been the
taunts.

Meekly he had swallowed Grisholm’s insults because his wife and

child could not survive without food.
pa 3 Besides, jobs were scarce.
| Manuel stopped short to discover
that he was attracting the attention
a of the staring passers-by, for his
_ ‘thoughts had given way to actual
-——s Joud)smutterings. He hurried his
_-—s- footsteps and soon found himself
__-with pickaxe and shovel, ready for
ast He had not worked long before he
spied Grisholm coming towards him.
_ Manuel stopped to suit in his direc
on, so great was his hatred for

i

¥
\

Sa

 

“<
‘

in.

=
=
2

"

I
f t <

mi
i

   
  

4

athe a

H
4
i]
t

gare

 

“LIFE 1S THAT WAY

 

By The Gazette’s Short Story Writer

D.)

RS

this man who was not a man but a

monster.

“Barras!” There was no mistaking the harsh voice of Grisholm.
“Come here!”

Instintictively, Manuel scurried
out of the ditch and stood face to
face with that leering smile.

“Barras, you’re no longer needed
here.” It was that cruel, cold voice
speaking again. “You can leave
now. Get your pay envelope at the
office.

Manuel stood dazed. “But my
wife—” he started to say. But Grisholm had already turned and was on
his way towards the construction
building.

_ “Td like to kill you,” Manuel heard
himself yelling in a fit of frenzy.

Grisholm stopped in his tracks
and turned around. “I’ll be home tonight, at your disposal,” he remarked, and smiled.

With a weary heart and burdened
mind, Manuel started back towards
his home. The thought of facing
Margaret was too much for him,
while Grisholm became a gruesome
nightmare to him. All day he walked the streets, along the wharves,
not daring to go home to Margaret.
All the while he was fighting down
the impulse to kill Grisholm.

It was dark when he turned his

footsteps in the direction of the
home of Grisholm. Upon reaching
the house, he was surprised to find
the front door wide open and a light
in the hall. Through a window he
could see Grisholm seated at a table
in a corner of the room. Manuel had
no gun, but in his hand he held an
iron pipe which he had found in the
street. }
_ Stealthily he entered the house
and stepped into the room, to find
himself face to face with Grisholm
and that smile of his. Strangely
enough, the smile did not possess
the leer so characteristic of the man
before him.

Instintively, Manuel rushed at the
man and with a single blow sent him
staggering to the floor. But Grisholm managed to mutter a “Thanks,
old man,” as he fell.

Manuel stood dazed, but only for
an instant. Thoughts once more began rushing through his mind.

“My God,” he muttered, “I can’t
let him die. He wanted me to kill
him.” Swiftly the significance of
everything came to him—that nonchalant remark of Grisholm’s when
he threatened to kill him, the open
door which gave him such easy access to his victim. Lastly, the smile
on Grisholm’s face and the words of
thanks he uttered as he fell—as if
Manuel Barras was doing him a
favor by killing him.

So that was it, Manuel’s mind
racing. He wanted to die, but
couldn’t do it by his own hand, so
he had aroused the enmity of a
sharply-tempered, sensitive Spaniard
—the coward! But there was no
time to lose; he must do something
immediately.

In a maddened frenzy he reached
for the phone and rang police headquarters.

“I’ve injured a man,” he yelled
into the phone. “Hurry, he must
not die.” |

Hanging up the receiver, he lifted
the unconscious man and placed him
on the sofa, making him as comfortable as possible. He had not
given the police any address, for he
knew they would trace the call. This
bit of strategy, he thought, would
give him time to vanish before the
police and ambulance arrived.

Snatching up the iron pipe from
the floor, he ran into the hall and
from there walked out into the cold
night air. With his first breath of
air, he heaved a sigh of freedom
and started in the direction of his
home.

From then on Manuel was dazed
beyond reality. Dimly, he could
visualize a court trial with a grim
judge making a long speech, unin
(Continued on Page Seven)

LLL

On ssssooaaa0I_i«———Gh95 Ww«wSII_ IC iS aa

        

aes eet oa a
ih eo eS
Eee ae 7 yt
batmaae <
fees

7
: a %
Nats, x

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
  
  
     
   

    
 

}

NTIS,

  

REALTY

It seems but a day

Since I saw you.

Or was it you,

Standing there on the hillside
By the white birches, laughing;
The wind tossing your curls
Golden in the spring sunlight?
It was you.

I can see you now,

As plain as yesterday,

Or was it yesterday

That you laughed at life,

Stretching forth your young arms

High flung in the balmy breeze,

Gasping from sheer joy of being
there?

It was yesterday.

Ah yes, dear one,

I can still see you,

Or is but a fancy?

For I know that you are gone now.
Gone from the hill, the breeze, the

sunlight;

Gone are your golden curls and
laughter;

Gone to dust, but not from my
memory,

It is not a fancy.

The Midnight Watch
Dark grey, swift-moving masses hide
behind the stars,

And like a_ snivelling, petulant
child,

The wind, now beaten, yet not
_ reconciled,

Sobs through the _ rigging,
around the spars.
No fear of tearing ice or snow-hid
bars—
The man on watch is not to be
beguiled
By floating heaps; he knows the
masses piled
Beneath—

His face is wrinkled, bears the
scars
Of cutting Artic tempests when the
snow,
Screaming in fury, lashes o’er the
deck
And blinds the eye, and Death is
seen to now
And beckon for the man to come—

moans

Below,
We sleep, untroubled by a thought
of wreck,
Our trust in him on watch, our
faith in God.

THE DREAM
I wandered in a forest tall
And came upon an old stone wall,
Broken, grey and moss o’ergrown,
That could have been the ancient
throne
Of an ancient sage with flowing hair
Who thought great thoughts, so
wise and rare.

Strange and sinister was that place
So that I tried to hide my face

     

A long, long time ago (I have to
begin this way because a story must
have a correct beginning and ending,

I suppose), but it was not so. It
was yesterday I was passing a garden, a rough, rocky little place, with
paths unfinished here and there,
where someone only recently had
trimmed the birch trees, and the
boughs lay strewn about; an unfinished job I surmised.

There was a little girl in the garden, I saw her curls, strange though,
I thought at first they were yellow
flowers. You know, when looking
through trees how everything blends
into one—but it was a little girl with
curls, I heard her piping voice, “I
am tired of playing here; the scarlet
coats have fallen off my soldiers.”
Half-apologetically she added, “I left
them out in the rain I guess,’ But
mother did not answer reprovingly,
in fact she did not answer at all.

  

DEO DBDDADDADADALBDADADL BYES TIGL

VARIOUS VERSE

ATAIATAUIZ AAA TATIA IA UZ IA LUZ IU AN

. A BEDTIME STORY

SIMPLE SATIRE

    
  
 

  

We

.)

—
os

=

  

ON

 
 

MOA nC We
Against the force which held me
there;

My hopes now laid so cold and bare.
I tried to flee, Oh brave young fool
To stumble upon a stagnant pool.

With shaking limbs and cold moist
brow,

I liked to think that even now

To free myself from moss-grown
thoughts,

To save my youth before it rots

And floats, then fades in stagnant
pools,

I might escape the fate of fools.

Then suddenly I felt so strong

My bursting heart broke into song.

The sun shone through, the moss
grew green,

The pool gave forth a golden sheen.

And as I crept from out the wood,

I awoke and thought. . .and thought
I understood.

Renascence

How lonely and how frightened I
should be
When Judgment’s waking trumpets rend the skies
If I should seek, with growing sick
surprise,
Among the stirring host surrounding
me
And find myself lost in Infinity
Without you and your smiling candid eyes!
Then would I say, “And Hell is
hers, the Wise,
While I, the Fool, receive Eternity!”

The thought of ever singing doleful
psalms
And living in a smug hypocricy
Is quite enough to make my cold
gorge swell.
But, with you near me, I should
haye no qualms
Of writhing in an endless agony
Among forgotten souls in blackest Hell.

“LOVE”

A Dose of Humour—Shake Well
After Taking

If she can’t talk, you, call her
Taciturn.
If she’s a gossip, you call her
A brilliant conversationalist.
If she’s skinny, you call her
Fashionably slender.
If she’s too fat, you call
Pleasingly plump.
If she’s tall and seedy, you call her
Willowy and graceful.
If she’s a sawed-off runt, you call her
Petite.

That’s love!

 

One’s for the money, two’s for the
show.
Three’s to get ready, four, five.

 

Eenie-meenie-minie-mo, catch a coed by the toe,
If she hollers, She can’t take it.

The wee voice grew braver, “The old
soliders won’t fight now; they fall all
over the twigs, and they don’t shout,
and they don’t——Mummy, I wish
daddy was here. Our soldiers were
so brave and strong and the battles!
And the fights! And—What are you
crying for mummy? Perhaps they
will fight tomorrow when daddy——
but until he comes, know what I'll
do? Ill bury them; not very deep,
just so their red-painted coats will
show a little above the earth, then
I’ll know where my useless men are
buried. That’s right isn’t it mummy? They don’t bury soldiers very
deep do they? Do they, mummy?
Do they?

Oh, mummy don’t cry. “I’m not
erying. I think it’s funny”.

And as I passed on the sweet
tinkle of childhood laughter blended
with another’s broken sobs.

And they lived happily ever after.

   
 
 
   
    
   
  
      
      
  
   

tintin oa eee

SSS SSS SSS SSS SSS SSS SS
ee eee een eee

a
+o

Friday, November 1, 1935

 

@ SHORT STORIES AND POETRY ||

PRISCILLA

A SHORT

STORY

 

She was crimping her hair in the
harsh light of her room. “Tonight
is my last chance,” she thought.
“Tf I don’t get him tonight—”she
sighed and her lips shook. With
nervous fingers she pulled on her
dress, being careful of her hair. “I
mustn’t lift my arms high tonight—
that mend isn’t strong. What a pity!
That is my one fine gesture. Throwing back my head and folding my
arms under it.” .For an instant, a
whimsical light shone in her eyes,
but then was gone, She had more
important things to do than to muse
upon the oddity of existence. Yet it
was strange that life or rather how
life shall be lived often depended
upon a caprice.

Her black crepe dress was plain
and ordinary. Its white collar, however, was spotless. “I must be clean”
she thought; and looked at the white
tips of her fingers with satisfaction.
“Ollie paints her fingers but forgets
to clean her nails. I’m sure men like
clean girls—at least Jim does. Isn’t
he always talking about his mother’s
shiny pots and pans? I must ask
him about his mother tonight.”

Her features were homely: nose
too long and thin, eyes undistinctive,
mouth now unfortunately over-painted. Yet as she moved easily about
the small room, putting away her
clothes in a box under the bed, her
figure had a faint grace and delicacy. The real beauty of her carriage was marred by the ill-fitting
dress and the awkwardly-balanced
shoes. Her parents dying before she
was fifteen, Priscilla had worked as
a housemaid in various families, but
she rarely stayed with these families
more than six months. She had a
genius for giving a wrong impression. Everything she said or did was
misconstrued. It would be hard to
say why. Perhaps it was the halfhumourous light in her eyes that
dared you to believe or disbelieve;
perhaps it was because you sensed a
dignity in the girl that you could not
reconcile with her appearance.

She looked at her face in the glass.
It displeased her, but she did not
know why. “I look artificial; I know
I haven’t the right shades of powder
and rouge, but what can a girl do?
I do wish my hair was red or some
other colour instead of this—” For
an instant, her face hung suspended;
she saw it as something apart from
herself—a cold representation of the
failure of her life. She saw herself
as she really was, a creature without stability or ambition, a mere
hanger-on, one to whom life owed
nothing and from whom shortly was
to take everything. She had a distaste for the plain face; for the
crimped hair; for the cautious carefulness in which her soul was encased. She had never behaved impulsively in her life; her feelings
were impulsive but some prudence
restrained their expression. Today
she had given her second last tencent piece to the blind accordian
player, but she had given it in the
vague hope that Jim might be somewhere in the crowded street and witness her kindness, And she spent the
remainder of the afternoon scanning
the people to find him, a quizzical
look in her eyes at her own foolishness,

She turned sharply from the mirror, and hurriedly putting on her
coat and hat, left the room—her
thoughts in rebellion against the
world that forced her to be dependent upon a man’s fancy. But she
put out the light, smiling a little at
the inevitableness of character.

She ran down the stairs and out
the door. She heard the landlady
call out to her, but did not heed and
hastened on. “She wants my rent,
and I haven’t got it. And if she
knew this was my last dime, she’d
make me stay home and buy something to eat instead of going to Joe’s
Place. And I’ve got to go.”

Her landlady opened the door and
called after the dim figure of the
girl, “Priscilla! Priscilla Brown! I
want to tell you——” she ceased as
Priscilla disappeared around a corn
a eee o-oo sss
——
eee...

er. “Oh dear,” sighed Mrs. Weir in
her habitual kindly but worried manner, “I know she’s going to that
Joe’s Place and if she does anything
foolish—I only wanted to tell her
that Mrs. Wright, who let her go
last month, wants her back, because
she’d decided she likes a girl who
tells the truth. Oh dear,” and
whispering softly to herself, she
went back to her kitchen.

Priscilla planned what would happen tonight. Her imagniation spun
a thousand dreams—he would say to
her simply, “Let’s dance”, and they
would dance, bound together by that
feeling of intimacy, of complete
awareness of the other’s presence.
They would not speak—then she remembered that Jim liked to talk
while he was dancing, but his conversation was limited to “How’m I
doin’, baby?” and occasionally “How
ya doin’, honey?” She had a moment’s contempt for the hide-bound
mind of the man, for his illiteracy
and his complete misconception of |
her. But she dismissed the thought,
as she always dismissed such
thought, with a downward quirk of
the mouth. Her anticipation of the
evening quickened as she neared
Joe’s Place. Then he would say,
“Let’s get out of here, baby, where
you and me can be alone”, and his
blue eyes would look at her the way
they looked at Ollie Smith. Then
they would leave and she would do
anything he asked, be anything he
asked—her throat constricted at this
thought, for she had been brought
up in a sternly religious household.
But she knew she would have to ; her
life depended upon it, and after all,
what good is morality when starvation is the alternative He would
marry her, for he often said he liked

to see a woman in a home, doing
woman’s work.

She reached the cafe, and as she
climbed the long dark stairs, she
carefully arranged her expression to
the right degree of nonchalance.
“Men like girls to be at ease. You
are not to blush.” She went into the
ladies’ dressing-room and saw Ollie
Smith patting her dress before the
one large mirror in the room. It was
a new dress, Priscilla noticed—red
with white fur trimming; but already, the white had a dingy cast—
merely from being on the girl, said
Priscilla to herself.

“How are you, Priscilla?”

“Great.” She managed a little
cordiality, but she wished Ollie had
not come tonight.

Like your hair that way. Looks
nice,” said Ollie.

“Well, it’s clean anyway,” answered Priscilla.

“Well, I’ll be seein’ you,” and Ollie
went out into the dance-hall.

Priscilla was left alone in the
dressing-room. She felt suddenly
sick; contact with Ollie’s confidence
and physical appeal had unnerved
her. She could not go out. Jim
would be dancing with Ollie and
would not see her. “You’d think he
see what a slut she was by the dirt
of her neck and hands!” But Priscilla’s brief vindictiveness passed and
with it her descent into vulgarity.
Joe’s place was long and narrow.
Small tables lined its Sides, and the
orchestra played in the far end with
its back to the dancers, At the other
end was a bar presided over by Joe
himself. The light was dim, and as
Priscilla stood in the doorway, she
could barely distinguish the faces.
Her mind appreciated the incongruity of the scene—some danced in
evening clothes with berets on their
heads, some had aprons on—but her
eyes searched anxiously for Jim. Ah,
there he was. At the bar, alone.
Perhaps he was through with Ollie.
Longing to run in her eagerness, yet
knowing enough not to, she sauntered over to the bar, and swung herself up on the stool beside Jim. He
looked at her out of the corner of
his eye, “How are ya? baby?”

“Swell.” Although it was only
nine-thirty, she saw that Jim was
drunk. Oh well, she’d change him.

(Continued on Page Seven)

rr eT

 
  
 
 
    
  
  
       
     
   
   
   
    
   
  
  

day ; November 1, 1935

F wy
a

  

PERSONALS

a
_ om

 

W. Hugill, Law ’09-’10, has
been appointed as Alberta’s
1 Credit Attorney General.

s Soci

Bes.

 

Raymond W. Breau and Francis L.
eau, former students in Arts and
macy, are now established in a
partnership, Breau’s Pharmacy, in
_ Edmunston, N. B.

bods

 

a

a A number of recent graduates of
= University has sailed for EngSed and the Continent to study for
_ coming year. Among these are
_ Madeline Page, B.A. 1929, M.A. 1930,
who will take a course in journalism
in London; Harold A. Weir, B.A.
1931, M.A. 1983, winner of a Car| Be negie Fellowship which will enable
him to study at the London Institute
of Education; Helen Mackie, B.A.
1932, who will study at the Sorbonne
a in Paris; Freeman K. Stewart, B.A.
Be 1934, who has been awarded an
m ‘J.0.D.E. Scholarship, and who will

_ study philosophy, and economics at

Oxford; and Wendall Hewson, M.A.

- 1933, also winner of a scholarship to
Br: the University of London.

2

Rite
Be

Z|

 

fi ,

‘ ey
Pl c
i‘ J f us

Catherine G. Fogo, B.A. 1985, has
~ gone to McGill for further study.

 

Rie
r

Don Ross, LL.B. 1935, recently ar___ rived from Toronto, and is associated
with the firm of Burchell, Smith,
___ Parker and Fogo.
Yy ae RY, Mr. and Mrs. Richard Wilcox

(Alice M. Archibald, Arts 26-29)
spent the summer in various parts of
Nova Scotia, sketching. The last
two covers of “Mayfair” are the

work of Mr. Wilcox, who is a former
x King’s student, and whose home was
Bs in Windsor.
- =

i

ga

 

*

a
«i : F

 

Marjorie Dunsworth, B.A. 1929,
LL.B. 1935, was admitted to the Bar
of Nova Scotia on October 18th., and
has been articled to R. oneles
nS | Graham, K.C., of Halifax.

_ Another miainhes of the same class,

7 Sasesate Margolian, B.A. 1935, LL.B.
1985, has also been admitted to the
re Se Bar and will practise in Truro.

me
“|

€2

Bes” f

i

oe

 

é Hugh MacLennan, B.A. 1928,
Ph. D (Princeton) has gone to Lower
-  €anada College, as Classics Master.

 

Marion Dauphinee, B. A., 1929
(King’s) has returned to England
after a summer at her home in
Bridgewater, to resume her class in
the P.N.E.U. School, Nottingham.

 

= OO
oe a ee ee eae eee
NE ———

Among visitors to Halifax this
summer, after an absence of more
than twenty years, were “Lou”
Mylius, Eng. ’07-’10, a successful
. engineer with interests in oil in
i Witchita, Kansas, and Douglas M.
as Collingwood, also Eng. ’07-’10, who
is with the Sun Oil Co., Dallas,
Texas.

 

Other Nova Scotias visiting their
old homes were J. B, Kenney, LL.B.
1898, who now lives in the south of
France, and who spent some weeks
in Canada this summer; Mrs. Ernest
Forbes, of Weston, Ont. (Anna May
Gordon, B.A. 1902); Mrs. Edward
Corsi, of New York, with her small
son (Emma Gillies, Arts ’10-'14);
Gerald Conrod, B.Sc. ’31, with his
wife, from Toronto; Rev. George
Murray, B.A. ’20, of Trinidad; Dr.
C. St. C. Guild, M.D.C.M. ’25, of the
American Public Health Association,
New York; Dr. M. H. Dawson, B.A.
716, of the Presbyterian Hospital,
New York; Dr. Luther MacKenzie,
B.A. ’01, M.D.C.M. ’02, of New York;

Dr. D. S. MacIntosh, B.A. 712, of
Montreal.

 

Guests registered at Crosby Hall,
the residential headquarters of the
International Federation of University Women’s Clubs, Cheyne Walk,
Chelsea, this summer, wer: Miss Jes_sie MacDougall, BA. ’14; Mrs. John
-F. Cahan (Beatrice Daviss, B.Mus.
709; Mrs. W. L. Maclean (Allie Umlah, B.A. ’10); and Mrs. C. Wilson
Smith, interim Professor of Education at Dalhousie last session.

ae

aa

i w a

 

f Word received lately from Mary
___ Billiott Crocker, Arts ’27-’30, tells
| ~~ that she is teaching in St. John’s
-_——s« Indian School, Chapleau, Ont. Also,

ae
‘ ag

that Henri P. Binet, Law ’19-’20, for. Fe -merly of Etang du Nord, Magdalen
a.

 

ae ae ”t
r * > 4
4 ;

,

 

Manhattan
Dalhousian
Sends News

(The following items are contributed by the Publicity Committee of the Dalhousie Alumni Club
of New York City, a live organization of Dalhousie graduates.
Dalhousians in other cities are
urged to send similar material
about activities of their organizations as well as chatty personals
about their members. We should
like to make these columns a common meeting ground for alumni all
over the world.—Ed.)

 

 

Dalhousians in New York are already making plans for the reunion
of 1936. President Dunlop is calling
a meeting at which arrangements
will be discussed for a suitable representation from the local Dalhousie
Club. We feel sure that a large percentage will be present.

 

Dr. Luther MacKenzie, our esteemed honorary president, may well be
called the mainstay of the Dalhousie
Club of New York, which could ill
afford to dispense with his graceful
speeches and old world courtesy.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

>RESIDENT STANLEY’S OPENING

A MEP AGE

To Fellow Members of the Dalhousie Alumni Association:

We are to have another op-;

portunity of greeting our old
Dalhousie friends and meeting
those of more recent years in
a grand re-union to be held for
three days during the latter
part of August, 1936.

You in distant parts have
longed, we know, to return to
wander through the corridors
of the old Forrest Hall—to live
in the past with old friends and
dear remembrances. Then you
are anxious to see the new Dalhousie with her magnificent
buildings and fine grounds, her
facilities for research and-some
of the splendid results obtained,
and to learn the plans made for
the Dalhousie of the future.

We have three thousand eight
hundred members spread all
over the world and, for the
most part, taking the lead in
their own fields of endeavour.
We expect at least eight hundred of you to return to Nova
Scotia for the Reunion. Halifax and the province generally

 

BALCOM
Pres. Dalhousie Alumni Association.

5. KR,

are eager to welcome you.|:

Please do not disappoint us—
plan now to spend your 1936
holiday at the Dalhousie Re
union.
S. R. BALCOM,

Pres., Dalhousie Alumni Association.

 

the city. John is a member of the
staff of the Interborough Rapid
Transit Company.

 

Frances Power, who spent her va
John Dunlop, our president, who|cation with her parents in Halifax,

spent his vacation motoring through
Nova Scotia, has returned full of enthusiasm over the reunion. He
shuttled off to Buifalo recently, and
expects shortly to fly to California
on business in connection with the
law firm of Klihu Root, with which
he is connected.

 

Ross MacLeod, leading spirit of all
Dalhousie dinners, returned recently
from a vacation spent with his
parents in Cape Breton. He has
been secretary of the Club for the
past two years, and is consulting
lawyer with the New York Life Insurance Company.

 

Our efficient new treasurer is
Winston Proctor, who is another enthusiastic sponsor of the 1936 reunion. Mr. Proctor is an insurance
broker in Wall street.

 

Rey. Harvey Whelpley, still remembered as the taxi-driving parson,
has earned a place for himself in the
life of the community, He is one of
New York’s most popular young
preachers.

 

Dr. Gordon Melvin is a leading
light in the progressive education
movement. His ideas have been very
ably set forth in his new book.

 

Dr. Charlotte Munn is a valued
member of Rockland State Hospital.

 

John Rathburn is at present vacationizing in Nova Scotia. He has
closed his country home in Long
Island and will spend the winter in

 

Islands, is working with the International Labour Bureau, Geneva, Switzerland.

 

Miss Elizabeth Frame, B.A. ’29
M.A. ’29, formerly on the staff of
Smith College, Northampton, Mass.,
has sailed from England to do post
graduate work at the University of
London,

 

Graduates of the Dalhousie Medical School who have established
successful practices in the vicinity
of London, Eng., include: Dr. Robert
Kenney, M.D.C.M. ’24, of Deptford;
Dr. Robert F. MacLatchy, M.D.C. ’26,
of Norwood Hill; Dr. Reginald S.
MacLatchy, Med. ’18-’20, of Lee, who
practices as an eye, ear, nose and
throat specialist; Dr. G. C. Shaffner,
M.D.C.M, 1925, B.A. 1922, of Ewell,
Surrey, and also Dr. Barry M. Shaffner of the Dental School, D.D.S. ’24,
who practices at Palmer’s Green, in
North London.

 

Dr. John Denoon, M.D.C.M. 1931,
of Highgate, London. has gone for
some months on a trip to Africa.

»|ers for the Dalhousie dinners

has returned to the city, where she|Cudhea of Glace Bay, N. S.

is employed as head of the personal
department of Bamburger’s Department Store.

Evelyn MacKenzie, assistant counsel for the Third Avenue Railway
Company, is another enthusiastic
rooter.for the 19386 reunion. She
spent the summer in Scotland.

 

We are proud to add to our list
of members Rev. Sidney Bonnell, who

has recently been called to the pas
torate of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church.

 

Congratulations are being extended to Mr. and Mrs. Piers Brookfield
on the birth of a daughter. Piers is
one of our prominent New York architects, and for two years was
treasurer of the Dalhousie Club of
New York.

 

Dr. and Mrs. Hubert Lyons are
also being congratulated on the birth
of a daughter, their third child. Dr.
Lyons is a very successful neurologist in New York City, and for two
years was president of the Dalhousie
Club.

 

Miss Lois MacKinlay spent the
summer in Charlottetown, and has
returned to St. Agnes’ School, Albany, where she is head of the Classics Department.

 

Dr. Ross E. Faulkner, one of our
most eminent Dalhousians, spent
last summer in Chester, where he
has a charming summer home.

 

Mrs. Anna Creighton Laing is
practicing her profession in New
York. She is attached to the medical staff at St. Mary’s, and at St.
Vincent’s Hospital.

 

One of the most enthusiastic rootis
Norman de Carteret, who now resides in Pelham. He is on the executive staff of the Fox Film Corporation.

 

Two helpful members are Mrs.
Charles Fentenberg and Mrs. George
Watt, who have thrown their homes
open on several occasions to Dalhousians.

 

Dr. S. J. Turel was married in
June to a prominent woman attorney
who practices law in New York City.
The Club extends congratulations to
Dr. and Mrs. Turel.

 

Larry MacKenzie, Professor of International Law at the University of
Toronto, was a recent guest at John
Dunlop’s delightful apartment, and
was entertained by various members
of the Club. He brought to us added enthusiasm for the reunion of
1936.

 

PERSONALS

 

Dr. John Fabian Bates, M.D.C.M.
1926, was married to Miss Katie
on
September 20th. They will live in
New Aberdeen where Dr. Bates has
a large practice.

Aubrey Farnham Price, B.Sc. 1926,
was married to Miss Margaret E.
Henry of Regina, Saskatchewan recently. They will live at Shawinigan
Falls, P. Q., where Mr. Price is employed.

 

Rey. Clarence M. Nicholson, B.A.
1931 and Miss Ethel Mary McLellan
of Sydney, N. S., were married there
on October 2nd. Mr. Nicholson is
the incumbent of the United Church
at Imperoyal, N. S.

 

J. H. T. Nicholson, LL.B. 1915, of
Sydney Mines was recently married
to Miss Dorothy Whidden. The ceremony was performed by Rey. C. M.
Nicholson, B.A. 1931, of Imperoyal.

 

Some Dalhousie marriages of the
summer were:—

Winnifred Killam, B.A. ’88, formerly of the Macdonald Library
staff, and Ian Forsyth, B.A. ’22,
M.A, ’24, of Dartmouth, N. S.

Kathleen Eleanor Killam, B.A. ’30,
and Dr. Laverne E. Cogswell, B.Se.
31, M.D.C.M ’82, of Berwick, N. S.

Helen Williams, B.A. ’31, and Murray M. Rankin, B.A. ’27; B. Com.
’29, principal of Alexandra School,
Halifax, N. S.

Ann H. Allison, B.A. ’83 (King’s),
and John A. Hebb, B.A. ’82, headmaster of the lower school at King’s
Collegiate School, Windsor, N. S.

Ralph Andrews, B.A. ’80, to Miss
Muriel Chapman, of Amherst, N. S.

Robert Dougald C. Stewart, LL.B.
33, of Annapolis Royal, N. S., to
Miss Kathleen Emma Richardson.

Raeburn F. MecCun, LL.B. ’31, of
Oxford, N. S., to Miss Wilma Beryl
Baxter.

Douglas M. Scott, B.Se. ’30, of
Shawinigan Falls, to Miss Dorothy
Cummings.

Dr. Harold L: Mellish, B.Sc. ’29,
M.D.C.M. ’33, of Hunter River, P. EB.
I., to Miss Ethel A. Cameron.

Rev. John R. Davies, B.A. ’31
(King’s), of Toronto, to Miss Frances Hanfield Whitman, of Halifax.

Gwynn A. Currie, B.A. ’33, of Halifax, to Captain Geoffrey Walsh.

Helen Hewat, Arts ’24-’25, to Willoughby Scott Brent.

Wendell Hewson, M.A. ’33, of Amherst, to Miss Julia O’Brien. Mr.
Hewson has been awarded the Beit
Fellowship at the Imperial Colloge
of Science and Technology, London,
and will spend the next two years in
study there,

 

Dr. Alfred Roscoe Andrews, one of
oldest graduates of the Halifax
Medical School, died at his home at
Auburn, N. S., on September 21st.
Graduating from the Medical College

(Continued on Page Six)

i

oo ——— ee eee
ee
————

ADDRESS

Sate Ye

Pave Five

 

 

President Addresses
Students On Opening
Of New College Term

Ladies and Gentlemen:

I look on this reassembly of the
University family at the beginning
of term as a happy occasion. To me
it gives a lively pleasure: it is a
pleasure to look into the new faces
—we have very many of them this
year—and to see the familiar faces
refreshed, perhaps I might say in the
case of the professors rejuvenated,
by the holidays. Holidays are a joy
to the spirit; but not the least pleasant thing is returning, refreshed by
them, to the task.

This morning, without preamble
or qualification, I wish to invite all
the students to consider with me the
welfare of Dalhousie University.
There is no exaggeration whatever
in saying that upon you chiefly that
welfare depends. It is true, of
course, that if the University had no
business executive it might come to
an end for lack of funds. It is true
that if there were no teachers in the
University students would probably
not come here at all. (I say probably, not certainly, for in some historic cases students have banded
themselves together with no teachers whatever). But far the most
important thing about a university
is the quality and conduct of its
students. What are they like? What
are their aims? What are their interests? How do they spend their
time? And by their time I mean
their time, the time that is their
own, when they are neither in class
nor examination hall. As some men
know, the quickest, easiest, most
comprehensive way to discover what
a given university is like, is to settle
quietly in the town where it is situated and get acquainted with crosssections of its undergraduates.

Well, what discoveries about Dalhousie would that method yield?
What are you like? How do you
spend your time? How do you
spend your long vacations? I am not
asking whether you earn money in
your vacations. I know that many
of you laboriously do that. But what
do you think about when work is

over? What books do you keep beside you? What are your interests? The answer to these ques
tions is—much more closely than
any of you realise — an accurate
description of Dalhousie. The answer to the same questions fifty
years ago was a description of Dalhousie fifty years ago. And, again,
the answer to these questions by
various groups of students indicates
just as accurately that there are different types of students.

Please do not, for one moment,
imagine that I am asking whether
many of you perform the tasks set
by your professors, or whether your
interest is great in those precise
matters dealt with in your class
rooms. In the first place I take
that much for granted, but again
satisfying these requirements is
relatively a small thing. I will give
you evidence for that statement: In
four years, I have not met one single
stupid person among Dalhousie undergraduates, and to the best of my
belief any person who was not stupid
could comply with the minimum
class room requirements and examination requirements of the B.A. or
B.Sc. course with extreme ease. In
fact I am surprised to discover with
what ease many students, who are
not accounted brilliant, secure what
is called “Distinction” in those
courses. Perhaps some of you would
not agree with my analysis. But few
who have had any great commerce
with life, as well as experience in
education, would deny the statement
that bare success in the ordinary
Dalhousie courses is no great matter; that it gives no certain clue as
to the mental and moral powers of
a student, that it is no guarantee
that a person has been well or even
adequately prepared for Life. Life
is a vast, complicated affair, of endless difficulty. “Collecting Credits”
in Class X1 and Y1, and Pl and Q1
is a simple matter, and gives one
little equipment for the puzzle and
game we call Life. Furthermore, as
it is very largely done for you, in

pn
FO Ss
2 EEE

text-books and lecture-notes, it is to
that extent dull, and gives you no
glimmering of the fascination there
is in Life, which is a game that each
man has to play for himself.

Let me illustrate it in another
way: We have had some discussion
here in the last two years, and some
of you have participated in it, whether we should allow you to carry on
with games yourselves; or whether
in the interests of your health you
should be compelled, if you do not
play games, to undergo regular
physical training, according to a
time-table. Now, leaving out those
dutifully- minded and unimaginative
people who enjoy compulsory physical training according to time-table,
what is the difference between this
thing—“doing jerks”, as it is sometimes called—and playing tennis or
some other delightful game? Surely
it is the difference between a robot
or a free agent, the difference between being a dead machine or a live
animal,

If you follow this thought you will
see what my enquiry as to your way
of life means. The enquiry is about
your Freedom, about your Leisure,
about your own Life. Relative to
that, I am sure you will admit,
nothing else matters. As compared
with that, you will agree, your attendance at Professor <A’s lectures
and your securing 40% or 41% at
Professor B’s examination, is very
trivial and inconsequential. “No”,
you will say, “the thing of vital consequence is what I myself, do for
myself, in these four years at Dalhousie”. Will you let me add, in
case you are too modest to add it,
that what you do, thus independently, in these spacious, golden years,
is of vital consequence, not only for
you, but for the future of this country, and for the future of learning,

and science, and society in the whole
world?

You have heard, you cannot have
failed to hear, the common saying
that what matters chiefly about college experience is not classes and
curriculum, but the life led while in
college. I warn you, the antithesis
is a little too neat—the important
things can never be so neatly labelled

(Continued on Page Six)

 

Acknowledgments

Acknowledgments
ceived to date:
1935.
D. McIntosh, Hector McInnes,
K. C., Donald McInnes, H. B. Stairs,
Ira Cameron, Ronald H. Fielding,
Henry F. Munro, Ian Macdonald,
Mr. Justice Graham, F. V. Woodbury, Prof. D. C. Harvey, Dr, Judson Graham, Dr. H. G. Grant, Dr.
A. J. MacKeigan, Dr. Gerald Burns,
J. H. Matthewson, George D. Grant,
Dr. F. R. Davis, Reginald M, Piercey,
H. W. Kirkpatrick, Warren Publicover, O. R. Crowell, S. A. Morton,
H. F. Creighton, H. S. Ross, G. K.
MacKintosh, John E, White, W. H.
Fulton, D. A. Cameron, McNutt, H.
E. Mahon, George Burbidge, Dr. H.
S. Crowe, C. W. Parker, I. C. Mackie, Hon. John Doull, W. H. Ross,
J. W. Godfray, Allistair Fraser, R.
T. Macllreith, Sam C. Brookfield,
J. C. Doyle, Judge Geo. H. Patterson, W. J. Leahy, W. O. Thompson,
H. G, Stairs, J. W. Weldon Dr, J.
F, Klizak, A. H. McNeil, Warren
Publicover, Dr. F. G. MacKay, Hon.
R. B. Hanson, Hon. J. T. Ralston,
E. H. Davis, R. L. Ritchie, Alton
Dingal, G. R. Marshall, Dr. Hugh
P. Bell, J. D. MacLean, Horace Renner, W. P. Copp, J. R. Corston, T.
R. Robertson, Mathers & Doull,
Tina Singer, Everett B. Muir, Dr.
Townsend, Everett Fraser, Charles,
S. Herald, Rudolf A. Clemen, D. W.
House, K. T. E. Wedster, Rev. J. A.
Scrimgeaver, Dr, T, M. Creighton,
Fred Yorston, Miss J. L. Palmer, J.
KE. Rutledge, R. M. Hattie, Dr.
Bruce Almon, Carl P, Bethune, W.
H. Noonan, R. E. Inglis, John Roper,
G. F. Pearson, F, H. M. Jones, Dr.
Macaulay, Dr. W. G. Dawson, Thos.
P, Slaven, H. R. Wyman.

 

of dues. re
As

“ne
Zt Eien dibie ae LA

 
  
 

aS ox
* By

pi
af

* PS
: fet <
o oe
= vs
oe
_ ay

ee

eed Fs as ‘s *

i
-7

*

we
7 :

a

a
Bey?
E.: '

= 3

- »
fe BS,
nav
a

2
3 a

rs - ‘i

-, vs
a

>| eee

Bye yb

aa

wrong. Now here are seventy typi
I a
— ‘

:

 

~

ye
ah

t if,

hs »
: *
ny

ee a AG Ps ; Heel to the hardy root and

 

E published which deals with any
aspect of drama, dramatic art, his_ tory,

What do other classes matter? This

books and four Greek plays for next

then, we'll have it.
- I could tell you what to study,

   

2 ae

: went as with drama.

  

ENGLISH 9

Well, I must say that you seem to
be the worst class that I’ve ever
had! When I remember—but we
won't go into that just now. If
somebody will pull down that blind
at the back of the room so I can
see what I’m saying, we’ll try to
make the best of the circumstances.

I don’t know why half of you are
taking this class. Someone must
have told you that it was a cinch
and that I never pluck anybody.
Well, it isn’t and I do, if you want
to leave, just get up and go now.
What! no one? All right, you’ve
asked for it, so take what you get.

Now for text-books and references. First of all, read Harrison
and after that read any book ever

method and tendencies or
dramatists. There are about 100
books on the subject in the Dal
Library and 50 in Kings, Read them
all—you’ll be ‘responsible for them.
is English 9. Read half-a-dozen
day. Maybe we’ll have a quiz then.
Would you like that? All right

but I won’t. That’s for you to guess.
I’m different from all my colleagues.
They give you the answers and you
guess the questions; I give the questions and you guess the answers.
Tll pluck anyone who guesses

cial questions which I might ask
unless I change my mind at the last
-minute.—Got them all? Then forget
them. I'll give you some more next
_ day, if you remind me to do so.
i. didn’t come prepared to give a
lecture today—I never do. I don’t
have to prepare for this class or
any other, You wouldn’t know
' whether or not I was lecturing any
- This class deals with ariny as
Acting is a
modified form of showing off. I’m
acting now. Why the laughter?
I’m serious! Drama is to poetry
what a buffalo is to a gopher; it is
larger, woolier and more ferocious;
you can’t kill it with a club and
it’s easier to keep track of and is
more noticeable. See the point?
Now forget it.

Theories, definitions and abstract
terms are dangerous, so I'll give
you lots of them. MHere’s a dozen
for next day.

Is this a good scene for a play?
Two negroes fighting in a stagecoach going rapidly over rough
country in a terrific storm at midnight. Why not? Give three reasons. Wrong!
There is a limit to acting. This
is in the language. An actor may
look like a carrot, but he can’t make
a noise like one with any degree of
success. Were you laughing at me
again? ‘

Now I’m going to ask a definite
question pertaining to drama. Here
it is: If an egg and a half cost a
cent and a half, how long would it
take a lobster to kick a sand-flea’s
ear full of sand OR is drama a
representation or a re-presentation
of an action? You have five minutes
to decide. In the meantime I'll
think up a lecture for next day.

 

Ho hum! Any results? How
many are asleep? What! None?
Leave it till next day. Now I’m

going to give you a lecture on horticulture. I have some roses at home
—you’ve seen traces of them in my
lapel and on my shoes. Drama is
like roses. The Greek drama was
too fragile to live. The English
drama was too crude to be enjoyed,
but it was hardy. A wild rose can’t
be killed; lovely (horrid word!)
roses are easily destroyed. What
do we do? Graft them—not in the
political sense. Graft the delicate

_ there “you are. That’s what our
aie Bree from as the

 

 

      

. coxuitiinamiastraael ie

   

——— @OTrBweys Base wen oS ehodee TSP - Bost Wat ad ~B wm SS——_SFSe4owotsTtoxw*owo~_ [Tr S>'T+$..---— os —

     

Is Latin Dead,
Or What- - 
 

“Latin is a language,

It killed the ancient Romans
As dead as dead can be
And now it’s killing me.”

These oft repeated lines bring

back memories of high school days.

The fact that we have to keep on
repeating them during our first two
years at Dalhousie seems to reduce
the college to high school status in

'this respect. Why should all candi
dates for a bachelor or arts be foreed to waste the valuable time and
money that they spend on Latin 1
and 2?

Some ardent lover of classics will
suggest that a knowledge of Latin
is helpful in studying English. The
average student is not interested in
this possibility and is quite satisfied
to merely pass the exams. Besides,
if this is the object, why waste time
on all irrelevances tn Latin?
would be far better to take a course
in English, avoiding the tiresome,
roundabout method.

Another vague but inevitable argument presented in favor of Latin
is that it trains the mind in conciseness, and developes reasoning
power. Modern psychologists contend that this statement is false.
Even if it were true, would it not
be far better to memorize and reason about something interesting or
practical? The mental training
would be equally good and the student would have acquired some useful informatoin, or would at least
have enjoyed the work. Advanced
courses in Latin literature may
possess an irresistible charm, but
unless a student wishes to seek
these distant pastures he should not
be forced to struggle through Latin
1 and 2.

Why then does Dalhousie cling to
this ridiculous custom, when there
are no reasonable arguments in its
favor and we hear so many complaints against it?

Keep on complaining, all ye suffering students of Dalhousie! Perhaps if you wail long and badly
enough some one will wake up and
rectify this horrible wrong.

 

Imaginary Meeting
(Continued from Page Three)

all contributions be addressed to me
at 244 St. James St. W., or to Art
at Room 708, 215 St. James St. W.,
Montreal.

Tookie Murphy: How shall we discover the whereabouts of the members?

President: Our Treasurer, Murray
Rankin, and Tom Coffin are working
in conjunction with the Alumni Office to prepare a full and accurate
directory of Class ’27. You may expect the letters to be sent out within a few weeks.

gift to slip for nearly nine years.
take great pleasure
Harry Bell’s motion.

President: All in favour say “aye”’.
All: Aye!

President: The next item deals

1929 Reunion.

August, and maintain their record.

Avis Marshall McCurdy: What a
splendid time to present our Class
Gift to the University!

A long shout of “Hear! Hear!”
Bub McKinnon (still again): And
what a time for that keg of beer!

Meeting adjourns.

 

next day, but I’ve given it today.

of my own.
s| That’s all.

Bub McKinnon (again): For once,|become intelligible:
I have no fault to find. The idea is| politics, the clash of interests, the
a sound one. I feel that we have all'modes and manners, and everything
been very remiss in allowing a ’27 |

| —

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

PRESIDENT STANLEY’S
Opening Address

 

(Continued from Page 5)

and disposed of—and the saying is
capable of a wrong emphasis. But I
pass on and admit the saying,
however it is construed. For, as I
have already made clear, my sole
concern this morning is with this
“life led at college’, your own life,
which you absolutely control. It
cannot be affected in the least, unless you choose that it shall be, by
any increase of scholarship on the
teaching staff, or any improvement
in our equipment. This indeed is
exactly why I ask your assistance
about it. I know that many of you
are thinking of it; last year a large
number of you asked me to attend
your own debates about one or two
aspects of the question. But I think
that few of you yet believe, as I do,

It | that this is the most important thing

connected with the University. At
least you do not believe it in the
same way as I do.

Many of you believe, I know, that
the self-imposed life of students—
what you sometimes call “students’
activities” —is the important thing
about college. But if this is so, does
it not obviously follow that the character and quality of your so-called
activities is more than ever significant? Take the habit of reading as
a test. It has become a commonplace all over this continent that college graduates read pretty much the
same stuff as the man on the street.
Booksellers and librarians, being in
a position to judge, are very emphatic on this subject. It is a matter of common observation that,
while college graduates have multiplied in numbers during the last generation, book-shops in the European
sense of that word, and in the former American and Canadian sense
of that word, have almost passed out
of existence. One is driven to the
conclusion that the hundreds of
thousands of undergraduates in Canadian and American universities are
forming no habit of good reading.
Presumably they read the books prescribed for study, but habits are not
formed merely by external prescription.

Well, let us ask ourselves about it.
How many of us are reading literature, history, politics, philosophy?
With all due allowances for the man
of genius who has original and valuable ideas, unaided by the thoughts
of other men, and for the sheer
scientist whose mental life is built
up round his observations of nature
(there are both types), it must still
be true that at least ninety-five out
of every hundred who are ever going
to do anything, or contribute anything, or who are even going to justify the pains spent on their education, not only must do occasional
reading, they must immerse themselves, steep themselves in the great
books, in the thinkers and creators,
and in the critics of human life.
Only so does the scene before them
the shape of

that has an historic root. Any

I|neighborhood, any profession, any
in seconding | business will sooner or later confront

you with abstractions and principles,
legal, theological, political, scientific,
which will baffle you unless you can
carry them across frontiers, or into

President: The vote is unanimous. | the past, or into a social frame.

And so, granted fully that your

with the 1936 Reunion. Our records | free life at college, your intercourse
show that Class ’27 had the largest| with your friends here, or your own
representation of any class at the/solitary hours, are more important
Your executive ap-|than your formal studies,—granting
peals to all members to plan to be in| that, for argument’s sake,—does not
Halifax for the 1936 Reunion, which | the real question still lie ahead? If
will be held during the latter part of |into your free life, whether solitary

or social, there enter none of the
great things that have been said and
discovered and done in the world,
neither Plato nor Shakespeare, nor
Newton, nor Michelangelo, nor Mozart, nay not even the European
novelists, then of what, pray, does
your life consist? What is its value?
For what sort of existence is it preparing you? What stock of ideas

grafted to the hardy English at-| will you have at the end of it? Are

you going to be just another target

In everything we do, we tend to)for the chatter of the newspapers
do what we did this time last year, and the maudlin outpourings of the
and this time last year I went home | radio?
and had my dinner, so if you’ll ex-|the end of your days? For that you
cuse me I'll indulge in a little acting | could have been prepared in a thouSee you next day.|sand easy ways: you need not have

That, and nothing else, to

come to college at all.

—————————

I am not suggesting, of course,
that you sit in the library during all
your spare hours. I am not suggesting one lark less, nor any lessened
exhibition of the high spirits of
youth. I am not suggesting any
diminution of your leisure. The word
school means leisure, as I have already said to some of you. But many
of you need for your gay untramelled
youth a variety which is lacking to
it: and many of you need in your
leisure greater and more satisfying
things to feed on. Itis you, however,
who must attend to these things. If
we who are older tried to map out
your gaieties for you that would at
once reduce you to a kindergarten.
And, if we intruded upon it, your
leisure simply would not be leisure.

And now, one word more. I hear
many of my coevals saying with
alarm and dismay that youth today
is revolutionary. I am not alarmed
nor dismayed on that score. I should
be if I thought that young men and
young women were not revolutionary. My young friends, you should
be. There is no other hope for the
world. There are many things always to revolt and rebel against.
Somewhere or other stupidity is always enthroned. Somewhere or other
there are always wrongs to right.
Sooner or later there is going to be
a wholesale revolt on the part of the
youth in North America against
what is offered them, by selfish, commercial interests, in the name of
amusement and entertainment. Suppose you began a revolt here and
now against the so-called music that
I have been listening to for the last
four years in Dalhousie, and against
what I have for four years heard
called by the name of dancing.
Ladies and gentlemen, music is an
Art, dancing is an Art, but they
bear not the remotest resemblance
to what you, and young people
elsewhere, have been calling music
and dancing. Twenty-four hundred
years ago it was gravely stated that
nothing so degraded the taste, and
debased the intelligence as vulgarity
and cheapness in these Arts. In the
interval there has been plenty of
historical evidence of the truth of
that grave statement. Men and
women who will accept the false for
the true in music, will listen to those
who advise that slavery be accepted
in order that freed6m may follow;
they will listen to promises of
twenty-five dollars a month for
nothing except a vote. And so, I
say, revolt and rebel. Refuse to accept shoddy for wool. Retain your
scepticism and humour. Don’t be
afraid of being called revolutionary.
But don’t confuse your dreams with
business, nor imagine that Life and
the World will yield up their riches,
and their age-old wonder, for so
many pennies in the slot.

Now, my friends, this may seem
a serious, if not a stern word, to deliver to you this glad autumn morning. I make no apology. The fact
that I utter it to you argues my
confidence in your intelligence, on
the whole, and in your reserves of
moral strength.

I wish you, at the beginning of
this term, every good wish: every
good wish for your physical health;
for a serenity of spirit in this dizzy,

pee - eeeeee

  

“The Famous

Country
Doctor - - 
   

99

One morning last June I was motoring along Highway No. 31, lost in
meditation because the scenery was
not sufficiently striking to attract
my attention. Suddenly I was aware
of a sign which read “Williamsburg,
very slow please,” and I took my foot
off the accelerator. Before I knew

it I was lost in a mess of tied up

traffic and moving along at a snail’s
pace to avoid running down pedestrians and the more unfortunate people whose means of propulsion was a
wheel chair or a stretcher.

How strange it seemed! And how
unlike the ordinary farm-centre with
its single store, its barber-shop,
church and school. There were rows
of cosy little cottages, modernistic
restaurants, and such an ususually
large crowd of people whuse automobile licenses revealed that they
were not part of the local population.
My interest was aroused and the
novelty of the place was so intriguing that I turned out of my way to
investigate. To my further amazement I discovered attractive hotels,
beauty-parlors, and endless tourist
lodges.

Then I came upon the reason why
a little cross-roads was essentially a
city. Here was the clinic of Doctor
Locke—which I have since learned to
call “the circle.” I immediately recognized the famous doctor whose
picture I had so often seen in newspapers and on the screen. So fascinated was I that I decided to become
better acquainted with this muchtalked-of place.

As I walked about, gaping at
everything in a fashion peculiar to
sight-seers, I observed that the
trend of all traffic was either to or
from Dr. Locke’s swivel chair. How
closely it resembled a living organism! There, in the centre of the
circle, was the soul, the heart, the
life-giving power responsible for all
the hustle and bustle. Converging
at this point were the principle veins
and arteries. The long lines of patients slowly moving in were the
veins carrying the spent blood back
to the heart for purification. The
out-going crowds were the revived
life-blood finding its way through the
arteries back to the tiny capilliaries.
For these I found a suitable parallel
in the little lanes and by-streets
which led, by way of the main
channels, back to the heart of the
organism. The restaurant, of course,
represented the digestive tract supplying the blood with the required
nourishment. Just as a human being
depends upon the entire world for
the commodities which satisfy his
needs, so this creature drew its supplies from far-away sources, for
among the throng were people from
all parts of America.

I derived a certain satisfaction
from this comparison and as I went
on my way again I carried with me
a vivid picture of this lone man,
working steadily with the regularity
of a heart-throb, that life might go
on and health be restored. Just as
the pumping of the heart sends the
blood cells back to their work with
a renewed supply of oxygen, so this
famous doctor was continually pouring people back into the many walks
of life with restored health and hope.
He was working faithfully towards

not to say, troubled world; and for)a noble purpose—Life, a happier and

advancement on the paths of wisdom.
October 3, 1935.

 

Personals -
more abundant life for suffering
humanity.

caer reer

(Continued from Page Five)

in 1879, he practised first at Aylesford, N. S., and then for some years
on account of his health, in Turk’s
Island, B.W.I. He took then a post
graduate course in New York hospitals, and for the next thirty years,
practised as a successful specialist in
eye, ear, nose and throat diseases in
Malden, Mass. About three years
ago he retired, and spent the reremainder of his life at Auburn,
among old friends and his family.

 

Dr. Daniel MacNeil, M.D.C.M. 1913
died at Glace Bay, N. S., on September 10th., after some months of illness. Well known from his early
youth as an outstanding athlete, and
interested in every form of sport, Dr.

MacNeil spent twenty-three years of
practice among the mining towns of
Cape Breton.

 

Older Dalhousians will learn with
regret of the death on September
20th, of Florence Margaret Truman,
—Margaret Newcomb—the first woman to graduate from the University
in 1885 with a most distinguished
record. For some years Mrs. Truman was the principal of the Halifax
Ladies’ College; on her retirement
she made her home in Berwick, N.S.,
where she died aged seventy eight
years. A warm adherent of the University, she showed her never failing
interest in its fortunes, and by her
will has left a generous gift to her
old college.

Friday, November 1, 1935

GAZETTE
BOOK

 

REVIEW

 

MARY, QUEEN OF SCOTS,
AND THE ISLES

(By Stefan Zweig)

“Burn Edinburgh ... Holyrood...
Leith ... exterminating men, women
and children wheresoever resistance
is shown.” These were the instructions given by Henry VIII in an attempt to win the hand of Mary for
his son. Mary was then six years
old.

Zweig freely admits he dramatizes
the life of this woman. He carries
the story with sparkling description,
from the heights, the ascension of
the French throne with Frances I, to
its terrible depths, where Mary’s uncontrollable passion causes her to
lose husband, crown, and later, her
head,

Here is a book filled with vibrant
personalities: Elizabeth, her favorite,
Lord Cecil, Earl of Bothwell, and
John Knox, are paraded. The characterization of Knox is stinging:

“. . . The blindness that he wore
made him one of those cruel and
narrow-minded persons for whom
only their own truth is truthful,
only their own virtue virtuous, only
their own Christianity Christian.”

Again, with the Earl of Bothwell,
Mary’s third husband, the portrait is
extremely vivid. Libertine, adventurer, proud but ruthless, this man
kills the King of Scotland for Mary’s
love. He promptly tires of her in
a few months. Once, taking advantage of a lull before an impending
battle, this bold fellow offers tofight any man, his peer, to settle the
combat. “Brutal evilly,” the author
terms him, but one cannot fail to admire the dashing personality.

After the early death of her
French husband, Mary retires to
Scotland, where she marries again.
Bothwell’s men despatch this second
husband and Mary marries for the
third time. The nobles, seeing a
chance to better their position with
the Queen’s half-brother as regent
for her baby son, drive her from the
country.

Mary’s behaviour had now lost her
the support of the Catholic courts.
She turned to England, not through
choice, but because she had nowhere
else to go. Eight years before she
had coupled the arms of England
with those of Scotland and France,
claiming to be the legitimate ruler
of Britain.

Now comes the question of Mary’s
execution. At this point one is reminded of Zweig’s “Mary Antoinette”
where the author delves into the
mind of the condemned queen. Here
he ferrets into the brain of Elizabeth. The chapter is well named,
“Elizabeth Against Elizabeth”. Here
is a keen psychological treatment
of a troubled woman. We are reminded of Elizabeth’s tears of despair and jealousy at the news of
Mary giving birth to a son. Her
fear of a woman who has pretended
to be queen, and the Catholic support still to be obtained in England.
Against that is a keen pricking 0
conscience for wrong contemplated
to one coming voluntarily to her
protection.

Paradoxically enough it is in death
that Mary becomes the controlling
figure; for years she had been Elizabeth’s prisoner. This is her finale;
very well, Mary Stuart willl be the
dominant, the courageous, above all,
the poised master of the situation.

Declining to beg Elizabeth’s clemency, she dons a black velvet, goldstamped dress, with long regal train.
Every article of clothing is carefully
chosen, taking two hours with the
help of attendants to attire herself,
Zweig truly says:

“Never had a woman condemned
to death made herself ready with
more artistry and dignity.”

Only once in the whole dismal
procedure does Mary lose her poise.
Surrounded by her enemies, on the
very platform where the block
awaits, a reformed minister persists
in delivering the funeral oration.
Mary begs him to stop. Determined
to hold the spotlight, he continues.
Mary drops to her knees, uttering
her prayers aloud in Latin, drowns
out her tormentor. The rest is soon
over.

 
7 Ae
re

   
   
   
   
    
 
  
   
    
   
   
     

s him, he caught the clean
grance of the girl. He said,
“Let’s dance.”
And as they danced, Priscilla
‘thought, “Well, the evening’s begun
the way I hoped, maybe it will end
. al l right. But I do wish he wasn’t
ms arn nik ??
Jim pressed her hand and said,
Py “How’m I doin’, baby?” She smiled
_ up into his eyes and replied, “Fine.”
____ She saw Ollie Smith looking at them,
and deliberately turned and placed
her cheek against his.
_- ~~ +The dance ended, they sat down
¥ ee at: one of the tables, Jim keeping
_ Priscilla’s hand in his. She wondervi on ed if she really loved him; certainly
‘._ She spent all her days looking for
_. him and all her nights at Joe’s
___—*~Place hoping he would dance with
_. her. Was it only the allure of the
____ unattainable? She looked at him as
_ he slapped the table and cried, “How
about it, Joe? Gimme a drink. You
don’t drink, do you, little Priscilla?”
Ollie came over to them, as Pris_ cilla had known she would. “Like
my new dress, Jim?” passing her
hands down her hips.
“Men like the obvious,” thought
} Priscilla as Jim said, “Swell. Looks
Pe swell on ya, honey.”
a “Are you goin’ to dance with. me,
Jim Dare?”
“Sure, sure. But go ’way now.
- Me and Priscilla’s having a great
time, aren’t we, honey ?”
“Sure we are.” And she put her
other hand on his. But her repugnance for the whole episode almost
ze showed in her eyes. The fastidiousness that kept her body clean also
-. made her dilike any smallness of
‘action. But she had to do it, tonight.
The room became warmer; the
laughter and the shouts more frequent; the orchestra more frenzied.
_ Priscilla and Jim hardly danced at
all; they simply swayed to the music.
Jim held her closely, too closely.
‘She felt sick, and determined to
take him to one of the tables. He
didn’t want to go, but she finally

  

—_

i
[

Priscilla

(Continued from Page Four)

persuaded him. She attempted to
bring back normality to their relations by conversation. She said,
“And your mother, Jim? You have
not told me about her lately. Is she
still in the country. And are her
pots and pans still shiny?”

She did not notice that the man
glanced at her with a frightened expression; that his face gradually
became ashamed. She continued,
“And the flowers and the vegetables.
How I would like to see them. You
must take me to the country some
day, Jim.” The hot room fell away
and she was in the green cool country. She was walking among the
trees and their shade was good to
her tired face. She picked a flower
languidly and its smell was sweet.
She was startled from her reverie
by Jim leaving the table. She followed him but he pushed her away
and went over to Ollie who was
sitting, slightly drunk, at the bar.

“T’]l dance with ya now, baby.
Only mind ya don’t talk about my
mother, see” and he shook her.

’Course not, Jim. That’s not a
proper subject for any lady,” and
laughing fatuously, they left Priscilla standing there.

She went into the dressing-room
and looked at herself in the mirror.
Her hair was tousled and her collar
askew. There was a flush on her
cheeks and her mouth felt dry. She
was ashamed; all the ugly events of
the evening passed before her eyes—
his breath, the hot clasp of his hands,
the expression on the dancers’ faces
—all rose in a rapid crescendo in her
mind until the room whirled around
her and she cried aloud. The sense
of her own degradation in taking
part in such a scene was unbearable;
she wanted to cleanse herself from
every memory of the evening. How
long she stood before the mirror, she
did not know, but the voice of Jim
saying to Ollie, “Let’s go some
where, baby, where you and me can
be alone,” roused her, and clutching
her hat and coat, Priscilla left Joe’s
Place.

 

 

es -* oe
4 eee ee rea

oe

I ™

>
TA.

&

F
 

ee YOU'VE HAD AN
_ HOUR OF SQUASH...

 

AND YOU'RE FEELING A

BIT FAGGED OUT....

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

 

ee pees st megee
x ;
af By
, t

THE BEST

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

According to the HALIFAX MAIL
the law boys have made history in
the appointment of Miss Purtill to
manage the football team. We admit
that it is different but then the lawyers-to-be are different. We wonder
if the reason for the lawyers defeat
at the hands, or should we say feet,
of the meds was because the manager of the team broke training rules
and went on a party the night before the game. Or was it due to the
fact that the manager and her assistant were not on speaking terms
at that time!

 

And talking about the law lads
(and lasses, too) we understand that
a certain member of the third year
goes down to the law office (where
he is articled) very frequently. We
hesitate to suggest that the reason
for these visits is purely legal; we
suspect that there are other attractions than books — possibly it is
looks. At any rate, we would like
to go down too, but then three is a
crowd, even at 8.40 A.M.

 

The value of a classical education
became apparent during the recent
speechmaking by several Dalhousians. We understood that one W. F.
Armstrong (alias Baldy) made great
use of his knowledge of Latin. In
speaking before the voters of Ketch
Harbour, Mr. Armstrong greatly impressed his listeners when he uttered
such expressions as NEMO DAT
QUOD NON HABET and other expressions thrown out at random by
Profs. Crouse, Willis and Cleveland.

 

In that interesting novel “Holy
Deadlock” we find this definition of
alcohol: ‘A sociological anaesthetic
for an intolerable environment.’

 

The girls at the Hall are not being
fair to their public. When their
press agent gave those interviews to
the HALIFAX MAIL, the said agent
might have given the MAIL the
latest photographs of the girls in
question. It would have made the
story more complete; a picture is
worth ten thousand words, somebody
has said. Maybe the girls would
rather have the words!

 

Bernard Shaw declares that a war
between Italy and Ethiopia is inevitable, simply because capitalism
stands to profit thereby. ‘Interest
obtained on capital will double; industries will make big profits; banks
will flourish. The heaps of dead in
Ethiopia will not inconvenience the
owners of heaps of money now on

deposit at one per cent and hunger
ing for five.”

GAUVIN

AND

GENTZEL

Photographers to

DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing
Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B-6992

 

TAKE YOUR

EDICINE

“Believe it or not”—for your discretion and gullibility.

It is said with assurance that Gillis does not get a “thrill” out of his
heart clinics—much to the irritation
of Dr. Holland, but John Webster
certainly puts feeling in those puckered lips when he serenades on his
guitar. Muffat Roy wants to form
a duo, but the only drumstick he
ever held prior to joining the Dal
band, belonged to a turkey. T.Y.M.
recommends Dr. McLean as an excellent piano player.

 

Enid’s back in town. She regards
capering about the nite clubs in
Montreal a foolish practice if you
don’t take a drink. McGill is only
one-tenth as good as Dal, though—
but it’s heavenly to be among
friends again—huh, Nick!

 

T. Y. M. challenges the football
supporters among you to display the
enthusiasm our dear faculty was
wont to give vent to. A leader of
men, Dean Grant, threatened the
Dal team to victory.

 

Trust your own convictions, but
when Dr. Gosse is weary and dispirited and inclined to watchfulness
it does his heart good if he can ponder on the moods and wash them
away with a favorite potion, until a
deep sleep gradually steals upon
him.

 

Dr. Atlee, in lieu of a gynecology
clinic, confided to the class as follows:' “I believe in socialized medicine; I do not believe in the equality
of man; women with thick lips have
featured dispositions; matrimony at
21 years of age, with or without
love’; and for the benefit of the
Shirreff Hall sophisticates: “There
ain’t no such thing as an intellectual
evening; it may start intellectually,
but it terminates inter-neckingly.”
These sagacious remarks do not excuse the “Great Benji” for not restraining himself at the game
Thanksgiving Day, when he actually
grabbed Dr. Bean’s hat and booted
it into the air, :

 

While bordering on the subject of
women, T. Y. M. congratulates Billl
Embrey for yielding to Mickey’s entreaties and not attending the Med
dance. Sam Rosenberg is a bit
more stern: when his girl-friend oefused to vacate his lap, he knocked
her off.

 

Apart from learning anatomy,
anything is liable to happen in the
Anatomy Lab. Barnstead is fairly
proficient in the gentlemanly practice of thumbing his cadaver’s nose;
Clary Gosse delights in wrestling
with his stiff, and Roy Stevenson is
adapting himself to the art of “BullSession”; which brings us to the inferior two-thirds of this column,
where Dr. Mainland startles us with
the admission that Jamieson is
wrong for the first time.

 

For the slovenly Med who neglected to shave before going to a clinic,
Mother Larken, of the Public Health
Clinic, will provide you with blade
and soap—and even listen to your
tales of woe with the deepest sympathy. Contrary to this womanly
trust, Dr. Burns says, “Believe in
nothing, particularly elections and
the imagination of student clinicians.” Dr, Carney believes it would
be a splendid idea if some of the
boys showed up for ward-walks.

 

It’s fair weather when Dugan and
Dr. Dwyer enter together at the
Liquor Commission.

 

The accusing finger singles out

|Harrowitz and Lehv as the perpetra- |

tors of the Biochemistry exam. Dr.
Young’s comment is that one good
questions deserves two more.

 

How do you like these qualifications for the promising young surgeon. He must not be afraid of evil
smells; he must cut or destroy boldly
like an executioner. He must know
how to lie in a courteous manner;
he must know how to extract the
gift of money from his patients; and
he must feel undoubtedly superior to
the physician.

 

Believe it or not, but T. Y. M. respects the wandering thoughts that

 

MODERN

Page Seven

 

EQUIPMENT

Enhances

TURRET

  
  
  

urret

CIGARETTES

QUALITY

SAVE THE
VALUABLE
POKER HANDS

Quality and Mildness

 

 

IMPERIAL TOBACCO COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

 

 

    

Life Is That Way

(Continued from Page Four)

telligible except for the last few
words: “....to be hanged by the
neck until dead.” Then he could feel
the cold stone of what seemed to
be a musty old cell with cobwebs
on the ceiling and in the corners;
a period of undeterminable mental
agony which seemed like a troublesome dream—and then the tug of
something coarse that imparted a
painful sensation of the tearing of
flesh.

It was a busy day in police headquarters, so none minded the rain
outside.

“Blake, the Cap wants to see you
right now.” It was young Sandy,
the new rookie, who spoke.

“Well, well, no more pounding the
beats for you,” remarked a whitehaired officer who was perusing a
daily newspaper. “Detective Blake

—how does that sound?”

“Or maybe just plain Mr. Blake,”
shot back a heavy moustached protector of the law.

Blake stood up and with a shrug
of his shoulders entered the captain’s office.

“Any more news on the body we
found dangling from Pier 21 last
night?” was the question shot at
Officer Blake.

“Purely a case of suicide, sir,”
Blake promptly replied. “The body
was identified this morning by a
man called Bris—no, Grisholm.
Name, Manuel Barras. Occupation,
former employee on a government
engineering project.”

Outside it was raining. SomeWhere a woman was waiting outside
with a tiny, undernourished cripple
in her arms, her sorrows being
drowned in a downpour of tears.

 

communicate with the future and reveal that better better facilities for
medical service, the great achievements in research, the numerous
aides available to the physician and
the need for fewer doctors to do a
greater amount of satisfactory work
for a larger number of people.

champion football team.
| Miss Purtill?)

Just so there won’t be any hard

feelings, we’ll mention that Hy Mag
onet will probably have won the in
terfactulty track meet with the Med
team, and Toby Beeber deserves a

round of cheers for putting out a
(Eh, what!

 

    
 

Wear A

EATON’S

own ewe

When you see the wide selection of smart hats on display you
will realize it is easy to choose one to suit your taste! Fur felts

in snap, welt and bound brim models.

browns.

Greys, fawns, and

sah 3.50 *° 6.50

&T. EATON

MARITIMES

Bh SE

Eaton’s Main Floor

 

 
   
   

   
    
 
   
    

ae i
4

-..

Pf rt

 

ES “=

;
De
rs

   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  

  
 
 
 

here tnder the N.F.C.U.S., some that


ae
: é
;
L 4
¢

stood out, others that were under
color. But this year, the visiting
team is probably the most outstand
ing team ever to come to Dalhousie
Both have had wide experience, each
has followed different courses and
possess special advantages for this
Tour. Smith is a graduate of
Toronto Varsity, a football star, and
has debated for the different universities he has attended on nine occasions. Graduating from Toronto in
1982, he has travelled extensively
since then, and has been active in
public speaking and lecturing. He is
now at Western studying theology.

Brossett is a graduate of Huron
College, where he was president of
the Debating Society, president of
the Athletic Society, and of the Students’ Council. He is now taking a
post-graduate course in English at
Bishop’s. And during his six years
at college, he has represented his
respective schools on seven occasions, and has the record of never
losing a debate, and is a member of
the present winners of the Intercollegiate Debating Union, composed of
all the Universities of Quebec and
Ontario. And added to his other
achievements is the fact that he is a
Shakespearean actor of some ability,
having taken the lead in “As You
Like It” last winter.

Representing Dalhousie are MacIvor and Selikoff. Both are experienced debaters, Maclvor having led
Acadia and took part in two other
debates for Acadia. Selikoff is a
B.Se of Columbia, and has represented Columbia against Bates and
Harvard. Both are letter men from
their respective Universities.

This will be the outstanding debate of the year, and it will be the
only outside team to debate here until March. To this debate, the students are asked to give their whole
hearted support, not only to back up

our own team, and to compensate

them for the work that they have
put on it, but also to create with the
Ontario team a true picture of the
University.

Gazette Presents-(Continued from Page One)

this paper the first reply to the

charges of “high-hatting” at Shirreff
Hall. The letter writer, an ex-co-ed,
_has kindly made her letter short.

The editors would be glad if all con
tributions are made thusly short, but

snappy and full of pep. Thank you.

Humor-(Continued from Page Two)

day when I shall be sorry to find
that the election campaign with its
speeches is over, and I feel discontented because I no longer may enjoy the flow of humour intermixed
with the play of wit in the discussion
of our political problems, my heart
shall leap within me and be glad.

 

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the
Council of Students on Sunday,
Noy. 3rd, at 2.30 p.m. in the Forrest Building. All budgets not
yet discussed or passed on must
be handed in to the SecretaryTreasurer not later than Friday,
November ist. Those interested
are asked to attend the meeting.

Freshmen Show-
(Continued from Page One)
quartettes; ballroom and ballet dancing, vocal solos, and a piano solo.

Rounding out this program a short
one act play will be offered. Directed
by Herman J. Halperin, formerly
with Hall of Fame Players of New
York, this comedy, “Thank You,
Doctor”, is set in a physician’s waiting room; mighty fast moving with
clever dialogue. The play looked
good at last rehearsal. Hold it,
frosh.

Class ’37 gave us Fran M. Gardner, delightful soprano. ’38 offered
Big Bill, tenor extraordinary. This
year from Lunenburg, home of
choirs, comes Marion Geldert. Possessing a clear, sweet voice, and an
excellent pianist, she is in several
numbers besides her piano solo. If
she should develop measles or mumps
before the show, a third of the program would be upset. Button up
your overcoat, Marion.

Anybody who has acted in a
freshman show appreciates its general feeling of uncertainty and nervousness. Liberal applause on such
occasions is like getting an “A” after four hours work on a theme. The
show is good. The presentation is
different. Give it support.

MAGONET STARS—
(Continued from Page One)
High Jump—Martell (K), Weldon
(F), Bird (L). Distance 5 ft. 1 in.

Walking Race, 1 Mile—Stewart (A),
DeWolfe (K). Time 11 m. 13%s.

440 Yard Relay—Won by Medicine
(Magonet, Mitchell, Stoddard, Epstein).

440 Yard Dash—Dear (E), Stewart
(A), Begg (K). Time 52 sec.

60 Yard Dash (Girls) — Jemmott.
Time 71/5 seconds.

Dal Tigers-
(Continued from Page One)

  

   
  
  
  
  
 

The standout for Dalhousie was
Stoddart, who playing the full-back
postion on several occasions ended
the snappy passing attacks of the
Caledonians by his hard tackles.
Thompson and Ross on the Tigers’
three-quarter line also put in some
good tackling.

The Tigers were also disorganized
by the loss of Smith who was forced
to retire from the game five minutes
after the opening whistle with a
broken ankle, the result of a kick.
“Ab” Hanway, Intermediate standout replaced Smith for the rest of
the game.

Dalhousie line-up:

Full-back, Stoddart; Wing threequarters, Mitchell, Ross; Centre
three-quarters, Thompson, Winchey;
five-eights, Corston; Standoff half,
Smith (Hanway); Scrum half, MceSween (capt.); Forwards, Lawrence
Mercer, Ball, Sheppard, Cook, Ganter, DeWolfe.

 

 

DANCE MUSIC
Laurie Hart

And His Orchestra.
Call B-6489

Halifax

 

    
     

Birks-.

This year again Birks
will service all Balfour
contracts for Fraternity jewellery, stationery, favors and novelties. A wider range
and better facilities
than before.

    
      
    
 
 
 

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

  
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
   

  
   
 

ee r

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Says Empire
(Continued from Page One)

whether the British commonwealth
of nations would be willing to pay
the price in blood and money, which
would be required of them should
they remain parts of the British
Empire, if the League peace machinery broke down, and the world
returned to its pre-war state of
armed alliances. The speaker
questioned whether the Dominion
would decently keep out of the
struggle if Britain became involved
with other European nations in any
ensuing international embroglio.

Mussolini’s attitude was paradoxical, when he _ proclaimed his
country overpopulated, although he
would not allow emigration out of
Italy, was Dr. Stewart’s opinion.
Italy was wanting -in resources, yet
experts had shown the resources of
Ethiopia to be of doubtful value, he
stated.

The speaker stressed the tremendous power of economic sanctions,
when applied by 52 countries of the
League. A greater depression than
has ever been known would result
in Italy, he said.

Meds Hold-
(Continued from Page One)

Jerry Naugler and his orchestra
in their first big 1935-36 appearance
dispensed music that the patrons
liked immensely. Mrs. K. A. MceKenzie, Mrs. R. J. Bean and Mrs.
W. G. Colwell were chaperons.
Those in charge were Harold Devereaux, Gordon MacDonald and
George Murphy.

St. F. Xavier-- '

(Continued from Page One)

a St. F. X. performer, which took
the play deep into the Tigers territory, they had the advantage in
territory during the whole game.

The first Dal score came early in
the first canto when referee McDonald awarded a penalty kick to Dalhousie 25 yards out in front of the
St. F. X. goal posts, Sheppard annexing the three points. The
Xaverians evened the score shortly
afterwards with an unconverted try
by Mulholland.

Early in the second half, Dal scoved on a penalty kick, but the score
was disallowed because the kick was
not taken through the mark. Dalhousie’s last score came on a try
just before the game ended when
Ganter, Lal forward, picked up the
ball a few yards from the line and
plunged over for the three points.

Manager Bob McLellan reports
that the trip was a success financially, with receipts totalling $377.00,
(made up of a $250 guarantee and
$72 split on the gate from Caledonia
and a $50 guarantee from St.
Francis Xavier) and expenses running to $870. (made up as follows:

Transportation, $195; meals and
accommodation, $160.; incidentals,
$15.00).

Class 733-
(Continued from Page Three)
which in wet weather became a
muddy bog—incidentally providing a
subject for much barbed criticism in
the Gazette—so that no more useful
benefaction could have been chosen.
The knowledge that generations,
walking dryshod, will arise to call
them blessed, must provide members
of Class ’33 with an agreeable emotion gratifying in itself, apart from
the fact that they, in these hard
times, and so soon after graduation,
have sufficient regard for their University to collect and expend some
four hundred dollars on such a gift,
an improvement to the campus and
a boon to its users.

It is interesting to note that the
University has in its turn extended
the paving to the walk, parallel to
Class *33’s gift, in front of the Sci
ence Building, to reach to the steps
leading to the lower levels adjacent
to the Morris Street gate.

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

 

 

 

  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  

  
    

 
 

   
 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of

CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

  

   
   

  
 
  

   

Students Council-
(Continued from Page One)

non-attendance. It is hard to believe
all five had good cause.

Both girls of the Council were absent. As a result no girls budgets
could be considered.

The Council must realize their
obligation, Last week the spending
of $3000. was before the meeting.
Consider it, $3,000; and almost half
the Council absent.

The seriousness of such a situation
cannot be over-emphasized. With this
thought in mind the writer suggests
the following:

The only excuse for absence to be

1. The member being ill.

2. The member being out of
town.

If a member is absent twice from
a meeting, without previously notifying the Secretary of the above reason, that person be considered to
have automatically terminated their
office.

The Council members must realize
the students will not allow such haphazard disregard of their interests to
continue.

Students Try-
(Continued from Page One)

the domain of the Axemen, but its
success depends upon the reception
the plan receives from loyal and enthusiastic undergraduates.

A great number of graduates have
already signified their intentions to
turn out and help their team. It is
up to the men and women on the
campus, whether tomorrow’s showing is a flop, or whether Dal will
make the much vaunted spirit of the
past look like a wet blanket, in comparison.

We want a train.

Our Buyer
returned with
a selection of
hundreds of
patterns for
you to choose
from.

YARROWVALE SCOTCH TWEEDS

— outstanding vogue for Fall! Foremost in
popularity is Yarrowvale Scotch Tweed, sturdy
as the briar, colorful as the heather— now
featured at Tip Top Tailors among a range of
the choicest British woollens.
an unrestricted choice at one price. Made to

Girls Win and Lose

(Continued from Page One)

Joan Furlong started off the game
with a mad rush—right through the
defence, and—she scored! Joyce Sircom lost no time in keeping up the
good work. So the first half ended
with a score of 2 - 0 for the Dal
girls.

In the second half the girls were
just as fast and even more enthusiastic. This time it was Vivian
Douglas and Edith Blair who scored.
The bleachers were resounding with
support for the Edgehill girls; K.C.S.
yelled lustily for both teams.

Friday, November 1, 1935

The coach, John Willis, had every
reason to be proud of his Dalhousians.

Dalhousie line-up:

Forwards—Joan Furlong, Betty
Pearson, Joyce Sircom, Vivian
Douglas, Edith Blair; Half-backs—
Mardy Schwartz, Isabel MacKay,
Margaret Woolaver; Full-backs —
Mary Miles, Ruth Woolaver. Coach
—John Willis.

 

Monday afternoon saw the defeat
of Saturday’s proud victors. H.L.C.
played a vastly superior game and
won with a score of 1-0, The Dal
girls will have to get into better
form before they play the boys’ team
on Thursday.

 

 

| CO.EDS:

‘Shoes Tinted to Match Your Gowns

We Call and Deliver

CAPITOL SHOE REPAIR

44 - 46 SACKVILLE STREET

 

Just Phone B-8566

 

 

CASINO

STARTING SATURDAY

ZASU PITTS
JAMES GLEASON

Hot Tip

PLUS FOUR SHORTS!

manship, in the

vite you to select
You may make
is cormplete.

Une an
442 Barrington Street
Halifax, N. S.

York and London Styles. We in
now while the range of patterns

 

  
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
 

Today, Sat., Mon.
The Screen’s Biggest Show

“BROADWAY
MELODY OF 1936”
with

JACK ELEANOR ROBERT
BENNY POWELL TAYLOR

15 STARS—200 GIRLS
HEAR 5 NEW SONG HITS!

   
   

"es
ars

hn

your individual measurements
with Tip Top Tailors work
UNRESTRICTED CHOICE
OF BRITISH WOOLLENS

ue

TAILORED TO
YOUR MEASURE

latest New

your suiting

  

LIMITE

me

cH ALE ES

 

 
