 
  
  

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   

 

       
     

 

 

 

 

 

3 , sliiaeemin ANNAN UL
a ey Monday
i
Haunted al University
4 Night
. House (advt.)
y ey : aoe UUNUINQQN00000CH00ULUDU QA 00000000
me) = Les .
!
c No. 12

 

  
 

DA

 

,
‘
2

 

"VOL. LXVL

  

AN EDITORIAL

3 Last evening, the night of the first important senior bas
ketball game of the year, the Medical Society also had an im
portant meeting which called for the attendance of a large a
number of the medical faculty. Thus once again conflict oc
curred in Dalhousie activities. The — men split and ee
dly the D.A.A.C.’s treasury suffered. is organization V Aes ; 8 en | |
eed gene to a great expense and trouble to bring a very fine Webber wk Higgins Students Give Musgrave and Doug Crease tallied repeatedly, to dom
_ basketball aggregation to the campus, only to find some other ‘ ° inate the play for Dal as their team brilliantly fought off a
r campus activity in competition voli Hy oA eg ean Repr esent Dal in Opinions On highly favored Bar Harbor team, finally losing in the last
: This is not the first time that this identical thing has hap- three minutes of play. Webber, the threat he promised tc
pened, but it should be the last. On this occasion, however, C.R. C. Debates Easy Death et era, P ule — ors ere af le taia 2

= Bartek Ws Medion Gociety, had their ar. Gad. oe, displayed a variety of basketball unparalleled on the
neither party 1s : Dal court, scoring eighteen points.

 

 

(By LEONARD A. KITZ)

 

Vv 5 . ‘. '

rangements made for this special meeting early in December. thst ali dies aod oialacWela tae the
; ; . Ste T) risit tshone r boys
Moving pictures were pee euch ee ee een sea Moot Court room Thursday, January en hee ps eort ii : oi
evening. The D.A.A.C. could only get this outside team to play 441 simon Webber and Ernest Hig- Lawy ers Demand ighiots: but! Dal-was not-to be daant
’ on this occasion. Thus the blame cannot be attached to either|~. Masta es socecent: Del: Euthanasia-an easy and painless 8 | shots, b as not to be dauntside. Bodsis' da tie, Badlo Commission’s| ath—New Oxford Dictionary. | Better H anging aor vers constantly Seong ies:
_ ~~ ~='This mistake, however, has been made too many times,|(°% ™ ; kets with great ease outside the foul

ebati series, and defend the e712 4° . : bie Sen
Sea kK ee tinder ie). weidance: | of) Load Facilities line. The first half ended 15 to 8,
shield, won fo é s “i Mohaphan, president of the Britich with the lead unexpectedly in favor

Richardson and Pink, emblematic of oe
. Council of Surgeons, a bill is to be «“ tae ew = ee
Eastern Canada Debating Cham- |. ; ei I always start from the top and a : ar Eee) Gee
Higa hie = introduced into the British House of |}et them work down” said “Doc” Resuming play, the visitors ran
pionship. Parliament. This bill is the “Volun- By x - g roe cok, ; =n up six points in one and one-quarter
This marks the third year of par- tary Rathnnaske Ast! dbo purpuss eects ata Law society ji geting et minutues to within one point of the
ticipation of Dalhousie debating]. rhs ol 4 : onday. The future legal lights|p,| lead. Webber and Musgrave alsures . is to legalize the taking of life from| wore discussing the inadequacy of oe ae
teams in the Commission’s series of 7 a Meshes, & ae eY ternately scored, to bring the scor
; , those afflicted with painful and in- clothes hangers. Taking “Doc” up! , g score
inter-varsity radio debates. Two | ; _ Saws & Pp up to 24 all. Tension grew as Webyears ago, Oxley and Fisher reached ee aia on his idea he was appointed as alae again flashing] . fin d :
The plan requires the consent of | committee of one to interview the | : eee pen) ee

the Eastern finals, last year Richard-| 4), patient, immediate relatives, his| president of the University) oa the over his head, bringing Bar Har
| 4 and the Students’ Council must find a solution. It would be
son, Pink and Landreville won the own physicians, and a government- aaa |bor into the lead for the first time.

very easy for them to set up some sort of a committee that
would demand to be kept in touch with every campus activity
that is taking place. In that way, when any society would
want to put on an affair the chairman of this committee would
be communicated with and he could say whether or not anything else of general importance is taking place. At the same
time this would greatly eliminate many hard feelings and
| conflicts. This matter is of great importance and should be
) considered by the council at a very early meeting.

 

 

W O R L D O U T LO O K j © Eastern championship and reached appointed “referee.” Seven days MacIntosh brought the fans to their
! Cc f E the All Canada si¢mi-finals, losing out

 

Hockey Manager feet as he sank the ball from + the

“Si” Khatter was railroaded into|side lines. Webber again eluded
manag:rship of the Law Hockey | Musgrave, shifted a fake and scored.

must elapse after this agreement
during which time any of those concerned can change his or her mind

to Ottawa College. This year, the
All-Canada Championship is the

 

 

e | | : goal, | and stow the act: team; immediately following his With two minutes to go, a fifth

a AT C An account of the events leading nomination, it was moved nomina-| personal was called -on Webber, but
<4 ; IN SYMPATHY jup to the present Italo-Ethiopian Schedule Widened SLAYS OWN CHILD ~ tion cease. Despite Khatter’s plea|Mit missed both, as the erowd
aw : || situation was given when Sir Alfred| The schedule has been widened this “The New Statesman and Na- |he wished to withdraw the motion|moaned. _

     

| The Gazette extends sin- ©
cere sympathy to Gordon
Lea of the Medical School
on the death of his father,

year to include Dalhousie and St. F.) tion” (Oct. 1935), im an article |¢atried with his own voice like a cry| Bar Harbor scored one on a double
X. from Nova Scotia, U. N. B. and] on the subject, cites the case of |im the wilderness raised in solitary | foul, bringing the score to 29 to 28
Mt. A. from New Brunswick, McGill,! man whose wife had recently died objection. After several kind offers | jn favor of the visitors. Smith shatMontreal, Loyola, and Bishop’s from] of tuberculosis. Shortly after his by charitable students to donate the |tered the hopes of the Dal team in
Quebec. The schedule for the Eng-/ little daughter contracted the dis- |USe of Chocolate Lake, $8 was voted|the last forty seconds of play as he
lish section is as follows: ease, and painful complications | for expenses. Said Khattar, “There’s|sank a goal.
set in. The family doctor admitted |8teat material here...” The visitors demonstrated in an
the child could not recover. After DANCE PROFIT. expert aBGEREE how to freeze the
nursing with devoted care all night The daties conmitthe veport. which ball as the whistle blew, ending the
in his poverty-stricken home, the game.

was many dollars ahead of last Dalhousic — Ted iCreasc. 42D
year’s ball, was read by George Crease, 6: Shanshouse. 9. Sirlin.
Thompson. The sum spent for a Miller, 1; Takosh, Mukerave, 13:

deck of cards, bought for a guest, Green, MacIntosh, 2: Cook, 2: Mac
; ~ , ao) e
was accounted for, and a balance of | Leod DuBilier Sensbinat a
> ’ ; c .

17 cents was on hand. It was sugbsg atvend to her suffering... gested that nails be bought with this

7 Universi
ie) eeuld have been. actually profit as a temporary aid for the niversity Theatre
y at, ; : ,...¢ | Pressing question of hangers. °
liable for punishment if he had not Night Mon. Jan. 20

]
of (2). Resolved that university; done so. . . It is indeed food for

Zimmern, world-famed expert on international relations, addressed a
Dalhousie audience for the second

    
   
   
 

time in two years at the Dalhousie

Hon. W. M. Lea, Premier

 
 

of Prince Edward Island. |) &Y™™asium, Wednesday night.

 
 

Sir Alfred said Mussolini’s present
action arose from the Machiavellian

Jan. 31lst—Bishop’s College vs. Dalhousie.. Resolved that sweepstakes be legalized in Canada.

policies which has predominated in

: Glee Club to Europe since the Roman Empire.
Europe has always been the scene

of a struggle for power, and when! Feb. 7th—U. N. B. vs. Mt. A. Uni-| father grew desperate at the sufversity.. Resolved that in Canada/}fering of his child. In the morntoday democracy is triumphant. ing he killed her. Said Judge Bronson, in summing up the case, “Had
this child been an animal . . . far

from being blame-worthy in put
Present New Play
Je the power which France seemed to

: Rehearsals of the Glee Club’s most | gain after the World War was seen

important dramatic production of the| to be artificial, Mussolini stepped in
year, to be presented during the first | when he saw that France was afraid| Feb. 7th—St. F. X. University vs.
week in February, are now in full|of Germany, and before Hitler’s na- McGill University. Resolved that
swing. This play is in the form of a|tion could finish its re-armament in Canada today democracy is
three act mystery-comedy entitled, | program. triumphant.

“The Haunted House,” by Owen DUCE MISCALCULATED. Feb. 14th—Winner of (1) vs. Winner

 

Davis. This presentation is of the The Duce miscalculated both in
same type as last year’s success “The, Abyssinia and Europe, the politi- students should refrain from poli
tical activity.

thought.” Class *36 Party On Monday night, January 20th,

a there is going to be a revival of the
oe ee enrages Voted Success good old-fashioned University The$ ; atre Night. The place will be the
Hark ye! Fisher theory proven. Capital Theatre. The time will be
For a half dollar a couple, Class ’36 | @"Y time before the intermission between the first and second shows.
The picture will be “Collegiate”,
ficent number of couples clad in oe et eae Jone Penner,
' “ . _|costumes in keeping with an Old|*Tances Langford, Lynne Overman,
Delta Gamma sition passed. So will that feeling| Clothes party gathered to pay the|Ned Sparks, Betty Grable and hunaninet talcin -.|expenses of the affair. There were|@Te¢S of sweet looking campus coStarts New Year ia only in an maerietaen law a few attending who did not wear the | &4sshabby garb requested but these The stage of the Capitol will also

Against Commandments were in the minority. Hard collars, | be alive that night, as Tice’s Society

Ken Sullivan—Theological student, |frayed sweat shirts, potato-bag Preuss os pe Proueuber: ERS Eragge
“It seems to me to be striking out patches, dilapidated sweaters, over- divertissment includes fourteen trainthe word “not” in the commandment, | alls, and old dark trousers were in ed dogs, who perform some amazing
“Thou shalt not kill”. It is further | evidence as the collection joined in| ¢ks; Jorgan, the elephant, and
more in direct oposition to the words | helping Jerry Naugler and his lads ey Peers Ene (DRCHHIg: AUN
of Christ, “I have come not to de-| make the music go ‘round and round.’ | W)° invites any lady or gentleman
sthoe: ial: Baik tmeate bank? The evening was a happy one, to remain on her back more than a
probably because the fellows attend-|t¢W Seconds. It is understood that

ing felt they got plenty for little. | number of the leading figures oe
The committee were successful as | *e campus will try to ride “Dixie

Ghost Train” and it is expected that} cal expert said. He misjudged
with last year’s experience our new! the attitude that the British peoperformance will overshadow our| ple would take in regard to his
previous dramatic works. policy of aggresion, and he

A new stage setting, designed| thought the League would neglect

especially for this play, has been| his Abyssinian enterprise, as it
constructed during the Christmas; had neglected Japanese aggresholidays. Much credit is due Jack] sion in China.
Dacey, the stage manager, who, with There are several encouraging
his crew of able assistants gave so
freely fo their time in performing
this work.

The entire production is under the
general direction of Joseph P. Connelly who is assisted by Herman
Halperin.

Feb. 21st—Winner of (3) vs. Winner
of (1) and (2). Resolved that an
enlargement of the powers of Superstition
provincial governments would be| Henry Ross — Pre-Med. student,
in the best interests of Canada.| The use of ether at child-birth was | held a most successful party in the

once prohibited. The stupid theory lower gym Monday evening. A suf
 

was that each woman was then pay
factors in the present situation,
said Sir Alfred. One is the policy
of neutrality of the United States,
which lifts the burden of worry

 

over conflict with that nation ;
Delta Gamma has got into full

swing again and the highlights of
enforce a blockade. the season will be basketball and

from the British Admiralty, should
GREAT INFLUENCE. debating. The girls’ basketball meet
the British government have to

 

Gazette Editor
Leaves Staff

ing was held at Shirreff Hall last
week. Maureen Sparling, Charlotte
Smith, and Fran Roach represented
Acadia and Mount Allison. They
drew up a schedule for the inter- (Continued on Page Four)
collegiate basketball matches, decid
ing that the home games would be

e oll: and compete for the handsome prize
pera on February 29th and March Hygiene Talks that the Capitol is offering.
7th. Since they decided not to take Everything points to a gala affair.
out amateur cards, the Dalhousie For Fr osh NEW P REMIER To make the Theatre Night a sure

girls will not be able to play in the success, the management have ar
The influence of the smaller states
of Europe have a great effect on
League policy. These nations are
the conscience of Europe, the speak
Having forsaken his alma mater|er claimed.. The League is not only
to re-enter the field of journalism, | strengthened by these small powers,
| Phil Sargeant, managing editor of but by the addition of a greater
the Gazette during the last term, is, power, the combination of the five

 

 

now pursuing the life of a news-|countries of Eastern Europe.
paperman in a section of the local| The entry of Russia into the
press. League shows that nation no longer

 

 

its Sargeant was a prominent figure|puts economic revolution before | City League. Compulsory lectures on personal William F. Armstrong will be |ranged a special price to Dal stu#8 _ in the life of the Dal Glee Club, as;world peace, because they realize| The Delta Gamma debating society| hygiene have been ordered for all| chosen as leader at the forth- dents showing their D.A.A.C. cards.
ie well as a valuable member of the (Continued on Page Four) will start off next week with inter-| first-year students, by Dean Grant} coming caucus of the Liberal The Glee Club will have a score of

 

staff of the Gazette, and the present
__ staff of the Gazette, as well as the
rest of the College will want to

thank him for the benefit of his
- newspaper experience, and the pep

_ which his influence has lent the
-_ eolumns of the oldest college paper
5 oe | North America.

ao”!

year debates. The intercollegiate| of Med School. On January 15, 22} party, in the Law School mock cheer and song leaders on the stage
GRAD PHOTOS = combats will be against Mount/ and 29 the whole group is expected| parliament, thus automatically |to lead the crowd in Dal songs and

 

; St. Bernard and will be held during|to attend, while the lecture on becoming premier, the Gazette j|cheers. Be sure to be on hand and
All prospective graduates are |the latter part of February. The, February 5 is for men only. Febru-| learned from usually reliable | join in the fun. And in this way
requested to have their pictures | girls seem to be taking a real in- ary 12 is reserved for women stu- sources. Rumor also has it that |Show your appreciation to the Captaken as soon as possible at terest in debating this year and it|dents. All lectures will be held in Arthur L. DeWolfe well-known itol Theatre, so that more Theatre
GAUVIN’S between 9 - 12 and |looks as though it may become a|the Chemistry Theatre, and will] third-year librarian will head up | Nights will be forthcoming in the

2.30 and 4.30. very popular indoor sport. begin at 2.30 p.m. the Conservative forces. future,

\

 
       
 
 

all.

—

  

=

   
 

hs ms os 7 ; ; "lay

a

 
 
  

ay i
fim ae ene iy ba al
i 7 op
M “a - :
a ee mi
rate

Pet teeennbone (ree EET i geet ie: ea ne ravine) Pam epee + eee

* a) '

ce,
os R

ores
ey

>, *

ph *

    

  

   

    

©

ee .- oe a Ay a ai
eh + De oe ==
y he a J . ae ¥ . os: ae
a a = a, ae

         
  

4 ia

 
N. GREEN cee IRVING PINK
‘B.4148 B. 2442
eae “Managing News Editor
SATE: News Editor
JOHN TRACY
asians
n
LEN KITZ EDITH BLAIR BILL SUTHERLAND
Society iety . Literary Editor Sports Editor
MERLE aad ELISABETH BALLEM BEN DuBILIER
B. 2148 Staff Artist L. 3341
3 C. F. BENTLEY
Business Manager Assistant

ae Ta

ae

rey

Seem a

   
 

= *
a

ae
ee ’
a?

4

‘ ae
oe

 

ae
ast
ad

___ necessarily be found, and it is to
demanding a remedy. |

 

J. R. H. SUTHERLAND —
) :

--—— Tishment of a

looks like the

- . =
mae >!

wide recovery; all will be
He Ky tration.
_ Student of today, for it is in our

i,

 

"Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. Ss.
EDITORIAL STAFF

B. 5737

| ; “UNIVERSITY NIGHT” mae
“IDLANS are under way for the staging of one of the
To gatherings of students in the history of
Halifax. The Capitol Theatre, through the kind management of Len Bishop, has arrangements for a University
Night, which is to include all the universities In the city,

The management, it is understood, has a vaudeville
program arranged, which includes a bucking mule. The
person who can ride this animal will be awarded a lucrative
gift. Besides this, the picture “Collegiate” will be offered,
and best of all there will be a special reduction in prices
for college students.

The aan is the Capitol Theatre; the date 1s Monday,
the 20th of January. Let this mark the beginning of Dalhousie theatre nights, where the student-body can get
together and enjoy themselves for a nominal fee. _

May we congratulate the Capitol theatre on their excellent idea, and may we also add that we think this a
much better idea than the suggested gatherings in the
gymnasium; certainly it gets around most of the difficul
_ ties and justified criticisms of the gymnasium idea.

 

“IS HAPPENING NOW”
POSSIBLY the greatest revolution in its history, that of
1776 excepted, is now taking place within the borders
of the United States. Last week the Supreme Court of
the United States declared the A. A. A. unconstitutional.

This meant another tremendous setback to Roosevelt's
_ regime. So far as that goes, the court was acting

within
its jurisdiction, but the trouble has just begun. Talk is
now rampant that the ruling of the Supreme Court should
be ignored. There is plenty of uncertainty now; if this
_ goes through it will mean the end of the present system of
government in the United States and will make the estab: Fascist regime a certainty. Mr. Lewis was
not recounting a far-fetched fair-tale when he wrote, “It
Can’t Happen Here’. The way things are going now it
situation he described will be a certainty.
-_.. One American student tells of a private home where
several students and professors had gathered to discuss
some matter or other of interest to the student body, was
raided and several of the persons were ushered off to jail.
The days of liberty of the subject seem to have come and
one.
: This, we feel, is not a matter for idle speculation, but
of the greatest interest not only to Americans but also to
Canadians. For we can no longer ignore the tremendous
influence which American politics has on Canada and Canadians. May we suggest that student opinion on this matter will be most welcome.

THE NEW GOVERNMENT
a recent issue of the Montreal Daily Star an editorial
expresses cogently and succinctly the many opportunities
facing the new Federal Government in Canada. For the
benefit of student opinion we expresse a few of the statements here: “Business conditions are improving in Canada. It is
no longer impossible to expect a balanced budget or to hope

_ that the burden of relief will be diminished by the natural

processes of re-employment. Even the railways are earning more money.

“But no informed student of Canadian affairs can remain unaware that there are certain basic ills in our
‘financial and economic framework which will not yield to
ordinary recuperative remedies. They demand drastic and
heroic operations. They call not only for wisdom but for
a high order of courage on the part of the various governments, provincial as well as federal.

“The new Federal Government of Canada embraces a
number of clever men fully capable of judging wisely the
causes that are plunging the country to its destruction.

“Will they have the courage of their convictions?
Something will depend, in our opinion, on the obstacles
that they will be called upon to surmount. Will they find
themselves helped forward by a national spirit of co-operation, or will they be confronted by a carping and partizan
Opposition? It will make all the difference in the world.
There is not one of these pressing problems which does not
lend itself dangerously to exploitation by partizan critics
—local grumblers—who are seeking opportunities to embarrass the Ministers and to arouse uninformed sectional
feeling against what be in their very nature heroic measures. On the other hand, good-will all around and an eye
single to national advantage can enable any government to
take political risks and to set national advantage against
sectional sacrifices in justification of strong action.

“The new Government has many things on its side.
Time; a rising tide of national recovery; the apparent return of national recovery; the apparent return of worldan aid to the Federal adminis
_ These problems are of vital interest to every Canadian
time that a solution must
us that fingers will point

ee

iB

DOUGLAS CREASE

| returned.

— —— ee,
ae a ie, ‘i
i y arr ta ‘ey, "

f toy nD Fone

as P. iy ‘ \

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

THE WAR-MONGER |“ALL THINGS RIPEN

His little corner store is smallish
to say the least. It is, I believe, a
grocery and confectionery store,
whirh in this modern age closely
rivals the drug store for the variety
and curiosity of its wares. Display
advertisements worthy of the largest
department store in the country
crowd upon one another to convince
the clientele of the superiority of
Frotho’s Tooth Paste and Cuttem’s
razor blades, not to mention the undeniable certain something which can
be found in Fadeout’s paint for
barns and dance slippers. It is not
a country store, but stands on the
corner downtown in one of this
province’s thriving industrial towns.

The proprietor is of younger middle age and unmarried. A _ local
schoolteacher has her eye on him,
and everyone says they will make a
fine match one of these days. Business is poor. Things aren’t what
they once were, that is to say, things
ane not what he envisioned when he
opened the store some six or seven
years ago. Too young to take part
in the Great War, he was old enough
to admire and envy the heroes who
At the beginning of the
war he had been too young to have
any bosom companions who went
overseas never to return; those who
survived are all he ever knew. He
keeps up a fair front, and has good
connections; but he hasn’t enough
for a family of two, and perahps
three or four. He dreams of the
possibilities if another war should
break out, especially since his standing in thie local non-permanent ranks
would soon bring promotion. His
talk is always of the most recent advices from abroad. Proudly he points
out the shifting scene of battle in
Africa upon a _ gaily-colored map
hanging on the wall of the shop,
flanked by baked beans and epsom
salts, and yet there seems no incongruity. Who will deny that each man
must look out for himself and must
consider first his own future, and
none the less if his days of full earning capacity are becoming visibly
less year by year?

Money is not everything, but at
times it appears well-nigh indispensable. Since the chain store moved
in across the street, competition has
become ever more severe, and there
are times when profits have to be cut
so fine that there is nothing left
after the rent is paid. A major gets
good pay. Not that he would become a major immediately, but it
shouldn’t take long for a man of his
ability and exeperience. Of course
we could never lose. In a few months,
a year at the most, he would come
home victorious, leading his men
down the main street while the bands
played, whistles blew, horns tooted,
his mother watched with streaming
eyes, and his wife-to-be ran along
beside with unconcealed emotion,
proud of her great big mon. Much
better that, you must agree, than to
remain here dissatisfied, waiting for
the sheriff and the landlord, living
from hand to mouth, without a future. Money and success, a holiday
trip to far-off glamorous Africa,
marriage, and a respected position
in the community, who could ask for
more?

Psychologists say much about the
inferiority complex. I wonder if
that is the sort of thing that makes
even the quietest and most peaceloving among us stir to the sound
of martial music? From such music
there comes ‘an association in the
mind with the figure of a leader of
men. Who among us ever pictures
the footsore tommy in the middle of
the rear rank, as he curses everyone, from the* General Staff down
for the bad quatily of the grub and
the miserable pay? There lurks in
my grocery store proprietor a strong
feeling that he is as capable as the
next man if only he had the opportunity, such an opportunity as can
only come with war. Never did he
have a larger command than the
Wild Goose Patrol of the local Boy
Scouts, yet he served valiantly there
and was awarded second prize among
the four patrol leaders in the efficiency contest, which certainly must
indicate a latent ability and superior
force of character. Who can tell?
Perhaps he was born to lead men.
He feels already that he has the
power of life and death in his hands,
as he squares his shoulders and
forms fours with the tiny tins of
tomato soup upon the second shelf.
The bristling plumes of the pine
BUT TO DECAY”

Mr. Mallory was looking at his
daughter’s party. He stood, a Napoleonic figure, his eyes swinging anxiously from one dancer’s face to anothers. His ruddy face was more
than usually flushed and his forehead glistened a little—“those two
are in love but they don’t know it
yet”—he thought and then rebuked
himself, ““You’re sentimental. Too
much wine after dinner’. And he
turned his head quickly, thinking he
heard his wife coming. “I must go
in a minute—Emma says I’m too
rough-looking—and not to be an old
fool gazing maudlinly on youth”. He
found himself again looking at that
young girl—she reminded him of
Molly, the same intelligent but sweet
movement of the head. But his mind
slipped past Molly, as always, “Kmma’s intelligent too—and she was
sweet,” the qualifying instinct that
had been at once his comfort and
his bane forced him to add—and he
laughed at the ironic past tense.

The young girl danced past him
again and her eyes looked straight
into his. He experienced again the
sense of drowning that he had had
years ago when he had first seen
Molly—not at a party, but beside the
woodpile of his father’s farm. He
saw again the awkwardness and the
ease of her bearing, the half-shy
way in which she had told him she
was holding night classes for the
older young people of the village,
and his throat constricted again at
the faint echo of her laugh.
membered those night classes, the
strange white gleam her eyes had as
she talked of the poets—Keats, Shelley, Wordsworth — names meaning
to him—and their poetry meaning
nothing to him. Under the spell of
those eyes he had worked feverishly
memorizing poetry, trying to attune
the tempo of his thoughts to theirs.
But he never appeared to succeed;
Molly would look at him sorrowfully
and reproachfully, but mot for long,
and her eyes would again be sweet.
But he did not understand — he
thought he had failed her—and one
night he left home tramping through
the woods as long as he could, reluctant to leave their friendly protection. Then the first city, the absolute refusal of his body to adjust
itself to changed condition, the days
and weeks in a Salvation Army home
the first job attained by his knowledge of poetry—he used to recite it
to the children where he was staying. Then better position, Emma,
a family. “And now here I am,
looking at my daughter’s party.”

“This is the first time I’ve ever
seen my life spread out before me.
I’m at the end of it,” and his eyes
narrowed in surprise, “and I don’t
feel better or sorry. But I always
thought I did—I lost the woman I
loved—I married a woman who henpecks me. I don’t mind admitting it
—but this is the first time I have
admitted it to myself.” His thoughts
went on; they had the beautiful
freedom of running water. “I don’t
want perfection, just growth. People are wrong—they shouldn’t seek
the perfect, they should seek the
power to see life strong and whole.
I am rounding the cycle of my life.

can see its continuity. I wish
Molly were here—no, I don’t even
wish that.” He had within him a
firm source of strength; he stood

alone and he gloried in it.
elec ee a de a td

apple juice cans march in’ battle
array before him, and he is magnanimous in his curt recognition of
them. His precision in placing those
doughnuts skiows how his mind runs,
and how capable he is of commanding and arranging doughnuts or
doughboys as the case may be. War
for the first time in his life opens
up to him the possibility of exercising his latent genius for command,
and he gladly welcomes it.

“The paths of glory lead but to
the grave,” say I.

“Perhaps so,” would be his answer, “but whither, may I ask, do the
paths of a small town corner grocery
storekeeper lead?”

The League of Nations busies itself with the difficult international
problems facing countries of the
world today; newspapers anr magazines make regular disclousures of
the war profiteering racket; investigations are held in one country or
another in an effort to expose the
propaganda machinery behind wars.
My friend is the concern of each of

He re-|

 

 

 

Friday, January 17, 1936

 

 

 

SOMETHING TO

   

At last the Dalhousie co-eds will
have an opportunity to bring to
the ink-smeared copy-cluttered deshabillé of the printing shop the sophistication, the charm, and the chic
with which they have refreshed the
weary and jaundiced eye of the

male Dalhousian in ball-room and
gymnasium. It is surely a praiseworthy and a courtly gesture on the
part of our editors to succour young
girlhood from the bovine domesticity
suffered by the women of  yesteryear; we may be sure that they will
wield the shears with as much effect upon the obsenities and asininities of the Gazette.

Contributors, as in the past, they
have done upon the worn and the
tattered habiliments of their menfolk. The practical value of any

jauch experiment as an addition to

 

 

A SS SSS

our knowledge is a moot and uncertain point; for should it be the portion of the maidens that their attempt be accompanied with failure,
such result must merely demonstrate
the intellectual vacuity of which
they have long been suspect; while
if their efforts are crowned with success it will merely emphasize what
has long been known to all but our
editors, that the publication of a
paper is a thing easy of accomplishment and best left to females and
those of little wit.

US) &

An avalanche of Italian propaganda justifying the Ethiopian campaign has descended upon the world.
Pamphlets of this kind have even
been sent to the Gazette. The thoroughness of this attempt to gain
world-wide approval and exoneration shows the unprecedented importance of public opinion in directing world events. Unfortunately, the
public, including Dalhousie students,
is not capable of intelligently executing this charge.

People assimilate the opinions of
others, adopt them as their own,
and for this reason and no other will
Stoutly defend them. Even those
beliefs people believe most personal
to them, those on religion and morals, are inherited from the middle
ages when such beliefs were formed
to meet the needs created by circumstances vastly different

from
those of today.

No man can be fit

THINK ABOUT

en

unless he understands the origin of
the reasons he advances for adopting it and the natural prejudices
with which he approaches the subject.
oe as a
Because of the tendency people
have to crystallize their ideas and
standards in a succint phrase or assimilate them with an emblem, unscrupulous people easily turn this
trait to their own advantage. A
party will identify its petty interest
with a universal value or concept.
The employer does not claim the
right to exploit his workers, but to
freedom of contract,

Freedom of the seas becomes an
excuse for imperialism. Abuse of
power is justified on the ground of
peace, order and good government;
and self-seeking politicians hurl the
charge “dictatorship” with all its
suggestiive evils at their opponents.

In the United States big buusiness
answers the regulatory laws of the
Roosevelt regime with accusations of
Fascism, and the opposition attacks
behind the American’s reverence for
the Constitution, and thus a little
knowledge of psychology allows the
evasiou of the real issues of any
problem and insures public support
in the attainment of private interests.

os * *

Under the Neutrality Bill introduced in Congress the President of
the United States must, in case of
war, declare an embargo on arms,
munitions and implements of war
against all belligerents and forbid
American ships to carry munitions
directly or indirectly to them. He
must also extend the embargo to
any new participants and refuse
passports to citizens who intend to
sail on belligerent vessels.

The chief addition to the expiring
Neutrality Resolution is a mandatery clause for an embargo on loans
and credits to all belligerents. In
spite of these provisions the. bill, if
passed, will not be.a guarantee
against the United States being
drawn into a war. The bill is not

‘preventive of wars, for they can only

be prevented through collective action. In view of the strong American isolationist feeling, however,
legislation not inharmonious with
collective action by the rest of the

to form an opinion upon any subject ‘world is better than nothing.

these, although they never think to
call upon him for his opinion. Anxiously he goes his daily round, waiting the call to arms and glory. Ot
such men are wars in the long run
made. I do not blame him; I blame
none; but I am sorry that such a
condition of affairs can exist with.
out any obvius remedy. From his
point of view war offers everything;
a continuance of the present state

of affairs offers nothing. He is one
of many similarly situated, fused
ready for the spark which will arouse
him to heights of glory or to a hero’s
death, at least something for which
he cannot longer hope in eivilian
life. Daily he gazes with ever more
wistful eyes upon the brightly-colored map of Africa between its baked
beans and epsom salts, with a few
tins of bully-beef on the shelf above.

 

 

  

| Buy your overcoat now

Save more than

31

We are clearing our large stock of Overeoats
at prices reduced more than one-third. Buy

SAVE MONEY AT SHANE’S SALE

 

 

 

 

a Coat now for next winter at this great saving.

SPECIAL—An odd lot of Coats left over from
last year pricecd to clear at $10.00.

ALL SUITS, HATS, SHIRTS, ETC.
Reduced More than 20% for this Sale.

Shanes Men's Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 

 

; + i
ree fh

 
ag

     
     
   
 
  

a
a
es

a

i
2

   

“*

    
   
   
   
    

Friday, January 17, 1936

vy |

|

a

r
aa

ep
a ota
, a In keeping with their stand .on
ame teur sport, we suppose that |
ssrs. Gilroy and Marples must
ill hang up their stockings for
anta, put their hats at the foot of
_ the bed for the little Bunnie, and
2 _ wonder how the heck the stork ever
_ carried the five little Diones in that
_ triangular-shaped garment, suspendhe ed from his frail beak.

lat

    
 
  
  

es

oe os
a acd

* * *

When anyone dares to suggest:
_ that an amateur player receives an
_ allowance we think about the chief

na
»

Ss

Of police of a city which we will call
A Xafilah, because that is not the
mame. Some persons.in the city had
ss
y

~~ the nerve to suggest that the Chief

Was «receiving contributions from
those in the city who were, contrary
to law, of course—sice these pleasures are always the nicest—in charge
of the slot machine racket. Naturally, the Chief was indignant and
called for a complete investigation
in order that his good name might
be found unsullied.

, | *

With the Millionaires - Boilermak
ers’ Ball fast approaching, we are
again reminded that there is a Commerce Department at Dalhousie. It
grieves us to see this useful department being treated like the ugly
daughter of the struggling family,
with other daughters considered by
some to be more beautiful. As Prof.

* x

matter.”
being made up, for the most part,

prised that they should hold the

contemplate working after graduation. Perhaps we are wrong as to

Many of these gentlemen have
reached their present high positions
in the business world through their
own efforts, through hard work and
persistence, and so _ possibly hold
that all college educaiicn is time

 

cree on eet acme 
3 HAVE

|long dead,

~ Bennet says, “beauty is a relative |
The Board of Governors |

of business men, we are rather sur-|

view that lectures upon commercial
subjects are valueless for those who

wasted for those who intend to earn |

The PRATTLER

their living in commercial pursuits.
If we assume that one of these gentlemen desired to add to his staff
and, for one reason or another, had
to select from a college graduate,
we suspect that he would prefer to

have a man who had a slight smattering of commerce and economics
to that chappie who is on speaking
terms with Horace, Cicero and others
and who calls his dog
Rex and not the plebian King.

We do not wish to belittle the
value of such things as Latin and
Greek; they have their value and
use. At least a scholar can read his
diploma. Further, for the person
who wishes to teach, become a minister of the Gospel or enjoy the
wealth accumulated by his or her
fond parent, a classical education is
of value. Likewise, to the person
who intends to sell insurance or
bonds, or enter the bank or any
other commercial enterprise, classes
in commerce are of some value. It
must be remembered that somebody

has to attend to the practical things remember that far back?) and were

of life.

The value of classes in Commerce | They are far ahead of the rest of the
must have been evident to the Hon. | University in that they haven’t any

W. A. Black when he endowed the
Chair of Commerce. A _ practical
business man of his calibre would
not give money for the teaching of
valueless classics. To softpedal the
Commerce department is nothing
more than to insult the intelligence
of that great gentleman who gave
so generously—and to belittle his
generosity.

 

We are awed by the number of
people who are committing matrimony these days. Is this a sign of

their views, but it seems to us that | returning prosperity or the lull after
Commerce is being frozen out even’
in this comparatively mild winter.’

an exciting summer—a_ precautionary move to escape the first draft
for service in the lesson to be given
that certain European dictator? Perhaps we are wrong—maybe they

have been actuated by the words of
ithe Apostle Paul as found in I Cor-| whenever it feels like it.

inthians vii, 9, “It is better to marry
than burn.”

ala Me Aol A LOLS be

MIDNIGHT OIL AND STILL
A PILE OF WORK

wee |6CAHEAD OF YOU......

‘=
Pe
ZZ

 

“~

eae =e oe

 

THE

— — . =
pa ete aS
A

oe

a

ie

 
  
        

BEST

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Education Notes

Once in a while, that small but
self-important group, the Education
department, feel that they ought to
make themselves known around the
campus. Having basked in the artificial sun of the undergraduate world
for four years, they are unable to
make such a pretentious display as
their more fortunate brethren in
Law and Medicine, and consequently
hide their superiority in insignifi
TAKE YOUR

EDICINE

ON WITH THE SHOW

T. Y. M. takes you with him to
witness the outstanding show of the
week. For your edification he will
reveal exactly the settings for his
meanderings. Herewith T. Y. M. discloses all in a manner in which he
hopes will please his readers.

cance, holding, through no fault of Ls
their own, little communication with Doc Roy is our master of cerethe larger section of the College of |monies. He gives the word and

we’re off. First, we take you to the
smoke-festered room at 80 South
Park street. The telephone rings.
What’s this? Wishart requests
Hogan and Embree to be on their
way immediately for a transfusion
at the V. G. But they dare not
leave: the game must go on. Let
us see what manner of game this
may be, so important as to supercede the opportunity of ministering
aid to the sick and incidentally making $10 for oneself. Indeed, it’s the
tryout for the Phi Chi’s team to
meet all comers, and there are sufficient doubters as to the supremacy.
* *

which they are, in reality, a part.
Yet, within this group transpires,
we suppose, nearly all of those vicissitudes in student life which are more
apparent in the larger departments
of the University because of the
larger numbers of the latter. And
so, at the risk of being quietly but
firmly kicked around in the manner
so well known to those teachers in
embryo, we venture to make known
in one way or another some of the
things that go on behind the green
shutters of the Murray Homestead.
We visited the Education room before the Christmas holidays started,
when everybody was apparently
studying for exams. (How can we

*

Just around the corner at the Phi
Delta Epsilon, Portnay, Green, Klein
et al are determined to bring back
to their house the honor that goes
with a winning team. They shall
not fail! They must not fail!

amazed at the informal attitude that
those studes had toward their work.

Their senior brethren at the T. B.
Hospital are content to stand on
their laurels, highly confident that
their efforts before Christmas will
guide them to an easy victory. Here
Perea, Wishart, Krebs and Leventhal have enlisted the aid of the
male nurse and feel sure that the
honor of the seniors shall be sustained. Phi Rho, in an interview,
declined to disclose their plans, but
Barnhill’s snicker foretold that the
underdog in the contest might yet
emerge victorious.

desks and things to annoy them.
They informed us that they just sit
around the table and talk about
things. We almost felt tempted to
ask, “What, no beer?” but through
sheer politeness refrained.

Great notices stared at us from
the walls and the blackboard was
covered with things like “engram
complex” and “Wabash Blues”. We
haven’t yet been able to account for
the latter. From the postures and
actions of the people there we were
inclined to go home and write “Ten
Nights in>a Barroom” over again,
but we were stopped by a vicious
tinkling o a bell, and thinking it
time for next class we rushed out.
Only since we have found out that
the noise came from a queer sort of
clock that does that sort of thing

All of which might be true, yet
T. Y. M. is inclined to favor Perea
and his gang, because determination
will win out, and Perea is determined to have the championship well
salted when he returns to Puerto
Rica to re-exchange rings with one
who waits for him. It’s not ostcology, boys—it’s poker, to be sure.

a ee thee

Ed *

Can Any One Tell Us:

Why Bill Mackey want a dime returned from the quarter he contributed to a certain worthy cause before Christmas ?

Whether Isabel has received a visit
from Carlo yet this term?

If Patty Locke has succeeded in
getting the middle valve down yet?

Why our young hockey player has
suddenly become interested in the
S. C. M.?

If Prof. Fletcher still thinks Halifax is so near the North Pole?

Why Tony is so interested in child
psychology ?

Where do the Ed. class go on Fri
day afternoons?
*

#

The “music goes round and round”,
Round two is coming up. The scene
shifts. Bob Barnstead and Leo Green
are arguing on the merits of Boston
(the Bean City). “I’ve been there,”
says Leo, and to prove the veracity
of his statement demonstrates to
DuBilier, the class, Dr. H. K. MacDonald and a neophyte in the realms
of St. Peter, the potentialities of
that fair metropolis. Barnstead tells
of another and more aphrodite incident: of his visit to Boston and of
the feminine pulchritude which it
possesses. “She’s got it,” says he,
and we think she’s got him, too.

The winnah?
good as ours.

*

Your guess is as

* *

We call the attention of anyone
interested to the following notice:

Wanted—A dealer in second-hand
furniture to cure a severe case of
the “croup”.

We think you’d find the accommodations at the Nova Scotian very
nice, Gladys.

*
.

And time staggers on. Del and
Bob leaving the hall; George Murphy and Fran Martell calling it a
night with few, few words at the
entrance of that enchanted castle.

Again, the setting changes. Scene:
Balcony of the Capitol Theatre. The
sun has set, and lurking in the
shadow of ‘“Wolfe’s Landing at
Louisburg” are two familiar figures.
Propinquity will tell us more. It is
Helen and Dave Morris. Dave
quite peeved at what happened to
Helen in Indiana. T.Y. M. continues
on his way ever wondering, ever
seeking.

*
.

EEE

Before we close, we can’t pass up
the opportunity to tell you of the
sad plight of one bright Education
boy. It seems that he sent to Ottawa for some pamphlets on _ the
apple industry, and was very surprised when they sent him a cook
book. .

Why don’t you bring it out some
Friday afternoon, Tom? The girls
might get a few hints from it.

1S

Scene: St. Mary’s dance salon,
Saturday night. Earle Grant and
George Young, male descendants of
old Hypocrates, tripping the light
(?) fantastic with daughters of
Florence Nightingale.

Says Earle: “What can I call you,
my sweet?” .

Says she: “Nertz to you, my dove.”

 

 
   
  

Birks-
Pens and pencils for
ready and faithful
service, may be

 
     
     
       
    

a ia

The next scene centers about our
Frosh and Sophs.. The former, we
are told, are still dazed with their
belated results, and therefore will be
spared. The latter have just passed
another milestone and are qualified
to advise the Frosh with “spare the
cod and spoil the child’s chances
against rickets.”

found at Birks’ pen
counter.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

We hope they were successful in
their Bio-Chemistry examination and
| capeaaiad hope that the parties at the
fraternity houses were thoroughly

SS SS SSS
—_ nnn

jah pI

To the Co-eds

After perusing the prattle of the
“Prattler” and “Taking Our Medicine”, the co-ed decided to speak.
(Quite unusual for the Dalhousie
femme).

*

This, although the title may deceive, will be of interest to the masterful male in so far as it will record just what the co-ed see, hears,
and thinks—if she actually does.

* * *

* *

Those big and important Meds,
instead of giving the Studleyites
their support and prestige (7?) have
abandoned the big college basketball
game for an exclusive Medical Society meeting—a professional huddle
for themselves only.

ee a

Don’t you think that wire fences
are nasty, when they trip our dramatic junior, causing her to lose
that ’school-girl complexion”, to say
nothing of her dignity and the knees

of her stockings?
f

Girls! A discovery! A mirror has
been invented whereby make-up can
be put on in the daylight so that
the effect will be as under artificial
light (this excludes the moon), and
vice-versa. What a break for those

who go early and come back late.

oe aie

What certain something has Al
Sprague that he can go around with |
Hal Connor steadily. Let us in on
the secret, Al. Just write in care of
this paper.

* *

How to get your housework done
efficiently and entertainingly, call
Sten Sterns, head of the drying
(dishes) squad, and his able assistant, Roland Hurst.

*

 

* *
* a

We must here record also all the
current romances—not such ancient
history as Helen and Ted, Betty and
Ritchie, or Ruth and Jack, but such
big romances as Bill Stevens and
... the biggest and newest love interest of the year.

enjoyed last night. T.Y.M. marches

on,

* * *

We wonder :—

Whether Ed Barnhill is as competent with the affairs of the D. A.
A, C. as he is with the lassy fair
from Point Tormentine ?

Was there anything besides a blush
to mark the collision at Chocolate
Lake? Carl Stoddard might venture
a guess.

What made Webster so stiff he
couldn’t appear for class last Thursday night? Look out, Douglas. Another chronic Venus expert is sharing your distinction.

Who couldn’t take his medicine at
a clinic last Saturday?

Who was the upstart that forwarded a letter to T. Y. M., addressed to A. Y. N.? Why he asked who
the great Canadian quoted last week
was? Whether he doubts that T. Y.
M. is a great Canadian?

Why Sam Rosenberg hurried so)
much to attend Dr. Atlee’s clinic?
There must be something in holding
hands with the great.

Which two women phoned at
Helen’s residence? And why Chester Stewart feels qualified to get an
operator’s position with the Maritime Telephone Company?

Whether Dr. Noble realizes that
the third year Med class does not
expect any bargains, and whether or
not he knows the time table?

Does T. Y. M. stand for Third
Year Medicine?

Why all the profs look so drowsy
the morning after a committee
studies meeting?

What Irvin and MacKintosh enjoyed so much in Antigonish, so
many miles from home?

What Dr. Dryer feels so gratified
about when a bunch of judicious
sophs applauded his lecture—or did
they ?

Whether Enid Johnson told all
that happened in Indiana at Sunday night’s lecture?

Why Howell, the Frosh Fred Astaine, couldn’t dance through the
crowd Saturday night like he danced
through his Christmas exams?

Why Bill Embree tore up those
radiology notes?

Why more students don’t avail
themselves of the opportunity to do
“dirt” by their pals and send news
briefs to T. Y. M. through the
Gazette mail-box at the Forrest
Building ?

on

a stealing ie geen: et

 

     
   
     

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.” _,

Lancet

 
  
   
 

he
SWEET
CAPORAL

CIGARETTES

 

aA

 

PINE HILL
PEN PRICKS

Reports of the recent conferences
held in Indianapolis by the S. C. M.
and the S. V. M. were given before
our student body by messrs. Roy
Webster, Don Robb and Earl Fraser
on Tuesday of this week. Our Dean,
Prof. Thomson presided at a well
attended meeting, and the reports
were much appreciated. The three
different aspects provided by the
speakers combined to give a very
representative idea of the Conference.

 

At a meeting held last week the
student body decided that the annual
“At-Home” should be held on the
fourteenth of February. This decision was arrived at in spite of the
seemingly pointless protests of one
of the students that the date was
scarcely suitable for such an occasion. What could he have had in
mind?

Although this one is rather dated
by this time, we feel that it should
not pass unnoticed. We refer to one
of Kennedy’s Christmas presents.
Tio approach the subject as delicately
as possible, may we say that the
article of clothing in question is invariably discussed in the plural and
in subdued whispers. Since he was
good enough to honour us with his
confidence, however, we have diecided
that the matter needs more. publicity
than it has hitherto obtained. What
really amazed us about this appare
was the brevity of the area which it
seemed possible that it could cover.
Did the thoughtful sender give any
indication to whether she was
looking backwards or forwards.

There is a story told of a certain
young man, who, on being congratulated by an even more certain young
lady, so far forgot himself as to use
language of Popeye, and to tell her
in less polite language to kiss an
individual f that species which is
said to furnish the major part of an
Englishman’gs breakfast. And she
did!

as

DON’T FORGET
UNIVERSITY NITE!

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.
21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

 
  
 
     

tienda a

 

‘

 

 

 

Dal Tigers Suffer
First Hockey Defeat
Of Season at Forum

 

All good things must come to an) the outstretched body of MacLellan
end thus Dal’s winning streak which | to put the Clubmen one in the lead.

extended through six consecutive
league games was shattered recently. The boys played their hardest but their passing plays refused
to click and they down fighting
gamely to a vastly improved Wanderers team by the score of 4-1. As
was the case in the two previous encounters between these traditional
rivals, the game was cleanly played,
only two penalties being handed out.

Early in the first period Bruce
Fleming lifted Pender’s pass over

Dal Tigers Swamp
Farmers 13-5

By snowing Farmer’s under by the
score of 13-5, Dal Tigers, last week
established a scoring record for
Senior Hockey in Halifax. Eddie
Cohn, Tiger’s first string centre,
gathered nine scoring points, made
up of six goals and three assists, and
now heads the League in scoring
points, closely followed by DeWolfe

Flashing a wide open lightning
quick attack with which Farmer’s
were never able to cope, the collegians swept on to’their sixth straight
game without a defeat. When the
Milkmen did succeed in getting near
the Dal net, Bobby MacLellan turned
in a nice exhibition between the uprights to turn back most of the
shots.

‘DAL ON WARPATH

Dal went on the warpath from the
opening gong and sent a barrage of
rubber at Hills in the Farmer’s cage.
The period had just started when
Graham circled the Farmer’s cage
and scored. The same player added
his second goal about thirty seconds
later on a hard shot from a mix-up,
taking a short pass from Cohn.
Cohn then worked his way through
a maze of players and chalked up
the third goal on a solo effort. The
Tiger’s second line entered the scoring column when Corston beat Hills
on a pass from Mullane. Graham

DON’T FORGET
UNIVERSITY NITE!

GAUVIN

AND

 

GENTZEL

Photographers to

DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing

|
and Graham.

In the second period Wanderers increased their lead with goals by
Meagher and Fleming. Play was
ragged throughout, bad ice hindering
many passing plays. The Tigers
played a five man offensive in the
third period but could only score
once, when Cohn scored on MacGregor’s assist. Pender put the
game on ice for the Wanderers when
he broke away and blazed a hard
shot, on which MacLellan never had
a chance.

notched up his third goal of the
period on a pass from Cohn and Cohn
sagged the draperies a minute later
when he grabbed DeWolfe’s pass and
slammed a shot into the cage. With
the score 6-0 in favor of Dal. Walter
Young scored a nice goal for Farmer’s on a gang attack.

STILL MORE GOALS

Goals, goals and more goals was
the cry during the second canto,
when the teams divided eight markers evenly between them. Dal again
started the fireworks when Cohn
found the net on a pass from MacGregor. Farmer’s came to life and
scored two goals to put some interest in the game. DeWolfe came
right back to score on a long shot
which fooled Hills. Farmer’s gathered their two final goals in this
perid when Hartlen and Patterson
scored pretty goals.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Sports on Parade

(By the SPORTS EDITOR)

The Dalhousie hockey team is asserting itself so forcibly
that critics are calling the collegians score crazy. Their brilliant win over the full-strength Farmers team indubitably gives
Dalhousie the edge over all members of the league.

Individual scoring seems a major feature in the games. It
was child’s play for Red Graham to tally two goals, almost at
will, within thirty seconds of each other. Ed Cohen did not
wish to be slighted, so he chalked up six goals. The final score
sounded like that of a football match—13 to 5.

££. eee

In seeking an explanation for this relentless march to near
the top of the league, credit was placed on Ernie Mosher—our
short-lived coach—but in his absence the Dal hockey team apparently is working wonders. Entire credit is more appropriately due to their own efforts.

If student forums can awaken so much latent spirit in a
group of players, then, preceding the beginning of scheduled
play for each major sport, why can’t some sort of meeting be
held where vindication of the team can be considered, forcing
the team to justify its right to represent the college.

Unfortunately, bad ice and a lax spirit helped Dal to experience her first defeat last Monday at the hands of the Wanderers—4 to 1.

* * *

The basketball roster, as announced by Mr. Sterling and
Manager MacKiegan, suggested that Dalhousie has an abundance of guards. With so many able basket-protectors holding
down guard and forward positions, it should be difficult for
opposing teams to ring up high scores. Man-to-man basketball
will evidently be used exclusively in the league this season—a

fast-moving, smart brand of ball that should keep every player
on his toes.
ME HE Bd

_The Bar Harbour game has been scheduled at an inconvenient date to provide any form of criticism of Dal’s stand
against them in this issue of the Gazette.

It will probably be the fastest game ever played on our
court, except for the brilliant showing made by the Patrick
team in the quarter-final play in 1934. Every loyal collegian
should have seen the game last night. In all due respect to our
Alma Mater, the visitors are highly favored to win.

 

Wolfe combined to Se, ae es Pen Pictures of Puck Chasers

more goals in this period.

Going into the third period trail-|

ing 10-5, Farmer’s risked all in a
five man offensive which proved
costly ag the Tigers were laying

back and taking advantage of every! faculty hockey for Law. Is a wiz
break. Only niece goal-tending by
Hills prevented the Tigers from
scoring more than three goals in this
period. DeWolfe got the first with
a backhand shot from close in and
Cohn scored the second on Carroll’s
rebound. Cohn scored the final goal
on a pretty solo effort.

The Tigers playing offensive hockey all the way, gave their best
display f£ the season and proved they
have the most powerful scoring
punch in the league. Hartlen, Patterson and oung were the pick of
the Losers while Cohn, Graham and
DeWolfe stood out brilliantly in the
Dal Attack.

WORLD OUTLOOK—

(Continued from Page One)

that economic revolution means the
invasion of Fascism into Soviet
Russia.

OIL SANCTIONS.

Oil sanctions have shown one
fortunate thing: the power of nations is no longer dependent on
military forces. The country
having the most resources is the
most powerful one. And it is fortunate that the world’s great resources are in the hands of two
peace-loving peoples — those of
Great Britain and the United
States. The fact that power lies

in resources, rules out Germany
and Italy as great powers, said
Sir Alfred.

The speaker concluded by stating
that dealing with Mussolini or Hitler alone will not help the situation.
“Let us get together in a constructive program and show that aggression does not pay. Let us go forward to provide a durable basis for
our human civilization.”

Service

See Our Pictorial
~ Work for Gifts

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B-6992

 

——

 

 

 

Bob MacLellan, goalie, age 22,; Academy. This is his second year

makes Truro his home. This is| with Dal. Jim is becoming a terror
Bob’s first year in the nets for Dal. | to opposing defensemen.
Prior to this he starred in Inter- * * &

“Pooh” DeWolfe, left wing on first
line, age 23, hails from Oxford, N. S.
Pooh is a future lawyer and is now
in hig first year Law. Was former
Acadia star in Football and Hockey.
Pooh’s fast skating along with his
stickhandling and experience makes
him the most valuable man on the
team. Pooh is among the leading
scorers in the league.

ok * ik

ard on close in shots that look impossible to save. He was manager of
the football team last year.

x * *

Howie Prat, goalie, age 23, Bridgetown. Howie took his B.A. Degree
last year and is now studying Education. Was star goalie for Kings
in Intercollegiate hockey for the past
three years. His steady goal-tending |

is a great asset to the team.

Se ae | Jack Buckley, Captain, centre, age

Johnny Carroll, left defense, ue
20. Johnny is playing manager and
doing a fine job of it. Will receive
his B.A. degree this spring. Played
with St. Mary’s before coming here.
OGomes from Halifax and is his third
year with the Tigers.

co * ok

Don MacGregor, right defense,
age 19, Halifax. Don ‘is a Freshman
this year and headed for a B.A. degree. Formerly played hockey with
H. C. A. and K. C. 8S. Don is one of
the fastest breaking defensemen in
the league and is well up among the

Law.

Hockey and Football. Is third year
with Bengals, coached them last
year. Jack’s playmaking makes him
valuable to Dal.
ss * *
Pat Patton,
Montreal.

left wing, age 22,

 

MeGill Juniors. This is his second
year with Dal. Pat’s fast skating
makes him an able back checker.

i a

aioners. Johnny Mullane, right wing, age
x ok x 20, Halifax. Johnny is in second
Eddie Cohn, first string centre.|year Pre-Law. Played his former

hockey with St. Mary’s High School
and Intercollegiate teams. This is
his second year with Dal. Johnny’s
sists in one game. Taking a Com-! specialty iis back checking, rarely
merce course and will graduate next | letting his man get away from him.
year. Formerly played with H.C.A. vse

and with Junior Canadiens, N. S.| George (Duke) Corston,

age 21, Halifax. Eddie is just about
the most effective man in the league.
Recently got six goals and three as
centre,

Champions. Eddie is League’s leading scorer and point getter and has
best poke-check in league.
third year with Dal.
* * “*"

Jimmie Graham, right wing on
the first line, age 21, formerly from
Truro but now lives in Halifax. Jim
is in his second Pre-Med. He has a
bullet like shot which is about the
best in the league. Before coming

to Dal, Jim starred with Colchester

Is his |

 

age 19, Halifax. George is a newcomer this year, taking an Arts degree. For the last three years
starred with H.C.A. in Halifax High
School league. Also played Junior
hockey with Halifax Crescents. His
tricky stickhandling makes him a
scoring threat at all times. His solo
goal against Sunocos last week gave
them their first defeat of the season.

* * *

Pete Stanfield, left wing, age 20,

   

~~ SSS SSS SSS

25, Halifax. Jack is in second year | covered Pete is out to show that his
Previus to this year he has|stickhandling and team play deserve
played with Acadia and Loyola in,@ place on the team.

 

Pat is in 2nd year Pre-|illness. His place will be hard to fill
Med and formerly played with the|@s he was a capable performer.

|

Friday, January 17, 1936

 
 

STUDENTS GIVE—
(Continued from Page One)
Hopelessly in Pain

Edith Blair—Arts student—“I’m
certainly for it. Everybody knows
of some case where a person hopelessly in pain wishes to be relieved.
The liberalizing effect of time on
religion will bring it about.”

Not Aware
Toby Beeber — Med. student —
“There is no need for change in the
law. A person suffering pain today
under proper treatment need not be
mentally aware of it.”

Fought For Life

Dr. Benge Atlee—Medical practitioner and lecturer—‘I have fought
to the last ditch and shall continue
to do so. But it strikes me those Ea a
against euthanasia are not consistent ct ee
in their views. They emphasize the
sacredness of human life, yet a large
group of these people would be willing to go to war which would wipe
ut not merely those practically dead
but also the flower of youth.” Let
those who value life lightly, devote
themselves to the problem of automobiles, slums and war.”

Radical Plan

Ike Mercer—Law Librarian—‘The
British Houses of Parliament ané¢
Lords are very conservative bodies
The idea of euthanasia is very radical: the two cannot be reconciled.

 

M/
A 4
SPE

EF

o
rts
C

BUCKING

20 for 20'- 25 fer 25¢-50 fr 50%
IGARETTES

Inevitable

Mrs. John Willis— Former Med S
Librarian--“Its coming is inevitable.”

 

past several years. Harry can al
Would Not Work oH ated ee Ae
|'ways be depended upon
Curly Sacten—Med student—“The | ’ I p Oo turn 1n
a good game.

medical profession is large. There |

 

* * *
are bound to be some who would | :
; ; | Frederick (Red, Sparrw, Alto),
misuse such license. It could never |,, : ‘ bi
Payne, trainer, age ?, Halifax.

ly.”’ .
work safely |Red’s fame is known throughout

Dal and Halifax. Is indispensible
as trainer and equipment manager.
Red’s virtues are his quiet voiee and
ability to hand out cigars; his deftness as a scandal-monger, his virtue
of exaggeration, and in general his
reputation as general nuisance, and
last but not least his obsequious diplomacy. Red will be best remembered for forgetting the football
uniform in that memorable season
of 1935—He still claims that’s why
Dal won .

Death is Relief

Ben Dubilier—Med student, interne
at mental diseases hospital—There
are cases where death is a relief ta
patient and staff.

Going Too Far

Harold Wright—Theological student. “The ministry is in favor of
stopping pain wherever posible, but
the taking of life is going too far.
Life is sacred.”

Truro. Pete is studying Engineering.
Formerly played with Ashbury. This
is his second year with Dal. An in-|
jury at the first of the year kept
Pete from seeing action. Fully re
 

ae

Charles (Bus) Walker, left wing,
age 22, Digby. Bus is an Engineering student. Has starred with Digby
and Annapolis for past several years
Has been forced to retire through

*% a aK
Harry Smith, left wing, age 19,

Select Your
Halifax. Harry is in Freshman Arts |},
this year. Played with H.C.A. in SPORTS |

 

 

 

Halifax High School League for||}| EQUIPMENT
sl capeensadijig ai iigantiianipgalicnnntipsntiedinaiinn=iineiadsnmamnasaes at
| |
CASINO||| PHINNEYS |
|
Starting Saturday, Jan 18th | Basketball
“THE LAST DAYS ||] Beaminton

Skates, Shoes

OF POMPII

  
   

with
PRESTON FOSTER
ALLAN HALE
BASIL RATHBONE

* * *

EXTRAS!
“KEYSTONE HOTEL”
Starring the Pie-throwing
Keystone Cops.

“PITCAIRN ISLAND
TODAY”

 

‘CAPITOL

ON THE SCREEN ...

| poe GATE ”

«<

with
JACK OAKIE JOE PENNER
FRANCES LANGFORD

NED SPARKS

 

 

YOU MUST COME OVER!
ALL THE BOYS AND GIRLS WILL BE THERE.

Some of the Boys are going to TRY to Ride “DIXIE”.

Present Your Students’ Council Card at the Box Office.
TEN CENTS OFF FORTY CENT TICKETS.

 

 

UNIVERSITY NIGHT _ »

ON THE STAGE...

‘TICE’S SOCIETY CIRCUS
with
“DIXIE”, THE HIGH-SCHOOL MULE
15 PERFORMING DOGS
“JARGO”, THE ELEPHANT

| Hockey Supplies

Boxing Gloves

‘hinney

456 - 460 Barrington St.

 

 

MONDAY

NIGHT at 7 and 9

 

 

iq a

ie Pa

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
   
    
   
    
   
   
