 

  

Dalhousie

Mourns

  

  

7]

£64

 

 

VOL. LXVI.

 

 

—

Memories

On this lamentable occasion
the Gazette reprints an address
delivered to His Late Majesty
King George V. when he honored our University by a personal
visit on his tour through Canada in 1901.

These documents are highly
treasured and securely kept in
the vault of the University and
we render many thanks to President Stanley for his kind permission te reprint them for the
benefit of the students.

 

OCTOBER 19th, 1901.

To His Royal Highness George
Frederick Ernest Albert, Duke of
Cornwall and York, Duke of Rothesay, Prince of Saxe Coburg and
Gotha, and Duke of Saxony; Earl
of Carrich and Inverness, Baron of
Renfrew and Killarney, Lord of the
Isles and Great Steward of Scotland,
K.G.)) P.c., K.T.,; K.P., G.C.M.G.,
G.C.V.O., LLD., D.C.L.; &., &c.

May it please Your Royal Highness:

We, His Majesty’s dutiful and devoted subjects, the Governors and
Senators of the University of Dalhousie, beg leave to approach Your
Royal Highness as the Representative of His Majesty the King and
Heir Apparent to the British Throne,
with sentiments of the most profound respect and esteem and to conyey through you to our most Gracious Sovereign our warmest expressions of affection and loyalty.

We desire to extend to you and
to Her Royal Highness the Duchess
of Cornwall and York our most
hearty congratulations and a most
cordial welcome upon this the occasion of your visit to Halifax, the
seat of our University.

We confidently believe that the

Tour of Your Royal Highness
throughout those portions of the
British Empire lying beyond the

seas will serve to accentuate those
magnificent and tangible evidences
of Imperial Unity which have been
shown forth to the world during the
past two years.

We have noted with the greatest
satisfaction the deep interest manifested by Your Royal Higness in the
educational institutions of other portions of the British Empire which
you have visited; we trust, therefore, that it will be gratifying to
Your Royal Highness to learn that
the University of Dalhousie is doing
a great work for Higher Education
in the Maritime Provinces of Canada.

It was founded by Lord Dalhousie,
the representative of the King of
Great Britain and Ireland here, and
it crowns the system of Public Education free to all the people.

We beg to add our earnest and
fervent prayer that the blesssings of
Divine Providence may be showered
upon you, that you may be restored
in safety to the Home Land and that
you may long be spared in the high
position which you have been called
to occupy.

Signed at Halifax, Nova Scotia,
this 30th day of September, in the
year of our Lord one thousand nine
hundred and one in behalf of the
Governors and Senate of the University of Dalhousie.

(Sgd.) JOHN F. STAIRS,
Chairman, Board of Governors.

 

—_—- oo OO OOO CC -CO OOO ———

  
 
  

BY THE SEA ~

~~ =

 

ne

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 24, 1936

———

 

 

HIS LATE MAJESTY GEORG

 

 

 

so

E THE FIFTH

 

WE JOIN WITH THE WORLD IN SORROW

 

MONDAY, January the 20th, 1936, will be a day recorded

in the annals of history as one of great sorrow and
regret to the whole world. It marks the death of His Majesty
King George V. Neither England alone, nor the British

Empire, but the whole world mourns the loss of the greatest
figure in world history since 1910.

His reign was singular in that it marked the beginning
of a new era not only in scientific advancement but particularly in that its advent brought with it a new conception of
politics, the greatest war in the history of the world, the
most advanced attempt to bring about world peace—the

|

|

 

League of Nations—the downfall of monarchies and the rise
of dictatorships.

It is of peculiar significance that the British Empire in
these times of disintegration has become more firmly united
than ever before; the reason can be traced to one source only:
our late monarch, George V. He took a particular interest
in each and every part of the far-flung Empire, both before
and after his ascension to the throne. His visits to Canada
did more to strengthen the tie between Britain and Canada
than any other factor in political history.

(Continued on Page Two)

aeett

 

Dalhousie

Mourns

 

 

No.

13

DALHOUSIANS MOURN THE DEATH
OF THEIR BELOVED SOVEREIGN

 

 

Memories

The reply is simple, strightforward and sincere, characteristics which endeared his late
Majesty to his subjects. But
more important it shows the
| serious attitude the late King
| took towards education, and

throughout his reign it was his

ideal to foster and improve
advances in educational met| hods. This is of peculiar inter| est to Dalhousians, because of
| the recognition afforded the
University by his visit in 1901.

| Gentlemen:

Our pleasure in coming amongst
you is tinged with the regret that
we are on the eve of departure from
the great country, where, during the
five weeks of our stay, we have received so hearty and generous a hospitality, and found so many kind
friends.

Bearing in mind the many happy
|days which I have spent in your
| province, I am particularly pleased
ito find myself here again, and that
on this occasion the Duchess is with

 

| me.

It is perhaps fitting that we should
take leave of Canada in the province
that the first which the
| British flag waved
full of moving chequered historical

was over

a province so

memories—and that embarking from
your Capital, which stands unrivalled
among the naval ports of the world,
we should pass through waters that
|are celebrated in the annals of our
|glorious Navy.

I am glad to gather from the Address of the University of Dalhousie
that in the that material
prosperity you happily enjoy, you

.

midst of

have not neglected the interests of
You

nothing is so essential to the

Higher Education. recognize
that
advancement of a people as adequate
| provision for a training which will
keep the coming generation abreast
of the march of intellectual progress
and scientific knowledge.

We share in your regrets as to the
| shortness of our stay, which will prevent us from judging for ourselves
of the
other resources for which your prov
great mineral wealth and

ince is famed. We trust that the development of these resources already
attained is but an earnest of a still
| greater future.

| Im bidding you farewell we wish

| to make known how greatly we have
| been impressed by the affectionate
sympathy with which we have been
received by the people of the Dominion—and pray that the Divine blessing may rest upon them
and theirs, and upon those in whose

we

hands is placed the guidance of its
destinies. GEORGE.

NOTICE

The University will be closed
on Tuesday, January 28th, the
day of the funeral of His Late
Majesty, King George V.

This will enable members of
the University to attend services
which will be held in
churches in Halifax.

The University, in

 

 

various

common

with all Canadian citizens, will
observe the period of mourning.

CARLETON STANLEY,
President.

 

 

 
  

- lo

 

 

Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. S.
EDITORIAL STAFF

 
 

. : e

& N. GREEN eer IRVING PINK
1 _ B. 4148 B. 2442
eg Managing News Editor
re ; melo’ News Editor
ee JOHN TRACY
a | L856
b Assistants
Be LEN KITZ EDITH BLAIR BILL SUTHERLAND
| Soci i i ts Editor
| . Editor Literary Editor Spor
} ern Gea ELISABETH BALLEM BEN DuBILIER
| . B. 2148 Staff Artist L. 3341

| a C. F. BENTLEY he, fA

‘Business Manag ssistan

T
Ea + pred i ie DOUGLAS CREASE
B56 487 B. 5737

Ce
The Gazette takes this opportunity of thanking those whose

: assistance made possible this special issue. Mention might be made

4 of President Stanley, Dr. A. S. MacKenzie, Miss L. Henry, J. R. H.

Sutherland, the Halifax Herald and the Halifax Chronicle.

KIPLING

THE poet of Empire is an appellation well earned by the
late Rudyard Kipling. He was peculiarly of his ane
and has left to posterity a written picture of life in t :
latter nineteenth and early twentieth century. He cee
not so much the outward life as the spirit behind that : e.
The Empire as it grew from the days when Canada, a
example, was formed from a group of insignificant Nort
American colonies until the days of the Statute of Westminster. Was not that Kipling’s Empire, which he knew
well and loved so dearly.
| ei It was the spirit animating the life in this Empire
which infused his writings, whether he told of the doings
of Stalky and his companions, or took his reader through
the lice and filth of native India, or pictured foggy Halifax,
“the Warden of the honour of the North’. __
| Withal it was a very wholesome spirit which pervaded
his writings, prose and verse. While he may be denied the
| | title of great poet by succeeding generations, he will continue to be read for the sheer simplicity and homeliness of
| his style. Of Kipling it may well be said that he mirrors
to his reader the sort of man he would like to be, and, for
the moment, feels himself to be; and it is a tribute to this
ability that some have said, “he writes for a ten-year-old”.
| The very childlike faith which the average British has
Boss in his Empire, and in the outcome of affairs of life gener| ally, is reflected in Kipling’s writings. N evertheless, Kipling, too, was the man who could foresee during such an
occasion as the Diamond Jubilee that the Empire, in order
a. to maintain its self-respect and to preserve itself from the
'- . fate of the ancient empires, must never lose sight of the
God to Whom all tribute for any meagre success of man
was due. One of the finest thoughts anywhere in Kipling
is the prayer for the Empire contained in the Recessional:
“Lord God of hosts, be with us yet,
' Lest we forget, lest we forget.”

 

VANDALISM IN THE GYMNASIUM

COMPAINTS have been rampant during the past few

weeks regarding the conduct of students in the small
gymnasium. The matter has now reached a stage where
the Gym Committee has practically decided to debar students from further use of this part of the building.

It is a paradoxical state of affairs when students the
age of most men who use this gymnasium must act as little
children ad cause great damage to the property, which is
not their own and which Dalhousie has been good enough

| to allow them the use of.
| As is the usual case, this is not the fault of all who use
j the little gym. But as is also usual, everybody must suffer
ae for the ungrateful acts of a few “children” who think that
fu when they throw a dumbell at a friend of theirs and as a
consequence break some valuable piece of property, they
are acting cleverly.

It is nearly time that the names of the guilty persons
: are divulged, so that a few people around Dalhousie who
: wish to partake of a few moments of recreation in the
little gym will be able to do so. If this situation is not immediately remedied all use of this section of the gymnasium will likely be suspended until those persons can learn
to be gentlemen. The Gazette will do all in its power to
bring the villains to justice.

 

WE JOIN THE WORLD IN SORROW——
(Continued from Page One)

No monarch in world history was ever closer to his
people than King George V of Great Britain, Ireland, the
British Dominions Beyond the Seas, and Emperor of India.
There was never any pretence of his desire to be of service
to his subjects. “Perseverance, mercy, courage and devotion”,
that was his throughout his life, was as apparent on his visits
to workmen as during any great affair of state. He was truly
“ever inch a king”.

Of his many visits to Canada, the last one is of particular
interest to Dalhousians, for it was on that occasion that he
honored our University with a personal visit, and an address
which is recorded verbatim in this issue of the Gazette.
And now

“,.. while the sorrowful trumpet is blown,
From island to continent, zone to imperial zone,
And the flags of the nations are lowered,”
the students of Dalhousie join with loyal subjects the world
Over in paying tribute to his late Majesty, “and stand in
reverence before a world-wide bier, proud of memories that
are precious, sorrowing in the universal sorrow that is in all
lands of this Empire today”.

> ae j
> eu

 

| one.”—Kipling.

é

   

“That the sins they do by two
and two they must pay for one by

 

Morality is a comparative and
thus. a_ shifting standard. The
ankle of 1920 blossomed fcrth into
the knee of 1925 only to retreat to
the shin of 1936. Like Caesar it
came, saw (or was seen), conquered,
and was forgotten. A thing in itself, it has been said, is. neither
good nor bad but thinking makes it
so. At any given moment the standard of morality for any given individual is the set of rules self-imposcd upon its members by that
community within which he lives.

simultaneously, and thus what at
first blush would appear to be an

extremely unstable

moderately even keel.

Frem the one direction the lode-| them study;

stone of complete unrestraint and
“naturalness,” the desire for a complete escape from the woes and
worries of this wicked world into an
enchanted realm where there is

;complete unconsciousness of every
day things, and where handsome
knights and fairytale prinesses live
in a dream that seems real. The

 

 

\

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

y Two And Two Coffee On Campus'

 

for? To drop into a lecture for an
hour or two as a matter of duty and

ment gym for coffee and a happy
chat about anything except what
would be expected from the so-called
college student?

But no, conditions do not even require the student to speak, let alone
think of anything pertaining to his
intellectual abilities, buried as they
are under the falseness of the latest
movie show, the difficult problem of
deciding what evening dress is to be
worn at the next dance, or the latest
alcoholic escape from the boredom
that must necessarily be the cause

then flee to the’ haven of the anny

||Two opposing forces are operating of this. attitude.

bd

And. why of all types of people

sort of thing , Should the college man or woman refor a standard is in fact kept on a|@uire escape from thinking?

From
sheer necessity do the majority of
not. for the love of
studying; not for the sake of absorbing into themselves the acquired
knowledge that should become essentially a part of the man or
woman that is to be; not to develop
and grow, but instead of a parrot-|

like behaviour towards the note-book

so that it may be memorized and
condensed in such a manner so as to

Just what are we on the onan

Something
To Think About

The delicate and sincere tributes
upon the death of King George,
given over the broadcasting stations
and implied in the Uunited States
government’s suspension of legislative and social activities, were a supreme indication of the place the
late King held in the hearts of the
American people.

Historically, they had no reason
to regard British sovereigns with
particular liking; it speaks highly
of the late King’s lovableness of
character that he was able to overcome this antipathy. The effect of
the respect he incited in the average
American upon Anglo-American relations cannot be underestimated.

x

 

¥

Perhaps a forecast of more interesting elections was the procedure followed by A. P. Herbert, a successful
candidate in the recent British elections. During his campaign he circulated a pamphlet giving his qualifications and his opinions on current
issues. Of Empire policy he said:

“I shall examine with some suspicion any proposals for the distribution of the British Empire among
foreign countries, whatever their

other force, and it has shown itself; be adequately reproduced in the|birthrate, insolence or insufficiency.”

equaily strong, is composed of the
sense of traditional morality, the
standard of the herd from which
the individual scareely dares depart;
and also of the solid substantial
force of religion which seeks to preserve a proper balance in our lives,
representing the quid pio quo of
duty and responsibility in return for
privilege, Morality, although an
indefinable and indescribable standard, is yet exceedingly stable in any
given community.

Ordinarily little Johnny would
not throw snowballs at old Mr. Piffsnortle’s hard hat, but when he and
Jimmy and Freddy stood securely
behind their newly-made snowfort
he willingly joined in the suggestion
that the hat made a legitimate target for their missiles. If you were
the only spectator, would you throw
rotten eggs at the actors no matter
how poor they were? If you alone
were viewing a hockey game, would
you throw bottles at the referee, or
call the defenceman a fool? “There
is safety in numbers”, said the
sage; and the pecple believed him.

In union there may be strength,
but there is also the veil of cowardice. Students in a large gathering
need but the word of some firebrand
to execute deeds of which they repent at leisure. If all the other
women students are wearing size
three shoes on their size seven feet,
why should our little Nell be denied
that privilege?

Provided everyone else (i. e. every
one who counts, don’t you know) ii
doing it, it muet be right, Who
dare deny that this is a democracy,
and that Farmer Corntossle’s son
has as much right to have his fling
as the scion of the not so old house
of Bourbon yon Bourbon? One is
never so much alone as in the midst
of a crowd; for the crowd cares not
what happens to the individual, do
he what he will; and too frequently
he takes advantage of the opportdnity, and does. What a man,
faced by his own conscience, would
not for a moment contemplate, he
will unthinkingly do when he feels
himself overcome by the mob impulse or realizes that one among
many he has lost his identity and
become a mere piece of human clay
without aspiration or responsibility.
There is danger (for the individual)
in numbers,

The teachings of religion aside,
what does a man think of himself in
ten, twenty, or thirty years time?
Has he the same self-respect, the
Same ease of conscience, if he must
look back upon a life in which he
could not keep an even balance? A
man who has had convictions, and
has had the courage to act upon
them, whether events proved him
right or wrong, may well esteem
himself highly. If you believe you
are right, have the courage to say
so and to act upon your belief, and
do not excuse yourself, as it were
hanging still to nursie’s apronstrings, by saying, “I do it, for
Handsomebody does thus and so.”
That, says the Moralist, is a most
difficult task, and many there be
who shirk it; nevertheless, he adds
with a cheery smile, if you hide not
the truth from yourself, but face it

form of an examination.

Is it the system upon which the
college is based or the student himself that has made our educational
curriculum the farce that it actually

Of temperance, he said: “I regard
the ‘pub’ as a valuable institution.”
And of agriculture, “I know nothing
about agriculture.”

Such quiet honesty would be a

relief to Canadians, used to the

is? It must be admitted that ex-| pompous raspings of the radio.
|

aminations are absolutely necessary
for the type of student that would
accomplish nothing otherwise.

I hesitate over the word “accomplish” in apply to this case of repetition because examinations may be
carried out easily without an original thought on the part of the student, and therefore can hardly be
thought of in terms of accomplishment.

It is something done, of course,
but the involved has been spent
mostly in a mechanical manner. Although this is inevitable at the
present time, it is one of the most
abominable and lazy methods that
man, even outside the realm of the
text-book, has been forced to resort
to. This has come about through
tradition, as human nature in general is inbred with the copy-cat
capacity of maintaining existence,
whether it be in the case of examinations, religions, or jobs; all are
automatic and non-thinking as the
change of the seasons.

Why it should be disastrous for
a man to sit down and work out his
personal salvation in terms of his
ideals whose existence, hitherto, he
has never dared to admit, is a problem, and a stupid one. Stupid because it is needless.

* * x

The men who gain the greatest
amount of satisfaction out of life are
those who are able to throw back
their heads and laugh in the sheer
joy of comparing their ideals to
those of others and rejecting or accepting them, as the case may be,

Continued on Page Three)

boldy, you will have taken a long
step toward reaching your goal;
then, quoting:

“If you can walk with crowds and
keep your virtue,
You'll be a man, my son.”

In short, said he, if you have ordinary commonsense and guts, you
will have no fear of the accounting
which you must one day make with

yourself, when the sins that you did

by two and two, you account for one
by one.

 

       
 

After a Show
Or At Any Time

    
    
    
       

A Hot or Cold Drink,
a Lunch or Ice Cream
in a bright and pleasant place.

       
     
         
         
       
     
 

 

 
  

The Green Lantern
|

 

 
  

 
 

| To the earnest searcher after
‘truth the relation between the material minutiae of life and the pressing problems of human affairs are
of deep and revealing interest. The
Snapper-up of unconsidered trifles
discovers in the increasing length of
cigarette butts conclusions varying
with the particular facet of mind he
turns upon it. The economist infers
that the depression is over; the
philosopher, who holds that smoking
stimulates thought, that human decadence has set in; the Liberal that
the Liberal policies have taken effect; but the cynic will say that the
equine excrement content of the cigarette has merely been increased.

Friday, January 24, 1936

 

 

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

CAPORAL

IGARETTES,

 

By this time the Veterans’ Bonus
Bill will likely be law in the United
States. At a time when millions are
on relief it was secured only by the
most intensive and bitter lobbying
on the part of three organizations.
Of four million men, only one million belong to these societies. Many
of these latter are opposed to the
bonus, fearing that, like’ many
worthy movements in the United
States, it will degenerate into a
racket. Many of the veterans do not
need the bonus. Its total cost would
take care of all the unemployed and
their dependents for two years.

 

WHEN YOU'VE HAD A
| MEAL WHICH DOESN'T
QUITE "FILL THE BILL”...

‘(| |
Tl

 

 
     
  
 
 
 
 
  

. .

| DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

i: : _ Friday, January 24, 1936
, un My Word ; ;
oe es Long Live the King!

_ Says Critic

iat

Page Three

a

Present King |Student Forum
Aided in Laying |Falls Flat

 

 

- ¥
ik. s

+

Ex-President
Recalls King

   

 

“A pun is the lowest form of wit.”
That has been said so often that it
is a cliche, but the history and the
development of the pun is quite un
Edward’s Visit

King Edward the Eighth, as |
Prince of Wales, paid two visits to|

Corner Stone

Advantage was taken of the visit

of the Prince of Wales to Halifax

No enthusiasm — that’s what’s
wrong with Dalhousie, and the
forum at which the opinion was expressed certainly revealed a com
known, although punning is the| the University during his tour of on August 18, 1919, to have the com |Plete lack of this sppirit. When a
dominant humorous pastime of the} Canada in 1919. ner stone of the proposed Women’s|forum is held to discuss campus

age. “A pun is the lowest form of
wit,” we say it again and again to
our friends as they—well, pun. But
listen to some of its able defenders.
When Henry Erskine was told that
the pun was the lowest form of wit,

The first of these occasions was
on August 15th, when he graciously
consented to lay the corner stone of
Shirreff Hall, the erection of whcih
was about to be begun. The ceremony was a brilliant one and the

Building laid. The Prince graciously
consented to lay the stone. The ceremony took place at 3.30 o’clock under a bright and sunny sky in the
presence of a great crowd of citizens
and visitors who thronged the ad
problems, whose business is it to
attend? Whose problems are they?
We show about as much interest in
these affairs as a Commerce student
shows in Latin grammar. In short,
the meeting was very poorly attend
he said, “It is, and therefore the|sky and atmosphere and the wooded sevent slopes of the site. ed and the few students who did

foundation of all wit.” And Lamb|surroundings in thorough keeping The decorated stand, approached! assemble had very little to con
defends the practice on higher | with it. The decorated stand, under along a gangway from South street,| tribute towards a constructive dis~ontainec yinece : is staff. | «cas

grounds: “A pun is a noble thing|a great overhanging pine tree, and contained the Prince and his staff, | eyssion.

‘per se’, it is satire, and fills the

approached along a gangway from

the naval officers from the visiting

The chairman, John Fisher, first

mind; it is as perfect as a sound.”’|South street, contained the Prince French warships, Lt.-Gov. Grant,|brought up this much-discussed idea
; 8 . . ae Nea : ; .

The pun was old and respected in| and his staff, the naval officers from Premier Murray, members of the| about cheap and frequent dances in

Board of Governors and of the|the gymnasium. After very little

the time of the Pythoness. It iis
found in Homer and in the Bible, the

Old Testament as well as the New.

against the past generation that
still holds sway. Nevertheless, there
are our offspring to come, and
through them we may see the result
of our efforts so that they may not
be ashamed to speak of drama, art,
poetry, music, or the economic and
political problems as they exist at
that time. They will speak of these
things as they gather in the bookstores and tuck shops of America
for their cigarettes and coffee.

a

the British and visiting French warships, Lt.-Governor Grant, Premier
Murray, Mayor Parker and other

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Senate, Mayor Parker and other official guests.
The proceedings were opened with

 

 

 

~

The above scene depicts the then Prince of Wales at the time he laid the corner stone of Shirreff Hall.
Included in the picture are King Edward VIII, Dr. Stanley MacKenzie, and former Lieut.-Governor Grant.

discussion of the question Len Kitz,
acting on the assumption that it is

 

 

 

 

 

 

In the reading room he met the
members of the staff and signed the
visitors’ roll. He then addressed
from the steps the students massed
on the lawn, after a brief introduction by the President. He was most
happy and informal in his short
speech, and the students were greatly appreciative of his request that
they be given a holiday to commemorate his pleasant visit to them. The
whole affair lasted only about fifteen minutes.

The spacious halls of Queen Eliza-|fficial guests, as well as the hed : ‘\useless to argue and not “do” anyprayer by Dr. John Forrest. Mr. G.|thine. put the suggestion in the
beth resounded with it. Shake-| bers of the Board of Governors bee “ge hell 4 le fd cca! to & PB ae eS
F es Gaver loded a chuwee einen of the Senate, a distinguished’ and S. Denaro el] : = ers e : < nd form of a motion. That is, ‘that the
; Bal quibble, Milton Gi “Paradise colorful @foup, A great assemblage dress and apne President ] ee Kenzie | Students’ Council appoint a com‘ Lost” makes Lucifer and Belial dis- of Dalhousians and citizens general- to read the following address:— mittee to investigate the feasibility
charge a volley of bad puns—truly ly thronged the adjacent slopes. “May it please your Royal Highness:|of such dances.” The meeting fa: : ; The Board of Governors and the/yored this decision.
infernal engines—against the an-| After prayers by Dr. Forrest, | Senate of Dalhousie University wish| py, y Pa) - ll nat etd
gels of the Lord. Thus the pun has|famous President of the University, to extend to your Royal Highness a sas . f a, ee i a « eek ees
an august genealogy; it has kept|and a short address by Mr. George most loyal greeting on the occasion opin aa anon a ? mes
F good company; it should be treated |S. Campbell, Chairman of the Board, of your first visit to this historic city S| ating. nere were few construc: : . : : of Halifax, and desire to thank you|tive remarks and when the meeting
, with consideration. President MacKenzie read a formal f racious consent to lav the it
ps dd f fas 1 bOe POMS BAeCue Conse say be! seemed to favor the idea, but to feel
But it has been said, and justly, address 0 welcome and loyalty. corner stone of the first residential | Jichdan weedetbhies Jaton isc. alineta
b iat) Bhalcoheare Bick ancited aay The Prince made a happy reply, building to be erected by the Uni- *@00eF Uncerain a vout the ee
q of his most serious scenes by the in-|@2l0s!zimg the work of women in versity. Pee een hatay Meck neron
ke zs x h : This University was founded and |Yrose in indignation against this spirit
oe troduction of puns. For example,| the war, both at the front and at ' ae ;
r puns. ple, hetie Wid. conpplitenting the Uui- its character and policy shaped by a|of resignation. He believed that the
. Northumberland receives the news eis car | representative — of the Crown, the opinions of the student body should
, of his son’s death at Shrewsbury in versity on the provision they were Governor of this Province, Lord Da | pe ‘ ea Srna i: C ]
. thin! snanner making for women students in or-| housie, afterwards Governor-General , “*¥© Some Welgnt with the Vouncl
ee ise der that these might enjoy in full-| of Canada. His Royal Highness the and that they should act as repre- Said he, Young Henry Percy’s oak sapaeans Fic bleioin of hicher | Duke of Connaught, while Governor-| sentatives and not an oligarchy.
. spur was cold? Of Hotspur, Cold-| ne - oe # | General of this Dominion, laid the| The Gazette was next on the list
coup?” : education. He then laid the ¢o "er | corner stone of the first building ena Mr Fisk ZS ee 7 ae at; «a
hy, : stone. The ovation and long con- erected upon this new site, which |“ wee eee (eBass) PY) SOPnere
i But what better could be expected tinued cheering which he received on marked the University’s entry upon|* Criticism that he had recently
of an ape when even royalty punned| his departure showed how fully his a later sphere of usefulness. heard. According to some mythical,
. ‘ " pig 4 os , oe =| This year we are c orating | back-bitinge individu: he Gazette
. upon the throne? When James I.| personality had caught the imagina- the ans of our eee tle ong SST a one nace
disgraced his title by saying to Sir|tion of all who then saw and heard we are deeply sensible of the greater . shea stant i ee
. Walter Raleigh “By my soul, man,|him for the first time. HIS MAJESTY KING EDWARD VIII honour Your Royal Highness is con-|@ly publication by concentrating
r I have heard but rawly of thee”? The next appointment of the : a et : ferring upon us in laying this cor- | on news items. This, it seems, should
However, some of the very best | Prince was to be in informal call on oe ie ee ee be) discontinued - and thie ee
puns in the language have been up-|the members of the Studley Quoit lavish (sic) paraphenaiia of the tended coming was given to the | hundredth anniversary. Ps | ane sue ettars; Skit, and: aia
on names. There was something| Club, whose grounds are adjacent| Quoit Club, and noticing some one press, as he wished it to be a mat-| We are confident that in your |©*Pressions of student opinion. The
melancholy about the jest of poor|to Shirreff Hall. So exuberant|at the improvised standing-desk|ter just between himself and the|journey through Canada you will|°bservation was made that such
F Dr. Thomas Browne, who, having! was the enthusiasm of the immense | looking over the Visitors’ Book, re-|students. He left his staff in the ee pe oe , deep and/space would probably remain empty,
; unsuccessfully courted a lady and|crowd that it was obvious they were , marked jocosely that that was where|motor at the back of the Mac- Seen of He Majesty. the ee | judging from the support that the
, being challenged to drink her health| going to follow him and swamp the | Visitors took and signed the pledge. | donald Library and walked smiling- your father, and to the great Em. | @22ette has received in the past.
as had been his wont, replied: “I|club, and we had to have the chauf-|The Prince, for it was he, looked up|ly through a double line of women Rien over which he rules. Of this (Continued on Page Four)
have toasted her many years, but I|feur take the official party for a|uickly and quizzically said, “What’s|students to the entrance to the oyaty and ee al- —
cannot make her Browne, so I’ll|short drive in order to throw the|that?” And just then the camera| building. fields OF Panes Oa Wenders, Fhe sar aig ie rsa) So at
4), aa 3 i ‘ : ny = S in < < S as toast her no more.” crowd off the scent. clicked. Col. Thompson, recognizing | In the Reading Room he met each|part which universities and univer- tributed her ahaa 6 Mie, Sesees
The golden era of English pun- An amazing incident was the oc-| His Royal Highness, quickly reas-|member of the staff, and signed the|S!ty men played in the war is a| which fought for high ideals and
’ ning was the era of like protagon-|¢4Sion for the taking of a snap-shot sured him that he could sign the|yisitors’ roll. As he came out brought victory to our arms. She is
ists of the act—Lamb, Jenks, Hook|°f the Prince which was considered Visitors’ Book with a clear con-|the steps to address the students|to me with a mischievous smile and proud of the services which over six
; ; Pah ; ea ie glk ake a : io case Pane , % aw iy, _|hundred of her students have renand Hood. The puns of Lamb are!S° ©xPressive of his personality that | § e. massed before him, an enthusiastic,|5@id under his breath, “that’s the dered, services in which sixty-six
. . . e ° = 2% o . 9 > es 7 . Wid ; T-S x
almost too familiar to quote, but|it was reproduced in London and| The Prince expressed a wish to|irrepresible student ejaculated, “Atta kind of speech they like. lost their lives, and forty-five rethis one is less known. He was com-|™@ny other papers. It appears}visit the University, but said he|boy, Prince!” to the latter’s great| His simple, unaffected and sincere | ceived recognition for valor from His
fortably housed with a few friends |#™0ng the photographs in the mony | wae postpone his visit until his re-|amusement. He made a short, hap-,;"@ature was so apparent, and his ee are — one
oh 4 stotmy' evening. Disturbed by fax Daily Star of last Tuesday. | turn to the city, when the students|py and appropriate impromptu ad-|™Manner so democratic and friendly, that wid wae lve lone ee, prayer
a dog howling without, someone Col. W. E. Thompson, secretary would be present. He did so on No-| dress to the students and said he| that all Dalhousians were captivated great esteem and affection that Rave
benevolently proposed to let him in,|°f the Board, who was chatting with|vember 25th. This time his visit|was going to ask that a holiday be| by his charm, and he holds a special|come to you through the distin“Why,” stuttered Lamb, “grudge the newspaper men, was calling their|was entirely an informal one with-| declared to mark his pleasure in his/ Place in their loyalty and devotion. hase ype eo ee which you have renyi aaiis : ee ase 7, : derec he war
him his whine and water?” attention in a humorous vein to the| out ceremony. No notice of his in-| visits to Dalhousie. He then tu:ned| A. STANLEY MacKENZIE. | We ey a rete to be. Sir
So think next time before you say aT, ‘ x cd 7 ars al Your — Highness’ most obedient
“A pun is the lowest form of wit.” | j are
Dp Pelee behalf of the Board of GovOE ee Se eee eee eee eee 2rmmors.
C f On Cam (Sgd.) G. S. CAMPBELL,
f Oo fee pus Chairman.
(Continued from Page Two) (Sgd.) A. STANLEY MACKENZIE,
j ’resident.”’
F but always with a brain that is in The Princ h
\ . . » -e é 2» £ ¢
more than a state of semi-conscious- aes we eee reply,
i eulogizing the work of women in the
, war both at the front and at h
| And the student himself? No, he! suid leoraplsmentine: tha tics oe
| and complimenting the U niversity on
is not entirely clear of blame. In the nroviei et id ;
the fi ] h 1€ provision they were making fo
e first place, why should the stu- women in order that they might en. dent who is capable of being more iov the f aoe tea
~ Re | Joy the fullest measure of the blessan a parasite epending upon the ings of higher education.
words flowing from the mouth of The masc revel se
son work was under the
the professor for the sap of his suc- lirecti :
direction of Mr. Henry Roper of the
cess, allow himself to be judged in firm of S MR -£ 1.
| firm of S. M. Brookfield Construction
} the usual manner? Perhaps he is Companv. Colc HF
. vompany. Colonel W. E. Thompson
powerless to do anything about it acted as marshal «: “tt
: | , acted as marshal of the proceedings
and by “anything” I mean if each ich yacc BS
oe which passed off most successfully
individual realized his fate and said and expeditiously
. definitely, “I wlil not go to college a
} if I am not allowed to study and Second Visit of the Prince of Wales
' think and have my mind given the to the University.
} chance to develop to its fullest| | 9° SUUMus S) , ee ke F
- ett.” Pp On November 25, 1919, the Prince
‘ 2 : , 3 | of Wales again visited the Univer; :. — a long i a — this ity. Eteriig ‘the grouiidi: ‘along
attitude becomes general. Perhaps it the avenue from Coburg Road, he
£ will never be reached. Perhaps it alighted is : .
7 gnted from his motor and passed
will only be reached when this real- through : r eit a
; a : ough a double line of women stuf ization has penetrated into this gen- lents the Mac
; dents to the Macdonald Librar
. ra " , ana
. eration, which in itself can do little

 

 

 
 
 

 

IN SNAPPY GAME

 

Led by Eddie Cohn who scored
four of his teams five goals, Dal
Tigers turned back Blue Sunocos by
a score of 5-3 to win first place in
the final standing of the City League. The Tigers looked good at all

times, and really deserved to come

out on top. Too much credit cannot be given to the stout defense
thrown up by Johnny Carroll and
Dan MacGregor, and to the stellar
preformance turned in by Bob McLellan in the nets.

Halfway through the first period
Cohn took a perfect pass from MacGregor and gave Healy no chance on
the shot. About thirty seconds later
Suneos tied the score, Hanrahan
scoring on Clancy’s pass. Before
the period ended Cohn again put the
Yellow and Black one up when he
batted Graham’s passout into the
net from a scramble in front of the
net.

Suneos held a slight edge in the
second period and finally knotted
the count at two all when Brundage
poked the rubber in from a mixup.
The Tigers were continually weakened by penalties in this period and

speedy Suncos.

With Coach Earnie Mosher’s instructions to “go and get ’em” ringing in their ears, the collegians
went into action in the final period
and Jim Graham battled his way
through the whole Sunco’s team to
draw out the goalie and backhand
the dise home. While Johnny Mullane was cooling his heals on the
penalty bench, Eddie Cohn broke
away and outraced the entire Sunocos team to score easily. Cohn
repeated the play a few minutes
later to score the Tigers fifth and
last tally. Suncos forced the play
and Hanrahan finally scored on a
play that was at least two feet offside. There was no more scoring
and the Tigers skated off the ice
with a 5-3 verdict.

Classical Clubs

 

Cubs Baskeeters
Defeated by “Y”

The Dalhousie Cubs made their
debut in the Intermediate Basketball
League last Saturday when they
dropped a close decision to the Y.
M. C. A. by a 82—27 margin. The
game opened at a fast clip and the
Cubs opened the scoring with two
field goals in quick succession. Halfway through the period, led by
“Babe” DuBilier and Doug Lyall,
they had increased this margin to
lead by an 11—2 score. From this
point on the Y. M. C. A. began to
dominate the play and at the halfway mark had whittled the Cubs’
lead to four points, Dalhousie leading 18—14.

On the resumption of play the “Y”,
with two quick field goals, knotted
the count and, led by the sharpshooting Simmonds, who was borrowed from the “Y” Senior team for
the game, went into a lead they
never lost. The Cubs fought hard
for the remainder of the game, but
the final whistle found them still
trailing by five points.

“Babe” DuBilier with 8 points
and Doug Lyall with 10, led the offence of the Cubs. “Chuck” Lorway, and Leo Simmonds, who last
year played with the Dalhousie Cubs
and who are now playing also with
the Y. M. C. A. in the Senior circuit,
and Snowden Johnson, who with 12
points was high man, were the pick
of the winners.

Mr. Stirling expressed himself as
satisfied with the performance of
his charges, and when the two teams
meet again on Thursday at Studley
a very different result is expected.

The lineups were as follows:

Dalhousie — Dean 2, Kerman, DuBilier 8, MacKenzie, guards; Baird 5,
centre; Saunderson, Murphy, Lyall
10, L. Stewart, E. Stewart 2, forwards.

Y. M. C. A.—Doubledayl, Sim
To Present Play

monds 11, Wilson, guards; Lorway 3,
centre; Hatfield, Meisner 3, Johnson
12, Robinson 2, forwards.

 

The Dalhousie-King’s Classical
Club will hold their monthly meeting at the home of President Stanley
on Saturday evening. For this
meeting a number of the members
are preparing the comedy, “Trinummus”, by Plantus. As usual the

 

Student Forum-(Continued from Page Three)

Mr. Pink was called upon to state
the policy of the Gazette, and he
players will wear proper Roman! quite easily convinced the meeting
costumes, and the play is eighenietsy that complaints based on the unwillto maintain the traditional excel-| ingness of students to support their
lence of this yearly feature of = paper should not be directed against
Club’s activities. es staff.

Eatonia
GLOVES FOR MEN

were hard pressed to keep out th

 

   
 

Popularly Priced,

1.75

Masculine gloves for the rugged winter weather—finer types
for dressier occasions. Of soft, pliable, selected capeksin
(sheepskin) leathers, unlined and with PXM sewn seams and
gusset fingers. Shades of grey, beaver and tan. Sizes 744 to 9.

Eaton’s—Main Floor

m1. EATON

MARITIMES

 

LIMITED

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Report On Dal

— ee

Girl’s Basketball

In less than a month the Dalhousie girls will be playing in their
first match at Mount Allison. Until this week they had been practising under coach Bob Goudey and
using men’s rules in ‘order to play in
the City League. Due to difficulties
about Amateur Cards, Dalhousie
co-eds have been forced to withdraw
from this league and they will be
using girl’s rules from now on.

Dalhousie was the victor last year
in the Inter-collegiate League and
her chances look fairly bright this
year. Although Dal has lost four
valuable members of last year’s
team, Flo and Martha Keniston,
Shirley Sterns and Billie Oxley, we

 

still have Dot Dobson, Margaret |

Woolaver, Sheila Stewart and Isobel
Fraser. Among the Freshettes at
practice are Margaret Hall and
Irene Pentz, stars of last year’s H.

|C. A. team, Virginia MacDonald and

 

Joyce Sircom from the H. L. C. team,
Joan Anderson, Moncton,
Furlong from Edgehill.

 

 

Intermediates Start

Basketball Play

Dal intermediates opened on the
“Y” team to start their round of
play. Tech has dropped out of the
league, while St. Mary’s has entered
a team for the first time. The next
game will reveal whether Dal can
bear up under the relentless charges
of the experienced Association five.
The schedule as announced by Bob
Donahue is as follows::

 

Thursday, Jan 23—
7.00—Dal vs. “Y’’.
King’s vs. Wanderers.
Saturday, Jan. 25—
7.30—St. Mary’s vs. King’s.
Wandedrers vs. “Y”.
Wednesday, Jan. 29—
6.30—St. Mary’s vs. Dal.
Thursday, Jan. 30—
7.00—King’s vs. St. Mary’s.
Dal vs. Wanderers.
Saturday, Feb. 1—
.20—St. Mary’s vs. “Y”’.
Wanderers vs. King’s.

and Joan| Wednesday, Feb. 5—

6.30—“Y” vs. Wanderers.

Friendly games are being arranged | Thursday, Feb. 5

with some of the Y. W. C. A. teams.

7.00—King’s vs. “Y”’.

More girls are needed at basketball Saturday, Feb. 5

practice. The turnout is not nearly
large enough! There are twice as
many Town girls as Hall girls at)
practice. Why is this?
few more Hall girls could make the
effort.

Interfaculty Hockey
Schedule Announced

Manager Henry Ross has arranged
a full program for the collegiate ice
skaters. Two sections will clash at
the Forum, the winner in each to
play off in a two game series, total
goals to count.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.

21—Arts and Sc. vs. Dentistry.
22—Engineers vs, Freshmen.
28—Law vs. Commerce.

Feb. 3—Arts & Science vs. Com.
Feb. 4—Medicine vs. Freshmen.
Feb. 10—Commerce ys. Dentistry.

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

11—Engineers vs. Medicine.
18—Law vs. Dentistry.

25—Arts and Science vs. Law.

Games to be played at 6 p.m.

ee ea. Get
Together

 

Appointing John Fisher, a plebe
in years, but a veteran in political
experience as their Premier, the
Tories of the Dalhousie Law School
girded their loins and prepared to
enter battle with the Grit forces.

Whips from each class were appointed. Hungerford, Mercer and
DeWolfe being chosen. Harrison
Cleveland was voted general whip.

The party feels by rallying their
ranks the Grit party whose turn it
is this year to hold power can be defeated. Home of numerous Canadian statesmén the Conservative
party will attempt to obtain power

giving the Law School the prosper- |

ous, sane government noted in Tory
regimes,

 

Wrestlers and Boxers
Out For Practice

The manly art of self-defense
seems to be trying to recover its
former none too hefty position in
college sport circles. Failure to send
a team to the Intercollegiate Championships at St, F. X. last year all
but killed interest in intercollegiate
boxing at Dalhousie. However, some
dozen or so maulers and grunt and
groaners turn out for daily workouts
in the lower gym and also for the
class of instruction held every Saturday afternoon at 3.30.

From these few faithful adherents
of the mat game Mr. Stirling hopes
to select a team for the coming Intercollegiate Championships which,

'though perhaps not as strong as

some former teams, will give a good
account of itself,

|

 

 

 

7.00—Wanderers vs. St. Mary’s.
Thursday, Feb. 13—
7.00—Dal vs. King’s.

Surely a | Saturday, Feb. 15—

7.30—*Y” vs. St. Mary’s.
Wanderers vs. Dal.
Thursday, Feb. 20—
7.00—Dal vs. St. Mary’s.
Thursday, Feb. 27—
7.00—King’s vs. Dal.

Suggestion

The six hundred dollars that the
government grants Dalhousie for
quarters to train the C. O. T. C.
has almost made that manly nistitution a sacred cow to Gazette
writers, ,

The Interfaculty Sports Manager
is in despair. He finds it impossible
to obtain regular suitable hours for
student interfaculty competitions.

A reasonable suggestion might be |

|

 

|

ito ensure their

University Store

 

 

Friday, January 24, 1936

ersCop First Place in League

DAL TOPS SUNOCOS

Year Book Staff
Asks Co-Operation

At the last meeting of the staff
of the Year Book, plans for the coming book were drawn up. It was decided that the Year Book would go
to press about the middle of March.

The book this year will consist of
pictures of graduates, classes, executives, societies, varsity teams and
interfaculty champions. There will
be a section of the book devoted to
fraternities and sororities. Among
the features there will be several
pages of informal snaps. The Year
Book will be bound in a hard, fabricated cover as in former years.

As it is the plan of the editors

 

ec}

 

to print only the number of copies

ordered, it will be necessary for

those desiring a copy of the book
to order in advance to assure delivery.

All persons are asked to co-operate
with the photographic editor in the
taking of photographs for the book
and to keep their appointment at
the photographer’s.

Will those taking the degrees of
Master of Science, Master of Arts
or any other advanced degree, get in
touch with the staff of the Year
Book before February 15th in order |
pictures appearing
in the Year Book.

 

10 fo, 1O¢

BUCKIN ew

20 for2O*- 25 for 25+-50 hr50¢
ene ee

 

 

Seeks Co-Operation

The more one does for some people
in this college the less they appreciate It, or so it seems from the Remembering his vigorous work
actions of the students who benefit :
in the Federal election along the

most from buying over the ledge of Eastern Shore, where rumor says
the window in the rear of the store. ‘that a 100% Hetan th vote Want Libs
The Gazette takes upon itself the | oral William “Baldy” Armétrong
duty to inform these miscreants, for was lected Premionr of the’ Liberal
such they are, that they may cause party for the Dalhousie Mock Parthat noted campus character, “Dun- Tamavit.
ker” Atwood, proprietor of the noble
institution, “University Store’’
major financial loss.

The situation is this: Dunker does
a large percentage of his trade
through the window in question,
trade that otherwise would be lost,

 

Grits Hold Caucus

 

 

Because of his strong moral fortitude Fraser Bentley was delegated
to act with the Premier in arranging a committee to discuss common
matters with the Tories.

a

Showing the trend towards one

 

that the Training Corps continue to ‘because most of us are too lazy to
hold their lectures in the class; walk around. Access to that window
rooms, but do their marching on the 'may only be had through the lower
football field. This would give the | gym, which sometimes is left open
sports a chance and still be fulfiling |only for that purpose. It seems
an aim of the Corps which is phy- | ‘that some thoughtless customers
sical training which should be done | heave dumbells around and break up
outdoors. If occassionaly the volu- | | the equipment in general. Now the

minous great coats the gentlemen ‘gym authorities threaten to lock the

officers use fail to keep them warm little gym, which action would de- | be
then the stage would be ample space | prive Dunker of part of his means | tioned but the 20th is

to allow the lads, unfortunately ,of livelihood.
weak in number, but strong in spirit, |
to wheel hither ae yon. ficient. If not, the writer and his
army are prepared to take steps to
procure pictures of the miscreants
and display them on the front page
of the Gazette under the caption,
“The Meanest Men (?) in College”.
| Is it right that a friend’s liveli| hood should be made harder because
| there live among us a group of children with moronic minds? Saner
_Dalhousians would say no, and if
|they witness a recurrence of the
|aforementioned vandalism they will
co-operate by giving the vandal a
“bat on the ear”,

|

 
    
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      

Students!
Attention

One of the most gigantic sales of high| grade Skis, Poles, |
| Harness, Boots and |
| ski suits will be an- |
nounced in this paper
Halifax
Hardware and

Strong Men

WANTED—Twenty husky  students to lift up the stone post at
the main South Street entrance.
Engineering papers please copy.

| CASINO

next Friday.

 

 

See our windows and
wateh for announcement.

 

 

STARTING SATURDAY

 

 

SS

|
| James Cagney
|
|

Frisco Kid

Paint Co.

Limited | SPECIAL EXTRA!

 

“Land of Evangeline”

EVERY NOVA SCOTIAN
SEE IT!

397 BARRINGTON ST.

i | -<
B-8454 | SHOULD

 

 

Surely a word to the wise is suf- |

 

man governments, a most deplorable
situation, the Premier was given the
right to name his own cabinet. It
was decided cabinet positions must
not be used as bribes for new members or rewards for those lacking in
spirit.

The date of opening was discussed. It was agreed the 20th would
suitable. No month was men
a nice date in
any o!d month.

 

 

Birks-
One of many items
is stationery—plain,
or with Fraternity
crest,

Inquire regarding
the advantage of a
group order.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

Today—One Full Week

Graucho, Chico, Harpo

The
Marx Brothers

a

‘A Night at the Opera’
