STITT TLIC TU

Buy
A

Year

Book

ILUULITIQV0UOUUYEVOOCEOLEVES0 OAS RE

 

a VOL. : HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1936

 

 

No. 17

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bates for the year to twenty-three,
with seven more arranged for.

Debates remaining are: a political
debate, which will bring together the
“Greats” of both sexes just prior to
the opening of the Mack Parliament;
four City League debates; the final
Bennett Shield debate, and it is expected that Dalhousie will participate in three more Radio debates, to
bring the total to thirty-two for the
year, and providing for sixty debaters.

 

 

Held Wednesday
At the Law School

Wednesday night marked the close
of the Moot Court cases at Dalhousie
for this year. The respective counsel were Messrs. Bentley and Ramsay for the appellant, and Messrs.
Cleveland and Pink for respondent.

The case was heard by Mr. Justice
Hall, Mr. Justice Doull and Mr. F.,
Smith, president of the Barristers’

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fraternity men should find Espy | this show certainly does credit to
especially interesting. He is a mem-|the “Hillers”. The music is under
ber of four national honorary frats.|the direction of Howard Kennedy,
and stage direction by Pat MacDonald. Dancing with Laurie
orchestra after the show.

world over.
turbulent spirits were unsettling to
stable government. . Moreover, their
intolerant and immature minds disregarded institutions and constitutions which had grown up with the

He was president of the U. S. InterFraternal Council. An excellent
speaker, Mr. Espy has on tour in
1930 debated in the United States,
Mexico and Canada.

Hart’s

ship. “The German Youth Parade”|mind is not yet mature. It goes
will be the speaker’s topic on Satur-|from left to right, from anarchy to
day. Don’t miss it.

Mr. Espy spent a number of years
in Germany on an exchange scholar
 

dictatorship, breeding revolution, he
concluded.
Calaway of McGill pleaded for

 

 

| Progress of civilization. The student |

He showed that their

list won in other years. Come on
out and give the boys a hand!
Although seriously handicapped by
the loss of Oscar Serlin, speedy forward, who is out for the rest of the

|Season with a bad knee, injured in

the game with Wanderers, a lusty
lot of Tigers should trot out on the
floor Saturday night, neatly dressed,

 

we hope, in their cute canary yellow
uniforms,
The team, which has been put

participation on the ground that | through their paces in a series of

. a ee ee cae
Dal to Play Mount A. Tomorrow
s ® | v
Debatin Council Holds | prec Hill aad The Dal Wins Second Sackville
° 2 +
° ‘Hectic Session | fa| ‘Newman Club To Radio Debate Hoopsters
Record Ss The Council met in the Law class-| 'PresentG ymShow On Friday evening last, Babbitt Pla Here
Surpassed room on ee es consider eo : | ——— oo ae ee y
heaviest agenda of the year. - pee ar Glee|K- C. Baker and E. L. Calaway of, ee Ste.
a meeting opened at 2.30 and adjourn-| |TRR ar. on! gee me McGill in the sone -tnals of the Cane} DA NCE TO BE HE LD
SODALES HEAD ISSUES {ed at 6 o’clock. . - | Thursday, February 27th, and indi- adian Radio ee ee) AFTER THE GAME
PLANS Gordon. Tigsbacn ye ne the ot cations point to an evening of real ; Canada eee aa series. i
F. C. U. 8S. representative for the} sie |The subject was, “Resolved that Uni-| Since hockey is now out of the
coming “yeor/: The selection oe or eagall _., |versity Students Should Refrain’ sport picture, a large student crowd
This week marks the high water mittee of Taylor, Manning and Geo. | The first offering oS sie CvenItE, from Political Activity”. is expected to turn out for the big
mark of debating interest in the Uni- Thompson submitted three names to | |}a one act comedy, Suppressed De; Parlee opened by saying that the basketball event of the year—the
versity, for there are seven debating |+,. Council: Thompson, Hattie and | sires”, will be “The Newman Club’s’ affirmative believed in study and ‘game with Mount. Allison tomorros
teams preparing for debates at the | Lea. George Thompson, the retiring |attempt to capture the dramatic hon- training for students, but political |in the Dal Save
present time. Never in the history representative, gave a very exhaus- ‘ors of the year, for in an attempt to | activity defeated the purpose of a Last Saturday’s game at Sackville
of the University has anything ap- tive and valuable resume of the ‘foster dramatics at Dalhousie Mr. J. university by taking them away |saw the Dials Hésind Giksl dats Sees
ee ey Pert achieved. work of this body during the past P. Connolly has kindly donated a! ¢04, their studies. Moreover, a |win in the last few minutes in a
Parlee and Webber are preparing few years, and a review of the con- Shield to be given to the troup who college was attempting to open the \tight and exciting game. ‘If tomorfor their final debate in the Eastern ference at Toronto last year. He has | present the best one act play of the student’s mind and keep it free |row’s game is anything like it, it
section of the Commission series; held the position for the past two] ° |year. The Newman Club produc- from bigotry and prejudice. But | should provide the best in sport enFisher and Richardson are working years, and is to be congratulated on REV. EDWIN ESPY. tion will be under the direction of politics meat.t political affiliation  estehcSicceet:
on a legal topic to be debated against the very fine manner in which he has : Ted Byrne. and the student would have to fol- As an added attraction the manU. N. B. Law School; Maclvor and | discharged the duties of the office. ° This will be followed by something} low the dictates of the party’s |agement is providing dancing after
Mercer will leave in two weeks to The Malcolm Honor Committee is Edwin Espy unique and original, a comic opera! policy. Ithe game, with Sinclair’s six-piece
debate against Mt. A. and U. N. B; composed of Professors Bell and T S k t Dal ‘in two acts, entitled, “Who Killed; Baker of McGill made an extem- Orchestra. Cheer-leaders are expectee ee ee ail meet Wilson, and Fisher, Thompson and i pea 2 Cock Robin?” Composed and 4¥-'poraneous rebuttal which on the ed out, and everything points to a
Mt. A. here on March 2nd; the Taylor from the Council. ——— ranged by a group of Pine Hill bOYS; | radio was not particularly effective, fine evening’s fun.
cuenor-Baniors eh a ee etter was read from the Coun- Students, your chance to hear and who at the request of the Gle Club| jy, argued that students were needed The hockey and football teams
ee et eee Bennett cil of King’s asking that a committee talk to Rey. Edwin Espy is on Fri-|executive have kindly consented to|,, bring freshness into politics. To Teaped no sweeping victories — or
Series; the Freshie-Soph debate will (Continued on Page Four) - = Saiaeda ilies and at the| present it to a Dalhousie audience. | s6cjude oneself in a college library Championships this year, but there
uiunats take place on # ebruary. ei, anes a a hen Forum at Saturday ‘ndon.? It*has heen some time since any| wo. not preparing for life. is still the basketball team, which
team representing Pine ill-will M ot Court Trial The Forum is in Room 3, Arts|organization has attempted to pro- Webber for Dalhousie examined With proper student support should
meet St. Mary’s on the 28th. And Oo Buildin \duce an original production, and!ihe effect of students in polities the' add some more trophies to the long
this brings the total number of de- 5:

 

 

THREE TEAMS SELECTED

Society.
The two men who present their

HomeT o iin Girl Makes Good |

stiff daily practices this week, will
probably consist of the Crease broth
students must have definite opinions, must take sides and fight for

: me : what they believed to be right. |e’S, Musgrave, Macintosh, Miller,
AT SODALES MEETING. ee ies me we wine their |  Drimming with civic pride, Dib Ballem’s hometown news- eee ncn tee. | Semtibuans, Green, MecLeodiaud
liven onor oO avin er ° ; cs 2p et A : ; ‘ ee
At the largest trials of the year, steal saw = the en Shield,| Paper carried a special story from Halifax on the new cele- ie isidelines: Tokosh.
three teams were selected to repre- This year this honor was bestowed| brated Co-ed issue under the heading, ‘‘Lady Students at; In a short rebuttal Parlee showed| The Mount Allison team is no
sent Dalhousie last Monday night in

-the Munro room. Babbitt Parlee

and Harvey Webber will meet St.

upon Messrs. Pink and Ramsay.
The appeal, ,however, was dis
 

 

Dalhousie Spring Surprise—Issue of Gazette Under Direction of New Glasgow Girl Created Sensation.’’? Here’s what

the various societies and interests in| bunch of Sissies;

college devoted to training students

they have two men
as tall as big Mit Musgrave, a great

Sess

: for practical activity. His desire|freshman line which starred with
missed. AT Biggs Paso os hea Al nis 2 ; MM, sails awotte« . x

F. X. in the Radio debates; Smith I'he New Glasgow News thought of last week’s Gazette: was to have students thoroughly|*t. John High last year, and a couple

Maclvor and Ike Mercer will travel } rit rues’ re-| ‘Tained before taking part in goy-|°f speedy forwards who have an

to Mt. A. and U.N-B ae Munroe Day HALIFAX, Feb. 14 — Venerable;from the giggles and collegues re- ys aarties 3 - | uneanny si Hbiicintd uscabaedlice cael

Beets Bee tats ae ee bones of Horace Greeley, patron of| marks that the issue was the best in eee Bnd ‘then: £ ey would bring through guards’ lecs es peice

Arab and Simon Webber will meet March 11th aspiring and ambitious young news-| years—even the proof reading was to society a new and higher standard » Sn Buards’ legs, etc., to score.

Mt. A. in a regular Intercollegiate
debate on March 2nd.

Those turning out were: LeGrow,
Thorpe, Green, MacLatchey, Redmond, Ferguson, Selikoff, Higgins,
Daley, Burchell, Parlee, Webber,
Maclvor, Arab, Webber, Mercer and
Donkin.

Prof. Bennett and Dr. Johnston
were the judges. Charles A. Manning was in the chair.

 

FISHER AND RICHARDSON
SELECTED.

John Fisher and Ernest Richard
 

Preparations are already underway for the Munro Day exercises
which will be held in the Dalhousie
Gymnasium, on Wednesday, March
lith, beginning at 3 p.m.

The highlights of the afternoon’s
entertainment will include competition between Studley and Forrest
students for the Munro Day Shield.
Indoor hockey, basketball and softball will make up the events. Although the Studley athletes are the
present holders of the coveted shield,
the lawyers feel confident of captur
 

paper men, stirred uneasily in his| better.
grave today as the Dalhousie Gazette,) Miss Ballem got so many contrioldest college student- paper in North | butions that some had to be conAmerica; appeared on the campus, | signed to the waste paper basket for
edited and written by co-eds only.|lack of space. Even the professors
In charge, as editor-in-chief, was|had to give a right of way to the
Miss E, Elisabeth Ballem, senior in|co-eds and the business manager
Arts, from New Glasgow. She was (male) was accused of deliberately
assisted by Miss Edith Blair, Truro,|selling more than usual advertising
and Miss Isabel Fraser, Sydney. to prevent the girls from having
more space to show up the boys.
The editors weren’t the only blushing boys on the campus. Articles
were from a girl’s-eye view of cam-|
pus activities, and stalwart basket-|

 

 

For the first time since 1869, when
the paper began, every word was
written by feminine hands, female
editors chose what was to be pub
 

of statesmanship. It looks like a good battle, although we hope no more so than
necessary. Come one, come all, and
show the Mount Allison boys that
Dalhousians are not lacking in college spirit and are ready to support
their team to the limit.

 

Mock Parliament
Next Friday

Next Friday evening will see
the opening of the Annual Dalhousie
Mock Parliament. The usual pomp
and ceremony will mark the first
session, when the interesting highlights will be the reading of the
Speech from the Throne and the | ch

 

 

Representatives
Chosen at Meeting

Under “Seed” Sanderson’s solemn
airmanship, Johnny Carroll

 

was

opening of the debates. elected as the ie eka sh eee

: ; : lished, and womanly fingers did tl} opening oO ; as the Arts representative

son were selected to represent the| ing it this eet Pidob reat and as 2 ll i ee ball forwards learned with horror This year the Liberals will hold|of the D. A. A. C. Nothing succeeds
Law School against U. N. B. Law| Later in the afternoon a tea dance g Bens: :

School in the opening debate of a
newly arranged series between the
two Law Schools. This year U.N.B.
comes here, and next year Dalhousie
will debate in Saint John.

The topic for the debate will be:
“Resolved, that the B. N. A. Act

will be held, with Jerry Naugler
supplying the music. Between 7.30
and 8 p.m. the new Student Cuncil
will obe introduced to the student

_| body by Harold Taylor, president of

this year’s Council.
A Glee Club show will wind up

ithat they were renowned more for
light curly hair than for their ability
to score from all angles.

' Budding barristers shivered at the
open revelations of themselves

The paper, with its headline anas
seen by a co-ed student, while em
nouncing “Co-ed Valentine LeapYear Issue”, was published as an
answer to masculine taunts that the
collegiate misses could not do it—it
was a comic Valentine to the boys

. bryo doctors gasped at a story on
from the girls,

as|Sstrong, with Fraser Bentley as his|he w

 

sway for at least the first two ses-|like a
sions (for Fisher has vied that they | Johnny.
cannot last much longer, under the John Fisher
leadership of William “Baldy” Arm- Recognizing

surprising hockey team,
holds his popularity,
his traits of leadership,
as nominated along with Gordon Thompson as the Frosh C

mr /ounse]
House will|of ’40. This wil] be voted: on by ehe

right hand man.
The Speaker of the

themselves by a woman medico. likely be the Honorable Ronald | whole student body next month.
should be amended only with the/|the exercises. Although the details For years male editors had ¢ca- Statistics from the University of-| Fielding, and it is rumored that
consent of all the Provinces.” of the show are being kept very joled, begged, coaxed, stormed id | ee showed the girls averaged higher | George Crouse will hold the honor- eerie cea
Those turning out to the trials|secret, the Gazette learns from a re- | bullied for contributions from the | than the boys in their exams. able position of Sergeant-at-Arms. oe = ptanley will a
were: John Fisher, Ernest Richard-|liable source that it will take the girls, but response was scant. The| And so, while the girls chuckled! In the past these sessions have team ou bi-weekly public
son, Simon Khatter, Simon Webber,|form of a night club revue. Tap suggestion was made that the girls|and congratulated Miss Ballem, in, been crowded with spectators, so this re ee the history of AnIke Mercer, David Redmond, Smith| dancing by a troup of co-eds, soft should put out a whole issue—it was | masculine quarters some relief was| year be sure to come early and get wut Greece until Wednesday,

Maclvor, and Layton Ferguson.
The members of the Law Faculty
acted as judges, and Charles A.

_ Manning was in the chair.

lights, posing of bronze statues, and
music by Jerry Naugler promise to
make this show even better than the
one presented last year,

‘
é


intended as a joke,

Ballem accepted, the regular editors|once in four and many hoped it
|were so surprised they let her go | would be a long time before the girls
ahead. Today they are in hiding took charge again.

 

MS»
omer ; |
eg ‘@ (
* 7 wi 4 a =
: i: Se ee) ay at % =~ =

but when Miss| expressed that Leap Year came only| your seats in the spectators’
conies,

Feb. 26th. He will lecture on
that day as usual at 5 p.m. in
the Physics Theatre; also
Friday, Feb. 28th.
i

balThe meetings will be both
interesting and educational. All are

on
invited to attend. ,
    

ee he gee nae nen mana irae Ata aeh e a

— ee — } "
/

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Friday, February 21, 1936
<)

WE WANT! (|g C

One of the most continuous and Port KSS’ CORNER

Everyone has at one time or persistent of cries that has been )
another had to “put things off”.| voiced by man down through the CK
Some persons make it a regular | ages, since the beginning of time, | HQ

oe a ee Se
a rt a A ep a a ee
= a : “~
‘“ = r

a ee ds eel Ser» cicheiink cide ten te
a, .

 

 

Procrastination

 

 

i A a

“The Oldest College Paper in America”

   

Founded 1869.

  

Halifax, N. S. tiyg90 | habit, and it may become the worst | has been a cry of dissatisfaction. f
Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., pe» of bad habits. If it is caused merely From the intricacies of the stages A Ballad on Shirreff Hall
ae | EDITORIAL STAFF by slouchiness and a general laziness | of youthful development, when ‘one In this place called Shirreff Hall,
ae : Editors K | of mind and action, it has a destruc-| thinks of himself objectively until Dalhousie! Dalhousie!
. ; IRVING io tive effect upon the individual’s ef- the moment of his manly assertion
iz A ‘ oe B.2 fectiveness, to which nothing else is of independences, the burthen of his Are many lassies short and tall— :
a) etki Assistants BILL SUTHERLAND comparable. Did you ever meet a|Song 1s always — want . And = Ladies fair, ladies gay.
F ' LEN KITZ EDITH BLAIR Sports Editor | person who would never do things | that, always climbing, always fight- fl
E: 3 Society . Editor Literary Editor M eee DuBILIER | and yet be mindful of the fact that| ing for something lying just beyond The phone wt rang on secon floor, ;
MERLE PURTILL ELISABETH BALLE L. 3341 he was neglecting them? Such a|his grasp, olways dissatisfied? When Dalhousie! Dalhousie! ~
: B. 2148 Staff er ey person seems to have no conscience|that goal has been reached, and ne door
eos BEEN Assistant in the matter whatsoever and never|!onging for further reaches along A lass came rushing through the aoor—
Business et DOUGLAS Reaae attends to affairs. the Sead ete — such is Ladies fair, ladies gay.
_R. H. SUTHERL B. 57 ; f . young manhood’s activity.
| J ”* B 5487 ee ae ok abe ae Many of one’s actions, whether Mary Ayles was this lassy’s name,
CONGRATULATIONS thy of the |He is nervous. I have seen him eat eld poh agg ao Who through the door so hastily came.
Co-ed issue of last week is certainly wor y sit invent all manner of absurd excuses ee vee eM rtta ey 4 He’ll ask me to the dance, I think:
= t heartfelt congratulations of the whole vane me seriously. He will rationalize by the eon - ae ree re ul a af a ’ es
I beomoded the utmost expectations of even the ee hour because he is half-afraid to go| ~~ oe he weer Oh! furan I will wear my white—nay, MY PNK.
optimistic members of the staff. ‘The On with ee eee th Babee ars. ee She stopped her still before the phone,
: j delayed so long 1n com = fear lest it should fail or lest some-|* * a peg eae tee is lanl
is that the eS y We sincerely hope that your suc nae whoa ARE oMence at his ~for- Yet, how often have we heard And answered in a swee tly tone.
show of ae ae h eans of establishing a pre- Ne es eee ee ambition deplored by those who !
cessful attempt has been the m means of break- . ov oO .|seemingly have passed the “we And what was her delight to hear,
ears, and will prove a ; unknown person makes him shy like 3 i
gedeat: Fat ce nce which seems to characterise the liike a frightened colt, and a new! “@nt stage. Her name spoke by her true-love dear. if
ing down the retice : to the Gazette. ae ae eo. _| Ambition they say from out their
attitude of the girls towards contributing otel a ties stig for-| seit-eatiefaction is only for adven- He asked her how she liked the show
a ; . i , 7 .
HE STUDENTS’ COUNCIL ELECTION oi aa ca ork: rae veaasion | UTetS> in the worst sense of the He’d taken her to three nights ago.
‘Tt j

Students word. You should practice the con- .
WITHIN Neal beeen or a the game. | 2710s Which he had purposed to| _vative life, my boy. In knowing What’s wrong with ye tonight, my dear?
ee ee denta et Pa £ to this | PUY immediately. Tf perchance he! nat you want, getting it, then stay- Alas! ye have not taken me there
j asked to elec should be required to speak with a Tee ee ne Wd / .
ses. The students are @ Lec | : foe iS
Ss ne and two women who in oo Se er stranger, he will telephone when he oe e ed ies the joy O yest ma Hear Sou Race the sttoe
. e ex 7 . 6 . . hi lic oe és , . ; x. «
be able to fheae 3 pine ca 6 the Council must look - eal meee 2h be Try to apply this advice, however, Where ye gave me that sweet embrace.
. . . e ; ;
activities. Those who ar

: belongs to the ce : : : Me ae _| to those restless dissatisfied indivi- ‘ner | is i
after some eight thousand dollars which re Seats avoid him unconsciously in a thous-| 4). who have pieun. WO wedern Marie, O! she grew pale and wan,
and and one ingenious ways. Finally,

k after this money as 1 Ss mod aes Os suis
students. They must loo ; t they must : ; ; medicine, modern communication, She knew by that her love was gone.
: and yet they

their own; they must spend it carefully, y, Be phages: right: into the midst of modern production etc., and we see

; i ition is some- ge Bene ; : 7 eo Sea tee
satisfy each society. ” ee aaa Ok cera some stu- os ge ae Coen that for them it was only their dis- He made a grave mistake, ye see, ;
what anomalous, for in satis eh : the Council is spend- ee ets ee x ip oe _| Sotisfaction which made life inter- His words were to the wrong Marve.

ry dent or other is bound to thin . Re ay ae We ees ae esting, though at times mentally

; ting his toes in the water, but never Marie Ayl ‘as wn the past
too much money. ; baene: Marie Ayles was wn past,
Bes In the past, elections to the Council have taken the | arrives anywhere by that method, is

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

. eae Yet it is the recipients of the bene- Mary Allen he’d taken out last.
form of popularity contests. Students have afterwards | ang it is only when at long last he| «, sib ei e Coeur : a D e y t
or : : They approach the Gazette ; Saenly th ae s from such men, that army Pah haid Th cist df
| been sorry for their Se th aa are to blame See mer ee ere he peers Be passive onlookers, who try to dictate Mary Ayles was 2 exed sair,
; es , ‘ ; : : ‘ a :
. with a sob story ‘agen ee wan. alectad gets his |}¢ did mot enter before. The nerv.| “Pat Shall be done with them. Along And much envied her namesake fair.
It must be remembere ; Our institution is sup- ae 4 a eS ik q with this feeling of conservation and es a
through popular choice. procrastinator usually succeeds : All that night she could not rest
position roug d ocratic and it is for this Shel evant. bat self-satisfaction, goes one of taking # F : : ’
ss th = oh Te ich ee thas the Council as a whole bog poet reer many OPP°r=| things for granted. We take this Wi’ grief and spite she alway burst.
reason that each memper ou : “machine-age” for granted, if we
cannot please every student. oe ee Do Be date There is also the undecided pro-| jive ir a democratic country we take And now to every gay young man,
will not afterwards be sorry for your choice. erastinator. Lingering between two| q ace f avited. Sf ewer I pray you carry out my plan:
: z ; fraternity brother, or pee democracy for granted, if we have Y 7
for a man just because he is your irate y : possibilities, he frequently is too late

been born to wealth, we take riches :
2 careful when your dates ye make
for granted. Yet take away from Be caref whe yo y ;

fle octhisedin tambien Ma teaiate: aaa” And do not make so bad a break.
those agencies by which his existence And when for a fair lass ye fa,
is provided for, and at a certain mo- .

ment he is helpless, It is a coti- Be careful when ye call the ma.
comitant of this age of noise and |

he is a friend or acquaintance of yours. If he
otis tg vote for him; if he isn’t, see that he does pot
get your vote. In this way we will get the best Council
_ procurable.
eM one > igenes
_ )HE UNIVERSITY AND THE LAYMAN
LAST week the Gazette ran a news item which we are
sorry to say, we could not give the space it ee
because of the late hour at which we received the copy, the
broadcasts being given by the staff of the Dalhousie Law
iously. Ea ‘
Shas! oe “The Administration of Justice in Canada é
The object of these broadcasts, as outlined by Dean
MacDonald, is to “bring the University to the home’.
These lectures are characterised by two benefits: one 1S
that it is a way of conveying practical knowledge to the
layman; the other is of a great benefit to the Law School
in particular and to Dalhousie in general—it is a means of
telling the populace that we have a first rate school at
ie.
tee hess is made up of thirteen broadcasts and will
cover a wide field, ably elucidated upon by the four fulltime lecturers at the Law School. The series was opened
by Dean MacDonald last week, who gave a succinct and
cogent outline of the series. Last night Professor George
Crouse spoke on “Law in General”, and next week Professor
George Curtis will speak on “The Courts”.

We take this opportunity to congratulate the Law
Faculty on this admirable innovation, and for their conscientious effort to further the cause of education. It is a
fine precedent and may serve as a shining example to be
followed by other faculties on the campus.

to take advantage of either. He sees
too clearly. If asked to write an
article or give a speech, he spends
so much time deciding upon a subject that he is unable to devote sufficient time to his material. By

WERGETIEE and pondering and dis-|;ush that we seldom realize the
cussing all the pros and cons of

>" | significance of forces created by man
every situation that arises he is

> : Ps :
) oe as except, perhaps, when all man’s tools iY ft J ing YO 8 aA 3} o +4 aE TH E
always late in arriving at a decision, quit because their motive effort dis
and frequently he makes a wrong

| es | appears. BD) S if ji LL.
one because he has forgotten some The effect of the machine on man M i P N y Cc a \e : e va :
primary point in the midst of his|j, point about which most are in- . | (Ol: K
devious wanderings. While his in-| ¢}jned to disagree. To our “average H A A a a OF af |
esa. : rai ee aoe * man” the machine relieves him of AH FAD OF YOU |
oug o be firm wi imself and|many onerous duties " ‘. a. 78-8: Be
require that he make up his mind en "ehh dee 3 :
after a certain length of time. And yet, one cannot deny that the
Were he to do so he would be, and | tempo of living has been incredibly
usually does become, a great and|increased. How would our modern
respected thinker, for he always has | “average man’ adjust himself to
substance wherewith to support his|the quiet simplicity of life of the
decisions. When, however, he re-|eighteenth century, stripped of his
mains undecided, he deprives himself | machines and dependent upon his ORE
and his fellowmen of all the benefit | own efforts for what he had. “iA
which might be derived from his Sometime ago, the electrical sup- &
abilities. ply failed

 

enjoy his adventure wondering why

 

\
\

in a Connecticut town.

One procrastinator may be admir-| Water supply failed, the lights went
ed. He has developed that confidence | out, and the snow was so deep as to
in himself and in the orderliness of | make it impossible to reach the vilhuman events which enables him to|lage where food could be procured.
sit back calmly and watch the world
go by. Unperturbed, he sees things
passing rapidly from bad to ‘worse
apparently, and awaits their improvement, perhaps even lending a
hand toward the improvement, but
without excitement or pretence of
being a reformer.

(Continued on Page Three)

 

 

 

THE HOCKEY TEAM
LHOUSIBE’S part in the Hockey League for this year

is over. Though we lost the League championship, we
won something just as valuable: we feel that this year
witnessed a rejuvenation of the sport of hockey at Dalhousie. In fact, the sport had waned so low that there
was some doubt whether we would have a team in the
League at all.

But that old and sad story must be repeated again—
* it seems to be a disease common to all fields of sport at
Dalhousie—lack of student support. Hockey seems to have
been the worst suffered; on only one occasion was there
any show of support at all—that was the night when Dalhousie went on the ice at the top of the League. That
night a band turned out, several hundred students showed
up at the Forum, and it looked like a repetition of,the old
days; yes, it looked very much as if hockey was coming
back to its own. Unfortunately for Dalhousie and the game,
the next game was witnessed by a mere handful of spectators, and even the band, such as it was, failed to show
up. It merely brought home the fact that the students
are not interested in a team that loses a game. Dalhousie
students will not support a losing team. The old spirit of
sportsmanship which permeated Dalhousie in the years
gone by and which endeared the University to the hearts
of everyone who ever heard of the “College by the Sea’”’ is
gone.

The team is to be doubly congratulated for what it did.
The laurels they won was truly their own work; they made

an admirable showing, despite the unsportsmanlike exhibition of their fellow students.

lay in their event show that he was
far-sighted in awaited opportunity.
He leaves things to be done later,
but has them always in his mind so
that as the opportunity presents
itself his reaction to it is instan
|
taneous without to the average eye

Equanimity is his key to success.
His eye is unbiased, his outlook unprejudiced, his grasp of men and
affairs is firm. If you should meet
him he will tell you that things are
“so-so”, never wildly enthusiastic,
never unduly pessimistic. He knows
that life is worth living, that happiness and pain are obverse and reverse, that today’s rain means
tomorrow’s springing flowers, and
that all things in moderation bring
contentment. He has before him
always and everywhere the vision of
the “Golden Mean” which prevents
him from extremes of emotion.

appearing so. To most he appears
merely to take it all in his stride
unhurriedly and quietly.

Such procrastination is rare. It is
the result of much thought concerning the world and its inhabitants,
about the reactions of people; and
it results too from taking the long
view of history. Its basis is education, and it should be the mark of
the university man or woman. Unfortunately it is not always readily
recognizable among college graduates. Some day, may it be hoped,
that there will be not more procrastinators, but at least more of these
procrastinators who merely await
the opportunity, and are then so prepared for it that it does not seem as
though they are taking advantage of
a sudden opportunity, but of some- T i E R E S T
thing which had been there all the
time. Procrastination to such a per
con is never a thief of time. MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

His cheery countenance transforms
any company in which he may find
himself. He trusts himself and
reckons that 90% of the world is
similarly honest. He puts things
off until their time is ripe and then
does them quietly and without show.
Actions which at first appear ill|advised and productive only of de
   
  
    
 
   
  

ef

was regarded with

 

P
r
:

  

=

“The article in last week’s Gazette

a about the lack of courtesy in the
library touched some of the complaints long languishing in my

, A 5 _ Twice I have been informed that

-galalogued books were on the open
shelves. On both occasions I spent

ten minutes looking for these
volumes while my laboriously search
complacent
dignity. Would it have hurt the
composure of the stalwart on duty

to have plucked forth the book, as
it could have been done, in a jiffy?

Now, I am a brave soul. The dignity of the President causes me no
trepidation. The dexterity of the
Registar leaves me unmoved. But
I must confess my courage fails utterly to ask for assistance before
the stony stare of our help-mate.
(?) behind the desk.

The dearth of co-operation is appaling. Beat this, for example. An
honour student of Mt. Allison now
at the Law School, was chosen to
represent Dal in the forthcoming
Rodio Debate. He asked for six
books, the resolution being a wide
one, in ignorance of Dal assistance
in such cases. He was refused six.

He offered to compromise for three.

The Librarian was adamant. Beyond a solemn continuing shake of
her head, there was no reply. His
amazement overcame his justifiable
rage when he was turned away
with only two books. He was abso
Jutely refused the use of the stacks.

The purpose of the Library would
have found its expression if that student had been treated with co-operation and respect. A respect which is
the student’s right.

The ironical part is the Radio Debate Shield hangs proudly to the
right of the Library desk. The obstacles man can overcome!

GRADUATE.

_

Dear Editors

I wish to quote a few words from
page four of the last Gazette, which
I think give a clue to “What’s wrong
with Dalhousie?” They are as follows:—

“Dal Tigers dropped the opening game of the City League
play-offs to Sunocos by a 6—2
count, but they carried off all the
honors in the free-for-all slugfest
which came in the last period. A
certain Sunoco forward was sporting a pair of shiners as a result
of a few very nice rights by
Johnny Mullane.”

I see the word “honors” (spelt
“honours”, by the way) applied to
the fight that took place in the middle of the game. Further on I see
that the Gazette triumphs in announcing that one of the opposite
side “was sporting a pair of shiners”.

Do we need any further evidence
to show us the answer to the question so often asked in the Student
Forum: “What’s wrong with Dalhousie ?”

Is the present condition of Dalhousie due to that sense of fair play
and sportsmanship so typical of the
true British athlete? I fear not:
there seem to be very few Dalhousians today who even know what
ideals the British sportsman represents. Do British sportsmen, or, to
make it more general, do gentlemen
consider the “winners” of a _ free
fight in the middle of a game in the
least worthy of the word “honour”?

Moreover, do British sportsmen—
gentlemen, if you will—generally
triumph over an affair that should
bring blushes of shame to their
faces ?

I do not wish to be too hard on
the hockey team, for I feel sure that
the Sunocos started the fight. The
people I want to criticize are the
ones who sit in the stands booing
and the ones who uphold the
Gazette’s outlook on the matter.

We talk about this “college spirit”
business, but if the best brand of
“college spirit” we can scrape together is like that shown over this
hockey game, we are better off
without any at all; at least, the hocKey team seems to thrive better
without it, judging by its results in

the City League.

FRESHMAN.

RT.
a

Engineering
News

 

A certain prominent member of
the Engineering Society commenting
on this column, remarked that it
was no literary masterpiece. By
way of repartee we can only say that
he missed an excellent opportunity
to hold his silence; for those who
have nothing better to offer are in
no position to criticize.

This certain gentleman from the
land where men are mistakes and
cod fish constitutes the main portion of the diet, may however redeem
himself in our eyes by offering a
touch of his own literary skill.

* * *

A play in one act.

Scene: The drafting room in which
we find two of our habitual drafting
room lizards, Duzz and Duzzent
busily engaged at their work. As the
scene opens duzzent is apparently
having some difficulties.

Duzzent: “Confound this dratted
stuff!’ (This of couse is an extremely censored version of the actual
words used).

Duzz: “What seems to be your
trouble.”
Duzzent: “I can’t find the ‘Pear
son’ point in the second problem.”

Duzz: “Waugh”

Duzzent: “Are you deaf? I said
I can’t find the ‘Pearsion’ point in
the second problem.”

Duzz: “O.K., O.K., don’t yell so
loud you get me all ‘Ball’ed’ up.”

Duzzent: (glancing at Duzz’s
work) “Oh! I see it now.”

Duzz: “Yea, you see it after ‘Watson’ the way I did it.”

Duzzent: “Sure, so what? By
‘Watson’ you and I get my work
done ‘Forster’ than if I did it myself.”

Duzz: “Yes, but your work isn’t
very ‘Wel-don.’”
Duzzent: “Yeah, I guess you’re

right there. Say did you notice that
Prof. Theakston is raising h— about
the rheumatism again”

Duzz. “Rheumatism?
mean?”

Duzzent: “The other doy he looked into the drafting room after the
boys had been throwing stuff around
and said, ‘This rheumatism mess’ and
deducted twenty-five cents from the
lab. deposits of the whole ‘Carew’.”

Duzz: “Crimeonealies! (again
sternly censored, Where is this freedom of press they talk about?) my
deposit can‘t ‘Stan’ much more of
that.”

At this point the audience began
to throw over-ripe fruit, electric
light bulbs and assorted vegetables,
some of which they neglected to
neglected to take out of the cans;
as a result our two heroes were rendered unconscious (this refers to
physical unconsciousness the two
heroes having begun the play in the
mental state) and our little play
comes to an impromptu ending.

* a *

Some of our pretty Co-eds who are
wasting their own time and parent’s
money by going to college might be
more advantageously employed in
learning the art of cuisine. To quote
George Meredith, “Kissing don’t
last, cookery do.”

* Es

Whaddya

*

Part of the business contracted at
the last meeting of the Students’
Council was the appointment of one
man to regulate the time of class
meetings, etc., in order that there
should be no conflictions. How stupid it seems when the time of that
very meeting was clashing with that
of o basketball game at the gym?
What an efficient group? We suggest the Council follow the example
of Class ’38.

* * *

What brother and sister team are
two of the finest exponents in the
college of that ever popular game x
and o’e? We would rather not tell
in fear that we might mar their
good name, for they really should
be listening to the words of the professor. However we will say that
although we are unfortunately not
very well acquainted with the female
half of the duo, that she is a Fran
of George Murphy’s. We might also
mention that when they engage in
their favorite pastime it matters
little to them who Windsor loses.

* * *

Let anyone who happens to read
this (we heard from reliable source
| that two people read this column
‘last week, the author and the proof

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

      

SOMETHING TO
THINK ABOUT

 

When the United States Supreme
Court vetoed the NRA measures a
large section of the American populace accused the Court of conservation and of ignoring economic trends
when interpreting the Constitution.

There are two answers to such
charges. The first is that economics
and economic trends are little understood and are matters of dispute
even among economists. The second
answer is that the Judges are there
to interpret the constitution as it
is, a document based on the philosophy and economics of the early
eighteenth century. Their duty extends no further than this. They are
to give stability, not follow transient
economic fads.

When an economic trend is definitely established the means to adjust the political machinery to it lies
in the people themselves and not in
the Supreme Court—the power of
amendment.. With their voices the
people ask for the preservation of
their rights; yet with the same voice
they would surrender their rights to
a body of nine men and howl in protest when that body
accept.

*

x x

Under the guise of righteous indignation blasts of approbrium and
vituperation are once more directed
at the members of the Students’
Council.

The campaign is aimed at the
presence of that very virtue whose
absence these detractors, in another
breath ond for another purpose, lament, viz, vanity.. Mere vanity, they
say, impells the councillors to stand
for election. Once elected, having
achieved immediately the full honors
the position can bestow, there is no
purpose in attending Council meetings so consequently the duties of
office are neglected.

On the other hand these same detractors continually lament the
lethargy the students show in attending college games. Why does a
student attend such _ exhibitions?
Because if the Dalhousie team wins
he inflates his ego by associating
himself with its superiority. Vanity
again. Yet in one instance it is deplored and in another extolled.

Instead of ranting uselessly
against the stupidities of human
nature rather should these critics use
them to gain their ends. If they are
cincere let them produce winning
teams for the students and provide
an incentive for the Councillors to
turn out.

 

refuses to|be in an unenviable position.

——
EE

They might, for example, run pictures of each member present at
Council meetings, larger ones of
those who speak, and devote a full
page to the one who knows what he
is talking about.

*

*  *

One criticism levelled at the
League is that its purpose, or at
least the means it employs, i.e
sanctions, are directed to the preservation of the status quo; and
therefore, though it may stop the
individual war it can never be preventive of war.

A suggestion often heard today
is that, since the cause of wars is
the unequal distribution of raw materials among the nations, a redistribution of them is the solution.
A nation rich in resources would
either give some of them to countries highly industrialized but poor
in national wealth or else agree to
funrish a constant supply to such
countries at reasonable prices.

The first solution is impossible.
The donor nation having left neither
resources nor industry would
The
second is more interesting. But the
world economy, like that of nations,
is a capitalistic one resting on the
profit motive. Nations that have
tried to fix prices and regulate industry and labor have met with
failure.

The United States with its NRA
and the planned economics of the
Fascist States are examples. It is
said that there is no compromise be
 

 

__ Take |Your 2
EDICINE
SOCIAL CREDIT

The scheme of Social Credit may
yet encircle the earth, yet credit due
at the present must not go unmentioned. To this end T. Y. M. will
direct his few remarks,

Primarily we give credit to our
editors for the chivalry they possessed in giving the ladies an opportunity to publish the Gazette last
week. Credit to those Co-eds who
attempted its publication, and credit
to the Med. student who aptly expressed his opinion on its merit.
Quoth he “The Dalhousie Gazette is
the oldest College newspaper in
America, and last week showed
definite signs it had reached a glorious second childhood. That Valentine issue broke my heart.” What
assurance does Social Credit give
children ?

We congratulate T. Y. M. (The
Youthful Maiden) of the Co-ed edition—she reached a record low last
week. Don’t gigle, that’s not funny!
* *

 

*

“To err is human, to forgive
divine.” So it is with your columnist.
Probably he has made mistakes in
the past which at the moment did
not present itself as such Credit
him with his sincere efforts to please
his readers at least It is not an
easy task to represent a student body
the size of ours to the enjoyment of
all, and your help in that matter

is always welcome

* * *

Too much credit cannot be accorded the Students’ Medical Society
for the initiative they have taken
towards the issuing of a _ student
Journal They rallied in unanimity

tween Capitalism and Socialism so|to its support, knowing well the
perhaps the remedy is a communist} benefits which will undoubtedly ac
world-state.

a hoe

It is appropriate that coincident
with our co-ed edition the first newspaper in Halifax edited entirely by
women should make its appearance.
The Liberal Women’s News — “A
Square Deal for Every Woman”.
More interesting is the specific
reference to Dalhousie it contains.

The News advocates the establishment of a Summer School at Dalhousie modelled along the same
lines as that of Cornell. The resulting advertising would increase enroilment during the winter term
and thus do much to reduce the annual deficit of the University.

The merchants of Halifax would
also benefit materially. But tell us,
—was that sentence, “If Dalhousie
were filled it would mean an increased population” mere redundancy, or
was it a subtle feminine dig at the
male Dalhousian?

 

Pine Hill Holds Annual“‘At Home’”’

 

Once again the Pine Hill “At Apart from the food, the outstand
Home” has come and gone.
hurrying and bustling and last min
ute touches completed left a glow of | jivered to the P

soft lights and colors,
cosiness, which our staid and somewhat comfortless
Residence experiences but once a
year. Once again our halls were enlivened with the merry chatter, the
low laugh, the graceful figures of
the fairer sex. Pine Hill was “at
home”. '

When the decorations had been
duly admired or perhaps but cursorily glanced at, (some had no
doubt little time to spare for them),
the bell told that dinner was served.

 

reader) keep in mind that the author intends to keep the indentities
of these people a secret so do not
send in any inquiries as not even a

hint will be given.

x

What has been taking place on
the Clee Club Chesterfield that it

is so badly in need of repair?
* ac *

*

One member of the engineering
society (who has paid his dues) has
said that the purpose of the society
is to grant to engineering students
the privilege of purchasing a five
cent eraser for ten cents. Is not
the same privilege available to geology students sans the payment of
the $2.00 fee?

* * ®

“J don’t care how much a man
talks, if he only says it in a few
words.”

|

All the|ing feature of the dinner was the

number of telegrams which were deope during the meal.

comfort and| 4 surprising number of well-known

people, both of the past and of the

(in comparison) ‘present, found it necessary to reply

to the invitations sent to them. Amos
(no connection of Andy’s, in spite
of Dr. Mackinnon), Mussolini and
Haille Selassie, Lord Tweedsmuir,
and Mr. Aberhart, all expressed
their regret at not being able to attend, Amos with perhaps just a
shade too much emphasis.

The program presented for entertainment after dinner was a tribute
to the initiative and the hard work
of those who conceived, produced
and took part in it. The opera (in
two acts) entitled “Who Killed Cock
Robin?” occupied the attention of
the audience for the major part of
the program. Congratulatory remarks were heard on all sides at its
close, and not a few requests were
made that it should be repeated.

When the opera was ended every
one, except for those who were already there, took the hint of the
program sheet that refreshments
would be served in the Residence.
Both the refreshments and the brief
hour remaining were enjoyed to the
full.

There is little now remaining of
the 1936 “at home” except what
Barrie has called the “roses in December’’, our memories of it. It was
perhaps the most ambitious one ever
attempted; if so, it was assuredly
the best.

em lemme ecm ie fei eas iommnaricantiaa
eee
———

crue from its publication. It will
serve the student an opportunity to
acquire the technique in the preparation of scientific articles, and will
to no less degree add to the pres
- A ” ao \
aie y
D> Sf
Ox

   

 
 
 

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.” _.

Vee

CIGARETTES

Law and Pine
Hill in Wins
Law and Pine Hill emerged vic
torious from Interfaculty Basketball
fixtures on Thursday, Feb. 13, when

 

tige of our university. A most octive Law won a hard-fought match from

staff have been appointed to work
in collaboration with Mr. Gold, the
Editor-in-Chief. This staff is here
published for the first time.
* * *
ADVISORY BOARD
Dean Grant, Drs. K. MacKenzie,
Gosse, Atlee, Young, Smith and
Holland
Kditor-in-Chief—I. Roy Gold.
Assistant Editors — C. B. Stewart,
R. R. Strong.
Associate Editors__ Bob Dove, Sid
Lefkovies, R. W. MacLellan.
Managing Editor—Tobias Beeber
Assistant Managing Editor—George
Murphy.
Proof Readers—Bill Embree, Dave
MacIntosh.
Abstract Editor—Fraser Nicholson.

Alumnus Editor—Dr MacCurdy.
x *
Class Representatives

Ed. Murray, 37; Carl Trask, 38;
Miss MacIntyre, ’39; Abe Zelong, ’40.

The Journal will appear thrice
yearly, the first number, before this
April Ist.

* * x

T. Y. M. Gives Credit

—To genial Doe Roy for the success of the Glee Club in the recent
pneduction “The Haunted House.”

—To Dr. R. P. Smith in completing 17 pages of Pathology on Monday afternoon.

—To the persistence of Helen—
who even though she did not succeed
in finding Tony’s stray third molar,
did catch his bonny blue eyes.

—Two the perseverance of Bill Embree. He visited Amherst because
the lady could not Spare the time to
come to Halifax—Love drives Pathology away.

—To the harmony twins of the
Med. School, Dentsch and Horowitz.
Incidently hand out some more credit
to the latter for working two hours
overtime on Saturday at the pumps.
The ship won’t go down if Leo is
aboard,

—To Dr. Reid on his quick
diagnosis in the case of Squank
Dougan,

—To Dr. Mainland for his complimentary remarks about
column.

—To Betty for her lately acquired
politeness and for her charming
smile.

But glory be! T. Y. M. has given
to much credit. Next week might
find him in the hands of receivers.

your

Here’s hoping that they be ladies, |

Venus planned.

 

ne 
|

Arts and Science, while Pine Hill
was winning from the Freshmen.
The Law-Arts and Science game
produced the best basketball to date
in this league and was hotly contested throughout. The lawyers
seemed to have brought their shooting eyes with them, and it began to
look as though Arts and Science
would be snowed under, the score at
half time being 17—5 for the boys
from the Forrest Building.
However, during the second period
the Artsmen, led by Dith Fendell
and Sid Winter, made a great attempt at a comeback, but it was cut
short by the final whistle, when they
were still trailing by three points,
Law winning by a 27—24 score.
Smith with 10 points, and Connor
(Continued on Page Four)

WE WANT

(Continued from Page Two)

Here, a machine age had made
people dependent on a certain normal situation; any deviation from
this norm, and there was no going
back to the kerosene lamp and coal
stove, and the cellar full of food,
which existed only a few decades
ago.

With these more obvious effects
of dissatisfaction before us, how
shall we appraise the value of this
human drive? Shall we conclude
that machine progress e.g. will always supply our wants, that it does
not destroy something elemental in
human nature? However we resolve
the riddle, we must admit the value
of this primary drive in man, more
especially in such a stage as that
of the emergent college graduate.

We are the youth of the generation. We want!

 

After a Show
Or At Any Time

A Hot or Cold Drink,
a Lunch or Ice Cream
in a bright and pleasant place.

The Green Lantern

 

 

 
  
   
  
 
 
    
   
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
  
  
   
     
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

The most noticeable feature of the
game was the poor foul shooting of
both teams, the Tigers registering 6
out of 16, while the Wanderers
found the hoop for only two out of
the same number of attempts; so
‘that it was possible for either team
to win easily on foul shots alone.

Close checking and some fancy
shooting marked the first period,
which ended 18—17 for Wanderers.

Donnie Bauld, high-scoring star of
last year’s Tigers, was playing great
ball, and in this period scored 7 of
his team’s points, showing that he
has lost none of his scoring ability.
Ted Crease, Captain Mit and Donnie
MacIntosh were playing heads up
ball for Dalhousie, each registering
4 points.

ior HMoopsters —

ee ate? ae wail,
.. The Dalhousie Tigers lost their
_ first game of the current season, incidentally their first with any local
team in two years, to their ancient
rivals —the Wanderers — when the
Red quintette eked out a 32—28 verdict on Thursday, Feb. 13th, at the
Studley gymnasium.
Ken Chisholm, Reds’ intermediate
captain, was the hero of the hour
when, with less than a minute of
play remaining, he scored a pretty
one-handed shot from the pivot position and followed it a few seconds
later with another from close in.
Wanderers seemed to have a slight
edge on the play throughout the
game, slowing down the attack of
the Bengals and preventing them
from playing their usual fastbreaking game, and deserved to win.
Dal began to force the play from
the opening whistle and Doug Crease
registered the first score of the
game on a long snap shot. The
“Tigers seemed a little overconfident
and, except for one or two short
rallies, did not show their. usual
form.

 

SECOND HALF.

Mit Musgrave put the Tigers
ahead, on the resumption of play,
on.a nice pass from Shainhouse, who
had replaced Doug Crease, but Wanderers immediately took the lead
again as Oxley scored. Ted Crease
registered a nice one-hander as Dal
led, 21—20. Harvey Harris, Red
guard, was hurt when he crashed
into Donnie MacIntosh, and he was
replaced by Croucher. Bauld and
Oxley then scored in quick succession, to give Wanderers a 2 point
lead, and Bauld a moment later, intercepted a Dal pass, to dribble the
length of the floor for a_ basket
which Dal protested in vain.

White increased the Red’s margin
to 6 points as he scored a pretty
basket. Field goals by Serlin and
Shainhouse and foul shots by Ted
Crease and Musgrave tied the score
at 28-all.

The game began to get rougher,
and Oxley and White of the Reds
were banished, to be replaced by
Chisholm and Harvie Harris: Chisholm then scored from the pivot position to give Wanderers the lead,
and registered again a moment later
when left unchecked under the basket as the Tigers staked everything
on a power play up the floor.

Don Bauld, Ken Chisolm, and
Bink Oxley were outstanding for
the Wanderers, while Musgrave, Ted
Crease, Serlin and MacIntosh played
well for Dalhousie.

Late in the second period Oscar
Serlin twisted his knee, aggravating
an old injury, and this may keep
him on the bench for the next few
games, thus forcing the Tigers to
try still another starting combination. The lineups:—

Wanderers — Young 4, Oxley 9,
Chisolm 4, White 4, Bauld 11,
Croucher, Harris, Mitchell.

Dalhousie—T. Crease 7, Serlin 5,
D. Crease 2, Musgrave 7, Shainhouse
2, Green, Tokosh, Miller, MacLeod,
MacIntosh 5.

    
              
                 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

    
    

  
      

A Message to College Men
|

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a provision for the future, or contemplating the selling
of life insurance as a profession, you would do
well to consider the outstanding sixty-four year
record of The Mutual Life of Canada.

 

Communicate with our nearest Branch Manager
or our Home Office.

)

Mutual Life Assurance Company
of Canada

Established 1869. Home Office—Waterloo, Ontario

  
 
 


| 29th.

 

_haye selected AND RETURNED the proof des

space in the Year Book will be based upon the
graphs reported ONE WEEK before February

N.B.—This is NOT A WARNING. It isa mere

| : | | ss a it is an ESSENTIAL only to you.

eee

a .
; astete aia, te ae

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sports on Parade

 

Dalhousians and hockey fans took such interest in the city
senior circuit playoffs between Dal and Sunocos that the last
game was broadcasted. What happened to our team is still
unexplained, but we were literally swamped. Misfortunes play
havoe with Dal’s hopes always at a time when every expectation for victory is felt.

And now, with provincial playoffs scheduled to start Wednesday (last), Dal has been denied the right to play the third
game with Sunocos.

The Maritime Hockey Association explained that a clause
stating that should the provincial playoffs necessitate an early
start, which. was Wednesday, then the team winning two out
of three games, rather than three out of five, will be declared
the winner. At first these doings sounded akin to the bunglings
of the Canadian Amateur Hockey moguls.

Lightning pass work, with good timing, saw Dalhousie basketeers come within a few points of beating their traditional
rivals—the Wanderers. An able defender of its basketball
laurels, Dal progressed nicely until somebody forgot to guard
his man, so Chisholm scored the winning baskets. Constructive
comment about town has it that it’s just these little things that
go wrong and ruin Dalhousie’s chances.

We fared better at Mt. Allison when
‘meted out. Mt. Allison, in a very ungent
‘ever, took it out on our girls.
| In _a_ breathless free-for-all, Dalhousie
trimmed King’s, to hoist themselves one little step from cellar
position. During the first half, Dal tried vainly to add baskets
to King’s score—when our boys alternated in their shots

a decisive victory was
lemanly fashion, how
intermediates

Friday, February 21, 1936

COUNCIL HOLDS——

(Continued from Page One)

Frosh Win
Hoop Game

Arts and Science continued to lose
in the Interfaculty Basketball League
when they went down to defeat at

be appointed to meet a committee
from King’s to go into the question
of drawing up a new agreement re
the payments of students, and the

 

agreement regarding the football
the hands of the Freshmen last Sat- i a ; =
urday by a 26—24 score. The Arts- The Year Book is progressing

men controlled the play during the
first period, and at the halfway
mark had a commanding lead. After
the interval, however, the yearling
quintette made a great comeback
and nosed out the upper classmen by
a scant two points.

Play was rough throughout in cus
tomary interfaculty style, and two
from Arts and one Freshman were
banished for fouls. The game was
featured by a sensational basket by
| Kirshner from far out when the
score was tied at 24-all, and there
was but ten seconds of play remaining.
' Smith, Logie and Johnson were
outstanding for the Frosh, while
Winter and Weiner were the pick of
\the losers. The lineups:—

Arts and Science—Winter 4, Fendell 5, Weiner 6, Ross, Cutman 4,
Fiedelbaum 1, Tansky 4, Selikoff.

Freshmen — Wright, Johnson 7,

favorably, say the Editors. To date,
$750.00 has been collected from advertising, and $227.00 from subscriptions. Sales have been high among
the graduates, but the undergraduates have failed to give the book the
proper support so far.

BUDGETS.

; Mike Hinchey presented a budget
|to cover the boxing team’s trip to
U.N. B. Twelve men will compete,
and amount required being around
$100.00, the proceeds from the tour;mament providing the balance. Except for the flyweight division, the
squad is shaping up very well, and
‘four winners at least is expected.
|'To date, despite the vigilance of Mr.
|Hinchey, no flyweight has _ been
‘found.

Interfaculty sport required $117.00
\for the balance of the season. This
| year, individual awards will be given

 

both baskets—and Kin
ceded the game to us.

at; Kirshner 3, Logie 6, Smith 5, Mac
g's, with a gesture of nobleness, con-|Duff, Anderson, Piercey 5.

Referees—Sam Kerman and Babe

|to the members of the winning teams
|in an endeavor to foster interfaculty

Wanderers were not as ge

training to a ruinous jinx.
*

again after the Wanderers’
tainly did a marvelous job.
the fans certainly decided t
occured after the game, resu
to the effect that he would 1
the Dal floor again.
the cause and not a
will rescind the sta
again.

Possessed of every desire

running, the Halifax Badminton Club ove

and girls, to win by a 19—11 ¢

collegians can do no more than redee
for trophy victory formulate next

Congratulations, Miss Fras
certainly figured out that goal

at our heels and came from behind to
over our squad. There is apparently no

Misunderstanding towards th

herous. They proceeded to keep
score a second victory

comparison of careful

*

e referees came to the fore

game. Goudy and. Mandelstan cer- they snowed King’s under last FriDespite this, and the approval of
. . 7 g we s j > yy
his point, an ineffectual squabble Harry Gaum, sturdy Med twirler,
Iting in a statement by Bob Goud
1ever referee a basketball game on|* ae ye = - |
A strong but spirited will evidently was tive style, while Willet, had he had |
flare of poor sportsmanship. We hope Bob
tement, for the incident will never occur |

n

to oust Dalhousie from the title

rwhelmed our boys
Slated to meet again, the

m themselves and let hopes

year.

you did a wonderful job. We

elimination—eh, what!

ount.

er,
by

et

Cub Hoopsters
Win and Lose

The Dalhousie second team won
its first game in the Intermediate
League on Thursday, Feb, 13, when
they took the measure of the King’s
College five by a 30—18 score, thus
breaking a three-game losing streak
and leaving their opponents in undisputed possession of the League
cellar position.

The Cubs, with their usual disdain
for a team they consider a set-up,
started the game rather sluggishly
and were soon left behind. About
halfway through the period, however, they began to find themselves
and at halftime were within two
points of their rival] collegians, the
score being 12—10 for King’s,

The second half was begun cautiously on the part of both teams,
but at the halfway mark the Cubs
began to force the play and, encouraged by some fancy shooting by
“Rusty” Baird, lanky Dal centre,
they soon put the game on ice.

“Jock” Kent, Hutchins and Archibald showed up well for King’s,
while “Rusty” Baird led the Dal attack, scoring a total of 18 points,

 

with Maurice Dean putting up a

good defence. The lineups:—
King’s— Martell 2, Fraser 1, Humphreys 4, Kent 4, Smith, Van Horne,

Archibald 5, Hutchins 2.

Dalhousie—Lyall 4, L. Stewart, E.
Stewart 4, Murphy,

 

  

 

ired.

THEREFORE: All calculations and arrangements, allotment of

number of photo29th.

statement of fact.

YOUR face will be appreciated by us but please remember that

play was pretty even in the

—_—_—_——_—

Saunderson 3, nemesis,
Baird 18, DuBilier 1, Kerman, Dean.

DEADLINE -- 29th

February 29th is the last day on which FINISHED graduate
photographs will be received for publication in the Year Book.
It requires ONE WEEK TO FINISH your photographs after you

= ¥ Seanamatinnienbeltinig Ay
LAW AND PINE HIL,

CUBS LOSE SECOND GAME

The following Saturday the Cubs
again lapsed into their style of losjing close games when Wanderers’
| Intermediate won a three point decision from them, The Cubs, as they
usually do against a strong team,,.
played a smart, close-hecking game
during the first period, which was
featured by some fancy long shooting by Doug Lyall (Don Bauld style)
and at half time led the Red quin- |
tette by a 21—15 score. But in the |
customary fashion of all Dal teams
who cannot seem to be able to stand
any prosperity, they slackened up
during the second period, and when
Wanderers put on a power play during the last ten minutes the Cubs
went to pieces and the Reds quickly
cut down their lead and w
32—29 score.

Wanderers, by this win, retained
firm hold on second Place in the
league standing and remained within easy striking distance of the Y.
M. C. A., who at present are entrenched in first place, a single game
ahead of the Reds. Thus, if Wanderers turn the tables on the Association five in their next meeting and
So go into a tie for first place, the
last game of the schedule, that between the Dal Cubs and the Associa- |
tion quintette will turn out to be
all important to the two leaders,

The Cubs, by this defeat, have now
lost even a mathematical chance to
win the league. Ken Chisolm, Reds’
skipper, continued to be the Dal
scoring 5 baskets and 3
foul shots to lead the scoring, while
Doug Lyall and “Rusty” Baird turned in good games for the losers.

o

(Continued from Page Three) |

 

on by a

 

 

with 11 led the attack of the lawyers, while Winter and Fendell were
outstanding for the losers. The lineups :—

Law — Smith 10, Richardson 2:
Connor 11, MacKeigan, Gunter 4,
Weber, Thompson.

Arts and Science—Ross, Kore
Reardon, Fendell 8, Greenburg, Weiner 5, Winter 11, Feidelbaum.

Referees—Musgrave and Hodson.

*

 

tsky,

x

Pine Hill continued to win, thus
keeping pace with Dentistry,
they defeated a disorganized F
man team by a 22-192 count.

when
reshThe
first
Period, with neither feam showing

y

 

  
   

| Sport.

Badminton was again turned down.
|The general feeling was that no
benefits might be gained from sending a team to Mt. A., and that better
competition could be secured in the
city. On motion of Manning, seconded by Barton, the budget
turned down without
| vote.

i Stewart.

MEDS TRIM KINGS

15—4.

,

Medicine retained first place in the
Interfaculty Softball League when
; 5 da was
ay evening by a 15—4  score.| . ;
a dissenting
was on the mound for the doctors “ al and pitched in his customary effec- mORTO Day p SIS GES PECESOUSI NE,
very well. This year an atttempt
some support from his teammates, 5 being made xO ok real Dalwould have done a much better job, ae ee? ae xe ms A ee
and the final score would have been | +“& A a will = ts cers om
mich: closer: ee ‘a PESBES, on a at
Interest in interfaculty softball all b AY te e a friend, but others
Seems to have died out, especially | W142 turned away.
i a re nn | Sines Medicine and’ Law are the only
any real form. But with the score | two who can field a team worthy of
11—9 against them at the halfway | the name.
mark, the Musgrave-coached outfit The doctors took control from the
went to pieces and during the last start, scoring 6 runs in the first inn20 minutes the Theologs took Sci
and in which they pushed their runs
Hart, Logie and Kirshner were the |across the plate.
pick of the losers, while MacDonald, Gaum, Horowitz and Miller were
scoring 9 points to be high scorer outstanding for the doctors, while
of the game, was outstanding for | Hutchins and Graven were the pick
the ministers ~ The lineups:—
Starting Saturday
February 22nd

 

ing and scoring in every other inntage of this to score almost at will, ing except the fourth, while it was
winning by a 10 point margin, while

not until the fifth inning that the
the best the yearlings could do was Kingsmen were able to score at all
a lone field goal and a penalty.

‘of the losers.

 

 

 

 

 

Birks Diamonds-
Flawless, perfectly cut,
sparkling diamonds
have for years spread
the fame of Birks.

 

KE. Phillips Oppenheim’s
Supreme Spy Adventure

“The Great

Impersonation”
with
EDMUND LOWE

Today the same breath
taking beauty is featured in new mountings — at surprisingly
moderate prices, too.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

See ee ee
CAPITOL -- NOW

ANOTHER MILLION DOLLAR M. G. M. HIT

“A Tale of Two Cities”

with
RONALD COLMAN
ELIZABETH ALLEN
EDNA MAY OLIVER
BASIL RATHBORNE
AND A CAST OF 49,000.

EXTRA!
AUDIOSCOPIKS

Biggest Novelty Since Talkies.
A 3rd Dimension Sound Film Sensation.

Plus 3 Shorts!

 

 

 

 

 

—————

PLAIN OR
CORK TIP

 

COSTLIER MILDER TOBACCOS
Buy your Crested BRITISH CONSOLS at the Tuck Shop
———$—$—$—$——— tt tne Tuck Shop

 
