 

C

Bt

 

 

ar,

 

iy

i
.
.
-—
*
=

,

 
 
  

|
|
|
|

Wa the Dalh us

4 = ie
£ wai dy

ih

ata
re

£

7 + ?
« -" aT
‘ia

2 ae

“=

 
  

| | sonally signed. The personal name

oe
‘s ¥

 

=

APSDULNOANSNTANOLLSASE ATAU

rte.
VOL.

 

 

FEAR CLIQUES
MAY DEVELOP
IN UNIVERSITY

Charges have been laid during the past few weeks that
a number of hotsy-totsy seniors, juniors and sophettes
at the venerable institution christened Shirreff Hall, have
been “high-hatting” their lesser and newer housemates
during the past few weeks, until the predicament has
several of the young freshettes of the university in a
rather puzzled, angry and tearful state.

Investigation by the representative
of the Dalhousie Gazette reveals
that the situation is in some cases
true, and that a “creed-race-financial
position-social standing” complex has_
been developed by a number of the

    

  
    
 

Neoel 5

 

As t with policies of
e Gazette will not

publish letters that are not per
pursuan

 
     
    

| will not be published if so desired,
| but for the protection of the paper the name must be given in
| confidence.

 
   
     
   

  

| “And thus will the young lady

who signed herself “Freshette”’,
and who wrote in defence of the
welcome at Shirreff Hall, please
communicate her name in confidence to the Gazette editors?
Please.

 
   
     
   
   

Shirreff Hallites. According to those
interviewed by the Gazette, a certain

haughtiness has made itself felt
during the past few weeks, as was
evinced on October 4th in a letter
from one of the girls.

And, according to further inquiries
made by the Gazette, following the
letter, the embargo on conversation,
welcome and general good feeling is

(Continued on Page Four)

 

 
   

  

ELECTIONS

Balloting in by-election for the
vacancy on the Council of the
Students will be held in the west
entrance of the Gym on _ this
Oct. 17th, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.

 
   
       
   

 

INTERFACULTY EVENTS
SOON TO COMMENCE

 

Within the next few days, the
Dalhousie University interfaculty
football league will get away to a
flying start at Studley, when five
teams will compete in the league.
The games will be the opening gong
in the interfaculty list of sports and
plenty of action is expected.

Officials at the University are
hopeful that the students will see
their way clear to give the support
unstintingly to the interfaculty
events, and that, contrary to the

usual procedure, the grandstand will
be dotted here and there when the
interfaculty lads tussle for the title.

- (Continued on Page Four)

Tigers Battle V

Results

 

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA

 

Wanderers

TIGERS EXPECT

PICKED FOR TEAM

Smith Mclvor and Irving Selikoff will represent Dalhousie
in the debate with Bishops—Western Ontario University. The debate will take place on November 7th. MclIvor is a second year Law
student and Selikoff is enrolled in Arts and Science.

The two speakers were chosen Tuesday night after the final
competition was held in the Arts Building. Unsuccessful speakers
were Harvey Webber, Simon Webber, Sandy MacPherson, Babbitt
Parlee and Innes MacLeod.

DAL GRADUATES TO BE
OUT IN FULL STRENGTH

|

Dalhousians all will welcome the |
announcement, mingled as it must be |
with a slight morsel of chagrin, that!
the alumni and alumnae of Dalhousie
University are coming “to the rescue
of the football team” and will commence their campaign for greater
participation in support of the team
on Saturday, when the Dalhousie
Tigers will tackle the Halifax Wanderers for the first time this season,
at Studley campus.

Despite the fact that there was a
fine turnout at the last game, Dalhousians may well take a lesson from
the fact that more than 200 grads
are expected to take their seats in
a special section of the grandstand,
with their own cheer-leaders out
front to urge and egg them on.

The two things are:— Love for their alma mater is the

(1) Dalhousie students, at least|reason that the alumnae and alumni
those who voted, want to punish (Continued on Page Four)
Italy but don’t want to have any
part in the punishing. One daily

paper’s editor-in-chief told The} Freshie-Soph Hop

Gazette that the occurrence remind
ed him of Mark Twain when that Tomorrow Night Bree

(Continued on Page Four) A play will be presented, followed
Hostilities between Freshmen and

by a good chorus, with several outstanding soloists. Another feature

1 1 Freshmen Taste Sophomores will cease at the Nova

Bitter Punishment Scotian Hotel tomorrow (Friday)

of the evening will be the introduction of a male quartette from the

night, when the uniting effects of

camaraderie and dancing will be

ranks of the frosh.
much in evidence. It will be the oc
casion of the annual Freshie-Soph | Student’s Council
dance.
Dance Success

angry mentors for failing to wear| Many collegians are expected to|
their regalia, and other offences. favor this big event of the year with |

They were forced to don pink and | their presence and a fine program |
white aprons, and these must be/jas been arranged by the Sophoworn, while on the campus, until the | more’s dance committee, which is led
last class Friday afternoon. Several by Fred B
of those punished publicly
freshettes.

 

 

 

 

FIELD DAY
SPORTS

Plans are announced that the
interfaculty field day sports will
be held on Wednesday, Oct. 30.
A good card of events is being
arranged and five faculties will
take part in the program. All
students are requested to get behind the meet and bring out all
available talent.

Freshmen In

Show Practice

 

Dal Vote
Gives 2

 

 

Dalhousie’s peace plebiscite has
come and gone. Two things remain as aftermaths of the famous
ballot that made the front pages
of city extras and which gave city
newspapers several anxious hours
when Council heads failed to come
through with the information.

 

Practices for the Freshmen Show,
to be held within the next few weeks,
are going ahead apace and the present plans the line up to be some
 

 

 

 

 

Eleven freshmen tasted the punishment of the sophomores this week
when they were haled before their

 

 

More than three hundred students
| danced to the music of Laurie Hart

Pa a. aks | and his boys, at the Student Council
arton and includes Mable | Rent tet

ities ae s idance last Thursday night.
McKenzie, Jean Fitzgerald, Bill Moss dance, and, unlike most gymnasium
and Roland Hurst.

a long while has so much enthusiee Ge en asm been shown at a Dalhousie

Dal Suffers Its

First Defeat

affairs, everybody seemed to be having a good time.

One of last year’s councillors was
heard growling about “the bum
lunch served” and “the banquet we
served at our dance last year”. However, after considering the price of
admission, he finally admitted he
was getting his money’s worth.

The chaperons were Mr. and Mrs.
Murray MacNeil and Mr. and Mrs.
Fletcher.

  

 

 
 
   
    
    
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
    
  
   
   

Dalhousie experienced her first defeat in American football when Quinn
of St. Mary’s hurled himself into the
air, intercepted a forward pass on
Dal’s 30 yard line, and dashed wildly through a score of Dal men for a
touchdown in the last fifteen seconds
of play.

Both teams played a fast, flashy

  

BALLOT
RESULTS

The result of the peace plebiscite held at the University last
week was as follows:

For Against

For economic sanctions 444 16

SE

enthusiasm for this sport in Hali
 

For military sanctions 205 235 game as the ball moved up and down | fax. Coach Mandelstain intends to
For support of league the field, following punts, passes,|put the boys through numerous ef
by military measures 175 277 fumbles and intercepted laterals end | fective new plays for the game on
For participation in forward passes. Dalhousie threaten-| Thanksgiving Day, which will prob
MES, CiWiric a Cais eaea.o' 157 289 ed St. Mary’s twice, but was met by|ably be played on the Dalhousie
Dotsl number -vodbe. .. dee a stonewall defence. gridiron. Practices will be continued
Total student body... 850 The Dal-St. Mary’s American foot-|at 12 to 1 p.m. every noon on the

ball game has revealed the profound| Dal field.

   

  

SCOTIA, OCTOBER 17, 1935

 

what similar to last year’s fine en-|

 

Freshettes Charge Favoritism

UAMUOVLUDUUUUULNOOUO TON OOQOEEDOTDU ELAN SD UCU

 

Support
Your
Team

 

IQSOQUQ0COUEUEPOUTOEOUUUV OOO AASOVEN PLEA

 

 

 

BIG VI

field this Saturday promises

 

ing section and endeavoring

No. 4

 

 

CTORY

ON SATURDAY

The annual Dal-Wanderers’ football classic slated for

to be the outstanding game

in years. With the Alumni Association organizing a cheer
to show the students what a

college spirit means, the largest crowd in many a moon is
scheduled to put in an appearance to witness the renewal

British
Profs in
Dal Visit

Five members of the party of
British educational directors, who
arrived in Halifax this week, their
visit marking the 25th anniversary
of the Overseas Education League,
addressed several hundred Dalhousie students, and were the
guests of the University at lunch
in Shirreff Hall, on Tuesday.

 

 

 

|

Introduced by Dr. Carleton Stanley, E. M. Rich, education officer for
London, brought greetings from his |
own alma mater, the University of |
London, to the students of Dalhousie. |
Dalhousie was fortunate in having
such spacious buildings and grounds, |
he said. London University was |

 

 

temporarily housed, pending the con- | SPeare

these ancient city rivals.
The Reds withstood a severe test

in holding the champion Acadia Axe
|
|

| men to a scoreless draw on Saturday

last in Wolfville and will enter Sat|urday’s battle slight favorites over
the collegiate fifteen. The Tigers
have been idle since their defeat at
the hands of the Acadia team, but
have shown much improvement in
practice under the driving influence
of Coach MacDonald and stand a fair
chance to take their first victory of
the current campaign from the Wanderers.

The crowd of fifteen hundred that
witnessed the league opener here
| two weeks ago will be supplemented
\by Wanderers supporters and a large
| block of Dal Alumni. It is hoped
|that the Dal cheer leaders will not
give up the ghost after the miser
(Continued on Page Four)

Commences His

Shakespeare Series

A series of addresses on Shakeand his plays

 

 

was com
struction of new buildings, the | menced on Tuesday evening at

speaker said. |

 

King’s College by Prof. Burns Mar
Prof. Clarke, of McGill University, | tin, when he addressed students and

pees also was a member of the staff | others on “The Age of Shakespeare”,
of the Halifax Summer School, wil] ; The following lectures will be given:

be a member of the education de
partment of London University, Mr. |

Rich stated. |

A graduate of the same college as

| Dr. Stanley, New College, Oxford,

F. H. Toyne, educational officer for
(Continued on Page Four)

Oct. 29, “Romeo and Juliet”; Nov.
12, “Richard the Second”; Noy. 26,
“Juliet Caesar”; Dec. 10, “Hamlet”;
Jan. 7, “Othello”; Jan. 21, “King
Lear”; Feb. 4, “Macbeth”; Feb. 11,
“Antony and Cleopatra”: Feb. 18,
“Coriolanus”’,

 

PROF. BUR
SUPPORTS

Dal Registration
Shows Increase

 

 

In all faculties registration shows
an increase, figures released by University officials show.

As against 812 students registered |
last year,
totals 846. Freshmen registration
last year was 223, while this year
totals show 250 are registered.

Due to a drop in registration at
King’s, the announcement says, ac
tual registration in Dalhousie is thus
still greater.

 

registration this year

NS MARTIN
PRESIDENT

Following President Carleton
Stanley’s denunciation of the
type of music and dancing indulged in by Dalhousie University students, Prof. Burns Martin advised freshmen, at the
first of a series of Frosh lectures last week, to develop a
better sense and appreciation of
art and music.

 

Another point stressed by the
speaker was the advisability and importance of developing the art of
conversation, brilliant conversation
which would be an asset to them in
their later life. Prof. Martin de
(Continued on Page Four)

 

 

:

 
    
  
 
     

 

|
|

———————ee——aees eee os ee

- Spe SS - =
% =

| ; ae IRVING PINK
N. GREEN
B. 4148 B, 2442
News Editor
‘ PHIL SARGEANT
H-298 J |
Society . Editor Literary Editor Sports Editor
MERLE PURTILL ELISABETH BALLEM TED CREASE
B. 2148 Staff Artist B. 5787
C. F. BENTLEY
Business Manager Assistant
J. R. H. SUTHERLAND DOUGLAS CREASE
B. 5487 B. 5737

- Pennant, while a loss will more or less end Dal’s football hopes

only is it the last home game of the season, but we will also

may happen.

EDITORIAL STAFF

Eee

DAL VS. WANDERERS

This Saturday the Dal Tigers will play their last scheduled
home game of the season when they meet their age-old rivals,
the Wanderers, on the Studley gridiron. As far as the Tigers
are concerned, this is the important game for them. A win
will definitely put them in the running for the City League

for the season.

This game will be a gala event on Studley campus. Not
see a number of innovations. The band will be out once again
and the cheer leaders will be there, too, all urging your vocal
support. Then the alumni promise to bring over two hundred
strong to bolster the Dal cheering squad, Altogether we should
be able to bring out the best fighting spirit that the Tigers
have. Be sure to get out to the game to do your bit. You
showed just what you could do two weeks ago. Keep up the
spirit and at least a good time will be had by all.

THE DAILY PRESS AND PROPAGANDA

The power that the daily press wields is well known to all.
Whether it is beneficial or not is a question which has been
debated ever since newspapers first made their appearance.
Everyone is willing to go so far as to admit that the press is
a powerful factor in moulding public opinion and that is really
what matters most. There are two channels into which public
opinion may be directed, namely, harmful and beneficial. When
matters of public and international importance arise the press
should be expected to sacrifice petty headlines for public good.
But is such the case?

During the past few weeks we have seen examples of exactly what is meant. The daily papers have been carrying
screaming headlines of “unofficial” happenings in the war between Italy and Ethiopia. They feature prophecies of what
They state the plan of attack before it is truly
known. It is true that this may make interesting reading for

a while, but there comes a time when public sentiment begins

to be aroused. People become war conscious merely because
each paper they pick up is screaming “WAR” at them.

The effect of this is bound to be harmful, especially to
peace-loving people like the Canadians. Canada is not bound
by the League Covenant to participate in any foreign war.
Canada’s safest position lies in strict pacifist ideals. Would it
not be more beneficial if our daily papers preached “Peace on
earth, good-will towards men’, instead of suggesting that Great
Britain would only be acting on the defensive side if she would
step into aid Ethiopia, or further suggesting that the British
Empire is decadent, and that Mussolini has his eyes on usurping the glory of our great Empre. Statements such as these, |
read by millions of people each day, can have no other effect |
than to make our nation war conscious.

Would it not be more satisfactory if our daily press gave
both sides of the story; if the aims and ambitions of our Empire were also stated; and if sometimes we were told that the
stand that our government s taking is not exactly the best one.
In this way, instead of building up public opinion which is
biased and almost reaching a state of ignorance, we would find
a well-informed public whch could see that the other man, too
has a side to his story.

During these days of extreme freedom of the press in|
Canada and, in fact, all over the British Empire, the press
should be really kept free. But nevertheless there is a time
when front page headlines could be very well placed in small
print in some inside page, and there let it attract notice if it
will. If it will not then no harm will be done. In this way
many more people will go about happily minding their own
A and many lives would be saved from the’ horrors
of war.

,

 

PEACE PLEBISCITE AND PUBLICITY

Last week, despite the election propaganda and the ItaloEthiopian dispute, the little world of Dalhousie received a great
deal of beneficial publicity. The student body, the citizens of
Halifax, and all who read the papers were vitally interested in
the peace plebiscite The local newspapers followed the trend of
the Gazette and played the matter up.

But the sponsors acted rashly. Unofficial results, so-called,

_ were given to the local papers, and these were published in an

almost matter of fact manner, with the result that interest in
what promised to be and what should have been a big thing to
the student body and to the University has waned to such a
degree that the Gazette is now in no position to play the matter
up again.

if the results had been held for the Gazette it would have
received the publicity it deserved first from the college paper
and would then have been featured again by the newspapers.
This should have been done ,for there is no more effective way
of creating a sentiment of peace in any community than by
having it played up by the newspapers.

    
   
 

      
 

STUDLEY CAMPUS
Adm. 35¢ or Students’ Council Ticket.

    

mL

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

BACKSIGHT

AND

FORESIGHT

THE
PENDULUM

AND HOW IT SWINGS

   

 

Sorority rushing is with us again.
These sorority parties, which nobody
enjoys going to, not even the girls
themselves! What useful purpose do
sororities serve, anyway? We have
heard many arguments advanced,
but we fail to see that they hold any
more water than a sieve. It is all
right to say that if the girls want
to sit in little catty groups, meowing behind each other’s backs, it is
their own business. But we cannot
see that the promulgation of the art
of gossiping and being spiteful ever
did anybody any good, least of all
Dalhousie.

Some good is done, to be sure, in
bringing together the town girls and
the Hall girls, but that benefit is
more than outweighed by the evil of
splitting the Hall girls themselves
into a number of petty arbitrary
groups.

 

What price a change in the party
controlling the government of Canada? An examination has already
been made of the situation in regard
to social welfare legislation, which
has disclosed the sudden rise to
prominence of this subject since the
World War. Furthermore, it has
been pointed out that the support
of such legislation appeared for the
most part to be based upon selfishness, not necessarily of a reprehensible kind. What has been the history of such movements, and what
will be the future of the present
movement ?

In patriarchal days, to go back no
further, certain rules for the wellbeing of the family were observed.
These rules were based upon what,
in the long run, must have been the
balance of convenience for the majority. In especial it was Paconniced |
at an early period that the old folk |
were frankly a nuisance in the family group and the sooner adequate
disposition was made of them the
better. Likewise it was realized that
male children were more suited for
certain functions than female, and
according as one or the other function need be fulfilled so consideration was given to the health and upbringing of the male or female children of the family.

% * *

There is at least something to be
said for fraternities. Though beset
by many evils, they perform a very
useful function on a campus on
which there is no men’s residence.
But, as far as we can see, sororities
have all the evils of fraternities in
their most aggravated forms without their benefits. Perhaps we are
being too cruel; perhaps a mere male
should not presume to mind the
girls’ business; perhaps we had better shut up if we entertain any
hopes of attending any sorority parties next year.

pre it Next, take a glimpse at one par‘ticular period of classical times, and,
having omitted consideration of the
Greek states and their ideals of government, consider the reforms proposed and carried into effect by the
Gracchi and their successors in the
Roman Republic. Corn laws, agrarian settlements, provision for the
poor of the cities, extension of the
franchise, how modern they all seem,
how democratic, how social!

What. then of the Christian Church,
especially during the first 12 or 13
centuries of its existence? Undoubtedly its attendance upon the poor,
its aid to the farmer, its hospitalization and care for education were
matters which today are generally
classed under the heading of social
welfare. The work has continued
until the present, but has been carried on side by side with other and
more spectacular agencies.

Speaking of rushing and fraternities, one of the most irrational things
the present writer has ever encountered is the present system of fraternity rushing. It is probably
pretty difficult to bring the social
and professional fraternities to an
agreement with regard to the professional schools, but surely the nonprofessional fraternities could get
together with regard to the Arts
school. At the present time the
freshman is rushed and initiated before he has a fair chance to know
what he is letting himself in for;
and, vice versa, the fraternity may
be kicking itself in a few weeks for
ever persuading him to join.

In many universities rushing is
forbidden until the second year, as
is the case with our sororities. Such
an idea is perhaps a little radical
for immediate adoption with us, but
surely some order might be brought
out of the present chaos, and some
of the present ill-feeling and frequent misunderstandings prevented.

On some campuses, for instance, a
freshman may not be invited to any
fraternity more than three times, in
that way preventing the practice of
mobbing a freshman, so that he has
no chance of seeing other fraternities. We do not think that an Interfraternity or Pan-Hellenic Council is
necessary; why bring in another organization to perform this one small
duty? All that is necessary is for
the social fraternities to get together and reach some amicable
agreement. Surely it is not impossible for supposedly intelligent col
lege students to solve this problem.
3

The guilds were probably the
most efficient trades unions ever in
existence. Communistic in the better sense of the term, they assuredly
were in many respects. Once admitted an apprentice, a steady living, pensions, insurance (in effect)
for dependents, education for children, all these and more were assured to members. Each individual
member was entitled to the best
that could be obtained, for there was
a pride in the whole which could be |
maintained only by the continuance
of a uniform standard of good for
each member.

Passing lightly over the intervening period during which nationalism
arose as a mighty force throughout
the civilized world and the nearest
approach to social measures came
from beneficent monarchs, there is
Studley Library the other day doing’ seen to arise that organization coma ene ce eas to|monly known as parliament. Here,
wit, his contribution to the Dalhousie | jt ge J. was the answ ery
Gazette. Suddenly, in the middle of | ee tery
the last paragraph, his pen went|
dry. Frantically he looked around
him, hoping to see a friend from

 

The writer was seated in the

prayer. Democracy, widening gradually from strict property qualification to present day minimum qualification, brought forth such highwhom he might borrow a few drops sounding terms as “representative”
of ink, but to no avail; he was sur-|and “responsible” government. In
rounded by a mob of arrogant fresh- ithe representative assembly of the
men. /nation was to be found the cure-all

The thought occurred to him per-| for the ills of the country. The Rehaps the Library authorities had fol-| form Bills of the last century were
lowed the example of most civilized | admitted to be long steps toward
universities in recognizing their duty |}the millenium when none should be
to supply students with ink in emer- neglected, when all should prosper.
gencies, and he thereupon approach- | Legislation in regard to employment

   

 

 

ed the desk with his humble request, | and the alleviation of suffering were
but was politely informed that such|the forerunners of the present movewas not the case. ment which is of such importance in
I am not joking—this is a serious| Canada now.
question, I would go so far as to! ‘Then came the World War. With
suggest that if the Library Board|the passage of time, of course, it
(Continued on Page Three)

 

Thursday, October 17, 1935

SOMETHING TO
THINK ABOUT

quickly can Germany accelerate re
  
   
   
 

 

   
   

Last week Japan took advantage
armament and realize her ambitions
—seizure of Austria and the redemption of the pre-war colonies.

of the world’s preoccupation with
the Italian crisis to despatch destroy
ers to Hankow and Swatow in South
China in protest against alleged
anti-Japanese propaganda. Meanwhile Japan consolidates her position in North China by forcing the
Nanking government to replace the
local government there with Japanese puppets. As the China Times
picturesquely remarks, “China is like
a piece of pork waiting to be
carved”,

 

Medical students will read with
interest, “Man, the Unknown”,
wherein Dr. Alexis Carrell sets forth
his panacea for the world’s ills.
Civilization can be saved, he asserts,
by setting up a Council of Doctors
who would rule the world and to
whom the political leaders would
come for orders. Perhaps they
would be more successful than the
present politicians; but wasn’t there
a revolt against Dalhousie’s own
Council of Doctors?

 

Every Sunday morning the University of St. Lawrence provides its
female students with breakfast in
bed. The Dean says, “It is a little
luxury that I think every woman is
entitled to.” Miss McKeen probably
thinks it is too great a step from
milking the cows in the morning to
breakfast in bed.

 

Opponents of the League of Nations
allege an agreement between Italy,
France and Great Britain, whereby
the League will enjoy a public victory while Italy quietly makes off
with the spoils. Italy is to keep her
conquest within moderate limits, respect British interests in Ethiopia,
and endure without armed protest
the economic and financial sanctions
which the League must impose to
save its face. France and Britain

 

Since 1933 economic recoveryy in
Germany has undoubtedly gone further than in any other country. This
is largely due to the huge public
works schemes and the large scale
rearmament. Opinion is divided as
to the political consequences of this| are to prevent the voting of military
recovery. The better opinion seems |and naval sanctions and overlook the
to be that the more favorable eco- | private smuggling of arms and munomic conditions become the more nitions to Italy.

 

must become of less significance
than our fathers thought it, the generation that trod these college halls
before us, and which today oft-times
cannot see eye to eye with us in our
college and external activities. With
the War came a great turning-point
in many ways. The world has
changed greatly. Not as the common man of the nineteenth century,
who himself asked for reform in order to attain complete happiness,
albeit the words were placed in his
mouth, but with direct and definite
assurance that the world should
never be the same the soldier went|only seemingly to disappear thither
to war to fight for King and Coun-| again with but a slight trace left to
try and also for Peace, Happiness,|note its accomplishments. At what
and the New Order of Things.| point of its are is it now so far as
“Make the world safe for Democ-| Canada is concerned, and what does
racy” was the cry. Once crush the|the immediate future hold? The
enemy in the trenches opposite and| problem is a serious and vexing one,
the promise would be fulfilled that! presenting itself for solution, a task
there should be no more suffering,|by no means easy, but in that soluwant, or pain, no more unemploy-/tion lies the future of Canada and
ment or penniless old age. The re-|of her people.

sult? Every one knows the answer.
The promises were incapable of fulfillment. The past decade and a half
has been a struggle both nationally
and internationally in some measure
to implement those promises so glibly made and so frequently repeated.

“If ye break faith with us who died
We shall not sleep though poppies
grow
In Flanders fields.”

From time to time the pendulum
has swung, arising from nowhere

SS

 

 

PARTY TIME IS HERE

 

 

Formal Evening

Wear - - 
To be in the social swim one must have a dinner jacket
or a suit of tails. We are featuring a smartly tailored
Tuxedo Suit with Silk Vest at $25.00, complete.

Others at $30.00 and $35.00.
the same reasonable prices.

Accessories to match at

See the new black Hambure’s Hat for evening

wear as featured by Esquire.

SHANE’S

MEN'S SHOP

THIRTY SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 

DISCOUNT OF 10% TO DALHOUSIE STUDENTS

 

 

5 ——S = SS = ae = SS SSS See See
eS i SS a SS oe SS ese

  
 

 

eh leer eae
a “ Ss i a Se hig SSaeeeee
= SS oh eee = =

SE <= 2
2S Bon iN Se

2 and 3.30 p. m. SATURDAY
Dal Band in Attendance

<< See eae eam: Sai

 

 

 
   
 
   
   
  
    
     
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
   

.
a
o

t

en
* ’

ay
A
as

}
i

a.

ae
za

a
a?
ni

oy

~

 
   
 

a
=

a
“year man
i. eee
incidentals. Maybe yes—there is a
; sissy, Day, by name, who is attempting to divert the rays of suspicion
with his brilliant red tie. It may be
he who offered that the Ist year

een
ri r
Te

ee

persions have been directed at
al of you as the suspected
riter of this column. It is only

that evidence be produced which
. exonerate the accused and alyou, by a process of elimination,

tea
to identify T. Y. M.

What are the chances for a Ist
? You wouldn’t expect a
to trouble himself about

class is 88% pro-warist. You could
watch cadaver Number 5. He may
be a columnist-robot.

_ Ah! The 2nd year student! Fre
quent visits to the Pathology Insti
tute points to the entire class. A
blonde with goggles noticed how
thrilled the groups were when Dr.
Sieniewiicz took them amound the
Tuberculosis Hospital and allowed
them to stare at two patients. This
same bespectacled gent snooped in
the alleys and let it be known that
members of his class are staying up
till the wee sma’ hours of the morn
ing for Origin Anatomy today.

Where art thou, 3rd year man?
We can’t suspect Carl Trask—he is

se too busy chasing frogs about the
eo

Pharmacology lot. His little son

circulating the rumor that Obstetrics
notes will be distributed free of the
middleman’s profit, as was intended
last year; and: are four pages of
notes all that we get for a quarter?

Dr. Reid may be gathering “info”
when he doesn’t show up for the
morning class and promptly verifying it by pumping his class with his
sardonic humor at 12 noon. You can
watch T. Y. M. as he looks at the
bellicose Dentals, who are trying to
fashion us as arrogant Meds when
we aim to appease their inferiority
by making allowances for their
weaknesses.

Even Dr. Dreyer has gone fishing
for the scoundrel, but is at a loss
whether to use a dry fly or a wet fly.
Suspicion has already struck at a
certain red-head in the class. Ignore
him, but keep your eye on his girlfriend—she has the dope on the entire Med school.

Now to the 4th year pacifists! It
is this group which presented Dr.
Schwartz with the “cup of buffooneryy” in recognition of his spontaneity and artistic display of temperament, and for relieving the tension at the Pathology conference.
We are aware that Hal Davis indulged in an _ indiscretion while
Charlie wanted to date his “Baby”
with Hal that morning. Is it masochism when a female Med pulls the
hair of a male Med and demands a
kiss of him? While he blushes and

proudly boasts, “That’s my pop”.|Says “Oh!”

T. Y. M. may be the person who is

No use delaying: let’s get at the

 

 

WHEN YOU GET AN
OMINOUS LOOKING
LETTER FROM THE

     

THE BEST

Ppl 
BURSAR’S OFFICE

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

 

 

gotta glow.
bottom of this.
is maintained in the Children’s Hos
 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

TOOTHSOME
TOPICS

 

The pen’s a mighty thing, they say,
To those who know its use,
But a pen in hands of the mean and
small
Is rot, disgust, abuse.

Why does our good friend of “Take
Your Medicine” notoriously persist in
dragging in the lowly Dental student into his most remarkable column? Week after week he continues
his merciless quill-driving bombardment. Perhaps our literary genius
had at one time in his childhood been
frightened by a dentist, or, to quote
from Shakespeare’s “Othello”, that
“oreen-eyed monster, Jealousy” has
surreptitiously crept into his unsuspecting soul. Who knows—the workings of the human mind are strange
indeed—especially that of a Medical
student.

 

And then there is a story they tell
of the group of Dental students who
took part in that famous Roman
sport of throwing the dice. The
lucky boy came out of the game
winning two gold crowns, three partial dentures, a lingual bar and
thirty-two cents.

 

THINGS ’D LIKE TO KNOW

Where does Jack Victor go when
he goes out?

Why does “Happy” Diamond alWays wear brown shoes on special
occasions ? And why so many special
occasions ?

What two Dentals went on a sea
voyage to Dartmouth on a date—
and found two other Dents doing
parlor duty with their femmes?

Why does “Connie” sleep in such
a large bed?

Who is the Ghost of the Dental
School, and why?

 

ONCE IN A LIFETIME

The kick a Junior gets on going
into the clinic for the first time—
wearing his immaculate gown—giving the first praphylaxis to his first
patient—and paying his first bribe
to his disobedient little type by slipping him a copper.

 

The other day a patient came into the clinic with a set of “Pullman
Teeth’—one upper and one lower.

 

And our inebriated friend once said,
“When you’ve gotta glow — you’ve

 

A secret rendezvous

pital; admission by ecard only. Almost every night the “Tullio Club”
formulates and nourishes grievances
and diabolical plans. These fiends—
Krebs, Leventhal, Harries, and Tullio
Carminati Perea—are reputed as respectable 5th year men. The other
members of the class content themselves with acquiring a technique
for the newest surgical advances:

1. Anatamoses of the liver and
brain so the bile can concentrate.
2. Retroversion of the eyeballs, to
facilitate introspection. 3. Laryngophanyngostomy, so you can swallow
your words, and 4. Hysterocerebrostomy, so you can have a brain child;
and many others that are making
their tongues sweat.

At the Medical Society meeting it
was noticed that'an apple a day may
keep the M. D. away, but a box-full
can bring 88 together. Those of you
who were there must have seen
through the thick clouds of smoke
that the fraternities didn’t run the
society. We congratulate Ned Maddison as the new president, succeeding Eldon Eagles.

Like the Ist year Med, who asked
for a small coca-cola, put down a
520 bill, and said, “That’s all I got.”
Employ a differential diagnosis and
pick your man.

a
LL

|

 

 

Expressions may come and expressions may go, but Economics I goes

on forever. We are rather glad that
some retorts do not long survive,
because they are so inane. On the
other hand, some are rather apt and
certainly help conversation on those
dark nights when there is no moon
to inspire. Our foreign correspondent has cabled us that a world-wide
expression is in extreme danger of
becoming as dead as the dodo bird
unless the League of Nations is successful in bringing to an end the
difference of opinion that exists between Signor Mussolini and the King
of Kings. If the League of Nations
is unable to stop Mr. Mussolini from
exterminating the natives of Abyssinia, there will be no Ethiopians left

for the woodpile.

* *

Should by any chance Signor Mussolini find that his services were no
longer required by the Italian people,
we know that he will not have much
difficulty in securing new employment. He should be able to get a
good fat movie contract with Hal
Roach. Every time that we have
witnessed this great Italian haranguing the multitudue he has caused
those witnessing the cinema to fall
into paroxysms of laughter Indeed,
unless you knew that you were viewing the newsreel, you might make an
error that would keep diplomats
busy for several months.

We have not heard the results of
the so-called war-peace plebiscite as
yet. True, we have read certain
figures, which the local press described as “unofficial,” whatever that
means. If the “unofficial” and official results should by any chance coincide, it would seem that Dalhousie
has adopted the suggestion of President Stanley and gone revolutionary.
A few years ago if a person even
dared to suggest that he would not
eross the sea to die for the sake of
a few power-crazed statesmen and
the Staff Headquarters (many miles
from any danger), aided and abetted
by the manufacturers of armaments
this poor soul would be labelled a
coward—a pariah. While the plebiscite results may indicate that many
would not bear arms in a foregin
conflict, other indices show that Dalhousians are willing to enter the
fight at home. In a cynical sort of
way, we are referring to the number
of people who are committing matrimony. Perhaps we are wrong. This
trend may be a sign of returning
prosperity —perahps the lovers have
just emerged from the corner around
which prosperity is alleged to be hiding. ‘There is still a further ex
 

 

   

Last week the Freshmen provided
for themselves and the Seniors a
very enjoyable entertainment. They
had evidently worked hard under
Pat McDonald and their efforts
were even better than anticipated.
It would be difficult to single out
any one performance which occupied
first place in merit, but we think
that Art Ward’s fan dance, if it did
not take the palm, was very well
done. We would like to warn him,
though, that if he should ever repeat his performance, not to make
so many advances to Ned Carnell.
The latter is quite unresponsive, his
tastes being on a higher plane.

 

We were glad to see Al Reid in
the residence for a few days last
week. Our noted predecessor in
this degenerate column was one of
last year’s editors.

 

Prof. Thomson, in his capacity as
dean of the residence, has this year
decided to live in the residence with

PINE HILL PEN PRICKS

 

planation. Many persons may have
been actuated by the words of the
Apostle Paul as found in I Corinthians vii 9—‘It is better to marry

than burn.’

* *«

The city of Oklahoma has a new
source of revenue — charging for
parking on the city streets. They
have installed machines at each
parking space which checks up on
the time that the car has remained
by the curb. The motorist places a
nickel in the slot and a clock mechanism raises a red indicator for 15
minutes; the traffic policeman on
making his rounds, passes out tickets
where no indicator is showing. We
wonder if this suggestion could not
be adopted on the Dalhousie campus.
We pass the idea along to Mr.
Harper with the hope that something
may be done to reduce the deficit. Of,
course, there are some features
about the Oklahoma system that
would not be satisfactory here . .
for instance, the idea of having a
policeman walking up and down the
campus during the early evening
hours. This would not be necessary
here, we suggest, as we believe that
all parkers might conveniently be put
on the honor system—to place the
necessary number of nickels in the
machine, pee)

We have been somewhat severely
reprimanded by one of the two persons who occasionally read this
column. He—for, alas, we have no
she readers (our appeal in the last
issue has gone to naught)—he says
that the title at the top of this
column is not correct. He has found
no item that he could classify as a
fact. We hasten to apologize to our
reader but assure him that we have
given at least one honest-to-goodness
fact. We confess that we disguised
it somewhat because the Editors had
warned us. You doubtless know that
Editors are men versed in the law.
They have warned us about our comment leading us—and them, together
with the lads who cajole stern business into buying advertising space—
into the nearest gaol. We are therefore cautious in our comment; we
have been reliably informed that the
food served in those places of detention is none the best and not having
lived in a fraternity house we do not
think we could stand the ordeal. But
our public—both of them—must be
served and thus to make this column
representative of its title we give
this fact—Kevin Meagher lived on
water last summer — Mr. Meagher,
Sr., purchased a cabin cruiser. Kevin
liked the sea so much that occasionally he swayed with the billows even
when on the land.

 

 

us. May we take this opportunity
of welcoming him. Perhaps (who
knows?) this may be a means of
forestalling future criticism.

 

Harry Nelson decided to go
home last week-end in order to
vote. Strangely enough he turned
up again on Sunday night. Did
neither side offer enough, Harry,
or was it the sorority dance that
brought you back?

 

We are sorry to have to report
that Blois LePage has decided to return home. We shall miss him, but
wish him the best of luck in his
future career.

 

The theologues are beginning to

drift in slowly, and soon the resi
dence will be filled. We shall be
hearing the annual crop of tall
stories engendered by the summer’s activities. Perhaps we may
be able to tell some next week for
your benefit.

 

 

Naugler’s

1 Orchestra

$3.00 Per Couple

 

THE MED DANCE

 

 

 

 

 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29th

 

Page Three

THE

OBSERVATORY

(By Observer)

 

Surprising as it may seem, Dalhousie has again made local paper
headlines. Well, not headlines exactly, but at least front page space
in an extra. What in the nature of
the extraordinary there is in the results of the war or peace poll we
don’t know, except maybe the inane
uselessness of the poll idea. The
plebiscite has been held, and results
received, but we find ourselves continually haunted by the interjection,
“What of it?” We have heard murmurings of a grandoise scheme to
pass the results on to other Canadian
colleges to show them how pacifist
Dalhousie is. Sure, we’re pacifist,
and proud of it, but a disclosure of
the fact now will only provide tea
table discussion for most. Maybe
there will come a time when it will
be fitting to declare our feelings;

_|then let us do so, and what is more

important, having taken the decision,
stick with it.

 

We are proud to share with the
citizens of Halifax this week in welcoming to our midst representatives
of the Educational Boards from the
Mother Country.

Dalhousie is indeed fortunate that
she has the opportunity of being included in the iterancy of distinguished lecturers, and we often wonder if
the students fully realize their advantages in this. It is men such as
these who, after all, can keep us in
touch with modern ideas in their own
fields, ideas which should be interesting to us not only for their own
sake, but also because me may make
them the basis of further constructive thought of our own.

To those of us who have had the
opportunity of meeting some of
these distinguished visitors, and especially of seeing the film demonstration directed by Mr. Hankin at
the Garrick, has come a real benefit
that we shall long remember. As
Wwe say good-bye to them, may we
express the hope that they will take
with them as favourable impressions
of us as we have of them.

 

There are some people who are believers in the old adage, “A bad beginning makes for a good ending”,
and we find ourselves compelled to
join those believers at this time.

Football talk is in the air, and has
been ever since the college term
opened, and so far about all-Dalhousie has got out of it is the air.
Far be it from Observer to be a
pessimist, however. This year more
than for some time past, Dalhousie
is beginning to realize that it is a
University, and as such should be
body and soul behind every encounter the University makes with another college, in whatever activity
that encounter may take place.
We’ve had larger crowds out; we’ve
had louder yelling; we’ve had cheer
leaders, male and female, yes, and
we’ve even had a band.

The Gazette has aroused the enthusiasm of all the students; you
members of the team have us all
rooting for you.

We want you members of the team
to feel that we’re all for you, and
feeling that, play to win. We believe
you have it in you, so go in there,
men, and win for Dalhousie.

Backsight and

(Continued from Page Two)
remain adamant in the face of past
and present solicitations, that the
Students’ Council might set aside a
small sum for this purpose. It would
not need to be large, and I am sure
that many students who in the past
have found themselves inkless in the
middle of an important thesis or essay would call down blessings on
their heads.

 

The Nova
Scotian

Hotel

 

 

   

 

 

 
 
  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Ye lh ae
, aie
ote '
. «.* _

Good Dawes Dalhousie 1UEE _S,
buzsis xv. a
the ‘dull misery of leing «>
rated. The brand of rugby playec
in the Maritimes has been likened to
a miners’ scrub game in the Old
Country—a fact cast in the mould
of hypothesis. According to Prof.
Fletcher, coach at Dalhousie and
former Rugby star with University
and Sussex College in England, there
were flashes of play in the Acadia
game that would have done well in
any professional game on the other
side.
, ae ee

Watch Hodgson! Newcomer from
University of Western Ontario.
Played wing forward on the intermediate team against Acadia and
will probably be in full-back position
against the Wanderers. Fifty yard
punts are child’s play to him. Take
note, Jim, he played on the junior
Varsity at Western; might be handy
when the basketball season arrives.

* * *

Speaking of Big Jim reminds us:
those secret parleys at mid-field during practice are the nucleus of a
new play which will be sprung Saturday against the Wanderers. It
promises to be good. Test your skill
and see if you can spot it. The
Gazette is prepared to pay for all
the polar pies any man can eat in
ten minutes, to the person who sends
us a description of the play to the
Gazette office on or before the day
of the interfaculty track meet—on
which day the prize is to be awarded.

oe * *

It is difficult to understand the

- psychology of the Dalhousie Rug
gers. All realize that a most vital
factor in their defeat at the hands
of the Acadias was their lack of condition. Yet Friday, eight days prior
to the Wanderers game, the teams
had one of the worst work-outs of
the year, due to poor attendance.
Although the team should be com‘mended for their display of “fight”
during the battle, without conditioning all the “fight” they could mus- ter would merely provide more work
Pioas oe ese a ‘It is obvious that

Photographers to
DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY
Special Rates to
STUDENTS
24 Hour Finishing

Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Garden Rd.

Phone B-6992

 
  

 

 

 

On Saturday, Oct. 5, the Dalhousie | dent.

students and supporters saw a rejuvenated Dal football team with a
fighting spirit that has been conspicuous by its absence for many
years. They went down to defeat
not because the flesh was weak or
the spirit unwilling, but because the
breaks were against them. Last
year injuries kept them down, now
it seems that a nemesis of another
nature has risen to take its place.
The team was composed of:

Jack Worrell—Full back. Weight
155 lbs. Second year Medical stu
a man in good conditions is less apt
to get hurt than a guzzling loungelizard.

* * *

Interfaculty Rugby will open season this Saturday, The managers of
the various faculty teams, at a joint
meeting under the guidance of Henry
Ross, have decided on minor changes
for the coming season. Games will
be shortened to twenty minute
halves with a rest interval of ten
minutes, and played under Rugby
League rules. Teams will each consist of thirteen men using a five man
serum. This should provide a faster
game and eliminate all the massive
sluggish movement of the seven
man scrum. To further alleviate the
burden of the unconditioned players,
the managers went completely radical and agreed to permit two substitutions for each team.

* * *

At the meeting it was suggested
that an award be presented to the
members of the victorious team. In
search for a_ suitable award, Felt
“T)’s” were mentioned. This suggestion was scoffed at. Apparently
felt “D’s” bore no significance at our
University. Deliberation tends to
cause us to agree with the scoffers.
Every freshman can or rather is coerced to bemantle himself with the
Black and Gold letter. The letter
therefore signifies a period of penance to him, and at the earliest opportunity he will rid himself of this
badge of pledgeship and thereafter
look upon the letter with scorn.

That very same award (7?) is
|| graciously presented to a group of

j}}men who receive no other compen{sation for a season of sweat and

toil, serving at tackling dummies for
the Senior Rugby team, and sacrificing their physical propriety for our
Alma Mater, namely, the intermediates.

Let us abolish this promiscuous
use of felt “D’s”, stay their sale,
and bring back to Dalhousie the days
when letters signified service.

* Kk *

Doug Crease will be out of the
game for the season as a result of
his nose injury. The intermediates
regret seeing their captain, “Monk”
Smith, step into the ranks of the
“Yellow Shirts” to replace Doug.

* * *

Mike Hinchey, in spite of the torn
ligaments in his shoulder, was back
in practice three days after the
Acadia game. It required courage,
Mike. You’ve got what it takes.

7 * %*

A new man showing up well in
practice is from across the border.
Sid Pauker has taken to the game
with great facility. It must be that
rule book you borrowed.

eo 6 *

George Corston will be back with
the intermediates shortly. His leg
injury was not very serious.

 

 

CO.EDS:

Shoes Tinted to Match Your Gowns...

on Gee

We Call and Deliver
CAPITOL SHOE REPAIR

|| 44 - 46 SACKVILLE STREET

 

Just Phone B-8566

lbs.

Former King’s College star;
good tackler and kicker; second year
on team.

Hal Connor — Wing three-quarter.

Weight 154 Ibs. Second year Law
student. Best punter on the team.
Hal returns to the Tigers after a
year on the sidelines. This is his
fourth year on the team.

Henry Ross—Wing three-quarter.
Weight 146 Ibs. Arts student; fastest man on the team; good tackler;
second year on team.

Mike Hinchey—Centre three-quarter. Weight 149 lbs. Third year
Law student; hard tackler; starred
with the Law inter-faculty team last
year; first year in senior company.

George Thompson — Centre threequarter. Weight 165 lbs. Third year
Law student; good broken field runner and a hard tackler. This is
George’s fifth year with the Tigers.

Jack Buckley — Five - eighths.
Weight 160 lbs. Second year Law
student; formerly starred with
Acadia, Loyola College, and Wanderers’ squads; very aggressive and
a hard tackler. This is his second
year with the team.

Doug Crease — Standoff half.
Weight 156 lbs. Second year Law
student; tricky ball handler and a
good kicker. Doug started the scoring play against Acadia on Saturday. This is his third year with the
team,

Allie MacSween — Captain and
serum half. Weight 160 lbs. Allie
is without equal locally as a scrum
half. This is his second year with
the Tigers.

Maurice Lawrence — Forward.
Weight 165 Ibs. Arts student; fastest forward on the team; good hooker and dribbler. This is his second
year.

Ike Mercer—Forward. Weight 155.
Second year Law student; former
Law inter-faculty star; good hooker
and dribbler; first year on team.

Elmer Ball—Forward. Weight 168
lbs. Engineering student; best dribbler on team; fast at following up
and a hard tackler; second year on
team.

Pat Gunter—Forward. Weight 186
Second year Law student; former Acadia captain and star; played
interfaculty at Oxford; first year
with the Tigers.

Bill Cook—Forward. Weight 160
Ibs. Former Mt. Allison star; played
a stellar game Saturday; first year
on team.

Percy Sheppard—Forward. Weight |
196 lbs. Heaviest man on team; a
valuable man in the scrum and a
good kicker.

Pooh DeWolfe—Forward. Weight
170 lbs. Former Acadia star; most
aggressive man on the team; scored
the Tigers’ lone try in Saturday’s
game; first year on the team.

“Big Jim’—Slave-driving coach of
the Tigers. Much of the credit for
the improvement of the team should

be given him.

Prof. Fletcher — Who is new to
Dalhousie this year. He deserves
much credit for the fine showing of
the team.

Bob McLellan — Manager. Third
year Law student. Bob, after a
year’s hard work under “Lazy John”,
can afford to sit on the sidelines and
give orders, and he seems to be doing it very well.

 

    

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of

CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

LL

Prof. Martin
Supports Prexy

(Continued from Page One)

scribed the various types of students
who come to the University, including those who come for a good time,
those who come to stick to their
baaks and to make their eredits for
the degree, and those who come to
college to get an all-round education. The last section was the one
which the freshmen, he said, should
strive to emulate.

The frosh also held a meeting
after the speech, during which their
sophomore brethren advised a strict
adherence to the none too stringent
rules which they must obey. Dire
consequences were threatened, while
Manager John Mullane asked for a
better turnout for football. The
frosh are expected to be in the thick
of the interfaculty fight, as their
talent looks well on paper.

Interfaculty

Events Soon
(Continued from Page One)

Last year, two or three fans made
up the cheering sectoin.

Various other interfaculty sports,
including basketball, hockey, and
softball, will get underway within
the next few months, and with good
teams dishing up good competition,
the attendance at these games is expected to take a sudden and much
appreciated rise.

Preparations are also underway
for the interfaculty field day, and

‘candidates are requested to get right

|

into training.

An idea presented by W. E. Stirling, the physical instructor, that the
spirit of competition be kept alive
by indoor weekly meets, in the Gym,
is one which is worthy of consideration. If you like the idea, speak to
him and he will be more encouraged
to carry on with the proposal

The Gazette appeals to the students to make “interfaculty” rank
with “senior” and “city league”’.

Arts and Science, Freshmen, Dentistry, Med, Law and Pine Hill are
expected to bring teams into action,
and hopes are held that the winners
will meet a team composed of the
younger and more virile members of
the professorial staff. Such a game,
in any department of sport, would
be one that would excite much favorable comment and would add much
to the spirit of co-operation ’tween
master and student.

Grads To Be
Out in Full Force

(Continued from Page One)
ing the multitude he has caused
of the college are coming out. Within a few weeks, the first combination
of the alumni news with the Dalhousie Gazette proper will be presented. Almost guaranteeing a rise
in our circulation of several thousands, the grads are doing their
share,

Plans for a reunion of the old
students next summer were discussed last evening at a joint meeting of the alumni and alumnae, at
which Samuel R. Balcom, alumni
president, took charge. Lady grad
canvassers have been busy for the
past few days on the rooting section
scheme and it looks like the biggest
crowd in years will be cheering for
the Dal Tigers when the try their

fate with the Wanderers’ Redlegs. |

 

Ballot Has
Aftermath

(Continued from Page One)
celebrity said, “I have no objection
to sending my wife’s relations to
war”,

(2) Although The Gazette has
drummed up a considerable amount
of student interest, it has not yet
yeached its objective. Only 464 students out of more than 850 deigned
to make their mark on the ballot

|

 

 

 

Thursday, October 17, 1935

 

TENNIS TEAM TAKES
MARITIME NET TITLE

WANTED

Ten copies of the first issue of

the Gazette. Please bring te the
Gazette office.

Dal Tigers Hope
For Win Saturday

(Continued from Page One)
able response which met their efforts at the last game. Several old
yell leaders will be seen in action
with the Alumni and should serve as
an incentive to the reticent students.

The team itself has gone through
a few major changes in the backfield, but the forward line will remain intact. Hazen Mitchell, lightning-fast performer, who made good
on the Cubs, will receive his first
taste of senior fire when he patrols
the three-quarter line against the
Reds on Saturday. Monk Smith, another intermediate and former King’s
star, is to replace Doug Crease at
standoff half, and from his performances to date it will not be a weak
spot in the Tiger line-up.

Hal Connor, the man with the terrific boot, has been removed to the
fullback position and it’s a cince that
Dal won’t lose ground in kicking exchanges. The whole college should
be on deck on Saturday to witness
the most colorful football event in
many a year.

British Heads
At Dalhousie

(Continued from Page One)

Brighton, said education was of no
use unless it manifested itself in the
cultivation of our tastes and desires.
“The higher our education is, the
higher must be our aims,” concluded
Mr. Toyne.

The greatest available resource
we have is youth, and the students
were urged to make the most effective use of it by E. Salter Davies,
C.B.E., director of education for
Kent. Mr. Davies was impressed
with the fact in this country we are
willing to spend money on education.

 

form, despite the fact that the President of the Students’ Council held
that the ballot was “silly“.

It seems therefore timely that
Dalhousie students should take another cinch in the mental belts of
their prejudices, and, swallowing a
little pride, should come out strong
for the University in which they are
learning (?) something, or at least,
in the University in which they paid,
on an average, nearly $200 in good
Canadian currency.

Interfaculty competitions are cluse
at hand. The efficacy of the
Gazette’s campaign will receive its
next test when Dal students make
up their minds whether they will
support the sports or let them
sleep on.

Once again, it’s up to you.

CASINO

Starting Sat., Oct. 19

Bette Davis
with

George Brent

in

Special Agent

 

    
 

$1.50 PER COUPLE

 

 

 

 

| FRESHIE-SOPH DANCE
NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL -- Fri, Oct. 18

=
ener:

 

Playing Mount Allison on their
own courts at Sackville, N. B., on
Monday, Dalhousie emerged from
the fray with the Maritime intercollegiate tennis title adequately
clinched. This achievement was
preceded by the team’s win of the
N. S. championship from Acadia
on October 5th.

The day was windy and bad for
tennis, but better ball control spelt
victory for the Tigers squad at
Sackville. The count was 12 matches
to 3 in favor of Dal.

Representing Dalhousie were Isabel Fraser, I. Pentz, K. Sircom, M.
Garten, M. Musgrave, D. Saunderson, J. Godwin and E. Stewart. The
Mount Allison team included C.
Smith, M. MacDonald, E. Logan, S.
Kirkpatrick, D. Robinson, M. McNairn, E. Fleming and A. Thompson.

In winning the intercollegiate
crown, the Dal tennis team has set
a high standard for those engaged
in Dal sports to follow, and all congratulaetions are due the team.

Fear Cliques
May Develope

(Continued from Page One)

not confined to the freshettes but
makes itself felt among the various
grades of students in the Hall.

Indications are that unless there
is more fiction than truth in the reports, a clique mania will be rapidly
developed, which the Gazette deplores.

Naturally, others have risen to the
defence of those whose hearts have
gone out to the incoming frosh and
who have extended the welcoming
palm in the proper manner

DANCE MUSIC
Laurie Hart

And His Orchestra.

Call B-6489 Halifax

Birks-.

This year again Birks
will service all Balfour
contracts for Fraternity jewellery, stationery, favors and novelties. A wider range
and better facilities
than before.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

 

Friday, Saturday, Monday

ROBERT DONAT
MADELINE CARROLL

——
John Buchan’s

Greatest Thriller

THE “39 STEPS”

Friday and Monday Shows
at 2.05, 3.30, 7.00 and 9.00.

Saturday Continuous.

  

  

 

‘
»


a
»
a

g

a’

——— a

 
