 
  

* a
‘

 

eazy ap ne

hao

——— — i aia [*
aye 7
a = 5 oe he Py tts 7
i: la’ per eg z
cs! —
a

   

- —
ist

7 ee “
oo 4
Le,

 

K PARLIAMENT PROVES A GREAT SUCCESS

SO TTT TTT TTOIR TTR TT i

=

 

   

ef a ne

2 tl Pe see

 

ITUDLQVNIQVQU0U0ODUUEOOVESEO0OO EAU

 

 

No. 19

 

 

Year Book Plebiscite Passed

 

Ceremony And
Pomp Feature
Of First Session

With an aura of solemnity brooding over all, stealing into the hearts
and minds of the participants, and
lending an air of authenticity to the
whole proceedings, the opening of
the Dalhousie Mock Parliament took
place last Friday under the careful
tutelage of Dean V. C. McDonald,
bedecked in a crimson gown, and
Professor G. Curtis.

The Governor-General, Dougald
Macgillivray, gave dignity and poise
to an office that in reality is today
profaned by common clay. The
Speech from the Throne was read
with graciousness and a becoming
gravity. No act of less-majesty upreared its ugly head and the Dean
inflated as his fears took win.

The reply to the Speech was moved
by Jock MeDonald, whose lyrical
Cape Breton accent made music of
the words; while the  seconder,

~ Smiley, speaking in French, was
- equally incoherent.
John’ Fisher, in his reply, was a

 

 
    

ss

Tory. Yet though he typified St.
James Street, there was that in the
raffish tilt of his silk hat, in the
rougish gleam in his eye, that
smacked of Broadwway and Fortysecond Street, politician certainly,
but bon vivant also.

Blasting the Prime Minister and
all before him with a volley of vituperation, thundering denunciation,
hurling invective in all directions,
puffing and blowing with pompous
bombasticity, and bellowing abuse
with obvious enjoyment our John was
Bennett to the life. Exhausting the
expletives of the English language
John must needs have recourse to the
French.

(Continued on Page Three)

  

=

 
     
 

 

In Sympathy

The Gazette extends sincerté sympathy to Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Chase,

 

of Kentville, on the sad loss of their

Ee only child, Arthur, a student of
King’s College. Seized with sudden
| illness while on a debating trip, he
passed away in Amherst on Saturday.

While at college Arthur Chase
was very prominent in the activities
of the literary and debating societies,
the Mock Parliament, and was an
associate editor of the King’s College “Record”, He was a brilliant
student, and had gained a number of
scholarships and prizés during his
three years at the University. His
genial disposition and lovable character won him a very high place in
the regard of his fellow-students,
and this was remarkably evident in
the many tributes which have been
paid on every side.

The remains were kept in the
King’s College Chapel during Sunday night and a vigil kept by members of the student body. A large
number of Dalhousie and King’s
students followed the casket to the
station on Monday afternoon, and
a special car carried students to
Kentville for the funeral on Tuesday, at which six fellow student
acted as pallbearers.

: Arthur Chase has passed to his
: rest, but a wonderful memory of
him will live in the hearts of all
who knew him, a memory of a dear

=

iS +a ee

~

   

a statin talle and

 

Night Club Scene
Will BeHighlight

Morrison Directing Novel
Glee Club Show

On Wednesday next, March 11th,
the Black and Gold Supper Club”
will open its doors to all attending
the Munro Day festivities to present
its “Reoue of 1936.” Realism is the
keynote of the production and only a
few vague details were disclosed by
its genial and capable creator and
director, Johnny Morrison.

As one of its many attractions,
this musical includes a dancing
chorus, professionally trained by
Margo McManus. A new type of
‘comedy, never before attempted’ at
Dalhousie, will be presented by a
novel comedy team, Jack Arnell and
Murray Gould. Musical selections
will be handled in an unusually different manner by two different
groups of singers. Ever-popular
performers such as Fran Gardner,
Bill Stevens, Pat MacDonald, Lou
Morrison, Lugo Fraser, and Phil
Stéin are included in the cast. Herman Halperin, the student dramatic
director, will assume an entirely new
type of role for him, that of Master
of Ceremonies.

An utterly different and ultramodern stage setting is in preparation and the music at the Supper
Club will be provided by “Black and
Gold Rhythm-makers” under the
direction of Jerry Naugler who will
preside at the keyboard.

These are just a few of the many
features which promise to make this/
show another “best yet”. The largest crowd of the year is expected to
attend so be sure to bet around early
‘and get a seat. There will be dancimg after the show, and if everything
lives up to expectations nothing can
stop this part of the programme
from being a fitting ending to another real Dalhousie Day.

St. John to Debate
Here Monday

The first of the annual debates
arranged with U. N. B. Law School
this year will take place on Monday
evening next in the Munro Room at
eight o’clock.

The U. N. B. Law School will be
represented by a very strong team
composed of Lloyd Keating, the
well-known tennis player, and James
McBrien, a member of the R. C. M.
P, and who is a son of Sir James
McBrien, Chief Commissioner of the
R. C. M. P. He is studying law under the arrangement of the Federal
Government whereby a member of
the R. C. M. P. from each Province
studies law each year..

Dalhousie Law School will be represented by John Fisher and Ernest
Richardson. Dean Vincent C. Mac
 

UU EEEEEREEIEeeeeeene nee ns

 

Donald will preside, and the judges
will be drawn from the Supreme
Court Bench and Judge Murray of |
the County Court.
This promises to be the outstanding debate of the year. The U. N. B.
(Continued on Page Four)

ee CE

le ee ee
Seep peepee sisaienesdeniastaesmin-esnsi
- = ; or wae ete
' * * . : ‘ “re Neen igeey SE = a a - fesais iis Mehta. any ns “ eee
*¥ 3 ed . - aw =
m6 s ee ly Nan et > et np ed “
ea y e ee ad “
“ ai, = : ans
e 7 ‘ ~
- a J . e ¢
= a . a
~ x —-: af =: ‘ we ~ a
m S : ; _ ‘ ‘ae = +S. =
e - : “ = aa . oe ee ——— -~ é yo
- - - -” - ad
— — on nn ae
= aoe es a : 255 2128
= i an - a a
‘ee = a Ss ee - ae
é ereeas 252 = as
——S - 3 ——
. > it « .)
- = ss ES
= — se
‘ —— “2 32352
«se
225 ~S
> =
~

—_— A

MUNRO DAY ACTIVITIES
TO BE HELD WEDNESDAY

nnn nnnn ene n

   

A !
\ WW
‘ Xs N\\

TW WS WNT
\
\ \

y

\

  
    

\\"

it =
ys vee veal ig

 

—
_ a Se

iy

Py

 

THE GREAT BENEFACTOR

OF DALHOUSIE
GEORGE MUNRO

Fellow Dalhousians, on March 11th, we will gather to honor the
memory of George Munro, “The Great Benefactor of Dalhousie’.
Mr. Munro was a native of Pictou County, N. S.,. and taught for a
time in the Free Church Academy before leaving for New York, where
he made a fortune as a publisher.

Beginning in 1879, Mr. Munro endowed the chair of Physics and
later in the same year the chair of History and Political Economy.
A chair in English literature followed. It was the first professorship
of English, and English alone, to be founded in a Canadian college.
In 1883, Mr. Munro founded the chair of Constitutional and International Law in the newly organized Law School, which came into being
the same year. Finally he founded the chair of Philosophy.

Besides endowing these five years he offered bursaries. for yearly
competition.

Altogether Mr. Munro expended $350,000 on Dalhousie. It was
the first large sum given to any college in Canada, and is especially
noteworthy because it went to the improvement of the staff and
students, and not to the erection of buildings. Mr. Munro’s wise
and timely munificence set Dalhousie firmly on her feet. He will be
held in everlasting remembrance as the first and greatest of our benefactors. His gifts, at that time unequalled in Canada, challenged
admiration and provoked men of wealth to do more for our universities and colleges.

The Glee Club Show of Past
Week Proved Very Successful

 

 

 

 

Last week’s Glee Club Show offered a contrast that couldn’t pass unnoticed. “Suppressed Desires” may
or may not be a good play, but it
certainly falls flat unless a little animation is put into it. With all due
respect to the Newman Club the
show was a failure. No audience
could get the point of a play like
that when the dialogue was mandible. So, they resorted to the usual
routine of throwing papers and carrying on a whispered conversation, except when they were disturbed by
the well-delivered lines of the lone
male who tried as hard to make the
play a success. An orchid to Ted

Byrne; and incidentally—where did
he learn to make love like that?

It was a pleasant surprise when
the Pine Hill players swung into action and gave the audience some real
amusement and entertainment. As
usual, they presented something original and delightfully different. Their
orchestra was good, and so were the
actors, their voices, the jokes, and
everything that went to make the
show a howling success. What could
befunnier than a Pine-Hiller, dressed
in woman’s garb, imitating the wiles
of the weaker sex?

Congratulations go to the cast, the
orchestra, the conductor, the concert
(Continued on Page Three)

 

i CC CC te

 

 

Programme For
Day Announced

 

Thompson Promises Better
Time Than Ever Before

The following is the Munro Day
Programme as given to the Gazette:

3.00 p.m.—Softball: Studley vs.
Forrest Building. (Munro Day

3.25 p.m.—Gymnastie Display.

Shield). |
|

3.40 p.m.—Basketball: Studley vs. |

|

Forrest Building. (Munro. Day
Shield).

4.00 p.m.—Badminton 75 Years
Ago: Women’s singles.

4.05 pm— Badminton: Men’s

singles.

4.15 p.m.—Boxing: One bout.

4.27 p.m.—Basketball: Co-Eds vs.
Eds.

4.43 p.m.—Indoor Hockey: Studley
vs. Forrest Building. (Munro Day
Shield).

5.00 p.m.—Tea Dance.

7.00 p.m.—Intermission.

7.30 p.m.—Call to Order:
man.

7.31 p.m.—President of the University.

7.37 p.m.—Guest Speaker.

7.47 p.m:—President of the D. A.
A. ¢.

7.49 p.m.—lIntroduction of the New
Council of the Students.

7.52 p.m. — Announcement and
Presentation of the Maleolm: Honour
Award,

7.55 p.m.—Presentation. of Munro
Day Shield.

7.56 p.m.—President of the Council of Students,

8.00

8.15

8.30

9.30
12.30

Chair

p.m.—Piano Interlude.
p.m.—Living Statuary.

p-m,— Dancing,
p.m,.—Finale.

Munro Day Notes

 

A Council ef the Students
ticket admits the owner and a
friend. Alumnae, Alumni and
their guests will be admitted on
the payment of twenty-five cents
A complete list of the Students.
Alumnae and Alumni will be at
the ticket boeth.

 

Roy Atwood will give two dollars
credit to some lucky person who
makes a purchase in the Dalhousie

Small Ballot
Indicates Lack

Of interest

The following are the results of
last Tuesday’s vote. Those printed
in bold face type were elected):

D. A. A. C.

President:

Ed. Barnhill.

Alan MacSween.
Vice-President:

John Carroll.

Maurice Dean.
Secretary:

Edward Cragg.

George Corston.

Archibald McKenzie.

 

 

GLEE CLUB

President:
Sandy MacPherson.
Wallace Roy.
Vice-President:
Fran Queenie.
Mabel MacKenzie.
Billy Pearson.
Business Manager:
Jack Arnell.
Alex Hart.
Murray Gould.

 

YEAR BOOK PLEBISCITE
Yes 325
No

 

ARTS AND SCIENCE
Class ’37:
Helen Holman.
M. Gene Morrison.
Gordon Thompson.
Henry Ross.
Class.’38:
Jean Fitzgerald.
Mabel MacKenzie.
Fred Barton.
Joe Likely.
(Continued on Page Three)

Council Holds
Important Meeting

Constitutional preblems, the Year

 

p.m.—Glee Club Presentation, |B°°X, and many other important

questions occupied the time of the
Council at their last meeting on
Sunday, March Ist.

The committee on the King’s-Dal
Council agreement brought in a
lengthy report regarding the request
of the Kingsmen to have their fee to
the Dal Council cut considerably.
After a lengthy discussion it was
suggested that the fees remain somewhat the same.

For the past few years the King’s
Council agreed to pay into the Dal
Council coffers some $300.00 for the
privilege of having their members
partake in the gym activities, ete.
Also, according to the agreement
made in 1933, King’s students were
to pay an extra $1.00 each for the
privilege of attending all functions

partaking.

Store on Munro Day. to which the holders of D. A. A. C.
are admitted free..

The King’smen felt that this extra
$1.00 was exorbitant. The Council
felt that whereas the students of
King’s were getting all the benefits
for which the Dal students were
paying a much higher price it would
only be fair that the fee be continued. The committee promised a
much fuller report at next meeting.

The business manager of the Year
Book and Mr, Charles Bentley, in
the absence of the editor, gave a
more or less extensive Year Book
report. Mr. Reardon stated that
with student support Pharos should

(Continued on Page Three)

 

GYM TEAM TO GIVE
PERFORMANCE

Mr. Stirling’s gymn team, composed of about a dozen members,
will put on a 15 minute show on
Munro Day. This feature of the
program has always been one of the
best in past years and there is every
expectation that it will be so again.
The program will include exhibitoins
on the high bar, the parallel bars,
and pyramids, with Mr. Stirling himself, who is an expert at this sport,

i. .
.
?

 
  
    

 

   
 
    
   
   
  
    

‘MERLE PURTILL

Business Manager
J. R. H. SUTHERLAND
B, 5487

~ let it slip by, mak

Executive of the Student Peace Movement.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Friday, March 6, 1936

 

Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. S.

EDITORIAL STAFF

 

| N. GREEN. pen IRVING PINK
-” B. 4148> B. 2442
1: f ae ; Assistants
LEN KITZ EDITH BLAIR BILL SUTHERLAND
Society . Editor Literary Editor Sports Editor

ELISABETH BALLEM

Staff Artist
Cc. F. BENTLEY

L. 3341
Assistant

B. 2148

B. 5737

eee

MUNRO DAY

NEX? Wednesday the student body of Dalhousie Univer gity will celebrate Munro Day in honour of ee
Munro, Dalhousie’s great benefactor. The devotion of a
day of honour is a fitting tribute to a man who has done so
much for our school, both morally and financially. There
is no doubt that Mr. Munro’s financial contribution comlag
as it did when the school was in a rather uncertain condition financially proved to be that necessary which would
make Dalhousie University a certainty for the future. Not
only did he endow several chairs but he contributed liberally to aid the various departments of the University.

The Gazette takes this opportunity to join with the
student body to extend our thanks and appreciation to the
memory of George Munro.

 

ACTIVITY OR OTHERWISE

THE student body of Dalhousie is small. Yet they always
seem to begin activity when it is too late. A number of
instances have been seen in the past couple of years. At
the very end of the 1935 term Student Forums were held
about three times. These forums were In a sense very
successful and student pitch rose to a height which was
almost unsurpassable. Many drastic measures were passed
almost unanimously, and among them was one which at the
time was felt to be very important. The students felt that
they wanted to see real election activity before the Student
Council vote. It was decided that the nominees should prepare platforms and present them to the students at a public
forum on the eve of election. In this way the candidates
would make themselves known to the voters and would
openly be able to tell the students just what they were
going to do. This was an excellent idea and received the
acclaim of all.

This year, some two weeks before the elections, there
appeared in the Gazete in a prominent position notices regarding the date of the vote. It seemed to pass unnoticed.
The students forgot their solemn vows of some months
before until four days before the elections, when a student
forum was held. This forum decided to petition the Coun
cil to postpone the elections for a week. Unfortunately this

could not be done, because it was unconstitutional. In the
eyes of the student body the Council was to blame. The
fault, however, lies in the student body itself.
~ -& Jesson should be learned from all this. Next year
let us be sure that between the nominations and elections
we have a forum at which all the nominees make their appearance. It is only then that the student body as a whole
will be able to make up their minds as to who will make
the best members of the Council. It is then that everybody will be satisfied and the work of the Council will be
able to proceed unhampered by abusive epithets of the

student body.

 

~*~

ee PEACE! SO WHAT?

STUDENTS throughout the length and breadth of the

Dominion will unite on March 20th to express their
desire for peace—according to plans issued by the National
The method is
to dedicate one hour to meetings dedicated to peace on

every campus on that day.

The earlier part of this terms the Gazette attempted to

_ gtir up student interest in the cause of peace, matters went

so far as the carrying out of a plebiscite, and for a time
some real enthusiasm was stirred up. Unfortunately the
matter suffered a sudden death, the reason is difficult to
find. ‘To an observer it would appear that the student body
at this university is not interested in any sort of attempt

FF. conducive to the propogation of peace.

But we did one thing, we started a spark which has

_ kindled interest throughout every university in Canada.

The culmination, or at least one of the results.is this National Peace Hour which is being conducted through McGill
University.

The idea is one which we should foster, not only in
fairness to ourselves, but as an indicia that we joined with
the students of Canada in the interests of peace.

It seems that the students in the Maritimes are not
interested in peace, a striking example of this is the tremendous failure which the Model League at Mount Allison
proved to be this year. The only interest in the matter
was demonstrated by those who were “taking the trip”,
we do not mean to cast any aspersions on anyone, but we
cannot help feeling that the interest was in the trip rather
than an infinite joy in the opportunity to discuss matters of
world interest with representatives from other universities.

aa This seems to be further shown by the fact that at no

other time does there appear to be any interest in the
Model League except the week before when the respective
representatives are chosen, and the week after when these
same representatives get together and discuss the relative

* enjoyment of the trip to each other.

An opportunity is now at hand to make up for this

state of lethargy into which the students of Dalhousie have

fallen, at least so far as this question is concerned. Don’t

e something of ‘it.

j

ei

   

BEN DuBILIER

DOUGLAS CREASE

Something to
Think About

Discoveries have been made in
South America of ancient human
bones painted red. The idea was to
preserve the bones so that the owners might have the means to enter
the beyond and ensure them a
healthy existence there. From earliest times red has been associated
with health, which has a universal
appeal.

Because of the human failing to
confuse cause and effect, fat people,
who usually have a ruddy glow, have
been regarded with favor, while
those who have "a lean and hungry
look” have been viewed with suspicion.

 

It seems reasonable, then, to hold
dieting largely responsible for the
falling marriage rate. No desire
was it of man that his fairer counterpart should take unto itself the
sharp and painful angularities it assumed. Women have even been the
masters of their shapes, the captains
of their contours. They should realize that in gaining one desire they
have lost the more highly prized
one of matrimony.

SS * *

Occasionally one grows a little|

 

A JINGLE

“Perhaps,” said my dearest Dora,
“it is the primeval nature stirring
within us.”

“Perhaps,” (my reply indicated
how frivolous her suggestion seemed), “perhaps it is the innate lun

“Now, dearest little fussbudget,
don’t become angry. You just know
I’m right. And, besides, I heard
Mrs. Lovelace say so the other day,
and you agreed with her.”

The battle was over. Why should
one attempt resistance against a
woman with a memory? In fact, she
might even be right. How had this
silly squabble arisen in the first
place? Oh, yes, Dora had been
singing, humming, whistling, acting,
and dancing in a manner which sufficiently indicated that “it goes round
and round.” My remonstrance that
she was making an ass of herself
and incidentally a nuisance, jarred
her not in the least, for she was
completely overcome by the obsession. From our earlier days I could
remember the time of the banana
scarcity, the occasion on which it
Was necessary every minute of the
day to be shown the way to go
go, the age when it was proclaimed
that there should be no more rain,
and the gay days of the “Hey
Nonny”, and “Hot Cha Cha”. We
had survived these orgies of insan
weary of the current news; a little | ity; we should probably survive the
tired with bombs and sanctions, as-| present one.

assinations and coup d’états, the
machinations of the
politicians, and “what the Swede in
tend and what the French.”
One tends to gaze with a jaun
international|a fervent love-song for years;

 

A waltz may last for generations;

for outstanding popularity and immediate success there must be something nonsensical or inane. It is the

ST
ec  :

|
|

but |

diced eye upon the cute and cunning |jingle, the swing, the unusualness,
antics of the Dionne quints (dread | the carelessness of these songs that
warnings to that eternal youth whose |ensures their catching for a time.
mind turns lightly to thoughts of; Their greatest asset, and of course

ieee ee ee SS Ee Se =O ee
= a

love); and the latest deed of violence |in the long run their greatest liain the Cape Breton wilds raises no bility is their lack of stability and

response in the reader’s breast.

of lasting appeal. Hit songs seldom,

There is surfeit in all things, and if ever, possess a lastingness within
what was once sweet in the mouth| t#emselves, for their very essence is

may turn bitter.

news editors became aware of this|

and initiated a campaign to revive
the jaded appetites of their subscribers.

oe ce

The chairman of Vickers, Sir
Henry Lawrence, recently complained that the prejudice against, armament manufacturers is the expression of “a mistaken ideal respecting
the sanctity of human life’. This
ideal is a comparatively new one
which did not exist in former times
and does not exist today in many
civilizations, being confined to the
Western nations. |

Penal sanctions were imposed part- |
ly on the basis that all men belonged
to the King and he was not to be
arbitrarily deprived of any person’s|
military services. His life was pre-|
served so that it might be sacrificed,
and thus it became sacred. Its sanc- |
tity was rationalized on the ground |

 

that it was morally wrong to take’
a life.

Yet the natural indifference still
persists, as is shown by the unconcern evinced at the increasing toll!
exacted by the automobile. The only
horror a person feels is at the
thought that it might have been
himself, and this is back of what
little legislation there has beck|
against reckless driving.

The prejudice remains, and is now
directed, ironically enough, against’
the armament makers—they who!
are also means to the same end that!
originally gave rise to the preju- |
dice, the protection of the realm.

 

* * x

It has been said that truth is in-|
destructible. That, therefore, it needs |
no defenders and no zealous war-|
riors. It will conquer of its own inherent excellence. Yet few people
seem to understand this. It is al-'
ways the reformer who screams the |
loudest. Either he doesn’t know
know this simple fact or he is not
wholly convinced of the truth of
what he says.

Mohammed sought to enforce his
religion on the world by the sword.
Christianity, too, has had its moments of doubt, although in origin
its methods were quite otherwise.
There was the Spanish Inquisition,
the persecution of the Huguonots,
and various attempts by the English
to put down opposition. The same
flaw lies in the arguments of those
nations who excuse their conquests
on the ground that they are spreading civlization. |

Se ts Y Bist : ius re

Ti Sete that | their transitoriness.

Mark Twain has written one of
the most catching of jingles. Most
readers will recall how it begins:

“Punch, brothers, punch with care,

Punch in the presence of the pas
senger.”

While not quite senseless, it is
undoubtedly useless. It has, however, all the qualities required of a
successful jingle, whether of the sort
that is accompanied by notes om the
piano or not. Let some person whisper that refrain in your ear at the

breakfast table and the day is: ruin
ed. It attaches itself to anything
any everything that comes its way.

Of course, the basis of each jingle
is the accentuated beat, but there
must be something more than that
to make it a hit. That something
accounts for the transitory nature
of the jingle: it must have a very
wide appeal and must be just one
step, ahead of the public. It must
provide a solution for some sort of
important problem to which there is
no solution.

Accordingly, in the days of expanding markets and prosperous
trade and commerce, in the days
when tariffs were tariffs and not
not. merely planks in political platforms, the state of the banana crop
had great influence upon the public
mind.

its uniqueness assured success during
such a period of self-satisfied prosperity. Likewise, Prohibition and the
opposition to it provided John Public with a song which expressed the
general desire, especially upon the
part of those who had had no actual
experience before, of becoming gloriously and happily drunk, without a
thought of the after-effects.

And so it was that the rainy
songs had their day at a time when
people were more interested in the
weather of their summer and winter
resorts than in the worries of everyday business life.

The “Hey Nonny Nonny” days reflected the first reaction to the gloom
of depression. Since then there have
been several attempts to bring the
world back to normalcy with a smile
or a fickle grin, but they have failed
except insofar as they were songsuccesses. Today the music must
go “round and round” in order to
keep pace with the turmoil in which
we find ourselves, but there is always the rift in the darkest thunderclouds, and so “it comes out here”,
presaging an early end of the depression proper. The public taste is

| That there should be a scarcity of |
any commodity was so strange that

Se —————— —

: PoETs’ CORNER

aN...
ON A SHOP WINDOW AT NIGHT

Your golden light you cast upon the snow

To share with it your own magnificence

But on the wrinkled path that lurks below

Blue shadows, waving, mock your radiance.

A child with glowing cheeks and happy eyes

With nose pressed hard against your windows stands
Contendtely he plans and picks and buys

And quickly transports all to fairy lands.

A man is there behind the dreaming child

Enticed by you he lingers yet awhile.

At all your mighty show he would have smiled
But sighs instead to see the youngster smile;

Not window riches does this man desire

But of child’s dreams he would perhaps be buyer.

 

ON WRITING A SONNET

Oh Muse! come quickly, cool my burning brow,
There rhyming devils of my poet’s hell
Play tricks with rhythm that I. can’t allow,
And change my meaning by their evil spell.
Come hide me from my grammer’s haunting eyes
Those boring eyes that pierce my vereless lines
Full-stops of mine they scan with mute surprise,
For sentences my spirit weakly pines.
A helpless victim of a fiendish plot
I struggle on with bitter fears of grief
Attempting to be that which I am not
I fill my pen and turn another leaf.
But think, my friends, if writer IT should choose
To be. Ah! who would wish to stay a muse?

more accurately and more frequently,means of escape from the stark

reflected in its reaction to such jin-!reality of the workaday world, and

of expression. little angel sitting high upon a cloud
“Finally, why should you, my|doing nothing all the day but just
sane, sensible, reasonable wife, upon| allowing my mind to relax.”
whom I must depend for a certain| In that there was much truth.
amount of my stability and gravity,| Surely, the main reason for all this
be forever making a show of your-| popularity is that such silly jingles
self by becoming enmeshed im the] provide an escape from our real
net of this frightful noise-thrall?”|selves, just as we feel constrained
“But it is: so hard—whem all life|to talk in an unnatural voice the
seems so dull and drab and drear—}|moment the grease-paint of the amit seems: so impossible to go on|ateur theatrical effort is placed upon
cheerfully.. This sort of half-mean-|our faces.
ingless: bit of jingle seems to provide

WHEN YOU'VE HAD A
MEAL WHICH DOESN'T
QUITE “FILL THE BILL”...

i os
—

Po

gles than im almost any other at me feel as though I were a

(Continued on Page Three)

Tr ee 5
HT

 

 
  
  
   
   
   
  

  

a
a i.
Ht ”

Pin
Fen

“>
#

=


i.

}
" ;
:
“?
ss
7
'
}

 

Last week the terse words, “Pro
the

ae
il alt .
books and scientific articles there
grew up in me a profound admiration for the man and scientist—
Pavlov.

essor Ivan Petrovitch Pavlov is
,”? was flashed to the press of
world. To me that came as

  

some personal loss, for through his

Born of a modest clerical family,

_ whose finest attribute was the desire
to educate their children, Ivan Pavlov came into this world with no

gifts save a liberal and free-spirited

mind. In short measure he became

one of the world’s greatest scientists,

jndeed, the greatest of our day.

That he was respected, both by the

Czarist and revolutionary regimes of |

Russia, is a tribute sufficient to
mark him as a truly great man.

To the student he has always typified the modern enlightened scientist
—the true research man—‘the man
who follows where the evidence
leads”.

A research worker is considered
by most people as one who deals
only with the impractical, and sometimes with the impossible itself. But
human nature is such. Man does not
stop for a moment to glance at the
past; he does not look back to the
times when most diseases were said
to be incurable, and compare it with
the situation as it exists today. If
one should pause, only for a short
while, one must admit, advances in
all fields of human interest have
been spectacular in the past century.

_ Especially is this characteristicly ex
emplified in the field of medicine.
True enough, the research man
himself is for the moment impractical, but soon his discoveries dawn
upon the world and make that world
a better one in which to live. Most
spectacular of all discoveries in the
medical world of the last century
has been the dawn of a greater and

_ more important physiology, the out
growth of the mind of Professor Ivan
Petrovitch Pavlov of the Military

Medical Academy, Leningraw. He

has revolutionized scientific medicine

and has given an impetus for others

to follow. His work can only be

- compared with that of Charles Darwin, whose “Origin of the Species”

has also left an everlasting imprint
upon the thought of the world.

-__—sCNo greater tribute can be bestow
 

- unravelling

ed upon any man than that paid Dr.
Pavlov by H. G. Wells, who, after
visiting the venerable scientist in
1922, wrote: “Pavlov is a star which
lights the world, shining down a
vista hitherto unexplored.” It is
comparable to the tribute paid Milton by Wordsworth when the latter
wrote, “Thy soul was like a star and
dwelt apart.”

Truly enough, Pavlov did dwell
apart. In him there awakened the
desire to explore, the desire to experiment on those things which interested him. It was the ancient
Greek spirit again, reawakened by
the Renaissance, which prompted
Pavloy to his work. His was the belief that all the mysteries of the
world could be uncovered if only
man’s abilities could be cultivated.
He set out to do his best toward
these mysteries of
nature.

His life was guided throughout by

the fervent desire to obtain knowledge, and the energy and singieness
of purpose with which he always

championed scientific truth is re
markable, With an unwavering conviction that truth and science are the
only worthwhile goals in life, says

_his biographer, “Pavlov had always

promptly rejected all compromise,
all considerations which seemed to

=

 

 

 

Birks --.

Many a cherished piece
of jewellery, or faithful
time piece has been restored to service by
Birks’ Repair Departments.

Estimates given without obligation.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

 

be dishonorable, and he had zealously thrown his whole being on the
side of truth and right.”

But Pavlov was not only a successful laboratory investigator: he
was a great scientist, and a prophet,
whose voice sounded above the din
and confusion of the world with a
challenge to find and face facts, to
subject our pride and prejudice in
conformity to them and to follow
where they lead up.

His epitaph might be written in
his own words, uttered with such
awe-inspiring force that it compelled
silence during protests made to unwelcome statements in one of his
lectures: “I am speaking only the
scientific truth, and whether you
will or not, you must hear it.”

Such were the dynamic characteristics of the man Pavlov; it is no
wonder that he stands as the master
in scientific conquests. He has embodied, in his comparatively small
span of time on this earth, a new,
vast understanding of man and his
machinery.

Small wonder, then, that he stands
as a model for lesser lights. In life
he had seen success attained only
in the most difficult manner. To
the end he went on, apparently not
ceasing in his interest for the unknown, and inspiring young bloods
to the venture. In death he has
gained immortality, and a world
thankful for the benefits his genius
had bestowed upon it,

Bee. Ge

COUNCIL HOLDS—

(Continued from Page One)

break even, and promised that this
year would witness the best year in
the history of Dalhousie. Unfortunately Mr. Arnell was detained by
more pressing business and so a
complete analysis of the editorial
work was detailed for the special
meeting next Sunday.

After a brief report by the Malcolm Honor Committee, a representative body from the student forum
held last Saturday asked that the
elections be postponed for one week
to enable the nominees to appear at
a public forum and introduce their
platforms. Although this was considered a good idea, it was pointed
out that the Constitution read that
Student elections should be held on
the first Tuesday of March, and
thus an amendment of the articles
would be necessary. This was impossible in the short notice that
was given, and thus the election date
could not be changed.

(Ed. Note—For the benefit of the
interested students may we remind
them that there is a copy of the
Constitution in the library, and before approaching the Council on
such important matters the Constitution should be carefully read.)

A suggestion was made that Mr,
Murray Ryan be made to pay the
fine that was levied upon him sometime last October for smoking in the
Gym. This was passed.

A letter was read from the Stu
dent Peace Movement asking that | 4,

Dal partake in the rising peace
drive. On a unanimous motion this
was placed in the hands of Mr. Eric
|Mercer, who will be asked to have
charge of the matter.

An additional $24.00 was voted
for basketball meals, and after other
reports on Munro Day, “D’s”, ete
the meeting was adjourned.

?

 

A JINGLE—
(Continued from Page Two)

The great pitfall, however, is that
what begins as an escape should provide just one more worry. Strange
indeed are the requirements of our
mortal nature, but there can be little
more certain than this,that the
jingle is an exceedingly valuable
medium for allowing public opinion
to blow off steam and be happy
about it.

“And so, my dearest Dora,’ I resumed majestically, “you may continue to make everything from the
baby’s crib to my poor head and
back to the bowl of songs, go “round
and round”, for it is better to express than repress such a natural
and healthy outburst.”

 

 

a —

remarking in Pine Hill

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Engineering
News

 

Olives that were mix’d,

Grapefruit supreme,

Asparagus Du Crouton which came
in cream,

Roast N. S. Turkey in Sauce Giblet;

A few more courses and all was et.

Then toasts to the King, the profession, the class,

The University, the faculty and the

Society alas!

The song and the yell,

I’m sorry to tell

Were not heard, we all wonder why.

But my guess is, perchance _

T’was the thought of the dance

That such things were lightly pass’d

by.

There’s none can but grant it,

T’was a very fine banquet

Enjoyed by all I dare say;

For all things were just right

Not a soul was half-tight,

T’was indeed a wonderful day.
WILLIAM ENGINEER.

SS

We have heard complaints that the
Dalhousie girls are boisterous. Perhaps so, but aren’t also the Dalhousie boys girlsterous.

* *&

Apparently TYM (This Year’s
Monstrosity) was not in the least
bothered by the comments we made
on the medical students a few weeks
ago. Perhaps an “Apple a day keeps
the Doctor away” campaign will
arouse a little action.

Bites. (OK Tak

A certain freshman engineer who
hails from the land of tomales and
tequila was a few weeks ago recounting of his exploits in the jungle
of his native land. He tells one rather thrilling story of how he bagged a huge tiger. Doubting the
veracity of the tale we made it our
business to find out the real facts of
the story. Very fortunately we encountered a man who accompanied
our hero on the trip and we asked
him for the real details. On asking
him of our embryo engineer had
really bagged a tiger, he replied,
“Yes, he bagged him alright, he bagged and bagged him to go away.”

%K * *
He never drank; he never smoked
He never went out with a femme
But he read all the stocking and
lingerie ads.
And he learned about women from
them.
* * *

Last week several of the boys in
the drafting room were complaining
of the cold weather. One member, a
native of Truro, was rather amused
by these complaints since he hailed
from a town where the mercury
drops right out of the bottom of the
thermometer. However, Truronians
are a very hardy people (something
like the Newfoundlanders) and are
really not very perturbed by the
frost. Pete tells one story of a man
who was walking along one cold day
noticing his shadow following him as
he went; suddenly the shadow stopped. The man moved off about
twenty feet but the shadow stayed
stubbornly behind. This rather
amazed the chap who went ???- t
investigate the cause of this rather
unnatural phenomena.

Well it appears that it was so cold

earth, absolutely congealed.
that if he left the place
a man without shadow, he immediately began to shout for aid. In a
few minutes assistance arrived and it
took four men with crow bars three
hours forty seven and one half minutes to pry that shadow loose. Well
we must grant that that is pretty
cold weather.

Pete tells us that now the people|®° °P 4 tear, it is all wrong. What
of Truro are equipping their shadows | ¥° ™P» then ye must also sew.

with ear muffs and hot water heaters.

selfish for

she has taken

ae ge

A woman is necessarily an evil,

And he is a lucky man who catches|}man wears pants, then they are
plural, while if he goes without

her in the mildest form.
MENANDER.

Se

THE GLEE GLUB—

(Continued from Page One)

 

master, and particularly to Pat MacDonald, the stage-director, for the
score was a real achievement.

So the little Dalhousians clapped
and clapped and went home happily
fashion
It was a fine show!” |

“Praie God!

‘to

| realistically angry when she is mor
at the shadow was frozen to the |
Fearing |
he would be |

 

We notice one little woman| Whether pants is or are singular or
from Truro who is apparently very| Plural. Of course, there is the old
her | Claim that it or they is singular at
shadow’s earmuffs for her own use.|the top and plural at the bottom.

lines from the pen of Percy B. Shilly:

 

PANTS

Pants are made for men and not
for women; women are made for
men and not for pants; when a man
pants for a woman and a woman
pants for a man, then they are a
pair of pants. Such pants don’t last.
If you want to make pants last,
make the coat first.

 

When a street-car passes a woman who desires to place her form
therein, she merely smiles sweetly
at the driver and Mother Nature
does the rest: the tram stops on the
spot. When a man has the same desire and his tram proceeds rapidly
to a point not less than eighteen feet
beyond the next Cars Stop Here
post and everyone glares at the
tardy commuter. To soften the
glare, the insect usually runs and
being in the condition in which most
males exist, his breath comes in
short pants, thus acquiring a childlike sweetness.

Men sometimes make mistakes in
their pants, or objects of affection,
and call a rough tweed a sweet,
while tides of love serge through
him. In the end, the suit is taken
law and the male is usually
worsted from being cotten compromising statements as he pressed
his suit and got clothes and clothser
to her innocent heart. The suit is
usually cut down into a breeches of
promise and the plaintiff goes skiing
in Swizerland and the defendant
swears off sheing in any land.

There is perhaps nothing more
appealing to theoptical and aesthetic
sense as the female form in shorts.
But place that same divine body
within a pair of skiing slacks which
were made ample enough to cover
the rear end of a truck and you
have a goat-like object—a magnificent front and ridiculous end. I cannot desist from pausing to wistfully
reminisce over an incident.

A young lady had borrowed a
part of a skiing outfit which was
well termed slack, especially about
the waist and which—horror of horrors!—slipped as she walked. But
she was filled with the spirit of her
pioneer forbears and braved the
wilds of Oxford Street. Assuming
a nonchalant air, she walked with
her hands thrust deep in the pockets
to support the slacks.

Then she saw him! The big blond
brute who had dared to oppose her
wishes! Indignation flared high
within her and she strode across to
him and vented her wrath upon his
rocklike features. She wished active co-operation! What did she
get from him? Not even a dignified
acquiescence to her wishes! Every |
word was emphatically punctuated
by a vicious kick of her foot in the
snow and a wave of her arm. He
watched her intently, drinking in
her fiery beauty and the significance
of her words. He heeded not the
pile of snow being kicked at him,
although it now mounted above his
ankles. Her point was almost won.
His lips opened to promise obedience |
to her wishes—and then the slacks |
slipped! What woman can be |

tified by embarassment? . No more

| than a man can fight: without his

pants. A smile cracked the. rocklike features of the brute..A chuckle
rumbled deeply in his thorax, and |
he left her, speechless, sanding|
there holding up the truant slacks.
Another triumph for masculinity |
and the inherent ability to wear
pants with dignity!

But to return to the subject. Men |
may go on a tear in their pants and |
it is all right, but when the pants!

 

There is some discussion as to

But the final, deciding test of their

number is in the wearing: If a

them, it is decidedly singular. The
Greeks had a name for such men—
so have we.

In closing, may I quote a few
“As pants the soldier for his beans,
So pants my soul for these:

A pair of pants with sturdy seams,
And fleece-lined B. V. D.’s.

My reason? I can soon confirm it:
Without them I should be a hermit.

 

es nnnnnnnnn=n= === 2... nn nnn ne erred
—————

ee
SS
a

 

| sence of the March, Hare no

Page Three

24 Hours

ee

SWEET

ae
cA

4; BN Ps .
ein

POMP AND CEREMONY

(Continued from Page One) |

Only then could he do his talents
justice. He shrugged, he gesticulated,
he shrieked, he called down maledictions on all present, and when he had
fully portrayed the horrors of a
Liberal regime he painted a pastoral
portrait of the innocuous joys of
Tory rule.

If the Liberals co-operated with
him, he assured the House and
Canadians in general, all might just
be well. At this stage he seemed to
view Canada’s future as through the
bottom of an empty glass — very
rosily. He then ended his reply.

He was an old man, he said as
the salt tear dimmed his eye, eager

for that abode where the wicked’

cease from troubling and the weary
are at rest; yet, he would add, he

owed Canada much and would as!

quickly in his old age respond to the
call of duty as he had in the carefree flush of youth.

Up rose Wm. Armstrong, Prime
Minister of Canada.
the cares of state sat heavy upon

 

Quite evidently |

aCe

Miss Spaull To

'Speak on Russia

 

On Tuesday, March 10th, at noon,
Miss Hebe Spaull will conduct a
Students’ Forum on the subject of
“Modern Russia”. Miss Spaull, lecturer, author, member of the staff
of the League of Nations’ Union in
Great Britain, is an authority on the
northern countries of Europe and
speaks not from hearsay but from
wide travel and intimate contact with
the people.

To quote her: “My method is just

| the direct one of acquiring, by first
hand experience, knowledge of the
people in one country and then passing it along to those of other countries. Not only the people but their
problems, their successes and failures. I aim never to talk in abstract
terms, but to interpret in the light
of the actual life and conditions of
the people.”

Miss Spaull has lectured extensively in Great Britain and British
India. A native school in the State

him. Mr. Fisher’s speech had not!of Travancore was so anxious to
lessened these and he was disposed! hear her during her Indian tour that

to regard the leader of the Opposition with a bilious eye. He started
slowly, overwhelmed by the heinousness of Mr, Fisher’s address and the
political heresies and mutilations of
fact it contained.

As his wrath mounted he gathered momentum crushing the Opposition-beneath a mass of statistics and
repressed indignation. He was “telling” Mr, Fisher and indeed he was.

The Minister of Justice, Mr. Landreville, who had been giving vent
to subterraneous rumblings all evening was now afforded an opportunity to speak. And speak he did but
he soon had to call on God and the
House of Commons to witness his
inadequacy to do justice in English
to Fisher’s complete lack of honor.
Bursting into a torrent of French
before which even the intrepid Fisher
quailed he was called to task by the
Speaker for his loose language.

Doe Byrne, Reconstructionist, sat
in splendid isolation among the Independents. He reminded the House,
with lugubrious woe, of Benes
days when he and his son were the |
White Knights of the last campaign
and jousted right manfully for political honors. Now sits he there and
none so poor as do him reverence.

Mr. McPherson to the consternation of the House then demanded to
know, “Why is Wheat?”

 

In the ab
could answer and the incident closed
amid general relief.

The last speaker was Lucifer
Leonard, the Fallen Angel, who sang
of the woes of Paradise. He comthe decadence of his once
abode with the pampered luxury of
Hell in the guise of the Cape Breton
coal mines. He could see no reason
why Hell should be subsidised and
Paradise denied; and, clearly dissatisfied with his fallen state, he subsided; when
sine die,

pared

the House adjourned

 

SMALL BALLOT—
(Continued from Page One)
Class ’39:
Gordon Johnson.
Wallace Wright.
Engineering Society:
Eric Stephenson.
Ted Watson.
Freshman Representative:
John Carroll,
George Murphy.

SS SS SS

it arranged an address for six
o’clock in the morning, the only
hour which Miss Spaul could work
into her crowded itinerary.

During her four-day stay in Halifax she will address a number of
gatherings, including a public meeting on Monday evening, March 9th.
Miss Spaull, who is here under the
auspices of the Youth Unit of the
Halifax League of Nations Society,
will take as her subject Monday

evening, “Soviet Russia and World
Peace”,

 

Cubs Trim Kings
In Hoop Match

The Dalhousie Cubs continued to
win in the Intermediate fixture at
the Studley gymnasium on Friday,
Feb. 28. The King’s quintette started the game at a fast clip and
scored two baskets in the first 30
seconds, Murphy and Archibald finding the hoop, to go into a 4—0 lead.
This was the only time during the
game that they were ahead.

Two quick field goals by Saunderson and Baird soon tied the count,
and from that point the Dal five
took control, easily outplaying their
opponents and, led by Don Saunderson and “Rusty” Baird, being on
the long end of a 28—9 score_at the
halfway mark, .

On the resumption of play King’s
pressed hard, but they could “not

penetrate the Cubs’ defence, while

(Continued on Page Four)

 

 

 

After a Show
Or At Any Time

A Hot or Cold Drink,
a Lunch or Ice Cream
in a bright and pleasant place.

 

 

The Green Lantern

 
    
    
   

  
 

 

| 4. 4—1 lead in the first inning,

til the fifth, when the Doctors

ett ae mm ee ee, ee ee hp dye 3 4s) WA
—

, them well down in the éellar position, while Medicine is still in the
| running for Freshmen and Dentistry
See for the Interfaculty title.

et za | Leibowitz and Stoddard aoe See
ical | a _, | standing for the winners, while Feny, Feb. 28. The Doctors went dell anil Winter were the pick of the
Artsmen.

  

id oe
Pilea ,

put the Theologs | came back eget ’ The lineups:— |
to push over one run in each of the _ Medicine—Duggan 2, MacLellan 5,

séeond and third innings, followed
by thrée in the fourth, at the same
tine holding the Meds scoreless un
Mitchell 4; Harris 2, Mackles, Stoddard 4, Leibowitz 4, Simon 2, Horowith 4, Tafeen 2.

Arts & Science—Winter 4; Greenberg 2, Fendell 2, Ross, Weiner.

Freshmen Down Meds.

The Frosh hockey sextet gained a
berth in the Interfaculty Hockey
playoffs when they defeated a five
Harry Gaum was on the mound|man Med team by a 2—0 score on
for the boys from the Forrest Build-| Wednesday, Feb. 27, at the Halifax
ing and pitched a good game, but/Forum. The game was the slowest
ragged support proved his undoing,|of the series and the Freshmen, by
while MacKenzie of the Theologs,/their win, earned the right to meet
after a ragged start, had the Doc-|Law, winners of the other section,
tors well under control for the re- in a two-game total-goal series for
mainder of the game. the Interfaculty title held by Medi
The lineups:— cine. The Doctors entered a protest

'Medicine—Seigel, MacLellan, Mil-|on the ground that they had insuf
réd their last run and had the
ae fun on third base, only to
have MacKenzie tighten up and retire the third Med and bring Pine
Hill into a tie with Law and Medicine for first place in the league

ler, Epstein, Gaum, Garten, Miller,| ficient notice, but it was disallowed.
; ’

-- game, but was afforded ragged sup
- Houle, Cougle, Diamond, Freidlander, Leon, Heflick, Messinger.

Med. Wins Hoop Match
Arts and Science continued to
lose in the Interfaculty Basketball
League when on Wednesday, Feb.
26, when they were overwhelmed. by

Irvin, Mitchell.

Pine Hill — MacLeod, MacIntosh,
MacLean, MacKenzie, Watts, MacDonald, MacSween, Findley, MacPherson.

 

THEOLOGS WIN SECOND GAME

In their second game of the evening the Theologs overwhelmed Dentistry by an 8—1 score. MacKenzie,
pitching this game also, had the
Dentists eating out of his hand from
the beginning, while his teammates
piled up a commanding lead for him
to work and gave him good support.

Ken Cougle, who was on the
mound for Dentistry, pitched a good

port, while being hit freely.
The lineup:—

Dentistry — Liebowitz, Figman,

 

a 29—8 score by Medicine. The
Doctors, still stinging from their
last minute defeat at the hands of
the Frosh, took the lead at the start
and were never headed, controlling
the play throughout and outplaying
the Artsmen in every department of
the game, and at the halfway mark
led, 18—6.

In the second period play grew
rougher in customary interfaculty
style, but the Meds showed this to
be even more to their liking and
held the Artsmen to a single basket, at the same time scoring 11
points themselves.

This marks the fifth straight defeat for Arts and Science and keeps

|...COMing Up...

| a
=a

 
   

Pet
Ql// Ia

(as

Reed
oo

  

  

    

    

  

  

DUCKINGHAM
20 for 20¢- 25 for 25¢- 50 for50¢

3 ee oe

Both teams played poor hockey
throughout, and only the superior
numbers of the yearling sextet gave
them the advantage. It was not until half way through the second
period that either team scored, but
the Frosh tallied twice in quick succession for the only goals of the
game—Bill Napier firing home the
first on a pass from Marshall, and
Marshall registering the second on
MacDuff’s assist. For the rest of
the game the Doctors pressed hard
in an effort to tie up the score, but
were unable to beat Phillips in the
Frosh nets.

Duffy, hard-hitting defenceman of
the Doctors, was outstanding for
the losers, breaking up many of the
Frosh rallies and playing a very aggressive game on the attack.

The Frosh first line of Napier,
MacDuff, and Marshall were outstanding for the winners, playing

|good hockey when they wanted to,

but wanting to very seldom.

The lineups:—

Medicine—Goal: Sproull; defence:
Duffy; forwards: Miller, Burley,
Bryant.

Freshmen—Goal: Phillips; defence:
Henrry, Anderson; forwards: MacDuff, Napier, Marshall, Kaufman,
Gaudet, Purves, Lavers.

 

Dentistry Cagers Win

In the roughest game of the
league to date, Dentistry set back
a strong Law team in a regular interfaculty league fixture on Wednesday, Feb. 26, by a 17—12 score.
Play was rough from the opening
whistle and the customary loose refereeing did not aid matters much,
with several near fights resulting.
Play was fairly even throughout,
with the Dentists having a slight advantage and leading by a small
margin at half time.

During the second period the Lawyers pressed hard, but the Dents
staved them off until the final
whistle and deserved their victory.

This keeps Dentistry in first place
and their winning streak unbroken.

Hal Connor and Glen Smith earried the burden of the Law attack,
while Liebowitz and Phil Stein were
outstanding for the losers.

The lineups:—

Law—MacKeigan, Connor 6, Gunter 2, Smith 4, Webber, DeWolfe,
Thompson,

Dentistry—Liebowitz 10, Stein 4,
Heflick, Zukerman 8, Freed, Rogers,
Domnitz, Diamond.

CUBS TRIM KINGS—
(Continued from Page Three)

the Dal quintette time and again
found holes in their opponents’ wideopen style of play for easy baskets.

The game was singularly clean.
Referee Harvey Harris, who handled
it alone, called a total of only 8 personal fouls—6 on the Cubs and 2 on
the Kingsmen.

Archibald, Kent and Hutchins were
outstanding for the losers, while
Saunderson and Baird turned in
good games for the Cubs.

The lineups:—

King’s — Hutchins 2, Wetmore 2,
Kent 6, Willett, Archibald 6, Cook,
VanHorne 2, Smith, Murphy 2.

Dalhousie—E. Stewart 8, Murphy
3, L. Stewart, Lyall 2, Baird 12
Saunderson 9, Dean, Kerman 4.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sports on Parade

   

 

Medicine has been shouting protests galore.
win by Freshman pucksters the Meds are certain they were
caught unprepared. “Red” Sparrow, our worthy vigilant over
gymnastic affairs, states that the Med team had been informed
three hours before the game—and also the notice was illegibly
serawled in pencil on the bulletin board for two weeks. You
can’t blame the Meds, in a fashion—they were trounced in
hockey, softball and basketball.

The Freshmen have hopes of wearing at least three interfaculty pins when the awards are made. They should express
their gratitude to Barnhill for doing noble work in heightening
interfaculty interest and advocating appropriate awards.

ok *

Our erratic Seniors paid homage to the “Y” squad last
week. The splendid showings made at practice would have
tempted any prudent sport fan to place a wager on the collegiate five. Their main disastrous failing was in foul shooting.
Eighteen fouls were called and only one lonely point recorded.
a ee, ie

Mr. Stirling has robbed the intermediates of their keystone man, “Rusty” Baird, and placed him with the Seniors.
Netting basket upon basket, using the three “giant” line, according to observers at the last practice, Dal is slated for uninterrupted victories. It’s about time, team, so come on.

If Dal turns back the Wanderers, (game played last Wed
nesday), we can say without correction that another championship is ours.

Did I forget somebody? Oh yes, the girls’ basketball team.

Has someone mentioned that the girls intend to retaliate for
their defeat last Saturday, on March 10th?
Es % * te 7%

In the recent |

EE
rr 
There you are, fellow students. Munro Day on March 11th

—it’s a literal sport festival.

| keep it mum.

Who will take the first step? See you on the train, but

 

Y.M.C.A. Hoopsters| ACADIA CO-EDS

Trim Senior Tigers

Wanderers became more firmly entrenched in first position in the
Senior City Basketball League by
virtue of the single point victory
of the Y.M.C.A. over the Dalhousie
Senior five on Wednesday, Feb. 26,
at the Association gymnasium.

It was the first of the Tigers’
away-from-home games and one of
the two most important in their
schedule, the other being that with
Wanderers, played last Wednesday.
Both teams were far below their
usual standard, and the game,
though exciting, was the poorest exhibition of basketball seen this year
in the Senior circuit.

Dalhousie opened the scoring on
two quick baskets by Baird and
Musgrave in the first minute of play,
but the Association quintette came
right back and scored 8 points with- |
out a return, to go into an 8—4
lead at the six minute mark.

The Tigers then took control for
the remainder of the period and, led
by Ted Crease, were on the long end
of a 17—12 score at the interval.
Johnny Wilson led the “Y” attack
during the first 20 minutes of play,
using his height to good advantage
and scoring half his team’s points.

On the resumption of play the
Tigers, who cannot seem to stand
any prosperity in a close match, lost
their lead, on baskets by Wilson and
Parker, in the first five minutes.
Until the ten minute mark was
reached there was no further scoring. Then Musgrave broke the ice
for Dal and gave the Tigers the
lead on a nice play, only to have
Parker regain it for the Association.
Another basket by Ted Crease was
matched by another one by Parker,
who was playing great ball, and one
by brother Doug was duplicated by
Chuck Lorway, until, with two minutes of play remaining, the Y.M.C.A.
were ahead 25—23.

The Tigers’ greatest weakness,
their shooting of penalties, again
proved their downfall. Although

 

they outscored the winners 12 field
goals to 9, the Y’s found the hoop
8 times out of 17 attempts on free
awards, while the Tigers scored one
lone foul shot out of 12 attempts.

 

 

Today, Sat. & Mon.

Harold Lloyd

in the
: ”
“Milky Way
with
ADOLPH MENJOU

and

PENCE TEASDALE
HELEN MACK

 

 

 

 

TRIMS DAL

 

A determined rally in the last five
minutes of play gave the Acadia Coeds a decisive victory over the Dalhousie girls’ team in a regular Intercollegiate League match played
at the Studley gymnasium on Saturday, Feb. 29. Previously defeated
by Mt. Allison at Sackville, this loss
practically eliminated the Dal team
from their quest of the Mariaime
Championship, for the second successive year. Play was very dull
and ragged during the first half,
with Acadia leading 5—0 at the end
of the first quarter and 5—4 at halftime.

Both teams seemed to find themselves and the shooting increased in
accuracy in the last 20 minutes,
with the Dalhousians holding the
visitors to a 18—10 lead as the third
quarter ended.

For the first five minutes of the
final quarter, play was very even,
with neither side scoring, but with
only five minutes of play remaining
and the score still the same, Vivian
Douglas was banished for fouls.
Acadia then pressed hard and
scored 9 points in quick succession
without a reply from the homesters,
and when the game ended they were
on the long end of a 24—10 score.

This win puts Acadia in first place,
with Dalhousie in the cellar and Mt.
Allison in between.

Jean Ingraham and Frances Roach
for the visitors and Shirley Elliott,
tall centre, showed some nice combination and shooting, and were outstanding for the winners, while Isabel Fraser and Margaret Woolaver
were the pick of the losers.

The lineups:—

Acadia — Ingraham 12, Illsey,
Schwartz 1, Elliott 7, Roach 4, Long,
Beaton, Battye, Chandler, Harris,

Dalhousie—Dobson 2, MacDonald,
Schwartz, Pentz 2, Hall, Fraser 6,
Stewart, Armstrong, Woolaver, Hartling, Douglas.
i

Y. M. C. A.—Wilson 11, Smith a
Goudey 1, Beazley 1, Lorway 4,
Parker 8, Tousaw.

Shainhouse, T. Crease 8, Baird 8,
Musgrave 6, MaclLeod, MacIntosh 2.

 

CASINO

STARTING SATURDAY
MARCH 7th
THE STAR OF
“DAVID COPPERFIELD”

The Sensation of
“THE INFORMER”
DAMON RUNYON’S
Rollicking Story of

Adventure

 

Freddie Bartholomew
Victor McLaglen
PROFESSION AL

Dalhousie—D. Crease 4, Miler
SCLDIER

 

Friday, March 6, 1936

TIGERS’ HOOP HOPES VANISH
AS WANDERERS SCORE WIN

Playing a fast and excellent brand
of ball, the Black and Red squad put
Dal out of the running for the
championship.

A long centre shot by Baird started the scoring melee. The score was
equalled shortly after by Young.
Musgrave then sent a bullet-pass to

|

 

titude, helping them to add more
points to their small lead. Satisfied
that the game was in their hands,
the Wanderers froze the ball threequarters of a minute before the
game ended, keeping Dal from any
further scoring.

MaeIntosh, Teddy Crease and Musgrave were Dal’s outstanding players, while Bauld and White shone
for the Wanderers. Line-ups:

Dal—D. Crease, Musgrave 8, Miller, Shainehouse, T. Crease 7, Baird
2, Tokash, MacLeod 4, MacIntosh 5.

Wanderers — Oxley 4, Chisholm,
Young 4, White 9, Bauld 10, Harris
4, Piers 1.

Referees: Mandelstan, Dunlop.

 

MacIntosh, who scored from far in
the corner. He repeated the feat,
adding another to Dal’s credit.

Young and White executed a
well-timed play when they crisscrossed through the Dal team to net
a marker for their team. Alternative
shooting and fouling found the half
over, with Dal ahead, 19—15.

Dal took to the floor in a steady
and confident manner at the start of
the second half. Mit Musgrave increased the Dal lead when he flipped
a wild shot over his head, the ball
tickling the rim for several seconds
before passing through the rim.

The ball passed up and down the
floor, bouncing from arms and faces,
reaping ineffectual fouls for both
teams. Oxley then scored, followed

 

ST. JOHN TO DEBATE—

(Continued from Page One)

team have a very fine reputation as
public speakers, and Fisher and
Richardson are probably the strongest team ever to represent Dalhousie.
The topic is: “Resolved that the B.
by Bauld, to bring the Wanderers to|N. A. Act should be amended only
within one point of Dal. Ted Crease| with the consent of all the Provwas roughened up quite noticeably ties” And while it will be debated
and was awarded a shot, which he|by lawyers, the legal aspect of the
made. question will not be considered para
Dal began to weaken at this stage |mount, but the economic and politiand threw many opportunities away. | cal aspects will receive the most
The Wanderers retained a level at-| attention.

 

 

 

  

PLAIN OR
CORK TIP

 
 

COSTLIER MILDER TOBACCOS
Buy your Crested BRITISH CONSOLS at the Tuck Shop
a OUT rested BRITO CONSUL: at the luck shop

 

FOR THE YEAR’S SPORT—
FOR THE YEAR’S DEBATING—
FOR THE YEAR’S GLEE CLUB—

FOR EVERYTHING DALHOUSIE FOR
THIS YEAR OF OUR LORD 1935-36—

Buy A

YEAR
BOOK

 

PHONE YOUR ORDER

TO THE BUSINESS MANAGER

 

 

Ande,

—

aos = —_

 

term

 

 
