 

 

tmnt

Minister

 
  
  

   

ey coe)

Te

 

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 7, 1936

 

 

 

Society Presents Medals

EDWARD ‘ARAB

at Names

m EE - s

 
  

 

The following cabinet has been
named by the Liberal party:

Prime Minister, President of Privy

Council, Secretary of State for

External Affairs—Right Honourable William Frederick Arm
strong.

Minister of Finance—Right Honourable Dougtas Fraser Bentley.
Minister of Railways, Canals and
Marine—Right Honourable Ro
bert Faulkner McLellan.

the first meeting in seven weeks,
Minister of Justice—Hon. Leo Al-} F.ocio Arab, known as the Human &

bert Landreville.
Minister of National Defence—Hon.
Irving Charles Pink.

Minister of Public Works—Hon.
Arthur Joseph Meagher.

Minister of Labor—Hon.
John Khattar.

Minister of Pensions and National
Health—Hion. Simon Webber.
Minister of National Revenue—
Hon. Edward Symons McLatchy.
Minister of Fisheries—Hon. John

Smith Maclvor.
Minister of Agriculture—Hon. ‘Charles Wilkie Grant.
Minister of Trade and Commerce—

Simon

Hon. Dougald Herman Sutherland. f
Postmaster General—Hon. Duncan
Chisholm.

Minister of Immigration and Interior—Hon. Ian Malcolm. MacKeigan. __

Secretary of State—Hon. William
Pitfield McIntyre.

without Portfolio—Hon.

Herbert Hiram Gunter.

es

NOTICE

At the last meeting of the
Council of Students, George
Murphy was nominated a committee of one to look after the

conflict of the various Dalhousie activities. All Societies are
asked to get in touch with Mr.
Murphy, informing him of the
dates of their meetings, games,
ete. This is the first step towards avoiding the much talked about conflicts. Kindly co
   
 

   
  

Jack Buckley and Edward Arab
slightly the
better off for a few drinks, out of
the icy waters of the Arm last Sun
pulled an unfortunate,

day. The Law Society awarded
them with a leather medal for their
efforts.

p'ete with crest in sealing wax was
presented by Miss McDonald. Doc
Bryne made the following speech:

The colorful insignia com
An honor has been bestowed upon
me in the duty of rewarding in a
fitting manner two of our fellow
members of this School of Law, for
bravery and courage and fortitude
in the face of danger. The Society
therefore award them the medal for
the “Royal Society for the Protection of Irebriates.” They will be
bestowed a knighthood on behalf of

aasie, Emperor of all Etbtiopia (all
that is left). They will be conduct‘ed into the order of‘Feltha Thigh.

Allow me to outline the situation.
Last Sunday while most of us sat

before a fire, engrossed in the deep}

studies of the intricacies of the law,
‘these two men heard above the icy
blast of the gale and the snapping
of the frost, the cry of a fellow human in distress. Immediately forsaking books and! hearth they rushed to the shores of that treacherous

body of water, the North West Arm, |.

and there saw a fellow creature, not
a Polar Bear member. Edward

Fly, began a perlious approach over
the thin treacherous ice while John
| Sarsfield Buckley, known as _ the
Human — the raven haired, sun
tanned idol of Bermuda, with great
presence of mind, procured a piece
of rope and being an exponent of
the art of “slinging,” propelled the
rope with such precision and accuracy dropping the noose around the
neck of the victim, shouting, “Grab
that piece of Manilla hemp!” and
pulled him to the safety, security
and comfort of the beach.

Gentlemen, such skill, such cour‘age, such presence of mind must not
go unrewarded. Such an_ exploit
has not been noted since.the days of
“Windy” Leonard, pride of Annapolis Valley who with his famed “hot
dawgs” caused the immediate departure of the Apple Queen from
this land of mortals, saving her the
lingering death from the ravages of
disease and old age.

To the crys of “speech!” Mr.
Buckley. replied.
“Boys, it was nothing. I jumped

into the frigid waters, seized his
200 pounds. with my left hand and
held him aloft. Meanwhile the
water had frozen about me. With
my strong right arm I pounded a
way to the wharf. With a gentle
propelling shove I then heaved his
bulk to the dock, twenty feet above
Boys, it was nothing.”

- Arab biushing slightly added:
)“It was I who lifted their combined
weight, which counting the icicles

a good half ton. It was rather diffi-|a young man we know—Jack Viccult.

I’m growing old.”

_ Gracious Majesty Haile Sel
eee

 

which formed as I raised them aloof,

  

—the Dalhousie

scene.

COUNCIL HOLDS
FIRST MEETING

The Council met on Tuesday eveningin the Law classroom to consider
a lengthy agenda. Pleas for repairs to the Glee Club chesterfield,
appointment of a member of the
Council to act as an information
bureau and a request for a grant "|
send a badminton team to Mt. A.
were the highlights.

Mr. Roy appeared for the Glee

Dalhousie. Wins
Opening [ Debate

Ernest Higgins and Simon Webber
defeated University of Bishop’s Colilege in the opening debate of the
Radio Series to keep Dalhousie in the
running for the Canandian Shield.

The opening debate of the Eastern
Section of the Radio Commission’s

 

Re
be

that the chesterfield was in a state | the negative of the resolution:
of said repair. Twenty dollars only | solved that sweepstakes should
was required to fix it; it will be re- | legalized in Canada against Bishop’;

paired, but the Glee Club must pay “College, Quebec, with Messrs. Higfor it. gins and Webber getting the decision
Mr. Barnhill presented a budge: 0V€? 5. J. Davis and K. H. Annette.
from the D.A.A.C: for $35.00 to| Davis, Bishop’s leader, declared
cover League deficit. Also, a re- that since lotteries are already with
quest to send a badminton team to US» and since the great majority of
Mt. A The League deficit was anadians are supporting them in
granted, but since badminton isi °P@? defiance of the law, let us
played for pleasure and recreation by legalize them. Canadians consider
iia. atademts. “and was nota major | the lotteries that are held every da)
sport, the Council decided that the
trip should be deferred.
* * *

Where And Who Are The Council?

Last night’s meeting of the Council represented the first meeting of
this body since the middle of December. The progress of the Year Book,
budgets of the various societies, and
general student business had to wait
until the elected representatives from
the various classes and_ societies
could spare an evening to attend.
The absence of one member of the
Council, who was enjoying his vacation, represented such a serious bar
to the administration of student affairs that th lesser lights remained

they are breaking the law. He maintained that its adoption would be as

day liquor laws.

Annette followed up these arguments by declaring that prohibitionary laws in opposition to the will of
the people would only serve to bring
laws into disrespect, and the reputation of Canada as a democratic
country would suffer. Such a move
would, he said, remove the bootlegger
from sweepstakes, and create greater respect for the law.

Ernest Higgins maintained that
economically sweepstakes did not
justify themselves, and morally
would destroy the principles of
common honesty and habits of industry. The desire to get something
for nothing is at the root of all fraud
and the legalization of sweepstakes
would but place legal sanction on
that which the law could not now
control. The question is not whether
Sweepstakes can be checked, but
whether they should be legalized,

Simon Webber pointed out that the

in darkness until his return.
And despite the fact that this was

Miss Sumner, Fisher, Manning,
Thompson and Taylor were all that
could stay until the meeting ended
at 9.30—in fact, the meeting was
held without a quorum being present,
except for a short time at the beginning of the meeting.. Miss Fraser
Murphy and Petrie were present for
a short time, but pressing business
or the basketball game drew their English hospitals have protested
attention at eight o’clock. MacLellan, '#&@!nst any move towards legalizing

Continued on Page Three) | Sweepstakes. The Canadian Com
;mons have turned down an Act to
Dental Society Sanne af them. The change to legalPrepares For Show

 

 

ization is merely going from bad to
worse. It would undermine the
standards of the moral life of the
country.

Mr. Davis closed the debate with a
brief rebuttal, stating that they were
not defending the morality of sweepstakes, but rather that it would be
better to legalize them and have the

people retain their respect for the
law.

The next debate of the series in
which Dalhousie will participate will
be against the winner of the U.N.B.
—Mt. A. debate, which takes place
Friday, February 7th, on February
14th. The topic will be: Resolved
that University students should refrain from political activity.

arr

 

This week we take you on a personally conducted tour through one
of our faculties of higher pupilage
University Faculty
of Dentistry.

We enter the Forrest Building—
and as we turn to the left a sign
informs us that we have arrived at
our destination—The Dental Clinic.
As we glance through the door we
see a scene typical of such an institution. The soothing hum of the
dental engine offers a striking contrast to the high strung, neurotic
patients in the chairs. The gentlemen in white coats—Dentists of tomorrow, appear carefree, happy and
unconcerned. The smell of antiseptics and sedatives so characteristic of a dental office permeate
ones nostrils and adds a touch of
rea‘ity to the otherwise striking

NOTICE
The committee in charge of the
Year Book announce that all
graduates who desire to have

photographs in this year’s Pharos
must have the same taken before
February 15th. This is the last
day for such photographs;
operate with Pharos.

But let us inspect these apparently contented embryo dentists
from closer quarters. There stands

Sella ae ee eee re ee a

co
(Continued on Page Four)

 

a Club Presents Majo
DAL WINS FIRST RADIO DEBATE

Sg > € +
Debating Series was held last Fri. | room

Club, and apologetically announced day night, with Dalhousie upholding | | Hall.

as a normal and natural thing, and |
in most cases, do not realize that Punch, Montreal Gazette, The, Mid
logical and successful as the present.

 

 

 

   

 

eae Store
Profits Buy
Periodicals

 

The committee in charg:
University Store has recently

from the book business of the store

for tte purchase of newspapers and

of the
appropriated a portion of the profits

MM

 

Watch For
The
Haunted
House

 

VVQVODINANI000000.0S00 0000.00 0000 0 Ee

   

 

 

 

No.

15

 

jor Show

FIRST OFFERING OF 1936 TO
BE HELD ON TUESDAY NIGHT

 

| On Tuesday, February 1ith, the
major Glee Club Show of the year
will be offered.

“The Haunted House” a mystery
|story enlivened with plenty of hu| nour will be offered.

ihe story involves two honeymooners who are followed by the

groom’s former fiancee.
A murder is committed which is

periodica's for the men’s common|S0!ved at least three times by an

ed for the men’s
|The New York Times, Sunday Edi
ie The Toronto Saturday Night,

The Strand, Harpers, Time, The
Canadian Boris. The Dalhousie Review. In addition, newspaper holders and reading-room binders for
periodicals have been purchased for
the common room.

Among the _ periodicals selected |

for Shirreff Hall are: New York
Times, Sunday edition, New Republic, Harpers, Queen’s Quarterly,

week Pictorial, The National Geographic. |

Some of these periodicals have
already been received and others

should arrive shortly.

The committee in charge of the
University Store consists of Professor J. M. Macdonald, Chairman,
Professor R. A. MacKay, and a
representative of The Students’
Council. Last year Professor J. H.
L. Johnstone substituted for Professor MacKay who was on leave
of absence.

The University Store is now in
its sixth year of successful operation. It was started by a committee
consisting of Mr. Murray Rankin,
Professors Macdonald and MacKay,
and Mr. George Mahon who was
then on the Students’ Council. It
was organized for two purposes:
(1) to meet the demands of the stu
| dents of the day for a tuck shop on

the campus; and (2) to provide the
students with better service and
cheaper text books than could be
then obtained from the commercial
booksellers in the city. A concession was granted the Canadian National Institute for the Blind to
operate the tuck shop and stationery
business. In return, the operator
placed in charge by the Institute
has to assist in retailing the books:
Mr. R. W. Atwood was placed in
charge as operator by the Institute,
and has since continued to serve the
student body in this capacity.

The book business was begun
without capital. Even stamps had
to be borrowed. -But due-to the cooperation of the publishers concerned, textbooks were obtained on
credit, and business was begun.
Subsequently a loan of $200 was received from the Students’ Council
to support the credit of the book
business. This loan has since been
repair in full.

The Store has always been able to

meet its financial obligations
promptly, and it enjoys a sound
reputation with the publishers.

Each year it has made a small profit after paying all costs of operation. In addition students have
been supplied with textbooks at
lower prices than those hitherto obtained in commercial book stores in
the city, and have been saved the
walk down town for their books.
Profits have hitherto been retained
to build up a capital reserve, essential for the conduct of any business.

at Studley and for Shirreff| Englishman who had a flair for

Among the periodicals select-|¢timinology. This role is admirably
common room are: |andled by Norman Squires.

The very practical wife of this
English author causes several amusing scenes.

The village constable, a hobo, a
hard detective from New York causes
much consternation and laughter.

“The sound effects so carefully
used in last year’s production The
“Ghost Train” will be used for this
show, The stage ?—? playing with
their tin cans and other gadgets give
surprising realistic effects.

Joe Connelly’s presence as director
gives a show a great start on the
road to success. Ably assisted by
Herman Halperin this production
should please all.

There will be dancing till midnight
after the performance.

The following cast is given in order of appearance:

Morgan—Herman Halperin
Jock—Sandy McPherson
Emily—Edith Cox
Thomas—“Doc” Roy
Duncan—Norman Squires
Mrs. Duncan—“Jinnie” Piers
Ezra—Jack Arnell
Isobel—Marg. Drummie
Ed.—“Big Bill” Stewart
Grogan—Pat McDonald
Evans—Phil Stein
The show will be repeated on the
19th for the public.

Dal to Debate
Mt. Allison

President Manning announces that
trials for the next inter-collegiate
debate which will be held against Mt.
Allison, will take place this Monday
night at 7.30 in the Monroe room.
At this time the topic has not as yet
been announced. However, due notice
of the same will be given through
the medium of the bulletin boards.

Mr. Manning is to be congratulated upon making arrangements for
a debate to be held between the Dalhousie Law School and that of New
Brunswick. This is the first of a
series of debates of this kind, and
everything points to a great success.
One of the most beneficial: results
will be to create a feeling of companionship between the two Law
Schools. Trials will be held in the
near future and three men will be
picked by the faculty to represent
Dalhousie.

 

All profits from the textbook business are held and invested by the
committee as a trust for the students of the University. The textbook business is now on a sound
financial basis. The committee feel
therefore that some of the profits
may now be safely used for purposes other than reserves. The
committee hope that the present ap
(Continued on Page Four)

 

 
  
   
  

 

a ee
a

 

 

MERLE PURTILL

_ arranged by the N.F.C.US.?

Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. S.

‘ . —. «EDITORIAL STAFF
N. GREEN rive aaa se
B. 4148 es
LEN KITZ EDITH BLAIR BILL SUTHERLAND
Society. Editor Literary Editor Sports Editor

ELISABETH BALLEM

, Staff Artist L. 3341
dee C. F. BENTLEY al
usiness Manager
on H. SUTHERLAND DOUGLAS CREASE
;  B, 5487 B. 5737

B, 548
nn eee

THE N. F. C. U. S. .
recent N.F.C.U.S. Conference at Queen’s University

| prompts one to ask “What is the N. F. C. U. 8.?” and

: it done for the Students of Canada?” _
whe Naticnal Federation of Canadian University Students, or as it is more commonly called, the N.F.C.US., is
simply a federal organization of the students in Canadian
Universities. Its members are the students themselv es,
rather than the student governing organizations In each
college. The Federation does not concern itself with the
internal management of student affairs in the separate
colleges. except in so far as it offers facilities for the interchange of information on problems of student life and
government. It exists for the purpose of maintaining and
promoting on a national scale such services as the separate
university organizations could operating singly would find
it difficult or impossible to supply. Beyond this the Federation has an international outlook in that it contacts and
seeks to cooperate with similiar organizations In other
countries, such as the International Students Service, the
Council Internationale Etudients, the National Students
Federation of America. The Federation has operated with
noteable success and no win its tenth year of operation it
may be said to occupy a truly important place in Canadian
student life. ; . .

The unfortunate position of the N.F.C.U.S. is that its
accomplishments are generally known only to those who
come in direct contact with it. How many students know
that the N.F.C.U.S. is the organization in cooperation with
the Canadian Railways that secured the special Christmas
train rates That the eighty odd Exchange scholarships
have been arranged by the N.F.C.U:S. in cooperation with
the Canadian Universities? That a discount of 331/3%
on all athletic equipment has been arranged with one of the
leading sporting goods companies in Canada? That special
trade discounts have been arranged regarding royalties
which means a great saving to university dramatic societies? That the only Imperial students conference was
That almost all international
and national students debating tours have been under the
sponsorship of the N.F.C.U.S.? These and other activities
of interest and saving to the students in Canadian universities have been done by the Federation, but in so doing it
received little or no publicity.

The more valuable work of the Federation has been in
five fields—the Exchange of Undergraduates Scheme, Debating, an Information Bureau, Athletics and Student
Travel. Plans are under way to have a British Isles Debating team tour Canada in 1936; to have a Canadian men’s
team tour the British Isles at the same time, a Maritime
Women’s Team tour the New England States, and a number
of other tours wihch will unquestionably be of value in sustaining interest in an important university activity.
Further advantage is to be taken of the position of Mr.
J. R. Johnson, Overseas Travel Secretary in London, England, to improve any plans for individual students or groups
of students touring on the Continent.

Such is the work of the National Federation of Canadian University Students. It is not a mere dream but a
very practical and useful organization that Canadian students should wholeheartedly support.

A PROPOSAL

IN London these days frantic efforts are being made to
save the Naval Conference, wrecked by Japanese with- |

drawal when their demands for equality were refused,
politely but firmly, by American and British delegates.
Now slim hopes are centered around the idea that by
bringing in Germany and Russia some sort of naval agreement can be reached. But the sceptics are many and
opinion is freely expressed that the naval race is on, the
Washington agreement dying a natural death this year.

Naval races, whether run or lost, always result in
higher taxes and consequent lower standards of living. It
is interesting, therefore, to note the proposal made by a
noted Labor lord in an open letter to English newspapers.
In brief, he suggests that taxpayers in England and the
United States should strike—refuse to pay taxes that will
be wasted on non-productive ships. He adds further that
such a strike would force the governments of both countries to restrict their building programs and enter mutual
assistance pacts for their necessary protection. Thus, for
instance, Great Britain would promise to guard British and
American shipping in the Atlantic, while America’s ships
would’ similarly police the Pacific.

Such an agreement would undoubtedly be hailed with
satisfaction in Canada, which has always acted as a buffer
between the two great English-speaking countries. So, too,
it would be hailed by Dalhousie students, for, besides the
future benefits of increased good feeling brought about by
an agreement of this sort, it would result in stabler business
conditions in both countries—a lessening of taxation would
mean more jobs. And Dalhousie students want jobs when
they graduate ; they have had enough of enforced idleness
during their vacations. The Gazette endorses this naval
proposal from England.

CONGRATULATIONS

THE Gazette takes this opportunity of congratulating the
Dean of the Dalhousie Law School, Vincent C. McDonald,
K.C., on his recent appointment.

 

eS

BEN DuBILIER

:
SSS essen

ore

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

All life is a mystery. Some there
be who would seek to resolve the
mystery and from this life take all
its veil of uncertainty and vagueness. Such persons would enquire as
to the properties of sleep, would
weigh and measure them, place them
in the test-tube of pseudo-science,
and proudly announce their matterof-fact result. Sleep is one of the
greatest of mysteries, and one of the
greatest of comforts.

Sleep as a whole may, like ancient
Gaul, be divided into three parts:
going to sleep, sleeping, and awakening from sleep. No one has derived
the utmost from this life who has
not gone to bed merely for the purpose of resting in a half-conscious
manner. At such a time the finite
of one’s surroundings gradually
fades away into the infinitude of the
ideal. What was formerly all too
present as the hurly-burly of the day
the tasks begun, the worries for the
morrow, what has been done imperfectly and what could not be done,
all these things sing into insignificance, and one realizes that perspective fashions all things. Gradually,
as consciouness slowly slips away,
the |

“cares that infest the day
Shall fold their tents like the Arabs,
And as silently steal away.”
There is a refreshing sense of losing
one’s self on the bosom of the infi
We Will Not Fight

The present

 

international situa
"|tion does not appear to forecast any

immediate application of military
sanctions against Italy; it seems unlikely that there will be any immediate urgent call for the Dalhousie C. O. T. C. to go and fight
for Haile Selassie. For that very
reason now is the time, when less
infiuenced by emotional poppycock
as many of us were in the fall during our peace ballot, for us logically to consider what should be our
attitude in any similar crisis in the
future.

The first notion to get out of our
heads is that there is any obligation, legal or moral, for Canada to
take part in military sanctions elsewhere than possibly on this continent. All the troubles of Europe are
not worth the life of a single C. O.
T. C. member, however useless a
speciman of humanity he may be.
We are, it is true, under at least a
moral obligation to apply economic
sanctions. But we do not have to
support military sanctions; such an
idea is completely contrary to the
underlying facts and principles of
modern international relations. The
true interpretation of the League’s
functions in this respect is that of

 

regional agreements for military
sanctions; that, for instance, the
Eurspean members are the only

'ones who can or should apply them
| -gainst an European aggressor.
Modern naval conditions render it
practically impossible for Great

     

THINK

SOMETHING TO

riday, February 7, 1936

 

ABOUT

The New York Court of Appeals,, tween Russia and Great Britain, had
one of the most respected of the| scorned to learn the aristocratic but
American tribunals, has denied the} useful act of diplomacy.
right of newspaper reporters to keep
from the court the secret sources of
information they may possess as to

any matter under enquiry. Information so received by a reporter was
held not entitled to the privilege extended to communications between
lawyer and client, priest and penitent.

The question has often arisen in
the United States and is bound to
arise more frequently in the future.
So far all the decisions have been
against such immunity and the reporters have received jail terms for
contempt of court, none as yet having divulged from whom their knowledge was obtained. If.they did, future information would be deniec
them, their value
be lost and therefore their jobs.

It would seem more reasonable,

| privilege and let the law derive what
vicarious knowledge it can from the
reporters’ articles.

Litvinoff’s chat with King Edward
had several unfortunate consequences. To friends, from whom the
story later spread, the Russian
foreign minister disclosed what had
‘taken place between himself and the

 

saving?
devel ligi f it ?
evelop a new religion of its own?

as reporters would P 8

x

King Gordon, speaking at Truro
on the subject “Christianity in This

| Changing World,” stated that society

today is such that one cannot live
a Christian life. He urged the
Church to hasten to make society an
environment where Christianity could
exist.

This statement is interesting since
it assumes that it is economic causes
which give birth to a religion, mold
it, and later, perhaps, kill it. If
Christianity is merely a creature of
economics, subservient to the vagaries of social change and not an eternal and spiritual truth, is it worth
Why not let new economy

ee

For some time Dixie Pilluet and

|then, for the courts to grant this her cringing minicns, d f,ing all

manner of interruption, have ensconced th>mselves in the third year
law rcom. There, with little resp-ct
‘for the venerable judges and stat-smen who adorn the walls, the strange
Yagaries of the biological urge and
kindred matters are discusscd with
lecherous glee.

- That sanctum sranctorum, once
gacred to the affairs of the remain
nite, of being wafted through oe Britain to coerce Japan; similarly,|new ruler. This breach of the hither-| der-man and the fraudulent trustee,
to the regions of the fairies which| Canada neither has the power nor|to invoicable secrecy surrounding tail male and tail female, is now prois under any obligation to coerce| Royal consultations was in itself faned by those who deal not in

childhood storybooks portrayed, a
sense of being one with all time and
all space, a merging of the finite in
infinity. And then comes sleep.

The mechanics of sleep are unimportant. How it works is beside the
point. You and I, says the philosopher in homely speech, are interested in the effect. The torn and
battered body lays it down upon the
softest couch or hardest bed and
finds its rest. The morning comes
with renewed energy and clearness of
thought, the product of that innocent

sleep which in the quiet of the night, | monwealth.

“knits up the ravell’d sleave of
care” until the strands which a short
while before were inextricably tangled, in confusion all distraught, now
become an orderly skein prepare to
undertake the tasks of day. I pity
him who cannot sleep. How can he
tell when a new day has begun?
Surely there is naught within him to
distinguish this from that in point
of time, for all is one continuation
of weariness unending. Man learns
much from his own experience. To
remain awake and out of bed for an
entire night most firmly convinces of
sleep’s beneficience and _ healing
powers; and also it teachers of how
inestimable an aid is that sleep which
gives rebirth once every twenty-four
hours. Sleep is an important factor
in retaining in some degree the
sanity of mankind; without it all
of values must soon be diminished
even to the vanishing point. Sleep
refreshes body and mind, and starts
the creature on the road again with
all sails set upon a new and untried
course full of enthusiasm and hope.

Many there are who do not appreciate awakening from sleep. In
this classification may be placed
those who with a growl arise suddenly knowing that they have allowed themselves the utmost limit of
time by the alarm and must now
hasten to the daily task. On the
other hand are those laggards and
lie-abeds who seem unable to arise
within any appreciable time; for
them sleep has been of no visible use
because they are no better than when
they first lay down. Certain persons
derive the utmost from awakening.
Such ones lie half-awake for a few
moments until gradually returning
consciousness arrives. During that
time the true appreciator of sleep
grasps and grapples with the problems of the coming day while he yet
retains some of that blissful perspective with which he was gently wafted
away at bedtime. In such a light he
views the future and makes his
plans in terms not of the hour but
of all time; nothing rash nor temporizing has place in his vision of
what the day entails, and in those
few moments of awakening-time he
girds himself for the day that is
soon to be. He had made use of the
freshness and vigour which returning day has brought through the
medium of sleep and may proceed
with equanimity to the horrors of

Italy at the present time. There is
no necessity for Canada to be the
goat at the altar of international
peace in the present crisis.

Having rather summarily disposed of the League question let us
consider what other factors should
determine the attitude that Canadians should take towards international affairs. The two most important are that we:have the United
States as a neighbor and that we
/are a member of the British ComThe United States
would not lightly see any other
country invade Canada; the United
States would protect us and if it
ecouldn’t no other country could.
Furthermore, culturally and _ economically, we are more closely connected with the United States than
with any other country. For these
reasons we should concentrate on
getting more trade with the United
States than abroad, in order that
our export trade would be less damaged in time of a general war, and
we should co-operate with the
American general staff in respect of
common defense measures.

We have close sentimental ties
binding us to Great Britain—but
that is no reason why we should
fight the battles of British capitalists and imperialists in all parts of
the world. Great Britain could not
materially help us if invaded by,
shall we say, Japan.

Why should we fight her battles?
Such a policy may seem selfish; but
in the face of the cold facts of international relations all countries
are selfish. If we, overcome by emotional and sentimental ballyhoo, suddenly become beautifully altruistic,
we might as well all sit down and
commit suicide here and now—it
would be much simpler and achieve
the same result ultimately. If to
remain neutral when Britain is at

Continued on Page Three)

his morning paper’s headlines as well
as to the more mundane requirements of his daily job. Awakening
from sleep has for him completed
the three-fold benefit to be derived
from sleep.

Sleep is a mystery. How it works
and why can be explained but not accounted for. The rich man on his
divan, the poor man on his cot, each
may avail himself of its benefits and
luxuries. The opportunity is open
to all, but few there be who find it.
This one has one reason, that other
has another, and each in turn misses
out some part of the marvellous process of body, soul and mind rebuilding, of blending the finite with the
infinite and bringing it into daily life
of using to the utmost advantage one
of the greatest gifts bestowed on
mankind, which is sleep. They “do
murder sleep”. Fortunate are they
who make the most of their opportunity and who enjoy to the full the
indescribable benefits of sleep.

 

deeply resented in England.

More deeply resented was Litvinoff’s statement that the King was
the type of ordinary mediocre Eng
his daily

 

tions about the Russian revolution a
child could have answered.

Apart from the observations that |

the charge of reading but one newspaper may well be considered a com
pliment, and that the King may have
suited his questions to M. Litvinoff’s

intelligence, it is regrettable that the
foreign minister, in view of the
necessity for friendlier relations be
things of the spirit but of the ficsh.

Nevertheless the law boys were
surprised and no little pained when
D xie, with words ill-befitting one of
the gentler sex, ejected therefrom
with a stringth we admire but an
aim we deplore s_veral of the lawyers’ brief-cases.

Particularly distressing to the lawlyers was the lusty kick bestowed
upon one of these symbols of the
law. Yet they have no need to
mourn; rather should they rejoice,
for surely these strange actions can
only find explanation in the Oedipus
complex.

 

WHEN YOUR
THE CLUB

lishman who read only
newspaper, and had asked him ques
A © SS

 

NOTICE FROM
ISN'T SO GOOD

THE BEST

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

 

 
     
   
 
   

é

»

the Defendant. The Defendant coun;- tion of affections of one, Grace Most.
Mr. Uriah Tite, of the firm of U.
R. Tite and I. C. Duble, was counsel
for the Plaintiff, while Mr. John
- (Jack) Pott, famous slot machine

fi
i
ae

ps i L
ms
}

+

4

oe

eee, “ee
:
a J
s - git SO
, e Z
i i
rae y
ey —. ~
Zz
j
f 2
ee.
, aay c
5 F
i
¥

=

IN THE SUPREME MUTE COURT
-——s«s3OF': DALHOUSIE

nes (Jim Nastix (Plaintiff)
VS.
jdwin (Eddie) Match (Defendant)

“The Plaintiff sued the Defendant

<

for injuries sustained by the Plaitniff

due to a brutal assault on him by

      
 

ed for damages for aliena
expert, appeared for the Defendant.

The case was tried before Mr. Justice Clarrison-Heaveland with a
special jury, and is reported in 1936
Packing Cases.

It appears that Match was “practically engaged” to Miss Grace Most,
and was going away for a short time

a - when the Plaintiff, Nastix, approach
 

ed him and asked for a loan of two

dollars saying that he would “pay it
back tomorrow.” The Defendant,
being in unusual good humour gave
him the two dollars and said, “no
hurry, I am going away for a short

time so I'll give you a week of

grace.” The Plaintiff thanked him
profusely, understanding him to
mean that he could have Miss Most’s
company for a full week unmolested,
since who else could he mean by
“Grace.” The Plaintiff took advantage, of what he supposed to be the
Defendant’s generosity, and was on
continual parlour duty at the Most
domicile.

The Defendant heard rumors of
the Plaintiff’s attentions to Miss
Most, but nevertheless he called her
up and suggested that she go for a
short walk with him to Herring
Cove. She said she was sorry but
she was too lame to walk as she had
been out with “Jim,” who apparent
ly had been rough with her causing

her to be lame and bruised. (When
Miss Most came to the stand she
denied this and claimed that what
she said was that she was sore all
over and black and blue as she had
been out to “gym”) Whereupon the

Defendant, Match, infuriated, pro
ceeded to the Plaintifi’s boarding

* house and made the assault on the

- Plaintiff complained of in this case.

The Defendant claims that all that

Sn etre oe an
a 7 a
vi $y 2

vy

a inal ae a
q | = ri
fd 7
x oh y > e i
r ,
¢

 

he did was to gently push him down
down the steps and gently step on

his face.

When the Plaintiff was on the witness stand Mr. Pott questioned him

‘as to his knowledge of commercial

terms. Apparently Mr. Nastix understood a “promisory note” to be
one of those love letters used as exhibit “A” in a breach of promise
suit, while a “bill of sale” was a
statement of the costs rigging a sailing yacht. When asked what he understood by the term “pounds sterling” he said that it referred to the
set of scales in the Physical Director’s Office.

In respect to the counterclaim,
Miss Most was called to the stand.
She said she was called Grace because she religiously never missed a
meal. She apparently no longer had
any affections for Eddie Match (who
flares right up if struck anywhere).
She said that one time he got mad
at her for laughing at his moustache
while she could not help from laughing because it tickled her. He was
nothing but a deceitful brute. He
told her before Christmas he was
giving her something for her neck
and she was all excited wondering
whether it would be a fox fur or a
pearl necklace. And what do you
‘suppose it was? A cake of soap!
She didn’t like the insinuation either
as it was Ivory (99 44/100 percent
pure). However, she got even with
him as she told him she was giving
him a book he would find useful in

_his C. O. T. C. course on Infantry

Training. The book she gave him
was called “The Care and Feeding
of Children.”

She claimed she wouldn’t dare go

out with the Defendant again as she

overheard him tell her brother about
some girl he’d been out with whom

ae he’d taken her scarf off and when

“ev

eee
na
ae

she objected he had choked her to
death, but that she was getting along

alright now in Heaven. The Defen
dant, however, claimed that he was
telling about his car and how it made
a lot of noise when he took the muf
RE MANGLED CASES

was a good car and got along alright on high.

It is a well-known rule that in
the Dalhousie “Mute” Court the parties are always found guilty of
whatever they are charged with, so
the jury awarded the Plaintiff a
thousand dollars for assault and ordered that he pay the Defendant a
thousand dollars for alienation of affections, thus making them all
square, except for paying their lawyers who both raised their fees for
winning the case.

A Dictator At Dal?

 

A dictator at Dalhousie? Obviously not, nor shall ever be, you
will say. If you do, then you have
not had much to do with the Studley Library of late. At the beginning of the year, things showed
great promise. Our friend at the
circulation desk smiled benignly, (a
cataclysmic condition) enervated by
a trip to the Old Country, where
the main business seems to have
consisted in the buying of Scottish
plaids. Sometime later, free ink
made its appearance, and things
looked favorable for a_ pleasant
term.

However, the person who first
said that a good beginning made a
bad ending, must have had just
such a situation in his mind, for
now the situation has gone from
bad to worse, until it would seem
that a dictatorship is being set up
‘before our eyes.

We always thought that, if not
made to be broken, the rules which
from the constitution of tthe
library ought at least to be flexible.
Not so, says our would-be dictator.
Rules are rules, and either you pay
me ten doilars for having three or
four books out during the week
before exams, or we shall have to
institute another “thirty days’
purge,” and that wiil be all the
worse for you.

Yet, on the other hand, some fortunate individuals seem to be able
to escape with books that are in almost constant demand, which they
keep for indefinite periods and
which nobody else can ever lay
hands on. We are in the unfortunate position of being in need of a
book which is apparently out under
such conditions at the present time.

Again, under certain conditions,
when “no books may go out of the
Library”, one may plead for a certain text needed at that particular
time for some urgent purpose. The
rule and the dictator stand rigid,
however. If no book may go out,
then no book goes out, no matter
how short be the time over which
the book is needed, no matter how
urgent be the necessity for taking
it out, no metter, even, who the
person making the request is,
whether he be student, professor, or
governor; our dictator stands firm.

The situation in Arts amounts to;
this, that our laboratory, our
atelier if you will, is almost completely closed to most of us. Is our
library something at which to stand
and gaze with awe, as many do at
our dictator, something which may
form a source of revenue to the
University, not because the university wishes it to be so, or impose
such measures, but because of the
Nazi-like regime which exists in the
taking out of books, or is it to be
something which the students may
use for their own intellectual purposes as students, without being re
garded as potential thieves.

It has been noted that in the past
two or three years more students
are making better use of the library
, than ever before. If it is the inten‘tion of ur library dictator to discourage this student attitude by
placing innumerable restrictions on
their library activities, then we
hazard the prophesy that the plan
will surely succeed. But have not
the students anything to say about
this? Are we, at Studley to submit to library deprivations because
of the actions of one person? Are
we to view our library as ostensibly
for our use, or must we stand off
ond gaze at the inner shrine, closed

The thundering noise of the boiler factory is mild compared with
the continual thumping, beating
whistling, shouting, crooniny, catch
murmurings of the drafting room.
Yet in the midst of all this roughhouse men are trying to work, trying to apply their minds to problems
whose solution requires considerable
concentration, problems which might
be best worked in the deathless
silence of the cloiser.

Engineers rally to the cause! We
are working under a handicap, an
easily avoided handicap brought
about by our own stupidity. Let us
launch a campaign of silence.
“Down with the noise, (not on Dr.
Bronson’s head) let silence reign

supreme!”

A glimpse of the drafting room
any afternoon will show due cause
for the complaint. Over in one corner a few of the boys are trying
out the new holds Victor showed
them at wrestling the other night.
A little to one side we find two
pugilists engaged in battle. In the
centre of the room a skiing enthuasist is demonstrating the intriacies
of the telemark and christie, while
in the freshman room an exhibition
of handstands, single arm levers,
and general high and parallel bar
gymnastics is going on. Above all
this is heard the rendition, “a la,
Crosby” of the popular songs and
our old reliable over on one side
hymns of the day. Then there is
whistling out the strains of “An-!
chors Aweigh.” This guy, by. the!
way has been blasting at this same
strain since the first of October and
it has been secretly revealed that a
pot is now under way to have an
anckicr unexpectely drop on this
bird’s cranium from a high altitude.

But behold one applying himself
diiigently to his work. It is “Steve.”
But see how hard he finds it to concentrate. Poor chap, in despair he |
is twisting his very hair into knots.

Such then are the deplorable conditions under which we labor. Certainly it is plain that the speed and
calibre of our work is suffering from
these imbecilie antics. Let each
man do his part by attending strictly to his own work, when in doubt
quietly asking aid. Let the singing,
whistling, bellicose actions, throwing
about of erasers, flanged “T’s”,
half dollars, stools, students, etce.,
come to an end. Time is getting on
and the work is piling up; much
valuable time is lost in fooling. So
“Down with the noise; let silence
reign supreme.”

 

Prof. Theakston is “Purdy” well
baffled by the way in which one of
the fellows’ drawing 2 plates suddenly turn up from nowhere. It
seems the chap in question scarcely |
makes an appearance in the drafting |
room but by some ingenuity man- |
ages to slip his drawings under the|
dcor of the Prof.’s office just on the
zero hour without being seen by
anyone. These actions have led
Prof. Theakston to dub this fellow
the “Ghost of the drafting room.”
It just ghost to show how damn
elusive a fellow can really _ be.
(Censors not: quit your “Carson’’).

A reward by the way of three
guaranteed Keuffel and Esser, “non
thumb-callous” thumb tacks is offered to any person giving information leading to the whereabouts of
the “ghost.” The reason kas been
advanced that his staying away is
due to the fact that the poor fe:low
could no longer stand the type of
jokes commonly heard in the drafting room.

 

“Pete” keeps singing “In my
Solitude.” Francis Bacon says,
“whosoever is delighted in solitude |
is either a wild beast or a god.”
Come forward and be _ identified
ew ERs

 

How odd it seems when we speak
with ‘our friends, the medical students that they continually yelp like
a hurt dog (or a stabbed pig) about
the pressure of their studies. All
one hears is the story of endless
practicals, theoriticals and  orals.
Yet when the discussion of shows,
dances and parties arises he is the
man who has seen every show in
town, has never missed a Saturday
night at the Green and was halftight three nights last week, or per
i _ fler off and when he choked it it gave | to us, lest, by our presence we de-|haps he will tell of how he lost

a little sputter and died, but that she| fite the stern guardian of the Gods.’ twenty bucks the other night in a

abe ema et ee i, Fe ome

4

GAZETTE

To the Co-eds

The first profits from Leap Year

—Mil brought home a diamond.

definition of marriage it:
chases a woman until she catches
him.

We wonder if Sigma Chi boys
usually find woman’s shoes under
their beds. Does it happen very
often, Bill?

And then there is the Phi Kapp
who has adopted the baby doll!!

Someone should remind Ede Cox
that a package of gum a day makes
a big hole in the budget.

Will Merle Purtill ever learn?

COUNCIL HOLDS—

(Continued from Page One)

Kollandar, Barton and Hattie failed
to put in an appearance at all.

The different societies on the
Campus have reason to feel proud of
the interest their representatives are
showing in student affairs. If there
is such a thing as recall on this

 

 

 

Speaking of Leap Year, an apt
A man

 

ee
EE EE
Ce ee

TAKE YOUR

EKDICINE

T. Y. M. ANSWERS CHALLENGE

This week T. Y. M. foregoes his
charted right as a scandal-monger in
order to reply to a most bitter editorial in the last issue of the Gazette.
In so doing he feels that he speaks
for the whole Medical Student Body.
T. Y. M. hopes that the freedom of
the press be upheld, and trust that
our kindly editors find it fitting to
publish his few remarks.

“The truth hurts”, you may reply
—but not so with the medical student. We are even grateful for constructive criticism but do feel deeply
peeved when we are savagely misrepresented. Small wonder then that
| your Columnist feels duty bound to
reply, at some length to the challenges cast at his and his fellow
students’ capabilities.

True it is that we are ever busily
engaged in the pursuits of a medical
training but most of us at least have
engaged in
activity at our University. Nor have

some extra-curricular |

Campus, why is it not put into effect, | medical students, in comparison with
or the Council ask these societies! others, fallen down in helping to

which are without representation in| publish the Gazette. If this were not

as-catch-can wrestling and rancous

a practical sense to elect new
representatives?
* ok BS
Central Committee
Hereafter, all societies are re
quested to get in touch with George
Murphy before arranging any meeting. He will be acquainted with all
major activities on the Campus, and
all bodies are asked to inquire of
him as to future meetings so that
as many conflicts as possible may be
eliminated.

Dalhousie will not be represented
at the Model League of Nations this
year. No one seemed to know just
how much money was remaining in
the sock, and despite Mr. Manning’s
compromise that six be sent instead
of the usual ten, the budget was
thrown out. Thus there passes into
the discard another part of student
activity, a sacrifice on the altar of
major sport. The vote from the floor
was divided, two to two, and the
president cast the deciding vote—the
first time this year that he was called upon to vote.

 

WE WILL NOT—

(Continued from Page Two)

war means a break with the Empire, well then, however regretfully,
that is what we must do. The concession of a small Canadian expeditionary force in a small war would
be a ruinous precedent later on. We
must let Britain know that we intend to be neutral; similarly, we
must place lesser emphasis in the
future on Empire trade agreements
and co-operation with the Imperial
Defence Council. Any such concession would be strong propaganda
for the Imperialists in time of crisis.
All that I have said points strongly to neutrality, absolute and uncompromised, as Canada’s only hope.
An even stronger argument is that,
whether we like it or not (and I
submit that we should like it), neutrality ‘is our only practicable policy,
quite apart from theoretical considerations. In Canada there is a
that is no reason why we should
ern Canada that would rather hreak
up the Dominion than submit to
conscription. Whether the loyal
members in Halifax of the I. O. D.
E. and the Overseas League like it
or not, they should wake up to the
fact that there is a majority of Canadians, or at least a very powerful
minority, who will not fight, come
what may. Many Canadians minimize the importance of the discussion of such subjects as the above
—let us wait, they say. But that is
ro intelligent way to meet a problem; it is for all thinking Canadians,
particularly students who are supposed to be of at least average intelligence, to think the question
through, and to come forward and
declare that “We will not fight.”

erap or poker game which lasted
until six in the morning. It is then
no wonder they yell. But the hard
part is that they are crying to
others who have as much and often
more work than they themselves.
“TYM” marches on, but what a
great din he makes in passing.

 

“Heaven never helps the man
who wiil not act.”—Sophocles.

 

so, why then such a rumpus, by the
rest of the student body, about the
space applied to Medical News.
No, Mr. Editor, medicine is not
child’s play. It is infinitely more
difficult than is commonly suspected.
Compare our thirty hours of school
work per week with the lawyer’s
fourteen hours or with the Arts
students’ eighteen hours. That I
think speaks for itself. Yet just recently we have embarked on a new

   

“The purest form
In which tobacco
can be smoked.”

Ne

CIGARETTES

venture—the publication of a Medica] | —————_—__

Journal. Does that warrant the remark that the student in medicine
has fallen into a rut? I think not.

You talk of debating! Well T. Y. M.!

stands ready to supply a medical debating team any time that WORTHY
opponents wish to clash with them!
What date did you say?

Your attendant to one of Dr. Atlee’s Clinics on Friday morning, I
think, would make you swallow your
words about the narrowness of our
education. The truth of the matter
is, that the Medical Society and its
members are the strongest and most
unified body on the Campus and its
enrolment reads like “WHO’S WHO”
of Dalhousie University.

It’s the old story again. So long
as an individual is merely one of a
crowd he is generally safe from the
tongue of slander. But let him once
attain to a commanding position
where he stands out conspicuously,
he at once becomes a target for all
kinds of misrepresentation. His motives are questioned, his methods decried, and all his words and actions
are mercilessly criticized,

I commend you Mr. Editor for the
frank expression of your thoughts.
More frankness between students,
and we’d all profit greatly. Then
why not have candidates use the
Gazette to disclose their policies to
the students before election?

 

It is not premature to mention the
coming Student Council elections.
Fellow Meds — do you realize that
your representatives comprise only
one-sixth of the governing body
while your numbers constitute onequarter of the student body.—Why
not do something about it and do it
promptly ?

* *

Furthering the students’ intellectual persuits, the Medical Faculty
has blessed the poor over-worked
meds with a series of lectures on
the relation of medicine to the third
molar “Alas and Alack!” Quoting
Dr. Woodbury “With the advent of
civilization and the elevation of the
cranium, there is a corresponding retrogretion of the mandible and subsequently the loss of the third molar.
The Doctor is duty bound to restore

said tooth to the mouth of civilization.”

The Hunt Was On:

In the V. G. Clinic room there was
a table, on the table was a chair,
and on the chair was little Helen—
gazing earnestly into the mouth of
Tony Donahue. That wasn’t a third
molar Helen. It was Tony’s appc2dix,

Rankine went off on a search c*
his own. He crept stealthily in‘<
the Dental Lab—here surely wou!
the lost third molar be found. Ove-.

 

 

ee

 

Education Notes

 

Personal—It is reported on usually
reliable authority that members of
the S. C. M. have decided that dancing is better than hockey.

 

(Due to the illness of the author,
this noble column has been condensed to one sole item this week.)

crashed head-on into the* empty
lockers, rebounded into a shelf of
false teeth and amidst a din that
would awaken even a Freshman, fled
to his above among the other stiffs
on the third floor.

The fun started when Dr. McClure
and Ian MacDonald decided to do a
little research on some _ boarding
house ladies cat. At the crucial moment in the experiment, the cat died.
How futile the ensuing argument had
they known that the cat had previously swallowed Erwin’s false third
molar.

T. Y. M. (ThirdYupper Molar) was
asked, “What is it that H. Knodell’s
got that Perea hasn’t got and keeps
Louie away from the Nurses Residence?” The answer my dear friend
will be found behind the second upper molar.

The fourth year meds decided to
do a bit of searching on their own
hook and provided for said hook by
placing the hats of the underclassmen in a most unbecoming place. A
few surviving fourth year meds may
be seen today still unravelling the
problem but the poor misguided lads
are woorking on scarves and really
trying to get their teeth into the
situation.

In the strict privacy of the darkened room at the Public Health Clinic
a scientific anatomist has been directing a most intensive search. He
will not fail, he must not fail, to
discover that prodigal tooth well concealed in the swarthy (?) chests of
the first and second year meds.

Dr. Woodbury suggested that
civilization must strengthen its teeth
by thorough exercises. Therefore
the subsequent report that more and
more meds are taking up the picollo
(new headquarters—4 Summer St.)
and that Stentaford and MacLellan
sacrificed a pretty small-pox vaccination to secure sterile needles to pick
teeth.

The Fifth Year, ever searching,
finally picked up Stentaford for a
blood transfusion, but our informed
clinician had been Chicken up on
him. “Peaca be with yeu” qucth he.

ee wAm. ot ee ey fe ers in pee A |
4 chaps 4.0 SAG 28 Biv Lt0 COS
Oe ee ep Te eee = ol LC aa ’
Gian pucsss “Pen Voeliceuxs.
A ee an 4
NUsadt diac 15 Ged
x ' Si ar SIS ne
Wan'ed—ciz: pallbearers from the

looking a footpump in his path, he fog club.

 
  
   
    
 
  
 
   

     
 

ee

aie
é 7 val


=
Poles

<, e
re
.
oR

i
~ ble

Drop First Game >

 

¥

f

iver: dropped the opening game of the City League

 

Sieh, 5 62 adunt. bit they carried off all the

free-for-all slugfest which came in the last period.

   
 
 

   
  

    
  

  
 
   
   

A certain Sunoco forward was sporting a pair of shiners as a
result of a few very nice rights by Johnny Mullane. —
‘The game started very fast with the Tigers showing their

on, while Sunocos flashed a perfectly timed
pass ack which time after time carried them right in on
| : vellan. The collegians had almost as many scoring

a chaneuaran did Sunocos, but very erratic shooting kept them

Sp RE
ee 3 = 4 pia

- oe

ri

   
 

Se ites

 

¥ Ra?
ea,
os

from adding to their total.
sane: Shortly after the game opened

  
  
  

ed

+o
fj

 
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
    
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
      
    
  
   
    
    
   
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  


.

ee 7
-_
on oe

ra
- =

a

  

= "¥
re =
iim: es
has
>

“ar

oy
od La

=e
2

the gasmen went two up on goals

by Hanrahan, the first on a pass

from Brundage and the second un
assisted. While Sunocos were a

| = - man short, Dal kept them bottled
sane - up in their own blueline for minutes

‘at a time and did everything but

-seore. Finally Eddie Cohn paved

the way for Dal’s first counter giving Pooh DeWolfe a perfect pass inside the defense and DeWolfe made
it good.

In the second period Reg. Clancy
scored unassisted and Beaton tallied on a pass from Beazley before

_Jim Graham, who looked about the

best of the Tigers, climaxed a nice

rush by picking the corner of the
_ net from an almost impossible angle.

Goals by Reg. Clancy and Ace
Bailey in the third period ended the
scoring for the night. Jack Buckley returned to the Dal line-up and
turned in an excellent game.

The game was attended by the

_ Dal Band which “treated” the large
 erowd of about 800 to several num_ bers. The two squads meet again

on Wednesday, February 12th, when
the fans will likely be treated to

another knock down and drag out

affair.

 

Only one game was played in the
Interfaculty Softball League last
_ week when on Wednesday, January
29th, Law snowed Pine Hill under to

<n
4 Rac ee

—
=
sa

_ Sween who did the hurling for the
_ Theologs in the absence of Andy
MacKenzie. The lawyers seemed to

5 cp f.
: pies
Pet

the tune of 28-4. Layton Ferguson,
who was on the mound for Law, with

 

strike-outs outpitched Mac
have found their batting eyes after
their shutout defeat by Medicine and
they pounded the offerings of MacSween through a disorganized Pine
Hill nine to all parts of the gym
- nasium with every member of the

team scoring at least once.

Ferguson, on the other hand,
pitched steady ball and received good
support from his team-mates except
for one ragged inning when the
losers pushed their four runs across
the plate.

The feature of the game was a
triple play completed by Pine Hill.
The lineups were:

Theologs and Meds
Win Softball Tilts

Interfaculty softball got underway on Wednesday, January 22nd,
when Pine Hill and Medicine emerged victorious over Arts and Science
and Law respectively. The first
and best game of the evening was
that between Law and Medicine in
which the doctors blanked the lawyers by a 5-0 score. Harry Gaum,
who led Arts and Science to a league title last year, was on the
mound for Medicine, tossing them
up in the form that has stamped
him as the league’s outstanding
hurler for the past two years, and
setting the lawyers dewn with five
hits for a total of no runs. Layton
Ferguson undertook pitching duties
for Law anu gave a good exhibition
except for a short time in the fourth
inning when he weakened momentarily and this together with some
ragged support from his teammates
allowed the winners to push across
four of their five runs and so put
the game on ice. As a consequence
of this win the Meds are highly favoured to capture premier honors in
softball this year with most opposition coming from Law and Dentistry.

The line-ups were:

Medicine:—McLennan, 2nd; Seigel
ce; S. Miller, 3rd; Epstein, 1st; Gaum,
p; Horowitz, ss; J. Miller, r. f; Garten, c. f; Rubinger, 1. f.

Law :—Connor, ec. f; Cook, c; Bentley, ss; Manning, 3rd; Ferguson, p;
Godwin, Ist b; Rogers, |. f.; Meagher,
r. f.; Hinchey, 2nd b.

In the second game Arts and
Science, last year’s champions, were

defeated by their old rivals Pine|
‘Hill, last year’s runners-up, by a

9-4 score. Both teams have been
considerably weakened by the loss
of their outstanding players mainly
through graduation and neither is
considered a serious threat to win
the league which they dominated
for the past two years. Arts and
Science were the more seriously
weakened of the two by the loss of
their battery Herry Gaum, now in
first year Medicine, and Bruce Fergusson, now a Rhodes Scholar at
Oxford, whereas N. McLeod and
Andy McKenzie plug up this hole in
the defence of the Theologs very effectively.

The lineups were:

Arts and Science:—Cook, c; Stewart, p; Godwin, Ist b; Greenberg,
2nd b; Garten, 3rd b; Fiendell, ss.;
Barton, 1. f; Hiseler, r. f; Mackles,
i

Pine Hill:—McLeod, c; McKenzie,
p; McIntosh, 1st b; McLean, 2nd b;
Findlay, 3rd b; McDonald, s.s; MePherson, 1. f; Jarvie, r. f.

The third game on the evening’s
schedule, that between the Freshmen
and Kings, was cancelled owing to
the fact that neither could field a
team and instead a pickup game
was played.

Owing to the lack of a pre-Christmas schedule, which in former

‘years served as an organizing fac
tor and also provided practice for

|| the teams, the different faculties

BUCKINGHAM

 
 

20 fr 208-25 fr 257-50 for50¢

es es al
View. fs - |
eee ak ih
: a ve

| M «
bi  *

  

io

ARETTES#|

show a lack of organization and
consequently of effectiveness.

  

After a Show
Or At Any Time

  
 
  

A Hot or Cold Drink,
a Lunch or Ice Cream
in a bright and pleasant place.

 

|

 
 
  
  
  
    

  

    
 

| The Green Lantern

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Sports on Parade —

By Edgar Stewart

 

L4stT Tuesday the Dalhousie Tigers opened their campaign in

the Senior City Basketball League against the Y.M.C.A.
quintette at the Studley gymnasium. After their showing
against the Association five and their recent game with the Bar
Harbour squad, the Tigers are strong favourites to repeat their
victories of the past two years and again annex the provincial
title.

College spirit, that much-discussed topic of conversation,
seems to have hit anew low. It was very noticeable that at the
Bar Harbour game there was not even an attempt at a Dal yell
let alone any organized cheering. That this was not from want
of numbers is attested by the fact that there was present at
the game one of the two biggest crowds since Montreal played
here in the spring of 1934. The other was the Mt. Allison
game last year at which there was also an orchestra present to
provide music for dancing and INCIDENTALLY spectators for
the game, It seems that there is nothing like a dance to get
a crowd but that even a dance doesn’t provide the spectators
spirit, I mean College Spirit.

It is much to the credit of the few who attend the hockey
games that this is not so much the case with them and surely
they have no better reason for making a noise. If they can
cheer a team leading the Independent Commercial League, have
not basketball fans far better reason for yelling when their team
is provincial and ex-maritime title-holder?

There is far less interest, if that is possible, in the girls’
basketball team and this too for no good reason for they hold
the Maritime Intercollegiate Championship. Although the
graduation of Flo Kenniston is a serious loss to them, still with
the return of Isabel Fraser to the lineup and the competent
coaching of Bob Goudey, they should go places again this year.
The Tigers’ hockey team, so long despised by other teams
in the city, seems at last to have found itself. Having won the
regular schedule with one defeat and three draws, they drew the
bye position in the playoffs with Blue Sunocoes and Wanderers
playing a two game total goal series to determine who would
oppose them. ‘This was won by Sunocos by a four goal margin
and so they will meet the Tigers in a best three out of five game
Series with the Gold and Black highly favoured to win.

New styles in basketball uniforms were ushered in during
the Arts and Science-Dentistry game last Friday, when a prospective dentist appeared on the floor clad on in his underwear.

| SN a
Cubs Continue UNIVERSITY STORE—

Losing Streak (Continued from Page One)

The Dalhousie entry in the City
Intermediate League stretched their
losing streak to three in a row when
they went down to defeat last week
at the hands of St. Mary’s on Wednesday, at the Y. M. C. O., and Wanderers on Thursday at the Studley
gymnasium.

propriation for magazines and periodicals for student use will meet
with the approval of the student
body. In addition the committee
hopes to enlarge later the services
of the store.

The committee wishes to thank
the students for their continued patronage of the store. They hope the

students and faculty will consider
|the store as a community venture,
and they will welcome any suggestion for improvements in this service to the Dalhousie community.

The committee wishes to ac‘knowledge the splendid service
which they have had from the first
student manager, Mr. Evatt Bishop,
and from the present manager, Mr.
|Neil Higgins, both of whom have
‘contributed largely to the success
}of the store. The committee wishes
also to express its thanks to the

Playing more Systematic ball the | University for the use of space, and
Cubs made a desperate effort all|to Mr. R. W. Atwood for his sucthrough the second period to pat | eesueal co-operation at all times.

down the lead but the Windsor
Street quintette had a nine point ad- ep, i
Basketball
Schedule

se st <n

St. Mary’s College, newcomers
to the league and consequently not
considered a serious threat, sprang
a surprise when they defeated the
Cubs, last year’s title-holders, by
a 43-34 score. The Saints grabbed the lead from the start and |
continued to increase it throughout
the first. period, scoring basket
after basket against the disorganized Cubs until at half time they
led at 21-7.

 

 

DESPERATE EFFORT

 

 

 

vantage when the final whistle blew.

Marty Ney, scoring eight field goals

and five fouls for a total of 21 points

was the outstanding player on the

floor and time and again he com
bined with Farrell for smart plays

which resulted in baskets. “Rusty”

Baird, a newcomer to the Cubs, with | Thurs. Feb. 6—Dal. vs. Y.M.C.A.

16 points, was the pick of the losers,|Tues. Feb. 11—Acadia vs. Y.M.C.A.

Midway through the second period | Thurs. Feb. 13—Dal vs. Wanderers

Archie MacKenzie, Dalhousie guard, | Wed. Feb. 19—Wander. vs. Y.M.C.A.

was forced to leave the game with|Thurs. Feb. 20—Dal vs. Acadia

an injured hand. The line-up: Wed. Feb. 26—Y.M.C.A. vs. Dal
Thur. Feb. 27—Acadia vs. Wanderers
Wed. March 4—Y.M.C.A. vs. Acadia
Wed. March 4—Wanderers vs. Dal.

 

Dalhousie—Lyall, 6; Murphy, E.
Stewart, 7; L. Stewart, Baird, 16;
DuBilier, Kerman, 2; Saunderson, 3;
Dean, MacKenzie.

 

The following night the Cubs were
defeated by Wanderers in their first
home game by a single point. Dal,

than two minutes to take the lead
and the game, winning by a 20-19

a

}riday, February 7, 1936

Wins Over “Y’’ Squad © >

Dalhousie’s fighting Tigers, by defeating the highly-touted
Y.M.C.A. team 41-24 in a closely fought basketball game at the
Dalhousie gym Tuesday night, showed that they haven’t lost
the skill and pep which have carried them to Provincial championships in recent years. Whether or not it was the new yellow
uniforms which did the trick we don’t know—but whatever the
reason the Sterling-coached outfit convincingly squashed the
squad which defeated the Wanderers last week, and, if we have
student support behind it, everything points to another winning
team.

Doug Crease opened the scoring first half, fine playing by Ted Crease

sinking the pigskin in a sensational
shot. The fine play of the first few
minutes of the first half was not
sustained however. ‘ihe boys appeared a little shy and bashful and
the “Y” played a stalling game, thus

producing listless basketball in the

first half. With the “Y” leading 1610 with seven minutes to go in the

 

 

Letters to The
Editor

 

Dear Editor:

At the last meeting of the Student
Forum, John Fisher intimated his intention of stopping these meeting's.

The attendance has been falling
off. May we remind Mr. Fisher
that the Forums have aroused student opinion on many matters. A
student opinion which otherwise
reacted away in sloth.

Let thie attendance fall off! For
as the chaff is separated from the
wheat the scandal-seekers and defeatists will fall by the way-side.

Come John, do not let your political training allow you to worship
the vulgar mob. Dalhousie students
have gained by your presence and
your fordwardness. Don’t be shocked into reticence by the non-attendance of those who you yourself decry.

The average student finds in the
Student Forum. an access to the
Council. Don’t take it away.

ELKY.

DENTAL SOCIETY— |

(Continued from Page One)
tor—dynamic and forceful, the pro
‘and Macintosh brought the score to
/19-19 at half-time. Ted Crease,
Captain Mit and Donnie MacKintosh
‘showed the fine advantage in this
stanza in spite of the general slow‘ness of the play.

In the second half Dalhousie out|scored the “Y” 22-5, showing much
‘superior brand of ball. The Tigers’
plays seemed to click better and the
boys plopped the ball through the

ring a little more consistently. From

the whistle the Varsity team seemed
to be out to convince the “Y” boys

 

 

that their play in the first half was
not their usual type. Time and
again they scored, almost every
player scoring, wihout the “Y” able
to retaliate. The tiring Y.M.C.A.
squad put up a good fight, but appeared to be unable to stop the yellow and black. It is interesting to
note that almost all the scoring in
this half was done by new and untried members of the Dal. team.
Serlin, Shainhouse, Green and especially Macintosh, all turned in a good
game. The old battle-scarred veterans, Ted Crease and Mit Musgrace,
were on the spot all the time and
showed that they have lost none of
their former class.

The “Y”, although handicapped by
a scarcity of substitutes, put up a
game fight, Parker and Beasley
especially showing up to good advantage. The game throughout was
very rough on both sides, the referees being a little slack in their officiating. On the whole, however, the
game was very interesting to watch,
and it was disappointing that so few
students took advantage of this free
entertainment. The managership
hopes that a better turn-out will be
present for the Wanderers game on
Thursday, February 13th. We have
a team that looks as good as our
former championship squads, so let’s

moter of the much talked about|‘U*™ out and give them a hand. Ad
ministrel show and dance.

To his right is Joe Haule, sweetly
blending his lovely voice with the
agonizing shrieks of his patients, to
the tune of “Ave Maria.” If that
were not enough persuasion, let’s
see why Dr. Z. S. Messinger keeps
chanting to himself—“‘I want men, |
I need men—how can you have a
chorus without men?”

Nearby, inimitable Lou —————,
keeps strumming away forgetful of
the present, but determined that
the Dalhousie Sextette and the Dalhousie Quintette in the shows to
come will leave a indelible imprint
of the versatility of Dalhousie Dental Students.

And so it goes—everywhere we
look we see chaos, bedlam and confusion. A more appropriate name
for the infirmary would be the Dental and Theatrical Sanitarium, because, right now almost every dental student is earnestly working for
the success of the show to come.
From the look of the rehearsals, it |
promises to be a corker. The Dental School has the talent, the sincere, earnest, and faithful support
of ail concerned. Only one thing
more is necessary when the show is
announced—we want each and every

vance notices that the band would
be present at Tuesday’s night game
were fortunately erroneous.

Dalhousie:

T. Crease, 10; D. Crease, 4; Musgrave, 5; Shainhouse, 6; Serlin, 6;
Cook, Tokosh, Macintosh, 4; Miller,
2; Green 4.

en Oe Se
Parker, 6; Smith, 5; Goudey, 4;

Wilson, 2; Beasley, 7; Tousaw, Lorway.

 

   
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
    
  

Class Jewellery
For years Birks have
supplied Dalhousians i
Medicine, Law, Arts,
and various Societies,

Designs and_ prices
bladly submitted.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Diamond Merchants

in. a reversal of form surprised the
onlookers who believed the Cubs defence would quickly crumble under

score. Grant, Groucher and Chisholm starred for the winners while
Baird and Dean were the pick of the

derers scored three baskets in :

student to support it. Barrington St.

  
 

| four minutes to go they led at 19-14

losers. The line-up:

Dalhousie—Lyall, 1; Serlin, L.
Stewart, Shainhouse, E. Stewart, 4;
Tokosh, 2; Baird, 7; DuBilier, 5;
Dean, Kerman.

the attack of the powerful red and
black quintette. The Cubs went into
the lead from the first tip-off and at
half-time led at 8-5, Wanderers SCOr- |
ing a lone field goal and three fouls.
The second line, borrowed from the
Senior team for this game, couldn’t
seem to hit their stride and were not
the asset to the second team that
they were expected to be.

SECOND PERIOD

On the resumption of play in the
second period Wanderers began to
forge into the lead and at the halfway mark led by an 11-8 score. Then
the Cubs began to find the basket
and again took the lead until wit?

 

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every |
Description.
A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES, |
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.
21 Spring Garden Road

Halifax
That was their dying effort and Wan.

 

nl eerie

 

CASINO

Starting Saturday
FEBRUARY EIGHTH

LAUREL

AND

HARDY

“BONNIE
SCOTLAND”

Hoot Mon!
DON’T MISS IT!

 

  

 

  
 
 
  

TODAY, SAT., MON.

IRENE DUNNE
ROBERT TAYLOR

“Magnificent
Obsession

with
CHARLES BUTTERWORTH
The magnificent story of a

love that rose above tragedy
to be a glorious happiness!

 
      
     
 

99

 
    
      
 
  

  

  
 

 

 
