 
   

apt

A:

VUQUNLANOODNIQOAYAD0L0 000A

Peg] 
 

VOL. LXVI.

Re: eae NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 4, 1935

 

 

 

 

‘DAL TEAM ALL | Glee Club Artists
In First Presentation Is D. A.A.C. CRY

ie SET FOR GAME

On Saturday Dalhousie’s renovated Black and Gold fifteen
opens the 1935 football campaign against Fred Kelly’s Axemen.

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

*

fet
f

es
:
a +

we oetas =
,

 

 

_ Ancient collegiate rivals, the two neighboring universities will

both be batttling to draw the first blood of the new tiele race.
Smarting under three successive defeats at the hands of

the Acadians, the Tigers will be fighting for more than a mere
football game—they will be fighting for their old reputation

     

es

in Maritime rugger circles.

The odds for Saturday’s tussle are
on the home team. Possessing the
strongest scrum and backline in several years, home fans look for the
stripe-shirted Bengals to emerge victorious. On the other hand, the garnet and blue Acadians have inherited
Dalhousie’s injury nemesis and their
none too strong ranks have been
seriously depleted. But Acadia has
defeated Dal on the home field for
the past two years and the ‘1igers
will have to go all the way out to
win from the Valley outfit which has
always been famed for its fighting

- Enthusiasm runs high not only
_among the players themselves but

   

: ae the iene also. ‘Shades of
+ ne a Singer! The interest. has
ead hed su a peak that at ‘the 1 time

gt Sole to press a Dal band has

- been promised. Through the tireless
efforts of Glee Club executive mem
bers, a new band has been partially

organized and ten to one will be a
certainty by Saturday.

University football authorities expect a large crowd at the game—
maybe even two thousand. Important as the battle is to both teams,
it will be one of the best of this
season. Cheer leaders, a band, a big
crowd, and an optimistic outlook

lend sufficient atmosphere to bring |

 

College Head
Suggests Revolt

 

There should be a revolt of the
und:rgraduates against the type of
dancing and music that is rife in
Dalhousie University.

This was the idea presented to the
students of the University yesterday
by President Carleton Stanley, when
he addressed the members in solemn
conclave at the gymnasium at noon
time.

_ Taking as his subject the fact that
the main thing about college is what
the student is doing with his time,

‘President Stanley was in favor of

the students being revolutionists,
since it would be fatal for the future of the world if they were not,
he said.

He described compulsory athletics
as a robit-like procedure and urged
the students to take the task upon
their own shoulders, so that the
training would be alive and not dead.

 

a berth there somewhere, but as
Coach Jim is experimenting with
various combinations it is hard to
say just where. The remainder of

the fans to the point where they will |the squad leaves great material for |
lend their support to the team and | the intermediate squad and the Cubs

thus impetus to their endeavor. The |
old Dalhousie is coming back, or
is it?

|
|

should make it a hot race for the
Intermediate title.
Manager Bob McLellan al!

is

As we go to press the teams | smiles these days and expects his

have not been selected, but we can
pretty accurately pick the majority
of the positions and bet one hundred
per cent. The recent turnouts have
produced as many as forty-five players who are all likely senior and intermediate performers. Coach “Big
Jim” MacDonald is driving the candidates through practice drills which
have been plenty tough and the
players seem to like it. One thing
is certain, the boys that land the
first team berths will be in good
shape or else. Coach MacDonald
believes that the team must be
tough, have condition, and be able
to take it. If the brand of ball is
poor, it shouldn’t be, at least the
Tigers will fight.

Lawrence, Stephenson and Ball,
three fast and fairly heavy front
liners, look good for first line scrum.
In the back row Gunter, DeWolfe
and Cook should land the berths and
will cause the opposition plenty of
triuble. The scrum half’s job is
practically owned by Allie McSween,
who has turned in more than one
stellar performance for this college.
Behind the scrum for the third successive year will likely be Doug
Crease, a smart and tricky ballhandler and owner of an educated
toe. Jack Buckley, veteran threequarter, is still there with the
speedsters; Bud Thompson and
Henry Ross patrolling the wing and
three - quarter positions. Hazen
Mitchell, Jack Worrell, Hal Connor
and Mike Hinchey will probably land

 

Ee —  <cnn sneer

boys to come through with a win
on Saturday. This is one of Dal’s
two home games this year, so a
large turnout is promised. A victory for the Bengals will give them
a big notch on the championship, and
with the Wanderers as strong as
they are the league opener is a vital
tussle to both Acadia and Dal. The
team needs everybody’s support, so
let’s se every student out. A good
game and a good time is promised
for each and every one of us.

DEBATING TRIALS

Tuesday Evening, Oct. 8th,
at 8 P. M. in the Munro
Room, Forrest Bldg.
The team which will represent
Dalhousie against Bishop’s —

Western Ontario University, here
on Novy. 4th, will be selected from
the candidates of that evening.
The trials will take the form
of short talks by each candidate

on the subject, “Do You Favor
the Intreduction of a Third Party
in Canada’s Political Life?”

Each candidate will have five
minutes in which to present his
views. It does not call for elaborate prepparation. Give us your
views. Three members of the
faculty will select the team at
the conclusion of the trials. .

This is an invitation to every
member of Dalhousie.

 

At 8.30 Wednesday night Tight Balkousie officially played host |

to the Class of ’39 ’midst a round of booes and applause directed |

at the voluble John Fisher, master of ceremonies and Freshmen

Representative.

an animated air of enthusiasm,

men marched to their reserved seats and settled themselvs in

The first number presented by the

The audience stamped approval as the Fresh
most unusual for Dalhousie.

 

Saturday, October 5th,

TONVEDOODOUUINUOOEUVOUNSREELUANGD EHSL

Don’t Miss
the

Tea Dance

Saturday

 

LT Te TTY

 

 

No. 2

SUPPORT TEAM

is the day when the Dalhousie

Rugby team, wearing their flashy new uniforms, will take the
field against their traditional rivals—Acadia. The D. A. A. C.
hopes and firmly believes that game will mark the beginning

‘ihe programme continued with a

of the revival of good old Dalhousie spirit.
on the field the Dalhousie band will give additional support to

As the team comes

Glee Club developed unexpectedl, | piano duet by John Morrison and
when John Fisher suddenly broke! Phil Seargent, playing the ever-pop
 

the cheers of the spectators.

| Immediately after the game ar
away from his duties as master of
ceremonies and delivered a lively
exhortation on school politics. (He
refers to the Glee Club managers
for an explanation—he was only to

‘fill in time). \/ildly condemning the

revival to Rah! Rah! days, he sanc
tioned the participation of all students in those extra-curricular ci:

cles—for which they were paying
good money; emphasizing that
mass of latent energy existed in the
Freshmen Class and that support
was due the various organizaticns.

a

Fisher hoped to see the enthusiasm

assert itself in this light.

After he had hurled a few wellthrust imprecations, he submitted ic
the boos and made his exit. He
subsequently returned and_ introduced the leaders of the various organizations

The Sophomores then occupied the
spotlight when they severely disciplined a Freshman by making him
roll a peanut across the stage with
his nose. The job was nobly done
in one minute and forty-two seconds.

‘ular St. Louis Blues and Dinah.
“Big Bill” Stevens, the find of last
year’s shows, rendered two wellchosen numbers, expressing tender
emotions in each. A luminescent bal‘let followed, in which Lou Morrison !

the accompaniment of J.

at the piano. Lou Figman, a for
competition on Major Bowes’ am
played the guitar.
offered

 

definite improvement over her previous offerings last year.

Bob Begg, with his two cohorts,
proceeded to lead the crowd in cheer
and he lost his voice in the attempt.

In closing, John Fisher reminded
the audience of the wave of enthusiasm that is sweeping Dalhousie and
asked each and every one to pelase

 

‘until midnight.

 

  

   
 
 
    
    
  
   
  
 

First Team
Worrell
Connor, Ross ...

Buckley
Crease, D
MacSween

a. Om we 6 6) 6 6 at ae

FLASH

DAL TEAM ANNOUNCED

Hinchey, Thompson. .Centre Three Qtrs...

Serum Half

 

GAZETTE SCOOPS DAILIES WITH ANNOUNCEMENT
OF DAL TEAMS

Second Team

BRE ON © SIMONE oor We Nw tae arash, e's sacle Gosse

.Wing Three Quarters. .Cameron, Mitchell
Hanway, Corston

Ree ORte Ay ie cs ake cee Smith
RPAHCOLE ERATE ois.» acne ees Lipton

Webber

e 6 ee © <€ Wie; Oe BO -Se ye

PONCE. oi cals sk 0k a ot POEL gs hc det ain 50% 1a Stevenson
Mercer McKenzie
Ball Pauker
Gunter Hodgson
Cook (Fenwick) Fenwick (Stevenson, R.)
Shepherd Beeber
DeWolfe Rogers

  
 

SHIRREFF HALL NOTES

Third floor and one of the wings
thave closed at the Hall—however,
what we have lost in quanity we
make up in quality.

 

Last Friday the Co-Eds of Da!housie had an opportunity to meet
the freshettes and renew friendships
when the Alumnae Association entertained the women students at tea,

Helen Holman has joined the
“White Cross” brigade.

The Alpha Gamma Delta sorority
have taken a room for the college
term at 16 Seymour Street.

 

With the freshmen activities drawing to a close, it is the Sophettes

 

who will take the centre of the stage
as the three sororities buzz around
like bees around a honey pot—rushing season will begin next week—
unique parties, elaborate dances and
luncheons will be in full swing.

 

We want to know why the freshettes are getting nicer rooms in
preference to a Junior.

One see a great deal of controversy in the papers as to the men
who deserve credit for the Present
Advanced Position of the World. Is
the World occupying an advanced

position at Present?

 

two pleasurable numbers,; been seen for many years.
singing a lyric-soprano that showed| ful of car and tram operators the |
group continued on thei merry way |

not go “Rah! Rah” Dancing followed :

SS SAT

Freshmen Spirit
Returns to Dal

 

On Monday night with a magnifi- |

class figuratively and

mer radio crooner and recently in, down Spring Garden Road after a

 

rangements have been made to hold
.a Tea Dance in the Gym. Laurie
Hart’s nine-piece orchestra will pro‘vide two hours of dance music, and

|refreshments will be served, ending

what is going to be a real Dalhousie
‘gracefully leaped about the stage to} cent display of spirit and pep the * ay. er :
Morrison | Freshmen

The only unknown quantity is

the support from the students of

literally “went to town”. Parading Dalkducic
; ; ' Here is the question President
rousing ra‘ly at the gym, the Frosh|,, : :
& y 83 °*"| Barnhill asks every student, “Will

Disdain
t> the The Capitol Theatre where

Don Murray and his orchestra then | they were the guests of the manag2took the stage, featuring a danzette.| ment.

A few cars helped in the journey
down town. The Frosh climbed all
over these vehicles singing and
shouting. One driver noting the terrifie volume in and about his car,
drove ahead a short piece stopped
and counted twenty-two voices had
welled the chorus of “Dalhousie
Dream Girl”.

After the show the group went in
a body to a Spring Garden Road ice
cream parlour.
to overflowing the Dal yell was given
repeatedly. In the confined quarters
the cheer, rising in crescendo, as 1%
should be given, attracted a large

ateur hour, sang two numbers and| amid loud cheering and hearty sing- |

Fran Gardner! ing, presented a sight which has not tion of the hard work done: by the

Crowding the seats |
|that no detail may be lacking for

 

|Acadia meet.

you be there and show yor apprecia
D. A. A. C., the Glee Club and
others who have worked to make the
afternoon a success.

Surely the team that has worked
through three weeks oftraining deserves and will get your wholehearted support. Prof. Jom MacDonald has given of his time instintingly in coaching this team;
Prof. Fletcher, busy taking over his
new duties as Professor of Education, has still found time to train
the Black and Yellow forwards.
With only a week’s notice, the officials of the Glee Club have not
only organized a Dalhousie band,
but have made arrangements to secure instruments and music in order
the big day when Dalhousie and
Three cheer leaders
have been secured to lead the Dal
crowd curious at these vigorous|housie cheers. Support them. Lastno’se makers. ly the roe and the D. A. A. C.

quieted down somewhat. A few Dal | ball Tea ‘D: ance peat denosths
upper classmen, keen psychologists, | YOUr co-operation.

; : ane i
wanting more noise, gave the Wan-| All these workers who are co
derers cheer. Bedlam followed. The
Frosh beating on the tables with

| operating

ask the students to dis| prove the ‘e@tddion that college spirit

both fists to keep time, threw back | at Dalhousie is a thing of the past.

a thunderous Dal war ery in robust
answer,

After the management had cauti- | out Saturday

They go
with every

even
true

further and plead
Dalhousian to turn

afternoon, watch the

ously removed salt and pepper cel-|game between two fighting teams,
lars, the Frosh, after a little more. cheer on your team when they waver,

chaffing began to depart. They had

about all left when two mounties |

inadvertently or not, entered. A few
seniors spoke to them while the removing Frosh beat a hasty retreat.

Sodales, better athletics in general

will be the result of a spirit as shown |

by that of the Freshmen Class this

year.

    

Class '39

The frosh seem to have been
imbued with some of the initiative
of their representative. In any
case three of the newcomers have
decided that the Class of ’39
should have a yell of its own—
here it is:

  

Oak and maple, spruce and pine,
We are the Class of °39.
Ski, chili, doodle da,
Freshmen, Freshmen,
rah!!

rah, rah,

If you like it give the credit to
Alex Hart, Jack Arnell and Wallie Wright, if not blame them,
too.

 

 

| tion in 100%
afternoon.

and finish off the day in the Gym
to the strains of Laurie Hart’s ninepiece orchestra.

In the above article we have given
you a brief resumé of what has
taken place in the past three weeks,
and what we hope will take place
on Saturday.

I should now like to take the opportunity, on behalf of the D.A.A.C.
managing committee, to extend my
thanks to the Glee Club executive
and members of our newly formed
band for their efforts put forward
on such short notice. To the
Alumnae and Alumni for their valuable suggestions and co-operation.
To the boys who have volunteered to
take on the thankless job of cheerleading and other members of the
student body who have assisted in
any way. I sincerely hope that this
can also be extended to the student
| body as a whole for their co- -operaattendance Saturday

EDWARD B. BARNHILL,

Pres. D.A.A.C.

 
     

a

 

ie
Ne

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  

oe <_”

» an
f

eae

7

ee cant, :
being combined with the Gazette.

 

   
   

¥

im
y
=}

- Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”

‘ ne
| EDITORIAL STAFF

 
 

Editors
. GR . IRVING 2INK
'B. 4148 7 2449
News Editor
PHIL SARGEANT
H-298 J
Society . Editor Sports Editor
‘MERLE PURTILL TED CREASE
B. 2148 Staff Artist B. 5737
. : Cc. F. BENTLEY
Business Manager Assistant
J. R. H. SUTHERLAND DOUGLAS CREASE
oo Robt B. 5737

WAR OR DALHOUSIE?

- War, War, the topic of the hour. Questioning minds ask
‘will England be involved, and if so the moot point arises
wee Canada will be considered a belligerent by the Family
Nations should the Mother Country be dragged into the fray.
Te are on the eve of an election. Most likely there will be a
lebiscite on the question; but here is the rub, even if there is
a plebiscite we predict that under present conditions the vote
will go in favor of war.

Our job right now is to wipe out any possible chance of
Ganada becoming involved in a war. Each and every college
student in every university in Canada has a job to perform,
and that is to preach Peace. At no cost should we take the
chance of being tied up in a scrap which may mean the end of
civilization should it develop into a world-wide conflict.

There it is, and we do not feel that we are shaming those
who gave so much in the last war, but that we are doing what
they themselves would do today, that is, profit by their experience.

   
   

 

OUR FOOTBALL TEAM

Again the football season is upon us, and football is more
in evidence at Dalhousie than it has been during the past few
years. Any casual observer who walks past the gridiron in the
early afternoon will notice a number of stalwarts plodding
wearily up and down the Studley field under the capable direction of coaches MacDonald and Fletcher. The players are giving unselfishly of their time and effort, and the old “spirit
that has been lacking for the past few years is rapidly on the
return. We are going to have a better team than Dalhousie
has seen in years, and one which every student can truly fee]
proud.
‘ However, good football players alone do not make a winning team. It is necessary to have the support of the whole
student body. It is a very simple matter for each and every
one of us to decry football conditions at Dalhousie, and still

easier for us to criticise, but that helps matters very little.
Each true son of Dalhousie has a part to play and it’s nearly
time that he learns just what that is. If he doesn’t play football the least he can do is get out to the game and give our boys
his moral support. It is this studtnt support that has been

- Jacking during the last few seasons.

Last season, after the poor showing that Dal made in footpall, a great many of the promoters of the sport felt that English Rugby would give way to the American game. The Gaztte
was one of the few supporters of the old order. We know that
English Rugby at Dalhousie is once again on the upgrade. Once
again we hope to see a band playing the old Dal songs on the
football field; we want to see the stands filled to capacity while
throngs stand on the sidelines; we want to see all Dalhousians
in a group cheering their team on to victory; we want to see
a true Dalhousie spirit present at every game. Then, whether
our team wins or loses, we will have done our bit, and no longer
will the critics be able to condemn our “Little College by the
Sea’ by declaiming the lack of co-operation of its students.

This may seem like a pipe dream to many. But we feel
and know that it is not too much to ask. Before Saturday’s
game with Acadia learn the Dal yells and don’t be afraid to get
out on the field and raise your voice above a whisper. We are
in back of our football team and we want them to know it.
Best of luck, Tigers. We'll all be out to see you trim the
Axemen.

CO-OPERATION

Last year approximately ten students turned out the
Dalhousie Gazette. When one stops to consider that there are
about nine hundred or so students at this University, and the
editors by much begging, promising, and bullying can only
manage to get ten students out of this number to write for
their own college paper, it is indeed a sorrowful state of affairs.
Shirreff Hall, which houses about seventy or so female students,
held the record so far as female writers were concerned, and
there was only one girl in all that group which sent in any
amount of copy to speak of—one out of seventy.

Every student on the campus should be proud to write for
his or her paper; they should be happy to see work of their
own in print. This in itself should stir up enough initiative to
have enough copy sent in each week to fill up two Gazettes.
Unfortunately such is not the case; each student thinks that
he or she is doing the editors a favor by sending in a bit of
copy to the paper. This is not the editors’ paper—it is yours.
It can only be as good as you make it.

This year, more so than ever, each student should feel
particularly pleased to have something of his or hers published
in the Gazette, for its circulation has been increased to over the
thousand mark, and if plans which are now under way work
out the number will reach five thousand. This year the Allumni
are co-operating with the student body; an effort is being made
to arouse the interest of the graduates of former years in our

The Alumni News, the official Alumni publication, is
This means that all the
Alumni who formerly received the News will this year receive
the Gazette. Your writings will be read by at least five thov‘sand people—by men and women in all walks of life, all over

a the world. This may be the means of establishing a link which

fae ae any
miei, fe

/
w.-, a
ee A
- " ».*
oS ae
1 ae ay
F a 7 Pa
r

give you a start when you graduate.

will g Try it—you have
nothing to lose and everything to gain.

sf.

ES ee

i
CC

a
i

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

A Three-Year Course Change In Covetomeat!

 

The most promounced development
in American colleges in the present
century has been the gradual lengthening of the professional courses.
At one time, not so long ago, a student with a matriculation entrance
could complete the medical course in
four years. Not only has medicine
been stretched to five years and in
some colleges to six, but students
have been urged to take a degree in
arts or science before entering the
medical schools At Harvard, for
example, applicants for admission to
the medical school are required to
have already completed two years
in arts. That is the requirement in
the catalogue; but in practice no one
gets into the medical school without
a degree in arts or science. There
is another serious side to the matter.
In theory the course in arts is to give
the future doctor a cultural background, but the writer knows from
experience how impossible it is for
the undergraduate to take courses
other than pre-medical if he wishes
to gain admission to the professional
school.

Now, this lengthening of all professional courses—for the tendency
is not in medicine alone—may be
warranted by the great increase in
scientific and professional knowledge,
but it is having disastrous effects on
our lives. In the first place there is
the economic drain. Not only has
the time of study lengthened but the
cost of tuition and living has mounted rapidly. We are almost face to
face with the time when a professional career will be open only to
the children of the rich. Again our
conception of the age of marriage
is changing. Some years ago it was
usual for a man to marry in the
early twenties. Today our young
men are still in college in those
years, and then they must look forward to several years spent in building up a practice. (One might mention incidentally that many of us
have to spend several years paying
off college debts.) Now most people
are agreed that the married man
takes his civic responsibilities more
seriously than does the bachelor; he
has, to quote Bacon, given hostages
to fortune. In our present situation,
then, are there not the seeds of disintegration of our political system?
One other danger should be mentioned. Our social and moral systems are likewise threatened. If
young people cannot marry as early
as did their parents and grandparents, so the argument runs, we
should not expect them to live according to the same moral code.
Should we change the moral code?
Yet psychologists like Havelock Ellis
consider monogamy much superior
in personal and social implications
to promiscuity. Is not then our
lengthening of colleges courses costing too much?

Many of our leading educators
thinks so and believe it is high time
we went “into reverse’. But on the
method they are not agreed. The
present writer holds that at Dalhousie we are in an exceptionally
good yosition to show the way. We
have a short session; let us lengthen
the session and give the first degree
in three years,

At present our session consists of
twenty-six weeks of lectures, and
about three weeks of examinations;
in all, not more than thirty weeks.
The origin is very simple. Our predecessors came in large part from
the farm. The session enabled them
to help take in the harvest and to
plant the crop in the spring. Times
have changed, however; most of our
students do ndt. come from the farm.
Why should not the session change
too? If we divided the present
fourth year among the first three
years we should add less than nine
weeks to each, making three sessions
of thirty-five weeks of lectures with
three or four weeks more for examinations: in all a session of thirtynine, There would still be thirteen
weeks of vacation. In reality, however, it would not be necessary to
add a full nine weeks to get the
equivalent of the present fourth
year. Any instructor or student
knows that the present long vacation is a period in which the student
forgets much of what he has learned; indeed, so keenly’ aware of this
fact are leaders in the American
professional schools that some are
already urging a drastic shortening
of the long vacations

 

i

 

|

ee

 

What change constitutes advance?
The most ardent exponent of any
proposed change will searcely supygest that change for its own sake
is sufficient. There must be some
puprpose served, or it is a hollow
delusion. Day by
changes physically,
portant, it changes
ing, in fact, can be in a real sense
static. That which does not change
of itself is influenced by its surroundings. Any person, organization, or community, which seeks to
resist change must inevitably change
relatively to the rest of the world.
The task then is to ascertain what
change will be beneficial, and to
seek insofar as possible to direct
matters along the path of change
which they ought to follow.

     

When the constitutionality of his
.| Social Credit measures were ques
day this world
and, more imsocially. Noth
tioned, Aberhart said, “Just because
an old paper was signed in the past
doesn’t say we can’t do this. The
B. N. A. Act is a fool act. We can
de what we want.” The reform policies of the major parties indicate
that the party leaders share his sentiments. Third year Law students
may now cut Con Law with impunity.

 

Mussolini, despite his pride in his
tanks, airplanes, gas and machine
 

Unwise would be the man who unBroadly speaking, governments in|necessarily promised to _ institute
every country in the world within| these social measures, for they are
the last century, but more especially|a very heavy drain upon governduring the post-war period, have|ment treasuries. Nevertheless, both
changed their outlook and attitude.|old parties, the Conservative and
The present writer has more especial|the Liberal, seek to embody these
reference to the governments of|“reform” measures within thei:
Canada, both Dominion and Pro-|ancient platforms; and each new
vincial.. In the days when the| party bases itself upon its own seFathers of Confederation worried | lection of social reform measures.

SOMETHING TO
THINK ABOUT

 

Friday, October 4, 1935

guns, would do well to remember
that the old and the new do not mix.
If not immediately conquered the
Ethiopians will undoubtedly wage a
guerilla warfare. Modern weapons
are only suited to modern warfare,
where thousands of men are massed
closely together. Of what avail to
waste a $500 shell on a lone Abyssinian?

At Princeton the old “eut” system whereby an undergraduate was
allowed 18 absences in two consecutive terms, has been abolished. A
student who maintains a satisfactory
scholastic record will be accorded a
discretion in the matter of attendance.. Should he fall behind scholastically or violate rules of discipline a poor attendance record will
enter into consideration of his case.
The idea is to place greater responsibility on the undergraduate and
provide freedom from regulations
for the better students.

themselves greatly over the future |

of this country, what concern did
they have over the matters which
today constitute by far the out
standing election issues? How many |

of the bills passed at the last ses

 

The three most prominent new
parties seem to ignore completely
the thousand and one ordinary and

The New York Medical Weeek expresses fear of the tendency towards
‘necessary functions of government | socialization of medicine. The phyin an enthsuiastic dash to evolve a|sician works best, it argues, when
new heaven and a new earth by em-|he is professionally independent and

a
DE S.C.

sion of Parliament could have keen |phasizing certain particular aspects! unhampered by burearatie control.

within their ecn’cmplation? Sure!

ithe Canadian citizen, if not exclaim
}and functions of government.

 

It is| Compulsory health insurance will
not a question of the elector making | not keep the doctor from the poor

 

ing as he well might, “O tempozs |his choice between social legislation| house in time of depression, the

O mores”, will accompany Lloracc
when he says,
“Tempora mutantur, nos et

mutamur in illis.”

Indeed, times have changed, and
the world of 1867, and for that matter the world of 1914, has passed,
and here is a changed era. \Vhat
shall become of the present system
of government? Certainly, the
outlook of governments, not as representatives of political parties, but
as representative of the people, has
undergone a tremendous change.

What party in Canada _ today,
either in the Dominion or in the Provincial sphere, would dare come out

in flat-footed opposition to so-called catch-phrase of former.times, “the
Old Age Pen- greatest good of the greatest num
“social legislation”’.
sions, Minimum Hours of Labour,
Minimum Wages, Price Fixing, Unemployment Insurance, National
Insurance, Workmen’s Compensation,
—whence all these, and why?
Certain of these items are now
taken for granted in the ordinary
run of everyday life, others are issues of the moment, the remainder
continue for a time just a
distanee in the future. There must
be a large measure of public moral
support behind these measures or
they would not persist as they have
done, nor would political

 

; a
office
and no social legislation, but rather | journal continues, citing the superior

between competing quantities of the|eflicacy of the private school

over
same commodity. | the public institution during the
| ° ‘ “L: .

| Once upon a time a great states-| present period. This analogy is,
man established a goal for future} however, open to question. Private

governments by condensing a statement of the theory of government
in these terms: “Government of the
‘people, by the people, for the
| people.”

That was an excellent statement
\of the attitude toward government
in earlier days. Today it has|
changed somewhat. It remains “government of the people, by the people”, but it continues now “for the
individual”. Likewise the great

‘schools are usually heavily endowed,
while the young doctor, particularly
the Dalhousie graduate ,is not.

 

The present advent of clergymen
into the political ring raises questions both practical and _ ethical.
Even if capable of leading his sheep
in the path of righteousness . while
converting them a particular party
platform should he do so, knowing
of the unconscious association which
mmust inevitably arise in the minds
of said sheep? Should he go even
further and openly proclaim, as was
recently done, that the road to Paradise is under Reconstruction? How
soon before we see a man of God, a
bottle of rum in one hand and a
Biblet in the other?

 

 

ber”, has become “the greatest good
of each and every individual”.
There was a time when a healthy
condition of industry was indication
that all was well with the country
and its government. No longer is
there any such criterion. Change |
has set in and unless every individual| Schlink, co-author of $100,000,000
is satisfied with his estate, the gov- , Guinea Pigs”, and head of the Con
OO eee

 

 

short | ¢?nment has failed. Is it any won-|sumers’ Research Corporation, was,

der that no government has so far|until hitherto, the decrier of bigbeen able to retain office when| business gangsterism and the capfaced by such an insistent public |italist system. He is now using his
demand? The standards by which| knowledge of these
government is judged have | strike by forty-three

 

crush
union

to a

em
. ch x : 7 7 } 7 2c . » « , >
seekers promise to extend them. | anged; new governments must/ployees of the company who pro
 

schools. We could, then, do one of
two things lengthen the session by
nine weeks, or by a somewhat
shorter period. The latter would
give us as thorough instruction as
at present, the former would give
even better.

At once, objections will be raised.
Students can, under the present system, earn money to help them
through their course. During the
last five summers how many students have earned even one-fourth
of the cost of a session? Moreover,
the ultimate saving of a year would
outweigh any such consideration.
Some one may object that a Dalhousie degree would not be recognized by other universities. No university refuses to recognize our present

degree on the grounds that we have |

the shortest academic session on the
continent. But should all the graduate schools on the continent boycott us, how many of our graduates
would be affected?
saying to the effect that by their
fruits ye shall know them. And we
have seen good reason to believe that
graduates under the new plan
would, if possible, be even greater
than former graduates. The plan
may, so some will say, cut short the
period for outside reading. But Dalhousie undergraduates are not at
present given to vacation reading;
rather, to most of, them it is a
period completely divorced from the
intellectual life.

Viewed, then, from any angle the
proposed plan offers many advantages and no disadvantages. How

There is an old)

 

 

in these soon shall we see it put into effect?

seek somehow to
changed standards.

those tested
‘ policies.

satisfy against its unfair Iabor

 

SEE SHANE’S FOR SMART SUITS

 

and OVERCOATS |

Smart new styles and patterns at surprisingly
| low prices for real quality merchandise. Come
| in and look them over. We’re sure that you
| will be pleased at the large range to choose
| from. We are local agents for for

- NEW SUITS

“SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES”

New Fall Hats

Featuring the KENSINGTON, BROCK, and
the world-renowned STETSON.

Prices of Genuine Fur Felt Hats are
from $2.95 to $6.50. Wool Feits, $1.50

|
~ SHANE'S |
MEN'S SHOP

THIRTY SPRING GARDEN ROAD |

 

 

DAL STUDENTS’ RATE, A DISCOUNT OF 10%

 

 
   
  
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
    

rah
oa ou ¥
: “i
“ cj
ae
4 .

a
oe ;
Ts
eg
1, x

ir

a)
7
Ce
*
Py
i

i

 

 
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
   
  
  
    
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
    
 
    
     
   
 
 
 
 

- serve as a card table.

 

“ MU
» + ern 4
m s R
uy
] Wy
a
; ‘
ve) i >
Fr 5
bi , %
;
is *

ATION

ered all over the globe, in
laces than you would shake a
at—providing, of course, that
shake sticks at places and what
that may give you beats us—
ttered all over, as we were saying,

 

are tottering oldsters who still mumble through their toothless gums
strange tales of far-off days.

Back

through the dim recesses of cob
memory they trace many an

| : adventure and relive the past in the
_ present.
- Garrulous over their morning

gruel, these antiquated fossils hark

_ back to their days at Dalhousie, days

before the men’s smoking room in

the Arts building went sissy. They
_ recall the bridge games when a picture of the football team of ’Ol

would come down from the wall and
s They remember the attempt to reach the Science
building by a tunnel under the
campus. They cackle as they debate
all over again some discussion of
Sodales or the Moot Court.

The fossils, of course, are not all
male. Their female peers also exchange stories of those distant days
when dances used to be held in the
Gymnasium. They tiiter as they retell tales of Shirreff Hall. Some of
them even remember Forrest Hall.

All of which is interesting, (cries
of “Who says so?”) but is not getting us anywhere. The point is that
a number of these enfeebled old
crones nad ffaffers, known officially
as alumni and alumnae, are beginning to bestir their creaking joints
and totter out from their chimney
corners to discover how things are
going at Dalhousie.

It is hoped that the closer co-operation of these oldsters with the students of today will restore some of
their lost youth and that the students
will benefit from the increased interest of the alumni. Plans are
going forward briskly for greater
activity and alumni icfficers are hopeful of real results. Watch for more
details.

And now the wheelchair awaits
and this old frame must be carted

_ out for its morning airing. |

: W. G. A. 29

UMNI |OUR COLLEGE HOME

 

One of the many advantages provided at Dalhousie is a magnificent
residence for women students. NothIng could be more attractive than
Shirreff Hall with its elegant main
entrance, the beautiful view from its

windows, its cosy reception room and

alcoves. Innumerable factors contribute towards making it a delightful “home away from home.”

An infinity of material beauties
and physical comforts cannot compensate for the sheer absence of
friendliness. Where is the congenial
weleome and the feeling of fellowship that should fill every girls heart
with a devotion to Shirreff Hall and
respect for its traditions? There is
no such spirit of co-operation, no
such loyalty.

Pity the poor little freshette who
has anticipated college life with such
enthusiasm! She arrives to find herself a‘stranger in a barren land and
no one to give her a thought. If a
senior notices her at all it is to add
to her discomfort by laying down the
law. “Freshettes must answer
*phones”. They must do this and
they must do that—not because they
feel it is their duty, but because they
are commanded to do so.

Did anyone ever think of assuring
them that a bond of loyalty and devotion should unite all Shirreff Hall
gr's? No!—because there is no
such bond. There is no desire to cooperate and make life at Shirreff
Hall pleasant and constructive. The
girls are contented to break up into
ittle cliqu2s and sit tight lest some
suis.der shoudl barge in. They cling
to the sorcrity but let Shirreff Hall
go to blazes!

There are two reasons tor this
deplorable state of affairs—sororites
and the superiority complex that infests the place. Can Shirreff Hall
girls never discard the idea that
they, and they alone, are perfect?
They may be far above the average
but they should not make it so obvicus that they themselves think so.
Nothing cou-d be more ironical than
the Shirreff Hall motto. “Esse quam
videri.” ’Tis a pity the girls can not
neglect “seeming” and make an at
empt to “be”. The time they spend
posing and bragging about the num
(Continued on Page Four)

 

i
: —
SS Sepsis seein

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

  
       

 

or © hy ae
ABLES

VB LES

    

We knew that sooner or later we
would have to answer that question.
Yes, FRESHETTES, that tall good
locking youn man is Hal Connor—
and the song that he is humming is
“MY BOONIE LIES OVER THE

OCEAN”

 

The papers tell us that crops in
Florida and the West Indies have
been damaged by hurricanes but
there seems to have been no damage
to the upper lip foliage—for, as far
as we know, no razors have been
applied and despit comment all involved seem to be bearing up well.
The past season must have been a
good one but much daily care must
be taken before any new members
can be admitted to the LESTER
MOUSTACHE CLUB.

 

Many may have heard story about
the local fraternity which advertised
in one of Canad’s great newspapers
for a housekeeper. We do not know
whether the ad-writer misinformed
the public or whether there is a misconception as to just what a fraternity is, but the fact remains that one

reply to the advertisement was some- |

thing like this: ‘I would like to apply for the position of housekeeper
for your fraternity house. Because
of my experience, I think you will
find that I can quite capably fill the
position. Although I am not a nurse,
I used to go with my husband, who
was a doctor before he died, on many
of his difficult cases. I am also
very fond fo children’.

 

Did you hear about the press-gang
operation off this port during the
past summer? We did and as our
information came from very reliable
source we see no reason for disbelieving the story. Perhaps we
should have headed this paragraph
“KIDNAPPED” but that might
create the wrong impression. “Pressing Into Service” would seem to be
the better title as that does not reek
with criminality. While the operation of a press-gang in the dim past
might not have been 100% legal, yet
it was tolerated. Here is the story—
fact or fable as you please.

One day during the past summer
a certain member of the Freshman
class was taken, in a nice way of
course, for an excursion on the Atlantic. When away out—near Herring Cove—the demeanour of his host
and the other guests was changed
and the startled lad found that he
was in the midst of a group who
wished certain things and was in no
mood to be trifled with—they wanted action. We do not know what
the conspirators told the prospective
Freshman would be his fate if he
did not do as bid—but he did sign a
document t othe effect that he would
join a certain fraternity.

The mission having been successfully completed the boat was turned
about and returned to port—not a
very pleasant thing to down after
beer. By way of covering up any
false clues that we may have given
—for the identity of all concerned
must remain a mute mystery of the
sea—we hasten to te!l you that the
expedition did not take place on any
boat propelled by hand or motor
power.

 

We overheard two FRESHMEN
talking. Said the first to the second:
“I wish I had not taken life so seriously during my high school days; I
wish I had played more—carried on
like the others.” Said the second to
the first: “In that case, you should
have gone to R.M.C. because there
they make you carry on.”

We like to read the advertisements, From such reading we learn

   

°F a SOs
Sh Ss =

ee Seepeeeenee tet
lls

\

POS

‘Among Our Professors

 

UVGULNUSDOULNOLQOUALASRASRULLALAUO ATH HHNNINN ; only by the intercession of the ves
or
Lectures As They Are Neven Given.

 

SDLIU HUI UAQALUY COON ESASEDLUS0 ESAS US
HISTORY 2.

We touch today upon the fringes
of civilization, the hem of the undergarment of culture, if you'll pardon
the allusion—just a slip, as it were,
in the complete foundation of our
modern history. Now, of number 36
will stop making eyes at number 72
and make them at me for a moment,
we shall deal for a little while with
one of the most colorful figures in
Roman history, namely,

C. J. CAESAR

On July 12th, 102 B.C: (which does
NOT mean Before the Crash), a
child was born in Rome. There
seemed nothing unusual in this at
first, for the infant was just another
squalling, red-faced brat, but as the
days went on it was seen that he was
the image of his father in a few respects, especially the teeth and hair.
He also had a roman nose and roamin’ hands just like any other boy.
This, then, was C. J. Caesar in adolescence.

Julius was a bright lad and soon
became tangled up in the political
web. He learned all the fine points
of hand-shaking, baby-kissing, backslapping and leg-pulling and joined
the “populares”, form of Socialistic
Reconstruction Party. When Sulla,
the head of the rather conservative
existing government, was away from
Rome on an election campaign, the
S. R. P. started acting up. During
the rumpus, Caesar’s two uncles
were killed. This made him sort of
thick with the rabble. But when he
refused to marry the daughter of a
wealthy capitalist in favor of a girl
in his own class, the masses were
solidly behind him, for he had shown
the true Socialistic spirit.

When Sulla returned and regained
control of the government, he declared Jullius to be Public Enemy
Number 1, a specie of reptile lower
than Primo Carnera’s arches, and
ordered him to be thrown to the
lions on sight. His life was spared
a teriasiemetal ic. otnepemsieniaspaditeemensictnaios=singesiienpapncpaiin
much about life—what to wear and
what not to wear, new cures and new
ailments for these cures, and many
startling announcements. By way
of example we quote from a recent
advertisement of the BELL TELEPHONE which carried this dramatic
line: Telephone Communication With
Anyone, Anywhere, At Any Time.
We admit that telephone service has
improved greatly during the last few
years but we think thta the writer
of the above line was exaggerating
slightly. At any rate, we know that
he was not a Dalhousie man. Did
you ever try to phone Shirreff Hall
between 5.30 and 8.00 p.m.?

 

Our informant tells us that the
Czar of the Law Library is responsi
ble for this retort, uttered in reply |

to the question: “Don’t you think
that so-and-so is tempermental?”
“Yes, I do. 95% temper and 5%
mental.”

 

A few years ago a youns and
promising Freshie made the unfortunate mistake of asking a fullfledged Senior whether he too was
a Freshman. Not many days later
his poor mangled body was found
in marshy soil a few miles from the
campus.

Moral: Be circumspect.

Se ee

Young Law Student pulls a boner
while stumping for political party in
present campaign.

“Ladies and gentlemen, you now
see poverty staring you in the face.”

ES

JOB WANTED

Thoroughly experienced Barber
wants job with Dal Students.
Expert in Canadian and American
Hair Cut styles. Apply at

BEN BOWLBY’S

445 BARRINGTON ST.
25 CENT RATE.

      

   
  
  
  
   
   

   
     
  

   
  

   
 

     

\
)

nnn
eee
EE

 

 

gg egg pons passa
SD DE

tal virgins, thus proving that even
though married, Caesar was vergin’
toward a reputation as a social lion
among the ladies, a fact which had
its repercussions in Egypt in later
days and night, if we are to believe
the historians.

The boy Julius now developed into Number 1 Muscle-in-er for Rome
and went all over the then known
world exacting tribute in a manner
which was to be emulated by his
fellow-countrymen on a small scale
in a couple of thousand years.

When he arrived at what is now
France, the inhabitants sent a delegation of mayors to him, asking just
what were his intentions. Caesar
replied candidly, “Well, I like your
Gaul,” and prepared to invade the
country. Such courtesy was not to
be denied.

As a lad, Julius was a great admirer of the farcist, Josephus Pennerus, and everywhere he went he
inquired in Joe’s own puaint fashion,
“Wanta viaduct” The sale of ducts
was great, as evidenced by their existence stil inl several lands.

During his campaigns Caesar
amused himself by acting as War
Correspondent to the Roman press.
His accounts of how the Gauls were
gaully and the Nervii were nervy
had a little too much ego in them,
perhaps, but made interesting, if
enforced, reading for college students ever since.

Meanwhile his party had been

elected in almost every constituency | weeks w

and Caesar returned to Rome to take
over the reins of Prime Minister to
guide of the ship of State on the
proper track. “Eat, drink, and be
married, for tomorrow is another
day,” was the order of things, but
after the Ides of March had passed,
Caesar had no interest for such
trivialities. Up to then, even his
best friends wouldn’t tell him what
was wrong, and when he was stabbed
to death in the market place, he felt
very bad about it. When he saw his
best friend, Brutus, preparing to
take a crack at him, he covered his
face under his blanket and said,
“Tee hee, Brue.” Then he was defunct and became famous.

Antony was asked to say a few
words by Brutus and behaved like
all other politicians, speaking for an
hour and six minutes. In effect, he
said:

“Friends, Romans, and people from
the country! Lend me your ears; I
will return them when I am finished.
I come to bury Caesar because the
times are hard, and his people can’t
afford to hire an undertaker. The
evil that men do lives after them,—
in the form of kiddies who reap the
benefits of their life insurance, if
the premiums are kept up to date.
Are you listenin’, Cleo? Huh? So
let it be with Caesar.

Unaccustomed as I am to public
speaking—No, that’s the Orphan
Milk sp eech. Where the devil are
my notes? Ah!

“Brutus has told you Caesar was
ammbitious. What does Brutus know

about it? Why doth Brutus bootless kneel? Answer, his shoes were
tight. It is none of his funeral.

Would that it were!

“Here under leave of you I come
to make a speech at Caesar’s funeral.
He was my friend, faithful and just
to me. Often have I drunk his
wine and borrowed his toga whilst
he slept, with utter confidence in my

‘integrity. But Brutus says he was
| ambitious.

“If you have tears, prepare to
shed them now. You all see this
ulster No, it won’t disappear, Cassius. I rember the first time Caesar
put it on. It was on a summer’s
evening in his tent, with the thermometer higher than it ever gets
in Abbysinia. Caesar was always
a cold-blooded man; yet—-was this
ambition ?

“Kind friends, sweet friends, I do
not wish to stir you up to a sudden
flood of mutiny, for the Tiber is high
enough now, and as it looks like
rain, the pall bearers will please
place the coffin in the hearse, and
we will proceed to bury Caesar, not
to praise him.” :

Julius Caesar was indeed a man
among men, a lion among women,
but he fell among thieves.

  
       
 

——

T .TEA D

In Gym—5.00 to 7.00 P.M. 25¢ each {

 

 

 

 

SS <<< aE n <p
iS Oe <

'constructionist clothing ?

| we can’t even paddle the fresh frosh.

Page Three

BACKSIGHT

AND

FORESIGHT

 

Has Mussolini got himself and God
mixed up? “In that day shall messengers go forth from me in ships
to make the careless Ethiopians
afraid, and great pain shall come upon them, as in the day of Egypt;
for, lo, it cometh.”—Ezekiel xxx, 9.

Just think of it. France, with
wealth, strength and experience in
colonial warfare, all superior to that
of Italy, spent four years or thereabouts in conquering the Riffs of
Morocco, a people smaller, weaker
and more accessible than the Ethiopians,

Mussolini seems to be in a pretty
bad way. He is apparently acting
on the old political doctrine: When
in trouble at home start a foreign
war—in execution of which Napoleon III started the Franco-Prussian
War in 1870. Italy seems to be on
the verge of collapse. A week. ago
$40,000,000 was extracted from the
gold reserve to meet outstanding
debts. Since a war of any great
duration would put an almost insupportable strain on the country’s resources, it looks as if Mussolini’s
goose is pretty well cooked in any
sense. His only chance is a short,
snappy, and very successful little
war.

The

 

sensation of the last few
as the Social Credit victory
in Alberta. It just goes to show that
a movement with a real popular appeal can beat the old party machines
at their own game, It is going to
be an interesting Federal election.

 

What is this Stevens party, anyway? <A Conservative wolf in ReIncipient
Fascism? Or our only hope for
four years to come? It is rather nice
to see a change of heart by a supposedly soulless politician, but it
does seem rather peculiar to hear a
man condemn and seek to remedy
the very abuses to ‘which he presumably contributed as a member of the
Bennett cabinet. Don’t misunderstand us; we do not mean to sneer
at Mr. Stevens’ aims with regard to
sweatshop conditions, etc., but we
are rather confused by it all.

 

Less than a century ago, college
students took a malicious pleasure
in chasing their professors with
guns and axes, and stoning them,

burning down faculty houses and ~

commmitting many other impolite
acts. A few playful lads at Princeton about 1850 shot a cannon

through the door of the room of an
unpopular teacher, narrowly missing
him and his wife. At Harvard a
student took a somewhat violent
dislike to a professor who had
plucked him in Math. 1, and is said
to have chased him around the cam
|pus with an axe.

Even at Dalhousie, barely twentyfive years ago, there were nice little
fights between town and gown. The
bell in the old tower of the Forrest
Building was stolen, and a cow was
found one morning in the president’s
office. As recently as four years ago
things were a little more lively than
at present — moving picture shows
were crashed, windows smashed, and
freshmen thoroughly hazed. Now

And they call it Progress!

 

One big trouble with us in the
Maritimes is that we are very much
too provincial; it is natural, but it
is a pity. For instance, if we think
about the coming election at all,
which is very improbable, we think
only in terms of Liberals and Conservatives and, perhaps, Reconstructionists. We forget that in the Wesern provinces—the part of the country which will probably have the
final say—the problem is not nearly
as simple. Not only are there Tories,
Grits and Stevensites, but there are
also, and by no means to be sneezed
at, the Social Creditors and the
C. C. F.’s, not to mention Labour,
United Farmers, Progressives, Independents, United Front, Communists,
and eyen an antediluvian Technocrat
in the constituency of Athabasca.

CE

  
   

rem
— OO

ee

 

rit SS

 

  
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
  

i)
ra

ad . ,
i 7
cal

ee,
aa...

ae ee

 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 

new movement. rd
ready has ridiculed the feasibility

“Music doth calm the scu! 2™!
- Stir the mind to a marvelous
\ pi bey ;

‘ing to acquire a radio. The last cer
sus, investigated by the “Major”
has shown that students now sta
awake ’til the wee sma’ hours of
the morning. The university, ‘tis
rumoured, in order to give impetus,

contemplates distributing radios to
those unfortunate students without

one.
Not all are in accord with this
Carl Stoddard al
of a Dal band on the football field;
he’s afraid, when they start to blast,
he will make an end-run to his pathology notes. A telegram from Bob
McClellan states he is willing to
trade his pet alcove at the Med.
dance for a furnished desk and an
ash-tray, while Basil has promised
to substitute Starlings for the dance
programs. Tickets, minus the premimum, will be three music notes.
Enid Johnson is emulating a picolo
player with such grace when she
blows her nose that several of her
classmates have been fleeing to their
books. Some are inquiring if she
plays other wind instruments. Even
Teddy was at a loss to account for
the sudden disappearance of the
group when he struck a tymponitic
note. Dr. Holland has exclusively
sounded his recently improvised

eardiac-triplets and crescendoes for
the third year class and has prom
ised to complete the “Allegro” before Christmas exams.

OBSERVATORY

(By Observer)

    

 
 
   

che .urat.er vacation at an
end, the campus is commencing to
be filled with sounds of that aimless

; oy ‘cal students at Dal are siziv | discussion of vague generalities. So

far, it has been confined, for the
most part, to discussion of courses
to be taken, sport to be enjoyed,
and professors to be endured.

Soon, and we hope it will be so,
conversation will be turning to matters rateh rof national and international interest, with those stallilons
of the campus, the Law students,
holding forth with all the old legal
inveracity that we know so well.

No more immediate topic should
be of greater interest than that of
the implications emerging from the
Ethiopian dispute. A year or two
ago, a student forum was held, with
the subject for discussion, “Would
Dalhousians, if called upon, fight for
King and Country?” The decision
was then vague, in spite of local
newspaper reports. We wonder
what the answer would be today.

 

Many and varied are the comments
which are being encored again this
year by older students concerning
Dalhousie’s decreasing registration.
Rumor seems to suggest a lack of
so-called front-page publicity on the
part of the University, and we wonder if the tradition of Dalhousie dignity warrants such drastic reductions in numbers. In particular, the
Commerce students seem to feel
rather keenly that the Department
of Commerce is being soft-pedalled.
Why not give the axiom of “lower
fees, larger numbers” a trial in a
course which, we understand, is the

The 5th year students at the Grace| only one of its kind in the Mari
t no longer bewail the long stay there ;

—with such pleasant music reaching

%,

their ears. But the monotony is be
times.

 

The reduction in income to the

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

A Different Angle

 

Mrs. Reynolds had been awaiting
a fine day for over a week now.
And here it was at last. Her eyes
brightened as she wiped her few
lunch dishes. She looked out the
kitchen window contentedly at the
sun-shadows on the streets, at the
patches of light on the people’s
faces. “It’s just the right kind of
a day. There’s some tang in the air
and it will bring color to my cheeks.
And she laughed a little remembering how when she was young she had
always wanted to be pale, disdaining
the rich color that had flowed in her
cheeks. Now she craved it, patting
her withered skin with cold water
every morning and evening. She
lingered over the dishes, liking the
feel of the soft warm water on her
hands and the small exercise of
walking back and forth to the cupbaord. She moved freely. “It
doesn’t matter if you are old, you
can always believe you are young.
I don’t think anyone is ever old to
himself, anyway.”

Her thoughts returned to the subject that had been occupying them
all the week. “Two new hats. One
for good and one for wear. But the
one for wear will be just as smart as
the one for good. It’s a pity they
both have to be black, but I suppose
I can’t—it’s only two years—oh well,
black makes my skni look white.”
She went upstairs to her room and
each step sang, “Two new hats. Two
new hats”. She dressed meticulously
and as she put on her coat, she

 

INTRODUCING
PROF. FLETCHER

Students who have braved the elements and in their itinerance happened to wander up to Studley campus would have noticed great activity on the gridiron. Dotting the
field are groups of men clad in short
pants and sweaters that seem ridiculously inadequate on the stormridden hill tops of Studley. Directing the activities of these gladiators
are coaches Professor “Big Jim”
McDonald and Professor Fletcher,

 

Carthy, Rugby coach of yesteryear.
who is now back at Caledonia.
“Big Jim” needs no introduction.

boxing, basketball and Rugby precedes him.

Professor Fletcher, a new arrival
at Dalhousie, has already established
himself in the hearts of the Black
and Gold Ruggers. Particularly admired for his keen understanding of
human nature and his experience at
the game, the men carefully adher
to his suggestions. As early as 1923
he played on the “fifteen” at University College, London; again at
Camridge in 1926 with the Sidney
Sussex College team. From then
until 1932 he starred as a forward
with the “Wanderers”, an amateur
Rugby club in England.

Prof. Fletcher, new professor of
Education, has unflinchingly given
of his time to help rebuild that
mighty Black and Gold football team
of former years, irrespepctive of

NS fii aa pemgnatinenatsfl litical mie miei

realized suddenly it wasn’t so much | work done preparing his lectures.

that she wanted a new hat as she
wanted to talk to someone, to be
the centre of attention, t obe praised
and her taste pampered. She found
that she was looking forward with
a real pleasure to the long discussions with Miss Arnold, to the attentive bending of her head, to the
sympathetic light in her eyes. She
remembered the practised hands ad
|

fey? student body is indebted to him,

and his team-mates laud him for inculeating in them a true love for the
game.

Dalhousie’s Moot Court

 

Centred around the Law School are

y fan ginning to telll; they are demanding | University leads us to speak of anaga other department of the University

 

 

justing the hats, and the feeling of | many land-marks of former days,

who have replaced old John Mc-| text for this week, we of the Dental team, except one, are back and it is

Fame in the annals of Dalhousie|Dalhousians in particular will learn} weather man did not see

Friday, October 4, 1935

 

/

s

 

Don't carry bulky shoes down town

WE CALL AND DELIVER
AT LOWER PRICES

CAPITOL SHOE REPAIR

44 - 46 SACKVILLE STREET

TOOTHSOME
TOPICS

The Dental School so long quiescen
Is now alive, revived, resuscent. oe
And with the above splurge as the | equally divided.

Just Phone bB-8566

 

 

TENNIS NOTES

Tennis opened with a bang as the
undergraduate clashed with the
Alulmni on the Carleton courts, the
result of which left the honors about
All of last year’s

 

School launch into an era of newly |expected that the team will be pracstimulated animation . tically the same as last year.

At last the world at large and| It is to be regretted that the
his way
all the mysteries, intricacies and|clear to hang out the sun instead

problems associated with the daily|of that rain cloud which brought
routine of the school. Nothing will| disastrous results to the committee’s

be omitted. We shall endeavour to| Plans for a match against the Lunoutwinchell Winchell and  outflick,enburg team on Saturday last. The
Heflick. match had to be postponed in
The boys got off to a good start. | definitely.

A snappy meeting of the Dental| The proposed match with King’s
Society disclosed the following facts: | was also called off .

That Ken Cougel’s popularity stood} There was a rumor going round
him in good stead, for he was re-| quring the summer that Dalhousie
elected President of the Dental So-| was going to have one or more asciety for the second consecutive year.| phalt courts built. It is feared that
Good luck to you, Ken, you'll need it.! the rumor had no foundation of fact.

Vice-Pres.—Mike Disick. Last fall the final match against the

Sec.-Treas.—Charlie Guzetta. New Brunswick champs had to be

Athletic Manager—Clarence Egan.|left unfinished because the courts

Rep. to D.A.A.C.—Jack Victor. were too wet to play on. If the
courts had been composed of asphalt
Question for the Week: instead of clay this unsatisfactory

What Dental student has been|ending to the tennis season might
nicknamed “The Firechief” because | have been avoided.
of his habit of getting up every| Professor Mercer deserves much
morning at 6 a.m. just to build a fire | credit for putting tennis on the map
so that his roomie “Cueballl Looie’’| 3+ Dalhousie. Each year the team
won't be cold? profits by his experience, advice and,
in a more material way, by his assistance in conveying the players to
| the Acadia and Mount Allison courts.

Tiger’s Band to
. | This year he is again to be seen
Be At F irst Game around and on the courts looking the f

players over and playing the odd

d |game himself. The choice of the
Dalhousie’s band will be in atten | team is largely in his hands and

 

 

 

  

cy i (ea A i s

ier a radio or a shorter interne
which is to a slight extent, at least, omniscience as she looked into the

as "proven | himself a dependent of that income — the
es of the V. G. Hos-| Library. |
inging the gong for

   
   
  
  

 

  

\e adve this| The tying up of funds has placed
- wave the Students’ Study Serv-|@ serious check on library growth
ee eae ¥, ague has been started. lLec-|this fall, and the library maintenen tures are to be sung—nurses taught ; ance has suffered in consequence.
Pike Bes ee dance—and notes typed on music; There is no need, or there should
pages, * paper. Dr. R. P. shall be asked to|be none, to stress the importance of
wield the baton, while Drs. Atlee and the laboratory of the Arts student,
Gosse hit a few discords. Tutoring |in the life of the University. This
ee ‘will be offered as soon as the ham-|has before now been effectively em. mers in the piano in the Munroe|Phasized. However, while remem--—-s #Room are fixed. Hugh Christie is bering its importance, we should
; blaming the difficulties in 2nd year like you to consider that the library,
ae his bad ear for music. too, is a living organism in the life
‘Mrs. Pope is alive to all changes of the College. It requires normal
| and has added another band to her|srowth. Allow that growth to beae. typewriter, and now allows whistling |come stunted or diseased and its
| in the library. The faculty is as yet effect upon the main body is as
a little disinclined, so the Medical malicious as the same happening in
Society has arranged to have Port- the human body.

 
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
 

ice

i eee
' ~
mirrors, turning from one side to
another. “I can wear hats,” she said
to herself. “I always could—any
hat looks well. But *Im not going to
be in a hurry. I’m going to try all
the black ones. I’ll ean back in the
chair and pretend it really matters.
And it does really matter.” Then
something inside her said, “But it
doesn’t, you know. Jim’s dead and
you have no one to care what you
look like.” She put her hand over
her mouth and closed her eyes. The
realization that she was alone pounded on her mind with the steady beat
of a hammer.

She went out of her house, not
even conscious that she was going,
But the faint perfume from the autumn leaves freed the senses that

 

dance at the first football game of
the season, under the direction of
Johnnie Morrison, well-known piano
man,

This band, which was brought to
life by efforts of the Dalhousie
Gazette, and which is now well on its
way for its first performance tomorrow, will be well up to the standard set in 1929, and will mark another milestone in the new era of
football and athletic support for the
various teams of the college.

customs which trace their origin to
the time when today’s Great and
Near Great were but fledglings in
the law, and usuages and ceremonies
which have become almost a ritual to
the present-day members of the Law
Society. And listed as chief among
them is the Moot Court.

This judicial body, which but patronizingly glances at the time honored doctrines of Common Law, and
gives but little reverence to the
|illogical intermixture of natural
justice and legal fictions of Equity,
sits with all the pomp of a Star
Chamber. Before its Bar are pleaded,
and settled, issues of fact which the
Keepers of the “Pig-Sty” concoct,
and points of law which even the
Privy Council leave untouched.

It is purely democratic in its or
 

ee eS Sessa

DANCE MUSIC
Laurie Hart |
And His Orchestra.

Call B-6489 Halifax

will probably be announced in the
next week’s Gazette.

For a while things looked down in
the mouth for the Dentistry Department, but now everything is lined
with American silver.

 

GAUVIN

AND

GENTZEL

Photographers to

oS ee

had been caught by the pain of lone- | @anization. As one’s knowledge, real
liness, and as she walked briskly | of feigned, receives the official sanc
 

DALHOUSIE

 

 

 

noy play for them. The Ist and 2nd

From our observations, even so

 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
    
  
     
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
    

years have been allowed that half|early in the term, the students are
hour and have decided for singing| giving the library their support.
lessons in praise. Dr. Young regrets| Will the University give them the
that he has but fifteen minutes to|C0-operation needed for complete
give for singing. success ?

Dugan, recently of McGill, says he
ean’t go out for football because his
radio needs repair.

The “Major” is to be complimented
for lifting the torpor that prevented
so many of us from doing splendidly.
It remains that the only thing wrong
at Dalhousie is the need for a bigger
and better Students’ Study Service
a (S.S.S.) plus a loud speaker in the
a exam room with Cab Calloway’s
- music.

P.S.—The 8rd years wish to know
to what tunes does Chester Stewart
study.

What can a certain anatomy
demonstrator do socially and very
professionally ?

It is proper at this time to dedicate a few words to our worthy
‘Dental friends. We see them in the
preclinical classes staring blankly at
the erudite (we hope) professor or

‘i is casting envious glances at their ases. tute classmates—totally blind to the
Ee, littleness in the great things that
they are. (You can’t insult me—

I’m too ignorant).

Joe Gallant should be praised for

his journalistic trends. He spent all
- gummer writing for a newspaper,

“The Anaemia”, because of its poor
__ eireulation. He consulted strongarm Russell McClellan (Ditch-Dig_ ger Supreme), who helped him pre‘pare a routine stimulant.

 

And now that we have rambled so
ar, may we conclude with the salutation that is now a bye-word among
students all over the country, “Glad
to see you back! Did you have a
good summer?”

 

‘Our College Home-(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3)

ber of dates they had last week,
might well be used in debating,
sports, glee-club, or any one of the
sadly neglected activities on the
campus.

For their own benefit will the Shirreff Hall girls please tilt their noses
downward just enough to get a
square look at the situation. Mayh«
then they will agree to forget about
their own selfish, petty interests, get
enthused about college activities, and
give the Alma Mater some real sup
port.
EE

FRESHIE-SOPH DANCE
PROMISES TO BE SUCCESS
With definite plans already made,

everything looks very promising for
the big dance of the fall season. The
Freshie-Soph always marks the beginning of a series of similar social
functions. This year the program
that has been arranged will set pace that subsequent functions will
have difficulty in overshadowinc.

down the street, the slow, regular
betas of her heart and the sturdy
lightness of her footsteps filled her
with contentment. “I’m like a child
going to my first party”, she thought
as she went into Miss Arnold’s shop.
“Oh, Mrs. Reynolds, I was wondering when you were coming in. Do
sit down—here. A black one, is it?
Two—how nice. I have just the
thing.”

Mrs. Reynolds leaned back in the
chair. Already the obsequious atmosphere of the place was invading
her and she revelled in it. “I think
I’ll stay until it’s time for tea. Miss
Arno'd won’t mind. She likes me.”
She looked up graciously as the woman approached laden with hats. “I
do hope your mother is betters?”
“Oh, yes, Mrs. Reynolds, she is,
you a little dash with out being obthank you. That looks nice—it gives
vious.” She tilted her head, “Yes,
it does look nice. But I’m going to
be fussy today. “It doesn’t do to be
too easily pleased,” but Mrs. Reynolds moticed that her eyes looked
suddenly anxious and that she looked at the two young girls who had
just entered. “Excuse me—sit down
won’t you? I won’t be long—” coming back to Mrs. Reynolds—“Mary

is ill today, and I’m all alone.”
“Then I'll hurry.” “No, no, take
you time. “But I must”. The light

left her face and she did not care
which hat she bougrt.

She chose two blindly, afraid that
M’ss Arnold would see the tears in
her eyes,

 

of the Board that
Christmas and May, one passes from
Junior Counsel, to Senior Counsel,
plus the added distinction wf a K.C.,
and then to the Bench. Each member of the Society comes before it,
first in his first year, and again in
his second year. And from the Members of the second year, the five who
have presented the best arguments
are selected to argue a special case
before three Members of the Supreme Court of Nova Scotia for the
highest honor conferred in the Law
School—a place on the Smith Shield.

The Court sits every Monday and
Thursday at 2 p.m., with the exception of the present week, when it
meets on Friday at the same hour in

| tion meets at

Dance Programmes

Due to Birks association with the L. G.
Balfour Company, a
new and unusual series
of Dance Programmes |||
is now available, and |}!
at extremely moderate
prices.

Invitations, etc. |

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

 

Diamond Merchants

 

| Barrington St.
the Moot Court Room in the Law

School. To these sessions, the members of the Law Society extend their
invitation and welcome to all the
Students of the University,
| especially to the pre-law students.

 

 

 

 

CASINO

| Saturday, Monday, Tuesday
The Screen’s First

Class ’38 Elects
Council Candidates

Amateur Hour Picture
Every Night
At Eight

 

Fred Barton and John Mullane
were chosen as the candidates for

the vacant position of representative with
of Class ’88 yesterday at the first
meeting of the season of the class. GEORGE RAFT
Voting was c'ose.
Plans were laid for the Freshie ALICE FAYE

| Soph party, which will be held at the
‘Nova Scotian Hotel on October 18.

 

 

 

PATSY KELLY |

UNIVERSITY

Special Rates to

STUDENTS
24 Hour Finishing

Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B-6992

ee

 

 

 

TODAY, SAT., MON.

MARION DAVIES
DICK POWELL
“PAGE MISS
GLORY”
with
PAT O’BRIEN
MARY ASTOR
FRANK McHUGH
EXTRA! EXTRA!

MAJOR BOWES
Amateur Theatre of the Air!

 
