 
 

°
~ ” o, +8 - ee rue
* , - “« ? ‘ + Ae ho
‘ .@ q
e
:
§
s
8
;
c
§
‘
ie
,
W)
}
{
r
!
'
f
4
j ’
a
'
:
)
:
:
j ,
; :
vit
1 f Dnt
= | ‘
r he
| mT ine
2 ‘ u = p awn ~ on
i $i 7
= fri oe
7 Wes At
| ire
E! alata
q a it,
4 Fb ! ‘
=
E a, :
? ey ' :
nee ‘
cae ete ih
y's
an 7
ae% 4
4 ye
vt U..

me am = or
pee seat SF
ts i : z raehe 2 eh a » ny el Pith ity ”

i
Te

—
*
Pest =
=

ae 365
oy ‘a

tor Se

ey ‘,
. 2.

ee = 2 alt

Vel. LIV.

The Dalhousie Gazette

—Founpep 1869—~
Issuep Weexty, One Dortar Per: Yen.

 

Business Manager - - J, R, NICHOLSON, B. A.

n 77 Queen Street.

Editor + # « « + = ©, BF, BOWES, B, A.

jak dibsiirieiaiid bia hiss tentials “wsbiiate
to the Business Manager,

 

Associate Editors

| Euren Burns Miss Manex Morrison

 
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
 
 
   

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 29, 1922

 

 

In Barrie’s whimsical story of Peter
Pan, the great point about that delightful and mysterious boy was that he
never grew up. He remained to the
oo te he remains without end, age
changeless, the same Peter Pan.

Now there was much of this quality of
essness and timelessness about the
‘ounder and Dean of the Dental College of Dalhousie University. He never old. True, in contradistinction
to Sat professional men of his own
his brother’s family, he was sometimes spoken of as “‘old Dr. Wood:
i os But it was a misnomer, felt to
be so by any one who used it for convenience’ sake. When he passed from
among us he had attained his seventieth

last thing it would. occu?
‘io by about ‘int we that he was old.

a one er meet him without being struck by his alertness of mind, the
almost boyish eagerness and vitality of

spirit. And the more one knew

his
him, the more these qualities amanened

  
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

His interest in life was full, his
wide, his grasp of things comisive and tenacious, his reaction

re ndarde, : a

: rf
ae To oie

—

aa “ae vite . a |
a ‘pile ov

Peet a ee ce is

t, anc # jt my be
aoe oY a rial « cA ch h sea

4
Pi

 

No. 11

tistry at Dalhousie was hie magnum
opus. It was the work of his life. He
not only founded the college, he poured
his very life blood into it. From the
beginning to the end of his connection
with it, it was the centre around which
his thoughts, his ambitions, his aspirations, revolved continually. To make
it what it might be, to oak. it what it
should be, . to make it equal to, if not
the superior of, the leading professional schools in Canada, that was his daily,
hourly effort. It was a great thing, it
was really an. immense thing, for the
profession of Dental Surgery not only
in these maritime provinces, |

throughout Canada, that a man of Dr,
Woodbury’s character and calibre, of
his high professional standards and
of his critical and wide-visioned and
self-sacrificing insistence on the best,
and nothing short of the best, should
have founded and moulded the character of Dalhousie College of Dentistry,
With what joy, with what pride, with
what deep thankfulness, he saw it develop in standing, in efficiency, in
equipment, in public confidence, from
year to year, And in the very last
week of his life, perhaps the climax of
his satisfaction was reached in the visit of the Carnegie Fund Commission :

rts; in personally een ce
r inspection the coll its
artix Rierite and ie ‘the a ee:

‘4 a 4
at i bi
tL ih as ; -—
. nee YY
i

   

=

  

is eomething 4 eae es %

hte . hte
Vt ak:
» ee

 
 

 

The name of Woodbury willl ever be
indissolubly associated with the Faculty
of Dentistry at Dalhousie University.

Most undertakings which have proved successful in this world have, in

their earlier stages, been the outcome of
the activity of one man; and to this the
Dental Faculty is no exception. The
late “Dr. Frank’’ was the virtual
founder of it, and to the hour of his
death the chief source of the power of
its maintenance,

My acquaintance with Dr. Woodbury began very shortly after I came to
the University in 1911; but we were
soon to be more closely associated when,
on the death of Dr. A. W. H. Lindsay,
I took over the duties of Secretary of
the Faculty of Medicine.

From 1915 onwards, there was nothing affecting the policy. and details of
the management of the Dental Faculty
which Dr. Woodbury did not discuss
with me in the fullest way.

One might almost say he was impatient to see his Faculty grow: keen
and energetic himself he was unhappy
when delays prevented him realizing
his life-object—the growth in strength
and reputation of the whole profession
of Dentistry in these provinces.

One of the most striking things about
Dr. Woodbury was his youthfulness of
mind, his freshness of outlook on the
world in general. There was nothing
senile about his mental attitude. He
never seemed quite satisfied to believe
that things could not be improved; and
he certainly did not act as though he
was convinced that human nature was
so incurably lazy or incorrigibly bad
that it was not worth while troubling
to improve it.

His whole mental attitude was the
reverse of this, it was sanguine; he
believed in trying to get the best out
of people; his whole outlook was the
exact opposite of blasé. There was
nothing either in body or mind that suggested the old man in Dr. Woodbury;
he'was alert and bright to the end; and
the end came as an interruption to activity rather than as the conclusion of a
life’s work. But a lingering, last ill
ness with its enforced abstention from
active work would have been very irksome to him, so that every one felt it
appropriate that he had died “in ‘harness.’

He did, however, live to see the
stamp on the seal of ae

Behool., Bonet: the |

     

THE LATE DR. WOODBURY

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

the Dental School in the most impartial
manner. At this gathering these gentlemen expressed their satisfaction at
the work the School was doing, and in
other ways intimated publicly their admiration for the way in which it was utilizing its limited resources. This dinner was on a Monday. Dr. Woodbury
himself made an important speech on
this occasion; by the following Monday
he was dead; he had lived just long
enough to see the fruition of his labours
—finis coronat opus. ,

In a sense the success of the Dental
School and that of the dental profession were a ‘‘hobby’’ with Dr. Woodbury. Not that he had no interests
outside of his profession—for he had
several—but all his spare time was given to the furtherance of those two interests.

No one other than he could possibly
have been the first Dean; and this
Deanship was with him no empty honour but an opportunity to supervise
every detail of the working of the Faculty. Dr. Woodbury was a master of

detail; but his mastery of detail did not
make him forget the policy of seizing
every chance to increase the use
fulness of the School whose _ success

was so near his. heart.

The one great interest of Dr. Woodbury’s life outside his work was the religious education of the young through
the agency of the Sunday School. In
this and in all evangelical activity he
was eminently successful; for his earnestness had no trace of bigotry, and he
was charitable without any lowering
of his standards.

His serious view of life never made
him a dull companion; for his appreciation of humor was quite keen, and his
judgments of men and things were never lacking in penetration.

Dr. Woodbury was a lover of the
country and of its quiet joys; he had
his fruit-farm in the Annapolis Valley
from which he derived much pleasure.

It was delightful to take a walk with
him through the woods and note how
genuinely he enjoyed what Nature,
pure and simple, had to give—the blue
skies, the bright sunshine, the smell of
the earth after rain, the running brooks
and the summer breezes.

D. Fraser Harris.

THE PASSING OF A LEADER

The ‘removal of Dr. Frank Woodbury, who for many years has been a
leader, and at the time of his death
probably the most dominating personality in the Dental Profession in Canada,
cannot fail to be most profoundly felt.

He lived in an important and eventful period in the history of his profession and played a very prominent part
in moulding and directing its development. In his own province the force

of his example, his enthusiasm, ripe experience and sane judgment be most

sorely missed,

Perhaps the most dominating trait
of his character was his sense of
responsibility. To him life was a
trust and he was responsible to the
Giver of Life as to what he did with it,
how he used it. His religion was no
frothing of emotion. It a fundamental , a root from which evolved those ‘‘ Fruits of the Spirit’’ to form
a character which pect

power and efficacy of education gave
direction to his effort, a path to his activities. In the Church he found expression through the Sunday School.
In his profession the Dental College.

We may chronicle or catalogue’ his
more or less objective achievements as
‘‘Mile stones by the way’’ but it may be
questioned whether they rank in importance with the subtle influence of the
example of his life. He has stamped
ari impress upon the College which
ripening into tradition will be felt as
long as the College exists, and in grateful acknowledgement of what he has
done, and of what he was, we lay our
tribute at the feet of our esteemed and
revered late Dean Woodbury.

F. W. Ryan, D. D. 8.

March 21, 1922. |

The Man and His Work
(Continued from Page 3)

 

 

 

of personal loss.

of the best. ght

“@HH DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

‘‘My first feeling on learning of the
death of Dr. Frank Woodbury, was one
The passing of one
with whom I had been so closely associated and whom I had come to admire so
greatly as a man and as a citizen, and
whose friendship and esteem I valued
highly, brought a feeling of sadness
which I know many hundreds of men
will share with me. His going will leave
a distinct gap in the ranks of those in
Halifax who go about doing good. Sercive was no mere catchword in his case,

‘‘To Dalhousie University and to its
Dental Faculty particularly, the loss of
Dr. Woodbury is a very heavy blow. As
the Dean of the Faculty of Dentistry, he
has been a great source of strength in
carrying on of that department, both
as a teacher and as an administrator.
Without detracting in any way from
what is due his colleagues, one can say
that the starting of a Dental College in
Halifax sprung from the inspiration and
vision of Dr. Woodbury and that its
rather phenomenal success is greatly
due to his untiring energy and labor in
its behalf. To it he sacrificed many of
his personal interests, and even him
PRESIDENT MACKENZIE’S APPRECIATION

 

self. No one outside the University
knows how much of his time and thought
and strength he gave to building up of
the School which he started himself in
the service. The time he gave to it had
to be stolen from the busy days of a
professional practice. But it was a labor
of love, for he saw that the work was
to be done and felt that he must do his
part.

‘‘Simple and unassuming by nature,
he did not do his work for praise, but
he had it in full measure, especially
a week ago on the occasion of the visit
to the University of five dental experts
who came to study the standing of the
Dental School, for the Carnegie Foundation. There is no doubt that at that time
Dr. Woodbury overtaxed his strength,
but it was like him to not consider
himself when service was the alternative. His name will be forever associated with the Dental School, which is his
monument. ’’

Presmpent A. Stantey MacKenzie.
Dalhousie University
Feb. 6th, 1922.

DR. FRANK V. WOODBURY

In APPRECIATION.

Frank V. Woodbury attended classes
at Mount Allison for several years. As
a student his keen intellect and fine
social powers were recognized and SP

preciated by both students and te

ers.

The pees of ‘this school days was
| than oe arent ae - * oe
ae ee spec or
arsfeastoa. ainstaking and exact he
was never satisfied with an pi

baci St 1 fol
his wna Bs ann

 
       
  
 
 
 
  

 

associated with him on the Dalhousie
staff.

Important as has been his contribution to scientific and accurate dental
surgery, great as has been his contribution to human health and well being he

will be best known by his work as a
social and religious leader. As a Sunday School Superintendent he carried
into his Christan work the same scrupulous attention ‘to detail, the same ambition to bring to his work the best possible in method and execution that had
characterized his business career. His
ability as a leader in Christian work
among young people was recognized by

the International Sunday School Assopee bo = a

ointment to important

 

As a public speaker his exceptional |

ability was appreciated by all who had

an opportunity to hear him and his outstanding genius for putting the important truths he had to utter in clear, concise and yet bright and original language kept him in demand for platform
work on all important occasions.

It was, however, as a man that he.
won the love and confidence of all who
knew him. His transparent honesty,

his uncompromising devotion to all that
was highest and best in civic or national life, his outlook with clear eyes and
unclouded vision upon the values
that lie beyond, his philosophy of life
which led him to make a part of himself all the things that are ‘‘honest and
just, and true, and lovely, and of good
report’’ secured for him the fragrant
memory which will be cherished by successive generations of those who have
a better city and a better country to live
in because of his influence.

B. C. Borpen,
Mt. Allison University.

In Memoriam

Sleep, tired heart, and may thy rest be
deep, 3

Untroubled by the cares of this sad
world;

What carest thou for trouble and wil
strife,

Or how our little sphere is onward

swirled

Through space? The springtime flowers creep .

About the places that you used to love,
but thou

Art gone; and peaceful be thy sleep.

Wake, faithful heart, and waking, may
thy eyes
Rest on a world more fair by far than
this ;
We mourn, but thou, thou hast no cause
to weep, —

For thou art ever mounting ey the
skies

Seeking and finding Everlasting bliss:
And we will ever keep thy memory here
Under the sky, where sun and winds

have Kissed. ae

 
ST: A ST TT, MTN

cine iteelliaahatindlil

FET MT TMT BE ETP aa TE
7

THE DALHOUSIN GAZETTE

TRIBUTES OF THE PRESS

 

 

The Passing of
A Christian
Gentleman

 

The following tribute was but one of
oy such paid our late dean by the
ress:

‘There are few citizens of Halifax
whose death would be more sincerely
mourned or would leave a larger gap in
the life of the community than Dr. Frank
Woodbury, to whom the call came so
suddenly on Saturday night. Although
he had never held a public office or had
taken an active part in public affairs,
few men in Halifax were more widely
known, and none was more highly respected by all sections of the community
than Dr. Woodbury. Coming to Halifax
thirty-eight years ago to take up the
practice of dentistry in partnership with
his late lamented brother, Dr. Hibbert
Woodbury, he has been for many years
by right of character and service, one of
our foremost citizens. He was quiet
and unassuming in his demeanor, and
yet he possessed a personality that was
strong as well as sincere and wholesome, coupled with an enthusiasm for
all things that were true, pure, lovely,
and of good report, that made him a man
among men. His was a sterling character which not only commanded honor
and respect among his fellow-men; it
carried conviction of the essential goodness of the man. |

Although he was widely interested
in life and affairs, Dr. Woodbury devoted most of the energy and time that
could be spared from a bitsy vocation

to two branches of service—the religous

education of young people in the Sunday School and the raising of the- standards of the dental profession by the establishment of a Dental School. In the
first, to which he devoted a life-time of

y, he was a recognized expert in
Sunday School teaching methods and
one of the best equipped leaders of the
International Sunday School Association. His work in this field has been influential for good all over Nova Scotia,
and far beyond his native Province, for
many years. In his own field of work

he was not only the Dean of the Dental
Sch at Dalhousie, but ey the

  
    
  

» profession in the Province,
en one of ‘the founders and

 

tal Board since 1891. As practically
the initiator of the School and Dean of
the Dental Faculty at Dalhousie University, Dr. Woodbury, both as teacher
and director, did a great and valuable
public service for which his name should
always be honored by his conferes. He
threw himself into the work of building
up the School and carrying out the
courses with untiring zeal and enthusiasm, and the high compliment recently
paid to the efficiency of the School by the
investigators of the Carnegie Foundation testifies how competently his work
was planned and effectively executed.
The. Dental School will remain, as
President MacKenzie says, a monument
to Dr. Woodbury, but far better than
this, he leaves behind him as a precious
legacy the fragrant memory of an honored name, a noble character and a life
spent in good deeds. Verily a Christian
gentleman has gone out of our life.
Morning Chromecle, Feb. 6th, 1922.

eth ever. The memory of the just is
blessed. It is an inspiration and an incentive to nobler living and more unselfish service. To live in the hearts
and minds of those whom one has enriched and helped is not to die. There
is an immortality of influence and of
fragrant memories of true worth—such
an immortality Dr. Frank Woodbury
by his life and character has won.
| Evening Mail.

 

DR. WOODBURY’S
LIFE STORY

Dr. Woodbury was born at Wilmot
Springs, King’s County, January 26,
1853, and was educated at Mount Allison University, and later at Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery, from
which he graduated in 1878. He first

 

_ established his. practice in Babylon,

A Life of Service

in the passing ot Dr. Krank Woodbury, tialirax has lost a great. and a
good man—a citizen whose life and
character was of inestimable worth to
the community. Modest and unassuming, foremost in all good works, the
motto and watchword of his life being
best conveyed’ in the one word “‘service’’Dr. Woodbury’s memory will
long be cherished and his influence will
long be felt. For many years he devoted both time and talents to the enrichment of ,the life of the young people in
the city.. He spent himself in the service
of others. The Y. M. C. A, owes a great
debt of obligation to his life and labors
in connection with that organization.

 

The Sunday school forces of Halifax |

can all pay grateful tribute to his work

and influence along the line of the reliaes training of the young. His greatest legacy is the influence of his genuine

New York, but in 1884, in partnership
with his brother, the late Dr. Hibbert,
who died in 1914,, removed to Halifax
and began a practice in this city, becoming one of the most. widely known.dental
firms in the Province.

He was one of the founders of the
Dalhousie Dental College, and without
him, said President Mackenzie, it would
never have been established, and he was
at the time of his death Dean of the college, and interested in its work and development. He was also a director of
the School for the Deaf of this city.

His able and forceful personality
won recognition in his appointment to
prominent offices in various dental professional groups and organizations.
member of the National Den
      
  
  
   
  
 
    
    
 
      
   

   

 

) | it whil
= i 5
Py any
ares ams fee |
“¥%
| :
+ hd

 

Grafton Street Methodist Chureh
Monday, February 6, 1922.

‘

 

“T cannot say, and I will not say,
that he is dead—he is just away.’’ As
these words of Rev. Dr. George J. Bond
concluded the eloquent and impressive
eulogies and tributes paid to the late
Dr. Frank Woodbury at the memorial
service at Grafton Street Methodist
Church last night, the deep breathing
silence of the audience which filled the
edifice was eloquent response. The service was under the auspices of the authorities of Dalhousie University, of the
Dental College of which Dr, Woodbury
was the founder and Dean. Co-operat
ing with them were ehureh officials with

whom Dr. Woodbury had been associated during his long and distinguished
eareer as a Sunday School Leader.

There was a simple beauty about the
service which reflected the spirit and
character of the man in whose memory
it was being held. There were only two
addresses, the first by President Mackenzie of Dalhousie University, and the
second by Rev. Dr. B. C. Borden, President of Mount Allison University, while
Rev. Dr. Bond, pastor of the church,
expressing his regrets and apologies of
Mr. Edmund G. Smith, for not being
able to be present to represent Brunswick Street Methodist Church, speaking
under most evident emotion, and paying
tribute to the quiet influence of the late
Doctor upon his life, and influence which
had begun in student days and lasted
until death, thanked God for that infiuence.

Three hymns were sung. It was when
the restful melody and words of ‘‘The
Sands of Time Are Sinking, The Dawn
of Heaven Breaks,’’ that an ineffable
peace and calm seemed to pervade the
church. The service elosed by the ren
  
    
 

   
  
  

March”’ the audience standing

silence, broken only by the light beatng of the rain upon the windows, heard
reen the cadences: of the matchless

  
 

notwithstanding the most

| ondi 3 — weather, ve are

7 ge number 0 ea
‘ner ere of life. The casket
‘eontair ly of Doctor Wood‘bury, was

  

   

Ny ‘
% ,
7
3 =e . =
t j i

   

  
   

THE MEMORIAL SERVICE

laced at the foot of the pul. space between the a

n of the Board of Govnona | "ty" TSeILYV
Ls F ; fal gut " ‘ he Le

robed in one of the vestries to the right

of the choir, and proceeding down the
south aisle moved up the centre and
were seated across the church. There
were many students present, and a representative body of the Rotary Club.
Members of the bereaved family, including the sons of the late Doctor Hibbert
Woodbury, nephews of the deceased,
were seated in 'the centre of the church.
The procedure of the service, at
which Rev. Dr. Bond, pastor of the
chureh, presided, began with the singing of Hymn 555, followed by prayers
by Rev. Dr. John MacMillan, a personal
friend of the Woodbury family. President Mackenzie then gave a brief address on behalf of Dalhousie University.
Hymn 566, ‘‘The Sands of Time are
Sinking, The Dawn of Heaven Breaks.”’
The Scripture Lesson was read by Rev.
BK. E. Graham, of Brunswick Methodist
Church, after which Rev. Dr. Borden,
of Mount Allison University, spoke on
behalf of that institution, the Board of
Regents, of which Dr. Woodbury was a
member, and which college he attended
before taking his professional course.
The service concluded with the Hymn
568, ‘‘Servant of God Well Done,’’ the
Benediction and the Dead March.
President Mackenzie said there could
be only one thought of Dr. Woodbury,
and that only of the good things he did.
Those associated so long with him in
work in daily life knew of his gentle
Christain ways and recognized the
beauty of his character, President
Mackenzie then reviewed how Dr. Woodbury had worked to established the Dental College. He was not only the dean
and administrative head, but one of its
busiest teachers. Dr. Woodbury was a
recognized leader of his profession in
Canada.
His ideals were high, hs goal set far
before him. He possessed boundless

enthusiasm, and.intensity of spirit. Dur-.

recent months’ he had gained a daily
victory over ill health by his indomitable
spirit, and flesh and blood had to obey
until they were no more. ‘‘Dr. Woodbury lived to see his aim accomplished,”’
alk President Mackenzie, ‘‘the Dental
School is established, and now only financial assistance is required. Before
his death, Dr. Woodbury had reason to
know that was not beyond expectation. ’’
Dr. Borden emphasized the faith in
the Ressurrection, taking his analogy
from the scene at Be when Christ
raised Lazarus to life. he gave in
who asked in wonder
7

ne +e Se ee

**T am glad for your sake that I was not
there,’’ the words Christ had used te
test the faith of the sister in the home
of Bethany.

The benediction was pronounced by
Dr. Borlden, after which the Dead Mareh
was rendered. At the conclusion of the
service the congregation were given an
opportunity to view the features of the
deceased by passing before the casket
as it was placed before the altar.

At seven o’clock this morning the
body was taken to the D. A. R. train for
Middleton, where burial will take place
this afternoon. President Mackenzie
of Dalhousie will represent the University. Mr. H. E. Mahon will represent.
the Board of Governors; Dr. Beckwith
the Dental Faculty; and the following
dental students will also attend: First
Year—Mr. R. G. MacGregor; Second
Year—Mr. J.C. Trainor; Third Year—
Mr. C. B. Climo; Fourth Year—Mr. D.
M. Reed.—Evening Echo, Feb. 7, 1922.

DR. WOODBURY’S LIFE STORY.

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE SIX)

and for years he was Superintendent of
its Sunday School.

Of late years he had attended the
Grafton Street Methodist Church, and
there, as at Brunswick Street Chureh,
he will be genuinely mourned. As to
Sunday School work he threw his soul
into it, being a member of both the Ininternational and World Committees.
Several years ago he with others visited
the West Indies and South America in
order to introduce Sunday School organization and influence there.

Rev. G. J. Bond, of the Grafton
Street Methodist Church; President
MacKenzie, of Dalhousie, and P. F.
Moriarty, of the Y. M. C. A., and others
paid special tributes to the life of Dr.
Woodbury, and the loss the community
and profession has sustained in his
passing away.—Acadian Recorder.

| |
Sleep sweetly, tender heart, in peace:
Sleep, holy spirit, blessed soul,

While the stars burn, the moons inerease,

And the great ages onward roll. —

Sleep till the end, true soul and sweet.
Nothing comes to thee new or strange.
Sleep full of rest from head to feet; _

Lie still, dry dust, secure of change.
ey

   
  
    

hae

ain A
=F i Site, Pee
= 4} a: Eine me
a, a j
.

subd

4
Lt

. ‘-.
Tenny :
~ i ity
ie * ;
7 M oy
: : ba

ae em pr mi

i a ee aad
laa —

} 6 ‘ = wal)

te, = cs raataey Y

a r + i >A 4

; oti wen vs Sl Rear Cee he eet teke 2 2
ah ie mi eee iy 1 Ps, | i
 

 

Rev. Dr. Bond’s Cribute

 

Rev. Dr. Bond, of Grafton Street
Methodist Church, gave the following
tribute to the memory of his old friend.
to the press:

‘*T have known Frank Woodbury for
nearly half a century. We were both in
the early twenties when we first met as
students at Mount Allison College, I in
my closing year and he a new student.
After commencement he entered upon
professional studies in Philadelphia and
I went to Newfoundland as a Methodist
Minister. .We did not meet again for
more than ten years. He was than practising his profession in Halifax.

‘*When I came as a pastor to reside
here over thirty years ago our
friendship was renewed. He was
then in the prime of life, in the

exacting and unceasing toils of a
busy profession, but with a _ wide
outlook upon, and an active participa
| tion in the activities of citizenship, not

| only civic but provincial; and with. a

| self-sacrificing and unswerving devotion
to the interests of the church of which
he was a member and the spread of the

kingdom of the Master whom he loved. ©

‘‘RWor Frank Woodbury was a Chris
tian. He was that when I knew him

first at Sackville. He was that in the

| stress and struggle of his maturity. He

was that in all the successes that came to

him, in all the responsibilities that de
volved upon him, in all the affection and

respect and honor which his friends and
fellow citizens accorded him, in the ri

ness of his influence, and in the closing

years of his life.

  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 

He could not be ordinary in anything
he undertook. He could not be an ordinary dentist or an ordinary citizen. Least
of all could he be an ordinary follower
of that Divine Lord to Whom he felt
his utmost love and gratitude were due.
not in the profession that may be formal

‘‘He was not an ordinary Christain.

and cheap, but in the confession that
cannot be other than practical and costly.

. Indeed he was a Christain first, midst,

last. It was not with him a religion
tacked on to life, it was life’s dominant
chord, life’s essental dynamic. He looked
at everything from the Christain standpoint, he engaged in everything with a
Christain motive. Yet he made no loud
profession of superior sanctity. There
was not a particle of the ‘‘Stand aside,
I am holier than you.’’ Nothing was
further from him. Yet every one knew
that he was a Christian. They felt it
in the atmosphere that surrounded ‘him,
in the spirit in which he lived his life.

‘*In his church work, he devoted himself especially to the interests of the
Sunday School. He was an accomplished teacher. He was an especially
successful Superintendent. Those who
knew Dartmouth Methodist Sunday
School during the years of his leadership in them will bear witness to that.
He was the most widely read and thoroughly versed man in what may be called
the technique of Sunday School :teaching and management, that there was in
the province. And during the years
when he was provincial head of the International Sunday School Association,
the methods and management of the
schools of Nova Scotia, took perhaps the
first rank in Canada.

The Woodbury brothers were eee
ners not only in business but in Christian living and in Christian work. When
Hibbert: died, a few years ago, he was
widely missed and mourned. Now Frank
has gone, and there are many saddened
hearts and ee sy lives. For there are
not many like . Perhaps, take them
all in all, we shall hardly look upon their
like again.’’ |

An appreciation of Dr. Bond’s written especially for the Gazette appears
in another part of this issue. 
 

 

  

   

% "* iT Se = .
! i be ee eee i ~ ay i 3 oe ¢ w F
: LF pa dS hae eee ey 8 mine faa Se
a Lia % nS =e i? £-1,) Pia

' ; » ; Pad hig? A
: ; a ‘ “¥ * . * 4 bs
is = 5 ? .* Pie 5 4 5 +? mas sg * he es i eat f ; oe ‘ *
’ 4 ia \y r4 : *4f) = “ ie. * firm: é ited r
’ | , 34 #9 ei AS; “ J ’ iy ie ; + Me | Patt. alts } hice fC, tig i Shine Arr ee
ei ihe = ele 2 r ey, i) eee, oA ea
: eda /

4 : ‘o asl - : ; ae ) c f a6 a > ry y - oe im ti is = , 9 ‘ , bs + ge ,
Si ONO TM TN aT PO ee iT ee le tae
2 \ ame ad ” Di ib J juine u ea ar aed ria a AIRS ehh ey ae. aie 1! ae set | a 2 iar ie es Lesa
= ee wie ’ 7) ‘= #4 Pt Th ae: f é i iw . j ate ee

      
    
   

  

   

BJ

 
