 

 

Vol. LIV.

—Founpep 1869—
IssueD WererKLY. ONE DoLiArR Per YEAR.

Business Manager - - J, R. NICHOLSON, B. A.
77 Queen Street.
C. F. BOWES, B. A.

AU subscriptions.and advertising accounts payable
to the Business Manager.

Editor

Associate Editors
Miss Er_een Burns Miss MABEL Morrison

D. C, CoLQuHOUN R. F. CALLAN

M. C. Chay C, R. Baxter

G. C. Macr®op R. M. RICHARDSON
J. G. Foeo

J. A. DUN Lop

Sports Editor

Special Reporters

Miss M. 0, MADDEN;
L. A. Munro;

Miss Rosperta M. Forpes
W. G. Porrier

 

We must ask our readers to bear
with us this week; at the very last
moment it was found advisable to postpone our Library Number for still another week, which meant that the entire
staff were called upon to write a Gazette
in the small space of less than twelve
hours, consequently the material may
be not quite up to the mark. Also there
may be typographical errors due to
hasty proof-reading but for that we offer our apologies.

* * & ®@

Now that we have the new Gymnasium, why not start Community singing? We venture to assert that scarcely one eighth of the present student
body know the Dalhousie songs. Might
it not be a idea to get together
during the hours when there are no
classes and practice say one song until it ean be well delivered? One song
well learned is worth five only half done.
Even fifteen minute practices would be
advantageous if they could be arranged.

It is not nece to have the whole student body practice at once; in fact it

would be advisable to do so, but to
practice in groups. Perhaps the Glee
Club might be persuaded to take the

   
 

matter up. This suggestion came from
a petdilies terior ot the foenlty ond
it ie & Wery good one indeed, Think it
over, students, and act upon it,

 

The Dalbousic Gazette

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 15, 1922

+--+ -—

We note that there is much discussion in the public press just now over
the subject of hockey referees; it seems
to us that if anyone has a kick coming
over this matter it is Dalhousie. However the City League executive has decided that the present referees are the
best procurable. Therefore we are
forced to abide by their decision; they
should know more about it than we do.
One thing that struck us as rather
childish, however, was the assertion of
President Wiswell in his letter to the
Herald, that if ‘‘the knocking was not
stopped we would soon have'no referees
at all.’’ Well, if we cannot have impartial referees we had better do without
any. Poor refereeing, or partial refereeing is worse than none at all. A
referee who goes on the ice and is partial might as well don a uniform and
get into the game himself; the remarks
about knocking are hardly to the point
either. If somebody does not make an
attempt to correct things that appear
to the unprejudiced as wrong they will
never be set right, and if they are not
rectified how can we expect.to get the
most possible out of Canada’s National

game?

A Nova Scotia Poet Lectures

At The Maiestic

Lovers of Art and kindred subjects
were given a treat at the Majestic on
Wednesday last when Dr. Robert ‘NNorwood gave readings from his works to
a packed house. Musical interpolations
were furnished by Mr. Ifan Williams’
Orchestra and proved a feature of the
evening. Dr. MacMechan oecupied the
chair and was paid a graceful tribute
by our Nova Scotian Poet who referred to him in very complimentary
terms.

Words cannot convey the impression
made upon the minds of ‘those who
were privileged to hear him by the
principal speaker of the evening; it
will be something for those persons
present to treasure up as one of their
most pleasant memories. Dr. Norwood

is gifted not only with a genius for.

poetic expression, but he has also the
rare gift of histrionic ability to a marked degree, and he lifted his audience
with him and injected much of his own

feeling into his words. This province,

one that produced such men as Joseph
Howe, Tupper, Macdonald and Fielding, may well be proud to rank along
with these statesmen her greatest living

P :
|
, 
| 86% ne
& .
2

The Dalhousie Gazette

poet, and she may well congratulate
herself on having had. the opportunity
to hear him speak in the capital city of
his native province. All Nova Scotians
will join in wishing Dr. Norwood a long
and happy career in the field in which
his genius has placed him. There may
be careers of a far more lucrative na
ture than that of poet, but

. . . “because right is right, to follow right,
Were wisdom in the scorn of consequence.”

The true artist finds enjoyment and
pleasure in his chosen work and herein
lies his reward.

Eric Dennis Memorial Lectures

In the Auditorium of the School for
the Blind there was given on Thursday,
Feb. 9th, the first of a series of lectures
by Prof. H. F. Munro in connection with
the ‘‘Eriec Dennis Foundation’’. One of
the conditions of these series is that the ©
lectures must be on questions of National and International Relations.

Before commencing his discourse on
the ‘‘International Relations between
Canada and the United States’’, Prof.
Munro stressed the importance of International relations in general. To
use the speaker’s own words. ‘‘If as
many people understood International
Relations as there were those who understood Chemistry, Mathematics, etc.,
the late War probably would not have
come about. The subject was the only
one in which the World was interested.’’ War, he said, was one way of
settling disputes between nations but
the world was looking for an alternative way and everything pointed to
arbitration. One and a half centuries
of peaceful relations between Canada
and the States within which there had
arisen some vexatious questions, was
proof. Attention was drawn to the
fact that coincident with the closing
of the conference at Washington the International Court of Justice had been
opened at Hague.

Britain has supplied the diplomacy
between Canada and the United States
while Canada has looked after the international aspect—Canada’s purpose
is to interpret Great Britain to United
States. In taking up his subject he
must treat of it from the historic point
of view—he said—history and Political Seience very intimately _ joined.
Since 1776 the two great questions between nations were the Heonomic and
the boundary question. The Heonomic

(Continued on page 4)

 
foe ~

 

  

Saturday afternoon,

aoe ne lel LET I a NT et Be Se cnet se
} :
i

Sr eee a oa
oa Nee ee een ee ee ae Re eee ee

 

UNIVERSITY HALL.

The Birehdale-Pine Hill game took
place on the 2nd.at the South End Rink
and ended disastrously for both parties.
We were short 10 simoleons and Pine
Hill was—aceording to our opinion—
on the small end of the seore. It was an
exceedingly interesting game and all the
old tricks of the M. P. H. A. were put
in-use. People sat on the pueck—turned
the nets around, or used the stieks in
ways not laid down in the rules. <According to the version we heard, the
final score was 2—1 in favor of Birchdale. The challengers agreed for the
losers to pay for the rink, but the Pine
Hill element wanted only to pay half and
call ita tie. Not seeing it-that way, we
paid for the rink and thought some of
the lawyers in our midst would figure
out a way to retrieve our wandering
eash. So far they have failed us,

His Honor the Lieutenant-Governor.
accompanied by the Chief Justice of
Nova Scotia, visited the Residence on
Feb. 4th. Thev
were escorted around by Mr. Nesbit and
appeared to be much struek with the an
pearance of the rooms and the place in
- general.

Forty-three fortyv-fourths of the boys
were enjoying the good iee on the
‘Arm’? at the time—it was not our
fault, for the visit was not advertised.

Dr. Fraser Warris, Dr. Johnson,
Prof. Hunt and Geo. Dunn were some of
the visitors we noticed around Sunday..
Brent Haslam has been in the city the

last week.

As an aftermath of a sleigh drive

some of our ardent students have found _

it necessary to use the fire escape as a
means of exit from the building. Why!!
iy gg toumament sone mt
and glorions finish duri e

Soak end. The fifth round was does up
of two representatives of Cape Breton
and two from Truro. Bill Marshall de
feated Duchemin Thursday and went into the finals. |

Saturday. Campbell won from Dexter, and in the final Campbell defeated
Dexter.
game, Dr. Dawson presented the prizes,
every one in the semi-finals receiving a
yrize. Also Mr. BH. Gladstone arker

    

Immediately after the last

j N orte y c x i
ved a large mince pie for his efforts Gompany
= ™ ae py # 3 ' ; J ap eS a —

. P ih
ta ’ 7
j a wt es ‘ = 54 : : ’
7 ‘ 4 iP ote | pat = ww 7 r : ae aa’ = a as ~
fue ee i => SF se d i | . a ania :
Pat 4 ler > H rs , ~ohal - ‘
ee: a | na oY —pyotortunate
, sb « is a ; i é + . wate Sy =
4 pat —s oe oar vy i i wee. wee: A ia f ye
4 > 7%. oy sa a ua ) I
a aaa: ‘x's ; 3 ;
; 2 Pt : arehar 10O TY
4 Hs Cat I 4) = a
. i } = 5 ' we a&* ‘ 5 é
: =

-on their return.

{HE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ee ~
erage - oe pee = rene re

-GLEANINGS FROM THE RESIDENCES

 

ee

one just ate it. A cake from Fort Massey church is also mixed up in the story.

It is the intention of the billiard committee to start another tournament this
month.

Communications have again been
established with Newfoundland—at
least a big mail arrived Monday from
the ancient colony.

Prof. R. MeG. Dawson’s cane became
a casualty last Wednesday and the Keonomies lecture’at 2.30 suffered as a consequence, ™ jh

One of our Senior Meds—Alex.
Guthro, Med. ’254—is exceedingly anneyed at the treatment handed out to
him in the dining room—not by the staff
but the FreshmengeHow great an honor
to be a Freshnian!

‘‘How often does a recurring decimal
recur ?”? THE SCRIBE,

ye
PINE HILL

In spite of rain and wind, quite a
number went to see the hockey game
between Pine Hill and University Hall
on the night of the second inst. Pine
Hill had an all-star team, but owing to
the wet night no stars could shine. The
referee, however, was certainly in a
class by himself. Cummings had the
honor of the first goal. According to
the Pine Hill erowd the score was 3—2
in favor\ of the Hill; while the opposition claimed it was 1—2 in favor of the
Hall. The referee maintained that the
score was 2—2. Both teams have finally

accepted the referee’s decision.

Debating received some attention as
well ad: . About a fourth of the

residence attended the final trials, elect- —

ing to miss one of the games in order’
to hear the five and a half Pine Hillers

in the trial. Yes, we consider MacKin-—

ing to Pine Hill. All

non as half bel ve Hi
the boys did splendidly. ‘Mae’? and

‘‘Len’’ were given

  
    
  
 

weary from noe

   

‘Harrison,

   

 

 
  
   
 

a

That cannot

.

y wt) ee

— — a SS ee

‘heir skates. On Thursday, too, the

‘oys went, en masse, to the South Kind

rink and enjoyed all but the crowded

dressing room. One rhymster remarked:
‘‘There, little college, don’t you cry!
You’ll have a little rink

—Bye and Bye.
SCRIBBLER.

WAIL FROM MARLBOROUGH

This last week has been very slow,
There wasn’t one darned thing to do,
But sit around and freeze.

And when at last that palled, why we
Would go and talk to Dorothy G—
To cheer her sinking soul—you see—
For she was ill.

She thoughtlessly, recuperated,
And, bored to tears, meals so belated;
With appetites unsatiated,

We wait the second bell :— .
And when it comes—what can we eat?
No soup—no coffee—tough old meat, .
Four applés thrill us to our feet—
With joy we ery—‘ Farewell’’—

‘In all sincerity we try

To help the ‘‘starvation army”’

But squelched are all our hopes—

Despite O. V. A’s genial woe,

To help along the Esquimaux

So they won’t send fish here below:

Nothing availed.

And so for lunch—I ’spose we'll, ‘‘Jam
at”? :

Orying all the while Oh! Dammit—

We'll hold our nose and bravely cram
it— ,

Delicious cheese.

We go to bed doleful and dumb

And wish tomorrow’s never come

With all its “heat’* and “light” and

“fun .
'Tis overtiring. |
We also pity people’s minds
And leave one furious—not a rhymeM 2 . “ ‘the Delta | " i ) on ene

  
    
  
 

       
      
     

(ae ; ie he . a = , iD eB
= Y x i, 1 f ic J ty 4
“Hell,” eried the
$7 rete 7 - at) r
5 v) i

  

pe Tgp one athe teas 4} = a
ea ‘ a baie Ds
’ OP ee ee 7 a fies cae ad
. ‘ cA Py ieee? Fee q 4 F a
. 4 tae ee es ye os eon et
= ‘ ‘i ; 7 - +. ‘ ; t+ kh 3 i
A mys ; hi a a TT Di :
et AY 4 ors 4 s li * ry my i ‘
4 ae a > er oa oo ee io P
a ; =. i ss \ q a ‘nip aie = ne | a mS io
ii if f ips Ta Rf )
— > r _ .

    

~_ nr me
- mr nm eatin et CO CT I A OC LLL LLL LLL AL LE

I .
Ee Ge et - oe
a

oa m a ee

 

mal

PHARMACY “DOPE”

On Thursday, Feb. 2, at the South
End Rink our speed artists, sawe'l another notch in the old score sticks, When
they smothered the champion Law team
to the tune of 4 to 1.

Barring a few rough plays, the
came was as fast and furious as a
“Whirling Dervishes’’ prayer meeting.
The boys from ‘‘Dopedom’? forced the
play practically all the way and but for
the good work of Lougheed, the Law
voal tender, the score would have been
doubled. Lougheed saved his team
time and again, making some brilliant
stops.

Maguire played well, tho at times he
‘“eut loose’? with some wood chopping
stunts. For Pharmacy, Seldon deserves
a lot of eredit. Hardly well enough to
leave bed, he turned out with the team
and put up a wonderful game. He was
casily the best. stick-handler on the ice.
The rest of the boys played hard and
Mer, ‘Jake’? says that they have improved fifty per. |

Law mourned the absence of Jones,
their star defence man, which weakened
their team greatly. We trust that he
shall appear in the next game we have
with the ‘‘legal lights’. Tommie
Horsler refereed to the entire satisfaction of all concerned.

Our next game is probably with
Dentistry and from the outside, it looks
as if it will be a ‘‘hum-dinger’’. Our
old ‘‘football allies’? have a_ strong
team and as ‘‘Jake’’ says, we’ve gotta
travel, to beat them. |

(1) ‘Burt Collins was down with
the grip but is bett(y)er-at this writ
    
 
    
   
    
     

  

ing. (2) ‘Sam’? Forbes almost won
the billiard championship, and would
surely have done so, but for the fact
that he got | up on the ‘‘Diacon’ plaster, previous to the game,
ris goat. (3) Wonders me

 
  
 
   
 

aes a = eR

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

a ee nce nae nae ARERR ae ———

THE FACULTIES ARE DOING

aS on aaa

—

ee eee - - ° : ' ——) _—

——— oo ne —- a ae : - e - a ee ee

ae ee es

ae - . = —

 

ENGINEERING NOTES

Mr. R. F. Dimmiit, chief chemist of
the Imperial Oil Works, gave a very interesting ‘talk before the Society on Friday, Feb. 3rd, on the subject of ‘Oil
Refining’, The lecture was held in
Room 5, and about 45 attended. Mr.
Dimmitt illustrated his leeture with
drawings and also had samples of the
various liquids he spoke of.

Basket ball talk is on the go again
and it looks like the Interfaculty League
will really start. A meeting was held at
the home of Wiifrid Marshall over a
week ago and officials elected for the
league. The league is supposed to start
this week and a schedule for the six
teams will be published as soon as the
times are settled for the gym.

The Engineers’ team had a practice
Saturday afternoon at the: ‘‘Tech”’
evm. In the drawing for the first games
the Engineers play Dentistry. The Mnginers’ practice hour is Thursdays, 12
to 1, and the league games will be ail
played Monday evenings.

MEDICAL NOTES

Until he is nearing the end of his
course, the average student’s ideas concerning the theory and application, particularly the latter, of the Hippocratic
art are reasonably vague. The laity
(usual contempt intended), however,
consider the student of one or two years
standing as a sort of replica of Osier,
Hale, White, and several other equally
celebrated and blasphemed authorities.

‘7 have apain in my stomach; you’re

a medical student, _what’s the matter _

with me?’’ comes the query. And the
embryo, endeavoring to manifest a
‘‘Bacies’’ indicative of infinite wisdom
and matchless cunning, fixes the sufferer

and hazards inquiries as to the temperature, swelling of the

  
  
  
  
  
  
    
 

or tired feeling

  

   
   

———

a 2 14 eas aa b

4 x J A ; ‘ =

¢ ra 4

yY se F a °
es 4 pL my a ae: ta P poh

: ce le ” .
- ¥ 4 i
'
<3 Li

E ez \
vor a ee

Pr
i

ting the bo

PAPE 2 Wa Tee 5 :
na i
ew bY ’ ; \
‘ Kk e i , very E
4 ; : =
ely , > aa <
i ¥ oad 7
; / . Si
fF t SCs 2s

 

(?) to become really alarmed, and the
student, smiling inwardly, retires with
ihe happy consciousness of a deed well
cone,

A variety of Pelmanism seems to
have taken the eye of the frequenters of
the Med. smoker. Looks like an attempt
io get a little ‘eanalization’’ working
for the spring. Good old Bahmung.

Dr. Cameron’s work room bears,
with its row upon row of skulls a mai xed resemblance either to an Aztec
temple or the den of a fairly rapacious
lion.

DELTA GAMMA

‘‘Many a heart is broken if you could
count them all, .
Many a hope is shattered after the ball.’’
So thought some of the Dal boys
who were obliged to drink the bitter
dregs of remorse around a lone grate
fire while their companions were daneing to the musie of the Copley Plasa orechestra at Delta Gamma’s danee. Invitations to this dance are not bought with
eold or silver, they are the reward of
kind'y services on the part of gentlemen to the members of that mysterious
society which is called Delta Gamma.
Onee a year and once only does it
open its doors to the curious intruder
and that is when it holds its annual
danee. This year’s affair proved to be
the first real college dance since the
days when the old Munroe room was
eonsidered an ideal hall. During the
past few years college dances have been
held ‘‘down-town’’, but now that the
gymnasium has been built, our soeial alfairs can be held at Studley. One of the
outstanding features of the evening was

the presence of our professors, a feature

which all the students appreciate, es
pecially as the profs. put aside their

lordly dignity and were ‘‘boys with the
ys’, res

Mrs. Pearson, Mrs. MacMechan and i

Mrs. Stewart received the guests, ably
assisted by Miss Jean Fraser, the presi
dent of the society. > tates
On the whole the dance was most

-snecessful and boys and girls alike are—

 
  
   

 
    
   

- é ; > i .
—jooking forward to next year’s dance. —
; = ; : ett “4 4 © | ; es gh 2
; ya! < aa i a a ee as
a ee

Eric Dennis Memorial Lectures
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1)

question between Canada and the United States was the Fisheries and in
connection the subject divided into two
parts namely the ‘‘North Atlantie Fisheries’’ and the Behring Sea Arbitration.
After 1500 the subject of Fisheries became an important feature in the making of treaties. In the ‘‘Treaty of
Utrecht’’ 1715 Great Britain said that
France and Spain must withdraw from
the Fisheries with exception that
France held the Western and part of
the Northern Shore of Newfoundland.
The French built Louisburg to defend
her exclusive rights in this respect.
Prof. Munro then went on to show how
the fisheries question came up in 1782
and stated that the commission appointed by the States to prepare the Treaty
sent John Adam as_ plenipotentiary.

His instructions were first to secure in- .

dependence secondly to see that the
boundary was specified and to secure
Fishing rights. The lecturer then traced the International: relations leading
up to the War of 1812 including the
settlement of the Fisheries question in
1782 when the Americans were given
the right to take fish but not cure or dry
them except off Newfoundland. They
could land only on coasts of Nova. Scotia, Magdalen Islands, and Labrador.
In 1812 the question of the effect of
War on this Fisheries Treaty arose, the
Americans claiming that War did not
abrogate the treaty while Britain claimed that the treaty was terminated and
that the Americans could only get back
their fishery rights by a grant.

Lack of space will only permit of
the mention of a few of the important
treaties with respect to the fisheries.
In 1854 there was a Reciprocity Treaty whereby the British let Americans
take fish anywhere and the Americans
gave Britains the same right as far as
the mouth of the Delaware. In
1864-5 Americans terminated this treaty and went back to the terms of 1818

By Treaty of 1818 the privileges to
Americans re coast of Newfoundland,
Magdalen Islands and Labrador had.
been withdrawn.

Tn 1871 another Reciprocity Treaty
appears which came into force in 1873.
However, Great Britain contended that
the Americans were getting the best of
the bargain so in 1877 the Halifax
Commission decided the question in favour of Britain an d the States had to
pay the difference. .

. . In 1908 the Hague tribunal decided that Britain had the right to regulate fishing on coasts of Canada and
that the term ‘‘Bay’’ which had caused
a lot. of difference of opinion meant geogranhical bay.

Professor Munro’s lecture was in
strnetive and entertaining. He dealt |

with his subject in a manner which deded attention and the students of
alhousie mould not miss the oppor
RAE;

THE DALHUUSIE GAZETTE

tunity of hearing the remainder of the
lectures delivered by one who knows
his subject from A to Z. D.C. C.

FINAL TRIAL

The words of Mr. Walker of the Intercollegiate Debating Committee ‘‘the
best trial debate I have ever heard
here’’, are the most fitting tibute, that
can be given to the Final Trial debate
held Tuesday night. The attendance
(of the girls), was good. Of the thirtysia gentlemen present Pine Hill gave
twenty-eight.

The speakers were in fine fettle the
debate was in all truth, ‘‘A feast of reason and a flow of soul’’. Messrs. M. C.
MacDonald, Arthur Forbes, A . G. MeKinnon and H. Norton, were the affirmative and Messrs. J. H. Mackadden, Sid
Gilchrist, Leonard Fraser and I. K.
Forsyth the negative speakers.

Messrs. MacDonald and MacF'adden,
veterans of previous debating teams,
lacked none of their old-time fire and
brilliance. Leonard Fraser held the
audience spell-bound with his fluency
and style. The intense earnestness of
Sid Gilchrist and the well-worked-out
arguments of A. G. MacKinnon produced most favorable impressions on the
listeners. The reasoned eloquence. of
Forbes and Norton insures at least two
Presbyterian churches against empty
pews in the coming years. I. K. Forsyth represented Dartmouth, and well
maintained the prestige of the ‘‘Sugar’’
town.

Of course they could not all be chosen. The hour taken by the Committee
of selections showed how evenly the
candidates were matched. Only for the

rules of Sodales, the choice could have

been made by lots, so Pres. Walls reported,

Pres. Walls deplored the lack of
support given the society. He asked
for a full house for the girls final trial
debate which takes place soon.

The Dal team is up against a determined and proven foe—St. F. X. Let
every student with a spark of love for
the college plan to attend the debate
and inspire our team with his or her
presence. — W. MeO.

Announcement

THE TARRY INN is under the
ment of two Dal. studen be, Seed ‘Tromahe,
Arts ’22, and John McCurdy, Dentistry, ’26.
As students we ’ what students

er
ee ee

JUNIOR SENIOR TODDLE.

About 300 of the devotees of the
hardwood floor indulged in the above
mentioned terpsichore at the Dal Gym
last Monday evening. We mention the
‘‘terpsichore’’ because nowadays no
report of a college dance is complete
without that term in one of its various
forms.

The chaperones, Mrs. Murray MeNeil, and Mrs. G. F. Pearson received
the girls at the west end while the exultant youths poured in from the east
end of the hall. The Harmonie Orchestra furnished the syncopation and
everything went over with a bang. A
pleasing feature was the presence of a
large number of the faculty who demonstrated their card playnig abilities at
one end of the building only reniging
once in a while to join in the odd jazz.

The dance was a great success and
credit is due the committee in charge
for the admirable manner in which preparations were carried out. Special
mention should be made also of the decorations and the ‘‘special’’ dance features—not to forget the cozy (7?) little
sitting out space; probably it was unintentional but it served the purpose and
many took advantage of it in turn.

STOP PRESS.

Dalhousie plays Wanderers in final
City League game next Tuesday night.
Let’s have everybody out to root for the
team!

Heard at Class ’22 Meeting:

MacD-n-ld:—Where would you put
the sun dial if the Class presented one?

K-ll-y :—In the sun you boob!

 

Who was the student in English V
who ‘was lulled to sleep by the rendering of ‘‘Sweet and Low?’’

What made Prof. Wilson say before
the text in History 8, ‘‘Don’t look so
serious. You would think I was going
to ask you something hard.” |

MOIRS

Chocolates

the favorite confection of Dalhousie
students for generations, because
Se ees

 

 

 
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

MOCK PARLIAMENT

What’s wrong with the country,
who’s to blame and what will bring
back an era of prosperity—all these
things and many more were as plain as
the nose on a man’s face (even the nose
of a tee-totaller) after the first 1922
session of Dalhousie’s mock parliament
on Wednesday evening last. Briefly,
the explanation was given in the manner following, that is to say, viz:

Hon. R. M. Fielding, premier; Hon.
Dudley F. MeGeer, minister of public
works; K. L. Crowell, member for Annapolis, and R. M. Palmer, member for
Royal, all of whom spoke on the address in reply to the speech from the
throne in the Liberals interests, showed
clearly that the unsatisfactory conditions were entirely due to the fact that
the Liberals had been out of power between 1911 and 1921.

John F. Mahoney, Conservative
leader, and J. P. Connolly, (member for
Killarney) right hand man, ‘‘the power
behind the throne’’ and general stormy
petrel in politics, who moved and
seconded, respectively, an amendment to
the reply, showed equally as clearly that
the trouble could all be traced back to
the evils which had been wrought by the
the Liberals between 1896 and 1911—all
except what had happened since Dec. 6
last, when the country began to go to
the dogs entirely.

L. D. Currie, Progressive leader,
and J. Gordon Fogo, one of his chief
benchmen, pooh-poohed the statements
of both the other parties. One, they said,
was as bad as the other and a dog-gone
sight worse. What the country needed was a Progressive administration.

The Progressives showed their contempt for both old parties by voting
neither for nor against the amendment
nor against the address in reply, which
passed by 17 to 15.

In the absence of the Duke of Charlottetown, governor-general, the address
from the throne was made by Chief Justice Sir John BE. Read. It called attention to the fact that the new Parliament

buildings at Studley had been usu
by * artisans a duwting

pedants,’’ that the railways were —
money, that certain undesirable radi

elements were rampant, that too much
of the wrong kind and not enough of the
right kind of

tion was cor

  
 
 
  

 
   

of which were answered at once.

 terupters

elected speaker of the Commons.

Many of the Progressive members
asked questions of the ministers most
The
Speaker called attention to the rule that
notice should first be given of such
questions.

Mr. Crowell, in an eloquent address
in reply, said that the C. G. M. M. ships,
now anchored at the North West Arm
owing to the hard times caused by the
late administration, might well be used
to transport out of the country, gratis,
those who wanted to leave, such as
those who wished to return to the new
Palestine. The B. N. A. Act, he said,
might well be copied by the British Kmpire, which could legislate for the class
of matters which are of Imperial concern, leaving to each component part
those classes of subjects of a merely loeal or private nature.

Mr. Palmer, who seconded the address in reply, spoke i in a eulogistie vein

of the Liberal party and awed the |

house when he ended his speech in
French.

Mr. Mahoney said:—Ever since the
time of Sir John Macdonald (cheers)
the Conservative party of Canada has
stood for National Policy (applause).
We believe in a tariff of the people, by
the people, and for the people. What
does the speech from the throne say?
Nothing (loud cheers). That disposes
of that (thunderous applause).

Mr. Currie—The capitalistic class
controls everything under both Liberla and Conservative rule (applause and
laughter). We propose to bring in an
era of happiness and prosperity for all
(cheers). Our platform was posted up
so everybody could see it.

Mr. Connolly—When?

Mr. Currie—This afternoon (cheers
and laughter). Somebody swiped it.
If it was a Tory I wouldn’t be surprised
(cheers from Liberals, boos from
Tories). I suppose it was a Liberal
(cheers from Tories, boos from Liberalss). Practically everything else in
the country has been swiped by both the
old parties (loud cheers mingled with
cries of ‘*No, No’’).

Mr. Connolly—The Progressive party is composed of seven foolish virgins
from the Liberal party and some dis= Tories (cheers and boos). The
Tory party stands for a high tariff on
“Whee: rkish delight (more cheers and

).
Mr. Speaker—Order, order.
Mr. Rowe—I'll have a beer.
Mr. Connolly—Now that these in
have gone back to sleep, I
Sr tae Peet She cobiant Jo.» bunch

   

of incompetents. Progressives
are a pack ‘of ig in sheep’s clothing. The a.

Ry on Feme.2).

 

 

Dalhousie Headquarters

Sporting Goods

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at
our store at 40 Sackville Street.
We can supply you with every
thing for Sport Life. Also Pocket
Knives, Razors, Shaving Supplies.

Morton & Thomson

Your Education

is not complete if confined to printed
books and lectures. Visiting the interesting and popular places in
every city helps a lot.

We know of no place more popular
or interesting in Halifax than

THE

New Green Lantern

Neilsen & Mills

LIMITED

26 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

SPECIAL—Evening Dresses to Measure in
two days, including all materials,
$18.90 to $33.50.

LADIES’ TAILORING DEPT.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed,

—-OUR LEADERS ——
Broadcloth, Velour or Pure Indigo Blue Serge

Velour, Plaidback, Chinchilla Overcoats........... $37.50
Many others from $34.90 up.

Open Friday and Saturday Evenings

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
128 YOUNG STREET

HATS —— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

MENRY §. COLWELL .........scssssseeeeres President
GARNET J. COLWELL, ..../..c.scse. Vice-President

RAY J, COLWELL ciscccsscccscscseeeseenens - Director

CYRIL H. COLWELL .........65++ .Secretary-Treasurer

 
 

 

 

QUALITY

JN England you will find
men everywhere smoking

Player’s Navy Cut Cigarettes

with the same keen enjoyment

as they do here!

Over in Australia, the sailor in the

lifebuoy is a very familiar character,

and there, too, PLAYER’S are
universally enjoyed.

There can be only one reason
—quality !

That is why men
preter PLAYERS

et

  
   
  
  
 
 
     

~

ll

 

ee _
- eS
o

HTT
|

i

la MS

> .
~ ae
a

ee!) — =

me

 
   

oe

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ee ee OC SES

 

Intermediates Win; Seniors Tie Game With Crescents

Dal Ties Crescents--One All

The Dalhousie Tigers playing away
under form Tuesday night, Feb. 7th,
were lucky, to hold the fast travelling
Cresent sextette to a one all draw after
ninety minutes of battle in the second
last game of the City league. After
the great contest_with the Dartmouth
team, the followers of the Gold and
Black were expecting a rather easy win
and the mediocre brand of hockey displayed showed up strongly in contrast.
Only a small percentage of Dal fans
attended the game and the usual rooting was noticeable by its absence. It
is to be hoped that the boys will turn
out better for the crucial game with the
Wanderers.

The game started slow and for
that matter remained slow for the
ereater part of the regular session. At
times it looked more like an interfacultv contest than a city league fixture.
Some of the plavers evidently thought
they were performing under the Pacific
coast rules and were working the forward pass to perfection. Others were
under the impression that it was the
good old game of English Rugby, and
were kicking the rubber on every occasion. Gee Ahern thought it was amateur theatricals and pulled some stunts
that would never have won a prize at
Ackers but which fooled the referee on
two occasions. After one of these Captain Duke Mac!saac was asked to leave
the ice and atquiesced although no one
is yet sure what the charge was.
Bricky Dunn went in the nets for
a minute until he got restless and then
rushed out leaving the Dal citadel to
look after itself, which it did until th
Duke returned, ,

If there was any star on the Dal
lineup, it was Tommy Horsler and he
only shone with a dull glow. He had

‘his usual horseshoe hanging around

though and notched the tying score five
minutes before the end of the game.
The shot was wide but Cushing the
Half Moon’s left defence man kindly
deflected it into the net. In the overtime period the play speeded up a bit
but it was juvenile as compared to previous games.

The Crescent Willow wielders took
heavy toll of the Tigers sticks, and
a acting manager Basil  oneioe?
ae new weapons all evening.

1) Fabie played the whole game ala though he was in no condition to do so

as he had not yet recovered from the
Dartmouth fracas. .

In the second game the intermediates retained their winning streak and
look good for the championship.
Somers was in good form and glided
through the defence for a couple of
pretty ones. He has a good eye for
this. The game ended early the next
morning. The following participated:

SENIORS :—Maclsaac; Dunlop;
Lilly; Bates; McKenna; Dunn; Horsler; Hickey.

INTERMEDIATES: — Lougheed;
Somers; Zinck; Jerrett; MaclInnes;
Beaton; Glennister; MacMillan; Meagher.

St. F. X. Plays Dal Here Tonight

Although some of the Tigers have
not quite recovered from last night’s
Crescents-Dal fracas, the Intercollegiate contest between Dalhousie and St.
Francis. Xavier will be played at the
Arena tonight. It is to be hoped that
the student body will turn out in force
and help the team to win, as victory in
this contest will mean that Dalhousie
will participate in the play-off for the
Maritime Intercollegiate Championship. The probable line-un will be:
voal. Melsaac: Dunion: Tillv: Smith;
Zinck: defence: Dunn: Horsler, Hickey, Beaton.

DAL GIRLS WIN FROM ACADIA.

After strenuous training for over a
month .and being foreed to miss ‘*the’’
social event of the vear, the Dal girls
senior basketball team reaved their reward on Saturday. when thev won from
the Acadia girls at Wolfville 21 to 18.
It was the first game of the newly organized Girls Intercollegiate Basketball league comprising Acadia Kings
and Dal, and the virls were cheered by
the announcement that W. H. Chase,
Kseq., of Wolfville had Aonated a fine
silver cup as a trophy. The male portion of the college at least are expecting that the trovhy will find its first
resting place in the new gym at Studley.

One of the Dal subs. forgot to set
the alarm clock, and arrived at the station when the train was about at Rockingham. Miss Ward, as coach accompanied the team, and A. B. Dawson of
the local ‘‘Y’’ acted as referee in his
usual capable manner. The game was
hard fought, the score being close all
the way through. After the game the
girls were entertained by the Acadia
Coeds and all are loud in their praise
of the treatment accorded them, Dal

was represented by the following team.
Guards—Eiva Mader; Edwina Archibald; Centres—Marion Clark (Capt.)
Lillian Rundle and Madeline Mader;
Forwards—KEsther Crichton; May Linton. Spare—Carol Hawkins.

The following are the dates for the
remaining games of this league.

Feb. 25th—Dal vs Kings at Halifax.

Mch 11th—Kings vs Dal at Windsor.

Mch, 18th—Acadia vs Dal at Halifax.

 

ARTS AND LAW BOTH ‘“ONE’’,

Without Freddy Jones the Law sextette didn’t look: much like a winning
aggregation last Thursday and were
only able to hold Arts one all in the interfaculty contest at the South End
Rink. The Arts men had unearthed a
couple of aggressive forwards in Bayer
and Meagher and with this addition
will give any team in the league a run
for the title. The game was fairly fast,
both teams having lots of subs on hand.
law scored in the first period when
Flinn drove a rebound past Henderson,
which ‘‘the Blonde’ did not have a
chance to stop. The Studleyites came
back however in the second period,
Meagher beating ‘‘Icicle’’ Lougheed
with a fast one. In the third period
both goalies showed up well and no further scoring ensued. They lined up
something like this.

Arts.—Henderson; Clueston; Frame,
McInnis; Meagher; Muir; Bayer Duchemin; Mackinnon. |

Law.—Lougheed, McGuire, Nicholson; Wickwire, Ferguson, Flinn, Newsome, os Chipman, Gunn. ~

ST. GEORGEH’S TRIM DAL
AT BASKETBALL.

The old jinx still pursues ‘‘Jimmy”’
Graham’s quintette of basketeers and on
Saturday night they again lost to their
old rivals St. George’s by the odd point,
and in the last thirty seeonds of play.
It was tthe crucial game of the league
for Dal and although she is still mathematically speaking in the race for the
trophy, it is now almost impossible for
her to win the Brister trophy. |

Hard luck dogged the efforts of the
Gold and Black particularly in the last
half, at the opening of which the score
stood 16 to 8 for Dal. The ‘‘Saints’’
encouraged by a couple of lucky ones |
overcame the Dal lead, and‘less than a —
minute before the final whistle tossed in
the winning basket.
MOCK PARLIAMENT
(Continued from page 5.)

The meeting was in an uproar when
Mr.Connolly sat down.

The Premier—The leader of the opposition and the member for Killarney
have stated that the country has serious
problems to face. Well, who’s to blame
but their own party (cries of ‘‘no, no,”’
and ‘‘yes, yes’’). The Liberal party
under Sir Wilfrid Laurier (loud and
prolonged cheering) brought prosperity to Canada. The people endorsed
the Liberal railway policy at two elections (applause).

Mr. Mahoney—The Tory party was
against the G. T. P.

The premier—Yes, they’re always
against what the people want. They
say it was a foundling, but under Tory
rule it has grown into a giant of a problem. The Liberals will give you another era like that which existed between 1896 and 1911 (thunderous and
deafening cheers from the Liberal
benches).

Mr. Fogo—The Progressives have
been called nasty names. Bolshevists,
Reds, Radicals, Young Turks (loud
cheers) and Fanatics. We are none
of these, though I’ll say we differ from
the Conservatives in regard to a tariff
op Turkish delight (prolonged applause) and other kinds of candy.
We’re for free trade.

The Minister of Public Works and
Mines—If the Tory members could
read they would be able to understand
the speech from the throne (hear,
hear). They have spoken eloquently
and at great length, but said nothing
(continued applause). We must exclude Orientals. (thunderous cheers).

Votes were then taken on the amendment and the motion in reply, the former being defeated and the latter carried.

©. R. Baxter was gentleman usher
of the black rod, Eric Jerrett sergeantat-arms, J. H. MacFadden clerk, and
G. R. Ramey, assistant clerk.

The minister of labor (Mr. Livingstone)moved the first reading of a bill
to amend the Industrial Disputes Act;
the minister of justice (Mr. Dunlop) a
bill respecting marriage and divorce,
and the mnister of finance (Mr. Nicholson) a bill to amend the Bank Act.
These will be discussed at the next sit
ting.
HEARD HERE AND THERE
Prof. Munro in Geo, 1 — ‘‘The only
people who do not change are dead
people. ””
We wonder if any of the theological
gladiators from Pine Hill will some day
choose as their text for a Sunday morn_ ing sermon, ‘‘ Adam,

}

 

;e8

je \ ‘oy ‘ na + wi 7
mi 9 24" Maas See iy tes pn AE bi y - =:
aS ioe pre IW Rarely 2 ie

where art thou?’’

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Acknowledgments

The Gazette wishes to acknowledge
receipt of subscriptions from the following: Misses Dorothy Mackay, Jean M.
Dunlop, Irene Duchemin, Alice M. Havestock, Revs. J. W. A. Nicholson, A. E.
Chapman, Drs. Florence Murray, C. C.
Archibald, Messrs. J. P. MacMillan, G.

A GIF

M. J. Mackay, W. 8S. Calkin, D. G. MacGregor, R H. Graham, Miss Eliz. H.
Stewart, Hon. R. M. McGregor, Misses
Jean Ross, Jessie Creighton, Gladys
Lewis, Drs. D. W. Hoare, M. D. Finigan,
Messrs. J. S. Nickerson, G. A. R. Rowlings, D. G. Davis, H. T. Creighton.

J. R. NicHoson.

for the ‘‘somebody’’ you have in mind
will be pretty easy to find with such a

comprehensive assortment of things as is found in the Birk’s

Year Book.

yp

Tell us how much you want to spend—we’ll. make some
suggestions. |

We make School and Class Pins, and Fraternal Jewellery.
We also submit sketches on request, giving you an estimate of

cost, before proceeding with the work.
WRITE FOR THE BIRKS YEAR BOOK

 

Barrington Street

 

UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA

HUDSON’S BAY COMPANY
Renn the FELLOWSHIP

oe above fellowship, of the annual value of $1,500.00,

tenable at the University of Manitoba, in any
branch of pure or applied science, open to graduates of
any Oanadian University, will be filled for 1922 about
May ist. Applications should be in the hands of the
Registrar of Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Manitoba,

by April 1st.

Further particulars on application. Address
THE REGISTRAR,

 

_ University of Manitoba,

Winnipeg, Manitoba.

a

mn
ie
ps4 ©

ao
1

 
