“Mae a Rens: a
“w tos tS Bee,

FOUNDED 1869

 

 

 

 

The Dalhousie ss

Founded 1869

Issued Weekly - - - ~- One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - ~ ~- + - - J. GORDON FOGO
Associate Editors

Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Amy McKean

Miss Juanita O’Connor D. C. uhoun

R. F. Callan M. M. Me

H. A. Creighton, B.A.  R. R. Dalgleish
P. M. Cassidy

Sports Editor - - - - - H. E. Read, B. A.

Special Reporters

A. C. Milner D. R. Webster, B.A.

Overseas Correspondent - - J. A. Dumilop, B.A.
Staff Artists —

Miss Rose Leslie C, W. Currie

BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.

129 Spring Garden Road ‘

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable to the Business Manager.

EDITORIAL

 

The Gazette wishes you a happy and
prosperous New Year. May 1923 be
for you a year of successful efforts towards the goal in Jife to which you are
striving from day to day. May you
have health, contentment and achieve
your most worthy aims.

 

It may be said that the custom of
making resolutions at the beginning of
a new year is one which exists chiefly
in the minds of editorial writers and
the journalistic fraternity generally,
and not in those of their readers, but
- we hope that such is not the case.

At any rate, proceding on the assumption that resolutions are not obsolete things, let us hope that among your
Pte ahags with ae is one pertaining to college Let us hope what

ou have decide “in the year one thousand nine hundred and twenty-three to
contribute your share to the ed

weekly. Do not neglect us; take
oes notice of the little black boxes

orrest

| pienso

| zet mS Oy
Fhapaaill- oot

 

 

 

uated with honours in Arts from Dalhousie in 1877, winning the Governor
General’s Medal. At the time of his
death he was Associate Professor of
Chemistry and Librarian of the Science
Department of Queens University. The
Gazette extends sincere sympathy of all
Dalhousians to Mrs, Waddell and all
other relatives and personal friends of
the deceased.

 

Next week the Gazette will be devoted chiefly to the great National
OCofference of Canadian University
Students held at Toronto during the
Christmas vacation under ‘the auspices
of the Student Christian Movement.
This, the first conference of its kind
ever held in Oanada, was attended by
nearly six hundred students representing every University in ‘the Dominion,
as well as many from foreign nations,
who for five days discussed questions
of great national and international impernnn® nce. Dathousie was. ented
y thirty delegates from every class and
Faculty in the University. It was intended to make the present number of
the Gazette the ‘‘Conference Number’’
but due to the shortness of time since
the return of our delegation we have
decided to postpone it a week in order
to allow them time to adequately convey the real meaning and their impressions of the Conference.

We sanmvasaheiie Dr. R. McG. Dawson on his latest scholastic achievement
mentioned elsewhere in this issue. His
new book will no doubt be eagerly read
by those who know his ability in his
chosen branch of seience.

NOTICE TO -DALHOUSIANS

Rehearsals have been again commenced in preparation for the Musical Comedy, ‘‘The Yokahama Maid’’ which is
to be staged by the Dalhousie Dramatic
and Glee Club at the Majestic Theatre

on the evenings of January 22nd and
23rd. It is the intention of the Executive 'to have one of these evenings set
apart as College t. Full partic
lars will a oS eos "Yo of
Gazette. Wa wn our sup.
port is eter so that this ‘‘eollege’’
—,. may be e Sea comet

 

his home in.
“illness of his

La oh 8
hats oa ry ‘) re - Piet

   

How Is the Student Judged?

It is always interesting to know
what ‘‘the man in the street’? thinks
about the student. Perhaps there are
few matters about which more diversity
of opinion exists. By some the student
is regarded as an asset to the community; by others as a sort of eccentric
creature, interested in books to some
extent and in football to a much greater
extent; and by not a few as a useless
young fool who should be placed in an
office and made to do some real work.

Now, it is evident that when students
walk along the street talking together,
many of their words and phrases will
be overheard by passers-by. If these
words are pronounced incorrectly, used
incorrectly, used with a wrong mean‘ng, or allowed to fall over one another
in an almost unintelligible order, the
effect upon those hearing the conglomeration will not be conducive to the
holding of the student in high regard.

As. one of, the professors hag go. fre
quently said, ‘*Tf edueation cannot enable one to speak correctly, wherein
lies its value?’’

A few days ago the remark was
made by a gentleman, who had heard
two students conversing, that had he
not been Canadian born he could not
have known in what language they were
speaking,
chosen were their words. A Frenchman or an Italian, with a good English
vocabulary, would certainly never have
understood the language of these two
college men.

In going along the street or in frequenting public places, the student
should therefore be very careful of his
actions. If he does not care personally, let him remember that his colleagues

will be judged to a large extent by his —

manners. ‘‘The Student’’ will be considered a gentleman or a boor according
to the actions and mode of speech of
those students who most frequently ap
pear in public.

There is a French saying of which
it is well frequently to ‘think:

“Speak little apd well if you wish
to be considered as possessing oa "

‘a1, *
ay

Roe McKenna was unable to accom- x '
pany the Dal team on the training trip

Cok gk Byte
thurst, N, B, one em

to New G

 
  

  

) ne Ti
Ry eae
; Mok. y iY
)

pn eset oe

&

 

so mispronounced and ill- |

 

  

    

  

        
    
        
    
  

  

 
 

    
     
      
 

   

   

 

   

 
   
       
     
   
   
 

 

 

 

 

                  

           

     

    
      

laren OTM eon ay ee NT hE ee pe eT a eee ce mn orneds SST PrP en PLT AUER RE Ne eee eT aT a LT TTT TL RANT Pa TO APR RIEL eA PS VA  HLTI ALTE ET ROTM NOTE TCT Upere
2 . 7 ; | . | : 4
ae ee ak THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 3
citaiaia a regenera ens
9 > _ 3 = .
New Year’s Message From The President Taxation _ MEDICAL SOCIETY University Hall
. |
In response to the Editor's requos| "eee fl When You Travel Abroad ee the er of 1923 brings It has been the custom of the Medi- Following the Christmas vacation
for a New Year’s message I have : with it the new receipt tax we have now cal Society of Dalhousie Uni it g
thought that what might interest the Wins Doctor’s Degree CARRY your own identification formed such a habit of paying taxes hold a saves of a ae ala the Hall EE ie ae tee eo — readers of the (Gazette would be a Dalhousians in general will be pleas- with you. Our TRAVELLERS’ | that it has become much a matter of during the winter months. everyone left during the hea ae
statement of the condition of health of ¢@ to learn that the present Assistant at pew eee oo — second nature. Few of us stop to real- Dr. F Harr} As soon as exams vied over all wes
the University. It.is always a satisfac- Professor of Economics, Mr. R. MacG. athe sa ; ie dentity wad ts ize to what totals our taxes run in the ing an ‘hia ~ ie er could, took the fest tvain, eens sae
tion to be able to report progress of any Dawson has received the degree of Doc- all the principal cities‘and hun- -} course of a year. We leave to higher ject was the intensely interest: sy f ever, like the Newfoundlanders, being
kind; but the progress of Dalhousie dur- tor of Science from London Universi- deals elles dete 1 mathematicians the problem -of esti- | Wie od ie Pt ue Weikble to make such a trip, visited
i benh tom weave hae bee tstandi ty. Dr. Dawson graduated from Dal- hroughout the civili mating such a total but a t rd The Allusions to Medicine found in the ths tie
w years has been outstanding. I throughout the civilized world. a true record yWritinog of Shakespeare lous spots around the Province.
Indeed we are growing almost too fast housie in ’15 and took his M. A. here the kept by one of moderate income would 5 P ) Some who went home were not alfor our own good, and it is difficult to following year, and again at Harvard THE CANADIAN BANK be truly interesting, if not staggering. Dr. Harris showed that in Medicine lowed the two weeks of absolute rest
consolidate our gains. For instance, no im ‘17. He obtained his M. Se. from While not pretending to cover all a8 in other, walks of life Shakespeare The call of hockey took several to New
sooner do we get a building for our Arts London in ’21; the thesis submitted be- OF COMMERCE the taxes with which everyone is fam- showed a wonderful knowledge. His Glasgow, where they commenced the
department than we again find ourselves ing a ‘‘History of Canadian Civil Ser- iliar we mention a few examples. Do descriptions of the symptoms of disease  |agt stages of training for the Cit
cramped for rooms enough and large vice’’. His work for the D. Se. degree we fully realize that every time we buy and of physiological phenomena are as- League. The boys had a fine tri an
enough to accommodate the classes, The but recently conferred is entitled, ‘‘The a three cent box of matches, exactly a tonishing in their accuracy. Syphilis, were entertained roughly durin "their
appended short table showing the change Principle of Official Independence”, |? ™™™™="™ | third of that amount is tax????. The Epilepsy, Gout, Goitre, Heart disease, stay. oe
since the days before the war, and espec- This book fresh from a London .publish- > ae | third cent on our letter rate is truly a Jaundice and many other diseases are Dinty Moore’s vacation was of a
ially in the years since the war, will tell ing house is now obtainable and is re- ] Jensen & Mills Co., Ltd. tax, not to mention the tax on Money Mentioned; while phenomena such as rather morbid nature. In fact it is said
the tale better than many words. ceiving very favorable Tae | fis Changed from ep al ans aces tas ee cee Z Pett tr Tie a aan ee apent most of his time ponderTt will b that . t th able critics. sé ; | e€ amount one pays in the course of ealt Wl In a manner most unusual in hem: :
setae ‘alate te doubled. and that a | Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd. a year by the Theatre tax_would alone among the laiety. > ghapesd ‘aawties 7 aualiee ‘oor aa
the number of the permanent teaching TWO COLLEGES CLAIM ____ ss Pwo sTORES be interesting. While such small The Dr. discussed the claims made ¢lub-bag just as you leave for home, it
staff has increased still faster. The pro- BASKETBALL ORIGIN Sh tintin Gacden Bead amounts total up unobserved the In- by the more ardent of Shakespeare’s might cause some deep thinking. As a
Aauotive endowment has increased be- Commenting on the rival claims of ! pring Garden oa come tax does not pass unnoticed; and admirers that he was in advance of Matter of fact, the results weren’t bad.
twoan: three. and four timea andthe the University of MeGill in Montreal, 119 Young Street when we consider Town Taxes, or the the Science of his day, for instance that Not content with the above mentionvalue of the physical equipment in and of Mount Union College in Alliance, General Property Tax with an addition- he was in possession of the facts con- ¢4 horseplay, our young Adonis got rebuildings. grounds, equipment and ap- Ohio, relative to the origin and origina- Tana a a al $5.00 as Poll Tax, the matter is cerning the circulation of the blood be- ligious during the holidays. The graft
paratus between five and six times. A jr basketball, the ‘‘ Purdue Expon- | a . mind again. Still we eon- fore the publication of the ‘‘De Moter.’’? that some people get away with! It
very significant fact is that whereas the ent says: — ee ITILLINERY and CUSTOM TAILORING. nue and come to Customs Duty, This Dr. Harris showed to be pushing must have been a case of mistaken idenincome has increased to nearly four ‘Rival claims as originators of bas- Correct Styles. Lowest Prices. which while rather indirect to most of hero worship to extremes, but there are tity at least. For how else could the
Be Ateies HO een eint ‘twalve years ago, and ketball were put forth sometime ago by us is included in the ‘‘price;’’ and then references in Shakespeare ’s works football manager qualify for the Toron, one umber of students only doubled. McGill University and Mount Union [== how pleased we are to hear that there is which are very difficult to understand to trip. Why, he has to keep his eye off
yet the University cannot make both College. ; ea : no duty on such and such an article— unless he was acquainted with modern Barnhill’s movements to know when it
ends meet and has to record a deficit **Mount Union points with pride to. 7 ( But there is 6% tax.’’ This brings scientific facts, It is probable that in 18 Sunday. One day last year Barney
| every year. In other words a student’s 2 tablet in their gymnasium with an | to mind the Sales Tax and so, on and on some of these instances he was nearer to Went home Wednesday afternoon. and
fees pav a small rt onlv of the cost of inscription to the. effect that the first | Colwell Brothers We BO until we find that the 1923rd is a the truth than he realized. the next day Charlie appeared for
hi cog EF y basketball game was played there in } Tax on Receipts—we console ourselves . , . breakfast at nine-thirty. He wore no
| his education. . up | + sis he think! aah cane es In presenting his subject Dr. Harris a ae
' Dalhousie has every reason, there- 1892. The nae oe. a =a ae bl ea t ~ Poe ten its . briefly sketched the extent of scientific collar, but a sweater buttoned up to his
| fore, 'to be proud of her advancement, lication, ad We a ane ee 453-457 BARRINGTON STREET 2 ates ove ees ower knowledge with regard to Medicine and oni, ’
} 4 lly. in the United States which can estab- and echo answers ‘‘What next”? ; Everyone is glad to see Phinne
| and her future prospect is equally .,. ; | the human body at this period and gave salad , y
bright. She is offering every year bet- lish the claim that basketball was play- 123 YOUNG STREET pT”. many delightful quotations f th back again. It is hoped that the erutches
hee opp ortunities to those who come to Previous to this date.”’ great Pak” ; Fom tie may soon be sent to the kindling pile.
ata Tt te ant on anecnnt of Wit cee the McGill paper comes the HATS BAGGAGE A MODERN P , And that will be in a very short time,
2 present pon dition or her fature pros- claim that Dr. Naismith, graduate of MEN’S FURNISHINGS RODUCTION. At the’ conclusion of the lecture Mr. at the rate he gets about now.
i Eiiie thek Dathouste thvoure Telneation that school, invented the game as a re- Werner Laurie have published a Charles Baxter in moving a vote of Several new chaps are with us this
Ru, of the Maritime colleges. Were Dalhou- sult of a deliberate attempt for weeks HENRY 8 COLWELL. ).occc.occcccccccosecse: President small book entitled Beaver, by John thanks took the opportunity to express term. Pine Hill has sent over a small
be sas thinitnw caly of eeeaiit ie evident ¢? evolve a game suitable for men to GARNET J. COLWELL.................. Vice-President Kettlewell (Is.) It elaborates the game. his satisfaction not only in being pre- New Year contribution, which is greatHis teat she vycld not be working to lose Play indoors. RAY J. COLWELL svoessss sss DAR The different Beavers” are illustrated, ‘ent but also in the fact that it was not ly appreciated. It is nothing but the
| hher identity in college federation. She ,, ~He idea of baskets came from the ‘ and the scoring values are noted: ‘The Necessary for him to take any notes. best that Pine Hill sends out.
~~ favours some scheme of confederation 0/4. game of ‘Duck on the Rock.’ Dr. Imperial Beaver,’ ‘The Fringed Beav- With the clearness and brevity for The return of Whit Archibald, who
les: henausse whé gees that that would bring Naismith used peach baskets at either er,’ ‘The Heclesiastical-King-Beav- Which he is noted Mr. Gordon Bruce was at the Hall last year, is welcomed
bi state aid, and that without this our end of the gymnasium, placed them ten er,” “The Queen Beaver,’ ‘‘The Santa- seconded the motion. The gathering by all his friends, pharmaceutical and
ee youth cannot get the very best education- feet high and used the galleries for a Oe Beaver,’’ ‘The Ursine-Beaver,” “The signified its approval in an enthusiastic otherwise, ae
es support. HA, a eee oe A Vandyck-Beaver,”’ ete. The disappear- Manner and after the President Mr. F. Archie Robertson is also back again,
lige Ah a bt New Wear 40 ‘¢At first nine men were used. The |] tearm the Alphabet from a music dealer's text book. ance of the beard was in Schopen- L. Moore had formally tendered the Archie spent his first year here, and '
bate the G od se oF ith ten ii number was reduced to seven and later nn ths Miia hauer’s opinion, though he himself was thanks of the meeting to the lecturer has ‘been appearing intermittently ever
a coe Om tee é to five, as the skill of the men develop- ‘Auto Sasien, a splendid specimen of ‘‘The Half- and Dr. Harris had spoken a few words Since, sometimes only a nocturnal visit i
Gee A. Stantey MacKenzie. — ed.’’—*‘ McGill Daily” ; Cremonaphones Saran Cellos, Fringed Beaver,’’ a barometer of civili- in appreciation of his audience the however. i
i a | pons Clarionets, Drums. tion. The East has always been the crowd broke up for home with the feel- | d
ze etal No. ‘Stadants Well-time Ausaal Productive Buildings EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC. home of reverence for the beard. In ing that another evening had been well | NOTICE ! |
Py nara aaa ye ro E ae sh ine We ie ote 5. sins at se re 5 | The Arabian ae we are told that spent. me stage © ae
Se oe Staff Expenditur Endowm _ unds a = esol or ; ee pence dias en Allah has especially created an angel Ph ane first trial debate for the inter- il
1912-43 ......397 970. «17 58.900 $ 490,000 $250,000 "Lending Beclety, 2c per day. =f i heaven who has no other occupation «14 Man Dope” was certainly baa- °OUegiste team will probably be held
a, 1918-19 ...... 344 185——(its«éd2 83 jake Crue A. McDONALD PIANO ~ _ pat to sing the praises of the Creator jy upset when the Wanderers took the Manny Doo eh eet in the
19 pe a dais ee eee oT OR SIC CO. LTD, so]. ss ot Siving 4 beard to men and long hair frst City Hockey League game from the aaare i Other trials will, be
teve ~& MUS! 2 we Cs Piamaeaiie Yaak Wok by. & four eld imm y after on convenient

      

ph 1919-20 eee
a 9 . 21 peice a
ie. , oe 712

—_—-s1
“jute ta? , |. Li
oe toe
"]

ei): feo co Bd
8 a by tyr uv i i We ihe : ni
re a |, - Seles ,
me el ae A" | ; : a seh 1
roe ee iS '
= tei

Yh

122,400

1920. _ 169,200 nisstefet wise oven dates. Sodales will endeavor t
q oft, orte Seore. The Red Shirt's superior the finals and the universi : a
Or eee OO the telah Saat by the end of ‘Janeen: oie

WT
(By Staff Correspondent)
Paris, Dec. 22.

Your correspondent is in much the
same position as the diligent student
who enters the Macdonald Memorial
Library without any particular aim in
view. There he finds so much he would
like to read, that he ean make no choice
and generally ends by reading nothing
at all. In Paris one finds so much to
write about that it is difficult to start
and more difficult to end. The only
solution would seem to be to confine
oneself to what might possibly be of interest to Dalhousians.

When one speaks of Paris one naturally thinks of styles; and I notice,
not without regret, that Parisiennes at
least are living up to the decree ‘‘ They
shall be longer’’. Large picture hats
also seem much in evidence and fur
coats or "semble fur’ seem mostly to
be full length. The minute details I
have not noticed, but high heels are
even higher than one supposed. The
men look much the same, spats everywhere predominant, but being closely
pressed by cloth topped boots; a small
percentage of monacles; canes generally. The cosmetic concerns also seem to
be thriving.

In the interests of education your
correspondent visited the Latin quarter, the rendezvous of both Franch and
foreign students. After a perusal of
R. W. Service’s latest I really expected
it to be more exciting than it was.
Like their brethren everywhere
throughout the world, the students of
the Quartier Latin burn the midnight
oil, But not so much in study as in
p.easure. About midnight they congregate, in one of the numerous cafes of
the quarter, order a glass of beer, or
wine and dance, smoke cigarettes and
talk until morning. All classes are
there, artists, old and young, sometimes
in wierd clothing,—medicals, lawyers,
eic. I did not inquire but I do not believe they have such an unholy institu- tion as a nine o’clock lecture, I am
sure they have no 90 of 100 per cent
attendance rule. There are about 30,000 students in Paris, practically all
being in the Quartier Latin. The Sorbonne or University of Paris is the

it to their advantage. They all try to
do something for you ether you
want it or not. If you ask someone the
time, they will walk with you for a piece
talking all the time, point out to you a
clock, then wait for the tip. Personal
experience would seem to suggest that
one-half the male population of Paris
are taxi-drivers and policemen, the
other half guides and incipient recipients of tips.

We landed at. Boulogne. For the
first ten minutes, not knowing the custom of the country, we fought gamely
for the possession of our bags. But in
the end we were outmianouvered. Having set down our luggage for an instant,
it was immediately pounced on by half
a dozen stalwarts and borne off in triumph. Professor Smith may tell you
that it is no contract where one party
has no option but to accept a service
rendered. This may be English law,
but it does not prevail in France.

We experienced our first taxi-driving episode when we landed at the Gore
du Nord in Paris. The French hold
most of the world’s motor records.
They have a most excellent recruiting
ground in the taxi drivers of Paris.
Hardly any traffic control, even in the
busiest of streets. Where we use
brakes, they use the horn.

Pedestrians walk the street at their
own peril. If they get run over they
are brought into court for obstructing
the traffie. Sometimes they are, but
generally an action will be only against
their executors or administrators.

The secret of Parisian variety
seems to be in the omnipresence of
mirrors. It is a nice question, whether
the mirrors made Parisians vain, or
was it innate vanity that produced the
mirrors. Anyway they confront one
on every hand—in the hotels, the cafes,
the stores, they take the place of panelled walls. Imagine a rink surrounded by mirrors ! The Palais de Glace in
Paris is such a one. It is circular in
form, artificial ice of course, and instead of rough wooden tiers of seats,

the spectators sit at tables and are
served with all the latest mixtures

during the progress of a game. To
protect the mirrors, they lower a net

behind the goal. But I still shudder

ALT CT RL Ee ET
Mg } ‘ o « F 4,’

f iy ‘i y nar ae et a5 Ta Saw LA Te ay cee ier
s ; j * t ie #
eee ee

Parisian restaurants are interesting. From my experience ‘‘table
d’hote” is now a.thing of the past in
the land of its origin. It does not give
enough exercise for ingenuity. Here
the ‘‘a la carte’’ system proves its
superiority. And besides, it is much
more intellectual and mathematical.
Your correspondent has made a faithful study. of all the lesser known cafes
and restaurants in the immediate vicinity. They are all much the same. Not
being able to decipher the menu you
blind.y take a chance. It may be or it
may not be. The climax comes when
you ask the garcon for ‘‘l’addition
S. V. R.’’. It is a most fitting name.
Everything comes separately, and it all
forms part of l’addition. Herein enters the mathematics. After the garcon has added up the long column you
have your innings. The general rule
is 10% for the tip or service. After
the first day we learned to devote two
hours to each meal—half an hour to decipher the menu, half an hour to eat
and an hour for I‘’addition’’. .

The guide book tells me there are a
great number of things one should see
in Paris. Conscience forced me to see
some of them. Others I feel would be
well worth a visit. And perhaps I will
see them next time. The Louvre itself
would take a week, the Invalides, which
seems to be mainly. a museum of
Napoleonic
busy a fortnight. There are a hundred
other places of equal interest. One
really ought to see them to say he has
seen them. Failing that the only thing
to do is to consult the Encyclopaedia.

But enough. Switzerland tomorrow.

J. ANGUS.

EXCHANGES

The Gazette acknowledges with
thanks receipt of the following publications:—MceGill Daily, The Varsity,
Sheaf, The Gateway, The Ubyssey, The
Argosy Weekly, The Student, The Trinity University Review, Managra, Western U. Gazette, King’s College Record,
The Athenaeum, The Ypsi Sem.,,
Xavierian.

LT AP ea He Re aa ae
ERT a Oe Ny
, ty ‘ag “.' ‘ :

relicts, would keep one

SITE RV AT PRL PT UE TLR TSI pI NEE
oy] = rl w : mR , ear CA ie ; - , ot

,

ee

t

ae TL, wy. =

ae AP a ree eet ie =
ae ay, te a my

z ; a? Et ; TT =
‘ , y ‘ MG Ry 4 . SPs Moe ; T ai a Fes A
; i # of “ - wv: T , .

[ 1 yf ; : i . ays ~ *

: ‘ ‘ '
- - :

a '
7 \

 

rT SSS

The Opportunist.

The Sultan’s life, the old song tells
us, 1s full of jollity. His wives are
many as he will and all of them are safely inclosed in a _ world-tight harem.
Three hundred thousand college boys
for generations have melodiously and
plaintively wished that they the Sultan’s throne might fill. But few of them
have done it. It remained for the one
man in the United States really fitted
for the job to step into the Sultan’s
shoes as he seuffed them off and fled
down the back stairs and out through
the kitchen garden. That man is Florenz Ziegfeld. We do not mean to say
that he has taken on all responsibilities and dangers that go with the position of Sultan. He has not even taken
on all the wives. But when the abandoned beauties sat mournfully watching the departing back of their protector and lord, Mr. Ziegfeld stepped courageously into the breach and purchased seven of the most Circassian of the
beauties to adorn the next instalment of
his Follies. And so, being generous and
opposed to the Oriental idea of concealing and secluding the female sex, Mr.
Ziegfeld not only becomes a sort of Sultan in his own right but gives us all a
chance to achieve Sultanhood. We can
sit and listen to the most languishing of
Turkish loye songs from young women
reclining on the Sultan’s own best sofa
cushions, and do it all for a price that,
high as it is, falls short of the cost of
being a real Sultan. The American college boy’s wish may yet come true.

—‘The Nation.”

INTER-FACULTY HOCKEY
LEAGUE.

The Inter-Faculty Hockey League
will open next Saturday night, Jan 13th.
All games will be played at the Arena,
starting at 7.30 p. m. and before the
Skating Club. Four teams, Law, Arts,
Meds and Dents, are members of this
league.

Schedule will be announced during
the present week.

  
  
 
  

 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Gazette wishes to acknowledge
receipt of subscriptions from the following :—

Rev. John McMillan, Pres. W. @.
Murray, Profs. Geo. Wilson, R. McG.
Dawson, Dr. G. H. Murphy, Messrs. M.
M. Hall, G. F. McRae, A. L. Chipman,
Prof. H. P. Bell, Misses Minnie Shiers,
Jean Fraser.

J. R. NICHOLSON,

Business Manager

WATCH FOR NATIONAL CONFERENCE NUMBER OF GAZETTE
NEXT WEEK.

BOOKS MISSING FROM THE
LIBRARY.

(The following is a partial list of
the volumes missing from the Library.
Perhaps some absent-minded student—
or possibly, professor—may remember
that he has one in his possession and
will return it. Thank you Ed.)

Arnold, Matthew. Poems. 2yv.
Birrell, A. Obiter Dicta. 1st series.
Borring, L. 8. Dictionnaire Danois
Francais.

Burke, Edmund. Select works. v. 1.

1874.

Butler, Bishop. Works. 2v.
Bryce, James. Modern Democracies. 1.

v. (v. L valuable).

Byron, Lord. Prisoner of Chillon.

Caesar. De Bello Gallico. 1887.

Cajori, F., History of Elementary Mathmatics,

Canadian Grenadier Guards. Photographic record.
Carlyle, Thomas. On Heroes. 1872.

Cicero. Daelius de Amicitia.
Cowdell, T. D. Nova Scotia’s Minstrel.

   
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 

ear

the work.

 

| New Green Lantern |

GIFT SUGGESTIONS |

A comprehensive assortment of attractive Gifts, rare in
, a _ reasonable in prices, are to be found in Birks
00

We make School and Class Pins, submitting sketches on
request, giving an estimate of cost before proceeding with

nes, Susan. Story of Arithme
ie.

DeMille, J. Helena’s Household, 1867,

Dowden, Edward. History of French
Literature.

Drury, T .W. Introduction to the study
of the Scriptures.

Faguet, A. E. Dixneavienre Siecle
études Litteraires.

YOUNG MAN’S STO

ee
.

——

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,

Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and inspect our stock
before purchasing.

W. F. PAGE "rrington sizen

HALIFAX, N. §,

 

Your Education

is not complete if confined to
printed books and lectures.
Visiting the interesting and
popular places in every city
helps a lot.

    
     
   
 
 
  

 

We know of no place more popular
or interesting in Halifax than

    
    

THE——

 

  
 
 
 
   

  

 
  
  
   
 
   
  
   

to think what would hhappeen if som

  
  
 
 

      
   
 
   
  
 

 

“ ‘ce wien mB FOS =

  
   
  

 

  
 
  

    

name of ‘tthe Central institution. They bit off on the F

have some fine buildings, the only one °"° WO * Oh Om eee MEN’S RESIDENCE |

ing. Here in the library was the same _ the sian ice hockey team the | | 4

Atrantive group of students, about the past week, and on both English teams There are still a few good rooms or a
of girls as at Dal- were old Dalhousians. With Oxfo ee Godot

  

~~ -game_ percentage
_. housie, the same dog-eared texts. Par'  _ isian students wear no gowns but the
official headdress is a black ‘‘tam”’
' effect, pulled down over one ear.
- Tips, taxi’s and guides are the bane

| ome Sore Arts

Henri Binet, who attended the Dal
Law School in 1919. With Cambrid

“Bred” Jones, who starred for |

 
     
  
 

 

=

 
  
 

 
 

Henry Birks & Sons Limited
493-497 BarrincTon Street

         

d

es ee : 7 : " i : 7

‘ eel es
| ae 4
tue 7
ya —
- of the traveller in obpinson's Ulothes
wl ag : f - »
ae , P oe |e t os — r ae, ao =e — - * Se =
Ay erated ge wl pale 5 oe Rie Metis oot
> me ; a ti Mg Ps, F , of 4
bh c € oe tite tah Ak 5 JULY
<A 5 Pe. ih 3 F e Wh), Ae a aes. — eee ae Pe) a) ;
: xis = 1 ie ee ae ae Sa eee tad 2 1 tas

Te

By

om
<a

.  ~=6sEe re riG’ | LLU a= ar
7 : a i... ——. — — ] "
i pad eT Lo PS oe eg we 2, LE ae) Ne
i pfs) pals ic ae ee 2 a: nal
A 7 a ‘ bes te
Ml | a
, qj ie We

= ~ : . e "3
a Ae at)

yh,
re

a) Sere aggre ee
i ind a c=

7 ii ' A 2
j cael a) we iad as Li
Ce Po ane ee Koy Ue he : : =i 7. s o
ws - 1 : 2 ‘, mre J mu bi
ref is 4g. , = FaP a : 4 A fered i 7
Ly a vs p, we ® oye. rus z —_ = ‘sy 2 ' ‘
=e 1 ee ae ta a Je Shee ihe ; Ne
ut . fe et age a Maes) a) lem See Oe ie ORT iy aL oe
‘ eo, a ' ise a ai , w= = river ‘i |
= SA ae te 3 SS yurres Si = a Pr. wn” Se Fi " F
é =o 2" EP oe eee eae ; 4
f are re r a :
= t f
, za 4 fi Ly A

eet =i = 3 bleee td
at Woe esgt eK a aie

Se i oe d«
} Wi ate “1 i 1 sf (lc Adal, 2d .
mH pt Aaa si Nig + (i a . |
= = 2 Nea“ ai "|
es i a _ » i #

ae! Soe) Pee eee oe hg LC 7 Px =: =y ai <= § > , f=
| wre,” ss : 5 ae = - i. i a a A& ' 7 = ite i == te
NSE Ea Ca ee a SRG, a eR per RT hie des Miah | 00a Lt
. el ‘ piled ntl J po Les. =. re f ana a =S= TPA e
fuse iy aie teh ee A nm anole Sy heb hs a eet arta el A
¥ am ? = a. bam, ong ae : 4 =4 Ce S x ae ny hE Tah *
=e 3 8 ee at a eG i ee eee. | vr el
fe sy Lt TEA Ne? ‘i 2 ee eae ek ete pe
ee Rd ey Pee he : ‘it hw i Bey) > Pua oy 4m,
aie ee de ae Vat alg, ae du

=
==
 

«1.  hSClCU 72 + 7 wr aT t na eT Sr eae ee ee ae a RE cL ee PTT Ie ea ee PUTT, ee TT, Cee, {TIM PSC o RC! SE Pee par Py 28 Re yA a re’ Th | ey w i Ye ee eee cary EPS Oe Ce mre Tis UN UM Yo ee Pe a ET ea, a a Ree Nr Brie rer be Pk Says aa Wee 5 ? oe " ie oy , eae Tal aes
na j 7 f ; ? , “ : Prins! : . ek. a ¥ re 45 nea 26S ¥ Yo¥ we ey Ay More 4 ty iy on mere AMY uy Tey ee 7% ne mrgm ; at ver ; wpe’ v 7 re ag, a at i 2h . aga SAD oh g SIE cig an ae \ i> Rt .) a ae “uh PIED. ? Hues raha ep: Ge Ake” fais @, | Sayer Acer aw ree ND hy 4 SA nce paid Rae a ea. bai er el dra tpivens Maen 3 tas Lae pote owt , a i Hy =X . ‘4 # |
' ames ; +4 . : - ns ‘ ° eikl % ; vt BLAS veaigied any edi bag ; : <¢ ny th : oe. * r - ’ Rind aS ? ; vie ; : ~—— re a ; , F : f ; : ' ¢ Lae
: 7 ~ ’ - . Yim x. q
F - ye : a
t ; >
6 |
—_ -_——
nono enemas LA LD eaten = ee enous
oo an Sins sstdiicisnigeenadniiiesinstoseneeeeeees eeetnnn

 

 

: _ eee
ese PREPS

 

Student Exonerated

Maddin Commission Submitted Fimdmg
im Law Library Controversy.

Now that the Maddin Commission
has published its Report which clears
one William Morrison of the charge
of making discourteous remarks “to
‘The man from Bible Hill’’ there is a
rumour going the rounds that ‘‘Jeg’’
proved his antipathy to the contemplation of Truth in the evidence which he
gave before the commission. ;

An abstract of his evidence will
prove that this rumour is totally without foundation. In answer to questions
regarding his official duties Jim stated,
‘“T was appointed to the Library first
of all because of my familiarity with it.
I know where practically every book
is in the Library though I don’t think
we have Thompson’s Reports. The assiduousness which I showed in the pursuance of legal attainments in my two
years sojourn at Dal no doubt was
largely responsible for my appointment
to my present lucrative position as
Librarian in chief of the Dalhousie Law
School. Dean MacRae recommended
me for the job. I treat the boys generously but sometimes I ask them to replace the books they use.’’

While Mr. Morrison has been cleared of the charge of refusing to replace
the books, ete., it must be borne in mind
that he had a star witness in ‘‘the man
from the garden of the Atlantic’’ more
familiarly known as ‘‘Nuisance”’. This
witness spoke of his affection for Bill.
—**T love him dearly’’, he said,’’ ‘‘in fact
we sleep together’. ‘‘Nuisance swore
on Equity that he and not Morrison
was the speaker of the words mentioned
in the charge. He also stated that even
if he had little else he had a conscience
of which he was proud.

And what of Wm. Harold Morrison?
Jim tells us he would be a model for any
first year Student—all agree with him.
One statement given by Mr. Morrison
in his evidence is worthy of note. Asked if he always told the truth, he replied,

'~ Tf am from Cape Breton.’’

THE HOME OF

ATHLETIC GOODS

Including Spalding’ 5
_ Famous Goods.
, Football and Track Outfits.

Here you will find men of
your own age and interests
to serve you with things you
. want at prices you can pay.

 

  

Mention should be made of the oratorical abilities displayed by learned
counsel representing both sides. R. A.
MacLeod, K. C., was extremely effective
in the cross examination of the witnesses. Mr. Mahoney’s eloquence stirred the heart of the chairwoman.

D. C. C.

CORRESPONDENCE

(The Gagette accepts no responstbility for views expressed m this
column, !

Correspondents are requested not
to. exceed three hundred words.)

 

 

MONKEY-GLAND MAN.
WONDER OF HARLEY STREET.

Several Harley Street specialists
gathered the other afternoon in a flat
near Baker Street, London, to prod and
punch the seventy-six-year young Mr.
Liardet, the Englishman on whom Dr.
Voronoff grafted monkey glands.

Mr. Liardet liked it. Old men hate
being punched: suddenly in the back, but
as some unknown monkey has given him
at least thirty years of his life back, he
treated it just like any other young fellow would have done, and even punched
them back!

‘‘To I look 76 years old?’’ he cried
fiercely to a spectacled old man of 35
who timidly asked him if he really felt
fit.

‘‘N-no! You look about 40!’ cried
the other, retreating. But he was not
allowed to escape. Mr. Liardet caught
him by the shoulder and grasped his
hand with the enthusiasm of an orangoutang’

‘‘How’s that grip for a man of 76?”

The poor old man of 35 said it was
collossal and went round showing his
white, crushed hand to the other visitors.

Before he met monkey glands Mr.

Liardet stated that he could not walk |

without a stick. Two months after he
was skipping about: like a lamb, and
even dancing. |

The specialists who accepted Mr.
Liardet’s invitation to feel his arms and
his legs looked at each other over their
glasses and said, ‘‘Marvellous.’’—Daily
Express.
Editor Dalhousie Gazette:

Halifax, N. 8.,,

Dear Sir :— |

Enclosed is a clipping from a London
news paper. Bats

Could an Endocrinologist of the

Physiology IV Class give me an opinYours truly,
T. I. D. Crsum.

is a )

‘
*
\ ft

EF tad

ion as to the reliability of this account? —

Prof.—What’s a dry-dock?
Stude—A physician who won’t
write prescriptions.

‘Why

eream??’’

 

doesn’t the devil eat ice

_ Why, where in Hell would he get .
it???

 
  

YOUR DRUG
MACLEOD & BALC

LIMITED
SOUTH END PHARMACY
Morris Street.

WEST END PHARMACY
Spring Garden Road.

NORTH END PHARMACY

Young Street,

LORNE PHARMACY

Agricola Street.

OXFORD PHARMACY
Quinpool Road.
“Five Places of Safety”

  
     
     
       
   
       
   

 

Your Future? | |

Some day, perhaps to-mor| row, you will need money.

 

If you have not saved what
will you do?

If you have been wise and
have saved the future will
not worry you.

The easiest, quickest and
| | most. satisfactory way to
obtain money is to save it.

Save from your allowance
now, make regular deposits
in the Bank and financing
your needs will be the least
of your worries later on in
life,

THE
ROYAL BANK
OF CANADA

 

Glasgow 2. No penalties.

Semen

Tigers’ Training Trip
Reported by G. M. G., ’26.

New Glasgow, the center.of eastern
Nova Scotia sport, was Dalhousie’s
hockey training headquarters during
the post-Christmas season.

While in Pictou County the Gold
and Black played four games, winning
the first and losing the remainder. Lack
of a sufficient number of spares was the
Tigers’ most apparent handicap during
the entire series.

The Dal personel included ‘‘Duke’’
McIsaac, Allan Dunlop, ‘‘Brickey’’
Dunn, ‘‘Fabie’? Bates, Mont Haslam,
‘Brick’? Morrison, Parker Hickey, and
Stuart Somers; Charlie Beazley, Manager; W. EK. Sterling, Trainer; W. F. Hogan, Asst. Trainer; and Lee Fluck,
Coach.

This year the boys really trained.
Their daily program was roughly as
follows: 7.30 A.M. rising ‘hour, followed by a half hour of physical drill.
8.30 A.M. breakfast. 10 A.M. until
noon, hockey practice, folowed by a
light lunch. 5.00 P.M., all gathered at
the hotel for a rest before supper. Each
of the games began at 8.15 P.M.

The first game was on Thursday,
Dec. 28, against New Glasgow in the
New Glasgow rink. The line-up was the
same here as in the following games:
MeclIsaac, Goal; Dunn and Dunlop, Defence; Captain Bates, Center; Haslam and Morrison, Wings, and Hickey
and ‘Somers, Spares.

The game began with a rush, and immediately Bates shot. He did not score,
but in the melee in front of the New
Glasgow goal one of their defence players accidentally slipped the rubber into
the net for Dal’s first count. A few
minutes later, Bates scored on a long
shot. New Glasgow scored just at the
end of the period. Score Dal 2, New
Glasgow 1. No penalties.

_ At the opening of the second period
Morrison scored for Dal with a pretty
wing shot. New Gasgow soon retaliated
with another score. From the face off
Bates rushed from center and once more
dented the twine for Dal. A few minutes

later, Morrison making the most spec
tacular rush of the game, took the puck
from near his own goal, stickhandled
through the entire New Glasgow team,
and scored. Period ended, Dal 5, New

al Wins

|
|

 

Captain Fabie Bates.

score in Dal’s favor. There were no
penalties.

Space will permit only a brief sketch
of the other games. On Friday, Dee.
20th, Dal played an all star Pictou
County team in Stellarton and were
nosed out, 5 to 4.

The third game of the series provided the largest score. It was against
Thorburn in New Glasgow. The
‘‘Miners’’ used five spares, and tired
the Tigers out. The score was 7 to 3
but the play was very close.

The final game was a ‘‘heart breaker’’, Antigonish played Dal in Stellarton and won, 2 to 1.. Dal scored once
in the first period. The second was
scoreless. Halfway through the last
period Antigonish tied the score, and
scored again with about thrity seconds

to go, for a win. The game was fast

throughout.
The Dal boys were guests at a reception in their honour at the home of

Miss Dorothy Graham, Dal. ’23, on New

_ Year’s afternoon, where they enjoyed

themselves immensely.

h | ee Sone
he annual New Glasgow
Ball. baa

ity Basketball Opener

 

 

 

 

Dal Wins In Brilliant Game

Mwur Scores High.

Dalhousie Varsity Basketball Team
won its opening game in the Senior City
League on Saturday evening, January
6, at the Y. M| C. A. Gym., by a score of
29 to 19 over the Y. M. ©. A. team. The
line-up of the teams with the number of
points scored by each player follows:
Dalhousie :

Forwards—Muir 10, Mader 2. Center—Grant 8, Guards—Wilson 9, Coster,
(Capt.) Spares—G. MacOdrum, Miller.
Y.M.C. A.

Forwards—F rew 9, Lucas 2. Center
—Whitlock 4. Guards—Cregg, Worsley 4. Spares, Holmes, Piers, Hamilton.

The Wanderers defeated St. George’s
31 to 8 in a fast game.

SENIOR CITY BASKETBALL
SCHEDULE.
Jan. 6—Wanderers vs. St. George’s;

Dalhousie vs. Y.M.C.A.

Jan. 13—Y. M. C* A. vs. Wanderers;

St. George’s vs. Dalhousie.

Jan. 20—Wanderers vs. Dalhousie; St.

George’s vs. Y. M. C. A.

Jan. 27—Y. M. C. A. vs. Dalhousie; St.

George’s vs. Wanderers.

Feb. 83—Wanderers vs. Y. M. ©. A.;

Dalhousie vs. St. George’s.

Feb. 10—Y. M. C. A. vs. St. George’s;

Dalhousie vs. Wanderers.

All games are to be played at the
Y. M. C. A. Gym., the first to start at
8.00 p.m., and the second immediately
after the finish of the first.

Regret is heard on all sides that Lee
Fluck. star defence man. will not be with
the Dal hockey team this winter due to
an injured knee,

Toronto Varsity hockey  sextette
trimmed Harvard 7 to 6 at Boston, January 4th.

| Dalhousie Headquarters for
_ Sporting Goods |

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at 40 Sackville Street. We can
supply you with everything for Sport
Life. Also Pocket Knives, Razors,
Shaving Supplies.

We Stock Dalhousie Jerseys
and Stockings.

 

 
 

pee Shy
 

ES ———

LEMON EXTRACTS
(By I. M. Tite)

 

Jim Graham—‘‘Do you know, I’m
afraid to light a match in our room now
on account of the oil?’’

Barney—‘‘ Whaddayamean oil?”’

Jim—‘‘Tmperoyal!’’

 

I hate my woolen underwear,
I’m mad enough to bawl;

It itches here, it itches there,
The darn stuff seems to crawl.
And when I start to scratch somewhere,
That ain’t the place at all!

¥.

 

Latin Prof.—(pointing to bulge in
cheek of student who is industriously
masticating MacDonad’s Twist).

Quid est hoc? |

Stude—(producing twist).

Hoe est quid.

 

Technician (Looking through trainor’s locker in Dental Lab.)

‘‘Mr. Trainor—you had
write a letter to Santa Claus’’.

better

 

Little Jimmie was present when
Papa slipped on an orange peel. For a
few minutes the air was blue, then little
Jimmie turned to his mother and said:
‘‘Mama, how did Papa know that it was
a blood orange?’’

THE LEADING BOOKSTORE |

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text
a , Engineers’ Supplies of
a e “

Commercial and Society Stationery.

—Waterman’s Fountain Pens—

T. C. ALLEN & CO.

124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S.

   
       
    
       
     
     

UNGAR’S
How often a perfectly good
| garment is discarded because
it is soiled and stained. That
is because its owner does not
realize our wonderful process —

of French Dry-Cleaning, which
restores old clothes, and makes ©

La TF ae ie oo OY ee a Trey WK :
OS, en A ea Tr ew oe ee hs eae, eS
a y &, My 4 Me of si, 7 oo ; ‘ a 7 &

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SKATING CLUB MEETS
SATURDAY.

The first assembly of the Dalhousie
Skating Club will take place at the New
Arena on Saturday evening, January
14th at 7.30 p.m. After prolonged negotiations the executive has succeeded
in making arrangements with the rink
management for one evening per week
for the winter season. A strenuous attempt was made to secure the traditional Wednesday evening, but this was
found to be impossible as the rink management had agreed to reserve that
evening for practice periods for the different teams in the city hockey league.
With hockey games on ‘Tuesday and
Friday evenings and Monday and
Thursday as public skating evenings,
the Skating Club officers had no alternative. The three hour period will, as
in previous years, be divided betwen inter-faculty hockey and general skating,
the first hour for hockey, the balance for
skating. There is, however, one important condition which must be mentioned here. The rink management insists, at the instance of their ice-maker,
that the skaters go to the right and left
alternately and this has been made a
condition of the contract which must
be performed by the club members.
It is a well-recognized fact that generally the custom is to skate alernately,
and it is not unreasonable to request
that the Club will follow this custom.

The regular Skating Club tickets
will be distributed this week and visitors’ tickets at a nominal sum will be
available from the various faculty
representatives. All are asked to cooperate with the executive in order that
the season will be a successful one.

 

. Forestalled.—‘Now what shall we
name the baby?’’ asked the professor’s
wife.

‘‘Why,’ ejaculated the learned man
in astonishment, ‘‘this species has been
named for centuries. This is a primate mammal—‘homo sapiens.’ ’’—The
Forecast.

| FOOTWEAR

Footwear for all times and sea
sons at the new LOW PRICES.

This is the Nearest Shoe Store
_ to Dalhousie. =

ee ee

 

R. J. LEARY
THE CLEANER

Cor. Argyle and Sackville Sts.

| Economize in your Pressing by buying a |
Strip of Four Tickets for $2.00. Tt

i Each ticket entitles you to have a Suit or |
Overcoat Sponged and Pressed. ]

Our Regular Rate is 75c a Suit,

| WE ALSO DO DYEING, DRY-CLEANING,
REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS. |

Phone Sack. 2054

    
    
    
   
   
   
     
   
 

      

STUDENTS!
DON’T THROW

YOUR OLD SHOES AWAY
Remember our GOODYEAR WELT SYS
     
   

tem that made this store 60 ular in
Halifax. If you haven’t done so before, try

     

i us now. It will be worth your while. |
| We will also renew your old hat so that

you will thank us for saving you the price
of a new one.

| THE SHOE HOSPITAL
| 428 Barrington Street
| SKATES SHARPENED HERE

 
  

 

 
 

FALL AND WINTER

| SUITS and OVERCOATS
TO MEASURE

     
 

   

    

Now is the best time to order
your SUIT or COAT. Fine display
of Imported and Domestic Suitings and Overcoatings — Blacks,
Blues, Fancy Worsted Tweed.

CLAYTON & SONS

JACOB STREET

    
   
   
   
    
 

 

 

= : iy # #
2 ; t ‘ Sg. f_ . $
‘ Da Ss dane +) ae Te oa . ns ‘ 7 a F \
BALE te ie eet yl as (ee: Dap (te. of) ee
. vi ney 1 cs j ike r a = ’ Ca 4 ie ae
fs er ae ae Ae!  goli rit
7 i r= : ae = 2 ve = a
oa > = = oJ 4
eo, ‘ aa}. mah. ‘ A ae eh hele 2.00
- ae. 7 : eS Per Us Ve 1%: . ob? 2k Pane Wi La 7 ne Ore a ¢
“ yh oe f . ey: ee i. ees ae ab | ; "
‘ i ie ih ea Ae ee ee on Pe ae sy at S

sf am a a *y a 3; ¥ = a: ede aS ‘i . “
> \
be ep ei ee tee ee re aes te wy ska a ce SS ‘aid — Oe ————
Pee ee eer ade Dieta SE va hae Vl eee al ae cee ee Clean ARV eR Ne dg Nhe eam Let >)
4 24 | alg hil r AR Oe eh og Fy eof Oh OM ec ae SS a ene a hae ah PP ia Ah = ae pee) fe

 
