 

 

 
 

 

ara

cn) re wi EE a
aE oe ert

Fat ye 4,

oF ‘4 "

i’
a @<
»

The Dalbousie Gazette

Founded 1869
Issued Weekly One Dollar Per Year

Business Manager ...................+++.+++..0. R, NICHOLSON, B. A.
Ms sii  rakintsysaeuctinar Ariens BRO A.

All Subscriptions and Advertising rates payable to the Business Manager.
Associate Editors

Social Editors ...... | MISS MABEL MORRISON
§ MISS EILEEN BURNS

Exchange Editor...... ; ..D. C. COLQUHOUN
Arte WGitor . ow secs ccc ce dse sees cde &. CALLAN
Dentistry Editor ...................M. C. QLAY

Law Boditor .........6seseee00++-+.-G, C. MACLEOD
Medicine Bditor ....................C, Re BAXTER
Pharmacy Editor ...................A, H. BEATON
Engineering ........--..+.ss++++++eh M, RICHARDSON
Sports Bditor ...........++++++++++d. A, DUNLOP

J. G. FOGO

Special Reporters

University Hall ....................W. G, POIRIER

Pine Hal... ckei cee. vere Vide Bee, ©. A
Marlboro ..........+++++++++++++.+ MISS ROBERTA FORBES
Commerce Society ..................MISS JUANITA O’CONNOR

Table of Contents

Cover Design ............ , secceeececeeeess Miss Freida I. Creighton

Literary Competition ..... Ha) Rr AS a eg SR SA arr
Convocation, 1922 ........ LU y LeteeD ROTO OE KEN LOREM Rbey 6% 60
Class ’22 Officers......... Wile Or Vee y UE sew REE SOREN R RR edb eoeeis
Class Day Exercises..........sseceeesees tense etter eeenn nese en eeneeeenannes
Standing in Literary Competition. ........ ..cccscssseeeeeneueeneeeeetseueaes
The Proposed Merger of the Maritime Universities ........:.cseeeeeeeeeeee

py OE OO er rg ore a ree ere are eee ray) err ae ee

@seeeeo*r? eee eoeeeveeoee ee es *eeeteeev eee eeeeeeeeeene .

. e Society's

a
KFovuows Sooo we

—
Dnporee

eeeevweoeeevoweeeeveee eee eeenee eee eee eee weer eweeeeebes

eeoeeveeeeeeseteeresea** eee ee ee

cing Be MacGr egor Fellowsh SUF 2:2 (SOS OS REE eee eae 6 6S 6.0: 9.0
‘Students Some tement ee
. Wi Che Engineers, .... 250 e ee eeese sees ceesccveeses
Pi eet eees see 'es Ee kW We TRC Cece eee eee eee ee
ews eoeeteeoneeeeeeee eee ee
PS ewies OCR bode eee eee CRO HEE Ce eesebeeeesrwerreserrerscers
. . Sor reer ee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee **

—sebee eee ee eee eee Settee tG eee eesseeeHeeeeeeeeeeet sense eeteees

; =e a eed a
Saws Bae a

 

 

 
B.A., (Editor); Miss Mabel Morrison; Miss Eileen Burns; J. A. Dunlop.

Mun ro, B.A.; W. G. Poirer.

R. M. Richardson; C. R. Baxter; L. A.

J. R. Nicholson, B.A. (Business Manager); C. F. Bowes,

—

D. C. Colquhoun
Miss Roberta Forbes; Miss Juanita O’Connor.

*
o

- The Editorial Board ofzthe Dalhousie Gazette 1921-22

Back Row: G. C. Macleod; R. F. Callan

Center Row

Front Row

fe, ee Fa
— Mb jdt eas i=
ite nT a deel? ss pore a ea

One a

 

ee enReeneEnEenS

 

 

The Dalhousie Gazette

 

Vol. LIV

 

EDITORIAL

 

NOTHIER epoch in the history of
Dalhousie University has passed;
the Class of 1922 have gone, and with
this number of the college paper the

present Editorial staff will also bid
farewell to old Dalhousie. It has been
» notable year in many respeets. ‘The

first event of outstanding importance
was the occupation of the new Arts
building, which will become the home
of Law Sehool when the permanent
Arts structure is completed. The
second event in our college year was the
proposed amalgamation of all the Marttime Universities. Of course we include also in the lists of our events the
success of the University Hockey Teams
in both the City and Intercollegiate
Leagues were they emerged on top.

The Gazette this year accomplished
what it had not previously done: an
eight-page issue appeared every week
and appeared on time. This was due in
no small measure to the splendid cooperation of the publishers with the
editorial staff and the two, working in
harmony, managed to keep matters
running smoothly. The regular departments were somewhat enlarged and an
associate editor was placed in charge
of each of them. In addition to this
Special Reporters furnished the latest
news from the various college societies
and faculties. Whenever possible pictures or cuts were useed in connection
with our news items.

The Literary Competition, so ably
inaugerated by the previous staff, was
continued and six students, all members of the staff were successful in
obtaining the award.

The Gazette staff this year came
through the regular examinations and
covered itself with glory. There were
no less than four prize winners on our
lists who were members of the Gazette
board and several others obtained high
marks in the year’s academic work.

Mr. J. Gordon Fogo, next year’s
editor, comes to the helm with a good
record behind him and the students can
be assured of a high-class paper during the coming year. Mr. Fogo is an old
newspaper man, not in years, but certainly in experience, and his work on the
Gazette during the first half of last
term was prolific.

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. S., MAY, 1922

 

No. 13

Winners of the Gold Literary D, Session 1921-22.

 

Front Row: Mr. D. C. Colquhoun; Miss Eileen Burns.

Back Row: Miss J. O’Connor;
Miss Mabel Morrison.

 

lt would not be fair, however, to
close this review without mention of
one man who, even more than any other,
has helped to make the Gazette what it
was during the past term. This is Mr.
D. ©. Colquhoun. No mere words of
the Kditor ean estimate the amount of
time and labor expended by Mr. Colquhoun on behalf of the University
paper, and every Dalhousian owes him
a debt of gratitude for this. His contribution to the paper in time and
material was one of the outstanding
features of this season’s literary efforts.
Mr. Colquhoun was the first member of
the staff this year to obtain the Literary D.

Of the ladies on the staff it would
he grossly unfair to pick ony one out
for special mention; they all deserve it.
In the rush of regular classes it is hard
to find time for contributions to the
college paper, but time was found; and
the contributions were regular and interesting.

We are glad to say that our Business Manager, Mr. J. R. Nicholson,
B. A., without whose assistasce we could
never have weathered a very severe
financial strain will still be with the
Gazette next session to direct things in
his usual capable manner. He needs
no words of praise from the present
incumbent of the editor’s chair to make
students appreciate his worth.

And now our task is finished. We
must bid farewell to old Dalhousie and
pass to new spheres of activity; and it
is with a feeling of profound regret that

Mr. L. A. Munro;

 

Mr. G. CC. Macleod;

we do this. The old friendships, the
old associations too, must some
to be renewed again perhaps, but many

Pass,

(Continued on page 6),

The Gazette Literary Competition.

Hii Literary Competition conducted

by the Gazette will reach the end
of its second year of existence with this
number of the college paper. During’
the past vear six Literary Ds. have
been awarded, bringing up the total
number. given to ten. In addition to
these a ID) was awarded, on tlfe sugges
tion of this year’s Business Manager
and Editor to Mr. R. D. MaeNutt, B.A.,
L.L.B., the Editor for the session of
1920-21. It was felt that Mr. MaeNutt
was deserving of some. slight reeognition for his spendid services to the col.
lege publication during the tenure of his
office, but the fact that he was Kditor
nrevented him from receiving the D.
The successful competitors this year
receiving the award were as follows:
Mr. D. C. Colquhoun, Mr. L. A. Munro,
M. A., (Miss M. Hileen Burns, B. A.,
Miss M. M. Morrison, B. A.), Mr. G.
(. Macleod, L. L. B.. Miss Juanita
Q’Connor). The awards were made in
the order given above. The runner up
this year is Miss Roberta Forbes, who
needs but two points now to gain her D.
The list of aspirants is given on page 9,
and ineludes all articles published in
this number.

 
4 THE DALHOUSIE

CONVOCATION -- 1922

The Fifty-Eighth Convocation of Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N. S., Held on Thursday, 11th May, 1922.

 

 

 

 

ORDER OF PROCEEDINGS

Invocation—Rev. Mr. Huddlestone,
introductory Statement by the President.

Announcement of Entrance and Undergraduate Prizes.

Entrance Scholarships

"he a. | Robert Fail Ross.
GEORGE FL, CAMPBELL MEMORIAL SCTIOLARSITIP. 6. cece eee eee , Katherine Mary Buttenshaw
Linsther klizabeth Mackay,
SiR WILLIAM YOUNG SCHOLARSHIPS. . cc 500 cecc secret eeebenvens yCarl Cowan Cofiin,
( Margaret McLeod.
SPECIAL MACKENZIF SCHOLARSHIP: cecesicc ce cteesveassreceeress Donald Olding Hebb,
UNIVERSITY SCHOLARSTUIPL ccs i sc ccetei ee ekereeeeeeeeeceeeceeenes vearl Young.
SPECIAL UNIVERSITY SCIIGLARSTIIP, Or serv iv i ovieeii err Ma rgaret—tiga—King.
HALIFAX CITY .PRER SCHOLARSHIP. ....0.00cc0cceesevcecvecseees Margaret Ruth Butler,

First Year Scholarships

Grorck H. CAMPRELL. Memorial SCMOLARSTUP.... .......68..fAnna Margaret Catherine Grant
{Katherine Hannington Covert,

Soereat MACRENZIC SCHOLARBEIPs c00 cciecceceevecertrsewennees Hugh Artworth Fraser.
Second Year Scholarships

ALLAN POLLOK SCHOLARSHIP. ... ccc cccccceccvecscevenrenscsses Katherine Mary Buttenshaw.

NortH BitishH ‘CENTENNIAL HURSARY.... ccc cecccccesacwcevons Robert Fail Ross,

CHARITABLE JRISH SOCIETY SCHOLARSHIP, .ci sec sccectees cones ‘To be awarded later.

CoMeMERCIAL ELUB FRU ccc ceca cercestpacbise cu stieeienes d¥e02 Douglas Sturrock Campbell.
Other Undergradute Prizes

ik an.) Serre rere er eer rer ree? SPE Leet eee ee James Eric Morrison and Gerald

Emmerson Misener, equal.

CarSweLL Prizes: (Highest standing in regular course
SO ne rae Se ere eres free eee ey re Ist year, Alastair Geo, Mackinnon
2nd year, Jas. Forrester Davison.
Hlowr ENouisu Prize Porm |
DEMILLE ENGLISH PRIZE ESSAY{ 00s ccc eereeeeeees To be awarded later.

(Founded by W. H. Dennis) J

Josep
JAMES

Conferring of Degrees on Undergraduates:

BACHELOR OF ARTS

Annatid, Charlotte Jean issscscccccnevessvcdsvecs Halifax.

Burts, Mary Bien vc ciidescsseccieieeverccvceee Halifax.

Commit, MAG ciccscccsrnsreesrvcevectvvactered New Glasgow, N. 5S.

Curtia, lLorothy Evelyn ciceseadaccenvececvereneus Halifax.

Foote, Jean NeiSOmn cc ccceccceeee eee eee ree eeenes Halifax.

Forsythe, Marion Louise ..cccccncererreneecnrnds Dartmouth.

Frame, Norma Elizabeth ...........0s.s+.++.++-Shubenacadie, N. 5S.

Fraser, Jean ENZabeth. cciccscrecececdccvevene ves Halifax.

Mackenzie, Nettle Margaret ....cccendecesccecces Eimsdale, N. S.

Mackinnon, Mora Catherine cescscccesisacvnenes Baddeck, N. 5S.

McLellan, Isabel Margarct ....ccsescccccesvecces Tatamagouche, N. S.

Maddin, Maty Olive issscscevcsstsnecccssscre ByGmey, N.S.

SMngee, Alice POAT ccicavcaqesrsesenestcvianeeedes Kensington, P, FE. 1.

Morrison, Mabel Margaret ccscccccscsetetobstees Halifax.

Murray, Jennie Violet ........0scsssseeceee+eeses Meadowville, N. 5.

Mustard, Emma Jennie crccicssccssrccnccvtscece Cardigan, P. E. L

Oxley, Charlotte Ferm cicccscsccececcevesvsusecns Halifax.

Medtick,. REDOGCCE ccvcciviecccrccuscsveccusecvaces Halifax.

Shaw, -lsabe] MUPray c.ccicscciccciscveivacereses Halifax.

Sister Agnes de Paul (in absentia) .......eeeee Rockingham.

Smith, Thelma Gertrude Cecelia ............+...Melrose Highlands, Mass.

Tyler, Ada& Victoria cosssescercceesnesesestesnces Halifax.

Waugh, Mary Berchmans Madeline (in absentia) Bedford.

Campbell, Herman Ethelbert ...............++..Montrose, N. 5.

Creighton, Howard Alexander .....s.ccseescseees Halifax.

Dunlop, John Alexander ....ceccceee ec ceeeeeeee Parrsboro, N. S.

Forsyth, [an Keitn seccssccccccscivecsavcscsctsens Dartmouth.

Gunn, William Alexander Douglas ..........++. Sydney, N. 5.

Inglis, George Roy ...ccccccecssccesisccucocceses NOK, Lochaber, N, 5.

MacDonald, Malcolm Campbell ......:0eeeeeeee Bradalbane, P. FE.

Mackinnon, Alastair ‘George .......0.0eceereeees Halifax.

Morrison, Patrick. Sarsfield ..i.ccccscccrvsncceees Point Tupper, N. S.

Morton, Silvanus Archibald ..cccecceeseeeceeeee Halifax.

Murray, Foster Sproul cis. csscccceceeesecencenes Halifax.

Richardson, Roderick MecDougald .......ccceeee Westville, N. S.

Shaffner, Geoffrey Chipman ....... Pees wba Ilalifax.

Smith, Sanford Arnold cisccsssscscscedescevseces Kast Mines Station, N. 5.

Webster, Donald Robertson .......ceccceseceenes Pictou.

Wyman, Maynard Brown .siccsisscecssieseeees Yarmouth, N. §&.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE

Kelley, Hugh Edgar ..cccccssscscvesccereccsseces Yarmouth.

Maxwell, Edward Gerrard wicccccisesesvescceens Halifax.

Ross, Doral Grant casccccsiccecsevcociseveceve Halifax.

Satman, Fred Everett (in absentia) .......s06+. Mahone Bay, N. 5S.
BacheLor or Laws

Chipman, Alvin Lewis .....ccsccseesecceceseeees Yarmouth.

Courtney, Basil Edward.... ..ccsscccccsssccceves Halifax.

Crowell, Kenneth Lee ...ccccccccccssecseeeeveees Sandy Cove, N. §.

Currie, Lauchlin Daniel, B.A., (St. F. X.)..... Glace Bay.

Dunlop, William Campbell ......:.ceeceeeeseens Parrsboro, N. 5.

Fielding, Ronald Manning, BA. ..ciceceeceeees Halifax. t

Grant, Donald Alexander, B.A. (Acadia) ...... Wolfville.

Green, Varian Sweetman, M.A. ...ssesseees -+ees Calgary.

Jones, Frederick Howard Marling, B.A. .....+. Dartmouth.

Lilly, Arthur Reginald wisccsccecccscecesceses + Calgary.

Macdonald, Roderic Churchill ...........4. wovee Halifax.

McFadden, J Sy eet rrretlet titer seeeee Canard, N, §&.

McInnes, Ritssell seeeas geaeeviaes tess Sepenedenert Lyon's Brook, N. 8.

MacKay, John Keiller ....cscscessceees steve; +++ Pictou,

Macleod, George Corbett .......6..seesees ceeeeese Varicouver,

Murray, Asbury Whitman ........s..ss00ees+++0s New Albany, N. 5S.

Murray, Norman Dudley .......4scseeeees ++peees Dartmouth.

Degrees

Presentation of Diplomas.

Award of Graduate Honours, Distributions and Prizes,

(GREAT DISTINCTION
Alice Pearl Moase.
Roderick McDougald Richardson,
DISTINCTION cccocsccdceasdevesovrcese petri ceverdeccenvenmes Jean Elizabeth Fraser.
Mary Eileen Burns.
: Mabel Cumming.
John Alexander Dunlop.
Rebecca Resnick,
GRADUATION Prizes AND MEDALS
AVERY PRIZE .ceccees pi eueodevesqeieens jaa0ee path td9080R Mabel Margaret Morrison.
Carswet. Prize: (Highest standing in regular course in
LAW) STA YOO ccccccccvveacrcccees covccsccees Francis Rowe.
UNIVERSITY MEDALS:
Faculty Of LAW csisvcccsccoveess éoa veaeeaeess Francis Rowe.
Faculty of Medicine .....ccssccssccseses .....Norman Howard Gosse.

Conferring of Higher Degrees.

Bissett, Ethel Freda Smith ...ccccccscsescccesvees By examination in Latin and English
_ Bowes, Carleton Frederic ..... Veuaoueens ieeieeas By examination in Tennyson.
McCurdy, William Harold ...cccccccsscceceeces By examination and research in
Physics.
Mackinnon, Ian Forbes (in absentia) .......... By examination in Philosophy.
MacNeil, John Neil ....... sevsdes peescceeceesess BY exam, in History and Economics.
Munro, Lloyd Alexander ..... ceesceeceececeveees BY examination and thesis in
Chemistry,
Nichols, Daisy Eliphal ....:..ssssevsess yetneetas By examination in Elizabethan
Drama.

VAZETTE

Nowlan, George Clyde, B.A. (Acadia) .......... Wolfville. .
Palmer, Richard Marshall, B.A. (Mt; A.) ...... Gagetown, N, B.
Monk, [AM DOGMIG ByIVOMOS ccc cccsccceccesesonas Halifax.

Rowe,. Francis,. 8.A.; CBR. Ad ccvecevecnsessaens Cupids, Newfoundland.

Since, SYGREY BCTV, Bes. scedescssetetiveess Kast Chester, N. S.

Doctor oF MerpicINE AND MASTER oF SURGERY

Crome. Grace ‘2REresA MALY ihccsisvevscenedesees Halifax.
(relation: Aims. B.. CIM oocededtewecescexwenenss Halifax.
MacLeod, Christine Catherine ..cccciccescsssases Point Tupper, N. S.,
Therott, Eliasheth Hate: cc civewcsvestccsaaies as Newcastle Bridge, N. B.
Belliveau, Pierre Elisee ........... ccc cccceeneees Belliveau's Cove, N. S.
Hezanson, Corey BSehON cciasciecescaseaneswaceas Barss Corner, N. 5.
Campbell, Duncan Alexander ............00e000. Halifax.
Chase, William Henry, B.A., (Acadia)......... Wolfville.
Chute, Frank Foster, B.A. (Acadia) ............ Berwick.
Gosse, Norman Howard ......0..ceeeeeeeeeeee+++Spaniard’s Bay, Newfoundland.
Civaviville,, RGWEIG, TROMSM 6 odicccdaceuaeessceeus Halifax.
Groen, Bator ANU sacciadeviciorss caves Caledonia Mines, N. S.
NMacronalad, Eri WaHAe c.cccccccscvecncoauseses Svdnev.
DERG SOCEM, PEAT WERIOG 6as0hs kssareawesedeenn es Pleasant Bay, N. S&S.
MacLéan, Alexander Charles ..6iccecésccscaveivss Inverness. :
Se a errr err rec ree rere rr rT New Glasgow.
Mactsan, Jn Qe iisiay covves Loe aed coos OW Gieanow.
Macleod. Fian Gordon, BA. 6ikiccc iiices ia ces Green Hill, N. S.
MeoNaby, Witsem fends, B, Av iicceesedasrene Ottawa,
Marshall, Arthur MidGiemas ..cccecccccccdcsccess Halifax.
Pullifia, WIM ANNCMOY 6 iccccisevncteas 1ivets Channel, Newfoundland.
Bierce, GSR BeOUe 60604000600 8er0 kd 603 bes ikeaa Windsor,
eens, CRE TNE hoi 6 ko 6 004-089 be hs Le Halifax.
Weim, DEORE Te! Ss igs 7 Rr KR Halifax.

Doctor OF DENTAL SURGERY
Cee ESO ig odninn 54004) 098 04s heettees Graham's Road, P. FE. I.
GOMOD, COU EVANBOE ciicccicsscarccesienisviveess Halifax.
avin, AMONG COUMe | ice oe 600s 00s beeen eceeaees Westport, N. S&S.
ROT, WOTINOIE PEASE! occas 66cees tis 601s dO8 STs Halifax,
Maclonald, Howard Weldon .........+++++s0+++.Sydney Mines,
Purdy, Clarence Frederick Montgomery ......... Moncton.
Repet Demet. BEIT ciicesees oocensencaedevvecs Beem ma 8,
TOUNS, Veiere FEOEY okkcccas cecaviccccescissee Freeport, N. S.
Previously Conferred during the Session,

BACHELOR OF ARTS

TROIMDOGR, MOR cians cpcciadee ceiver sede Bridgewater.

BACHELOR oF LAWS

MaclIsaac, John James Francis (in absentai) ...Souris East, P. FE. I.
Docror oF MerpICcINE AND MASTER OF SURGERY

ee) A: a Sr eee tier arte *.. Halifax.
MASTER OF ARTS

Sister Marit Cin GDOSTILIA). isi vccicclotece's teceenes Rockingham.

Sister Teresa Maria (in absentia). ....c0ssseeces Rockingham.

ENGINEERING
Johnstone, Rialph GeOrge .ssccvevsirccvscvsscces Halifax.
Kaye, JOnn Ropmest cscccecnsescccccesseeveseiove Halifax.
ee ae Ba, ea er err Tatamagouche, N, S.
Maxwell, Edward Gerrard ..ccccivvcscvvecveseces Halifax.
Meicl, Jumih POPPIS © ices cee scs caveccesciessersss NW. GREW,
Richardson, Roderick McDougald ............... Westville, N.S.
Saltman, Fred Everett. .......cccsvecsscccccseeee Mahone Bay.
Taylor, JOM ADI ccccedesccccssevswseerseveees Halifax,
Wickwire, James Leander? cicccascvicacsavsceres Kentville.

Puspitic HEALTH NURSING

Churchill, BATER  scscavcnvnveecasveed cveweiesins Lake Darling, N. S.
Juckson, LOMA VICWTIO ciciece viccececd aus veuens Halifax.

Johris, Edna S§arah crssscccesecssscccccavctveses Halifax.

MacDonald, Catherine Tulloch ...ccvccececvevces Brook Village, N. S.
Mie W att, BORG ids bis hoes ee oa ca eee eee Bedford.

Rowers, Grice DAHA ccciiiccsrrvdiossersecesss Dartmouth.

Smifley, Margatet Jean versivectvccscevsedicecsey St Chom, NS.

Trefry, Marjorie EMMa ciccccscciccivcicivecevens Barrington Passage, N. 5S.

DipLoMAs OF DISTINCTION
geaeburvepeboess cies ie ecesvcsa5en> MARU SARTERTEL MOTO.

(Honorable Mention) Frank Foster Chute.

MASTER oF ARTS

Sister Rose Celestine (in absentia) .............By examination in French.

Honorary Decree or Docror or Laws
Frank Darling, L.L.D., R.C.A., F.R.LB.A., of Toronto, (in absentia).
W. E. Maclellan, LL.B., of Halifax.
Mr. Justice Russell, M.A., D.C.L., of Halifax.

Address to the Graduates.
Rev. Principal Clarence Mackinnon, D.D., LLD.

GOD SAVE THE KING.

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

% 8 OUR GRADUATING CLASS ®@ ®

 

 

 

CLASS OFFICERS

1918—19
President .i« coves ues R. T. Ward
Vice-President ...... Muriel Kent
Te ys ee R. F. MacLatchy
Treasurer ........... Eileen Burns
1919—20
President iG. .cceaer J. W. Colquhoun
Vice-President ....... Jean Annand
ey a ere Eileen Burns
Treasurer .........+: Ian K. Forsyth
1920—21
President ... 0.000%. Ian Forsyth
Vice-President .......'Tsabel Shaw
re Nettie MacKenzie
THOGSUPS? «ki cesigaess Lloyd Munro
1921—22
PUOGIOUNE | bs kc case ...M. GC, MeDonald
Vice-President ....... Eileen Burns
og re Mabel Morrison
TYCRSGUPO? .. cc eu .... Edgar Kelley
Life

Hion. President.......Dr. G. A. MacIntosh

PROGIIONG os c5 6 cae cei M. C. MeDonald
Vice-President ....... Jean Annand
Secretary ...... .....Marion Forsyth
TYORSOTOT cic cisscads Edgar Kelley

Class Day Exercises

HE elass day exercises of the graduates in Arts
and Sefnee of Dalhousie University took
place May 10th, in the Tlall of the Sehool

for the Blind.

PROGRAMME

Roll Call

Address—Prof. Howard Murray
Solo—RBasil Courtney

(lass THistoryv—H. F. Campbell
Musieal Number—Alex. Lamev
Critiauve—Anna MeNeil, Arts ’23
Presentation of Literary D’s.
Class Prophecy—Ada Tyler,
Solo—Grace Cragg
Valedictorv—Tan K. Forsyth

CLASS YELL

tickety, rackety ric, rae, roo,

Dalhousie, Dalhousie, Twenty-two,

Arts and Seience, sis, boom, bah.
Twenty-two, twenty-two, rah, rah, rah!

The nominal roll of all members past and present of the class was called by Miss Mabel Morrison, Secretary, the list having more than one hundred names on it. Prof. Howard Murray, who had
heen chosen for the onerous duty of delivering the
address to the graduating class, discharged his
duties in a very happy manner, giving much sound
adviee, without reverting to the time honored formulae so often used on such an occasion.

Professor Murray congratulated the members of
the class who.had suecessfully manoeuvered the difficult path of a Dalhousie degree. Some, he stated,
had encountered the difficulties besetting this path
“by jumping over them, others by getting around
them, while others, although they had first fallen,
had managed to successfully extricate themselves.”

Tt needed the warning from the Class President,
M. C, MaeDonald, to prevent the audience from insisting on an encore to the solo rendered by Basil
Courtney of the 1922:Law Class. Mr. Courtney was
in excellent voice and was accompanied by his sister
Miss Ella Courtney. The musical number rendered
by Alex. Lamey, of the School for the Blind, was also
well received. That the musical ability of Dalhousie
is not altogether confined to the faculty of Law was
amply proven by the solo rendered by Miss Grace
Cragg, M. D., C. M.

Herman Campbell narrated in eloquent style the
history of the class, whose roll shows a total
of nearly 35 of the male members who had served
overseas—more than fifty per cent. In every activity of college life the class had acquitted itself
well, it had given leaders not only to the debating
team, but to the athletics and other college societies,

 

UNITED STUDENTS’ COUNCIL, SESSION 1921-22

 

Back Row: W. J.
Clifford.

C. F. Grant, J. F. Mahoney, J. A. Dunlop, W. Cave.
Holland (vice-President), N. A. M. MacKenzie

Poirier, C. Crease, EK. Maxwell, I. K. Forsyth, O. R. Crowell, D. McInnes, V. C.
Center Row: R. McInnis, Marion Clarke, A. Chipman, C. MacMillan, L. A. Munro,

Front Row: M. Olive Madden, C. W.

treasurer), Isabel M. Shaw, Amy G. MacKean.

 

Miss Anna MacNeil, a member of the junior
class next delivered the class critique, She most effectively carried out her duties. praising the virtues
rather more than picking the flaws in the members
of the elass,

Following her address, Professor Tloward Murray was ealled upon to present the “Gazette” Literary “D's” awarded during the vear, four of whieh
had been granted to members of Arts and Seienece ’22
—namely, Miss Kileon Burns, Miss Mabel Morrison,
Llovd Munre, and David C. Colquhoun.

The others reeeiving the award were Miss Juanita O'Connor Arts "24, George (, Macleod of Law
and Rov D, MaeNutt, B. A. O.1.B., who graduated last vear,

The Class Propheey delivered by Miss Adi
Tyler must be eredited as the outstanding event of
the programme, The eloeutionary and histrionie
ability of Miss Tyler made her an ideal prophetess,
and completely carried her audience with her,

That most solemn event of the exercises, the valedictory, was carried out in a fitting manner by Tan K.
Forsvth, one of the manv debaters of the elass. He
thanked the professors for the painstaking way in
which they instructed the elass throughout its history.

At the conelusion of the regular programme,
the elass vell was given in fine style by the seniors
who thus far put aside the dignity incumbent upon
them, The old familiar Dalhousie voll coneluded a
most interesting evening,

STANDING OF CONTESTANTS
IN LITERARY COMPETION

Miss Roberta M. Forbes .............28
a a ee ba Ha ee he eet
A. H. Beaton forsee ee esaaaae 16
© Oe? ss be scestasdiass ite (Ge
Co ey: ROE dace bd 00 1c Gan ae es
i ae Se eee ror roe? eet yet ee
BiG; BOSS as vivrveveeevteseteessctens he

Sy) 2.) 6

 

(President), L. W. Fraser (secretary
se 5.0 #6 b-4 see ea SEER A 10
B,D: BOC 8. hea ke 4049648883 4)
Sn is one ey ye Ve as 8
We NS 5k a 8 ee Fa CRD ‘ pe
wise M. ©, M@dGen 1... ccecerveves vee
We. ee dv ek a ee ee sands e
OE a. Se a a ee TTT
ea eee ee eee . ener a
Mies BE. Killam ...iccevian isieeishiwis
By Oey 6 eb 0 04 ae (easese
SIRs ey MOU och cuca vunaeeeees veea
(ee Ba, OP POU. sy 400 bas a 24 ae eee
Mine J. PPABEY cn cccavcse ces Mises =
a 0) eae eee ee eee rece
MOR vies ta waa k baa bees séetaiate
Dy, SOME 6s ee i civ tiesinee aise
Miss BE, MOG . cise ise ever pace
Oh SE ea ok te ee 4 vaca eden

The Gazette regrets that the Class History will
not be found in the graduation mumber. This is
due to three causes: first, although each contributor
was notified when the material must be in the
writer of the class history failed to forward it;
secondly, the matter from all other sources was in
the hands of the printer over a week ago; lastly,
the editors feel that they cannot further delay the
publication of the Gazette on account of a single
article, As the paper is ready for press we have
reluctantly been foreed to omit this feature,

Mn W. Tf, MacCurdy, M. A., (formerly Class
17) has been granted a Research Studentship in
Physies by the University of ‘Toronto aecording to
word reeeived here last week, Mr. MaeCurdy, who
received his Master’s degree this year will have the
good wishes of a host of friends when he leaves the
city.
 

   
   
  
  
 
 
  
 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

+= ee

 

Proposed Merger of Maritime Universities

OME time ago an announcement was
made in the daily press that the
Maritime Universities — Dalhousie,
Kings, Saint Francis Xavier, Acadia
and Mount Allison had discussed the
project of a college merger, with a
headquarters at Halifax. The scheme
was the result of a conference between
the heads of the above named Universities and the Carnegie Foundation directors, held at New York. It was fur.
ther stated that the Foundation would
be willing to advance some $3,000,000,
in the event of the merger going
through.

The advantages of such a scheme are
many, but as was to be expected, it also
had its drawbacks. Acadia, heavily endowed by Rockefeller could afford to
stand alone; Saint Francis Xavier, also
heavily endowed, was in a similar position. Mount Allison could afford to remain outside; but King’s College, suffering as she had from fire which had
destroyed a part of the University
Buildings, and other causes, was severely embarassed financially. The idea
was not to merge into a large single
University, but to have each college in
the merger retain its individual character. Thus there would be at Halifax
six colleges, grouped under the name of
the University of the Maritime Provinees. Here, it seems, lies the chief
weakness of the whole project, apart
from any reasons of sentiment. The
entire six institutions would all be duplicating the Arts course; they would be
doing likewise with the courses in Engineering and Science. It was pointed
out that they would then be in the same
position as the English Universities—
Oxford, Cambridge, ete.—but this is
hardly correct. _

The Old Country institutions of
learning have a much greater number of
_ men to cater to, and on this account are
able to conduct their activities along
these lines; we are faced with an altogether different situation in the Mari
time Provinces. Dalhousie has_ the
largest registration of any of the above
mentioned Universities—in fact has as
many students as all of them put together—but even that number amounts
to only some 800. Compared to the
_ English Universities where the registration runs into the thousands it ean be
ae” se ng ayaa ee afford

‘mai te The

¥ z E = = a f w= *s i 2 : a
Pte : - ‘ , ‘ .

a) f, J :
aga. ii ew aah ; : 3 ; . =

yy ite saaeieet. tank of |

> ‘ 5 A s t t a : ; aa. _

a ’ is _ : 4

ft ft i . AnNnnentyr each 'g

} 4 , = “ a , = =

; eee Wes aT a t == u

. Pa 7 . pf ae " =

    

‘ fe = é f =f aM : 7 = 4 z f Z a aT " : =
‘ : = . . Re 4 ‘
j , = yp eis 3
‘ ina 4 wee | See Hip as' ‘
Aa i * oe ‘ guh = ¥ Le ar. ‘oe
or =e tt 4. = iM ib amt '
M2 ste Ss, z te T=

j | fs m= +s '
Tt 2 4 2 c. > : a
; = gies i
, ( . : ' i». if é 'p = hat =
Vea s ara Saris aa a idl ta t v4 Sg ’ Fos 4g!
vt a i i *. = Ze, i = i /
ele ; a , 1 ; : a om & ,
; Tt 4 =f ' PF ‘| ‘I ' F UL
: Nt as a=, ees i alte eb he Te Cee
4 f . o Pt * & Z st fie as ee Pal ms 4 ‘Ppa '
- j are ' tee ae ae ea a oe +. =. pe ce” te a | = : Pp / el
od j . f = 7 i a Ai 7 . ;
= “ - f ‘ ; 4 ie : F, } a = 8
ae at. Deen Me = S 4 - oo oes
) fie & ¥ F ore ee, -| 23 " ee — .
Pena Ie he up eee also ne Mh raat O15
dg ; = N 1
; *
1 ] - a) a a
= F ? ey
«i >. rf Ae = La ¥ .
> oe > a

to a College. Would the new University then, not be in a better condtion
financially to meet this difficulty as a
single institution than as a number of
colleges, gathered together under one
head, but still adhering to their own
systems, and attempting to keep them
distinct from each other?

Much sympathy is felt, for those of
the Maritime Educational centers
whose individuality would be lost on
acccunt of the scheme. But a new generation would pass these ideas by, lookink only to the greater advantage to be
gained from the new order of things.
The fact that we are supporting six institutions, where one would be sufficient,
must inevitably lead to the absorbtion
of the whole under one head, and with
an offer such as has been made to this
end, it would seem that the time for the
merger is now. |

In a scheme of this kind all the Universities should look forward far enough
to see what a benefit such a merger
would be to the public; the people are
the ones whose money supports the various educational centers and _ they
should be considered before all selfish
interests. Our younger generation in
the Maritime Provinces go through an
Arts or similar course in their own province but to complete their education
they are forced to leave the country and
take post graduate courses elsewhere.
Properly developed the new University ought to be able to obviate the necessity for this. Instead of sending our
ability abroad why not keep it at home?
And the best way to do this would be,
and some day must be, to offer the
same advantages here as could be acquired elsewhere. The Editor.

 

Editorial

+ (Continued from page 3).

to end for ever. There always is a
sense of sadness mingled with the joy
of having attained the long-wished-for
end of one’s college course. The average student almost feels as did Sir

ivere taking a last farewell of King .

rthur:

A |
««.., And I, the last, go forth compan
10 ’

‘
; Ye
es

   

my? <
eh: PRA:
|g si “a's E

 
   

i
2 a : ‘al ,

 

sey

is

ee
. 4 3 i Vy
be ro i
eg a ame
is ;
pm. €
8 sr. is

=p —i
“sail ate

_ the 240 present si
organization was

‘
AY
he

The Student Volunteer Movement

About the year 1884 three undergraduates of Princeton attended a theological conference. One of the speakers, Dr. A. J. Gordon of Boston, said
that he was eighteen years in the ministry before he learnt what it was to
yield himself to God’s will, and he had
found that, whereas his preaching before had seemed merely like shooting
with bow and arrows, from then on it
was like using a rifle. After the meeting the young students went up to him
and asked if they would havé to be that
long in the ministry before they might
get that power. His reply was,
‘‘Young man, God is ready as soon as
you are ready.”’

These students among whom was
Rupert P. Wilder, the present General
Secretary of the Movement, on their return to college started a prayer-group,
which grew, burst forth, and brought
about a religious revival in Princeton.
Out of it a small group of volunteers for
foreign missions was formed. They
took as a pledge, ‘‘I am ready and desirous, God wilting, to become a Foreign
Missionary’’, and ,as their watchword,
‘‘The Evangelization of the World in
this Generation.”’

Shortly faterwards, Wilder was at
one of Moody’s four-weeks Bible-study
Summer-Conferences at Mt. Hermon, at
which 240 students were present. Two
weeks after the Conference opened, he
was asked to speak on the Call to Foreign Missions. A group of volunteers
was formed and started recruiting. A
few days.later ten of them got permission to conduct the evening-meeting.
They each spoke and the men were
greatly moved; John R. Mott and another man spent the whole night in
prayer out in the open fighting out their
decisions to become missionaries. The
result of that meeting was that 100 of
ed the pledge; an
ormed, and Wilder
was asked to drop college and sper
the next year recruiting in the college
of the States and Canada. m
first year 2000 had signed the Pledge,
Next ravelled
more_

 

  

 
 

 
 

      
  

 

were kept in a t

 

   
 
 
 
  
 

i A > . s =
3 ypriry Ff i =
. a u : n= ‘. > + *
as pz = ee : = i = ’ *. fm Jie do ae ee a ie ‘
oa a iad ale aad al _ ’ - y | é a ! . 4g be i — y ‘
¥ 4 f 4 "a , a ” ‘ | a . t
’ cf es Yy " ; *¥V ¢t A i - “e) f i Be! x] [a
Vwi i ! VASO FY 45S meee ve was ea " F
iy ee = — Fo as Titer © eo ” a a ieee 7 i + FE :
4 “SS 8 aa ee ee = oy - oe 5 1 x
a - _ ie ie a : 5 +4 i 4 cy a i ee 4:
5 { ? iy’ ry : 4p i vb ff ou f Ay = —
7 i j o ‘ ) GB
t= aan as a Pe rh eee ,
p> = an Ta , * D , a eae Pe a hee Bi eae “
fur - A - bs ~~, me4 il a4 . ©
etre ertl a - 7 A = ety
SF ‘. 5—' a2 F i 4 a i i) pe == aD 4
Siar ae) SY 2 ny 1 La P44
a = ; wns 7 fa
we a ae -tete \
ia b= J

Po “ 5 3

as eS hy ee ae Pet at. ae” A F

~ (gegeot, 2 ata as baa 2 /

‘aa ae Pr § J oye arty = = ee, ee

aa *y = ' eis oe:

Ald PNT es oy st SEA Ed Ai ete DS ee
ine _ ie. ey ra rr 4 ies a ele

"ae :

- , Denna age mam . :

TTR 1 nati

eee

—

_ Foreman

  
 
   
  
  

velled but 600
were signed.—The first of- —

f 7 A ta p> i :
Yea.
5

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

¥ A Dalhous

There were five of us starting north
from language school in the old Korean
capital, Secul, a city that was old before
Oolumbus sailed the western sea, whose
aneient wall and huge iron clad gates
still bear testimony to the skill and industry of the inhabitants of long ago,
and in whose centre still hangs the
great old bell that has tolled the hours
for opening and closing of the city gates
for more than five hundred years.
Though we turned our backs upon Secul
with decided regret, we looked forward
with eager interest and anticipation to
our trip to the north that was to two of
us at least a new and unknown land.

We were to sail from Wonsan, a port
on the east coast of Korea, and as we
had only two days in which to pack all
our belongings we were busy enough.
However, all was ready, the heavy baggage loaded on two cowearts, the suitcases, lunch baskets, and typewriters
piled high on a sort of wooden frame
called a jiggy on the backs of two coolies, and the whole procession on the way
to the wharf a good two hours before
the boat was to leave, for in the east no

one can, under any circumstances, be

hurried, least of all a coweart, and one
must allow plenty of time. We had not
gone far when we met a foreigner coming to tell us that the sailing of the boat
had just been cancelled, and we could
not get away till the next day.

The ‘‘Tattegami Maru’’ is a fine
British built ship in the coastal trade
between Japan and Vladivostock. She
flies the Japanese flag and carries a
Japanese crew. She is also the best
ship on the coast so we considered ourselves very fortunate to go up in her.
We also had the good luck to get first
class passages which meant two good
clean cabins with a berth for everybody.

econd class passengers sleep on a

 

straw mat on the floor, men, women,
and children together, while. —
: accom (Lons. We tried the

to our boxes and thermos

   
  

i) r ha =f wae —

i * oe 2 cute 2
re PRES ; rex,

Se a Se ee dls : .

; ee | 5 a3 7" “ 4
at : - . - " h
7 ‘ i ff : / : a ij x |
fe a suf > ae,

ai |
UF

 

   
  

+
ae

_ mk , i ij

Z 45T 7.

! oh “= 11% 2 “a4
¥ <— ‘ a re

ian In Korea ¥ |

the harbor at Song° if. e : ai +. " A 3 " . “as 4 » . ; .
5 ee ne i , WT NOTniInYe. =a}
‘i Pri a 1? - Ds my, a - re " pees wh ie L —o Fs ye "
. “ be OE, > dial ; iW ‘
o ra ff

= bP : a ass a 
= Z, 5 yah) f :

: d ga. ‘ : :
Ne : S 7 a ter ' TALE | | inant
/ ke ee se eee r Fae Geet ;
? ae 29 VMN tS lee a — ; =
ll TD mi “ELERTLL EY
t ¥ , = ae - | aes : . . at = 7 7

2 J fl eas 5 ia C ; =

customs at Cho

wards the mission houses, it was getting
quite clear and we began to meet long
lines of Korean bullock carts with huge
hubs to the wheels that often project a
foot or more beyond the sides of the
wheels, loaded with straw sacks of Soy
beans, the driver usually leading the
quiet bull in the shafts. It was market day in Songjin and they were all
coming to sell their beans in the market.
Kvery little while we would meet a few
Chinamen coming in with donkeys and
pack ponies for supplies to take to the
mines. By the way, the most notable
thing of all about the carts is the creak.
The louder the creak, the better the
cart, and these certainly seemed to me

to be all prize carts. Such creaking

and groaning and woeful sounds! One
could often hear the creaking of a line
of carts long before they came into view
around some turn in the streets. Songjin is a long narrow town spread around
the harbor partly Korean and partly
Japanese. It is a picturesque scene
enough to see such a town with its
mud houses and tile or straw thatched
roofs, but one’s impression on a near
view is that of poverty and sordidness.
But there is another side to the question, and people who are used to sitting
and lying on warm floors, find our
chairs and soft cold beds very uncomfortable, and indeed sometimes the
beds are considered scarcely safe, for
might not one fall off a contraption so
high from the floor?

Next morning before daybreak we
reached Chongjin, and as it began to get
clear we could see the coolies coming off
to the ship and were in the hold in no
time. Korean coolies are the best natured people in the world. They do all
sorts of hard work, and take all sorts of
hard knocks for a few cents a day and
you will never see one of them without a
ae They are a ss oe a

er in gangs when they beguile the
time with working songs who they
improvise as they go along and all shout
together in time with the movements o
their bodies as they work. — |
- Another wild leap for the sampan,
and in a few minutes we were in the

    
 

 

a ie Des | = | Pp iNet es

i tit . y - ; Toa ig ea, Pie ie 4 iL ies =
7 ¥ oe in rs : , =

L :

Lam — VF ee  & AL Ww
wR Capra) Shak get

de
=
ai

ae ee ee :
oh yi! A. aa
.

4 "taal
ie

eee «=» aes eens
ee

7

a: rit, a,
et

 

was straw matting on the floor and we

sat on cushions around a table a foot
high with a pot of burning charcoal beside it, for the Japanese make no attempt beyond this to heat their homes
even in the coldest weather. We got
some toast and tea to eat with what re
mained of our own lunch sand went out

to see the town.

At one station a group of school boys
got on the train and crowded around
to look at a picture in the magazine I
was reading. I turned over the pages
and showed them the rest of the pictures in which they were much interested and asked the English names of
the objects they saw. So it came to
pass we had a lesson right there. Tt
was interesting to watch their faces
bright if not very@lean. as they looked at the pictures and repeated the
English words over and over. How T
wished T knew a little more Korean, but
it will be some time yet before T can Bay
very much. Korean children always
appear to have bad colds. and handkerchiefs to be a rare luxury. These
were no exception in either respect. The
Korean evangelist. noticing the state of
affairs, searched his pockets, found a
piece of old newspaner, evidently provided for just such an occasion, and
went the rounds with it, ~

Arrived at the end if the line, after

a parley with the police which is always

the first thing on arriving at any place
in Korea, we were on our way to the
inn when we met Miss Whitelaw come
to meet me from Yongjung, with one of
the Korean helpers from the hospital
there. This young man proved very
useful as he spoke English to me,
Korea to the Koreans, Japanese to the
police, and Chinese to the people we
met of that nationality. Arrangements
had been made for us to stay at a nice
clean Korean house where the Christians were accustomed to meet for wor- —
ship, for though there are a good many ©

Christians there there is as yet no

church and no one to take charge of the
work. First thing to do was to have
supper. We had lunch with us, as it
is not always safe to eat Korean food if
you wishes to avoid infectious diseases,
but we indulged in some nice hot, rice
and boiled eggs that were kindly presented by our hostess. Before we started the meal, visitors began to arrive.
but fortunately for us, it is very bad
form in Korea for people to be around
where others are eating, so as soon as |
our visitors saw that we were about to
eat, they went away for the time being.

     
 
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sechdeeg ae ORR RII nee eee aeds

CRITIQUE OF CLASS °22

Delivered by ANNA MacNEIL, Arts °23.

the juniors, will have the privilege of express
‘ing our opinions concerning you, the members
of Class ’22. To-morrow you will graduate from your
Alma Mater. You will go out attended by the
praises and good-wishes of all. As a class, during
your sojourn at the university, your have won the
respect and esteem of alll your fellow-students. But
we would not have you go out into the world without relating the impressions which you, as individual
students, have made upon us. Rather we wish to
enter into a more intimate relationship with you—
s0 intimate that we can criticise you, point out your
virtues and your faults, just as we have seen them,

“Divinely tall and most divinely fair” Emren
BurNs moved gracefully amongst us. Possessing a
brilliant intellect and great executive ability, Kileen
was the efficient Vice-President of Class ’22, In her
senior year she specialized in Economics,

President of Class ’22 in his senior year and
elected Life President, Mac MacDonarp is a splendid type of college student, Possessing a keen intellect Mae stood high in his classes and his sound
judgment was always deferred to, to settle class problems. President of Sodales Debating Society in his
senior year, and for two years leader of the .intercollegiate debating team, Mac willl long be remembered for his forceful ‘and persuasive eloquence, Holding the respect and confidence of h's fellow-students
and with # host of friends Mac will leave a gap in
college life that will be bard to fill.

Jean ANNAND is a type of the all round college
girl. Original and witty and possessing a winning
personality, Jean is a general favorite amongst both
girls and boys. She was a worthy member of the
girls’ debating team which brought fame to our Alma
Mater this year. As a testimony of the esteem in
wltich she was held in her own class. she was chosen
as their Vice President for life. Jean succeeded in
doing splendid work in Arts in spite of her profound interest in Law.

DaALste ArMITAGE left college as a jolly junior.
During her college career she distinguished herself
as a basket-ball player. The team testified to her
ability by choosing her as their captain for her
senior year. Energetic and fun loving Dalsie made
her presence felt at all social functions and her
classmates Icarned with regret that she was not
completing the course,

Nobody ever saw Herman Camppett without
his pleasing smile. He was indeed a ladies’ man.
Herman could become most affectionate over the
telephone (especially when impersonating someone
else). In his senior year he specialized in Hebrew,
basketball, and) The Dartmouth Ferry Time-Table.

Nerrie MacKenzie is an all round college girl,
a clever student, bright and vivacious. Always
jolly and ready for a laugh Nettie is a general
favorite with both girls and boys and her presence
will be greatly missed in college circles, Although
taking an Arts’ course herself. she is known to
have a warm spot in her heart for the medical profession, and is an enthusiastic basketball fan.

Marton Bonn is a tvpical sweet girl graduate.
She came to our college to pursue an M, A. course
only this vear and consequently is not well known.

“Tan Forsyra is one of the most popular boys
in class °22. Te was class treasnrer in the sophomore year and president in the junior year. The
class always found in him a strong and prudent
leader—one who always considered others before
himself.

A ereat granddaughter of the first President
of Dalhousie Collece Jnan MaoCuriocn came
here from Boston to take her Arte course. Quiet
and unassuming, but possessing a keen sense of
humour, a was well liked by those who knew her

"tes jon will be the last opportunity that we,

best. It id rumored that ber favorite pastime is
cera ‘aden ‘aan ae ssuming

Roy Innis was ys qu una ,

yet no student could command greater respect and
and admiration than Roy, It seemed i ble to
excite him except at an interfaculty football match.
A, B. Simpson to Dalhousie as an ardent
opponent Sp secodastiion. He might have left colee that A. B rays be

Girls’ Branch of the Students Christian Association,
much credit is due her for this very successful year
in that society, Although possessing great executive ability, Isabel always drew the line at having
toboggan parties too near the Xmas exams.

R. J. MacDonatp never knew what it was to
worry. He could whistie when others would weep,
He is credited with being, called to the telephone
more frequently than any other boy in class 22. His
favorite study was French and as a result he searcely
evor sang in English.

Tall and dark, Ep, MAxwett. moved quietly
among his fellow students, A student of rare abilitv and tact Ed. is most highly respected by all
his class mates, He was a member of the Students
Council this year.

JEAN FRASER and Mabel Morrison are the
“Insevarables” of class ’22. Jean was the genis!
and efficient President of De!ta Gamma in her senior
year. A clever student, she was particularly interested in Philosophy. Jean is. a girl whose executive ability is always in constant demand and
to her must be attributed half the’credit for bringing about the spirit of harmony between Delta
Gamma and the Students Council this year,

Of Maper Morrison it can truly be

“And still the wonder grew

How one small head could earrv all she knew.”

The most studious figure at Dalhousie in our
time, you would find Mabel reading and studying
books entirely unknown to her classmates, The
testimony of those who knew her well is that
Mabel is a lovable girl with a generous nature and
kind disposition. However we feel that she was
cfficult of approach to a great number of students
who would have delighted in a more intimate friendship with her.

What a pity the girls did not know Rop
HouMeEs better. Yet a chosen few knew him. Rod
had wonderful executive ability, he could organize
a toboggan party in the twinkle of an eye and hie
could disorganize it just as quickly. The legal profession will in Rod realize a stalwart exponent.

Viocer Murray, slender, dainty, blue-eyed, in
the fragrance of her personality typifies the flower
whose name she bears. Those in the circle of her
friendship have found her ever bright, cheerful and
witty. |

said—

hails from P. E. I, During his one year at Dal.
he became very popular with the co-eds,. He is
now pursuing his studies at MacGill

Brit Gunn, the most prominent piece of artillerv in class ’22 is always ready to fire. Bill firmly
resolved that no fair co-ed would ever allure him
from his studies in Tatin and the Cosmopolitan.
As an election campaigner he had no peer, He is
credited with running the keenest contest ever
waged in a Student Council election,

T#o girls who remained in the class for only
one year were NeLiir Conweit and Fiosste CorguwouN. Impulsive, warm-hearted and always ready
for a lark, they never let their class work interfere
with a good time.

Rop Ricwarpson always felt that there was
comething wrong if things went smoothly. By revolution and reaction he would bring about great
transformations. Rod was.a brilliant student and
alwavs took a keen interest in all college activities.

Studious and clever, Curtis . did
splendid elasswork. By nature retiring, Dorothy
was not widely known throughout the college, but
those who knew her best found in her a true friend.

Enoar Kerrey was the treasurer of class ’22
in their senior year. So efficiently did he serve that
they have honored him by electing him life treasurer.
A clever student always precise and straightforward. Edgar has made a host of immediate friends.

Suetpon MacLean is a good looking boy who .

she could always be depended on to back any movement that was for the good of Dalhousie; Her
class showed their appreciation of her worth in
appointing her their life secretary.

Daviy CorguHOUN was always sure to take a
‘engthy part in a meeting. He felt it his implicit
duty to make a motion or move an amendment and
these motions were always complicated. He was a
faithful and conscientious member of the Gazette
staff and a good student,

Larry Witson was another of class ’22’s quiet
and unassuminging boys. Larry always enjoyed
himself best by spending an evening at the Majestic
with one of the co-eds. The thing he dreaded most
was being found out.

Witty and always ready for a jark, MuRtEL
Kent is a sure eure for the ‘blues’, Although not
a very good “mixer,” Muriel won for herself many
‘oyal friends and her jolly presence will be greatly
missed in college. life,

Dalhousie has no student who is more prominent in college activities than Joun Duntop. One
wonders how he ever found time to attend to all
his various tasks, He took an active part in athleties and had the distinction of winning his Literary
‘D’; The social committee of class ’22 was never
comp'ete without John. He always emphasized the
importance of having “read enough and to spare” at
a'l class funetions. As a student he has a brilliant
record and was ‘ast year appointed Rhodes scholar.

Mora MAcKINNOoN entered class ’22 in the
Sophomore year. She is a careful and earnest student and though she has not given many the opportunity of knowing her, she has made some firm
friends.
courag? of her convictions and we can feel sure that
she will make good in whatever she may undertake
in the future.

When Harris Rem spoke he meant what he
said. His first duty was to his studies, but Harris
was not a book-worm, he was a real good college
sport.
| Gentle and cheerful, always able to see the
sunny side of anything, Jennie MustTarp was well
I'ked by those who knew her. A clever student and
fond of a good time, Jennie was never heard to
an unkind word about anybody.

Class '22 is represented in the dental profession
by Bert Forses. To have teeth extracted by Bert
would be to’ have them extracted painlessly. Bert
could never be accused of seeing the gloomy side of
life. Always ready for a lark, she was an all
round good sport,

A. F. MacDonatp during his two years with the
class was one of its pillars, A good student, A, F.
was always found in sympathy with movements
which were for the welfare of Dalhousie. We regret that he did not complete his course here,

No institution knew DonaLn Wenster better
than the Marlboro. He could tell of the most
thrilling episodes in that vicinity, A good student,
with a genial smile and friendly disposition, Don
will assuredly meet success in the medical profession, ;

A modest and detiring exterior usually covers
a heart of gold, ApA TYLER is no . Her
noble character, ready sympathy and originality
commended at once the love and respect of all her
fellow students, EP Se |

Joun MacCurpy enjoyed himeelf most when he
was in an argument, John could always keep the
crowd amused by his trite sayings. ee

Dororny CAmERON and Mure, Hess w
only with the class a short time when they embarked on the sea of imony. ant

To Dick Warp fell the lot of leading class ’22

rough ita Freshman year. To preside

:
7

th ide at + son
meeting was always an embarassing task for Dick

  
 
    
 
    
   

‘Mora is a girl with high ideals and the”

 

 

—

= sleet ised esesssepnatnstesteenstecentet

much in her studies, for few students have had a
finer record than she.

The girls who admired a good dancer always
sought Minne Brancnarp. He has a most charming way, and can always make people feel at ease
in his company,

Ambitious and persevering, and well equipped
mentally, MABEL CUMMING is a success as a student.
She did not take an active part in the social activities of the class, for outside of studies she interested herself in engineering, ,

Ree MacLatcnuy was late in beginning _ his
first year but it was not long before ’22 found that
there was in their midst a real leader. Last year
he obtained a scholarship from the Overseas Club
and is now completing his medical course in London.

FLorence Hutcninson, HeLten GLENDENNING and Epirma WIcKWIRE were only with the class

one year, but during their short stay they made.

many friends,

KenNETH Haye. will always be remembered by
his classmates for the meek and humble way in
which he responded to questions propounded in
Latin 2. He never saw very’ much need for disputing “Kelly’s” versions. Ken aspires to be a
doctor and we feel assured that he will be a success
in that profession

When Frep Pacry is seen in the company of a
number of boys he can make a great deal of noise—
but in the company of a co-ed—as he was wont to
be in his student days—Fred was cxtremely meek.
He is a good football and basketba!!] player.

In the slight girlish figure and dreamy eyes of
OLIVE MADDEN one would searcely expect to find
an ardent upholder of women’s rights. As a debater Olive was a pleasing and attractive speaker. In
the legal profession, which she intends to pursue,
Oxive will have a great asset in her ready wit and
her keen sense of humor.

MAYNARD. WYMAN is a happy fellow from Yarmouth, An ideal friend and companion, Maynard
always dispels gloom and chases dull care away
when he is present.

Roy Cuisnotm, F. L. Vassarzo, C. BE.” MacDonaLp, M. W. CUNNINGHAM all had but a brief
period with the class so that our acquaintance with
them was but slight.

One of the most delightful persons to meet
irom class 22 is TueLMA Smiru. Dainty, vivacious
and witty, a jolly time was always assured when
Thelma -was present.

DonaLp Forsytu, the third member of the
Forsyth family in class ’22, like his brother and
sister, enjoys the good will of all Dalhousie students, He was an extremely interesting conversationalist and was never satisfied at any social event
unless everyone was having a real good time.
The attractions of Western Canada were too strong
for Don and as a result ’22 did not have him in
their senior year.

Everett Mure is always quiet in appearance, but
the girls say when alone with him that he is a
most interesting conversationalist. Everett has an
enviable record as a student and one‘can easily
imagine in him a most successful physician.

Lucy Kravis left class ’22 in her sophomore
year to enter the teaching profession. She was a
clever student and of a friendly disposition.

Always serious, at any rate in appearance, E.
R, Lounges seemed to be worrying much and weighed down by the cares of the world, yet it is said of
him that he had no equal at playing pranks,

Arcuige Morton was always blushing but at all
times extremely polite. For Archie more than two
was always a crowd, He is a student of exceptional ability excelling particularly in Mathematics,

_ Witrrep MarsHat is one of the men who is always very quiet. Wilf however is not shy and no
ee, eee ten bite go

ceeding! v ed in.
Dale diet team, Set us rater
_ We recall Mars, Kertey as a

  
 
   
    
 
  

3 =
oe ey

ees eee esse

 

~ long at Dal., so he was not very well known.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

eee — - —
—————— Ee = i = ae - ane

DALHOUSIE GIRLS’ BASKETBALL TEAM

ee

= (RE aE oa
een dees tnhanlll, —_ ante

INTERCOLLEGIATE CHAMPIONS, 1921-22

 

 

 

ee TOS eeeeedinmediestienaikeenel

E. Crichton, M. Linton, E. Archibald, L. Rundle. M. Mader, M. Clark (Captain), E. Mader

Anna Grant, Carol Hawkins,

TR ee

 

 

Acknowledgments

The Gazette wishes to acknowledge receipt
of subscriptions from the following: Misses E.
F. Blackwood, Low, Gertrude L. Palmer, Jennie
G. Grant, Ruth McPhail, Elizabeth Maycock,
Revs. John A. Logan, Thos. Stewart, Drs. A. S.
McKenzie, E. M. McKenzie, Profs. Munro,
Stewart, Messrs. W. M. Corbett, A. O. McRae,
S. D. Jenks, R. D. McCleave, G. Fred Pearson,
Jas. Maxwell, R. D, Mitton, E. BE. B. Smith, D.
A. Cameron.

J. R. NICHOLSON,
Business Manager.

N. B.—Any subscriptions received after the
Graduation number goes to press will be acknowledged. in our first number after the opening in the fall,

 

Dove, FRASER was prominent in the social activities of his class, Doug. was always ready to do
his part to make a function a success.

“When a rn in the case,

You know all other things give place.”

| This was particularly true of Jimmy CotgvHOUN. Whether in the MacDonald Library, the
class room, or on the street, Jimmie was always in
a mood of admiration which’ was reciprocated by
one of the fair co-eds of ’22. Jimmie was President
of the class in its sophomore year,

Des. Smitu is a jolly girl who never let her
etudies interfere with a time. She was much
admired in her skating outfit as she glided around
the rink, effectively guided by one skilled in en
gineering.

Frep TREMAIN will always be remembered for
having forsaken class ’22 to join the ranks of those
no longer free, He has always maintained an interest in the class. ah

Capable, athletic and fond of a good time, Fern

Oxiey thoroughly enjoyed the gayer side of college
dly and generous Fern was well liked

_ A shy boy with a bashful smile is what we reof J. D. Rarusun. He did not remain

iby her fellow students.

 
  

       

at Dal
caer

    
 

‘se

    

eas inn Seed

spares, (not in pjicture.)

 

CONVOCATION ODE

By “pring accompanied jonce again you come,

O Convocation Day!

To place your laurels at the victor’s feet

Before you send them out upon Life’s way :—

That dim, mysterious path their dreams have
sown

With perfumed blossoms lovelier than the dawn,

And marked with monuments of noble deeds,

Inspiring, and fair to gaze upon.

Honor arises from her golden throne

And graciously bends down

To place upon the happy graduates

The long desired and long toiled for erown;
Through the awaking beauty of the spring
And slowly down the long, attentive aisle

Of friends and parents, these glad victors come,
Youthful, black-gowned, in long and solemn file.

O Convocation Day! you hold the jewel

For which their toil has paid;

And Doctors, Lawyers, Bachelors of Arts,

And Masters they are made;

Yiou hold the joy, the glory and the tear,

The sweetness and the sadness they must know,

And once again you give to them these things,

Once more you summon them....to bid them go.
—Juanita O’Connor,

 

First Student: - ‘‘ According to the
law of the conservation of energy;
‘Kinergy cannot be created or destroyed.
Then what happens-to energy used in
the psychic forces of forming an idea. |
Some material energy apparently goes
off and iis wasted.’’

 

eve Cise's
ig NE we
a1 2 el
te

1
i
i
|

 

 

| Calgary last week.

et

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Delivered By Miss Ada Tyler.

was spending the month of July in the city of
I Quebee and one warm afternoon I set out with a

quaint little French woman to try to find a book
which up to that time she had been unable to secure,
Tt was long out of print, was of no literary value
and was ealled “The Life and Letters of Jacques
Arnaut,” Our quest was at first futile but at last,
after many windings and turnings, we came to a
queer old book shop, the owner of which had not
only heard of such a book but thought that it was
actually in his possession, ‘and would Madame and
her companion come inside and sit down?

It was a kind of store-room that we entered.
Everywhere was a deathly stillness—everywhere was
dust. We waited until the. waiting had grown
tedious and we had grown drowsy. Yet our bookseller did not reappear. IT lazily read or attempted
to read the titles of the boeks and the names and
notes on the boxes and paper bundles, all of which
were arranged on shelves covering the whole four
walls save the space oeewpied by the door and the
window. A large cardboard box stood on the floor
and at first sight seemed to bear the title “Life
and Letters of Clarissa”, followed by two intérrogation points, but when I had brushed away some
of the dust IT read to my amazement, “Life and
Letters of Class °22”. Underneath was written
“Dalhousie University”. TI had the cover off in
no time but found, to my great disappointment, no
orderly account of my classmates—nothing but a
miscellaneous collection of letters, newspapers,
withered flowers, snapshots, photographs, magazines,
ete, The dates ranged from 1918 to 1940. Out of
this chaos I attempted to bring order. Whether
I sueeeeded or not remains to be seen.

Sometimes the only guide was a single page of
a letter and consequently it was often impossible to
Xav by whom or to whom the letter was written.
For instance I picked up the following on a loose
eat saw Manet Cummine as I passed through
Ca You have heard, no doubt, that
she completely reorganized the sist High Schoo! of
which she was principal and then must have thought
that her duty in that sphere was completed for
three years ago she did what we prec icted she
would do—changed her name but not her initial and

-¥s now—” but here page six inconsiderately ended

t

and I was obliged to trust to luck that I would
find page seven "lates for such a gap in “The Life
and Tetters” was not to be thought of.

‘There was also in the box a syllabus of Lakeside College for Girls, British Columbia. Tt was an
ideal place, if one might judge from the pictures
and description of the grounds, the buildings, opportunities for outdoor sports, ete. Of the efficiency
‘of some members of the staff I had no doubt. They
were members of Class ’22. Marion ForsyTH was
the Dean, Peart Moase taught Latin and Greek,
Viorer Murray lectured in Physics and Mora
MacKinnon was Registrar, working er but
none the less effectively. ere was a el deo's in Domestic Science and over this Dera

had full control. :
Py aeaemenee informed ane. thed: Dr.

A newspaper clippin
Lh, Fouarrs, petpaine of one of the largest

theological colleges in British Columbia, had deliv
ered ¢ most doquekt address to that year’s grad
uating class.

_ I picked up a — ss gy b ac

Forsytu, a } aph of which read: “I am

ont a Rar of my holidays here in Sunny
lifornia at the home of Jean MoCutrocn, who

chest and

very disconsolate and kept talking to himself. I
made cautious inquiries and found that he was repeating the psalms in the original Hebrew and had
reached ‘the fifty-fifth psalm and sixth verse, “Oh,
that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly
away.”

In a copy of the Dalhousie Alumni News several
of my classmates were mentioned. ARNOLD SMITH
was a member of the Staff of the Technical College,
Halifax. J. A. NicHoLson was pastor of the First
Presbyterian Chureh, St. John, N. B. Pat Morrison
was practising ‘aw in Guelph, Ontario, Dr, ALLIsTAIR McKinnon, M, A., L.L.B., Pu. D., had been
appointed to the chair of ‘Constitutional Law, Dalhousie University, Rev. J. R. INGLIS was a missionary in distant Korea. He sent his best wishes to
his Dalhousie friends and said he hoped to visit
Nova Scotia in the fall of 1930,

I was hunting for more copies of the Alumni
Notes when the familiar countenance of the Evening
Echo appeared in the box. One paragraph announced
that Mr. Witn1AM Gunn, who had been absent for
some time on an important mission for the Canadian
Government, was passing through Halifax on his way
to Ottawa, and on the following morning, May 10,
the Halifax Herald contained an announcement of a
gift of $10,000 to. Dalhousie from Mr. WILLIAM
Gunn. A photograph of the pen with which he
signed the cheque also appeared, which pen now
reposes in the archives of the University.

A flash light picture of a large banquet hall
was the next object of my attention and on the
back of this picture some one had written: “The
gentleman standing up is Joun A DUNLOP, one
of the cleverest and most energetic lawyers in
Montreal, founder of the Good Times’ Club, an outstanding characteristic of the entertainments being
“the Dunlop Shuffle’. At his right is Rop RicnARDSON, world famous engineer and guest of honor
that evening. John, as you see, has his hand
raised and is in the midst of making his fifth
raised and is in the midst of making his _ fifth
speech that evening. During these speeches he repeatedly called upon Mr. Richardson to testify to
the veracity of his remarks, John sends graphic
accounts of the activities of the Club to a daily
newspaper of that city which has an enormous circulation,” I found several copies of this paper in
the box. Its headlines were in bold black type and
there was a quantity of red lettering used on the
front page. The name of the sanguinary looking
daily was “The Revolutionist” and its editor was
Daviy Corqunoun. Wherever a copy found its way
conservative people shook their heads and murmured: “Thé old order changeth yielding place to new.”

This question might have been more aptly aplied to certain changes in the medi¢al world, for
in a well-known medical magazine was a report of

a convention at which, the chief figure was Dn. *

Epear Ketiey, whose book “Psycho-therapeuties—
Its Theory and Practice” had set the medical world
atingle. He was given a whole evning to lay before the assembly his plans for the erection of a new
hospital for the study and practice of his new
branch of medical science. The plans for this hospital had been jointly and gratu

Maxwewt, F. BE. Sartman, M. B. Wyman, Dr.
Arcitmranp Morton was Dr. K invaluable

elley’s
colleague and Miss JENNIE mipcate tle head nurse,

Among the clippings I found the
following: “Murte. Xue, Librarian of the ee
lative Library in Toronto and — or in

Ontario L School is spending
at her home

ee tes ets ° vu

9 i
a

sly submitted by —
three well-known architects, all Dalhousians, ©, J.

touring car, and recognized two of the people in it,
l'HELMA SMITH and OLIVE MApDEN, inseparable as in

Ye Olden Days. The letter out of which the snap
had fallen said that Thelma was a very efficient and
popular principal of a High School in Maine, U.S.A.
Olive Maddin, as enthusiastic as ever about law,
was the youthful member of a well-known law firm
in New Brunswick, She and Thelma always spend
their vacation together and every year give a private theatrical entertainment to a very select group
of friends. They steadfastly refuse all offers from
joint stock companies, ete.

I thought I reecovnized JEAN ANNAND in the ear
too, though I was not sure. I knew that for some
time she had lightened the burdens of a busy doctor
in Halifax and then had gone to live in Ontario—
not alone. Jean organized a debating society whose
members became so proficient in the art of debate
that they were known as “The Invincibles”. |

I now untied a square brown paper parcel and
found a photograph of a large handsome stone building and a letter, part of which ran: “This is our
new science building. The plans for the completed
group of buildings weer drawn up by J. H. Ret, W.
M. MArsHartt and L, I. Witson. When completed
they will form one of the most beautiful groups of
buildings in America, Two of our Professors are
also Dalhousie graduates—Lioyp A Munro, professor
of Chemistry, and Donatp Forsyrn, professor of
History. Professor, Munro has found time to write
two good Canadian novels and Professor Forsythe’s
name is associated with a book on Economics’’.
From the deseription of the book which was also
given I would say it was almost as formidable in
appearance as the volumes of the Encyclopaedia
Britannm in the Library at Studley,

A page of the Toronto Times attracted my attention on account of a blue pencilled paragraph
which read: “The Monthly exchange of pulpits
brings the minister of Westminister Church, Rev,
R. Hotmes to St. Mark’s on Sunday next. Mr.
Holmes is a general favorite especially with the
young men because of his interest in inter-chureh
athletics. Our own pastor Rey. A. J. MACDONALD
is deliverering one of a series of Jectures to College
Students at University Church,” |

As might be expected I found photographs of
JEAN FRASER and MABEL Morrison in close proxi
‘mity. Our little Jeanie had at ‘last made up her

mind and looked very dear’ and winsome in her
bridal attire. That was many years ago, but IT had
kept in close touch with both girls and knew that
the clever young lawyer whom she had married
later became a very famous judge of the Supreme
Court of Canada. Mabel took her Doctor’s degree
in Philosophy and then lectured for a year in psychology at a Canadian University where she was
known -as “The Little Doctor’. And then Mabel,
who was never known to lose her head at a
mathematics examination, lost her heart to a brilliant young mathematics p r and after the
wedding went to jive within visiting distance of
Jean,

I ag taleedies <aeta gh eons die af Fs
pleasant  aseagg Ane in Europe and her return to Scotia found time for
good times socially and well-thought out relief work
among the needy in our city, ,

 
  
   
  
     
    
    

OETA

af Las r
12) ae pia dh Bee, i
oe e a et Pah .. +

PP im

  

a

CO ee Se Se _

 

em me +

VALEDICTORY
Delivered by Ian Keith Forsyth.

say farewell is the task that has been
assigned to me. I use the word task be* cause the saying of farewells has ever been
a, difficult undertaking. It means a separation,
a breaking away from old and cherished assiciations. For us it means the partial removal of
something that has entered into and occupied a
large place in our lives. It involves the making
of new associations while retaining some of the
old, the creating-of new interests while not forgetting those we have left behind.

There is, however, another aspect to a farewell, especially that of a graduating class. The
very. word graduation implies the passing from
one stage to a higher and a broader. We stand
at the parting, or rather, the broadening of the
way. We look back with affection over the road
that we have traversed. We look forward into
the new and untravelled pathway with hope and
faith born of the training and preparation received here at Dalhousie.

To say definitely what our college course has
meant to us would require an answer from each
individual student. Yet there are, I believe, certain common possessions which are ours to-day
which we could not claim four years ago.

So let us consider, for a moment, just what
our privileges have been, what as a graduating
class, our possessions are; what it is we prize

 

‘so highly, and place so much value upon, that

instinctively we feel desirous of making some
return. :

We have been permitted to remove ourselves
from the rush and worry and din of the world
for four long-to-be-remembered years to receive
a university training while the majority of
young men and women are compelled, at an early
age, to take an active part in the world’s work.

We have been permitted to sit before professors, each highly trained, zealous and enthusiastic in his own particular line; before men
who in addition to teaching have not failed to inspire us with a desire of living a noble and a
useful life. :

We have been permitted to associate with a
large number of men and women, fellow students, who are preparing themselves fior one profession or another. Students of our own and
other provinces gather at Dalhousie for a, period
of study and preparation. The atmosphere of
the University is one of aspiration, of aiming
and working toward an object above and beyond
one. Fellowship in such a group, with such
aims, cannot fail to foster and develop the best
qualities in one.

In addition to all these things we have, I believe, received something of equal, if not of
greater value, namely, a certain power or the
nucleus of a faces of looking at life and the
world from a hed point of view. A capacity
rr architect has of ing at a distance

from there viewing the whole structure
ap he is building. The :

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

oC , stu
peer i alias id } aL oe Sai
Lf 5 - a
at “et econ
, SS ee See vw ee
Hy } ‘+ = "
Lo 2

ot

gg pe Ce

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

_---—

 

— ee, ——_ =

B. Sec., or any degree. Only one furrow turned
in a field of vast dimensions. We are merely
being prepared for that long and strenuous task
of becoming acquainted with the world in which
we live, for learning to know something of ihe
men and conditions of life which preceded our
age, for finding out the way in which we can become of most service to the world.

_ As education in the widest sense of the word
is the aim of Dalhousie University, is the purpose of her professors and instructors then the
problem, how can*we best repay our Alma
Mater, resolves itself into a continuation of ihe
work which they have begun.

It is for us to tread year after year the road
whose first difficulties have been removed as a
result of the four years we have spent within
the college walls. It is for us to continue in
the path on which our feet have been firmly set,
along which our faces have been turned witi
hope and faith. It is for us, like those before
whom we have been privileged to sit as studenis,
to forget the rewards, the glory and honor of
men in our desire to serve, to give what we have
received to those who have not.

In saying farewell to our fellow-students and
especially to the Junior class, which has tonight given us the opportunity of seeing ourselves as others see us, the dominant feeling in
our minds is one of loss. For three years we
have had the privilege of your comradeship with
all that that word implies. To-morrow we will
leave the university and the life to which you
have contributed so large a part. Our hope in
leaving is that in future years many of the acquaintances made here at Dalhousie will be renewed and consummated in life-long friendships.

Admiration, blended with the respect due
from disciples to their masters, characterizes
our feelings in parting with our professors. It
would be unavailing to attempt to express our
conception of what your unstinted services have
meant to us. It is sufficient to say that you
have given us a real appreciation and insight into the things which cannot be seen, nor handled,
the things of the mind and the spirit.

I, K, FORSYTH.

 

EXCHANGES.

Argosy—“A Fortnight in Stratfiord-on-Avon”
is an instructive article to be found in the March
Argosy. You are extremely fortunate in your
acquisition of the “Gesner Collection”.
in receipt of your first weekly issue and note
with interest your intention re a weekly Argosy
next term.
mendable as the “extra” the change will doubtless meet with approval.

The Xaverian—The editorial “Knockers” contain much truth. Generally we find that it is
the person who does the least work (if any) that
does the most knocking. The article, “Concrete
Facts on Cement” is instructive. Your magazine
is the the best balanced of all the college publications we have received—there seems to be no

of prose and verse writers of merit among
your students. |

The Sheaf—“Newsgathering’4 as pictured by
W. L. MacTavish, editor of the Saskatoon Daily
Star, is the title of an illuminating article to be
found in the March issue of this publication.

The Ubyssy—“Credits for Activities,” an
editorial conta in the March “Ubyssy”, is
worth considering, but just where would you
draw the line? ‘The poem, “Overtaken”, is
meritorious.

ali Gece a,
Sort Gert wrighe ml ear

é

written.

 

a Ee ng et eee

PELE EOS, AS TS eS + tee:

We are |

eet

If the future issues are as com- |

net

  
   
  
  
    
   

pA

* , >: , a
f : heed : 4 = sia x
b. von eee ite aN
4 a ae hy RY
‘ goat

11

 

 

 

Trinity University Review—This magazine
contains an article which doubtless would be of
interest to many—‘Aristotle on Danci
is also an instructive article on H.
which is well worth reading.

”. There
. Wells,

The Gazette also acknowledges with thanks
the following:— MacDonald College Magazine,
The Student, The McGill Daily, The Gateway,

University Monthly, Yale Divinity, The

Presbyterian Witness, The Truro Daily, Parrsboro Record, the Scroll, McMaster, ete.

The May number of The Acadia Athenaeum
has specialized in “short stories”, and several
of them possess more than ordinary merit, Of
the other work “The One-Act Play” may well
rival some of Leacock’s sketches, and the article
on Pauline Jiohnson is especially interesting. The
jokes are very clever and witty. Perhaps a little
more space might have been given to such an
important event as the Intercollegiate Debate.
We thank The Athenaeum for their commendation of our issue of Mareh 29th.—M.

This ends the exchange columns for this
term. We thank all those on our Exchange list
for the:r interesting publications and also for
their criticism of our paper, whether favorable
or otherwise.
graduation numbers are not yet to hand. In
closing this column we wish to say that we hope
that any criticism coming from this paper has
been received in the spirit in which it was made
and that all the college publications may strive
to attain the best possible standard in bringing
before the student body in general the literary
aspirations of their contributors.

We are sorry that the various

D, C, Corgunoun,

GRADUATION NUMBERS

Xaverian (St. Francis Xavier)—The literary .
excellence
much credit upon the able editor and his staff.
The poem “Offered” is very good. Space does
not permit a review of the several excellent
prose pieces,
Ignorance of the Educated,” is
special mention because of the sound advice it
contains.
by the closing line: “What doth it profit a man,
if having gained the entire curriculum, he loseth
his health.”’ The Intercollegiate Debate is given
a good “write up” and is a further proof of that
good fellowship and camaradie that has always
| ey tel these two colleges (Dal. and St,

true college ring to the production and awakens
us to the fact that the Spring fever worked
havoc in other colleges besides our own.

of the graduation number reflects

but the article, entitled, “The

deserving of

Several of our students may benefit

“Grinds” and “Advice to Boys” gives a

on?

 

SETTING SAIL

» velvet curtains of the night move back,
1 in the east the flaming torch of day
ds its transparent radiance o’er the world; 
obins sing their anthems of the dawn,
lewy buds awake and on the breeze
floats the mystic music of the sea.
hips that rest within the harbour’s arms
1 their white sails and joyfully sail forth
ne vastness of the mighty deep:—

ters which they leave are touched with
their depths the face of heav’n appears;
to which they steer are dark and wide
bled with the strife of many storms.
! the wind is playing in the shrouds—
! the sea gulls cry, and from below
the merry music of the waves... _

  

    
 
 

‘

 
 
  
 

 

is

 
 

 

eile
‘ Tt
i Not).
i eed

:

ie g » al ae
12 i +

ah ats y fs
aah q

 

a
/ i i : 2442 eee
‘you. ai.
a tet = - = aren:
Oo ae eee ae ii
§ re p

= '

      

 
  
ree entice ae)

pre ee dt | THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 13

ene eee

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE | | }

me —— a KS
a CS SEE a ew ete pte eS a Le =
- 
badd
bo

ett

 

cll ileal Si

, Sun |
: for that day included two addresses, a talk to the offered assistance to the | there

2 HOWARD W. MacDONALD. 1, ¥ Roy Scouts, a marriage ceremony, a’ meeting of the was arranged, and paved tea ram consisting
. Howard’s home is in Sydney Mines Pike @ vestry committee and then Mac Toronto at midere glad to cay he tes not changedztte-wno ct night to attend a meeting of the General Assembly.
Boing back fo" practioe right in his om Sere }ytn Mens Debating Soe, prayer meat
p town. That’s the spirit, | thaget ' to being the next > ee

in the box ad
 

GRADUATES IN DENTISTRY

 

GEORGE GREEN

Few students at Dalhousie were better known
and more appreciated than George Green, for
few entered into every phase of college life
more heartily than he. Dal did not have a more
enthusiastic sport fan than George... He would
not miss a football or hockey match at any cost,
and we all recall how much it added to the enjoyment of the game to be in the company of
boys when George was present. For, like a
true sport, he could cheer for his team whether
winning or losing.. Possessed of a clean, keen
mind, George was a student of exceptional
ability and always ranked high in his classes.
In Dentistry, his chosen profession, he intends
to establish a practice in Prince Edward Island,
his beloved home province. We can easily imagine him a most conscientious and successful
dentist, also a popular and worthy citizen of the
fortunate town in whch he will reside.

 

ZOLO GRONO.

Zolo is a Halifax boy and a general favorite
in the dental “octave”, for only to know “Zol”
was to like him. His genial manner and boyish
sincerity gave him an enduring place in our
esteem. He is making a start in his chosen
profession in New Waterfofrd, C.B., and all join
in wishing him the same success as he has had
during his course at Dalhousie. It might be fitting to add that his education is not limited to
Dentistry alone. Zolo can sprint a half mile and
catch the good ship Chebucto with an accuracy
of which even Prof. Jones would not be
ashamed.

WILLIAM FRASER KEITH.

William Fraser Keith, generally known as
“Billy” Keith, is also a native of Halifax, and
when he ittakes his departure to Calgary in July,
he will be greatly missed by hosts of friends,
for their names are legion. The cheerful
“morning, glory,” always announced Bill’s arrival at the Infirmary, and even the gold fish
seemed conscious of his presence. He is a skilful dentist, and we expect to hear good things
of him in the future. We are glad that we shall
not be denied the pleasure of seeing him again
before very long, as he and Art Lilly are already planning a motor trip from Calgary to
see the “boys” in Halifax.

 

ALBERT C. HAYFORD.

Hayford hails from Digby county. After a
few years’ experience of teac’ in Sydney a.
Halifax respectively,. he decided to adopt di,.tistry as his life-work. His course has bee pa
very successful one, marked all through by ° adustry and care. Besides carrying a hemy
course for the two final years, he found tim o
teach night school two nights a week, and vy, hal made a creditable standing in his exurg:.,
having won prizes for three successive ~y dels.
Hayford is a very companionable fellow, ar gras

 

f + we 1 5 a SS — , : ‘_
ee ALi ad oeata a. SB

DONALD MUIR REED.

The genial “Skinny” first saw the light at
Middleton, and to beautiful Middleton he returns
with his degree. No doubt he is reminded of
the immortal Scott’s sentiments:

“Whose heart has ne’er within him burned,
As home his footsteps he hath turned,
From wandering through the Birchdale halls?”

We are sure that he will be well received by
the profession and the public; and deservedly
so, for his good work in Dalhousie may well be
emulated by his fellow. students. He was a
good sport, strong socially, and had a _ keen
sense of humor; and Middleton, no doubt, will
be proud of one of their own boys.

WILLIAM HENRY YOUNG.

“Bill” claims Freeport, Digby County, as his
birth-place. He, too, spent a few years moulding the plastic minds of the youths, his last
principalship béing that of Dominion, C. B. He
was a clever student and a good worker, winning the first prize for three successive years of
his course. Yet, “Bill” never had the moral
courage to miss a hockey match. As he did
not take an active part in college life, he was
not known much beyond his own faculty, and
only his intimate friends apprecaited his true
worth. At present he is engaged with the Red
Cross Clinic of Antigonish County as Dental
Surgeon, but has not fully decided on a permanent location, though Kentville may be his
choice. We know he will make good wherever
he goes, for he has the goods, and when it comes
to “putting it across”, leave it to W. H. Young.
It is also whispered that he may form a partnership in ‘the not .too distant future. Such a
procedure is quite a common one in dentistry,
and we give it only passing notce.

CLARENCE F, MONTGOMERY PURDY.

Last, but not least, we come to consider the
smal] man with a big name—Clarence Frederick
Montgomery Purdy. He was the only man in
the class who could lay claim to a title, for he
was known by all and sundry as “The Duke”.
He was the embodiment of coolness and equanimity. Even in the stress and strain of impending, exams, he bore himself with supreme
compostre characteristic of the independent
spirit of his home town of Moncton. Duke had
a dry sense of humor, was one of the besthearted sort, and of exceeding keen mentality.
We have not ascertained where he has decided
to locate, but we wish him every success in his
profession.

Class Prophecy
(Contfhued from page 10).

Wednesday, there being no less than ten members
of Class ’22 in Toronto on that day. Unfortunately

 

Toronto was unable to be present, His progr

There was an onet enve
dressed to Professor Jonn ope Sacro University. I knew that the text books prescribed
* ee and VII at Dalhousie were written
y ' ; S ;

At the bottom of the box a snapshot of

 
 

   

is known to repeat very often and in a dreamy,
reminiscent tone two words which sound very much
like French—Oui_ billet.”

The personal column of a copy of the Evening
Mail announced that Miss Jean Foote had lately
arrived from Korea. I remember having heard that
Jean had a very sincere regard for a little lad of
four years who happend to be travelling on the same
boat and who gave out his name as Paul, Malcolm,
David Kann. What’s in a name, I ask you?

I now caught sight of a letter I had written to
Mabel from Ottawa in which I described how Eileen
Burns ‘had come up to the capital and had abolished
the Canadian Senate. I had just come out of one
of the buildings where I had seen the Honorable
J. D. Fraser, MINISTER OF FINANCE, with his hands
full of papers and his head full of plans, and as I
was making my way to another building, a magnificent car in all its glory rolled up, stopped and
a lady and a gentleman alighted, He was tall, distinguished looking, dressed in black, wore a silk hat
and a dong black cord attached to his glasses. They
turned and faced me and I saw that it was none
other than Emken Burns and ————————— her
brother Gerald. Upon that day the Canadian Senate fell and not even its ghost was ever known to
haunt the senate chamber. Miss Burns’ eloquent
speech appeared in all the leading oars.

I saw a letter addressed to myself in Mexico.
Now I knew I had never been in Mexico and in my
eagerness to pick up the letter I overturned the box,
spilling the remaining contents. This movement
seemed to be the signal for general confusion, for a
moment later the air was full of papers and dust,
a veritable storm, until we were ankle deep, After
the hurricane had passed over I saw that the shelves
above had given way and the result was an availanche
of papers and dust. The book seller had returned
in time to see it descend and stood at the door, now
waving his arms and pointing to the outer door,
now bowing politely and asking us to graciously
leave: the premises lest the roof fall also, for he
sexmed to think that we were the cause of the disorder He was not to be trifled with in that mood
and the little French lady and myself meekly withdrew, dust and all, looking like smooched etchings
of our former selves. The little French lady bemoaned the loss of her book and I the loss of my
box, even though she kept telling me that there
never had been such a box, that I had fallen asleep
never had dreamed it all. If that be true, then I am
no prophet, just a dreamer of dreams, and the
members of Class ’22, illustrious though they may
be, have this in common with all humanity—“They
are such stuff as dreams are made of.”

 

The Commerce Society’s
First Year

N the spring of 1921 a meeting of Commerce
Students was held in the Science Building, to
consider the formation of a society to be known

as the Commerce Society. The idea met with ap
oval and the following officers were elected:—
‘eaerery President—Proieesvr B. C. Hunt; President—Mr. O. R. Crowell; Vice-president—Miss
Marion Hoben; Secretary-Treasurer—Mr. Douglas
Campbell; Members of the Executive—Mr. Clinton
Muir and Miss Juanita O’Connor.

A Constitution was carefully drawn up, largely
through the efforts of Mr. Clinton Muir, to whom
great credit is due for this piece of work.

_In order to stimulate the interest of the Commerce students and to them conversant with
contemporary business , the Society determined to hold a course of lectures, delivered by

“ 9 «i ; often
| Py sadberecomepin "He y rate Mir in Mahon: 4 our former president Rev. MaLco.m McDonaLp who prominent and experienced Halifax business men.
bids fair to take a high place in the profi. is pastor of the largest Presbyferian Church in Several were hed, all of whom manifested a
? amme keen interest in the Commerce Society, and generously

   

 

A

mie, fe
~ si
ey i
Ty
‘ om
ya

> ba Ca
i i , i ,i7 a
ee :
ae) ‘ a

J *
3 ; © veri
=| : -}

  
 
  

  
 

a
we,
.
+

 

 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
   

ty Hockey Team - 1922

iversli

Un

  
  

1e

=

   
  

Oo

D

   

 

CHAMPIONS OF MARITIME INTERCOLLEGIATE LEAGUE, CHAMPIONS HALIFAX CITY. LEAGUE.

   
 

14

 

 

 

 

| THE YEAR IN ATHLETICS

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL TEAM
CHAMPIONS MARITIME INTERCOLLEGIATE LEAGUE

HE obvious way to begin an article of this
+. nature is to assert that the athletic season at

Dalhousie has been most suecessful, Considered however by the sliding scale used in alll undergraduats publications, this statement may mean
little or nothing. No such publication has ever been
known to admit that the athletic year at their colleve was anything short of successful. If their
teams fail to win, they point to the sportsmanship
displayed in losing, or else declare that much new
material has been unearthed which will greatly help
the next season. This next season it is always anticipated will be a successful one. If it is not then
‘s had to that old “Handbook, of Alibis”
”’ olition, And so the game

resource
revised and correeted “x
goes on “ad inf.”
However, even when we allow for this “undergraduate license”, subtract and deduct, it ean still
ly asserted that the past athletic season has been
fairly successful at Dalhousie. If the interfaculty
affairs lacked a certain amount of “zip” the interco'legiate and City League fixtures were always
closely followed by the student body, and generally

suecessful for the college teams. In no event were
they completely oute'assed, Two Maritime  Inter
collegiate championships (football and hockey) and
one City League Championship (hockey) are ample
testimony,

In addition the Dal girls won the Intercollegiate fasketball Championship , and trophy which
was competed for, for thé first time last term.

Like “all Gaul” we may divide athletic endeavor at Dalhousie into three parts—we say “endea
vour” advisedly sines we wish to include one important phase—interfaculty athletics, The other
two phases are intercollegiate and City League.

Football comes first in priority of time but as far
as the City League was concerned last in priority of
success. For those who ask “why” the usual alibis
viven are that the Wanderers who won, had been
training a month earlier than Dal. that they had
all the luck and also Ritehie McCoy. Others who
take their athleties less seriously say that Dal let
the Wanderers win in order to show them what the
trophy looked like and also to keep up interest in
the league, Policies advocated for the future inelude the hiring of a coach, training three we ‘ks
before college opens, and special diet for the ath] ..s.
“Doe” Logan is reputed to have said that they cy n’t
need all that to win in his day, but “Doc” }ust
remember that “the spirit” that helped them 4 *win
in those days is not now procurable, r
In intercollegiate citcles we stayed on to 'Gyinning from Kings and St. F. X. in fairly reas ' able
fashion but rather walking away with the ty +t of
the other section—U. N. B. at Truro, §
The interfaculty fixtures lacked that sang Jinary
element which alone makes such contests in” sresting but still some of the boys managed to .zet a
little of their own back, As usual owing , the
jockeying of the various team managers t’® last
games were played sometime near the Xm: " holidays. ‘To prevent worry to those not mather, cally
inclined all eligibility restrictons ‘were at, T sned,
and only those who had previously won a “, - were
debarred from joining in the battles, 1” » even
without John MacNeil we believe Arts mi/“"® have

won. They did anyway, had their picture °°: and
their name inscribed on the shield thus ¢ 8" fying
all the old traditions. The hyphenate ec ation
the Pharmadents under the able tutilage gMARurray

Logan, although a bit slow in starting, we“I ming
along nicely about Xmas and with a } Surmoere
training might possibly have done better. ¥oH, Vs

Next in point of time comes hockey, Jhest ‘arted
under inausyicious circumstances. Foy stor vhile
things looked dark. For in the neig/’ who city
of St. John, a reformer had appearec:#! Serv. ame
was Covey, He is now well known s, not
digress, Suffice to say no one at yinge pie has
money enough to pay any player, p/hal geni facdonald took his team to New Glas,; It reaqd a
few games, returned to the city, ,fh, Halifaome
other obstacles and left for Bostea.s” er deck ‘Jost
both games. They were hardly gocl ,hued to p. the
“Harvard” and M, I. T. machines.,,;fe reverer Oh
yes, they turn about skate sidewa),,/ deck, ob way
their sticks by numbers at Harvar fearried 2

The city experts had it all fi, ge i” ™8 9” the
Boston trip that the chances fo. ®urk, seer the

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Back Row: R. McInnes (Manager), H. E. Langwith (Quarter), F. L. Moore (Quarter), G. M. Logan

(Forward), J. L, M. White (Half Back), M. Haslam (Half Back), M. McLean (Forward).

Center Row:9G. M. Bruce (Forward), N. MacKenzie Forward), K. K. Beaton (Quarter),

(Capt., Full Back), M. Porter (Half. Back), F. E. Coster (Half Back), L. McLean (Forward).

Front Row: A. Dunlop (Half Back), D. R. Sutherland (Forward), J. McNeil (Forward), W. M. Marshall

M. Britton, G. K. Smith (not in picture).

 

DALHOUSIE CITY LEAGUE BASKETBALL TEAM

J. E. Graham, A. I, Mader, J. E, Grant,

Manager. Forward.

Center. Forward.

 

G. C. Wilson, R. T. Miller
Guard

H. C. Muir (Forward), F. E. Coster (Capt.), J. 'N. McNeil (Guard).

 

had no defense, the Duke’s were going back
him, they had no devwerle, tiny mere Wi out Tack
1. or “Leo” Fluck. But a judicious shifting of
layers worked wonders. L ly went back on deae esis ee “Bon Opto” for the a G. K.
n the way, and the
watching him for an

 

Allan Dunlop and “Bricky” Dunn alterna
the other defense, while Rowthas Bates, MacKensa,
Hickey on, Benton as forwarde. a to work in
oug s to win. |
ini a | am, injured early
| ® game, and to win the Intereollegiate League Mt. A., at Amherst, But even

|

A. R. Lilly

 

in time to take part in the

 

i

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 15

ARTS AND SCIENCE FOOTBALL TEAM

Intercollegiate Champions, 1921-22.

Monte will admit it was a lucky win, The games
with Kings and St F, X. were easy compared to
the struggle with the Sackville boys. It was one of
the hardest fought games of the year, probably one
of the elosest in the annals of intercollegiate sport.
By this win Dal obtained the right to a cup had
there been a cup! No one has yet seen it.

Over Inter-facu.ty hockey we will draw the veil
—like they do in the anatomy room, Here again ‘the
jockey:ng of the rival managers’ particularly Medicine and Law, was enough to qualify them for a
position on any race track—By a rather peculiar
eoincidene® neither team was in tip top form at the
sime time. Result, no game, no result, no trophy.
Pharmacy might have won, No possibility
however slight will be excluded.

also

Lastly “footing slow” comes basketball, “Jim”
Graham led this “forlorn hope” and though Jimmy
didn’t win the city league, yet he and his team
have the honor of hanging up more records than any
of their predecessors. For where else in the annals
of Dalhousie can any other manager point to four
consecutive losses by a margin of one point per
game, or six games lost by a total of eight points.
vimmy did not annex the trophy but he has been
awarded, the palm, cups and other receptacles by
many of his fellow students. We also understand
that each member of the team will receive a separate
nickle plated memento of their endeavors. ‘They
j urneyed to Fredericton and St. John, also to Wolfv He, but dil not have sufficient time ito become acc.imatized and lost on each oceasion.

We are assured that there was an interfaculty
Basketball league. It operated in the New Gym.
Arts again won, The team had their pictures taken,
It wilt appear in the “Gazette”.

A word about the girls basketball team will
make a fitting finale. They were the only victorious
intercollegiate team in the college who received a
trophy emblematic of their victories. They deserved it for they worked hard, Even before Xmas
they were holding practices and it is a tangible
proof of their consistency of training that none of
the team attended the socia! event of the year—
the Delta Gamma Dance, which came on the night
before the erucial game with Acadia, Such consistency it must be admitted was hardly found among
the “sterner” sex,

No attempt ‘has been made in this article to
single out or to dwell upon the merits of any particular athlete.

A word about those who will not be back next
however seem fitting. Of these the
most prominent is Art Lilly of football and hockey
fame and Captain of last year’s rugby team. For
three years “Art” has been in the forefront of both
sports, and his absence will be greatly felt. He
was an ideal type of ‘college athlete taking part in
all the games but at the same ‘time keeping well
up with his studies. Gordon K, Smith is another
—perhaps a little less finished than “Art” in both
games but husky, willing and a general favorite.
When “G. K.” was in the game the other team knew
it, but unfortunately also the referee.

He and “G. K.” never could, agree. Lloyd
Machksan front liner for the past two years also
graduated in Medicine. He was one of the best
ncelers Dal ever possessed. John N. MfeNeil who
worked his way up from the interfaculty ranks to
the Senior team in football received an M. A, an
will not be back. He was allso for two years guard
on the City League Basketball ‘Team. His career
here refutes the idea that Dalhousie does not develop athleties, Tommy Horsler of Pharmacy was
only at Dalhousie one year, but became welll known
as a member of the hockey team. He was a willing
and persistent wielder of the willow, always on the
puck and always working hard. He showed up at
Boston where he was rated as one of -the best of
the Dal team. Of second team material quite
number will not be back. Laurie Stearns who was
a spare serim man for the Seniors and played in one
game; “Obie” O’Brien for three years one of the
most aggressive of the Juniors, Rod Richardson the
“stormy petrel” of all college activities, and several
others might be mentioned. In the matter of team
managers the college has also suffered a loss. Probably the most popular manager the hockey team
has ever had and also one of the most efficient was
Basil Courtney who graduated in Law. “Rod” Macdonald, who piloted the team during the past most
difficult season also graduated in Law, as did Russell MacInnes, manager of last season's football

 

Fourth Row: W. C. Harrison, J. N. McNeil, D..Sutherland, H. A. Frame, W. Richardson, R. G.
Johnstone, Third Row: M. M. McOdrum ( Manager), BE. M. O’Brien (Coach).

Second Row: M. I. Mader, W. A. Gunn, L. Sterns (Captain), S. B. Profitt, D. M. Clouston, J. G.
Lawrence. First Row: W. R. Hewatt, M. D. Macaulay, R. M. Richardson, A. Robertson.

 

ARTS AND SCIENCE BASKETBALL TEAM

Winners of Interfaculty League, 1921-22.

year would

 

Back Row: W. R. Hewatt, W. C. Harrison, R. Robb, W. Richardson, D. M. Clouston.
Front Row: H. E. Campbell (Captain), A. Frame, D. M. Sinclair.

 

_———— al,
é
content with standing back and encouraging the or lose so long as they have the fun, It is to be

more expert. Ml that wae the coming term full a
studen

a hess losses there ought to
n spite however of these losses there 0
be shandent Catal i The only way such a result can be at- hope

tained is by more interfaculty and interclass games. e New Gym., and that a

t r for first
material present nex will be taken of 't

class rt. at is more
cneattal, A ee nc student should Every class should have its team, good, bad or in- will be given an opportunity to participate in some
himself take some active part in sport—not be merely different. It should not matter much if they win line of sport. J, A. Dontor
16

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

LADIES’ INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATE

ALHOUSIE without a doubt ought

to be proud of her girls after the
splendid success they attained in the
intercollegiate debate held in the School
for the Blind on the evening of March
29th, 1922. This is the first event of
its kind for the girls since 1914, before
the war, which was the result of quelling of so many functions for both boys

 

and girls.

they could display
as fine material by
their eloquence and
fluency of speech
as the men.

This debate revealed much material that had hither
to been lying hidden and _ proved
that girls when given a chance have
quite as much ability as men.

The Dalhousie
girls felt that in
meeting the Kings
College Team they
would be up
against somewhat
of a stone wall,
for we understand
that debating is
one of the classes
in our sister college
which is compulsory for every stu
At that time there had just
begun a series of competitions in the
debating line and girls who had from
time immemorial been kept out of the
public eye had a chance to show that

inferior position yet what counts now
is nimble wit and dexterity of muscle.
Lower wages makes her liable to exploitation by her employer and tends
to deve.op an inferiority complex. By
lower wages woman is given a smaller
purchasing power for the necessary
comforts of life. Lower wages is a

cause of sex immorality; woman has a
soul; it gives a wrong perspective to
She emphasized the fact

matrimony.
that living as we do in a christian country with christain ideals, it seems al
The Dalhousie Girls Intercollegiate Debating Team 1921-22

Winners of the First Ladies’ Debate.

 

wages with men because there were so
many in industry and whereas women
are an increasingly important social
factor, we look to them for support.
Women increase production by increasing the number of available workers and
increase the quantity and eliminating
the unfit they increase the quality.
Miss Pauline Harris on the negative

also wandered a bit from the resolution
and argued that it abolishes the home
by taking woman out of her place in it,
and causes immorality by children being
neglected; also causes immorality if
woman’s wages are
as large as man’s,
bringing about divoree. Receiving
same wages ruins
& woman’s chances
‘for marriage and
puts her on same
level with man,
doing away with
chivalry, It makes
her instinct of that
position rule her
maternal instinct.
lt lowers birth rate
by making fewer
marriages, She concluded by saying
that no good ean
come from removing woman from
her own place in
the home where she
is of more economic
value.
Miss Amy McKean, of the affirm
dent. However ative, emphasized
Dalhousie has pe — that the highest
proved that by pre- Miss C. Jean Annand, Miss O. V. Attlee, (Leader), Miss A. MacKeen, hopes of civilizaparation with dili- ‘ tion are realized by

gence she was able to successfully cope
with the Kings team.

Before the debate Miss Jean Kennedy rendered a much enjoyed solo,
after which Miss Emelyn McKenzie, as
chairwoman, spoke a few words encouraging girls debating and said that she
was able to match wits with the oldest
university of Kastern Canada. She then
introduced Miss Olive Atlee, leader of
the affirmative, who arose in a very
decided yet pleasant manner and put
before her. audience the question to be
debated: ‘*Resoitven that women should
‘receive equal wages with men for equal
work performed.’’ Her arguments were
systematically arranged, forceful, and
delivered with the gase of one who was
quite accustomed to public speaking, and
may be condensed to seven emphatic
points, namely: that although tradition
had always placed woman in physically

most impossible that opinion could be
so unfair.

Miss Marjorie Andrew the leader of
the negative, next arose. She is a very
pleasing speaker but lacked the force
shown by the first speaker. Her chief
argument was that woman should not
receive equal wages with man because
she has always-been satisfied with her
place in the home; ‘that -it would be
unwise for her to receive equal wages
because of her physical nature, her disposition and her anatomy, that woman
can not stand monotony. Her points
seemed quite out of line with the resolution, arguing that women should not
enter industry rather than that if already in industry their wages should
be equal to those of men.

Miss Jean Annand on the affirmative argued that it was a decided injustice if women did not receive equal

giving men and women equal wages; it
is true social progress due to emancipation of women. The state admits her
equality therefore she is equal in the
industrial world. In arts, music, movies,
ete, men and women get equal wages,
why should not all who labor receive
the same? Few women have only themselves to support, therefore it would be
a grave injustice to make distinction
between married and unmarried women
when it isn’t made betwen married and
unmarried men.

Miss Mary Jemison of the negative
in a pleasing manner brought forth the
subject of the minimum subsistence
wage, pointing out that a man has a
wife and children to support whereas a
woman needs only one third as much
on which to provide the necessaries for

herself. Man replaced by woman she °
(Continued on page 18). Sah

ee

Rag RE BROGAN «AL

at

a a

es

&
ff
W
?
&
;
'

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

17

THE INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATE

NE of the most keenly contested

intercollegiate debates of recent
years was held in the Navy League
Building, Halifax, on the twenty second.
of March. Saint Francis University
debaters contested Dalhousie’s intercollegiate team on the following question:
‘‘Resotvep, that labor is more responsible than capital for our undesirable
economic conditions and those of the
past few vears.’’ St. Francis upheld
the affirmative. The auditorium was
crowded to its utmost capacity and hundreds were turned away. The intense
interest of the audience in the subject
of debate was manifested by the remarkable attention
that was given to
every speaker.

Mr. Mark Murphy
in opening the debate for St. F. X.
said that conditions
were unsatisfactory, and that some
of these were due to
labor, some to capital some to both,
some tu neither.
Labor was more responsible however.
he stated, because
it was more unreasonable having less
education and thus
being more likely
wrong. Facts, he

stated, confirmed
this reasoning.

Labor was responsible for the lack of
co-operation, and
was the blinder of
two forces.

The activities of

labor during the \
past ten years, Mr.
Murphy declared, had made them more
disgruntled even than before. ‘The
forces of competition, in the long run
would affect capital by inducing other
capitalists into lines where large profits were to be made. Prices were not
fixed by capital, but by supply and demand and labor was blind and unreasonable when it preached the doctrine that
capital was responsible. The most progressive countries in the world were
those which had lots of capital.

Mr. Murphy presented his case in a
very pleasing manner. !

Mr. M. ©. MacDonald who opened
the ease for Dalhousie contended that
the affirmative according to the interpretation of the resolution must establish that each undesirable economic y‘.,’
ition with which they deal is of 9 ‘to

, 4

- f
ae cS ia tin : A ‘én! nx = Ss

quence vast enough to be a world-wide
undesirable economic condition; that
they must establish that both, organized
and unorganized labor is responsible.
He contended further that they must
show labor is more responsible than capital while if the negative could show that
capital is equally responsible with labor
then they would have defeated the resolution.

His first argument was that capital
is in absolute control and domination
of industry world-wide and that the
most fundamental undesirable economic
conditions have resulted under this

Dalhousie Intercollegiate Debating Team, 1921-22

 

Mr. L. W. Fraser, M. C. McDonald (Leader), J. H. McFadden.

control of capital. He produced the evidence of the British Trust Report of
1919 drawn up by the leading economists of Great Britain, which showed
that tin the leading industrial countries
of the world industry was controlled by
chains of trade associations made up of
the leading capitalists in each of these
countries. For instance, in Germany
500 of such associations controlled the
whole industrial fabric of the state. In
Great Britain sometimes a whole industry such as the chemical industry is
controlled by a single capitaliste organization. He quoted many examples
from the United States such as the U. S.
Steel Lorng “St ae ee
‘“iporting it and f billions of dollars
ties getting in me -hundred plants. He
for lectures, e+ .-‘eagues would show

that under this control the most vital
and fundamental undesirable economic
conditions have occurred. In the words
of an editorial of the London Round
Table, Capital, since it dominates and
controls industry in every branch, must
bear the greater share of the: responsibility for our industrial troubles.’’

Mr. MaeDonald’s seeond argument
was that labor is not more responsible
than capital for the undesirable economic conditions resulting from the war.
It was conceded that Germany precipitated the war. He produced gueh eminent authorities as Dr. Howe of Wigconsin University
and J. A. Hobson

of London, estab
lishing on their
evidence that the
capitalistic class

of Germany before
the war dominated
not only the industrial but also the
political life of the
nation. The great

operators of the
great munitions
plants by every
means in their

power worked upon public opinion
in order to create
a sentiment for
war, to develop
war seores ete., in
order to inerease
their own profits.
According to the
authorities quoted
Germany  capital
ists desired war
for three selfish
ecoromic reasons

such as the desire
for more lucrative
foreign markets
ete. Mr. MacDonald stated that in order
to lay the responsibility upon either capital or labor for the undesirable economic
conditions resulting from the war, it
must be determined which of these was
more responsible for precipitating the
war—which was relatively more responsible, capital or labor. He contended that capital must surely bear
the greater responsibility because the
indisputable facts quoted from the
above authorities showed that labor had
no part in bringing about the desire for
war, which sprang up in Germany, nor
in: precipitating the conflict.

Mr. D. S. MacDonald, although he
was) the youngest man on the 8. F. X.
team, very favorably impressed the
audience.

(Continued on next page).

 
18

| INTERCOLLEGIATE
DEBATE

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 17)

Mr. Leonard Fraser, the second
| speaker for Dalhousie, advanced two
| additional arguments for the negative.

Mr. Fraser produced a report of
Prof. Douglas, of Chicago University,
to show that workers in twelve leading
industries of the United States required
wage increases ranging from 22 to 59
per cent. to bring them up to a standard
of a budget of $1,600 per year per family
of five, and this was at a time when the
government’s own budget was $2,200 per
family.

Although this was Mr. Fraser’s first
appearance as an intercollegiate. debater, he presented his arguments in a
clear, logical and fluent manner. He has
a very pleasing style of speaking, and
the debating world has yet a great
deal to hear from him.

__Mr. MeGowan, for the affirmative
side, stated that labor was responsible
for the present unemployment situation. There was a shortage of goods,
which meant high prices and ‘lowered
real wages’”’. Capitalists could not pay
the wages demanded and had-to close
their factories.

Mr. MeGowan was undoubtedly the
ablest speaker on the St. F. X. team.
To a large extent the decision given was
due to the effect produced by his speech,
coming as it did near the close of the
debate. |

Mr. McFadden closed the debate for
Dalhousie. The fifth argument of the
negative was that labor is not more responsible than capital for the high cost
of living, and the unemployment resulting from it.

The judges. Dr. Borden, Dr. Jones,
and Dr. Boyle, handed @ unanimous de
cision for St. F. X. to the chairman,
Dr. MacKinnon.

The visiting team were the guests
j of honor at a banquet in the Green
| Lantern. President MacKenzie presided and congratulated both teams on
their splendid efforts. The address of
welcome was made by Mr. J. 8. Bonnell,
who had coached the Dalhousie team.
He spoke of the excellent relations that
had always been maintained between
Dalhousie and St. F. X. In eongratulating the winning team, he stated that
while he had had the pleasure of coach| ing winning teams for Dalhousie, he
| never felt prouder of a winning team
B.S than he did of the team which had just
Ps represented the interests of our college
in debate, in spite of the fact that they

had lost the decision.
‘Speeches were made by the three

judges, who commented on the ability
debaters the difficulty that

 

    

  
 
    

 

ee Tt e-—SSSSSe shes tissesses-e=seesdtepe

 

  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The leader of the St. F. X. team ex
pressed, on behalf of his colleagues, an See Rene Sener eae $ ts
their appreciation of the reception ac- Net expenditure ...............s000e++ 187.90
corded to them by the Dalhousie Sodales Debating Society.
students Sl GEIS iivi's iv cue dae Ciecaya’ $ 250.00
. ROMMEL DOCH. oc cccccdacccteescerweses 18.25
INGE  GHUIEIOUND: ab cxtsd beecietsvecans 231.75
. Glee Club
LADI KS DEBATE on @XPONGitiMe 2. ccc ecsecrecsevenns $ 15.00
Obal receipts ........ccesecsesseeeens 19.00
(Continued _— page 16). Net receipts ..... ‘ +s F Setaste das 4.00
/ , Total expenditure ........cccessesoees $ 73.22
implied is a loss of efficiency which is No receipts ...........scseceeeeeeeees
against the world’s best interests Delta Gamma
| : : : . T GE: ceeckeabbhsda tiaseawe ;
Rebuttal is delivered first by Miss Ries RAS ha BREE el oS oO
Andrew who says that equal wages is Gazette
not justice and is not satisfying a Boe seeds Gh tar Gomes abe keh” ”
mother’s heart. It is not expedient be- by the Business Manager.
cause she can’t produce as. much as—a ete! on Account D. A. A. C,
man, It robs man of his ideals to give Total bn + gl wie euaeius tesacod . 160 e
woman equal rights and gives the same tb Special Football Train to Truro,
res yonsibility of law 0 Stal GROOTNUG oii scucevvesseses 487 .50
A pone wy Woes, TM a cles. ey 472.30
world needs more mothers, does not need Net expenditure ..................... 5.

20

On behalf of the members of the Council I

wish to thank the officers of the various societies

as ‘well as the whole student body for their co
operation during tthe term without which a successful year would have been impossible.

(Sed.) L. W. RRASER,
Secretary-Treasurer,
of the Council of the Students

more labourers. She indicated that the
third speaker of the affirmative was off
the point, that it was neither justice nor
expedience because woman is not as efficient as man.

Miss Atlee in rebutting the negative
accused them of arguing around the
resolution, she said they were not debating whether woman should or should not
go into industry. She says a woman
can sympathize with how a man feels
if both working rather than produce discord. She believes that it is better for
girls to be working than doing nothing
like many girls seen around. In conclusion she asks her opponents if they expect better marks to be given to the men
in the coming examinations just because
they are men.

- The judges, Miss Allen of Lunenburg, Mrs. Fielding of Windsor and
Miss Blackwood from Halifax Ladies’
College gave the decision, with two
points for Dalhousie and one for Kings.

It was with great satisfaction that the

The J ames Gordon MacGregor
Fellowship in Physics

It is with much pleasure that we announce the establishment of a valuable
Teaching Fellowship in Physics in
honour of the late James Gordon MacGregor, F. R. §.; who held the Physics
chair at Dalhousie from 1879 to 1901.
This Fellowship to the value of eight

ble by the generosity of the MacGregor
family, which has always been a loyal
friend of Dalhousie.

It is a particularly pleasing and ap‘propriate that the first fellowship of
this character at Dalhousie should bear
the name of one who has done so much

coaches, Prof. R. MeG. Dawson and to bring fame to Dalhousie by his origi
Prof, Wilson, listened to the debate for ual contributions to our knowledge of

they realized that their time had been ’ Physics and Physical Chemistry. Let

valuably utilized and they were being us hope that the men who have the hon
amply rewarded. : our and privilege of holding this FellowR. M. F.

man whose name it bears.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF THE The MacGregor Fellowship is to be
STUDENTS’ COUNCIL awarded yearly under the following conretary-Treasurer of the Council of the ‘itions— )

(1) A eandidate must have his
Bachelor’s Degree and must have attained high rank in Physics in his undergraduate course. |

(2) The holder of the Fellowship
must carry on at Dalhousie an advanced course of Study and research for a

$230.10 was expended on the Council

   

    

       
   

 
 
 
  

   

 
 

Skating “™* ei
expenditure ....../ on the affirf?#4-00 | et
| ie Bt ee rot Me hn i Rg

® J Ly r fee 2=
eet tanee 9 nAoanaw aii oa) ay Wea ake
== hee r —_ FF ww ‘NA - ae : SIPFIVT
0.0.0 6:90 0) i ee ee ‘ee TD -dhadcmme hte
i i e fA La - = of Se Lv ot P= - ia Pus! Pie fe le F a >" es
re A aig it sir oe BE
"aul Oe * oa er

4 —
SO pee SE iF
Me ie = s
J el ..

es eo
ne ae ee

*

hundred dollars has been made possi
»

ship may be filled with the epirit of the

pee wll = -hetay full college year. Elid |

D. A. A. C. . (3) He will be expected to devote

Tou senelgee srtsscsisecseesesensee time not jo encsed twelve heats per week
Net ) Viv eeesscteccvnv eu vee : | » de 10nstI i et

      
 

The Arts And Science Students
Society had about as successful a year
as any of the other college societies.
The attempt was made in the fall to
hold several debates and, after two
were held, the project had to be
dropped. Plenty of the students seemed to be willing to turn out and listen
. but very few could be persuaded to take

an active part.

In athletics, we were very suc
cessful. The Interfaculty football team
won the league without being scored
against and brought back the Shield to
the Studley library. The basket-ball
team won every game they played in
their league. In hockey, the best we
could do was tie one game. Much more
interest was taken in sport than in
previous years and much credit is due
the coach and managers—K. ' M. O’Brien
and M. M. McOdrum especially.

It had been hoped to open the
new term with a danee on the completion of the ‘‘gym’’ but the attitude
of many students put a damper on that.
If future Arts and Science dances are
to be a suecess, a fee will have to be
started in the Society so that the Eixeeutive will have some available funds.
There was no hope of making a financial
success of a dance this vear.

Two or three well attended meetings
were held in the Spring. A motion of
censure on the ‘Glee Club’’ executive
provided the excitement at the first one.
The second was over the Council
elections and the Society put themselves
on record as favoring a revision of the
existing Council Constitution, and
the starting of a decent financial system.
All the elected members promised to see
that the question is not dropped next
year. The annual meeting was held in
March. D. 8S. Thompson was elected
President for 722-23 and Hamilton,
Secretary-Treasurer.

5 R. Me. D. RICHARDSON,
‘ ' Pres. Arts And Se., 1921-22.

 

 

it
=<.
“tS =
i en ee a,
- :

| The Year With The
Engineers

While the Engineering Society can4 not lay claim-to a very startling year, it
Ps was certainly a year in which many
J new things were undertaken.
¥ It was the first year of the fee in the
Society and enabled the Society to take
a much larger share in Athletics. It is
te eh 1d the Society will continue the
fee—if only for the moral support it

sl ree ;

    
    

 

    

    
 
  
  

tee” iP ene |)?
oh ee ae |
ee eee |
P
=

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

year. The intention of the Executive
this year was to make the pin a standard Engineers’ Pin so no years or
class numbers were put on. The wits
of the college waged quite an argument
over a four-legged tripod but one of the
legs has since been changed to a plumbbob and the honor of the Society saved.

In athletics, the Society basket ball
team was runner-up in the Interfaculty
league and the winning Arts team of
the Interfaculty football league was
made up of over half Engineers.

The chief chemist of ‘‘Imperoyal’’
and the Electrical Engineer of the Nova
Scotia Power Commission lectured before the society early in the fall term.
The most interesting trips were to
‘“Hydrostone’’ and the ‘‘Shipyards”—
also in the fall.

The annual meeting was held in the
third week of March. Prof. Copp was
again elected Hon. President. This
years’ secretary-treasurer, D. Fraser,
was chosen president: Charlie Crease
and ‘‘Heggie’’ Morrison were elected
vice-president and _ sec.-treasurer respectively.

The only strictly Engineering Social
treat—besides the banquet—was the
theatre party in October. It was well
attended and, in spite of the opposition
of the press, was enjoyed to the full.
The banquet was held at the ‘‘Carleton”
this year on Saturday, April 29th.
Profs. Copp and MacNeill were the
euests of the society for the evening.
Speeches were the usual and only form
of entertainment—all of the men in the
final year were called on. Many of the
speeches seemed to find fault with the
present first year for their lack of interest in the Society. It was suggested
as a remedy that the banquet be held in
the fall, after this, so that the second
year could get a chance to become acquainted with the new comers. — Prof.
MacNeill said that—starting this year
—the men completing the Engineering
course were to be given a Diploma and
take part in convocation. Ever since
the Applied Science Faculty died out,
the Engineer has covered the hardest
two year course in the College and had
nothing much to show for it. We are
gad that the two year course is to be
recognized in this way. It will certainiy make the men going out from the
Engineering course more enthusiastic

On the whole, the society had a successful year—at least—the things we
did or did not do we were unanimous
over. The other Maritime Colleges
have a so-called Faculty of Applied
Science and are much more u an
we are at Dalhousie. As Engineers,
the only thing we have in common 1s the

   

   
  
 

Engineering Society. It is only
dareer’ it and increasing its ctv

19

gineering Students can get the proper
Kngineering attitude to make us think
we are members—to be the one and only
profession. Too many Engineering
Students at Dalhousie treat their course
as an ‘‘Arts’’ course. They join the
freshmen classes as they come in and at
least too many this year let the
Kngineering Society take second place.

R. McD. Ricrarpson,
Pres. Dalhousie Engineering Society.
1921-22.

Class ‘22 Picnic

LASS ’22 opened the summer season
at the Dingle when it held a picnic
at the North West Arm, the night before
graduation. Two boatloads of jolly
graduates numbering about forty,
assembled at the foot of Coburg Road,
whence they were transported to the
Dingle. Just as the crowd were on the
briny deep the sun emerged from the
black clouds and for the rest of the
afternoon smiled upon the happy gathering. oe
Immediately upon landing Rod Richardson busied himself making a fire and
was quite successful in his attempt.
While the water was boiling and the
smoke was pouring in volumes into the
pots, Bill Gunn and Jean Annand distinguished themselves at that juvenile
game called Hopscotch. Larry Mackenzie and John Dunlop entered a skipping contest but as each did very badly
the referee could not give a prize.

At the same time a ball game was
in progress at which Nettie Mackenzie
distinguished herself as beng the courageous captain of the losing side.

Then supper was served and never
did the eye of man gaze upon such superabundance. The salad was delicious;
owing to the fact that the boys at Birchdale made it, the girls ate of it until
they could eat no more. Much credit
is due to the class officers, especially to
the president, who so tastefully and
decoratively arranged the table. The
girls of the class, we are glad to report
made good cake, sandwiches and doughnuts (which were made by their

_ mothers.) |

After supper ‘‘double dodge’’ was
suecessfully played which was followed
by a peanut scramble, but in this last.
game. Jean Fraser and Larry Mackenzie won the prize. It was also considered necessary to give John Macneil and
John Dunlop special prizes as being the
largest eaters of the class. Jey 33

By this time the chilly night-winds
were blowing, so after singing Auld

Lang Syne the crowd got in the motor —
boats and proceeded homeward. — 4

 
  

  

  
University Hall

The end of the session was marked
by many interesting events at University Hall. Mr. Harvey left early in
April for B. C. to write the Bar exams.
in that Provincee—no brass rail in con| nection. While here he became fam| ous for a speech in the dining room and

later for being founder of the Halifax
| “Gyro” Club.
Then there was the meeting of the
Royal Court on April 17th to hear the
the case of Halfyard and House vs. the
Inmates. It gave us two hours of fun
and kept Bayer worrying over the time
he was losing from his studies, W. W.
Marshall, Gordon Bruce, Clyde Richardson, Jim Graham and Eric Jerrett
| were the officials.

The shell made its appearance on
April 19th and there was a_ regular
stampede for the early morning practices—medical students being very
much in evidence. Later the shell
was out in the evenings and generally
gave the odd hours’ exercise to many
of the boys.
fishing ‘Corabs”?

Perhaps, next in importance, comes
the billiard tournament thru the month
of April of that renowned hurdler,
Prof. Peck and our own star athlete
H. Monte Haslam. A game took place
every day and was always witnessed by
prominent members of second year medicine. MecPherson’s rooting was all
that could be desired and McKay rendered exeellent service fishing the
balls out of the pockets. Messrs. De
Wolfe, Guthro and Bruce usually lent
their moral support to the distinguished Professor.

_  Moustaches became fashionable _ towards the end of the year and all the

 

elite set out to grow one. The most
successful attempts were made by
Bruce, McPherson, Browne, Popple
stone and Goldberg.
After the resignation of the house
committee our ‘‘chase the train’’ ath
lete became C. 8. M., in charge of the bil- —

liard table. He was also cop the night
cof the Alumni Smoker and later for the
dance. Needless to say, Gordon has
been most officious in all his duties.
“he first week in May we again had
a fire seate when a spark set’ the shingles on the roof going. The eagle eye
of “‘Spud” Ellis saw it in time and our
valiant volunteer fire department soon

had the fire e er on the scene.
The Billiard Committee report a
successful year. Three tourna
very
Ree wert held and the winners were
Be Bouse +a ybell and Poirier. A shield

  

 

: a be added from ) neo ne 8

  

ry adr Tit
- mis)

Ellis has the prize for:

re the Board of

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

and hope lots of crimes are committed
so they can put in practice some of the
many typewritten pages that were
memorized the week of the exams, The
final year in Dentistry was represented
by Reed and Purdy. Kelley was the
only B. Se., and the only B. A. went to
Poirier’s roommate. Many of the final
vear of the Engineering course also belonged to the Residence.

The Residence base ball team played
two games—besides various practices.
Pine Hill was defeated 19-4 and a team
representing the rest of the University,
also meet defeat 8-4. Largely due to
the affidavit seare both games were
strictly amateur in ‘character. No admission was charged and there was no
limit~ to the errors. The parties in
charge of the campus cooperated to the
extent of spreading a mild form of mud
over what was then the outfield. The
Residence team later became the nucleus
of the team which plaved Acadia and
were a formidable enough group of balltossers.

Among the otherfamous men, we
came in contact with thru the year could
be placed the following. Prof. Sleggs
had his meals here. He is guilty of
writing articles for the ‘‘Sunday Leader’’. Profs. Peck. R. MeG. Dawson and
Mr. Harper also dined here.

The women at the semi-annual D.A.A.C,
meeting appointed Baxter official cheer
leader and he later became famous, in
the winter, for booking ‘rush’ seats for
the Birehdale boys at the Arena.
‘‘Oharley” early won the title of ‘‘ Lord
of the Birchdale and the realms beyond
the Arm’’. Jack Campbell joined the
chosen few early in the winter by taking Dr. Cameron on snow-shoeing parties. McPherson found a new compound among the ‘‘unknowns’’ and we
understand was also quite a sectionartist in the Anatomy Lab. Claude
Richardson practiced his M. A. thesis
on the young life of the third floor-usually in the small hours of the morning.

_It is expected the ‘‘University Club’’
will use the Residence again this summer. They have to pay rent and in return we believe they are going to build
a bathing house and make a decent tennis court.

Before this ends we must 6 saw a few
words on behalf of Mr. Nesbit. Rumors
came in March that he was to be released the first of June. In the words of
our Nova Scotia Bolshevik— James B’”’

ate are sounded as if some one had
s throat’’. A petition was sent to

   

ors say next year the Residence will be
run under the direction of a committee
with a matron in charge. As far as we
can see, the place is already committed
to death—one of the senate—one of the
Board of Governors—one a House Committee, ete—cannot be expected to function with still another. The idea of a
matron is evidently not to the liking of
the majority of those here this year.
There is more to running a Residence
than economy and even at that, the board
must be kept up to the level of that down
town for the same money. ‘To Mr. Nesbit’s eredit it may be said that all the
legitimate grievances of the last two
years could be written on a postage
stamp and in those two years not one
breach of discipline has been referred
to the college authorities. The idea of
a matron for ‘‘University Hall’’ reminds some of us too much of the old
Residence on Sackville Street, where,
if we turned around in a different way
from that we were accustomed to,—the
University office knew it right away.

Most of the Arts. Engineering and
Law students left early in May. The
Dental and Meds remained till May
26th. The graduation dance was held
here on May 11th. All the University
students and their friends were invited.
The Auditorium would have been taxed
to hold the crowd.

Fogo did good work as Residence
Reporter before Xmas. When he left
the laurel fell to Poirier. The only
reason for me writing this is I was
‘killing time’’ till Convoeation. I
hope the slams won’t kill anyone—if I
wrote of canoeing on the North West
Arm or of who had the most banners
in their room, it would not interest anyone. The ‘‘Lord of the Birechdale’’ has
accused me several times of being a
Bolshevik and IT was so glad some one
thought I was somthing. I never said
a word. Any way, Bosheviks are sup
posed to be able to make merrie with

their friends and are not held responsible for their actions. While I would
not like even to be a mild Bolshevik, I
would like to invoke their platform and
not be held responsible.

R. McD. Ricwarpson,

(ADDENDA)
Old MacDonald Had a Farm

( a aonet about the a
‘er poo
Old MacDonald had a fe

'E | E ma |

 

 

   
  

     
  
   
    
  
    

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

PINE HILL POST

IME flies. The session 1921-22 is
gone. It seems but yesterday since

the voice of Bill Forsythe was heard
weleoming neweomers to the Residence.
Surely eight months’ could not have
passed since George Green nominated
Kang as Pope pro temps. But the
term is really ended. The halls once
full of boisterous merriment and happy
din, now re-echo the footsteps of the
chance visitor.

One reason, perhaps, why the time
flashed by so quickly was that all were
busy. Never did there seem to be so
much to absorb one’s attention. Being
busy, we were happy. The great moral
reform championed by Clay, namely, the
removal of all limit to the butter ration,
added to our happiness. It also cheered all to greater and nobler efforts—at
the table. It is true that, on a few
occasions, the peace of the Home was
threatened.
when the new P. H. Council made rules
to curb the more unruly spirits. Some
prophesied dire disaster, fist fights
and life-long hatreds, but, like many
imagined troubles, they didn’t come at
all.

During the time between the last issue
and Exams. ‘‘tubbing’’ was the favorite
sport.
close seconds. , University Hall played
Pine Hill a game of baseball at Studley.
The former won. As nobody had a sliderule at the game, the final score cannot
be given. It must be admitted, however, that the victory was a decisive one.
Arnold Smith and Holmes are the star
ring-tossers. Some were suggesting
sending A. 8. and Holmes to play the
Studley Quoit Club.

It is my duty to report that during
the year that has passed, there have
been no deaths, nor births—except the
rebirth of George Burris’ taste for
Chemist There were three removals
during the term and 134 marriages—
A. B. being three-quarters gone. « Casualty lists show Collie MacNevin, sick;
J. A. Nick missing, and Bill MacOdrum
wounded by some fair co-ed’s glances.

     
 
 

   

    
  
  
   

The laurel wreaths have been placed

on the brows of a number of Pine

Hillers, First John Dunlop, last
year’s seribe, was Rhodes

Scholar. -o Millar Campbell was

nominated I. 0, D. E. Scholar. Three

class presid Mae MacDonald 22,

idy 94; were chos
of. Pine Hill

     
    

One such occasion was.

(Juoits and indoor baseball came

anee, trustin

McAulay, MacKenzie, Britton, J. E.
Grant and last’ and most of all, William
Alexander Douglas Gunn, whose subtle
appeal to the female element brought
him such a stupendous majority.

It is rumored that the large number
of cows widowed since the election is
due to Gunn. Skipper Morrison has
also been given some class job.

Over half the boys in Class ’22 dwelt
at Pine Hill. In spite of new sheepskins, it was with saddened faces that the
boys said farewell. It was hard to
think that they would not sleep under
the little red blanket again, that they
would not have the company of the
hundred and twenty boys with whom
they worked and played. Everybody
was sorry to see George Green go. The
veteran entertainer will be missed in the
University as well as at Pine Hill. Bob
MacKinnon’s
the Old Building in particular. John
MacNeil of basketball and football
prowess, leaves many friends and admirers behind,

One night before exams, Don Webster having a date with a M——was taking particular pains with his dress. He
wanted to look his best. ‘*Pa’’ was
trying to study Anatomy and was feeling rather. jealous. at Don’s happiness.
Said Don as he looked over an array of
collars, ‘‘What kind of a collar looks
best on me?’’. ‘A brass one, with a

‘chained attached,’’ growled Pa. Wow!

The girls of ’22 made the hearts of
Pine Hillers glad—particularly those on
the top floor by delivering a basket of
very appetising fragments from the ’22
picnic. The boys extend to these generous damsels their heartiest thanks.

It must be confessed that the Pine
Hill reporter did not present the happenings of each week in the hfighest
literary form. News hastily assembled
amid a pressure of work, could not have
the same standard as a carefully written
srticle. He therefore begs your forbear
has been readable and of passing interest. Any peresonal references were
diven in the kindest possible spirit and
were accepted thus by almost all.

L. A. Munro.

Dalhousie Untresalty Club,
Founded 1921

 

The aici meeting of the Dalhousie University Club was held at University ber (Birchdale) on the evening of

March 11
Dogtor spacial the ‘retiring:

departure meant a loss, to

that the Pine Hill Post

21

President, W. KH. Hillis, (711), Vice
President, Dr. J. H. L. Johnson, Ph. D.,
second Vice President, W. A. Nesbit,
Secretary, Dr. Gerald Grant, (M. D. O.
M.), Dr. J. L. Lyons, (M. D. C. M.),
-* John Cameron, Dr. Hennigar, D. D.

Professor Murray MaeNeill, M. A.,
Mies Carol McInnes, M. A., L. L. B. and
Miss Joyce Harris, ‘Executive.

It was decided that the Club should
carry out for this year at least at the
same annual fee as last year, namely
$5.00. Although this Club only started last year, it is in a flourishing condition, and has T'wo Hundred members at
the present time.

Its membership is confmed entirely
to Dalhousians, past and present, and
it gives them the opportunity of enjoying the beautiful grounds of University Hall during the summer months.

All present students residing in
Halifax during the summer months are
entitled to become members of this Club
on payment of annual fee. All members are entitled to nominate an associate member in accordance with the
bye-laws of the Club which are shortly as follows :—

(a) husband or wife of member.

(b) parents of members.

(c) children of members under 21.

r (d) an unmarried male or female
member has the privilege of nominating a male or female friend and to receive for them a ticket.marked guest,
providing he or she does not take the
benefit of (a), (b), or (e).

All students are invited to join the
club and those wishing to do so should
get in touch with Mr. Nesbit at University Hall.

Official opening of Club, June 3, 1922.

ENGAGEMENTS

GRANVILLE-WALLACE—Mr. F. R. Wallace announces the engagement of his sister, Greta,
to Dr. Edward Granville, of Halifax. Wedding to take place June 6th. ‘

TRURO NEWS

No less than three diamond rings are
flashing on the slender fingers of Dalhousie co-eds since Convocation. We |
offer our sympathy.

Clipped from the Truro News: Jack
Nicholson, Jimmie Colquhoun and A.
B. Simpson were in Truro on Sunday.
Larry Mackenzie also gave us a speedy
visit (7?)

Colonel John :— Tl now call the
ritbon.’’

roll:—K. M. B
A deep voice :—‘‘ Here, sir.”’
Colonel John :—*I don’t think I
need go on.”’

Tihe yo ie worehipped her bat :

 

 
 

 
  

22

—

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

HE; 1922 graduating class in law at
Dalhousie may be ealled the first
of the post-war classes and therefore
the first of the new era at the Maritime
law school, eminent in the legal education annals of Canada for over a third
of a century. The 1922 class is the
largest but one that has ever graduated
from the Law School, and the largest
under the new regime; that is, since the
curriculum was expanded.
special students, 29 took the third year
lectures in law during the college year
which has just closed. In addition, J. J.
Mclsaac received his degree in absentia.
Twenty-two were personally awarded
Law degrees on Convocation Day, and
it is expected that three others will get
their degrees this fall. This will make
a total of 26.

Of the 29 who took the course during the year, 24 saw some kind of war
service, a high percentage even for the
first post-war class to go through the
school. Of the 24, about half hold, or
did hold commissions, ineluding Lieutenant-Colonel J. Keillor Mackay, who
was for a time an acting brigadier-general on the western front. There were
also three majors, three captains and
half a dozen lieutenants. Five came back
with decorations—Col. Mackay having
the D. S. O., and J. D. Macintyre, Fred.
Jones, W. A. Livingstone and J. P. Connolly the M. C.

It would be practically impossible
to present a class whose members had
attained a higher academic average
than the 1922 class. In 1921, of the 19
who received their law degrees from
Dalhousie, 18 of them had already degrees in arts, two having M.A. degrees
and 16 B. A. One more would have
meant 100 per cent., which will probably never be reached until the school
becomes a graduate school.

From coast to coast, and even from
beyond Canada, they came to Dalhousie
to graduate from. the Law School in
1922. Frank Rowe, winner of the university medal and the third year Carswell law book prize, hails from Newfoundland, although now being an outand-out Cape Bretoner, with his home
in Sydney. Two are from far-off
British Columbia'and two more from
‘Sunny Southern Alberta’’. Another

air is from New Brunswick, and Mr.

cIsaac’s address is given as Prince
‘Edward Island, although he is starting
practice in Saskatchewan. ~

Among the most prominent members of the class is Col. Mackay, who
was president of the Law Society at
Dal in his final year, prominent in the
mock parliar nt and in other circles.

as an orator is of né mean

Mult re

ie

a ih wr
ese eae SRS i I ek Se ee

Including »

“pluck”? in exam, |

: =e but : ‘ee cs i
= = we Zz an te i ce) , Fi
i ‘A 4 a i * + = = ie ! ie ee ci _ ,
Not | Me aah) i Ae aed (AS ee

order, and he was a much ‘‘wanted”’
man at various times for that and other
reasons. Although carrying a heavier
load of classes than any other member,
Col. Mackay was ever in the front rank
in Other activities. He surprised himself, but he did not surprise anybody
else, by coming through it all with no
marks of the wounds he got in the big
scrap overseas.

The vice-president of the Law
Society during the past year was Mr.
Chipman, who, as stated, is already
practicing law. ‘‘Chippy’’ was secretary of the society in his second year,
besides being a football and hockey
player, and one of the leading students
in the class. ‘‘Chippy’’ is one of the
five members of the class who have already taken partners unto themselves
—not to practice law however. In other
words, five are married men—perhaps
more when this is written, and still
others before it gets into print.

George Ramey and Rod Macdonald
were benedicts before they ever started
to become lawyers, and the two famous
Bills, Livingstone and Dunlop, were
wedded during their college careers.
They have all lived through everything
to date. Bill Dunlop seems to be well
educated. He was second in the class
in total marks at the final exam and was
tied with Ron Fielding in the new course,
Domestic Relations. He says his marriage and this was a mere coincidence,
but next year’s class will bear watching. |
Mr. Fielding is another who was not
only an able student, always near the
top at’ exam time, but who found time
besides to be prominent in many university activities. Last year he was Liberal leader and ‘‘premier’’ in the mock
parliament and filled the position in
such a characteristic *‘Fielding” way
that many who heard and observed him
were reminded of his distinguished
uncle, Hon. W. 8. Fielding. Ron was
connected with the Students’ Christian

“Association, the Sodales Debating Club

and was always present when anything
‘‘Talhousie’’ was going on, being a graduate of Dal in Arts. t

J. P. Connolly, for instance, started
the Dalhousie Glee Club—and lots of
other things. He was president of the
Glee Club; there will always be something doing where Joe Connolly is—and
something different.

Athletes were plentiful in the ’22
class. The foremost was Art Lilly, the
Calgary boy who was on both hockey
and foot

and a star in each, yet never

Ee

teams of the University,

DALHOUSIE LAW CLASS OF 1922

the football team last fall and probably
the most valuable player. Fred Jones
of Dartmouth, was a hockey, football
and track athlete of note and president
of the Skating Club. Benny MacAskill
played both football and hockey and
was manager of the Law hockey team,
which might have repeated its 1921 vietory in the inter-faculty series but for
the lack of iee, which prevented playing
out the sehedule.

The 1922 Law class has at least
three singers, Joe Connolly; Lachy Currie, who was also a good speaker and
‘*progressive’’ leader in the mock parliament and Basil K. Courtney, who was
always in demand as an entertainer. Mr,
Courtney also managed the University
hoekey team in 1921, when it won the
Intercollegiate championship:

Some members of the class have al- ~~

ready located in legal work. Mr. Currie
has become associated with W. FF. Carroll, M. P., at Sydney, where Mr. Maceintyre will also probably locate. Dudley
MeGeer has gone to Vancouver, with his
brothers’ firm, and Messrs. Green and
Lilly in Alberta. A. W. Murray, president of the Students’ Christian Association this year, has picked Edmonton, Alberta, for his future labors, while Mr.
McFadden has chosen Regina. Both
ought to do well in the prairie provinces,
Mr. Murray having been minister of
agriculture in the mock parliament and
Mr. MeF adden a pronounced Progressive therein.

Among those who, for a time at
least, will remain in Halifax are Messrs.
Connolly, Crowell, Courtney, Dunlop,
Fielding, Macdonald, MeInnes, N. D.

Murray, lan Ross and Ramey. Messrs.

Nowlan, Grant and Livingstone are
likely to locate in other parts of Nova
Scotia. R. M. Palmer and J. K. Tre
carten, the two New Brunswickers of

the class, intend to practice in that province, though Mr. Trecarten may go
west. Col Mackay has connections which
may take him to Toronto. Mr. Jones
will go to England in the fall to pursue
his studies, having been awarded an
I. O. D. EK. scholarship.

Many members of the 1922 Law Class
were among the most prominent in

various activities at the Unversity dur-—
jing their stay there. Most of them have.

already either started out in their more
serious life work or have mapped out a
course. Their ‘‘spheres of influence’

will be wide and many are destined to
_ leave their |

, political and

  
 
 
 
   

marks in |
alhonsie—

  
 

 

 

5
‘
mie
, ’
Di
i
2
p
‘f
ee

ie
ae

¥ "
‘ied
« * %

ratte,

 

 
 

ee

First Student (to another, using an
electric heater with a short cireuit in
the wiring): ‘‘Look out or you’ll electrocute your brain using that thing.’’

Second Student: ‘‘Don’t worry, my
brain has been non-conducting for a
long, long time.’’

CHEMISTRY LAB.

a. oe es
Here lies Professor
His ‘‘chem’’ days are no more
For what he thought was H20,
Was H28 04.

An acid and compound

A Prof. had them classed.
A flame and a roar,
“Amd the classing was past.

A flame near an acid,
Prof’s. negligence crass.
A blast and erash,
And he lacked a class.
G, B. i.

 

The Commerce Society

(Continued from page 12).

the delightful little dance held afterwards at the
home of Professor and Mrs. Murray MacNeil,

Dalhousie Night at the Majestic, which the
Commerce Society attended in a body, fittingly
closed its social year, truly a most enjoyable one.

During the year a hockey team was organized
and was not defeated during the season.

The last meeting of the Society was held early
in April and the following officers were elected for
the coming college year:—Honorary President—Professor B. C. Hunt; President—Mr. M. D. Macaulay; Vice President—Miss Juanita O’Connor;
Secretary-Treasurer—Mr, A. W. Shaw; Members
of the Executive—Miss Marion Hoben and Mr, Clinton Muir.

This year the enrollment of students in the
Faculty of Commerce has doubled that of the preceding year. This rapid growth speaks well for the
future of the course; and it will be patel ng, hg
Mr. W. A. Black, whose magnificent gift made Dalhousie’s Commerce Course possible, to see it filling
such a real need of this ley and province, and so
a ee by Nova Scotians. That the people of
this province realize its value is manifested by the
interest taken in it by a number of business men.

the new course by offering a scholarship to be awarded to the student, who on the completion of the
second year of the course had attained the highest
standing in the classes of the first two years. Because
this award being offered too late to be com

the first int, te scholarship funds were devotto the purchase of some very fine and greatly
needed books for the library of the faculty. This
scholarship was won by Mr. Douglas

252

Campbell, who has proved himself to be a student

Great credit is due Professor Hunt for the rethe Commerce Course i

 

a neeEEeeeetiemmnmemmmenmeeeneenes

LAUGH AND THE WORL.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

A Soldier’s Terrors
They say the Germans have some guns,
That shoot a hundred miles,
But they do less execution than
A few alluring smiles.

The captive of your bow and sword?
Those eyes of dreamy blue

Those little pearls that are your teeth,
That hair of sunny hue,

Are worse to me than any shot
That came from mortal guns.

Those lips as red as any rose,
Are worse than any Huns.

The Germans kill your body, but
You kill the soul as well.
So, where we met please place a cross
To mark the spot I fell.
G, m. §.

THE LATEST.
The Glow worm dance! The Lantern
danee!
Girls’ dresses reaching to the knee!
Jazz orchestra and dancing profs. ! !
Ye gods! can these things be?
F.

Reid :—All the flat-footed guys had
a bid to the Delta Gamma:—Jim Graham, Baxter, Ellis and a few more.

Prof. Peck:—Yes, you’re right!
Also Prof. Dawson and myself.

N-c-l-n has heard that rubber is a
great protection against infection
to the operator so he has bought a
pair of rubber gloves for the dissecting
room. :

 

Jenkins lit a match ay bo
ger gf Nmap sng wll

 

i , ee en) Mt
{a VS Sees el ia wD

 

 

23

 

D LAUGHS WITH YOU

With the Murray Homestead having
that general air of humility and reveronce we see in a preacher’s house, the
Maculty has put another spoke in the
wheel of athletics in Dal. Even indoor
sports’ are suffering, it appears.

 

Latin has been considered a dead
language for so long that most students
declare it ought to stay dead. They
say that, if it’s ‘“‘dead” now, they’d
hate to meet it when in full possession of
all its health and vigor.

Prof. Stewart: “If you were told
that there were round squares in Cape
Breton would you accept it without investigation??? 
R.C. Robb: ‘Seeing that it is Cape
Breton, I would,

 

A TABLOID TRAGEDY.

Little girl

Pair of skates

Rotten ice

Pearly gates.

McGill Daily.

Senior—‘‘ Where have you been?”
F'reshman—‘To the Cemetery.’’

Senior— ‘Anybody dead?”
Freshman—‘‘ All of them.’’

ERRATA

Page 15, Arts and Seience Football
Team for Intercollegiate Champions

read Interfaculty Champions.

see if his.gas tank was empty.

;

tal

» he z ie . aS aot: a

 

‘

» fe =
. rh aie
* i

ae i ey hs oe aa
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Me ene Drs

neither party would give way till
finally our man returned and dragged
the horse off the road. The drivers generally walk beside the horses and lead
the bullocks. Our man drove with -bare
hands all that day with the temperature
aight degrees below zero and a bitter
wind that felt like razors sweeping over
the bleak ‘hills. And you should hear
the shouts and roars with which he beguiled the way, or encouraged the
steed, whichever way you like to think
of it. Sometimes I wish I were a machine for making gramophone records.
I did then. . Any one with a taste for
jazz music would be sure to appreciate ? |
the reeord I could have made. ee a aa ata eee a ge .

About two o’clock we stopped at an- | fe, novel and lasting. Are || |

other. So we stopped again and waited while repairs were being effected by
the roadside. These soon proved ineffectual, or at least very temporary, and
before we reached the first village we
were glad to get out and walk rather
than be spilled out. By this time I had
decided that the best ways to ride in a
Russian cart is to walk beside it.
Arrived at the village, we went into
the Chinese customs office to get warm.
The man at the head of the department
is a Korean doctor who speaks English
very well. When he _ heard the
new doctor was there, we had another
clinic on the spot. By this time the
wheel was tied up with another stick
and some more rope and away we went

A Dalhousian In Korea

(Continued from page 7). bi: a

 

stood at the door between and held a
little service. Then I began to find
out how Miss Whitelaw had been occupying her time in the “afternoon, for
patients began to arrive to see the doctor, and it came about that we had a
clinic then and there, though the unsuspecting doctor had very little with her
that was of much service. However, we
looked at all the sore eyes and ears and
gave some good advice, promising to
send down some needed remedies from
the hospital when we should arrive
there. After the last patient had gone,
we got out our blankets and made our

Some day, perhaps to-morrow, you will need money. |
If you have not saved what —
wil you Go0 = 84 GEOR ,
| cg sp og wit tao —Waterman’s Fountain Pens—
If you have been wise and || | | ==

have saved the future wil | | | T, C, ALLEN & CO.

7 i . 2 7
hl . . ’
7 .
" I a Lg
" ' h ca J
; y_Y me any ' ‘ : (' d
t A * * + 3
; a “ he a
: . Se ai =o
Thy aw fal *- hada pond
Le # 7 > Wan ces ;
; a " *
4, Birks
“J he yt J iy
. . 7
at % ’ “oe 2 ‘ - el
el OMe ey) =
£ , : ; *

 

4
.
ye

 

bed on the floor. Korean floors are
generally heated in the cold weather
but this one was cold, and as the temperature was considerably below zero, no
heat in the room, and the door separating us from outside only of paper, we
filled our hot water bottle, started two
Japanese heaters, and succeeded in being quite eomfortable. A Japanese
heater is a large flat tin with a cigarshaped stick of charcoal or some similar
material that one lights and puts inside, when it will burn for several hours
giving considerable heat.

Another patient. arriving before
breakfast next morning was duly prescribed for, after which we had _ breakfast, and started on our twenty three
mile drive to Yongjung. At the River
Tuman, the boundary between Kira and
Manchuria, China, we had to show our
passports and give our family histories

again. A Russian eart, being the only
kind of conveyance in this part of the
country that can boast of springs, is
really quite a luxurious carriage, a real
aristocrat of travel. The steed is an
animal known as a ‘‘big’’ horse in contradiction to a Manchurian pony, though
the biggest I have seen would not be so
considered at home. The carts are two
wheeled affairs that are mounted by
climbing up the wheel, and then tumbling into the mass of heaters and blankets, with what grace and dignity one
ean.

But you must not imagine that Russian carts monopolize the road. Let
me assure you there is a succession of
carts, Russian, Chinese, Korean, and
Pekin, not to mention pack ponies, and
ordinary pedestrians; Chinese soldiers,
and sometimes Japanese soldiers on
horseback or on foot. These last nam
other village for something to eat.
Here we dined sumptuously off the remains of our two previous meals and
some hot water which was all we ventured to indulge in provided by the
house. This was at a Chinese inn where
the door stood invitingly open all the
time, admitting the fresh air, while the
open fire where the cooking was being
done added savory (?) smells and plenty of smoke to the atmosphere. In the
inner room were Koreans, Chinese, and
Japanese, each enjoying himself. after
his own fashion and literally filling the”
air with the sounds of revelry and feasting. We went into a still more private
apartment where it was so dark and
smoky that at first we could see nothing.
When our eyes became accumtomed to
the dim light, we saw the window was of
paper and the floor of mud, which was
freely used as a spitoon except at one
side where there was a raised platform

/ $ - ory oa 3 4
att aN, os, ee
‘he easiest, quickes
aT : ae > ‘2 a Re Flere ul
ALIS. ony «

s . o 7
. n § ¥ ' 1
J . > \
’ . q Pe ak | é
o ir ea i'l se a ae . | , i 4
: - 4 =e al FE 1 74" r 4 ‘ # ay
. see tase LU ee a + + : +7 ' me
. : < gh i z * bist) Ade ter ‘ We a ya A * 4 £
: , > . € 4 E / > + yy is i d a Te b2
2% 1 ,
y ve l= > 7
es
La a, ‘

 

a Be .. 2
{ ate Me A
‘ey Sa
, » *
"4
a o
ai at

ed gentleman frequently oust a quiet

looking farmer from his own cart that
they may ride while the rightful owner
trudges alongside. .And one would
searcely go far without meeting a herd
of lean lank black pigs with long hair

to the police once more, and finally having satisfied that official, were allowed
to proceed. Crossing the river on the
ice, we made ourselves as comfortable
as possible with the blankets and heaters around us in the cart, and started,

dy | taf @
. ?

covered with straw matting. Here we
sat down on the floor as close to the
smoky handful of fire in a tin pail as sy ee ol

possible, and enjoyed our dinner, greatly a | ae amet seals 5

to the admiration of several Chinamen, 4 i Te - ~ eee ea pingiiow pholle <. Speee ae
who apparently have no such delightful i : ef | Musical goods from a Plano te a

. f iv’ 4
= }
. 4 a ss
\ 1 :
A ii ‘
-. | . lay
an hee) # ae ¢ : 5
aa ead a4 ; “ “ . : ‘
3 4 ‘Wy Gis ee Me
; lait , wa P i ,
vg ‘ :
adil oe Bie
i } ’ + \ i
gg sia dl f i +f
' ry i Pre
r wh 4
c .

4 ea.)
aan a
" py. ty

.
- . a
— ee es al, : a - ;
a a ee - .
a eee ye = hs Ce , hae = ‘
- a. - ee i ; —s- - “. ~ aes
a rk + , i
i = = ~ : eS est os ; 2 =

e
Thay

  

Miss Whitelaw and I in one cart, and
the Korean boy with the luggage in the
other. Did I say started? Yes, we
started all right, but we soon stopped,
heaven only knows what for. We started again, and again we stopped, for the
same reason. Off again, but we had not
gone far when we had to stop at a narrow place in the road to wait for a team
coming in the opposite direction to pass
us before we entered a narrow part of
the road with a high cliff on the one
side and the frozen Tuman far below
on the other, Then we entered this
part of the road ourselves, but soon
had to back out again and wait for
more teams to come up and pass. Finally, however, we left this place behind
and turned away down the river. Then
it was discovered that the tyre and rim
of one wheel that had been broken
through and patched with a bit of spoke
atid a piece of rope before we started
the first time, had evidently had a few
-words and

ly within speaking distance of one an
parted and were now, scarce- 
standing up like porcupine quills. A
Chinese cart is a large four-wheeled one
drawn by four Manchurian ponies us-:
ually, though a donkey or a cow may be
substituted at any time. One drives
close to the cart and the other three
abreast in front of the first. Unruly
creatures they are too, with very uncertain tempers. They have long
wooly hair reminding one of a cross between a horse and a sheep. Pekin carts
have great high canvas covers and are
also drawn by horses. No one ever gets
off the road till the very last minute and
then there is always the delightful uncertainty as to which side it will be
when he docs move over, and usually a
collision is avoided by a very narrow
margin or frequently not avoided at
all. The Korean carts are so heavy
they never get damaged so the drivers
do not worry much about keeping out
of collisions. Once or twice when our
driver was off on an excursion of his

own, leaving the horse to go as”
pleased, we met a Korean cart an

custom with regard to letting people eat
unobserved as have the Koreans.

It was market day in this town and
the streets were so full of traffic, especially in front of the inn, that we had a
hard time getting turned around and
through the street among the carts and
bullocks tied everywhere. The driver
had to go ahead shouting as he went to
get a passage wide enough for us.
Finally we got free of the town, when we
could make better progress, and just as
it was getting dark, arrived at Yongjung where we got such a welcome as
was worth coming a long way to receive.

Six months ago in Canada a friend
gaid to me, ‘What do you want to go
to the east for anyway? freak.
of yours is just another form of hyster
  
  

ia”, Hysteria, perhaps! And if so,
I am showing no signs of r
but now re more

   
 

 
 

or, in this

— o-~ “ - Fi
Ss : Pay Pee a ele
>) f = i As y

: Li, ey

an hes
rs

+; ee ca on = PRESy : =

 
