 

' ——FounpED }F869-—

IssueD WerEKLY. ONE DoLiAR Pers YEAR.

- J. R. NICHOLSON, B, A.

Business Manager i 77 Queen Street.
Editos + - + » 2 += C, F, BOWES, B. A.

AU subscriptions and advertising accounts payable
to the Business Manager.

 

Asseeiate Editorg
Miss Enecean Busnes Mise Mapa. Morrison
D. C, CoLquaouN R. F. CaALLan
M. C, Chay C, R, Baxter
G. C. MacLgop R. M. RicHarpson
J, G. Feeo
Sports Editor --- =- - J. A, Dunop
Special Reporters
Miss M. O, Mappen; Miss Roperta M. Forpes
L. A. Monro; W. G, Pompe

 

Dalhousie has at last adopted the
eustom long followed by the leading
universities of Great Britain and later
by those of the United States in offering

prizes for poetry and prose compositions by members of the student body.
This has been made possible through
the munifieent gifts of Mr.W. H. Dennis,
The announcement of the conditions of
the competition will be found on another
page of this issue.

At the same time prizes have been
offered by the Sydney Post for the best
articles on subjects dealing with Cape
Breton of which announcement is also
made in this number. |

& 
In connection with our own literary
competition we wish to announce that a

recip oung ladies are
now only one point below the 25 entitling them to the prize.
The ‘‘Gazette’’ takes this opportunity of eon seating Me: Satire on barr

* *¢ *# *@

      
 

  

SS

 

 

The Dalhousie Gazette

FOUNDED 1869

 

HALIFAX, N. 8., FEBRUARY 1, 1922.

EXCHANGES

Red and White—The December number of this magazine contains many
articles of merit, among which is one
entitled ‘‘Dante is Ours’’. This article
is evidently the result of a careful study
of the writings of that famous poet, and
more especially of his ‘*Divina Commedia’’. ‘*The Poet’’, a eontribution
from the pen of Prof. R. B. Drummer,
should be read along with that on
Dante. Some fine verse productions,
good jokes and short stories make this
a very creditable college journal.

The Merchistonian—An Edinburgh
sehool magazine, edited by members of
Merchistonian Castle School. Much
space is allotted to those in charge of
the War Memorial. Sketches of the proposed Hall are shown. The article, ‘‘The
Making of a Medieval Man’’, is interesting. Some verse and a few jokes would
considerably improve this school issue.

The Western U. Gazette—‘‘ Physical
Bdueation in the University’’ is the title
of a well written article to be found in
the issue of Jan. 11th. The poem,
‘‘Hivolution’’, should prove of interest
to students of Geology in the various
universities.

The Sheaf—‘Sim Pull’s’’ letter to
the editor is cleverly humorous, and at
the same time draws attention to a mistake which many of our papers make,
and which seems so difficult for them
to avoid, namely, the use of hackneyed
words and phrases in writing up college
activities. We heartily agree with the
sentiments expressed in your editorial
re annual meetings of the Students’
Council. The ‘‘first-of-the-term’’ mass
meeting is a splendid idea.

The Manitoban—The January number of this paper contains an editorial
well worth r a ie pameeten as
ing the Gospel: ork’’, article
Destrendty well written and is published at an sepropriete time. ‘Sore
‘AB’and Roast Em”’ is a clever cartoon.
The ‘‘Ode to a Geometric Progression”’
will ¢ 1 to those exposed to Math.I.
Al er your paper is the best yet
from your staff.

Acatlia Athenaewm—The Jan.-Feb.
Athenaeum contains the usual number
of short stories, some of which are very

We like your idea of inserting
i ific articles in your
butions

are

 

 

— ghoose “The Wolf Howl’’ as the su
 

 

ARTS AND SCIENCE ’23

After a nice fall of snow on Wednesday last, all augured well for Thursday
night’s sleigh drive of Class ’23. But
on Thursday heavy snow was falling,
which later turned to rain and thus a
good time seemed spoilt. However, undaunted, forty class—spirited members
of ’23 gathered at the Forrest Building
and were delighted to find that the committee had arranged for a Theatre
Party.

So with Mrs. M. MacNeill and Mrs.
H. F. Munro as chaperones the party
set out for the Orpheus, where the production ‘‘ Little Lord Fauntleroy’? was
greatly enjoyed by alll.

After the theatre, the party were the
guests of Miss Marion Clark, Oxford
St., who had very kindly thrown her
home open for the occasion. Here,
games were played, and a sumptuous
bean supper was served by Mrs. Clark.

Altogether the affair was most suecessful, and everyone agreed that the
Theatre Party was a fitting substitute
for the Sleigh drive. However, the
drive will be held in the very near
future.

A committee of the class is at present
compiling a Graduation Book, which is
to contain a biography of each member
of ’23. This is something new, in its
line, at Dal, and the committee are earnestly striving to make it a wer

. M.

PHYSIOLOGY

The following is an alleged answer
made by a certain Medical Student in
an examination on ‘‘The Spine’’:

‘‘The Spine is a bunch of bones that
runs up my back and keeps my ribs
together, The head sits on one end and
I sit on the other.”’

Acknowledgments

The Gazette wishes to acknowledge
recaipt of subseriptions from the following: Miss Merle Colpitt, Drs. Chas.
G. Bain, J. Stanley Bagnall, Mr. W.
Marshall Rogers.

J. R. NICHOLSON,

Business Manager.

 

perior. The nh in ‘The Woods in
ee ney eee

met ine ¢ ww
Reoidedly De Or

decidedly faulty.

 
 

 

 

  
  
 

UNIVERSITY HALL

Every one, with an option on a pair
of skates, spent Saturday afternoon, the
14th, on Chocolate Lake. The skating
that Friday and Saturday on the lake
was certainly a revelation and our shellwe friends at the ‘‘Arena’’ did not need
much of a staff to handle their crowd.

Mr. Jas Graham, manager of the
Varsity basket ball team, is a busy man
these days.

The House Committee have held
several meetings lately—regarding ‘‘the
high cost of living question’’ and its relation to the residents of the ‘‘ Hall’’.

At a mass meeting early in the week,
Messrs. Bruce and Graham were added
to the Billiard Committee.

The sick people are all around again,
W._A. Richardson being the last to recover.

The defeat. of the college team by
Boston ‘‘Tech’’ came as a mild shock
to most of us. We did think the score
would be different that night. Our sorrow was, no doubt, a matter of rejoicing to the so-called friends of the team
—inside and outside the college circle.
Harvard is a different question, for they
have everything to build up a winning
team, which we at the present time have
not. We suppose it will be another lifetime before another ‘‘Dal’’ team invades the States—and we sincerely hope
that the manager of the hockey team,
of that day, will not have the difficulties
in his way the present manager had.
Mr. McDonald has our heartiest congratulations for carrying the trip thru
at all. |

Eddie Bayer has returned and is receiving the glad hand. His left arm is
still in @ sling, but otherwise he shows
no sign of the accident. i

Another Billiard Tournament }s under way. Mr. Alex. Guthro was the winner of the pre-Xmas one, and when the
handicaps are Pen will be given
the ortunity to repeat.

Pine Hill has challenged us to a
hockey game. The ar ments were
referred to a pon gig but the committee is very quiet.

Once again we journeyed to the rink
and had our share of the $120. The
bands were reversed > = middle ; =.

le ran together and the ice was the
anal A-1 (excellent) quality of the
Arena management—so of course we all
enj ourselves. The money spent
by ‘Le stating Club each year would

run an open air rink for a le of

months, but then we would not be blessed
with the excellent service and ‘‘take it

  

jetta of

GLEANINGS FROM

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

way, and his ‘‘style’’ is a vast improvement over ‘‘Archie’s’’, Archie says
‘‘style’’ does not win hockey games, and
we guess he is right. This week’s news
is not meant to be funny!

We were a little previous in our
conclusions regarding Archie’s illness.
His latest seizure necessitated his removal to the hospital. All the boys are
very sorry for his misfortune, and hope
he will soon be back again.

The usual speculation over ‘‘who
will be called’’ to the ‘‘Delta Gamma’’
dance is on the rounds. We hope all the
‘‘faithful’’ will receive their invitation
in due course and that the dance will be
its usual successful social affair. Bruce
is already patting himself on the back.

Many attended the Dal-Wanderers
game. The boys went in a body, due
to the successful negotiating of
‘‘Charlie’’ Baxter with the Arena management. The protest ‘‘bug’’ that ran
rampant in intercollegiate sport last fall
is now going to have some fun in the
City League. A goodly number of the
Merchant Marine are reposing in state
on the waters of the ‘‘Arm’’ in front of
the ‘‘Birchdale’’. Whether it is the first
idea of economizing of the new government is not quite plain. Any way, we
think Captain Laing should get a slide
of them for using in his illustrated lecture on ‘‘Canadian Shipping’’. Those
six will not run on any rocks this winter.

Prof. Copp and M. H. Mahon were
visitors during the week.

The second billiard tournament is
well under way and nearly every game
sees the dope upset. Messrs. Graham
and Guthro, the two performers in
the previous tournament, went down to
defeat in the first round. ‘‘Jim’’ went
to the rink on the 25th to negotiate a
bid to the D. G. Dance. Notable victories in the first round of the tournament were those of Henry Dewolfe,
Wilson, R. McG. Dawson and James L.
Wickwire. The victory of Wickwire

:

| N to sell to

MEX, AND WOMEN, wh
waterproof Ging prons for
use in the kitchen. Can easily earn
$14 daily and more. Rapid seller

and ready demand. .
Send 75 cents for sample apron and
full i . Money refunded —
if sample returned.

BRITISH Rt

. i ‘ -_ ee
4
: = 5 & 4 ’
‘ = . 2 ee j ‘a 4 al

 

 

 

     

over Prof.. Peck was especially enter
taining. ‘‘Pocketing the white’’ was
the favorite shot. We pick Baxter to
win the tournament and R. MeG. Dawson for the runner up.

Monte Haslam’s friends are overjoyed to have him back again, and every
one hopes he will soon discard the cane.

Fogo was a visitor on the evening of
the 25th, and rumor has it some of
Forbes’ missing collars have wandered
back. Forbes is trying to introduce the
one button coat style again. It gives
him a chance to show that ‘‘knitted’’
sweater. .

A big crowd turned out for the DalCrescent game. ‘‘Gee’’ lost the running for (Rudolf’s) crown and played
a very good game. The victory pleased
us as much as the one over the ‘‘Wanderers’’, but we were minus the writeup the next day.

Plans are afoot for another ‘‘ Birchdale’’ dance—the date is too far in the
future to guess. THE ‘‘SCRIBH’’.

ART EXHIBITION AT THE
MAJESTIC THEATRE

During the week of February 2-8
Halifax art lovers will have an opportunity to see some of the best pictures
now in the Art Exhibition at Ottawa together with the best of those in private
collections throughout this city.

In an attempt to revive interest in the
subject of the Arts these pictures will
be on exhibition at the Majestic Theatre
for a full week, commencing today.
Talks on the subject will be given in all
the local schools and in addition Haligonians will have an opportunity to
hear the well-known poet, Mr. Robert
Norwood lecture at the Theatre, the
particular date for his talk being Wednesday, February 8th. Mr. Ifan Williams, the well-known violinist at the
Halifax Conservatory of Music will have
his own orchestra at the Majestic to
render musical selections, and this in
itself should be sufficient to warrant a
large attendance. Mr. Williams is the
only associate of the Royal Academy of
Music in the Dominion, and any orchestra organized and directed by him
may be depended upon to fulfill all expectations.

Three prizes in the form of pictures
by local artists for the best article
on ‘‘What I Consider’ the

Best
Picture in the Exhibition and Why,”
ogg offered by the iets

   

ee “ip
Le een
é = aan ¥ = t
a Rat bd aes

*

f
* cv\
‘
Wye Wee |

e. 7 - « : i ge

, = 2 , ‘a ee 3. i’ D y wa a, ot
ue he Ta ae Rae ae

£4 = a Z +7 “fiow

¢ a8

is eet, las 2

AAD Mt ad it Sa 2
c nee
aa ees

ce ae

) ie :
ay 5 =
2 = ’ fie
J i 4 at
ie GS sae!
ie 75 5
4

Ey =

 

  

PHARMACY “DOPE”

Great excitement prevailed in the
camp of the Pharmacists when it was
learned that their Hockey team was to
meet the Law ‘“‘ New Timers’’ on the eve
of the 21st, at 5 p. m. -Wherewith, at
the appointed hour, we all wandered to
the South End Rink to view the battle,
regardless of such trifles as snow blizzards, wet feet and cold suppers. And
be it known unto the world, we were amply repaid for our efforts, as the game
was more exciting than a big league.

Referee Chittick called the warriors
to combat at 5.15 and it was indeed a
noble sight to see these great and good
men take the ice.

The game opened at a furious rate,
but it was soon manifest that the
‘**Pharms’’ had the edge on their opponents and after five minutes of play, Collins drove the rubber past Fogo for the
first score, amidst wild cheering from
the four-thou.—Pardon—dozen—spectators. Three more goals were shoved in in
quick succession by Seldon, Ormond and
Beaton. From then till the final gong,
the play was as fast as the opening of
a six day bicycle race. Law put forth
a desperate effort in the final period and
bombarded Lorne Rice from all angles.
In the last five minutes of play a Law
man dashed thru the Pharm defence and
slapped a roller into the nets for a count.

The game ended without further
scoring and when the auditors had
ceased summing up the score, it was
found that Pharmacy had won 4 to 1.
The Pharms felt the absence of ‘‘Kewpie’’ Melanson, the tiny whirlwind from
Moncton who is writing the board exams
inN.B |

On glancing over the Inter-Faculty
Hockey Schedule, we notice that Pharmacy is not represented. Now, we are
at a loss to comprehend, whether it is
that the ‘‘head guys’? want us to combine with the ‘‘Dentals’’ or whether they

YOUR DRUGGISTS

MacLEOD, BALCOM

 

&- BS
‘ = af = J = xX * .
= = a

‘< Ladies’ and. Gente’ Maniouring

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

think that our names are on Mr. Covey’s
new list of ‘‘Professionals’’ and it’s no
use giving us a chance anyway. gj
the fatal 26th is drawing ng of yn
gards the former, it was decided at a
recent class meeting, to enter an ‘all
Pharmacy’’ team in the Inter--Faculty
League as there are more than enough
stalwart athletes in the class to ably
represent the ‘‘Pill Mixers’ Union’’.
Tommy Horsler, our star hockiest
arrived safe and intact from Boston and
vicinity and is getting the glad hand on
all sides, for his splendid showing
against Boston Tech, and Harvard.

 

MEDICAL NOTES

The Meds have gathered an a regation of hockey experts and are going
to be a factor in the Interfaculty
League if Covey doesn’t keep up his
Suspension tactics. Regular ‘practices
on Tuesday and Thursday is their program if the ice man permits, The defence is as last year, to start with Viz.
Corbett, Zinck and D. Oochrane.’ The
forwards are too numerous to mention
but Glenister, Keating, Kinley, MacPherson, MacMillan, Wilson, Cummings
Cameron and Kelly. MacLeave participated in their first game.

Poirier, the manager, is a hard
worker, except when on ‘‘sick leave’’.
He has arranged for several outside
games, and expects to take the visitors
ito camp. Of course it goes without
saying that he hopes to have his colts
in good condition before they clash with
the Legal Embryos.

We regret losing ‘‘ Bricky‘‘ Dunn and
Fabie Bates before they ai play one
game with us, but there our motto must
be lived up to: ‘‘When a man can make
the ‘‘D’’ team we don’t want him’, We
have several other stars and hope to see
them out to our next practices.

About one and one-half years ago it
was reported that the medical faculty

 

Bob Johnson’s
BARBER SHOP

ENJOY A SHOWER
BATH OR TUB
SHOE SHINE PARLOR
LADIES’ SHAMPOO PARLOR
in connection. |

    

 

 

       

        
 

 

 

was endowed with a million dollars.
As no tangible signs are in evidence
many Meds are asking if it was the proverbia] ‘*Million Dollar Mystery’’?
Was it with the desire to catch some
one down in attendance and prevent
them from writing exams, another form
of plucking, that the request was sent
from the President’s office for all Medical ian be present and to make
certain of roll eall the last tw
devs todos Teen last two college

 

 

ENGINEERING NOTES

Mr. J. F. Lumsden, of the N

Scotia Power Commission, ddltvensa
very interesting lecture on Friday, the
13th, before the Kngineering Society,
Subject, ‘The Margaret Bay Power Development’’, The lecture was illustrated
by lantern slides showing the stages in
the construction of the plant.
_ The basket ball team had a practice
in the ‘‘Tech’’ gymn, on Saturday, the
14th. Few attended—due to the attraction of Chocolate Lake.

Miss Hazel White, a former member of the society, Spent a week in the
city the middle of the month. Miss
com 1s now . member of the teaching
profession, and was on h : )
Seat tade her way to St.

The Engineering basket ball. team
received a severe handling by a Pine
Hill team on Thursday, Jan. 19th. The
= was are = Pine Hill, and the
smal gym. and the long walk p .
plains the result. 7 Behind

Mr. R. F. Dunmitt, chief chemist at
Imperoyal, will lecture before the
society on the third of February. Subject, ‘The Refining of Oils’’, This lecture will probably be. held in the drafting room. .

Capt. Laing.was very witty and his
references to the navy during the war
brought forth much applause. Prof. B.
C. Hunt, of the Commerce Department,

made an excellent chairman.

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
128 YOUNG STREET

EES Tt i KA  sc!-!--_"#!

HATS ——— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

 

 

HENRY S. COLWELL ........scsseseesceeees President
GARNET J. COLWELL, .........s:0000 Vice-President
RAY J. COLWELL ......c.sessecssesenesn eens -Director —

| CYRIL H. COLWELL .........+++.,Seeretary-Treasurer
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

ONLY TWO MORE DAYS TO
GET YOUR TICKETS FOR THE

| JUNIOR-SENIOR DANCE

This Will Be The FIRST and BEST
Of The Post - Christmas Season

 

 

 

———————_ $I
—_

 

THE NEW GYMNASIUM stuv.ey

FRIDAY EVEN., FEBRUARY 3rd.

 

 

Good Music! - Don’t Miss tt!

 

 

TICKETS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM

—

gi | M. M. MacOdrum, W. M. Jones, C. P. Bethune, C.C. ives,
7 H. R. Robertson and D. S. Thompson. |

— ————

 f HAVE YOU ASKED YOUR FRIEND

 

    

 

 

 
  

| es,
ta
> ‘+
s.
4

 

 

| Fate and The Man|

(Concluded)
Tir

As he rushed out a volume of smoke
and flame belched behind him. Across
the dark thoroughfare he ran blindly,
tripped over some obstruction in his
path and fell heavily. Half stunned by
the violence of the fall, he rose trembling and staggered to the opposite side
of the road. Then he turned to survey
the red ruin he had wrought. Like one
transfixed he stood watching the rolling
masses of smoke and the fiery caverns
within the doomed building.

Slowly he became aware of a gathering crowd, and heard like one in a
dream the continuous shouts of Fire!
Fire !' Soon he was recognized and
surrounded by an eager, questioning
mob, whose confusion was so great that
he could not make out what was said
to him. The owners of the adjoining
properties were already pouring out
from their houses, half dazed with fright
exerting themselves to the utmost to
save the most valuable of their cherished belongings before the devouring
element reached their unprotected
homes.

Sinking down on the bare pavement
the incendiary buried his head in his
hands, outwardly showing an appropriate amount of alarm and desolation,
whilst telling over in his mind the sum
his insurance company would have to
pay out to settle his loss.

Suddenly he detected a swift change
in the spirit of the crowd. He looked
up and strove dully to understand its
meaning. “The countenances turned
towards him showed no menace, but
only an expression of pitying horror.

In a frenzy of meaningless fear he
struggled to his feet and looked across
at the burning building, .

A deep hush seemed to fall on the
multitude. In the midst of them all he
stood motionless, pale as death, bereft,
as it were, of the power of speech or
movement. His staring eyes were fixed
on a bedroom window of the second
floor.

There outlined against the terrible
glare within, the figure of his son, Joswe Me revealed.

aithfully the boy had performed
his mission; but finding his aunt’s house
closed, he had forgone the theatre and
ridden back home, and after securing his
bicycle in the. shed had let himself in
by the back door, a key to which he always kept about him. Goi to his
own room by the way of the back stairs
he had not come upon the scene of his
father’s operations, neither was he fated to meet him, for he had gone on his
atigue soon paved the
way to sleep, and so there was no evidence of his presence when the father

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

And this was his awakening.

He was leaning over the window sill
with waving arms and shrieks for help
pealing from his lips. ‘

Across the street he caught sight of
his father, who was too numbed with
horror to move a foot.

‘*Dad! Dad!’’ he eried, his voice rising clear above the roar of the fire and
the crash of falling beams, ‘‘Save me!
Save me!’’,

The appeal seemed to break the spell
that bound the old man to the spot. He
broke headlong from the clutching hands
that tried to hold him back and plunged
into the dense cloud that issued from
the now opened doorway.

The heat inside began to scorch his
flesh and the stifling fumes to choke him.
From room to room he fought his way
through bellowing tongues of flame and
thick wreaths of oily vapour to the foot
of the stairs which led to the second
floor. He leaned upon the first blackened step, it crumbled, and a yawning
chasm of flame and smoke rendered the
way to the upper rooms impassable.
The back stairs had already given way,
and hope died within the incendiary’s
breast.

Burnt, bruised and half stifled, he
battled back to the entrance, and as he
reached the threshold he remembered
the ladder in the back yard. Surely it
would be long enough. To dart round
the burning pile, drag it from the shed
and rear it agaist the outer wall was
the work of a minute.

{It began to slant sideways when he
was half way up; but so swiftly did he
mount that he reached the open window
and clutched the sill before it fell away
from under his feet and crashed into
the yard below. Painfully he drew himself up by sheer strength and scrambled
into the room.

‘‘Joseph! Joseph!’ he called; but
no answering voice greeted his ear,
From place to place he rushed with the
desperation of despair, growing weaker
and weaker as the moments sped by.

At last he found his son ,prostrate

on the floor. Dizzily he raised the unconscious boy up and hastened to the
nearest window, for the floor was burning under his feet. Twice he stumbled
and fell, and as often struggled up again
sight and sense alike beginning to fail
at the crucial moment.
_ Suddenly the sound of loud cheering
reached his ear. He looked up, his filmy
eyes caught sight of the well-known
brass helmet and a pair of outstretched,
rescuing arms. The next moment his
precious burden was snatched fro mhim,
and the fireman descended the ladder
with the still living form of the boy over
his shoulder. But the wild cheers of the
éxcited crowd were not destined to
reach the ears of the dying man above.
Flooring and roof gave away, he vanished from sight, and was buried in the
fiery ruins.

a ae ee

SSS Sst

In the neighbouring church yard a
tombstone was erected to his memory.
But perhaps the smouldering pile of
debris, from which his charred remains
were recovered next morning, were a
fitter memorial to the manner of his
death, than the most imposing mausoleum Trinidad could afford. F.A.C.

Neilsen & Mills

LIMITED
26 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

SPECIAL—Evening Dresses to Measure in
two days, including all materials,
$18.90 to $33.50.

LADIES’ TAILORING DEPT.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed.
—— OUR LEADERS —
Broadcloth, Velour or Pure Indigo Blue Serge
ERECT Te Tee Tre TTT Try TT Terre er ere $49.50
Velour, Plaidback, Chinchilla Overcoats........... $37.50
Many others from $34.90 up.

Open Friday and Saturday Evenings

 

  

NA —-DRU -CO.

Line of Toilet Articles
Perfumes and Family
Remedies

  
 
 
   
 
    
   
   
    
  
 
    
    
    

Every man’s Education should
contribute to his welfare, comfort and enjoyment, and hence
NO MAN’S EDUCATION is
complete without a practical
knowledge of the Nadruco Line
as above.

National Perfumes are exquisite, novel and lasting. Are
made from the most rare and
pure ingredients, by men of
many years’ experience. They
are unexcelled by any other
makes, whether Domestic or
Imported.

National Toilet Articles are
Effective, Delightful and Taste
fully Dressed. |
Nadruco Family Remedies are
manufactured by expert chem
ists from formulae that have
been tested for years and will
give you satisfaction or your
money refunded.

All articles ired in these
lines are, as as possible,
BOUGHT IN CANADA,

      
 

The goods are MADE IN
CANADA, and are a Credit to
Canada.

   

NATIONAL DRUG &
Limited |
—HALIFAX BRANCH— ,

    
   

 
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Prizes Offered for Prose and Poetry

 

MR. DENNIS’ LETTER

Dr. Archibald MacMechan,
Professor of English Literature,
Dalhousie University, Halifax.
Dear Dr. MacMechan:

The writer has thought for some time that he
would like to provide one or two annual prizes in
Dalhousie University, open to the undergradutes
in all the faculties and of a character that would

arouse wide interest and perhaps develop a new —

field. For that punpose my inclination is to
favor the Department of English Literature because I consider iit the most important in the
university. lt therefore appears to me that the
writing of poetry and essays should be more encouraged, and to that end I would like to offer
an annual sum of $600.00—o be divided equally
in one or more prizes, as you may determine, for
poems and essays, the names of the winners to
be published each year with the Convocation announcemenits. My suggestion is that the one
shall be known as “The Joseph Howe English
Prize Poem,” and the other “The James De Mille
English Prize Essay.” I would also suggest that
the poem may be of any kind and of any length
and that any competiltor may submit more than
one. I would suggest that the prize essay may
be of any length between 4000 and 6000 words
and on any literary, historical or philosophical
topic. The writer would be pleased if a short
story (fiction) could be included for this prize.
I desire that a high standard musi, be reached
before a prize shall be awarded in either class,
and that in any year when a prize is not awarded
the equivalent sum shall be used for the purchase of books for the University Library, under tthe direction of ithe President and the head
of the Department of English Literature.

It will be following custom, I believe, that
the poem and essays or stories which win prizes
shall become the exclusive property of the Uniiversity. That being so, I desire to make it a
condition that such poems and essays or stories
shall be offered first for publication, firee
charge, to the Editor of the Dalhousie Review.

It is my intention at a later date to establish a permanent endowment for this fund.

I trust that this proposal will prove acceptable to the Senate and Board of Governors and
that the prizes will be availed of during the

ent College year.
yy desl be interested to see the rules governing these prizes, if accepted, when they are

drawn up.
Yours faithfully,
WwW. H. DENNIS.

 

PROVISIONAL RULES
_ JOSEPH HOWE ENGLISH PRIZE POEM.

   

3. The competition is open to all registered
students of Dalhousie University in good standing in the current academic year in which the
award iis made,

4, Manuscripts must be typewritten upon
one side only. They must not be signed by the
candidate but a pseudonym iis bo be typed at the
end of the manuscript. They are to be accompanied by a sealed envelope bearing a typewritten address:

“The Secretary,”
Joseph Howe Engliish Prize Poem Committee,
. Dalhousie University.

The envelope shall contain the candidate’s
name and pseudonym and the name of the poem,
or poems.

5. The manuscripts must be in the hands
of the secretary of the Committee not later than
April 10th, 1922.

6. The successful poems shall become the
property of the University and shall be available for publication im the Dalhousie Review,
without remuneration.

7. The prizes will only be awarded if the
poems submitted attain to a high standard of
merit. piel “
JAMES DEMILLE ENGLISH PRIZE ESSAY.

1. There will be offered for competition
among students of Dalhousie University two
prizes for Prose composition, a first prize of
$200.00, and a second prize of $100.00.

2. Candidates may submit more than one
manuscript. The term “essay” is bo be liberally
construed to include short stories and descriptive
sketches as well as essays proper upon any liter
 

Essays proper should be about the length of an
ordinary review amticle, i. ¢, of between” 4,000
and 6,000 words; but originality of thought,
freshness of treatment, style, etc., will be chiefly
considered by the Jury of Award.

3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Same as under J. Howe
English Prize Poem with the words “James
DeMille English Prize Bssay” im place of the
words “Joseph Howe English Prize Poem.”

THE SYDNEY POST OFFERS ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS IN PRIZES

There is much that is interesting in
the history of Cape Breton and Hastern

Nova Scotia.
Portugese and Spaniards, French

and British fished in their waters, explored their oe and later settled
about their harbors. |

Still later, France made Cape Breton
a sentinel in the gateway of the St. Lawrence, and thus kept control of the vast
territories between its possessions in
Canada and its settlements on the Miss
 

   

Later under British rule, Acadians
came to various places in the Island;
Loyalists settled here; Highland Scots
and Irish found here fairer opportunities than in the land they had left; the
‘bourgeois’? from Jersey set up their
fishing establishments; hardy pioneers
of civilization, endured hardships, performed great feats, had thrilling adventure during those long years of achievement.

The main story has been written,
among others, by Brown, Bourinot, McDonald and McLennan, but there are
countless tales of thrilling interest which
have not been preserved, and these ought
to be kept in remembrance.

The Sydney Post, to encourage the
recording of these fine deeds, for the
best contributions on the history of a
parish, a district, or some striking incident in connection therewith, the life
of some striking personality—not Giant
McAskill—some tale of adventure, or
other ‘matter dealing with the past history of the Island of Cape Breton and
The Counties of Guysboro: and Antigonish, offers the following prizes: first
prize, $50.00; second prize, $30.00; third
prize, $20.00; all contributions must be
received by May Ist.

Originality and interest of the subject chosen, clearness and style will be
the most important factors in determining the awards.

The Post reserves the right to pub
. lish the prize winning essays.

No prize will be awarded unless, in
the opinion of the Judges, the essays
which are submitted possess sufficie
merit, 7

WAR BOOKS FOR THE LIBRARY

Mr. Pearson’s good s and
example regarding books on the Great
War for the Library have borne fruit
already. a fi

Toles Russell writes: ‘“‘I have a
number of war books not. mentioned in
Mr. Pearson’s list in ‘‘The Alumni

News’’, and which I am certain I shall
never wish to read again. Would they
be accepted as an addition to the
ar eiey Sica and they
| were.
Major Crowe writes: ‘‘I am making

up a box of war books and some others
big a I hope to have sent you within
a few |

       

   
 
  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

DALHOUSIE LOSES TO DARTMOUTH, 4—3

Fabie Bates played without his cap on Friday, with the result that Dalhousie dropped her
first game in the City Hockey League to Dartmouth, by a score of 4 to 3. It was indeed a
heart-breaking game to lose, easily the fastest
in the league so far, and in it the Tiger team as
a whole showed wp better than ever before this
winter. The ice was nearly perfect, and nearly
four thousand frenzied fans turned out to see
the two speediest team im the league in action.

Dal started slow in the opening spasm, while
the ttrans-harborites, led by George Dunn, last
year with Dalhousie, made every effort to pile
up a commanding lead. They bombarded the old
Duke from every angle, and at last Dunia slipped
one behind his former teammate. Before the
end of 'the period Beasley made it 2 for the Blue
and White. The Tigers gave Guinion in the Dart
‘mouth nets a chance to make a few stops in this

period, but did not break into the scoring column.
In the ee Pe ae cone a0 strong, and
Art Lilly gave the Dal followers a chance to cut
loose when he waded through, and scored the

the final stanza, and, for 15 minutes had the edge
i ts. Fabie Bates, who was being
watched closer than a convicted cleptomaniac,
managed to elude his guards long enough to get
away a wicked shot from outside the defence which
the former Truronian in the Dart nets
never saw. “Bricky” Dunn had met with a disi i , more distressing to his pride

but the Tigers stuck and a minute or so later
Horsler skated up the side, passed to Fabie, who
bulged the twine for the nearest goa] of the

The game was exceedingly clean, only one
from each side being given an enforced rest.
the ae all of

Duke and Bricky were particularly prominent.
Allen Dunlop showed up only for the game being
apparently engaged elsewhere. The following
players represented Dalhousie:—MclIsaac, Dunlop, Zinck, Smith, Dunn, Beaton, Horsler, Hickey, Jerrett. Timekeeper, A. R. Baird; goal
judge, Dr. A. R. Reid; acting manager, J. A.
Dunlop.

RESULTS AT A GLANCE!
HOCKEY:
(Senior)

Jan. 24—Dal, 5; Crescents, 1.

Jan. 27—Dartmouth, 4; Dal, 3.
(Intercollegiate)

Dal, 7; Kings, 3.

(Junior)
Jan, 24—Orescents, 2; Dal, 1.
Jan. 27—Dal, 2; Dartmouth, 0.
(Interfaculty)

Jan.

Jan.

)

Jan. 28—Arts '24, 3; Arts ’22, 1.
Extraordinary

Can. Bank of Commerce,4; Law, 3.

BASKETBALL:
Wanderers, 40; Dal, 34.

TIGERS TRIM HALF MOONS 5-1.

Dalhousie won two games on Tuesday, January 24; they re-won in the committee room the
game, they had already won from the Wanderers, on the ice; and that same evening took the
Crescents into camp by a 5 to 1 score, The ice
was fast, in fact almost too fast, for all except
ome Fabie Bates who ran amuck and scored 4
out of the 5 Dalhousie goals, his team matte and
room mate Roe McKenna getting the other.

The Crescents drew first blood, with the
Tigers as usual going slow in the opening stages.
However, before the end of the period Bates ran

skating their rivals and “Duke” stopping with
ease all that came his way.

The intermediate game which was almost as
fast as the first was finally won by the Crescents,
2 goals to 1.

a

BASKETBALL
Wanderers Win Over Dal 40—34.

os

a3

I

ee

G

as

erfaculty game” is absolutely inaccurate. The inay schedule had been drawn up long beore —*

Jones, on the forward line, McGuire on defence
and Lougheed in goal were the shining lights for
the Lawyers, while Somers and Dexter did siome
good work for the “extractors.” Tonight Law
will meet Medicine in what promises to be the
‘big affair’ of the year. The game will commence at shanp seven o’clock, so be there on time
to moot for your faculty. |

STANDING OF THE LEAGUE
HOCKEY:

(Senior)
Ww L
SE ated Oeea ye be wien ceva 2 1
Dartrmouth .....ccccccccce 2 1
Weeeripe re rier 2 1
i. veteeeee ekedens 0 8

(Junior)
L
Wanderers .........:s000, 3 0
Cs ua 40d 4d Ces ah 2 1
S wheden edt buss secewnas 1 2
DMTUMOUT 6 occ ccccescces 0 3

BASKETBALL:

WwW L
Gt, George's on... ccceees 4 0
Wanderers .......cccecee, 8 1
Pkt hp Gehh Gavk ChE EOL 2 2
Wit Ge le thet ensasdneul 2 2
CEs cvs v's 04's Wid wees 1 3
SE, MOBY oes cece ees 0 4

STOP PRESS

Dalhousie plays Dartmouth again on Friday
night. The game will be close and Captain Duke
MacIsaac wants every Dal supporter out to help
his team win.

Final trials for the Intercollegiate Debate at
the School for the Blind Thursday night, February 2nd. The following will take part. M. C.
MacDonald; J. H. MacF adden; L. W. Fraser; A.
G. MacKinnon; I. K. Forsythe; J. A. Forbes; H.
Norton; 8S. Gilchrist.

Bill Gunn’s “scintillating sextette” of Arts ’22
suffered an eclipse at the of Arts ’24 on
Saturday, when they were.on the short end of a
8 to 1 score. “Lack of condition” Bill says “and
too late hours.”

THE MARLBOROUGH
Since the festive occasion at this
mansion everyone has been very quiet
and subdued refraining from partaking

. in the usual festivities of the outer world

except for the occasional skate in the
rink, especially on ‘‘Dal’’ night, when
one would be doubtful whether it could
be called a skate or not; such difficulties were experienced by the seekers of
amusement that they returned vowing
that never again would they try skating on ‘‘Dal’’ night. However, with the
sudden change of weather for the colder
perhaps such vows will be retracted and
again the Marlboro, in a body will arrive
at the Arena to return in the same com
pany.

Ouite the topic under discussion now
is ‘*whom shall I ask to the Delta Gamma dance?’’ because this is the only
chance for the smile of approval from

1 ‘
a=
el

{
/ a

 
—_—— ee —

MOCK PARLIAMENT

While the country’s business is in
the most chaotic state in the nation’s
history, at the time of this writing the
cabinet personnel of Dalhousie was still
unannounced. Each party blames the
other for the endless delay, and charges
and counter-charges of further manipulation and log-rolling have been hurled
back and forth for weeks. Almost everybody wants a job, and the leaders of the
three parties don’t know where they
stand in the matter of support from one
hour to another. The Gazette, at great
expense, however, and with a spirit of
enterprise never equalled by any paper
in the history of journalism, is able to
state with practical certainty, tho unofficially, that the Liberals under R. M.
Fielding will have a government formed
before this appears in print, and the cabinet slate will be very much like the following, that is to say:

Premier, minister of external affairs
and president of the council—R. M.
Fielding, member for Rockingham.

Minister of Finance—J. R. Nicholson, member for Neweastle.

Minister of Public Works—Dudley
F. MeGeer, member for Centre Vancouver.

Minister of Railways and Canals-. ©. Macleod, member for West
Toronto.

Minister of National Defence—J. L.
M. White, member for Halifax.

Minister of D. 8S. C. R. and Health—
J. F. Macneill, member for Moncton.

Minister of Justice—W. C. Dunlop,
member for Cumberland.

Secretary of State—C. B. McAskill,
member for Cape Breton.

Postmaster-general—C. R. Beazley,
member for Halifax.

Minister of Marine and Fisheries—
S. M. Zinck, member for Lunenburg.

Minister of Agriculture—A.W. Murray, member for Annapolis.

Minister of the Interior—M. C. Langwith, member for South Winnipeg.

Minister of Inland Revenue—J. K.
C. Haslam, member for Montreal.

Solicitor-general—R. McCall, member for Picton.

Minister of Oustoms — James K.
Hackett, member for West Calgary.

Minister of Labor—Not yet decided.

Minister of Immigration—Not yet

decided. |
Minister of Trade and Commerce—

Henry Wickwire.

Mr. Fielding found himself well supplied with cabinet timber, though several leading Liberals, such as W. A.
Livingstone, K. L .Crowell, R. M. Palmer and G. R. Ramey, declined to ac
nore sen be but will give the adinistration ty support.
mie . ble that Mr. Crowell will

a in reply to the speech
front is said that there has been con
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

week as to who will be leader of the official opposition, J. F. Mahoney of the
Conservatives, or L. D. Currie, of the
Progressives.

The policy of Canada, recently inaugurated, to have a representative at
Washington, will be enlarged upon, it
is understood. We must have a minister to Panama, and Mr. Crowell is prominently mentioned, though he says he
doesn’t like the hot summers down
there, but the Government can find him
a summer job in the Yukon. Eric Jerrett is after the post of ambassador to
Newfoundland, and EK. L. Cross wants
a similar position in the West Indies.
All of these have been staunch supporters of the Liberal party. The ambassadorship to Russia may yet be filled by
Mr. Currie.

The Gazette, we feel assured, is ‘the
first paper to annonce some of the
legislation which is hkely to be introduced at the coming epochal session.
Some of the bills proposed, with the
members introducing them, follow:

An act to amend an act to regulate
dances and dancing—Mr. Dunlop.

An act to provide for more conveniences for the members of the house—
Mr. Maeneill.

An act to propagate actions of divoree in Canada—The Premier.

An act to compel all Law students to
pay up their Society fees—The Minister
of Finance. .

An act to eut out work on public
work—The Minister of Public Works.

An act to provide for free transpor
tation for Government supporters—The

Minister of Railways and Canals.
An act to provide free postage for

~ Government supporters—The P.M.G.

An act to make fish of one and flesh
of another—The Minister of Marine and
Fisheries.

An act to farm the farmers—The
minister of agriculture.

An act to provide certain necessities
for Government supporters gratis—The
Minister of Inland enue,

An act to make bad habits illegal—
The Minister of Customs.

tion in Naval Science.

development of further
Service, Ottawa.

 

Ottawa, February 3, 1921

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVAL SERVICE ,

ROYAL NAVAL COLLEGE, CANADA

The Royal Naval College is established for the purpose of imparting a complete educa
Graduatcs are qualified to enter the Imperial or Canadian Services as midshipmen. A
Naval career is not compulsory, however, For those who do not wish to enter the Navy the
course provides a thorough grounding
entry as second year students in Canadian Uni

The scheme of education aims at developing discipline
charge, a high sense of honour, both physical and mental, a good grounding in Science,
gineering, Mathematics, Navigation, History and Modern ‘Languages, as a, basis for eenonl

Particulars of entry may be obtained on application to the Department of the Naval

| Pending erection of buildings to replace those destroyed at the time of Halifax
disaster, the Royal Nayal College is located at Esquimalt, near Victoria, B. C. a

Publication of this advertisement will not be paid for.

 

Dalhousie Headquarters

Sporting Goods

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at
our store at 40 Sackville Street.
We can supply you with every
thing for Sport Life. Also Pocket
Knives, Razors, Shaving Supplies.

Morton & Thomson

 

Announcement

THE TARRY INN is under the management of two Dal. students, Fred Tremain,
Arts ’22, and John McCurdy, Dentistry, 26.
As students we understand what students

want.
BREAKFAST
LUNCHEON

SUPPER
CONFECTIONERY
FRUIT
PASTRY

Special Rates for Students

TARRY INN

SPRING GARDEN ROAD. Sack. 3875

 

      

ALPHA. BETA

You know the rest of this Alphabet, but
won’t you learn the Alphabet from a music
dealers’ text boak. It starts like this:—
Amherst Pianos, Accordeons,
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles,
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos,
Celestaphones, Carionets, Drums.
EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC.
And so on, every letter represented, Everything in
* musical goods from a Piaho to a Jewsharp.

Call and inspect our Goods before going elsewhere.
J. A. McDONALD PIANO &
MUSIC CO., Ltd.

419 Barrington Street, Halifax, N. 8.
Phone Sackville 1200.

 
   
         
       
         
       
   
     
 

in Applied Science and is. accepted as qualifying for
versities.
with ability to obey and take

G. J. DESBARATS : Pf
Deputy Minister of the Naval Service.

 
