  

Che B

Vol. LIV.

The Dalhousie Gazette

Founded 1869
Issued Weekly - - - - One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - - - « « J, GORDON FOGO

Associate Editors

Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Amy McKean
Miss Juanita O’Connor D. C. uhoun
R. F. Callan M. M. McOdrum
H. A. Creighton, B.A. R. R. Dalgleish
P. M. Cassidy
Sports Editor - - + - - H. E. Read, B. A.
Special Reporters
A. C. Milner D. R. Webster, B.A.
| A. Chester Smith
Staff Artists
Miss Rose Leslie C. W. Currie

BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.
129 Spring Garden Road

All subscripttons and advertising accounts payable to the Business Manager.

Se
EDITORIAL

 

Two football games at Studley and
practically the whole indebtedness incurred during the summer has been
wiped out; what a blow to the pessimistic souls who declared that the plan of
repayment adopted would be a failure.
Favored with almost perfect weather
conditions, with consequent record attendances, the gate receipts have reached a pleasing total. An expression of
thanks to the spectators for their patronage of the new field seems not entirely out of place at this juncture. Their
co-operation also, in the matter of seating, has been admirable. The inexperienced ushers, unaccustomed to handling
people in large numbers, have been met
with a very considerate attitude on the
part of the spectators. In the few difficulties which did arise, the spectators
have ee the necessary changes

with exceedingly good grace.

The fact that the ‘‘Freshie-Soph’”’
annual social event was held in an
auditorium in the city reminds us that
there is a large building at Studley, the
gymnasium, extremely well suited for
such an affair and it seems regrettable
that it cannot be utilized.
no small amount of money, of which the
ete aes

o hire a or the purpose OF nav!
a dance. Many reasons are given for

 

    

It requires.

ousie Gazette

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. S.. NOVEMBER 8, 1922

 

the chief reason seems to be that satisfactory arrangements cannot be made
with the governing bodies. That is to
say, it is available, but with numerous
restrictions which the students think
too onerous and fear would threaten the
enjoyment of themselves and_ their
guests. Surely, it would be a simple
matter to work out a plan which would
be suitable to all parties concerned.

 

Among the outstanding figures of the
advisory committee which is responsible for the metamorphosed playing
field at Studley, is Mr. G. Fred Pearson,
alumnus and Governor. Ever one of
best friends of Dalhousie, Mr. Pearson
and his good deeds are well known to
the students, past and present, and
need no further comment here.

 

Through the courtesy of Dr. Fraser
Harris, President of the Canadian Club,
a number of the students were enabled
to hear Mr. Basil King, the celebrated
author, explain the object of ‘Canadian
Book Week’’ at the School for the Blind
Blind last week. Those who attended
were exceedingly fortunate, and were
delighted with their contact with a real
live Canadian author.

 

Dalhousie was fortunate in securing
Mr. W. E. Stirling as a gymnasium instructor. Well trained and experienced
on matters of physical education, his
services are now at the disposal of all
students. This is a wonderful opporportunity to get regular exercise, so
necessary to the student, under proper
supervision. The gymnasium, though
not yet fully equipped, is ready for use
and classes are being formed daily. The

schedule for the year is being drawn up

this week, so those interested should get
a period allotted to their class or group.

ERRATA.

The number of students taking
classes at the Law School this year is

seventy-nine. The number (63) given

in the last issue of the Gazette did not
include the sixteen who are registered
in both Arts and Law.

Acknowledgments
- The Gazette wishes to acknowledge
receipt of subscriptions from the folae :—Dr. Christena McLeod, Miss
, Rev. BE. J. O. Fraser,

 

Messrs. nerd Bean, O. Gardiner.

Nicnorson, Bus. Mgr.

on

 

Canadian Book Week

Not a Canadiati Book Week to merely sell more Canadian books, but one to
stimulate the growth of a great Canadian literature and encourage native
authors by appreciation of their efforts
to express to the world the people of
Canada, was that advocated by Mr.
Basil King during his visit here last
week. Mr. King, a Canadian with a distinguished literary career, is a native of
Prince Edward Island.

In his address, Mr. King displayed
a broad knowledge of his subject, and
held the attention of his large audience
at all times. The auditorium of the
School for the Blind was completely
filled by an audience eager to get better acquainted with Canadian literature
and those who make it.

The speaker declared that writers
were submitting to the world a true portrait of the country and its people; they
represent, in part, the creative art of
the land, and it is only while that creative art exists that the nation survives.
Permanency was not produced by material progress alone. And, he continued, if the people themselves did not
inspire the writing of the book, the
painting of the picture, or the lyrical
composition, it would never be produced.

In reference to the inauguration of —
the Canadian Authors’ Association and
its objects, the speaker paid a glowing
tribute to Dr. Archibald MeMechan, of
this university, as one of the leaders of
the movement.

‘‘Think of us as your representatives, saying the things that you are
thinking, using your words, singing your
songs, painting your pictures. If you
care for us, we can do infinitely better
work,’’ concluded the noted artist.

Dr. Fraser Harris, president of the
Canadian Club, introduced the speaker.

PERSONAL.

Dr. Archibald MeMechan spent last
week visiting several Ontario cities,
where he spoke in connection with Canadian Book Week, September 28 to
November 4.

 

Mr. V. ©. McDonald, LL.B., ’20, who
lectured on Sales at the Law School last
year, is delivering a course of lectures

is term.
9
 

2

iss Wrong’s Message

Miss Margaret Wrong, who has
spent the past year and a half among
the students of Central Europe has been
at Dalhousie all week. She addressed
several meetings, all of which were
largely attended.

Miss Wrong in her travels has accumulated a marvellous store of information. and her keen intellect and
unbiased judgment eyabled her to present a storv of hardship amd struggle
among the students in the war-stricken
countries. which not only appealed to
the symnathy of her audiences, but also
to their interest. Her intimate knowledge of the political situation in that
part of the world also threw an interesting light on conditions there.

The growing interest of the students
in the Christian Student Movement was
elearly manifested by the number who
attended the meetings. President McKenzie very considerately suspended
lectures from eleven to twelve Monday
morning. thus enabling the students to
hear Miss Wrong. Over one hundred
and fifty were present and all enjoyed
it very much.

Miss Wrong has left those who were
fortunate enough to hear her much food
for thought, and it is to ‘be regretted
that she could not remain in the city
longer. All join in wishing her ‘‘ Bon
Voyage’’ as she journeys to resume her
work in Europe.

 

 

MEDICINE VS. DENTISTRY

‘Resolved that Dalhousie students
should be required to wear academic costume while in the university buildings,”’
is the subject to be debated by representatives of the faculties of Medicine
and Dentistry on Friday evening, November 10, in the Munro Room. Messrs.
J. EB. Grant and D. R. Webster, of Medicine, will argue for the affirmative, and
Messrs. Murray Logan and Gordon
Dawson, of Dentistry, for the negative.
Reserve the evening and come early to
this interesting discussion.

FOOTWEAR

QUALITY, SERVICE, ECONOMY

Footwear for all times and sea
sons at the new LOW PRICES.

This is the Nearest Shoe Store
to Dalhousie.

THE SPRING GARDEN
_ SHOE STORE

W. FENTON, Manager.
25 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
5% Discount to All Students

   

 
 

       
 
     
   
   

; r '
ot yea ENS ele Si Ca paella

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CORRESPONDENCE

(The Gazette accepts no responstbility for views expressed m this

column,
Correspondents are requested not
to, exceed three hundred words.)

 

To the Editor:

Sir,—Would you be good enough to
publish the names of the ‘‘ Advisory
Committee’’ who are largely responsible
for the excellent condition of the campus at Studley ? Certainly it represents
a great deal of effort on the part of
some who have not been personally mentioned. or

When is Dal going to have a real
university dance ? One is led to believe
that some time in the not too remote past
such functions were not entirely unknown—at: least, we had them in the
Munro Room in the ‘‘ ante bellum”’ days.
The present subscription affairs are
tame indeed and seem to lack the university atmosphere. The excessive cost of
the modern functions is also a matter of
grave consideration with most of the
students.

What is to prevent holding a dance
in the gymnasium for all the Dalhousie
family, where ordinary chaps could meet
the co-eds and otherwise enjoy themselves ? Or have such events passed
forever into history ? MED.

GENEROUS DONATIONS TO
THE LAW LIBRARY

The Law Library acknowledges with
thanks donations as follows :-—

From C. J. Burchell, B. A. (’97),
M. A. (99), LL.B., (99), Lecturer in
Shipping :—

Roscoe’s Admiralty Practice.

Osborn, Problems of Proof.

' From J. MeG. Stewart, B. A. (’09),

LL.B. (714) :—
Volumes 30-34 inclusive of the Law

Quarterly Review. '
From His Honour Judge Patterson,

B, A. (82), M. A. (’87), LL.B. (89) :—

Lives of Eminent English Judges—W.
N. Welsby. |

Trial of Madeline Smith—A. Dunean
Smith, F.A.S. (‘Scot.)

Erskine’s Speeches.

A Guide to Town Officers—Daniel Dickson,

Dr. Lardner’s Oabinét Oyclopaedia.

Serjeant Ballantine’s Experiences—Mr.

erjeant Ballantine.
Lays of a Limb of the Law—John Popplestone.
Bramwelliana—Edward Manson.
Crustula Juris—Mary E. Fletcher and
‘Bernard W. Russell.

Bench and Bar—L. J. Bigelow.
Splinters: or A Grist of eiggion.

Contributions such as these are much

appreciated,

4 a! oe ea A
ei ee
ue >; Bg i

The New Gym. Instructor

W. E. Sterling, the recently. appointed gymnasium instructor, comes to Dalhousie highly recommended by J. H.
Orocker, secretary of physical education of the Y. M. C. A. National Council of Canada. He is well qualified and
has had a broad experience in his particular sphere. Prior to entering the
Y. M. C. A. seven years ago, Mr. Sterling occupied a collegiate post at Trinity
College, Port Hope, Ontario. for over
six years, and there his ability as an
all-round athlete and gymnast was ably
shown. A _ notable item is that Mr.
Sterling was at one time Canadian
wrestling champion in the bantam
weight class. He excels in teaching and
coaching in several lines of sport, such
as boxing, wrestling, swimming, lifesaving, elementary and advanced gymnastics, tumbling, football, basketball,
fencing, hockey and gymnastic dancing.

In physical work for girls, he has
had ten years experience in many lines,
these include light gymnatics, calesthenics. basketball, indoor baseball, volley
ball and fencing.

Dr. James Lawley of Glace Bay,
spent the week-end in the city. ‘‘Jim’’
has been managing one of the teams in
the Cape Breton County League this
season and while here mav complete arrangements for a game between Caledonia and tke Wanderers.

  
   

  

   

NOVEMBER 4th

A New Drug Store Opened on
the above date by

DAN CAMPBELL

(A Dalhousie Graduate in Pharmacy)
We carry a full line of
Drugs, Chocolates, Toilet Articles,
Accessories, etc,

DROP IN AND SEE US

285, Barrington Street
(Opposite Ladies’ College)

 
   
   
      
 
       
     
      
       
       
   

      
      
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   

 

 

Pine Hill Post

“‘Holy, holy, holy—’’

The theologues have _ returned.
There was no demonstration on their
arrival—nobody saw them come, but
everybody knows they are here; a subtle air of piety seems to pervade the
whole place, and now apd again
glimpses of them are caught.

The first to arrive was Roy Inglis,
then J. D. MeLeod and Don. Sinclair,
and at last ‘‘Bad Bill’? Forsythe,
straight from the wild and woolly west
—chaps on his legs and a gun on each
hip. After much ceremony some ‘‘Pine
Hillers’? were granted an audience
with several of them and learned some
of their experiences. Most of them had
been in the west, but not one of them
had shot a man, gambled away more
than a hundred dollars in one game, or
been drunk more than five nights in one
week. The impression is gaining that
these western movies must be a bit exaggerated,—however a few had some
stooking, while two got engaged. Victor Walls has not arrived yet, although
two of the five foolish virgins were
down to meet the late train the other
night. The two Aitken brothers stepped off the train together Monday night
and arrived simultaneously in Pine
Hill. J. D. McLeod did very extensive
entertaining this summer, Herme
Campbell played a great deal of baseball
and Alex. Murray, instead of attending
prayer meeting, stuffed his little birds.

Bert. Zwicker, who came here from
Lunenburg via Pictou Academy, takes a
keen interest in everything pertaining to
public affairs. Especially did he make
an exhaustive study of the Hyro-Electric situation with regard to the tramways and after an extensive calculation
based on Avogadro’s hypothesis and
proved by the fourth syllogism decided
that transfers should be always negotiable. However, the conductor had not
time to follow the details of the problem,
so charged Bert. seven cents and the
policeman let him off with a thréat.

Many were startled on arrival from
class the other afternoon to find another
telephone booth installed, While it is
available for all it is understood that it
was os special efforts of A. B. Simpson, W. A. Patterson and some kindred
spirits that it was secured. (Shades of
Milne Blanchard). Ae

McGregor Grant, conscience stricken
because he + at ig removed two
books from the Pine Hill. library, returned them and confessed to Dr. MeKinnon, who, having been young once
himself, gave him a very sympathetic
hearing, There is a lesson here for all,

Viz.» the short step from apples to books.

 

“

 
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

DALHOUSIE BOURSE

Giridiron, common and preferred, is
at a premium, Senate is below par and
Professors are not yet back to normal.
Class Pins are picking up. Freshman,
long in a slump, is almost back to normal, but the bottom may drop out of
these stocks any time. Dances are $97
under par since the Freshie-Soph.
Theatre parties are in a state of uncertainty but some insist they see evidences
of an upward trend. Co-eds, preferred,
are at a premium. Powder Puffs and
Silk Hosiery are finding purchasers.
On account of the return of the
‘‘Gazette’’ paper, pens and ink are far
above normal. A rush on last year’s
theme-book has taken place. The sudden rise in moustaches (tooth brush
variety) was rather unexpected. Spats
are also rising, white silk socks are in
a slump. Pig-skin, preferred, is the
leader.

B. I.

LAW DANCE TO-NIGHT.

The annual Law Dance takes place
this evening at the Auditorium. With a
capable committee in charge of the arrangements, those who attend are assured of a real good time.

 

A certain well known Math. Prof.
(explaining problems)—‘‘Now watch
the board, while I run through it once
more.’’

MEN’S RESIDENCE

| There are still a few good rooms
| available for students. Rate
| $8.75 ‘per week. Application
| should be made immediately to |
| the Manager, Mr. W. Nisbet, or |

to any of the members of the }
Residence or House Committees. |

|

 

     
 

FALL AND WINTER

SUITS and OVERCOATS
TO MEASURE

Now is the best time to order
your SUIT or COAT. Fine display
of Imported and Domestic Suitings and Overcoatings — Blacks,
Blues, Fancy Worsted Tweed. |

CLAYTON & SONS

     
    
   
     
   
     

JACOB STREET

 
 

—_—- —
a
—— ae

teh
nt teen rel a —

University Hall

Karly Monday morning of last week,
the Knights of the Bath decided to hold
their annual meeting. After ‘roll call
the society immediately proceeded with
the initiation of new’ members. The
only bath tub in the house (that’s a
fact) was filled up, and four candidates
for aquatic honors took an early morning constitutional. By this time many
enthusiasts had appeared on the scene,
and as they expressed a desire for further entertainment, the committee in
charge (ever anxious to please) decided
to carry on for another half hour.

‘Hot towel! ‘That last half hour
was good. They immediately proceeded
with their next number, a snappy oneglove scrap. After two gruelling rounds
of straight-arms, which would have
made even Monte look sick, the leather
pushers were withdrawn and the next
spasm of the show was announced, This
consisted of a one-hand hit-me-if-youcan match. There was lots of action,
and it didn’t take a cheer leader to bring
out the applause. That Yarmouth guy
sure is the elephant’s trunk when it
comes to one paw. He had everything
his way until one minute to go, when
the Foggy City champ knocked him for
row of Chinese milk cans. Finally the
spectators having signified their approval by cries of ‘‘Hot Dog’’, the toreadors were released from the: arena.
As it was then getting rather early,
everyone went to bed, voting the party
a huge success, as they say about the
Freshman theatre parties.

The following night, about two p. x.,
the victims attempted to make a comeback. For some unknown reason, they
picked on C—m—n, and-even got as far
as tying him a la Samson style; when
he woke up, and by sheer mental power
compelled them to desist. Defeated in
their aim, they backed out of No. 7, taking with them four quaking hearts, eight
knocking knees, and one unused can of
black shoe polish. They say Freddie
slept through it all.

At the time of writing the billiard
tournament is in full swing. The second

_ round is very nearly completed. Among

the possibles is Guthro, one of last
year’s champs. The betting is also
heavy in favour of Dr. Dawson and.
James Graham. The appearance of two ©
dark horses, Monte Haslam and Hall,
has kind of upset the dope. Hull is
praying in his first tournament at the
Hall. A. ©. M.

NOTICE

There will be a mass meeting of the
students of the Arts and Science Faculty
in the Munro Room on Thursday evening, Nov. 5, at 7.15 o’clock, to discuss.
the 100% attendance rule. Everybody
in the faculty is expected to be there and
all others interested are invited.

 
eight; while those scheduled at

 

 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 

   
  
 

pAernulen mere figures taken by
themselves can not convey an adequate idea of the many factors and influences which have contributed to the
progress of Dalhousie Law School in
the teaching of legal subjects, they
serve well as an index of the results of
those contributing forces, and as, such,
admit of comparisons and conclusions.

In pursuance of this, taking as a pertinent example the number of hours de
‘voted to lectures, it is found that in the

year 1913-14 the total scheduled to be
given was five hundred and six; (although, due to all but one of the lecturers at that time being busy judges
and lawyers, it was probably necessarily less); while last year the actual total
was twelve hundred and twenty-eight.
Now, although outside lecturers, whose
work is both invaluable and indispensible, still form a great proportion of
the staff, there are three full time professors.

That throughout this broadening
process a high scholastic standard has
not only been maintained, but even raised, is evinced by the recorded results,
and needs no elaboration here. |

Dalhousie has gained a well earned
position of leadership in the sphere of
Canadian legal education.. Of the law
schools which aspire to that leadership,
and which are admittedly in the forefront among the institutions of juristic
learning in this country, are Osgoode
Hall (Toronto), and McGill.

Upon study of the statistics contained in the last annual report of the Principal of Osgoode Hall (published in a
recent issue of the Ontario Weekly
Notes), a careful perusal of the McGill
calendar, and _ investigation of the
records of the work of Dalhousie Law

_ School last year, some very instructive

comparisons are evident. Of these
statistics, it is well to remark, those of
Osgoode Hall and Dalhousie may be
taken as authoritative and accurate,
while those concerning McGill are but
approximate, and derived from a study
of the scheduled curriculum.

The total number of lecture hours
given at Osgoode Hall during the year

1921-22 was six hundred and t -.

three; those at Dalhousie, as stated
above, twelve hundred and :

Progress of Dalhousie Law School

 

Statistics Allow Some Interesting Comparisons and Helpful Conclusions------
Great Need of Additional Endowment

By “Quill”.

‘tea

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

approximated twelve hundred, taking
the Common Law and Civil Law courses
together.

Principal Hoyles, and Professor Falconbridge, the two full time lecturers at
Osgoode Hall, gave one hundred and
thirty-two, and one hundred and seventy-five hours respectively. At McGill
the three full time lecturers were scheduled as follows: Professor Rose, one
hundred and fifty; Professor Smith,
and Professor McKay, two hundred and
seventy each, roughly. The lecture
hours given by Dalhousie’s three full
time lecturers were recorded as follows: Dean MacRae, three hundred
and thirty-one; Professor Smith, three
hundred and fifty-one; and Professor
Read, two hundred and seventy, with
an additional one hundred and twentyfive hours given to practical work with
the classes in Procedure.

Without comment these figures
speak for themselves in a superficial
way highly favorable to Dalhousie, The
fact that on deeper investigation they
also bespeak a high quality of work, reveals at the same time a high degree of
self sacrifice and constant overwork,
on the part of the professors responsible. When, for instance, it is considered that in addition to his duties as
Dean, Dr. MacRae must devote so great
an amount of time to lectures, as compared to the Principal of Osgoode Hall,
this conclusion becomes very apparent.

Concerning this phase of the subject
the following quotation from an article
in the Harvard Law Review by Professor Thayer of Harvard is very much
in point: ‘*The teaching of law...
requires, as regards any one of the
great heads of our law, in the present
stage of our science, an enormous and
absorbing amount of labor. ‘This
means...limiting the task of the instructors. Instead of allotting to a man
the whole of the common law, or half
a dozen disconnected subjects at once
it means giving him a far more limited
field—one single subject, perhaps; two
or three at most; if more than one, then,
if possible, nearly related subjects; to

the end that as the final outcome of his

studies some solid, public, and permanent contribution may be made to the
main topic which he has in hand.”’

(Continued on page 6).

  

—— TH E ———

YOUNG MAN’S STORE

ae

   

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and imspect our stock
before purchasing.

  
   

     

  

   

| W. F. PAGE rts," |

HALIFAX, N, 8.

   

| NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY
1088 to 1090 Barrington St. |

¥

| Cut Flowers, Bouquets |
| and all Floral Work |

   
    

 

    
 

| A. & W. MacKinlay

LIMITED

‘PUBLISHERS, STATIONERS
AND MANUFACTURERS OF
LOOSE LEAF OUTFITS.

Depot for Swan Fountain Pens

College Paper Stamped from Die.
135-187 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX

  
  

  
       
    

¥- of Bi arkeetdiaodoadbntheons

Alphabet, but won't you
learn the Alphabet from a music dealer's text book. |
It starts like this:—

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons,
- Auto Hai yy So ge
Gremonaphonee,\Carnts, Cellos,

- EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC.
We also carry a nice line of Pictures—
Harrison Fisher's Maxfield Parrish's, etc.

We Invite You to Join Our Fiction —
Lending Society 2c per day.

    
  
     

 

——_—_—_aQeQYernr ee

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ee ee

 

 

Commerce Clearings

Professor Humt Meets Society to Arrange Series of Important Lectures.

Professor B. C. Hunt, Honorary
President of the Commerce Society, addressed that body at its meeting on Wednesday, October 25. After expressing
his gratification at the number present
and his pleasure at seeing together the
entire body of Commerce students,
whom he had hitherto only met in small
groups at various lectures, he stated that
his principal object in meeting the Society was to make arrangements for the
Business Men’s Lectures, which had
proved such a valuable source of information last year. He said he had broached
the subject to several prominent men,
who had assured him of their hearty cooperation. He believed that it would be
preferable, this year, to make all arrangements with the lecturers through
his office instead of through the president of the Commerce Society, because
by so doing a more complete and varied
series of lectures could be obtained.

He also urged the Society to appoint
a committee for the purchase of commercial text books direct from the publishers in order to eliminate expense.

These remarks of Professor Hunt
were received with enthusiastic applause. At their conclusion, he withdrew, and the regular business of the
Society was transacted.

The Archives Committee presented a
petition for a book in which to keep the
records, of the Society, which are
already very numerous. The Society
was favorable to this plan.

In accordance with Professor Hunt’s
suggestion, a committee for the purchase
of text books was appointed, comprising
one student from each year.

The first Commerce social event was
then discussed. It was decided to hold
this during the first week of November.
The exact date and the form it will take
were left to the discretion of the Social
Committee, consisting of Mr. H. A.
Mowatt, Mr. Gordon Beazley and Miss
Ruth Fulton. | |

| J. OC.

 
    
   
   
  
 

 
   
    
 

| Jensen & Mills Co., Ltd.
Changed from
Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd.
TWO STORES
26 Spring Garden Road

119 Young Street |

- GENERAL DRY GOODS
: _ READY TO WEAR»
MILLINERY and CUSTOM TAILORING.

 

 
 
   
     
   
    

  
     
   
  

        
     
  

‘evening last,

_ the working man.

Interfaculty Debate

Arts Won Honors from Law in Econom1c Discussion at Sodales.

One of the best interfaculty debates
heard at Dalhousie for many years, took
place in the Munro Room on Friday
when Arts won a hard
earned decision over Law. The subject, ‘‘Resolved that the coal mines of
Canada should be controlled by the
Government’’ was upheld in the affirmative by C. S. Richardson and G. P.
Flavin, while F. Bissett and D. MelInnis supported the negative.

MR. RICHARDSON, Affirmative.
—Spoke of the dangers of exploitation
of privately owned mines and the
lack of necessary capital with the consequent resulting poorer conditions for
Closed with a plea
for ‘‘economic democracy’’. Showed exceptional fire and fluency, possibly. appealed more to the earn than to the
mind of his hearers.

MR. BISSETT, Negative. —Gave a
comprehensive outline of economic
theory since Adam Smith. Declared
that the present ideal of labor was
neither private ownership nor government control, but rather a Communistic
idea of operation and profit sharing.
Dealt with the question from standpoint
of employer and employed.

MR. FLAVIN, Affirmative.—Offered a theoretical system for the management and operation of mines under
government control. Convincing and interesting.

MR. McINNIS, Negative-—Brought
forward strong analogous arguments to
prove failure of resolution. Argued
from standpoint of public.

Both Mr. Bissett and Mr. Richardson did well in rebuttal. The judges,
Messrs, Creighton, Baxter and Hogen,
after a prolonged private discussion,
rendered a decision in favor of Arts.
Law led easily in presentation but confined themselves too much to _ generalities. President L. W. Fraser of the

-Sodales Society occupied the chair and

introduced the speakers. The debate
was well attended.
A. BR.

‘‘Say, Pansy,’’ said one Engineer to
another, ‘‘did you see that girl with the
pearl gray hat who sat across from us
in the car ?”’ |

‘Pearl gray hat? No, I didn’t no
tice.’’ |

‘Oh, you must have seen her; she

had on a fawn coat, fawn stockings—”’

Oh ! Did that girl have a pearl gray
hat ?”

or. me
A true friend will ne’er you trip but

| faithfully sail your friendship.

Observe your landing place before
you seid

OXFORD VS. HARVARD.
Though Harvard defeated Oxford in
the debate on the question ‘Resolved,
that the United States should join immediately the League of Nations,’’ the

Knglishmen, handicapped by the sudden |

illness of the leader, who was unable to
speak, put up a remarkably good fight
in the unequal contest.

When the vote was taken it was
found that 1000 had voted for the affirmative, Oxford, and 1614 for the
negative, Harvard. The debate took
place in the Symphony Hall at Boston,
and was heart by 5000 people.

‘*‘PRESCRIPTION WRITERS”

Opportunity knocks at door of
Dalhousie Medical graduates—to establish first aid room and to dispense doctors’ certificates at a nominal fee to
those unfortunates who, arriving late,
become ill waiting for class room doors
to be opened.

Who’ll be the first ?

 
 

Your Future ?

  

 

«

      

Some day, perhaps to-morrow, you will need money.

  
  

If you have not saved what
will you do?

     
  
 

  

If you have been wise and
have saved the future will
not worry you.

    
     

The easiest, quickest and
most satisfactory way to
obtain money is to save it.

    
 

Save from your allowance
now, make regular deposits
in the Bank and financing
your needs will be the least
of your worries later on in
life.

 
   
     
      

THE
ROYAL BANK
OF CANADA

Deposits Exceed $470,000,000,

Over 100 Branches in the
_ Maritime Provinces

    
      
  

 
 
 

’

      
 

 
1 Nae

 

ee - _ oe
a TT

PROGRESS OF DALHOUSIE—
(Continued from page 4).

Consistent with Professor Thayer’s
thesis, it is an obvious deduction, to
take a contemporary example, that if
Professor Falconbridge had a lecture
burden equal to that of Dalhousie’s law
professors, he would not have the time
for the wide and intensive study necessary as a basis for his valuable contributions to legal knowledge through his
text books and articles.

It is impossible to make a greater
demand upon the time of the already
overworked Judiciary and the Halifax
practising members of the Bar, They
continue to make an inestimable contribution to the success of the Law School
at no small inconvenience to themselves.

There is clearly only one solution of
the problem which must be solved in order to allow time for exhaustive and
original research by the Dalhousie Professors of Law; work which must be
done if they are to have the opportunity,
which in all fairness they should have,
to add their quota to the present and
future knowledge of jurisprudence; and
to maintain Dalhousie’s leadership
among Canadian Law Schools. That
solution is the appointment of additional fuld time professors to the Law Faculty; one that will only be possible with
increased endowment.

That such endowment will be provided all feel assured, realizing as they
do that there are many among Dalhousie’s friends who believe with Professor
Thayer that ‘‘the first requisite for the
conduct of a Law School is faith in the
highest standards of work; and that
if the maintaining of these standards
does not pay financially, this circumstance is nothing to the purpose,—
maintained they must be, none the
less”. Additional endowment must be

provided.

 

The shortest story of all:—
Chap. I—Maid One.
Chap. II—Maid Won.
Chap, I1I—Made One.
—London Daily News.

  

Gauvin & Gentzel

18 Spring Garden Road
Photographers

GROUP WORK
A SPECIALTY

ELITE STUDIO.

a  —
—— ee

     
     
   
 

‘ ‘ f x, <

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

AT THE MAJESTIC

Don’t miss ‘“The Dumbells’’ 1922
Revue!

The management have secured this
attraction for the week starting
November 20th. The company is better than ever.
costumes are all new. If you want to
have a good laugh, be one of the crowd
who will attend.

This week Mr. Walter and his
players are producing ‘‘Three Wise
Fools.’’ It is one of their best productions this season.

LECTURE TO-NIGHT

Dr. H. 8. Thompson, Director of the
Canadian Oral Prophylactic Association, Toronto, will lecture in the Munro
Room this evening at 8 o’clock, his subject being ‘‘Oral Hygiene and the Prevention of Diseases of the Mouth.”’

The Dental Society, under whose
auspices the lecture will be held, are extremely fortunate in securing the services of Dr. Thompson. He has been
touring the Province in the interest of
this work, and as the subject is of such
vital importance and general interest, all
are cordially invited to attend.

Government Investigation at the
University of Toronto.

‘‘The first meeting of the Commission on University Affairs took place
in the Parliament Buildings, with Premier Drury in the chair.

The Commission was appointed following the controversy in the House
during the last session of the Legislature. It is empowered to investigate all
affairs of the Wniversity of Toronto, its
affiliated colleges and the Toronto General Hospital as far as the latter affects
the University. To aid in this investi
gation witnesses can be called to appear

and be put on oath.

It is probable that the question of
University finance will be considered
and also the methods of appointment to
the teaching staff and to the Board of
Governors. The committee can make
any recommendations it sees fit, and as
it has such a wide scope an interesting
report is expected.’ ’—Varsity.

 

OVER THE HARBOUR.

Scene—Mount Hope.

Professor (to a “nut’’ with a tendency to mental confusion)—‘‘Where do
you live ?”’ :

_ Inmate—“T don’t know.”’
Professor—‘What is your name ?’’
Inmate—“T don’t know.” |
Professor—‘‘How old are you ?”’
Tnmate—‘‘I don’t know.”

Professor (under his breath)—*‘Reminds me of a Dal. student in an examination.’’ at |

si =/ 2 4
x 7 _ i i y
Ps ¥ Fo ; ‘* hy 2.
uy 7 ee eon CS ora tt é— lige = ar « } 5H 2
i OF ge Bd oe eae ena, yt Oe Bale ee, 1h
5 aN = “i iH teES Re

= ars
4

. ; eh yey is “te | z a ake Fa
i - i ee eel i. ete ) ee Sf

 

The songs, jokes, and, |

    
    
 

STUDENTS!

YOU CAN SAVE 20% on your NOTE

BOOKS and SUPPLIES at our Store. |

Ww are pleased to announce that we are in

a position to fill your requirements.
Having stocked a complete line of BOUND
and LOOSE LEAF NOTE BOOKS of all
kinds, also exceptional values in STUDENTS’
supplies, and you can make a considerable
saving by visiting our store.

Frank M. O’Neill & Co. Ltd. |

Commercial] Stationers
160 GRANVILLE STREET, - HALIFAX

 

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
1283 YOUNG STREET

HATS BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

S MRRY 6. COLWREL ci .cc.ccccdccovooscneces President
1 GARNET J. COLWELL..............000 Vice-President

RAY J. COLWELL... ccccccsccccsecccscnscssees Director

| WRT, Th CORTES occ adiccaisti Secretary-Treasurer

 

UNGAR’S

How often a perfectly good
' garment is discarded because
it is soiled and stained. That

is because its owner dces not

realize our wonderful process
of French Dry-Cleaning, which
restores old clothes, and makes
them look like new.
Why not try us?
Phone Sack. 428
Laundering, Cleaning, Dyeing

 

 

 

> Dalhousie

Tigers Trim Kings By 14-3 Score

In Rugby Game At Windsor

 

Special, By “‘Tsau”.

In a clean, hard fought game, replete
with brilliant runs by Dalhousie backs,
and providing their best exhibition of
effective passing this season, the Tiger
Intercollegiate Team defeated Kings
at Windsor on November Ist, thus
becoming’ winners of the Hastern
Section and entitled to meet U.N. B.

for the Intercollegiate Championship.
The first half of the game was marked by a con
tinuous assault upon the Kings goal line, Langwith
crossing for a score twice, and Mont Haslam once.
Haslam converted one of these tries.

Haslam, Langwith, and Capt. “Dinty” Moore

- combined for some effective runs time after time,

only being*prevented from further scoring in this
period by the brilliant tackling of G. White of
Kings.

Kings opened the second period with a vigorous
offensive, carrying the ball immediately into Tiger
territory, and MacCoy went over for the Kingsmen’s only try of the game, Soon after, the same
player, being given a free kick, narrowly missed a
goal from placement. Then, however, the Gold and
Black awoke to the situation, and proceeded quickly
to regain the upper hand, threatening the home
team’s line continually until the final whistle.

The last score of the game was made by Mont
Haslam, when, sweeping aside tackler after tackler
in a race of over seventy yards to the goal line, he
made one of the prettiest runs seen on any Nova
Scotia gridiron this year, as well as a stellar demonstration of how the “straight arm” should be used.

The muddy condition of the field proved costly
for Dal when it led to’ Moore injuring his leg. He
remained in the game to the end, but as a result
may not be able to play again this Fall.

As is always expected of Kings, they put up a
clean, plucky game against superior weight and experience, living up to their well won reputation for
good sportsmanship. }

Dr. DeWolfe of Acadia proved an impartial and
efficient referee.

  
   

 

  

THE HOME OF

ATHLETIC GOODS |

  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
  

Dalhousie Sports Advisory
Committee

Col. W. E. Thompson, Convener.

President, A. S. McKenzie (ex-officio).

Alumni Members — Messrs. H. E. Mahon,
G. Fred Pearson, and H. Pike.

Senate Members—Professors Macneill, Murray, and Wilson,

Student Members — Murray Britton, Pres.
D. A. A. C.; F. E. Coster, Secy.-Treas.

D.A.A.C,, and N, A. MacKenzie, Pres.

of the Students’ Council.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

All Dalhousians who made the trip, both players
and supporters, were accorded a splendid reception
by the Kingsmen, and were warmly entertained
while in Windsor.

Charlie Beazley was there with a motor earload
of rooters and, though his cohorts were small in
numbers, they made a mighty noise,

King’s—G. White, Timothy, Jackson, Davison,
Morrison, Teed, MacCoy, Coopen, Goodwin,
Ernst, Norwood, Nelson, Dikee, Sheperd, White.

Dathousie—MclInnis, Haslam, Coster, Langwith,
Crease, Phinney, Moore, McLean, Logan, Baird,
Britton, McOdrum, Sutherland, Tupper Bruce.

MEDS SUCCUMB TO DENTS.
The Dents pulled the Meds teeth in

a highly spectacular ‘‘Football’’ set-to °

(known officially as the second Interfaculty Rugby game), last Wednesday afternoon, and then buried them under a
smothering score of 15-0,

With a heavy scrim and smooth
working half line, the Tooth Pullers
proved that ‘‘Mother Earth’s’’ sub-noral temperature was a symptom of a truly
pathological condition too difficult for
the Medicos to solve, apd crossed the
goal line five times.

The only time that the Meds looked
dangerous was when they captured
Turnbull’s sweater in fragments.

Their stars were Lawrence and
Zinck,

The play-off between Arts and Dentistry should be a thriller.

copy”

Wanderers seconds, though unable

| to cross the Dalhousie Juniors’ line,

won their game on Saturday and with it
the Intermediate City Championship, by
a well placed drop kick, score 4-0.

TITLE PLAY OFF.

The decision of St. F. X. to withdraw
from the Intercollegiate League for ths
year, due tov ity to arrange playing
dates, leaves Dal as winners of the Eastern Section by defeating Kings, At going to press definite arrangements with
U.N.B. for the c ionship play-off
had not been. made, date will like
Ly be Nov. 10,

Wanderers Win Both City
League Championships

Although their scrim held its own
with that of the Wanderers, the Dalhousie backs were outplayed by the fast
Red and Black combination, and, forced
to play on the defensive for the greater
part of the game, the Tigers went down
to defeat in Saturday’s City League
fixture by a score of 6-0.

Right at the kick-off the Wanderers
carried the ball close to the Dal line,
and, greatly to everybody’s surprise,
scored their first try within four
minutes. Then’ the defence stiffened.
Dal players tackled hard and often to
successfully prevent another score, until, following a long kick to touch by
Langwith, they themselves became the
attackers. At this time Kelly McLean’s
aggressive following up was very noticeable, and effective as well.

About two-thirds through the second
half, after holding the play continually
in Dalhousie territory, Ritchie MacCoy
started a short half line combination
play, which gave the ‘‘Red Shirts’’ another try and clinched the game.

Don McelInnes, in his first City
League game in senior company, did
very well at Fullback, while Porter
lived up to his reputation as an outside
half.

Weakness at quarter was very apparent, due to Beaton and Moore, the
Dal regulars, being both laid up by
injuries.

Senior Line-up:

Wanderers—H. Edwards, fullback; Jack Edwards, Temple Lane, Lily, Hunter, halfbacks; Bob
MacCoy, Richie MacCoy, “Red” Campbell, quarter
backs; Studd, Young, Dr, Don Campbell, Hattie,
Schwartz, Hoskings, Armitage, forwards.
~ Dalhousie—McInnes, fullback; M. Haslam, Coster, Porter, Bates, halfbacks; Beaton, Langwith,
quarters; McLean, Logan, Livingstone, Bruce, Sutherland, Jones, forwards.

| Dalhousie Headquarters for
Sporting Goods
We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at 40 Sackville Street. We can

supply you with everything for Sport
Life. Also Pocket Knives, Razors,

Shaving Supplies.

We Stock Dalhousie Jerseys
and Stockings.

Morton & Thomson

 

Pe =
PNA a lt i
8 - - . ; ; ©

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

LEMON EXTRACTS
— © (By I M. Tite)

Dental Prof.—‘Now ask this boy
some questions, so you can hear how he
speaks. ’’

¥l1——-k :—Have you any sisters?’’

 

 

‘*Duckie’’—‘‘ Never again will I take
an impression of anyone with gum in
their mouth.,’’

 

Prof. (in Dental Materia Medica)—
Reading—This drug is prepared like tea
by boiling for ten minutes with water.
‘‘Personally I thought you never boiled
tea.”’

Miss F-rb-s—‘‘You don’t—you boil
the water.’’

FLAPPER SONG.
Delta Kappa Epsilon,
Kappa Gamma Mu,
Pearl pins, gold pins,
Pins enameled blue—
Chi Psi, Delta Phi,
Delta Sigma Nu,
Tea time, toddle time,
Taxicabs for two.—'‘ Ea.,’’

A PROMISING BOY.
First Prof.—There’s a lad with good
stuff in him.
Second Prof.—Let’s follow him;
maybe we can find out where he got in.

GOOD ADVICE.

Excited husband (to doctor over
*phone)—‘‘ Hello, Doctor, my wife has
appendicitis. What shall I do ?”’

Central (breaking in)—‘‘Operator.”’

ON THE SIDE LINE.
Lady—Which end do I get off at ?
Conductor—It’s all the same to me,

lady; both ends stop.

BOY, PAGE MR. GILLETTE.

Nervous Freshman (in English,
stroking his chin)—‘‘This is the forest
primeval.’’

HEARD IN THE BARBER SHOP.
Freshman—‘‘ How long have I got to
wait for a shave ?’’ 3
Barber (looking him over critical
 

 

 

 

 

ly)—‘‘About three years, Sonny.’’

 

SOAP SUDS

It was Sunny Monday at Colgates
and they were snuggled up in the Old
Brown Windsor.’’ May I hold your
Palm Olive ?’’—said the jolly Tar as he
Peared into his Baby’s Own eyes. ‘‘Not
on your Life Buoy’’, replied the little
Fairy, with a Castile look. But he was
full of the Old Dutch, so just for Lux,
he thought he Woodbury a Djer Kiss

Bow Ami

S.C. A. Won Bun Fight

THANKSGIVING CELEBRATION,
LARGELY ATTENDED, WAS
AN UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.

 

The Bun Fight, Thursday night, resulted in quite a triumph for the defending forces. All afternoon the willing
helpers toiled like Trojans, preparing
their defences and a formidable palisade of bread, ham, cake, ice-cream and
other implements of war seemed an inpenetrable barrier.

At five-thirty the attack commenced.
The slaughter was terrible. At five
forty-five the outer barricade was gone
and at six the enemy were hammering
at the inner court. Only by superhuman efforts was the situation saved.
The little crowd of defenders brandishing knives and spoons, won back the
ground, inch by inch, until at last completely routed the attackers were driven across the outer court and forced to
seek refuge in the Great Gymnasium.

However, the conquerors after feasting on the spoils, felt that the true
Christian spirit would ‘be to soothe the
vanquished ones. So they too, under a
flag of truce, sought the Great Gymnasium, where friendly relations were
soon once more established. All manner of rustic games were played, trials
of skill and strength being much in evidence. The remainder of the spoils
were auctioned off and so at the close of
the evening, and on the way home, a
lasting friendship was established.

Many neutrals witnessed the combat
to ascertain that no infraction of international rules of war-fare took place.
Among these were Dr. McKenzie, Dr.
and Mrs. Stewart, Mrs. Munroe and Dr.
Bronson, to whom all feel very grateful.

IN BUSINESS FOR HIMSELF.

Dan Campbell, a graduate of 1920 in
Pharmacy, who has been employed with
Buckley’s in this city since leaving college, is this week commencing a drpg
business of his ow nat 28514 Barrington
Street. ‘“Dannie’’ is well known to a
large number of the students and while
at college he had a splendid record as
a student and practical pharmacist.
He may be assured of the support of

the collegians and thtir best wishes for

success in the new venture. |

 

The Mean Thing!
See tare a ee a nice
i |

iy —My. = you live that far from

i . di
“ ih a : : in a ae
: ae ¢ pens
to A= 2 : €) oe

Lull A. at i aes ae 2. Jt nee
ll 4 ea ie a> ii oD) a - av i
f Tuna - con ak i | eS

[ hs ay (ase it ae
: a
} Pia i! Aa

 

omplexion “i
May—I run five miles every morn
—Topics of The Day’’ Films (hee
, i ws ; ; 7 * e ee
: ‘ ‘ J s e
ee eae = ; io ¥ ;

Pe
i A a4 u

HIGH QUALITY
NOTE BOOKS

If you want note books with superior
paper and strong binding, we have
we have the best.

A Splendid Loose Leaf Note Book
Complete for 65c.

| FAULKNER’S |
H 168 Spring Garden Rd., Halifax |

       
      
  
 

  
  
 

.
| Your Education
is not complete if confined to
printed books and _ lectures.
Visiting the interesting and
popular places in every city
helps a lot. «

    
   
   
 

    
 

We .know of no place more popular
or interesting in Halifax than

 
    

—-—— TH BE ——
| New Green Lantern

    
      

TALLEN’S

THE LEADING BOOKSTORE

 
  

   

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text
Books, Engineers’ Supplies of
all kinds,

Commercial and Society Stationery.
—Waterman’s Fountain Pens—

T. C. ALLEN & CO.

124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S.

    
       
   
   
      
  

R. J. LEARY
"THE CLEANER

Cor. Argyle and Sackville Sts.
eh a fee tame ne

Each ticket entitles you to have a Suit or
Overcoat Sponged and Pressed.

Our Regular Rate is 75¢ a Suit,
_ WE ALSO DO DYEING, DRY-CLEANING, |

° om al :
? , Phone
‘ - ? = = ,
‘ , x
z ’ . a, »
k Aa

    
     
     
   
     
     

 
 
