 

Kl i lal mi | it ae

 

ries a Ho ea

vi al featn 7s ‘

ue
es

Pn o- tee a —— a af

a Pat ee 1 ee = Foe
a” . -¥ PS | Yen x .
a ai bee wa Fe eg a on see

Kea” Fy
a r

»
ms

FOUND ED: 1860. =
| HALIFAX, N: S.." JAN, 2st, “as

ee

a Student Re

in reeeipt, of a ti

iply letter
a on, the. mue

diseuss
2 Student ° Relief. .
6, the present ‘and ims |

roe S.: AB ethe says i ine

a
teat need ot. ‘emergenty relief

Thee Studentgihas vhas, in. the twiin, passed
Keept int the’ age of “the,

tral Europ pean. gow:res grnments ‘are withdrawing: the finandial- ‘aid |
ee ‘that they have been «giving to .refitgre.-ati

“4. th, Moxton,; 1 A,” .ents.in their. countries and’ also bie refines

OL ROAD students, for racial.or other-reasons, have not

béert in receipt of such financial aid; then,
| yooythe stabilized currency. in. most Buropean
countries has made living more a for
thoge-with, limited mep>
At, the shmestime,.

# : r 4 a ; or, on ie i
ez ‘ . , i “ 2 hy
aa oe a " ; : 4 5 7 4 * 4

EDITOR IA L

Ler

ald lik’ 16 point out
that the completion Mi t course by no

a ends; their difficulties as in‘itiany cases
he, refiigee stridents ‘eanyo ot, retin to their

strange country, 5 Ete
Student; Relief ininthica sos matteaaha
on. the grounds that it provides.a-temporary’
‘‘harbour’’ for thosé» whe don’t want’te 6r
can’t find other work and does not give —
it assists any: assurance: or certatiity’

_, Ployinent, inothae Para ea a does inerense ‘of Christianity, aid of Jesus (as we

New. Rcnutiak Staaceante =A theiatioatl a
i The New Brunewick Society: may be soniee ‘i
what.of.a‘sunprise-to inany Ereshimen:’* How
ewan, ye. V endeurt: Ores: and ayo) Skepties wild

“perchance thought that it had evaporated it
Is th still—-peppier than. ever \:adter a
' ene Taps. Exerys: studgnt from. ,

A oy Erupsyick ustenau oly belangs.and ta”
rove how ow jally lucky ,you,are-. ite exeoutive, 7
Pees. you, | to, , threw care fo-the, winds and join,-\

the ‘merry throng dinner. andydanee «at sthe; ..

“Green die dys ”» on Monday Evening, eg 4

ilatr'y “the! y-sixth, at “even. a ‘clotk.

| fen) Tobal Sorts of ea ipnd: i ip

lier’ ptaibed® <8 Tt fot hh at
Oh here’ 8.10 ‘ga0d old. er thames
Drink her down! eine gprs
. Oh here’s to good old Brunswick
* Drie her’ dowli !
“Oh, here” s to good old ‘Brunswick
Of the Country she's the pick’

"Oh, here’ 8 to good ‘old Brunswick,’
Drink. her down 1”

oF baleen gal A | ping sola,
very teal in | some repean.

Gage: As to. kussia, 1 have ‘eonelided. 3

after some thought and much discomioi that Ae

el. 1

student’ relief work here is, very niet Se
good. . ‘Prue, the ‘funds may assist’ Comm naa 3
ists but why not, if | they ieed it. “Yet, most 9
of all I believe Russia needs a new ra n | a
and help given to thése who need it without)”

ulterior motives and teneed ik a

 

ue he. = 4 ee. . a te t : |
ete ok ie ais a on the ‘ganda will somewhere’ , § | ome’ ci
“eg or eee vem ve both ‘th give a .
4 .s oh En te wt mera Bas ad ee a oe caare : int )
; - i
2, ,
Py i.4 “
‘ ea
t ny . 4 as ¥ c . ote “a “a j 4 i a a ad
= anY i rs Le dent ’ ie : Spe et “%
* i " a Sa %., oon
ma Fe Sipe i ss
rite af a = a
; == i ee
ees — r
— =e

 

 
= . ~ on 2 a OP ae MG eo Ad GS = ae ™ <u = rt os : == rs
' GOP A LP EE a Re TS I LS a NE ORT EE i ee ey EL a eae
eae ¢ wo ie ‘ey ve "be he ‘= i we + eer sie Be ves ae. ples e-*. a: Pa POE ;
ITTIS i r Zlel , : ; ; , : Y , os al ‘eer? S40 a ie ee ; ij
(lee fe. PE eign SP mam renee. eve rene omeee — pk eae '
2 ae Sewer Seer on -quapunaane coat sete ete e, ee oe eet ee i = - ~ - * =. : ’
; = oops a SS ee ten elie
x os RATS paar awa ereratamnme. Se ene joemaminn ane cts a eee <p
od € v * . NT ee

THE DEBATING TEAMS + 3535,

SELECTED”

Trial debates for the sglection of the teams
which are to represent Dalhousie at the forthcoming debates with McGill and U.N B. were
held at the Munro. Room on the evenings of
January 12th and 13th. The increased number, both of those attending, and of those taking part in the trials, and the keener spirit of
competition manifested, may be taken as
sufficient evidence that there is, throughout
the University, a revived interest in debating.

The subject chosen for the purpose of the
trials was :— ‘‘Reselved that there should be
an embargo on the export of unmanufactured
pulpwood from Canada.’’ This is the question
which will be debated with McGill within the
next few weeks.

Twenty-three men competed in the trials
and a surprising amount of debating talent
was displayed. Although only six could be
chosen, many of the other competitors showed
that they were promising timber for future
debating teams.

Owing to the large number taking part, the
speeches were limited to ten minutes, and
each evening the debate continued for over
two hours. This method of conducting trials
constitute quite a severe test for the steadiness and self-control of each speaker.

On the first evening the debate was opened
by H. Baird, a promising aggressive freshman. He was followed by one of the veterans
of last year’s debating seaon, Avery Neweombe, who spoke fluently in support of the
negative. ,

Andrew Hebb, who came next, when he
acquires more poise, will be a convincing
speaker He made the original suggestion
that we could save the wood situation if we
would only put our heads together.

Jack Campbell possesses a particularly
pleasing manner and his speach was well delivered. ’

Jarvis MacCurdy has a magnetic personality which compels attention. He spoke
quietly, confidently, and convincingly.

| MacGregor Grant had lost none of the well| modulated eloquence which earried him to vie
. tory last year. | re
| Bertram Moore is 4 forceful speaker and
gives promise of becoming and _ eloquent
preacher. Pictou County will never lack a
- gilver-tongued political orator when Rod Mac
| _Leod is around. |

| | A. D. MacKinnon has a sweetly reasonable

| manner of speaking. Owing to the lateness

| of the hour, his speech was given at a par
= ticularly trying time. The same is true of

¥; Arthur. Jardine, the last speaker of the even
ing, who would have delivered:a much better .
speech had he not been so self-conscious.

John Dunphy the first speaker of the fol=
ha lowing evening was confident in his demean
our, fluent’ and clear in his diction
___ Fred Bissett, who spoke with his usual
"_-yerve, is an adept at making the most of an

<s an

 

   
 
 

= Ss a oa oT ame ii “ " - Bs | ‘eS ‘ * nN i Rah
i ha : > j ‘ - ie . if i 3 ® . a8, > Hea
j= Y Tae cs “i i y foe.” ~ ‘ Jad ac. 4 = — - 7s <a ae. 3
Li Age f eo ra FL eS ae a . he °+ 2 weds f ry * i= es am ie we? it : ib to = fae Stee Ye
Yr wi mea | iy = =. . ie ~— To ee, a ae rs te. 9 = See =
f Fl cares ae i Nea ores Lia" hie s, Bed | Fait eeu Bie 1 dj joo SR = =
be - * y eae. “eS =— 4 ; rs ‘ 7 5

    

   

| ime Lre .  %

as
eal

Sn eae

— Bold Chanticle

7 Warmey wilh the

Telly av. in his lustd* cro

of manner, being unhurried, reasonable, confident.

Tact and fluency, with a fine power of
adapting himself to cireumstances, characterize Herbert Davidson on the platform and
elsewhere.

Vernon Pearson was quiet and controlled.
He gave evidenee of being a practised
speaker. |

Fred Forbes distracted attention by keep
ing his hands too constantly in motion,
though he handled his arguments skillfully.n

The lawyer’s art of arranging material
was noticable in the well delivered speech of.
Russell Snodgrass | :

Gerald Godsoe has a pleasing platform appearance and his ideas were clearly e¢x- |

pressed. | . a Bt
E. B. Fairbanks walked about consider
ably but he has a good voice and shows pro
mise. Though he spoke clearly Elliott Russell
was someewhat lacking in animation.

Stirling Brown was earnest and forceful.
handling his arguments well.

T, A. Hockin’s speech was characterized by
a steady stream of fact and logic, though he —
will make a spirited speaker. me

The last speaker A. B. Atwood was quiet
in his manner and practical in his arguments’

The following six men were chosen by the
judges to uphold the hononr of their Universitv:—to debate against McGill—MaeGregor: ~
(trant, (leader) Avery Newcombe, and Fred ~

To debate against the University
Brunswick :—W. F, Darby (leader),

: =e
= * ud
‘4

 

Jarvis.

7 ' f * : =e 2 ae
lia? ditt ie ts
Fiat 7 ; p

_ : ’ | Tiina: :. - .
9 , il iW Vv Vu - /¥ 7 tater oo : i _— a.
me, ss &, on a Pies ah ne Y y == = :
z 7 ies c ‘ee ed ~
io 4 r aa te | Ul > ; ee

ae 3
vb ah
fi sz a
i i

 
  
 
 

of New Bingo immediately fell for ‘her, . - 
  
  

   
   
  
 

&

tty

h

new wine of t
ae

is

Oneé more we are in the period of New
Year Resolutions: The commerce students
are out for a record this year. The resulta
of the Xmas examinations were very favor
 

  
   

able due to the amount of hard work done 
throughout the term, or was it the number
system ? |

We have been very fortunate in obtaining
the services of Mr. Vincent McDonald who
is now teaching Commercial Law for Mp.
Judge Wallace. The Judge will be unable to
attend his lectures for some little time. We
are all glad to have Mr. McDonald with us
and we hope to profit from his teaching.

‘The Codmmerde ‘lhockey team had their
first practice on Friday night. There were

-geveral new comers on. the .ice and. most of

last year’s players. We feel sure that under a good manager we can turn out a fairly
fast team. Bt Node andi tap ee at ae a

The. new rink is a great success and. is well
patronized by commeree, Sammy cannot
understand what is to bé done with the rink
except on Wadnesday and and Saturday. . He
does not realize-that he should: be studying.

_all the rest of the time. 3

Ted says it may only cost ten. cents to get

in but it é6sts a good deal more before you

get homie, 5 Fe oate ie hr:
The walking was quite-slippery on Friday,

one of the girls from the Hall «slipped. but

Some say it is customary to kiss the girl

       
    
   

   
   

     
  

a. be \
+ ; ok
. » . yi t Yi
ji : ,
— ” oo - - ae ae >? ere)
Fels cae Se bi the ont ‘iat, iets A! Se af te SU eS, fi
i” A i wP 3}
$-- f i ~ Fe ie ;
betes! “a. a ie ae
Fe =

 

m*

= a ba “The numbing frost -is harsh. and eruel:
 go¢iablé and‘amicable were: Mrs. Copp, .Mrs. »-You long-for Spring’s.loved fragrance mild, it woke Se ks
WE EXCEL Oe ies: ve ae

 Miirray’ Maeneill and*Mrs.-Harold Theakston.

 

L

 pumch. » ~The chaperones, who proved very

cae” eRe rem

‘hoped
' their successful efforts in futuke years. 
    
 
  
 

Pat oss

           
      
   
  
 
  
  

‘Ee eee ea The a fi ey ie a Uae fo as wey Fa 7, 2 7. mt , r F
x a wee me ta Fs * fh oe ‘ par +a Wiel he eek iS We Ts. oe
i y on a Fe ,a> fede 1. eo a ‘ r wilt <4 a” = re "
fe > v 7 4 A . th ' r — , e wy >" ”
é « . =. ae : ‘ i mc Ae te
' vs “is - SND ate a
Ee ~_ —
=n A a a ee oe el er ee — - - ay
; ~— we Wa em
Mas AwoT ec ° wie ue
- —
— a - Pema tee —_
tere Rete SE Re RES me ow aa ea 2m ae & aise cient es, Senn = - ~~. +
— ee SS SES eS at PESOS T EO SELES Ot veer tepiegmer

6 pn al

  
  

aa ‘
. ~ > _ *: r
aN orteed nae bo feta
. ‘a

   

a * ed ak ‘ “SA ’ -- '
SS SSS Ahn oN Ag? OVITAGAG FHT
™, grat ita — 7 SS ae ‘ : te <@i j 82

+ . . o
a had BAP TES asOU x ' 3/5 y
bgvha &

r
mS a fi f “4 + 6 ¥ om
i ) ALY aii. Pe ty {] “Y he}!

aoe

a 3: ’ ro4 "6,

t of Sts one

NE
~ ‘ ~ . * .
ré€ : ~\ . ~~ * id's "*.% Of a Ain . eae ff i :
% ~. My io 7. "e eo Baty ne PTAA? S Lae * 8 a rt
HO See »%
_ .
‘ a . :
4 *° “ry ‘ os t'y* ‘\
. . BaP? 3 } ft ~ Ps t+ : %, '
« “ ' | he beh iY!’ ESJQUSDL) BT ova
35 ‘ Le 4 PQ bhcs
2 = . ’ re ,
~ () & fil . $e fated, ee were AE mob 4 f
ata ts BYU Abls j t ; *)
. o fom * ‘ I i 4) ; ii
ip
P . “rr v .
2 : Het? "evin { . Ys ry
O ‘ } > ; fy mest? ste apn at
; * ‘ “ad , Ashi idles Vs
. _ at ‘ .

*

njay— youshaye inet) |
dager was whiige sivyessy SEH RNS
socially and they sghenleh keel welt Pepald for SoS SSS
their pains. At this. big: show they Splen — :
didly. carried off two firsts. The first to be
staged by their society in many years, and
the first after the Christmas holidays.

The dance was.held in the University gymnasiuim on, Wednesday evening, January 14th.
About three, hundred, voung people attended,
not:being' able to resist the inviting and tempt:
ing adver'tisements.geattered. “so noticeably
about the college? Iuildings.-. It pays. to
advertise. sshasiom hall looked very
pretty with the ~bihek - and, gold streamers... 5.
artistically. arranged overhead: The. origin- tn | |

 
 

  

bree the élevated orehestra stand and its’ 7 ,

méehanical decorations, in'the center of the * : . '*} | Y

rooin..was pleasing to. the *majarity: of thse “2° \ tS CIGARE a: ES oS
present. “The sprays.of.: ever.-green, also = ba le ———
es arrange on, the walls hy means t ‘Mild and |

of lining. poles and leveling. rods,. brightened : \ FY, ine” =

the appéaranee ‘considerably. Neither were kD ira Fine Le |

the two attractive ‘sitting out places’ over- N » |i

looked. Attention,was ‘drawn to the red eur-. 7 20 2 $

tain several times, ‘The !attravtion here may \ for < he
have been the brilliant gold letters Engineers, \ |

1925, or it may: have been the persistent ap- \ Ue ?
pearance of-@érry’s head. throvigh the por- : .
tals. The programmes were also a specimen
of engineering methods. It must be remarked that many of those; using’. tltese —programmes appreciated Having a suitably stiff
cover to write on. *Bhé design on the outside was a copy~of:the-verigineer’s pin, the
familiar crest with the transit thereon. The
Péftesliiments were very,.tasty,.as was also the

 

/ ; , i oa So bo
LLL dade ’

 
  

(//Z 4

WT ddd hddede SSSLLTSTAAMTASTADAA AD SDLLALSS AS LSA TS SY)

      

Dalhousie » i. fi
Students “09°.

LET’S GO SWIMMING

 

‘Outside, the winds are :-raging wild, -.

  
  
  
     

For camping joys—for swimming pool. . Vea ie gow ot oe
bigs oy Students’ Loose Leaf . Books and
-other Students’, Supplies of

o ‘ OP petite. oe 644555

‘The dance has everything to be’said in-its ise ay fhe, Bat.
favor—even to giving the ‘young ladies’ an “Why sooo in vain ; just go down town—
opportunity to exhibit their, new Christrhas . ane. 2 8 eon reachod— Fin up some
gifts, for the dresses were pretty—and it is.

? | Magy fs Beco ie ws
Then down some more—you cease to-frown,
that the engineers ‘will continue —

Por Winter ’s gone with all its cares.
| GRATED a . 160 GRANVILLE STREET

    

' At onee you hear delightful sounds
Gay laughter, water’s gurgling swish,
The soul of Spring has broken bounds
And, presto, brought to you your wish.

Mhhhdddiddiisiiisiisdisdiddilittddidilililillliliiiiiiiiiiiiin

 

 

Let a oe
Phinneys Limited
Equip

But, perhaps you doubht, and lightly say,
‘*Tt’s nothing but a fairy tale,’’

for Class Jewelery

Gifts Just try it gi
‘ y it girls, come down next day, |
a To give you fun, the “Y” ‘ll not fail. YOUR HOCKEY TEAM
Sweaters and Stockings in “Dal” col
~ should be ordered now, +o ensure ineie bi
Silver ing here when the season opens.

A full range of Hockey Equipment is on display in Sporting Goods De

Specials Terms To All Clubs

Come in and get our prices.

PHINNEYS LIMITED

The Latest Novelties From New Mechanical

The Worlds Best Markets

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED
. DIAMOND MERCHANTS
HALIFAX

Larynx
Helps Dumb Speak
(Morning Chronicle)

No doubt there will be a record sale at
Shirreff Hall.

 

A

at Nee

. o=
-_—
é —

  

SSIISTITIITSSS ES ISS SS SSSA

LiL hhhe

Vithitithtittth,

| Frank M. O’Neill & Co. Ltd. |

  
  

 

“

454 BARRINGTON ST HALIFAX, N.S }

   

 

 

 

wy
_ i
La :
NM
hi
|

7
‘ é
ah
a
we
it
j
ny
]
-F

et
 

mh
i hy by ak
7. x
eld

——_wnion feed,

“of angels,

It took Ruby in
Crocker in the thumb, and we wonder where

  

Shirretf Hall

During the holidays a very beautiful
photogravure of Rheims Cathedral was added to our art gallery in the main hall. It is
a great addition and much admired.

Karly in the week the House met in solemn
conclave #0 consider the world and to choose
a reshie representative. Asa result, ‘[‘aT
MacLeod will henceforth lend the weight of
her wisdom to the House Committee.

Another netable decision was made, that of
subseribing for four months to the ‘‘ Morning
Chronicle’ and the ‘‘Evening Mail’ It
goes without saying that these papers contain the best eross-word puzzles. Ten cents
is the price each one must sacrifice on the
altar of higher education. K. Vickery moved
that Olive McKenna be made collector, saying earnestly: ‘‘I never saw anyone collect
the way she does. Whatever she goes after,
she gets.”’

The first floor, East end especially, are delighted now that they no longer hear the
flippety-flop, clippety-clop, of Mrgaret
MacKay’s and Allison MeCurdy’s bedroom
slippers. Whether or not they banded togcther in desperation, and gave each a new
pair as a Christmas present, we don’t know.
At any rate, quiet is once more assured, and
all are rejoicing.

Does anyone know what happened to
Harriet Roberts’ dome? It is true that she
had a birthday on Monday, and was seen flying along the hall, madly pursued by her
two bosom friends, with more than customary determination on their faces. But, know
ing their love for the appropriate, we can see
no reason why they should make such an
elevated attack. Harriet, prompted by her
generous nature, offers the explanation that
she slipped of her own free will, and ent her
head on the radiator. This also we take with
the proverbial grain of salt, knowing well
that no normal daughter of Eve would voluntarily difigure herself. So the melan
choly incident remains a mystery ; only the

~ pesult is evident, which all who run may see,

if they pull aside the raven curtain.
Test Thursday the second floor had a reand stunt party, and later, to
quote Harriet Morrisey, ‘‘singing like a band
’’ they serenaded the third floor.
Friday, the third returned the compliment,
and what depths of ardour did they reveal !
Unfortunately, just before rendering a choice

lyrie dedicated to Arley Mac., they were

madly routed by those who had previorsly

been serenaded.
Infection has been running riot in the Hall,
the heel and Margaret

Jehi Remin.

" — Dit el
fe et t ae yy Sa oe

a os . ory Tape ee - Pe "
Cae eal ee Se wwe Peri mw
ee 8 ee ee ee
= UaRe ‘ .
dinecnicacttcapeniniealemepemapenints
ee .
Mock Parliament
, i a*

 

 

The General. Election for the. Mock Parliament of the Dalhousie Law School, which
takes place on January 21st., promisses to be
the most bitterly contested in the history of
the Institution.

Three enthusiatie Conventions were held
last week by the Liberals, Conservatives and
Labor-Socialists, to elect Party Leaders and
(ommitteemen. {

The Students are glad to know that Colonel
W. E Thompson has again consented to act
as Governor-General and Professor A. L.
MaeDonald will be the Speaker.

Althorgh the Liberal Party has lost considerable part of their heavy artillery from
the front benches, they do not lack for followers and still have a number of Demosthenes
amongst them to uphold the principles of the
Grand Old Party.

Horace B. Dickey, as Leader, was the unanimous choice of the Liberal Convention. A.
F. MacDonald was appointed Chief Whip
and a committee was chosen to draft the
Party’ Platform, composed of Gorge Morrison, John W. Longley and Walter Darby.

The Conservative followers rallied to their
Convention in large numbers, burning with
Party zeal end drunk with anticipation of
coming victory ? 1 \

V I.. Pearson was elected as Leader : Leonard Fraer, F. W. Bissett and Jack Campbell
were appointed as a Platform Committee;
and the Whips selected were William Gunn,
Fred W. MeInnes and Norman Blanchard.

The Labor-Socialists had a small but uproariots meeting. Ray Gushue was chairman
and opened the meeting with the Praecipe
Writ, for which, amidst wild acclaim, he was
ehosen as Leader, and hailed as the LaborSocialistie Moses. |

His disciples Rex Moore, Phil Lewis and
H. Huggins were ordained to assist him in
formulating the Labor-Socialist’s code Rov
Wilson and Gerald Teed were appointed to
encourage the faint-hearted and uphold the
feeble-kneed. on

The Labor-Socialist Convention became at
times tumultuous. This it is alleged was due
to the indignant protests which arose from
many of the proselytes to the Labor-Socialist
faith. who had eome to the Convention !aboring under the misapprehension — that their
Tender was to dispense free beer.

According to the’ general outlook, neither
command a matority of the. House. It is
therefore to be hoped that the Lbor-Socialist
Party will adopt a settled poliey of support
for one Party, for it is only in this way that
the business of the TTouse ean be successfully
earried on and the members.made familiar
with actual Parliamentary procedure

 

 

a we ® Are y% + mY, Sas! CT 7 on a;
i. fai we ne AT re wy eet J ty ’ . & F = rapper aes ’ le "ey
, ; : ' >
a ~ — > 7 ‘ - aa
a .
GAZETTE
—__ Ce
poten den aetantan ——

THE SHIPS OF BEDFORD
(To J. H. W.)

They once built ships at Bedford,

Long long years ago,
But time has blurred the traces
Like footprints blurred by snow.

Proud ships knew birth at Bedford
And sailed the seven seas, ..-But prouder ships met death there.
By battle and disease.

The home of ships was Bedford,
(The grave of ships as well!)

But the ships that grew at Bedford,
What stories they could tell!

The stocks are gone from Bedford,
The builders all are dead.

Their stories too, are buried

In the sawdust rived bed.

Yet, winter nights at Bedford,
In the erack of frost and snow,
We hear the phantom hammers
Building ships of long ago. —_°
F. W.

CABBAGES

The Infernal Council paused in its deliberations; there was that in the air which was
foreign to Hell, and foreign to its atmosphere:
an intangible whisper mingled with the melancholy sulphur fumes, that was mightily dis
tracting. The Earthborn members of the
council looked uneasily at one another; the
fiends looked uneasily at the Earthborn;
Satan himself with an expression that boded
il! for the Earthborn who should forget the
terms on which he had entered the Damned
Aristocracy.

The rumour was mortal, of the earth and
of green things growing. Six Earthborn there
were on the council, and their minds were
carried back through the years. To Nero came
the thought of the flowers Poppea had held
under his nose while he fiddled to the burning of Rome. Cain recollected sadly the
smell of the dandelions the day he killed
Abel; and Euclid, with a snifflle recalled the
scent of the wild apple blossoms in the Convocation Hall, when he had won High First
in Geometry. .

Less vividly, and more accurately, did the
perceptions of the three remaining Earthborn inform them of the rumors of the air.

‘‘Hay’’, said Boccaccio.

‘“New mown hay’’, added King David,

‘Cabbages’, said Bismarck, triumphantly.
They agreed, that, it was something of an ex
eeeding greenness; they awaited in trepida- ~
tion the outcome, for patently the thing: was ~
approaching And now a scuffle was plainly |

Continued On Page 5

 

Pine Hill Post

“THE CONTEST FOR ROOM 8’’—This
is not the title of a scenario, depicting adventurous sleuths seeking strange secrets, nor
yet that of a novel describing the subterfuges of gerrymandering politicians.  Although it includes elements from both kinds
of literature it is a true story. How Room 8
was declared vacant due to the departure of
Garth Toombs and Alex Murchison that they
mnst reside nearer to the morning classes.
How this historic chamber was sought after
by the denizens from all parts of the building How Art Ross surveyed it and got its
elevation. How George MacIntosh passed
sleepless nights thinking about it. How Seymour almost forgot that he was engaged to
go to the Engineers dance when it was reported that the decision would be announced
the next day, and how Edwin Johnston when
he learned that he was one of the successful
candidates became overheated in his haste to
move in his belongings and caught a severe
cold—Copies of this severe tale may be had
by applying to the Dean of the Residence.

 

James Fay has recently discovered that
there is a University organization known as
the Delto Gamma. He wants to know why he
isn’t a member. We refer this question to
Shirreff Hall. ‘

Few people know why the Hawaiian musical instrument is termed the ‘wicked’ ukelele.
The fellows on the second floor Annex who
have heard Bingo Harrison playing it at 1.20
A.M. know the reason. (

We understand that Charlie MacLennan
has been describing his first ‘love’, to an interested audience of young people at Park St.
It-must have been one from Acadia to whom
he was refering
" ‘Jigger’, Jarvis and Herbie are Pine Hill’s
contribution to the debating teams. We feel
confident that our honour will be well sus
7

tained.
To celebrate the occasion our hilarious
Herbie has provided himself with a ‘Tuxedo’.
In this ease also we are confident that, in
wearing it, he will be a graceful ornament to
the drawing room and the dancing floor.
‘Jigger,’ ever a pessimist; warns him to
guard his trousers from envious vandals.
During the Engineer’s Dance, Maurice
Armstrong happened to mention to his partner that he came from Pine Hill. “‘‘Oh, I
knew that’? she replied, ‘‘You have Presbyterian feet”. ‘‘This’’, says Maurice, ‘was
the most unkindest eut of all’’. |

. Since the Christmas holidays we have had
a ‘pool’ table installed in the Residence
ostensibly with the purpose of providing
recreation for the ‘Troops’ but in reality in
order to keep John Morrison and Sam Profit

Trip to Europe
WANTED IMMEDIATELY

Men and Women Undergraduates

We want to appoint now a few wide awake men and women under-gaduates from all faculties of Dalhousie University, preferably
those in senior years, to repregent us in connection with our Historical and Educational Tours to the British Isles, France, Belgium and i
; ;

Holland next June.

5 Days

paid for.

oesoeioefe. fovfoeoefoefoefoofoe gen foed

ook

in at nights, ,

Charlie Johnson visited the ‘Island’ during
the Holidays and ever since he has been attempting to sing, ‘‘My Bonnie Lies Over the
Ocean’’, ath

Ted Cumming ‘has received a photograph
from his last summer's girl, ‘somewhere in
Quebec’. It is not generally known You
needn’t say anything about it. Of course,
everybody has heard about the one Frank
Archibald received.

The Pine Hill Cat wants to know the name
of the woman who is after Bill Byers. _ Bill
is losing his appetite; he has a worried look
and hasn’t ventured out of the Residence ex
‘cept to classes, since late last Wednesday

night. \ /
| ‘* Apostle ’

Shirreff Hall

 

 

| . \
3 for the Skating we do night and day
H for the Hair that is fast bobbed away.
I for the Ink How.we sling it around!
R for the Rules, which have proved themselves sound,
R for the Ragtime, which tickles our feet,

E for the, Evenings, when ‘‘He and I’’

meet. } |
F for the ‘‘Firsts,”’ that we all gather
in (?) ¢
—F for more ‘‘Firsts,’’ which we try
hard to win! ;

H for the Hunger we feel before dinner,
A for the Ardour we have to grow thinner..
L for the Larks, carried on late at night, —
L for our Lioks, we're some beauties, all

right!!!

IN PARIS AND
IN LONDON

Apply in writing immediately giving year and faculty to W. H.
Henry, Limited; 286 St. James St., Montreal.

 

5 Days |

Those appointed will find work congenial and well )

 

 

Continued From Page 4
to be heard without the door.

Satan smiled; his fears were allayed. He
could see through a wall and around a corner, :
and the whole thing was plain to him. King
David could see around the corner, but not
through the wall, which was where Satan
laid over King David. qi)

‘Bring her in’, Satan called, to the the
escort (a jackass on night-duty).

‘Her?’ Cried (as one man) King David
and Boceaccio, alarmed. ‘Is it a woman? We |
never did like women’. Walls shook; infer- i
nal plaster fell. Then, proudly independent . fe i
of the escort (he had in eryptie characters |
stamped upon his forhead the device class 26),
who humbly followed, and royally scornful of

her bruises, she faced the Damned Council: a on
Shirreff Haller. a
‘I was right’, said (as one man) Bismarck, i

- Boceaccio and King David. But Nero, Cain a

and Euclid had ineautiously been betrayed |
into fond and sentimental sad reflections, and sweet thoughts; it was unforgivable; and as
one man they too spoke, but it was to doom 4
her to the lowest possible pit in the establish- 4
ment. a | Ms
Nero's thought of a bouquet, Cain’s of
dandelions, Euclid’s of wild apple blossoms, =
in’ connection with the advent of a Shirreff
Haller, may possibly be explained—on theground of perfumes. But who will account
for King David’s idea, and Boceaccio’s, of =
new mown hay—and Bismarck—who would =

dare to account for such an accurate, sensi: ©
tive guess, as this? aes,” a ee mg
‘Cabbage’, said Bismarck triumphantly |

A ; <a oe 7

 
to, the fact that i, ioe cof the, College. Dyild
“only be open very ‘slightly;

To opel
continuous, gentle eurren
“of the 100

P some Of
Loose, eyclone about our ears.

  

. —a* ay —« — - - — sonar aaaee ~ «
Gio wae °-¢ AA eh me meager ere —— ——_
es Windows + And So Forth as

 

and. ‘‘ Ventilation”, attention..was called, te

the unpleagant . nd, nhealthy Yate da on of
the otzordbchs oe Bak. Lasrvalam, Ad ps0 8

ings. there, is no effective “Ventilation ‘whatever.

It new remains but to add a few obser vations and some _ practical suggestions, in
the hope that, the latter may appear Treason:
able enough to merit adoption.

To begin with, then, it is obvious that
where no special ventilating system exists, we
must have recourse to the judicious we oi
wnidows, doors and transoms, as far as may
be convenient or practicable.

~The judicious use of windows, however, is
tar removed from the present: practice, which
might be called ‘‘whirlwind ventilation’,

You know what happens. The classroom
is allowed: to become unbearably. stuffy ; then
someone throws a-window or two wide..open,
letting ina young’ hurrieane which violently
disturbs‘ the: atmosphere of the room, chilling
it several degrees in next to no time.

The girls shiver in their summer dresses.
The boys turn up their coat collars. Someone complains, and once more dll the windows
are shut ‘up: tight.
~ Ajlow ‘ine, then, ‘to!make Suggestion Number One, for ‘the Usesof Windows: In order
to obtain eontinuots and even ventilation,
with’ as little draft as possible, let us open
‘all the windows, at the top, and all the time,

except wheii very severe weather makes win
dow verfilation impossible.

If all the windows~were used, each need
even ‘if only a

fraction of an inch in eold or windy. weather.
y windows at the top’ would ensure a
t.in the upper part |

‘sufficient to carry: away at least
vitiated air, without letting

If only we let the ar air out at the: top

NOTICE
it your tickets for

Just a week to get
the Lina Dance... You can’t afford to
miss the best dance of the season.

For tickets see—

C. H. W. Sedgewick, Arts ’25

Remi Benait, Engineering

G. Godsoe, Arts ’26

Albert Smith, Arts 28

S. A. Morton, Med. ’26

J. Merrit, Med. '28

A. Tupper, Dent.
~ C,N. Bissett, King’s
W. Richardson, Pine Hill
+f a Pearson, Law.

 

—_—
In two Me a daotL, bile ah pris SPR ets ih

 
  
 
 

Se ae a co Se oe ee .ew ere

A A —~» SSS eee

of-the-reem, -( where the heat €

he doors and _window babs Bis a through
aires ‘and crannies everywhere, —

eatin fig’ ‘drafts: ‘oi ‘chifting the’ ‘root:

- Title ekperimeritation | would SoUn. A sy

“how ee ah window” was ‘required to keep
any particular room continuously ventilated
without drafts, in almost any kind of
weather. ‘

When the weather behaves itself better
will be soon ‘enough to ‘think about leaving
windows . open. at. the. bottom, during class
haurs, but it, would be a good. plan, —and this
Suggestion Number Two—to open a window
at the bottem. ‘for 4 minute or two “between
class houns.,even, in cold weather. We haye
the assurance of Doctor Grenfell and other
authorities on, the,subject, that cold never did
anyone any, ‘harm. It .j is sitting s still in a
draft that does the damage. —

‘‘ And thirdly,?’ as the preachers. say, I
should like to. suggest that a door left open
or ajar is an excellent ventilator. But perhaps the:adoption of this practice would lead
to a Babel-of: lecturers trying to shows: 4 each
other down

~The fourth ‘and’ last Suggestion is, that
when a room is provided with. a transom
above the door, the transome should be: left
open: at all times: I liave been’ in rooms
on the top floor of the Arts Building, - 4

which the white mice from a adie

would have turned up their toes and died.

Apparently no one has. penetrated the hidden |

mystery of ‘‘the little glass door.’
Yes, Tadies and’ Gentlemen, “Tes: ‘worse to

be smothering than’ ‘hungry or thirsty.” But ;

‘of course it’s almost as bad to be ‘‘stabbed’’.
as thé popular ‘Mr. Sigg’ would: have -it, ; ‘by
a sudden blast of cold air in, a- hot room. So

let’s remember always,’ that ‘we’ can: ’ ‘have
fresh “air, ‘withdut ‘diseomfort , ‘by ‘ making“ R
judicious use of the means “ ventilation at 'f

he
i bY

our disposal.
But the chief rule, is, in! the | words ‘of
Jiggs’s contemporary, Jt “For the. love of
Mike, use Senet ‘i
pial B. . ;

 

 

 

Bob Johison’s
Two Barber Shops
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

MAJESTIC THEATRE BUILDING AND
COR. GEORGE AND BARRINGTON STS.

————

Dun’t Neglect Your Appearance ||

 

ve

‘| athletic accomplishment

 

TO OL Le y

 sicmomtal ar

“3 SPRING GARDEN ROAD”
S-—-4 atrsonos) eisateG Ja
Headquarters for Dal. Boys

 
    
 

. - A splendid stock of furnishings of.all
kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats. and.

~ Caps, Gaberdine Rainepats and Suit-:
cases and wig , |

     
 
  

   
 
  
  

“ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. ee 4

ie. oho

DON’T FORGET WE'RE. ON THE
CORNER’

\ Fi rom SIX ‘to o Sixty,--
‘the Doys who thrill with desire fer greater are the {boys whe 
HIP
» MENT

piek

 

“a BROS 0. ao

FOR, ANYTHING ‘You NEED. an es
EVERY LINE OF SPORT |

    

“~- +
4 ‘
LLL

     
  

hhh LLL, iL LLALL LA CAL MLLLAL4 MMLMLAMLA LALLA th “Zi LALLA LLihh WZ S/) hd.
(NEW. COMEORT. is da
FOR THE eves]

   

   

   

di yond

ee Ae \

tlre easil

   

A pair aes our Soft Lite al or
Most ronny for eves th

  
   
 

  
 

% ft
o~ !

“Ses me and See bettie

  
 

ad

H. W CAMERON
SIGHT SPECIALIST ©
315 Barrington Street.

3 Doo South of i St.

‘PHONE an Se

WAAL Mh Ahhh hithihbdh

    
   
   
   
   

 

‘HIGH CLASS BARBER

Up to date Shop, with four chairs,
and first class barbers m attendance.

Special Bobbing Parlor for Ladies

ae. Publicover
a8 siti Garden rant

 

 

sie Wins in Hockey | and Basketball —

Dal. Defeats Crescents, 5—2

4 on

The Dalhousie Senior team were easy winners over the Crescents in Dal’s second game
of the City League series at the Arena on
Friday night was probably the best of the
geason and if Dunlop’s crew continue their
present standard, they will certainly be at
the top of the list

As in the Dartmouth game, Dal. was in the
cellar at the end of the first period: Bates,
Haslam and Creighton hammered Hanrahan,
the Crescent’s goalie, with shots during this
period but were unable to pas him. The Dal.
nets did not receive so many attacks, although pretty combination on the part of the
opposing forwards enabled them to beat
Lewis for two counts. The city team played
a much neater brand of hockey in this period
and probably deserved their lead.

Dal’s performance in the second, was all
that could be desired ; from beginning to end,
they played their opponents off their feet.

Shortly after the face off, ‘‘Nutty” Wilson
took the rubber down the ice for one of the
most sensational plays of the evening; carrying the puck to within a few feet of the nets,
but at an impossible angle to score, he passed
to Haslam, who, in a pretty shot, scorde Dal’s
first tally.

The Crescent’s were now for a time blocked
up within their own black line and could not
break away while the Dal. outfit were keen
for another score; and it was now from a
mix-up in front of the goal that Fabie tied
the score for Dal.

Play still continued in the enemy’s territory and from a face-off in front of their goal
the irrepressible Fabie again slammed the
rubber in for the Yellow and Black’s third
counter Territory was now slightly more
even, but Haslam, on a long shot from the
wing bagged the puck for the fourth tally.
Period ended 4—2.

Again in the final stage, the edge was Dal’s,
but Hanrahan was playing a stellar game and
was allowing no scoring. However, after
seven minutes of play, Haslam passed to
Bates, who scored the fifth and last goal. For
the rest of this period the Tigers continued
to fight hard—seemingly not satisfied with
their lead—but the Crescents were out to prevent further scoring and did so.

It would be impossible to choose a star on
the Tiger’s line up. The forward line of
eourse figured most. prominently and their

- combination was good. The defense too did

their work well and were also seen in some
sensational ruhes. Lewis in goal, was by no

means idle ,in some stages of the game and

behaved in veteran fashion Z
oe. mii sig

ae

mnt forget

   

CRESCENTS— Hanrahan, . g; " Ratehford
and Ahern,.d; M. Bates, ¢; Murphy and Butter, W; Goodhew, Morrison, Ryan, Subs.

DALHOUSIE—Lewis, g; Dunlop and Wilson, d; F. Bates, ¢; Haslam and Creighton,
w; Mooee, Ernst, Coleman, subs.

Dal. Wins in ‘Basketball

‘‘Quack’’ MceQuaid’s Senior Basketball
Team were victorious in the first game in the
City League schedule. They defeated the
fast Y. M. C. A. team in the Dal gym. on
Saturday night by the close marginof 25—
23

 

The game was a hummer for so early in the
eeason and prospects look well for a winning
season. ,

Owing to illness, Mader was unable to play
but even with this loss the team was in good
form.

‘Doe’? Smith was high scorer while McOdrum on defence played an excellent game.

The line up:—

Y. M. C. A— Davison, Piers, Thomas,
slocre, Hamilton, Grisdale, Winecombe, Whittock, Jacobson.

Dal.—- MeLean, MeDonald (6), Smith (12),

McOdrum (5), Miller, Harrison (2), A.
Smith,
Rifle Shooting

 

The Dominion of Canada Rifle Association
competition known as the ‘‘Inter-University
Match,’’ has been won for 1924 by a team
representing Queen’’ University, Kingston.

Other competing teams represented the
Universities of Toronto, Manitoba and Alberta, while McGill held a close second place
for the Trophy.

The average scoring of the winning team
was 92 out of a possible 105. Desmond Burke,
who last summer won the King’s Prize, and
incidentally his College education, was again
at the top of the list. His score was 99

It is interesting to note that the Rifle Asociation at Queen’s had died out, as it has at
Dalhousie; and that 1924 was the first year
of its revival. A little effort, and a little
co-operation on the part of students and faculty has brought worthy and lasting honor to
Queen’s, |

Dalhousie men used to shoot : why not now?
We undoubtedly have some good shots, who
are doing, and will do everything in their
power to see ‘Dalhousie, 1925” engraved on
the D. C. R. A. Inter-University Cup.

~NOTICE

| Medical Society Meeting Thursday night;
at 8-P.M, in the Munto Room to ‘disetiss cases.

 

"4
tn
2

Law Dance To-night

‘ A Rwod tts i

Hockey Intermediates Lose

The Creseent’s Second Team defeated the
Dal. Second Team by a score of 5—2, thus
avenging the defeat of their Senior team.

The city team had practically a new line up
and had the edge of the play throughout.

This was the Dal. Intermediate Team's
second game having defeated Dartmouth last
week,

Coleman played the best game for Dal

The line up.

DALHOUSIE—R. Moore, g; Pecey and
Bissett, d; Taylor, Langstroth, Coleman, Murphy, f.

CRESCENTS—Gray,  g;
Stevens, d; Morash,
Lake, Malloy, f.

Dewolfe and
Lemhan, MeDonald,

SECOND TEAM LOSES 20—15.

The Intermediate Basketball Team lost té
the Y. Seconds on Saturday night. The game
was a good one and Asst. Manager Baird's
Squad are in fine form. Score 20—15.

NOTICE

Members of the Faculty, Alumni and
Alumnae and office staff may obtain skating
elub tickets upon payment of a fee of $1.00.
Apply to H. G. Stairs, 2 Waterloo St. Sackville 579.

Watch the notice boards for tickets for the
McGill-Dalthousie debate in the gymnasium on
Friday evening January 30th, at 8 P.M.

Studley Bachelors Bridge Club

With the Christmas examinations a things
of the past, the newest of the college societies has become active again. During the
next few weeks a tournament will he staged
similar to that of last year. It is also the
intention of the Club to hold a bridge at the
Green Lantern or Tarry Inn oe in the
term.

All those who wish to connieal in the tour
nament will please choose their partners and
watch the notice board for further particulars. As a word of warning, we wish to

 

state than any man who finishes his partner’s —

lead in a tournament game wlil be astracized

by the Club for the remainder of ~the term, _
in addition to any penalties which he may

suffer at the hands of his partner.
S.

_—_

WARNING

Don’t forget to keep Monday Night Feb.
ruary 2nd open for the Dental Dance—with ©
6 piece (lubricated) orchestra. All kinds of
novelties and special features.
Notice boards for further details.
| SHAMELESS ONE! __\-
Ruth. Fulton (meeting Prof. an
suddenly around a dome) "Oh, my heart!”"

 

     
 
 
 
 
   
  
      
   

  

    
 

  
       

   
  
    
  
   
       
   
 
   
 

  
   
 
  
     
   

Watch the 7

 
e° § MRE HE »DALHOUSIE
ie sa . an wa ted THE . ‘Dp LH /
: ;
a a
: *%. " * ' e { . > , Ye. ‘ 4 o ae ° ‘ ‘ *

  

)===—= DISPENSING@S@="

MacLeod, Balcom Ltd. Colwell Brothers

   
  
   
  
  
   
   

 

 
   
  

  
   
   
  

  

| id ia —— LIMITED
3 Druggists | 453 BARRINGTON STREET
a3: —— 5 9 MEN’s . FURNISHINGS
ae i 3 “RIVE: g HATS —-— BAGGAGE
2 an “PLACES © “ ‘® I JAEGAR WOOL GoopDsS
he fiine mfeA fesfi JOF 3. BANE . -HENRY'S - COLWELL’ wot president
SAFETY. | a Pe GARNET J. COLWELL ... . Vice-President
ie ot oe DP Ei cote sei-rearer
L2onEMISTS. ee a “

   

CM Patera,
Kk YIU: Midhhihhihshhhhiditille ee WZ WD
- 4" MOM yar M4 ea te!

i The TARRY INN

A ¢ TTT Melee |
Dataty Lunches Served Quiddy
Sey yt

onkeiberiGlnny COOLING DRINKS '
ICE): CREAM ‘AFTERNOON TEA

ed f TTA $57 ut

 

DELL

Z Lhd CSTSITISTSTSTT SSF ——— (bs Lhe

her Moirs Chocolates. It is the open
sesame to every girl’s affections—especially —
the new Bridge Box that makes a dlightful
“fifth partner,”

MOIRS CHOCOLATES

Famous for Their Goodness

Dinner 12-2 40c ©." _~ «|, Supper 5-7 40c
SPRING GARDEN ROAD,
“' "AT DRESDEN ROW

j

 

We

ar Take a tip from the cognoscenti and give
|

 

SEES

(LE tte,

AMAL LLALLA ALLIEN ALLA AA ALANA AA AAA ALAA LAI A LL AA LALLA LAA.

‘
BAI AYE oY 5 th) ies oa.

 

Bh fckity

‘Phone sia, POBox 718 | | CLOTHES SEEN AT

| SURGICAL THE COLLEGES
cle FRUMENTS | _ SUITS, OVERCOATS AND

| XMAS PRESENTS F URNISHINGS
: For The
| i ‘Doctor, Nurse & Student To Please The College Man.
| ; ‘Order Your Gift Early i W. BR, PAGE
, aoe Supplies & Sundries Co.

' Room 5 Green Lantern Bldg Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Halifax, Canada, lye | H ALIF AX

 

 

li I
. re

   
  
 
 

-U-_NEAT PRESSING.
PARLORS

ORIGINAL BOB LEARY,
Manager

Economize in youn: Pressing by. buying «
Strip of Four Tickets for $2.00.

Each ticket entitles you to have a Suit o
Overcoat Sponged and Pressed.

Our. Regular Rate is 75.0 Sait

' WE. ALSO DO DYEING, DRY-CLEANI
REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.

_23.Blowers St. Phone S; 967

Phone Sack. 139; Furzished Rooms

Mader’ Cate

15 Granville Street

(Foot of Blowers St.)
Halifax - Nova Scotia —
Lobsters. our Specialty.

Brac Mid-day Dinner in Halifax

 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
 

    
 

 

   

GAZETTE

POOR BILL

 

There was a boy at old Pine Hill,
His deeds we’ll ne’er forget;
His name's a secret—call him Bill—
I'm sure you’ve often met.

This Bill did always muddle: things, ’
‘In that: he had no peer,

And never leariit by countless stings,
Whatever- ee to ) Fear ,

: Poor Billy fell in Lire of, couse —" dar,
He ne’er could stop a futl< eee

| At last surrendered ‘to the fore,
Ww hich drew to Shareilt aaah

“ls 5*

. i .
‘ = oe

“The any ‘second of “thie day | Ae
i SAVE héar hin at thé iis way
| We can’t reveal just What he’ wr, 3.

Tt had a tender ‘tone. ae Me ni

“We plagued and Leaded hith p with igh wee

v2) A first he ‘took no ‘heed’;

But by dégrees e’en Bill did see
For privacy some need.” ,

So for a. time; we heard no-more
- His-stirring little chats.
We worried not for oft before
We'd seen ‘these lovers’ spats.

But William couldn’t trick us long,
One day the phone did call, '

We heard his voice say clear and strong,
‘“Good Morning Shirreff Hall.’’

Whene’er you plan your friends to fool,
And use a public phone,

Reeall HER number—do be cool—
And don’t ring up your own.

Madge.—'‘I’ve been in bathing every day
for a week and haven’t made a single conquest. ’’

Marjorie—‘‘A girl does better when. she
sits on the sand and keeps her powder dry.

 

‘‘No,’”’ said Gertie the Flapper, ‘‘I don’t
believe in showing too much of my silk stockings.’’

‘“‘T know why’’, said the cat, ‘‘it’s becatte
they have cotton tops.”’

The Green
Lantern

   
  
   
  

   
  
   
   
 

    
   
   
 

       
 
  
   
  

 

  
 
  

     
    
  
   

is arestaurant where pure foods are
_served at moderate prices. Light lunches
and Ice Cream are very popular here,

     
  

  
