 
 
  
     
  

 

ae
a 7 si
+ i.
= i PS *
hatage
ha)
, ort,
fix 2
be

i¢

4
i

ee

i
r

   
    
  

Ph

 

fees
he Avie k

 

  
 
  

i, trig)

si
I
call, «

  
  

mh Sa
ry 7~
as 4
~ ee
a is "
'? , +
‘1e.!! ¥

,
Mf j

* E
,

*

 

a
5

~

=
=

wee
= y
x

\ se
a
k

{
eS
ate:
ae
ise
|i»

a
‘a
a.
i oe. i,

ii

i

      
        
   
   
 

‘

aw

SHALL WE HAVE A PROFESSIONAL COACH?

Only F ioe

_- The speakers were in

* Canadian House of

sa _order that. the votci's
_ equal control of tne government, each
member must

S ;
tet, wa

> stituencies vary in size.
possible tnat a minority of the voters

_ to control the legislation.

ong

 

: Candidates Try Out for
Intercollegiate

| Team

President of Sodales says

that absence of quantity
was counterbalanced

by presence of quality
The members of the Dal Debating

 

 

~ team are Ray McCarthy, Bob Donald

‘and Arthur Ormiston chosen from the
five candidates who turned out on
Tuesday Jan. 12th. The judges weve
Doctor Clarence McKinnon, Professors
Horace Read and Vincent McDonald.
order of ap
pearance, Ben. Rodgers, Bob Donald,

, Arthur Ormiston, Gordon Harris, and

Ray McCarthy. Theit speeches showed
fewer signs of oratery than of common sense and study of the subject,
“Resolved that the Members of the
Commons be
Elected by Proportional Representation, Rather than by the Present System.” The first candidate, Ben Rodgers, was the only one in favor of the
resolution; the others, one and all,
did their best to punch it full of holes.
The substance of the adresses is as

follows:

Ben Rodgers: 3

- In a democracy every man should
have a voice in the government.. In
may all have

represent an equal
‘number of voters. But under our
system the member represents only
‘the majority of his constituents; the
‘minority has no spekesman. Another

ult of the present system is that conee ee soe ST nivel ae 4:

‘may control the government. In
Prince Edward Island the party which
poled the most votes returned only one
member out of four. If such a condition existed throughout the Dominion we would have minority .ule.
Contrast this with the state of affairs
under proportional _ representation;
every member of the House would represent the same number of people; the
various opinions on public policy would
be represented according to their actual
strength among the voters. Thus our
government would be a just govern
ment.

Bob Donald.

It is a poor ergument in favor of the
adoption of the system in question into
the Canadian Government to say that
it works well in Switzerland. Countries
differ. }

The addition of proportional representation to our system of executive
responsibility would lead to instability
of government. Many parties would
be represented in the House, and the
cabinet would consist either of members
of a party with a small majority or a
coalition. Ixvs control of the House
would be insecure. Where the tariff
is of such importance as it is to Canadian trade a stable government is a
necessity. Pa

Again, a.coalition government leads
to log-rolling which enables minorities
Such is not

the case under our present system.
Another opposing argument is that
under the proposed system many
sectional parties would develop, and
in Canada it is hard enough now to
foster a feelling of national unity.
Proportional Representation would
be adopted at the price of constructive
legislation. .
Our present system is more practical
and therefore preferable.
Avthur Ormiston:
The British Government is second to
none for efficiency and minorities are
_ well represented,

Continued on page 4.

Track Notes

 

_ All men who are interested in track
and field sports will note that the
ee has been reserved every

onday night for training and practice in every line of this port. By
turning out to these practices, all
candidates who wish to make the intercollegiate track team, will be given an
equal chance. If you do not make
the team, you will at least get some
valuable training through the exercises
and coaching given by Mr. Stirling.
There will be lots of competition and
fun also.

Incidentally, Ebers, who broke the

- college pole vault record last fall, was

ing out the new indoor pole vaultpit the other day and claims that it
works excellently. A new indoor shot
ill be obtained in the near future.

  

e

    

at all times to present a fine case in

 

 

Chosen Leader

 

RAYMOND McCARTHY
of class ’32 who will! lead the
debating team against Mt.
Allison.

 

Brief Sketches of
the Members of the
New Debating
Team.

All are new comers to
College Debating—

well balanced
outfit.

The Men’s Intercollegiate Debating
Team this year is comprised if Mr.
Raymond McCarthy, Leader, Mr.
Arthur Ormiston and Mr. Robert
Donald. This is the result of the
judge’s decision on the trials held last
week,

Mr. Raymond McCarthy, member
of class 62, has been heard at Sodales
many times in the last few years. He
has represented his class twice in the
Bennet Shield Competitions and made
very creditable showings. McCarthy
gave the keynote speech at the Model
Assembly of the League of Nations,
which was held at Dalhousie last year,
when he took Germany’s stand for
Disarmament. He has also had a
good deal of debating experience at the
sessions of the Boy’s Parliament. Mr.
McCarthy is a forceful speaker, does
not memorize his speech and speaks
naturally and convincingly.

Arthur W. Ormiston, hails from
Sydney, Cape Breton. Entering Dalhousie as a Freshie-Soph last year, Mr.
Ormiston did not participate in debates
but amply demonstrated his forsenic
ability at Sodales the night of the
trials. Mr. Ormiston began his debating career at Sydney Academy,
when he debated with Donald Finlayson, J. A. Y. McDonald, and Bill Jost,
all well known debaters at Dalhousie.
Mr. Ormiston has a very good delivery,
a slow continuous flow of speech and
outlines the salient points of the resolution effectively.

Mr. Robert T. Donald, Senior in
Arts and student in First Year Law, is
a member of the team which won the
Bennet Shield this year. Mr. Donald
is a clear thinker and may be depended

support of his side. He is a popular
resident at Pine Hill and a member of
Phi Delta Phi Law Fraternity.

Medical | Notes

Fred Wigmore President
of ist year—Banquet
of Society rumored

At a meeting of the Ist year class on
Thursday, Jan. 13th, Fred Wigmore
was elected to the presidency of the

 

| class.

Rumours of the Med Banquet are
in the offing, and this subject is to be
one of the chief topics of discussion at
the next~ meeting of the Students’
Medical Society to be held at the
Public Health Clinic on Thursday
night, Jan. 22nd. The executive re
uest the support of tne members of
the society in turning out for this meeting.

Meds are advised to consult the
notice-board at the close of every
lecture nour. Even the rate of change
of feminine fashions must admit supe:jority to the speed and regularity at
which classes are changed, courses
are shifted and notices are posted at
phe Medical school.

 

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 

 

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 2lsr, 1931.

New Archives Building Officially
Opened--- Name of Donor Disclosed

 

Future of this new building is to be dynamic
not static.

By DR. ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN

The loggia in the second story and

the flat roof are features of the new
Archives Building which suggest Italy.
The suggestion is continued in the
great empty, unpartitioned rooms lighted by many windows.
the traveller of the Council Chamber
of the Doges’

They remind

Palace in Venice, with
“The Last Judgment’’ covering one

entire wall.

The Archives Building is palatial

and it is, in this country, at least,

unique. It is a _ stately home for
what the Donor called ‘“‘the soul of the
people.”” Tuesday, January 14th. is
to be marked in red in the annals of
Dalhousie. In a favorite phrase of
the late President, ‘‘It marks an epoch.”
The transaction there on Tuesday
afternoon differs trom the inauguration.
ceremonies of all other. buildings.
There have been other libraries, other
laboratories, other halls or residence;
but a building to house archives,—
what is the meaning of that?

To the popular mind, archives are
simply dusty, dim, yellowed papers,
of (nointerest) or valueexcept to a few
greybeardsor myopic professors. (That)
archives are the priceless inheritance
of our ancestors who bequeathed us
all that makes our community life
valuable is another vision. And that
was the vision of the speakers last
Tuesday. There was the public identification of the Great Unknown, ‘‘Mr.
X,’’ like the identification of ‘‘Agricola”’
and ‘‘The Author of Waverley.” He
is one of our own Nova Scotians,
who had the idea and the means to
turn the idea into stone and mortar.
He had the vision without which the
people perish; and he saw in this roya
gift to his native province an institution which would give our youth inspiration for their life work. The
note of this ideal was heard again and
again.

The Ceremony of the Keys recalled
some quaint custom of a medieval
guild. The actual key of the building
was presented by the Donor to the
Premier of the Province with fitting
words. He, in turn, presented the
Donor with a key of gold by which he
is to have access at ail times to this
House of Learning. sat ee

The golden key is a symbol worth
pondering. It stands for the Archives
Building and all that it may ever
contain. Precious as gold it will be,
and it will open the door to treasures,
The future of this new building is to
be dynamic not static. Its function
is not simply to collect and hoard, but
to encourage and diffuse new knowledge. It is to be a centre of activity,
of study, or productive scholarship,
It may become—who knows?—THE
School of Canadian History.

 

Class Party
To-night

A combined class party of °31, '32
and ‘383 is to be staged this evening
at the Green Lantern. Joe Mills
and his Serenaders will be there to
supply the music and all tnat’s needed
is a large turnout to stage the most
successful combined class party in
Dal’s history. Remember, if you miss
this party you will be sore at yourself.

 

 

 

Girls Trials Above
The Average

Strong team chosen

On Thursday evening last, Jan. 15th,
the most important debating event as
far as the girls are concerned occurred
in tne Munroe Room when the girls’
intercollegiate debating trials were held.
In spite of the stormy night quite a
number of the students turned’ out
to hear the trials. Miss Doris Margeson, manager of the debating team,
presided, and outlined the évening’s
business. :

The judges were Dr. George Wilson,
Dr. Prince and Prof. C. L. Bennett, of
King’s College and Mrs. J. F. Cahan.
Taney were muco pleased at the excellent presentation of the contestant’s
speeches, and heartily congratulated
the differcnt participants. The contust was so close, and tne various
speakers so excellent, that the judges
took a long time to make their sclection
as to who should comprise the teams.
They found muca difficulty in choosing
a leader, but finally decided on Miss
Helen Williams, by virtue of her past
experience, and by wer excellent presentation of argument. The two girls
chosen along with Miss Williams to
complete the team were Geraldine
Simms, Class 31, and Dorothy Redmond, a member of Class 32.

The girls participating in this contu.st were, Marie Ferguson, Elizabeth
Murray, Dorothy Redmond, Geraidine
Simms and Helen Williams.

The Rvsolution was ‘‘Resolved that
the granting of the Franchise to Women in Canada Has Been Justified.”
The Dalhousie girls upheld tue negative.

The arguments in brief of those
above were as follows:—

Miss Marie Ferguson, spoke first
enumerating the reforms proposed by
women, and said the franchise had
accomplished nothing in the solution
of the problems needi,g reform. She
added that it was not because of
women’s inability that she has not
accomplished more. Their capability
was shown during the war. In order
to affect politics greatly women must
sit in Parliament and at the present
time female members of parliament
number only two, and two are not
enough to influence the field of politics,

Miss Elizabeth Murray then spoke
and pointed out that women since
entering politics have had very little
influence. She showed that an active
participation of women in _ politics
tends to unsex them and to destroy
those qualities which distinguish them
from men. That the exposure to the
vicissitudes of life tends to bring out
the combative and latent male side
and represses the female side of women,
Then again women are easily in fluenced
Ist. if she is married, by her husband,

 

and 2nd. by her feminine friends.

Miss Dorothy Redmond was the
third speaker, and she made the preliminary statement that women are
more conservative than men and so
adhere to things of the past, and vote
as their fathers and grandfathers
before them.

Many, she added, don’t care which
side they vote for and as they are
so often swayed by the “‘glare’’ of men
politicians they can induce them to
vote as they wish. In conclusion she
stated that the former idea was that
the moral standing of Canada would
be made higher. This was not shown
by the recent election concerning

Continucd on page 4, col. 4.

 

Nova Scotia Archives Building

 

Gift of W. H. Chase of Wolfville, this building recently was
opened officially

npn
T THE FORUM THURSDAY, JANUAR Y22nd

\

 

On Girls Team

   

HELEN WILLIAMS
of class '31 who will this year
lead girls’ team at Antigonish

First Dalhousie
Night at Forum

Draws Large
Crowd

Lack of music and poor
ice mars otherwise enjoyable night—Few

outsiders present

 

The first skating session held at the
forum last Friday night was larger
than any held last year. About two
hundred Dalhousians were present,
and for once no one could complain, as
they have so often done before, “Oh
there were so many outsiders there.
It simply ruined the evening.”’ Indeed
there were scarcely a dozen or more
outsiders at the rink,

The night was a great success considering the fact that there was no
music, not even the orthophonic
machine, which has served its purpose,
and is a thing of the past, indeed
broken and utterly useless. It would
have been a tremendous success if
there had been a band. This delinquencey was not due to poor management but to a misunderstanding,

The forum cost the executive $112,
and at this price, they expected that
the management of the forum would
supply a band. It was natural that
they would expect this for such an
outrageous charge. It is too bad the
executive didn’t realize in time that
their expectation was not to be fulfilled. An extra twenty dollars fora
band would have been well spent.
Many people were disappointed, about
this, and it is the only complaint to be
heard concerning the first Dal. night.

There is a rumour that there will be
other Dal. nights this winter. We
hope so, and sinceiely hope, too, that,
in the future, the one disppointing
element of this time will be avoided.

 

Engineering
Notes

Jack Fisher selected Hockey Manager

Thejannual Boilermakers Ball was held
in the Nova Scotian on Monday evening Jan. 12. The dance started to the
tune of Joe Mills and his ‘‘O” at
promptly nine o’clock and the some
%uU dancers tripped the light fantastic
toe. Dr. A. Stanley MacKenzie was
the honored guest while Prof. and Mrs.
W. C. Copp and Prof. and Mrs. H. R.
Theakston were the chaperones. The
dance broke up in the small hours—
with the general opinion that it was an
unqualified success.

A meeting was held by the Engineering Society last Friday afternoon for
the purpose of selecting a hockey
manager. Jack Fisher was unanimousiy selected and steps will immediately
be taken to form a strong team for the
interfaculty league. With the wealth
of material that they have to choose
from this year, the Engineers should

cope another hockey championship.
However time will tell!
The interest with which the Ex
ecutive and Social committee combined
was the making of the Boilmakers Ball
a real success. The executive is composed of David Murray, Ken Mahon,
Paul Shepard and Jim Ferguson,
while those on the Social committee
were Laurie Redden, E. Harries and
Jack Fisher.

 

i eshte

   
  

No. 11

 

Cometothe Munro
Room To-night
and Hear Mat
ter Discussed

Excellent speakers have
been chosen to handle
this vital question--
give your opinion
from the floor

The first Sodales debate of the new
term wil be held to-night, (Wednesday
the 4ist) at /.5u o'clock in the Munro
Kkoom. The resolution is: ‘Resolved
that this House deprecates the introduction of professional coaching into
University sport.”’

This subject is of vital interest to
Dalhousie tuday, and we believe that
ul the “‘House’’ on Wednescay night
is at ali representative of the Student
Body the attirmative side will not be
Maintained without a strenuous opposition. -Not many weeks ago aiscussions about a paid footbali coach
were promment in the Gazette and
the voices of smoking-room orators
were at no time silent throughout the
nails of Dalhousie. In this debate the
question Of proiessional coaching will
pe faced m regard to all our college
sports, and everybody will be given
aN Opportunity to express unis or her
vieWs upon the subject. ‘Lhe time has
passed when this University can hope,
even with winning material, to consistently put out a conquering team in
any sport—tfootball, basxetbail or hocKey under amateur coaching. What
then will the decision be? | Simon-pure
amateurism and second class teams?
Ur paid coaching and teams of the
sv2¥-5u football vintage. At the debate tonight tnis question will be
investigated thoroughly.

The aitirmative of the resolution
will be upheld by Doris Margeson and
Donald Finlayson (leader); the negative will be supported by Helen Williams and Gordon Cooper (leader).

Doris Margeson was a member of
the girl’s intercouegiate debating team
vt last year and is this year manager
of girls’ debating at Dalhousie. Muss
Margeson is an officer of Sodales and
nas represented her class on the Students’ Council. She graduates this
year in Arts.

Donala Finlayson, a senior in Law,
has never remaimed silent when questions of politics or University policy
were under discussion, Last year he
participated in tne debate on the
Provincial political administration and
during the election of last fall his
voice mignt have been heard in Cape
Breton summoning the faithful to the
ianks of MacKenzie King,

Helen Williams, Student Council
member, intercollegiate debater or last
year, and prominent on the Gazette
staff, if anything can be said for the
negative, Miss Williams can be trusted
to say it, She is, also, a senior in Arts.

Gordon Cooper, battle scarred
hero of the first tootball team will tell
you what the players themselves think
of the idea of professional coaching,
Mr. Cooper wa. a member of the
Newfoundland team of 20-29; of tne
intercollegiate team of 2y-3u, and is
ihis year managing editor of the
Gazette. It is a question whether Mr.
Cooper is more familiar in gown or in
football togs.

In the Munro Room, Wednesday
night (Jan. 2ist) at /.8U o’clock, hear
this important topic discussed by four
very able speakers.

 

Delta Gamma

There will be a meeting of Delta
Gamma either Friday or Monday
night—watch the bulletin board for
the date. The business to be dicussed
i of special interest to every girl as it
concerns the dance and a show for Glee
Club. The programme for the meeting will be a very interesting one.
Cathe:ine Hebb and Connie McFarlane
are di.ecting a one act play, and the
King’s Girls are also putting on a skit.
Besides these two numbers there will
be two or three special features. So
everybody come.

—>-+e—___

Nora Dickie of Truro spent a couple
of days last week with Katharine
Moxen at Shirreff Hall.

Helen Sexton, who visited ner father‘
Dr. F. H. Sexton, during the holid ay
has returned to Wellesley College.

 

Alice Nelson of Stewiacke, popular
graduate of Class '29, spent a few days
in Halifax last week.

 

ea al name E - a

 

 

  
 
     
 
  
 
 
 

Something to
Argue About

(A column inviting comment and con
   
  

  
 
  

   

   

  
 
 
    
        
        
   
       
         
      
   
       
 
       
       
    

  
  

a es, oe
ree | > a: ae aay iw Vex *
_ “The Oldest Paper in America.”
Re ea hia Soren pe Rioting in the Public Eye.
eT ae ee Support for Sodales.
4 es Managing Editor: Ultra-Specialization.
A.GORDON COOPER| ‘the dainty damsels of Barnard
ges. S.2148. College, N. Y., certainly evidence all
Neg *. me , Associates: the earmarks of extraordinary emanciOhi e os ee _ T. A. GOUDGE, _ pation. For in a recent edition of
See rar iy Maan Oe Wy. 50 T.D. MACDONALD, their undergraduate publication, one
ee TS "HOS. CRAWFORD, lively and iberal lady holds forth on

the value of ‘rioting in the public eye’

TH
DORIS MARGESON.

ee | Bo. as a means of conveying cash to the
oe chante “> Sports Editor: college coffers. Commenting on cerah . MAAN . F. R. DUXBURY. | tain collegiate celebrations at Columbia,
meet: she adds that in cll probability, some
ena : > : aged alumnus remembering lis own
- f News Editors: wild student days, will grow sentimenes tu CHARLES MILLER, tal, and settle a million or so on the
h a xyiety DOUGLAS GIBBON, y luniversity. And the modest maiden,
le ee ; ROBERT KANIGSBERG, with a burst of eloquence, issues to

her compatriots, the following clarion
call to arms:

“Tf we, by bursting the bonds of
convention, can gain a little of such
profitable publicity, let us imitate the
noble example which our gay young
brothers have set us. Cynicism is no
more! Sophistication no more! Modestv no more! Let us be Amazons, oh
my sisters! Let us riot in the public
eye!”

Little wonder that venerable heads
shake with concern, and _ perplexed
parents despair. Little wonder that
Herr Spengler fills lugubrious tomes
with, “The Decline of the West.”
Little wonder that universities are
designated “grownup kindergardens.”
“Rioting in the public eye”? may be
excellent in its place, but that place is
certainly not in college life.

PP teat ELIZABETH MURRAY.
ce 2h} abe he) YP RAREBY GOLDBERG.
Business Manager:

|. R,DONAHOE,
P a A i ‘$.4086J. ~

Asst. Business Manager:
DONALD MAHON,
L 2074

 
 

, Be PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. 8.
i} a ‘ - al = : s

+} ’ «

Re te LITERARY ISSUE.
~ A college publication such as the Gazette must serve its readers
in a dual capacity, first, as a chronicle of day to day events in the
university, and secondly, in the absence of a student’s literaiy
‘journal, as a medium for the literary expression of Dalhousians in
whatever form. In order to give adequate attentioa to the increasingly important function of the Gazette as a newspaper con
--—-- tributions to its columns are usually limited to those possessing
value as news, and not necessarily as literature. Writing talent

     
          
     
   
   
     
       
      
         
  
 
   
 

   
   

  

 

ah i may, howeve:, seek expression in a Literary Supplement to the} The support which the students are
Bie Gazette to be inserted in the regular issue of January 28th. It is giving cebetne eo de
. hoped that this issue will attract contributions of merit and serve to| PO’ © doing ‘its utmost to. stimulate

        
      
    
     
       
         
 
         
     

_ ~~ emphasize the fact that the Gazette is not solely a newspaper.

- : , os : interest in the forensic art, and so far
Any of our readers interested in writing are urged <o contribute

results have been very discouraging.
Attendance at the debates has been
atrociously asthenic, and were it not
for a few loyal and loquacious lawers
there would be practically no speakng
from the members of the audience.
This practice is a most commendable
and valuable one. If the students
had any real thought of the future,
many more would avail themselves of
the privilege, than do so at present.
It 1s a trite, truism that the ability
to express oneself in speech is almost a
requisite, and certainly an asset, ior
every educated person. Notwithstanding, fluent speakers are rare even
among the intellectuals. And _ this
should not be so, for the art is one
easily acquired by practice. Sodales
offers to tne students such an opportunity, together with the chance for
enjoyable and enlightening entertainment. Up to the present, scarcely
more than two score, from the University’s thousand students, take advantage of the debates. This proportion
is ridiculous. Let’s check up, Dalhousians, and give Sodales the support
they merit! !

4,

_ to the January 28th issue.

-.

_ QNE-SIDED EDUCATION.
, be pe VTS isa sad commentary on college education that such training
tends in some cases to narrow, rather than broaden one’s outlook
upon life. This refers particularly to devotees of the pure sciences
: eae the professions. They are exposed unwillingly for their first

 
 

hag
had to

    

   

    
    
       
     
 
      
       
    
   
     
   
   
     
      
    
    
    
     
   
     
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
    
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
     

  

_-——s two or three years of college life to a general course comptising,
-—-—s in some degree at least, subjects the value of which is almost entirely
i cult ral. Stumbling through this unpleasant preliminary to the
particular degree for which they are aiming, they become immersed
in the atmosphere of the chemistry lab, engineering shop or hospital
and promptly nairow their mental outlooks to the realm indicated
_ by their physical surroundings. They finally acquire a one-sided
nee education, never exploring those delightful by-paths of knowledge
me opened to them by their slight subjection to classes of a liberal
_——s Arts course. Further than this, our embryo lawyers, scientists or
---——s doctors are prone to develop a pitying contempi for the doddering
Arts student with his foolish habits of browsing around old books,
classical literature and his interest in ideas, with no set purpose of
learning anything of “practical’’ value. This miaimizing of learning for its own sake and intolerance of the student whose interests
are rather in theories and thoughts than in mere facts is a regretable tendency. For, after all, no education can be really complete
which does not provoke in the individual an appreciation of the
yhilosophies of man, of the finest of our literature, and a desire to
know and understand something of the complex problems of the
relationships of men in their national and international aspects.
The remedy for this one-sidedness of the education of many
-___ a professional man and scientist lies primarily in a changed atiitude
of the man himself towards the study of purely cultural subjects.
This attitude may be assisted in its change, however, by an extension of time devoted to college work. Since the average pro- fessional course is quite long now and is lengthening as science goes
Ae oa, this plan would only be applicable to the very few with money
and time to spare. ls 3 The question perhaps boils down to one of teaching methods
and the nature of courses required for pre-piofessional yea-s.
The latter should consist of not so many uninteiesting compulsory
subjects but of a choice of those designed to inculcate a desire
for further knowledge of, and intelligent interest in, questions with
which a well educated man should be familiar. The teaching
methods should be specially designed to appeal to and broaden the
mind of a student whose ideas are liable to run in one direction
only, that of his prospective profession. The studenc’s a.titude,
- anall-important factor, can be materially altered by skillful planning
ef courses and teaching of them. There is a life-long satisfaction
and contentment to be drawn from a love f learning for its own
sake and an appreciation of the finest in the Aits. The prospective
___. professional. man or sciencist should attempt during his college
___ days to acquire such a source of real happiness.

 
 

 
 
  

j i a ;
ibe a

  
  

ha | :

Modern learning is undoubtedly
suffering from an acute attack of ultraspecialization. This tenacious tendency is often deplored by serious souls,
who’ see in it tne inevitable enfeeblement of education, and the eventual
disintegration of intellectual life. At
one time, indeed, specialization was a
boon; now it is a bane. Because of
specialization, vast progress has been
made in man’s attempts to learn about
himself, and about the world that surrounds him. But now, he is gradually
drowning himself in a sea of facts.
He finds himself unable to co-ordinate
the terriic amount of knowledge
which the countless ‘‘ologies” reveal to
his poor bewildered brain. He cannot
sze the wood because of the trees. As
for the specialist, he is an expert in one
department, and an ignoramus in all
the others. A wellknown scientist,
Prof. A. N. Whitehead, says himself;

‘‘The modern chemist is likely to be
weak in zoology, weaker still in his
general knowledge of the Elizabethan
drama, and completely ignorant of the
principles of rhythm in English versification. It is probably safe to ignore
his knowledge of ancient history. Of
course, I am _ speaking of general
tendencies; for chemists are no worse
than engineers, or mathematicians or
classical scholars.... .This situation
has its dangers. , It produces minds in
a groove....and there is no grodve
which is adequate for the comprehension of human life.”

i

aE
2:
a i

ae dome

 

 

ae : The last clause cxpresses the whole
Ree arri Ye A) t matter precisely. Our ailment is too
EU FT og ‘ much analysis. What Melle and
Eom ck ~ need badly, is a little synthesis, The

r ftuih ; THE GLEE CLUB. fact that a living brain-cell has heen

| a eee | : roduced in a chemical laborato
ENS The Glee Club, formerly one of the most active of student : >

‘eh 4 . 4 act ; meahs practically nothing to the man
societies, has been a practically defunct organization this year.|on the street, because he cannot relate

oa, The students, through the Council, have voted seven hundred | 't to the rest of his knowledge. But to
wn a philosophic mind, its consequences

dollars of their money for the support of the Glee Club which is wey
ee, ARES OP SBCIE FRONCY | iY : re extremely significant. And th
ns aus sufficient indication that they want entertainments from this sah on “ite  Aceet WEL tae ee Peeled
Pane ont estie

— They have the right to expect at least one show a month| feel those consequences in the future,
but so far this year there has been only one entertainment which Ae all, the ae aim oes is Beis
the whole student body could attend. Criticism of the inactivity | ory eran ment physically, ment,
of the Glee Club executive has already appeared in the col gitvicand api ‘ se cos
Be oe, en ee eECECCUL | y app he columns} ally, and spiritually. It cannot comoe tas ' the Gazette. The defender of the Society, in answer to this| pletely do this, unless man knows
__ eriticism, hinted at great events in the near future. The “near| where his learning Js eye ang
future” is now upon us and the results of all the planning said at the| Whether he is justified in following it.
Pa So eee Bel tas hepesed are apt . ° It So it is high time we had a synthetic
i | to be n process are apparently non-existent. It is true that stock-taking of all our knowledge, and
rul ia revue or play to be staged in one of the city|the co-ordination of the results in a
but, as the ee nave ea invited | practical philosophy.
rts in either type of performance, we] - patie Ohl.
mn that these rumours are groundless.
f Glee eeu time has an unplea-|

be
he
%, |

co

   
   

he

the teaching staff of Edgehill, spent
the week end with Gwen Currie at
Shirreff Hall.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Margaret Stables, Class ‘28, and on

|\Canadian College

Comment

 

COLLEGE PUBLICATIONS.

Last term literary contributions and
letters of criticism reached the office of
the Gazette in small, very small numbers.
Apparently Dalhousians do not realize
that they have in the Gazetle an excellent mouthpiece for college criticism
and a free field for practical literary
experience, leading possibly to future
promotion to the Staff. The Queen's
fournal speaks of college publication
work. 
It is interesting to note how many
members of the staffs of college publications go out into the world and
obtain places of responsibility and
honour in fields different greatly from
journalism. This state of affairs may
seem surprising but it detracts in no
way from the value of belonging to a
college staff.

This is readily understood when it is
considered that the men who, while
receiving their training for the ministry,
medicine, engineering and business‘are
learning tne intricacies of publishing
and actually encountering the difficulties of maintaining the high and true
ideals of journalism. Such men _ will
make better and more _ intelligent
readers of the public press when they
hold responsible positions in society.

In the McGill Daily an appeal is
made to undergraduates for a better
expression of interest in the University.

One of the main features of the
Daily, we are told, is to act as the
medium of student opinion. On looking through past issues, nowever, we
see very little to warrant this statement unless the editorial column is
to be taken as the final and complete
statement of all undergraduate ideas
on all undergraduate matters. The
correspondence column, a department
maintained especially for communications of a critical and expository nature
is largely neglected.

At the beginning of the term there
was considerable activity among those
who write letters to tne Daily; but
most of these were interpretations and
objections directed at statements in
other columns and were not in the true
sense, opinion. About the campus
there must be many little things which
attract favorable or unfavorable attention, yet it takes a heated argument
on a topic of importance to elicit letters
from the student bods. Thus “student opinion”’ on day-to-day events is
never known because it is never expressed,

With this opportunity provided there
is no reason why the situation should
have arisen which is described by the
professor who said that students today
are far less inclined to criticise the
staff than they have been in previous
years,

MILITARISM AND THE
UNIVERSITY.

The War is now twelve years away
and there is in the Universities a new
generation whose lives have scarcely
been touched by the reality of it.
This new youth has been schooled in an
atmosphere of post-war Peace Propaganda. and it is fortunate that in our
Canadian universities O. T. C, courses
are not compulsory. Consider the
recent violent reaction that enforced
military training has brought from
students of more than a _ hundred
American universities. The Varsity
(Tor.) reports the objections raised.

“Military drill is a violation of academic freedom. R. O C. courses
are not under the administration of
the college, but of the war department. They often are a prerequisite
to graduation. This amounts to a
strangle hold on student opinion by
the military authorities.

Military drillis an attempt to train
students in the attitude of unquestioning obedience which war demands.
It seeks to idealize war, and to inculeate among students the mental
attitude which makes war possible.

Military drill teaches doctiines contrary to the principles of American
government. In one of the manuals
of the war department, democracy is
defined as involving an, “attitude toward property that is communistic,—
negative property right . . . .results
in demagogism, license, agitation, discontent, anarchy.”

PROFITABLE INVESTMENT

Students new to University life find
themselves faced with an unaccustomed
wealth of time, which through former
inexperience they invest to poor advantage. These students come to the
university, it may be supposed, for the
ptime purpose of develcping their mental faculties. yet investigations into
American college life reveal, truthfully
or untruthfully, that outside of course
assignments less than fifteen per cent
of college students do any intelligent
reading above the modern {ight novel
class,

The McGitt Daity speaks editorially:

“A professor has said that notwithstan dingall the extra-curriculai activity .
whichis partof the life of every student
there is more spare time in a unive.sity
career than in any other part of life.
During this time the oppeitunity is
presented to explore fields towards
which onehas any inclination whatsoever. Here especially, with the Redpath Library, it is possible for the
undergraduate to find all kinds of information in all languaces, which can
be used to supplement what little is
learned in the twenty courses taken in

four university years,

——=)--o——

Gerald Godsoe, popular and well
known Dalhousie graduate, is spending a few days in Sydney.

 

Through the
Looking Glass

Appreciation.

Radios at college.
Too baa.

Our finishing school.
College aebating.

One often stops at various times
during his years on earth to reflect—to
wonder what we humans are struggling
for, why we continue on in the face of
adversity. We are suddenly struck
that perhaps we are hoping for a brignt
spot in a dark sky. Weare continuing
the fight, being buoyed up in om
darkest moments by a word of en
couragement, an expression of appreciation. :
Appreciation, ah, it is so easily

given and often it is like casting a rope
toa drowning man. We fight on in the
hope that our efforts will be appreciated
by those we hold dear. Is it not true?
How often have little trivial things or
matters of great moment bee. done by
you with the hope of an expression of
appreciation, althouga that is not your
,oal. Never the less within you there
is a secret desire, a desire you would
rather die than admit, that you will be
appreciated. Tne young child is looking for it from his mother, the adolescent
youth from his best girl, the grown up
man from the one he some day hopes
to make his wife. Those are the
principal ones by whom we wish to be
appreciated but appreciation from
anyone acts as a torch to light the way
to greater achievements.

By appreciation we do not mean the
praise which is often dropped carelessly
from the lips of a chance acquaintance.
Althought we generally are delighted
by those words of praise so easily
uttered yet in our heart of hearts we
know that they do not carry the same
weight as words 1rom tnose we hold
dear. What we mean is that the
efforts of the person to do his best are
making a firm impression on taose he
holds dear—even the most trivial thing
is being esteemed. He is gaining his
reward.

It is surprising what a difference a
little appreciation will make in one’s
life. It is often his very life blood—
more often the very impetus needed to
spur him on to greater efforts. So
when something is done for you, even
if it is only a matter of littke moment,
appreciate it....It doesn’t cost you
anything and it is helping someone
else, Remember you too are looking
for appreciation. ‘‘Do unto others as
you would tney do unto you.”

We understand that one of tne girls
of Shirreff Hall has returned to college
with a radio in tow. A wag made the
remark that now there was one radio
at the hall and ninety loud speakers.
The radio is a new departure but the
loud speakers have been there ever
since the residence was opened.

The girls have reported to the
Gazette that they have not yet got
their loiter room despite the eloquent
appeal in this column to give the girls
a hand. We have done our best girls
—the only thing we see for you ta do
now is trust that someone will run for
the students council under that same
plan that Hoot Manon adopted a few
years ago. Then he will incorporate
it in his manifesto. See if you can’t
get something out of that suggestion.

Before Xmas the Gazette published
an article called Alice Speaks in which
the writer said that many of the girls
came to college merely for finishing off,
We understand that many of them
certainly came to the right place and
the faculty saw to it that they were
finished off.

has

Another debating team heen
chosen to represent tne University
in an Intercollegiate contest. One

ee a
Pi en sae ee
' ie ere eh ee
: ; eet oe ee

%, ei tee

   

J arsine 21st, 1931

Poet’s Corner

THREE GYPSY SONGS.
I.

Gypsy gold, stolen gold, buy my
heart a rest,

Buy a low, red fire burning down along
the west,

Buy a brown girl for my bed when the
nights are cold,

Buy a dark, deep grave at last, stolen

gypsy gold.
II.

A. gold coin it takes to buy

Tne love that lasts a night;

A silver coin to buy the wine
That sets your troubles right;
Not all the money in the world
Can buy the dream you crave,—
It only takes a copper coin

To buy a lonely grave.

Ill.

If you should kill my love for you
In any sudden way

I’d take a merciful bright blade
And let your red blood pay.

But if by torturing degrees
You make my love a lie
I'd drop slow poison in your cup
And smile, to watch you die.
F. M. B.

———+.+e—_—_—

SONNET TO AN OLD EMPTY
HOUSE BY THE SEA.

By Audrey Pauline Ryan.

Yes, even now aloft on cragged rocks

You cling still loath to leave that hallowed place.

And loving much you heed not time
that mocks

Your slowly crumbling
wavering base.

Those yellow tiles that once gleamed
gay and bright

In torrid heat of blatant solar fire,

Are mellow now in sunset’s glowing
light

That sheds soft
lonely spire.

Soon purpled night will slow enfold the

walls and

radiance on your

earth

And shower star-dust on the harbour’s
blue;

And poignant memories of grief—and
mirth

Will crowd around the empty hearths
of you.

Alone and dark,—yet pulsed with life
and light

Yow Watch another ship pass in the
night.

peculiar feature of the trials this year
was the fact that none of the veterans,
there were six eligible, chose to try
out. What was the reason for this?
Have they reached the ~ conclusion
that college debating is not all it should
be or have they simply not the time.
A little of both we think. After all
the system that the other colleges of
the Maritimes insist on using is not
conductive to training either in public
speaking or quick thinking. The battle has been fought and won before
the -peakers take the platform and the
machines get up and give their recitation. One is surprised when they
begin public speaking how little they
teally know. In fact the only thing
that might be said in favour of the
present system is that it helps to get
vou used to standing on vour feet ir
front of an audience? Why must so
much stress be put on the winning or
losing of a debate? Can't people see
the real value of college debates or are
they handicapped by the disease that
attacks so many known as narrow
mindedness?

 

 

our policy is to clear
everything in season--
therefore we are offering
special reductions on almost everything in thestore

it will pay you to shop here

Shanes Men’s
Wear Shop

30 Spring Garden Road

 

Halifax

 

 

 

HOME-LIKE MEALS

 

A Neighbourhood Restaurant
famous for GOOD COOKING

and Home-like

surroundings

 

Parry’s

Restaurant

94 Seymour St., Cor. Coburg Road

 

We Cater to Students Especially

 

 

 

ST
  

a? bs With: the Christmas Exams
~ |them and the Finals still fer away the] . '
| devoteees of the manly art are at last

en i
DAs re tie,
t " ms.

——
=)
7%
sa

ee ng | lege Education

 

behind

es ‘setting down to a period of hard train
   
  
  
 
 
     
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
      
   
   
  
 
   
   
  
  

members of the Faculty who had
so poorly in the exam, hopin, to
; them on to greater efforts. One
of the best students of humor has been
t 2 careless of late and in the recent
examinations made a mere pass where
in former years he always copped a
« irst class mark. It pains me to draw
attention to this matter but in a report
i of this kane I must call a spade a spade
2 eo g t t

By
7

ow he new rulings of the Studley
y it . Bridge Club. The delinquent —professor I refer to is Prof. C. L. Bennett
ae B.A. (Cantab) to which the commission
was forced to send the following rather
ive}, Ceree note: é

mie? ota wf ; ;
» Prof. €. 1b Bennett,

 Sect"y Committee Studies and Hind
‘t rnd iy " erance, }

Ma. | ©: Room B:

Aya d :

i ee

a hn Dear Prof:

Tire ae of ’ ' 5
Paes We regret to inform you that

Bal we have carefully gone through
+ your paper and we have been

4
1)
1 |
cs

     
 
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
  
    
    
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
    
  
   
  
 
      
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
     

~~ forced to arrive at the same con—- glusion, viz. that you nave made a
; very poor mark in Humor. F rank
ly we may say that we are bitterly
disappointed in you. When you
came to this college back in the
days when Bud and Allie were
telling jokes on the Glee Club
stage and Keitie Holman was
doing black-face comedy we
; thought you showed great promise
as an honour student in Humor.
Later you filled our old hearts
with pride when we took lectures
from you in the Chemistry Theatre
using College Humor as your text
book. You regaled us with laughtCMs) Ale er in English 9 with your quaint
ss discussions on What 1s Drama—
ss Drama is Anything.

Yaa t But lately you have showed
signs of . slipping..Come, come,
| this will never do. We hear that
you are taking your work too
seriously, that will seldom use
College Humor as a text book,
indeed we have even heard that

‘=

ot ie ule r.

cae
ee

wee S alm

ee mae ll
re
oN

”

‘ -— speare’s Macbeth and that no
_--—— Jonger is the Chemistry apparatus
ss in danger from the ravishings of

  

_.. the English 2 swordsmen-actors.
J) Soe". OF course we realize that mar. oan riage is apt to make us look more
-- griously at things in general but
sir, we refuse to take this as an
excuse for your miserably poor
showing in the recent examinations.
' Remember sir, that the students
musi be kept in a good humor and
unless you do better we fear that
most of your students will leave
c your classes for Geology 1 where
ry at least they can sleep in peace.
er 5 Yours in fun,
G. Howe Dumb.

_ According to the regulations of the
' calendar the committee fer examina| tion and discipline in Humor sent out
aia Saracastic and Helptul Advise to
_ Hopeless Student Letter Form BX
11010642 which was carefully worded

by Murray MacNeill and is copyrighted by that distinguished correspondent.
- A number of professors received this
letter, which is only sent to those who
did so poorly in the test that they
remain at the University only because
of our generosity and warm-hearted— ness One was forwarded to Prof.
~~ R.A, MacKay. :

mee To this letter we received this
rather crisp reply: ;
A -G. Howe Dumb, i
ey, Sect’y of Royal Commission.

Dear Sir:

I will have you know sir that
my jokes are not to be laughed at.
Since you think I’m not so
funny I’m enclosing 3. closely
typewritten pages of assignments
in Munroe’s Government of Eu
ug, i rope and other interesting readie ings which I wish read for Tuesa! day.
oY Kindly laugh that off.

Service with a smile,
PROF. McKAY.

tes . _ By perusing these most interesting
hae ments you can readily see what
the Royal Commission was up against.
~The only one lett with a real sense of
. humor is Gautheron but since

oe 2 he gets most of his jokes out of La Vie
7, Parisienne we could hardly call them
__ original. |
Prof. MacNeill saves most of his
humour for the Curling Club, Registration day and the letters he writes.

This is a very selfish attitude the com__ ‘mittee believe and we recommend that
“J he liven up his classes in Math 2, 3 and
ie Anyone taking any of
doesn’t deserve to

4

id

4, especially.
= hie other cl
 daug

_ or less history and history shouldn’t
' Tepeat itself. ;
_ Dr. Bronson told me a good joke
Gre it was on the occasion
then he and I were going over a pap?
ved at 92. At least that is what
valued it at—he had some foolish
ory about it being only worth 27
“a r Soe {

>
,

ae ie

a

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
    
  
  

you have exchanged it for Shaks-|

ing for the coming tournaments.

_| Monday and Friday evenings find the
[Gym Hoor scattered with a score of
groaning athletes who are performing

various and salutary gyrations under
the stern direction of Mr, Sterling.

|The balmy days of the Xmas vacation

have given many a pound that must
come off, if laurels are to be won,

The first tournament planned — is
scheduled forthe first week in February.
This will be an informal event with no
titles at stake, yet some stirring action
is promised, Some of the dark horses
of the college are expected to make
their debut on this occasion, while
many ef last years champs wil! be on
hand to show what a years training
can do, .

_ This first tournament will be a preparation for the Interfaculty meet coming
in the last week of February, in which
the champions of the college will be
crowned. After a few weeks of final
training our fistic experts will represent
Dalhousie in’ the Maritime  Intercollegiate Bouts which Dalhousie will
sponsor this year. These wili take
place about March 138th.

Last year Dalhousie had the honour
of winning these Maritime Championsships which were held for the first time
under the capable direction of N. S.
Tech. College. With this win went
the right to possess the Phinney Boxing
Trophy for the year, It is hoped that
the College will repeat its victory.
To do this, the whole hearted cooperation of those students with ability,
latent or otherwise is necessary. Several

‘of last year’s men are in training yet

a few faces are missing from the line up
whose places are hard to fill. So we
would again urge those shrinking
violets who-have ever boxed or those
who can only ‘fight’ to come out and
make this year as successful as the
last. - Then, when at the end of the
year Big Jim is handing out the D's,
will we see the proud faces of several
‘pugilists’ who have won their Maritime
titles.

Doug Murray of Rugby fame is
turning out and is rated as a capable
‘heavy’.. Cunningham, Magonet, Cox
and Forristal are hard at work with
many others.

Big Jim McLeod is zlso out, and
hopes again to defend his title.

Mr. Stirling is the capable trainer.
He will be assisted shortly by a well
known local boxer so expert coaching
is available for all including those who
do not intend to compete.

Important Debate To-nigh

 

 

or some such other equally absurd
value. He was feeling in a particulnrly
good humor then, th ugh.

Prof. Nickerson gave up telling
funny stories because the students
stamped so long and furiously that
they stamped right through the floor
and that is the reason one end of the
Chemistry theatre is higher than the
other. Those who uadee stood the
joke were in the front seats.

Of course everyone realizes that
since the last general election it wouldn't be fair to expect Prof. Stewart to
be telling humorous stories—even if he
could,

By this information you can see
how exhaustive our inquiry has been,
We have gone into every case thoroughly and found on all sides this regrettable
result that Dalho sie has fallen down
miserably in Humor. Should we establish a chair in Humor? I feel sure
that Stephen Leacock, Harold Lloyd,
Sidney Smith, George MacManus,
Charles Chaplin, and others who have
coined money on laughter would be
glad to help us out in this regard and
I see no reason why they wouldn’t
endow a chair. It needn’t be a very
substantial chair—just an ordinary one
and once a week we could all meet in
the gymnasium and Archie could ask
the President to sit down and then pull
the chair from under him. Wouldn’t
that be fun? Don’t you think that is
the solution to our problem? It would
give us all a keener sense of humor and
the rest of us could repeat this action
on anyone we chose during the week
using all the Professors who take
themselves too seriously. Wouldn’t
that be just dandy? Or would it?

Respectfully submitted,
G. HOWE DUMB,
Secretary.

 

 
    
       
   
   
   
   
   
   

TO STUDENTS!

Have you visited our combination Barber Shop and Beauty
Parlor. Separate entrance for
ladies and gentlemen
Permanent Waving, Finger Waving,
Marcelling, Manicuring, etc. Only expert male and female operators employed

SHIELDS °° Bey Bldg

B6748

 

 

 

 

ORTHOPHONICS

‘RECORDS, PIANOS,

MUSICAL GOODS
of all kinds

RADIOS and
RADIO COMBINATIONS

Also Fiction Lending Library |]

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

eu mi!
Ti ite

he PS Le H
a ML as 2
7 "i ne < me oh)
Qe ee as oe ‘
"18 gee Py rat
{Par ek’ 3

«
*

eu Ag : ee 7k oe * * 4 ry
r he 2" 5 ;

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

———$— = —— =

 

Now that examinations are a thing
of the past, perhaps the average student
is interested in doing some outside
reading, at least he ought to be interested. After all, the value of a ccllege
course lies primarily in the reading
habit and not in craming another
quotation into our neads. Many people think that all that should be done
in the spare time we have is to study.
This is fallacious. The real test of
an Arts course is just how much use
we make of our spare time. Outside
reading should rightly command most
of this spare time. Booklover therefore only intends to draw to your
attention some very interesting new
additions to our Library with the hope
that you may profit thereby.

In spite of the many criticisms our
Library. has been subjected to, it doés
contain a wealth of interesting reading
material. Rambling through the Catalogue, Stacks and outer shelves, Books
lover came across many an interesting
volume. He hopes that your taste
closely resemble those of his.

For those who enjoy a fine short
story, two very interesting volumes
of short stories have just been received.
One contains the best short stories of
Denmark while the other contains
those of Scandanavia. It is only by
reading these gems of literature that
we can really appreciate the transition
from their playwright Henrik Ibsen,
to some of the modern short story
writers.

As to those who prefer reading an
army story, ‘“The White Army’’ by
General A, Denikine is the very book.
This book describes tne first period of
the formation of the white volunteer
army. There is a pleasing absence of
political argument in this absorbing
tale of the White Armies. And while
we are speaking of war stories, surely
you will read, ‘‘Her Privates We’
written by Private 19022. The book
is well written, fine vocabulary and
while it does not go into the gruesome
details of war as do some of the other
war stories, yet the chief character
Bourne will be pleased to take you with
him on his many adventures.

Readers who best like Biographies
have a treat in store for them until
they have read ‘“‘Twclve Against the
Gods” by William Bolitho. This is
considered the best work of the late
author. The biographies of Napoleon
Ill, Isador Duncan, President Wilson
and Mobammet will delight you.

‘‘Modern British Poetry” edited by
Untermeyer wiil doubtless be read by
our budding poets as well as all those
who appreciate the most pleasant art of
expression.

The person who is an ardent follower
of the modern drama need not feel that
care has not been paid to his wants.
playwrights like Galsworthy, Shaw,
the complete works of Eugene O’ Neil
and hundreds of chief contemporary
dramatists await you.

Three volumes on Mahatmi Ghandi
and many more on the Indian Situation
ought to keep anyone abr.ast of this
nternational question, be he a student
in Political Science or not.

Booklover would also like to point

 

At this time when the question of
paid full time coaches is so much under
iscussion the question naturally arises,
“Should more attention given
to athletics and dramatics at this
University, and if so, why?” —

In the past and even yet athletics
has been sponsored and nursed by the
various. student organizations while
the university heads have maintaine
an attitude of indifference, willing
perhaps, but more often willing only
to act as a damper on many of the
proposed activities. :

What is the opinion of various influential men in and about this university concerning college athletics?

To my mind there are two very
distinct groups concerning this very
vital question. ;

Some very prominent professors
at Dalhousie not only disregard ohr
college athletics entirely, but look
upon it as something to be shunned
and frowned upon especially a stand
of yelling football enthusiasts decked
in slickers, sweaters and skull caps.
Well to put it mildly they cannot
understand what college youths are
coming to.

Personally I believe they are sincere
in their views. They feel it their
sacred duty to graduate men and
women from the university who. are
thoroughly deserving of the degree
with which they have been entrusted
‘and to do that they feel that the
student must attend ninety per cent
of lectures, (if not more) rewrite a
copy of their grandfathers notes and
believe that the revered teacher has
compiled this set of notes especially
for the present generation.

The time out of the class room should
be spent in quiet and solitude revising
and expanding the thoughts spread
in the class room, the theory is good
so far, but they believe that a high
degree of learning can only be obtained
in the way already referred to and
free from the devestating influence
of athletics and college activities which
only serve to distract the student’s
mind.

Thus is graduated the bookworm,
the quiet, reserved man, the nonmixer with that once cherished and
honoured college degree.

On the other hand there is the
group composed of busy practical men
who have reached the peak of their
profession in and around this university
who consider college athletics and
college activities a very vital and
essential unit of college life and education.

They have shown and are still
showing their interest in the student
body by giving unstinted of their time
and talent to athletics and dramatics.

These men have realized that a
college education only helps in so far
as it is going to benefit the student
and his associates alter graduatior.

The one who succeeds in the professional field is the well balanced
student, the mixer, the ore who is
great both in defeat and victory and
nowhere can these requirements be
a better than at college in
college games among our equals.

Thus we graduate the successful,
practical man who rubs elbows with
the crowd, but is able to make good |
due a great deal to his versatile college
education.

Almost invariably we find that the
men prominent in sports are also
prominent in other student activities
which all try to benefit their college.

The influence of the teachers is
clearly reflected to the students, thus
we have the secluded, distant and
reserved men as compared with the
enterprising practical man who are a
credit not only to the community but
to their Alma Mater.

(W. E .T.)

— —_ »><o -— - - -—

Gladys Farquarson of Charlottetown,
a popular member of Class '32, who
was absent last fall on account of illness,
has resumed her classes at Dalhousie.
We are glad to see her back again,

i fe auville’s

Dearest Ma.:

I've been so excited since
I got back that I couldn't
write you and Pa any sooner.
i Wait till I tell you, Ma. The
em first day I was back a nice
aé Freshman (one of the few who
we didn't get plucked) asked me
to go to the Boilermakers Ball
I was going to refuse, but I
had just been reading in the
Gazette about D'Eauville's
dresses, and you know that $15
Uncle John gave me for Christmas, well I've only got $3
left. But you should have seen
me in my new D'Eauville dress
at the Boilermakers. I got two
bids to the Commerce Ball.
Gee, I looked swell in that
new dress.

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

 

 

 

 

Your loving daughter,

SUE.

 

 

 

 

out that through the recent gift of
Judge Crowe, our Library now has
one of the most complete collections
on Napolcon and his times.

 
     
  
  
    
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
    

Renee eee ee eee nc eee rere eR a

 

 

Most of the residents have now
recovered from the effects of the
holidays and are settled down to a
fairly normal existence again. A few
late swallows came twittering back,
but after an informal chat with the
Registrar they quickly recovered. The
January slump is not in evidence yet,
so our New Year’s resolution must not
all be in vain.

The Newfoundland boys were a
few days late. Tommy House decided
to come back early and took a freighter.
He arrived a day before the others
after a joyous five days between St.
Johns and Halifax. In spite of his
pale green complexion Tommy insists
that he had a good time taough his
description of the voyage is rather
vague.

18, at eight

Atter a brief review of the

Mr,

Several theologs were surprised to
learn that ‘‘plucks’’ do not cease after
Dal and Mount A. Systematics and
Hebrew took toll of a few stalwarts.

Midnight banquets are still in
progress. All the homemade bread
and cakes are gone, but canned chicken
is still with us.

 

This program

We can make this a bright

 

_ Anumber of new jokes were brought
in by Santa. We were badly in need
of them. Lack of space prevents their
publication. You've probably heard
them before anyway. ‘

Come

We welcome you most

The first year Meds are of a broken
and contrite spirit, but are manfully
working away. They report varied
experiences during the vacation.

Any of lan Mackay has been laid up for

these books ought to make interesting |a few days with a bad ankle, the result

reading for the week-ends.

 

 

 

 

BIRKS=

 

 

of a tobogganing accident.

 

— ———

Turret Hath
Charms?

Y

Coz
GZ

There’s a possibility of trouble
in store — but Turrets will
smooth the way and calm the
storm.

TURRET

mild and fragrant

Cigarettes
Save the valuable “POKER HANDS”

 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one,

 

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS More than two, 20 cents extra.
Halifax. Covers up to six.

—

 

 

 

 

     

 

Leather Goods

 

 

G. A. McDonald

 

Portfolios and Loose TOBACCONIST
Leaf Books, Bags and Smokers Requisites of every
Trunks of all kind denaription

A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

and sizes .°. .°. .*.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

| 21 Spring Garden Road

 

 

hp

        
     

   
 

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Halifax Ladies College :
hservatory 0 uUSIC and Dietician's Certifies:
€. 0 + y f M Household Science: Teacher

Musie¢ in all Branches. Teacher’s Certificate. Graduation Diploma.
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.
MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A., MR. HARRY DEAN,

Principal. Director of Conservatory

    

 

tics and Col-| The Book-Lover | Choral Society | Pine Hill Notes ’

The first meeting of the Choral
Society was held in Shirreff Hall on
Tuesday night, Jan.
o'clock. There was a good representation of interested members in attendance.
purpose of the Society was presented
a slate of officers was drawn up as
follows:

President—Howard Kennedy.

Vice President—Evelyn McElhinney
Secretary —Winnifred Killam.
Treasurer—Donald Doyle.
Discussion of the work for the year
indicated that there is renewed enthusiasm on the part of the students
for Choral singing, and we can expect
great things from the Society when it
appears at Glee Club this winter.
Dean has very willingly offered to
direct us again, so no more need be
said regarding direction.

The plan we wish to follow this year
is to meet on Tuesday nights for the
rest of January and thruout February
in order to prepare an attractive program of music, both vocal and instrumental for a special Glee Club Concert
which we propose to present towards
the last of February.
will complete the work for the '31
term.
light in the events of the year with
the full cooperation of the students.
The chorus cannot be too large.
and meet with us on Tuesday nights
for an nour and a half of singing and
a social time.
heartily.

 

~
.,

a,

‘

be

tattered! ia

 
agi = em baa) .

Phe Ant
vo toe

a

> ok
* te met

  

   
      
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
     
 

BH,
ea

| Fo: - of some twenty students and professors.
Mr, Cornell first gave a brief talk on

doing and its value to Canada. He

‘kde

sat

--—s proper and expeditious handling of

rice

wy
we

   

ae
a.

5,

oh 8

a +

vet

» @

7
1 :
in
ni +

 
  
 

      
  
   
  
  
  
  

ees
i A ee
re.
i

eS wt

a

- used in the actual working of the port,

fine shed, was gone through.

g
:

ak ais aft ‘ c res.
The members of the Round Table

___,, Club were the guests of the Halifax
_ “Harbour Commission on Saturday
_ afternoon in an extended trip, visiting
the harbour front properties under the

_ one responsible body who will have

+

their goods.

services are ineffective unless the con

ef exports and imports.

'

\
{

\
,

: i

unloading and loading at the South

  

 

   

bY

‘control of the Commission. Mr. F. C.
Cornell, Traffic Manager of the port of
Halit ax, conducted the party composed

he work which the Commission is

stressed the fact that it is absolutely
essential to proper port development
that control be in the hands of some

behind them the Government or some
other public body. willing to make expenditures so that a port's facilities
will always be ahead of its actual re‘quirements, This point is necessary
if shippers are always to be assured of

Railway facilities and
highly developed merchant shipping

necting link between the two, the seaport, is managed efficiently and passesses equipment for the quick dispatch

Following this brief talk on the
theory of harbour development Mr.
Cornell conducted the party through
the various sheds where ships were

End Terminals. He explained in a
highly interesting manner the methods

the mechanical equipment utilized and
its importance in attracting new business. In some cases the material
reduction of handling charges resulted
in a direct benefit to the consumer in a
lower price for the imported product.

A-bus carried the party along the
four miles of city streets to the piers
at Deepwater. Pier 2, the last word
in construction when built during the
War days and still an pep owally

r.
Cornell explained how by development
facilities at this pier the Commission
had attracted a large amount of
business from the potato shippers of
Prince Edward Island which formerly
had gone to United States Ports. The
very interesting afternoon left the
members of the Round Table Club
convinced of the exceptional advantages

of Halifax as a port, and alive to the

:

importance of its proper development.

 

f

Continued from page 1, col. 1.

* a, *
nL

ded Bi; The idea of Proportional Representa
tion is not new. It was tried out in

#.
= ; Great Britian in 1867 and abandoned

u
PA

iv ee

i , t ¥

h

iz

b r er iy
3
=

 

- in 1884. The most practicable system

ef proportional Representation, Hare's

 

_ should we abandon it?

single transferable vote, was endorsed
by J. S. Mill.

In 1808 a British commission investigated the proposition and reported
that it was unsuitable for British conditions. It was again rejected in 1918.

If it is unsuited to the needs of Great
Britian, how much more so is it unsuited to those of Canada, where the
territory to be represented is so much
bigger.

The keystone of the British Pailiamentary System is the close union
between the executive and the legislature; but the system in question
means small majorities, ergo inefficiency.

Gordon Harris:

The idea has been talked about in
Canada for 40 years, but those in favor
have always been out who wanted to
get in,

Minorities are entitled to representation, but under the proposed system
the oppcsition would be very mixed
and tne goveinment unstable. This is
the condition in France, where every
mother wants her son to be an expremier,

At present the member realizes his
responsibility to his constituency, but
with a large constituency he cannot
know who to be responsible to.

Again, if one member dies, all members of the constituency will have to
be relected, at greater cost than at
present.

_ Members should reflect all the opinions of the country. How can a
workable cabinet reflect opinions of
every group in the country?

Roy McCarthy:

A stable government is necessary
befoie we can have efficent government.

Where this system introduced, every
member, in the case of Canada, would
haye to represent an enormous con
Stituency, Where will he get the
funds and the time to campaign ?

Again, how can the voter choose 16
men from amony 30? The average
man finds it hard enough to choose the
best candidate from among two or
three.

_ The proportional representation idea
is deemed impracticable in England;
it is less suited to Canada's conditions
where areas are so large and the
va) Sonar op so small.

_ the government under this system
would be similar to government under
our own system with the parties nearly
deadlocked. The party in power would
not dare to make a move for fear of
being turned out.

Now we have a government which
has proved itself for many years. Why

Grant, the chairman, then

‘rose and remarked on the absence of

i)
1°"

‘

   

quantity bnt presence of quality on th
art of the debaters, aad ex aed the
ope nat we may have, this year, a
ing intercollegiate debating team “|

 

lub visits Har-|

 
   
 
 
 
     
    
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
     
  
       
      
     

The Campas

 

Watch your step or you

will be in this column

Would you believe it? Observe
saw Lolla Campbell tell Herbie Stew
art on Saturday afternoon to quiet
down, when he started relating his
funny diddies to a Senior Co-ed. And
the funnist part of it all was Herbie
walked away as meekly as a schoolboy
who had been strapped.

Observer notes with displeasure that
one of our popular profs is going to hold
a gala coming out party for his constantly diminishing crop of hair.

A few days ago Observer noticed
some carpenters working on the Glee
Club Scenery. Surely none would be
so rash as to suggest that another Glee
Club Show is in the offing. But then
again the scenery is not as bad as its
painted,

Campus Observer noticed Prof. W
R. Maxwell chuckling all over himself
while reading last week's installment
of the Report of the Roya! Commission
which appeared in the Gazette. Maybe he thought a question en the Supply
and Demand Curve would be asked in
the Humour Test. Who knows?

 

Girls Basketball this year has been a
decided success. At every practice
thus far held there has been an excellent
turnout. Yes, most of the boys have
found time to attend.

The Engineers may have staged their
most successful dance, but those whc
went are borrowing from those who did
not go. Wonder why?

 

 

Observer is at a loss to understand
why the Skating Night at the Forum
could not have been a better success.
True, the Orthophonic broke down, and
a band was not engaged, and a hockey
game could not be put on, yet to recompense for this the Council could
have served all attending a nice hot
barkie.

 

Dalhousie vs. St.
Mary’s at the
| Forum Thurs.

—_—__-—-— —

Skating afterwards

Tomorrow (Thursday) night the
Dalhousie Tigers play their first Inte1collegiate game of the season at the
Forum, St. Mary’s College is the
rival team, last year’s winners, and
a good game is assured. The Tigers
are, at last, making a strong bid for
the place they once held in Maritime
hockey. Most of last year’s teamis back and it isconsiderably strengthened by the addition of Buckley
Acadia’s greatest hockey star of all
time, and Jerry Coleman, former
team mate of our Kenzie, in his younger
days when St. F. X. had its touring
teams, Six men have turned out
for the position of goalie, left vacant
by Ken Purtill, owing to a_ recent
appendictory. Ike Smith, of the Law
School seems to be the favored one
for this important position. Potter
Oyler, last year’s Captain, Don Thompson, Eaton, Stanfield, Taylor are
making strong bids for the remaining
front line berths.

For the defense, Hughey Martin,
Hall Connor, Max Brennan, and a
couple of dark horses will make up
the proverbial stonewall.

To sum it up, Dalhousie should
give the other teams a strong tussle
and take the place the Tigers know
best, the championship.

Due to the persistency of Fat MacKenzie, Tnursday will be another Dal
night, and this time A BAND IS
GUARANTEED, skating from 8.30
till 11 o'clock. Everyone was clamoring for a band last Friday, now that it
is assured, get out and support your
team, and enjoy the skating as well.
There will be no charge, your D.A.A.C.
tickets will get you and the girl friend
in, The game starts at 17.30 and
about 800 Dal students should be on
hand to show their appreciation of the
men who are doing their bit to put
Dal on the Hockey map.

Just as a hint, it might be mentioned
that similar nights will follow if the
students take advantage of it. Remember the time and place:—

Halifax Forum, Thursday, Jan. 22
at 7.30 P. M.

F, B.D.

GARRICK

TO-DAY and THURSDAY

“Only Saps
Work.”

with
RICHARD ARLEN
LEON ERROLL
MARY BRIAN.

 

   

 

 

FRIDAY and SATURDAY

The Super English
Production

“The Hate Ship.”

Y. M. C. A.

-Observer|Defeats Dal. Cubs

a eee ae

Last Thursday night before a large
crowd at the Studley Gym, the Dalhousie second team met defeat at the
hands of the “Y”’ intermediates by a
count of 27 to22. This game provided

some good baskethall, and although }

the association team won thev were
forced to extend their best to take the
University five into camp. Archibald
scored a foul throw to open the scoring,
to be followed by McSween with a
ong shot. Nickerson on a pass from
McLeod made it four to one, but
Captain Lucas looped in one of his
famous shots to be followed by Archibald with two points, and again the
association scored when Rafuse netted
the ball for two counters. Earnie
Richardson scored a foul shot and b;s°
jim MacLeod collected a loose ball to
bring the Dalhousie teams score to
7 while Mann ended the “Y’’ teams
scoring by a shot from outside the
defence for the necessary two points
giving the association team 11 to the
University’s 7. In this period Archibald for the winners and Nickerson
were outstanding, the former scoring
five points, while Nickeron collected
a basket an<l was the means of several
uther Dalhousie scores. Directly after
the start of play McLeod scored for
hig team to be followed by Alexander
with a field basket. Archibald ‘scored
a free throw, and Richardson dribbled
half the length of the floor to score on a
nice shot from the side. Lloy to Richardson to Nickerson made it two more
points for the college team, but Rafuse
lifted his seix feet up into the air, and
dropped one into the basket to be
followed by defenceman Doubleday
with a free throw. The Y team went
on a scoring bee and Alexander sent the
ball through the hoop on three occasions
tor a total of six points which brought
the count Y. M. C. A. 23, Dalhousie 15.
Rafuse and Archibald again netted
the ball for the association to end their
scoring at 27 points. Turner, O’Brien
came on for the University and immediately scored on a free throw, somebody threw Nickerson a pass and the
Dalhousie speed bov, made sure of his
throw to score. O'Brien connected for
two points, and again Nickerson connected this time with a_ beautiful
throw from almost center floor. The
Dalhousie team made an onslaughter on
the “Y”’ basket, but their bid came too
late, the final gun bringing the game to
an end with the association having 27
to the University total of 22, Nickerson was the best man on the floor,
but was hard pressed for honors by
Archibald and Alexander on the “Y”’
squad,

The scores as follows:

Y—Lucas 2; Alexander 8; Archihald 8; Williamson, Rafuse 6; McColl,

Mann 2; Doubleday 1; Gormley.
Total 27.
Dalhousie— McLellan 2; Nicker
son 8; McLeod 4; Kenedy, McSween.
3; Lloy, Richardson 3; O’Brien 2;
Clark, Stoddard. Toral 22,

Referee Sperry. Umpire Harris.

DRUGS

STUDENTS SUPPLIES

MacLeod-Balcom, Ltd

 

CHEMISTS

OPPOSITE

Bank of Nova Scotia

AND

St. Andrew’s Church

 

A Change Is Good
For Everybody

Why not a meal or
.. lunch at the .,
GREEN LANTERN

occasionally? eM

The Green Lantern

TEA DANSANT

4 to 6 p. m.
every Saturday Afternoon

Cover Charge $ .50

SUPPER

 

9 to 12 p. m.
every Saturday Night

Cover Charge $ .75

 

APPOINTMENTS AND SERVICE PERFECT FOR ALL
TYPES OF FUNCTIONS AT

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

a a

Girls Debating
Trials

Continued from pege 1 col. 4

—+-
 

Government Control Miss Redmond

concluded.

Miss Geraldine Simms was the);

next speaker. She pointed out.that
the grainting of franchise in Canada
was the direct result of the suffregate
movement in England, which did not
attain a sane and proper development
before it obtained victory. She stated
then that the time from 1918-30 has
not been sufficient to show success or
non success. And in conclusion added
that women are not politically educated
and are more than off swayed by
personal motives.

Miss Helen Williams, the last
speaker of the evening, said that as
the suffrage movement for women
resulted from the upheaval of the
Great War it was not a very natural
movement, she pointed out that women
were not educated to their new privilege
and that her suffrage is useless, often
a duplication. In conclusion she showed that woman has adapted herself to
the new made political world, and
thus has not added anything new.
Some people think that this infiltration
may be so graduate that there will be ro
appreciable difference in the political
world.

There are a great many more girls
at Da housie who couid do as well if
they would only cons:nt to come out
and try debating. It sounds a lot
harder than. it really is!

These three girls named above go to
Antigonish in February to take part
in the only girls intercollegiate debate
of the year, and by the strength of the
team, we feel sure they wil! make a
creditable showing for themselves and
for Dalhousie.

 

 

GORDON A. COOPER
who will debate to-night.

CASINO

Thur-Fri-Sat
Jan. 22-23-24

REX BEACHS’
Sledge Fisted Romance of the
Great Alaskan Salmon Run

‘THE SILVER HORDE’
with EVELYN BRENT
LOUIS WOLHEIM
JOEL McCREA
RAYMOND HATTON

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.

Jan-26-27-28
KATHLEEN NORRIS

“PASSION FLOWER’”’
with KAY FRANCIS
CHARLES BICKFORD

LEWIS STONE
KAY JOHNSON

 

GOOD EQUIPMENT
bor Good Athletes

Those why demand the
best in Sporting Equipment unanimously agree
that our goods cannot be
surpassed.

Service A la Carte

DANCE

Service A la Carte

The Lord Nelson Hotel

**The Social Centre’’

 

| Caps popular for golfing, motoring
|

 

January 21st, 1931

 

Dal Night at Forum

briday, January 16, was Dal night
at the Forum, and the turnout of Dalhousians certainly measured up to
expectations. The rink was crowded,
from about 7.45 on, and most of the
crowd stayed until eleven, when skating was over. The only drawback
to the whole evening was the absence
of the band which absence will be
remedied we hope, at another Dal
night in the near future, we can vouch
for a jolly, good crowd.

By the Way

ee ee ee

Bob Brown wishes to make it knuwn
to bis many friends that he is not
“Farmer Brown's Boy” referred to in
Burgess’ Bedtime Stories.

 

Arthur Thurlow wishes to announce,
that although his name did not appear
in the French II pass list, it was only
an error on the partof Prof. Gautheron
(Chester papers please copy).

Isaac Cohen is no relative of mine.

George Cohen.

 

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

I shall not be responsible for the
debts incurred in poker or otherwise,
by my son ‘Major’? Edward.

J. R. McCleave.

 

Optometrist and Optician

(Sed.) Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

 

 

    
    
     
      
  
    

ANNUAL
JANUARY SALE

SESEEEEE EET PLCS LT

 

 

We are offering our fine quality Overcoats and Suits at special prices during
this sale, from $17.50 to $29.50.

We will also have a suit or overcoat
made to your measure in any style you
desire at a special discount of 20°, less
than the regular price.

Why not buy that suit or overcoat now ?

LELFFLEPECE ESE PE PED

Colwell Brothers

Limited
453 Barrington Street

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

 

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

.IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons
or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

 

Birkdale
Felt Hats for Men
$6.50
|

|
|
Excellent quality fur felt and expert
workmanship bring this hat into the
quality group—yet its price remains
moderate. Popular shapes and colors
for Fall and Winter wear — you will
be sure to find the hat you want
among them. All lined.
:

Sizes 63 to 7%

 

 

   

and wear at winter sports. Fine quali- &
ty materials, richly lined, and shown

in smart patterns of fawn, brown,

grey and mixtures. Sizes 68 to 73.
