eee
[VOR
ae a : l ‘ oe a
Easy;
Re ao.
; Al ‘*,

    
 
  

My
{

Hold Legion Guards to 3
all Draw
bs 3 Legion Guards held'the Tigers to a

, 8 all draw on Saturday at Glace Bay.
| ~—-‘Dalhousie’s score came in the middle.

Miles > say of the first half when
At , Nd me Davidson booted the
ee pigskin between the

bars from the 40 yard
line as a result of a
penalty. A fumble by
one of the Dal backs
gave the Guards their
chance to get in a nice
« run to score the only

Fame.

ts Sutherland ey othe Pe
Jan Kenzie ee star
: flying quarter of last year’s Dal team,
eleved nn the wing for the Guards
and made some good runs that would
have resulted in scores but for the
hard and true tackling,of Jan Fraser
and Jack Buckley. yw Be | be.

, The Guards’ forwards made many
long gains by dribbling which compans, pletely out classed the Tigers. They

did not maintain their advantage in
the scrimmages, however, due to the
superior weight of the Dal forwards,
Another factor which helped materially
in holding the Yellow and Black from
‘crossing the line was the close checking
of the Legion backs and their tackling
_ which was of the high variety.
Dal made most of her gains by punt-.
ing ince touch, and when the ball was
passed out the line it was generally
_ fumbled or held on to. The Guards
so were ever on the alert and _ utilised
every break to carry the ball out of
dangerous quarters. Time and again
A ee: Tigers advanced the ball to the
Byard line only to lose it to the Guards
who dribbled it, sometimes the entire
es length of the field. .
- McCarthy handled the game very
satisfactorily and acted in the capacity
of coach, praising the boys and pointing out their mistakes.

DALHOUSIE vs. CALEDONIA.

 

  
   
 
   
   
 

  

 
  
 
  

7

As a result of penalties awarded in
iis front of the bars, Caledonia defeated
td the Tigers to the tune of 9-3 on Thanksiving day betore the usual enthusiastic
ans of Glace Bay and a generous
sprinkling of Dalhousians, past and
present. A chill north wind swept
the gridiron throughout the game,
which made it very unpleasant for
mt both the spectators and players. How¥ ever, the game was very fast, being
’ featured by nice work on the part of
‘ the Caledonia backs in passing the
F ball and the hard tackling of the
M's Tigers. ie BB
. Dal kicked off into the wind and the
Vt ‘basketball’ passing of the Caledonians
oF started, which took the ball (right up)
- to the 10 yard line, but,the, heavier
Tiger scrum controlled
oy the ball almost entirely.
A The lighter scrum broke
fast and were on the
flying quarter before
he could get started,
but managed to pass it
out the line and small
' gains were made. Art
- Sutherland changed
over with Harold ~
. Davidson and suffered
| many hard knocks as
a result of being thrown hard. Dal
_-_~—- was penalized for some minor infringement directly in front of the bars
and Danny Nicholson booted it over
x for the first three points. Dal started

 

Cooper

 

an attack that carried them to the 5
sr yard line, but were penalized and lost
ground on the resulting kick. Once
again Caledonia was awarded a penalty
kick and Danny repeated bringing
the count up to 6-0.
x Ian Fraser, playing at full-back,
_ was kept busy breaking up the passing
game of the Caledonians and saved
_ ~+Many times by opportune tackles.
re The first period ended
; mm 6869-0, when Danny's
brother, George, made
a nice kick from a
difficult angle to pass
between the uprights.
In the second period
Dal made a determined
| effort to score but lacked the necessary scoring punch after working
the ball to the very
; line. The Dal scrum
iets. continued to control the
ball and began to dribble well, but
_-~were discouraged by the penalty

   

q , alt, ¢ ae
- Duxbury
- Manager

kicks awarded. However, in the dying
Pet.) aA
ae bi _ Continued on page 4.

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

in Final Football Games
ge ay 9 of Season.

Pie Caledonia Scores on Three Penalties but Fails to

 

Cross Dal’s Line

Kappa Aipha Phi
to be Made In
ternational

 

 

TwoSupreme Court Judges to Officially Install
. Frats

On Friday of this week Kappa Alpha
Phi Fraternity, which was established
nearly four years ago at Dalhousie,
will be come the first general international fraternity at the university
when it will be officially installed as
Nova Scotia Alpha of Phi Delta Theta.

Two Supreme Court Judges, Robert
E. Haas, of Pennsylvania, President
of the General Council and William
R. Bayes, of New York, Secretary
Arthur R. Priest, and Prof. W.
Doten, Department of Economics,
Mass. Institute of Technlogy, together
with representatives from Amherst,
Toronto and: McGill will be present to
officiate at the ceremony which will
last three days.

The charter members of the new
chapter of Phi Delta Theta are: T. C
Sedgwick, Ralph S. Morton, Adam C.
Bell, K. W. Matheson, Norman Bayne,
H. E. Matheson, S. W. Archibald,
Allison Cumming. oh

ther members of Kappa Alpha
Phi who will be initiated into Nova
Scotia Alpha of Phi Delta Theta include: Dr. Ronald Hayes, Prof. E. R.
Jones, George Mahon, Jack Mahar,
J. J. Power, John Morton, Don.
McLeod, Frank Forbes, Wesley
Stewart, Charles Allen, T. D. MacDonald, Stewart McDonald, Douglas
Scott, Gordon McCurdy, Frank MacIntesh, Allan Murray, Donald Mahon,
Ian MacKay, Alex Bagg, J. D. Sadler,
Whit Cameron, Col. Stewart, Bud
Alexander, Gordon Colpitts, Charley
Harris, Bill Miller, Charley Lorway,
Edward McCleave, Victor Oland, Orton Hewat, Fred McLellan, John Budd,
W. C. MacKenzie, Jim McLeod.

 

Delta Gamma
Banquet To-night

On Thursday evening, Nov. 13th,
the Delta Gamma Society will hold a
dinner in the private dining room at the
Green Lantern. All the girls in the
University are expected to go, and it
is hoped that all who can possibly
attend will do so. Miss Lillian Sadler,
president of Delta Gamma, will be the
toast-mistress of the evening. The
toasts will be as follows: The King,
proposed by Lillian Sadler; DalhousieKings, proposed by Margaret Fairweather, responded by Mrs. Murray
McNeill; The New Dean, proposed by
Gertrude Hemphill, responded by Miss
MacKean; The Alumnae, proposed by
Doris Margeson, responded by Mrs
J. B. Hayes, President of the Alumnae;
and Delta Gamma, proposed by
Margaret Douaeu responded by Lillian
Barnstead.

 

F; 9 A Hold
Theatre Party

The Freshmen Class held a Special
Theatre Party on Thanksgiving evening when they went en masse to the
Board of Censors office to see a popular
picture reeled off.

 

Coming Events

 

Thursday, Nov. 18th—Delta Gamma
Banquet.

Friday, Nov. 14th—Freshman Class
Party.

Monday, Nov. 17th—Junior-Senior
Class Patty: 7 ae de ja

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 12rs, 1980.

Athletes Who Served in
Che Great War

MEMORY. -OF

}OUSIE ATHLETES

 

Beep a ae

WAR
he 8 Re

MSP RE CLASS OF 1925

Se EE as ec nee

Presented by the Class of 1923

in Loving Memory of Those
Stalwart Sons of Dalhousie

 

Sophomores Win First Bennett Shield

Debate by Narrow Margin

 

 

Sodales to Meet University Team from Porto Rico

On Tuesday night, the Sophomores
carried off the judges’ decision in the
first debate for the Bennett Shield.
It was regrettable that the number
of listeners was small, for Sodales is
providing good material for thought
and the response to their debates
ought to be larger. However, those
present had plenty to say in the time
given for speeches from the floor, and
at one time it looked as if the whole
meeting would be turned into a political mass meeting. The mighty cause
of Liberalism being upheld by Don
Finlayson and Jerry Stewart being
true to his Tories.

The Resolution of the debate was:
‘Resolved that Charitable Relief Encourages Laziness." The Sophomores
who victoriously upheld the affirmative
were represented by Dick Squires,
leader; and Marie Ferguson. The
Freshmen, who upheld the negative
of the resolution were comprised of
Bruce Murray and Daisy Zwicker.
The judges were: Professor C. L.
Bennett and V. C. MacDonald and
Mr. Ernest Howse.

The arguments of the speakers in
brief were:

Dick Squires, affirmative: Charitable relief renders dissolute the mind
of the nation and thereby renders
dissolute the mind of the nation and
thereby lessens its economic and
political power. Necessity is the mother of Industry but if you take away the
necessity for work by means of doles
etc, then you undoubtedly encourage
laziness.

Bruce Murray, leader of the Negative: Real Charity is directed by intelligence and love. If the poor were
not fed then chaos and riot would
result. The dole system is a sample of
Charity that is not misdirected.

Miss Ferguson, affirmative: Charitable relief is not desirable for psycholo
gical grounds. Through the dole system a lazy man is enabled to exist and
produce lazy children who grow up in
an atmosphere of laziness. The survival of the fittest ought to be our
standard.

Miss Zwicker, negative: The world
cannot exist without Charity. Charity
is good and is Virtue itself and by its
very nature cannot cause evil: Various
kinds of pensions are charitable and
are not censurable.

Following these speeches the leaders
of the teams spoke in rebuttal and then
the subject was opened to members, of
the audience. These included: Copp,
McCarthy, Kanigsberg, Finlayson, Stewart, Rosenblum and Cooper. Miss
Montgomery related an amusing incident wherein a charitable organisation
set some poor people up in a grocery
business, but within a month both the
business and the groceries were things
of the past.

Professor C. L. Bennet made some
interesting comments on the debate
and gave a few pointers on “how to
become the perfect. debater.”

The next Interclass Debate is the
Junior-Senior which takes place on the
25th. The subject is ‘Resolved that
the influence of the United States on
Canada has increased, is increasing,
and should be decreased.’ Miss Jean
Morton and Bob Donald have been
chosen to represent the Seniors.

The subject for the future DalMount Allison Debate was announced
to be “Resolved that the Members of
Canadian House of Commons should
be Elected by Proportional Representation, rather than by the Present
System.” Further particulars will be
decided later.

It was also decided that Sodales
accept the offer of the University of
Porto Rico to meet their debating team

at Dalhousie the early part of March.

 

Biology Club

Meeting

The Biology Club held their meeting
on Tuesday evening in the Forrest
Building and the largest attendance a
Biology meeting wasthere. The speak
er ot the evening was Dr. McKean who
spoke most interestingly on Bacteriofage. Following this the election of
officers took place and the following
were elected: Charlie Allen, president;
Muriel Langstroth, vice-president;
Hank McIntosh, Secretary. Jim Cox
was elected Chairman of the Refreshment Committee and Charlie Murray
Chairman of the Programme Committee. Then refreshments were served
and the meeting was brought to a close.

Fisheries Students
Organize

The students in the department of
fisheries met last week and organized
for the first time. A large attendance at this premier meeting goes to
insure the future success of the club.
A meeting of officers tok place and the
following were the results.

President—Charlie Murray.

Secretary-Treasurer—Robert Squires

The main purpose of organizing
those taking the fisheries course in to
enable them to ask the University to
grant them a Departmental Head,

Among those attending the first
meeting were:

Jim Cox, Basil Belliveau, Charlie
Murray, Harvie Robertson, Robert
Squires, DeRome and Thor,

Heroic Brav

No. 6

 

 

Tigers Tie One andLose One| Memorial Tablet to Dalhousie’s|Dalhousians Honour Their

e Who Fell

in War

Service Very Impr

essive---Honor

Roll Read and Last Post Sounded

Alumni News Outlines Needs at
Dalhousie

Appeals to its Members
to Offer Suggestions

 

That the Alumni Association of this
University is aware of the needs of
Dalhousie and is working to satisfy
those needs, is shown by the following
extract from the Alumni News. Als
though few of these additions may be
realized within the ccllege lives of
present students, it is with satisfaction
that they witness the launchirg of the
new projects. With such an example
before them, the Alumni of tomorrow,
who realize even better that the Alumni
of today that Dalhousie is handicapped
by lack of funds and equipment, will
surely add, in the near future, new
enthusiasm and more resources to the
movement, until the ‘‘Dream of Dalhousie’’ becomes an iron stone reality
upon the Studley Campus.

Two other things we believe ought
to be included in this list and that is a
Rink, and a Private Branch Exchange.
The Alumni News asks for suggestions
from any Alumnus or Alumna. Perhaps they will suggest these by the
Alumni of Tomorrow,

The Alumni Want for Dalhousie.

1. A University Club at Halifax
for Alumni of all Universities.

2. A Residence for Men on the
Campus.

3. A Permanent Gymnasium
at Studley and the attainment of
an objective of $150,000 for the

Dalhousie Alumni Development
Fund.
4. A New Arts Building at
Studley.

5. A Student’s Union Building.

6. A Fitting Celebration of Munro Day.

7. Heavier Endowment for Present Chairs at Dalhousie.

 

Medical Notes

Dr. J. William Reid, Dal. graduate,
and vice-president of the charter group
of Alpha Eta of Phi Rho Sigma, spent
the past year in Guy’s Hospital,
London, Eng. Just recently we have
learned that he has been conferred the
degree of F.R.S.S. He plans soon to
return to Newport, N. S.

 

The Alpha Etans of Phi Rho Sigma
staged a very successful dance at their
Chapter house on the evening of
Thursday, Nov. 6th. The dancing
rooms were decorated in Black and
Gold, and the feet of approximately 25
couples eagerly responded to the music
of Mr. J. D. Sadler. The chaperones
were Dr. and Mrs. K. M. Grant.

 

Two Scholarships
Founded For

Sciences

 

A foundation fund of $3,000 for two
scholarships, one in medical science
the other in pure science, and a cheque
to provide for an award of these
scholarships during the current year,
were presented to Dalhousie University
tonight by Mrs. Eliza_Ccchran Smith,
widow of J. Ross Smith, M. D. The
scholarships will carry the name and
are to perpetuate the memory of Ross
Stewart Smith, son of the donor, who
died July 28, 1924, in his twenty first
year.

Acceptance of the scholarships by
G. Fred Pearson and President Stanley Mackenzie on behalf of the Board
of Governors was accompanied by the
unveiling in the MacDonald Library
of a bronze memorial tablet and an
oil painting of Ross Stewart Smith,
the protrait being the work of his
cousin, Miss Margaret Frame, of
Halifax.

CC —————————————_£_LXL_ LE

Memorial Tablet Unveiled by G. Fred Pearson

—

 

Over a thousand Dalhousians, both
past and present, assembled in the
Studley Gymnasium on Tuesday, November 11th, to pay tribute to thcir
heroic brave who fell in the Great
Madness. The deep, ominous note
of the distant cannon, markcd the
beginning of a two minutcs’ silence
which brought home to every person
present, the imprussive nature of the
occasion. During thcse two long moments of stillncss, the thoi ghts cf all
dwelt upon the supr:me sacrifice of
the sixty-nine Dalhoisians who gave
their lives for the cause cf frecdom.

Followirg this, the grand cld hymn,
‘O God, Our Help In Ages Past’’
was sung by the entire assembly, with
Mr. Harry Dean officiating at the piano
in his custerary e.ficicnt manner,
Rev. Clarence MacKinnon read two
brief passages from the Holy Scripture,
and led in the repeating of the Lord’s
Prayer. Dr. Archibald MacMechan
then presented to the University a
bronze tablet in commemoration of
the Dalhousie Athletes who were
killed in the War. This fine memorial,
the gift of the Class of '23, was accepted on behalf of the University by
Mr. G. Fred Pearson, Chairman of
the Bcard of Governors. Both Dr.
MacMechan and Mr. Pearson spoke a
few brief and appropriate words.
Another hymn followed the ceremony.

At this point, Pres. A. Stanley
MacKenzie, who presided at the
service, read several extracts from the
Oration of Pericles over the Athenian
Warriors slain in battle. The immortal speech of that Master Orator
ringing down across the centuries,
was as though it had been written for
the occasion. Dr. MacKenzie reverently repeated the names of Dalhousie’s
heroes of the Great War, and the service was brought to a _ conslusion
with the sounding of the Last Post,
and the singing of the National Anthem.

The committee in charge of the
Memorial Service was composed of:
Dr. MacMechan, Chairman, Dr. J. S.
Bagnall, Dr. H.)P. Bell, Dr. N. B.
Dreyer and Dean Sydney Smith.

The student body showed their loyal
spirit by turning out en masse for the
occasion, and joining most heartily
in the singing of the hymns. None of
them, it is safe to say, have ever
beard the roar of a howitzer, or seen
the slaughter and suffering of the
battle-field. May they be spared this
terrible experience in the years to
come, and may they never have to
meet the glorious yet awful death
which overtook those sixty-nine noble
sons of our ‘‘College By The Sea’’.

T. A. .G.

 

D. A. A.C. Votes
For Strong Hock
ey Team

Manager Fat McKenzie
has good material

Dalhousie will enter a team in the
Senior Intercollegiate Hockey League
was the verdict of a special meeting of
the D. A. A. C. held on Tuesday last
in the Munroroom. There is a wealth
of hockey material here, including
Hughie Martin, former Wolverines
star, Jerry Coleman, from St. F. X., a
former team mate of our Kenzie’s,
Jack Buckley, Acadia’s captain last
year, and an outstanding player in the
Valley hockey league.

Our last year’s team is practically
intact and with the addition of these
players, Dal. should take the place it
once had in hockey circles when
Monty Haslam, Fabie Bates, Biicky
Dunn, etc., were here. ,

Due to playing graduate men, they
will not be able to contest the Maritime
paydowns, but Manager MacKenzie
is confident that they can win their
section of the league. It was agreed
that they would not have any preXmas work-outs as it interferes with
studies.

Professor H. P. Bell was appointed
to the management committee to fill
the vacancy created by the absence of
Prof. Max Mac Odrvum, who is this year
engaged on the English department of
Queen’s University.

 

 

 
  

 

| Founded 1869, “The Oldest College Paper in America.”

  

  
   
  
 
  
    
    
   
   
   
    
    
  
  
   
 
 
   

a , : i oe Biter Managing Editor:
_ ARTH A. GORDON COOPER
ek, S.2148. |
ator Associates:
T. A.GOUDGE, |
_ T.D. MACDONALD,
| W. T. DAUPHINEE,
Foi DORIS MARGESON. ~
| Sports Editor:

F. R. DUXBURY.

News Editors:
CHARLES MILLER,
DOUGLAS GIBBON,
ROBERT KANIGSBERG,
ELIZABETH MURRAY.
EARLE GOLDBERG,
Asst. Business Manager:

wats : is nS, eh i ; , ;
PerG a ee Business Manager:
; DONALD MAHON,

L 2074

‘J. R, DONAHOE,
ay ie $4086].

ai i, mip hr

rea AE SSeS SS9naS?77°oaaSjS=w—s—nw=w—qg_q0{"{T0{—_—ss—'
Be PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. S.

_ In charge of this issue: ROBERT KANIGSBERG

 

 

 

-THE PASSING TERM.

Bi Se Thanksgiving, whatever its meaning may be to the world at
___ Jarge, serves as a reminder to the college student that Time, in
‘ : 7 . * . .
__ his inexorable character of stern, unyielding taskmaster, is passing
with ~is wonted rapidity, and bringing ever nearer the dark,
dismal period of Christmas examinations. The holiday serves as
a breathing space during which one may rest awhile from the
social labors of the opening weeks of college and prepare for the
more serious intellectual combat looming up in the near future.
- The annuai season tor wholesale plucking is approaching, and in
order that one may retain one’s fine feathers it is an excellent
_ idea to start now with the books and carry the fight to the enemy's
~~ country. Thus it behooves those who are desirious of securing
forty marks or more in their several subjects next month (and
this includes everybody) to put into practice those good resol- utions formed at the commencement of the term and start to do
some serious study. Particularly does this apply to first year
students, the majority of whom go home to spend what was inSt headed to be a Happy Christmas with any number of plucks against

. them from one to six. They should realize, as the more experienced of their seniors do, that there comes a time when play at
, ) and real work begins. That time has now arrived.

ollege ceases

fa:

RR ye
What is the D. A. A. C.? Ostensibly it is an organization,
_comprisit Ay apreenantag all the men of the Uriversity, which

‘control over all athletic activities. The measure of control,
t, Which it actwally exercises over matters athletic is so
ble that the society is not fulfilling any really useful role
he conduct of student affairs, ard in fact, as at present conuted, is not even justifying its existence. Through the year,
_ it holds two or three sparsely attended meetings chiefly for the
-___ election of its officers and team managers. So slight an interest
_ is displayed in its work, that at a recent meeting it was only with
- -—-_—s diifficulty that a quorum could be secured to attend. As far as is
known the only duty performed this year by the D. A. A. C. has
been the appointment of cheer leaders. This situation exists while
all the duties incident to the management of athletic teams, and
the provision for proper administration of Courcil money given
in) support of athletics provides an endless source of discussion
~ at Council meetings, rather than being thoroughly thrashed out
by the D. A. A. C. before being submitted to the already overburdened Council. |
_ The duties which the D. A. A. C. could and should perform
would be usetul in the extreme. The exercise of a centralized
control over all funds expended tor the support of athletics is
perhaps the most important of these duties. Under such a system
all budgets for the different branches of sport would be carefully
_ checked and ratified by the D. A. A. C. before presentation to
the Council. The latter body would then be relieved of an im-mense amount of detail work which now impedes the orderly
and rapid progress of its meetings. Its only .action in dealing
with budgets for purposes of athletics would then be the checking
and ratification of a carefully prepared statement of the D. A. A. C.,
ee already approved by that body as a whole. A lump sum could be
_——s given to D. A. A. C. officers to be apportioned among the various
teams and leagues according to their needs as expressed through
the medium of their several budgets. Those officers would, of
course, be responsible for proper administration of, and accounting
for, the lump sum granted them, and would be required to submit
na _ to the Council an itemized account of all amounts expended for
athletics upon request. One of the principal advantages of this

} system as outlined would be the double check afforded over ex
penditure by the dual control of D. A. A. C. and the Council.
The amount of students’ money given in support of athletics
bulks large in the annual account and-any means of furthering
| the efficient and economical handling of this amount should be
_ welcomed. By the appointment of a permanent SecretaryTreasurer of the Council, a competent official to supervise this new
_--___- system could be obtained and efficiency in administration developed.

It is high time that the D. A. A. C. became an active society in
the University, entrusted with important duties such as those
outlined, the performance of which would assist materially in
the proper handling of the proceeds of the ten dollar fee,so large a
_ part of which is expended to further the cause of teams and leagues
under the aegis of the D, A. A. C. |

 

pa ee Li

 
  
   
     
   
  
    
   
  
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
      
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
 
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
 
 

anne
ara

a a
a Fit s A
i beer ol OF sa?
| + a

‘ Maes) .

ee

INTERFACULTY SPORT.

. _ Only slightly less important than the obtaining of a sound
_ mind during a college course is the development of a sound body.
Opportunity for participation in some sport should not be allowed
____toslip by due to pressure of other less important activities.. Very
Bc few can oo Dalhousie on senior and intermediate teams,
but through the medium of interfaculty sport practically every
person who is physically able has the opportunity of getting into

some game or another.
ee he CmnpenGcal and interest in interfaculty sport have been keen
uring the past few years, and promise to remain so during the
on. The football league is away to a good start, the
is being run off, and basketball is just in the offing. It
e the desire of athletic committees in every faculty to
in every Fi tn who wish to play. in. any of the interies durin g the year. — pales

: , f rey.
? fi ‘
: é x 4 "% , : he
yo “ee ‘ yes ’ +

=

%
WI

at
a ce
* =

  
    
  
 

DALHOUSTE GAZETTE

Something to

Argue About|

(A column inviting comment and conro troversy).

Individual Thinking.
Utility of the D. A. A. C
Football Managers.
The Scientific Detective.

A well-known contemporary writer
on education recently made the remark
that, “there is no intellectual life
among the students at our universities
A modern college is an institution
where there is much teaching, and no
learning.” How far this statement of
affairs is completely justified provides
an interesting question, but there can
be no doubt that it comes uncomfortably close to the truth. Here at Dalhousie, for instance, he would be a bold
man who would set out to prove that
there is any appreciable intellectual
life among the students. There is no
individual thinking done. Our whole
existence is one of slavish obesiance
to that tyrant, public opinion. No
one dares to be original, or to assert
their own individuality. Everyone is
so afraid of what people will say
about them. What people will say,
that is the all important thing to those
spineless nonenties who are perfect
slaves to public opinion, For example,
suppose a general mass meeting of the
students were held, at which anyone
could arise and give his or her candid
opinion on current issues in morals,
or politics, or religion,—would you get
up? If you would, then it is more
than certain that you would be one of a
very small number, brave enough to
withstand the force of public opinion.

wan nwnen

The dullness which seems to envelop
most of the student body, is made
particularly manifest in the present
indifference shown towards that venerable society, the Dalhousie Amateur
Athletic Association. The deplorable
state of lethargy into which this once
active club has fallen, is extremely
regretable, and those who are interested in its weltare seek an explanation
tor the desuetude therein apparent.
One thing is certain—the executive
powers of the club are not to blame.
They have endeavoured to the best of
their ability, to faithfully carry out
their duties, and the onus cannot be
laid at their door. Probably the
factor which has been greatest in producing the current condition, is lack
of administrative power. The D. A.

C. has practically no jurisdiction
over athletics. Tne Students‘ Council
is here, as everywhere, supreme. It
is the body which decides where and
how money is to be spent on sport.
Zt controls and regulates almost every
matter of importance in the realm of
athletics. And this should not be so.
As is suggested elsewhere, a method
should be devised whereby the D. A
A. C. could completely direct its own
finances, and adjudicate more fully
upon problems belonging essentially to
its field. If such a reorganization were
enacted, interest in the club would be
materially increased. But, even with
this improvement, the D. A. A.
would remain effete, if the studen.
themselves did not show a willingnesst
to give their support. So long as they
continue in their present state of
apathetical indifference,just so long will
the D. A. A, C.—yes, and all other
societies as well, be ineffective and
sterile.

 

 

The football season is over for another year. The cleated boots and
muddied sweaters have been hung
away, and the stands around the gridiron are bare and desolate. So this
seems an opportune time to call attention to the fine, unselfish work of
two students whose names never appeared in the headlines, and who
received none of the glory lavished on
the football heroes. We reter to
Messrs. Frank Duxbury and Walter
MacKenzie the popular and competent
managers of the Dalhousie Football
Squads. The willing and efficient
manner in which they have carried out
their duties, and the spirit of selfsacrifice which they have shown at all
times, set a standard very difficult
to surpass. It is a significant fact
that one or other of the managers has
been present at every football practice.
This is a record that few, even of the
players, can equal. Their jobs have
not always been easy, for the handling
of thirty or more temperamental
athletes is no sinecure, But they
have always come through with flying
colours. If a few more of us had the
spirit of these two men, the College
activities would never lack support.
We think that the student body owes a
debt of gratitude to two unsung
heroes—the Football Managers!

How many readers are aware that
we have in our midst an author who
bids fair to outrival not a few leaders
in the field of detective fiction? Dr.
Benge Atlee, the popular member of
the Medical School Staff, has recently
introduced to the Canadian public an
entirely new type of scientific sleuth,
who divides his time between pursuing
bacteria in his laboratory, and pursuing the criminal coterie of Montreal’s
underworld. If you have not yet made
the acquaintance of Kent Power,
scientific detective, then we heartily
recommend that you obtain a copy of
MacLean’s Magazine for last month,
and follow the adventures of this clever
sleuth in ‘‘The Silent Death’. We
would offer our humble congratulations
to Dr. Atlee for the astute and interesting way in which he spins his yarns,
and tor the sound scientific knowledge
which he subtly conveys to the reader.
Doubtlessly, we shall hear a great deal
more of Kent Power’and his methods
of assisting justice. And who knows
but what at some future date, those
ardent proselytes of detective fiction
may not reverently murmur the sacred
names of Sherlock Holmes and Kent
Power in the same breath. Here’s to
Dr. Atlee’s scientific detective—the

| more power to him!

   
   
 

Comment

 

WHAT IS EDUCATION?

The universities throughout the
country have been crowded for years,
and will continue to be even more
crowded in the future, with men an
women who attend these institutions
to acquire an intangible something
which they call education. Every
person who ever attended school was
quite sure that he did so in order that
he might become educated; but when
asked to define an education, about all
that the average student can say is
that it is the result of the work necessary to acquire a diploma. Is that, we
wonder, all there is to an education?
Is an engineer who receives a degree
from the university necessarily educated? Is the girl who leaves the university with an understanding of the subject of home economics or the athlete
who can coach a team to play ball an
educated individual?

The following article which is an
excerpt from Everett Dean Martin’s
“The Meaning of a Liberal Education”
throws considerable light on the subject: ‘‘An education is not merely one
who can do something, it is giving a
lecture on the poetry of Horace, running a train, trying a lawsuit or repairing the plumbing. He is one who
knows the significance of what he does
and ne is also one who cannot and will
not do certain things.

McGill Daily.

STYLES OF DEBATE.

Although debating occupies a high
place among undergraduate activities
at McGill, and while it is true that most
of the classes in Arts and Commerce
have organized debating leagues, yet
it is seldom that we hear our best
speakers in action against worthy opponents. The mock parliaments of
last year were interesting affairs and
afforded valuable opportunity for training in informal address, but there was
little of the really fine speaking which
a formal debate between
opponents necessitates.

That debating can be interesting and
entertaining to the audience as well as
to the speakers themselves was amply
demonstrated last winter when a McGill team composed of Abraham Klein
and Edmund Collard met two debaters
from the Knights of Columbus public
speaking class. The subject was ‘‘Resolved, That the World is Going to the
Dogs,” and an audience of five hundred
enjoyed each one of the four witty and
effective speeches.

In recent years it has been disputed
whether or not competitive debating
is the best training for a public speaker.
Many prominent debaters claim that
it is not, and advocate something a
little different which has become known
as the ‘‘Oxford-Cambridge” style. Instead of meeting in formal argument,
the speakers merely range themselves
on the sides of two leaders who, in
opening the speeches, propose and
appose the motion under discussion.
The others then follow on much after
the stvle of a round-table discussion.

In the Convocation Hall of the R.
V. C. to-morrow evening, a team of
British debaters representing’ Bristol
and Aberdeen Universities will meet
David Lewis and Fred Stone in a
formal, competitive debate on the
motion ‘‘Resolved, That Democracy
is a Failure’, The subject is an interesting one, giving all speakers wide
scope. Those who attend will see tne
competitive system of debating at its
best.— McGill Daily.

seasoned

 

Reminiscing

Antigonish, N. S,
Oct. 26, 1930.
Dalhousie Gazette:
Dear Editor:—

I notice that The Gazette lacks the
touch of a poet’s hand, so am sending
in some of the brain-childs evalued
from the inhibitions of my _ subconscious. At least, Freud, interpreted
by Prof. Symons, calls poetry the outlet of some deluded minds.

Guess whom I saw the other night—Venor Trites. There was a hot dog
roast, engineered by yours truly, at
Jimtown the local Deauville, all on a
rainy stormy night—Any way Venor
was there with a local girl who looks
like Venor’s fate.

I miss Dal and Shirreff Hall, but the
Great Wide World has its compensations, the greatest of these is freedom.
No lectures, nine ‘‘old’”’ clock classes,
exams or Herbie’s jokes,

Hope Dal will win the League this
year and be on top of the pile in everything. The students now there do not
realize that hundreds of graduates
lend silent cheers to every struggle of
the Alma Mater.

Well, here’s to Drama, Murray
Rankin, Scotch jokes and all the other
Dalhousie institutions. How is Sina
this year?

Ever the same,
“The Tatler.”
Eileen Cameron Henry,

Autumn

Someone passed this way
Sandle-shod,

And I saw to-day

Changing leaves and goldenrod.

At dusk to-night

A shadow stirred

The candlclight.

And I heard

The wind in trees,
Whispering low

Her prophesies

Of nhantots drifting snow.

Eileen Cameron Henry '29. E

t+Canadian College| Letters to the

Editor

2 Tobin St.,

| Mr. Arthur Pattillo,

 

Nov. 7th, 30.

Adopting a suggestion given by the
heading of a column in your last issue

dj am prepared to argue and take ex
Editor Dal. Gazette.
Dear Sir:

ception to the unsigned column ‘‘Someming to argue about.”

The writer wishes to know ‘why the
state of suspended animation—”’ as
regards Glee Club, and he asks ‘‘is
Glee Club to fall into a state of desuetude?”” It is not strange, if his
words are to be taken seriously, that
on the front page of the very issue in
which those questions are asked there
appeared a very favorable report of a
Glee Club show held only two nights
before.

That same unthinking writer forgets
that there had already been given by
Glee Club a show for the Freshmen
and he overlooks entirely the musical
program heard at the Pep Rally, which
was sponsored by Glee Club. Does
the writer not know that Glee Club
officers spent time and energy in endeavoring to haye a college band which
appeared this year on at least two
occasions,

The inspired author goes on to say;
‘‘Why not produce plays by Ibsen,
Shakespeare and Galsworthy.” If the
author is at all familiar with Glee Club
audiences, he should know the reception that would be and has given
to any attempt to produce any piece
of serious drama.

_ Moreover the Glee Club audience is
right, for, with the resources at hand
it is impossible to do justice to a play
by any of the great playwrights. We
have not, in the first place, many
actors at Dalhousie capable of taking
parts in such plays, and in the second
place the greatest playwrights did not
write many one-act plays and as the
author may or may not know to produce a 3 act play takes weeks and weeks
of constant practice and preparation
which the student actors cannot be
expected to give during the college
term.

_ Hoping that I have given some
indication that Glee Club is in no
‘state of desuetude’”’ I will only add
what is not generally known, namely
that tentative plans have already been
laid for a down-town revue.

If any student has views as to the
presentation of plays by the great
dramatists,which differ from both myself and the executive of glee Club!
are ready and willing to hear and heed
them if they are at all practical.

Yours truly,
R, A. Donahue,
Pres. of Glee Club.

For-the Fallen

They went with songs to the battle;
they were young,

Straight of limb, sure of eye, steady
and aglow,

They were staunch to the end against
odds uncounted,

They fell with their faces to the foe.

 

They shall not grow old, as we that
are left grow old;

Age shall not weary them or the years
condemn.

At the going down of the sun and in the
morning

We will remember them.

As the stars that shall be bright when
we are dust

Moving in marches on the heavenly
plain,

As the stars that are starry in the time
of our darkness,

To the end, to the end they remain.

LAWRENCE BINYON,

is

everything
suggests

finest

produ

 

’

i , ’ mAST ‘
> | 2 ij? vs ri i
ee Gee Ge ay Se ee = ee oa

 

1s

 

November 12th, 1930.

Through the
- Looking Glass

Quick Action.
Manners at Glee Club.

    
 

 

We understand that the editor of
the Gazette has been dragged on the
carpet by one of the socicties of this
university of ours for articles that
appeared in the last two issues of the
paper. When he protested that ne was
responsible to the Student Council
only, he was told that as a member
of this society, he came under its
jurisdiction. It is quite true that the
editor does belong to the said society,
but does that entitle it to take him to
task for articies appearing in the
Gazette? If it does, what is to prevent
the other societies from doing tikewise.
No one society has any more authority
in the university than the rest, no
matter how much it thinks it has.
The members ciaim that as a member
of the society he comes under its
control, in other words asserting that
the Gazetie, because of the fact that he
is editor, comes under its jurisdiction.
This is their argument—the editor is
responsible for everything that appears
in the paper, he in turn is responsible
to them for all his actions, therefore we
are in control of the Gazette. Did you
ever hear of anything more childish
and such reasoning coming from the
brains of those who are about to inflict
themselves on the world for a living.
I think that an intelligence test should
be given to the little children to decide
whether they are all morons or if there
are really a few fortunate ones. I
will wager that those that started the
trouble would fail dismally anyway.
This same body has been trying to
run things around the university long
enough. Are we as members of the
student body going to tolerate it any
longer? We might just as well quit
publication if we are.

May we congratulate the proper
authorities on thei: speedy action in
doing away with the pigeons at the
main entrance to the Arts building.
We are all agreed that the birds were
no ornament. The writer of this
column feels that some of the credit
for waking the authorities out of their
lethargy belongs to him. One thing
he does not understand is—why did
they have to go to the expense of
putting up a staging, etc. when a shot
gun would have done the trick. However, I suppose that there is reason for
all things and as the end has been
obtained, why worry. Freshmen, you
can now wear your new hats without
any fear!

During the singing of two solos by
Gordon Graham at the Glee Club Show
the other night, the most disgraceful
disturbance in years took place at the
back of the gym. Mr. Graham's

numbers were exceliént—even if they

had not been, there was no excuse for
the racket. We must suppose that all
students that come to the university
are possessed with a few manners. If
they have been handicapped to this
extent, at least they should watch and
observe and try to improve. Or
perhaps they do not want to learn.
That is the only conclusion that can
be reached in this case as the students
that were mainly responsible for this
racket have been at the university for
some time. I admit that it was lack
of foresight of those in charge that was
responsible, for so few seats being
arranged in the gym. Nevertheless,
those who had to stand should have
waited for the intermission to secure
their chair. Surely they are not so
old and decrepit that they cannot stand
that long. I think that it is the duty
of the offenders to address an apology
to both the artist and the audience
and to see to it that in future they at
least try to act like gentlemen.

about them
youth----
overcoats in which the

wools of England

and the very best of
Canadian workmanship are combined to

ce the perfect

young man’s garments

priced reasonably in

| the first place---and-students get a discount of ten per cent.

Shanes Mens Wear
Shop

30 Spring Garden Road, Halifax
   
 
 
    

  
  
    
   
   
    
    
    
  
 
  
  
    
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
   
    
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
    
 

SGM Ao ct a aici OT Be Bien Th igs ot pn
_ Gazette Literary
: af: Dee ‘hae ‘ x ye a
_ Points Announced
i> ia Y The following is the standin
competitors for the Gazette ‘‘D's”, as
mee, sat. the end of the year 1929-30.
___ Twenty five points are necessary before
___ an award of a gold D in the form of a
_.___- fing or watch fob is made. Points are
-. given for stories, articles and other
‘material accepted and published in the
__.-~-Gazette. The list below is compiled
____._ from the records of the previous editors
of the Gazette, George MacIntosh and
po Ben Guss.

 

*
Pit)

; : - Julius Rosenblum...-....... 21
"> Robert Kanigsberg.......... 16 1-4
Maen trelen Williams. ... 6.4: 69); 10 1-8
me Wooris, Margeson ..... 5:2... 6; 9 5-8
' Harvey Sutherland.......... 7 1-8
2 Benger rn cn an os 5 1-4
BNGH WL: . w..5 ie. 5 shad ia 5 1-4
Bemerd) on Murray...) : 4.03. oe 4
mo =) Wendell Clough. .......:.... 3
ee Mary’ Crocker. 2. 2. (yee aie 2 1-8
rR ERe CLARA. yoo icig swe dcp 2 1-8
tenest: Howse: . .).).45'c fers fy
| Sp CSAP OOM, eel) o 6 Sik 8 Wale arerens 2 1-2
om MacDonald........... 2 1-8
Me WACO HN TASET 66. 2 oot ce gine 2
ee | Phil Magonet,.. os..5 clei en a 2
".'. Mickey MacDonald......... ‘112
meee Art Sutherland... . 230.5. «-. 1 1-2
»’ | Margaret Sproull.....-..%.. 1
Gordon MacOdrum......... 1
» Mary Moore... .2 52.562. 00: 1
BOMBED ois geeks vars <crerm 4 heals 1
M. W. Hemeon............. 1
MRS EB OS so Lithe ane 5 wediw 4 44d 1
Gordon MacKinnon......... 1
Baldy Armstrong........... 1
Paul Shepherd......-....4.- 1
ey IA EE os a iare egies gold in we 1
Harold Davidson. .......... 1
George Crouse.............: 1
WEE. FOSUS A oie eis 8 ark ofalerate 3-4
ii Woe oneland. 60h. cbse’ 3-4
BIG RUS: UE 1a cw ft as Rw 3-4
Battan Sadler. ois i sce es 8-4
_ Audrey Ryan...........+.. 3-4
' Betty MacDonald.......... 3-4
Gerry Redmond..........,- 1-2
RG amierorr ii: - ei tents 8 1-2
Tom Godd@e si... .6.- 6 oy cs 1-2
_ Catherine Hebb..........-. 1-2
a Gi he Pitlnes. he eel dae ss 1-2
Jean Gardner.......-.-.++-- 1-4

 

Letter to Column. ist

To the Columnist inviting comment.

 

   
  
  
 
  
      
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
 

Bet

It is unfortunate indeed that Dal
__ housie students do not appreciate the
~*~ work done by the Compilers of the
Year Book, to help them out in buying
these books when they are ready to
be sold. We are told that ‘sixty-five
students were dishonest enough not
itp

j

    

; to li 1d a :
which they had signed,” Whether the
abe atk F | Mee aishciess is justified or not, the

feast, felt that way about it and maybe
res: tightly. “On the other hand, it may be
| that at the time they signed their names
they were flushed, enthused, and to all
rei

  

 
   
 
     
      
      
    

intent and purpose were sincere in

their desire to purchase these books
—but that was the Psychological time
that the books should have been sold
and paid for. ;

Coming now to something more in
the line of prevention rather than of
tearful post mortems. There is a way
that the producers of the year book
can know long in advance that the
Year Book will be a financial success,
and that way is to sell them before they
start printing them. Good idea, but
how are you going to do it, and the
answer lies in the Co-eds of Shirreff
Hali.

Mark Anthony could not resist the
charms of our old friend Cleo because
the poor boy forgot that there was such
a place as Rome. She sold him the
idea that Egypt was a nice place to
vacation in and that she, Cleo, wasn't
such a bad little girl to play with and
—neither was she if you can believe all
you learn in History I. |

Well here is the idea, if you haven't
guessed it already. I suggest that the
girls of Shirreff Hall form teams, Wildcats, Tigers, etc., each team to have a

~ Captain and that the Year Book ComBy mittee give loving cups to the teams
that sell the most books, What Co>  _s ed, with h r come hither look, cannot
make a boy buy a year book? Sell
with sex appeal, should be the battle
 ery—and it will be a battle to sell at
__ the Forrest Building. !

So Mr. Columnist if my suggestion
is worth anything, its yours, and if
the Co-ed take it up they will soon find
out how they rate with the other half.
Ta Yours for success,
ae A. Philip Magonet,

eit
_ Words of Wisdom

ao

         
       
        
       
        
          
      
     
     
         
     
     
     
     
   
     
      
    
   
    
       
    
 

   

   

 

The devil himself knoweth not the
‘mind of Man.

. Bi . Brian C. J,
el,

-_—-—s*‘Virtue doesn’t exist without a wit
ness.
ae La Rouchefoucauld.

 

 
 

i
+

 
 

ed

fa Ml Know Thyself.

 

Solon.

ae.
x
*

_ Time deals gently only with those
_who take it gently.

rit
Pte
é

oe.

Anatole France.

  

Sa
>

 

  

vi 4
/ if
_ _ Prof: Would you like to take
Dt eS Oey < a
«Girl: ~Deon’t bacilli—don’t bacilli.
re, | . Ex.
He: T’ve J illed Lions in Africa.
She Gc), Did you tread on

ree » = - W
raf ; a
OU , a Li
¢ ‘

Jest for Fun

;
4
1 ae
”
‘ah
i

   
 
  

a ae

 
  
 

at

live up to a contract and agreemcnt |
y had signe

‘ le who had charge of the work, at|

es ee A
} wean Hid!

0m

ae ee ee eee

oo

Senior Busketh l

‘Prospects _

eke =

mediate Basket-ball teams and those

‘interested in basketball at Dalhousie

held a meeting in the Dal gymnasium
yesterday at noon, when plans for the
coming season’s campaign were discussed. It was decided to hold the
first practice next Monday evening and
thereafter at regular periods. All of the
members of the last year’s senior squad
are back again, and there are a number
of newcomers to the university who
will doubtless secure berths on the

jteam. Don McRae, who starred at

center last year, is the new captain,
Sam Fairstein and Harold Davidson
who have been playing senior for
the last three years, are back again
in Medicine, Charlie Anderson and
Harry Handler, first guards, are in
the game again this year. Big Jim
McLeod, Alex Nickerson, and Russell
McLellan, alternative forward line
are all at the university. Among the
newcomers are Duncan McKenzie,
three years on the senior Acadia
team and captain of that team two
years ago; Cliff Murray, who has
played with Acadia and Sydney;
Ernie Richardson, of the Y. Intermediate team and a number of high
school stars.

The team is particularly fortunate
this year in that C. P, Cunningham,
who played two years intercollegiate
and two years professional basketball
and who at present is located in Halifax,
has consented to assist in rounding the
basketball team into shape. They are
getting away to an early start. The
first workouts will consist of P. T. work
and this will be followed by short
practice periods, There is a possibility of the team being ready for a
short tour during the Christmas
vacation.

 

Girls Basketball

The first basketball game of the
girls’ Inter-class League was played on
Tuesday evening October 21st, between
the Sophmores and Freshettes. The
score was 26-4 in favor of the Fieshettes.

The line up:

Sophmores—Forwards, Margaret
Montgomery, Irene Matheson; Guards,
Betty Webster, Pat Cann; Centres,
Marion Morton, Isabel Chipman.

Freshettes:

Forwards, Betty Cunningham, Frances Foster, Ruth Crandall; Guards,
Gladys Jost, Mary Wylie; Centres,
Mary Simmons, Merley! Clancy.

 

 

 

CommerceDefeats
Medicine in Interfaculty Game

Commerce handed Medicine a five
to nothing trimm!ng in a regular Interfaculty fixture played on the Studley gridiron lasf week. The game was
fast and fairly interesting, with the
winners, reinforced by two profs, having
slightly better of the territory. The
only score of the game occurred in the
second period, when Bob Brown of
Commerce, following upa long punt
crossed Medicines line on a nice run.
Prof. ‘‘Big Jim’’ MacDonald added the
two extra points with a pretty kick
from a difficult angle. Medicine staged
a heavy offensive in an endeavor to
break into the scoring column, but although they reached their opponents’
five-yard line several times, they failed
to get across. The game ended with
the .core 5-0. For the winners, ‘Big
Jim’? MacDonald and B. Stoddard
were outstanding, while Brady, Gibbon
and Piercey showed up well for the
losers. Sandy McLeod refereed in an
efficient manner.

Ice Sports at

| _ Dalhousie

Members of the Senior and Inter-| The last important football game

of this season has been payed and the
time is rapidly approaching when the
thud of pigskin will be replaced by the
click of skates and the clash of hockey
sticks. Uponthe inter-collegiate gridiron Dalhousie has been consistently
victorious. The optimistic are hoping
that the University, with the new
material this years class has presented,
will make a better showing on the ice
than that made during the last few
years.

Dalhousie is, in regard to hockey and
skating, very unfortunate. Mount Allison, Acadia and St. Francis Xavier
all have their own rinks and obtain for
their students adequate ice privileges
at a nominal cost. Dalhousie is the
leading university in Eastern Canada,
and hockey is Canada’s national sport.
Yet ice sports at Dalhousie stagnate
each winter although they belong to
the only season that is entirely within
the college term. This University

—_—<$<————

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

Law, Holds Arta] Ground Hockey |

To 3-3 Tie

On Tuesday the 4th, Law tied Arts
3 all in the final interfaculty football
ee of their section. The game was

ard fought and play seesawed up and
down a good deal with Arts on thc
offensive most of the time. Their
three-quarter line, made some nice
runs. Cnarley Anderson especially was
hard to stop. However, tne lawyers
wno were dogged if not graceful, offered
stubborn opposition. At half-time
there was no score, although Arts had
the better of the play. The second
period was more even. The Law
scrum was superior, heeling cleanly,
while the Arts scrum often broke up
too soon. Law was the first to score
after pressing for a few minutes, Then
Arts kicked off and went down the field
like a procession. After several scrums
right on the line, they made a touchdown in the middle of a pile of
humanity. After that the play was in
Arts tetritory.

As a result of this game, Law has

should have a rink and, at least, should | Won its section of the league and will

contract with an existing rink that
Dalhousie students may have the same
priveleges enjoyed by the students of
the other Maritime Universities. A

 

play off with Commerce for the championship. It is too bad the Lawyers
have rot several playing professors or
second team men among their numbers

drive for funds has been planned by | but at least they are not discouraged
the Board of Governors, and awaits|by the opposition they contemplate.

only the passing of the present business
depression to go into action. The
appropriate measures ought to be
taken now by the Students Council to
try to have a Rink Fund included
among the objectives of this drive, or
to ensure that a portion of the money
secured be alloted to this purpose.
Dalhousie wants a good hockey team and
a good hockey team cannot exist with
out a rink where it can have regular and |

frequent practices.

In the meantime, there is much that
can be done. The Student Body can
be made more actively interested in
ice sports by frequent and better Dalhousie Rinks nights. Last year the
intentions of tnose in charge may
bcen good; probably they were limited
only by the faciities given them. But
the student, in the absence of expianation can judge only by what was
accomplished, and last year the ice
program was a complete failure. Altogether, there was one Dalhousie skating
night at the Forum. On another
night a short session was held after a
hockey game; that was too insignificant to be counted. And even that
one night was unsatisfactory and not
actually a Dalhousie night, because the
general public was admitted as at any
other session. The ice was so crowded
by outsiders that skating was practically impossible. It is not to be expected
that any enthusiasm will be aroused
under such conditions for our leading
winter sport. In years gone by, Dalhousie skating nights were much more
frequent. During the last two years
they have diminished in number almost
to the vanishing point. This year
should witness a reformation. The
1930-31 budget indicates by the absence
of the rink item that its amount has
not yet been decided upon. Let the
grant be an ample one. Free admission to two football games cannot
have exhausted the whole of the increase in this years fee. Five Dalhousie skating nights are the least that
ought to be expected. According to
the Gazette the matter has been delegated to the D. A. A. C. That overworked committee has enough already
to attend to; this subject is as deserving of a special committee as was the
Council Dance.

A skating Committee could investigate fully the advantages and disavantages of the two rinks, the Forum
and the New Arena. Possibly a contract could be formed with one of the
two for one Dalhousie night each week
Every night would not have to be free;
a nominal admission could be charged.
Although the Forum is the larger rink
and to be relied on in mild weather,
the Arena has some advantages in
band music and in cold weather, in
natural ice, If the Forum be selected,
a band should be secured. These
items should be looked into by a committee appointed for the purpose.

 

 

 

    

‘

_
2
S
6

O57?
5 be Se4

Et ieks ik iL i oN Jet

ae, Rit WG A 2! b
pala A ade ta

Pit Os eh ae |

ey peel
\ ¥ As P

 
 
 

Dy Gauville’s
Deities Girls

 

Garden Road

as
—_———$_ et

———aaet

 

Betas {was made

 

Commerce Wins

Track Meet

The men of Commerce successfully
clinched their hold on the position of
leadership in the Interfaculty Track
Meet on Tuesday, Nov. 4th, when
they annexed all points in the running
broad jump and won the 1 miles relay
in very fast time.

The relay team for the Commercials
up by Ort. Hewat, Bob
Brown, Murray Zinck and Bob Miller,

and the event was won in 3 min 60

secs. The results of the running broad
follow:
Int. “Hewat: 5.0.5.5 5 4 18’ 93”
and. bapley ...'. ..0. + 3 is?
Sra BLOW we sles 4 <u: 18’ 63 ”

ame, 2s & g e/a 6 © 06» 6's 6 eo a's £

Girls Basketball

On Tuesday night, Oct. 4th, at the
first practice for basketball, there was a
turnout of 56 girls, many of whom were
freshettes. Since much good material
was brought to light, this year will in
all probability be a “banner’’ one,
With such interest being shown, the
Inter-class League should prove very
keen, and the number of teams available will be a big help to keep the
senior team, when picked, on its toes
to remain the best. All of last year’s
team except its captain, Pauline Miller,
are back, so with such quality and
quantity, our basketball annals should
be a tale of triumphs.

 

 

Value

in Fine Clothes!

 

The costly appearance and
quality of National clothes
place them in a class so
far above their price {that
there is no basis for comparison...... they establish
an undisputed standard Of
value without precedent in
clothing history of Canada

One 2 wae y
Price Wear

se

| NATIONAL

‘CLOTHES SHOP

446 Barrington Street.

 

o

 

Owing to the unpleasant weather of
the past three or four days, the Girl’s
Ground Hockey Match scheduled to
take place Saturday afternoon at
Windsor, had to be postponed until
the following week.

Gym classes will begin after ground
hockey is over. ,

 

Page Three

~

The gymnasium will be available
for the girls to play Badminton on
Monday and Wednesday afternoons
from 2.30 until 4 o’clock, and on Friday until 4.30.

Notices are in the Arts Building
and Shirreff Hall. Sign quickly in
order to have your name among those
entered for the ladder tournament.

Racquets and birds are supplied.

 

Turret Hath Charms!

eff

ae Ae
Saw ~~

= ot

Tey CET N i
SG

TUR

mild and fragrant

Cigarettes
Save the valuable ‘‘POKER HANDS” ;

The New

Fall Society Brand

    
       
  
 

His driving was all
wrong—but his
cigarettes were all
right — Turrets, of
course — with their
exceptional quality,
smoothness and
flavour.

RET

 

 

styles are advanced, correct and
distinguished. The woolens are

rich, strong and exclusive.

workmanship is the last word in
quality and expertness, and in
cludes exclusive tailoring features
like the SNUG-EASE SHOULDER
and the VAC BLOC ARMHOLE

You obtain greater value for your dollar in Society
Brand Clothes than in any other make we know of

Winter - Burns, Ltd

439 BARRINGTON STREET.
—Iis the cut of your clothes thai counis—

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND
The
Halifax Daily Star

The
fastest growing
newspapers in
Nova Scotia

 

     
       
       
   
  
 
  
  

The

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are-smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax.

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

21 Spring Garden Road

    
  
       
    
   

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one. ,
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

  
 
  
    

   

       

 

 

td) a
“Isabel Wood
_ Intosh spent the week-end with Peg
Sproull in Stellarton.
_ Feddy Dorman and Muriel Lawrence
were the guests of Evangeline Crouse
p: 7 : aa home in Bridgewater, during the
Tihs AO =
Be os Edith Allen was the guest of her
sister in Saint John over the Thanksx ea F ving ‘ : Oo he
ae Peude Hemphell and Lilias Macnald spent. the week-end with Jean
ve in New Glasgow. —reen Harper went to Truro for

|) the

   
  
    
  
 
  
     
  
 
  
  
 
  
    
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
     
 
   
  

holidays, with Katherine Moxon.
-_- Ruth Crandall visited relatives in
Wolfville for Thanksgiving.

 

_ Officers Of The
or , Medical Classes
fea

t
a / PS

.
é

 

a vm" A. i a 5 x : .

~~. -Tt_is customary that each class in
_~—-s Medicine annually elect officers to
H - cooperate with the executive of the

+ 1 ; % - . »
| i ary medical society and to take charge
4 ” oN <e

oe

«

of all matters affecting their respective
Puce ALS ars.
ny as The officers for this year have been
ee age announced as follows: _ |
_-—s Ast. year—President—lIan Fraser.
Beet ars. | Secretary—Ganesh Sawh.
_  ——s« Bnd. year—President—Kenneth Para hy sons.
oi ae Secretary—George Covert.
. 8rd year—President—Gordon Mcij Curdy (re-elected).
mt Vice-Pres.— Donald Thom. * pson.
, - Wee Secretary—Richard Monaee i

‘¥ n.
4th =year—President—Frank Hebb
| (re-elected), .

Sth year—President—Eddie Ross.
Secretary—‘‘Tabby”’ Beth
une,

_ As smoke in careless drifts~
_ WhyshouldI seek
_ That men explain to me
_ Whence all this perfect God

Of mystery. Ex
__ -‘Their giver of strange gifts
Why should I try
ore! To see beyond the mask
That death so gaily wears—
Or even ask

   
 

A
5

be
4

     
 
 
  
  
     
 
   
  

\ aa
emg

re e
i

   

i

_-~——-—,s Where my own lot is castf _ Why should I speak
Br gen, And laugh, or even smile,
_ When after all who cares
Are such worth while,
Or heeds me while they last
So much more easy waiting

For life to fill its age,

And death, the one to turn

The last thin page

That ends all time for me,

And shows me God

And calm eternity—

Or maybe just a space.

Then life will wait

For me to leave

Though by what gate,

Or to what place,

She only knows,

While somewhere near,

I know [ll hear

Death laughing up her sleeve.
BC. Hi

 

Tigers Tied One-
Continued from page 1°

moments of the game Drover took a
nice pass from Art Sutherland to go
over for the only Dal score, Davidson

 

ner a Dr. McLellan, [Coach]
. failing to convert by a narrow margin

from the corner of the 25 yard line.
Bernie Currie handled the game.

_ Line-up of the Dal Team
____ Forwards—Cooper, Stewart, Baird,
~~ ~-Woolner, Magonet, McRae, Townsend, Grant, McLeod.
--——__ Halves—A. Sutherland, V. Maxwell,
. ” ao Hi; Davidson, ;

_ . Three Quarters—D. © Thompson,
ma oie Baeley: H. Sutherland, Drover, G.
_ dhompson,—
¥e o3 | back—I, Fraser .

> a at Tl i = .
Sa aise oy T

{¢"?

     

rt

y
s
a he e+e
‘ +

and Marion Mac-|

‘

Dal has finished her rugby season as
far as the Senior team goes and really
made a very creditable showing.
They captured second place in the
Halifax City League, winning two
games and losing two. In a series of
three exhibition games, they won one,
tied one and lost one. Scoring thruout the season 60 points as compared
to 41 scored against them.

The Cubs have yet to lose a game and
will contest Kings, this week, for the
title of the Intermediate League.

Ian Fraser played a whale of a game
against Legion Guards and repeated
in like manner against Caledonia,
where he was kept busy.

McCarthy, coach of the Caledonia
team, has been talking for a number
of years about starting a school for
Rugby referees. We might add that
he should begin at home.

Bye-bye, folks, must hang up our
shoes until next season.

 

Dictatorship
vs. Democracy

We were told by our Imperial visitors
that if we threw aside our prejudices
for a moment we would realize what an
excellent form of government a dictatorship might be. Undoubtedly it possesses features which highly recommend it™to those who look for better
things. :

There’s the place it gives to leadership. Many do not approve, of what
Mussolini is doing in Italy but the fact
is that he is doing something. Dictatorship offers an efficiency in execution of
the duties of government that is
equaled nowhere.

But what is more the dictator is
the fcéal point for the collective consciousness of nis followers. He is the
symbol of their cause. In him are
unified the ideals and aims of every
member and. citizen. Their identity
‘is therefoie distinct, their position is
readily perceived. oa

This is of tremendous importance
in the activity of any body, state or
party. It gives moral equality to both
thought and action.
both the lowly and the great.

‘Dictatorship does not mean a passive people weakly submitting to the
oppression of a despot. It means an
active and united people participating
in a course of action indicated by their
leader, willing in unity of purpose
what he wills, striving to accomplish
their common end. There is no moial
stagnation. Its keynote is not submission, it is self-asse1tion and sacrifice.

These virtues are evident in those
dictatorships which exist at present.
Rasceism is a world force which it is
deceiving to belittle, for elements of
value account for its rise.

The democratic institutions of post
war Italy were young and insecurely
established. She was therefore among
the first nation to enter the wilderness
of skepticism. From this Mussolini
led the way—other nations still linger.
Never did a prophet answer a sorer
need.

The case is not greatly different in
other countries. Never was action
more urgently required yet never was
the impossibility of getting anything
done more apparent. Small wonder
that we look askance upon our governmental machinery and our politicians.
Deliberate action and definite purpose
are woefully lacking, unbelief rests like
a pall where conviction once held sway.

Is it true that Italy points a better
way? What of Dictatorship as a
form of government? Unfortunately
it is limited to the virtues enumerated.

Moreover, the natural course of
events seldom calls them into operation. Our difficulties do not give rise
to a “cause.” The creation of a
“cause” usually serves to confuse
rather than to clatify or solve. Witness Mussolini struggles to identify
himself with the course of Italian
nationalism and his exploitation of
every means to crystalize opinion in his
favour. Much of what he has done
is of value to his country, but there is
no similar purpose to be served in our
national life.

Our politics are certainly not an
inspiring spectacle. Everyone seems
to be wavering in indecision. Nevertheless it is better to think one’s way
through difficulties than to ardently
press where we may not want to go.

In general the merit of our democracy is that it works. It may creak
and groan and wobble but it works
just the same. We may say of the

ascist and his clan what we say of the
Socialist. They botn assume principles
that run contrary to those of human
nature. Upon such a basis they cannot

rest securely.
W. DAUPHINEE.

Personals

Marie Ferguson visited Polly Burris
in Shubenacadie during the holiday.

Gladys Jost was the holiday guest of
Betty March, in New Glasgow.

Helen Mackie spent part of the weekend with Helen Nelson in Stewiacke
Helen Nelson then went to New Glasgow. where she was the guest. of Tillie
Grant. Connie Mackie is visiting

) Helen at the Hall.

It stimulates.

 

____..._ DALHOUSIE
Boxing Meet
Proposed

 

Workouts Every Friday

Night

In order to stimulate interest in

tournament is bein
end of this month.

will be arranged and lively entertainment will be provided the spectators.
There are at Dalhousie several men
who would be strong contenders for
Interfaculty honours in the spring if
they started training at once. The
fact that boxing is now recognized as
a major sport should encourage these
dark horses to go after a ‘‘D”’ in
earnest.

Boxing at Dalhousie after its successful revival last year is off to a splendid
start with a score of enthusiasts turning out every Friday night. Mr.
Stirling puts them through a general
routine of exercises followed by shadow
boxing, wrestling and then heavy bag
punching.

—_——_+>-e__—_

Senior: What size shoe do you wear?

Frosh: Size two and a half.

Senior; What? |

Frosh: Yeah, two cowhides and
half a keg of nails.

 

Expects Strong
Hockey Team

for Dalhousie

 

Waeea eee
Manager

PERMANENT WAVE

Ringlets Ends $10.00

Regular $15.00 wave for $10.00
on the ‘‘Keen’’ machine
which recently won major
honors at Philadelphia against
the world’s best. No better
wave at any price. Marceling Finger Waving and Bobbing.

Shield’s Beauty Parlor

510 ROY BUILDING
PHONE B.6748

 

 

CASINO

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
NOV. 13-14-15

“MEN OF THE
NORTH”

WITH
GILBERT ROLAND
BARBARA LEONARD

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
NOV. 17-18-19

“THE
VIRTUOUS SIN”

With WALTER HUSTON
KAY FRANCIS

A Change Is Good
For Everybody

 

 

Why not a meal or
.. lunch atthe ..
GREEN LANTERN

occasionally ? ae

The Green Lantern

 

. < =e ee
Sn a ee ee ee a ee

eS

p can j e , Clot, 7: a ae

GAZETTE

themselves to

work of the boys.

Sproule, 2nd, Fred MacDonald (Pictou

Academy Scholarship and First, Sir
Beveridge.
| boxing and discover new talent, a} Don Stewart won a special scholarship
planned for the|and the Newfoundland Government

If the plans|Scholarship of $1000 together with a
materialize, seven or eight good bouts] special Dalhousie scholarship goes to

William Young), Rogers,

Clark, another Pine Hiller,

little done to obtain one.

major sports,

Pine Hill | Sport Briefs

Incidentally, we are a modest lot,
but did you notice that six of the
entrance scholarships for the first year
went to new residents of Pine Hill?
These winners were Archibald, Ist,

Basketball is getting into its regular
strike now that the players can devote
it entirely.
Don McRae is very pleased with the

Much talk has been heard around
the college on the desirability of a
paid coach at Dalhousie, but very
There is a
man in the Maritimes who can fill
the bill in every respect for all three
A little action, students!

November 12th, 1930

eS eenatinniondied — —-— -——

 

Interfaculty Rugby championship
game takes place to-day at noon.
Commerce and Law are the contestants
and a good game is assured. These
boys fight hard and never give up.
Come out and cheer your faculty on
te! to victory.

Captain

 

Engineers to Hold
Dance

 

The Engineers are planning to hold
their annual dance on January 12th,
according to Madame Rumour.

 

    

FRI. and SAT.

 

Formal Wear --
Old wine improves with age. . . but not so with
a Tuxedo or Dress suit ... for what the moths
may miss... . time changes.

If your Tux is of the 1920 vintage. .

.. It most

likely has a vent half way up the back that
marks it passe, and who would be out of date
when “ Corract Dress ”’ is important.

Nowadays every man’s wardrobe no matter how
small, needs a Tux and ours are so reasonably
priced there is hardly a reason for delaying the
purchase of a new one.

Ready to wear or tailored to measure—you can
be sure of getting ‘“‘Correct’’ Dress clothes

Bere hac Jt

Priced .... from $30.00 and up.

Colwell

Brothers

Limited

‘ON YOUR BACK’

With IRENE RICH

RAYMOND HACKETT

Next MON, and TUES.

‘THE BENSON MURDER

CASE’

WITH
WILLIAM POWELL

WED. and THURS.

RUTH CHA1TERTON

Halifax, N. S.

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

IDEAL FACILITIES FOR

IN
‘ANYBODY’S WOMAN’

DRUGS

STUDENTS SUPPLIES

MacLeod-Balcom, Ltd

CHEMISTS

OPPOSITE

Bank of Nova Scotia

AND

St. Andrew’s Church

 

If You Want to See Well

See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician

Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

\For Good Athletes

Those whv demand the
best in Sporting Equipment unanimously agree
that our goods cannot be

SE ee a

GOOD EQUIPMENT §
—

;

 

and sizes 5% to 11.

nett

Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

 

Canlerburp
SHOES FOR MEN

Pair $9.00

Weare proud of the Canterbury Shoe—it is sogood looking
and wears so well, yet it is very moderately priced. Styles
include both boots and oxfords, made from fine quality
black and brown and kid leather.

Widths from AA to EE

Eatons—Second Floor.

“T. EATON.

O
LIMITED

 

 

ee

 

Saieeeee fw

<

os
