   
     
 
  

  

~
eo

A.

he. —
oe

>

1

a aN; x Le
Ving?
» il
hd
a
ae
ee
yom
b ma
ees
ihe
a. .
"a
<?
i
og
Ne ¥

city have to be hired in order to make
; A

»

    
  


<=.
'

 

 

_ | Tickets $3.00
<4 ~ JOE MILLS

 

 

i

‘

latest D.

4
>

a respectable showing. Owing to lack
es of Finda*these players cannot be hired
on Saturday for

Bib Ry be cancelled at all future games.
Surely we have students who are
musicians and who are willing to
_ sacrifice one afternoon a week, so that

4

| Pep Meeting Will Be Held In Gym.

. students to think I am trying to say

Dalhousie fans was the cause of the

mot turning out.

ee?

| £434
VOL. LXIV.

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 15rua, 1930.

 

No. 2

 

 

A.A.C. President Urges
_ The Support Of Students) 4 jayecses Coeds

 

To Stir Up Enthusiasm

 

a

Show Your College Spirit

 

As President of the D. A. A. C. I
have a message for bothe co-eds and
male students. Those of you who
attended the football game between
Dal and Wanderers on Saturday Oct.
4th, saw our gridiron stars go down to
defeat. Now I do not want the

that the lack of cheering from the

defeat. But those of you who have
taken part in various branches of
athletics, have an idea what effect the
ch.ering has on the team asa whole.
The male students are handicapped
at Dalhousie University on account of
not having a Residence, such as the
co-eds have. At Acadia and Mount
A. for example, we find every member
of the student body at the gamcs.
They support the cheer leaders in
their respective yells and in so doing
help cheer the team to victory. Here
at Dalhousie we have a larger student
body, and ir everybcdy who turns out
for the games will only co-operate and
work together we, will get somewhere.
Don’t wait for the fellow next to you
to start, vee the cheer leader
who is doing his best.
Mr. Singes and Mr. Richard Donahoe
have tried every method to fill the
vacancies of last years band. But all
their work has been in vain. As a
result of the students who can play
Players trom tne

the Mt. A.game. The
result being that we will be without the
“services of a band. If we do not get
the students to help, the band will have

i
a

we can keep Dalhousie on a par with
other colleges in the Maritimes. __

As.a last resort, and at the 11th hour,
we are going to try to get some college
spirit aroused for the game with Acadia.
This is an important game for Dalhousie, so, please note the following.

A short Glee Club show will be held
in the gym at 80’clock Thursday Oct.
16 after which the students will have a
chance to show if there is any conver
spirit left in them. Following the
“Pep” meeting a dance will be held.
This meeting will show who are true
Dalhousians and who are interested in
the college activities.

Last year the Pep meeting held
before the Acadia game proved a

success,
JIM McLEOD

 

Class Meetings

The first meeting of Class '32 was
held on October 8th, with the viceresident Teddy Dorman taking charge.

he resignations of the president Ken
Mahen, treasurer Jack Mahar and
Chairman of the social committee were
read. After the election of new
officers took place, the results were as
follows: President: Charlie Lorway,
Treasurer: Paul Silver, and Chairman
of the Social Committee: Drummond
McGregor. The new president took
the chair, and brought up the matter of
Class Fees. The one dollar fee was
adopted unanimously. On motion the
meeting adjourned.

The class of ’83 held a meeting on
October 7th, the purpose of which was
to elect a Secretary in place of Marion
West, and to discuss the matter of fee
and also the Freshie-Soph Dance.
Polly Burris was elected Secretary, and
the two dollar fee was adopted. With
regard to the dance, it was decided to
hold it on Monday October 18th, in the
Gymnasium. Laurie Hart was placed

in charge of the Social Committee to
look after the arrangements. The
meeting then adjourned.

The].

 

 

On Debating Tour

 

TREVOR LLOYD.

Bachelors Narrowly Avert
Disaster

In an interesting debate last Thurs
 

day night in the Munro Room, Mr.
Tommy Goudge and Miss Lillian
Sadler successfully contradicted the
principle that bachelors should by
taxed. The
‘Resolved that this house favours a
tax on Bachelors.”
was upheld by Miss Elizabeth Murray
and Mr. John Denoon.

resolution was worded

The affirmative

Mr. Denoon opened the debate.
After defining the terms to be used, he

outlined the daily life of a bachelor.
The bachelor, according to Mr. Denoor

enjoys a state of freedom and happiness
that is not possessed by a married man.
While the husband and father hugs the
fireside his more fortunate celibate
brother is enjoying the masculine
liberty of his club, and tne society of
his male cronies. No family troubles
mar his bliss. It is not for him to
worry because a woman must wear
last year’s hat, or because the domestic
cupboard is sadly depleted. A tax
from bachelors is only a fair compensation to married men.

Women ought to favour such a tax,
for under it the male could no longer
ignore them. They would have a
keen wedge with which to force the
recalcitrant man into matrimony.

Miss Sadler opened the case for the
negative. Her opponents, said Miss
Sadler, were not original in proposing
tortures for the poer bachelor; for in
ancient Sparta they were dragged
about the streets and subjected to
much other abuse.

Bachelors may be divided into several]
classes; those who have been disappointed in love; those who are financially incompetent; those who are personally objectionable to women; those who
are idealist and cannot find their model
woman. Where is the justification for
taxing them? It is unfair to tax disappointment, poverty, personal defects,
or idealism; and these are the qualities
that make bachelors. To bachelors
we are indebted for the greater part of
our romance, for the touching ballads
of disappointed love, and for the fine
conception of connubial bliss that
dies with realization. Finally, the
bachelor goes down in loneliness to his
grave, leaving his accumulated wealth
to charity. Here is nothing to be
censored, but much to be pitied.

Miss Murray continued the cause of
the affirmative. Bachelors are a weak
Continued on page 4.

 

 

_| and his Orchestra

 

 

SS
ssl
—————

 

Mion., Oct. 27 
 

Professor Angus

of Cambridge

Shirreff Hall was greatly honoured
on Tuesday evening by the presence
of Dr. Angus, Professor of Classics
at Cambridge University. Immediately after dinner he gave an address on
Student Life at Cambridge dealing
especially with the feminine side of it.

He began by saying that up until
1820 there were no women at the
University, at that date a college two
and one half miles from Cambridge
was started to which a few women
came. At the end of Queen Victoria’s
reign there were two of these houses.
The men were only allowed to see the
women on certain days at which time
they presented their card at the door
telling who they were, then they were
escorted into a room under hostile
eyes, when the woman came both were
seated and their conversation was
watched from behind glass doors.

At first the men held their lectures
by themselves, later women attended
the same classes but sat apart from the
male students. If there should be
only one woman she must be accompanied by a chaperone. Since the war
many of these customs have been
changed.

Continuing his address he said that
today at Cambridge there are seventeen men’s colleges arranged on nonparallel streets and two women’s
colleges, one fifteen, the other thirtyfive minutes walk fron the University.

One great difference between this
college and ours is that after ten o’clock
no one can leave the grounds ‘and no
one but a student can enter. After
this hour there are many heart to hear
talks around the fire among the professors and students.

There have been many discussions in
reeent years whether women should be
allowed to enter Cambridge. Those
who are against co-education say that
first there is more freedom and time
to work at men’s colleges; secondly
that some profs are too susceptible to
women’s charms. and on examination
give them 5% more than they deserve
and lastly most women are not good
students, they believe too much what
they are told. Even today at Cambridge men don’t like women at their
lectures and for this reason a straw
vote was taken, the result was 10 to 1
against women students. The great
number who voted against them were
doctors, who said women were spoiling
the medical course as they take the
best seats and get all the attention.

The Student Christian Movement
was the first society to have men and
women at its meetings. Since then
there hasn’t been the great division
between the two sexes, whether or not
it is for the better advantage of the
college is a matter of private opinion.

Dal. vs. Acadia on Sat.

 

 

Law Society Does|]mperial Debaters to Arrive
in City on Friday

Honor to Angus
MacDonald

On Tuesday morning, November 6th,
a special meeting of the Law Society
was held in the Moot Court Room.
The purpose of the meeting was to do
honor to Dr. Angus L. MacDonald
because of his recent election to the
leadership of the Liberal party in this
province. Mr. presided.
Mr, A. R. Lusby moved the resolution
of congratulation.

The intense enthusiasm occasioned
by Dr. MacDonalds election, Mr.
Lusby said, ended in Liberal ranks the
despondency that had prevailed there
since the last Federal election, Liberals are out of power, both in this
province and in Ottawa; their fortunes seemed, lately, at an unusually
low ebb. But, with the advent of
Angus L. MacDonald to their leadership, with his youth, his energy, and
his ambition, all of the erstwhile
optimism and confidence have returned.
The bonny Scot of old Sir Walter
entered the world with the blue bonnet
on his head, and a dirk at his side.
Our bonny Scot entered the world with
a Liberal pamphlet in his hand and a
political speech in his mouth. He has
attained ample experience. During the
last election he put up a splendid contest in Inverness County, and the
terrific spasm of Conservatism that
then shook the country was alone responsible for his defeat. Last week he
won promotion by reason of his talents,
his culture and his personality, over
the heads of men who are older than
he is and who were earlier in public
favour. Dr. MacDonald's election was
his well-won desert.

Not only do Liberal partisans rejoice, but every responsible citizen also
rejoices; Mr. MacDonald is the type
of politician that our country needs in
the ranks of both parties. And youth
will rejoice; for here is a token, that
youth will be served, and that age is
no longer a prerequisite to political
advancement, Henceforth we may
expect a new vigour in our public life,
a new determination, a more generous
outlook; these will lead to batter and
better government. }

Finally the Dalhousie Law School
takes a deep personal satisfaction from
Dr. MacDonald’s success. His associations with the School have been
long and happy ones. To every
student, First year or Third year, he
has been an intimate friend; and
whatever his political fortunes may
hereafter be, Dr. MacDonald will
always be proudly pointed out by the
Law Students as a product of their
School. Mr. Dwyer seconded the
motion,

The resolution was passed in an
acclamation that attested its sincerity

Dr. MacDonald gave his thanks in
a brief address.

 

 

Continued on page 4.

 

   

Dalhousie’s Representatives

 

 

ERNEST HOWSE.,

THE

VIED. DANCE

Lord Nelson Hotel

TIP. M.

WiLLiIAM JOST.

 

 

 

Messrs. Lloyd and Mitchell to Land
at Noon and Speak Same Evening

¢

 

Visiting Debater

 

«

JOHN MITCHELL.

Freshmen Given
Last Initiation
Rites

 

The last item in the initiation programme for the freshies was endorsed
last Tuesday evening when the Sophomores, in a most gracious fashion,
put the verdants through the third
and last degree.

To tell all that went on would be
to divulge the secrets of many a weeks
planning on behalf of the Sophomores.
Suffice it to mention that there was a
superabundance of paddlers to welcome
the guests as they arrived. By far
the most interesting procedure was to
see the Sophs assume the role of
Surgeons for the initial step in the initiation, which called for an ‘‘operation of
grave importance.’’ It was indeed
ludicrous to see how adept the blindfolded Freshies were at _ climbing
ladders, playing blind man’s bluff and
numerous other roles required of them.

The critical time came when most
of the Freshman class came thundering
in and saw their brethren being put
through the hazing. For a time it
looked as if the old fistic encounters
would once again dominate in a hazing
but due to the coolheadedness of Don
Grant, Freshman Representative this
was averted,

The hazing was finally completed
and let it here be said the sportsmanship exhibited by these newcomers in
taking their medicine, won the praise
of all the spectators and even the
admiration of the Sophomores. Dick
Squires then presented each freshman

with the Dalhousie colours and a
parade of both classes through the
downtown = streets. followed. This

parade ended with the usual results,
namely Theatre and Ice Cream Parlour,
crashing, the removal of the Spring
Garden Road Cannon, taking the
trolleys off the street cars, but in addition, the brilliant idea of having
some fun with the city force was thought
up. Somehow or other the _ local
guardian of the Law resented being
made the laughing stock, and when one
Soph tried to embrace him—well, that
was just a wee bit too much. After a
little explanation, all was well once
more and thus the last chapter in the
History of .the Freshman Initiation
was written, signed and delivered.
——_—_4--___

Elizabeth Owen of Kings College,
has resumer her studies again, after
an enjoyable year abroad in Switzerland.

Special

 

—_———..

Large Audience Expected

 

The records of the debaters
speak here on Friday form
record of achievement not only in de.
bating circles but alsc in other spheres
of College achievements.

H. Trevor Lloyd, nominee of the
National Union of Students of England
and Wales, (of which Union he is VicePresident) graduated in Geology and
Geography from -the University of
Bristol, where he has spent the past
year 1n post graduate work in Education.
During the last three years he has
represented his University in debates
in various parts of the United King

who
an Imposing

dom. He met the Canadian Team in
Bristol in 1928. Mr. Lloyd's university activities have extended from

debating to football, and have included
many executive offices, At Bristol, he
played upon the University Association Football team and was one year
President of the University Union.
While this will be his first visit to \orth
America, Mr. Lloyd has travelled extensively on the Continent and in the
British Isles. He acted as Director
of Commissions at the International
Federation of Students Councils at
Budapest in 1928,

John Mitchell, nominee of the
Students Representative Councils of
Scotland, is a graduate in Arts (M. A.)
and Law (LI.B.) of the University of
Aberdeen, As an outstanding student
of the Law School, he gave a great» deal
of time to Debating and Pubiic Spea king. He has held many executive
oftices, both in the Law Faculty and
in the Scottish University Councils and
is at present President of the Scottish
Students Conference and Chairman of
the Student Organization in Scotland.
Mr, Mitchell’s work in politics and in
political organizations have made him
widely known in north-eastern Scotland. He has represented his University in the Federation of University
Conserative and Unionist Association
in Great Britian. Mr. Mitchell has
taken an enthusiastic part in many,
Law, Debating, and other students
clubs. He has also been closely
associated with his University’s Officers Training Corps.

Ernest Howse was born in Newfoundland, and began his debating
career at St. John’s College. Later he
debated at Albert College in Ontario
and in the Peiromoi Debating Club of
Ontario. Mr. Howse came to Dalhousie in 1926 and that year led the
Intercollegiate Team. The next year
he toured Canada as Dalhousie’s representative on the Trans Canada
Tour. This tour also was sponsored
by the N. F,C. U.S. Inthe following
year he led the Dalhousie team to
Newfoundland. Last year Mr. Howse’s
work did not permit him to debate.
He has held many executive offices at
Dalhousie, in Sodales, on the Gazette
Staff, and in various clubs. Last vear
as President of Sodales, he was responsible, together with Mr. Gordon
Harris and Miss Helen Williams for the
broadcasts of debates over C. H. N. S.
Mr. Howse is a graduate in Arts (1929)
of this University, and is at present
taking his M. A. He will graduate
from Pine Hill in Theology in 1932.
He has travelled extensively over the
Dominion,

William Jost first debated in Sydney
Academy which he represented in
debating for two years. In his final
year he captained the team that won
the Rotary Shield, donated for competition among the High Schools of
Cape Breton. In the fali of 1928 Mr.
Jost came to Dalhousie, winner of the
McConnell Scolarship for the Academy
and of the Governor General’s medal.

During his first term he became a
member of the Dalhousie Debating

Team that visited Newfoundland. In
that year he was also elected treasurer
of class 32, and in the following, of
Class 31. He-is this year President of
the latter class. During last year, the

Continued on page 4.

 

Elaborate Supper
Unexcelled Music

Door Prize

 

 

 
   
     
  
      
    

ey ee rT Pee ; DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
7
3 Is the B. A. Degree| The Present Situ-| Letters to the
1 Ld ° « e e
as] Futile ? ation in India Editor
Pe It is a well oar eet alain (By Ganesh Saw
Dieter. university, that the bu t ;
irae sciient body is made up of nae ees During the past few months, events ee at 130
ar rolled in courses leading to the degree | have been happening in India with} 7. a snus Pattillo ae
— of Bachelor of Arts. This apparent|4™azing rapidity. All these happen-| “4:5. Dathousie Gazette
ee: ; ; | popularity of the Arts course arises no| ings have made, the Indian situation a ,
OES Monnging Easton: doubt, because it offers to most persons| Very critical®one. Fortunately, or) 0. oi.

3 ARTHUR PAT A. GORDON COOPER | the easiest method of procuring the|tather, unfortunately news coming] ~ | V3" 40 thank vou in advance for
ees | S409C Ts | : : essential element of an education—a | from India has been'severely censured. hile esians % hich Ik ou wal Ge
Sg ee ie Associates: pair of capital letters to append to| Because of{this fact the severeness of |." ,°PIC" ie — tet yop tote

pt a ed . T. A. GOUDGE one’s name. Students in the ‘pro-|the situation can hardly be realized, Th. ieee 0 Chie hs a ae

3 Laas T. D. MACDONALD, fessional and scientific departments| A, point has been reached where the ign ae Way Be Pere
POA, Ra? W. T. DAUPHINEE, regard the B. A. degree as a sort of | Slightest mistake of the Home Govern- |“ “7. he task couple ot deneeeeibe

DORIS MARGESON.

mild joke, or as a vestigial remnant belonging to a lower stage in the evolution

Sports Editor: of man. And even those few serious

Girls Sports:

ro ; rere 5 alee WILLIAMS, F. R. DUXBURY. | souls who give the matter any thought,
MARGARET DORMAN. | are often led to question whether the
oot! | t Arts course is a really worth while one.
ae ; . News Editors: A letter which appeared in an issue
ale. y “ CHARLES MII.LER, of the Gazette last term, reflects an
hs a DOUGLAS GIBBON, interesting attitude on this subject.
are ROBERT KANIGSBERG, The writer—himself an Arts student—
ewes ELIZABETH MURRAY. entitled his letter, ‘The Futility of a
a B. A. Degree,’’ and in it he related how

ite a ?

Vy A
4 ny ee

EARL GOLBERG.

he was attacked by an acute inferiority
complex, on hearing an ardent highschool boy sing a pean of praise to

 
  

| id ~ ; zi ‘Business Manager: Asst. Business Manager:

   

api te ‘JR. LONAHOE, DONALD MAHON, science. The youth scathingly classed
ah is eed 5.4086]. L 2074 Arts students as “half-way” persons

nt ees timidly acquainted with a ‘‘smattering”’
PRINTED BY WM, MACNAB & SON, 7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N, g. | Of knowledge, while the man of Science,

ee ————————————————————E with his virile conciseness and _ his
oe pee dogmatic exactitude, represented for

. him the ideally educated being.
THE IMPERIAL DEBATE. Science, he claimed, because it systematically examines the problems of
nature, gives one something ‘‘definite’’
to work with, and at the same time sets
up an objective at which one can aim.
“The half-way man can’t deal in
electrons.’’ Thus, our writer pondering
these words as he wandered slowely
homeward, was led to conclude that his
years as an Arts student had been
virtually wasted. Indeed, he felt convinced that ‘“‘halfwayism”’ is losing its
hold, and that its solicitous guardians,
Philosophy, Classics and Literature,
are slowiy bowing to a new master—
Science.

Now although there may posibly
be some truth in all this, it is a mistake to suppose that science is always
exact and definite, The fact is that
science, when consulted upon many of
the ultimate problems of life, is a vague
and mystical as any theology. For
example, consider the above-mentioned

ers An event of importance occurs this week when the members
of the British Debating Team, representing student associations
ot Gieat Britian meet the Dalhousie Team of Howse and Jost in a
matching of argumentative skill. The National Federation of
_-—-University Students is sponsoring this tour of the best debating
talent of Britian through Canada, and Halifax will be the first
_ point on the itinerary.; Tours of this nature are of great value
- not only to those who are fortunate enough to participate directly
in the journey, but also to the Universities visited. Exchange
of ideas leads inevitably to a broadening .of one’s outlook, and to a
recognition of achievements in other places. A glimpse of foreign
student life, an understanding of its standards, allows an elimination of weaknesses in our own system and a development of
strength already existing. To what extent we differ from other
_. * juniors, seniors or sophomores of other Universities is always a
subject for speculation.
— ~—<—sThere is a lamentable tendency among some student bodies
sy te: regard their own college as representing the ideal in higher

Lied

i *

 
 
  
   
   
  
     
  
   

education. Respect for a particular University’s achievements AE ck ae a Peres!
_ and traditions is a splendid quality in any student. But when} i) 202 “lectrons are. small ne gative
that sentiment for one’s own University is accompanied by an| charges of. electricity. But of elec
intolerance of other systems, perhaps far superior, its effect is
__—--_-vitiated by an outlook deplorable in its narrowness of vision.
Sop its Particularly perhaps has Great Britian many things of value to
pe teach 1 in Palau life, since we have already striven to
aa 4 ~ fol | “th ale of Scotland and England in many of our

tricity itself, so little is known that it is
obscurely called a form of ‘energy’.
Thus, electrons are not solid nor liquid
gaseous; they have neither mass nor
form; and their dissociation in radioactivity casts doubt upon the dearest dogma of science—the ‘‘indestructibility” of matter, Or again, take
such a thing as the much-abused
‘ether’. Fashions in the ether vary as
much as milady’s styles, and among the
great scientists, one finds a refreshing
diversity,of opinion. Einstein affirms
its probable existence; Sir Oliver Lodge
is sure of it; Eddington thinks it
unlikely; and Rutherford is uncertain.
At all events, the ether is defined as a
non-material substance, which, by certain mysterious convolutions can transform itself into matter. One seeks in
vain for the any trace of ‘exactness’ or
‘definiteness’ here. Truly, it seems
as though the scientist is very often
forced to become a ‘half-way’ person,
frankly confessing that he cannot solve
such problems with finality.

It is in relation to this very point—
the instilling of a spirit of ‘‘halfwayism”
into the student—that the value of the
B. A. degree is evident. The gentle
“smattering” of literature, of the
classics, of history, philosophy and the
sciences, ought to enable the earnest
student to see all these subjects in
their proper perspective, neither exaggerating nor belittling any one. And
above all, the Arts course ought to
inculate into the student a way of
thinking which has as its foundation a
spirit of mild scepticism of freedom
from herd opinion, of reserved judgement and ahalvidtalien, For it is well
to remember that no one has said “‘the
last word’’ in science, in politics, in
religion or in education. These various
fields are always in a state of flux, so
that it behooves one to _ consider
opinions in each with the proverbial
‘grain of salt.’ In other words, one
ought always to be somewhat of a

   

   

arning. The N. F. C. U.S. is fulfilling its place
anging for such events as the Imperial Debate.

   
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 

Football is engaging the attention of | Jalhousie athletes at
the present time as well as occupying the minds of many of those
_ who never don a uniform themselves but follow the game with a
keen interest. Football is a sport which is intimately connected
with University life, and perhaps has a greater appeal to youth
_ than any other game. Certainly at Dalhousie it is pre-eminent.
It stands unique among sports in its ability to inspire courage,
teamwork and a spirit of fierce determination. In short, it is a
game which developes character perhaps in greater degree than
any other form of recreation. It is no mere coincidence that one
finds on looking over the names of those who played the game in
the good old days men who have since climbed to the very top in
their several spheres of endeavor. Their qualities of leadership,
-of strength of heart and body, which later brought conspicuous
_ success and honor, were developed to no inconsiderable extent on
- the football field.
Football is of great value not only to the individual but also
to his University. If one looks at the sport in its relation to the
_ University in a purely material sense a winning team means good
advertising. Some large Colleges in order to secure advertising
have degraded a sportsman’s splendid game to the level of a mere
business. But one must look beyond crass commercialism and
realize that one of the strongest links that bind an alumnus to
his alma mater is his seasons of football. Then were his strongest
friednships made and staunchest loyalties developed. And the
strength of a University oft-times is found in a strong Alumni.
as Finally, the text of this is, of course, that every able-bodied man
ee in Dalhousie should feel the thrill and experience the bruises ot
eee the king of college games. Play football, on whatever team it

i

EN, may be. Returns in friendships formed, in health, enjoyment| ‘half-way’’ person, using one’s spirit
ot ies developed will b of mild scepticism as a healthy antid

ma and loyalties developed will be great. P SPS BORED Y Siete
Bak ft), against all forms of dogmatism.

ae cee of 8 manner of
ey. thought, are many. In the first place,
ms COLLEGE FAILURES. the student experiences a feeling of
Be a intellectual feedom. He finds that he

is able to consider all problems in an
unbiased manner, because he holds his
own opinions lightly. He is freed from
the desire to think with the crowd, or
to run with them after the heroes and
fadsofthe hour. He learns that to use
one’s own powers of individual judgement is far better than merly repeating
the opinions of somebody else. He
begins to appreciate the fact that what
a man 7s, is more important than what
he does. And finally, he begins to take
on through these habits of thought,
some of the attributes of culture,‘that
rare and valuable chacteristic which is
the stepping-stone in the advance of
civilization.

r An interesting article under the the title ‘‘Why Students
Fail,’ written by the Dean of the College, Princeton University,
appeared in a recent issue of the Saturday Evening Post. The
author points out the distressing fact that on the average only one
of three persons who commence a college career graduate with
_ a diploma after a successful course. Although the figures given
refer to Universities in the United States they reveal conditions
also existing in Canadian institutions. Such failures harm both
_ the individual and the college, the former by sending him out into
the world with the stigma of failure upon him, and the latter by
_ the insertion of so many weak links in the educational chain.
Perhaps the most outstanding reason for such a high rate of mortality is that there are undoubtedly large numbers of High School
graduates who should never be admitted to college. They are
ire fitted for further training in vocational schools or for direct
entry into business. The Universities are somewhat at fault

R

iz

 
    
 
  
  
 
 
   
    
   
 
  
   
    
  
  
   
    
   
 
 

a

Sa

1

e

a
it

Fed
Py i
vad

ay

| _— itself. Mere presentation of a certificate showing a student to|stimulate the former.
‘ _have completed a certain course and passed certain examinations| poor health and too ma

| Universities shou
icy adds to the cost of education of those who can fully take] students.
: eer ene , and is unfair in the long run to the} occupations.

i 1 of ability

po

IPE opectenity’to partak
can show a High School certificate is misguided.

¢

 

ment will ensure what India’s future
attitude will be. That is either Dominion Status or complete Independence.

Before the World War began, the
nationalist party—The Indian National Congress—was seeking Dominion
Status for India. That was nearly 16
years ago. This party is still in existence, although many of its leaders
were arrested and imprisoned for
being faithful to their Mother India,

Within the past few months, the
movements of the Indian National
Congress again attracted world-wide
attention. The party had become
stronger with the passing of the years,
and they were a force to be reckoned
with. So serious was the situation
at the beginning of the Civil Disobedlence campaign, that it was found
necessary to curb its activities.

The first move was made when its
newly elected president, Pandit Jawahir Lall Nehur was arrested. In quick
succession, Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit
Motilall Nehru, Mrs. Sarojini Naidu,
Abbas Tyabji and Mayor Sen Gupta
of Calcutta were arrested and imprisoned. Instead of ending the activities
of this nationalist body—the imprisonment of these Indian patriots only
instilled new life into the Indian
National Congress. The Congress was
determined to keep on going like
Tennyson’s Brook. .

It was thought that the report o: the
Simon Commission would find favour
with the Indian peoples. However, it
soon became known that the Indian
Congress had rejected the report in its
entirety.

Recent attempts have been made to
bring about a meeting of Indian leaders
and English representatives. A Round
Table Conference was proposed to
meet in the coming Autumn, Emissaries of peace were sent to the imprisoned Indian leaders to get them to
attend the Conference. Up to the
present no definite agreement has been
reached. The Indian leaders,;—Mahatma Gandhi, Motilall Nehur, Jawahir,
Lall Nehur and Abbas Tyabji—have
refused to cooperate.

Recently the Congress has changed
its policy from that of Dominion
Status to one of complete Independence
This was brought about by the undue
delay on the part of the Home Government to grant Dominion Status.

However, the time is not too late.
It is thought in Indian political circles
that if the Indian leaders were sure of
obtaining Dominion Status at once,—
they would not hesitate to cooperate
with the English representatives at
the Round Table Conference. This
assurance the Home Government will
not give. Hence, these Indian leaders
on the evidence of breachers of faith
in the past are unwilling to be led into
any agreement which will make them
traitors to their Mother India.

This is the point which will determine India’s future attitude. It is a
very difficult problem to solve, and it
will take the best of English statesmanship and ability. England sees
now the result of her past mistakes.
Clever and humane _ statesmanships
would have kept the American colonies
within the British Empire. Clever
and humane statesmanship will also
keep India within the British Commonwealth of Nations,

India’s main desire is to be a selfgoverning nation,—an equal among the
other dominions of the empire,—and
not a subject people under an alien
yoke. India has been a_ powerful
driving force in the civilizations of the
past and young India is not a power to
be desposed or ignored,

 

 

September

The gold red wine of Autumn spills

From the year’s brimming cup

And dyes the valleys in a crimson flood,

And nae with gold and red a thousand
ills.

Great golden pumpkins catch September’s sun

In brooding lowlands, and in sheltered
places;

And from the hilltops, o’er vast sunkist open,

Asters, like smoke-blu_ rivers, run.

Muriel Love.

 

In conclusion then, one might suggest that the B. A. degree is not altogether futile, since it ultimately sets
the earnest student upon the highroad
to culture. Indeed, this word ‘earnest’
almost solves the whole problem itself.
For in the end, whether the B. A. degree
is to be miserably futile, or whether it
is to be pleasantly successful, depends
preeminently on the student himselt.

T. A. GOUDGE, ’31.

 

~- entry” | Se The author of the article mentioned, however, holds out hope
__ in taking under their wing lame ducks who have not proved ability| for all of us now at college. The chief requisities for success are
___to continue in college work by passing rigid tests of the college| native intelligence and hard work, and the latter will oftimes
The chief stumbling blocks to success are

aoe Sy eee as ae : LCL ny outside activities.
_ over which the University has no direct control is not sufficient|improved greatly by judicious care and a

Poor health may be
proper amount of

to profit by the instruction professors offer.| physical exertion. The question of too many activities is important
d not take “run of mine” students. Such a| particularly perhaps at the beginning of the term, and for new
Intelligence must be exercised in the choice of outside
i | th If one guides participation in the social life of the
_ Public opinion which insists on a Univers-| University with a view to allowing a proper amount of time for
of its advantages to everyone| academic activity then examinations will present no insuperable
difficulty to the average Dalhousian.

housie football games have been enlivened by the presence of a’ college
band which was begun through the
initiative of Mr. S. S. Singer. This
year an attempt is being made to continue the good work.

At the first game a band was present
but unfortunately there was only a very
meagre turnout of the large number of
musicians enrolled at Dal. If the
band is to continue and to improve it is
essential that everyone who plays,
turn out to assist it. No musician,
should require any special invitation
and each may rest assured that if he
turns out he will be given a hearty
welcome and a place in the band and
thus be privileged to do his part to
help the football team to hold the
championship.

The next band practice will be announced on all the college noticeboards and it is hoped that a greater
number will attend than have been
present at the first meetings. Unless
we have more players we cannot havea
band in future and this would, I think,
be a thing to be regretted, Iam,

Respectfully Yours,
R. A. Donahoe,
Pres. Glee Club.

Chatat e Gipa i l eete

TO THE STUDENT BODY OF
DALHOUSIE.

After a lapse of more than four years
a debating team from the British
Isles is again to visit Dalhousie. On
Friday night of this week a team composed of representatives from England
and Scotland will meet a team from
this University and it is hoped that
EVERY member of the Student Body
will take advantage of this exceptional
opportunity, offered, to most students,
but once in his or her university career.

Unfortunately the present week
seems to be overcrowded with social
activities. In view of that fact Sodales
Debating Society does not beg you but
tather respectfully requests that every
effort be made to be present at 8
o'clock in the gymnasium. British
debating teams in the past have been
characterized by their free and entertaining style; Dalhousie too is fortunate
in having as her representatives two
men of outstanding ability in debate.
You are assured of an entertaining as
well as profitable evening.

It is the one hope of Sodales that the
British Team, on their first appearance
on Canadian soil may be given a true
Canadian as well as a true Dalhousie
welcome.

IT IS UP TO YOU.

' D.G.GRANT,
Pres. Sodales Debating Society.

—_4--e—__—_—_

Whit MacDonald, who attended the
Harvard Summer School has entered
George Washington University, to
study the profession of Law.

 

 

Dick Humphrey has entered the
Harvard Post Graduate School in
pursuance of the degree of Doctor of
Philosophy. Dick will specialize in
his favorite subject History.

Wilfred Templeman is at Toronto
University having gone there on a
scholarship awarded him last year.

 

Octobter I5th, 19380

_ Through the
Looking Glass

A bit of criticism
cy eerie fee to the game Saturay.

The statement has often been made
that the different organizations receiving aid from the Students Council
should have a better accounting system
than is now in force. Undoubtedly this
is true, and is something which should

be rectified immediately. Another
matter which should be taken into consideration when discussing the question
of reform is some means of checking up
on the different officers of the preceeding year who are slow in settling up
their accounts and having them audited. This is a condition which has been
tolerated too long at the University.
Not only is it bad business to begin a
year not knowing where you stand but
it is an inconvenience to the present
officers to be trying to carry on their
work when the last incumbent is still
issuing checks, reading your correspondence, and not exerting himself to complete his work so that you will be able
to carry on unmolested. A student
officer is appointed for one year only,
and that year is finished when the college in the spring, not one month after
it opens in the fall. This is a matter
which should be brought home to all
officials and the Students Council
should insist that audited reports
should be in their hands not later than
the beginning of the term. If such is
not the case, unless bona fide reason
can be given, the offending official
should be brought before the Council
and the matter throughly investigated.

    

 

Last year the Gazette supported the
campaign for the ten dollar fee but
evidently the editor as well as the
students of the university was laboring
under a misapprehension when he
understood that free admission to all
home games was one of the benefits of
the increased fee. It seems to me that
I can remember quite clearly that the
promise of free admission to home
games was one of the planks of the reformers’ platform. The college was
impressed by this promise and voted
two to one in favour of the higher fee.
Len Miller said that in no time conditions would be the same as always,
but no one paid any attention to him
except to comment that as usual he was
finding fault. In fact when looking
back I cannot but help think that we
expected, for no good reason, that with
the advent of the ten dollar fee the old
college would be another Utopia,

But what has been the result. AlIready the main promise has been
broken, or if not broken, at least badly
stretched. At the game with Mt.
Allison they held us all up for twenty
five cents—two bits. They broke
their promise to the sttidents of the
university by reading into the statement that there would be free admission
to home games the most original meaning of the word ‘“‘home.” They claim
that home games are merely league
games and that exhibition games are—
well they don’t tell us but they do say
that they are not home games. And
such reasoning comes from the Students
Council—the governing body of the
students, We, the students of Dalhousie are being sold for twelve and one
half cents. Can you beat it! The
general howl that has gone up around
the university shows that such a ruling
is about as popular as the little black
and white animal at the garden party.
If the Council wants to remain in the
good graces of the students for a little
while at least, they had better see to it
that we get our twelve cents back,
They can keep the half cent for their
trouble and as a reward for théir ingenuity. However it is not so much
the money that bothers us—it is the
principle of the thing. Get that one,
even if it is as old as Herbie’s jokes,

 

 

 

In any article recollection
of quality remains long

>

 

*
~ >
a " )
7 x » : ¥ Se 7
. S3 % = ss
ye » — fe
VS Ol

ao A
ne eS

.
es

=

Sa

Say

x
~

Ss
x SS
i

o

I
eo

ea
PAE SAN SAS

tive

bo
Po

os

after price is forgotten

For the Formal
Dances you will
find that our
Tuxedos and
Dress accessories are distinc
 

students get a discount of ten per cent.

Shanes Mens Wear
Shop

30 Spring Garden Road, Halifax

  

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
     
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
 

i
od

i a
=
ay
/

gg

.
oe

es "

+

Dalhousie tigers show2 ed signs of their former
Mes title-winning ability on
“™ Saturday last when’they
trounced a light, fast
aggregation from SackF ville to the tune /of14-0.
» The game was fast and
/ clean thruout, with the
dj Mt. A. forwards losing
the ball almost continually in the scrum, but
excelling in dribbling,
sometimes breaking thru and carrying
the ball almcst the entire length of the

field in this manner. The tackling of
the visitors was almost entirely of
- the ‘necking’ variety, whereas the

home team were tackling {low and
_ hard, nailing their men every time.
Bs The tigers lost many golden opportunities when the ball was passed
_- __ aercgs the half line only to be fumbled,
and on many occasions the Mounties
~ “showed thelr speed and skill by taking
' advantage of these misplays to ge the
- ball away from the shadow of their

Drover

Sal Scrum.
rs. In the last tilt with the Wanderers
_ the tiger’s scrum did not get down fast
-__ enough or pack properly with the result
. that the clubmwn rook advantage of
- _ it to get the bail out their end time and
again. Coach Ab Smith spent considerable time this past week trying
os eh _ various changes to correct this and
ie even higtly pleased with the forwards in
ahd 7) his. department Saturday, the ball
Piemensn 5 1 i ig out fast and cleanly to the
nds of the picking quarter an
_ thence to Davison who played a good
Be a au cape inh a Bee tame See if
EWS on eee 5 7 “4 a 1S ent a
The Backfield.
Pee Numerous changes were made in the
_ Three Quarter line at half time, Da
has a wealth of material, there being
little to choose between the eight men
who filled these positions, all being
good ball. carriers and hard tacklers
_ Many pretty runs were made which
should have resulted in trys, but due
to unlucky fumbles were used to
advantage by the maroon and gold
squad. So well did the backs. cover
up that Connor, at fullback, had very
+ little to do.g

a, i
o

i
an

The Scoring.

Dal’s scoring punch
wasfound about midway in the first period when Davison
went over on a pretty play, crawing his
man and faking a

ss, ‘Red’ Archie
ailed to convert.
- The secondtry came
shortly after when
Davison took the ball from Art Suther, land and aftef a short run passed to
__, Drover who eluded his man to place
the ball directly behind the bars from
___ which position Davison had little diff'  _ iculty in converting. This ended the
'__ scoring in the first half. In the second
period C. Townsend went over from
a line out, Davison got the next and

__ oasttry, both of which he failed to con__-vert from difficult angles.

Be The Play.

 

Townsend

~~
as

te
c ”
~€ e.

, Z The first stanza opened with Mt. A.
kicking into the wind, A, Sutherland
returned the kick to center, and finding
touch. The Dal scrum immediately
took possession of the ball and contin—_ued to do so thruout the entire play.
Due to fumbling the forwards carried
_ the ball to Dal’s 5 yard line, where
Oyler relieved the situation with a nice
kick. Mt. A. took a line out, which
they did at every available opportunity
the forwards massing and having the
, Dal stalwarts at their mercy. Play
-_-went from end to end of the gridiron,
-—_ Mt. A, being forced to touch for safety,
shortly after Dal was given a free kick
at the fifteen yard line when Sutherland failed to take the wind into account and missed the bars by a narrow
margin. From this point on, Dal snap____ ped into it and worked the ball up to
their opponents 25 yard line, where
5 Pr Davy took the ball over for the first
taste of blood. Towards the end of
me | the period the play was repeated and
_ Davison tossed a nice pass to Drover
__ who went over, the try was converted.
The period ended with the score 8-0.
7
ah

si x ‘ie The Second Half.

oa © amie ; :
Kicking against a heavy wind Tiny
~ Woolner Failed to get the ball beyond
the ten yard line necessitating a scrum
at center field. The Mounties im
- mediately assumed the defensive and
_ attempted to smother the play. Their
“4 ro ChAtPACeren . .
‘ ee ie Res h mile Y
Ba |

a a
ay at

ia

nice runs

_. Forwards—Cooper, Stewart,

 

_ Dalhousie Defeats
eS Mount Allison
z Tigers Show Big Improvement over

_ Last Week, Especially In Scrum
| To Win Easily

block quarter being over zealous was
penalized for off-side and Dal given a
free kick. Oyler and H. Sutherland
were replaced by George and Don
Thompson, two plungers, who made
but did not pass quickly
enough, Scott replaced Maxwell who
duplicated his performance of last
Saturday, tackling viciously and being
in the play all the time. Drover and
Archie McDonald were replaced by
Dickie and Nickerson. Davison continued his onslaught and tried a place
kick from a bad angle but the wind
was too strong, the Mount A. full back
punted back to center but Dal was not
to be denied, they advanced to the 10
yard line, Clyde Townsend getting
the ball from the line out and plunging
thru the mass got over the line. The
tigers were playing a better brand of
football, this half, and the Sackville
Collegians were determined to keep
the score as low as possible, The
score was no indication of the play as
the Tigers were over them like a tent,
owing to their superior weight and
experience, the Mounties starting the
season with only four of their last
year’s team, were decidedly out classed.
Davison completed a nice days work
with the nicest play of the game when
he took the ball from the scrum at the
25 yard line and worked his way over
the line for the final try. The game
ended with the score reading 14-0.

Dr. Murray Logan, former  Dalhousie and Wanderers star handled the

game to the complete satisfaction of all,

controlling the play at all times, givin
numerous penalty kicks against both
sides, for off side and feet up in the

scrum, adding materially to the speed

of the game.g
Dalhousie lineup:— _ Baird, Woolner, D. Murray, D. McRae,

-C. Townsend.

_ Halves.—Maxwell, Oyler, Davison.

Three | Quarters.—A. Sutherland
(Capt.), H. Sutherland, A. McDonald,
H. Drover.

Fullback.—H. Connor,

Spares.—D. Thompson, G. Thompson, S. Scott, Dickie, Nickerson.

Don’t Forget The
Big Game on Sat.

Dal. vs. Acadia

Dentistry Withdraws from Interfaculty League

 

The Dentists will not have a team
entered in the interfaculty football
league this fall according to a decision
reached at the first regular meeting of
the society, held in the Dental Theatre
on Thursday of last week, with President George Macintosh presiding.
Owing to the comparative difficulty experienced during the past several years
in getting fifteen stalwarts to represent
the tooth-extractors in this branch of
activity it was considered expedient to
remain out of the league this year.

The matter of holding an annual
dance occasioned considerable comment and it was decided that the
Dentists ask the council for the
privilege of staging the first dance
after Christmas. The place was not
decided upon but the Lord Nelson or
the Nova Scotian will likely be selected
at a further date.

Erwin Taylor of the Juniors was
elected Vice-President of the Society,
to replace A. C. MacPherson who has
relinquished his professional studies in
favor of a Science degree.

The remainder of the meeting was
taken up with the appointing of the
various managers and committees to
govern the society activities for the
year. The Dents are planning big
things in hockey, basketball, softball
and bowling, the latter endeavour was
instituted last year with such splendid
success that a further participance is
deemed inevitable. ;

The appointments resulted in the
following: —Manager of Bowling; Frank
Duxbury; Basketball; George Macintosh; Hockey; Lee Allanach and
Softball; Harry Peters. The members of the social committee which
includes representatives from the various years are, Frank Duxbury, Convenor and J. Lawrence, L. Alanach and
J. MacLeod, and a season replete with
smokers, debates and banquets is
promised.

 

A pep rally will be held this Thursday
evening, preceded by a short Glee
Club program, every student should be
present to get the ‘low down’ on this
question of cheering.

THE OPENING GAME,

United Services and Kings, of the
second section of the Intermediate
league gave a snappy exhibition of
Rugby in the opening game. These
teams are handicapped in that they
cannot get regular practice hours,
but show their ability to put up a
fast clean game. Kings won, due to
their more offensive style of play, and
the fast work of their forwards in
following up.

 

Girls Sports

It looks as though this is going to be
a big year for the ‘‘Gym’’, for more
interest is being shown in it than formerly. The gym work will be informal.
that is, will include Pyramids and
tumbling. The classes will be held
Mondays from 4,00 to 4.80, and
Thursdays from 2.45 to 3.80. Any
who wish to take part in these classes
are requested to “sign up’’ at the
gymnasium office. Another feature
this year is the opportunity of a
weekly swimming class, The Y.M.C.A.
tank will be ad the disposal of the
girls on Friday afternoons from 2.30
to 4.00, when Miss Harris will be
there to give the necessary instructions.
In order to have this swimming, the
girls who wish to go must have a
medical examination, and also pay at
the rate of 35 cents a ticket, or swim
2 dollars for 8 swims and 5 dollars for
a season ticket. Since the Shirreff
Hall girls have had the examination,
they may get an O. K. slip from Miss
Harris. In case any girls wish to
attend a swimming class and are unable to go on Fridays, there is a Girls’
night every Wednesday night.

Many co-eds will be glad to hear
that tennis may be played any time
that the gym is not in use,

The Interfaculty Track Meeting will
be in the nature of Inter-class competition for the girls. The events will
include 60, 100 and 220 yard dashes,
running broad and running high jumps,
baseball and javelin throws, and a
440 yard relay. This last promises
to be most interesting as there will be
a team from each of the classes.

 

Sophomores
Defeat Freshmen

Game One-sided

On Tuesday noon, Freshmen engaged
in their first rugby game since coming
to Dalhousie and came out on the
short end of a nine to nothing score
in their encounter with Sophmores.
The game provided plenty of amusement to the spectators as they followed
the play up and down the field. The
opposing teams were bitter enemies
as the Sophmores were to initiate the
Freshmen later in the day.

The game was pretty much one sided.
Sophmores had a number of Intermediate men on their line upand they
all showed up well in the play. When
McDonald, picking quarter for the
Sophs, scored the first try after about
five minutes of play in the first half
when he received the ball from the
scrum and ran ten yards for the score,
With the period almost at an end,
Sam Scott got the second score when
he jumped on the ball after a mixup
behind the Freshman line. Neither
try was converted. The score at the
end of the half stood at six to nothing,
The prettiest score of the game came
in the second half, when Crofton
Dickie ran from about the forty yard
line and evaded all his would be tacklers
and touched the bal! down behind the
lines It was a nice score. The attempt at convert was not successful,

From then on until the end of the
game, Freshmen tried desperately to
break into the scoring column, but all
of their attempts were futile,
They missed a wonderful opportunity,
when they were awarded a free kick
on about the twenty yard line, but
they failed to score.

Professor Big Jim McDonald refereed
The lineup—

Sophmores—Fullback, Christie; Three-quarters, Anderson, Harries, Stoddard, Thompson; Halves, Scott, Dickie, McDonald; forwards, Cunningham,
Doyle, Teasdale, Baird, McDonald,
Taylor and Goodman.

Freshmen,—Fullback, Connors; Three quarters, O'Brien, Redden, Longley,
Dunsworth; Halves, Lloy, Richardson,
Stewart; Forwards, Johnson, Orr, Ferguson, Kennedy, Mahen, Elkin, Crowais; Spares—Ferguson, Goldberg.

Girls Basketball

The first practice of the girls basketball will be on Tuesday evening,
October 14th and another on Thursday
continuing on these nights until further
notice. This year as it has been for
the last few years, an interclass league
will be played off for the cup donated
by Mr. Stirling in 1928, and won by
Class '31 since that date. The purpose
of this league is to find and to develop
material for the Intercollegiate team
chosen after Christmas. Keen interest
should be shown this year with Miss
Harris, graduate of McGill in Physical
Education to spur the girls on. So
everyone come out this year, whether
they have played before or not, Dal
must capture the Intercollegiate cup
now in the hands of Mt. Allison.
Don’t forget, practice on Tuesday
October 14th.

N. B.—Tuesday and Thursday,—
7.15—8.15 Beginners.

Tuesday and Thursday—8,.15-9.30
Advanced,

Interclass league, Class ’34, vs
Tuesday, Oct. 21st.

Signed MANAGER.

19
o

 

Lasts Week’s Intermediate Game

Continuing the record established
by the Cubs of the last two years, our
Intermediates succeeded in vanquishing
their |‘Redland” rivals on Saturday
when they tallied six points to double
the score on the Junior Wanders in the
game preliminary to the Senior fixture
on the Studley gridiron.

The first half ended with a 8-0 score
favouring the Cubs, the score resulting
from a try by Bud Thompson. Ian
Fraser netted the second try of the
game shortly after the opening of the
final stanza.

The playing of the Cubs on Saturday
was a revelation to those who were on
hand to witness the struggle, the timely
heeling of Don Grant and Sandy MacLeod combined with a smooth working
half line resulted in the Wanderers
touching for safety on many occasions.
Although the score indicates a rather
close tussle the Gold and Black players
were never seriously pressed and seemed
to control the Play practically at will.

It looks as though this years squad
will duplicate the records established
by the Juniors of the last two years.

Sport Briefs

With another football season rolling around, one of the faces sorely
missed is that of George McLeod, last
year’s rugby captain, and president
of practically every organization of
which he was a member. He is now
the rising young dentist of New Waterford, but according to various responsible people he will find many opportunities of visiting Halifax during the
Fall and Winter months. He expects
to occupy a berth with one of the
C. B. teams this fall.

 

Henry Townsend, one of the
prominent scrum men for the last
four years, and Stirling Giddings,
last year’s football manager are now
resident house doctors at Western
Hospital, Montreal, a branch of the
Montreal General Hospital.

Rolph Grant, who showed up so
well last year, his first season in Rugby,
passed us up to go to Cambridge,
where, no doubt, he will develop into
a fine rugger.

 

Charlie Jones, the sorrel-toppe
half-liner is no longer a_ carefree,
plunging youth, but has also gone to
Montreal to practise his chosen profession, that of medicine,

 

Aubrey Tupper, Dent. 28, Football
capt. in his Senior year, recently left
the ranks of the free, no longer to travel
as a celibate. During a recent visit
to the city he stated that he would
be here for the Acadia-Dalhousie
fixture this year.

Kensie McNeil, versatile Dalhousie
athlete of 29-30 has during the summer
months been employed as promotor of
the Cape Breton Ladies Beauty Contest. Always a favourite with the fair
sex he has been most successful in his
latest endeavour. His plans for the
winter are not known as yet, but we all
expect to see him in action in the
Eastern League. He will play rugby
with the Glace Bay Legion Guards
this fall. ;

Frank Wishart, a familiar figure in
the Dalhousie Scrum for the past three
seasons, will not be with the Tigers
this fall. He has entered the University of New Brunswick in the Arts
Faculty.

The Dal scrum was a pretty thing
to watch, the ball seemed to be drawn
by the irresistible force of a magnet,
so quickly did it clear the feet of the
heelers and second line men. Col.
Stewart and Gordon Cooper are the
two ‘Heels,’

Although the Tigers played much
better against Mt. A. than in the first
game of the season, it was quite evident that they were not getting the
support from the attending fans that
they deserved. What excuse have
you to offer, is your team not worthy
of your whole-hearted support?

AN

ectlth
WN

aS

“WATCH MY
SMOKE”!

I’ll show you
speed in studies
and sports - and
when it comes to
smoking I’m
there every time
with Turrets.

CIGARETTES

Mild and Fragrant

 

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The

fastest growing
newspapers. in

Nova Scotia

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

IMPERIAL TOBA!
OF CANADA ea =

 

 

Page Three

   

 

®BThe next game Vis ¥against VAcadia
who held the snappy Wanderers team
to a 6-3 score.* Do you want Dal to
drop back into last position in the race
for the title? ¢ A victory this Saturday
is absolutely “essential if we are going
to have a crack at the cup.

Save the valuable
“POKER HANDS”

 

_ Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen,

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax.

|BIRKS=| —

  
   
  
   
   
 
   
  

 

 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

Leather Goods

Portfolios and Loose
Leaf Books, Bags and
Trunks of all kind

avid. sizes:.."c 686 &

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

   

  
   
      

 

 

 

   

G. A. McDONALD

TOBACCONIST

Smokers requisites of every description.
A complete stock of Demestic and | mported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES AND TOBACCOS

 

21 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 
       
 

HALIFAX

  
  
  

—, a Oe
a
"= aq

 

 

 

 

>

1 It is too generally the opinion, said

     

- Law Society. 
Continued from page 1.

 

Dr. MacDonald, that professional men

_ should refrain from politics, and it is
exceedingly regretable that the best of

our citizens are usually averse to takirg

- any active part in the public life of the

nation. In extenuation of such opinjons and aversions, it is argued that

politics are dirty and that our politici
ans are corrupt, Such arguments are,
actually, very gross prapperauons; but
assume them to be so; then the necessity is greater and the opportunity
wider for clean minded men to enter
the political arena and to bring about
reform. It is not argued against
Medicine, as a profession, that the
doctor may be contaminated by the
evidence of vice that he daily encounters; it is not held against Theology or
against Law, that the practitioner will
become sullied by the human frailties
and perversions that he must expect
to meet. Then it is indeed an in
- consistency to maintain that honest

men should not undertake the preeminently important career of a public
servant. lest their minds become
soiled. That nature abhors a vacuum
is a fact of Sociology as well as of
Physics. Society is made up of the
elements, good, and evil, and no man
may hope to encounter the former, and
wholly evade the latter. The harsh

- winter and the pleasant summer are

alike essential to the beauty of the
rose; and, as a well known writer has
suggested, man, too, is the product of
many seasons and of multifarious
conditions. ‘“I have kept my hands
tolerably clean,’’ said Stevenson, “and
that is all that can be expected of any
man.” The young man to whom
politics appeal, and the young man
who would do his country a service will
both find in public life an ample
opportunity for self-expression. He
who is called should heed the call.

It was with the deepest of gratification and satisfaction that Dr, MacDonald received the well wishes of the
Law Society. Probably never again
might he receive such sincere congratulations and tokens of affection
from so large a body so differing in

their persuasions. Upon their approbation he placed an exceedingly
high value.

When the applause has subsided,
Dean Smith spoke briefly. It was no
mere coincidence, he submitted, that
the Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennet, the Hon.
MacKenzie King, Sir Richard Squires
and Premier L. were all
University-trained men. Youth and
college education are fast coming into
their own. .

After the singing of “For He’s a
Jolly Good Fellow,” the meeting was
adjourned.

Bertram Zwicker, graduate in 1930,
has accepted a position in the main
_ tenance Dept. of the Telephone Co,

Laurie Hart spent an enjoyable
summer at Minaki Lodge, Ontario,

as swimming instructor.

Much interest is being felt at Dal
- housie in the marriage of William,

known to Dalhousie as ‘‘Bill’’ Clark,
Arts 27, to Minna Jones of Washington,
' D. C., which took place last June.

Clyde Douglas, M. A., and winner
of the De Mille Prize for Prose, is giving
the pupils of Alexandra School the
benefits of the knowledge he has
amassed.

 

and Value

chosen carefully from
by skilled tailors.

stand the test.

The Fabrics

mixed colorings.

Styles for all

suits up to size 52.

= =

With the establishment of a rotating
interneship several of the present 65th
year students were able to avail them
selves of training in other than Halifax

hospitals. Hughie Martin, after having spent 3 months in the Victoria
General, left to join the interne staff
of the Kentville Sanitarium and is
located there at’ present. ‘Bunker
Murphy, who spent the summer
months in Saint Martha’s Hospital at
Antigonish, is now on the interne staff
of the Victoria General. Since his
return to Halifax, Bunker has again
distinguished himself in the realm of
sport by making himself an invaluable
asset to the Saint Agnes baseball team.

 

Phi Rho | Party

The members of Phi Rho Sigma
held their first party this year at the
chapter house on the evening of Wednesday, October 8th. There were
about 25 couples in attendance. The
dancing rooms were decorated in the
fraternity colors and excellent music
was provided by Messrs. Sadler and
O’Hearn. The chaperons were Dr.
and Mrs. S. R. Johnson and Dr, and
Mrs. W. G. Colwell.

 

Med Society Meet

The second meeting of the term was
held at the Public Health Building
on the evening of October 9th. The
main business of the evening consisted
in the admission to the society of the
members of the first year class. In the
business which followed, the most important consideration was that of the
necessity of quarters for the internes
in the Public Health Clinic. This
question was fully discussed and it was
decided that, in order to gain the
proper advantages from this interneship, it is essential that quarters be
provided in the Health Clinic building
itself. Following the business meeting Dr. H. B. Atlee then favored the
meeting with the discussion of a paper
which he had prepared treating in a
concise and systematic manner the
clinical aspects of Puerperal Septicaemia, He followed the reading of
this paper with lantern slides illustrating the most important points of
his discussion. A sincere vote of
thanks was then tendered Dr. Atlee by
the meeting. The adjournment of
the meeting was followed by refresh
ments, ;
A. D. GIBBON.

GOOD EQUIPMENT
For Good Athletes
Those who demand the
best in Sporting Equipment unanimously agree
that Sue goods cannot be
surpassed.

 

The New Gaionia Suits
For Men

Noted for Style, Quality

been improved. Woolens
leading British mills, designed

and cut by experts, end finished in modern workrooms
Compare them with suits ordinarily
selling at dollars more, and see how favorably they

  
 
 

 
 

Fine botany serges, grey worsteds, Fancy English
worsteds, Scotch and English Tweeds.
stripes, shadows, herringbones and a great variety of
plain and novelty tweeds.
browns, tans and grey-blues, grey-browns and many

Stripes, group

Plain blues and greys,

Men.

The new double-breasted sac with square shoulder.
Two button notch and peak lapel coats in body fittings
for men and young men — generally a little more
moulded to the body with clearer cut lines.

Bodies and types to fit most men, including big men’s

Regular shorts, talls, stouts and short Stouts.
Sizes in the lot 35 to 44.

_#T.EATO

o

  

IMES

Medical Notes\Bachelors - 
$25.00

Fabrics, Patterns, Tailoring, Styles — all better than
ever—which means that the best existing values in men’s
clothing for years has

LIMITED

   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

By a standing vote of the audience
the decision went to the negative. Mr.
Don Grant, President of Sodales explained to the meeting’that in accordance with the advice of the National
Federation of Canadian University
Studedts, the debating society was
selecting topics of more or less lighter
vein. This, he hoped, would provide
entertainment and amusement to the
audience as well as practice to the
speakers, and would be a remedy for
the disinterest lately apparent in debating circles.

During the earlier part of the evening
a committee consisting of Dr. Clarence
MacKinnon of Pine Hill, and of Professors Vincent MacDonald and Horace
Read was chosen to judge the debating
trials and the debates for the Bennet
Shield. A very successful session
marks the beginning of the Sodales
program for this year.

   
 
 
    
      
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
  
    
    
 
 
    
    
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
     
  
  
    
  
   
   
   

Continued from page 1.

ness to the state and indicate a tendency to race suicide. Many countires in many ages have recognized
this danger and have sought by taxing
bachelors to remove it. Canada should
do the same.

Capability, dignity and self-confidence are the results of marriage.
The normal male needs the restraining
steadying influence of a wife and
children, and taxation by forcing him
into matrimony would make of him a
better being.

In a state of freedom he does not
pay his proper share to the public
treasury. This omission ought to be
remedied by a tax.

Mr. Goudge then spoke for the
negative. Taxation is a _ challenge
to liberty and without justification.
It has been stated by responsible
authorities that all rormal men wish
to marry, and therefore when a man
does not marry it is a result of abnormality or of inability... Neither of
these states could justly be taxed.
In the present stage of civilization a

 

  

GARRICK

WED. and THURS.

    
     
 

married man must be in receipt of a THE FOUR
considerable income. Because many

are not in receipt of sufficient incomes MARX
to enter matrimony, it is claimed that

they should be taxed. The only BROTHERS
effect of such taxation would be to IN

   

impel men to undertake responsibility
beyond their resourses or to further
the time at which tney could marry
and so defeat the very object of the
tax. It would be fairer and more
logical to contribute to the bachelor
than to tax him.

In regard to the argument that
bachelors tended to race _ suicide,
quality and quantity should be sought.
Finally, since marriage was a privilege
rather than a sacrifice, bachelors should
not be taxed for refraining from it.

At this point the meeting was
thrown open for discussion from the
floor. Gordon Harris, Jerry Stewart,
Red Foster, Gordon Graham, Ronald
Copp, Robert Kanigsburg, Raymond
MacCarthy and Donald Archibald
made interesting addresses.

Mr. Goudge then closed the case of
the negative by stressing his plea for
quality rather than quantity of citizens,
Mr. Denoon, in resting his case disparaged the idea that abnormality
was in any way responsible for bachelorhood.

*‘Animal
Crackers”

FRI. and SAT.

RICHARD ARLIN
IN

‘‘ THE SEA GOD.”

 
     
     
   

DRUGS

STUDENTS SUPPLIES

MacLeod-Balcom, Ltd

CHEMISTS

OPPOSITE

Bank of Nova Scotia
AND

St. Andrew’s Church

       

PERMANENT WAVE
Ringlets Ends $10.00

Regular $15.00 wave for $10.00
on the ‘‘Keen’’ machine
which recently won major
honors at Philadelphia against
the world’s best. No better
wave at any price. Marceling Finger Waving and Bobbing.

Shield’s Beauty Parlor

2910 ROY BUILDING
PHONE B.6748

         
      
   
       
         
         
     
 

 

    
   
        

CASINO

WEEK OCTOBER 13
Mon.-Tue.-Wed.

“Atlantic”

From the Play
** The Berg”’

Based on the Titanic
Disaster

 
    

 

          
    
 
  
    
     

 

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.

CHARLES ROGERS
“HEADS UP.’

      
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bidg. Halifax, N.S.

    
     
       
  

   
 
 

 

    

 

  

Students !

The next time you want
your laundry finished in
ahurry and want it done
neatly—call the

Home Laundry

32 BILBY ST. Phone L2331

 

 

   
   

   

 
 

   

   
   

   

 
 

   

    

 

    
 

   

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

   

 
   
 

Good for You

Recreation in moderation
is always beneficial. That
is why many young people
enjoy visiting a very desirable Lunch and _ Ice
Cream Parlor .°. .*. .*,

   
  
 

 

 
 

      

The Green Lantern

 

 

 

 

Imperial Debaters

Continued from page 1.

work Mr. Jost had undertaken in
an Honours Course in Economics and
Political Science prevented him from
participating in intercollegate debates,
but his voice the while, was not silent] athlete, spent his holidays at his hcme
on # the floorg of g Sodales. He will t
graduate this ‘year in Arts, and probably enter Law next year.

   

 

October 15th, 1930

PERSONALS.

Inez Irvine, Arts 30, has returned
to her home in Calgary. Her many
friends here are sorry that she has
gone so far away from Halifax. Rumour says she is going to teach some
place in Alberta.

Leigh Miller, Arts '29, world-known

in Elmsdale. He was in Halifax for a
few days, and was warmly welcomed
by his many friends here.

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE

OFFERS
ENGINEERING COURSES

IN
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.
Write Or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

IDEAL FACILITIES FOR

Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

 

RRRRRARERKRKACRAQKAKQKRK S \ ‘ x S s s ‘f ‘s s ‘A ‘ \
DOWD WM NIV nrgeonegnegwneannnanngsegnensngned

T'S THE MARK OF DISTINCTION AND VALUE—THE FASHION-CRAFT LABEL

TYLE

is the sauce that spices the dish,
but the dish itself is the warmth
and wear that the new

FASHION-@CRAFT

OVERCOATS will give

STYLE, QUALITY AND VALUE
BEYOND COMPARE

   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

From $9 5

Fall Furnishings

New Neckwear, $1.00
Spats, $2.50 and up
Soft Felt Hats, $4.00 to $8.00
Shirts, Sox, Mufflers and Gloves

Already for your inspection.

Colwell Brothers

Limited
453 Barrington Street

 
