  
  
   
     

i : m7
_«

oe
=

rae
Bi

_ DeltaGamma

é
'

 

LILLIAN SADLER

- Popular member of the Senior class.
She has, during the past three years,
taken a keen interest in various societies
and has always given her time to many
This year she is

_,. college activities.

  

rahi _ Secretary of her class, for which she
has been an enthusiastic worker. Miss
-- Sadler has shown great ability as a
debater and was leader of the Girls’
Intercollegiate team last year. She is
--~-—-*~President of the Midlothian Society

__ for which she is an ardent worker, due
to her fondness for literature. She is
an exceptionally clever student and the
winner of a scholarship. Miss Sadler
is President of the Kappa Beta Phi

7. Fie oa 2
Ba _ Soriority.
‘ay 7 ;

ol.

/ 7 ae), : ah

\ ; i ea . r

a > 7a if

. Lach. ‘ont
Late aft on Pe Me ,
, Eis | j

i Ay ; F

©

  
    
       
     
  

 

re ee alt

— ©

    

crs tery

on the night of Friday, Nov. 21st. The
dance committee, ‘Tom’, “Polly,”
- “Warren,” ‘Doug’ and ‘Dot” are
to be heartilly congratulated upon the
success attending their efforts. The
hall at the Green, looked the prettiest
it has ever looked, Streamers of red,
' -. white and navy blue were hung the
length of the room, and on each side of
- the orchestra, one corner was hung in
Pine Hill colour and the other in Dalhousie black and gold. The _ programmes were not only exceptionally
nice-good looking, but they are the
most original sofar. Done in Pine Hill
colour, blue and grey. They are cut
to resemble banners, with Pine Hill
rinted on the face, Prof. and Mrs.
riffin chaperoned the party and
Selden Crimps’ orchestra furnished the
music for it.

_ King’s C.S. Grads

at Dalhousie.

eS

There are 38 graduates of King's
Collegiate School at Dalhousie and
King’s this year, including such promin- ent ones as Arthur Pattillo,
ae Oyler, Gordon McKinnon, Murray
Fraser, Frank Hebb, etc. Gordon
Harris is Secty.-Treas. of the Old Boys’
Association. Copies of the “Old

+

 

wi

3.
a

the University library.

Hill Dance |

mreMERT ME Tet Sw hsenreten
Die. The Pine Hillers held a most enaN _joyable dance at the Green Lantern}

 

 

 

Srominent Senior|Dalhousie Girls to
and President of | Debate at Anti
gonish.

——

As there is only one more edition of
the Gazette before Christmas, this
seems to be an opportune time to explain a few of the plans for the Girls’
Intercollegiate debate to be held sometime next spring, and to try and arouse
interest in the coming event. According to the schedule drawn up by the
Maritime Girls’ Intercollegiate Debating League, Dalhousie girls are sup
osed to debate St. Bernard College
ere in Halifax, but due to the kindness
of the Debating Society at Mt. St.
Bernard, they have changed the
schedule, so that Dalhousie can have
the trip to their college in Antigonish,
The trial to choose the Dalhousie team
will be held directly after Christmas.
Any girl who is anxious to make the
debating team will thus have a chance,
As soon as the subject is chosen, it
will be announced, so watch the noticeboards in the girl’s cloak room for
further announcements, We want a
large number of girls to turn out for
the trial this year, and really take a
keen interest in the debate to be held.
We wish to have plenty of competition,
so that those who are chosen will feel
it has been a real trial, and that it is
an honor to be on the Dalhousie Debating Team, It’s your chance girls;
don’t let the opportunity pie

 

History of Delta
Gamma Reviewed

Object of Society has
changed with passing
i oe years

 

There is probably not one person
at Dalhousie University who has not
heard of Delta Gamma, but how many
know when this society originated and
what was its object?

The first meeting of Delta Gamma
was held on September 22nd, 1899, and
the constitution of the new society was
drawn up. The main object expressed
was that interest should be stimulated
in literature, science and philosophy
and that practice should be given in the
presentation of subjects. Every
woman student of the University was
to be elegible for membership and was
automatically so on the payment of
the Student Council Fee.

To-day the object of the Society has
changed somewhat due largely to the
growth in the number of women at
tending the University. The  programme of the year usually is made up
of debates, one-act plays, skits, original
entertainments, musical presentations
and addresses by prominent people,
Thus the original object is not wholly
lost to view.

The meeting after the business is
over, and the evening programme has
been concluded, afford excellent op
Potter | portunity for the city girls to become

acquainted with the Hallers and viceversa. Many become friends from
their meeting, in the first place at Delta
Gamma who would otherwise only have

Boys’ Bulletin’’, edited by him, are in| been mere speaking acquaintances,

 

| Raph Morton is Awarded I.O. D.E.
Bd Scholarship

 

a tt : The selection committee, I. O. D. E. scholarship, has announced that
| ____ the scholarship for 1931 has been awarded to Ralph S, “Kelly” Morton. This
____ announcement will undoubtedly be received with much favour by the students

i PE ew
a

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  

ie
%

oe. _ RALPH MORTON

of the university and all those eho have had the privelege of meeting Kelly.

He received his B, A. in 1929 and this
year will graduate in Law. It is his intention to study at the University of
London next year following up his
desire to go into journalism. It is a
great opportunity for this young man
who undoubtedly has a wonderful future
in store for him. During his years at
college Kelly has taken an active interest in all college activities—for three
years he was connected with the Gazette
and last year was Managing Editor.
Besides being a very valuable member
of the Gazette Staff, Kelly was a great
success as Editorofthe 1928 Year Book
He has been the foremost actor at the
University and an excellent cheer leader
at the games. He is one of the leaders
in the new fraternity and was responsible
for the founding of the Little Theatre
movement. The committee has chosen
wisely, not only have they selected a
student, but one with qualities of
leadership and upright character, The
Gazette wishes to extend to Mr. Morton
its heartiest congratulations and best
wishes for the excellent future which
waits him,

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 26ru, 1980.

| New Warden of Shirreff Hall ||What Is

 

 

MISS ANNA MCKEEN

 

Law Wins Title

 

Former Game Vivawn Out-----Don
Grant Scored for Victors---Coleman and Matheson Stars

 

In a replay of the game between
Commerce and Law for the Interfaculty rugby championship, Law came
out on the long end of a 3 to 0 score on
Thursday noon at Studley. Commerce had previously won the title,
but Law protested the game on the
grounds that Commerce had _ used
ineligible men, and the D. A, A. C.
management committee upheld the
ea ordering the game to be replayed,

Thursday’s game was one of the
best of the interfaculty season. The
day was ideal for a game, and both
teams played hard football with excitement running high among the partisan
rooters. There was little to choose
between the two teams. Neither
one was able to control play for any
great length of time. Law got the
jump at the start and things looked
bright for a score within the first few
minutes. The Lawyers ‘were down
on the Commerce five yard line shortly
after the opening .kickoff, forcing the
play all the way. A stubborn defence
held them back and they were unable
to go any farther. A number of short
kicks by Stoddard relieved the situa
tion wich play back to centre field,
where it remained for a short while.
One of the Commeftce front line men
was hurt, necessitating a change in
their scrum, which however did not
alter matters as the ball was coming out
of the opposing scrums about evenly.
Commerce advanced the ball up the
field. After a scrum on the Law
twenty yard line Commerce were
awarded a penalty kick almost directly
in front of the posts, The kick failed
to go over striking the hands of one
of the Law men, It was a beautiful
chance forascore which went to naught.
The Law scrum settled down somewhat
and the ball started to come out regularly. Coleman was getting the ball
at flying half and kicking for repeated
gains. Whenever Law attempted to
use their three-quarter line, the Commerce men would bring them down in
their tracks without any gain. There
was plenty of effective tackling on
both sides.

The only score of the game came in
the dying moments of the first period.
Commerce men failed to gather up a
loose ball near their own line, and Don
Grant, one of the forwards for Law,
scooped it up and went over for a try,
Coleman failed to convert. Immedia
tely after the kick the whistle blew
ending the period,

Play in the first few minutes of the
second period was somewhat slower
than that of the first. Law seemed
content to hold to their slight lead,
and were on the defensive, resorting
to kicking the ball to touch at every
opportunity, The ball was going from
one end of the field to the other, first
in Law territory, then in Commerce,
and back and forth, Commerce determined to put an end to these tactics
and tried hard to get a score. Their
backfield were making nice runs for
long gains. They were down on the
Law five yard line about the middle
of the period. A number of scrums
were held, and a dispute arose when
Commerce claimed that Ross had
crossed the line for a try and was carried
back by Law. The referee called
another scrum on the one yard line.
Law got the ball and kicked it oué of
danger. Play was now centered in Law
territory about forty yeards from the
line. Commerce made another desperate sally for a tying score but were
unsuccessful, Ken Matheson at fullback was relieving all the dangerous
situations, with long kicks which were
finding touch. Each time Commerce
advanced the field, they were forced
back again. For the last five minutes
of the game the ball was in centre
field. Law were getting it from the
scrum and Coleman was kicking the
ball into touch, The game was slowed
up considerably as Commerce were
unable to get going, The final whistle
found the play still at centre field,

Archie Mc Donald refereed.
The teams line up as follows—

Law—Fullback, K. Matheson; Three
quarters, Cowan, M. Keating, C. LeBrun, A. McInnis; Halves, C. Hicks, J.
Coleman, R. Donahoe; Forwards, J.
Haslam, A. McDougall, T. Webber,
Smith, Levy, D. Finlayson, D. Grant,

Commerce—Fullback, W. Goodman; Threequarters, B, Brown, C,
Anderson, T. Baird, E. Bishop; Halves.
B. Stoddard, Curry; Forwards, R,
Hatfield, T. O’Brien, A. Baird, C.
Zinck, R. Thompson, H. Ross, C
Stanfield,

For the winners, Coleman, Matheson
and Grant were outstanding. The
Law team as a whole played a fine
game. For Commerce there were no
particular outstanding players. Stoddard and Goodman showed up well.

 

 

 

Why is the library not open
on Saturday night less than
a month from the Xmas exams
last Saturday night a large
number of students went there
io study, to do some work thai
could not be done at home.
And it was closed. it is bad
enought to have it closed on
Sunday but when i comes to
having it closed on Saturdaythe thing has gone too far.
There are four people employed wm the library. Sureiy
there should be no trouble in
making arrangements for some
one to work Saturday evening.

neglected. Whoever is respon
sible for this oversight should
apoligize to the students and
sce to vt that it dues not happen
again.

 

Commerce Society

Holds Meeting

Discussion Groups to be
Renewed—Another
Millionaire Ball
to be held

The Commerce Society held their
first meeting of the year last Tuesday
at. noon in the Arts Building with a
large number of members present.
Potter Oyler, president of the Society
was inthechair. Professor McDonald,
head of the department, outlined the
nature of the discussion groups that
had been held in previous years by the
society and the meeting went on record

as favouring the renewal of these
meetings. It was also decided to
have outside speakers address the

society on vital Commerce subjects.
The first speaker will probably be heard
this week.

Concerning the big Commerce Dance
it was decided that in view of the successful staging last year, a second
annual Millionaires Ball would be held
next term, the date and place to be
settled at a subsequent meeting, A
dance committee was chosen consisting
of Jean Leslie, Patricia Cann, George
Thompson, Charles Stanfield and Gordon Cooper,

Managers were appointed for all the
Commerce teams in the various
interfaculty leagues. George Thompson was elected rugby manager; Charlie
Stanfield for hockey; Bob Thompson
for softball; Turner O’Brien for basketball and Charlie Stanfield for badminton,

Co-operation has been sadly

No. 8

Wrong?|Member Class ’31

and Head Girl at
Hall ThisYear

 
   

 

     

Sd

HEMPH

GERTRUDE ILL

Warden of Hall

Miss Ania: McKeen

Miss McKeen comes to us from
Simmons College, Boston, where for
five years she was dean of the Graduate’s House. Her scholastic record is
notable. She attended Trafalgar
School at Montreal and later entered
Royal Victoria College, McGill.

After her graduation from Royal
Victoria and before going to Simmons,
she was one of the staff of the Royal
Victoria.

Miss McKeen is the daughter of the
late Dr. R. A. H. McKeen of Glace
Bay, C. B. and her brother, Dr. R.A,
H. McKeen of Halifax is a well-known
bactereologist of Dalhousie University.

The girls of Shirreff Hall feel themselves most fortunate in having Miss
McKeen for their Warden. A stranger
to them in the early Fall, she has
already become a vital part of their
college life, and their friend.

 

K. C. S. Old Boys
at College Play

Seventeen Dalhousie and King’s
students were included in the large
party of Haligonians who made a trip
up to King’s Collegiate School, Windsor, last Wednesday to be present at
The annual foot-ball game between the
present K. C. S. team and the “old
boys’, Later in the day the Annual
Reunion Banquet, under the auspices
of the Old Boys’ Association, was held,
sixty being present. Amédng those who
played on the Old Boys’ team were
Gordon Cooper, Erskine Campbell,
Fred Moore, Harvey Cole, Tom Stentaford, Charlie Harris, Bill Miller, Dave
Mitchell and Dave Morris, Others
who made the trip included Gordon
Harris, Fred Morrison, Tanner Smith,

 

Ted Thorne, Horace Mitchell, Jack
Crowe, Ernest Caldwell, Hartley
Brown,

 

Many Prominent

People Commen

Paid Coach.

 

Mr. S, R. Balcom, former Dalhousian,
recently wrote the Gazette, commenting on Mr, A. M. Smith’s letter,—
‘‘Dalhousie needs a paid coach, not
only to turn out better teams but that
more students should learn the game
as it should be played. This can not
be done by one or two men who have
but an hour a day to think of football.”’
So says this former “Tiger.”

Mr. McCarthy, coach of Caledonia
Rugby team,—‘‘Woefully weak on the
fine points of the game, the Tigers
need a thorough course on a blackboard.
lhis is the only way to get the “theory”
of the game.’ ‘Mac’ spent several
years coaching teams in the Maritimes,
serving three years. at Mt. A., a season
with the Wanderers and now with the
Maritinie Champs. He has been assoclated with Rugby for 22 yarrs and !earned it in the Old Country.

Another man, prominent in Maritime
Rugby, viewing the game Dal put up
against Mount Allison in the early
part of this season said Dalhousie has
more rugby material than any other
college in Eastern Canada, but it is
not developed, and will not be until
there is a systematized scheme of
coaching,

Fred Kelly, coach of Acadia University, had three of last years first team
with which to work and at the end of
the season had a nicely working team.
Ray Smith of Mount Allison had but
five of last year’s squad to form a

nucleus and he turned out a team that
was very creditable, 4

Dalhousie lost but three of thei
team through graduation and several
men came in from other Universities
and yet the team did not play football
up to the standard of last year.

So far we have been discussing the
coaching of football only, but the same
can be said of the other major sports;
Hockey and Basketball. Proper guidance is essential if we are to produce
a team equal to the calibre of the players
we have at Dalhousie.

 

Dalhousie Night
at Fi orum

The managing committee of the
D. A. A. C. have made arrangements
with the management of the Forum
for four skating nights this year and
all that is needed now is the sanction of
the Council, This encouraging news
was disclosed at a recent meeting of the
committee to consider important business.

The matter of awarding athletic D’s
to the graduating students of the
various teams was discussed and the
matter left in the hands of Don McRae
who is to interview the proper authorities regarding the feasibility of the idea,

 

Bees ks ee eee
‘oe

 
-. Bn i :
ee
a substantial portion of this issue has been prepared entirely by
BA oh: -femin ine members
_-been written t . the |
consequently the discussion of its advantages or disadvantages
has become
therefore,

i ¥ P
“7

F : ; mS *

1%
yi
i

Aa

" eb

er

a.
ees)?
S

% Che

2 ~ Py

‘eet’ hy
iy ne

f a he 7 7

J oi - if ( 7s f
aA: 27 OF
_ ae

ee:

,
af i:
ie ale. J
ol
v

a

He
A
7

=
yi.
oa

‘i i ‘ the business world, but in all fields of endeavor.

4

iy

»

he is subjected to examination.

Ad

ps i"
Paar oh

re

there is the case of the man.

in the Spring should be perfectly valid. High marks ave
-——s centive to do better, and not an encouragement to laz'ness.

+ ie ss

the pas
impression. He in
term and, the Spring exam being somewhat more difficult than the

pone

7.
War.

f eet FF anh Sok Usa Ses

x

ne
i

a
a

ve

contr
co-eds

r

~- number of periods of more or less intense thought in the gymnasium.

marks they have made?

student makes a high mark at Christmas he will be eager fo

os '

- er ee
: re AAT if
eS 4 
which they participate.
ful conduct o
the Gazette, as in the present year,
of assistance from the

Ce

BY My Beatty, K.C., the

 adian stated that while ability was important for success it was

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

|Something to —
Argue About

(A column inviting commeni and controversy).

A Conversational Discovery.
A Paid Football Coach.
Magazines in the Library.

,

Managing Editor:
A. GORDON COOPER
Py 2148;

4

a Sudden lignt has been cast on a
problem of paramount importance
which -has been enveloped for a long
time in Stygian darkness. In comparisod with this question, the Riddle of
the Spinx fades into oblivion, and the
most abstruse formula of science becomcs a plaything for children, The
enduring enigma, the perplexing paradox of the past has always been—what
do women discuss among th-ms.!v-s?
Atlast a mighty mal-_ has triumphantly
-ssay-d to solv. th. puzzle. This
intrepid investigator,) who is a psychologist of note, proudly confesses that
his indomitable scientific spirit persuaded him to “listen in” on hundreds
of female conversations, and so discreetly did he perform that he was never
detected. These eavesdropping -xperiments led the old scallywag to conclude
there are only three real topics of
conversation among women—men,
clothes, and other women. Further than
this, he says, the first subject occupics
sixty percent. of the discussion! All of
which though very interesting, and
gratifying to masculine vanity, is
scarcely complimentary to that some
; what variable quantity, the female inAppreciation. telligence. However, since these re
. searches were not made among university students, it is probable, as a campus
wit remarked with a Voltairean gesture,
that the girls of Shirreff Hall could raise
the sixty per cent. close to the century
mark.


*

TA. GOUDGE,
Tir BAUPHINEE

med oY Ne
"
e. a
hy

TE
. ;

Sports Editor:
F. R. DUXBURY.

CHARLES MILLER,

’ ; DO! \S GI iE +
ROBERT KANIGSBERG,

(ELIZABETH MURRAY.

EARLE GOLDBERG.

Asst. Business Manager:

DONALD MAHON,
L 2074

In charge of this Issue:
. . ELIZABETH MURRAY
MARGARET DORMAN

3

~ Attention of the readers of the Gazedie is diawn to the fact that

of the staff and the co-eds generally. Much has
n college papers on the subject of co-education, and
a somewhat hackneyed theme. It is not intended
aragraph be construed as a further
tikution on the subject. We merely wish to point out that the
at Dalhousie support whole-heartedly student activities in
the They thus assist materially the successthout the realm of the academic. And so
has always received a full measure
feminine part of oes eee body.
Ve thank the co-eds for this assistance, particularly in the instance
a: edition, and bespeak for the Gazette its continuance.

The editorial in last week’s Gazette
stressed very strongly the need for a
paid foot-ball coach at Dalhousie, and
we would like to heartily concur with
the suggestion. This matter has
been mooted for some time in
various quarters without any action
on the part of the authorities,
but perhaps the results of the present
foot-ball season, together with the
concentrated effort ot interested
students, will bring about the desired
metamorphosis. Anyone who takes the
trouble to examine the present system,
cannot fail to see its inadequacy. Our
foot-ball squads are entirely dependent
for their coaching, upon certain generous members of the Alumni, who
sacrifice considerable time from other
duties to assist the team. In view of
the fact that these coaches can only
devote a portion of their time to instructing the players
produce are good, The team and the
students certainly appreciate their un‘selfish spirit, But the point is that
Dalhousie should not be dependent upon
members of the Alumni to coach her
foot-ball squads. In short, as has been
urged again and again, there is a cogent
need for a full-time, paid coach, who
can devote himself entirely to the
training, instruction, and development
of foot-ball teams. This is no amusing
innovation, but a logical necessity
brought about by the general development of the University in all departments. The alternative is the gradual
death of foot-ball at Dalhousie, a
college whose prowess at that grand old
game, spans the continent. It is up
to the student body to decide which
they want—a paid coach, or eventually
no foot-ball at all. If they choose the
former, then there must be some
organized action! The Student’s
Council have it in their power to make
such a change. They will do so, if
the students signify their desire for it.

that this brief p

;
J &

, “

f affairs wi

ee

‘Success.

ars much has been written on how to achieve
Id o "business. ~The careers of Men who have
‘ot accomplishment have been presented in detail
Bice sebiesl works and magazine literature,
readers among those who are seeking some

wl them by rapid stages to a

sen laid too often on mere
_ The basic foundation of

with its attendant

0 al ich will lea
; 2 sun. FE SE asis h on oe
dea anid intellec tual attainments. |
reat successes, namely character,
onality, has often been overlooked.
The above point was stressed rather forcibly by Mr. E. W.
President of the Canadian Pacific Railway
the occasion on his receiving a degree

system the other day on
ao ; his Alma Mater. This prominent Can
McGill University,

not more important than character and personality. “Even in
modern business it pays to be honest, frank and loyal,” he declared.

And he might have added that his statement applied not only in
he busine The fundamental

virtues are still of utmost importance to the achievement of success.

Examination Results.

Examination lists posted during the past week bring forcibly
to the student’s attention that he is again to be sentenced to a

A number of derogatory remarks
have been passed recently, on the very
inadequate number of current magazines available in the MacDonald
Library. These criticisms are entirely
justified, as anyone can see who examines the various periodicals reposing
in the reading room. With the exception of two or three, there is not a
single magazine of interest to the
general reader. We find copies of such
things as Italian, Spanish, German and
French Reviews, at! east four advanced
Mathematiczl Reviews, not to speak of
several magazines dealing with abstruse
economic, sociological and psychological
problems. These would all be justified
if they were read by a sufficient number
of the students. But such is not the
case. Indeed, it is doubtful it even the
professors peruse many of them. Undoubtedly the only sane method is to
include among the current periodicals,
a few more magazines of popular or
semi-popular type, such as Harper’s,
The Golden Book, The Reader’s Digest,
The Forum, The Literary Digest, and
even perhaps MacLeans’. None of
these it is true, rank very high as
literary achievements, but in spite of
this, they might assist in encouraging
the students to read. We just can’t
get out of our heads that the majority
must be catered to in such matters.
Anyhow the change might be worth

trying.

And again the old system will be followed of keeping the. student
almost entirely in the dak as to his standing in the classes in which
( ) Why are students who write the
refused the privilege of definitely knowing what
Under present conditions the only
method of finding out exactly where one fits is to fail. The professois, in that sad event, are then permitted to communicate the
exact mark of the unfortunate person’s paper to him. Otherwise
one’s mark is guarded jealously by the authorities, and remains
something to be guessed at by the person most interested.
How can one explain this secrecy on the partjof the authorities?
We know of no reasonable explanation. But we have heard that an
all-wise Senate has decided that if a student knows that he made a
mark of sixty-four or more at Christmas when he expected less,

he will lay down on the job the tollowing term and hence fail in

the Spring, or just scrape thiough. This attitude is not giving
the student much credit tor possession of ambition or pride in
accomplishment, for certainly the counter argument that if a
r more

an inThen

who gains a forty-one. Oftimes he is

prone to over-rate his ability and fondly imagines that he has
escaped a first class by a few marks only. The manner in which
pass lists are published at present does not correct this false
studies no harder in this subject the following

Christmas tests

*

eSCc

istmas, he is plucked, much to his surprise. It
mo cases such as the above, that a premium is placed
n failure since it is far better to have a thirty-nine and know 1
han to be kept in the dark about a mark in the lower forties.
So this year we ask for the marks of the Christmas examinations
concealment. Such a course is only fair to those who study
vturally Bese the results of their work. The others’
is question should not matter so much. Unless we are misin the attitude of the students at large to this question, there
‘owing sentiment for no concealment of Christmas results’
- would be in the interest of the students to know exactly
y stand and surely not a great concession on the part}
ties to grant this dispensation. TherefOré we urge|
hat there be publication of the results of the coming|
mark each student has obtained

set at Chi
st appears in

4A
a;

Truth and Fiction

The following incident actually ha
pened to one of Dalhousie’s Colds
Strange lady on train to college girl:
"Vou go to college, do you not?”

College girl: “Yes, to Dalhousie.”

‘Strange lady: ‘‘I thought so. I can
always | tell co-eds as they look so

tTpPori

; funny.

ity

P
f
:
3" vat a
fed el » é

yeaty" oat a8, *

es
Nig tA

ae
iy ae ces ii
: ea Me

iP 0 eae r
ws cy! ee ye a
wy tee i 7" 7 ra! Ge

7

amet

, the results they

Canadian College
Comment

“There has been a decided step
taken forward in recent years as witnessed in the Hart House Debates,”
said C. N. Cochrane, B.A., M.A., Ox.,
Dean of men in residence at University College, in an interview with “The
Varsity,” “and I believe that the visiting of the Great Britain debaters has
done much to cause this improvement,”

With reference to an editorial concerning the probable reasons for the
result of the debate against the representatives from Great Britain, the
Dean voiced the opinion that he agreed
with it in many ways, but that he did
not see that it would take eight or
nine centuries for the undergraduates
of the University of Toronto to develop into debaters of equal, if not
superior, calibre to those two young
men from the mother land.

“One of the great drawbacks seems
to be that we have not the necessary
literary background, We do not read,
let alone study our native tongue to
as great a degree of perfection as at
Oxford,” said the Dean. ‘‘Formerly it
has been the custom here to hold oratorical contests rather than debates.
Thus the spouting, for that is what
it developed into, of long winded
phraseology which in its own way may
be good, but which does not develop
the art-of thinking for one’s self on
one’s feet.”

“The American style varies again,”
he went on, ‘They use extensively
prepared and well enumerated points,
Here we find more actual preparation
is necessary than initiative on the spur
of the moment. One man seldom debates longer than ninety years and if
we have any gumption there is absolutely no reason why we cannot pick
up the Oxford debating style in one
generation.”

Dean Cochrane stated that he had
every confidence that in the near future, with the aid of visiting debaters
from across the seas, we would be
able to do more than hold our own
with any that might be pitted against
us.—Varstty.

“Tt is not possible to compare the
universities of France with the universities of Canada,” said Mr. Debray
of the French Department of University College. ‘A French student does
nothing but specialize in his university
course. The work of the Pass Course
and the first or second years of an
Honour .Course is covered at the Lycee
which corresponds to our high schools.
The French student is introduced to
philosophy, logic and psychology at an
earlier age than in Canada. Of course,
the educational. methods of both countries have arisen out of the individual needs.” Py ee 6

L. A. MacKay of the Classics Department, University College, gave
The Varsity some interesting facts
regarding the life of an undergraduate
at the University of Oxford. “A
student must be within the college
grounds by 9 o'clock. A late leave
allows him to stay out until midnight.
The breaking of these rules is looked
upon as a major offence which is punised by fines and may lead to the
expulsion of the miscreant,’”’ He added that there is absolutely nothing to
keep a student out until after nine
o’clock.

“Oxford is about two years ahead of
Toronto in its literary courses, but
on a level in science. A graduate of
the University of Toronto in classics,
for example, finds that he has to do
extra work to keep up to the standard
of a third year student.”—Varsity.

Toronto, Ont., Oct. 8, 19380.—That
the average Canadian undergraduate
is too youthful and too much preoccupied in sports to take an active
interest in national politics is the asser
tion of Victor Lange, German exchange student at the University ofToronto, On the other hand, declares
Mr. Lange, politics are the dominating
factor in German university life.

Mr. Lange, who is the first exchange
student from Germany to a Canadian
university, is a graduate of the Universities of Leipzig and Munich and
is taking a special course in English and
History. He comes to this country,
under an exchange scheme instituted
by Professor H. J. Davis, of the
University College, Toronto.

Besides his studies in the German
centres, Mr. Lange has resided for
some time in London and Paris, and
spent a few months in New York, on
first arriving at this continent. He is
keenly interested in classical music and
is himself an accomplished violinist.

Mr. Lange is not favourably impressed by Canadian newspapers,
which he scorned for their careless
handling of news concerning European
political issues. He is, however, impressed with Canada's freedom, from
the speed-mania, which is so prominent
in the United States. He feels that
Canadians know how to take advantage
of leisure and that they prefer to advance slowly and surely, rather than
make progress by radical changes.
Var sity.

Class ’33 Meeting

There was a meeting of Class '33
on Thursday, November 18th with the
president, Dick Squires in the chair.
The question bought before the meeting was whether it was advisable or
not to have a class party. The majority was not in favor of it. The

porrry
meeting then adjourned.

hae
Se aa 7 { ’ a i ‘
as - ae at . z. iP ,
Ria 4 1h a, » Sour < ae

Vos ae PS, co oer Bhd ube

%
ue

Workingman’s

Philosophy —

A

Some time ago an Italian workingman was seen digging a ditch. He was
asked why it was that he was working
so industriously: Spontaneously he
replied, “I digga the ditch to getta the
money to buya the food, to getta the
strength to digga the ditch.”

Some thought should be given to this
workingman’s summing up-of his entire
life in a catchy philosophical phrase.
How many of us, if we seriously asked
ourselves the same question, would not
be in the same category?

After all, why do we work, but in
order that we might have money?
Why do we want money, but for expenditure on our natural and unnatural
desires? And after expenditure comes
the return to work.

We pride ourselves, in this present
age, in the fact that we are progressing.
But is there any progress if one returns
to the starting point after tortuous
wanderings? It is true that we are
doing things on a bigger and better
scale, but are we not increasing our
unnatural desires proportionately? And
whether it be the long trail or the
narrow path, does it not lead us back
to our starting point? If we have
natural desires, and satisfy them, then
there will be uniform speed throughout
the cycle. Our unnatural desires cause
a speeding up of the cycle and results
in a medley of increased pleasures and
displeasures. For life will lead us
through this never ending cycle. From
work to degeneration, from degeneration to regeneration, and then to work
again, All in conformity with a fundamental biological law.

And so the Italian workingman’s
philosophy, although only meant to
be applied to his own life, finds itself
intricately bound up with the lives
of us all in this perplexing Universe.

Dalhousie by the
Sea

—_-——
Just something which recalls

Those happy days and free,
Spent within the college walls

Of Dalhousie by the Sea.

A sigh, a tear and then
Some tender memory,

Of days that might have been
At Dalhousie by the Sea.

Of youth so young and gay
Their glorious days to be,

Roaming along Life’s way
At Dalhousie by’ the Sea.

Of those of yesteryear
_ Whose glories seem to me,
As memories so dear

Of the College by the Sea.

Just happy thoughts which stray
Within my memory,

Of treasured moment gay
At Dalhousie by the Sea.

GS:

Medical Society

—_— —_- +

The Medical. Society held a regular
meeting in the Public. Health Clinic
building on the evening of Thursday,
Nov. 20th. Z
relative to the _interneships. at. the
Public Health Clinic. Vice-President
Eddie Ross presided over the meeting.

The main discussion was.

November 26th, 1° :

Looking Glass

Dictatorship Ends.

A Light.

Maturity.

The Perfect Kiss.

A Girls’ Loiter Room.

Armistice Service—A step in right
Direction.

a 
Well, well, well, the dictatorship of
the ,dictator of the University has
come to an end—the climax being
reached at Shirreff Hall, Wednesday
night. He stormed and ranted, but
these girls: with a stubbornness that
is characteristic of- their sex, refused
give him anything more than an empty
ae program. “So hath the mighty
allen.”

Why do not the proper authorities
see to it that the basement of the library
is so equipped that when one enters
it at night itisnot necessary to a|most
get down on you hand and_ knees
to get along Surely a light would not
break the university—they sell for
fifteen cents: at Woodworth’s Now
that it is necessary to use the library,
they might give us thatmuch of a break.
After all we were not the ones who cried
out for these heart breaking struggles
with the books which that notice in
the library necessitates.

The Gazette ran an editorial last issue
on maturity It certainly must apply
to that freshman who was almost crying
the other day because he thought that
he had to write five exams in one day.
The reason for the impending flood
was the fact that he consulted the
lecture time-table instead of the examination one to see when he wrote.
“And the green grass growing all
around,”

A professor has asserted that the most
perfect kiss can only be had when the
two participants are the same height.
We won't say which prof, that was, but
leave it to you to guess. For further
information and appointments call Sac.
4123 W.

We understand that the girls want
a room in which they can loiter between
classes and they have requested that

‘|the matter be taken up in this column.

They say that the boys have the
basement to loiter in so therefore
they want a room to loiter in. Rather
the same idea as the girls want a yell
to yell because if the boys have a yell
;to yell why can’t the girls have a yell
to yell, which idea was agitated in the
Gazette last year. After all, if the girls
want a yell to yell and a loiter room to
loiter, why shouldn’t they have it?
They get nearly everything else they
Hie Come on boys give the girls a
| TheGaszette published an exceptionally ~
fine piece of poetry last week under the
title of Armistice Day. Coming from
the pen-of a student it is especially
deserving of \ praise. Probably many
readers did not agree with the idea
contained therein, but whatever our
individual opinions might be, I think
that we must admit that it was sincere.
And after all, when we stop and analyse,
isn’t there a germ of truth in what the
poet said? The soldiers in the last
war fought to uphold an ideal—to end
war for all time. Even now the cards
seem stacked for another great struggle.
After all is it worth it? Can we get
away from and break down the instincts: of the individual by the concerted-effort of afew. Hardly! Yet I
think that Armistice services are a step
in: the right direction. They may be
only ‘fa voice crying in the wilderness
with no language but a cry” but still
they call to mind the fruitlessness of it
all. In bringing that point home to the
peoples of the world lies our only hope
of peace,

---for campus and
class room------
clothes

that retain their

well set air even under
rough usage -- - -- 
-- modeled by hand by

canada

*s best craftsmen

and guaranteed to stand
plenty of wear and tear

priced reasonably in the
first place----and---students get a discount of ten per cent.

Shanes Mens Wear
Shop

30 Spring Garden Road, Halifax

 
ee ee

 
  

      
    
  
 
         
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
            
        
     
    
          
       
  
 
     
       
        
        
       
    
   
    
    
      
        
   

ey, he, wr A r m LY aH A : We a es > Peto i f i fh

f \ ; u , P sai es has are ae ns el os } md
% | u Pea ee" ee a ee os : we ft SI a i : ; , , a A ae :

a. % : at et x
' * z
' ‘
‘.

’ ie ; ;
ae i DALHOUSIE GAZETTE. Page Three

a mre .

i} Man’s

a ———— nS. ———e a

. | In college life the-Sigma. Theta Pi ac
Sig ma Theta P 7 | has played an important part it stats

EES ee

Bea ee Sere
, . , social. In e wen, is

The Sigma Theta Pi Sorority was|Captain, Jean Love business atenager
formed in the Spring of 1929 by a group| and Isobel Wood star-forward on the
of girls who felt that Delta Gamma) first team. Girls ice hockey at Dalwas too large a body to bring the Hall| housie was instigated by Peg Sproull,
and city girls in close contact. The Tilly Grant and Edith Allen (mgr. of

O

meee | 4,.)

| Toliveina garretin Paris on biscuits,| Sigma

-|red wine, and cheese; to spend more}

| than you earn and somehow get along;| ~ ote eee It is a heavenly night, and I feel

| to have gladly, unlawfully, a girl as so happy to be dancing in the dimly
_ {young and glad as yourself—this is| Pledge Chapter to Alpha Gamma lighted room, but yet there is some

 

 

    
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
    
 

   
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
     
    
 
   
   
  
  
  
    
    
   
  
 
 
   
  
    
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
     
 
 
 
  
     
     
         
    
     

*

f Pisa Sceduity: Pounds ae 7
_ Dalhousie. me

.
see oe hy) §
*

ds foie Member _

   
  
 

 

man's youth, the youth of the soul, thing indistinct about it all. It’s|}charter members were—Alice Nelson|the team), Isobel’ Wood is romin
‘  » ~Mrs, Hugh Bell. the gift of God, never to be forgotten. Reertns myself, and yet it isn’t. My face} Margaret Sproull, Jean Love, Helen | ent in ma saab Mackie “Alice

nbers of the Active Chapter.| He was an artist, of course, living International Sorority. looks like me, but I am a girl. Of] Nelson, Margaret Mackie, Alice Archi-| Nelson, Ruth Macaulay and Dorothy

illian Sadler, '31, (President). on a pittance, painting for the love of course, 1 am a girl, and the blurriness| bald, Anne Bell, Betty MacDonald, |} Rosier have all taken part in Convoca
ean Morton, '31, (Vice-President). |it, and the future, and a few occasional eee is clearing up gradually, and now I} Mildred Grant, Marian MacIntosh | tion plays, while Isobel: Wood, Helen

ye Paterson, ‘31, Treasurer). |sous; his dwelling a low-ceilinged back see a man sitting by the wall, looking|and Dorothy Rosier, Besides these} WacCoy, Peg Sproull and Tilly Grant
Helen Olmstead, ’32, (Secretary). room on the Rue de Colombe over- Honorary Members disconsolately at the scene. I look,} the present membership includes, Edith | have appeared in Glee Club shows:

_ Phyllis Skeen, 81; Carol Sandford,| looking a court where a mouldering Mrs. J. M. MacDonald. and-then suddenly I see his eyes| Allen, Isabel Wood, Isabelle Matheson,| Despite the numerous conflicts. of

; Ellen Gregory, '33; Elizabeth een suddenly come to rest on me, and, oh,| Gwendolyn Curry, Ruth Macauley, | the fall rushing periods seven new girls:

Aphrodite arose from the one-time Mrs. C. E. Kinley.

  

wunderson, '33; argaret Fairweather, ‘waves of an abandoned fountain, and what eyes they are—such a beautiful|Francis Beatteay, Victoria Fraser, /out of the eight who received bids,.
- ids

 

   

131; Cecily Kirby, -Gwynne Currie,/an ancient goat, tethered to a stump, ; passy colour like you read about in Jessie Fraser, Esther Elliot and Audrey | have been pledged. They are-—-Cathe
182; Frances Peat, 32; Doris -Marge-| chewed morosely on a few old bits of! Mary pe petlvg ea books. I ask my boy friend to in-| Thomas, erine Dek aude, Rathioen "Weer
2: i 31; Ruth Chisholm, '33; Mary] leather that lay scattered around. Laura Marshall 33. Vice-President. | troduce me to him, and then soon we ‘With the encouragement of Prof. C.' Helena Bishop, Margaret Montgomterye fall, 88; Muriel ae: '31;|_ He met Clilie when he was looking} Jane Smith '31, Secretary. are swaying together a beautiful] W. Smith and the advice of Mrs.|ie, Margaret Murray, Lilias Mac
__ Elizabeth Murray, ’32; Margaret Dor-|for a model for a youthful, grey-eyed}/ Marian Morton '33, Treasurer. dreamy waltz. Will I ever forget that|Smith (Pi Beta Phi) the organization | Donald and Eleanor Blivris.

  

was completed in the fall of 1929.] ‘The steady expansion of the three
We have kept the Sorority small} sororities has necessitated the formabecause it is felt that in this way|tion of the Pan-Hellenic * Council
stronge: and more intimate friendships|to solve difficulties arising in interare formed, and that in a larger mem-|sororal affairs. It has also done
bership it is difficult to maintain unity | much to maintain the friendly relations
throughout the group, This policy | which have always existed between the
has proved very satisfactory, sororities.

Evelyn Holloway '33, Guard. dance? My heart is singing; the
Beverley Chipman, ’81; Geraldine} whole thing seems unreal but I am
Simms, °81; Kathleen Doyle, '31;] supremely happy. The shyness about
Helen Williams, ’31; Clara Mitchell,| which I have been teased is gone.
82: Mary McCoubrey, '32; Phyllis| “Love at last,” I said softly, and it
Brown, '82; Isabel Chipman, ‘33; seemed he must have heard it. We
| Audrey Ryan, '33; Eirene Walker, "33; have another dance, then one more,
Edith Payzant, 33; Doreen Harper, ’38.| then another, and then we sat out
still one more in the corridor. He
puts his arm about me, and then I say
shyly, but so he can hear, and move
nearer, him: ‘‘Let me kiss you, my
Over the Tea-Cups darling’—and then just as I am}
reaching over and am just about to

kiss him, a bright light shines in my

face, and my room mate Bill Jones

Madonna, and he painted a bacchante |}
instead—a childish bacchante, a novice, |
with a tiny, pale, three-cornered face,
dreamy yellow eyes, and a cloud of
dusky curls. Clilie stayed on after the
bacchante was finished and sold. She
bought the provisions at the little shop
of Motawur Turan, swept the floor
when it could no longer with decency
be left unswept, and planted two
geraniums, a pink and a scarlet, in a
box overlooking the court.

And they loved each other passionately, body and soul, so that they were
swept from head to toot by white flame
at the brushing of fingers, and they had
faith in their fate, believing their : ; : roughly shakes me, saying meanwhile,
love Heaven-sent and eternal. They|, Pwo smart looking girls entering} Wel) you darn fool, Mike, What's
could smile at each other across their] lounge of Lord Nelson Hotel. F come over you. “Love at last.”
coffee and cheap cigarettes like children} Scene: Afternoon tea is being}, et me kiss you darling.’ What
over a secret too miraculous to be kept.|S¢rved. The room is set up with | in the Sam Hill? So Mike is not the
So they were happy, teiribly, tenderly, | prettily decorated tables. Murmuring| shy little Freshman we all took you
for a year and a month, and the end] VOICces can be heard. | ew, ig for?”
ie cS Wes decid tq Wave ic| came: Clilie was going to have a baby = ee be peeee er ae.

Be Ber xa "at Raping that we can |224 she fled, terrified by the new, vital Je ook at mr a ora Tee |
1 ard ore ook aa Pie As. usual | SUts'2s within her, to a beloved sister}@2¢ how noble Nelson appears as h€| here comes the fortune teller, I
5 Mave another edi ater d sat |in Providence; fled, promising to return, stands there as straight as the Statuc| must finish my tea. Can you beat
we danced in the dining ors tie Sat! forbidding him to follow. of Liberty. And how the deep creases] that, there isn’t a tea leaf in my cup
- in the hall, reception Se rae , eee The months that followed were drear|0f his noble brow are brought to our! What a bright future.
oy during re aan a f a ibaee and uneventful, the dust collected and | notice. Oh, hello, there is Mrs. Len- “Yes, that’s a good idea. Gosh,
aoe ek d pees ates! seater the geraniums died, until one day a| "OX. She lives right next to Ba oe this tea-pot is hot. I'll put a teaThe =e, WS he g _ 2 neta bed 4 tall, dark peasant came to the Rue how nice she looks in that pretty ae spoonful of tea-leaves in my cup....
guanis year there were ‘d that at de Colombe and delivered his message.| CO@t....n0, Its mot new. It’s a) Js it true Mary is going with him now?
) Sround fas. the, ne 7 nad “| Clilie, Mary keep her soul, had gone,| Secret... .1t was that old red one her) What happened the other flame—
ee ae aver eed M aN Ered Pe a and tir s-n withher. Theysleptunder| sister had last winter dyed...-oh| the eternal. ..., oh, here she is now...
i. the use. Mr. an Mi ae MacNeil the apple trees of Providence, under the thank you; gee, isn't it snooty how| What a lovely fortune you have, dear
and Prof. ve ae ee aC tis slanting sunshine, and very near the| they have men pull the chairs back|]____Alricht here is mine. Did you
aa had > aves i hey bs fad a | Sea. She had spoken his name in love. here for you—and push them in when say mine was full of excitement?....
ee usgusted as i filed a Foie |! Siviwey So he lert his painting for a while} you sit down. Thanks, now what .is Stop laughing, Kay....good times, and
m3 ey Race 7 a red = Viet Of}and went away, and never came back this? Menu, oh, thanks. Now what)q dance Monday. Kay, isn’t she
as: we'll have to Hic rl Ree hat we | to the room where a pink and a scatlet|about....well,. if that isn’t Mrs.| wonderfulb And my wish is coming
a fea cat. wee ‘ Bee aed geranium, to the window that over- Smith there, how pretty she looks....|true....Oh, don’t bother guessing
Pat Peta ae vane, Well fake ne looked a tired goat and an ageing| Believe it or not, that’s her ieee his initial. Kay and } both know it
et eee jad pestis ti roll 1 should Aphrodite. He had known the great- with her... . Yes, they do look like| _...Oh, thank you for the wonderful
, pee cee SOS , est tragedy, the tiagedy of all men.| Sisters, don’t they....Oh, yes, I fortune. But it. means, doesn’t it,
He had lost the loveliest thing. Some-| ™musnt keep the waiter waiting....I’ll| that I have to make my fortune, but

times it is a ship, the fitst and the have the same as you, English muffins! jt was worth 40c. Let’s go.”

‘and tea, Waiter, will you tell us (Two smart looking girls leave the

finest, sometimes a cottage where all

one’s memories are, and sometimes, | OUr fortune when we're through-.... lounge of the Lord Nelson( and one

oftenest, it is a woman, the dearest he| No- well, I like....1 didn't come here) is heard to say ‘‘J wonder why I’ve
to waste 40c for nothing?...oh, he} been so quiet to-day, Kay?”

shall ever know. 2
But he lived, and he painted, and he doesn’t read the cups but that woman

- man, '82; Nita Golding, "33; Anne
Allison, 33; Muriel Lawrence, '31.

iv

 

Letter to an Old
att Haller.

ff
fi!

‘ oe
i

 

 

 
 
  

© ait

Bt ;
si _ Shirreff Hall,

a3 Nov. 20, 1930.
Dear Marg:— — Ns

_ I know you will be dying to hear
a about the Hall dance and just what
everything is like this year. The
_ dance was last night, we had such a
big discussion whether it should be
' before or after Christmas that we had
‘to -have two house meetings and was
everyone excited. [| bet you had
nothing like it in your day—well,

 

  

Turret Hath Charms!

er

a , .,
ee
ry

 
  

  

rs P

  

 
 

  

  

      
   

 
 
   
   
   
       
      
    
 

Pk

aN

OS

WA a0

When Old Man Trouble comes
barging in, turn him into
Old Man Friendship
with Turrets. They
are packed with good

—~

 
  

 
 

 
 

  
    
   
  

 

  
  
            
    
   
     

    
 
  

  

_ say, cookies, mocca cakes and coffee,
not the ordinary Hall coffee, yes, the
my: P Senifes is the same as ever, that is one
_ thing that will never change. I guess
the stags didn’t enjoy it very much as

you see we filled out our programmes
‘beforehand, Some of them left. There}
| a stag, a freshman, tall}
ith li

 
   
  

  
  

   
     
     
      
    
   
    
  
 
  

  

  
  
 
 
  

   
  
 
 

darling stag, a freshman, ta!'! hung his pictures in the Gallery, for| over there—oh, that fern blocks the RX Z
as eer ae eum he had a touch of genius and could] view. Isn’t the music soothing? [| for & Xx go cheer as well as good
Ee ot ey Le i.) paint. a face from memory. And like the way the girl at the piano does | WEA

quality.

25c WA
mild and fragrant

Cigarettes
Save the valuable “POKER HANDS”

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
F ULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors

THE STUDENT’S TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING.
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

her hair....well, if that isn’t one of |
the profs. coming in, and I skipped
his class to-day...\Oh, how do you
do, sir....Am I going to the dance on
Monday, well I got a darling dress
at a perfectly marvellous bargain
yesterday....alright, if you promise |
not to tell, only $5.00 and it’s a perfect
dream....
‘Yes, wasn’t that too funny? He
was just calling her to ask her about |
the dances, and was thinking of me all |
the time—so he called her number,
and asked for me by mistake, |
guess she was pretty mad. That is|

psychological... Yes, that’s it. Well, |

shall write and tell you if he is
as he looks. Oh, I forgot to
jon that when we were getting
ady the lights went out, talk about
onfusion—it was just like the a 5
a es f the Dent. Hop last year, remember
that? I do wish you had have been
here. I know you would have loved
it. I don’t mean the lights, but the
dance.
- Gosh, Marg, you would hardly know
the old Hall. Miss MacKeen is a
dear, really we all adore her—imagine
if the phone rings she answers it and
trots after us. And do you know the
— ‘Jaundry is open at nights and on|sounds. Last year a change was made
«Sunday even though Westaver strong-!in the programme; membership was
ly objected, we can have fires in our/limited and social relaxation and
sitting rooms whenever we wish. It| pleasing informality were combined
certainly is great, as much like heaven} with an interesting study of modern
as any place could be. We have a|writers and matters of current interest.
_ dandy crop of freshettes this year, The society was founded by Kathgood looking and all the rest. erine Hanifen some years ago and has
There goes the phone, must answer|supplied a need which had long been
it or they will say the girls at Sheriff|felt for a literary discussjon group
Hall never answer it. You know the|among the women students. This

perhaps most important of all, he had
had youth to himself for an hour, which
is more, oh so much more, than most
re blest with having.

F. M. B.

Midlothian

The Midlothian Society, the Girls’
Literary Society of Dalhousie, is not
at all as forbidding as its sub-title

        

 

    
        
    
     
      
  
  
   
   
  
   
      
    

    
   
   
  
 
 

 

 
         
   
 

   

 

 

 
     
    
    
    

 

-- The New “
Fall Society Brand

styles are advanced, correct and
distinguished. The woolens are
rich, strong and exclusive. The

 

  

The |
Halifax Chronicle

AND

   
    
    
 
   
 
 
 

      
  
   
     
   
  
   
  
 

 

 
  
  
   
    

‘old story. year meetings are held on Tuesday aes :

- So long, evenings at Shirreff Hall. Papers Reta a aan Tso ting CaN. ore is the last ort Aa
Re Kay. have been read on Alfred Hayes, Th quality an expertness, and inyee —_—__~++e—_—_ Galsworthy and Bernard Shaw, which e PERMANENT WAVE cludes exclusive tailoring features

like the SNUG-EASE SHOULDER
and the VAC BLOC ARMHOLE

You obtain greater value for your dollar in Society
Brand Clothes than in any other make we know of

have been followed by discussion.
. The light that lies in woman’s eyes The executive consists of Lillian
these days may be only the reflection | Sadler, President and Katherine Hebb,
- of a cigarette tip. Secretary.

            
 
  
   
  
    
   
  

Halifax Daily Star Ringlets Ends $10.00

Regular $15.00 wave for $10.00
on the ‘‘Keen’’ machine

 

 

 

 

 

   

The which recently wen major e
i: x honors at Philadelphia against
eS fastest growing the world’s'best: | No. better Winter 2 Burns I td
' Pa , wave at any price. Marcel- 3
ey.” newspapers in ing Finger Waving and Bob- 439 BARRINGTON STREET.
a bing. —Its the cut of your clothes thai counis—

Noya Scotia Shield’s Beauty Parlor

510 ROY BLDG. __—‘Tel. B6748

 

5

 

 

At
re
t i
ie
¥
7 -* 7
‘
ce
LU % 7
La
|
. '
. é
i een

DY Gauville’s

fo

ee eee eon
Dealhiouaie Girls G. A. McDonald Leather Goods

 

    
 
  

   
  

There is $35 Value in

 

 

    
      
      
 

  

  

Bm: N ATION AL’S TOBACCONIST Portfolios and Loose

: : | uy ee of every Leaf Books, Bags and
record breaking k nosnicts tek of DL kranks: of all Kind
Suits and Overcoats and Imported and sizes .*. .. .*.

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

  
   
  
  
  
 
   

 

   

21 Spring Garden Rona |||) MELLYS, LID

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

ONE READY
PRICE TO
» ONLY WEAR

For Winter 1930-31 National Clothes
Shops announcea standard of Men’s
fine clothing at $23 that entirely
eliminates the need for any man to
pay one cent more, no matter how
fastidious he may be about style,
fabric, workmanship or fit. These
new National Clothes are equal in
every way of what are generally
recognized excellent values elsewhere at $35

 

  
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 

 

  
  
    
 
     
   
   
 
 
 

 

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

 

   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   

  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
   

   
    

 

° Two travel for same as one. .
National Clothes Shops tity Daron ME asain eteaeng
overs up to six. Halifax.

446 BARRINGTON ST. Limited

 
  
      

 

4 i
. ‘ 2 i . ‘
4 . oe) I » » ys i *
be ae PD Ree, iva . ; He Uh ls ere a8 t -— As ry nt:
i y, 7 +s 4 2 G 3 . a Mf : i 3 oe I 3 mar
Peete nota ee ea te te ait | ei WG abd tl Se

a a ih x
SST SS AEs ee TR RS a PP

    

   
     

cok

 
eae

ill Interfaculty

- Softball

|Year Book Staff

DALHOUSIE

as

Urge Support

Theology Defeats Fresh-| Doug Gibbon to be Editor

oman, nobly plann'd —

» comfort, and command.”
Wordsworth wrote many years
go and w me Rave reiterated to-day

if he had known Gertrude Hemphill.

_ She is more perhaps than the lines
_ imply—a friend to all and always

2

‘She has the
in

Pol = Oy Sue:
Owing to this, maybe every
ry ry Haller has a suspicion that she is one
‘% of their nearest friends. — nl
Born at Debec, N. B. not so very
ny years ago Gertrude immediately
ration and obedience o

.

_ allher friends by her ability of knowing |

t she wanted and how to get it—

for always remember, dearly beloved,
ee ogee ‘that Gertrude is a woman of infinite
d ae resource and sagacity. Having follow' ed the usual high school career,
- Gertrude came to college. She came
___ and Shirreff Hall was as though it were
swept by the fresh clean wind of the
West. + Her enthusiasm, her zest and
wit aroused people to a sense of their
1 ess and cleverness,
certainly it is not too much to say that
___ Shirreff Hall owes Gertrude a debt for
having it from a mental torpor,
‘It seems hardly necessary to ex-_ patiate on Gertrude’s mental abilities
and her sense of humour, They are
well-known facts. She was born to
ss appreciate things—to appreciate everything that makes up life—the beauty
and the incongruity. It would always
be a mistake to think that ever criti__ ¢izes. When she laughs it is never
ap Reo lecantly when she discusses art]
it is always in the hope of finding the
real beauty and not to try and dis---—s eredit anything for its faults.
ey Philosophy is her weakness especially
when it is disguised in the form of
-_- jiterature. A book of Anatole France
_ is likewise to her soul and would tempt
her far, Her liking for philosophy is
an expression of the idealist that Ger---—s trude is, She is always looking in that
direction for El Dorado and travels
re hopefully in Herbie’s wake.
aes. Biss achievements at college are the
-—-_— record of one who does things well.
-_—s A good debater and a good President of
Sherriff Hall. She does not seek after
__—henours, but enjoys doing that work
which has brought honour with it.
She has a dominating personality and
_ moves in her own path unhampered
—--—s* by the maddening crowd--the master
ee hg her fate and the captain of her soul.
‘g 7 i ft is : i a

v ae

ge cae?

“our

as

- bi

.
mm
\

[ iL 1 , r
Tih © im “ad
mG 1, “iy, 2%

o far been three gym
e girls have shown
iasm, even with

Whe aie was learned

Mia cx Be

nd so on were not in the course, the

st «was much more apparent,
= class is under Miss Harris’s inction, and will take up various

ae = ‘
a

au
J
7

H - or

_ as horse and parallel-bar work. Later,
when and if the girls want it, Miss
_ Harris has consented to teach some tap
dancing steps. This is sure to prove
an added drawing card.
On the first day of the class, Monday,
Nov. 17th, there were eight girls
present, but they showed such interest
and enthusiasm, that at least six more
were eager to start right in, As the
times allotted for the classes are so
short, it is felt that, for the week or two
_remaining before exams., the half-hour
spent in the gym would not only not be

a loss of time for the girls, but it would
rather be a distinct help to keep their
‘minds clear by a bit of exercise, After
Christmas will be, of course, the big
time, and if enough girls turn out
regularly, Miss Harris is looking forward to presenting some stunts at the
Gym Club Show in the Spring. The
girls have not participated in this show
since the Spring of '28.

“wr
j .

Girls Ice Hockey

The hockey season is not yet here,
but when it comes.......It is expected
that there will be a greater number of

_ girls at the practices this year than ever
fore. Already some of the Freshettes
have been inquiiing about the hockey

pei, teant, :
_-. Tt was surprising the interest displayed by the girls last winter; and not
_ only the girls but the young men as
well enjoyed the games played with
; 4 Dartmouth and the ‘‘Crystal Sisters.”
he recollection of ‘Frankie’ in the
nets is still very vivid.

.
4 "
ij
i
| nN
*

a ;
« Ma
f

“
a

_ Girls Badminton

5 : ‘

iP "5 __ Anew enthusiasm has been evidenced
this year in Girls’ Badminton. The
‘gymnasium is available three after- noons a week. This affords an opportunity for those to play Badminton,
____ who have time for only one or two of the
“4 f sir aes open to girls.
Gaeta progress, which kindles a
___ keen interest among the players, Find
- your name on the tournament list and |
challenge the Person ahead of you.
= Dalhousie should have players’ wel |
| Be var catinets. witht any "6

a, © Ue)

‘*

? 80° !

Christmas Ke eV

ard abilly of fading some: [
rare ability of finding some- |
omm everybody.) J
Shirreff ‘logy

arm-stretch- |

i + gtru
} ~~ tumbling and pyramid stunts as well ||. f

resent time a Ladder Tourna- f

~ men—Medicine Lick
_ Commerce in Saturday’s Games

Results of Saturday afternoons’
ames— ee

Theology—23 Freshmen—13.
Medicine—29 Commerce—l15.

In the opening game between Theoand Freshmen, the latter got
away to an early lead when they scored
‘six runs in the first inning, Theology
‘came back with four in their half, and
collected four more in the second
inni while they held Freshmen
scoreless. From then on until the
end they retained their lead. The
third and fourth innings netted them a
‘total ef thirteen runs and they got
another two in the final. Freshmen
staged a rally in the fifth inning which
gave them five {runs, but they fell
short of their objective.

Charlie Anderson pitched a_ fine
game for Theologs and with the excep
tion of the first and last innings, he
had Freshmen completely at his mercy,
Conn Surherland hurled a good game
for Freshmen but woefully weak support from his teammates in the field
proved his undoing.

The teams lined up as follows—
Freshmen—Tapley c; Sutherland p;
Uler 1b; Herma 2b; Lloy 8b; Ryan
s. s.; Irwin s. s.; Zinck rf; Bennie cf;
O'Brien lf.

Theology—Irwin ¢; Anderson p;
McSween 1b; Dickson 2b; Sullivan
3b; Miller s. s.; Braine s, s.; Oliver If;
Gordon c. f.; Archibald r. f,;

Dave Frank was umpire at the
plate and Ferguson was base judge

Score by Innings—

Theologs—4 4 5 8-2—23

Freshmen—6-0-1-1-5—13

In the second game Medicine walked
away from Commerce by a 29 to 15
score. Commerce were first at bat
and in the initia! inning the first three
men up were put out in one, two three
order. Medicine in their half scored
six runs, added janother six in the
second while Commerce got one lone
score, As the game progressed the
Commerce boys began to find the
offerings of the Meds and collected
three four and seven runs in the next
three innings. But the damage had
already been done and Medicine were
never in danger, Both pitchers hurled
nice games. Thompson for Commerce
had several strikeouts to his credit,
but when he was hit, his team mates
gave him very weak support letting in
a large number of unearned runs,
Eaton pitched a good game for Medicine, ;

The batting order of the two teams

M

follows—

Medicine—Eaton p; Davidson ¢}

| Maxwell 3b; Murphy 1b; Handler 2b; |

Sutherland s. s.; Douglas r.lf.; Miller
c. f.; Fairstein s.s,; Brody 1. f.

~ Commerce—Stanfield c.; R. Thompson p.; G, Thompson 1b; Vooght ob,
Brown s. s.; Zinck 3b; Goodman s. s.;
Stoddard r. f.; McDonald c. f.; Miller

Score by Innings—
Commerce—0-1-4-3-7—15
Medicine—6-6-8-10-x—29
Dave Frank was umpire at the plate

and Ferguson on the bases,

Boxing Tournament Postponed
until next term

It was decided at a meeting held
Friday night to postpone the proposed
Boxing Bout until the third week of
January. The approach of the Xmas
Exams made it impossible for some of
the exponents of the manly art to
deyote any time to training.

The interest shown to date has been
very encouraging, and a continuation
of this enthusiasm augers well for
another banner year in boxing.

Softball Games to
be Played Next
Week

Wednesday, November 26th, 5.30 p. m
—Arts and Science vs. Law.

Saturday, November 29th, 2.00 p. m,
—Medicine vs Kings.

Saturday, November 29th, 2.30 p. m.
—Theology vs. Freshmen,

Saturday, November 29th, 3.15 p. m.
—Arts and Science vs. Dentistry.
Saturday, November, 29th, 4.00 p. m.

—Commerce vs. Kings.

STUDENTS SUPPLIES

MacLeod-Baleom, Ltd

CHEMISTS

OPPOSITE

mpete with any other club. |
eperiaiey Wilk be orraneed

Frank Duxbury Business Manager

The staff of the Year Book for this
year feel that in order to turn out a
beok which will be representative of
the students and which will be satisfactory to the students when printed,
it is necessary that every member of
the University give some thought to its
production,

We ask for your suggestions and we
will try to give them every consideration. It is your book and its ultimate
success depends entirely on you,
Practically everyone has at least one
suggestion in regard to one or other

of the different branches of the work.

If there is something you have seen in
other year books, and think it might
help this year’s book at Dal. tell someone on the staff about it, If you have
any ideas as to how this year’s book
can be made a bit better than those of
previous years, let us know about it,
whether it be in the layout of the book,
the arrangement of sections or perhaps
in some little thing you might have
noted—after all it is the little things
which really change the book from
mediocrity to prominence.

If you are at all artistically inclined,
get in touch with the Art Editor as
variation in art work is essential and
leads to a far better appearance than if
the work were all of the same type.

If you can write or think you can
write, we need you—get in touch with
someone on the staff and tell them what
phase of the work you would like to
write about,

If you are poetically inclined, submit some of your articles—or if you
don’t know what to write about, have
a talk with someone on the staff and
you will no doubt arrive at some idea
which, when put into poetical form,
will have the exact requirements to
set off some section.

There are innumerable ways in which
everyone can help, and it is your
privilege and your duty to do so, just
as much as you are privileged and urged
to contribute to the Gazelte, just as

much as you are privileged to see a}

foot-ball game or a Glee Club show,
You are backing the book financially
and it is up to you to make sure that
your investment is a successful one.

It is, of course, necessary to have a
staff for the purpose of organization,
but in this capacity they are merely
your representatives, and in fairness
to yourselves, to the staff, and the book
itself, you should see to it that the
entire production is not left in the hands
of these few.

Mr. Magonet made a _ suggestion
through the columns of last week’s
Ga*elte which we appreciated very
much, and which although written in
lighter vein, brought out some of the
fundamental principles of organization
in sales work combined with original
ideas which were very interesting, and
it was the discussion of this article that

GARRICK

WED, and THURS.

RAMON NAVARRO}
‘Call of the Flesh”

FRI. and SAT.

“The Sea Bat’

WITH
CHARLES BICKFORD

Next MON. and TUES.

“Good News”

{¢

| eet | |
eS dao EQUIPMENT
'

' : ; For Good Athletes

Those who demand the
' best in Sporting Equip.
; ment unanimously agree
} that oe cannot be
,surpassed.

|
/
:
| |

GAZETTE

On the Cinders |We

Girls’ Track was a great thing to
watch, this Fall; for much interest was
shown, and new material was unearthed,
There were two meets at the College
in which the girls took part—the
Freshmen Meet, and the Interfaculty.
The star of the sprints for the Freshman girls was Irene Matheson, and she
showed up well in the Interfaculty
meet too, Ruth Crandall was the new
high jumper brought to light. In the
Interfaculty Meet, Helen Williams and
Jean Gardner were again victorious in
sprints and the throws, respectfvely
All in all, the season went off very well,
and: Dalhousie may some day be called
the gathering ground for the women
athletes of the Maritimes.

i
2.

Letter to the
Editor

Halifax, N.S.,
Nov, 21st, 19380.
The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir:—

There seems to have been a decided
lack of interest in ice hockey at
Dalhousie for a long time. The students apparently do not realize that
ice hockey is a major sport at this
university, This year it was decided
to enter a team in the City Intercollegiate League. We have prospects
fora winning team this year, and the
backing of the students is needed to
make it one. Let every student who
is able turn out to the League games
and let the team know you are there!
This is the only way for Dalhousie to
produce a really good team, Every
student who plays hockey should
turn out to the practises and make
every effort to gain a place on the
team,

Sincerely,

R. W. MACLELLAN.

led us to the plan of selling which we
intend to put into effect this year.

As a last request’ we urge you not to
procrastinate nor leave it to the other
fellow; if you have talent, ideas or
suggestions, they will do a lot more
(good bound up within the covers of
the book than lett outside to bear
testimony at a possible post mortem
following its publication,

The Staff.

Managing Editor; Frank A. McIntyre

Critique Editor: Lillian Sadler.

Art Editor: Tom Goudge.

Copy Editor: Jimmie Gray.

Remainder of staff to be published
later,

CASINO

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
NOV. 24-25-26

“SCARLET PAGES”

First appearance in Talking
Pictures of

Eisie Ferguson

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
NOV. 27-28-29

BEBE DA NIELS

3 o 9
“Dixiana”’
with
ROBERT WOLSEY

BERT WHEELER

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

A Change Is Good
For Everybody

Why not a meal or
lunch at the .,
GREEN LANTERN

occasionally ?

The Green Lantern

An Ideal Gift the Year Round--$2.00 per year

A Christmas Gift

That Keeps on Giving

Mail your subscription to

..o LHE...
HALIFAX SUNDAY
GRAPHIC

HALIEAX

fm

3 ‘ A eee Es
Pies * ia. ci see td
ey ha bees hem
8 Oe | ra a fal
Bey Sabi PAVERS SAN 25
ss i cat att 
BE opp

i‘ 7
“, a, a : ‘ x Tre @ a
i he iat afi ; Pe
Pie ae ee ag ey
ne pea yes Nae y, +f ae ”
Se ae

aie . 7 bic I a a
GA! SN Bisa be oF:
Fe Tat Ea oad

Have Not
Changed Yet

An expert from the Dalhousie Gazette
for Jan, 4th, 1922 entitled ‘‘A History
quiz we might pass’’ shows how little
the students can change in 8 years.
When was the war of 1812?
From what province of France

aes a

November 19th; 1980:

was Joan of Arc?

Who is the author of Macaulay's
History of England?

What two.countries participated
in the Spanish-American war?
In what season of the year did
Washington spend his winter at
Valley Forge?

Tell about the Swiss Navy.
' Exchange.

Its An Old College

Custom

Thats What It Is.

Hats will come and Hats do go.
In small Univer4ity Cireles the
small snap brim, hike Brook, seems
to go on forever.

Perhaps jauntiness is the secret of

popularity, or it might be price.
$4.00 and $6.50

Now IE STYLE

$3.00 $3.50

Colwell Brothers

Limited
453-457 Barrington Street

SPATS ARE

$2.50

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

IDEAL FACILITIES FOR

Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

A Showing of New Winter

Overcoats for Men

Eatonia

$25.00

Aiea
$35.00

These new arrivals are shown in the seasons newest styles and are

made of long wear|ng, warm materials.
terns in browns, also the popular blue.
men and young men,

A variety of dress patGuard and ulster models

Sizes 35 to44. Each Coat outstanding

value at its individual price.

Eatons—Main Floor.

bee se bites 5
ey ee
- a a U4 ty i 17 t

Br cern

 
