 

i
f

i
~

jee Pe te oo
6 ee fe ca tee

— _ —
hts a

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

 

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 5dru, 1930.

No. 5

 

 

_ Tigers Defeat Acadia In
a Best Game Of Season,

%

hae

Ec

.*

f

f

ay.
AB

Te

SP -,

ie
~~

a e's,
Fal =,

_» —Drover, Sutherland
and McRae score.

 

Drover

conveyed. approximately
four hundred ardent
-Dalhousians to’ Wolfville
on Saturday to witness
yet another win by the
Dalhousie Tigers over
their rugbyrivals — the
Acadians—the final score.
< Wa reading 9-3 infavour of
3 ~ the Halifax Cellegians.
‘The opposing university group gaily
 bedecked in their college colors and
with accompanying cheer leaders combined with a field surrounded by cars
and pedestrian football followers to

_ make the setting one which truly
typifies intercollegiate athletic mcets.
Long before the gridiron warriors
~~ emerged from the dressing rooms the
. opposing squads battied tor howiing
-. henors, The Acadians led by Porter

    

 

- Wolfville’s Gordon Graham—and the
Gold and Black fellowers by ‘Big
Jim” RAH-RAHED loud and long,
each side trying it seemed—to at least

 

win the mythical “shouting” shield.
= ‘ ; DAL. SCORES FIRST TRY.

  
    
     
  

tee. £7, :
ey FE Referee Ray Smith of ee peo
called the game shortly after three an
ne tian tance ices with Woolner kicking
into the wind. (Did you ever hear of a
game beginning otherwise?) Acadia
med the kick and found touch

  
 

igers and exactly five minutes
~ opening i tatls sounde
Fee Sutherland quiauanten a°nice
. on the part of the three quarter
with a try. Davidson fa ed to

e additional two points giving

usie a three point lead.
sta LEAD INCREASED.
{ek rh a” Acadia then kicked off, following

ee _ which play zigzagged up and down the
_ field, ~Dathousie’s few running gains

 
  
 
  
   

   

being counteracted by long kicks into
fa, My ouch by Cain of Acadia. The Wolf
a __-yillites seemed to press the Dalhou
gians at this stage and a try was narrow___ Jy averted when Connors forced Ryan
a. out on the Dal'ten yard line, stopping
what appeared to be a sure try, the

threat of the Baptists was shortlived,
eh, however, and Dalhousie soon doubled
the count when McRae placed the ball
between the posts following a scrum
on the Wolfville ten yard line. The
try was not converted. Following
the kick off the Tigers again pressed
the Ryanites and garnered their last
three points in the dying moments of
the initial period when Drover again
crossed the line following a nice broken
_ field run. The whistle sent the Dal
players to the dressing room with a
x nine point lead which however was not
__ to be increased in the second half.
a te
___ ACADIANS PRESS TIGERS.

The second period presented a
"picture painted in colors which con_ trasted sharply with those used to
__ make the sketch of the opening ftame.
he Acadians were out for a win and
defensive tactics featured the Dalhousie play. The play for the most
part during this half was around the
| Dalhousie twenty yard line and the
' yalley boys were a constant threat for
_. about ten minutes when tension was
_ felieved by numerous gains by the Tig_~ ets resulting in a center field scrum.
With about ten minutes to go Dal_  housie looked good for another three
Points but a safety brought the play
_ back to Tigerland and the Acadians
ere awarded a free kick which Cain
rned into Acadia’s share of the 9-3

    
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
   
    
   
   
     
    
   
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
     
     

-_

a) ay ee «
pak ‘
- DAL’S STONEWALL DEFENCE,
A
The effort on the part of Acadia to
‘even the count in this period shouldn’t
underestimated. They worked like
nons for the full thirty
utes and only for th:
eptionally good tack- by block quarte:
well and the threc

er line the finai
satisfactory. For a

stically new squad the
\dia fifteen show splend to be strong

ders foleague hon
ee aa:
ywing the game a large number
 rooters and team members
co

I

   

Sutherland

Re maul a eee
Ceuprihes 08 paze'4),
ab oe 5

ai
bey gt

“a ‘ +
DEAE
ead Me a aoa
eed, oy bi) Lad
eo Pia. as f
tae ie

rs
7

;
+e
. wh

‘al

i ara 1 « j
<i
4 ; “i hI os a f a
: ae

’ bo
nee ie,
a ee

a. - Good Refereeing a feature*

Nearly one hundred cars |

  
  

e sever imting in small gains]

 

Holding Dalhousie to Three Trys

 

'

 

   
   
   

Directs Armistice
Service

 

RE = mene

DR. MACMECHAN.

Cubs Win Section
_ Without a Loss

To Play Off with King’s
for Title. —

Dal’s intermediate team _ clinched
the title of their section of the league
when they defeated the lighter squad
of Acadians 3-0. Although only one
try was scored and that by Phil
Magonet, star forward, the Cubs had
it over their opponents by a -wide
margin. The scrum. controlled the
ball in 90 per cent of the scrimmages
but due to the over anxiousness of the
back field many fumbles resulted.
Dal was on the Acadia line and pressing

hard for the last ten minutes of the
first period but could not get across. It

- Neuke

 

was a very welcome relief for the Acadia
team to hear the gun.

The Cubs started an_ irrestible
offensive at the start of the second
period and Phil went on a nice run
when he picked up a loose ball, eluding
several players to score the only try
Acadia tried hard to even the count
but due to the hard tackling of the
Cubs they were unable to get across
the line. Stoddard got away some
fine punts as did Tommy Goudge, who
started one run that almost resulted
in a try.

Forwards—Grant, McLeod, Wallace.
L. McDonald, Miller, A. Baird, Magonet; Halves—B. Eaton, Scott, Stoddard; Three Quarters—I. Fraser, ge

ull

ie, G. Thompson, Nickerson;

back—T. Goudge.
rr

Nate Seigal and Chester Lea, both
of whom were graduated from the
Engineering Department, have enrolled at McGill where they will in
due time receive the degree of Engineering.

 

Commerce Frat

Holds Party

Zeta Kappa Phi Fraternity held a
delightful dance on Wednesday evening
at the Saraguay on North West Arm,
when about thirty members of the
fraternity and their guests were present.
The chaperones were Prof. and Mrs.
W. R. Maxwell, Prof. and Mrs. J. M.
McDonald and Mrs. C. W. Rowlings,
The committee who made all the
necessary arrangements and who are
responsible for the success of the dance
consisted of Charlie Stanfield and
Laurie Hart. Among the guests were
the Msses Margaret Dobson, Mary
McCoubrey, Mary Simmons, Molly
Grant, Venice Smith, Frances Hart,
Madeline Markeley, Connie Nichols,
Isabel Chipman, Jenne Boutilier, Dot
Rosier, Merle Clancey, Connie Soulis,
Nita Goldng, Polly Burris, Helena
B shop, Helen Williams, Florre Connors, Florence Thurlow, Phyllis Skeen,
Kitty McIntosh and Dot Ells.

——_++
NOTICE.

Delta Gamma Banquet to be held
in Green Lantern, Thursday, Nov, 18th
Private dining room.

posal of this sum.

Funds for Mem-|Men That March| First Glee Club Show Draws
Largest Crowd In Years

orial Explained

October 28th, 1930.

 

pe Vastly Improved Team Succeeded in To Gazette Readers.

With reference to the Memorial
that it is proposed to erect to the
memory of the athletes of Dalhousie
who served in the Great War, I fecl that
a word of explanation is due to Dalhousains, both graduates and undergraduates, as to the source of the funds
being used for this purpose. During
the spring term of 1923, while I was
president of the Student’s Council, |
was given a sum of money—about one
hundred dollars—with which to purchase small mementos, (athletic D’s)
after the fashion of literary and debating awards, for certain of the
gratuating athletes of that year, who
were sufficiently outstanding to merit
such an award. The proposal was
that the Executive of the D. A. A. C.
should decide who these were, and the
Students’ Council should provide additional funds for the purchase of a die
from which the awards would be struck
and which would become the property
of the University. Acting on this
proposal, during the summer of 1923,
I procured from Birk’s and others, a
number of very interesting designs,
which I submitted to the proper executives for their approval’ I did not
return to Dalhousie in the autumn
of 1923, and the money in question
was deposited in the Bank of Nova
Scotia and has lain there ever since.
1 was unable to carry out the terms
of the proposal because the Student's
Council failed to provide the additional
monies required for the purchase of a
die, (the amount I held was _ barely
sufficient to cover the awards themselves), and the D. A. A. C. neglected to
nominate those of the graduating athletes of 1923 whom they thought
eligible for the award, nor did they
suggest a method of making such
nominations.

-I wrote a number of letters, from
time to time, trying to get the whole
matter settled, and on my return from
Europe in 1926, I even went so far
as to write some ten of the graduat ng
athletes of 1923, whom I myself thought
were entitled to the award asking them
for their opinion as to the proper disI received one reply.
As I could not see any possibility of
carrying out the original terms of the
proposal and as I did not want the
money to remain in the bank in perpetuity, I decided that the most suitable arrangement and the one which
would meet with the approval of all
the parties interested, was to have this
tablet erected. I did this, not because
I consider this an adequate memorfal
to our athletes, but in the hope that
some day, ere long, a student’s building
may be nuilt at Studley that will
contain this and other memorials and
be itself and indication to the world
outside, of the place that Dalhousians
who served in the Great War held and
hold in the memories of their friends
lam,

Yours very sincerely,

NORMAN MacKENZIE.

| 4 > °° ieee

Away

To their old teacher they are not
just names on a bronze tablet or
quiet dust beneath white crosses in
France’ or Flanders. They are boys
he saw grow up in the city, or boys
who came from the country into the
First Year without any previous
knowledge of them on his part. They
confronted him, a sea of faces in the
classroom; they wrote examinations,
they played games, they enjoyed their
life at college with no shadow of
apprehension for the future. That
was all sunshine. Then the war called,
and they marched away.

In the University Club, Montreal,
one such boy, a graduate who had
raised the standard for general proficiency,argued with his old preceptor
about Canada. It was in the room
decorated with the arms of all the
colleges of the Dominion. Near at
hand was the black and red eagle of
Dalhousie. The preceptor advanced
the wild thesis that Canada had done
nothing in the spiritual realm. If
Canada disappeared from the map tomorrow, the world would would lose no
moral, political, educational idea. So
they argued about it and about, amiably
but obstinately. It was in the month
of June. The flood-gates burst. on the
fourth of August. The Dalhousie
boy joined a Montreal regiment at
once. From Salisbury Plain, he wrote
“You must admit that Canada has
done something now.’”’ He was killed
in April, 1915, when the Canadians
held the line at Ypres. He was the
first Dalhousian to fall for the Good
Cause. In his will, he left Dalhousie
five thousand dollars.

His cousin was known in the family
by the sobriquet ‘‘Little,” to distinguish thim from his father. He was
a well-favored, bright-haired, wellgrown boy, ‘‘Whom all eyes followed
with one consent.’ He joined the
same battalion, and was on the way to
become a noted officer. He long endured the Seven Hells of the Trenches
and was at last invalided home. A
trip through the lovely islands of the
Carribean Sea gave him back _ his
health. He came in uniform to see his
old teacher, drank his cup of tea and
smoked his cigarette. At the door, he
saluted with a smile on his handsome
face, and he too marched away.

Every effort was made to keep him
safe at home. His military superior
almost ordered him to remain. But
his men in France wanted him, he
could not abandon them. So the boy
captain went his way. A few weeks
later, another Dalhousian saw him
running down a trench with a detail
of his company behind him to a battered section. There came a burst of
shell-fire and destroyed them all. In
one Halifax church there are monuments to six of that name.

It was the Friday afternoon that the
“‘Lusitania’’ was torpedoed off Ireland
and fifteen hundred people drowned.
There were a hundred gasping frightened children in the icy water. A Dalhousian stood beside his old teacher
in Granville Street and read the in
 

Continued on page 4.

 

University Heads Write In Support
Of Armistice Service

 

Urge Students to Honour Memory of Dalhousie’s
War Dead—Who helped to make peace possible

 

It is difficult for us of an older
generation to realfze that the present
student body is largely made up of
those who were only school children
when the Great War raged twelve to
sixteen years ago. The coming of
Armistice Day to us brings back the
memory of these hright young lives
who were happy and care-free students
as are you today, and who hesitated
not when the call came. It is because
they helped to make it possible for us
to live in peace and have a college
today that you will join in grateful
tribute to their giorious memory.

A. STANLEY MacKENZIE,
President.
Dalhousie University,
November 8, 1930.

 

Bennett Shield
Debate

The Interclass debating competition
will get under way next Tuesday, the
11th, in the Munro Room with a
forensic encounter between sophomores and freshmen. The title is:
“Resolved that charitable relief encourages laziness,”” This is a very live
topic at the present time and no doubt
many of the listeners will have views to
air. Come and see the fun. You will
either find plenty to think about or
pe to laugh about, and probably

oth.

 

1918-1930.

‘‘A wise nation preserves its
records, gathers up its muniments, decorates the tombs of
its illustrious dead, repairs
its great public structures, and
fosters national pride and
love of country, by perpetual
reference to the sacrifice and
glories of the past.”’

The duty of a nation, so eloquently
portrayed by that great Nova Scotian
Joseph Howe in the words set down
above, is no less the duty of a university
and particularly of Dalhousie University.

It is fitting, therefore, that we should
pause for a time, on each recurring
anniversary of Armistice Day, to
render a tribute of respect to the memory of these Dalhousians who, with
others, nobly fought in defence of the
heritage of freedom which is ours and
which it is ourfounden duty to labour
earnestly to deserve and advance.

We do not meet to glorify war; we
meet to decorate ‘‘the tombs of our
illustrious dead’’ and, by grace of their
heroic example, to consecrate ourselves anew to the present pressing
duty of civilization which is to secure
some means to end war for all time.

G. FRED PEARSON,

Chairman, Board of Governors,

 

All Numbers Are

Excellent. Med.

Quartette Being Hit of Evening

 

 

 

Show

 

DR. RONALD HAYES.

Order of Armistice
Day Proceedings

Classes will be dismissed
early on Tuesday

Many Dalhousians do not even know
that a memorial service has ever been
held for our Alumni who fell in the war.
Happily they know nothing at first
hand about the four years of agony
between 1914 and 1918, and the relief,
as of passing from death to life which
the Armistice brought on November
11th, 1918, at eleven o'clock in the
morning. ‘There is no one to tell them;
but they can learn much from attendance at the Gymnasium next Tuesday.

All classes will be dismissed fifteen
or twenty minutes before the hour so
that the students can be in their places,
at five minutes to eleven, when the
doors will be closed. For two minutes
all will stand silent in honor of the dead
as is the custom all over the Empire.
In London, at the stroke of eleven,
every wheel will cease to roll, and every
one in the streets will stand still for
this period. Here notice will be given
of beginning and ending by two guns
fired from the citadel.

One notable feature is the singing
of two hymns, ‘“‘O God, our help in
ages past” and ‘“‘O valiant hearts."
Mr. Harry Dean has kindly consented
to conduct, and he would like as many
singers as possible to volunteer for the
practices, both men and women, in
order that this part of the programme
may be worthy of the occasion.

The President will read passages
from the famous oration of Pericies
over the Athenian dead, and then the
names of our sixty Dalhousians. ‘‘Last
Post”’ will be sounded and the service
will end with the national anthem.

 

Dal. Supreme
Moot Court

Dalhousians! The right of your
newspaper to publish the truth to the
best of its ability has been attacked
by a body of reactionaries who want
to take us all back to the times of
James IJ. Last Thursday, the 30th,
the editor and two reporters were
hailed before the Moot Court and
tongue-lashed for an hour because ot
an alleged libel contained in a Moot
Court report. That there was no libel
is clear to all reasonable men, fo: the
contents of the report were true. Why
then should the Moot Court attempt
to impose its will on the press? Merely
because the Moot Court officials have
an inflated impression of their importance. They think that they can
dictate to the Gazette, which is the
expression of free men and women of
our university. We side with Milton
when we say that it cannot be done.
The Gazette will not be muzzled.
Go ahead tyrants, we defy you.

————_>+e—___

Interfaculty Softball Managers Meet
ing to be held in the Gymnasium,

Dalhousie University, | Thursday morning 12.15.

©

Produces Glee Club |

 

Miller in First Appearance is Particularly

Good.

Last night in the Gymnasium the
Dalhousie Glee Club presented, as
the first play of this term ‘‘The Dear
Departed,” a one act, one scene comedy.
dramma written by Stanley Houghton,
Dr. Ronald Hayes directed the performance. The cast included Doris
Margeson, Helen Williams, Victor
Oland, MacGregor Milier and Jack
Crowell. Before the play itself, Mr.
Gordon Graham entertained the audience in two excellently rendered
vocal solos, He was accompanied on
the piano by Mr. John Budd. © Mr,
Douglas Murray then sang two numbers, accompanying himself on the
banjo, and ended his number by a
banjo solo. Mr. Murray has a very
pleasing voice. All four numbers were
received with much applause and it is
to be hoped that these gentlemen will
in the future appear frequently on the
Glee Club stage.

With these numbers over, the play
Was on. It was satiric in strain.
lhe plot centered round Abel Merryweather (Jack Crowell), a very old man
who was spending his last days in the
home of a married daughter, (Doris
Margeson). When the curtain rose,
the old man lay dead in a side room
and the daughter was striving to hide
her greedy interest in her father’s
effects under a cloak of hypocritical.
daughterly remorse, Finally herjcupidity became predominant and _ she
forced her husband (Victor Oland) into
a design to secure for themselves a
bureau that belonged to her father
and would otherwise have become the
property of all four heirs. Just when
the coveted bureau had been brought
from the dead man's bedroom into the
sitting room, where it would zppear to
be their own, thé remaining heirs
a second daughter of old Abel Merryweather's (Helen Williams) and her

husband (MacGregor Miller) arrived’

to attend the obsequies. Their manifestations of shallow grief were quickly
done with and then began a discussion
about the estate. Some doubt arose
as to whether or not the deceased had
paid his last insurance premium and
the first son-in-law went into the dead
man's room to secure his keys that
they might examine his papers. Under
the fear that the insurance would be
lost. to them, the heirs-apparent now
abused the old man as a worthicss
scamp. The son-in-iaw returned followed soon after by the deceased who had
only been in a tight trance. The
perfidy of his relations had been revealed to him and their protestations
of affection could not repair the damage; he knew about all that had gone
on during his period of supposed death.
However, the discovery did not overwhelm him in the least: When the
idea that his insurance might have
lapsed had been first conceived, ta2
daughters and’ sons-in-law had upbraided the departed for his affection
lor a local pub. Now Abe! announced
his days program—first to pay his
insurance, then to change his will and
thirdly to marry at noon the widow
who kept the pub. He was hob,ing
off to consummate his promjects when
the curtain fell.

The program was concluded by a
male quartet that consisted of Donald
Thompson, Eddie Ross, Fred Jenings
and Dougias Murray, in three well
rendered and enthusiastically received
numbers. Johnny Budd accompanied
on the piano.

Following the program the floor
was cleared for dancing, first to music
furnished by Laurie Hart and Isaac
Cohen and later to the music of Yale
Brody. So ended successfully the
first regular Glee Club performance
of this year.

 

Acadia Sends Regrets

Wolfville, N. S., Oct. 30-30.

President of Students’ Council,
Dalhousie University.

Dear Sir:—

I was very sorry to learn that a
number of our boys attended the
Acadia-Dal game the other day without paying admission. I was glad,
however, to bring this matter before
the Student’s Council, and to see that
our boys paid in full. I am enclosing
the sum of $11.50 for twenty-three
admissions. We would appreciate it
very much if you would make this
matter known to your student body.
I think we have collected from every
student from Acadia who attended
the game without paying.

Very truly yours,
M. S, LEONARD.

 
‘Managing Editor:
A. GORDON COOPER
. $.2148.

Tr. A. GOUDGE
T. D. MACDONALD,
WT. DAUPHINEE,
DORIS MARGESON.
ay . Sports Editor:
F. R. DUXBURY.

_ News Editors:
CHARLES MILLER,
- DOUGLAS GIBBON,
ROBERT KANIGSBERG,
ELIZABETH MURRAY.
EARLE GOLDBERG.
Asst. Business Manager:

ED BY WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. 5.

“CEASE FIRE ”

For two years, Dalhousie has held on Armistice Day, a brief

orial service for those Dalhousians who gave up their lives in
It consisted of the singing of hymns, a reading
and the reading of the names of the fallen
. on both occasions, November
when most studerts were out of the city.
hile the university is in

the Great War.
of Scripture, an address,
by the President.
eleventh fell on a holiday,
_ This year for the first time, it comes w
session, and thus all Dalbousians can be present. They should
| as well as a privilege.

listed in various units to the number of 611,
Probably many more “joined up,”
be traced. Of the six hundred and more,
They were

Unfortunately,

eel it an obligation
- _Dalhousians en

as far as can be ascer
whose names cannot
sixty lost their lives
ally decimated.
‘should be listed as war casualties.
- jnvalided, old before their time; they will carry scars and disabilities to the grave.
_ The purpose of th
-to show at Ww
,or the memory of our own Dalhousians who gave all
uld give for the cause of right and justice. They laid
ir lives, with millions of others, in order that we might
‘t and fre ‘hey gave up everything. Is it too much
the ine to remember them

, or almost one out of every ten. é
Of those who returned many have since died
Many are disabled,

e service is not to glorify war. Itis the very
hat a price our freedom has been purchased.

he Studer year is facing an added
ty in the disbursement of approximately
controlled during 1929-’30. This amount,

Something fe
Argue About

(A column inviting comment and con| troversy).

(A column Inviting Comment and
Controversy).

With our accustomed querulousness
we inquire about that organization
known in common” parlance as the
Dalhousie Glee Club. Why do we not
see any indications of activity? Why
the suspended animation? Already
more than a month of the college year
has sped by, and no real exhibition of
the histrionic art has been presented.
We sincerely hope that those in charge
are not allowing the Glee Club to decline through mere desuetude. Let us
have a little action! And a propos of
this subject, why not have some
really worth-while drama produced for
the edification of the students? We
are sick and tired of the blatantly superficial entertainment provided by ‘‘the
talkies.’ We are weary of the modern
pornographic musical comedy and cf
the crooning of Rudy Vallee or the
infantile squeaks of Helen Kane, two
of Nature’s greatest mistakes. What
a welcome relief a play by Shakespeare,
Ibsen, or Galsworthy would be! What
a pleasant antidote for the mediocre
stuff which is so prevalent! Even one
such presentation a year would be
valuable to us all, and we really believe
that it would gain popularity among
the students. What do you say,
Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society?

Before many moons have waned,
that much-maligned edifice the Dalhousie Gymnasium will be the scene of
certain events which have surpassing
interest for us all. One will see there,
strange pathetic figures, with bowed
heads and aching fingers, writhing in
the throes of intellectual agony under
the gloomy surveillance of beetlebrowed professors. One will note how
these lynx-eyed monsters stand ready
to pounce upon some hapless victim.
Woe to him of the annotated cuff or
itinerant glance, should one of those
Cyclopean eyes chance to catch him
at his illicit practices! Eternal perdition were a mild sentence, compared
with punishments which now await
the culprit. Seriously though, we are
opponents of the theory that there is
virtue in compulsion and we would
sincerely like to see a different system
carried out in the examination room.
The present method of police patrolling,
isno doubt practical and efficient from
a marrow, mundane point of view.

But as a developer of character it is a

farce. It is ridiculous when one comes
_|to consider that this same method is
-|used in the public schools. Surely

_ |university men and women deserve

| something on a higher and more worthy
|scale. Specifically, the system we have
in mind is called ‘‘The Honour System,”
and it is practiced with wonderful
success at more than a score of universities throughout the country. As
the name indicates, this system puts

| DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Canadian College
Comment
OUR STAND.

The time has come when the members of the Board of Governors must
place on record for all time whether
they are men of the world or atrophied
relics of mid-Victorianism.

To-day a committee of the Students’
Administrative Council will appear
before the Governors to make a report
on the undergraduate newspaper. What
the committee will say, or what its
attitude will be, ‘‘The Varsity’’ does
not know. But what ‘‘The Varsity”
does know is that now is the moment
for the final decision on the question
which has been agitating the campus
for several years.

The issue is clear. No matter what
attempts have been made or what contingencies have arisen to becloud it, the
question is one of freedom of expression.
Is the Board of Governors of the University of Toronto willing to lend its
support to a publication in which any
and all members of the undergraduate
body of this University are free to express their varied opinions on matters
of pertinence to them? Or docs the
Board of Governors intend to kill this
publication and permit to rise in its
place a host of independent periodicals,
financed by outside monies, and loyal
to no interests save those of the
Almighty Dollar and the Main Chance?

That there are officials within the
precincts of this University who would
be only too delighted to see “The
Varsity” bound and gagged and cast
into outer darkness, no person who has
followed recent developments on and
about the campus can doubt. These
officials have been irked by pointed references in the undergraduate paper
about the muzzling of our first-class
minds by our third-class bureaucrats;
their prudish souls have been outraged
by the printing of lively and readable
news in the place of dull, official bulletins; they have been unpleasantly
roused from their lethargic slumbers by
“The Varsity’s”’ insistent demands for
constitutional! reform in the $.A.C so as
to make student government a reality
instead of the empty mockery it has
become. And they are out for blood.

It will be up to the Board of Governors to decide whether they value
more highly the insidious machinations
of this handful of salary-drawers or the
almost unanimous opinion of the student body whose welfare the Governors
have always avowed to be their chief
consideration. Although there have
been some quite recent attempts to
place ‘‘The Varsity” in a disadvantageous position, we are firmly convinced
that a systematic investigation during
the next few days will convince the
most arrant sceptic that the undergraduates of this University are willing
to back ‘‘The Varsity” when it comes
to a crisis and that they not only desire
it to continue publication in the years
to come, but that they desire it to
remain a truly undergraduate publication, free from the pressure of the
official thumb.

Letters to the
Editor

To the Editor of the Gazette.
Dear Sir:—

Please give me space in your columns
to take exception to an editorial entitled ‘Specialization in Education”
that appeared in last week’s Gazette.
In that article the writer says ‘This
tendency to specialization in colleges
is regrettable” and he goes on to deplore that History and Latin and the
other so-called cultural classes are
being neglected for more practical and
modern studies. In the first place he
has failed to show that such is the case.

One need only compare the enrolment
at this University today with that of
twenty years ago to discover that the
college population has increased in
greater proportion than the general
population. Dalhousie is in this respect representative of the majority of
North American universities. Many
young men who, two decades past
would have gone directly into business,
and even into a specialized field like
Law, to assimilate their knowledge
from the practical world, have decided
that a specialized college training is a
very great benefit. The day when an
aspirant to the medical profession
could achieve his aim without spending
very much time at a university lies
within medical memory. Industries
that not many years ago required only
such knowledge as could be obtained
from a comparatively brief working
experience today demand a high degree
of technical and scientific education.
This increasing demand for expert
labour has swelled the ranks of college
students and has undoubtedly increased the proportion of students in
technical and scientific classes, but
there is no valid inference from these
facts that the classes are being neglected relatively to the past. Both absolutely and in proportion to general
population, the numbers of candidates
for Arts degrees has steadily increased.

In the second place the writer states
that ‘‘Reasons for the increase of the
tendency noted are not hard to find”
and as one reason he offers the fact that
business courses are heavily endowed.
What if they are? That does not discourage other studies. The tuition
fee is no less for one class than for
another. Scholarships and Fellowships
are more numerous and more generous
it is true, in the scientific courses, but
there can be no question of financial
competition as between professional
and scientific education on the one
hand and cultural education on the
other because it is never contended
that the latter is an aid to amassing
wealth. Cause cannot be found there.
Dalhousie has never dropped a class in
History or in Latin because funds were
lacking to maintain it. From the
nature of such classes no elaborate
apparatus is necessary; nor does the
excellence of the instructor depend
upon financial remuneration; for college professors do not choose their
fields of study for money reasons.

And in the third place, Mr. Editor,
colleges in respect to their policies must
conform with public demand, and

—— —_

November 5th, 1930.

Through the
Looking Glass

We hate to call to the attention of
the Gazette readers the fact that the
Chronicle reporter did such a poor job
reporting the Wanderers-Dal game
of last Tuesday but there were so many
mistakes that they cannot be allowed
to go unnoticed. Seriously speaking |
doubt if the writer attended the game.
If he did he certainly did not watch it.
The kicks that he refersto as beingjvery
easy were merely forty yards. Nothing at all, eh—and then his report of
the Intermediate game—he describes*
some of the plays as being good and
others not so good. Very definite,
don't you think so? I think that a
daily paper with the circulation of the
Chronicle would be ashamed to put
such write ups on its sport page. But
then after all this fault is not an uncommon matter. Time after time one
reads stories of games and wonders if
really that could be an account of the
game he saw.

A Professor told one of the Freshettes
the other day that she did not cling
to her subject enough. At last it has
been revealed who wrote that letter
about ‘‘Necking on the Campus” but
who would have suspected that a professor would be an authority on a subject
like that.

In former years the Freshmen always
had a lot of competition from the
Upper Classmen for the affections of the
Freshettes but this year the competition has been opened to one of our
new professors it seems. Dr. Todd is
very put out that his position with the
girls is being challenged we understand
and dame rumour has it that even
Stirling is going to start to journey to
the Hall. The new man should understand that we cannot possibly make-an
exception in his case or the first thing
we know all the professors will be going
down there.

Ever since our return to the University we have been waiting for the college
authorities to do something about the
main entrance to the grounds but it has
just dawned on us that they have been
waiting for us to speak about the matter
in thiscolumn. It is most unfortunate
that we could not have a cement sidewalk running from this’ entrance.
However if at the present time this is
impossible and the road must be closed
for the safety of predestrians, then at
least we should remove that old board
with the printing on it ‘This road
closed to vehicles.”” The chain stretched across the entrance is enough. We
must take it for granted that reasonable people might want to use the
entrance and that when they saw the
chain they would know the road was
closed. At least there is no need to

exhibit the bottom of an old. packing...

box tied up by means of old hay-wire
at the main entrance to a college.

_ Again many of the professors, whose
ideas about giving lectures are sometimes as old as the lifeof the institu
though it might be postulated that
there is a regrettable modern trend
away from the so-called cultural
studies, the part played therein by the
universities is merely a reaction. But
even that postuate would not deserve
to go unchallenged; culture is essentially self developement, and he who
denies to the engineer or the chemist
either pride or art in his work lays
himself open to a charge of blind
prejudice. Thomas H. Edison has
said ‘‘To my mind the old Masters are
not art; their value lies in their
scarcity,’’ and probably that able old
gentleman would draw within the
application of his statement many of
our classical and cultural studies.
Thanking you for this space, I remain, R. G.

ny | to the figure $5617.50 shown by the auditor’s report to have
‘beer contributed formerly under the seven dollar fee, should be
equitably distributed among the various student activities requiring
financial assistance and its expenditure carefully checked in orde1
‘to avoid any charge of extravagance or laxity in other ways in the
____ disposal of student fees. It should be pointed out in this connection
g a" that altho’ responsibility for student finance rests primarily with
the ~Council, nevertheless the treasurers of the several societies
_ assisted financially should administer funds entrusted to their
care so as to be able at any time to submit to the Council a detailed
 *statement of all expenditures made by them, with covering vouchers.
--_———*‘In the past, in some cases, wholesale extravagance has been the
tule in dealing with Council money. No detailed report has been
-__- sequired of amounts spent by societies, hence the executives of
those bodies have felt under no compulsion whatever to exercise a
reasonable amount of economy and care in the disbursement of
funds. Some attempt is now being made by the Council to require
quarterly statements of expenditures, but even these statements

may contain large amounts charged to “incidentals” with no
covering vouchers. In this year’s budgeting, published in the last
issue of the Gazette, there are sums granted to activities as high in

. amount as $1100.00. It is difficult to imagine any business firm
passing over such an amount to a subordinate organization and
-__- requiring no detailed account as to what the money was used for
and exactly how it was spent. Of course there are tentative items

of expenditure outlined in budgets submitted to the Council, but
--—~—s« these are at best very uncertain guides as to what direction dis-_— posal of the grant will take place. We are not hinting that dis| —s*ihonesty is prevalent among those who have charge of Council
igs he grants, but we do point out that the oppoitunity for dishonesty
| ig present, which should not be the case in a good accounting
"--—s« system. Here, under present conditions, is afforded the spectacle
'—s of'a treasurer submitting a budget to the Council varying in anoumt
from $50.00 (the lowest grant of this year) to over $1100.00, and
_- after having that budget approved, going blithely about the dis| . Taal pe of the amount as he himself wills. As mentioned before, the

We who are young and enthusiastic,
may make occasional faux pas. But
it is possible that the Board of Governors is less willing to overlook the faux
pas of the young and enthusiastic than
the discreet mildew of the aged and
lugubrious?

One of the prime considerations before the Governors will be, so we are
going to be told, the reputation of the
University of Toronto. If we may be
permitted an opinion on so delicate a
point, we would suggest that it might
be a more unfortunate thing for the
good name of the University of Toronto
if the Board of Governors of that
University took deliberate steps to
force an end to the publication of the
only organ of honest opinion representing the student body as a whole. It
may be quite possible that the Board
of Governors would find the game not
worth the candle if their own action
reduced them to the ambiguous position
of having no legitimate defense for the
suspicions of those on the outside who
will say that the only reason for such
‘anaction is the fear of the truth.—
Varsity.

the student in the examination room
(and everywhere else as well) solely
and entirely on his own honour. At
the conclusion of the college year, he
signs an affadavit that he has done his
work in an honest manner, and has
received no unlawful aid. In the examination room there are no policemen-professors. The candidates are
free to do what they will, but they are
placed on their honour. If they cheat,
their own conscience knows that its
honour is tarnished and worthless. If
they do their work honestly, their
character has been tested and has rung
true. Which do you think is the better
system?

tion, are taking the joy out of life
by their ‘Please write.”’ And then
the old tongue wags furiously for the
next thirty minutes and pens race
madly over the pages propelled by
the hand of the student whose mind is
wandering, thinking of more pleasant
things. He does not concentrate on
what he is scribbling. The only thing
he is getting out of this mad dash is a
ruined handwriting. But thank goodness some of the younger professors are
giving us the benefit of their experience.
They are having mimeographed copies
made which the students may buy. No
longer need the pen fly and one may
look forward to a lecture. Why can’t
allthe professors follow this noble example?

Did you ever consider what a really
invisible world we inhabit? For
instance, thought is invisible. Consciousness is invisible and intangible.
Growth is invisible. So is decay. So,
in essence, is the life-force. Time,
space, music, the perfume of the rose,
wishes, ideas, sensations,—all these
belong to the kingdom of the invisible.
The earth rotates on an imaginary
axis, and the universe turns on an invisible atom. Man has advanced far
in his repeated attempts to probe the
mysteries within the microcosm of the
invisible, but the further he proceeds,
the more enigmas he encounters. The
omnipresent interrogation-mark is continually suspended above his head, like
the sword of Damocles. Like a blind
man in some grotesque and unfamiliar
grotto, he gropes his way wearily about
doing his best to avoid the gaping
chasms which beset his path. Alas!
if he could but see whither he is going.
But it is that gossamer thread, that
filmy cord of mystery, which lures him
on. Like some seductive mistress
flitting before his unseeing eyes, the
invisible fascinates him, draws him
forward with subtle charms, ever hoping that some day he can capture the
coy yet comely maiden. And so man’s
pursuit of the invisible goes on, while
he himself dwells in an invisible world,
There is in all probability, a veritable
visible universe: but we are not living
in it——yet,

--for those chilly days
on the campus---
AN EDUCATED MAN. :

swanky coats in styles
and patterns that leave
nothing to be desired - 
He has acquired a set of values. He
has a ‘yes’ or ‘no’, and they are all his
own. He knows why he behaves as he
does. He has learned what to prefer,
for he has lived in the presence of things
that are preferable....He has learned
enough about human life on this planet
to see his behaviour in the life of a body
of experience and the relation of his
actions to situations as a whole... .He
is being transformed from an automaton into a thinking being.

And during the course of acquiring a
degree from the university, it might
be well to bear that definition of an
education in mind.— Purdue Exponent.

i % .

~-3 camel’s hair and
----llamovel
overcoats--in exceptional quality

at an extremely reasonable price - --- 
Council is attempting to instal a system requiring reports, but

i even if this plan is put into effect no student treasurer ot the Council

7 i. ;

'__ is going to take it upon himself to denounce an d expose those who
do not detail all their accounts. This situation requires a perThe Secretary-Treasurer lives a most harassed

ty
%
es
bs A - Pa “ ° *
manent official. : : ae
____ existence and has not the necessary time to devote to his position
2 ss so that he can adequately check the expenditure of all money which
___ passes through his hands. Particularly at this time when increased
sums of money are under the control of the Council, should the
members of that body hasten to appoint a permanent Secretaryas reasurer. S Rong , » * * .
Specific suggestion for improvement of the situation outlined
has been incorporated in the audit of last year’s books by the

: be auditor, Mr. H. C. Morton, B. Com. He says, “however, there
Br is still a noticeable lack of a systematic record of expenditures

w
a
'

«

—_—$_4---e—__—.

Dr. Ross Harrington, who graduated
in Dentistry in 1930, practised at
Barrington Passage during the summer
months, and to judge by all reports,
has been very successful. He is planning to leave for Trinidad at the end of
October, where he will spend the winter
months,

—_—_s--o
Cae

students get a discount of ten per cent.

Shanes Mens Wear
Shop

30 Spring Garden Road, Halifax

_ Dr. Carl Smith, Class 30, has opened
up a practise in Berwick. His friends
“kept by the executives of the various organizations receiving aid} Ws) him every sticcess.
from the Council.” He further states that this situation should
be remedied and some standard accounting system set up ‘which
Id do away with the present haphazard method ot handling
tudent’s tunds.” "We. e further that in charge of this
be a permanent Secretary-Treasurer of the Council,

a eres

for his work, would have more time to devote to Council affairs
| pon tee | a official. Also, any student who takes on
ermanent Secretary- : . hi executive dutiesin anysociety should be prepar inth the functions of that body. Advantages] ister economically and with accurate eta, ny sed oh ttaacd
would ‘be ‘numerous. Continuity of to bis care. And finally the Council should require from such
| s of the Council would in itselt officials detatled statements of all their expenditures for certain

s official adequately compensated | periods before making grants for future use.

i

sone ES

 
     
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  

a bia Pica

a a ee ee

of , a .
.

Oa te Ae
Bae

. 4 : wie 2h wee eS | . . a
el ie, Daal Foot ai) ee
hette| feats Medicine|
Tue | Commerce triumphed over Medic_ ‘tine by a score of 5-3 in a gruelling
Ma, I’ve been|contest of the Interfaculty Rugby
League on Wednesday at noon, and
went into the lead in their section of
the league. Medicine got their score
in the opening period, while Commerce
tallied in the second half.
In the opening minutes of the first
period Medicine had the better of the
play and were threatening the Commerce line before many minutes had
passed. Before any danger had been
done, Commerce settled down and
drove them steadily back. About the
middle of the session, Medicine rallied
again, came well down into Commerce
territory and would not be repulsed,
until Graham crossed the line and
game them what proved to be their
only score. For the rest of the period
Commerce had the better of the argument with their scrum controlling the
ball and only the strong defence of the
Meds prevented a score.

In the second half Commerce had
the better of the territory play throughout, but could not develop the scoring

unch. Play was near the Meds line
or the greater part of the period.
About the middle of the period, Commerce got their try when the Med
fullback fumbled a long punt and with
the Commerce forwards following the
play they secured the ball and managed
to pass it out to the three quarter line
where Borden Stoddard went over for
the score. Ells converted for the
extra two points. For the rest of the
period both teams worked hard but
there was no further scoring.

Cal Stewart refereed.

Line-up:

Commerce—Fullback, J. McIntosh,
Three quarters, McDonald, Ells, Stoddard; Halves, Miller, McDonald; Forwards, Hatfield, O’Brien, Goodman,

 

 
   
   
    
 
 
  
   
   
 
     
        
  
 
  

  

i. Y
bs a ‘ fs
Moms:— | |

“First thing of all,

      
 
 
   

disappointed in love! One fellow, oh,
he was so nice, told me he had a crush
son _me, that I was the fist girl he had
___ ever cared tor, and I was so happy that
Rares. © moment 1 forgot about Isaac.
Then the next day, a girl coming away
ftom the phone, said to me, “If he
- would only leave me alone. He is
such a bother, I hate to break his
_ heart because he has such a crush on
Bi  ) Mey at least he says he has.’ Then
Bik she told me his name. And Ma, it was
__. the seli same feliow that said he has a
heel crush on me. 1 am off men for life,
- nO net quite—but ror a week at least.
of There was a “pep” iaily here the
other night. Gee, Ma, | ate very littic
___- supper so | would have lots of room to1
the pep, and they didn’t even pass a
' glass of water around. Why in the
world do they deceive people in such
a base manne? Instead a man stood
‘up on the platform, and made us yell
_ and screech, and screech and yell all
over again, 1 was so weak when | was
througn that I scarce could. speak.
And here is another “down.” Aiter_- _~ward’s we danced. Cousin Ike danced
___ with me three times and then I sat out
+ a dance; then he danced two more with
me, and then | sat out another one, and
so on. But Ma, 1 noticed some boys
lap others somethin’ terribie hara
on the back, and grab their girls, an
dance off with them, Wasn’t that a

breach of etiquetter I guess the boys
B __were too shy to do that with me, seeing
ee as they didn’t know me very well, or

 
 

   
  

  

     
 

   
     
  

 
 

  
    
  
       
  
 

 

  

   

 

 
     

a

       
           
        
      
     
          
     
         
        
     
     
      
     
     
        
      
     
     
      
         
    
        
      
   
    
      
 

   

*

a ly

   

  
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
   
    
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  

  
 
 

 
 

  

     
 

¥

  

aa;
2 a
perhaps they realized my extreme
Bo ait disapproval of anything so contrary
‘to the rules of etiquette. I wonder,
Ma, if 1 show my politeness too much!
_ Saturday | broke my resolution,
and went to another one of those

  

  

i oH “football” games, and that is another] Hart, Stanfield, Thompson, Zinck.

one of my “downs’’. ‘the downpour] Medicine—Fullback, Gibbon; Three
of rain was something terrible, andj|,quarters, Fairstein, Gaum, Murray,
- ~my spirits were dampened, not to| Medjuck; Halves, Brody, Stewart,

Eagles; Forwards, McCurdy, Woods,
Wright, Docherty, Dunsworth, Outhouse, Piercey.

mention my clothes, considerably, and
BB) then, it lightened. Honestly | was
~~ some frightened and yet those crazy
>. Mi boys kept running around like chickens.
i t 4 got up to leave, but believe it or not,
Br some people put up their umbrellas
ae and sat there, shivering and soaking
ss wet, yet were cheering and pretending
if This hypocrisy

io
‘> Ft
me

  

  
 

 

 
 

Medicine Defeat

to enjoy themselves.
a on the eo iar is Sas )
' than | can bear. | bet that rain brot E °
up a lot of worms in our garden. ngitneers
__wish | was home to collect them at Pee at
Ie. for every 4, tor darling Isaac, Here| Medicine defeated Engineers by a
two boys got up and spoke and every | score of 3 to 0 on Tuesday at noon and
__ one cheered and clapped. One carried} as a result are now tied with Commerce
_acane, I listened, but their speeches) for first place in their section of the
_ weren't so “hot,” 1 can’t see why|[eague. Commerce have played one
yone got so enthusiastic. ‘Hot’ | ame less than Medicine and so are in
meaty et here by all the people somewhat of a better position. )
A hat is what, so Lam adang _ Medicine were superior through the
S.J whole of the game, only the brave de; » | fence of the Engineers keeping the Meds
pe at|score down so low, Engineers were
le, ave < edi in the seldom within scoring distance, mcst
ast week, an pale theit }of the play being in their own ters everyone clapped, | gaan 1 did-|}fitory. In the opening period although
Pe’ e. ear anything so “hot.” ‘They | Meds were within the twenty five yard
— talke about dictators, It seems silly | |jne for fully three quarters of the time
____to me to waste two hours talking on a| they were never able to score. Engine_~ person who dictates spelling, JLhat’s|ers touched for safety a number of
o> | a school teachers’ job, but nevertheless times. The lone score came after
- they seemed to enjoy themselves. | about five minutes of play in the second
And one time every one roared, ‘Lhe] period the ball came out of the scrum
~~ tail Englishman said we had a dictator] on the Engineers twenty yard line, but
i at =bal, namely Murray McNeil.) was fumbled and dropped, then Doug
Frabsee| The crowd clapped ana clapped. 1} Piercey, one of the Meds forwards
~ couldn't see anything very funny im | picked it up and ran over the line for a
that, To tell you a secret, 1 smiled} score. It was the only one of the game.
a cynical smile at them ignorance. | The convert was unsuccessful.
' Poor souls, they dian't kuow that! The game was livened up somewhat
“el Murray MacNeu teaches Arihmetuc|by a promising fist fight between two
_  andnotSpeiimg. members of the rival teams, something
_ ~~ They have societies here called) new in interfaculty rugby.
fraternities and sororities, and last} (Cal Stewart referree the game to the
- weekit wastoofunny, hey asked the| satisfaction of both teams.
"girls to go on so miany parties, and once} L ne up:—

  
  

  

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
    

    
    
  
    
 
   

     

*

 

 
  
       

  

 
 
  
  
    
  
    
    
  
  
  
      
 

   
     
  
  
   
      
    
   
  
    
   
 
    

Dh some guls even hid a treasure, and) Medicine; Fullback—Gibbon; Three
fe.) then: went hunting for it that sell} Quarters—Eagels, Gaum, Medjuck,
mes" same evening. ‘hey couldn't forget] Fairstein; Brody, Murray, Outhouse:

4
>  ~—._-where they put it in one day, could) Forwards—McCurdy, Woods, Wright,
ee at . they mar And Ma, arent such things Piercey, Donaldson.
- against the Christian doctrine, which] Eng neers:—
says there will be ove brotherhood, and} Fullback—McDonald; Three quartthere are three sisterhoods, and about | ers—Fisher, Archibald, Ferguson, Mcoy path ak . This sure is an|Leod; Forwards—Matheson, Taylor
evil place, for me, Ma! Sheppard, McLeod, M ie.
eee Uncle Ney took me for a drive to rE a BSrenean oer
a place called, “Pinehurst,”’ last week
_ | saw the pines, but there were no
_ hearses in sight, Very unsuitably
named to my mind.
i 1 heard another joke, Pa will love
it. It ail arises from the new cars
_ they have in this here er They are
- $0 little and so cute. ell one time a
Scotchman bought one, and he called is
a it “Baby auea Wasn’t that cute? At Shirreff Hall
We He and his wife went driving and his ; Fiat
___ wife said, ‘I don’t like this car, it’s too} The girls at Shirreff Hall have this
ier small.” And her rude Scotch husband | year set a precedent for all future
i; oe answered, “Keep your mouth shut, | generat ons of Hallers. They have
| - woman. We are under a truck going had a Hallowe’en party and it was a
? ‘over a toll bridge.” I can see Pa, ha, | success. ‘
i ha! over that. . Give him a fat kiss too!}_ On Thursday night at 10.30, about
'" -*‘There was a big dance here on forty of the girls assembled in the
- “Monday; the Med dance. I didn’t go;|front hall having been assured that
etd: of course, I wasn’t invited but 1|the Adventurous Male was securely
_ wouldn’t have gone if I had been|!ocked out. Everyone came in cos|. because expenses is so high in this here | tume and it was truly a Hallowe’en
Fy a} city, of course 1 would have walked, pepe wast i oe ee
eed i) Bena : . ’ g-hre and most o
pase A ote darling Isaac to kill| all the varied arrays of the participants.
and roast Péter and send him to me.| For amusement there was dancing
All we get is a combination called|and bobbing apples. Everyone played
“hash”, and I am dying for a good meal ei 3 hil 4 part, vei ane the
Sa, | Sarge a ies for dances and the children going
Bo 21 Tieche you will comply with this|off to a corner of their own with their
here last request of mine. toys and games.
Pate four dutiful daughter At twelve o'clock came lunch and
o i; q “LIZZIE ANN ; . about fifty more Shirreff Hallers. The
sees ty Woe Bree} 5) food was great (other papers please
f P. S— ; ; here :
de SeleHeE Hct. Ther |covy). Bveryene enjoyed the Late
pk - ; i} hope = ler will be some “ups” next 7 ca ¢ ve 1c were to
” Bee. a ao ad cea In fact a good time
ae - Yap ees rg oo ss, « « | Was all. r ; q
if i é x ne fee oa Thanks are chiefly owing to Miss
ee x1 2d atic eed tour next Ietter.to ' Miss McKeen, Constance MacFarlane and
bret r fi FRU sas Muriel Langstroth for the whole evet

   
 
   
       
     
         
     
    
    

 

SNe
ehlen:

   

Halloween Party

     
 

  

 
     
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
    
 
  
   
  
     
  
   
    
     
    
   
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 

  
  

e


i ae
“2

;,

7
vir

  
 
 

  

Se Gn concn an
yak rey f course to Isaac and ning’s erent oe impossible
rt % but one just has to keep up to exaggerate how much they did for
Nan “of dignity among oy party and Shirreff Hall. Thanks

them.
| CATHERINE O. HEBB,

y folks, in private, I'll always

_|“Pensees’”’ on a

breast.

poignant.

respectable;

 

 
  
 

y ae ae Ae
ee oe ie iy, . j
je it ADS 5 (i >

4 Js =

1
4 , e* ._—
ee FS. 7
- \ i

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

ee ne ns

| Belt Line Car

This pain between my eyes that

seems to bore down into :
of my head. Drill, drill, drill.
don’t suppose it will split my poor
head in two? Horrid thought!
I would endure even that if some
inconvenience would thereby be occasioned to this youth sitting next me.
He is, actually, in this day and age,
guilty of wearing a yellow slicker; it
even has somebody’s conception of a
human molar, with the legend ‘‘Dentistry '82’’ underneath, inked over the
Moreover, to complete the
picture he holds under one arm a
magazine entitled ‘‘College Comics.”’
Oh, shades of my vanished youth,
this is really too much; he shouldn’t
be allowed to ride in a street-car for
the Great Unwashed to gape at, he
ought to be preserved under glass in
the Archives Building.
Drill, drill, drill, drill.
sitting as I am beside an embryo dentist, the drilling illusion is even more
I smell Lysol; a starched
white coat scrapes my bare arm;
‘‘Wider please;’’ I wipe blood off my
face and perspiration of my brow.
Tuesday at four-thirty ?

Street,
these red lamps that all the houses
exhibit in their windows, it really isn't
Robie Street,
Street, I must get some Aspirin.
girls with these endless tweed coats
topped by their interminable beaverine
collars—travel coats the shops call
them—travelling to Hollis Street offices, to the Green Lantern, to the
Casino, and home to the Saturday
The vicious but inShall I say, like D. H.
Lawrence, ‘‘how beastly is the bourgeoisie?”’
kindly and telerant mind,
these coats; MUST they wear them,
and in such quantities? There is a
limit to human endurance.
quest the Governor to issue a Mandate
limiting them to three per street, allowing perhaps six on Barrington Street.
Or does the Governor issue mandates,
and what is a mandate anyway?

Summer

Evening Post.
evitable circle.

But no,

e very core
You

Still,

I suppose,

Carleton Street,

Edward
The

I must keep a
However,

I shall re
I suppose I could ask the molar

tete-a-tetes
street-cars.
suggests

specialist but his mien does not invite
promiscuous
females on
demeanor
libertine, and everything of the earnest
seeker after Knowledge; far be it from
me to lure him from his path.

with lone
His whole
nothing of the

Ha! Henry Street! Now just to edge

past him so as not to ruffle his feathers
and his well-known poise...... done!
I need not have taken such care, his
nose is buried in his magazine and he
s oblivious to all save the Kapers of
his Kollege Kut-Ups.

And now a long farewell to this ship
that has passed in the night; a reluctant
leave-taking of this living reminder of
the good old days of 1925-26, (that
conductor has a familiar smile, for me
that I don’t much like) and now home
to my attic, to my sardines, my beer
and my pretzels, and last but by no
means least, to my Huxley—and how
I need him!

K. GRANT.

 

Engineering Notes

One of the “bigger and better’ En
gineering parties is being held at the
Lord Nelson Hotel on Thursday, Oct.
80. This is the first party held this
year by the Engineers and promises
to be a great success.

Engineers played Commerce at Mon
faculty games,

day noon in one of the regular InterThe game ended in a
deadlock, although Commerce sometimes threatened the Engineers. There
were twelve (12) men on the Engineers
while Commerce lined up with a full
team. Fisher was outstanding in his

Fall Fashions

ry HE new Suitings for Fall... . are all

here now... pleasingly colorful that
remind one of the Autumn Sunsets . .
Greys that speak of morning hues ... plain
shades, birdseye effects---or smartly subdued
stripings..... truly a showing that makes
one welcome the new Fall Season with it’s

 

change of dress .

tackling, although the whole team
should be given credit for their hard
work. For Commerce, Prof. Jim McDonald (Big Jim), was the star of the
game and his long kicks did much to
help them. It is understood, however,
that his playing in Interfaculty Football was illegal because he was not a
member of the student body. Engineers (1) lined up as follows:

Fullback, Christie; Quarters, Fisher,
Archibald, Ferguson; Forwards, Matheson, Rood, Taylor, Purtill, Shepard,
Tapley, Morrison; Halves, Harries
Menzie.

The much talked about new Drafting Room will be opened on Friday
afternoon with a _ brief session of
Drawing 3, which will last from3 until
6. It is hoped that all taking this
class will attend. .

Law Wins Over
Arts

Playing in Saturday’s torential downpour on a rain soaked field Law defeated
Arts by a score of 3-0 in a regular scheduled game of the Interfaculty Rugby
League. On the water covered) field
good rugby was next to impossible and
the contest soon turned into a general
ducking for everyone. Arts were short
a number of men, so Law with their
superior number soon got control of
the ball and had the play pretty much
in their own hands. They were unable
to score in the opening period due to a
number of fumbles and the stubborn
defence of the Artsmen, although
play was in Arts territory almost fcr
the whole’ period. Early in the second
half, Law got a try, but on account o
the condition of the ball convert was
almost impossible. Play continued for
a short time following the score and
tlen the rival teams decided to call off
hostilities, on account of the heavy
downpour.

Line-up: .

Law—Fullback, Matheson; Three
quarters, Le Brun, Keating, Cowan,
Green; Halves, Rosenblum, Donahoe,
Coleman; Forwards, McDougall, Haslam, Webber, Foley, Finlayson, Smith
Levy. ;

Arts—Fullback, Fraser; Three quarters, J. McDonald, K, Sullivan, R.
McDonald; Forwards, Cunningham,
Doyle, McLeod, Oland, Ferguson.

Girls Basketball

On Tuesday Oct. 27th, there were
two games of basketball played, both
of which King’s Girls won. The first
game Kings A vs. Dal. Seniors was a
very closely contested one, the final
score being 19-17 in favour of Kings.

 

 

 

 

The result of King’s B. vs. Dal. Juniors]

was 44-12 in favour of Kings, Comeon
Juniors! Where's your fighting spirit?
The line ups were as follows:

Kings A. Kings B.
Anne Allison D. Baker
Melba Lewis E. Hood
Irene MacAlden M. Fairweather
V. Spangler N. Golding
H. Fairweather O. Wiltet

Dal. Seniors. Dal. Juniors.

N. MacDonald J. Gardner
| Wood B. Barnhill
K. Doyle M. Freeze
J. Simms M. Mackie
J. Love W. Forest
G. Curry E. Crouse
E. Allen
—_—__+«—____
Class '84 held a meeting on Thursday
Oct. 30th. Owing to the absence of
the president, Frances Foster presided.
The design for the class pin was chosen,
debaters were asked to go in for the
trials and a class party was discussed.
It was decided to hold a dance at the
Yacht Squadron on Friday the 14th
of November.

      

 

Styled to emphasize every new phase of fashwon...... two and three button styles with
just a hint of slim trim waist, that are irreproachably correct and becoming in every

detail . es

Ready to wear or tailored to measure . . our

     

new Fall suits are priced to recommend themselves to the most discriminating purchaser
..... Please accept this as an invitation to’

come and see them.

       

Colwell Brothers Ltd

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET.

12) Le ae A
a ie ding 7 et » ¢ are ony ee a AE,

  

 
 
 

uae : J
F) rf ‘2 Nendo

 

       
   
   
   
 

 

Page Three

When it was Finished |

When it is finished, Father, and we set,

The war-stained buckler and the bright
blade by,

Bid us remember then what bloody
sweat,

What thorns, what agony

Purchased our wreaths of harvest and
ripe ears

Whose empty hands, whose empty
hearts, whose tears

Ransomed the days to be.

Requiescant

In lonely watches of the night
Great visions burst upon my sight,
For down the stretches of the sky
The hosts of dead go marching by.

 

Strange ghostly banners o’er them float,
Strange bugles sound an awful note,
And ail their faces and their eyes

Are lit with starlight from the skies.

The anguish and the pain have passed
And peace has come to them at last,
But in the stern looks linger still

We leave them to you, Father, we've no | phe iron purpose and the will.

price,

No utmost treasure of the seas and|p.3+ Christ. who reign’st above the
_ lands, ; J flood
No nonce, no deeds, to pay their sacri- | Of human tears and human blood,

ce.

A weary road these men have trod,
O house them in the home of God.

MARJORIE PICTHALL.
FREDERICK GEORGE SCOTT

Turret Hath Charms?!

A

ae

Appease his first outburst of anger with a
Turret—excuses will
be more readily

/ accepted after the
mellow and soothing
comforts of a good
smoke.

URRET

25
mild and fragrant
Cigarettes
Save the valuable “POKER HANDS”

Co-eds ! 1°72,

\ ‘The wt
mC a
Shoppe and
Sports Wear
The Lord Nelson Hotel

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax.

Where you will
find dainty

Lingerie
Hankies
Hosiery

 

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

 

The

fastest growing

newspapers in

G. A. McDonald

OBACONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

Nova Scotia

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price
MADE TO MEASURE
Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
| Barrington and Sackville Sts.

21 Spring Garden Road

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

 

 

 

      
 
         
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  

A A _ Continued from page 1.
credible news on the bulletin-board.
; He did not say much. He was not the
breed that talk. But his face told a
story. He was a country lad, off the
farm, and he had made many sacrifices
to secure an education, He had made
a good degree, he had been awarded
a Rhodes Scholarship. He went to the
.. war. Both legs
.. shell. Dalbaveic lost two Rhodes
— §cholars in the War.
ie . iy the lovely summer of 1916, the
ae 116th Battalion C. E. F. was camped
at: Windsor. There were route-marches and church parades and drills
and sing-songs in the little park. All
was gay and bright. ;
away, it was a fine battalion, and
the smartest officer in it was a tall
athletic, black-haired, black-eyed, redcheeked Dalhousian. His old teacher
never saw him without a smile on his
handsome face. He marched away
with his men, and he never came back.
‘And so one could run through the

Flanders, to Egypt, Africa, Dalhousie
sent Over six pended of her best to the
War, and sixty-seven “remained,” as
they have it in the alien tongue,—
one out of every ten. ‘They jeoparded
their lives to the death in the high
places of the field.”
Perhaps, all things considered, theirs
_was the happiest lot. The War spared
ethers only for years of pain. One
of our boys was wounded at Courcelette, “red Courcelette,”’ at which so
many Halifax boys died. He did not
die then; he had a powerful frame, but
his wound left him a cripple, paralyzed
from the waist down and never for
more than ten minutes at a time free
from pain. Yet he was marvellously
cured of pain (at a price) and took
up life again with eager zest. In
‘spite of his paralysis he went into
politics. He was a persuasive speaker,
with the eloquence of perfect sincerity.
He was making a career, when a cruel
electioneering campaign killed him.
His friend, a Dalhousian with three
degrees, was also wounded at Courcelette. A machine gun at close range
shattered the thigh bone and he was
for months in hospital. He recovered,
and went with the British Mission to
- Russia. He had .a perfect Odyssey
of experience, and he survived many
dangers only to return home to lose his
health. He cannot live in his native
province; he must live abroad. Tho’

_ Men That March

were blown off by a}

    
 

War was far hang another defeat on the Acadia

 
 
 

 

THE
GRIDIRON

A noble band of supporters journey
ed to Wolfville Saturday and supported
their teams with lots of spontaneous
cheering. Big Jim McLeod did not.
have to beg them to exercise their

vocal organs, they were too anxious to
squads.

Captain Ian Fraser saved a sure
score when he threw Acadia’s flying
quarter for a loss on the line.

Clyde
from New Glasgow, lost his temper

Townsend, sturdy forward

ing on an opponent and banished him
from the game. Clyde has often
boasted that he was never put off the
field. But of course the other fellow
swung first.

We want fifteen’ was the old cry but
the boys could not get it although they
tried hard.

 

sd

Howie Ryan was Acadia’s little
white haired boy and received a great
hand from his followers but due to the
excellent work of ‘Pappa’ Maxwell and
Jack Buckley he did not do very much.

 

Harvey’s.try in the first five minutes
of the game was the result of a nice
piece of work, Davison starting the
play.

At times it seemed that the cheering
of some of the Dalhousians for their
respective faculties, Engineering and
Dentistry, would drown the college
yells.

Many surprises and few disappointments greeted the reception accorded
the Dalhousie students at Acadia on
Saturday. The old adage regarding
the teaching of new endeavours tol
canines was literally ‘‘all shot” when
when it was noted that Dalhousians

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Freshmen Defeat
Arts

Freshmen defeated Arts by a score
of 3 to 0 in a crucial game of the
Interfaculty Rugby League at Studley
on Tuesday at noon. Previous to the
game Arts, Freshmen and Law were
in a three cornered tie for first place
and as a result Freshmen are now out
on top.

The game was very close with. the
two teams being evenly matched,
neither holding a decided advantage
for any length of time.

Arts kicked off at the opening whistle
and made a determined rush for the
Freshman goal line, but were stopped
by an equally determined defence.
Freshmen were able to advance the
ball up the field by long kicks for touch.
For the greater part of the period the
Freshman scrum were getting the ball
out to their backfield and Thompson,
Arts fullback, was kept busy returning
their repeated kicks into touch. A

made frequent rushes into Dal territory. About the middle of the period,
Hewatt, Freshman’s Mighty Atom,
went over fora nice try. The attempt
to convert was unsuccessful. Arts
attempted to even up matters and
Longley saved the day for Freshmen
when he made a beautiful tackle to
bring down McDonald after the latter
had made a 40 yard run. Tarley’s
kicking featured this period. Hewatt,
Dunsworth and Sutherland played
well for Freshmen, wnile Thompson
and McDonald turned in good performances for Arts.

Orton Hewatt refereed to the satisfaction of both teams.

Lineup:—

Freshmen—Fullback, Tapley; Three

uarters, Longley, Crowdis, Lloy and

"Brien; Halves, Hewatt, Stewart and
Dunsworth; Forwards, Orr, Smith,
Sutherland, Ferguson, Eakin, McSween
Ferguson.

Arts—Fullback, Thompson; three
quarters, W. McDonald, J. McDonald.
K. Sullivan, Gosse; Halves, R. McDonald, Webber, Teasdale; Forwards, Cunningham, Doyle, McCullough, McLeod,
Teasdale, Ferguson.

The Dead

Blow out, you bugles, over the rich

 

 

Engineers Hold | At the Theatres

Commerce to Tie

faculty rugby game on Thursday at
noon.
on top with a lead of one point over
Engineers in second place.

of the argument and forced Engineers

with only a few yards to go. The

Mei S. Some of the most famous veterans

Commerce and Engineers fought|of the film industry and one of its
through sixty minutes of play to 2|favorite youngsters head the big allscoreless draw in an important inter- | star cast of First National’s ‘‘Road To
Paradise,’ coming to the Garrick TheaAs a result Commerce are still | tre Friday and Saturday.

Loretta Young plays the two mast
important parts in ‘‘Road to Paradise,”
Commerce had somewhat the better {as she has a dual role.

Jack Mulhall is her leading man, and
to touch for safety no fewer than |George Barraud, Raymond Hatton,
eight times during the two periods. | Kathlyn Williams, Dot Farley, Winter
They were never able to cross the Hall, Fred Kelsey and ‘Purnell Pratt
Engineers Line and the final whistle |are among other favorites who have a
found them striving hard for a score | striking characterization to portray,

‘Road to Paradise’ is a novel variety
stubborn defence of the Engineers was|0f crook melodrama,
the feature of the game, as Commerce |€xcitement from the first flash to the

— —_ ee ee oi , > 7? . - = ' = ———————
, et | i \ poe ey ead — et F ‘ ee ye co if @ ~ ; i. A ok - i? es : =
7 a Woy hs 1 Mm > a cad — a ro me - v= =< 3 vee wa iy a q y o ° > 3 nm pe F ' “ re t ”
ere a te s 4 oY) ¥ - 1 f . pe.
Pee Ane ee ee, ey ; Oa ve eel A ' ae Se uy Ee ah
REE Mein Seay Dating ihe tt ‘yr nv © “ At axe
; Se i al mae, oy ' Yo
Fee seh eS eR ine i '
Pee ed r & F
Bees ie e
m I r 4
} ~

November 5th, 1980

acter study, showing what heridity and
| environment does to identical twin
sisters. One is the ward of crooks, the
other lives in luxury,, mistress of her
own fortune,
-——_——_—___ <>< _- —____—_

ENGINEERING CLASS PARTY.

The Engineering Society held its
first class party of the year on Thursday, Oct. 30th, at the Lord Nelson
Hotel. It was a great success, for the
excellence of an Engineering party
was augumented by the Novelty of
a class party being held at the hotel
On account of the new cabaret, the
dancing went on in the Trafalgar
Dining Room, There were about 35
couples present, and the musc was
supplied by Joe Mills. The tables
were prettily decorated with Hallowe'en
colours. The chaperones for the evenng were: Prof. and Mrs, Theakston

GARRICK.

packed with

were getting the ball out of the scrum | fadeout, and yet it is primarily a char-'and Prof. and Mrs. Copp.

time after time, with the Engineers
stopping the backfield by their deadly
tackling. The punting and handling
of the ball by Lou Christie, at fullback
for Engineers was a highlight of the

booting for touch.

Engineers did not appear dangerous
at any time throughout the game and
were always strictly on the defensive.

The teams lines up as follows:—

Commerce—Fullback, McIntosh;
Three quarters, McDonald, Stoddard,
Brown, Zinck; Halves, Ells, Webber,
McDonald; Forwards, Hatfield, O’Brien, Baird, Goodman, Stanfield, Bishop,
Thompson.

Carl Stoddard refereed.

 

 

Lawyers Win
Again---6-0

The Lawyers have at last developed
a scoring punch. Led by the brilliant
kicking and plunging of Jerry Coleman,
they followed up fast and, in spite of
the soggy state of the field and weather
they had pep in abundance. The
scrum worked well and gave the threequarters plenty of work. Although
they had only 14 men, the lawvers
were superior allthrough. They scored
a try in each period, and while the
freshmen pressed occasionally, relief
always came soon.

Why such an astonishing reversal
form should take place in the law team
is rather puzzling. Probably the ans
 

 

 

 

 

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Halifax Ladies College

Oh ili ! ber of free kicks were awarded to ; : sé sience: T or’
list. Strength, courage, ability, char-|—)-. but the watchful eye of Ray leu Gintest’ ..Wariaucdda (auimber: of Household Science: Teacher's
acter marched away,—to France and Smith caught him in the act of swing- ne Me he che oa critical situations by fits accurate Conservatory of Music and Dietician’s Certificate.

Teacher’s Certificate. Graduation Diploma.

Music in all Branches.
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.

MISS E. FLORENCE BLACK WOOD, B.A.,

Principal.

MR. HARRY DEAN,

Director of Conservatory

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE

OFFERS
ENGINEERING COURSES
IN
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.

Write Or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

sedis RARE Lagee

..o LHE...
HALIFAX SUNDAY
GRAPHIC

 

 

 

 

I , hei ld man, bent, [ ; : C '
eeaves, ra Led wie many. sur-| @ few at least) were accorded seating Dead! wer is that they were looking forward
broken, white-haired, y omodation on the limited grand ’ .
‘gical operations. He was the carefree as re dj a inine sie Ral dia ebion There’s ee these so lonely or/to dinner at the Homestead after the
Ree +S Os d the song for the : , ae poor of old, _ |game.
eek [SN elgg as , . fee aie wtih cosa? ia But, i made us rarer gifts} Carl Stoddard refereed with eclat. LATEST IN NEWS AND FEAT URES
- —~——s And these are only a few of the ag : i Ss # than gold.
non stories of the men in, marched away. we oe ie. tdi accks tacked ind Ties Fale Be world away; poured out SPORT EXTRA SATURDAY EVENING
_ ~—— Ss They are not the saddest or most tragic. hae : the re nn
Tei by their blood and suffering and | #Potless leaf in the book of etiquette | sweet wine of youth; gave up the years |
‘the blood and suffering of millions like | >¥ Tudely’ taking a game from their|” “to be ;
o earth cecal waaay, tee. ” But | Visitors. Of work and joy, and that unhoped § CENTS THE'COPY At all recognised Newstands
e price. esatom was a hea’ serene,

 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  

e of freedom was a heayy one
AR STUNT SD Fine
a aur Fk A. M. M: ‘
ee BOI CONTR 'y

e _ The window of the Shanes Men's
‘Wear Shop on Spring Garden Road is

._ ee eee
*

banners, flags and emblems of Dalhousie, The various crests etc. in the
window are due to the kindness of
Mr. Sterling, Physical Director at the
University. Praise is due to Mr.
George Martin for the cartoons of the
football game displayed in the window,
and for his originality in decorating the
window. This shows that one firm at
least in the city is interested in Dalhousie and is backing her. The window display was much admired and
appreciated by the students.

ae
ee

non

>

—s.
Ce at ey

2 Agee oh ne ae
er Sah Af ae

re.
" Zi We

 

Tigers Defeat----
Continued from page 1°

 

motored to Kentville and following
dinner at the Cornwallis Inn returned
to the city later in the evening, each
one wondering just WHY the team
lost that game to the Wanderers.

DAVIDSON

Line-up,

_ Forwards,—Cooper Stewart, R.
_ Baird, Woolner, D. Murray, Townsend,
_ McRae. Halves,—Maxwell, A. Suther_ Jand, Davison. Three Quarters,—
_ Drover, H. Sutherland, Buckley, D.
_ Thompson. Full back,—H. Connor.

4 Bs ® ty

 

 

GOOD EQUIPMENT
For Good Athletes
Those who demand the
best in Sporting Equi

| ot ay +
_ Fine Window Display|

class were not in favour of it.

 

 

_ The Med Dance

Another Med. dance has come and
gone and it was a great success as ever.
Held in the Lord Nelson Hotel on

and Mr. ‘‘Red” Foster. An interesting
feature of the evening was a yell led by
Fat Mackenzie in honour of the football boys who had to leave early. Joe
Mills and his orchestra were exceptionally good. Dr. and Mrs. K. A.
Mackenzie, Dr. and Mrs. J. G. MacDougall, Dr. and Mrs. H. K. MacDonald and Dr. and Mrs. E. K. MacLellan
were chaperones.

 

Theatre Party

Members of the Alumni and active
chapters of Phi Kappa Pi Fraternity
and their girl friends, eighty-six strong,
attended the opening performance
at the Capitol Theatre on Friday
evening, en masse.

The formal party was chaperoned
by Dr. amd Mrs. Hugh Bell, Dr.
and Mrs, Ralph Smith, Dr. and Mrs.
Ted Sieniewicz and Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon Fogo.

 

Class ’32 Meeting

A meeting of class ‘82 was held on
Tuesday Oct. 28. Charlie Lorway,
president was in the chair. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the
idea of having a Junior Ballin the Nova
Scotian Hotel. The majority of ae

e

 

meeting then adjourned.

WED. and THURS.

“LAST of the DUANES’’

WITH
GEORGE O’BRIEN
FRI. and SAT,

“ROAD TO PARADISE”’

WITH
LORETTA YOUNG
JACK MULHALL
Next MON. and TUES,

“All Quiet on the

Western Front”

 

That men call age; and those who
would have been, Vine
Their sons, they gave, their immortal
ity.

Blow, bugles, blow! They bought us,
for our dearth,
Holiness, lacked so long, and Love

And paid his subjects with a royal

wage;
And Nobleness walks in our ways again
And we have come into our heritage.
RUPERT BROOKE.

aa
PERMANENT WAVE
Ringlets Ends $10.00

Regular $15.00 wave for $10.00
on the ‘‘Keen’’ machine
which recently won major
honors at Philadelphia against
the world’s best. No better
wave at any price. Marceling Finger Waving and Bobbing.

Shield’s Beauty Parlor

510 ROY BUILDING
PHONE B.6748

 

  

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

STUDENTS SUPPLIES

MacLeod-Balcom, Ltd
CHEMISTS

Bank of Nova Scotia
AND

St. Andrew’s Church

    
          

WEEK OF NOV. 10th.
Mon.-Tues.-Wed.

ate.
JOLSON

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
GILBERT
ROLAND
N

“Men of the North”

rr : snt time. It is tastefully | tended this “‘best yet’ dance and en- , é¢P* 93
oe Re ied if the, tical Dal colors of |joyed it thoroughly. The door prizes| Honor has come Coa Big Boy
pa Gold and Black, and displays many | Were won by Miss Marjorie Mersereau Eres

 

 

A Change Is Good
For Everybody

Why not a meal or
lunch at the .’.
GREEN LANTERN

occasionally ? re

The Green Lantern

 

 

 

 

 

 

Leather Goods

Portfolios and Loose
Leaf Books, Bags and
Trunks of all kind

and sizes 2..5.45. os.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

 

  

 

ORTHOPHONICS
RECORDS, PIANOS,
MUSICAL GOODS
of all kinds
RADIOS and
RADIO COMBINATIONS

Also Fiction Lending Library

Mc Doald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

 

 

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons
or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

BZ

——
Eatonia

_ SHIRTS FOR MEN
$2.50

The EATONIA shirt’ is made of selected materials, well
tailored with full roomy body, neat patterns and assorted
stripes of blue, helio and black. Two sepatate starched
collars to match. Sizes 14 to 163

Eatons— Matin Floor.

“T. EATON

oO
LIMITED

 

 
