 

  
  
  
 
     
      
  
 
 

if

 

ee £627
ot VOL. LXIV.
_ CouncilPasses
First Budget

_ UnderNewFee

_ _Unitemized budgets were

not ratified—the Coun
cil taking steps towards Financial

 

 

ne Reform
oe At the regular meeting of the
- Student’s Council the following bud
_- geting of monies was ratified. These
estimates are based on the Student fee.
hi Where we had obtained a fully itemised account we were able to budget
ss more correctly. In some cases no
ia _ itemized account was given and we
-were unable to make any grant, but
-_-will consider voting additional sums
when proper reports are submitted.

__ In no case was a reasonable request
- __ turned down, but we are not permitted
by our office to budget monies for
¥ in hich we can show no_ itemized
requisition.

_ This account docs not show any

i
t
+
a sf

_. grant for Year Book publishing, or
ions Ot Dal skating nights. These will be
--—-—s investigated and passed on later.
We ask you to note that in almost

every ~=case the full amount of the
budget was granted. Where it was

~~ not granted other than for reasons
above stated, an increase of approxiey mately one third was given,

ye! We respectfully submit this division

of your monies to your attention and
___ trust it will meet with your approval.

  
 
 
 
    
    

; ‘h at ns Ale ws DENOON,’ Pres.
ee A MUIR, Secy-T reas:
Council of the Students.

tia a

  

 

II... .$550, 00 $450.00
5 inton... 100.00  . 75.00
Pee pall... ...1150.00. 1150.00
/- =. ~ Hockey... ... 567.00 475.00
yc) )_Eetesiseulty,,) |. wey
Sport. ..... 200.00Hockey 100.00
je. tet a) \Otherphases 100.00
ae Boxing...... 52.00 52.00
Track & Field 267.00 250.00

4 1G. A. CG.

. Basketball... 250.00

. Ground

Hockey... .. 100.00

5 -. Ice Hockey... 100.00

(2a) (If hockey trip, as proposed, comes
___ off further allowance will be considered)
~ Delta Gamma 350.00 250.00
- (Girls debating for which no budget
was submitted is included in the above

375.00

Clee a

Pi
wh Delta Gamma Grant).
Sodales...... 282.50 282.50
Glee Club.... 711.00 711.00
Gazette..... 1067.00 1067. 00

    
   
   
 
    
    
    
  
   
    
   
  
  
    
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
 
     
    

Sufficient information was not submitted re Midlothian Club, hence no
grant could be made. However this
will be reconsidered at a !ater date.

Net Reduction... $409. 00

v

 

 

oe! The Council of the Students
hereby gives notice that they will
_- -veceive applications for the positions of editor and business manager of the Dalhousie Year Book for
— - 4930-31. All such applications
MUST be in the hands of the
Secretary of the Council, not later
_ than Monday Nov. 3rd, 1930.

By Order,
J. A. MUIR,

ity Sec’y. Treas.
a Council of the Students.

 

Delta Gamma
: _ The second meeting of Delta
_ Gamma was held on Monday at
 _ $hirreff Hall. The first part of the
m ene was devoted to a _ business
_ meeting. The representatives for the
different classes were elected, Margaret
prey Helen Olmstead for the Junior.
_ Kay Alensmyre for the Sophmore and
Betty March for the Freshette Class.
Following this the formal initiation of
| the first year girls took place. An
entertainment was then put on by the
_ Sophmore and Freshette classes.  Aft
, er this coffee and sandwiches were
e wh _ Miss McKeen, accompanied by Mur iel Langstroth, motored to St. John

a

         
   
 
 

;,
:

Se
i

   
  

-end, ; i, "=F"
iss Tig Beatteay was visiting Miss
‘Napier at Shirtel! Hall
all over the week-end, iA:

 
 

 

    
 

bo)
7

 

COOPER,
MURRAY,
CONNORS,

D. THOMPSON,
WOOLNER,
McRAE,
STEWART,
TOWNSEND,

H. SUTHERLAND,

Helen Williams
is Victorious in
Bye-election

Captured vacancy by narrow margin over Lillian

Sadler

In her third attempt to make the
Student's Council Helen Williams won

out last Friday in the bye election
which the absence of Mary Crocker
-|necessitated. Miss Crocker who had

been elected as the representative of
Class’31 last year was unable to return
to the University this fall. Misses
Williams and Sadler were the ones
nominated to contest the seat and Miss
Williams won out by the small majority
of thirteen. The successful candidate
entered the college four years ago and
will-this year receive her B. A. She
has been most active in all Student
activities, having been Vice President
of Sodales on two occasions, and Vice
President of her class during her
Sophomore year. For two years she
has been a member of the Gazette
staff and the outstanding girl athlete
of the University. Just recently Helen
was the highest scorer of the Girl
track meet. Her sorority is Kappa
Kappa Sigma.

—__++e___

Due to a regretable omission
the names of the other two
judges of the Imperial Debate
were omitted. They were Dr.
Sexton and A. D. Merkle.

Sodales expresses its appreciation to these judges.

 

Dal. Supreme
Moot Court

At the fourth meeting of the 1930
Sittings of the Moot Court the law was
impartially administered by Justices
MacDonald,MacMillanand McIntyre.
Although these men are recognized as
good lawyers, they could hardly keep
up with counsel, Oxley and Haslam.
who discussed the question of turnips
from all angles, in their civil case.
Judge MacDonald congratulated Oxley on being such an expert botanist,
but had to ask him to desist when he
got the judges into deep water.

The judges felt themselves to be on
firmer ground in the second case a
criminal action against Major Ed.
MacCleave. This well-known campus sport was charged with: 1—Check
ing a cinch hand in a game of stud
poker, and 2—Being drunk and disorderly at the Law Dance. The prisoner was ably defended by Gordon
Graham, but so great was the public
outcry against the prisoner that the
judges did not dare to acquit him, and
e was sentenced to a _ well-merited
period of twenty minutes solitary confinement in his room for the purposes of

study.

——_——_>--@

Evelyn McElhinney, member of
Class ’32, had an enjoyable visit to
Toronto this summer, where _ she
attended the Shriner’s Convention.

of things it was found that the Profes
  
 
 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 29rx, 1930.

Dents Hold First
Smoker of the

Year

The Smoker held on Wednesday
last proved that interest is not lacking
among the Tooth-pullers in the march
of progress. Many improvements were
suggested by the students for the
Infirmary and lab. Ina great number

sors were not at fault but the students
themselves. __

President Macintosh opened the
meeting, calling on Dr. Ritchie for an
address, his topic was one well taken,
—A Sense of Humor. Dr. Ritchie is
known for his wittiness, and storytelling. Several of his yarns, although
taken from pre-historic times were
new to the boys. |

Dr. Oxner was the second speaker.
He reported on the recent Dental
conference at Montreal, giving a shortsketch of the business that transpired
and a brief synopsis of Dr. Gray’s
paper on. Modern Treatments for
Pyorrhea and Trench Mouth. The
comprehensive report of the address of
Dr. Gray, who is recognized as a world
wide authority on diseases of the oral
cavity proved of much interest to the
large number of Dental students who
were present.

Following these addresses Drs. Ritchie and Oxner acted as a topic committee and furnished themes for various
speakers selected from the floor representing the different years. The
extemporaneous speeches which followed were most interesting and brought
forth many vital problems which are
confronting the average student both
in the infirmary and the laboratory.

The consumption of apples and
smokes provided by the social committee terminated at ten o’clock and
the meeting was consequently brought
to a close.

 

S.C. A. At Home

On the evening of Friday 24th, the
S. C. A. held a most enjoyable At
Home for Class ’84 in the Y. M. C. A.
The evening began with a short formal
programme:—

Piano Solo—Warren Langille.

Vocal Solo—Frances Morrison.

Reading—Marie Fergusson.

Vocal Solo—Eric Found.

“History Lecture’’—Prof. Mercer.

At the close of this programme
Allison Fraser, president of the Association, addressed a few words of welcome
to the Freshman Class, inviting them
to join the Association and one of the

Dalhousie’s Senior Rugby Team----1930

 

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

R. BAIRD,
BUCKLEY,

A. SUTHERLAND,
DROVER,
MAXWELL,
DAVIDSON,
DUXBURY,

KIRK McLELLAN
Coach,

AB. SMITH.

 

Students Council Little Theatre
Holds Important | Movement Holds

Meeting

The Council of the Students held
their second regular meeting on Friday,
Oct. 24. Only one member was absent. Miss Helen Williams, new member for Class "80 made her initial appearance at this occasion.

The following isa brief outline of the
evening’s docket: The reading of a
letter from Miss Mary Crocker, who
was unable to return this year, expressing best wishes.

Discussion of the disappearance of
newspapers from reading rooms of the
Forrest Building.

Personal report of the Business
Manager of 1929-30 Year Book; followed by discussion,

Appointment of a committee to
handle applications for‘ positions of
Editor and Business Manager respectively ot this year’s Year Book.

Report of committee in charge of
Council dance.

The ratifying and adjusting of recommendations of Finance committee for
grants to the various student organizations. A detailed report of this will be
published in next week’s Gazette.

A. discussion of prospective Dal
nights at the Forum. The handling
of this matter will be turned over to the
D..A. A.C.

Authorization of the secretary to
express the appreciation of the Council
to the Committee of Seven and others
for the establishing of the Book Bureau.

The Radio Extension question: The
secretary was authorized to write to the
committee in charge asking them that
the “mike’’ be made available for the
students again this year.

Miss Hebb and Mr. Goudge were
appointed as a committee to work in
conjunction with the Committee of
Seven in revising the Council Constitution.

The above committee are also to
investigate the feasibility of a permanent Secretary-Treasurer for the Council, also a Students’ Directory.

——

Doris Henley, Arts 29, spent her
holiday in Halifax this summer, and
motored back to Kingston, Ontario,
via New York. She leaves Montreal
this month for Paris, where she will
spend the winter, receiving further
instruction in French.

 

 

study groups. The company then
paired off tor games which were conducted by Willard Pichetto. Towards
the end of the evening refreshments
were served and the party broke up
with the singing of ‘Glory for Dalhousie’’ and the Dalhousie yell. The
chaperones for the evening were Dr.
and Mrs. Bronson. E. M. W.

 

New Medical Fraternity Formed
at Dalhousie

 

Four Doctors arrived from New York to give charter
to University’s Tenth Frat.

 

On Monday evening there took
place at the Lord Nelson Hotel a banuet which marked tne installation of

hi Delta Epsilon Fraternity, Dalhousie’s latest medical fraternity. Four
medical doctors came from New. York
the express purpose of installing this
chapter at Dalhousie. Phi Delta Epsilon Fraternity originated at Cornell in
1904 and this makes the 54th chapter.
This fraternity covers practically every
grade A Medical College in Canada and
the United States. The membership

is over five thousand. The honored
guests at the Banquet were; Judge
Carroll, Dr. Green, Dr. Keshin, and
Professor Bean. There were also representatives from each of the two
Med Fraternities already functioning
at Dalhousie. Mr, Phillip Magonet
was Master of Ceremonies and was
chosen first president of the Chapter.
The Chartered members are; Philip
Magonet, Harold Davidson, Abe Gaum,
Mike Kimmel, Oscar Rogel, Fred
Swartzberg and Lester Rosenfeld.

  

 

Meeting

Plans made to Produce
The Young Idea early
in November

At a recent meeting of the Little
Theatre Movement it was: decided to
produce “The Young Idea”—by Noel
Coward.

Mr. Coward is one of the most
original of the younger playwrights—
his “Vortex” “The Rat Snap” and
“Fallen Angels’ causing great controversy when first produced in London.
Recently he has made a very great
success in the operetta field with
“Bitter Sweets.” He has also written
most of the lyrics and music for Mr.
C. B. Cochrans record success—‘‘This
Year of Grace,” and “Wake up and
Dream,’’

The movement has been unfortunate
in losing a few of its original members:
Madelaine Page, Margaret Ells, Edith
Macneill, George Whitely, Rolph Grant
and others.

Altho the cast for “The Young
Idea” is tenatively decided upon,—
more actors and actresses are needed
for understudys—and for future productions, Anyone interested is requested to communicate with Mr.
Ralph Morton—they need not necessarily be students.

In choosing ‘‘The Young Idea” the
executive has chosen a play which
particularly appeals to the post war
generation—it is a play one will not see
produced by stock companies or in the
talkies, and it is hoped that every
student interested in the progress of
modern drama will support the movement,

The production will take place
during the first part of November.

 

 

Society Meetings

Le Cercle Francaise held its first
meeting at Shirreff Hall, Wednesday
October 22nd. The officers for the
ensuing year are—President, Dick
Squires; Vice President, Anne Allison;
Secretary-Treasurer, Charlie LeBrun.
It is to be hoped that as many as possible will join. Interesting program
mes have been arranged for forthcoming meetings, to consist of French
games, plays, songs, dictations and

discussions. The next meeting will he
held at Shirreff Hall, Thursday, October
80th, at 8 o’clock.

Class '82 held a meeting on October
21st in Room 8. The purpose of this
meeting was to discuss the matter of a
class party. It was decided that '31
and '32 should have a combined party,
to be held after Thanksgiving. The
social committees of the two classes
were to decide upon the place. The
meeting was then adjourned.

Class ’31 had their second meeting
of the term on Tuesday last with the
president, William Jost, in the chair.

he purpose of this meeting was to
discuss plans for a class party. The
class decided that this should not be
held till after Thanksgiving, and that
it should be held in conjunction with
class’32, The meeting then adjourned.

 

 

No. 4

 

 

Dalhousie

Loses To
Wanderers

Clubmen Capture the City
League ‘itle---Fordham Badly Injured
Thompson

Scored

Constant fumbling, poor kicking
and an evident lack of team play on
the part of Dalhousie football fifteen
combined with a smooth working
representation of, Wanderres who were
able to take advantage of every break,
to dispel the hopes of over five hundred
students who journeded to Redland
Tuesday afternoon hoping against
hope that the Dal boys would be able
to offset the previous 14-3 victory
scored by the Wanderers in the opening
game of the league.

 

Team Listless.

The Dalhousie team appeared listless
and threw away countless opportunities
to even the score in the opening
minutes of the second half and that
something which was required to get
the ball over the line was lacking. On
the other hand the Wanderers played
consistently throughout and made the
most of the opportunities givem them
Their backfield was a constant threat
to the collegians and nice runs featured
by the newly adopted long passes
were responsible for nine of the eleven
points scored.

Thompson’s Try.

In the dying moments of the game
the Dal squad showed some of the
fight which featured the recent 25-0
victory over Acadia, and with a short
five minutes to go, Don Thompson
scored Dal’s only try of the game when
he received a pass from Buckley on
the twenty five yard line and zigzagged his way to the line.

Hopes Aroused,

This play again aroused the hopes
of the college rooters who were starting
to leave in an effort to avoid threaening
showers but’ their entreaties came in
vain and play ended shortly after near
center field.

The Wanderers were without the
services of Art Fordham, star three
quarter man, during the second half,
Te was removed from the field near
the end of the initial frame on account
of painful injuries received in a scrimmage on the Wanderers five yard line,

Showing Creditable.

_ There was a noticeable improvement
in the work of the Dalhousie rront line
yesterday, but the work of the backfield was disappointing, to the eage1
student fans.

However the showing made by our
gridiron representatives so far this
scason is quite creditable and a win

Continued on page 4.

 

First Glee Club
Show will be Held
on Monday Night

 

Class ’34

 

On Tuesday, October 21st, the
Freshman Class held a meeting in
Room 4. The first subject brought

up was the matter of dues—the $3,00
fee was adapted. Class pins were
discussed and a committee was appointed to select several samples of pins,
It was decided that a party would be
held the second week in November,
Betty March, Gladys Jost, J. D. Sadler
and Don Stewart were appointed to
take charge of it. The meeting was
then adjourned,

 

Sorority Dinner

The Kappa Beta Phi Sorority held
a very enjoyable dinner on October
21st at the Green Lantern in honour
of the new members, About twentyone were present. After the dinner
the girls went to the sorority room on
23 South Park Street where a short
meeting was held. Miss Clair Murphy
and Miss Lillian Sadler, this year’s
president, gave short talks,

a a ie ASE ee

 

a
—

EE

 
    
 
     

   
  

 

      

oe ha oa) aor ¥ ae
a sae rh, s "
Ms ry 5

   

   
 
  

vet

: i 4) * x ?
rt ’ |

7 A
iu

- s
ay

 
     

hat?

¥a

   
        
    

 

  
  

  

if
f

Foutided 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”

 
  

 

Managing Editor:
A. GORDON COOPER
§.2143.

_T. A. GOUDGE,
T. D. MACDONALD,
RK _ W. 'T. DAUPHINEE,
~~ DORIS MARGESON
_ Sports Editor:
| 7 F) R. DUXBURY.

oe

‘, yh News Editors:
oot 0424 CHARLES MILLER,
| . - DOUGLAS GIBBON,
wees : ROBERT KANIGSBERG,
anu tart ELIZABETH MURRAY.
| EARLE GOLDBERG.

Business Manager:
J. R. DONAHOE,

Asst. Business Manager:
DONALD MAHON,
L 2074

  

i =
RINTED BY WM. MACNAB & SON, 7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. S.

{23 &

 
      
  

ia ea
: ,
Me

 

  

  

ak: ORGANIZED CHEERING.
Bre ny With the football season at its height, and important games

to be played in the near future once again we are entreated and
hc ys - implored to ‘‘show our college spirit’ by yelling ourselves hoarse
under the direction of a wildly gesticulating figure of a cheerleader. Already a meeting has been held to instil the proper
amount of enthusiasm into the occupants of the bleacher seats on
, Ren § aturdays. lt is reported that the pep rally held was a success,
by which one supposes it is meant that those present had sore
throats at the conclusion of the evening.

_ ‘These pep-rallies, fight talks and other forms of ballyhoo are
-_ importations from the universities of the United States. As
_ pointed out in an article appearing in the Gazette of last week,
they tend to place undue emphasis on winning a game at the expense
of real sportsmansaip From the spectator’s point of view they
may add to the appeal of the game. But in themselves they are
‘ yf absurb manifestations of immaturity. ‘he belief that the amount
of college spirit (whatever that phrase may mean) possessed by any
university is directly proportional to the amount of organized
“noise their students can make at a football game is absurd.

rat

ac _ The porular belief held is that organized cheering, fight talks
and 0 on, assist materially in gaining victories for a team. As
_ before pointed out, such a beliet in the first place puts undue
hasis on the mere winning of a contest. Secondly, it is ex
yhether t cheer-leader’s herd is effective with

ers of a team on the field never hear a

g their hardest. The mere fact that
incentive to better play, and the only

n those bleachers, as far as the players
‘the spontaneous variety. | This, being the exindividual opinion, applauds good sportsmanship
j, rather than expressing a wild desire for a win or
ssesses a crowd tiained by fight talks to demand
mn sportsmanship.

  

     
  
   

   
 

, my i: i
‘ ae fs

Pah

  
  

  

  

vt

 
  

  
   
 

    

  

   
     
 

      
    
       
      
    
      
     
      
       
      
      
    
    
    
       

 
  

ih; i '
f x

un

 

SPECIALIZATION IN EDUCATION.

There has been a noticeable trend in recent years in educational
circles leading away from subjects taught merely because of their
cultural value, and into new and specialized fields. Thus one
finds degrees given designed to fit one for success in almost any
- occupation in life befitting a college graduate, and obtained with
out the study of Latin, History and other subjects regarded as

essential and highly desirable to any educated man a few years

ago. The more conservative universities have been slower to
- adopt these modern changes, but are apparently falling in line, at
east to some extent, with their more radical associates in the
educational field.

i Reasons for the increase of the tendency noted are not difficult
to find. There is the commercial magnate who believes that one
can become a much better business man if one possesses a degree in
Commerce rather than a pure Arts diploma, which to him signifies
that the holder thereof has devoted much of his time to classes
useless to him in the world of business. Consequently he gives
his money to a university to establish a course omitting what to
* him are undersirable courses and substituting in their places
--——s-« studies of different phases of business. Similarly large donors in
| other fields to endowment funds insist on the insertion of courses
in the curriculum on household science, scenario writing, journalism,
or what have you. Also the universities in establishing specialized
courses are merely falling in line with the present day cry for
“experts” in this or that field. The public which supports a
university demands that a greater choice of courses and ‘“‘something of practical value” be taught to those who apply for higher
education.
ms This tendency to specialization in colleges is regrettable.
| —~——s«é&Ffor example, to those about to commence a college training with
the intention of ultimate entry into the business world it naturally
appears that a number of subjects with a direct bearing on business
is what is required. Having enrolled for such a course they find,
in most cases too late, that they have absorbed merely a few facts
about the business world of today and, although having a smattering of subjects of real educational! value, leave college with something of far less value than the expenditme of time and money
should have provided. Of course the gathering of certain facts
through classes is of some use, but the real value of college training
lies in the acquaintance one forms with the fundamental principles
and beliefs of life and thought. Study specialized to a high degree
will not yield this appreciation of fundamentals which gives a
foundation upon which any career may be built... Many subjects
which those who have never attended a university regard as
-__uselezs and dead are 1eally courses which inspire thought and give
a broad culture otherwise unobtainable. The real value and
object of any education is to impart to the one undeigoing the
‘process the habit of independent thought and the advantage of
road culture. These two are impossible of development
sses taught concern themselves only with the procedure
1e particular field. Post graduate work may offer
d training but undergraduate courses should
with the study of the intellectual foundations
te. myth Had i ; .
a a :

 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
  
    
    
 
   
 

 

| at: i
1 nil: ‘: cS
y ] —" =

el
i

 
  

    

 
  
  
 
   

Aial he


    
 

   

 

  
 

  

 

Something to

i rats ‘ fo 3 "
: i 7 ; . ; h < x the’ ¥ Fr 1 '
a cas Q ne 4 mI is x t 4 r ia a 4 ‘&
RUE Mas uh er hiv Chl gilt Sy bEt oa p>
pr Aly Pariah aL Audie 84/4
¥ Ae 1 At Me Le pe) oe

Argue About

(A column inviting comment and con
troversy).

The Dalhousie Year Book which

_\appeared last April was in many re
spects an unqualified success. It won
for itself and for the University it
represented, much well-merited praise.
Considered from a financial standpoint
however, Pharos has turned out to be
almost a complete failure, and reports
inform us of a very heavy deficit. To
note this, is to cast no innuedoes upon
the business management of the Year
Book, but rather to call attention to

the fact that Pharos was not given the

support the student body, That is
‘putting the matter mildly. The truth
is that sixty-five Dalhousie students
who pledged themselves in writing to
purchase a copy of the book, failed or
refused to do so when the time came.
Think of it! Sixty-five students were
dishonest enough not to live up to a
contract and agreement which they
had signed!. Those persons ought to
feel throughly ashamed of their dishonourable actions, since they are in a
large measure responsible for the
unfortunate financial condition of Pharos at the present time. It is very
discouraging to the enthusiastic
sponsors of the Year Book to have it
treated with such apathetical indifference, They gave unsparingly of their
time and energy, and they produced a
very excellent piece of work. Surely
the least the student body can do to
show their appreciation, is to lend
wholehearted financial support.

In a certain room in the basement
of the Arts Building, one can see a
sight that is reminiscent of those terrible years between 1914 and 1918.
Rows of sleek, black rifles, shelves of
hideous uniforms, and boxes of military
equipment occupy nearly all available
space. Strange articles, these, to find
within the cloistered walls of a university where the peaceful pursuit of
learning is supposed to be the dominant
interest. The Dalhousie C, O. T. C.
reorganized two years ago, is the owner
of this martial apparatus, and once a
week it is proudly paraded about by the
members of that body. Now is such
an organization as this justified at our
University? We venture to suggest
that in an institution devoted to
education, where subtle influences are
at work broadening and maturing the
student’s outlook on men and things
the C. O.T. C. is entirely out of place.
For the purpose of this organization is
militaristic, though many persons try
to gloss over the fact, and there is always in the background, the underlying
idea of war. War is a senseless, a
terrible, a ghastly business. The sole
hope of the human race to obliterate it
from the earth is through education.
When humanity has becoWe too wise
to be exploited by a few ambitious
politicians, when it has become too
benevolent and tolerant to wish to
slaughter its fellow creatures, only
then, when education in its fullest and
truest sense has developed the minds of

|the people, can war ever be abolished.

But so long as the ignorant see university men “playing soldier’ about the
campus, the world will never reach
that utopian state where the futility
of war is apparent to all. What do
you think?

 

We sometimes grow very weary of
hearing the athletic glories of another
age extolled by the “‘old timers,” to the
detriment of present day sport. Of
course we always take these encomiums with the proverbial grano cum
salis, but often the hyperboles tax our
toleration a wee bit too much. For
instance, we heard an ex-football star
of the wild nineties remarking that
players in these days never get into
condition like the men of his time, and
he made the statement that it was
gee a@ common occurrence for him anda
ew of his mates, to run around Bedford Basin during the football season.
Now although we are quite gullible, we
absolutely refuse to swallow this one,
For the distance around Bedford Basin
is twenty miles—a tough run for even a
weatherbeaten and experienced marathoner, let alone an ordinary runner.
If those football players back in the
halcyon days when men were men, did

run around the Basin every day after

practice, then they were crazy. If
they didn’t, then they are crazy to expect us to believe such fairy tales.
The football stars of times gone by
were good, very good, we don’t for a
moment deny it. But our humble
opinion is that the boys who play today are every bit their equals.

The phrase “a liberal education,” has
become a rather trite expression in
modern speech, Nevertheless, the
phrase itself is a very suggestive one,
bearing with it a countless number of
interesting considerations.

Perhaps the best concise definition oi
this phrase, comes from the English
philosopher John Stuart Mill. He
meant it as a description ot the scientist; but it stands as an example of
what a liberally educated mind should
be. Here is the passage in brief form.

“To question all things;—never to

turn away from any difficulty; to

accept no doctrine either from ourselves or from other people without

a rigid scrutiny by negative criticism;

letting no fallacy, or incoherence, or

confusion of thought, step by unperceived; above all to insist upon having the meaning of a word clearly
understood before using it, and the
meaning of a proposition before
assenting to it;—these are the lessons
we learn from ‘workers in Science’...

The noblest enthusiasm both for the

search after truth, and for applying

it to its noblest uses, pervades those
writers”

Here is a challenge to all persons who
consider themselves educated. How
many can honestly say that they have
this spirit of unbiased judgement? How
Many can measure up to this standard?

| Truly we have much to learn.

 
 

  
 
    
  

sy a 4
f=* > 1

r ; t }

: j ™ '

‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Comment
MILDEW.

“Every time we speak on anything
like that, we’re hauled over the coals
by somebody.. I would, if it
weren't such a burning political question. We can’t give our personal
opinions on a thing like that.”

These sentences constitute the reply
ot Professor E. J. Urwick, head of the
Department of Political Science and
Economics, to “‘The Varsity’s’’ request
for his views on Bennett’s Empire trade
policy.

Shades of Professor- Irwin. and last
year’s “mildew of discretion’’ controversy! Can the University of Toronto dare to lay claim to a place among
the world’s brain-centres as long as it
imposes upon the members of its faculty
the necessity of slinking into a corner
every time the bone of controversy is
dragged out?

It was all exhausted last year when
the departing Professor Irwin wrote his
famous epistle in which he said a lot of
things that not a few of his confreres
would like to say if they dared. The
best minds in the country are being
bound and gagged by a bureaucratic
machine whose minions haven’t any
more backbone than a silkworm themselves and who shudder exquisitely at
the thought that anyone else may have
the temerity to express an honest
opinion on a moot question.

As long as Professor Blank confines
himself to vague harangues about rare
pre-historic insects and the political
altercations of ancient Chaldea, the
orifice of officialdom sets itself in a
benign paternal smile. But let Professor Blank once venture to make a
pertinent remark for publication anent
some live issue that comes home to
men’s business and bosoms, and the
orifice will show its teeth. And the
teeth of officialdom, though they may
grind slowly, grind exceeding small.

The spectacle of a prominent department head in the University of
Toronto retiring in trembling confusion
rather than commit himself on a subject
for which a lifetime of training has

ualified him to speak is not exactly a
thing to inspire in the lay mind any
element of respect. But as long as our
first-class minds are dependent for
their bread and butter upon a coterie
of third-class minds, the present condition will continue to obtain.

We will long remember as a classic
the remark of G. Howard Ferguson,
Premier and Minister of Education of
the Province, when confronted last winter with Professor Irwin's allegations, by
representatives of the down-town press.

“TI believe Professor Irwin is leaving
at the end of the year,” quoth the
Prime Minister of Ontario. ‘‘It is just
as well.”

Varsity.

THE ‘‘PROVINCIAL”’
UNIVERSITY.

The other day a Med sadly confided
to us that there were only a few men
in his year who knew the taste of beer.
Not that knowing the taste of beer is
so important, but it seems typical of
the average undergraduate at Toronto.
His McGill brother to the impartial
observer, has savoir faire. Part of
this difference we consider to be due to
the different influences of the two cities
in which the universities are located.
How can a University rise above the
spirit of its own city, and as the Ottawa
Journal observed last year during the

Communist “riots,” “Toronto, for all
‘its skyscrapers, is still a small town.”
The spirit of complacency and smugness which inundate the city, seeps into
the University and prevents healthy
soul-searching which might result in an
improvement.

The University Director of Publicity
has never heard of Rudy Vallee. He
is lucky, but just the same we are inclined to wonder how he missed anything so public, The undergraduate
shudders at the prospect of the “Blue
and White’’ resounding in every dance
hall in America, not knowing that
Vallee has sung about a hundred college
songs, with only the Maine “Stein
Song” catching the public fancy.

To this same undergraduate, the
Uptown, followed by coffee at Murray’s
is a thrilling evening. He neither
knows nor asks for anything better,
But what can we expect in a city where
night clubs languish and die for lack
of patronage? Look around at the
next formal dance and count the coloured socks, hooked ties and mushroom-front shirts. Alas, there will be
too many! But is it any wonder?

Last year a co-educational section in
the bleachers was hailed as a great
innovation, and this year the segregation of the sexes is still continued at the
football games as well as in the classrooms, They say co-education was
introduced here in the last century. It
still seems to be in the introductory
stage.

In our annual crop of freshmen lies
the hope of removing our stigma of
gaucherie, The upper-classmen are
the ones looked up to and imitated.
If they do not present a better front,
what hope is there that the green frosh
will lose his Haley’s Station stamp, and
learn to do, say, and wear, the right
thing at the right time? Small-towners
always resent and fear anything in the
nature of an innovation, something they
do not understand. Trinity men are
decried because they want to wear
comfortable clothes. Hence three years
ago the Ryan reforms were howled
down through a combination of narrowmindedness and mob psychology.

This isa far cry from undergraduates
not knowing the taste of beer, and far be
it from us to advocate drunkenness,
but it is our opinion that a good dose
of worldliness in the best sense
of the word, would be a good thing for
the largest university in the British
Empire.

Varsity.

—titt ttt tL
—————————$—$

a \

ai
ae re rm ie . " ws
a ak, ed
ey i, :

_—|Canadian College The Eternal Quest

Ce nnn
tiie tt aaa i cetmncnce acacia
a

    
 

ot a et A Fs
i

  

cf i
F3 t 4 ie qiaw
bf ek

oe “haa T Hee Ns
ry le ,
s “ Vr io . °

te,

   

  

Octobter 29th, 1930.

- Through the
Looking Glass

It has been suggested that the
Student’s Council should publish for
the convenience of th University a
students’ directory which would contain the names and addresses of all
those in attendance at the College.
This custom has been established at all
the large universities and should be
introduced at Dalhousie, if not this
year at least next. The cost would be
very slight as there would be no necessity to make the booklet elaborate.
What do you think of the suggestion?

How many in the University have
tried to get Shirriff Hall on the telephone in the evening or around noon,
the times during the day when it is
most convenient to call. Or for that
matter have you ever been able to get
a hold of anyone around this University without either repeatedly hearing
central say ‘line is busy’”’ or having to
ask someone to go look for the desired
party. I think not, and yet this condition is permitted to exist year after
year in an institution which prides
itself on being progressive. Many of
the business firms in the city have a
P. B. X. for a long time and all the
hotels, which in some cases do not
accomodate nearly as many guests as
we have students, are thus equipped.
Why has not Dalhousie got a P. B.X.?
This matter was mentioned in the colums of the Gazette once before but the
effort was wasted, We earnestly hope
for the good of the University and the
convenience of all those who are in any
way connected with the institution,
that this effort will not receive the same
treatment,

   
          
    
    
        
     

      

for Pleasures

What perplexes the writer is just
what is the ultimate goal of all our
efforts to live. True, the subject is an
old one, but not having delved into the
realms of Metaphysics or other branches
of Philosophy, in order to reason out
this enigma logically, the writer would
appreciate other than his plebian
opinions,

If one were to go into an Economics
Class, one immediately hears of “The
Satisfaction of our Wants,"’ ‘Margin
of Utility,”’ and other like phrases
which point out that empirical law,
namely, that man seeks. the..greatest
enjoyment out of Life. But why go
to classes at College to learn this? Do
we not actually see it? Are we not
aware of it? Would we regard Life as
precious if it were one dull routine,
offering us very little enjoyment?

Where does all this quest for pleasures
lead us, is the subject question the
writer wishes to raise? Suppose you
were born on the same day as I and
tasted the same experiences throughout
your life, with the exception that just
before we died, I managed to eat one
more jelly bean than you. Ceteris
paribus, and we assumed them to be,
this would mean that I have enjoyed
life better than you have. But how
much better off am [ than you?

True, man’s lust for pleasure is
hereditary, and the writer does not
advocate the abolishment of pleasures,
but his simple or rather complex question is ‘‘How much more do you get
out of Life than he, and how much
better off are you as a result of this.
“In short, is there a certain goal, which
once reached offers man no more
pleasures, or do the joys of life extend
ad infinitum? It is the writers personal
belief that there is such a goal. If one
looks about, one will notice that as a
rule, the richer people become the less
they enjoy life. Once they have the
wherewithal to obtain those pleasures
which are purchasable, their greed for
them greatly deminishes. There remain then only those pleasures which
are common to all classes. This does
not mean that the poorer one is the
more one takes out of life. But it is
not true that the greatest enjoyment
derived out of anything is during the
period preceeding the object’s attainment,

Suppose there is a limit to pleasures.
What when this goal is reached? Isn't
it all a mere chimera, a fantasy, a
fleeting moments fancy concerning a
Mythical figure Pleasure? What tangible thing remains? In the long run
what do we really gain?» Is the person
who has learnt to Fox-Trot in this
world ‘‘better off” than the one who
hasn't? In short is there a norm or
standard which we’ have to pass in
order to be dubbed successes or is the
forty percent pass list abolished when
our Trial Balances are finally made up?

It is not the aim of the writer to
produce a lugubrious picture in the
very midst of all our College Entertainments, but it is only the writer's
inquisitiveness to find out just what
is what so that he may know how to
adjust the course of his pleasures.
Are there any solutions to the riddle?

B.. Be,
————~-e—_____

     
     
     
    
         
 
 
    
     
   
         
          
      
     

      
       
       
     
      
      
    

  
 
      
      
   
   
  
    
 

The Notice that appeared in the last
issue of the Gazette calling for students
who wish to be tutored in Latin is
believed to have been forwarded to the
office by Mr. HUM HARRIS. At
least that is the only conclusion that
we can draw, having investigated the
facts and finding them to tally. perfectly with the hectic career of the
above mentioned Dent.

      
    
    
       
    
      
     
        

We have it from Dr. Todd that
although the past summer was pretty
dry, yes even as dry as the previous
one, yet the crop of Freshettes at least
show an improvement over that of the
year before. And George Crouse when
interviewed on the matter said “and
well it might. So disappointed ,was I
in the freshettes of last year when I had
decided at last to step out that I
absolutely refused to teach Elementary
Latin this year and have to suffer the
same disappointment.” Too bad
George, it seems that it is just your
tough luck but don’t worry, another
year is coming and you will be back at
the old job again.

    
      
     
     
 
    
     
 

~ ee

_ wonder how many students in the University do not know where the different
leading Colleges in Canada are situated.
If there are none then we can consider
ourselves better intormed than the
Students of one of the leading institutiors of learing in the Dominion. We
have been receiving the Varsity, the
college paper of the University of
Toronto under the address ‘‘Dalhousie
Gazette, Dalhousie University, Dalhousie, N. §.” It certainly does
not speak very well for the Canadian
Student when he is ignorant that
Dalhousie University, which has supplied to the Dominion some of its most
brilliant men, is situated in Halifax and
not down in the woods of Lunenburg
County.

Algy Matheson is at present District Engineer of Roads in Madawaska County, New Brunswick.

Don Murray is taking an M.A. in
English at Harvard.

TT

 

-its a hobby with us-
    
    
      

---this selling clothes
---that fit---
 
 

to sell aman a suit or
overcoat that DOES
NOT gape at the collar-----ride up on the
wearer’s back------or
wrinkle across the
shoulders----is to us a
thing of beauty and a
joy forever ------ thats
where our hand-tailoring gets in its fine
work

come in and see for yourself

students get a discount of ten per cent.

Shanes Mens Wear
Shop

Garden Road, Halifax

 

30 Spring

 

 

eT —~- as
Se

« ‘ 7 °F > :
Pie 4 Sy ,
4 Ff, ’ ; A ol > i
ee Be pt ue Pa oa we f pile ee
lll ete ene ge gas eas a [a ee ee ee

bees
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
     
    
    
    
  
   
   
   
     
    
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

an
the Students |
1 1929-30

2 Balifex.. N.S.
Bray. Sept. 26, 1980.
mee

" The Council of the Students,
i _ Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N.S

ha coms De ;
‘ake _ I have examined the books and accounts of the Council of Students for
_ the session 1929-30 and certify that the
_ attached statement is in accordance
i] . _ therewith.
_._ The work of the Treasurer was found
to be excellent. His duties in connec4, ee with the finances appear to have
___ been discharged with care and the books
____were kept in splendid condition.
'. However, there is still a noticeable
har 4 Oe of a systematic record of ex___-penditures, kept by the executives of
_.. the various organizations which receive
_ financial assistance from the Council
_ I would strongly recommend that the
Finance Committee of the Council go
into this matter immediately, with the
- aim of devising some standard accounting system, which would do away
___-with the evils of the present haphazard
method of handling the Students’
” Ff funds. I think that any money spent
_ in installing such a system would be
well spent,

   
    
  
  
   
 
 
    
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
     
 
    
  

i
.y 2 #
4

'

i i oe q
on) |

Respectfully submitted,
H. C. Morton.

i

Auditor, 1929-80.
r _ THE COUNCIL OF THE STU_ DENTS, DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY. FINANCIAL
STATEMENT 1929-30.

$485.10

Receipts

“a Council of the Students.
‘Student Fees..... ..$5617.50

 

 

woe) Bank Interest......- 28.98
Year Book (Surplus
Suet | 229). ak 1.57
___ Arts & Science Soc... H oe
ie | Be Sa Se, a's !
eo 5689.25
Be et a Ace 856.10
oat oer 141.85
iets La heres oe
ese ateae :
a . ari — 1103.51
Aceh a wets Ws aN) dacs 49.65
«a ie: Ice Hockey. te a ae th Me ; 5
i a all P ataial aca .
; Bie farses thal vs ‘3 Acted
. at: . a - yr 4 eee 4. see. ri “ ;
i tin Ba sdk Bet ole T

Set Vhs
ae j pipe at G2 ewe 4,58
sae” PRLS: ALG 8 SST)

° : 63.51

4

Total Receipts ay ‘hile oe at
iter aT

 

+,

"

‘
A
“

ay

a!

ss Expenditures
Cos

_ Dance...... acees) 106.76 ner, 2nd Irene McCalder, Kings, and
Salary, Secre q Polly Burris ’32 tied; distance 144’ 5”.
ne tseres 100.00 Running Broad Jump, won by Irene
N.F.C.U.C. Dues... 125.15 Matheson, 2nd Helen Williams, 3rd
Year Book......... 500.00 Gladys Jost; distance 14’ 3”,
Two Dal Rink Nights 225.00 High Jump, won by Ruth Crandall,
Outstanding . Ac- '34, 2nd Gladys Jost, 3rd Jean Gardner;
counts, ‘28-29..... 196.65 height 3’ 10$’.
General... 2. o6 28254: 316.01 Class Relay won by Class 34, 2nd
| ———— $1569.57 Kings, 3rd Class ’32, time 65 sec.
| DLA. A. C. The 220 yard dash was not run
ea ec ve 1787.93 because taere was only one entry for it.
diate Base ss 559.58 The number of points given tor first
babe eds 25 512.94 place was 5, tor second 8, and tor third
Mig elds tek 4 175.00 1; in case of tie for second, the points
Badminton......... 57.45 are 2 for each; for the relay the points
Boxing yy <th 40554. 37.85 are 9,6 and 3. Thus Helen Williams
MEPARD a + 0ad.5 b's 135.15 had the highest individual score with 13
——— 3265.90] points, Jean Gardner and Irene MatheGlee Club son were tied ror second place with 11
pGpénerals s.6c0 54. 370.97 points, and Gladys Jost and Ruth
BO Pine woes a2) 69.72 Crandall tied for third place with 5
lary Prope an oints.
and Asal ne awe 125.00 "i —_+-+-9——___
Choral Society...... 20.85 Gertrude Phinney, well known as an
586.54 athlete, and to us, also, as a violinist
 D.G.A.C. in the Dalhousie Symphony Orchestra,
_ Basketball......... 211.16 spent the summer on the continent.
Ice Hockey........- 82.75 She left for Acadia last week to take
Ground Hockey..... a a Household Science Course.
Pa ge 2.50
817.75
Wate: 0 Le dale ey tate es 900.00
lta Gamma
Beast AD oS. foie 3 ee
Girls Debating 909 25
Prenetale. eis. ose 269.59
ions... 40.50
peouse of Nat 910.09
Cash in bank, Sept. 16, 1930 270.95

Report Basketba

-|boys went through a stiff sesson of

‘Stirling.

7450.05

Wig ee
weet ry iat Ge
Mn ie
Vir 2 why

oh ee
ie

a a ae <5
aay

pects Good

With a turnout of over twenty-five
men, Dalhousie Senior Basketball squad
held their first workout or the season
on Monday evening at the Studley
Gym. With all of last year’s team back
again, it is expected that they will
form the nucleus oi this year’s varsity
quintette—Captain. Don McRae at
centre, Sam Fairstein and Harold
Davidson on the forward line, with
Charlie Anderson and Harry Handler
on the defense. Then there are all of
last year’s second forward line and
guards, some of whom no doubt will

et a regular position. Everything
ooks bright for a banner year for Dal.

Practices have started now and will
be held on Tuesday and Thursday at
noon and on Monday evenings. The
first few weeks will be spent in preliminary training, bringing the men
inte shape. A Hbies league will be
started in a couple of weeks. An extensive season is expected for the
quintette, with plenty of new and
promising material, including Duncan
McKenzie and Cliff Murray, formerly
with Acadia; Ernie Richardson, Murray Lloy and others.

C. P. Cunningham, former intercollegiate and pro basketball player,
was out to the practice and looked over
the team, giving them a few pointers.
At the conclusion of the practice, the

P. T. work under the direction of Mr.

Those attending the practice included Don McRae, Charlie Anderson.
Harry Handler, Harold Davidson, Alex
Nickerson, Hugh Kennedy, Gordon
McOdrum, Murray Lloy, Yale Brody,
Gordon Thompson, Bob Hatfield, Ken
Sullivan, Jimmy McIntosh, C. McDonald, B, Dublieur, Roy McDonald, B.
Stewart, D. Christie, W. F. Fraser,
J. McDonald, J. Benny, E. Murray.

The second practice was held on
Thursday noon with a picked turnout
of sixteen players, when a half hour
snappy workout was the order of play.

 

Girls Track Meet
Great Success

The Girls’ Interclass Track Meet
which was a great success was held last
Thursday, Oct. 28rd. The Sophomore
class was the only one not represented
at the Meet, although the Seniors had
orly one representative there. The
Freshettes had the highest aggregate
score with 30 points, the Juniors were
second with 17, the Seniors third with
13, and the Kings team fourth with 12
points. ae . |
The events were as follows: |
60 yd. dash, won by Helen Williams
731, 2nd Irene Matheson ’34, 3rd
Elizabcth Hood, Kings; time 7.4 sec.

-_ 100 yd. dash, wor by Helen Williams,
2nd Irene Matheson, 3rd Edith Allen

 

-|’32; time 18.2 sec.

aoe throw, won by Jean Gardner
32, 2nd Elizabeth Hood, 3rd Gladys
Jost’ 34;distance 80/11”.

Baseball throw, won by Jean Gard
 

    
   
   
  
   
  
   
    
    
  
  
  
   
  
  

D

: 7 rig Pepe] a wey ae ee e
tl A ed Rae ae il EE aes
Fayette is NOOR ay MOC en
i ies *y, wet yi j

’

Law

With the only score coming from a
long penalty kick in the opening period,
Freshmen defeated Law by a score of
three to nothing in a postponed game
of the Interfaculty Rugby League
played on Tuesday noon. Law forced
the way at the start of the first session,
reaching the Freshman five yard line
with matters looking bright for a score.
Then the Freshman scrum held, and
gradually forced their way back into
their opponents territory. The penalty
kick by Murray Lloy which resulted
in the Freshmen score came about the
middle of the period from the twentyfive yard line. In the same period,
Dunsworth was over the line for the
Freshman, but play was called back for
being offside.

In the second halr, play seesawed a
great deal. Freshmen had the wind
with them and were resorting to a
great deal of kicking for touch, all of
which gained valuable ground. The
scrum of both teams falling down and
the ball was only coming out in a few
instances. A number of free kicks for
both sides was the result,

Dunsworth, O’Brien and Sutherland
played well for Freshmen, while Jerry
Coleman and Donahoe were good for
Law.

Ab Smith, coach of the Senior team,
refereea,

Line up:—

Freshmen :— Fullback, Murray
Three quarters, Longley;, Dunsworth,
O'Brien; Halves—Hewatt, Crowdis
and Lloy; Forwards—Orr, Smith,
Sutherland, Ferguson, Elkin, Fe: guson

Law: Fullback—Matheson; Three
quarters—LeBrun, Cowan, Keating
and Green;Ha!ves—Rosenbloom, Donanoe, Coleman; Forwards—McDougall,
Haslam, Webber, Foley, Finalyson,
smith, Levy.

 

Engineering Notes

A Banquet of the Delta Tau Fraternity was held in the St. Julien Room of
the Halitax Hotel last Saturday evening Oct. 18. Many members were
present and the banquet proved a
great success. After the banquet new
officers were elected. Walter Bennet,
last years president was returned to
office. Ken Mahen was elected as vicepresident while J. T. Lang a Teck.
man was ¢lected Secty-Treas.

It may be noted with interest that
owing to the crowded condition of the
drafting room (thus showing the increase in new engineers) that it has
been found necessary to give the
Engineering Department another room
on the fourth floor of the Science
Building. Needless to ‘say Professors
Theakston and Copp are delighted.

There was a great scrummage in the
Drafting room the other day, in which
several hardy Engineers were injured.
On getting to the centre of the crowd
one found that it was just Paul Shepard
showing his picture of a ‘‘hectic’’ summer at Camp Borden.

The class of surveying 2 are once
more elected to make a survey of the
Dalhousie Campus. If you have any
parts which you would like to particularly have surveyed, leave your
orders with Joe Matheson or Ken
Purtell on Tuesday or Thursday
afternoon.

P. C. Hamilton of Eng. ’30 and last
years Secy.-Treas. of the Engineering
Society is now attending the N. S.
Technical College.

David Murray was reminded by
Prof. Copp in a mechanics lecture that
“ignorance is not always bliss’ or that
“absence of memory was not everything.”

 

 

LE

Exclusive Overcoats that will take a
becoming stand between
you and the weather

About Football
Awards

ae eee ee

It has been suggested that some more
permanent form of recognition than
that of a felt ‘‘D’’ is duethose who play
senior team football for Dal. The idea has
been considered for a long while by
those who are interested in the team
but it has never been carried into effect.
It was discussed at a meeting of the
executive of the D, A. A. C, last year
but they decided that they could do
nothing without the sanction of the
Council of the Students and the
question was consequently shelved for
a time, But it now seems an appropriate time for reconsideration of this
subject by those under whose category
it comes,

It has been suggested that those who
have played senior team football
should on graduation receive a gold
ring or pin of some appropriate design
signifying the purpose fer which it is
given. It has also been suggested that
a similar permanent ensignia be presented those who have played Ist team
basketball, track and hockey, but at
least it should be considered in football.

The service rendered the University
by each member of the senior team
really entitles them to something more
than a felt “‘D”,

What is each player giving to Dal?
Firstly he is giving at least 2 hours
per day from the opening of the term
till Thanksgiving in training and
practice, Secondly he is exposing
himself to some personal injury every
time he goes on the field. These
injuries are sometimes serious enough
to necessitate a lay-off from class work
which in more cases than one has been
responsible for the odd pluck, Thirdly
he is giving his best that Dal might have
a_ winning team in her major sport—
the sport which draws more of: the
student body than any other, which
requires the longest period of training,
the greatest sacrifice in time and self
and the foremost development in
physical and mental fitness.

What does Dalhousie do for him?
In the first place it is an honor to Dal
that she does nothing financially for her
football players. Yet how often it
seems that the only thing the player
gets is a pluck or more at Christmas or
may even be kicked out altogether,
Then again although it is claimed that
football gets the support of the student
body, how often it seems that the
player gets very little credit for what he
does on the field and very much discredit
for any little slip he might make.

Then again the team as a whole at
every game brings the name of Dalhousie before the public, and in games
with other colleges tend to bring the
student bodies of the respective colleges
in closer contact than could be accomplished in a dozen intercollegiate conventions. The trip of the football
team to the coast two years ago did
more for Dalhousie than many of us
realize. Not only did it bring the
name of Dalhousie before the people
of the centres they visited, but it also
showed what a mighty little atom we
were down here in our Little College by
the Sea.

Our football team is one of the best
investments Dalhousie holds and we
should confer some honor on those
who serve Dalhousie so faithfully on it.
A felt ““D” is quite appropriate for a
year’s service but for those, who have
not only won fame on the gridiron but
also have come through to secure a
parchment from Dalhousie, some permanent token of honor should be
awarded 'them.

In this connection it is also necessary
to consider the manager who so unselfishly gives his time and service in the
interests of Dalhousie,

Thus I would urge the immediate
consideration of this question by the
Council of the Students and feel that
it should receive the support of the
whole student body.

A.D. G,

 

 

Girls Sports

The turnout for girls Basketball this
yéar, has, so far, been extremely good.
About 65 girls signed the list to play
and at the first turnout, approximately

 

Statement prepared by:

‘ ie ce A. Goudge,
Secy-Treas. Council of the Students
Audited and found correct:

H. C. Morton,
Halifax, N. S., Sept. 26, 1930.

    
    
   
  
  
    

  

 

Arthur Jubien, Commerce 27, went
to Montr Tiasthweek, to take a position with Price Waterhouse Co.

_. Drummond be ti Arts 82, had a
_ position as sports instructor in Kenora,
he Butea. for several months of last

summer,

 

 

Ruth Macaulay, member of Class
82, spent Sy | eee f the aoe
_ beauty spot, Kedgemakooge, Queens
t a Be, in reality, assistant
to the manager, and was very success_fulin the york,
: Bi vt mee
A ne i a ny? Me 4 «, Roe Le ~ 1
ON

 

—

 

Col well B rothers Limited Barrington St.

OU will like the ‘“‘ High Hat ’’ feel

of our new Winter Overcoats...

so becomingly different to the coats
for many a season.

You will welcome the new Oxford
Greys and Pheasant Browns featured
here......and tailored in styles which
provide a dress distinction that’s exclusive and becoming.......combined
with their reasonable prices....you’ll
enjoy the whole Winter long the
coat you buy at.........

453-457

 

 

 

45 were at the gym ready for action.
Among these girls is to be found excellent material for an intercollegiate
team and the coach is certain that
there will be some very interesting and
exciting games this year.

It looks as tho the girls at the Hall
are planning to form a Polar Bear
Club. It will have quite a number of
charter members. Tout day this
week has seen at least four of the girls
and usually double that number, going
down to brave the cold waters of the
NOECE West Arm. Noone has drowned
yet!

Several of the girls motored home to
spend the weekend, Among the fortunate were May Anderson, Nelly
Brenton and Marg Murray. Helena
Bishop went home with Marg and
ae Nelson stayed in Stellarton with

eg.

Page Three |

Biology Club
Holds Meeting

The Biology Club held their initial
meeting of the year in the Anatomy
Lab, Forrest Building on Wednesday
evening. Earl Hiltz presided, with
abopt fifty members in attendance.
Dr. Elizabeth S. Bean was the special
speaker. She addressed the meeting
on the subject of “Heredity” stressing
the importance of serums in regard to
heredity. Dr. Hugh Bell spoke briefly
outlining the prospective field work of
the club for the year. The election of
officers which was scheduled for the
meeting was postponed until a later
date. At the conclusion of the meeting, refreshments were served,

 

to

w

rer TL
apa Lb

SODALIGHTFUL!
The keener you are

Cigarett es

—o
————_—_—_

20
for 25c¢

about the good things
in life, the more you

Vie ==, appreciate the delight
ful mildness and
flavour of Turrets.

TURRET

CIGARETTES

Mild and Fragrant

Co-eds !
F The

pe

TOBACCO co,
OA LIMITED

S
Can antes

oni

C

Save the valuable
“POKER HANDS”

Have you

visited

Where you will
find dainty
Lingerie
Hankies
Hosiery
and
Sports Wear

Shoppe

The Lord Nelson Hotel

The
Halifax Chronicle

‘AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The

fastest growing
newspapers in

Nova Scotia

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

 

 

| BIRKS

 

 

}
}

 

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax.

G. A. McDonald

TOBACONIST

Smokers Requisitee of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

21 Spring Garden Road

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.

More than two, 20 cents extra.

Covers up to six.

 

      

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
      
      
   
 
  
  
  
    
         
 
       
    
   
     
   
     
        
     
   
 
 

     
   

7 Wi olive on Saturday orl terminate ,
. fect ae Jost season with the
al ‘the Thanksgiving games

. ?

at, 7 THE PLAY.
mae
ro ie Dal won the tos and chose the East
re 1 the field. Hamilton of the
a s aadarers kicked off into the wind.
Art Sutherland caught the ball and
ran it back to centre. Dal scrum got
the ball out and Art repeatedly kicked
into touch ane long gains, Johnny
bY 3 “4 Dobson, P laying block quarter for
a ie the “Reds” was Aiiured when tackling
ss Maxwell. Play was resumed with
frequent scrummages. Heelers repeat>. edly” lifting their feet and Dal was
penalized. Stan Young took thekick,
al Besta 30 yds. Davidson returned
7" e kick into touch and both teams
settled down somewhat. The ball was
ta coming cleanly through the Dal end
Ys * 1 ‘of the scrum closely marked however.
" - Timmy Hunter, picking quarter of the
ee _ Wanderers team, grabbed loose ball
ie and by a series of runs Bev Piers
4 _ squirmed his way over the line for the
mar first try of the game. “Timmy”
Re . failed to convert. Woolner kicked
off and Dal hammered their way up to
4 e 5 yd line, but did not have the
ye ’ necessary push to get it over. Ed-_ wards relieved the situation with a nice
: “e punt which Connors returned, but Dal
- - was offside and scrummage took place
on Dal’s 40 yd. line. Piers kicked |
ay _ long and high but. Connors returned
2 Ri

 
 

 
 

i it with the longest punt of the game
-\ for a gain of ov yds, Art Fordham
___» now sustained a painful injury and had
fa ne Be retire from the game. The Dal
i rx forwards carried the ball with their

a > feet, working to the 5 yard line and
‘on Fe beet plugging for ten minutes with a
pes ‘ series of scrums but failed to score.
__ The period ended 3-0.

Second Period.

  

  

  

_ The period opened ‘with Wanderers

_ gamely playing with fourteen nien.
. - Woolner kicked off to the 15 yard line
Rae and Bob McCoy returned it. Wan_, derers now started an offensive which
' Dal could not stop. Findlay went
F over for the second try which Hunter

again failed to convert. Dal started
their big guns but did a great deal of
‘! fumbling which proved costly, the
- Red and Black team being on the alert
ty i‘ and a advantage of every break.
_ Dal was _ awarded a penalty when

yung Z passed off the ground but
kick fell short. McCoy

      
        
    
    
   
   
    
    
    
      
     
  
 
      

  

  

  

  

iers to go over f

ee converted,

ade ae ott to score, railed
axwell who started
ee day, Vance pare al
e thruout, tackling hard
ing, Me effective. The ball
tiie ‘hompson on the wing who
eluded tackling to go over for Dal’s
Se ‘only score, The Tigers were awarded |
a number of penalty kicks but did not
bi Tk keep the advantage, Wanderer’s scrum
| now took control of the ball and used
_. their backfield for substantial gains.
. * The tackling of the Tiger backfield
ee. t was very erratic, sometimes one man
_ , would be trying to mark three. Mak‘ing their last bid for a score the Gold
{. and black squad advanced to Wanderer’s five yard line but once again Bobby
McCoy came thru with a long punt.
. Play ended at centre field, but Dal
had snapped into it too late. “Jimmy”
_ Allen once again put on his Rugby
_ shoes, after a retirement of several
_ years and refereed to the satisfaction

     
      
 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
     
    
       
       
     
       
      
 
 
   
      
      
       
 

  

  

yr

  

  

  

  

  

   

  

   
 

Dal line-up.—
Forwards,—Cooper, Stewart, Murray, Woolner, Baird, McRae, Townsend,
Halves,—Maxwell, <A. Sutherland
ean .), Davidson,

ree qi ices ,—D. Thompson, H.
Sutherland, Buckley, Drover.
Fullbac k—H. Connors.

 
 

    
 
      
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  

  

  

the pret- |.

in Interfaculty
Track Meet.

Ort Hewat is High Scorer

History repeated itself this year on
Munro day there being a decided
aqueous preciptitation in consequence
of which the scheduled Interfacult

Track Meet had to be postponed.

However the events were run off on
Tuesday and Thursday of the past
week during noon hours and inspite of
rather chilly weather some very good

showings were made.

The results of Tuesday’s events were

as follows:
100 yard dash.

lst—Orton Hewat (Commerce).

2nd—Doug Seeley (Commerce).

8rd—Murray Zinck (Commerce).
Time: 10 3/5”.

1 mile run.

1lst—Orton Hewat (Commerce).

2nd—H, Magonet (A. & Sc.).

8rd—R. Miller (Commerce).
Time: 2’/13 3/5

16 lb. Shot Put.

lst—Coll Stewart (Law).

2nd—L. MacDonald (A. & Sc.).

Xrd—Murray Zinck (Commerce),
Dist.: 38ft. 10% in.

Hammer Throw.
Ist—L. MacDonald (A & Sc.).
2nd—Gerald Tanton (Med.).
3srd—Coll Stewart (Law).
Dist.: 74 ft. 1 in.
Pole Vault.

entry for
very good

E. Ebers was the only
this event and made a

showing, establishing a new record of

9 ft. 4 inches.

The results of Thursday’s events
were:

220 yards dash.

lst—Murray Lloy.

2nd—Orton Hewat (Commerce).

8rd—Murray Zinck (Commerce).
Time: 24 secs.

4 Mile Run.

~Ist—H. Magonet (A & Sc.).

2nd—Orton Hewat (Commerce).
3rd—Muriay Lloy.
7 Time: 55 secs.

1 mile run.
1st—M. A. Miller,
2nd—B. Rogers.
3rd—H. Maisden.
Time: 5 mins. 19 1/5 secs,

Running Hop Step and Jump.

lst—Bob Brown—36 feet.
2nd—Charles Tapley.
3rd—H. Magonet (A. & Sc.).

Kicking Football.
lst—Don MacRae (Med.) 141 ft 1 in.
2nd—Don Thompson (Med).
3rd—T, Goudge.

High Jump.
Ist—Bob Brown—4 ft. 11 in.

hibition jump—5ft. 14 inch).
2nd—Charles Tapley.

(ex

Ort. Hewat, 16, (Commerce).
B. Brown, 10. (Commerce)
H. Magonet, 9, (A. & Sc.).
L. MacDonald, 8, (A. & Sc.).
C. Tapley, 6, (Arts).

Coll Stewart, 6, (Law).
Murray Lloy, 6, (Arts).

E. Ebers, 5, (A. & Sc.).

D. MacRae, 5, (Med.).

M. A. Miller, 5, (Engineering).
D. Seeley, 3, (Commerce).
M. Zinck, 3, (Commerce).

G. Tanton, 3, (Med).

D. Thompson, 3, (Med).

B. Rogers, 3.

R. Miller, 1, (Commerce.)
T. Goudge, 1. (Arts).

H. Marsden, 1. (Arts).

 

Society Notes.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

‘Commerce Leads| Give the Advertisers a

Square D Deal.

This year, on Vom soliciting advertising, both for the Gazette and the
Freshman Hand-book, several of
Dalhousie’s former advertisers informed that they were through
advertising in Dalhousie publications. Others said that if the
returns from such advertising did
not increase, their adds would be
removed also. Those who have
had any connection with selling
advertising for the college can
readily understand what this
means.

There may be many students,
however, who do not know that this
is a serious thing. It means that
each year, if things continue along
the same lines the positions of
Business Manager of the Gazette
and the Year Book will become harer and harder. So please read the
advertisements in the Gazette and
in the Year Book and on the various
programs during the year and
patronize the advertisers who patronize you. It will be for everybody’s good, yours, the advertisers
and the Business Managers. When
you buy anything from one of our
advertisers mention that you are
from Dalhousie. This will help us
immensely. The more ads which
appear in all papers, the more
money can be spent making the
paper a better one.

So please bear this in mind and
for the good of all concerned during
the year PATRONIZE THE ADVERTISERS. WITHOUT WHOM
THERE WOULD BE NO GAZETTE.
NO YEAR BOOK AND NO PROGRAMMES.

J. ROBERT DONAHOE,
Business Manager

 

HELEN WILLIAMS

Leather Goods

Portfolios and Loose
Leaf Books, Bags and
Trunks of all kinds

aren SIeee: fei fd ee

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

DRUGS

STUDENTS SUPPLIES

MacLeod-Balcom, Ltd

CHEMISTS

Sport Briefs

The Freshmen must learn that
tardiness won’t be tolerated in Dalhousie interfaculty sport. Only having
nine men on the field to start the game
against the Arts squad in the recent
Interfaculty fixture proved costly.

Bill Wickwire, Capt. Dal. Tigers ’28,
has been seen at Studley this week
watching the practice sessions, They
just can’t resist the urge to get their

ands on the old ball.

Boxing and Basketball are getting
under way early this year, the latter
squad having had their first work out
last Thursday. Here’s hoping that
they get the Championship this time
and not just a near victory.

 

 

It is learned with regret that Cliff
Murray, former Acadia rugby and
basketball star and now registered at
Dalhousie, recently underwent an oper
 

 

ation for appendicitis.
Dunc. McKenzie, also a former
Acadia basketball star, is now a Dal
housian, a welcome addition to any
team,

Atthe Theatres

GARRICK.

Billie Dove Heads Splendid Cast
With Clive Brook, Sidney Blackmer
and Leila Hyams.

 

 

“Sweethearts and Wives,’’ the First
National and Vitaphone production
which opens Friday at the Garrick
Theatre is a dramatic mystery with a
French locale.

The entire play is laid in a_ little

forsaken inn near LeTouquet in the
south of France. It concerns the
search and recovery of a diamond
necklace that was stolen. This necklace is the final link in a divorce case.
The winning and losing of the case
depends upon who finds the necklace.

A French maid, played by Billie
Dove, the star of the picture, an
English divorcee detective, played by
Clive Brook, two crooks, and an

English nobleman are all on its trail.

GOOD EQUIPMENT
For Good Athletes

Those who demand the
best in Sporting Equipment unanimously agree
that our goods cannot be
surpass

 

GARRICK

WED. and THURS.

MORAN & MACK

(The Two Black Crows)

“Anybody’s War’

FRI. and SAT.

BILLIE DOVE

‘Sweethearts and Wives’

Next MON. and TUES.
‘THE BIG HOUSE”’

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

MED. SOCIETY MEETING.

The third meeting of the society for
this term was held in the Public Health
Clinic on the evening of Thursday,
Oct. 28rd. John Budd gave a report
on the coming Medical Dance and
requested the support of the students.
Much time was given to the discussion
of a proposed resolution to be taken

October 29th, 1930

up with the Committee on Studies and
after a few minor changes it was give
the wholehearted support of the meeting. Following the discussion of business, Arthur W. Ross of the 5th year
class read a paper on Pelvic Cellulitis.
This was very much appreciated by
the society and Mr. Ress was tendered
a hearty vote of thanks.

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.

Write °r call for Calendar or advice.

The

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

New -
Fal] Society Brand

styles are advanced, correct and
distinguished. The woolens are

rich, strong and exclusive.

The

workmanship is the last word in
quality and expertness,

and in
cludes exclusive tailoring features
like the SNUG-EASE SHOULDER
and the VAC BLOC ARMHOLE

You obtain greater value for your dollar in Society
Brand Clothes than in any other make we know of

Winter - Burns, Ltd

439 BARRINGTON STREET.
—TIts the cut of your clothes thai counis—

        
   
   
     
        
       

5 CENTS THE COPY

      
 

 

The Discriminating Reader
BUYS

... THE...
HALIFAX SUNDAY
GRAPHIC

Because There He Finds the Latest in News
and Features
Watch for reports of Football Games
in our late Saturday edition

 

 

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons
or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

At all recognised Newstands

  
 

The Sigma Theta Pi Society held a
very enjoyable treasure hunt on Saturday night Oct. 18th to which a large
number of guests were invited. After
an exciting evening spent in following
up the widely scattered clues, the
party returned to Ruth Macauley!s
and passed the rest of the evening
dancing.

CASINO

WEEK OF NOV. 3td.
Mon.-Tues.-Wed.

ERNEST LUBITSCH’S
Brilliant Romance

“MONTE

OPPOSITE

Bank of ‘Nova Scotia

AND

St. Andrew’s Church

     
   
      
     
   
 
   
   
   
    
          
     
    
      

| THE
GRIDIRON
Once again the Dal Cubs came thru
to win the title of their section of the
Intermediate league by holding the

Wandere1’s seconds to a scoreless draw.
King’s next!

Students !

The next time you want
your laundry finished in
ahurry and want it done
neatly—call the

Home Laundry

32 BILBY ST. Phone L2331

  

 

 

    
         
   
 
 

a All credit is due to the Wanderer’s
_ for yesterday’s victory. They played
2 champions—and won.

Footwear For Men

$Z.0O

They set the pace for style and quality within their
price and any man can find shoes to please him
under the Birkdale name. - - - 
 
 

Dalhousie will meet Acadia

Wolfville on Saturday.

i Mh The B Baptists, are ou are out for revenge
ME dal _ and a good tussle is assumed.

at

-PERMANENT WAVE
Ringlets Ends $10.00

Regular $15.00 wave for $10.00
on the ‘‘Keen’’ machine
which recently won major
honors at Philadelphia against

       
     
         
     
     

       
 
     
         
          
      
 

We understand that ticket sellers
ig and Ngee are unknown qualities

he Acadians, so let’s go.

A Change Is Good

)
:
:
;
4

 
  

 

  

19 ,
a Art Fordham, who was seriously C A R L O the world’s best. No better For Everybody The range includes boots and Oxfords in black and brown calf or kid
dl ia ine ot the a ba ke ball bisis.s ee os oe ee Marcel- ar] leathers in blutcher or balmoral styles. Our new fall stock arrived
: ioe ys He a ‘i ss JACK BUCHANAN ra ee Waving and Bob. Why ndt almieal $r recen‘ly, and there are many (styles to choose from. Birkdales are all

JEANETTE McDONALD
Thur.-Fri.-Sat.

ANN HARDIN G
‘Girl of the Golden West’

solid leather—a feature seldom found in footwear at this price.
of leather or rubber heels. Sizes 54 to 11. : ;

Eatons—Second Floor.

¢T. EATON

TIMES

Choice

Cores

several seaso
focad by the “Redshirts” for the

rest of the year at le at least. -. lunch at the «.

GREEN LANTERN

occasionally? wa

Shield’s Beauty Parlor

510 ROY BUILDING
PHONE B.6748

       
        

Jal’s football senso season will terminate
games at Caledonia during

i Saas week-end,

Dele at

And a Mang go. the clested shoes for iil

  

    

The Green Lantern

   

 
