  
 

<— TE

eee Oe a
s 5 Vhs.

_ *
" ar,
7 a
iat pe

  

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, hiisiad legis co Ist, 1934.

 

a (Dr Atlee In
- Lecture On
_ Capitalism

One of Oe most enlightening lectures I ever attended was that delivered
by Dr, Benje Atlee on Friday evening
last. He will continue the series this
Friday at 7.15 p,m. at the Forrest
Building. All men students are welcome.

 

The Pri fit bckive.

Dr. Atlee reviewed briefly the
Feudal system and the Industrial
. Revolution and then went into a discussion on Capitalism. He pointed out
that the only legitimate motive of the
Capitalist was to makea profit. Profit is the constant and absolutely necessary requirement for the success of any
business whether it has the ulterior
motive of service or not. 3
There are three: ways in which surplus profit may be used. It can be reinvested in the business; it can be invested in other business enterprises; or
it can be paid back to the wage earners
in- the form of increased salaries. The
latter is practically never done because
profits can continue only when the cost
of production is kept down, and profitsthe naprhtiat must have, or go broke.

‘

‘The Mellon Fortune ‘

Mellon fortune was taken as a
of how a capitalist
sh is pr fit. Phe Mellon fortune was
begun by profits accuring from baking
- operations in Pittsburg. These profits
were invested in a wide variety of industries such as aluminium, oil, steel,
radioand railways. Allthistime wages
were kept to the minimun: and any attempt by labor to raise them was ruthlessly suppressed. Then Melon became Secretary of the Treasury of
United States and while in office succeeded in having the death and inheritance taxes on large fortunes cut in half,
and practically every cent of the war
profiteering taxes returned,

4 The

  

A Plutocracy.

Five percent of the population in
U.S. A. now own eighty percent of the
wealth of the country! They control
and absolutely dominate the means of
financing and production in America.
If they say no their client can look for
credit from one end of the country to
the other and in Canada too and he will
not getit.» Three families, the Morgans
the Rockefellers and the Mellons control
about 30% of the business carried on
in U.S.A. In Canada the four largest
banks, the C. P. R. and the two strongest insurance companies are in the position of dictators in the business world.
And ‘tis said, I believe, that a half
dozen men on James Street can bring
the Dominion government to its knees!

The Reason Why.

What brought about the present
impasse in trade and commerce? The
Industrial Revolution gave England the
head start. She supported machinery,
producers goods, to other countries.
The latter couldn’t compete in an open

market with British products so they
built up tariff walls. England had to
look for other markets which she found
in undeveloped countries which she an
nexed as colonies; other advanced in-_|

dustrial nations followed suit. In the
meantime wages were so low in these
industrial countries that millions em‘migrated to other less developed lands.
_ The outcome of all this was the growth
of intense national jealousy, rivalry
and mutual distrust. Finally, exploit
ed countries have caught up with others
and the expansion of markets has been
brought to a halt. But capitalism can
only » work successfully when markets
“are expanding. When the market be_ comes saturated its no use to put the|
" eens on Page 2.)

    
   
 
   
    
  

‘here andat Acadia.

Dental Society
Holds Smoker

Dalhousie Dental Society held a
largely attended smoker Friday night,
under chairmanship of James McLeod,
Port Hastings.

Addresses featured the meeting. Dr.
N. B. Dreyer, professor of Pharmacology at the Medical School talked on
alcohol, and Dr. W. W. Woodbury,
professor of Crthodontia at the Dental |
Schoo! discussed appreciation of books,
Dr. Edward Cavanagh, '32 graduate
of the Dental School, now practising in
St. John’s, Nfld. spoke briefly, and
musical entertainment was provided
by Messrs. Dissick, Figman, Sloane.

The committee which arranged the
smoker included J. Campbell, H. M.
Brody, S. Kirschenbaum and Robert
Barrie.

Offers Prize For

Juniors, Seniors

 

As announced on the bulletin boards,
Dr. Wm, Inglis Morse is again offering
a prize of $100 to the student who submits the best essay on the subject
“Poetry as an Interpretation. of Life.’’
This competition is open to all juniors
and seniors in the Arts Faculty of Dalhousie and essays must be handed in
not later than April 16. Those interested would be advised to get in
touch immediately with Prof. Bennett,
who will be able to suggest a suitable
length and material.

Dr. Morse, who is well known here
and at Acadia for his gifts, is sponsoring the essay to arouse more student
interests in essay writing. Last year,
the first in which he offered the prize,
Miss Eirene Walker was the successful
candidate, on the subject of ‘Real vs.
Living Books,”

Apart from the honor of winning, and
the substantial prize (a summer's wages
to the fortunate who obtain jobs) Dr.
Morse is carefully watching student life
Needless to say,
Dalhousians would not want him toever
feel that the students of the latter college are better, or more interested than
ourselves in literary studies. Since the
Acadia students will be writing on the
same subject, for an equal prize, it is

to be hoped the Dalhousie submissions |

will be superior in quality and quantity,
the more so since it is to Dalhousie’s
gain that he be given a solid basis of
faith in this institution. Well written
essays can make him see that his gifts
here (his collection is always open to
inspection or permission from the President’s secretary) were not useless.

The text of the announcement follows:

THE WILLIAM INGLIS MORSE
ESSAY COMPETITION

**Poetry as an Inter; etation of Life’’

Competitors for the William Inglis
Morse Prize of $100.00 for an essay
on the above subject are reminded that
the essays are to be handed in at the
University Office or to Professor Bennett not later than Monday, April 16.

Essays should be in type-script and
should be identified with a pseudonym
and accompanied by a sealed envelope
containing the candidate’s name and
inscribed with the pseudonym.

For the Committee of Award.
C. L. BENNET.
Saenid bixtheeeinnr gba

The editors have received a
**scathing’’ lettery urp orting to
come from the committee of
the Millionaires— Boilermakers Ball, but unsigned. If the
author of the letter will send
his name in to the Gazette office, the editors will consider
its publication over the name
of the writer.

 

New Bank
Head Heard
By Students

The job of launching a Central Bank
will become the duty of each and every
Canadian interested in finance, and our
Central Bank will be a creation instead
of agrowth, asit has been insome of the
‘European countries. Such was the

’| opinion expressed by J. A. McLeod,

the new President of the Bank of Nova
Scotia, in an address on “‘A Central
Bank,” delivered to a large group of
Dalhousie students in the Chemistry
Theatre, last Wednesday evening.
The address was held under the auspices of the Dalhousie Commerce Society, and the speaker was introduced
by Hector McInnis, Chairman of the
Dalhousie Board of Governors.

Mr. McLeod declared that we Canadians must learn how to handle the
business of a Central Bank through
experience, and these handling the affairs of the Bank will be liable to make
many errors during the first tew years
of it’s existence. The speaker read extensively from the McMillan Report
on the need for a Central Bank in Canada, and told of the manner in which
Central Banks carry on their business
affairs-in England, France, and the
United States, as well as a number of
other European countries.

Not all the Central Banks in the
World are functioning efficiently at
the present time despite the fact that
most of them: have had years of experience behind them. The Central
Banks of France, Sweden and Germany
have often been in serious difficulties
in the past few years and have not always carried on their business in the
best possible manner.

The Federal Reserve Banking System in the United States, that is really
a type of Central Bank, has not always
functioned efficiently, the speaker pointed out. Many of the Central Banks in
European nations grew up with the
countries and were not artifically planned, but the opposite is true of the Federal Reserve System in the States, and
also some of the Central Banks in the
smaller European nations. One of the
difficulties of setting up a Central Bank
is that the money market is not developed in our country as it is in the
United States, or Great Britain. However, Mr. McLeod declared, this difficulty could be overcome easily. He
stated that London gives us an excellant example of cooperation between
the Central Bank and the other banks
and money houses in the country, however such cooperation could not be expected to appear in Canada for some
years tocome. The greatest difficulty
he stated willsbe in getting competent
managers for the Central Bank.

Following Mr. McLeod’s address
Dr. C. W. Stanley, President of the
University, heartily thanked the speaker for his very,instructive address on
behalf of the students. Prof. J. M.
MacDonald, Head of the Commerce
Department, and John W, Fisher,
President of the Commerce Society
also spoke briefly.

 

Sorority Party

Sigma Theta Pi Sorority entertained
last Monday evening at Margaret
Montgomerie’s in honor of their pledges.

To be quite prosaic and banal I'll
say ‘“‘A good time was had by all;”
among those present were Harry Sutherland, etc.

However, everyone did enjoy the
chocolate cake and ham sandwiches.

True to form the: Hall girls left early
and the party broke up shortly afterwards.

7th were made.

Coming Events

Of The Week

 

Feb. Ist — Sodales: Harvard
Trials. ‘‘Resolved Hitlerism
is a benefit to German People.’’

Feb. 2nd—Lecture in Gym.
Dr. H. C. Bigelow: ‘‘The Twilight Zone of Matter.’’

Feb. 3rd—Senior Basketball,
Dalhousie vs. Y. M. C. A. at
yo MS Gs Ax

Feb. 5th—Glee
Mins rel show.
8.15 for Public.

Feb. 6th—Interfaculty Hockey
Arts vs. Law. Forum 6-7.

Feb. 6th —Final Bennett Shield
Debate. Juniors vs. Freshmen
‘*Resolved life in the country
has greater opportunities for
happiness than life in the city.”’
Room 3 Arts Bldg. 12 »’clock.

Feb. 6th—Glee Club Minstrel
show for students. Gymnasium 8.15.

Feb. 7th—Boxing
ling Workout,
8 o’clock.

Club Presents
Gymnasium

and WrestGymnasium

Feb. 7th—Hygiene Lecture,
Chem. Theatre 2.30 for women
only.

Glee Club Offers
Pleasing Show

 

An evening of exceptionally good entertainment was offered by the Glee
Club last Friday night to a large crowd
of students and outsiders. The program opened with some’ snappy dance
tunes by Jerry Naugler and orchestra
and tap dancing by Ruth Skaling.
The skilful lighting effects and stage
setting gave the performance quite a
professional touch. An amusing skit
by Ralph Hardrick and Art Long followed and many, while they enjoyed
the humor, regretted that Mr. Long
didn’t sing a little something in his
natural voice.

During a slight intermission which
enstied, the Club President, Jim Gray
spoke to the audience requesting more
active support from the student body
not only in attending the performances

but in offering assistance in their pro- |

duction both behind the scenes and
before.

Tne Newman Club play “Thank You,
Doctor’ was well received by the audience which reached the height ot its
enthusiasm when the action grew fast
and a tussle was enacted over the chairs
of the set. The play was followed by
harmony from the Men’s Quartette
and Wayne McKie in the “Old Spinning Wheel’ and ‘‘Dalhousie Co-ed,’

the most recent composition of Don] gions.

Murray a Dal graduate.

The closing item of the program was
a Luminous Tap Dance by the lightfooted Messrs. Holland and Rowley
and here again attention was drawn to
the merit of the costume and lighting
effects.

 

   
 

No. 14

Juniors Defeat Senior In

Bennett Shield Debate

Mt. A. Prof. Will

Give Lecture

 

The subject of the lecture to be given
next Friday evening in the Dalhousie
gymnasium is “‘The Twilight Zone of
Matter,’’ and the lecture promises to
be a very interesting one. Ever since
the subject of evolution came to the
fore, scientists have been interested
in the fringe between the living and the
non-living world. Professor Pelluet,
in her recent lecture, glanced at this
matter from the point of view of the
biologist. This week the matter will
come up again from the point of view
of chemistry.

The lecture will be given by Professor H. E. Bigelow, Head of the Chemistry Department in Mount - Allison
University. Professor Bigelow is well
known throughout Canada as an able
student and teacher of chemistry. For
a while he was a professor in Brown
University, Providence, Rhode Island,
and a ‘career of distinction was open to
him there—as the Dean of Brown University recently said. A Nova Scotian
by birth, Professor Bigelow preferred
to return and teach in Canada.

The lecture will be keenly interesting not only to avowed students of
science, but to the general public.

——_——————

BALLOON DEBATE

 

The Public Speaking and _ Parliamentary Procedure Club of Dalhousie
staged a novel entertainment Thursday
Jan. 25, in the form of a Balloon Debate, in which the speakers defended
prominent public men.

Eric Murray was the chairman and
after the speeches friendly criticism
was offered by the members who had
not participated. The speakers were

Wilfred Burchell—Hon. E. N. Rhodes;
Robert -McLellan—Dean Smith; William Armstrong—‘‘Red’’ Payne; D.
B. Sutherland—Premier R. B. Bennett;
Ian McKeigan—Fred Wigmore; Dan
Harvey—Prof. H. L. Stewart; Doug
Crease—Prot. C. L. Bennett; Morris
Clennett—Bob McFarlane.

U. nO Notes

The first King’s dance of the term
was held last Thursday in the combined Haliburton and Faculty rooms of
the residence. The  nicely-arranged
decorations of red and white streamers
made the rooms warm and attractive,
, and an array of lounges and easy chairs
provided comfort for the intermisThe dancing commenced at
9 o'clock, and Jerry Naugler and his
orchestra kept the.couples happy until
the last waltz at 1.15 a. m.

The committee has been congratulated on its efficient work for the evening.

Mrs.

 

A. S. Walker and Miss M.

The remaining hour of the evening | Vroom very kindly acted as chaperones

was spent in dancing and everyone
agreed that the production was the most
finished and sophisticated one seen on
the Dal stage in some time.

|

NEWMAN CLUB MEETING.

The monthly meeting was held on

Sunday, January 28th. The report on

the One Act Play ‘‘Thank You, Doctor’ was submitted, and plans for an
informal dance to be held on February
The President, Mr.
Edward Byrne, was in the chair.
After the business meeting, Mr. W. P.
Buckley gave a very interesting talk
on “Ireland”, which was much appreciated. by the members.

for this dance.

The King’s College hockey team defeated the team from Phi Kappa Pi
on Sunday January 28, by the score of
6-1.

Miss Kay Tilton of Saint John is a
guest at Alexandra Hall for a few days.

Mr. Don. Doyle 33 was a visitor at

Well, it looks as if the female members of this University had better follow the lead of Marlene Dietrich in the
matter of wearing apparel, if the decision reached at the Bennett Shield
Debate held in the Arts Building last
Thursday morning carrizs any weight.
The Resolution was “Resolved that
women’s styles are more sensible than
men’s,’ and the negative side of the
question supported by the repr2s:ntatives of the Junior Class won, by virt 12
ot a 2 to 1 vote of the judges.

The first speaker. for the affirmative
side of the question, was Freeman
Stewart, representing the Senior Class
Mr. Stewart declared that the three
requirements of clothing were for decoration, modesty, and _ protection.
Clothes add grace and beauty to the
human form, since they conceal our
defects and enchance our good features
and in this respect the females decorate
themselves much more beautifully
than mendo. Also he said, it must not
be forgotten that men’s clothing is very
uncomfortable in many cases and often
to constrict his movements.

Edward Arab, the leader for the
negative, stated that the most important purpose of clothing is usefulness,
and only styles that are useful can be
considered sensible. Therefore -those
articles of clothing that only decorate
the body can not be looked upon as
sensible, and women's clothings calls
into this category more often than
men’s clothing does. The great cost
of women’s clothing, and the fact their
styles of clothing are often injurious
to the health were two more arguments
Mr. Arab advanced

Ruth Crandall, the concluding speaker for the affirmative, pointed out that
statistics prove that a far greater percentage of men contract tuberculosis
than women. She also declared that
the clothing worn by women has a
greater individuality than that worn
by men, since all men wear clothing
more or less similar in design. She also
said that women can more easily adapt
their clothing to changes of weather,
and that women’s clothing gives them
more freedom of movem:2nt than men’s
does.

Florence Keniston, the final sp:aker
for the negative, stated that clothing
is to be worn for comfort as w2ll as for
decoration, also expenseis a very important factor in clothing. Women’s
clothes are far more expensive than
men’s, due to the fact that women need
far more clothing of different varieties
than men do, and also to the fac
women’s styles change so often. As
far ascomfort is concerned men’s clothing has a big edge in this respect, the
speaker stated.

While the judges were conferring
upon their decision, Howard Oxley,
who acted as Chairman of the Debate,
announced that a Harvard Team would
debate here on March 2nd., taking
the affirmative of the resolution “‘Resolved that Hitlerism is a benefit to the
German people.” The Judges of the
Debate were Professors Pearson, J. M.
MacDonald, and C. H. Mercer.

ee

NEWMAN CLUB NEWS

There will be a Newman Club meeting Sunday Feb. 4th. at the K of C
Hall, Hollis St., at 3 o’clock sharp.
A resolution will be introduced to the
effect ‘‘That the Newman should be
Abolished.” A lively discussion , is
anticipated on this subject, all Newman
Club members should make a special
effort.to attend.

The Club will hold a party on Wednesday Feb. 7th. Details can be had
from your faculty representative.

, the Residence for the past week-end. | Lhis dance will be limited to 50 couples,

 

 

 
   

     

| EDITORIAL STAFF.

we a é - Editors.

W. H. ets B. A.
~ B.

Associates. ie

Borden Stoddard.
. L. Dubinsky.
. W. Burchell

Sg , hy ee
NEWS DEPARTMENT.
oe EDITOR Hany SU SUTHERLAND, B5487.
2 cia glas C James MacIntosh.

  

ES Dou
ta Arthur Merkel. E. Arab.
Ba, a gets oe SPORTS.
a -EDITOR—TED CREASE, B5737.
ES eso Associates: Donald B, Cameron.
ee Tat Megs, = ‘Ruth Skaling.
Rata chet arccy A GIRLS EDITOR: MARTHA KENISTON.
_- Associates: Mary Simmonds.
he ee ae Merle Purtill.
BE ro: Breas BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.

   

Pm.

a : Circulati A ssistua? Manager
et ‘DAVID. SE ano C.RMACDONALD. HOWARD aC. 03 OXLEY, BA.
ae

 
  
 

3

ss WHITHER ARE WE DRIFTING?

   
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
    
     
 
   

LATE DANCES

We have seen many institutions lose
the policy of laissez-faire in government
with the plaudits of the multitude, and
now Dalhousie too is having its own
little N. R. A. For our part we are
glad that the President has seen fit to
curtail unrestricted dancing hours.
Although some claim it to be an infringement of individual liberty, yet
one is reminded of Burke's remarks:
before one isallowed to do as he pleases
it should be well to see first what it pleases
him todo. Weare not by anv means

in favour of a barren asceticism; indeed,

dancing is one of the greatest pleasures
and deserves to be encouraged. But
there are times when an indulgence becomes a weakness and recreation a
business. Dancing for three or four
hours a week should be encouraged,
but dancing several nights a week for
six or seven hours, especially when
many of the hours follow midnight, is
an abuse.

The question may be raised, why restrict the girls late leaves without cutting the male students’ hours as well.
There are two obvious reasons for this.
First, though it is usually the same set

‘The recettt action of Presidesit Stanley in intervening to put| of “it” girls who attend all the dances,

an he to late dances for Shirreff Hall girls, and in banning the use| the male attendance varies. The girls

3 et hotel rooms for college dances, appears to have come in for a|have only to donate their pleasing

er _ share of criticism in some circles. With the extent of the criticism, | smiles, gracious forms, and regulation

= eS: which may not be so widespread as its sponsors would have us be-|‘‘line’’, which are apparently inexF sary, lieve, we are little concerned. The questions at issue are the pro- aketile: The boys, on the contrary,

_ priety of the President in making such a move and whether his ac- tion was justified.
-_ It will hardly be denied that President Stanley has a definite
responsibility in the matter, and that the welfare of the students is,
~and should be, one of his chief concerns. No one can therefore
question his right to interfere where he believes he is acting in the
best interests of his charges, and we submit the best judge of what
= are those interests is the President himself, in whom the ultimate
Sabet _ responsibility. rests. He has not shirked that responsibility. His
= atest action in curbing what might easily lead to immorality and
-immoderateness_ should be concurred i in by right thinking students
eat she University. _
Dalhousie dances are fast approaching a stage which is carrylem beyood the bounds of decency and propriety. This year
intoxicating liquor—both among men and women
_ particularly noticeable at all the faculty
downtown hotels, and this constitutes a situation
one 5e allowed to continue. Any step which tends
abo outa remedy for tl this disgraceful condition cannot but
_ Such a step is the banning of the engagement of rooms
s. The use of rooms is an encouragement to drinking,
W rhat is far worse, to s bluntly, an encouragement to imality. There may possibly be those among us who have no ulterior motive in seeking rooms at a dance, and who regard them as
_ convenient places to hang their hats and coats, but the hotels
‘ ally provide an excellent service in this respect at a much lower

   
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
    
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
    
    
  
  

=H ; It is said that, with respect to the action of the President in
cane a time limit on Shirreff Hall girls, his first ultimatum was
that t aren should leave the Commerce-Engineering dance at 12.30
a Res a. m., but that helater revised the time to 20’clock. 12.30 may be
alittle early to end a dance, but20’clock certainlyis not. King’s
= _ dances, strictly under the su ape tens of the authorities, up to this
year never went beyond 30 a.m. This year the limit is 1
o'clock, and King’ s dances are usually quite enjoyable affairs.
: Why Shirreff Hall girls in the circumstances cannot enjoy themselves
_ ata dance which runs from 9 o’clock till 2 is inconceivable.

It may be said that this article ‘is too frank a description, and
oe revealing an exposure, of conditions at our college dances, but
t is time that the facts were faced and that the situation were
; remedied. If publicity will bring that about, the means will unubtedly be justified by the end attained. And the President,

: in is efforts to promote the welfare of the students, will continue

have ( the muayelthed support of this publication.

  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
    
      

_ 5 Element Work Considered
a By Students

to do pioneering social work and is
careful not to compete with other organizations which are working in the
same district. In Montreal the idea
of baby clincs and milk stations was
first introduced by the University
Settlement House. Clubs are the most
characteristic features of Settlement

 

    

oe Mrs. F. H. Sexton

res s to Dalhousie students at a]
wide tiee auspices of the Soy ‘Club. The subject was of
| rest in view of the fact that

  

   
    

  

    

 
 

      
    
 

    

     
   

  

t the possibilities of carrying on
distinctively Dalhousian social
“Mal al one of the a needy sec
enrichment of life brings, these people
together in groups having common interests. Classes are held in plain sewing, dramatics, boxing, wrestling, cookJing, hobbies, etc. Lending libraries
jand kindergarten work are often a
part of the Settlement House program.
According torecent surveys, who have
se | been in these institutions show in later
| life, character and ability which reis flects creditably upon the work being
suse is} carried on by Universities in this field,
)por- We hope that students and faculty

} a epnete the ang: to establish a

          
     
    
   
    
  
    
  
  
  
  
    
    
   
   
   
   
   

a
+

ner ee Kee
ee Sg) eR ng |

activity. A desire for friendship and]

have to go deeper in providing the finances, and, apart from a few exceptional cases, can only attend a limited
number of dances. Secondly, it is
harder to restrict the male student, but
since on the average he takes a Hall girl,
when she must be in at a certain time,
he must naturally accompany her.

Unless the students wish to indulge
in a series of ‘‘Roman Scandals,”’ there
is little reason why a dance should continue until the early hours of the morning. A dance which lasts from § to
12 or 12.30 could be made as enoyable
as one from 9.30 to2 or 3 o'clock, and
the morning after would be a big improvement. Accordingly, though the
President may be condemned in some
quarters, the average thinking student
will applaud him for his action. Certainly interested parents willrise up and
call him blessed.

 

Oar True Story

Once upon a time a little girl named
Sinderella lived in a small town and
there she had a very happy childhood.
She was a dear little girl with rose petal
cheeks and curly golden locks, so all
her boy playmates loved her and all her
girl playmates hated her. Twelve
years she grew in sun and shower until
she graduated from the village school
with all sorts of stars and book prizes.
Her papa and mama (who loved her
dearly) were so proud of her that they
decided to mortgage the farm and send
her tocollege. After a lot of tears and
sighs our heroine started off for the big
city on a desolate autumn morning.
She was oh so lonely and she feared
there would be no one to look after her
when she got so far away from home..

At last the train stopped in a great
big shed, and the conductor told her
tnis was the place and helped her to get
off. Then some kind man directed her
to a big stone ‘building with pretty
gables and lots and lots of windows,
and when she went in a nice lady showed her to a room. Little Sinderella
was very very happy and she wrote her
mama about the funny professors who
talked and talked about something or
other, and the nice food she got at her
residence, because she had always liked
eggs. Sometimes she went to Glee
Club shows and thought they were awfully good fun, although she didn’t
always know what they were about.
Some nasty person wrote about them
in a paper and everybody got very cross
so Sinderella thought the writer was
awful mean.

Then one day Sinderella got the biggest thrill of her life—some man asked
her to go to a hotel dance where they
were going to have a floorshow and
even a master of ceremonies or something like that. But little Sinderella
didn’t know all the things that were in
storeforher. She wasa very good little
girl and her mama had never told her
the truth about Santa Claus or the
gooseberry bushes or anything. So
‘ahs went to the dance with this man


 

  

 

  
 

ane
Comment

The Editor’s Dilemma.

Whether the equalizing of the sexes
at McGill shall be allowed to effect an
alteration in the make-up of the Annual
(corresponding to Pharos at Dal) is the
major problem at present before the
editors of ‘Old McGiil of 1934.’ Up
to the present, women students, although following the same courses and
receiving the same degrees as the men
students, have been segregated in the
annual. Of late years it has been felt
that with the increasing participation of
women in the affairs of university life,
this distinction should be removed.

Opinions of the proposal have been
so diversified that the editors, in desperation have decided to leave the matter in the hands ot the women students.
They will endeavour to gain the wish
of the co-ed seniors so that they may
direct their policy accordingly. The
practice of mixing men and women
graduates in the year Book has been
in use for many years at Dalhousie.
McGill has not adopted the same idea
before this is difficult to conceive.

UNCORRUPTED JOURNALISM.

 

The McGill Daily reports the views
of Dr. Matthew Spencer who believes
that college publications should no
more be under the censorship of university officials than other newspapers
should be under the governmental
censorship. He stated, “‘that if university students who were selected to
manage the college paper are so incapable that they need censorship, then
there is something deficiently wrong
with the training which that university has giventhem.’’ Dr.Spencer who
is the former president of the University of Washington has had experience
along these lines. Speaking of journalism in general he declared hiniself
definitely opposed to any infringement
on the freedom of the press. But in
truth how sjight is that freedom. We
all know that governmental officials
who are not just the purest of angels
quite often completely censor a paper
which criticises them.

Dr. Spencer took the German press
as the horrible example of restricted
journalism. As a result the masses in
America know more about the atrocitiesin that country than do the German
masses. He believes an editor of any
newspaper should at all times have the
right to speak for what he believes the
the best interests of society, even
though his action interfers with the
immediate objectives of the government. Dr. Spencer has lead us to believe that he has been dreaming dreams
of a journalistic Utopia where all newspapers totally independent of governmental interference, are out for to improve social conditions and the devil
take the hindermost. Sad to say such
is far from the case and many rude
awakenings will take place before it
will become a reality.

 

though she didn’t know him very well.
They went right up to a room in the
hotel and Sinderella was pretty worried for a while because she seemed to
remember someone (maybe it was a
very learned gentleman in some college)
had said that nice girls wouldn't go to
hotel rooms with men even at dances.
But nothing very much happened and
Sinderella was having the most wonderful time of her life; the room was so
convenient to rest in when she got
tired or bored. But this man who took
her was just biding his time. It was
getting rather late when suddenly the
villain (at last revealed in his true
colours) took a flat bottle from his
pocket and offered poor innocent little
Sinderella a drink! She didn’t know
what to do, she wanted to call for help,
to run, or at least to ask the Freshman }
Representative’s advice, but she had
no time. Not realizing that this was
the first step towards a terrible fate,
she was just about to accept, when suddenly there was a rush outside the door.
Girls were running past with cloaks
undertheirarms. Sinderella looked at
her watch, and then sherantoo. For:
it was almost 2.15, the time Sinderella
had to be home, the time set by her
fairy godmother. The villain chewed
his long black moustache; foiled again,
but this time he knew a stronger force

then he was working to save little
Sinderella.

Letters To
The Editor

The Editor of the Dalhousie Gazette: —
Dear Sir:—

For the past year, yes, for the past
number of years, the Dalhousie Gazette has been nothing more than a
small edition of ‘‘Liberty,”” ‘The Halifax Daily Star’ and ‘‘Eaton’s Catalogue’ combined. Ninety per cent of
the students will tell you this, the other
ten per cent being made up of those
who don’t knowany better and those
of the Gazette staff.

Surely with a staff that is supposed
to be a bit above the average in the
line of literary ability, you can turn out
a Gazette that does not have to be
padded like’ a feather -bed. No one
will disagree with me when I say the
Gazette is padded, for if they have
only read the Gazette once they cannot miss the obvious fact that the Editors find it difficult to fill up space.

One of your editors has remarked
that the Gazette is primarily a training
school for future aut hors and authoreésses. I personally think he has the
wrong idea, the Department of English
is the place for that.

You Dear Editor, must realize that a
great portion of Dalhousie students
don’t goin for athletics, dramatic, or
Debating. Its a hard thing to believe
but it is so, and the Dalhousie Gazette
is the only advantage they receive
The Gazette is the only benefit that can
reach all students so you see, some students are paying a ten dollar subscription to your paper. ;

Now that I have given you a general
idea of my complaint. I would like to

be more particular in my criticism.

The section entitled “Campus Comment” should be the most interesting
in the whole Gazette, yet, to me, it has
been the most drab. The Editor of
this column has wasted his time in his
little dittiesinvolving the names of different students. He should have four
assistants to helphim. I know it’s a
big job to find enough material, but it
has been done and could be done now
if your staff had a little real gumption
and not so much artificial activity,
Another thing—you have interspersed your padding with writings on Economics, Topics of the Day, etc. A

students publication isn’t supposed to
When-a
student wants to find out why the piece
of fish is so high in Denmark or Hitlers views. on Sterilization, he goes to
the proper authorities, not to the Dal
carry topics of that nature.

housie Gazette.

One of your Editors has said that the
reason the Gazette is padded is that
you can’t get enough decent material.
My suggestion is, make the Gazette a
monthly, a bi-monthly or a weekly of
one sheet, and thus cut out the padding.

The same Editor has said that it is
the policy of the Gazette only to be as
good asthe Gazette of the past decades.

“‘Of course,’’ he says, “

or Goudges and Coopers.”

head, and the sooner the better.

In closing. might I suggest that you
publish this letter,
you will be flooded with the constructive criticism that is necessary to lift
the Gazette out of the throes of Hearstism, into which it has fallen.

YOURS FOR BETTER GAZETTE.

Editor’s Note:—The writer is evidently laboring under several delusions.
His argument is obviously based on a
fallacy, for if all the students took his
attitude there would be no Gazette,
weekly or monthly. So far as we can
recall, we made no reference editorially
with respect to any former Gazette
editors or the standard of their publications. Asa matter of fact, none of the
three gentlemen mentioned was ever
Editor-in-chief of the Gazette, and
finally, we would not particularly care
to comment on the quality of the Gazette of. past years.

A few minutes later as she snuggled
safely under her warm cosy covers she
breathed a sigh of relief and happiness,
Then she whispered thankfully, ‘““God
bless the President and my fairy godmother for helping to keep me safe,”
Along the corridors there echoed a soft
“AMEN,”

  

 

 
  

   
 
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
   
   
 

we can’t measure
up to the Gazette of Kelley Morton’s
This I think
is the wrong attitude, for he speaks I
think, for you, the Editor-in-Chief.
and the Gazette will never be any better unless you get that idea out of your

If you do I think

February 1st. 1984

CARICATURES

With Reverence
For None

 

  

 
   

DR. GEORGE WILSON.

Music hath charm. It must have,
for who should we see attending a recent Community Concert but George
and Co. escorting two members of the
fair sex. It couldn’t have been a serious case however, for as far as we know
he’s still single. Perhaps it’s too bad
because class 34 tried hard to have Proand Mrs. Wilson chaperone a class
party. (was your face red Ernie?)

Strangler has reached great heights
in the wrestling world. He is without
a doubt one of our most athletic professors, having never been thrown during the three years that he held the
Wrestling Championship of Ontario.
He still keeps in condition by using
Adshead (his shadow and side-kick) asa
sparring partner, much to the disgust
of many a landlady,

Did you ever dream of globe-trotting? Well George did. So not long
ago he took his Shadow by the hand
and headed for the Alps. History
doesn't relate how they fared but a
photo does exist which depicts the two
of them, clad in shorts (Eaton's best),
riding tandem on a Roman thoroughfare. Well, if you have taken History
you've heard the high-lights of their
travels.

George is the proud possessor of a few
acres of land in Ontario which masquerade asa farm. In the summer he usually ‘‘goes native’ but only to return
still retaining a thin veneer of civilization.

Dr. Atlee

(Contidued from page 1),

 

surplus profit back into business so it
goestothe bank. This causes the price
of gold to go up and prices to drop.
Wages are decreased, workers are discharged, consumption of goods decreases.

The Remedy.

But if profit-were spent on wages
when the market became saturated instead of into the bank, what would
happen? It has never been tried on
any large scale on this continent.
Capitalists always fought against any
raise in salaries. Every inch of the
increase gained over a wide range was
due to strikes or legislation brought on
by pressure of labor. But if profits
were thrown back into wages, consumption of goods would increase, prices
would rise, manufacturing would increase, more would be employed and
the general standard of living would be
greatly increased. Consumption of
goods is entirely dependent upon the
ability of the wage earner to buy. If
all surplus profit is put into production
wage earners will have no extra money
to buy the increased stock of consumer’s
goods. Wages must be raised to a
level that will enable the people to buy
the equivalent of the goods produced—
This means planned economy or in
other words “Socialism.”

Come next Friday evening to hear
the next lecture.

 

    

Will anyone interested

joining a Jazz Band

PLEASE CALL
B-0554

 

 

 

 

The Book of
Knowledge

We offer a Complete
set of this valuable work

at a bargain price

ri

Dalhousie University
Store

 

 
     
 

‘
™/
oe tee pacha

Chapter 7... seat

 

  

nd it came to ‘pass in the land
that the Libes of the land, the
udd and the libe in Med and

t of Jaybee in the territory of law
were kept open far into the night and
the oil burned long and behold, the
came thereunto in vast numbers
id sweat over theit tasks and

  

   

 
 

 

4 ~~ 
The | hird ‘Book Of Bune

in eee - % And somebody arose in council
and said behold it is the Glee Klubb;
and another said nay ‘tis not the fault
of the followers of Wyhittz and Jemme
of Gray; behold it isthe dances in the
Geem and in the inns of the city where
wine floweth freely and some said lo,
the fault lies in the many games that
the people play and still another said

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE * oe Gi? Weekaeae <a. ceebitees pie wanere ae

tone Pree 
Hitler and ‘Séerilization

 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
    

One’s sdtil ‘revolts against accépting
this Master-morality which has for its
end and aim the Superman. Surely
we are not to find in the voice of a Nature “‘red in tooth and claw’’ the ultimates of moral truth. Whatever be
the value of Hitler’s race improvenment
programme, it is not by a philosophy
such as this that it is ‘to be justified.
The undoubted truth in Nietzsche's
teaching is his insistence on the need

The Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax.

     
    
  

  
 

 

Dear Sir:

>,
UN SS: YF

   

A reference to Nietzsche appears to
be the orthodox method of approaching
the question of ‘‘the sterilization of the
unfit’ which has been so learnedly agi
  
    
      

= Canadians certainly

appreciate choice cigarettes ces

ee ES a
.

Page T hree

   

 
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

‘tis the women of Dal, yea thay that

     
 
 

  

2. And king Karel saw all this and| do smoke openly in the halls of the For- | tated in recent numbers of your paper.|for ‘‘a rich supply of great personali- they smoke more Winchesters
‘was muchly pleased and he quoth| rest while they wait to enter the do-| Perhaps a quotation from Aphorism}ties;’’ and to this everyone will agree.

     

 
   

   

871 of The Will to Power will serve the
purpose: “Has anybody ever noticed
that all interesting men are lacking in
heaven? This is only a hint to the
girls, as to where they may best find
salvation. If one thinks at all logically
and also has a profound insight into
that which makes a great man, there
can be no doubt at all that the Church
has dispatched all ‘great mien’ to Hades
“Although this nice little saying is a
propos of nothing in particular, it is
typically Nietzschean, and rather less
mystifying that the brilliant sallies of
Mr. Ex-Student. At any rate I have
done my duty by Nietzsche, and may
now proceed to say my say. Asit will
be necessary for me to refet from time
to time to the author of Hitler, Scientist of Progress (Gazette, Jan 11) and
to the author of Ex-Student flays Hiilerism (Gazette, Jan. 25), I shall! refer
to them under the convenient pen
names of Mr. Doe and Mr. Ex-Doe.

Both these writers endeavor to ex
Possibly not even Mr. Doe himself
entertains the possibility of breeding
the Superman: | certainly do not—
the law of “regression toward mediocrity”’ forbids it.

What then can be the object of a race
improvement programme? Toa Nietzschean it can have no object—his
dream of a Superman being shattered.
But to a Christian it can have
ject; and this I shall endeavour
elucidate after I have made some
servations concerning the views of Mr.
Ex-Doe.

As becomes a thorough going Marxist, Mr. Ex-Doe takes vigorous exception to a sterilization law which he
feels will fall most heavily upon the
But quite clearly
his sympathies have blinded his perception, and have sent him tilting at
wind-mills. “To point out all the inconsistencies in his elaboration of ‘‘the
economic implications of sterilization”
would be tedious; but he seems to be

main of Ronyeld of Haze fron the
Biowes and thus they did talk far into
the night and of this it will be related
in coming chapters.

8. Now in the land of Dal there are
two plagues,one is the vermin called
the Snsetchers who lie in wait in the
geem when the men do unrobe their
wearing apparel to don the garments
for the Basket and while they play
above the Sneetchers do empty the
pockets of the players of all belongings
and also in the labs of the Anatomeez
the Sneetchers prepare their traps for
the Studes.

9. And shekels and pens and other
kinds of belongings do continually
disappear and the people suffer but

10. And the other evil is the tribe
of Kribbers in the examin and during
the queezes. Behold unto them that
work there cometh little reward but
the Kribber basks in sunshine and hath
little worry, for his hand is quick and
his eye sharp.

» himself, blessed be my people for
y have come unto their senses.
e ay Then came the contests in the
2 € ee m; and woe unto the men and woEs men of Dal. For behold the slaughter
ae terrible in all the tribes. Many
e those that fell in Med and in Arritz and amongst the newcomers in law
a “ ere was much confusion and the
F _ slackers were placed on the dreaded
__ probashun leest. Yea, the people were
- well and truly ploughed.
B _ 4. And the king was sorely distressed and the Komnzittee of Studyee
5 a went about as lost sheep and said unto
. “themselves what has caused this great
ey ms — misfortune for le, have not the people
ee krammed.
5. Thus it came to pass that a
oe “mighty army fell in Med and behold
it was called the army of the Plukked
and the following did contribute to this
_ downfall accordingly. Behold Mayenland the Lean did account for twenty
and Beeheyen who knows the secrets

than any other blended cigarette!

Winchester

CIGARETTES
Blended Right!

      
        
 

         

    
     

 
 

an ob
     

SAVE THE
POKER HANDS

  
   

to

  

ob
  

 

 

 
    
 
 

Pine Hill Notes |

A copy of the Whycogomagh Weasel
—that enterprising newspaper that
fe rrets all the secrets of the Immortal
Isle—Cape Breton—has come into the
Nada of the scribe. He knows not
from whence it came, or whom, but,
marked in red was a section—the Matrimonial Column. With the paper was
a note which read, ‘‘Let the Truth be

      
 

 

Campus
Comment

   
  
 

  

depressed classes.

       
 

  

 

 
 
 

Three weeks ago to-day I attempted
to write this column. You all complain
because you fail to read anything fun
    
 
  
 

  
   

P tear eaiiceeret aid cive tc 11. And in the chapter that follows} pound the philosophic basis Hitler’s|\labouring under the illusion that the] Known to all the Denizens of Dal. ny. None of you have any right to
noe ‘generous measure eighteen and seven: behold the Chronicler will relate the} Sterilization Law, but from different Poor are to be sterilized because they| Publish this or DIE. Signed, The}complain because you are not paying
/ een and Gordeeyen of the House of doings of the Minstrels of Dal and the} standpoints. Mr. Doe appears to be |are poor; whereas the truth of the mat- rans Three and The Nosey Nine, any amusement tax. One student

     
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

   

. The Dirty Dozen.”

"Wishing to live long enough to be
able to take a few notes from Professor
Bennett that he may pass on to his
children, rather than passing on,to his
fathers, the scribe humbly offers this
clipping to the public, with regrets to
the -principals involved that their
secret should be found. It is apparent

ter is that some of the Poor are to be
sterilized because they are feeble minded, and prolific breeders of feeble-minded children. Since Mr. Ex-Doe is so
penetrating in his analysis of the Nietzschean fallacy, it is odd that he has not
also perceived that the Marxist philosophy in which he is so firmly rooted—
yes, buried to his eyebrows—is but a

an out and out Nietzschean, and would,
no doubt, cry Amen! tohis hero when
he says that “‘the only important consideration is the rise of the synthetic
man.’ One wonders if he finds philosophic justification for the sterilization programme of Hitler in Aphorism
943: ‘Weare convinced that we only
have duties to our equals, to others we

work of Bobby of Whyittz, and other
events in the land of Dal.

can't make you all cheer when I take
my penin hand. Maybe some of you
would have the right to feel bad if you
sent something to me and it wasn’t
published. Oh well, I should Worry,
Now to get moby to the bunk.

Yuheng and who cometh oft to the wild

inhabitants of Capebrett did also leave
nineteen. slaughtered heads and Kroo_ yikshanx did let his mighty axe fall
upon seventeen and Starritupp he too
said unto himself lo, Beeheyen and
-. Mayenland the Lean shall not be the

__ only ones, I too shall strike at seventeen
and he did and even unto Drvyeeher the

 
   

  
   

 
 

     

 
 

     

 

 
 

Some of the boys made enough
money to pay a week’s board at the
College of Art dance the other night.

 
 

Here is a iets with a few delicate
questions.

      
     
   

  

   

_ Mild, to him too there came the urge|Some of them managved tod wet. rooms do as we think best."’ Surely not!} poor sample of inverted Hegelian dia-| that The Dirty Dozen have no prin- (1) What is your idea of a college
ae ’ to plukk and there-was plukking both! ‘ back lectic. ciples whatever. hero?
= Pi & about ten o'clock and they charged The ordinary student, I believe, does] Whycogomagh, December 31st., 1933 Ans: A fellow who plats to go to

  

 

  

not care a damn for either Nietzsche or With the brother of the bridc, Rev

unto the right and left, and but a few everyone who came ifn a dollar.
new oes unscathed. |

 

Latest Song Hits

Another Perfect Day Has Passed Away
Give Me Liberty or Give Me Love
I’ll Be Faithful

Throw Another Log on the Fire
The Old Spinning Wheel
Puddin’ Head Jones

Smoke Gets in Your Eyes
Everything I Have is Yours

On the Wrong Side of the Fence
Sweet Madness

Roof Top Serenada

Alice in Wonderland—
And Scores of others.

  
   
 
  

   
 

  

  
 

—— Song Books Radio Favorites
_ Everybody Sing

_ The Cowboy Sings

_ The Book of Square Dances

- Santleys Dance Folio

_ Feist Dance Folio

Folios for Guitar, Banjo, Man_dolin, Saxophone and Piano
pareEoreeon:

_ Music Books for Music Students

‘The Bosworth Edition, consisting of the most popular works of —
Haydn
Brahms
Tschaikowsky
Rachmaninoff
nd other great composers.
P Ghspin Waltzes.
| Standard and Classical Solos for all voices.
r d Teaching Material of the best known publishers.
‘ext Books—Musical Histories, etc.

- Small Musical Instruments

Yo ca will find at Phinneys a large assortment of Small Instruments—
i Banjos, Guitars, etc., with all necessary accessories.

   
 

Bing Crosby Dance Folio
Kate Smith Song Book
Wayne King’s Waltzes
Radio Rubes Song Book
Singin’ Sam Song Book
The Street Singer

Seth Parker Hymnal

  

   
 

   
 

  

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  

‘*During the depression we need
apick up. Authorities agree that
music is at it’s best. The latest

hits as only the Music Masters
can play them.”’

CALL JERRY L-9238

But he is mistaken in this.

 

GAUVIN

AND

GENTZEL

Photographers to

Doe and Mr. Ex-Doe, in appraisng
Hitler’s Sterilization Law in terms of
the morality of Nietzsche and Marx,
have made next to-no impression upon
the Student mind: at best they have
engendered a mild curiosity.

The question that does clamour for
an answer in the mind of the thoughtful student is this: What stand ought I
as a Christian citizen, to take on this
question of the sterilization of the unfit?

An enlightened Christian morality
can give only one answer to this question. Itis an answer which will refuse
to give way to a sentimental tendency
to coddle the individual who is infirm,
when such a policy increases poverty,
disease, and mental darkness and unhappiness.
courageously Insist upon a policy which
makes, forrace betterment, and ensures
an increase in the proportion of healthy
happy families, untainted by hereditary mental and physical defect. Can
we allow sentimental considerations to
obscure for us an ideal so worthy as
this? I cannot.

“‘T will not cease from mental fight.

Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand,

Till we have built Jerusalem

In England’s green and pleaant

land.”
William Blake was not lacking in
“Christian sympathy,”’ even if he did
have an antipathy for priests. Per
    
      
 
 
     
     
 

Dalhousie University

  

 

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing Service

See Our Pictorial Work
For Gifts

  

 
 
        
    

 

  
 

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B.6992.

  
 
 
     
   
   
  
  

 

 

 

. Doe and Mr. Ex-Doe have) es
ers et Woe ans e, tee Doe axe j;between Christian sympathy and

been away from Sunday School for so
long that they have forgotten what
“Christian sympathy’’ means. At any
rate J would be grateful to Mr. Ex-Doe

BIRKS—

For Dance Favors,

Of Course

As quantities are not always
obtainableon short notice, Birks
advise forehandedness in ordering. Ourco-operation with committeesisour pleasure, and yours
to command.

Henry Birks &Sons

. Limited .
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

 

 

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

Halifax, N. S.

 

Marx: he may add, ip his haste, that he
does not care a damn for Christ either,
or, at least, for the Christian Church.
The moral
atmosphere into which he is born is
Christian; he meets it in his reading, in
his contacts with his fellowmen; and he
unconsciously adopts a Christian morality as his own standard of valuing
Therefore, | make bold to say that Mr.

It is an answer which ill |

 
   
   
 
   
  

I. Otto B.
sisted by her father who stood behin

the village chestnu
Should be ‘“‘black

zv MacNillam,
(Printer’s error.
smith.’’)

couldn’t catch Furry.

boy in the district since she was fourwas dressed in the same gown
that she had worn to a party the night
before—a pale, tomato-colored satin
with broad-shouldered effect and a
faint beer-stain design on the bodice.

The groom, a Pine Hill student who
has never worked in his life, wore a
borrowed tuxedo several sizes too small,
his own being in a pawn-shop in Halifax.

The marriage took place at the home
of the bride. The house had been newly painted and plastered for the occasion, which was quite appropriate—
—the bride being newly painted and
the groom newly plastered in anticipation of a New Year’s party which
was to substitute for the wedding feast.

During the signing of the register
by the newlyweds, and some [. O. U’s
by the groom, a piano solo, Promise
Me in A flat was rendered by the
groom's room-mate, whose name could
not be discovered. Such talent should
never be discovered.

teen,

if he would write to me some time and
explain to me who are his ‘‘bold ones’’
who suggest that there is a difference

Christ’s sympathy, and just what he
considers the meaning of their little
riddle to be.

Sincerely yours,
MacINTOSH.

DOUGLAS M.

 

     
  
 
 
 
   

Stepping Out

Your ‘“‘stepping out’’
will be more enjoyoble if
you dine at ‘*The Green
Lantern’’.....Then after
the show;-Toast and Tea

THE
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

Cumming, officiating, as
the groom with a shotgun, Miss A.
Maureen S. Cumming, daughter of
Mr. R. U. Cumming of Cutting Corners, was finally united in marriage to
Mr. Furry MacNillam, son of Mr. Fuz
The marriage was a great surprise to
all who knew the couple—the betting
had been 15 to 1 that Mr. Cumn ing

The bride, a skinny little thing, who
had been handled and kissed by every

 
 

the Delta’ Gamma dance stag.

(2) How was it that the Commerce
boys missed so much of the Glee Club
last Wednesday night.!

‘Ans: They have adopted a ney,
motto of business before pleasure.

(3) How is it the girls at Shirreff
Hall are not getting any bids to the
Tech Ball?

Ans: The answer is obvious and
vice versa. The boys don’t feel like
leaving the dance hall before it is over,
Something should be done but what I
am not going to say.

(4) What surprise will “Spec” MacDonald have for the students next
Munro Day?
| Ans: It is rumored he will appear
as Dan Cupid.

   
  
  
  
 

d

t

(5) Is there any such thing as
modesty at Dalhousie?
Ans: Yes, one time at a football

game when a player was seriously hurt
someone yelled for a doctor. Professor
Todd kept his seat in the grandstand.

(6) Does a person have to be captain of the basketball team to be popular?

Ans: No, it isn’t necessary.
lie comes by it naturally.

(7) Should a fellow take a girl's
arm when he is walking with her?

Ans: No, it isn’t the proper thing
to do, but it is just as well to keep an
eye on her.

Char
It is understood that a delegation
of girls will shortly approach the house
committee with a view of providing
proper fireescapes. It looks very much
like some of the girls haven’t keys.

Since the new dietician took over her
duties at Shirreff Hall the clothes seem
to fit a bit soosoon. There will probably be a move to provide proper clothing.

 

 

G. A. McDonald

Tobacconist
Complete Range of Pipes
25c. to $7.00
21 Spring Garden Road

 
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

MARY’S BATTLE TO DRAW ©

Cubs Lose To|Dal Girls Lose To| Dal and St.
H. L.A. C. Team Mary’s rit
os In League

February Ist, 1934 |

 
 

DAL TIGERS AND ST.
i Tigers to Battle Y SPORT
| x | En gineers By on Saturday C OMMENT “y? P y Cine

’ Coach Thomas ‘‘Tigers’"’ take on the 2 .
Point Margin

. be Y.M.C. A. Seniors on Saturday at the

 

 

 

  
 
 
  

game with H. L. A. C. at St. Mary’s
gym. last Thursday; Jan. 25th. H. L.
floor

 

 

cA * 3-0 Score Y at 9.00 p. m. Preceding this fix
In a regular fixture of the Interfaculty Hockey League played at the
Forum. on Thursday, Law defeated
Engineering 3-nil. The game was
featured by fast skating and the fine
defensive play of both teams.

Law opened the scoring about midway in the first period on a nice combination play by Godwin and MacSween. The Engineers led by Proctor
and Petrie tried hard to score but could
not penetrate the defense.

The second frame opened fast with
both teams playing smart hockey.
Hinchey and Godwin made it two on a
nice play that led the Engineers buffaloed. The Engineers were sending
five men on the ice at a time but could
not break through.

Hinchey in the third canto scored ona
‘nice individual end to end. rush. The
boilermakers were trying hard to score
as the final gong scored. Hefty checking
‘by Neil Ferguson and Layton Fergusson featured this period.

Hinchey, Godwin and McSween played bang-up hockey for the Lawyers
while Petrie and Proctor were outstanding for the Engineers. Svigal
managed a nice game for the barristers
Doug Bent refereed in a satisfactory
manner dealing out very few penalties.

Shots on goal

Engineers—10-20-10—Total 40.

Lawyers—15-14-15—Total 44.

_Line-ups:

LAW—Goal— MacLellan; Defense—
Ferguson, Fergusson, Manning. Forwards—Godwin, Hinchey, McSween,
“Spec”? Murray, Mahar.

ENGINEERS — Goal—Bown;
_ Defense—Menzie, Isnor. Forwards—
Proctor, Petrie; Waugh, Ball, Carew,
Zinck.

————$ rr


SPORTS

A Boy and Girl of Dalhousie went
Some basketball to see, .

There were behind them on the bench
Other spectators three.

The Girl sat down to look around
And talk to ‘‘others three”’

And every time a shot was scored
She glanced around to see,

The Boy sat watching guardedly,
A sportsman true was he,

And every time the whistle blew
He booed the referee.

ture the Dal Cubs take the
against St. Andrew’s, the league favorites. The Varsity is determined to
win over the Y as the game is practically necessary if title hopes are to be
realized. Smarting under the one
point setback of Jan. 20 at the hands of
the Reds, the Tigers are out for blood.
The Intermediate tussle should be close
asthe league leadisat stake. Let’s see
everybody at the Y at 8 p.m. Saturday.

 

S. C. M. Speaker
Makes Address

“The function of a University is to
produce people who will apply a scientific attitude to life.’” Such was the
statement made by Miss Margaret Kin
ney, Travelling Secretary of the Stu-'

dent Christian Movement in Canada,
in an address on the subject ot “Students, a False Hope-” delivered at
Dalhousie University last Thursday
morning. The speaker was introduced by Walter Mutch, President of
the Dalhousie branch of the S. C. M.

Miss Kinney declared that it is the
idea of many people that the only hope
of the World today rests with the youth
that is at the present time attending
the Universities of our country, She
said that she had noticed a great apathy
among Canadian University students
towards the economic and social problems of the nation. Students at a
University are in a splendid position
to do something really constructive
for the life of the country, since they
are not tied down to any routine job
that stifles their ability to think clearly on the matter being tackled, nor
have they any specific political tie
binding them. 
The speaker urged that a greater in
terest should be taken by students at
the present time in the affairs of the
country since in a few years it is the
present students who will be out looking for jobs. Miss Kinney stated that
students must bé realists and have the
courage to follow out their convictions
if they wish to accomplish anything in
the World. She also declared that she
hoped University students would take a
more active part in the country’s politics in the future, and also strive to
better the pitiable social conditions
which exist. Following Miss Kinney’s
address an interesting discussion was
indulged in by the students.
——_-->—__-
The Dawson Geological Club will
meet at the home of Edward Higgins,
87 Vernon Street, on Sat. Feb. 3rd at
$ p. m.

 

 

Men’s

Priced At, Pair

  

 

gaionia Oxfords

drawing cards.
squad are a well balanced outfit and
this fact should prove of great advantage in the play-ofts.

Weil, readers and the other 900 odd

students, 1 am going to comply with
requests this week and do something

different.

The ‘“‘big four’’ or M. H. L.
to you is furnishing a few surprises this year. For example
the two recent victories of the
Abbies over the Wolves and the
defeat (6-0) of the Abbies by
the Beavers.

The Hawks-Wolves battles are big
The Nicklin coached

—- ——- +

However if Bill Cowley happens
to be ‘‘on’’ I shouldn’t like to
bet on the outcome. Cowley
with the exception of a game
here and there has been going
great all winter.

—_— —

Dal are scheduled to play the Y. M.
C. A. outfit at the ‘Y’’ Saturday night.
Coach Thomas has been working his
charges daily and the boys should be
going good.

a

Coach Osborne brings his
hoopsters to town on the 8th
to battle the black-shirted Tigers. This game should be one
of the best this season so turn
out and see the Bengals in action.

What with lectures, badminton,
basketball, etc., the Gym is bein, used
to quite an extent nowadays. Mr.
Stirling perhaps you could convince
President ‘‘Spec’’ to let Interfaculty
Basketball have a few hours.

 

In the writer's opinion Coach
Oyler should work the hockey
squad a little harder. Most of
the squad are only in fair condition and in a game like hockey, condition is a big factor.

—

 

In the opening game of the Girls
Basketball League Dal were defeated
26-13. The small St. Mary’s Gym
proved to be quite a handicap. The
Intermediate game was defaulted due to
lack of players. ‘‘Parson’’ Anderson
is going to arrange the date from now
on girls.

Two weeks from today is
**panning’’ day so send along
your criticisms.

The Dalhousie Interniediates dropped their first game in three starts to
the Halifax Y. M. C. A. last Saturday
night in the latter’s court by a 35-34
count. This is the second loss a Dal
team has suffered in a week by one
point, the Seniors having dropped a

28-27 match to the Reds a week previ- |

ous.

Saturday’s tussle was marked by
poor shooting especially on foul shots.
The Cubs are now in second position
in the City League. The Y boys scored right off the bat on a long shot by
Don Scott and, although Bord Stoddard tied the count, opened up a slight
lead which they held until the final
whistle blew. Dalhousie outplayed
the opposition in the last parts of both
periods but not enough to make up for
their earlier deficiencies. Midway
through the first period Dal trailed 9-2
but played good ball to make the halftime score read 15-13 in favor of the Y.
In the second period the teams played
on even terms and scored basket for
basket until the end of the game with
Dal one point down on a 35-34 score.
Captain MacDonald had an off night
for Dal, netting only 1 point. Dalhousie as a whole played far inferior
ball than when they took the Reds 4310. Stoddard with 11 points, Simmonds with &, and Sullivan with 7 were
outstanding for the collegians while
Meisner, Scott and Lloy were the
bright lights of the Y quintette.

DAL:—Stoddard, Sullivan, MacDonald, Simmonds, Dubilier, Gaum,
Green, Rosner.

Y. M. C. A.:—Meisner, Hatfield
Lloy, Findlay, Komiensky, Scott, Hamilton, Bauld.

<-->

A SUNDAY SENTIMENTALITY.

After Church, Sunday night.
Place: Spring Garden Road.
Characters: The Rev. H. K. and

his snuggle-puppy.

Witnesses: A former B. F. of the
snuggle-puppy,

The newly-wed mentioned above.

His room-mate, also mentioned above

The scribe does not know what happened, but the witnesses were very
excited when they burst into the sanctity of his room.

However, on Monday, the Rev. H.
K. had a new theory for his Methods
of Meeting course. (Erotics 1), and
answered every question with, ‘‘Oh,
Kay!”’

Time:

 

l’AM NO MAE WEST
‘‘But come up and see me sometime’”’

HAIRCUTS—25¢,

BERT BOWLEY
445 Barrington Street
(over Buckley’s)

 

  

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES

 

A. C., last year’s Maritime champs won |

the game with a score of 26-13. Boy’s
rules with 20 minute periods were played for the first time by the co-eds.

Bev Piers refereed.

Jo Laba, jumping centre for H. L.
A. C., played a good offensive game.
Flo Keniston was high scorer for Dal.
Helen Remillard played a consistent
defense, breaking up many of Jo Laba’s
passes. Isobel Fraser, Dal’s center,
playing her first game for Dal, kept up
a steady defense but could not always
stop the tricky plays of Jo Laba. Dot
Dobson shot well but her passes were
wild at times.

In the beginning of the game Dal
was weak but as the co-eds became
accustomed to the high baskets and

short floor they began to do themselves
justice.

By the end of the second
quarter the game was much faster.
H. L. A. C. showed style in their sure
pass work but they had a hard time to
keep ahead of Dal.

On the whole the game was fast and
generally good. Dal put up a fight
of which to be proud. As the “‘Parson’? says, ‘“They’re all right.”’

Next week when Dal meets H. L.
A. C. on her own floor there should be
an exciting battle. All come out and
do your part in cheering Dal on to

victory.

Dr. H. F. Munro
Head InLecture

Great Britain and the United States
differ in their attitude with respect to
the rights of neutrals as regards to
navigation on the seas outside territorial waters, the former nation adopting an attitude of belligerence, while
the latter has adopted an attitude of
neutrality. If they could come to
agreement as to a common policy
World naval armaments would be reduced, which would be followed by a
reduction of land armaments, and
quite possibly World peace might follow in the wake of these reductions.
Such was the opinion expressed by Dr.
H. F. Munro, Superintendent of Education for the Province of Nova Scotia
in His lecture on the subject of “The
Freedom of the Seas”’ delivered in the
Dalhousie Gymnasium before a large
audience last Friday evening. This
was the third of a series of lectures
being held under the auspices of the
University in the Gymnasium. The
speaker was introduced by Dr. A. H.
Moore, President of King’s College.

NICKERSON & CREASE
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount

Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for com
plete Suit or Overcoat.

 

 

 

 

  

    
       
   

In a thrilling Intercollegiate tilt
played at the Forum on Tuesday night,
Dal battled to a 2 all draw with the
fast moving St. Mary’s sextette. Providing many thrilling moments for the
spectators, the game sparkled with
brilliant individual and combination
efforts.

Scoring one in the first chapter and
adding asecond marker in the middle
canto, Dal were leading till the last five
minutes. A nice individual rush by
Duggan however evened up the count
and forced the contest into overtime.

In the extra sessions although both
teams had several chances, no scores
were forthcoming and the two aggregations skated off the ice tied for the
league leadership.

First Period.

The first period opened with St
Mary's forcing the play while Dal laid
back on the defence. About midway
in this frame O’Connell broke through
to bolt in his own rebound. Kyte had
no chance to save.

Bryant wound up the count from a
mix-up in front of the St. Mary's net.
Both teams warmed up and the pace
increased rapidly. Both teams were
weakened by penalties, but no scores
resulted. The Cohen, Buckley, Grant
line was playing great hockey and
broke through for several near scores.

Second Period.

The second period was fairly ragged
with both teams playing slow hockey.
About midway in the chapter Buckley
broke through and let the defence to
put Dal one up. Edgar in the St.
Mary’s net had no chance to save.
Bryant nearly scored on a niceeffort but
was elbowed heavily by Cad Flemming.

3rd. Period.

The third period opened fast with St.
Mary’s having the edge on the play.
Referee Harry Butler was handing out
the penalties quite frequently for n.inor
infractions. Jack Fullerton missed a
golden opportunity to score when he
was through by himself. Bryant,
Buckley and Cooke missed several
chances when they failed to capitalize
on the breaks.

Overtime.

St. Mary’s started the extra session
with Quinn in the penalty box. Ellis
missed a nice chance to score when he
failed to pick a corner on Bent’s perfect
pass. Bryant then n-issed a open net
on Biscay’s rebound. Both teams
finished up the first overtime period
shorthanded.

IMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per lb
FLAT PIECES 7c. per Ib.

Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough
for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

  

 

  
 
   
   
   
   
   
       
  
   

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

‘*If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

IN
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Daihousie Students with Engineering Dipiomas
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year Twenty-five scholaiships of $75.00 each.
Write or call for Calendar or advise.
F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

L 2300
Halifax Steam Laundry

         

   

 

     
   

    

 

 

4.50

 

GARRICK] CASINO |

FRI. SAT.
LILLIAN HARVEY

“My Weakness’

Halifax Transfer

PHONE B.7138

 

 

 

    

Their smart styling. .. .comfortable fit. .. .and good workmanship combined with a really moderate price makes
them the choice of hundreds of Halifax Men.

EATONIA Oxfords are made from fine Jeathers by skilled
shoe men. They fit neatly and ccmfortably. They
wear and wear. In fact, we’ve such confidence in them

February 3-9

EDDIE

CANTOR

 

        
    
 

SAT-Mon-Tues.

Laurel and Hardy eee eee

4 that we guarantee them to be the best regular value in with
Town. LEW AYRES “SONS OF THE TAXI
See them tomorrow. Thkere’s a range of good-looking MON. TUES. IN DES
eee SERT’”’

 

Blucher styles in black
EATON'S S.cond Floor

models for men and young men.
calf leather. Sizes 6 to 11.

: &T, EATO N Seas |

25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

 

“Bombshell”

JEAN HARLOW
LEE TRACY

“ROMAN
SCANDALS”

|

COMING!

“DINNER at 8”’

 

 

 

 

 
