 
  

 

 

 

 

ceeded - —

[

    
 
 
   

7
1

 

 

a

ti 28.
e

ed before an interested audience.
-Pelluet spoke on ‘‘Experimental Gra.t
 

Dr. Pelluet
_ Gives First

HALIFAX, NOVAS

 

Coming Events of|] quw Society

The Week

a

Of Lectures Thursday 18th—Bennett Club Meet
 

—

Last Rita evening Dr. Dixie Peljuet, Professor of Zoology here, lecturDr.

ing in Animal Embryos,” reporting the

latest developments made by scientists

et

tS - questions concerning the causes of de
gente ses proviing that ine feeh
in this field. Considering the technicality of her subject, Dr. Pelluet i is to
be congratulated upon her ability to
interest her untutored audience. Her
lecture was wellthought out, carefully
composed and delivered in an easy,
natural manner.

The substance of Dr.
ture was as follows:

The exchange of tissues or grafting
in young animals is one of several methods whereby the processes o. development have been subjected to an experimental analysis. All the methods are
‘an attempt to answer the question
‘How does an individual develop into
an adult?” The pioneers in this experimental work were Roux and Briesch

Peltuet's lec
The work of these two men is the foun-| second to examine the pegmatites
_ dation of most of the modern theory. Governor's Lake.

ing. Pentagon Bldg.
Friday 19th— Millionaires - Boilermakers Ball, Nova Scotian.

Sat. 20th— Arts-Science Boxing
Workout. 12 0’clock Lower Gym.
Sun. 21st.— The Club Rehearsal

2.30 Munroe Roor., Forrest Bldg.
Mon. 22nd— Glee Club Rehearsal
715 Munroe Room, Forrest Bldg.

————___s2-oe  —

Dawson Geology

Club Active

The Dawson Geological Club was
organized in the fall of 1932 to encourage interest in geology. This year it
is expanding and increasing its activities. All who are interested in geology
are invited to become members. |

Last year the Club held two field
trips, one to see a deposit of aragonite
at Mr. Horne’s on Grand Lake, and the
at
During the winter

One of the more recent workers in the) meetings were held and papers on vari
field is Spemen.
4 T he eggs and embryos can be treated i in all sorts of ways but they are not

it possible to Seat portions
re en ‘yo into another. “The re-|;
_ sults of | hese grafting experiments hav
yielded ; a partial answer to some of the

-yélopment. The practical success of
the grafting method depends to a great

 
    
  
  
     
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 

ous interesting subjects were given.
‘This year two very successful fieid
trips have been held, the first to a gold
mine at Waverley where a wonderful
1}example of “‘barrel’’ folding is to be
seen. This trip saw a record attendance of the Club.’ The second trip
was to Portuguese Cove, an interestin,,
place where the contact between the
granite and the Pre-Cambrian sedimentary deposits is exposed. For the
coming term an interesting program

 

Has Riotous
First Session

Meeting last Wiodday t for its first session this term, the Law Society, with
Pres. John A. Miller in the chair, elected
in uproartous fashion, managers for the
interfaculty hockey and ‘basketball
teams, arranged for collection of the
annual pre-banquet charge, and discussed the $20 diploma fee, which the
third year men have to pay before
writing their final exams.

The election for hockey manager was
the most exciting part of the meeting.
Morris Siegal, dimunitive Napoleon
o: first year, easily beat out staid J. A.
Miller, alter Ed McCleave had retired.
McCleave tried to get his name back
on the list again, when it was moved
the manager's salary be raised from
$1000 to $1200, but he was declared
out of order. After being declared
manager, Mr. Siegal, in a well-rounded,
brief and witty speech, thanked his
supperters and, to prove his efficiency,
soon after posted notice for the first
hockey. practice. In a statement to
the press, Mr. Siegal remarked that the
Law School has the stuff, but it has been
for a long time, in need of a good leader. ‘I expect,’’ he said, ‘‘to bring a
hockey championship to add to our
football laurels.’’ He denied rumours
that he would be a playing n:anager.

After-the cheering had died away,

Roy MacDonald was appointed bask- |

etball manager, though Siegal’s friends
claimed a recount should have been
taken, and a committee wzs appointed
to confer with Medicine and Dentistry in a common effort to have the
diploma fee reduced.

 

 

 

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

COTIA, JANUARY 18th. 1934

Announces D’s

For Glee Club

Jimmy Gray, President of
the Glee Club, has announced
that gold ‘‘D’s’”’ willbe awarded
to Glee Club performers this
year. The D's will be awardea
at the close of the season, and
the award will be based on the
quality of the wor! done by the
performers.

S.C.M. Campaign
Gets Under Way

The Student Christian Movement
launches its annual financial campaign
this week with every expectation of a
successful drive. Voluntary subscriptions are the only source of support
upon which the movement relies.
We trust that, recognizing the value of
such an organization in the University
the student .will wish to share in its
maintenance.

The S. C. M. is a fellowship of studénts basing its activities on the conviction that in Jesus Christ are found
the supreme revelations of God and the
means to a full realization of life. It
also welcomes into its fellowship those
who are willing to test the truth of
that conviction.

The Movement seeks through study,
prayer and practice to discover the
true meaning of Christianity, to become aware of the implications of sharing with others its knowiedge and experience of Jesus Christ, and to join
with others tn the endeavour to create
a world order of society in harmony
with the mind and purpose of God.

The S. C. M. of Canada is the sum
total of local units in Canadian col
 

 

 

 

   
  

tte

No. 12

 

First Glee Club Show Will
Be Staged Next Wednesday

The Glee Club will open 1934 officially with its first presentation of the
term in January 24th. This will be
the fourth of the seven performances
stipulated in the constitution drawn up
at the beginning of the college year.
It will consist of a one act piay presented bv the Newman Club in competition
for the Glee Club dramatic shield, and
a musical entertainment featuring
Jerry Naugler and his orchestra. The
next offering of the Glee Club will be
the Minstrel! Show under the direction
of Bob Weitz in the first week of February. The third will be a completely
dramatic presentation in the form of a
fuil length play of some description
which has not yet been chosen. The
final and most important performance
of the year will be presented on Munro
Day in March. This is to be in the
nature of a musical comedy, probably
with a college background. It will be
the most ambitious undertaking of the
year and will require the support of the
student body.

Probably the most difficult part of
such a musical comedy is the organization of the all-important orchestrawhich is absolutely essential to the
success of the show. There has been
no orchestra worthy of honorable
mention in the Glee Club for a number
of years due to the lamentable apathy
of the student body, and now the op
portunity is again offered to form an

orchestra under capable direction, will
the student body reject the offer? It
remains to be seen.

If there is no orchestra formed and
the show fails, the Glee Club will, of

member of the Club and therefore
partially to blame for any failure.

Each student should be willing to bear
any such blame, or to help the presentations in every possible manner, but
this would apparently be a kind of
dramatic Utopia. Atarecent rehearsal
for a coming production, exactly
interested students turned up; thirty
were required. In itself, the above example means nothing, but it happens
time after time and nothing is done
about it; perhaps nothing can be done.

This year the Glee Club has gon: to
considerable expense to provide better
facilities in the line of properties for
student productions. Such things as
sets and drop curtains were owned by
the Glee Club before, but were all
destroyed in the burning of the old
gymnasium, and are only now being
replaced. Perhaps these and other
efforts will help to restore the interest
in dramatics at Dalhousie, it’s almost
a last resort. The executive of the
Glee Club cannot be expected to provide the students with seven presentations a year without considerable help
from the same students. Won't they
take advantage of the opportunities
and facilities offered him to gratify
their dramatic urges rather than go
outside the college into other organizations? Apparently not, since many
excuse themselves from college dramatics on the grounds of similar activities off the campus taking all their
Spare time. But perhaps these are
really the exceptions; perhaps the majority of Dalhousians interested at all
in dramatics are prepared to devote

Six

 

 

TICKETS 50c. COUPLE

extent on the powers of rejuvenation | of papers on various subjects has been leges, together with the National] course, be blamed; it always is. And] some of their time to the Glee Club at
in the organism. Grafting is possible arranged. headquarters and staff. Murray E.]in blaming the Glee Club for the poor| Dalhousie. Opportunity knocks more
‘inall animals fron. the lowest organisms The next meeting will be held Sat. Debating ; tabs Brooks, General Sec Ys Gertrude L.| quality of any production, the accu-| than once; if you've been in Glee Club
to man himself. There is hardly any evening, January 20th. At this meet- | Rutherford, Associate General Sec’y;} sations are usually directed against the | presentations before, come out again;
organ which cannot be transplanted. ing Ernest Higgins will give a paper on On January 20 | Margaret Kinney, Travelling Sec’y; K.| executive, regardless of the fact that} jf you haven't, take advantage of this
The success of grafting however dim-|‘‘Mining and Munitions.”’ J. Beaton chairman of the Missionary | every student of the university is a opportunity.
inishes with the aid of the organism. Any juiSeetadustes ‘atereuhsd in Education Council of the S. C. M.;!
j : a rs ° ‘ > > IETS [ 3 {2 ti c sta ft
and the increase of the degree of speci Dal Bodeates making the team for the Intercollegiate | 2° members of =e oe ional staff,
a Santee adn Rae ; debate with King’s University should |Once @ Year representatives of local’ A [berta Leans Eng. Commerce
Radid “ia-refrable. P I é ste ea ars units meet to plan the policy of the
ic ; ies Se yr re rominent fn attend the trials to be held in Room 3 tical ub ties ab de dwclwe Aeuittes / . . R I] 7
y an ingenious method, of staining Studley, Saturday Jan. 20th, commenc- | ? ne _feer ] O iteration a omorrow
the eggs, it has been found possible to West ing at 12 noon. | The National Movement arranges i
‘ 8 Na i x 20} 3 > 2c hy Se et Se
follow the tate Gh eae, Variene ee es The subject for the intercollegiate de- hoe Seemed oe Re ad -- —

1 y om ti- ; ‘ udents. cooperates with ot : e141: .
ee . a ni a At the recent election of Benchers of | bate is “Resolved that Canada Needs a/| | of Avie te pee’ ee : is oy The Boilermakers-Millionaires Ball
1 embr velop- : : te , f rani Zé ‘ ring anding men oe y a 3 E
re Brea ee ae aa . the Alberta Law Society eight of the| Dictator.”’ prepare either side for the a Bahier cbicte of Shea - : 4 As announced on every bulletin|is taking place Friday night. Just a

¢ n ar j ote. ; : : ; Jas é v nto con- : ; ; : ; a at : ;
‘ re na ie an a ee thirteen senior counse! elected to that | trial debate to select the team. <a eee (ar odin a Deccan 3 board, Dalhousie University is now] hint—BE ON TIME! Remember this
ape on aA e dais ee Ge high office were lawyers trained in the The second inter class debate for the om Biabecr ee ae oka , ee ; a sponsoring a series of extension lec-| dance starts at 8.30 sharp—Why: : ; : ; ES al secretaries visit local units an a ;

a P . Dalhousie Law School. The result is] Bennett shield will be held Thursday, | *!0" i ao a! : tures. But how dull are their titles.| Come and see! But don’t be late.
areas are determined as to their fate.|.°.. ; ‘ Okth: starting 12 The| help to give unity and solidarity to the : : be is : en ;
oe alliwed an eve-to divide into two indicative of the influence the School Jan. oth, starting at IO: aE idely scattered units of the. he caes Contrast them, for instance, with those] Ail tickets collected after *.38& are inBalls and! then ea Sead atid i has upon the legal profession in the] tilt is between the Juniors and Seniors| ¥" +: We gublishes the Canadian Stace | t? be held at the University ot Alberta: | eligible for the distinctive door prize.
as seas ia Pe sa ee 3 western Provinces and of the profes- the subject for debate, ‘‘Resolved that a ; ihe a Ail Giesatne { aes ri a Just one other word of advice, and this

< = . . T, , ; ‘ > V > Sana > ose Y o~ ~ J z : r . e ‘ + i - ' os 1
ie es sional eminence attained there by Dal-]| Women’s Styles are More Sensible ae : Ce fe ees Poultry Pointers, by Proi. Milne. is mainly for those who have said ‘‘no
veloped a two headed embryo joined : ; tl} Men's.” utterance to the thought of students 7 reich : :
in the tail region. This demonstrated wag aay alee seb ec nacht a i a on vital questions. It is affiliated wit! Better Bull Buying, by Dr. Bow-|to some ticket seller—this dance is the
os : . ,| the governing body of the Alberta pro- The freshmen won the first debate} ° Sai fe a ee ee foeeae | Teswane ereatest ever to be staged by Dalhousies
the fact that each cell contains material ‘ | : f the: Sout ag Sndowill debate | ie World Student Christian Feder- Sade F : ; ;
Settee 45 peodice a eitect indivi fession. The President, H. H. Parlee, | ‘ton. ms ~ophomores and wi debate ation in its bask of baila: saaete Seasonal Swine Suggestions, by Dr.| Remember, six acts of snappy floor
haat . , K. C., of Edmonton, formerly studied] the winners of Thursdays clock for : ae s 2 oe Christi Ce sh . wor'® | Sinclair. show, nevelties galore, decorations, full
‘ ; , eta eee Co PES sayin tak 2|lowshi an students. 2 : ; ; : ;
In embryo of different colour, Spe- law here. W. A. Begg, K. C., a Dal- the winners of Thursday clash for the | °° ee 3 ©: Mat Dat a aad eae The Grasshopper Situaticen, by]|course dinner and—music. You will
men took a piece of siéedivstive brain hone trediiate, hacserved 29 a Bench: Pee stud i oups bic teeth . le ai oa Stricklend: remember always.
€ - . . a : ot a Uuay er 2 as - aes Y W a a - ~ « - .
from one and a piece of presumptive er for twenty years and is now senior in 3 : = 1 ies bb-sitbieeks is . ‘ ib Ethics and Economics, by ‘Prof. Oh, by the way, there will be three
; oad range subjects. nas he wake ?
skin from the other. He interchanged ranking. Other graduates of the First Meeting Last ar 4 cece ab ht en ad abel sich Elliot. men’s and ladie’s prizes awarded during
the two grafts and the result anh each school who have risen to this profession- a i Ree sain Se " ro . oe i, the evening.
2 . . na M: 5. C. M. Conference at
became a part of its surrounding en al honour are H. R. Milner, K. C., of Thursday Bin, ai Peuhiixe Eo a - 3 Another, entitled “‘Adventures Among Remember:
- a ine ill. - S, ms, song O's a ' has
vironment, though retaining its orig Edmonton, J. E. MacLeod, K. C., of he! ‘Public. “Speakino- and Parliat| careic biden ee meres: 6 *| Alberta Birds’ tempts one to wonder The Place—Nova Scotian Hotel.
i “ ICE «< d a-| s ices, s 5 Cc service, 1re- * . sé , ed .
inal oka There are two important Calgary, J. D. “Matheson, K. C. of mentary Febien eke Club held its first] sides, have beeMheld under its auspic of why the author did not call it “‘Ad- The Date—Friday, January 19th.
Tet . facLes« . M. Johnstone, K. C., of ia | eg ek ee pike cutee Ser Merle ae Ma, es J Alberta’s Aviaries.” The Time—S.: >.
Daiindinns which can De draws: from zs ee i nie MEAL ¢ meeting of the new year on Thursday, st aes eeannes Among Alberta’s Aviaries. ie a ees Ex
, ethbridge, ygie, K. C. ‘ : tb : 1e Function—Millionaires Boilerthe experiment; Wktaskioin nd WY aa KC. of Jan. 11th, in the Munro room with] are forced to jump out. The chairman | Dalhousie may not be as up to date te ae | ;
1. That these presumptive tissues e pets le et, ~| Doug Seely in the chair. After the} then int aker of the even- | as her wes ala ‘ ao a
; See »P Edmonton. ihe Ff : : e | then ntroduced the spe aker of the even- | as her western sisters, for she does not
are relatively indifferent in their early transaction of important business it! ing J. A. Walker, K. C., a former M.| broadcast her lectures. At least how: —_—_—_—_6-+-@——_—_—_—- — . : 4 Be we ie =
stages. : ‘ fn et was decided to hold a “Balloon De-|P. P. from Halifax and Minister cf ever, her speakers do not make use ct 2 es) EI Manderson.; Diab ines
2. That there is some factor acting | Going to the Millionaires-Boilermakers | bate” at the next session, i.e. certain| Natural Resources in the Rhcces Ad-| ‘artful alliteration’s aid,” the likes of Pp e ‘I eae. : R di: . : = ee ; . Ma ; ; rofessor will give an address on Radiin the new environment which deter- Ball? . members will be designated to uphold| ministration. Mr. Walker gave an|wnich would bring tears of envy to hcg Olt oc ‘. . ae Si:
mines the fate of the transplanted tis-|_ Don’t forget be on time and place’ prominent campus figures and_ the| informal talk on Public Speaking which | John Lyly but which, appearing to wale Be ate "See a atid will
sues. your name and partner's name on pani wlgane who upholds his figure best will] was received most beneficially by the! Prof. Bennet in a nightniare, would ae iet aes x 9-15 3 m: Thursday
(Continued on page 4) back of your ticket. remain in the balloon while the others| members. | cause him to sprain nis other ankle. January 18th
nr t
mes
Si
| | COLLEGE OF ART BALL “ At The Lord Nelson Hotel
2 Friday, January 26th, 1934 9 p.m.
el 3
ra, JERRY NAUGLER a ORCHESTRA
ha .

TO BE OBTAINED AT DAL STORE

 

 
=

ads.

os ;

| 1869 “The Oldest College Paper in America”
‘EDITORIAL STAFF.

eee hee el 5 eee SEG ONE 01.2
Seid hei os ea ea

oe a oe
a
i

= 5
ie
.
- ss “7
~

od

W. H. JOST, B. A.
é BEES ug B. 2548.

: ics oe Associates. ae ices
feo Frisk Borden Stoddard.
J. L. Dubinsky.

: Goudge.

sates NEWS DEPARTMENT.
-_ EDITOR—HARRY SUTHERLAND, B5487.

. _ Associates: Douglas Crease. James MacIntosh.
eee? = = = Arthur, Merkel. E, Ar

iy ab.
a re» ~SPORTS
- EDITOR—TED CREASE, B5737.
Associates: Donald B. Cameron.
ei . Ruth Skaling. |
- GIRLS EDITOR: MARTHA KENISTON.

Associates: Mary Simmonds.
nie Merle Purtill.

Y BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.

Mana er . E Circulation . Assistant Manager
i. HOLLAND. C.R.MACDONALD. HOWARD C. OXLEY, B.A
B. 2643 3 B. 2543

=,

Pee a
eee ee oe

ay

DEBATING

ot

¥

ibject of the next Sodales discussion.

f

wae a 73 ; 3 die
= pa i
~ lege and

“Resolved: that we go on record as in favour of the abolition

’ i; 4 ? *

¥:

wor
a

e

Views and

LIBRARY.

One of the few reasonably satisfactory institutions in this University was
attacked severely in a letter published
in .ast week’s Gazette. ‘‘Pertinence’”’
might rea.ize that, as regards the 1ibrary staff, they should expect to be
hired on office hours—nine to five.
For the convenience of a few students,
howevei, they have arranged to stay
until five-thirty. Not only this, but
the library is open every night, except
Saturday of course, for the benefit of
about four or five students. Harvard
University is closing its library at night
to save lighting expenses and thus prevent numbers of research students
from carrying on their usual work, so
Dalhousie should feel proud that its
library remains open. While the budgets of other departments have been

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

« r
saa 3
; ve
Ae x a

Canadian
College
Comment

The universities throughout the
country have been crowded for years
and will continue to be in the future,
with men and women who are in search
of that intangible something which
they call education. Every person
who ever attended school was quit«
sure that he did so in order that he
might become educated, about al! that
the average student can say is that it is
the result of the work necessary for a
diploma. Is that, we ask, all there is
to education? Is the engineer who receives a degree from a university necessarily educated? Is the girl who
leaves the university with an understanding of home economics or the
athlete who can coach a team to play
ball necessarily educated?

The following is an excerpt from an
article appearing inthe McGill Daily on

restricted, the library committee has| ‘Everett Dean Martin’s, “The Means

increased its expenses a:ong various] ing of a Liberal Education.”
* |,ines.
The question of free ink is not a new

one in this good old Scotch University.
Indeed, it has rather a history. Some
time aga ink was put in the library, but
it disappeared so fast a cent was soon
charged per penful. Then a new com
debating,” is in all seriousness suggested by the Gazette as the| mittee took charge which thought ink
j The hundred-odd who} should be supplied free once morc, but
energy enough to attend the debate between Bates Col-| again it disappeared so fast that the
Dalhousie last week are striking evidence of the decline in|} students seemed to be drinking it.

debating Dalhousie is steadily undergoing. About half of those} The whole thing became a joke as tight
Brats _ present were Dalhousie students, five percent of the student Lody,
- ~ and while the speeches in themselves were doubtless commendable,

__ the interest shown was far less so. And so it goes today at Dal_ housie, and probably that is the case with every college in Canada.

.
« a i

screasing interestindebating. The scatteredhandfuls who follow

the luckless career of this unfortunate organization become increas- | querades as ink, but usually the ma
_ing smail.

It has been suggested in some quarters that Sodales be dispensed with entirely at Dalhousie before it dies a natural death, and
probably to carry out this suggestion would be an act of mercy.
_ There are so many other varying interests which the students have
_ that they have but little time to devote to what they look upon as a
and uninteresting subject, and not without some reason.
interest in debating must be forced, when the students must
led i attendir g Sodales and debating, the matter is fast
eh anaitiis ech unc

iss e
holds but little
it anyone but

10

more inclined to b

, 6 é, it, tl as P
eae a this ele

' 5 a
Mx

_ DALHOUSIE DANCES

Tomorrow night’s Commerce-Millionaires ‘Ball’ will be an
expensive proposition for those who plan to attend the affair.
Merging the two faculties ‘‘to save expense” has apparently been

___ interpreted by the zealous promoters of the dance as a reason to
; ee jack up the prices. As a result tomorrow’s dance will be the most
; i, expensive staged at Dalhousie this year, the cost of tickets proving

oe

absolutely prohibitive for the majority of the student body, who
| will be forced to stay away from the affair.
"Ngee The reason for the high prices is apparently to prevent too
large a crowd from attending, and from all indications, that object
will be well attained. But it seems a feeble reason for charging
the high price. The desire of many to go who would otherwise
Be: — attend but for the expense, seemingly bears little weight with the
a _ promoters of the afiair; they would rather see a small, ‘‘select’’
_-___~ crowd, than bear the slight inconvenience of entertaining a Jarge
number. This seems an unjust situation which should not be alfates =) lowed to pass uncriticised. Dalhousie dances should be primarily
_ —-—sinntended for the enjoyment of Dalhousie students, and it is most unpeat. -teasonable and unfair that so many students should be barred
eens from attending by the prices charged. It is high time that a halt
_--_- was called to the practice of charging ridiculously high prices at
_____« Dalhousie dances, and if they cannot be staged at reasonable prices,
ee ___ let them be done away with altogether. Thefault does not lie alone
Rene with the promoters of tomorrow’s afiair; as a matter of fact, the
_ cost of every Dalhousie dance this year and for years past has been
_. entirely too great, and every faculty should get its share of criticism
_. © ©in this respect.
_ The tickets for tomorrow night’s dance will cost its patrons an
initial sum of $8.50 per couple for the privilege of being admitted
to the dance fioor and of enjoying a lunch and a ‘floor show.”
: et why the floor show is not very clear; there does not seem to
have been any great outcry raised for this type of entertainment
ata college dance, so far as we can ascertain. Perhaps some of the
“rah rah’’ boys who have heard of such entertainment and perhaps
__ have seen it want it. That is bye the bye, however. The main

5

thing is that a college dance should be staged for the entertainment
_._ of as large a number of students as possible. This object has been
ere entirely lost sight of this time, and all through the piece. Let the
: real college dances come back, and let fair, reascnakle rrices be

Fo Radio Debates

__ charged_ hereafter.
Ze _ On the evening of January Hee 4) Onthe evening of January 30th, the
__ Dalhousie debating team will be heard
in a radio debate with McGill University. Dalhousie represented by How= ard Oxley and Jack Fisher will support
the negative of the resolution, Resolved that Capital Punishment Should

] RS een ae Sn Ee eA
mht Te be eS Pe
< . , rn af ™ J
_ Sodales
_ e - A. . g t
. o yr ¥ >
Ate *. é

,
le

~

1

a
/ «

ee 2

presentatives of the University of New
Brunswick, Dalhousie supports the affirmative of the resolution. Resolved
that The Canadian Farmer os of Great
er Importance to our Country Than

; ‘|The Canadian Manufacturer.

ey

he
.

one te te
api ie owe

— "

oa ee al :

local team will compete against the re
fisted colie,ians lined up for thvir daily
ration, and the practice of supplying
ink was stopped. Harvard has about
the only library which does supply ink,

one gets a watery-mixture which mas
chine does not work. It is also expecting a little too much to ask an already
overworked staff to handle a cash and
carry ink business. Why nota regular
cafeteria as well? So far at night, this
term we have not seen any delicate
damsels in distress for lack of ink, because they have been conspicuous in
the library by thcir absence. There

beside the point, but it is only
righe that the library staff and the committee in charge should get a fair break
by having these few tacts made public.

Shirreff Hall
Notes

Doris Fosbrooke and Aleen Fullerton of Mt. A. Univ. spent last week
end at the hail while attending the
Girls Intercollegiate Basket Ball Conference.

Miss Marj. Kinney, travelling secretary of the S. C. M. was guest of the
Hall during the past week after attending the Conference at Pine Hill.

It’s all one can do to keep one’s feet
these days in the rush for the dining
room. Some young ladies will be losing their figures soon.

Dora Baker’s gambling spirit sustained her to the point of losing 35
cents to Reg Allen the other day and
one half hour after Reg had cleaned
out every one present she tried to borrow a quarter from somewhere. What
is this?

In spite of all this talk about ‘‘Don't
think we haven’t anything better to
do.”

The boys still keep coming down on
Sunday night for cocoa.

ee ee ee

These radio debates are arranged
by the Canadian Radio Comniission
hand will be heard oyer the National
hook-up. The winner of the Eastern
series will debate with the winner of
the western series for the Canadian

6

[tthrowsome light on the subject. ‘An educated person is not merely one who can
do something, such as giving a lecture
on the poetry of Horace, running a
train, trying a lawsuit or repairing the
plumbing. He is one who knows the
sic nificance of what he does and he is
also one who cannot and will not do
certain things.”

THE VIEWS OF AN EXCHANGE
STUDENT.

That the average canadian univer
Naturally enough, the decline of Sodales is keeping pace with the| where by dropping a penny in a slot| sity undergraduate is too youthful and

too much preoccupied in sports to take
an active interest in national politics,
was the assertion of Victor Lang a recent German exchange student at Toronto. “On the other hand,” he declared, ‘‘politics are the dominating
factor in German university life.”

Mr. Lang was not favorably impressed by Canadian newspapers, which
he scorned for their careless handling
of news concerning European political

the subjects chosen is evidentlv a need for ink in the li-|issues. He was, however, impressed
soi " to be-| brarv, and the students’ council easily | with Canada’s freedom, from the speed
nterest for audiences. | bear its expense. Inthe law library | mania, which’ is so prominent in the
Canyc L the de aters, 10 whom, | every student pays ten cents and re-| United States. He feels that Can€ proht goes. The expenditure on debating | ceiyes ink free throughout the year.|adians know how to take advantage of
- EMMIS CO lege at least is based upon doubtful wisdom, Some similar arrangement should be| leisure and that they prefer to advance
be pertinent to put the question: why continue it at] made at Studley. However, that is|slowly, rather than make progress by

radical changes.

‘“ Campus Lover’”’
Up in Arms

The Editors,
The Dalhousie Gazette,

Sirs—

I am deeply hurt and annoyed that a
member of your staff has seen fit to
censor so openly the one pleasure and
recreation still extant at Dalhousie
which is untainted by artificiality, superficiality, and commercialism amid
frat parties, minstrel shows, and hotel
dances. I allude to what he termed
the ‘“‘Campus Lovers.”’ From time
immemorial man has loved, and as man
has loved so have there been those who
envied and resented our bliss, jealous
because they do not possess that subtle
magnetism which distinguishes the
successful one from those who look
yearningly from without.

With the usual misrepresentation
of the Gazette and ignorance of correct
facts, the writer disregarded the known
fact that only 1 out of 5 marriages
arising out of college relationships end
up in divorce courts, and 60 percent of
all other marriages end in divorce.
Again he completely overlooks the idea
held by psychologists that early marriages are a great thing and to be between people of like background and
interests.

For my part, instead of ridiculing
the fortunate ones, if I were as the writer undoubtedly is, a dyspeptic misanthrope, unloved and unloving, I should
no longer neglect the opportunities
offered by the co-educational system
and the benches of Shirrefi Hall.

Campus Lover.
+e ___
Thursday, Jan. 25, is the date set
for the first King’s dance of the term.
George Teed is head of the committee,
and he will receive the support of the

Intercollegiate radio debating title. students in preparing for the occasion.

Peccadillos

Seen on Barrington Street. A rath
er ragged little fellow was crying as if
heart-broken. “People went by and
looked, yet did not stop to ask what
was wrong. Finally that noble Scotchman, Art. Ebbutt, passed by. His
heart welled with pity for the little
chap and he turned and spoke to him.

‘’Tve lost my penny,’’ was the wailing response. =

So the generous Ebbutt reached in
his pocket and said, ‘‘Dinna ery my
wee laddie, if ye canna find it before
dark—here’s a match.”’

Allan Beveridge was successful in
shocking Professor Bennett for a time
when he made the sweeping statement
that, in his opinion, costumes were un
necessary in the presentation of a play.
However, in a supporting sentence, he
claimed that lights, too, were useless
and thus lulled the Professor's fears to
rest.

Fraser Nick wishes to announce that
if anyone wishes to ‘‘West” their time
—cum’ up ‘n’see him. Heand Charlie
Anderson recently went into a huddle
and, using the latter’s experience and
the former’s intuition, advanced a new
theory that a curve is the loveliest distance between two points, putting them
one up on Herr Einstein

Harold Wright's snuggle-puppy told
him she had taken a tramp through
the Park on Sunday. How was the
Rev. Wright to know that it was his
double-clocking brother?

Can you imagine anyone spending 45
minutes in the phone booth? It certainly is a LONG time, but it’s done
every night. We wonder if he ever
gets listener’s cramp. Please, lady
have a Art, it’s hard on his feet.

Don wishes to apologize for what he
thought about Herbie, after being convinced by Kennedy that Herbie’s ancestry just isn’t what Don thought it
was on Dec. 30th. Figure it out for
yourself.

a eee Se ees
THE S. C. M. PLANS FOR THE
FUTURE.

A Social Service project in the city;
A Retreat during the third week end in
February; student chapel service; more
firesides, lectures, sing-songs, forums;
a student church service on Universal
Day of Prayer for Students; The Annual banquet and election of officers.

| book

fancary 18th. 1934.

CARICATURES
With Reverence
For None

DR. H. L. STEWART.

Herbie is probably our. best known
professor, both on and off the campus,
by the students for hisalleged jokes,
by others for his radio broadcasts and
po.itical views. He makes no pretensions to be a Lothario, but older
students remember the class during
which Miss X held up her large noteinscribed with that immortal
phrase, ‘I love you.” He himself attributes it to the green waistcoat he
has been wearing ever since. He has
been here about twenty years, but still
looks upon his jokes as friends; the oldest are best. Although the humour
has been strained out by the third repetition, some students have learned
to their advantage that they are the
diagrams illustrating geometrical problems. Yet as Goldsmith says:

“Full weil we laughed with counterfeit

glee,

At all his jokes, for many a joke had
he.”

Despite his respectable Scottish name

he still refers to the land of peat and

potatoes as the Emerald Isle; he has

distinct Hibernian prejudices and re
gards St. Patrick as somewhat above

Gabriel and St. Peter.

He is head of the philosophy department, but doesn’t let it prevent him
from being a good business man. He
is also Editor of the Dalhousie Review
and has even been Known to write for
it. This, together with contributions
to contemporary periodicals, occasional books, and bi-weekly radio broadcasts, keeps him fully occupied. He
has three children, the eldest of whom
he has persuaded to take Phil. I with
him; however, it may not do him any
harm. He can quote pages from innumerable authors, and usuaily does.
He would be an excellent philosopher
if he had time, but when children come
in the door, leisure for contemplation
flies out the window. There is a iegend that he drove another car that
looked like his fot several days before
discovering his mistake. A policeman
corrected him. Sometimes too ‘he
falls asleep at inopportune times as
last week to the annoyance of the
Dominion Authors’ Association.

$e r

Thursday nicht, listened to an interestine lectureon music by Mr. Harry
Dean. Althouch this club is primarily
tor the discussion of economic and po‘itical problems, the experiment of takine a broader field was seeminely enjoyed by the usually sober-jowled student economists of this university.
His orchestral records, illustrating his
points, were particularly effective and
caused a different discussion afterwards than they usually have.

SAVE SHEKELS AT SHANE’S SALE

We Announce-
Our Annual January Sale

200/° Off

ALL SUITS—TUXEDOS— HATS—CAPS
SHIRTS AND OTHER FURNISHINGS

250/° Off

THE REMAINDER OF OUR WINTER OVERCOATS

THIS SALE WILL CONTINUE UNTIL
JANUARY. 20th.

shane’s Mens Wear

30 spring SHOP caraen poad|

 
. present the. hielic with no
es; it couldn’t be any worse,
es were any better it wouldn’t

Pee)

iency of the New York ea reements; ; much the same thing kept
agree of the spelen Dis
r jer his income had varied but
gi _ He paid his rent and his bills

sae?

: ny as he walked up Fifth Avenue
ae was” worried; ambulance chasing

‘ Seitions was no longer profitable, and
< e Debtors’ Court was no longer a
appy hunting ‘ground tor fees

oe / Growning his worries was the slight
iar “ma atter of a watch which he had pawn~sd, and wnich a client had given him
collateral on a loan, and the loan was

be repaid, but Hymie lacked the

ua herewithal to get it out of hock. .A
este éagle would do it, but the eagles
were flapping their wings far beyond
his: reacp. A gust of wind blew snow
in his face and he bumped against a
. passer-by. The snow was falling fast
td walking was both unpleasant and
ricky. He crossed Forty Second

= Street, hopeful of being knocked down

c Ps some heedless driver, but drew only
un! a snarl from a hack driver. Across
e street he patsed, sharp eyes and
shar’ face turning to look for dise astrous incidents that would lead to.a
- ease. Nene occurred. People were
2% hurrying past, faces lowered against
the wind, coat collars up, feet moving

Be fase, all going somewhere and unin- terested in lawyers’ worries. The law
 « was being placidly observed, and even
1 policeman on the corner seemed
aPPY amid the ‘snow. Rosenberg
rled-at him and the peace he stood

} : and: moved on, slowly turning over
in his mind the. different sources of
spend ‘of h nis _ questionable practice.

al

n of his crafty mind was ‘fn

d ther rejected, ‘Only one
sible—the a small, but

Of» great interest to ali Dashousians
is the recent publication of Dr. Wilson’s
book The Life of Robert Baldwin. The
bookis extreme iy interesting from three
points of view. It gives a scholarly account of the events which ied to the

acceptance of the theory of responsible

government as the basis for the government in Canada. It is an interesting
biography of a man who wascompletely
lacking in the dasning or piquant characteristics so eagerly seized upon by
moderc popular biographers; and finalty
itis anexample par excellence of the
moral value of history. The Life of
Robert Baldwin gives a true picture of
the methods by which lasting benefits
are to be achieved in statesmanship
and _ politics. f

The book will be of great value to
students of that period of Canadian history, because it is written almost entirely from first hand material. (Not
the least interesting part of the book
is the bibliographical note), Dr. Wilson has woven passages from formal
governmental correspondence, and bare
accounts of political speeches and parliamentary debates, into a most stimulating account of the development of
constitutional government in Canada.
Incidents as they occurred and words
as the old politicians themselves spoke
or wrote them, are given full opportunity to speak for themselves; and in
Dr. Wilson’s book they arouse not a
little of the tense interest which must
have stirred the-people of the time:

The study of Robert Baldwin himself is interesting. At first glance he
would seem the least desirable subject
for biography, since his whole life was a
consistent attempt to subject himself
and his-own personality to the cause
he had in hand: He was gifted with
practically no superficial charm, his
firm rejection of anything that savoured of the opportunist prevented him
from seeking to enhance himself by
advantageous ,dramatic effect. He
fought his way through by rigid preservation of an unbroken connection
between his high principles and honest
actions. Dr. Wilson gives a sympathetic portrait of this man allowing the
nobility of his words and the straightforwardness of his actions themselves
to win the reader’s admiration.

Ata time, ‘such as the present, when
basic changes i in governmental systems
and means by which these changes may
be brought about, are of such great

; torent: this study of the work of Rob
aise Bane his ss me began

~ scrutinizing. ‘the shops he passed care
lly. No, that one wouldn’t do.

Nor that one either “Bankrupt Stock
f elling Out” — —decidedly not. But here

es Safe Deposit Boxes For Rent,”

“40, on Savings Accounts.”” Hymie

quickened his step, lurched against the

cap next him and slipped full length

. with a thud on the ice-covered pave
a A crowd gathered. He tried

to rise, but fell back with a groa

ae “Em m hurt, my leg’s hurt. These slip
33 side-walks—the, should clean

em off—somebody might kili them
a seives—criminat nepligence, _ that’s

ac what it is. J'H sue, that’s

aeons do.’ He looked about for syn 
pathy, but the fickle crowd was watch
; - ing a bored official looking-man tack a

notice on the bank's door: ‘Closed

PGs the banking authorities of New York
‘ ¥,. io - State.”

ue
ah.’
mh

F
£

ee

7

- The College Dramatic Society has
~ chosen suitable plays and the actors
‘of the Residence have responded to
Babe eall for talent. The Society exp ects to produce the plays early in

what I’m! : ae
‘are turning out enthusiastically to prac
ert Baldwin has more than historic
value. It shows how the satisfactory
introduction of a new principle may be
achieved honourably, against all odds,
by men of clear purpose and peerless
integrity. The Life of Robert Baldwin

‘offers indisputable evidence that the

way of out-spoken does

‘‘work.’”’

honesty

oe

U. K. Cc Notes

Our hockey team has been fortunate
this year in obtaining the services of
Jimmy Smith as Coach, and so the boys

tices. They lost their first game but
are confident of showing good form: in
the remaining games. So eager are
thev for practice that attempts are being made to keép.a rink in good condition in front of the buildings.

And basketball has its usual large
number of devotees. The workouts
have been frequent and strenuous, and
after a few practice games this week
the men should be in fine fettle for the
schedule. The team will feel greatly
the loss of Harvey Cole, who is in
Europe. The majority of last year’s
men are back in uniform.

EVERY MAN’S LIBRARY

A COLLECTION OF 896 BOOKS

In the small space

5 hs te at description of these.

of this ad we make no
Its purpose

| is to invite your inspection of the works that
are on display in a convenient place in our
store. We will be pleased to supply acatalogue

i| to all who call.

'| DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
STORE

_DALHOUSTE GAZETT E

Sa <

Comment

All those who think my jokes are p oor
Would straightw ay change their views,
Could they compare the ones I print

With those that I already know.
(Pardon the Engiish).

I, the effervscent (effervescent for me

-|there would be no column), hope you

appreciate my eflorts to improve the
column. The students seem to be
wondering who isthe new author. The
Campus Eye-opener is everywhere at
right time. If there is anyone craving
publicitv send in your name and I'll see
that you get credit for your interest.

I am offering a prize for the best story or |

wisecrack received next week. Send
in your contributions early to Campus
Comment, Dal Gazette.

This week I am going to Wright you
some more of my adventures. After |
we obtained an ice cream Cohen we went
upstairs in the Green Lantern. By the
way the Green Lantern make the best
Soup in the country. Climbing stairs
is hard on the Hart so we went to the
Zine and had a drink of water. The
waiter asked us if we Wood like something to eat and we declined saying we
Jost came in torest and besides we had
been Eaton all night. Wdulettdo us any
goodif we did? Weleft there and went
out into the street where we saw a little
boy Whalen and Ballen on the sidewalk
Being a gentlemen and feeling that possibly I might be able to take his candy
from him, went over to him and said
“Wattsthe matter, my little Mahon.”
He replies “Waugh, Waugh I won't
Tulloch you. We didn’t want him to
think he had the better of us so we reply
‘‘Veinot already ha! ha!’ Shut up before I Batt you in the teeth you little
Pratt. Then we asked him his name
and he replied that it was Smith. We
wondered later where we had heard
that name before. As we were leaving
him he began to smile and said ‘Come
up and see me Sim time.”” We meta
policemian and I says ‘‘Shea, could you
tell us where were were and Ted thought
I might be talking to him so he answered
Hot Rae, its just 12.380... The cap says
can 't you Reid, the Street name is on
that Howse. We thanked him very
Mutch for nothing and hired a taxi.
Ted says ‘‘Shofertake ushome. lsays
“Pipe down you fresh Polak.” The
Shofer wanted to know what was the
Maitay with us. Freddy began to sing
“Old McGregor had a farm.” I said
“Shut your Lipman:” We = arrived
Holm without more adv but couldn’t
pay the driver. His ire Rose. We
borrowed some Silver from one of the
boys and told him to go put a Reef in
his pants. We couldn't get in through
the window so we decided to got hrough
the door. I says ‘where Me Kie.”
We found it at the Topp of the stirs.
We began to Wishart was there with us.
We decided to Locke the door. Geddes
next week and follow closely for Moore
Cramm full of excitement. It looks
like Frost.

Notice—The Dal store will give a reward of $10 to the student who brings
in, dead or alive, the barber who cut
my hair.

ROY ATWOOD.

Observer feelsthat the Year Book's
idea of picking a@ Queen of Pharos is a
very good one. There isa very lovely
prize for the winner and the one who
wins it will be very proud indeed. It
will require a great amount of effort
on the part of the students in supporting their favourite candidate. Now
is the time to start.

The answer must be Music
that satisfies because Naugler’s
Tune Masters are engaged for
the next big dance. We will
see you at the M & B Ball.

CALL JERRY L-9238

To Night!

To night, or any night,
The Green Lantern are
at your service for—

Lunches, Teas, Ice Cream,

Tee Etc.
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

\Deltat Connie and.

D. G. A. C.

The first meeting of Delta Gamma
for the new term was held at Shirreff
Hall on Monday, Jan. 15 at 8 o'clock.

The only important business to be
discussed was on what date the annual
dance would be held. The first of
March or one night during the week of
Feb. 26th was tentatively decided upon and it was agreed that the dance
would be held at the Nova Scotian
Hotel with Jerry Naugler supplying
the music.

Better get moving lads, there’s only
6 weeks left!

After the business meeting adjourned
Mrs. Wilson Smith spoke a few words,
which were much enjoyed by all who
heard them. The freshettes then pressented a programme and after dancing
and refreshments the meeting adjourned.

Towards the end of February, Acadia
will send three Girls to debate
the Dalhousie Co-eds. This
first one for several years that we have
had an intercollegiate debate with any
maritime University and it is hoped|
that the enthusiasm will be such as to,
warrant there being debates in the future.

The trials were held last evening in
the Munroe Room with Mrs. Wilson
Smith, Prof. R. A. McKay Mr.
O. Crowell, acting as judges.

The subject for debate is “Resolved
That Womens’ Suffrage is Justifiable.”’
and Dalhousie will support the
mative.

The results of the trials weil) be made
known as soon as possible.

against

and

affir
Basket-ba!! practice is again in order,

Practices are held Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday.

Chariie is working hard to get the
team in order for the City League games
and the interscholastic games. Boys’
rules wiil be played in the City League
games. The schedule has ben set for
games with Acadia and Mt. Allison.
The first game will probably be played
with Mt. Atiison at Mt. Allison at
about the 16th of February.

Charlie wants all girls to turn out
for practices. The next practice will
be held Saturday at 12.90.

weather
I guessed

Professor Stewart says the
is very political these days.
he means it is rather slippery.

Dear Campus Observer:

I would like you to answer
questions for me.

(1) Whoisthe tallest student inthe
University playing basketball? Ans:
I think itis Mit Musgrave and he favors short girls.

(2) Who do you think is the best
looking boy on the Campus?

Ans: This question is personal and
I would rather not answer it.

(3) Will anybody ever get enough
nerve to suggest a ‘“‘dutch treat?”

Ans: It is very doubtful unless the
boy suggests it.

(4) Where would the Dal campus be
situated if it wasn’t where it is now?

Ans: Probably on Citadel Hill.

(5) Will the Millionaires-Boilermakers ball be the big success of the
year?

Ans: Without a doubt it will. Maybe some one will give you a bid yet.

a few

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
sevice ul O16

Service

25c. Rate to Students

G. A. McDonald

Tobacconist

Complete Range of Pipes

25c. to $7.00
21 Spring Garden Road

the the denizens of the Med tribe await

|

The Book Of Bunc

Chapter 5.

(In which the Chronicler doth relate a
strange dream.)

1. And the Chronicler dreamed and
lo, he saw the King of Dal on his throne
and his subjects coming to be judged.
And there sat there the fierce Accuser
who foundeth fault wih all and the
guards were there and also the royal
choir and lo, the followiag did transpire.

King:—Lo, the dav groweth into the
shadows. Who cometh now before
me?

Voice from. without:—May there be
blasphemy on this waiting. Alas,
that I, Benj of Att-lee should be. made
to attend thus.

Guard, from without:—Silence,
of Att-lee. Be still. (Benje
enter).

King:—Welcome, my noble doctor,
and relate unto me deeds that entitle
thee to my grace.

Benje—Pardon, my lord, o King,
but is it possible that thou hast not
heard of my doings? Is it not l whom

son
doth

with all eagerness that I might impart

| wisdom into their ears and service into

| their hearts? Lo, thou must indeed
likened women into the sheep and behold he is the foremost in many projects for the welfare of the people. Lo,
| am prepared to receive thy blessings.

Accuser:—Hearken not unto him, o
King. Is he not one of the taskmasters
that heap many labours upon the weary
people of Med so that they fail in their

efforts and yea, at this moment, weep |
within their tents at the disgrace that |

has befallen them. Do not the people
groan in silence and say within their
hearts, verily we cannot accomplish
all the tasks.

King:—I shall consider thy deeds.
Go now. Who cometh next?

Royal Choir:—Twas around

corner and under the tree
The noble Major made love unto
me.

King—Be seated, O stalwart Makkleve, arid let mine ears hear the doings
of mv servant in the land of Dal.

Major Makkleve:—My humble
thanks to thee, O king. Verily my life
in thy land has been modestly lived.
Behold, I have not imposed my presence greatly upon the profess, yea, in
their lekchures. Verily, I have not
striven for great honours and I have
been contented to gaze from a distance
upon the virtues of my fellowmen and
rejoice in their deeds. Lo, I think that
1 your humble servant, deserveth no
ill of thee,

Accuser:—No ilk? And wherefore,
O King should he obtain thy bounties?
Look ye,

the

mortals in thv land and in all the years
hath gone to the celebrations of the
people alone, yea as a stagg, holding
thy female subjects in scorn. Wherefore great sorrow was theirs.

King—Grave thoughts come to my
mind, O Major. Lo, I shall dismiss
thee now and shall hear thy entreaties
many moons hence. Get thee gone.

(The Major boweth low, and turns
to depart, when behold, the King beckens him aside)

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

BIRKS=
For Dance Favors,

Of Course

As quantities are not always
obtainable on short notice, Birks
advise forehandedness in ordering. Ourco-operation with committees isour pleasure, and yours
to command.

Henry Birks &Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

he has raised himself above all j

King:—(in a low whisper) See that
the gang cometh to the royal palace
at night. Now leave me and peace be
with you. Who cometh now?

Choir:—Thou must be a football
hero—

Guard:—’Tis a citizeness of the fortress, O King, from the castle SheeReff-Yawl. Verily we have removed
the war painting from her countenance
that she may enter properly in thy
presence.

King:—And thou, femaie fron: SheeReff-Yawi, what mayest thou plead before my court?

Female:—Obedient servants of our
King are we that live in the castle. Lo
we do our tasks with eagerness and sincerity and we waste not the hours in
idleness, Punish us not, O ruler, for
that which we have not merited.

Acecuser:—Ever and increasingly
false, her words and her smile are filled
with guile, O king. Lo, their castle
fumes like a burning cauldron with the
smoking of the weeds that they in idleness and listlessness consume as they
dream of dancing and carousals. Behold, unto them greatness stands for
the number of conversations over the
wires and power Liés in the score of
thoughtless youths that each attaches
to her retinue. And this while far
from the land earnest people strive for
their maintenanceinthe castle. Verily,
few were their names in the pass lists.

King:—I am sorely distressed. ° I
shall bethink myself. Now who doth
enter?

Guard:—My
awoy.

King:—Tell me not that Jaybee has
come thither?

Guz O king. (King
trembles and doth arrange his gowns).

King:—Greetings to thee, my gifted
subject. My ears are open unto thy
words.

Makkawoy
thee, O king.

said,

lord, tis he—Makk
:—Little shall I say unto
In truth, much might be
but alas of what avail? Lo, I
have been a good subject of my ruler.
I have kept the doors of Law libe open
and have dealt fairly with the men.
Accuser:—Hear him no more. Has
he not brought anxiety unto the brows
of the Profess with the many problems
that he doth?
Royal Choir (from without)—All
hail to.thee, Dalhousie—
King:—Silence, O
hear who are without.
:—Ah, bless your
hast thou tarried here

accuser, let. me

Voices from outside
heart, O Herbee,
long?

Nav, son of the multitudinous tribe
of Smeet, many have been here before
me. Behold near the entrance standeth Mainland, the Thin One, and there
wait too for the Mur-ree, the
Registrar, and Harpeeyer, who takes
the shekels, and Zturleeng and Weehigmur who is come to speak to the King
concerning the disasters that have overtaken the populace, yea veril
Feelozofee. And behold
cometh Ztarritupp.

King to Guard:—Bid them enter an
bring Makkawoy unto me again, yea
verily my servant Jaybee and let the
Keeper of mine cup serve wine unto my
subjects.

King,

y, even in
too, there

(Continued)

GAUVIN

AND

GENT ZEL

Photographers to

Dalhousie University

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing Service

See Our Pictorial Work
For Gifts

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B.6992.

 
  
  
 
   
    
  
   
  
       
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
    
    
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
  

Fiend Intermediate
nes Slated for Saturday

Sam's dependable and

 

 
   
  
    
 
   
 
   
  

Ihou isie’s aetheranedinte and senior ave himself.

ane on eae at noon and} “We'll soon be playing with a Liskg,
A day night respectively. The white beard.
2 Cubs will tackle King’s College at| BillGladstone: Bill isa newcomer
_ Studley and the varsity visits the|this year, but his all round playing
i ‘Wanderers, present title-holders, at the| ability has made him welcome among
a4 eS The intermediates should cap their the Dal basketeers. He’s one inch
= game but Kings promise to offer plenty | short of Mit’s 6’ 6” and heaves accurna, SO opposition. The outcome of the|ate passes which aren’t easily interek Senior battle is doubtful but, take it}cepted. A dead shot around the bask_ from me, it will be a game worth seeing. | et and plenty of ‘confidence—that’s
ae and the Reds are heavy favorites| Bill. He’s known as the ‘‘Devil’s
r title honors this year so both teams Island Lighthouse.”’
will be out for blood, The Redmen| In addition to these six, Coach
a have Bob Goudey, Steve Young, | Thomas will carry two others on his
‘2 a Bev Piers, Red Grant, Bink Oxley, | roster. One may be Bernie Ralston,
see - Harvey Harris, and Ken Kerr on their former Acadia star, but the other chocie
line-up while the Dal team has not as is unknown. Jack tells me confidentiyet been announced definitely. Sam | ally that the boys are hot stuff so lets
‘Fairstein, who planned to retire due|look over ‘‘Mussolini’s Blackshirts”’
Pan ‘to pressure of studies, has again turned | at the Y on Saturday night.

a « out to complete the Bauld, Fairstein,
Freshmen Hold

« z *

~

 

ak

 

 

i and Crease line and greatly strengthens
} = = : “an already formidable aggregation.
The following collegians, according to]
| Py Coach Jack Thomas, will probably see ¢ la SS Pa r t y
©. action in the league opener on Saturday.
= aa 2, es Anderson: ae a - The first class party of 1934 was held
ta.) Bin yee ote het cowie orn i. aid last Thursday in the Nova Scotian Grill
ig a “ek: oe ‘tote ‘ ni te Nera Rooni, when the Freshmen got together
meen it for a great party. Males appeared
_ Charlie isa dependable ahe - nd guards ‘Yen masse,”’ but the lassies were rat her
Pea SPE COUEE a6 if his ‘bee life ree scarce. This deplorable factor was,
-ed on it. A great worker and every however, surmounted by cigar smoking,
inch a team a, ves Mit”? i and at one time at least five men were
* Milton Linas ; d a seen lolling about the lobby with big
Charlie's partner om the rearguard and’) ¢_¢ stogies dangling from unaccustomed
B nothing much gets by him. Six foot ae
Pex six of height anda long reach enable A four-pie Ue cbeticatts tad ba teres
Mit to ve tates is with Semi Naugler occupied one of the corners
‘€ase. Mit will be the team's big scor-| | 4 contented couples danced around
te threat this year as well as a main- the floor from nine tillone. The notes
eg stay on the defense. More power to of slow waltzes or hot fox trots filled
him. Mit is known among the squad Merste seetl dolce
as oe i‘ es ees. ;| The eats were served in due course,
ae oe ‘es on gle fee and were enjoyed by all, especially
Seach St ward post ae a IS YEAF | those who got there first, because they
SS ara a ide got all the cake and cookies. The
e can
; party was pretty quiet and little coffee
leather _ the a ne was spilt on either floor or vest.
ays big asset, re oe ie ga Disappointed upper-classmen peep- ie / floorwork and so ea. oe ed despairingly through the entrance
can still on 18 : protner a t€W!for the party was “strictly private,”
things. aa Ses ee ia and at least half a couple had to belong
z Don er. : Fame ats oe to Class’37. Several of these, annoyed
mage On eRe OrWare }ine to sShaTP-! at being rejected, salleyed outside and
_sponting has accounted . ates of removed the radiator caps from the
‘Dal’s wins, He has winged feet and a} 2:6 of their more lucky Brethren, and
deadly eye on the offense and is noted thus:many a caf cioved homeward at
-- for his defensive play and quick breaks. $c eed
of th
This is Don’s third year with Dal. A eee se phe tediator
cool head and a great lad to work with. days of anti-freeze.)
, ee Sam Fairstein: Sammy has lost} phe party was’skilfully arranged by
| -~_—s track of the number of times he has| Gorgon Thompson, class president
donned a Gold and Black uniform but Henry Ross, class treasurer, Betty Milhis iate return this season was a source ler, Roger Rowley and Leo Simmonds

cap (a thing quite necessary in these

 

 

 
  
  
 
   
 
 
    
  

 

ee of worry to his team mates. Sam|Chaperones for the evening were Dr.
= makes the scoring plays for Doug and} and Mrs. H. G. Grant, and Dr. and
is Don and meanwhile heaves in a few! Mrs. HL. Stewart.

i. |

_ Socks For M

| Come In

! Smart Patterns

| And Are Moderately
1 Priced At: Pair

Pe

i .

A regular EATON line of men’s
hosiery that ofters real value

to men who appreciate style
and quality at a moderate.......
price! Knitted of all wool bot- [I
any yarns in diamond patterns
and shades of browns, blues
and greys. Full fashioned and
of English make.

Sizes 10 to 113

EATON'S Main Floor

Oo

LIMITED

 

SPORT

COMMENT

McGill have an enviable record in
hockey so far this season. In their
Intercollegiate matches they have yet
to be defeated. In the Montreal
Junior League out of seven games they
have won six and played one draw with
St. Frances Xavier. They have been
scored on 15 times but have notched
up 75 goals against their opponents.

The Interfaculty Boxing Meet will
take place on Feb. 10th. Law should
be well represented as should be Arts
and Medicine. As Dal are holding the
Maritime Intercollegiate Championships this year the Interfaculty Meet
should produce some good fights.

The number turning out for Girls’
Basketball has been very disappointing.
A large grant has been given by the
Council for the team, but is it worthwhile if only eight or ten turn out?

I wonder if the Council will give the
Girl’s Hockey Team another large
grant this year? About a half dozen
turned out last year, no games were
played and the Forum hired regularly.

Perhaps it would be a better idea to
spenu the money on an outdoor rink.
A great many of the students seem to
be in favor of an outdoor rink. It
would be very much better for Interfaculty Sport (Hockey not Softball).
The weather this year would be suitable and perhaps George ‘‘Pep’’ Thomp- | *
son could convince the Freshmen to
help with the snow, etc.

Interfaculty Softball has been having a few difficulties. Personally I
think the Interfaculty Manager should
resign or else the two sectional leaders
play off for the title. |

HERE AND THERE.

Flo Keniston is certainly showing a
lot of class on the basketball floor.

“Red” Payne has rheumatism as
well as a sprained ankle.

“‘Curly’’ Atwood doesn’t think much
of this column neither does anybody
else.

‘“‘Parson’’ Anderson hopes to have
the girls in shape next week. They
are showing pretty good form right
now, in fac in fact,

    
   
     
   
       

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year

 

GARRICK

“NIGHT FLIGHT’’
AN ALLSTAR CAST
with
Helen Hayes, John Barrymore
Lionel Barrymore, Clark Gable
Robert Montgomery

FRI. SAT.

“The Way to

Love”
Featuring

MAURICE CHEVALIER

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dajhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each,
Write or call for Calendar or advise.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

January 18th, 1984

 

MEET T WANDERERS AT “Y” SATURDAY ©

 

INTERCOLLEGIATE LEAGUE Hockey Managers

SCHEDULE.
Jan.16th—St. Mary’s vs. Tech.
Jan. 23rd—Dal vs. Kings.

Jan. 30th—Dal vs. St. Mary’s.
Feb. 6th—Tech vs. Kings.

Feb. 18th.—Tech vs. Dal.

Feb. 20th—St. Mary's vs. Kings.

The games will start at 7.30 sharp
followed by a skating session of two
hours. The music for the skaters will
be provided by one of the best city

bands.

 

oo

Dal Tigers
Beat King’s
in Workout

 

The Dal Tigers defeated Kings in a
practice game last Friday at the Forum
by the score of 4-nil. Both teams took
things easy and omy occasionally showed some rea: hockey.

Da: started Johnny Carrot! goal,
Connors and Bent defending and Buckley, Cole and Crosby as a forward ine. |
This iiné worked well with Bucklev
making most of the.plavs. The first
goal came as a result of a nice individual rush by Buckley.

The next line used was Cappy Cooke
centre, Biscay Ellis right and Russ
Bryant left wing. Biscay and Cappy
teamed up well and secured a pair of
goals on nice combination plays. Bryant rushed well and seemed to fit in
well with Biscay and Cappy.
hard drive
ever.

Smith left wing. This iine teamed up
great with young Grant proving very
tricky. Ed Cohen showed up well at
right wing andshould press Cole hard
or this position. Smith at left is as
dependable as ever and should secure a
permanent berth.

Bob Donohue, Don Cameron and
Hal Flynn comprised the next attacking line. Hal Connors teamed up with
Bobby Donohue to get the fourth and
last goal. Flynn at left wing showed
up well and bothered the opposing
goalie with his hard shot. Donohue
played a nice game at right wing skating fast and stick-handling well.

Bob Hatfield alternated on the defense with Connors and Bent, and used
his poke-check effectively. To the
writer however, Bob is not showing up
as well on the defense as he would if
used as a forward.

Vic Kyte divided time with Johnny
It should
good battle between these two for

Carroll between the posts.
be a
the regular position of goalie.

Coach Oyler is having quite a job
handiing the 38 or 40 who turn out to
practices but he is well assisted by
‘Tiger’? MacKasey the assist-manager.

Herb Grant manager is ‘‘out’’ with the
flu while ‘‘Red” Payne erstwhile ‘“‘keeper of the keys’’ has a sprained ankle.

Transportation is provided by means
of a bus which leaves the ‘‘gym”’ at
12.30 on Tues. & Thurs. and 1 sharp on
Fridays.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 

SAT-Mon-Tues.

NOEL COWARD’S
“Design For Living”’

Frederic Marsh, Gary Coopex
Miriam Hopkins
Edward Everett Horton

Wed-Thur-Fri
MYRNA LOY

“The Conquering Sex’’
MAX BAER,
PRIMO CARNERA
JACK DEMPSEY
WALTER HUSTON

 

Ellis

e was as much in evidence as

Coach Oyler then used Ed Cohen
right wing, Jack Grant centre and Art

Hold Meeting

A meeting oft ttle Interfaculty Hockey
Managers was held in Mr. Stirling’s
office on Saturday. A league was
drawn up and it was decided to have
the league the same as in footballr
Doug Bent, Vice-Pres. of the D. A. A.
C. was in the chair and he will act as
officia: referee. Those attending were
Jack Mi.ler, Law; Don Cameron, Arts;
Ed Stewart, Frosh; Gib Holland, Med;
D. B. Sutherland, Eng; Harry Herman,
Comm.

 

 

Freshmen Choose
Hockey Manager

Ata meeting recently held, the Freshmen elected Edgar Stewart manager
of the hockey team for the interfaculty
league, while Henry Ross was chosen
manager of the basketball representatives of the class.

The minutes of the previous meeting
were read by Mary Watson, and the
class party was announced. An announce ment of training in boxing under
Mr. Stirling for the coming bouts was
made. It was decided that a manager
would be chosen at a later date. The
| president also said that efforts were
being made to secre class pins,
samples had been sent for,

Dr. Pelluet - 
(Continued from page 1)

and

 

This experiment suggests fantastic
possibilities. Imagine being able to
have a choice of one's hair; or be able
to buy a piece ot skin from a person with
executive capacity, have it grafted in
one’s brain, and it changes to brain retaining its former executive character.
The question has arisen as to what is
the reason for the organized development of the embryo, when this material
is grafted to it. Is it due only to the
grafted material or to some influence
ot the host? Isit due to only a portion
of the tissue or to all portions? A
series 01 experiments have been instituted to investigate the question. The
results showed that the capacities of
induction of the nervous tissue and
primitive intestines are very much
alike as regards the localization of their
regions. Itseemsalso, thatin the cases
of indiction, the host does not exert
any influence on the type of indiction.
The nature of the organizing material
which induces development is- being
investigated since it is believed that it
will be of a chemical nature. Organic
material, when implanted into Triton
entbryos has been seen to induce nervous Organs; but even so, it does not
answer the question as to what causes
the orderly proces cf development to |
take place.

From this mass of experimental material, there arises a question of great
theoretical and philosophical interest,
at least for biologists. Are all the parts
of the future individual in the present |
single cell, in the tertilized egg, and is
development merely also an. orderly
unfolding of these potential parts?
That is the idea of preformation.

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount
Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for com
 

 

plete Suit or Overcoat.

 

NICKERSON & CREASE

Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

CASINO

SATURDAY—MONDAY
TUESDAY
January 20-22-23

“FROM
HEADQUARTERS”

with
GEORGE BRENT
MARGARET LINDSAY
EUGENE PALLETTE

 

 

 

 

 

Undergrads —
Meet Defeat

In Badminton

Last week a strong team of graduates defeated the undergraduates in a
badminton tournament by a= score
of 21 to 16 at the Studley gymnasium.
Badminton is rapidly becoming the
students favorite pastime. There
scarcely an afternoon when the entire
six courts available are not in constant
demand. On Saturday afternoons the
courts are reserved for the Dalhousie
Badminton Club and match play is
conducted. Lots of interest is being
shown both men’s and women’s
ladder tournaments. This novel arrangement enables the students to
run the tournament without supervision. Fifty-six players compete in
the men’s section and thirty-two in the
women’s. Vic. Oland has never been
ousted from No. 1 position while Don
Saunderson has worked into second
Sheila Winfield and Lil Fraser
rank Nos. 1 and 2 in the ladies section.
In addition to this display of enthusiasm for the game the facultv also go in
strong for it and participate frequentlv
in tournaments. “Spec”
Murray soon major
sport

 

 

is

in

place.

Manager
witl make it a
maybe.

or

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL
MEETING.
Mr. Stirling’s Office
12 O'clock Saturday
Sept. 20, 1934.
All Interfaculty nianagers must be
present as a schedule will be drawn up.

 

 

JOHN TOBIN & CO

LIMITED

~

Wholesale
Tea

Grocers

Merchants

HALIFAX, CANADA

 

 

 

iMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per Ib
FLAT PIECES 7c. per Ib.
Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough

for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

L 2300
Halifax Steam Laundr

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST

Y.M.C.A, Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

 

Halifax Transfer

PHONE B.7138

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

 
