  
 
 

da Ny

ao

7

he

+

= 4

 

 

  

To Lecture
At Dal Gym:

 

The invention of writing has had a
greater influence on the uplitting of civilization, than all the battles fought and
the constitutions drawn up by man
since the dawn of time. Such was the
opinion expressed by Professor E. W.

Nichols, of the Department of Classics
_of Dalhousie Univrsity, in an address

on “Science and Letters” delivered be“ee a large audience in the Dalhousie
Gymnasium last Friday evening. The
speaker was introduced by Professor
J. H. L. Johnson. Thip was the fifth
of a series of lectures being given in the

Gymnasium under the auspices of the

University,

_The speaker declared that language
exists only in the mind of man, and the
problem of definition lies at the bottom

of many difficulties man finds in ex-},

pressing himself clearly. Universality.
of definition among the different languages of the World is still one of the

greatest problems that people have to
face, since statements of fact and opin
ion are all that are to be obtained from
the dictionaries.

- Professor Nichols said that the ancients were intensely interested in obtaining a clear nveans of expression,
even as we are today. Picture writing

- was the firstform of expressing ones

‘thoughts, and it was outstanding in
that it was similar all over the World,
and thuscould be understood by peoples

‘one of the distinctly human
-inventic being one of the chief
Rais that distinguish him
from the animals, the speaker pointed
out. Speech and — language is a. great

aid to science, since it gives the scient ist
the means by which he may make

-known the result of his researches to;
the World at large.

The writer who wishes to have nis
works widely read and enjoyed must be
very careful in the style of writing
which he uses, Professor Nochols declared. He must be caretul in hiS
choice of words to make sure that they
contain the exact shade of meaning
which he wishes to convey. Also he
must make sure of the clearness an
appropriatemess of the phrases he uses
to express himself, and last but not

least he must have something really |

important so say.

 

Dr. F. H. Sexton

_ Heard In Address OXFORD, O, Feb. 8—Anent a

| Prof Nichols |

| Vanish.

ete ne ts

 

 

Gazette Meeting
Today At Noon

The regular weekly meeting of the
Gazette staff will be held on Thursday at noon in the Gazette office,

ee:
‘ Cale oe

~~,

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, CEE SLAP ¥. 15th, 193

 

Frosh-Junior

Debate Postponed

Scheduled to take place last Tuesday,
the Freshman-Junior debate, final in
the Bennett Shield series,has been post
Studley. All members ot the staff are] poned until sometime next week, pend
requested to be present.

 

Ex-Dalhousian Is
Author of Article

The ‘‘Monist” for January, 1934, a
philosophical journal of high repute
published in Chicago and London, contains an article by Mr. T. A. Goudge
Malcolm Honour Student and M. A.,
Dal, ’382. Mr. Goudge who is at present studying for his Ph. D. in philosophy at the University of Toronto and
is holder of a scholarship there, wrote
the article while at Dalhousie last year,
and it is@ tribute to his work that the
“‘Monist” should accept it.

The article is entitled ‘‘Some realist
Theories of Illusion.” An illusion in
perception, i. e., misinterpreting an object or seeing one that is not really existent, is difficult to explain by a Realist
theory of knowledge. The Realists
(in theory of knowledge) assert as
fundamental that matter exists independently of perception and consequently that the act of perception can
change in no way the object of perception. How, then, can we account for
an oar appearing bent on being halfsubmerged in water or for the pink
rats of a victim of delirium tremens?

Mr Goudge examines and refutes
three theories of illusion, that of the
Realist, Prof. Alexander, that of the
‘New- Realists, and that of the Critical
Realists. A typical sentence during
the process is ‘‘In Short, if the bridging
process takes place as Prof. Alexander
says it-does, all illusory appearances
If, on the other hand, as is
most certainly the case, they do exist,
then his theory cannot be regarded as
ultimately valjd.’’ Mr. Goudge concludes by offering some suggestions
and theories of his own, stillona Realist
basis. For these, he does nct claim
‘complete Sality.”” yet they are not
open to obvious weaknesses and may
indicate the way to an adequate solu
q| tion.

 

Miami Students
Do Some Tall

i he never utilizes.

ithe Students C ouncil i is run by a group

ing recovery of Miss Drummie, lady
representative on the freshman team,
Erie Murray leads the Freshman team,
while Ed Arab and Flo Keniston will
represent the Juniors. The subject is
“Resolved that the country offers more
opportunities to happiness than the
city,’

The date of the debate, when settled,
will be announced on the bulletin
boards.

Dictator Needed
Declares Writer

perhaps

 

The most prevalent and

truest criticism of a college education |

is that it supplies the student with a
considerable quantity of theories which
This lack of putting
into practice proved theories is not because the theories are in themselves
impractible but because the student
either through lethargy or lack of confidence fails even to experiment with
them. A brief survey of particular instances will justify the general asser- |
tion. For instance, though even the
beginner in economies understands the
elementary theory that a lowering of
the price of a commodity increases
the demand nevertheless a prominent
campus society whose members above

 

all should be acquainted with even ele
mentary economic theories charge exorbitant prices at their annual. ball.
The result is a lessening of demand,
small attendance and a deficit, After |
several years of great losses the Dalhousie year book has at least found a
business manager who is bold enough to |
put into practice this fundamental |
theory that a-lessening of the prices of |
an article results in greater demand)
and consequently larger profits.

The students complain that the Glee
Club is terrible, the Gazette worse and

of “old women.” Yet at Glee Club &
Student Council elections a distressingly small number show up to pass their
opinions.

| consider this an invaluable opportunity

Dal Takes Lead

| Acadia University

 

The one solution of the whole difficulty lies in the establishment of a
strong dictator capable of putting well
known theories into practice. His

first act would be the abolishment of |

the Student’s Council. He then would
abolish all student liberty, force the
various societies to lessen the price of
their dances, compel a complete turn
v
Figuring out for all athletics and last but not

$10 fee for a diploma, The Student, |

Mrs. Dr. F. H. Sexton delivered a) Miami University undergraduate paper
very interesting address to the Dal- suggests the University purchase 300
housie Sociology Club yesterday after-} sheep for about $2,700.

noon on the subject of ‘Settlement

Houses.”
ed by the President of the Club, D. T.

The paper figures the school could

Mrs. Sexton was introduc-| se}] the mutton for about $3,000, heads

and hoves for $60, and sheepskins left

Haviland, who drew attention to the | over after the diploma-making for about

fact that Mrs. Sexton had done gradu-! ¢1 500.

ate work on sociology at McGill Uni
Not to mention the wool.

Thus, it concludes, “every senior

versity during the years of 1929 and/ will have his diploma and in addition

1930.

Mrs. Sexton said that the settlement
house movement was started by a
- group of Oxford University students.
The movement began to gain headway

he will have a dividend of $16.06.”

about 18738. The speaker declared| We wonder who:

that the difference between a settle
The freshette was that went up to a

ment house and a mission is that a mis- | sophomore and said ‘‘Come up and seize

gion gives religious training, while set-| me sometime.”

tlement houses are absolutely non-gecetarian, and they serve the whole
community. The University  settle_ ment house, at McGill University was
the first house of this kind to have a

You said it to the
wrong one, I think.

’ Who goes around in the hall flash
least force the library committee to
provide free ink. Thus Dalhousie
‘would enter into a more prosperous
and at least a more enlivening era.

—_—_eoS—
New Officers.

M. K. Kenny of Toronto was elected by acclamation to his second term
as President of the N. F.C.U.S. The
new Vice-Presidents are Mark Collins
of the University,of British Columbia
and R. Lanthier of the University of
Montreal. Percy G. Davies, M. P.,
formerly of the University of Alberta,
and the, prime mover when the Federation was established in 1926, was re
elected to the position of SecretaryTreasurer. The term of office of the
new Executive will extend to the next
meeting of the Executive Council in
December 1938.

 

Has Bernie Ralston been out
to any basketball practices? ;
Ans: Yes, he has been out with St.

milk and bay station, and it is at the| ing a light out into the leas in front of | John Trojans, Y. M. C. A., Dalhousie,

‘present time run by a staff of five per-| the Hall? Bill says you can’t get any} Acadia and the Wanderers.

sons. She stated that in running a} privacy are these days.

settlement house you had to be careful
pee your work does not conflict with
_ the work of the Y. M. C. A. in the disict. Dr. ee He et thanked the

 

If I hear
of any others I will let you know.
Has Charlie Miller ever done
anything peculiar?
Ans: Yes, he was seen shovelling

Will take “Red's” position in the | snow off the sidewalk clad only in py
_ymn.
g

jamas and bath robe,

Visitor Will
Give Address

To Students’

Dr. Jessie R. Wilson of New York

iscoming. Hisarrivaliseagerly awaited by Dalhousie students. He is general secretary for America of the Student Volunteer Movement, which is a
part of the S. C. M. in Canada. Dr.
Wilson is goin, to discuss the most vita]
religious problems which are facing the
college student of today.

On Friday evening at 8 o’cl ock, in
Charles Street United Church, he wiil
speak to a mass meeting of the United
Church Young Peoples’ Societies of

 

 

Halifax. This interesting meeting will
be thrown open for all students. Refreshments will be served. Dr. Wil
son’s subject will be,
Missions?”

“Why Foreign

 

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

Coming Events

Of The Week

Thurs. Feb. 15—Students Forum: “‘Should Canada Pledge
Herself to Maintain Peace
by Means of Force?’’ Room
3 Arts Bldg., 12.30 o’clock.
Interfaculty Softball. Arts
vs. Theologs. Gym. 2 0’clock
Class’36 Party. Lord Nelson
8.30.

Sat. Feb. 17—Students Retreat,
Pine Hill, 2.30-10.30.

Sun. Feb. 18—Pine Hill Theological Society. ‘‘What the
Church Believes Concerning

Science.’’ st Baptist Church

8.30.

 

Saturday afternoon and evening a
isto beheld at Pine Hill. In the after- |
noon at 3 o'clock the subject of the
address will be, ‘‘What is a Christian
experience, and how may we have it?’’
This will be followed by d:scussion, recreation and supper at the Residence.
In the evening the subject will be “The
Practicality of Christian Ideals.”

Sun. Feb. 18—Universal Day of
Prayer for Students, Dr. H.
L. Stewart, St. David’s
Church, 7 p. m.

Tues. Feb. 20—Hockey: Dal.
vs. St. Mary’s. Play off
series.

 

We know that many are interested
and concerned in these matters, and we

 

Arts-Law Battle

 

to gain wider knowledge and to get our
thinking on such questions more defi- |
nite. Ccmeandsee if we are not right. |
Registration which costs 25 cents closes |
Thursday night.

Register with one of the following,
May Burgess, Eirene Walker, Grace
Baird, Walter Mutch, Dougias Allen.

ee
: 4

 

 

In City League :

WOLFVILLE, Feb. 183—A brilliant
Dalhousie basketball team that could
make mistakes tonight handed |
a 47 to 29 defeat. |
The victory lifted the Halifax colleg- |
ians into a first place berth in the Halifax City Two former St
John boys provided the fireworks to;
night as Bernie Ralston was high scor- |
er tor Dal with 14 points and Armstrong
Acadia freshman,
the homesters.

All the thrills came in the first period
when the lead changed back and forth
continually. Acadia grabbed a 10 to
3 lead from the outset but could not
hold the margin as the Dal boys began
to click. As the half ended Dal went
out in front 20 to 15. In the last half
the Thomas-coached squad provided a
sparkling exhibition of shooting and af
round play, while the Acadians barely
missed the doomed circle on countless
occasions.

Referees—Bevil
merson.

Acadia—tF orwards,
B. Armstrong 12,

few

League.

 

sank 12 points for

Piers and B. Em
B. Balcom 2;
Kk. Cameron 1, $
Pitt; J. Wilson 5, Howlett’
guards, Ellsworth 6, B. McLeod 8.
Dalhousie—Forwards, Bauld 11;
Crease, D. Crease 2, Ralston 14; centre
Mil
centres,

Musgrave 6; guards, Anderson, §
ler, Gladston 2, Fairstein 4.

a,

i

Soph Dance

The Sophomore Class is holding a
class party in the Lord Nelson Hotel
tonight. Plans made by the committee in charge lead to the belief that the
party will be a delightful and merry
one. Jerry Naugler’s orchestra is all]
set for the occasion and promises to give
some of his classiest music.

Don Saunderson will be master of
ceremonies if there are any. Judging
by the notice board Randolph CousinsHix seems to be making a big effort
to add his smiling countenance to the
list of guests.

 

| Arts then turned on the steam,

To 2 All Draw

In a regular fixture of the Interfaculty Hockey league played at the
Forum last Tuesday Arts and Law
battled to a two all draw. Due to the
very poor ice the game was somewhat
slow but nevertheless provided some
nice hockey.

About midway in the first canto
Miller opened the scoring for Law from

mix-up in front of the Arts nets.

Garten had no choice to save due to
the many players in front of him.
but
couldn’t beat MacLellan.

The second period opened faster
with the Artsmen trying hard to score.
About midway in the period Cameron
scored from the wing to make the count
one-all.

The last frame provided some very
spotty hockey. Healy combined with

‘ MacKay to put the Artsmen one up.

Just before the game ended Potter
Oyler scored on a long low shot to
make the count 2-all.

For the Lawyers, Miller, Oyler and
MacLellan were outstanding while

Healy, Joe MacDonald and Garten
played bang up hockey for the Artsmen. Doug Bent refereed to the satis
faction of both teams.

 

Freshmen Class

Select Class Pin

The Freshmen Class have selectec
their class pin. At a recent meeting
attended by the smallest crowd yet, a
small gold D with a guard bearing the
numbers ‘'87’’ was chosen by a large
majority,

Clamorous cries for another class
party were heard throughout the meeting, but it was decided to wait till a
future meeting where a larger representation might be expected before
anything definite was done about the
matter.

Gordon Thompson as usual beamed
on the gathering from his seat of honor

as president. Mary Watson, class
secretary, read the minutes of the last
meeting.
Seeasonbeeee ts ot
NOTICE

The lecture of Dr. Hamilton
Fyfe, Principal of Queen’s
University, scheduled for this
Friday evening has been postponed due to the illness of the
lecturer.

 

 

tte

No. 16

Dal Team To
Debate With

Harvard Soon

ies ieee

 

 

Harrison Cleveland, first year law
student and last year’s gold medalist
at Kings, was chosen in the trials last
week to lead the Dal team which will
debate against a Harvard team on
March 2 on the subject ‘“‘Resolved that
Hitlerism is a benefit to the German
people.”” Irving Rubens, a first year
man, was selected to be the other mentber of the Dal team.

The turnout for the trials, consideri ing
the team which is coming here, was disappointingly small to the Sodales
executive, who have been working
particularly hard this year to create
an interest in intercollegiate debating.
Amongst those who tried out were Ed.
Arab, Nathan Green, Fraser Bentiey.
Dave Redmond, and D. B. Sutherland.
The judges were Profs. Pearson and
Bennett and T. D. MacDonald.

According to an announcement from
the executive, a Porto Rico team will
be here on March 12, and are anxious
to debate with Dalhousie. Pending
more information from them, howe SVEF,
no trials have as yet been called, The
subject of this debate has not been determined.

“THE FORGOTTEN MAN”

Its a sad, sad story I’m telling,

A story that’s hard to believe,

I'd tell it in words clear and simple

As the General told it to me.

He was roaring and raving, mad
with rage,

With a terrible scowl on his face,—

No longer so mild asa gentle child,

He seemed like another man.

*“You know I’m weak from the life
I’ve led,

I’m no longer young and spry,

I’d hoped, by playing a game each
day,

To get stronger by and by.

But it seems the world’s against me

For I’d half the battle won,

When a new rule was made, on account of a maid,

That soiled my daily fun.

It seems that he, whose guiding
hand,

Was a true and helpful aid—

Has found a new way to help us

Up the troublesome grade.

He was walking around his large domain,

With Lester as his guide,

When he saw the gym (that house
of sin),

And halted in his stride.

He stood and gazed with admiring
eyes,

At this mixture of mortar and stone;

For it is a lovely sight to behold,

This place that ‘‘Red’”’ calls home.

At last he turned and mounted the
steps,

While Lester opened the door;

And he went inside, with justified
pride,

To see what they used it for.

Boys and girls were running around

They were playing the usual sports,

But the thing that raised the President’s ire,

Was a co-ed, playing in shorts,

Out he went and marched to the
office.

With never a glance behind,

And there soon appeared, as everyone feared,

A rule that was meant to be kind.

“The boys and girls must play
alone,

They cannot play together—

Your father wouldn’t sanction it,

And neither would your mother.’’

 
  
     
     
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
    
   
 
   
  

W. H. JOST, B. A.
B. 5B18.

 
 

HARRY SUTHERLAND, 'B5487.
? James MacIntosh.

. .

SPORTS |
-EDITOR—TED CREASE, B5737.
"Associates: Donald P. Cameron.
~ Ruth Skaling.

GIRES EDITOR: MARTHA KENISTON.

_

4

ee fe a iates: Mary Simmonds. analysis, as is advocated by Toronto.
pik 2 rt ay Le Merle Purtill. Underlying the idea, is the belief that
: pe 3 : BUSINESS fee EN: the student, whomthey consider as a

Assistant Manager

THE N. F. C. U. S.

| The recent ecintae of the Council of the Bidets to continue Dalhousie’s membership i in the National Federation of Candian University Students is one which deserves general
approval. In these days of unbalanced budgets the N. F. C. U.S.
in company with other federal organizations, is under fire. The
argument is an old one—that the benefits of membership do not
_warrant the cost. The argument is easily urged, for the cost is
as tangible as a cold cash payment can be, while the resultant benefits and privileges are apparent only to those who take trouble to

ae

      
  
 

) ND. “CR. MACDONALD. HOWARD C. OXLEY, B.A.|to many mental defects and diseases,
! B, 2548

   

Views aad If 7 and

College
Comm ent

Abuse

 

COUNCIL REFORM
Psychiatrist Wanted.

The council is the most suffering body
on the campus; not even the President
comes in for more criticism. But un
Psychology, asa science, has advanced
greatly in the field of mental hygiene.

In spite of its Obvious successes and doubtedly much of this criticism is

Bor ae Stod ae ctires there are still many sceptics who justified. To the average student, $10

“J. L. Dubins scoff at the work of the Psychiatrist is a large sum to pay for the Gazette,

et . C..W.-Burchell. as nonsense: .Nevértheless the ranks ee Par cie couple of foot= of these deriders are evidently being | ball games and one dance. Yet these
$ NEWS DEPARTMENT. depleted at the University * of Toronto | 4"¢ about all that the majority of Dal
where the appointment of a psychia-| housie students receive from the coun
trist to the faculty staff is being advo
cated. His duty would be to advise
and consult with students on mental
problems that might trouble them.

Many of the larger Colleges on the continent have Psychiatrists on their staff
but they are not there merely for psycho
cil. Itiseasy to argue that they could
get more if they would only turn out

for the various teams, but it is equally

j still the majority of the students would
receive no more than the mentioned
benefits.

What isthe remedy? For yearseach
new council has promised a more equitable distribution of the fees; but ‘‘nothing ever happens.’”’ Probably nothing
ever will happen as long as we have our
present system of council representation
though one wonders if a reformed council might not do better. The Arts and
Science faculty is well represented, possibly in favour of the girls on a per
capita basis; but there is a discrimination against the faculties of law and,
more especially of medicine. Representatives who should be speaking for
law and medicine are, instead, speaking
for the. baby faculties of dentistry,
engineering, and commerce. In dentistry, for instance, twenty-odd students
have a delegate, while 175 medicos|

highly-strung individual, is subjected

as the alarming rate of student suicides
testify. Also that the students face
problems that other people their own
age might not encounter. Inability
to study correctly is in itself a difficulty
that some individuals are never able
to solve. Sex ,problems, inferiority
complexes, failure in examinations, are
only a few of the barriers that some students must overcome; and they believe
the only logical way out is the consultation with a Psychiatrist.

True suicides on the Dalhousie campus do not, as yet constitute a problem

true that, even if everyone did turn

    
  
  
 

in themselves but nervous breakdowns
and approaching quizzes or exams and
other forms of mental disintegration
might conceivably lead to this extreme
measure to extricate oneself from an
apparently insolvable dilemma. If such
difficulties can be smoothed over by

_ enquire pe the matter. Yet the advantages of memberships are
very rea and certainly under the modified levy system introduced
this year yield a goodly return of the Dalhousie investment therein.

The mere circumstance that some fifty other countries mainé te tain national student federations would Jead one to believe that
__ the central organizations serve a useful purpose. This was a lead
have only two-1 in90. The commerce
and engineering students have a double
representation, since besides their own
man, they vote on the Arts and Science
class representatives.

Who said “‘rep. by pop?”’. But who
will move to give the older men more

   
    
 

Nig if a

ay aS

; Rs

ing ae put forward when, perhaps none too early in the day,
the N. C. U. S. was established in 1926. The Canadian Federation real been hampered tiom the first by the great geographical
_ dis.ances lying between the member universities. Yet the very

: circumstance of distance, leading as it does to a certain provincial
_ ism in outlook, creates a very real need for a national organization

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
    
  
    
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
    
    
     
  
  
 
  
    
  
  
   

SN
. 7
ee | Fa

ob

ie a
“ ae = *

*y . - J} 7

Bi

a’

sa on Or.

- ae

a,

i. 6 eo
is cooke

é hall

   

Saal te, > ignore it. |

 

Canadian students. If the national as opposed to the
1 outlook is worth anything at all it should be fostered par/ among the various student bodies. __
r the seven years of its existence the N. F.C. U.S, has
nd wantin ee ces its business. Its machingradually improved upon and the scope of its activi: irenden. © “In j sareular the enlightened contribucertain individuals, among whom the Secretary-Treasurer,
- Mr. Percy- Davies, M. P., is pre-eminent, has built the Federation
to a serviceable institution in student life.
pe ady destined to go on from strength to strength.

qemong,

LAUT]

‘petty economies.

INTEREST APPEARS TO BE LACKING

oe St i8.a curious thing that Dalhousie students for the most part
-and perhaps the Canadian student—show very little concern

about the question of war and peace. European visitors have fre
_ quently expressed surprise at the apathy of the Canadian student
| It may be that we feel very

secure within the boundaries of the ‘‘most secure” country, henc- me
Or

in this regard, and sought its cause.

the likelihood of war is too remote to command our attention.

perhaps we see nothing but futility in any efforts within our power
At any rate we are very prone to poke ridicule at the|

to make.
person who ventures to discuss the question with a serious face.
The view that war is something too remote to concern us is exreat! ill-founded.
eeperrence of nations any major military disturbance is bound
a involve war on a world scale—which includes Canada. Once let
war and we may rest assured that our personal goose
On our generation will fall the burden of shouldering
arms, and, should some of us survive that, it is the world in which
‘we are about to seek a living which will be knocked askew for our
further economic discomfiture. Incidents which might very well
Henite the powder-train are reported almost daily by the Press.
To call the matter remote is simply, ostrich fashion, to stick one’s
in the sand,

If we regard our puny efforts to wrestle with the question as
futile we are no doubt being unduly modest. Here we may take the
. postulate that war will and can be eliminated only by positive efwafert The successful effort must spring from an informed as well a
a powerful source. omprehension of the problem is quite properly the prevince of today’s student, who tomorrow may Le a powa who have most to gain if peace is attained and most to
lose if war breaks out again, are, oddly enough, best equipped with
the time and material to tackle the theoretical problem. But the
se eking-out ot a solution to the problem involves a modicum ot
rd th z—which is probably the reason that most of us are con
~ Canada

NEWMAN CLUB DANCE.

| dance, held at 106 Young Avenue, on
Feb, 8th.

everyone's enjoyment. Professor and
Mrs. ‘‘Big Jim” McDonald, J. P. Con
Wa Be Buckley were guests for the
ese.

The N. F.C. U.S. is!
It is a thing
_ much too important to be wrecked by sectional constitutions and

 

It may be accepted that with the prevalent

   
 
     
 

| Student Christian Movement as a part

   
 
 
 
 
 
 

It was a very enjoyable informal

Several novelty dances
|| *aeoee nn et the evening added to

nolly, Kelly Morton, Mrs. and Mr.

delegates on the CouncilSHIRREFF HALL AGAIN.

This column has deprecated Shirreff
Hall so much that we're beginning to
feel mean about the whole thing, and
it isn’t because there is a lot of sorority
parties coming off either. Perhaps we
can take up a cudgel in their behalf today. That name, ‘Shirreff’’ Hail seems
just a little too applicable in the Coeds view of the present state of affairs;
it has practically become a jail, whereas
the girls contend the only institution
they want to live in is marriage.. Now
that they have been refused permission
for key-leaves, late dances, and gambols on the gymnasium floor with’ the
boys, they wonder if life is worth livingafterall. Just how would the President feel if there was an epidemic of
suicides, what with the railway track
and the Arm so conveniently near.
Imagine the pathos;

One more unfortunate

Weary of breath

Rashy imfortunate

icone to her death.

But now we're getting sentimental.
However, the fact that their social life
dt.the games you may, if you Het a {is being “‘cabin’d, cribbed, and con
break, succeed: but aim to become an fined,” is not the chief cause of the Hall

editer, being prepared to work both girlsresentment. What stirs righteous
night and day.” anger in their usually placid breasts is

Bah eS the freedom of the town co-eds. For..
their ungallant swains, after escorting
them safely to their place of confinement, return to revel in the graces of
our local sirens. ‘‘Hell hath no fury
like a woman scorned,” and we wonder

psycho-analysis, then we endorse the
idea, whole-heartedly and we are willing to be crushed in the rush to be the
first ‘subject.

No Encouragement.

“The modern newspaper is a business
and like any other businessit isrunfora
profit and the quality of the copy suffers in consequence.” Thus spoke’ the
editor of a prominent paper to a group
of enterprising young journalists of the
Varsity. Incidently he dampened
the spirits of those journalistically
inclined by telling of the long hours
necessary and also of tne hard work
| which, they being college students,
might be too much for them. His address was anything but encouraging.
He went on to say that journalism is
not as glamorous as some people think,
because the reporter is not a participator in the many things going on
around him. It was admitted however
that the university graduate should
have an advantage, but from the speaker’s Own experience such was not the
As a parting shot, he added,—
“if you are determined to try your hand

Camera Proof.

A University of the middle west has
had its share of tales concerning sleeping students and even one of a profes- | . : 7 ;
sor dropping off to sleep in his class, just how long the boy-friend is going to
However, a professor of the Geology get away with this sort of thing. At
department decided that positive proof any rate the Hall girls can claim some
eb thade Git: delared lacideats was accea just cause of dissatisfaction; considering
‘sary. Accordingly when a student pil- the advantages the town girls have anylowed his head on his arm and escaped | ¥*Y through entertaining in their
the reslinol reality, the professor dish- homes, this discrimination is the final
ed from the lecture room to return al 5 @- What is the use in a girl comfew moments later bearing his camera, | ‘7% ne college it he can't get a man,
commonly used’ on fields trips, Care-|©¥e" though it is reported there are
fully taking aim he shot the slumbering only five eligi ble.
student, to record undeniably, proof |. But now this column has roused the

of the occurrence for posterity. ire of the town girls—what a job to get
along with these wimmin!

Special S. C. M. Service

Siinday 18th is the Universal Day of
Prayer for Students. The Dathousiel

 

eration is composed of the Student
Christian Movements in all parts of the
world, and, as a world organization, it
emphasizes the international side of
life and tries to create thinking among
students along the lines of nationalism
communism, peace, and war and how
each of these is antagonistic or complementary to the teachings of Jesus. It
is a notable fact that the W. S. C. F.
was the only organization to maintain
a friendiy attitude between its various
members during the Great War.

of the World’s Student Christian Federation is to observe this day by holding a special student service in St.
David’s Church, Grafton St., on Sunday at 7.00 p.m. The special preacher
will be Dr. H. L. Stewart who is well
qualified to emphasize the international
aspect of student life. Arthur Long
will sing a special sclo number.

The Word’s Student Christian F ed
a ee ee ere pera ee a, a en ee

The Innocent

Bystander

 

What with all the signs plastered
allover the gymit’s getting to look more.
and more like our favourite poolroom’
Expect to see soon a ‘Keep Smiling’
sign and perhaps during exams a ‘‘Men
at Work” flag. Of course the Delta
Gamma géntry could do a nice crossstitched wall motto which would give
it that old-fashioned touch so much in
favour just now—lIt will be soon be
there only form of diversion the way
things are shaping. Can just see them
of a Sunday afternoon sitting on their
haunches at the Hall tatting away and
the male habitues holding up their
hands while the skeins are being wound,
and in the corner someone plugging
away atazither. The thought almost
makes us homesick.

“‘T Was in the!

 

The new gym song:
Nude.”

The Saturday night supper dance
are very popular just now—that the
Delta Gamma dance is approaching.

The old war-cry of ‘‘Fireman, Save
my child” causes us to wonder if the
President is a fireman?

We would like to assemble all those
chronic gripers who have written letters
to the editors telling them how to run

 

   
 

 
  

‘CARICATURES
With Reverence
For None

BELL NICKERSON.

CARLETON

Everyone knows that ‘‘Nick” is the
head of the Chemistry Department
butit is only the girls of the University who appreciate his true virtues;
the boys recognize his abilities as a
professor, but do not realize what a
perfect gentlemen he is. In short he
takes his female pupils under his wing
and they look on him as a father, and
one to whom they can go and tell their
troubles.

“Nick” always has a chocolate peppermint in his pocket which he produces
upon occasion and apologizes profusely because he must offer it with his
fingers. He hasa voice that melts the
hearts of all women. One day one of
his admirers said in all sincerity
“Nick looks just like a ‘Kewpie’.”

Our beloved professor should really
have been a doctor. He would, I imagine, have a perfect bedside manner.
It is invariably the girls working in the
laboratory that burn themselves with
acid or cut their hands with glass tubing, not because they are particularly
clumsy, but because it is really worth
it to have Nick put soothing ointment
on the wound, bandage it in his fatherly way, and sympathize so that one
forgets completely one's infirmities.

‘Nick’ is indispensible to the University. We often wonder if his wife
objects to the admiration he gets from
all women who know him, and ifshe
realizes that her husband is a veritable

the paper and let them edit it for one Don Juan.

week. But asthe Gazette would probably be as rotten, and as ignorantly |
conceived, as their letters, maybe it is|
just as well to let the matter drop.
It's a thought though, and that is something none of them has ever had.

 

 

U. K .C Notes

It hurts our sense aesthatie
To see bloomers on girls acrobatic; The recent production of the King’s
For badminton is certainly platonical| College Dramatic Society was given
And Authority makes itself comical | the enthusiastic support of the students
When it considers it in light anatomical! whose diligent work made it the finSo let’s give a Houray for the shorts of lancial success it was. Their co-operto-day ation was rewarded by a large attendAnd three for what they'll wear to-|ance at each performance. From a
mortow! spectator’s point of view, too, the play
was a most enjoyable presentation.
The acting of the Misses D. Lowman
and E. Walker and Messrs. H. WainMY CAREER AS A NUDIST. wright, K. Eaton and W. Douglas,
is who were well-supported by the reFirst of all I wish to say that I didn’t maining members of the cast, was obadopt Nudism voluntarily. it was more | viously the result of constant practice
or less forced on me. They took my| and enthusiasm. Great credit goes to
shirt in the stock market, then took my | all those who spent time and effort makshorts in the Gym, and that took my ing this play such a delightful enterbreath away, so there I was, all out of | tainment.
breatn and frightened to death, but not ——_—_—
for long. I just walked right in the The Divinity Students of the ColNudist colony, bold as brass, no end. lege observed two Quiet Days recently
Figuratively speaking, of course, be-| in the President’s Lodge. The Revcause there’s just as much of me as|erend Canon Young of Saint John spent
there is of anybody else, and I can| some time with them and gave several
proveit, Well, | thought I had better | addresses.
get acquainted first and rub elbows
with the hoi-polloi, if you know what I
mean, so | started rubbing elbows—|!
my Cheek still hurts—Just then the
director (we call him that because he| of mugs who hang around at the girls’
always told us where to go) camé up| basketball practise. Soon darkness
and introduced me to everybody and] and hordés of mosquitoes descended,
soon I had made several fast friends—| and it was supper-time. After a brief
Life was very uneventful in the camp recreation period during which we wrote
and the time passed in a quiet sort of | letters, listened to the radio and so on
way. Weslept a lot of course because| we retired for the night, another day
it was run more or less as a rest cure,| experiencing the pleasures of Nudism
curing humans with sleep the way they | over—almost.
cure hams withsmoke orsugar. Many’s
the time I’ve had my hams in a sling
smouldering over a fire or in a nice
sweet jam—We all got along famously| Student feeling, as expressed in the
together and none of us thought the Queen’s University journal recently
slightest thing about not wearingclothes | appeared against ‘‘necking,” In an
We led a rather routine existence, one | editorial regarding ‘“‘formal necking’’
day being very much like the next day | (a formal is a college social function),
or vice-versa, After the morning dip|the paper said;
we had breakfast and then assembled} ‘‘The Science formal with its attend:
for a lecture where we learned points, | ant celebrations looms in the immediate
and pointers of Nature that only a true | offing. For the past few years, at all
Nudist can appreciate. Then for a/ faculty formals, by the time the dances
walk in the lovely park, resplendent | get well under way, lights are doused,
in blossoms, harbingers of a glorious | the room is in total darkness and smok
 

Spring! We returned in time for a ing reigns supreme, punctuated by

simple dinner, refreshingly exhausted. |

Afterwards we took naps for an hour
or so, and then came the games pericd.
During this time the entire colony got
together for such unsophisticated games
as Tag, Hide-and-Seek, and Puss-inthe-Corner(which wasn’t just Cricket
but was a sight more fun). Then all
down to our private lake for a glorious
swim, unhampered by cramping suits.
We were annoyed once or twice by vicarious pleasure-seekers who peered
over the protecting wall, the same sort

glowing cigarettes.

“We of Queen's pride ourselves on
our ability to acquire knowledge—
yet we indulge in childlike love-making which is not only promiscuous, but
is distinctly poor taste at an important
college function.

“It reflects unfavourably on ourselves
and adds nothing to our reputation
among Outsiders. The Science formal
comenitiee would do well to inaugurate
a ‘new deal’ by seeing that the lights
in the ‘dark room’ are kept burning!”

 
   
    
    
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
    
  
  
  
    
  
  
    
  
    
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
  

, ‘Days_may come and days may go
E P Bat I rave on forever.

oes i

oe.’ Ee: fae pea sanibueca that I engage
t e services of “Pineas’’ MacKintosh, |}
ar reporter (I mean he works for the
_ Star) and ‘Never Right’’ Miller of the
. Mail to help me with this column. I
have asked both these gentlemen and
Charlie. replied that he was satisfied
__ togoonasthey always have. You see
_ Jimmie gets the information and Chare writes the stories. This would be
ig baa impossible task because Jimmie
a ‘couldn't: possibly get any rapptenaae
a for this column.

Sy Pe

_ bal game. It was the first basketball]
game she ever saw.

7 = “What are these fellows doing out
_ there and why don’t they dress like
the” other players?”

r a “Those are the referees, my dee"
was thereply. ‘‘They control the game
acd see that no one commits any fouls,”
pe “Look at that handsome boy whith
the ball.” “The referee's. pointing at
Bs, That’s not nice.”
- “That's what they do when he has
pecemittod a foul.”

a at are those players doing on the
* side lines and why aren't they allowed
_to play too?”

“Now, listen dearie, they are subs or
 atich warmers and they are used in a
~ pinch. pt
= “Who i is that tall guy over there and
ot you ever hear such language?”
_ “He isthe Dal coach,”’ was the reply.
ae - “T always thought a coach had four}
> \ legs.’ ‘
peas s true, but Thomas iS an exception.”
=. “What is that euy yelling ‘‘checks”

tg = for? He must have worked in a

oe ~~ bank before he came to college?”

, .

they are supposed to mark.” —

if “Gee, Donny Bauld is fast isn't he?’
_ ee oe on. the ~ basketball floor,
for — ny KA :
W nae Mit j in et in she air
ae at?” i avs va
ees h, he Fist ats to get the ball
sO 0 no one else will ‘take it from him.”
“Tt don’t think that’s nice or fair.)
a "The other team should be allowed to
e ee gree it.’ 7

~

en:
eer | tt .
on Professor Page says that the people
- 7 ' in the Victorian age were so virtuous
~~ that they even covered the legs of the

tables. My, how time changes!

i oe
so Eddie Arab: Have you got ‘Sartor
Resartus?”’

Librarian: I don’t know if it’s any of
your business but I haven't been sick a
day in my life.

| Dae
ia argh,

i

Pim

r

t Tr
ae
Aer

George Smith, the eminent scot was
slapped at the Nova Scotian tea dance
Saturday night for being too close.

“4 AND
_ |GENTZEL

ae
="

 

 

Photographers to 
| Dalhousie University

 

Special Rates to
STUDENTS

| 24 Hour ‘Finishing Service

| See Our Pictorial Work
For Gifts

 

=

 

ore > |
or
sal a “ig
a a,
fee ee ris 3 oa
So en Ontong’
~ Rese 5 ‘ , ~
Se i a, ror Pe. Sat * ae
pa re eee bt ee
Se a Le

  

Af reshette at the Acadia-Dal Basket- |

, fi 2 Oh, no, he just wants to know who}

Se as

The Third Book’ Pine Hill Notes

Bunc

1. Now it came to pass that the
denizens of Med are a cunning tribe

}} and many there are amongst them who

aré slothful and these say unto themselves wherefore should we work in the
Labb of Dawnee, lo, we can remain
within our tent and let our comrades
dissect the Stiffe and thus gain time
thereby.

2. But Dawnee, surnamed Mayenland the Lean behold he is wise in the
ways of the world and thus it did occur that on a certain day a slothful
one was attempting to flee from the

‘Anatomee Labb when behold the voice
of the Lean one smote the air saying,
sluggard, hast thou completed thy dis
section and the other said humbly nay
my lord, nor the ztrukchirs.
3. And Mayenland said in anger

‘|get thee im and adhere to thy tasks.

Behold too, many of thy brethren have
thus attempted to pull my leg, yea verily, but let it be known unto ye all that
my Karrids, the fateful ones, know all
these things and the day of reckoning
draweth nigh again. Thus great consternation and fear arose in the hearts

of the guilty for the Lean One wasteth

no words,

4. And to the number of Commandments in the land two more have
been added. Thou mayest dance in
the inns, but private chambers thou
shalt not procure, and the Gazzyett

said Amen for it will corrupt the morals

of the populace.

5. And many mutterings were heard
against the Gazzyett and some said in
anger fie upon the rag for it doth besmirch the pure name of our maidens
yea the innocent ones who know not
the taste of liquors or strong drink
neither at the dances nor verily at the
Ferrhat parties.

6. And Ox-lee of the gifted speech
did raise his voice saying wherefore
Should we spread amongst the many
peoples tales of our people and Zkwires
the champion of the downtrodden quoth

‘Verily a slur has been cast on the in
mates of Shee- reff-yawl and the sedate
/ Major said in debate behold even if it
be true have not the women of Dal the
same right to guzzle beers and strong
drinks as the males and lo, the Law
tribe would silence the Gazzyett. But

; the females said not a word.

7, Andthe other commandment was
Thou shalt not endulge in Badn.in with |
the opposite sex save or the one day
of each week. And here again mutterings were heard by them who were
accustomed to skip the leckchures of
Benvet, the One Legged and Reenec|
and Gohergz and hie themselves to the |
don.ain of Zturleing to pass awav the |
hours there in idle Badmin.

(To be continued.)
See re Ak OES

Platonic love seems to be occupying
quite a place in the minds of the students during the past week. I have
asked the opinion of several of the
students on the matter.

Wayne McKie—I think it is just
grand.

Charles Lorway—Phooey!

Mr. Westhaver—I don’t take no
stock in it. I’m pretty glad when six
o'clock comes around. Now you take
those longsohremen for instance.

SS ee ee

‘The Ae Home must go on!” So
spoke Bob Dove, the Cardinal, as he
true to his nautical training, took the
helm of the idly drifting ship ‘‘Pine
Hill,” BENT LEYwards and moved
HELEN earth to make the evening a
success. .

Under the watchful eye and guiding
hand of Howard*Kennedy, who really
knows GOODE music, the chorus reRearsed early and late until Ed Milley
asked, “WHAT'S ON?” Hardwick
felt as if he could KILLAM for such a
question, ‘‘The At Home is on,” he
shouted,

Everyone began asking, ‘‘Who will I
take?” Bent mumbled, thinking it
was a poker game, ‘“‘I guess I'll stand
PAT.” Jarvie was just BIDEN his
time till Duncan Donald began to
BLANCHE and _ finally. weakened.
That COOKED Calders goose—he lost
tne bid.

Willing hands and ingenious brains
soon had the rooms of the monastery
looking like a fairyland. Tate Young
surveyed the Dining Room and nodded,
“PURDY nice.” Allan MacIntosh
looked in the Med. room and shook his
head, “‘PURDY dark!” Al. Linkletter
admited the Common room and-said,
“Boy, do I like the GOULD!’ Mac
Maclvor asked if the angels in the
Theolog’s room could sing a CARROL
and wasn’t satisfied till Thornton gave
the BELL a ring and told her to be
ready. Seven P. M., Friday, February
9th, 1934. The hour had come!

Taxis began to arrive, efficiently
regulated by Archibald and MacKinnon, and with a RUSSELL of skirts,
Mac MacKay and Charlie Anderson
FLOwed into the hall. Ada complained of the cold when the door was opened, but Don gave her a couple of ScoatEs
and told her to ‘“‘Wait till Art Long
STOKES the furnace.”

One taxi came with the FENDERS
on the seat—not much room for Reid,
no wonder he was with the driver.

   
   

DALHOUST E GAZETTE.

SS eee

” Offi tial Re; Report
Council Meeting

The Council of the Students met in
the Munro Room at 2.36 p. n.., on Feb.

lith with the President in the chair.

The Council considered placing a}

telephone in the gymnasium, but decided that the telephone in the Univer
sity Store could be used for student calls. |
Tuesday, March 6th, was set as the |

date for the Council Elections and all
nominations of candidates are to be
made by societies and classes so that
the names may be in the hands of the
Sec.-Treas of the Council not later than
Tuesday, Feb. 27th.

Dr. Bell, Dr. Wilson, Miss Atherton,
Mr. MacKenzie and Mr. Thompson
were appointed as the Malcolm Honor
Society Selection Committee for this
year. The selections of this committee
are to be made known on Munro Day.

The Glee Club budget was considered
and the remaining shows for the year
discussed. Mr. Gray was given permission to inquire into the feasibility
of a Convocation Play Tour.

Mr. Jost presented a report of the
recent N. F. C. U. S. Conference held
at London, Ont. He outlined the new
financial programme of the Federation which calls for a reduction of 5|
cents in the per capita levy on member
Universities.
of the Federation for the next two years
and recommended that the Council accept it, thereby binding Dalhousie to
remain a member during that period.
The Council felt that the benefits de
 

pia al . Ss
er ae ‘ - we ~~," ae"? a tae
Ne Ot ; =< ie nt
> Ls. ye a sie
a r : a - =
S
*
Page Three

; | tis ea

When you smoke

Winchester cigarettes you

enjoy the finest tobaceos,

Blended Right! Nothing

equals the
they give.

 

Winchester

satisfaction

 

CIGARETTES

SAVE THE
POKER HANDS

Blended Right!

 

 

 

Badminton Adviser

|

Discusses Regulations

 

He submitted a budget The Editor,

Dalhousie Gazette.

We all enjoyed last week's cartoon
entitled ‘Dalhousie Scandals,” depicting two young ladies playing badmin
rived from membership justified the! t” in basketball costume, and the

move, and accepted this budget.

President of Dalhousie at the foot of

Mr. Jost.and members ot the CaGncil the picture, wondering to himself w hy
were asked to submit names of possible | PeOPle don’t play badminton in bad
candidates for Junior N. F.

C.U.S.|

minton

costume. Incidentally, the

Representative so that a_ selection brilliant artist might notice n xt time
| might be made at the next meeting.
Mr. Archibald presented the final |" rest on the ball of the foot and not

budget for the Year Book which show
ed a possible deficit of $1000.00 on 500
books.
a criticism was offered of the manner

Carl and Claude Howse took upalot|im which the Student Body was re
of room, but Gordon Darrach insisted

that he wanted MOREHOUSE. This| buy a Year Book.

made the Council so angry that Earl
Gordon had to hold the POPE.

Dinner passed gaily and several telegrams were received from friends of
the Faculty and the Residence. Mae
West sent congratulations to Sam Riggs,
and Herr A. Hitler sent a message to
Dr. MacKinnon with the proposal
that they ‘‘sterilize the world together,”
which, incidentally, was rejected by
the Doctor.
Then came the “Show of Shows” in
' the College Building, an hour and a half
| of real entertainment, after which the
boys and their guests made a mad
‘rush to the Residence. Object—refreshments and the Med. room. Only
a few fortunate couples gained the retreat'and our Dental student took time
out to examine some _bridgework.
Suddenly, the lights went out and the
switch mysteriously disappeared. Fraser Nick and Polly were overjoyed, but
Polly’s HOPE was dashed when Allan
Beveridge brought the DAY into the
darkness of the room (to examine the
skeleton). Even the stately
had to straighten his tie when the time
for parting came at 1 A. M.

WATCH THIS SPACE FOR

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT

As modern as the 20th Century
Of course we supplied the tunes.
for this magnificent dance
For dance music that satisfies

CALL JERRY L-9238

BIRKS=

Our Repair Departments - Watch and Jewelry - - offera
splendid service in restoring

timekeeping, or broken treasures

Expert workman at your service - - ask for quotation.

enn Birks &Sons

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S

~

 

 

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

 

   

Saturday Night

Dine at The Green, then
dance at The Winter Garden.; Special :- Exhibition
Tango.
THE

Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

         
     
    

   
       
   
   

   

Doug !

sponding to the request that e:eryone
The price has been
dropped to $1.00 to place it within the
reach of every student and the number
of sales will determine the amount of

 

 

that the weight of the body should fall

on. the heels.
Will you give me space to outline

The budget was approved, but | the history of mixed games at Dalhousie.

About three years ago, some of us were
sold enough to introduce mixed tennis,
although we were assured by a number
of male students that we were about to
degrade the status of athletics at Dalhousie by so doing. Last October, the

Dalhousie girls won the Maritime In
ths dleficitiandiihe ottent-to-which te tercollegiate Tennis Championships for

Book is desired by the students.

Dalhousie, the men losing all four

The Basketball Team was granted singles.

$57.00 to cover expenses of taking the

About two years ago mixed badmin
Gicthe aac tarérmediate “Tears tol toe Saturday afternoons was intro
Acadia.

duced at President Stanley’s request,

The Council decided to hold another | Provided the students agreed to take

Rink Night on Feb.
of Feb. 23rd was granted for the Girls’
Intercollegiate Debate.

The final item of business was the
appointment of committees and subcommittees to look after the Munro
Day Programme.

nt
sie

The meeting adjourned at 5.15 p. m.

Respectfully submitted,
M. M. RANKIN,
Secretary-Treasurer.
os

CLASS ’34 MEETING.

The Senior class will hold a important
meeting on February 20th, in the Arts
Building.

The Life Officers of the class will be
elected, and the Convocation Week
Committee chosen.

A class party is planned for the near
future for class members and their
partners only.

 

  
  
  
 
 
  
      
       
      
      

G. A. McDonald

Tobacconist

 
 

Complete Range of Pipes

25c. to $7.00
21 Spring Garden Road

BADMINTON SUPPLIES|

We have everything needful, but
we call particular attention to
gour shuttlecocks, which include
the following makes Ayres No 10c,
Blue Goose, Dunlop Tournament
R. S. L. No 1 Tournes, Cambell’s
onsistant and others.

If it’s sporting goods, we can
supply it.

4ikd CRAGGS watt

BARRINGTON at GEORGE
Telephones B-6226

 

 
 
  

  

——
 

 

22nd and the date| the game seriously, i. e. wear the pre
scribed badminton clothes. Mixed
badminton proved so popular that the
students started to play the game at
other times and in mixed costumes.
Although not “in the bond,”’ no objection was raised to mixed badmin
| ton on the other five days of the week,

until this basketball-badminton coalition presented itself. The President,
backed by the Badminton Adviser,
fearing that these unorthodox costumes
might be detrimental to the best interests of badminton, requested the
Physical Instructor to post a notice
reminding the students that mixed badminton was sanctioned, officially and
by their own consent, on Saturday
afternoons only.

The day following the proclamation
of the ‘edict’”—which was nothing
more than a re-statement of existing
regulations—the Dalhousie Badminton
Club held a meeting of the Executive.

 

     
  
 

If you have lots of hair we can
look after st. [f you have none we
can look after that too.

HIGH CLASS
pauctie 25c.

BERT BOWLBY

Over Buckleys Barrington St.

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount
Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for com
 

 

plete Suit or Overcoat.

 

        
     

NICKERSON & CREASE
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N.S.

  
 
   

To make a long story short, on Wednesday, February 7, the day before the
cartoon appeared, the matter had been
settled to the mutual satisfaction of the
Dalhousie Badminton Club, the President, and the Badminton Adviser, and
the status guo ante was resumed, with
the understanding that students will
play mixed at all times in badminton
costume.

There still exists some doubt as to
what exactly constitutes
costume,”

“badminton
and I hesitate very much to
try to give a precise definition myself.
“Without prejudice’ (as the lawyer
says), I take it to mean that students
playing mixed during the week will dress
as they would for Saturday afternoon
mixed badminton. However, all I
hope to acconiplish by this letter is to
remove any impression that either the
President or the Badminton Adviser
is opposed to mixed badminton, and
to request players to be sure to throw
the weight of the body on to the ball
of the foot.
C. H. MERCER,

Badminton Adviser.

Monday, February 12, 1934.

——_.§-
Bryon Richard's new theme song:
‘Drink to me only with thine eyes.”

The Campus lovers are out again.
And seem to be getting along fine.
Personally, I’m not getting along so
well but Gordon “‘Labor’’ Foster seems
to be doing fairly nicely,

 

 

iMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per Ib
FLAT PIECES 7c. per Ib.

Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough

for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

L 2300
Halifax Steam Laundry

Halifax Transfer

PHONE B.7138

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

 

 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

L TIGERS WIN OVER MOUN

 

 

  

 

SS

T A

 

   

 

 

—_ pao — i eee

ACADIA

February 15th, 1984

 

c wai
i. ; . e e so
_ Arts-Sctence Dal Cubs Defeat |Dal Defeated In SPO RT Dal Tigers Down Acadia
-_ Defeat Engineers Kings 44-30| Badminton 24-6 And Mt. A. In Basketball
COMMENT __ 47d Mt. A. In Basketba
>, The Dalhousie Cubs, smarting under =
r A fast travelling Arts-Science five! a defeat by St. Andrew's, regainedtheir ‘ In the past week Dalhousie has
' downed a shorthanded Engineers out-|oldformlast Thursdaytorompthrough}| The experience and court-general: | Plans. for the Intercollegiate Boxing Meet Is strongly entrenched herself in the race
| fit 87-9 in an Interfaculty League fix-|the King’s outfit 44-30. The Kings-|ship of the Halifax Badminton eae | Rone: Meet hee Ghatine ix for Maritime honours by taking a hard
ite ture last Thursday. Starting fast the} men started weak but finished strong.| players proved to be too much for a well. U. N. B. have signified Staged At Gym fought victory over the strong Mount
L Artsmen rolled up 12 points before the | Dahousie took the lead at the start on| determined Dal team and the Col- helt intention of ‘asndiing  « Allison quintet, 1938 Maritime ChamBoilermakers replied and led at half} baskets by MacDonald and Stoddard. } legians won but 6 matches out of 30. PY Pauses etadaee ate ce) ee gee The Interfaculty Boxing Meet was] pions, and handing the Acadia hoopli time 18-3. The second half was a re-| The scoreboard read 11-0 before Hut- The winners captured all the ladies’ ; will send as usual a strong held in the Gym last Thursday before a] sters a 37-24 setback
| petition of the first. The losers showed | chins rank one for Kings. Then Stod-| events both singles and doubles. The} 40... ang with Tech and Dal large eathusinetio ana expert audience. The Tivets eed off against the
lack of knowledge of the game and] dard went on a scoring spree to net 14] Collegians won 3 of the men's singles being stronger than! in former Five bouts were carded on the program | Sackville collegians by taking a 7-0
muffed their few scoring chances. markers before the period ended with events, 2 of the men’s doubles and 1| ¥eure’ the Mest! should be an with lots of action provided ineach fight | lead in the initial 44 iinuites -batin ‘en
I Lou Petrie, however, dropped in three Dal leading by a 25-12 margin. mixed double event. cantiodd tothe ee. In the opened Gaum gained a very| next four the Mounties tied sy tlre
from away out. Bobby Weitz tallied King’s played better ball in the final narrow decision over Max Abelsonin] score. Play was fast and loose with
15. for Arts and McKeigan 12. Petrie period and were only outscored by one | wher ih three rounds of hectic boxing. Abel-| both sides travelling at tremendous
scored 7 for the Engineers. point, 19-18. The Dal team worked San ares | son demonstrated some nice boxing] speed but frequently losing control of
Arts-Science look to be strong con-| nicely throughout the game but the | The support accorded the Dal Girls] ability, but Gaum landed the heavier] the ball. The first half ended with the
tenders for the Interfaculty champion-| Kingsmen showed unfamiliarity with S ort Flashes | Basketball Team his year has been| blows. homesters leading 15-13.
ship. the large floor. Glenn Sntith, Henry Pp |very poor. In fact only about three The second affair was a little tamer In the final frame the Bengal machine
Ted Crease refereed. Muggah and Bob Dorman played oe | males usually turn out for the games.| than the first. ‘‘Blondy”’ Rankine] got going and led by the deadly Don
cellent ball for Kings in the latter halt. City League Basketball: | Coach Anderson, ‘‘Red” Payne and|Showed some nice footwork but] Bauld opened up an eight pdint lead
ARTS-SCIENCE—MacKeigan 12,| Bord Stoddard topped the scorers with Dalhousie 47, Acadia 29. | Bord =. Stoddard. wouldn't seem to t ake “Jock’’ Camer-| The Mounties took time out and when
Lebowitz 5, Cameron, Weitz 15, Mur-|19 points. A ee seca 3 ante heavier blows. The judges. gevel play sesumed showed ‘boine nice come
phy 3, Sima, Fendell, Casselh DALHOUSIE—Stoddard 17, Sulli- Law 0, ns ae Sel og : | ares : | the verdict in favor of Cameron. bination plays with Bob Brodie scoring.
ENGINEERS— Carew, McRae 2, van 8, MacDonald 7, Simmonds 10, Enrercollestate oe ae | | The third bout was very close.} With but a few minutes to go and leadpee 7, Menzie, Williamson, | Dubilier 2. St. Mary’s 7, King’s 0. | Bob MacLellan (paging the Merchant showed some nice ability,| ing by a scant two points Fairstein and
Z third alcove) tells me that he but he wasn’t in the best of condition.| Musgrave caged two shots to put the
| has signed up three new players Jarvie was willing to mix matters but] contest on ice 34-29. Bob - Brodie,
5 for the Inter. Basketball squad. lacked the science of Merchant. The visiting forward, was the star of the.
The new men are greatly need- | judges forced the bout to an extra] game and occounted for 13 points.
Ee ed and will be eligible for the round and then gave the decision in| Bauld and Musgrave were outstanding
next game. favor of J. J. Jarvie. for Dal with 10 and 8 points respective= The Rosner-Hinchey battle provided ly.
= w | ponies lots of excitement for thefans. Hinchéatonia Branded Lines Are ey landed many heavy blows but Ros-| Dalhousie 37—Acadia 24.
¥ For the benefit of Ora M. and La-| ner could ‘‘take it.” The bout went
a h bora D., the teams in each section of| three rounds with Hinchey getting the The Dalhousie basketball machine
Popular With Men Everyw ere the softball league were drawn, not | decision. battled its way to a decisive win over
placed. The last bout on the card brought] Coach Osborne’s Acadians last ThursBelow are listed a few of the outstanding values offered in EATONIA clothes together ‘‘Lightning” Eddie Arab and| day evening at Studley to put the Tigand furnishings for men which are truly representative of the many lines = Paul McNeil of Tech. This was an| ersina first place deadlock with Acadia
F (including shirts, ties, socks, suspenders, etc.) which carry the exhibition bout of two rounds. Arab|for City League honors, The largest
EATONIA slogan—‘‘Good Value INGOOD MERCHANDISE.’ Basketball fans saw two nice received thunders of applause. but the] crowd of the present season saw a
games last week namely the | judges gave a draw decision doubtless| renovated Bengal quintet draw away
IVI 5 Dal-Mt. A. and the Dal-Acadia due to the temper of the crowd. in the dying moments of the game to
oo rn Se tilts. Don Bauld and Bernie Allie McSween was the third man in| triumph by a margin of tnirteen points.
Ralston worked together nice- | the ring with Jim MacLeod and Doug} Acadia opened the scoring when Ellsly especially in the Dal-Acadia Murray acting as judges. Jim Gray] worth dropped: one from close in but
2 s ¢ fixture netting 30 points be- | acted as announcer. Bauld evened matters with a pop shot
6atonia U i Ss tween them. {rom the foul line and Ralston added a
¢

 

Eatonia

Fur Felt Hats

Eatonia Value

Each

See the new EATONIA felt hats on display in our

Men’s Wear Department.

styles suitable for men or young men in smart
shades of browns and greys.

Eaton’s Main Floor.

 

 

 
  
    

Priced At,
Each

regular value obtainable.
dash.

4.50

 

They offer a choice of

Sizes 6 5-8 to 7 3-8.

éatonia

Pair

price.

25.00

The new EATONIA suits prove definitely that style can
be bought at a moderate price.
new Spring suits. . backed by good tailoring and offered
at a price that makes them now, more than ever, the best
They are new.
They are the sort of models that will appeal to
young men who know correct style and wear it.
uf good woollens in new and distinctive colorings and
patterns that will be fashionable this Spring.
double breasted models for men and young men

EATONIA-The Best Regular Value In Town
EATON ’S—Main

 

Style is the basis of these

They have
Tailored

Single and

Floor.

Oxfords

Priced At,

4.50

   

Their smart styling, comfortable fit
and good workmanship make them the
best regular value in Town at their
Smart blucher styles in black
calf leather.

Sizes 6 to 11

Eaton's Second Floor.

LIMITED

 

   

Milt Musgrave and Charlie Ander
son worked nice on the defense, taking

care of the many rebounds that came
their way.

Mt. A. can be proud of both
her hockey and _ basketball
teams. The hockey team have
yet to losea game this season.
The basketball team are at
present Maritime Champs.
and should provide very stiff
opposition in the final playoffs this spring.

Here and there—

Hyiski’s one hard basket from the
corner of the court still has the boys
talking—

The Interfaculty Softball finals begin
this afternoon at 2 o'clock.

Potter still refuses to work the boys

hard enough.

The ‘big’ D. A. A, C. meeting will
take place soon.

CAPITOL

THEATRE

Marion Davies

~in
Going Hollywood
-withBING CROSBY
FIFI DORSAY
NED SPARKS
PATSY KELLY

COMING
SAT - MON - TUES

 

‘Red Payne Peeved
At Sports Writer

Here is a letter from ‘‘Red‘’ Payne
and he seems plenty peeved at certain
people:

Dear Me:

There appeared in your last issue
under a column called Sport Comment
a few remarks about my not being
present at the Dal-St. Mary’s hockey
game. I want it perfectly understood
that | have neither slipped nor fallen.
I had a slight re-attack of rheumatism
| and was just able to hobble over to the
| gymn

(however it was worth it.)

It Cameron would let somebody else
write this column for him the Gazette
would be much better. Cameron even
bribe for
my silence but the only thing that keeps
me alive is the stuff I.hear and tell.
If he wants some news why doesn’t he
write about ‘‘Count de change” Atwood and Grace, or Tiger and his twotiming.

While Iam at it Imight as well make
a few more remarks. Capp Cooke
could play better hockey of he would
stay away from the five and ten cent
store. Hal Connor goes around betting against hisown team. Ora Dono
went so far as to offer me a

hue and Labora MacLellan attempt to}

make themselves known

to the Gazette.

'

by writing
By the way, ““Labora”’
MacLellan happens to be one of the
spoons found in the 3rd alcove Sunday
night,

Hoping that you wili print this so as
to do right by me. I remain

Reverently yours,

Red Payne.

GARRICK

SAT.

 

 

FRI.

Footlight Parade

RUBY KEELER
JOAN BLONDELL
JAMES COYLEY

MON-TUES.
|} WALTER WINCHELL

Famous

BROADWAY THROUGH

A KEYHOLE
RUSS COLOMBO

 

 

 

brace to give Dalhousie a lead from
which they were never headed: The
Dalhousie defensive system was somewhat loose and Adadia scored from close
in but Bauld kept Dal ahead with a
nice long shot. The half ended with
Dal leading 12-9.
| The Tigers came out in the second
to open up an eight point lead. Fairstein, Ralston, and Bauld played brilliantly, the latter two scoring on well
placed passes from Fairstein. With
minutes to go Acadia cut the
Bengal lead to two points and Ralston
saved the day by scoring on two consecutive plays. Acadia subs came in
thick and fast but the Tigers kept
dropping them in to win handily 37-24.

Don Bauld was the outstanding man
on the floor and rang up 17 points
while Bernie Ralston accounted for 13.
Howlitt, Pitt, and Ellsworth were the
pick of the losers.

At the time of writing the Tigers are
enroute to Wolfville for the return game
which will decide temporary league
supremacy. The winner of this game
will take the City League title (can I
pick ‘em.)

DALHOUSIE—Bauld 17, Ralston
13, T. Crease, D. Crease, Fairstein 4,
Gladstone 2, Anderson 1,
Miller.

ACADIA— Cameron 2, Balcom, Pitt,
4, Armstrong 3, Ellsworth 11, Wilson 2,
McLeod, Ralston, Howlitt 2.

SS

nine

Musgrave,

Held a straight flush up to the King
and was beaten by a stra! ght flush up
to the ace. Oh! well, I only lost a

’

week’s board.

CASINO

Wednesday to Friday
February 14-15-16

‘As Husbands Go’|

—with-—
WARNER BAXTER
HELEN VINSON

Starting Saturday
February 17th.

“The Girl With-|

out A Room”

—with—
CHARLES FARRELL
CHARLIE RUGGLES

MARGUERITE CHURCHILL

 

 

 

 

  
  
   
   
  
     

   

“4

 

 

 

 

 
