 

Offi lal Student Pablicabion at Dalhousie University

  
    
      
     
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 9th, 1933.

No. 7

 

 

Bowes Dal In
| Coming Debate

Roy Laurence, as leader, and

~ Clab Show
Leonard Hawco, both law stu
E ae ca Is ; Success dents, were selected from a

a oh record list of candidates at the
: ; '- - trials last Tuesday night in
- Monday aight marked the beginning} the Munroe Room to repreof the year's activities of the Dalhousie} sent Dalhousie in the coming
Glee Club when over six hundred stu- debate against Bates College.
dents and others witnessed the annual| Howard Oxley, president of

Epa Ge Prof. Hoaplod Active In Model
Lectures to League Circles

F; rosh Class

Dalhousie Welcomes Visiting

Model League Delegates

First Sessions of Model League Will Be Held
At Dal Gymnasium Tonight-- Miss
MacPhail Speaks Tonight

   
   
    
 
 
 
  
 

Exploration in general is a question
of the attitude of mind taken towards
what is to be learned. Such was the
novel definition of Exploration given

 

  
   
  
  
   
  

Dalhousie today welcomes students programme, is the Round Table ses
ee from three other Maritime Universities. | sions which will be held wheie students
_  . Freshman Varieties and an offering of | Sodales, announced at the | by Professor G. VY. Douglas, Head of They are here as delegates from Mount| may express their own opinions reyh ee eee ya] Jaeine ineoting that the'Fresh- | the carn cey Department, in an ad- Allison, University of New Brunswick, gardless of their country’s position.
de far better than any given last year) man-Sophomore debate of [dress on ‘‘Exploration”’ given to the

and Acadia to take part in the meetings of the Model League of Nations,
which will open this evening at the
Dal. gymnasium and will continue
until Saturday in the King’s Building,

The Model League, where students
gather each year to represent some
assigned country, aims to stimulate
interest and knowledge in present
world affairs. To tuais end, students
must address the other delegates in
tne regular procedure of the League of
Nations of Geneva and must attempt
to outline the stand on world problems
they think their particular country
would take. The Model League has
met tor the past five years, this being
the second time it has been held at
Dalhousie. A feature of this year’s

Tonight’s programme includes the
opening ceremonies and a public address by Miss Agnes MacPhai:, Canada’s weil known lady parliamentarian
who has been recently stumping for
the newly organized C. C. F. party.
The address will be open to the public
and will start at 8.00 p. u.., at the
»ym.

Tomorrow the business meetings of
the League begin and a proposal for
a General Minorities Treaty will be
presented. Afterit has been dealt with
revision of Article 16 of the League
Covenant will be discussed.

The Gazette wishes every success
to the Model League and hopes that
its work will bring better results than
its namesake at Geneva.

the Bennett Shield series will
be held on Nov. 16, from 12
to 1.00 p. m. in the Arts Building.

Agnes MacPhail
To Speak Tonight

_-and far less pretentious; what the stage
ry lacked in the way of speed, pep, and
"spontaneity was made up for on the
part of the audience which applauded
loudly every effort of the actors. Although marked bv an absence of interest, continuity, and action, the
production was for the most part good,
_ * having good costuming and excellent

Per gue ore mr eeene? a nee er Arriving at Halifax on Wednesday

Affected by the absence of Mr. Dean, | night Miss Agnes MacPhail, C. C. F.

_ the Choral Society was able to render} member of the Federal House, for
ak ‘only two songs. These were done|/South East Gray will be the speaker
ee ay . exceptionally well, the voices were good, | at the Model League of Nations Assema th ouping was good, and perhaps! bly to be in session this week at Dal- : :
zi oS ab ple seitiolons ee be made is that 9 NG Ae " University, especially in sports. He
Be eapon.sh4 » more spirited songs should) Due to the efforts of Dr. R. A. ie es iy ood callow th 8 3
poe | A certain swi of the Political Scienc eS uel

\< es Pie de Model out their college course, since a-person
: |Leag e dele 465: taking part ‘from who dabbles in a number of different
= and eae Se Subjects obtains an accurate know
Freshman Class last Tuesday morning
in the Chemistry Theatre. This address was the third of a series of six
addresses to be delivered to the Freshman Class.

The speaker was introduced by
George Thompson, the Freshman Representative. Prof. Douglas declared
that although all the continents have
been explored to a certain extent, the
realm of the mind and the sciences
have only been very superficially
explored. The speaker urged his hearers to take an active part in the different extra curricular activities at the

 

 

DR. R. A. MACKAY.

 

Students’ Forum
Next Tuesday
Night

A Students’ Fcrum will be held in the
Gymnasium on Tuesday evening at
7.30 p. m. to discuss the resolution:
Resolved that in the event of war we
(the, students of Dalhousie) will not.
‘€eht for King and Country.

The question was debated at the
regular meeting of Sodales last week

 

 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

_——— ——

   
    

Engineers Visit

f t |Col. A. N. Jones
' Mersey Pulp Mili Makes s Address — a

Last Saturday, the senior engineers

  

of no one of thenh.. cr hse
re oO Dawclas” ‘then related some
interesting anecdotes concerning the

great Antarctic Continent, that sur
 

   

address on re A in ee

sat Dalhousie Gymnnsium on some subject

 

  
   

BF th cemceneryd ng goods pee the Ghats aeie
a : 7 ut some life into their performance.
_ The second song started out nicely, but
when the quartet came on both they
and some forty other now silent song
- sters were given the lights, with the
_ result that the attention of the audience
was directed to both the ones singing

ae and those awkwardly doing nothing.
It would have been better had the
others been blocked out, or else been

 

am more actively engaged.
Pee The waltz number was both pointWars less and mediocre, although in no way
ks - being the fault of those taking part.
ae - Stage dancing, unless done by
Be Marylin Miller or Ann Pennington
Jae is’ tedious, to say the least. The
_ *'Serenade” was excellent, Miss Gard| re i: ner’s voice being clear and good. The
impersonation skit, while perhaps tech* ‘ nically all right, belongs in the category
we of the dancing act. A person’s ability
rans - wiggle his ears, metaphorically to
: ue speaking, does not entitle him to a
f er stage contract.
[sees The play, “The Eighth Woman”
Sans

ss was very well put on. The subject
; me matter was well chosen and the acting
= itself was good. Judging from the
applause, this was the best part of the
show. The play moved along well and
the actors handled themselves well,
only their voices sounding a bit unnatural. The grand finale, labelled
on the programme, ‘The Wedding
Scene”’, fell pretty flat. It was neither
funny nor serious, giving a dull, dull
mixture of both. It would have been
jo _. better to have forgotten it along about
. : the third rehearsal.
us j On the whole, despite one or two
Piha - faults, the show forecasts: a good
we season, and displays a tremendous

5
‘

 
 

“ness ne gee comedy of
_ last year have been thrown into the
discard, _and instead we have an
rete ntious production more in keepwith what we can really put on.
ee ee ‘Se omeciae and man
  

  

   

  

n Class a some toiising

mia‘ aterial for future shows.
“Ate - oe os Chib show one of

  

and of interest to the Model League Dele
 
 
   

gates. On Friday night the public

Soils he iuteitad +40, hear. Mise “MacPhail expedition with Sir Ernest Shackelton.
at the School for the Blind.

 

Sodales Votes For

Resolution

 

 

On Tuesday, Oct. 31, the heated
debate at Sodales concerning the
resolution, “In the event of War, we
will not fight for King and Country”

resulted in the upholding of the resolu- classes at Dalhousie held meetings:
A total of 12 speakers took | The chief business was to solicit the
Four| support of the student body for the

tion.
part in the informal discussion.
speakers, E. Arab, B. W. Andrews,

Leonard Hawco and Marjorie Duns-| explained that this year the Dalhousie
The | Health Clinic is among those organiza
worth attacked the resolution.
other speakers upheld it, all of them,
pointing out the horrors of war.

Those who spokei n favour of the resolu- | sum ot $67,000.00 is collected.

tion were B. Ferguson, W. Wright, R.

Copp, R. Squires, J. Fisher, H. Webb- | Dalhousie Health Clinic will get an
The final vote |@amount in these proportions.

er and D. Zwicker.
was 25 for the resolution and 12 against
it.

their country was defeated.

Canada declaring that the students
would fight for King and Country and
as a result a mass meeting will be held.

Law Lance Will
Be Held Nov. 22

On Wednesday, Nov. 22, the Dalhousie Law Society will present its
annual dance at the Nova Scotian
Hotel. For years the Law Dance has
been the outstanding social event of
the year and Novy. 22 will see the usual
quality.

Jerry Naugler’s orchestra will supply
‘the best of toe-tinkling music from

 

9p. m.to 2 a.m.

So let’s prepare for the final recreation, and at the same time the
summit of Dalhousie’s social year,
before the annual pre-Christmas preparation for exams. .

We shall all be there—Wednesday,
Nov. 22 at 9 p. m.—to join the crowd
and make it a big night.

Tickets may be purchased at the
University Store orat the Nova Scotian,

n meational good-will } and from mentbers of the Law School—

Double, $3.00; Single, $1.75.

  

An amendment that in the case of | joint party at the Lord Nelson Hotel
aggression the students would defend |on November 14tn.
An er-|18 anticipated, and all are welcome to
roneous Radio report was sent over attend,

rounds the South Pole. In 1921, he
stated, he had sailed on an Antarctic

when the motion was sustained.

On that expedition he had sailed as the
chief geologist. The speaker told of
the thrilling race between Amundsen
and Scott to discover the South Pole,
a race which was wort by the hardy
Scandinavian.

ed.

to express your views. The
Ooo ee

CLASS MEETINGS.

attendance.

the opinion of the

On Thursday, Nov. 2nd, the various

vote on this of

importance.

question

Community Chest Drive. It

was Wa La

——+-e_______

tions which will benefit by the Campaign, getting $2000.00 if the total
Ifless

The

housie.

than $67,000.00 is collected,
is being held on November 18th.
Shirreff Hall,
ager of the theatre and an
Community

Classes "34 and '35 are holding a

ao es c io 7
A real good party Chest Campaigner,

ticket to the Casino.

 

‘MEMORIA IN AETERNA.”’

(in memory of those Dalhousians who gave their lives in

1914-18 War).

Once more, O Dalhousians! Yet, once more
We pause amid the clangour of our day;

In solemn silence pay
Respects to those who under poppies lie,
Who heard the Nation’s trumpet call to die.

Once more, O Dalhousians! Yet, once more

We vision still the terror of their strife;
What value placed on life

To waste its substance on the sod;

Not waste, but highest: offerings to their God.

Once more, O Dalhousians! Yet, once more

The tender voice of Honour bids us come
When victory is won,

To breathe an Ave with a peaceful breath,

F or those who died to find sweet life in death.

Ones more, O Dalhousians! Yet, once more
We view the raging rivals o’er the world
With flags again unfurled
We drop a petal down
In tearful memory by each whitened cross,
To sense anew pale Flanders’ scene of loss.

Donald B. MacLeod

Due to a misunderstanding conflicting reports appeared in the local press.
The topic has been freely discussed on
the campus—adherents of both sides
feel that they have been misrepresent
Dalhousians here is your opportunity
importance of the subject warrants a large
Since the decision of the
majority will be taken as reflecting
student body of
Dalhousie University it is the duty of
every student to appear to speak or
national

Through the courtesy of the management of the Casino Theatre a spur
has been given to the girls of Dal
The third annual Delta Gamma Tea
Dance in aid of the community chest

and Mr. Courtney, manardent
has
offered to give every girl who buys a
double ticket to the tea dance a double

 

journeyed to Liverpool to visit the
Mersey River Paper Mill. The trip
was arranged through the courtesy of
Col. C. H. L. Jones and proved to be
very interesting. Under the direction
of 3 of the companies employees, who
acted as guides, they were able to
trace the process from the time the
logs entered the mill, until, after being
disintegrated by mechanical and chemical processes, they emerged as pulp and
were rolled into the newsprint used
in the daily papers. The mill is a
fine practical example ot the work ot
the mechanical, electrical, chemical
and constructional engineer. Such
trips help to keep in mind the goal
towards which engineering students
are aiming, and the boys feel that more
trips ct this kind would be very beneficial,

“The Policies of the Canadian
Chamber of Commerce” was the subject spoken on by Colonel A. N. Jones,
Vice President of the Canadian Chamber of Commer rce, at a very well attended and enthusiastic meeting of the
Dalhousie Commerce Society held last
Thursday evening at 64 Edward Street.
The speaker was introduced by the
President of the Society, John W.
Fisher.

Colonel Jones opened his address by
outlining briefly the policies that the
Chamber takes with respect to stimulating trade in Canada, both foreign
and domestic. He then told his hearers of the manner in which the Chamber
carries on its business and he named
several of the different special committees and commissions that the
Chamber elects to carry on certain
branches of its business. They have
a Canada wide Advisory Council,
made up of prominent business men
from all parts of the Dominion, also a
Foreign Trade Bureau, for the purpose
of stimulating Canada’s foreign trade.
The speaker then told of the different
departments that go to make up the
Chamber, and he outlined the nature
of the business that is taken up at the
annual meeting of the Chamtber, that
was held last year in Winnipeg.

Following his address, Colonel Jones
answered a number ot questions from
the members of the Society, and a
discussion of matters of general interest developed. Refreshments were
served, and the remainder of the evening was spent in dancing and cards.

— —_»>-e—___.

SHIRREFF HALL NOTES,

   
    
  
 
   
 
  
   
     
  
    
     
    
   
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
     
 

 

College Supports
Community Chest

 

This year for the aiak time Dalhousie
University has a team working for the
Community Chest Drive. A quota
of $2,820.00, the second largest to be
assigned to a team in the City, was
raised from the staff of Dalhousie and
Kings one hundred per cent complete.
The magnificent answer of the University staff to a plea for a worthy
cause is a fact of which student members of the college should be proud,
and furnishes an example which they
would be well advised to follow to the
extent of their power. While the
Dalhousie team was successful in
attainiig its objective other teams
met with a less substantial response,
with the result that the whole drive is
still several thousand dollars shurt of
the figure set. In these circumstances
especially will thé contributions of
students be appreciated. The nickels,
dimes and quarters of any student
wishing to half raise the fund to its
objective will be received with the
most heartfelt thanks by the Conimunity Chest Executive. The Gazette
commends this matter to the students
and suggests that if they but take the
time to reflect on the work of the
charitable organizations financed
through the Community Chest they
will very readily deposit some contribution in the various boxes placed
about the buildings for the purpose.

 
 
    
      
       
    
      
   
      
       
 
        
       
       
 

 

 

For once Jerry Naugler was embarrassed, but every one thought it
was the fault of the cleaners,

  
 
     
 
    
 
 
 

 

  

Prof. MacNeill tried to buy three
dances from Geo. Covert, but wasn’t
able to.

   
       
 

David Allen received a message
requesting him to call B9746. You

have a wide public, David, but you
only got the maid.

  
  
     
  
 
    
  

    

 

Elizabeth McMaster, B. Sc. '82 has
been here staying at the Hall for a few
days while arranging to remain in
Halifax and take a course at the
Pathology Building,

  
    
 
    
   
     
      
  

 
——————————————————— a - = . a —_ —— — ee
— = . ” y 5

Al ot
Cw

    
     

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE November 9th.1988

EXCHANGE S Campus The Knocker’s Corner

 

     

 

    
   
 

McGill Daily, Nov. 1; McGill]
alse Pail, Now. 1: Mec! (Comment

  
 
  
 
 
 
 

  
  
 
  
     
  
   

  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 

 

    
  
         
     
   
  
    
 
   
  
   
  
     
  
    
 
   
  
  
  

 

is 1869. “The Oldest 5 -aper i ica’’ Students’ Council. we sigh in despair. Can anyone
ase ui ht Geek oS sek ion Oct. 27; Ubyssey, U. B C., Oxt. oA: Nationalism. Eakins the C. O. T. C. having a
| Renae 5 The above University Publications thought about anything?
_ EDITORIAL STAFF. may be found on the Magazine stand| Last week the column was so funny} when one looks around fur some-| God save usfrom the political Utopia \
| Editors in the MacDonald Panrary. Fey ny Siat one student while reading ; it thing to knock in the precincts of old | of fascism, such as this writer proposes
YY ‘MIN, B. A. W. EOS; B. A.|#0t to be taken out of the Reading|laughed. I think he is a big foolish ' pa thousie, the Students’ Council comes in “Dalhousie needs Nationalism.’'
7 pate Bet + B. 2543, Room. ea ors week, ae nee speak-/t9 mind most readily. Why is the| Italy, Japan, and Germany are highly
7 ; sates of my readers, offers some | ctydents’ Council the scape-goat upon | nationalistic and have put men to
= a tae as . Lh caning Sir Norman Angell, famous author, | variety in poetry and actual happen- which eve need the sins i entetens work by their nationalistic endeavours.
>. FREEMANSTEWART BORDEN STODDARD lectured at Montreal recently on the}ings. Do I make myself clear, boys?| 55 4}, ft edad teu? | Vet by bbe eis tale they wrented. they
FRANK GOUDGE. AMES MACKINTOSH. arms crisis now facing the world. His - 5 ° ne a ed iin rae h f dened alt. bau fid |
ie 2. DAVID Ry ALLAN. — VARD cer ecause the students look upon that | have shattered all business confidence |
i ies La ae . er s a subject, The Great Illusion of 1983,) Last week, if you remember, there | executive batt as detached in them- | and thus tended to throw a far greater |
Se ee ae NEWS DEPARTMENT. dealt mainly a ao sah appeared in the ee ae serves, for whose actions they have no|number of men out of employment. |
en Se ot | ee a. . made in his book published in .}a note mentioning the work done by shits bh thnt fact. t Natinealienr arid dace co. hand io
- DOUGLAS CREASE. GC. i. . A MPPHERLAND! |) cos iee : : responsibjiity, they get thnt comfort-| Nationalism and jing g
tec 2 oo ee aH a ee B. 5487. It is his belief that the ailments of the | football players during the summer. |.hj¢ ‘hotier-than-thow’ experience out| hand and the central creed of fascism
ta a FFs dat dew ce world at the present time are so similar | He also said that Doug Murray spent of recounting the failures and short-|is “my country, right or wrong.”
aa Re a) Associates. to conditions twenty years .2go" that a@ great deal of his time scaling. Well, comings of the Council. Moreover,| National thought is an ideal to be |
~ -MERLE PURTILL, _ MARTHA KENISTON MARY SIMMONDS |his remedies outlined in his publication | 1 think that was a bit Ruthless, don’t lt be abie tocriticize people who in ail | striven for, provided there is thought;
mer, : namely to make National poe your probability possess more ability and| unfortunately, most writers mean by
wee f SPORTS ee Agaead ome ae et hs El diced talent than ourselves, does inflate |national thought nothing more than
Te Ty | REA Den - applicable to prevailing conditions. n Latin class the other day, a very | +p2;+ precious ego. ; national bigotry. A glaring example
ssa : E + ie eet ter tie wesie A few of the high lights of his address | sad and mournful student wns reading.) pave we ae student govern- of fascistic refusal to think was the |
» BUSINESS DEPARTMENT. were—“‘as long as power is in the hands | Prof. Pierson, noting the remorse in his} pent jn Dalhousie? No. England; burning of the books in Germany.
GB ; of ‘rival litigants justice will are tone asked him why he read with such|/},5 a more democratic government | Would the writer advocate that the
3 eee! . : ‘ : injustice for others. There is a needed |a mournful and dying voice. Andrew, fhan U. S. A., although she has a/C. O. T. C. ‘ransack the » Dalhousie
Je Manager. — Circulation Assistant Manager. change in the use of force. Armies|the student brightened and said,| onarch. because her edd are nomt broek and bares, ib of everything
et DAVID H. HOLLAND. C.R.MACDONALD HOWARD C. OXLEY, B. A.|} and navies ought to be turned into an | ‘‘Well, it’s a dead language isn’t it?” éitutionally ene ded: The average GalCankdian P
us e i ‘B. 2543. B. 2548. International police force. It is not —————ee eevee Yh possible to change human nature| The United Radicals and the Social government as being paternalistic.|rampant nationalism. Canada has

 

Fundamentalists parties at Kings recently held an election in which the

‘THE RESURGENCE OF THE D. A. A. C. —— | :
Spain fared (RH The Delta Sigma Society of McGill] United Radicals were returned victors

Rey > ECENTLY the D. A. A.C. has come out of hiding to resume] Ppresenteda unique skit entitled ‘‘Shake-|by a majority of only one vote. I
hei +“ the important functions entrusted to it. Someone has sperian Hash.” This title was app- imagine David Allen must have voted
__ discovered or remembered that all budgets of athletic teams should | ropriate considering the conglomeration | twice.
~ in th insta e submi d lock and
~ in the first instance be submitted to the D. A. A. C., and there|characters portrayed. Shylock an Pas,
are examined and pruned and passed upon before coming to the Coun- Lady MacBeth were Man anid wife, Laurie Hart says his signs are so
x Pict. Tt appears that the good old practice has again been installed. with Juliet as their daughter, rare popular as to require a lock and key.
’ et Ue goodly proportion of the general fund goes every year into the and Caesar were rival BUG? for the ok rs the Year Book would have been at-| down the land in sloppy looking uni- maintefiance of athletics. It is the proper duty of the Council to hand of Juliet. Cleopatra is represent- Highlights of the Medicine, Arts | tended by a large majority of the|forms, attempting to persuade themparcel out the available moneys with an eye to striking a fair ratio ed as the mistress and partner in crinie | & Science Football battle— student body. Each student would|selves that in nationalism is salvation.

but one can direct human behavior.” The traditon of a vinle college spirit | been one of the countries most affected

—a democratic spirit among individuai| by it. As a nation whose well-being
students which takes its share of re-|is largely concerned in the marketing
sponsibility and _ privilege offered|of her wheat crop at profitable prices,
through a system of student se.f-|it is ridiculous to suggest that Canagovernment is conspicuous in its|dians should live only for themselves
absence. If it did exist, a mass meet-|and disregard other peoples. Yet
ing cailed to consider such matters as| this writer, and there are others, would
the abolition of the D. A. A. C. and}have Canadians marching up and

 

 

  

My

=) a , _ between the athletic and non-athletic student services, and this the} of Hamlet. A parody ‘on two other] Watch that man Mac? spokenby Abe | feei it not only a duty but a privilege] ‘‘Dalhousie needs nationalism ?”’—
e ~~ Council is equipped to do as the servant and representative of the Shakesperian plays was also attempted. | Mandlestam ds well as many other|¢ 9 at Jeast become informed, and to] Dalhousie students should recognize

* _ student body im toto. The nariower problem of dividing funds|They were “Romeo and Juliet,” in | things not fit to print here. vote as intelligentiy as possible on] its dangers and fight it.

ere - among the val ious branches of athletics is one which should not| which Romeo used modern sland and “Doc” Bryne’s beautiful thirty yard any issue that concerns the welfare

be attempted without the advice of a body qualified to speak for|‘‘Oh Hamlet, Oh Hamlet, Where |run, straight across the field. of the University as a whole, whether

___ athletics as a whole and unbiased in favour of any particular sport. | Have You Been?” _ When Coach McCarthy found tha | the individual himself would be effect-| ‘STUDENT’? OPPOSED TO

_ Whether or not the late dictatorship of the Council ove: athletic eR ITS time was up, he blew his whistle and) eq by the action taken or not. NATIONALISM. |

%¢ has had deleterious results, the single-handed action of| The Ubyssey is sponsoring a shaggy | yelled no side. One of the players The unit of integratipn in Dalhousie Lee NT .

Dalhousie student views the student| The world today is crippled with

— ——=s i - 
  

 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
   

 

 

in the King’s Agreement has produced a sad situation. | beard growing contest. Some wouldbe | thought he meant it was no game and | does not seem to exceed the class, or | Dear Editor:
Soto ik ubmit nat interfaculty football would not have|critic accused the U. B. C. men of |became awfully mad. The result was : : : eth

m7 t that mterilaculty 1ootb a 1 . o ; : ; . society, or fraternity, We must be- Perhaps the logic of the brilliant |

play ng fiel | if the D. A. A. C. had been becoming pansified. Working on the /an argument. come conscious of a larger unity that | author of ‘Dalhousie Needs National- |

mc ion of that agreement. We are not theory of—where are the free, fine,| nT will be bred of a common purpose to|ism,” is beyond my mental powers. |

tional powers of the luxuriant, bushy beards that stamp| Did you know that John Rowley promote the interests and welfare of | But just why does Dalhousie need or

   
 

 

h the adequacy of the consideration & man, well, a man; the Ubyssey|went to a party Halloween night| Dalhousie, not by knocking the Stu-| want nationalism? Has not this nat- a
re Co’ neerned that someone should be officials: have appointed themselves dressed in Stanfield’s red underwear. | dents’ Council but by initiating de-|ionalism, and its parent Imperialism, BS
on of an important interfaculty sport. |sponsors of a contest to bring back at sirable changes through the constitu-| revealed itself to the world in its true th

| | r the D. A.A.C., wh.2h apparent- the beard in a blaze of hirsute glory.| Allan Nixon used to be such a nice
“never con: Ited on the advisability of the agreement, and | It is rumored that the Dal. Moustache |little boy. A certain senior says she
m5 tt = present officials of which were not apprised of its effect until | Club once most active but row socially | has changed her mind. She told him
confronted by the je accompli. Accordingly the blame must be| extinct, may be seriously hampered in |she would put his name in this clumn

attributed to the high-handed action of the Council in binding|their annual drive for members if|}and she did it.

CTation
er the aegis o tional means that are waiting to be|sense? Has it not revealed itself as
used. Criticizing the Council does|the unreasoned movement of a niob,
not help, for its inefficiency is caused | impelled by the propaganda of capitalby the students. “It is erroneous to|istic interests? Has it not been the
| L , ascribe the vices of mankind to bad | cause of war, of wasted human effort
oe itself on a matter of athletics without so much as a word to the| beard wearing becomes the vogue. government because bad government|and enmity between nations? When

___— parties primarily concerned, or to the neglect of former D. A. A. C. a May I suggest to the editor of the | is the effect of man’s vices,” a man puts on a uniform, and struts
Officials who failed to attend to their business. The incident} We in Canada, are, at the present }forthcoming Students’ Directory that — up and down aeticlaicaed his super~ Stresses the inadvisability of the Council taking unto itself too a, eyeing the U. S. A. and their|he include, next to the name ofeach | Thiscolumn hasat all times refrained | iority, his self-sufficiency and strength;
i, ae; great a power in matters on which it is ill-informed. We trust National Recovery Act programme member of the Rar. (?) sex, a genera’ | from knocking that valued institution,| we are usually more amused than
er: that consultation with the D. A. Bis C.. whenever athletics are with a great deal of interest and| description of the person, giving her the Dalhousie C, O. T. C.—not that] antagonised. When nations attempt

ees, 3 concerned, the new policy of this Council, will be productive of|anticipation. The question is some-|‘'theses’’ and ‘‘thoses’’ accompanied | we are afraid of it or think it perfect, | similar tactics the situation becomes

we

 
 
   
 

      
     
   
  
   
 
    
  
    
    
      
 
   
  
    
     

 

 

a het oS a e . ~ . . .

= better results. ene e times asked, would the N. R. A./bya picture. This is to eradicate the but rather as hardly worthy of space.|too serious to be funny. Dalhousie
ae . 1 succeed in Canada? Dr. W. A. Car-| necessity o1 some of our poor, untried | However, when some essayist writes, in| stands for intelligent leadership, tol: ae ys THEY WHO RULE OVER US. ruthers of Vancouver, states that|freshmen appearing on the campus] the last Gazette, that the C. O. T. C.|erance and freedom of action. These

al of = ‘ a. Giay eae : Canada could not succeed under such} with tear-stained faced, complaining|“could inaugurate a new movement |things have their very antithesis in
et VERY year the Council is subjected to an appreciable amount] system and that the U. S. wns the/that they were ‘ stuck” on a blind date/in nationai thought” and thus bring] nationalism.

fF  —S *':~«of'* criticism and not a little abuse. That in itself, should|one country in the world where a|the night before! Always a pal to the| about political happiness to Canada, STUDENT.
=. . not’ disturb the councillors, for it is something in this University | system of self-sufficient economy like} males! Are ya listenin, Cognac Connie

even to be noticed. Every student has an interest in the proceed-| that of President Roosevelt’s N. R. A. —
pee” ings ‘of the Council, at least to the extent of ten dollars, and the|could be carried out. ‘‘How can we, |News Flash.

__—_—s gtatification of the expressed and unexpressed wishes of each|the fifth trading nation in the werld,] Newspaperman accused of being a
_ studentismomeantask. Every student has a right to criticize his} make our undeveloped country at|spy in Germany!

«governors and most of them exercise the right at one time or|one stroke a self-sufficient unit?” Several spies have been found in the

 

 

 

Tuxedos— Dress Shirts—Studs—Collars— Ties
—o—eooaeeoooooooooooeee_e eee

 

a another. It is but proper that the councillors keep their political} —-——-——-—-—-__ | vicinity of the university store, too Formal Evening Wear—

Pa ty. AES attuned to the grumblings of their subjects, seeking always to S h : ff H. ll _ |Apple spies, peach spies, raisin spies,

refrain from causing an uproar. Yet it were well that the students irre a Alla kinds spies! Get it? The Freshie-Soph D ks th i
_-_— occasionally mete out a little honour where it is due. After all the Notes Bs soph Vance marks the opening
Council is elected, a circumstance which the electorate sometimes | of the Dalhousie social season.

| forgets. Its duties are considerable and its responsibilities not Here is a poem written by an inspired

light, and to these the councillors give of their time and effort| A bridge game was interrupted the] student, entitled ‘‘Low Brow.” We herewith list a few of the articles neces
Ree Ww thout remuneration. other evening when one of the players
ee was called to the ground floor phone. | If I were only hot or cold
‘6 if She returned and the game had hardly ' Anent the present price of old,
FOR KING AND COUNTRY.” been resumed when another of the| Or over, 0 the silly be
players was called to the same phone. | And turns of party politics:
Communication wasn’t necessary, in-| And if I only understood

sary to the student who would be well garbed.
You will be agreeably surprised at the moderate cost of these items —

iu i

aati ees 4 : eh
On Tuesday, October thirty-first, Sodales held a meeting at
___which there were present some forrty members. At the close of the

    
 
    
  
    
    
  
   
   
  
 
    
  
    
   

    

nme Ra Wont oe : : duction sufficed. We don’t mind being | The market, or assayed the good
ee ereicn Wig meeting: Py a vote of two to one, passed | 7th on the list, but we would rather not | And evil of our sorry times Tuxedos . Scarves
a reso ution that “in e event of war this House will not bear! know it. Rod puacled over hixid ceiabe Dress Shirts Dress Sets
arms for King and Country.’ Before the motion was put the ¢ eee Coll
Dee @haitman carefully explained its purport. that “ - Or raised a merry bit of hell ollars Braces
em tahiti piv ardied confict in. which Sie Molise ta eet, ns About the Shirreff Hall Dance— _| About a code, it would be swell! Black Silk Socks Bow Ties
eee Asker—Have a dance with Swift i : .
King in Canada became a combatant. The assembly, with this| Robinson? : ‘ ; woe Stiff Hats Black Felt Hats

‘y eee aes eo ep - a terms before it, thereupon passed
the resolution. Subsequently there was proposed a motion, in the See the new key chains f i
_ guise of an amendment to the principal resolution, to the effect y or evening wear.
‘ Re rnat nr House nent Mannan eameue Were atacked by a foreiner | ———— ——_—_—__$_—{»__-»>_>>E
_ committing an act of agpression. Presumably the House reserved|the apparently sound ground that fort
itself the right to determine agpression. “The Chairman first Fa ltiousie : 3 NE ee PEGA ict
er te as a motion embodies in the The question 1s one which has been booted about for some
= a eee The e relaxed the rules of procedure to|years with answers corresponding to that of Sodales coming from
oe A ie i a _+he motion was lost by a large majority. |many student gatherings. It is a serious matter—will be an

exceedingly serious matter if the practical occasion for its answer

Ran oF ,

The resolution of Sodales has given rise to something of alever occurs.‘ Just how far an academic pre} i

(¢. The resolution of Sodale iven rise tc ; ejudgment will affect

‘ re he umber = pore axieeies indignation that students | the future attitude of the judges may be Gunes but whatever 30) Spring (3 Gar den Poad

ED, : oe a Bed eae aie disloyal opinions. Then the/|the result of the deliberation there is no harm and much good in

Pe eto ‘ae eae cast, z nouns that the‘amend-/having the pros and cons aired at this time. We endorse the
i carried and there Ge bmgtsae ad indicated its inten-j}suggestion of a student forum and trust that those who have

LTS: esc at ed ee } eens eee shoot the resolution of Sodales will find a discount of 10% allowed to Dal stud

previous correct one. Lat atce : |

nde te oa on the quecticn Risehen|an or y betore a full student meeting the reasons for their own o students

tae ees |

Sia - <r a =
; Answerer—Whois he? Even if he is| I worry over thinps like this—
a big ham he needn’t think he’s Swift.| A torrid blonde—a touclty kiss!

    

ee? SOE

3

 

ae r

or

F a
PA ay
ea SN

  

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

   
  
 
 
 
    

 

 

 
    

nnasium Notes
e: aoe a - By .
WE, Stirling.

oe

   
    
   
 
   
 

“

rective Physical Work. =
_. Foilowing your Medical examination
students requiring corrective physical

"work are advised to get in touch with
____ the Physical Director for expert advice
son corrective exercises, etc.,.to build
¢ 1 up your physique.

=e Teachers’ Training Class.

The Teachers’ Training Class for
B certificate meet for instruction, two
periods each week (Fri. 3.30 to 5.30

-p, m.; Sat. 10 to 12 a. m.). Students
E wishing to take their examination
Xx next Spring should commence im
mediately,

Boxing, Wrestling and Fencing.

ay
ag Instruction classes in boxing, wrestfo, ling and fencing have commenced, the
| -——s fencing class meeting on Tues. and
eats Thurs: at 12-1 (noon) in the small
oct - gym, while the boxing class meets on
ree Tues. and Thurs. at 11-12 a. n.
ee The wréstling class will get. under
‘ way this week with two instruction
Vi periods per week.

Several local boxing and wrestling
tournaments are expected to take place

a = i this winter and if our boys are in
. ee condition they may be given a chance
fe a _ to participate, hence this early an 
BP x nouncement for training, instruction
OE ‘ etc. ae

Bee cot * ,

E or Physical Training for the Busy
eee! Student.

ee

Me" These General P. T. classes are held
ase for the busy student on Mon., Tues.,
Ay Thur., Fri. 5-6 p. m. Every student
ra not participating in other lines of sport
eer should try and attend at least two
eo

free classes per week.
«U.K. C. Notes

Ag The famous literary club of Kings,
the «~Haliburton Club, held its first
piel eed a? egular meeting of the year on Satur| Best 2 ay October 2ist. Professor Bennet
) sided and welcomed the freshmen

‘members of the Club. Three
Pet

sot, Pefatth EB. Cochrane and H. Wainwright were the speakers for the
1 CeO gar ke ie ye ae
 sevening. ha it “en
| “~Plans are being made by the Club
—- to. publish a volume commemorating
ss the ‘fiftieth anniversary of its founda
tion.

 

    
   
  

  

 
 
 
  

 

     

who att
rey ee

s H D

i
*
Ya

  
 
 

 

  
  
  

 

Kings’ suffered their second defeat
Rr in the schedule when a fast and heavy
team from Tech met them on the
Studley field Saturday, October 21st.
7 - The final score was only 38-0 and it
De was almost a debatable try which
Tech secured.
oar Time and again the Tech scrum
obtained the ball and the King’smen
‘stopped its advance only a few yards
: from their line. The first period was
scoreless and the play was not particularly fast or brilliant. Tech had
the edge in all positions.
_ Early in the second period a scramble
by the King’s goal-post ended with
; the ball a few inches over the line.
‘The last ten minutes was furious rugby’
with K‘ng’s forcing the play. Several
times they were within a very few
- yards of the Tech line, but their desperae. ate attempts to score were smothered
| by Teach’s stalwarts.
" Comparing the weight of the two
( | teams, Kings had a disadvantage yet
they put up a fine battle,

; The King’s College Record staff
+ has been chosen by the Editor-in-Chief,
7 T. W. Crawford. The nantes were

ratified by the student body and thus
* the Record starts on another year’s
* activities. There will be some minor
. changes in the magazine, but certainly
the high literary standard will be
iD oR - maintained,

es Ser ne. practice game of rugby, played on
: Thursday, Oct. 19th, with the Dal
housie Intermediates, found the King’s
College team lacking the drive which

they have promised sofar. Thescrum,
as usual, was working well, but the
three-quarter line failed to follow up
the advantage, and the Dalhousie
men seemed to find little trouble in
keeping them in check. On the other
hand, the Dal line was fast and smooth
E, a and when the game ended had chalked

in

  
  
  
   
   
     
   
  

__up ten points, with zero for King’s.
i es a »@ be e ieee —_—_ -—— F >
ab , a ra? 4 Ss

“The hungry sheep look up and are

not fed.” Remember that line from

I think it was written for them,

"Milton, Well, the girls of Shirref|

4

‘students, and
ho attended

      
 
 
  
 

'|the students to

 
      

Library Notice

As from Tuesday, Octo
~ ber 10, and until further

notice, the library will be
open (holidays excepted) at
the following hours:—

Monday to Friday:

8.45 a. m.—.30 p. m.

7.30 p. m.—10.30 p. m.
Saturday:

8.45 a. m.—12.00 a. m.
Sunday:

2.30 p. m.—5.30 p. m.

 

BadmintonSeason
Opens

With the coming of cooler weather
our thoughts naturally turn towards
the irdbote and the indoor sports.
Those of us who have played tennis
during the Summer seek the game
which is nearest akin to our favourite
Summer pastime and we realize that
it is to be found on the Badminton
Courts. ‘

Dalhousie has a Badminton Club
and every member of the Student
Body is automatically a member of
this club. There are no such things
as fees or dues in this club, and it isa
self-governing body, the executive
being elected by the members themselves and chosen from the members
of the Club. The official meeting of
the Club is held on every Saturday
atternoon. Doublesand mixed doubles
only are allowed on Saturday, unless
there are not enough members present
to complete a foursome, or unless there
are sufficient courts available to permit
of singles.

Last year Dalhousie captured the
Maritime Intercollegiate Badminton
Championship and placed third in the
Halifax City Badminton League. In
addition several informal matches were
played with various City Clubs. While
this is a very good record since the
Dalhousie Badminton Club was reorganized last year after having been
dormant for a long time; this year
plans are already underway to enter
a team in the Halifax City League’

and to take part in the Maritime
Intercollegiate Championships. In ad
dition as many informal matches with
outside clubs as can be arranged are
going to be held for it is in these matches that the greater number of members get an opportunity to play.

On next Saturday afternoon the first
meeting of the Club for this season

will be held. This meeting is .or all

members of the Student Body and
proyides an excellent opportunity for

afternoon’s sport. Men must wear
white or cream coloured flannels and
the women must dress in tennis frocks.
On next Saturday afternoon the officers
of the Club for the forthcoming year,
will be elected, so a large turnout is
both requested and expected.

News Briefs

Prof. R. A. McKay talked on
“Germany's Crisis” at the Commerce Society’s first meetihg on Monday, Oct. 23, at 64 Edward St. Informal discussion and _ refreshments
followed. |

 

The Model League of Nations is
getting under way. Dal-Kings are
hosts this year and many new innovations are planned.

Prof. H. L. Stewart was forttinate
in meeting and conversing with the
world-famous scientist, Dr. Einstein,
who is visiting this country.

Dr. H. F. Munroe spoke under the
auspices of the S. C. M. on “The
Present International Crisis’’ in the
Chem Theatre on Tuesday, Oct. 24th.

The Dawson Geological Club had
its first outing of the present season
on Saturday, Octpber 21st at the
Waverley Gold Mine.

Sigma Chi.

A delightful tea dance was held at
the chapter house, 207 South Park St.,
immediately after the Dalhousie-Wanderers football match, Oct. 14th.

D.G. A.C,

A meeting was held at Shirreff Hall
before the Delta Gamma meeting
Tuesday evening. The chief business
of the meeting was the election of
assistant managers for the various
sports. The following were elected:

Asst Mgr. Ice Hockey—lIsobel Fraser.

Asst. Mgr. Ground Hockey—Moira
Davison. ;

Asst. Mer. Basketball—Ruth Scalng.
ia") i elena ih delhi st st

Bob MacFarlane: Did you go to
Europe on a fellowship?

John Fisher: No, it was a cattleship,

: get acquainted with |
each other, besides indulging in an

 

It may be admitted at once that my
short acquaintance with your country
must weigh rather heavily against
the reliability of the observations which
follow. If it wholly invalidates them,
however, I think it must become
patent to all that no important point
of reference, no fundamental postulate
of formal logic is common to the wouldbe rational processes of the peoples of
our two planets. For these observations are set down in the best of faith
and would reasonably commend themselves to the vast majority of my fellow
Sunjunkians, whom you know as the
inhabitants of Mars.

To begin with a universally interesting comparison, in Sunjunk there is no
strict division between the dress of
males and that of females. You will
be justified in deducing from this
to you, novel characteristic, that the
relation between the sexes is marred,
by either one, neither by the arrogant
assumption of superiority nor by,
what seems to be included under what
you term courtesy, the practice of a
sentimental and smirking patronage.
In Sunjunk, moreover, the dress of
both sexes has all and more than the
variety, in fashion, color and pattern,
of the clothing worn by the females
here. It is not surprising, then, that
shortly after my arrival on the Earth
I was obliged, the object as I was of so
many amused glances and witty re
marks bordering almost on rudeness
to adopt the conventional dress o
your country. My double ears alone
a feature, it appears, peculair to Sun
junkians, cause me embarrassmen
enough, especially among your chil
dren who, if possible, are more in
tolerant of any mark of individuality
than yourselves. You will understand,
under these circumstances, the longing
I had to meet some male dressed, in
some respect besides color, differently
from the thousands of his fellows.
It was this longing for some departure
in the staid conventionality that governs the dress of your males that led
to an incident which will perhaps bear
relating. I was travelling in one of
your teasingly slow trains one day when
I saw at the far end of the car in which
I was seated a sad-faced man dressed
quietly in black, whose vest was distinctive in that it was of sheen cloth
perfectly plain and without buttons
in front; his collar was white and
considerably higher than any I had
yet met with, made, too, of stiffer
material and, what most attracted my
attention, fastened not at the front
but at the back and worn without a
cravat. It was, I suppose, an unimporn detail of dress, this turning
backwards of his collar, but it was an
evidence of individuality that immediately endeared the man to me,
and approaching his seat I made so
bold as to introduce myself and to beg
humbly his acquaintance. The impatient abruptness of his compliance
prompted me to justify my familiarity

“It was your collar,” I explained
“that moved me to approach you.
admire one who does not fear to rebel
against convention,”

He looked at me very sadly and
“Tt pleases you to jest, my friend’’ he
said in a voice whose inflections and
quality were unpleasantly enervating.

The point of his remark eluding me
I stood standing for a moment half
expecting some further explanation.
But getting none I attributed my failure to grasp his meaning to the sublety
of the man and sat down beside him.

In the conversation that ensued, a
conversation for which my new acquaintance seemed to have little
enthusiasm, I learned that I had fallen
in with one of that profession known in
Sunjunk as Mediators, the most influential cult of these in my native
division of Sunjunk being the Consolers of the Soul. I was led to remark
how strange a thing it was that in
Sunjunk the Consolers were the only
people who as a class insisted on dressing themselves with a monotonous
uniformity; whereas here, the first
man I met who dared to depart from
the conventional dress of his sex should
belong to that profession which was
one with that of those same Consolers
of the Soul. @ trust I was not mistaken in attributing my friend’s continued silence to modesty rather than
to indifference, or, if he were indifferent,
that I am correct in believing that the
majority of my readers do not share
his lack of interest in the customs and
institutions of Sunjunk. For I record
here the substance of our very much
one-sided conversation. I told him
what advantages to themselves the
Consolers saw in their class distinctive
dress. How it safeguarded them from
the vulgarizing effect of the masses;
for the people, so easily recognizing
them by their dress, are loath to
blaspheme or act in any respect worldly
in the presence of such august emissaries of what you call the Divine. Thus
they kept themselves sweet and unsoiled.
The Consolers, moreover, though
their exclusive dress served to symbolize, in a manner easily grasped by the
not-so-learned people, the unbridgable
gulf between the spiritual and the
temporal life, the religious and the
scientific modes of thought, to the
demarcation of wnich divisions they
zealously applied themselves. They
were thus forever scannin: the findings
of Science in the hope of discovering
some small, apparently unmanageable
and unorthodox quantum which they
might identify with, to render as accurately as possibie in your language,
the Big Boss. They imagined that
in this way they preserved the basis for
a Supernaturalism very necessary in
that it explained away the miseries of
this world by dissolving them in the

Reflections of a Sunjunkian
Chapter I.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

    

unending happiness in a world to come

after death. It concerned them little
that the Big Boss should violate his
now inviolate laws. Moreover the
identification of unorthodox Nature
with the Big Boss was of no little
significartce. For the Big Boss himself
was quite unorthodox judged by their
professed morality. He was, however,
much they might protest to the contrary, the embodiment oi most of the
vices which his votaries repudiated in
their teachings. He was jealous, he
was revengeful, he was fond of sacrifical
orgies, This paradox, bald enough to
merit, I should think, the contempt
of even your Chesterton, was introduced into the creed of the Consolers in
a manner that may interest you. The
Big Boss is supposed at one time to
have sent, condescendingly through
human agencies, his only daughter,
Mira, to look around his domain
Sunjunk, to discover if his government
were in good repute and to reportback in thirty-three years. It deveiope
ed that the girl, inflamed with ths
pulse of life within her, adventurou_
and without fear, began to teach doc

trines subversive to the principles on
which the security of her father’s
government depended. Among other
things she insisted that ‘‘the light of
Sunjunk is the light within you” and
refused to capitalize the ‘‘l’’ in the
second light. Her father, anxious for
his position as Big Boss forthwith
conspired with his most trusted followers on Sunjunk to kill his rebellious
offspring as an impostor. It was done
Such is the interpretation an impartia
observer mtst place on the legend of
Mira, daughter of the Big  Boss.But the Consolers interpret it differ
ently.

Branding the murderers of Mra
heretics outside the pale of redemption,
the Consolers have maintained the
Supernatural parentage of the girl
have stripped her philosophy of its
reality and attributed her death to
the great love of her father, the Big
Boss, for his cnildren. Thus came the
Big Boss to embody the vices avowedly
repudiated by his votaries. Thus a
great and revolutionary philosophy
was devitalized o fit the needs of
fearul hildcfren. But by what trick
ery, you may ask, (although my companion did not) can such an untenable
position be held. Listen to our Consolers. With tongues honeyed with a
sorrowiul pleading they disarm the
intellectual and emotional interity
of their listeners. From aphorisms
sanctified, they maintain, by the
express approval of the Big Boss himself, they unwind their harangues as an
old maid unwinds thread from a spool.
Reverently they employ the irreverence
of repetition to anaesthetize the people.

The growine impationce of my
strange friend led me, at this point, to
abandon abruptly my observations
on the Consolers. And hoping to
appeal to that spark ot individuality
in him, evidenced, I thought by nis
dress, I removed, so uncomfortably
warm was I, my coat and vest and,
leaning over himi, tossed them through
the open window. Then as I rolled
up my shirt sleeves,

‘*Please tell me’”’ I said very humbly,
“the principles of your own religion,”

To my embarrassment he rose,
stumbled without apology over my
feet and strode up the aisle oi the car.
Anxious to learn if I had offended him
in anything I quickly followed and
rounded the end of the smoking room
just in time to see him disappear behind a small door, which he slammed
violently in my face. And although I
pleaded with him to let me in, looked
hastily for another possible exit from
the apartment into which he had
vanished and, finding none, waited
fully five minutes for him to come out
as he had entered, I was obliged to
leave the train without seeing him
again. And so nonplussed was I over
this affair that I could never summon
enough courage to inquire further
into the tenets of your religion.

(To be Continued).

-———— 0 -__
Any professor: ‘‘What was the former ruler of Russia called?”

Any Freshman: ‘‘The Czar, sir.”’

Any professor: ‘‘And his wife?”

Any Freshman: ‘‘The Czarina, sir?”

Any professor: ‘‘And the children?”

Any Freshman: ‘‘Czardines, sir.’’

HARD TO BEAT.

Last night I held a little hand,
So dainty and so neat,
Methought my heart would burst wit
joy,
So wildly did it beat.
No other hand into my soul
Could greater solace bring,
Than That I held last night, which was
Four aces and a king.
—(The Gateway).

——$———__

A hundred years ago today,
A wilderness was here.

A man with powder in his horn
Went forth to hunt a deer.
But times have changed some

what, and things
Are on a different plan—
A dear with powder on her nose
Goes forth to hunt a man.

Student Song
Service

The attention of students interested
in music is called to the Student Hour
of Song which is being conducted this
year under the auspices of the S. C. M.
by Mr. Percy Burgoyne. At the first
session held last Sunday it was agreed
to hold the service every Sunday at
8.30 p. m. in St. Andrew’s Church
Hall. While it is hoped to organize
within this group a student choir which
can give leadership in song services to
be held in the various churches, the
singing is so condticted as to be of
interest to all who enjoy group singing.
All such students nre invited to attend.

No Latin -NoB. A.

A University must justify its existence by its usefulness to society.
Each subject on a university curriculum must justify its place by its
utility, whether vocational, or cultural.
Nor is it enough that the subject have
some value—it must be comparedwith others, as to its relative imporr

 

tance. Required subjects in particulas
must on examination, reveal value
which account for their prererence

over electives. Two courses in Latin
must be taken by students seeking
to qualify for the degree of Bachelor
of Arts from Dalhousie. One wonders
what superlative values accrue from
the study of the dead language.

The American Classical League proposed, among others, the following
objectives of the study of Latin.

Increased ability to read, and understand Latin.

Increased understanding of those
elements in English which are related
to Latin.

Increased ability to read, speak and
write English.

A study of results of theLatin instruction in American secondary schools
and universities does indicate an
increase in ability to read and understand Latin. The increase is not so
much in quality as in quantity, being
chiefly a matter of a larger vocabulary
and an acquaintance with further
rules of syntax. There seems to be
little improvement in the ability to
choose the correct, effective, or precise meaning or a word as governed
by its particular setting. Practically
the same standards are demanded in
the university in the written and oral
translations, as in hign schocl, The
Latin usually is not read but translated
into English laboriously, word tor word,
There is a certain facility in understanding relationships between words
phrases, and clauses on the part of
some students, but many look on these
forms as complete in themselves and
not as parts of a connected whole.
The values gained by pursuit of this
objective are to say the least of dubious
importance.

There have been a number of experiments designed to discover whether
the second and third objectives are
being realized. Professor Hemon after
an extensive study found that Latin
pupils are distinctly superior to nonLatin pupils in their ability to interpret the Latin elements in their English
reading, This superior ability is due
to the direct use ot Latin, and is
probably realized in a measure by all
Latin students. Thomas J. Kirby,
inquiring into the value of Latin as a
preparation tor French concludes that
a knowledge of the amount of Latin
that a student has had in high school
would enable one to predict his success
in first semester French only slightly
better than by chance. Data regarding the quality of translation from
Latin to English is rurnished by Miss
Woodring o. Teacher’s College, Columbia University. She finds that lack
0. variety, poor sentence structure and
‘translation English’ predominate—a
condition which cannot be expected to
improve written English in other situations. Wilbur Cen states that ‘‘the
value of Latin study for English is
found, not in simple everyday Latin
derivations, but in that ever-widening
margin of less usual and increasingly
difficult words that extends in every
direction around the central body of
everyday words that constitute the
vocabulary ot every airly literate boy
and girl, amn or woman.” But in
Miss Woodring’s study indication that
students cf Latin display no effective
choice of words, or discriminating
selection of meanings to suit the context. There are probably some who
would not agree with the statement of
Wilbur Can, quoted above. They
would say that since approximately
half of the common English words
derive from Latin, the study of the
dead language would add greatly to
the understanding, and the proper use
of derivatives, Franklin Babbitt says
‘that if one can learn the meanings of
Latin words without tracing their preLatin genealogy one should be able
to learn the meaning of English words
without their pre-Englisi iistory”
He goes on to say that there are a few
dozen English prefixes and suffixes and
possiblt a few hundred word-simples
used as basic material in common word
compounding. Although derived originally from foreign languages, they
are now completely assimilated in the
English tongue. ‘The process of raising them to a level of consciousness
should be as easily carried by using
the elements ot the English tongue
as by using the elements of foreign
languages. Babbitt concludes the discussion by the following statement:
‘There is no sufficient proof that Latin
translations, and compositions, function in one’s current English vocabulary
sufficiently to warrant years of Latin
study of the usual type.”

(To be Continued).

> ?

" ae
isn “. a3
=

November. 9th,'1933

College Spirit
Lacking States
Football Fan

The students of Dalhousie expect
a winning team in every sport, vet
those who complain the loudest are
the slackers whe are too lazy to support
their teams. Most Dalhousians think
it beneath their dignity to cheer on
the team because it introduces too
much rah rah stuff. College spirit can
be overdone, but it is entirely absent
at our college. Since the graduation

of Kelly Morton and Sina Singer
organized cheering and the famous
Dalhousie band have disappeared.

Surely among 1,000 students there
must be two sucn geniuses as these.
The students only need a_ leader.
When our boys are on the short end
of the score it is the yells of encouragement trom their fellow students that
urge their weary bodies on toward the
opponents’ goal line for that will bring
vistory to Dalhousie. The memorable
season 0: 1930 can be repeated. We've
got the team! Give it your support.

   
    
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
 
     
    
  

 

i REPRE DARA Bee

Sport Comment

One meeting has already been held
of all those interested in boxing.
Percy Henley is manager of boxing and
he would like all those interested to
watch the notice-boards. There are
several well known mitt-artists attending Dal this season from St. F. X,

The writer agrees with Ernie Richardson and George ‘‘Pep’”’ Thompson
that the D. A. A. C. executive have
been somewhat lax especially regarding
Interfaculty sport. A little criticism
won’t hurt them, might even do some
good as Potter has already held one or
two meetings of the management committee.

 

 

Congratulations are in order for the
Dal Tennis Team upon winning the
Maritime Intercollegiate Championship. A great deal of the credit goes
to the female members of the team.
This is the second year they have
won the title. The Dal. Tournament
did not make much headway this year
due to poor weather.

 

——

Exchange Student
at Lalhousie

Miss Helen Hamilton, of Chesterville, Ontario, Queen’s Canadian Exchange Student, is studying Classics
at Dalhousie University this year.
Miss Hamilton is in her Junior year,
and will return to Queen’s for her
senior year—ome of the requirements
of the Exchange. Miss Hamilton is
in residence at Shirreff Hall, and is
very favorably impressed with Dalhousie,

The Canadian Federation of University Students has recently arranged
this Exchange.

The C. CF.

‘About sixty people in and
outside of Canada control the
daily lives and destinies of the
whole mass of Canadian people
from coast to coast,” was the
statement made by Mr. Eugene
Forsey in a lecture before the
Canadian Commonwealth Federation

In his opinion it is not a case
of crooked individuals exploiting
the people but the fault of our
Social System. ‘Place these
men in a system where they
can have a chance to be decent
and they will be so,” stated Mr
Forsey. The C. C. F. is striving
for just such a system, a system
wherein men will have a chance
to behave like normal human
beings instead of the heariless
‘Bulls and Bears’’ of our present
financial world.

ET aS re

Then there is the embryo (this does
NOT mean ‘spineless’) Theolog who
went to Y. P. S. on Friday and saidto
‘Her, ”

 

 

‘Perhaps I’m callow, but—
I don’t like that very queer expression
That flits across your face and seems to
say,
‘The devil with Frued and his Repression,
I would express myself in Nature’s way’
With you it seems to be an obsession
To prove which of us is the weaker clay;
I still consider it to be a transgression
To come home late at night in disarray .

I wish you could control your emotion

And act a little more rationally,

Perhaps, change it to a great devotion—

That would be more agreeable to me.

For it you don’t I'll bea nervous wreck

And—Oh, I say, let’s go somewhere
and neck!’

 
a

“The Value C OF
Classics

2

“5 ia nacsbus Sag oe people

| today in education seems to be that a

peers thie year

a nereenter Suan paying

fe =

tuition or Students’ Council fees. At

Oe ‘the end of the scholarship year the

hange Scholar is required to return

x to his “home” university to complete

oe

A s course, 1

Following are » the six who were: Gp

ass
4
Ta

pes ABs

Toronto.

‘pointed | for the current session:

eels: Peter B. Anderson of Alberta, to
McGill. J
‘Mary Macbeth of Alberta, to

3 Z

Ty R. Preudhomme of Manitoba,

to Toronto.

4, Jean Hoshal of Saskatchewan, to

oot, ‘

ies 5. Helen Hamilton of pecet s, to

: ies < 6: Edward] Fox of Western vate,

La Sha?
anal i”
“ ve
i rhe

+t

we ee

t
=
'

to U. B.C.

es : : the same time six yer who
% Exchange Scholarships last session

‘ oe bon back at their “home”! univer
Ba

ee.

Fin’: . ee

a from Alberta.

a

os it a

LAS
ce

a:

ee Dalhousie.
Br rk, a; F

; oa

Maes 2. Leo |

ce re “Bie: ‘Watkins eek as AiSea

from Toronto.
wieltan bast at Alberta
- from McGill. €

8. Isabel Alexander back at Toronto

4, Ruth Pollock back at Toronto
- from Alberta. se

6. W.A. Alexander back at Queen’s

m Dalhousie.

"é. Arthur Weldon back at McGill

te, _ Two Canadian university debaters
e touring Great Britain this fall

auspices ‘of the National |
f Canadian University

young man who is going out to earn
his Own living should include in his

, [studies only such subjects as he thinks |
lare. going to be directly remunerative.

0 | Among these one notices such courses
shes }as French, History, Political Science, |
| by the N. F.C. U. S. with

approval of the university authori¢ of Canada, T he holder 7 an

Chemistry, Physics and in a few cases
Latin or even Greek. Why is it that
so many study sciences and modern
languages and so few the classics?
“Oh,” people say, ‘‘why study dead
languages? What good will they ever
do us?” Some serious-nm:inded people,
however, do not take this view on the
matter. Indeed it is very easily ascertained, by any intelligent person
who takes the trouble to investigate
that it it were not for great achieve
ments by the ancients in the realm ot
thought and that these thoughts were
| expressed in writing, the modern world
would be worse off. I. it were not that
Greek and Roman iiterature has
descended to us, many of the other
fields of study would never have been
heard ot; indeed, their very names are
taken directly from the classics. The
philosophical ideas of the Greeks were
so sound that no present day student
can claim the title of a philcsopher
unless he has a knowledge oi the old
Greek philosophy. How much more
enjoyment is to be had by t1eading this
as the Greeks themselves wrote it, and
not as some scholar has translated it.
Many o: those engaged in the study
of scientific subjects, who look upon
the study of classics as an occupation
beneath their dignity, do not seem to
realize that the essence of the courses

they are pursuing is based on theories
taken from the writings of ancient

Greece. Mathematics, one of the
most important subjects in which
these so-called scientific men are en
gaged, derived its great incentive from
the achievements of such men as
Pythagoras, Archimedes, and Euclid.

Again, when the civilization of Greece
was at its height the Greek doctors |
dominated the whole of the then

) civ a, in the medical profession,
Men I ike Hippocrates and later Galen

1¢ foundation tor many of the
sand phe pis Thera whch ¢ are the |
of modern » “medicine. In the

ane Seas sciences of physie'’s and|

’ meee are George alee of Mt.
Bk Allison ‘University, New Brunswick,
% rand A. K. Dysart Jr. of the University

of Manitoba.

In addition to debating

=" at the universities, Forsey and Dysart

ais
ae

_ wil take part in a radio debate against

ge rs , an Oxford-London team. ‘This is the
oe
oe

‘second team to be sent to Great Britain
by the N. F. C. U. S. The first, a
_ McGiil-Toronto combination, went

over in 1928,

A series of debates to be held in the
French language is something in the
_ nature of an experiment in this country,

Bote Vast when the debates take place

outside of Quebec. During the latter
half of November Paul Dumas and

~ Gerard Cournoyer of the University of

ae enn 2 F. -. U. S. auspices.

=,

Montreal will engage in such a tour
They

St. Boniface College (University of

_ Manitoba), Mount Royal College (Cal
_ gary), and the University of Alberta.
In January and February of 1984

ry a the main feature of the N. F. C. U.S.
rip

has

debati ing program is scheduled. A
team from Batts College, Lewiston,
Maine, will tour Canada from Halifax
to Vancouver. Bates College is, ir
the field of debating, probably the most
ee on the continent.

_ The growth of some of the univer
rs a in. Rona in recent years has

~ in respect of students of university

are as follows: _ University of

ft: aaa of eahoha 3,309
~ 3, 184; Laval 2,852; McGill

3 c eal, comes second with
‘ viipnis ushie’ with | 8,088,

biology Archimedes and Aristotle were
|pioneers. If it were not for the work

lof these two men, much ot the impor- |

tant matter would be lacking in these
fields. Tven to mention these scientific
subjects is to say that they came from
the Greek. What could be more Greek
than the words physics, biology,
philosophy?

Our modern language students today
say, ‘Don’t study dead languages that
you never use; be up to date andstudy
French and Spanish.’ However, if
these students will take the trouble
of examining a few French or Spanish
words, they will be surprised at the
percentage of these words that are
either derived or taken directly trom
the Latin. Moreover, the Latin language is the basis of many French and
Spanish idioms.

One great achievement of the Rom
‘ans which has remained predominant

down through the ages is the Roman
law. Doubtless many a political scien
tist of today has figured out what he
considers is a perfect form of government. A very few of these men have

had the opportunity to put their thecry
to the test, but has any country a

perfect form of government? Why
not? Every theory has had some
flaw which resulted in the collapse of
the whole system, and, being in want of
something better, all have gone back
to the ferm of government of the
Romans. This is the basis of government of all the great nations today.
Great Britain, France, the United
States, all have the theory of Roman
law underlying much of their government. The legal vocabulary of Great

Britain, one of the most precise and

clear ever compiled, is strewn with
words taken directly from Latin which
would make it difficult to understand
without a clear knowledge of that
language,

In conclusion let us touch on a spot
nearer home. On reading any of the
great English authors, such as Shakespeare, Milton, and Dr. Johnson, one
would notice the influence of the classieal literature. Their clear and precise
mode of speaking, the structure of their
sentences, and the classical references

Jin their works show a thorough insight

c i - into classical literature, and to under;| stand them one must study this source.
8. One learns to write good English by

very real handitap.

“DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Rugby Football

John McCarthy

Of recent years Football teams from
New Zealand, Australia and South
Africa have made evtended Tours in
the Old Country and very popular they
have proyed to be. It has been a case
of Jack being no good, if not better,
than his master. The youngsters have
grown up and proved themselves more
than their Fathers’ master. Canada
ventured upon an invasion of the U. K.
about thirty years ago, but the results
were not very encouraging. Our climate is such that unless the team
play in the Spring or Summer the
season is altogether too short to enable
us to become really proficient. The
various Touring Teams have been
known as The ‘All Blacks’’ from New
Zealand, The Waratas Wallabys and
Kangeroos from Australia and the
Springboks from South Africa.

Of all these Teams, the All Blacks
(1905 and 1924) have been by gar the
most popular.

The South Africans (1906, 1912 &
1931) while they have been always a
fine side have indulged in too much
kicking to suit the taste of the public.
Upon their last visit they relied upon
giant forwards who followed up very
fast and tackled well and were sup
ported by the outside half, B. Osler, }

who invariably found Touch and
dropped many goals as well, but the
clever running, feinting and passing
of the All Blacks was missing. The

game is played in South Africa upon

grounds very hard and dusty and
entirely devoid of grass so that the
English grdunds may have proved a
In order to cope

with the immense furwards of the

Springboks, the New Zealanders upon
their visit to South Africa in 1928
(I think) brought a pack that averaged
two hundred and fifteen pounds per
man. England has had many” large
men in her teams, notable D. Jowett of
Yorkshire who stood six feet 7 ins. and
weighed two hundred and fifty-seven
pounds. Scotland has had Charles
Reed and MacEwan, Ireland the two
Ryans (Jack and Mike) and Wales,
Brice the Aberaron Policeman. Size
of course is not everything, but it
counts a lut on a muddy field with a
slippery ball, A light scrum under
such circumstances has very little
chance of securing possession.

Will we ever have a Nova S otia
County Championship? In England,
the country is divided into Northern
East Midlands, West Midlands, Eastern Counties, Metropolitan District
and South Western District. The
winners play off like Clubs in Cup ties
and finally the winner is County
Champion.

In Yorkshire a County Cup is competed for annually and attracts hundreds of entries. The Midland Counties have a Cup competition as well
and all make for a healthy rivalry.

In Ireland each ot the four Provinces
Ulster, Leinster, Munster and Connaught have a Cup tourney and very
well fought out they are. Some people
dislike Cup competition and say the
Cups are the emblems of hatred, malice
and all uncharitableness, but they
help in a very real sense to keep the
spirit of the game healthy, and cause
Clubs to strive in a manner they
certainly would not otherwise do.

New Books, Dalhousie Book

Club, Since
Biography.

Blunden, Edmund: Charles Lamb and
his Contemporaries.

Buchan, John: Sir Walter Scott.

Canot, Capt. Theodore: Adventures uf
an African Slaver. (Gift).@

Churchill, Winston S.: Thoughts and
Adventures.

Graham, Stephen: Ivan the Terribie.

Jacks, L. P:: My American Friends.

Kemble, Dr. James: Idolsand Invalids.

Keynes, J. M.: Essays in Biography.

Kingsley, Mary: Life of (ordered but
not yet received’,

Lockhart, R. H. Bruce: Memoirs of a
British Agent.

Mitchell, Pryce: Deep Water.

Nichols, Beverley: Are They the Same
at Home- (On loan).

O’Sullivan, Maurice: Twenty Years AGrowing. (Book of the Month for
September, 1933).

Reitz, Colonel Deneys: Commando.

Thondda, Lady: This Was My World.

Street, A. G.: Farmers’ Glory.

Sutherland, Halliday: The Arches of
the Years. (Ordered byt not yet
received).

con ‘Tirpirtz,
Memoirs,

Waln, Nora: The House of Exile.

Zweig, Stefan: Marié Antoinette.
(Ordered but not yet received).
Escapers All. (Collection of Stories
of War Time escapes).

Grand-Admiral: My

Economics and Government.

Angell, Sir Norman: The Great Illusion
of 1988.
Cassell, Gustav: The Crisis
World’s Monetary System.
Fay, C, R.: The Corn Laws and Social
England,

Foster, Sir William: England’s Quest
of Eastern Trade.

King, Veronica and Paul: The Raven
on the Skyscraper. (Gift).

Laski: Democracy in Crisis,

Rogers, James Harvey:
‘Weighs her Gold.

Roosevelt, President Franklin: Looking Forwnrd.

Strachey, John; The Coming Struggle
for Power,

in the

America

Geography and Travel.
Capek, Karel: Letters from Holland.
Van Loon, H. W.: Geography. (Bonus)
Villiers, Alan; Grain Race.

Science.

Bragg, Sir William: The Universe of

June, 1933

Jeans, Sir James: A New Background

of Science.

| Kallet and Schlink: One Hundred

Million Guinea Pigs.

Pitkin, Dr. Waiter: Life Begins at

Forty.
Planck, Max: Where is Science GoingWegener, Alfred: The Theory of Continental Drift.

History.

Collier and Lang: Just the Other Day.
Harris, Sir J.: A Century of Emancipation.

Art.

Casson, Stanley: Some Modern Sculp_tors.

Casson, Stanley: Twentieth Century
Sculptors,

Robson, Albert H.: Canadian Landscape Painters.

Education.
Composium by eight leading authorities: The University in a Changing
World, (On loan).

Essays, Literature, etc., Fiction.

Anthony Adverse.
Month for August,

Allen, Hervey:
Book of the
1933).

Fallada,
Now1933).

Haldane, J. B.: Science and Human
Life.

Housman, Alfred Edward: The Name
and Nature of Poetry.

Mann, Thomas: Three Essays,

Murasaki, Lady: Tales from the Japan
ese.
The Tale of the Genji.
The Sacred Tree.
A Wreath of Cloud.
Blue Trousers.
The Lady of the Boat.
The Bridge of dreams,

Rawlings, Marjorie: South Moon Under. (Book of the Month for June,
1933).

Shaw, Bernard: Adventures of a Black
Girlin her Searchfor God. (Bonus),

Shat, T. S.: Odyssey of Homer,

Stephen, Leslie: Sketches from Cambridge.

Waddell, Helen: Peter Abelard,

Woolf, Virginia: The Common Reader,
vols. 1 and 2.

Hans: Littl Man, What
(Book of the Month for July,

DALHOUSIE, PREPARE AND
‘KEEP NOV. 22 OPEN

A Thoiies Kor Your
Thoughts (Mae
West)

A compendium of campus opinion
on that much discussed picture, “I’m
No Angel.”

Ruth Crandall, Blues singer:
Pretty good and pretty bad. I did
enjoy the first half hour, but, after that
—well, not so hot or perhaps a little
too hot. There’s such a thing as clean
filth and dirty filth, and I think there
was a little too much of the latter in
that show.

Bord Stoddard, Man about town:
Oh, it was alright. Pretty smooth in
spots, but nothing to get excited about.
Now, when I was down in Digby last
summer

Potter Oyler, Pres. D. A. A. C
I can’t see how intelligent
patronize such pictures. They are
morally degrading. I am convinced
that only the lower types of mind are
attracted by sucn perversions.

Bob McLellan, med. student:
Crude, but funny in spots. We med.
students learned more ‘‘surface anatomy’ in two hours at the show than
we learned in two months in the lab.
‘Do I make myself clear, boys?’

J. K. Oldfield, Socialite The picture was depraved, but my sense of
humour is depraved too. When the
wise-cracks were good they were good,
but when they were bad they were
better. Mae West is terrible, but Bet
lines are good.

. C. M. Nicholson, Pope, Pine Hill
Divinity Hall: In a day when General
Motors are favoring lighter body styles,
Mae West is turning to a heavier
chassis. Although it was not a fit
picture for my flock to see, yet speaking
in an ex-officio capacity, I'd like to hear
Miss West say ‘‘C’m up and see me
some time.”’

Cecily Kirky, post graduate student in psychology: Mae West was
crude: she displayed the inherent
characteristics and instincts of every
woman without the customary coy
retreat. She revealed an aspect of
feminine psychology which we try to
conceal, hence most girls disliked the
picture without realizing the subeee reason. This was accentuated by the fact that her clothes weren’t
chic. No woman could forgive that in
a feminine star.

Helen Holman, freshette: I
thought it was wonderful, although I
don’t know just why; maybe it’s ony
because I like to go places with Ted
Crease, and he was with me,

people

Urges Support Of
Political Club

The Editurs,
Dalhousie Gazette.

A few years ago, the young people
of Halifax who held Conservative
Political leanings, felt the need ‘or a
-Orum, a place where they could express
their views on politics, and political
conditions. They also desired to become educated in debating and public
speaking, Hence the Bennet Club
was born. This title was chosen because o. the greatness and the integrity
9. its possessor, so that the name itseli
would serve as a constant stimulant to
the members. The purpose of the
Club, in short, is to foster the principles and policies of the Conservative
party, and thereby secure good government.

Since the primary purpose of the
Bennett Club is to educate its members politicaily, the outstanding Conservative statesmen of Nova Scotia
have been guest speakers, including:
Col, Harrington, former Premier of
Nova Scotia; Hon. John Doull, former
Attorney General and present Judge
of the Supreme Court; R. H. Butts,
K.C., M. L. A.; Felix P. Quinn, M. P.;
J. A. Walker, K. C., farmer Minister af
Natural Resources; C. B. Smith, K.C.,
former President of the Nova Scotia
Coénservative Association; Hon. J. Fred
Fraser, former Provincial Secretary
and Chairman of the Nova Scotia
Power Commission; Hon. Dr. Murphy,
former Minister of Health.

The last election showed just how
valuable the formation of the Bennet}
Club had been, for many niembers were
active in organization work and in
public speaking. Giving members
practise in addressing public audiences
is a most important phase of the Club’s
work, This is brought about by
conducting an Effecitve Speaking
Group, in which considerable interest
isshown. ‘To encourage this endeavor,

Page Four

Official Report Of
Council Meet

The Council of the Students met
in the Law Classroom at 2.30 p. m.,
October 29th. The President was in
the chair and all members were present.

The minutes of the last meeting
were read and approved and business
atising therefrom taken up. Mr. Oxley repotted that there were no new
developments in connection with the
agreements with the University and
with King’s Students’ Council. The
President reported that the Student
Forum held to consider the advisability of abolishing the Year Book and
the D. A. A. C., had been. successful
in arousing considerable interest in
these institutions,

Mr. Oyler and Mr. Tanton appeared

-?| before the meeting on behalf of the

D. A. A. C; and stressed the desire of
thnt organization to cooperate with
the Council of the Students in the best
interests of sport at Dalhousie. They
asked, on behalf of the Management
Committee of the D. A. A. C., that the
Council pass a by-law to the effect
that all matters affecting the D. A. A. C
be submitted to that body for its
consideration before they ure finally
passed on by the Council. The Council expressed-its appreciation of the
attitude of the D. A. A. C. and its
desire to cooperate with that body.

A committee was appointed te
investigate the condition of athletics
at Dalhousie, to look into existing or
proposed agreements affecting the D.
A. A. C., and to temporarily supplant
all existing committees dealing with
athletic matters. This committee is
to consist ot the President, Vice-Pres.,
and Secretary of the D. A. A. C.; and
Mr. Oxley, Mr. Stewart, and Mr
Rankin representing the Council.

After due ae the Council
decided that all D. A. C. budgets
already approved a ts Council for
submission to the Finance Committee,
should be rescinded and handed batk
to the D. A. A. C. for revision. All
other athletic budgets were also referred
to tha t body— including a request from
the Track Team for a grant to cover
expenses of a team to the Mar. Indoor
Champs. at St. John, on Noy. 3rd,

The President pointed out that the
total of the budgets far exceeded the
amount of the funds available for
distribution. The balance of the time
was spent in cutting down the budgets
presented by Glee Club and Sodales
with the intimation that a proportional
cut would hale to be made wherever
possible in the budgets of other organizations.

It was decided that the Secretary
should get in touch with the D. A. A..C.
with a view to securing a list of players,
in the various branches of sport, who
had failed to turn in equipment last
year and, if possible, in previous years.
Also that these men should be billed
for such equipment.

On motion the meeting adjourned at
5.30 p. m.

M. M. RANKIN,
Secretary-Treasurer,
October 29733.

the public spirited Mr. H. P, MacKeen,
K. C., has offered a special prize for
public speaking. Many of the members are also interested in debating,
and a forward step has been taken in
this direction by conducting debntes
among the members themselves to
decide on the teams who will debate
before the public to determine the
winner of the cup which has been
offered by Mr. J. A. Walker, K. C.,
Honorary President ot the Bennett
Club,

Although the primary purpose of the
Club is political, it also has its social
side. Since its inception two years
ago, the Annual Ball has been the gala
social event of the year, This year
the Bennett Ball will be held at the
Lord Nelson Hotel on the 17th of this
month. Moreover several informal
dances and bridges have also been held.
After each monthly meeting there is a
social program with dancing and retreshments, The two hundred members of both sexes, under the Presidency ot a former Dalhousian, Mr.
Joseph L. Powell, invite all Dal
students who are interested to attend
the meetings of the Bennett Club.
Notice of meetings will be posted on
the bulletin boards.

It is worth while remembering that
the Club is named after a most distinguished graduate of Dalhousie’s
Law School.

H. L. WEBBER,

 
>) Ele “g

     
   
      

too the fearsome one, Mahiks of Abelz,
and there was much laughter for is it
not the Glee Kloob; and they who
issue the chekks unto the studes—
behold, are they not many leagues
away?

7. And when the inhabitants of
Shee-Reff-Yaw! made merry, lo they
gave unto the tavored ones of the gods,
Beeds, and of those who received
Beeds were the General of the Hosts,
Herbee of the tribe of Grant, who is
also a dancing master, and Duhugg of
Muree who takes care of the little ones
in Dal, and the burly Taneetun and
Freyeddee, the Father of the Council,
and Beel the ruler of the Gazyett and
Loherway, the Haunter of the Fortress
whose interest therein changeth ns do
the seasons of the year.

the d met ; in : Battle with
Qt are tribes and their
s was Maer and lo, at ‘their

     
  
  
  
   
  
   
        
             
    

ellers of Shee-Reff-Yawl tremble
their sandles, and there is
Dut uhugg of Behentt and the other
Dt hugg, and Ztodd of the Meds and
~ a, srily the newcomer Al-Lee of Zayentepret, and Potyar uf the Vale of Or_chards, and Neehill trom the famous
resort uf Glayizzbay. But alas, gone
F are the days of Weekwire, the captain
i of the host, and Artzee the Readhead ot
. Ps the “Makkdonald clan who was the
Fullback, and Davey and Orton the
iS einy, and Goherj the Horseshoe, who
cee sa Dent and lives in Noowater on the
Ee eaeee of Capebrett and many of the
ee _ heroes of the former days of Dal.

8. And Mayen-Land the Thin One
aS tas showered upon the Meds queez
wee “upon queez and the wail of the people
eS Se has risen unto the heavens as they
. . pore over the Anatommee manuscripts
a ‘ and there is much gnashing of teeth;
ke oe the famous one Raliff of Smeet he
be _ too gloats over the stricken ones in
nis Pathol and heaps high the lekktchures
and even Daddy of Fry, bereft of
B B beard, adds fuel to the suffering,

4, Now the Frosh, men and women
4 "gathered together and said we would
x put on a showing for the Studes. And
Py they called in Whyitzz, and Jeemee the
new captain of the Glee Kloob, and

 
 

 
 

  

       
     
      
                
       
      
      
   
    
     
    
   
   
  
    
   
  
    
     
   
  
  
   
  

  

  

  

8, And in the Forrest amongst the
Ztenoggs is the little one that hails
from Yinvernez and Porrit-Yud and
she belongs to the Makkdonyild tribe
and to her come the men of law with
their strange and secret tales; and
the female Powheep who knows beforehand the fates of the examen and the
Meds and Dents seek to learn their
destiny from her but in vain, Yea,
comical it is to see the burly meds
grovel for a tip from her lips; and there
is the daughter of Leetil-Yer and she
conducts large transactions in commerce with the pullers of teeth and
much gold comes to her coffers from
them who drill the molars. Of the
Ztenoggs at Studd behold it will be
related soon.

 
 

  
  
 
   
 

  
   
 

   
 
  
   
 

 
   
 

  
     
     
    

9. And the trumpet called the
people unto the geem saying, come
and we shall dwell on the fate of the
yearly chronicle, yea the Yeeherbuk
and that which is called the Deeyaesee
and they came and some denounced
and some praised. And Ztoowart and
Wyteyead arose and said, wherefore
should we contribute to a Yeeherbuk
when lo, only they who leave the
land receive it and even they must
rion pay many shekels for it. Of what

j avail are our ten buhux? Verily into
whuse jeeyenz do all the gelders flow?
acer

Pot a said, my bretltren, let
J eten i is not as ill unto the Deeyasee for |

ad [it is. a goodly child and Tehedd from
¥ _ across the harbour, he too pleaded for

t D - the Deeyasee and the people relented
4 of Dom ae e set and spared both the Yeeherbuk and the
| Feeishyure, the Scribe of Zodal. Deeyasee.
_ 6. And after they practised much,

“behold the Frosh came unto the geem 10. And now the games of the

ch id ‘the Sth assembled there in Baziket have arrived and soon Zamee

+ 1umbers and amongst the Frosh in and the sons of Kreez and Boherden,
(at evee : the scandal ferreter of the Kampus,

Beas pipet whoie ad 3 and Baw-Weld and many others will
F ae caleeng, and Bet-Yee of Newglasg, bring victory to the land. And many
the former seat of Toryeez and she of then will gather es the recesses of the
the ‘Hoy ellmeyen family and the stu- King of Powlerpyeez and the latter

dent @aperer, Rowhellee with Ruhudd will gorw wealthy on the shekels that
my ae parson Benzen and there was will flow into his treasury, yea verily.

Round Table Club

a

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
   
   
    
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
  

 
   

   

   
  
 
  
   
     
    

 

 
     
  

NPs

Fraternities

TI

 

Delta Sigma Pi.

    
    
  
  
  
   
    
  
    
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
   

     
  
   
  
 

The members of Delta Sigma Pi,
International. Commerce Fraternity,
held an enjoyable formal dance at the
Nova Scotian Hotel on Monday, Noy.
6th. Jerry Naugler’s orchestra provided the music for the evening.

ay the Round Table Club
elected this year’s officers and dissed a programme for the year.
‘Potter Oyler and Allan Findley were
ele lected to the positions of president
_and  secretnry respectively. Bill Jost
ane i Ernie Richardson were selected to
act on the committee, with Prot. Max=, we Baas as faculty representative.
con _ After some discussion as to the fees
and future meetings, Prof, MacKay
is empowered to approach coming
urers and arrange meetings with
them, either at lunch time or whenever

=
| HALIFAX TAXI CO.
i s=" BL7376

| 2B e. fox to Students

b

 
  
  
  
   
    
   
  
   

Phi Kappa Pi.

A unique and enjoyable scavenger
party followed by a dance in the
chapter house was held Hallowe’en
Night.~ After scavenging for over an
hour everyone gathered at the house
and danced. The party was pronounced an unqualified success by all
present.

You Can Be

as fussy as you like. On our
menu you will find an assortment of foods that will tickle
the most jaded appetite.

   
 

 

 
  
  
 

     
 
  
     
 
 
 
  
      
   
       

—
What is more if you see it on
our menu you are guaranteed
fine food, carefully prepared,
and artistically served.

Prices are in keeping with the
times, 25c. for full course meal.

French Cafe
Hollis St.

one block from Station

    
     
   
 
 
  
   
 

 
  
  
  
 

people ‘murmured and said
| buhux, alas. And

  
   
   
  

 

     
 

   
 
 
 

    
  
 

The Innocent
Bystander

X comes to college because his father
is influential and thinks his position
demands that he send his son to college;
Y comes because his father doesn’t
amount to much and Y wishes to move
up in the Scheme of Things; 7 is still
wondering just why he did come to
college. Q represents the faculty in
tot?, who is wondering himself, but
doesn’t wish to wonder overmuchlest
the dictates of his conscience demand
that he resign his job and take that
job in the filling station, spoken c! last
year.

But there are reasons for everything
—one boy will take a girl out for no
good reason, and another will take the
girl out for no good reason.

Liquor’s five stages: verbiose, amatose, lachrymose, bellicose, comatose.
Old but clean.

 

We ask anyone who is sceptical of
internationalism to inspect thought
fully the roster of names on the alleged
American football team Dalhousie now
rejoices in.
so to speak. Can't have a team without a name, so with malice towards

Where Greek meets Greek,

none, we suggest that of the ‘Bronx
Ambassadors.” They already have
a cheer and a cocktail of their own.
And boy oh boy! | Watch them handle
the old pigskin against St. Mary’s.

 

Complaints have been coming in
recently anent the lack of support accorded the football team (the ‘‘Tigers’’,
not the ‘Ambassadors’’), but we believe
that this is the fault, in part, of the
managers. The Dal-Acadia game, beyond being written up in the ‘‘Gazette,”’
was not given a single bit of publicity,
so that what is the biggest game of the
year, and what should be the best attended was given all the advertising
and fan-fare of trumpets accorded a
pluck in a supplementary exam. Less
than half the college knew ot the game.
No placards were posted, as should
be posted in the Tuck shop, Kings,

lecture buildings, and local stores,

Not a bit of effort was madeto draw
out a crowd, no one was urged to come,
and the whole affair slipped by just as
as everything else slips by here, Yet
people wonder why Acadia wins. How
about an advertising manager for the
teams? Better still, a bomb for the
whole college.

‘‘The scene was a brilliant one—
Shediac decked out for the occasion
with flags and strings of fluttering
peanuts.’’—St. John ( N. B.) Telegraph
Brilhhiant for New Brunswick,
(Cribbed from the ‘‘New

Journal.

anyway.
Yorker’’,)

 
 
      
 
 
 

The editor has been the recipient of
many inquiries as to the boast of the
“Gazette” of being the oldest college
paper in America. It is, using many
of the original jokes, the same news
stories (substituting different names),
the very first sports write-ups with the
very first optimistic prophecies, and
the faculty speeches are identically the
same. The only difference lies in the
heading—in 1869 the line read: ‘‘The
first college paper in America’’; this
was changed the next issue to the
heading still in use to-day.

—— dom -— -- _

Sigma Chi.

   
   
  
  
 

An informal tea dance was held at
207 South Park St., Saturday, Nov. 4th.
after the football game. Initiation uf
new members will take place in the
near future.

BIRKS=

Fraternity and Sorority Members may often make substantial savings on guards for their
pins by buying them from Birks.

 

Prices submitted without obligation.

Henry Birks & Sons

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

     
   

    
   
  

 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
     
 
  
  
  
 

     
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
     
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
  
   
    
  

 
 
 
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     

  
  
   
  
       

What Is Wrong
With Dalhousie?

Both past and present the alarming
lack of student interest in the affairs
of Dalhousie have been attacked and
lamented in the press and on the platform. The fighting tiger spirit that
carried Dalhousie to victory in sports,
debating and literary activitv in the
period following the Great War hase
died in the hearts of present Dalhousians. The seriousness of the situation is no mvth, Thirteen students
show up to an important D. A. A. C.
meeting, eightv students out of nine
hundred and fiftv registered in the
college decide the fate of the Year
Book and the D. A. A. C., two of the
oldest and most important organizations on the campus, about 25 students
witness the Interfacultv Track Meet,
37 deci'de whether or not Dalhousie
should fight for Ki ng and Countrv, and
so on ad infinitum. What is the
cause of this inertia on the part of the
students? Have we less lovaltv to
our Alma Mater than our predecessors
iand members of other colleges? Whv
is it that a comparative stranger like
ohn MacCarthv, the football coach,
shows more of the true fighting Dalhousie spirit than anv of our 9650
students?

The centre of the whole trouble ties
in one fact and in one fact alone. The
present students of Dalhousie are
senttered all over the city and thus
lost that family, cooperative spirit of
‘fall for one and one for al:.”’ Students
go through their whole college years
without meeting one-tenth of their
classmates. And yet we are surpirsed
at the lack of true college spirit. How
can we create a fighting Dalhousie
spirit when the students do not even
know each other and have no ways of
informally discussing their common

views?

The key to the solution of the
whole situation we believe lies in the
establishing by the University of
Student Boarding Houses asa Students’
Residence is quite out of the question.
The present Residences and fraternities are inadequate and handle but a
small percentage of the students.
Present rent rates are cheap. The
University authorities can easily find
three or four empty houses near each
other and within reasonable distance of
the University. A committee could
then be appointed to get cooks, maids
and the required help. The houses
would, of course, be rented. Then
students would be assigned to each
house. The committee could visit the
houses and see that they were properly
heated and kept in proper condition.

The result would be a definite turn
for the better, Co-operation and
friendly feeling would be increased a
hundredfold. Each house could throw
dances and parties and thus greatly
increase the social life of the University,
Football games, debates and Glee Club
shows would be discussed in houses
containing only Dalhousie students.
Yesterday’s lecture, last week’s quiz
could be got from your next door
neighbor. Students would get to know
each other intimately by close association. The family co-operative spirit
would be revived and the great pass
word of Dalhousie would be “E
pluribus unum.”
-—— ~~» -»__ —

University of Chicago.

A senior was fooled recently when
he called a theatre and asked to have
a box reserved for two. The puzzled
answer came back “‘that they did not
have boxes for two. “‘Isn’t this the
theatre?” he asked. ‘‘Why no, you
are talking to the undertaker!’

 

   
  

Service - - 
with a smile combined with
satisfying eats is a hard combination to beat.

Make your stomach smile
with a before breakfast snack
or that late sandwich after studies are over. And by the way
we are open later than most.

For any time in between we
suggest our fountain service.

A complete stock of fine confectionery, pastries, smokes and
fruit.

Where the college men congregate.

GARDEN SWEETS AND
LUNCHEONETTE

160 Spring Garden Rd.

Just around the corner from the
Forrest Building.

  

    
    
    
    
   
     
  

   
  
   
  
    

i oa
‘

—— re eins

'has ensured the success of all his

Page Five

SRS SSIES SE AVON EET TL LT EAE Se tee

There ts something in
knowing how to make
eigarettes. Look around
you and notice how many
men and women smoke
Winehesters !

 

 

Winchester

CIGARETTES

Blended Right!

 

SAVE THE
POKER HANDS

 

 

Dr. Patterson’s

! Open Letter
AidAppreciated Meat

November 5, 1933.
Dear Editor:

We feel it our duty to bring to the
attention of loyal Dalhousians the
ghastly state of affairs existing at the
present time. It has often been said
that ‘‘united we stand, divided we
fall” and Dal has truly fallen! Why
can’t we learn to work together?
Why does a chicken cross the road?
Did Columbus stop when he saw
nothing ahead?

As Bobby Donahoe says ‘‘figure it
out for yourself.”

It is really amazing the lack of
enthusiasm shown at the Dal-Acadia
game Saturday—we take our hats off
to the five who did yell (three cheer
leadersandtwoalumni). Before going
farther we may state here that we are
disgusted with everything in general.

Why even the Knocker’s Column
hasn’t anything on us.

Why is it necessary to put the
names of the chaperones who don’t
attend our college dances on the
programme—we mean the President,
not Eddie Cantor,

In fact our little ‘‘college by the sea”
seems all watered up—and they ask
it Dal students will fight for King and
Country if there is another War?
Don’t make us laugh! Do you want
our answer—at least eight Dalhousians
will go—the three cheer leaders, the
two alumni, Red ‘Pain’, the mighty
Lester, and good old ‘Mac’.

Do we make ourselves clear, boys?

Students at Dalhousie will regret
the approaching departure for Toronto
of Dr. G.S. Patterson. Dr. Patterson
spent the winter of 1932-3 in Halifax
as Secretary for the Student Christian
Movement in the colleges in the Maritimes. His chief work wns. with
Dalhousie; and urder his guidance such
improvements were made that the
Y. M. C. A. kindly consented to allow
him a two months’ leave of absence
to nssist in the organization of the
S. C. M. unit at Dalhousie this yenr.

Dr. Patterson has brought new life
to an organization which had almost
died a natural death. With his excellent hospitality to all ideas and
opinions he has been a most successful
mediator between the students and the
professors; and he has lent valuable
assistance to the creation of the new
study groups which flourished last
year and which have been continued
successfuily this year.

Dr. Patterson’s practical capability

undertakings. Under his direction the
S. C. M. units organized a joint conference at Mount Allison last fall; and
at the beginning of this term a most
successful retreat was held at Glen
Haven by the Dalhousie unit. Plans
are already on foot for another Maritime conference this Christmas. Dr.
Patterson contributed both valuable
suggestions and personal assistance to
these undertakings.

TWO STUDES,
WRITE
Ww R

Last winter many students enjoyed
the hospitality of both Dr. and Mrs.
Patterson at informal gatherings of
various sorts and found a warm welcome and friendship which students,
pnrticularly those from out of town
greatly appreciated.

WE
SELL

Ww

All students who have known the
Pattersons and have benefitted by
their good work will join in wishing
them every success and satisfaction
in their work in Toronto where Dr.
Patterson will resume his duties with
the Y. M.C. A.

T|DAL STATIONERY T

Dalhousie
University Store

+

rr

E
WRITE

 

Here are a few questions that interesting students would like to have
answered,

Do you think Mae West’s picture
was greeted with applause by the
students. Answer: Yes,

Tiger Mackasey saw it three times.

 

It’s time to consider that new

coat
JOHN TOBIN & CO.

LIMITED

The latest models are at new

prices ranging from

19.50 to 34.50

As a style tip the favorite cam
Wholesale

Grocers

Tea Merchants

pus colors this season are Greys

and Browns.

WINTERS BROS, LTD,

391 BARRINGTON ST.
Special Students Discount 10%

HALIFAX, CANADA

 

a 7 a

2 « F
te ec ee ee er eb eee pe

 
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
    
 
  
   
   
   
    
 
   
   
  
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE November 9th, 1933

    

     

Line-ups:
Law-— Forwards, Squires, MacGillivray, L. Ferguson, McDougall, McCul
Dal Eleven e
Tables On Navy

| Softball League
Opens On Monday

 

SPORT

Lt ng Have Slim Chance Ot

 

a 7 ; / City Le Ti [ loch, Sutherland; Halves, Khattar,
vy inning ague it e Team Tes cee Ct ftball oe Grant, MacDonald, C. R.; ThreeSEB on ee Os ah eee SERS quarters, Hanson, Hinchey, Manning,

of the various faculties held on Saturday it was decided to open the league
Thursday night. As there are quite
a few faculties entered, the league was
divided into twosections. The winners
of each section to meet for the championship atter Christmas.

Jim Payne who umpired so satisfactorily last year has consented to act
again this season, and ‘‘Baldy” Armstrong was appointed official scorer.
Two games will be played per evening
commencing at 7.15 on Mondays,
Thursdays and if possible on Fridays.
This will enable the league to finish
about Dec. Ist.

The opening games will be played
between Law and Freshmen at 7.15
and Medicine and Commerce at 8.15.

Prendergast; Spares, Batt, Johnson.

First and Second—Forwards, Lorway, Goodman, Silver, Wilson, Armstrong, Barnstead; Halves, Bent, Stoddard, Ted Crease; Three-quarters,
Gurdon Thompson, Doug Crease, H.
Ross, Crosbie; Spares, George Thompson, Connor.

Acadia Springs Stunning Upset By Trimming
Tigers 3-0 While Wanderers Win--Poor —
_ Exhibition Of Football

line with two nice backfield runs but
a fumble prevented a score. Conner,
whose kicking was a feature of the
match, relieved the pressure with a
penalty kick but the Axeman came
right back, and with two men bearing
down and only Oyler to beat, Potter
saved a try by tackling both of them.
Dal was forced to a touchdown. For
five minutes the Acadians tried desperately for a score. On a penalty
kick Hal Connor punted the pigskin
55 yards and Dal carried the play to
the opposite end of the field where
Oyler nearly crossed the line. The
play see-sawed back and forth until
Crosby picked up a loose ball at centre
field and broke through but lost the
golden opportunity to tally by looking
over his shoulder. Tedford dragged
him down from behind.

The Dal eleven turned out on the
Exhibition Grounds, at 2.30 p. m. Sat.,
Nov. 4 resplendent in their beautiful
black and gold, striped soccer uniforms,
full of determination to vanquish their
blue and white rivals, the R.C.N.V.R.
and to uphold the statement ot their
popular coach, Mr. Goudy. It was
quite a feat to beat the R.C. N. V. R.
who beat Dal. the previous Saturday
by a big score, but coach Goudy can
explain that. Good combination play
was impossible with the high wind and
a light ball, but the stonewall defence
of Dal in the first period won the game
for them. Great consternation was
in evidence among the Dal. team, when
the R. C. N. V. R. won the toss and
decided to defend the windward goal.
Dal was without the support of their
sub-border teammates, Miller and
Labowitz, who had lost their way
but Drover improvised as goalie until
the lost ones showed up five minutes
later.

Dal missed quite a few scoring
chances in the first period on Saturday.
The backfield were through on several
occasions but just couldn’t seem to
score. Buckley and Crosby along with
George Thompson played well in the
backfield while Bob Barnstead playing
his first senior game was the pick of the
forwards.

 

“With the sun shining and a nasty
wind blowing down the field, the Garnet and Blue Axemen pushed over a
try in the last two minutes of play
to blast the Dalhousie Tigers from

their first-place berth by a 3-0 score
at Studley last Saturday. The game
' did not produce a good brand of foot~ ball, there being many fumbles, plenty
of kicking into touch, and a whistle
every time the referee saw the ball.
The Acadia scrum ‘controlled the ball
for the better part of the game, but
the territory was fairly even. Dalhousie, after winning their first three
games, apparently decided that they
were unbeatable. They turned in a
sloppy game against the Reds a week
ago and didn’t show much intprove_ ment on Saturday. Coach McCarthy
himself says they lost the game by
hogging the ball. Jack Buckley was
- the best man on the field but he hogged

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
 
 
  

 

A great many of the Dal players
when they got the ball didn’t dig in
but kept looking about for someone
to pass to and thus lost a few ch ances
of scoring. Dal controlled the ball
in the scrum about half a dozen times
and never (forwards) seemed to be up
on the ball.

 

MONDAY—TUESDAY
Nov. 13th.-14th.

   

 

   

 

        

Law Holds Del
Team To 11-10

The Law-Freshman interfaculty footbafi game scheduled for Monday

In this ussue there appears a writeup on Hockey. There must certainly
be in Dal quite a few students interested in Hockey. If you have any criticisms or ideas of your own send them
along.

    

  
     
  

      
   

 
  
   

Acadia Gets Last Minute Score.

 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 

   
 

the ball as did Oyler, Murray, and Kirst Pesiod:
Connor. The students, however, have
no-kick because they most certainly
have not supported the team this
season, Mathematically, the Gold and
Black have a chance to play off for
the City League title but it is highly
‘improbable.
Coach Fred Kelly is to be congratulated on the improved machine that he
trotted out Saturday. Dalhousie
showed lack of teamwork, in fact many
ef the boys don’t even bother to practice. In short, with the best coaching
and the best of material, the squad
didn’t come through as expected.
Maybe they were overrated. Person_ ally, I don’t think they were. » The
stuff is there but the team. just blows
: 3 oe under pressure. ‘Bud’ Thomp, _ son, Doug Bent, Gordon Darrach, Allie
< veen, and Jack Buckley turned in.

  

Don Ross kicked off and the play
stopped on Acadia’s twenty-five yard
line where John Young, Acadia wing
three-quarter, scooped up the oval and
ran sixty yards before Jim’ Crosby
nailed him with a hard tackle. The
Dal scrum got the ball once in awhile
so the backfield pressed for a score
until in a punting duel the ball rclled
out on Dal’s 25 yard line. The
Tigers continued on the offensive while
the Wolfville collegians slowed up the
game by continually kicking. into
touch. Tedford tried a penalty kick
at the Bengals’ goal from 40 yards out,
but it was far too short. ‘‘Bud”
Thompson, receiving the ball in centre
field, carried it to Acadia’s goal line
where the Axemen touched for safety.
Receiving the drop out Potter Oyler
missed a dropped goal by inches. The

 
      
   

 
 

Although MacRae and others of the
forwards made some splendid getaways,
the ball was for the most part in Dal.
territory in this period, but the defence
was so strong that the R.C. N. V.R.
broke through only twice and each
time the ball was cleared professionally
by Miller, Dal. 0; R. C. N. V. R. 0.

         
   

   
 
    
 

    

 
 
    

         

  
       

Second Period.

      
       
   

The R. C. N. V. R.’s cleverly manouvered Dal into offsides quite often
in this period, but after a few checks
by referee Henderson Dal could not
be caught. Dal missed many chances
to score by putting the ball out of
bounds; but Cousins-Hix scored the
one and only goal of the game by a
well directed shot from a difficult

 
     
       
   

       
 
   

  
       
   
    
 
    
      
   

  

rformances but five oo play continued to teeter backand forth, | angle.
atte aloite:,. pikes iid ee Acadia missing an attempt ata dropped} The game ended Dal, A; RC. N.
ee dps oe: Te ated _ | goal, and both teams missing chances to} V. R., 0.
a tf Dal Bungles Big cites. - |score. With two mintites to play and Pincus

     
   

Miller, goal; Ball, Right, Gosse, Left
tullbacks; Squire, Right; Drover, Centre; Lebowitz, Left halfbacks; MacRae,
Right, Howse, Inside Right, Wood,
Centre, Cousins-Hix, Inside Left, Petrie, Left forwards.

a scrum five yards from the Dal goal
line, the Acadia backs received the
ball and Armstrong crossed the line.
The attempt at goal failed. From the
kick off the Bengals tried desperately
to score but the game ended with Dal
on Acadia’s 25 yard marker.

  

1.461,
Aeadia. kicked off facing the wind
and sun and immediately started to
force the play. Tedford, visiting full‘back; missed a golden opportunity
to aor when his penalty boot from
directly in front of the posts fell short.

  
   

    
      
   

 
  
     
    

 

      

 
 
 
   

  
 
      
   

Dalhousie with a nice passing play Harry Young refereed. *

carried the ball to the Acadia goal! | ine-ups: Badminton
line. A score seemed inevitable, but °

Murray failed to pass the ball to Oyler Dal—Crosby, Thompson, Buckley, No tice

 
 

Connor, Oyler, Ralston, Crease, McSween, Tanton, Goodman, Darrach,

   

who was in the clear. The local varsity took a long shot at a score when
Doug Crease tried a penalty place kick | Ross: Murray, Bent, Barnstead,

from forty~yards out nearly on the| Acadia-- Tedford, Young, Armtouch line. It was a beautiful kick, | strong, Shaw, Fountain, Ralston, Rice,
but the wind carried the ball wide. | McPherson, Sanford, Haney, Stanfield,
Acadia then ran the oval to the Dal| DeWolfe, Davis, Porter, Colpitts.

“Wolsey’’
Cardigans for Men

Each
4.25 .. 5.00

Of fine soft yarns, in
Cardigan style with two
pockets. sJust the kind
men like to wear under
their coats. In heather
mixtures and plain
shades, Sizes are small,
metlium and large.

Men’s
English
Gloves
Pair $.300

Finest quality English
cape-skin (sheepskin)...
gloves, fashioned in one
dome style with strongly
sewn out seams. Tan
shade only.

Sizes 74 to 93.
    
    

Entries for the men’s badminton
ladder tournament should be lett with
Physical Director, W. E. Stirling,
before Saturday, November 11. The
Dalhousie City League team will be
chosen from the entries in this tournament,

    
 

       

  
    

      
    

 

 

   
    

 
 
        
 

ae ee

The Dal ‘‘Cubs’” were forced to
play with fourteen men on Saturday.
Two of the players who have played
a senior game or two refused to play
and a third player didn’t show up.
The fourteen men were obtained by
conscripting a few of the boys. This
certainly isn’t the kind of spirit to be
displayed by members of a rugby
squad.

      
 

a)
Pai

      
  
  
  

    
 

   
 

   

x cf : he » a ad
an a a 3 Fi S As :
ie ;¥! rs ne a Ke 7 ee >. > — ~
Pe ae Poe eS gee he a hy + ,
SS —— ae a ome oe =
z i . ’ _— 7 Ts 7
= ’ 2 Q f Ma

   
  

va
hee
[fies

      
 

a

   
 

ee

    

a ;
ee et bs

  

“2 ‘es i
f Ae
Rey
———

   
 
 
  

  
 

  
 
  
  
   
  

*

NICKERSON & CREASE

Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

     
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  

  
  

Abeer ath

r

   
    
 

&
7

ve
ce

   

r

=. i i
ct.

  
  

     
  
 

a |
ae

IMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per lb
FLAT PIECES 7c. per Ib.

 
  
  
     
     

 
   
   
   
   
   
     

 
 
  
   

Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough
for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

L 2300
Halifax Steam Laundry

    
   
   
 
   

rth, Eaton’ Main Floor

AT. BATS N Corrs

     

       
 
   

    
  
  
  

eee LM

 

 

 

  

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS

 

Many of the boys who play Interfaculty Rugby seem to disagree with
or criticize Coach MacCarthy’s work.
‘‘Mac”’ is trying to help us and even
perhaps looking for future material.
[t is about time anyway that the rough,
wide open, etc. brand of rugby stopped.

 

. > Rieke BS
fa? See
_

At a meeting of last year’s Basket
ball teams it was decided that}Jack
Thomas be appointed coach for the
season.
ketball, having produced a team that
won the Dominion Intermediate
With a wealth of new
most of last year’s teams (Sally Sullivan included) everything looks good
for a banner season.

Jack certainly knows his bas
Title.

material and

A meeting of the softbail managers

was held on Saturday and a league
drawn up. Softball is a very popular
sport and lots of good competition
anaes be provided this year.

—
 

As no physical instructress has been

appointed yet Flo Keniston has secured
the services of some male to coach the
Girls’
is as good as mine concerning his
identity, but he was a member of last
year’s senior team, | hear.

Basketball Squad. Your guess

 

The following is supplied:
Question—Does Doug Murray play

a Ruthless game of rugby?

Answer—No, the ‘‘assist” is usually

among the spectators.

= oe § =

 

 

25c. HAIR CUT

NONE BETTER ANYWHERE
AT

BERT BOWLBY’S

First Class Barbering

447 BARRINGTON ST.
over Buckiey’s Drug

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount
Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for complete Suit or Overcoat.

       
      

**WHO’S AFRAID OF THE BIG
BAD WOLF?’”’

Hear Jerry Naugler’s better or
chestra in all thé latest hits

PHONE JERRY L9238

 

   
 

   
 
   
    
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
    

Small Musical Instruments,

Victor Records, Refrigerators
We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

Latest Magazines and Sheet
Music

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street

  
  
  

 

developed, after the failure of the
Frosh to show up, inte a Law vs. First
and Second Team affair, resulting
in a score of 11-10 in favour of the
latter. The game was played under

| the new English League rules which
occnsioned some difficulties in tight

spots of
scrum

the encountre. The Law
functioned well getting the
ball out to the backfield nearly every
time. Hinchey played a fine game on
the three-quarter line, while MacDonald made a pretty convert and Sutherland kicked a field goal. Against the
big guns of football the interfaculty
team put up a splendid showing in its
first game of the season.

--— +e

O BOOK NOW FOR
oy HOCKEY PRACTISE
GAMES

U PRIVATE
SKATING

Phone

 

 

  
 
  
   

 

PARTIES

 

-L-1640
B-7735

 

ee ——— es,

 

CHEVALIER’

mn THE WAY
TO LOVE

Sn
*THEATRE
COMING

*‘The Private Life of
King Henry VIII’’

WITH CHARLES LAUGHTON

  
   

 

 

 

GARRICK], CASINO

FRIDAY - SATURDAY

“Midnight Club”

—with—
CLIVE BROOK

GEORGE RAFT
ALISON SKIPWORTH

All Next Week

‘Tugboat Annie’

Starring

Marie DRESSLER
Wallace BEER Y

 

 

  

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C. A, Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

 
      
    

SPORTING GOODS

For Fall and Winter

Football, Badminton, Hockey,
Or ‘*What Have You?’’
We have the preferred lines of
equipment for every sport

COME AND LOOK ’EM OVER

HARDCR AGGS Ware

~ BARRINGTON at GEORGE
Telephone B-6226

SATURDAY—MONDAY
TUESDAY
November, 11-13-14

The
Solitaire

Man

—Mith—
HERBERT MARSHAL
LIONEL ATWILL
MARY BOLAND
ELIZABETH ALLAN

Halifax Transfer

PHONE B.7138

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

 

 

 
