 

| Neu SoPilicy of Initiation
Works Well In
ee | _ Practice
; “i

we 3 is not ‘the college drudge
uth as applies himself assiduously
cae , oe his studies, takes high honurs

in all his classes and never
in] s of anything: else but his

 

college

_ success of his life when he leaves
college and begins to face the
4 PP enlies which will conf ront

Fore po! ae in ‘tottra De raitae activiees _ ties and thus makes f riendships
4 i and gains experience that will
stand him in good stead in his
later years. Such was the word
OM of f riendly advice passed on to
the incoming Freshman Class
Be RY Howard Oxley, B. A., President of Sodales Debating Society
in an address on ‘Student Organizations” delivered to the
co “class last Thursday morning.
Mr. Oxley urged the members
of the class to take an active
a interest in the student urganiza_ tions on the campus and advised
them that the amount of benefit
they would derive from these
Se a organizations would be in direct
___-proportion to the amount of
effort they expended in striving
| to make these organizations a
be success.
Mr. Oxley’s address was preceded by short addresses of
welcome from Dr. Cnrleton W.
Stanley, President of the Uni- versity and from Fred Wigmure,
_ B. A., President of the Council
J of students. Dr. Stanley after
welcoming the new students
wished them every success in
their work during the coming].
college year.
Mr. Wigmore advised the students during their sojourn within the University’s walls to strive
to learn how to grapple with the
problems which would confront
them when they leave the University for the last time. He
outlined the manner in which
the Student's Council governs
the affairs of the different societies on the campus and also the
_ way it influences the college life
_ of all the students of the Univer
ase
w

 
    
    
   

| ee
Fa = ‘ed,

ity.
Ne Freshman Week Program
arranged for the incoming students officially commenced on
Wednesday morning, when the
class held an organization meeting in the Science Building.
The Class was addressed by
Prof. H. P. Bell, Honorary
President of Class °37, who
declared himself as being highly
in favour of the modified form of
initiation, which was being in_ troduced into the University this
year. He stnted that in his
opinion the purpose of a true
jnitiation was to welcome the
new students into the portals
_ of the University, to make them

(Continued on page 2.)

 

oe. Rowley: How many}!
players on the Dal Rugby Team?

Ans.: There are seven forwards; 4 three quarters=3; 3
halves 14; 1 fullback =d,
ay So there are ‘approximately 13
_ players.

 

Notice

President Stanley will
_ give a short address to
_ members of the University, in the Gymnasium,
. on Thursday, October 5,
at 12 noon. |

conics Busy Week

 

 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
    
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
   
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
   

Resigns

 

R. J. DONAHOE

 

Fraternities

Lose Strength
in U.S. College

Greek Letter Societies

 

Battle Financial
Troubles

There have been reports re
cently from some of the larger
American universities indicating
a weakening of position in the
fraternities.
these particular groups are passing into a period of difficulty
which bids fair to effect a partial
eclipse of some of their activities
and which may culminate in a

It appears that

revolution in the now prevailing
organizations of Greek letter
societies. The difficulties originate in two places, although the
cause seems to be single. The
general financial stringency of
which so much is heard operates
not only to weaken the central
organization of many of the
larger fraternities but also undermines the local chapter which
has worked itself into a position
entailing onsiderable overhead.
The local unit which has found
difficulty in contributing its quota to the budget of the national
federation is now faced with the}.
ticklish problem of keeping its
own financia! head above water.

Unquestionably these  societies on some American campusege
over-reached themselves in the
times when money was easier.
Encouraged and supported by
graduates who were doing well
by themselves in the world of
business they embarked upon
ambitious housing schemes. The
houses they built were very fine
to look upon and were no doubt
very pleasant to live in; but
they were also very expensive.
Moreover they were generally
financed upon the mortgagein stalment scheme, which added
to the considerable overhead of
a large establishment the burden
of periodical payments on building account. For a time the
plan held some elements of
feasibility. College boys were
more usually in funds then than
now. Until the competition of

|rival fraternities became severe

there were droves of recruits
who were well-upbolstered financially. And always in the background was the figure of the
benevolent alumnus who would
ever help the boys to balance

  

 

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, October 5th, 1938.

R. Donahoe, Glee

Club Head,
Resigns

It is with regret that the
Gazette announces the resignation of Bob Donahoe, president, since the last elections,
of The Glee Club. Since coming to college, Bob has been
associated with the Glee Club,
holding several executive positions and always being one of
its most enthusiastic promoters.

Pressure of studies, Bob states
has forced him to retire.

 

Dr. Hugh Bell

Is Heard By

New Students

Professor Gives Historical Sketch on
Initiation

Expressing himself as being
pleased that there will be no
more hazing at DaJhousie University, Dr. Hugh Bell, Biology
Department, spoke before members of the Freshman Class yesterday at their first business
meeting. Dr. Bell gave a brief
historical sketch of the origin of
initiation from the time of the
Greeks, and declared that its
adoption by Americans had tended to degrade the custom. § It
was decided by the Freshmen
that they would postpone the
election of officers for a month
and they appointed a committee
to carry on in the meantime.
Other speakers were: George
Thompson, freshman representative; Charles Lorway. Sydney,
who spoke on athletics; George
Murphy, Halifax.

Members of the working committee of the class appointed
were: Alex. McPherson. Glace
Bay; Donald Robb. China; Allister Morrison Regina; Elizabeth
Miller New Glasgow; Constance
Mackie Sydney; Henry Ross.
Gordon Thompson, Leo Simmons, Scot Montgomery, Mary
Watson, and Margaret Saunders,
all of Halifax.

the budget. But now recruiting
is a more difficult matter, for
there are fewer freshmen and
they bring less money with them.
The benevolence of the alumnus,
who has fallen upon stormy
days, is of dubious assistance.
A situation which four years ago
was becoming awkward on the
single score of the over-doing
of fraternity organization has
now become acute because of
its high cost.

Although the difficulties which
beset it are primarily attributable to the fraternity’s assumption of the financial burden of an
expensive fixed plant it is probable that other causes contribute to the present trend of
decadence. In the days of their
greater prosperity there were
always voices which condemned
the fraternity. In their present
situation these alleged faults of
the fraternity will be thrown
into bold relief. It is quite
possible then that this disclosure
of weaknesses coupled with reorganization on a sound financial
basis will bring forth the institution of the fraternity as an altered and somewhat improved article.

Registration Dal Glee Club Opens Season
With Frosh Show at Gym

Shows Drop
At Dalhousie

Total Enrolment Will

Be Below Figures For
Last Year

Continuing the trend of the
past two years the total registration in the University this
season is slightly lower than it
was last year according to present indications. Although the
registration of students had not
been completed at the time of
going to press indications point
to the fact that the total registration figures for this season
will show that about 870 students are registered at the University, as compared with 936

students last season, a decrease

of over 60.

The decrease this season will
not be as great as the decrease
was last year, there being 1015
students registered at the University during the 1931-32 season, making a decrease in registrntion last year of 79 students.
The decrease during the past
two years can probably be attributed principally to the depressed financial conditions in
the Maritime Provinces since
1929. The figure of 1015 students in 1931-32 was an all time
record for registration in the
University and probably will
not be duplicated for some years
to come. Dalhousie still. has
the largest registration of any
University in the Maritime Provinces, the registration of other
Maritime Universities having
fallen off even more than that
of Dalhousie due to financial
conditions in these Provinces
by the Sea.

This decrease is even more
noticeable in the Arts and
Science Faculty due to the grea
increase in registration in the
professional schools this season.
Due to the great influx in students to the schools at Forrest
Hall, principally from the United
States there was an increase
in registration there this season
of over twenty per cent and the
professional schools have one of
the largest registrations this year
they have ever had in their
history. Especially in the Faculties of Dentistry and Medicine
was the increase large,. being
principally American students.

On the other hand the decrease
at the Studley Campus is very
noticeable the classes in most
cases being much smaller than
last season. The greatest decrease is perhaps in the Faculties
of Commerce and Engineering,
in which the attendance has
falfen off greatly. The number
of new students entering Commerce is 12 at the present time
as compared with 38 new students last season, which was the
largest number of new students
the Faculty has acquired since
its inception. In the Faculty of
Engineering the number of new
students this year is only 8
representing a great decrease
over previous seasons.

The Freshman Class entering
the University is the smallest
that has come to Dalhousie in
the last five years, the total
registration being slightly over
one hundred. The cause of this
decrease in registration, while
principally attributable to depressed financial conditions, can
probably be partly blamed on
the increase in fees at the University, and the raising of the
standards in the entrance examinations at the University
during the past two years.

 

Conducts Program

 

GEO. THOMPSON

 

Noted Visitor
Will Lecture
In Halifax

Prof. A. E. Zimmert:
Oxford, To Speak
At Dal Gym

The local Committee of the
National Council of Education
have kindly consented that their
first speaker of the year, Professor A. E. Zimmern, of Oxford
University, shall give his series
of lectures in the University
gymnasium.

The series of lectures is as
follows:

Pre-War
Methods.

Post War Conditions.

The European Problem.

Extra-European Problems.

The Economic Problem.

The Collective System.

They will be given at 8 o’clock
on the evening of Friday, October 6, and on the following evenings—Sunday excepted—October 7, 9, 10,11, 12.

Professor Zimmern is wellknown as an author and teacher,
and also for his great influence
in the League of Nations. He
may be described without exaggeration as one of the profoundest, and at the same time
one of the clearest, political
thinkers of our time. The Uni
Conditions and

versity is indeed fortunate to
be able to listen to Professor
Zimmern.

Prof. Zimmern is Professor of
International Relations at Oxford. He is a recognized authority on International Relatons and on the British Commonwealth of Nations. He
comes to Halifax under the
auspices of the National Council
of Education and he has kindly
consented to address the Institute
of International Affairs. Prof.
Zimmern is one of the founders
of Chatham House.

Prof. Zimmern will deliver
a series of six lectures at Dalhousie University in the Gymnasium under the auspices of
the Nationa! Council of Education at 8 p. m. on the dates
specified below:

6 Pre-War  Condutvions
and Methods:
Naval Supremacy—
“The Old Diplomacy”’.
The Concert of Europe
and its disintegration.

Oct.

 
 
  

‘| dance.

     

7 a F 7 i
a. ee
' Ne we: rr ee é oe
\
No. 2

 

Sing- Song ane and Stage
Show Please New

Students

In an endeavour to give the
freshmen a practical example of
what it does and can do, the
Glee Club opened its season last
Friday night at the gym with
a number of song features, a
skit, and the usual after-show

 

The society was handicapped
by a shortage of players, many
of the members not having
arrived yet, and by lack of time
for practice. On the whole, considering the difficulties it worked
under, the Club put on a good
night’s amusement. For the
benefit of our freshmen readers
however, it may be pointed out
that all the shows are not of
such a “‘sing-song”’ variety.

Characteristic of first nights,
the program opened with a few
Dal yellsand songs. Mr. Morty
Goldberg then sang ‘“‘Learn to
Croon”’ and an encore. Messrs.
Doug Murray and George Murray put on an amusing banjo
and piano duet, with Doug
singing some of his favourites.
They were followed by Miss
Ruth Crandall, who showed the
freshmen the proper technique
for singing “I gotta sing a Torch
Song” and “The Blue Prelude.”
She was particularly well received. Bob Weitz, singing “‘Lazy
Bones” as he alone can sing it,
was Called back to sing ‘“Marjy.”’

A a conculding number, the
Club presented the musical skit,

“Three Little Maidens,’ with
Messrs. Doug Murray, Eric
Found, and Fred Whitehead.
[t was a repeat performance from
one of last year’s shows, but the
audience seemed to enjoy it.
Doug’s legs drew more than one
comment from the freshettes.

The evening’s entertainment
will be the 'ast produced under
Bob Donahoe’s presidency. As
explained elsewhere, he has decided to resign, and someone
else will have to be elected to
succeed him. It is io be hoped
the Club will not lose his services entirely and that he will
be seen occasionally on the
stage. His last official act, in
getting the society away to a
flying start, is a commendable
example to the heads of the
other societies on the campus.

 

Is Appointed
Assistant

Prof.

H.. J. Bean? B.A, and Be
Com., it is understood, is being
appointed an assistant professor
of commerce at Dalhousie University. Upon graduating from
Dalhousie in 1933 with great
distinction, Mr. Egan received
the degrees of Bachelor of Arts
and Bachelor of Commerce, the
only occasion when those two
degrees were ever given together.
He had an exceptionally brilliant
career in colJege, and has also
had considerable experience in
practical accounting. Mr. Egan
last term was co-Editor of the
Dalhousie Gazette.

Notice

There will be a meeting of the
Delta Gamma Society, Wednesday night at Shirreff Hall.

Time—8 p. m._ All freshettes
must attend. ;

 
im led 1869, “The Oldest College Paper in America”

ss EDITORIAL STAFF.

~ _ Editors.
: W. H. JOST, B. A.
| B. 2548,

Associates, |
FRANK GOUDGE.
JAMES MACKINTOSH.

NEWS DEPARTMENT. ,
HARRY SUTHERLAND.
B. 5487.

cos Associates.

3, Ee eA
ERL = PURTILL, B. 2148.

a, ie

MARY SIMMONDS
SPORTS :
D. W. CAMERON ALEX NICKERSON

gas |S
a

TED CREASE B. 5737

i ___ BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.

bi os

Assistant Manager.
HOWARD C. OXLEY, B. A.
B. 2543.

KING’S PRIVILEGES AT DAL.

The Gazette prints elsewhere in this issue the agreement
pween the Students Councils of Dalhousie and King’s regarding
: use of Dalhousie facilities by King’s students. In past years
it was not generally known that our sister college paid the Council
of the Students for the use of the gymnasium and football field,
~ and sometimes misunderstandings arose, some Dalhousie students
believing that King’s students were not entitled to these privileges,
and many King’s students, not knowing the true circumstances,
abstained from taking full advantage of the facilities at Dalhousie
- which had been paid for. For instance, there are many Dal and
King’s students who do not know that King's students are entitled
to receive a Gazette free of charge, or that badminton facilities at
_ the Dalhousie gymnasium are at the disposal of King’smen.
- To clear up these existing misunderstandings, therefore, the agree
ment mentioned above is reprinted in this issue of the Gazette.

THE STUDENTS’ PAPER.

___ It cannot be stressed too strongly, as was pointed out in last
week's editorial columns, that the Gazette is primarily the students’
paper, and that contributions will be welcomed by the Editors,
whether by way of correspondence, articles, or humor. The con- tributions need not be signed, and if signed, the name of the author
- will be kept in confidence. There is probably frequent outspoken
st crit} 3

re
Ns

whe
= A

ticism of affairs as they are carried out at Dalhousie, and of the
nner in which the Gazette is conducted. There may be comendation in some quarters, on the other hand. The free use
the Gazette columns is at the disposal of the students who wish
to air their views. Within the next few days the Gazette box
_ which fell into disuse at the Library building will be re-instituted
Peon? thie Arts building, and such contributors may drop their effusions
into it, or else mail them in to the Editorial offices at the Murray
Mid domestead, Studley.
cee ee
3 PRESIDENT STANLEY’S REPORT.

PaaS y,.
rg = i,
phe Bh

aa

a os
eee.

*~

~
a

A perusal of the annual report of President Stanley affords
- some interesting reading. Last year, it will be remembered,
President Stanley expressed the opinion that too many dances
_ were held at Dalhousie, and that many Dalhousie students passed

~ too mttch of their time in social activities. The following excerpt
fron: the President's annual report, apropos of the above, sums
up his views on the subject:
_ “Viewed from the outside, and especially through the columns
ke be" the newspapers, it is another sort of activity in our midst that
Bo strikes the eye and commands attention: the frivolities, the hazing,
| and in particular the frequent dances. I am convinced that
_ about a third of our students go to no dances whatever, and that
_ the majority of them do not attend too many. It is the minority
of our male students who can afford to go to dances, but unfor— tunately it is they who give the University its character in the
minds of newspaper readers. It is almost the same with our
romen students. A certain difference arises from the lamentable
st that a few parents are possessed of the notion that Dalhousie

__ University and Shirreff Hall exist in order that their daughters
: may acquire the social graces, and are actually pleased to hear
| that they have attended several dances a week. A very few stu_ dents of this kind are a demoralizing force. Imbued, before they

enter it, with the notion that a college residence is a place of amuse
ment, they are not easily amenable to other suggestions afterwards.
But, aside from the disruption of college studies, it is a mistake
ppose that college is the place, or the average age of our stuthe right age, to acquire adult drawing room manners. Every
enced teacher knows that arduous mental discipline and
uent distractions, of whatever kind, are incompatible. Taken
ther they make an intolerable physical strain.........I have
wn many who have broken under the strain of mental work
nbined with physical toil, but many again who have come

Ot ss through it. But the other combination, mental toil and

dissipation, I have never known any young person to survive.
ly, of course, those who attempt it say an early farewell to the
student. Again, something of the excitement of life might
defe until the student has graduated. No specimen]
is more melancholy to behold than the simple
yorn, sophisticated, blasee, with no zest for simple
| tlook save that of a jaded cynic.”’
5, it may be said, but undoubtedly true in too
nm were dancing and all social pleasures
ines and realm of Dalhousie, these so-called
ts would not refrain from seeking their
The solution is not that easy. The
des the place, among many, many
nm and social dissipation,—not the

; not difficult to lay down a norm of
| : adhered to, but to have human nature
hat norm is another thing. ~However, the words of

y are timely, and wil give

i.
”

‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Exchanges

CAUTION.

Caution is a valuable quality
of character, but it is possible to
over-develop it to such a degree
that it becomes a handicap and
discourage efforts. Itisa pretty
safe wager that the human, who
boasts that he has never made a
mistake, never took a chance—
and the man who never took a
chance never accomplished very
much.

Success seems to attend conscientious endeavour. The ultra-conservative person stands
still. His motto may be “Safety
First’? but he may slip on a
banana peel and_ kill himself.
He may have. his first dollar,
but he hasn’t added anything to
it.

Every one is entitled to make
a mistake—now and then. The
world does not hold it against
one who has tried valiantly.
Standing in one’s tracks may
lead to safety, but consider how
slowly you go.

Ask the man who has done
things in the world and he will
frankly admit that he has made
mistakes. He will likely add
that he used the bricks he
stumbled over to lay a solid
foundation for his later success.

The best system is to do
your best according to your
knowledge and ability, then if
you take a tumble, look around
and find out what tripped you
up. Then use this stumbling
block as a stepping stone.

Recklessness does not pay.
A careful examination before
the leap assures an adequate
pay-off. Yet it is obvious that
as long as you are haunted by
the fear of skidding and lend
an ear to over-caution, you will
continue to creep along in the
old rut.—Queens Journal.

MAN MASTERS 140 LANGUAGES.

Dr. Tassilo Schulthesis of the
University of Pennsylvania undoubtedly holds the world’s record for the number of languages
one person can read, write, speak
and understand.

He has mastered 140 languages
which is believed to be all the
languages there are in the world.

He speaks perfectly ten Germanic, eleven Roman, fourteen
Slavonic, twelve East-Indogermanic, four West-Indogermanic,
eleven Finnish-Urgian, fourteen
Asiatic, fifteen Indian, fourteen
Semetic, eighteen African, six
South Sea Island and four American languages.

Moreover, he knows all the
artificial languages, of which
Esperanto is the best known.
Says he:

‘My purpose in learning all
these languages was to get at
the root of the origin of the
world’s tongue. I believe every
nation’s language to be the most.
reliable guage of its civilization.”’
— McGill Daily.

YOUTH.

One of the most heartening
features of the present unhappy
social conditions is the reaction
to it which youth is making.
The young people of today are
meeting a serious situation with
a sanity which is as cheering as
it is unexpected. Some years
ago, while prosperity still lingered with us, there seemed an
indication that the present growing generation was being governed entirely by false values. The
general opinion was they were a
pleasure-loving, low and immoral lot, recklessly spending
their decreasing energies.

We, with others, have been
forced to revise our opinion.
The University student of today
is meeting his or her problems
with unequivocation, instead of
being dismayed or demoralized
or recrimminating or lethargic;
they have summoned initiative
and energy as if determined to
make the most of a bad bargain

We submit that the much
maligned ‘“‘young generation’’
will bear their share and more in
discovering the way out of the
depression. —The Sheaf.

~~

Seve oa

Text of Agreement Between
Dal and King’s Councils

The following is the text of the
agreement regarding the use of the
Dalhousie field, gymnasium, and other
facilities, by King’s students, adopted
in 1930, and amended last spring at a
meeting of the representatives of the
Council of the Students of Dalhousie
University and the Students Council
of King’s College:

Report of the Board of Arbitration
on Dispute between the Council of the Students of Dalhousie
University and the Students’
Council of the University of

King’s College.

I. Contribution by, or on behalf
of, the Student Body of the University
of King’s College.

Pursuant to the agreement between
duly authorized representatives of the
both parties to the dispute, it is adjudged that there shall be paid to
the secretary-treasurer of the Council
of the Students of Dalhousie University annually and before the first of
November in each year the sum following, that is to say:

(a) If, in any one year, the total
number of students attending the
University of King’s College is seventyfive or under, the annual payment
shall be $200.00.

(b) If in any one year, the total
number of students attending the
University of King’s College is more
than seventy-five, and not more than
one hundred, the annual payment shall
be $250.00.

(c) If in any one year, the total
number of students attending the
University of King’s College is more
than one hundred, then the annual
payment shall be calculated on the
basis of $3.50 for each and every student attending the University of King’s
College.

II. Use of the football field by
the Students of the University of
King’s College for football practice
or games.

At a meeting of the Committee of
Nine of Dalhousie, a resolution of the
Senate of Dalhousie University dated
May 18, 1925, which reads: No athletic contest shall take place between
the hours of 9.00 a. m.-l p. m. on
Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays
and Saturdays; between the hours of
9 a. m.-12 noon on Tuesdays and
Thursdays; nor between 2.30 p. m.5.30 p. m. on any day except Saturday
was amended by adding ‘“‘This regulation is not intended to prevent practice, but only such use of the field as
would lead to noise or other disturbance of class work of the University.”

It is adjudged that the students of
the University of King’s College be
permitted to use the footbali field for
football practice of one hour and one
half hour duration, at such periods as
the Students’ Council of the University of King’s College desire, on every
day of the week except Saturday or
Sunday,’’ but these practice periods
are not to conflict or interfere with the
periods which may be assigned for the
practice of the first football team of
Dalhousie University.

It is adjudged that the students of
the University of King’s College be
permitted to use the football field on
any Saturday afternoon for any football contests which the students of
the University of King’s College may
engage in with any team representing
any other club, college or university,

Organization of

Continued from page 1

feel at home in their new surroundings, and to help them to
get the right kind of start in
their new work.

George C. Thompson, Freshman Representative, and _ to
whom much of the success of
the Freshman Week Program
can be attributed then addressed
the clnss briefly and told them
that it had been decided to
defer the election of the officers
of the Class for a month, in
order that the members might
be sure they were electing the
most capable officers to control
the class affairs. A committee
composed of eight boys and four
girls was then elected to carry
on the business of the class for
the next month. It is composed as follows: Mary Watson
Constance MacKie, Peggy Saunders, Betty Miller, Henry Ross,
Gordon Thompson, Leo SimSimmonds, Sandy MacPherson,
Scotty Montgomery, Donald
Robb, G. MacDonald, and A.
Morrison.

George Murphy, Chairman of
the Sophomore Class Initiation
Committee then outlined to the
class briefly the rules which
they would be asked to comply
with during the two weeks initiation period, which lasts from
October 2nd. to the 14th. and
asked the class to give the
Sophomore Class their cooperation in the carrying out of this
program.

= a ae news

saving and excepting such Saturday
afternoons as may be required by
the Council of the Students’ of Dalhousie University for a game or practice of the first team of Dalhousie
Universit y.

Ill. Use of the Gymnasium by
the Students of the University of
King’s College for basketball practice and games use of the gymnasium equipment by the students
of the University of King’s College.

It is recommended that the male
students of the University of King’s
College, be allotted one hour every
week during any session of the University of King’s College for basketball
practice and for games with any team
entered in any league of which the
University of King’s College is a
member,

It is adjudged that any student of
the University of King’s College is
entitled to be in the gymnasium at
any time, is also entitled to the use
of the equipment in the gymnasium
at such time.

It is adjudged that King’s students
are entitled to the use of the badminton
equipment at Dalhousie,

IV. Participation of the students of the University of King’s
College in Activities under the
jurisdiction of the Council of the
Students of Dalhousie University.

Subject to the foregoing paragraphs

of this report it is adjudged that no
student of the University of King’s
College shall be entitled, without the
consent of the Students’ Council of the
University of King’s College to play on
or compete for any first team of Dalhousie University or to take part or
participate in any activity carried on
by or through the instrumentality of
Sodales. The Council of the Students
of Dalhousie University shall not be
responsible in any way for the enforcement of the provisions contained in
this paragraph.
_ Subject to the foregoing paragraph,
it is adjudged that the students of the
University of King’s College shall be
entitled to receive the Dalhousie Gazette
and to take part or participate in any
of the activities which come under
the jurisdiction of the Council of the
Students of Dalhousie University,

V. It is adjudged that no student
of the University of King’s College
shall be entitled to vote, or be a can
didate, in any election of representatives to the Council of the Students of
Dalhousie University, or hold office
or vote in any society under the jurisdiction of the Council of the Student
of Dalhousie University.

With consent of King’s Council,
King’s students may act on editorial
staff of Gazette or Year Book in any
capacity other than Editor-in-Chief
or Managing Editor.

October 5th,¥1933

The Knocker’s |

Corner

Oscar Wilde has said that
when in love one begins by
deceiving oneself and ends by
deceiving others. This is true
also of college life. As freshmen cast respectful glances at
the upperclassmen, they wonder how such little heads can
carry all they know, certainly
after several years at a university with every facility for study,
they must have learned a great
deal. What an illusion! These
alleged superiors have the same
amusements, the same_ ideas,
and the same prejudices as when
they entered college. They
have the same worship of the
idols of the hour, they read
advertisements and newspapers
with the same gullible credulity,
yet they pose as being sophisticated and cultured. Nor are
the professors themselves above
suspicion, for they repeat the
same tedious orthodoxies year
after year and with the same
lack of effect. Freshmen have
been advised to respect their
elders and follow in the virtue
and admonition of their predecessors, on the contrary let
them reflect for themselves on
the possibility of changing, as
well as criticising, the accepted
modes of thought at Dalhousie.

Everything goeth, everything returneth,
Eternally rooleth the wheel of
existence,—

and still no change in the registration system. Admittedly, it
only happens once a year, but
even then, why the University
authorities should expect the
students to stand in line for the
privilege of laying down hardearned cash is a puzzle to most
of them. While few of the
Arts and Science students waited
more than an hour on the average, most of the professional
men lolled about for two or
three hours between the filling
out of their cards and finally
paying Miss Harris. With all
the girls in the office, surely it
is possible to have a second or
third cashier and thus speed up
this unpleasant business.

Style News From The Students’ Shop.

see the new fall hats - - 
They’re being worn darker this season—

The newest shades are Oxford Grey—Cam
bridge Green—Nubian Brown and Maltese

Blue—

The shapes are small and correctly styled

for the college man—

Prices from $3.00 to $5.00

All sizes and colors in NU-FELTS

The water proof huss 1 .50

Shane’s Mens Wear

30 Spring Shop Garden Road

 
   

’ sa a fy y*
ye -= ’ me
oe < Le Se oo, . ;
rt Md Pat ee e See

 
  

= ~

~ ||Girls Director

 

 

  
         

- college period has
The Campus is once
e scene of a aa
dwigor of youth. There
ny new faces this year

  
  

1e same old physogs
seen anytime. I have
sked my opinion of the
es and I think the logical
is maybe they are better
ear and Prince Ednd seems to be growing
x besides potatoes. Ted
an back me up in this
sion because he had already
one up for the next six

+

 
       
    
 
   
     
   
    
     

eae a >" ‘ 4
‘The boys are finding plenty
a Sy ee and each ~ is

g his experiences during
er. George Smith had
a wonderful operation and he

ist loves to tell you about it.
The cut has nine stitches south
and then a sharp turn to the
right with seven more.
ee
ee 2 |
~ The Dalhousie football team
is coming along fine with Coach
McCarthy at the helm. There
have been, on the average, about
forty players turning out for
_ practice regularly and everything points to a swell football
season. Remember freshmen,
cially, if you can’t play foot
   
    
  
    
 
  
      
  
   
    
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

~ ball support your team by your

“presence at the games. The
ers are going to Acadia Satur7 and everybody must try
d be there and help lead the
m to victory. ,

r If there is anyng you would like to know
ase drop us a line and we
be glad to help you.

1) It is customary for freshn or freshettes to walk on the
ewalk. A young miss who
sists in walking in the gutter
nore apt to lose than to make
_ (2) Freshettes walking alone
at night should not speak to
reshmen unless they have been
viously introduced or are out
ork with winter coming on.
3) It is not correct for young
ple to push older ladies in
t of swiftly approaching vees Or motor Cars.

4) The correct costume for
shmen walking around the
npus either before or after
kk consists of shoes, socks,
jergarments, trousers, shirts,
kties, collar, vest coat and
. For the opposite sex the
tume is practically the same
h the exception of socks
users, shirt, necktie, collar,
cest, and coat. However, many
“women now affect ““knickerbock
  

  

  
  
 
   
  
   

 

  

  

  


  

ers’ and vice versa.

a
Rit 5) A freshman if escorting a

  

  

t ialf choutd walk on the outside,
especially if they are both in
, evening dress and have a long
ig distance to go. It is never incorrect to suggest the use of a
street car, or as one gets near the
(6) A young freshie walking
__ -with a young lady, when accosta by a hobo, always gives him
ng the young

 
 
  

ing, unless
his wife or sister.

/hen calling the Hal) and

; name happens to be

gee ce Neabet or Cee

| feel rather shy about

ring B9745 or 6

't worry the phone

y or the girls are

faut a

  

  
   
  
    
   

ot

  
       
    
    
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  

students, but on the!

oung lady on foot to a formal]

acquisitions than valor, and sluth

|] MacLeod, Balcom,

   
 
 

od Is Appointed

athletic association, has been
appointed as part time physical
director in the place of Miss
Harris, who has held it as a full
time job for the past three years.

more as an adviser to the freshettes than anything else and as
Barbara is in her senior year it
is all she would have time for;
however it means that the girls
will have no adequate coaching
in their various sports this winter
and will also mean a greater
decline than ever in these activities.

Why cannot the girls have a
physical director as in previous
years?

 

Delta Gamma

Will Meet on
Wednesday

Freshettes Will Be
Initiated at Shireff
Hall

The Delta Gamma Society will
open its activities for this year
with a meeting to be held at
Shirreff Hall on Wednesday
night when the Freshettes will
be initiated.

This society was first started
in 1899 for the purpose of bringing the girls together and to try
and stimulate an interest in
literature and debating and within the last few years, D. G. A.C.
became a part of the organization.

The first vice president for
this year is Ruth Crandall, who
in this position is head of the
Girls’ Debating and hopes to
encourage both the new and the
old members to take part in the
debates which will be held from
time to time at both Shirreff
Hall and Kings.

The second vice president,
Barbara Walker, is also president
of the D. G. A. C. and under her
management interfaculty sport
for the girls is to be revived.

The meetings are an ideal
way to bring the city and the
Hall girls together and it is hoped that as many as possible will
attend. Notices will be posted
two or three days ahead in
several notice boards.

Om

QUEEN’S MEDS. FINED FOR
SECRET HAZING.

 
 

   

As a result of participation in
secret initiation ceremonies, 62
second year medical students
were fined $2.00, and forced to
post a bond of $8.00 for the
rest of the term. As a further
penalty, they are forbidden to
hold any dances this year.

Medical freshmen, it is alleged,
were forced to walk through molasses barefoot, then through
grain, and then told to put their
bootson. They were also shampooed with rotten tomatoes and
bad eggs.—McLill Daily.

et

Mimicry, which is the common
and favorite amusement of little,
low minds, is the utmost contempt with great ones. It is
the lowest and most illiberal of
all buffoonery —Chesterfield.

  
 
 
 

   

Diligence makes mure lasting

has ruined more nations than
the sword.— Steele.

 

Limited

-DRUGGIST

 

AX and BEDFO

 

- Miss Baibara Walker, this
jyear’s president of the girls’

Her position seems to be}

     
   
      
   
 
   

       
    
      
       
    
       
          
      

  
 
     
 
         
  
  

iety
Oct. 5th. The Executive asks
for a full attendance and would
especially
members the advisability of attending to see to the protection
of their own interests.

     
     
     
     
     

  

CO-FC. Notice

C.O. T. C. Smoker, Wednesday Night, 7.45 p. m.,
in the Munroe Room of
the Forrest Bldg. Freshmen especially welcome.
Refreshments served. All
free of charge.

Law Society
Holds Session

es

Committees Appointed
For Year

The first meeting of the Law
Society in the current term was
noteworthy for its comparative
calm and the smooth passage of
several matters of business.
President Jack Miller, occupying the Chair for the first time,
presided with befitting dignity
over an assembly which presented him with very few piroceduial
difficulties. Mr. Secretary MacDonald read the financial report
of the preceding year to a
society well contented with the
manner in which it had weathered the storms of world-wide
depression.

After a slight complication
over one resignation, the Second
Year brought in a slate for the
Moot Court Committee comprising the names of Messrs.
Oxley, Miller and Lorway. It
was suggested in meeting that
sittings of the Court be commenced at an early date as a
heavy docket of appeal cases is
expected.

There was a considerable discussion over the matter of a
committee to take charge of
the Society entertainments. A
divided meeting finally decided
to constitute one committee to
take charge of both the Law
Dance and any banquets it may
be decided to have during the
year. Herbie Grant,’ celebrated
member of Third Year, was appointed to the chairmanship of
this important body. Second
year will be represented by Len
Hawco and the First Year by
Miss Purtill. The committee
Was enjoined to embark upon
its numerous duties without delay, Chairman Grant promising
that prompt service would be
the guiding star of the committee
efforts.

It was further decided to continue the scheme of financing in
vogue during the last two years.
A committee consisting of the
executive members of the senior
years and one member to be appointed by First Year was con
stituted a collection agency to
attend to matters of revenue.

Mr. J. Louis Dubinsky, Sultan

-in-Chief of the poorly ventilated
Law Library, favoured the members present with a dissertation
on the manner in which they
should conduct themselves while
looking over the numerous volumes there to be found.

A second meeting of the Socis called for Thursday

impress upon new

        
   
  

   
  
 

Announcing - - 
the opening of a new and different luncheonette, catering particularly to Dalhousie students.
Located at

160 Spring Garden Road

To be known as the

Garden Sweets
and
Luncheonette

Just around the corner from
the Forrest Building. We are
here to serve you better.

          
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 

        
 
 
   
  
  
  

   

       
   
   
   
      
  
 

 

  

 

scholars

perfectly satisfied that they had
absorbed everything worthwhile
as far as culture was concerned.

But today our knowledge is
vast. Huge libraries contain
myriads of books on a wide
range of subjects. So complex
has this knowledge become that
students must devote their lives
to one branch of study only if
they wish to attain proficiency
in that study.

Nevertheless college students
are still required to work at
several unrelated subjects lately
there has been a tendency to
reduce this number, thus permitting the upper classmen to
devote more time to the subjects in which they are more
interested. Yet there is a definite course set for beginners in
which they must become proficient if they are to remain in
college long enough to specialize.

The freshman or freshette is
likely to face such a course
with indifference. This procedure often produces discouraging
results. The freshman wishes
to concentrate on one subject
or group of subjects. wherein
lies his interest and enthusiasm
at the start. But what happens? He is informed that to
prepare himself he must master
much irrelevant material. Often he loses interest, fails and
leaves college without having a
good chance to show his ability
in his chosen work. We make
the error of supposing that a
man proficient in one line of
endeavour should be equally as
clever in other branches of study.
The old “transfer of learning’
theory is fast loosing favor among modern psychologists.

The reason given for requiring
proficiency in many subjects is
that a general education may
not be sacrificed in favor of
Narrow specialization. But
should not this broad education
be received in the High Schools.
If the schools graduate persons
who are not prepared to undertake a definite life work, well
some reform is necessary. In
our modern world honor goes to
the individual who can do one
thing better than his fellows.
There is no place for the dabbler
who knows a little about everything and not a great deal about
anything.

There is some provision made
for specialization in post-graduate courses, but in this case
the threat of economic insecur
ity hangs over everybody and

the bewildered college graduate

may find himself wondering how
to earn a living in a higher
specialized and competitive order.

 

  

Ice Cream

and Drinks

MEALS and DAINTY AFTERNOON and EVENING
LUNCHES

**50 employe?s at your service”’
Pp

THE y
Green Lantern

      
         
   

BIRK

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so

desired.
Birks have specialized for
years and now supply prac
tically all the schools end colleges in the Proyince.}

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

Specialization

Long ago when the sum of
human knowledge was small,
attended centers of
learning, perused the few publications available and came away

  

 

 

 

 

Page Three

Gazette Meeting
Called For Today

A meeting of the Gazette staff will be held today at noon at the Gazette office in the Murray
Homestead. A full attendance is requested by
the Editors.

iP deatins Are

Requested to
Send {In I News

Should Co-operate
With Gazette Staff

U. K. C. Notes All organizations and societies

at Dalhousie are requested to
co-operate with the Gazette staff
in the preparation of weekly
notices of coming events for the
Gazette calendar. Notices may
be mailed or left with any member of the staff, and should be in
the hands of the Editors no later
than Saturday morning of each
week for insertion in the following Wednesday’s Gazette.

The use of the Gazette columns is also at the disposal of
all student organizations for the
purpose of reporting meetings
and happenings. Owing to the
difficulty of covering the activities of these organizations,’ the
Editors urge that the organiza tions themselves appoint a representative to write up their
activities and forward their stories to the Gazette office, Murray
Homestead. It is in the interest
of the societies themselves that
such action should be taken to
assure them publicity in the
Gazette.

Sorority Will Go

International

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

 

A slight increase in registration at King’s has been recorded,
about ninety students having
enrolled with the Bursar. This
year's Freshman class is the
highest in some years, being near
the thirty mark. In the girls’
residence, the number registering also show an increase over
last year.

The new King’s football field,
started late last summer, was
completed some weeks ago, but
recent seeding will prevent the
students from taking advantage
of the field this fall. In the
meantime the King’s football
squad is working out at the
regular hours at the Dalhousie
field.

Improvements carried out at
the King’s grounds during the
pnst summer give the quad an
attractive appearance. Work
has also been done on the buildings and a new chapel bell has
been installed at the main building.

 

The first social event of the
year will be staged at King’s
next week,’ when the FreshieSoph dance will be held. Preparations are now going forward
for the affair, which is expected
to be the usual successful and
enjoyable King’s function.

a ——

It is rumoured that the Kappa
Beta Phi Sorority, Ruth Crandall, President, has been accepted by the international women’s
fraternity, Delta Gamma, and
will have their final ceremonies
some time this term. The date
has not been definitely settled as
yet. é'

 

Football, hockey, and basketball teams at King’s will suffer
this year from the absence of
Harvey Cole, B. A., who graduated last spring. Cole, who

STUDENT’S CALENDAR.

September

: Registration
October...

..... Determination

was an outstanding star in these November .... Procrastination
Hives major s are is this ear peceinber SEeiae
Oe hiss tudies at London 1pRUaTy Begenetation
TPiiveens 8 February Procrastination
Jniversity. M: 5. eS
arch Intimidation
April Terrorisation
= .
a NTC tan aie May Desolation

.... Jubilation
—The Varsity.
-————_}---o—_—____..

LEAVES FOR ACADIA.

Faith Hunter, for the last two
years a student at Dalhousie,
left on Saturday morning for
Acadia where she will complete
her course.

An honest politician is one
who when he is bought will stay
bought.—Simon Cameron, Republican boss of Pennsylvania,

1857-77.

 

DON’T LET YOUR WARDROBE LET YOU DOWN

Suits and Coats that will lead the style parade this
season are here for your inspection— Quality furnishing
for particular men at reasonable prices. When you want
men’s furnishings that have the quality of feeling and
looking right, visit the store with a host of friends.

SS H ks OF GRANVILLE

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
sevice Bu 376

Service
25c. Rate to Students

 

 

 

—_—
     

 
    

GAUVIN

AND

GENTZEL

Photographers to

   

  
  
   
 
   
  

   

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS

perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed .45
Called for and delivered
Telephone Lorne 2323 ,

Cousins’ Limited

Dry Cleaners —Dyers —Tailors
‘“* None better—anywhere’’

 
   
 

Dalhousie University

  
 

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing Service

See Our Pictorial Work
For Gifts

  

 
    

G. A. McDonald

Tobacconist

 
     
  

Complete Range of Pipes

25c. to $7.00
21 Spring Garden Road

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B.6992.

    

 

 

 
Re he ee
ae ’ K PP 3 rN mph | e "2 ~ vp i We he ie
ee Se AS et! po me '

2 ad =

- & You

 

  

 

    
 

Sons ; c y = ae DALHOUSIE GAZETTE October 5th. 1938 7
:: DAL TIGERS TO PLAY AT ACADIA SATURDAY =: —
First Game Of League To |School Meet Is Ross Stars In
“Be Staged'At Wolfville | Staged On | ¥S?Y Football | Track Meet at

  

 

  
 
  
 
 
   
    
   
   
  

~~
ooo ; Dalhousie Tigers will Dal Grounds John McCarthy Dal Grounds
TENNIS NOTES Battle Acadia Rugby eee |
< ty thud p aw ° i c ; > ins ralit ree Vels a Ta .
Rea Team Saturday Halifax Academy | Ti ts bs beer sted by, the| the instrumentality of the ee ae |

Wi ty . |contribute some articles on the subject | tries at first would not adopt it, but , e
ins Maritime Inter of ‘Rugby Football” and while it}in a few years it became universal. Foymer Interscholastic

 

r
rs x
age ey, >
" —
a aly

 

  
  
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
     
 
    
 
 
   
    
     
   
    
     
    
   
    

Ae AS | ; Sas Pa : cholastic Title ives me pleasure to do so, I approach The New Zealanders, who came over .
Ale, _ The courts of the Carleton j S CrP SA, oe task with a certain amount of|in 1905, had an arrangement of one Star Carries of f
With only a few days re- On Saturday the Halifax Academy misgiving. full back, three three-quarters, two Premier Honors

Pe Tennis Club have been again
P ev: procured fur the use of Dal_ __ housie_ students. - All students
have the privilege of using these
courts at any time except Sunam : days.

won The Maritime Interscholastic It would appear from ancient records five-eight’s (practically two advanced
Championship and the Dalhousie Bow] | that Football of some sort has been|centre three quarters), one halfback
for the third successive year. Gifted played in the U. K. from very early and seven forwards in the pack and —
with a clear sunny day and witnessed times—and English Kings from time one wing forward (really a half back

by a large number of spectators, the |to time passed stringent laws for its|who placed the ball in the Scrum),
events were run off in fine style. suppression as tending towards riotous| The method of scoring also has gone

maining before the first league
game, Coach MacCarthy is
whipping the Bengals into top
notch form. Under Mac's vet
eran direction the squad is be- The Class of 387 showed their

3 ; ; sn z : ee ae Ny 4 eect A ceviain wipidetudes at frati wares at. their track seer on
ee ‘ ? emble a real foot- Led by Jack Cotter and the sensa-| assemblies and many of my readers through certain vicissitudes, at first |W
oe Entries for the Dalhousie Ten ginning to res e < eta Ela Nicks, the Academy | will remember where Sir Walter Scott|a goal brought any number of Trys,| Thursday Inst. Henry Ross,

ball team. Dal has always produced a fighting side but the
spirit shown this year will also
make it a winner. There are

nis Tournament (singles only)
are now being called. Make
sure your entry is placed before
5 o'clock today as the lists close

collected 44 points to St. John's 29, mentions met ae pares ease ne oe a eel wee sf age aki Lahde former Maritime Interscholastic ,

to win the coveted trophy. Cotter|tiot, revelry anc rout pursuec Scoring by points was then introduced] 0 Aa eriec “ : ; a

with wins in the 60 100 "300, and | Football game.” In many parts of |and what were called minor points star, carried off premuer honurs

being a member of both winning relay | the north of England games between |} were awarded. Gradually the present with four firsts and a second. |
i, | various Parishes took place, the goals|system of five points for a goal (the | Roger Rowley of Ottawa won

a

   
   
    
     
   
 
  
  
   
 
    
   
    
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
    
   
  
 
   
   
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
     
     

r + 5 : tot : teams copped the individual cup wit I ; : . : r
/) at that time. Entry lists are)so many candidates for poe oa teams copped tne ta He was closely |being sometimes two miles apart. Try not to count), four points for |the shot put and placed second s
a io, to be found at Shirreff Hall, |second team berths that tne foilowed by Alvin Thompson with 15, Rules of course there were very few|a dropped goal, three points eee in the high jump. In the four

Bee Forrest Building, Arts Buildings] Cubs will be almost as good aS]ang Skinner with 13. and the strongest and most muscular penalty or marked goal, and three ie epee ee Ruth aay é Se
Gymnasium and the Carleton | the Varsity. Phe brilliant performarce of Frank|side always won. ey RE me SNE ee ear | BYE EN oe Ce ee

ee ee = Ch Nicks in the 440 was the highlight In 1823 when Webb a scholar at The Laws of the game were altered|three, the high jump going to

eas ae a Rul Blonde Ernie Richardson iS]of the aay, his time being 49 3/5 sec. Rugby rae pace ee Ee ane a rye pe ee to time me Isabel Fraser. The small turn‘Tournament Kules : ; ‘ -.<| In this event he broke not only the|ran with it, the Kugby Union 8% the present Laws of tne game are the) |. was a discredit to the new
~~ 4, All matches are to consist handling the managerial aus Maritime Interscholastic record but|was really born, and while numerous result of careful study by a body of OUt Was @ discredit to the Bey

er f ; + of three sets with Doc Byrne assisting. It is also the Dominion Interscholastic and | contests took place in_ the following | practical men over a period of sixty class, but the ten or more ath
| oP Ail al to | difficult to foretell the result Of|+he Maritime senior records. Nauss|forty years, each district appears to | years. letes put up a fine exhibition

-" ‘eds : Aawy 4 ite , c ’ 2 ars - “ta ¢ > Vries > ‘ Hm £ = an C

Ey R cr UN! matches are ; Oo be Sat urday’s battle but every] of Lunenburg High was the only other | have had its own set of Rules. In the It is a remarkable feature also that befure a small crowd of spectaBrey? | arranged by the competitors. f ‘f ] 1 : d ter- record breaker hurling the javelin meantime the Association game had each of the four countries had its own tors

ae 3 All first round matches os or the ree i e€ | 154 ft. 8 3/4 in. sprung up and in the early sixties = particular virtues. What could beat | © ue Gary .
ee . =, mined to Win. cadia have a All the events were keenly contested. {effort was made to amalgamate the|the lightning rush of an [rish pack, or u ary.

aa <a een By Rn entirely renovated team, but] Alvin Thompson won both broad and|two games. This, however, ences, in|the crafty dribbling of a Scottish one,
est night, October (, wea ck per f ree | i j : In the | failure and the English Rugby Union } Note the beautiful passing of the Welsh | Girls 50 yds.—1. Ruth Scaling;

A eg nt forth b ‘“oach | high jumps also the shot put. in the Y iris S- - Ruth Scaling,

mS  mitting. The other rounds are any eat er ‘ae y ed ae hich rs eae forced to the limit by| was formed, followed by the Scottish, backs and the methodical work of an ) oes Reaser, “Tinta? AE i
mor) ~~ to be completed in not more than Fred Kel y) Who ESY® a 200" “= | Skinner, husky St. John star. Thomp- Irish and Welsh in the order named. | English side. —_ i ee
ee count of itself. ‘Traditional ri- son came close to his own record in the | Great clubs like Blackheath and Rich- The game continued to flourish Shes

re two days each.

4. Players unable to arrange
their matches are to call Don
Sinclair, B1921. Such players,
failing to complete their matches
or to give notification within the

until 1896, when what was known as| Girls 90 yds.—1. Ruth Scaling;
the ‘‘Great Divide” took place. This 9 Isabel Fraser. Time181/5
was — result largely of the reper sass
type of teams in the North and in the pores :
South of England. In the North the |Girls’ High Jump—l. Isabel
teams were largely composed of men Fraser; 2. Ruth Sealing.
employed in the great cotton mills of Height 4 ft. 2 in.

shop put failing by an inch. mond in the south and Manchester,

Innis from Pictou was well away Liverpool, Leeds, Bradford, Severnton
to a win in the mile when he had a and Galford in the north were formed
slight accident in the last lap. and the game could be considered as

The time for this event was fairly | really established. The first Interslow being 5 min and 6 sec, Chipman, national between England and ScotLunenburg star, came from behind to land was played at Edinburgh in 1875

vals, the two universities should
put up a battle royal. Probably
many Dalhousians will | make
the trip through curiosity to
see what Coach MacCarthy has
done f or our Alma Mater.

 

 

7? Fi time limit for their round, will nose out Ronnie Heisler in the 880. and between England and Ireland Lancashire, and the Woolen mills of Girls’ Broad Jump—1. Ruth

| be scratched. Where notice has] As yet Saturday’s lineup is n-| The finish of this race was very exciting at pate ees Ce ne ee ae Pore ene ae _ the Foun- Scaling; 2. Isabel . Fraser

a, : i ‘ entianes ‘ and the time of 2 min. 11 sec., just one | land played at ardl nk .|deries, Collieries, anc OCKs, ee Ot Wea ra Mae

“3 i, Been, given by one ro both pity definite. The a es Pane second short of the record. At that time teams were composed In the South the teams were almost Dist. 13 ft. 3 in.

fe ers and the match is held up by | tried in all positions to find the In the special events namely the 100 of twenty men a side, and were divided | all composed of what is known in|Boys’ 50 yds.—l. Ross; 2. 4

only one of the players, that | one to which they are best suited. | metres and 200 metres, Aileen Meagher, | in two full backs, one three quarter] England as ‘‘better class people.”

 

 

     
     
   
   

  

 

 

   
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
    
 
  
 
  
  

 

 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
   
  
 
      
  

 

 

 

 

; | 7 =: : oh can  * iad Ais a 2 Thompson; 3. Wiezel. Time
x player will be scratched at the A great loss to the team 1s the fee ay on wis setae oo eee Fee lok ere eee the ee ra eA 61 10 aly
- . : * : +4. : ‘ ‘ape Breton. In| wards numbered filteen ¢ re >|afford to lose time and wages playing Secs.
ee end of the time allowed for his forced retirement of Carl Stod- Err a nctre on Sa see to good| me a Scrummage or Maul as it was Football, and asked the English Rugby 12 Ib Shot Put-——l. Rowley;
Bt rab round. Where both players give | dard, the “ Mighty Atom” of the starts but in the last half of the race| called was quite an affair. The men|Union to legalize payment for lost) 2. Ross; 3. MacHattie. Dist. 2
BL notice and are unable to etd 1932 campaign, through the in- | Aileen easily demonstrated her super- pare and stringed n Poe time. ; ane was oe and ee 24 ft. 4 3/4 es
ba ch pl s will be scratch- olde +4 ing. all ro-|iority. In the 200 metres Miss Mac- | quite hive minutes and the steam arose |two of the great clubs of Lancashire é ; Ts es
. ce ae the time set for anteked it Napa and Oita ei chased Aileen all the way, but] 1n clouds. Eventually one side would and Yorkshire seceded and formed the Mile Run—l. Simmonds ; 2.
: . ability, < + t timed in the last 30 or 40 metres. The| push the other over and the ball would | Northern Union. Forster; 8. Robb. Time 5
| completion of their round. _ jeducated toe will patrol the | times were 18 2/5 for the hundred and} emerge into the light of day. Passing min 17 secs. /
“D. Players must furnish their fullback zone again, stars such 25 3/5 for the 200. was unknown and a player ran as far (To be continued). Rove’ Hich J oF Risa:
ae ; >liminarie din the fore-|as he could. Drop kicking was muech oy g ump = OSS;
been oven tetinis balls. as Buckley, Ralston, ee ee re oe 4 ft 2 practised and Stokes of England 2. Rowley; 3 MacDonald
bat Be 6. Play is to commence|Beént, Phil Magonet and the | noon, leaving the finals for the atter-| Pin aa -cctt of | Experience Teaches—He (as Poiches K fe fs : ee
ees 3 . ; noon. Ninian Finlay of Scotland, Bagott of p Ls Height 5 ft. 3 in.
a : Thursday, October 5. Thompson brothers should com- Summar Ireland and many othere were noted they drove along a lonely road): a
: y: ang é oe ile : ) pnt y road):|Boys’ Broad Jump—l. Ross;
a 7. These rules are effective|pose a snappy smooth-working vi drop kickers. About 1880 the sides} ‘You lodk lovelier to me every 2 Tiompsot:3 \Niezel (hice
a in both the men’s and ladies’ | hackfield; in the scrum, doughty | 60 se Colter) Zar Skinner; 3rd —— ae me minute. Do you know what| 90 f¢. 3 tS ; J
ee . ; naerson. ime 6 3/0 sec. y rere: eet : >)? oa : , a
Es events. Doug Murray, Captain Tanton, 100 yds—ist Cotter; 2nd Skin ner; 3rd| threequarter backs, two half backs that aa Sigh of? : Discus Throw—1. Ross; 2. Wieees McSween, Peters, Miller, Good- Theakston. Time 10 2/5 sec. and nine forwards. Fast hand to hand She: ‘Sure. You’re about to zel; 3. McKenzie. Dist. 76 ft.
. D. M. SINCLAIR, |man, and Eagles will bear the |220 yds—lst Cotter; 2nd Skinner; 3rd] passing was introduced by Oxford] run out of gas.’’—/ tterary Digest.| 2$ in : |
eee: Tennis Manager.| brunt of the attack. Feindel. Time 24 1/5 sec. University under the guidance of . d
a 440 yds—lst Nicks; 2nd Fox; ord Harry Menage 0 ee ene University was “Tall” girls when they wish
oa : Feindel. Time 49 3/5 sec. practically invincible for a time, ae)
. wate. The team only needs student 880 yds—Ilst Chipman; 2nd Hiseler;| . The four three-quarter system was| to phone the boy friend can take
re ee support ber become a weer 8rd Fox. Time 2 min. 11 sec. introduced by Wales, largely through | q tip from a sister coed of HOME LAUNDRY
ae ‘“The only war | ever approved | beater. t’?s up to every loyal|1 mile—Ilst MacLean; 2nd Dixon; 3rd TERS Se nee nee ee acta ew warcity Ww rant
q , f . h yr : y aT as| Dall y on be mae hee White. Time 5 min 6 4/5 sec. Broad Jump—lst Thompson; 2nd Western University who went to 32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331
ac. GF Woe the, Lrojan. war; it was a nousian ; f Wa Theakston; 3rd Skinner 31 ft $ in. the president s office, borrowed Student Laundry at 20%
ae fought over a woman and _the| yelling their heads off for their|o. 44 put—ist Thompson; 2nd Mac- a nickle for a phone call and Discount
oe men knew we jen were team at vey game this year-| Lean; 3rd Laidlaw. 40 ft. 9 3/4 in. As patie Ht. C. A.; 2nd. Lunen-| asked the secretary to ‘‘add it Dry Cleaning. $1.25 tao ones
ae) ing for.’’— alliam ion PFelps.\On to Acadia! Javelin—I1st Nauss; 2nd Wile; 3rd yurg; 3rd Colc rester. 4: “17”? plete Suit or Overcoat.
Pa) 8 , P Graham. 154 ft. 3 3/4 in. 1 mile relay—ist H. C. A.; 2nd Lunen- to her tuition bill.
is Discus—l1st. Porter; 2nd MacLean; sa oor
ic 3rd Oxner. 99 ft. eam Standing— Ee
Re High Jump—1st Thompson; 2nd Skin-| 1. H.C. A—44 :
ha ner; 8rd Holder. 5 ft. 5 7/8 in. 2, St. John—29. Our High Quality Standard
Seek i ee ae makes our Low Prices |
a ndividual— Doubly Att i
NICKERSON & CREASE|) } Set" 011 G ee
2. Thompson—15—Pictou.

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and |
THURS. - FRI. - SAT. TUXEDO at one |
RONALD COLMAN price |
|

‘THE MASQUERADER’ $21 00

Limited

Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.

H ALIFAX, N. S.

3. Skinner—13—St. John.

THOS. SCARFE

BOOT and SHOE

REPAIRER
SPECIALTY

Putting on Football Cleats
Sharpening Skates

SCARFE’S

50 COBURG RD.

 

       
   
   
      

and “OLD KING COLE”’ the
finest technicolor It t
T. J. WALLACE case ee
SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

 

MADE TO MEASURE |

MON. TUES. WED. Tip To Tailors
VAUDEVILLE = ||) sen 'eruoters canons |

and KAY FRANCIS TRAMWAY BUILDING

‘MARY STEVENS, M. D.’

 
 
  

 
      
     
    
     
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
     
     

Barrington and Sackville Sts.

eee

APPRECIATION

For a number of years we
have been privileged to launder
for a great many Dalhousie
students. In appreciation of
this patronage we inaugurated
special rates for students and
always endeavored to give the
finest possible service at all
times.

We wish to maintain this
established connection with
Dalhousie and would ask the
new student to try our courteous and efficient service—The
laundry service that has satisfied countless old students.

May We Serve You?

 

 

 

  

Halifax Transfer

pHONE B.7138

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

ey ne

| Men’s Birkdale Oxfords
_ Priced at, Pair $5.50

Shoes that are popular with men everywhere! Of fine
ealf or kid leathers in blucher and Balmoral styles,
medium and square toe lasts, in black or brown, and
sizes 6 to 1l. See the new Birkdales for Fall wear
on your next visit to the store. Eatons Second Floor.

GARRICK|| Casino |

ALL THIS WEEK

STARTING SATURD
The International OCTOBER oi i

Musical Hit JACK HULBERT

“Re Mine Britain’s King of Comedy

To-Night” a ,

‘Love on Wheels’

  

 

 

 
 

& . = P= , On all Student calls.
i ze ce A ’ Oo N oO B 607 0 Our phone No. is L2300. Evenings Matinees NEW SONGS DANCES
< teaemariTiMes LIMITED . 20c. - 25c. 20c. | COMEDY
a :. Halifax Steam Laundry

     

 

   

 

 
