   

a

 

 

_ as master of ceremonies, first

 

 

 

 

Fi irst Dance of |

Season Is
Success

~ An enthusiastic and sizeable crowd |Thursday Jan. 25th:

of students gathered at the Nova Scotian Friday at 2.30 to be on time for the
grand march of the most important
after Christmas dance and also in the
hope that they might win the door
prize. The lucky couple turned out to
be Connie Smith and Shorty MacLellan.
- Under the able chaperonage of Prof.
and Mrs. James M. MacDonaldand
Prof. and Mrs. W. P. Copp and with
the ever dependantly good music of
Jerry Naugler’s orchestra the evening
boded fair of being a successful one.
- The committee consisting of Wayne
MacKie; Don Archiblad; Doug Bent,
John Fisher, Don Sinclair, and Frank
Squire had arrainged a floor show and
various other novelties for the entertainment of the dancers. John Fisher
interrupted a dance to announce an imitator
_of the Four Willis’ Brothers by some
Halifax boys who sang ‘Old man Sun~ shine, Little Boy Bluebird’ and other
similar selections for us. From time
to time during the remainder of the

dances. The writer being rather short
foe somehow always finding himself

a the ontaide Nee of the circle of spec- |

“comments of those more patunats who
were standing i in the first two or three:
rows. Marguerite Redden gave an
impersonation Dance to “the Rhapsody in Blue’’ and Thora Adames an
Oriental Dance.Most of which were
very interesting. The rest of the show
consisted of tap dancing andan acrobatie dance very pleasingly presented
by some of Miss Redden’s youngpupils.
Meanwhile during the intermissions
the imitators of the Mills Brothers
again performed and a magician did
eard and slight of hand tricks for those
standing about.

Towards the middle of the evening
supper was served in the Main Dining
room and was duly appreciated by the
students after several hours of fairly
consistant dancing. After this refreshment the dancing continued and
those seen wandering aimlessly around
the Lobby or Lounge and sometimes
some what wistfully past the fire es
‘cape doors. At one time a repair man
wished to enter the stage by the back
entrance and on finding it locked
sought permission to do only to be
refused because he looked suspiciously
like a student. After wasting his persuasin powers on the authorities and his
physical powers on the door, he was
forced to subside, unsuccessful. Such

were the draw backs of looking like a

Dal man.

The inconvenient departure of the
- Shirreff Hall Gjrls and their escorts at
2.00 o'clock somewhat subdued the
remaining hour of the party, merely
through lack of numbersif not of spirits

But in spite of that it was a most pleasant party. The music was good as
_ everyone suspected it would be and we
trust that the hotel guests were not
disturbed.

 

ei Re! The days of ancient Rome were lived

  

in last Saturday evening as the
's Classical Club presented a

- Snes scenes from the Paautine
_ comedy Captim. The play was pre
sented at the home of Dr. J. R.Corston

_ which was transformed for the evening

- into a finely accoutred theatre complete
_ with stage effects, curtains, footlights,

- “and backstage dressing rooms.

_ Among those taking part were the
_ Misses Helen Hamilton, Maureen
Crichton, Mary Cleworth, Ena Garber,

bi Gladys Longard, Mabel Murphy, and
seat Lindsay, and the Messrs R. B.
Adams Ferguson, i: Bi Corston, and

evening a show was inserted between ; Wednesday

Coming Events

 

Bennett

Shield Debate, Room 3, Arts

Bldg., 12 noon. Subject:

‘*Resolved Women’s Styles are

more Sensible than Men’s.’’
SENIORS vs. JUNIORS.

Friday Jan. 26th: Lecture:
Dr. H. F. Munro, ‘‘The Freedom of the Seas.’’ Gymnasium 8.15 p. m.

Saturday Jan. 27th: Intermediate Basketball, Dalhousie vs.
Y. M. C. A. Newman Club
meeting, K. C. Hall, 3.30 p.m.

Monday Jan. 30th: Interfaculty Hockey League, ComFreshmen.

merce vs. Forum

6-7 p. m.

Tuesday Jan. 3lst: Lecture on
Personal Hygiene for Men.
Chemistry Theatre, 2.30 p. m.

Feb. Ist: Wrestling Workout, 7 o’clock, Lower
Gym.

 

Of The Week

Dalhousie Grad

Passes In Quebec

Classmates and friends in

parts of Nova Scotia will learn with regreat of the death at Shawinigan Falls,
P. Q. of Robert A. MacDonald, son of
Rev. and Mrs. A. J. MacDonald of
Milford Station, Hants County. Only
twenty-four years of age, Mr. MacDonald held a senior position in the
chemical research department of Shawinigan Chemicals Limited, a subsidiary
of Shawinigan Falls Power Co. Ltd.
Mr. MacDonald had had a distinguished academical career. Graduating from Glace Bay High School in
1923 he entered Dalhousie University.
He graduated from Dalhousie in 1927
with his B. A. degree, majoring in
chemistry. The following year he secured his M. A., degree still specializing
in chemistry, and thus had attained
both degrees at the age of nineteen.
It was immediately following his graduation that he accepted a position with
the Shawinigan Chemicals Limited.
Mr. MacDonald will be greatly missed, particularly amongst his former
classmates, for at Dalhousie he was <
prime favorite and active in the social
life of the college. He was an accomplished pianist and possessed of an unusually fine bass voice. He is survived by his parents and two sisters,
Dorothy and Florence, both at home.

 

Team chosen at
Debating Trials

Debating trials were held Saturday
morning to determine who would re-present the University in a debate to
be held against King’s College in the
latter part of February. The Chairman of the Trials was John W. Fisher,
Secretary of Sodales Debating Society.

Those who spoke upon the subject,
which has been chosen for the debate
were Edward Arab, Ronald Copp,
Bruce Ferguson, David Redmond,
Donald B. Sutherland, Harry Sutherland. Those who were picked to represent the University in the debate
were Bruce Ferguson (leader,) Harry
Sutherland and Ronald Copp. The
judges at the trials were Professor C.
H. Mercer, Professor C. L. Bennett

jand Howard Oxley.

Offi Gl Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 25th, 1934.

 

Dr. Munro To| McGill Professor

Be Heard In

Lecture

The third ectue in the Daihousie
series is on a subject that is very timely
and of great moment in the world today: ‘‘The Freedom of the Seas.”
The subject has been debated in modern
Europe ever since the days of Hugo de
Groot. In his day the dispute was between the maritime powers of Holland
and England. To-day, and indeed
since the War of 1812, it has been something of an issue between Britain and
the United States. For these and other reasons it is naturally a matter of
importance to the League of Nations.

On such a topic as t his there is no
better authority than Dr. H. F. Munro. A lifelong student of politics, he
lived in the United States long enough
to become familiar with the American
point of view. Recently he was one
of the Canadian representatives at
Geneva. He is always welcome when
he returns to the Dalhousie circle, and
always an acceptable speaker to a
Halifax audience.

Students Work on

Social Service

—_—

 

 

 

Business is poor; hundreds are unemployed; thousands of children are
under-privileged. Is this news? Of
course not! Everyone knows it, and
we students have long been wondering
if there was anything we could possibly
do to help. Usually we have pondered
over the matter, decided nothing, and
let the matter drop.

Since Christmas the S. C. M. has
been considering the problem, and now
its investigating committee brings in
the report: SOMETHING CAN BE
DONE! WE STUDENTS WILL DO
IT!

Ten days ago Rev. J. H. Freestone,
who is actively in touch with every
branch of social service work in the
city, entertained a group of interes
students in his home, and gave a comprehensive summary of relief programs
at present being carried out, and pointed out a few possible fields for student
activity.

Investigation has shown the most
fruitful field of endeavour to be under
the auspices of the North End Mission,
which carries on its work among the
“down-and-out.”” “‘The men = and
women are where they are because of
what they are,’’ said Mr. Theakston,
their friend and helper, ‘‘but it is in the
children that our hope lies.” The
children are bright and intelligent, and,
if properly trained, will make good and
stable citizens. We students can work
with the children by conducting afternoon classes for them any afternoon
in the week except Tuesday from 3:30-5
teaching them games, playing with

them and working with them. The
children are anxious to come. Will

we let them?

This is a grand opportunity for us
students. Now is the time for us to
dq something practical. Our efforts
will be appreciated, and they wil! bear

fruits. Are you interested? Are you
too busy? One afternoon in every

two weeks is all you will be asked to
give. Are you bashful? Another student will always be there to help you.
Are you interested? If you are, kindly get in touch with one of the following
within the next few days:

Eirene Walker—102 Willow St.—
L7855.

Donald Robb—Pine Hill Residence
—B9586.

Doris Pugsley, Shirreff Hall —B.7945.

Helen Reynolds—52 Seymour St.—
B.3591.

Heard in Lecture

King Winter's proverbial disrespect

 

No. 13

 

 

e ~ McGILL AND DALHOUSIE DEBATE OVER RADIO

 

Messrs. Oxley and Fisher
Are Dalhousie Speakers

 

Starting the pendulum swinging in

for persons and events was amply de-|# Series of intercollegiate radio de bates

monstrated on the occasion, last Friday evening, of Dr. Woodhead’s
ture ‘Plato as a Literary Artist.’
There were in attendance at the Gymnasium, however, a considerable group
whom snowdrifts and icy winds failed
to discourage. President Stanley,
chairman of the gathering, happily referred to the audience as ‘the pure in
heart.’

In introducing the distinguished
speaker of the evening, Presiaent Stanley remarked that the word scholar
would perhaps best describe Dr. Woodhead were it not that the popular and
erroneous conception conveyed by
this word is that of one who merely
pores over booksin study. Dr. Woodhead, however, has amply demonstrated his effective and capable qualities,
not only at McGill University, but also
in the city of Montreal and in the
Province of Quebec. On arriving at
McGill 10 years ago he found no willing
students of either Latin or Greek,
while in the Province of Quebec it was
actually illegal to teach Greek in secondary schools. ‘This sorry state of
affairs has fortunately been remedied,
so that at the present time, students of
high calibre are engaged in teaching
casssics in Quebec ‘schools, and scores
seek voluntary instruction in these
subjects at University lectures.
Throughout all this course of events the
patent and wise guidance of Dr. Woodhead was constantly in evidence. He
came, he smiled, he conquered.

Plato, said Dr. Woodhead, has been
described with much justice as the
greatest of prose writers. The fact
that all the dialogues which made him
famous in his own day have survived
for 2300 years testifies to his essential
greatness. We of today who read his
works, tested by time asthey have been
are in even better position to appreciate
Plato than were the Greeks of his own
day. Plato is as much alive now as
ever, both as philosopher and as writer
of finished sparkling and _ beautiful
prose. He may and should be studied
with pleasure and profit, both by professional and by non-professional philosopher.

The life of Plato was admirably and
concisely outlined. by Dr. Woodhead.
No lecture on Plato could overlook the
life and influence of his great and inspiring’ master, Socrates, of whom AIlcibiades said ‘He looked like Silenus,’
The lecturer vividly pictured the wise
old philosopher with tattered cloak
and unprepossessing features, walking
about the streets of Athens and conversing with the youths of the city.
Socrates regarded himself as a midwife
of the soul, whose function it was to
bring true and beautiful thoughts forth
to light. This he did by questions,
skilfully plied and reasonably answered
He was misunderstood by his fellowcitizens and after being tried and
charged with having corrupted the
minds and beliefs of his followers, the
youths of Athens, he was found guilty,
and was put to death in 331 B. C.
There are those who claim that Socrates
was born before his time, and who imply that in our day, he could have found
a more sympathetic bearing. One
wonders, however, whether the atmos
in the eastern section of the Canada
adian Radio Commission, Dalhousie |
and McGill went into action against
each other. Tuesday evening on the
question: “Resolved that capital
punishment should be abolished.”’ The
affirmative was upheld by Messrs.
John A. MacLeash and E. C. Calloway
of McGill. Howard C. Oxley and John
W. Fisher represented Dalhousie with
the negative.

Dr. M. F. Munro, Superintendent of
Education for Nova Scotia, acted as
referee. His decision was announced
Wednesday evening. '

Mr. McLeash started the ball rolling
by assuring everyone that the age-old
question was still of the greatest interest and importance to society. He
represented that society fails to recognize the other man; it makes the}
criminal and then destroys him. In-|
stead of gallows being at the end of the
path of crime, guideposts should be
placed at intervals to deter the prospective murderer from his deed. Mr.
MacLeash’s strong point was that
capital punishment for theft had been
successfully abolished.

In reply, Howard Oxley stated that |
this was not the time to tamper with
laws, that capital punishment must be
continued as long as necessity exists.
He requested his friendly opponents to
show that necessity didn’t exist. Mr.
Oxley stated that countries
had recently abolished capital punishment for the great but had
found it necessary to reinstate it. In
conclusion he said that society demands

several

crime,

| e

_ crime,
| protected against crime,
| ° ‘

_ were committed with the full knowledge

lled to the capture of the

|‘ to be protected from those who cools
calculate taking a fellow citizens life.
The purpose of law stated E. C. Cal
lec- | Wide contest sponsored by the Can-; loway, second speaker for McGill, who

made his speech with a slight French
twang, was to indemnify the victim,
correct the guilty one and lastly to defend society

How

against
then

of
be
when murders

recurrence

could society

that the jury would always hesitate in
subn.itting the murder to the gallows?
The charge that civilization was still
primitive in that the ancient custom of
‘an eye for an eye and a tooth for a
tooth” was still the custom was made.
This was backed up by the proverb
that “two wrongs never make a right.”
His speech was concluded with the assertion that capital punishment has a
demoralizing effect on society since it
is done in secret.

John popular man about
campus was the last speaker. He suggested a remedy for Mr. Calloways last
assertion. He showed that a life sentence is no longer what it used to be,
and murderers always fight for a life
sentence instead of the gallows, Furthermore, Mr. Fisher showed. that the
scaffold has a great effect on those
contemplating murder, and has even

Fisher,

criminal.
Capital punishment, he said, was the
only way to deal with murder.

The rebuttal was made by Mr, MacLeash in which he stated that capital
punishment

cannot be deterrant to
crime, since in Sweden, where it had
been abolished, the capital crime had

while in the

it had increased.

decreased, United States

 

TRACK AND FIELD NOTICE.

For the benefit of those who
are desirous of making the
Dal Track and Field Team for
the coming Intercollegiate
Meet, notice is hereby given
that regular practices will take
place at 7 o’clock sharp on Wednesday evenings from now till
Spring. Attendance at these
practices in the Gym. are compulsory. For further
mation see Mr. Stirling.

infor
H. MAGONET, Mer.

 

U. K. C. Notes

It looked for awhile as though the
rink in front of the residence was doomed to a snowy grave. But due to the
strenuous efforts of all the freshmen
and a number of their seniors, a successful battle was fought against the
heavy snowfall, and the rink has since
provided several excellent practices.
The work of the freshmen wasn’t exactly a labor of love, but it was appreciated.

 

Our co-eds, after borrowing every
available pair of skis in the residence,
braved the elements one afternoon on a

trip to Point Pleasant Park. In spite

phere of the ‘machine age’ would have, of the fact that no men were on the
contributed to a right understanding | party, the co-eds declare that they had a

of Socrates’ aims and principles.

Plato and Socrates both possessed
the saving grace of humour. Socrates
was a born tease, said Dr. Woodhead,
and delighted in pestering the young

men with whom he constantly assoc-! host to the St.

liated. One youth complains to So-'
crates that he is hemmed in by prohibitions. His family will not permit’

Baillie MacKay—39} Edward St—| him to drive the chariot: a slave must

B.0560,

| do this and similar officesfor him.

thoroughly enjoyable afternoon.

The College Badminton team was
Andrew's team on
Thursday last. Although the St. Andrew’s group won all but one set, the
games were well played. The evening
was ended by refreshments being served

| in Alexandra Hall,

N.F.C.U.S. Meet
Held in Ontario

The Executive Council of the National Federation of Canadian
Students met in
from December 26th to 2
the of Western
The president, M. K.
University,
gates were

Uniconference
Ith, 1933, at

versity
University Ontario.
Kenny of Torpresided and delepresent from the Students
Councils of Dalhousie, Acadia, Mt. AlliNew Brunswick, Bishop's University, University of Montreal, McGill, Mc Master, Western, Ottawa University, Toronto University, ManiSaskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia.

onto

son,

toba,

The delegates discussed problems_ef—___—_|

student government, initiation. cooperative purchasing of athletic equipment, special student railway rates, the
Exchange Scholarship Plan, debating
tours, and the administration of the
NM... $s

Ne P25 Us cut substantially and it was decided not to
hold another Conference until December 1935. The officers until then will
be—President M. K. Kenny (Toronto):
Ist Vice-President, Mark Collins (British Columbia;) 2nd
R. Lanthier (U. of
tary-Treasurer, P.
(Alberta.)

S. fees were

Vice-President,
Montreal:) SecreG. Davies M. P.

Some misunderstanding having
arisen with regard to eligibility for
Exchange Scholarships, the National

Federation of Canadian Uni'versity
Students has made the following announcement:

An applicant for a 1934-35 Exchange
Scholarship must now be in at least the
second year of his or her university
course, but he need not be in the second
year of university attendance. In
other words, a student who obtained
Senior Matriculation in 1933 and who
entered university (second year) in the
fall of 1933, is eligible for an Exchange
Scholarship.

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
    
     
  

ie

»
ad
a

7% La

4 a
ee
rae

be

}
Deeg
es

oie ~

  
   
     
 

4.
~

     
 
  
 

yo a
*

     
    
    
    
   

>

ee
.

EDITORIAL STAFF. —

 

‘ty

ee ok . Editors.
ROY D. DUCHEMIN, B. A. W. H. JOST, B. A.
ae os oa : ; B. seis.
es par z : Associates.
i Freenian Stew. wart. Borden Stoddard.
oa David R.Allen _ J. L. Dubinsky.
. = FEF nk Goudge. a
Se ks _ NEWS DEPARTMENT.

_ EDITOR—HARRY SUTHERLAND, B5487.

Associates: Douglas Crease. - James MacIntosh.
= ig 7 ‘Archor Merkel. E. Arab.
: SPORTS

-EDITOR—TED CREASE, B5737.
_ Associates: Donald B. Cameron,
: Ruth Skaling.

GIRLS EDITOR: MARTHA KENISTON,
Associates: M Simmonds.
Merle Purtill.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.
Assistant Manager

.

May |. aa Circulation
- OAVID. H. HOLLAND. €.R.MACDONALD. HOWARD C. OXLEY, B.A.
. iB, 2648 aes

B, 2543

a

cess many believe it deserves.
_ been attended by a disappointingly small number, and the attend
4
¥

of:

Be en
Bee
aetna

‘

by outstanding figures in Canadian educational circles.

- such profusion at Canadian colleges to day.
_ er the lectures be good or bad, the qualifying word carries but little

y
endless procession of learned and unlearned discourses of this

A ey i NS

alee 4


   
  

_ Are the girls afraid to hear their own
__ Out of more than three hundred girls,

 

LECTURES

| - Apparently the lecture series arranged by the University authorities in the interest ot the students is not meeting with the sucThe two lectures so tar given have

ance of students, who are not required to pay, has been negligible.

- And upon due reflection it is not difficult to understand the
attitude of the students towards lectures, even such as these, given
Students
early acquire an antipathetic attitude towards lectures, given in
It matters not wheth
weight to the average student who looks upon a lectures as some
-_. thing to be undergone, something in the nature of a necessity or an

ordeal rather than a privilege. |
— At Dalhousie particularly this year has appeared to witness an

 

sort, with the treshmen bearing the brunt of this verbal barrage.

Small wonder they look upon lectures with anathema. Deluged

lectures on ethics and conduct by their professed guiding

its, lectures which they are told and believe are compulsory,

‘tures on hygiene and health which likewise are made “compul
sory” for them by the University, the new students soon acquire
; dislike for these extra burdens.

      
   
  
 
 
 
  
  

  

  
  

hat aos) . sahea th “gi tgiht : 1
eee as, | As for the older students, two or three years of college bring

— them a full share of lectures to which they have become case-hard
ee oe
eis

ened. A lecture is still a lecture, whether given in class by a pro
fessor or outside by a prominent figure, and no mat'ter how interesting be the subject.

_ The writer confesses himselt at a loss to put forward some substitute for the lecture series arranged by the University in place of
what may be termed destructive criticism. College :ife today is
apparently around of activities which does not include such a prosaic occupation as attending lectures. And seemingly nothing can
be done about it; the students have no love for talks and lectures,
and nothing can change their natures or inclinations. The situation must perforce be left as it has evolved.

BOOKS—AND THE STUDENT.

Books, we are persistently told, are to be counted among our

best friends. And those who have come to a realization of that

fact hold a perpetual insurance against the dull and depressing
moments of life as well as a direct lead to the art ot living.

Some time ago President Stanley made the remark that too
few of the present student body were purchasing books for the
‘building up of personal libraries. His point, we believe, is well
taken. While we are inclined to believe that the President rather
underestimated the number of students engaged in this practice,
we quite readily admit that too few of us evidence our appreciation of the virtues involved in the permanent acquisition of books.
Reading books borrowedfrom libraries or from other people is all
very well, but is invariably subject to strain. The volumes must
be returned on schedule—a circumstance always present to the
mind of the reader. The books are seldom available when required.
Re-reading is discouraged. And there is lacking that peculiar
bond between the book and its reader which attaches when the
latter has an absolute proprietary interest.

It is true that students flitting from one boarding-house to
another seldom feel the urge to line a shelf with good Looks. But
this is an observation which goes to the interior decoration of a
temporary home rather than to our main theme The motive for

-aquiring books lies in the content of the volumes themselves. It
is not imperative that many be acquired—a few, well-known, are
better than many, ill-read. Good books are available in well madeup reprints at a moderate cost. Those of us who have over-looked
the purchase of books would do well to follow President Stanley’s
suggestion and experiment with the material he has made available

at the University Store.
Girls Debating Trials
do very seriously, but don’t you think

Last Wednesday, evening showed

one more example of deplorableness| it would be nice if the college could

_ The trials were held to pick three girls wholeheartedly back even one activiwho will debate against Acadia. ty?

A large crowd attended. Five de-| Of the five girls who turned out, it
baters, 3 judges, an audience of 1 and| may be said that all gave very good
the chairman. Ten people all at once| speeches, and the judges admitted a
in the Munroe room.

 

 

 

     
  
   
  
 

number.
The judges were Mrs. C. W. Smith
Prof. R. A. McKay and Mr. O. Crowell.

      
 
  

_ five turned up to try and win a place The three girls chosen to debate
Sr ee tetee i _ | against Acadia were Beth Atherton,
a and talk about other| Phyllis Burns and Edith Blair,

difficulty in choosing three from the

ae, 3

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Letters To f
_ The Editor

January 21, 1934,

To the Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:

I have been disturbed by your editorial of January 18, in which it is suggested that it would be an act of mercy
to dispense with Sodales before it dies a
natural death. I agree that debating
is not well supported at Dalhousie; I
do not agree that lack of popular support is a reason for discontinuing an
activity that gives pleasure and profit
to the few who have sufficient intelligence and interest to seek the best
training that a college can afford.

Examining your article for arguments, I findthree;the attendance is
small; the student body finds the subjects dull; and the expenditure is too
great. On the last point it would be
interesting so have comparative figures.
If every society must please the multitude or pay its way, there may be room
for other cutsin the budget. The first
two points suggest grounds for criticizing the student body at large, but
not for obiecting to debates. The one
admission that you make is on the only
point that matters:
do debates benefit anyone but the debaters, to whom, if there is any profit,
the profit goes.”’

To whom should the benefit goYou, Mr. Editor, appear to be one of
those who think that football is played
for the gate receipts; that the applause
of the many is more desirable than the
serious interest of a few; and that the
object of college life is to please the
crowd. Men and women who play
a part in public life should be able to
express themselvesin public. Debating
societies supply the necessary training,
and have done so in colleges where the
general interest has been less than it is
in ‘‘the luckless career’ of Sodales.
Tothe best of my knowledge, the members of ‘this unfortunate organization”
are making no complaint about lack
of support. They merely ask to be
left free to pursue a universally recognized activity of the intelligent .college student. If the average student
is not actively friendly to Sodales, he
has not, so far, been actively hostile,

though you apparently would like to| ment appear the better.

make him so.

I suspect, however, that you are
merely trying to rouse interest in an
activity that deserves more support
than it commonly receives; and in this
belief I rise gladly to your bait.

Yours very truly,
SENEX.

—

A Co-Ed Exam

 

 

“Now,” said a certain young man
in authcrity to me one fine morning,
‘I want you to tell me your ieelings
and your thoughts,” he paused, ‘‘before, during and after the examinations.”’

“Psychology”, I thought: ‘‘I’ll show
him.” So, it being a very fine winter
morning with snow on the ground and
ice all around, I proceeded to * show
him.”

“Well,” I said, ‘‘just ask me.”

‘Ask you what?’ he looked very
dumb, when he said that. And he’s
not dumb, no, indeed, some of my
friends are.

“Ask me what my feelings were,”
generously keeping my triumph until
later. It would be hard enough on
him, then, poor lad.

He looked puzzled a moment. He
never did take things in quickly.
“Well, come on, what were you feeling?”

“Tl tell you,” I said. Then I had
an inspiration. I'll always account !t
one of the greatest in my life. “‘No, I
won't.” I said, “‘not unless—” “‘unless
what?”

“Unless you get me a cup of coffee
at the store. You know, I just got
down stairs this morning when the maid
was Closing the door and I’m starved.”

“You win,” he said.

Well, I won't trouble you with the
details of my ‘‘astronomic achievements,’ but, about fifteen minutes
later, we were backstage in the gym;
and there I tcld him—I was going to
stay, the story of my life—but I guess
that won't do, now would it?”

He got out paper and pencil, and I
was beginning to feel quite thrilied.
Giving an interview, don’t you know?
Anazysing myseif for people. Just

like Mae West. Oh no, she doesn’t

  

“Rarely in fact] ledge of some surt.

 

The good old days of fancy script
and careful sentences and paragraphs
in letter writing have passed away,

and some say it is lamentable. Far
more lamentable is the loss of the art of
conversation. Few of us can carry on
an intelligent conversation, but fewer
still can carry on an interesting one.
By this I do not mean the man who
knows all and tells all, who can quote
the latest books and latest plays and
whose every word is authoritative.
Certainly I do not mean those who,
when they finish, leave you gasping at
their erudition and marvelling how such
a little head can carry allit does. On
the contrary | mean those who can talk
a great deal about nothing, who leave
you, not feeling that you have learned a
lot, but that vou have been pleasantly
entertained. There is always someone
who knows everything, who is an authority on the subject and insists on
telling you all about it. I think this
unfortunate, and indeed intolerable
state of affairs has arisen from our intense desire to get ‘‘educated,’’ whatever
that means. We must always read,
study and listen with a definite purpose, to get an exact piece of knowThe result is that
in looking for everything we manage to
see nothing. If someone weren't always trying to educate us, we might
learn something, but these various societies, organizations, and _ lecturers
who are continually shoving knowledge
down our throats take away every opportunity for assimilating and enjoying what we already know. This evil
disease has infected and corrupted our
conversation, so that if we do stop to
fondle something irrelevant we are uncomfortably and painfully aware that
we should be learning something, something we could turn to a good account
later on. Reading for the mere pleasure of reading, especially among college students, is practically unknown;
talking for its own sake is wholly unknown, there is always some other ultimate end in view. A long time ago a
group of men known as Sophists wandered over Greece teaching the art of
words, the value of dialectical skill in
a battle of wits, the pure intellectual
pleasure of making the weaker arguTo-day the
criterion is not how do you prove it,
but where did you read it. Consequently our conversation is too inane
for attention or too factual for interest.
It is either indisputable (because someone has written it) or valueless (because someone hasn’t written it).
Oscar Wilde has expressed it well when
he says that Christ “could not stand
stupid people, especially those who are
made stupid by education: people who
are full of opinions, not one of which
they even understand, a peculiarly
modern type.” A highbrow has been
defined as one who tells you what others think, a lowbrow as one who tells
you what he thinks. That is why lowbrows are often frowned upon, but that
is also why lowbrows are often very
interesting,

SS
analyse, does she? She just is. And
plenty t here is of her to be.

However, this young man didn’t
give me any time to savour my excitement. but said abruptly, ‘‘Now what
were your feelings before your first,
shall we say—examination-”’

_ “I felt badly that morning, I remember.”

‘‘Were you afraid? I’ve heard that
fear is the predominant factor in—
“No, no, it wasn’t that. Somebody
had a chicken the night before and I’’—
“Hey, did I ask you to tell me your
stomach troubles or—’’

“Ali right, all right, only I did feel
I shouldn’t have eaten that chicken.
Well, then, I didn’t have any fee:ings.”’

“Nofee:ings! Why, that’s curious,”
he cited it down. I guess you're
an exception,” looking at me with respect. “‘Didn’t I tell you I’d show him”
“now, what were your thoughts?”

“I didn’t have any of them, either.’
If I was an exception, I was bound to
be a good one. But he stalled me.

“That's fine,” he said. “I’m glad
you're normal in one respect. Hardly
anyone has thoughts before an exam.
Now, during the exams.”

Here, I took a paper out of my notebook. I didn’t say anything. I didn’t
need to. And he read:

“Those first awful minutes when you
have no thoughts or feelings at all.
When you're just somebody sitting ina
chair, You don’t even wonder why
you're in the chair,”

(To be continued),

Views and ||Canadian

  
 

College
Comment

 
   

STUDENTS DENY CHARGE.

A cub reporter of a Toronto paper
“The Evening Telegram,” has been responsible for creating considerable disturbance on the Toronto University
campus, It seems that a sensational
news story appeared in the ‘Telegram,”’ charging, under double headlines, that the arrivalot the,GovernorGeneral at Wycliffe college was puncuated by the singing of “The Red
Flag” by the majority of the students.
This report was vehemently denied by
both the Principal of the University
and the student body. Yet the public
had read and digested it’s distorted
contents. Impiouslanguage was directed at the guilty reporter and it is likely
that action will be taken to force the
paper to correct the 1talse impression
its story made. An excerpt from the
story reads;—‘For the first time, a
Governor General paid a visit to Wycliffe College, Toronto University, this
afternoon and the students marked the
occasion by chanting ‘‘The Red Flag.”
The intention was apparently to sing
the Communist anthem as Bessborough
entered the lecture hall, but courage
waned and the Red hymn was sung
five minutes before His Excellency’s
arrival! The collegians, in an effort
to clear themselves in the public eye
compiled a statement which appeared
in the Varsity, to the effect that ‘‘the
student body of Wycliffe College most
emphatically deny that the ‘Red
Hymn” was sung at any time, before,
duringor after the visit of the GovernorGeneral. His Excellency was enthusiastically received by the students
without a single exception.” Needless
to say the reporter beat a hasty retreat.
Political Interference.

Much has been said about the ‘‘freedom of the press,” but now we hear
murmurings of unrest from the theatrical world of Toronto where an attack
has been made on the “freedom of the
stage’. According to the Varsity, the
manager of a down town theatre was
called to the parliament buildings and
told by the Inspector of Theatres, that
his license would be cancelled forthwith unless the production of the play,
“Eight Men Speak,” which deals with
imprisonment of communists, was stopped. When asked why the play could
not go on he was told ‘we just don't
want it on. That’s all.’’ Evidently
this was the outcome oi a threat on the
part of the Provincial Treasurer's department to close down the theatre if
it was rented to the Progressive Club,
who are sponsoring the play. This
was to have been the second showing
of the play, which concerns eight men
serving long terms in Kingston. Penitentiary under Section 98 of the Criminal Code. Perhaps the Progressive
Club was endeavoring to be ultra-progressive by suggesting changes or portraying things as they really exist, at
said Penitentiary, much to the dislike
of said party. Whatever the reason,
the money obtained from the sale of
several hundred tickets on the Varsity
campus, must be refunded. The various dramatic societies intend to organize in protest against this attack
on the freedom of the stage.

AROUND THE CORNER?

A topic of general interest at the
present time is the titanic effort at
economic recovery that is being made
inthe U.S.A. AlJecturer in economics
at Toronto University has given a terse
and to the point summary of the Roosevelt plan. He says,—

‘Mr. Roosevelt’s efforts at raising
commodity prices in a sense are being
expended in the wrong direction, since
he is bringing about the rise by increasing the costs of production. In order
to bring back prosperity, he must increase the profit which goes to manufacturers, and thus induce them to increase their production and re-employ
the men that have been laid off since
1929. Apparently, Mr. Roosevelt does
not see that the net effect of increasing
costs along with prices is to leave the
manufacturer’s profit the same as before the rise.’”’

He was critical also of the gold buying policy that is being carried out.
“On the advice of Professor Warren,”
he said, “‘the President has been raising
the price of gold by extensive purchases
in the hope of starting a rise in commodity prices. At the present time,
however, there is little or no relation
between the price of gold and the prices
of other things,

$$$ .kk SOW
ester nega nS —

first day!

January 25th.*1984

CARICATURES
With Reverence
For None

 
  

  
 
 

MURRAY_MACNEILL

Murray, as he is known in student
circles, or ““Beauty”’ as he is called by
his family, is one of the best known
members of the faculty. Brilliant and
ambitionless he is the ‘‘power behind
the thronc”. He would probably like
to be president, but he is far too valuable as Registrar.

Although he and the President are
not exactly bosom friends, they once
went on a fishing trip together. Unfortunately, Murray returned with a
badly sprained ankle. Who pushed
him off the rock? Besides his work
Murray has three loves—his mathematics class, curling and football.
Though one reads Math 2, three hours
per week in the calendar, students who
take his class find to their consternation that this should read Math 2, 5
hours per week. In spite of this, and
the fact that he does even the hardest
problems in his head, he is popular as a
teacher, especially with the ladies.
How noble a sight he is even after a
map has fallen on his head, standing
undisturbed, and smiling paternally
on his class, while he toys, as he continually does with the fob of his watcnchain.

Murray, as he is known in student
circles or ‘‘Beauty”’ as he is supposed to
resemble R.-B., it is understandable
that so many girls attempt his class.
He is rated by many as Canada’s best
curler. For obvious reasons he is not
fond of using the “‘irons,”’

Seniors admire him, but freshmen
fearhim. Itissaid that when acertain
honorable gentleman from England apapproached him on a delicate but important venture, he asked absentmindedly, ‘How many credits have you?”

Impression Of
College

(By a co-ed.)
How mystifying it all seemed that
I remember the hurrying
from one girl to another, asking advice,
comparing notes, asking what we were
to do, what classes to take, and where
we were supposed toreport. Andthen
registering that was to make me a college student! I was awtully confused
and flustered and asked what I suppose
were an awful lot of childish questions,
but it was too upsetting and then I’d
never had to handle such a lot of money
before. I remember asking what the
fifteen dollars registration went for,
and the three dollars deposit, and then
there was a five dollar charge I think
for a. physical examination when I had
‘ust come from the family doctor!
Then being unused to it all I got the
ten dollar supp exam fee mixed up with
the ten dollar Council fee, forgetting
that the Spring exams aren’t worth a
damn compared to what the professors
can think up for the Fall, and that the
Student's Council ticket would give me
such privileges as attending the Glee
Club shows free, just asif I weren’t a
student at all, paying only twenty five

 

cents to see-each Rugby game whereas
others had to pay twenty five cents,
and walking on cold days over slushy
sidewalks to the Munro Room to hear
ten debaters amuse themselves and an
audience of three who had dropped in
to kill time until the second show, I
suppose | was awfully inquisitive and
must have seemed awfully Scotch, sort
of, but it seemed high to pay fortythree dollars to enroll in college when
it costs only three cents to enroll in the
International Correspondence Schools,
but I suppose that’s what t hey mean by
higher education, Then there was a
man named McNeil who had a little
room off the registering place. JI went
in there and put down the classes I
wanted to take, and he'd take out a
pencil and cross them off; then he’d
put down some classes and I’d cross
them off. We kept doing this until I
thought it must be some sort of an intelligence test like naughts and crosses,
solT asked him, I often wonder now
if he’d have done it if I’d let him
win just once.

Looking back now I can see I must
have been awfully ‘‘green,”’ but at the
time I thought I was doing just what I
should. Of course I soon got into the
swing and learned to be just like the
other girls, to dress, talk, act and think
just like the others so no one would
think me “different,” if you know what
I mean. I learned an awful lot the

first month. I sort of thought college
(Continued on page 8),

 
 
 
  
 
   
    
   
  
    
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
    
  
    
    
   
 
     
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
     
     
  
   
   
    
  
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
     
      
   
    
 
 
      
       
   
     
 
     
 
       
     
       
    
       
 
      
    
      
      
      
       
    
   
 
      
    
     
     
     
  
     
 
       
      
     
       
     
     

AT tras tina E Sees

Ex: Student } F ive Hitlerism | Dawson Club
Meeting

 

mE «

Pine Hill

 

Stellarton, N. S.,|to his ‘first moment’ and his ‘holy
- Jan, 16, 1934.| Yea.” Too late he saw that the thor-| The Dawson. Geological Club held
| oughly disillusioned man is a paralytic; | their first meeting in 1934, on Saturday
'} The Editor, Dalhousie Gazette, all he could offer, himself or us, of con-| €vening at the home of Kevin Meagher,

Peccadillos

One of the: boys recently received a

   
     

<a
r |
a

a solation was the Superman. The Nor-}0n South Street. Mr. Meagher, the ter f h i ; .
a _ Since ra read this column an-| Dear’ Sir:-— . dic Myth and efatisme are the horrid| President of the Club, presided at the a Ea ae hae
les . age ee eae ve ~ he twin progeny of Zarathustra; for did} meeting. Ernest Higgins read a very
beca s4 ; i int ti and instructi
‘gre te Si teataiigoke haye chess: tothe | The article, in the Jan. 11th. issue of |not Neitzsche himself send his god}!teresting and instructive paper on ADVICE TO A SON.

your paper, headed Hitler, Scientist of | down from the solitude of his mountain | the PREECE of “Mining and MuniProgress shrieks, now that it has es-|to mix with men? And if Hitler, the} tions,” in which he described the great] yy
caped its author, for correction: Scientist of Progress, goes long unchal-|importance of mining in the munition
No one will gainsay the importance, | lenged we shall have the German na-| industry and consequently in time of
in the interest of well-being and sur-| tion, fortified with all the blind of an} War. been fleeced so often, in spite of my
vival, of looking zealously to the health | Absolutism, launched on a mission of easlibr advice:
of the human species. But one must world salvation with the sanctifying Dr. Dougall MacGillivary, an Hon- Now that you have attained your ma- POKER 4 AN DS
protest against the confusion of mere | blessing of anational God. But it will] rary member of the Club gave a very| iit. it is only fitting that I offer
biological betterment with the far-re-| be, appropriately an unorthodox sal- interesting talk on the World mone-|. 7. suggestions, out of my own ex- Y S Will B ‘
moved implications of Neitzchean| vation: All the resources of selflessness] taty system, following which those perience, that may help you to conduct Ou save ! ring
philosophy ; and against the identifi- and of courage engendered by the identi- present indulged in a discussion on | yourself and your affairs in the future Th p Y. W,
cation with the operation of Darwin's] fication of a nation’s purpose with a] matters of geological and economic properly, and if not properly, then at e Fresents You ant!
“natural selection’? of any policy of | benevolent God’s will, will be channell-| importance. A program of activities |
ae. ; . least discreetly. I rather doubt that
rere serene oe consider- ‘ oe the caenenee 29 gates pee antes a cee you can have the. brains to fully. unations of euthenics and the limitations] of a lust for power and, risen to an un- | W* aw Ay FEE S ACES ES, FEES EH erate heared appreciate these hints ;
imposed on the application of this sci- | precedented height, released in a boil- | ents were served during the evening. thie: free gilfs-you want. In: tobacco

wy but I can only hope that a few gleams stores and at cigarette counters, look
ence, so. necessarily complementary to|ing torrent of destruction on a Civili- of light will penetrate the fog and save eee toe ae. ia Eseharde
eugenics, by a particular economic] zation, which it proposed to save. . mia feaas fade! ee haccabarndelts ated :
system—a policy, moreover, prostitut- I hope you can give me space to en- I mp resstons-- expense. ‘ Boards: which: will enable’ you: to

ed to the interest of the superiority of a| lighten your contributor on the econ- (Contidued from page 2), Pia ee el Sa Ee R OP YS) See
mythical Nordic race, and liable to the | omic implications of sterilization as he
abuses which such a vicious illusion| presented it. was a place with long greybearded promay very well countenance in its ad-| If naiveté is delightful, it was not] fessors, and everyone lived in halls and
ministration. naive to write “the poorest and the studied the whole time trying to learn
Your contribution asserts that Neitz-| worst strata’ of society increase the} What life was all about. I can see how

Tu Quality and a
sche “carried natural selection one step |fastest’’ and stop short with sterili- foolish my ideas must have been to the E

; know, rather absent-minded, I accepted
farther by making it purposive.’’|zation as presumably, the pertinent other girls who knew the ropes,’ but teas a tack.’ Eeouliinas Sheri CIGARET TES
‘| This is far from the truth: Neitzsche |and only remedy for such a condition.| We freshettes really did believe in ideals : : ‘| SAVE THE POKER HANDS
; é , ail thas the evidence was there. What hopes
insinuated into natural selection an ar- | May one ask: ‘‘Are they poorest be- and all that OEE of thing. The older
rogance, a blindness, such a stark indivi- | cause worst; or worse because poorest ?”’ girls took me in hand and got me dates
is 5 net Pagtothall dualism that his philosophy issued, his} May one suggest that it will. be the and so on and told me how to act. I
ee BE are ioe: alt things, in supernaturalism—his| sterilization of “the poorest and worst” {$001 found out that you can’t mix

z _ Players keep fit. 1 found the answer Superman, his Zarthustra. So an- | that will be recognized asthe real econ- work and play and enjoy yourself any

° : ; .|‘‘My son!’ What disappointments
Be ogre ths otis ee I eee tipathetic was he to all utilitarian con-|omic danger by the appropriately |™ore than you can mix rum and gin cies beatcodcsadel Ppo From Freshettes
ppeete the. Murray Homestead. “Alter iaecations, to anything approaching | named “hard headed ones.” May we} @nd still keep all vour dances. Then I

ia _~ having partaken of banana cream pic,

- _ Bernie Ralston peeled off his coat and
vest, put on an apron, and helped
- Muriel wash anddry the dishes. What
ee a pee scene it was.

ee Ea -Millionaires-Boilermakers Ball and may
ROE be able to realize it. The party
a was without a doubt a great success.
- sol am told. Prot. MacDonald lookSed charming in black tuxedo—Hal
2 aa wore a pair of shoes that actu_ ally were mates—Jerrv Naugler at his]
usual place on the stage-Kevin Meagher
_ actually dancing—John Fisher helping
‘ pS - Don Sinclair direct the dance—Edythe
Nelson not saying a word—Lorne Mac-— Lellan walking off with the big prize—
Harry Herman looking embarrassed
oy. S when the checking room clerk brought
ae his coat to him upside down—The
- _ rush to Shirreff Hall before two fifteen
and back to the dance betore two
Pee gh

* _ thirty.

>. _ Observer noticed a student from
o Kings who came to the dance dressed
in very formal evening apparel and
wearing a high hat. He certainly
oS fe - looked conspicuous. Remember, the
=a ee. Ste old saying. my friend: ey a yee i
hat covers a. low brow.”

dear Lamb,

I call you my lamb because you have

 

Save all the Poker Hands you can
get and it won't take long fo secure

 

You are now a responsible individual
—at least, you are twenty-one years
old to-day. How well I remember the
day when the nurse brought you, a
squalling, red-faced infant, to me and

said, ‘‘Your son’! Being, as you

  

Ci,

There i is always a great deal of oe

3 Pe: - ter about football players keeping in
a condition by doing manual labor. I

for your future accomplishments arose Poker Hands are also packed with Turret
in mv breast as I gazed at you the im- Pipe Tobacco and Turret Cigarette Tobacco.

’
age of myself, especially the teeth and| Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd.
hair, and murniured softly and proudly,

 

 

i found out that 6st ‘ Shakespeare once said, “‘The evil
hedonism, that he veered savagely |ask the unemployment figures from the |OUNC OU at one month of studying ond idiaa tall Fives laciar sRawte ihe Wiad Gobes ba a Bootball Bag.

over the precipice of sadism and, hang-| Canada Year Book, 1933? For, al-| Will get you through all the exams so}; oe nidren who reap the benefit| A Freshette was recently heard to
ing between heaven andearth, coniirred| though Mr. Eddington has been run everything worked in beautifully. Ot et their Lite Faeurance r So it has | ask if the man who wrote the song from
Zarathusted to ease his fall. Itisnot a] away with by the clergy, we may not, | COUrSe ae bes ite re said rons bee’ With mei eter © Hikes ‘i which the above words. were. quoted
happy picture, this avowed naturalist | tempting him with a body-guard anda | W© Came to College just to get married, | epee _|ever went to Dalhousie. But that is
oad pe the ranks of the enemy.|sugar plum, prevail upon him to rein-| but that was ‘ust meanness on their Se he tases Mee en all right, Freshettes are green anywav.
But it is understandable. stitute Cause and Effect for one fleet- part—not that we weren't interested Ver have been ‘ good son in so far| It is perfectly obvious that he never
- The clumbsy god Chance wasfast on| ing moment. in arp because it is hard not to be as you have obeyed the Command-| did, probably he never heard of Dalthe heels of Darwin's principle of na-| It is questionable whether the “‘law here with SO! MARY good-looking ones] Rentiof “Gave tle. (otha in tbe dave housie. Numierous Dal men sing this
tural selection asit picked its supposed- | of selection’ is so dogmatically equiva- around, but it wassort of different with of'thy youth at College: that thie cheque lyric, yet apparently none of them
ly precise, if bloody, steps up the cor-|lent to the “law of development’”’ as )™€ anyway, because about two weeks which Hie. selidath shall suffice all thy | Understand it, or, if they do they are
o ridors of Time. And there were doubt- | your contributor would have us believe. after I came here [met Jimmy. He needa?" 7 unwilling to take the author’s word in
less many missteps and stumbles be-| Pigsare bred carefully that they slaught * pretty prominent here’ at-college, po you are a man, and I would | the. matter. Perhaps this is just as
cause of this irresponsible rogue’s cap-| to best advantage. Some law of di- secretary of a lot of things and speaks charge you to put pats all childish | Well as a certain member of the co-eds
ers, Then with the emergence of that| rection might well be expounded first!|to all sorts of people and is the intel- things such as I have noticed in the|Teauire some loving.
quality of organic matter named Mind,| We recommend to your contributor ieee aie ere Saar be He Eee over past few years, such things as “blind
\another qualification of the law that} a study of Karl Marx, the first man to Shing and all-sorts of places to go and dates.” lon diives at night dirty jokes} | We wonder what the campus heroes
“those who sufvive are the fittest’’| apply scientific evolutionary principles|*USt What to say and he’s just a scream saleoeee ay acer tiat rok heard.’’| would say if they were told that eight
becomes operative. For Mind, scorn-| to social life and who wrote, apropos when he says ‘He's got what it takes.’ weaned avheatd? sandal other syeiexiie normally intelligent and discerning
ing a cognitive and directive role,| christian sympathy: ‘Criticism (of We are Gort of engaged, that is I wear et Ce itiene I realize that you | Women vainlv spent over. three hours
chose to consolidate, to iustify a fatt| religion) has torn away the imaginary his ‘cpagoaes we at Wer pn peeee mor have aubsittiites or you wrill be- trying to list five eligible males attendaccompli. Here we have the beginning | flowers with which his chains were be- but we aren't going to announce it just céinb staleand aiale Ke- able to kev ing Dalhousie. Two were mentioned
of morality and, later, the stimulus to| decked, not in order that man should] YC: Of course I was pretty put out vane “tine” up to date. Intheirstead, | but were not agreed on by all. Let
class distinctions by the association of | wear his chains without the comfort of when he returned the pin after the pice gb tte aii ae that veh ses aid the afore-mentioned males cap that if
whose moralities, rising out of anidenti-| illusions, but that he may throw off|Cht istmas vacation with a bit of pink oe parte ae de de aa road or| they can. We have heard their opty of interest, happened to coincide. | the chainsand pluck the living flowers.” wool on it, because I just can’t stand inion of the women often enough but

near the sea—both are romantic and
It was against the decadence inherent}|Some bold ones even suggest that girls who we pink eWeeeEee es but then soci _, chearicarhimasbebier accel we defy them to équal that.
in this consolidatory function of mind| Christian sympathy is not the same as I don't believe in petty jealousies. 8

: “tyes arate rede wa a hit| for a quick getaway if someone comes,
that Neitzsche raised his voice. It] Christ’s sympathy. The Christmas examinations were a bit I would| When you do get married, by all

 
 

  

 
 

a Well, at last I actually received a
Ss, r from one of the boys. It isn’t
ca actly complimentary but still I am
_ ! rd to see someone showing enough

; interest to rete

  

  

>; ne

 

‘ Sw few, It eg

 

 

e ‘Well, last eeck i aa iust before
_ I went to bed. Well, its a good thing
_ I did. I decided, after a refreshing
_ rest, to rid myself of my Baird. I lett
re - the Tapp running while I collected my
shaving gear.. This task only took ten
. minutes, but when I came back the
- water for my Beth had overflowed and
there was no room for me in the tub.
The Cooke rang the Bell for Supper, so

 
 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

  

I i ; | , i as you have probably found. !
_I gave up the idea of bathing and went de his relusal to pecopnize the" fact Thank you for the space. harder than I thought, so I’ve really Pies aenth | uate the. inseilectual

__._ downstairs. The soup began to Byrne : : ot to do.an awful lot of workthis term; | 4/89 suggest that you make up your °
. that Mind could also emancipate, to g ; “ol 4) tty ‘ es43 type of girl—they can’t adjust them
. my tongue, the potatoes were Brown . : . I’ve started already and feel awfully | OW% JOXeS an MS) S00 a: FEPUTaTiO iy

: *) concern himself with the problems pre- Sincerely V y eel awiully . ; tod aanuete 35) the front sent of ao
ne cae and then I got the next Corston my ; . ; sort of good about it getting going so for wit an.ong your friends, and sub- property, 2m ae
sented by men in mass, that forced him An Ex-student. g g§ going stitute a moustache for the beard-—| Cat, so there’s no fear of you doing

  

soon, but I thought my real purpose | °** ; ;
in coming to college was to fit myself it is not so romantic and does not give

for my after life, so I asked Doris to YOU the appearance ot a sheik, but it

; eople think that you can afford to do
° l l make me a catbon copy of her notes as its advantages and possibilities of | PeOPIc © : ear
rts asre a ti ; t With a little |it- Besides, this type would rather
when she types the ones she’s going to | BECTACHINE, WOMEN, t00- oe : : . +s
be in the kitchen than in the living
S h d / borrow from Ruth. In closine I just | Practise you will be able to develop the , *

cneaute want to say that I think sales for |foppish expression that goes so well) FOO?! oa eee a Heeome
irls is simply the thing, and every fam- | With a tew hairs on the lip and which | !onely ans = SUE Oe: SOE
. 8 Bus any, which, if your wife doesn’t mind, *

: : veer the women adore.
ily owes it to its girls to send them, for ; : ‘i lout £2 ;
there is nothing quite like it just orliet Our next thought will be of mar-|'* ai Sy eee

they need for something or other, be- , T@8*, which is perhaps the greatest il hae in oe. Oot a 7
cause the day is gone when women have , Pastime a man may have—if he goes ze 3 * ce yw Se ie. Aion
to sit around not thinking for them- | #bout it properly. : ae ? a — a os aoe Tea
selves, and to-day girls should all do| By © means wait until you can sup- | nie te ae =r ined
everything they can to improve them- | Port a wife. Get married as’ soon as} “@tier, marty = ears ae
; : selves and cultivate their minds and| You can and move in with your niother pared EnpeoF pee eis aps =

In the Halifax City League games ibe thst ploes iti the Scheedsatie Rings and me—we'd love to see what. taste |Soon tire of you and will willingly arboy's rules will be played. The first ie ta ce dae T ve 8 you havein §. A, and curves. Perhapsa | Tange a scandal or intrigue to get a
game will be to-night—(Jan. 25) when ee ee ars better idea would be for me to send you divorce. In this way you can have a

i 3 vest. Boy, was I Cross. Dane, I
- decided to go to the hockey game. I
‘ ~ — settled myself on a Street car néxt to a
- Young Mahon. He introduced him
Fe self and I asked hin’ what his name was
2 4 and he replied Donahoe. I said, “I Delta Gamma

_ know your first name is Dona but what

his your last name. He gave me the Feb. 28th.

game answer and I knew we Jost

 gouldn’t get along. I arrived at the

-. Foran and after secing the game for

fifteen Se ea: I decided that it was| Gamma dance on February 28th.
in the Bagg and left. 1 began to see Some one even went so far as to sug
Pink, Brown Black and Green and| $°st the 29th. Bright suggestion but

Weitz at the same time. Wiesel faced| NOt Very helpful.

a ae taxi driver came up-to me and said| Once again we are going to the Nova
, . ei. she going, Can I take you Scotian with Jerry to supply the music.
ct somewhere.” I said ‘Take me home, | No frills or furbelows, just a good old
- -—s«Y. want’ to study my Embree ology.’’| fashioned dance put on by the retiring

that. Don’t marry a good cook—it
is much better to eat in hotelsand make

 

 

  

 
 

 
 

The schedule has been set for the
Maritime Girl’s Intercollegiate League
games. Girl’s rules will be played.
The schedule is as follows:

Feb, 16—Dal at Mt. Allison.

Feb. 23—Acadia at Dal.

Mar. 9—Dal at Acadia.

Mar 16—Mt,A at Dal.

  

After much haggling and arguing
it was finally decided to hold the Delta

    
    
       
       
        
    
      
   
 
 
 
  
   
 

 
 

  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

ea He started to drive me the wrong Fay females. Dal will play H. L. A. C, at St. Mary’s Tha -Intiestat Byseandes. abroad—no, not the kind’ you mean, I| 2&W model each bap lascobictins of keeping
BE so I said “You oldGeizer, youGraven Want to come? Well get busy. Gym. ; should have said, let you travel. It the old one in the family for a couple
Bee sense if you don’t turn around ri s might happen that you could pick up| of generations.

an heiress, you’ve had enough practise} With such a parting thought I'll
A certain Freshette at the Hall re- in picking up everything but your| Wish you a very happy birthday and

—— quests that all her admirers do not,call clothes that an heiress should be easy hope that my advice is taken seriously.
BIRKS her at the same time. After all there| to acquire. This would save me the Incidentially, your account is, overare only two phones and she has only | expense of caring for you for the rest drawn, as usual.
four nights out a week. of my life and then letting you go to As man to man,

For Dance Favors, die onttiahiads Your Father.

Of Course ,
As quantities are not always °
se ee aeeda me Capital Beauty Salon
advise forehandedness in order- CMasaLansse Shea)

ing. Our co-operation with committees isour pleasure, and yours Our ultra-moderne Hair Styles create enthusiasmamong the smart set
to command. Facials - Manicuring - Haircutting

Henry Birks & Sons Dyeing - cee - Finger eae

Permanent Waving - Marcel Waving

  

- Harnish you to the first tree I see.’

° ie drove up a long Hii] and it looked
very Muich as if he wanted to Klein
_ me first. I made him stop on the first
_ Corner. After he drove off, I began
Cirsthen him for all I was worth.
“ty yore I looked around, I found myself
on Maynard Street. A colored boy
é Sits up to me and said ‘‘Have you
; us ieee Montgomerie” and I replied that}
ae didn’t know her. He said it was his
_ cat he was looking for, I began to]
Pace “we and down—Muir next week.

 

  
  
 

  
   
  

 

JOHN TOBIN & CO

LIMITED

 

  
   
     
 
    
  
   
 

  

 
 

    
 
  
 

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

 
    
   
 

Wholesale Grocers
Tea Merchants

       

>

p Cs a
4 4) Ep eal at

dF

DRUGGIST

 

sLIFAX TAXI co. |

4 Limited
, Capitol Theatre Building - Halifax, N.S.
. DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Telephone B. 6976 HALIFAX and BEDFORD

Halifax, N. S.

 

a
id ae
ius

 
    
     
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE January 26th, 1934

IN FIRST GAME 3-1

Boxing Tourney |Dal Cubs Tie

 

DEFEAT KING'S

-|Tigers Win

a

  

 

 

_ Wanderer’s Win First Game/ SPORT

, a
5 “a

 
 

 

With a thrilling four point really in
the last minute of play that fell two
‘points short of victory the Dalhousie
Tigers dropped the city league opener
to the Halifax Wanderers by a 28-27
decision. The blackshirts led throughout the initial period only to see the
score tied up at the opening of the final
half and the redshirts maintain a slight
edge until the final whistle blew. The
game provided breathtaking thrills
for a capacity crowd and topped off the
evening with a sensational climax in
the form ot a last second long shot by

Don Bauld that fell one point short of

“Bounding Bevil’’ Piers, Wanderers
scoring ace, to a total of 6 points, and
chucking in the highest count of the
game, 12 points. Bob Goudey, exAcadia star, was the big scoring threat
for the Reds throwing in 10 points.
Bernie Ralston was effectively held
scoreless by Captain Bev Piers and Big
Bill Gladstone was also kept out of the
tally column by the sharp guarding of
the Reds. Captain Anderson and Mit
Musgrave had a great night on the defense and accounted for 11 points between them. Sam Fairstein when
rushed into the fray returned to his old

niarked up another only to see the Red’s
tie it up and take a lead of 24-17.
Under the cool leadership of Charlie
Anderson the collegians steadied down
and came within one point of the
baskets by Fairstein and one by Musgrave from center floor. Score by
Goudey and Kerr again put the Reds
5 points up with only three minutes
togo. Doug Crease held Bob Goudey
from further scoring and then the Tigers started their fighting rally in a dramatic. finish. Anderson got two free
throws and in the pinch made them
both good. The Reds stalled the ball

sphere behind center floor and asit left
his hands the final whistle blew but the
ball swished through the cords. Wanderers 28-Dalhousic 27. Coach Thomas
is naturally disappointed over such a
tough loss but is more determined than
ever to set the Reds back on Dalhousie
territory.

DALHOUSIE:—Bauld 12, Ralston,
D. Crease, T. Creasé, Gladstone, Fairstein 4, Anderson (capt) 5, Musgrave
§, Miller, Total 27.

WANDERERS:—Oxley 1, Goudey
10, Young 6, Harris, Piers 6, Grant,
Kerr 5. Total 28.

 

| received a great many letters last
week commenting on my idea fora rink.
The girls are not going to have a hockey
team so lets have a rink. If King’s
can do it, surely we can.

Yet Ted Crease says (and a
whole lot more) “‘if Dal ever has
a rink I’ll eat my shirt, hat,
overshoes etc.,’’ there seems to
be a lack of interest, spirit, or

something around this ‘‘cam
The Dal-Reds game at the Y was
certainly a thriller. Dal were trailing
by 5 points (28-23) with about a minute to go. Two penalty shots by
Charlie Anderson and a nice field goal
by Don Bauld brought the score up to
28-27 and provided a thrilling finish.

Harry Butler, referee in the
M. H. L. was out with the hock
squad last week giving

|
|

First Game
Over Kings

In a closely contested Intercollegiate
hockey feature, Dal Tigers nosed out
King’s College at the Forum Tuesday
night by a score of 3 to1. The game,
which was attended by only a small
crowd of fans, was fast in spots, ragged
in spots, but fairly fast throughout.

Dal took an early lead in the first
period when Buckley and Connor rapped in two goals, while the King’s men
were two men short, but from that

Midway through the second period,
Buckley put Dal one more up when he
solved his way through to the King’s
goal,

In the third the King’s men had the
edge, with The blue and whites trying
hard for a score. ‘‘Chick’’ Fry slammed in the rubber for King’s only score
of the night, and though the King's
team came close to scoring several times
the Dal team put up a fine defensive
game to stave off their efforts.

Buckley, Cooke and Connor were the
pick of the Dal team, while ‘‘Chick’’
Fry and ‘‘Monk”’ Smith turned in the

of Season by 1 Point Margin COMMENT At Gym Feb. 8

——e

 

The Interfaculty Boxing Tournament will be held in the Gymnasium
on Thursday, Feb. 8th, at 8 P. M.
All those wishing to take part in this
event, which will be the first Interfaculty Boxing Meet ever held at Dalhousie, please have your entries in to
Mr. Stirling, not later than 12 noon on
Sat. Feb. 8rd. Interfaculty Boxing
Managers please note.

It is the hope of the Managemen
that this will be the biggest event of its
kind ever held at Dalhousie. It wil
not be a bloody slaughter, but one of
the finest displays of scientific boxing
ever presented to the student body.

‘ tying the score. The same Don Bauld| while Dal tried desperately to get po-| pus.” RATRMINSEEE LHENEA. Ok tobe k bakéie The team which will represent the
i was the star of the match, keeping|session. Don Bauld grabbed the ; , _.,.,'| College at the Intercollegiate Tourna
ment, to be held in March, will be selected as a result of the Interfaculty
Meet.

COME ON MEN.
YOUR ENTRIES.

 

Arts Wins Opener
Over Meds 2-1

_ i iil

For Lead In
Basketball

By virtue of two straight wins in
the City Intermediate league over
Kings College and the Wanderers the
Dalhousie Cubs are tied for leadership
with Saint Andrews. In a last period
rally the Cubs won over Kings with 13

t points to spare but in Saturday’s tus
sle with the Wanderers they grabbed

|| an early lead which they increased as

the game went on to win handily by a
43-10 score.

DALHOUSIE 30-KINGS 17.
The Dal-King’s tussle last Thursday

was a ragged game featured by poor
passing and lousy shoocing. Kings,

LET’S HAVE chiefly because they passed circles

around the collegians from Studley,
led at the end of the first half by a
count of 12-9. At the opening of the
final frame Dalhousie hit their stride
while the Kings lads tired rapidly and
the former tied up the score and took a
big lead, the final tally being 30-17.
Bord Stoddard did most of Dal’s scor
In the opening game of the Inter- ing and netted 16 points. Leo SimAr fees © KG sie axy 2 > atra - +
faculty Hockey League played at the monds, freshman guard, shone on the

Forum last Thursday
Meds 2-1.

Arts defeated] defense and turned in a really sparkling

' ; oy: best performance for King’s, The performance.
form and netted 4 points when the Tig- zi = the boysa few pointers. Com- line-ups: The game was featured by the fast DAL: Sullivan 7, Stoddard 16.
tee ene) Fe wora heart. Shirreff Hall petition is keen for the posi- KINGS:—Goal, H. Prat; defence, | Skating and brilliant stick-handling of] Rosner, MacDonald (capt) 4, Green,

breaking game to lose but far different
from the 14 points margin the Reds
swamped Dal by last year on the same
floor. The Tigers need every game
now in order to cop this year’s title.
They have a good chance to do it now
‘that their hardest game is behind them.

) DAL TAKES EARLY LEAD.

The Tigers opened up the scoring
shortly after the opening whistle with

_ two nice baskets by Don Bauld from

close in, The Reds counted on two foul
shots and then within ten minutes the
Blackshirts ran upa12-2lead. Forthe
rest of the frame, the Wanderers monopolized the scoring while Dal’s only
tally came. asthe result of a foul goal.
The period ended with the Tigers on
the long end of a 13-9 count. Gladstone was handing out some tricky
passes to his forwards that had the opposition fooled and Musgrave threw
two rebounds through the hoop from
difficult positions. Captain Anderson
made a sensational long shot from
center floor that took the spectator’s

Notes

Jo Cox of New Glasgow was visiting
her sisters Isabel and Edith at the hall
this week.

—

Kay Henderson of Truro was the
guest of Kay Moxon over the week
end,

Betty Parker of Syney was the guest
of Con Mackie and Marion Findlay.

Miss Catherine Milson a member of
the Red Cord Girl Guides of Scotland
was a guest of Miss MacKeen for Sunday dinner.

Ses ec an

tions and if enough turn out a
second team will be formed.

The Dalhousie Girls play their first
basketball game the 16th of February
in the Intercollegiate League. The
turnouts have not been large but the
“Parson” promises a snappy tean:.
Boys’ rules will be used, which should
prove an advantage to the Keniston
sisters.

Do you know—

Bill Gladstone eats grapefruit between periods of a
basketball game—

Bernie Ralston keeps in
training by drying dishes for
Muriel—

Bobbie Donahoe can’t take
it as he demonstrated in a
hockey game last week—

Ted Crease’s house-league
basketball team has challenged

Carr, Harris, Graven, C.
wards, R. Fry, Smith, C.
Duchemin, Veinotte.

DALHOUSIE:—Goal, Kyte; defence, Connor, Bent; forwards, Ellis,
Cooke, Bryant; Cohen, Buckley, Crosby.

Harry Butler refereed.

Prat; for:
Fry, Baird,

 

Arts Theology
Win in Softball

Arts defeated Medicine in the Gyn:,
Monday Night by a score of 7-1.
Gouin’s sensational hurling was as
usual a feature of the game. Granting
but 3 hits and turning away 13 via the
strike-out route is no mean job. Young
on the slab for the Meds pitched fine
ball with the exception of the fourth
inning when he was touched for 4 runs.

Theology won the second game of the

both teams. Trailing by a goal at the] Simmonds 2. Dubilier, Gaum.,
f the first canto the Arts| 99.

end foend
turned on the steam to net two goals
and the game.

The first chapter opened with
both  sextets playing a semi-game
Donahoe flashy winger for the Meds
broke through for several hard shots
which Garten in the nets handled
carefully.

Total
KINGS: Hutchins 5, Muggah 8,

Faigweather, Teed, Archibald, Regan 2,

Dorman (capt.) 2. Total 17.

DALHOUSIE 43—-WANDERERS 10.

Saturday night’s game was too one
sided to be very interesting. Play

The first score came as a result of a opened with the Reds playing cautious
combination play by Donahoe and

ly but Dal started fast and Sullivan.and

Young. The Artsmen led by Bing) MacDonald pierced their defense for

Crosby tried hard to score but failed | two quick baskets. The

Wanderers

due to the superb net-minding of Bob began to play five men up the floor and

Begg.

were Caught three times for as many

The second frame opened fast with | scores on Jong heaves from Stoddard

“Pop” Ryan, Don Christie and Russ| or Captain

MacLennan
Medicine.
combined for several dangerous rushe¢s.

leading the parade for

The game was getting slightly rough up an

Healy. and Bing Crosby |91-4 score.

MacDonald. The - first
half ended with Dal on the long end ot a
In the next period Dal
continued her scoring streak and threw
almost impregnable man to man

at this point but Referee Bent had| defense to hold the opposition to a

everything under control.

‘“‘Jo-jo’’ Fergusson

scant 6 points. MacDonald

Roy

and Cameron} counted 13 points for Dal and Sullivan
opened the scoring for Arts on a nice| 19.

We're beginning to think the

combination play, Fergusson netting Simmonds is hot stuff for he turned in

the twines.

Donahoe and Cameron] another great

2e 4 ‘ >venine -featine Fr ' 5) aA te performance Saturday

breath away. ft A new club has been formed at ‘“‘Lolly’? Sullivan’s team for a Ee ae By, Shelacok dropped sticks of this point and night. (Don’t let it go to your head
Studley. An seen ECE will be the championship— o a, Ne eae ea slab for the threatened to mix things, but Referee] Leo.)

RALLIES FALL SHORT. made next week. Don Stewart was Bord Stoddard is showing rosh proved easy meat f or the Theo- Bent handled the situation capably.}| DALHOUSIE: Sullivan 10. Ros

The Wanderers came out fighting

elected Honorary President. Laurie

Hart vice president. Florence Keniston,

fine form with the Intercol
logs while ‘‘Parson’’ Anderson had the
-Frosh well under control.

/ : my ieee ~ ~ a, ty; > ‘9 ~ 2 € ™
A minute later Crosby combined with ner, Stoddard 6, MacDonald 138, Green

legiates despite the fact he Cameron to score the winning gox $i ‘li :
: ‘ ‘ ; i ; . : re MY) the bays ame sc ; g goal.|2, Simmonds 8, Dubilier 4, Gaum.
and in a minute tied up the score with} Sec’y. Edith Blair and Edythe Nelson broke training the night of ; Arts by virsue of their win qualified This was the nicest play of the game a] Total 43
: two baskets by Young and Piers. Dal} have filed papers for admittance. Jan. 19th. jfor the final in which they meet the] pewilderine forward pass attack being WANDERERS: D pn Wats
winner of the Law-Theology tussle, . * any IND >—Voane 1, Creigh
 

  

A ‘‘Good Looking”’ Hat
The 6alfonia

 

&T. EAT

Men’s Bika: Socks

A popular line that offers a good selection of patterns:
knitted of all wool yarns and made in England.

Pair $1.00

EATON’S Main Floor

MARITIM

 

    
         

Good looking..that’s a man’s compliment to a hat that looks as
though it was made for the head
that carries it. That's because
EATONIA offers such a tine
selection of styles and sizes that
most normal-shaped heads can
be correctly fitted. EATONIA
hats have balance, which is the
essence of style—whether you
choose a snap, roll or a Homburg.
Greys, fawns and browns. All

Sizes.
Each

4.50

EATON’S Main Floor

     
 
      
 
       
     
     
   
     
        
       
   
   
  
     
  
 

  
 
    
  

LIMITED

    

2

 

“Pin some romance to the
melody of ‘‘The Old Spinning
Wheel”’ played as only Nauglers
Music Masters can play.”’

CALL JERRY L9238

 

 

 

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

 

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year

 

IMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per Ib
FLAT PIECES 7c. per Ib.
Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough

for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

| L 2300
Halifax Steam Laundry

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES

IN
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

Teo Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholaiships of $75.00 each.
Write or call for Calendar or advise.

 

      
    
      
   
 

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

CASINO

Wed-Thur-Fri
January 24-25-26

“AFTER
TONIGHT”

—with—
CONSTANCE BENNETT

GILBERT ROLAND
Coming Soon!

EDDIE CANTOR

ih

‘Roman Scandals”

  

 

 

 

 

    
 

   
   
   
 

 
    
  

 
    
    
   
    

    
  
  

     

used

ton 2, Webb 5, Francis Hession, Mahar.

For the rest of the game the Artsn:en! Mitchell, 1, Manni. Total 10.
were content to lay back and use a de- | ———————_—__—______

fensive system sin.ilar to that used by
the Moncton Hawks.

Ryan, MacLennan and Donahoe
were the pick of the Meds while Crosby,

—__—— | Healy and Fergusson were outstanding

  

NICKERSON & CREASE

Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

  
  

 

 

 

Halifax Transfer

PHONE 8.7138

 

   
  
 
 
 
 

SAT~Mon-Tues.

‘FALLING FOR
YOU’
JACK
HULBERT
CICELY

COURTNEIDGE
A BRITISH PICTURE

  

 

for Arts.
eree.

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

Doug Bent acted as ref
 

 

 

 

 

GARRICK

Balance of this week
Year’s most Extraordinary

Picture

CHARLES

LAUGHTON

shel

PRIVATE LIFE OF

HENRY VIII

 

 
