Ps
ag A.

P wags
< oom

    
  
  

»s

a oh .
i.

  

Ret w S
>. £ <a .
7

eo."

.
+ wk

   
   
    
    
  
  
  
 
  

    
  

Sal ‘ b
J a < } 7
* 7 a
Par ce Z
AE VOt I.
i See tee
~ C ‘ Z s
;

as
ad Seine
eT ee elt Bs, Joe
i) r *S in, ee 4 > ’ Alb

;
py

. Alberta. These two universities two
thousand miles apart, will engage in a

wf The Gazette will announce in its next
= 7 Issue to whom falls the honour of re
—

_ Alberta’s leader will begin the debate.

When the ‘“‘speech”” reaches Dalhousie,

both papers will print it.
a return speech, which will in turn appear

+ in the two papers.

- debater replies. Then the second Dal
~ . id 7
=
Se ms

earn”
ers

Seaaee ts e
ies a /

-- and Prof. Gowanloch

_ Dents a strong _team. é

o
Page to get ey Ee

HT

4
3

   

ot ae oleae eee | é HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 4th 1926

    

  
  
 

ra
ay

     
   
   
  
 
    
  
    
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  

 

a,

   

Dalhousie will Debate,
Ce a hale a yerta

ie ‘Stage Novel Contest

@ fillessage of Welcome to New Students

 
    

an a aay 3

 

"In November Dalhousie will debate

novel contest—a correspondence debate.

OR the sixty fourth time in succession since her reorganization in 1863
Fr Dalhousie opens her doors to greet again the old students and welcome
the new. At each spring convocation we feel that the University cannot
be quite the same again after the departure of so many students who have lived
up to her traditions so well and have become part and parcel of her life. Yet,
when registration week comes round each fall and we scan the throng of the
hundreds of new faces who come to offer themselves to replace the old, we never
fail to have the same feeling of relief and satisfaction come to us and to be able
to say to ourselves—it is the good old Dalhousie Breed, our honour and reputation
will be safe in their hands. It is Dalhousie’s greatest pride that she can draw
this kind to her halls. So, in the name of the University, I welcome warmly each
new Dalhousian, and wish and hope that his stay may be profitable and happy.

yresenting Dalhousie. The subject will
fecomte ory lecture attendance.
_ On each team there will be two debaters
_-—probably, though not necessarily a
woman and a man—who- combine
“debating ability and journalistic skill’.
The resolution will be to this effect:
That compulsory attendance at university
lectures is in the best interests of the
student body. Dalhousie will have the
“negative.
_ The speeches will appear simult aneously in the Gateway—University of
Alberta publication—and the Gazette.

vs

May I say to the new student that at no period of his career will life hold
so many possibilities for real happiness as during his student days; they may be
made the halcyon days of life: By happiness I do not mean mere recreation or
empty pleasure. The University assumes that you have come to her in order to
profit by the academic opportunities she offers. The student who combines his
academic and non-academic activities in the proper proportions will get the most
out of his stay and be the farthest on the road to true happiness and of the most
value to his fellow men. i

ha
Lie a) 5 Ge : 2 Ribera oY
«
*

Dalhousie University,
September 28, 1926.

Dalhousie's
leader will have two days to mail Alberta

The second Alberta

 
  
 
  

  

n. The Dalhousie rebuttal will
Alberta’s rebuttal will complete
ebate. The judges, who will prob
    

  

editors of the Canadian college

1s, will then give their decision.
extends to all its readers a
ion to be present. ia

      
  
   
    

    

“a 5 age ea ade Oy _
hee ii a
- ; *

- Gazette will Award
_ Regular Prizes

We take pleasure in announcing regular
Gazette prizes for writing English.
_ Prof. C. L. Bennet, Mr. Arthur L. Murphy
last year’s editor and second year medical,
have consented
The prizes will take |—

President.

 
      
 

 

 
 
   
 

 

to act as judges.
the form of books.

 

   

The following regulations will govern
their award:

       
    

1. The Gazette will give one verse
and two prose prizes at the completion
of each group of four issues. Thus there
will be. five competitions—fifteen prizes
in all. The announcement of winners
will appear in the fifth, ninth, thirteenth,
seventeenth, and twentieth Gazettes.

2. The prizes will go to the best
contributions. ‘‘Best’’ is to mean of
most value to the Gazette. A contribution of much interest to many students would be very valuable to the Gazette; you can see the ‘‘headstart’”’ which
that gives to humour. On the other
hand a_ contribution which interests
only a few, might merit a prize. Whatever you submit for publication the
Gazette will consider an entry. It may
be the account of a basket-ball game, or
an ode to immortality. It is no difference—the only qualification is that it be
English.

3. The competition is open to every
student except the editor.

   

ALUMNI ATTENTION

 
     
     
 

The last (March) issue of your paper—The Dalhousie Alumni News—dealt almost entirely with undergraduate
life and problems. Two writers concerned themselves particularly with certain undergraduate disaffections. They and all
other alumni will rejoice to hear that undergraduates see no cause for alarm.

 
      
 
   
 

This issue of the News, including these two letters, is significant to the Gazette.

It assures us of the Alumni’s
interest in the undergraduate.

 
   
   
 

One of Alumni’s most important functions, we believe, is looking after the students’ interests, which are the
interests of the University.

 
   
    

__ One of the Gazette’s most important functions, we believe, is to render the Alumni an accurate account of undergraduate life.

 
   
   
 

The Gazette without the Alumni has no root; the Alumni without the Gazette has no fruit.

  
  

.

 
 

Please fill in the attached blank.

 
 
     

The Gazette will appear, after the
present number, Thursday forenoon as
usual and in its usual form—four pages.
If you want space in a particular Gazette
you should submit your contributions
early—Thursday of the week before if
possible. Notices or announcements, if
you give them or telephone them to one

_of the editors personally, we will do our
best to insert so late as Tuesday.

The Gazette asks those who are in
terested in reporting to please drop
their names in one of the Gazette boxes.

SUBSCRIPTION FORM.

Annual Subscription $1.00

 

T HE? DAL HOUSIE GAZETTE,
Halifax, Nova Scotia.

erremeitbe tRNAs saNi Ce ren es ee te en Oe so eee Sa eee ae being my subscription to

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE for... 2...

3£),. Years.

Dents Elect Omer Taylor

At 4 meeting of the Dental Society Ee a seth eerie a
held Saturday, September 18th, Mr,
Omer Taylor of Glace Bay was elected NAdrens

to preside over the destinies of the Dental
entry in the Interfaculty Football League.
It is probable that the Pharmacy
students -will combine with Dentistry
this year which with the influx of new
talent in the faculty, should give the

  
  

      

CU a

ELUM

    

/
é

 

 

    

First Day of Lectures in Arts and Science

ME TO DALHOUSIE!

 

 

Cambridge Team to
Debate Dal

Sodales Plans Bis Year

The debating society is looking forward
to a very successful season. Most of our
old debaters are returning. Men who
have not previously debated are showing
an interest from which a regular attendance at Sodales may be prophes'ed. It is
said that there is some excellent material
in the freshman class.

The imperial debaters are visiting
Dalhousie early this year. A team from
Cqmbridge University will be here about
the latter part of November. Previous
visits of the Imperial debaters have
aroused greatyinterest; and no doubt the
same will be taken this year. The subjects which have been submitted are as
follows: 
(1) That the study of Latin and Greek
in English and American colleges
should be abolished. (Cambridge
negative.)
(2) That this house opposes the growing
tendency of Government to invade the
rights of individuals. (Cambridge
negative.)

(3) That this house regrets the large
part played by Advertising in modern
life. (Cambridge affirmative.)

The second subject is likely to be the
subject for trial debates.

 

A meeting of Sodales will shortly be
called to consider matters in reference
to this debate and also other business.
All members of the University interested
in debating are urged not to miss this
meeting. A very cordial welcome is
extended to first year students.

Glee Club President

Does not Return

Students will learn with regret that
Gordon Graham, President of the Glee
Club, has decided not to return this year.
Glee Club goers—practically the whole
college last year— particularly will be
disappointed, for Dalhousie expected the
Glee Club in his hands to repeat its
success of last year. Graham’s absence
will involve the election of a new president. Those responsible will do well to
look after this at once.

Graham belongs to Law '28. Another
year we hope he will be again with us.

Gentlemen—the Coach

In signing Mr. C. R. Chipman, of this
city as coach for this year’s Football
Team the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic
Club made a choice that will go far to
stimulate interest and hopes in the
League games this year.

Mr. Chipman is best remembered as
Coach of the 1923 Champion Team which,
if memory serves right, was only scored
on once all year—a drop-kick by Ritchie
McCoy of the Wanderers ruining an
otherwise perfect record. The team of
that year made an enviable record in the
City League games and ended by handing
the St. F. X. Team, Intercollegiate
champions of that year, a 32—0 defeat.

Dalhousie has not been so successful
in football of late years but with the
event of Mr. Chipman we once more
hope to see those halycon days of 1°23
repeated.

We congratulate the D. A. A. C. on
securing Mr. Chipman—and, if we may
be pardoned for lack of seeming modesty,
we also congratulate Mr. Chipman.

No word has come to Dalhousie about
the proposed conference of Canadian
colleges. to consider the formation of a
National Student Union. Students will
remember that the Council appointed
Fred MaclInnes to represent Dalhousie
if the Conference should materialize,
The imperial debaters who visited Canada last year were responsible for starting
this movement.

 
   

Bee ee oe BREDA WINEIBED 0508
cee, eee ERO RW Mie pemease
Gr 2f << HERBERT DAVIDSON

~ > L -.
et a Ae
- te ial

   
  
 
 
  

   

    

 
  
   

« ~ ee

ie ae ee s . apt ap As Sy ig ; ols peionee ner moe ae

5 Business Manager, pine
"J, J. LYSONS ATWOOD 2

Brae iad 2p HOMES 2995 oc.

a s+

 
     
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
      
  

> s Mey a
oki Frey ; Fh:
anaes ~ Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year.

Aas seks
>


"

of

~~ a et cote

Pe a ee eS,

 -Fresnman

oe x a BALBACAELZ ©

he CEP a hg - e :
as ~ :

= ft * ’ —
a x

ve atrived. Dalhousie has been expecting you, though you may

il this very fall that you were coming, for over an hundred years.

ime we have been getting ready—-gathering an increasing variety of minds
; ish against, struggling to be able to accomodate you, building the
whom we owe the advantages you will enjoy. Look about you—go down
and P where Dalhousie modestly began, visit the old Forrest Building,
il used the whole university, see the thousands of books

   

* Sin x

z

last you hax
known unt

     
  
   
    
  
     
  

la few years ago housed the whole unive * :
rary: everywhere you will find the results of sacrifice and struggle. And
yu! «Will you justify Dalhousie’s expectations? Will you realize your
Will you accept: the challenge?

lad time. You who come now take the
Seas g

    
   
   
      
  
 
 
 
  
     

 
 

places of those who ‘‘with
ingled feelin joy and sorrow’’—-to use the words of Class Day orators—left
in the spring. Unlike Convocation the fall opening is a wholly joyous occasion—
| the freshman is the man of the hour.
intil the: sophomores have welcomed you, the rest of us haveto stand by.
hen they have done, we sal be apt to forget that we should go out of our way
to make your acquaintance. You may find the burden of making friends thrust
on you. ee ai enjoyable task: accept it gladly.
- The Gazette wants to help you. This issue, of which you are the reader of
nour, is an attempt to put you upon your feet and to help you begin college right
be worth saving: first, it will serve as a Dalhousie guidebook; second, it conmuch advice—at once poor stuff and what you will get most of in the next few
You will have no use for advice until questions arise in your mind—it then
omes wanted information and valuable.
‘You have probably come to Dalhousie without a definite purpose in life—without
id decided what you will do for a living or whether you will do it for a! iving
some other purpose. It may be for this very reason that you have come to
ay be well satisfied—whether this be so or not—if you have found,
- colleze, where your interests and abilities lie. That is no mean
_ Many men and women never discover their talents; some only

   
  

  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
   

 
  

   
       
      
 
   
 
 
    

- Ralph Connor, whom many fresmen admire, the Rev. Charles
nly by an accident. You may have come to colleze to oa cape
: n that

enough if you are going to find out what youcan do.
n little of yourse Het yes not know already. Busy yourself,
. varied opportunities whic’ collexe presents. Go to Sodales,
k—you may be a Gladstone. Go to the football field—
hether you can pass the ball to the right man

. B. B, C. meetings: if you can play a good hand

T ame if ever there was one, you will go far yet.

eth books, learn tolike agood story. Have you
et track and’ gymnasium. — Attend your class’ parties,
youere a mixer, vos may make a great salesman: do not
ve executive ability as well as sociability, we may make
1en you have tried these pursuits you will haye begun

  
  
 
 
    
    

   

aster. Wi n you pak . ‘ ale
may not find four years enough to investigate these varied activities.
hat reason do nothing: he is a sorry student who graduates with only a

.

   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
  
    
    
     
  
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
   
  
   
 
    
   

Our rather
ncy in this activity

—

psnits: mill avn you nothing if you neglect the betterment of your

fine pretext for gathering at the university is learning. A certain
is essential to your remaining here; if you can find the
t attitude toward it, your study will be valuable for its own sake. There are
ertain precautions. If you have a dull lecturer or a poor teacher, do not blame
the subject he is murdering: pity it, see if you can get interest in it sufficient to outweigh the subject-cide. If you find your subject dull, you may be sure the fault
Rts. e Wwathe yourself. Keep always in mind some purpose for your studies: a few sce
relations between the ‘various subjects they study, and think they are doing a great
 day’s work; a few see ‘‘practical’” value in their studies; a few there are who delight
jn their studies’-unpracticality; most do not think at all. For yourself—study only
what you like and like what you think you ought to study. In your enthusiasm
—* . do not allow study to grow out of proportion to its value: keep in mind what Prof.
---- Maxwe'l calls marginal utility—a time will come when one hour's worth of something
nee else will be worth one hundred hours’ worth of study; hence holidays—and compulsory attendance. _ !

- --- You will be surprised to find, if you consider the university concerned with
~ the problem of living, no religious instruction. You will have to work out for yourself your attitudes—your attitude toward work, toward your fellow students, your
attitude toward life. Christ is taboo in the classrooms. You may be well saturated

-» already, though few freshmen are, with Christianity. The most important Christian
ideas you witran into again and again as you read; today you cdo not have to go to
the gospels to know the Christian principles. If you do go to them, the average
_ -freshman will put his thinking ahead about two years; if, on the other hand, he waits
“until he isa senior, and he has used the four years, a study of the gospels will be of
little value. If you make much progress in a study of Jesus by yourself you are
:: - fortunate; the group method is the foundation of the Student Christian Movement,
__ which has happened upon a good guidebook also. The 5S. C. M. is a university
_--——s within a would-be university.. If you keep your ears and eyes open your mind and
personality will grow on the campus and at the games, in the classrooms and in the
heh ero smoking rooms.

eu)» @¢Whateveryou

eS
a do, do wholeheartedly. Go to a game because you want to go:
«if you believe in rooting, root heartily. Do not hesitate, because you are a freshman:
to turn out for a university team—a freshman has a name to make; express your
|. opinions—you are lucky to have them; be' wholehearted and honest-and enthusiastic.
~ You will meet the man—if you act as you should—-who considers you too fresh;

- ignore him—-te will condemn you again for a lack of college spirit. Ifyou have

_ the right stuff in you, you will want to defer to your seniors—who will accept your
deference not without embarassment—as to your juniors; you will be modest even

as a graduate is modest. You will be a Dalhousian.

4 =

wee

Te hint ae

 

=
. ~

‘ ee

ee. = Peet

- : i

- mo]

_ WANDERLUST.

____ It’s noontide there in the smiling West, in the golden West and free,
_ (A-thousand, thousand scenes fly back on the wings of memory.

ee weet away with them and leave me there to play,
é And my eager feet are free again to travel the King’s Highway.

' 4


 

=

It's noontide here in the smiling West, the dew is dry on the hill—
_ But, oh to be in the East once more, where it’s night and cool, and still!

lo “ae

    


ur Advertisers!

;
rahe} ae
ae

= shales (ey
rf . ” .  - " sh, a *
ate Re: : Sek.
Bg gist |
onize YO
2 ms ‘ae rita? PEN: a 5 a. hy .

¥.
iy

  

Pea. *
hae i

ee

Des. AM IQUSIE. GAZETTE

A

   
  
   
  
 
  
         
  
 
 
  
   

©

_ For us whose place of business is the university, October marks the New Year.
Now and not January, if we do this thing, is the time for resolutions. An October
resolution is one of the most effective of resolutions. Supposea student determines.
now to study consistently during the whole year: today—the first day of lectures,
supposing him an Arts student--he goes to the Library and begins work; at once he
is ahead of the game, and in study particularly it is easter to keep a lead than to
keep abreast.. His resolution will have effect. Suppose on the other hand that he
waits to make his resolution until 1927: his task will be gigantic—he w ill have to throw
from about kis neck all the habits of laziness which he has-acquired during October,
November, Ce-ember—probably impossible. A resolution is one of the most useful
tricks in our trade: let us use it to the best advantage. “a

~ Resolutions, if they are to be of any value, presuppose thought. Let us’ not
make snap resolutions. Unless we have already taken time, let us pause for a moment
and consider what we are going to do. Let us leave for a while the handshaking
turmoil of old and new Dalhousians, let us forget for a time the mad rush for ‘‘education”, and think what we willdo. We will reflect first of all that our year 1s valuable. We shall have only about fifty more of them: we had better make this year
‘of sorre value for its own sake, make it more than preparatory—we had better enjoy
it. The year is valuable in another way: we have come here because we believe the
‘university will benefit us; there are few among us who can afford to stay here indefinitely. Unless we are fooling ourselves here at Dalhousie we have now an opportunity that we will not have again. Let us think of these things. We will also reflect
on the relative values of various activities—for there is none among us who thinks

;

‘a merely passive part sufficient: we will consider the relative values of work and play,

of intellectual and of physical exercise. We will strike a nice balance. We will

take time, right now— at the beginning of the new year, to work these things out.
Then, when we have resolved on the several courses which we shall pursue, we
will set about our business with a heart. Let us make Dalhousie “go round”’ as she
never went round before. Let us study earnestly and play heartily—let_us carry
out our aims and our resolutions; let us make the new year the biggest Dalhousie
has ever had. Last year we had the best class that ever graduated from Arts anc
Science: let the new year have a better. Last year we had the best Glee Club we
ever had; let the new year have a better. Last year we had the best interfaculty
sport we ever had; let the hew year have better. Last year we had the keenest
debating trials we ever had; let the new year have better. Last year we had the
best Gazette we ever had; let the new year have a better. Remarkable achievements
for a single year; let the new year have better. Let us make 1926-27 Dalhousie's.

 

Be not surprised if no one rushes to greet you: we are retiring people at Dalhousie. |

A Freshmen Reception?

Until last year one of the best of Dalhousie institutions was the Freshmen’s
Reception. It lost its position only because it ceased to exist. te

The Freshmen’s Reception, students will remember, took the form of a supper
Not a dance nor anything in which some would be unable to participate. In additions
to the freshmen, the heads of the various college societies and a number of representatives of the fac Ity attended. After the meal, whose informality put everybody
at ease, these supernumeraries talked to the guests of honour. It was the task o
the professors to prove themselves human—a task well begun when the meal was
over. The student leaders presented to the freshmen their various societies. The
freshman learned that Sodales was a debating society, learned that he was welcome
on the football field, heard a student, dressed as any other student, talk about Jesus
publicly. “The Reception gave the freshman a good perspective of college and its
activities; the freshman of those days got a better start at this college business than

did last year’s freshman. cabot .
M. C. A. instituted the Freshmen's Reception. When

_~ The old Dalhousie Y. the 1
the S. C..M. succeeded the Y. M. C. A. it inherited the Freshmen’s Reception.

Last year the S. C. M. executive felt that the banquet was helping to create a false
idea of the Movement, and decided to dis-ontinue it, The S.C. M. ‘hoped that the
Council of the Students would take up the Freshmen’s Reception—probably no one
brought the matter to the Council’s attention. ;

It would seem a pity to allow this institution to go into the discard. It is one
of the few ways in which we can as a body help to smoothe the difficult road of the
freshman. The students certainly wish to help the freshman—there Is, for example,
the dance—we call it the Students’ Council Dance—whi-h we give at the beginni ig
of each term in honour, though we sometimes forget it, of the new students. W bile
one of those dances costs us two or three hundred dollars, a Freshman’s Reception,
which would be of more value to more freshmen, would cost only about fifty dollars.
Surely we can afford it. The S.C. M. is perhaps not the society to hold it; Dalhousie
is non-sectarian and Jews particularly do not feel at home at 5. C. M. functions;
nor is there any reason, other than that it has always done so, for the S. C. M. to undertake it.

The undertaking is a privilege in which all students should have a share: Let
the Council of the Students, which alone represents us, consider the matter before it
is too late. There will be no doubt as to the result of their consideration.

To Music

Music, what influence thou hast for me :
To sooth my anger or provoke my mirth—
What mystic power thou hast, what sympathy!

Transportest thou my soul above the earth.
I live above this mortal frame and hear

The cry of suffering humanity
Blended with angel voices. But I fear

To list too long, lest human sanity
Be changed to madness,

Oft thou showest me
Glimpses of Dreamland, but they are so brief
I only see afar an azure sea
On which white sails stand out in far-relief
And hear near by a haunting low refrain,
But cannot tell the source. The curtain falls
* And leaves me filled with pleasure and with pain.

Sometimes I hear the bubbling laughing calls
Of Puck and all his fellows, or I see
The fairies dance upon a moonlit lawn.
Mayhap a host of goblins grin with glee
; To fright the fairies 'till the hour of dawn.

At times I see, in fragrant gardens, warm
Beneath the sunset’'s glow, a lady white

A gallant knight beside. They fear no harm
And, happy-eyed, walk in the falling night.

Again I move through vistas long and green,
To find myself ’neath arches dimly high,

And hear deep organ music throb unseen,
Through spaces vast and in the distance sigh.

And yet again I hear the waters dare

With mighty strength to throw great waves on high
To cleanse the heavy thunder-laden air

And quench the lightning in the cloudy sky.

ets thaw aie me to realms unseen,
ere, far from mundane thoughts, thou teachest me
That over all, and robed in love's soft sheen

There dwells a great and mighty Diety.

— Rowena Gould.

 

1
#

Sypinpathy

Dalhousians sympathize with Max
MacOdrum in the loss of his wife
and child. Max was one of the
best-known and most popular members of Arts ’23, and his bereavement,
but a year after his marriage, came

as a great shock to all his friends.

 

 

A September Day

From across the lake comes a mecley

o° clinking sounds telling of cows feeding

—E—

on the luxuriant after-grass. The staccato knock of the hammer at intervals
suggests the farmer patching his house
and oxt-buildings. The harvesting of
his hay and grain crops over he sets
about making repairs lest the coming
winter's snow and sleet find a way in.

Another sound pervades the air yet
does not exclude the hearing dimly of
more distant sounds. It is the cricket
hiding in the grass and singing his in‘essant song. His note is neither full of
hope nor of sadness. He attunes his
voice to the season of the year,—-happy
at once in the sunshine and warmth of the
day yet sad with the thoughts of their
shortness.

A belated bee flies murmuring from
golden rod to aster gathering the last
sips of nectar lest its winter store be not
enough,

Noisy and querulous crows fly with
angry caws over tree-top and field and
are answered by a lone mate in an equally
petulant mood.

A gentle wind brings to my ears the
faint pattering of the poplar leaves and
an occasional splashing as the wave'ets
reach an unkindly shore.

The sky is cloudless except just above
the horizon where a filmy haze, overlying
the blueness, changes it to a whitish
yellow. In places this smoky vapor
assumes a strata-like formation between
the layers of which a blue appears but
not so deep as that in the dome of the
sky. In another quarter the vapor
appears as smoke from a fire beyond the
sky-line. In a few places the pure blue
of the heavens extends almost to the
horizon,

A poised, vibrant stillness broods over
hill and vale broken only by sounds
which but acceatuate the q iet.

Autumn has crept upon the wake of
summer.

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

 

We congratulate Prof. Munro on his
new responsibility. We further conzratulate him on the courage which
allows not even the American constitution
to intimidate him. That charter declares
that all men are equal; the new Superintendent of Education proposes a system
of education that will recoznize the truth
that all men are not equal.

* * *

Sid Gilchrist has returned from Alberta
—he wants a Dal degree. MacGregor
Grant also will be here, rumour says.
With these two reliables back, Sodales is

sure to do well.

es

There is one particular in which Sodales
ind Glee Clib mizht well co-operate.
Roth societies generally hold their meetings on Wednesdays. Last year Clee
lub met almost fortnightly; Sodales’
constitution declares its meetings to be
fortri htly also. It world be a good
idea if th2 executives of the two societies
would arrange to hold their meetings on
alternate Wednesdays. This would have
advantages: the knowledge that these
societies were meeting on certain nizhts
would augment attendance; also we could
keep these nights open. Shall we make
Wednesday night college night?

* #*

Since Graduation the Perfect Class of
1926 has be:ome—the Engtish [epartment to the contrary notwithstanding—
more perfect. Scholarshirs have fallen
to two of its members: Elinor Barnstead
will be at Toronto and Jarvis MacCurdy
at Harvard. Congratulations.

* * *

Other universities are bound they will
enjoy some of Dathousie’s advantaces.
This summer Dr. MacMechan de'ivered
a series of lectures at Harvard.

*k *

_Tke Dental Dean—Dr. Thomson—
picked up an honorary degree this summer.
More congratulations.

* * *

; Some of the pareats of Me!.’31 nenvers must be getting worried. Dalhousie
has changed its course so often that this
year there are men in first year medicine
for the third time without ever having had
a pluck.

¥

* * *

The Gazette will accept contributions
to this column.

Freq ienters of the MacDonald Library
will welcome the handsome clock which
Class '22 has put there as its memorial.
The class has not yet decided when it will
have the official presentation.

 
a * 7," + oad biz xe a - —y = ca
ee ee _ hat, = ~ t ~
Le om A er Pe ‘ 2 ro *,
ees a ee :
: a ~ x Z
Eas i {
fs4 3 +. za
ys _— =

  
 
   

aot DALHOUSIE GAZETTE. 3 Page Three

-27 A Banner Year!

resident, Tells How to Avoid| Dalhousie Will Win if We Stand Side
 Irreparable of Misfortunes by Side in Support of Her

or-in-Chief of the Dalhousie Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,
th his usual interest in all Sir:-—At the beginning of another
ich exist for the good of the academic year with its correlative atht bod has given me the opportun- letic season, may I be permitted to use
ff introducing to the new students, your pages for the purpose of making a
h the columns of his paper, Sodales few remarks regarding the Dalhousie
; Society. It is with the greatest Amateur Athletic Club. ‘
“that I take advantage of the _ To those who are entering the Univereg so graciously offered to me. _ sity for the first time the D. A. A. C.
en Gene ati Be ae, extends a cordial welcome. Upon rege advantages of such a society as istration at the University Office you
ee at eenetaly sive aaa Ere a anes of the Club and as
thin exists only for what the late such you are entitled to those privileges
Lot. Ge 1 W. Longely would call ‘‘Heaven | mercilessly destroying a case that you which the Club is able to alee to ae
born Orators’. Such a conception en-| had thought to be hole proof. That kind They include primarily an opportunity
_ tirely misses the mark, for no student is| of thing will give your cerebral-cortex such of competing for a position on any of
o dull that his wits can not be sharpened|a massage that your synapses will not Dalhousie’s athletic teams, a chance to

       

 

     
  

    

pe

;, President, Tells

Welcome

Time rolls its ceaseless course.
Again we are gathered together within
tne historic halls of old Dalhousie,
and as usual we have in our midst
annual influx of newcomers.

To those who already enjoy the
name, Dalhousian, I extend hearty
6reetings, and sincere thanks for past
favors. Their unanimous sentiment,
I feel sure I am voicing when I extend
in their behalf, a hearty welcome to
those who are entering the university
for the first time.

To you, strangers within our gates,
we offer our goodwill and friendship.
We hope that your expectations may
be fulfilled, and your ambitions
realized. We wish you success in the
course you are commencing, and
hope to hail you some day as worthy

  
  
  
   
 
 
    
  
 
   

 
 
  
 
      
 
    
  

  

4

 
    
   
   
    
   
     
 
   
    
   
     

There is a danger that. our minds will
become as lifeless as the wax which is
written over by the Gramaphone record
maker's needle. A rough and tumble
debate however soon arouses the crammer
from his mental stagnation; and he sees
all round a subject instead of seeing only
the text book author’s view.

especially as the men in the professional
faculties find the time to fill the greater
number of places on the first teams.
Much as I deplore the thought I firmly
believe there to be a serious lack of
interest in Dalhousie’s Athletics, existing
within the precincts of the University.
Lack of interest kills any project. If the
above conclusion is founded on fact and
not only on my humble opinion, we, as
Dalhousians, are faced with a duty to
our University to stimulate interest in
her doings and activities both athletic
and otherwise. Are we going to meet
it or are we going to lie down, to
quit, to declare ourselves beaten before
we start; because to my mind that is

 

3. Debating sharpens the wits. It
is one thing to memorize a lecturer's
notes and quite another to have to rubut
an opponent in five minutes time, who is

 

SP. SeRE ae ek ee, eae
i ll ie Si :
, a = 
in

in the arena of debate and no under-| know what struck them.
emanate fe ot halting in his speech that
he can not acquire an easy platform
“manner. Do not be discouraged if your
tongue, ‘‘cleaves to the roof of your
_ mouth,” for Demosthenes was just
such a one as you before he discovered

ee

 
   
    
   
   
      
  
    
  
 
  
  
     
   
    
   
  
  
  

= aes Ts iz ee

erent
y

ae opt ¢: The advantages of taking part in a
_ Debating Society such as Sodales are
namely three: =

pa Ska ey ee te rs
Tic, a
wn

a

1. Sodales is"a “place to learn some: et of the art of public speaking.

The press and the platform are the most

potent factors in influencing public
opinion: Therefore anyone who desires

aoe Pe a leader in any field whatsoever
__.___ should be either a good speaker or a good
<qa% _ writer. Moral: Make use of Sodales
. and the Dalhousie Gazette.

A&
=

   

  

ee ‘There is no way. to learn a subject
| aos on it. As who study from
_ text books are very liable to get into the
habit of learning things parrot fashion.

| TE ees Re ees

   
 
   
 
 

    

ISTIAN MOVEMENT

teresting and Valuable
A evity e be Found

c 1 ae e Camreus. - »
what the S. C. M. is and
tisa site lifficule'to aa ees
ver it is, it is the result of the
understand and apprecat are the highest and
fp life, and how may they be
pl aalne his question has been asked
since the beginning of time, but still it is
ne The tes es. ogee _ The keen desire to find the
ke es mi swer

 

 
  
 
      
 
  
   
 
 
  
    

answer is the motive back of the S. C. M.
The activities which the movement
_ carries on, and the emphasis placed on

each,

     
  

   

    

areitsmembers. =
‘his is not very definite is it?

| -vany from year to year, according
Pe ) the view of the different individuals

oi

ae
~
*

F

     
 

As a

matter of fact, the S. C. M. almost
boasts of its vagueness of definition.
aK here are no rules laid down to guide its
= development. But, of course, the tend

of that development must be toward the
goal outlined above. ‘
____- Tt might be said that the movement is a
personal thing and not a collective thing
If a group desires to find truth, or to
attain the highest life, it must be because
: each member is seeking to do so. But
pt one can be of great help to another.
That is the reason for the fact that the
S. C. M. has an organization. It is an
attempt to bring together individuals

_ with the common aim of attaining the
% highest. Some of the most valuable
experiences derived from college life
‘- come from association with other students.
a ae S. C. M. offers an opportunity for
~ at is probably the most interesting

and valuable group activity to be found
- onthe campus, bar none.

Now it is a fact, that consciously or
-unconsciously, every one of us is seeking
a the best to be foundin life. There is
a great difference of opinion as to the

hes means. This is sometbing which is
ae very important, and needs to be given
a reat thought. The S. C. M. gives a

Pas great deal of assistance to the student
ee, who wishes to investigate and find the
| -—-«- best means.

| ~ -- You can see from this that it can mean
-a great deal in the life of the student.
Some students have said that it is the

ss most worthwhile thing that they had
ss met _at college. They came from all
_ faculties. They realized the opportunity

which was theirs only while at college
and took full advantage of it.

The Movement offers the same opportunity to you.

    
   
    
 
  

E. BINNEY FAIRBANKS,
mEeS President Men's Branch.
i. -_ ORA ET LABORA.

pr oe
'* my 4 ¥ ‘
ar J o%

16 e ata! yi

i Spe es ‘Gerald and Henry Godsoe are back
ae with us at college, having spent the
EF ae in Quebec, where they were
_ securing their Ph. D’s. But, gentle

r, Ph. D. means Post Hole Digger,

:

 
    
 
    
    
  

for that is just what these two popular
brothers were doing—digging post holes

=H

- Ps aa re :
metre are eanaee:

    

a

7 ae

     

_ preached all summer in the West.
ee

   

|a sympathetic audience.
while of course modesty is a jewel, bashfullness often deprives students of half
Make yourselves known either to me or to some one
le

An
announcement of a meeting of Sodales
will be on it soon so if you don’t watch
the notice board every day you may be
the victim of that most irreparable of
misfortunes, the missing of the first meet
 

that the Glee Club does.
since it is open to all students and under

and Winfrid Henley have

For these reasons alone it should be
clear that Sodales has something for
You may not all
be ambitious to become spell binders,
but every one of you will do well to store
your memory and sharpen your wits by
spirited discussions upon questions of the

every undergraduate.

day.

your opinions.

the benefits of college life.
member of the executive of Sodales.

are interested in you all.
Lastly watch the notice board.

ing of Sodales.

— Herbert A, Davidson.

A Follower Presents
_. the Glee Club

Among all the student societies and
organizations of a college, there is none
which claims the interest and support
of the entire student body to the extent
Moreover,

no obligation, its success depends on
their voluntary support, just as its failure
depends on their lack of it.

The truth of the above statement is
well borne out by the records of the last
two years at Dalhousie. The session
1924-25 was a very poor one for the Glee
and Dramatic Club. Practically nothing
at all was done before Christmas and
even afterwards there was very little
interest shown. Last session, however,
the Club had a very successful year—
meetings were held practically every three
weeks and some very creditable—even
ambitious—entertainments were provided
These last consisted of short plays—
musical numbers etc. and two more
elaborate productions of the opposite
type. Through the efforts of J. L. L.
Chisholm ’27, a male chorus was organized and this group was heard several
times in very finely rendered numbers.
An orchestra, also, was formed under the
baton of Miss Jean Shaw °27; but the
session being then well advanced, it was
heard but once—much to the regret fo

all.
A distinct novelty was ‘Faculty
Night’’—when the entire programme

was furnished by members of the faculty
and which proved to be one of the most
memorable evenings of the year. Not
many of us will forget the amazing ease
with which the Herculean Prof. Bennett
wrenched the spike-nailed chair from the
cabin-floor of the pirate ship!

All these features of the Glee Club’s
activities will probably be continued this
year—with, of course, the regular informal dance after each show. The

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Do not be bashful about expressing
At Sodales you will have
Furthermore

   
 

 

sraduates.

and

—Fred MaclInnes.

Council President

 

 

F. W. MacINNES, President of Council
of the- Students, who welcomes new
students.

 

“Sing Songs”’ of former years will likely
be resumed also for 1926-27.

So, Dalhousie Students new and old,
get behind the Glee Club and give it
the support that will make it as successful
as it was last year anyway. The least
you can do is to turn out to every meeting;
and if you have any talent for music or
dramatics, give of it freely to make the
entertainments as enjoyable as possible
for your less gifted fellow students.
Even though you may not be able to
take “high C” and hold it till the janitor
comes around to lock up the building,
or play Tannhauser’s Triumph in twentytwo flats with your eyes shut, yet your
efforts will be appreciated to the full by
the male chorus or the orchestra and by
the whole student body. By giving of
your best to her Glee Club, you are giving
of your best to Dalhousie. Remember,
she needs and desires it—now, especially
when you are under her roof, as well as
in later years when you will have passed
from her portals to bring honor to her
name.

F.C. Page.

 

 

 

THE GAZETTE INTRODUCES ITSELF.

The DALHOUSIE GAZETTE speaks for itself.

The following

extract from the “Prologus’’ which appeared in 1869 when there was
no other college paper in Canada, continues to express the Gazette’s

purpose:

“The Gazette is to represent the views of the Students, to advocate their interests and strive in all things to cultivate that love

and intensify the sympathy that should exist between Alumni.

The

editors are to be little more than judicious censors, to select wisely

what shall be published, to endeavor in a new sense, to practice the

art of putting things, and by worthy service hope to earn the praise

of being faithful Exponents of Students’ views.

If among much

that may prove dull there be found some sparkling pleasure or whole
some goods let it expiate the fault.

When you find many blemishes,

learn to avoid them, and ere you condemn produce a work more

faultless, while we timidly suggest the words of Horace:

“Carmen sequar, ut sibi quivis

Speret idem,

Sudet multum frustraque laborat,
Ausus idem.”

  

We trust too that in the
attainment of your main purpose
here, you may also lend your support
influence to every phase of
student activity; so that, by united
effort with older Dalhousians. you
will assist to make 1926-27 a banner
year in the annals of our University.

 
   
 
    
 

represent your faculty the Interfaculty League, use of the Gymnasium,
Track, Rink and Playing Field, attendance at all meetings of the Club and a
voice in the athletic affairs of your College.
These are some of the advantages of
holding a D. A. A. C. membership card,
and it is my earnest request that full use
of them be made.

To all members of the Student Body
of Dalhousie, I wish to make it clearly
understood that you are members of the
D. A. A. C., entitled to all its privileges,
and expected to give in return the best
of your athletic ability, or at least, your
loyal support. We cannot all make the
first teams but we can one and all, stand
behind the efforts of those who represent
us on the field of play, by taking an
active interest in the doings of the
different teams, by turning out to the
practices and by attending the games and
cheering the players on to victory or
helping them smile in the face of defeat.
This we can do at least, and this help,
little though it may seem, is bound to
make its valuable presence known.

Here I must state that in my opinion
the athletic privileges and opportunities
of Dalhousie University are not sufficiently appreciated and realized by the
Student Body as a whole, or by the
members of the Student Body individually.
Possibly serious and arduous academic
application on the part of the students
accounts for this fact, but much as I
would like to entertain this possibility
I fear it is not the only explanation,

just what the proposition means. Spirit
makes the team; and interest, enthusiasm
and support create that spirit.

Our academic duties come first and
foremost—fulfil them, but at the same
time let us remember that we have another
duty, one which displays more than anything else our loyalty to our Alma Mater,
namely, that of support in Dalhousie’s
athletics. Our Club is run with the
sanction and approval of the President
and Senate who want Dalhousie to win;
her Graduates want Dalhousie to win,
we all want Dalhousie to win... and
Dalhousie WILL win if we stand side by
sidein support of her,

I thank you, Sir, for the privilege of
using your columns for these remarks
which I hope may be of some benefit to
the D. A. A.C. Before closing I should
like to say that it is a source of satisfaction to me:to know that the D. A. A. C,
has the sympathetic support of the
officers of this wear’s Students Council.
The Council’s support is the start of a
successful season the students’ support is the assurance of a successful
season, and by successful Ido not necessarily mean a series of victories, but
rather a furtherance and development
of that spirit of true sportsmanship
which makes the real athlete, the real
loyalty to one’s Alma Mater, the real
man.

 

Yours very truly,
Rex. J. Moore,
PHS EA AL

eee ge er aera eg eae geen e areeenaeeeesan peer eee ee gr hetsnscstiaecesisungentsicesnsemssibclilieenesiepmisg

 

ATTENTION ’29.

In the old days it was supposed that
every freshman had an inherent propensity
to be fresh, and that to prevent this
calamity he must be sat upon, shown his
place, by the community generally and
by sophomores in particular.
way has apparently been found.

old idea was to make the
small; the new way is to make other
things seem big. Under the new system
a freshman can enjoy a considerable
amount of self-respect, and yet, in the
presence of the great and good things
unfolded to him, possess the grace of
humility. The new freshman at the end
of this first (freshman) week may feel
overwhelmed by the attentions he receives,
—but he does not feel fresh.

The new method of dealing with freshman is not merely a contrivance of his
elders, imposed upon him from above; it
is the only method which is suitable to
the new kind of freshman. For the new
freshman, like his fellow students of other
classes, and like modern youth generally
has a mind of his own, and insists upog,
having the fact recognized. —The Harvard Alumni Bulletin.

The

 

HELEN WICKWIRE
President of Delta Gamma and  VicePresident of the Council of the Students.
Delia Gamma is the all-powerful
soctety at Dalhousie,

freshman seem|nevertheless complaints have been

 

A REVOLUTIONARY UPHEAVAL.

_—_———_..

Off with the Old—On with the New.

New Educational Methods Replace
Old Antiquated Ideas.

It is a most regrettable yet nevertheless

‘A. etter (2FUe fact that Anatomy lectures seem to

be the dullest in the whole world.

Be the
lecturer ever so good (page E.

fs Oe
received from students that the ennui
involved in giving an Anatomy lecture
has seriously interfered and in some cases
practically entirely curtailed, their sleep.
This, in a paternal University like Dalhousie is unthinkable the more especially
when it is so entirely unnecessary... Sleep
is an essential constituent of any college
course and any college curriculum, no
matter how extensive should be widened
at once to include either Bed Time Stories
or some method of making lectures so
Interesting that there will be no need. for
sleep—a sort of synthetic substitute for
sleep as it were. Let us take under
consideration the latter idea.

For instance, consider the following
bare dold statement entirely destitute
ol romance, sentiment or any appeal to
the imagination whatsoever. Here is
only stark Fact almost appalling in its
utter lack of appeal to the imagination.

_ ‘*The spinal process contains a half-facet
for articulation of muscles and ligaments
which determine the curve of the lip’—.

Utterly lacking in all the characteristics
necessary for gaining the attention. Is it
any wonder that sleep could be disturbed
by such statements? Now, under the
new system I intend to describe, something like the following would replace the
above bold statement:

“On a bright, moon-light night in
June (or July) a dance was being held in
a brightly lit gymnasium. A dozen
couples dipped and swayed and bowed
on the brightly lit floor before the approving glances of the chaperon, Outside,
under the sheltering trees or in the huge
black shadows cast by them, dozens of
couples strolled or sat in solitude ‘a deux’
Every couple consisted of a girl and boy—
and in every case the white dress of the
girl was crossed at the waist by a bar of
black that was a coat-sleeve. Here the
dainty ankle, the magnificent and alluring
eye or the splendid curve of a lip delighted
male hearts. Everywhere perfect feminity held sway.. Here perfect alignment
of muscles and ligaments to perfect
half-facets of the spinal process determined curves which rendered more
alluring already alluring, cherry ripe
lips—’’.

You see? Simplicity itself!

Beardsley and Harlow, medicals, have
been waiters at the Chateau Frontenac.

 
   
 
 
 

  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
   

ae

 
 

Bras,
; : ‘ ek :

m,
ny hag
a
Saf
: ante
ane sa
‘
al gt. at
homer:

a
am

*
s
* ,
pee Fe) os
A

ase
hal or —

:
vr
a,
j “

Tr ie

Sap ah

» <

‘ Le rP %

a zy

4 hte “

¢ 7 *

yee
a,

a +

gee ep

iy oak
C3

E
4

 

    

at 3 . ers’ h .
- Shod in dainty leather.

a

Pe
e ' k
ie ¥ 2
i ih rt ez

_ atics in New York.
*

 

ae ie

to Freshettes

 

them are calicoed,

of ’em are shirted. —

en are fpoking on,
ry?

Green grass, lush grass, _

<_Emlering together —

ss Sing the new battalion,
ss Braving autumn weather!

Who of you play dominoes,

*
a

All of you play chess?

; See the itle nodding heads,
-_ Each a-nodding, yes!

Juniors’ eyes are asking, |
‘Other games you play?
Pretty eyes are answering,

- *No, we couldn’t say.’

Green grass, lush grass,
Swaying together;
Women here, women there,

Sing a song of sixpence,

___ Pocket full of rye;

%
é :.

Taxicabs are dearer,

So is apple pie: |
Costs you nothing now, dear,
_ Maybe by-and-bye. ~

Gay life, the night life,

Danger drawing nigh.
Will you risk with me, dear,
Warming at the fire?
A gay life, the college life,
Be Passing all desire.

Green grass, lush grass,

Leaning together:

Will you pluck or pass.
In December weather?

Red heads, gray heads,

- Hoping together—

Some of them have tripping feet
Lighter than a feather:

; do rest on them,

dear,

Green grass, lush grass,

Dancing together:
Some are always out of luck
— This or any weather!
RN ASB e tg 5, :

rink it nothing here, dears, —
hat sophomores are coolish:
ves place to keep?
pep pOmeres are foolish!
ald you know the ones who hold

       
 
  

ie ~ You above all others?

fot the senior class's girls—
__ Only their brothers.
They the college wisest men

_ To hold you ’bove the others!

| Green grass, lush grass,

Entering together:

‘College life, college wife,

Sing in autumn weather|

 

- With ’26 in the Wide,

Wide World

Elinor Barnstead, Jean MacRae and
Elizabeth Morton are all doing postgraduate work at Varsity this year.

Flo MacMullen is teaching at Netherwood, and Allison Fitzrandolph has accepted the position at Edgehill held for the
past two years by Margaret King of Class
"24.

* * *

Edith MacNeill is teaching at Highland

‘Hall, a private school for girls in Holliday
sburg, Pennsylvania.
* * *

Charlotta Johnson is studying Dram
* *

Molly Beresford spent the summer
doing Social Service work, but is now
teaching again in the city.

Rita Morton graduated in piano in
June and has accepted a position on the
teaching staff of the Halifax Conservatory of Music.

- * * &

Jarvis McCurdy has gone to Harvard
to study for his M. A.

* * *

Gerry Buckley of Commerce ’26 is also

at Harvard.

Blanchard Thomson has accepted a
position in the bank in Kentville.

   
  
   
 

~Winter-Burns Ltd.

Exclusive Agents for

    

    
    
  
 

|| Society Brand Clothes

Correct Dress for Students
1 437 BARRINGTON STREET

   
  
  
  

   
   
  
  
   
     

“‘would-be lawyer’.
came from Osgoode Hall.

to its classrooms and_ libraries
‘Would-be Lawyer’, whom we
WBL. No use telling you why
wanted to attend Osgoode
Dalhousian would never

so very long. That was the situation.

monial Bureau?

matrimonial bureau

had the courage of their convictions).

Prof. W. Russell Maxwell to Miss Ellen
Chisholm, a graduate of Dalhousie. It
had been anticipated by the students for
some time. Possibly the principals had
that in mind when they arranged to
have the ceremony take place so far from
the college. No doubt they thus escaped
the most vociferous expressions of regard,
but the congratulations extended through
‘the Gazette though belated are none the
less sincere. ;

The ‘‘Meds” never believe in letting
the Arts people get ahead of them; so
they heartily expressed their approval of
Dal. weddings; their representative being
Dr. E. Gordon Young. Dr. Young was
married in May to Miss Madge Musgrave
who, though not a Dalhousian, is very
well known among the students. Dal
wishes.

Dr. Harry Ritchie Chipman is not only

ta loyal Dalhousian, but an example of

what the college will do for her sons if
they are worthy. She gave Mr. Chipman
his education, his ‘“‘job’’, and his bride.
Jiss marriage to Miss Freda Bisset is of
particular interest to Dalhousians as he
and his bride were students together at
Dal. Though some people may have been
a trifle ‘‘sore’’ at the way things were
“put over on them” in the matter of the
wedding, everybody offers the heartiest
congratulations.

Dr. E. W. Nichols, too, has deserted
his bachelor friends! He was recently
married to Miss Roberta Bond, a Dal.
graduate.
erous and sincere. Possibly Elementary
Latin will be less of a trial to the doctor
now that the Freshettes can no longer
spend so much of their time wondering
why he isn't married.

| |
CLASS

JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED.
Diamond Merchants

 

e

HALIFAX

   

’

 

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore
BOOKS ON

  
  
  
    

Science, Art, Poetry
Fiction, etc.
ALSO

School and College Text Books

Commercial and Society Stationery

T. C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

_ Toa Newfoundland outport one morning in late summer a letter came for a
There was no opening for him, stated the letter, which
It all happened
through a_ technicality—a little ‘‘red
tape” which knotted itself in clovehitches,
bowlines, sheepshanks and all manner of
fishermen’s knots which even the Newfoundlander cannot understand when
used to tie up the good ship Education,
about a small difference between Ontario
‘|and Newfoundland high-school requirements. Osgoode Hall would not et

the
label
he
Hall—a
understand.
Sufficeth it to say that he did, that he
did very keenly, and that he had done

 

Is Dalhousie a Matri
Some time ago the question of whether
Dalhousie is a matrimonial bureau was
publicly debated in the School for the
Blind. The final decision is immaterial
now, but the general opinion of the
faculty seems to be that if Dal. is not a
i it ought to be.
Four of our learned professors even
went so far as to get married themselves.
(The members of the faculty have always

But lest the Freshettes be unduly cast
down, there are one or two eligibles left.

The first event was the marriage of

housians, old and new offer their best |

Congratulations are num- |

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Here’s what happened. After sighs
and curses used in alternate doses had
dried up the wells of grief and the fountains of despair, WBL began to reflect.
Some law school he must attend, and
(of the trek to St. Johns and of the voyage
thence to civilization he was thinking)
he had better quickly discover it. Through
encyclopedias, ‘‘dictionaries of fact’,
and magazine advertisements he went,
exhausting their possibilities in a manner
that would have done credit to a lawyer—
become, trying to find some consolation
for Osgoode Hall. There were many
fairly good shops—so many in fact that
he couldn’t decide which was the best.

Then came a fit of despair; desperation
followed; then a desperate act. WBL
had heard of a law school in the Maritimes
—a rutty little place.

“I'll go to Dalhousie,’ he announced.

II

From a Newfoundland outport we come
to a dirty, romantic city 3000 miles from
all points on the circumference of a circle
described with named radius and centre,
Halifax. There was in this stunted
city a boy who was going to be a “‘doctor
when he grew up’. Not incidentally he
was going to attend McGill—costing
money of course but in his opinion,
money well spent. Then something
happened involving the filthy lucre, an
event that made McGill impossible for
him. No matter what it was; perhaps
his father died, perhaps a wealthy aunt
did not die, or perhaps—but you can
yourself exhaust the possibilities from
your memories of Alger.

The boy who was going to be a Doctor
When he Grew Up (DWGU) didn’t think
life worth living—there was Dalhousie of
course, cheap enough too; but to him
“McGill” and ‘‘Medicine’’ were synonomous. Someone must have used a lot
of persuasion for finally he made a momentous decision.

“All right’’, he said, ‘‘I’ll go to Dal.”

Ill

The third incident in this tale of woe is
much like the first two. The result is
identical, the facts only are slightly
different. This time it is a dentist, a
Dentist-to-Be—and differently there 1s
nothing to prevent him attending the
college he wishes, an American institution
supposed to be the best on the continent,
perhaps the worst. He is free to attend
the college he wiskes, but what good will
it do him, who with all his soul wishes

 

 

 
   

  
 
   
  

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention
ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Limited

CASINO

This MON.-TUES.-WED.
MILTON SILLS

IN

“Men of Steel”

With DORIS KENYON

“A mighty powerful production.”
—Film Daily.

THUR.-FRI.-SAT.

The Wilderness Woman

With AILEEN PRINGLE and
CHESTER CONKLIN

What a Womanl What a Picturel

 

  

i ie

Bagginess was ne’et in style

Our pressing service is worthwhile.

Sponging and pressing restores
the freshness and the stylish lines
of your suit. Phone us to call.

‘For Your Appearance's Sake"

HUBLEY’S

CLEANERS & DYERS

52 SACKVILLE STREET
Next to Strand Theatre

Phone S 109

  

   
   
  
  

  
 
  
   
   
  

to live and to practice in his own home—
Nova Scotia? By a remarkable extension of that brotherly scheme which
politicians call Protection, Nova Scotians
have, by making examinations for admission to practice unnecessary for
graduates of our own colleges and by
setting well-nigh prohibitive exams for
others, given protection even to the
manufactures of our universities.

These circumstances forced the Dentistto-Be to patronize the local university.

IV

But to every story there is a conclusion
with at least a fifty-fifty chance that it
be a happy one. If to decide the question,
the writer tosses a coin there are equal
chances of any happy or unhappy ending.
If on the other hand he himself decides,
the chances for ‘‘They all lived happily
ever after,’’ are overwhelming.

This story ends—in the Dal gym. As
in the final scene of your conventional
play all our characters —WBL, DWGU,
Dentist-to-Be—flock on to the stage.
Not the gym stage to be sure for a Glee
Club Clique was about to present a
“show”, but on to a figurative stage of
which we will require little. WBL is
now a “‘lawyer’’, DWGU a “med”, and
Dentist-to-Be is a ‘‘dent’’, and much
prouder are they of these titles now than
ever will they be of those to which graduation will entitle them. Sitting  together somewhere in the sudience with
many things in common, not least among
which was the roof over their heads for
that night it was raining, they talked
Dalhousie.

That Dal had the best though one of
the smallest law schools on the continent,
was the observation of the lawyer.
“Everybody is looking at the Canadian
Law Schools,”’ he said: “The Canadi n
law schools are looking at Dalhousie.”’

The Dent made an equally good point.

A FRIEND OF THE
COLLEGES

The
$Hlorning Chronicle

AND

The Evening Echo

 

200 sheets,—

note that)

books, and note

391 Barrington St.

Worth Your Attention!

We are out for business in COLLEGE
REQUISITES and to this end we are
offering the best values in the City.

|

Beat these if you can:

Flexible Leather Loose-Leaf
Note Book

Standard size, (three rings) capacity

$2.25 each
Complete with filler $2.80

REFILLS
Finest quality BOND paper (please
(standard ruling)
.60c per Hundred sheets
$4.75 per Thousand sheets

When you examine the quality of
the paper in Our refills, you will agree
with us that it is without equal, and
is better than anything you have been
able to buy, at or near this price, for
the past few years.

We carry a good range of ‘‘Lab”’
Pens, Pencils, etc.,
Our prices will stand comparison.
An Eversharp Pencil Free

With each purchase of College Supplies amounting to $6.00 or over, at

FARRELL’S

_ Ghe Friendly Store

THE NEAREST STATIONER TO YOUR COLLEGE

October 4th, 1926

 

Won’t You Come Up To Dalhousie?

“Dal has one of the few best equipped
dental schools on the continent,” he said.

Then quoth the Med. ‘Dal has a
medical school equal to that of any
university—A1,’’ he said, ‘‘And, here’s
the point, because of the limited number
of students better hospital facilities than
most, more practical opportunities. Experience is the thing.”

Naturally enough the trio went on to
observe the all-roundness of Dalhousie’s
excellence and to express the opinion that

there was about Dalhousie something
unlike all other colleges of which
they. had heard. The reason, if they

had known it, was that a mother is
always superlative, that every mother is
the best mother. Noone knows where the
conversation would have carried them had
there been no interruption; perhaps to
each of them might have recurred the
circumstances of his coming to Dalhousie.

The curtains of the gym stage, just as
ours are about to close, parted and fell
together again behind a fellow student.
‘Until the performers are ready,” he said,
“‘we’re going to sing a few Dal songs.
Everybody please join in ‘Oh, Won't
You Come Up to Dalhousie?’.’”’

Among the lusty voices singing ‘‘There’s
only one college that deals in the knowledge........ "could be heard those of a
Newfoundlander who was going to be a
lawyer, of a Haligonian who was ‘‘going
to be a doctor when he grew up’”’, and of
a Dentist-to-Be, who was going to live
and practice in Nova Scotia.

WALSH'S
LIRA SLUICE,

YOUR DRUGGISTS

SPRING GARDEN RD.
COR. QUEEN ST.

oN oe

| Clothes Seen at the Colleges

Suits, Overcoats
and Furnishings

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

Wo BE Pade

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.

HALIFAX

 

      
      
          
      
      
     
   
    
    
        
          
       
         
     
        
      
   
 
      
     
      
     
     
  
   
       
 
  
 
   
      
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
   

 

 

 

  
  
  
 

books. Fountain

Ecc,

  
   
 
   
   
    
     
     
   

 

Halifax, N. S.

 
; 7 bias
: : , " . v; "i ain
= ah & va Parnes ;
* ml aa te ia
er < Pie ee oe i a
ar. at i, “
t- ex 4
he: Ly a :
ge Ae
Ae wee S

 

  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
   
    
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
   
  

ae

t broods lovingly over the
to sit and think. Strange
and fancies crowd through
but one of the dearest is a
the garden where I spent a
of my time when I was a wee
with two long braids, each tied
pon. Perhaps time has cast a
over that garden; perhaps if I
‘it now, it would not seem so
so like fairyland. But it is
‘in its place is a large garage.
garden was at the back of the
and it was surrounded by a high
-a fence over which I often longed
k. At one end there was a huge
part ash, part weeping-willow. Its
hes spread out wide on all sides and
laces they reached so near to the
und that I, with the dignified height of
‘seven years had to stoop to go under
ei the other end was a pear
_ The pears were s nal! and hard and
ur, but it was tragedy to me when the
died and was cut down. ‘t the very back of the garden there
was” a patch of raspberry-bushes. Of
1 the tempting honors in the world, it
was the greatest. Luscious red berries
hung just where one had to part the
hes in order to reach them; and just
as sure as one so much as moved a stalk,
‘big flies and bees buzzed and flew about
one’s ears with their most terrifying
manner. —
On either side along the high fences
were rows of dahlias-—-tall flowers with
~~ graceful heads and cool faces,—bold reds,
_ ‘shy pinks, dear little chubby poms and
" many others, white, yellow, wine and
~ mottled, peeped down from their thick
foliage and unselfishly held up their
io :

i >

4 PLAN

I. Ispent two hours wondering how to
begin this theme.
7 < E ,
. Whoever invented this subject should
ye shot.

; Well, thank Eeavens, this is th
paragraph.
Introduction.

e call you “Class 30.” Tke hard
 
   
   
   
   

entering our university for the
time, my sympathy goes out to you,
ur great hour of need. a
[ see in the future, waiting for you, a
olor, a dreadful color—RED. I see
it sf tted all th ugh your first year in
college. I see shelves of books being
searched for information. I see you as
energetic students, walking the floor at a
~- Jate hour on a cool Sabbath night, first
* scratching your heads, then scratching a
pen, over a book, a terrible book, a little
“red book, your theme book. —

Bo y
Themes at colleze are very much
like accidents in that they are bo'nd to
happen, and so I shall here broadcast a
few hints for those green Freshmen wio
“might otherwise feel blue, adding l!o-a!
color to their red themes.
- Our English department is fond of one
theme in particular. No matter if they
“disguise it as ““My Education’’, ‘What |
Have Done in English", ‘‘What I An.
Here For” or hundreds of similiar titles,
you are sure to get it, for it is one of those
“permanent fixtures like Christmas, it
. eomes once a year, and it would take
more than a third year Dent. to extract
it from te curriculum.
~ With careful research into the fet
“notions of the theme examiner (N. B.,
the theme examiner, dear Freshmen, is
the man who only uses the first four
letters of tie alphabet, namely A, B, C, D,
to express approval or disgust concerning
_ your theme, and who. has created more
' *iterary D’s"’, than the Gazette ever
hopes to create;)1 have discovered the
© model there for the sub’e't, ‘‘My
_ Edueation’’, etc. etc. It goes something
dike this:
_ My name is Hugh Knowitt and at an
early age folks round about Greenville
had me slated as the coming premier, >nd
“a leading statesman of the world.
When becoming old eaough, I readily
understood why they had such a
spleadid opinion of me, and | heartily
agreed with them.

 

 

ae Say it with Flowers, Say a wiih Ours
a THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «Potted Plants

‘We make up Funeral Designs,

also Wedding Rouquets. We also

do Table De-orating. We are the

only members of the T. F. D. Florists.

- We can wire Flowers to all parts of
ariel

[THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.

Rt

Pe

‘Phone Sac. 3321-3°22
Night Prone Sac. 1934 —

oe
fh
, ;

Sophomores place the accent on}
t syllable, and brand you as.
on: ee others, wishing |
O: ‘ ‘Fre bigs”.
me, whoever you
band, of yo:th

  

A GARDEN
Rowena Gould. A

-honey-cups to the bees. There were
other flowers too. The gentle pansies
held a corner of their own and tried in
vain to grow as tall as the golden-glows
that langhed down upon them. Foolish
little pansies! They were far nicer as they
were. Sweet-peas, sweet-william and
sweet-may gave a charming fragrance
to the whole garden. They could almost
rival the roses. Moss-roses, rambler
roses,—roses red, white and pink grew
in beauty under the soft caresses of the
summer sun, and finally dropped their
petals, lingeringly as though loth to part
with their treasures. Asters, flocks,
verbenas and nasturtiums had _ their
corners and parted with many a bloom
pulled off, without stalks by fat litt‘e
fingers. Wise-eyed bachelors’ buttoas,
and stately cosmos, too, lost many a
fair flower in this way, but I do not think
they could have begrudged them—they
used to look so tempting, and I never
could pick them with long graceful stalks,
as mother did,—but then, she did everything so wonderfully. She was the
Fairy Queen of the garden.

Eventide in that garden was delightful.
The faint glow in the western sky, the
soft cool breezes that rust!ed through the
trees, and lifted the stray locks about
one’s faze, the hush that spread over
everything, and even subdued the
shrill voices of the neighbors’ children,
plaving outside the high fences, and tne
low swooping noise of the night-hawk as
he flew overhead, seemingly so near yet
never visible to my wondering eyes,—
all this meant an hour that I counted
among my choicest treasures.

A Model Theme

My teacher could never set difficult
enough prob'ems for me, and that is
one of the reasons why I am coming
to this college, so that I might be
classed with men of distinction, like
you, dear laborious professcr.
carried off every prize in sshool, and al!
this has never made me feel the least
bit conceited. J look forward to the
-jo'ly time I will have at the Sophmores’
expense, for I am an all round fe''ow
and such a good chap they would hate
to touch me. ae
en'oy writing these themes, and only
wish, for the sal.e of the other students,
_ that, weshould have to write then more
_ often, asinorcer toexcel, ‘‘ad maiorem
_ patride gloriam’’, one must continue
_ to take pains with one's work, as I do
myself, dear examiner. =

—

*

—— ,

Conclusion.
That completes the theme. Te'l as
much useful information about yourself
as you can, stating the exact time you go
to bed, whether or not you he'’onz to a
Sanday School class, and what you
intend to do when you become mayor of
your town. Do not forzet to add a
Latin phrase at the end, for it leaves a
‘asting impression with the examiner,
even more so if used or svelt incorrectly.
Now, armed with this little mode! theme,
gO wage voir theme battles, dear Freshmen, and if this be any consolation to you,
as you throw down your litt’e red book
on tke Library desk, and exclaim, as
thoisands have done before you, ‘‘Thank |
‘ eavens that’s done,’ remember this, |
[ have heard it remoured, that the Lord's |

Day Alliance is seriously thinking of | |
a| |
hindrance to what otherwise might RAYE

banning themes, because they are

been a peaceful, restful Sabbath.
—Ralph “ Kelly’ Morton.

 

 

WINNERS From the
; Start
For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark .on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that

will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

 

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

  

| LADIES. AND
GENTLEMEN:
YOU WILL FIND THAT OUR

Footwear

SPECIALLY APPEALS
IN STYLE TO

College People
Jee bloke S
Chain of Stores

SPRING GARDEN RD.
BARRINGTON ST.
and DARTMOUTH

    
     
     
         

 

¥

f

- But the night was magic. When a full
harvest moon caressed the smooth lawn
and made spooky shadows behind the
trees and bushes; when the trees looked |
like countless, tiny holes in a big black
umbrella through which a bright light
was shining; when I was permitted to
spend a few moments on the verandah
before going to bed; then I looked upon
a mystic dream-world that surely must
be peopled by fantastic little creatures
that I could not see: then I longed to
dance as did the fairies abo :t which I had
read—-skimming lightly from place to
place, touching the sleeping flowers and
whispering strange things tothe shadows;

then I longed to sing as I shall never sing

’

as no mortal ever will sing, longed to

send my voice floating through the air in

full waves of

heart-stirring me'ody,

mounting higher and hizher, clearer and
softer until the world should listen quiver
ing with mute sympathy, and then my

r

song ended with an erquisite vibrating
note, draw a great sigh and sink to

dreamless slumber.

It is strange that I never think of that

garden as it was in winter.

It does not

seem as vivid with its heavy mant'e of
white, and the sound of wind moaning
through bare black branches: it always

comes back to me with its soft colours,
with the bees droaning in the hot air and
the birds chattering in the leaves above
It is strange, too, that
all these impressions should have crowded
into my little head, to find expression
now after a dozen or more years, but then
everything is strange and wonderful and,

my hammock.

I suppose, twelve years from now things

will be more wonderful still. I wonder!

 

 

—_——— + 
Smo'‘dering Mamma.

“Cot a date with your girl and want to
borrow my slicker? What’s the idea?’

“And that’s only half of it.
know where I can borrow a
helmet?”

Do you
fireman's

—Ltfe.

On the average it takes a year—often
longer—for a new student to grasp the

Dalhousie atmosphere.

Million dollar stadiums do not impart
to an institution of learning, an atmosphere,
It develops, rather, as the result of personal contact between professor and
student, and between student and fellow

student.

   

“YELLOW CAB |

|
LIMITED

   

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

   

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 2) cents extra.

    
 

 

 

George F. Power
Cigars Gigarettes, Tobacos
SMOKERS’

REQUISITES
of every Description.

| | —-Also—
|
:
|

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

 

! Majestic Bldg.
| HALIFAX ss

_To readers of

Hi
|
’
|
i}

The Dalhousie Gazette

|
|
}
i
Hi
IH
)
i}
!

|

|
|

we recommend
: |
Kinley's
In cy S |
THE REXALL |

|

|

9

DRUG STORE

For everything in

Drug Store Needs

 

     
  
   
   
 
   

|
|

 
  
   
   
 
  
    
   
   
 
  
  

 

 

The Greatest Asset of a business is

Job and Society Printing} ——

Nova Print Limited

 

 

 

 

 

Challenge

For the News
When it is News
Read

Come Freshmen gay—
And Freshettes too—
It’s now our joy to welcome you.

THE
HALIFAX
HERALD

AND

And from this day—
Though somewhat new
And green withal—we count on you.

To learn to tend—
The sacred flame—
The soul beneath Dalhousie’s name.

THE
EVENING

That name is yours
Now you are here—
It’s honour now is in your care. |

So guard the flame—
Make it leap high—What gloom at Dal. if it should die!

 

But keep it dear
It's gleam will make—
The tawdy thought seem nought but

 

 

fake;
And all that’s true— gd aE ne Q%
Will glimtier fair— . ° > S
The cherished things will seem more fs

dear. = EEF S stt welsee ZI Ss S

ie ae eee. ae

As each one leaves Se & %, S
He’il bear a spark 4 Bing WY “AN ANd

Throughout the world to banish dark.

On fa On farther still
the glow will spread
As by fresh guardiansi t is fed,

 

 

 

ial Sindenis

Our store is the nearest book store
to your college. You will find
here a good line of all kinds of:

Blank Book;, Loo:e Leaf Books,
Pen3, Pencils, Blotters, Inks,
Fountain Pens;, Eversharp Pencils, Note Paper, Greet _n3 Car\‘s
|| —in fact everything you will need |
|| during your college course you

Till—dare you doubt— |
To worlds afar |
Our world will gleam a richer star.

*

* +

 

will find at this store.
give customers what they want—
when they want it.

| Faulkner Book Store
| 16 Spring Garden Road

 

 

      
    

always delivered when
promised at the

 
   
    
     
 

wd
=
O
O
a
a)

227-229 Hollis Street
One Biock North of Post Office

 

Maiestic

GLOSSOP
 

     
 

. F you intend  play'ng
HARRIS DP sotball this. fall yes
English Repertory will want to inspect our

 
 

f brand new line of gridiron
furnishings.

Company
EVENING AT 8.15
MAT. WED. & SAT at 2.30

strand

VAUDEVILLE and
MUSICAL. COMEDY

 
 

Everything
@ from a whistle toa uniform.

 
    

mee. Recreation Headquarters

1Phinney’s Ltd.

‘ 474 BARRINGTON
STREET

 

   
   

        

 

te

 

Custom

Made $350

FINE INDIGO SERGE of Long
Pure Wool, and Tailored to your
personal requirements. Correct
in Style and fit, and combining
appearance with long service
makes for greater economy.

TUXEDOS--a standard of quality
$45.00

A CALL WILL CONVINCE YOU

scotia Tailors Ltd.

 

479 Barrington St. (Opp. St. Paul’s Ch.)

 

i i Ps sa. 2 , 7
are oe dee ales Ek alin -aall
 
    
    

‘> os true st ry.

I ask you to believe that this is a
There are a few advantages
to true stories: the one which concerns
me now is that in a true story I can say

things which in another story you would

call sentimental.
I want to talk fora moment about an

A Yarn of the Times

mean that you are going to another
college?”

“No, I’m not going to any college. I'll
tell you how it is. I have been kind of
doubtful about college all this summer.
| have been running into all sorts of stuff
in my reading. People saying that college

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

she’s had a deal to do with putting these
silly ideas in his head. I understand
that she has all kinds of wild notions.
She may be scheming to keep John home.
Who knows?”’

“T should not be surprised.”

On the morning of the 28th—not a week

Majestic Notes

The Glossop-Harris Company who were
so popular in Halifax last season have
returned once again and open their new
engagement at the Majestic this week
with two popular successes.

Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday,
with a special matinee on Wednesday
afternoon they will present the charming

| Dr.

7

October 4th, 1926

 

 

 

Thomson Gains
Honour

Dalhousians may view with becoming
pride and modesty the honors being
showered upon graduates, professors and
deans of our Alma Mater.

The latest who has been so honored
is Dr. George Kerr Thomson, Dean of the
Dental Faculty. At the International
Dental Congress held at Philadelphia in

ambition: if you do not like the idea skip | stereotypes men, and that sort of thing. <4 rats . | costume comedy by Anthony Hope pe ete : Bere axe ate Aetna

aie , 1. : « ? |ago—the October Harper's Magazine} «pp. aa, Ae yee et Aa | ead yy epeemiber of this year, and which

along to the next paragraph. The/ Then the other day | ran into an article detevad .. Haar fonndamong cbs articles The Adventures of Lady it rsula’. Cyril 5.” Phsmson attended as official reHarcourt's brilliant comedy ‘‘A Pair of

ambition of which I speak was a rather

spread out affair. It belonged, by the

| —— way, to our principal figure—‘or story
Bee 4 put

ses, John. John was like a balloon
—all blown up with big ideas, tremendous
notions of the Herculean tasks which he
would perform. One day he would think
that he had better be a prime minister;
then he would wonder whether he had

better be a Canadian or a British premier
Another time he
would intend to be a great man in the
business world. Again, he thought of

—that was a puzzler.

being a martyr; but to what? Yet again,

in this month’s Cosmopolitan by H. Gj
That finished me. I'll get the
article.” He took the magazine from a
table. ‘‘Here. Wells says of college:
‘It is too grave a loss of time at a crucial
period; it establishes the defensive attitude too firmly in the face of the forcible
needs of life.’ And, ‘All the antiquated
nonsense of calling people bachelors and
masters and doctors of arts and science
right very well go, with the gowns and
hoods that recall some medieval alchemist
or inquisitor, to limbo. They mean
nothing. There is no presumption that

Wells.

‘Fifteen Years Out’’ in which a college
graduate described his class at a reunion.
John read there: ‘If all they (four years
on the campus) had given us was a certain
half-real sentimental unity, certain common and amusing traditions of horse-play,
a capacity to discuss golf championships
with well-modulated voices, to solve the
riddles of politics-and the cosmos with
nonchalant platitudes, and to lose—
possibly beyond our means—at craps
with genial mannerisms, we did not try
to persuade either ourselves or observers
that the results were otherwise. The

 

Silk Stockings’’ will be presented the
remainder of the week,—with the usual
Saturday afternoon matinee.

For their present tour the GlossopHarris Company present a varied and
extensive Repertoire of Famous
Costume and Modern Plays. Miss Folrence Glossip-Harris is making this a
personal visit and is ably supported by
a strong cast of Fourteen Artists, while
the entire elaborate scenery, costumes and
properties are being carried. Those who
were fortunate enough to see this famous
English Company last yearwill certainly be

 

 

presentative of the Canadian Government, the honorary degree of fellowship
in the American College of Dentists was
formally conferred on him and several
other distinguished members of the
profession.

Dr. Thomson’s paper on ‘Preventive
Dentistry for Under-Graduates,’’ read
before the Congress, received marked
attention and a committee was appointed
to look into and investigate the Dental
situation existing at Dalhousie College
with a view to adopting it in the States.
should the investigation prove favorable.

 

r.- he would be a great actor. And so on.|a man who has a dipioma, or whatever Pe a a ne cee ae Which is iust < xr recogniti
| __‘Theae desires which seethed and churned | they calli of M.A. seven a moderately | oie mont lov and gente! ex | Pack f2 welcome, them, while those who |ng-known fact™that "the Dalhousi
TD _witin hi 1 group togetes under the| elated man” Wall sys tha and 4 /permene in higher cade elveatio |*8Y",80, 98a Ca! opportunity, have| Bena faculty ned bow to pone ater
Y somebody. Do you suppose he had a| can't go to college.” cue ea, ae eevee ies r and high standard of the Company is pe choad ae ne eet
Se: superiority complex? I am not poking} ‘‘Well, John,” his father said, “I don't reed Pa ae ieee 4", | assured. oe ones oe
a fun at the boy; | admire his ambition—| know. This surprises me. I didn’t at, SNES qeakk ee a Fan nek
eco: it is what most of us need. Ambitions] know that you were taking college so ae ect E to tna a = a wae On} F tath\Gollese Hida?

nae like these, though they may be cheap,| seriously. I think that Wells must base pase ee x oa aa Was ane tO Seco pey + Vel f set Lolege; [ didn’t owe a

vc give great promise—the boy who posseses| those opinions not on the colleges, but ee a oe = ah of one’s | cent. BUTTONS ON

. them will, if he gets a chance, do a fine|}on the kind of men the colleges are , sit age re Neciises + thiol Eien vd RT at a eet 43 leave!”

ee job pe ar eake? | Have T aia tines producing. College. lite everything else, ten y nO only college, but high school as ‘hat an awtul time to leave! RENTS MENDED

BS ; a eer was noes depends on yourself. If you go ae to eran A teale® aih, exclaimedt

e, ohn lived in the thriving town of] waste your time, of course you will get s ; Sa gene ese a ————
bi Nowhere, N. S. (That information will pashiie out of it. But if you tackle it| ope ! never hear the name again. i. : Toe Sema HOLES DARNED
oe help you believe that this is a true story.)|right you will find college invaluable.| That evening he proceeded to visit | MACLEOD, BALCOM, |
or He was living there so late as September | The worst thing about college seems to|Flinor, and to talk of what he had said | | —DRUGGISTS— Ltd. | That’s the servi
re 27th, 1926. At that time he planned—| be that it either benefits you or injures that he wished never to hear again. 5 STORES oH ee a ee

or so his people thought—to leave on the| you greatly. I think it depends on the} “Do not forget, John,” she said, “all 34 Morris St 174 Spr. Garden Rd freewhen yov send YOUR
ig 29th for college. On the evening of the}individual. You are foolish if you/the interesting people and books which| || 103 Young St. 139 Agricola St. | Layndry to Ungar’s.
Me: 27th his people were talking about him.| disregard the opportunity which college | you will find at college. What you say | | Cor: Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St. ]
“John’s not so enthusiastic of late| presents to meet boys with interests|is probably true. [ remember one] | cer tone VALETERIA
| | if

about college,’’ his mother was remarking.
“You just imagine that,’’ answered her
husband. ‘‘Why would he feel that way?”
‘“‘He doesn't like the idea of leaving
home, I think. If you will promise not

similar to your own and to get an idea of
the extent of knowledge and the place
of yourself in the universe. Of course
I am not a college man; I don’t know.
You had better think this thing over.”

Christmas when I worked very hard and
was very good so that Santa Claus would
bring me lots of things. Mother did not
like my motive. ‘It is not what you do
that counts,’ she said: ‘it is how you do it.’

 

 

 

Dalhousic Stationery |

 

A new fre ssing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pres
 

ies. to laugh, I'll tell you another reason.| Not until John had left the room did} If you can make a success of life, John | 5
|W ale . . . . e s e . “eT? z ~ - n, |] F1 SI Fis W oe9 >,
be The precious boy, I believe, thinks he is| his father show his agitation. “‘I’m not}you will be able to make a success of | | t Sheets Writing Paper | sed: for 7S 4 Tickits
ie in love with the Smith child—Elinor.| going to force him.to go to college,” he | college.” | stamped with the Dal- ] ze ae Pate ee icK1ts
i You may smile, but that is one of the|said; ‘‘but with all my soul I hope he John walked home that evening very | | hodiie Wrest and’ 2! exw or 92.00.
es reasons that he does not like the college | changes his mind. College, I believe, is|slowly. He found his parents at home— Ae oa 2
te idea.” the greatest preparation for life that a|this was to have been his last night at | | eee FO IMetCe U ;
Il have always wished | home. GAR S

*
,

 

 
     

 

At that moment John arrived on the
scene.

“I’m not going to Dalhousie,” he
announced. |

“What!” ‘You're not... '’ The family
was excited. ‘‘Why,€what’s come over

you, John?" his father asked. ‘You

man can have.
that I could have gone.’ He paused.
“Do you still think that the Smith girl
keeps him home?”

“Yes and no.” His wife answered
seriously. ‘‘It is not for love of her that
he is staying, but I'll warrant you that

As he was leaving the room where
they were sitting, to go to his bed, he
paused a moment.

“Mother, will you please pack my trunk
tonight? And call me in the morning—
in time for the train to Halifax.”’

P. 5B:

 

 

 

The annual meeting of the Student's

~ Medical Society of Dalhousie University

was held in the Munro Room on Monday
evening Sept. 27, at 7.30 p.m. This was
one of the most enthusiastic annual
meetings of the society in recent years
and from the interest shown, it would
appear that the medical society is beginning one of the most prosperous and
progressive sessions of its career.

The business of Monday evening’s
meeting proceeded towards the election
ef officers for the ensuing year 1926-27.

J. W. Merritt °28

D. R. Chisholm’27
Ist. Secty. J. R. McCleave ‘50
2nd. Secty. K. M. Grant ‘29
Executive Member H. L. Scammell '27
Other appointments made at this

meeting were—

Football manager J. M. Beardsley

Basketball ‘‘ W. A. Hewat

Hockey A. E. Murray

Ist. president
2nd _ president

Some discussion followed regarding the
plans of the society for the coming year
and committees were formed for the
coming Medical Dance and for the
entertaining of the Society at its next
meeting. On motion, meeting adjourned.

* * *

CASINO NOTES.

Rudolph Valentino's last and great
est work for the motion picture screen

‘‘The Son of The Sheik”’ opens an engagement of 3 days at the Casino theatre on
Monday October 11th.

“The Son of the Sheik’’ is a sequel to
“The Sheik’ and is from a novel by the
Author of the latter, Edith M. Hull.
Vilma Banky, the exotic Hungarian
beauty play.

Vilma Banky, exotic Hungarian beauty,
has the leading role opposite Valentino
in this production which is being acclaimed
as the late star’s greatest picture.

 

Everything for
FOOTBALL and
BASKETBALL

Special Terms to Clubs.

MacDonald Hardware Co.
| |i Cor. Sackville St.

SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

 

Smart Suits and

Going down to

MADER

to-night?

Sure! See you
down there

 

 

 

FOR MEN
Well-dressed men know that |
Oxfords are necessary to keep up ||
appearances. ‘These very men are

|| the fellows you see daily at

! WALLACE’S buying Oxfords and |
|| Spats. }
OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11 |

|
Wallace Bros.

427 BARRINGTON ST. |

 

———

 

‘NMOL-NMOG AVMY
MIVM NOA Al LING

|
|
|
|

 

Special 50c Box

 

| |

Connolly’s Book Shop

:
487 BARRINGTON ST. |
Opposite St. Paul’s Church. |

Pts ed a

 

 

You get positively |
the Best Service in the City |

at !

LEE’S

 

 

OVERCOAT
or SUIT

TO YOUR MEASURE
Best value in Canada.
ee the many advantages
we offer over sending
away thousands of miles for
your clothes. si ss

1

 

Clayton & Sons

Barr-ngton St.,
Sa_k. 428

LAUNDERING
L CLEAN NG

Hal fax, N.S.
Har. 127
DYEING

VAETERIA

 

 

DAINTY
LINGERIE
and
HOSIERY
for
DAINTY
WOMEN

Crepe-de-Chines
and Rayon

hl Ls i hk bh asics

“ ' z
Onyx Pointex” Z

a

J. LLOYD FRASER, Frop.

:
|
H. 3Y.NOA AVM 3HL SI SIHL Reciisive Satine Rishte faz
Overcoats Se et fre ci Sieben nbescbansceeneieeas We specialize Se oa ain eh ;
Kaye MacDonald of Class '28 is taking FOR COLLEGE MEN | DRUGS im aN eee
the course in Physical Education at McGill | TOILET SUPPLIES TUXEDO SUITS We stock ‘‘POINTEX”
this year. ee $18 $20 $24 | CONFECTIONERY | $24 —_-—
Coe ; - “e TOBACCO 1
Helen Wakeley of Class '29 is taking a Less 10% on presentation of | °
. fae Mattie Busi Collens. 5 | RUBBER GOODS | Th C | Sh
course a e Maritime business College D. A. A. C. ticket at wien | e aro & Op |

The Council of the Students will meet

Tuesday. Every one will await with

bated breath the announcement of the
date for the Council Dance.

 

CONDON’S

BARRINGTON AND PRINCE STS. |

 

 

COR. COBURG AND HENRY

 

 

 

|
|
Freeman’s have’em |

HALIFAX

 

 

Y. M. C. A. BLDG.
Opp. Halifax Infirmary

 

 

 

 

AT THE BAGDAD >

 

   
     
  

- + +

Re WATCH FOR DATE

a

SPECIAL RATES FOR SHERIFF HALL COUPLES FROM YELLOW CAB

 
