     
   
 
   
  
    
      
  

“ad

ah
.

at

=

7

a ae
’ r A ca ; ‘
h a
i iu ey

 

 

|

|

|

ath
uuu

| 7

wit

 

VOL. LXIX.

ATTENDANCE

Song Writers Take Second

 

  

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 27th, 1927

ULE LOSES

©

Place at Sodales

 

STAR CAST OPEN POST-XMAS DEBATE RESULTING IN

TRIUMPH FOR LAW MAKERS

LARGE crowd turned out

to hear a discussion of the resolution

That the popular song-writer may be a
greater influence for good than the lawMiss Avis Marshall and Mr.
Herbert Davidson opened the debate for

maker.

 

Winning Leader

 

  

Arthur Murphy, one of the principals
tn the first correspondence debate.

Open Debates
_ Bring Forth

 

5 Good Fruit

PRELIMINARY TRIALS BRING OUT

MANY SPEAKERS WHO DEBATED
THIS YEAR AT SODALES FOR
THE FIRST TIME

HE preliminary trials for the men's
intercollegiate debating team, which

took place last Tuesday and Wednesday.
brought forth some splendid speaking.
They were in a sense a culmination of
the pre-Xmas open debates; a most
pleasing aspect was that a high percentage of speakers were Sodales products. Thirteen candidates took part
in the trials, which were before a student
committee. The Intercollegiate Committee will make the final choice. On
Wednesday evening, in the absence of the
president, Mr. Walter Darby presided
in his genial fashion. é

Criticism, whose importance it is difficult to overestimate, and experience, will
remedy the most evident faults. On the
whole the debating was good; to have
taken pa is an honour.

The «+ t speaker was Mr. Roy Laurence. !!e is a confident speaker who
will be, when he has learned to speak
a little more carefully, an effective man
on the public platform.

Mr. E. House has a good delivery.

A little variation will make him a con
vincing speaker.
Mr. Woodside is a deliberate speaker
with natural gestures. His argument

_ seemed to lack organization.

Mr. Winfrid Henley brought down the

house time after time with his humorous

 

— sallies.
a : Mr.

His poise is not prepossessing.
Gren Zwicker is a promising
(Continued on Page 3)

 

_ SEE MT. ALLISON HOC

on Mon
day evening to the first regular
meeting of Sodales for the Spring term

  

 

the song-makers; Miss Helen Wickwire
and Mr. Gerald Godsoe did likewise for
the law-makers. Speaking from the
floor, Mr. Ewan Clark, Mr. Ernest House,
and Mr. P. L. H. Muschamp, contributed materially to the discussion.
Mr. Ben Guss thought the debate much
ado about nothing. A vote of the
audience proved the law-makers more
popular than the popular-song writers.

Miss Marshall suggested as an alternative wording of the resolution: That
the results of internal suggestion are
greater than those of external compulsion.
Lyrics irfluence us unconsciously; nor
do they, as law sometimes does, arouse
Opposition. She cited the influence of
lullabies on babies and national songs on
men. Speaking in her engaging way, she
continued to pile up instance after instance of the good influence of song.

Miss Wickwire’s debut at Sodales was
a very happy one. In her the law has
found) a worthy champion. Like a

   
   
   
   
  
  
 

ceeded by pure reason alone. Law is the

| mother of peace and joy; before its in-}ce-tion the life of man was nasty, brutal
_|and short. What the state needs is not

weak sentiment but an infection of

. }humanitarianism—just what the law.
| gives.

Mr. Davidson, with characteristic unbanity, complimented the fair contestants who had preceded him. Among
his chaff were some precious grains of
truth. Law appeals almost entirely to
the instinct of fear while popular songs
appeal to many instincts; they may

All. actions have their spring in the
instincts and emotions. He concluded
by showing how the spirit of ‘sympathy
expressed in such a song as, J Want To
Do What You Do, was the very thing at
which all law-makers were aiming.

Gerald Godsoe made one of the most
happy speeches of the evening. Some
popular songs, he said, have a harmful
rather than a beneficial influence; most
popular songs make an appeal to our
baser feelings. Moral songs are not
popular and the appeal of many songs lies
in the overthrow of the restraint of law.
He closed in humorous vein.

It would do the debate an injustice not
to mention Mr. Ewan Clark’s discussion
of national songs. His graphic account
of how Finlandia aroused a nation must
have rival’ed that, earlier in the day, of
Prof. Walker, from whom he learned the
story.

Among other treats of the evening was
the minutes of the previous debate, which
were both well written and well read.

The next debate will take place on
Wednesday.

ENGINEERS

STAGE PARTY

4 Wee Engineers
again. On January 20th the Engineering Society staged a party which
many of those present, said was one
of the best class parties they had ever
attended at Dalhousie. Seven-fifteen saw
no less than forty couples converging
on the Casino theatre from all parts of
the city, and from that time on they
were in the hands of the capable chairman
of the social committee, Walter Dechman.
After the theatre the party made its way
to the Waeg.

With John Budd at the piano, Jakeman
at the Sax, and Jollimore at the traps,
not to speak of Mrs. Miller in the dining
room the evening passed far too soon.
Prof. MacNeil ably seconded by Prof.
Theakston kept the stags entertained in
the smoking room, while Mrs. Macneil
and Mrs. Theakston kept them busy on
the dance floor.

At one a. m. the last cab left the
Waeg. and at 1.45 the last couple broke
upat the Hall.

lawyer she scorned sentiment and pro
therefore wield a tremendous influence. ;

 

R

Irwin Gets D

In appreciation of Mr. Byron
Irwin, who resigned as Sport
Editor on account of the pressure of work, we are breaking
rules to the extent of awarding
a Gazette D during the session.

Mr. George Mac ntosh, already
a member of the staff. is the new
Sport Editor.

~

 

 

Engineers’ Show
Monday Night

N Monday night we shall see what

the Engineers can do when they cease
for a moment from the contemplation of
more serious problems in the generous
effort to entertain their fellow students.
That special compartment of the engineer’s brain which is given over to
dreams of great projects, that part in
which abides the creative ingenuity
which sends iron ships on the water and
others into the air, is busily exercising on
the problem of a stage production. Nor
will his time be wasted, for the engineer,
who first among men is practical, must,
to reach greater success in his pro‘ession,
have an active imagination.

That there is an esprit de corps among
the boys of this faculty cannot be denied,
nor can it be definitely de‘ined, although
it is surely there and evidences itself on
many occasions and in various ways.
They are a small faculty and very busy,
but they take time to contribute their
full share to the life of the university.
When there is cheering is the Engineer's
yell ever left out? When songs are sung,
do they sing their songs lustily? They
were not quite certain as to whether
amateur theatricals were in their line,
but after all “who pulled Jonah out of the
whale?”’

Of the fifty odd men in Engineering,
thirty-five are in their show, while the
rest will be actively helping in any way
they can. Harry Bell is stage manager
and general liaison officer, while Bob
Doull rehearses the All Engineering Jazz
Orchestra. A play coached by Professor
Theakston has for its cast, Bill Cooke,
John Morton, Skip Currie, Doug. Scott,
Ives Stewart and John Power. At the
conclusion of the first act the audience
will have an opportunity to sing-song
from the Dalhousie Glee Books, which
will be on sale at a booth near the entrance
to the Gym.

An Opportunity

To buy Dalhousie Song Books,
with music, price 50c.

To buy Dal banners, price 75c.
Everybody should have a Song
Book and Banner, so bring your
money to

GLEE CLUB, Monday night
Jan. 31st.

(Don’t procrastinate! You will
not be able to get a book if you do
not get it Monday night—there is
a limited supply in the city, the
whole of which is yours Monday
Night ONLY.)

What’s Doing

27 Engineers vs Commerce (H)

28 St. Joseph’s vs Dal (Inter. B)
Mount A. vs Dal (Sr. H)

29 Dents vs Med (H)
Med vs Law (B)
Dent vs Commerce (B)
Engineers vs Pine Hill (B)
Arts A vs Arts B (B)
Tech. vs Dal (Sr. B)

31 Glee Club (Engineers)

Feb. 1 Law vs Commerce (H)

Class ’29-——’30 Party

2 Dal vs R. C. R. (Inter. B)
So“ales.

3 Med vs Arts (H)

5 Dent vs Engineers (H)
Commerce vs Med (B)
Arts B vs Law (B)

Pine Hill vs Dent (B)
Arts A vs Engineers (B)
Y. M. C. A. vs Dal (Sr. B)

 

of the McGill Daily says: ‘‘The.debate has
‘spectator.

tainly a_ splendid

  
     

 
  

  

TT

a

——
—
—
=
—
—
+
——
<=
a
oxo
ae

|

  

 

  

 

 

NO. 12

 

 

Judges’ Decision 8-6 in Favor
Of Negative

RESULT OF CORRESPONDENCE DEBATE GIVES SEVERE
CENSURE TO COMPULSORY ATTENDANCE AT LECTURES

 

well as instructive occupation and |
highly appreciate the official capacity I
held throughout this Battle of the Written
Word. I would also like to congratulate
the four individuals who took part in
this debate. All very ably introduced
a novel activity into intercollegiate com(Continued on Page 3)

OMPULSORY lecture attendance is

A not in the best interests of the
students is the result of the debate which
has just concluded between Alberta and
Dalhousie. The tribunal of fourteen
judges, who were the editors of the more
important Canadian college papers, voted
eight to six in favour of Dalhousie. All
are unanimous in declaring the success
of the debate and in congratulating the |

 

debaters. The editors from the following
universities voted for Alberta: Manitoba,
Montreal, U. N. B., St. F. X., Acadia, and
King’s. The editors from the following
universities voted for Dalhousie: British
Columbia, Saskatchewan, Western Ontario, Queens, McMaster, Toronto, McGill
and Mount Allison.

The editor of Western U Gazette says:
“The debate was. extremely interesting |
to myself, and | congratulate the two
papers concerned for having sponsored it.”’
The McMaster Monthly wishes to congratulate the debaters. The ecitor of the
Sheaf, University of Saskatchewan, considers the debate very close.. The editor

Strong Support

been extremely interesting to follow,
even for one who is merely a disinterested
I imagine then that it must
have created considerable interest in the
two universities concerned. It is cerway of overcoming
geographical difficulties.”’

The editor of the Brunswickan says:
“TIT should like to congratulate Mr.
Sweeney on his originality in this form of
debating,-—a style that was both engaging
and clever. It appeared to me that there
was more of argument in his articles than
his opponents admitted; at the same time,
however, his allegorical abstruseness tended to weaken rather than to strengthen
some of his points. Mr. Murphy also
deserves to be complimented on_ his
clearness and form and a _ journalistic
skill that is characteristic of controversial
editorials.

“The young ladies of the debate also
made very creditable contributions, their
styles were perhaps more methodical,
and their language showed the  influence of the social sciences.

“Both Universities should be very well
pleased with this experiment which has
undoubtedly been followed closely by all
the students whom the exchanges reached.
It is quite probably that your initiative
in this fie'd will result in similar enterprises between other Universities.’

The editor of the Xaverian Weekly
says: ‘‘I found the judging of this novel
journalistic encounter an interesting as

DAL AND
THE POETS

 

Freda Winfield, member of the team
which won from Alberta tn debate.

To Debate

Hazing of
Freshmen

FRESHMEN VERSUS SO; HOMORES
ON ABOLITION OF HAZING AT
SODALES NEXT WEDNESDAY NIGHT

 

 

“RESOLVED that initiation of freshmen should be abolished,” will be the
subject of the next Sodales debate which
will be held in the Munro room on Wednesday, February 2nd. The affirmative
side of the question will be upheld by
Miss Frances Elkin and Mr. Stewart
Allan; the negative by Miss Elizabeth
Colpitts and Mr. Reg Baxter.

Mr. Stewart Allan is president of the
freshman class. Heisa clear thinker and
has a good presence. He gives promise
of becoming one of Dalhousie’s coming
men.

Miss Frances Elkin is a freshette who
is rapidly coming to the fore. She is
freshman representative on the Students’
Council.of Shirreff Pall and very
popular with her classmates.

Miss Elizabeth Colpitts is a sophomore with a brilliant scholastic record.
She received a scholarship upon entering

Sir:—The man I quoted was _ not
Mansfield, but John Masefield, one of
England’s and the world's greatest living
poets. I didn’t censure a prof. because
his opinions didn’t coincide with Archer’s.
I censured one prof. for having no opinion
at all on Canadian poetry, and another
prof. for calling Wilson MacDonald
‘fa sleight-of-hand artist."’

MacDonald is the third Canadian
poet to visit Halifax since I came to Dal
and at each recital students have been
conspicuous by their absence.

At Wolfville last week not only did the

is

 

students of Acadia turn out in large| college and another at the end of last
numbers but they bought the poet’s| year. She is bright and sparkling in
newest book enthusiastically. It is al-| expression.

most certain MacDonald will receive a
similar welcome at Mount Allison, and
St. F. X. assuredly loves literature.

Mr. Reg Baxter is president of the
Sophomore Class and Secretary treasurer
of the Glee Club. He is a forceful
It seems too bad that Dal should be the | speaker and the possessor of a dominant
one college in the Maritimes to turn the| personality.
cold shoulder on Canadian writers. The oe
fault may lie with the faculty or with the A Scotchman was being measured for

students themselves, but» undoubtedly|a suit. His tailor inquired about the

we lack something the other colleges positions of the pockets and received

POSSESS. ab Ta ait this answer—‘‘Mak’ them deeficult to
PIC rou get at.”’

 

KEYISTS PLAY DAL TO-MORROW NIGHT

 
  
  
  
   
     
     
      
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  

 

_ - FRE little Devonshire
_ -# ~Tideway sulked under the driving

 

return!”

 

eae "4 another of the gentlemen.

 

ee eee ree hae SR TAR a nS gene
he Dalhousie Gasette —
Bre 3 (Founded 1869). BEN oer aes

| Editor, ~
ANDREW HEBB.

Ro SS

ns te By ta

aime cere at ans d
__. Associate Editors:

ee ee Be

AVIS MARSHALL

_ FREDA WINFIELD ... HERBERT DAVIDSON
JAMES A. FRASER
—- GEORGE MacINTOSH

tage

- 4

< Gazette D's:
MARY A. BERESFORD
J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
F. A. CRICHLOW
SIDNEY GILCHRIST
BYRON IRWIN
ARTHUR L. MURPHY

epee ee Business Manager.

 

 

he age: J. J. LYSONS ATWOOD
Bee ts Ss. | b> 348 Robie St.
~ Phone S. 1935

Aer Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year.

Say It At Sodales

ODALES Debating Society is beginning to occupy its
S rightful position in the life of the University. The

 

 

 

’ meetings are so successful that everybody and the college

cannot help but benefit.

A debating society, it seems to us, can be a very important part of the university. Everybody knows how necessary
it is for a leader of any kind, and how valuable it is for anyone,

to be able to express herself or himself in public. A debating

-- society has something to contribute to the university also.
‘Students from the whole university meet there, as they do in

no other activity, as students.

- the university consciousness,

One result is to strengthen
which redounds to the ben
efit. of every activity, academic or otherwise. A good debating society will cause, for example, a larger attendance

at the games.
type of student.

Another result is bringing to light a good
There is a large group whom neither

athletics nor society bring to the front: it is well to round
out these activities by the addition of a more intellectual one.
__ Then of course debating is in itself so enjoyable.

-- . Sodales can become, we

think, a real student forum,

a centre which will radiate vitality and inspire the whole

7

concern, in a debating society alone.

___adian Student of a year ago says: ‘‘Students should form, and

learn to express, opinions on current events and on the

5 ‘oblems. which face the world—their sources and possible
medies. In the formation of such opinions, and as a medium

tion in their presentation, the art of debating should
yortance among university activities.’”

rie

  
 
   
  
      
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  

   
 
  

       
      

inners

=

     

 

Ses ue oe. ae bet ar’ , «=. * + oy 4
re eg) ei eer he oe
os .

y

village of

rain which slashed angrily through the

: rome rattling on the roof of the little old

chapel and onthe roof of The Golden
Barque Tavern. The wind howled and a
steady roar met the ears as the sea

oe pounded mercilessly against the rugged

cliffs. Within The Golden Barque, however, the noise of the storm merely
furthered the comfort of the warm tavern.
The friendly glow of the fire played on the
walls, showing, here, an old cutlass, here,
a Spanish candlestick, probably the loot
of some privateer, here, a model of a
Dutch three-decker. Seated around the
fire were some ten or twelve convivial
spirits, singing, chaffing, and imbibing
hot grog.

“‘Come, Simon Benner,"’ shouted one,
“give us a song.”

“T’. faith,” -replied Simon, “‘I can’t
sing, but I'll read you a new poem from
London.” .

“Read on Simon; some of these London
songsters have a right merry wit. Who's
our writer?”

“A young poet, yclept John Milton
—another glass, landlord!”’ 
“Bravo! ~Let’s hear the poem! What
say you, Amblechuck?”

The gentleman thus addressed, who
had been dozing by the fire, woke up.
“Surely, let’s all go home,” said he and
promptly went to sleep again. Simon

- began to read. The company listened

quietly until he came to the lines,
“Por Lycidas is dead, dead ere his prime,
_ Young ‘Lycidas, and hath not left
his peer.”

“How now?" cried one of the group,

“‘an't were a sad verse.”’
“What matter, Lilch, ‘tis a welcome
change from our jests”, said another,

“but, forsooth, let’s keep our spirits up

with a drink all round!”

This proposal was instantly adopted,
even Amblechuck woke up long enough
to have a drink. Simon, being thus
fortified, read on...... |

“But oh! the heavy change, now thou
art gone,

“‘Now thou art gone and never must
“By'r lady, sirs,”’ said Simon, ‘‘that's
a pretty bit—but let us on.”’
Simon read on, rather falteringly, as
the pathos of the poem gripped him.
“Where were ye, Nymphs, when the
remorseless deep
: “Closed o'er the head of your loved
RGMIHEE Mle ho |
- Here a stifled sob broke out from

  

os

ae ke fe Loe ae Fey a eo aS + a fit y i ee “
fy ay Pett OT RA eee ean Sn ee. Bee eae ke

university. There is every reason for Sodales to occupy a
_ position similar to that of a Union in the British universities.
We can think of no greater boon to student life.
students can consider problems, which are the student’s main

As a group

A writer in the Can
 

Reading of Lycidas

 

**Come lad, don’t let it effect ye thus;
take another drink and drown your
sorrows.”

‘*Yes, yes’, cried the company, “‘let’s
all have another drink.”

They drank and once again Simon
resumed his reading.

“To sport with Amaryllis in the shade,

“Or with the tangles of Neaera’s hair?”

Amblechuck woke up.

‘Ah!’ said he. The group frowned at
him and he went to sleep again.

“And daffodillies fill their cups with
tears,

“To strew the laureate hearse where
Lycid lies.”

Here the landlord sank to a chair and
buried his face in his hands, his shoulders
shaking convulsively. Simon read on,
his voice trembling with emotion. :

“Ay me! whilst thee the shores and
sounding seas

‘“Wash far away, where’er thy bones
are hurled;”

At this stage, many of the gentlemen
completely broke down and wept on each
others’ shoulders. Once more drinks
were passed around and once more
Simon began afresh.

“For Lyshidas, your shorrow, ish not
dead,

“Shunk though he be beneath uh
warrery floor.”

On and on he read, his faltering voice
mingling with the sobbing of the company
and the noise of the storm. Almost
imperceptibly the sound of the storm

seemed to drown the other noises. The
sobbing grew less. Simon's faltering
increased.

“Now, Lyshidash, the Shepherds weep
no more;

“Henceforth. ..thou...art...the...”

Silence reigned inside the tavern,

contrasting with the roar of the storm
outside. Amblechuck woke up.
“Marry, the parlous knaves are all

asleep!”
—W. G. A. '29.

Dallusiensia

This week’s questions are:

_1. When did undergraduates have a
literary Club?

2: What Dalhousian has been called
Nova Scotia's leading citizen?

3. In what were the members of
the Royal Society of Canada for Nova
Scotia chosen from the faculty of Dalhousie?

a L ; 7 
2
* -- ae a pee
Ls et git J

4 7 ar A rcs § =
OS WSS pal oa

igs
v=

ee, 5

  
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

“RETURN TO NATURE”

The maiden donned her shoes and frock
And put her powder on;

Her cheeks received a tint of rose,
With Winx eyes brightly shone.

She touched her hair with gentle pat;
She chose a kerchief fine;

A soft white cloak she tightly wrapped
About her form divine.

She crossed the hall with queenly air,
Full well her grace she showed;

The man was waiting eagerly,

His clothes the latest mode.

Without, the wind howled loud and
roared,

The rain began to fall;

No cab had Tom, the lax, supplied—

They walked out to the Hall.

The rain soon soaked her hair so neat,
Her rouge was somewhat streaked,
Black oil did from her lashes run,
Nature had vengeance wreaked.

GARRA GLEN

Hidden in the hills, by stern hills encircled,
Lies Garra Glen, a valley of the deer;
In the summer silence, and the golden
noonday,
Arched above with blue, deeply-domed
and clear.
In Garra Glen, in the deep corrie,
Cold is the air, and the wind is free;
Down from the little dark loch of
the corrie
_ The Burn of the Sheep sings to the sea.

The black peat, worn and seamed, is
fretted into gullies
By the thaws of spring-time, and by
summer rain;
Crystal springs arise, little torrents
wander
By trunks of age-old trees that will not
leaf again. .
In Garra Glen, in the great corrie,
Golden and sweet cloud-berries grow;
From the dark peat the little white
bog-star
Shines like the summer's last flake

of snow.
—M. A. B.

Ste Pe Fe pes me et es ee me Se ee Oe Pe Pe ee Fe oe

|. MERSE OR WORSE __ ;

nm me EF pe et ne Pe Pe Ps ps oe OF

TO A WHITE BIRCH

Slim and arrogant still, you stand

Smiling through tears of rain.

For the passionate sun had thought you
won,

But you turned to the wind again.

Anda tall, dark pine had found you fair,

He sang in a soft, sweet strain.

But your feminine whim would have none
of him

And you turned to the wind again.

Whitely you smile beneath the stars,
For the moon had wooed you in vain.
Your lips were chaste in a cold distaste,
And you turned to the wind again.

Though the wind be mocking and cold
and cruel,

And will wring your heart with pain,

Though your lips be kissed by the tender
mist,

Yet you turn to the wind again.

SHINE

They say in the old-fashioned days,
‘Twas considered the acme of praise
To tell a fair lass,

Whom you happened to pass,

You admired her bright shining face.

Now Dame Fashion says ‘‘shine’’ is passe,
So 'tis speedily banished away,

And the girl who would please,

Must use lots of Coty’s

And such forms of patented clay.

TREES

[ think that I shall never see

A poem lovely as a tree.

A tree whose hungry mouth is prest—
Against the earth’s sweet flowing breast;
A tree that looks at God all day,—
And lifts her leafy arms to pray;

A tree that may in summer wear

A nest of robins in her hair;

Upon whose bosom snow has lain;

Who intimately lives with rain.—
Poems are made by fools like me,
But only God can make a tree.

—Joyce Kilmer.

 

SO ek ek ee ee Khem Le te ed

; Memoirs of a Young Man at College

*
2 Se Ok ee ee a SE 6 Fk Pe Pe Fe ee St ot rt ee EF

N my father's side, the Smiths
(I need hardly say) have been

‘|\famous since Colonel Harry Smith—who

came out with Cornwallis—was discovered
with his hand in another officer’s pocket.
He was subsequently run through in a
duel for insulting remarks about the
same officer; who was, he said, a mean
drivelling little white rat, who had no
pretensions to either money or honor,
and was only in the army because of the
shortage of gentlemen.

He used to say that his one vice (apart
from an hereditary taint of a lack of
money) was-a love of low company:
he knew intimately, sundry persons
whose surnames had an Mc:or else an
Mac at the head of them; saying roundly, that although they had (some of
them) so far escaped the gallows, there
was no doubt that they and their descendants would come to no good end,
and the province would be sorry for them.
His foresight has been remarkably established; and some of the more notorious,
in tkis city at least, have managed to
make one of the Colonel’s descendants
smart; and others of the students as well.

His son, great grandfather, went back
to England for his education; but protested, before he died, that he learned
too much there: thus anticipating by
one hundred and forty years Mr. Wells’
doubt of the usefulness of the University.
Having followed his teachers too closely,
he blamed his early training for his
unfortunate end on the gallows. In
his last moments his son, my grandfather,
was near him; but unable to see, or to
comfort him. This was not because the
hanging was a private function: on the
contrary, the affair brought large crowds,
which was of course very flattering to
great grandfather. The restriction was
due only to the prudence of certain
officials of the city jail, who would not
allow the young man to leave, even
under guard.

It hardly seems that such stringency
should be the regular thing, even in a
jail; and the only answer that I can see
to this difficulty, is that the authorities
had too great a respect for his ability
to take any chances with him.

This tribute to grandfather's es ariticn |

so early in his career, undoubtedly
presaged the great things that lay before
him in the realm of politics. He was
speaker, minister, and failed of being

The answers to last week’s questions:

1. The Law School was founded in
1883.

2. Thirty-five hundred copies of a
paper called the Dalhousian were printed
and distributed every two weeks between
May 5th and July 23rd 1914—six numbers in all. It was designed to advertise
a campaign for a Students’ Building.

3. At one time the University gave the
degree of Bachelor of Letters.

premier only by the sum of three hundred
dollars: having only seven hundred to
offer the caster of the deciding vote,

| which went.at a thousand, and my father,

subsequently and unjustly the victim of
his enemies’ persecution in some matter
of bribery, and convicted in court without
any conclusive evidence, was thereby ruined
and left to return to private life on three
hundred and forty thousand dollars.

There is one thing about grandfather
of which 1 am reminded whenever I
look into a mirror. On the occasion to
which I have referred above, a_ jailvisiting clergyman was sO unwise as to
call on him; and after some conversation,
‘Young man,’ said he warmly, ‘I have
rarely seen a more unrepentant spirit—’

‘Thank you, Sir,’ said my father.

‘—and a more villainous face,’ added
the other.

To that, it is not- known what my
grandfather said; as for what he did,
it must be urged in his defence that he
never liked Episcopal clergymen; and if
the clergyman was not able to preach for
some time, neither was my grandfather
able even to see his friends and that for
a longer time.

I am impelled at this distance to defend
my kinsman. The remark was not in
that taste to which gentlemen are accustomed; moreover, it was untrue: we have
been noted, these six generations, for
beauty of feature. I resemble him
closely, and know how unjust that
statement was. I have often been told
that my social success at Dalhousie has
been due to my good looks alone: it is a
fine vindication of grandfather. My
face has gained me entrance into every
sort of exclusive place. The result is a
great popularity, comparable to his, and
not to be equalled today even by a janitor
of the Arts Building. Who else but I
could speak to high and low alike, with
such freedom? To football D’s, class
presidents, sophomores, one moment,
and to professors the next?

The reader must not at this point
misunderstand me. No one could be
more careful than I, in choice of intimates;
apart from a natural care for my social
position, the relations between myself and
the Senate have too frequently been
strained, for me to lend countenance
to their doings; but there can be no
objection to speaking to them about the
University.

 

Mount A meets Acadia this year in the
Maritime debating league. The meeting
will be a crucial one, each college according to the Argosy having won since the
inception of the league seventeen debates
and lost six.

Professor Montpetit of the University
of Montreal will deliver the Webster
lectures on Canadian History at Mount
Allison this year.

 

| mean Not US?

January 27th, 1927

re ener

Gray Days

WE are starting the gray days of our
college year. We have been here
long enough for the full grey of our
courses to have worn off. e thrill

 

|and the content of the Christmas holidays

are but memories which might be years
away.

Because of the sameness of these days,
they are almost monotonous. Especially
is that so this year, since the weather has
prevented .any enjoyment in winter
sport.

But for all that, the gray days have a
charm which is entirely lacking those
earlier, more interesting ones. There is
practically nothing worthwhile doing in
them but working and thinking. And
as they are apt to be the basis of any
satisfaction we have with our college
year. What we do in them, we feel to
have been done because for once, work
was the most attractive thing that there
was. Those in charge of societies and
activities find it a hard period, particularly of those from which the individual
student can only gain a benefit proportional to the effort which he is willing
to put forth.

But here again, it is in this very period,
with its gray days, that these activities
justify their existence. Because then,
students do not appreciate them for the
sake of their novelty or entertainment
but for their real worth.

Let us try and get the most out of
these gray days. They are solid gray
rocks, on which foundations may be
built.

 

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

 

A pleasant feature of the trial debates
was some new remarks on prohibition,
both arguments and jokes.

*x* * *

We do not suppose that anyone felt
badly about the price of the Council
Dance—nor even if it had been refunded
as a door-prize! If indeed anyone was
broken up he certainly was not broke.

The Newman Club held a very successful dance last Wednesday.
x * &

Is N. U. S. at Dalhousie going to

* * ¢

Whoever coined the phrase ‘‘blue
Monday” didn't calculate on the Dalhousie Glee Club.

* *k

The Sodales executive have expressed
their willingness to consider the suggestion of any student as to a subject for
debate.

x *

Some Dalhousians held a large and
live dance at Nelson Hall last Wednesday.
We have been unable to find out who
was supplying the ‘‘auspices.”’ No, it
wasn't the Newman Dance.

Dumbness

 

1. An Eng. prof. who thinks Scott
Fitzgerald wrote that famous book
“The Plastic Age.”’

2. A senior who asked her escort why
college boys shouldn't see‘“The Temptress’

_3. A soph who publicly blamed her
discontent on the fact that people never
asked her ‘‘to do little things” for them!!

4. A soph who asked who ‘‘Stan”’ is
and what he does.

5. A boy who sees his woman down
town at five—who, on calling at seven
and being told she's sick in bed, says he’s
sorry and promptly sends flowers.

Can you beat them?

?

’

 

A Student’s Position

If eager youth with shattered hope
And disillusioned eye

Before Dalhousie’s staff doth raise
A discontented cry,

‘Tis not because ungrateful he
Misprises service done

Nor has no pride in that high place
Her scholarship has won.

"Tis not because he values not
The discipline of mind

Which makes the careless and the rough
Exacting and refined;

But that his heart impatient beats
When ’tis so plain to see

The contrast twixt Dalhousie now
And what she well might be.

 

The dream that we as students have
That here a youth should find
Not only facts, but something more
Aue stimulate his mind;
at e’er youth’s rosy dawn has
To noon’s far duller blue wee
Not only should he book lore learn
But see a vision too
No doubt professors grave and learned
With unsquelched freshmen share.
So then let prof and student climb
New heights to clearer air—
Walk both together; but if one
Suggests a better plan,
Let not the other quit the quest
But rather be a man.

 

_ A McGill Daily interviewer finds that
in the opinion of the men of McGill there is
an ideal girl. No two opinions ag-eed as
to her qualities.

 
—————

oe mene ee ye ee , Sera
ae eS ye pee ame, Se See + ee ‘ Rey at , tate a co a = +h ‘
ee ee e wae > Saas % Regs ee SRE .
a ri rs ‘a ‘es my ee. +y m C ; ; r _ = - 
, ah 7 hi wee 5 mw et =

‘ Fs ~ fog? 4 & : * = es se 4

EB a ae 3 Ae :

‘” ¥ . » ~ ~

1927. DALHOUSIE GAZETTE. cae p Page Threr

Sere . Bon a ie . : yh
i “aah haste Sates he.
oP tg? nag

 

4 - so ae
ee ee ae neeeeeneidinmened Te

 

 

 
 
    
    
   
   
 
 
   
    
  
    
   
 
 
  

, = ‘ 9 2... @ Se PE PS Fd Fs Fs Ee PS FE Ps FETE PS Ft Pk PE PE es Pk PS PE | . °
Judges’ Decision =f” as A Prescription

on Dreams ! “HEAL sa
ie Rowena Gould ) TH 2nd HAPPINESS

/ i 1. A friendly thought for everyone
mt mt te eee PE ee ps Ps es Pe es SF you meet.

2. A friendly smile wherever vou
“That is an odd bird,” he chuckled, | think it would not be misunderstood.
pointing to her other companion. ‘‘He 3

 

 

(Continued: from page 1.) !

petition and all deserve credit for the
manner in which they advanced arguments
in favor of their respective contentions.
“After a serious consideration of all
arguments my conclusion is that the
representatives of the University of

,OT but grieve when the sumdies, for the summers that come
youth will not return. We shall
Ider and our eyes will grow dim,
do not dream to see again such a
in those June nights leaned over a
1 where dwelt all my dear delights.
I cannot again hope to see such

(With apologies to Alice in Wonderland)

eat dees there, - ee that eae ee eee VELYN wanted to write. The|has that eye there so that he can see anes A friendly word for every acquainthall not always wait for them so joy- | ‘ ta -Ppathavial : g urge to write an immortal novel,|atound corners without going around| 4” i od mee oss
ly. When I leave behind me the|!0": while Dalhousie relied to a great] .. poem that should last long after she| himself. It is the only solution for an eae - friendly act. wherever ‘you can

extent on a statement of facts.

“As a closing word I would advocate
that this become an annual event between
the six Maritime Colleges, with three
debates, modelled on the Maritime
Intercollegiate Debating Regulations, conducted each year.”

“The editor of The Varsity says: ‘‘The
debate has proved very interesting, and,
I think, well worth while. The discussion was well sustained on both
sides. It is my own opinion that the
subject gave the advantage of superior
weight of logic to the negative; I think

inquisitive lazy person.”’
‘Are you the persons who brought me
here from home?”’ asked Evelyn.

died or even an acceptable short story
was so strong that she decided to work
on the principle of opening her mouth
and having it filled. She took paper
and pen and sitting in front of the fire
gazed into the heart of the coals for
inspiration or plot or whatever should
come to her. But minutes passed and
no ideas came. She began to think that
very probably she was not a _ genius.
As she continued to gaze, the long wavery
shadows on the wall grew longer and more
wavery. They seemed to swoopdown
upon herand surround her very closely.

To be applied with a liberal use
of the lubricant of humor—the thing
that makes us human.

nd of Youth, those fragrant whispers
the Infinite will be out of touch with
- dimmed over by age.
Round my garden to the east there are
ven trees of the silver birch, and
igh their delicate veil of fluttering
airy verdure shone the first Stars
Spring. Oh, pearly, sweet stars,
trembling young stars of the amber
it, when the world is swept away
will shine still in the immortal
_ dreams of lovers. How often I have
watched you glowing in serene skies,

“Oh, yes,’’ answered Lemew, for that |
was his name. ‘‘We always look worse | |
in your land than in ours. The green],
light does it,’’ he explained after a pause
in which Evelyn could think of nothing
suitable to say. She did not think it
was necessary to make any reply to this,
for she was quite sure the light was blue
but she was too afraid to say so. At
length she ventured to talk to her right

Recommended for all Patients and
m-patients; especially for those who
uffer, or make others suffer, from a
sour spirit.

Fully guaranteed or price refunded—by

Yours truly,
C. BURNELL OLDS,
Okayama, Japan.

sai,¢

while above and around mingled light,

 

[ Tadance andthe perfume of shadowy the speehen bear this assumption out | She" eared up iy andthe all band companion. "Its very eda" | CAUTION--Preition not got i
blossoms. little brook of violets|that most resolutions give a slight ad- retreated silently and flattened themselves | 41d S rh; 0 2DSWET” Came. GO SUE Salt IE kent tooslong before using.

ee _ There was a ittle ae 40 vn en Wahtise v6 ene’ sitie aut leave Wothes against the walls. Laughing at her own again. ry 1S time a non-committal
* beneath Sipe hao a caiaindn samme iecclcaeaae Am ke bricks without straw. Thus| {4 Evelyn sat down again and stirred “Humph”’ greeted her and she lapsed

_and one day there came a stir amongst make bricks wit the fire. Once more the lengthening | into silence again. She rather expected

the resolution. in a Correspondence
Debate should be very carefully chosen;

. Lemew to say something but all three

their closely folded leaves. Then I shadows crept around her and she decided

knew that the fragrant life that woke
first in the dewy and secluded places,
was waking those tender exiles into

bloom. Are the old legends of the
_ flower-souls all untrue? Lying so close
- to the dreaming heart of earth, did those
violets beneath. my trees of birch re- member not the sweet places where
they were woven first into the garland

ee Spring? Had they no memory of
that vale of green shadow, of that streamlet that passed ever singing to the sea,

   
  
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
  
 
  
   
 

_ speechless children? ;
___ Every Spring my garden was gay with
ae daffodils. Once a poet made a sweet
song about the daffodils and how they
used to come to him in visions, glad-. dening his pensive dream. When they
_- grow here, looking up to dewy skies, as
_ if they drew their beauty from immortal

not with careless feet that 1 would pass
over your tombs.

here was a red rose beneath the south

oe the cold winds,
inst the bosom of |

oar nild ’ bs “ey e led es
e. All the pale young blossoms

- had fallen from the mantle of the
waited for the rose, for the Queen
» breating heart of beauty, for the
onate, sweet story of loveliness
‘born to die. One morning over my
~ seven trees of the silver birch up rose
_ the sun-rays, golden and broad. Then
came the wind of the dawn breathing
and singing upon the garden ways.
_ There was a new stir amidst the pale
' young flowers, and countless soft whispers
es! Falling like dew, more on the sense than
on the outward ear. I hastened along

hild before the threshold |

speaker. —
culty which he can easily overcome.

Mr. Binney - Fairbanks speaks. well.
He might well model his bearing on his
natural manner of speaking.

Unnatural gestures somewhat marred
the fine appearance of Mr. James Fay.
He is a pleasing speaker.

Talking in his easy way Mr. P. L. H.
Muschamp delivered a speech which
showed thinking.

Mr. Ralph Morton is a forceful speaker.

Mr.

for in this form of debating, where the
judging is done at leisure, matter will
count for more and manner less than in
oral contests.
debate, wit and verbal cleverness will
triumph over a slight preponderance of
reason on the other side;
likely in cases like the present one.
In a debate by mail there must be a
great weight of evidence on each side of
the resolution; ‘
almost foredoomed to failure. While

Often, in the ordinary

this is not

otherwise one side is

even it is not beyond cavil in this regard;
and the fact that it suggests the possibility
of infinitely more unfair resolutions 1s
what prompts my criticism.
of Dalhousie will perhaps not agree with
me that the weight of evidence is obviously against compulsory

The faculty

attendance at

ments presented, but also with respect to
the manner of presentation.
“Permit me

those

to congratulate

Open Debates
(Continued from page 1)
Faulty enounciation is a diffi
 

He

to let them come. ,

As she gazed, the nearest took the
shape of a grotesque one-eyed creature
that shook his fingers at her and said:

“Silly thing! Examinations are coming.
And you must know why Alice grew
larger, when she ate the fruit-cake in the
rabbit’s house.”

“But why?” asked Evelyn.

“‘Because Peter Abelard was really
composed of atoms,” stated the creature
solemnly.

looked at her, with eyes the size of
butter-plates, and said reassuringly
“Don't be afraid of him. Everyone
knows that poor Peter really was composed of electrons, and was born without
any moral sense whatsoever.”’

When the first figure heard this his

tainly.
“Oh, that’s easy,”’ replied Saucer-eyes
airily. ‘‘Because olivine is green and

“Humph,”’ retorted the-One-eyed phantom, ‘If she doesn’t get any of yours
she'll do all right.”

Evelyn felt herself being carried off
backwards and downwards in true fairystory manner, until the darkness began
to grow less and the redness of the
atmosphere turned bluish. She was not
at all aware of her companions until she

| found herself suddenly walking backward

very fast, while two little creatures walked
beside her,—likewise going lobster fashion. One was like a_ half-grown grey
kitten with the head of a little lion, and
wore a light coat of pink brocade with
silver braid and buttons. It had a
merry smile and big twinkling eyes, and
Evelyn decided that she liked it very

continued to walk backwards and Evelyn
turned her attention to the place through
which they were passing.

On one side there was a wall with
pictures and long things that looked
like rugs hung up by one end. Some
were bright purple, others green, red,
yellow, a few pink like Lemew’s coat,
but most were dark or light blue. When
she looked to the right side however it
seemed that there was a broad blue lake
with trees and statues standing up all

Evelyn began to say how odd
all this looked, when Lemew told her
to be still for they were entering the
presence of the Queen of the Island.
She could not see anything different,
but gradually the left hand wall began
to recede and the lake seemed to float
upwards and away. Evelyn wondered

interesting. She thought she heard music,
and said so, but Lemew said ‘‘Shush”’
and her right hand companion glared at

that she was walking or that there was
anyone with her. It seemed that she was
standing quite still and that her ears
were stretching up and out. Suddenly
a large volume of Latin poetry was
lowered, open, in front of her. Evelyn
was so surprised that she shrieked and
everything around her became very
quiet and then began to whirl round and
round. Blue, purple, yellow and pink,
all spun and spun and grew lighter and
brighter until Evelyn landed with a
thump in her own chair. The fire had
gone out and someone had turned on the
light,

“I knew I was studying too much”
said Evelyn to herself.

   
  

A FRIEND OF THE
COLLEGES

The
Hlorning Chronicle

AND

of yon chaste silence, broken only by : ; : oe -  ..._|Over it: here and there wicker chairs C e €benin Gr
ae ; Sj the subject in the present case is un- Evelyn looked around her in con : ; 0
_ the clear, wild calls of God's innocent, Needae dly eek een one,|fusion, and the next biggest shadow a and footstools grew up out of the . q

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours

THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers Potted Plants

places, t lossoms fallen from | lectures! sh at eye flashed and he stepped menacingly| if they were goi d rater, and ; ‘ ; es
the fac red ia a which the sad souls} “I may say that it is my opinion that, | toward Butter-plate-eyes and asked him shuddernel Phe Oke ae sok bl oe Hn Funeral Designs,
of mortals often steal in dreams. Oh,| in the debate just ended, Dalhousie had| how he could support that theory since} around and see. However since she| do Tab De ting. W ve. oe
“little golden flowers that the soft wind the best of their opponents, not only|the fourth form of composition was} did not feel cold or wet or choky she oaly rea ahees FMC E D Cae,
uttered, where are you now? It is|as regards the logical value of the argu-| argumentation and parbleu meant cer-| kept on for the experience was decidedly| We can wire Flowers to all dase a

the world.

THE ROSERY

standing out of the shadow of the ence for the debate on its success, there is no such thing as red plagioclase | her and said nothing.
xe, facing the bright sun bravely, and your debaters on the showing they | feldspar. But let us take Evelyn to the Gradually the music grew and grew 8 BLOWERS ST.
_ the garden w ited for made. , ‘Island of Ideas. She can take away as| until it seemed to come from all sides and Phone Sa . 3321-3322
: , but it shut | many as she pleases.” : she was so delighted with it that she forgot Night P one Sac. 1934

 

  

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend

__ my mossy way, and lo, as I came, standing
a Es up bravely to the sun_ shone the red
ose. The Queen of the flowers had
come at last to show the earth her beauty
ere she died.

IT opened my window last night and
listened in the darkness. A soft wind
came sighing across the barren fields as
a voice mourning for the sweet glad
Then the

Powell has a good voice.
His argument was

He is

  
   
 
  
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
  

much. The other one was like a bird
with a unicorn’s head, and its one eye
was on the tip of its horn. It wore a
long green coat with flappy tails. At
least Evelyn thought the coat was green.
It might have been yellow in the blue
light, she could not be sure, While she}
was looking at it the little creature on
her left laughed to himself.

Kinley's
FRE RES ALY
DRUG STORE

should vary his tone.
pertinent.

Mr. Ben Guss thinks on his feet.
perhaps too confident.

Mr. Whalen will make an _ orator.
He is a strong speaker, though inclined
to neglect the points at issue.

The last speaker was Mr. Walter Ross,
a veteran already. He more than maintained the high standard of the trials.

  
 

than ‘‘just Diamonds’’. Flawless purity and exquisite perfection
in cutting and mounting have
raised the BIRKS DIAMOND
to the standard of the ‘‘gem of
of gems”’.

things that were no more. _
_ world hushed and was very still. When
summer dies the earth lies silent. Her
heart is full of memories so is the heart
of one whose feet have wandered far
_ from a garden where grow seven trees
Of the silver birch.

xt —M. A. B.

ro Dealer’s Text Book.

oS
whe °* 9

~ Dalhousie’s O. T. C.
as
men (Chorus)
Sing all ye angels of Heaven above
> _. For Dalhousie’s O. T. C.
~ ___ Let all the nations show their love
-___ For Dalhousie’s O. T. C.
(Basso profundos, falsettos, and monotones)
Then praise echo praise to the distance
aoe «Th thie Sky, on the Earth, on the Sea

For everything in

Drug Store Needs

HENRY BIRKS & SONS

LIMITED
Diamond Merchants

ARTHUR & CONN

LIMITED
—Electrical Contractors—

ALPHA BETA 3f" nin alphaber,
but won’t you learn the music from a Music
It starts like this:

HALIFAX

‘BIRKS DIAMONDS are more

Repairs Promptly Executed

190 ARGYLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S.
: Phone Sackville 512

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons

Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums

Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

  

THIS WEEK-END
D. W. GRIFFITH'S

“SALLY OF THE
SAWDUST”

With Carol Dempster,
W. C. Fields

“The Bar-C Mystery”

First 3 days next week

Blue
Overcoats

Fashion decrees that this season to be stylishly dressed
you must wear a BLUE
OVERCOAT. Nowhere will
you see a better range than

We also carry a nice line of Pictures
Harrison Fister’s, Maxfield’s,
Farr'sh’s, etc.

MON.-TUES.-WED.

“Into Her Kingdom”

We Invite You to Join Our
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

_ For Dal’s theoretical,
——_--—s Quite hypothetical,
__— Undergrads O. T. C.

_ Let us stop for a moment to wonder
-____ In our chase for a fleeting degree,
Without more digressing

___ Let us join in confessing
We are proud of our O. T. C.

CORINNEE GRIFFITH

 

THURS.-FRI.-SAT.

“No Man’s Gold”

 

 

CASINO

A : 393 Barrin_ton St. HALIFAX : és ° TOM MIX

_ (Faculty quartette, accompanied by Jean, = a Stee 7 ee eeny The Blonde Saint”

Be Give ochecro Chinchillas and Whitneys in With Lewis St q

_ For no matter where we wander, be it the new D.B. 1926 models, Doris eye a yy WAW \NCE 9
a pe e ae or yonder, = deep storm collars, belted ster tk 3 > 4 » 5

From Afghanistan to sunny Jenn- : back, ff g HREE REEL ;

: : Gauvin & Gentzel WaT ee ae oa eee HARRY LANGDON COMEDY s £ WELL 2
~ Let us sometimes stop and ponder, ined Overcoats of distinction. ei Ss SEE WEN SEF | = ©
. fs as our hearts keep growing fonder You will be proud to wear one. OVERTURE S Sage = % ie Y
____ Of Dalhousie and its glorious O. T. C. 2p hotoqrap hers °C & vy e

| (Full chorus, accompanied by fist-fights
~~ and stamping.)
a iddy wouldn’t buy us a bow-wow,
ae d sent us here to try for a degree,
it we'd-all be quite content
consider time well spent
If Dal. really bad an O. T. C.

Bic CURTAIN—and about time.

"

20 °28 *38
501 Barrington St.

Halifax, N S.
Phone H. 1395

Claytons
JACOB ST.
(A Maritime Industry)

Climo
Photographer

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

    

—W, G. A, 29,
ae, s
a He veh Be =) 7 _ oe a 7
bey iss es ee. hee ;
No ae ee hat et eee Pine ta Ra hate atts oe i : a rte en tl S
    
 

  
  

aut,

A
ne
4 Were

_ Seniors Trim

_ St. George's
ee soc G. KM.)

aE a rather one-sided game, played in
~# the “Y” gym on Saturday night the
al basketeers led the St. George's
regation over the entire course,
ring at the final gong on the long
of a 86—21 tally.
he final outcome was assured early
in the game when, in the first minute of
play, Ab. Smith found the basket from
centre floor and was soon followed
_. Langstroth who deposited
___ shots and a neat counter from the side.

  
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
   
        
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
   

  

-——* . Brown and Cox who up to this time had
not succeeded in denting the twine
registered several pretty close in shots.
_-—s- The’score now stood eighteen to nil in
favour of the collegians.
--——s The saints tightened up for a while,
scoring two long shots. Cox and Langs- troth were relieved by MacLennan and
MacLeod, each of whom scored, the
latter after several unsuccessful attempts
under the basket ere in a pretty
one from past center floor. With one
‘minute to go the Saints scored from a
throw in near their basket ending the
initial period 30—6. en Oh
ree During the first ten minutes of the
second period, play was about even,
ie? the Dalhousie representation as in their
first game against the ‘‘Y”’ seemed
bewildered and were inclined to rest on
their laurels of the opening session but
«regained consciousness towards the middle
8 Of the period and played. brilliant ball,
ie Cox and Brown featuring in rebound
_. shots. The game ended 56—21.
To pick a star in Saturday's game would
_ be -impossible. The forwards worked
eek ts * exceptionally well; Cox ngtting 18 points
> >.-- was’ high scorer: !
fe Brickie Stevenson handled the game in
his usual satisfactory impartial manner.

 

«

ae Dal Forwards Star
2: 2 ee- Against. Y

 

a=
+

was the game between the Dal girls and
the Y Aces, at the Y. M. C. A. last
Wed. The latter had the upper hand
_ in the first period; but Ivy was net on
t” eo worked well

  

ot’; the Dal
Pep. chances to
tres failed to get the

ees

  

.

=
} 0} ked well together and

ed their passes to the forwards with
creditable accuracy. The good work of
_- the guards is evidenced by the Martells’
_ failure to score. The stars were un-__ doubtedly the Dal forwards. Their pass
ing, jumping, checking and shooting

_were exceptionally good and the last ten
eS “minutes were crowded with _ thrills.
-----——-s- Miss Freeman’s passing and Miss Ather“f ton’s shooting during those ten minutes
were noteworthy.

First period—Dal 9, Aces 12.

Second period—Dal 22, Aces 16.

  
 

 

 

At The Casino

“Sally of the Sawdust”, ten reels of
sawdust ring merriment from that master
craftsman, D. W. Griffith, is the feature
attraction at the Casino theatre the last
three days of this week. Sally and Pop,

ea played respectively by Carol Dempster
a > at W. C. Fields are the central characters in this film of which the New
B ae) York World says: ‘‘Among the finest of
he all motion pictures. As lovely a_ story

as the films have told.”
Next week the Casino will show ‘‘The
Blonde Saint.”

 

 

|| BUTTONS ON
|) RENTS MENDED
|| HOLES DARNED
: That's ‘the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA
A new pressing Service:

Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pres
eS sed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
Be for $2.00.
ex

es UNGAR’S

- Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

  
   
 

Sack. 428 Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING
_ VALETERIA

|| CLEANING

> Fast, thrilling and intensely interesting |’

}so excited about it ourselyes that I}
| thought perhaps it might interest readers
of the Gazette. Besides,

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

33

 

P i - ——
—s —

OINGS AT THE DAL GYM

(By G. K. M.)

wD

     

AW, Meds, Theologues and Arts B, were the conquering heroes
Li: the interfaculty contests stagedin the Studley Gym on Saturday
Art Douglas star forward of the Medical quintette was
high scorer for the afternoon with a total of thirteen points. For an
afternoon’s amusement come to the Gym on any Saturday. The
customary three act comedy of pre-Xmas days has been dropped and
a four act farce substituted. The change being necessitated by the
addition of two extra teams in the league.

afternoon.

 

DENTS LOSE TO LAW COMMERCE DROP GAME

In the preliminary bout on the after-| The Pine Hill Theologues probably
noon’s card the embryonic Dents lost the ; provided the surprise of the day when they
decision to their political brethren the} took the Commercialites into camp with
Lawyers. The score at the end of thea 15—13 score after two five minute
initial stanza was 5—2 but the lawyers | periods of overtime play. The preachers |
came back strong in the second half and | after a shut-out in the first half (7—0) |
won 15—3. Skit Oldfield, before being | staged a revival resulting in a dead-lock |
put off the floor by Umpire Clark for|at the whistle. MacLean and Frame,
undignified tactics, netted 75% of the starred for Pine Hill, while Olive was |
Dentals’ total score. Richardson and | outstanding for the financiers.
Doyle starred for the fortunates. Line up—

Line up— Theologues—Barbour, Hockin, Frame,
_ Dents—Sullivan, Dobson, Profitt, MacLean, Tupper.
Macintosh, Godsoe, Tupper. Commerce— MacDonald, Harris,

Lawyers—Richardson, Mitchell, Gav-| Grant, Matheson, Slayter, Olive, Smith.
sie, Doyle, Wickwire, Outhit.

Oldfield,

 

ENGINEERS LOSE OUT

 

- MEDS DEFEAT ARTS A Manager Brown’s Cubs forsook their
winning ways in the final game of the
day's play arid lost to the Arts B. five i
a closely contested game 16—14. Bil
Clark scored on several long distance
shots, netting ten points for the winners
Doull and MacKeagan tied for honors,

each getting three baskets for the Eng
The Medical boys, assisted by fate
which guided several of Jennings’ wild
whirls through the steel ring, doubled the
score on the Artsmen. Douglas showed
up well in the final stages of the game.
Blenkinsop was the best bet in the Arts

line up. ineers.
Line up— Lineup—
Meds— MacLean, Ross, Jennings, Dou-| Arts A—W. Clark, MacRae, Cox,
glas, Hewatt, Jones, Miller. Halen, Hebb, Parker, Wilson, MacLean,
Arts A—Plenkinsop, Clark, Cotter, | Powell.
MacLeod, Doyle. Engineers—Doull, Stewart, Lw

Currie, Morton, Beaton, MacKeaga

 

eS) ees
The RossPrint Ltd. | |

95 ARGYLE STREET
Printers - Publishers

Graduate Writes

—_—_——_--—_—
‘We print the following excerpt fromi a
letter of Jessie MacIntyre, whose address is, Bedford Branch, Brooklyn Public
Library, Brooklyn, N.Y.,

Not so very long ago a few old Dalhousians accidentally met in New York
at a Canadian Club dance and we were

Bookbinders

We specialize in SOCIETY WORK

TICKETS, PROGRAMS
and all kinds of
COMMERCIAL WORK

Orders delivered same day rece'ved.

Phone S. 1958

you must
remember you asked us to write just
where we were and if alone or with other
Dalhousians. I went to that dance with
a party of Canadians, just six of us,
and there met Dal. Elsie Fraser, who
was a special a couple of years ago was
with our group, or I should say | was
with hers. While standing in the lobby
two well known people stopped, stared,
gasped, then we all talked at once.
They were Charlotta Johnson '26 and
Dave Colquhoun '23. Well we were
just a wee bit excited, but to add toit
a little later on, 3 more well known people
came in. They were Mary Maclntyre,
Law ’26, Clara Murray '24, and ‘‘Nutty”’
Wilson of hockey fame. We got together and considered the advisability of
a Dal yell, but decided against it because
it would not be quite in keeping with the
tone of the dance. On another occasion
I met Jean Ross '18 who is on the staff
of the B. P. L. and we talked over Dal
days. Elsie is likewise on the staff,
where I hope-to be next year.

 

YELLOW. CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

 

WALSH'S
Preiss STORE

YOUR DRUGGISTS

SPRING GARDEN RD.
COR. QUEEN ST.

MACLEOD, BALCOM,
—DRUGGISTS— Ltd.
5 STORES

34 MorrisSt. 174 Spr. Garden Rd.
103 Young St. 139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

HALIFAX, N.S.

 

 

 

   
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
   

 

The Greatest Asset of a business is
give customers what they want—
when they want tt.

Job and Society Printing

always delivered when
promised at the

Don’t Envy a Good

Appearance!
Come to Shield’s Barber Shop
and enjoy the benefit of expert
service. Always five of the most
proficient barbers procurable on
hand. Our Hair Cutting is sure
to satisfy. Ladies’ Hair Cutting in
all styles; also Curling, Shampooing

N p : ‘4 + A and Massaging. One trial will
Ova rint m1 e convince.
| SAM. A. SHIELDS
227-229 Hollis Street Prop.
One Block North of Post Office Phone S 4786 41 Sackville St.

  
  

 

   
  
  

   
   
   

  

George F. Power
Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
of every Description.

Going down to

MADERS

   
  
  
 
 
  

     
  

  
  
 

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX 23

a

  
 

    

 

Dal Cubs Hold [>

First Place

The Dalhousie Cubs won their third
game in as many starts when they
defeated
on Friday night in a closely contested
match played in the Y. M. C. A. before
a fairly large house with a 31—25 score.
The Dalhousie team were forced to play
the last few minutes of the game with
only four men as two of the players were
yanked’ for. personal fouls. Ross at
center was the shining light in the Dalhousie array.
scored :—

Dzlhousie—Clark 8; Harrison 8; Ross

11; Sperry; Jones 3; Smith.

He drew a circle and left me out,
Heretic, rebel, a thing to flout,
But love and I had the wit to win
We drew a circle and took him in.

_—— eee Sse

HE PRINTING DEPARTMENT of the
Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, famous for

| the quality of its press
work, on Booklets, Catakinds of

is

logues, and all
Job Printing.

Telephone Sackville 1017

  
  
    

Clothes Seen at the Colleges
Suits, Overcoats
and Furnishings

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

iW. F. Page

| Cor. George and Barrington Sts.

—— i...

HALIFAX

WINNERS from the

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HAL'FAX, N. S,;

 

 

 

9
Bob Johnson’s
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle

MAJESTIC THEATRE
BUILDING
AND

Cor. GEORGE & BARRINGTON
| STREETS

 

 

Don’t Neglect Your Appearance

 

 

 

Well Dressed
With
Economy

CUSTOM MADE garments
for every occasion that give
the correct finish to your
appearance.

FINE CLOTHES, correct
cut, best of workmanship,
prices that make themselves
economical. |

    
     
     
    

 

      
 

“True Blue’ Indigo
Serges and others— $35.00

     
  

   

OVERCOATS with
appearance, warmth
and service—Mel
tons, Chinchillos etc.

 
 
   

$35.00

Scotia Tailors Ltd.

479 Barrington St.

(Opp. St. Paul’s Cb.)

    
       
 

the Wanderers Intermediates

The players and points

 

 

 

 

 

January 27th, 1927

If you are
buying

HOCKEY
SUPPLIES

for a team or
for yourself—

PHINNEY’S
LTD.

High Class Barber

Up-to-date shop with four
cha’rs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Sprins Gar en Roai

r i»
i,

“= ="
AMS

R. C. WILCOX, Proprietor

385 Barrington St.
HALIFAX - CANADA

Collars!

Our care in smoothing
all the edges of a collar
not only makes it wear
longer but prolongs the
life of the shirt worn
with it. Remember your
laundry dollar buys more
conscientious care at this
laundry.

Halifax Steam Laundry
81-84 WEST STREET

 

Living
In Halifax

While living in Halifax
we want you to feel that
The Green Lantern was
designed for your pleasure and comfort.

Lunches, Ices, Drinks

The Green Lantern

Compare this for value:

72 Sheets of Paper
72 Envelopes

each embossed with
Dalhousie crest.
Packed in neat box.

$1.85
FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

Nearest Stationer to your College

 
