   

OF ANY COLLEGE
PAPER IN THE
- MARITIMES

 


Concrete C

BY THE

——$——— *

yy large number of students assembled
pe os chemistry theatre last Monday

afternoon to_ hear Sir Herbert Ames
. ‘deliver: the first of a series of three

  
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  

Rane? lectures dealing with different phases

 

{ tk hich is being done by the
ea iy ations: The subject of

“ ei ae Sandee address was ‘The Promise of
* cae ie re Herbert began by declaring that
: ale, ‘no man or woman. is truly educated
ime whose horizon is limited by his or her
Fa : native town, province, or even by the
bers Dominion as a_ whole. Between the
en years 1919—26 he has had the opporvate. tunity, while acting as treasurer - the

Yo League, of meeting ambassadors from

many nations, and the fact was very
forcibly brought home to him that
- countries no longer exist as independent
units and that international relations
are continually becoming more !n
 

 
 
 
  
  
   
  

P tricate. We have reached an era in
Sip tae a better understanding of interNase | national problems is indispensable and
it is with a view to furthering this under
Pe tanding that Sir Herbert is now carryme fs fede oO garine of lectures which, when
| - completed, will have embraced nearly

every college and university between the

Atlantic and Pacific coasts.

3? , ae aed gathered to arrange terms

pew aes ‘peace were dazed by the losses and
 “"Yavages of the mammoth struggle

- just ended and with one accord they

     
  
  
 

4, 4

eeepetition of war. ‘The object
‘of the peacemakers was to outlaw

    

     
  

= 7 ‘ ve > x a. * .
aha aw fost oe, Lees : 5 ut tion
war and the first move in this direc
was the imp f penalties on those

    

osition oO tie
Bites: o Nisutties directly responsible for the
tO eel G deprivations of territory
Previous

war. Great depri |
ge renui from their efforts. eva
to the war Europe was: compo o

. distinct countries and now

Pe iy ae egn ie
Game ye De loca: ‘no less than thirty self— governi 1 Servia and Roumtng - governing states: : re
ania gained tracts of territory and the
~ areas of Austria and Hungary were
correspondingly reduced. Poland rebs - ceived a large bite from Germany.
Ri Forfeiture of ships, coal, and colonies
ie SN was demanded and heavy reparations
Maes in the form of ioe a figured in the
Ae ishments meted out. x
x | eae "the Allies had also a positive

i i of peace —that of creating an

ccaaetion anes it was hoped, would

re have universal jurisdiction in settling

"ee disputes and determining the boundaries

se of territories. This association or soc
iety was created and is now the League

of Nations”. It is really only an ex
tention of the system whereby com
munities were associated for social and

political advantages. The concrete con
ception of the League was born in the

mind of President Wilson and con
solidated by him into fourteen clauses,

just previous to the signing of the
Armistice.

The first task of the peace conference

. was to appoint a committee to work out

teow, a detailed plan of action which should

ea govern the functioning of the League.

re "Phe committee was composed of nine
i teen members; two from each of the five

leading powers and one from each of

nine other countries. President Wilson

was the chairman of this committee and

he was assisted by such able men as

General Smuts of South Africa and the

fe President of the French senate. Some

-—s Jeaders were inclined to regard this

convocation as being idealistic but

a they were forgetting that these great

survivors of an_ epic struggle were

very practical idealists, and still more

important that they had learned. to

work together and to compromise.

Their opinion was an amalgamated and

not an individual one, because the

representatives from each of thirty
two nations had to be satisfied with

each and every article before it became

an established article of the covenant!

“Speed” was the motto of the com
ss mittee and in less than eight weeks

_--—s they'-~spresented their report to the

: Lea and it was accepted very much

in the form of the covenant as it now

stands.. Had the League attempted

- to settle the endless list of disputes

2 without first establishing a covenant as

a working basis, it would in all prob
ability still be encompassed by a maze

of chaotic problems with no solutions

: in sight. covenant is the first

chapter in the treaty of Versailles and

wilic

ra

i

he
i

the foundation for hundreds of clauses
hich follow. Oneofthe tasks which
the League took upon itself was the
promoting of international co-operation
toes the forming of the first covenant
there was a residue of unsettled questzn% (Continued on page 3)

7
ae
.
ee
7

,

Str Herbert
Joodrow Wilson’s

 

. determined to take step to pre .

|

)

| a

BEE

an
'

  
       
 
    
  
  

 

—

  

Onception of

League of Nations

_ INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION DESIRED

MASSES

 

 

 < ALBERT J, WALSH, LL.B

_ A Law student in April, a graduate in
May,-@ member of the Bar of Nova
Scotia in June, a member of the Bar of
Newfoundland in July, and a memberelect of the Parliament of Newfoundland
in October is the unique record of
Albert J. Walsh.

Mr. Walsh was ee in the village of
Holyrood, Newfoundland. He received his early education at St. Bonaventure’s, St. John’s, N. F., and then
was appointed Principal of the Harbour
Grace Academy. Having served there
faithfully for a number of years, he
decided to study law. He led practically every class he took at Arts, came
to the Law School and led his class
each year there, winning the Carswell
po each year and was awarded the

niversity Medal in Law.

In Moot Court he was. brilliant,
winning the Smith Shield which is
competed for annually. In Mock Parliament he was a firm, convincing
debater and those who heard him prophesied a brilliant career.

Immediately after he was admitted
to the Bar of Nova Scotia, he went to
Newfoundland and commenced the
practice of his profession, and, when,
on October 19th., the Liberal Party
nominated two men to contest the home
constituency of this young barrister,
Albert Walsh was one of the men chosen.
With him was Phil. Lewis, Law ’20.
Opposed was a Cabinet Minister with
twenty-five years experience as a
parliamentarian. Albert Walsh was the
people’s choice.

Dalhousie offers hearty congratulations to Albert Walsh, and wishes him
every success in his career.

 

“Carrie Comes

to College”

GRAHAM ALLEN DIRECTOR

Nothing could better indicate the
| progressive spirit of the Glee Club than
to mention that a rehearsal for the
musical comedy ‘Carrie Comes to
College"’ was given on the very night
following the first Glee Club show,
“Premiere’’.

In the leading role, Patten, of Pine
Hill, will probably play the part of
“spencer”. Another important  character will be Fred Jennings who has
already made a name for himself in
musical circles. The good-natured sketch of the fat and jolly ‘‘Porky” will
undoubtedly be portrayed by ‘‘Fat”’
MacKenzie who has been changed to
this role from that of the dignified father
due to his pleasant poundage.

It would hardly be fair to spoil a
good surprise by writing up the leading
lady, Miss Minnie Black who will be
seen for the first time in this type of
performance. Shirreff Hall loans another feminine leading role in the
form of Electa MacLennan and a con
tingent of some twenty pretty supporters.

a

v

Mt

—Official Student Publication at Dalho

a —

Se ~

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 26th,

ee

   

Tha
en

    

UT)

| ENN

i

 
 

 

cAmes on Peace and League o

eS

f Nations

DIAMOND
JBUILEE OF
THE OLDEST

COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

 

  

 

MANAGER
RESPONSIBLE
FOR GEAR

COUNCIL MAKES GRANTS
SPECIAL — FLASH

Minutes read, approved. The Pres.
announced that the bleachers were
now paid for, the payment having been
going on for the past seven years,
from 50% of net the proceeds derived
from league games on field and in the
Gym. A committee consisting of MacLeod, Bennett and MacCunn was
appointed to investigate the expired
agreement re same and advisability
of renewal.

In regard to turning in of athletic
gear it was moved ‘‘That in view of
unsatisfactory existing conditions re
the returning of athletic gear to the
University that the managers be made
personally responsible and liable for
any loss of garments entailed’’, checking
and that they (managers) employ the
card index system for players’ gear.”

Secretary authorized to acquaint
the different managers with this
new ruling and also to ask the
Editor of the Gazette to give it
prominence in an effort to heip
him in enforcing it.

The dance report adopted—$135.83
expense.

Budgets considered and the following
grants given:—Football $700 plus extra
in event of a trip. Basketball $200.

Delta Gamma $175.

Rifle Club $30.

Sodales $200 plus advance of $150
which will be covered by guarantee for
Nfld. debate.

Gazette $900. Glee Club $500 plus
additional consideration of returns from
sources approved by Council.

Interfaculty $80 plus advance of $10

Badmington $15. ve er.

D. G. A. C. $225 plus cost of fourteen
middies.

Boxing Club nominal provisional
grant. providing they receive recognition by the D. A. A. C.

Wrestling: grant deferred.

Track grant deferred pending receipt of explicit budget.

Council sanction as granted to the
D. G. A. C. to hold a Ladies Field meet
to be held next summer and to be
sponsored by one of the local newspapers.

Messrs MacCunn and Laurence appointed to look after Interfaculty basketball trophies and for Arts Inter-class
debating, a fund for the same being
started by Hon. R. B. Bennett.

Moved that a pay telephone be installed in the Forrest Building for the
use of Students and Societies and that
present council phone be discontinued.

Adjournment 11.55 p. m.

    

ey

5|"“TATTLER”

CRITIZES

“GOLD”

REPORTER TOO FLATTER
ING
TRUTH AIM

“What is truth—’ quoth jesting Pilot

and would not wait for an answer;
like Pilot, many Dalhousians wonder
Since the reading of the
Glee Club Review as printed in last

what truth is.

week’s Gazette the campus folk have
tried to analyze the reporter's idea
of truth, the whole truth and nothing
but the truth. If the eloquence of
this particular writer is to be taken
without question then “‘Gold’”’ was a
success; but was it? Decidedly not!
In the first instance the presentation
of one act taken from such a play as
“Gold’’ smacks of puerile reasoning.
How many were able to comprehend the
speeches of the actors if they had no
idea what preceeded the fourth act?
Only those who had been fortunate
enough to read the play could follow
the actors and read into their gestures
any sense whatever. Our Gazette has
as its ideal the expression of truth and
truthful accounts concerning student
activities. How then can reporters print
such fiction when the facts are so obviously opposite in character! The
review praises the acting of ‘‘Sue’’ and
“Nat’’. Was the writer so_ blind,

deaf and dumb that he was unaware of

the general opinion expressed concerning these characters! If he were suffering from such afflictions it is time he

/was made aware of some general facts.

For one thing Sue was ineffectual and
tried to make a character representation
ay..forced. gestures. There _was_ too

too little real emotion. If anyone
present had seen last year’s ‘‘Dumbell”’
show they were forcibly reminded of the
melodramatic skit presented by this
company. ‘The same ludicrous actions,
the same lack of reality was obviously
present. ‘‘Nat’’, with his clenched
hands—oh what a crowning touch!—
and his pale face, aroused more laughter

than sympathy. As a last artistic
criticism Captain Isaiah's ‘‘falling”
white hair spoiled many dramatic

situations and created much comment
as to the advisability of using wigs in
our Glee Club performances.

If plays are to be part of the program let them be plays not exhibitions.
No doubt these actors have distinguished
themselves in other stage successes,
but in this instance they were decidedly
out of place and harmony with Eugene
O'Neill’s ‘Gold’.

 

 

 

TIGERS HOLD REDS TO
SCORELESS FIRST HALF

 

WANDERERS WIN 6-0

After holding the Wanderers scoreless} Dr. Murray Logan making the first

through a rugged first period
Dalhousie Tigers wilted badly in the
second session, long enough for the
Reds to put over two scores, winning
the game by a six to nothing count and
marking up their second straight triumph of the year over the collegians.
Thus is told briefly the story of the
Wanderers’ triumph over the Tigers at
Studley last Saturday.

Entirely missing was the spirit which
had characterized the playing of the
collegians in their great triumph over
the Acadians last week. In fact the
Wanderers took the play right away
from our boys in the opening period,
placing the Tigers on the defensive
and causing a flurry of apprehension
among the Dalhousie contingent in the
stands.

Well might the college supporters
be worried, with the Wanderers pressing
time and time again, and Dalhousie
clearing by narrow margins. Finally
the Reds did break through, not once
buttwice.

TIGER MACHINE LISTLESS

The fighting Tiger machine had met
its match. The old Dalhousie spirit
was there, all right, but the offensive
threat used so effectively against the
Acadians and the United Services was
conspicuous by its absence.

At the present time Dalhousie is
leading the City Leaguers, by the
scant margin of a single point, garnered
by a double victory and a tie game.
All is not lost but a victory over the
Wanderers Saturday would have gone a
long way towards retaining the city
title the “boys” captured last season.

A former Dalhousian played a big
part in the downfall of the Tigers,

the} and winning try for the Reds shortly

after the start of the second period.

Half way through the opening period,
after the Gold and Black squad had
successfully withstood a battering near
their own line, they started an offensive
that was crushed right on the Wanderers line, when Jones, hero of the Acadia
c’ash, wa; forced to touch.

Again Jones wandered far into Wanderers’ territory but was thrown when
near the goal line.

REDS SCORE

Half way through the period Thompson scooped up the oval near the Dalhousie line and thrust it into the waiting
hands of Logan, who plunged over for
the first try. Edwards made a fine
try to convert but missed the goal.

McDougall sent the score to six to
nothing shortly after. plunging around
the “blind” side of the scrum for a nice
score. McDougall was tackled as he
went over the line, but touched the ball.
Again Edwards failed to convert.

The collegians showed much more
spirit after the second score and for a
while threatened the Wanderers line,
but the rally came too late. Time was
passing rapidly and the Wanderers
fought stubbornly to protect their
margin. They succeeded.

While Dal lost out it does not mean
that anyone on the team was rotten.
As a matter of fact practically everyone
of the fifteen Tigers showed flashes of
real form. Davison uncorked some
fine runs during the game, Archie
MacDonald was effective per usual,
the two Sutherlands showed up well
while Doug Scott and “Fat” Irving
roe exceptionally hard on the front
ine.

 

much exaggeration in her speeches and

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

FRESHIE-SOPH

 

 

 


 

CHARLES MacDONAL Leaving Library

 

rary, was begun. ‘‘This marks,”’

pletion of one of the most critical
periods in its history, a period in which
its destiny is for all determined and
secured.”

And how did this come about? Were
the buildings like Topsy and ‘“‘just
growed’? By no means. Their birth
was perhaps heralded in 1902 when the
forward _movement._.was. initiated at
Dalhousie, and the Faculty of Engineering was begun. During the enthusiastic campaign which was launched
to raise funds for this branch of technical education, a certain Dalhousian,
filled with zeal for his Alma Mater
consulted with Dr. MacMechan, whose
obsession had always been a University
Library and who had done much
preliminary work endeavouring to arouse
interest in this so important part of a
College. Thus the idea was conceived of building a library in honor
of the most popular professor Dalhousie ever had—the late Charles A.
MacDonald, Professor of Mathematics.

Having fixed this as the objective,
this zealous Dalhousian, Theodore Ross,
ably seconded by H. D. Drunt, ‘Bishop
Murray, and Johnstone MacKay set
themselves the task of collecting the
money, and the result was twenty-five
thousand dollars. A like sum was
added by the Board of Governors and
there arose the MacDonald Memorial
Library. And through the door of this
“comely reality in stone and mortar”
Dalhousie students hourly go and come
with hardly ever a thought for the day
when this building was but a dream in
the minds of those, who by toil and
discouragement overcome, hewed reality out of the tree of good intentions.

(Continued on page 3)

 

Law Dance at

_ Lord Nelson

A year ago they said it couldn't
be done. But, it WAS done and the
Law Society proved that it was well done
when last Monday night, they held
their annual dance in the new Lord
Nelson Hotel.

The ball-room with its beantiful,
inlaid floor coupled with the music of a
six piece orchestra under the direction
of Joe Mills was enough to make an
octogenerian want to dance not to speak
of the several hundreds of young people
who thronged the hotel. To have
three or four lounges each beautifully
and tastefully decorated in which to
spend the intermissions was a novelty
to a Dalhousie crowd and moreover
a novelty that was freely availed of and
fully appreciated.

During the ninth and tenth dances
supper was served in the main diningroom. All kinds of dainty cakes and
sandwiches, coffee and ice cream laid
out in tempting array before the guests
disappeared in short order.

The chaperons of the evening who
received the guests as they entered the
ball-room were Dean Read, Dean of the
‘Law School, and Mrs. Read, Col. and
Mrs. W. E. Thompson, Prof. and
Mrs. H. E. Read and Prof. and Mrs.
M. M. MclIntyre. The affair was
an unqualified success on which the
committee, Miss M. Blandford, and
Messrs. Redmond (chairman), Coffin,
McLeod, J. H. McDonald, McNaught,
and McCunn are to be heartily congratulated.

   
 
 
 
 
   

Thirteen years ago, on the 28th of
September the first class work in the
Science building and MacDonald Libsays
a 1915 Gazette, “‘not only the realization
of- an idea long cherished by friends
of the University, but also the com
  

CO-EDS HARMFULL |
TO FRESHMEN

Munro Room Crowded By Debating Fans

 

FORENSIC FEUD

>,
“¢

Charles MacDonald |

 

That the influence of college girls on
Freshmen is harmful and detrimental’:
was the decision of Sodales first debate’
for the year. The decision was reached
after a very closely contested argument
in the Munro Room,, and-did. not. seem
to depress in the least the large gathering
of college girls who heart it. . "

Maurice MacKinnon Sodales news
president was in the chair.» At‘’8.10
he called the meeting to order and.:
asked the secretary to read the minutes ©
of the last meeting. After they had
been adopted Mr. MacKinnon’ gave al’
brief but pertinent address in which he
outlined the program for the year.
Then he called upon the first speaker
for the affirmative to open the debate.

_ Mr. Gordon Harris commenced the!
indictment of collegiate feminity. Its j
influence upon unbalanced freshmen
was, he declared, deplorable. Fresh- °
men come to college to find themselves
in wider spheres and fuller fréedom.
They take advantage of this freedom
by going out with college girls. Follaw
sad results. Studies are neglected,
money is dissipated, time is thrown .
away and with Christmas exams comes
calamity. Enlarging upon the lamentable consequence Mr. Harris concluded,
a short but well delivered speech, . —

Mr. Morton like a doughty, Galahad *
rose ,to the defense of the ‘eb-eds; ind!
Incidentally of the Freshmen.) Phe
influence of the ladies—and such, cHapfnag
ing ladies as grace Dalhousie—was. not
detrimental, it was uplifting and’ re-.
fining. The Freshmen ‘were thouldéd’and benefited thereby. Present day’:
sophomores did not seem to have suffer-:
ed, and sophomores of next year will not
suffer. Though the influence of the
ladies, freshmen will develope into |
real gentlemen. And college girls he .
declared are not as bad as they are
painted. Who could believe so after
seeing Dalhousie’s Fair. ‘‘Is any Freshette at Dal a Gold-Digger?”’ he challenged. But, maybe on the interests of
veracity, he did not answer his own
question. Mr. Morton was calm and
easy in delivery, but did not lack persuaviness.

The ladies to the rescue. Miss
Helen Williams, Vice President of
Sodales now comes as second speaker
for the affirmative. Despite the arguments of the negative she said, the
fact remains that a great many Shirreff
Hall girls are being taken out by
Freshmen and they stay until ‘‘comparatively’ late hours. Such a_ beginning will have upon_childish and
innocent Freshmen an effect that is
far from salutary. Better that they
should be protected from influences so
malign. Miss Williams enlivened her
argument with the spice of appropriate
humor and, although perhaps at times
a little difficult to hear, was otherwise
a pleasing speaker.

To conclude for the negative Miss
Margaret White came to the defense of
her sex. Man without woman, she
said is in a sad condition of poverty.
College girls help college men—even

Freshmen. If Freshmen are unsophicated, ‘‘unsophistication is a charm
possessed by few,’ and ifSophs are this
cream God help the skim milk.

Miss White spoke in a fluent and very
pleasant manner. Hers was probably
the most popular speech of the evening.

Short rebuttals were given by both
leaders and then the judges for the
evening, J. J. Fay and E. M. Howse,
retired to consider their verdict.

On their absence the floor was thrown
open for discussion. Among the speakers were Miss Mary Currie and Messrs
Patello, Don Grant, O'Handley, Alex
MacKinnon and Greene. Some of
these were heard for the first time in
Sodales. Sodales hopes to hear them
again.

The decision of the judges now announced was that by a narrow margin
the affirmative had won the debate.

nn pe
PROF. GOWANLOCH TO SPEAK

On Wednesday, Oct. 5th, the Biology
Club will meet in the Dental Theatre.
Professor Gowanloch will be the speaker
and his subject will be ‘‘The’ Unicorn
and the Childhood of Biology.”’

Such a discussion about the mythical
animals of past dark ages is of absorbing
interest to all followers of Biology, and
particularly so since it is the handiwork
of such a master craftsman as Prof.
Gowanloch.

 
 
    

1

|

j
/

is | BN Assistant Business ion

«The one Gazette
Z Ele Py pei (Founded 1869)

+
csieinienaal

BEN ‘GUSS y

&

_ Sport Editor.
Beas ; PAUL DOYLE
‘ews Edito ,

ERNEST M. HOWSE. ;

 

R. ae wet ag a

Moria oo tent eae GEORGE WHITELE ea af
Pay Bee J. M. BOVYER ~

os | Business Re aso

teres. S. W. ARCHIBALD.

age ae? 5 Rosebank Ave. ‘Phone L 2291

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year

 

We Must Not Forget

“Yesterday students in the Little College; tomorrow facing
hardship, privation, heart-shaking fears, wounds, mutilation,
suffering, death. Dalhousians fought by land and sea and aE at
The long, sad, glorious tale has never been written. It is high
time that the Little College does public goth to those who brought
honour to it.” §

These are the words of Dr. Archibald MacMechan in ‘The
Little College and the War’ published in the Gazette last week.
Dr. MacMechan knows whereof he speaks. Now comes the announcement that the Senate has decided to inaugurate an annual
_memorial service, to honour the memory of those Dalhousians who
in the Spring of Life faced death that we might live in freedom.

To grasp the full significance of those apparently easy words:
“that we might live in freedom’’, we need only for a moment imagine: “Supposing the scales had balanced the other way; supposing
victory had swung on the side of the foe’ ’ ves they have died
that we may live in freedom.

They have given “The Little College’ a greatness that is unique. And we proudly refer to the note worthy services Dalhousians have rendered the country. And we share in the glory that
they have brought to Alma Mater. And we share in the traditions
of the manly virtues that are associated with Dalhousie because of
their courage. Their glory is our glory.

Surely if we are willing to accept the prestige they have brought
us, we will not back down when we are asked to acknowledge
their sacrifice!

_ On Nov. 111928--Sunday morning at 10.30--those of Dalhousie’s
sons who sacrificed their lives will be remembered in a solemn
service, at the gymnasium.

At the University of Saskatchewan they have already instituted such a program. Last year they held a very notable service,
and it is really surprising that the Senate of Dalhousie has not
long since taken action in the matter.

To those who are of pacific tendencies—a word: (And a word
to the wise is sufficient.) Participation in this service does not
imply a glorification of war. There is a tendency,to confuse two
things: The glorification of slaughter as a virtue’ and the solemn
tribute to those who have been inspired to lay down‘ their lives for
the ideal of freedom. One completely excludes, the other. !

Of course there is no duty on anyone to attend, on Sunday,
Nov. 11. But every student at Dalhousie, every graduate at present in Halifax should deem it a privilege to hasten to do honour
to those immortals whose names will forever be linked with Alma
Mater; whose names will for all time grace the honour rolls of
Dalhousie: whose names unto Eternity will stand sentinel to the
ideals of honour and freedom dear to the Little College.

“We Can’t Be Certain”

Elsewhere in the columns of the Gazette there appears a letter
scoring the Gazette for an Editorial entitled ‘‘The Eternal Quest.”
In the first place the Gazette did not ever publish an Editorial
with that caption. The Gazette however did publish an editorial
entitled ‘““Their Eternal Quest.” Their refers to particular persons
or to a particular group of persons; “‘the’’ has a wider application
and would extend to a general world-wide quest. The editor does
not entertain so grand a presumption.

It is as clear as a pikestaff that had the author of the letter
spent as much time trying to study the editorial, as he spent on
writing the letter, that particular letter would not have been written.
For the student would have come to the edifying discovery that the

_Editor—far from cynically trying to undermine those principles
for which we all must stand (and the Gazette would fight for those
principles)—was peacefully interpreting «two little bits of poetical
philosophy written and contributed by two average normally
thoughtful Dalhousians. The Editor was trying to see into their
problem; was trying to aid them in arriving at the target of their
quest—namely the truth. Since when are searchers after truth—
cynics? :

Certainly our youthful correspondent has exemplified that
“we can’t be certain of anything’. Even editors cannot be certain
that their writings will be understood.

On Property

It has been brought to the attention of the Editor by several
kind persons that there is a striking similarity between ““A Summer
Escapade’’ which appeared in the Gazette of October 19, and H. C.
Bunner's “A Sisterly Scheme’’, which appeared in the June 1928
issue of The Golden Book Magazine. Unlike our kind friends, the
Gazette does not at all suggest, or even hint at plagiarism or piracy
or anything like that on the part of the author of ‘‘A Summer
Escapade’’ but goes on record as warning all future contributors

against plagiarism as a reprehensible practice to be dealt with according to its desert. Piracy is a grave breach of faith with Alma

{| my friend,

a fat.
; 4 rT 2 = 108"

To the

October, 23, 1928
The Editor,

Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:—Editorial comment, I
think, should be expressive to a certain
extent of the opinions of the supporters
of a paper. That such is the practice
throughout the world is evidenced by

the conspicuous absence’ of socialistic:

articles in a Financial Post or atheistic
contributions in a~~Church Times:

“| It is therefore with a little surprise that
11 read the editorial on “The Eternal
Thought-’

Quest” in your last number.
provoking as this editorialis, its apparent
underlving sceptisism does not, | think,
genuinely represent the views of Dalhousians. The epigrammatic paradox,
“One can be certain only of one thing
and that is ‘We can’t be certain of
anything’ " smacks of the smart cynicism of a Bryon or a Wilde and is
fundamentally untrue. There are great
eternal principles of which all of us are
certain and for which, I hope, we will
always stand. That conclusion of the
editorial shows a dangerous and disastrous lack of philosophy, a negativism
striking at the roots of civilization.
I think it was Morely who said ‘‘Right
and wrong are in the nature of things,
they are not mere phrases, they are
in the nature of things. And if you
trangress the law laid down by this
nature of things, depend upon it you
shall pay the penalty”.

Again the easy fatalism of Omar is
not expressive of a philosophic basis.
If I remember rightly, in specific
passages he deprecates philosophy as
a solution of his problems, as in the
quatrain beginning ‘“‘For Is and IsNot’’ and where he says that after
philosophic enquiry he “Came out by
the same door, where in I went.
Throughout the poem his state of mind
is more indicative of the diffusive
discursiveness of a Bacchic neophyte
than the ordered logic of a disciple of
Socrates. One can admire the beauty

A Studley

      

= en 2 = ci =

Fditor

ef his verses, I hope, without being
seduced by his heterogeneous mixture
of materialism, mysticism, fatalism,
obscurationism, cynicism and hedonism. Tennyson’s answer of faith in
Self-will to the fatalistic dilemma is
more inspiring to youthful philosophers:

Thou wilt not leave us in the dust,

Thou madest man, he knows not why,

He thinks he was not made to die,

And Thou hast made him. Thou art
just.

Thou seemest human and divine,

The highest, holiest manhood, Thou,
Our wills are ours; we know not how,
Our wills are ours, to make them Thine.

Further I would suggest that along
with the contradictory Neitzche and
Schopenhauer one could read with
profit Aristotle Aquinas, A Mempis,
Henry George, and perhaps, Thornton
Wilder.

And as for the oft-repeated banality
that “anticipation is greater than
realization’’, it would be well to call to
mind the moral of Kipling’s ‘“‘Kim’”’ and
to remember those tenderly sublime
lines:

I'd not give room for an Emperor,

I'd hold my road for a King,

To the Triple Crown, I'd not bow down,

But this is a different thing.

I'll not fight with the Powers of Air,

Sentries pass him through.

Drawbridge let fall-He’s the Lord of
us all,

The Dreamer whose dream came true.

In conclusion may I suggest that the
answer to “The Eternal Quest”’ is the
“Peace of Faith, exemplified in its
diversity and its unity by those great
unforgettable characters, Kim's ‘““Lama’
and Valjean's ‘‘Monseigneur Myriel’”’.

Yours truly,

F. J.F.

Mystery

‘By Laurence Coffey

 

 

 

has killed romance,” said
“This age is well described
as a ‘Rectangular abomination in
black and w hite’; the intriguing mystery
is a thing of the past.

“I’m not so sure of that, I replied,”

I am inclined to think that we no longer
find many things mysterious because
we merely glance at them c: asually and
say, ‘Oh, no, doubt there ts a good
enough reason why it should, be so.
As a matter of fact, I have found one
}hich you and hundreds of other Dal
students sce daily, but never notice
ih it anything out of the ordinary.”

The Dalhousie ‘Arts Building’ is
a thoroughly modern, up-to-date, and
designed building. No doubt it has a
place among your ‘Rectangular Abominations.’ But have you ever really
noticed the front’ door, through which a
couple of -hundred students pass in
four or five minutes? It is exactly thirty
inches wide—just the length of your
arm. Of course it is a double door, for
to meagre a slit as that would look
perfectly : ridiculous under a_ portico
whose pillars are wider than the door.
But face the facts: that other door ‘is
merely an ornament. It is so arranged
that it can be opened only with considerable difficulty. There is a catch
at the top which only the tallest can
reach, and a catch at the bottom—
Imagine anyone bending over and releasing the door, with ten or fifteen
students jostling him from behind:
he would be up-ended and walked on
or certain. Besides, one must pull the
catch at the top and bottom  simultaneously. And then the door will
remain flapping in the breeze for hours.
And—well, anyway that door hasn't
been opened a dozen times in as many
terms.”

“Can you offer me any reason why
the architect should have designed this
part of the building in a way so unutilitarian? Was it to keep the heat
from escaping? Why, if that had been
his main object, he wouldn't have put
. door there at all, but would merely
have built in a couple of lengths of
thirty inch culvest pipe—one for incoming and one for outgoing traffic.
Such an arrangement would have been
much more saving of heat and would
have reduced congestion.’

So you did not notice this anomaly
before? Neither had I, until the
following incident béfell me:

It was on a particularly cold day
in January. One of those days on which

| the least breath of wind makes the unprotected person feel himself shrivel
or rather feel himself squeezed, choked,

‘Science

unable to breathe—nauseated. On such
days, the changing of classes.is done
bery hastily.

“TI must have been late leaving the
Science Building, this particular. day,
for when I arrived at the Arts building

there were about twenty students,
(mostly men coming from the Science
building), waiting to get in. They

were huddled as closely as possible to
the door, in a pitiful. attempt to take
advantage of the purely imaginary
Mhelter from the blowing snow offered
by the pillars of the portice. There
Was nearly as large a number on’ the
inside of the door.”

“First, five or six girls would come
out, followed by three or four men.
Those outside were crowded so close
about the door that this meagre opening
had almost disappeared. Those who
came out had to turn themselves edgeways and shuffle out crab-fashion
each one elbowing his way through
the crowd and taking about half a
minute to do so. After a certain
number of men had come out, the
ontsiders broke through and shouldered
their way in. Soon a few more female
students appeared on the inside, and
some timid, chivalrous ‘outsider’ stopped
to let them come out, and a number of
men followed before this polite individual forced his way in and_ started
traffic in the other direction. This
cycle was then repeated.”

‘‘As I stood there in the bitter cold,
waiting to get in, a rather pleasant
numbness stole over my ‘body and
through my brain.”

‘I am told that when one succumbs
to overpowering cold he feels disinclined
to keep moving for the sake of warmth,
and drops into a sort of sleep, filled with
pleasant. dreams and _ hallucinations,
as he is freezing to death.”

“Such, perhaps, was my state when
I saw two men come up the steps, one
a carpenter and the other—Him in
charge of such things. He in charge
carried a door-closer; the carpenter
carried one of those apparatuses which
are used on exit doors of the theatres.
This apparatus consists of a horizontal
bar, as long as the door is wide, which
when pushed against, actuates two rods
fastened to the catches at the top and
bottom of the door, releasing these
catches and allowing the door to open.
As the two figures ascended the steps
and approached the door, an increasing
weariness seemed to come over them.
They stood before the door several
minutes, the picture of lassitude. Finally the carpenter, with the air of one
who hopes to find that he will be unable

 

then goes on:

“One man has property in lands, another in goods '

another in a business, another in skill, another in reputation, and
whatever may have the effect of destroying the property in any
one of these things, is in my opinion destroying property of a most

valuable description.”

The plagiarist, the pirate destroys the property of two persons:
the property of the author of the original literary work and the }|

reputation of the paper.

Besides the act of plagiarism or piracy

motets - violation of a duty of care to those who foster the Gazette; the person not only lifts an article cuts it down, mutilates and other|W ise destroys it, but also exposes the paper in which the pirated

and a flagrant disregard for the property of others.
Walne, V. C., in the case of Dixon vs Holden (1869) my,

* 7 Equity Cases 492, asks the question: ‘‘What is property?”

article appeared to prejudice and bring it, as the books say,

eatced, contempt and ridicule.”’

 

  

.

‘into

TO THE MED HOP? NOV. 5th

November 2th, 1928

 

HOWLERS

THE TATTLER a OLD MAIDS

 

The “‘Tattler’s’’ remarks in the last
issue of the Gazette are vehement to say
the least. However, if the Old Maid’s
Sorority of Shirreff Hall is going to
stage; a dance, I think everyone will
join 4n a joyful shout ‘Long live the
Old Maids!”’

Asjfor the ‘‘blasphemous assertations
regattling their last meeting’’ to which
gs eternal in the human breast.’ After|the “Tattler” refers; this information
all the old girls présent had been told | was gathered from the members of the

by the spirit under the bed that they} Sorority themselves. This seemed to
would marry big Dal boys, the anid be the only business of the meeting

The last meeting of the Old Maid’'s
Sorority took the form of a Seance.
The ghosts of the past, present and
future hovered about and delivered
messages of hope to the spinsters. The
Past said ‘‘You'll never get this chance
again;” the Present murmured, “Make
hay while the sun shines,”” While the
Future glowingly shouted, “Hope sprin
spirit was found to be only the ghost which stood out in their minds.
of a college cheer leader who was always| ‘‘The Tattler’? pays no fine comptrying to boost Varsity. liment to the Students’ Council when
The occasion being old Maid’s Day |she insinuates that they didn’t have the
the picture of K. Miller, a typical old| Gym floor in: good condition for their
maid was unveiled and an appropriate] dance. The Students’
speech delivered by Marg. Mackie. | well take this’
Then the meeting was thrown open to|to Moot Court.
discussion. Much was said pro and fault of the Students’ Council that
con, concerning the old slogan ‘You|girls’ feet, and boys’, too, for that
can lead a horse to water but you can’t| matter, are larger than the size two's
make him drink’. Al Nelson suggested or thereabouts of our worthy grandgiving the -er- horse a shove into the| mothers and grandfathersmatrimonial stream, but Ed Barnaby In closing let me make a friendly
said it flavored of roughneck tactics] suggestion. In future, impress upon
and she always hated prizefights plus| your members the important points of
argument with Miss Lowe. the poring rather than the unimportant
Just before the party broke down | ones
synthetically curled heads were put
Muc h is to be expected from
in

Council might
‘blasphemous assertation a
Then, too, is it the

oat Set
Se

together.
this discussion, muc h is afoot
for there is a dance in the future.

fact

French II.—Prof. Gautheron: ‘‘What
were the last words I said on Tuesday?”
Student:

— ‘The Tattler”

Oo ‘ ~*~ .
‘Full stop, sir.”
* * *

It makes me shudder to think how
many poor little snakes and alligators
have been killed to make shoes for the
girls at Shirreff Hall.

* * *

Morton, the Freshman debater of
last Thursday, has succeeded in entering Pine Hill Residence.

Fleeing the wiles of women,
me.

we ass
¥ FF It is rumoured that the girls at Shirreff
Hall are anxiously looking forward to
the Alumnae holding another meeting
at the Hall. The Alumnae certainly

know how to make cake.
* k *

Wright’s new theory
of perpetual motion. In an interview
with Mr. Wright said that science
need have no fear as he had decided to
let the old law remain unchanged for a
while.

Regarding Geo.

Florence Brewster, P. P., (popular
poetess) returned to the University last

Saturday from her home in Moncton.
* * &

* * *

Ha.-Ha.
There was a young lady of Pisa,
Whose lover attempted to squisa,
But she lost all her charm,
W hen he said with alarm,
“My goodness, how knobby your knisa.

Robert Cumming Robb was married
and Mrs.
on June 8, at Phil
to Jane’ daughter of Mr.
Perry H. Sands,
adelphia.
* * *€

Doing Research Work—Herbert A.
Davidson, one of this year’s graduates
from the Halifax School of Art, has gone
to OtWawa where he will be engaged
until September doing research work

Sounds like the Moot Court.

Down in Arkansas a man was tried
for assault and battery with intent to
kill. The State produced as evidence
the weapons used, a rail, a gun, saw, and

rifle. The defendant's counsel exhib-| for the Archives Department. Mr.
ited as the other man’s weapons a| Davidson belongs to Middleton.
scythe blade, pitchfork, pistol, dog.

* * me
razor, and hoe. After being out several

hours the jury gave> this weediehs We,
the jury would have given a dollar to
have seen the fight.”

The Engineers have entered the’ soft
ball league. A: A.

Ferguson will -be..’
team manager.

 

 

 

to go to work, qr work. Neadeuchn icles the ae T tries the un
| re-enact the scene, but always I have
fastener gadget in place against the

been jostled up to the door and awak
door. But what a hope! It fits per-| ened before they have got to the point
fectly. A look of paid and dejection| of leaving; and with that peculiar
showed in his face as he realized he had | illogical logic of a dream, I could not
no excuse for not attacking the gadget.| ask them why they were leaving until
However, catching a companion-in-| they were leaving.” :

misery look from, Him in Charge, he “The question still haunts me—
did not go to work, but merely stood| why did they not fix the door? I do
there until He murmured something|not know. But perhaps on some

which I could not make out:
started away. I called to them, asking
why they did not finish their job, but
by this time I was getting close to the
door and the increased jostling and
elbowing was waking me up; the unruffled calm of my mind was becoming
confused—-I was no longer en rapport

then they] especially cold day when there is an
unusually largé number of co-eds
leaving the buildings, and a very chiyalrous line ahead of me, perhaps then,
as my blood congeals and the numbers
steals through my brain, perhaps in the
clear cold light of death, in the light of
the world where all things shall be made

with them, and I could not make out] clear, then, then I'll find the reason

what they replied.” for it all. For I would so much like to
‘Once inside I soon thawed out, but | know.”

I could not easily forget the vision. My friend sat silent for a moment

Why had they not put the door right?| pondering. Then he straightened up

What explanation could they have|and said, ‘‘Yes, perhaps you will find

< ; .
offered: an explanation in the next world ..

A number of times since, while waiting but I don’t think there's any reason
to get into the Arts building on very|in this world why it should be left as
cold days, I have seen the two begin to tis.”

7 =
, QUALITY
SPORTING

GOODS
AND

A COMPLETE
MUSICAL
SERVICE

That is what we have to offer the Young Men and Wises who are
attending Dalhousie. You are assured of complete satisfaction here.

 

 

456-460 BARRINGTON ST. - HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
       
   
 

  

=

Tie
: J

: ie
aw

7
i

 
   
  
     
 
 
 

The
AND
_ NEWSY!

1
a
ty®

*
i ”

 
   
        
      
    
      
     
     
    
    
    
      
    
    
   

A
— A. 4 *
Lene :
em .
ae
em A 2
a a »f
?

DRY CLEANING,
ip. AND PRESSING

VALET

  

is

"

STUDENTS

sz Sackville Street,

 

_ || JEWELLERY

Class Jewellery.

 
   

of our very best service.

 
 
 
   
   
  
     
         
 
   
  
   
  
    
  

“ - Diamond. Merchants

 

|} _ INVITATIONS
B DANCE PROG
a Etc. Etc.

a
1 th y
ia .

| Pubtishers of
ff. Gameron’s'*Osteo!
‘ ‘m tee! 
 
  
   
    

3
a

rs

PPT)

  

2 cents per day

to serve you

 
 
  
 
  
  

 
   
   
  

Best Sodas

" a q |
x Rk noe ie al
ae Pt
sigh mae ¥ a

ben

a. i
— —<e a
a PT

ye ope
= a

_ Best Meals

ve:

 
 

Printers

    

   

  

 

‘TeYou Want

T

   
  
  

  
 
 

THE HOME OF

‘|| Cut Flowers & Potted Plants
ot Designs,
Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are th
members of the T. F. D.

We can wire Flowers

to all parts of the world.

t ae

ae ee oe 4

8 BLOWERS ST.

 
  
 

ie BoP ‘
; Pas i ’
iy 4

Chronicle
ifax Baily Star

| ACCURATE! |
. : ‘DEPENDABLE!

| HUBLEY’S

DYING

| SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT
GIVEN TO DALHOUSIE

| Tickets - $2.00. Less Discount
Phone §. 109

We enjoy the distinction o
makin spractically all Dalhousie

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them

Mi es Y BIRKS & SONS
I HENR atop as
HALIFAX

Phone Sack 195

| The RossPrint Ltd
| Printers, Publishers, Bookbinders

_ |} We Specialize in Society Printing of all kinds, such as

} ANNOUNCEMENTS
, RAM

Always first in quality
Very moderate prices

“ nal Anatomy”’
y & Arthology”’ ,

 
  

n4D:0S, VICTRO

/ Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

fel 4 We invite you to join our
J FITION LENDING: LIBRARY
| MeDonald Music Co.
93 Barrington St. Halifax

For Young People as
wellas older folk

Our entire Staff is*waiting

Best Confectionery

- SEE WALLACE

B oopTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN |
Boyv.M.A.c. 8U23. 44-' 746,

7 | * * ; > > ;
Say. it with Flowers, Say it with ours

~The Rosery

       
  
 
 
  
 
       
      
     
   
     
       
          
    
  
   

A eS

        
       
          
      
     
     
     
       
     
   
    
 
     
     
    
         
       
   
         
         
     
        
      
      
 
 
   

The Green Lantern |

_. PRINTING
f For People Who Care
t We keep promises
-. - and Deliver on time.

—~f NOVA PRINT Ltd
; /227-229 Hollis Street
~ -Phone S. 3800-3801

Commercial & Society

0 See WELL |

The Sermon

Beloved fellow—travellers, in holding
forth to-day,

I will not quote a special verse for what
I have to say:

The sermon will be very short, and now
I'll give my text:

That half-way doings will not count, —
In this world or the next.

 

When Moses led the Jews across the

water of the sea,

They had to keep on going, as fast as
fast could be.

Do you think that they could ever

have succeeded in their wish,
And reached the promised land at last,
if they had stopped to fish?
No half-way doings, brethern! It will
never do I say!

Go at your task and finish it, and then
the time to play,

For even if the crop is good, the ram
will spoil the bolls,

Unless you keep on digging in the

garden of your souls.

Whatever ‘tis you'r driving at, be sure
to drive it through,

And don’t let trifles stop you, but do
what you're going to do.

I see that our collector is about to pass

the hat,

And don’t lets have these half-way

doings when it comes to that.

The organist will oblige us now by
raising up a tune
So I thank you for the ‘tention given
here this afternoon.
—M. A. B.

a

‘A Tea Kettle Sings When It’s Full’.
You should visit the Draughting room
and hear the number of kettles pealing
forth their hearty voices. Also it would
be fun to read the remainder of the
above which appears on the notice
board.

 

Transit

Preparations are already under way
for .the big dance. Suggestions for
novelties, lighting effects, and many
new features are steadily pouring in,
which shows a real live interest on the
part of members of the Society. If the
interest keeps at the high level it now is,
the first dance after Christmas will
surely be the best of the year.

A committee, consisting of Messrs.
Power and Trites has been elected,
which along with the Executive will
consider any possible improvement
which can be made in our insignia.
The present emblem though somewhat
plain is serviceable, but a new one, more
descriptive, will be welcomed by all.

 

a

SIR HERBERT SPEAKS

 

(Continued from Page 1)
ions and the League became the executive to carry out the terms of the
peace treaty. Incidentally this latter
is one of the reasons why the United
States does not wish to enter the League.
Only nations showing the proper ‘‘League spirit’ were permitted to enter,
and of sixty-five eligible nations, fiftyfive are already members of the League.
Article 3 of the covenant provides for
an assembly consisting of a representative from every nation in the League
and having the extensive license to
deal with any matter affecting the
peace of the world. No decision could
be rendered by this assembly except
it be one of unanimity. Many wonder
that the assembly could ever reach any

|| agreement, but ‘‘when people have to

agree, they do”. sy
There is also a Council in the League
consisting of nine permanent members

i | and five who are elected for a term of

three years. Canada has an elected
member at the present time. The
Council also has the power to deal with
any question affecting world peace.
Sir Herbert acted as treasurer of the
League for six years and great significance may thus be attached to his: remark, ‘the expenses of the League is the
most difficult nut to crack’.
Probably the most important section
of the whole covenant is article 10, dealing with territorial integrity. Any
nation which enters the League agrees
on the boundaries as they now exist.
Article 11 provides’ that any war or
threat of war whether immediately
threatening any member of the League
or not, is declared a matter of concern
to the whole League. Articles 12-15,
inclusive, deal with methods of arriving
at peaceful settlements of international
disputes. Just now we hear much about
the Kellog pact which rules that nations
must no longer settle disputes by warfare but it does not suggest any optional
behaviour. In contrast to this the
League covenant provides three methods
of settlement: (1) voluntary arbitration;
(2) inquiry by the Council; (3) judicial
settlement. In the case of ‘an inquiry
by the Council, if the Council reaches
an unanimous settlement, then the
conflicting states must abide by its
decision. The Council is allowed six
months to settle a dispute and if it
fails to reach a decision at the end of
this period (this is the loophole for war)
a still further elapse of sixty days is
called for before the opposing countries
may declare war on each other. These
foreed delays have the same general
effect as ‘counting ten before swearing”.
Long intervals of time perform wonderful pacific duties’. Article 16 deals
with sanctions. A sanction is_ the
prohibition of all commercial, financial
and personal intercourse between a
member of the League which has illegally resorted to war, and all other nations
n closing the speaker lauded that
entirely new system regarding ‘‘man‘dates, whereby. an undeveloped and
unprogressive country goes to school,

a

ee:

 

What a veritable Utopia would be the
country devoid of natural or artificial

classes and unfettered by monopolies.

and the countless other unjust restrictions which class presupposes; a land in
which liberty, equality, and fraternity
formed the keystone of society’s foundation.

In this age such a land can only exist

‘on paper’, yet great masses of uneduc
ated foreigners believe that America,
and particularly Canada, is the new
Promised land. What a violent and
complete disillusionment is in store for
them on their first visit across the

“Red Sea”.
INDIA

No other country is more notable
for its classes or castes than India.
The castes and caste requirements of
this vast territory have always been
held up to ridicule and scorn by the
Western world. It amuses us greatly
when we read that, in India, a mason
will not recognize a carpenter, or that
the man who mows the lawn is highly
insulted if requested to groom the horse.
And when we discover that a member
of one of the upper castes, possibly the
military caste, may only approach
within a certain fixed distance of some
tradesmen of a lower caste, we wonder
whether everyone carries a tape measure
in his pocket or if the streets in the
cities are several miles wide! Represented in this manner, the customs of
the Hindoos do appear very ridiculous
and yet when one traces their origin
and growth a considerable degree of
justification becomes apparent. Caste
forms are based chiefly on religious and
political policies, though partly on
geographical divisions, and the worst
that can be said against them is that
their influences militate against desirable conditions of international trade,
and that the parentage of the Hindoo
limits his fields of endeavour despite

his possession of any special natural }

ability. In contrast to this state of
confusion and inconvenience, we fondly
consider ourselves indeed privileged
to belong to a country in which no
classes exist and the humblest tradesman rubs shoulders with the highest
officials. How faithfully and_persistently we are deluding ourselves!

Before completely removing the mote
from the Hindoo’s eye, suppose we
consider the beam in our own orb. Is
it not true that in any city of our country
there is always a number of wealthy
people who move in a select and exclusive circle having money as its
inevitable and only password for admission? These people also control
many social institutions
frequently they patronize only those

business concerns operated by members:

of their own clique.

IN THE WEST

A social evening for policemen, a
college dance, or a governor's ball
(when the governor has a dance—its a
“ball’’) are common events. in our
society; but is it not a striking paradox
that in a country so free from class
distinctions, one should never meet
a traffic cop at a governor's ball, and
that a-.stenographer at a_ students’
dance is a rare and unexpected anomaly?
When a housewife is spied by her domestic in a public place she may address
a few hasty words to the latter and
pass on, but just as frequently she will
suddenly remember something she needs
in the nearest store. The business
man goes round the corner for a haircut
but he seldom lingers in friendly conversation with the barber. Similarly
the barber orders his coal from a local
merchant but he never suggests to the
truck driver that they spend an evening
together at the bowling alley.

So it goes right down the scale—
no matter how low a man’s standing in
society there is always someone just a
little deeper in the mire!

STUDENTS

Most amusing of all is the student
‘order’... Among the students themselves there is approximately a thousand
different degrees of high-hattedness
but there is only one established point
of contact between the student body
and the rest of the world. The salient
features of this attitude are those of
pleasing affability (hail-fellow-well-met
stuff) and delightful condescension.
They give the ‘lesser intellectual’ the
impression that they are going to slap
him on the back and ask ‘‘How’s she
going, buddie?” “The psychology of it
all is really not obstruce. The student
goes down town with the impression
that all attention is centred on him
and that he is the local point of countless glances of envy and servility. This,
confident that he,on an elevated pedestal far beyond the reach of the vulgar
mob, the student is touched with
sympathy for the unenlightened (in
reality his sense of importance has
invaded his head) and he decides
to demonstrate that even a person who
has attained such heights of scholarship can take time to be human—
the result is he acts as if he were a
Santa Claus among the kids!

Yes, we have our classes all right,
and if they are not quite so clearly
definéd as thdse of the Hindoo, they
are none the less distinct factors in the
division and, sub-division of our society. Figuratively, the only difference
between a Hindoo of an upper caste
and a member of our own American
upper ‘‘caste’’ is that while the former
may preserve at all times a distance
of not less than eighteen feet between
himself and some particular artisan,
the latter just as religiously preserves
the eighteen feet and allows a few feet
grace’to assure a positive prophylastic
against. ‘contamination’. The Hindoos
make no secret of caste and their whole
society is based on candid principles.

People of the western hemisphere are
hopelessly ruled by classes and _ their
decidedly ineffectual attempts to gainsay this fact makes their social ‘unity’,

so to speak, to a more highly developed | in turn, a justifiable object of Eastern
ane

| and prosperous nation.

derision.

and very:

Pei te ho ae

ae
_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

~ | STUDENTS, | HINDOOS AND SNOBS

NO CLASSES |

 

Meditation

I scuffed along the burning sands,
Disconsolate,

And kicked upon a shell

Lying there in burning bed,— ;
To it a rasping Hell!

 

I stopped to pick the wee thing up,
So parched and white, me
And over me.there came

A feeling of such priggish guilt,

I shuddered in my shame.

The bit of line was empty, quite,
And boney dry,

For in the end I saw

A tiny hole a worm had made

To reach the living core.

And I reasoned as I looked at it,
Forgetting me,

How a little snail must feel

Was a gnawing, gnawing on its shell,—
A worm breaking its seal,—

Knowing soon the time would come,

In spite of all,

(And it could only wait,)

When the killer boring thru would make
Its house well desolate.

And then my thoughts came back again,
To selfish me.

I’ with life, with strength and mind,
And ‘‘Master of My Fate” as well,

How dear, then, I should find.

This world wherein I live my life
Just as I choose;

For humans have the power

Of making life seem wrong or right
And Fate before them cover.

©’ little snail, you've gone your way
Lond since forgot

By comrades of the sea.

But you gave your life, | know not when,
To teach a fool like me.

—M. S. W.

 

Charles
MacDonald

(Continued from Page 1)

And a word about the man to whose
honour the library was built JHe came
to Dalhousie in 1863, appointed to fill
the Professorship of Mathematics. He
was a man whose worth is incalculable
and whose influence on Dalhousie is
felt even today. A gifted teacher, a
true scholar, and an exceptional personality, he endeared himself to all whom
he met. Some idea may be given of the
man when we learn that he insisted
in giving his usual lectures five days

 

before his death in 1901 when it was | ‘e
1 Our New Department.f}| ||.

written ‘“‘we each have our recollections,
‘we each Cherish our memories of him
who has passed away; and we all feel
that a chapter in the history of Dalhousie
is closed forever.’

JOE COLLEGE
AND HIS CHUMS

‘Hello, old pal—how are you? Isn
this a terrible day for the game! Just
like an empty purse!”’

“How is that, Joe?”

“Oh, we don’t expect to find any
change in it’’.

‘He, ho! you must have slept in the
knife box last night, old boy!”’

“Ves, I am rather sharp this morning.
But surely you can ‘razor’ joke?”’

“Oh, go hon! By the way what's
happened to that awful gramaphone of
yours, old boy?”

“T sold it, simply played it for one
whole evening while the fellows were
trying to study, and they clubbed
together and bought it from me.”

“Ha, ha, ha, That's a good one!”’

“By the way, | have bought a new
car, and should like to have your opinion
of the engine.”

“You don't pay any attention to the
finish, Joe?”

‘Not likely! You see, all my cars have
the same finish—either a shop window
or a brick wall!”’

“Why, that’s nothing! Once I went
to run right under a full moon—such
a lovely bright moon it was—and found,
to my surprise, there was a pole under
it reaching right down to the ground.
Funny, wasn’t it?”

“Tragic! I'd call it.”

_ “By the way, Joe, a friend of yours
informed me that you have a _ jolly
good voice. You ought to accept
Muschamp’s invitation to Shirreff Hall.
Do you take anything before you sing?”

“Yes, I always take a deep breath.”’

“Well, Well! that vanquishes the
band! You certainly. are priceless,
Joe. Talking about price reminds me,
there’s a huge shoe sale at Wallace’s
to-day.”

“But I don’t take huge shoes, you

 

idiot. If you don’t believe me look
and see. Always verify your references.”

“Oh, my the way, Joe, did you go
to the Freshie-Soph debate. I hear
the sophomores are trying to get the
freshmen to start like in the right way—

some new way they want tried out”’.

“Yes, isn't that silly? as if Freshmen
ree start life just like everyone
else.

‘‘How is that, Joe?”

“As an infant’.

“Ha! that’s not bad! You are funny!”

“I was funnier then, though’’.

“Oh, here comes the business manager.
I must go.”

“Why, has he a bill—?”

No, just an ordinary nose.”

Don't. aon personal remarks, Joe.
I can’t stick that kind of a joke.”

“By the time you've been a senior
for a year, old bird, you'll be able to
stick anything,—even a walking stick!
Cheerio!”

—M. A. B. '29. |

 

 

SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Never Mind!

Page Three . '

*

  
 

       

 

There will soon be an epidemic of
letter writing among the Engineers.
The reason is obvious. Toey are about
to procure Engineering stationery of
the finest Vellum, beautifully embossed
with the crest of the Society. Many

have availed themselves of this opportunity to procure the finest writing
paper at a minimum of cost.

 
       
     
       
     
   
   
   
     
     
     
     
    

| COLLEGE COLORS

| We have a good supply of our
| distinctive Dalhousiestationery
i) Neat size crest, die stamped in
| yellow and black on high class
parchment paper, club size, with
| envelopes stamped to match, suitable for ladies or gentlemen.

Sold in bulk only, buy any quah
tity you require.

| Faulkner’s Book Store
16 Spring Garden Road

Visit Our Accessory
Shop

on the Ground
Finot, 00 0:

| JENSEN & MILLS

CO., LIMITED
Spring Garden Road

 
 

Gauvin & Gentzel

Photographers .

&

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

 

FROM THE
WINNERS Pere

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you. |

CRAGG BROS , CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s. :

VALETERIA (

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Piessed, for 75c or 4 Ti kets
for $2.00,

NECKTIES cleaned I''c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

Sack 428 Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING
PRESSING

CLEANING

 

      

 

 

aa SONG SHOP 7.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC
22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, : : Canada

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

 

 

 

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

 

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

Text Books
Looseleaf Note Books
Special ‘‘Lab’” Book
Fountain Péns
-Eversharp Pencils

 

Prompt. attention

‘ given ;
Special Orders’ oat oe Gl

 

Fountain Pen Repair |
Specialists |

FARRELL’S

New Store
446 Barrington Street »

 

 

Studebaker Touring
$225.00 Ve

5 New Tires—Good Condition

Atlantic Motor Sales . |
|
|

Dondonald Street

 

 

 

George F. Power. |,
€igars, Cigarettes, Tobacco F i

“+

       

SMOKERS JRE QUISITES

of every Description

    
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
   
     
     
   
   

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX,

OurHigh Quality Standard

makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS\:
FULE (DRESS and”)
TUXEDO , at one

price
MADE TO-MEASURE hs)
Tip Top Tailors|

THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS ~ jf

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

 
  

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO
STUDENTS 4
SUITS & OVERCOATS

CONDONS

MEN’S STORE

 
+.
a

    

   

TIGERS UNDEFEATED |
5} THIS SEASON

The intermediates won their fourth
straight game and clinched the City
Intermediate football league by defeating the Wanderers second team

 

Saturday afternoon on the eastpus
en

previous to the senior game. W

the final whistle blew Dal had scored
six points and their rivals three. It was
the first time their line has been crossed
this year. Jones scored the try for

the Wanderers and ‘‘Hoot’’ Mahon and

Eddie Ross placed the ball behind the
Wanderers line.

The intermediates have a great record
this year, having won four league games ,
and lost none; and have scored 35 points
against a lone try for their opponents.
In an exhibition game they trimmed
Nova Scotia Tech. 9—0, while the best |

_ the St. F. X. Seniors could do against

- quins, Fate plays the principal part

- Arts, Commerce and Engineering in the

Tech. was to win 6—3.

In the game Saturday they showel
plenty of pep and were on the ball all
the time. The three-quarters engaged
in some pretty passing bouts and some
nice open field running. All the players tackled hard and clean and the)
Wanderers were pretty well bottled up.
The scrum worked well and controlled
the ball on all but three occasions. |

Dal kicked off and followed up fast,
keeping the Wanderers in their own
territory. ‘The Wanderers worked the
ball up the field with some nice runs and
good punting. The Dal team returned
the punts, but the Wanderers had the
wind with them, giving them an_advantage in the ,.xchange. The Tiger |
team returned the ball and carried it
to the clubmen’s 25 yard line. A punt’
to centre, which bounced over Tom)
Goudge’s head was picked up by Jones, |
who carried it over for their only try. |
The Tigers tried hard to even matters |
up, but the Wanderers held them safe.

Dal returned the kick-off at the start
of the second half and the three-quarter |
line made some nice gains with their
punts and runs. With the wind behind
them they had the better of an exchange
of kicks and carried the ball to a threatening position. Shortly after the middle
of the half, Mahon picked up a loose
ball and carried it ten yards for a try.
With the score tied both teams fought
hard to gain the lead and play was even
for a short period, when the Tigers
once more began an advance which
ended only when Ross carried the ball

 

 

over for a winning try. Soon after
the kick-off, with Dal threatening again,

the whistle ended the game.
-Line-upFull-back, Goudge: halves,
Ross, Thompson, Fraser, Eaton, Murray
Power, Jennings (Capt), forwards, MacLeod, Grant, Magonet, Mahon, Miller
Conrad, McRae. ].G.M.

“DRUMS OF LOVE”
TS. GRIFFITH
MASTERPIECE

(Review)

_. Creeping unseen into the lives of
three persons, aided by the hands
of a clown who has the natural distaste for his. master of all manne
 

in D. W. Gritfith’s ‘Drums of Love,”
which will be given its premier showing
at the Majestic Theatre, next Monday,
Tuesday and Wednesday.

The picture transplanted an_ enthused audience bodily into the South
America of a hundred years ago when
the nobility of Europe tried to set
up a new aristocracy in the new world
as the old fell at the close of the French
Revolution.

Don Cathos, the hunchback duke,

layed by Lionel Barrymore; Don
temrdes, his brother, Don Alvarado
and Emanuella, played by Mary Philbin,
created living characters rather than
characterizations.

Their portrayals brought new beings
into flesh and blood existence just as
the pen of Shakespeare and Goethe
made Hamlet and Marguerite immortals, in the opinion of those who saw the
picture.

——<__—_—________—_——_

Soft Ball

A meeting of those interested in
soft-ball was held in the gym Tuesday
afternoon and it was decided to organize an inter-faculty league, with Law,
Dentistry and Meds in one section and

 

other.

The series will be two round affairs
and the winners of each section will
play off for the championship.

 

Tomorrow at 2.30 on the foot-ball
field the lawyers and the dents will
engage in battle and immediately after
a and Engineers will take the
ield.

—_—_—_———_o_____—_—_——_

GARRICK NOTES

 

This week the patrons of the Garrick
theatre are enjoying that superb play
“Grumpy”, in which Roger Liversey is

ing new laurels for himself. Decidedly a play that everyone will like,
and well presented.

Next week Somerset Maugham's
“Lady Frederick”, which needs no
introduction to students of the modern
play, will be the attraction at the
Garrick, and this will be the concluding
offering of the Glossop-Harris English

ertory Company at the Garrick
theatre for this engagement, their
closing night coming on Nov. 10th.

Stuaents would do well to bear in
mind the fact that only this week and
next will they have opportunity of
enjoying plays by the English Repertory
company now at the Garrick,

a

ND TEAM WINS
INTERMEDIATE LOOP

 

|
* i  —
—————

     
 

    

INS

 

 

LEADER

=

Don McRae leading scoret in Saturcays
Sports
_—_—_—_——__—_e_______—_—_—_

Dalhousie To Play
United Services

Tomorrow afternoon. Dalhousie senior ruggers will play their last scheduled
game of the City league when they run
up against the United Service fifteen
at the Wanderers grounds. The Tigers
chalked up a 3—( victory when they
met the Service men a few weeks ago and
will be out to repeat in the hopes that
they might yet reach a play-off position.
The Gold and Black are. tackling a
hard proposition and need all. the
support they can get. Don't be a
“fair-weather’’ supporter and. just go
to the game when your team is far in the
lead: but turn out for a game like tomorrow’s when they need you the most.

——————____

 

GYM NOTES

Basketball is- going to be a big sport
at Dal this year judging from the preparations being made for the coming
season. It is possible that there will
be a short interfacultv league played
before Xmas while the girls will get
under way with. an interclass league
next Thursday evening.

The girls interclass league is something new st Studley an “hould develop much material for the senior
team which is considerably weakened
by the absence of several last year's
stars.

Last night two Freshette teams played
a fast game in the gym and among
the number who turned out were several
of first team calibre.

The girls league will be composed of
two teams from the freshman class and
teams from the Sophomore, Junior and
Senior classes as well as a strong squad
from the ranks of the Kings co-eds.

Increasing numbers of students are
taking advantage of the facilities offered
by the gymnasium for exercise and
recreation and this year promises to be
a banner one in this line of work.

A.large number of students are
showing a keen interest in the interclass volley-ball league which will
soon get under way. Class representatives should get busy and get their
men out for practice before the first
game.

Badmington players are going strong
and the ladder tournament which
started last week is well under way.
The winner of the tournament will be
presented with a suitable trophy.

 

The wrestling class held their first
practice session on Wednesday evening
while the adherents of the other manly
art have had several strenuous workouts.
Several have signified their intention
of entering the next amateur tournament to be held in the city among
those being Jim McLeod hefty Cape
Bretoner who has been showing fine
form in the heavyweight class.

———

FOURTH VICTORY

 

While the senior fifteen practically
lost the city championship the Intermediate outlit took their fourth straight
ame and the Junior Championship.
heir record is indeed one to be proud of.
Thirty-five points chalked up in four
games with their own line crossed but
cnce. This year marks the third time
in ten years that the junior team has
annexed the city title.

5

*

 

a= = r Werte 7

PA ETS gS, ep ere

_. DALHOUSIE ¢

  

Ut

    

GAZETTE _

SBY TITLE

 

 

 

FINE SHOWING IN |
~ ATHLETIC MEET

Three records went by the boards,
Arts won the championship and much
promising material for the track team
was unearthed at the~ annual interfaculty track and field meet held on the
Studley field Saturday morning. Only
about two hundred students turned out
for the meet due to the cold but in
every other way the morning's sport
was a big success.

Muir, a new man in Dal sport circles,
showed fine form in the mile run and
established a new record for this event
with the time of 4.58 3-5 sec. one second better than the old mark set by
T. J. Murphy in '06.

The mile walk usually one of the
listless events on a sport program was
not so on Saturday with Len Hannon
clipping 22 seconds off his last years
record of 8.40. Hannon started off at
a driving pace and kept it up until he
broke the tape. George Whiteley showing perfect heel and.toe form was close
on the heels of the winner while three
other competitors with three distinct
and novel styles of walking straggled
in some time after.

Both Don McRae and Brittain cleared
the bar at 8.10 in the pole vault but
neither could tack on an extra inch for
victory. The height was an inch better
than the previoys record chalked up
about twenty years ago.

Helen Williams brought further honors to the Sophomore Class when she
cleaned up in both the fifty and twotwenty yard dashes. The blonde Moncton speedster made fast times in both
events and in the finals had comfortable margins of victory. Other lady
stars were M. Milne who took honors
in the 440 yards dash and M. Hibbard
winner of the broad jump.

 

 

WINNERS OF THE EVENTS

The men’s events in order of merit

follows:

100 Yard Dash—1st heat, Zinck,
McDonald; 2nd heat, Miller, Bovyer;
Final, Zinck, (Comm.), McDonald
(Arts), Miller (Comm). Time, 11
1-5 seconds.

220 Yard Dash—Zinck, B. Miller,
Hussey. Time, 24 4-5 seconds.

440 Yard Dash—B. Miller, Kitaefi
(Arts), Magonet (Arts). Time, 53
3-5 seconds.

880 Yard Dash—Parker (Arts),
Muir (Arts), Hussey. Time 2 min.
19 1-5 seconds.

Mile Run—Muir, Irving (Med.)

Hussey. Time, 4 min., 58 3-5 seconds.

(New record).

440 Yard Walk—Hannlon (Arts),
Hennessy (Arts). Time 1 min., 40
3-5 seconds.

Mile Walk—-Hannlon, Whitley (Arts).
Time & min., 16 3-5 sec. (New record).

Running Broad Jump—Bovyer (Arts),
McRae (Arts), Anderson (Kings). Distance 18 ft. 9 in.

Hop, Step»and Jump—McRae, Hart
(Kings), Ebers (Kings). Distance, 35

 

ft.,.& in.

High Jump—Miller (Eng.), McRae, McLeod (Arts). Height, 5 ft.
3 inches.

Pole Vault—McRae and Brittain

(Arts), Smith (Kings). Height, 8 ft.,
10 in. (New record). ;

Shot Put—-McRae, McLeod, Zinck.
Distance, 30 ft., 8 in.

GIRLS EVENTS

50 yard Dash—1Ist heat, J. Dumaresque (Arts), C. Hebb (Kings), and
M. Dauphinee (Kings); 2nd _ heat,
H. Williams (Arts), M. Crocker. (Arts);

Final H. Williams, J. Dumaresque,
M. Dauphinee. Time 7 1-5 seconds.
220 Yard Dash—H. William, M.

Hibbard (Kings), M. Dauphinee, Time
33 seconds.

440 Yard Dash—A. M. Milne, (Arts)
C. Hebb, (Kings), L. Fatrweather
(Kings). Time, 1 mtn. 17 2-5 seconds.

Running Broad Jump—M. Hibbard;
Willett and M. Dauphinee. Distance
9 ft. 9 in.

Oo
TIGERS LEAD

 

Dalhousie on top of the heap in
the Halifax City league standing but in
spite of this have’ but a slim chance for
the championship. Wanderers and
Acadia are tied for second place but if
the Reds win two of their three remaining games the local circuit is done.
Tomorrow’s game will practically decide
which of the four teams will continue in
the league race.

The playing of the Tigers on Saturday
was a big disappointment to their
followers who saw nothing but victory.
It was the rival scrum that gummed
up the works and paved the road for
the Dalhousie downfall. Its a sad
story but the tale is told; the Wanderers
won in a convincing manner.

———___——_—_—~—_—_—__———

BARTHELMESS PLAYS
FRENCH OFFICER ROLE

 

An exact reproduction of a_ fee
mous military barracks at Langres,
France, was made for one of the important scenes in “Out of the Ruins,’’
the newest Richard Barthelmess feature
which will be shown at the Casino
next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.

Marion Nixon is seen opposite the |

opular star for the first time. The cast
includes Eugene Pallette, Robert Fraser,
Bodil Rosing, Emile. Chautard and
others of cinematic note.

In this picture another military role
has been added to the brilliant galaxy
of soldier parts played by Richard
Barthelmess. In this film version of
the Sir Philip Gibbs story, Barthlemess
enacts the colorful role of a French
Blue Devil.

Len Hannon who broke record in mile

    
    
 
 
 
   

 

 

 

 

=
>
aD

walk

CASINO

This
Thursday-Friday-Saturday

JOHNNY
HINES

 

Our Gang Comedy

Next
Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday

RICHARD
BARTHELMESS

“Out of the Ruins” |

   

nani

 

 

 
      
     
     
     
     

SOCIETY
BRAND
CLOTHES

SOLD ONLY AT
Winter-Burns Ltd |

437 BARRINGTON STREET

————

 

STUDENTS

 

Text Books
Note Books
Loose Leaf Books

Stationery, Etc.

 

 
    
 

“The Wright Idea” ||

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM

LIMITED

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street
and Bedford

November 2nd, 1928

 
      
 
  
    
   
  

YELLOW CAB
LIMITED
SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra,

 

THIS WEEK-Thu-Fri-Sat.

“WIN THAT GIRL”

with

— SUE CAROL —

A swift moving comedy of a long
standing football feud and how it was
finally settled

~ COMEDY — FABLE

Mayestic

“DRUMS or
LOVE’’

With An All Star Cast Made By
The Man Who Gave Us “‘BIRTH
OF AN NATION”

HERE’S A PEPPY ONE NOW

PLAYING

“JUST

MARRIED”

     

 

 

 

Special SERVICE
We call for

 

NEXT WEEK-Nov.-5-6-7-8.

“SUNRISE”

with

JANET GAYNOR
and
GEORGE O’BRIEN

The greatest picture of the year

Comedy — Fox News

GARRICK

REPERTORY THEATRE

 

Now Playing
The Glossop-Harris Co.

Present

“GRUMPY”

The Splendid Comedy Success
PLAYING NEXT WEEK

“THE THIEF”

A brilliant Society Drama

 

HATS CLEANED and BLOCKED
SHOES REPAIRED

Given to Students

and celiver

 

 

Specialists

in College

Apparel
THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

Watch our windows

for weekly specials

10% DISCOUNT

TO STUDENTS

 

 

Shortly

“Chere Go The Ships”

Twelve New

Sasas of

Archibald MacMechan

SSS - ae -——

T. C. Allen & Co.

124 & 126 Granville Street

   

 

 

LORD NELSON HOTEL-]
23 SPRING GARDEN RD,

 

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College.

SERVICE— Always experienced
barbers at your service.

Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies at

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

 

| For Better :Clothes

 

 

 

MacDONALD @
FORSYTHE
College Mens’ Overcoats

$15. to $30.

I- Phone L 1421

19 Gottingen St.

    
 
  
   
   

“Ask the men that wears them.”

at Low Prices
Visit 1 |
|

Roxy’s Clothes Shop}

154 Granville Street

“A little out of the way.
Put it pays to work.”’

WELL DRESSED |

the Sea

ee ee

 

at a minimum cost ! |

(Your complete Fall outfit need only cost you $68.15)

Every Item bears the well known label |

 

&éatonia

_ Here is a complete list of each
item and what it costs—get your
Fall outfit now!

&aionia Hat $5.00

= Shirt 2.50
ss Tie 1.00
- Suit 25.00
- Topcoat 25.00
nda Gloves 1.50
a Handk’ef .25
“ Underwear .90
- Wool Socks .75
ee Shoes 5.00
sf Braces 75
= Garters 50

Making a Total of $68.15

| <T. EATON

 

      

 

MES

 
