ras cor vs

    

= = = mad Sa to 7 a af ' F 7 DIAMOND
"4 Cocy E Sty 7 - © <f Ge; Ne Bo die IR + - : JUBILEE OF

= — = + & Ei EI E e + = = ; THE OLDEST
IN OE ree HE ; | thee . ; =: COLLEGE PAPER

  
 
   
   
   
 

  

— Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

HALIFAX, NOVA ‘SCOT IA, DECEMBER 7th, 1928 NO. 9

           
 

 

     
  
  
   

 

onsiders Questions of Concern

 

 

NATIONAL |TR:
Awarded FEDERATION
Soe Professor OF STUDENTS ov

Professor

LEE CLUB [YEAR BOOK

GETS BOOST:
‘AR BOOK | $500 GRANT

pe Ne . 4 AB) 6: New Features,

 
   
  
   
     
     
  

 
     
  
      
 
 

      

   

 

The jury of
a: Gowa

ae
A SAN uy Mur
a

   
  
 

 
 

   
   
    
  
  
   

   

  
  

     
  
   
 

   

    
  
  
 
 
  
  

 
  
 
  
 

   

  
 
 

       
     
 
 
  
    
     

 
 
  
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
    

  

  
  
      

 
  
 
 

 

 
    

        
  

    
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
   
         
   
   
     
     
 
    
   
  
  
    
       

     
  

  
    
 
 
 
   

 
 
  
       
      
   
   
   

 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

     
 
  
    

    
 
 

 
 
  
 
    

   

  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
    

    
   
         

       

         
  
    
    
 

    
  
 
     
     

     
 
  
    

     
     
    

     

     
    
  
 

   
   
    
      
    

 

   
    
 

 
 
   
   
  

   
 
  
 
      
  
  
   
 
   

  
  
  

 

 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
  

 
   
    
     
   
   
   
 

       

     

 

      
 
 

   

 
    
     
       
      

 
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
    
 

        
      
     
 

Debating, Athl |
— &% OC iY PX ne prize} | LJebating, Athietic 2 he ;
K , wae we J nD A +f 1; “a
oe we eer ee. quipment, G Ex- |Site | Pictures, Humour
, | a. eo “Succes ae ie ate hig sion ||] ecg quange of ~ Studehits|f Pe REP RESENT| Better Year ‘Book
k | r os of ' thet = "hy iy i) Mey U.S. CON-.
My ALLEN PRODUCES; ‘Ge | | FOSI ER FRIENY , | ALT’ -% fe STAFF EARLY TO
| MORTON, A FIN- oo y LAIN LORI roa : at WORK
F ISHED ACTOR] || Layreng Cals, Spel,’ we ; : )
z ae riz@@in pose isellusion, hye gietiane ieiia mee z Rm PAN. a enerous grant of $500° from
By EILEEN CAMERON by Fi ce M. Brewster, Nov. i ih a TER [EDIA ’ —_— — cil of the Stu Aveta advertising
A y 23. ; . . » AES of = i : : c Ned and e Lite or al nd manThe benefit performance of the Glee ih EAC: RE eee ahi a on? of th a ertime, stu lents are
Club drew the crowds it merited. The a — ae Seed) ee Sey - A i Aon | ‘ Ane iy st A aane at aoa this
eae reine i rters| MEN PYG. ee ee AEBATG A oO . ce
re st spread good cheer 4 OF pire As Universita iu ae, nd MOGULS M 2 i ; | Sot, | i F conti ee ce was passed, which backed
Saturday night the Gym was crowded | he furthera ¢ a) “4 . ! mcern : i. =x oi = OK Peet to the extent ol
with ians—the students stayed at Ra, pes ae . § ne the ( a
home. The: president was there with tie eee the }
ae ae coe Ae with be 2 ° ei ul : Bs sf =n an ; oO fs i ype
an e oral Society wit | i ccs vat ene nest ie ished b e large
felt 20 Everyone settled in their Dr. E.D MacPhi er a cee Ree Bt red eg) Co "Range rane bars Pics Vocars BR Get lak evade Bt
ee ecpares to stay awhile and Prof. Salen my et fe ate ee i a iW «A € : = eT) are Sn : $ : om ae een a 7 HOtO. enjoy the various amusements before Bisse wi eo Pee ens ATL ¢ On Rae pee raves Gt ENS balldidee Adeliatieoane.,
dancing. They stayed and stayed and , Toronto Speal& F F ft " Reset et r ; : ie aie inte tol Si enes,
stayed, but they didn’t dance. Some- i. qi Reta fey Tis : é mn Cee Rae } h 3 S u : re a ul ein ae DE aC olores d bore der,
, one told the president that “Music| Tyesd { h PB OLS Py EO TER Rp Baa TY DSTI Sales At Vo a akan aa were aythorized" te. purchas ph each page especially designed — by
hath Chae and: like 0 many uesday poems Club. t cn Yet ts ary ae: Panriphdige 3 Oe eae, | Ay ange. SUL OL NORE conTtie ok among a fa, bolleg tists, \ Peatire. “Ban nee
. pe le when they get an idea they | °° of the Sociology Club; Dr. E. D. Seam | | and debating. Which the year will, be ‘“covered”’
h : Rs, Th ¥ | MacPhee, ' Prof: of Psychology at A eeat We ; & pe . 3,4 hike the agreement y humorists, -is being. edited “by W.
i i ‘t Ee sca ee these Toronto Univ., and President of thel}¢ $a AS | SE ate . Tia ce ae Wie uni ity concerning the foot ‘aharh Allen: :
i ee “orchesti eae 0 pee | Toronto—Maritime Provinces, Assoc- , in extess | of ites re TO i anaeplehcher in the event of Aha’ Papers: will be circulated by the
| ‘poh that: Mile fi ; ae lation, BENG « sHORE interesting and | x | ; ; es eur paid for this year it was Jer fusiness Mays ager in the hear future,
only. to a. d © APAie(s8 “an Social Organizations.’ is paid, includ |.to be paid to the Universi ty. le: sheuld have a "4929 Yer ir Book—
age. of jazz ers éf ese pesiples Real He asked the meeting to consider | delegate from each Sti} 35%. e most magivificient and. thé finest
- enj ae was felt the first part. of the as a background, Toronto, a city of Annual Conferenc  heldjgy Mr. Macleod: who was appointe ustrated’ year record, Dalhousie Unive before the resentation of approximately 700,000, inhabitants, one vacation. with Mr. Stewart to-in\ estagat th rsity has ever produce Each person
og evening Sli is ik, tilled : the juvenile court (children “under 16),] Debating. All -Dalhot e stude Aliisc SADE pec a Constitution of the Glee Club as sub-| Signing the’ list this: year ‘is requested
Pilg ; souls end soles of the audience: lifted 100, Protestant pO, 20 Catholic will remember the success! tk /OUSE® A at noth i mitted by Mr. Singer for cons iderat n tO’ pay @ § all deposit. of 50 cents, the
a to ts-..where ones werk schools, upper and lower courts. separ- | Canada made last year by a Mg mee f a tha oF Kreported ‘sev eral conflictions “with..the| total cost, of the book being $2.50.
7S » the sway. of the ated. and a yety large number of Social | Universities’ Debating Team)yoftpvhicl ae wok : i. ey poms AP ouncil constitution. It. w: qs -agreed| This) increase in price. is.only: a-small
f > os ee agen oan felt: is break in the Agencies, comprised ol many _ social Dalhousie was so ably. Fepres ed by Fe Bhe Sona 5 Kin, ing 1O Car mark the conflic ting cla ust and | portion 2 the- total increase » in” Cost,
oe or a progranime should have been the end Markers. Waese standards, ‘of “training Mr. Ernest Howse. The™ NPE. Ura Up in, her 4 gas ee hich return-it to_the Glee Club Executive in fact th total cost: will be- double
“Se of the orchestral demonstration. In- are of a very wide range. is, during the coming: term, sponsoring made Naas 2 er = ti for approval. ae ~7Pthat of-last Saeneay of thé arzny
spired perhaps with their first reception One phase of social work. is Mental | return visit to the Maritimes by a}met bejes not c f the a TeeeD sed The ‘matter of appointing a coach unprovements Phe staff are able Yo
or maybe’ eread heen alli planned . n Hygiene. Mental Mygiene is generally | similar team, composed of three men Cee a hum at wi ae for the: debating team was ° deferréd | do. this through the generosity ofthe
'-advance, the orchestra continued to understood to be “prevention of mental] from ‘western Canadian - Universities, |as resolutions = ah aken by int pending the decision of the Inter-} Council, and chtauett a a litionalfadver| pla after Stage production of Scrooge. disturbances,” but there aré certain} which will debate with ‘Dalhousie on {discussion and ratilication by the) collegiate’ debating committee _ with | tising | .
he. audience: shifted in their ‘seats. types of ‘mental disturbances. difficult March 1, 19 9.. Full announcemeg various debating societies. regard to the form of debating to be| Suggestions for a name for the Dalae 2. | tO ‘prevent; mental deficiency: is appat-) this debate will be made in the Ge It was ‘decided to keep the origina employed this year. If the impromptu | housle Year Book are poutiagin. Have
Contiytied on 1 page s-3) ently one of these. Mental Hygiene i is}and will be awaited with great in schedule but merely to reverse the rebuttal system is used.a coach will be u- sent your suggestion yet- Some
. | not to be, found in the prevention of by the students. position of the visiting and home teams necessary. f; the names under consideration ate:
stibnorma! persons, nor is it.to be iden- 30 that any college which had three Permission ‘was granted. to Sedales} The Dalhousian, | fa ee a. | ittle College.

 
 

tified with subnormelities, for mental In addition to this tour, a N. F
hygiene -is the study-of the state. of S. team is, at present, tours
mind. which enables people to live Old Country on invitation ‘of th
happily and. to work effectively, con- | nt Federations of England, S
sequently there is a mental hygiene for and Wales. Mr. Ronald Hj
‘|subnormal, normal and superior per- | §t@duate of Dalhousie who is st
sons. The question then arises what | Scotland, recently wrote a lettg
On Noy. 15, Dr. Holland addresstd} ore the - controlling factors enabling |Gazette in which he mentigq
the Med. Students and offered helpful | these people to live happily, first as| Splendid showing made by t
constructive criticism. children, then as adults? In Toronto| im that country. Finally, eax
_Durmg the-conduct of business,|there are large racial groups, 45,000| New Year, a team will tour
S were appointed in the differ-/ Jews Jargely labouring class English,| under the joint auspices of th

rips away under the former schedule to send representatives to both the| Black and Gold and The Ramsey.
rould have instead three home debates-| jen’s debating conferences in Truro

: at's SEE LS A Se ae TT |
-Diseussion arose over the oe and the girl’s conference to. be heed in |j
the present organization of the|N B. during the Christmas vacation. : R A N i |
- Sve Tye

  
         
    
    

gue and whether or not it should be Regarding the incorporatir
Rde a more influential and cohesive} ainendments to the constitution, the
ly. To this end a secretary-treas-) matter was left in the hands of the
r was appointed and in the same] Council executive.

as the president with powers and! " plans for a big and better Year Book ae |
ponsibilities of keeping files and} vere then presented to the Council by transits levels,’ tapes and chains
rds of all debates, receive complaints | ., representation of the stalf, consisting | ™#! lave interested Engineers of
in general to exercise an oversight of Messrs Morton and Ma ~{ oll ant i Me! cay 3, b Lt ane LV the ir interest

  
  
 
    
 
   

      
    
      
 
   
    

1ona

   

   

   
        

    
 
  

      
    
    
     
    
      
      
   
   
   
    
     
    
 

manager
, lines of sports, Stirling Giddings | ang ‘a large number of old families,| Student Federation of Amer, nd of il matters pertaining to debating} y4;., Hanifen. Following a lencthly | Centers around bigger things. This was
ted manager of the Soft-ball | The problem then is to put mental] the N. F. C. U.S. and peculiar to the league. discussion the sum of $500.00 was|cVidenced by the fact’ that the second
fram. BF. Ross, manager of hasket- hygiene into a community of this sort.| Athletic Equipment. Under anj{ A small fee of $2 per member was granted for this work and the staff| 20d. third year'men m ane a trip, under
ball eae J. W. “Bunker” Murphy was | [jo you know anything of the conditions ; agreement made with Spaulding ree voted to offset any expenses he might} heartily thanked for their untiring | te leadership of Prof. Can) , to View the
to guide the destinies of those necessary for happy life and effective} the Universities of the N. F. C. U. S.| occur in his duties. labours in connection with this aspect |2s°™ Cold Storage Terminals now under
who ollow the puck for Medicine. work? Only a very small amount can | are obtaining all athletic equipment a a] In order to effect a uniform system] of student activity. ~~~ | construction. The Engineers were con
The consideration of obtaining Christ- | ; 1% h | reducti f 33 1-3% off i . . ST ROCHE “ae Bonet <n ntedte Chee anu EL Hla teat

pe accepted as proved in connection with | reduction o (o Olt tormer Prices: | of judging, it was suggested that if it} The expenses incurred by Jim-Mac- |“, irough by the Engineer in

 
   
 

mas cards poh ar ir poling ee the mental hygiene of the individual. | This speaks for itself. were possible to select a. permanent|Leod in his recent victorious invasion irge of constraction, ie spared no
a eat eels ty Members |The above question then may. be re- Exchange of Undergraduates Sch- | board of judges with specific instructions | of Cape Breton were ordere« # ped alns to give them a complete des
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
    

        
      
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 

 
 
    
 

 
 
    
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   

  
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 

   
   
   
   
 

  

 

was discussed and met with the app-|<tated “In what forms or way rl anal Se
. ys should eme.—This splendid plan, is _to be But as to the manner in which the debate Coat ; rl he plant, and to answer any
7 t | c 2} 6s } 
roval - of ne meeting, Len. Miller (Continued on page 3) in ct : should waored, this ve desira (Continued on page 3 iestions asked.

 

      
 
   
 
    
  

     
 
   
      
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  

 

obtain data an iis B it next ‘inspection ,{ tred
; : i : iiSpecrion our cenrrer
During the ereaing papers were LIBRARY RECEI hird a DR. C. M, MacKENZIE}: Fi el, | the new C. N._R, | Stationerect ees: VALUABLE GI here ill fen at ¢ | | TO REPRESENT DAL =. e ccected. sige. the iiprimaae

Vy crq : Same ) ; et (Sittunagag | eels

 
 

result

A

       
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
     
   
   

 
 
  

   

 
 
  

  
   
   
   
   
   

       
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

 
   
   
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   

    
    
  
   
   
 

 
 
  
   
   
 

    
    
 

  
 
 

 
 

   
    
   

ke on ee of the ne npany. Phis Suk ( <, Pride
: Poe Be considered the disease ; . Having constructed the Quebec pridge,
| Bre pice sopect.and then presented | om oe AGENDA OF CON- | ue h abe Copp. werke =
- & specific case. A specimen recently SCIENTIFIC AND tud the Dalh VENTION |; lho ti As) Was € xpecte “d
_ removed in operation was shown. LITERARY INTER a £ met an old friend, who took us into
_ _ Rae MacLean, presented a paper on . BH: LOSPpe ' | the office and showed us complete
Tabes - Dorsalis and discussed the ? ; of bming C Dalhousie students, who last plans for the. structure.
symptoms on basis of pathology. ThetLibrary has recently r aes Oy Meee | Shared in the honour of having their} 4 tine of the Society was held and
Len Miller presented. an accident |S°m¢ very interesting addition : representative elected Vice-President of | po tamilton was elected bake
case in which the patient had died scientific and literary collectio Om me jthe N.F.C.U.S., are. indeed fortunate] \7 LT ‘3. Ski, a basketball
within twenty-four hours from injuries which tt is very grateful. in the selection of a delegate to this} CS*' @MG t+ > “AKIN hockey mandue to a fall of coal. The clinical]. Mr: Hubert Bradford Vicke ho year’s Conference. At the last meeting | “8°
signs did not the gravity of the|'S one of the most brilliant graduates of the Council of the Students, Dr. Then the big dance was brought up.
- f, tal of Dalhousie, and sho has lately been bad cc M. MacKenzie was appointed to] Afte: much argument pro and con it was
symptoms nor the fatal outcome. : x d : pI g t was
In each case the paper was admirably |@ppointed’ Head of the Connecticut OO am aritan represent Dalhousie. The Council feels} decided to hold, it at the “ord Nelson
prstetiesd and ellicited a great deal of Agricultural Experiment Station, New that there is no man in the University | Hotel They have a fine floor there,

         
  

Haven, has presented it with copies of

in whom the Student Body may place} as the lawyers say, and the dance is the
five articles written by him in con
|

more confidence than in this genial] first after Christmas. and promises to

    
    
  
  

   

discussion. The) next meeting of the
society was held in the Munro Room

   

     

    
  
   

     
 

  

And Help Us 2 ?

   
     

  
      

 

  

   
 

    
  
 

         
  
  

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
     
   
 

         
   
  
  
 

  
 

    
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
    
   
 

  

Thursday evening, Nov. 29. .|junction with Mr. Charles S. Leaven- and capable Doctor, whose sound] be the best dance of the year.
ieee Pat refreshments ee worth for the. Journal of Buiological judgment is, already, making itsell
provided and some interesting papers Chemist and one written jointly every poor child in oe felt : in the ; administration of student ee eee
presented. 95S : affairs at this University. The Council ]
° , . extande_to Dr. Mackwazic the full UNBOU ND
: Bt ae : coy e and best be whole
| “SPEC” SPEAKS : ; : we | p St Body, in eae GAZETTES
. a ’ i 3 in he pres  Dawusie in
on-wide on Of” Student
) Cn ee she Ives at the Gazette Office

b N. F.
nnd insi

h he wi

B S., and may the
to Federation

ire, react, tn

   

in the Forrest Building one may find the
unboun 4 copies of the Dalhousie Gaz
        
     
 

ars, to t t benefit of | t* dating back, very far back. If
d of the } U.S. the ‘se copies remain there much longer,

  
  

the covers will drop off. Covers have
that peculiar habit in these modern
times. Once the covers go, good-bye
to these valuable copies. ;

ili be ¢ speciz ent ‘ hi S. Rx per a for mer editor of the
St. ire inch - | @#zette has kindly offered to’ give his

ay 0 on by support to this move’ to have these copies
aie BO P High- rebound.
way. The Alumnae and Alumni of Dal
Musical programme by Dal- housie may become interested. The
housie Choral Society. cost would not be great.

 
    
   
 

INOUNCEM

  
     
 
        

    
  
   
   
    
 

   
  
  
 
 
 

    

ne” t

  
    
 
 
 

  
  
  
 

™ — Arch#® ed = a
and Dr. Max MacOdrum have
consented to act as judges in
the sonneteers contest, fostered by Professor Gowanloch.

Building office.

a ae

   
  
 

    
      
  

 
 

 
   
  
  
  
 
 

Pe 54)
+:

     

: , a
“eo .e=

   

 
    

  

Founded 1869)
Biter ea eke 8 8 a
<4 es oo eee
AEBS Pog a ina _ PAUL DOYLE

Sarr ern Teh “Ufesharst Bustnkte Manager
ot = > Re & DONAHOE

ea me oo : Reporters
a eta Nee | GEORGE WHITELEY
RAT % FLORENCE M. BREWSTER
ie eg Business THe
af if +, Ss. W. ARCHIBALD
~ 5 Rosebank Ave. Phone L 2291

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year

 

Concerning Plagiarism

na a G

The Gazette is entirely in accord with the views expressed in the
letter from the Jury of Award, and commends it on its stand.
Regarding plagiarism the Gazette of Nov. 2nd, 1928, has already
gone on record as warning all future contributors against plagiarism
as areprehensible practice to be dealt withaccording to its desert.
Piracy is a grave breach of faith with Alma Mater; a violation of
a duty of care to those who foster the Gazette and a flagrant disregard for the property of others.

This sort of business must stop. The Gazette after a careful
study of the matter is placing it in the hands of the Council of Students. Such conduct as offering plagiarisms in competition for
prizes constitutes the gravest violation of the traditionally fine
honour of Dalhousie Students.

Books and Reading

 

It is only within a comparatively recent period of the world's
history that reading has been conceded a semblance of. the importance it merits, and even now the percentage of readers is negligible.
Reverting only a few years we find popular sentiment condemning
books as useless and harmful, and in some cases actually regarding
them with suspicion. This was an age of practical people—prac
- tical from necessity—who thought only in terms of ploughs and
_ daily bread, and attached no significance whatsoever, to the world
of abstract entities. For them the only real and logical source
of knowledge was in the interpretation, through experience, of
concrete realities.
. But with the advent of the nineteenth century, science came to
the fore, and in coincidence with this civilization has progressed by
leaps and bounds. Birth was given to countless devices which
saved labor, money and time. Time saving machines were the
most vital inventions, for they were instrumental in remedying
conditions so that a dearth of leisure did not restrict the later,
as it had the earlier generations. Man was now at liberty to plan
i. his work systematically, to indrease the scope of his interests, and
et... learn something about the macr-sosm of which he formed an
a F integral, and yet so small a part. With the full use of his faculties

pe

   

man immediately began to grope about his darkened world, search
ing for gleams of intellectual light. Ultimately his curiosity could

be satiated through but one agency—books. And _ logically so.

-. Enlightened individuals soon tired of imparting their knowledge

- orally and hit upon the happy plan of amassing it in book form.

The idea “caught” and ever since people with over burdened encep
halons have been shifting their supet. ‘vious load into books. Thus

_books have become the crystallized. axpression of the thoughts,

emotions and knowledge, both of past and present generations.

Nor do they confine themselves to the past and present— many of

our books even presume a description of future events. Now since

there is no subject untouched in our literature, it would seem to

follow that the simplest and most direct method of obtaining an

education is by reading. A few people have actually adopted this

: theory and have been rewarded with a considerable degree of

be N ae attainment, but by far the larger proportion have sought the light
in a succession of dances, shows and necking parties.

Discrimination must be practicedin reading. Not all literature
is of a constructive or instructive nature. Very much of it is valueless and some is really harmful. Choice of companions is probably
not a more influential factor in the formation of character than is
choice of books. From evil companions we derive evil habits,

and from impure books, impure thoughts. The libraries of the

- world hold an innumerable assortment of books on a great diversity
of subjects, so that no matter what vocation a man chooses he
obtains the advantage of a tremendous impetus in the very begin
_ ning, because there is available to him the experience and knowledge
of all those of the past whose interests corresponded with his.
Books have been written on every theme, from every viewpoint,
and in nearly every language; surely then—‘reading maketh
a full man.”

 

pee lg BTS:
Tee Exams and Christmas Holidays
. = | Even the posting of examinations has failed to arouse a few

 
   
 
  
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
  

from the customary, mid-term lethargy. It is really astonishing
_ how calloused some students become after spending a few years in
College. Most of us work more or less consistently during the
first year; the second year we have no intention of being easily
aoe into working and Thanksgiving becomes our official
7 date for the beginning of the industrial campaign; in the third year
, many books are not dusted until examinations are posted, and in
hays the final year, well—’nuff sed! Fortunately, this current year a
wise and kindly Providence has seen fit to visit upon us an exSOEs. +7 ceedingly well-timed skit of show and even the seniors are beginning
_~—_s to’ realize that it won’t be long now. About the campus there are
- thst: unmistakable symptoms (unkept beards and darkly-circled eyes)
of last spasmodic efforts to fill those cranial voids with a number of
distinct (Heaven help the student if they aren't!) parcels of information, each valued at twenty-two dollars—the price increased

this year. We may add that these parcels are fully equi w!th

8 il Christmas seals—they seal our fate if the parcel ee ae
_ Christmas seems far removed and unreal,—viewed through a
_ maze of very busy days and very long nights. Will they never end!
Somehow we struggle through and it surely is a grand and glorious
ing to settle into a cushioned seat aboard the first train home.
m the moment we pass in our last paper let us forget that examexisted and make our holiday, a holiday in the true

 

 

mations ever

4 die.

es Jal
sa Nee 4
are

sek spear Te
etek ashen Vite, 7 Pe

: hh
1 7 1 qr a <3 ol 7 _ 1a a =
i," - SS ae
EN er ye Ie le eign bas
: = = & s aa!

  
 
 

  

 
  
    
  
     

of the word. Most of us will be fatigued both physically

  

nl

   

  

Dear Sir:—We, the Committee of|

Award, to whom has been given the

task of selecting what in our estimation

are the first and second best prose compositionsand the best tical contribution in each group of four issues of
the Dalhousie Gazette, protest against
the dishonest and insolent conduct of
a Dalhousie student who on the same
page of the same issue of the Dalhousie
Gazette contributed (1) a letter protesting against the harshness of editorial
action in an earlier instance of plagiarism (which editorial action was, we
@onsider, designedly lenient) and, (2)
an allegedly original composition, sub-mitted as, were all other contributions
to be considered as eligible for the award

/ARD STATES

  

of a prize, yet this article was a verbatim
copy of a well known story that has
long been printed in school readers.

It is none of our duties to serve as a
detective agency to secure proof of
originality in each item submitted to us.
It is our duty and our pleasure to assume
that Dalhousie students are both honest
and honourable. Let this trust be
violated and the whole structure falls
upon which any system of award for
literary merit in the contributions to
our excellent and well-traditioned Dalhousié Gazette rests. Unless honour
and truth have their habitation in the
minds of University men and women
they deserve no place within the walls
of the University.

James Nelson Gowanloch, Chairman
Horace E. Read
Arthur L. Murphy

 

Dear Mr. Editor;

To what length will people go- Ina
recent issue of the Gazette there appeared an article presumedly in defence of
plagiarism. Plagiarism! The very
word strikes dread into the heart of the
artist who naturally has a horror of
seeing the products- of his life work
mutilated by indiscriminating and ruthless pirates. And yet the writer has
undertaken the defence of this criminal
practice.

There is one gleam of hope. The
article is too illogical to be convincing.
Consider this gem of thought ‘‘Art is
the opposite of invention, for invention
inasmuch as it és invention, must be
insincere.’ What has this to do with
the subject of plagiarism- There may

2 some connection but the author has
omitted to mention it. And so throughout the whole article there are statements
which, though I do not question their
wisdom, hardly seem relevant. In
short; the article-seems to have been
written in the hop> that the reader
might be impressed with the lofty ideas
of the author, and forget the real issue
at stake.

As far as one can gather from this
somewhat effusive article, the chief
argument for plagiarism is that it shows
appreciation of art. This is partially
true since a worthless piece of work is
not apt to receive the compliment of
being plagiarized. But is it appreciation to take the product of another
man's work and twist it about to suit
your own pleasure- If the work is
art surely it should be left. untouched;
but the writer says ‘‘Real artists would
be glad to find that some minor writer
has so thrilled to their work that he
borrows their ideas and expressions,
thus showing that his taste is worthy
of an artist.”

The author presents another argument in such a touching and_ effectyve
manner that it should be. ‘quoted.
Here it is: ‘In my opinion that name
‘pirate’ is rather too strong to apply to
a writer who is still struggling to find

his real self, and in the meantime,
borrows from others.”’ From this the
reader is to infer that the young aspirant for literary renown should wait for
inspiration before attempting to write
forghimself and in the meanwhile should
borrow from the works of others.
Is this an argument? Can anyone
write without attempting work
for himself? Surely this is a new
method of learning to write.

In short the only charitable view
that can be taken of the whole article
is that the writer does not know what the
word plagiarism means. Certain expressions the writer uses would indicate this, and, if it is true, let us as
readers be lenient.

—Catherine O. Hebb

—_—_—_— >
Edttor Gazette.
Dear Mr. Editor:—You asked last

week for suggestions for a name for
the Year Book so here are a few for the
committee to throw out if they don’t
like it,

Why not “The Tiger” for our Year
Book? Dal is known for her rugbyists
under that name from coast to coast,
and her football seems to be her outstanding sport. A tough looking beast
or at least his head, on the cover of the
Year Book, in Dal colors, wouldn't be
a bad idea now, would it?

Now that might be discarded or
improved. Archie MacMechan’s “Our
Little College by the Sea’’, where we
have established the world’s second
School of Fisheries, suggests perhaps
something in the line of Bluenose or
Maritime. Calling it the ‘Maritime
Tiger’, or corrupt it to the “Merrytime Tiger’’ if you want to, since it is
the official record of our college year,
might be worked around some way.

Yours for suggestions,

ARTS & SCIENCE

 

WITH OUR BARDS

 

THE REFLECTIONS OF
M. M. MIRZAH

 

Mirzah—manly
Went from Bagdat
Up from many
Domed Bagdat

Up from fabled
Faeried Bagdat
To the mountain
O’er the city

To the grassy
Topped mountain
Where he prayed.

II

Mirzah,—thinking,—
Siezed on by
Melancholy, —
Wondered does the
Manly mortal
Bosom, heaving,

Day and night toGether,— think at
This is vermin

Whom he, trusting
Calls his brother.

Till his “brother”
*Turns upon him,
Tricks him; taunts him;
Mocking—flaunts him
As a fool to

All the worldly
Lice.... Then kills him...

f not kills him
hen he flays him

With the horny
Tongue of scandal
Till the now poor,
Broken remnant

Who had trusted

In a creature,

In a lizard,

Hides his face.

t FEE

But Mirzah

Still reflecting

Sees a more

Emphatic vision :
Sees a better

Side to living

Sees a paradise

That calleth

To the men who,

All their lives, have
Lived a saintly,

Pure existence.

Or to men who,

After all, have

Done the right thing
By their fellows;
Have grasped Beauty
By the forelock,
Bade her show them
Long lost wonders
Bade her teach them
Ancient learnings......
And retained her

For their slave.

IV

And so Mirzah
Left the mountain,
Left the grassy,
Mystic mountain,
With a thirst for
History 20
Latin I and
Poli. Science
Came to honored
Old Dalhousie
To Dalhousie
Turned his footsteps,
And he, here, on
Every Friday
Hopes to give to you
His thoughts.

. s.. ei e

—M. M. Mirzah.
a

MOONLIGHT

 

Moonlight, how it all comes back to
haunt me!

Moonlight in the meshes of her hair,

Moonlight wrapt about her like a garment.

Silver, magic, moonlight everywhere!

A dream I think it was, so fair, so

fleeting,
Moonlight through a sudden blur of
tears:
© Dear Heart, thy golden, golden,
laughter
Echoeing down the garden, down the
years.

—F. M. R.

 

 

——

and mentally and the brief respite will be a very welcome onei

Some extra sleep will certainly not be amiss.

We predict a par
ticularly joyous holiday for everybody this year, and a still better

one for the fortunate few who began at the beginning. .
The Gazette takes this opportunity of thanking all who in any

way contributed to its success during the present term and wishes

 
  

that this may be the best Christmas yet—for everybody.

G, A. B.

a Se

We have heard that two little fres!ettes, not hitherto so inclined, have
lately started going to morning prayers.
Far be it from us to suggest that their
intentions in going to the library were
anything less noble.

x * #

Poor little Fido has been put in pound
at last. And to think he used to sleep
on Muriel’s pillor! Muriel will miss
him so much. She never went anywhere, even into dinner, without Fido.

It has been suggested that a life
insurance agent ought to pay a visit at
once to Miss Barbara Barnhill, who is
in the habit of falling asleep at the most
inopportune moments.

Great excitement was aroused lately
at the Hall, when it was announced that
the professors had entered into a contest to see who could do the most
plucking in the Christmas exams.
The general opinion ‘seems to be in
favor of Professor MacOdrum.

Lost, strayed, or stolen; a young man;
last seen in the vicinity of the ground
floor wing. Encountered by a stately
senior, he was warned that he shouldn't
be there, and on inquiring, he disclosed
the fact that he had made his entrance
through the cellar door. He confessed
that it was his first visit to the Hall,
and that he was somewhat confused.
He implored to be shown the way out.

Abstineto a fabis! (Abstain from
beans.)—new motto for Shirreff Hall.
—A Saturday motto!»

x %

The great question on the B-floor is
what ought to be done*to a person who
wakes you up at 2 a. m. to tell you that
it’s time you went to sleep.

We wish to thank the Bell Telephone
Company for placing booths in the Hall.
They provide an admirable refuge when
professors of English step unexpectedly
out of the elevator.

x & *€

Mary Morse, who was injured a few
weeks ago, has returned to her home in
Bathurst, N. B. We all hope that she
will soon be fully recovered and able
to be back again at the Hall,

HASH

The silence of tragedy brooded over
the Great Hall. Thereavas a breathless
fear even in the gray fog that clung to
its stone towers. Footsteps sounded
too loud in its stone flagged corridors
and voices rang with sullen resonance
along the heavy rafters:

For days now to the number of six
this horror had comesto their meals
even and sat like a death's head at the
table. The people had:become holloweyed and thin-fingered, They no longer
walked with the pride of former years,
but crept along, ashamed that this had
come to them.

Today they had to face this suspense

again. Huddled together the People
of this Kingdom whispered and wondered if “It”? would. come. Some

SONNET

JOAN OF ARC AT TIME OF THE
VISITATION OF THE ANGEL
WHO BIDS HER SAVE FRANCE

 

Quite near my house nestling beneath
the hill

Thy chapel stands and there within
_thy shrine,

Which serves as haven still once thine,
now mine,

I come to thee my quivering heart to still

Ane learn from thee what is thy holy
will.

That voice which calls to me—Hark!
tis divine,

That melody of angels which are thine,

To me more sweet than draught from

__ yonder rill,
Still ale [ gaze with all enraptured
138

One voice far sweeter, clearer than the

rest

Is to my ear addrest; and now I hear,

It seems to me, thine own sweet voice

W be bids my heart rejoice, my mission

0,
To save my people, die‘and be with thee.

—E. A. B.

} W iil THE LIFE OF A LITTLE COLLEGE >
EMPHATIC OPINION : {iI

3 Teh, 1928

i]

7
7
it

2 in
:
i

The Gazette sincerely extends
to all its friends—to the very
welcome exc es, to the jury
of Award, to the contributors,
to the readers and to the advertiers a very merry Christmas and
as Happy New Year.

HILLERS

Etiquette note: The latest and most
approved method of asking your lady
friend for a dance is this: ‘Say kid,
lend me your form for a twist.”

For the Christmas holidays Pine
Hillers. will{be scattered far and wide.
Boston, New York, Newfoundland an:
Montreal are only a few of the places
where carefree students will ‘drown
their sorrows in the flowin’ bowl’.

Ask A—. Cr—y. if it is a serious
offence to take hom. lab books.

Do nurses neck? Ask the young
doctors who were at the dance at the
V. G. this week.

x * *

We regret very much that George
Whiteley, an industrious worker of the
Gazette staff has been ill for some time.
George is President of the Biology Club
and was to preside at the recent Biology
Banquet but as fate would have it he was
taken sick just ten hours too early.
On Tuesday George resumed his classes
but on Wednesday was unfortunately
compelled to be up again.

HOWLERS

Prof.; I'm going to set an easy exam.
Student (speaking Latin): Ayeh!
Donos ferentes Danaos terreo!
* ©

MODERN SIMPLIGITY

She: Darling.... 1 love you. '

He: Yes! the others foo!

She: But dear I love you most.

He: Of all that other host?

She: I'll have host and you—agree?
He: Then dear you cant have me,

SEQUEL
Adieu—Con amore.
HOPE—
Auf wiedersehn.
ROMANCE—
They lived happily ever after.

Thoughts of a Latin scholar in exam.:
Aliquid facerem ut hoc ne facerem,
(1 would do anything not to do this.)

* ¢€

(From someone, somewhere, sometime).

Everything wise has already been
thought out, one can only try and
think it out once more. Seems to me
the only time we are really original ts ia
our spelling.

ae LS eae eee
of them suggested fleeing this térror
but in all the Great Hall the clink of:
gold had been unheard fa long or time.

At last the brazen bell clanged its
summons. The oppressed looked*-at
one another, then with lagging steps
betook themselves to the Great Room
of the marble stairway. All were
gathered. The Great Lord- motioned
them to the couches.

Soon, soon they would know! The
servants entered with the high piled
trays of food. The faces of the people
became gray and their hands trembled—
“It’’ had come again— Hash!

The Mitre Writes

“ Dalhousie Gaseite"’,
Halifax, N. S.

The Gazette is very welcome and
one of the best papers on our exchange
list. We admire the style in which
it is edited and its well-balanced order.
That it embraces many activities and
organizations is shown in the interesting accounts of the social events of
the University. The literary articles
are particularly good, but the addition
of poetry would improve the paper
greatly. We enjoyed the account of
Bliss Carman’s visit to your University,
and also the section entitled ‘‘The Life
of a Little College”. Weare inte
to know that the University indulges
in sports to a large extent. We would
like to keep in touch with you through

your paper.
The Metre,
Bishop's Lennoxville

FOR GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT,
Basketball Supplies,

Badminton

Outfits,

Dal. Sport Sweaters,

In tact for anything you may need for
your favorite recreation,

VISIT CUR SPORTING GOODS DEPT.

 

Also A Complete Musical Service

456-460 BARRINGTON ST. 
HALIFAX, N. S,

 
 

 
   
 
 
  
   

 

. bn
¥
i

fr can manage to remember.

‘Heeger ae last evening we a

he

a

 
 
 
 
   

 

és

=<, hal
i

a

&

* ’ x F ; ; - .
ee fz oe = a nd F re Se pe ea |
(grids Sag ha
< t hee bet eet “* a ee 4
a oa a se c ¢ ole he i" ra H me , .
‘_ i ci rn i *

from Shirreff Hall. Doesn't

*rof. told us not to read, and a
ver flask.—(We don’t want Hash.)
‘@ want a few cars like Pine Hill has.

sf (oe better 4 imes—

: < Dear Mr. Saunter unter Claws -—Can you

   
   
  
  

None of the
key-players, nor writers
i expense of the up-keep
ks ae don’t leave any.

cky “MacKinnon wants an’ up
‘to-date constitution for the students

THE MEAN AND THE EXTREME

we read a chapter of

— rs ago
De years ago,» on Averages. It
spas: things. For example
the average goes to Sunday
School 2* i inc in his life, and the
average Canadian. lives in Red Deer,
Saskatchewan. There are other in
calculations but these eral

e

method however is not as easily for
Pate | sh egpeaa the facts and it suggested

ene thet with reference to
. Therefore, it having els
ee unto wisdom and considered
sthe students of Dalhousie not individ‘ually in their oddities and eccentricities

their cleverness and their stupidi but
srather:in- the composite effect. very:
nd

where we looked for the mean.
ie meanness we found amounted to

  
  
   

re average student is 5 ft. 6.016
. ae verage student weighs 137.072

t “average student has sandy hair.
She average. student has buff colored

: average prulent _ 72.7

 

   
 

tr.
} ae. student thinks it easy to

get through any course but his own.

The average student thinks a Professor of Philosophy is a fool.
The average student is a fool himself.
The. oat student takes Math,.

The average student goes to Sodales
See cage utucent te dumb
ea ent is dum
The av age student thinks the
Gazette is a failure.
The average student makes it so.

‘The ‘ave student thinks that
Dalhousie is e greatest University on
the continent.

The average student doesn’t know
of any other University.

The average student thinks that
Dalhousie professors are famous all
over the world.

One of them might become famous—
if pe eeu murder a the others.

e average student pays two class
fees, the first and the fast. He pa
the first because he is green and the
last he is sentimental.

average pon goes to the
movies 97 times per

The average event goes to church

os
e average student has 17 votes per
yeThe average student casts 21 votes
verre the success of some
‘eandida

tes.
The average student—d his
Saas pecomnes) Scqasinted’ wi 1-10
of a professor

The average student is mifertanate.

But here we saw the parting of the
ways.
gas of the males with the virtues of the
females, nor the folly of the females
with the wisdom of the males. So we
began to differentiate. The following
is a calculation of inanities specifically
Masculine.

xt necareraae atndent has 3. 712 boardhe average st student uses .a phone

967 times per

The average student puts a small cent

ee ee student calls Shirreff
Hall 958 times per

eee 3167 of
aes ea re

ae

 

age, student has 3, necking
week.

he a hapa te pre nig
a2. — ; seer 255 a Senne ve

se ) 4
he et Stes SoS wy
ae ae Ee a ®

Sey

 
   

 

  

Sa “ sea: ¢ +

tor Gazette: We want ae
e with a zeal;

nS L 3
2 es wa fs ke O. T, C.; we — want: an

lulb;--we want a college
CIRCUS (how about it boys?); we want
faeaity sen nts cies es ae
ip ware perrrs y and theatre[aur right after Xmas; we want Pineoo Shirreff Hall to have a combined smoker; we want our Alumni and
Alumnae to be active always; we
want to have college movies; we want
happy thoughts-for everybody; we want
everybody to boost everything that
deserves g; we want to give
everybody our best wishes; we want a
boys residence. (you can read the
Gazette if you want to know what
we're doing.)

(Signed)
WE WEE.

Dear Old Sandy:

We want a bigger and better Home
for all the boys of this old college.
How about it? And how about a
change of diet for the dear girls at the

That’s all. A Happy New Year.

Sir aici Hiller

      

The average student fails in 2 exams

per term. In these subjects he is
invariably confident he ‘‘had it cold.”

The average student has 1-10 of a
dress suit.

He wears this 7 times a year while
the owner of the 9-10 stays home.

The average student wonders how all
the other fellows can keep from loving
his girl.

Most of them manage it just the
same.

The average student of 10 years ago
is now a professor.

And now for the Ladies. We interviewed Miss Lowe at Shirreff Hall and
obtained important data, from which
by careful anetynis we discovered the
following.

The average co-ed wears 7 oz. of
clothes: 3 oz. of sill, 3.0z. of mercerized
cotton, and tozvof elastic.

The average co-ed has read.7 books
in her life. Of these 6.37 have been
sentimental love stories.

The average co-ed uses 3.427 bushels
of powdered starch per year. Chiefly
on her nose.

The average co-ed take size 2.98
shoes. She manages this by putting
oversized feet in undersized shoes.

The average co-ed owns .016 of a
fur coat. Her main desire is to acquire
the other percentage.

The average co-ed gets a “permanent”
wave once every six weeks,

She saves for this by using borrowed
text books and not contributing to the
giving collection’ in church.

The average co-ed darns 1* one hole
in her stockings every six months.

The average co-ed has two ambitions:
one to receive three invitations to every
important dance, the other to have

people think she had five.

ee The average co-ed eats $123.47 worth
of fancy ice-cream in the college year.

She pays*for 50 cents worth.

The average co-ed has one text book
and three hats for the season.

The average co-ed is given 73.957
rides in an au r year.

She walks baie from .00001.

The ayerage co-ed spends 2* two
and a half hours in the library per year.

During 2 hours and 29 minutes of
this she is waiting for a date. She
never sits there at all unless she has
short skirts and full fashioned hose.
Thus she advertises the knee plus ulira
of feminine charm.

The average co-ed buys the average
barbers Ford.

The average co-ed is athletic; she
loves athletic attire.

The average co-ed is sorry there are
no use clubs in Halifax.

he does well, considering her handica

ccording to the Pychology department the average co-ed dreams of fire
once @ month.

The average co-ed has visible means
of support. Often they are crooked.

The average co-ed takes a book out
of the library and lends it to all Shirreff

It is not right to compute the] ;y,1),

The janitor we understand brings: it
back in the summer.

The average co-ed has a vocabulary
of 121 words. 76 of these are not in the
dictionary.

The co-ed is good oe uently.

oe average co-ed has a club bag
full of clothes and two trunks full of
cosmetics.

The average coved can endure more
cold than an Arctic explorer. With the
acquisition of a fur coat however, a
marked change appears and she finds
it necessary to on the coat in a
class room with a temperature of 75
aegreen: Such is Nature.

lFYou Want To SEE Wet.

SEE WALLACE

GPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y. M. A. C. BLDG, HALIFAX, N. 5.

     
     

> te
a | 4 “e.
ae ‘

— “Pry & my

SOCIOLOGY CLUB

' ~? » Jt - ‘ s< _* a

ee Ny) > ee ee & aps

+ SESS et Bee Bed OE PSR SY,
— on 
Al ALHOUSIE ¢ dei

“Ae

 

(yee

e False’
Alarm

NOT A MAN EVERY TIME

Everything was quiet. The mice
slept between the walls, No water
ran from the taps. Slippered feet stole
down the long corridors like dreams

 

eins yers. There
last. Too late for leocins he ast
number was played.

 

      
    
        

  

   

Why all the formality shown on through the nigh aig
ght. The Sorority waited
; pa Bight? The Cyn ceased tO) for something to bépper—just anyrym and became - silent thing! Suddenly Janet burst into Alice's

 
     
  
 
 

theatre pit. Dalhousians felt the hack

  

room,

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  
     
 

of dress suits and _ evening AT ; i
They were afraid and had to fae a look ee Reaver = Boke) Wet UBE" she
at their neighbors to be sure they t) Sleepily: Alice rose fous her Uahas

slipped into the “wrong pew. Wel couch. - All the Old Maids-straightened
don't want pis society of fun to. befome their rheumatic backs and rpenared
a society of seriousness. This incident} fo, the worst.
should establish the fact that we need,| = “Hurry! Hurry! There’s a man down
besides Glee Club, a Dramati Club stairs, and he’s asking for you. Gosh!
where everyone can be formal if they} 1] gidn’t know how to keep him there so
wish and only formal and serious drama | { locked the Reception room door.
would be shown. _ The windows- Oh, he won't get ou’
i Enough of music, let us to drama. | ¢hat way because Miss Lowe nailet’

Scrooge” was, on the whole, well} them down before she went to Windsor!d
ee Some new talent was brou-| The mention of MAN was enough.
8 ht forward in the persons of i Al was dressed quicker than Miss Lowe

raser twins. These two very a ike could chase a Freshette from an alcove.
people played their parts with a ee Moments, minutes and hours slipped
innocence which caught the sym by, still the Old Maids waited. Surely
of the audience. Kelly as usual, did Al would bring home the bacon, or at
his dramatics well. Everyone played| least the ring. Slowly the door opened
up to their parts and in general kept the | and the Wanderer returned home.

ple’s eyes on the stage. The li E For a breathless moment= all eyes

ing effects were not very good, were turned on her. Then the Sorority,
nothing else could be expected. It a as if it were one girl, sighed,
a difficult play to stage and Graham]  A¢ [ast Ede said, ‘Any luck~""
Allen deserves congratulation for pre-t Al's voice was barely audible as she
senting it as ably as he did. The old| answered,
fault of not speaking loud enough was “No! Just another false alarm!"
still present. ;

Jean Fraser and Minnie Black deMi hted the ears of the Campus folk.

e Choral Club broadcasted with their
ald leasing style.

This Glee Club show was certainly
more successful than the last one, but— | 2a
there is a happy medium in all things.

ee

  
  

   
 
 
   
 
 

    
  
  

   
  
 
   

  
 
 

       
 
       
       
     
     
   
   

  
  

   
  
 

  

          
         
     
       
       
       
     
 

 

    
   
    

COUNCIL MEET

(Continued from page 1)

In recognition of the showing made
by the Intermediate football team this
Season the sum of $45 was granted to
defray the expense of a banquet to be
tendered them immediately after Xmas.

The hockey team was given a provisional grant of $150.00 to defray any
expenses which might be necessary
before Xmas.

The final item of business dealt with
was that regarding the National Federation of Students. The. « President
outlined the work of that organization
and enumerated the agenda which will
be taken up at the annual conference
to be held at Queen's University this
Christmas vacation.

Nominations were
the appointing of a- representative,
and resulted in the appointment of
Dr. MacKenzie with Mr. MacCunn as

    
    

 

         
 

ACTIVE

(Continued from page 1)

a research be undertaken to bring this
about?”

People live in a world of institutions,
the family, reading, type of entertainment ete., all bringing us into institutional contact: To judge the normality
or subnormality of a person, we must
compare them with norms or standards.
In order to find what norms of institution to apply, we have to take normal
peop’, iving normal lives in normal

es and normal institutions and

 
 

 

       
     
        
    
        

then called for

       
 
     
       
 
        
   
 

doing normal things, and find out] alternative representative in case
howthey, differ. In observing types}the Dr. couldn’t attend.- After the
of — behaviour problems occur, as appointme nt of a committee to interfor’ instance, ‘Within what range] View the senate with the view of getting

   

the Xmas holidays extended the meeting adjourned.

 
 

may a child be considered subnormal
or normal? Is it normal for a child
to lie between the ages of 8 and _9?
for him to steal at about the age of 10?
When a pupil is afraid of the teacher,
is the teacher or the pupil to blame?
Is corporal punishment effective? Does
the Reform school pay? " All these
questions, and others, can be answered
only in terms of norms.

       

MacDONALD @
FORSYTHE

College Mens’ Overcoats
$15. to $30.

    
     
          
 
       
 

 

      
 

In conclusion Dr. MacPhee said 119 Gottingen St. - Ph
that Sociology, Psychology and Political " oki visu
Science were inclined to be thought of |} ————————— ~ |x
as independent, but that Mental WINNERS FROM THE|#
Hygiene was the meeting ground for START

 
 

 

    
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
 

them all.

Dear Mr. Editor: '

There seems to be a misunderstanding
among the students that only those
registered for a class in Sociology can be
members of the club. This is most
decidedly not so! The meetings are
held under the auspices of the Sociology
Club and all members of the University
are invited.

Watch the notice board for the next
meeting and come along.

MILDRED SAMPSON,
Secretary.

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment, that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS., CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

Gauvin & Gentzel

Photographers
&

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

For Young People as
well as older folk

      
 

Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you
Best Sodas

Best Confectionery
Best Meals

The Green Lantern

        
       
      
  
    
  
   
 
  

 
  
 

Visit Our Accessory
Shop

Our New Department
on the Ground

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

    
   

     
   
 

 
   
  
  

  

Floor. That's the service you get
eee eile free when you send YOUR
JENSEN & MILLS Laundry to Ungar’s.
cO., LIMITED
Spring Garden Road VALETERIA

   
   

A new pressing Service:
Yo Suit or Overcoat
Ste@™ *aned and Piessed, for \ » or 4 Ti-kets
for $2.00.

    
     
 

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS

Small Musical Instru
      
 

ments and Victor Records |
We invite you to join our

NECKTIES cleaned 1I!c.

UNGAR’S

oe St., Halifax, N.S.
Sack 4 Har. 127

DYEING
PRESSING

  
  

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co,

93 Barrington St. Halifax

  
     
     

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

        

amis
ra he
Sk Nee
“ys eS
ww Aes
ee

a Ts,
é mut

| See ¥

‘
re jy te ae ‘
iW ag wot tat atch
wT tay Cem ih ah

. ia, ; ; . hb. ce
Se ee Re ee See fF eS :
Seren Pet eee Fee wi Bae ce =e
os ate i=* ; “~. *
a+ =

Never Min

SAVE TH

NOTIKEFCE!
SPECIAL. DISCOUNT
STUDENTS

SUITS & OVERCOATS
CONDONS

MEN 
TO

 

 

Globe Laundry itd |

50 Buckingham Street

 

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres
C. W. SPR, MOU lL, Pres.

 

The Caters Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

—— >

 HUBLEY’s | S

DRY CLEANING, DYING
AND PRESSING

VALET
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT

GIVEN TO DALMOUSIE
STUDENTS

 

Tickets - $2.00.
SZ Sackville Street,

Less Biscount
Phene $. ics

Che
Halifax Chronicle

AND
Che
Walifax Daily Star

NEWSY!
ACCURATE!
DEPENDABLE!

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel .or sa
More than two, 2” centsextra,

Christinag
Greetiiigs

Greetings for everpone
Consentionat— Bumorous
Spimpathetic—Bypercial Cards
for relatibes— Sweethearts
cards. for ote and all

Special Greetings from
Halifax including Hbhirreff
Wall cards

| Fraternity & Society Greet
ings a Specialty
Ask for samples ahd quotations |

FARRELL’S

New Store
446 Barrington Street

¥ | al a. 2 :
a teeieeeete near mn gee Merron ee ee nat pens ~

ee
7

- “SMOKE A —

E“POKER HANDS

— >
'

   

YELLOW CAB|

     
  
 

 
  
    
   
  

   
 
   
  
  
   

oP

i

    
 
 

dt

 

 

  
 
       
      
   
   
  
  
 

il} t Fi] OWE LY if wrth
THE Orka OF
| Cut Flowers & Potted Plants

| We

ours

make up Funeral Designs

 

1 |
|
:

also Weditic Bouquets. We also

do Table Decorating. We are the
| only members of the T. F, D, 4
Florists We can wire Flowers -\
| to all parts of the world

Che Roseryp

§ BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

 
 

 

A | MACLEOD, BALCOM
“|
———————

   
    
  
    
  
   
  
  

LIMITED

34 Morris Street

174 Spring Garden Rd

203 Youngs Street
| Cor. Ouitipool Road
and Oxford Street

and Bedford

ms

ell

 

 

George E Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco

 

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description |

SO
ete a ee

—Also—
Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
| Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX, - N.-S.

    
    

 

   
   

   

    
 

y : ;
the men thal wear them’’

** Ask

    

Your Class-Mates Are Wearing

Roxy’s Clothes

WHY NOT YOU?

  

   
  

 

 
 
 
   
 

    

154 Granville

street

  

 

 
     

sy ; .
Ll 4ieé Out ofr (fe Way,

ulud Pays ta

    
   

 

  
   
   
  

 
   
 
 
   

  
 
 
 
 

LORD NELSON FE
25 SPRING GARDEN RD,
CENTRAL—The ne: arest Barber ee to the College:
SERVICE— Always experienced
barbers at your service,

Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies at

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring G: arden Road

 
 
 

     
   
 
 
 

  
 
  
  
 

    
 
   
  
  
  
  

 
    

OurHigh Quality Standard
' _
makes our Low Price
a nae th

Douhly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

p24.

MADE TO-MEASURE
Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENTS' TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts 
 
    
  

  

     
  
    
   
  
    

 

  
  
   
 
  
  
  

 

  
  
   
  
 
wae 1:12, Dentistry 11; Pine Hill

results”

a a “
> |
r , c
3 e a \ . - eo -@ - A
7 .
‘2 a
. ;

ee ee 7
i Ce ' iL it ae a a *
er Pind: - - é le hy a y ‘ eas fe
eae Talaatr se gigi ae arm Fao 2

oes tes
aaa on
Ss a" rs

ad ke

age 9

are

ae 2

i me

from

15-4.

e game endin

| was the best played

during the wh chedule, both teams
ealizing that a win meant the champ
Lost

{| the subject.

2
3
6

Medicine 51, Kings 6; Pine re no
Oo.
be default from Engineers, were the
of the inter-faculty softball
over the week end. Medicine
their schedule, and clinched
Section A of the league, while the
other games had no bearing on the
standing. On Wednesday night Arts
easily turned back Pine Hill No. 2
y 22 to 2 and Pine Hill No. 1 swamped

=s ings 33 to 2.

_ Owing the the approach of exams the
winners of the two sections will not
play off for the championship until
- after Christmas. Medicine will represent A section, while either Commerce or Arts are expected to win B
secti Ne

The standing after the games last
week:

A SECTION

Lost
0
1
1
2
3

0

>) Commerce,.......
tS Pine Hill No. 2 2
ns UN AVEGMIEOT cs sts ticles cases 0 1

Romance of

- Underworld is

ee eee Highly Praised

No picture play has come to town

by such laudatory comments

as “Romance of the Underworld,”’ a

- Fox Film directed by Irving Cum- mings, which has its premiere locally
today at the Orpheus Theatre.

‘The life of the shady side of a great
city is graphically pictured by Irving
Cummings in ‘‘Romance of the Underworld,” Fox feature film with Mary
Astor, Robert Elliott, Ben Bard, John
Boles and a cast of screen favorites in
the princi roles. The picture has

- aroused wide discussion in reviews by
its realistic revelations of speakeasies
and the attendant evils. It is coming
to the pee Theatre next week.

Mary or, Robert Elliott and Ben
Bard are the featured players in this
epic of the underworld with Oscar
Apiel and Helen Lynch in other prominent roles.

“Romance of the Underworld” will
be shown with the usual excellent
accompanying features.

& Menjou Doffs

Dress Suit

Adolphe Menjou, star of “His Tiger
Lady” which will be shown at the
Casino theatre next week has forsaken
his far-famed dress suit and silk hat
again. His akg eas from _ his
customary garb was in “A Night of
Mystery” which played here recently

tos a en: success.
In his latest starring vehicle, Men
Qos x.

a ! [ae ae a: =
Pepe ee 8s ty

ay Z 1 ‘i

6 Sa
¥

<i

»

\

- tif x
i Jail r at
a, has ae i a
ONE. a eg +e a cee vi. ¥ .- a
f a + - ‘
fa se ho ily : ot rid
= 7 Ws P

eae ee:

Feed Ty
ae,
-.

and heated opinions which
1ave been expressed regarding the
letter, which appeared in the Gazette
last week, over my signature, I beg
permission to make clear, for once and
all, the stand I am taking on this very
important question.
vents, subsequent and consequent
to the publication of that letter, have
cleared the atmosphere a bit and have
convinced me more than ever that a
change, in the method now employed
in selecting the Basketball team, is
necessary. A telephone conversation
with Mr. George MacIntosh, Manager
of the Basketball team, may have
misled him as to my real opinions on
I trust this etver will
make them clear because, as they are
the opinions of many other students,
any misunderstanding may affect the
ultimate solution of the question in a
way incompatible to honest opinions
that deserve respect. The main purport of the letter was to raise the
question re the manner in which teams
should be selected. I regret that it
could not be raised in a manner more
compatible to those so vitally concerned. It had to come up sometime
and now that it has been raised, I
sincerely hope that it will be answered,
not by vague and inchoate attacks
upon those who are disatisfied and want
a change, but by the attempt at least
for a change in the existing conditions.
Nothing short of that can do any possible good.

I find that disatisfaction exists
regarding the system of training the
team, as well as re the system employed
in choosing it. Not that the candidates do not get a fair shot to show
their form but that, experienced or
inexperienced, they get little or no
systematic training as systematic training is practised by professional coaches.
I find too that Mr. Sterling is su
to be the coach of the Basketball team.
Yet Mr. Sterling has no real say when
it comes to selecting the team. If you
don’t believe this go ask Mr. Sterling,
as I did, and settle this point for yourself. There must be a reason for all
this. There is. It did not take me
very long to find out that the management of the team does not regard Mr.
Sterling as the right man for the position
of coach. His duties elsewhere are
constantly interfering with Whose duties which he exercises as coach. Mr.
Sterling is the T. Instructor at
Dalhousie. Coaching with him is merely a side line.. He is not held in the
light that a coach should be held in
at all. No wonder there is dissatisfaction.

If the management of the Basketball
team cannot see Mr. Sterling as coach
then why don't the people concerned
show a little candour. Why couldn't
Mr. Sterling be told that there is need
for a professional coach for the Basketball. I’m positive that he’d be willing
to step aside for the right man. Why
all the secrecy for one’s honest opinions.
Is Mr. Sterling being used for a blind?
Has there been an honest attempt to
get-a professional coach by those who
have the power? Believe me I’m
skeptical.

The present situation demands a
remedy. That a change in this system
system should take place is imperative,
it needs to be immediate. Until it is
done and not until then will candidates
for the team, both successful and unsuccessful, feel assured that the players
have been chosen on their merits.

I have been informed, among other
things, that several candidates for the
team, who belong to a frat, have anneunced their intention of resigning.
Because; they reason (mea culpa),
that if they make the team many will
think that they got on through drag
or pull. Their reasoning isn’t half bad.
It's even logical. It’s what some
poe would have thought anyway.

refer of course to men concerning
whom there can be some legitimate
doubt. If these plavers still contemplate resigning then I advise them to
think for a moment, and then to see
that the obvious and sensible way out
for them, is to exercise what influence
they command, to have a change made
in the system. Accent on the system.
Once this is done there will be no need
of this resigning or going on hunger
strike, or anything else. I wish the
manager of the Basketball team would
realise that these letters arenot meant
as unsavoury reflections on either his
integrity or ability. They merely advocate a change in a system under
which both his integrity and ability

MacINTOSH

Editor Dalhousie Gazette:—I am sorry
to ask you to print a letter of this
type, but I am writing it in the interest
of Dalhousie s and to clear the
many misapprehensions raised by Mr.

en in his letter which may, perchance, have had some effect on a few
susceptible minds.

The motive which prompted the
radical, libellous, and quite-uncalled
for outburst contained in last week's
issue over the signature of Mr. Whalen
is, in the opinion of many quite obscure.

When questioned by me on Saturday
last, Mr. Whalen stated that none of the
conditions, laid'down by him, existed at
present, but he thought that they might
arise at any time, and, in his earnest

uest for a Utopian Dalhousie he felt
the call to warn his fellow students of a
mythical catastrophe that might engulf
us at any time.

When asked to name any of the
thirty-five players who had turned out
to practice and who had not been on the
floor for at least ten minutes during the
practice hour, he said, as he had not
attended any of the practices he could
not do so.

When told by me that Mr. Sterling
was acting in the capacity of coach and
then asked whether or not that changed
the opinions expressed by him in his
absurd letter, he said, ‘Yes,’ ‘‘No”,
and ‘I don’t know,” laying equal stress
on all three committals.

The manager and captain of the
football team naturally took offense
at some of the remarks but were relieved to have Mr. Whalen assure them
that basketball was his theme and football merely offered a suitable lead for
his story. When talking to me, he
claimed, that his conveniently chameleon
like criticism treated of sport in general
and entreated me not to take offense at
any presumptious allusions to basketball.

How any apparently sane individual
could commit such an unwarranted
criticism in view of the almost inevitable
result it would produce, in the absence
of substantiating facts, it is difficult to
see.
At the present time, we are threatened
with the resignation of two players, who
in consequence of this letter, are placed
in the not-approved-by-Whalen category. The position of these men is quite
easily understood but their position on
th team will not be easily filled They
believe the student body to be conceding them a place on the team due
to friendly relations with the manager.

On Thursday last, Mr. Sterling was
given a list of the aspirants hy me and
told to select two teams. Does that
sound as if the manager was acting
partially—

Last season, I never placed a man on
the line-up without first consulting at
least two of the regulars (one of them
the Captain) and Mr. Sterling.

We are temporari'y without a Captain as Ab Smith was to have captained
the team this year, and as the captain
is chosen by the team we cannot appoint
another until the personell of the team
is known.

The average student after perusing
Mr. Whalen’s letter considers a Fraternity pin the only prerequisite to a
Basketball ““D”’.

Such is most certainly not the case
and I consider insinuations along that
line, utterly unfounded and a direct
reflection on the trust that has been
placed in me by the D. A. A. C.

Sincerely,
G. K. Macintosh,
Manager Basketball Team

oo
SOFT BALL

Commerce 9; Arts 8; Extra
Inning game.

Commerce vs Frosh Tonight

“Basketball Trip to upper
Canada Pratically Assured’’
Says manager.

A BARGAIN AT

$25.00
Chev. Touring
In good condition Charles Longley
PHONE

‘Atlantic Motor Sales

Dondonald Street

You Must

MeFi?
L ‘ite :

GIRL ATHLETE
GETS HER “D”

Jean Fraser, Maritime half mile
champion and one of the leading girl
athletes in Canada has been awarded
her “D"”, the first girl in the history
of Dalhousie to win such a honor.

Two years ago Miss [l’raser broke
Into the sport game and since then
has shown such a big improvement
that in the Maritime Ladies Meet held
in St. John during the summer she won
the half mile in record breaking time
and she was forced to take second
place in the century and the 220 only
beeause she chased Gertrude Phinney
to set new records.

In the famous CanadianTmeet held
here; the official women’s , Olympic
trials© Miss Fraser showed brilliant
form and although she finished in
second place her time was better than
the former world’s record. The winner
of the race went to Holland as a member
of the Canadian Olympic team.

MORE LETTERS

Editor Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:-—''The Life of a Little
College” has few attractions as a title
for our Year Book, and the “Tiger |
seems rather more suited for a purely
athletic publication, so may | suggest
a Mame originating from Howard Patten of the school of Pharmacy. Patten

roposed to call our Year Book ‘The
Paeit house’ After. considering °*‘The
Totem” for «B. C. and various ot!
names for other Universities
that ““The Lighthouse”’ would be a ve
happy name for the year f
“College by the Sea.”

Lei
think |
a
11,
Crit

’
book oO

Yours very truly,

E. M

Howse.

Dear Mr. Editor.

It has been brought to the attention
of the Council of Students by the heads
of various Student societies that the
malicious practice of misappropriating

|

signs is again being. practiced by sell
ent body.

In future students are asked to report
those responsible for the premature’
disappearance of these signs, whe
they will be dealt with by the Council.

Signed,
Geo. K.. Macintosh,

Secy.-T reas. Counct of Students.

Majestic Notes

All the. painstaking steps ‘taken in |

big Broadway ‘musical
shown in

Naney Carroli-Richard

producing a
comedy are
Cocktail,” the

Arlen co-featuring picture, which was ||

Paramount © studios,
Hollywood. This picture has been
booked for showing at the Majestic
theatre next Mon. Tues. and Wed.

The weary weeks of réhearsal, day
and night
and finally the opening night
depicted in. Ernest Vajda’s— st
Broadway from a backstage view-point.

Dorothy Arzner directed ‘“‘Manhattan Cocktail,” with a cast including,
in addition to Miss Carroll and. Arlen, Lilyan Tashman, Paul Lukas,
Danny O’Shea, Bert Woodruff and
Youcca Troubetzkoy.

CASINO

This Week
Thursday-Friday-Saturday

“THE
BUTTER & EGG MAN”

with
Jack Mulhall and Greta Nissen

filmed. at the

are

“J ;
ry Ut

Our Gang Comedy
“THE YELLOW CAMEO”
Next Week
Monday-Tuesday
ADOLPHE MENJOU
in
“His Tiger Lady”’

with
Evelyn Brent

 

Wednesday- Thursday
Lew Cody and Alleen Pringle

in
“BABY CYCLONE”

tHE SONG SHOP iro. |
for ANYTHING in

ail
1 |i
|

:
ishly acquisitive members of the Stud |

<&
eT

“Nianhattan |

drilling in dances: and songs |!

THIS WEEK-Thu-Fri-Sat.

“THE
BRANDED MAN”

Another Mystery Thriller
also

COMEDY — FABLES

NEXT WEEK-Mon-Tue-Wed. |

“ROMANCE OF THE

UNDERWORLD”

with
Mary Astor
Love and Adventure among

the Canyons of Broadway

FOX NEWS—COMEDY

WELL DRESSED

at a minimum cost !
(Your complete Fall outfit need only cost you $68.15)
Every Item bears the well known label

éatonia

Here is a complete list of each

| item and whatit costs—get your

Fall outfit now!

$5.00
2.50

Gatonia Hat
Shirt
Tie 1.00
Suit 25.00
Topcoat 25.00
Gloves 1.50
Handk’ef. .25
Underwear .90
Wool Socks .75
Shoes 5.00
Braces 245
Garters 50

———_ OF

Making a Total of $68.15

estic

MON-TUE-WED.

“MAN HATTEN
COCKTAIL”

A Sparkling Comedy-Drama
Richard Arlen
Nancy Carroll
_ Now Playing
GRETA CARBO

in
‘‘The Mysterious Lady”

Halifax Ladies’ College

and

Conservatory
~e ?
of Music
Upper and Lower School
Teachers’ Certificates in Art
Household Science
Muste
Tel. S 224

COLLEGE COLORS

We have a good supply of our
distinctive Dalhousiestationery
Neat size crest, die stamped in
yellow and black on high class
parchment paper, club size, with
envelopes stamped to match, suitable for ladies or gentlemen.

Sold in bulk only, buy any quan”
tity you require.

EATON

ke
Oi)
LIMITED
GARRICK
REPERTORY THEATRE
The Mae Edwards Players

“She Got What
She Wanted!”

A Mirthquake!

NOW PLAYING
“Self Defense”’

Suppose tomorrow were Christmas
a few short hours and one thousand and one things to do! Gifts
to buy—entertainments to” arrange. Then everyone would
wish they had done their Christmas shopping early. Remember
the early shopper gets the p'ck
of stocks and salespeople are
much more cheerful

HENRY B
BURKS & 80Ns
Diamond Merchanis HALIFAX

Christmas Cards

#Hend pour greetings on a
card of pour own creation—
something differe

The benefit of our experience is at
pour Disposal as.to Design and come
position

Ge also have a few
stock Designs

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street 4

attractibe

Now on Sale

 

Kacy = Jou pero role of an extra man of

oe the -s Bergere, Paris, whose street

wardrobe consists of an old, blue,|are likely to be reflected upon. The

_ shiny suit, which is ruined through a| way I see things no one stands to ben
i practical joke of his colleagues back | efit more by a change than the manager.

stage. He woos and wins a wealthy} Before closing | wish to say that my

woman after dr in his stage cos-| letter last week was not meant as a

__ tume, that of a maharajah, which he|criticism of the present methods em
_ wears while ‘acting’ in the follies. His ployed in the selecting of either the

act consists of sitting majestically atop | Football or Hockey teams. They have

nt the opening scene of the| their coaches and the manner in which

ch show. ; the Football fifteen was selected this

has the leading fem-| year left little to be desired. Due of

course to the presence of two capable
coaches, who with the manager, and
captain constituted a selection committee for the purpose of picking the
team. The same or pretty near the
same goes for the Hockey team. All
This is X i that remains to be done is the elevatin
1 With @ smile (if you could|of the Basketball to the same car
» I say to you, you are the| Once done there will be little need for
8, thoughtless, forgetful,| letters like the two I have written; and

) feet. incidentally, little need for future
you, send| “chronic grouches” to achieve dis
1440] tasteful campus notoriety and many

y .| bad friends, for an honest effort to

r it my effect a much needed change for the
I tell you never| better. At that my time may have
C a, With
remain

MUSIC
22 Spring Garden Rd.

“Chere Sy Hh faye’?
Have Rubbers | D Go The Ships

Twelve New

Sagas of the Sea
By
Archibald MacMechan

La a

Try
“LIFE-BUO\” Brand
The Arist-o-crat of
Rubber Footwear

STUDENTS

Text Books

AnlidealGiftforthe |
College Man

A Sweater in the Authentic College Colors

Priced at $8.00 and $10.00
Less Students disc. of 10%.

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

Note Books

a QNE ON THE EDITOR

on p one): Is X there?
: aa . Loose Leaf Books

aa,
wy _
“ Tuttles

Spring Garden Road
Barrington Street

t - %
; Ht L ‘

id

Stationery, Etc.

T. C. Allen & Co.

many thanks to the Editor, | 124 & 126 Granville Street

_____ Respectfully yours,

4 1 =< ate {

ea are od

rf 1% eet - ite P
wee

 
