  
 
    
    

session.

t

er than ever.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
  

 

Leaders of Mock(|

Parliament Issue
Statements

-~MacQUARRIE, KELLOWAY,

MacLEOD—PARTY LEADERS

Interest Runs High

The old Law School is again, reverberating with the voices of the members
who have come up to the Sessions.
Party feeling as you all know runs
higher than ever. The Meds in their
Anatomy Chambers on the third floor
heard the sounds of rejoicing as they
stood cutting the stiffs. Ah to be a
happy Lawyer, thought the Meds.

he legislation passed this year will
be of a telling nature. In view of the
set-back free-speech has received, a
reiteration of that long established
principle is to be asked.

Also the members will introduce
legislation regarding the Thirsty Studentia. In the lobbies one hears remarks and opinions on ‘‘more beer,
shorter lectures, longer curls, the dope

roblem, codification of International
aw, women and children, and National
Federation of Canadian University
Students.

The three leaders have issued statements which indicate that the constituents in particular and the Studentia
at large, may look forward to big doings
at least during the sessions.

MacQUARRIE—LIBERAL

The Liberals this year have every
hope for an outstanding successful
Augmented by members who
have had extensive training at home
and abroad, who have keen insight
into the conditions and fundamental
5 Serie of the fing, a who Eas a

tanding and sympathetic
broad ee th er ivaitvies of Tucan

‘ity the old party mil set about to in
nae into the house sane remedial
gislation.””
er: John MacQuarrie; Whip:
Charles Lamb; Platform Committee:
Alex McKinnon, Alex Macdonald, and

Jini Fay.

KELLOWAY—NATIONALIST

The Nationalist party stands for the
greatest good to the greatest number.
Tt is a party that will look after the
interests of the whole Dominion and
not merely separate parts thereof.
Legislation will be introduced, if our
Party is returned to power, that will,
from an economic standpoint, make
Canada the leading ‘‘nation’’ of the

world. Our party is bigger and strongWe offer to the electorate

men of great calibre—the best bridge
players, the greatest economist, and the
most famous reformers this Dominion
has ever produced. Truly a party
that does not play ‘party politics”
but composed of free thinking individuals who put country first and

party last.

MacLEOD—CONSERVATIVE

‘Leadership in the betterment of
economic, social and general conditions
is the aim and object of the Conservative party. For years our party has
been doing great work. We have
gained much; but in entering this
election we do so with the determination
of future service.’

Oo
DAL. are NIGHT AT FORUM
ee

 

‘Students Council Makes Plans For I

9

COUNCIL ELECTIONS TO TAKE’

Sa pe ele

 

College at at Yellow Seo gs, Ohio.

‘om y

HU

\

TLL

 

 

Year Book Editor

 

 

 

Ralph S. Morion, who promises a real

scintillating collegiate Year Book

Goodwill Loan Fund
for Canadian
Students

ADMIRABLE AND NOVEL
PLAN

A student loan fund to promote
international good will among the
young men and women of Canada, the
United States, and Spanish America
has been established by Mr. Peter E.
Alliot of New Jersey. Antioch College,
at Yellow Springs, Ohio, has been chosen
as the in&Stitution where students can
take advantage of this fund.

Canadian students have been attracted to Antioch because of its novel plan
to combine in a_ single organized
program a liberal education, training
for a calling, and practical experience in
real life. Half the students study at
college while the other half work in
industry.

In this part-time work, students are
placed in carefully selected positions of
unusual educational value in business,

journalism, education, engineering, home
economics, scientific research, and many
other fields. Two students alternate
on each job in shifts of five or ten
weeks. Antioch students are engaged
in about two hundred firms in sixteen
different states. This part-time work,
under experienced direction, helps young
people to determine their callings, and to
prepare for them. It also enables the
students to pay about half the cost
of a college education.

Antioch students are carefully selected. They come from all but two
of the forty-eight American states,
from several Canadian provinces, and
from foreign countries. At no other
American college is the student body
of young men and women so representative of every part of America and all
phases of American life. A considerable proportion of the students go into
graduate study, education, or scientific
research.

Information about the loan fund can
be had by writing directly to Antioch

  

The following headlines were casually cut from a city newspaper.
Do they suggest any picture to you? If you were an artist, what cartoons would you draw? Have they any particular significance in casting

light on present conditions?

VARSITY EDITOR FIRED FOR “PETTING” EDITORIAL
90 PER CENT OF PEOPLE MADE CRIMINALS THROUGH N. S. TEMPERANCE ACT, SAYS E. J. CRAGG

CHICKENS COMING HOME TO ROOST
“CHURCH”? PARTY SWAYS HOUSE
DEATH AND COURT HALT SALVATION ARMY
OIL ISSUES LEAD MONTREAL CURB
NOT FOR THE PARTY BUT FOR THE PEOPLE
—FORUM— Skating with Band, Saturday 3 to 5
WOLVES PROTECT GOAL
(What manner of wolves are these?)
STOMACH GIVES UP TOOTH BRUSH
| BULLS GAMBOL IN GRAIN MARKET
BEFORE YOU BUY—LOOK UNDER THE LID
BRAWL REPORTED

A street-fight was reported to police headquarters shortly before midnight

last night.

3 MINISTERS TO QUIT PRESBYTERY

CITY ALDERMEN WOULD DO AWAY WITH TRAFFIC COPS
(Black Magic? asks the child?)
PLASTERERS ASK NEW WAGE SCALE

aS Gy BS BAW. FINDS HIMSELF IN “DEPLORABLE POSITION”
ht CORN AND OATS HIT NEW HIGHS

A oN hl re, CE gc" gi aid,

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 15th,

SS

 —Official Student Publication at Dalhousie

fate

al}

  

ii

  

1929

PLACE ON MAR. 5

COUNCIL AND GLEE CLUB CONSTITUTIONS, REDUCTIONS IN STUDENTS’ BOOKS, N.F.C.U.S.,
MALCOLM HONOUR SOCIETY, ALL RECEIVE
ATTENTION

Able Committees to Handle Problems

One of the important results of the%

meeting that the Students’ Council
held Friday night was the appointment
of Fred C. Jennings, popular Dalhousian to the position of assistant to
Dr. C. M. McKenzie, present representative of OTE University to the
Mie. Cy OU. Mr. Jennings, acting
in that apt will become thoroughly
acquainted with the work and _ will,
automatically become Dalhousie’s representative at the next annual meeting.

The committee of selection consisting
of Messrs. Rankin, Laurence and
McKenzie recommended that Mr. Alex
O'Handley of the Law School be next
year's assistant to Mr. Jennings. This
of course in conditional with Mr.
O’Handley's acceptance.

Another topic of importance to all
students and in which the council has
taken a deep interest is the one concerning the sale of books to students.
It was maintained by several at the
meeting that books can be ordered
direct. This would mean a decided
saving to all students. It was suggested a the matter be left with
the N. F. U. S. but it was thought
best to try ‘ths plan alone for one year.
Mr. Laurence was appointed a committee of one to find out/all details.

The question of the constitution of
the Council was next considered. The
constitution will be reprinted and will
be placed where all students may read
and become thoroughly acquainted
with it.

Then the constitution of. the Glee
Club was discussed for some time.
It was decided that it be left to a joint
meeting of the Council and Glee Club
executive. At this point a_ lively
discussion ensued as to who are eligible
to become members of the Glee Club
Executive. Mr. Singer (who was present) felt that all students who are
active in Glee Club affairs and who
generously give of their time to its
support should be given the preference
over those who are unwilling or who do
not care to spend any effort whatever
on the Club. Mr. McIntosh thought
that this would be a discrimination
against those who are not talented
enough to be truly active and he reminded his hearers that al] students are
members of the Club and hence are
eligible to any office.

Mr. Singer, who is president of the
Glee Club, went on to explain how things
were run in general, He advised the
council to appoint a paid property
man for next year. The man would
be responsible to the Council for all
properties. He also spoke on several
other matters. Mr. other gatters.jiMic. Goudge felt thaty ee felt that

 

 

the Glee Club administration should
look after all these things itself, and
that the council could not be burdened
by the internal affairs of every organization. President Rankin agreed with
Mr. Goudge, but asserted that things
could not go on in that fashion and that
he would call a joint meeting to discuss
all problems.

The president then took the matter
of the expenses of their delegate to the
meeting of the N. F. C. U.S. It was
moved by Mr. Laurence and seconded
by Mr. Goudge that all expenses should
be paid. The motion carried.

The Dental students had ‘gone in the
hole’ on their Lord Nelson Dance and
consequently had applied to the Council
for a gym dance Saturday. - There
were two conflicts—one over the allotted
number of Dalhousie dances and another
over the fact that Saturday night was
Faculty night at the gym. Saturday
night dances were not popular, as a
rule, with the faculty. It was decided
that the Dents be permitted to hold
their dance in the near future, pending
action of the Council of Nine.

The Council was offered a sum of
money for the lumber of the rink.
Mr. Bennet was appointed a committee of one to deal with the matter.

The Council elections will take place
as usual the*first Tuesday in March.
The students will be notified as soon as
possible so that there will be enough
time for the political pot to boil. After
some discussion it was decided that the
President of the Glee Club be voted for
at the same time. A ‘ nominating
Committee was appointed to select
suitable candidates for that position.
This committee consists of Messrs.
Singer, Ross, McIntosh McCunn and
Prof. Bean, (two from the Glee Club,
two from the Council and one from the
Faculty).

Then the Malcolm Honor Society
was discussed. Last year the selections
were made by the following: Prof.
Wilson, Prof. Gowanloch, Miss Gladwin,
Mr. Scott and Mr. Winfield. This
year the Council appointed a committee consisting of: Prof. Wilson,
Prof. Gowanloch, Miss Barnstead, Mr.
Goudge and Mr. Farmer. The committee will begin to function immediatelv as the Year Book will soon be complete.

Those present of the Council were as
follows: Miss Barnstead and Messrs
Rankin, McIntosh, Laurence, Stewart
Goudge and Bennet. Several students

were also present.
Py te, Ee

“Adversity” Protest Paper
to Varsity in Statement

Special to the Dalhousie Gazette.

TORONTO, ONT. Feb. 11.—The usual calm and _ placid
progress of ‘‘The Varsity’’ undergraduate daily at the University
of Toronto, has been rudely disturbed by a series of events which

have aroused the whole university. The editor, L.

J. Ryan, was

summarily dismissed, after he printed an editorial last Wednesday, exposing certain injustices done to ‘‘The Varsity” and
certain injustifiable actions by members of the joint executive,
the chief instrument of student government.

Publication of ‘‘The Varsity”’
Its place being taken on Thursday by an official
The following day the page resumed publication

four hours.
bulletin.

was suspended for twenty
under the editor-ship of a B. A. Divinity Student, with members

of the joint executive as his assistants.

The lack of under
graduate news drew several protests in the form of lebus from

students on the campus.

Meanwhile the ex staff of “The Varsity”, having agreed
to resign if the editor was fired approved of his move in publishing our independent paper, “The Adversity” in the columns of a

Toronto evening daily.

In its columns, the charges which caus
ed Mr. Ryan’s dismissal are reiterated, and no adequate official

answer has yet been given.

The president of the University declined to commit himself toa proposal for an investigation made by three members of
“The Adversity” staff on the authority of the whole staff. The
Board of Governors are being approached in the matter.

News and feature articles including the widely popular
“Campus Cat"’ under the name “Cats Meow”’ and sport stories
are appearing in ‘“The Adversity”’ as well as editorials.

The editorial which led to Mr. Ryan's dismissal is entitled ‘‘Where we Stand” it is in part as follows: The editor has been
asked to produce as good a product after being presented with

far less facilities than any previous editor.
that since the students pay him, he must write
want”’ (as interpreted by an energetic minority).

He has been told
‘What they
Yet the stud
ents who are set up as the judges of the paper having nothing

to do with the fixing of expenses.

They have no more to do

(Continued on page 3)

soa Coe :
a - Hl

‘ Ras eo

University—

watt
a”? ? oa
rae

NN. 4

HF

11 |) UVADAORATUOEE
LL

'
'
;

'

 

Conductor

 

Sina Singer who conducted the Augmented

Orchestra for ‘‘Carrie”’

Ryan, Editor of Varsity, Fired; Staff

Backs Him

_—_——_—

NOW PUBLISHES ‘‘ADVERSITY”

The freedom of the press received one
of its most severe setbacks last week,
when Mr. L. J. Ryan, editor of ‘‘The
Varsity”, the official undergraduate
public ation of the University of Toronto
was dismissed from office because of his
editorials, in which he attempted to
bring to light certain practises which
had been going on for some time in the
immediate vicinity of the University.

Ryan's dismissal was not entirely
unexpected. He had been threatened
before because of the firm stand he
took in regard to his position. Ryan
had always believed in the freedom
of the press, especially of the college
press, and he felt that as editor he was
compelled to express himself frankly on
all matters which were of any importance to his student readers.

It began when a certain divine
delivered a denunciation on that widely
practised art. of modern youth—"'petting’. He showed how this new in- !
stitution in society was debasing the
depths of the soul and degrading the
morals. He argued that further
existence of humanity ~ depends to
a great extent on the complete eradication of this great evil.

“THE VARSITY’ INVESTIGATES

Now it happened that ‘‘The Varsity”
had, with no little courage begun a
campaign somewhat earlier in order to
find out what was the general opinion
of the students on that very subject.
Investigation showed that the majority
of the students, of both sexes, were in
favour of it. So the editor felt it
his duty to publish an_ editorial
which expressed the opinion of these
students—that the practise was general
among them.

The next question that arose was
whether the editorial had totally misrepresented the students or whether
it had given a true version of the facts
of the case. There began then a series

(Continued on page 3)

 

ris 4 ee | +5.
oa

=—s a me: i ae. hs
me he gs
; = @ fA ‘ "
wie gM
3

wi S 4

  

Lectures Not
Beneficial ? —
Debate Tonight

MISSES COWPERTHWAITE
AND LESLIE AND MESSRS.
SMITH AND POWELL
TO ARGUE

A Delicate but Live
Subject

To-night is to be a gala night at
Sodales. There the perturbed members
of the student body shall have an opportunity of expressing their views on the
things they learn or fail to learn, and no
doubt the professors of Dalhousie will
be greatly aided by the constructive
advice given by the orators in this
evening’s combat.

The subject for discussion is ‘‘Resolved that the lectures given at Dalhousie are not, on the whole, beneficial
to the human mind.”’ The debate will
be lead by four prominent people
around the campus—Kenneth Smith
and Margaret Coperthwaite, upholding
the affirmative and Joseph Powell and
Jean Leslie the negative.

Miss Coperthwaite “needs no introduction” to Dalhousie audiences.
She is well known in college circles and
no one could be more suited to discuss
so important a proposition and guide
the minds of the students in their
attempts to solve the weighty problem
which is presented by this debate.

Miss Leslie is a newcomer to Dalhousie but has already shown a keen
interest in Sodales. Her skill was
quite obvious when she interrupted the
flow of eloquent verbosity of one of
our most experienced oratorical gladiators, in the big pre-Christmas debate
on student government.

Mr. Kenneth Smith, a second year
lawyer, has had considerable experience
in debating and should put forward
much profound argument in favour of the
futility of our University lectures.
When he gets through the faculty will
tremble in their firm rooted thrones of
autocracy and shed bitter tears that
their efforts seem to be in vain.

Mr. Smith, however, will not be in
true form if we do not leave opposite
him his great rival and opponent,
; Joseph Powell. Mr. Powell’s eloquence
is known to all. His keen wit and
quick and subtle powers of repartee,
have more than once brought forth the
wonder and admiration of Procedure II,
and still the wonder grows that one
small head can carry all he knows.
By Mr. Powell the professorial dignitaries of the university will find themselves most worthily defended.

The debate will follow the ordinary
custom adopted by Sodales. After the
leaders have spoken the question will
be open to discussion by the whole
meeting. This is a real, live subject,
a subject of most practical importance
and outstanding significance. Thisis a
chance to learn what everybody thinks
for and against the lecturers, and a
chance for the lecturers to gather information from the students, and thereby
rectify any error, if, by chance, there
should be such.

The debates at Sodales have been
well attended. From now on the
society offers a big program of interesting debates. Turn out to-night and
show your enthusiasm.

 

Ever since Sir Walter Raleigh brought
tobacco to: England men have either
been smokers or crabs; the latter refering to those who crab about the
former. Some say the habit is harmless
if the smoke is not inhaled, others suggest that cigarette smoking alone is the
noxious form and still others affirm
that no form of smoking is harmful.
Be this as it may. No one. believes
that tobacco is in any way beneficial
to the user. True enough, the practice
of smoking certain herbs as a prophylactic against diseases is not unknown,
but in recent years therapy has discovered more scientific methods of combating
malicious diseases and the methods
‘‘a fumer’’ are gradually being supplanted and regarded as antiquated.
Extensive ‘‘nicotine”’ researches have
revealed only one lone praiseworthy
attitude of smoking, namely, the smoking of the peace pipe, in vogue (till
recent years) among the various Indian
tribes of the two Americas. This form
actually redeems the repulsive habit
from utter social ostracism because it is

based on a reasoned and directed principle whose ultimate aim is in sympathy
with social welfare in contrast to the
ordinary, selfish pursuit of the habit,
which has no broader purpose than that
of satisfying the individual sucking
instinct. Still there is no doubt that
the intrinsic value of peace pipe smoking
was more than offset by its propensity for
facilitating the propagation of cancer,
lockjaw and toothache. Thus we are
obliged to believe that even if the habit
had not automatically passed into
oblivion it was ultimately doomed to
become extremely unpopular.

Does this mean that our whole socia1
structure is being guided and undermined by one of the most persistent and
unbiquitous of habits— Is it true that we
professing to be Christians and to be
guided in all our deeds by well balanced
principles founded on rational and consistent thinking, are not only competing
favorably with, but are establishing a
precedent for pagan nations in the
consumption of camouflage nicotine
(Continued on page 3)

 
 
 
  
    
  
  
   
  
  
      

Rea a EILEEN C. CAMERON
S$ DUBINSKY

R.A. DONAHOE
| S. W. ARCHIBALD
5 Rosebank Ave. Phone L 2291

si

Subscription Rate: $1.00 per year

 

On Sensationalism
, ;

The following is the telegram, sent to the Editor of the Varsity:

;
ee
“

i.

_ _ “Dathousie Gazeite regrets that today, when freedom of the press is
_ taken for granted, that the editor of University newspaper is to be fired
because he sought to discover truth. Commend your stand regarding
_ freedom of press. Would appreciate statement from you for Gazette.

aR

_ Wire collect. Mail editorial under fire.

This Editorial was headed as follows in the Evening Mail on

Wed. the 13th: “Dal. Gazette Lauds Stand on Petting Issue.”’
Can anyone on a fair and reasonable construction of the telegram say that we do any more than commend the stand of the

Editor regarding freedom of the press?

ae, | Meaning by freedom—that conception of freedom which is entertained by the reasonable man, who is guided by those principles
of conduct which governs our relationships and contacts with

v

reasonable neighbors. te
. It is certainly not a freedom to misinterpret. Newspapers
havea duty of care to label their articles so as to convey no erroneous
ideas. They should exercise due diligence in this regard. A person
must not suffer himself to be quoted in newspapers as taking a
_ stand unless and until he has actually done so.
We do not believe in sensationalism or ballyhoo. We will not
brook miSrepresentation. We do believe however in the truth
simply told.
We are told we must forgive sensational news in newspapers
_ that are business concerns and depend on circulation and advertising
for their existence. But when these newspapers go beyond their
own back yards to stir their neighbor’s soup with their ladles they
make more than a huge mistake; the least they do, is to leave themselves open to attack. Of course in this case the telegram is very

7 i —
ry AS —
iM

eee in clear. . . :
| 4 _ what it purports to convey...
WW Re al oes |

Bente i
For Grandpa! / ——-- The dismissal of L. J. Ryan, Editor of the Varsity, The Under_ graduate Newspaper of the University of Toronto, because of his
Editorial ‘“To pet or not to pet,’’ came rather as a shock to whose
who had read the cause of the firing: There seems to be nothing
wrong with the editorial. There are no untoward suggestions.
_ There are a few statements of fact gathered from a study of con- ditions as they actually exist and from the attitudes of the younger
- generation towards these conditions.
| Although no one will say that petting is admirable nor praiseworthy; although one may even doubt the good taste of an enquiry
regarding “‘the art’’ appearing in a college paper,—one cannot yet
see why the Editor who seeks to establish the truth regarding the
matter, should be fired because of a very mild editorial.
_ In answer to the charge that youth is debasing the coinage of the
; soul with kisses the Editor said: ‘‘the soul does not traffic in kisses.”’
We agree with him strictly in that remark. The soul does not traffic
in kisses. Youth is not taking petting seriously. To him it is no
problem. Why force him to take it seriously?

It seems to be assumed that petting is a new institution. This
is an old old world and we believe that you cannot teach an old dog
he. Besides who is there who can prove that petting is

new

Look to your Bibles. Look to your Classics. Look to your
books throughout the ages. You will find that the Bible, that
Horace in his odes, that the immortal Shakespeare, et al, depict

 

“a
ao it
:
}

7

-~

~

teeth at the youth of today. akg
Then too the opinion.is prevalent that petting is a weakness
i peculiar to students only. A persual of the daily papers will reveal
ae: that as a class , few, very few can afford to cast stones.
| a The education of youth is left entirely to the elders; ifit strays
ever so little, it is because youth has not been properly educated.
So that youth is not to blame. | 3
_ What is the motive of these attacks on youth? Will you save
our soul’s from perdition? That's it. It has been brought to the
attention of the writer that a new word has been coined and its
peculiar application has been indicated to him: The new word is
“sin-hound”. Without malice and with a smile we may apply it.
We are aware that in various parts of the Dominion, packs of
| hounds are kept for various phases of sport: deer-hounds, fox-hounds
<] and other hounds; so that the meaning of sin-hound is obvious;
sin-hounds are those used in chasing sinners. They differ from other
he

i petting parties that make the “‘horrible’’ frank youth of today flush
F with shame. Not only have some written about it but the greatest
Fig in history have not always led unimpeachable moral lives. It
i therefore gets a bit under one’s skin when space and time are wasted
rei on this matter by those who should know better.

i We cannot understand this pulling of hair and gnashing of
f

species of hounds in that he is only two-legged; nevertheless their
activity and keenness are,as great as their four legged prototype.

\ ‘ _ They are found in both sexes; they nag their prey to a mental—death

| _ which is detrimental ot the progress of the race. Very often the

rich and their sin-hounds pursue sinners for the mere pleasure

4! ee them run. But today the prey stands at bay and shows

its teeth. It shows and It does not run. It has the courage

_ of its convictions and will fight for these convictions even to the

_ last of a few of its ornamental feathers.

_ Youth today is honest, frank, moral, fairer in his dealings with

ie ae of other creeds and races than the youth of yesterday.
By int a“ Ae. We
Be th ane 2 ee

bias

  

        

Il-read_and intelligent. These are broad statements, but
_ The facilities and opportunities for intellectual expression

Ah, wisdom of three thousand years

   
  
 
 

 

we

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE __

 
 
 
 
  

<a ah

 

 

 

AS APRILS COME

When you forget, and I forget,
And s ying shall come again,

With daft ils in every yeard,
To cool the eyes of men;

I think that God will not forget
That He mademeand you
To laugh awhile, and dream awhile,

One singing April through;

I think that God will not forget,

WHAT PRICE FREEDOM

 

How desolate you made the heart of
man
Who took from him the altars where he

prayed
And left no sacred spot
Where he may bend his knee
Or quench in him the appetite to rever
ence
—Who washed for him the windows of

his soul i But sniile a bit, and then

Where enters now the cold white light Look down and turn His world
of truth t ~ around,

Not split up a before to rays of rainbow That we may meet again.
shades —————

Prismotically by dust that clung with- SONNET

 

out.
You rudely stripped the lenses from his The brooding mountain shoulders its

eyes
And led him from the darkness into wide SEMA dadhnese of the sky,
light A globe of burning ice—the moon—
You led him from the darkness into hangs high
light While black fantastic shadows on the
But blinking at a world he shrinks to see grass i
Withdraw and leave him to his shadow a A ee fearful of the winds
kind
eee ed hope and| .° “Spent Ulless. cannot

The shimmering coils the smooth-skinned rivers be

fear and pray
Less like your man of harsh blenk self
sufficiency Between the hills, like mirrors of molten
More savage with his incantortions and glass.
his ways. I brood, a pall of sorrow weighs on me,

A burning loneliness. With passioned
want

I long for him, I need him, O the pain!

From close-locked lips I hear my cry
break free.

A thousand silvery echoes wake to taunt

My grief, then silence veils the world
again.

Ah wisdom of three thousand years |
Who led men out of bondage—lead him

back }
For liberty was bought at price too dear
—E. R. B.

have been taken advantage of—by youth. Yet from the remarks
of those whose youth has long faded, one would think that youth
was the one black scar on an otherwise lily-white world. One would
think that petting was the one disease that was causing the greatest
havoc in the world today.

Are there not weightier problems with which grown men with
experience may be pre-occifpied? Are there not real and existing
problems that are crying for intervention—of maturity. .

We would suggest a greater pre-occupation with housing
conditions of the poor. We would suggest a little campaign against
the grasping business men: a correction of economic conditions.

A re-arrangement of the system so as to give work to all, so that] city.

all may have a living wage. We would suggest a little campaign
for an earnest attempt at peace.

We will be accused of being youthful; of not understanding
that all these things are impossible; that it is futile for youth to
talk about these things. Oh, how much more futile must it appear
to youth when elders preoccupy their time with trivial superficial
efforvescent, fleeting, nugatory, inefficacious things like petting.
Why not dig beneath the surface? Why not get at the real evils.
Why not attempt the solution of the causes? It is then a perfect
world outside of petting?

Youth has been invited into this feast of life by the elders.

It speaks for itself. No one can make any mistake as to|At this feast we have been gorged with the foods dished up by the

old cooks; hate, malice, warfare, suspicion, rank suspicion. That is
the state into which we come as successors. We are the ones who
should complain.

There is an established principle of International Law that the
conquering state comes into the liabilities of the vanquished as well
as into the rights. Youth may be compared to the New State
succeeding the Old State. Youth has come into an Old State that
is far from perfect. Itis born or forced intoa state in the midst of
deplorable conditions that the elders have not been able to cure.

Conscientiously youth sets about to right the wrongs; to
draw up new tables for measurement, to delve down to the roots
of the evil. Instead of being assisted by those who have had years
of experience, youth is checked and blocked in its attempt to bring
the truth to light. Has not the freedom of the press been won as the
constitutional right of all British Citizens? Who can point to anything inherently wrong in the Editorial of L. J. Ryan. Please point
it out tous. We may be thick-skulled! Whose mental corns have
been stepped on? And if there are mental corns to be stepped on
then it is time to cure them. And the only method to cure them
is to ascertain what they are; and then through discussion by those
directly interested; or by expert advice if called in to thrash the matter out. "

And what happened in Toronto. With commendable initiative
the Editor of the Varsity set out to bring to light some affairs that
needed correcting. He was forced out of his position. We would be
ashamed to think that the authorities at Dalhousie would stop the
mouth of the Gazette if it discovered some wrong dealings and
conscientiously set about to bring them to light and to suggest
cures. Here we have the record of being non-sectarian, non-political.
It is our tradition. The authorities here have no axes to grind.

And we commend Mr. Ryan in his attempt to establish the
truth. He wanted to show up the wrongs that were prevalent.
He wanted to have all the cards laid out on the table—no cards to
be tied to elastics hidden up people's sleeves. Is one to infer that
intrigue is preferable? ‘If we are afraid to face our inner selves as
reflected not merely in a mirror but as depicted distinctly and unmistakably by our own actions and as re-affirmed by out own words
—then the goal towards which democracy strives must be forever,
Nothing! We must not even waste a pious hope on it. Then even
the war has been fought in vain—if we must revert to pre-war methods of dealing. Then we must forever give up the hope of progress
of the human mind.

Then the National Federation of Canadian University Students
had better pack up and with its brother and sister organizations go
on a pilgrimage to a land where the teachers of mankind will practice
a way of life that in its relationships between man and man will be
guided by “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.”

If no such land be found, then youth has this much to its credit
that it is setting out on the right path. The National Federation
of Canadian University Students, the affiliated bodies of U.S. A.
of England and the Continental States—these organizations are the
embodiments of the strivings of the youth of today towards truth
and mutuality. Youth has shown the better example.

Bravo Glee Club

Glee Club has scored again. Governors, faculty, alumni,
students all thronged the Majestic Theatre to be entertained by
the musical comedy: “Carrie Comes to College’. And they were
entertained! A co-ordination of vocal and instrumental music,
dancing and pretty co-eds that cheered the eye and delighted the ear.
The Dalhousie Glee Club is certainly playing its proper part in the
Life of this University.

 

eH |
 ||[THE LIFE OF A

 

Hillers

It would seem that hash is all the
“rage”’ at the Hall now. Well we have
our own troubles with beans and our
painful experiences induce us to advise
the ‘‘Hallers’’ to “‘eat what they can
and can what they'can’t.”’ Their “‘tablet”’
idea is a good one and some of the
young Hiller Meds might be able to
advance potent suggestions re variety,
etc.
fe fe fe

A number of Pine Hill Med students
attended the Med Banquet on Monday
night, and altho they remained for the
entire program, one young man persistently states he was there only for the
first speech—2 + 2 =4.

On Tuesday, Pine Hill was invaded
by about thirty Mt. Allison students
seeking information concerning the
theological possibilities of this_ site.
About nine o'clock in the evening inside
information was provided and about

*,
o°

1 a.m. the boys put on an informal
party. Nuff ’sed.

EXTRA SPECIAL! ! !

CLASS COMPETITION

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE

’*Resolved that the idea of human
progress is a delusion.”’
Wednesday February 29.

8 o’clock
Munro Room

Py /

we ate ate

There was an important meeting
held Thursday noon by all who are
interested in the Model Assembly
project. Candidates were chosen and
plans discussed. As it was too near
to publication, the full details will
appear in next week’s Gazette.

Reo fe fe
Delta Gamma Dance is coming
Real Soon.
* & &

There will be a full band practise
tonight at 8.15 p.m. Mr. Ward, the
leader requests that all players be
present. The band, after a few practices will become one of the finest in the

a
VISITOR

 

Captain Arthur Calder commander of
the Biological Board ship the ‘‘Prince’’
was at the University for a pleasant
visit several weeks ago. Capt. Calder's
boat is used in carrying on extensive
Biological surveys from Bar Harbor,
Maine to the Labrador Coast. It has
made considerable observations of the
waters of our own neighborhocd.

BIOLOGY CLUB

 

On Thursday Feb. 21st, at 7.45 p.m.

there will be a meeting at the Forrest
Building of the Biology Club.
_. Mr.-George C. Whiteley will give an
illustrated lecture on the Athabasca
and Mackenzie regions of the Canadian
sub-arctic,

The lecturer who spent some
months of the past summer in the north
will give some description of Biologica
investigations on Lake Athabasca. °

This meeting is the Club's annual
quest night and the students from the
Atlantic Experimental Station are to
be entertained. Everybody out, and/
make this meeting the success it was
last year.

———$—_——————————
Dalhousie’s Skating Night
at the Forum is NOT this
Tuesday. However the date
will be announced definitely
in Our next issue. |

Junior = Senior Dance
Tickets

May he obtained from

‘HOOT’? MAHON
VENOR TRITES
JOHNNY BUDD

HUM HARRIS
SAMMY JACOBSON
BARNEY ARCHIBALD
KELLY MORTON
DIPPY DONAHOE

 

 

 

  
  

    

LITTLE COLLEGE |

a
ed

7 rH

 
 

ct i e« s |

Z a

GRE aga ee -e

ae ne X rt A i —

Le iy | yo fe

* a re +i no ae ff ;

; a ‘ 5 a 7

a te ee y « ,
- dae + ‘ “ ;
ia :

     

—35

ebruary 15th, 1920 _

 

 

Fz

Hallers

ESSE QUAM VIDERE

 

 

One was privileged this week to
observe the evidence that our Editor
was’ a guest at the Shirreff Hall dance.
The little kind word concerning our
motto and its significance was made the
essence of an editorial.

“To be rather than to seem"’. It is
my. belief that the corner of this motto
meant internals not externals. Appearances count for a good deal, but in real
situations the inner person is the thing
that counts. Even in a girl’s residence
where there is abundance of ready-towear complexions one may find character
beneath.

This is just a word. So much more
could be said, but why argue the unargueable? Noone really knows anyone else; so judge by externals if you

must.
—E. C.
a
WHACK Y MacKINNON

 

Tall, blond and handsome—
More sinned against than sinnin?
A swanky Captain Swagger—j
Such is Wacky MacKinnon.

JESSIE GLADWIN

Lord High of Shirreff Hall
Shows form—and not a bad one
Has her cares, and little airs
Such is Jessie Gladwin.

SINA SINGER

 

 

Tall and temperamental

At music—a humdinger
Not at all exciteable?

Such is Sina Singer.
ere aoe

LIBRARY RECEIVES NEW BOOKS

 

The Library has again become indebted to its generous friend, Mr. D. M.
Macgillivray, who presented it with a
list of books autographed by the authors. All are extremely interesting and
valuable. We quote a few: ‘‘We Two”
by Lord and Lady Aberdeen; ‘‘Social
and Diplomatic Memoirs,” by Sir J.
Reynold Robb; “‘Holism and Evolution”’
by General J. C. Smuts; ‘Goethe’
by Emil Ludwig and “Crises of the
Naval War’ by Viscount Jellicoe.
They will all be on exhibition in the
case of the reading room shortly.

:
(

 

Mabel Granger a charming actress

with very clever talent who is the

leading lady with the Carroll
Players

The RossPrint Ltd |
95 ARGYLE STREET
Printers Publishers
Bookbinders

Wespecialize in SOCIETY WORK
TICKETS, PROGRAMS
and all kinds of
COMMERCIAL WORK

 

 

 

Orders delivered same day received

Phone S. 1958

SS

 

 

A DELIGHTFUL VOLUME

One of the

Appleton Master-Composer Series

SCHUBERT

AT HOME

In this volume you will find the life-story of this much beloved

composer, followed by a liberal collection of h
linked together by paragraphs of biograp

character.

is most famous compositions
hical, anecdotal or critical

A splendid book for the music student

 

  
 

na ne
 
  

   

SS Sa
- ne»
i 2 7 7
#
Pf ih «

eee oe ee
a’

*
22 =
fo

pe! ae a eee
A

Re Se.
>. Es
as

=

—/

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

”"
aa fe
m
ra,

}

men

a

rs _ *
5 +
i ee a

dweller if he lingers there
_ app fo the dye ore F “¢ recta for the ae iawen A eee
“Pine Hill finds the Hall girl ex-| the Hall when you said we talked about
io i are mentioned. Well,|} Pine Hill sheiks. Shirreff Hall has
the driveway here is never cluttered| been endeavouring to make their after

 

--—s perform the gentle tas
a

 * “That the

ia Perralt 3
; ‘ nae aA Fy.
ee

   
 
 
 
  
 

  
 

4 . Cis
Trike Pye. hye cm of
a. raAls 4 4. ty rin a ©
\ Arts ¥ < vine
t Ae. © " ea
: . ‘eae Se? ry ey
\ t Pe _ '
*
as) ay

  
  
 
 
   
     
  
 

 
 
 

ave with “Student Govern
:
ye fe ittan
Fe

 
 

Sil ; * en ;

The editor makes this statement because the preponderce of official opinion in the joint executive makes it impossible
) receive cooperation therefrom. Some object to this

ular councils, but

use it is not
n five non-student

  

  
 
 

body te 2 responsible to the po
to us its main difficulty is the presence at

   

; - votes. These are the president, two secretaries, paid and
vg a. :ppoir not by the students, but by the board of governors,

 

id appointed not by the students, but by the board of Governors, amd professors plus Mr. Dunlop. This official group
makes it impossible for us to obtain any satisfaction from the
udent members because five votes are too big an advantage
‘to overcome. We have protested, but in vain. e have fought
against misrepresentation and lobbying which have constituted
aflicial policy has steadily aimed at our dismissal. The lobbying before joint executive meetings done by Dunlop is only the
arailel-to the leben done in the board of student publicjons by Burns, his protege.
ee We can incerta why they want us out, because we
say “inconvenient” things. But why do they attempt to pose
as student representatives? Student consent has been and can
be obtained only by misrepresentation.
Students are told that there is a debt on the Council's
hands. There is not. There is a surplus. Students are
told that other Canadian student papers are run under the same
conditions that we have faced this year. No other student
ily in Canada is published by a staff that remains at press
_ all night, during the proofing and composition.
Let them bludge—on the student representatives into
firing us. They cannot deny that we have been the vic
tims of unprecedented treatment.

r. E&, USSHER,
News Editor The Adversity.

 

 

a

“MEN CONCEITED” SAYS
SHIRREFF HALLER

Hallers ‘‘felines” pursuing the Pine Hill
rodent. Then he admits that the worm
will turn (excuse the mixed metaphor,
but the word suited so well) and

ursue the feline. Far be it from a
Faller as long as there are men on the
campus or off of it for that matter. |

You like your women ‘“‘dove-like”’
even if ‘‘they are a little pigeon-toed”’
Yes, you like ‘em that way, G. A. B.
because they’re all you can get.

Shirreff Hall doesn’t depend upon
Pine Hill for escorts. If they did, one
would be reminded of building a house
on the sand. No support mental or
otherwise, if you know what I mean.

Not long ago a girl went from
Shirreff Hall to Pine Hill to see her
brother. * The Hillers, overcome by the
conception of their own importance,
thought she and her friend were pursuing them. Let it be known that the
only things which would take any
Haller -to that House of, Belzebub are
brotherly love and a mission of charity.
Men are conceited. They are born
that way, but when they come to Pine
Hill they become super-saturated with
the idea of their own significance.
Pine Hill reminds one of the desert.
There are mirages and delusions which

   
  

dinner chats interesting. So, ‘‘all jokes
aside said the girls, and stroked Pine
Hill off the list.”

G. A. B.

with the Hares ep hace .
eee of the taxt, e occupies

“secluded corner....advances etc., vs
aa repulsed”. If this isn’t the essence} | For G. A. B’s information the Old
of cheapness, what is? Do you con- Maids have disbanded. The er ear
: en the

to give Pine Hill ‘‘a break’.
final roll call of Old Maids shall come it
will be ‘Many are called but few shall
answer from Shirreff Hall.”

Come again G. A. B. and we'll knock
the “‘H”’ out of Hiller for you

—E. A. C.

sider that a girl need respond to all
advances because you have spent a
dollar or so on combined pleasure?
The boy asks the girl—she does not ask
him. It is assumed in polite society,
that her company is adequate com
nsation for all expenditure. G. A. B.
is also inconsistent here. He terms the

EDITOR FIRED

(Continued from page 1) _

of interviews of several prominent
students, chosen at random who were

uestioned on their attitude towards
the editorial. All frankly admitted
that they had certain views on the
extent of “‘petting” at the University,
and that the facts of the editorial had
by no means been a shock to them.
Naturally the opinions of these students
were published, as were also the letters
of ‘several who upheld the opposite
point of view—that 1s, that petting
should not be permitted. Thus “The
Varsity” was doing what ‘‘The Gazette ,
and, in fact, all papers do—it was
“serving its readers—it was a medium
by which the opinions and ideas of its
readers were being expressed.

ENTER THE GOVERNORS

t this point, the Board of Governors
om the eck. They decided that
the tone of these articles was displeasing. Majestically, they made it known
that news of the resignation of the
editor would make far more satisfactory
reading to them than articles on
“netting’’, and _ stories of _ professors
who were being ‘“vamped’’ by the
coeds, (for after all professors are
only human); and so they ordered the
Students Administrative Council to
k of ee
the head of the paper. But the 5. A. ©.
(they too oe young) refused that
pleasant duty, and advised the Governors to perform the task themselves.
Meanwhile, Ryan had been warned by
friends to ‘‘watch out.” The staff,
loyal to their leader voted unanimously to stand and fall with him. The
matter was finally referred to the
Joint Executive of the Students Administrative Council.

Before this august body Ryan appeared in person and promised to be good.
The matter was smoothed over and
almost forgotten for a few days.

THE LAST STRAW

Two days later, Ryan issued a scorching editorial in which he disclosed how
the Executive of the Students Council
was merely a plaything in the hands of
porate shor at the University.

I ment he says:
That th Eccative.ct the Students’

Council should be used when wanted

and ignored when not wanted is a
sad commentary on the consistency
of those who attack the Editor on the
ground, forsooth that he is not serving
the Students.”

This editorial burst the bubble and
Ryan was dismissed from his post by
the Joint Committee. His whole staff
of forty-nine walked out according to
their previously arranged plan, and
publication was suspended. The latest
report is that R. C. H. Mitchell, B. A.,
a divinity student and a former editor
of the paper is again editor. The
ousted editors, having lost their means
of expression sought and secured a
sheet in one of Toronto’s evening
papers. They named it—The Adversity’, and in it they are demanding
an official investigation of the whole
case.

“Milton and Patrick Henry! Well
may the shades of Milton sigh and
Patrick Henry's words be now forgotten.
Because of liberty and freedom of
speech, Ryan sacrificed his position.
We are glad to see that he made a
sacrifice of position rather than of
principles. About forty-five years ago,
Charles G. D. Roberts also sacrificed
a similar position for the sake of his
principles and he never regretted that
move.

This article would be sadly incomplete
if it did not contain the statement made
by the ‘‘Adversity’’—

“Suffer yourself to be condemned,
suffer yourself to be in prison, suffer
yourself to be hanged but publish your
opinion. It is not a right.—it is a
sacred duty.”

It is true that Ryan's career has been
stormy, that his writings have been
roundly criticized | easy and that
marks of disapproval have been shown
to him openly. But he is not the only
one. He is but another of that long
list of men who were prepared to sacrifice everything for the sake of freedom
and liberty—the principles that gave
birth to that noble appeal—the Areopagitica.

 

   

tHe SONG SHOP ur.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC
22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, 2 8 Canada

    
   
         

es i ys i
WE r Pe

: the smokers, the habit is

 

  

Ls
P.M oi 8
1 T

7
1°

4
Wik: a
. _ 7
4
‘

   
   
 

 

After a long absence Transit makes
its first appearance in the post Christmas issues of the Gazette.

The Engineers have done many
things since our last column appeared.
Among _the activities have been:—
The big ‘Boilermakers Ball” at the
Lord Nelson. Also that notable party
at the Waegwoltic on the ‘th inst.

The Engineers have also been planning new things too. A tour of inspection to the new shipyards to view
the workings on the ice-breaker now
under construction, is among the future
plans of the society. This tour in all
probability, will take place early next
month. \

Lectures on subjects of interest to
Engineers are on the schedule as well.

But the best of all, and the thing
that will be of most interest to Engineers is the Yearly Banquet; March is
the month but the day has not yet
been decided. Every Engineer will be
there and it promises to outshine every
other event.

ON SMOKING

; (Continued from page 1)

Alas, this is no exaggeration of the depth
to which our degraded notion has sunk!
Humanity is crying out for a super
philosopher who will remove the horrible
stigma, and by a hitherto unequalled
display of self-sacrifice, magnanimity
and inguenity will regain our former
social status by evolving a logical
argument to champion the cause of
smoking. It is in noble response to this
agonized plea that the writer has very
modestly produced this article which
she humbly expects will revolutionize
social opinions (throughout the world)
and as a result even the smallest
youngster may boldly light his “‘fag”’
without retiring behind the barn. An
individual is always more or less ill at
ease in the presence of others and the
degree of his embarrassment is largely
determined by the number of persons
present and the extent of the individual’s inferiority complex. ;

Inanimate objects such as walking
canes and tables are of inestimable
value in aiding the user to maintain his
air of naturalness. It would seem that
man’s limbs in themselves are
totally inadequate to produce those
gestures and poses so vital to his social
and business life. By this time you
must have guessed the secret. If a
man is alone in the centre of a ballroom during a dance, he feels as if he
were a centipede and ardently wishes
he could dodge behind a board fence or
drop into the basement. Now place the
same man in the identical position and
give him a cigarette. He 1s immedlately transformed from an embarrassed,
awkward, perspiring figure into an
aggressive, self-confident, calm individual! His attitude suggests that he at
least owns the dance hall if not the
whole block. After each little demonstration—puff, wave, pose, you know—
he gains a new burst of self-confidence
(whether he has any grounds for it or
not), according to the recent psychological theory that our feelings are
produced by our actions. The nonsmoker is at a serious disadvantage
when confronted by the great cigarette
or cigar-manipulating man unless he
has sufficient knowledge of human
nature to interpret the assumed air of
confidence and casualness in its true
light—that of mental and moral debility requiring artificial support! If
he can do this he has the smoker at a
distinct disadvantage. That very few
succeed, however, is evidenced by the
high .percentage of smokers. Most
non-smokers feel maddeningly inferior
to smokers.

Even women—those pure, undefiled
paragons (or rather paradoxes) of
noble example and clean habits have
succumbed with a vengeance. With
them, imitation and exhibitionism supplanted the desire for confidence and
pose, and once the habit was formed it
rapidly grew in popularity through
love of the habit (woman’s reason).
As a matter of fact, so long as the non‘smokers of the feminine sex greatly

        
       
        
        
   
    
    
    
       
    
      
     
    
 
    

  
 

 

 

bound to commandeer a large measure
of success, since most men adore a tinge
of the unconventional and don’t-givea-damn spirit in their female companions.
Personally I regard those traits with
genuine admiration. Only too soon
smoking among. women will become
universal and it will then behoove the
more daredevil of the sex to seek new
fields of adventure. It sure gives one
a “piggly-wiggly” feeling to conjecture
the ‘unconventional’ girl of that age!

If the reader is still awake I should
like to remind himethat in evolving this
humanity theory I have sacrificed all
secular pleasures—even human companionship—for a period of several
months, the greater part of which I
spent in a dark room—alone, except
when food was conveyed to me twice
weekly between the bars. My efforts
were totally divorced from any thought
of remuneration—I was actuated solely
by an unconquerable urge to justify
my fellow beings. I shall indeed feel
amply rewarded if Iam not assassinated
during the next twenty-four hours.

When all’s said and done—it’s much
better to smoke here than hereafter!

 

WINNERS FROM THE

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS , CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

/
ee a a eS

ee Le Gate

   
   

DALHOUSIE§GAZETTE

Goofey Supports

Moderns
(Answers DeKreppit) ,

 

 

Dear Gazette:—Let the DeKreppitts
laugh at the Goofees. I ask you—
Editor: Is Progress an Illusion? Is
there such a thing as the onward march
of civilization? Are we still living in
the Valley of the Shadow of Doubt?
Are we as intellectuals, to be mentally
bound like physical culturists become
muscle-bound? Are we forever to be
chained to superstition and tradition?
Must we always fear to be outselves?
Must we? Must we? Must we?—
Why? For stifling convention’s sake?

Let the De Kreppitts cast derision
upon the Goofee’s.. At least the Goofees are original. That is their contribution to civilization. It is colorful.
Brand new. Not-stereotyped and stale.
It is pulsating with the Jove of life.
Energetic! Electric! Ah! as DeKreppitt
himself last week admitted: ‘‘Highflying’’—Ah_ flying--how modernistic.
How expressive of that Modern Spirit
of adventure. This age, this spirit
will delight future historians for its
originality; and for its seeming disregard for all physical limitations:
such disregard requires courage, bravery.
Not in vain did the philosopher speak
of the Superman.

Yours
For Science and the Modern Spirit.
For Selection and Survival of the
Fittest.

For Progress and its Advantages—

I am the New Superman.

Slave nor humble servant to none,

DADDY GOOFEE.

THE GOOFEES RE-INTERPRET
HORACE

((Based on Horace’s Ode to I ydia)
OWED TO HORACE—AN APOLOGY

 

“O Lidia Lidia once you was mine
Gosh but you bore me now

Yu rave about Telephus, fell for his line,
Yu think he’s the cat’s meow!”

“Horace old thing”, try this on your
vic,”
I’m sure you ain't the snake’s hips
You only gabbed, you makes me sick
That kid? Why he’s got hot lips!

He may be a kid but ma he can neck
He puts you old boys in the shade
And boy can he applesauce? sure by the
peck
Why not? Sure the woman has paid.

Hark all you old boys, that kid ain’t no
lamb—
Far be it from him te be meek—
But we janes just laugh and think
what a ham
Is an old goose who would be a sheik.

 

ROBINSON'S TOURS

secure your reservations now
for the big excursion of the
season- Robinson’s Can. Nat.
Exhibition Tour, the largest
annual fair in the world. A
wonderful ten day trip for $125.

Embracing the following—
Leaving Halifax by pullman
car and visiting St. John, Quebec, Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto and a beautiful delux
bus trip of 160 miles to Niagara
Falls, including sight seeing
trips at Quebec, Montreal,
Ottawa and Toronto, stopping at the following hotels,
Admiral Beatty, Chateau Frontenac, Chateau Laurier and
Canada’s largest and best hotel, the Royal York, Toronto
(the largest hotel in the British
Empire).

Everything will be first class
in every respect, this is the
third year we have operated
this excursion and it is getting
better every year. This year’s
efforts will be greater than
ever, reservations will have to
be made early as we have to
notify the hotels how many to
expect, the excursion is personally conducted with chaperons in charge. Excursion
leaves Aug. 24th, returns Sept.
2nd—Don’t miss this wonderful trip.

For full particulars apply,
ROBINSON’S TOURS
P. O. Box 506, Halifax

 

ee i

P. S.—A $10.00 deposit will protect you; balance in monthly
instalments if you wish, for
your convenience.

STUDENTS

Text Books
Note Books
Loose Leaf Books

Stationery, Etc.

T. C. Allen & Co.

124 & 126 Granville Street

 

 

|

Never Mind! — ne
SMOKE A — a

4

ft ¢ fe)
ay vy

  
  
   
   
 
   
 

   
  
 

¢
.

      

tas 3 .
YS t
j

MacDONALD @
FORSYTHE
College Mens’ Overcoats
$15. to $30.

119 Gottingen St. - Phone L 142

   
 
      
  

   
   
  

Say 1 with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF
Cut Flowers XK Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. Wealso
do Table Decorating. Weare the
only members of the T. F. D.
Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world.

The Rosery

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

    
 
 

 

       

SUMMER VACATION
TOUR TO EUROPE

Visiting France, Switzerland,
Germany, The Rhine, Belgium,
England and Scotland.

A Canadian Tour under the
personal leadership of Prof. H.
W. McKiel, Mount allison University.

Sailing from Montreal and Quebec July
5th, by the Cnnard Line Steamship ‘

** ASCANTA’’
SEVEN WEEKS TOUR

$6.40

and up, according to accommodations
on steamer
Full information and descriptive literature sent free on request
THOS. COOK & SON

      
   
 

 

Halifax Ladies’ College

and

Conservatory
of Music

Upper and Lower School

Teachers’ Certificates in Art
Household Science

. in co-operation with
Music WAGONS-LITS Co.
Tel. S 224 1128 St. Catherine St., West

Montreal

 

 

 
  
    
 
  
 
  
   
 

PRINTING
For People Who Care

We keep promises
and Deliver on time.

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
Phone S. 3800-3801

ee

Commercial & Society
Printers

   
    

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

 

 

    
 

 

    
  

 

  
  

 
 

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets

for $2.00

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

 
   
 

MACLEOD, BALCOM|

LIMITED

    
    
  

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street

  
     
    

Cor. uin Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.
Quinpool Road Sac. 428 Har. 127
and Oxford Street Breguet
ERING DYEING
and Bedford CLEANING PRESSING

    
    
 
  

  

HAROLD G. WILSON
; Arts 2-T-5
University of Toronto

   

Represented MACLEAN’S
MAGAZINE during the
Vacations of his “Year” as

well as in 1926 and 1927.

He made a financial success
of the work, and is now
permanently employed with
the House of MACLEAN’S
as District Sales-Manager
for CANADIAN HOMES
& GARDENS and MAYFAIR.

Men with a real objective
in life should investigate our
proposition for Summer Sales
ti work. It will pay them bi
dividends for their Vacation-months. fet
The work is Congenial—Territory can be Arranged—Reasonable Salary and Actual Traveling Expenses Guaranteed.

You will receive training in your own locality; with a competent supervisor.

COMMISSION and BONUS on Production also PAID

Write+ - Student-Sales-Manager
Se MACLEAN’S MAGAZINE
and interview 153 University Ave., Toronto

NOW
wv
ED

ON MERIT ONLY

   
    
     
    

 

 

 
 
  
  
   
 
     

  

 
    
    
 
  
 

wee as she

i. ‘
' ES

  

       
   

   

  
 

*?

  

     
     
    
     

types of players for the various roles,

oy,
i '
mk ?

5

  

in

re

   
 
     
   
   
    
 
 
 
    
  
    

eg
af

Pat.

i

#

PAM

a!
a A
,
Ps
ge
ae
*

Pied

i) ‘ . The production was made under the

3
ip

on |

. Gary Cooper, is engaging, ingenuous. |

a

é Fe Ys there anyone who has not heard of

’ s
alone can convince that it is a play

.
two races, with all

P

} 4
ee
ve
“} the repulsive wall of egotism he has
é ioe i. aa.
bape

war star and an ideal lover.

 

  
  
     
   

a

e
%

ae ; PT ay le 4
ete” a ’ ye

HE SHows ||Davidson

WO FAVORITES IN CASINO
a FILM © |

  

fle *

 

y Co oper and Nancy Carroll have
featured roles in ‘The Shopworn
1 will be shown at the

  
   

y charming and engaging. So}
tful in story, action, direction and |

itling that it is assuredly the most
likeable and genuinely heart warming
phe any to arrive here in many weeks.
_ Nancy Carroll has never been as good
is in the role of the chorus girl.
. Paul Lukas is, as

=e »
YOoOdU.
hot

ever, exceptionally
oN

~~

 

i’
eo

 

meeAbbie’s Irish Rose fy ua |.

Undoubtedly the most sensational
play that has ever come to the stage
ida recent years, Eee in the history
of the theatre. Spurned | |

at first, it has now netted for its author
a fortune that has run into many millions
of dollars. This statement of fact

 

     
      
 
      
    

4 HAROLD DAVIDSON
worth seeing. writ
Next week, by special arrangement,
this great play of the intermingling of

: ~ oe ap .
and its provoking of laughter, will be
if feoentalll by the Carroll Players at the
_ Garrick theatre. The Company is
particularly fortunate in having just the

his nearest rival, who played 4 games.
McLeod who has a total of 20.

and this gives promise of an exceptional
performance
Don’t

        
  
 
     

 

fail to plan to see ‘‘Abbie’s

 

 

Irish Rose’, and here is a bit of advice Standing
worth heeding—book your seats early We L To play
and avoid the rush. 3 J My. CoAd soy. 4 0 2
“The Old Homestead”’ is playing at| Dalhousie....... 3 1 2
the Garrick this week. NES. Techsec:<. 1 3 2
a ; »| Wanderers. ..... 0 4 2
_ “THE STREET OF ILLUSION’ Boat et
3 4 ‘ia 7 eo Goals Fouls Total
‘The sunshine and shadows that come| Dalhousie....... a yy tae
into the lives of actors are vividly de-] Y- M.C.A...... fe M tae
picted in Columbia's drama of the stage] N.S. Tech...... 5 a
entitled “‘The Street of Illusion.” The] Wanderers...... 36
picture that will commence a three Leading Scorers
_ day run beginning Monday next. 1. H. Davidson, Dal....... 43
The plot revolves around a man who] 2, J. Raymond, Tech...... 38
y found the world cold, heartless and un-| 3. E. Brown, Tech......... 32
appreciative. He becomes a monster,| 4, J. Piers, T............. 30
more animal than human and then} 5. D. McRae, Dal......... 29
awakens to the truth that life is what} 6. G. Wheeler, Wand...... 29
we makeit. 7, E. Woodworth, Y....... 21
; Neo Valli, as the leading lady} 8. W. Beazley, Y.......... 20
in a Broadway success, gives a charm-| 9, G. McLeod, Dal........ 20
ing performance. Her interest in the] 10. G. Crombie, Tech....... 17

 

- monster, her efforts to make the man
realize” his mistakes and break down

around himself are full of human
. Her love scenes with Kenneth
mson are intense, fervent and intriguing. Thomson is a typical BroadHe finds
his way into the hearts of his fair aud jences.

 

Three star Dalhousie basketball
players are out of the game for the
rest of the season as a result of
recent injuries. ;

Capt. Ilan Fraser of the intermediates is still on crutches; Captain George McLeod of the senior
team took to the “sticks” after
last Saturday's game with the
Wanderers and now Don McRae,
star center is on the crippled list
with a torn ligament in his foot
suffered in yesterday's practice.

NEXT PLEASE.

,
rif "
iy
s

direction of Erie C. Kenton, who has

eclipsed all his previous outstanding

work in this Columbia production.
ee

“ALIAS JIMMY VALENTINE”’
LATEST HAINES PICTURE

 

Parade” fame, and Tully Marshall,
are fellow safe crackers, while Lionel
Barrymore is a hard-boiled detective.

‘Alias Jimmy Valentine,’ a Metro
_Goldwyn-Mayer picture starring William Haines, opens a three day engagement at the Majestic Theatre Monday.
It is the screen translation of the worldfamous crook play of Paul Armstrong,
and was directed Me Jack Conway with
an unusual cast. ;

Haines plays the romantic young
safe cracker in his first big dramatic role,
a decided change from the wise-cracking
breezy types he has specialized in here=
tofore. Leila Hyams, known as the
most beautiful blonde in Hollywood,
is the girl whose love causes all the
complications. Karl Dane, of ‘‘Big

   

George F. Power

€igars, Cigarettes, Tobacco
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
of every Description
—Also—
Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX,

    
   
       
     
   

2 SHOPS

LORD NELSON HOTEL
23 SPRING GARDEN RD.
Pee nearest BarShop to the College.
SERVICE— Always experienced
barbers at your service.

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring. Garden Road

 

  
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
    

UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA

HUDSON’S BAY COMPANY RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP

aduates of any Canadian
illed for 1929 about May 1st.

ist, Further particulars on application,

Address, THE REGISTRAR,
University of Manitoba,
Winnipeg, Manitoba

Our High Quality Standard
makes eur Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

p24.

MADE TO-MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors

THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

Barrington and Sackville Sts

 
 
      
  
   
   
  
   
   
      
  

Scatter Sunshine

With
Greeting Cards’

Wny write a letter?
_ When a card will say it
better.

Sentiments suitable humorous—
Serious or friendly for the Birthday—Anniversary — Wedding or
Sympathy—Cute little cards to
_ tuck in the gift—a card to cement
that friendship. —

| A Card for Every Occasion
_FARRELL’S ©

fen For
_ Greeting Cards

   
   
  
  
  
   
 

   
 
    
  
 
 

  
   

  

ONE AT A TIME

The above fellowship, of the annual value of
$1,500.00, tenable at the University of Manitoba,
in any branch of pure or applied science, open to
University, will be
Applications
should be in the hands of the Registrar of Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Manitoba, by April

  
 
  
  

SF

Tops City League
-|Basketball Players. McRae
and McLeod also well up

 
  

 
  
 

HS

G

  

 

 
  
   
 
     
      
     

  

DON McRAE

_ . Harold Davidson, forward on the Tiger basketball squad, although playing
in but three league games this year tops the list of scorers according to statistics
released during the week. Davidson has a total of 43 points, five more than

Other Dal players included in the first

ten are Don McRae in fifth position who is credited with 29 points and George
According to Arabic numerals Dalhousie leads in everything but games won

and a few more tussles should correct those figures.
A summary of league facts to date is as follows:

ITIGERS DEFEAT

REDS BY 30-22

 

Staging a sensational rally in the
second half of the game the Dalhousie
senior hoopsters took victory from the
Wanderers by a 30—22 score in a
scheduled game of the City league
played in the Y gym Saturday night.

CORER

   
  
 

air Peat sea ‘

a

The Tigers as a result of their victory |
have a strangle hold on second place |

in the league standing.
against the Y in the next game in the
Studley gym will bring them up on
even terms with the league leaders
while a win for the Y men will
mean nothing more than a fade-out for
the home team.

On Saturday night the Tigers were
minus the services of Harold Davidson
and Gordon MacOdrum but while the
absence of these two stars weakened the
squad somewhat they were nevertheless
strong enough to come through with the
goods at the right time. The score was
14—14 at the end of the first half but
in the second frame the forwards began
to find the basket and at the end of the
game were eight points up on the Reds.

For the first time this season Captain
George McLeod showed the brilliant
form that he is capable of and was
high scorer for the team, shaking the
twine for a total of twelve points.
During the game he suffered an injury
to his ankle which will keep him out
of the game for the rest of the year.

Russell McLellan, Fernstein and
McRae all had a hand in the scoring
while Issy Pottie and Tom Parker were
effective at guard.

Dalhousie—McLeod 12, Mcl.ellan 6,
McRae 5, Fernstein 4, Parker 3,
Pottie, Goudge, Nickerson—30.

_ eo

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS

Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

     
  
  
 
      
         
 
      
 

 
  
 

—_———
~-_-_--——___

BIRKS

 

have for sometime enjoyed
the distinction of making
all Dalhousie Class Insignia
and trust their efforts will
merit a continuance of this
business.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Dtamond Merchanis HALIFAX

UCY PUNCH
AZZ GALORE

UNIOR

A win for Dal;

|
}

————

UNIOR

OE MILLS ORCHESTRA

 

 

 

   
  

 

February 15th, 1929

 

    
 

   

NEXT WEEK-Mon-Tue-Wed.
The drama that takes you behind the

scenes in the lives and loves of
stage—players

“The Street of Illusion”

with
Virginia Vallie and Ian Kcith
An unusual Production
You'll like it

REGULAR PRICES
COMEDY — NEWS

THIS WEEK-Thu-Fri-Sat.

Victor McLaglen
“Captain Lash’”’

with
Claire Windsor, Clyde Cook, Arthur
Stone, Jane Winton

 

BADMINTON

Dalhousie Badminton players are
going strong this year and at present
are holding down first place in the City
league. In games played last week the
college ‘“‘bird swatters’’ showed exceptionally fine form and in the sever
games played took victory in four.
The standing of the league and the]!
results of the last two tournaments | ==
follows:

 

A seaman trims his sails for a pair of trim
ankles :

COMEDY

FABLES

 

Won Lost To play
1 3 9

Dalhousie.......
St. Andrew’s.... 8 7 9
St. Luke's {azo 2 7 10
Presbyterians... 4 10 10
DALHOUSIE vs ST. ANDREW’S
Hart, Dal., defeated Sperry, St.
Andrews, 15-9, 18-8.
Tilley, Dal., defeated Powell, St.

Andrew's, 18-14, 10-15, 15-10.
Powell and A. Watson, St. Andrew's | |
defeated Tilley and Musgrave, Dal.,
15-4, 15-6.
Mahon and Sperry, St. Andrew’s,
defeated Tulloch and Clarke, Dal.,
18-14, 13-15, 15-9.

DALHOUSIE VS. ST. LUKE’S

Woodworth, St. Luke’s defeated Musgrave, Dal., 15-4, 18-16.

Hart, Dal., defeated Lucas,
Luke's 14-17, 17-15, 15-7.

Clarke and Tulloch, Dal., defeated
Morton and Wainwright, St. Luke’s
15-11, 18-15.

Fourth match postponed.

Se fe ate

Kings co-eds and Dal will meet tomorrow at noon in a scheduled game of
the Maritime Intercollegiate basketball
league. Both teams have been practicing hard ever since Xmas and a big
crowd should be on hand when the girls
start the friendly war for basketball
supremacy.

CASINO

Mien’s éatonia Shoes

$5.00 pair.

Well made shoes of good quality Scotch grain
leather with goodyear welted soles. Leather
heels. A sturdy shoe for Winter wear! Sizes
5 1/2 to 10 1/2. |

  
   
  
 

 

 

Eaton’s—Second

  
      
   
    
   
      
       
     
 

This Week N E
Thursday-Friday-Saturday aw E A ‘ © Ra
MILTON
SILLS *MARITIM E
with

 

THELMA TODD
“The Crash’”’

Next Week
Monday-Tuesday-Wed nesday

i*The Shopworn
Angel’

 

—<

— MON-TUE-WED. —
ALIAS JIMMY
VALENTINE
with

WILLIAM HAINES

REPERTORY THEATRE

— ALL NEXT WEEK —

CARROLL PLAYERS

Present

“Abie’s Irish Rose”

The most. Popular Play ever

with

NANCY CARROLL

 

 

 

      
     
        
   

  

 

   
       

GARY COOPER “POWDER _ NOW FEAYING =
MY BACK” ; a Feo tuasigc ae
If You Want To’ See Well! : ‘5 Be "lim MOTTE TTT
BEE WALLACE [Me ir [|| “ees

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y. M. C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX, N.S,

SUITS & OVERCOATS
| CONDONS

MEN’S STORE

 

Our entire Staff is waiting
to serve you

 

 

aE,

Best Sodas
Best Confectionery
Best Meals

A BARGAIN AT
$25.00

Chey. Touring

Che
Balifax Chronicle

AND
Che
Balifax Daily Star

NEWSY!
ACCURATE!
DEPENDABLE!

In good condition

Atlantic Motor Sales

Dondonald Street

The Green Lantern

 

Lorre

 

“JOIN OUR”
EASTER SUIT CLUB

Now Forming

‘“YOU NEVER KNOW
YOUR. LUCK”’

Full particulars at

Roxy’s Clothes

SHOP
154 Granville Street

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

 

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-PresC. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

 

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

 

 

 

 

      
       
   
       
   
      
     
   
  
    
 

 

 

———————

Communication
with the large University Centres

We are pleased to advise you on the proper
p suit for yourself from our latest arrivals
Fe from Montreal and Toronto

IO% discount to Students

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

 

 

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

eee eee

Don’t Miss The

- SENIOR

AT
The Dal Gymnasium
MONDAY
Feb. 18 — 1929
AT 8.15 P. M.

C 4
aie ea fN

—

 

 

 
  

WELL GRUB
CRUMPTIOUS DECORATIONS
TUNNING WOMEN

ENIOR

 

ee et

 

SE sia

 

 
