Li

+t Shed
T Pete List

 

fe
oe Tis h care in. er and
 English—Cleveland, J. H.

ie _High Honours in Physics—
2) eae C.A. |

aes Pi ehactien: Diplomas (in ord“eof merit):

nGveat: Distinction —Egan, H
GF. ; Archibald, ES JS y7

2 ake ng ae oe a CHE
ster aes Aquinas),
| M. ube pice
oe ‘ >; \Dargie, 1Za
Sa bs ‘Manuel, Beth;)
Intosh, D. L.; Balan, Dorothy. ); (Sister: ‘Teresa Mary;
= We febater, ‘M. Dorothy); (Long:
4 ard, Gladys 1 AY POEs: E. B,)

   
  
  
 

  

: nes “ie Undergraduate | Scholarships,
Bee ee Oe eet:
os First Year—Bruce Scholar= | ae ship: ($255) —F erguson, G. A,
aia & | aoe 0) “Campbell Scholarship:
y ae — Kerr, I. Margaret.
ee e ei ouas Scholarship: ($100) }
| ae ath « —Fraser, Mary L. ‘First. Unire ay ~ versity” ‘Scholarship: ($100) =):
Bs fe | Ferguson, Margaret J. T.. Sech}). ond Jiversity Scholarship: a
100) “Murphy, GH

: 5 ee Sai Vens—-Allan Pollok
1s Scholarship: and Jotham’ Blan
   
 
 
  
   

wee Be ‘Re tay Fergus-}
peomieegel Club]

co ‘Third ese cichald Schola ra ship: ($100)—Clark, Marie L.

(By preference). Khaki Scholar
ship: ($100)—Ross D. M. (By

scholastic standing). Commer; cial Club Scholarship: ($100)—
ae Archibald, D. F. Ross Stewart
Smith Scholarship: ($75)— Manuel, Louise M. Hugh Graeme
Fraser Memorial Prize: ($25)—
Beazley, W. B.

Fourth Year — GovernorGeneral's Medal—Herald, C. A.
Avery: Prize—Egan, H. J. Eddy
Resident Fellowship — Not
Awarded.

Special Subjects—Waverly
Prize: ($55)—Longard, Annie
E. Katherine Buttenshaw

Prize—Walker, H. Barbara.

  
     
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
     
    
    

The Convocation Exercises
will commence this afternoon at 3.00 p. m.

bs - D. A. MAHON

im who graduates in Commerce this

year. For the past two years he

en Business Manager of the
ze a position which he has
a i Sree, S

(Fer-|

(Mc=} |

| Faculty of Medi- ;

_}724, of Philadelphia, Grand Prae‘tor of Sixth Chapter, Egerton E.

‘Hickson, Beta Omega, ‘Toronto,
P21,
Beta Omega 25, assisted by ten

Ei ¥ mi ~ chard. Bursary: shared equally}

 

ay es

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MAY 16th, 1933.

 

Bi ra EGAN

 

cine ©.

{ . 7 - ~ ‘
~aig

 

Satrercity Medal i in. Nt Meriicine

|—Not awarded.

The Dr.,Clara Olding Prize—
McKean, H. R..

—Dockerty, N..-B.

~The Dr. W. H. Hattie tires | in
‘Medicine McKean, H.-R.
The Andrew. James Cowie,

‘Die Memorial. Medal—MeKean, H, R.

The Ross Stemart Smith Prize
—Not awarded.

The Dr. Lindsay Prize—Tulk,
G. D. ;

The Dr. Cameron
Horowitz, A. S.

The R. J. Bean Prize in Histology and Embryology—G. V.
Parsons.

Prize—

 

Faculty of Law

The winners of the Carswell
Prizes and other prizes in the
Faculty of Law are the following :—

Robert T. Donald was the
winner of the University Medal
in Law and shared the Carswell
Prize for third year with Julius
Rosenblum. In the second year
‘Michael Greenberg was awarded
the Carswell essay prize for
highest standing and J. B. McEvoy was the winner of the
same prize in first year.

Samuel Margolian was awarded the Carswell Essay Prize for
first year students and Roy D.
Duchemin won the McDonald
prize for best improvement made
in second year.

 

Can. American

Trade

The conversations which took
place between President Roosevelt and Premier Bennett last
month, regarding trade negotiations between Canada and the
United States seem unlikely to
lead to a successful outcome.
Mr. Bennett is prepared to offer
tariff reductions in chemicals,
electrical apparatus, and certain
iron and steel machinery in
exchange for free trade in cattle,
copper, fish and timber. But
Mr. Bennett, whatever concessions he may be prepared to
offer, is opposed to the modification of the Ottawa Treaties,
while it appears from well-informed sources that the United
States will insist upon such
modification before entering into
a trade agreement.

  

Delta Tau Goes
enterpanene |

a 
On the 6th of May, 1933,
Delta’ Tau Fraternity was in=
stalled into Sigma Chi as Gamma
Rho chapter, making the ninety-.
fourth chapter, and the third in
Canada, |

Sigma Chi was founded at
Miami University, Oxford, Ohio,
on the 28th day of June, 1855.

| Delta Tau was granted its petition on Feb. 25th, 1933.

The installation. ceremonies
began on Friday, May 5th, at
three. o’clock and ended the
following evening with a formal
banquet at. the Nova Scotian
Hotel. Chester W. Cleveland,
Kappa Kappa, Illinois ’20, officiated as. Installing Officer, assisted by “Edwin F.. Parker,
Alpha XI, Kansas, '30, of Bos
} ton, Grand Praetor of the First
; Province,’ in which Gamma Rho};

is situated. The other installing officers. were Harold M,
Gilmore, Phi Phi (Pennsylvania)

‘and J. Beverley Milner,

members of the active Canadian. chapters. who attended the

installation.
The Dr.John F. ‘Black Prize

ma Rho were most encouraging.
Harold’ M. Gilmore, on behalf

of the Grand Council of Si igma |;

Chi warmly welcomed ihe new}
chapter, followed by remarks
of congratulations from their
Grand Praetor. The welcomes
from the active and alumni
chapters were made by Holder R.
Collins "34, of Beta Omega.
Toronto, and Percy F. Mullinar,
Beta Chi (Emory) '23.

Installing officer, Chester W.
Cleveland then presented the
Charter to Gamma Rho and
Kenneth W. Mahen, First Consul of the Chapter responded;
Prof. W. P. Copp tendered his
response on behalf of the Alumni.

The addresses to Gamma Rho
began with very elevating and
sincere remarks from Col A. A.
Sharpe, followed by Dr. Joseph |
C. Nate, Alpha Tota (Illinois)
Grand Tribune of Sigma Chi, |‘
who pointed out what the phrase,
‘“T am a Sigma Chi, sir” should
mean to every member of that
fraternity.

Hector McInnes, chairman of
the Board of Governors of Dalhousie, addressed the new chapter and the fraternity in general,
and after giving a brief resume
of the historic background of

Dalhousie, stated he was glad!

that a fraternity claiming the
membership of such distinguish- | ‘
ed men and an organization that
instilled spirit into men to travel
so far for an installation. Professor Macneill, Registrar, warmly greeted Sigma Chi on behalf
of the Faculty of Dalhousie.
The addresses were brought to a
close with an installation ceremony by Rev. George Caleb
Moore, Kappa Kappa, Illinois,
‘01, Pastor of Madison Avenue,
Baptist
beautifully pointed out the significance of the white cross and
badge of Sigma Chi,

The first meeting of the chapter was held at their house, 207
South Park Street, Sunday afternoon. New officers were elected
and James S. Taylor was appointed to represent Gamma
Rho at the Sigma Chi convention to be held at New Orleans
in June.

—_—_6-2-o—____

Those who have few wants

have not many deficiences,

The banquet was attended by the C
some very prominent Sigs, and
their remarks extended to Gam
The Committee
Of Nine

Work of Body Outlined
in Brief

To most Dalhousians of recent years, the Committee of
Nine is but a name. To those
wii were students at the time
of its inception it has a very deep
significance which, perhaps, cannot be thoroughly appreciated
by those not directly involved
in the circumstances which led
to its organization. However,
as all succeeding years s have reaped the benefits of its work, it is
only proper that they should
be made to understand, as clearly as possible, just what functions this body has performed
and still continues to perform
when occasion demands.

‘Tn full, the name of this body
is ‘‘The Committee of Nine for

the promotion of the common}!s the winner of the (
interests of the Staff, Students,| General's’ Medal.
Alumni of Dalhousie Uni-| entered Dalhousie in
name conveys Sydney

and

versity. This

Medallist |

 

_ C. A, HERALD

Mr. Ce A. Herald, of Sydney,

Governor:
Mr. Herald
"29. from
with fine

Academy a

some idea of the general inten- eee si record and a scholz iT
tion which prompted its organi- ship.

zation in 1926. In more detail

the Comniittee of Nine has the] favorite s
its}and Physics, and is graduating

following functions under
constitution:

1. In its judicial capacity,
ommittee shall be the final
authority in the interpretation
and construction of regulations
regarding student activities, and
shall determine the application
gauch regulations in particular
Cases.

II. In its legislative capacity; the Committee shall make
and from time to time vary or
rescind regulations governing
student activities in the matters heretofore regulated by
the Senate.

Ill. In its advisory capa|city, the Committee shall make
recommendations as it may deem
expedient for the promotion of
the interests of the University
and may act in an advisory ca
pacity in any matters referred
to it.
IV. In its administrative

capacity, the Committee may
render assistance in any matters
referred to by any one’ of the
constituent organizations.

The Committee consists of
three representatives appointed
by the Council of the Students,
three appointed by the Senate, |
and three appointed by
Alumni Association. The  officers are the President of the
University as ex-officio chairman, having the right to enter
into all discussions, but not to
ote, and a Secretary. Meetings may be held at the call
of the Chairman or upon the
written. application of at least
two of its members. Six members constitute a quorum but
there must be at least two members present, representing each
of the three constituent groups
unless the members present, by a
unanimous vote, agree to proceed notwithstanding, provided
always that all groups are represented. Members vote as

Church, New York, who individuals and, in the event of

a tie, the resolution is declared
lost and may be submitted to a
later meeting.

The significance of such a
body, having power of supervision over all aes non-academic activities, must be clearJy understood. Before it came
into existence, all matters concerning the conduct of such activities, which were not clearly

provided for under the powers}.

granted to the Council of the
Students in its constitution, had
to be referred to the Senate for
final approval. This either nec
Few are those who are endow-| cessitated a special meeting of

ed at the same time with good
fortune and good sense.

(Continued on page 12),

the! 1933 ‘ch

No. 21

      
 
 

Class Exercises

Held in Gym

—-
Yesterday afternoon the regular Class Exercises were held.
After the planting of the Class
tree, the graduates and their
friends went to the Gymnasium
where the Valedictory was delivered by E. B. Rogers. The
Class Historian, J. Flint Cahan
then recounted the deeds and
achievements of the Classe -This
was followed by the Class Prophesy by Miss Betty March. Dr.
Bell then presented the Malcolm
Honor Awards; those receiving
this award being Walter. MacKenzie, Charles Anderson and
George Thompson. The Athletic, Literary, and Debating
‘D's... were. then _ presented.
George Thompson, Class President, closed the ceremonies with
a. few brief remarks in which
he. thanked. the Committee in
charge of the Convocation Week
Program -for, the great. work
which they had done and done
so. well.. The Committee are as
follows: Laura Marshall, Marion

At Dalhousie Mr. Herald| Merten, Lib S Saunderson, Betty
has followed a- course in his| March, Ev Bishop, Turner
subjects, Mathematics| 0. Brien, Lou Christie,. Charlie

with high honors in Physics.

 

Ping-Pong, Tennis
Badminton

When the Physical Director
of Dalhousie University returned
to his office one morning. last
March, after an absence of
several days, the old Ping Pong
table had vanished. An identical table was discovered shortly
afterwards at the end of the
hall inside the Ladies’ Residence.
Need one say any more about
the hold this most recent of
Dalhousie’s athletic activities
has already taken on the student
mind and hand?

Organised: late in the winter
the Dalhousie Ping Pong quartet or sextet tied with the Y.
M. C. A. for first place in the
Halifax City Ping Pong League.
Had the count been by matches,
instead of by points for events
won, Dalhousie would have been
undisputed champion of the
three clubs in the league. Leo
Green, Dalhousie captain and
ampion, went through
the season without a defeat.
Eric Woodworth, leading Y. M.
“. A. ping pong player, ranks
Green higher than himself.

Badminton a pastime in
which young men and young
women can participate without
appealing to the primeval instincts of grabbing, clutching,
which are the normal concomitants of the 100% popular sport
of dancing. Badminton symbolizes and forecasts the proper
role of the two sexes, as laid
down in the writings of the
patristic fathers. In a Mixed
Doubles game the woman’s home
the net, which she guards
from right to left and back
again, always oscillating round
the point of female equilibrium,
which the right front, her
nose poised two inches underneath the net. With deft and
nimble fingers she tips the shuttle
just one-tenth of an inch, never
any more, over the net, or snaps
it down flat on the other side of
the net, if the opponent fries a
drop-shot on either side of the
court. The male—swift, dignifed and strong—waits until his
exasperated adversaries, in order
to elude his helpmate’s vigilance,
hit the shuttle high over her
head, when, with aggressive masculine impetus, he kills it for

(Continued on page 12),

is

is

is

Clarke and George Thompson.

 

Honorary Degrees
to be Conferred

Dalhousians will learn with a
great deal of pleasure and ‘satisfaction that three willing benefactors of our University are to
be aptly honored with the Degree
of Doctor of Laws, during the
Convocation exercises.

The three Nova Scotians to
be honored are: Dr. Archibald
MacMechan, Mr. Dougald*Macgillivray, and Judge George Patterson. ;

Dr. MacMechan is well known
to every Dalhousian and needs
no introduction. He has given
willingly of his time and talent
to many College enterprises
The columns of the Gazette
have often been graced with the
astutenessof hispen. For many
years Dr. MacMechan was head
of the department of English
and this pronouncement a
fitting recognition of his endeavors.

Dougald Macgillivray is a
keen friend of Dalhousie students. His gifts to the Library
in the form of books, have been
many and munificent.
staunch supporter of everything
Dalhousian, Mr. M: icgillivray

1S

may be assured his distinction
meets with the approval of
everyone associated with the
University.

Judge George Patterson, of
New Glasgow, is perhaps, to
Dalhousie students, the least

known of these three gentlemen.
His recognition is none the less
noteworthy, for those who know
him well are aware of the bountiful and generous gifts which he
has given to his Alma Mater and
also his dislike for publicity.
The conferring of these honorare degrees upon these gentlemen, is Dalhousie’s method of
saying, -‘thank you” and it
crystalizes the esteem in which
each is held.
ela is eee an eas

Seminars: At an _ unofficial
meeting of a number of the
Commerce Graduating Class the
other day it was pointed out and
agreed that one of the most
beneficial parts of the course
were the unofficial discussions
and seminars held by the department. This idea might well
be adapted in many other classes
as it seems to have proved
extremely valuable,

 
  

  

Pe 7 son ahs

 
 

letter | rom eee hoe Seo“tian, Sho BNea ?

oq is’ very interesting to note

 
 
  

dng to ‘make the public believe
3 that 1 e United States is ‘““Am
< ~ erica.” ’ Jt would be interesting
pice to knov ~ what legal right the
_-U. S. has to the sole use of

| Pole “ America’ as meaning their
| Is the name of conti* , America being shang
 
 

—

cere "2 oe same paper quickly folNe with a timely editorial,
4 in which: it draws attention to
: a protest. “Canada, it must
be admitted, has been curiously
i complacent in this matter. Not
so the South American republics,
oe ‘that have protested repeatedly
Pose against a practice that is likely
: i ‘ eae continue,” it concludes.
Aree -Very recently a provincial}
paper printed an editorial under
- the heading ‘‘Why America Ab andoned the Gold Standard.”
_ Pick up a newspaper any day,
=] 4 Canadian op ©. -S, or. -British
or foreign, and find scores of
such glaring references. We

 
 

  

= Times” is no less eager
, -, than “Liberty’”” to encourage}
the practice, and we single this
_ paper out especially because of
ee large Ca n circulation.
Radio| aad theatre lend their
weight in the attempt.

company attempts to
laugh down the attitude of the
former. “It is extremely diffi- cult to work up sympathy with
the curious attitude of mind
- which eats out its heart because instead of writing ‘‘ United
States of America” long es= _ tablished customs writes simply
“America.” But we beg to diff= er. It is BY NO MEANS the
- same as shortening ‘“ Dominion
| *.. “of Canada” to ‘“Canada’’, be= cause IN THAT CASE IT
x AFFECTS NO OTHER NATION. But here we have the
spectacle of one country, the
third in size of American nations, making effective attempts
Ee tO monopolize the name of two
. continents which contain twenty
or thirty nations. And strange_ ___ ly, both Canada and Brazil, largser ~nations, stand meekly by,
especially Canada, and let it go
on; indeed, encourage tt!
is, ‘What i is the matter anyway?
— Do Canadians wish to lose their
- _ identity completely, in the eyes
of world nations?
____ The second newspaper rambles
| curiously on: “Nobody dreams
of writing ‘The Union of Socialee ist Soviet Republics’; they simply write’ sno UL S. S/R.” or
“Russia,” and let it go at that,
and everyone knows what is
meant.” But once more we
- imsist that such practice does
not compare with the impudent
_ attempted monopoly we refer to,
the one which is proving most
___ detrimental to Canada, especially in other nations. Not so
much among ourselves, except
_ that it is rapidly cultivating a
_ marked inferiority complex on
our part. But we hear, in West
Indian and South American
ee oy countries, in European and Asia_ tic nations, continual and ignor- ant, and most grating, references
to “' America. Those other na: _ tions are growing to believe that
mie continent is composed of a
: = of Yankees and no one
Be a else; make no mistake by doubt:
ae this! aoa
The same ‘newspaper continues in scoffing vein, pointing out
3 how world statesmen utilize the
__ word, and attempt to thus justify
it, We most strongly protest and
* Sein that it certainly is no
__ credit t to those statesmen nor to
& - the nations they represent. In
  
  
  

7 bet er A
Did j yo . ¥ 2

mee of the habit i in- | |
ge e of the term Wess

it “Liberty” is one of that| |
yhoo type of United States
“ations which is endeavour-] |p.

pier,

- must point out that the “ New}

_ The contemporary local news-|

    
   
     
   
 
       
 
   
    
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
     
   
      

MISS KATHLEEN NAPIER

Next year’s president of Shirreff Hall is Miss Kathleen Naof Campbellton, N. B.
Miss Napier attended Campbellton High School, and came to
Dalhousie in the fall of 1929.
Miss Napier will graduate in
Arts next spring, being out of
college for a year on account of

sickness. Kay has taken an May.

active interest in all the activities of the student body, especially in the doings at Shirreff
Hall. Being elected as President
of Shirreff Hall is an acknowledgement of the esteem with
which she is held by the girls.

 

Delta Gamma Votes Against Hazing.—The Delta Gamma
Society at their last meeting on
Mar. 24th adopted by a majority
vote the resolution that hazing
should be abolished at Dalhousie.

Professor John T. McQuarrie,
who has been Assistant Professor
of law at the Dalhousie Law
School for the past three years,
has resigned and much to the
disappointment of his many
friends is to take up residence
in New Glasgow where he will
enter the law firm of McQuarrie
and McQuarrie.

fore sailing from Halifax for
Europe, was questioned regarding the War Debt situation.
‘Canada is not vitally interested,” he said, ‘‘as she owes America nothing.”’ The largest unit
of America owes America nothing!

“Bunk, poppy-cock, and fiddle
sticks! Tell a man in Dartmouth that he has no Harbor
because it is Halifax Harbor
right up to his door, and he will
casually glance in the direction
of the N.S. Hospital to see if the
keepers are coming. It is not
a mark of either inferiority or
“gall” to write simply ‘‘America’’ when tt cannot be misunderstood.” ‘This is the height of
absurdity. We consider this a
most disgraceful attitude for
any paper to take, if it considers
itself worthy of being taken
seriously, and considered a real
servant of the people.

We have attempted to point
out this glaring weakness in the
everyday conversation of, more
than likely, YOU, one of our
readers. We emphasize that it
is more than a mere careless
verbal contraction. Jt is growing
to be a most harmful frame of
mind on our pari: andi ts
obliterating Canada and twentyother nations in ihe eyes of the
world. We do not agree that
“nothing can be done to rectify
it.” Public schools might well
take up the matter and insist
strictly on the correct interpretation and usage of the term.
A wide publicity campaign might
well be undertaken, by Cana
       
  
 

name, and by some Dominionwide magazine of such wide scope
and vision as ‘‘Maclean’s,”’ in
order to bring the matter forcibly to the attention of every
Canadian before untold harm is
wrought to greater and lesser

    
   
     
    
    

¢ leed, a foromibe ago, our own nationg of America.
i Dominior ee ot age inister, be- 4

fer . ee a.
ee ae is ea ‘

Beak ore 5 RG Ee BE

May

May

May

May

May

May

May
May
May

May

June

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

 

Mistakes
Suits to measure may now be
ordered in Russia.
plaints are published in the Russian press that the front and
back of a suit are frequently]
made of different material and
and contrasting colors.—Montreal Star.

dian newspapers worthy of the]

10

11

12

15

16

17
18
19

25

15°

30)

15

28

~~ =

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   
 
 
   
   

Extracts From a Diary

by ‘ ‘Arts 733.”

Finished exams. What a wonderful foal: Jusi like
getting out of a dentist’s chair. Had a bottle of beer
with a very prominent graduate, only one_ bottle,
mirabtie dictu.

Danced at Laura Marshall’s. Amusing evening, remarkable sobriety. No one wanted to play bridge or
reconstruct jig-saw a Received three letters, all
contained this phrase,—‘‘We have no vacancies at the
present moment, but have placed your application on
file.” Someone should be able to do a good business

in printing rejection slips for business houses as well as|

magazine editors.
Eaton’s still sell flannel nightshirts, I wouldn’t have
believed it possible. Put lactic acid in the milk to make
it sour, don’t tell George. Doug Murray would make a
good auctioneer. Asa polka dancer, Charlie Clarke is a
marvelous stenog —-hit and miss, you know. So sorry
I don’t live in Bedford, their transport vehicles are just
too comfortable, and fast—ohmigosh, I'll be seasick
for a week.
Why don’t they run street-cars on the Dutch Village
Road? My poor pocket-book. Some couples seemed
to prefer the ‘‘murmuring pines and the hemlocks”’ to a
polished hardwood floor, a ‘‘back to nature’? movement,
I guess. ‘Received a beautifully illustrated folder today
—‘‘How to sell the Ladies’ Home Journal in Eight Easy
Lessons.”
It’s a wonder that we weren’t subjected to a medical
exam before we were permitted to dance at the President’s:
CuW. S.— "You're a very nice dancer, Miss Vernon.”
D. V.—"“Oh you're not bad yourself. oe
Lib (aside)—‘‘It would be more in his line to compare
her to a Greek goddess.”
Per ardua ad aquam, 1 don’t believe that there is one
Tory on this road, the government’s rule is “The
amount of good highway varies inversely as the number
of Grits who live a’ongit.”” Cheersand groans. There
was merriment and music. and much laughter, but, lo,
in the midst of the multitude appeared a man holding
aloft a message and shouting—*‘News of battle, I have
brought it.” Thenwas the tumult stilled, but only for
a moment, then it rose again, this time but in a threatening roar, like the tide of the ocean, and there was wailing
and gnashing of teeth, and the women tore their hair,
and rent their garments asunder.
How do they expect a man to dance all night, and walk
the streets all day with only one pair of shoes? If I ever
hear the expression, “Sorry, not today,’ again, I shall
have hysterics: If I had an aeroplane now. Kipling
never saw Halifax from the air, but he couldn’t have
described it better if he had. A good thing to remember
—it isn’t wise to tickle the young lady when you're in an
open Moth.
I don’t think that Class Thirty-three’s tree will ever
grow into a forest. Some people should learn to be a
little more expert in-wielding a shovel, they may do it
for aliving soon. ‘The quality of mercy is not strained,
it droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven,” a lady gave
me 50c. today for changing a flat tire. Incidentally,
Mr. President, my B. A. degree will be very useful in
a job like that.
All the grads were together for the first and last time.
Gowns are wonderful things, for polishing shoes. I
wonder if I’ll ever be able to wear a hood with all the
colours of the rainbow. No time to make puns but
Betty March says, ‘“‘Now you are an Artistic bachelor
you have been raised above the common herd of eligibles.”’
Slept all day.

Ditto
Only four more firms in town, and ten more to write to.
Then I'll be able to say quite honestly that I couldn’t
get a job.
Keep the home fires burning, Mother,
‘Cause I'll soon be back again.
225,000 young men and women are leaving schools and
colleges in Canada to look for jobs this year, and there
are only 800,000 unemployed now:
This hoeing turnips is an awful task. Every time I
kill a potato bug I think of Ron Hayes.
Wish Sir John A. were here now, he’d find jobs for us,
even if he had to get us all elected to Parliament in order
to pass the legislation. Wouldn’t Evatt make a great
Senator. Turner could be Gentleman Usher of the
Black Rod, Polly could blacken the rod.
Hay allin, ’mallintoo. Talking politics in the blacksmith shop, I hope that I never start chewing tobacco.
These unemployment relief camps are great things.
With 20c. a day I feel as rich as Croesus. I don’t have to
work very hard either, my B. A. degree got me the
position of asst. deputy assistant storeman.
Had a letter from Murray Macneill today. He says
that they are going to give free postgraduate courses
to indigent members of Class ‘33.
Signed up again, guess I'll try for an M. A. now.
ray for Dal!

Hur
Will Happen— (2)

(3)
man.

(4) The
Frenchman.

(5) The concentration
German.

(6) The hustle of a Yankee.

(7) The hospitality of an
Arab.

(8) The patriotism of a postWar Italian.

The coloring of a Dane.
The humor of an IrishBut com
spontaneity of a

of a

. (9) The honor of an English- A noted British*actress, in the|™an. f
‘London Sunday Express,” out-|. Well, all we can add is that

lines what, in her opinion, should
constitute the nine features of

he should have the profile of
Ross Morrison and the dancing

her “ideal man” ability (?) of Charlie Clarke
(1) The physique of a New|and he'll be a pretty good fellow
Zealander. all round,

  

Sends Message

 

GEORGE THOMPSON

who is the Freshmen Representative
on the Students’ Council next year

Stupendous changes have
taken place in the attitude of
the student towards the timehonored practice of “initiation.”’
Gone are the days of “hazing”’
and ‘‘initiation”’ in its old rough
and tumble form. Progress is
shown in the minds of the student body. No longer is it the
desire of the initiators to ridicule
and chastize the freshmen, rather it is to welcome and introduce
them to the university and its
life. Thus initiation in its most
valuable form is coming to the
fore.

The outcrys, newspaper stories
and ballyhoo were loud and long
about the initiations of the freshmen class at Dalhousie last fall.
Much of this ‘‘noise’’ was greatly over-emphasized, because it
made a good ‘news catch.”
Such stories will have no opportunity to arise next fall, because initiation plans at Dalhousie have undergone a great
change, due to the acceptance
by Class ’86—the initiators of
Class ’87—of the splendid proposal for future initiations made
by Dr. Hugh P. Bell, Honorary
President of Class '36.

The details of the plan have
been placed in the hands of a
capable committee’ under the
leadership of Dr. Bell. The
plan in general is to form Class
"37 into a well organized group
by means of athletic contests,
interclass debates, a Glee Club
Show and everything they can
do.

In the past at Da'housie, the
Freshman Representative was,
of necessity, at swords points
with the Sophomores, the
itiators. In the future the situuation will be greatly changed,
for the Freshman  Representatives will be able to cooperate
in every way with the Sophomores in their initiation plans.

One should also notice that

ithe Delta Gamma Society, who

initiated the freshettes of Da!housie, have decided to discontinue the practice of initiation.

A distinctive badge will be
worn by all members of Class
37, so that they may distinguish |‘
themselves from the other students in the university, and also
that they will be able more easily

to become acquainted with their|‘

fellow-classmates.

So, send your sons and daughters to Dalhousie and they will
be welcomed in the true Dalhousian spirit.

Yours, as Freshman Representative,
Geo. C. Thompson.

rrr

“A requirement that the applicant for admission to the
Freshman class must write in a
good, legible hand, a three hundred word letter couched in correct idiomatic English, would,
of honestly enforced, depopulate the colleges of this country.”

Horace Greeley, the epic hero
of American journalism had
probably the world’s worst handwriting. Only one man in the
Tribune offices could read it,
an old typesetter who had for
thirty years set up Mr. cere s
daily editorial.

in-|

May 16th, 1933

My Impressions of

Dalhousie
Arthur as SWranion:

I should like to give first my
impressions of the situation and
buildings of Dalhousie. My first
view of the University Campus
was rather impressive. It looked like a large and well-kept
park with stately buildings in
the background. The newness
and. severity of the buildings
appeared strange at first; and
the Arts building still does,
accustomed as I was to the
rambling buildings of McGill,
hallowed with age and partially
obscured by a screen of trees.
This novelty soon wore off,
however, and I was able to
appreciate better the general
effect. What I was not able to
appreciate were the various unpaved paths on the campus.
Many was the time in wet
weather when they were seasot
mud. The only part fit to
walk on was the grass which
we were requested to refrain from
using.

Before going any further |
should like to air one of my pet
grievances, which is the inclusion
of Quebec and Ontario in the
general name ‘‘ Upper Canada,”’
a habit very prevalent in Nova
Scotia; notice I did not say the
Maritimes. That this grievance is not merely personal is
shown by the feelings of other
Montrealers on the subject. We
have always felt that we were
quite distinct from Upper Canada, which according to history
only comprises Ontario, and are
proud of the distinction. The
two provinces are very different
in feelings and outlook and do
not always appreciate being classed as One.

The system of studies here
is very much like that at McGill
and sO was very easy to get
accustomed to. What impressed me very favourable, however,
is the opportunity the student
has for a close personal contact
with the professors. The staff
is for the most part very approachable and takes a sympathetic interest in any student who

is willing to go half way. That,
in my opinion, is one of the
great advantages in a small

(using the word relatively) university and | think that the
staff and student body at Dalhousie appreciate the opportunity which has been given to
them. The staff especially does
all in its power to assist towards
a better understanding by informal meetings, etc.

What appealed to me _ particularly about Dalhousie and
in fact Halifax in general is the
informality of the people. This
is greatly appreciated by out of
town students with few friends
as the natural feeling of strangeness due to the new surroundings
soon wears off.On the other
hand there is none of the false
spirit of back-slapping on the
Dalhousie campus and one does
not feel the necessity of saying

‘hullo” to everyone. The whole
spirit of the place strikes me as a
happy mean between complete
aloofness on the one hand and
‘collitch spirit’’ on the other,
keeping more to the English
tradition, than to the American.
Possibly the best example of this
is King’ s College with its division
of men’s residences into separate
houses.

There is another thing in
which, in my opinion, King’s
Cc ‘ollege functions as an integral
whole. One of the finest examples of this is the Haliburton
Club to which every King’s
student belongs. Although this
is caused by the difference in the
size of the student bodies, it is
more noticeable than the differfence would warrant.

There are so many societies,
fraternities and clubs at Dalhousie that of necessity, the
students. are broken up into
many small groups. For a college the size of Dalhousie this
seems rather a pity as so much
more could be accomplished by
the students acting in unison
rather than small groups acting
in opposition to each other. A
few questions such as_ hotel

(Continued on page 11)

 
 
      
  

  
 
 
 

na hy
we fi ~~

pty : be
ere

. ‘
, Te

fi «
a .

™~

on

_ May 16th, 1938

 

¥

MT he Health of the
Student Body

 

The results of the medical ex
amination of the students of the}

University have just been compiled and tabulated. Before
commenting either on the previous health of the students or
their present condition, a few
remarks are in order concerning
the Students’ Health Service.

All of the students were given
a similar examination which consisted of a general examination,
blood pressure determination,
the gross and microscopic examination of the urine, the examination of sight, hearing, the
teeth, and throat. In addition
to this the examination of the
chest and heart was supplemented by the use of the fluoroscope.
Through the use of the fluoroscope one active case of tuberculosis was determined, quite a
number of latent or healed tuberculosis, and many non-tubercular lesions of the lungs, most
of which were old pleurisies.
X-ray photographs were taken
where needed, in most cases being used to confirm the fluoroscope. _ The consultation service, which is maintained at the
Health Centre from 12-1 daily,

was well patronized, as_ there
_ were more than 250 students

pa. %
+ °

   
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
  
  
    
   
   
   
     
 
    
  

rn.
agen «

y

+

ing
=ae

i ho oa

ry
7

a

SSS SS

a3

_ winner of] the Morse Essay Prize
which was awarded for the first

taking advantage of this service.
All of the students having defects were interviewed by the
medical director, were told of

their defects and advised as to

treatment. At the discretion
of the medical director quite a
number of cases were referred
for special advice, most of these
were referred in connection with
‘diseases of the lungs, heart, nose,
throat, skin, and several orthopaedic cases. Over 300 of the
students were interviewed in
this connection.

All of the students were offered vaccination against smallpox, and also the susceptibility
test for scarlet fever and diphtheria. Very few took advantage of the opportunity to be revaccinated, although most of the
students in the University have
been vaccinated against smallpox more than five years ago,
and consequently their immunity
towards that disease is getting
low. It was only in the medical
faculty and the faculty of dentistry that vaccination was requested. A short series of lectures in personal hygiene was
started in the gymnasium at
Studley by Dr. H. H. Gosse.

The attendance, however, was

(Continued on page 10)

 

 

Wins Essay Prize

 

 

     
   
     
 
  
  
  
  

 
  

="

___ MISS EIRENE WALKER,

  

 

 

Passing Mourned

 

 

THE LATE JUDGE W. J. O’HEARN

With the passing of Judge
O’Hearn, Dalhousie lost a brilliant alumnus and a true friend.

Judge O'Hearn' graduated
from the Dalhousie Law School
in 1900. Since his graduation
his success in the legal profession
has been outstanding. He carried on a law practice for twentyfive years, and was made Attorney-general for the province
of Nova Scotia in 1922. In
recognition of his conscientiousness and sense of justice, he was
granted, in 1929, a judgeship
in the County Court.

Judge O'Hearn particularly
endeared himself to the law
students of Dalhousie, being a
lecturer in Crimes from 1920
to 1925, inclusively.

The faculty and student body
of Dalhousie University take
this opportunity of extending
their sincere sympathy to his
wife and family.

———. = — or 2

EIRENE WALKER.

The Morse Essay Prize for an
essay on “Dead vs. Living
Books” was awarded to Miss
Eirene Walker.

Eirene, as Vice-President of
the S. C. M. visited Buffalo in
1982; has represented France
in the Model League of Nations;
and debated for her class in the
Bennett Shield competition.

DOROTHY REDMOND.

Miss Redmond is this year’s
winner of the James DeMille
prize for Prose, thus bringing
to a suitable close her active
scholastic career. Dorothy won
a scholarship her freshette year;
has taken a keen interest in
Midlothian, being both secretary and treasurer; and debated
on the Intercollegiate Debating Team of 1931, and in Sodales.
Dorothy was President of Delta
Gamma for the past year; has
been Librarian at Shirreff Hal’;
and Vice-President of Alpha
Gamma Delta Fraternity for
1932-33.

Congratulations, Dorothy.

“To live in a modern world
and be ancient; to live in a humdrum world and be a knight;
to life in a gabby world and have
a secret—all this is possible.
It is the essence of fraternalism
that it does its best to make it
possible. An illustrious name is
only a beginning. When the
password is given and the inner
door swings back, it is upon a
world as different from the world
outside as ingenuity can make
it. .It will continue to swing as
long as life is drab enough for
grown men to play Indian.’’—
Charles Merz.

alhousie Gazette

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

The Valedictory

Class Nineteen Hundred and Thirty-three.

 

 

 

With mingled feelings of happiness and sorrow, triumph and
disappoiniment and anxiety, We have come 10 the close of our college
careers. We have reachedaturn tn the road of life—one that we have
antictpated long, one that we shall ever remember. It is fitting that
we pause at this point to consider in retrospect our years at Dalhousie,
and to think gravety of the days that are to come.

A few of us entered college at the height of an-era of unparallelied
economic prosperity; most of us first came to Dalhousie a few weeks
before the bubble of the get-rich-quick mania burst; some entered later,
When world economy Was tn the doldrums. We have lived our college
life in the shadow of the depression; and, in consequence, we have lost
the company of some of our classmates who have been forced to drop
out. But what has our university experience given to those of us who
have been able to complete our courses? Probably our answers to thai
question vary Widely.

We came to Dalhousie from many parts of these maritime provinces, from other. parts of Canada, from the great American republic,
from distant continents and from the islands of the sea. We came with
different backgrounds, with different ideals, and with different purposes in our minds. Many of us sought an education which would
fit us for careers in chosen fields: others of us came in perplexity, hoping that we would find somerhing to which we might be willing to devote our lives: still others came because it was the thing to do: not a few
were autracted by the gatety of the collegiate social whirl: and a smalt
group came in search of truth.

In this College by the Sea our personalities have been subjected
to many new influences: here we have had to adjust ourselves to a new
aimosphere. And adjusiment has not always been easy, for we were
possessed of prejudices that were deeply embedded and correspondingly
difficult to dislodge. Perhaps we have not been successful in throwing
off the fetters that cramped our minds, but we have at least become conscious of them. The fixed ideas and strong opinions that we had when
we entered Dalhousie may or may not have changed, but in any event
their foundations have been modified. We have become more or less
rational beings. We are not swayed by every wind of rumor or propaganda, nor are We carried away by catch phrases and new philosophies.
In so far as we have developed a critical sense that compels us to examine and evaluate new ideas before we accept them, the true purpose
of the university has been fulfilled in us:

Li has been said that a man’s education is what remains to him
after he has forgotten all that he has ever learned. During our years al
Dalhousie we have not learned a great deal. We have been able to
store enough facts into our brains to-satisfy our professors at examination time. But today many of us could not pass examinations in
which we wrote good papers within the pasi three weeks, to say nothing
of those that we passed two or three years ago. Few of us, especially
those of us who are graduating in Arts, could make a living by applying ihe particcular knowledge that we have acquired. The important
thing 1s that we have laid a foundation on which we can build: we
have learned how to learn, and we have learned how to think.

The years that we have spent ai Dalhousie have been pieasant years
for us. Here we have worked hard, studied hard, played hard. We
have spent four years of leisure, of seclusion, sheltered from the necessity of earning our bread. Society has been good to us: society has
given us an opportunity to study, and toimprove our minds. Wearea
privileged few.

The late Woodrow Wilson once wrote thai the purpose of the college
is ‘‘the training of men who are to rise above the ranks.’’ The thing
that should differeniiate the university-trained man from the man on
the street is a state of mind. It has been said that the task of a liberai
education ‘‘is to help us to see life in true proportion, so that we can
find our love of knowledge balanced by a feeling for humanity, and so
that while being a friend of man in the abstract, we do not forgei to be a
friend of men.’ Unfortunately, we do not all possess that balanced
outlook with which our education should have provided us. Our class
numbers among tts members fine scholars, sound athletes and good fellows in plenty. But rs rt not true that the sense of proportion is too
often lacking? Has there not been too much concentration, too much
specialization? Are not some of us lop-sided--over-developed in some
respects, grievously under-developed tn others? Educational authorilies are alive to the problems which these questions raise. It remains
to us to help them, uf we can, and to remedy the defects in our own
characters to the best of our ability.

In our little college world we have made friendships that have
enriched our lives. A few of us may be able to keep alive our intimacies
for many years to come; but most of us will separate shortly, perhaps
never to see one another again, or at best 10 renew our friendship only
at long intervals. The thought of parting is depressing. But in after
years it will be pleasant to look back upon the happy days that we s pent
at Dalhousie and to remember the good friends whose companionsh Lp
and conversation meant so much to us. In the life that we have been
living here, those friends have filled a large place. The casual halfhours spent in conversing quietly with professors or with fellow students
may mean more to us, and may make a more lasting impression on
our minds than text-books and class-room lectures.

But lasting friendships, developed personalities and improved
minds are not the only things that we carry away as we take our leave
of Dalhousie. We have lived as men and women among men and
women Whose rights we have learned to respect. If we were pampered
at home, we have had to learn here to give and take with our fellows.
We have acquired that spirit of toleration which is so essential in our
interdependent society. We bear in our minds pleasant memories of
amusing incidents in class and on the campus, of the hours spent basking in the warm sunshine on the steps of the Library building or the
portico roof at Shirreff Hall, of tramps across the Arm, of debates, of
parades celebrating foo‘ball victories, of Glee Club shows, of arguments
with fellow students, of the anti-initation campaigns, and even of
lectures.

Our college days are over. Now we go out to face the stern realities of life. When we were children we used to hear that the world
needed college-trained people. But times have changed. Today we
are regarded as just another batch of college graduates going out to

swell the ranks of the unemployed. We must face a world that some(Continued on page 10)

eT ee ye

   


 

Page Three

 

 

 

Valedictorian

E. B. ROGERS

The Value of

Commerce

By
D. F. Archibald.

Value, as applied to a university education, must necessarily
be a much more abstract term
than when it is applied to a
tangible object such as an automobile. When we speak of the
value of Commerce, for example,
we don’t mean the cost of obtaining the degree in dollars
and cents, which is nothing
more than a simple problem
in arithmetic. What we intend
to discuss is the benefit to be
received by the individual from
studying such a course. In other words, our inquiry will concern itself with the subjective,
rather than the objective value
of a Commerce course.

The traditional benefit of a
university training has been the
bestowing of varying degrees
of what we call culture on the
students; providing them with
alert minds, and new interests
in life. Since the very beginning of universities, this benefit
has been achieved by the liberal
arts courses. In the past, such
training has given the student
an excellent preparation for life.
Since the advent of the Industrial Revolution and the Age ot
Democracy, however, a new factor has entered into the problems
of life. The number of university students who must face
the problems of the business
world in after life is continually
increasing, and it is felt that the
university should prepare them
in some way, to meet this phase
of life. There is a tendency
among educationalists of today
to think that the traditional
Arts courses, because of their
broadening influence and mental
training, are sufficient preparation for business, and that the
university errs if it attempts to
provide any direct education
along commercial lines. In other words, a course Jike Commerce in a university is a mistake; to adopt this new type of
course 1s a great error on the
part of the university. Prominent men in the field of education hold just such views as
these, but they carry a hint of
a reactionary attitude, and
should be subjected to searching
investigations before being either
accepted or rejected.

There are three ways in which
a wumiversity course may be
valuable to a student. In the
first place, the knowledge itself
may be valuable. Secondly,
while the knowledge received
may not be extensive enough to
be valuable in itself, it may open
up new lines of thought which
the student may later explore

more fully with great benefit to
(Continued on page 11)

ee i RR Aa ore ee ee ee a eS

 

A Generous Benefactor

During the past year Dalhousie has been the grateful recipient of a number of presents
of valuable books given to the
University by Dr. William Inglis
Morse. These presents have
been so greatly appreciated, not
only for their money value, but
for the excellent judgment their
donor has shown in selecting
them. Several of the books are
among the most valuable single
books in the Library. Mention
was made in a previous report
of the splendid facimile Chaucer
which was included in the first
gift; and in the recent collection
there is a facimile copy of the
First Folio of Shakespeare's plays
a treasure which has long been
desired by the University. Several of the books such as Bridges,
Testament of Beauty are from
first or limited editions and
many of them are exquisitely
bound.

The interest of the donor is
shown in the inclusion in the
most recent gift of a Dictionary
of English Book Collectors. Dr.
Morse is obviously a book collector himself and he shows the
book collector’s taste in the selection of his gift books. His interest in art and music is also
shown by his selection. He has
sent beautifully illustrated books
on the painting, sculpture and
architecture of several countries
and there is a complete collection of Chopin’s musical compositions and a volume of his
letters. There are a number of
books on Shakespeare; and many
more of interest to Classical
scholars. These brilliant and
scholarly books are accompanied
by such practical necessities as
the big Oxford Dictionary, the
new Shorter Oxford Dictionary,
and autographs of several authors.

One of Dr. Morse’s most
thoughtful acts was to send eight
beautiful mahogany book cases
to contain the books. Quarters
are badly cramped in the Dalhousie Library, but it is hoped
that some suitable place will
soon be found for these cases and
the treasures they contain where
the students wil] have full opportunity to examine them,

Dr. Morse’s desire to arouse
the interest of the students in
books has been shown further
by the $100 prize which he offered for the best essay on Dead
versus Living Books. There has
been keen competition in the essays, and the judges have pranounced the results gratifying.

Dr. Morse has a summer home
at Paradise, N. S. and he has
long shown a keen interest in
the Province. Some of his own
books are the result of his research among its historic treasures. Dr. Morse is extending
his interest in the Province to
its universities; and it is certain
that the interest of the students
in the books of his choice will
well repay him for his generosity.

 

Enjoyable Dance

The first of the Convocation
Week festivities was a delightful
party at the home of Laura
Marshall, Tower Road, on Saturday evening, May 6. About
forty-five couples danced ox played bridge until midnight, when
the party broke up, everybody
voting it a good augury for a
successful week. The refreshments provided by Mrs. Saunderson and her assistants left
nothing to be desired. Music
for dancing was provided by
Miss Coolen.

 

 
 
  
  

   
 
  
 
      

  
 
 

   
    
   
  
    
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
 

  

Vv ahe

* } ro 3 A
g rf a - tak - ~— =) a 4 Sea é
Cook eer aie ae
yor ey ee, Oe a Eabeth March
a en" a: z ‘ th + ale rs. ' Frank Goudge
4 | Ez Rae eR Se SOP he Se ao hi a,
te ft ey aera at - - ae » a a Sam | i e ' eae
a, he 4 a m3 a = ‘ , J.L. Dubins , B, A,
Pee ay tay sts é Soe" = - Merle Purtill
teen ee ee ee = BE, B. Rogers
ree eb Iyaie Pa pas | Bosden Stoddard
: -"s “ « z¢ 2 7
Wa eeaae rs). Sports Rditor
eeeee en | MURRAY LLOY
erro) * i BR.

BUSINESS STAFF... :
Asst. Business Manager
CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.
; B. 31384.
 -Proof Editor.
ERIC D,. MURRAY
_ George H. Murphy

    
   

    

  
     

_ Editorial office B. 5676

    
  
 

  
 

*

THINKING INTERNATIONALLY.

rr saat
aa
rem

¥ . is
~ st

 
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
    
     
  
   
   

ery cloud has a silver lining, and the black clouds of the
sion are no exception. In times of prosperity people are not
tt to think seriously of public problems; when jobs are plentiful
and pay checks are fat, people let the politicians do the thinking.
But when jobs become scarce and pay checks lean and infrequent,
- when men and women have to do without things that they would
like to have, when many require assistance to provide themselves
__with the bare necessities of life, then it is that people begin to think
- of the institutions and the policies that lie behind their day-to-day
life. And with serious thought comes a realization of the unity
the interdependence of the modern economic world. With
ch a realization comes a further realization that the prosperity
ny one nation depends to a large extent upon the prosperity of
orld at large, and hence that international cooperation must
ce national isolationism. In recent years, “thinking internally” has become a popular term. Internationalism is
growing at the expense of nationalism. And a large part of the
edit for the change may be laid at the door of the depression.
regi ae ; Es

S
fi

S s
Q ~ o>
= |
AM
oe oj + 7 ae
! "eD
- nati

aston SM tas iy A 3 =a tevert 7:
bs es GIVE. THEM LIGHT.
parte eee ree ye AES
uf Of Ft Rerh. t. ere - io ; '
eee Sa. 3 - -KContributed).
ofig Bed 8d ae ee y= Pa a ace : > go y
CeCe RE to eta SoG ote SW a _ Gathe - round a group of old and recent graduates of the Law

: a

_ School and you are bound to hear continua] references to the
ge oid Yow School.”” The patriotic and reverent feelings
_ shared by the ex-students are not however regarded in the same
e- a en hs present-day students there. Patriotic or not, the fact is
_ that it zs an old school ‘n a most neglected corner;of the Forrest
It is difficult to understand why one of the least expensive of the
faculties should merit this harsh treatment by the authorities.
_ Year after year goes by and the same windows rattle away at a
| -—s merry pace. In the Library where the law student does al] his
--_. work they seem to sing an unrelenting tune—‘‘We rattle, rattle as
~ you work.”

But the most flagrant neglect is to be found in the lighting
_ * system of the whole law school. Of all the unhelpful aids to study
w™ <4 @ : i. . ‘
_ —this Stands foremost amongst the deterring factors. There is
_ only one word to describe the lights at the Law School and that is
“miserable.” We can put up with window panes rattling with
the Calcutta-hole-like classrooms for two of the three classes, but
why our Library, our workshop, and our classrooms should not be
__ properly equipped with lights is the unanswered question that has
come to the lips of more than one student there. The result is
inevitable. In a short time after entering the school, the majority
become afflicted with eye-strain and kindred eye troubles that are
_ directly traceable to these misplaced and insufficient lights. In
_ view of the age-old excellent standard of the school, and more
'. especially in recent years its recognition for high scholarship, the
_ perennial disregard for so vital a matter as a good lighting system

i om. E is inexplicable.

"THE STUDENTS’ COUNCIL.

oe

 
  
   
  
  
    
   
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
     
   
     
  
  
   
  
   
     
     
   
   
  

f

a
—

  

fj

aes This is the last issue of the Dalhousie Gazette, and perhaps it is
«an inopportune time to comment on the work of the Students’
a Council, except to praise the work which they have performed
_ during the year now drawing to a close. Despite the lateness of
; ee -¢3 e season, however, it is felt that some mention should be made
concerning the relative powers of the retiring council and the

he council-elect during the last month of college.
Although the Council which will control the destinies of the
Students next year has been elected it does not take over the reins
___ of office until next fall. The retiring Council continues to control,
makes appointments for next year, and in many other ways binds
_ theincoming Council. Such a state of affairs should not be allowed
Beis continue—the fact that one Council is foisting appointees on the
new Council is a vicious principle in itself and the constitution
sk ould be amended so as to change this undesirable situation.

ae

_ ._ The Editor wishes to thank all those who have so generously
given of their time in preparing articles for this special issue of the
sazette; special thanks are due to R. Gordon Harris for his inable assistance rendered in the preparation of the paper. .

a
sae be ae
edt 5...”
J

Pe

 

Eo ee

uichables. at“ Home—
2 it may be different

=

     
 
  
  
    
  
 
  
  
 

; “Almost invariably when a
in}young man expresses his opinion

ver here we feel lon whatever subject, his remarks

lare said by his elders to charar.|acterize the modern “revolt of
5 | |you —R. Churchill.

  

t ~ sh rmen | te ; a sé "
They never| Chatterers are not. believed

he ones even when they are speaking the

     
  

  

  
   
    
 

*

The

 

| matter.

 

   

Waste Paper
Basket —

‘Unconsidered trifles.”’

 

‘““The darkness of mankind is
untellible.’”” Here isa s.atement
made by the Lieutenant-Govyernor of Ontario in the “Saturday Night.”’—

“Tt is recorded by Haggard

|that when this honor was con
ferred upon Simpson, Sir Walter
Scott wrote to him and suggested as a coat-of-arms fitting to
commemorate his work—’’The
rest of the quotation does not
The reference is to Sir
James Simpson, the Edinburgh

|doctor who was knighted for

using chloroform with Queen
Victoria at her seventh confinement. The date is 1858, and
Sir Walter Scott died in 1832.
How he could have written to
Simpson, twenty-one years after
his death isa mystéry. A greater mystery is how so well informed a man as Dr. Bruce
could make such a ridiculous
mistake.

The humbug of “business
English” is being repudiated by
the very persons it was intended
to benefit—the business men.
A local printing firm advertises
itself by distributing small pieces
of blotting paper. The latest
one prints a long list of ‘“consecrated” words and phrases
which should ‘‘be eliminated
from all correspondence,” in
other words, never be used in
writing. Here are a few:

Thanking you in advance,
Beg to remain

Proposition

-Esteemed letter

Trusting to hear from you
Along this time

Our best attention.

These are only a few of cliches from the second instalment.

They had queer ideas about
university students, once upon
a time. . )

““A mere scholar is an intelligible ass that speaks sentences
more familiarly than sense.’”’—
Sir Thomas Overbusy.

“The hermitage of his study
has made him somewhat uncouth in the world, and men
makes him worse by staring at
him.’’—John Earle. 3

“Much study had made him
very lean

And pale and leaden-eyed.”—
Eugene Aram.

“And warning student pale to
leave his pen ;
And yield his frowsy eyes to
the kind nurse of men.
The Lady of the Lake.

“When first the college rolls
receive his name - 3
The young enthusiast quits his
ease for fame;
Resistless burns the fever of re.
nown
Caught from the strong con
tagion of the gown.
Sam Johnson.

PRO ARCHIA.

_——__s-o———____

Warning—A youth was fined
{or dangeious driving because
a girl was nestling against him.
This is what comes of believing
that two heads are better than
one.—Daily Mail.

Heart and Tongue—The importance or unimportance of a
thing turns mainly on the length
of time during which it has played an important part in the history of the race. Thus the heart
is more important than the pow
er of speech.—Samuel Butler's
Notebook. )

Having the largest hydro-electric plant in the world, on the
Dnieper, Russia is set for big
things, if she has anyone who
knows how to step to the basement and change a fuse-—Sud
}and unbuckle their savings and

‘| wanderers.

|Kahoyen and Pattigillow and

|but Teedee and Raymond, the
|Red Makkartee and Rozxee and

it ?
Necessity of Knowledge— he mighty Bawb of Dongeld

 

  

   
  
 

 

G AZETTE | aes May 16th, 1933
The Second Book Parodies
of Bunc
Additional Chapter. ee

& t ‘And the Grads of Dal will

gather in great numbers and a
mighty Convocation of people
will assemble with the king and
the men of state; and there will
also be there the senders of the
Chekks, yea verily they who
came up into the land to see the
vesting of the degree.

2. And the servant of the
church will arise and say Bless
ye, my people and then there
will be many speeches and the
people will mutter in their seats
at the fanning of the air and the
repetition of empty words and
the Grads will look one into the
other and say within their hearts
loh, yeah and verily.

3. Lo, another year of the
land of Dal will have run its
course.

4. And it came to pass that
the inhabitants of the tribe of
law gathered in large numbers
in the inn of the land and there
was great rejoicing for lo, the
days of horror were past and the
Frazer of Yarm led the mob in
dancing and revelry and the reciting of poetry. Forsooth the
casks of wine were plentiful and
the populace was thirsty unto
their throats.

). Behold the powerful citizens Of the tribe were there, yea
verily there sat in state the
Deeyen of the folk, Seed-nie and

close by the Scribe of Law

Hovgiss of Siudied Sayings and
on the left was Jawhenn who
departs forever from the land
of Dal and Marj-oree was there
also and the other female of the
tribe, yea, the Grad of Harrvarid.

6. But the populace looked
for Vintzen, the learned son of
the Makkdonald clan and when
he arose in his seat at the feast
the mob cried in chorus ‘‘We
want Vintzen, speak unto us
Oh Vintz, and he spoke and lo,
they quailed in terror beneath
his piercing thrusts. And Oxley
the Fluent and Lawrence of
Sask bowed their heads in terror
and the profess too were not
spared.

7.
the men of Med were gathered
and the question came forth

from the profess, Is Dawyn of] With their suspenders.

Makkraye amongst us, and the
answer came back, No Sire, but
there is here the appendix of our
brother and the prof said, ’tis
well and he is present.

8. Behold the time has come
when the people of the land will
go forth among the many countries and say unto the wives of
the inhabitants, Alas oh noble
woman, wilt thou accept this
journal that I may return unto
the land of Dal. And they will
come unto the hospitable inhabitants of Cape Brett and
these will untie their heartstrings

provide fodder unto the hungry
Then shall they return to their homes where comfort awaits them and write unto the columz of the Gozziett
and other papers, saying of what
uncouth a race of men are they
of Capebrett, verily they are
uncivilized in the ways of man.

9. But many too will go out
this year on the Stuhemp and

the many other followers of
Ben-Net and the defeated prince
of Novsko, verily the Gordyehen who assumed the mantle
of Eddger the Forsaker will
shout unto the people, Hear ye,
the govers of this country are
good and they shall be returned;

familee and the others will return the thrusts of battle and
alas for Pattgillow, for behold
he is a noble lad but his thought
have been misled by the faithless Konservis. Behold the
Toryeez will be lost in a great

cece. © ~ ttt  LLLL L C L LCt ,

inundation.

And it came to pass that |

Ay, a monstrous, omnipresent, all-pervading, mind-engrossing
possession. A brood of chattering jack-daws, mighty in numbers,
terrible to contemplate—ferocious little animals, engaged in petty
warfare. How to make them live together, not in soul-destroying
hostility, but rather in brotherlike intercourse, incompara ble Peace?
Prime Ministers, Acts of Parliaments, Lords and Sovereigns—awestruck, would have retreated, craven-like, in the face of such
raving, fire-breathing, minute demons. Kings and laws might
fail, but the desperate, distracted Hero-Mother, cramped in her
humble Shoe-Apartment, was equal to the awful! task. She gave
her rapacious children a meagre meal] of broth, and dispatched them
to bed. She was a most common-sense woman; she was an adornment to the Nation. Would that her kind were multiplied a
hundred-fold, yea, a thousand-fold. Then would new generations
be reared in respect of authority and law, to the benefaction of the
population of this glorious country. We must here end what we
had to say of the Old-Woman-Who-Lived-in-a-Shoe.

AFTER A. E. HOUSMAN.

An old and weary woman
Had, living in a shoe,

So many lads and lassies
She scarce knew what to do.

“My lovely little lassies,”’

She murmured with a sigh,

‘‘Why should you grow and suffer
Since anyway you die?”’

“My darling little laddies,”’

She sorrowfully said,

‘Why should you strive and struggle
When you will soon be dead?”

She made them broth and, smiling,
She called them to her side,

And one by one they drank it,
And one by one they died.

_
AFTER KIPLING.

In the High and Far-Off Times, O Best Beloved there lived an
Old Woman, who was amost stupendously-amazing Woman. And
the Old, Stupendously-Amazing Woman lived in an Old, PatchyBlatchy Shu-oo. The Shu-oo was in-hab-it-ed ’sclusively by the
Old Woman, (who was a most Stupendously-Amazing Woman) and
all her dear, dear Children. |

These dear, dear Children were very Unique Children; they
were simply fuli of ’satiable curiosity, and they all wore suspenders.
And O Best Beloved, you must not forget the suspenders. But
these Children, who were very active and Very Numerous, were
fully of the Joy-Of-Living, and consequently were a great worry ~
to their own poor dear old Mother, who, as you remember (yousimply must remember) wasa most Stupendously-Amazing Woman.

Have you forgotten the suspenders yet? O Best Beloved?

So one day when the dear children had been most ‘special-and
particularly worrisome the Old Woman had a large and most
Stupendously-Amazing IDEA. Thisisit. When they came in to
supper the only thing she would give them to eat was Broth. Now,
these dear, dear Children were very fond of Bread and Jam, so
being, as I told you, O Best Beloved, full of ’Satiable curiosity,
they said ‘Mummy, WHY can’t we have any Bread and Jam?”
So then the Old Woman said, “I am Sick-and-Tired of your 'Satiable
Curiosity” and she spanked them all (the Dear, Dear Children)
You can spank very hard with suspenders
Best Beloved. Then she put them to bed.

3 And now you see why you simply must not forget the suspeners.

—-——

AFTER E. E. CUMMINGS.

adam-riB

indwelling laced

children children CHILDren
boysandgirls and
boysandgirls

brats

B

.......this is a hard world
carrots peas and potatoes
on a spoon
a soup spoon
a BIG round shiney
spOOn
without any bread
Ouch
many times
and
then to
B
ed

——

 

 

10. And two new chieftains
have been appointed by the men
of Dal to control the destinies
of the Gazziett, verily the Dusheman and Jowestt of the tribe
of law and they are learned; and
with them the Chronicler will
return to relate the events of
the Land of Dal.

—-——- >> __.

The key to every man is his
thought. Sturdy and defying
though he look, he has a helm
which he obeys, which is the idea
after which all his facts are classified. He can only be reformed by showing him a new idea
which commands his ow

Own.
Emerson.
: i
a a
< : 5 7 , >t J _ rd ms on ie : is
on C2 Rik a rar | A j a oe .
; . 7 ‘aii io ee Sa ol ok ny id, y
ae PN ee . ieaeNiedoo
= a leer a a ett ast a

 

  
 
  

  
 

he oe 1 ele ies wilt
at Lay: Aen a eS
“es * pe toes ie
= = me) ip ee oy

- inne aS by uF

  
 
     

Nature’s Error—Even nature
makes a mistake once in a while.
If not, then the white girls
wouldn’t be buying permanent
waves and the colored ones kink
remover.— Montreal Star.

“It is wonderful, the ingenuity
of the human mind for finding
reasons to postpone or delay action. It is the most powerful
factor in modern politics.

Sir Oswaid Mosely.

jov TRE great tragedy of science
is the slaying of a beautiful theory by an ugly fact.—L. Huxley.

“Reading is dangerous ¥ beCause it is so often a substitute

_ |for thinking —Rev. Hugh Black.

 
   

 
   
  
   
 
  
  

Jair Lewis, in one of his
refers to a certain type
en as “‘joiners.” That is,
belong to as many fraternal

Rotarians, Kiwanis, Elks,

     
    
   
   
  

<lux Klansmen. They like
They like to wear badges
ornamented with mystic sympols, to greet their brethren
with the secret clasp, to initiate
3 -. new members with weird rites
and to wear gorgeous ceremonial
_ robes; they rejoice in the title
of Assistant Grand Worshipful
eee Le? Scribe. nage .
ee - The attitude of mind thus
characterized is, however, by no
means limited to the middle_ aged business man, but is found
in many places. Its chief feminine exponent among the younger generation is the Sorority Sister found on the campus of the
modern university. f
At Dalhousie she has spent
her freshette year without the
sacred portals. The next fall,
however, rushing begins. She is
-. asked to join one of the sororities
and promptly does so, often less
‘because she likes the girls in that
_ particular group than because
she could not bear to have anyone think that she had not been
invited to become a member. |
Soon afterwards a decided
change in her speech can be
noticed. The organization of
which she is a member becomes
~~ “the sorority’? while the others
are carelessly designated as the
Alpha Sigs or something equally
informal; for the creed of the
-* Sorority Sister begins “Our Sor| ority is the best sorority...”
A corresponding change in her
attitude toward other girls may
—. benoted. Is that female a member of our sorority? Does she
belong to another one? If she
does, don’t trust her; if she
_ doesn’t, she’s hopeless.
The new sister becomes sor_-—_ ority-conscious. She studies so
_ many hours every week, not that
ie she may thereby acquire knowledge, but for the honour of dear
old Zeta Zeta. She states mod-estly but confidently that “Our
2 girls are the nicest-looking on
the campus, and if you'll notice
the girls at. the dances you'll
’ find that most of them belong
e to the sorority.’ She quarrels
with a friend who belongs to another sorority about which group
“grabbed off’ the- nicest girls.
“Joan says they have such a nice
lot of pledges,’ she reports to
the sisterhood, ‘“‘when she knows
perfectly well that I know they
rushed aJl our girls too. She
says they're lovely when you
get to know them. Lovely.
Those soupy looking specimens.”
_ Perhaps the Sorority Sister becomes prominent on the campus
- during her four years; she plays
in a Glee Club show or is elected
to the Students Council. She
then receives the accolade: the
president congratulates her be~ cause ‘It’s nice for the sorority.”
_Comes the spring and campus
elections. For weeks she carewh lessly suggests prospective officers to the public. In private
_.- her plans are more definite.
She arranges that one member
FE be nominated for each office.
-. The nominee is decided on beforehand so that even if another
~~ member were proposed the sorrae — ority would know how to vote.
If another sorority nominates
one of its members a few more

—
 

sa

rll

oe

se

  
   
  
  
   
   
   
    
   
    
  
  
     

‘split the opposing vote. ‘‘After
| all it doesn’t matter much if
~ Mary doesn’t know anything
about basketball, but it would be
terrible if one of the Pi Pis was
ee manager,’ says the Sorority
Sister fervently. Such Napol—s eonie tactics cannot be circuma vented: it is a proud moment
when she surveys the slate of

Officers for the succeeding year.
——s Tt occasionally happens that
___ she is not properly enthusiastic
. about her duties but the solemn
_ words “You owe it to the sor
rity’

  
 

     
 
 

   
 
   
 
  

’ will in most cases spur

"Condensation of

| Thoughts (?) of

anizations as possible. They}
se, Masons, Oddfellows and |

‘Soph.

Back to old grind.

Necking.

. of that group are nominated to.

cas a she eventually

 

 

Average

Dalhousian

Hate to leave home. Good
time this summer. . train journey
stuffy. Halifax. .some burg after the village. MacNeil — same
as ever. Show to-night, nice
looking freshet. Town dance—
took hot number. Lectures
start. Awful fag. FreshieMore freshets. Shows.
Football Dances. Getting tired
of freshets. Try town girls.
Snow. Exams close. Must
memorize some likely questions.
Write in Gym. Home for Xmas.
Lots of parties. Swell time.
Only two
Basketball. Girls.

Went to a new bootleg dive. Warm winter. Littleice. Someskating not much.
Shows fair. Wish could meet
right dame. Broke again. Series
of Lectures at gym. President
wants us to go. What a laugh.
College life too serious anyhow.
What a blonde. Ah! hell I’m
off women: She gypped me.
Take up bridge. Too much
brain work. Try studies. Monotonous. Gym work. Too exhausting. Prof. recommended
readings. Loan me some Looks.
Too deep. What does he think
[I am. Met new girl. Some

places.

number.. She loans me hot
book. Sweet stuff. Good
Gawd. Exams again. Three
plucks. Examinations — unfair

anyhow. After all my work.

 

 

“An Essay”

The following differentiation between a banana and a sausage
is a valuable contribution to
natural history. It is an essay
on a banana, was _ written
by a Japanese schoolboy, and
first appeared in the ‘Malay
Mail:

“The banana are great tremarkable fruit. He are constructed in the same architectural style as sausage, difference
being skin of sausage are habitually consumed, while it is not
advisable to eat wrapping of
banana.

“The banana are held aloft
while consuming; sausages are
usually left in reclining position.
Sausage depend for creation on
human being or stuffing machine, while banana are Pristine
Product of honorable mother nature. In case of sausage, both
conclusion are attached to other
sausage; banana on other hands
are attached on one end to stem
and opposite termination entirely loose. Finally banana
are strictly of vegetable kingdom
while affiliation of sausage often
undecided.”’

er

Referring to the peculiar tone
inflexion and pronunciation of
English known as the ‘Oxford
accent,’’ a Toronto professor
describes it as ‘‘one of the most
disagreeable noises made by the
human species.’”’ For instance
one might hear a fellow who
boasts of such accent in = such
terms, quoting Scripture, as:
“He that hath yaws to yaw, let
him yaw.”

ore.

Columbus, Ohio,—Don’t correct yourself when you say ‘it
isme.’ That expression has the
approval of the Dean of English
at Ohio State University.

“There's too much of the
school-master in the American
language,” says Dean McKnight
“It is me’ is a natural use of the
expression and is much to be
preferred over ‘It is I.’”

 

difficult to find something to
take its place. Sororities at
Dalhousie are too young for anyone to tel] what the future of the
Sorority Sister will be; speculation on the subject brings one to
an inevitable conclusion: once a
joiner, alwaysa joiner. Possibly

ge place in her|our loss will be the Rebekahs’
Se wk be ;

gain. +s

“ee

  

Not many years ago the Presi-| have become interested in some

dent of Dalhousie observed in| form

Of Such Is The Kingdom

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

of intellectual activity;

his annual report that, “The/and that for every student who
Faculty of Arts and Science is|graduates this year without a

the heart of a university.” I
have been given a_ thousand
words, and | should like to use
them for a discussion of leaky
valves, anaemia, and hardening
of the arteries.

It must be confessed that a
discussion of student ills has no
place in the final annual number
of astudent paper. Good cheer,
coupled with the mention of a
collegiate incident or two, and
with a foggy, all-pervading atmosphere of more or less delicate
sentiment, would be more appropriate. May |, after the
fashion of a theme, draw up a
plan to fit the article that 1
ought to write? It would commence with best wishes to all,
and especially give homage to
those who are to graduate. It
would tell them that thisis a
great Event in their lives, marking a break with Youth, and
that the responsib.lities of Life
are now before them. It would
remind them in quotation
marks:, that ‘‘a university is a
clearing house of ideas,’ and
might even be base enough to
express the hope that Dalhousians would do well to remain
on the gold standard, and not
finance their mental transactions
with clearing house script. It

burning desire to do somethin

about something, the college
may count a failure. It matters
nothing where the interest lies,
so long as it is in a field that has
moved the minds of men.

But a discussion of what a
university has a right to expect
of its students is, true to its
source, painfully academic. We
should be better advised to
concern ourselves with realities;
to consider only those things
which may be predicted with
confidence about the conduct
of this year’s typical graduates.
It might be a constructive effort
to draft a set of rules to be
followed by those who leave us
this May, if they would be
received as equals in the great
fellowship of university people

Absolute mental respectability heads the list. If you accidentally get hold of an idea
that is newer than fifth hand
in your neighbourhood, banish
it at once and forever.

Cultivate the appearance of
literary activity. Join the Book
of the Month Club, and anything else that will provide you
with the same books everybody
else is reading. Remember the
story of Mary Pickford, who
said not long ago in reply to

would say, doubtless with per-|an interviewer, ‘‘l enjoy reading

fect truth, that the staff will

books by all standard authors.”

miss the graduates more than|Mary might well have been a

the graduates miss the college.
There would be a general affir.
mation that the chief occupation
of professors was waiting ey.
pectantly for old grads to drop
in on them, shake them warmly

by the hand, and magnanimoys
ly forgive and forget. And lastly the semi-touching reference
to “‘old Dalhousie,’ and the
wholly touching suggestion as
to what might be done by any
graduate who wakes up one
day and finds himself a millionaire.

Unfortunately all this talk of
Youth, (protected with the armour of a four years Arts course),
girding up .ts Loins and with
High Resolve to do battle with
Life, is contrary to my admittedly slender experience. One does,
it is true, occasionally see a
serious non-professional student.
Some have suggested that it is
for these that the university
exists. The drug store however,
with the world howling for milkshakes, cannot afford to devote
much attention to its classical
task of providing cures for milk
poisoning and other ills.

I find no great difficulty in
holding back the tears about the
loss of the graduating class.
They will be replaced next autumn by precisely similar freshmen, who will come in without
an idea of any kind, remain four
years, and go out Like the current
crop, in the same _ condition.
Why should anybody be asked to
celebrate as an intellectual event
in someone's life, the conclusion
of a period during which nothing
has happened? Compulsory
classes have been cleared, examinations passed; and yet our,
graduates come up for their|
degrees cellophane wrapped, un-|
touched by human hand. Not
a spark has been kindled; their
sense of values is exactly as it
was four years previously. They
would at any time gladly have
dropped everything they learned
down the sink, like the bad
medicine of childhood days, if
only*by some fake they could
have received credit for taking
it all the same. Parents are
doubtless proud to receive their
boys and girls back from college
with their minds unspoiled by
ideas of any kind. Small wonder that the staff dress up like a
group of medieval pall bearers
for the big ceremony in May.

Theorists might maintain that
a university has a right to ask
from time to time, for evidence
of mental development on the
part ofits students. Some could
even be found who would go so
far as to say that graduates
should, during their Arts course,

contemporary Dalhousian.

If you are a man join as many
luncheon clubs as there are days
of the week. Enter into community work, and go about
ostentatiously doing good whenever possible. Become an active
member of one of the great
political parties. Maintain
stoutly that, having now reached
governmental perfection, we
shall have when the Judgment
Day comes, the same political
system unchanged in any major
particular, that we have today.

Whenever — possible, verbally
save “our Institutions’ from
“those who would destroy
them.”

If you are a woman join the
Junior Service League and do
good. If you can’t afford to
join tell your friends that it is
composed of snobs, and do good
anyway. Promote bazaars, teas
and other public functions. After you are married base your
political ideas on information
gained from the ice-man, grocery
man and other back door philosophers. Before marriage have
no political ideas.

Since I too am a university
product I shall here let fall a
pearl of culture for all to see, by
closing in the collegiate fashion
with the only classical allusion
I know.

Ora et Labora.
F, RONALD HAYES.
———$$—$—— $$$

HAVE FAITH IN YOURSELF

 

 

“Most men go to pieces when
they have had a few good beatings. They wilt. They fade
away. They crawl in a safe
little corner and hide while the
great rough tide of glorious life
rushes past. them. The fact is
that defeat is the normal thing
in this haphazard little world and
victory comes but seldom.

A man must have faith in himself, and in what he is trying to

do. He must say “I can.” He
must back himself to win. He
must bet on himself. He must

have faith in the people he works
with. He must believe in his
team. He must see the better
side of his co-workers and not
think that his own point of view
is the right one. He must have
faith in those great principles
that make us superior to the animals of the forest—to truth,
honesty, sympathy, justice, progress,’’

Forbes Magazine

 

  

. Page Five

The Dilettante
Student

 

 

 

‘Ma, that son of ours ain’t
doin’ nothin at, collitch but fool
around with t girls.”

“Oh, I don’t think so, Hiram,
he’s a-workin’ hard.”

‘Workin’ hard! Then what
do you make of this Alma Mater
he says he loves so much—’’

He appears in class sufficiently late to make clear his casual
regard for such ceremonies.

He selects his chair:and places
himself as comfortably as possible within its rigid limitations.
The whole class becomes a pic
—>--+-e —____
Simple Pleasures—The Soviet has abolished Christmas

 

 

ture from which his roving eye
may select some object of inprofessor
moments.
His interest wanes suddenly.

terest.
intently

He eyes the
for some

His attention becomes fixed on
some other person whom hecan
survey ‘without’ effort. He
stares at this person fixedly, possible he sketches the unfortunate wretch. The sketch is impossible. He gives it up, leans
his aristocratic head against the
wall, opens his mouth, and goes
unashamedly to sleep. Even
sleep cannot hold him for long.
He wakes and laxily attempts to
discover the state of the lecture
and the feeling of the class.
He pulls his neighbour’s note
book towards him and glances
at the fragments. If he is impressed he will write a question
on a piece of paper and push it
towards the owner of the notes.
The neighbour writes an answer.
This is an interesting pastime.
He writes another question.
The neighbour disinterestedly
answers with a negative or affirmative shake of the head}
The piece of paper is not returned. He has no urge to begin again on another piece; so
the game is abandoned. He
listens spasmodically to the rest
of the lecture until he is released
at the end of the hour.

He drifts gracefully out into
the hall. He wants to talk to
someone, someone who will listen to him and appreciate him.
He singles out a classmate, leans
his willowy form against the
nearest wall and proceeds to
discourse fitfully until he has
nothing more to say. He then
leaves abruptly, and ambles off
to some new place of interest.

He does his classwork when it
pleases him. He is plucked in
classes he doesn’t like and his
success is erratic in those he does
like. Sometimes he abandons
classwork completely for some
new venture in writing, or some
new interest in reading, which
has caught hisfancy. He makes

(Continued on page 9)

 

 

GAUVIN

AND

GENTZEL

Photographers to

Dalhousie University

 

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

 

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B.6992.

 

  

and has decided that kissing
causes
About the only luxuries left in
Russia are assault and battery
and
gary Herald.

Or spreads influenza.

starving to death.—Cal
Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Prices
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO at one

price

$19,°°

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors

THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

Good
Health
To
You

 

Good health depends
largely on the things
we eat. Everybody served here, meals, Ice
Creams, etc. are very
carefully selected and
nicely served........

THE
GREEN
LANTERN

HALIFAX

Nova Scotia

 

 

  

FRASER BROS.
service B.6070

 

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

 

NICKERSON & CREASE
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

OVERSEAS EDUCATION LEAGUE

Annual Summer Tours to Europe
D

Cruise to the Orient

for detailed circular apply to

Miss. V. Alvarez,
70 Sun Life Bldg.
MONTREAL

a har . , Z
4 es RES eis er i = ra ee.

Miss Rhoda Howe,
224 Bloor St.West
TORONTO

Miss Lillian Watson,
141Power Bldg.
WINNIPEG

 

 
   

 
 
 
   

   

   
     
 
 

   

ble E

“ _ 0 ; ab eS my “< Fs n Wi <3
_ usual, aroused the qu

    
  

  

"sare its staunch and blind sup| porters, and today, as in 1914,
ino ther selves the alli
s fired with

hy

    
 
     

  
  
 
 
 
  
   

es 0.

.

   
    
 

  

gland and her Dominions
ain quiet at this crucial

moment she

   

 

  

oe ie will again precipitate, as in 1914, a war which
eventually she and they will be
obliged toenter,

ae *;

~,

   

Considering the pacifist stu_- dent movement in England and
“anada, I cannot for an instance

lmit its propagation. The inSee ctual youth and the statesmen of England and her DominDs eee jons must realize today that
‘they hold the key of the future
peace of Europe, in this way:
that they, students and government, must make an emphatic
ry. declaration of hostility to Hit
7 ; a
» F pegs

    
   
     
    
   
    
  
   
 
    
  
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
  

   

  

gras. Y

Pe As Dp es of international politics.
ain ~ It is well known in Continental
countries that Hitler and Musso~ jini won’t move till they have
finally persuaded MacDonald to
| keep the English sword in its
sheath. Thus Italy and Ger/-- - many are working feverishly for
_ the neutrality of England; while
on the other hand an equally
_ feverish France and her allies
m

n and Mussolinian princi
f

    

 
 

r*%

 

o.

   

cos wer aking desperate appeals to
| British arms. Here may I cite:
=. He who is not your friend will

  
    
 
    
 
   
   
  
    

 

eo te and your neutrality, whilst
fle > ep :
treat you to declare yourself}
poe ' with arms.” If this sentence is
Eo oss eee, as I firmly believe it is, then
the intellectual youth of Eng
: en - fand- and Canada are playing

=

 
 

at

directly into the hands of the
_~ present European war lords.
gar rant sm, even in its mildest
-_ form, is a false ideal to the great
- - Democratic countries of today.
Mr. Editor, you have my opinion
on your pacifism as expressed
--- jn_-your late editorial. It is an
opinion which I do not wish to
_ force on those who are well
-__ gatisfied with their own, but I
| ‘beg you not to look at thiags
-* as you wish them to be, but as
they really are. Imperial na- tionalism on the base of Demo-_— eratic principles is the remedy
- for the present European diplomatic hypocrisy.

      
   
 
 
 

Sea Moreover, Mr. Editor, I ques‘tion the authenticity of your
- statement that: “Colleges all
over the continent are discoversing «that the percentage of students who would enlist in the
-—- mext war is very, very small.”
Deeply surprised and very in._ eredulous I resolved to gather
' -—s- systematically the opinion of
Continental students actually
in France but not attending French
_-—saeniversities—to be sure that their
minds are not affected by
et “French imperialism.”

 

 
     

   
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
   
 
 
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  

A German student, a Com~~ munist and therefore a pacifist
___ in doctrine, who has lately been
__— refused readmittance into Ger~~ many because of his political
~ _ writings, which were published
- in Vienna, is of the opinion that
_-— a_~=spacifist + movement among
' French, English or Canadian
__ Students is useless in the face
_ of the savage patriotism of the
_ German and Italian students.
Nev theless, true to his Com_ munistic doctrine, he believes
__ that the English and Canadian
dents should continue their
vement because it may even_ reach their Continental
rs. He elaborated that
erman youth should have|
preached pacifism in 1922en a real pacifist desire
but that today it is
ssible to go against Hitler
s fed them aggressive

e

me

   
  

  

  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   

  

te eee - m

og! POE Hitler are more aggressively

|national and are united into|™
a mei cae Bae a 4 The requirements for admis- eet being admitted in Nova
segs Ween a ee I ots sion to the Bar in this Province|Scotia. The first method is pre- ae ;
‘The impend iar bie Ji eg Bape 4 ae are laid down in part by the|ferable as it obviates the neces- tend to-vistt, Europe Gis Siitifalse security. because a. Eurostion of|Communists who are, like the ; oe events Whisk ace Bene alranged oe war anc
Ne as Se ae ee Wee oe Phe | and in part by regulations of|inations and makes the intend- ; {am sure that Oxford-Manchester
2 ernie. vocitats Latect The Barristers’ Society passed jing barrister a member of two by the Confederation Interna-| wovement is a passing fancy,

threatened| and T

of pacifism are)

| tellectual youth in his country ing of eight written papers on|or entering as a junior the office

he who is your friend will en-|

_This| the present day coe is
_ declared|the pre-war Socialist, in| ati ni :
is Cia 19 declared ee he would | tom and paying the requisite|173 feet long was bagged in the
ec, roday,| not tight, but who like everyone] vinces desiring t i |

national- else did his duty—he will do so/home may ieee ice ey OY. pemieee, Hous

ca
em)

Bs 3

May 16th, 1933

C. I. E. Congress Pacifism
To Be Held In (Continued from col, 2)

Venice

”

again. I would ask you, Mr.
ES eee eee ae Editor, not to blind the Canaanadian students who 1£)-| qian students with the idea of

Nova Scotia Barristers’ Act, |sity for further difficult exam-|™* will be interested in two pean war is a world war and I

tionale des Etudiants (the C. I.
Ey

ar : 7 | under the Authority of the sta-| bars. which will quickly vanish.

news say that these are complete-| 146, Various avenues are open to} “4 | f tt

ly subdued, : _A prospective barrister must|the Jaw trained man. He may C = & ear be ere qd »°| Thanking you, Mr. Editor,
From a Hungarian student} first pass the preliminary exam-!choose to practice law, either| ‘°°. 7, ™ ee

comes the opinion that the in-|ination of the Society, consist-| “hanging out his own shingle,” August at Venice with the Ital

ian Student Federation as host.

The National Federation of Can
adian University Students is not

o eae A ae ; a Ed. Note: This leiter Was written
nes ted fo ees aLaeeuare by a former Dalhousian who is at
to the Venice Congress. Any PrIOnE CINE eh ear pe,
Canadian students who expect
to be in Italy in August and |Heaven Has Twice as Much
who would like to attend the of it as has Hell.
congress should communicate :

with Max Wershof, Assistant "Lhe opinion has been ad
I remain,
is nationalist for two reasonS:/certain specified subjects, of a-|of another lawyer, or the legal Defensive Nationalism.
because Hungary was mercilessly | bout the grade of difficulty of | department of some of the larger
divided by the Treaty of Ver-|second year Arts. He may be|corporations. Later he may besailles and because the students exempted from this examination|come a specialist in some parare ardent supporters of the|py presenting a certificate to| ticular phase of law which may
Hapsburgs. He be'ieves that | the society (a) that he has mat-|appeal to him. If he decides to
the Hungarian youth will rally|;jculated into a recognized Uni- practise he may probably have
at the first call to arms because versity, and has attended and|a financial struggle for the first
they feel that. they have been passed ten regular classes in|year or two, and when he first
robbed of their natural patri-| Arts, of which two shall be|begins wil! probably not earn
mony. His opinion of the English, one Latin, one Mathe-|much more than from $75 to|c... eS ig eee a A
English and Canadian pacifist| matics, and one in any foreign|$100 a month. Greater rewards secretary N. F. C. U. S., c/o vanced,” says Type, ‘that the
movement is thatit is proper in language, or (b) that he holds} will come to him as his reputa- University of Alberta, Edmon-|fetter ‘e 1s the most unfortunate
itself but entirely unknown in a} the degree of B. A., B. Sc., or|tion and his clientele increase. | *?”: _, ,, {letter in the English alphabet,
country such as Hungary which|B, Com. from a_ recognized|In a recent American study 107 The ‘International University fsinge: it is always out of cash,
has been and is being indirectly | University, provided that he|lawyers five years out of college Sports, which are organized €v-|/forever in debt, never out of
strangled by “French imperial-|has matriculated in Latin. averaged $4254 a year, while|~'> two years by the C. I. E. danger and in hell all of the
ism’ (My answer to this state-} He next becomes an articled|116 lawyers ten years out aver- will be held this summer at time. It is fortunate in that
ment: he is both right and wrong | clerk by entering into a written|aged $6981. These are only furin the first week in Septem- it is never in war and always
for the external politics of a/eontract to serve in the office average figures of course, and Der. Canadian students who in peace. It is the beginning of
country is never all bad nor all) of a practising barrister, and by| the practitioner may make some- will be in Italy and who would |existence, the commencement of
good; nor do I wish, in this fyling a copy of his contract|what less, or a great deal more jike to attend the sports either ease and the end of trouble.
article, to defend the so called|with The Barristers’ Society. depending upon many fa abies, | ry See Cor Se OF participants} \Without it there would be no
“French imperialism’). If at the date of his contract ~'|should write to Max Wershof| meat, no life and no heaven.
Due to an unfortunate coinci-|he holds the degree of B. A. or| The practice of Jaw may not|° to the Dominion Students It is the Center of honesty, and
dence I am unable to give you|if at the date of his application | appeal to a law graduate, either Athle tic Union, 163 Strand, makes Jove perfect. It is the
the Italian attitude towards pac-|for admission to the Bar he| because he does not like the type London W. C. 2, England. This/beginning and end of editorial
ifism and the English and Can-| holds the degree of LL. B. the|of work he may be required to OFSAINZaON 1S endeavouring to existence.” —The / og.
adian movement. But it is|time of service is three years.|do, or because he may feel that|@!tange,,on bebalf of the N. F.

quite clear that in a country}In all other cases he must serve|hé has not the necessary quali-|& U:.5. for the entry of a
‘ Canadian team at the Turin

 

 

        

 

where the youth has been thor-/for four years. The fee payable| fication for a successful practi- canbe
oughly “militarized’’ the senti-|to the Society at this stage is|tioner. His time has not been |®@*™©*: BIRKS—
ments of pacifism must find an! Fifty Dol'ars. wasted, and he can consider

arid soil. From the age of four- : himself the possessor of a most oe ee, :

teen to graduation the Italian} Two courses are now open tO} valuable asset. He may go into Offer congratulation to
youth goes through a strict and|/him. He may serve regularly| politics, some department of the| SLIPS THAT PASS IN THE||/those graduating and best
intensive military training, and|in the office of his senior, study-| Civil Service, law lecturing, or é NIGHT. wishes for the future.

passes the exams of military|ing by himself in the meantimeé|jnto the financial, commercial, Our pleasure in serving
pilot at the same time es the|and upon the expiration of ajor industrial field. Whatever) Four-and-a-Half for In- Dalhousians has been real
pacific B. A. Mussolini has|year from the fyling of his|he takes up he will find that he|8tance.—Between four and five and we hope our happy
appealed to the Italian youth jarticles pass the first, second/has something which will give|bandits broke into the Earl relations may continue
and they have answered his call.|and third professional examin-|him a decided advantage over|Park State bank. — Indiana throughout the years to
The Polish students’ point of | ations of the Society at intervals | his legally untrained associate | P@Per: come.
view was explained to me by ajof a year between each. A fee} or competitor. rates aa
middle aged gentleman, whose|of Sixty Dollars is payable to
statements of the European di-|the Society for the first and the} The study of law does not| Fur Coats to the Squirrels / Henr Bi k & S
lemma are well received by|second examinations, respective-|consist of the memorization of |—-Wanted—Men and women to y PKS Ons
students of all nationalities be-|ly, and One Hundred Dollars|a fixed set of rules of semi-|sell from house to house, in uncause of their directness, of iheir|for the third. This method was| mystical origin. It has to do|occupied territories——Ad in the
justice and impartiality. He is| popular in the older days when|with a social instrument which| Calgary Herald.
himself a Pole. This man le-|!aw was a more leisurely profes- | affects daily individual liberty,
lieves that the student national-|sion, and a senior could devote | social justice and political evoism of 1905 is mild compared to|some time to the instruction of |lution.. Many advantages are
the patriotism of today. In his|his student. Now, however, | derived from the course in law.
opinion the most illiterate to|with the increasing complexity |The executives who direct the WHERE THE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE
the most learned, the poorest|of a modern law practice, the | activities of large business conto the richest wil] fight for the | desultory study which a student |cerns realize the benefit of a
Corridor. Polish students de-|must necessarily do by himself reconciliation of the need for

clare that historically and geo-|is not considered as satisfactory certainty and the attuning of 5 a
graphically the Corridor belongs|@ training as attending Law standards and rules to changing |§ . S N c WE A
to them and that a German in-|School following a carefully ar- political, economic and_ social

trusion will not be tolerated. |tanged.course of study, and the;conditions which law effects.
octet éF sdiah pce ue seenng of law’ has almost|The law even enters the home,
: ee entirely disappeared. By ar-|and the individual, if only to

she ay expose sae individual stu- rangement between Dalhousie | guard his personal interests, pro- FINE CLOTHING AND
ent opinion of the countries of| University ond The Barristers’ | fits by legal training. The young

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Little Entente (Roumania,| Society, most of the examina-| Galahad may moreover find in F URNISHIN GS

Czechoslovakia, Jugoslavia) but! tions in the Law School are also| the study of law a cal] to service
Mr.  Titulesco, ERG recognized | marked by an examiner of the|equal to that of his fellows in
head of the Litt'e Entente, de- Society, and a person holding|the ministering or healing arts.
clared to Daladier and MacDon-| the degree of LL. B. from Dal-|The leader of the Bar js not one
ald that the first move to rectify|housie University is exempted|who has provoked contesting
their frontiers means war; he has|from the three professional ex-| claimants into a lawsuit and then We have just completed five years of

 

 

even refused to discuss the pos-|aminations of the Society on|proceeded to run off wi :

ey _ Sas! Sy oor We: payments of*a fee of Twente saci His iikotien ee successful catering to Dalhousie students

ahah isn't he? And if the great] five Dollars at the time of his|stall their disagreement and, if with the finest in men’s clothing and
emocracies of the world were] application for admission. The| unsuccessful, he endeavours to eats =

half so vigorous there would be| time spent in the Law School] aid the court in adjudicating the furnishingsand wish to take this op
no chances of a European but-! also counts as : Aas : : :
: 3 part of the service] particular claim with fairness ortuni .
oe ee bars could only | under his articles. The require-|and in laying down principles p ity of thanking those graduates
ave made his declaration know-| ments for admission to the Law|for the future which will safe- (and there were many of them) who

ing that he was backed by stu-|School will be found at sOCi
pages; guard society and promote that : °
dents and governments. 91 and 92 of the University | peace, Sie and eon govern- favored us with their patronage and

Bi eelistoes may Uday Het Calendar. ment without which no commun- also to solicit from those who return
ity can exist and progress.

 

 

   

all Continental students sym- The prospective barrister upon next term— “a continuance of their trade.
ists: Polish, Little Entente, | q

| »}dent or certain members of The|/a phenomenally rich property—

French and on the other purely Barristers’ Society before a Su-]a property that is Aina aae tee

pathize with the English and the passing or exemption from
and integrally offensive nation
Canadian student movement, | pj, professional examinations,
1 | preme Court Judge an order is! ducing rich ore and that i
ae | : rt | ! é at appears
a en ete, chee made admitting the applicant; to be almost unlimited in expense, 30) Spring Garden Road
ans . y ninentaltas a Barrister and Solicitor.|—Ad in a Kansas paper.

   

oe ore it powerless in the]the service of the time under |
nine aie © eae his articles and the payment of} Tell the Truth if It Hurts.
students are, re ndics : ey ii. an admission fee of One Hundred|—The ——— Company is a busiBoat mart eee Ppt i. Dollars is now ready to be “‘call-|ness proposition. It is organiz
y, hal-led”. On motion of the Presi-|ed to make money in developing
students who are pacifists are| He ; sa
| os e is now entitled to practise in
— ee to the Commun- the Nova Scotia and Federal
aaa ete - oe are pacifists Courts, and can usually be adin Goctrine; and remember that mitted to any other provincial] What Price the One that

bar by passing an oral examin-|Got Away/—A _ striped — bass Discount of 10% to students.

 

 

fees. Students from other pro-!Sacramento River near Chico

 

 

this}This is the first catch of its -WHERE THE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE

=

{local bar examinations without! Bee.


MEM Sea ta oo method, or write their own|ki
bite - (Continued to col. 6) _ , heir own|kind this season.— Sacramento

i A
ath ang vi, re ae
' et apt + ~ 
~ » fi i. a ey =" 4 - * ss 5 . + : 7
eet ae DY, se ee ee Z > ME ’ =
, re 4 ‘ Z . om . Ree 2

 

   

c te =,
ee oe is ot a rs =, =o = a _—

f
=i a in ia
 — Ce set a ee a ee ee

>

 
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
   
    
    
    
     
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
    
  
  
     
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
     
     
  
  
    
    
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

‘getting. his eyes full of

TI hose men dow there were

: t getting very far. Every
e they dug away some sand)

winds blew some more into)

cavity.

would be wiser to stop and

until the wind went down.

sesides it was all nonsense

an yhow.

iP alaces indeed.

‘om a soft brain.

_ Any school-child knew that

~ those Canadians of the twentieth
century” were nothing but sav
= trying to say they had
ma government anda sort |
: ree lization.
~ Why that was 5000 years |
‘ St iago and mankind, even now, is
pr savage enough to wage war.
The ridiculousness of saying
this was an ancient seaport.
at the ocean had ever covered
vast stretch of desert.
Why these ruins were in Lati
ee Brains 44°39’ and Longitude 63°37’
and the nearest sea was at Long.
69° and Lat. 43°—over 260
; “miles away. And there were
any hills and a smal] mounrange in between.
ES ‘Aniibody could see that these
ruins were nothing but the ruins
of an old stone fort. A subsi“> *diar iary to that other fort on the
higher hill a half mile away.
Pe Ee ch fort guarded a valley leading out to the desert beyond.
This one covered an area about
00 yds. by 400 and protected
Esthet long narrow valley leading
7. to the north-west. The other

protected the much wider and
it valley on the other side.
The hilly.spot in between the
~. two valleys had doubtless been
ie — hide-out of a strong band
oe robbers and freebooters.

cs 7 From here they were within
asy striking” distance of two
at caravan routes. It was
=p all simple. enough if one did not
ey let one’s imagination run away
with one.

‘ Ps Pct ee seaports, ancient capibe tad te of a civilized kingdom. Bah.
BS (Editor's Note Halifax is in,
5  camnetily, Lat. 44°39’ and}:
_ Long. 63°37’. Dalhousie campus is, approximately, 500 yds.
by 400 yds. The North West
Be hen is a long narrow body of
cE Be water running off to the northb west, from the sea.).

————>+e—_—_

-,
a
~

.
iP

a % 4
eo

More New Diet Fads. —
_ Wanted — A young or middlee aged woman for cooking. |
Bry <7 Florence (Cal.) paper.
Apple-sauce from cans and
chubby children is a nature]
and wholesome combination.—
a Breakfas! hints in a New Jersey

Becerr’

 

ONLY

| realize how easy it is to

| leave the wrong impression.
_ | Particular men do not lay

_ | themselves open to harsh

| criticism by wearing soiled
_ | laundry. Dare you run the

_| risk of offending when for
- | a few cents you can appear

i | immaculate by sending

_ | your work to the

‘dias Veeied Pie Hen: to |

 

-Rof Erb must be suffering

~ The Dalhousie

Committee of

‘The l.S.S.

Annual Report 1932-1933.

 

The work of this Committee
during the past year was mainly
divided into two parts; the provision of entertainment for the
‘unemployed and for underprivileged children, and the establishment of an employment bureau for Dalhousie students.

For the purpose of carrying
on the first part of this program,
a tag day was held on December
7th. The net receipts from this
amounted to $29.81. This sum
was used to provide reading
‘matter and playing cards for
the use of the men quartered at
Citadel Hill. A number of contributions of books, etc. were
also received and used for this
purpose. The Dal Glee Club
presented their very successful

minstrel show at Citadel Hill

where it was greatly appreciated
by the men. Much credit is
due to Mr. Murray and Mr.
Weitz for their help in connection with this show.

Work among the under-privileged boys of the city has been
carried on at the Y. M. C. A.
Mr. Mutch, the President of the
S. C. M., has been very active
in this work. This is an excellent example of the close cooperation which everywhere ex
ists between I. S. S. and the
ee AES
The Student Employment

Committee was composed of
Mr. Donald (Chairman), Miss
Ena Carber, and. Mr. W. H.
Jost. In spite of many difficulties, they were able to report a
successful year. It is hoped
that, in the future, the members
of the faculty will see their way
clear to give more work to
students through this committee.
‘A small amount of remunerative
work is often very welcome to
those who are suffering under a
severe financial handicap.

The Committee regret deeply
that the students of Kings University have found it impossible
to take part officially in the
work of I. S. S.. Individual] students have, however, been of
very great assistance. ;

On the whole, the Committee
is able to report a successful
year. The need for the type
of work which has been carried
on has been amply demonstrated
and it is the earnest hope of all
the members that some students
will be found who can carry it
on during 1933-34.

J. FLINT CAHAN,

Chairman.

 

LEGAL NOTICE.

WHEREAS my activities in
the past two months have been
incompatible with my erstwhile
principles, and

WHEREAS the canons of antifeminism are a direct antithesis
to my present desires, and

WHEREAS there are intelligent women in Dalhousie,

IT IS THEREFORE RESOLVED by me, the President
of the Anti-Feminist League, to
repudiate any and all affiliation
of any kind or character with
the said League.

(Signed) Ex-president of the
Anti-Feminist
League.

Signed and sealed betore me, on
this the First day of April, in the
year of our Lord Nineteen Hundred and Thirty-three.

~ ELMER ZILCH,

Notary Public.

 

Blue Law.— w areham

| Town meetin’ decrees that. “all

  
 
 
  

ersons within the town owning

  

? oe, shalk be muzzled.”’—‘‘SevBoo Years ee column in

ton Tr meer er. oe hren .

Pe £ Sn .

   

| reason. ;

"DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Page Seven

 

Gaoliiay in the

In the long run thinking is
more effective than armouring.
This statement is as true today
as it has been proved to be true
throughout geological time. The
armour of the dinosaurs in the}
course of time has not proved
iso effective as the brain development of the highest mammals.
When the first ape-man came
into existence he soon found
that not only was it possible
to outmanoeuvre his enemies
but that the inanimate things
about him were available for
him to use.

At first he used sticks sad
stones, later he found that those
stones were not all the same and
in the course of long ages he
came to appreciate the uses to
which different stones could be
put.

Man’s intelligence evolved and

gradually the search for stones
and materials Jed him to explore
and inquire into the mode of
occurrence of the useful stones
and beautiful minerals. Thus
it came about that an intelligent
interest was taken in the hunt
for what he deemed useful and
precious. In time this interest
turned to all stones and minerals
and the subject of stones for
their own sake and not solely
for their utility became his endeavour. This inquiry into
stoney materials—what they are,
whence they have come and
whither they are going—constitutes Geology.
- A subject which has caused
migration, has thrown nation
against nation, has determined
national characteristics is one
which is worthy of study. It
affects history, philosophy, the
arts, medicine and science.

The study of Geology is of
value, quite apart from the
points which have been raised,
because it can supply at least
five essential features in educa
tion. These five features are
as follows :—
I. Observation — Modern

civilization has tended to destroy
the powers of observation in
those who enjoy its blessings.
The man who spends his days
in an office and whose orbit is
from office to home, too often
by tram, has his newspaper and
a sense of security. Heknows
that there is a policeman to
keep him in comparative safety
and that his food is ordered and
will be cooked in time for hic
meals. This applies to the man
who has money enough to buy
meals and a ticket! In fact in
the life he leads he does not
require to be an observer. The
native on the other hand has to
observe, has to be continually
on the lookout for food and
menaces whether these be leopards or snakes. The result is
that he sees a great deal mote
than his sophisticated “‘ brother.”’

Charles Darwin taught the
civilized world that it was really
missing a great deal of interes’,
a great deal of value and a
great deal of beauty by not
observing. He observed and the
book in which he recorded his
observations and generalizations
did more than any other book
of the 19th Century to shake up
the conceit of a self satisfied
world.

Il. Reasoning — Geology
is not by any means the only
subject that develops the power
to reason—Mathematics is probably the surest channel for human thought that exists. A mathematician on the earth might
safely assume that a mathematician on a far away star would
know that the angles at the base
of an isoseles triangle are equal
to each other. It could not be
likewise asserted that a geologist
on the earth would reason like a
geologist on a far away star!
Nevertheless from the careful
observation of an outcrop real
facts can be deduced and hence
the reasoning power is developéd. There must be something
1o reason about if one is going to

the Community
By
C. VIBERT DOUGLAS

purpose of memorizing.

  
  
   
   

University and

 

III.
develops accuracy, for if an
observation is to be of value it
must be accurate.

IV. Memory — The training of the memory is accomplished by a course in Geology. It is
not only a word memory that is
developed but also a three dimensional mental picture that
must be formed. Apart from
Geology and Engineering the
study of Anatomy is possibly the
only subject that can develop
this particular phase of memory.

V. Imagination — Poetry,
archaeology, and above all astronomy and geology fire the
mind of man to probe into the
unknown and set up hypotheses
to explain that which is not
evident. The humanities do the
same thing. A man or woman
whose imagination is rightly
aroused gets more out of life
and gives more to life, than one
who sees only realities. Furthermore imagination is required for
the understanding of humanity
and anything that can further

such understanding shou'd be
sedulously cultivated.

Geology is an _ intrinsica'ly
honest subject and the study of
the earth if not carried on honestly leads the dishonest observer very soon to a pit.

If Earth-Science is studied
thoroughly it requires endurance,
courage and a fundamentally
honest approach. Modern civilizations require these virtues.
It will be a great day for Canada
and the world when it can be
said of those who have attended
a university that they have no
price, their word is their bond
and they know not fear.

Ed. Noie This article was
written by Professor Douglas al

the request of ihe Gazette.

 

STUDENTS OR SPONGES.
By B. Lebasi.

There has been some favorable
comment lately on the fact that
the “students” have been paying
more frequent visits to the library than in past years. This
is indeed a hopeful sign if it
means that these Dalhousians
are going there for the purpose
of studying and reading and not
fareas. | fear is the case, the
It is
the fault of the too diversified
curriculum, the lecture system,
and the unfortunate attitude
of most of our professors that
they encourage the undergraduate to cultivate his memory
rather than his thinking powers.
When the supine minds of the
high school graduates come into
contact with these encouragements they immediately fall under the spell and promptly acquire that listless, vacant attitude that so distinguishes the
Dalhousian from the average
citizen of Halifax though the
citizen is rarely a ‘‘go-getter

How much real good this
sudden attention to the library
is doing may be seen by watching
the students as they straggle
into the library on any evening.
A more enervating atmosphere
can scarcely be found anywhere
outside of the lecture room and
a more ‘‘vacant-looking”’ w oebegone set of countenances is
not to be seen anywhere outside
of the exam room. I fear that
this increased attendance at
the library merely means a
larger number of combination
phonographs, parrots and rubber stamps. One rarely finds a
real student among Dalhousians
and if one of them does happen
to be possessed of an enquiring
mind he usually turns out to
be a freshman who will soon
forget how to say “Why?”
~ How?” ‘‘What is your authority?” and, by the time he is
a sophmore, will only know
how to say ‘yes sir.’

In all this there is at least is
one ray of sunshine—a Dalhousie graduate need never be
in the bread-line—he should
always be able to get a job as a

té

sponge.

Accuracy — Geology

    
       
         
  
     
     
         
       

CiG

IT PAYS TO SMOKE
TURRETS

Wonderful Gifts
for POKER HANDS

Smokers of Turret Cigarettes are today receiving gifts of exceptional value for poker hands.

With the enormous sale of Turrets comes an
equally great demand for gifts. This creates a
tremendous buying power which means extra
value in the gifts, which are absolutely Free.
Send for the complete list or drop into the
nearest Poker Hand Premium Store—see what
valuable articles you can get when you smoke
Turrets —not to mention a cooler, sweeter,
more satisfying smoke.

Tur and Mildness

 

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

 
 

An added attraction to any
card game—you will find this
to be one of the handsomest,
sturdiest, lightest and most
easily erected card tables,
Black duco finish with waterbroof, decorative top,

  

rret

ARETTES

 

 

   

SAVE THE POKER HANDS

 

Students In Europe

 

So long as he remains at home,
the Englishman can afford to
snap his fingers at the Gold
Standard. The pound may have
depreciated, but the cost of living has not increased by a penny
and one watches the fluctuations
of sterling merely with the same
sort of sporting interest that
attaches to a cricket match in
Australia. But the moment one
steps abroad, a very different
state of affairs holds good. When
every cup of coffee, every packet
of cigarettes, every night's accommodation costs just 380%
more than it ought to, it speedily becomes clear that unless
some. very special methods of
travelling can be found there
will be nothing for it but to
stay at home. In these somewhat difficult circumstances
English students are in increasing numbers making use of the
various special facilities which
are fortunately open to students
on the Continent, and the Travel
Department of the English National Union of Students is making it its business to assist them
in every way possible.

In several European countries,
the local students have established camps where the cost of
living is almost absurdly low.
Still better for anyone who wants

” la sightseeing holiday are the

tours which can be made by
using Youth Hostels. Especially in Germany these hostels
have reached a very high standard of efficiency. For a shilling a night one is given a ciean
and comfortable bed. Some of
the continental] universities own
mountain huts and although the
individual foreign traveller is not
as a rule admitted to them, parties can, by previous arrangement, secure accommodation.
Parties of students travelling
together moreover, receive good
reductions on the railway fares
aie in some cases to
nearly 50%.

While cheapness is now more
than ever important to the
English student traveller, he
wants a tour that has more
positive characteristics to recommend it than merely the fact
that it is cheap. He wants a
tour which will give him a closer
insight into the country he is
visiting than the superficial
voyages of guide book inspection
which are so often made by
visitors in a strange land—the
obedient herds which are led
round the conventionial sights

by a shepherd with gold braid
on his hat. He wants to learn
something of the outlook of the
people among whom he is living.
He wants to meet their students
and exchange the student point
of view. It is the particular
object of the English National
Union of Students to arrange
tours which satisfy these requirements.

In the company of their British colleagues a considerable
number of Dominion students
have taken part in these tours.
Members of the National Federation of Canadian University
Students are assured of a welcome place in them. The individual traveller who may
bave a few other European contacts will find after only a matter
of hours in such a student group
that he has extended his circle
of closest friends.

Further information on these
travel facilities may be obtained
from the National Union of
Students, 38 Endsleigh Street,
London, W. C. 1, England.

 

Out Where Men Are Men. —
Ralph Hickman came home from
San Marcos the last of the week,
and is handling ice while he is
resting.— Texas paper.

Plausible Surmise.—
BELIEVES SUICIDE
ENDED OWN LIFE
— Headlines in the Harrisburg
Telegraph.

Frail Beauties. —We were
fortunate in securing 500 more
pairs of these wonderful stockings. Regular $1.00 value. We
do not guarantee them to Jast
all day.—Ad in the El Paso
Times.

 

Don’t Wring ‘Em too Hard.
LAUNDRYMEN TO
TAKE WOMEN OUT
OF THE WASHTUB.
— Headlines in the Chattanooga
News.
-—_—+-e___—_

“Tt is strange the number of
people who listen attentively to
good sermons and addresses,
who read good books—who rub
shoulders with clever people—
whose minds are absolutely im
pervious to the reception of ideas | ea

affecting their own conduct.’’—
Margaret Rennell,

 
   
   

oie 1! ‘Take: a Ride. In
| The New Tumbleweed Six

 

A certain portly and exorbi
- tantly pompous gentleman has
of recent appeared upon the
campus to disrupt and even
destroy the happy tranquillity


I had the opportunity the{oth
day to take epcee 20 oe <a

£ our collece existence. Hel|latest model Tumblewe ix

8 by dn ee cctMe Ezekiel] motor car. Of course all my

Soursausage, and the cognomen readers will have seen or read

is apt indeed. He advocates a about those lovely, soft-to-the
~ preposterous creed. of abolition|eyes, Tumbleweeds. |The ae .

generally, ranging all the way ticular model in which I rede

from triple perambulators in] was of a deep-toned, blood-ma
Moscow to pink night shirts, |roon colour. Its mudguards

and amongst all the dreadful|were smartly skirted and the

evils which have commended | windshield tilted back in a rakish

themselves 10 him foi attention,|}manner. The two great bowl
the question of Freshman ini-|type headlamps, of highly polish
tiation at Dalhousie is one. He{ed chromium, — sparkled r Ws

has, unfortunately, been able|gleamed like diamonds on re

ane ay upon the inexperienced velvet. As I approached it, [,

cei of several otherwise| thought that I had never seen a

nérmal University figures, in-|car before which was, at once,

spiring them to frenzied zeal|so dignified and so modern, so

for the salvation of our college | majestic and yet so dear-to-ev
by vivid and terrible accounts ery-heart. [ entered. The

| of the inevitable catastrophe|seats were as soft as a king's

B: attendant upon this seemingly chesterfield. It had all the con
harmless and jovial practise. | vemiences of a Pullman compart
‘In a recent address to the|ment. The instrument panel

oe student body Mr. Soursausage, | Was so arranged that it might be

| dutifully yet feebly acclaimed read at a glance, but I was amaz
ler by his loyal adherents, made] ed at the beautifully artistic way

the following inspiring and pro-|1" which the makers had fashfound statements: ~ ioned it.

“Tadies and gentleman, I fight sige .
against an evil in our civiliza- The owner invited me to drive

= . more|and I eagerly accepted. It

; ee yn thas the| started easily, the motor turning
‘combined influence of war, can-| Over almost without noise. As |
cer, and strawberry ice cream. accelerated it, there was no

I refer to the soul searing prac-|heaving throb, nor high whining
tise of being mirthful which has pitch. I could hear only.a soft
et ensnared its tentacles deep into|rone, the sound of limitless
ger ae heart of human nature, speed and power. I changed

z at ! e: . . 2
oa dire results that unless| gears without effort, for the

hurl our race| fumbleweed has adopted the
Sen af eee Here} Synchronized, inter-mesh Gripseveral a his staunchest stip-|P° transmission. The owner adpra! t a alled by the omin- vised me to try it out in the open
Pot ae ae fk his remarks and|country, where could test it

Ks Se ing with guilty remorse, under every condition. Its
AMT aN prehensively in their |Speed and easy control in traffic
: sate ba that the remaining astounded me and, almost before

ea a I could realize it, we had left
\bolitionists, unable by lack of aie : :
iacditsente to follow their gos- the city’s crowded artery; we
pel’s oration and thinking that} were out of the dusky, canyonuproariously like city streets and into the free

ae ee nat the time|glorious countryside. I increas
i use and thundered |ed the speed of the Tumbleweed
BO en eon vociferously, without any discomfort,—Killwhereupon Mr. Soursausage im- jolt’s automatic, oil shock-abmediately forgot his terrible sorbers protected us from every
; warning and beamed hugely from|bump or rut in the road. We
ear to ear while his chest re- approached a knob-like hill and,

I Cornet nobly to the occasion with no loss in speed, attained

; unsuccessfully |its dull, grey, barren crest of
Sere. ae arith he stone and gilded down the other

magnificent proportions of hi
stomach ._ x
“It is wicked to laugh!

| tinued Mr. Soursausage, his hab| itual acidic scowl reinstated to|Spread out beneath like an em
a erald green carpet. A little,
thet a Aes summer-shallow river meandered
Sane ie by merriment, along the bottom, its bank apdoubly dreadful because the in-|P€@ring like a a gash in the
itiates enjoy the process just/€arth, as though b Spa ae
as much as the initiators them- the cut of a supernatural knife.
selves.” | ploughed acre nearby, gave

After delivering this weighty er a pee ae : aoe
‘and conclusive argument Mr.|° eo feor the knife ha
E-. Soursausage paused again to|*P/@shed there.

Pe sun himself in the noisy demon| | strations of approval hearti.y
supplied by those of his disciples
whose vocabulary was extensive

#

eae
v 4

we created, whipping at our hats
con-|and raising clouds of dust behind us. The valley below was

 

Never before had I ever been
able to enjoy nature so much
while motoring. My descrip
: tion of the valley was from a
only in unorthodox methods of Se deneudaey|ielimipse. The

expression and who consequent- Tumbleweed had us safely there

SS. ignorant of what in what seemed a second. We

s thumped across an old rustyMe. : = Pp ie te of a streaked iron bridge with a loose
ee ar, ned ors Adee te belie board floor, and passed through

| oe mgs A Shae +t was| 22 avenue of tall chestnut trees,
_ suf eee with equally uncon-| W0se limbs formed a green arch
(.  Fespren 5 te pectin above us. It looked cool, but
f oe .. € ve eosin ‘elect sabe we did not linger to feel, for the
___ to take a prodigt : _| Tumbleweed Company had pro
_ the audience present. It is ob-| i40q self-acting. individual
Ro chct. Mr. Sourseasace lias self-acting, individual conae te ui a Eanes Hevekinel trols and what cared we for the
pet! oo Be fee ee pertection sun's blistering rays. I shall not
toa. Ig : ee aie kes bore you with the rest of that
oe it ye e if all too deeply Journey: It is only necessary
has root mseli all to P'Y!to say that, when home, I inquired about the price of the
lovely, soft-to-the-eyes, Tumble
 
    
  
 
  
     
     
  
    
        
    
  
      
    
     
  
  
 
  
 
  

oa

cots

fs:
oe
into college society so that another fine old tradition must
ay _ fade dimly into the past he weed and determined to own one
___ Pleasant memory never to be/ whenever my bank reopens.
forgotten by those fortunate
enough to have entered college}
_ life as have uncounted others
from time immemorial. |
ae eds | *

 

Px
ce
~*

RN sry * sa Fc “Politicians have always bater THE COWHERD. i bid on ee tcey ie economic
Ren Peak oe eee Lillertacy.”— Merle Thorpe.
A Tough Job—In a London)
_ school for waiters the pupils| “Having eyes, they see not—
n to carve on wooden models. and ears, they hear not” is about
dea i ¢ ckens/the worst indictment that can
lay|be made of any man or woman.
| Margaret Pennell.
. ee |) - £ f

“42 1 et

s| Side, the whistleing wind, which!

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

The Great Illusion

T. A. GOUDGE, M.A.

 

Man has a constitutional
weakness for edifying myths.
In every age from the most
primitive to the most enlightened, he has indulged in the manufacture of comforting illusions to
serve his devious ends. ‘These
illusions are always held with
the passionate conviction born
of credulity, and in so far as
they are consolatory, their usefulness to the projanum vulgus
must be admitted. But to those
who value intellectual integrity,
this purchasing of edification at
the expense of truth is so abhorrent, that they feel compelled
to buy back truth even at the
cost ot infinite scandal.

University education is one
of the great 1'lusions of our time.
Never before has public belief
in the superlative value of educational institutions been so
widespread; never have there
been so many thousands of
young people sent to campus
and classroom. Occasiona'ly,
it is true, solitary protests may
be heard against the absurdity
ot this mass-education, but as
yet the critics are voices crying
in the wilderness. The general
attitude is well exemplihed in
the prospectus of a large college
which assures us that:

in order to meet the needs of

the present day, it is neces
sary tor every man and woman to receive the benefits of

a un.versity education.

Such sublime faith is indeed
touching. How dismally remote
it is from the cold, hard facts
ot the case, the following few
paragraphs will endeavour to
indicate.

But first of all, what is the
proper function of a university,
and what should its ideal be?
Opinions difler widely here, but
it may be said that in the last
analysis the worth of a college
education depends on _ three
things, the extent to which it
develops character, stimulates
intellectual life, and cultivates
the spiritual values. That is to
say, unless a student leaves his
Alma Mater with habits of
courage, integrity, and clean
living instilled in him; with a
mind active, skeptical and free
from the wanton tyranny of
herd-opinion; with an outlook
broadened by books and made
sympathetic by refinement; with
a devotion to all that is true and
beautiful and good,—unless he
has achieved these things in
some measure, his education has
failed. In short, only by equipping men and women with a set
of values that will enable them
to pierce the shams and hypocrisies of modern ‘civilization’,
can we hope to _ produce the
leaders that the world so sorely
needs to transform its chaos into
some semblance of unity.

It would no doubt be unreasonable to expect our colleges
to embody such an ideal completely But is surely fair to
inquire whether they approximate it. In my opinion, they
do not. The truth seems to be
that universities do not even
try to educate students in the
above sense. They cannot, for
they have become like huge
factories. whose job is the mass
production of graduates quickly,
easily and plentifully. The public demands it, and when the
public pipes, the universities
must dance. True, they do hold
lectures at which attendance jis
compulsory, and in which orthodoxies are piled like Pelion
on Ossa to demonstrate the
magnificent wisdom of the status
quo. They also stage periodical
examinations which exalt the
virtues of mere memory, imitativeness, and the willingness
to absorb other people's ideas,
and which a parrot could pass
equally well. And finally, they
distribute degrees whose real
value is confined to the ink and
parchment of which they are
composed. But these things
have absolutely nothing to do
with real education; in fact they
obstruct the progress of real
education by their stupid for
mality. No more successful engines for the suppression of intellectual life could possibly be
devised. Yet it is by their
means alone that our universities seek to disseminate culture.
Surely this is the greatest illusion that has ever been perpetrated by man.

If empirical evidence of the
gross failure of the existing educational system be desired, it
can be found abundantly among
the majority of undergraduates.
How many of them are interested in what Browning rightly
called the most important thing
in life, namely, the development
uf their souls? To ask the question is to answer it. Watch
their faces as they cross the
campus. Those of the men are
pleasant and handsome; those
of the women comely, or even
beautiful. But all are depressingly vacant, devoid of any expression that would indicate a
yearning of the mind, a striving
after intensity of thought and
feeling, the touch of any flame.
Listen to their conversation. It
is incurably trivial, concerned
almost entirely with dances,
shows, games, examinations;
never with art, science, religion,
philosophy, or the great subjects that should occupy the
minds of men. ‘These things
excite no spontaneous interest.
Students will study them readily
enough in order to pass examinations, but that anyone should
find them intrinsically worth
while, is an inscrutable mystery.

 

Lectures and
Learning

Is there anything wrong with
the lecture system in vogue in
our colleges? The answer to
this question is, emphatically,
yes. The lecture system as it
stands today is an antiquated
method of imparting knowledge
in the least efficient, most roundabout manner. Antiquated because it is mellowed with age;
inefficient because its mere abolishment would improve things
enormously; round-about beCause it carries a tremendous amount of wasted time and energy. Indeed, it is so wasteful
in time and over-spending in energy that one wonders why the
technocrats have not used it in
their reform platform. Certainly, Mr. Scott could have never
gone to college.

There is a touch of pathos in
which professors continue to
give the same lectures term after
term. Did it never occur to
them to have their lectures printed and distributed among the
students. Such a step would
well be warranted under the
present system. Professors and
students would save the hours
wasted in class rooms. The
laborious task of copying down
notes would be done away with.
The ambitious student could
forge ahead. The others could
do as they have always done;
study the notes a week or two
before the examination and return them without interest on a
sheet of foolscap.

The defects in the lecture
system are obvious. Yet nobody seems to care, and least of
all the students; for what may
be a poor way of learning is an

And so the person who takes easy method of getting a degree.

them seriously, who reads Plato,
or Shakespeare, or Montaigne,

[t is simply a matter of take and
give; obtain a good set of notes,

or Spinoza, for the sheer delight | ejther by attending class and

of it, who is curious about the
immortality of the soul, or the

genius of Mozart, or the glory of | done.

scribbling or by looking up grand
father’s old files, and the deed is
A person with a good

Michael Angelo, is regarded as|memory can do it easily, others

a freak, harmless enough, but
not well-balanced, and certainly
not fit to enter the economic
war we call “society.”

What the average student
gets from college, then, is the
opportunity to complete his ad
olescence amid interesting and
healthy surroundings, to make
pleasant friendships, to enjoy
the raptures of love-making, to
exercise his athletic ability, and
incidentally to pick up amusing
scraps of knowledge with the
minimum exertion. But that
is all. His inner life remains
unchanged. No profound intellectual passion has been aroused in him; no habit of independent judgment formed; no
spiritual fire kindled. He returns to his community with the
same tastes and prejudices as
his fellows. He runs with them
after the heroes and fads of the
hour, and becomes a staunch
citizen. While on his wall hangs
an impressive university degree,
hxloed. with the glamour of a
great illusion.

How long this state of affairs
will be tolerated, no one can say
At present there seem to be
hopeful indications that a change
for the better is at hand. If we
can succeed in instilling into
the umMiversities more of the
spirit of Socrates, and less of
the spirit of cramping formalism,
we shall have done something.
For when all is said, the ignorance and folly of men cannot be
cured by institutions alone.
They can only be cured by
education, which means patient
study, quiet meditation, intellectual integrity, and a life devoted to the service of truth.

+ pee

A noted French author is an
enthusiastic advocate of a common world language. He scoffs
at the idea of making English
the universal tongue, and relates
his own difficulties in trying to
master our language.

‘When I discovered that if I
was quick I was fast; that if I
was tied I was fast; if I ram a
round with the girls I was fast;
and-I grew discouraged. But
when I came across the sentence
‘‘The first shall be last and the
oe first)’ I gave it up as hopeess.

with a little more difficulty. It
is not a matter of learning but
rather a matter of memorising.
It is possible to pass in some arts
classes without doing a stroke of
work until two weeks before the
examination, yet one has to attend college for seven months.
Under certain circumstances
the lecture has a significant value
in learning. The trouble lies
in the fact that in our colleges it
is not used properly. There, it
is a matter of dictating facts to
be copied down in note books.
The lecturer knows what he is
talking about, but his audience
probably, has never been over
the ground before, The lecturer talks, usually in a very sterotyped style, while the student
copies his words down with as
much compunction as if they
were pearls of wisdom. The
whole business hasa mechanical
aspect about it, as if lecturer and
students were robots. It is an
absurd use of the lecture and
leaves no meaning in its wake.
The lecture can only impart
true learning under two circumstances, neither of which are
found frequently in our colleges.
When the audience is well informed on the subject, it has a
specific merit. No longer is the
lecturer dictating facts. He is
squaring them off, classifying
them; presenting new combinations, another angle of opinion.
No longer is the audience a humdrum machine for copying down
facts. They are checking them
off, analysing them, and forming

 

Music in all Branches. Teacher’s

Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.
MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A.,

  

Principal

a a ag ge

———$—$—$—$—$—$ ee ————__—_——_ _.
NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

Halifax Ladies College

Conservatory of Music

May 16th, 1938

el

Locomotives

The road foreman of the Central Vermont Railway gives the
following quite excellen! reasons
why locomotives are spoken of
as ‘“‘she.”’ For instance: they
wear jackets and pins, yokes,
shields, and stays. They have
aprons and laps too. Not only
do they have shoes, but pumps
and even hose; while they drag
trains behind them. They also
attract attention with puffs and
mufflers, and sometimes they
fume and refuse to work. At
such times they need to be
switched. They need guiding,
and require a man to feed them.
They all smoke; but most characteristic of all, they are far
steadier when hooked up.

Be ha ea cee ik Sa

At a certain college in Iowa
the male students are not permitted to visit the resident female boarders. One day a male
student was caught in the act
of doing so, and was arraigned
before the President.

‘", Mr. Crease, the penalty
for the first offense is 50 cents;
for the second, 75 cents; for the
third, $1, and so on, rising to $5.’

After pondering a few moments our hero replies: ‘“‘ How
much would a season ticket
cost—”’

depen ote

They Keep Digging Away.

Gold production in Canada
sets new monthly record. There
must be no depression for gold
diggers——Cleveland News.

 

their own opinions. Such a lecture is a clearing house for ideas,
and learning becomes a reality.
The lecture is also valuable and
a real aid to learning when the
lecturer is a born teacher. Then
the approach and personality of
the lecturer in handling his Subject imparts learning to the listeners.

There is no learning in the
average college lecture. It
claims to impart knowledge and
wisdom, but there is absolutely
no connecting link between dictating and learning.

HALIFAX TAXI CO
B.7376

 

 

At your

Service

 

  

  

G. A. McDonald

Tobacconist

   
  
 

Complete Range of Pipes

25c. to $7.00
21 Spring Garden Road

   
  
 
 

 

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

 

 

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

 

 
   
 
   
    
  
    
 

UPPER AND LOWER
SCHOOL

Household Science: Teacher's
and Dietitian’s Certificate.

Certificate, Graduation Diploma.

MR. HARRY DEAN

Director of Conservatory

F
ENGINEERING COURSES

IN
CIVIL ELECTRICAL, MECHAN

ICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with In

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

dustrial Experience

Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each,

. Write or call_for Calendar or advice.

 

F, H. SEXTON, Pres.

  

 

 

   
 
 
  
    
     
      
        
  
 
   
       
   
 
 

EN Ly PA eg eg ie eee ee co wotet So — : " oar og a — SS a — = = o— . i a re er Se ino rmtey Sa i a Ee Pe
i ee ee ee See gee att
es RPO.” Z ne . a a oi . Sy ee Pp aS q iE ~ ike en Eh Fa 3 ne = , See, oe rT S ™ ail ‘ a
ere a ay “+ Se ie rg Z ene " - as a 4 b y tS 7 7 a * Sp eh, 2 fed 4 Y Pm “a 4 i + ae * . ue % fs 2 f ‘ ete e a uy - n ; Nt »
Beet nek tie ee Ne ee Se one ae a eae Eee on Eo, Fh ={ nee a } Lean,
3 oS a *. » Sn ao a0 - fee , om wu he a7 “A om ~ i) at > Nae “Ss, - * < ; i 7 ‘s ‘ 5
a Oe oe ' bei ac Ne AE eS oe - Aone eg SN IT a sb 1} iat
BM ee a eee Ree ne Se ae eH
a cool aA re aa ee > dae — x . oy Ti e = eo t ae ‘ . Se ~ ‘ >.
S700 or : . ‘
Be eee DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Page Nine
= i 5
Sas ( ° o . e
] Pag: eg a. "The Dilciliate. Competitors For Icing Sugar Silent Chords
= . > :

    
   
    
  
   
    
    
  
   
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
   
    
    
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
    
    
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  

rat a glorious. day thie has
i} At dawn the song of the
is awoke me and I arose and
ced slowly through the misty
lig light of the early morning. At
first. the world was a pale young
fe: iden but soon she was blushJing at. the thought of her approaching wedding. Brave and
z Apollo came to claim his
eo “Dear Charles, how I
thought. of you as | gazed on
“consummation devoutly
to be wish’d,” and how happy I
Was, on my return home, to find
es a letter from you waiting ex pectantly in the mail-box. Patient little letter with its precious
contents, waiting there for me
to come and read it through a
_ thousafid times. But a thousee and times were too few! Noone
ever wrote such letters as my
Charles! He told me that I was
- : ~ the: most beautiful girl in the
world and that he would love
ee me forever. Other people have
_ said that too but our love is different. Such a pure, perfect
flower of devotion could not
tae P fade and die, leaving only a
ee. withered stalk, that is what my
_ heart would be if anything ever
a Mappensd to Charles.—just a
withered stalk. While I was
_ thinking of this I felt far away
from the earth and commonme Re place things, but alas! I dropsr 48 ped the platter that I was washs Ene and it broke into a million
_ very small pieces. Aunt Miree was simply furious. Truly}!
; “ie dreams must always be spoiled
: e oa ~ like that. .. . the frail fragile bub| ble of fancy is pricked by the
i hard nail of fact. After another
Be world has opened for me and as- cended into strange, lovely reoF gions of thought then the old
platter has to go and fall. I go
up and it goes down and then I
have to come down too, Truly
q ‘as ife has its ups and downs.
ae tl nat is rather good. Just
et Le ow I hear the newest piece on
Na ee radio—soft and romantic,
a but not too sentimental. I hate
m mawkish sentiment. The piece
iis. ‘really awfully sweet. I heard
it once before, when Charles and
I were dancing. Charles whispered ‘“That song was written for
us”. He says the dearest things,
I can still hear his voice as he
Fe) eh said: ‘That song was written for
a us." And then—oh dear, there
is Aunt Miranda calling me.

ag
-—
im
ay

Bis

ae

til to-morrow.

a>

Pa

 

a B. Rogers Wins
_ Essay Prize

Ben Rogers, who will receive
a Arts degree this year has
eS excelled himself by winning the
Overseas League Essay Prize,
~ which is presented each year by
the Halifax Branch of the Over_ seas League, to the student writing the best essay on some question, historical or critical, relating to the position of the
- Overseas Dominions in the BritBE S ish Commonwealth.

St Ben came to Dalhousie from
_ Prince of Wales College and entos ered with a scholarship.
- Throughout his three years he
has maintained this standard
~ and although his scholastic re- eord is excellent, Ben firmly be- jieves that “all work and no
play’ would make him a very
dull boy; consequently his out_ side activities are many and
_ yaried. He is known as a wise
debater and his efforts in connection with the model League
of Nations, The Gazette, The
International Relations Club and
the S. C. M. have not gone un
ff
Es
oa rewarded by any means.

“ Congratulations Ben, and
~ Good Luck! |

7 . »

Br me. All is rsa and goes ac
- ~ cording to order, yet o’er our

. —Goethe.

fap

When i eas ea bear sway,

the p cod

_ Good-bye dear little diary, un-|

_ lifetime rules an uncertain fate.|

of . honor isa private

 

Student

(Continued from page 5)

no vehement Miltonic  statements upon the worth of freedom to the university student.
It never occurred to him to put
himself under restraint.

He selects a particular sport
and finds that he can excel in it.
He practises assiduously and attains the leading position. He
is defeated once or twice and his
interest wanes.

His dancing is of the slow,
dignified, detached variety. He
selects the dances he will attend.
He surveys the Co-eds and selects his partner for the evening.
This choice made, he makes no
more. He dances with her for
the whole evening. He comes
Jate and leaves early. He is
confident that the ball begins
when he arrives and declines
miserably when he leaves. It
has served its purpose.

He spends much of his time
oblivious to the presence of his
fellow students; but this is not
always so. True, most of the
common herd remain a herd as
far as he is concerned, but occasionally some person attracts
his attention, and he pursues
him deliberately to see what he
can offer. The novelty wears
away and interest dies until a
new object of interest detaches
itself from the background.

He fancies himself as a critic
of art, music, literature, oratory,
clothes, anything, in fact, that
may be criticised. His judgment is Janguid but discriminating. At any given moment it
is fairly sound on aj] but a few
subjects which he is actively
liking or disliking.

He relies on the glory of his
ancestors for his social position.
He is not pushy, but he is successful in gaining a certain intimacy with noted people. He
uses this background to show
that college is for him a mere passing event. He does not depend
on his university life for his whole
interest. His eggs have been
placed gently in several baskets.

He glides gracefully through
the University Jeaving his fel!ow
students to speculate. Was he
clever or stupid? Was he wise
or foolish? Who can say? He
was at any rate, an object of
interest and a ‘‘character’’ in
the University.

 

GEOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT RECEIVES GIFT.

For the past two months the
top floor of the Science building
has been reverberating to the
blows of many hammers. To
those actually interested in Geology it is no mystery but to the
aa number, to whom Geology

“Just rocks,” it needs explainice

The Carnaegie Institute -has
presented the Dalhousie Geoloeical Department with $125,000
whic h is being used to transform
the top floor of the science building into a model Geology school.

There is a well fitted up labratory for beginners in the subject with well equipped tables
for all kinds of work connected
with the subject.

This room is at one end; at
the other is a well lighted library
—classroom with excellent facilities for microscopic work.

Under the able guidance of
Prof; Douglas the new equipment is being most advantageously laid out.

The library will be open to all
students interested in the subject and will be well stocked with
books and_ periodicals.

Although this opportune gift
has been presented there is still
need of a few excellent microscopes to help the more advanced students in their work.

The department is now
equipped to give students a full
course in Geology which can
lead up to an M. A. in that subjéct; amyone interested can see
Prof. G. V. Douglas and secure
more details about the matter.

“Science is always wrong.

It never solves a problem without creating ten more.’—G. B.

é — Shakes: €: 4 Set We :
pes of =v a “ _ mh i *. eel: uJ
EF NES iptiaee ee ee he
RMR MRE ei tiag CC Some Pe Be 1
5 CT cig Oe hae SS oe es Sl a
a =. a eal ey be: cae ~~ apr 8 Pee fe bee T- .
a. Yt ve HS ae 4 Pea ah *, . 7 o>. 1 ft aly ie eee aa
at ee iit ie ee bi ee See Ct ae ee ee beet rie 4
aA ede * <a Rin ee ety ah, eg Ot Say
7 rey oo i: me : te ei ae e me ~ : ys cee, ole eon
Maia MS eis eS ES ON eS
: —— * -. ee man mi

 

MARY SIMMONDS

Next year the destinies of
Delta Gamma, a society of all
the co-eds of Dalhousie, will be
guided by Miss Mary Simmonds,
of Halifax. Mary attended the
Halifax County Academy, and
came to Dalhousie in 1930 to
study Commerce. Mary has
played on the basketball team
for three years. This year she
was secretary-treasurer of Delta
Gamma, a position she filled
most efficiently. All college activities have received her wholehearted support during her three
years at Dalhousie.

 

Greasy Grind

George is quiet, dull and studious. In habits he is very
methodical. Each morning at
precisely eight-thirty he starts
out for class with his many books
placed neatly in a large, initialed
satchel. This walk to college
and the return later in the day
are his only experiences with the
outside world unless George is
unexpectedly faced with the

necessity of. leaving his labours remember. I can’t remember|sprinkled with the white of age,
“fi but it|#@mes and I can’t remember] Suddenly the dream is shattered. 393 Barrington Street

and going down town,
would be a mistake to think, for
this reason, that he enjoys his
Opportunity to look around him
Or pays particular attention to
his surroundings. Rather, he
considers this time favorable for
reviewing. the notes taken in
class the day before and walks
slowly along the sidewalk, peering through his horn-rimmed
glasses at the tidy, Palmer Method writing in his note-book.

In class George always answers correctly and completely the
queslions addiessed to him, providing that the answer is somewhere in the text-book. When
asked to give his own opinion
on a subject he is frequenily at
a loss unless he remembers the
notes given on that subject.
His opinions on these occasions
bear a strange resemblance to
those of his professor.

His friends say that George is
usually good-natured and agreeable although, unfortunately,
somewhat given to punning,
that he is much sought after for
the long notes he takes in class,
and that he lends them with a
generous and somewhat?majestic
air noticeable on no other occeasions. His best and most intimate friend is like George in
everything but name. George
has no enemies:

At examinations he ‘never ap- The First Saecless Pen 7m for? :
pears until the last moment and . if ak Lowe Mk de 1 PE: Wy
at those times he looks exceed- without piston pump or Catves fine Sa

ingly woe-begone. His more er
 

 

Smith Shield
Chosen

The following four students
all of the
second year were selected by the
Moot Court committee to compete for the Smith Shield next

of the Law School,

term, Messrs. Howard Oxley,

J. Louis Dubinsky, Albert Pich| This
shield is awarded annually by

ette, and William Jost.
the present dean of the school,
Dean Sidney E. Smith, and the
competition takes place before a
bench consisting of Judges of
the Supreme Court of Nova
Scotia and a member of the Bar
of Nova Scotia.

The four students, all graduates in Arts are well known in
the University and are all recognized students in their class.
Mr. Oxley is next year’s Dalhousie Sodales president and represents Law in the Council.
Mr. Dubinsky is the winner of
the Carswell Essay Competition in first year Law and was
awarded Honourable Mention
for work in first year. Mr. Jost
is an outstanding ‘Honours Student in Arts and is representative of the National Federation
of Canadian University Students
at Dalhousie. Mr. Pichette is
a newcomer to Dalhousie and
has proved himself to be an excellent student.

Two of these four students
will win the shield. The case
will be an appeal trial and will
be heard sometime in March.
The winners this -year were
Robert Donald and John A. Y.
McDonald.

 

Good Memory—dAn elderly
woman was boasting of her retentive memory. ‘‘My memory
is excellent,’ she said. ‘‘There
are only three things I can’t

faces and—and I forget what the
third thing is.’"--Ouebec Chronicle-T elegraph.

A Scientist’s New Invention —
the Vacuum Filler .... brings forth

THIS MIRACLE PEN..

WITHOUT INCREASE IN SIZE r

 

 

 

— oo

ge a — ak SS

There are many strange chords
in the human heart, which will
lie dormant through years of depravity and wickedness, but
which will vibrate at last to some
slight circumstance apparently
trivial in itself, but connected
by some undefined and distinct
association with past days that
can never be recalled, and with
bitter recollections from which
the most degraded creature in
existence cannot escape.

Winter in all its dazzling,
shimmering, fragile loveliness is
the most fairy-like of spectacles.
It is Nature’s mighty pageant of
the snow. ‘The cold, bare, empty, brown earth is powdered into unbelievable radiance and
beauty. Gone is the stark, cruel
realism and in its place is a hazy
mist of sparkling star-dust. A
transient curtain of filmy white
veils all, while the heavenly
feathers softly flutter over old
mother earth.

  
  
  
  
 
    
 

The houses smuggle down into
their blankets of snow, gently
folded to and fro and reflect a
rosy glow from the firelight
flickering low. Each window
has become a giant spider web
of intricate design etched by the
artistic hand of Iceland’s painter
Jack Frost. The roofs are fringed with glassy, tapering icicles
and the snow literally steams off
the eaves in little puffs.

J-ESS TAX!

6-6328

25 CENT RATE
ALL TRAINS MET

The scene is hushed and still,
while aJl is lost in the bewildering masquerade of snow. Pearl
like pussy willows have formed
on the skeleton branches ,here
and there. Each little shrub
looks like flowering snowballs on
fluffed out cotton. Old stumps
and reeds are converted into
coral by the magic wand of the
great beyond. The very elms
resemble ornamental trees of |'
priceless worth, while the twigs
themselves have become spiked
cactus. The stately firs have
donned a fancy dress of fluted
ermine with beads of wavering
light which interlace on a trunk
studded with white. Great
boulders have clinging growths of
sparkling moss. The snow disguised as soap suds covers the
ground, and every telegraph pole
is sugar coated the wires themselves being encased in glass.

Youthful snowmen with serene, peacefu! awe, glide along}

 

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments,
Victor Records, Refrigerators

and Washing Machines.

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library
All the latest magazines.

2 cents per day

Specialists in Stamp

Assortments.

McDonald Music Co.

the yellow-faced sun maliciously beams, the magic disappears
and the heavenly vision is gone.

Haliax, - ~ Nova Scotia

 

PEN SAME

mos LESS THAN ACTUAL AMOUNT }

REVERSIBLE POINT
BO

-f,
pote LZ. £72 be

ey ula ER it

Parker commis
a.» - Goand see how it fills by vacuum. gold.
«++.» Why it holds 102% more ink.
« - » » Howit writes two ways with one point.

« «.. See the enthralling beauty of its laminated
barrel—patented—non-breakable,

sioned a gifted designer
tocreateit— thesmartest,
most distinguished pen
ever seen.

ratic friends, who sit waiting for
sudden inspirations, notice that
George plods through the paper
slowly and doggedly, gazing
neither to right nor left, although
sometimes viciously chewing the
end of his pen while he stares
at what he has written. But
he needn't have worried—he
always comes out with a fair
pass in everything. His marks
are never very high or very low,
but he gets through. His relief on hearing that he has passed is almost pathetic, but his
freedom from anxiety is shortlived for George starts in to
study again with renewed force,
spending his evenings in the
same monotonous grind of work.
He hates to pend

| WRITES TWO WAYS | TWO WAYS

‘Try writing two ways with this one point—a Reversible point of precious platinum and gold, Iridium tipped.
Test its graceful, balanced barre I—see how low and
unexposed it sets in the pocket. Visit the nearest pen
counter at once,

$400.00 IN CASH PRIZES . . . For
the best 15-Word Opinions of this Marvelous Pen

We offer prizes, totalling $400.00, for the best Opinions
of the Vacuum Filler Pen in not more than 15 words.

Geo. S. Parker’s announcement of this revolutionary
n has electrified the whole pen world. A self-filling
“pen with double ink capacity, yet no increase in size,

A pen without an ink sac—yet also without piston

ump or valves or anything to fail and render it useless
ter on—guaranteed mechanically perfect.

Such a pen existed ee 50 years in the brains of pen

oO but nowhere else. Each of thousands of

ttempts to produce it failed. Then a scientist invented

the vacuum filler. He selected Parker as the world’s pen

leader and brought his invention to us to develop and

perfect. To-day this pen is ready at all good pen count
ers for you to see and try.

See the velvet-like shimmer of
its laminated barrel, built up
stripe upon stripe of alternate
Jet and Silver Pearl, trimmed
with white gold; or Jet
and Burgundy Pearl

You can submit yours without any obligation. You do
pete. He will a the pen in detail, and give you the

with you, You can fillit in at leisure and
ee 88 University Avenue,

not have to buy; there is nothing to pay.
cial Entry Blank, with printed Contest
Pr ois r ‘ mail to us: The Parker
Toronto, Ontario,

Tell the nearest Parker dealer that you wish to comRules and full instructions to take away
Fountain Pen Co., Ltd.,

SSS,

 
   
 
 

    
 

      
  
  

   

     

pe ospoure queers May 4 0
itaett@er Gs Cape Breton The Health of the Student Body

 

 

(Continued trom page 3)

‘

\

Ngo) Se aM a
_ Cognac Connie and Whiskey

Jake. 
_ The graduates have their critiques in the Year Book, but there
are some in our midst who, while
they may never attain to this

honour, still deserve a_ place

Rickety, Rackety, Rick, Rack,
Ree,

Sydney, Glace Bay, Margaree,
New Waterford, Baddeck, Boulardaree,

J-U-D-I-Q-U-E !

so disappointing that the lectures were discontinued. This
matter was taken up by the
Senate and the whole question
of the Students’ Health Service
discussed. A committee was appointed consisting of Dean Smith,

   
 
 

“Judique’s on the floor, who'll

nevertheless in the Hall of Fame|put her off?’’ Imagine yourself

 

Professor Douglass, Professor

condition they suffer from, and
they will be checked at intervals
in the remainder of their stay.

Although there were 10 students who showed glycosuria
at different times, only 3 of these
were true cases of diabetes. All
of them have been advised re
SPORT

 

Maxwell, Dr. Bagnall, and Dean
Grant. They were requested
to look into the matter of the
Students’ Health Service, and
report back to the Senate. A
report was brought in,in which
the Service for the coming year
was outlined. Itwill consistina
continuance of the Service as it
now stands, together with pro
garding diet and treatment.
There were 25 students who
showed albuminuria. This
term, however, no frank cases
of nephritis developed.

at Dalhousie. We shal] do our|in a ‘‘square set’’ in some part
feeble best to make up to them|of Cape Breton and you'll apthe lack of publicity which they|preciate the preceding lines, and

_ have suffered. 2 _ |at the same time catch some of
Gladys Petunia Perkins is|the Cape Breton spirit. Howeur poetess. We have never |ever, for those who do not, there
been able to appreciate Gladys, |is a tendency to look upon Cape
so far above us is she, mentally|Bretoners as “hard-boiled,’’ a
and spiritually. She flowers a-|tendency which is misleading.
lone, a rose among cacti, her|The people, as a whole, compare

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SPORTSMANSHIP is one of

the greatest blessings that a man

ma actice.
Many other less important y pr

conditions were noted, skin disease, particularly of the milder

A true sportsman is the finest
type was quite common. Ab
by contact with the gross mater-| those in other parts of the prov
joy and an inspiration to all.|to the strong communal spirit

 gither, and speaks Hindustani.| which is not understood by the

_ one of the Bronx border Maclsa-| ties, namely, Inverness, Victoria,

- dulcet voice, his self-effacing | [sland.

hearted professors on the facul-|town’’ in the Dominion.

_but honestly we can’t blame)mining operations, on a com
Testament Greek at Vassar.|jargest French settlement east

 

delicate, spiritual nature bruised |at least on a par in respects to

ialism of her fellow students./ince. They are good citizens.
In class she is the only one who] So, if there is a misunderstandhas even the faintest conception |ing in certain places with reof what poetry is all about, and|pards to this insular part of
her intelligent questions are a} Nova Scotia, it is due probably

Gladys also is a painter of china}which seems to pervade the
of no mean artistry, plays the|people of the Island, a spirit

Gladys is one of those girls whO|superficial observer.
have had a blighted love affair.| As you know, Cape Breton
Hymie Irving Maclsaac is Island is made up of four coun
acs, and is one of the most|Cape Breton, and Richmond.
prominent attenders of the gym|The Strait of Canso separates
dances. One of our best actors;/the Island from the peninsula
the word ‘ham’ means nothing|of Nova Scotia. The last cento him. But “ersters” does.|sus gives Nova Scotia slightly
We are sorry to see Hymie go, | over five hundred thousand of a
for Dalhousie will miss his fresh-| population, of which over one
ness, his persistence, his sweet} quarter are found in Cape Breton

habits, his delicacy of nature,| The “‘sea-girt’’ isle has many
and his nasty, nasty profile. points of interest, from Louis
Cedric Donald Decays has|purg, “the Dunkirk of America”
been one of the most kind-|to Glace Bay, the ‘biggest

ere
ty. He is more interested in|in the old ‘‘Blockhouse’’ seam is
his students than in his work,|found the site of the first coal

him. A gentleman of the old} mercial scale, in America, dat‘school, he is a loyal member of ing back to 1720. Today, is
the Oxford Group, a staunch found in the Glace Bay area
Rotarian, and a leader in the|Dom. No. 1 B Colliery, one of
Conservative Party. He leaves} the most ‘‘up to date” coal mines
us to occupy the Chair of Old|jn the world. Cheticamp, the

We will miss him, but we know} of Quebec, is situated in Inver‘that our sorrow is as nothing|ness County. Baddeck, famous
Sere to his. : in the history of ‘the develop
illiam Fitzgerald Ricket-| pent of telephone and aeroplane,
son-Powell; Bill, ashe isknown|;, found in Victoria County.
to his many friends (including| And who does not know of the
the very, very many who merely | famed Margaree river and its
think they are), is the campus} .aimon pools, and of Wolfe's
big shot, our Honourable R. B. Cove, near Louisburg, or of St.
of Dalhousie. Willie hankers Anne’s, the home of the Cape
after collegiate honours; he wisb-|) Breton giant. These are just a
es to be known as a coming|few of the major points of in
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  

vision for a series of lectures on
personal hygiene and also suggests that the students be encouraged to take a greater interest in exercise. The only
other activity carried out this
year was the examination of the
staff at Shirreff Hall to determine whether or not any of them
were carriers of disease. All
were found in a healthy condition. Next year this examination will be carried out at King’s
University, and also at Pine
Hill.

In looking over the summary
of the history sheets there are
one or two things which are
worthy of note. In the whole
group there were 17, or slightly
over 1%, who had had tuberculosis before coming to college.
Over 8% had suffered from diphtheria, and roughly 17% from
scarlet fever. 9% gave a history of constipation. Almost
4 of the students were wearing
glasses, to be exact 44%. Fifty
percent had had their tonsils
removed, and 11% had been op
erated on for appendicitis.

The results of the physical examinations are very striking.
On the first day on which examinations were held one far
advanced case of tuberculosis
was discovered in a student who,
although he did not feel perfectly well, had no conception
that he was suffering from this
disease. He was advised to quit
his study and give himself proper treatment. This advice was
followed, and as a result this
man is now doing very well under proper treatment at the N. S.
Sanatorium. A second case of
moderately advanced pulmonary
tuberculosis was discovered during a check-up by the medical
director of the service. This

normal posture was recorded in
68 cases: diseased condition of
the nose was present in 182:
pathological conditions of the
tonsils were found in 172; the
teeth on the whole were in excellent condition, and only 54,
or slightly over 5%, were reported as needing dental treatment.
Ten cases of enlargement of the
thyroid were recorded; a few
hernias, or ruptures, and quite a
number of cases of varicose veins.
Fallen arches or flat feet were
reported in 119 out of the 929
students. There were 48 of the
students who had blood pressures higher or lower than the
normal.

In comparing in a rough way
the general health of the men
and women it is immediately
noted that the women are in
much better shape than the men.
Only 5% of the women have
been classified as pooriy developed, whereas 18% of the men
come in that category. Where
the state of nutrition has been
checked 4% of the women have
been called fair, whereas 9% of
the men. The vision of the
women on the whole is worse
than that of the men. Five percent of the women are reported
as having nasal obstruction,
whereas 17% of the men; 18%
of the women had infected or
pathological tonsils, and 20%
of the men. In fact, with the
exception of one or two items,
the women show up as a much
healthier group than the men.

In conclusion we would like
to state that the students as a
whole showed great interest in
the examinations. A few of
them, as is natural, complained
that they could not see any

Today we have a pitiful idea of

type of citizen.

Play the game and play it
straight! If you Jose, don’t hold
any grudge!---Put it away. Bring
out that smile and be the first to
congratulate the winner and --- 
MEAN It!
Sport. “Win at all cost!” “Get

your man and get him good!”

These are the modern phrases.

Bring back the SPORTSMAN

PUBLISHED BY A MARITIME PUBLIC
SPIRITED CITIZEN

 

The Valedictory

(Continued from page 3)

times scorns the college man as one Who has spent several precious
years of youth in_the pursuit of useless knowledge, hair-brained ideas
and impracticable theories, instead of studying the practical problems

: thing, and is ready to accept Or! j.+est which will appeal to you.|student also had nb idea that he|sense in the work and that they of the workaday world in the hard school of experience. Thas is not a
| lobby for any position ranging|},. Cabot Trail, the new motor|was suffering from tuberculosis, | felt it was a waste of time. Gen-|27oper occasion for unbounded optimism. We face a troubled world—
' @ from S. C. M. treasurer to} .\ te traversing Northern Cape}but felt that perhaps he was ajerally speaking, however, the @ world whose economy has broken down, and whose morale is shaken.
| President of the Poodle Protec-| p cton Island, will open to those| little slow in recovering fully|impression we gained was that | Statesmen seem incapable of taking strong measures to lay the founda| tion Club. He has always taken interested, an unspoiled land of|from an attack of influenza./the students appreciated the tions of a new order, and resort to expedients which serve in the long run
| a most prominent part in campus |) 4.4 uty. He also was advised to leave col-| value to themselves and to the|erely to make matters worse. Hampered by the forces of nationalism,
| affairs, and has from his first)” phe chief industries of Cape|lege and put himself under prop-| University as a whole of the distrust, selfishness and greed, the leaders of the nations cannot coopli year been its leading member. Breton are farming, fishing, and|er treatment. A third student, | Students’ Health Service. erate effectively to remedy the ills that beset us. War threatens, and
F William leaves us to be delivery mining. The largest single one who has been under observation disarmament conferences fail. The outlook is dark. We can hope

ly

or less,

boy at T. Eaton’s.

Alice Tremeine : Alice comes
from the good old homestead of
Mouthwash. Mouthwash is the

place boasting of ten male, more
inhabitants, and the
campus sweetheart has been out
with them all, including Hermann, who isn’t quite right in
his mind but perfectly safe, you] j-nows all the answers, like ‘“‘ihat
know. She has followed the|\ a, my wife’, and his puns are

is coal mining, which together
with the steel industry employs
a great number. The year 1932
shows only an output of two and
one half million tons of coal, the
lowest output in years. Now,

(Continued on page 11)

 

 

for the past two years, was discovered to have definite active
tuberculosis about a month ago,
and as a result of the use of the
fluoroscope a fourth case of active tuberculosis was diagnosed.
Thus, during a term, there have
been four active cases of tuberculosis brought to light, and also
two cases in which the disease is
suspected. These suspected

Hubbards Trip

They’re off. A hundred scavengers left Shirreff Hall. Dashed through the Dal buildings

only that the darkness is that blackest darkness that precedes the dawn.

The situation ts grave. But what can we do about it? We feel
so helpless, so unimportant, so lacking in influence on world affairs.
Mr. Elihu Root said some years ago that, ‘‘When foreign affairs were
ruled by autocracies or oligarchies the danger of war Was in sinister
purpose. When foreign affairs are ruled by democracies the danger
of war will be in mistaken beliefs.’’ Our task is to help to dispel those
‘mistaken beliefs’ that lead to so much misunderstanding among the
peoples of the world. More than optimism, we need persiste
We must face the future with courage and a strong heart.

Besides helping to put a new spirit into international relations,

ee same idea at college, and knows simpully terrific. He is really|cases are being kept under ob- grabbing _ examination time|we should help to rebuild society on a firm foundation of right and
| every fraternity house from top frightfully clever but of course|servation for some time. Be- tables off the notice boards.|justice. The present social and economic order has demonstrated its

 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
    
 
  
   
   
 
  
      

aes “ae

an account with every bootnot yusy at his studies he may
be found playing around the
___ waterfront. Capone's next body
oe] cE ot
ig :

S 7
ne 
a 
to bottom—especially the top-|he had to spend so much time
All in all, Alice has been rather reading “Ballyhoo” and “College
a success socially, and the way|] jife’ that he just hasn’t been
she can lord it over her girl) able to keep up with his work,
friends back home is a sin. We|put after all there’s nothing

tilier's Ferry, and theroomclerk|;ay of sunshine, and we wish
at the Nelson. him gollops of success in his

campus. Percy is well known
for his ability to hold his liquor
without making an ass of himself (that is in his own opinion),
he never draws attention to
himself with his childish antics

legger in Halifax. When he is

 

" Oscar Goldsmith. Oscar is

  

sides the active and suspected
cases of tuberculosis there were
revealed by means of physical
examination, supplemented by
the use of. the fluoroscope, 76

in to the Health Centre for a
check-up; have been advised of

ic disease of the heart were
found. Here, as it was with the
tubercular cases, most of the
students did not. know they had
heart trouble until they were
informed of it following the ex
 

Raided the printers for Oct. 27th
Gazettes. .got all kinds of things
for ‘‘a specimen of Rhodymia
Palmota’’. .ripped out sweaters
to have them half-knit. . bought

“Polar Pie’? Atwood for Delta
Gamma twins. .and did all kinds

supper, and played for the dancing—and dancing includes most
everything from a Paul Jones to
square dances ala Doug Murray.

- ——_— »+4-o_—___—_

   

   

injustice and its inefficiency. The influence of youth may not be great;
but surely a genuine effort to assist in giving to all men fair play and
equal opportunities 1s worth a try.

Our path will not be strewn with roses; rather, it will be steep and
rocky. The difficulties in our way will be great. But through our

? sh shall be sorry to see her -. ae like good clean fun, is there?|cases of healed tuberculosis. All all the flannel nightgowns that|veins courses the blood of pioneers—men and women who triumphed
Be oy will also most of the ma B at)That’s what we always say|of these healed or latent tuber- Eaton's had, or else borrowed] over tremendous obstacles, people of indomitable will, people typified
ben Dalhousie, the cab drivers, Bou- Anyway, Oscar has beena little|}cular cases have been brought their grandmothers, deluged|by Dalhousie’s first president, Thomas McCulloch. Today we go

out to face a weary, troubled, discouraged world. Let us bring to the

solution of tls problems the spirit of moderation and toleration with

ees Algernon “Slugger” Clan=-|¢a:eer as a mortician. their condition, and will be kept }0!, chemistry on perfectly good|which the university has imbued us, the courage and the determination
eit A ey ¢ Just a man about town.| Ppercjval Francis McCosky.| under supervision of the Health | ™Ik to make it sour. Then the|which our forefathers met their problems, ‘and the enthusiasm of
: eS - Doesn’t know the Hall from toP|Percy as he is known to his|Service during their stay at Dal-|"@¢¢ to Hubbards began. Evatt! youth. The greater the difficulties, the greater the challenve to us.
ee ae bottom, but says it isnt/ friends, especially to his femin-|housie. In addition to the cases Bishop’s car was the first to] Perhaps the struggle in which we are to take part will be good for us
ee necessary. Has always claimed ine friends, is our idea of the}of tuberculosis there were 43 reach Hubbards, and had all the]and for civilization; something finer than we now know may emerge
Coe ae _ that song about the million- ideal college hero. Prominent}cases of healed pleurisy diagnos- articles, so won the prize (broth-|fromit. It is possible that in after years We may speak of these days of
- __ dollar baby at Woolworth’s was}j, wrestling and every ready to}ed, and 16 non-tubercular con-|er, can't you spare a dime?) Jour youth as did Wordsworth of his: pera
erie ok the musical event of the century.| Voice his opinions on politics|ditions of the lung, many of| A delicious picnic supper was “Buss was ut in that dawn to be alive
os ets _Algy works hard, copying his|,, other matters of the day,/his|which were bronchitis and as-|served, with Lou Christie and But to be young was very Heaven.”
__ friends’ notes, and keeping on the |inane vapourings have marked |thma. Chuck Lorway as head waiters.|But, in ihe meanwhile, Ora et Labora! We might each of us take as
ne i good side of the faculty. Has|him as the beau ideal of the| Twenty-seven cases of organ-| Jerry Naugler arrived after |our own the motto of our coat of arms. Never before has it seemed so

stgenificant.

And now we must say farewell to the life that we have lived at Dalhousie. Here we have grown to manhood and womanhood: here we
have learned to seek truth. We render thanks to this old College by the
Sea for her guidance along the road of life. Now we have come to a
turn in the road, and each must go on alone. But before setting forth

Pe Sie e oe Reese on the dance floor except when|amination. All of these stu- we say farewell to Dalhousie and to friends whom we have found
ey aaa eee gee ae eat noe he attends one. All. in all our dents now know of their condi-| Seek rather a man without |the professors and the members of other classes. And isi Chena
a We. Meth Se kk _ Ot ees champion wrestler is quite a]tion, they have been advised|money, than money without a] Farewell! :
pe Se oe MO nr lad. AND HOW! how to adapt their lives to the| man. E. BENJAMIN ROGERS
; ial a ae “hea fm = T a ; 1a i ' ) ae Z
 

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

rr, seem to arouse con
<P pied an important place early
in the autumn and towards the
end of the Spring term.

abolition of it is the question
Tov y interesting the various classes, but even if nothing is done,
~ haz ing will die of its own accord.
- This is shown by the diminishing
jndignities that freshmen are
being subjected to each year
and also by the fact that hazing
_ is a dead letter in many Cana_ dian Universities. ¥

4
L

e - The question of fraternities at
Dal is rather an important one
as. so many of them in
proportion to the number of
students! The principle argu- ment against them here seems to
o be that they tend to break the}
students up into groups, taking
P| away from the much desired
is

Bact
a

Ae - , re
as there are

| ae ity of the college. However,
in the absence of a student
_ dormitory or any common*place
for the students to meet, they

are very useful for that purpose.

— One thing that made me feel
quite at home was the universal
complaint of student apathy.

Here it seems to be shown in

_
—

Bo
f ae

a
[45

Jack ot support of the various
Pi oe ee ae and lack. of
interest in student government.
Be In the latter case interest seems
-_ ¢o have increased this year due
a part to the activities of the

ef wee as ! te”’ and the introduction

Pak ‘the platform system into

ee ea
. oe tt
ae" a ae

io «
‘

e

ee
ey
—

One thing that disappointed
_ me in this connection was the
lack of interest shown 1n the
- French courses and the Cercle
Francais. Even though French
spoken to any extent

~

official languages of Canada and
as such should be given more
consideration. The usual idea
-_- here seems to be to scrape
through the compulsory courses
- in French with the minimum of
_ work and then forget all about
ae it. Asa consequence the Cercle
Francais, formed to aid students
-_ in French conversation, has been
i=. almost completely ignored.

In conclusion I should like to
“s iF ‘say a few words about the exchange of undergraduates plan.
-_ Tn my opinion it is the best way
+ eS at present offered to a student
to see other parts of Canada and
of appreciating other points of
view. There is great need at
a the present moment for a Cana_ dian rather than a provincial
consciousness. The N.F eu.
is doing very notable work to
further this aim by the exchange
3 bE of undergraduates and by intercollegiate debating. What has
-_ $urprised me is that more advantage has not been taken of
Res npctvusity.- The chief reasons I think are laziness and lack
of ambition and against these
_ very slow headway 1s being

In spite of any remarks that
I have made I have thoroughly

: enjoyed my session at Dalhousie
and have become a warm cham
 pionofit. Lamsure that Ihave
profited by my stay here through
the opportunities I have been
given to see various sides of

by RS _ iy 7.
tudent activity.
| ED. NOTE—Mr. Weldon is the

N. F. C. U. S. Representative from
McGill Univeriity.

ns

‘3
ia

ps 4
ont
o* 
i

he

ae

—s

esident and Mrs. Carleton
Stanley entertained the prostive graduates and_ their
nds at a very pleasant tea
ce Jast Wednesday after. Mr. George Thompson
Miss Laura Marshall, life
cers of the graduating class,
ved with the President and
Stanley. Mrs. Bell, Mrs.

—
al Aa a
en
ONY» |

1
SSIS

ted in serving tea.

es and freshman initiation,| —
he question of hazing oc-|—

The}

ound Halifax it is one of the}

Mrs. Grant and Mrs.|

en aoaee
i 7 an

ff Sra Shs

7 Wa SI i TA?

Lt Pee rn Fi, , a
et eee ip ae oe See
~~ - : + E a : 3 c. i. ‘
SN eae oP eee ce
Pail < ie = | ~
be. rot rs pe

at . Ne ;

Great

“This Clinic, besides providing services for children of preschool age, is utilized for teaching combined groups of medical
and dental students, the importance of prenatal advice to mothers and early preventive dental
service for children. The students are also impressed with the
value of co-operation among
members of the medical, denta!
and nursing professions so that
toothache, unnecessary extraction and a very large percentage
of systematic diseases due to
focal infection from the teeth
may be avoided.”

—_

 

= Cape Breton

(Continued trom page 10)

as a consequence of the unemployment and the overcrowding
an the coal mines, a back to the
land movement is in progress,
and promises to relieve the situation somewhat. |

Since 1925 there has been no
serious trouble im the coal mines
of Cape Breton despite the fact
that the depression was and is
felt there very keenly. The
miners, on the whole, by their
conduct under trying circumstances have again demonstrated their sterling qualities, thereby dispelling any contrary impressions. which might have been
held. ‘Lhe problem with regards to coal was and is to secure by means of protection or
quotas a market for their coal,
in the Dominion. And as long
as protection remains a policy,
the miners will be justihed in
asking for it. ‘Lhe people of
Cape Breton, despite various
opinions to the contrary, are
civilized. By far, the largest
single group are of Scottish extraction. “Lhe country districts
are peopled to a great extent by
a sturdy Highland folk, a hardy
folk, quite in keeping with the
rugged surroundings. In the industrial districts even, the Scotch
are the largest group. hey are
as a rule very intelligent and
well read and retain a certain
touch of reserve and canniness
suggestive of the Scot. ‘Lhe
Gaelicis still used to a great extent, especially among the older
people, and no county picnic is
is complete without the Gaelic
and the bagpipes. The spirit
of the Highlander is very strong
throughout all the country,
whethe: it be in Loch Lomond,
Judique, Catalone, or Dingwall.
Gaelic songs are still sung and
handed down from generation
to generation. The following

translated verse is a fine type,

and may well be applicable to

Cape Breton, the ‘‘ Highlands’’

of Nova Scotia.

“From the lone shilling of the
misty island,

Mountains may divide us, and
the waste of seas—

Yet still the blood is strong, the

heart is Highland,—

And we in dreams behold the

a om aes ee eT, See a End
Me ae ee eS ee nei?
ree ier DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

EE

On December 6, 1917, one of
the greatest catastrophes. of
modern times and the War
known as the Halifax explosion,
occurred—the result of a collision in the harbor of two steamships, one a supply ship just
leaving Bedford Basin and an
Ammunition ship about to enter
the Basin.

The State of Massachusetts
very promptly despatched a
relief train with Doctors, Nurses
and Hospital Supplies directly
to Halifax and later provided a
large sum of money for relief.

In 1919 when sufficient for
relief purposes had been received from-other sources the unexpended balance of that received from Massachusetts was presented to the city for public
health purposes to be administered by the Massachusetts-Halifax Commission of which Mr.
G. Fred Pearson was Chairman.

Among the many improvements inaugurated by the Commission was the purchase of
equipment and the establishment of a Pre-School Age Dental
Clinic, the first of its kind in the
world.

This Clinic was established in
1919 at the Admiralty Health
Centre with Dr. Arrabelle MacKenzie the first lady graduate
of the Faculty of Dentistry as
Director.

Later, on the completion of
the Health Centre on Morris St.,
this equipment was presented to
Dalhousie University.

While every branch ot the
modern practice of Dentistry is
taught by the Faculty of Dentistry, the student is particularly impressed with the value of
the cooperation of the Medical
practitioner and Nurse in educating the public with regard
to prevention at an early age—
and an endeavor is made to teach
Prevention to combined classes
of medical and dental students
so that they will realize the value
of cooperation in their undergraduate days and thus practise
it after graduation.

For some years before 1908
suggestions for the establishment of a dental school were
favorably discussed at meetings
of the Nova Scotia Dental Association and Board, resulting
in the appointment of a Committee to obtain the cooperation of
Dalhousie University and the
Halifax Medical College, with
the object of obviating the necessity of our young men and women of the Maritime Provinces
and Newfoundland going abroad
for their professional education. —

From the very first the school
was a success, largely due to the
enthusiasm and self-sacrifice of
members of the original faculty
of which Dr. Frank Woodbury
was the Dean, and the cooperation of Dalhousie University
and the Halifax Medical College.

The standards adopted by the
School were equivalent to the
highest then existing in Dental
Education, the four year course
being immediately required.
At the present time the preliminary course of two pre-dental

r and his orchestra Hebrides.” _ years exactly the same as that

sic for dancing. | of the Faculty of Medicine is reee eer hes Ba PRaak ma asthe 4 - :

ee comet e r * ag Te a one ax Wie Leet *

eiare anata i Mere ye Seep ert eaten or Seta go eM a, a

i a eee pean ie Seams Sore Sine Se: eS

 

 

Work Done by Dalhousie Dental Clinic

quired thus making the so called
2-4 course.

In 1912 the Maritime Dental College became a Faculty of
the University, its first class obtaining the degree of D. D. C.,
at the regular convocation of
that institution.

The Faculty is a member of
the Canadian Dental Faculties
Association as well as the American Association of Dental
Schools, its curriculum meets the
requirements of Newfoundland
and all the Provinces of Canada,
as well as, a member of United
States including Massachusetts
and New York. The Dominion
Dental Council recognizes the
school, and students may pass
progressive examinations during their course. This qualifies
them for registration without
further examination in all the
provinces of Canada except Quebee and British Columbia.

DR. G. K. THOMSON,

Hockey

Many, years ago the Tiger
Hockey teams were as famous as
the College itself. As the years
went on Hockey seemed to wane
and the Tigers were second to
the other colleges in Canada’s
national game. Finally, after
watching teams composed of
graduates of other colleges perform the cry arose to eliminate
hockey; this seemed too drastic,
and anyway we had the gear, so
it was decided to have a team
composed of Undergraduates to
represent Dal. The croakers in
college, and they were plenty,
said the team would do nothing,
but the team and those connected with it were willing to
take the risk, so Dal had a hockey
team in the league.

As the season went on and the
team began to shape up, the
result was surprising, soon the
College was talking of the Hockey team and while support was
terrible, the team gave their
best and what a ‘best.’ During
the season the Tigers won 2
and lost 1 to give them second
place in the league. In the playoffs that followed the Tigers lost
to St. Mary’s 3-1. The team
more than justified its existence
and the home brew hockey team
is a permanent fixture at Dal
for as long as Dal plays hockey.
The thanks of the college, the
players, etc, are due to Laurie
Teasdale, manager, and Potter
Oyler, coach, for their untiring
efforts to make the Tigers a first
class team. The results of the
season speak for themselves and
the results satisfy everyone.

While the team will lose only
one member by graduation the
place on the team will be filled
by players, as eager, if not, as
experienced, as those they are
attempting to replace. The
man being lost is Ken Purtill,
one of the finest net minders to
ever stop rubber in an Intercolregiate hockey league.

The Value o

Commerce

(Continued from page 3)

himself.
which may be conferred by a
university course is to be found
in. the mental training that it
provides. A course which provides any one of these has value,
and, if it can boast of conferring
more than one of these benefits
on the student, its value is
greatly enhanced.

In our modern world, business |

is becoming .ncreasingly important. The problem of investment, for example, concerns
people in all walks of life; from
the investment banker to the
jaboring man with his meagre

savings, the doctor and _ the
minister, the lawyer and the
university president must all

face this problem.
because of ignorance, they have
been unable to cope with it
except on rare occasions. ‘hey
have been ruthlessly exploited
by the unscrupulous, and will
continue to be so exploited until
a wider dissemination of business
principles takes place among
them. Other business problems,
with which the ignorant are not
troubled, are continually pressing themselves on the more
educated. ‘The lawyer may become a bank director; the professor may be called upon, to
manage a great university; the
successful doctor may take
charge of a hospital. In such
positions, an understanding of
the fundamental principles of
business may lead to success, and |
the lack of such understanding
may be the cause of failure.

]
|

The third benefit

In the past, |

‘Page Eleven

 

 

 

ATHLETES - - 
Baseball,
Football,

Tennis,

Golf---
If you play the game
 

any game-you’ll play
it better with our

| equipment.

 

| WORLD’S BEST MAKES

|CRAGG BROS.

COMPANY LIMITED
BARRINGTON ST.
AT GEORGE

 

Informal Dance at

Ashburn

 

[t cannot be denied, then, that
the knowledge to be obtained
in a Commerce course is valuable
in itself. Later lite will require
a constant review ot this subject and further research into
it, providing the student with
a live, interesting study, to his
great benefit throughout the
whole ot his life.

The next point to be noticed
in an investigation of Commerce
is its value for purposes of
training. Does it force the student to think, or is it possible
for him to get by on memorized
knowledge of which he has no
understanding? The ‘‘case’”’

system of study, which is pri- |

marily a child otf Commerce, is
a system by which the student
is continually being presented
with new problems, each with
its individual peculiarities, and
each of which requires a clear
understanding of the problem,
and precise thinking for its
solution. ‘his is one way in
which Commerce affords mental
training of the highest order.
Another way is to be found in
such courses as Accounting and
Statistics. Each problem, here,
presents its own difficulties, and,
in. addition, these courses teach
the student habits of precision
and neatness as do no other
courses. Such habits are of inestimable value in later life
regardless of occupation.

This, then, is the answer given
by those who feel that Commerce is truly deserving of a
place on the curriculum of the
university to those who would
bar it as being unworthy of such
a position.

Even its strongest advocates,
however, would aot recommend
that Commerce, and nothing
else but Commerce, should make
up a university education. Such
a view would be no less extreme
than advocating the restriction
of such an education to Latin
and nothing else but Latin, or to
Mathematics and Mathematics
only. The advocates of Commerce hold no such extreme
views. They are firm believers
in the new interests and mental
training offered by an Arts
course, and feel that, because
of its particular efficiency in
attaining these ends, Commerce
rightly deserves a prominent
place in education.

Universities, as a class, are
notoriously slow in discarding
old ideas and embracing new
ones, however meritorious. For
this reason, Commerce is facing
great opposition in many cases,
especially from those educalion
One of the most enjoyable
\features of the Convocation
Week activities during past years
has been the dance held at
Ashburn Golf and Country Club
—the party held there during
this year’s celebrations in honor
of the graduates was no exception, and everybody present voted it a most jolly affair.

Over sixty couples danced
away the hours from 8.380 p, m.
to 1 a. m., to the very excellent
music supplied by Charlie Lovett’s orchestra. “The dance floor
was amply large, the luxurious
furnishings of the Club, the full
moon, the refreshments, and the
genera] atmosphere of sociability
combined to make this informal
dance a very decided success.

Much of the evening’s success was. due to the untiring
efforts of the energetic committee in charge of the convocation ‘activities—Laura Marshall,
Marion Morton, Betty March,
Elizabeth Saunderson, George
Thompson, “Lou” Christie and
Turner O’Brien.

The chaperones for the evening were Mrs. A. O. Saunderson
and Dr. Bell, who is Honorary
President of the Class of ’33.

‘

alists of the ‘‘old school’ who
firmly believe in the value of
Classics and Mathematics, to
the exclusion of all else. Such
a policy of opposition can lead
to nothing but disaster. Youth
of to-day is rebelling more and
more against the Classics especially, and is demanding mental
training along more useful lines.
To the student with no particular
interest in languages, the ability
to translate Latin and Greek is
useless, while the knowledge
gained from a study of Commerce may be of inestimable
value in later life.

Thus universities who can
see this trend and adapt themselves to it are in the vanguard
of progress, and are making the
most of their opportunities to
serve humanity. Dalhousie is
to be sincerely congratulated on
belonging to this class, and in
providing for her students a
course which provides all the
benefits of the liberal arts, with
the modern study of Commerce
taking the place of many antiquated subjects of study.

 

 
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

May 16th, 1988

 

Ping Pong, Tennis,

evermore. She does the work

rights of Dalhousie University
and the Student’s Council are

always the case, e. g. the Faculty

 

let me know as soon as possible?)
If any of them think the idea

Sat Feet 2 Pe ee - Badminton identical, each being entitled|°! 2, petmanent home for Dal- JOHN TOBIN & Co
Cc Pe te yo ae ,? ‘ait ' ‘5 to the other's privileges—al- housie oe 2 a Were one, | 1
LOTT rr at ra t | i ena = ontinued from page I es i. e. some kind of a Carleton- L
: on a a u a tons Se ce though I know that this is not Dalhonsies oaibined | ofsdnize- IMITED

s

.
ee 
professions we offer a complete range of beauti
and he gets the credit, or as

resiliency and powers of physical

do not get free admission to the

student football matches. The

a step further and organise an

tion, each with certain stipulated |
rights to the courts all through

 

Limited

ee they say inthe text-books, the summer, will they let me
ig We extend our sincere Congratulations to the “Woman's place is at home.” uepeaa Ae on ae = hi “| know at once? ; ,
i " es . These qualities of mutual Seay Hectiner kag Pa ousle Wholesale Grocers
‘ae graduating classes. We hope that the coming social adaptability are as yet representative) and has asked eo: ee eas
2 i years will be as happy and successful as those imperfectly developed in our this ie ue S Beirne oo .
‘ — SE Lae . student players, who like to|'™S year with the lalhousie
rat spent by you at Dalhousie. think of Betis ao ‘Gees students and staff wishing to Tea Merchants
hai Pe ia: : i 4 ' 1 duals, and take rather unwilling- eae eon courts. ; lhe
| : 0 t ose 0 [OU W 0 WI actise OUr C osen ] to the ‘ame of doubles. Dal- att may, / e sure, re y on
‘ < f Y pr Y ee meitly scored on its|0Ur cooperation, but why not go MacLeod, Balcom,
a

 

ful Office Furmiture and Furnishings, and the
_ free use of our service department which will
— advise you on your needs,

To those who will celebrate their Graduation by Cup matches. We should like If anything. happened to" the
adopting “Double Harness’ we offer the ser to take this opportunity of) Pree on at D treater
| meee ee thanking the Hon. F. B. Me-|PY feason of WValhousie’s or
vices of the largest Home Furnishing establish- Curdy for presenting this hand- Carleton S~actop, the fact that spe i chladaciel ale 0h? os ele
ment in the Maritimes. This, coupled with our some trophy, which made the| Dalhousie University owns the mM . ’ Pp four games against the Militia soil on which the courts were
Deferr ed Payment Plan, should prove highly Officers and Halifax badminton] °iginally constructed would be
; : ‘en lo 9? clubs possible. If I were not a|2"_ interesting observation to
unteresting to “‘ Newlyweds. ee en eadke ‘bie otherwices of little .
Faculty member myself, I shou Special
: icon) Hike to cOnoratulate sav|Practical value to those who
- And to those who are interested in seeing beaut A keds Ga Ceara {wanted to play tennis whe
0 tose Who are wnierested in seevng Deauti- colleagues on the assistance they; W@Mted to play tennis when STUDENT SERVICE

ful things for the home displayed in the proper
settings, we extend a cordial invitation to msit

endurance; it was amusing to
notice how vigorously one of
the other teams protested against
an equal number of both singles
and doubles in the McCurdy

have rendered to the game by
forming a Faculty Badminton

all-summer club, with a regular
team, playing June, July, August, as well as September and
October matches with the-other
clubs in the city and province?

college opened in September.
My last word, which is really

HALIFAX, CANADA

DRUGGIST

 

 

 

 

 

 

DRY CLEANING

 

CHOCOLATES

ire, Aes ; Club, playing side-by-side with the reason for writing, is this: PRESSING |
us and roam through our building with its six the students and showing that - ee are ane ea REPAIRING [| The Seal of Quality
large floors that is devoted entirely to the display ae is very interested in sede oe an So tee ee —We call for and deliver.— :
; ; ‘ student activities. “eo * pero y ) s ea
of things needed in the home and office. The Dalhousie Badminton} __ Raat tae ae Cousins’ | imited HALIFAX, N.S.
Championship cup, given for

 

 

  
 

a“ * i i
annual competition by Dr. W.
Alan Curry, was won by W.
who

  
 
  
  

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
STORE BALANCE SHEET

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 RobieSt. 381 Barrington St
Telephone Lorne 2323

 

 

 

 

|Hart, a King’s student, AS OF DATE May 5th, 1933.
defeated V. Oland in three sets
in order to avenge a _ two-set ASSETS. (meee
defeat from Oland a few days (erect nent era nr ees 9 eS
previously in the Halifax County|Cash....... -¢ 630.96
‘badminton championships. Miss| Inventory... . 819 79 A R R 1 C é ASINO
eH ; ” Lillian Fraser won the cup dona-} Equipme 91 9
urnishers of Ha Homes. Fraser | p {quipment........ 21.20 K
y PPY ‘i ted by Col. Sidney Oland for the eee Pcie eee
~ * ‘ Tee cx “ee -lac ra 4 j tam Ni 78 He = ~ : u
450 Barrington St. Halifax, N. S. pes = Snes me Nn, Ris $1,471 . 9 RUTH C HATTERTON nico Te.4d.on
cas as runner-up. Dalho .
defeated Mount Allison twice, BUSTER KEATON
losing 4 events out of a total of LIABILITIES. IN JIMMY DURANTE
- 40. Next year we hope to have 66 . 9 ere
roe a regular inter-university series,| Accounts payable— Frisco Jenny Wh ! N B 9
iP ae <s . fic cases. There will always be,/ With Acadia and possibly U. N.|_ Second Hand Books.$ 36.61 Se at! Oo eer:
re Committee of Nine however, from time to time, situ- | B. as further competitors. Loan Students Council 200 .00 FRI. SAT. Nidtidan’ ka \Wadnewday
Meee hg ations which will require its at-| Coming finally to the last of| Reserve for Deprecia- _ ZANE GREY’S May 22-23-24
an yas - (Continued from page 1) tention. _ Meanwhile, the mere|the racket trio, Dalhousie ro ORNS eas * ... > 173.20 A L d ?
Okie i fact of its existence affords a} the intercollegiate tennis cham- Surplus, . . . - 1,062.14 “Mi t ; Rid 79 a ys
: a: that body or, more usually for] feeling of stability and the as- pionship for the second time ora ysterious nidaer P f “
. a comparatively trivial matter,| surance that, if and when such a against Acadia’ and. Mount Alli-| $1,471.95 le roression
a delay of several weeks pending situation does arise, it will be son. Our own tennis champion- sue —with—

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
 

c% a regular meeting. Then acom3 mittee of students met the Sen= ate or a committee of that body
to present its case. Conflicts
of opinion occasionally resulted
and gave rise to misunderstanding between the students and
the Senate—a situation which
so often results from the power

dealt with fairly and impartially
by the Committee of Nine.

 

Baccalaureate Service— Rey.
Canon Cumming, Rector of
Christ Church, Dartmouth,
preached the Baccaulaureate ser
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

ships were unfinished, also for|
the second time; the Ernest
Munro trophy for men and the
G. Fred Pearson trophy for|
women still await somebody to|

|

 

holdthem. It is, | think, known
to everybody that tennis is now

a major sport at Dalhousie:

   
 

Halifax, N. S.
May 5th, 1933.

KENT TAYLOR
IRVING PICHELL

ALISON SKIPWORTH
ROLAND YOUNG

 

 

 

 

Well Dressed Men Who Prefer To Pay a Moderate
Price Choose

1 : mon to the Graduating Class at | Milton Musgrave, James Vooght
be ie se ac to veto the pro- All Saints’ Cathedral on Sunday. | Donald Saunderson, Robert Hat- 44 a9 §
| sal of another. tor enzg| Canon Cumming declared that|field received their 1933 “D's Glendale’”’ Two Trouser Suits
eam s he logical solution for this probably the most remarkable|from the D. A. A. C., and the
, state of affairs was a committee] feature of the educational history |!adies hope to receive theirs: ahi
1 in which every group concerned] of our country during the last|Some day, when and if they are) Priced at .0O0 »
should have equal voice. On| ffx vedrs : awarded by the D. G. A. C. |
! the assumption that the Alumni]... “4 pee fhe way we
| SE Ge Vatversity aba hau tie: have come to see that mind and This article, consisting mainly |
2 gig er ealiaca the Alun: love of God, brains and charac-| of semi-humorous, semi-philoso- | Introduced only last year, in a remarkably short time Glendale
a ee gc acked Beak. ter are inseparable, phical persiflage, is not going to has arrived at an enviable position in the world of men’s clothes.
Gee wicredenitatived. ta: this end without asking one very| Several facts account for this. In the first place Glendale
eee: Phe deatiGe ot mr serious question and demanding | suits are undeniably smart in appearance; they are well tailored
a ee fete: seildents, “whloss FOOTBALL. an equally serious answer. Is. and sell at really moderate price.| In addition the range is so
¢ personal appreciation of student it worth our while to have a varied that every type of man can find a style, color and
| problems is tempered with a ma-} Put the control of football Dalhousie aennis Chib, Ome Bat Be ne nen es
functions all summer as well as

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 

under a Professor as was done
with basketball. Get the Smith
brothers as coaches (or a FULL
TIME PROFESSIONAL) give
them the authority and council
backing to start football as soon

ture judgment, has been an important factor in the success
achieved by the Committee of
Nine. The faculty with which
the Community may be called
_ together and the power of its

 
  
  
   
   
  
    
    
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
    
   
   
 
   

and efficiency with which exceptional situations are dealt.

Perhaps the very fact that it
is not generally known today
is one of the surest indications
|  __ of the efficiency with which the
_ Committee of Nine has operated.

It may be assumed that it has
created, in its various capaci
, ties, a body of regulations which
| «cover almost every situation
with which it might be expected
to deal, thus obviating the necessity for frequent action on speci
*

and convenient practice hours,
and for some member of the
Varsity or alumni to coach and
assist the Interclass league. Try
to find a sane and economical
way to 1un an Intercollegiate
Team

 

pn ae Alumni Banquet At six
o'clock last evening the Alumni
entertained the men graduates
at the Lord Nelson Hotel. After
the banquet the annual meeting

of the Alumni was held.

7 °
ia

   
 
 
 
    
   
    

 

during the months of October
and November? The overture
has been made time and time |
again by the Executive of the

the second week in September,
The students claim this as Dalhousie’s right, because the
ground on which the Carleton
courts rest belongs to Dalhousie
University. I am not so sure |
myself that the Dalhousie authorities intended this, my impression being that in the original |
agreement between Dalhousie
and Carleton, the former wished
the courts to be utilised by
Dalhousie staff in return for free
rent. But let that pass. Let
us assume that the interests and |

 

  
   

Carleton Club, which places its! 9

Smart

. , 3S : a11
3 members to speak for their}as possible after Sept. 1st,| CUtS freely at the disposal
| —s respective = constituent bodies| Make airangements for the In of ae ngewe for the two é’ Each 4.50
have added greatly to the speed] terclass league to have regular | MONS Deginning approximately

4.50 hat ‘‘buy’’ in town.

Be in Style witha

If you've never worn an EATONIA, you've missed the best
[f your present hat’san EATONIA
you'll be just that much more anxious to get under one of the
new Spring and Summer Models.
interested in the wide range of smart styles and shades. ¥ Come
in and look them over today. ind

éT.

éaionia Hat

You'll

be particularly

-Main Floor.

EATON

MARIT I

Eaton's

 

O

LIMITED

 

 

| CONVOCATION BALL - = Nova Scotian Hotel, Tues. May 16, 9 p.m.
JOE MILL’S ORCHESTRA BRIDGE AND DANCING

path TICKETS $3.00 ACOUPLE $2.00 SINGLE From Hotel Desk, University Store and Committee

ppt Bos Graduate Complimentary Tickets from LAURA MARSHALL, GEORGE THOMPSON

  
 
 
 
  

 

‘eee ei ee

 

te,

The: 5)

 

eae
ae a as a ar a Eu
ete ahr lie
Ree hays eh,
. ee as ill hn, 7. ,
