s he —— == a
— . . — » ine A

Da Se BNR ay? ally, ath oe
14 ¥ is y f “4

¥ s ~ “ . 4

- a + 4 J ws *
~
~~ A
ae Gwe

%

a

         
 
      
 
     
   
     
     
     
     
          
  

- Freshmen Representative Welcomes.
New Students to
To Dalhousie

 

PRESENTATIVE
| TO CLASS ’36.

The Council of Students represents and is elected by the
whole student body ian whith
each class and large sociecy has
its representative. The student
body of 1931-82 elected Mr.
Christie to help and guide you—
enable you to take your place
~~ with the other classes of DalPo housie. a

h Lou Christie came from the
e—/ Colchester County Academy in
the fall of 1929 to study Engin eering and Science at Dalhousie.
- During his three years here he
has taken an active part in all
branches of college activities.
Last year Mr. Christie was one
of the most outstanding men on
the Campus, giving himself
. wholeheartedly to sport, study,
and socialevents. He was President of Class ’82, and_ that

 
   
   
    
 
  

   
 
  
   
    
  
  
    

=
eS

   
   
   
 
 

  

of credit for their successful year.
Lou figured prominently in in. iterf

+

 
 

  

aculty sport, being captain
ie Engineers’ Rugby team

‘G

  

  

   
    
  
   
   

   
 

    

eee ERLE nts of the Engin-—s- eering Society and Delta Tau
Kae Fraternity were organized and
carried through successftilly by
Mr. Christie.
__-- «Leu is going to do all he can
to make Class ’36 the best class
that ever entered Dalhousie.
He will direct you in organizing
your class, managing your sports
and arranging social activities.
| GO TO HIM WITH YOUR
eis ~PROBLEMS AND  QUES-. > TIONS. HE IS YOUR LEADPome -UNTIL YOU. ELECT
YOUR OWN OFFICERS.

rr

ry

 

_R. L. CHRISTIE

__—_—_—_-~>---<___

TO THE FRESHMAN CLASS
—TRUST IN GOD AND KEEP
€ YOUR POWDER DRY.

 

 

y-: DALHOUSIE WELCOMES

 

- R. L. CHRISTIE—-YOUR RE
[ F 4 FF
+ £
BS ce
os) | Peed
o J
Me
a

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, SEPTEMBER 29th, 1982.

| President Stanley Urges
Class ’36 to Carry On

WELCOME TO ALL NEW DAL HOUSIA NS.

 

 

On behalf of the University I welcome the freshman class to all
the joys and tribulations which freshmen encounter. The sophomores
will tell you that you are the greatest class that ever entered Dalhousie.
But they don't expect you to believe them. The professors also will
tell you a number of things, which they hardly hope you will remember.
Lhe editors of the Gazette have asked me to address highly pontifical
words to you on this occasion, though it is hardly the right occasion.
Thus you move in a world of qualifications and ironies, through whach
your own thoughts will sooner or later emerge.

class must give Loua great deal]

1,/cil to welcome new material into
the halls of our universit

a
i ee

LO DE
a few

  

   
  
   
   
         
     
 

WALTER C. MacKENZIE, B.Sc.
President of the Students’
Council, 1932-33

—_——_~++-»—____

Dalhousie has Many
Treasures says
Council President

TO THE CLASS OF ’36.

Each Autumn, as the years
roll away, it becomes the pleasant duty of the Student's Coun
    
   
  
    

1
af
aha
*

 
  

      
  
 

ch i ap

   

  

words greeting, on
behalf of this body, to the Dalhousie Freshman Class of 1982.
May I, at the very onset, hasten
to assure you that the Student’s
Council is anxious that your first
impressions of Dalhousie be favourable ones, in which the
warmth of friendship is not lacking, and moreover that henceforth, you shall play great and
greater parts in our University
life here. Consequently we shall
do all in our power to provide
you with the aids and necessities
which will tend to make that life
more complete.

In comtemplating a university
education, you no doubt, ques-}
tioned its practical value and
wondered how much it would net
you in dollars and cents; your
calculations may be all astray,
but in the end you will find,
when you have taken the knocks
that shall surely come, and have
tried your opinions and beliefs,
—that university life has given
you much. You will find that
your net returns will depend
largely upon the ability and
effort which you have invested
during your stay here.

Only be confident of this fact
—Dallousie has ample treasures
in store for you in educational,
athlet‘c and soc‘al spheres.

May you enjoy them :n their
optimum proportion ajnd may
your life here be a happy and
aspiring one, with success to
crown your labours.

W. C. McKENZIE,

  
 
 

   
 

President of the Student s
Council.

 
 
   
     
       
   
    
   
  
  
       
    

 
  
   
    
    
    
    
  
 

Today I welcome you in a body, but I hope to become personally

acquainted with each one of you in the days to come.

Meantime, one

thing: Jrom the time you cross our threshold you are part of us.
Dathousie will do all she can for you; you can be loyal .o yourselves

only by being loyal to Dalhousie.

Enter into the spirit of the game,

and the rules of the game will not trouble you.

CARLETON STANLEY,

Dathousie University,
September 29, 1932.

President.

From the Editorial Chair

THE EDITOR SPEAKS

You are about to enter a new period of your life. You are about

to commence the third chapter in the Book of Life.
cha.

   
     

}
some unhappy ones.
of all these adventures.

You have read the

pter of Childhood, you have also read the chapter of Schooidays.
| You musi fave digested these thorouclly or you would not be en te
first page of the chapter of University. ha

Within the pages of this

ortion of your life you will meet with many happy experiences and
lt 1s left to you to appreciate the true value

While you are a member of the University it is up to you to be

something and do something worthwhile.

you do.

Above all be earnest in ail

In your studies and your other activities do your best.
If you study half-heariedly you are lost.

If you enter the life of

the University half-heartedly you lose all that is god in that life.

Do something. Do it well.

The Dalhousie Gazette welcomes you and wishes you every success.

DANIEL SPRY,

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.

 

Dal. Tennis Club|/Commerce Society

Says “Hello”

Freshmen: Hear ye: As you
are new in our midst I wish to
inform you that we have at
Dalhousie a tennis club. Last
year this club was organized
and Dal entered a team for the
Inter-Collegiate Tennis Championships and we were successful
in bring the title to Dalhousie.
This title had been held by
Acadia, our dearest enemy, for
the last few years, and of course
“what we have we wish to hold.”

Therefore, Freshmen, on behalf of the ‘Dalhousie Tennis
Club, I extend a hearty invitation to you to come to our
courts which are adjacent to the
Medical Science building on College St., and “strut your stuff
for old Dalhousie.”’

MILTON MUSGRAVE,
President D. T. C.

Sends Greetings

On behalf of the Commerce
Society I wish to convey to youa
hearty welcome to Class 36. We
trust that you will find your
life here as happy and profitable
as you haye anticipated.

The Commerce Society is to
Dalhousie what the Commercial
Club is to Halifax. Open to
members of all faculties it unites
individuals with the same interests and problems for their
mutual fellowship and advantage.

The Commerce Society is always a keen competition in Inter-Faculty sport; and the
“MILLIONAIRES BALL” is
one of the leading social events
of the college year. Come and
make yourself known to us—we
want to know you.

E. ROBERT

President Commerce

MACHUM,
Society.

 

 

CARLETON W. STANLEY,
B.A. (Tor.), M.A. (Oxon.),
President of the University

 

Sodales Debating
Society Plans
Extensive Year

OFFICERS AND MEMBERS
OF CLASS °36.

The Debating activi¥ies at
Dalhousie University are organized and operated entirely by
the University Debating Society
known as ‘“Sodales Debating
Society.’

As students registered at Dal
housie you have ali paid your
Student Council fee and have

automatically become a member of this debating society. As
such, it is entirely up to yourselves as to whether you will
take advantage of the benefits
which may be derived from
“Sodales.”’

Many of you have undoubtedly taken part in High School
debates and have thus experienced the delights which result
from attempting to express oneself in a clear and convincing
manner before a group of people.
Others of you may never have
taken an interest in debating.
May I leave this thought with
both groups.

“Every University graduate
is expected to be able to arise
when occasion demands and put
his thoughts in words before an
audience.’’ Also, many of you
w'll find yourselves engaged ‘n
occupations in which public
speaking will play an important
part.

To every one of you, and
especially to the student contemplating a profession which
involves public speaking, may
I say that Sodales Debating
Society offers an invaluable opportunity for you to fit yourself
for your life’s work.

Finally, we are veryanxious
to have you all interest yourselves in what is now your
debating society. I can only
assure you that a hearty welcome awaits each and every
member of Class ‘'86”’ at Sodales.

Sincerely,

POTTER OYLER,
President Sedales Debating Society.

_| FRESHMAN FROLIC--GARRICK THEATRE--"®>4Y,

s | VARIETY SHOW BY FRESHMEN AND FRESHETTES
Be ae Also BUSTER KEATON and JIMMY DURANTE In “SPEAK EASILY”

 

Price

 

 

     
  
    

 

FRESHMAN CLASS $:-:

 

‘Sophomores Issue

| Edict For Class

“36”

—- ——

*

FRESHMAN _ INITIATION.
The Initiation Committee
of Class ’35 wishes to take
this opportunity to thank
the staff of the Gazette for
permission to publish its restriction for the Freshmen.
This year the actual initiation is to take place AFTER
initiation week in order that
justice may be dealt out to
offenders of the laws.

The following then are the
results of the deliberations
of the Committee and are
to be enforced for one week
as described in Art. 1.

1. The rig is to consist
of a black beret with a gold
‘*F”’ sewn thereon. This beret is to be worn on ALL OCCASIONS, with the exception
of Sunday, for one week beginning on the day that the
rigs are given out and concluding with the FreshieSoph dance. The berets
must be worn to and during
the dance until the time of
the official burying of the
hatchet which will take place
during the evening. Berets
are to be worn in class if the
professor in charge has’ no
objections. All this above
ruling applies to Freshettes
as well as Freshmen.

2. Freshmen are not allowed to have or make dates
during this week nor may
they go to or near Shirreff
Hall. Freshmen are however allowed to escort ladies
to the Freshie-Soph. The
arrangements for taking a
lady can only be made on
the last day of the initiation
week, that is on the same
day that the dance takes
place.

3. Freshmen are ordered
to enter all buildings on the
Campus BACKWARDS.

4. Freshmen when talking to an upper classman
shall address him respectfully as ‘‘Sir.’’ Lack of restraint and discipline on the
part of a Freshman is not
to be tolerated under any
circumstances.

5. With the exception of
certain periods, namely the
changing of classes and in
class any freshman may be
sent on an errand to the
University Store by an upper
classman.

In concluding this notice
the Committee requests that
the name of a lawbreaker and
the nature of his offense be
immediately reported so that
on Judgment Day punishment may be meted out according to the crime.

SIGNED:
ROBERT McINTOSH.
DAN HARVEY.
JOHN SLAYTER.

Committee for Initiation.

OCTOBER 7th,
11 p. m.

35c. at Box Office

 

 

 

 

 
   
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
 
   

ee

 

 
  
 

 
 
 
 
   

  

- roms a > [ - he =
i Siete ite ni eee
ii pe ety r.™ ‘J

t ~~ hs
ae 9 Tee
re so
. —
mpi :

Varsity Teams
Outstanding in | Interest In All
Basketball University Sports

     
  
    

 

    
  

BL ae % Phe apacions new gymnasium Basketball. At Dalhousie, girls are well
cea pe a situated on the Studley Campus! poctetball shares with foot- represented in sport life. Under

the capable direction of Miss
Florence Harris and with the
co-operation of the co-ed managers of the various games,
teams compete in inter-class
league and college play.

Ground hockey will be startfag right away. The practices
are held after classes in the
afterncon, on the campus.

bs ___ is well equipped ee ig oteas pnen ball the distinction of being one
Be Been bythe Student Body of |°! Dalhousie's major sports
io fied on by, the Student Body of })ih in the number of particieae Wich equine nt for Basket-||P2™ts and in ge. Since
an oes sere 1. .4,|its inception Dal has been a
-F ye ball, es jie sags he member of mo ee he

PES ae Fred sAUUICvICS, ike . Ova Scotia

Wrestling, Fencing, Gymnastics, Bae eAccsten., At Dalrumbling, Corresting market /housc, basketball has, aby
ee acini lace for re- Deen promivert, Mee pom This is something that every
-- new gymnasium a p a Varsity and second squads your | ©. ay ia 5 a

creation while pursuing his Uni- collese has held the leadership girl should play, no matter if

hy i eae ee ee: rou've never even seen a hockey

for many years. In 1930 Dal| YO" ve Bs ere Te

Varsity won the City and Pro- stick. Games are played with

    
      
 

    
    
 

      
  

    
       
 

a

oe

 
     
 

re OE

 
 

- . |), . wersity career.
Boone 4x Fhe Physica

 
   
 

1 Director extends

 
       
      
   
 
 
 

  

% es a cordial invitation oe many vincial Leagues, and only exams i ee ee, Soa
Seeioniercm tovvisit the gym’ ‘3° prevented a Dal-Trojans fight |< = Su a wegen Senco"
—quainted and receive advice as for Maritime honougs. Inter-| *Y'PC°°!:

a ea
ane Ae
Ds lie

‘ ry
.

‘to which is the most beneficial
-_- -physjcal work for your health
mee hid the building up of a splen‘did physique. A hearty wel——s come awaits each and everyone
ef you in my office. |

ie ee a, WW. E-STIRLING,
oe. + -Physical Director.

+

"4. GED . THE HABIT. OF
DROPPING INTO MR. STIR
ae

NG’S OFFICE IN THE

 
   
 

faculty games have gained in
interest more and more and
promise to occupy a large pa:t
in school life this ees A large of October so ¢ec out the sneakpart of its popularity ts due to ers and shoris. Practices are
the fact that the Proferrors held in the gym two or three
eniered.a team in the last 4 times a week and there will also
years and walked off with the be a beginner’s class so those
Champicinship both times. who have never played should

vg 99 start this year. Before ChristDear John

mas an inver-class league is
By M. M.

BASKETBALL BEGINS SCON

  

   
     

Basketball coxamences the last

 
 

 
     
   
 

      
       
    
  
   

%
. a
ky
a
‘

iM
7 »

i F

oo

  
 
 

y Pa
ae

b

7

 
 
  
  

  

lhe

S organize] and after Christmas,
GYMNASIUM. | HE f one and scipetimes two teams
ad: TH RE TO HELP YOU GET compete ina City League. Also
_ STARTED IN ANY BRANCH | thought the/the inierccllegiate league is
ATHLETICS YOU MAY |weary Freshette and glanced| played with ihe Acadia and
SE. CHOOSE ONE|weakly ata piece of blank paper | Mount Allison co-eds.

G TO DO, AND D0Ojacross the top of which were} Swimming classes are conLL. REMEMBER |written the words “My First | ducted each week and are held
4 NEEDS {eeerericas of Thinkmoor Col-/in the Y. M. C. A. tank. Girls

Ses lege.” _ The events of the past are coached in stroke and diving

_____|week marched boldly and relent-) by Miss Harris and many enjoy |lessly through the harassed Haz-|able swims are available for
_,  ~.___ . Jel’s mind giving her no peace, nO| every one. |
The Canadian Officers Train-|rest and certainly nO ideas suit-| Ice hockey for co-eds! Skating Corps of Dalhousie sincerely| able for an English I theme-/ers are urged to show their in-____ welcomes all newcomers to this|A swift vision of that awful) terest in this sport. Come out
_—s University. The purpose of this}moment in the train appeared|to practices—you’ll be sure to
organization is to train men to|when Aunt Hepsie’s most treas-|/have a great time. Teams are

— be leaders in military affairs, | ured possession—a black leather | chosen to play against. Halifax

but, and this should always be| (real leather) suitcase—had come | and other girls’ teams.

borne in mind, a man who can|hurtling out of the rack upon her| ‘fhe co-ed managers of these

lead a platoon in the field of|unsuspecting head, — Another | sports ask for a large turnout of

battle can also be a leader in|picture appeared, a picture on] freshettes and remember, watch—
civil life. We are making £0]|which a Freshette could perhaps|the Notice Boards for timesand
attempt in Canada to build up| dwell a little longer than the/places for practices. The fol
a strong standing army, we are|previous one, a picture of a/| lowing are the managers for this
merely training men to defend) young man, a serious earnest | year.

their country if need should} young man who had disentangled
, ever arise. Thus, although we| Hazel and the black suitcase|Ground Hockey—Barbara Wal3 are a military organization, we|and then had suddenly smiled ker.

Che are not, as some would have you|and had seemed to think suit-|/lce Hockey —Helena Bishop.
believe, a militaristic organiza- | cases falling on bewildered Fresh- | Basketball Florence Keniston.
tion. | ettes an everyday occurrence. | Track—lIrene Matheson.

We shall make no attempt, as} Hazel wrote dreamily on the
is done in some universitigs, to| blank piece of paper, ‘‘My first
force anyone to join the C. O./impression of ‘’hinkmoor Coll_ ~—S«*T.C. +=There are many societies|ege was wonderful."’ After half

: at Dalhousie, and no man_can|}an hour spent on thinking about
take an active part in all Of|her first impression ‘‘Haze”’ realthem. Give the C. O. T. C.|ized that one sentence does not
some serious consideration when|constitute a theme. She
you choose those which you will| thought hard for a moment and
join, you will never regret it.|chewed her pen but the only
By all means, come to our|thing she could think of then
Smoker. This will be held|was herself standing before a
_shortly, and will be well adver-| High Mogul who was saying,
tised, both in the Gazette and|‘‘Seyen subjects, Miss Nutt?

f
= 9A

    
 

       
  
   
 
 
  
 

+i.

   
  

_

“A sad task,”

oy a See

   

 

4

 
 
   
  

   

  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

  
  

em
rata |
° :

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 

————

“DEAR JOHN”’

 

   
 
  
  
   
     
    
  
    
 
   
   
  
  
      
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
     
 
  
   

find out where she should be at
nine o'clock Monday morning,

suddenly slipping with a loud
crash upon the floor of the
main hall in the Arts building:
a picture of a serious young man
picking up the books and suddenly smiling as if a Freshette
dropping books on the floor was

ae ert daly ace at
3 ee on the motice boards. There | perhaps five would be better for ee ioe ee age
~~. +you will meet our officers, and |a start.” new faces, people, watchin 5
Re learn much more about us than} Hazel wrote laboriously, “My behks duee datncing ‘act on
Ay. can be said here. first impression of Thinkmoor people, finding out that the

College was very nice, that is,
my first impression was wonderful, I think it will be very easy to

 

serious young man’s name was
John, and that ‘he was a Freshman and that he wasn’t really

Theatre Night For

— SS . attend to my studies in such a : a at :
Pee ‘Freshmen Class derful place.” At the pres. Setious but really very witty.
ee os Pp ees, | Hazel wrote on her blotter
ae ent moment, however, “Haze “John.” She wrote on her
7 ___ On Friday, October 7th, at 11] fejt rather cold as it was getting ,

 
 

Re ss theme—"'The thing about Think
a moor College which impressed

ie me most was the heautiful situation.’’ She signed “her name
at the end—Ada Hazel Nutt—
the pen was still in her hand
and she drew another blank
piece of paper towards her; this
time the pen raced and there
was no hesitation—the heading
read, ‘Dear John.”

m., at the Garrick Theatre the

eshmen and Freshettes will pre-|!ate and she was certainly hunt a variety show under the very |gry and somehow attending to
able direction of the Sophmores. |her studies did not seem such
a Brats or on cag oo aoe a good idea after all. The
points to a night of realfurn. ’ |Freshette nibbled thoughtfully
_Besides the stage performance,|0n an apple as picture after picthe show will ie thentomnedy ture flashed through her mind;
ee. Jie ve eats on uster/the first, a picture of herself
: eee ee Sane eae walking down endless stairs in
ee oe pelhodstnns and|order to find the dining hall
a Se usixns. Ad-jonly to end up in the furnace

is of
: he by

bee invitation alone. room; the next a pi f her
totes pes, TOOm; the / picture of her ———_—

Har a eke shee self wandering vaguely around) The Esquimaux are God’s
r at the Dal. Store. | with a load of books trying to| Frozen People. )

’

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

a picture of that load of books |

weeks time.
Boards and your “Gazette.’’

Big Year

ASKS FOR SUPPOR1

Dalhousie Glee Club is glad
that you are with us, Fresheites
and Freshmen, not only as the
time-honoured first year students
but also as prospective individual cogs in the many working
wheels of this Institution, which
through continuous, hakmonious
and efficient effort, have made
this Dalhousie of ours what it is
in every sphere.

We ajm, in the Glee Club, to
constitute not only a realm of
entertainment on as high a
plane as possible, but also to be
a meeting place, a ‘‘something
in common,’ “a stajmpingground, if you will, of the
student body, wherein we may
have a real “‘get-together’’ for
the furtherance of friendships,
old and new, and good will,
which all go to make up that
vital something which is so very
necessary to any University
esprit-de-corps.

Now, each of you as new members is cordially invited and
welcomed to the various attivities of the Glee Club, and it is
hoped that you will feel it, not a
duty to be performed, but a
pleasure and an opportunity
to be taken advahtage of, if
you are able in any way to help
the organization in an even
more direct way than being a
staunch supporter.

Mark Twain once said, “If
you do not like our weather—
wait }a minute.” There is. a
certain parallel herein to which
I’d like to draw attention; if
some numbers throughout the
year do not entirely satisfy
your particular taste or sense of
the aesthetic, why “wait a minute’’ before uttering too destructive criticism, for the next performance may be exactly to
your taste, and anyway, what
we as a solid organization need
is logical constructive criticism.
In fact we invite it.

Under adverse circumstances
and conditions last year the Glee
Club went ahead to take a splendid place in student life and
activities, and I do not hesitate
to say that, with the new gymnasium at our disposal, with
officers and members working in
united effort, we should look
forward to a big year in this
department of student life. |

Sincerely,
D. K. MURRAY,
Pres. Glee Club,

S$ er

 

few weeks, where, after a short
business session, a social evening
is spent and usually a short play

or skit is presented by some of

the girls.

Delta Gamma has a welcome
for everyone of you and we hope
to see you all at our first meeting which will be held in a few
Watch the Notice

  

aes Officers’ Training Corps

: DALHOUSIE IN SPORTS.--PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE
“ Ne . Co-Eds Take Keen|Glee Club Plans Dal Pucksters Pro
minent In College
Athletics
Hockey.

Hockey, a game that should
be Dalhousie’s biggest And most
popular sport, is gradually building itself up to the glorious standards of past years, and we hope
in time to enter the Marilime
Intercollegiate Championships.
This, of course, depends on the
support that YOU give your
school. Make it a point to see
Laurie Teasdale.

 

Gymnasium Pastimes.

BADMINTON—tThe game of
Kings and the King of Games.
Badminton is Dalhousie’s fastest
growing and most popular pastime. It may be played at any
time in the Gymnasium, and on
Sat. afternoons there are regular
mixed doubles played. © Racquets are supplied free of
charge by the Athletic Director,
Mr. W. E. Stirling or Miss
Harris.

For those who demand pastimes of skill and calculation we
have a Gymnasts Club and a
Fencing Class. There are certain fixed hours for instruction in
groups, while personal help is
available at any time. Mr. Stirling is in charge.

Boxing and Wrestling are the
two coming ‘squared ring’’ activities at Dal. A permanent
ring and mats are available to
everyone who is interested, and
experienced coaches will be present to give you instruction.

DALHOUSIE TENNIS
~ TOURNAMENT.
LADIES SINGLES—For the
G. Fred Pearson Trophy.
MEN’S SINGLES For the
Munroe Trophy.
Entries will be received by—
Ladies—-Elizabeth Saunderson, B4594.
Mien’s—Milton M. Musgrave,
B5729.
Jack Berringer.

[ENTRIES CLOSE FRIDAY,
OCT. 7, at six o’clock.
Tournament begins Sat. Oct.

8, on the Carleton Tennis|

Club Courts opposite Forrest
Building.

ALL MEMBERS OF THE FRESHMAN

gee ae

—— eT so aes

  

 

Football Captures
Major Honors In
College Activities
Football is Major Sport.

The major sport at Dal ever
since its inception, has been
football; and what a record has
since been piled up. Back in the
days when Valhousie was.a little
college of about 70 or 80 students
situated on the site of the present city hall, Dal had a live
organization known as the Dal
Football Club. Away back in
1867, we find as ofticérs such
greai footballers as E. D. Miller,
H. A. Bayne and J. J. McKenzie. Lhe names of the teams
the ‘ligers played sounds like an
advertisement for a Railroad.
In one season the team played
Montreal, Fredericton, Antigonish, besides the regular Wanderers and Acadia games. _ Suine
schedule, wasn’t it? ‘Dhe club
had an Intercollegiate team that
;won several _ Intercollegiate
Championships.

In 1900, we find the Dal Tigers
andthe Wanderers forming a
city league; to be joined later
by the Garrison team. As the
years rolled by, Acadia, H. M.S.
Cornwall, Services and Navy
joined the liague; but the two
old standbys of the league were
the ‘Tigers and the Wanderers.
Since the inception of the League
the games between the old rivals
have been classics of thrill, spills
and excitement, while the names
of the players reads like a page
from WHO'S WHO—men who
are now prominent in political,
business and social life—not only
in Nova Scotia but in Canada.

The Second team, or the Intermediates as they are called,
compete with Wanderers, King’s,
Acadia, and the N. S. Technical
College. On this team, Freshmen, are positions Waiting for
those of you who are interested
Constant practice will qualify
you to hold a position. If you
have ever played before, or
would like to play, get in touch
with the manager, Art Pattillo.

There is one more class in
which you are eligible—namely
Interfaculty, A series of games
are arranged between the various faculties of the College;
and herein you will find a keen
rivalry. Support your faculty

 

 

}

—be THE faculty of the school.

CLASS ARE RE
QUIRED TO FILL OUT THE FOLLOWING FORM.

....' Gazette” Staff
_Glee Club—Dramatic
Boxing, Wrestling

DOTS 2 tomer, cet, ea epee es a ah a

CITY ADDRESS

Telephone Number

Delta Gamma 1. Have you ever taken part in Collegiate Athletics?
te Give particulars.
2. What sports are you particularly interested ij?
Wien ft recheihese= ; at sports are you particularly witerested yn:
The’ Delta’ Gamma Secieey 3. Have you ever done any debating?
€ ce : ‘ “c » : ; ) - ; “7, . 5 j
welcomes you to’ Dalhousie and Would you like to: . ,
hopes that you will join us in all 4. Have you ever done any newspaper or magazine work?
Vs . il< ’ L . c ~ * . - . * = ~
Bey cays ye aes Editvorial? Business Staft ? Reporting?
our activities. Our society 1S/- Ds v ts Pith cote sil (ab a. 5
for every virl-and i¢ 96 the only! O you act: ay any iastrument: Ballet or tap dancVETY & atl? IW if = OTL) ot ats we Aer thes
group itn the college to which all aS F Give full partis ulars. i K
ihe citls belong. «Te te moinec: 6. Were you ever a member of the Cadets: Where?
essary for anyone to wait until Would you like to train for an officer?
they are asked to join: all belono | (° Check the following activities in which you are interested and
Phi ave paid their D. A. A Cc would like to take an active part.
alt 5 aie ahah.) Freshmen. Freshettes.
fhe Delta Gamma Society has :
a pin of its own and every boy |~~~~ cee ee
° 3 aYT shea?
in the college should be proud | ~~~ ket i] “Peld k
to wear one. These will be put} Ten e a ate ( : ockey
on sale later and may be had|~->~ Bad: pe ee Pra tens oh ea a Bads Seek
from the secretary-treasurer for |= PaO ER DI 0 opt 2 0) Gs daa, Badminton
a small sum. See aitewete hw DY ieee lentiis
_ The meetings are held every |-~-~ Debating _..Debating

“Gazette” Staff

Glee Club—Dramatic

This information is for records only, and involves no obligation

 
