 

 
   
   

" i
*

       
 

2
=

a National Confer= “cence

= Discuss Exchange Scholari oe es te 3 ships

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
      
   
   
     
      
  

7

  

——=

 

“ant At the meeting of the officers
of the National Federation of
Canadian University Students
* held recently in Montreal, Percy
- _-G.- Davies, M. P., Secretary of
the Federation, presented a re:
port on the Exchange of Under~~ graduates Plan. Mr. Davies re___- ported in particular on the disSer -eussion of the Exchange ScholarShips which took place at_the
-_ Jast session of pe ene Conference of Canadian» Universi- |
” eo ee “This Conference is com-|2.THE LATE FULTON TUTTLE
posed of the pisces and | s:
registrars of the Canadian uni- 2
~~ versities, and the NFCUS, Third Year Medee fete donate | |
~~ + Seeretary was invited to bes i
ee * SA aes the Exchange Plan ical Student Dies
-_-was discussed. :
--*~President R. C. Wallace of Suddenly
University of Alberta
eas ti e | i , had worked
eS “The important _ thing
to meé* to be, said Dr.

)

  
   
  

 

mI

 

  

 
  
 
 
   
 
    
       

  

It is with sincere regret that
at students of ability|we publish at this time the
t out as ambassadors, who | news of the passing of Fulton
| ot be-a6- bound down. to}Tuttle, a third year Dalhousie
. studies, because they find Medical student. If. immortal
studies difficult to keep|ity 1s but an irridescent dream
h, as e unable to|the most illustrious lives that
ife. They] Earth has-known inay well be

by

= =
‘¢ thy:
aa =

 
   
    
  

   
     
   
       
    
     
   
    
 
 
 
 
  

   
   

  
 

I

    
 

       

  
 
 
      
 

    
  
  

est § TO
‘abs represented broken pillars
7 and unfinished shafts.
of the men who perished in the
bloom of youth when all our
skies were black with clouds of
war. Count the poets who scarce
began to sing ere death laid hold
on them. Such great lives as
Keats, Shelley, Byron and Poe.
Remember the men of genius
whose sun was eclipsed at. noon,
Shakespeare and Stevenson.
Fulton Tuttle was born in
1904 at Pugwash, N.S. At the

  

wae
;

Mgt

3 a yle to bring back
_ to their university both sides of
NS 4 the university they have visited

_. _2.J think we all agree that
_ the scheme is a statesmanlike
one and we ought to remember
the credit of our Canadian undergraduates that they initiated
: it by themselves.” oe
Ke President Murray of the UniE - . versity of Saskatchewan, in
‘

 

whose opinions Principal Wal
lace of University College (Toronto) concurred, thought that

there were two excellent reasons
for supporting the scheme, The
; first reason is educational.
“There is a great tendency for
< our students to become too re
housie, but at the end of a year
and a half he left because of ill
health. Later he became a chartered drug clerk ‘and worked
with MacLeod & Balcom, Free
Think}

age of 17 years he entered Dal- |

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 18th, 1933.

No. 11

 

Scholarships Must} Intercollegiate

Be Applied For
This Month

:

Several scholarships are being
offered to Dalhousie students.
To win thes eapplications must
be putin at the University office,
and a certain scholastic standard
must be attained. For the Allan
Pollok Scholarship and the John
Blanchard Bursary two distinctions are required.

The Khaki University Scholarship is open for third year
students. A record of overseas
duty by applicants or their
parents as well as. distinctions
in three classes.

The Bruce Bursary is open to
second year students and also
requires distinction in three clas
ses,

by the positions of trust and
managements to which he was
appointed by his fellow students.
He was for two yedrs treasurer
of the Dalhousie Medical Society, and. manager of the Dalhousie Book Bureau. Besides
these offices he was treasurer
of Phi Chi Fraternity for 1931-32
and his excellent showing of the
accounts at the end of the year
brought him a unanimous. reelection to that arduous. and
often thankless task.

In behalf of the Dalhousie
Gazette we tender to his griefstricken parents, brothers and
sisters, our deepest and most
sincere sympathy in this their
hour of tribulation and sorrow.
There is nothing we can say that
would be of any avail to assuage
your grief, except to commend
you to Him who has said “I will
not leave you comfortless.’’

———__~»-@__—
Professor J. S. Bentley is
recovering from his severe illness. At present he is in the
West Indies and will spend the
rest of the winter in N. Carolina.
The University of Saskatchewan

goalie was? is
that Oyler, coach, is pinning his

o
Hockey Begins

| Holding regular workouts at
the Forum the Tigers are training
inard for their opening. game with
St. Marys, Wednesday night.
Playing an exhibition game
against Moirs the other day and
lost 6-0. I wonder where the

It is understood

hopes on Ken Purtill, but Purtill
claims he isn’t going to: play.
Looks bad for the ‘Tigers for
Ken is a good goalie.

After the game Friday night
starting at 7.30, there will be
skating until 11.80. The students are requested to support
their team and with the inducement-of a skating period afterwards there should be a good
representation of students at the
game.

U. K. C. Notes

The Haliburton Club held its
first meeting of the term on
Saturday, Jan. 14th. Professor
Griffin, K. Wainwright and CarrHarris were the speakers for
the evening, and the papers
they gave were of much interest.
The programme of songs, refreshments and toasts was en
 

joyed by the members—of whom.

about twenty-five were present.

 

Another of the renowned
King’s dances is scheduled for
the Residence. This time it is
being arranged by a committee
headed by H. D. Smith, and is
slated for Tuesday, January 24th

 

In the first game of the I termediate Hockey League, King’s
met deteat at the hands (or by
the sticks). of the Tech squad.
The play was:good throughout
and the score stood one-all at
the end of the first period.
Monk Smith, who scored King’s
goal, was injured at the end of
the second period, and following
his retirement, the King’smen

"UNIVERSITY LECTURE SERIES BEGIN AT DALHOUSIE

Professor Harvey Delivers
Opening Lecture In Series

 
   

“PROFESSOR D. C. HARVEY.

 

Combined Comm
erce Engineering

Ball This Evening

The Boilermakers-Millionaires

Ball will be held this evening,
at —the-- Novas.

January 18th,
Scotian Hotel. This affair promises to be one of the outstanding
social events in the history of
the college. The committee in
charge report a large sale of
tickets and the spirit exhibited
by the students in supporting
this combined venture augurs
well for its success. The Hagg
arty orchestra will furnish the
music.

All those attending the Ball
are requested by the Committee
to write their own name amd
the name of their partner on
the reverse side of the ticket
to be presented at the door.
This will greatly facilitate the
work of those in charge and will
be greatly appreciated by them.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Last Friday evening, in the
gymnasium, Professor D. C
Harvey delivered the first lecture in a series which has been
arranged by the university.

Professor Harvey's subject
was ‘lhe Intellectual Awakening of Nova Scotia. The
founding of Halitax and the
other communities which were
established about the same time
was a conscious etiort of the
British government aimed at
establishing an essentially British community which would
serve as a barrier against the
encroachments of New FErance.
‘Lhe original settlers were, many
of them, educated, cultured
gentlemen—patrons of intellectual activity. Closeon the heels
of the British immigrants came
New Englanders demanding al
the rights of British subjects aind
preserving their minds from in
tellectual stagnation by studying the Bible and indulging in
theological controversies. After
the American Revolution came
a band of 20,000 Loyalists and
disbanded soldiers, many of
whom were educated and talented men. The Loyalists contributed to the cultural and intellectual awakening of Nova Scotia
by establishing a bishopric, a
college and a magazine. They
tried to instillin their children
loyalty to the British Constitution as they knew it. Hardy

Scottish immigrants came to the

shores of Nova Scotia in 1778,
from 1808-1805, and, in a great

wave, after the Battle of Water
loo in. 1815, Rev. Thomas
MacCulloch, who ,arrived by
accident in 1808, initiated among
the Scottish settlers intellectual
movements which have not yet
spent themselves. From the
fusion of four strains—the English of 1749, the pre-Loyalist
New Englanders, the Loyalists,
and the Scots—emerged in the
period between 1812 and 1835

 

 

stricted in their outlook,” Dr.
Murray said. The other reason
is a national one. “T forsee
great danger of estrangement
hetween the East and West in
the years to come, and every
movement that brings the people
of the East and West together

a distinctive type, the Nova

has extended his leave till Sep- Scotian.

were beaten to the superior
tember next.

shooting of the Tech. men.

  
  

man’s Drug Store and also Curtis Drug Store. After a few
years he left Nova Scotia and
went to the United States where
he worked for two years with )
an insurance firm.

He was a typical student.

 

The magazines and newspapers which appeared previous
to 1818 were not critical of the
governing class. But with the
founding of the ‘“‘Acadian Re
 

DAWSON CLUB.

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 

  

Contrary to previous notice
and rumors the Dawson Geolo
ing E : ; me
* | : gical Club will meet at the home}corder’’ in that year, letters,
is of great national value. Endowed with a keen intellect Coming vents of Miss Dennis, 45 Coburg Rd.,|discussions and ‘controversies
_ An Exchange Scholarship per- he sought for knowledge is | January 21st at 8 o'clock. Bob|quickened public thought. Oth- mits the holder to study for OBS | PSE honoured profession ré-|} Dawson Geological Club—Saturday, Jan. 21, at 8 p. m.—J} Dove, medical student, will tell|er papers followed in qui
Nie year at a Canadian university | spected by all men in all times.

; at home of Miss Dennis, 48 Coburg Road of his voyages to the Arctic in
other than his ‘shome” univer-;He started his Medical course

succession. Joseph Howe pur
boi , the summers of 1931 and ’32.| chased the “Nova Scotian in
: sity without paying tuition fees in the fall of 1930. With great|} Sociology Club—Lecture on China—Jan. 18, at 4.30 p. m.— }| Mr. Dove accompanied his uncle|1828 and made of it the leading
a | he details may be_obtained| courage in the face of surmount- in Room 4, Arts Building. “Bob” Bartlett, famous Arctic| paper in British North America.
bev. rom the local N.P.C.U'S. “re-) able -difficulties, and, with / con- ae explorer on his last two voyages.' Schools were established. ScienBinh _ presentative. scientious study he passed all University Lecture—Professor G. H. Henderson—‘'Radium Professor G. Vibert Douglas,; tific and literary societies, with
h oe res his exams with credit. He was and Haloes ‘—University Gymnasium, Friday, Jan. 20.}| who recently returned from the| magazines and newspapers, conas a ——_++>——_ a typical example of those ae : Shackelton Antarctic Expedition] tributed to adult education.
Be who made Dalhousie famous.|| Hockey Match—St. Mary s vs Dal—Wednesday, Jan. 18. will also be there. With the} Merchants organized to_ press

ae MIDLOTHIAN HOLDS In deeds of daring rectitude he

presence of these two men ajtheir claims before the British
frigid atmosphere might be ex-|Government. By intense econopected, but however cold it] mic and intellectual preparation
may be, it is safe to assume that| Nova Scotians formulated the
your evening will be most en-| principles which, after the trial
joyably spent. A good gather-|of Howe for libel in 1835, led
ing of both outside members andj to Responsible Government, and
students, is expected. Reserve| which, carried further, have reyour time for Saturday evening,|sulted in the British CommonJanuary 21st. at 8 o'clock. wealth of Nations.

BOILERMAKERS--MILLIONAIRES BALL

‘* Biggest and Best Dance of the Year’’

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL JANUARY 18th, 1933

Couple $3.00 HAGARTY ORCHESTRA Refreshments in Main Dining Room

| ; scorned all miserable aims that
ae FIRST MEETING ended with self, in thoughts
"The first meeting of the Mid-|sublime that pierced the night
 lothian Club for the year 1933|like stars with undaunted pera was held at Sherriff Hall, Friday | sistence he followed man’s search
eels Fiornoon. for knowledge.
_ -—s Catherine Hebb, the president,| His reputation for honesty and
was in the chair and plans!integrity as well as his keen
discussed for the coming term) business ability were evidenced

Basketball—Senior game—Dal vs Tech—Thursday, Jan. 17,
5.30 p. m.—College Gym.

 
  
   
    
 
  
    
 
  
   

e Class 34—January 17, 12 noon—Room 8.

Class 33—January 17, 12 noon—Room 4.

.

as

ae
>

    

 

 

 

ee

 

 
  
  
  

 

 

+

a

      
   
  

—

"

a ~~"
*
eri
F tr
i Ger aaa
i Pe
, bm
ILS”
es
~ «

 
    
     
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
 

mt, *
oe

os _.

ys
he ee
ti 2
aie:

cn
ee
a
ie
;

_ DONALD A. MAHON

terion of ability—an attempt is made to give a numerical classifi
af

 obta
Aas, at in many subjects examinations are simply a measurement of

: wr ; Z i . . s 4
am awareness of their value than to having the students merely
Ly i,

by

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”

 

" EDITORIAL STAFF.

Editor. Managing Editor.
- HAROLD I. EGAN DAVID R. ALLAN,
i. 5 aire B. 9602.
Associates,
ELIZABETH MARCH
arene FRANK GOUDGE
las : SAM MARGOLIAN
: '.L. DUBINSKY, B.A.
.D. Y. DOYLE, B. A.
''. | News Editor, NEWS STAFF. Women’s News Editor.
JOHN FISHER | RUTH CRANDALL
tos 2 BASAL B. 9746.
et ; - Associates.
Borden Stoddard ‘Merle Purtill
Robert Batt Marg. Montgomerie

Mary F. Simmonds
Marion Morton
Dorothy Gray

- Robert Dorman
_E. B. Rogers

3 Sports Editor ~ Co-ed Sports.
MURRAY LLOY GLADYS'M. JOST.
a . . B. 9746.
=  Assocrate Associate

Hugh McGlashen Dorothy Vernon
BUSINESS STAFF.
Asst. Business Manager
CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.
6. B. 31384.
Jean Britain
Charlie Lorway

Business Manager

Proof Editor.
ERIC D. MURRAY
George H. Murphy

 

_Editorial office B. 5676

 

 

LECTURES AND EXAMS.

_~ ~ About two weeks of this college term have passed yet certain

‘professors and students are already worrying about the final examinations. Certain classes have been warned that a keener attention to what is said in the lectures is needed if the students hope
to obtain a pass in the Spring. Marks are discussed between
student and professor—students gathered in groups discuss
marks, ‘plucks’ amd ‘passes.’ One student informs his listeners
that he will pass ‘So and So’s exam in the Spring—he has discovered the type of examination that he sets now and is no longer worrying about obtaining a 40% in the final examination.
cries. .

- But where is all this leading? Consciously or unconsciously
habits are formed by individuals which guide their actions. It is
easy to understand the habit of catering to written examinations
—of weighing the value of a lecture topic according to its possibil
__—_—s ity as an exam question.. Marks have become, it seems, the cri
to the knowledge accumulated by the students during the

year. Many have learned the technique of passing exams or even
aining distinctions with a minimum of effort—for they realize

 

Chie se Se

m he. student s ability to assimilate a great quantity of undigested
acts during a hectic period of cramming preceding the examina
 

tions and then returning them to the professor on the exam.. Such

a state of affairs is far from good for any university.

‘_. A possible solution of this grave problem lies in the replacement of the lecture system by discussion groups whenever possible.
In. certain classes in the college where this latter procedure is
followed students have found that regular reading on the assigned

_ topics is essential. Likewise this system stimulates the interest
of. each individual student, permits the expression of ideas and
and above all teaches students to think for themselves rather
than wallow along in the slough of reading and memorization resulting from the lecture system.

UNIVERSITY LECTURES

The series of University Lectures which began last Friday
evening, provide an opportunity for the students to attend an
intellectual entertainment of the highest order. The University
has. done its work nobly and is to be complimented on its efforts.
A program hzs been arranged which embraces a variety of topics.
The opening lecture on historic Nova Scotia will be followed this
week with a scientific discourse by Professor Henderson. The
succeeding lectures will touch upon-such subjects as the American
Civil. War; the history of certain medical achievements; the influence of Roman Law on the world to-day and Antarctic Explorations. The concluding lecture of the series will be on ‘‘Shakespeare as a Touchstone of Literary Criticism.’’ The University
also arranged a special student rate so that the price of admission
would not prevent anyone from attending.

. Despite all the elaborate preparations of the University, the
characteristic apathy of the students towards anything intellectual,
not. required for examination purposes, was exhibited at the opening lecture. The attendance was very poor—the mejority of
students friled to take advantage of the great opportunity offered
them to hear a very interesting lecture concerning our own native
province—this is certainly not the proper spirit to be exhibited
by a body of University men and women.

a ARMIGERI LIBERALITER.

The idea that. a college education has any practical value
whatsoever is fast dying out. To-day a B. A. means but little
more than did a high school diploma a few years ago. | Its entire

_ value lies not in the exact mathematical amount of knowledge

acquired, but in the appreciation and use of that knowledge, wheth_er the amount be great or small. It is of little benefit to be able
_to translate Catullus flawlessly; it is of great benefit to be able to
_ interpret and like that translation. An honour student may get
only presents from his doting relatives out of his college career,
while the class dunce may develop a lasting interest in the very
subjects he flunked. The trend to-day shold be more towards
introducing and explaining the subjects, and striving to inculcate

‘parrot the mouthings of the professor. To grow to like, to reason,

ce and to formulate opinions upon his studies, this should a scholar
er

‘
ee

, and. just. regard examinations as he regards other hoary jokes,
4 tot * cae ie! : ve ; ss Sept

A San, ih j “@ . : je
a")
oe

   
 

      

  

P
fe
e

es:
“V

    
  

'

  

COMMEN

Mr. Bennet and Russia.

Winston Churchill‘s New Book.

  

Yugo Slavia.

A standing danger to the peace
of Europe is the Dictatorship
of Belgrade in Yugo-Slavia. The

Manchester Guardian
20th publishes a letter, signed
by such eminent men as Arthur
Evans, oH: As L. Fisher, G. P.
Gooch, Gilbert Murray among
others, recommending that “‘his
Majesty's Government, in close
association with the Government
of France, whose relations with
Yugo-Slavia have been peculiarly intimate, and acting in intelligence with the friendly governments of Prague and Bucharest, should press for a radical
change in the Constitution of
the Yugo-Slav State, and that
meanwhile no further financial
facilities should be accorded to
the present Government at Belgrade.” The ex-conspirators
who are now in power are alone
responsible for this situation.
Their methods for curing discontent is brute repression and
they have caused a situation
to arise which affords a constant temptation to neighbouring Governments hostile to
Southern Slav unity. The continued pacific methods of the
opposition to the Dictatorship
(whose aim is a Federal Constitution which will take into
consideration the distinct ethnic
and linguistic character of the
various elements in a kingdom
of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes),
should not blind us to the truth
that all the elements from which
a war is made are here. This
same ruling clique in Belgrade
helped to make one war; common diplomatic action should
organise to prevent them from
making another.

Mr. Bennett and Russia.
Many English newspapers,
hostile to the agreements entered
into at Ottawa, are at present
criticizing Mr. Bennett for what
they term his underhand methods. At the Conference, he objected strongly to trade with
the Soviet because it was a
State “which we as a country
oppose and must refuse to support by interchange of trade.”
He urged the British Government to veto their timber agreement with Russia. It now appears that Canadian business is
more important to him than
Imperial sentiment, for is he
not secretly approving the exchange of Canadian cattle and
hides for Russian oil and anthracite coal? The Engiishmen is
beginning to think that he has
been humbugged by the man
whom some English papers ironically term ‘‘the consistent Mr.
Bennett.”’ The Conservative
organs of this country will not
be slow to answer this charge.
In any event, Mr. Bennett has
to choose between consistency
and the elienation of Canadian
agriculture interests.

Winston Churchill’s new
book.
The versatile Mr. Winston

Churchill has published a new
book, Thoughis and Adventures
which makes interesting reading.
Mr. Churchill is one of those
who is always in the midst of
affairs, and his book radiates
his own personality and energy,
Spy stories, flying experiences.
observatiOns about cartoonists,
am experience with a notorious
criminal are found along with
a thesis that today there are no
great personalities or leaders,
that modern life presents only
an “array of blameless medioccrities,’’ which he attributes to
the mass effects in modern life.
Not many will agree wholeheartedly to those parts of the
book in which Mr. Churchil
attempts a wholesale condemnation of modern life, but most
will agree with Mr. Stephen
Gwynn who says that Mr.
Churchill “is the most exciting
writer since Macaulay.”

   

T The

of Dec.

 

January 18th, 1938

 

W aste-Paper
Basket

“‘unconsidered trifles”’

Scanning Our

Contemporaries.

 

The latest number of The
Alumni News gives the place
of honor to Dalhousians who
have recently written and published books. This is as it
should be, for the pride of a
college is the literature produced
by its staff and alumni. But
there was a notable omission,
“The Grass Roof’ by Younghill Kang. He was two years
at Dalhousie and took only
English and History, but he has
so succeeded in mastering the
foreign language that he was
able to write a bookinit. ‘The
Grass Roof” is autobiographical
and tells of his struggles to
obtain an education. The Times
Literary Supplemeni gave it a
full column review.

* * * *

Another appearance of a Dalhousian in literature is found in
the ‘‘Life’’ of Joseph Wright, the
Yorkshire pit-bov who became
a great philologist. In a group
of pundits taken at Heidelberg in
1888, there is a slight young
figure labelled H. P. Jones,
He succeeded Liechti as Professor of French and German in

1907.

* “Depression or no depression”
cried the McGill students, ‘our
dances must go on,” and they
did. Dalhousians are believed
to be sophisticated and spoiled
as they needs must hold their
dances in a luxuriantly appointed Ball Room and at just as
luxuriant a price. But McGill
has set the pace with their
“hard times party,’’ which marked the beginning of the new
year's festivities. All those attending were attired in their
threadbarest depression clothes.
The admission (mark you dance
committees) was 23 cents (cash),
Frolic and frivolity continued
amid newspaper decorations, interspersed with soap-box seats.
untill a ‘‘Hunger march” was
inaugurated under a soup banner
to the wicket where rations were
doled out. Refreshments were
thus consumed in proletariat
fashion reclining on the bare
floor. College dances of this
type have met with unforseen
popularity, both at McGill and
elsewhere. Students of Toronto
U and also University of B. C.
recognized the necessity for simpler social functions. The students entered whole-heartedly
into the endeavour. They -sacrificed many formal dances for
informal affairs, eventually admitting that they enjoyed themselves more at the latter than
they had done at the more
formal functions.

* * * *

“McGill University does not
need athletic prowess for advertising purposes. I have travelled widely and heard McGill's
fame proclaimed in many lands,
but never once was the prowess
of her athletes mentioned. McGill’s well-earned reputation
rests On a more permanent
foundation, one of solid, educa- se eh ae
tional achievement.’’

Sir Arthur Currie.

* +

A poster, displayed recently
on the McGill campus notice
board portrayed a ram, wearing
a mortar board and sticking out
its tongue at the world. It
announced the generation of a
new Independent Critical Magazine and symbolized it s attitude
tlwards critics in general. This
Independent critical and literary
publication, named ‘‘The Black
Sheep,” will make its first appearance early next month on
the McGill campus. The Black
Sheep, unlike the Daily, will not
be subject to the control or
supervision of any Student Organization. The publishing of
brief and pointed articles, of
University and general interest,
as well as writings of literary
merit, is to be the aim of the
Editors. The Black Sheep
is to be edited by the former
Editor in Chief of the Daily.

* ok

To err is human; that is, any
one can make .a mistake. Sir
Rennell Rodd split an infinitive
in his Halifax address,—‘“‘in order to justly appreciate,”’ and he
his metapnhors,—
factor entered the

mixed
new

also
‘This
arena.’

* * kK *

Halifax Girls in 1840. ‘‘Halifax ladies, we are bound both in
truth and gallantry to say are
very handsome and accomplished. In dress they study neatness as well as richness and
beauty; and in dancing they do
not make the active motion of
the limbs the leading occupation. They appear as if placed
on the floor for conversation—
and enjoyment, and when the
music woos them to the dance,
they slide gracefully and naturally into it, as if without physical

exertion.”
The N. S. Royal Gazette,
Aug. 5, 1840.
4 He

The Massey Rhind bust. of
Lord Dalhousie, our founder, is
not only a special treasure for
this institution, but a notable
addition to the artistic wealth
of the country.. It was studied
from the marble bust in Dalhousie Castle, which stands at

the back of ‘‘The Quarterdeck,”
x oe OK OX

 
 

Whiskey Jake

 

A rag, a bone, a hank of hair
Was Kipling’s Fool’s lady fair

But mine instead has

knowledge

some

| For she has been, you know,

“‘to college”

Now she thinks she’s very smart

For she has learned a poem by
heart

And knows a phrase from Bernard Shaw

And about Art can hem and haw

Little learning is very bad

Which oft makes me think I,
egad,

Would gladly trade my little
jewel

For the woman of Kipling’s Fool.

 

The brain wave some numbskull had about fifty years ago
which resulted in the idea that
examination marks should not
be made known is scheduled to
go the way of the hoop skirt.
Why should a student labour
for three months and then not
know the exact result of his
finale on his audience of one?
He Has no way of knowing what
was wrong with his presentation, or wherein he was weak.
He gets absolutely no criticism
of his work. The majority of
the faculty are opposed to this
antiquated idea. The mosscovered shellbacks who favour
it are the sort who call each
other on the telepltione then
kittenishly ask them to ‘‘guess
who this is.”’

 

There are so many caluminous
stories floating around about
that New Year’s Eve houseparty that in justice to the girls
somebody ought to put a stop
to them once and for all by
telling the truth of the affair.
There are some who weren’t
drunk, and there are some who
weren't necking. Yes, indeed.
They are the two who went
home early. :

 

It is no longer considered a
gaucherie

For young girls to live in debauchery.

And again it is not considered
treachery

For a wife to be caught in lechery.

For girls in a manner affectedly
blasé

Speak of morals as being quite
passe

Cheer up, oh men, it is for our
pleasure

We neck in haste, and marry at
leisure,

 

SHANE’S MEN’S WEAR SHOP

Announce their

ANNUAL JANUARY SALE

For 10 days only beginning

When Lord Dalhousie was
here as Governor he was one
of the best racquet players in
the garrison. The champion
was William Howe, the famous
Joseph’s elder brother. Fenety
says he ‘‘would take up an ordinary walking stick, and play
a good game with a good player,
a substitute for a racquet never
used by any other person.”
Racquets is what is now called
‘“squash.”’

 

* eK K

Recently a Dalhousie professor received a packet of books
from Algeria, addressed simply
‘Dalhousie University, United
States.”’ And yet it reached the
right person. Such is the fame
of Dalhousie.

PRO ARCHIA.

 

 

NOTE.

The dramatic column conducted under the heading ‘“‘Ad Astra”’
will be resumed in our next
issue upon resumption of cooperation on the part of the managers
of the local theatres.

 

 

 

Jan. 16th we are giving a
discount of

20%

off our entire stock including all

TUXEDOS
OVERCOATS
SUITS

Hats, Caps and F urnishings

Shane’s Mens Wear

30 Spring Shop Garden Road

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   

L Sree SDI ae aimee Mae Sy eRe
_|Dalhousie vs. ‘
ft | Rest
little inewhedce | isa ae By B. Lebasi.
ing.’”’ Many times is ;
fact brought to our minds
cularly so in this day of
modernism, modernism
sre all the world follows the
s and example of a few in
ever; ’ phase of life.
es) Si n the last issue of the GazE ett re we find an example of a
_ disorganized, confused and en» croaching form of writing which
is” oth laughable and pitiful and
‘which at the same time portrays to us one of the very
weakest specimens of manhood,
ne. who will ally himself with:
hose of his type, against a
r., Bee iy weaker and in his
own, words a mentally inferior
2 seni. I refer to the so styled
oe piring president of the antifeminist league. Could anything be more repulsive and
revoking to any red blooded
man than this society.
_ It is all very well to suggest
such topics for the intellectual
development of the female mind,
= but what is needed today is
(originality and the ability to
“ae hi for oneself rather than

A great war hentai a ‘large
part of mankind—and Dalhousie
waxes angry over initiations;
millions of unemployed demand
help—and Dalhousie discusses
hotel dances; the League of
Nations totters on its foundations—and Dalhousie debates
the relative merits of “Dream
Girls’; the virtues of age-old
institutions are questioned and
apsailed by powerful forces—
and Dalhousie suggests ‘‘Compulsory Physical Training” ; the
world trembles at the vision of
possible Chaos—and “Egbert”

proposes “Gym Dances’’; civilization is threatened by “‘Communism’™’ on one side and by
“Facism’’ on the other—and
Dalhousie insinuates that athletics are not run fairly;
400,000,000 Chinese writher in
agonies ‘caused by famines, wars,
revolutions, lawlessness, and general anarchy — and Dalhousie
criticises the latest ‘“‘talkies,”’
an unprecedented financial depression reduces the world to
despair and Dalhousie laughs at
the antics of “Observer ; millions starve and freeze in the
streets—and Dalhousie angrily
counts the number of ‘ ‘plucks”;

the spectre of revolution is seen
in every land—and Dalhousie
considers the new books on
bridge; Russia discards the Bible,
—and Dalhousie prepares ‘‘the
Books of Bunce’; mankind demands leaders—and Dalhousie
trains clowns and social butterflies (with a few pedants for
good measure).

the parrot form of Jearning
which is so much in evidence
ss eecday, and displayed in the
-_- writing of this reprobate.
oe _ Egbert would ask this person
to look up the biographies of
apne world's greatest men and
omen, and see how many of
4 the n mothers of these, understood
- dietetics, physiology and psych' ology. He mentions something
about his opinion, I wonder if
ae the ability to form an
~ opinion? For originality plays a
| - part in the formation of
- opinions, not to mention menality.. It is nice of you to
tempt to enlighten the femne minds upon such subjects,
iy rf course it has not occurred to
at they may have taken
"Classes, -and read the
Peer: and reports you

Well done Dalhousie!

and comfort yourself with the
|fact that some day voy rs ee a
Pe pesky domineering little husal nd d'mentally eee the| band, who will tell his wife how
ar ns and ideas” of others,|+. feed-the baby and when its
'| diapers should be changed and

tic th- Is of eighty should
he knowledge together into ere Sith b 6r. eig y

readings and fling them at the
vorld ‘pasing as an educated
donkey Son in spite of your
-egoism ‘and. self praise you will;
oe upon graduating that
your education is just beginning,

-It may seem to many that
since dancing in feminine apparel
that Egbert, has undergone a
change, but he has not, it’s
merely an obnoxious feeling,
caused by the prattle of an undeveloped speciman of his own
species, which has caused him
to take the part of the female

Sincerely yours,

EGBERT.

Don’t Neglect
Personai
Apovearance!

q ¥
= | _ : S
the deal of Quality «

HALIFAX, N. S.

Your Laundry Is
Most Important.
_-' WE OFFER YOU
Personal Attention.
Perfect Work.
Prompt Service.

AT LOW COST

May we serve you?
It is luck to find something

| overnight for the occasion. Our Phone No. is

Early planning, ts far as a | L-2300

pe faiouth akvead, will help us find
_||Favors of Distinction for your] |
é Function.

_ | BIRKs=

‘|| Dance favors must be different
| |/to win approval.

 

het

| Henry Birks & Son Halifax Steam

Laundry

Limited
_ DIAMOND MERCHANTS
ifax, N. S.

 

 

eee LOWER

| Halifax I Ladies Ci College HOOL
Household Science: Teacher's

|| Conservatory of Music ‘aipecar ane
Ht | Music in all Branches. Teacher’s Certificate. Graduation Diploma.
st i Licentiate or Bachelor of Misia, Dalhousie University. 
{ mss EF FLORENCE PBLACE NORD, B.A., MR. HARRY DEAN

_ Director of Conservato r

 

     

ENGLISH JOTTINGS. |

Goodwood does not mean
much to Canaldians, for, as a
whole, we are not a horsey, racing people. I had to come to
England to learn that it is situated on a nobleman’s estate,
covering part of the famous

South Downs. The Duke of
Richmond, the owner, is descended from the beautiful

Louise de Keroualle, who negotiated the secret treaty of Dover,
with Charles II. He is a cripple
from the War. His mansion is
a long, low white building, as
seen in the distance from the
authorized motor. Owing to the
abuse of his hospita:ity, motorists are no longer permitted to
drive past it into the Park, but
they may turn to the left and
view the race-track and _ the
elaborate, permanent grandstands. The course begins uphill, sweeps in a wide curve and
ends just before The Trundle,
the elevation where the Common
Herd congregate to watch the
horses run. From the top of
this high place, there are magnificent views all round~ the hortzon.

Racing at Goodwood lasts a
week, and is the fashionable
event of the racing season. A
force of the Metropolitan Police
comes down from London to
regulate the enormous crowds.
The Duke keeps up the track
and maintains all its appurtenances, and he charges for admission to the grounds and the
various enclosures. His Grace
makes a good thing of it, as he is
surely entitled to do. Goodwood Week means harvest time
for the hotels and Jodging-houses
within a radius of miles. Large
prices are paid for furnished
houses while the races last.

There is also a golf course
on the Goodwood estate. From
one point on the road leading to
the course, I looked down on a
most alluring valley, where happy souls were slicing, and pulling,
and hunting for their balls in

‘the rough, accidents which alloy

the heady raptures of the noble
game. It is a stiff course, with
plenty of hill climbing. In the
far distance stood up the tall
spire of Chichester Cathedral.
It is the central point for a
wide region and is -visible tor
many miles.

I have lived for a week in
the tiny village of Sidlesham
near the English Channel in one
corner of one English county.
I could spend a month and not
exhaust its interest.

It was a sea-port and again
it was not. In the time of the
Armada, while the loyal men
of the district were drilling near
Church Mound, a Spanish ship
was captured in their sight.
My landlord pointed out the
historic place from his back
garden.

Sidlesham was a favorite refuge for smugglers in the olden
days. Many were their encounters with the Excise men and
the Preventive officers. The
smugglers would break into the
farmers’ stables in the night
and take their horses to carry
off the ‘run’ goods to tlie Downs.
But the horses would be returned in the morning and a keg
of brandy would be found in the
stalls. So no questions were
asked.

The names of the _ publichouses suggest the maritime
quality of the place, such as The
Anchor, The Jolly Fisherman,
The Crab and Lobster. They
are not ‘‘free houses’, but are,
managed by the brewing companies. The signs are too artistic, too well painted. The Jolly
Fisherman at the corner sports
two. One shows him rowing
sturdily in his sea-boots; and
the other, looking over his shoulder while engaged with a mug of
beer. The ‘pub’ is the poor
man’s club. It is the only possible meeting place for him. He
does not frequent his ‘pub’ merely to drink, but to sit down, and
chat and smoke, and play innocent games such as darts and
dominoes. Englishmen have
drunk beer for ten centuries

and they understand how to do

|
a

ENGLISH JOTTINGS

By ARCHIBALD MACMECHAN

  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 

oe 4
bem

it. Their beer-is about as deadly as tea,or buttermilk. They
have their clubs in the publichouses with rules like the Penny
Club in ‘““The Spectator.’’ There
is a fine for the man who uses
bad language, or causes a disturbance in The Jolly Fisherman. The Anchor has a Tontine Club.

. Every working man owns a
bicycle. He wheels over incomparable roads from his home
to his work. Double-decke.
busses run in all directions, frequently, from such centres as
Chichester; and these honest
English concerns charge you
only for the distance covered.
Where in Canada could you
travel for a mile in comfort, at
an outlay of three hha pence, or
three cents?

Once Sidlesham was a lively
place, when vessels came up
to the old mill. The sea was
barred out, and the land so
reclaimed bore marvellous crops
of wheat. Cattle fattened on
the meadows without the aid
of oilcake, or shortly ‘‘cake.”
This is made out of groundnuts from Africa and can be
bought now for four pounds
sterling a ton. So a tidal mill
was built to grind the “corn.”
Then a devastating high tide
broke through in a December
storm, drowned sheep in ha
dreds and laid all the rich ae
and meadow land under water.
The gap was never repaired,
so the mill was useless. After
the War, when building materials were scarce and dear, it was
pulled down and the _ bricks
used elsewhere.

Near by is a yellow house
which dates from 1660. It has
always been inbabitated by the
same family. The last repre
sentative is old and blind and|.

childless. When he dies, the
family will be extinct. He was
the inventor of the wooden
movable-top beehive, in place
of the old ‘skep’; and is also the

author of several works on bee-|

keeping. His house is said to
be full of jack-boots and threecornered hats.

The people are tall and thin,
hereabouts, with black eyes and
hair. They have the name of
being “independent,” for they
are all yeoman farmers, and
have never been brought under
the discipline of squires on estates. The district is called
“*Manhood.”’

They build walls, and barns,
and dwelling houses and churches out of water-rounded flints
laid evenly in thick mortar:
between the courses sma!l broken flints are stuck in the mortar.
The flints cost nothing but carting from the sea-shore. Now
the law forbids the removal of
any such material from the coast.

Every house in the village has
its flower garden, with hedges
and shrubbery between the house
and the road; for the English
love privacy. The roofs are of
red tiles, weathered and mossgrown. The village is eminently paintable, a happy huntingground for artists. In this moist
climate gardens do not need
constant watering, and the soil
is rich. Any one who wants a
garden in America must spend
much time with the hose-nozzle
in his hand. That makes a
great difference. But it does
not account for the vast superiority of English gardens in
locks, variety, number over those
of all other nations. There is
a zeal in the labor necessary to
produce such beauty-spots in
such profusion everywhere.
That specially English flower,
the red rose, seems to be the
favorite. Houses are smothered
in festoons of Ramblers, which
have flourished rankly in this
favorable season. And these
gardens are not made to be
seen by the passer-by, American
fashion. They are made for the
private pleasure of the gardener
and his friends. Whenever, possible, they are made behind the
house, as well as in front, and
often the back-garden is the
more entrancing.

Archibald MacMechan.

Page Three’

 

 

Blended
Right!

A thorough knowledge of blending

is an absolute essential to a delicately
flavoured, fragrant cigarette such as
Winchester. .

This knowledge comes only after long
years of experience in handling choice
Virginia, Burley and Turkish tobaccos
and the facilities which are available
to Canada’s largest manufacturer of
cigarettes ensure a blend which is
perfection itself,

 

ar Y

Winchester

CIGARETTES

Blended Right!

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited.

 

 

 

     
 
    

Get Your
Moneys Worth!

The very latest in cooking
devices are used here, giving you

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

higher food values in every dish.

THE
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

 

 

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

 

 

 

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each,

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.
Write or call for Calendar or advice.
F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 

 

It’s a long time from Christmas until college
closes...and many students find Long Distance a
necessary requisite to keep in touch with affairs
at home, as well as with relatives and friends.

Unquestionably, Long Distance is the most
personal way to communicate with them....it is
most appreciated too...It saves time and is wonderfully economical.

Just call the Long Distance operator or con
sult a telephone directory for the Long Distance

‘ charges to your home.....and don’t forget night

charges...the rates are greatly
8.30 p. m.

reduced after

 

Get The Long Distance Habit!

| MARITIME TELEGRAPH &
TELEPHONE COMPANY LIMITED

——— ao —= ee

wt

 

 
 

 

 

4

ere ‘And There In Sport |D

Students intending to take
their ‘‘B’’ Physical Training certificate are requested to start
Thursday—Baseball, Gym. 7.30.|immediately so as to complete

{ Interclass Hockey,| their required 45 hours.
Forum, 5-7. oo
- Boxing and Wrest-} The girls are taking up fencling, Lower gym,|ing and any girl interested is
7.30 asked to get in touch with Mr.
Friday—Boxing and Wrestling] Stirling at once.
min Lower gym,
Lower gym, 4-6.

 

. . j
. a
* . i. 7 5
eS f
i 7
’

Sport for the Week.

The 1983 edition of the Dalhousie basketball team pried the
lid from this year’s kettle with
a victory over the ¥. M. C. A.
in an exhibition practice game
at the Dal gym. With only

The newest craze to hit town,

 

Intercoll. Hockey,}|and college, is Ping Pong. The|three lettermen from last year’s

_ Forum. table in the gym, although a|team in action the team neverSaturday—Badminton, mixed poor one, is being used con- theless flashed a short passing
doubles, Gym., tinually and the Ping Pong en-| game that wore down the Op
2.00 on. thusiasts in town have started posing Y squad and allowed

Gymnastics, Stage'|a three team league with the| Dal to walk away with the game

2.30. Y. M. C. A., Waeg., and Dal|in the closing minutes. The su
Basketball, Y. M. C.| after the title. perior cendition of the Dal

A., opening games oa players was really the deciding

in Halifax City When are the Council going|factor as both teams showed

decidedly early season form.
The game opened with ‘“‘Don”’
Bauld, former Haiifax Academy
star and a letterman from last
vear's team at right forward;
Doug Crease, former Acadia intermediate player, at left for._ |ward; Sam Fairstein, a star of
A prominent hockey coach in| the team for the last three years
Tuesday—Boxing and wrestling, Halifax after watching the Tigers at centre; Milt Musgrave, a
Lower Gym, 4-6.| work out remarked: “Their only| former Halifax Academy boy
Wednesday—Boxing and Wrest-| hope is to whittle the squad and ay ane defense: and Charlie

League. to have skating periods at the
Monday—Boxing and Wrestling,}forum? With an Intercollegiate
Lower Gym, 4-6.|Hockey Team and a renewed
Track and field prac-|interest in hockey why not
tice, Gym, 7.30. |boost the interest still higher
Badminton, Dal vs.| with a couple of skating periods.
Military, McCur- SA eae
dy Cup, at Dal
Gym, 7.30.

- ~ > rE 7 : . B<
ling, 4-6. concenirate On a team. (A word | Anderson, another star of former
' The b : ee tas to the wise is sufficient). years at the other defense. The
ftir = voys . Ceanis” BWANE eee Mh oak “Yv"" opened the scoring when

action this week at the Y. How
about some support, the Y have
dances after each game, so if
you haven’t got enough energy
to support your team without
inducements, maybe the com
Smith at center dropped a long

Tiger Mackasey, the future}one in from the side. Dal was
manager of Dal varsity teams. plainly too anxious, both Crease
Tiger, the manager of Arts and}and Bauld missing easy set ups
Science hockey team has been|in front of the basket, but it was
oe aes a - |canvassing the entire Arts’facul-|apparent as time went on that
Pen ete? Bey a asive ty to husk tic ck players, watch the steadying influence of Ander
| | Arts go you other teams. To]son and Fairstein would hold
assist his team Tiger has collect-|the team together and the short
ed $12 (twelve dollars) with a|passing game should give Dal
depression on, where did Tiger}a big advantage over the inget the money? 1’d suggest that|dividual dribbling efforts of the

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST

 

be Y.M.C.A. Bldg. the Council appoint Tiger man- “Y team. Musgrave jumping
ee a ager of all Dal teams, if he can | center and dropping back to
fey af eae aes men collect that much in a depression | guard, easily outjumped the Y
Pe ans what would he get in a boom. |centers and Dal controlled the
3 ball from the tip off very easily.

Bould sank two pretty shots and
Fairstein and Musgrave both
dropped one in while the Y
were accounting for two baskets.

Eee

i a At the end of the first ten minhar, utes Coach Ells yanked everyae body but. Anderson and sent in

a Pony combination made up
of Turner O’Brien, Leo Green, a
first year ‘‘dent.’’ from the States,
at center and Mandelstan a former Bates college star at guard.
Of this combination Mandelstan
was easily the best, but he attempted so much individual dribbling that he broke up the Dal
————— | passing game and slowed up
the Dal team about 50 per cent.
Unless Mandelstan can overcome this one bad fault it looks
extremely doubtful that Coach
Ells will be able to use him extensively this year. O Brien,
Stoddard and Green were pressing and consequently tailed to
score, but they checked back
nicely gave the guards good
support and held the Y to one
lone basket, The half ended

| Annual Summer Tours

Detailed Circular on Request

Miss Lillian Watson,
411 Power Bldg.
WINNIPEG

‘Miss. Rhoda Howe,
224 Bloor St. West
TORONTO

Mils. L. Alvarez,
70 Sun LifejBldg.
MONTREAL

 

 

PROVINCE, OF;,NOVA SCOTIA

Department of Education

The administration of Education is centralized at the Education Office,
Cheapside, Halifax, N. S. |

INSPECTION

The province is divided into 14 inspectorates. The bi-lingual districts

of Clare and Argyle are in charge of a bi-lingual inspector, as are also those

i of Richmond and Inverness South. There are an Inspector of High School's

: a Director of Rural Education Extension with a staff of helping teachers and
rt an Inspector of Mechanic and Domestic Science.

NORMAL COLLEGE

The Provincial Normal College is situated at Truro, the geographical
centre of the province. About 350 teachers-in-training attend this institution each year. The three provincial universities offer courses in Education,
ot qualifying for a license, after graduation with degree.

~

3 a. eye eae LS
E a 7

4

e CENTRAL PROFESSIONAL LIBRARY MARYS IS PLAYING AN
= Fs : At the Education Office is a library of professional books for the use of GAME ON FRIDAY.
Bs or inspectors and teachers. These books cover all phases of education and are

extensively used by the teaching profession of the Province.

SUMMER SCHOOL

August at Halifax and offers a wide choice of professional and cultural
courses for teachers, students of education and others. The Faculty is
composed of university professors and other outstanding instructors.

SCHOOL BOOK BUREAU

7 p. m.

A central bureau for the distribution of the prescribed school texts is P
maintained at the Education Office. 8 p. m.
RECENT PROGRESS IN EDUCATION 9 p. m.

. Adequate pensions on retirement for teachers, inspectors and Normal
College professors. This should interest University students.

Increased Government Grants to teachers.

Increased Grants to weak sections.
Doc Byrnes “Egbert” wishes to

announce that he wants to challenge Prof. Mercer, Vic Oland
or anyone else toa game. When
he gets good enough to beat
Capt. Frank Zinck perhaps it
will be considered.

Conveyance of pupils in sparsely settled districts has been encouraged.
Increased expenditure for rural education extension.

Correspondence courses are now provided for teachers in practice and
also for pupils in remote and unorganized territory, both free of cost,

 

  

 

al Ouintette Defeat Y. M. C. A.
In Exhibition Game

Strong Finish Gives Tigers Well Earned Victory !
3 Over Old Rivals

 

General Admission 25c.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
 
  

i

 

 

with the score 11 to 9in favor
of Dal.

The second half was much
better from a Dal viewpoint
the pony combination of O’Brien
Stoddard and Green teaming up
very well on a couple of plays
with O’Brien on the scoring
end. Stoddard dropped in three
foul shots to make théir contribution to the score seven, just

before Coach Ells sent in the
first string combination. This
first string outfit with Bauld

on the scoring end, split the Y
defense wide open and for last
ten minutes of the game ran
wild. The Y on the other hand
failed to break through the Dal
defense and was forced to rely
on long shots, The game ended
33 to 21 in Dal s favor.

The Y team looked fast and
individually appeared stronger
than Dal. However, their first
appearance on a large floor after
playing on the small Y floor was
too great a handicap and it was
apparent that they lost time and!
time again and it was very evident that they were tiring rapidly toward the end of the game.
The Y too did not get as many
breaks from the referee as they
might have, but didn’t complain
in the slightest and the Dal
players appreciated that fact.
Such sportsmanship brings good
feeling between teams and the
next two games between the
two teams should be good. Dal
will have to travel to lick a team
that has such stars as Cyril
Smith, Beazley, Hill, Robinson
and others.

strong. team this year. 1

forward combination of Bauld,
Crease and Fairstein is fast and
tricky and should be able to split
most any defense that they will
meet this year. Crease needs
practice shooting and might well
learn to check back a little more,
having a tendency to loaf down
the floor. Fairstein and Bauld
teamed up very well with Crease
whose fast floor work provided
many of the scoring possibilities
for Bauld, who, by the wal,
walked away with the scoring
honors, with 15 of the 38 points
to his credit. The second string
line needs Jots and lots of practice but they have great possibilities, all fast and full of fight
The guards must learn to get
the ball up the floor faster,
Musgrave takes too long to turn
around and Mandelstan dribbles
too much. Outside of these few
common early season faults the

team looked very good and we
sure hope it goes a long.

—$—$——$< $< —<__—

NOTICE

THE INTERCOLLEGIATE HOCKEY GAME
SCHEDULED FOR FRIDAY NIGHT WILL BE
PLAYED ‘TO-NIGHT WEDNESDAY, AS SAINT °

INTERMEDIATE

 

 

| The Nova Scotia Summer School is held annually during July and ome S: A S na a T S A L L o™s
Y.M.C.A. Saturday, January 21st.
Y. M. C. A. vs.) WANDERERS, Inter.

ST. JOHN’S vs. KINGS, Inter.
N. S. T. COLLEGE vs. Y. M. C. A. Senior

 

 

Reserved 35c.

 

 

 

NICKERSON & CREASE
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

AMPUS
OMMENT

It was brought to the Observer’s attention that the Economics 3 class should receive some
recognition for their generous
donation of a dollar apiece to be
used in the furthering of an
economic library. This, indeed,
shows more than anything else
that students of economics did
Also it

right in their work.

has been brought to my attention that some of the above
class would like a statement
showing the actual disbursements.

Landlady to Bill Simpson:
“Go and never darken my bathtub again.”

The other night Observer took
a walk over past the Gym.
He heard a noise that sounded
like a Dent student practising
but it was only the C. O. T. C.
bugler.

Professor Bennett is planning
to give up his position as head
of the English Department to
open a filling station. Best of
Luck, Professor.

The depression is certainly
eginning to strike the college.
The library refuses to give students any ink. The other day
a poor student while attempting
to finish a theme was caught
short and when he went to the
desk for a refill he was turned

down flat. If this happens again there might be trouble.

 

Dalhousie should have a fairly HALIFAX TAXI CO.

At your
Service

B.7376

 

 

 

FROM THE

WINNERS FRoMt

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

   

 

 

——

 

Carl: I am going to be a
surgeon.

Eric: Not for me, too much
inside work.

Doris: What will we do?

Jimmy: Let’s think.

Doris: Aw, no, let’s do something you can do.

Baldy Armstrong: My girl’s
the kind that people look up to.

Dan Harvey: Mine is the kind
that people look round at.

Krank Newman was boasting
about his great memory. You
know there are only three things
[ can’t remember. I can't remember names and I can't remember faces and—and I forget
what the third thing is.

Dr. Max MacOdrum (’28) is
attending the Presbyterian College, Montreal. this winter. His
Principal studies are Hebrew
and Greek; but he is giving

much attention to Phonetics.

 

WALLACE BROS.

January Shoe

Clearance
MEN’S
Oxfords in black andlbrown
calf. Clearance Prices

$4.95 $5.95

Men’s Hockey Boots

All Sizes $2.95

To Clear

WOMEN’S
Pump straps and tie ends
of high grade lines to

“x” $4.95 $5.95

at

Evening Slippers, Gold and
Silver Braided, ;To Clear at

$4.95
WALLACE SHOES

BROS.

GREEN LANTERN BLDG.
409 Barrington St.

CASINO

Thursday to Saturday
January 19-20-21

“Central Park’’

—with—
JOAN BLONDELL

WALLACE FORD, GUY KIBBEE

       
       
     
       
   
     
   
   
   
    

 

    
   
     

 

  
 
  
  
  
 

 

 

 

Monday to Wednesday
January 23- 24-25

GARRICK |iI'New Movals for Old’

Wednesday and Thursday

“The Most Dangerous

Game’’

With JOEL McCREA and
FAY WRAY

Friday and Saturday

“I Like Your Nerve”

DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, Jr.

Monday and Tuesday
NORMA SHEARER

‘Smilin’ Theolgh o

 

Evenings. 20 and 30c., Mat. 25c.

 

JOHN TOBIN & Co,

LIMITED

 

Wholesale Grocers

Tea Merchants

 

HALIFAX, CANADA

  

—with—
LEWIS STONE,
ROBERT YOUNG
MARGARET PERRY

  
 
  

 

 

 

 

see

 

A Personal

House

 

Worsteds...Saxonies..
Tweeds....every cloth
the finest of its kind..
pure new wool....all
the pick of British
looms.

 

Individual Clothes

and

Individual Service

ROBT. STANFORD

LIMITED
a 158 Hollis St. Halifax, N.S.

 

 
