nie eee

., en , | + if aa
P ie 7k Le Ser . y a all
rE ee 5 spas: ve
ie na Mie eel 4 i
Pe Raa ce ' fe hoa eae
7 A P ‘ : :

The Balhousie Gazette

FOUNDED 1869
veliead WEEKLY oe *
— ‘. 6 MRE as

ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
“H. E. READ, 8,A.

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

D. R, Webster, BA.

my Care Murray Vincent F. Clifford

--. FACULTY EDITORS

' APN oe A. B. Morton

W. S. Gilchrist
A. Johansen

P. T, Hickey

_ Migs E, I. Macneill
R. F. Ross

Miss Juanita O'Connor, B. Comm

°¥ Oo U N D mo D 1869
HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY: 16, 1924

léast. a joke, once a year anyway. Let us all
work to gether and make the Gazette a live
paper worthy of our university.

‘We are publishing the regulations for the
Babson essay prize in WHeonomics in. this
number of the Gazette. This prize competition is large, including all universities of the
United States and Canada. | Bach winner will
bring international recognition and honor to
both himself and his Alma Mater.
is well represented in athletie - competition.
Here is an excellent opportunity to support

her. in, the academic field.

The Christmas Supp lement of the Toronto
Varsity is worth of the greatest praise

: : : dicaea or bt bree ponpreinnnes on ge

ibition of the Hart House Camera
d Sor Ss seek sa ecole a

“| reflects ereditably on the skill and enterprise

and ‘International Law at.

_ ~ -« - 7 « Vv.
» ' Lo 4 , 7
sh aA Le . *
; > ; ;
‘ 
DASA OF Mefilis

It has been officially, announced that Professor
Ira Allen MeKay, a Dalhousie. Breda nie of distinetion, is to be the new Acting Dean o the Faculty
of Arts.at MeGil University, —

Dr, MacKay has been 2990. ie ao

920, an

his new Care will necessitate :his ae from
| Fa ‘Daw to the Faculty of Arts. |

| MacKay was born in Pictou, ahr

e

came an -uniler
RECENT VISITORS OF NOTE
Appreciate Dalhousie’s Progress

Dalhousie has been fortunate in attracting
not only the passing interest but the keen
appreciation. of a number of visitors during
the past year. The Visitors Book in the
Library contains the names of the Prince of
Wales, the Governor General of Canada,
Baron Byng, and a number of others. Among

Dalhousie- recent visitors to the University have been

Hon. W. Li, MacKenzie King, Prime Minister
of Canada, and Mr. E. W. Beatty, President
of Canada’s gigantic corporation the Canadian Pacific Railway.
visited. Studley late in the afternoon of Noyember 30th, last, the day of his arrival in

Halifax fresh from the Imperial Conference. Bs:

He was shown through the Library Buildi

The Prime Minister

the Arts Building, and Shirreff Hall, To

President MacKenzie he expressed his
surprise at what had been accomplished
since his last visit when no buildings had been.

completely erected at Studley and frankly~ i
Said that the results so far attained were ria ;

of amazing. The Prime Mini
devoted a portion of his address at the Casino.
to. the University and its growth and in a
letter to a member of the Board on his return:
to Ottawa, expressed his appreciation of the

opportunity of visiting the material a ‘ 3

housie and his regret that the time at his:
disposal had been go brief.

Mr. E. W. Beatty visited the University.
on December 7th, ‘As Chancellor of M
and also of Queens Universities he looked —
with critical eye on what he saw at Studldy..
He. too, expressed his, appreciation of all that:
had been accomplished and assured esi
dent ‘MacKenzie that he greatly admired the: 2

old..world effeet ofthe ge at St
whieh made them look as if

transplanted to this side of
’ Shirreff

Sha eee

i,
ee 4

ye

7. [,?
eo 14

 
THE INDIANAPOLIS CONVENTION.

 

The Ninth Quadrennial Convention of the
Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign
Missions met during the Christmas vacation
from Dec. 28, to Jan. 1, in the Cadle Tabernacle, Indianapolis. Students gathered there
from every state in the Union and from
nearly all the provinees of Canada, the number registered being approximately 4800.
Leaders, including professors, S. C. A.
secretaries and ministers, brought the number of registered degelates to over 5500, and
the building which had seating aecommodation for perhaps 7500 was generally packed.

On account of the Canadian National
Conference in Toronto being held only a year
ago, the degelation from Canada was much
smaller than at the last S. V. M. Convention
held in Des Moines. It numbered about
170,13 of whom were from the Maritimes,
Mount Allison, Acadia, and Prince of Wales
being each represented by a boy and a girl, U.
N. B. by three girls, and Dalhousie by Irene
Allen, Donald Webster, Sidney Gilchrist, and
Clifford Grant. On arrival there, however, Dal’s number was increased to 15 by the
addition of Larry MacKenzie, who was
Canadian representative on the Committee in
charge of Convention arrangements and went
up from Harvard, and Younghill Kang who
had two years at Dalhousie and is now attending Boston University. Besides these we had
the pleasure one evening of a visit from
Professor Hepburn, Librarian of Purdue
University, Lafayette, a graduate of Dal
in Arts and probably the only Dal. graduate
in the state of Indiana.

All of the Canadian delegation from
Ontario east travelledtogether from Toronto
_yia Detroit to Indianapolis by special train,
and the whole delegation was quartered at the
Severin Hotel. At most of the meetings the

delegations sat by states and the Canadians ,
were allotted a good position near the plat-
form.

The Ninth Convention was different from
all preceding it in ways suggested by the
Toronto Conference last’year, the new depart
ures being the devoting of a day to the treat“ment of the Industrial, International, and
Interracial problems for student discussion,
the Conference being divided into forty-nine

different groups for this purpose. To continue the comparison with the Toronto

| Conference, some of the speakers were the

 

a "
Bly =~ =
aed,

ee)
Ps)
se. “isT
a y
/ ua
a
iy
a

‘same, as Hon. Newton Rowell, Prof. Aggrey

of West Africa, Dr, Tsu of China, and Dr.

John R. Mott the president of the World’s
‘Student Christion Federation. The ‘‘Dr.

_ Herbert Gray’? of Indianapolis, giving a series

of addresses on religious topics, was another
Old Countryman, Dr. Edward Weets of

“4 "iy eines |
_ Among the other tpeskers were Studdert

THE Pate ny nine no ae a aya ee ee vy nate rey UT Ae SL aD ati 1) ne
: % Ui + . ; Ute. Oe ro eh ee

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

WHO?

 

He was a junior, a junior,
She was a sophomorette;
He was shy, sure I don’t know why,
And the two had never met.
Over the length of the walk—looks are words,
faces talk—
Two eyes met two, and his could see
A siniply unguessable
Surely permissible
Sweetly darn kissable
Smile.

He was a junior, a junior,
She was a sophomorette;
He was shy—who ever knew why?—
They two had never met.
In the dark of the Shirreff Hall pines, she stumbled on something—on vines?—
He helped her; and when they had passed they had
Stilly. ‘and hushingly,
Gladly unrushingly
Sweetly unblushingly
Kissed.
That was a month ago and more,
And we two have never met;
For I was the junior, the junior,—
But who was the sophomorette?

-—

 

Negro Student Wins Poetry Prize.

 

Countee P. Cullen, a negro at New York University, is the winner of the second prize in_ the
Witter Bynner undergraduate poetry contest, the
Poetry Society of America announced recently.
The contest was held under the society’s auspices.
To Maurice Lesemann of the University of Chicago
went the first prize for his poem, “In the Range
Country.”

Cullen’s poem, second out of 700 submitted by
the representatives of sixty-three colleges and universities, is “The Ballad of the Brown Girl,” a tale
of the tragedy of the lover who foresook the “lily
maid” for the “dark brown girl” with all her gold.
He concludes: q

Oh! lovers, never barter Jove
For gold or fertile lands.
For love is meat and love is drink,
And love heeds love’s commands.

And love is shelter from the rain
And scowling, stormy skies:
Who casts off love must break his heart,
And rue it ’till he dies.

een etenenncerae sae anon

have in our midst at the present time.
Sesions were held almost continuously
every day from 9 A. M. to 12.30 P. M., from
2.30 to 4.30, and from 8 to 10, and what with
delegation meetings, dinners with other del
egations at which more speeches were listened

to, and other meetings called for further
discussion of certain. problems, as for
example, ‘‘War’’, the time of the delegates
was kept fully .oeeupied and their minds
working at full capacity. 7

It was in every way a most interesting,
instructive, and inspiring experience to be
there, to see, hear, and talk with Christian
leaders and students of many different
nations and the various states and provinces.
Our only cause for regret was Miss Aller’s
taking ill with diptheria and having to be left

behind in hospital. —

Your delegutes wiii ie please to give
some of their impressions on various aspects —
of the COE. in OT nm, * ae

 

  
 

THE DANCE QUESTION

Your Students’ Council has, for some time,

been engaged in the readjustment of certain
rules governing dances at our University.
Chief among our problems has been the one
—where shall dances be held? Under our

present rule there is no limitation to any
particular place, dances may be held in the
city, subject to the approval of the Students’
Council. When this rule was passed there
was no opportunity of holding large dances
on the University premises for the gymnasium at Studley had not been erected.
Since the gymnasium has been completed and
its large floor space is available for dancing
there has been a strong fecling that all dances
should be held in the gymnasium and that a
rule should be passed preventing large dances
from being held elsewhere than on University
premises.

The Senate feels quite strongly in this
matter and recently submitted this rule to the
Council for approval ‘‘that the University
name shall not be used in connection with any
dance held elsewhere than on the University
premises,’’ The interpretation of the rule is
that it shall govern the eight large dances
that are usually held during the term, but
shall not include class functions involving
dancing.

Since this is a rule that will affect the
students very directly and since it is one that
will be permanent in nature your Council,
without expressing approval or disapproval
of the rule, decided that it Would be unwise to
pass or neglect it without a direct
expression of the wishes of the student body.
It was our intention to take a referendum at
the time of the regular Council elections in
the spring. The recent decision of several
societies to hold dances in the Auditorium
has made it necessary for us to obtain at once
an expression of the wishes of the students.
For this purpose the Council has decided to
take a referendum vote on January 23rd.
Ballots. will be printed and voting carried on
in the manner of the general Council election.

The Council desires that the students
should be acquainted with the arguments for
and against the rule, but we feel that any
campaign or publicity carried on in order to
defeat or have the measure passed ‘would
prevent the Council from. obtaining a’ true

,expression of the opinion of the students.
The members of the Students’ Council have
therefore agreed to take no active part in the

preparation for this referendum, but have

asked me as President of the Council to meet |

ede oor bee ee
SH OE tially |
# for and a

SS :
( : ‘ '
i‘ ni £ + -F
‘Wa F===a8 95" w
me bh a
i " @oT ,
5 ue Mi “it
ae yet rs “ ; i
i . ‘ f
a
" i
aa "

) er Pavenballn pt

Pa in" ir. bl gS =F rg Bee | pe
= . pie bs Gar © a fy = A Thor = r i # i"
= 4 Fi ae} ' ft A } Jom Tf ff ‘% — i ; : a a
A eo ee . Pie Ae = “
| es 4 ’ 3 '

a

  

CHAMPION MEDS WANT DEBATERS

Congratulations to Stokely Sutherland and
Cameron Guild, both of Medicine ’25, on
having secured internships in the Civie
Tuberculosus Hospital and Camp Hill
Hospital respectively.

Chesley Oake of Medicine .’27 spent the
Christmas Holidays acting medical. officer on
the French cable ship ‘‘Edward Jefemac.’’

It is expected that the first debate of the
Interfaculty series will take place shortly the
contestants being Medicine and Dentistry.
Medicine holds the cup and there is no reason
why the Med orators should not retain it.
Don’t hide your light under a bushel. If you
ean speak in public, if you think you can or
even if you think you can’t, let Bob MacLeod
or R. E. Bennett have your name.

—W. 8. G.

 

A Peaceful Meeting.

The Seniors met in room 4, on Tuesday,
Jan. 8, for their first class meeting after the
Christmas Vacation. The meeting was only
fairly well attended, the business was dispatched quickly and with excellent order—
something new for Class ’24.

A class drive was arranged, and other more
serious questions discussed, such as the graduation picture and Class Day exercises. Committees were appointed to look after these
matters, and it will probably be necessary to
hold another meeting very shortly to hear the
various reports and to make final dicisions.
It will be to the interest of every member
of the graduating class to attend.

NEW BRUNSWICK SOCIETY BANQUET.

 

One of the jolliest events of the year was held
at the Green Lantern when the New Brunswick
students held a banquet and dance. Prof. and
Mrs. MacNeill were the chaperons of the evening.

President Swan acted as toastmaster, and called
upon. Prof. MacNeill who replied to the toast to
Dalhousie. Prof. MacNeill gave reminiscenses of
college days. He also’ referred to fellow students
who had been at Dalhousie with him, and who
came from New Brunswick, among those being
Hon. A. B. Copp, R. B. Bennett, Sir James Dunn,
Lord Beaverbrook and Rev. A. F. Robb now in
Korea.

Jarvis McCurdy in a witty speech replied to the
toast to New ae ts is ea

The toast to the es was replie
McKenna, and Roe certainly replied—in his “‘judicial” way. Roe always can create good times.

After dinner was over, dancing was indulged in
until 11 P, M. A four ee orchestra consisting
of Messrs. Harrison, ald, Thompson and
Thurrott rendered excellent music. ae

Please tare your Gazette contributions in the
eae ate Sn ote bo Tanne

| The College Girl

 

  
  

 

Ce ts

*
- a
*<

74
+
‘ 4
¥ . I .
yy . - /
ae = " +! ‘,
t : * : 7 ' $ : in vm
bg ab Si eh... iy ‘ * ’ d
t aot “el F ib
‘ iy ge AR ig Elias
5 2 .
- = imi¢v

_ THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

HON. MR. JUSTICE RUSSELL.

 

Eminent jurist, writer, and staunch Dalhousian
who celebrated the 75th anniversary of his birth on
January 10.

 

At the meeting of Rusa 10th in “Room
29, it was decided to hold the Dental Dance in
the Auditorium on Monday night, January

21st. Under the able direction of ‘‘Tooter’’
Somers the dance is bound to be a success
and several innovations are to be introduced
that will make this affair one that no one in
search of a good time can afford to miss.
Associated with ‘‘Tooter’’ on the dance
committee are Messrs. Turnbull, Dawson,
Eaton and Tupper.
Arrangements were also made to have a

series of hockey practises in order to get the 
Dental sextette of puck chasers in shape for
the interfaculty series.

Vie Turnbull has charge of the Dental
team ; so watch the bulletin boards for further
arrangements, and turn out for practise.
_ Even if you do not make the team you can
help your faculty by furnishing the opposition at the various workouts.

Dr. J. H. Lawley, Glace
welcome visitors to his old
Forrest Building last week.

Don’t forget the Dental
January 21st.

Bay, was a
haunts in the

Dance in on

; anne Sox RAY. ”

 
 

a rt ge

‘THE CITY PRINT |

| PRINTING OF EVERY
ue DESCRIPTION

We Sepecialize in
DANCE PROGRANIMES

i :
‘ ws J Fr ,
‘ 5 » ~ ? ~~ * '
a 537 Te > : fey Pe ’
Ph) «2 ‘ i;

oo 3°” '
g*s .
a Oe” Se - & i
, P| F
Co ha) ’

SOPHOMORES’. MERRY PARTY.

On the evening of Monday, January 7,.
the merry Sophomores gathered at the
Forrest building at 7.30, and then proceeded:
to the Majestic, where they saw Tommy.
Martell in ‘‘The Gay Young Bride.’ They
conducted themselves in a properly dignified
fashion, suited to their rank, and indicated
to the rest of the audience who they were by
a few yells,

After the show, the party held a progressive walk up Spring Garden Road, down
the “‘Avenue,’’ right through the very
portals of Shirreff Hall! Here, a delicious
repast was awaiting them, and an hour was
spent in dancing to music supplied by
Blanchard Thompson, Bingo Harrison, and
Doug. Macdonald.

The party was chaperoned by Professor
and Mrs. Murray Maeneill, and was declared
by all a great success.

—COoMET.

 

Ask Davy Colquhoun about the Law Dance.
He'll tell you.

 

SHE WORKS WHILE ON LEAVE

Miss Margaret Wrong who visited Dalhousie
last year is taking ten months’ formal leave from
her work as one of the S. C. M. Federation travelling secretaries. Her leave began on October Ist.
She attended a meeting of relief officers in Vienna,
October Ist and 2nd, spent a week or two in
Geneva and London clearing up work witlr
Mademoiselle Bidgrain and Miss Rouse, did a little
tour in the North of England for the British
Student Movement, started on November Ist for
a month’s tour on behalf of European Student
Relief in Germany and Scandinavia, and will give
two months’ work to the Foyer International in
Paris.

Miss Wrong is a daughter of Prof. Geo. M.
Wrong, Toronto, and is the only Canadian
secretary on the staff of the World’s Student

Christian Federation.
SOLILOQUY ON BEING PLUCKED

(After receiving the results of the Christmas
examinations. )
(With apologies to Billie Shakespeare)

To go, or not to go, that is the question:—
Whether ‘tis nobler to remain and suffer ©
The retribution of unseeming conduct;
Or bid adieu to the scene of our troubles
And by departing end them!
No more; and by leaving, to say we end
The heartache and the five unnatural shocks
That we are heir to,—’tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wished. To stay;—to go;
To go! yet where to go?—Ay, there’s the rubAnd now demurring on the course that we,
Poor victims of our own free will should take
We find that powers above all human men

“Have left no choice‘ ie Senate hath decreed”

And so whether ve will! it, aye or no,
The way is clear we have recourse—t» fo.
“A Work of Art.”

 

lo TS) ae
ea ae

. £Neg
Sesleg is Believing
-_ To appreciate my values in Sele 4
and Overcoats, you must come up and

er

 

   

To “stay,—to go,—

 

     
 

 

 

Was a Nova Scotian. All Canadians of Rae
aintain that. Webster, one of his most noted

ee

 

7 ee Ja Sena ~*~ ix zs ~ * * sx7 Fid
SE RR Re Bre pwr FT eee pe ee ee
, “ ve ake s ‘FL Aa. cme ye
” ad

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE —

- “What You Will.”

 

The editor wants prose, therefore we take
to prose. Not that we have anything to prose
about. That’s the unfortunate thing about
prose—one must have something to say. One
ean write a sonnet ‘‘To Sylvia’s Eyebrows,’’
even if she hasn’t any worth mentioning;
one can compose an epic poem on Joan of
Are or Noah’s Ark for that matter; one can
rhyme in iambie pentameters about the suceulent banana or indeed about nothing at
all. Yes, one can do that easily, but one gets
no thanks. As W. E. Henley says :—

‘‘Unhappy poets of a sunken prime

You to reviewers are as ball to bat,

They shadow you with Homer, knock you

flat

With Shakespeare.”’

We are unhappy poets: all our efforts are
bowled out by marble-hearted critics, and
editors wielding ‘‘bludgeons brainingly sublime.’’ We must then take to prose, and to
write a prose article (and the editor wants
prose articles) one requires a solid subject,
solid as Livingstone. For such a subject,
solemn and weighty, we take the momentous
question: ‘‘Was Shakespeare educated at
Dalhousie ?’’

Some readers answer decisively in the negative. They even produce two ponderous, and
to them irrefutable, arguments to support
their grumpy denial. They say such a statement was never made before. To this we
reply that all great facts have at one time
been stated for the first time. Who would
deny the Law of Gravitation though it is not
stated in the Book of Genesis; who, that the
noise of a turbo-generator is due to the rapid
beatihg of the air by the rotor, simply beeause the Ancient Britons preferred easy
paddling in coracles to noisy speeding in
motor-boats.

was born at Stratford, he must have been
educated there. But none of his contempor
aries mention his birth, there are no docu
ment to give silent evidence, there does not

- seem to be any proof that he was born within

the sound of the Avon, or indeed that he was
born at all. Baconians assert that he, ‘‘Our
Will,’ did not write the plays of Shakespeare; others insist that they were written by
his wife, or by another man of the same
name. An ultra-modern eritie tried recently

i . to prove that they were written by Alfred.
” Noyes and Henry Newbolt in a previous in
carnation. We cannot answer these state_» tents but at least we know that Shakespeare

Secondly, our opponents aver *
- that sinee, as is commonly said, Shakespeare

 

Greek’’; these words reveal him: as one of us.
Do we not, most of us, go down from Dalhousie with less Latin and no Greek? Perhaps some of the members of English IT,
pedantically inclined, will fussily expostulate
that our assertion contains a chronological
inexactitude regarding the date of Shakespeare’s birth or of the founding of Dalhousie.
We would humbly reply that Shakespeare
himself would be the first to exonerate us of
such a fault; he did not worry about such
minor details as chronological exactness, so
why should we? He himself claims his connection with our Alma Mater. It is true he
does not mention Dalhowsie or even Halifax
by name. Doubtless,

‘‘He knew poet never credit gain’d

By writing truths, but things, like truths,

well-feign ’d.”’

But read your Shakespeare with the idea
hovering about you that he was a Dalhousian,
and see if you do not find in him a very brother and kindred spirit. A line culled here

and there from his genius must suffice—his

plays are full of them—to illustrate-and illumine that idea; broad hints and ‘‘wellfeigned feignings’’ that he was one of us, and
worked and played and suffered as we do.

The North West Arm :—
‘‘This other Eden, demi-paradise. ’’
‘Light boats sail swift.’’
Halifax weather :—
‘‘After summer evermore succeeds
Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping
eold.’”’
‘‘He that stands upon a slippery place |
Makes nice of no vile hold to stay him up.’’

Freshmen—Initiation :—
‘‘How high a pitch his resolution soars.’’
‘‘Most heartily I pray
Your highness to assign our trial day.”’
The Procession afterwards :— al
What are these ie

So withered and so wild in their attire

- That look not like inhabitants of earth ?’’
‘‘Meén, wives and children stare, ery out

and run
As it were doomsday. =

Seniors, and for that matter, others:—

 

 

WINTER DAWN.

 

Silence rests unbroken o’er the world;

Forest tips yield to the light caress

Of the fragrant mist, as gentle maidens kiss

Their graceful finger tips. And, one by one,

The faithful night lamps of the sky go out.

The pale wistful face of a virgin cloud

Reflects the glorious blushes of the Day, _

Advancing slow to keep her tryst with Man.

The icicles all scattered on the snow,

(As children toss their playthings on the
bed, )

Like opal prisms flecked with amythest,

Rival the radiance of her lovely eyes.

The trembling of the expectant earth is
stilled,

The carefree birch tree and the stately pine

Cease whispering, and bow their graceful
heads:

In reverence, to receive God’s breathed
blessing.

The world, stirring in sleep, sighs softly,

And slowly opens drowsy, smiling eyes.

—TAM

 

Medicals :—
‘‘Behold the pattern of thy butcheries.’’
‘‘You must be purged too—your sins are
rank, ©
A twelvemonth shall you spend and never
Test,
But seek the weary beds of people si¢k.’’
The Glee Club :—
‘‘Light airs and recollected tunes
Of these most brisk and giddy-pae’d times.’
‘* At last, though long, our jarring notes
Students’ Council Election :—
‘‘T know my price, I am worth no worse a
place. »? .
‘‘Entreat them . . to give their oe a6
Spring Exams :—
Write till your ink be dry.’’
“My dull brain was wrought with things
| cr Si

Se asihies dibhind both iaas

‘When more is felt than one has power to

_ SBtay you imperfect, speakers tell: me
more,”

 

Rages
Taha Sven: ves: oC wi”

‘* Four lagging winters and four wanton “Bobbed” co-eds :—

see inane

ai
a iy

ey ry
aie i

“Himself the primtose path of dalliance

‘3 “A heavy summons lies like lend upon me.” Bs
University Hall, any morning:—
— Scio aoe a Son no

y “New customs eh ey Be

_ Yet. <a Hlowed

 

> +. ' ie a4 1a) a4
ae Men en caged, Raped sre
AT OF
a oe he sa mesa t 0

P| bh 7). eae 4

 

 
 
 

Pine Hill Post

 

Malcolm MacMillan is not back yet.
“Why does he take a week to travel from
Boulardie to Halifax?’’ Archie McKinnon
asks. But that is a foolish question which
only suggests other baffling preblems such as
these :

Where did George McIntosh get the ring?
Why has Bob Ross that lean and hungry
look? Or why does Sutherland McLeod use
the telephone so often? Or why does Cecil
Jones never speak above a whisper ?

Duncan MacMillan has been - quite sick.
‘The Tory revival in Lake Ainslie was almost
4 fatal blow. But the worst effect was thatBob Robb got sick too and incidentally had to
miss a class at Kitty’s.

Radical changes have taken place in the
dormitories. Jigger has abandoned the bliss
of solitude and taken to himself a wife from
Yarmouth: Dunphy has decided to share
Herbie Davidson’s weal and woe. There has
also been a realignment of some of the Island
products.

Just what did Dave Johnson mean when
he called over the long distance to Pictou
“Wife do you hear me listening?’’

Ernest MacDonald is about the only fellow
at Pine Hill who found the Christmas Vacation too long. However he has a most
excellent reason.

Ira Sutherland has taken to teaching
skating on McCurdy’s Pond. And _ soft,
sweet feminine voices sing his praises.

Some fellow asks ‘‘Why that longing look
in Danny McCuish’s eyes?’’ Well tobogganing time is at hand and Danny remembers
those glorious nights at the golf links. And
of course some are not strong enough to pull
their own sleighs. |

“Hurrah! This is leap year!’’ cries Kay
Hamilton, and all the boys know what he
means,

When we hear*of Broadway and Zeigfeld Follies and the cabarets we almost wish
we had gone to New York and Indianapolis
with Sid and Cliff.

By the way Shirreff Hall, Sam, Proffit has
to ag a little homework this winter.

ener

 

_ SHIRREFF HALL FEEDS.

Too — feeds? The thing’s lapel
There can’t be to many feeds! |

  

oie eRe 6

am. &

. ie Rider eee Rhee AaB. MSS AREY

re

THE DALHOU SIE GAZETTE

“PLAYERS

ri NAVY CUT

ii Wi
“( SN i

! Z .
fo

‘
>

ey rr PS atin tee ae ra: i are gs oy he . oe
aT Rae eee ee er ee
Py yap ‘, se anny , ae a ee "51 e, Vane | Osea ae .
on

 

 

TIES
Ai

Ai.
{hia

"hee Pay |

b)
ts

10 for 18§
20 « 35
and in of
and 100

SHIRREFF HALL.

After the grind of the last few weeks before the holiday, a rest apparently did all the
girls a world of good, and New Year’s resolutions are floating all about the Hall. There
were several casualties resulting from exams,
but none really serious, and there is no depletion in‘numbers. As a matter of fact, there
have been discovered some brilliant lights, to
whom congratulations are in order. People
who can make classes in every subject deserve
— congratulations.

Whether it is due to high living at Christmas time or not, still it can be truthfully said
that most of the girls are not getting any
thinner. It is a tribute to the Hall’s dining

Everyone is very sorry for Irene Allen,
who, when in Indianapolis was taken ill with
diphtheria. She is still there, but as it was

~ not a serious case, her return is hoped for

within the next two weeks. She is one of the

wecple previously mentioned as shining lights.

_ Between hockey, basket-ball, skating and

 

 

‘i

Ties With Professor McIntosh

 

In a recent letter to the Gazette the Hon.
R. M. MeGregor of New Glasgow says, in
part, ‘‘This is my thirty-second annual
renewal, the same as _ Professor D.
MelIntosh’s, but not in Judge Patterson’s
class.’’

Stately Seniors Make Merry.

 

Seniors in Arts had a sleigh drive on
Thursday night. After journeying as far as
the Wayside Inn, they came back to Shirreff
Hall for refreshments and a dance. The party
was enjoyed by all, even by some unexpected

guests.
—Ap. R.

|
adviser. A good many knew her before; but
those who did not, are quickly discovering as
did the rest, that she is a real good sort.

The Fire Chief is keeping on her job. A
few nights ago, she spotted a fire when on her
way home, and with her characteristic presence of mind climbed up a snow bank and
rang in the alarm. Cheers for Tiny! Even
it it won't» very big fire she hasn't for.

gotten how; but it is to be hoped that the re‘minder will not produce « fire drill. a

 
 
POPULAR  RF.ASONING

 

X. He is in the same faculty with me and in
my own year;"he goes to my church and
belongs to the same party in polities, but his
morals ‘are beastly and his manners disgusting; I would not trust him any further than
I could see him, and as far as lying goes,
Ananias himself has nothing on him.,’’

Have you ever anybody speak that way?
Of course, often, and even around a university. But, hear him again a few minutes
later when he is comparing his class, faculty,
eollege, church, or political party with some
other. Then, strangely enough, the organization to which he belongs is a unit for all that
is honest, noble, and worthy, while the other
is judged by its worst elements which he
does not fail to exhibit in all their loathsomeness.

Some time later he gets into a discussion on
international or interracial affairs. Here,
forgetting that he is now associated with all
these other churches, colleges, and political
parties which he had been so lustily condemning but a short time before, he speaks of his
own country or race again as a unit, and a
unit for the highest and noblest of Christian
virtues while the others are not even given

 

 

I credit for the possibility of their having with; in them some one political party, some single
ts religious body, or even some scattered in
( dividuals with nearly as lofty ideals as his
Bite own.

This is the ‘‘Popular Reasoning,’’ but
should not college students be more scientific
in their judgments?

| —,-F..C.

  
  

EVERY STUDENT NEEDS
EXERCISE.

‘Some people when they are asked why they do
not attend the gym classes and exercise a few
times a week, reply: ‘Why, I don’t need the gym.
I get plenty of work at my business; or, I am out
of doors half the time, walking around,’ This
a mistake, for everyone needs some kind of hygienic
gym exercise, no matter what his daily work may
be, even if it be outdoor work of a heavy kind, as
that of laborer, farmer, bridge worker, etc. All
need hygienic exercise of some kind to counteract
the deforming tendency that continually doing one
kind of work has upon the human body. This is
especially stooping over, as students, draftsmen,
~~ bookkeepers, etc. The faulty position that one
~ holds his body in most of the time will finally
ee become permanent if he does not take corrective
work to prevent it. In his daily occupation a man
does not use his whole body so as to harmoniously
- —s develop =its. members; hygienic gym work is
necessary; also to correct common deformities,
low. shoulders, flat chests, large abdomens,
. | stooping head, small lung. capacity, flat feet, small
nee narrow shoulders, spinal curvature, ete.
oe people did not eat any oftener than they
e their bodies, they would soon starves (i 2.

 

 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

—— a

‘‘T have absolutely no use for that, fellow |

SPLENDID OFFER .TO YOUNG ECONOMISTS.

 

Mr, Roger W. Babson, founder’ and
president of the Babson Statistical Organization, has offered two prizes for the — best
essays on the subject, ‘‘The Forecasting of
the Price of Wheat—or Cotton—or of
Lumber,’’ submitted by graduate or -undergraduate students who are officially registered in any college or university of the United
States or Canada,

Two prizes are offered: (1) a prize of $650
for the best essay submitted by either. an
undergraduate or a graduate student at any
American university (2) a prize of $400 for
the best essay by an undergraduate student
at any American university.

Terms of the competition :

1. All graduate and _ undergraduate
students who are officially registered in any
college or university of the United States or
Canada are eligible.

2. Manuscripts must be limited to 12,000
words, typewritten on one one side of white
paper, 8 1-2 x 11 inches, and double spaced.
Any number of graphie presentations may be
included in the essay.

8. The manuscript submitted must bear a
pseudonym but not the author’s name, and
must be accompanied by an envelope containing the author’s name and pseudonym.

4. No manuseript will be returnéd. A
copy should be retained by the writer, if he

 

DAL. GIRLS DEFEAT Y.W.C.A.

The Dalhousie girls’ basketball team won
their first match of the season, which was
played in the Studley gymnasium on Thursday night, January 10, against the Y.W.C.A.
The Seore was 25—17, the Dalhousiennes
leading throughout the game, A return
match will probably be played tonight (Wednesday) in the West End Baptist Hall.

The lineup of the Dal team:

Forwards: Rosie Goldstone, Edith Maeneill,
Marion Campbel), Centres: Carol Hawkins,
Alison MacCurdy, Mabel Borden, Guards:
Elinor Barnstead, Harriet Roberts.

 

or she wishes to preserve the composition.

5. No information bearing on any of the
subjects will be given out by the donor
through the Babson Statistical Organization.

6. The essays must be submitted to Ray B
Westerfield, the Secretary of the American
Economie Association, Yale Station, New

Haven, Conneticut, on or before October 1,

1924.

7. The American ace, Association
reserves the right to publish and copyright
for its‘own use the essays which are awarded
the prizes, but will cancel this reservation in
ease it decides not to publish either or both
of the essays. Those receiving no award may
be published by the writers.

--was played in the Arena,

 

 

Dal—5 Crescents—1

.Dal’s first game in the City‘ League series
Tuesday night,
against the Crescents Jan 8, the latter being
outclassed by a seore of 5 to 1.

For an early game of the series it was exceptionally fast, the Dal team exceeding
fondest expectations and clearly showing the
primé importance of their gym training.
Their excellent combination was a feature of
the game throughout, self being entirely
sacrificed—thus making a perfectly balanced
team.

The first period saw the seore 1—0 in the
Crescent’s favor after fast and hard playing
by both sides.

The Tigers came on the ice again impressing everyone with their look of grim determination. This soon bore fruit when Wilson
after a nice rush passed to Haslam for a
score.

Some spectacular combination was displayed at this stage of the game, McKenna figuring prominently, and this combination would
_ have proved successful several times but for
Hanrahan, goalie for the Crescents.

Haslam scored on another pass from Wilson making the tally 2—1. Dynlop, always
on the spot and playing a ath game pegged one more for Dal.

In the third session Dal proved to be in far
better shape than their opponents and pressed them hard, Bates, who, as usual had been
playing a fast and effective game made a
long rush notched the final point, the score
standing 5—-1.

Lewis in goal, although not overworked
stopped some tricky ones and is living up to
his reputation.

Manager Gass, Capt. Bates and “Doe?
Stirling are to be congratulated on rounding
the team into shape so quickly. Teams line
up as follows :—

- Dalhousie—Lewis, goal; Dun! and
Haslam, defense; Bates, centre; McKenna

and Wilson, wings; Smith and MeLean,
subs.

  

  
   

~ & :

ees

yo a < 5th co a
raduateatadent is «

sandy
sitar rennin ical sk oi

' ean em gh

Sane tg he f

Wi ma hie cw Aen Doren eying

eee aoe ded

@ach, Cot
~ ange sr
, *

= = =\-7.—— 7 FY Seeeet , rs 7
eos td ee Se ale Te AR a ae z

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

DALHOUSIE. TIES CHAMPION DARTS

DALHOUSIE AND
DARTMOUTH TIE

 

Dalhousie’s second game in the City
League was played in the new rink at Dartmouth last Friday evening. An interestitig
game was looked for since the Crescents had
held Dartmouth, last year’s champs, to a 2—1
score and Dalhousie had won over tlie
Crescents by a tally of 5 to 1. But the wet
weather put a damper on the play. At timcs,
especially when shots were tried, the ice presented a shower bath effeet and the puck
would refuse to move beyond a few yards.
Several times Roe McKenna thought he was
in a shower bath and tried to use his stick
as a towel. However, the play was very fast
and had the ice been in good condition, fans
would have seen the fastest game yet played
in the series. The next game between Dal
and the Darts is looked forward to with keen
interest by all the fans.

There was not a slow moment in the game,
and the interest in it was not lessened
because the puck was often lost in a puddle
of water in front of a goal, the player thus
losing a golden opportunity to score.

Both teams were in first class condition and
played hard throughout. Under the cireumstances, Dal could not work any combination
play as effectively as in the previous games,
nevertheless there was some pretty combination work done. The game ended 1-—1 at
the end of the third period, overtime play
being prevented by the condition of the ice.

Lewis stopped a number of speedy ones that
managed to get clear of the ice, the one tally
against him being on an unexpected rebound
from Haslam’s stick which managed to find
a corner in the nét. Dal’s point was made
by McKenna on a speedy, long distance shot.
Bates and Wilson, always good stick handlers,
were prevented from showing their wares to
the best advantage and often got ahead of the
puck; Haslam played an effective game.
Dunlop and Hickey managed to propel the
puck for several speedy end to end rushes—
only to have their shots fade into mist.

‘The game was not in the least disappointing and Dal fans who travelled across the
water, felt well repaid for their trip. Line
‘up as follows. |
eee ree goal; Patterson and
“MacDonald, defense; M. Beazley, centre; T.
and H. Radford ee L. Seaer, yoate

_ INTERCOLLEGIATE LEAGUE

| fey gt hd sort pat ator ink at

a

 

  

 

 

«
Tiger’s Training Trip

The Dalhousie Hockey Team opened its
campaign during the Christmas holidays
with a trip to Truro, where they met the fast
team representing that town on New Years
Eve.

The ice was in excellent condition and an:

extremely fast game was played for so early
in the season.

The Tigers went on the ice for the first
time that night and held the Truro Cubs to
the elose score of 5—2. Hickey apened the
scoring in the second period, but Smith
evened up a minute later. Truro netted
another and Bates evened up while Truro
scored the winning goal towards the end of
the third period.

Joe Crocket refereed satisfactorily. Line
up: Lewis, Dunlop, Haslam, Bates, Wilson,
Hickey, Clouston MacPherson, Glenister.

The second game of the year was played

New Years night, when Dalhousie faced
Kentville, one of the best teams in the
provinee.

Kentville produced a fast team, and handed the Tigers a 10 to 2 beating. The game

was more interesting than the score indicates, ”

as the Collegians held the town team to 4—2
at the end ofthe second period. In the third
period Dal were outplayed and Kentville
scored easily. Dalhousie were not in condition to stand the pace especially after a
hard game the night before, and a 5 o’clock
train journey (which was not an afternoon

one). The Tigers were also without MeKenna. Kentville scored twice the first
period, and Bates netted one for the
College. Kentville added two more the

next period and Hickey bit the twine for
Dalhousie. The Kennedy brothers were
responsible for Kentville’s large score. Ves
Laing referred.

 

ATHLETIC ISLAND GIRLS COMING,

The Charlottetown Middies, a team of girls

from Prinee Edward Island, will visit —

Halifax to play Dalhousie, in the first week
of February, and the Dalhousie girls are
looking forward to the match with them.

 

FEW FAIR HOCKEYISTS AT DAL.

Every effort is being made to have a
girls’ ice hockey team, but there are many
difficulties. Few girls have played before,
and Gertrude Mills, the manager, finds it
very hard to get a time to suit everyone. AS

  
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
    
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
    
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
     
   
    

 

        
     
 
          
         
   
 
    
 
 
 
  
    
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
    
  
 
 
   

   
   
  

   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
ei
ms ~~ _—*

te

 

a
~%

o!
4 ye’ .
—

 

Kliff's Krazy Kuts

W. A. P. (addressing the students at Pine
Hill)—‘‘It is wonderful to go back to the
Highlands and glens of Scotland; to mingle
with the people and to imbibe their spirit.’’

Dune—‘‘It sure would be.’’

 

 

First Co-ed (at Shirreff Hall) —‘‘Who was
that calling you?’’

Second Co-ed—‘‘Long distance.’’

First Co-ed—‘‘Long distance call ?’’

Second Co-ed—‘‘Yes; Jigger Grant from
Pine Hill.’’

 

Notice.

The student who left a book in the
anatomy rooms in which he left a letter commencing ‘‘My precious darling’’ can have
same by applying to Kliff,

 

‘‘When its Midnight in Katie-lu-Land,”’
“Do you Ever Think of Me?’’ ‘‘Sweet
Lady,’’ ‘‘You’re a Rose in the Devil’s Garden’’ and ‘‘If You Could Care for Me,’’ ‘‘My
Wild Irish Rose,’’ “‘I’d Weep No More’’ and
then ‘‘Someday’’ it would be ‘‘ Everybody
Step’’ to ‘‘Our Jazz Wedding.’’ But I’ve
got ‘‘Lonesome Blues’’ because ‘‘IT Ain’t No
 body’s Darling’’ and ‘‘I’d Give the World to

Know’’ ‘‘Why Dear,’’ ‘‘Teach Me,’’ ‘‘In a
Boat for Two,’’ ‘‘Caresses’’ that will drive
away ‘‘The Blues’’ my ‘‘Nauglity Sweety
Gives to Me.’’ ‘‘I Ain’t Nobody Much,’’
but you can call me ‘‘Mon Homme’? if you
*“*“Wanna.’’ ‘‘I Want a Picture of You’’ in
your sweet ‘‘Little Alice Blue Gown.’’

At ‘‘Three O’clock in the Mornirig,’’
“‘Leave Me With a Smile’’ and ‘‘My Carolita Mammy,’’ ‘‘Remember’’ that ‘‘I’) Be

‘Here When You Come Back’’ to ‘‘See Mam
my Every Night.’’ .Meanwhile as long as

“We Have No Bananas,”’ ‘‘You’re Not For- |

gotten’’ by |
‘*BaRNEY Gooa@LE.’”’

 

a Little drops of water,

Frozen on the walk
Make the naughty ‘adjectives
Mix in people’ wae

pothatesnieneheetinewweieotnanennninssennnesiarnens
<THE

. J
Cae co ‘ z
RMR akon
4
ae 46%:
, " Pi ¥
: ?

 

THE DALHOUSIE. GAZETTE

SUCCESSFUL SHOW ASSURED.

The Executive of the Glee and Dramatie
Society met at the residence of Mrs. G. Fred
Pearson Thursday, Jan. 10, to make the final
arrangements for the production of the
operetta ‘‘The Maid and the Middy.’’ Dates
set for presentation at the Majestic Theatre
were January 28 and 29,

The question of taking the show on tour
was discussed and was left to be submitted
to the Students Council. It is hoped that
they will decide in favor of the trip, as the
show certainly promises to be worth such a
venture.

ENTRIES FOR CONTEST CLOSE JAN. 21.

Further business of the meeting was the
planning of the program for the remainder of
the year, especially the monthly entertainments given in Glee Club by the various
societies. Any organized group may compete
for the shield awarded for the best entertainment, including Shirreff Hall, Pine Hill and
probably a mixed ‘‘out-of-residence”’ group.
One Society may draw assistance from
another but no person is permitted to appear
on the platform with two different Societies.

All entries for the year’s contest must be
in the hands of the President, Carl P.
Bethune or Secretary-Treas., Douglas Me
Donald before Monday January 21.
—* Ap-Rign.”’

 

EFFICIENCY,

 

That little rosy rosebud mouth *, "#7 @
Was .chiefly made to pout.
It certainly was never meant

For profs to pump things out.

Those dainty, soft and pearly hands
Not themes to write and fold,

But muchly far more useful

For me to sit and hold.

And ears all covered over
With short and fluffy hair,
Altho’ they list.to nothings
Give lecture themes no care.

But when it comes sp a

Two dreamy ay it oe
ane cram a any ge :

lips’ ay si passed.” :
<p 2 a pen

 

saeamanman

 

Finest Materials, Lining and

Trimmings with best _workman
ships at reasonable prices.

Clayton & Sons

Tailors & Clothiers

 

Afternoon or Siiaiis

 

 

Morning, afternoon or evening, The
Green Lantern is at your service. Be
it a light lunch, an ice cream or a full
course dinner, the service is guaranteed —
to be’all that one could wish.

 

The Green Lantern
HALIFAX CANADA

A. & W. MACKINLAY LTD:
STATIONERS .

 

cs i i ee 
3
|
:

 
