im oe ae 7

Oe he SO eas eee:

siya & er Pa

Che Balhousie Gazette

Founded 1869

One Dollar Per Year
' D KR. Webster, B. A.

Issued Weekly
Editor-in-Chief >
Associate Editors

Miss Anna Grant Miss Allison MeCurdy

R, F. Hoss, R, A. P. T. Hickey, BR. A.

Faeulty Editors

Miss K, Covert A. F. Macdonald
W. S&S, Gilehrist A. Munro
W. G, Dawson D. L Meany
Exchange Editer - - - DD. O Hebb
Personals and Social _>.. Mise Avis Marshall
Sports Editor - George Morrison, B. A.
Girlas’ Sports - - Miss Rleanor Barnstead
Staff Artist - - - -..H. A Davidson
» Oversens Correspondent - J, A. Duntop, B. A
Pine Hill Reporter - -  H, R. Norton, B, A,
A. B. Murton, B. A.

- Business Manager  -- ¥
52 QUINPOOL ROAD
Phone Sack. 813

EDITORIAL

 

 

The death of Dr. Ryatt removes from the

dental profession one of itg ablest members.
His skill and ability won for him a place in
the front rank of his calling.

As Dean of the faculty of dentistry, to
which he was appointed on the death of Dr.
vey two years ago, he continued the
work that was dearest with him, the Dalhousie
Dental School.. He had been with it since its
inception and, ‘as professor of operating dentistry was at once an able teacher and a

     

‘The passing of, . ‘ds but. another
0 ak ape ¢ list of Nova Seotia’s

   

as who have been galled. within a few

  

. aga : ‘fe aa a “i Fk
a4 ve, Rr me ve Oa K u f

the. iental

 

‘he yet found time to serve for several
‘ president of the Children’s Aid Society, as an enthusiastic member of the Commercial Club, as a

FOUNDED 1869
HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 29, 1924

4n/ :
i eh
. Si

 

Cuts by courtesy of Herald, Mail.

Death of Dr. Woodbury
(Evening Echo)
The passing of Dr. Ralph H, Woodbury after

‘ only a short illness comes as a genuine shock to

this community where he was born and grew to
young manhood and became well established in his

profession. Through all this time he had made a’
_ place for himself in the hearts of many friends; and

in the esteem of the public generally, that can not
be filled by another.
Dr. Ralph Woodbury was one of those younger

 

citizens in whom lies the hope of this City. He was
_ always interested in that which concerned the busi
ness, educational and moral welfare of the City of
Halifax. In the very prime of life with the cares of
his profession, andthe responsibilities of a family,
years as

worker in Robie Street Methodist Church, as an

active worker in the Nova Scotia Dental Associa‘tion, and as a lecturer on the staff of the Dalhousie

University Dental School.
In all these phases of a busy life Dr. Woodbury

‘won the affection and esteem of those with whom

he came in contact, In his profession he ranked
high, as a man of his character could not fall below a high standard of work. His passing will be
a distinct loss to the commur ty where he has lived
and labored, and the sympathy of the city goes
mother and brother, Dr, W. W. Woodbury, orthoout to his wife and little ones, as well as to his
donist.
DR. GEORGE K. THOMPSON’S TRIBUTE
“Words fail: me in’ this” “connection. We all
cee aerate te tie yan

sicaidiatinliias.,**f

 
 

one | BOOTS FAN of
: been N instr his ee a ie
re - a ;

     

 

~
~~

DR. F. W. RYAN

the Dental School where from the first Dr, Ryan
held the position of Professor of Operative Dentistry. We became very fond’ of cuch other—I cannot imagine professional men having more pleasant
associations. Dr. Ryan gave a great deal of time
to the Dental Association and to public health (the
Committee on Oral Hygiene). He was a delegate
to the Dominion Dental Council, a member of the
Canadian Dental Association, and in his capacity
as Dean of Dalhousie Dental Coliege was its .representative at the meeting of the American Associa~
tion of Dental Schools, His opinion was sought by
the younger dentists in things professional, and a
highly valued by them. In short we have lost one ;
whom we all loved and honored, and our sense of

loss is grievous, and our sympathy with Mrs. Ryan

in her sudden and dstressing ervey nee abounu- “a
ing.” he, He

 

 
 
  
  
    

MR. F, PEARSON’S TRIBUTE
G. Fred Pearson, Vice-Chairman of the pedi of —
Governors of Dalhousie University said; 0 |
“Under the leadership of the late D. Frank
Woodbury and Dr. F, W. Ryan the Dental pre ts i
fession of Halifax has made a splendid and most
substantial contribution in the Maritime Provinces, — |
The establishnient of the Dental Faculty of Dalhousie was due.to the efforts and unselfish erie *
of these men. Th high -standards which ws
for. the Dental School have been adopted ?
model for-other dental schools and undr their.
direction the Faculty of Dentistry of Dalhousie. ae
University has a continent wide reputation and . 7
ranks with the leading schools of America. =
‘The late” ‘Dr. _ Ryan succeeded Di, Frank Woods
bury as the Dean of the Faculty.and give un
stintedly of his time and really great ability tof 13
direction. He was most highly esteemed by the
students, the Senate and the Board of the Univer_ GY. | He we eforupent Jo srectibing sith aaaty id
the moat ees -aa onal Sn er te
ithe tts teaches a

   
 
     
     
     
      
     
   
   
  

   
 
 

  

 
   
 
      
 
 
 
 

   
 

 
 
 

  

 
 

   

      
 
 
 

     
 

  
 

4 :

 

7 . |
Be a
a owds, f re | . a ir a i , a 4 ’ ay —— |
Ci ? bf I " : ; , ual , ’ 4" “ ri rr oe Pa) oo a - And be

_ the university cannot. ba
> t . a ct hy - "1-3 “7 i hh, ( " ba

r ‘ ae rr i . ,

a

ea i ' 6 a r , Bs)
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

What About a Rink?

 

It is rather early in the year to begin
talking about a rink; yet when one considers
the poor service given Dalhousie last year at
the Arena, both for hockey practice and
for skating, it is plain that some action
should be considered early this season.

The Student’s Council should consider at
their earliest opportunity whether it is advisable to have an open air rink somewhere on
the Dal grounds. Six or seven hundred
dollars are spent every year for five or six
nights’ skating at one of the city rinks when
this amount would easily set up and equip a
Dal open air rink: Surely the weather could
be depended upon to give us more than five or
six outings on it during the season.

Then from a purely athletic point of view
the rink would be a great boon. The hockey
teams find it hard to get suitable hours and
ice for their practices and the Interfaculty
teams are obliged to hire the Wanderer’s and
St. Mary’s rinks.

As to a suitable place, that will be a matter
for adjustment between the Student’s Council
and the Board of Governors, and it is understood on good authority that the Board is
willing to lend all possible assistance.

Let us cooperate and make this winter a
banner one in Dal ice cireles
 

To dive in the gurgling tank—to the far end

to splash—

What diff if you can’t dive but just make a
splash,

There is nothing at college you would enjoy
more ; ii

So come girls and see what the ‘‘Y’’ holds in
store. ,

If you know how to swim this is all I nee
say,

But perhaps you do not so attention please

3 pay—

When you go to the ‘‘Y’’ you don’t care a

’ bit

Whether you make of yourself a fool or a hit;
And if your first dive or even your twelfth
Makes such a bang you despair yourself
Ever becoming a nymph why don’t fret;
_For not a girl ever learned to dive yet,
Without giving her audience just heaps of
fun:
And don’t forget too—there’s no way but one
So certain for losing those few extra pounds,
No matter how hopeless your best diving
sounds: |
‘ ‘Bob.’’

“Father is pleased to hear you are a poet."
‘Ts he?’’ | |
‘Oh, very—the last of my sweet-hearts he

tried to throw out of th ehouse was a football
player.’’ eae er

- = Aly ee
= nite
ee sy

hy ; Binh ort, its » "Ts, & J
pe I : ova a ys af a x ees q 4 = Ooi ‘
ee ee ee Py eee eee ‘

Ground Hockey

 

On Wednesday afternoon, October 22, the
*Campus was the scene of a very interesting
practice match between the Halifax Ladies
College and the Dalhousie girls in grounf
hockey. The score resulted in a tie—2 all.
This is the first time this season that our girls
have had an opportunity to play against an
outside team and they upheld Dalhousie’s
standard nobly. The game, as the seore shows,
was quite even and was marked by the splendid combination of the H. L. C. girls as well
as the brilliant individual hitting of the Dz!
girls. The goals for the H. lL. C. team were
shot by Helen Hewat and those for the Dalhousie team by Mabel Borden and Anne Clark.
Miss Ward of the Halifax Ladies College

refereed in her usual satisfactory manner,
and both teams retired from the field feeling
that it was a splendid game.

Whose The Best Profession?

 

The customary: sop was thrown to the students of engineering Saturday when Lawrence
W. Wallace, secretary of the American
Engineering Council, told them that they contributed more to modern civilization than
members of any other profession.

We have heard the same thing from spokesmen addressing members of al! the other colleges. The students of agriculture are informed that the world could not possibly go
on without them, that all the civilization in the
universe would be as nothing without the
pork and beans they raise.

The students in the College of Law firmly
believe, having been told, that their efforts
keep the world running smoothly, that all
difficulties are ironed out by them. Medies are
certain, having been informed, that by setting
the bones of the world they are coftributing
materially to the advance of civilization, and
we of journalism are, quite sure, it having
been pointed out to us, that by printing the
news we are spreading knowledge and there is
no better mission than that.

And, to sum it up, all of them believe what
Mr. Wallace told the engineers, that their individual professions are ‘‘at this moment the
most promising opportunity for faithful,, determined, and energetic students. ’’

There is the rub. It is not because we think
our profession will be of most service to the
world that we enter it. It is not because we
have in mind any high ideals of service to
civilization, It is for the most part merely
and finally because we feel that the profession

we have chosen offers the greatest opportun
     
  

   
   

ity for service to ourselves. Having decided
that, it is easy and customary to invent sor

Cash Value of a College Education
Is Great Says Dean

The cash value of a college education to its
possessor is $72,000,.. according to a report
made public recently by Dean Everett W.
Lord, of the Boston university College of
Business administration. The report is based
0 na long study of the earning capacity of
college graduates. The cash value of a high
school education is placed by the report
$33,000.

The report places the average maximum income of the untrained man at $1,200; that of
the college graduate at $6,000. The total
earnings of each of the three types up to the
age of 60 are placed at $45,000, $78,000, and
$160,000 respectively. Dean Lord in his conputation estimated also that while the wuntrained man at he age of 50 begins to drop
toward dependeney the college man reaches
his mazimum eapacity ut 60.

‘‘The untrained man goes to work as a boy
of 14 and reaches his maximum ineome at the
age of 30,’’ the report said. ‘‘The maximum is
on the average less than $1,200 a year. In
view of the facts that this income is earned
through manuel labor: dependent on physical

. Strength, it begins to fall off at the age of 50

or even’ earlier, and soon reaches a level below self stupport.’’

The figures show that more than 60 of
every 100 untrained workers are dependent
on others for support at the age of 60. The
total earnings for the untrained man from 14
to 60 are about $45,000. Between the ages of
14 and 18 the four years whieh might have
been spent in high school the young man
usually earns not more than $2,000.

NOTICE

 

Of course you are going to the Med. dance
but if you have not as yet obtained your
ticket see

Eddie Cameron
George Smith
Billie Winfield
Cecil Phillips
Sam Morton
Harry O’Brien
Kelly MeLean
-  Poday.

Dum: How ya’ feeling?
Bell: Rotten.

  

j rue oe ; i mad
. G2: Dt: alii! cy TT =e
‘ pt 2's ‘ pie ont »

4 = rt ata.
j On 4 ee seal errs; } oe SS ee ba y
i , f Sl 3 > 4 ma tk Lyd ‘ee ~~ a Fe
F 1 ee eee “i rd wn a a cm) 4
] ea 2 A RR eae, re i
Sa oo Tear oe Ed %, ; = i; ‘az
=, i)

oe

 

  

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Just as'we predicted; the etiginéers’ theatre
party was an unqualified success. From the
early hour of seven’ till the respectable hour
of one thirty merry souples whiled' away thie
fleeting hours.

Quite a time has elapsed sitice the Majestic
rang with a Dal yell, but we put them wise
that night and let them know who the classy
bunch were by an Engineers yell.

‘‘Captain Blood’’ was just the kind of
picture to give us pep for the very pleasant
dance held afterwards at the ‘‘Tarry Inn.”’

‘‘Jonny’”’ played. Hot diggity dawg! but
that boy is an orchestra in himself. Even
during the intermission for supper the little
jazz vibrations seemed to symeopate in our
feet. But for the excellence of the Tarry
cuisine we would be tempted to do some original terpsichorean stunts,

Who was there? Well, there were the
engineers of course, and the girls—well, pick
out the thirty best in the college and you have

‘em.

Professor and Mrs. Cox and Professor and
Mrs. Theakston ably chaperoned us and by
their co-operation helped make the party the
huge suceéss it proved to be.

Medical’ Notés

 

The growth of Dalhousie at a medical
centre is featured this year by two new buildings, one of which, the Dalhousie Health
Centre building is now completed and all the
activities which it is to house, are expected to
be in full swing this week: The new Health
Centre is'really a union of all the forces for
public health in Halifax. These are the Victorian Order of Nurses, Halifax Dispensary,
and the Massachusetts Halifax Health Commission. Each of thése is ¢arrying on well,
but the work is to be centrallized and more
fully developed at this new centre, The
building is‘modern in every detail and
splendidly equipped to carry on health work.
The clinic rootns, laboritoties, lecture rooms

out ‘in’ a frost’ careful Thanneér, affording the
maximuti’ 6f eorivénieride’ arid ‘service. Miss
Keith of Toronto, who has been engaged in
publit Health work in ‘that ‘city has ‘been

secured as matron and under her there’ ‘will

bea staff of somé- Six frurses: “Dr. Foster

Miirray is'in tharge of the Mass.-Halifax de
partments of Pathology and Bacteriology.
dirhiomiraerrtanvar gprs errr rtteeerrr er

iste. oiaab agate per Rar es
a so ar F or cal i n “TT

    
 
  
 

 

      

"

  

A
a 7 he

awa

Regt ue .

MUS GSP: le Pa

out for practice at the gym. on Tuesday -evehings. Medicine will probably play her

        

 

 
 
 
  

THE ‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

£ GSA
eae
eee ret on \

OGDEN'S
LIVERPOOL

  

able value both to the city and to the Dalhousie Medical School.

The other new building is being erected on
the site of the old pathological building, and is
to house the departments of Provincial Public
Health, and this centre is to be under the
supervision of Dr. Jost, with whom is associated Dr- Chisholm whose chief work is the
prevention of epidemics of infectious diseases
throughout the provirice. Dr. Nicholls is in
charge of the provincial departments of Bacteriology and Pathdlogy and the Dathousis
departments of Pathology and Bacteriology
are also to be located’ in this building. ‘This is
to be one of the finest medical étructures in
the province, modern, and containing every

facility for the work which it is to house.
offices) fiutwes’ and intetfies quarters are Jaid

THE 2 POPULAR D

  
   
  
    
 

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
119 YOUNG ST.
RYGGODS STORES

regrsiseeve Vere bea ba tht XJ ive Se

       

 
  

a BAe Id e ide LY Lagdi!
PRICES RIG a R21 Q ha 7
_ RIGHT—SERVI RIGHT gra ee

 

 

J. G- MacDonald, manager of the Medical | We BIRKS |

Basketball’ team, ‘wants to see all Med playets’

' }

first game about the first or second week in

; November.

3

   

  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  

The medical studsrita’ seisl fo convey theit™

   

for Class Jewellery

 

 

 

 

     
 
 
     
 
 

!

THE: DALHOUSIE GAZETTE _

 

- Shirreff Hall —

There is one phase of Residence ‘life to
which the Freshette does not need to be initiated, namely: bed-time feeds. About eleven
o’clock preparations for the repast begin.
Odors of coffee, toast, beefsteak, ete., float
down the corridor to tantalize the: uninvited
noses. Next comes the stuffy smell of the
coffee boiling over, then the loud and hospitable voice of the hostess summoning the guests
to the banquet. Cake with frosting high enough
for Agnes Duff, coffee which would support
the weight of Harriet Roberts or Blanche
Collins, and ice cream in quantities sufficient
to satisfy Dorothy Berry. In fact any eatable
which it is possible to digest has been ruthlessly ruled out.

The feeds of the Freshettes, unlike the
symposiums of their more learned contemporaries, the Seniors, are of short duration.
After an hour of shrieks and giggles, the
Sand Man starts his deadly work, and the
party breaks up. The air which has for some
time been rendered hideous, grows calm, the
smoke from the boiled-over coffee clears,—in
short, the feast of indigestibility and flow of
hilarity is ended.

We are very sorry to have to report a severe
ease of heart disease among our number.
Mary MacIntyre is the unfortunate victim.
The attacks on some occasions are more
acute than on others, and the weakness result-.
ing therefrom more startling in its effects. On
the night of the Freshie-Soph, although ...sh
herself did not attend, she was unable to return home until long after midnight, in fact
uftil the dancers themselves were arriving. *
Mary ‘deat, can’t anything be-done aboipit? |
Have you seen a doctor?

Purr-rr-r-#, }. Silenée—Ati “ihane laugh
frequently interjepted with “‘Is that so? You
win!’’ floated in through those windows,
which were” still ‘open’ at: the: unearthly -hour
of nine o’clock, Sunday morning. A_ few
euridus individuals, wondering what it all
meant, coutiously peéred out. “ And there
before the awesome portals of Shirteff Hall,
was a car containing no less a personage than
Professor -Sydyey Earle Smith. . Who else —
has such a laugh anyway? But what was he

 

doing there’ at that hour?» Was he bringing .

back the girl he had taken out the night be |

fore, or Calling for another? We wonder.

The fifteen Juniors in Shirreff Hall i
been in a panic for the last week. ‘‘Oh how,
tell me how I looked when I was eight’’ has

ome quite a catehword, The Postman has
then quite burdened with bundles of baby
elothes ried such like. y ribbon, sashes, |

nd sandals are at a premium, while the,

young ladies who have recently parted with
1eir hair have turned in,many an honest |
jenny through the manufdeture of wigs.
thildren of véry tender years, 'gavotting
et a ar ee

 

God was so kind to me.

 

‘ ‘
Bro culeHined 
‘the third yea To}

Commerce Notes_

 

Clarence Spencer has the honour of being
president of the Commerce Society this year.
We congratulate him on his victory, and hope
that he will have reason to be. proud of his
position before:the year is finished.

At the meeting on*Oct. 15th the society
was well represented. There were quite a few
new faces, but unfortunately all of the same
sex.

Our society is growing and before very long
should form a separate faculty. Even now
we are represented on the football team and
the Students’ Couneil.

We expect to have a Commerce pin this
_ year. A suitable design has been chosen, and
Messrs. Thompson and Doyle form the pin
committee. It was decided to keep the fees
at one dollar this year.

Samuel evidently thinks himself'a duck this
year as he is always singing ‘‘ Woddle I do.’’

Jerry is trying hard to form the library
habit. We found him reading yp real estate
the other day to get information about
‘‘Sherlock Holmes.’’

 

' Prof. What did Sir Walter Raleigh say
when he placed his cloak in the mud for the
queen to walk on?

Bingo. Coming out of one of his dreams
ard taking a long chance, ‘‘Step on it kid’’.

 

«Reg. _ Have you anything ox for tonight ?

~ Alfte*” (quickly) No, not a thing.

Reg. - Well: you better put mento on
as it may be chilly.

 

‘Tis True

 

I looked right at the object,
"Twas a wonder sure to see,
I gazed and gazed—and er how.

I thought onal my friends alike

Ria ah eh 0
To-gaze into their mirror

And not my face to see. Y0 gg gi

 

—=<=<= DISPENSING

3 MacLeod, Balcom Ltd.

   

 
 

 

   

 

, fits =3e2ac Tr.
bh = 7
f f rt ali er, me
art) te-soF a

‘$gom 46 s
7 ane eS oY inn

toe

Freshie-Soph Debate

 

At Sodales; on Friday night, it was -demonstrated with no assistance whatever from
Professor Macneflf: that 28 comes ahead of 27.
The debate was conducted by W. Sedgewick
’25 and proved very entertaining. Miss Jean
Cumming and G. Sutherland successfully
upheld the negative of the resolution ‘‘ Resolv
ed that compulsory attendance should be —

abolished at Dalhousie,’ agaist Miss Freda
Winfield and J. A. Jardine of the Sophmore
class.

Jardine argued that compulsory attendance

interfered with the originality of the student .

and would have it abolished lest Dalhousie
graduates should become like the Americans,
who are said to resemble nothing so much as
Ford cars, lest from Dalhousie, just as from
that Detroit factory; there should issue a
stream of ‘‘standardized nuts.’’ The audience found one of his illustrations very affecting—that of a Dal. professor (revitalicize)
his work at the end of the session while the
unfortunate students are compelled to forego
the delight of new lectures.

Sutherland, the leader of the Freshmen, im- |

mediately gained the interest and confidence
of his hearers by quoting, ‘‘If whiskey in
terferes with your business, then give up your .

business,’» Mr. Sutherland proved to have a
great fondness for pictures and painted in
glowing phases the good ship Dalhousie with

~ the Board of Governors at the helm—in this

case the opponents would seem to agree for
we have no doubt that the course marked out
would in no wise be lacking in that originality
so desired by Jardine. Incidentally: Sutherland, at several points in his speech, betrayed
a lofty disregard for women students.

Miss Winfield branded herself at once as an

efficiency expert and showed that the abolition

of this ruling out just how bad her professors
of finding out just how bad her professors

' were. Miss Winfield also reassured us that —

Dalhousie students do not play marbles on
the Campus—what need then of discipline?
This speaker showed a clear conviction that
‘‘There’s something wrong sumewhere, ”’

Miss Cumming feared that, if there were no
compulsory attendance, the class rooms would

be a pathetic sight the morning after a dance

and sketched the pitiable case of our profos- .
sors vainly searching for somoone to lecture |
__ to, The audience was here moved to tears.
_ After a short rebuttal by each of the lead- —
_ers, Leonard probly tome ree:

critique. ") .

   
 

     

pe 2 get
7 .
‘4 “
“1. cot P
i. eo r A
__ sheets al)
AF

 

 

  
 
  

25! 25! | 25!

 

Upon the evening of the 23rd, a deep gloom
descended upon the city of Halifax when the
Seniors.withdrew from. it. .the radiance of
their presence and graciously gave to Dartmouth the proudest night of her existence; at
7.45, the hands of the Post Office clock waved
a fond farewell and the ferry wafted its preeious cargo away.

Having arrived at the house ,the girls proceeded to spend: some time in the usual vain
manner, from which occupation they were
attracted down ‘stairs by a medley of sweet
sounds; while waiting for certain of. our
company who were evidently endeavoring to
secure a ferry for themselves alone, the boys
were giving a vigorously harmonious render.
ing of Dal songs and, as we listened to this
outburst, we could not but reflect. ‘‘ Where,
in all this world of voices, could we find one
so lanquidly soothing as that of Maurice Armstrong?’’

~The crowd was now increasing so that we
began to entertain anxieties as to whether the
floor would be too crowded for dancing, but.
Bill Cave didn’t come after all so we had a
nice roomy time.

At last, even Ruth and Pill arrived and _
the dancing started; the floor was splendid,

Jonny ‘Thurrott was at the piano and. class

25 was together again; need we add that '

everyone had a wonderful time?

We danced in two rooms, played biidee % in
another and those reckless ones, who do not
come from Pictou County, sat at times upon
the stairs. . r ; r

There are certain Aesia to note. - For one
thing, we were cut to the quick to learn, in
the course of the evening: that the President
of Delta Gamma had forgotten to sign the

leave-book. Again, the evening was not even —

half over when Wally Sedgewick arrived,

punctual as always—Awake! Arise! Oh ye ©

Board of Governors, a medal should be
struck! Tt is most regrettable that Marion
Elliott was so carried away by the prevailing
excitement ha she wice addressed her
partner as ‘‘dear’’,
learn hat Ted Chipman was too ill to attend

but a speedy recovery is looked for.

 

DALHOUSIE STUDENTS—
_ Re can where Seat

‘ae Your

onder to students
mee rat

     
 

 

'.. changed the placard to ‘‘Cav Barn’’,
as that street-car rumbled empty away, there

‘Tt saddened us also to —

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Popular Dalhousians Engage in Hog
Industry

 

The Gazette is informed from a reliable
source that during the -past summer vacation
Charlie Baxter with his silent partner
Ronald Forbes were engaged in live stock
raising operations on the St. Margaret’s Bay
Road.

Charlie, w eare informed, specialized in hog
raising and he was so successful that he was
enabled to have his appendix removed on the
profits of one single transaction. The partnership, we understand, had a completely
furnished plant and advertised by bill boards
onythe public highway.

Only the stern dictates of the ferry management forced us to leave ; our grateful thanks tu
the Hebbs for their kindness to us.

Back again in Halifax, we had the unexpected joy of seeing 1 Belt Line Car ap‘proaching our corner; it stopped and we

‘stood in eloquent silence while the conductor
Then,

. burst upon the air the anguished ery of Jack
Friel, ‘‘Now for my five mile race!’’

Our only question is, ‘‘when is the next ’25

; party ?”’
SWE ah NOARan Sap (Slim- hy ie

AN INVITATION

is cordially extended to all Dalhousians
to visit our new Sporting Goods
Department, where they will find a full

range | Of the famous ' ne ft ‘and
Slazenger Lines:

euunenrs:, LIMITED

454 BARRINGTON ST ' HALIFAX, N, 5.

     
   

 

Sodales Notice

 

First Open Meeting To-nigh.
Room 8. P, M.
Subject ‘‘Resolved that the policies of the

‘present Government of Canada are not in

the best interests of the Canadian People.’’
Affirmative—F’. W. Bissett, C. P. Bethune.
Negative—W. E. Darby, A. F. MacDonald.
Short business meeting before Debate.
Everybody welcome.

Here lies the body of Sandy Mebeth
Five cents lost he and so bled to death.
a a
Herbert Aloysius Percival Bimm,
Died trying to milk a ean of Klim.
_* @ @
An Inrian brave, one Running Water
Tried to kiss the chieftan’s daughter.
He was shot at dawn.
That’s the insidious thing about halitosis.
* «4
Waterman Swan, he died of pique

Because his fountain pen would leak.
* * *¢

Mary Janet Elizabeth Gloster

Died in a midnight attack on lobster.
* @ *

Here are the remains of Ignatz Loyola

Tramped to death by his gorgonzola.
* * *

I M. Nutty lies quite. dead,
Integral calculus burst his head.

Fall
and CANES

N are a ‘‘Kelly’’ specialty—which means
\ a full range of the latest and best at

moderate prices,

-‘KELLY’S

_ LIMITED

| GRANVILLE ST.

~

UNEAT PRESSING
PARLORS

ORIGINAL BOB LEARY,
Manager —

Munro |

 

  
 

'

if, MMA LAA AAAL AA AAAAAALS, (AA ALA AL .
: : ;

 
Ne

i 2

i ee eee
i “ bs Sa Eh

———_————————— ee

    
  
  
 
  

 

 

 

Pine Hill Post

 

The political pot is boiling—Some time ago
Union was formed

a Pine Hill Student’s
under the able leadership of Bill McOdrum.

The object of this society is to provide a
convenient, profitable and instruetive form of

entertainment. Great enthusiasm was ehown
4 the organization meeting and a suggestion

that the first effort of

the Society be the

holding of a Mock Parliament. gained favour

rapidly.

Three parties took form spontaneously,
Leaders appeared for each party, and. ever
since a furious political campaign has been

agitating the Residence.

The ancient Conservative Pacty has named
very able leaders but up to the present time
has been unable to gain the support of the

young Pine Hill element.

The Liberal Party has many wily politicjans and they appear to have made considerThe Labour Party runs true
to form presenting to the electors much loud

able headway:

oratory and many radical proposals.

At the time of writing the issue oft the
election is still in doubt but many political
prophets are forecasting a victcry for labour.

Jarvis McCurdy in addréssing a meeting
in support of the Liberal policy of extending

the car line to Pine Hill cited a case where he
himself had to take his girl back from a Pine
Hill ‘‘ At Home’”’ through six inches of slush.
Herbie Davison replied that judging, from the
honourable gentleman’s recent record at
Shirreff Hall, (as published in the Gazette),
six inches of ‘‘slush’’ would be a moderate
estimate. This is a base slander against
Jarvis. The general opinion here is that he
was seized, overpowered and dragged into the
Hall against his will and that onee in he

‘‘seen’’ his duty and ‘‘done”’ it like a Spar- 7

tan: After what happened to Jarvis many of

the more timorous Pine Hillers are giving |

Shirreff Hall a wider berth than ever,

Sam Profitt made a fatal mistake the other
night. He went to a celephone and called up —

a number for the usual after-supper conversation. A female voice replied.

speaking, Mr. Profitt’” said the voice at the
ottier end of the line- Sam was found in the
booth unconscious five minutes later.

The “international Basket Ball league is

flourishing. Two games have already been

finally perched on the banners “of © ‘Cape |
Breton. eal mons

potatos ve ae ha ae

   

, “Ts that you —
dear?’’ said Sam ‘‘This is Pine Hill College

played. First Pictou C ty, versus Cape
_ Breton. s,was a mémorable and a bloody —
battle but victory after ho ring a long time |

‘

 

 

THEM, DAI “HOUS SASS :

ee ee

noble ones, the bright intellectual ones. and
the kind he got.

Fatty McLeod has gained 10 lbs. since he
came to Pine Hill: Of late the Residence cat
has been sleeping with him: This disproves
the old superstition that it is unhealthy to
have cats in a room wher¢ ehildren are sleeping.

That reminds us—The Pine Hill Cat wants
to know:—Whether Seymour Gordon was
awake or dreaming when he got out of bed in
the night after the Freshie Soph Danee, muttering to himself: ‘‘O dear! I wish T had
something to put on my lips.’’

** Apostle’’,

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
Three Phones

Cut anewery noes quets

  

 

a mene res

the new Bridge Box that makes a dlightful
“fifth c

 
  
    
 
 
   
    
  
   
    
  

‘=>

 

P hantasy, and Lif e

 

My spirit on thy eager flights
To find thy future home,
Although the lure of small delights
May cause thy feet to: roam,
Make no mean dwelling thy abode
No altar poor thy shrine,
And linger not beside the road
To platsy wreaths entwine.
* # @

But mount as if on eagle’s wings
From ’cumbering sloth set free
Leap forth with that resolve that brings
The fullest liberty.
And to that glittering summit high
Assist my body weak
O—even though that flesh may die
Thy lofty level seek.
H. A. D.

ee eee

These Wild Young Men!

 

 

 

The friends of Elmer Doyle, Commerce 26,
will be shocked to learn that on. a recent Sat
/-urday evening, he had dinner at the green

with no less than 8 girls, having as his
support but one feeble and middle-agéd man:
Mr. Doyle’evidently feels that, having taken
Aceounting 1, numbers need have no terrors
for him now.

          

PHOTOGRAPHERS
Special rates to' Students

College

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
- ~ Phone Sac. 692.

       

 

.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

WANDERERS ARE CHAMPIONS

 

Wanderers are Champions

By a third win in the City League Foot-.
ball Series, the Wanderers are now champ:
ions. The game at Studley on last Saturday
afternoon was the best exhibition of the
season and veteran footballers say that tho
second half was amongst the fastest and hard
fought they had ever witnessed. It was in
this half that Dal played rings around their
opponents; in facet it can be said in all fair
ness to the winners that the Tigers had tho
edge throughout the entire game, the breaks
being largely in favor of the champions.

The first half, though not as fast and interesting as the second, was keenly contested and
well played.

The first try was made by B, MeCoy of the
Wanderers who throughout , played an ex.
cellent game. Repeating the performance of
his brother in the previous game, he got clear
at the Dal twenty-five yard line and he
placed the try behind the posts; this was
easily converted by Lilly. Lane soon after.
wards made the second try from exactly tho
same position. It was not cotverted.

MeLean and Baird as in the previous game
played a perfect front line scrim game and
Fabie Bates, flying quarter, was gaining
great stretches and passing to the half line
at the opportune moment; the half line also
displaying skillful combinaion, especially
Capt. Monte who was set on vietory for his
team. ‘

But in some unseen manner the Reds were
bound to break away and: Lane for a second
time went over for a try, receiving the ball
from B. MeCoy in almost exactly the same
territory as in the first two trys. Again the
try was directly behind the posts and again
Lilly converted.

Périod ended 13-0 and ‘the Dab bleachers
noticably. becoming blue.

But the second half had a different story to
tell. From the moment Haslam, by a long
punt, sent the ball out of touch near the
Wanderers line, just after the kick off, things
began to happen. This kick was followed by
a scrim, the ball came out clear, Bates passed
to Haslam, he to McInnes for the first Dal
try. Haslam easily converted. Dal was now
away ; the scrim was working as rarely a
serim has been seen to work and the halves
were at their best. The ball went out to
_ Gushue on the end who went over the line.
The Dal bleachers were in an uproar, but the
referee ruled no try.

- Due to repeated misbehavior on the part: of

heelers, Haslam got an oppo
i kick from a fairly advantageous
= won, Snes. Dal three more

ate hes wa ie? ae? : AR : ;

 

 

Girls’ Sports

 

The first game of the Basketball] Leage which
were played on Monday evening: Oct. 20, may
be*said to have begun with a slip. The condition of the floor may have detracted from
the swiftness of the game but not from the
general interest and enthusiasm. In fact the
Manager was obliged to play eight teams instead of the four she had planned to play.

It has been decided to keep the period on
Monday evenings for regular League games
when teams chosen by the Manager will play.
On Thursday evenings there will be a general
practice for everyone who wishes to come. The
Friday afternoon period will nut be used for
several weeks. Watch the notice boards and
if you wish any information on the subject
speak to Manager Mabel Borden.

for a certain touch. After a hold-up on
account of injuries to B. McCoy (during
which Dr. Fabie gave him walking lessons)

.the Wanderers, after a supreme effort, land
ed the ball well down into the Tigers area and
Hunter seored a try which was not converted.
This was soon followed by a similar act on the
part of R. MeCoy (faint but fearless after

injuries) who got the ball on a misdirected ~

pass from a Dal man. Lilly converted.

But the game was not yet over and after
eombination MacOdrum to Halsam to MeInnes the latter again scored. This try was
not converted. Just before time» Haslam
figured in a dual play—a try and convert.

Game ended, score standing 21—16, the
Wanderers Cit yLeague Champions.

The line up :—

Dalhousie :

Forwards—McLean, Baird, Elliot, MeCurdy, J. Sutherland, D. Sutherland, Tupper.

Halves—MacOdrum,
Haslam (Capt).

Quarters—Bates, Beardsley, Slipp.

Fullback—K. Jakeman.

 

From Six to Sixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire for greater
athletic accomplishment are the boys who

IP
   

Com to

CRAGG. ae CO. it

BARRINGTON 87.
. _— ica

 

MeInnes, Gushue.

Seconds Win, 8—0

The standing in the Intermediate City
League Series is now 2—1, Dal’ second teaia
again defeating the Wanderers on Saturday.

These games are creating almost as much
interest as the Senior ones and Dal’s Second
team is the best of present years and should
easily win the series.

‘‘Pasty’’ Miller starred on Saturday and
accounted for the first try which was converted by Hogan. Langstroth, who also played a great game made the seeond try. The
game was kept pretty well in the Red’s
territory and in the second half they were
foreed to touch for safety several times.

A win next Saturday will make Dal the
champions and will help to make up for the
defeat of the Senior team.

Dal line up :—

Forwards—Coleman, Bliss, Hogan,
field, Hebb, Grierson, Harrington.

Halves—MoDenald, Wood, Smith, Jackson.

Quarters—MecQuarrie, Miller, Langstroth.

Fullback—Piercey,

Win
Game Protested

 

Dal has protested Saturday’s game on
ground that one player had both feet in touch
and the linesman had his flag up, immedlately before the second try.

The First Kick

~

 

‘Football is a bloody and murdering
game not fit for the Sabbath or any other
day. 9?

_Stubbes

‘‘Anatomy of Abuses in England”
1590.

 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
    
    
    
   
    

    
  

Scotts Men’s Wear

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Headquarters for Dal. Boys

A splendid stock of furnishings of all
kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats and
Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suit_ cases and Bags.

 

   

 
   
     
   
    
  

  
  

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

 

  
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

| | comoame. =e Her First Visit . oer OP

 

 

 

 

OTHES foe AT She was quite alone, but still it was day, _A University is a “‘Cleuring house of
| THE COLLEGES She could quite look after herself you would Jdeas.’” How many of the new men accept
| . 4 say, ra | this definition? How many of the older

SUITS, OVERCOATS AND And-yet she looked full seared. students experience the truth of it?
| FURNISHINGS There are two ways in whieh studerts
7 peelh Slowly and thoughtfully she*walked down eres have "5 opportunity . of
| To Please The College Man. the street gg ig ta sl ec ey rl cm
| | . - Hoping that somebody soon she would meet, ene “a — oe a

. mie ee 1 any | and the 8S. ©. A. Study Groups. In the
W. F e. PAGE , Tt Qe 8 ee te former, you will have the opporvunity of pre
senting your ideas on trifling topics or

provincial and Dominion problems. In the

| latter your interest in religious, social, nat
i b saw ) ; ' naa .

| HALIF AX oh wan hie she feared. ional and international problems will ° find
, | expression,

| Then all in‘a flash her courage returned ‘“Sodales’’ expects every Dalhousian to

All her former dread she immediately take an active part in debating. The S.C.A.
spurned expects every student interested in problems,
ye

2 : —local, national and _ international ,—-to join
Dalhou S1e Her head from fright was cleared. - fe C < fie

She boldly entered the barber’s den; See such leaders as H. Hamilton, Sid GilStudents Walked proudly past the rows of men. ehrist (Med). Blenus Me::ton (Law).

And had her bright locks sheared: yr rrr biey
“‘Bob.”’ Professor. MacMeenan (in English 8).

She came to the place and faced it with awe,

Cor. George and Barrington Sts. - Then walked quickly past and hoped no- |

 

 

 

WE EXCEL IN

Students’ Loose Leaf Books and ' “This Poetry was written in 1796 and refers.
other Students’ Supplies of : . to a great struggle of History. Mr. Davison,
all sorts. Dinner Table Assizes can you tell me to what I am referring?’’

 

Sika , alia Herbie (the big boy). Yes Sir, the war of
fon: Barry—‘‘Speaking about the Bevis case 48191
F r ank M. 0 N eill & Co. Ltd. reminds me that they. can’t hang a man with ‘“‘And still they gazed and still the wonder

 

160 GRANVILLE STREET a wooden leg in New. Brunswick now.’’ grew
Snodgrass—‘‘ Why ?’’ That one small (???)) head could carry all
Barry—'‘They have to hang him with a. jo knew:’’
» , Fope.:”

 

   

s You know the rest of
ALPHA; BET this Alphabet but won't
you learn the music from a music dealer’s
Le r e e n text book. It starts like this:—

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART
POETRY, FICTION, Ete. ntern

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

 
    

 

      
 

 

    
 

Also School and College Text f |
| Books. , | | | a
Commercial and Society Stationery. $ e ; ) ys ih’s: ce

| T C. All en | & Co. is a restaurant where ‘pure. dea of

: Ce lar, served at moderate prices. Light lunches.
124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N. S,
and Ice Cream are very popular here,

      
    

 

   

   

   
 
  

 

 

Bob Johnson's | | Colwell, Brothers
Two Barber Shops | {—— "=" ——
aM ol eo menarerens OTRAS oy,
FIRST CLASS SERVICE | iy _MEN’S e FURD ISH I oo

MAJESTIC THEATRE BUILDING AND |
COR. GEORGE AND BARRINGTON ors. |

|
|
|

      
