 

SeeenEencinnrnneennneeenmnnneendinedinn amma a

FOUNDED 1869

 

housie Gazette

No. —

 

HALIFAX, N. S., NOV. 12, 1924

 

Che Dalhousie Gazette

Founded 1869

One Dollar Per Year
D. R. Webster, B. A.

Issued Weekly
Editor-in-Chief

Associate Editors
Miss Anna Grant Miss Allison MeCurdy
R. F. Ross, B. A. P. T. Hickey, 8. A.
Faculty Editors

Miss K. Covert A. F. Macdonald

W. 8. Giichrist A. Munro
W. G. Dawson D. L Meany
Exchange Editor - - ~ D. O. Hebb

Miss Avis Marshall
George Morrison, B, A.
Miss Eleanor Barnstead
-..H, A .Davidson
J. A. Duniop, B,. A.

Personals and Social ~
Sports Editor Girls Sports ~ ~
Stall’ Artist - - Overseas Correspondent Pine Hill Reporter - ~ H. R. Norton, B, A,
Business Manager ae - <A. B. Morton, B. A.
52 QUINPOOL ROAD
Phone Sack. 813

EDITORIAL

Seema

The decision to have an open aii rink of
our own this winter has been warmly welcomed by the students. It will provide opportunity for the students to become better
acquainted and freer access to the two best
winter sports, skating and hockey. It is also
a much more efficient expenditure of our skating allotment.

 

The failure of our football team to win the
city championship was a disappointment to
everybody. At the same time we know that
our boys did their best and that this was an
off year for Dalhousie. After all we were
olarlen football for the game’s sake and our
boys are to be congratulated on their work
There was not a game that was.slow to watch
or that was not keenly contested and there
is no doubt that the best team won. We con
atulate the Wanderers. The second team
owever, saved the laurels for Dalhousie by
winning the Junior Championship and Dalhousie is proud of them.

What has become of the ite club? If
anything is to be done this year it is time
some action was being taken. Mr. Baxter and
Mr. Sedgewick should give the students an
outline of their on |

 

The Gazette exitits primarily for the students. What is and in future will be, depends
entirely on you. At present the work is beean s, This should

 
 
  

   

; i oe
ap at , X
Pili mh

~*~ r
Pa’ * ge
fag M

 
 

rau YS “iil Lit oy Fe

; . Pi as
i ao 1
| i singe : poe
A dt em ts, aid ea ol a 8h eae +b
f Tahu A eee 4
i 4 o ;* wd

 

 

T) Se ae nee Ae

» i
Le ae .
‘ - =.
bee sno
oe a

CORRESPONDENCE

(THE GAZETTE assumes no responsibility for
sentiments expressed in this column. . Correspondence is weleomed and limited to five
hundred words).

Dear Mr. Editor:

As regards a motion made at a recent meeting of Sodales Debating Society, in which
the mover wishes to change the place for debates from the Forrest Building to Studley,
perhaps the opinions of a Studleyite on the
matter would not be entirely unweleome.

The basis of this motion appears to the
writed to be entirely without foundation.
since in all of the arguments brought out in
the resolution, not one of the:n seems to carry
an atom of weight. One never thinks that
in holding the meetings of Sodales at Studley
it will eneourage the Shirreff Hall girls to
appear in larger numbers. Surely if the
girls from the Hall were at all interested they
would not object to ‘valking a little distance
to the thriving and pleasing atmosphere cf
the Forrest Buliding. In any ease the writer
must not forget that only about one-half of
the Dalhousie girls stay at Shirreff Hall and
that the girls, as a whole, are a minority in
the college. Therefore. why eater to a minority? The Munro Room is in a more central
position in the city than is Studley, and if
the mover is out to please the fair sex, let
him also take into account the town girls.
with whom, no doubt, he is more or less
familiar.

Mr.’ Grant also thinks that it is an added
attraction for students to be 4mong familiar
surroundings. Here again he does not seem
to realize that Studley is not the only part
of the college to be considered, and that there
are some three hundred students, studying at
the Forrest Building and its surrounding
auxiliaries, and comprising nearly one-hal:
of the total number of students registered at
Dalhousie. Besides, although our surroundings at Studley are familiar, yet being in an
attitude of recreation would we say also that
they are pleasant? I.think not, at least to
most of us, who spend some of our hardest
working days there. Let us look for our
recreation elsewhere, especially at the Munro
Room, a place specially set apart for college
activities not on the calendar.

There has been a feeling, no doubt, among

tudleyites that the lawyers predominate in,
[Peet les Society, and that the rest of the

See ee i cy
AA ivias

   
  
 

  
 
 
 

nk it

 

 

EXCHANGES

 

The Xaverian has become a weekly paper
and has therefore suffered somewhat in literary content.
the merits of the weekly college paper. St.
F’, X. has decided for it; and if students will
write, there is no reason why the weekly
should not be as literary as the monthly magazine.

On the other hand, MeGill has decided that
in this, their Daily is unsatisfactory, and this
year there is a new MeGQill Daily Literary
Supplement; intended to encourage and _ to
urge the writing of English in free verse and
radical prose. To quote:

It raises again the question of

‘The Literary Supplement is based on the
assumption that there are a dozen students at
McGill who have the ability and the inelination to write down some of their observations
and reflections on life and letters. ... We
shall not promise our readers a staid and conservative view. . . but we offer a place where
those who desire to do so may write freely
on... . taste, however unorthodox. .
Orthodoxy will also be permitted so long as
it is cleverly done, but we are among those
who would rather err brilliantiy than platitudinize respectably.’’

It is an ideal; a high one. The editor and
his dozen faithful have written, at least, most
entertainingly ; their unorthodoxy is mild, and
hardly heresy.

We acknowlege also, with thanks: Varsity,
Sheaf McGill Daily, Argosy Weekly, Gatcway, Natural Resources, East and West, Dearborn Independent, Payroll, Presbyterian Wiiness and Western U. Gazette.

We congratulate Mr. Gerald Teed on being
chosen Rhodes Scholar for New Brunswick.
King’s and Dalhousie may well be proud of
him.

to the lawyers who, having the greatest interest‘: and need for debating, are only too
willing to encourage it among the other students and have done so in/the past.

Taking the arguments together, I do not
think there is any material 01 moral signifieance in holding Sodales debates at Studley,
nor is there a single reason why it should be
more advantageous there than elsewhere. In
short, we are obliged to come to the inevitable

eonclusion that Mr. Grant is attempting to

gain for himself some little nanan te and
te Nac Be clteet th
ate SHAR A. ER

hua a | ae

 

‘ sof 7 ; ;
FES Pee ere’

ify

re

‘ =
page t : ays ,
ros ; = Eee a4

  
 

j ‘
t h
te

e Sewn ‘

A mem rein Ba

=

na

 

Labor Party is Sustained in First Session of Pine Hill Parliament.

 

‘And still they watched and still the woa
ON ee eee Oe mm

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

them worthy followers of their eloquent leader. They were supported by George MacIntosh and the address was attacked by Andy
Munroe and Charlie MacLelan of the Con
But Jes’ Wait ’Til: Next Saturday

“When I was a boy,” said the graduate of
naughty nine, “we had only two teams, jun
der grew, servative party and Duncan MacMillan and jor and senior, in the various sports. Now I
That one small head could carry all he Maurice Armstrong of the Liberal party. see they have bantam, and juvenile and junior
oer * A division was called on the motion and nq intermediate ail senior.” '

So the members of the Pine Hill Mock
Parliament were amazed and astounded as
the Premier, John Angus Nicholson, the
‘‘Mighty Atom’’ of the Labour Party, with
flowing eloquence swayed the Parliament at
will, and with weighty words declared rules
of parliamentary procedure that dare not be
transgressed. As a consequence the Labour
Party weathered the political storm during
the first session in Parliament, proving that
they are worthy parliamentarians as well as
successful election campaigners. Much credit
is due to the Conservative Party for the successful session. Led by their old ‘‘war horse “’
Wm. MacOdrum, who with Scotch canniness
recognized the need of stable government,
they supported the government, and on division they refused to unite with the Liberals
and defeat Labour.

Parliament opened with the Labour party
on the Government benches. Around the
Premier were grouped his cabinet ministers:
Minister of Finance, Homer Norton; Minister of Justice, Rod MacLeod; Minister of Interior, Arthur Forbes; Minister of Publie
Works, Dannie MacCuish; Minister of Trade
and Commerce, R. C. Robb; Minister of Agriculture, Edwin Johnson, Secretary of State,
Sam Profitt, Postmaster General, D. M.
Grant; Militia and Defence, J. A. Harrison; ;
Railways and Canals, William Moran; Cus.
toms, Bert Moore; Inland Revenue, George
MacIntosh; Marine Fisheries, William Richardson; Labour, John Morrison, Ministers
without portfolio, W. C. Harrison, H. Barnaby, H. Vickerson, J). Sutherland. J. A.
Jardine was the clerk and Thomas Humphrey was sergeant-at-arms. Jarvis MaCurdy
was elected the Speaker of the House.

The Speech from the Throne was read by
Professor Wilson of Dalhousie University.
It was a masterpiece of wit displaying well
the talents of the Premier and Council. Parliament groaned with assent to the reference
to the Dark Ages through which the province
of Pine Hill had passed... .. the supplemen:
tary exams—through which many citizens
had come one way or another. Reference was
made to the period of prosperity now being
enjoyed. The crops had been especially
good—the four potatoes raised in the Pine

the Conservatives refrained from. voting.
This allowed the Government to carry the
motion.

The Minister of Public Works, Dannie
McCuish, then introduced a Bill to establish
a Roof Garden at Pine Hill.

This Bill was attacked by “Jigger’’ Grant,
the “Stormy Petrel” of the Liberal party. With
a withering flood of gigantic expletives he
pointed out the moral danger in such a measure and hurled an indictment on the Minister
of Public Works, the Premier and the Labor
party in general. .After continued heckling
and after being called to order many times.
Mr. Grant used up the time allotted to him
and was forced to take his seat. After further
discussion William MacOdruny of the Conservative party moved that the Bill be given
the six months’ hoist. This motion carried. A
Bill with regard to foodstuffs was introduced
by the Minister of the Interior, but owing to
the lateness of the hour discussion on it had to
be postponed and on a motion of the Premier
the Parliament adjourned.

DELTA GAMMA

Those marshmallows tasted pretty good,
didn’t they, girls? A good many of them melted and were lost in the fire, but the majority
were disposed of in another way. a

At the business meeting it was moved, seconded, and carried unanimously, that push-pins
be bought by Delta Gamma to be used for notices in the girls’ cloak room, as the authorities
objected to red stickers. Miss Edith Macneill
was appointed to see about the erection of a
notice board.

The girls formed themselves into three companies, and acted charades. They did so well
that even the readers in English composition

 

_might have been puzzled.

After the charades, the walls of Shirreff Hall
rang with the sound of “won’t you come up,
come up” and other Dalhousie songs.

The marshmallows were evidently just appetizers, judging by the speed with which the
big piles of toast and the:cocoa disappeared.

Everyone enjoyed herself thoroughly, and
even the most disdainful of the Pine Hillers
would have been glad to attend, had they been
allowed. |

    

Majestic Cigar Store,
IS WELL KNOWN

      
    
 
 
 
  
  

And the remark indicated the progress of
organized sport in the last few years. There
is scarcely a man nowadays who is not an
authority on some game or other, except perhaps the fellow who knows just a little bit
about them all.

Has the interest in sport something to do
with the increasing competition in business;
with the rush which sweeps past the man who
is not willing to take part in it? Perhaps.
Certainly the spirit of rivalry and dogged
determination is being instilled into children
at an age never before thought of. ‘fhe business and professional man of the future, if
he maintains the spirit of the child of today,
will find the battle of life no figure of speech.

The graduate of naughty-nine whose remark
started the discussion added a forceful example to point his statement. He told of
coming upon a little tously-haired youngster
sitting on a door-step crying as if his heart
was broken. The child could not have been
more than six or seven years old at the most.
“What's the matter little chap?” asked the
graduate. Looking up through his tears the
youngster sobbed, “St. Aidan’s beat us—boo
hoo.” As the older man stooped over to cheer
him up the urchin’s face brightened, and rubbing his eyes with one grimy little hand he
used the other one to emphasize his point as
he explained, “But jes’ wait ’till next Saturday!”

Varsity

Med Dance

The evening of Nov. 3rd, was one long to
be remembered by all those who were present at the very delightful dance given by the
“Meds” at Dalhousie.

The room was beautifully decorated with
yellow and black streamers, the walls covered with most gruesome looking folk, even a
few Wanderers were represented in encoun
ters with some Dalhousian or other. The ford
car of last year was there again and still filled with its many occupants. The orchestra
was raised in the middle of the floor, and
seated on a chair, dangling from the ceiling,
above them was the same skeleton who attends all “med dances” and he hadn’t forgotten his bottle of hooch, but alas it appeared
to be empty.

The chaperons were Mrs. A. G. Nichols,

 

 

 

The engineering society have been wearing
spats ever since the Prince of Wales opened
the season by wearing them at Toronto two
weeks ago.

The University fashion leaders (the engineers) have decreed that the baseball moustache (three out all out) will be the mode till
the close of 1924. This protective measure
was adopted as a safeguard against leapyear proposals which are expected to increase
as the term draws to a close.

That Engineers’ dance is going to be a
real thing all right. The Gods in council
were propitious consequently there is one good
humdinger of a time to look forward to next
term.

This will be a great inducement in order
that they may be enabied to attend this function.

No, Arthur, | see no reason why you or any
other student should not ask your lady friends
to accompany you on the Engineers visit to
St. Margaret’s Bay next Saturday. A power plant is a work of ingenuity and skill and
is of general interest. | am sure that your
brother engineers will be as pleasant as possible to you and your partner. Who is she,
anyway?

 

MATHEMATICIANS ATTENTION!

 

Axiom |. Things which one doubles the
same thing one equal to one another.

A bottle 1-2 full—a bottle 1-2 empty

multiplying both sides by 2
A bottle full—a bottle empty
like Heligoland it does

The aid of Calculus is permissable in the
solution of the above. Particulars regarding
the solution will be given in next issue of
the Gazette.

 

At the Dental Society meeting held on Nov.
1st in Room 29 the business of the Society
was transacted and the various activities for
the year were outlined.

 

 

“Mild and

Extra Fine”

  

The question of holding a Pental dance
was brought up. After some discussion the
matter was laid over until a later date.

The Senior year have the Infirmary to
themselves this year, and while the boys miss
the opportunity to lord it over a Junior class
and issue weighty advice (based on one year's
practice) to an awestruck and admiring
throng, they appreciate the fact that the
demonstrators have consequently more time to
devote to the smaller number and operating
facilities are much better,

Tht inereased clinical facilities incident
with the opening of the Mass. Health Centre
affords an added advantage and two of the
Senior year operate there two days each wetk.

Without violating the ethics of the pro.
fession, the writer wishes to call the atten.
tion of new students, who may not be familiar with the working of the Infirmary, to the
fact that they have here a good opportunity
tc have their Dental needs attended to at a

 

 

% sea liielcaaiaa tal arial til esta i asians —— ,
JENSEN & MILLS CO. LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
119 YOUNG ST.

THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES

 

PRICES RIG H T — QUALITIES
RIGHT—SERVICE RIGHT

 

Drygoods, Millinery, Ready-to
Wear and Ladies Tailoring

 

 

/, BIRKS

     

 

 
 
 
  

 
 

Hill garden. Legislation would be pass- ,
‘di f garden, a sub- 0 Mrs. J. C. MacDougall and Mrs. S. R. John- Athletics were brought up first, and after : !
ro ‘aa - be too, haad tee some heads, COLLEGE STUDENTS son who all looked very charming and made some bitterly contested elections the follow- Bee oe aan hs Bice ee ~ *
ith wW . A most affable hostesses. There were about ing managers were put in:—_ mY . a
were to be replaced = a Cs ies two hundred and fifty couples present and also gegaey Jolisison of the basket ball trade our way but they haven’t done much a
change of food was to be p ; many members of the faculty. All looked ; manager yet. How about a little co-operation, Jehi Sil
be taxed and collared, and a radio ied a team; Mott Nicholson, volley ball. and Danny . Ramm? | ver
were to be tax . :. very attractive while having ‘“Presystolic Sent Get tan aa 3 The Latest Novelties From
was to be installed in the dining room Thrills”, “Auricular Flutters”, “Knee Jerks” haere ny» ape pemdie Mrs eri ee —X Ray, orlds Best Markets
announce the departure of the fish from the “Gastric Crisis”, “Friction Rubs” etc to the Aubrey Tupper, the football manager, re. ' The Ww | .
foreign climes that we might be prepared to of the Hutchinson Five Orchestra ported that several workouts had been held ~~ Dan Meaney—Say, Coughlan, are Gall HENRY BIRKS & SONS
TS oved and Gordon Frame — Sy cena emeiianes and ee _ Stones of any commercial value? | sacs vg i
. 7 the right spirit, things could be expeete? —- Coughlan— Why sure, th DI
eet haben in reply _— Speech | Z 1S HOUMNS | “Ese eats oo) orgs STAN A oh Le » Breen and use them fo Pe point i 4: SY
4 epeec es proved | " anes wee veeee slew Wwereree er ay Rh ew SHE ee eae EB Se fm ; Pei
from the throne. ‘Their a ly “did things up at sty! sBAGAEROL  RanNa es, MI,» SRE TY “TATE A a PT SES, | a 3 celrsafiigtest aeeiiieoail

 

v<

   

Lyfe .
ae : 3 ;
yes. 0 el! Sabet a Obi leek = Uhh tag ech
a Naa at an dp
he Laan gh ae rw Eh talr's al. bey f : f
7 a oe Say : ;
aa aE 1h 2.
a ve YF. oat.

) SS

  

 
 

4 THE DALHOUSIE. GAZETTE.

 

Shirreff Hall

 

Last week we discovered one cavalier in
our midst. During the past week many more
hitherto obscure knights have ridden out into
the open.and declared themselyes on the side
of protection to the fair. The men in Arts

and Science have rallied around our banner’

and declared that if woman wants prominence
in public life it is hers. They will see to it,
and as a primary offering behold ‘Sodales”’
near at hand at Studley where the women
of Shirreff Hall may speak with greater freedom than in the Munro room, There they are
sadly conscious of those ghosts of the past
who lived and poured forth their eloquence
at a time when woman was relegated to the
needle and the kitchen. During the last few
years how the girls have shivered in the Munro room as those phantoms stalked by, nose
in air, utterly disdainful of the co-ed. But
these days may soon be over. And with such
champions to plead the cause for us, we feel
sure that the Senate will give Sodales a room
at Studley. Although—come to think of it—
why wouldn’t the ‘reception room at Shirreff
Hall do? We'd like that!

One night last week a midnight party on
the first floor broke up by giving a silent
Dalhousie yell. We want to know why it was
that Miss Lowe came up to find out who was
moving the trunks around.

Talk about ghosts! Last Friday night the
spirits of Hallowe’en flitted around the Hall.
Strange rustlings and whisperings were heard,
especially in the rooms of the Sophs who
were then jazzing gayly at Bedford. Spirit
after spirit stealthily followed one another,
‘each leaving some token of its visit. And
‘when the dancers finally climbed the steps to
bed, what a sight greeted their weary eyes!
Ghosts met ‘hem at their thresholds, and
turning on the light, a ghastly color flooded
their room. Horrors! Weird shapes hanging
from the lights, others reclining on the beds
and chairs! Terrified shrieks and yells of
dismay showed that Allison McCurdy and Kay
Smith still had some life left. When at last,
with sighs of relief, they flung themselves onto the bed—Crash! The bed collapsed and
they gracefully slid onto the floor. Gingerly putting in their feet a second time, they
felt prickly sensations. What next! Oh, nothing to worry about—only toast crumbs several
.inches.thick..At last, after many weary hours
plotting revenge, they dropped off to sieep.
But one important detail was missing ir their
plans. Who was responsible for the mess?
Anna Grant? Irene Madill? Edna Mingie?
They are still wondering.

The infallible committee engineering the
Shirreff Hall dance has completed its final
arrangements and given its last instructions.
There is nothing to do but count the hours
until the guests begin to arrive. Pine Hill
-may now cease its solicitous attentions and
enjoy the rewards of its tactful endeavors.
We wonder whom Alice Atherton is asking
_ to the darice tonight. Judging from her own
ts we should think it would be .very
: ult for het to discriminate among the
throng of admirers who nightly besiege her at
: | door’ and telephone. , teres PE pie

MEDICAL NOTES

 

We hate to say, ‘‘ We told you so,” but we
did predict that-the Med. Dance would be
the best of the season, and it. was.

The weather man was in a particularly
nasty mood on the evening of Monday, Nov.

“3rd, but his frowns were in vain, for despite
the ineclemency of the atmosphere, the youth
and beauty, bud and blossom of our college,
from unsophisticated freshmen and freshettes
to worldly-wise final year Meds, hied them
forth undaunted and turned their steps gymwards, Having arrived at this stately edifice, where all ‘preparations for the oceasion
had carefully been made, the wind and sleet
without served but to add new charm to the
scene within—the gay streamers of gold and
blaek, the softened lights, the quaint skeletons
in their various life-life postures. On the
gorgeous dais with its pillars of many-hued
maples, situated in the centre of the hall, sat
the orchestra, and from thence proceeded entrancing strains which warmed the heart and
stirred the body to motion and rhythm.

So passed the evening. From the moment
the first couple entered beneath the flowing
green and white canopy until the last strains
of music had died away, it was a scene of
happiness. Abundant eredit is due the dance
committee. They worked hard and well and
succeeded in making their faculty dance just
as good if not better than those of previous
vears.

It is with pride and pleastre that medical
students at Dalhousie note the election of Dr.
(;. H. Murphy to the executive of the American College of Surgeons. Dr. Murphy is a
member of the Dalhousie Faculty of Medheine, being Associate Professor of Clinical
Surgery. He is also a graduate of the Dalhousie Medical College, so that this honor to
Dr. Murphy is an honor also to his Alma
Mater.

In order to stimulate class discussion on

“questions taken up in his lectures on Pharm
seology, Prof. O. S. Gibbs introduced a new
departure from the established order of
things by organizing a class debate one day
recently. The question chosen was ‘‘ Alcohol:
A stimulant or a depressant?’’ We venture
to state that this is one of ‘he most hopeful
moves that we have seen sinee coming to Dalhousie towards enabling students to get as

DISPENSING==
| MacLeod, Balcom Ltd. |

Druggists

  

   

_ 7
Tier MwA ©
ellen! AIF as = Sing

    
  
 

  
  
   
  

.*
~
Rk
Ss
A

: Ss F

full a value as possible from the time they
spend in class. This qiestion, at any rate,
was taken, up enthusiastically and thoroughly
by the class, and a large proportion of the
class took an active part in tHé discussion.
Some, to be stre, had an intimate personal
acquaintance with the subject in question
which gave them a decided advantage over
their less fortunate fellows, but all were interested. vas)

Prof. Gibb’s idea of an occasional class discussion on some subject of special interest
might be adopted with profit by more than
one professor of the Medical faeulty. The
feeling of the students so far as we ean sve
is unanimous approval of this scheme.

Medicine played her first game in the Ia.
terfaculty football league cn Thurday, Nov.
6th, her opponents being the Arts men, who
had had a great deal more practice but who
made rather a weak showing against the
erack Med team. The game _ resulted in a
draw, with a seorg of 3—3, but the general
opinion is that the Medicals had the better
of the play, their half-line especially working
beautifully. It was a hard fought struggle.
however, and ‘‘Pasty’’ Miller was at one
time noticed to be not only eompletelv
breathless but also ‘‘pantless.’’

—W. S. G.

A A J 4 Shhh Sst LAAs Shbbetita

     
 

UML ALAA AMMA hhh

       
 

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
Three Phones

   
   

disisshthithtdididdiiiiiidhjiigiennen nw

(Ads

| CutFlowers, Bouquets

and all Floral Work

 
 
 

 
      
 

Dalhousie Note Paper
| Die stamped in two color erest
Also |

Note books, Swan pens, Eiversharp Penceils and high classed stationary of all

       
     
         
       
   
   
  
   
   

 

a
* J 9 hoe D ee
Rares ghar
ft Chee kr? J - ¥
, Ae <a a f
7 a “4 ey ee | 7

  

 

‘he doesn't mind his

poms co
i; 4 5 - - ,
a q 7 8

mee ee ee eee.

... PINE. HILL POST..

‘‘It’s always safe to swat a fly
Unlegs' he’s ona raisin pie.’’

Our eminent biologist and authority on
bugs, R. C. Rbb, has verified this dictum at
the dinner table. He says that it spoils the
flavor when you can’t discover what. happened to the fly.

‘Eddie Murray spent a year in Labrador
and he says that the climate is mild up there
in comparison with that of Room 33 ‘when
Brodie Taylor gets the two windows open to
their fullest extent. Eddie has to take the
ink bottle to bed with him to keep it from
frezing. |

‘‘Chuck’’ Sullivan met with a serious disappointment the other night. In response to
a telephone message that his best girl from
Cape Breton was at the Waverly Hotel and
desired his presence, immediately he made en
elaborate toilet and proceeded thither with
all speed. Alas! It was only a base rumor.
‘‘Chuck’’ says that the anticipation was
glorious ‘‘though the event was dire.’’

During that period of strenuous exeitement
when everybody was getting ready for the
Med dance, it suddenly was rumored throughout the Residence that Edwin Johnstone had
lost his pants, i. e., those belonging to his tuxedo. Visions of a repetition of the scandalous crime of which ‘‘Jiggie’’ Grant was a
victim last year came to our minds. Sympathy was extended to Edwin and execration
heaped upon the perpetrator of the dastardly
deed. Finally after Edwin had turned his
face to the wall and wept copiously, Allie
Murchison came to the rescue and, patiently
and laborously clearing away the debris.
made his way to the closet und found there
the missing trousers tucked away under indescribable and unmentionable garments.

_ We must not omit stating tnat ‘‘Jiggie’’
Grant and Bob Seott have secured appointment to the Laundry Committee. It is pleasing to note that their vigorous campaign has
brought results and that at last they have
attained to this coveted position for which
they were so earnestly striving. , |

Jim Fraser is going home at Thanksgiving
to see the girl he left behind him. Jim wants
to announce to all Dalhousie girls that they

7 ee ee

   

 

- may as well give up trying to vamp him for

his heart is in Stellarton.
Doug Macdonald and Bill Outhit have been

trying to revive the Bachelors’ Union. They

would adopt as their motto:—‘‘A bachelor
is one who looks long and earnestly before he
leaps then stays where he is.’’ No one
who knows Doug or Bill ean accuse them of
10t faithfully carrying out in detail the first
part of their motto. |
We would like to remind Bill Firth that if
vacious spirits he will

vilf By |

ie seid

   

   

soon be as

 
   

=
} : ;
ji 2 2
i 1 K m Wy 7 é
‘ ; ’ !
j ee «a 4 i
A if = : : 4
ce oer Re . ai
{2 === === 4} Loree ,
y! > —— 4 . F
a i >
. =.
:
7
, . . ‘
+ is
i =
Wy | . ‘ T
‘ ye.

Seance erieeneeenentiinaneatinnatitaeemeeathicenan tatters ee ee oe

Poussiére

 

“Qu’est ce qui m’agite, tu dis, mon ami!”
repondit Paul 4 ma salutation, “et toi aussi,
tu me penses agité; maais tu ne sais pas se qui
vient de m/arriver.

“Eh bien! Je me trouve ce matin assis au
café. Il se peut que je songe 4 ma petite Lucille, je ne dis pas non, mais tout d’un coup
je vois ouvrir une porte au fond de la salle, et
la voilA qui entre. Elle semble fort pale, ma
petite, mais lorsque ses yeux rencontrent les
miens, la couleur lui monte au front et elle
s’assied seule 4 une table 4 l’autre bout de la
salle. Je ne puis le con.prendre, ce phénoméne. Je léve, et je vais doucement vers
sa table, et comme je m/arrétte derriére sa
chaise, je ne puis que penser qu’elle est bien
jolie.

Je m/’incline, et lui murmure 4 Voreille.
‘Chérie! ma chérie’ . . . . mais il n’y a personne 1A.”

Canora.

COMMERCE NOTES

 

Some party! Where did you land the chicken? How many cigarettes did you get?
Will there be another this year? Such was
the conversation heard in class Saturday morning.

A very pleasant and profitable evening was
spent on Friday, Oct. ’ist, when the Commerce
Society held a theatre party at the Orpheus
and was afterwards entertained with a Hallow’een dance at the home of Gerald Buckley.

The new commerce yell was heard in the
theatre for the first time and received great
applause. It would have been stil louder, but
some of the young men were so deeply interested in. their partners that they neglected
to lend their voices to the good cause.

Leaving the Orpheus at nine thirty we
journeyed to Victoria Road where at the home
of Mr. Buckley we spent a very enjoyable
evening. The Commerce Society wish to
thank Mr. and Mrs. Buckley for all their
trouble in providing one of the best class parties we have ever had. Perhaps the most
striking features of the party were the wonderful refreshments and the available parking
space which came in handy during the intermissions.

 

DALHOUSIE STUDENTS—

| Do you know that we have inaugurated a
service whereby YOU can have your
mending done regularly—as well as your
laundering?
This is particular benefit to students away
from home who are used to having
MOTHER look after their mending.
Our Mabents Sereien Will Attend to All
Buttons, Turn ‘Worn Cuffs on Ete.

     
 
  

  

 
   

   
  
   

_‘fHE°DALHOUSIE GAZETTE” 5

 

 

Take a tip from the cognoscenti and give
her Moirs Chocolates. It is the open
sesame to every girl’s affections—especially
the new Bridge Box that makes a dlightful
“fifth partner,”

MOIRS CHOCOLATES

Famous for Their Goodness

 

  

A. & W MACKINLAY LTD;

Stationers

A complete line of Manuscripts
Books in various bindings and
Loose Leaf Note Books kept in
stock. |

    
   
       
    

Depot for Swan and Parker Duofold
Fountain Pens

   

Eversharp & Duro-Point Pencils

  
 

137 GRANVILLE STREET

   

LLL LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL LL

Fall GLOVES
and CANES

are a “Kelly” specialty—which means
a full range of the latest and best at {
moderate prices. \

        

   

 

     

     

MLM hiihaliitidilititlas
GISPLIASSAAS ASS SAD AAAS AA ASG A SSS S Gi

 
   
    

7
>
‘

KELLY’S

LIMITED

GRANVILLE ST.

      
   

U-NEAT PRESSING
PARLORS

ORIGINAL BOB LEARY,
Manager |

Economize in your Pressing by buying »
Strip of Four Tickets for $2.00,

 

     

   
 

 

  
 
 
 

DALHOUSIE VS. EDGEHILL

 

On Saturday, November 8, the town of
Windsor was honored by the presence of the
Dalhousie Girls’ Ground Hockey team, the
occasion being a match between Edgehill and
the Dal girls. At eleven o’clock with Miss
MacQueen, physicial instructess at Edgehill!
as referee, the players began the battle. The
game which kept up the interest of the spectator to the very last, resulted in a score of
five-one.’ in favor of Edgehill. After the
game the girls and Miss Lowe, who acted as
chaperone for the party, were the guests of
Edgehill at dinner. Accompanied by a number of rooters the players returned home on
the afternoon train.

The line-up was as follows :—

Forwards—K. MacLennan, E. Maeneill, A.
Clark (centre), K. MacDonald, J. MacKenzie. |

Half-backs—A. Wilson, H. Robertson (cer.tre), A. FitzRandolph.

Full-backs—K. Holman, H. MacKean.

Goal—M. Eriksen. :

Spares—M. Crocker, J. Dresner.

THE GIRLS IN SPORT

 

On Friday afternoon, October 28, an interesting practice match took place between the
Halifax County Academy and the Dalhousie
teams in ground hockey, The score was 6-0
in favour of Dalhousie. Prof. Macneill refereed.

On Wednesday, November 12, a practice
match is being arranged between Dalhousie
and the Halifax Ladies’ College. This is to
be followed by a regular match on Friday
after which the H. L. C. girls are to be entertained at Shireff Hall by the Dalhousie
team.

Basketball practises have not been so frequent of late owing to a large number of social functions in the University. From now
on the girls are going to work hard at this
game, as the League has been continued.

Manager Mabel Borden is also trying to
arrange several games with outside teams to
be played before Christmas.

  

Furnished Rooms

Mader's Cafe

i 15 Granville Street

Phone Sack. 1391

 
    

#

+ 45
& 7 an

  
 

   

Lobsters our Special Er
Best Midstay,pinaiter it

  

THE DALHOUSIE, GAZETTE —— |

MEDS AND ARTS TIE

 

Interfaeulty football got away in a whirl
of mud on last Thursday morning when the
Meds and Arts punished each other to the
tune of 3—3.

Neither team showed up as well as the fans
expected for it had heen noised abroad that
both teams were easily a match for the Senior team. However, the bleachers are promised better football when Law and Dentistry
antagonize each other in the near future.

The first half of the game was quite uneventful excepting for a singular and spectacular run by ‘‘Ted’’ Chipman. A stiff cool
breeze from the westward as well as a continuous rush of medicinal hot air from the
side lines was blowing against Arts, and they
were kept well within their own territory
for the whole period. The Medical scrim was
getting the ball out easily and the half line
were working well, but could not get over the
line. ‘‘Pee Wee’’ Cameron was the outstanding man for Medicine in this half and
played an excellent game.

In the second stage the Studley heroes had
the wind and used it to advantage. Soon
after the kick-off, Harrington, of Arts, scored
a pretty try. This was not converted.

Later, Wood succeeded in convincing Referee Tupper that he had scored for Medicine:
After hearing the case for both sides said
referee decided for Medicine. The score now
stood 3—3, with the territory about equally
divided and both teams working hard.

The referee complains of interference from
the managers of the opposing teams, who he
says, were positively disgusting in some of
their remarks to him.

Line-up :—

Medicine: — Forwards—M. MaeMillan, D.
MacMillan, MeEachern, Little, Morton, Jones,
Fultz. Quarters—Miller, Cameron, MeInnes.

‘Halves—Doull, Wood, Douglas, Townsend.

Full-back—Sullivan.

Arts: — Forwards — Grant, Stevenson,
Dunphy, Sedgewick, Godsoe, Harrington, Delaney. Quarters—Sperry, Thompson, Creighton. Halves—Miller, Chipman, Fraser, Rankin. Full-back—Piercey. | uctie

TC

| \
GYM VESTS
in the college colors have just arrived,

they are splendid value at $1 75 each.
SLEVELESS SWEATERS

all colors, have been marked at special |

prices for quick sale, $2.00 and 
You will surely need one to wear to the |}

foot ball matches and skating = ——s_ |

x

PHINNEYS_—

    

Scotts Men’s Wear

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Headquarters for Dal. Boys
A splendid stock of furnishings of all

kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats and
Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suitcases and Bags.

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

DON’T FORGET WE’RE ON THE
CORNER

 

 

From Six to Sixty,--
the hoys who thrill with desire for greater
uthictic accomplishment are the boys whe

EQUIPMENT

pick

 

Com«: to

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD

BARRINGTON ST.

FOR ANYTHING YOU NEED IN
RVERY UINE OF SPORT

CLIMO

PHOTOGRAPHER
501 BARRINGTON ST.

Phone S. 1395

Now is the time to have |

your Group Photoyraphs made.

Special Rates to Students

HIGH CLASS BARBER

Up to date Shop, with four chairs,
and first class barbers in attendance.

Special Bobbing Parlor for Ladies

2 by EE OO a. a eee PMS

 

Gi SUC OR, He». Site
frre mash - oh a =a LS

 

:
'
:
(t,t . 7 y '
: $
‘ i
’ / t j ‘

re i i

- ‘ A, ; ? - ; t 1 4
" z
:

Anne *

“4 Wed ~? ¢
~~ om
oe 4 a

“THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

DALHOUSIE 15, MONCTON 0.

MONCTON, N. B., Nov. 10—Dalhousie 15, Moncton 0.

By three clean trys and as many
converts’ Dal defeated Moncton in that
Town on Monday.

The first try was made soon after the
kick-off by McInnes who received the
ball from MacOdrum who had carried
it for some distance by a pretty rum.
Jakeman easily converted from a difficult position.

This half was fast throughout, Bates
playing his best game of the season as
flying quarter, and fooling his unwary
opponents by a _ multitude of fake
passes. Although the half line whic:
was taken to Moncton had not practiced together they were playing a
great game and were receiving much
praise from the Moncton fans.

The second try was made by Langstroth on a pass from Bates who had
made a skilful run from almost centre
field. The try was placed directly beside the posts and Jakeman easily converted. The score now stood 10--6
ani the Moncton men were working
hard to keep Dal down, which they succeeded in doing for the rest of this
period.

For nearly the whole of the secon
half, the ball was kept within Moncton’s territory, and only the persistent
blocking of the opposing forwards kept
Dal from rolling up a huge score.

 

. y Y
' i
a
j jes Z ad ,
é ‘TA WLG 7 ye e
ops as y ’ ‘
. es 5 o 2. = 5: — a thee se ¥rit p 4 TS wa
- am 2 tz F ae iy at fhe a ; .
ies PEERY Bie Bie Toe’ pet ay > ree Me ered. alia | Pe

  

7.
ae ee, oN
Pak ep ibn hm

“THE PACKAGE OF 20 WHICH HAS BECOME

However, the Dal outfit became
careless in their passes and runs and
Moncton forced them into their own
territory. . At no time, though, were
Moncton in a position from which they
could easily score.

Shortly before the end of the game.
Dalhousie were pressing their opponents hard, and after some pretty passing by the half line, Mclnnes again
went over for a try and again Jakeman
made a perfect convert.

Game ended 15—0.

The Dal squad are loud in their
praise of the treatment accorded thein
in Moncton and enjoyed their trip to
the full.

The line-up:—

Moncton—F orwards --- Rodd, Dunham, Montgomery’ Cook, Rogers,
Peake, Grant.

Halves—Thompson, Smith, Drunimond, Crowhurst.

Quarters — Coates, Charters, MeLean.

Full back—Dobson.

Dalhousie — Forwards — McLean.
Baird, Elliot, J. Sutherland, McCurdy,
D. Sutherland, Tupper.

 

Halves — MacOdrum, McInnes,
Jackson’ Beardsley.
- Quarters — Bates, Slipp, Langs‘troth. :
Jakeman.

 

Full back

JARITISHY

Hs

 
 

 
 
 
  
  

Oxford Boxers Coming to Canada

 

A team of boxers from Oxford university,
England, is preparing for a tour of various
colleges in Canada and the United States.
They have advance notices and matches scheduled at Toronto and Queens Universities. It
should be possible to bring these boxers to
Dalhousie where there are several students
who should be able to give the Oxonians as
good as they bring, besides keeping alive the
greatest of all sports, the manly art of self
defence. As “the Amateur gentleman said:

“For boxing is a manly game
And Britian’s recreation,
By boxing we shall raise our fame
‘Bove every other nation.”

In one of the most interesting Rugby games
of the season, the Wanderers defeated the snappy U. N. B. aggregation on Saturday afternoon Nov 8 to the tune of 18-13.

Don’t Buy Cheap Sooes

Why should you—when Wallace’s offer
exceptionally good shoes for hardly any
more !

Shoes with Snap—Dash—never failing
quality. Every pair built for service,
and wil hold their shape to the last.

Try them at
$7.50, $9. to $10

WALLACE BROS.,

523 Marrington St.

 

 

 
 

 

 

a

 

The third meeting of the Students’ Coun- |

cil was held in the Munro Room on Wednesday evening Nov 5. The first business before the meeting was the dance question. Applicattons were received front the Engineers,
Law Society and the Dental Society for dances directly after Xmas, After a heated discussion the first dance ‘was awarded to-the Engineers who applied for the 14:of January.:

A. B. Morton, chairman of the rink committee, made a report on the progress of his committee.’ The report met with the approval of
the Council ‘and a vote of $900 was made to
build and maintain’an open air rink. It is
understood the rink will be placed in the South
East corner of the Studley campus and will
be 200 x 80 feet.

The principle that the students of Kings and
Dalhousie shall continue to jointly participate
in athletic activities was also approved by the
Council.. Since the removal of Kings to Halifax there have been in operation provisional
agreements between the two student bodies by
which certain activities were carried on in
common and certain others were conducted
separately. After several conferences between
the officers of the student governments and

others, in which the Governors and the Senate of Kings and of Dalhousie were represented, it has finally been settled that in so far as
debating dramatic and literary societies are
concerned the students will conduct their work
separately, but in football, hockey and basketball as well as in the common use. of the football field and the gymnasium the students of
each college will join forces. The management will for the present vest entirely in the
Dalhousie Council.

The Council considered the application of
the D. A. A. C. for money, and permission to
send the senior football team to Moncton to
play there on Thanksgiving Day. At this point

. the discussion led into a heated exchange of

opinions as to the development and encouragement of atheletics within the University,
Mr. Bates, captain of the hockey team, felt
that there was not proper attention given to
the development of new material and the en
couragement of the. teams, This brought the

retort from the President of the Council that —
the fault did not arise in the Student’s Coun
_ cil which, he said, was a general executive and =

legislative body over the whole student body,
but the blame should be placed on the D. Ne

A. C. the officers and executive of which have |

  
     

for some years been leaving more ¢ :
of the active, management of the D. A. 4 4 &.
to the Students’ Couscil instead of actively

gaging in the problems of athletics’ which it
is their duty to do. The football team were

given the money to go to Moncton. |

It. is expected that ‘the Girls basketball
team will entertain a team from a Maine College early in the new year.

ee se ad sae vers. he ee ad
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

er eee

STUDENTS’ COUNCIL MEETING

J OKES —

"Irate Customer—‘“I bought a car from you
a week ago and you said if anything went
wrong you'd supply the broken parts.

Auto Salesman—‘“Yes, certainly.”

Irate Customer—“Then I'd like to get a
nose, a shoulder- blade and a big-toe.

 

X— "Does your girl know much about a

car?’
Y.—‘‘Good: heavens, no, she thinks you

should strip the gears to cool the engine.

 

A.—‘“‘The.Jews sell all the ice cream now.’
B.—"“What makes you say that?”
A.—“Well everyone | asks for ice cream

Cohens.”

 

Professor.—‘“Can anyone tell me what steel
wool is?”

Little Sammy—‘‘Sure: Steel wool is th
shearings from hydraulic rams.

 

Hel—‘‘Came near selling those old shoes today.

Haw—‘“How come?”

Hel—‘‘Had them half-soled.

 

Customer—‘"! want a couple of pillow-cases.”

Clerk—“What size?”

Customer—“I don‘t really know, but | take

a size seven hat.”

 

My girl is so dumb that she thinks all wheat
that sells for a dollar a bushel is Buckwheat.

The Green

AED.

 

 

sa) ea

is a restaurant where pure foods are

served at moderate prices. Light lunches |

and Ice 0 Cream are “ re here, |

 

453 cee N STREET
‘MEN’S FURNISHINGS |

s u % / ae | eee dy = % oe
“Bi et AT TBE OP fa OL To aI a aigg is Ss

 

CAPT

 

How oft I’ve watched a noble beast
Chained behind heartless steel,
Have seen him rush with force then reel
Against his bars. and yet at least
He was by God created.

What right has man ‘to cage His creature!
So thought I then, and now
I feel like bands about my brow

My dreams of fame in Literature

Are just as cruelly fated.

My thoughts, at one time raced and played,
Like a beast in his native wood.
Now teaching is my daily food,
I’ve become a professor grave and staid,
Or as such I’m always rated.

Each time an exercise I read,
It adds to my cage a new bar;
My ambition falls to a lower star.
Oh when from prison ‘ll my mind be freed.
My spirit in peace reinstated !
—Bos

Prof. Bennett (in English 9)

‘‘I’m ‘rather absent minded, you know, but
if somebody will remind me I'll continue
‘‘Getting Married’’ next day.’’ Something
new—to get married by instalments.

 

Sophette—I like long skirts don’t you?
ete I’m bow-legged too.

Ltt tttihithth StL AA ALbALLA 7 St tihihtihhhtttttt

| The TARRY INN

Dainty Lunches Served Quickly

CONFECTIONERY COOLING DRINKS
ICE CREAM | AFTERNOON TEA

st $4 oe gy Mm pS
hoy ee rite Gene

 

 

 
