eee ees

~ VOL, LVI.

* BUSINESS MA JAGER

 
 

 

The Dalhousie Gazette

FOUNDED 18659

ISSUED WEEKLY - : ° EDITOR : : 
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Mias Juanita O Coanor, B. Comm
Vincent F. Clifford

FACULTY EDITORS

ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
H. E. READ, RP.A.

D. R. Webster, B.A.
Mies Ciara’ Murray

Miss Marion Hoben - A.B. Morton

I. L. Barnhil. W. S. Gilchrist
W. G. Dawson A. Johansen

E. A. Mowat

SPORTS EDITOR a 9 . P. T. Hickey
GIRLS’ SPORTS EDITOR ° ° Miss E, I. Macneill
EXCHANGE EDITOR ‘ . ; R. F. Ross

RESIDENCE REPORTERS
Miss Angela Magee W. B. MacOdrum

STAFF ARTIST - ° - D. E. Green
OVERSEAS CORRESPONDENT J. A. Dunlop, B.A

. J. GORDON FOGO
64 LEMAR CHANT ST., TeL.S 2595 J.

EDITORIAL

 

 

*

Ralph Waldo Emerson says in the opening
lines of his essay on ‘‘Charaeter’’—‘‘{ have
heard that those who listened to Lord Chatham felt that there was something finer in
the man than anything he said.’’

Unfortunate are we, if those who listen to
us in our daily conversation, do not also feel
that there is something finer in us than anything we say, for it is only too true that most
of us do not say very much.

If we are-to be judged by our ability to
express by ourselves simply and intelligently
—and that is a standard commonly used by
the world,—then too many of us will fall very
low in the scale.

The tendency of every-day speech seems to

be to use as many slang phrases as can be
crowded into our sentences. Fun and being

funny certainly have their very important,

place, but let us be careful lest the ‘‘lingo’”’

becomes, from constant use, our habitual

tp mrepeen tage try as we may,

we eatinot rise above it oo os
ee Seip will eet per ps after we leave

long’ to be able to
ovis: my fresh

. v¥s
ee ei i

 

ea rt AS
tS ul } >

wer

‘

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 5, 1924.

all, just laziness, of a form which rapidly
‘‘grows on one’’ unless it is constantly guarded against ,and, the habit of careful enunciation is developed.

Most Dalhousians heard at least one of the
lectures delivered by Dr. Robert Norwood
when he was in Halifax recently, and all will
agree that much of his charm and magnetism
as a speaker, is due to the simple, understandable way in which he expresses himself
and the careful articulation of each word he
uses.

It has been said that some people have to be
followed around by a man with a broom and
a basket to sweep up the litter of ‘‘i-n-g-’s’’
they have dropped.

Let us be careful that we do not need the
services of such a trailer!

—-F. E. M.

-——

What Other Colleges Are Doing

-_
 

 

Mustaches will not win the heart of the co-eds
of the University of Michigan. A representative
of the student paper asked ten of the prettiest girls
on the campus for their honest opinion of the habit
of some men of allowing a “misplaced eyebrow” to
adorn their upper lip. Everyone of them objected to it.”

“Why?” enquired the eager reporter,

“Oh, just because.” Was the answer.

Columbia University has inaugurated a series
of lectures to be given to students who are attending college for the first time. Among the things
studied are note taking, selection of one course and
arranging it for the greatest convenience and
benefit, participation in student affairs, and many
other things that new students need to know, but
which they never have a real opportunity to learn,
It takes a year usually for a student to begin to
get anywhere in real college life. College years
are too few and too valuable to be spent in feeling
one’s way and in finding the ropes for onesself.

i

One of the colleges at Toronto has substituted
“fagging” for initiations. Some of our Seniors in
residence would welcome this change in Dalhousie.

A suspicion has been growing of late years that
it might be just as well to treat university undergraduate as adults intead of as children New

Princeton has taken the bold step of permitt
ing the students to decide for themselves if and
when they will attend classes. This puts a fearful

F reponsibility on the instructor. ‘Henceforth he

a

 

No. 8.
Sa eaea

DALHOUSIE

—— 7

A Contemporary Estimate

 

 

Now that his Lordship has departed’ and
that a wish to flatter him ean scarcely exist
and will not be suspected, it is a delightful
duty to retrace the steps of his administration
and to record, with a bold and impartial
hand, the impression which it has left upon
the inhabitants of this Province. Never was
a Governor before so popular; never did any
Governor deserve to be more so.

His entire time and thoughts were devoted to our various intcrests; no selfish ealculation ever stained for a mome + the purity
of his publie conduet; to promote our welfare,
he spared neither bod? ‘y fatigue nor industrious application; and he brought all the:
resources of a cultivated mind and a vigorous
understanding to bear upon that point.
Whatever publie objcet required pecuniary
aid, he was liberal even to profusion: and the
founder of a charitable or other useful institution or society calculated with certainty
upon his ecountenanee and support. Hig
manners were in the highest degree courteous and affable, while he never for got, nor
allowed others to forget the dignily of his
station. On these accounts the applications
to him for private relief were more frequent
than perhaps to any of his predec essors; and
no petitioner ever left him unsatisfied. The
antichamber of Government house was the
common refuge of all who had any claims
upoh him either in his official capacity or:
from their own misfortunes. The memorials
of his publie exertions are sulfiiently durable
and splendid. They speak for themselves,
whether we regard the College which he has:
founded, and which is pregnant, we hope,
with many blessings to ourselves and to our~

children or the agricultural spirit, the first

'
vy 4
"ra nd

i

a 7: y=
~~ he
ex PL

i
Ve

 

+E

oe :

sparks of which he fostered with such suceess-
ful care. We shall not say, as it was said of.

Sir John Sherbrook, that we ‘‘ne’er shall see~

his like again:’’ but this we are sure we may

Say; that a better we never can and never

shall see. May our fellow-subjeets in Canada, at the close of his government,
preciate him as highly; and may the independent Editor of some paper there, when

ap-.

he)
-F
AE

arm if

  
  

he quits the shores of the St. Lawrence,

impress upon his parting scene a memorial
like this. bulkier ig | bed)

 
 

1 <9

|

} :
ie
Ts
:

oe eames me
et

ek ee

 

_
W “ ro

ET Te ea To eae eee oe
o 4G , : :

-—
-_——

“The Age of The Earth”

‘‘The Age of The Earth’’ was the subject
of a most interesting lecture delivered by
Professor Douglas MaelIntosh, D. Se., in the
new Medical building on Monday evening,
Feb. 25th, before the members of the Nova
Séotia Institute of Science.

Proiessor MacIntosh in opening his lecture
said that a knowledge of the age of the earth
is very important as it gives a clue to the
chronological order of the solar system.

The lecturer outlined three methods of
eomputation which are in use at the present
time in determining the age of the earth.

The first method rested upon the assumption that the age of the earth was the same
as the age of the sea. Therefore make a caleulation of the amount of a certain salt in the
sea. Sodium, he said was the only element
which seemed satisfactory. Now this salt was
carried into the sea year after year from the
earth. Therefore caleulate the amount

earried into the ocean every year, divide this

amount into the first and the result will be
an approximation to the age of the earth.
This method gives about 89,000,000 years but
as the method is rather crude this sum has
been corrected and raised to 95,000,000 years,

The second method was to derive the age of
the earth from the rate of cooling of the
earth. The outer strata of the earth lose heat
by radiation, the inner strata by conduction

to the outer strata. Thé earth’s interior is a

very poor conductor and therefore the earth
loses heat very slowly. This method places
the age of the earth at about 20 or 30 millions
of years. This is the method largely used by
geologists.

The third method was by the use of radium
and this, he said, was the only correct method.
The rare element uranium, found in rocks,
— goes through a breaking down process. It
breaks down into ‘‘Uranium X’’, then to
“‘Uranium XY’’, then to ‘‘Uranium Y,’’ then
to Radium ,and then there is Radio-emenation which very much resembles helium and
which passes off into the air. The radium
breaks down through a series of radio-active
substances until finally there is a substance
left which chemists are unable to detect from
ordinary lead. The age is calculated from

this lead content of the rocks, The radio
active substances break down at a very uniform rate. Finding out this rate, measuring
the final lead contents of the rock, and the
‘amount of helium which has passed off into
the air; the chemist is able to calculate the

time the same way that a banker, knowing»

‘the final amount in the bank, the interest, and
the amount drawn each year, would calculate
the time. The time gives the age of the
arth The result will vary with the different
rock formations used in the experiment.

t a '
i
Lah vm
aoe Bes tb r ce
3 a P ‘oe ey =
arr oh

© “J

eri: 1 i

d .

 

Friel, Hon R. J. Flynn, Hon. R. J. Byrne. |
J. Ross, Clerk of the House, Hon. H. P. Wick
 

a ic “em wr 7
7 5 a ye)

£. Cm rt oo '

’ yee a Ke Y a

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
MOCK PARIAMENT

LIBERAL GOVERNMENT DEFEATED
By Red.Tory Combine.

 

 

The Dalhousie Mock Parliament was formally
opened last Thursday evening at the Forrest Building with all the pomp, ceremony and _ ancient
customs of the occasion. .

With Prof. 5S. E. Smith, who acted as sia
at the head of the procession, the members of the
House of Commons were conducted to the Senate
Chamber by Charles Baxter, Gentleman Usher of
the Black Rod.

Col. W. E. Thompson, presiding as Governor
General, read the Speech from the Throne, after
which the members returned to the House of
Commons. The House was declared open by the
Speaker, and the Rev. Ray Gushue said that Latin
prayer so well known to all Law Students of the
First Year.

The address in reply to the speech from the
Throne was moved by the Hon. Russell Snodgrass
and seconded by the Hon. Gordon Graham.

The leader of the Conservative Party, Alastair
MacKinnon criticised the Government in power.
His remarks were followed by scathing denouncements from his follower Leonard Fraser and Roe
McKenna leader of the Socialistic Party, popularly
referred to as “McKenna’s Circus.”

The Honorable Gordon Fogo, Prime Minister
and leader of the Liberal Party indicated the
planks of the Liberal Platform and rained contempt on the Socialists for the lack of principle
displayed by that party in supporting the Conservatives.

Mr. MacKinnon, Leader of the Conservative
Party moved a want of confidence in the Liberal
Government and as a result of the vote taken in
which every member of the Conservatives and
Socialistic Parties voted against the Government
the Government went down to a glorious defeat.

The Liberal Cabinet consisted of the following
members:

Hon. Gordon Fogo, Prime Minister, Hon. A. M.

_ Matheson, Minister of Finance, Hon. H. EF, Read,

Minister of Justice, Hon. J. E. Graham Minister of
Defence, Hon. V. J. McEvoy, Minister of Railways,
Hon. P. T. Hickey, Minister of Public Works, Hon.
H, B. Dickie Minister of Health and S. C. R., Hon.
P. R. Barry, Minister of Agriculture, Hon, H. C.
Glube, Minister of Tradesand Commerce, Hon. G.
M. Morrison, Minister of Immigration, Hon. A. F.
Macdonald Minister of External Affairs, Hon. R. S.
Snodgrass, Minister of Labor, Hon. I. L. Barnhill,
Solicito rGeneral, Hon. J. O. ©. Campbell, Minister
of Marine and Fisheries, Hon V. L. Kyte, Postmaster General, Hon, C.._N. Bissett, Secretary of
State, Ministers without portfolio: Hon. H. C.

wire, Chief Whip, Rev, R. Gushue, Chaplain.

a Tn closing the lecture Professor MacIntosh |
urged the sndlense rae he mind the fact

Men’s Inter-Collegiate Debate

The Inter-Collegiate Debate with King’s College
will be held on Friday, March 14th, at 8 p. m. in
the Gymnasium. The subject for debate is
“Resolved that Confederation is in the best interests of the Maritime Provinces. Dalhousie uphelds the negative of,the resolution.

The—subject. being one of such importance in
present day discussion it is expected that there will
be a record attendance and in order to give everybody an opportunity of hearing the debate it was
decided to hold it in the Gymnasium.

The Dalhousie team, as published in the last issue
of the Gazette consists of W. C. Darby, G. M.

 

Grant and Avery Newcombe.

Walter Darby is a member of the Junior class
and this is the first year he has debated at Dalhousie. He has had considerable experience in
public speaking while teaching at home on “the
island” and with his pleasant voice and ability to
make figures “talk” great things are expected of
him.

G. M. Grant or “Jigger” as he is nicknamed by
his college associates, hails from Yarmouth and is
in residence at Pine Hill. “Jigger” is of a commanding presence and thas a nascent gift of
oratory which springs to the surface on occasion.
This is the first year “Jigger” has attempted
debating and he also is a prominent member of the
Junior Class.

A. R. Newcombe the third member of the team
belongs to the Junior Class. He is possessed of a
remarkable vocabulary and flow of language and
is a speaker of marked ability. Avery came into
prominence in debating during the present year
when he lead the Arts team which defeated Law
in an Inter-facylty Debate.

With this team composed of new material of
such speaking ability and intellectual capacity,
Dalhousie is assured of keeping up the high standard of previous debating teams, and is also confident of obtaining a verdict over King’s on the
evenig of. March 14th. Watch the Notice boards
for arrangements in regard to tickets.

 

Toronto and Queens both defeated McGill
debaters last Friday night. Subject: “Resolved
that the League of Nations hes justified its continued existence.”

 

 

A farmer, upon his death, left seventeen horses
to his three sons, one-half of them to be given to
the eldest, one-third to the second, and one-ninth

to the third. The sons were much puzzled as to

how they should make the division, but a neighbor soon solved the difficulty. He brought over

his own horse, making eighteen altogether. Then — |
horses to the eldest, one-third

=
=:

 

     

‘aan
rs:
a.»

  

Pe ee ee
: A 7 ; : > f } J ‘

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sa yt nme ql

ay »7m ij z ce = . ir v3 71 - = an} nu a} 7 47 TE on ny TT =
' Oe aad
’ le
veg

_

Jolly Juniors Manage Well

 

Due to almost unparalled management and acute
financial acumen, the Junior Senior Dance cost the
class only twenty-three dollars. Delighted with
this result, a motion thanking the Social Committee
and others connected the Dance was unanimously
passed at the last class meeting, and responded to
by C. W. Sedgewick who thanked all for their
loyal support and work.

The following were appointed as Class ’25 nominees for the Students’ Council:

Misses K. Covert, G. Crawford, A. Grand and H.
Elliott, Messrs. W. Sedgewich, T. Chipman, M.
Armstrong, A. Hill, M. Grant, B. Irvin.

*Pearly” Gates required from all the male candidates assurance that if elected they would use their
influence in favor of a grant from the Council for
the recently formed Studley Bridge Club.

—B. I.

Commerce Clearings

On Tuesday, February 26, the Commerce
Society held a meeting, at-which, in the absence of
the president, Mr. Douglas Campbell who had not
recovered from the effects of his recent accident,
Miss Ruth Fulton, the vice-president, presided.

The principal business was the nomination of
candidates to run in the approaching Students’
Council election. Miss Ruth Fulton and Mr.
Reginald Piercey were nominated.

The long debated question of ordering a Commerce pin was discussed, but because of the
expense involved the society decided to delay such
action until next year, when, it is hoped, an_ increase in the number of Commerce students will
lessen the unit cost of the pins.

 

—J. O’C.

AT IMPORTANT CONVENTION

Dean Ryan left on Sunday for Chicago to
attend a meeting of the American Association of Dental Schools, which takes place on
the 5th, 6th and 7th of March. The several
associations before existing have amalgamated
to form the American Association, and
much benefit to all the schools is expected to
result from this convention.

Dr. Ryan expects to be away about two
weeks. a

‘

 

The Studley Students’ Bridge (Club accepts the
challenge of the Lawyers’ Bridge Club. Address
all communications to the Secretary, Mr. C. H. W.

 

’s Store

ia «
“te eT
ie Coa vie sf a f; ¥i

a ni 4 ori Gk 3) ee ‘

|
|
'
'

To the “Second Pine-Hiller.”’

(Kliff’s Krazy Kuts.)
How hard on our heart was the blow in your
column
When fondly we turned to the last page of all,

That boy out at Pine Hill, I tell now right
solemn—

Has made a mistake ‘bout the girls at the
“Hall,”

The old worn out haw-haw

The time-rusted haw-haw

The mean one on lemons,

We read in the “Kuts.”
The fox. in. the story, whe sighed for the grape
vine,
But all unsuccessful, a moral should teach—
That boy and his wit sound so “sour-grape”-y
The prize that he’s tried for must be out of
reach!!.

no)
ENGINE # RING

The third of a series of lectures for engineering students was given by Mr. W. F.
Bowan on Friday the 15th. His subject was
‘* Accounting for Engineers.’’

The subject was fully discussed and it application to the engineering profession carefully explained.

We note Kliff’s question in a recent issue
of this paper and we are sorry to say that
the solar system is so constructed that it will
not permit the use of beams, sun of otherwise, to support that vast body of heat and
light.

“Tee-Hee.”’

   

—Ptum Bop.

Big Double Header

: Acadia Girls vs Dalhousie
AT 7.@

heli Boys vs Dalhousie
AT 8.45

in the Dal Gym.

on Friday, March 7th. All turn out and root
ADMISSION 25c

The Chllace Girl
Likes A Hat

that combines style, quality, modesty
and economy. Call and see our smart
“Dal” shapes.

 

 

Stirling, whose work and suggestions

Delta Gamma Hold Blue Sky Dance:

 

Last in the series of annual dances has been that
of the Delta Gamma Society held in the gymnasium
Monday, Feb. 25; and whether the old saying’
that—

“Tho first is good, and second’s the same,

The last is best of all the game,” be true or not
for other things, it indeed applies here.

At any rate, the dance was much more success
ful than Delta Gammas of previous ycars.

Of special novelty and charm were the decorations which transformed the somewhat barelooking gymnasium into a beautiful winter scene.

Groves of real spruce and fir trees decked the
entrances; overhead a circle of blue sky hung, in
which shone the winter constellations, with drapings of blue uniting, this with all sides of the
room; artificial snow drifted down at times, and
all the dances were announced by the jingling of
sleigh bells.

The Delta Gamma emblem was also much in
evidence and proved to be highly decorative.

‘he catering too was very efficient, supper being
served from tables already set, instead of by the
usual method.

Chaperones present were Dr. and Mrs. MacMechan, Prof. and Mrs. MeNeil, Mrs. McKean, and
Miss Lowe.

The committee in charge of the dance were the
Executive officials of the Society, the Misses Amy
McKean (Pres.), Edith Black (Vce-Pres.),
Harriett Eliot (Seec’y), Anna Grant, Elinor Barnstead, Harriet Roberts and Helen Wickwire.

The girls are much indebted to, and wish to
thank the boys who by ther hearty co-operation
made the dance possible, and particularly so Mr.
-ere invaluable.

—Ad Rein

To Cupid

Ah subtle Cupid thou who dost imbue
The chillest hearts with love, serene and sweet;
Who hast some magic balm with which to treat
Torn, wounded hearts and mould them firm aad

true; 4
Who even canst with gold tipped darts subdue
Stern Nature’s laws, and in thy way dciscrect
So pierce two hearts until as-one they beat,
Thus granting life and hope and joy anew,—
Dear boy, have pity, take my lonesome heart
And wandering o’er this world, o’er land and sea, |
I'mploy with zealous skill thy noble art: : ee
Somewhere beneath these skies there needs must he |

A fairer, sweeter, dearer counterpart, ie
Go, search, and finding bring it back to me. — |
— "A work of Art”.

AL Lea S|

The Leading Bookstore

 

ae aes

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text
Books.

Commercial and Society Prelinenen,

‘ : ‘i iar eas j ss fe hay 7 : *
Ls 2s : im | ¢
A tala aia ee
| - GRAI
| sid OM. eee ee me iB Pane
 

   

 

~~

FAIR. DAPHNE —

A BALLAD.

A fair maiden was Daphne,
Yet roguish was she,

‘And she had for a fiance
A lad from the sea.

When he left her and sailed
Off to far foreign shores,
And wrote letters in dozens,
She answered with scores.

At their parting she gave him
A wonderful pen

Gilarant« d to tell truly

The thouchts of men.

Once it ‘anced Daphne's letters
Were going astray,—

Silence reigned: then from Jack
Came a strange note one day,—

“A long time I’ve waited
And quite patiently,

But it’s clear to me now
That you won’t write to me.

I will tell Davy Jones

That my soul he may snare

If he’ll give you dank seaweed
Instead of nice hair.

I will pray to him thus,—
‘Your servant here begs
Give Daphne fish scales

On her arms and her legs.’

I'll have shark fins to grow
On the small of your back
So that when you sit down
It will feel like a tack.

: How. your mother will smile

ba And your father will grin
When they see whiskers grow
On your cheeks and your chin!

My friend wizard will pull

ha At your ears good and strong
So they’ll flap like a mule’s
And be just as long.

Then claws like a lobster’s
Will grow on your heels,
So your toenails will rattle
Like “Tin Lizzie” wheels.

   

I have left you your hands,
Daphne, nice, trim and neat.
If you don’t write to mé,

They'll turn into pigs feet.”

But wise Daphne danced ’round
And she laughed long in glee,
“So the pen tells me true
_ What he’s thinking of me!”
5 meres ye

By nad Big
iw icity “1 ¢ a ae Te ;
PGT aa aoe ie co per

; Ce a , " ve ite 4 mt a

wy Wet

For aeons longer glorify the night.

ie
‘2
, z ee tes “ matt 4 y
! wn uJ 4
a Py) . A ad ne 7
’ vi

THE MIDNIGHT “SKY

F. A. C.

DR,

 

Awake, my soul, invoke the sdcred Miise;
Let star-lit scenes with witching charms enthuse;
View vast expanses. chad in mysti¢ light
From rediant jewels of Canadian night.
From-Fast to West the vast Empyrean moves,
Celestial grandeur in celestial grooves, ’"'*: |"
Majestic in its splendrous’ west-ward march‘
Sncireling Heaven in a boundless arch.
From North to South great constellations shine
In royal folds of drapery divine, "
Their full-orbed glory through the mystic night
Entrances vision—floods.the soul with light,"
While orb on orb, in grand procession, ‘rolls,
Imposing train across the heavenly scrolls:
Forever onward, those beauteous undimmed lights;
Forever speeding through the Empyreal heights!
O Sons of Earth, who, with indifferent eyes,
Might view the whole as one fortuitous prize
By chan e envolved from chaos you despise
Are we indeed immeasurably wise?
Say, when the glorious Sirius appears
Does not his splendour rouse our-sle_ping fears
That all our gathered wisdom is, at best,
An atom from the lofty mountain’s crest;
Advancing Science but a struggling ray
From higher spheres where Wisdom holds its sway?
Can we conceive what lies beyond our sphere
And sound the depths where unknown laws uprear
Their million systems—each a greater lord
Than our speck with flaming central orb?
Outside the realms of speculation say
Why Aether lights the ever-dazzling day?
When Time had birth, where Space begins and
ends, .
Or why the Sun the Earth its power lends?
Look up once more. Make due and lengthy
‘pause
Review all facts, then seek a Parent Cause.
With humble heart and serious, upturn’d face,
Go send thy gaze across the Phantom—Space.
Behold the vast encircling Belt aglow
With suns that shone eternities ago:
The Milky Way, that great celestial scene,
With fires of its countless diamonds seen
What awful grandeur in the Empyreal
Dome! |
Refulgent glory, therein has its home;
Proclaiming, in its highest magnificence,
The existence of a Great Intelligence. ,
O radiant orbs, Sons of the Boundless All, |

§*9"

i '

That move so grandly through the Empyreal Hall,

Adieu, adieu, and may thy gracious light

NEW BRUNSWICK STUDENTS

“There will be a mesting of tie New Brunswick
Student’s Society of Dalhousie in the Munro Room
on Thursday, March 6, at 8. p. m.—to arrange for
some social function. ‘All

_ THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE +

   

Saal ieee seenent os Ser

¥
EUs t ell (A. WA? wie ees ’

7 er : °. e
oagans ey rae ;

MY. LAKE
Tre
My lake, lies — leaslenacw, and bound
By the cold. hand of winter; ‘but in summer
It is the-fairest ‘place in‘ all the land.
Around the broad ‘exparise of dancing waters
The hills rise gently, clothed with densest
woods,
Where many little timid wild things live.
Through the swect silence of the summer
night '
Comes faintly the long. weird and wailing
ery

 

Of the lone loon, ' The owl’s hoarse mystic

hoot
Replies, and echoes round the shadowed
shores.

—K. V.

A FABLE

(without a moral)

The sun streamed into the dainty parlor
and caught the gleaming copper kettle that
stood on the absurd little tea-table. It
touched the burnished copper of Kitty
Craven’s hair as she knelt on the cushioned
window-seat and played aimlesssly with the
blind-eord. And it lit the fury in Arthur
Craven’s eyes as he stood there, very stiff and
straight, behind her.

‘*Very well, then, you will?’’ ‘His words
came quietly but with an, effort. ‘‘ Will
what?’’ with a studied insonciance, just the
least bit overdone. You will go to the
theatre with that man tonight?’’

‘“Why of course I shall.’’

There was a deadly little pause.

‘*You—you know what it means.”’’ :

_ “Tf you will have it so.’’ She was fighting
for her pride, but her husband was too blind
to see.

‘“Very well,’’ he said. again, ‘‘you will
hear from my solicitors tomorrow.’

Her slow laugh came after him. into the
passage but he did not hear the sob that
caught it short,

Arthur pied left his club at ten-thirty

  

(lt Bae —— £8

, cad WET lta ef ke ae A
~ oe
aS . i ee ; 2 S
ark d OW: - aT ny

eee

ee 2

me : My j :
7 4 4 we el ig oe
7 a vo’. _
ae —_- ,
anes :
- cna ote F = = — ee 7 ™ *
. “ F i ¢ '
ene » ie el tg ee ee . - “
— ps c ~ . ho »-s » . — / e
ae to ae | : ce ae te : aie oe fe ; 7 c
sa iy ss, iy on ee : : “ = -y
> r is vo : EN Si Tee hms ~ > a
“a — Be = % ~— aaa 5 .
ee oY on eee ee : ;
a — ; ut: eh - . r ‘ "ee e yee a ea :
= ‘ wi a rr 7
eek ox 4 = * "
- va a i is 4
a =f ~ : .
ar a
PL.o arr zs Pp y
=" Nie “in w
e: ug ul S
ai
a
ty
inh ay i

 
 
 
   

we eee ye Pa a 8) Ear
Rieter: Tr TED eT rs, my HE iy
Whar ee
ae bee: Tee so
; ;
a? Met tr, m%
eT: ;
‘ eas on 2 i i a we ‘
a? te : "9

¥

 

Pine Hill Post

“On with the dance, let-joy be unrefined.”

That is the typical Pine Hill attitude these

days. Even with exams, .a scant: six weeks

away Jazz is King. Verily some of the boys

have blossomed forth \ihto ‘maturity this
winter. The Delta Gamma saw the ‘“sweet:
fruition’’ of many a long suppressed hope.

Bill Firth, recognizing the attributes that
go to make a man;. having learnt: to manipulate a pipe, rounded up several for a final
instruction in the art of the dance. Duncan
MacMillan was there, introducing the |.dke
Ainslie square lanecers. Not to be outdone
was Robert Robb, who applied the laws of
psychology and consequently mastered easily
the difficulties that interfering feet supply.
And Charlie MacLellan, well, as Art Youill
says ‘‘Weights must soon be fastened to him
or he’ll fly up on the air so light headed has
he beeome.’’ Bob Ross looked the affair over
at a safe distance. Frank Archibald had
prayers that night. He was excited. ‘‘Let
us sing the two shortest verses. Let us read
the shortest psalm. Let us have a shower.”’
Never mind though, Frank’s got there.

Blanchard Thompson at the piano. ‘‘I
don’t think. I just follow my fingers.’’

‘‘Jo’’ Pringle has early began to practice
his profession. During the winter ‘‘Jo’’ has
been the chief engineer on the golf links.
‘‘Jo’’ knows every slide.

Yarmouth has once more burst into fame
and shows she can produce something more
than Minard’s liniment. ‘‘Jigger’’ Grant
makes the Dal debating team.

A FEW QUESTIONS

How did Edwin Johnson get the job of
‘property man’’ for Shirreff Hall ?

What does Dune. McMillan mean when he
talks of ‘‘sunny weather and stormy weather

friends?’’

Why does Herbie Davidson take Tanlac?
Dunphy says ‘‘to stimluate his artistic
faculties?’’

Why all the haireuts around Pine Hill?
Two class pictures, ’24 Arts and final Theol
ogy. We'd like to know ‘what possessed

Homer Norton to have half a dozen sittings.

-Co-eds heard the truth when at the second
“Oxford’’ debate, Sam Proffit said the proper
attitude to take to students was an attitude of

gg

“What sould; Redvers Ross. and Wilford
Byers do it Doug. MacDonald began to play
Ci at tn Pr |

rant is sick in Pictou. We're sorry.

a bit, a! on aw 4
sree RO a.
uy, ay iv
Sh ish ‘ee
4 $1

> ry

Te NBN te
% or ’ PE a ‘ “i ae
. ie oc 7 ect hy * :

     

* % , ™
‘te a We

ras Aes en
i he

ae wate
7 Xi 1 an oer Sale
a « — of is 3 bs “ oh ae Becau ae ne gir

he tay ay € by

aa A 7 ci Se
i rc . , are y “| Pen a i ae ; ‘| le

7 waive rs . ew eee ay ms. % 4
4 ae es: J 7 r Ty ' 1 > 2

my \) DE aise te | % ving Nyse peewee ae ee fg ;
oop fee's

  
 
 

eat? “eur cs"
DW ets

THE BALHOUSIE GAZETTE

see

| hl
WG ay :

ai
} ’
|

am "4
|

    
    
       

|

 
   

nd i tls
"'50 and 100

 

LAY ER'S

 

a |

 

 

 

   

_4

s] than all other brands

combined

  

 

SHIRREFF HALL

The Hall is glad to welcome Miss Avis Marshall,
who has come in for the rest of the term as her
family have gone out of the city.

When the basketball team came back from
Wolfville, having defeated Acadia in a close game,
they arrived just at dinner time, and were greeted
in the dining room by three cheers from the rest
of the house. Each player found at her place at
table a box of chocolates given by the D.G.A.C.

Many funny things have been discovered, things
that few of those concerned had even suspected.
The discoveries were made by the photographers
in the taking of class pictures. If these amusing,
and yet sad looking features are part of everyday
expressions, it is quite obvious that there has been
an epidemic of indigestion, or some such —ing disease.

What with class parties and the college Pe
toboganning and skating, it is indeed difficult to
keep to the firm resolve.—That students must come
first—But with Miss Lowe standing by the studies,
it is perhaps made. a little easier for the girls as
the decision does not lie altogether with them.

Miss Lowe was the chaperone of the team on its
trip to Sackville last week. Miss Maddin took the

 

cae sere on her slim shoulders for the

ion pone edict mpiaag

os The 0 Pity) Pe ss
4 ie eof Bou , ”

EN REPONSE TO “WHO”, JAN 16, 1924

 

So you were the junior, the junior!
Well, I was the sophomorette, a
Ah! the memory of that kiss, it lingers with me
yet.
It reeked of Spearmint and Players,
But that was a trifle, ’bis true— |
For tho’ I was only a sophomore, 4
You were—well, who were you? ;
Two eyes met two, and mine could see
A simply unguessable— an
Surely permissible |
(Excuse me for copying)
Smile.

You were the junior, the junior,
I was the sophomorette;
You were shy—Why the deuce,
I ask, why?

Tis true we had never met.
In the dark of Shirreff Hall

Pines, I stumbled on something, not vin
You helped me, but why did you pass?

Instead of
Softly and reverently,
Yes, or e’en stutteringly, “Ae
Shyly and blushingly, asking my name?

That was two months ago or more,
Alas! we have never met,
 

Pharmacy Sleigh Drive

 

On Monday night the 18th, the Pharmacy Class
and their friends had a very enjoyable sleigh drive
to the Pleasant Inn, Bedford, starting from the
Forrest Building at sharp 8 o’clock.

The party was chapercned by Mr. and Mrs. G.
A. Burbidge and ‘Pious’ MacLeod.

Could it have been the moonlight that had the
effect on Staple’s voice? At the end of each
nuniber Cuthbertson asked for “a little harmony.”

On arrival at Bedford, supper was served and
the remajmder of the evening and a goodly portion
of the next morning were spent in dancing and
cards,

Charlie was so happy (we wonder why?) that
he wanted to say grace at the table.

We should like to know if Mr. Burbidge wanted
more beans himself when he tried to press Ernest
MacDonald to have another helping, and where did
Ormond put all those chocolates?

"Twas not till an early hour that anyone thought
of returning to town and when the party broke up
on Robie Street breakfast was not many hours
away.

Heard in Pharmacy Lab, M-M-g-t: “Place on
the end of pestle a wee, tiny, small, little, speck of
glucose.”

 

“HELLO” IS IMPOLITE AND ALSO USELESS

Cleveland telephone authorities are making an
earnest drive to develop “phonetic” courtesy and
efficiency, if one can believe the story recently received here, which states that a great effort is being
made to discourage the use and uselessness of the
word “Hello” in telephonic conversations. They
desire that the recipients of telephone calls merely
announce their names or the names of the firm and
then listen to the caller.

Possibly they will receive. greater co-operation
from subscribers by reason of the fact that “Hello”
really, means, “Oh, go chase a wolf.”

According to these Antymologists, the deprivation
of the word Hello is from the ery “Au loup” (to
the wolf), used by French and French-speaking
Norman-English hunters when they sighted a wolf.

The French pronounced it “A loo.” The English, using the aspirate “H”, made it “Ha, loo.”
The cry has been used by hunters up to date when
a fox is sighted, and by Americans, generally as a
personal saluation.

So “Hello” really means “Oh, go chase a wolf,”

a which, it must be admitted, is scarce a polite form
| of salutation either over the phone or personally.

 

She (suggestively)—That roast duck in the win
| dow makes my mouth water.

The Brute—Then spit. —Widow

DISPENSING .W...4

 

MacLeod, Balcom Ltd.

   

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The Younger Generation

The greatly press-agented younger generation
should have less attention, less agitation, and less
talking about, in the opinion of Dean Bessie Leach
Priddy, Dean of Women in the University of
Missouri. “It is not good for them to be kept in
the public eve,” Dean Priddy asserts, and then
continues:

“The younger generation today is not responsible
for social conditions which were by a former generation, and it is up to us to stand by them and have
faith, The younger men and women of teday-ere
just as idealistic, as full of spirit. ef reform and the
desire to be of help to humanity as younger people
ever were. However, there are more dangers. It
takes a saner and more level head te make good
in this age because of the complexity and rapidity
of modern life. Young people in college have the
responsibility of setting an example that makes
social life sane and safe for all young people in
the nation.”

Dean Priddy is further quoted by the “Boston
Traveller:” |

“The popular criticism of college girls, that they
are daring, cigarette-smoking, lip-painting vampires, or confirmed bluestockings with their thick,
horn-rimmed glasses, and possessing a comprehension of nothing below the ultraerudite, is sheer
nonsense. The university girl is potentially sound,
and her behavior is sadly exaggerated by the
publicity she gets. By far the greatest number of
our girls are in school to benefit themselves, and
to lay real basic foundations for a worthy life. The
thing they receive in their training is a sturdy independence that will tend to stabilize domestic life,
instead of to undermine it. Further, I believe the
silly chatter about them may be traced to the same
general source of other assaults on virile Americanism, in many ways. All is merely a futile attack
on our morale. Our country and its institutions

are too firmly reared and too strongly buttressed
to be toppled by either popguns or malicious conversation.”

That profanity is a primitive form of
vocalization is proved by a university research professor, through the discovery that
‘tin progressive aphasia, profanity is aften
the last form of speech to be lost.’’ Oaths
slip out quite reflexly when the occasion
seems to call for them. In automatic writing,
in trance utterances, in the language of instinctive criminals, and in subconscious and
reversionary psychoses in general, profanity,
usually of the milder sort has a conspicuous
place. ”

Bob Johnson's,
Two Barber Shops

FIRST CLASS SERVICE |

een

“MAJESTIC THEATRE BUILDING AND

 

SCIENCE AND BRAINS IN
BASKETBALL

BY DR. GYM.
‘‘Lack of Thinking’’

Let us suppose that a man has acquired all
the fundamental principles of the game

which is very essential in the development of

a player, before we can expect him to do
much thinking while playing. It is possible:
for a man to develop accuracy in shooting,.
passing, catching, dribbling, pivoting, speed,.
ete., but if he lacks ability to think quickly,.

he will develop into a individual ‘‘star’’ with
only one thought in mind (playing to the
gallery) trying to wir single handed.

But on the other hand, a player with all’

the above mentioned qualifications with the
ability to think and co-operate with the other

members of the team, will soon develop into
a first class player. ‘‘Use your Brains and
save wasted Energy.’’

1. Try and find out the weak points in
your opponents play and take advantage of
them, by changing your own play to suit the
situation.

2. Try to observe special plays used by
your opponents and get in and _ intercept
passes. |
3. The ability to judge the time and place
to use the many different plays such as shooting, passing, fainting, dribbling, pivoting,
ete.

4. Every member of the team should
study the play of his opponents during the
early part of the game and then plan ways:
and means of keeping the play in your
opponents’ territory until your team hits its:
stride.

MAGNIFICENT BEQUEST TO CORNELL

Three box-cars were required to carry to Ithaca’
the 50,000 volumes which were recently given to’
the Cornell University library by Benno Loewy, a
lawyer of New York City, who died a few years
ago. Filling 750 large packing cases, the books

are valued at more than $60,000. They have’

arrived there, and, with the exception of the law

_ books, will be stored in their present containers for’

lack of shelf space in the library building.

That part of the gift which comprised Mr.
Loewy’s law collection has been added -to the
library of the Cornell College of Law. This col
lection of legal volumes consists of..about 9000.

books, including many sets of reports, textbooks,,
digests, statues and legal periodicals.

Be sure to get our prices on —
class group work, also sport —

Me ee ae ees Midd AF ee ae : TRAE fae Cre Ie ACL ERE Pier
Pe TE Ie ies ' er ory eer Pe ee eR ee eee ee Re ra i;
; 7 ,.% : » 7 PY Pima 5

 

group , the est i in qT

*
OA eo ee er A Bie thas og

 

The “Middies” Basketball team: popular Charlotte town girls who made many friends during their visit at Dalhousie last month.

A CLOSE GAME ti

The Wanderers Lead City League

The Wanderers climbed to the top of the City
League by defeating the crippled Tigers by a score
of 7—4 at the Arena on February 26th.

The score is no indication of the game because
in the first two periods the College completely outplayed the Clubmen while in the final frame the
latter received the breaks and thus clinched the

‘game.

Dalhousie were without their regular goalie
Lewis, Capt. Bates and all their regular subs. Roe
McKenna who got out of a sick-bed to play turned
in one of the best performances of the season. His
stick-handling was nothing short of sensational and

his poke-checking broke up many of the Wan-derers rushes.

Alan Dunlop was the star of the
game—he blocked and rushed in fine style and
is living up to his ‘rep” of being the best defence
man in the City League. Mont Haslam was again
hitting on all six, earning two of the Tigers goals.
The ‘Red’ Reds booed Monty at times because he
used his weight to counteract the trips and cross.
checks, he received from Hunter and_ Arthurs.
The Big forward was justified in using such
measures when there was only one referee, who
had a blind eye, when the Reds used such tactics,
‘Park’ Hickey turned in his best game of the
season. His poke-checking spoiled many of the
Reds chances but he was unfortunate in his shooting. . “Nutty” Wilson pulled off a lot of nice
rushes. Phillips who performed in the nets for
Lewis, played in senior company for the first time,
but did not come up to the expectations and because of the sickness of Lewis, the Tigers lost the
‘game.

She wears them in the winter

And she wears them in the fall

In the early spring she wears them—

In the summer not at all, ‘

In the summer time I lover her

But I shun her in the fall

For when she wears GALOSHES
I love her least of all. tones
—E. X.

THE HOME OF

| ATHLETIC GOODS:

 

   

DRE OT yO Re oe Pe 7 ©
: 7 Wis ' nay

"

Law Wins Championship

o_O

The Law Team still remains unbeate:, In
a fast game at the Halifax Arena last Thursday afternoon, Law and Medicine battled to
a draw in,which neither team was scored
against. The outstanding .feature of the
game, which was clean throughout, was the
splendid work of the opposing goal-tenders.
Borden in the net for Law made some remarkable saves and only the splendid performance of Morton, the Medical ‘‘ goalie’
saved his team from defeat.

By virtue of three victories and the tie
game Law annexes the Inter-faculty Championship for this year.

The standing of the teams is as follows:

Won Lost Tred

BW tedden 3 () 1
Medicine _. ---- 1 1 1
Be had: bie ] 1 0
Commerce .. .._ 1 2 0
Dentistry -.. -~- 0 2 0

~-I, L. B.

St. F. X. Won Championship

 

St. F. X. won the championship of the Intercollegiate Hockey League of the Maritime Provinces at Truro last week when they defeated
Acadia by a score of 6—3%.

The Saints had the best of play throughout ,and
showed fast skating and combination.

‘“Chook” MacDonald was the best of the Saints
and tallied the last score of the game.

Clarke was the strongest player for the losers.

 

Acadia’s Hockey team defeated King’s by a
score of 5—0 at Wolfville last.week for possession

of the Sumner trophy.

 

 

Now I sit me down to sleep,

The lecture’s dry, the subject deep,
- If he should quit before I wake,
Gimme a punch, for goodness sake.

    

From Six to Sixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire for
ter athletic accomplishment are the
ys who pick

 

‘ m~

Dalhousie played her first basketball match
in the girls’ Intercollegiate League on Saturday, February 23, in the Acadia gymnasium
at Wolfville. The team accompanied by Mrs.
Sterling, the ¢haperone, Marion Clark, the
referee and two masculine rooters, left
Halifax early Saturday morning and errived
at Wolfville af 10.30. The Acadia girls met
them at the train and took them to Tully
Tavern, the girls’ residence. After a rest
and a lunch the Dal girls were shown through
the Acadia buildings.

The 1 match was very close, Dalhousie winning by one point. At half time the score was J
11 all, but about the middle of the second |
period Dalhousie was leading by several | |
baskets. The Acadia girls made several
near the end of the game, but the final score
was 19—18 in favour of Dalhousie. .

After the game the Dalhousie girls had a
good swim in the Acadia pool, and then they |
were given another lunch. The Acadia
girls were indeed very thoughtful and hospitable, and Dalhousie takes this opportunity |
of thanking them. Acadia plays Dalhousie |
at Halifax on Friday, March 8, at 7.45. Dal
girls are looking forward anxiously to their
visit.

The line up: |

Dalhousie. — Rosie Goldstone, Marion ~
Campbell, forwards; Carol Hawkins (capt), —
Marjory Kennedy, centres; Elinor Barnsted,
Harriet Roberts, Guards; Edith Maeneill,
Mabel Borden, Alison MacCurdy, Spares.

Acadia.—Jean MacLaughlin, Miss King, ©
forwards; Paul Colbath, Helen Lawson, — 4
(capt), centres; Fae Maclean, Ann Doherty, —

guards; Beatrice Smith, Carol Chipmatiae

spares. ‘el

 

In the Match with H. L .C. the score was
17—10, not 17-0 in favor of Dal. i ft

A practice match was played between Dal
housie and the First Baptist Church on Wed oy
nesday evening, Dal Co-eds winning by By

a ne score.

 

 
 
 

ai
:
r

oy
ft

Pn Y
— = Rees 7
ae. at
Se pos a bat

& " i

Two Irishmen, Pat and Mike, who had”
been together on Pat’s wedding day, met
again after many years and were king
about old times. Mike: ‘You got an awfi

ts

‘fright on we meres day) dant
J Mae ,
 

Kliff's Krazy Kuts

Chicago Freshmen scored higher i in mental

tests than, college presidents.
Sure ! All Freshmen know they can do

that any old time.

 

Dein Kuirr—

I am a young boy, in my Sophomore year,

and on Monday night of last week, I took a
girl from Shirreff Hall out for the evening.
Qn the doorstep, when we arrived back, I held
her face between may hands and kissed her
ruby lips so tenderly. |

I am young, dear Kliff, tell me if that was
a wrong thing todo.
| Yours GERRY.

DEAR GERRY—

Not wrong, but rather foolish, you never
know when people have been watching the
show from a nearby window; until you see it

in the Gazette.
—KLIFF

(Note to parents from teacher). ‘‘Dear
Sir—I wish to inform you that Willie shows
signs of astigmatism,
attended to at once.’’

(Next day Willie brought this reply)
‘*Dear Sir—I don’t know just what it is that
Willie’s been doing, but I walloped him today, and you can have another go at him if
he isn’t any better.’’

WHO SAID THIS?

Prof: (When bidding farewell to

before Christmas)
‘*T hope that you will have a Merry Christ
class

mas, a Happy New Year, and that you will |

come back to college with more brains than
you have now.”’

_ Voice from back cf room: ‘‘Same to you,
gir!’
-’25—-Have you had your picture taken yet?
 7'24--No, every thime I think of it, I
‘eae it.

Prof. Griffen : (writing an exercise on the
abana): : ‘*aeecessitum ad se fratum com-. pedibus aurcis’’

 

 

‘summoned to him _ his

| Gauvin & Gentzel
4-18 Spring Garden Road
PHOTOGRAPHERS

Lye a rear Oras a Oe
y eh

which ought to be

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Girls Intercollegiate Debate

1a FP ALS ped Fg Fé: cae

‘ites the ‘al trial debate on Tiiesday, Feb. 19,
Miss Fonie MacKinnon as leader, Miss Clara
Murray and Miss Eva Mader were chosen, for the.
Inter-collegiate Debating team. a

These three will meet Mount Allison Vatversity
on the twelfth of Mareki'in the) School, for ‘the
Blind. “Bhe resolution’ to” be contested is . “that
with the exception. of those already under private

 

7
—
SCE EE RO RC RO EC eR

 

Finest Materials, Lining and

Temnmings . with: best workmanships at at reasonable prices.

Clayton & Sons

Tailors & Clothiers

_ operation, the natural resources. of Canada in gas,

oil, waterpower. and mines should be publicly owned and opérated.” Dalhousie —-will uphold the
negative side ‘of the argument.

Mount Allison is a formidable opponent having
defeated two universities. in the past two years;
but Dalhousie has an equal record of victories so
the coming debate promises to, be, yery interesting and closely contested.

Don’t forget the | twelfth!

 

 

Oe mee ae Om ame 0%e

UNGAR’'S

' How often a perfectly good garment
is discarded beeause it is soiled and
stained. That is because its owner
does pot realize our wonderful
process of French Dry-Cleaning,
which restores old clothes, and makes
them look like new.

Why not tr us?

Phone Sack. 428
Laundering, _ Cleaning,

Dal Profs. Defeat Acadia 3—1

In a game filled with thrills for the fans; and
characterized by almost faultless | team-work
throughout, at the City “Y” Saturday afternoon.
Dal Professors succeeded in reversing the previous
defeat inflicted on them by the Acadia Professors
in Volley Ball.

The Acadia team appeared in flannels, and were
supported by a female contingent, while the Dal
team, atbired in more comfortable shorts, showed
more staying powers, and received greater support
from the gallery.

The first game, went to Dal by a large margin
and in, the’ Acadif reversed this, winning
comfortably. Dal won the third by two points,
and romped home to victory in the fqurth by five
points, thus winning the day. There were no outstanding players, all showing up well.

—R. O. G.

His Not to Reason Why

Charles M. Schwab said at a dienes in New
York: “When Sir Eric Geddes was trying to introduce economies into England’s government
services he often noticed, in a passage in Whitehall; a sentry in uniform. He asked the sentry one
day what his duties were. The man said he was |
there to warn people not to touch the wall, . He.
had been stationed there issuing that warning for
years. Why? He didn’t know. Well, Sir Eric
Geddes investigated the matter, and he found that
a war minister’s wife had brushed her sleeve
against wet paint on that wall thirty-three years
before. A warning sentry stationed thane, that
afternoon had remained ever since.” ip

 

Dyeing

 

 

 

Afternoon or Evening

 

 

Morning, afternoon or evening, The
Green Lantern is at your service. Be
it a light lunch, an ice cream or a full
course dinner, the service is guaranteed
to be all that one could wish.

— The Green Lantern

| HALIFAX — CANADA

x 
 

   
 
 

Ce ee aaanmeenameteneaanel ~

a a a 8

; ' &

     

She rile A

 
   

vs
- © ye
vaere

ar 7
5 cs = :
ad b i J
~ Pas a pMigges> ig ak
aes ee aS
wo =. rn Pa "
Winn: Pe » 4 ae ’ ul i :
.

ra is
ge . 2
he Name

—— s

a al

i: Fema
