 

 

~The Dalhousie Gazette

. Ome Dollar Per Year
D. R. Webster, B. A.

“Min Alttnom eCards
P. T. Htekey, ‘B.A,

A. Munmre
D. L Meany

- Mise Avis Marshall
George Morrison, B, A.
Mias Eleanor Barnstend

- = a Davidson

HM. R. Nerton, B. A,

DP. 0, Hebb
“FOUNDED 1869
“HALIFAX, N. S., NOV. 26, 1924

| task of directing. For this ‘wo ‘things are

necessary; many students who are now lending

t2 hand can put their shoulder to the wheel,

and executive officials must be wYling and

delegate to subordinates a greater pro
prion of of oe and accord them comit on of their services.”

If mat Dalhousie is going to make good in the
academie and in the outside world, it means
tat the students must share the tasks that tall
to the few and everyone be ready to do his or
her part to aid any phase of university 1¥e.

—s_ oe
.

‘CORRESPONDENCE

poe
‘

(The Gazette assumes.no responsibility for
Sentiments: expressed in this column. Correspondence s welcome, and if possible limited
to iy ve hundred words.

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette,
__ Dear Sir -—

| fee! that the Dalhousie Gazette has
been dont and ‘s now being-done an injustice

by the Dalhousie students. Because of this |

“fact the Gazette is itself doing an injustice to

“the: University.” The personal .witticisms, and

saw-edged humor, now appearing in its columns,

a surely. do not represent the greatest height o

literar attainment of wih Palouse are

3 ee

- The Unversity ef McGill publishes a daily
per and -on each Wednesday it includes a
_ par | literary su léinent. .This-supplement is — up of articles on music, art
terature, an nd-at once identifies the stu
To Editor of the Gazette.
Dear Sir :—~

After all that has been said regarding the
venue of debates at Dalhousie it is perhag
bringing “coals to Newcastle” to attempt ar
f“ne further on the subject. ‘However; Mie
Editor, the discussion yp to the present time —
has been suggestive of a more or less ica
inquiry as to the cause thereof. : _

One Mr. Grant seems to be the chief agita +
tor and prime mover of those who rebel)
against the existing state of affairs.in Sodales”
and so far.as can be gathered by the writer
his chief cause of complaint seems to be that”
all the officers in the society are law students”
True they are, but that “foreign element’)
which is always present in every question ¢
‘*Conflicts’’, is not to be found here, for thos
self same law students are also graduates ¢ j
Dalhousie Arts School. of

Now are we to say that the arts studen
at Dalhousie have no faith in their graduate
and do not consider them capable of holding
offices in University societies? Would Mro7
Grant consider himself incapable of holdin L
office in a University society should he,
chance, remaifi here 45.4 stucent in one of ‘the:
eraduate faculties? .Perhaps: it is ee la
students. who. have this limited caps yf
his point of view. Surely every D;
will agree that Mr. Grant's apparent g1
complaint, above referred to, is, w
perly considered, entirely biconsixtent with
way in which Dalhousie looks upon her g
uates and is therefore untenable.

Having disposed of the apparent gro

‘complaint which Mr. Grant. would. p 4 ae
from the house tops we must ask what ha

actuated. him in his ‘anti-Sodales

Seely. nothing of a.personal nature. h a
ae + team which met ae here § on

with thé selection of the.

be true, but even s
ago may a 0,16

 

 

 
  
 
  

 

 

(Continued from page 1)

 

During the last three years Sodales teams have
mot only been singularly successful in regu'ar
league contests but the activities of the society
have for the first time extended to successful
debates with Oxford, Combridge and McGill.
- The following results bear out the above statement) In 1922-23 Dalhous'e won unanimous
decisions over both the men and women debaters from Acadia. During the same year
“an interfaculty league was conducted for the
McKean cup, won by Medicine. In 1923-24
Dalhousie won an audience vote over Oxford, (judges voting two to one for Oxford). A
Dalhousie team won by a decison from both
judges and audience from McGill while another Dal. team was winning over Kings. A few
weeks ago Dalhousie debaters were accorded
by the leader of the Cambridge team the distinction of being the best speakers which they
had met on this side of the water. Prospective
debates are pending with U. N: B. and McGill.

Are these activites such as are usually attributed to a sick man?

It is hoped that this letter, with all its faults
as such, will have the effect of making every
true Dalhousian realize that the present controversy ‘sn’t a joke or something else which
does not deserve his or her consideration, but
rather something if carried on must certainly
have its bad effects both now and in the future
and as such should be dropped once and for
all, with a firm resolve on our part that those
efforts which we are willing to exert in University affairs shall be constructive rather than

destructive.

  

R. L. Snodgrass.

   
 

 
 

(LLMs ihdtidsidtdtiddidddhhddlididi}idttih§ilhllidhtlictidittisdd lid

   
    
    
   

  
 
 
  

Nova Scotia Nursery |

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
Three Phones

  
    
  
    
  

  
    
 

CutFlowers, Bouquets |

and all Floral Work

WT OL

  

       

MLA hhithiVthhithhhhiihhhitiiiktiddtisist§ititithtitiidd
‘

  
  

= ts
; t
\
7

a ‘
ri |
| T h G

| Lantern

ne
ne

 

aa. a me ; | } :
is a restaurant where pure foods are
ra : * - ik ‘anak I
ght lunches |} f)

Pare oo =.

=~ ' 2 ew = - * ‘ 2

I bes 8 ants, saree Md ee x" r

PI fl a ‘ === , * .
’ a = : “iy . an.

‘

 
   

| 428

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SODALES

 

Now. we ask you! Was it not an admirable
thing that, in the midst of intensive preparations for the festive season beginning on the
13th. Sodales should pause to meditate upon the
question of “whether or not we should pity our
grandchildren”? Such was the situation on
Wednesday night!

Hereby Dav dson’s sympathetic nature fitted neatly into the affirmative and through him
many noble sentiments found utterance; this
speech was quite the best of the evening. His
final argument, however, that our grandchildren are greatly to be pitied because they are
only descendants and we are their ancestors: left
us in some uncertainty; we fear that we detect
here a subtly uncomplimentary reference to our
individual and collective worth.

Next. we heard from the cold and pitiless
Mr. Fay of Arts ’27, who brought to the discussion a becoming seriousness and, with dictionary meanings and solid arguments, confounded the previous speaker and troubled the next.
Mr. Fay also declared himself a,man who had
come to college to get problems to solve, which
statment was followed by silent prayer on the
part of the audience that the Mathematics
professor might not be found wanting.

This speaker was followed by Mr. Taylor,
Arts ’25, overflowing with feel ng for his grandchildren Now indeed did we see the future
clearly—the frightful consequences of our soft
lives, of the mania for speed and of the dangerous progress of Science. Particularly did we
shudder at the thought of the deplorable lengths
then added to History I.

The last of the regular speakers, Wilfred
Creighton of Arts’ 26 was very clear on one
points—his firm and unalterable opposition to
everything Mr. Davidson had san. As a whole,
this speech gave evidence that ir. Creighton
had not given to the question the earnest study
which it deserved: | 7

Following the new custom: the debate was
then declared open and there were quite a number of speeches, of varying excellence. It is, we

’ think, to be regretted that the subject discover
ed in certain of these speakers a paucity of wit,
which they tried to overcome by the telling-of
jokes, Scotch and otherwise. . The audichce appreciated indeed ther earnest wish to be amusing but failed to see any such connection with
the matter under debate as is usually considered
a desirable accompaniment of such efforts.
It was, altogether, a most enjoyable debate.
Many of the speakers were inexperienced an
showed both ability and promise. Sodales is

Majestic Cigar Store,
IS WELL KNOWN

” COLLEGE STUDENTS
For a oe Pete

  
 

P 3, My ; re
is “ a « * _ 7 1 . “7
i i a ft; = rs é y'
ares Ea /
‘ hay

——oo—or—ro—oaeaeaeaeaeaeaeaeaea—e——— lle e——eeeeeeEeEeEooe—eE—E—™T—E™e™e

HAYES—HUNTER

The wedding at one o’clock Wednesday
afternoon, in St Andrew’s Church, of Alice E.
Hunter and J. Bertram Hayes was of keen interest to the Dalhousie student body and the
student body of the Nova Scotia Technical College. Alice, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. K.
Hunter. 152 Henry Street, graduated from Dal
housie last year. She was for two years a
member of the Students’ Council, and was also
President of Delta Gamma: Bertram Hayes, a
son of Dr. and Mrs, Joseph Hayes, Oxford
Street, who is a civil engineer by professiun,
was formerly a student of Dalhousie. Mt. A. and
the N. S. Technical College. He now ‘8 manager of the Stone Webster Co., of Boston, ‘at
Fort Madison, lowa.

The church was decorated with ferns and
palms mingled with yellow and white chrysanthemums, Rev D. MacOdrum performing
the ceremony. The bride and groom were unattended. The bride was given in marriage by
her father, she wore a brown suit and brown
hat touched with gold. Her corsage bouquet
was of I lies of the valley and rosebuds.

Immediately after the ceremony Mr. and
Mrs. Hayes left for a trip to Boston, intending
to leave. that city on Sunday for Fort Madison,
lowa, where they will take up their residence.
The Dalhousie students wish this popular couple every happiness in ther married life.

 

Thursday the 18th for the purpose of discussing the Dental Dance.

After considerable discussion the following
commiittee was appointed. Sandy McDonald,
Danny McDonald, Hugh Eaton, Aubrey Tupper and one from the first year whose identity has not yet been disclosed.

The above committee were given carte
blanche as regards the dance and with such an
able group the general feeling is that the dance
will bé a success, ‘

Another meeting of the Dental Scobs was
held in the Munroe Room on Tuesday and the
following officers were elected for the year.

President; T- W. T. Browne, Vice-President :
W. G. Willigar, Sec’y.-Treas.: Danny McDonald, Official Bouncer: Sandy McDonald.

Sandy and Earl wish through these columns
to thank “Jehi Rehm” for the kind invitation
to tea on Sunday at Shirreff Hall, but regret

that their engagements before Xmas are full

up for Sunday afternoon. - |
_ X-Ray

—

 

 

especially anxious to develop new material
‘those who have started are encouraged to go

on and, for the others, we can assure a symp-—

athetic welcome of the difficult first attempts.

0 et es

+. oh i ie 5 sata « +4 7: wd
4.) 4 ’ fs >. e.% + 3
¥ ‘8 tit Oh eS ;
,
2

es 2 ‘ ; ? ¥ p=:

a nee 7 i e FY
LOUU | asn rr
- ms, a 34 es ‘ : '

IW Many W 7G Can YOu tan

aah ag # al ae y rg zt ‘ep. a

7% r i ‘ ‘ ‘ fi a ‘ 4 ; i Oo

\ a a

aa}
, i. ae ke a
F hoy iS °
a 7

  

1 A) F H

- od e
Sees te eo oe Orem
Il eKIN. GOAP”)§ e6an |
; re Se eee: 2 Le
A - 4 +. te, ‘ ad - 7 oF 7 F

  
 
  

   
 

. ee Sit P Canteay Tie Ri at ee «T,
YB ae ‘ eae ae BP : nt ee 1” em Pt eA kad re hen me
a de TP re ee Re AS ci!
i i. " ¥ ee op ae iy “yoy hage deans! : 7 ™ * ‘
E e “hey,

 

“enti

See that the Engineers won their first two
basketball games? Atta boy our team, keep
up the good work. How about some rooting
men, you have a good yell why not use it?

Saturday afternoon the draftng room will
be open to the public to view a work of art
there exhibited. Some very striking portraits
of the surveyors at Truro have been gathered
into one large picture by Prof. Copp. No ad
Sunday afternoon the drafting room will
be taken up in aid of the S: O. L. fund for
Engineers. (S. O. L. is the Surveyors Overworked League).

Last Monday week the Engineering Institute of Canada held a dinner at the “Green
Lantern” on the occasion of the presentation of
a charter to the Halifax branch of that society.
Songs and speeches were in order until 8 p,
m, when the company adjourned to the C. E. |.
where Frazer Keith, Dominion Secy, delivered
a very interesting and instructive lecture on the
Wembley exhition, illustrated by several
beautifully coloured slides. A short tour of the
British Empire would justly describe it. The
Canadian exhibit was considered to be the best
and the Palace of Engineering was by far the
largest and most important of the buildings.
Get that, you Canadian engineers.

There’s a good opportunity for Dalhousie
Engineers to become members of the E. I. C.
and participate in the benefits and protection
of this society. Moreover you get four letters
after your name, thus Mr. Blankety Blank, S.
E. I: C. Come on, show some interest in the
most important profession ‘n the world.

 

MEDICAL NOTES

 

We dont know just how to describe the Medical Banquet which was held in the Green
plaints Now as regards the size m The
say that it was a most enjoyable and successful affair and that’ it surpassed even the
brightest anticipat‘ons, is to put it mildly.

Some one hundred medical sudents sat
down at 630 to an excellent repast and from
the first an atmosphere of the utmost goodfellowship was apparent. The President of the
Society, Edgar Kelley, presided and there were

esent as the guests of the Society, Drs. A.

. Nicholls, John Cameron, O. S. Gibbs,
Gorden Young, Donald MacKenzie.

Mr. Kelley outlined the purpose of the meet
‘ng which was-to stimulate some activity in the
Society and if possible to revivify it ‘nto a
really live organization. With this purpose in
view, Dr. Nicholls, Dr. Cameron and Dr. Gibbs
were called upon to g've a few suggestions for
rovements of the society and to tell how

  
 

    

lucted in other uni-°
characterized by great ent music furnished by a number of the boys.

7 4 , . 7 5! ak +. F at > ae
: r= ‘+ 1 oe
e factor which, with every- PRING Se Nr
oe } , ue é - ¥ ' -< 18 S RING A EN 4 & oo x
; Sak . c — P ————/ Ss , ' ~ 4 — } » + 7 ® “ake a, i ea i ye
im ‘ , fou Tag tn om x Beene iag TEN fH
i : & Ww ; gt. 4 i paw, tibet \; Bt x 4 ae
* eee ied s r . \4 7 fo?’ &
7 : Fin - a ts 4
a ‘ F

S ae rs : rr
re ns a x , vy
‘

 
 
     

  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

stories convulsed the meeting with laughter.

A committee was appointed to draw up a constitution for the Med ta! Society and it is hoped
that immediately upon the opening of the pos:
Xmas term regular meetings will commen ec
At some of these meetings at least it is planned
that ‘case histories will be — discussed
and diagnoses submitted by different stud
cents, thus adding interest to the meet nes and
at the same tne giving an invaluable opporpunity to the students for their personal de
velopment along the lines of public speak ng:

writing of these, etc.
The latter part of the evening was occupied

: +e 4

Psychology. Dr. Symons dealt with the re
lation of Psychology to medicine in his usual
clear and teresting style- Those students who
have taken or are taking the course of lectures

given by Dr. Symons in medical Psychology °

count themselves most fortunate in receiving
this course which was introduced for: the first
time last year. Those who had never heard
Dr. Symons were loud in their envy of their

. more fortunate fellow-students who have been
or are prévileged to take classes with him.

Mention should be made of the very excel
5 ¥
4 > s 9 ¢
“1

mee th

y ;
¥ é — rin A
he he ea eb, Se ee A,
a = \ ” 4 eo cee } i b ae -,
TT, “
|. f 4 "

a A

, t:)
“ia! Se ul SF Be eee ; Athy :- 4 7. aa ae mt" ae a au
j vow rc Oe “yi 3 ; ‘ ltée * pel "hy i note a e* ae

 

 

as i = Ae wlth a e ¥ eo et pee ee es
7), nhl es 7 fi on” Rs A’ i ify x + Pay - = Ge

    
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
    
   
  
   
  
    
    
 
  
  
   
 
   
    
 
     
     
 
   
    
 
    

~ BIRKS SG
for Class Jewellery —

Gifts :
of
‘y Gold .
and
Silver

The Latest Novelties From
The Worlds Best Markets

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
HALIFAX

 
  
 

 
   
  

  
    
  
   
    
   
  

 
      
   
  

    
 

 

    

 

   
  

  
  

4
"

  
 

Gauvin & Gentzel. j
PHOTOGRAPHERS e
Special rates to Students

.

 

i

yt ay ¥

  
  
   
  

 
   
    
   

t i) pd

an LY, " 5 ae
=. te oe ea, Macey ye ieee
} ee VE cate eM. alts 4. ie ph ee “
Th te. et Le ee a eA a
eA TL ee, uk, Clade | eee pe
. a ‘“ el Te ha, a a f om * t rs
- : oe 
|

Shirreff Hall

At half-past five one Saturday afternoon,
fleet-footed messengers flew through the house,
ordering us to appear at once in the lower hall.
There we found five creatures whom We took
for Dal boys, at any rate proteces of the Fratassembled ‘n the doorway. They seemed to
have dressed ‘pn a great rush, and to have met
with several wcidents on ihe way to the Hall,
only had fe:cotten fo rethye their hats
Something was wrong, oy sey, for they not
but also persisted in kecping their wibretla up
Did they export us to ‘ar flour at them?

The order for dancing was given and Harold
Robertson was sent to the piano, He got off
easily, that being one of his natural elements.
The boys showed surprising reluctance in choosing partners, but Walter Darby soon snatched
one, when warned that the last to choose would
have to propose afterwards. He probably feared the victim might sue him for breach of promise. For one who can’t dance, Jack MacQuar
™\ rie acquitted himself nobly, although we did
otice a slight resemblance to a mechanical
doll, and a total absence of grace when he was
forced to turn a corner. They say Kay Hamilton is a woman-hater, but he promised us to
come again. It was very kind of him, but we
hope that next time he will look a little diffnt.
Before departng, they all thanked us Tor
the good time they had had. Harry O'Brien
was well away for a good speech, but after
murmuring something about wit and beauty,
his nerves collapsed, and he was forced to rea We thank the Frat authorities for show ng
us these specimens, and would like to assure
them that any further exhibitions will be joy
fully attended: AG)
Anna Grant had a most wonderful inspira‘tion the other night! After vainly trying, to
he get in touch with Pine Hill for twenty minutes,
and finding the line busy everytime, she
eer thought she walk downstairs and try to phone
there. But poor Anna—Central still replied
“Line busy”, and she turned away discouraged.»
Per brilliant idea was hopelessly ruined, and
the mathematical gen'us involved, utterly
-» smashed. “We're sorry Anna,—better luck
eee ~ next time!”
We are loath to confess it, but to a few of
~~ -our number, the bell ringing at any hour sugee gests only one thing. Even Ex-Fire Chief
‘- Garcin was convinced that the gong which —
sounded last Monday night announced breakfast in spite of that fact that her watch and
> lock both sa‘d 11.30, that pitch darkness pre -yailed outside, and that her sleep. had termia: violently. 5
i wi co has it also that the apparently simple formula: “Turn on your light, and close
Pe, your window when the fire bell r'ngs”’, has proved too complicated for the majority to master.
Margaret Robertson was obliged to return to
| Bi ser room three times before the correct combn as obtained.
| tae aus teapec at least, it is very nice to have
class parties held at the Hall. \. Those neople
AacMullen

;

  

      
     
    
   
 
    
    
      
 
   
 

 
 

   

 
    
     
   
   
 
 
  

 
 

 
 
  
    
   
 
 
  
   

)
*
Fn
‘i
as: r

 

"
i

rank

 

 
 
 
 

  

       
   
 

   
 
  

. 4 T. ver
+ aoe
tn Lay : <i i - J’ hi i.
ec Tt aetna = aia!
3 , | Pa’
8

= ; 7
a ey - bs j ae a a i :

7 . > =A Pe yesh ‘ a se f
P= se: my ee tes Ri eatin Ae:

 
   
 

,*

  

see ass

+

   

 

THE DALHOUSIE. GAZETTE

PRI TPN : ‘
cur‘ous to ‘know just —

ie

Se
meal

 

S. C. A. Church Service.

“What through the spicy breezes blow
soft o’er Ceylon’s Isle

Where every prospect pleases and only
man 4s vile’’.

At the S. A. A. students service in St.
Andrew’s Church, Sunday night, Mr. Williams
thus answered the query of many, “From
where does He come?” This speaker who belongs to the country “where heathen in their
blindness bow down to wood and stone”, chose

from St. John’s Gospel “I am come
tes ees might have life and that they might
have % more abundantly.” Freedom to live
his life, his own way is what every man wants.
Mr Williams pointed out that the strange way
Jesus said we should find this abundant life.
“He that loses h’s life shal! find it and he that
findeth his life shall lose it”. A very applicable illustration was then used by Mr. Williams.
He said that one day in the London Zoo he had
seen a little boy in a perambulator pushed along
by a nurse. The lad wished to go into the
lions cage but the nurse told him it was el
dangerous and pushed him along. The little
lad on being thus treated said “] wish Dad were
here, he’d take me in”. If the people had the
very great faith in God that this lad had’ n
his Dad, or if people allowed themselves to be
pushed along by someone as this lad was,— to
which of these illustrations does the reader ap
ly himself. |
: ‘tigated of India, Dr. Will'ams said there
is a great revival going on at the present time.
The greatest leader there is Ghandi who is in
reality the uncrowned k'ng of India. By raising his finger he can sway the people however
he will and it is a man who follows the ideals
of Christ and realizes that violent revolution
does not work.

The evidence of this revival ‘s seen every
where throughout India and is marked in the
litreary world. Mr. Williams read an extract
from “The Renassance of Young India” which
he considers “a masterful review” by @ man
who has spent ten years among students in
Madras. This extract showed amazing progress
in Indian thought on life and he says that most
of it has been during the past five years. Out
of a population of. 330,000,000 in India 4,000,
000 are Christians.

Rabidranath Tagone has written the follow‘ng in his “Gitanguli” (Songs of Worship).

Where the mind is without fear and the head

is held high; |

Where knowledge, is free;

Where the world has n°t been broken up into

fragments by narrow domestic walls,

Where. words come out from the depths o”

  
 
    
 

Where tireless striving stretches its arms (o>

liv life ” Aga m he says ow
a ai } ; a ean ss * i, r ham ; Fs b
= . ¢ es bi =f -_ ner
v 4 , |

 

Pine Hill Post

Yes, Ted Cumm'ng started it. No one now
denies that he left off shaving his upper lip at
least oné month before Edwin- Johnstone decided to grow his moustache. Undoutedly Ted
would have been the instigator of the new
“Moustache Club” had he not been hindered
by the fact that he could never succeed "n growing more than thirteen and a half hairs on the
left side of his. upper lip. All this of course Is
ancient history. Both had been experimenting
for months. It was not till yesterday that Edwin
finally achieved his object, when Bert Moore
asked him if there were not some hairs on his
lip. Just at this psychological moment, Harold
Coffin, happening along, declared that only
last night-a girl had told him that kissing a man
without.a moustache was like eating an egg
without salt’ Thereupon like gallant gentlemen
they decided to organize a moustache club for
the benefit of the fair sex. Bill Richardson
welcomed it as a god-send, saying that if
a moustache made such a difference he might
be able tc regain some of his ost prest ge.
The organization already claims a membership of about twenty. Still do not be too
optimistic girls. It may be several months before any result will be apparent.

Murk McLean will be a nerve shattering experience the other day. He was walking alon,
Barrington St, thinking about the forthcoming

Singsong at Shirreff Hall and little dreaming
that the Fates were planning mischief. Without
warning, he was accosted by three maidens in
distress, who asked him for the requis'te car-fare to take them home. Almost overcome by
the honour done him, Murk thrust his hand in
his pocket and pulled out a quarter. Alas! It
was all he had. The rest is left to the imagination:

Mr. Clarke. spent several days with us last
week and we enjoyed his company very much.
He talked with Chester Sutherland, Prodie
Taylor, Herb’e Davidson and Jarvis McCurdy
without the Pope having to remind him of
“Quiet Hours”. “M*rabile dictu.”

The merchandise committee is very busy

these days supervising the various venders of
apples, chocolate bars, hair tonic and safety

Harrison expects to do an extenoe eel in hair tonic now that The “Moustache Club” is oraganized. aes ibe

The Pine Hill cat wants to ktfow :-What |
girls meant. when they debarred Bill Richard
son from playing ground hockey because he
Fee tant var > meta

was too fas

as

 

 

Speaking of his people he made seme amazing

~ ‘ 3

‘statements—“We do not care for dress, for

iz - =

  
  
 
 
  

  
 

Litas

  

 

Seana elite eae

 

Three Seniors and One Other

This is the inside story of a hunting expedition. There are some wrong ideas of it floating around, that must be cleared up. In the
first place, Squib did not ask a cullud lady
if he could sit beside her, driving out to Preston; instead, all four climbed up behind and
sat on the load of swill. And concerning that
partridge we missed, that was sitting up in a
birch tree watching four tough guys in Dalhousie sweaters trying to sneak up on it: they
say that P-ll fired three times at it, but it was
only twice; and the reason the others missed
with shotguns (we all fired) was because the
light was in our eyes.

It was dark when we left the road, for the
woods—with ten miles to go. The first five
miles might have been worse, for we had a
path; but from that point on, in the words of
Napoleon, the army marched on its stomach.
A candle in an old tin can was our headl ght;
every five minutes it went out, there would be
a minute of darkness, and then, with the candle lit again, Squib would watch the army
emerge from the under brush on all sides—
forward! ‘n spite of the candle, Don did a
flying tackle on one of those spruce trees,
The tree is stl! there, but weaker. Constellations were particularly bright that night.

The camp looked pretty good to us when
we reached it at last, and had a fire going. And
afterward when a full moon came up over the
lake, and there were two pounds of beef steak
inside us—we could only sing “My Girl’s a
Crackerjack” as sentimentally as __ possible,
and then take our boots off and clmb in the

Next day Phil got a couple of rabbits
(which he took back to his frat house) and a
porcupine; but he couldn’t get close enough
to shoot a squirrel:

On the way home Don was behind the rest,
when the three in front heard his shotgun bang,
and looked up in tame to see a rabbit (pariridge are out of season) coming down in five
pieces and a cloud of feathers. This is supposed to be a record.

When we were nearly out of the woods we
stopped for supper, and afterward lay around
the fire on the leaves, singing all the songs
(hymns at a premium) that we knew. There
was only one song sentimentally fit to end
with: and we sang ‘Hail, Haél’— and put the
fire out. Next day there were four very tired
and very sleepy young men making a pretense

of work. ‘This sleepiness, and the efforts ot

the faculty to overcome it, can only be expressed with proper force by Omar; “And Balaam—
that great

’

 
 

  

   
  
 
 

 
 

SS nn eee ee

unter—The Wild Ass stamps o’er ~
his head, but cannot break his sleep.”

| mending done

| from home

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
 
 

College Stands of To-day Are High

 

That the college man of today takes athletics
football in particular, more sanely than in his
time, was the opinion of Booth Tarkington, “93,
when interviewed during his recent v'sit to
Princeton: The great American author was a
leader in undergraduated life at Princeton,
having been prominent in changing the Triangle Club to ts present form. Speaking of
scholastic conditions, he said, “I think we had
a very easy time compared to what is demanded of the students today.”

In former days, according to Mr. Tarkington,
any one would get up in the crowd and lead a
or the fans would call for some one. “The
cheering is about as noisy now, but it was more
spontaneous before. We yelled when we wanted to and when the game made us, whereas
the yelling is done now when the leaders
specify.

“It is harder to stay in college than it used
to be,” he continued, turning to another side
of college l'fe. “The curriculum is quite different and you have to be more of a scholar
now. | think most alumni of my time are very
glad to have been here when they were, and
would have little hope of staying here under
the present standards.”—McGil! Daily.

Criticism—Constructive
and Otherwise

“Three issues of The Axaverian Weekly have
made their appearance and needless te say
criticism, good and bad, has been rece‘ved.
The paper isn’t big enough; there isn’t enough
humor; many of the articles are Jong and uninteresting. These are but a few of the com
pla nts:
Xaverian, we can only say that at present our
finances do not permit us to enlarge it. In all
probability. The Xaverian will contain eight

' pages next year, when our affairs will be in

better shape. Now about grinds and articles
Everybody knocks, but nobody helps. During
the past month everything which appeared in

The Xaverian with the exception of two articles, was written by the staff. Yet this ‘s supposed to be a students’ publication! While
good suggestions are always acceptable. contributions are also greatly appreciated. Write
something, anyth ng, and pass it along”!

The above may equally be said of the
Gazette. |

Maar

 

DALHOUSIE STUDENTS—

-{ Do you know that we have inaugurated a
service whereby YOU can have your
well as your

laundering? «| ;
‘This is particular benefit to students away

who Pagal aa to having

r Mother's Service Will Attend » All

 

 
    
  
 

‘4

as | <a
“aT

 

Now asregards to the size of The ‘

 
 

eaten ee

   

  

CALALELLA ALAM LEMMA AAA hehe

   
       
     
   
   

 

 

ALLL LALLA LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL CLAN

_ Economize in your Pressing by buying »

  
   
   
    
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
     
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
    
 
      
  

Take a tip from the cognoscenti and give
her Moirs Chocolates. It is the open
sesame to every girl’s affections—especially
the new Bridge Box that makes a dlightful
“fifth partner,”

MOIRS CHOCOLATES

Famous for Their Goodness

 

A. & W MACKINLAY LTD; |
Stationers q

A complete line of Manuscripts ‘a
Books in various bindings and i,

Loose Leaf Note Books kept in
stock.

Depot for Swan and Parker Duofold

Fountain Pens

Eversharp & Duro-Point Pencils

137 GRANVILLE STREET |

           
     
     
   

Ladies Hand Bags

The most exclusive and_ finest {
Christmas Gifts which delight. }
Long years of service. Very moderately priced. oe

$2.00 to $29.50

KELLY’S

LIMITED
GRANVILLE ST.

   
 
 
 
 

U-NEAT PRESSING
PARLORS

ORIGINAL BOB LEARY,
Manager |

      
     
     
 
   
  
 
  

  
 

 
  
  

Strip of Four Tickets for $200. | 4

     
 
   

 

: < .
~ 3 e's es ae = Me Wa ot = Ue ; vo ba
Ss : . oe ‘dy iia

= 7 f ; ‘ ~ eS

n Me Le > ae x [ =7's ie ‘ Wt=2 i a oad si

* er ¥. ey wes 0 ae AS ek 1, ae

» . 7 ; -_ in ae, 7 4 1 :
an ! . —~" HeY CTEAWN,M
4 | td ' ,
2
‘

f 5 wT » . «= :
nt a 4 Sa Ss ~ i _= - Jt Pet Se oe in as
ee ee eee ‘
      

 

 

 

 

   
  
   
  

 

_ | YOUR HOCKEY TEAM

af i '

se. Sweaters and Stockings in “Dal” colors
_ 4 should be ordered now, to ensure their be
_ | ing here when the season opens.

oe A ull range of Hockey Equipment is on dis
| Specials Terms To All Clubs
get our prices.

~ . Come in
3 HH. 5 INE

  

a SA wy

 

 

  

XN, | 2 training.

ay eden » , a)

Fis Se ae, eM a Fl
i eae car wall ize ux hel
en is 4 i ’ i Fr  P- ° i ¥ 4 7 ‘
eS te regs Cif weir tay! Lr amend Ma
4 5 * oie : mF
nd , 4 me ht €, Se i fia é wis i leg te i a r
ae hed ON ne al os OM a re Pane a ty
rr , ue 2) inc, aed we eee oe a 3 Pa a oy »
Ai! r “ey! = ” rs Tv | ae Th hae tn
a) ; [ a Pd . i m 7 +

 

 

 

 

 

season, he Tuesday hour be given over for

Inter-faculty games. |
It is said that Dalhousie
Football players, that most of them are tra‘ned
before they come here. _ Inter-faculty Football might remedy this defect.
cated of course that Interfaculty practi

 

i,

a 4 the

does not make

It is not advo- —

practise but oes
the place of First Team tise but there are ||
| many who will not tun out for the latter who

=

t= rhs
a ee eres
We Pe,
a i te
Tit mp Lez

 

 

 

 

and first class barbers in attendance.

ye ee a an 2
(a Tae aca ;
+>, Sa th'h ig sees i -, LI mre

ak Ue re 7 : eT. hed .
ee PO ON OS

a ts ig ,

‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

wo: ‘ ‘ ; 7 Nk, pel a Fo nee eer Geren: ’ ma ney” r ms Ww = i” ‘ . re a
6 THE DALHOUSIE, GAZETTE 4
GIRLS’ SPORTS
i ALL
Dalhousie Note Paper The Retr Mah Scotts Men’s Wear AN DUNLOP IS HOCKEY CAPT
For the second time this season the boys
Die stamped in two color crest showed their superiority as ground hockey. sts 30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD ee eset en snnennpeeneeerinrin ee tn ss
Envelopes to match over the girls’ team. On Friday afternoon, Nov. ‘
P 21, they waded through muck and managed to Headquarters for Dal. Boys | Hockey Meeting. Inter-faculty Football I
Also shoot five goals, four of which were scored ee oat 7 . nter-faculty Basketball
in the gathering darkness. Both teams played A splendid stock of furnishings of all At the Hockey Meeting last week, Allan DunNote books, Swan pens, Eiversharp Pen- well and it was a fairly evenly matched game kinds, Winter Overeoats, Hats and lop, defence player on Dal’s First Tam, was hitee @ tas ih tal inna : Eno; ea
cils and high classed stationary of all despite the score. The boys played a fine Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suit- unanimously chosen to captain the team for Law : a te Se eee ee f basketba veotae cam Is 8 speedy ae
’ as individuals but did not have as good com- cones and Bags. the coming season The new captan is fot oa _ rts met on Saturday last, the latter 9 asketball on Wednesday the 19th at the
kinds. bination work as the girls. Miss Mitchell re- only a good player but is as well a capable score ae ha the entellectuals by a a a ore the Eng neers, who have
= fereed. ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS director and should be a big factor in making born each tear Ai eae was Fast and stub Ps : : ; = ee in Te 1000
; Then, to complete'w: very successful season, Dal’s team a winning one. ts nk oo a Lo worth of the ace ne a ~_ record of last year and
Faulkner s B okstore, the girls’ hockey team with the boy’s team were DON’T FORGET WE'RE ON THE _ The team started training under Mr. Sterling sanity of the referee. es t ‘ioe eh - tee u Per re
16 Spring Garden Rd. invited to the home of Jack and Art Attwood CORNER in the Gym Monday night and have chosen tes ion by one or sth ¢ the ee ere 2N s
for a‘dance. It is a fine thing to belong to the _ Monday and Thursday evenings as the'r regu- ie re uohald’ bs other of the teams, but was ENGINEERS—Hewat, Allen, Brown, Horne,
Dal Girls’ Ground Hockey team, eh girls! lar training periods. | decided ere ee ee ee ee Se ee
ee Sim Gass is ee making arrange- TI r ial awit : ioe eo Morrison, Richardson,
a O's . G: ; Ss for the season’s work and the general out- le first period opened with a rush, and about ‘-OUSMan, Kerr,
Dalhousie vs H. C. A. l-rom “nz tO Sixty,--- look for hockey is a bright one. two minutes after the whistle the Arts pack
Clarence yale Cribbled the ball ove eT Tae —
Bob Johnson’s Girls’ basketball got off to a good start on the: Rage He Thee NS Gentes fae: qeenter Hockey me tee dais ait Se tess pial on it for the ane sua tae be ‘ven te Play became individual, and just before the
| Thursday evening when _ the first practice oars necomplishment are the ey, who chosen as captain of the Maples Team of Bos- converted. The remainder of the period Was end of the game Px arson of Law went over the
Two Barber Shops match of the season was played between Dal- — We : marked by fast runs by the Arts three-quarter in the. ccntre of a number of embracing arms
housie and the Halifax Academy: Two teams EQUIP Morrison is making a name for himself in | l'ne, which were only stopped by deterinined and aficr the wriggling man had been disenFIRST CLASS SERVICE from each side were picked for the occasion ' S. hockey cireles and his friends in Dalhousie ¢flort. The Law team was working less snooth- tangled, no try was allowed. in spite of the
and a good stiff practice was the result. The MENT wish him SUCCESS in his new post. ly than Arts, but playing a hard game. Hickey, persuasive powers of the law Att ran The
score of the first team was 16—6, and of the Mr: A. C. Millie, of Hal'fax, is the new Presi. Of Law made several long gains by bucking ‘and game ended shortly afterwards with .a_ final
MAJESTIC THEATRE BUILDING AND second team 18—6, both in favour of Dal- Heiss te dent of the M. P. B. A> A. U. of ©... Mr. Punting The period ended without further score of 6—0. :
COR. GEORGE AND BARRINGTON STS. housie. Millie’s positioni s not an easy one, but he Sore. Law clearly showed the results of lack of
One great drawback to the Dalhousie team CRAGG BROS. CO. LTh IS epommeses as a competent official who should The final period was, if anything, faster than Practice, while Manager McOdrum’s aay :
scission ‘s that there is such a small amount of mat- Seeinaes ic beta meet with success in the office. oY the first. Both teams at times got away fo,  ¢!a’nng methods had their effects on the Arts
: 7 erial from which to draw. Surely among two : | The D, A. A. C. assures him of its hearty good runs. Arts were following un in better ‘eam. For the past fortnight he has had his
Dun’t Neglect Your Appearance hundred girls there are more exper enced FOR ANYTHING YOU REED IN co-operat on. style than Law, but the’r three quarter line team out at 6 a.m. doing a fast mile on a cold
| players then have turned out. An extra time EVERY LINE OF SPORT “ spoiled more than cne run by forward passing, Wet cinder track—as a result they showed more
nas been arranged for practise, namely, on Fri- Arts and Engineers Won. Some good tackling was seen on both sides, Sand than in their previous game, and by beata” day at 4.30. ee eta Campbell starring in this department of mig Law en necessitate developed championship
In the Interfaculty Basketball. vames en Sat. ‘He game: Arts had the advantage of a tem- form on Saturday:
Phone Sack. 139: Furi.ished Rooms : urday the Engineers defeated Dentistry by a ‘Ty and about ten minutes after the period The | ine-up. |
nes | Future of Football. Dont Buy Cheap Shoes score of 13-10, Hewat, forward, and as opened Allie Thompson, who was playing a | LAW—Fullback, Morton: quarters, Hickey, |
; ‘ Why should you—when Wallace’s offer eee os Woe. Sagineert while Dun- “ged ee ee i ‘ loose ot and ie ior Pong ¢ Kerr ;t three quarters, SnodI» , Several of the Senor Football Team players ; op was high scorer for Dentistry: in between the posts after a pretty run, e grass, Wilson, Moore. Richardson; forwards, 7
Mader S Cate vhio have witnessed Inter-faculty competitions osha er tne Arts won from Medicine 12—7 in a hard tempt to convert failed. Shortly afterwards Pearson, Covghlin, Chew, Bethune, Wool. Mr, ©
| have expressed: surprise at seeing such a fine fought game. Arts were awarded a free k ck, and Creighton Stirling refereed. 5
| | : brand of football displayed there, and have jf} Shoes with Snap—Dash——never failing The line up. dropped the ball over, but without waiting” ~~ ARTS—Fullback, Piercey; quarters, Creigh q
| ‘ 15 Granville Street ‘remarked that these teams are an excellent fj Quality. Every pair built for service, ARTS—Sperry, Richardson, McLellan, Mac‘ ¢ither for the linesman or the whistle. The kick ton, Tompson, Sverry: three quarters Miller, a
! 7 ‘training school for future First Team players. and wil hold their shape to the last. ao Doyle, Ross, Frame. was taken over again and no score resulted. raser, Rankine, Chipman; forwards, Harring» 4
ti. (Foot of Blowers St.) It is unfotunate that the Iner-faculty Teams Try them at ie eek Gk upper, Dunlop, Johnson, | aw now attacked with vigour and hammered ton, Stevenson, Godsoe, Delaney, Sedgewick, ina. Si cities . Mawes Restle cannot obtain more time for games er ry $7.50, $9. t $10 soe, McQuarrie, Dobson. their way to their opponents end of the field. Dunphy, Macdonald. Be.
ar | F I Ities, the on . » to , | | | oe
a Lobsicrs our Specialty nee Bile ute te oat "parlods on Tues. a
be | " : days and Thursdays and these hours, until late WALLACE BROS e
fe Besc Mid-day Dinner in Halifax in the season, are taken up by Senior team prac- a an
- tises. So Inter-faculty Football cannot start 523 BARRINGTON ST. a
se, until these practises are finished ma : an ex- — ss
he ceptional year, such as last year, that sees a ‘i SS od Wa oat B
aaa successfully completed schedule. | | : | Wg
fe: Let Now the Senior teams, by anon, ot ~ fact ner : By
ek . >.) ie that they are given their dinner in the Murray | me
(fee P hinneys Limited Homestead, are able to practise every day of HIGH CLASS BARBER | a
ae, | ' the week. So it might not be out of place to a 1 a
oa Equip | suggest that after a few weeks practise in each Up to date Shop, with four chairs, | 3 a

    
- 4 ¥..
yee 4.

« a

ne

q

ke hii 12-2 40c
=

MacLeod, Balcom Ltd.

: Druggists
s x
x ©
: FIVE :
PLACES zx

OF

| SAFETY !
S.LSTINS HO cceremeccen’

 

 

Phone 51141. P. O. Box 718

SURGICAL |
INSTRUMENTS

XMAS PRESENTS

For The ©

Doctor, Nurse & Student

Order Your Gift Early
Surgical Supplies & Sundries Co.

Room 5 Green Lantern Bldg
Halifax, Canada,

 

WTI ddddadiiiiiilliblslhbbishih an

|‘ ASTORIA’

The College Man’s Street Shoe
Spats and Hosiery to match
“Life-buoy” Overshoes and
Rubbers

2 SALAM

MLL iLLiLvLn

ine Woes

TUTTLE’S

3 Stores
Barrington St. Spring (arden Road f
And Dartmouth 7

| The TARRY INN

Dainty Lunches Served Quickly

CONFECTIONERY COOLING DRINKS
age CREAM AFTERNOON TEA

‘+. ‘ ‘ '

= sare
=

oon ae fe

 

The S. C. A. Bun Fight.

 

The first S. C. A. Bun Fight (mixed) of the
term was held in St. Andrew’s Church gymnasium Tuesday night at six o'clock. To all those
keenly interested in the S. C. A: the meeting
was considered “a hugé success.” Would that
we knew the impression of the new-comers.

Whether the students were attracted by the
feed, by the gals—or boys, by Mr. Clarke or
by the discussion to be held, is a question not
yet settled; anyway about seventy-five or more
of the students were on hand Tuesday night!
“to enjoy what they would. As is usual at such
repasts, several of the. table groups displayed
(or tried to display) some of their original wit
on ther neighbours. The noise of songs, puns
and—eating—was prevalent throughout the supver hour. After Cliff Grant 'ed the singing of
“Old King Cole” and “Green grow the rushes
ho!”, and Bob Scott “All Hail to The Dalhousie” the students were given an account of
the week-end conference at Mt Allison. Jarvis
McCurdy very ably expressed his impressions
saymg that he was disappointed in his expectations of being excited emotion among the
conference delegates, although he thought
that what he received from the discussions and
talks was of much more value than this excited
emotion—or spontaneous pep. He remarked
on the sociability of all the students there—
espec’ally Mt. A. In all he thought the conference very worth while. Marge Mosher then
gave her impressions. She. too spoke of the
jovial atmosphere, and of Dal. taking a prominent part in everything. She spoke of the sincerity of every person in the discussions, of
the idea that one must act on their convictions,
and that one should get to give not keep. She

also gave a brief outlhe of the European Relief as discussed at the conference.

Mr. Clarke the’ National Secretary of the S.
C. A. then spoke a few words telling the students of the national movement, what S. C. A.
really is, the general student problems in the
Dominion, and the attitude of other countries
to our Canada. He urged the students to hear
Mr. Williams, and also to have a chat with him
when he comes this week end: ‘

A short discussion then followed on how to
continue the City Home Work, impressions of

Bible Groups and criticisms of S.C.A. The

meeting closed with silent prayer.
It is hoped that another such bun fight w ll
ARRTRINE in the near future.

| Colwell’ Brothers |

‘LIMITED |
453 BARRINGTON STREET |

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

WARNING
Anybody found laughing at anything in this

column will be referred to Dr. Hattie for
mental examination.

 

Question: Dear Editor, | was out with a
young man last night and drank four quarts of
hard cider, did | do wrong?

Answer: | don’t know, can’t you remember? ”

 

Bo: Do you know how the mice got into
Shirreff Hall?
Zo: Naw.

 

Patient:— (In infirmary) Can | have th's
tooth extracted without pain?

Dawson :—Well you might try but I don’t
think you can get away with it.

Who was the demostrator that put a piece
of apparatus out of commission while lecturing
to the 4th Year Dentals on the proper care of it?

Husband :—Nora do you know anything of
my w.fe’s whereabouts?
Nora:— Yes, sor; I put thim in the wash

4 .

A suggestion for Sodales. Resolved that we
would be a healthier race if the doctors opened
more windows and fewer patients,

We wonder why E. McN. thinks that everyone should get married alone: _We don’t disagree with her but we should like to know how
it is done.

Perhaps this is the long-sought solut’on of the
Divorce Problem!

Freshette: What’s this | hear about an S$. P.
C. A. bull-fight

Senior: What? You mean S. C. A. Bunfight, don’t you? .
Freshette: O, is that it? What wili ‘hey

d°—throw buns at each other?

Exit Senior.

The rodents at Shirref Hai! wll have a
miserable existence in the presence of so mpi
of their natural. enemies.

 

ac do you go'to the Strand so often?
ee a ballet dance) Oh |
ust for ft

| CLOTHES SEEN AT

 
