iene Hew ae»

a ”
as
ee enti aati

 

Che Dalhousie Gazette

FOUNDED 1869
{SSUED WEEKLY ° & Tehas t
EDITOR - ‘ ~ +> JH. E, READ, BLA.
; : e ’ ;
ASSOCIATE EDITORL
Mias Juanita O'Coanor, B. Comm
Vincent F. Clifford

FACULTY EDITORS |

D. R. Webster, B.A,
Miss Ciara’ Murray

Miss Marion Hoben A, B. Morton
I. L. Barnhill W. S. Gilchrist
W. G. Dawson A. Johansen
E. A. Mowat
SPORTS EDITOR | fits y ‘ PyT. Hickey
GIRLS’ SPORTS EDITOR x » Miss E. I. Macneill
EXCHANGE EDITOR 5 . ‘ R. F. Ross
} RESIDENCE REPORTERS

Mies Angela Magee W. B. MacOdrum
BTAFF/ARTIST Stocene Meta o¥ D. E. Green
OVERSEAS CORRESPONDENT” - _J..A. Dunlop, B.A

Coens: MANAGER . “a ° J. GORDON’ FOGO
64 LEMARCHANT ST.. Ter. S. 2596 J.

?

 

‘Mr. Sisley Huddleston, the Paris correspondent of the London Times, in the February Atlantic says that the real menace to
European civilization in these troublous times
lies in the threatened breakdown of education.
In support of his opinion he gives a picture of
the deplorable conditions among the poverty
stricken students and professors of Europe
which..is confirmed from many unquestionably reliable sources. He says, ‘‘The proletariat—the factory worker and the peasant
—has somehow managed to keep up its
standard of living. Thé profiteer and industrialist have been amply able to look after
themselves. It is the middle classes that have
had to endure the worst ‘consequences of
Kurope’s post-war ation’’—and it
was from these classes that ‘the intellectual
- professions were formerly recruited.

Europe’s students, in spite of their heroic
efforts to help themselves, have been for some
time face to face with starvation, and have
endured most dire privation in order to gain

   
 

 

- P is ° ia 4 sriaiat

 

NE! DOLLAR PER YEAR

at least a semblance of education. It has

td

An oe Bers: So See eet Smith,

Correspondence

 

The Gazette accepts no responsibility for views
expressed in this column.
Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N.S., Feb. 11, 1924.
To the Editor of the Gazette.

Dear Sir:—

I have been directed by the Executive Coiniate.
tee of the Glee Club to bring to the attention of
the student body of the University the following
facts. é |

For nearly three months previous to the presentation of “The Maid and the Middy” about seventy
students of the University gave up a great deal
of their spare time and worked very hard to make

- this year’s “Theatre Night” an enjoyable one for
the student body and their friends. Whether the
efforts of the club were successful or not I leave
tu the judgment of those who saw the show.

It is within the knowledge of every one present

on the first night that the enjoyment of the spectutors as well as their comfort was seriously interfered with by. the unseemly conduct of a small
‘group of students in the balconies who persisted
in throwing beans and flour upon the audience. I
have no hesitation in saying that these students,
by their conduct on that oceasion brought disgrace on the University and marked themscives
‘out as hoodlums unfit to be students of Dalhousie.
1 am speaking pointedly and frankly on this-matter, bécause the throwing of beans and flour is
neither funny nor smart, nor does it require any
brains or intelligence. It was unfair to the audience. It was unfair to the students who gave
liberally of their time to put on the show. It
was unfair to the management of the theatre.

The net result is that we have had to pay 3150
for damage done to the theatre, and the manager
slates that he will not anew us the use of the
Majestic again.

Surely it is time to call a halt on conduct of
this sort, and surely the Council,of the Students,
after having seen this scene enacted for two wuecessive years, is not going to allow the occasion
to pass unnoticed. Let the Council seek out the

- offenders‘and make an example of them. It is for
the good of the University that they do so.

CARL P. BETHUNE,

Pres, Dal. Glee and Dram. Society.

 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. .

Aad Bishop C. Hunt, Miss Sura M. Morash,
. Fred. Pearson, Miss Betty McKenna, Judge
aided: V. M. Ditmars, Dr. K. J. T. Webster,

‘Saturday afternoon,

 

Prize Winners Ter January.

 

At a meeting of the jury of award, held on
Feb. 9, the Gazctte
Special Monthly Book Prizes for the best
original prose and verse published during
January, 1924, were given to Mr. F. A.
Crichlow and Miss Freda Winfield, resp2ctively. Both of the prize-winning contributions ‘‘Manuelita and Lorenzo’’ and ‘‘Souls’’
were published in the Gazette of January
twenty-third. |

There are two more numbers of the Gazette
for February. Take these opportunities to
compete for the February prizes.

St. Valentine’s Day.

 

 

TO ANY GIRL.

There are no roses in my garden blowing,

Today no fragrant pansies have I got,

No lilies can I find for love’s bestowing,
Or blue forget-me-not. )

Would you have Roses—roses tel] of | ving,
Or Pansies sweet, bearing a thought from me,

_ Or Lilies pure and white, my fealty proving,

“Blue-eyes” for memory?

No flowers today: yet one wee flower I’m bringing,
Safe-sheltered in this quiet heart of mine
The tender blossom of my love is springing
To be your Valentine.
—JACK.

eee
TO ANY MAN.
The morning of St. Valentine ig here
And I would send a little thought to you,
A loving wish for you I hold so dear
Our friendship to’ renew.

Words could not tell the half that I would speak,
Only be sure that always when"I pray
Ever so many blessings do 1 seek

For you, each day by day... «

Each day I ask that God will guard you sure,
And keep you brave, and lead you aye aright,
And give you courage greatly to endure,

And shield you sufe at night.

That my str. ng Faith in you, while life shall last,

Oe

Will ne’er be shaken, nor my Hope be slain,
That so when Death through Love be overpast, —

I'll meet you once again.
od Il Ae

A Popular Choice

On Monday, before the mateh with Chae
lottetown, the Dalhousie girls’ ie yoke ac

  

 

 

  
  
  
    
  
    
      
   
 

 

    
    
 

  

= falas
> the ae.

    

nected neeneetiteetimnenetenenetined ieee ceieetcan en

‘NEW. GLASGOW!”

— See

HURRAB. EDR

On Monday, the, oertic the: company of
the ‘““Maid and the Middy,”"—that is,,, most
of them, eh, Julie?’—returned in , triumph
from. New Glasgow where. they: performed. at

two cvening shows and a matinee. It certainly was one grand, exciting trip, and one

never to he forgotten by the Dalhousians,—
perhaps not by, their hosts., and, hostesses
either. Even the C. N. R. had to. hand it to

them for the artisti¢e decoration of their pri-..

vate ear, and for the general atmosphere of

(peace (!?) which reigned on the train,

especially when the string quartet were rendering selections, Strange that Ralph Misener did not repeat, his, performance on. the
wey back! Was he too much -oceupied elsewhere? |

On arriving. in New Glasgow, the ‘sixtyfive started off to their various quarters, a
few finding certain streets in the town quite
elusive. . However, ‘‘all hands were on
deek’’ and feeling full of pep, for the evening
show, so no one could have wandered far.

After a very successful performance to a
crowded house, they decided to celebrate, and
two o’clock found them still. at the dance of
the Pythian Society in the “Green Lantern.’’
Here they made a real hit, but it is not known
what were the exact remarks when the
‘‘ouests’’ ‘‘lifted’’ plates of cake which were
passing them by. Ask Dalgleish—he knows.

We did hear a rumor that our ‘‘charming
widow‘' made a tremendous impression on a
certain lady who was moved to say that
Fran. was a permanent ‘‘ belle of the ball.’’

The next day passed all too quickly, The
whole company ,was entertained in the evening, after the show, by Dr, and Mrs. Blackett.
Why was everyone so late getting home?
It. has. been suggested that the three cases of
ginger ale may have had something to do with
Carl’s arrival at the hotel at 3 a. m.

If Marjorie and Hazel had controlled their
mirth, they might have been able to get in
unheard—even with their shoes on/ |

Sunday, for the Dalhousie players, was a
day. of as much variety and enjoyment as the
rest: Those who had enough energy to get
up in time, went to church. The rest saved
themselves for the afternoon when they went
in groups to different teas, given by Mrs. R.
M. Benvie, Mrs. R. Chambers, and Miss Jean
Fraser... We hope’ Roddy McLean enjoyed
the scenery around the Allan Shaft coal
mine, where he was picked up following ~

it won Ghtea tao thet Gihasile. Mina) hal
relieve his car of the Big Six in the back

seat. Warning: Don’t fill your automobile
too full on a fron ae eyen if you are trying to compete street car. No doubt
the rst of the jomrmey to New Glasgow from
‘Stellarton was very pleasant(?!) — 1?

One of the boys ‘(introducing Ralph. Daleleish to. William Pullman)— bP aca

of = Sime ea

  

—“Whis i¢the Count.’?
_ Pollman—“Oh« yest. you. work in. ‘the
Maman! Figs HB peste roe 16 oy deg rth

   

hore. enn te ot foi bid she cta
Be? |

a O\\ cine ee
| 3
. =
> SE wet ‘ ~ — : e 2 ge SS a, eee + ~
1 omy at i cE ‘. == a = 7 = =
t4 & i : =~ é ==% ra %
*

    

 

e

  

ee ee

pale yous

‘’

“(LECTURE ON eer

rota ‘Jaden: Nelson “@owanléch of” they
Department, .of | Biglo delivered. an illustrated lecture on “Hvolution'™ at t Sydney
and North Sydney .duringlast wee’:
spoxe at a’ lunchéon of busindss ‘meh, fir woth
cities on the subject of ‘‘Twins.’’

In ‘the address on evolution the pea’ er
gave some account of the extreme ‘ant iquity
of the record of diving organisms’ ou the exrth
during the past; ‘Mhuadktatend thispart of the
‘subject with photographs.of excellently p.eserved: specimens ey «clieate

“Hudson Bay Company
Research Fellowship

mens of insects preserved ‘i in the Baltic amber
for probably three” million Years quite wnchanged in even minute details. A’ rather’
full aecount of the evolutionary changes in”
the phylogeny of the horse was given and
was related closely with the evidences available from other’ sources of the chenges in

continental . elevations. and. climates... that ,

synchronized with the horse’s progress ito jits
definitive, fleet, | one-toed
speaker then recounted ‘the profound changes
capable of being produéed in ‘the development
of single individuals ‘by experimental interference with the environment.

In conclusion the speaker’ deseribed the |

brilliant work of Baron de Geer of Sweden
in providing the scientist, with a calendar of
the last fifty thotisand years of, earth history
more accurate than’ had. hitherto been

thought possible and related these discoveries.

with the successive’ Cave Man culture of
Europe. It wa8 shown that although’ man’s
physical evolution ‘ih the last fifty thousand’
years’ has been in ‘certain respects: retrogressive resulting in a decrease in stature,
and tendencies toward the loss of hair and
teeth and the dulling of the primitive avenues

of stimulation such as ears and, nose, yet.

within that! (period there had, oecurred a.
marvellous, progressive intellectual evolution,
the limits of Witieh were bose oes or: to be

‘predicted.

 

Um on the stage with

Dalgleish—“No!.
this show.”

n—‘Oh ‘I see! You turn yourself
about.”? _

With the show now an event of the past,
there are still some things: pamling: us, We
wonderr— |

Why Whitney fenton’ saad Audreas Johan.
son have taken to housekeeping?

‘How it happened that Basil Courtney had
his collar on inside ont after a certain night?

Why Johnnie ‘Thrurrott has: developed such
a penchant for feminine make-up! |

Why Carol missed two entrances Alar
ly a Fish story of course! ‘fiche mA

Who taught Anita to may “Go to hen”
What does W. Q. mean? PEA Sema

 
   
  

ais ¥i
HLS) HEE A;
* 4 4 vs

condition. The :

and also a

   

May Ist.

 
   
 

OF eet

I eee

 

The above fellowship of the:
annual value of $1,500,00, ten
able at the University of Manitoba, in any branch of pure or
applied’ science, open to gradu
ates of any ‘Canadian University, ©

will be ‘filled for 1924 about |
Applications should
be in the hands of the Registrar

ine

. of Manitoba University, Winni
fied

peg, Manitoba, by. April ‘tet

| re oa
- ention. Address.

78

 
   

  

. da ih
‘oui hos oe nities ? sails
"ie eg Sj aN. |

 

ae pi

 

 

 
   
 

ri Lm a

B deat: xis pei.

 
    

’
:

- = :
1 wae a >
% 4 ’ feet .
yee ae aie

wie anamiiees
“Rat, “drink ‘and: be'-merry for':to-morrow you

may die,” was the; motto, ‘which the girls of Class | et

‘95 followed last Pwesday night: . When they got
through “eating things to. save. them” they
thought that they would die before to-morrow.

The decorations of daffodils,’ and ‘black and gold
streamers looked much the same. as those at the
basketball banquet Monday night.

When: ‘the’ -faadt’ was about’ to ‘begih® ‘Mavenen, ;
came on but thé.tights' woul wot! ‘However, they,
only stayed off a short time. Toasts were’an impossibility-—all. were too full for' words. 
After the feed. the,whole. thirty ila ‘ean
in down town trug, suffragette fashion, in one line
reaching right across ‘the street. . For, the sake of’
being extra, sporty all bought balcony seats at. the
Imperial, . At was a real good show. :
—R, E. C..

ec ee “44)

The ewan. Student Relief

The European Student Relief (non-sectarian and
international) is a joint action of professors and
‘students the world over, to bring relief to the
neediest of their mumber.” $1, 000 has been
raised August, 4920, by students in 41

countries.

This sum has been ‘expended in food, clothing,
housing, medical aid, and self-help schemes, e. g::

During ‘the last’ academic year, ‘in, elem
1,500,000 breakfasts wére given to stu nts;
Germany, work was secured | for 60,00 students; .
in Poland, dormitories ' were provided for 1400.

 

s. nce

Last ter, in Hun every needy | studen
a i i seibtiek. To-day in “ Russia, 15,00 students are rece’ving one good meal daily.

aed 0,000 See a of: them ‘idigess,
in 125 weiertitap is in Cen ery sae nee te ee

have been saved Yaad ae i ond

espair. a
‘ | aroused throu this er manifestation of

t. friendship { for studen

 

eter ene Sh,

ur .
ct yi osu te \9 entertains |

at Glee. 3A a By R. Conger? 7 will serve refreshments. |

ut ma if you’ve got to doa thing
Ss iar entine nm 0  ® |
afety pin

——_——-=

  
   
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
  
   

  
 

  
 

a

Ls (0. LTD.
36 SPRING GARDEN RD.
i 119 YOUNG ST.

wet ty ‘7 ; ty2

a4 eat

2 roruian prvc00Ds, STORES:

  

 

; es
: + ’ 4]

 
     

RIC .
ood Weve
mg js RUA Tia

  

  

      
  
   
   
 
 
 

 
  

      

. My. &,:F. Dimmitt, chief chemist, of. the. Im
t got

 Dallioustahe, you have the i ie of helping in’

while laughing’ '_News .

g vis rae
: ty " — =n , |

   
 

tl at ee ee
"Poplar Fedbale Caw Banda!

: shore Oh Monday, Reb. a jo ghia nal dance of
ae the "Law Sdeiety was Held’ in te Auditor iit
‘asec gailhy'decorated for’ the oteastioni with festoonk,
)," streatners and banners.” ”
‘The special features were titique: and very
popular, partieularly the ballet dance so
faced ‘by gracefully done by Miss Doreen Glover of the
‘Strand’ Theatre, andthe exhibition of ball
 

_. he. industrial world of, tolay is i
the ‘question ‘‘Shall we. discard our coal
burning furnaces and instal modern‘furnaces . room daticing by Mr. Samson. and partner.
which are fired by fucloil?’’ The Lawyers are to be congratulated on their

{This question was,.one of the topies which Relieve variation of the usual program.

‘1 During the méonlight’ -waltzes the  spotlight ‘of’ the Majestic Theatre was ‘used to
advantage; and during the twelfth, w hich
was called ‘the ‘‘Law Dance’’, the air was

_ Let,me, mention a couple of instances where — full of sePpentines and showers 6f confetti
fuel oil, has replaced coal to a ecrtain.extent. raining down from the balcony,

The “SS Empress’.of Britain’? was One thing ‘only was open to eriticism and
recently overhauled. and,.oil burners: were in- that was the catering, ‘but even with this
stalled. In.order to replenish her supply‘of dawrback the dance was a decided success.
fuel, pumps force the oil into het. bunkers Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Jenks, Dean and Mis.
and she is. ready. to sail im twelve: hours. D:’A! MeRaé,’and ‘Prof. and Mrs. J.’ . Read
Coaling such, a _vesel takes seven days and were chaperones; and the committee in charge
the ship is covered with. a film of, coal-dust, of the dance were D. C. Colquhoun, J. Gorwhich, as many. of, ns. know, is very dis- don Fogo, R. Snodgrass, N. nomena and
agreeable to clean. up., Oil is.a clean. liquid J.’ Ross.
to handle and we can, readily see the advan

e ere over coal. ets saacaiemnsttntil cbebinanaeintaialmvoten
tren in the home; Buel oil can, be: easily ‘Dr. Norwood's Helpful Lecture.
ks, it, is. ‘ elean, nd when burn | ee

coe in a a, uniform 5 which, can he Rare pleasure was afforded to Dalhousians
‘regulated, aceurately to. any . temperature. : on Tuesday, Feb, 5, when Dr, Robert Nor
Fuel oil i ig used give extensively in stoves and. wood, noted Nova Scotian poet, addressed the
we, shall soon see the day when oil, gas and — students in e chemistry theatre. | :
electricity, , will, he the main sources of power In hi uliarly beautiful manner, he

and heat. .,, spoke of the great opportunities of youth in
The major, portion of Mr. Dimmitt’s.. the development ,of physical, mental and

lecture was taken up in, the explanation of spiritual life.

- various ‘tests applied to ‘fuel’ ‘oil. | Dr. Norwood, in closing, emphasized the

- [his ‘is’the second of a “series of lectures duty, incumbent upon every young man and

under ' the ‘auspices ‘of | the Engineering every young woman, but in a special degree
| Society, ‘and we ‘are all looking: forward to ‘upon those who have had the advantages of
the next one.’ wis college training, of setting a high standard
Engineéring Society want to congrat- of manhood and womanhood 1 in every phase
ulate its members’ who ‘took part: in ‘‘The ‘ of ‘life. | ;
Maid ‘and the Middy.”’ | ‘Bach student was heartiie sorry when the

We claim the record among the college address was over, and grateful to. Dr. ~
_gocieties for the largest number of students wood: for his goodness . in coming to Dalin the company, haying 10 percent of the cast — housie. i

made up of engineering students. — —F.

ber of engineers have secured memae the. Tedeteing Institute of | Expenses for men at ‘Northwestern Uni
ded a very enjoyable versity will be reduced by their voluntary

guaten Tite gro ‘Dao Lantern decision to join the women of the éollege ‘
“on February 7th, given by the Institute. observing three “‘dateless’ nights : w Q"

How about a few gophers or bears on the’ The action was taken by poe: ™
mpus so we ean enjoy ourselves when we. “fraternities and other groups in inte

nat ub surveying? oe of students working their way who are not

ye vaio! dollars, in five cent ‘pieces. able to finance extensive social life. A recent

perial Oil Company, . diseussed: in, his decture
on. the ‘‘Praetical, Application of: Fuel Oil;"’
held in Room 51 on February Ist, .

ere Rien.’

 

Ra tie 4 In commenting on this action, President

i m7 Ghanee to rovive instead of Being submer

by excessive social activities.” ,

   
 
     
    

ee CTCL

: “We want to give the ben a.

cas

a

fif
to {Don Juan’ ' of | survey of the. student body showed that ba
Dring 3. Sin ie per cent of the men are entirely or partly 0
Junie? ee pnuaee, Bop. their own resources.

 
ee ee

4

een

THE TEST...OF. POWER
amy. He

ay “4 Vb

 

Allaharic the Myst, high: castel Adept of ,
the Black Lodge, had transgressed the, Law,
and the Brothers of the White. Lodge had
spoken his doom. Jhysingh the:Pundit was.
the one selected ‘to carry ‘out the deeree, of the ,
High Tridhasha. And now ts sah ai Oowultints
stood face to face. ©

Like statues the two men went No ase,
of them seeméd alive save théir awful eyes
which met in. a terrible struggle of..the will:

a duel in which seeret forees. and highly.

developed occult powers were being strained ,
to the utmost, Allaharie, tall, commanding,

harsh and imperious of pose; with, all the.

«‘rength of his trained will thrown. into, his
voleanie eyes; Jhysingh, with his. body . well
head thrown royally back, his body. well .
advaneed in an attitude which at onee embodied grace and unyielding power, , had also
centred the might of his soul, and was now
meeting combination after’ combination of
deathful forces with others equally potent.
For ten straining minutes the strange
duel went on, and for the first time in his
eventful life Allaharic. the: Mystic knew
what it was to feel the grip of an awful fear
numbing his heart. Instinetively he seemed
to reclize thot it was the end, and, even as he
fought on with a final effort of his will, ho
rcsolved upon a final test for supremacy.

Stepping suddenly backward, he raised his:

right hand to his left shoulder, deseribing a
erescent across his body’ in a sweeping
salute, thrice was this repeated, then his voice
broke the silence.

“*Tt.is well. , I ecknowledge thee, Sword of
the High Tridhesha. I know thy purpose.’

The Pundit ceased, not to fix him with his
terrible maze while he answered :

“*This is the sunset of thy days, Son of the
Dark Flame. I am the Sword of the White
Law,’

“Shysingh with the boner of wisdom, let
that be as it may, but I yield not thus. I
demand greater proof of thy superior
knowledge. Art _—" to eonelude with the
Test of Power?’’ .

‘‘Tam. Produee.’’

Allaharie instantly brought to light a email
silver casket, opened it and exposed to view
nine black tablets. Thysingh plucked a
single leaf from a vervain plant near at hand,
made a pellet of some loose earth at his feet
and carefully folded the leaf about it.
Placing this on the palm of his hand he
gazed intently upon it for a while, then stood ©
ready to exchange.

Allaharie advanced. with the open casket,

“Choose, ”” said he.‘‘ Each contains twelve .
deaths and its work is finished in thirty
seconds, ”” Fs extended his arm n end
of the tablets

   

 

the body of his enemy with cold pity.

‘the Tridhaha ean reach thee.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Each watched the other with equal keenness; Jhysinght With, the ’ ‘tablet of death held

bétwetti finger and thumb, “Allaharie ‘with thé:

,"deaf poised on his finger tips. At a sign
from his foe the Pundit placed the tablet on
the tip of his tongue, drew’ itl, and crushed

it between his teeth. _ phe Mystic: tontemptu
ously tossed thet. Raf'wrapper, pellet: imto,,his
mouth and rhiishieated. if audibly. ' Another
signal, and both meni Swallowed. Abr
Motionless they stood facirig ’ cach
while the winged seconds sped by.

other
Then

-eame the end. Allaharie stiffened in the air;

his jaw. dropped and his eyes rolled upward,

then his body swayed from“ its’ ‘centre ‘of .
‘gravity. and struck the ground ‘at full seas "

His sun had | set.

Ereet and unharmed, the Pundit, steel
| : By his
knowledge of the occult fotees of Nature and

the exerejse of. a will long used to demonstrat- '

‘ing the superiority of Mind over Matter, he
had disintegrated the molecules of thie substances of which the tablet of death was
composed, thus rendering it harmless in a rearrangement of the atoms, The same power
had enabled him to charge the pellet of earth

with a poison whose potency could not be

broken by a will inferior to his own.

“Thy debt is paid and the command of the
Tridhasha carried to. the end,’’ he apostrophized in a low voice.’ ‘‘I have but destroyed
the physical sheath; the ¢go lives still. Yet,
have a care, Son of the Dark Flanie; even
beyond the portals of what men call death
Redeem the
past in thy next earth life ee all may yet be
well.” ait

ao Rasher ®% 2 “

In’thé’spacious courtyard of the Black
Llamastery next day the body of the Mystic
was laid upon the Altar of Cremation. Foremost among those who performed the final
rites was the reverend emissary of the High
Tridhasha. And as the last tongue of flame
shot into the air, whilst the eastern drums
and fiddles rolled and wailed in wild ‘unison,
the right hand of this distinguished functionary swept three times across his body in the

parting symbol, as a sign that all antagonism

was at an end between Jhysingh the Pundit

and the sonanerel soul of Allaharie the

Mystic.

 

ALLE EN'S

 

“BOOKS ON SCIENCE, , ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Bee. |

 

_ TWILIGHT.

City-spires against the sky-line
Black as night, mid sunset’s hue,
Like the towers of old time temples,

Slender fingers | pierce‘the‘bluce. i:

Gone the ‘smoke and‘clouds of daytime,
Gone the. daylight ’s éeaséless rush,
Now the sunset’s slowly fading—
0’ er the alte broods a hush.

Softened now ‘the binee of noon-day,
Swallows circle towards the nest,
Twilight fallsand with its. falling—

Comes an’ interlude of- rest.
eh,

 

GRANDMOTHER'S: SOLILOQUY.

 

See I the hehe, ‘whe nestling on my bosom

Gazed in my eyes with unaffected look—

Can it be true? Does modern time perform

Such deeds as these; from dark and straight-set
hair

Takes form a yellow moss of curly locks,

Cheeks that were pale are now no longer so

And lips once straight are rich in dainty lines

Of curves.: Even her nose hath changed distinctly,

Now white—like death.
world,

Be not so vain, but pass for what you're worth,
hui —G. G.

The students in the Saskatchewan College o7?
Law have stopped _ singing

“Yes, we don’t know the. Bonanza.”

The Gift House
of the Maritimes

BIRKS, HALIFAX, is a
branch of the large jewellery
organization having their
headquarters in Montreal and
other . branches~ at Ottawa,
| Winnipeg, Calgary and Van- |
| couver. Itis governed byt the
|} same policies.
Our Insignia Department has
| supplied your class: jewellery.
| Our other departments can
anteaty: you ae mm, —

 

ae fiat 2 Ag : Wii

Oh child, I know the

~ °

“Yes, we have no ,,
bananas;” and are now heard sadly humming,

=~ :

: .
¢ . ; =
3 - _ ee ~

” >
Se
~—* _—
a ‘

ar pig a ce! Sanne
4 a ee

  
 
  
 
 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Pine Hill Post

Pine Hill flits along the even tenor of her
way. Bob. Scott “‘outkitchenered Kitchener’’ with the address on that worthy,
vesterday. ° Following: the: Alkagtrious steps of
our fellow-resident, Dr. Faleoner,” Maurice
Armstrong and Roland Goudge decided to
link up ‘to ‘their careers ‘togethér ahd address.
us on the ‘ornithologi¢ development. of the
North. ‘Of’ couitse ‘Mere’ ‘are’ birds and -birds,
chickens, ‘and chickens, “
Roland will tell you that.

We. have not yet been. able to find otit who

was the girl, who. said, on being ‘asked to a’
party:on Valentine’s, ‘‘No that’s Pine. Hi}l
and ‘‘Dud’’ Phillips® night,

We met Rod MacIntosh under exceedingly |

suspicious cireimstances ‘Saturday night. It
won’t de to tell just’ what or where. That’s
telling. We will however maké our meaning
perfectly. clear when We say that if it was his
roommate George, it would be a commonplace
occurence.

Haven’t Rod MacLeod and Homer Norton
suggested that Pine Hill would be the next
place to hold an 8. C. A. singsong. There is
always some chocolate left over at supper
time, and along ~ the cut isa good place to
display chivalry.

And Shirreff Hall, we wonder how many
of you down there can duplicaie Charlie MacLennan’s feat. Charlie kecps the S. H.
directory right. above: his ‘desk. ‘‘Just for
inspiration” he said—but it doesn’t inspire
since the New Glasgow trip.

Charlie Jones has a besetting fear of baldness. We are unkind but really don’t know
hat he is so anxious to preserve. However
he has about fifty. different hair lotions,

mainly that come his’:way by. answering -—

ad offering them in return for a stamp. Hugh
Ross got them mixed up one day and put

some compound of Bay Rum on: his head, |
That’s why he hasn’t. been able to eut it since, .

We were going to tell you last ‘week’ and
forgot, how Edwin Johnson. got his’ ears

frozen in bed. We didn’t think we harbored | }

such a cold blooded igloo in our midst. °

If the next time you call Pine Hill you hear
strange inn groanings, don’t he
somebody has its only, aa aeDonald tuning up the Ukelele Banj

Quarrie learned to play the Saxophone.

There are feeds and feeds with an oceass- |

   
   

ional chef d’oevre. We will say the boys did
ample justice to the Kentville: spread | the ‘i
Dave Johnsons back to, nobinal again. ‘i
_ Ask | unean MacMillan. «

of f ‘i Home.”

t out to

“en
; 
‘Either Matarice or:

Doug —
has been torn with ‘asleep ate check Mae- |

_ ‘brought up in a

  

and ae 7

 

To a Duich-cut

 

May the Lord warm up His breezes
For the poor shorn lambs—
* You have cut those heavy ropes off
That you wore like braided wheels,
And with them you sheared my hopes off,

And the things a lover feels.

 

For I really loved each wavelet

And the lights of gold. But girl
' You’ve a look of some meek slave-let
Or an Anglo-Saxon churl.

Can I love you in your madd (i) ness
With that clipped off, brush-end look,
Can I bury all may sadness

I the pages of'a bdok?

No! my love won-t’ wave and languish,
I shall raise an awful row

I shall burst forth in my anguish

Crying, “Alice, where art thou?”
: . —Ack Emma.

 

Last year a vote was taken among students
throughout China by certain newspapers on the
_ question, “Who are the tWelve greatest living
_ Chinese?” The results were significant. Of the
- four, who have an easy majority of the votes,

two are keen Christians, and the other two were

‘Christian environment either of
“home or school, or both and owe everything to
istianity; of predegr drscatgl one third are

   
    
  
  

DR.

    

 

SHIRREFF HALL

The item of interest during the past week
has been the visit of the Charlottetown
Middies. Of their number Misses Dora
Matheson and Nell Stuart remained for the
rest of the week.

The latest thing in hair dressing seems to
he ““hangs’’—and some girls follow it even if
it is unbecoming—Why ?

Rosie Goldstone had a very painful acci
 

dent at Chocolate Lake last week, when she |

fell and broke her nose—It put her out of
the running for the basketball game on Monday, but she plans to be able to play in the
league games. Jane Graham has recovered
from her operation and is able to be about
again, and we expeet Marion Irving home
soon.

There are a few things which have piqued
our curiosity—

1. Why Olive bobbed her hale,”

2. Why Peg’s door is always locked.

3. Who spent part of last Monday evening

on the front porch.
4. ‘‘Aro you going to the ‘‘Pine Hill” at

er
—Ack Emma. |

 

The way to a man’s heart may be theée hie A

 
 

stomach, but the operation requires some tool more
   
 

ey *% ¥

—- a

   

Wie ty. i sak
ei ie POP

   

      

| DBA, . :
. vy 8 * 4 jx hs

  

i | | ; eer speedy Commercial,
The first 4 de a for the erste A $ ° im $x Teeth Pullers” at the |
apm was held._by.. the-Sodales Debuting. Sac Pt g ae dente Ny

iety on Tuesday evening, Feb..bth:,. . .° dy ‘Munroe was:the star of puck chasers, —

The intellectual arena in.which.the vhetory. sautcthe Dents’ were réally worried when |

‘ chair.

ical gladiators contended for hénors was t
Munroe Room. Sid-.Gileh ist, , Sot ent,.of »
Sodales, was in the chair and: - the ,me rs! iofirs,
the intercollegiate. commitee’ were presenti” to’
select the contestants for the final trial.:. The
subject’ of the debate was the intercollegiate
subject to be debated with King’s Uniyersity
in March,—‘‘ Resolved, That Confederation: is
in the best interests of the: Maritime; Provinees. ’

Donel Gordon of Afts. 97 spill the de:** .
bate for the affirmative. Mr. Gordon ‘a WHAT YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS
fessed to have had a élose insight into the ys) | IN EUROPE ARE FACING.
prosperity and the industries a New Brons: “Thousands ‘of ‘them (in ‘Russia—millions) are
wick, having toured ° iy of me ‘cures ‘dad of starvation or of. disease resulting from
in a ear last summer. He proved ™ under-nourihment. _
be well vérsed-in Seripfure and he quoteéthe ‘Their, professors and tents go in rags and
New Testament..and ‘“‘Yes- we. havé™ no / sometimes barefoot. Many women students are
bananas’ in the same breath.” ‘ Robert} Robb, “completely without undereldthing.
Arts '24, the first, up Sr the top?? for tH , a

ve has an efflorescent ersthality,:. He :

a i. a vory pleasant sid “atable matiner, | " -nThey> need the Speen your friendship can
Like Belial he would try to make “the Worse ‘bring whem. <1
nn stg . ; : a ees = cee ri ee ae . Joseph: How rather i by ae
rleyeorn an
she | Seotch in™the audience; ‘But the big hit , ae =e y TSH
of his speech was what he called his" (cArgu- = sian sath
ment from Deductive Logie.’’ Arguments |
used in trials, however, must not’ ‘be repeated.
In closing his speech Mr. Robb lamented the 3
high, tax. placed on tobaceo and cigars since  paacameenly sal Wg
Confederation. ' ** “ be ba

Jarvis McCurdy, of Arts ’26, for the affimative, spoke in a very. natural manner, He
has-a pleasing voice and a pleasing style of
speaking. He perhaps left too much data to
be supplied by the audience for themselves.
After stating his points he said, ‘‘I’ll take the
first first.’’ G. M. Grant, Arts ’25, was the

second speaker on the negative side. He as
- gured the audience that he would base his
arguments on broad questions and make his aaah
points so clear that even the least intelligent

& hhidy got going. »
ge wall eo Mosher was all that.
uy 40.98 desired in the nets. Clyde played
* a veterat. Rod’ McLean was the

“official” and handled the game quite satis...
factory.’” :

way toward winning the ‘Inter-faculty league |

“for 1924. hj 3
| Wy _H, A.M

 

 

 

“The pentene’:

 

ee

NALLIQNAIRES BLANK DENTS cy *

cad The pee al oS ale first ‘trial. debate:

‘This win starts the ‘““Coms’ > well on‘ the

‘They pqust sell théir freapures for bare necessi- ’

 

 

a~*t

or nape or Yr" wi ee enone “ie

Ta Heh Brit Debite.?

| ae \ *,

pura.

in the Munroe Room on: Tuesday evening, Jan.
Bist. The debate. was, held under the auspiges of
‘Delta Gamma and Miss Edith Black occupied the
The subject | was, ‘the’ ‘one to be debated
with® Mount Alliso University, “Resolved, ‘That,
with ‘the’ exception of those | already *
owned, the natural: resources of Canada, and in
particular, oil; mines, tas and water power, should,
‘be: publicly owned and controlled.

.Dhe, speakers .wete:—A fiirmative, Misses, Marshall and Eva, Mader; Negative, the Misses’ Flor
.encé, MacKinnon and: i Madden. | ;.

The girls attacked this economic question boldly
and fearlessly. They were. confident in manner

and clear in delivery and as a trial debate it was

a very ‘successful one. If one, were to offer any
ciiticism it would be this: try to “get a firmer
 fragp of the subject ahd ih debating: it stick to
the’ resolution, Use ‘Only. arguments that ‘count as
strength. to your case. - The attendance was very
poor,|’ This is a sad fact. im, all, the: debates held
al Dalhousie, How can ‘you ‘expect: your ‘college
to turn out winnin; ‘teams if you do. not ‘support,

debating. li There ig very litt}e. stimyjug for debat- |
empty. ;

ing. when the, speakers: have. ta. address.
chairs and the walls. Ln sh Pay

 

‘‘Miss Peach @ Bride,”
husband are now a pair. oe

  

ss oP ew:
oo ieee 98:

sees

cream in the perfect container” (pte
“(This is the way ome wer describes Willams and the new HingeCap) rr

could understand him. Mr. Grant attained |
heights of oratory when he declared that a , cate [Men buy Wiia=s expecting to ‘daa :
Maritime commercial traveller was as scarce | a | Roos. Biot eased ty te amet.
in Upper Canada as a Baptist in Pictou — ua. hea Bot wn By. al eileen Bei
e " i ‘te y get an equally p
County. ‘‘Once,’’ he said, ‘‘we were, sorption eu hasede ren:

spected parts of the British Empire. Now we
are servile vassals washing the feet of our
sister provinces.’’ Inviting his audience to
come with him he gave a ‘‘bird’s eye view’,
of Nova Scotia, picturing it as a ‘* Deserted
Ve Geant must have anticipated a Shirrc Nae a havin oh
Hall audience because he addressed the ladies | AUST Pe tees
as well as the gentlemen, although unfortun- ost” Keloe, Ae .
] the ladies were absent. at oappelbiee gere| ih: ieee
LD. MacKinnon, Arts ’24, eltsed ‘the de Sot aE ae ;
bate for the affirmative. Being very Scoteh gre a "
of hg cre eaee ey Laesanl
he pater

  

 

4
+ pee

fot |

:
ti eye we Te P

<0) Ln eee Se 0
Bes wt at

at the | ‘3 aie ee ae Ne x a

mi x ee ae he
set iy he ab . Ris ie f . ag

pAviciegehicirenlve my ancy Day
; softens the beard, make a hit at once.

_ Then, Williams lather
skin so that the razor
the hairs off. And
, Mar sy eee of the -senal

    

ihe | .
means

 

 

af. iano Wi kd

erty. ite: Sandee!

| Sk fae?
& Di mth

i

|
j

privately,

a> i.
Sanaa ®S A PP

ia’

Se “and her

 

TPR Pee +10 e

SED NIOR BASKET 7

LAW DEF EATED ARTS 422

   

_ Tigers Down Ceéscents 42.

League Standing.

 

‘For... Agst.

de nn WoL. Law won out over Arts in ‘the ‘agcond’ InterDartmouth ....... ree l l | 16 ‘15 faculty game of the year hy the score of 4—2 last
LORE. kkk) debe 8,,:. 1 1 17 + 10. Thurgday morning at the logal. arena,
Wenderere 0.5.0 secees 8 a2: 0 18; 16 The ice was rough which made, individual phe
Créscents; ..... reenter 6  O IL. 23. ing djficult, The game was hard fought and ,was

 

in doubt until the,last period, .whenLaw./swept
: inetwo counters. ..: Ht ;
* *McInnes’ scored’ in’ the first.: period: for .the

‘DALHOUSIE DEFEATED, (CRESCENTS,

By a score. of 4—2 at the. Dartmouth: Arena Ibst
Friday and climbed, to within, one game. of the
leading Dartmouth team. :

The gamé’ Was not productivé of good hockey"
and only a small crowd was in attendance, the
Dalhousians being specially few. ee

The first period opened up in a ‘listless manner
until Dunlop went the length of the rink and shot
through the defence, beating” Hanahan. for the I\ scored number two’ for Arts. 3
first score of the game. Parker Hickey refereed, =

The second and third periods were’ better.

Bates was the outstanding player with Dunlop a
close second. Wilson was not up to form. Ahern ,
and Doyle blotked | well, while” Gilbert ‘ind Ellis °
were the bést ‘of the forwards. Butler refereed.
Line-up:— .. | fiat | ‘ |

Dathousie—-Goal, Latin leteasé. Wilson, Dunlop; forwards, Haslam, Bates, McKenna Hickey,
Smith. hole it ar

Crescents-—Goal, Seapahen abies Air,
Doyle; forwards, Ellis, Gilbert, en: Butler,

Myers, Crowdis, Cushing, © ~
team at the Olympic may rank ‘as.the most distinct

St. George's: Defeat. Dal aS feature of all the: games thereat, declares the

After holding St. " George’ 8 eters to ‘an. _ Chamonix correspondent of the Morning Post in a
's to 15 score at the.end of the first period, .. teview of the Olympic games.
the Dalhousie Tigers weakened and. St. | Gongratillations. to the Canadian Olympic
George’s rolled up the Heeckey: Team who. scored 110 goals in their series

second: maaan: The’ cath pa red ak aie) F with Ra three, eounters genio them.

baskets in the second ‘period: apie Bb / pe! Mt. Allison ana U.N. B. struggled in a hard

Ceorge’s rolled up twenty points, re ‘game to a 2—2 score ‘at Sackville: last Thursday,
The Saints showed a great. reversal of form in the first game: of, the Western, Section of, the

in the last stages of the game and won out in Tatectobegehe, Weare N 0 overtime was played.

an aggressive manner, Theteams:— et
St. George Killen, 16) James 4; Stech 5} Uiksordtee ‘ “twea given out’ “by, WN ie

minute later. Gushue sent the Professionals into
the lead with’ a Hard’ shot” in’ the second ‘session.
Barry, made some nice ‘ftushes and registered the
thitd ‘counter: Meltines netted the fourth, and

who gave great support to their team. The line up:
Law: Goal, Borden; defense Barry, Gushue;
forwards, ‘Grayburn, ‘Gunn Bissett | Mortison,
Flynn Kerr,’ McInnes, McKinnon, Hull.
Arts: Goal, Irwin; défense, McDonald McOdrum,
forwards, Redmond, Songster, Langwith, Murphy,
MeCyrdy.

s ]

ASTONISHED AT SKILL OF CANADIANS

 

The astounding skill of the Canadian hockey

 

 

  

forwards, Coster: and Murphy «Mendes at U. N. B. that College js considering withWhite, 10, Maber, sub.” ° "5 00! drawal from Intere mag activities unless uni
Legalites and Langwithy evened up ‘for: Arts a:

se : cre’ 7 t. , S et a? : , * 7 ¥4
oe Aa * et i : J t d. ok ,i
f 2 .
’ , es

towards the end of the last period Redmond

Law had a large number’ of rooters on hand 
Dalhousie—Harrison 4, Mader 8; ‘died. elegibility rules are drawn up for this sport.
MecOdrum 5, Miller guard; ‘Frame, form ee has . reetnged on several | casions
The Dalhousie "intermediate | basketball, to Withdraw from Collegé sport beeaude of the,very |

team suffered. their first, defea ’ Peasons that U. N. B. has advanced—“uniform
appa they... eligibility rules.” Academic qualifications are on

were downed by the Y. M. C, A. team 17 to I a different basis at inost of the colleges and what

Ht ‘B * pSiraaei ould entitle a player at one institution to play
tio ily would bar him se ‘competition at another. By

 
    

 
 
 
 
  

/*) all’ means let us \have. a conference of the Inter
we te ‘collegiate sporti ' frapernity. and see if we. can; not get some basic ae ‘oF classification which

= a :
>.

there was not an Arts

~~

: 1 , rt . =
’ . . i Z Le * ! , a3
ty . ’ ’ ie i ; > A Ls
ry fy ‘ t
. } a

 

»s$OME HOCKEY GAME!

| Playing under stringent and unaccustomed rules

& hockey team picked from the Dalhousie Law
School battled’ with the fast Co-ed team at the

Wanderers rink. Only by staging a desperate
cameback in the dying moments of the game were

the mere men able to avert disaster for their team

ond the game ended 3—38.

The fair sex wore knickers, while the so-called
stronger sex were attired in gaudy skirts of
various styles. |

Barry scored two for Law and Watchorn one,

While Misses Mills, Penny and Lewis countered »

for. the girls.
shortly.

A return game will be played

}

 

 

Dal Basketers Win Over Acadia

The Dalhousie Basketball team defeated Acadia
by ‘the score of 25-22 in the Memorial gymnasium
at Wolfville last Wednesday.

' “This was the first defeat of the season for the
Acadia team. The game was hard fought and it
was anybody’s contest until the whistle blew.
Harrison and Mader starred for Dal, while Brown
wa sthe best of the Acadians. Murray refereed.

The line up:

Dalhousie: Forwards, Mader, Harrison; Centre,
Grant; Guards, Miller, McOdrum; Subs, Smith,
Frame.

Acadia: Forwards, Cox, Robinson; Centre, O.
Noble; Guards, Rhodenizer, Brown; Subs, A.
Noble, Chipman, Moffatt.

 

The Dalhousie Basketers were defeated at St.
F. X. last week by the score of 25—-15 and also
lost a game at Truro on the way home, The
Hub team is’ very strong and has since defeated
St. F. X. by score of 19—18.

The students in Arts are due for some criticism

_on account of the poor support offered to their
‘players in the Law-Arts hockey game. With the

‘exception of those actually engaged ‘in the game
student present in the
Arena.’

 

The man who says he would like to see the
woman who could make a fool of him can do so
by glancing at the next N pretty one who; happens to
“~ his were ' ,

From Six to Sixty,-
the boys “who _ thrill’ with desire: for
greater athletic aooemptiaiment are me

boys who'pick

       
   
 

   
  
    
  

  

       
  
 
 

  

 
     
   
 
 
 

 
 
   
      
 

   
    
  
  
   

 
  

Kliff's Krazy Kuts

Co-ed—

 

‘My word your overcoat is. loud.”

Med— , Wait a minute until I, get my

muffier on.’

‘
s@

 

It is rumored that a chair of Elocution
has been founded at Dalhousie in conjunetion with Latin LI,

Among the events of the week Howard

Hamilton has had his picture taken. Have
you attended to year yet!

 

j! i

Edith—
place I hate to leave net Om

SCENE-—ENGLISH II.
Act.—Dr, MeM.—an, reading passage from
‘*Richard III.’’ ,
‘‘A horse, a horse! my kingdom for a
horse !’’
Dog walks up the aisle.
Curtain !

 

Not all of the Chinese bandits are holding
up tourists. Some : of . them are shipping
Mah Jongg outfits to this country.

 

(Med) ‘‘You seem to have great faith in
your doctor.’’

(Law) 5 nat man holds my thirst in
his han

| Afternoon or Evening

Morning, afternoon or evening, The
Green Lantern is at your services. : Be,
it a light lunch, an ice cream or a full
course dinner, the service is guaranteed
to be all that one could wish.

The Green Lantern —

HALIFAX '  GANADA

 

 

Finest Materials,

ws ane

a sf aa : = Wee) 4
on ae wai A? Sais — eT eal. 4 apt tee i : + th ony Tey als Thats es ~~ er = wally aL papi Le 4S . 3
Fete ty Be = Ze) LN ‘, =

‘New Glasgow ‘is: ‘edge’ a nice

‘hate

oor OO et ie gt

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

‘CHARLOTTETOWN GIRLS VISIT
. DALHOUSIE

neg
i’

 

Dalhousie was visited-last week by a girl’s basket
“ball téam from Prince Edward Island—the Char
lottetown’ “Middies,” who arrived at Halifax on

Saturday afternoon, February 2, accompanied by
‘their chaperone;-Mrs. MacKinnon. :

They-were met at the train by Elinor Barnstead,
the Dalhousie manager, and Anna_ Grant, the
secretary of the D.G.A.C. and escorted to Shirreff
Hall, where they stayed during their visit.

On Sunday afternoon both teams were enter-—

tained by Eva Mader, the president of the D. G. A.
C. After the match, on Monday evening there

was a banquet at Shirreff Hall given by the D. G..
_ A. C., and afterwards the visitors were guests t

the Law dance.
Although their visit was very short, the Char
. lottetown girls made many friends, and the Dalhousians are looking forward to another match

next year..

The match was played in the Gymnasium at
4 o’clock on Monday before a large number of
spectators, Dalhousie winning by quite a large

_ score,

Those who played: . :

Charlottetown: Lelma Owen (Capt), Maude
Stewart, Van Bell, Avila Matheson, Phillis Winchester, Tinker Bourke, Delta Walsh.

Dalhousie: Carol Hawkins (Capt), Marjorie
Kennedy, Elnor Barnstead, Edith’ Macneill, Marion
Campbell, Harriet Roberts, Alison McCurdy, Mabel

Borden, uh

o—E. M.

STOP PRESS.

Indoor baseball practice Friday night 9—10 at
Gym. A big turnout wanted. A team to be
chosen to play some outside teams.

re Cy; UPSTAIRS |=\.
oat A an so,

sciences CLOTHES
Can Always be Purchased at

ROBINSON'S
rn .00 and $28.00

ROBINSON'S CLOTHES,

444 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 
 

Scent ee ae

‘The College Girl | |¥

_ Likes A Hat

~

'
4
7
2
=~

 

’ _ »
~~» .
~*~} re
* '
wy . :
ct
- > 4 . . “
‘ : .  * . ‘
. ° . ~~’ f ‘ .
. .

 

W. F. PAG

7 —THE—

“Young Man’s Store

 

on

The hest stock. of Up-to-date

stylish. Clothing, Furnishings,

Hats and Caps in the City.

Call and inspect our stock
‘ before purchasing.

ee ee
-_——— +--+

 

Barrington Street
Corner George St.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 

 

stock.

 

   

 

th oe 4 ‘

ry.

evmvemvemom: CHEMISTS ——-—-— ¢

   
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
  

‘A & W. MACKINLAY LTD.
| STATIONERS

A complete line of Manuscript
Books in various bindings andj
Loose Leaf Note Books kept in j

Depot for Swan Fountain Pens
Eversharp & Duro-Point. Pencils

137 GRANVILLE STREET

: ¥

DISPENSING cee.

MacLeod, Balcom Ltd.
Druggists

_ YOUR
BUSINESS _..

 

 

fr

 
      
 
