  
      

i,

7

=

es

ae

4

ik gfe
if

r

7°

VOL. LAY.

Official Student Publication

DatuoustE &

s

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 22, 1934

at Dalhousie University

 

No. 8

 

Of Bennett Policies

Laurence and Bentley Bring Victory to Liberals

ted by cheers, boos, and points of order, Sodales
at es eck: oeene voted a lack of faith in the policies of one

of its founders, Prime Minister

R. B. Bennett. The meeting,

to be the noisest in years, was well attended as NewRe eedoes Americans and Lunenburgers turned out to hear
Lord Laurence of Margaree and Fraser Bentley, member for
Quaco, uphold the Resolution “that this house deplores the

ici the Bennett Government.”
ee tel to prevent Newfoundland’s own Bernard

was

Feature of the evening

Andrews from exercising his franchise.

PROMISES UNFULFILLED

Roy Laurence opened the debate,
but before he finished a sentence,
Tory leader Hanson objected that
the speaker was uncapped. Proceedings were stopped until a suitable adornment was brought in for
the speaker’s dome. Laurence then
went on to introduce the motion. He
reviewed the moves of the Bennett
Government, pointing out its “reprehensible actions and philanthropic
promises.” The promises to end unemployment have left Canada disgusted, he said, and the pleople have
expressed their disgust in the recent |
provincial elections which have left
the Conservative oppositions conspicuous by their absence. The Government has been hiding behind the
skirts of Royal Commissions, said

' Laurence and have squandered public

monies in provincial elections. He
mocked Mr. Bennett’s policies for
Empire trade, suggesting he had
gone to London, dynamite in pocket,

f to “blast”” out trade agreements, but

the result was that Empire trade was
at its lowest ebb since 1902.

DEFENDS ADMINISTRATION

Horace Hanson (greeted with loud
cheers from an obviously Conservative-minded group) scored the opposition for its soley destructive
criticism, whereupon Laurence arose
to a point of order, suggesting a
well-known white-coated official be
summoned. Hanson justified the
Government’s tariff policy as the
only sane policy in the face of rising trade walls all over the world.
He defended the “blank-cheque”
charge of the liberals; it was necessary to relieve unemployment and
conditions on the Prairies. With
world trade only 35 percent of what
it was in 1927, and with 50 percent
of Canada’s population dependent
upon exporting agricultural goods,
the Government was forced to act,
he declared. It had pegged the
price of wheat for the farmer’s
benefit and had opened markets for
wheat abroad.

The Conservative Administration
had passed the national marketing
act to help insolvent farmers and
give them a chance to start afresh.
The speaker contrasted this with the
Combines Act of the Liberal Government under which many companies
had merged to get virtually a monoply of the Canadian market, Finally, he outlined what the Government
had done for industry, pointing out
the difference in business in United
States.

Bentley Attacks Wheat Program

Amid thunderous applause,
Quaco’s own Fraser Bentley arose
and despite his sickness vigorously
attacked the Conservatives. Challenged to be specific, he outlined unemployment, tariffs, the International wheat agreement, the wheat
situation, the Committee of Price
Spreads and Mass Buying and the
Marketing Act as things for which
he would blame the Government.
He did. The decline in wheat exports
was due entirely to high-tariffs, on
which could also be put the reason
for the difference in prices of manufactured goods in Canada and in
United States. The Liberal tariff
policy was one for revenue only, not
for protection, he stated. He assailed the wheat quota system, say
7

 

—_—_—_$_$_<_$_<_<$_$_ $____<$____ : 
FRASER BENTLEY.

 

ing it must eventually result in a
burden to taxpayers. What the
Government should have done was
to formulate a plan to put agricultural prices in proper proportion to
those of industrial goods; instead
they had deliberately kept up industrial prices. His main criticism of
the Marketing Act was, that it interferred with freedom of agriculturists and guaranteed only the
exporters with no loss arising out
of sales.

CENTRAL BANK PRAISED

Bill Davis, of Petticoat Lane,
Yarmouth, declared Mr. Bennett was
not to blame for a world-wide depression and had been dubbed
“humbug” for sticking to his guns
by a man who later turned to adopt
Mr. Bennett’s policies. As a direct
result of the Ottawa Agreements in
1932, butter had become an exported
commodity instead of an import, he
said. This was equally true of
poultry, beef, pork and bacon. They
had also resulted in increased timber
sales. He taunted the Liberals with
having no tariff policy except an
“anti-tory” policy. He praised the
Central Bank and declared the Liberals, who always talked of one, had
lacked initiaitive to legislate for it.

SENIOR-JUNIOR PARTY
TOMORROW NIGHT

Featuring Laurie Hart’s ninepiece orchestra, Classes ’85 and ’36
will hold a combined party in the
lower gymnasium Friday night.
Garbed in the decorations of last
year’s convocation party there, the
gym will have the appearance of
some vast toy-land. Novelties and
other features will add still further
to the possibilities of a successful
party which already seems destined
for success, judging by the early sale
of tickets. Party, nine-piece orchestra, novelties and all may be had for
the price of $1.00, ticket-sellers say.

Committees from both classes are
looking after arrangements. Mitt
Musgrave, Hal Johnson and Jean
Begg are looking after the senior
half while Don Saunderson, Bob
Stanfield and Mary Ledingham are
the Junior party leaders.

There is only one fly in the ointment. It is understood that just as
rooms are prohibited at the larger
dances, so also are lockers disallowed
by the powers that be.

The Pine Hill scandal sheet, the
“Pepper Box’, made its first appearance of the year on Saturday night.
Heralded by trumpet blare and
guided by its stalwart composers, it
‘was duly affixed to the common
room wall. The editor, Ian MacKay, apparently had no difficulty in
collecting material, for, in spite of
the abundance printed, it is whispered that even more is being held
over for the next edition.

The Papal Bull takes precedence
over the rest of the literature (?)
submitted, and is duly signed and
sealed (sealing wax and the caudal
appendage of some dear departed inhabitant of the Vatican, probably of
that animal noted for its perverseness, viz., pigheadedness.) Both the
drawings and the written contributions to this edition of the Pepper
Box show great excellence and indicate a singular awareness on the
part of everyone as to what everyone else in the Residence has done,
is doing, and is about to do. Sic!

The evolutionary hypothesis still
holds good among some of the brethren at least, and many even have
the audacity to call it a theory. The
Simian ancestry of one or two
members of our confraternity has
been proved almost without a doubt.
A whole article has been devoted to
that of Adam Kennedy, and that of
Innis MacLeod was proved by experimentation, viz., shimming up the
pillar in the common room in a most
realistic manner.

The pool tournament is not yet
completed but John Jarvie and Jim

|
|

: Sodales Votes Disapproval| PINE HILL ON PARADE |Cast

Millar have reached the finals after
several narrow squeaks. One of the
best games yet was that between
the latter and Wilmur Fraser of
which the result was 60—56.

Our acting fraternity are practicing faithfully and if the results are
worth the labour the evening of the
twenty-seventh should be a pleasurable one.

Austin MacDonald was in serious
danger of his life last week when
these notes appeared first. Apparently one of the brethren objected
strenuously to seeing his name in
print. The affair was amicably settled, however, and Austin, though
still wary, is recovering his balance
somewhat.

Shades of Theo Cox and Liv Millar were raised on Friday at the
dinner table. The table, at all events
was raised and that right royally.
The uproar was continuous until
Fraser Nicholson left and for the
first time in many years dinner was
properly digested. (loud laughter).

This week we have a sad tale to
relate. It has been noised abroad
that one of our most promising, if
Lilliputian, theologs was seen acaccompanied by a female of Brobdiagian proportions, partaking of the
sweet fruits of this world’s goods
in the broad and winding path which
leadeth to destruction, yea, even to
the Capitol. Such a falling from
grace cannot pass without some condemnation and we hereby beseech
our brother to continue no longer in
the path of perilous (unless she
agrees to be more’ agreeable next
time. )

 

Sophs’ Baby Party
Is A Riot Of Fun

One of the most riotous class
parties in years was staged last
Friday night at the Yacht Squadron
when members of the Sophmore
Class held a “children’s” party as
their first get-together of the year.
Such games as “Ring around the
Rosie” and “London Bridge is falling
down” spelled a barrel of fun for
light-hearted college students wearing hair-ribbons, ankle-socks, shorts
and other odd remnants of former
days.

Under direction of Leo Simmonds,
Rudd Hattie, and Ruth Skaling who
were the committee in charge the
dance was perfectly arranged. Jerry
Naugler supplied suitable music for
several appropriate and novel dances.
Ice cream cones and cake with sticky,
very sticky, frosting brought forth
screams of joy from all the little
sophmore kiddies when they sat
down to eat and rest from the strenuous proceedings of such a party.
And everyone danced with suckers
in their mouths—except when they
held the “Kiss Waltz.”

Kiddies clothes were not worn by
all. Freshman Hudie “Sophie
Smith” Chisholm, blond - wigged,
roughed, lipsticked, and wearing an
H.L.C. tunie lost no time in becoming the belle of the ball. Al Morrison looked like the wrath of Jehovah
in his hideous red wig and stovepipe hat, while John Rowley appeared to have sent himself to Cousins’
instead of his suit. He was wearing the well-known paper-slip (price
tag and all) of that distinguished
firm. ‘All went well with him until
someone tore it off his back. Even
Mrs. Murray MacNeil, the chaperone,
entered into the spirit of the night.
Wearing a gypsy-like costume, she
had feathers in her hair and Murray’s moccasins on her feet.

 

 

The Medical Society will hold a
meeting on Thursday, November 22,
at 7.30 p.m., in the Public Health
Centre. Important business is to
come up, and members are asked to
be on time.

—_————————— = — SSeS

 

ENGINEERING
NOTES

On Saturday, November 38, sixteen
members of the Enginering Society
journied to Liverpool, where, with the
permission of Col. C. H. L. Jones,
they were taken on a tour of the
plant of the Mersey Paper Co. After
seeing the plant at Brooklyn, the
boys travelled up the Liverpool
River to inspect the hydro-development supplying power to the plant
at Brooklyn. A most instructive day
for all was spoiled for some when
John Doull’s care locked horns with
a car from the States.

* * *

On Friday, November 9, a meeting
of the Engineering Society was
held in room 51 to discuss prospects
for another trip. It was decided
that the members would inspect the
Halifax Shipyards on Saturday,
November 17.

According to the financial statement read at the meeting by FE. B.
Smith, there will be no party for the
Engineers before Christmas.

% * *

Keith Wickwire was elected manager of the Softball team and it is
to be hoped that the team will have
more luck under his management
than it did last year.

Saturday’s trip to the Shipyards
was postponed indefinitely because
of word received from the Shipyards
to the effect that there would be
nothing of interest to see unless
there was a ship in dry-dock.

NEWMAN CLUB NOTICE

Members of the Newman Club are
invited to attend the Communion
Breakfast, which is to be held on
Sunday, November 25th, 1934, at the
Knights of Columbus Hall. Members
are requested to attend the 9 o’clock
Mass at St. Mary’s Cathedral, following which the breakfast will be
held,

for Glee Club

Production Chosen

The password in Glee Club circles today is “The Ghost

Train’’.

Everyone, from president to stage hand, is working

on this, the most ambitious project for many years. Directors
are frantically attempting to decide on a cast from the many
students who seek roles, stage managers are scouring the city
for the properties necessary for the technical effects, electricians are working out the light sequence, costume designers
have been given their notice of the requirements—in short, the
many departments that form the Glee Club are all in action,
including the Finance Department, which is engaged in a death
struggle with the Council to get necessary cash.

5 The latest word from the footDr. Wilson Addresses lights tell us that the cast of this
Commerce Students mystery drama, though not definite
The Commerce Society held its
first series of lectures at the Lord
Nelson Hotel on last Thursday evening, with Prof. George Wilson as
guest speaker. He spoke on his
travels and experiences through
northern Europe last summer. When
he and Prof. Adshead visited many
out of the way places, including
Germany, Russia and Austria, where
they gained admission to the new
Chancellor.

Harold Nelson, president of the
Commerce Society, introduced Prof.
Wilson and acted as chairman for
the meeting. Prof. Wilson began his
talk by relating some personal incidents that happened to him in
Germany. He enlightened the meeting on the attitude of the German
people towards Hitler, and gave the
audience new ideas on that country.

Russia was his next topic. He
described life under the present regime and contrasted it with that
under the Czar. When he had finished his talk, Prof. Wilson was questioned briefly on various topics and
then the meeting was adjourned.

The Commerce Society plan to
have further meetings of this sort
throughout the college year.

Frosh Councillor Is
Praised and Scored

Selected after some difficulty,

ly completed, has been chosen. They
are, in order of appearance:

Elsie Winthrop ....... Mary Harris
Richard Winnthrop...Sam Rothfield

Peggy Murdock.......... Edith Cox
Charles Murdock...... Earle Fraser
Saul Hodgekin...... Dave Maclellan
Teddie Deakin........Julius Forster
Miss Bourne. 5.06.8. 43. Edith Nelson
STE co Ruth Skaling
Herbert Price.......Howard Drover
John Sterling........Ernie Higgins

Jackson a detective ) Not chosen yet.
Two policemen... {

Though this cast is by no means
definite, in all probability there will
be few changes. Ruth Skaling, Ede
Nelson, Howard Drover, and Dave
Maclellan are known to the Glee
Club audiences, but the remainder
of the cast are newcomers to the Dal
stage, though most have had previous stage experience. Perhaps this
cast will be the nucleus of the troupe
of actors that the Glee Club hopes
to form; at any rate, they may be
counted on to give a good account
of themselves in this presentation.

The production is under the direection of Mr. J. P. (Joe) Connolly,
whose ability in stage management
has been more than once demonstrated to Dal audiences. He is being assisted by Harold Taylor—who,
by the way, is mainly responsible
for this interest in “The Ghost
Train”’—and George Murphy. Mr.
Connolly says that he is well pleased
with the interest and enthusiasm

David Maclellan and Ruth Weigand,| shown by the students in this pro
Class ’38, were deputed by their
classmates on Tuesday morning to
represent them in the forthcoming
Freshie-Soph debate in Bennett
Shield competition.

Forty-five minutes were spent at
the meeting in a general scrap over
the bodies of John Fisher, Freshman
“mother” and one of his children
who got himself into very hot water
by venturing to question the activities of the great Feescher” as Class
38 representative. Jawn was capably defended from the brutal attack
of the insolent Freshman by the latter’s classmates en masse, having
some caustic remarks to make himself. Everybody left in a huff.

President Joe Likely was in the
chair,

Medical Society
Completing Plans
For Coming Ball

Undismayed by approaching examinations, the Society of Med. is
determinedly completing arrangements for their annual ball to be held
next Wednesday night. Jerry
Naugler’s orchestra will supply the
music, but other arrangements have
not been completed and will not be
until it is definitely determined how
many will be attending. The Meds,
thus-wise, are sage and profit by the
mistakes of the Society of Law,

The dance is in the hands of a
committee of three—Bob Donahoe,
Jerry LeBrun, and Ed. Barnhill.
Chaperones will be Dean and Mrs.
Grant, Dr. and Mrs. Cruickshank,
and Dr. and Mrs. R. P. Smith.

 

duction, and is quite sure that the

cast will be well worthy of the
play.
Word from backstage tells of

‘mysterious doings under the super| Vision of that stage manager extra
ordinary, Warren Beazley. The stage
crew has the task of making the
“ghost train” and they seem very
secretive as to their methods. However, in the near future they promise to divulge a few, at least, secrets
of their holy of holies. There is
room for several students on the
stage crew for this play, and any
who are so _ inclined may get in
touch with Beazley.

Among the girls are Margaret
Kerr and Charlotte Lyall, to whom
are entrusted the costuming and
stage decoration of the play.

In a production of this size there
is room for an almost unlimited
number of assistants, and the Glee
Club executive have expressed their
wish to make this play the means
of interesting as many students as
possible in the arts of the stage.

Shirreff Hall Notes

The Aiumnae held their annual
Musical Tea at the Hall on Friday
afternoon. The rooms were thronged
with people, and girls coming in
from classes found it very hard to
get past the candy table.

 

 

Miss Elizabeth Ballem spent last
week-end at her home in New Glasgow.

 

Miss Moira Davidson has come
back from a week-end in Hantsport.

 

 

 
  
  

   
 

         

  
   
       
   

 
 

 

         
  
  
    
     
     
       
    
        
           
   
     
       
     
       
          
   
     
      
      
    
         
      
  
 
     
       
     
     
      
      
 
   

 

De
he eee Bie hr Sor : t 4 :
Dalhaicie @ Gazette || RAMBLING |
tn 4 > Y si si a > > a PE XY i i _ ee |
Se ‘ole ica” SOMETHING NEW) *
e 1 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America SOMETHIN wee:
a Sit A new -system*has been inaugurBe eee a ieee - AL ST/ we =. a ated at Olivet College, Michigan. All
ae te te Ee. 6 boummulsoy’ featurelof college eduis -<(Bditors ~*~ | ‘cation — “élass, attendance, hours,.
ae 4 ara * Sia oe ‘eredits, exams—have been abolished.
ee! SEGRE, fn. H ‘ Instead the students will use the
4S, Str ea 5 morning for~ study, afternoons for
5 RE RE Pe | < 5 " Ae EAC Utena
Ope: tee: >i tap News Editor athletics and evenings for organized
Pps gn Aa aeree ae RKEL debates, discussions, and social afae eee | 3 oh te: ; fairs. Professors will be tutors.
Literary Editor Sports Editor | students who want an education are
. 2 Se | BILL DAVIS | given an opportunity to get it. Our
8 ee aa ae ea 7 ’ B. 4884 | present mass-production system has
Pn ee Pee Se oe Assistant been done away with.
ae ee ae Year after year, we hear the same
| WALLAGE ROWLIN AGHER : "aS
ee an ir oS be ce a age as old criticisms of the examination
ee ee | system. Would a scheme such as the
y . ee ?3$3;., oaaaoeoeaa_ | : :
ek : A above be feasible for Dalhousie ?

 

mere e's ‘ : . - ~ ; a
eo Shien sot Ak -~-' OOP BALL
i 7 i i

be ae i. ~ © Auber douthall season has passed and this time, the first
jn years, Dalhousie is at the bottom of the League standing.
robably never before have Dalhousie’s Tigers been caged so

GOWNS AGAIN

According to news reports the new
dean of women at Queen’s has decreed that all women students shall
wear gowns. Her main object, apparently, is the abolition of the competition, which is often so ruinous
to the parental pocket-book, with
regard to dress. A very good argument for the adoption of gowns by
the Hall girls.

   

ty completely. - But if the team cannot be congratulated for its
-- guecess, warmest praise is deserving the sportmanship it
showed through every game. Despite loss of nearly a whole
team by injuries, the individual members turned out regularly,
| intermediates advancing to senior places, theirs taken by re-——s @ruiits from interfaculty. © Defeated teams are usually dirty
--—-—s« teams—ragged tempers are irked by success of others. Dal-. housie has shown RE aetiout the year a consistently sporting
___ style of play—hard and clean. This, in itself, is a success. The
ary, Gazette extends its congratulations to both the senior and inter
“apa 4

A ‘mediate teams for carrying on and playing their best in the face

of such discouragement. ae
_—— + Naturally the failure in football has resulted in criticism,
for it is defeat not success, that forces inspection. Criticism
jn former years was confined largely to the amount of money on
football. This year a plan, suggested before and given little
. attention, has been receiving more discussion. It is to have
_ Dalhousie drop out of the City League and to spend the money
thus saved in promoting interfaculty football.
---———s« Supporters of this project point out it will save money, of
-_which the Council’s supply is limited and the money used will
benefit a larger group. The fear that football as a sport would
-_- become extinct was disproved, this year when senior men, playing interfaculty stated they found ever so much more spirit in
it than in the dull regular grind of the City League practice.
Two or three games a week keep one healthily in shape, they
say, and do not kill interest by regularity. The fear that
mger and smaller students would refuse to play against
er, more expert, first and second team men was also diswhen “D” men were granted permission to play and

 
 

Pah. SD
- =
aes =

   

 

  

DEAN INGE

Dean Inge, of St. Paul’s Cathedral
in a recent article in Nash’s Magazine, expresses very well the sentiments of the outraged manhood of
Dalhousie. “Another unpleasant sign
of barbarization is the sight of
young women with splashes of crude
red on their lips and nails. To my
eyes, this is as repulsive as the similarly tinted patch which adorns the
stern of a baboon.” He marvels that
anyone can possibly be “erotically
stimulated by these disfigurements of
a face which Nature made pleasant
enough to look upon”.

  

  
    
  

 

WHERE IS EGBERT?

If some of the opinions that have
been expressed in various sections
of the Gazette in the past few
weeks had appeared a few years ago,

   

   
 
   

 

   

de ted intere culty sport. a chorus of Egberts (do you rememould eliminz | es of INJUYIES | ber that semi-legendary figure of two
rom the ex- years ago?) would have protested;

 
     
  
  
  
     

 
   
   
         
       
   
    
 
     
  
      
       
       
     
 
   
   
   
  
      

    
 

       
 

    
 

  

  

aconvenience| the oftice would have been deluged
i Spd a a oa hat some- with letters as courageous as those
it injured here while playing rugby | of the ‘fecently-graduated Aspiring

President of the Anti-Feminist Society. Even last year’s Cra et Labora have lapsed into lethargy. We
all seem to haye sunk into the
Swamp of Despond, into our tradi
rw} , r | p
nore serious than those to which we have become
ymed—weakened eyesight, broken noses, legs, arms ari
bones, torn ligaments and water on the knee. An injury
eyen this type is unknown in the more leisurely interfacult y
game, irs _ The plan, as suggested, proposes to pick from the various
competing teams an all-star team which could, once or twice a
fortnight, meet teams now playing in the League.
_  <~ Against this proposal would be all the force of ‘traditionalism. Students who have never bothered all year to turn out
- _ ‘to see a game would oppose it. It is probable Dalhousie graduva - ‘ates would protest. To many of them, it is the only interest
they have in their old college. The move would probably result
in poorer football, despite Coach John MacCarthy’s work in
raising standards of the interfaculty game. Although some
watchers of the recent interfaculty play-offs were of the opinion
ae the Rugby League games played there were the ‘prettiest’ seen
all fall, to the non-player the game would be less spectacular—
it would eliminate the noise known as college spirit. Bla? 5
ae Such a move would probably be favored by only a minority
of students; but the fact remains that football, at present costs
every student about $2.50 a year.

 

  

  

    
 

   

even current college questions. Alas,
what poor things we humans be!

 

  

PUBLIC SPEAKING

Public speaking is one of the finest of arts and yet only a few have
mastered its many intricacies. Many
a man has just missed the top for
want of this very art. About a
year ago it was our pleasure to hear
one who ranks high in the realm of
law. Several of his remarks remain
with us and it is with the greatest
of pleasure that we pass them on.
The prime requisite is to know your
subject. Preparation should be made
by writing and reading your speech,
+ by memorizing it, by me izi
A NECESSARY CHANGE | the eee as Janine
_- With the recent posting of the examination lists, the stu-|P7*°UCms extemporization.

_ dents are forcibly awakened to a realization of the fact that| 1° Put ever a good public speech
once again they will be sentenced to periods of more or less |°"° ™USt be Prepared to work, for
____ intense thought, in the gymnasium. And as of old they will| ("1 pe ne) wiper aptnate the in____ be kept in almost blissful ignorance of the resulting marks | @i8ence of his or her audience.
, Be obtained. Only in the case of a failure is the exam mark di-|C"UC!s™ 's rampart in these days
ee _ -vulged otherwise the secret is jealously guarded by the authori- os serolee males. apeve all donot
___ ties and remains as something to be guessed at by the person |*?°@* t0° long as this certainly de‘most interested. } a ee the merits of the speech.
a - It is hard to find any reasonable explanation for this oa ae oo rg
___ secrecy on the part of the authorities. But it has been whisp- Sav. achat vou hat cea ee
red that the Senate deems it wise. That august body argues ee Be caarerada) : wT ett
____ that if a student receives a mark of sixty-five or more when he audience ” a ‘_ See
_ expected less, on a Christmas test than there will be tendency EYiowtank aoeech 4 2 ne race a
_ toward a self-satisfied complex leading up to a failure in the|xow te edane. oe A fine ae
_ Spring. This state of affairs really never occurs. It certainly |«4nd he apsvied er +e
_ does not give the student any credit for ambition or pride i: taught ng ce ar Pees
_ accomplishment, for a good mark at Christmas is an incentive] Blessed are Wane a apirit:
_ to work for something higher at the end of the term, to sput | theirs is ‘the 14 a yy . ‘: ee
__ the student on to accomplishment and not to foster laziness. Plédead ake they dat 2 pate
____ Then there is the candidate who is awarded a forty one. they shall be comforted ea
=) He is, under the present system, kept in the dark concerning his| Blessed are the meek: for the
<e rk and, being human, over-estimates his ability fondly imag-|shall inherit the earth. _ :
; he has_ ust escaped a first class by a few points. So he| Nowhere can there be found a
s till the »pring when he realizes his mistake, too late. This|speech so strikingly convincing as
uling almost puts a premium on failure since it is far better |The Sermon on the Mount :
— ton as ae oe oa aie to have a mark in the '
r forties and no ow it. Therefore we urge on the|vincing his audi é
ers that be to communicate to the candidates of the ap- oe proof of eee ae
= a the results of their efforts and let them know. his inaugural address at Gettysburg
we Sten Uaey. Srand. aT wa an, Brive. | > _ | which is famous the world over. To

  

- r

ee.

a a
i

   
  

  

 

   
    
      

=
a

aoe:

  

       
   
  
 
  
 
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 

al
pe?

Abraham Lincoln believed in con
      

ww 7

i a 2. y ig x
Mn, wit tn aerate ee Ok xe
re ae ~~ 2p —s

a+

Pier tas. og Seer Fes em a ae Ae . 7 es
2a2 o tas? AY Spe ie ghiphts ga § ae , .

a

 

 

November 22, 1934

 

COMMENT

i BEER FOR N,. S. ?

. vi “We want beer’, demand the Nova
Scotia Hotelmen now in annual ses— at Halifax. The same cry Was|

neard early last spring when hotel‘men in the South Shore wanted, a
booster for - their American ~ tourist
trade. No action seems to have been
taken except’ more frequent rallys
of the temperance fiends who haye
pledged themselves to fight beer
legislation to the finish. Before
Digby took a plebiscite last year it
was favorably mooted that “beer by
the glass” had eventually come, but
the temperance Brethren stepped in
again and all the efforts of the ambitious hotel men were thwarted.
Seldom had a campaign been as complete as this temperance onslaught
on Digby when the evils of the old
shipping day saloons were recalled
and the degradation of Nova Scotia
was portrayed.

Why should a group of jaundiced
eyed temperance fiends because of
personal antipathy to anything alcoholical be permitted to impede beer
legislation and its consequential
boost to the tourist industry ?

Likewise why should not the people and principally the workmen of
this city be permitted to have their
beer if they so desire? Isn’t it ridiculous to think that any person who
happens to work until six p.m. is

denied the privilege of a drink and}

in order to appease his thirst must
prowl about the dives of Water St.
Is it not in such places that the
evils of liquor are most prevalent?

There are several reasons which
prompt some action on this beer
question. Firstly: It is held that
such legislation would be a great
stimulus to the tourist trade and a
convenience to those who already
travel in this province. Nova Scotia
is a holiday paradise and everything’
must be done to capitialize on this
our most. profitable source of
revenue. The Dominion Government
has already taken steps in the tourist
trade after it was pointed out to
them that it would net the Canadiain
public over 300 million dollars annually. Each province is asked to
do its part and Nova Scotia with its

|natural attractions pls a few inventive conveniences will stand to
share in this lucrative trade..

Some state that beer is no incentive to the tourist, if not, why after
the repeal of the 18th amendment
did the liquor returns of the Quebec
Government drop several million

dollars? One has only to go to |
tional coma and apathy as regards | Montreal and compare the hotel rush |

of American tourists before repeal
to the present day influx. The
Hotelmen of Nova Scotia are in a
position to know. They have asked
for this legislation so that they can
meet the requests of their clientele
and in many cases through the
revenue derived from the sale of
liquors prevent foreclosures.
Secondly: At this time when the
Provincial Government and many
municipalities are confronted with
mounting expenditures and dwindling revenues it would be a matter of
no small consolation to know that an
appreciable sum could be derived
from beer revenue, With this in
mind certain of the hard pressed
municipalities in Nova Scotia will
view wtih envy those constituencies
in Ontario which are to be given 20
per cent of the provincial revenue
from beer and wine licences and 20
per cent of the profits from sales
under those licences. In one city
slightly larger than Halifax, it is
estimated that the apportionment
will exceed $30,000. Perhaps it
wouldn’t be well to speculate on the
City Hall disbursements of such
sum but it is apparent that it could

be put to good service. Mr. Roose(CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE)

 

drive this point still further home
one has but to read Hamlet’s advice
to the players in Hamlet.

Public speakers are born and not
made but for those who lack the
necessary essentials let it be known
that public speakers can be made by
constant practice..

As the old saying goes, “Rome
wasn’t built in a day”—neither are
speakers. To those who were not
born sueh but who are striving to
‘|ward that goal we pass one some

advice—don’t try to be rhetoric;
don’t try to be funny; don’t try to
tell stories; don’t make apologies;
and lastly don’t perorate (don’t make

high sounding phrases),

 

 

POET’S CORNER

BEAUTY .~ 2°:

I have seen a flaming-sunset -.

| _.. Plunge into the ocean’s depth;

“os Seen a fragile, perfect snowflake |
| Fashioned by King Winter’s breath ;

 

‘Pale, thin lines of rain descending,
‘Rolling clouds go slowly by, _

‘While an opalescent rainbow
Trembles in the cold, grey sky.

I have seen a blooming garden
Rimed by early morning mist, |
Graceful flowers softly blushing,
By the gallant sunbeams kissed;
Storm at midnight; vivid lightning
Searing through the ashen clouds; |
Noon at sea: a white gull wheeling
High above the straining shrouds.

I have seen all Nature’s beauty ;
Day and night, land, sea and skies,
But the beauty most enthralling
Lies within your lips, your eyes.

MOVIE REVIEW [satis with the ambizuity of moo

in the picture as a whole.

 

At the most the picture can only
be called a fairly good musical
comedy which possesses many qualities which would appeal to the
average young person. But in no
sense does it merit the praise and
favorable criticism which has been
showered upon it by moving-picture
critics.

This picture, which has been lauded
by critics and given no less than
three stars in many magazines, is
really a discredit to that famous
musical composition on which the
picture is based.

It is true that Jeanette Macdonald
sings more charmingly than ever before and that Maurice Chevalier has
the tact not to sing any more than
is necessary. But neither of these

es
players would be capable of of carry- Something

es a picture by themselves and the
manner in which their personalities To Think About
are used is more interesting to follow than the personalities themselves.

Lubitich brings all his directorial
qualities to use and has never yet
shown them to better advantage.

 

 

A sure sign that winter is here—
Professor John Willis was seen wearing his proverbial leather mittens
[last week,

 

% * #

The Lord Mayor of London rereceives a salary of £10,000 a year.
and yet loses money on the transaction. You figure it out.

    
    
    
     
    
        
       
   
  
  
   
   
      

These qualities are a precise sense
of the tempo of speech and action
required for a comedy, this is what
eliminates the obvious from his type
of screen. comedy and is ‘therefore
probably the source of his well- Soa
known suavity among Hollywood| The defeat of Upton Sinclair in
directors. Ay pee California after one of the noisest
The settings in the picture are|campaigns on record, shows what
neither laborioius nineteenth-century | happens when anyone challenges and
reconstructions nor quite recogniza-|attempts to change the existing orbly modern, but an impossible blend|der through the medium of an old
of the two which corresponds ad- (CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE)

35 and ’36 PARTY

LOWER GYM
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 23rd, AT 8.30 P.M.

REFRESHMENTS AND NOVELTIES.
LAURIE HART AND HIS 9-PIECE ORCHESTRA.
TICKETS: $1.00 PER COUPLE.

 

 

 

 

:

 

 

 

  

Flow About That
New Overcoat?

We have lots of them in all the latest

styles and colors.

Priced at

$19.50 $22.50 $25.° $30.

 

NEW HATS — SCARVES — GLOVES and SPATS
At Our Usual Reasonable Prices.

Shane's Men's Shop

Thirty Spring Garden Road
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
     
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
   

Special Rates to

STUDENTS
~ 24 ome ae

See has Pictorial. .
Work for Gifts _

“48 Bitihg Gardren Rd
Phone B. 6992

 

     

_ | HALIFAX TAXI Co.
| At our B.73.76

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

       

    
          
   
   
 

 

: | Something to Think-
7 ’ party machine... However, the peo_ ple have been aroused. Merriman’s

% - yictory may prove to have meen too
‘eg peenrly bongs:

 

DéContnued from Page Two)

   
  
   

* *

  

 

2
ot

Pes

  

Recent niunicipal elections in Eng
* _ land resulted in sweeping gains by

the Labor Party. Coming as it does

Diccmdintcty after two decisive vic
i pries in parliamentary by-elections,

th his _ most recent success indicates
definite sly Sst Ae, tide of pe
mae

  
    
 
 
   

 
  
  
 
 
  
  

* * %

~ Mussolini's ideals are not popular
at ‘the College of the City of New
O¥ork. Recently a group of Italian’
f _ students representatives of I] Duce’s
fascist state were received with unie: versity honor by the college authori.- ties. The resentment of the student
- body reached a climax in the declaration of “Oust Robinson Wech”, in
the course of which eighteen 7a
_ dents were arrested for picketing
the home of President F. B. Robin
 

  

    
 
   
    
  
    
  
  
    
  
   
 
 
 
    
   
 
  
   

* * %

most of our roll.

EVERY DAY IS
BARGAIN DAY

AT

SIE.
TOP TAILORS

$23.50

MADE TO MEASURE
SUITS, OVERCOATS, FULL
DRESS AND TUXEDO.

  

422 BARRINGTON ST.

| him,
| cheered loud and long, and the many

{too much to say it was so.

 
  
 

In winter Old King Coal takes turned against the Phur

 

   

— fm — eee Se ee ce ke ee

) PHAPTER. 8

Br de, ia so it came to pass” that |
|} unto the Lande of - -Forrest: came the
Sod-A-Lees in. large. numbers to hold |.

what they surnamed a Parleement.
In the Chair of the Speaker and
wearing a hat that wouldn’t even fit
the small head of Spee the Spot sat
the Noble Co-Editor of the Gaz who
is too the Learned Prez ‘of Sod-ALees and who also comes from PicToo County which in itself is a noble
accomplishment, and along side him
sat the Crier Rhande. Unto the
right of The Speaker sat the Famus
Torees Hhanson and Davees who
were present to uphold the honour
of one Mr. Ben-Yett and his right
Hand Mhan Feesher of Feeshville,
while the Noted Lord Lohrens of
Margaree “along with Bentlee of
Quackerville told stories which would
not do justice to any good Mhan and
which were aimed at Mr. Ben-Yett.

2. Much Bull was thrown on both
sides of the House, but there was

|one who was the noblest man of all,
| but he was so much out of place that

we shall refrain from mentioning
_All night long the House

Meds that were seated in the Med
Libe at their Bhuks thought that

> the Mhen of Sod-A-Lees were gone

mad,

8. And perhaps it would not bee
The
mighty Lord Thur-Loh, whose voice
is loud with squeaks shouted like
A-Mhan A-Fire while his Frend
with the crutch did likewise. Sueth|erlande in the Speekers Chair knew
Lettle of his Buz and try as he would
| he could not keep order in the House
|The House of Sod-A-Lees turned into
a House of Babees. There became
such a mixed Con-Glom-Er-Ashun of
voices, one standing, one sitting, another laughing, another asking “order”, ALL shouting, that to compare the House of Babees to a Mhad
house would do injustice to the
Latter. One could never realiize that
our Mhen of Dal could be so Childish and yet enjoy it.

4. Then too in another part of
the Lande of Forrest the Meds are
preparing for a Struggle with the
Profs. And rightly so too, for is it
| not true that the Meds, especially

fe “| those of the Seconde Year havé more
at | orke than any Human can ever at
tend to. And so they hatched a plan
—a plan which is bound to be successful, Kommittee after Komittee

‘was formed to go unto the Profs

and to beg for mercy.
can be no more th

The profs
an human and

| they must see that the Phur Seconde

Year Mhen are worked to a frazzle.
Every night they burn the Midnight
Oil *til the wee sma’ Hours in the
Morning — but ’tis of no avail, for
does not Mayenlande the Lean himself pile on enough Ang-Tomee to
keep the Meds Buz for weeks, as if
there were no other Subjects. And
too now even Ber-Bij, who at one
time was known as The Kind, has
Seconde
Year Mhen as he is turning the Med

| School into a College for the Clasgies.

The Seconde Year Mhen must
know their Latin, which is bound to
come in handy at the operation
Table. How nice it will be to be able
to put the Pashents to sleep whispering sweet Latin phrases in their

   
    

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

B-6070

 
  
     
 
      

Nova Scotian Hotel

JERRY NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA.

. Tickets: Couple, $3.00 : Single, $2.00. f

 

a |
‘hog

~

DALHOUSIE eeSTTE |

| THE FOURTH BOOK OF BUNK

 

| im nent *
of Eroties

SOPHISTICATE at

Miss Moyra Biltership stretched
luxuriously and prevented the uprising of a yawn with a barrage of
gentle pats. She had just finished
reading de Maupassant’s all too
vividly realistic description of ‘A
Woman’s Life’—her confidante, Lenore, had recommended it to her because it was so much like the life
of Mrs. Desmond, who ‘should have
been divorced from him simply ages
ago, but was so old fashioned in her
ideas on the subject.’

“Rot!” she said, and threw it to
one side—the maid would pick it up
—“She wasn’t a woman, she was
just an animal. Wonder if there’s
anything to drink in the house?”

Miss Biltership was one of the
group of useless members of society
—the self-termed ‘upper crust’. Her
great-grandfather had accumulated
a fortune in some obscure manner—
some believed it to have been piracy
—but she never spoke of it. That
she possessed it was her carte
blanche for membership in her set.

Her life was one of utter boredom
to her. She was constantly seeking
something new to give her a thrill
and relieve the monotony of existence. She had tried everything that
it was legally possible to get away
with—and a lot which, if done by
others less wealthy and _ socially
prominent, would have meant a prison sentence. She never went to the
same night club more than three
times unless it was exceptionally exclusive or entertaining. Sometimes
she went with her friends on a
slumming party and paid well to see
(just another racket) people doing
what she wouldn’t do in public herself, and which perhaps they would
not de except for the price she paid
—it amused her.

Her language was that of her set
—the stock expressions of, “Not
really?”, “Heavens!” and “Oh, my
dear!” plus the latest slang and expressions of the ultra-modern columnists, which ‘were used today and
discarded tomorrow because they
were then’ passe. * She knew ‘a smattering of French and would inflict
it upon anyone who appeared to be
listening to her at the moment.

Her conversation consisted mainly
of topies of which the bourgeoise
knew nothing or would never think
least ealeeieiiige ehsinsijertigtlieenta ings abet tiene ths

 

Ears. And so the Kommittees are
justly formed, and ’tis hoped that
the Profs will be merciful, and
harken unto the demands of the
Weery. Meds. |

5. And now once again the Glee
Cloob is coming into its own. When
trials are called, forty Studes rust
out to try for Parts in the Drama.
With so many applicants ’twas very
diffieult to choose the Best. Hal of
the Tay-Lour clan along with Murfee, and Connollee, worked very long
before they could find the best, and
Tryal after Tryal was held. The
“Ghost Train” is going to be the
most spectacular and largest ProDuks-Yun the Glee Cloob has ever
attempted. 'Tis written that new
Days are here again for the Children
of the Drama, and all will pashently
await the day of the “Ghost Train”.
siete eee SS Saye iter se

 

| MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

DRUGGIST

Halifax and Bedford

     
    
 

a
SY

 

‘| the

rat Sisciastas with a person of half-.

|hour’s acquaintance — the newest

_|cocktail which gave the greatest

‘kick’ with the least effort to consume}; the latest: risque story; the
most recent » novel or play which
had been banned by the" censor—but
only the latest topics. She was
never embarassed by the mentioning
of any problem concerning sex, often
beginning the conversation on the
subject herself—it was plebian to be
otherwise.

She had long been the possessor
of an expressionless face when in
public—nothing could upset her composure. At parties she assumed a
fixed smile and sometimes deigned
to raise an eyebrow when something
really novel was said. Her plastercast make-up would have been
simply ruined if she stretched her
facial muscles too much.

She spent hours each day making
herself attractive—at the masseuse,
the hair-dresser’s, the manicurist’s,
the beauty shoppe’s, the dress-maker’s—all in the hope that some night
some man would drink too much and
ask her to marry him. When he
sobered ahd realized what he had
done, he could either go through with
it or allow her to bring a breach of
promise suit against him, either of
which was welcome to her, for both
meant the flame of the social butterfly—publicity.

She was always ‘among those
present’ at any social function of
importance. She was always being
photographed for the rotogravures.
She liked nothing more than to see
her name in the social columns of
fashionable’ newspapers and
magazines.

Her highest ambition was to make
a brilliant marriage with someone
above her own set, if possible, and
have one or two children on which
she could lavish her affection and
thus become a respected matron. A
divorce could be easily obtained on
some inane charge, if necessary.
Thus would she live and love and
suffer.

This was Miss Moyra Biltership,
whose only excuse for being alive
was that it was fashioinable and
ultra-sophisticated — and she was
Bread of it.

* *

Our thought for the week: Mable

*

‘writes that all her friends have

operations to talk about, but she has
never been able to afford one— they
are too expensive.

Yes, Mabel, what this country
needs is a good five-cent scar.

Erotically yours,
DIXIE DOTT.

This a posthumous writing of
Dixie Dott, whose death was reported last week. A willing worker, her
loss will be felt by everyone.—Ed.

STUDENTS’ FORUM

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

Sir—Last year I missed the freshman lecture on “British and German
Universitys”. The talk being repeat- |
ed this year I welcomed my opportunity to hear this interesting topic, |
so capably handled by Dr. Hays and
Prof. Willis.

Both men concluded their speech
by showing that apart from a late |
hour restriction at Oxford, complete |
freedom of study and play is ob-|
served.

Gordon Thompson, chairman of the
meeting, apologized to those present
—and called the roll. What a paradox! The speakers finish discussing
student liberty. Then,—the roll is|
called,

The talk was enthusiastically re-|
\ceived and applauded vigorously.

 

 

 

 

Afterwards it was ascertained about
thirty were absent.
The “attend or else . system
|in vogue this year for the fresh is
most unfortunate. A threat is a
challenge.
(CONTINUED ON PAGE FOUR)

7

DANCING AT 9.00.

Ob a eS Beek Well”

 

Page, Three

She just popped the question

— “Have you got a Turret?”

and of course he has. Hence

the rhapsody. In a flat or
anywhere else for that matter,
Turrets are part of the enjoyment picture—the satisfying
answer to the question of

what's best in cigarettes.

Quality and Mildness

 

rret

 

CIGARETTES
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Comment-- —_ [i bec his own obstinney and

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)

velt indeed found a nest egg when
he legislated beer because it netted
his government over $150 million
and almost closed his budget gap between income and outgo.

Thirdly: One must likewise consider the resultant stimulus to business activitiy from the sale and
manufacture of beer. Firstly, there
are the ingredients of beer, some of
which must be bought from the
farmer. Surely any assistance to the
farmer is not deplored by our temperance friends. Secondly, the crating, bottling and barrell industry
would be affected by any increased
manufacture of beer. Advertisers
must be employed, stores must be
let and service hired. The boom of
the Roosevelt regime was attributed
in no small respect to the general
business activity stirred as a result
of the repeal enactments. No one

can deny that such action in Nova
Scotia would help many industries
which in turn benefit the Province.

Fourthly: It is held by temperance
‘brethren that beer and wine licenses
will invoke much evil. Perhaps for
the first few weeks there will be a
little over imbibing but one must
only look to the countries which
permit beer to be sold and it is apparent that such practices don’t
‘continue. Which is a better sys| tem;..to.have beer licences given to

 

it because his own obstinancy and
inherent weaknesses will lead him
to it. Isn’t it natural for a man to
want something if he is told that he
ean’t have it? Let drinking be
placed upon a respectable basis in
full view of public scrutiny. When
such is done there no longer is the
incentive for a man to pollute himself with liquor. Doubtless there
will always be the occasional drunkard but - is a known fact that under an “open air system” the violators are minimized.

Is Nova Scotia going to lag~behind the other provinces of Canada
and the principal countries of the
world because a body of temperance
fiends circumscribed by their own
personal antipathies to anything
smelling or sounding like alcohol
don’t want it?

England, France, Germany and
Europe, the United States, West
Indies, South America and parts of
found the system
feasible. What is wrong with Nova
Scotia? The local government has
a monopoly of the liquor trade and
under the law the whole business is
carried on by the vendors. Such
practice seems unfair to the Nova
Scotia hotel trade.

Canada have

This group find

it difficult to maintain the high
standard of their hostelries, pay
wages to their personnel, taxes to

the municipalities and maintain an
efficiency without which this city
lost

and Province would bé

tourist resort.

as a

 Sivnectabie Hotels, restaurants and |

‘taverns on the main thoroughfares |

 

lin the full view of the’ public w here |
BIRKS-- |

\ beverage as well as encountering all |

/a man can drink respectably, or, a |
|system where it is necessary to|
‘sneak around corners, dodge police |
‘and frequent filthy “speak easies”
‘and run the risk of consuming bad

the vice and scum that there is to
find in a seaport town?
always want to consume spirits of
|some nature and it is folly to tell

‘him that he can’t conveniently have |

 

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

Haireuts 25c.

BERT BOWLBY
445 BARRINGTON STREET
(Over Buckley’s)

 

Man will |

|

| New arrivals in hand| bags for Milady are
arresting in style, material, and color.

Evening bag's, too
—timely gifts.

Henry Birks & Sons

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S

 

Medical Society Ball

Wednesday, November 28

Tickets obtainable from:

J. R. Donahoe, E. W. Barnhill
G. J. LeBrun, Don Sanderson
Henry Ross, Ted Byrne.

 
  

  

Law Retains Rugby Title

Defeats Med In Two Straight.—Slippery Field Slows Game.

Winning their second straight victory over Medicine in the
Interfaculty playoffs, Law retained the championship of the
Interfaculty League. The win climaxed two seasons of play in

which the Law team have not

While Saturday’s game wasn’t as good as Wednesday’s,
from the spectators’ viewpoint, the field being slippery and
the mud-caked ball hard to handle, yet the fans were treated to
a rugged display of football, both teams working hard during

the whole game.

For the first ten minutes of the
game the Med. scrum, controlling
the ball, kept Law on the defensive,
and only the fine tackling of Bob
Baldwin, Smith and McGillivary
kept Medicine out of the scoring
column With Medicine pressing hard
for a score, Howard Drover broke
clear with only Boyd McGillivary to
beat, but a beautiful tackle by Boyd
pulled him down on the Law fiveyard line. This was the only real
scoring threat of the Med. team, for
although they continued to try hard
the Law line was never in danger.

The few times the ball came out
of the Law Scrum, Ken Cougle,
playing a stellar game at outside
half, sent his three-quarter line
away on long runs into Medicine
territory. Some pretty passing by
Connor, Smith and Hinchey almost
resulted in a try, Mike grounding
the ball back of the Med. line, only
to be called back when the line judge
said his foot had struck the corner
pole.

The first half ended with the ball
in Med. territory, neither team haying scored.

In the second half the Law scrum
functioned better, and with about
three Lawyers marking Wishart and
Drover, the play was confined to
Medicine’s end of the field. Following up fast on a loose ball, Hinchey
kicked it across the line, to dive on
it for the first score of the game.

The ball was heavy and Mercer |

missed the shot on goal. The Law
front line of Mercer, Ross and Batt
were now working better and giving
their backfield a chance to show
their strength. Cougle got away
for a twenty-five yard run, but was
brought down a foot from the line.
Hal Connor, taking the ball from
Smith, was over, but was travelling
so fast that he was pushed into the
touch in goal line before he could
ground the ball. 
With defeat staring them in the
face, Medicine put on a last desperate rally and had carried the play
back to centre field before Hinchey,
intercepting a pass, ran the ball back
forty yards before being downed by
Krebs, who was playing a star game
at full back for Medicine. With a
minute to go, G. Smith broke clear,
cutting in nicely, and carried the
ball to the line before passing to
Hinchey, who relayed to Connor,
who scored to complete one of the
prettiest plays of the game.

Mercer, Law’s star forward, took

been defeated.

the kick, but the ball passed under
the bar, the game ending 6—0 for

Law.

The whole Law team worked well,
every man on the team deserving
credit for the victory. While the
the
playing of Wishart, Drover, Lebrun,
McDonald and Nicholson was out
Med. team also worked hard,

standing.

. Law—B. McGillivary, full-back; H.
Connor, G. Smith, M. Hinchey, E.
Arab, three-quarters; S. Khattor, K.
Cougle, halves; McDougal, Ross,
Grant, Baldwin, Batt, Sutherland,
Mercer, forwards.

Med.—I. Krebs, full-back; Drover,
three
Strong, Devereau, Aikens,
quarters; McDonald, Lebrun, halves;

Dove, Eagles, Wishart, Simms, Nich
olson, Wilson, forwards.

Interfaculty Softball

KING’S 16; FRESHMEN 13

 

In a game in which each team had
a big inning, the King’s team took
a close victory. A last inning rally
by the Frosh nearly robbed the winners of their large second inning
lead. Both teams showed lack of
practice, and the many errors were
due to early season playing.

Kings—D. Douglas, c.; P. Willet,
ms 6. Pratt, 1b.; J. .Orlando,. 2b.;:
H. Pratt, 3b;  N. MacMahon, ss.;
White, l.f.; Trowbridge, c.f.; French,
Te.

Freshmen—D, Lyall, c.; M. Hinchey, p.; Graham, 1b.; Ritchey, 2b.;
H. Reardon, 3b.; Renouf, s.s.; W.
Moss, I.f.; Walsh, c.f.; B. Crosby, rf.

 

DENTISTRY 3—ARTS & SC. 3

The second game of the opening
night of the Pre-Christmas League
was the more exciting, as the teams
were forced to an extra inning and
were still unable to break the tie.

Both pitchers had the high sign
on the batters that opposed them, as
many a pitch crossed the plate untouched. Ken Cougle was in the box
for Dentistry, while Arts & Science
had Harry Gaum twirling.

Arts and Science—Beeber, c.; Horowitz, 1b.; H. Gaum, p.; Fergusson,
2b.; Homans, 3b.; Rae, s.s.; Mackles,
lf.; Stewart, c.f.; Schwartz, Lf.

Dentistry—Goldman, ¢.; K. Cougle,
p.; Valero, 1b.; Bloom, 2b.; Brown,
3b.; Lipschitz, s.s; Figman, r.f.;
Helflet, c.f.; T. Rogers, Lf.;

 

 

Make Sure the

For Christmas

 

 

and compare favorably

Rigmel shrinking is just another reason why TATONIA shirts
are the best regular value in town. The fabrics are magnificent
with shirts much higher in price.

Shirts You Buy
Are...

RIGMEL Shrunk—
Ask for

Ealonia

SHIRTS

The Best Regular
Value in Town
at, Each

$2.00

De
signing — collar moulding — reinforcing and tailoring are of a
standard that successfully met the tests imposed by our Re
search Bureau.

The new patterns and colors
novelty

designs that will catch your
shades and white. Sizes 14 to 17.

are in. Stripes in profusion—
eye—as well as plain

Buy for Christmas now,

and be sure your shirts are marked EATONIA—Rigmel shrunk,

In plain white separate collar
vertible cuff. Ask to see it.

style only we have a new con
Eaton’s Main Floor.

“T. EAT

2)
LIMITED

ON

 

 
  
    

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT REVIEW

By TED CREASE.

Law copped the Interfaculty rugger title for the second
consecutive year as they took two smooth wins over Medicine
by scores of 11—3 and 8—0. The brand of game dished out in
the playoffs was of senior calibre and the credit is directly due
to Manager Ernie Richardson and Coach McCarthy. Interfaculty sport is on the up and up.

The exhibit of rugby league shown to the fans by two Dal
teams last Saturday, while poorly played, left no doubt in the
minds of the fans as to which is the better game.

Ping Pong enthusiasts will be disappointed to learn that
Dal will not have a team this year but open tournaments will be
held after Christmas under the management of Leo Green.

By sitting on a session of the Management Committee of
the D. A. A. C. the writer formed the following opinions; that
the D. A. A. C. is no longer a defunct organization, that team
budgets are being kept down to necessity, that the officers are
really working to put the body where it belongs, and that they

‘are saving the Council a lot of work.

The basketball house league has been abandoned now that
regular practices are being held. Most of last year’s Maritime
Champs are out and together with the new material promise to
make a strong team.

The Interfaculty Bowling League which has been nonexistent for the past few years should be resumed. This is the
opinion of many trundling fans. What does Ernie think about
it?

The Interfaculty All Star rugby league teams as presented
on this page could in my opinion take the senior team into camp.
The contest would be well worth watching at any rate but there
is small chance that such a game can be arranged.

Did you know?. . . that twenty-four players participated
for Dal in senior football this season . . . that Whittaker,
Wolves’ defenceman, is registered at Dal . . that Charlie
Anderson, 1934 basketball captain, may perform for St. Andrew’s Intermediates this season. . . that football expenses are
incurred before they are allowed . . . that Jim Crosby was a
unanimous selection for the All Star City League rugby team
. . . that Marg Kindle, physical instructress is a former Mt. A.
basketball star . . that varsity hoopters who have retired,
such as Harold Davidson and Ernie Richardson, may be in the
game this year.

Rugby League Football
Tried on Dal Field

On Saturday afternoon a small crowd took advantage of
Coach McCarthy’s invitation to witness, gratis, a Rugby League
game played by two teams chosen from the players who had
represented Dalhousie in the City Senior and Intermediate
leagues. The Rugby League game differs from the Union
game, which is better known to the fans, in that each team is
composed of only thirteen players, there being but six players
in the scrum and the positions equivalent to wing forward and
scrum half of the Union game being handled by the one man

 

 

in the League game.

The fact that the scrums are not
allowed to break until the ball has
passed out, helps to speed up the
play, since the scrum and outside
halves have a chance to get their
three-quarter line in action before it
is bottled up by the forwards of the
opposing team.

The only time the rules allow the
ball to be kicked into touch is when
a penalty kick has been awarded. If
at any other time the ball is kicked
into touch without first alighting on
the field of play, a scrum is called
back at the spot where the ball was
kicked.

While Saturday’s game _ could
hardly be called a first-class exhibition, this was partly due to the fact
that many of the players scheduled
to play failed to put in an appearance and the coach was forced to do
some hurried substituting. The game
was wide open, the players on both
teams apparently relying on the old
slogan, “the best defence is a good
offence”, and, as the 12—all score
indicates, there was plenty of scoring. The scoring was .done by
the broken field running on a slippery field indicates the possible advantages such a game has over the
Union game, since a wet day always
means a dribbling battle between the
two packs.

Bauld, Magonet and Bud Peters
were the pick of Buckley’s team,
while Bud Thompson, who appears
to be improving with every game,
had a major part in keeping his
team in the running.

Ross’ Team—F ull back: Gosse, H.

Ross, C. Manning, McKinnon, G.
Thompson; three-quarters: R. McLellan, G. H. Thompson; halves:

Stephenson, Ball, D. Ross, Fraser,
Armstrong, L. Simmonds, forwards.

Buckley’s Team — Full back: J.
Worrell; three-quarters: J. Buckley,
D. Bauld, J. Crosby, H. Magonet;
halves: H.- Flynn, C. Miller; forwards: Lawrence, McKenzie; Victor,
T. Rogers, B. Peters, Beeber.

ee

 

Students’ Forum

(Continued from Page Three)

Why not a system of checking up
on absentees and pointing out clearly they are missing some interesting
talks. But by all means have those
who are attending there in the spirit
that an enlightening lecture is being
give for them and that it would be
stupid to miss it. A compulsory
system ferments a rebellious attendance,

At an early meeting this year the
freshman class filled in blanks showing what sports they preferred. Immediately after the meeting they met
every professor of whose subject
they were registering. Why not follow the same system for freshman
athletics? Let the manager of each
team interview each candidate for
that sport and encourage the student to practice regularly. The
manager is the only logical and natural person to present the frosh!

A student who takes athletic
training unwillingly will revolt
against a continuance the following
year. But a large percentage of
those who are now being forced
could be guided to a game of which
they would develop a liking and continue to play it for the duration of
college life.

Surely a few failures in the first
year of such a system is better than
a hundred per cent success the first
year and a fifty per cent failure
thereafter.

My advice to those who would help
the frosh is to try guilding — stop
pushing.

Sincerely,
ORA—for the Frosh.

 

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.

Halifax Steam Laundry
Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

 

CASINO

STARTING SATURDAY
NOVEMBER 24th
e

JOE E.

BROWN

Sarees

“6 DAY BIKE RIDER”

Soon!
THE “BUNDLING” HIT!

“THE PURSUIT OF
HAPPINESS”

SKATING

(A Contributed Opinion)

It is a sad but uncontrovertible
fact that figure skating and ice
dancing, so far as Nova Scotia is
concerned, is quite an undiscovered
country. True it is, that, before the
advent of hockey, a form of fancy
skating was in vogue, but figure
skating of the perfection of today
was quite undreamed of. Why we
lag so far behind the rest of the
world in this beautiful art is a question rather hard to answer. Perhaps,
situated as we are, a little out of
the beaten path, we have had fewer
exhibitions given us, or perhaps it
is some kind of a peculiar prejudice
against it. However, one thing can
be said, that no form of ice recreation is making greater progress
from year to year than figure skating and ice dancing.

One reason is the multiplicity of
artificial ice rinks. Almost any city
of any size now has a rink, and, indeed, England is rapidly becoming
the skating centre of the world.
Skating there practically continues
all year round, and Sonia Heinie and
other world champions practice at
| Bournemouth and London.
| We in the Maritimes would find it
ee to raise that kind of enthusiasm, and indeed four months is considered a long season.

One of the greatest skaters in the
world, Irving Brokaw, of New York,
has made the statement that it takes
twenty years to make a skater. Of
course he means a really first-class
one, and very much less time is required to become quite an efficient
one.

Some kind of an opinion appears
to be prevalent that figure skating
is something, say, in the athletic
class of ping pong. Those holding

 

 

November 22, 1934

 

L. M. MONTGOMERY’S
FAMOUS CLASSIC

ANNE
OF

GREEN
GABLES

With ANNIE SHIRLEY
as “ANNE”

Fri. - Sat. 
Canterbury Room

While students were at
home during the summer
The Green Lantern made
a decided change in decorating The Canterbury
Room. Cosy and very

nice,

 

The Green Lantern

 

 

those views have only to try it to
be thoroughly disillusioned. Nothing
requires stronger or more supple
muscles or more courage than proficiency in this form of winter sport.

One local body, the Halifax Skating Assembly, is endeavoring by
every means in its power to advance
the interest of scientific skating and
dancing and are beginning a winter
Season on December Ist, to continue
until April 1st. Sessions are to be
held on Monday and Friday afternoons from 4.30 until 6.30, and night
seasons as well. This, with the annual Carnival, will give a full winter’s sport, and the belief is felt that
many of the student body will take
advantage of the facilities offered by
the Assembly.

The chairman of the Assembly is
football Coach MacCarthy, from
whom all information may be had.
Given reasonable support, the skating assembly will do its part in furthering the beautiful and graceful
form of winter exercise.

Interfaculty All-Star Team

Saturday saw the final curtain on the season’s
The Gazette has seen fit to pick

Football League.

Interfaculty
an All-Star

team for the season, basing its choice on selections made by
three of the leading contributors to this page—Ted Crease, I;

Neil Ferguson, II,

and Henry Ross, III. The teams being picked

on the basis of playing throughout the league, regardless of

whether they advanced to Intermediate or Senior ranks.

I. F.B., B. McGillivary; threequarters, H. Drover, M. Hinchey, H.
Connor, G. Smith; halves, K. Cougle,
H. McDonald; forwards, F. Wishart,
I. Krebs, H. Sutherland, C. Manning.

Il. F.B., B. McGillivary; threequarters, H. Connor, G. Smith, M.
Hinchey, H. Drover; halves, K.
Cougle, D. Bauld; forwards, E.
Wishart, I. Mercer, H. Gaum, R.
Baldwin, M. Musgrave, H. Wilson.

Ill. F.B., R. Stanfield; three
quarters, G. Smith, M. Hinchey, H. |

Gaum, H. Drover; halves, H. Con
nors, K. Cougle; forwards, F. Wish- |
I. Krebs, H.|

art, M. McGillivary,
Sutherland, E. Eagles, I. Mercer,

GAZETTE 1934 ALL STAR

INTERFACULTY TEAM :
F.B., Boyd McGillivary (L); three-|

quarters, Hall Connor (L), G. Smith
(L), H. Drover (M), Mike Hinchey
(L); halves, Ken Congle (D), Don
Bauld (Comm); forwards, Frank
Wishart (M), I. Krebs (M), Harry
Sonitinnanisiquenstinitsbsinesternnsenseinigeennncnsice ieee oss haces’,

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

2 9 a 3
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

       
       
     
       

 

  

”

Sutherland (L), Ike Mercer (L),
Harry Gaum (Arts & Se), Milt
Musgrave (Comm).

 

Halifax Transfer
~““ B, 7138

 

 

  
  
   

G. A. McDONALD
TOBACCONIST

Smokers’ Requisites of
Every Description.

A Complete Stock of CIGARS,
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO
and BRIAR PIPES

21 Spring Garden Road

HALIFAX,
WINNERS *20%,2
START
For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you
play the game with the best
that’s in you.

Cragg Bros. Co.
Limited.

Hardware & Sporting Goods.

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

  

 
       
   
   
       
  

 
 

  

 

 
