 

 

VOL. :

 

Official Student Publication

  

on ~S at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 29, 1934

 

 

No. 9

 

Med Society Ball Reaches

Standard of Former Day

 

Once again the Meds can point with pride to an achievement peculiar to those embryo doctors, namely another suc
~ eessful annual dance.

Last evening amid glamorous surroundings and a beavy of beautiful maidens the medicos
and others shuffled to the syncopating strains of Jerry

Naugler and his orchestra.

Tradition has it that the Meds and
the Lawyers vie with each other as
to the success or failure of their respective dances. This year the Meds
fell short of the eighty dollar deficit
that the Lawyers established. Bobbie Donahoe was assuring everyone
the dance was O.K. financially.

The Initial Impulse started the
Ball rolling. Barney was heard to
complain the impulse was to walk
on the feet of somebody else.

The committee made history by
failing to bring the Med Society
skeleton out of the closet to give it
the prominence it formerly held on
the stage of every annual. Maybe
it was dismembered for the approaching practical. Oh well, Jerry
did just as well amid an atmosphere
of cocoanut palms and South Sea
isles.

The Initial Impulse was _ closely
followed by a Biological Assay. It
helped to bring about Diphasie Variations. Jerry helped by playing St.
Louis Blues, while Jamie Hupkirk
exercised his vocal cords for the
general benefit of all. The party

was well on the way to success when
tees Optimus Temperature

was

reached. Temperatures went up

_ eonsiderably when Jerry refused an

encore even at John Rowley’s request. Yes, John was there. Later
on we saw Bobbie go out for a SurThompson was overheard apologizing to someone for football tactics.
Anyway, it brought about a bad
ease of Knee Jerks. From then on
the best anybody could do was the
gical Neck; but we forget who
with,

Most of the Peripheral Resistance
seemed to centre around the stiff
collar area of a few of the males.
While the crowd resisted all attempts on Jerry’s part to end the
number. At last Ventricular
Rhythum was initiated and systoles
were restored, much to everybody’s
liking—(if Del’s smile is indicative).

The first call for supper brought
about plenty of Hunger Contractions. Everybody voted the meal
first class. Ruthie ate plenty, likely
because she’s a Hall girl. Evatt
dined voluptuously, so he said. His
contented expression on leaving the
dining hall also said plenty. Triple
Response played the deuce with
everybody’s nerves, even George
Clinician’s Crawl, which Bailey eventually turned into a Houseman’s
Hobble. Dean Grant admitted Muscular Fatigue. So with Miss MacKeen as the brain trust the Brownian Movement began. Late leave
turned out to be early morning
leave for the Hall co-ed. Their going brought about Locomotar Ataxia.
Ted Thorne had some trouble with
his and had to call a taxi (a). Twilight Sleep closed the eyes of many
—some had already closed. Thus
finis was again written to a Med
Dance, as successful as any that
have gone before.

The chaperones were Dr. and Mrs.
H. G. Grant, Dr. and Mrs. R. P.
Smith, Dr. and Mrs. E. W. Cruickshank.

The master minds behind the
scenes were Bobbie Donahoe, Jerry
LeBrun, and Edward Barnhill.

 

Hall Girls and Pine Hill
Compete To-Morrow Night

Final Glee Club Show of Term.

The Dramatic shield hands in

the balance tomorrow

evening as the Glee Club presents its third entertainment

of the year.

Friday night’s program offers drama and

music in a somewhat different arrangement from any thing

presented recently.

The plays to be produced will be done

by Delta Gamma and Pine Hill, the latter having won the
shield for excellence in dramaties for 1933-34.

The musical part of the programme will consist of orchestral
numbers by the newly formed group
under the direction of Murray Ryan.
This orchestra, composed entirely of
university students, is the first attempt in this line since the days of
Walter MacKenzie and Sina Singer,
and the Glee Club hopes that this
group may qualify to form the
nucleus of a symphony orchestra in
the future.

The Delta Gamma play, Miss
Tassey”, is under the direction of
Professor Burns Martin of the English department of the University.
The scene of the action is laid in
“Bedroom No. 65” between the hours
of nine and ten in the evening. The
cast:

Mins Tastey.).45%.. Ruth Crandall
Miss Livieston........ Ruth Sumner
Miss Postlewaith..Martha Keniston
Miss Rose Clifton....Ruth Wiegand
Sarah Florence Keniston

The second play, presented by

Pine Hill, is directed by Mr. Geoffrey

Marshall, and is entitled “A Night
at an Inn”. The scene is laid in an
inn on an English moor, and the
cast, which includes several names

familiar to the Glee Club, is as follows:

The. Tet joc... e. Fraser Nicholson
WTR Ue tyre eto xia. p< Charles Anderson
CIO Si cick ex bans Earl Gordon
POTTS a ate er John King
Three Priests ...... John Jarvie
Jack Scott

Wilmur Fraser

There has been a noticeable increase of interest in the Dramatic
Shield, and the number of competitors is greater than ever before.
Much is expected of these plays and
much will be realized, and the winner of this award for 134-85 will be
truly of dramatic calibre.

NOTICE!

All students please note that on
Friday night, in accordance with
the decree of the Students’ Coun
cil, the Council ticket will admit
but one person. The charge is
25 cents for any person not presenting a Student Council ticket
at the door.

 

———————— ees
——

PINE HILL ON PARADE /|Prof. McDermot Discusses
‘“Has The League Failed?”’

On Thursday of last week professor T. W .L. McDermott
of McGill University, secretary of the League of Nations of

Ss A more or less informal ‘basket
ball league has been inaugurated in
Pine Hill, consisting of one floor
against another, the games decided
by challenges. Last week the first

and second floors of the old building,
designated respectively the “Helleats” and The “Vultures” battled for
the unofficial championship of the
old building. After many abusive
cries from the spectators, “Gordie”
Darrach was put off by the referee,
who was of course impartial (?).
This was not the worst playing featured by the “Hellecan’”, however, as
Art Wright seemed to think he was
playing football and acted accordingly. He managed to escape the
eye of the impartial referee, however, (Andy MacKenzie), and did his
best to disfigure for life those who
did know a little of the game. ‘The
efforts of these two were in vain,
fortunately or unfortunately, and the
“Vultures”, thanks to the brilliant
playing of Pope Anderson and the

 

 

 

 

guard, who wears spectacles and has
beautiful curly hair combined with
the foulest Cape Breton accent.
Need we say more?

A challenge issued by the “Bulls of
Bashan”, otherwise the respected
theologues of the third floor annex
has been nobly answered by the first
floor of the same building, whose inhabitants style themselves collectively the “Gladiators”. This epic-to-be
has not yet been written for the simple reason that the battle has not
yet been fought, but more of this
in our next.

Things We Would Like to Know

When “Mac” MacQuarrie is to
have his next date?
How “Pat” Patton manages to

keep warm for four hours on end

in Point Pleasant Park these wintry

nights ?
Why Harvey Bishop gave up danc
ing lessons and decided to take up
nursing ?

Why Don MacLeod did not turn up

antics (for we can call them noth-|for dinner one Tuesday, and ate a

ing else) of

a certain opposing | hearty supper on the same evening ?

DALHOUSIE MOURNS

A pall of gloom has hung over the Medical School
and Dalhousie since the announcement of the untimely
death of Thomas Martin, 27-year-old fifth year student

in Medicine.

Interning at Aberdeen Hospital, New

Glasgow, Dr. Martin was taken with pneumonia and
died Saturday morning after a week’s illness.

Coming to Dalhousie to take third year Medicine,
Martin was to graduate this year. He had an excellent
record at McGill University, where he took pre-Medicine, and at North Dakota University, where he studied
up to the time he came to Dalhousie, receiving there a

\B.Se. degree. At North Dakota he was district sprinting champion and became well known in intercollegiate

athletic circles.

At Dalhousie he confined his interests chiefly to
studies. He belonged to a Montreal fraternity which is
unrepresented on this campus, but was particularly

friendly with local members of Phi Chi.

Throughout

the Medical School he was well liked and his death was

a surprising shock.

Dr. Martin is survived
he met at North Dakota.

They had no children.

by his widow, Joyce, whom
The

body was taken directly from New Glasgow to Montreal

for interment.

 

SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT

Sir Oswald Mosely, leader of the
British Fascists, won his libel suit
against the Evening Star, which he
claimed had presented his political
program in a false and violent light,
a typical example of British justice.

 

Undoubtedly the highlight of this
weeks views is the royal marriage
between the Duke of Kent and
Marina of Greece which takes place
on the 29th of November—today.

 

In the last five years the money
transference from Canadian operations of F. W .Woolworth to the
parent company in New York which
owns the Canadian concern amounted
to $11,174,312. A good example of
the old adage if you look after the
pennies the dollars will look after
themselves.

 

Naval parity is merely one of the
issues which the United States and
Great Britain see behind Japan’s demands, and her threat to renounce
the Washington Naval Treaty. There
are two other very important factors
which must be considered, the second one is whether these countries
should acquiesce in the territorial
and political expansion of Japan, the
first step of which was the creation
of the state of Manchucuo. The third
issue concerns the expansion of
Japan’s exports which have increas
as to seriously injure American and
British trade.. Then there is the establisment of a state oil monopoly
in Manchucuo, which injures the
rights of Anglo-Saxon oil interests
and grants special privileges to Japan, that country contending that
only those governments which have
recognized Manchucuo which have
benefit of the open door.

The result is that all three countries are building up their defences
in the East. No one can foretell the
future, but one thing is obvious that
is that the matter is going to reach
a head shortly.

 

Mahatma Ghandi has evidently
tired of fasting. He has resigned
from his post as president of the
Indian National Congress. Whether
he means to arouse more trouble in
India remains to be seen.

 

Geneva action is awaited on the
question of disarmament and more
particularly on the control of manufacture of munitions as the result
of the assemblage of powers now
gathered there to discuss these questions. This should prove of special
interest to Dalhousie students having regard to Mr. T. W. L. MacDermot’s lecture at the Chem.
Theatre last Thursday.

 

Bridge is one game where honor

ed so greatly in the last two years | counts,

 

 

Canada address students of Dalhousie on ‘Has the League
Failed ?”’

The speaker gave a general outline of the league, the composition, and covenant, which is a contract signed by several

governments.

The two main objects of the contract are, first,

to co-operate and secondly to arbitrate, the articles describing
the manner in which this is to be done.
The league has been marked as a|on armaments annually.

failure because it has failed to prevent war yet no one would say tha’
medical science has failed because i
has not succeeded in eradicating dis
eases. This analogy can be carried
a step further as to the multiplicity
of causes in each case and the mode
of treating each one individually.
A very important factor which
most people are prone to forget
when criticizing the League is that
it is only fifteen years old whereas
the causes of war are as old as mankind. Most of the criticisms that
are labelled at the League are either
fallacious or unfounded, but there
is one which requires some attention
and that is that the league is a costly
institution. Mr. McDermott then
quoted a few statistics which are a
good indicia of the love for peace
by the various nations. Five million
dollars are spent a year on the
league as compared with five hundred million dollars which is spent

Dal and King’s

 

In closing Mr. McDermot pointed
out that the League has proved its
worth in the humanitarian field and
is a stepping stone toward the
goal of world peace. The League
has proved itself to be an indispen:
sible centre to nations in which to
air their various problems, and this
is one of the chief reasons why Russia has joined the League, and may
be the reason which will persuade
the United States to join it in the
near future.

After the criticism which the
League has received and is receiving daily, it is very refreshing to
to say the least to hear some one
step forth and support that institution which may as yet prove itself
to be the panacea for the ailment
of this strife torn world.

The meeting was characterized by
the small attendance which is expected at. any event of this sort in
Dalhousie.

Students

 

Take Part in Model League

The 7th Annual Intercollegiate Model Assembly of the
League of Nations was held at Acadia University, November 22nd, 23rd and 24th. The sessions were featured by in
structive addresses by Prof. T.

W. L. MacDermott, Secretary

of the League of Nations Society in Canada.
The first formal session heard Germany’s terms for re
entrance into the League.

These terms, stated by Harold

Hreeman (Mount Allison) were (1) Equality of Status in
international relations and in disarmament: (2) settlement
of war debts; (3) a redistribution of Colonies. These terms
were very indignantly opposed by the Italian delegate,
Wm. Pipe (King’s College) on the grounds of Germany’s
present militaristic attitude toward the rest of the world.

Germany’s claims were upheld by

the British delegate,

Phyllis Burns (Dalhousie). Rebuttals were offered by Germany and Italy. Among those who took part in the general
discussion were Chester Jostrum (Acadia), Ronald Copp,
(Dalhousie) and Allan Findlay (King ay

At the second session of the Assembly Russia’s request for admission to the League was presented in
a very able speech by Stanley Cumming (Dalhousie), who stressesd
Russia’s peaceful policy and her
value as a connecting link between
east and west. J. C. Munson (Mount
Allison), representing France, supported this request, while the Canadian representative, Margaret Leonard,, of Acadia, opposed Russia’s
entrance into the League. B. Andrews, A. Chase, Wm. Douglas, A.
Jardine, E. Higgins, R. Shaw, S.
Cumming, and H. Perry took part
in a lively general discussion which
followed.

The afternoon was given over to
round table discussions on two subjects—(1) “That party politics in
the Canadian provinces no longer
serve the best interests of government”, and (2) “Resolved that Canada should withdraw from the
League of Nations”. Among those
who spoke briefly on these questions
were P. Cawdron, Grace MacIntyre,
M. Gibson, A. Jardine, E. Higgins,
R. Copp, and M. Messenger. Prof.
Mercer summed up the discussion in
a few words. (2) J. C. Johnson, M.
Tilly, H. Troop, D. Coulter, A. Linkletter, W. Grant, and W. Burcell.
Prof. Curtis of Dalhousie closed the
discussion concisely.

On Saturday morning the As
sembly dealt with the declaration of
the delegate from the United
States—Bruce Fergusson—that the
failure to reach an European settlement has been largely due to the ge
titude of France. The delegate made
an excellent condemnation of the
persistently selfish attitude of
France, which was capably refuted
by the Yugo-Slav delegate—Frank
Templeman, of Acadia. Others who
took part in the discussion were iL.
Goreham, Wm. MacLeod, H. MacGlashen, A. Findlay, and H. Watts.
At the concluding session Allan
Findlay, of King’s, representing
Austria, sought the protection . of
the League. He was supported |‘ by
Hicks (Mt. A.), the delegate from
Czecho-Slovakia, and opposed by the
Polish member, D. DeLong, ,of
Acadia. Those who took part in the
discussion were: B. Eaton, B. Fergusson, R. Shaw, B. Pipe, A. Chase.
At the conclusion of this discussion the Chairman, Harold Perry,
formally adjourned the Assembly.
A resolution was drawn up and
passed by the Model Assembly
whereby the Model League becomes
2 corporate part of the League of
Nations Society of Canada, and
Standing Committees are to be set
up in the various Maritime universities to carry on work in connec
tion with the League throughout the
(CONTINUED ON PAGE FOUR)
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
   
    
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
    
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
  

a Pr = ae SE
ee oa ee eat —— =.
peer fee oe a. 2 iv —s ‘ \ :
wt 4 .. —- - cme . ¥
- i ee Ses nema — — ~ ae ee at te
ee SUR als Ghee fe
aaa ee ee 7 ie % me : By o>
a r) a " LE. = a , i
7 ia t~ ee e se * ~ <
a a" 4 x sy Sa. - '
ee fi ee" k ~
estas
in i? ae r ;
aoe © Ar lle
boas } r a
ers . .
* ‘.
L#
. AATE <>

 
 

- i fe me “ae oe e n :
ri ¢ * .-' ¥
Founded 1869. . “The Oldest Col
\ a ale v7 w— ete ene
- - F x ae

EDITORIAL STAFF

 

 

Editors ~~ ; =
: . F. E. GOUD
pe Pe eeAND B, 6295
News Editor
ARTHUR MERKEL
B. 5108
Literary Editor Sports Editor
AL REID BILL DAVIS
B. 5827 B: 4884
|} —s«G.: D. WALLACE ROWLINGS ARTHUR MEAGHER
ae B. 4647 _ B. 2886
E i , WALKING
(fe ae tee Walking is the most leisurely of all exercise. Not even

golf, in which the fun to most players is confined to walking,
requires as little effort. But there is no sport as quietly pleasant as a long tramp and which gives such a return for its effort.
Swinging along under trees, leaping brooks, annoying squirrels
to make them chatter, and throwing stones in ponds to watch
the ripples—these are all-to be enjoyed while walking. ‘T'wo
hours, good pipe, comfortable boots and the prospect of a full
swarm meal on return—no picture could be more enticing.
-— »~—. No wonder that it is the sport of kings and none, too, that
it is not theirs alone. It is the universal sport. Of course,
‘these are varying rules. Some are never happy without pack
- on back and planning a whole day’s ramble. The Germans
| ~—s gpecialize in week-end walks. Englismen prefer to walk along
ce the roadside, tweed clad, brown-shoed, and cane in hand.
Canadian rules, of course, specify woods—walking is not popular
on the prairies. We like to get-away from city and town, out
to the quietness of trees.

-.. Walking is the happiest way to see the beauties of nature.
One simply cannot glance and rush on. It results in one seeing
everything, in taking time for the impression of the scene to
have fullest effect. Nothing, for instance, is prettier than to
see below one, a tree clad valley, with stream or lake at the bottom: and to know one is alone in one’s enjoyment.

| HAS THE LEAGUE FAILED?
Professor T. W. L. MacDermot, secretary of the League of
Nations Society in Canada and a McGill University history professor, seems to be of the opinion that the League has not
failed. He stated, in his lecture to students here, that while
an ; the success its founders hoped it would be, the league is
a prime force in international affairs, and despite its many
remains the world’s only hope of lasting peace. Mr.
several of these criticisms, pointed out
them were, and, we think, successfully

gical many of
‘Unfortunately, Mr. MacDermot did not discuss more recent
weaknesses of the League—the failure to satisfy Germany, the
~ unsuccessful attempt to settle the sino-Japanese and the Bolivia_ Paraguay wars, and the undue powers given the smaller states.
It is these problems which have given rise to the opinion the
League is dead. These are the reasons prompting Italy’s
quickly acting administrator, Mussolini, to suggest the peace of
_.Europe and Asia be guaranteed, with force if necessary, by the
four great powers, England, France, Germany and Italy.
The League from its beginning has been weak, because its
teeth were never used. When United States refused to join, the
development of an international police force became as impossible as was the plan to boycott erring nations. From its birth
-it was parliament with very restricted powers and no means of
enforcing them. About all it could do was to collect world
statistics and move to eliminate slave and drug traffics. Even
its plans to supervise captured German colonies and protect
European racial minorities have been frustrated.

The League, up to the present, has failed to complete the
original objects for which it was formed. War talk is increasingly prevalent, more money is spent on deadlier armaments
than before the Great War and Balkan minorities are vigorously
planning ways to promote the wars they expect to return them
to their parent nations. On‘these grounds it is said the League
has failed, and on these grounds, if we believe Lord Beaver‘brook, the British Empire should withdraw to build up its own
defences.

But if the League has failed, or is to be allowed to fail,
what then? The alternative system of alliances and balances
of power, with its deliberate appeal to passion, is only provoca‘tive of war. Apparently the world must realize that it is either
‘war, or a strengthened League. It is interesting to note that
‘the English Conservative Party, which ten years ago refused
‘the principle of collective force, has realised the day is gone
when the British navy can itself police the world and leader
Stanley Baldwin hints to the nation an international police force
‘is necessary and that League supervision of armament manufacture is a present hope of controlling that vast, secret power
for war. It is interesting also that communist Russia, fearful
of Japan, has returned to its old love, la belle France, and that
ithe United States, equally fearful of the little yellow man,
moves closer to the shelter of Geneva.

But suppose the League is strengthened—given an army, a
right to budget for the army, and a full control over armament
manufacture, will it then be assured of success, even if Germany, Japan and United States should become members? With
all this, could a bulky congress, representing every nation in
‘the world, or an equally cumbersome council of the noisest na_ tions in the world, act quickly enough to punish convenant
_- ‘breakers? Would it be proof against failure?
co The only period of international prosperity recorded by
___ “history is that under'the Roman emperors. It is probable that.
aes 5 had Napoleon remained in power, the trade in. his Empire would
_ ‘have brought it wealth. These were super dictators, whose
____-wills tumbled tariff walls and whose police prevented anarchy.
pee - They assured stable government.
__.__ Could a man like this bring peace and wealth back agair
today? Siege ak eeeiy?

et

Stra |
ar Ta

Ce
ce. aps
“we


— e! *

ie

7
(tet

=e a
oa ae:

i
A

. Fe or bak Semen od

 

Veena

<a

*
’

The Rambler noticed in his rambling of the past few weeks—

| That the Library is very noisy. It
‘}was remarked that those who most

noticeably broke the silence sacred
to students were the every ones who
so assiduously jump upon the under
grad who is so bold as to whisper

to his neighbor about his work.
These archcriminals were the librarians thmeselves, and also more
particularly, two or three of the Arts
School professors. Even if the students are not allowed free ink, they
might at least be allowed. freedom
of silence.

That many small improvements of
our grounds have been made since
last year, for all of which we are
truly thankful. There has_ been,
however, one gewgaw placed on the
campus which we do not appreciate
so well—that glorified tin flower-pot
in front of the Arts Building steps.
Perhaps our aesthetic sense and our
notions of fitness “are undeveloped
or defective, but it seems to us to
conflict with general tone imparted
to the campus by the arrangement
and architectural style of the buildings.

That a barbarous militarism or an
unchristian gloating over a nonexistent victory or sheer laziness
still keeps on the campus a pile of
junk which was once a German field
gun. It serves neither as a fitting
memorial for war dead nor as an
object of beauty or utility. Few of
us seem to care. Quite lacking is the
fierce spirit of righteous indignation
which in former years induced students to drag boisterously the gun
blocks away from the campus.

That the new rules about gym
smoking seem to be as little enforced as the old ones. One of the
most flagrant violators of the rules
is a member of the exalted D. A. A.
C. executive.

That Classes ’35. and ’36 are to
be congratulated for originality and
initiative in their use of gym conveniences for their party. There
was, however, no reason, except lack
of proper management, why these
classes could not have cleaned up the
lower gym by noon of last Saturday. They would not then have deprived our habitual wrestlers of the
exercise of their art that afternoon.

 

The Degeneracy of Human Nature

Chesterfield maintained in some of
his writings that “age has degenerated and that from the fall of the
first man our species has been tumbling on, century by century, from
bad to worse. Considering this progressive state of deterioration, it is
a very great mercy that things are
no worse with us at present; since,
geometrically speaking, the human
ought by this time to have sunk infinitely below the brute and the vegetable species. . But is this
really the case? Certainly not. _ It
is only one of those many errors
which are artfully seattered by the
designs of a few, and blindly adopted by the ignorance and folly of the
many... . .Climate, education, accidents, severally contribute to
change these modes; but in all climates and in all ages we discover
through them the same passions, affections, and appetites and the same
degree of virtues and vices.”

 

Something To Think About

“We live the time that a match
flickers; we pop the cork of a ginger
beer bottle, and the earthquake
swallows us on the instant.

Is it not odd, is it not incongruous, is it not, in the highest sense
of human speech, incredible, that we
should think so highly of the ginger
beer and regard so little the devouring earthquake? The love of Life
and the fear the Death are two fa
RAMBLING |COMMENT

l

GAZETTE

November 29, 1934

 

AN NRA FOR CANADA?

. Canada along with the other nations of the world .has experienced
the financial pinch of the present
economic depression. Her foreign
trade has been cut and her internal
markets disrupted. It is natural
that suggestions of all discriptions
in such a period should be forthcoming for the alleviation of our disasters. But chief among these ideas
where here and there appear in the
Canadian newspapers are ones advocating the adoption of an NRA for
Cananda. A definite recovery programme for Canada has become a
prime necessitiy and as such the
NRA warrents investigations.

The opinion of the press and the
government officials seems to be that
to rush into such action would be|
foolhardy. They say let us wait
and see if it is successful. Our
country is sensitive and indeed bound
to fluctuations that occur in the U.
S. A. Even though Canada wished
to avoid being interested and refrained from deliberately pecking at
the NRA, the events transpiring
there would force themselves on
Canadians because affairs in the Dominion must necessarily be influenced
by what happens in the republic.
So then why not judge the act, consider its merits and applicability to
Canada, while anything that may be
otherwise could be scrutinized with a
view to avoidance.

But there are many salients features which do not favor its adoption. One thing in particular is that
economic conditions here are different in many respects than in the
United States. For proper functions
the plan requires a more self-contained economic structure than the
U. S. A. has in the past possessed.
Canada is more interdependent than
the United States. Mr. Roosevelt
has restricted imports and trade intercourse with the outside world.
But in Canada we cannot get along
without foreign trade and no policy
requiring its curtailment would find
favor or be practicable here We are
listed among the great trading nations and rank first in value of per
capita exports. Foreign trade is almost the basis of our economic structure. We borrow heavily from other
nations and therefore must export
goods to pay for these borrowings.

Canadians must stop and question
also, has the American plan been
successful? If there has been some
prosperity must we credit it to the
scheme? The other countries of the
world have experienced of late a
slight revival and they have no: such
plan.» When it is remembered that
world business andthe prices declined. persistently during the three

severe deflation brought special and
extraordinary difficulties to the
United States, it seems only fair to
concede to President Roosvelt a full
measure of credit for the courage
and honesty of purpose with which
he has sought to bring order out of
the confusion. Whatever misgivings
may be aroused as to the ultimate
results or whatever the objections
raised to the workings of the plan,
it is true that in the relatively short
time of ten months there has been
visible improvement
business.

It is true that our position is not
quite as desperate as the American
one before action was taken to alleviate it. At that time the United
States was in a condition of national
despondency with its banks closed
whieh meant a curtailment of business activity throughout the country. The nation needed action and
the President gave it to them. We
had no such banking crises or such
a general slump in internal business
activities, but our situation is seri
ous and must have immediate atten(CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE)

in American

SS

mous phrases that grow harder to fact. A frank and somewhat head
understand the more we think about
them . . All literature, from
Job and Omar Khayyam to Thomas
Carlyle or Walt Whitman, is but an
attempt to look upon the human
state with such largeness of view as
shall enable us to rise from the consideration of living to the Definition
of Life . . . . As courage and intelligence are the two qualities best
worth a good man’s cultivation, so
it is the first part of intelligence
to recognize our precarious estate in
life, and the first part of courage
to be not at all abashed before the

hi ba :
pple peat cil Ale Mc eit)

long carriage, not looking too anxi
ously before, not dullying in maudlin

regret over the. past, stamps the man

who is well armored for this world, |

and not only well armoured for him
self, but a good friend and a good}

citizen to boot.”

Ah, my Beloved, fill the cup that
clears

Today of past Regrets and future
Fears—

Tomorrow ?—Why, Tomorrow I may
be SNS cs pS

Myself with yesterday’s.Sev’n Thousand Years. pis a ihihes

years up to July 1933, and that

 

 

Gazette
BOOK REVIEW

“HOLY DEADLOCK”
(By A. P. Herbert)

In his latest novel, Mr. Herbert
achieves a double success. He has
produced not only one of those satirical novels which so delight the
hearts of English humour addicts,
but within the novel he has called
attention to a problem’ which
should make the British law courts
sit up and take notice.

It satirizes the machinery of the
English divorce system, holding up
to public ridicule and contempt His
Majesty’s judges and courts, and the
legal code which they administer in
matrimonial causes. It might well
prove to be the Uncle Tom’s Cabin
of English divorce, yet, in reality,
it goes beyond this narrow field. It
is a fiery polemic against all dead
tissues in Law itself.

However, one does not have to
read “Holy Deadlock” (perfect
title!) as a Treatise on Divorce, for
it is most Ingeniously and skilfully
written—too much so, in fact; for
here Mr. Herbert, in his enthusiasm
for the non-fiction material of his
subject, falls into error in two ways.

He succeeds in making the legal
material into a novel only by means
of a most complicated plot which
becomes so involved as to keep the
reader in a most unpleasant state
of uneasiness. Also in his endeavor
to do two things at the same time,
the author falls in the trap which
all humourists try to avoid, so that
the reader finds the first part of the
book delightfully humourous, then
mildly amusing, and towards the end
almost boring as far as the novel
content is concerned. Interest is undoubtedly sustained, however, by the
legal substance of the book.

 

RENUNCIATION

The curving pews.are filled with happy faces,

Aisles gay-bedecked with roses freshly blown;

The clergyman and groom assume their places;
. I sit alone.

The organ sweetly peals in muffled splendor;

The ceremony ends; the bouquet thrown;

I close my eyes to hide her kiss more tender
Than I have known.

Position, wealth—her great ambitions—are hers,
But vaguely still a mem’ry I recall:
The night I hung her two elastic garters

Upon my wall.

 

Mr. Herbert redeems himself by
the final climax of the trial before
Mr. Justice Cole (in the Court of
Probate, Divorce and Admiralty, under the symbolic emblem of the
Fouled Anchor) when he rises to
fine eloquence which seems to us
fair on both sides. It forms a rather
brilliant conclusion to both the satire
and the novel.

It is only fair to add that it is not
written out of any personal discomfort, for Mr. Herbert is very happily
married and dedicates the novel to
Mrs. Herbert “on the nineteenth anniversary of her wedding”.

Glee Club “D”

 

Following the decree of the Students’ Council the Glee Club Exeeutive have officially announced the
qualifications necessary to the winning of a “D’”. It is understood that

‘there will be two types of Glee Club

“D.’s”, a dramatic and a Glee Club,
the latter to be awarded for backstage work and the like. Such decisions rest usually with the executive.

There are 20 points required for
a “D”. Under the.new plan 5 points
will be awarded for a leading role
in a regular production, 3 points for
a minor role, and 1 point for an appearance. 3 points will be given for
backstage work. per show on the
recommendation of the stage manager. Extra work in this line gains
extra points. 7 points are won by
the producer of an entire Glee Club
Nite, and 5 points by the director of
a one act play. Assistant directors
also get credit. Specialities in musical and variety shows are awarded
2 points.

This covers the scope of the
society, and if work is done which
is not included in the above, it will
be graded saccording to its value by
the .executive.

 

 

 

— WHERE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE ——

Flow About That |
New Overcoat?

 

 

We have lots of them in all the latest

styles and colors.

Priced at

$19.50 $22.50 $25.°° $30.° |

 

NEW HATS — SCARVES — GLOVES and SPATS
At Our Usual Reasonable Prices.

Shane's Men’s Shop

Thirty Spring Garden Road

   

Soe

 

   

Discount of 10% Allowed Dal Students.

 

”

 
 
    
  

  

     
     
   
     
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
    
  
  
     
 
    
  
    
   
  
  
  
    
 
  
   
   
    
 

    
 
      
     
    

  

While students were at
home during the summer
The Green Lantern made
a decided change in decorating The Canterbury
Room.
nice.

The Green Lantern

Cosy and very

  
 
   
     

 

Comment-
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO) ~~

tion or the consequences will be not

too pleasant to portray.

. A Vancouver paper states it would
be impossible for us to imitate the
NRA. It explains that the NRA is
the mandate conferred on the presi
dent by the people, lawfully acting
by their lawful representatives in

Congress. “There could not be the
least imitation of the NRA in

- Canada, except by the will and consent of parliament, and that will
and consent has not yet been signified. A change in the Canadian Constitution will have to be found to

adopt such an act.”

The NRA has placed great power
into the hands of labor. Do we
want labor to have such control?
Both industry and labor face momentous decisions. The choices they make
will determine whether U. S. progress toward industrial and _ selfgovernment and planned economy is
to be orderly and rapid or halting
and market with bitterness, needless
misery and possible chaos.

Perhaps the prime reason for not
adopting it or similar measures is

that, so far ,to us it has not proven

the forecast of its promoters. The

- unrest in big and little industries is

sme
a H

    
 

in

—
~~
a bh
—

fs
ag 5

 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  


;~

i obviously widespread despite _ the
_ doctrines of peace. A wave of labor

peer. ¢

  

troubles sweeps over the country.
“workers in New York, potato
Idaho, leather workers in

   
      
   

  
 
 

eae jom to show America is having
__-_—-—s its Jabor troubles. Truly the NRA

is at the cressroads with the future
in dispute. Not yet a success or a
complete failure it is likened by the
New York Times to a cart before
the Horse on the upgrade. “When
the amazing new government vehicle
first began its journey, it was hoped
by many that the switch in position
to put the cart behind the horse,
could be accomplished while the road
was level. Now it is distinctly uphill and narrow, multiplying the difficulties of the task.”

As the emotion aroused by Mr.
Roosevelt’s driving personality and
superb powers of leadership dies
down, the difficulties in carrying

forth the plan will become more

   
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
        
   
  
   
   
    
   
 

He
er a ce
oe
Ee . P
be my!
Ga

a Let us hope for the success of the
Bee's. NRA, for the consequences of

failure are not pleasant to contemplate. Let us stretch out a hand
to Mr. Roosevelt for his courage.
Let us lastly admire the American

test. But, for the moment watching
and praying is about all Canadians
can do. Literally the best we can
do is wait and see what becomes of
the uncertain Rooseveltian plan be
_ fore we emulate it on any degree or

ia, dyers in Seattle, these

people for their stability during the.

CHAPTER 9°

1. And so it came ‘to pass that
the Lande of Dal, which is always
so peaceful and quiet was visited
by Skandal—something which was
unknown by the Studes except a
chosen few. The beloved Deexes
Dhot had died it .was written, but
lo it was not so simple! Her Kolums
which were known unto the Studes
as The De-Phart-Mhent of hErr-antics will no more be seen in the
Phages of the Gaz-Jett; they had
been canned by the Noble Editors
of the Gaz, and the Reezons are
easily to be seen.

2. The butiful Whomen of the
Lhande of Dal could not stand the
Truth. They felt that when Ad-Vice
must be given unto them as to the
ways of Life, it is time for something to be done. They are the Flour
of Youth; they are the Co-Eds of
Dal; they are the Learned; they are
the butiful; they run the Mbhen;
what more do they need! Why
Why should they be asked to listen
to the Words of another TongueWagger. And so they wrote unto
the Editors of the Gaz-Jett that
Deexee Dhot was skandalizing them,
she was komparing them to: the
sophisticated Ladees; she was speaking of things which they do but
which should not be spoken about.
So spake the butiful whomen of Dal
to the Editors, and they said “Put
this inhuman Person out of your
Gaz-Jett or we shall.

38. The Noble Editors went unto
the Domane of Deexe and told her
the sad Tale; told her that as yet
the whomen of Dal were not ready
to take Ad-Vice; they must only give
or be unhappy . . Deexee spake
unto the Editors that they shall
have their way, and with tears in her
Eyes she said she would never again
put Phen to Paper.

4. As the Editors left her fair
Domaine sad and speechless, she
watched them disappear in the distance and then she turned away
from this unjust World. She had
made an Oath never to write again,
but she must have her last Little
say. She wrote the last words that
were ever to be penned by Deexee

 

Dhot, and then drank of-sweet Hem
lock, as her Hero Sokratees hag
done. She fell to the Floor—Dead
— N’eer to arise again. She had
been killed by the selfishness of her
own sex, who are now sure to feel
happy, for now once again they will
be able to give advice to their Mhen
who will never again listen to the
wisdom of Deexee Dhot.

5. Her famous last Words came
into the Hands of the Scribe of Bunc
and he feels it his duty as Fellow
Kolumnist to pass them on _ to
Posterity. She wrote:—“I have been
falsely accused of telling Tales of
the Ladees of Dal and of punning
too much. This I shall do no more,
but my Soul is so full of Sorrow
that I must express my last sentiments in verse, which I dedicate to
the Butiful Whomen who have asked me to end my life:

|“The women of Dal are not fickle

They’re as sweet ‘as the acid in

‘pickle;

They go round all the time,
Saying men aren’t worth a dime,
But yet they’d call him Honey for

a nickel.”

6. And so it came to pass that
in the Lande of Forrest the Meds
were waging a strenuous battle with
the Profs, and in a small Degree
they were successful. The learned
Yung of the Rocky Shores of Cape
Brett had harkened unto the pleas

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

a ~~ —— eae

BOOK OF BUNK | STUDENTS’ FORUM

 

The Modern Myth

 

Not long ago, a friend, whom we
will call Lizzie Lisp for descriptive
purposes, was asked what was her
conception of a myth. Betty scratched her blonde head for a _ minute,
then her face brightened and she
replied with a child-like naivety, “A
myth ith a woman who hath not got
any huthbanth”.

That answer seems to be the general impression of the subject which
the average person entertains. Per
haps a woman who does not possess
a husband, or at least does not cherish the idea of one, is a myth. But

So it has been proposed that an
article dealing with this most interesting subject be prepared. This
sketch will be written in modern
language, so as to present the subject in a manner to suit the tastes,
vocabulary and intelligence of the
mythically “average student”.

The definition of a myth may be
found in any good dictionary. This
article will deal with the Greek conception of the origin of the World,
Gods and Men.

 

In the beginning there was Chaos,
a yawning abyss composed of Void,
Mass and Darkness in confusion.
Time, the changer of all things,
caused Chaos to spin until it formed
a ball and then split into halves
through centrifugal force. Of these,
one half was Heaven, the other
Earth. Uranus, the personified
Heaven, took Earth to wife, and
from the union came thirteen Titans
—the personification of mighty convulsions of the physical world, the
instigators of hate and strife—and
the lightning and the sea.

Of the Titans, Cronus, the crafty,
and his sister, Rhea, were the most
important. The influence of Rhea
is still felt—see advertisements concerning “Pink Tooth Brush”, etc.

Cronus killed his sire and, with
Rhea for a wife, ruled Heaven and
Earth. They had three daughters,
Vesta, Ceres and Juno, and three
sons, Neptune, Pluto and Jupiter.
Cronus had the laudable habit of
swallowing the brats as soon as they
were born, but Rhea grew tired of
having the fruit of her labors served
as a desert and_ substituted a
stone wrapped in a-negligee for Jupiter. She had no children after
this.

Jupiter was brought up by his
grandmother, Earth, in Crete. Eventually he reached maturity and went
back to his parents. He was so big
that Cronus grew sick of seeing him
around the place and disgorged the
five brothers and sisters.as well as
the stone and negligee. The stone
is still preserved in Delphi for proof,
but the negligee found its way to
France. There are some rather similar stones in France, too, but these
are Gaul stones. _

Naturally, the five released children were rather peeved at their old
man for having eaten them, so they
decided to have it out with him. All
their uncles and aunts (the older
Titans) were against them, but af
 

Nuse, a Shout arose in the School
of Med as was never heard before.
And now when the Meds are asked
who is the most Learned and most
Pop-u-Lar Mhan. in the Fakultee, lo
the Name of Professor Yung leads
all the rest!

i
a

Dear Sir—I should like to call
your ‘attention.-to the contents of an
article published in your issue of
November 22, under the heading,
“Pine Hill on Parade.”

I am neither a prude or a crank,
but as Catholics comprise about a
seventh of the faculty and students
of the University, I think you owe
us the courtesy of refraining to
publish such narrow-minded bigatous
rot, and as a Catholic I object to the
ridicule directed to my religion in
that article.

Every college has its own little
jokes and customs, but why inflict
them upon the public? No one
would censure or ridicule the theological machinations of these reverend gentlemen, and certainly not I,
one unacquainted with the deep
mysteries of the Alpha and Omega.

Surely, dear Editor, you can find
more broad-minded matter to charm
your readers.

Sincerely,
A. MICK.

 

Regardless of whether Catholic
students at Dalhouse were oneseventh or six-sevenths of the faculty
the Editors feel any slur on their
religion would be not only incourteous but shameful. The writer may
be assured, however, that the Pine
Hill notes referred to were not intended as a reflection upon the Vatican.,

The popeship of Pine Hill is a traditional office, its origin now unkown, corresponding to the president
of a Students’ Council. The present
pope is a well-known Dal. athlete,
Charlie Anderson, who is subjected
to the usual good-natured abuse
which every student executive gets.

Pine Hill notes are intended largely for the interest of Pine Hillers,
just as Sheriff Hall and Med. Society
notes are meant chiefly for Hall
girls and Med students. References
in Pine Hill notes to the “pope” are
merely jibes at Anderson, for the

Se

ter several ages of scrapping, the
older gods were almost killed and
were finally imprisoned in the cave
of Tartarus. Atlas, one of Jupiter’s
cousins, was doomed to bear the
heavens on his shoulders, but his
brother, Prometheus, was spared because he had really been for Jupiter
all along, by Jove!

In the council of the gods that
succeeded, Jupiter was at the head
of the mob and had his two brothers
as strong-arm men—Neptune ruled
the sea and Pluto (or Hades) went
to the underworld.

Several of the lesser gods tried to
muscle in on Jupiter’s racket at
various ‘periods, but were taken for
a ride in the royal chariot and put
on the spot in Tartarus. This was
very discouraging to the other Radicals,

The origin of man was a question
which the Greeks did not settle as
easily as the Hebrews. Their’s was
a pagan philosophy. According to
the Greeks, there was no. original
pair. This led to complications.

One of the gods, Epimetheus, was
busy-in producing animals in wholesale quantities and bestowing on
them all the various gifts of
strength, courage, swiftnéss and
sagacity.

Prometheus was detailed to make
a man, so he mixed some earth and
water and madeone in the image of

eee iim uml meg ici ieee aaa
NT

————— ooo ——

i

benefit. of the Pine Hillers, and are
written with no thought whatever of
the Leader at Rome. As such, we
feel they are not “narrow-minded
and bigotrous rot” and shall continue to publish them but we ask
the above writer to read from them
only the meaning intended and not
to seek, lawyer-like, for other interpretations.—The Editors,

Editor Dalhousie Gazette:

“We want beer,” the Nova Scotia
Hotelmen are saying. “We need
beer” was the apparent belief of the
writer in “Comment” for November
22nd. Yet this thirsty ‘beer supporter” bemoans the inactivity of
all save the so-called “temperance
fiends”. Our friend, the “beer supporter’’, then gives in detail several
reasons why Nova Scotia should
take action to legalize the sale of
beer in hotels and public restau rants.

First he sees the great stimulus
to the tourist trade which the public
sale of beer would be. Certainly, he
proves to his own satisfaction,, the
tourist trade would be increased.
But, says our “beer supporter”,
“Nova Scotia is a holiday paradise”.
If Nova Scotia is a holiday paradise
the desired type of tourist will come
for the sake of Nova Scotia’s beauty.
If more tourists are induced to come
because they can get beer at their
hotels, so many tourists will be
turned away because they know beer
flows freely. Yes, thank heaven,
there are still many people in this
world who are heart and _ soul
against beer—“temperance fiends” if
you wish to call them so. If there
are temperance fiends in Digby, N.S.,
there will no doubt be temperance
fiends in other parts of Canada and
the United States who will not come
to Nova Scotia if the beer parlours
are legalized. Why should the
tourist who comes to Nova Scotia
for the natural beauty be turned
away in order to attract tourists
who want a drink of beer?

Secondly, we were told of the consolation and comfort it would be to
our hard-pressed government officials to know that a large sum
was pouring in from beer sales
profits to ease their financial difficulties. One side of the picture.
Pleasant? Certainly.

But let us look at the other side.
Ontario has permitted the sale of
beer in hotels and beverage rooms.
Mr. Erland Echlin, in “Maclean’s
Magazine”, says:

“During August and September
four times as many people were
killed on the streets of Toronto as
there were in the same period last
year. It has not been proved that
beer is responsible- for these in
creases, but this year there are
beverage rooms, last year there
were none,”

Where is the profit from the sale
of beer? A few dollars gained by
the city and eight people killed in
just one month, due to the free sale
of beer in beverage rooms.

Thirdly, our “beer supporter”
pointed out to us the “resultant
stimulus to business activity from
the sale and manufacture of beer.”
Certainly the beverage rooms would
stimulate the beer trade and a few
other industries such as fruit growing. But, our “beer supporter” says
in another part of his article, “Let
drinking be placed upon a respectable basis in full view of public
scrutiny. When this is done there

the gods, of upright stature so that!is no longer the incentive for a man
he could look at the stars and,to pollute himself with liquor.” Yet
breathe romantic sighs on appro-|the beverage room activity, he says,
priate occasions — but this was to| Will stimulate the farmer’s trade:
come later. However, Prometheus |Less beer will be drunk, but more

    

oo

How else can anyone account for the
growth in popularity
which is enjoyed by

Canada’s favourite

Blended Cigarette?

 

 

Winchester
CIGARETTES

Blended Right!

SAVE THE POKER HANDS

 

 

seem to stimulate business in* our
sister province.

Fourthly, our “beer supporter”
supports his cause, not only by lulling fears of the evil resulting from
the beer and wine licenses but by
pointing out the benefits of this
system in cleaning up “speak-easies”
and other filthy places. He would
make it possible for a man to drink
respectably. This seems to be a
contradictory statement, “to drink
beer respectably”. Yet apparently
that is what the beverage room
does. Making it a respectable pastime to drink beer is cited as one of
the benefits which the country derives from the beer parlour license,
What results from making the beer
parlour respectable? May we again
find our answer in Ontario? Mr.
Echlin reports a doctor as saying:

“This legislation is all wrong; a
decided step backward. . . .. Pushed
right in front of them, a lot of people will start drinking who never
thought of it before.”

In describing different. towns, Mr.
Echlin says: “I saw women, many

(Continued on Page Four)

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

   

of the Meds. He too had been a
Stude once, and he could see that the
Meds are .worked too hard. So he
spake unto the Kommittee from the

scale.

 

 

 

7. But the Latin Teecher in the
School of Med is not so kind. The
many promises that he once made
are still unfilled. He seems to have

found that Epimetheus had given all
the worthwhile gifts of the gods to
the animals. There was nothing for
man. So Prometheus went to the

[HALIFAX TAXI CO.
At sour B.7376,

    
  

  

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed
$1.25
Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
‘Called for and delivered.
Telephone Lorne 2323.

Lo f e 9¥y° @

| Cousins’ Limited
| Dry: Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
a “None better—anywhere”

 
 
     
             
    
        

 

  

  
  

Studes: “Yea, it shall ‘be as you
wished. Your Xam in Byo-Chem
shall be postponed until after your
Vakashun when you are more rested.” The Kommittee shouted for

.|Joy, and when the Studes heard the

G.A. McDONALD TOBACCONIST

Smokers’ Requisites of
Every Description.

    

A Complete Stock of CIGARS,
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO
and BRIAR PIPES

21 Spring Garden Road
HALIFAX.

eee

forgotten.

8. Rumors of these forgotten
promises come unto the ears of the
Soceyetee of Meds and they spake
their thoughts upon the Subject.
Only last year was it not the same
Prof who promised to postpone the

this notion of the definition is what
might be called a mythtake. If
Sun and took back fire for a gift to
| man. Not having the sagacity of
the animals, man took it as a toy
and has been getting burnt ever
since.
The new men irritated Jupiter so
much with their new toy that he
‘Xam in Pig Latin, and this was not |took it from them. But Prometheus
done. We must not allow such| stole it from Heaven and returned it
things to happen again, spake the|to man. Up to this time the world
older and wiser Meds. And so the|was only populated with men. Thus
Soceyety formed a Kommittee to go|it was a world of hard work, hard
unto the noble Prof, to remind him| drink and dirty stories—and they
of unforgotten promises. Justice | were happy.
‘must be done unto the Meds who are| Jupiter decided that they were
being driven more than slaves, and| having too much of a good time, so,
it is the Studes themselves who are|as a curse, he made a woman called
going to see Justice done. The no-| Pandora and sent her down among
ble Profs, who are wise as to the|them. How the race existed without

 

products will be used for its manufacture. Apparently our friend has
made a mistake in his reasoning.

Also, while these industries are
stimulated what happens to the
business of the grocer, and manufacturer, and farmer, producing the}
necessities of life rather than the
luxuries ?

Again let us consult Mr, Echlin:
“From my notes, sixty merchants
said they had noticed no difference
in any way, and fifty druggists
agreed with them; but both classes
qualified their remarks with ‘as yet’,
explaining that they understood that
the extra money spent for beer
must eventually lower either savings or amounts spent for merchandise. . . . But three-quarters of the
men with whom I talked... protested in one form or another,
‘What did they change the system
for?’ ”

B-6070

BIRKS.-
New arrivals in handbags for Milady are
arresting in style, material, and color.

Evening bag's, too
—timely gifts.

Henry Birks & Sons

DIAMOND MERCHANTS

 

such a woman were alive she would
have a most mytherable existence.

| ways of the world will be sure to|a woman before this is a mystery.
agree. But this is another story.

  

Halifax, N. S.
The free sale of beer does not

 

ee TP TR SRR RE 4 TT! | ER Te ne

~~
 

 

,

 

 

ed yearly to Canada’s most

standing athlete. To Miss Meagher
goes the honor of being second place

to Hal Webster, noted runner,

to her also go the further honors of
being the only woman athlete to re
receive votes for the Trophy as

as being the only Maritimer to be

mentioned. It will be recalled

she was a member of the Canadian
Team that competed in the Empire

Meet at London,
summer.

England

The following article on track and field sport is suggested

by Miss Meagher’s success:

Dalhousie, the University which in
the past year has boasted of such
students as William C. Ross, Leigh
Miller and Aileen Meagher, at the
present time has no active Track and
Field Team. This fact must be almost unbelievable to new students
coming to the college from the far
points of the Maritimes. At U. N.
B., Mt. A. and Acadian, Track is one
of the most popular sports and takes
its place almost on a par with Rugby, Basket-ball and Hockey.

In spite of the lack of interest,
material and finances, the few ardent
supporters of the sport at Dalhousie
this year are looking forward to a,
come-back. It will not be made in
one year. However if it takes five
years to accomplish we will in the
end be satisfied if the standards then
would only approach those of the
past. Twenty-five years ago William
C. Ross attended Dalhousie, and as
middle distance runner he was without equal. Even today after more
than a score of years, his record for
the half-mile run has never been
threatened.

Fifteen years later a stocky blond
sprinter came to Dalhousie almost
unknown. He didn’t know the
scientific points about the game but
he was a “natural.” In 1927 in the
Interfaculty sports he ran the hundred in ten seconds flat. For several
years he ruled as Maritime Sprint
Champion. He could not be beaten.

Leaving Dal. he went to that Dom
inion centre of Track and Field,
Hamilton, Ontario. The following
winter in U. S. A. and Canada he
earned the reputation as the “fastest
human” of the board track. We refer to one of Dalhousie’s most
famous sons, Leigh Miller.

Then more recently we have Aileen
Meagher, who this year was an outstanding member of Canada’s British
Empire Team. Two months ago
every paper in Canada was eagerly
scanned by sports enthusiasts to see
the results of her efforts. Today
Aileen is acknowledged throughout
the world as one of the best feminine sprinters that ever wore a spike
shoe.

Enough for the past; but what
have we this year that will help
send Track and Field up to its proper
level of popularity? Among the
Freshman class we see Ron Heisler,
a former Interscholastic half-mile
champion. Sports writers and critics
predict that in the near future the
twenty-five year old record held by
W. C. Rosss will be broken by the
flying feet of this seventeen year
old runner. Dalhousie expects a lot
from this youngster and it is to be
hoped that these expectations will be
justified. Incidentally a former team
mate of Heisler’s has also come to
college this year in the person of

- Dal Girl Sprinter Gets Hon Mention
Aileen Meagher, Halifax, Dalhousie Si

student, received high mention
when the Norton H. Crow Trophy,
was awarded. This trophy is award
 

out
and

well

that

 

this

season has shown remarkable speed
in the 220 and 440 and is one,of the
best men in the Maritimes.

It would seem that these two
newcomers along with Stewart, Lloy,
Simmonds, Kitiz, Ross and others
should form the basis of a Track
and Field Team that will bring to
Dalhousie the Intercollegiate Championship now held by Mount Allison.

Hockey Prospects
Look Brighter

Now that the boys have stowed
their football togs away for the
winter months, the chief item on the
sports program is hockey, and the
school is wondering how strong a
team Dal is capable of putting on
the ice this season. Although Coach
McCarthy, while refereeing the interfaculty play off between Law and
Medicine, was greatly astounded to
find so many men that could have
made the seniors look like novices,
yet we predict that such, won’t be
the case in hockey; for in Tiger
MacKasey, the hockey team have a
real energetic manager, who will always be ready to advance the interests of both his team, and the individual players on it. In order to
estimate the number, and the ability
of candidates for the team, several
pre-Xmas workouts will be held at
the Forum.

It is understood that the management are endeavouring to secure the
coaching services of either Frankie
Graham, well-known Wolverine star
or Ed. McNeil, former St. F. X. star
and member of the St. F. X. team
that toured Boston in 1927.

With the exception of Biscay Ellis
and Jack Grant all of last year’s
squad are back and strengthened by
such new comers as Charlie Stanfield
Dal should have one of the strongest
teams in years.

e
Co-ed Caricatures
(From the man’s point of view)
THE GOLD DIGGER

“Ch! It’s simply pouring, and I
forgot my rain coat. Is that your
car over there behind the Library?
I know you wouldn’t mind running
me over to the Hall....Yes, I'll bang
the door. Gee, I love driving in the
rain! Wouldn’t it be fun if we
drove out to Bedford!

“T’m sure I don’t know why I’m so
hungry — must be on account of
my skipping breakfast—and then
that long drive. Well, here we are
at the Cameo.

i
oe
——————_ ————————

a

“T'll have two fried egg sand-With small children, waiting near

wiches and a cup of coffee and some
apple pie, thank you.

“Did you know that ‘British
Agent’ is on at the Capitol this afternoon ?

“’d just love to skip Lab.”

 

  
     
      
   
     
   
       
       
     
      
      
        
     
     

of The Mutual Life

Office.

A Message To College Men

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a provision for the future, or contemplating the selling
of life insurance as a profession, you would do
well to consider the outstanding sixty-four record

of Canada. Communicate

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT REVIEW.

By TED CREASE.

With football behind us for another year our thoughts turn
to hockey and basketball. The prospects for the 1935 cage
quintette are unusually bright. Seven of last year’s titleholders are on deck and under a new and vastly improved system of coaching should be a better working outfit.

Sam Fairstein, generally conceded to be the cleverest playmaker in the league, has come out of retirement and is playing
a better game than ever. Ernie Richardson has reported after
a three year layoff and it is rumored that “Mandy” Mandelstan
plans to play again.

There are some promising newcomers to the squad including Innis McLeod of Mt. A. and Oscar Sevlin from over the
border.

Practices are held Tuesdays and Thursdays at noon under
supervision of Coaches Stirling and MacDonald. The squad
has already been reduced to twenty-five players with a further
cut in the offing. Enthusiasm is unusually high probably because the boys want to go to the Olympiic Games. What an
imagination!

Hockey promises another banner year. Goalie Vic Kyte,
defencemen Hal Connor and Captain Doug Bent, are forwards;
Jack Buckley, Ed. Cohn, Cappy Cook, Bob Stanfield and Hal
Flynn are all eager to don the blades again. ‘“Pat’’ Patton of
McGill‘s 1934 junior team is perhaps the most promising new
face. The one and only “Tiger’’ Mackasey will direct the managerial reins and so it looks like another City Intercollegiate
title for the Gold and Black.

There has been considerable discussion as to who will
coach football at Dal next year. Everyone from Red Payne to
President Stanley has been mooted as a possibility, but why?
Has the McCarthy system failed? Has Mac been given a fair
chance? In my humble opinion Coach McCarthy’s system is
not the best for a college team but he has not been given a
square deal in that interest was lacking, training disregarded,
and too many fingers in the pie. Added to these is the unprecedented list of injuries. Any arguments on the subject that

a, ae and concise and addressed to this column will be pubished.

The Badminton Club, one of the most progressive campus
organizations, celebrated its first victory of the season last week
by defeating New Glasgow in a closely contested tournament.

Softball is becoming quite the popular indoor sport these
days and if the pre-eseason games mean anything the title race
will be the best for some years.

Our recent all-star selections met with the usual storm of
criticisms and wisecracks but we can take it. - In the future our

policy will be to get the okay of “100%” Bauld on all star selections. Then we can’t go wrong.

The injury jinx still goes on. The basketball team will
feel the loss of Leo Green who suffered a severe dislocation of
the elbow at a recent practice. It is reported that Leo will be
out for the season. To top it off Miit Musgrave, star running
guard of last year’s five, sprained his ankle in a work-out on
Monday. Although the sprain is serious it is expected that Mit
will be back in time for the league opening. If not, Dal’s title
hopes will be seriously jeojardized. Who will be next?

Dal Badminton Players
Take Win Over New Glasgow

Thurlow and Murray Star For Dal.

 

By virtue of a two match lead in the singles, Dal players
won their opening match of the season at Studley Gymnasium,
over a New Glasgow outfit. Each team took six of the twelve
matches in doubles. Art Thurlow and Eric Murray figured
prominently in Dal’s victory as each took part in three of the
wins—each taking a set in singles and played in two winning
doubles set.

Later in the season the Dal players will participate in the

City Badminton League and possibly one or two Intercollegiate
Matches will be arranged.

Student’s Forum-
(Continued from Page Three)

Singles: Art Thurlow D. defeated
R. MacDonald N., G. 15-6; 15-4; Eric
Murray D. defeated C. Fraser N. G.,
15-9, 115-2; R. Murphy D. defeated
ed S. Fraser N. G., 15-4, 15-11; G.
Holland D. defeated H. MacDonald
N. G., 15-7, 15-11; G. Forbes N. G.
defeated W. Sutherland D 15-13, 152; H. Fraser N. G. defeated R. MacLellan D. 18-13, 11-15, 15-8.

Doubles: A. Thurlow and E. Murray, D. defeated C .Fraser and G.
Forbes, N. G., 15-12, 10-15, 15-11.

R. McDonald and S. Fraser, N. G.,
defeated W. Murphy and D. Ross, D.
15-10, 17-18, 15-10.

G. Holland and W. Sutherland lost
to H. McDonald and D. Johnson, N.
,.1-15, 1-15.

Don Bauld and Don Saunderson, D.
defeated B. Evans and D. Fraser,
N. G., 6-15, 15-2, 15-12.

Leo Simmonds and Reg Evans D.

beverage rooms while their farmer
husbands crowded the taverns.” And
what happens when these awaited
husbands do come out of the beverage rooms?”

Are we as students of Dalhousie
to support through our campus
paper this project of beer parlours,
brought forth by money grabbing
capitalists?- Perhaps our tourist
trade does need a stimulus, possibly
our taxes should be lessened; a
stimulus to business would be very
welcome in these days. But these
things can and will be done without
degrading the people of our province
in the beer trade.

Our “beer supporter” asks, “Is
Nova Scotia going to lag behind the

with our nearest Branch Manager or our Home

| Mutual Life Assurance Company
| OF CANADA

HOME OFFICE — WATERLOO, ONTARIO
Established 1869

other provinces of Canada because
a body of temperance fiends, cireumscribed by their own personal
antipathies to anything smelling or
sounding like alcohol don’t want
it?” May we alter the question and
ask, “Is Nova Scotia going to have
the courage to hold her present position, and are the Nova Scotian
people and the Nova Scotian government willing to sacrifice a few
material gains in an attempt to
keep their province and their homes
‘free from drunken lawlessness?

TEMPERANCE FIEND.

defated W. Goodman and R. Larsen,
N. G., 15-9, 15-3. ,

Bob McLellan and Bill Kelley, D.
defeated L. Williams and O. Murray,
N. G., 15-11, 6-15, 15-5. °

Art Thurlow and Don Saunderson
D, defeated W. Goodman and H.
Evans, N. G., 8-15, 15-8, 15-2.

W. Murphy and R. McLellan, D.
lost to G. Forbes and C. Fraser, N.
G.; 5-18, 8-15, 2-15.

R. Larsen and R. Macdonald, N.
G., defeated Eric Murray and Gib
Holland, 15-11, 15-9.

—— eee
NN ™”™™™™™ = == oes! :>err __

CASINO

Thursday and Friday

MARIE
GALANTE

with
SPENCER TRACY
KETTI GALLIAN

—————

Extra Friday

Regular Show plus
Gold! Diggers of 1933.

 

 

November 29, 1934

 

TO-MORROW

COLLEGE
RHYTHM

with
JOE PENNER
LARRY ROSS

JACK OAKIE
HELEN MACK

    

 

Interfaculty Softball |Dal Pucksters

 

ALL STARS 21 — KING’S 9

To Tour Boston

Tiger MacKasey, manager of the

King’s College players went down| Dal. Hockey team, leaves this week
to defeat at the hand of an All-Star|for Boston to complete plans for a
team led by Harry Gaum. A first} hockey tour during the Xmas holi
inning lead of eight runs for the | days.
winners was never overcome—while | exclusively Dal

While the team won’t be an
team, being one

Joe Willett, King’s, was touched for picked from players who starred in
eight more before the game ended.|the City Intercollegiate League for

Gaum was able to keep the hits of
the losers well scattered—limiting
them to nine runs.

All-Stars: R. Payne, c; H.Gaum
p; G. Robertson, 1b; E. Cragg, 2b;
White 3b; J. Crosby, ss; Cragg, lf;
McManus, rf;

King’s: J. Graven, c; J. Willett, p;
I. Orlando, 1b; C. Hutchings, 2b;
C. Pratt, 3b; T.. White, ss; S. Wetmore, lf; G. Smith rf.

DENTISTRY 6 — LAW 5

The lawyers presented better opposition to the Dentists than that of
their first game with the Meds. last
week. It was not the loose and weak
team the Meds. defeated but a
strong ,almost errorless team that
Dents were up against. An extra
spurt in the seventh saved the Dents
from a tie score which was their lot
in their opening game with Arts
and Sc.

Dentistry found Ross for a threerun start in the first inning, while
Law tied it up in the first and second and held a one run advantage
until the fifth. “Big Don”, who had
been holding the batters down since
the first frame, was again found by
the Dents as they collected two runs.
In their half of the fifth Law added
one more to tie the score at five all.
The deciding run came in the seventh
for Dentistry while Ken Cougle
managed to hold the Law batters in
place in the last half of the seventh.

Dents: P. Goldman, 3b; K. Cougle,
p; P. Bloan, 1b; L. Brown, 2b; B.
Lipschitz, c; A. Cohen, ss; W. Valerie
lf; P. Stein, cf; H. Heflich, rf.

Law: J. Buckley, c; D. Ross, p; J.
Godwin, 1b; M. Hinchey, 2b; C. Manniing, ss; F. Bentley, 3b; T. Thurlow, rf; S. Margolian, lf; I. Pink ef.

feated W. Goodman and R. Larsen,
N. G., 15-7, 8-15, 15-3.

H. Fraser and B. Fraser, N. G.,
defeated Don Bauld and Bill Kelley
D., 12-15, 15-2, 15-8.

H. McDonald and H. Johnson, N.
G., defeated R. Evans and Leo Simmonds, D., 15-9, 15-7.

OQ. Murray and H. McDonald, N.
G., defeated R. Evans and Leo Simmonds, D., 15-3; 2-15, 15-8.

EK. Murray and Holland, D., defeated R. Larsen and R. MacDonald,
15-5, 15-5.

Dal and King’s

(Continued from Page One)

 

year. Bruce Fergusson, Chairman,
(Dalhousie); Margaret Leonard
(Acadia; Munson (Mount Allison);
and Allan Findlay (King’s) formed
the committee which drew up and
presented the resolution.

 

 

MacLeod, Balcom
Limited

DRUGGIST

Halifax and Bedford

Leo Simmonds and R. Evans de
 

 

the past several seasons, yet it is of
interest to Dal. students because
such well-known Dal. players as
Jack Buckley, Capt. Cooke, Vic.
Ryte and Jerry Coleman are mentioned as prospective players on the
team.

Basketball Squad

Suffers Reduction

Mr. W. E. Stirling, newly appointed coach of the Dal Tigers, Maritime Senior Basketball Champions,
assisted by Professor Jim McDonald
have limited their squad to twentyfive players, chosen from players in
the University House League. With
the House League over regular
practices are being held twice a week
and will be resumed after Xmas.
Bob MacLellan and Ian McKeigan,
both of Halifax, will be in charge
of the managing of the team.

The present squad ,although subject to further reduction, is as follows:

Don Bauld, Ted and Doug Crease,
Abe Mackles, Ernie Richardson,
Doug Lyall, Sullivan, Geo. Murphy,
Edgar Stewart, Simon, Bill Gladstone, Leo Green, Sam. Fairstein,
Jim Crosby, Chuck Lorway, Milt
Musgrave, Cy Miller, Oscar Serlin,
Ben DuBilier, Maurice Dean, Leo
Simmonds, Bill Davis, Don Rose,
Innes. McLeod, Abe Mandelstan.

Pine Hill 35—Freshmen 6

Last year’s Champions had little
or no trouble in their opening game
as they easily won from the Frosh.
A fifteen-run first inning gave the
winners an early lead. Twenty more
were added to this while Gordon,
with only seven hits against him,
backed by an almost air-tight team,
limited the Frosh to half-dozen tallies.

Pine Hill:.MacKenzie, c; Gordon,
p; R. Milner, 1b; D. McLeod, 2b; K.
MacQuarrie, 3b; D. Darrach, ss; Mac
Donald, lf.; H. Gaum, rf.

Frosh: D. Lyall, c; R. Heisler, p;
J. Graham, 1b; H. Renouf, 2b; R.
Hurst, 3b; B. Crosby, ss; B. Pitchey,
rf; E. Cragg, lf; H. Reardon, ef.

Umpires: G. Robertson and H.
H. Payne.

Halifax

 

 

Transfer

~~ B. 7138

  
 
 

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

Haircuts 25e.

BERT BOWLBY
445 BARRINGTON STREET
(Over Buckley’s)
FROM THE

WINNERS "20x =

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you

play the game with the best
that’s in you.

Cragg Bros. Co.

Hard ee
ardware porting Goods.
HALIFAX, N.S.

    
     
      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
