        

Official Student Publication
ie Ae ccce cho Y. HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 7, 1935
hat is Wrong With Dal?” (Students Turn Out Well

swered by Many Students To Elect New Councillors

at Dalhousie University

  
 
  

 

Munro Day Preparations
Hint Best Program Yet

 

io - . ; ; —_—_—_—___..

eae. ee . ; 2 ‘“ ; Pl . ‘ :

< es re ts oe cae ee ot ee Se on 7 ee A larger vote being polled than last year, widespread inter- yet sn thet oe ae ae bees ae an
hue, T ron ? ; oe 3 ; ; é 7 C a
Were ae 8 of the Arts Building, under the auspices of Sodales. est has been centred on the university elections held on|tee has revealed the schedule of events, and from the look of

oom Tuesday. Many very close wins and a few large majorities

it—well, it looks as though it’s going to be something to rem-':
ember. And don’t forget that it’s all in remembrance of Dalhousie’s benefactor, George Munro, who set the old place on its,
feet when it was too wobbly to get along on its own. He poured
money into the university coffers solely that a fine institution
‘might pull through to act as the lighthouse of education for his

were recorded with the result that most students seem to be
quite pleased with what is the Council of Students for 1935-36.

Only four former members of the Council are again to be
found on the body. The results were, for the Council

‘The rag was chewed to pulp and to no end. Everything that
everybody knows and has talked about for years was repeated
‘by the speakers with the impression that they were letting
___ their fellow students in on big secrets. University Store chitie ot ae chat was expatiated on until 1.25 p.m., featured by a long tirade

i

+. 4"

 

; "from Mr. Fisher, who deplored the fraternity system, railed at | Medicine—R. W. Maclellan, 81; Har-| The votes on the D. A. A. C. were
a the electoral system and wondered a bit about “college spirit”. old Taylor, 77; Carl Trask, 70;|naturally large: Results; native province. a
po a eal Gerald LeBrun, 43 Prosident--E. B. B: ‘Il 209- Rob-| Ihe new trophy for competitio
. : ms resident—E. B. Barnhill, 202; Rob- | } r competition
7% Mr. Fisher, a dual fraternity man, . Law—Charles Manning, 32: George ert FE MacLellan 159. s . sn Ee ain : | between Studley and Forrest Buildadmitted the individual gained by || THE WILLIAM INGLIS MORSE Phomson, 28. pero” eta a | GLEE CLUB READY ing students, the Felt Munro Day
‘belonging to a fraternity, but as- ENGLISH ESSAY PRIZE Dentisiry—Rilis Kollender. 22: Sam oe yy Henry Ross, 242; Under the capable direction of || shield, will be the article for. v ra
ee : . : ate ‘ - “satay y are ae Ted Crease, 106. '! Carl Bet 6 ‘ocident : fhe - eee eee ett
ae . serted that these groups were to The following information from Newman, 17. s i Ca : er 1} Carl sethune, Preside nt of the }much strife will be made in three
oe | the University office should be of |) cnc. +96 Ruth Sumner, 95: Mary Bae ae — be Mercer,|}| Alumni, rapid progress is being || athletic events—softball, basketball, | f 3 x : ; ror a “Lk ag A9 q . Aa ” AV rocanta— : 4 . - :
A DR. STANLEY TO SPEAK especial interest to Dalhousie un- Ledingham, 87; George Murphy, 175; Maurice Dean, 149. ) mad on the Munro Day presenta | and tug-of-war. Here’s the “pros
[aes Under the auspicies of Sodales dergraduates: 101; Robert Stanfield, 97. oe tion of the Glee Club, the musical || gramme:
Dr Stan! he Series tacends This prize, of the value of || (37 Isabel Fraser, 103; Fran| The Glee Club Executive is again|]| Comedy “Anita”. Starred in the |}, | Soft!
; ss ’37—Isabel Fraser, 103; Fra +e oe Ness ; : 3.00 p.m.—Softball: Studlev Tox
- ; er re: ES s $100.00, will be awarded for the ; ' a verv strone. Results: || show are Charlie Anderson, Fran pan onthail: Studley vs, Forae discussion with students on the ; Gardner, 101; Gordon Thompson,|VETy Strong. he: . 1 eee eos rest Building
ae fee : ; best essay on a subject chosen by eos : sae Geta oa |} Gardner, Ruth Crandall, Chuck =
subject “What is wrong with Dal- Ft a 116; Henry Ross, 91. President—Rudd Hattie, 288; Earle |  aewan Thavia Poauer Baek a) 25 pam.— Basketball: © Staal
_— ; : : n€ GOnor. : 2g : 4 x 9. sorway, arlie fraser, Hutn S! Oe MAES SCD AL s  UEE 'S.
> = “housie?” The discussion will be : ' Class ’88 — David Maclellan, 100;| Fraser, 122. : Se Pat Sees Borrosk: Rlds
ak asa The subject for the current ~ > - cae | ore ing, Warren Beazley, Ray Wallac orrest Bldg.
vee held in Room 3, Arts Building, : Poet Ba ae Fred Barton, 94. Vice-President—Fran Drummie, 259 Rychen? Mini My : D fr. {F Badm}
? as eee ry s é tor } ; be uvelyn Hmbree, Mare Urummie, |) o.45 p.m.— badminton: Men’s single
r Tuesday, at noon. | Ptipdeanla?, iis a ub-title tate Freshman Representative — John Marg. Kerr, 142. / George Mardy. a ne i as 4 00 ; : - Velleybs tl ee dite 5 a;
si ] paz + € ce fe ‘ se &> Fisher 137: Milton Mussrave 72 General Manager--John Dobson. 279: sy BS : t ee >» Ahi il : : r i Pe 3 ill. Dil€ 5 Wail, rac! \ VS.
Oe gested by Dr. Morse, reads: a § ; . Ne i Musgra . (3. Sine Gacid. Ye |] —the cream of Dalhousie’s abun- Students.
t , “p : Part 2. ... |} Commeree—Ru attie, 130; Mau- ; fay WOuld, +10. < Renita tale
roe blame for the present state of ri Poets are trying to bring ee ae As , 8 AU ns Sea tae ea og ea dant dramatic talent. 4,20 p.m.—Wrestling: One bout.
f :. . . . : : . c 7. MLE ap © = ALIAS SVs ~ : . : : on = . : 5
fairs. The electoral system is bad, poetry back into the life of the : eat 1 a Fis of 4 2 ; SE MAA ae cel Specialty numbers will be done || 4.26 p.m—Basketball: Alumni vs
, : ‘ an by bringing the life Engineering—Lou Petrie, 99; Elme1 171; Leo Landreville, 131; Ernest | ae eiqe :
; ’ says John. We vote for candidates common man DY iMgines ie Ball 83 7 Higgins 107 \ by Jean I ritzgerald, Audrey Co-Eds.
Pia of other classes and societies of of the common man back into oe eres Balcom, Lou Morrison, Petie }| 4.4¢ p.m.—Tug-of-War: Studley vs
a . ” ich: 1.3 : = ; Pe ere : Ss:
Fe whom we know absolutely nothing.|] Poetry.”—Michael Roberts. Murphy, Erin Russell, and others. Forrest Bldg.

 

   
 
 
      
   
   
   

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'.. The Council President is chosen by This competition is open to un- Bill Stevens’: part in the show
newly-elected members of the Coun- dergraduates, registered in Dal- SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT calls for an exhibition of his

~

as

f é
Past
t® ie, ~

   

 

#

tae
ee

 

Le tin from the afflicted students be
}
open ballot system. However, Mr.|be darned poor ditch-diggers”. the campus. . her arms" budget has been sub- /that should be shelved. and have signified their desire by the
E Rand doubted if the president could] pomard V. Andrews, the voice of But what if all these things stantially increased for this year. offer of a $50 guarantee. The only
| be as well chosen at Dalhousie un- Ravituan dian’ contrasted this Uni-| "ee said, they are matters which | All of which goes to show that : objection insofar as Dal is concerned
= the = bees system as under| ity with ba aad tiatakas he i the light of Anete own ame oe rng not my . na- Boilermakers P lan is the fact that the tentative date
she present system. stances mean nothing more than ional problem but one which can is March 30, only three wee :
- eee ree ee one Lear Book Sek ink eute ios wi little differences which are of no | only be dealt with by international Greater Banquet exams. Nemethels the aan
Z : | eo , een Shs ing just to be together, and to feel et Pes peo PORE STON, Bent on outdoing the Medicos, the e es and Track are discusend of it is worked by avai ie Bee ee ee ee - his personal opinion. Every stu- = So ee dos oe pee me
L ee before publication to find who is Z ot ht Deathesipto Lxewie dent on the campus has his own Last month J. P. Morgan sold | Do and BSE PEP s SE RS Out tak se re rae see eae yee
a ing to buy, and then havin <n ee ee rears, Sane, personal opinion—but what of it? $1,500,000 worth of paintings. The | the heat in H i oopanaat tha ogh sllewinu. | Se) eee ey
i= ‘university nincing the uate on erry. week. That is no reason why a public week before last he offered for |@nd rang = bell” ate going on Sat: Peat app STGeK aipet speuy May Hey
Pt eitoners bills so that there is no| Chatlie Bentley put forth a sug- howdentete!shoald --take these sale part of his land on Long vata evening at the Nova Scotian ol ginen vie e rag? advertisiw digging into pockets. Everybod gestion that another meeting sim- things and present them in such pend Sound. Lael week, he “an to se se ne SEE Id be i seit ere ams
ge. Fane thot Kay th ee . ilar to the Saturday one be held,| . , a eth 1 nounced that his collection of 900 |t0 go down in Dalhousie’s annals as |W°U!d be im accordance with the feelPUM which tends to o community spirit| Wi President Stanley present to! twisted picture of internal life at | Miniatures (estimated value $700,- |*he banquet of all time. ech hak: ed ara etloe nL,
ee - —second to none : explain to the students what he the University, which is a matter 000) would be auctioned off this pou Bent, president of the Engin- TPES oPtereolestate ceRpeHtons.
ey, : on . Houwht about the leGiatey of the eye summer. The only explanation |€¢"s, will be in the chair as long as|-——————————_———————_—.
_-——s Mr. ~‘Rand felt that the panning for the University and no one else. at has b ff he can stay away from th h |
done by the Gazette was uncalled for students and what he would consider It is submitted that these events See ae ae — at = der th ce eee ee bis
and distinctly “not the thing”. It a good course to take for the correc- will have a retroactive effect on Morgan is seeking to get his es- se aes ae: ae: 15 “understiod M OolvbG
e led to d . 13 {tion of it, d : tate in more manageable form. that those attending plan to take in de . 003
a, Be eplorable conditions. David a the. University, an unwarranted the supper dance ell supication for the folowing
_ Maclellan, Gazette news editor, ex- Ernent Sechirayon spoke briefly effect, just because the newspa- eae Rae a ee managerships for the year 1935-36
pressed wholehearted agreement and |°" Mr. Paes suggestion, and the) 1475 seek and print under the Testifying before the Senate LIFE OFFICERS PICKED are Tequested to be in the hands of
said that it was a condition which meeting wee then adjourned. Charlie heading of news things which are | Munitions Committee last week Life officers of Class ’35 were the undersigned by 12 noon, Tueshe hoped would be remedied. Mr. Manning, President of Sodales, was! 14+ news at all. Eugene G. Grace, president of the | chosen on Thursday last at a day, March ‘12:
oe 3 fisher in the course of his speech inthe chair. Whether the fault lies in the | Bethlehem Steel Corporation, could meeting of the graduating stu- Footbalt, basketball, hockey,
counselled that the Gazette should way these things are reported or | not remember whether in the war | dents in Room 3 of the Arts Ses, ping-pong, tennis, box~ . °
pan for all it is worth, Final Bennett Shield Debate because the editor put those little | years his salary was $10,000 or Building. The Junior-Senior dance |*"®? wrestling, soccer and track.

ar a

cil, under the influence of fraternity
directors. An open ballot should be

the method of election, if a fair elec
tion is wanted.

iy ea There is no communing of the stu= dents, Premier Bennett, known to

‘some of us, and who was a visitor

here last December, went to the

common room in the Arts Building

with the hope of seeing a large

number of students gathered talking over their cares. He found
but two students, Mr. Fisher and an
unnamed individual.

Dining halls —a residence — anything to kill the fraternity octopus.
Seven times the college orator referred in scathing terms to “this
damnably bigoted tradition” of Dalhousie, which is holding us back
from great things.

Dalhousie is not a large university, and it is not a small university.
It is just half-way between. But it
has a plethora of organizations only

to be found in large universities, and

housie College, who are in their
third or fourth year in Arts.
Essays must be handed in not
later than April 12, 1935.
For further particulars,
dents interested should apply to
Professor C. L. Bennet.

stu
pass each other on the campus
countless times a day throughout
the year without even getting to the
“Hello” stage, said Miss Zwicker,
pouring scorn on this ghastly sense
of reserve which restrains us from
becoming acquainted with our fellow students.

Wilkie Grant, fresh from four
years at St. F. X., stated that here
you can’t be on speaking terms with
a person unless you have known
him for ten years—although at the
Law School it is slightly better.
Down there you may speak after six
months. He contrasted the welcome
given new students at St. F. X. with

 

Three times within six weeks
one of the local newspapers has
blazed forth to the public in large
print a gross misrepresentation of
affairs at Dalhousie.

About a month or so ago the students in Medical School and the
faculty gathered together at a
meeting for the mutual interest
of the student body. The next day
a lecal paper came forth with
headlines which could not but
make the public believe that Dal
students had “revolted”—a result
which proved detrimental to everyone.

Last week the “Mail” came
forth with the statement that a
Dalhousie student had said in effect that the Dalhousie football
team was composed of men who
not “good sports”.

Monday of this week the “Mail”
devoted almost an entire page

“And a little child shall lead
them” is now a practical term. A
week or so ago the King of Siam
abdicated. _ Now the cabinet has
offered the crown to the elevenyear-old prince next in line. The
child’s mother has no objection,
so it looks like Siam is the latest
country to have a child king.

 

Francis Hackett, the author of
“Henry VIII’, has just finished
another brilliant biography. This
time it is “Francis the First’, the
first of Renaissance Frenchmen.
If the author is at all reflected by
his writings, the book most certainly presents another phase of
Hackett’s character.

 

It would seem that political
forces make it impossible not only
for a country not to disarm, but
these forces are so strong as to

high-class wares. A large chorus
is spending a great deal of time
girding itself for the fatal day,
Thursday, March 14,

Everything points to another
great Glee Club Show, to be remembered along with the “Ghost
Train”, the “Mikada”, and “Marion’s Marrying Me’”’.

 

 

Med. Banquet Successful

After being dormant for two
‘years, the Medical Society banquet
'was held on Saturday evening in the
Lord Nelson Hotel grill room, with
|President Eldon Eagles in the chair.
| Speeches, stories, and pick-us-ups
| were enjoyable features of the affair, which was attended by about
‘seventy-five students and professors.
| Fred Wigmore requested the gentlemen to charge their glasses in a
toast to the profession, which was
replied to by Dr. Kenneth Mac|Kenzie. Bob Dove gave the toast to

7.00 p.m.—Intermission.

7.30 p.m.—Call to Order: Chairman:

7.31 p.m.—President of University. 3

7.387 p.m.—Member of the Board of
Governors. aes

.42 p.m.—President of the D.A.A.C, ~

.46 p.m.—Introduction of the New
Council of Students. |

7.52 p.m.—Introduction of President
of New Council. 3

7.53 p.m.—Announcement
colm Honour Award.

7.54 p.m.—Presentation
Day Shield.

7.55 p.m.—President of the Counci}
of Students.

8.00 p.m.—Piano Interlude.

8.15 p.m.—Living Statuary.

8.30 p.m.—Glee Club Show: “Anita”,

10.00 p.m.—Dancing.

12.30 p.m.—Finale.

|
ie p.m.—Tea Dance.

7
(7

of Mal
 

of Munro —

SWIMMING AND TRACK TEAMS
TO U.N. B.

it is beyond Gitta to keep ae ae aes yi Dal Ey FS: a ae al at a eee make it impossible for a power ‘the School, the response being made| Although no definite plans have
all going successfully, he said. gard to Miss Zwicker’s remarks} /"°S ‘iat traternmies are me 'S | not to be continually increasing py pr. Ralph Smith. Fraser Nichol-| been made, there is a possibility that

- Roger Rand opened the discussion
with a contrast of conditions here

' and at Acadia. The Axemen are not
_ bothered by fraternities. The Coun
eil is chosen in a similar manner,

_ but its president is selected on the

Miss Daisy Zwicker took the floor
shamefully demanding two years of

honouring them with a Bache
 

LS

about Latin, he explained that the
University had to make the subject
compulsory in order that the instructors might have classes to
teach, as they would otherwise be
forced to ditch-diggin’—‘“‘and they’d

 

Concluding the Bennett Shield
series of inter-class debates, Flo
Keniston and Bernard Andrews,
seniors will meet Fran Drummie
and Sandy MacPherson, juniors,
on Saturday noon in Reom 3 of
the Arts Building.

   

    

fault in Dalhousie. As a matter
of fact the question of fraternities
was merely a side remark. The
meeting was called for the purpose of discussing a possible means
of arousing student interest on

changes in the reports which misconstrued the whole thing is not
known. But in any case the thing
is most unfair to the students, the
University and -professors and ‘is
unethical on the part of the newspapers.

     

her armaments. A typical example
is seen in the fact that Great
Britain finds herself forced to increase her arms budget. Probably
no country in the world has striven so hard for disarmament, yet

 

$12,000 a year annually.

The slip in memory was most
natural, for in 1917 the corporation paid him a small bonus of
$1,575,000, and in 1918 another of
$1,386,000 besides
salary.

the regular

       

son toasted the graduates, on behalf
of whom Fred Whitehead replied.
Several members of the faculty
spoke briefly, and everyone seems to
have left with the impression that
the banquet is not an institution

 

 

was discussed, along with other

matters of immediate concern.
The officers are:

Life Pres.—Milton C, Musgrave.

Life Vice-Prés._Jean. K. Bere.

Life Se¢retary—Edy the Nelson:

Life Treasurer—Harold Johnson.

     

Dalhousie’s. Swimming Team, present City Champions, will travel to
Fredericton to take part in an exhibition meet with U.N.B. The New
Brunswick college is anxious to meet
Dalhousie in their own college tank

Applications -will also be received
up to the aforementioned time. for
the assistant-managerships of football, basketball ‘and hockey. —

Ri W:, Mae AN,! «:
; Secreary) ‘DIAVA C+
158 South St.,

Halifax.

 

  

  
     

    
   
  

) tte

aieaniteak 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”’

 

EDITORIAL STAFF

a Editors
oo eas B. 5827
oe eee Sie
Business Manager Assistant

; ARTHUR MEAGHER
5 Peg pomaes be

A
COUNCIL REFORM

ral speakers at Saturday’s “What is wrong with
Daihsavie 7 aati stressed need of changes in the present
Students’ Council system and, reviewing the efforts of the past
years, it seems that is so. But even if everyone is agreed that
the Council must be renovated, the difficulty will be to persuade
everyone where and to what extent its constitution must be
amended.

First of all, dead wood should be chopped away. The task
of the Freshmen Representative should be redrawn, so as to
embody the changes instituted recently and to throw out the
_Jong-disregarded rule that Freshmen representatives must be
graduating students intending to return to Studley. The quali
- fication that the councillor be graduating is wholly unnecessary
- while that insisting upon a Studley man seems unfavourable to
Science students.
OT oho matters as to representation should be discussed. On
the grounds of proportional representation, Medicine, with its
large body of students, might fairly demand another representative and it could be argued that Dentistry should be absorbed
by Medicine. On the same basis, further changes could be
made regarding the Commerce and Engineering men. At present, every engineer and commerce man has really two representing him on the Council, one from his own Society and another
for his particular class. If he thus has two votes for nomination, because he belongs to a society interested in a particular
study, but still considered a part of the faculty of Arts and
Science, logic suggests that students in advanced English, History, or Chemistry should have an equal right to form a society
and get Council representation. It would follow that the seats
for Commerce and Engineering representatives should be
abolished, or those students should be made ineligible to vote to
nominate candidates for the various Arts and Science classes.
A change favoured by sport followers concerns the Permanent Secretary-Treasurer, whose salary, it is alleged, could be put
» better use on the budget of any of Dal’s major or minor

 
   
  
  
 
 

j
“3

sporting activities. During the last two years this feeling has
a y anting Be neither Council has been willing to face it.

oy

ae
hes ch
* ’ ,

A sug
stion for the office is that it be made a scholarship available
for two Commerce students, their books to be audited regularly
as are those of the University store. The total salary of these
- men would probably be less than the present one but it seems
likely the Commerce Department has more than two men willing and capable to hold the job.

on

 

DEMOCRACY

“QO Captain! my Captain! our fearful trip is done,
The ship has weather’d every rack, the prize we
sought is won.”

It is with these words that every government leader starts
his electoral campaign—the “captain” at such times, Is the mob
and the thought to be developed is that the present voyage being over, it is essential he be returned to power: otherwise on

the next trip, and at election time there is always one In the
offing, the ship will surely go down with all hands and never
be heard of again. It is remarkable how often the politician
refers to the analogy of the nation and the ship—perhaps that

accounts for the skill with which he uses the seaman’s language
to paint the scene, picturing the ship, with his party at the
ropes, struggling through every storm, guided, with his hand at
the helm, past every treacherous reef and finally arriving home
laden with a cargo of wealth for the people.

The fact that a nation is hardly likely to sink with all
hands, or that it can never be washed away by storms 1s a matter of no importance with the politician. To him it is an excellent way to excite the public and he knows that a public,
unexcited by him, is a public that will be excited by his opponent. To the one who arouses the most hysteria belongs the
prize, office and power.

Such is democracy, the fooling of the people by some people
for some people. When an analogy such as the ship of state
and countless others can be used to defraud the public out of
their pottage, one wonders if they should have it in the first
place. Graft, inefficiency and the spending of public funds to

enrich the faithful are the natural results of the present system—these the public get in return for the circus performances
of parliaments and elections and the opportunity to see their
political leaders clown in public.

In Halifax’ this week, the Assembly of Nova Scotia was
convened with all the glitter of the “Big Top”; soldiers, sailors,
uniforms, brass hats, yards of gold braid, were all brought

‘ within the view of the common eye by the motion picture, all
to entertain the public and to let the people know “their” representatives were seeking “their” welfare. And all this was done
at considerable expense while such problems as stagnant business, hungry and heatless bodies, and rotten slum dwellings are
pushed into the background. It is a wonder that some enter_ prising interest has not bought the right to have Parliament at
some theatre where tickets could be sold and the show, com_ plete with barker, spotlight and band, could be witnessed in all
_ its style and elegance. _
But what to do about it when the mob, long used to being

4 oA _ told by those in the background who are never out of power,

that it is a “people’s government”, will jealously guard what

- e they hav e? The security of the ballot is more to them than the

ns as to what a scientific government could give them
application of business practices over a period of time.

 

W. A. REID |sist intervention.

 

he,

ITALY, ETHIOPIA AND
IMPERIALISM.

An Associated Press despatch tells
that another contingent of Mussolini’s hand-picked troops have left
Italy for Ethiopia, and then again
one hears that this same country has
made frantic appeals to the assembly of nations at Geneva to reThe bewildered
layman asks what it all means. Why
should Mussolini bother with some
unruly tribesmen from a _ country
whose very name is strange to us?
Mussolini may say he must guarantee the prestige and integrity of his
country, but it is just another case
of Imperialism. He has evaded it
as all the all the nations did in the
past and as Japan is now doing in
Manchuria.

But why be Imperialistic with
such a country? Ethiopia is a territory about the size of the state of
Texas, situated in the North Eastern corner of Africa. It is a country of vast resources. Despite the
fact that it is near the equator, its
elevation makes possible the growing of tobacco and many of the
crops that are found in the American south. Minerals are to be found
in abundance awaiting transportation development. Oil has likewise
been discovered and tested by the
Standard Oil Company, who are
waiting for more accessible methods
of transport.

Ethiopia is better known to the
world as Abyssinia. — It is ruled today by an Emperor and is the only
absolute monarchy left in a changing world. Undoubtedly, under the
influence of the Emperor Haile
Selassie, Ethiopia is gradually
emerging from an absolute monarchy to the status of Siam, which
now has a constitutional monarchy.
He has seen to it that the sons of
the Ethiopian nobility receive their
education abroad, later to return
home and accept his executive offices. But the twenty million “polygot Abyssinians”, who are the people
of Ethiopia, live as they did almost
two thousand years ago. They are
satisfied to do little more than engage themselves in a desultory form
of farming to keep their families
from starving. They are split into
tribes and the will of the strongest
holds. Addis Ababa is the capital
city and the only one in Ethiopia.
There is a foreign colony and a few
offices for the Emperor situated
there. Ethiopia was one of the
first countries to adopt Christianity.
Shortly after the death of Christ,
St. Mark took flight from Egypt
and converted the people to the
south. Since then this territory and
Egypt have steadfastly believed in
the tenets of the Coptic Christian
faith. Up to the rise of the church
at Rome all the world adhered to
this type of Christianity. These two
countries are the only ones today
that are adherents to this coptic
faith.

As was said earlier, Europe is
interested primarily in Ethiopia because of the vast resources of potential wealth. But each country
has some specific reason for intervention. Italy has two colonies on
either side of Ethiopia and it would
be of great benefit to her to have a
railway running across this territory
to connect the two, Eritrea and Italian Somaliland Undoubtedly this is
what exists in Mussolini’s mind.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COMMENT, LAUGHTER

   
 

The courtroom was crowded. The
air was stifling, but the spectators
had no thought for it as they tensely listened to the evidence as it was
given, unconscious of their own staring eyes and gaping mouths.

The defendant sat limply in his
chair. The face of the witness was
expressionless, unless her composed
features portrayed her utter confidence in herself. She was not beautiful, but her small figure gave the
impression of strength and stolidity
in its perfect surety of bearing. It
matched the firm, dull glow in her
dark-blue eyes, and the spectators
watched her, not the prisoner. It
was her evidence that would signify
whether the cowering man would
live or die.

The court came to order. The
clever young judge—some said that
he was too young—looked piercingly
at the witness, searching for the
truth that was hers to hold or to tell.
He loved her. The prosecuting attorney asked:

“Did you see this man kill your
employer ?”

“Ves,”

“By what method did the accused
accomplish the deed?”

“He fired a shot from a revolver.
Then he said to me, ‘You dare not
tell.” Then he ran out of the office.”

The jury filed out. It did not take
them long to arrive at the verdict
The accused was guilty.

 

The young judge and the witness
were standing on a bridge on the
edge of the great city, watching the
lights flicker and gleam in the distance.

“But why should he have killed
old Smith?” he mused. She made no
answer, and for minutes they stood,
leaning on the rail, each silent with
his own thoughts. Then she softly
spoke, and her voice vibrated with
the intensity of her feeling:

“You do love me, don’t you?”

For answer, he gently pressed her
arm.

“Then please don’t ever mention
this horrible subject to me again, I
know you never will—to me.”

She laughed, low and tremulously.
He adored that little laugh. He had
first heard it on that day when his
hat had blown off to be speedily and
neatly run over by a passing truck,
He had sheepishly turned, wonder.
ing whether to laugh with the crowd
or to walk sedately away as a judge
should do. But as he lifted his chin
and started on, a little figure suddenly appeared before him
mockingly asked,

“Your hat, sir?”

The unexpectedness of the incident
had made him forget that he was
a judge, and, a boy again, he placed
the tattered remnant on his head.
They laughed hilariously as they
walked off together, in love.

And now, as she laughed with a
delightful tone of mischieviousness
and gaiety, she added,

“Wasn’t that funny—your broken
hat, that day? You know, I love
broken and battered things—things
which everyone else considers useless. If you should lose something
else, something that you cherished—
if it were crushed and made useless
—would you still think it humorous?
Could you still be big enough to
laugh at the absurdity of it all?”

“Of course, your crazy darling.
But what is this you’re giving me 2”

She laughed again, that -lilting

and

France, however, will fight to pre-|laugh he loved. A small bit of paper
vent any such agreement because | had been forced between his fingers.
she too has great interests in this;Such a little piece that his gloved

vicinity and furthermore she has a
perpetual concession on the transportation facilities of Ethiopia. This
was given to her by the late Emperor in return for the investment
and labor expended on them by the
French. France, in contrast to Italy,
has always adopted a_ conciliatory
attitude toward Ethiopia.

Great Britain is also interested.
For many years England has planned the construction of a dam in
the head waters of the Nile, which
rise in Ethiopia. As the Nile is the
life blood of the Soudan and Egypt,
which in turn supplies much of
England’s cotton imports, it is essential that she must have no interference in the development of her
irrigation system. Thus three world
powers are vitally interested. The
other great powers are likewise
concerned with events in Ethiopia,
but in a less material way. For instance, if Italy was to commence
armed conflict in this territory it
(Continued on Page Three)

hands found it difficult to open the
tiny, tight folds. Finally it was
open. He heard her soft, delicious
laugh ring faintly behind him as he
read in the dim light of the street
lamp,

“I killed Robert Smith.”

From the black depths of the
river far below, a faint sound floated
up to him in the still night air. Was
it a splash? He turned, wide-eyed
and frantic. She was gone! He
listened. Her soft laugh, so faintly
—behind him. He turned. She was
not there. But here soft laugh, so
faint, so delicious and tantalizing—
behind him. He turned quickly
again. She was not there.

Then suddenly his confused, his
jumbled thoughts echoed her words,
“Would you be big enough to laugh
at the absurdity of it all?” His
blank mind thought nothing else —
there was nothing left to think. He
had lost something he had cherished.

And so he laughed, at first softly,
(CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE)

  

POET’S CORNER

March 7, 1935

   

FINDING

When Light is painting brightly all the flowers
With colours gay, ra
In vain I seek her through the vivid hours

Of every day.

But when Night pours sepia out and fills

The hollow sea,

And purple shades of Darkness cloud the hills
She comes to me.

 

RAMBLING |

“The Moving Finger writes, and
having writ, Moves on.”
—Omar Khayyam.

 

SO-CALLED CO-EDUCATION

Have women forced their way into
universities because they really
wished equality with men and the
privileges of higher education, or
just because men were there first
and the pursuit of the male necessitated feminine intrusion into the
sanctums of learning? Careful research into the question has convine
to college “to get an education”. I
am not implying that the feminine
mind is inferior to that of the man,
nor that there are no girls at Dalhousie who have a serious interest
in their classes. I merely mean that
the great generality of girls come to
college not to study but to be near
the boys. To spend a few years at
college is thus, for the majority of
them at least, to acquire the fashionable finishing touches of sophistication, to have a good time, and,
perhaps, to meet a few boys. I am
not initiating an anti-feminist association, nor am I proposing that the
present system should be changed.
But I dislike to see terms wrongly
used, and I would like to see the
students, particularly the so-called
“co-eds”, face the facts, and recognize that “co-education” is a delusion, a myth, a fancy—a consummation devoutly to be wished, but as
yet unattained.

HANDWRITING ON THE WALL

It seems to us all too complex how
and why certain people go’ deliberately toward destroying their own
ends. It is indeed no fiction that
many otherwise brilliant careers
have been utterly wrecked by the
casting aside of former ideals in the
now mad lust for power. It is rather
incongruous as to the method how
power is sometimes acquired. Many
a party politic has been swept into

ed the present writer that the latter
.|answer is the correct one.

The name “co-education” is a mis
nomer. It implies that women came

 

office on the wings of silence—
speech sometimes becomes obnoxious. Conversely there is a time to
emit words of wisdom to the sheep.

Let idle rumor alone—favor has
more than once been lost by lending
ear to and seeking to verify false
rumors. Fair play has its reward
in the long run, and if you know in
your heart of hearts that you are
playing the game, well enough.

Perhaps it is a whim of fate that
makes some people cultivate suspicion and disrespect and as a result
unpopularity. Narrowmindedness is
a great destroyer of ideals, for one’s
mind becomes too cramped to adjust
it to the thoughts of other people
who do exist. This idea of saying
what you think and weighing your
words afterwards is a very poor
policy. By this means the very
foundation stone of your career may
become irreparably injured through
the medium of vengeance, jealousy,
and suspicion.

Another great fault is that of
openly courting high office especially in student government. ‘The college student is a very funny creature
and this is one thing that does not
strike him just right. Another is
the gobbling up of offices by one
man. He resents this and although
the particular cause of his resentment may for the time be successful
there will come a day.

He who builds unwisely will ultimately come to his end—that is the
handwriting on the wall.

| Where

in the Evening?

Why, The Green Lantern, of course, with
its

cosy, attractive

“Canterbury Room”.

You'll like it.

THE

GREEN LANTERN

Let's Talk About The

Springtime .. .

Our Society Brand early Spring Suits and Top
coats have arrived.

New patterns in Scotch

Tweeds, fairly heavy for the cool, crisp days of

March and April.

Come in and look them over

and see at the same time the new Hats and Shirts.

THE SENSATION SHIRT FOR EARLY SPRING

Shado-Strype by Arrow — You can buy it with

attached collar — English tab or two separate
starched collars, at

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

DAL STUDENTS’ RATE

 

A DISCOUNT OF 10%

 
   
   
    

»

ill
4

f
BI

b

   

iw
, 5
at i A
Pi
ae
_

  

v

Pa
a

_

iy 4

* Ps
mt

— A

+e

os.

 

a
=

- +
y*

x
a
allt,

| UNIVERSITY

 
 
    
  

2

ca

tb |
i ds .

  

wy

77. E
a: 1 .
Sewihod hp mS
or ie wea <
4A AP U V | N
Px AND

 

| GENTZEL

a

;

= T
7 a
P. j

| Photographers to

| DALHOUSIE

—_—_—_—
7

an

ws

Special Rates

| STUDENTS

|

24 Hour Finishing
Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Gardren Rd
Phone B. 6992

THE FOURTH.
BOOK OF BUNK

Chapter 19.

1. And many, many years past,
long before the Lande of Dal existed up at Studley, there appeareth
on the scene at the then very little
Lande of Dal a staunch Pik-toeNyan whose name will e’er be uttered with pride from the Leeps of
the Children of Dal. This Mhan
bore the name of George Mhun-Roh.
He was a mhan of intell-igens and
far-sited-nhess who had _ earned
Fhame and Fortune in the whorld
outside. By his far-sited-nhess he
viz-ual-ized a greater Lhande of
Dal where future Ghenerashuns
might partake of the fruits of Edukashun. He generously gave of his

ie _Fhortune unto the “Leetle College”,
and it was he who set the Fhirm

you partake of the Festivities. Espeshyally ye who clamour and cry
that the Children of Dal have no
speeret. Remember that ye are

Dal’s children, so be sure to hie

yourself unto the Geem to remem
‘ber the day that a gentleman, a

scholar, and a true son of Dal
showed the truest speeret possible—
\that of kindness and generosity.

8. And while the studes anxushlee await the day of Celebrashun,
Sodalees gather themselves at Studley to argue what is wrong with
our Lhande of Dal. The enhergheteek President of Sodalees was
in the chair and he beggeth all to
air their vues. The first to arise
was none other than Benyett’s
Feesher. He telleth all just what
is wrong with them. They mixeth
politiks with pleazur, and forgetth
Dal. Rhand, too, ariseth and with
great eloquens, which is truly his,
he showeth the studes of Dai that
their form of Counsel of Studes and
gov-urn-mhent is far inferyor to
that of Akaydya. Many others
voiced their opinyuns, but like all
other debates no ghoal was reached.
But the meeting was noht-ubel for
one theeng. It portrayed how interested the Counsel of Studes were
in there own affares, for they were
over kon-spik-u-us in their absens.
It showeth how much they care for
the opin-yuns of the studes. Let the
new Counsel-to-bee take heed.

4. But as all klowds have there
seelver linings, so hath this meeting
one ghud idea. The mhaster mhinds
decideth to invite unto there midst
the noble President, who, it seems,
has in the midst of his labors forgotten that he hath in the palm of
has hand the solushun to all the
problems of the studes, and espeshulee that of speeret. Yea, verily,
our Nhable President is a busy
mhan. But if he hath mhore interest in the Xtra-curricular actions of
hees children there would be more
speeret. If, too, the learned Profs
interested themselves in the studes’
hours of rekreashun they would aid
to imbue in the Children of Dal a
speeret and Lhove of Dal. But Lo,
it is nhot so. But perhaps it soon
will be thus, and there will arise
unto the Lhande of Dal a new Lhife,
a nhew Generashun, a nhew Speeret.

  
  
  
 

_ Foundsashun to our Almah-Matter.

2 So thus the Senut of today
h wisely passed the Lhaw that
yhear the Children of Dal
_ should make a day of celebrashun

The goode olde dhays will once
again return, and happy-nhess will
once again rheign.
' 5. Beyond the sekret portals of
Shee-Reff-Yawl a nhew phad cometh
in remembrans of our nhoble Bene-|into stile. The young Ladees begin
Factor. The fourteenth day of |to believe in the medikal eenovashun
March will be Dallhousie’s Dhay, and|of een-ok-ul-ashun. Arms begin to
will be a day of vakashun and cele-| swell, but they careth nhot, for they
brashun for all you studes. Se that/are fighting the dreaded disease
from early morn till late at night of Bascyelie Tie-pho-ses; and when

 

i ae A ee
_ 4 5 Fs
ay a
: '
st

a

f

A delighttu

enerqy maker

_finest chocolate,
pure cane sugar
and rich milk are

 

  

Fe ideally combined in

___ this favourite bar
a - Fhe Best Milk Chocolate Made
a

146

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Gazette
BOOK REVIEW

A VILLAGE IN A VALLEY
| Beverley Nichols

The third of a series about his delight in country living, “A Village
in a Valley”, by Beverley Nichols
follows up “A Thatched Roof” and
“Down the Garden Path”.

Written in the same placid style
as the first two in the series, this
last book has perhaps greater extremes of enthusiasm and sentiment
than his opening stories. One may
find him, in fact, a trifle over-enthusiastic in his devotion to the open
country, when he tells us e.g. that
his white petunias remind him of
Sylphides and Chopin, or when he
gurgles about “Veils of Night”, and
skies like “a brazen gong”.

Yet his love for his garden and the |

country is genuine, and the portrayal of his neighbours in his village
—Allways—is heightened by the
author’s true understanding and devotion to his surroundings. Even his
style of writing catches the suggestion of open fields and country ways
in summer time: he has written with
a sort of fluent placidity, moving
along serenly and without too much
excitement, a man completely satisfied with life at the moment, as he
lies amid the quietness and peace of
trees, birds and flowers.

While it is true that the book is
mainly one of description, there is
flowing through it a thin trickle of a
story. The chief interest centres
around Miss Hazlitt, who is cheated
out of her income of two pounds a
week and then set up in a small shop
by her kindly neighbours.

However, such a book as this is to
be judged not by its story, but by
its general atmosphere. It is when
the author wanders off, talking of
the country and its human touch,
that he is at his best. Anyone having lived alone in an old ramshackle
house in the country will understand
his communing with the sound of
beams cracking at night. “It is a
queer, brittle sound,” he says, “as
though somebody were rapping at
the door.

As you lie in bed, the beams begin

MOVIE REVIEW

“DAVID COPPERFIELD”

Truly Dickens in spirit and character was the movie “David Copperfield”. It caught, in subtle fashion,
the chief characteristic of his genius
— a sympathetic understanding of
life. In its necessary limitation of
incident and personage, its selection
was always the outcome of good
taste and commonsense, with the result that Dickens’ worst faults, sentimentality and melodramatic coincidences, were almost omitted.

Praise must be given Freddie Bartholomew for his interpretation of
the young David. In its freshness,
in its absolute entrance into the
character, his acting has yet to be
equalled. There were no artificialities, no straining after emotions not
his own; his face mirrored not only
the more obvious feelings, but the
more elusive ones as well. And
Frank Lawton, as David, followed
his lead and gave to the character a
sensitive finess. And, miraculously,
he was in appearance what one hoped young David would be.

All the memorable characters of
the novel were there. Peggotty,
whose buttons were always bursting
with love for the boy; Aunt Betsey
Trotwood, with her antipathy for
donkeys, her indomitable manner and
her sudden tenderness; Uriah Heep
the “’umbly grateful’, played by
Roland Young, whose face was perhaps too pleasant but whose “red
jand clammy hands” were all too
realistic; Barkis who “was willin’ ”;
Mrs. Gummidge, “a poor, lone creetur”; Mr. Micawber, the impecunious
but grandiloquent, confidently expecting that “something extraordinary would turn up”. One regrets
Tommy Traddles who was loved by
the “dearest girl in the world; the
gentle, guileless Dr. Strong; and, of
course, Miss Mowcher.

The movie unified the ‘story’ of the
novel. It laid aside little irrelevancies and discrepancies of thought and
action. But it failed to give the
sweep, the almost overwhelming
multitude of characters that the
book contains. The producers showed excellent restraint is not making
it only a love story; they managed
to convey the sense of a man living
his life nobly, quietly and happily.

their strange jerky conversation In that resepet, “David Copperfield”

You start. Your hands drop onto
the sheets. Crack again. The house
you see, is sinking, little by little,
through the centuries. These are the
tiny sighs of protest, the proof that
its limbs though strong are growing
weary.”

Most people will doubtless find the
story whimsical and entirely charming.

Others will think that Mr. Nichols
is at times deliberating spritely in
manner, and at other times almost
unbearably sentimental. But even
the reader who inclines to the latter
view has to admit that there are
many amusing things in the book.

 

one from Shee-Reff-Yawl can fight,
what kareth they about swollen
arms. And too ’tis gently whispered
that there cometh into the sekret
portals the only mhan who has entered into the grate beyond. He is
but a lowly Doktor, but it is he who
hath the honor of skratching the
arms of the pore maidens. And too
tis rumoured that thees Doktor is
nhot too bhad to look at, for he too
hath the jhob of X-am-een-eeng all
the studes each yhére; and this duty
of fighting baceyelie tiephosis with
all the bhutefull Koheds of SheeReff-Yall comes as an added attracshun not only for the fare maidens,
but also for the Dhok. Perhaps this
leetle storee will account for the
sudden love of Annty-Toxeen among
our Thiger whomen.

LAUGHTER——

(Continued from Page Two)
then sobbingly, his whole body trembling. He laughed while his eyes
grew wide and vacant. He screamed
his laughter into the night till tiny
specks of foam showed on his bluish
lips.

 

 

Barton Lectures Here

J. E. Barton, Headmaster of
Bristol Grammar School, who has
been giving lectures throughout
Canada under the auspices of the
National Art Gallery, lectured to a
large number of students and professors in the Chemistry Theatre on
Monday afternoon on “The Aesthetie Side of Education.”

His subject was well delivered and
appreciated by his audience.

 

was a real achievement.

 

Student’s Forum-
‘Editor The Gazette:

Dear Sir,—Have all your readers
heard of the new game, “What’s
Wrong with Dalhousie?” introduced

y the executive of Sodales, to a
large number of enthusiastic fans
at the Arts Building on Saturday
afternoon. The rather enticing subject had lured together the largest
crowd to attend a Sodales meeting
in years, but although several speakers touched on the vital points of
the subject, and for a time it looked
as if those present would at least
know the cause, if not the remedy,
for the conceded deficits in college
life at Dalhousie before the meeting
had closed, the speakers had again
strayed from the path and the students can once more be compared to
the “lost babes in the wood”,

One of the ladies present gave a
convincing display of the spirit that
one would be proud to claim as
true. While at times she may have
been slightly too enthusiastic in discussing the advisability of doing
away with Latin and compelling the
students to speak to one another,
on the whole she gave the meeting
a good working basis for the ensuing discussion.

One of Dal’s most prominent
speakers followed, and having upbraided the Studley students for
their sheep-like characteristics in
allowing the Forrest Hall students to
lead all their activities, he stated
that he would be a goat and try to
lead the Studley group out of the
fog. Everybody admits John’s qualifications for the job, but wondered
why he picked on the poor goat.
The speaker blamed the lack of
unity and co-operation so noticeable
at Dal on the facts that we have no
residence, too many fraternities, and
a bigoted traditionalism which keeps
the students interested in their own
small cliques rather than the college
as a whole. The dominant note back
of this speaker’s talk was the need
of getting the students together on
a common ground.

The next man to give voice to his
ideas was probably the most prac
ee

 

 

 

STEPPING HIGH!

Doggone it man—seeing is

believing! And when you see
so many smokers concentrating on Turrets, it’s a mighty
good sign that Turrets are
high steppers in cigarette
quality. Turrets back them
all off the stage in the
matter of downright smoking
enjoyment!

Sy ouatity and Mildness
urret

CIGARETTES
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

 

opia will, when transportation permits, be a beehive of activity, it is
only natural that these two trading
countries want to have a share in
the market. Therefore, they are
anxious to preserve the status quo
and preserve that which they already have.

All foreign offices keep constant
vigilance on the movements of
Mussolini’s men. It is believed that
the Quai D’orsay has already instructed M. Laval to lay down his
cards before Italy’s Duce. Perhaps
the world will witness another Imperialistic expansion, this time, however, under the aegis of a dictator
rather than through the pressure of
the entrepreneur.

It is interesting to compare this
expansion with the view held by
Mr. Leonard Woolf, in his _ book,
“Imperialism and _ Civilization”,
Woolf holds that as long as the
profit motive continues, we shall
have imperialistic expansion and its
consequent upheavals. He suggests
that if the League of Nations could
honestly put into practise Article
22, it would aid greatly in the advancement of unprogressive and virgin countries,

The League can prevent history
from repeating itself in this as in
other sections of Africa. It is possible through the World Court and
Council of the League to settle disputes by discussion and adjudication.
It would seem as though Woolf hit
the right instrument when he chose
the League of Nations. If America
is for the Americans, and Europe
|for the Europeans, Asia must be for
the Asians and Africa for the Africans, and that will mean the end
of imperialism, the end of conflict,
and the beginning of a synthesis of
| civilizations.

tical speaker at the meeting. He
recommended the practices of his
former alma mater, where the senior
students adopted and took an interest in the new comers.

college sons.

Analyzing the remarks of the
various speakers, the writer would
suggest that the chief reason for
the prevailing discontent lies in the
fact that there is no college residence. As a result, there is no
common centre for the student’s interest. The college activity has developed into one small unit trying
to emulate the functions of another
unit, and so we find the Law dance,
the Med dance, theX frat party and
Sorority party, but clear of the
Glee Club, nothing that can be
called a Dal party.

One of the speakers advocated a
Saturday night students’ dance at a
nominal price, to be held exclusively
for the students.

But before any suggestions were
commended as going to the root of
the matter, someone suggested that
the meeting be adjourned until a
future date, at which time President
Stanley will be invited to preside
and tell the students what he thinks
is the matter with Dalhousie.

Be that as it may, Mr. Editor, the
writer wishes to add that in his
humble opinion it will be worth while
for every student to attend the next
meeting which, if the crowd makes
it necessary, can be held in the large
gym.

 

INTERESTED STUDENT.

Comment-
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)
would give Mr. Hitler and his Germany and an opportunity to once
again press for the return of the
pre-war German colonies in Africa.
Both Germany and Japan look to
Ethiopia in another sense, and that
is as a market for their cheaplymade goods. Thousands of their
inexpensive gimcracks have already
found a market in Ethiopia, where
the purchasing power is low. Japan,
with aggressive sales, has made terrific inroads in the Ethiopian market. With the certainty that Ethi
 

 

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
At sour B.7376

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

 

Halifax Transfer
~“ B. 7138

BIRKS.-
Silver toiletware — a gift
of quality and
beauty.

 

lasting

MacLeod, Balcom
Limited

Open stock patterns permit purchasing individual
pieces from a few dollars
upwards.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

DRUGGIST

Halifax and Bedford

 

 
  
  

  

    
 

 
   
 

 
 

nts Yr

 
 

    
 

   
  

"The Bengals romped off to a big

  

rt in the early section of the half
and the affair looked most one-sided.
_ In the dying minutes of the first
half the Association team, spurred
on by Dal’s 11 point lead, reduced
the lead of their opponents to five
‘points, on scores by Bob Goudey
and Smith, to end the half 15 to 10
- for Dal. Caught off their guard, the
College team failed to tally, while
the “Y” team had their own way as
the period closed.

   
  

   

“THE “Y” TEAM GIVES STIFF
OPPOSITION IN SECOND.

  

Determined to have things their
own way, the Smith-Goudey combination dropped in four more points
to eut the Dal lead to a mere point,
"on a total score of 15—14. With
their>backs to the wall the Tigers
seratched and fought hard, cutting
into their opponents for six points
on baskets by Charlie Anderson,
Milt Musgrave and Ted Crease. This
‘sudden rally put the team in a
favorable 21—14 lead. Encouraged
by the bravery of their brother
_ Tigers, others of the team got into
the fray, to bring the score 29—18
efor Dal,  ~
et As in the final minutes “of the
a opening stanza, the “Y” team again
_ fought back with determination to
‘threaten the lead. Tom Parker onetime Dalhousian, was the big thorn
 « — in Dal’s side, as he dropped three
___ elean shots to shatter the gold and
black lead to five. Time out called
Captain Donnie Bauld failed to
curb Parker as he added another
field shot on play being resumed.
ees ‘Three points was too too slim a lead
against such a determined quintette
as the “Y” proved to be. Milt Musgrave added 2 points for the collegians, only to have Smith cancel
ete Ay on a field SCOKC.. .
te With one minute left to go and
_. the fans on their toes, rangy Bill
Gladstone sank a basket for a five
point lead. The best the “Y” could
do by way of retaliation was score
a foul shot by fiery Red Grant, and
the Tigers retired from the hardfought contest with a four point
lead of 33—29.

   
 

  

  

  

 
 

a Pie
a 
ey?
ed

A a)
J *
Z

 

   

  
  

Souvenir
Postcards

of
Dalhousie University
A Set of 12 for 25c¢

  

    
         

  

Now on Sale at

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
STORE

 
     
   
  
 

om!

cee i a
a OC .

ts respective nine-day lay-off from competition

account for the close call. Dal, with but two games,

ere : and Acadia at Studley, and no
¢ ce of copping the league.

Cubs Lead League

\(” Mr. Stirling’s Cubs jumped into

first place in the Halifax Intermediate Basketball League by a
decisive victory over Halifax “Y”
Seconds in a return game at Studley. Outscoring their opponents
from the start, the young Tigers
had no difficulty in taking a 44—
18 victory from their rivals. Led
-by high-scoring Chuck Lorway,
and sky-pilot Ken Sullivan with 10
each, the Cubs broke a three-cornered league tie to advance towards the coveted prey, the title.

From the opening whistle Dal
started off with a rush, forcing
the “Y” to resort to a defensive
game. A total of ten baskets fell
in favor of the Cubs, while a
strong defence kept off the attack
by limiting the “Y” seconds to
four baskets and a lone foul shot.
It was obviously a Dal night from
the early stages and when the
half closed they had a big lead of
11 points.

Spreading wide in the second,
the collegians showed the benefit
of their many practices with the
Tigers and in one big merry-goround scored a_ total of twenty
points to a single penalty for the
losers. The last five minutes of
play saw the “Y” boys take on a
new lease of life when they staged
a rally which netted them eight
points. Dal’s lead, however, was
too great to overcome and they
walked off the gym at the close of
the contest with a 26 point advantage. Cy Miller, a recent addition
to the Cubs, from the Interfaculty
League, proved the outstanding

guard of the game as he netted a |

score of 8 points.
DALHOUSIE — Geo. Simon, 3;
Ed Stewart, 1; Oscar Serlin, 1;
Ken Sullivan, 10;. Geo. Murphy,
Doug Lyall, 2; Chuck Lorway, 10;
Leo Green, 5; Maurice Dean, 4;
Leo Simmonds, Ben Du Bilier, Cy
Miller, 8.

Law Takes First

In Champ Series either team.

In the first of a two game total
goal series Law took the highly
touted Med. team into camp to the
tune of a 1 to 0 victory. Led by
lanky Art Smith, Law more than
held their own on the offensive,
while their defence was vastly superior to that thrown up before
Sproule in the nets for Medicine.

The game opened fast, with Law
content to let Medicine come to them,
later venturing to go on a few scoring jaunts of their own.

Gosse, McDonald and Duffy were
doing some fast playing around
center ice, but their attacks seldom
penetrated the strong Law defence
and Bobby McLellan, Law’s star
goal tender, easily handled their
shots from the blue line.

 

  
    
  
       
  
   

_A Message To College Men

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a provision for the future, or contemplating the selling
of life insurance as a profession, you would do
well to consider the outstanding sixty-four record
of The Mutual Life of Canada.
with our nearest Branch Manager or our Home

Communicate

u al Life Assurance Company

OF CANADA
HOME OFFICE — WATERLOO, ONTARIO
. Established 1869

 

to breaking the Maritime Titlists’
ousians scraped out a 33—29 vic; games. The victory gives Dal a
ague title, while the loss put the
x.  Dalhousie’s tallest, Mit Mus1 the Bengals to victory with 10

 

(By ED STEWART)

Boxing trials for the Intercollegiate Meet will take place
in the lower gym on Friday, March 8. There will be five or six
bouts on the programme, with most of the contestants either
former or present champions. There will be bouts between
Rapsey, a former Toronto University title holder, and Eddie
Arab, present Intercollegiate champion in the featherweight
class. Others will include Harry Gaum versus Max Abelson;
John Glorioso versus Boyd MacGillivray; and Mike Hinchey
versus Karl Kranz. All are well-matched and finished fighters,
so they will provide plenty of action. The Intercollegiate Meet
is schediwed to take place on Thursday, March 14, at St. F. X.,
but, due to the fact that Munro Day falls on the same date,
efforts are being made to postpone it.

 
  
    
   
   

  

  
   
 

  
     
 

Dat continues to win in both the Senior and Intermediate
Basketball Leagues. The Seniors can’t seem to hit their stride,
and usually brilliant playing -on the part of some one or two
members of the team is directly responsible for their winning.
Everyone seems to be looking forward to the return game between Dal and Wanderers. If Dal men win this game they will
clinch the title, while if they lose they will be in a tie with
Wanderers. Acadia has postponed two games in Halifax and
seems unwilling to undertake the expense of bringing a team
to the city if there is no chance anyway. Many, too, are looking forward to the return game with Acadia, which, according
to reports, ought to provide plenty of action. It is rumored
that if this game takes place the team will again run a dance
in conjunction with it.

 
 
  

 
     
 
    
     
      
      
      

The badminton tournament is well underway, with the
semi-final and final rounds to take place in the near future.
Many interesting matches are in prospect, especially in the final
round, which, it seems, will bring together Vic Oland, present
county singles champ, and Allan Finlay, former title holder.

     
   
      
       
 

 

The Commerce hockey team is to be congratulated on
improved showing this year. Last season it was a hockey team
in name only, but this year it has been a real threat, losing to
Law only after a second game.

‘Dal Co-eds Are Trounced
By Acadia Basketeers

Acadia’s Evangelines were successful in stopping the titlesearching quest of the Tiger women in a decisive victory at the
| Valley Gymnasium. Dal girls are still in a favorable position
| with two wins and a single loss to lead the Maritime Intercollegiate League. Dot Dobson led the Dal team in point-scor‘ing with 8 counters, followed by Billy Oxley with 5. Close
guarding and accurate shooting proved the downfall of the
black and gold players. Final score found Dal on the short end
of a 82—15 tally.

In the second period the Law at| tack, augmented | by Hinchey ment, IN THE FIRST HALF.
the puck in Medicine territory. In’
la mix-up in front of the Med. net,
Manning slammed the puck in, but
Duffy managed to get the puck out,

   
      
       
    

 

 
    
   
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
    
    
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
   
   
  

| ACADIA TAKES BIG LEAD

Starting off on a scoring spree, the
Valley girls ran in a string of baskets in the first quarter for a total
without the referee seeing him. of olelyen points. Dal forwards found
Ryan was right in on McLellan, but tp. opposing guards a stone wall
| Bob out-guessed him and the teams and were forced to go scoreless in
| went into the third period without a the opening quarter. The Dal mascore having been registered by chine got into action in the second

part of the first half, during which
they scored but one less point than
their opponents. This, however, gave
the Acadians a wide lead of a dozen
‘points when the gun went for the
first half—Acadia 19; Dalhousie 7.

 

In the last period the Med attack
began to function better and led by
Russ. McLellan, Ryan and Duffy,
swept in on McLellan. Hal Connor
relieved the pressure with a long
solo rush but lost the puck to the
Med. defence. With four minutes to
go Smith got the puck at center ice.
Stickhandling beautifully, he split
the defence, to coast in on Sproule,
who had no chance.

Along with Smith and McLellan,
Murray, Hinchey and Connor showed

DAL FAILS TO CUT DOWN
ACADIA LEAD.

Although fresh from a victory
;over Mt. A. the previous week, Dal
girls failed to find their usual form
in the second half as the Evangelines increased their lead. The usual
high-liners, Flo Keniston and Billie
Oxley, just seemed to have struck

Law: Goal, McLellan; defence: a slump. As in the previous quarConnor, Ross; forwards: Smith, ters, the winners again outscored
Murray, Hanson, Hinchey, Manning, Dal co-eds 7

i to 4 to take a total
Ferguson, Henley. lead of 26 to 11. This stretched the
Medicine:

Goal, Sproule; defence: | winners’ lead from 12 to a wider
Peters, LeBrun; forwards: Duffy, margin of 15 points. In the final
Ryan, McLellan, Young, McDonald, quarter Acadia registered six to
Gosse. four for Dal, bringing the final score
Johnny Cartoll handled the whistle to more than double their opponents.
to the satisfaction of both teams. Acadia—Jean Ingraham, 16; Fran
Roach; Janet Forshay, 3; Peg
Schwartz, H. Dunham, 10; Elsie
Long, G. Elliott, E. Clarke, M. Burgess, L. Freeman, M. Chandler.
Dalhousie—Billie Oxley, 5; Dot

up well for Law, while Duffy, Ryan
and McLellan bore the brunt of the
Med. attack. Teams lined up:

 

Interfaculty Basketball

Dentists got into semi-finals for |
the Interfaculty Basketball title by
a one point victory over Arts and
Science. Bill Scott’s last second field| Dobson, 8; Flo Keniston, 2; Ruth
basket gives Dentistry a 20—19 vic-|Skaling, Marg. Woolaver, Shirley
tory over a hard playing Arts and| Sterns, Sheila Stewart, Kay Sircom.
Science team. Speedy Henry Ross
leads the losers with an individual
score of 10 markers.

John Tokesh led his team to a

 

 

 

GIRLS’ INTECOLLEGIATE
LEAGUE STANDING,

11—5 score in the opening period, Withee ee. A.
only to have Arts and Science stage} Dalhousie ..2 1 4 70 79
a rally at the start of the second to; Acadia .....1 1 2 58 37
| displace Dentistry for the lead. The BE Menton Ot 26.99 )

SSS

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St, Garrick St.

‘Halifax Steam Laundry
Limited —
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.
- SS

winners fought back to gain a one
point lead with a minute to go, as
each team warmed up. Ross then
sank another to give his team a
slight temporary lead. From guard
position came Bill Seott with the
winning basket by a lone point for
the Dentists. ;

     

 

 

 

:

 

THE CAPITOL

44-46 SACKVILLE ST.

CASINO

STARTING SATURDAY

“Man of Aran”

Declared Best Picture of the
Year by National Board of
Revue, and won the Gold Cup

at the Cinemagraphers’ Exposition at Venice.

—and—
“The Camels Are
Coming”
with
JACK HURLBERT

 

_ Make your old hat do for spring

We'll recondition it like new for 50c.
And if your Shoes Need Fixin’

WE CALL AND DELIVER

SHOE REPAIR

Just Phone B-8566

FRIDAY, SAT., MON.

SHIRLEY
TEMPLE

LIONEL BARRYMORE
—in

“The Little Colonel”

Bringing a new world of
carefree joyousness to the
screen.

 

Friday’s Boxing Trials
To Provide Good Scraps

 

Although he had been forced to postpone his inter-class
boxing meet for a week, to allow several of the fighters to completely recover from the effects of the “flu”,
“4 | Arab of the Dal boxing squad, announces for Friday night a
,|card which at present shapes up as the snappiest boxing tourinament offered to a Halifax public in years.

Manager Eddie

Wink Johnson,

| who has been working hard under the watchful eye of the vet;eran Boyd MacGillivray, appears to be the man to beat in the
;eran Boyd MacGi , ap]

1118 pound class. A clean fighter, with a real fighting heart,

| Wink will be throwing gloves until the final bell
Wink is John Jarvie, the Waterford bearcat.
an absolute novice, John showed sufficient ability to take his
‘man in the inter-class meet and later gave Donald, St. F. X
star and intercollegiate bantam champion for several years,
good go. With a year’s experience added to his natural ability,
Jarvie should be able to put up a battle with the best men in

his class.

In the second bout on the
Eddie Arab will meet Jack Rapsey.
While Rapsey has never shown his

wares locally, he is reputed to ave

held the championship of Toronto
for two years, during which time he
represented Toronto on teams that
met boxers from Harvard and the
University of Syracuse. It will be
interesting to local fans to see how
he will shape up against Dal’s “Toy
Bulldog”’.

The third fight will bring together
two N. S. Tech men, when Frank
Murphy, former featherweight champion, takes on Paul MeNeil, who
picked up his boxing experience
around New Waterford and St. F. X.
MeNeil, a fast, clever boxer, has always proved himself popular with
the Dal fans. A real box-office attraction, Paul has always gone out
of his way to help out the Dal boxing teams.

In what should prove to be the
best amateur boxing bout ever
staged in the province the two veterans—Glorioso and MacGillivray—
will battle for the welterweight supremacy. It is campus gossip that
John worked particularly hard to
make the welterweight limit when he
heard Boyd was fighting in that
class, while it is no secret that
Boyd has been pestering the boxing
manager for months to allow him
to skip the welterweight class and
meet Glorioso as a middleweight,
even although it meant giving away
ten pounds. But with “Glory” down
to the welter limit, both boys will
weigh in somewhere between 145
and 150 pounds.

The fans are due for another treat
when Mike Hinchey, Law’s all-round
athlete, hooks with J. Krantz, a
golden glove competitor in 1933.
Mike is bound to show plenty of
action. If Krantz measures up to
expectations, this bout, although
billed as an exhibition, will provide
fireworks, “for Hinchey won’t be

content to put on a mild sparring
exhibition.

 

   

    

FROM THE

WINNERS 89M 2

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you

play the game with the hest
that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.

Limited.
HALIFAX, N. S,

 
       
   
   
     
       

 

 

card, |

|

. Matched with
Last year, when

ry
- .

a

Hymie Magonet will endeavor to
give big Abe Becker a boxing lesson for three rounds; but with two
hundreds pounds. back of Abe’s flying gloves, it is liable to prove a
dangerous experiment. Hymie, the

present intercollegiate light-heavy-~

weight champion, will represent his
class in the St. F. X. bouts, but it
has not been decided yet whether he
will also represent the heavyweights.
Becker, although more adept at the
wrestling game, is expected to give
Magonet plenty of opposition, and
probably both boys will get a chance
to represent the College in their respective classes.

In the middleweight division
Harry Gaum will tackle Max Abelson. These boys met last year and
the meeting wasn’t exactly of a pink
tea nature. Abelson is out to clear
all doubt that he is Gaum’s master.
Harry, however, is a typical Cape

Breton fighter and is placing all bets

on himself.

Jack McDonald, former Glace Bay
man, at one time professional featherweight champion of the Maritimes, will be the third man in the
ring. McDonald has been coaching
the team for the past two years,
and the boys attributed their fine
showing in last year’s tournament
to the interest he has shown in
them.

The judges will be W. Stirling,
Gordon Archibald and Ort Hewitt,

while John Fisher will act as announcer.

 

   
 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.
B-6070

 

 

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

Cousins’ Limited

Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

   
 
  
  
 
    

 

 
