 

caps and snow balls.

 

 

ae Vie

Lawyers In Fine Form

For

A Law Sogiety tag day may not be far off if Dame Rumor|

Society Dance

is on the right track this time. In presenting that shuffle last
Friday down at the Nova Scotian, the future members of the
bar went close to $80 in the hole, ‘tis said, and that may interfere with plans for the annual Christmas banquet.

The cause? Remember those love
ly blackand gold folders whereupon |
the names of comely dance partners |

were’ td be inscribed? Well, they
cost something like $40. Remember
how many were there? Not too

many, (about 150 couples) and at)

that a good number were either partpaying or non-paying guests.

But the dance was good fun, and
most of the attendants will say it
was worth going in the hole for. As
a matter of fact, two staunch
Kingsmen astounded staid Pictonians
the following morning by appearing
for breakfast in that fat-off Séotch
centre gloriously attired in dinner
jackets. avon gate

Jerry Naugler and his orchestra
played delightful music. There were
exactly 17 dances and two extras
lasting from 9.30 to 2.30 or, in some
cases, a bit longer. Such tunes as
“One Night of Love” and’ “Hot Cha

Cha” received the applause they did
because they fitted into the spirit of

the whole'thing.
‘Conveniently near the middle of

the dance, supper was held. Set on
all tables were novelties of every |

description —. whistles, horns, hats,

 
  
  

ow-ball fight and general horn
\
=

ning room with a smile on
even then a success. A good time
was had by all. |

a, Under the capable direction of Bill

Kelly, Roland McIntyre and “Doc”
Byrne, the evening left little to be
desired. Perhaps the most amazing
part of the whole night was the imposing list of patrons and the number of chaperones.

The dance was held under the dis
tinguished patronage of Hon. Angus
L. Macdonald, Premier of Nova

Seotia and Hon. J. A. Chisholm,

Chief Justice of Nova Scotia. Mrs.
Vincent C. MacDonald, Mrs. George
H. Crouse, Mrs. John A. Walker and
Mrs. J. Wilfred Godfrey acted as
chaperones for the evening.

 

International Relations

Sentiment in the Saar Valley is
decidedly pro-German, according to
some authorities, while others “ believe the opposite. The plebiscite
which will take place in that area
in January will be of intense interest to the entire world. On it depends the regulation of International
Relations. There have been many
rumors circulated concerning Nazi
influence in the Saar section—some
are diifficult to comprehend, others
seem highly probable, when one
realizes the policies of the present
German government.

Although France now has jurisdiction in the Saar Valley, no doubt
they would be loath to relinquish
this hold should the plebiscite called
for such go in’ Germany’s’ favor.
Then, too, those coal areas of the
Saar, which were given to France
in recompense for the havoc done to
northern French mines during the
Great War will be another hot spot
to test the honesty and level-headedness of the diplomats. If each country concerned will se the problem

from both sides, a strained situation

may be relieved and a catastrophe
_ be averted. ‘If, on the other hand,
_ either party, Germany or France,

_ allows prejudice or nationalistic

feeling to interfere with their ‘de_cisions anything may happen.

hi Set

After the}
_ parts.
rs period, a delightful, soul-| 5. The simple thing would be

raising 2 song was held. Everyone
~ > left the ini 4 ;

5 his, her, or its face. The party was

 

NOTICE!

The Gazette two weeks ago
announced a prize of ten books in
the Everyman’s Library would be
given to the best essay on the
subject, “The Ungentlemanliness
of Ladies at Dalhousie”, the time
closing today.

Some protests were received
over our choice of subject, and the
Gazette has decided to advance
the time two more weeks and to
receive essays on the following
subjects:

1. Resolved that, in view of the
existence of Everyman’s Library,
college professors may now safely
be abolished. (This essay to be
in the form of a speech, either for
or against).

2. On the _ Possibility that,
Pride and other Sins considered,
Pictou County was a divine mis
' take

3. Resolved that no further
time need be wasted in reading

' Yellowfax newspapers.

4. On the inexorable necessity
that the Maritime Provinces continue to be divided into three

to give every baby, when it is
christened, a B.A. degree.

Class of “38”

Elect Officers

Assembled in Room 3 of the Arts
Building recently, Class ’38 staged
its elections for the class officers,
which resulted in the choice of a
rather cosmopolitan executive, being
made up as follows:
President—Joseph Likely, St. John.
Vice-Pres.—Lou Morrison, Toronto.
Secretary—Ruth Weigand, Buenos

Aires.
Treasurer—Wm. Stevens, New York.

The meeting took place immediately after a talk given to the class
by Professor George Wilson on
College Life. The speaker stressed
the importance of the friendships
which can be formed at college, particularly those which promote free
exchange of thoughts and feelings.
“Think,” said “Professor Wilson,
“out of all your acquaintances have
you one friend whom you feel that
you can safely trust with your inmost thoughts and cares—one friend
who trusts you with his thoughts
and cares?” College is a place for
the broadening of the mind, and this
is to be secured as much out of the
classroom as in. He also told the
group he would like to see every
one of them participating in some
form of athletics.

The head of the History Department interspersed his remarks with
interesting reminiscences of his own
college career, and was heartily applauded at the conclussion of his
talk.

D. A. A. C, Notes

The basketball season is just about
to begin—outside of dancing, it has
become Dalhousie’s major sport. It
is hoped that the D.A.A.C. will see
its way clear to expend a few dollars for distinguishing bands for the
players. The money would be well
spent and it would make the Gym
approximate respectability instead
of. a nudist colony.

 

Official Student Publication

 

ing of the Lower Gym, where it will

Meeting of the student body about

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 15, 1934

Nine Piece Band |Sophmores To
At Class Party Have Party

Featuring Laurie Hart’s nine-piece 37 will trot

 

Members of Class

orchestra, Classes °85 and ’36 are | down to the dance hall of a local}

club Friday night for their first class
party of the year.
A somewhat novel type of party

getting together in their pre-Christ- |
mas parties to hold a combined affair Friday, Nov. 23. Starting at
8.30, novelties are promised through-|has been arranged by Leo Simout the evening with a prize for the |monds, Rudd Hattie and Ruth Skalmoron who tears down the most|ing, the committee in charge. Everydecorations from the walls and ceil-|one attending has to dress in an
ie of owe unusual costume, preferably that of

 

be held a child. Dances and games which

The one-buck per couple charge /give particular joy to kiddies have
includes all refreshments except|been thought up by the committee
cigarettes. and promise to pave the way for a

\glorious time, and early indications

- Mit Musgrave and Don Saunderare that the affair will be successful.

son, class presidents, are arranging
the party.

 

P ine Hill P en-Pricks | Miss Ruth Sumner left on Friday

Some of the theologues were out|to spend the Armistice week-end at
last Monday for a softball workout | her home in Moncton.
in the Dal gymnasium. Charlie An- |
derson kept them going pretty well,

 

 

Miss Marjorie (Pill)) Boyer,

2 i
and by the time the half hour was former member of Class 35 at Dal-|

up most of them were glad to stop. housie, came down from Acadia to
There seems to be a good chance for )spend the week-end with her old
a softball team this year. friends at the Hall.

The first pool tournament of the
year has been organized by John| Miss Barbara Trites and Miss
Jarvie, the chairman of the billiard | Jean Robertson have decided to give
committee this year. It is just, get- \Bridgewater a break. They’ll’ be
ting under way and undoubtedly |back on Sunday night.
more will be told next week of. the |,
prowess of “Sock ’em hard” Milner,
and the sweepstakes favorite King
John. — fh |

The Pine Hill student body officers were elected at the first regular |

 

 

Peg Allen have gone to New Glasgow for the week end.

 

Hall, After dinner, in the evening,
when everybody is sitting around
the fire, slips of paper are passed
around, three to a girl, on each of
which she writes the name of an
eligible male. All papers are tossed

two weeks ago. They are as follows:

Pope, Charlie Anderson; Cardinal,
Fraser Nicholson; Bishop, Paynter
MacIntosh; Scribe, George MacLean;
Deacons, E. Baird, Wilmur Fraser,
Bill Pace, Cecil Webber, John King.

The privilege of running the Pine |™to @ hat, each person may draw
Hill store was hotly contested by | out one slip. And by the process of
the rival firms of Milner and Beve- ,
ridge and Robb and Robb. After the shall be asked to the Shirreff Hall

theologues and gentlemen residents | Dance.

had been both secretly canvassed |
and directly appealed to, the | TRIALS FOR
GHOST TRAIN

went to the ancient and honourable
The trials for “The Ghost Train”

elimination, boys, it is decided who

firm of Robb, Robb and Robb.

The first Pine Hill dance of the |
season was held on Monday, October |

29, at the Green Lantern, after John | 4re now in full swing. Two trial re-| nomic independence.

Jarvie had sweated a considerable | hearsals have been held and many

amount of blood. The dance was a| turned up to try for the roles, Theks!

 

howling success most of the howling | Were some old faces and some new
being done by Murray MacDonald | ones—reliables and_ possibilities,
and Allan Beveridge. We must not, Here’s a list of those at, the first
expect too much from Cape Breton /Yrehearsals: Ruth Wiegand, Erin
but that the fair name of Truro| Russell, Edith Cox, Margo Mcshould be dragged thus in the dirt | Manus, Ruth Skaling, Lou Morrison,
is shameful. However, in spite of Evelyn Embree, Kay Finlayson,
their efforts most of those present |Julius Foster, Phil Stein, Murray
enjoyed themselves. yan, Al Reid, Dave Maclellan, Len
The special numbers in exhibition Kitz, Sam Rothfield, Sandy Macdancing provided by Adam Kennedy herson, Ernie _Higgins, Earle
were appreciated by all except his | Fraser, Irving Ping, Henry Rear
partner for the time being. |don, Elwyn Hughes, Len Goldberg,

D Ki i A » ¢ | Howard Drover.
Seo sng, and; indeed most af | As yet no definite cast has been

the residents had their slumbers ree fee and there will be one. more
a ee ee an, Hallow's hig rehearsal before this is done,
ce = ta ee ; y Many! so there is still opportunity for
‘es ; bt vr e Te = a si wisdom more students to try for roles in
i et, SETAE RAED EDY Tihia production The next rehearsal
personal interference, and towards date will be posted shortly
morning our Holy Father of forbid- Though many have turned out for
one features, managed to quell any! the dramatic side of the play, very
further hilary at least. of an audible few have signified their intention of

nature, joining the stage crew in its im
ey: portant work of train and storm effects back stage. The technical effects of “The Ghost Train” are quite

 

 

at Dalhousie University

No.

 

 

|Seniors Win From Juniors

In Bennett Shield Debate

“Resolved that co-education is a failure” was the subject

of the first-class debate held in Room 4 of the Arts Building at

Studley last Thursday. This was the first debate of the College
year in the Bennett’ Shield’ Competition Series. ‘The Seniors,
represented by Miss Flo Keniston and Bernard Andrews, were
awarded the decision. The Juniors, upholding the affirmative
subject, were Miss Elizabeth Ballem and Wilfred Burchell.
Judges were Professors Nichols, Mercer, and Pearson. Forty
Shirreff Hall Notes

   
  
   
   
  

Miss Janet MacGregor and Miss |!

During the rainy season a new|!
pastime has been invented at the|!

President Stanley
Attends Conference

President Stanley left recently for
Washington, where he will attend a
Conference of Universities as a representative of the Canadian Universities. President Stanley, formerly
the vice-president of the Association,
is now president and it is in this
capacity that he is taking an active
part in the conference. Dr. Stanley
is the only delegate from Canada.

difficult and will require a crew of
about ten men, each of whom will
have a definite part in making the
“Ghost Train” go.

It will be remembered also that
both back and front stage work
counts towards the Glee Club “D”,
which is awarded in the year that
it is won,

Get in touch with some member
of the Glee Club Executive if you
are interested in putting the “go”
in the “Ghost Train”.

 

four attended this battle of words, gestures and arguments, a
very encouraging feature in view of the fact that at the same
hour one or two other functions were being held.

Wilfred Burchell was first speaker
As a supporter of the resolution he
stated that men and women set
their own standards. Women attending men’s colleges obtain men’s
education, which is undesirable.
Segregation for education is an asset, not a liability. Men and women
in college without any real objective
in view create a serious problem.

The speaker declared that the pres- | 9

ence of women in classrooms seviously detract from the value of lectures. The fact that no female students are allowed to attend Harvard,
Yale, and Princeton shows that coeducation is a recognized failure.
The decreasing number of students
attending co-educational institutions
also emphasizes that fact,

Bernard, Andrews traced the history of Co-education after having

Sodales To-Night
Meeting tonight at 8,00 in the
‘Munro Room, Sodales Society

    
     
     

English debaters who recently

‘claimed Canadians take no in
terest in politics. Roy Laurence

and Fraser Bentley, both priyate

secretaries to Mr. King, will at
tack the Bennett Government,

which has requested Horace Han
son and Bill Davis to prepare a

brief in its defence.

esi
defined its meaning. Co-education
spread rapodly after the time of
Pestalozzi in the early eighteenth
century An impetus was given. to
its spread by the Industrial Revolution which paved the way by showing that women could obtain ecoIt was impossible and unreasonable to duplicate
educational facilities in secondary
schools and colleges.

will take up the challenge of the

 

NOTICE!

SMOKING IN GYM.

On Monday, Novy. 19, new smeking rules will go into effect in the
gymnasium when the folowing
notice will be posted:

1, STAGE—No smoking is permitted on the stage CGincluding
rooms off) at anytime.
REMAINDER OF FIRS?P
FLOOR (including lobbies, offices
and main floor)—No smoking is
permitted here except during a
dance or after any other social
function. q

Any student violating the above
regulation will. be reported to the
Students’ Council and will be
liable to a fine of $2.00. ~~

This notice, the Gazette is informed, is the result of the last
meeting of the Students’ and

Senate Gymnasium Committee. and
_ will be enforced. Glee Club. dances

are included as functions at which

smoking is permitted. errr
The Gazette will carry next

week the names of the first stu
dents to be caught and fined.

and debate. “Co-education takes the

simper out. of young women and
roughness out. of young men.” By
exchanging ideas, they have a great
deal to learn. Women exert, an influence on men and vice versa, thus
preventing extremes. Intellectual understanding enables people to meet
in the industrial world on a natural
basis. Co-education is of inestimable
value for children, in the home. The
artificiality of the Victorian era is.
passing, due chiefly to co-education,

After the rebuttals, and while the
judges were deliberating, the chairman called upon Bruce Ferguson
and Chester LeGrow to give the

Co-education|Cape Breton and Newfoundland, at
began in England first in the sec-|titudes upon the momentous ques
ondary schools and spread rapidly
to colleges. Society has recognized
its value by expanding its use. By
equipping men and women along similar lines the result is greater understanding. Co-educational institutions give a greater stimulus to
women to excel. The refining influence of women has raised the moral
tone.

Miss Ballem, in one of the best
addresses of the day, upheld the
resolution. She stated that she
was forced by circumstances to attend a co-educational institution.
Restraint is one of the characteristics in such an institution, There is
a lack of freedom in discussion, and
as a result smoothness is disturbed.
Co-education has arisen from a desire to economize; women are placed
in men’s educational institutions for
the sake of economy To professional school students, co-education
is a recognized failure. The figures
from four important American colleges show twice as many women
as men, thus showing that men prefer independent colleges, fearing

(and Juniors

 

tion of co-education. With incomparable audacity, they evaded the
issue almost entirely.

The second debate in the Bennett
Shield Series will bring together
representatives of the Sophomores
This debate will.in all
probability be held in about two.
weeks’ time.

Shirreff Hall At Home

Last evening, in the absence of >
President Stanley, the girls of; Shirreff Hall decided to Stage their annual At Home. They did—and a °
more successful dance would, be
hard to find, Everybody had a good
time, even the guests.

The chosen males all admit. that
the girls, too, can put on a dance.
The chaperones were conspicuous by
their numbers. They included Dr.
Hayes and Mrs. (Dr.) Pelluet Hayes,
Professor and Mrs. Stewart, Professor and Mrs. Nichols, Professors
Wilson and Adshead, The committee
in charge made it rather suggestive

 

that they will become “feminized’’ by selecting the date for their. At

and refined.

Miss Keniston, in supplementing
the arguments of Andrews, said
that co-education enables people to
adjust themselves in situations in
which they find themselves. Students
learn to understand one another
through class discussion, common in
terest in games, through dramatics

Home, just following the President’s
departure for Washington. We hope
the entire affair went off.as smooth- »
ly as if Dr. Stanley had been there.
Now that, the second great social
event of the season has passed (the
first being the tea dance), the males

can ease off a bit until shortly before Delta Gamma.

 
     
        
   
     

on

nded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”

_ EDITORIAL STAFF

; Editors Pi i
F. E. GOUDGE
B. 6295
_. News Editor
' ARTHUR-MERKEL ai 0 7B. 6108

: . a ~~ .§ports Editor
RT BILL DAVIS

"Business Manager Assistant |
ie : aa ‘WALLACE-ROWLINGS °° _ ARTHUR MEAGHER

ae < B: 2886

i.
rt ¥

   

i ihe tag 9°

‘
Tey 5
oa!

eh
nt

ap Site \\
e *} =

   
 

Lisi >
; ‘cay

‘

Ve
ie
ee

‘EVOLUTION ©

poly 1e following i itorial comment ‘on the current history text book
u ee eaten Bs Scones and Law student:

a aad rhs . ; aa

, 7+ ‘Nova Scotia is coming into her own in the way of publicity,

- _ aecording to the diverse newspaper articles, both local and non

oo local, concerning the “evolutionary textbook problem”. Un
fortunately this type of publicity is not particularly desirable.
It is difficult to believe that any serious-minded individual

- jiving in this age would attempt to refute and cast aside as

ie
ui

 

 
 

ar nt
ato %

7s ee

?

  
  

  
    
  
   

.
0 4
es P|

ws
i

  

worthless, the vast amount of scientific data which has been
accumulated to illustrate and substantiate the Evolutionary
) But such seems to be the case in certain parts of

he'd

this province. Wels Pal
at a Scientifically, evolution is a law of nature just as the law
of gravitation is proved and established. Just as the theory of
gravitation was an inference derived from facts and has stood
to explain and rationalize other facts so evolution was offered as
a means of explaining facts and has served to make intelligible
____ things which on other grounds were quite obscure.. Thus emay bryology, comparative anatomy, and geographic distribution all
become vividly clear when viewed from the evolutionary standpoint, but when viewed from any other they become left in the
utmost confusion. Thus the hypothesis of organic evolution
does everything a good hypothesis should do—it works, and as
long as it continues to explain and agree with new facts, to
Bir ec: 3 withstand the tests to which it is put, it must be considered to
pres be valid, Not only does the hypothesis work but with the ac eumulation of further facts, the weight of evidence tends to
, overcome any intelligent opposition by it’s sheer mass.
i There are no rival hypotheses except the outworn and dis_* diseredited doctrine of special creation. If however any body
mcilable with the doctrine of evolution were to
then the .

; h th
agree with the new facts. What a sensation would

4

      
 

~

a.

   

s
ont
©
4
a

  
 

    
    
  
  
    

 
 

   

  

the 1eory would have to be abandoned or
ree.

be ereated in the world of science if anyone could today bring
een) iE ht some definite evidence to refute the evolutionary theory.
- A man could become famous overnight if he were successful in
-___— disproving or even seriously weakening the principle of evoluee of scientific invesigators and endeavour to bring to light those
Be Bo. far elusive facts and thus help to overthrow the evolution
So theory.
1 oe i orsaont there are no known facts contrary to evolution
: and scores of facts that accord with it. Could any scientific
principle be more firmly established than this? From the standpoint of Science, we may consider that evolution is proved.

Ly

By on pe Seis Il

    
   
 

  

re

 
 
 
 

‘ei

- A ridiculous side of human nature was shown last week
when, urged on by the press, certain individuals sought to have
x a text-book removed from the high school curriculum because
“ it referred to the existence of the theory of evolution. Fearful
lest the young of the land be blighted with the knowledge that
some writers disbelieved the Biblical story of creation, they
> stated vigorously its only result would be a moral breakdown
ay of the nation. One stalwart of the movement went so far as

to predict the breakup of the British Empire if this immoral
teaching of Nova Scotia boys and girls were to continue.
- Quite apart from the newspapers, whom we suggest were
mest interested in giving prominence to the story to promote
their own interests, it is surprising that over a thousand people
would sign a petition in an attempt to blind young students to
what has become every-day knowledge. Have the teachings of
the Galilean so lost their power as to be endangered by a few
lines in a school-book?
The inconsistency of the matter is obvious.

 

 

If school
children should not be taught there is doubt as to the beginning
_ of man according to Genesis, then it is also true they should
not be taught that long ago Egyptians worshipped many gods,
that the Greeks and Romans prostrated themselves before
Zeus and Jupiter. To be logical, all ancient histories would have
to be banished and with them, Greek and Latin textbooks. Even
histories of England would have to be altered lest it be known
the: savage Anglo-Saxons were pagans. The knowledge that
_ the Empire contains worshippers of Mohammed, Confucius and
_ Buddha would have to be rigorously suppressed.

i. We wonder why it is that education must always be ham_ pered by those who follow the old order. Gallileo, many years
_-_—-—sago, was forced to renounce his opinions; school children here
pars, are asked to be denied an opportunity to even form an opinion.
Bow - In his famous essay on education, Cardinal Newman
____ claimed theology should be taught in every university. But he
urged it in the belief that education is universal, that it includes all knowledge. Surely, if the universities may teach of
ee evolution and even belief in evolution, should not those who
__- May never have an opportunity to attend university. be allowed
ee 5

   
 
   
  
    
   
   
   
   
  
        
    
   
  
   
   
   

t

- é as *
ak ‘ a - ~
: fie a ap a S. ee
.
~ ' =

io
pe

¢

=,

ae
{ te ee

4

   

aA
knowledge of it? ,
___-__. the energy of those who would erase this study is most
amazing. Transformed into other channels—the urging of the
pursuit of Christian life, in fighting poverty, outlawry and vice
_ —it could do much. But as it is being used, it means only re. ression. The sponsors of the movemient are.as illogical with
true education as are those in Germany today who urge a GeraR manic religion, an enforced belief in the old pagan gods.

a


DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

NO ARMISTICE.

“Let us remember them! Let us
remember their spirit of sacrifice
and service; let us make that spirit
a part of ourselves and use it in the
struggle for peace.”
Such phrases elicit in us a certain feeling of reverence and awe;
we must admit, however, that only
too often they do not sink home, do
not penetrate the fog of unthinkingness that envelops our minds. We
hear the words and say, -perhaps:
“Yes, the ideal of peace is fine; we
would like to have peace.”
We do not understand what “remembering them” means. It means
clearing our minds of the inherited
debris’ of centuries. We must be
brave and face the rigors of thought.
Let us no longer be swayed’ by

nationalistic sentiments which are’

unnatural and chauvinistic, accumulated in the jingoistic lower school;
let us forget the fable that the best
way to end war is to prepare for it,
(banish the C. O..T. C.) Let us
destroy the false logic of the militarist’s arguments, “they shame the
human mind”. The beautiful theory
that war was beautiful and glorious
was slain by the gang of brutal
facts of 1914-18. “How sweet and
glorious it is to die for one’s country!’ — by being gassed — sublime
ireny!

War is not man’s natural state
or inevitable. It is a monster that
can be defeated by the intelligence
of man—if this is not so, it would
be well for us all to step in a lethal
chamber today. The cause of war,
most informed writers agree, is
primarily excessive nationalism, encouraged by power-seeking governments, which in turn are partly
spurred on by the forces of capitalism. What can we do? Surely we
can at least strive ourselves and
induce others to struggle with us
for internationalism, “Socialism”,
and peace. The endeavour sometimes seems futile; humanity may
be heading towards inevitable destruction. But if we are men, we
must at least try to impede the

progress of the Juggernaut. Let
there be no armistice in the
struggle.

 

CASTING REFLECTIONS.

Resentment welled in our hearts
when, on perusing the latest edition
of Dalhousie Gazette, we found
some ignoramus delving into the
private affairs of one who has but
recently brought added honor and
fame to his beloved Alma Mater,
Dalhousie, namely, Mr. F. K. Stewart. Dalhousie congratulates Mr.
Stewart and assures him that she
is looking forward to his achievement “over there”.

In future let there be no such reflections cast upon those who really
have done something worth while
for their Alma Mater.

 

POLITICS AGAIN.

Sodales will this week spring into
prominence with one of those good
old political debates. Shades of yesterday!

The Liberals, guided by the man
of the hour, Lord Laurence, will attempt to show one and all just why
Mr. Bennett’s Conservative Government should not be where it is. But
Bennett’s right hand man, Chief
Justice Hanson; will have
thing to say about that. A good
deal of entertainment should be
forthcoming as, the debate being run
under parliamentary rules, there
will be an opportunity for all to express their views. Truly it
lawyers’ night.

some
is a

 

NUDISM IN THE GYM.

Complaints have been made of the |

attire that male students wear when
participating in basketball. There js
real cause for complaint here, for
one must realize that Dal is a coeducational institution. The girls
have been restricted as to attire—
why not the men? We certainly do
not want our males going native.
Heaven forbid! However, looking at
this complaint sensibly, we think it
only right in fairness to the opposite
sex that the men should take more
care in their gym attire. A. singlet
or sweat shirt (any color) would do
the trick. A word ‘to the wise is
sufficient.

—— nae

 

THE ST. LAWRENCE SEAWAY.

President Roosevelt, in a_ statement issued shortly after the National elections, has once more appealed to his Congressional henchmen to ratify the proposed St. Lawrence Deep Waterway Treaty. Congress at the last Assembly failed to
approve of the Treaty. This was a
significant fact because it marked a
turning point in the Roosevelt administration. It was the first time
that the New Dealers found a split
in their ranks. It will be remembered that after this there ensued
the acrimonious debate on the “Air
Mail. Contracts”, stabilization of the
dollar and many other recovery projects. Now that Roosevelt has announced certain modifications in the
treaty and now that he has a more
definite mandate from the people, it
will be interesting to note the course
Congress will take. If Congress
supports such a Treaty it will afford
interesting speculation to wonder
what Canada will do.

There never has been a _ subject
presented to the Canadian public
which called for deeper thought or
saner policy. The question is of
national importance and should be
viewed from such a stand, regardless of sectional interests and parliamentary lobbying. We should ask
ourselves if the waterway will give
to Canada all that is claimed for it.
The proposal and benefits appear in
the Treaty signed at Washington,
July 18, 1932.

“....-The construction of a deep
sea waterway, not less’ than
twenty feet in depth, for navigation from the interior of the continent of North America through
the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence river to the sea, with the development of the waterpower incidental thereto, would result in
marked and enduring benefits to
the agricultural, manufacturing
and commercial interests of both
countries”. ...

In considering this question we
must remember that such a treaty
will have an initial cost of over 150
million dollars. We must remember
also that in the expending of public
funds estimates are always held to
a minimum. The Welland Canal
cost over twice its estimated cost.
The Panama project capped the list
of great expenditures when it tripled
the estimated costs. A perusal of
other great experiments will show
that the estimated is always the
minimum.

Today Canada is struggling with
one of the greatest percapita debts
in the world, roughly speaking about
$250.00 per head. Our revenue has
been curtailed and there is no money
in the treasury. Can Canada in such
circumstances afford such an outlay? Premier Bennett signed the
Treaty, but he has said on many an
occasion that he would like to see
more money spent, but where will it
come from? Likewise, from coast
to coast this country in the past has
seen public money squandered in
needless experiments which serve as

G COMMENT

mute witnesses to the collossal
wastes and demands of “political
rackets”.

It is safe to assume that. Eastern
Canada is almost solidly united upon the defeat of the issue, as they
can see no benefit accruing to them
from such an outlay. Montreal Says
that she will receive only the smoke
of passing ships, and the Atlantic
ports on the other hand entertain
the thought of dwindling port clearances Likewise there is the question of competition to the railways.
The Grand Trunk was built to serve
the very purpose of the proposed
Seaway—to provide an outlet for
Canadian wheat. Up to the present
this railway has never been fully
utilized for this purpose. The Canadian Government railways constitute one of our gravest problems,
and now we have a scheme whose
very purpose will supply competition and further increase the deficits
of these roads. To date the railways have cost the taxpayers of
this country over $2,895,799,134, and
the yearly debt amounts to over
$50,000,000. These are astronomical
figures for a young and sparcely
populated country. Can Canada then
entertain a proposal that will tend
to further increase ‘this staggering
load?

The supporters of this plan have
(CONTINUED: ON PAGE THREE)

= ——S

 

SOMETIMES

I THINK

 

Sometimes I think that we have lived before:
That you were Egypt’s queen and I the slave
Who humbly knelt at your command to bathe
Small feet with Persia’s rare and scented store.
Perhaps in other days, with fiercest joy,

I slaved and struggled hard upon the oar,

Proud just to be upon the ship that bore

A fairer Helen to another Troy.

Thus through the ages you have loved and died
With Paris or Octavius by your side,

Your fame has spread through many foreign lands,

Across the seas and up the muddy Nile— PL. Beet

While I still slave to keep you in the style

You think your royal heritage demands.

 

‘MOVIE. REVIEW

 

WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS

The subject most under discussion
this week, both by the students and
professors of the university, is the
movie ‘What Every Woman Knows’,
based upon the play of the same
name by Sir James Barrie.

Generally, the movie was a good
presentation of a delicately wrought
and evenly balanced play. It naturally lost many of Barrie’s little
whimsicalities; the informal “stage
directions” which set the reader
down, without any preamble, into the
middle of the Wylie family were replaced by a necessary building-up of
atmosphere that gave the spectator
a sense of hurriedly scrambled environment. The picture was in great
danger at one point of degenerating
into low comedy: when the actors
made great play of saying goodnight and of stamping their feet to
indicate that they were retiring to
bed. This by-play was not in the
original at all. It almost reminded
one of Laurel and Hardy’s mystifying schemes of deceit, but the scene
was saved fortunately by the earnest
simplicity of John Shand as he set
his books in order. There were some
other discrepancies in the plot, notably where Maggie’s improval of
John’s speech and the Comtesse giving it to Venables after the first had
not met with approbation was altered to Maggie’s use of John’s letter
of resignation for a far nobler purpose than his own intention. The
latter was more startling, more|
dramatic, but less natural. |

The characterization in the movie |
was good, especially that of Helen
Hayes, although it was rather ludi-.
crous to see a woman whose domin- |
ant trait was charm take the part
of one whose charm, if any, was |
elusive. Otherwise, Miss Hayes was |
perfect: every gesture, every tone of
voice was entirely fitting.
Shand was equally well-portrayed by |
Mr. Adherne whose ability to keep |
a straight face under the most try- |

* .
ing circumstances was remarkable. |

John |

 

The portrayal of the, rest, of the
Wylie family had but, one defect—
and that was common, to all except
James, who, indeed, emphasized it—
they seemed to belong to a/ higher |
class than their complaint of lack
of education would lead one to expect. Alick was too firm, too controlled to “cry a little, because there
is no more work for him to do for ,
ever and ever’; David looked more
the educated country-squire than
what he really was. In the movie,
James was merely an instrument for
pathos—only his pathetic quality was
left, and this placed him so far beneath his father and his brother as
to make him unreal and more than
faintly ridiculous.

The play is finer than the movie.
If you were to see the movie first
and then read the play, you would
miss the real import of it—its gently-laughing humour and quiet appeal—for your conception would be
colored by the picture and for you,
there would be no Scotchmen with
“inquisitive little blue eyes that
seem to be always totting up the
price of things.” But if, on the contrary, you read the play and then
saw the movie, you could invest the
actors with “Barrie’s special quality.” The movie was good, so good
that we applaud the directors and
ask for more.

The |
Canterbury Room

While students were at
home during the summer
The Green Lantern made
a decided change in decorating The Canterbury
Room. Cosy and very

nice,

The Green Lantern

 

 

FORMAL EVENING WEAR

 

“THE STUDENTS’
PASSES

CLOTHES SHOP”
ALCNG

A SCOOP

IN TUXEDOS

A good quality

cloth, beautifully tailored

Complete with Silk Vest

The Three Pieces tor

$22.50

Accessories to match include Dress Shirts.

Scarves, Ties, Hats, Braces and Gloves.

     

 

Discount OF TEN PER CENT. ON ALL REGULAR LINES

Shane's Men’s Shop

Thirty Spring Garden Road

 

 
 
   
      
     
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

 

= = ,
ee a aad

a ————————_—

ae

the grim horror of 1914-1919.
the same time preparations are be
a. New arrivals in handpoe bags for Milady are
+ __ arresting in style, ma| terial, and color.

iad a

Evening bags, too
 —timely gifts.

| Henry Birks & Son

- Limited

ge a ee
a ‘ =

i z _

hy “

¢

.

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

ote Ht oi
Exams in four weeks.

 

The result, of Tuesday’s elections

in the United States shows beyond

a doubt that the people have a
great faith.in Roosevelt and the
N. R. A. This is really the first
time the populace have had an opportunity: to show their opinion.
Maybe it will change in the next

election.

 

_ The present upheaval throughout
the province concerning the new
Grade XI History book, “The Story

of Civilization”, reveals the startling

paradox that many people strenuously object to things being taught
in public school which are taught in
College. If these people think that
students do not change their ideas
of their high school days they are
mistaken,

 

Poppies are sold to remind one of
At

ing made in Germany and France

: to secure control of the Saar, prep
aration which can only result in

: _ bloodshed. The world forgets easily,
Ne _ truly an anomalous situation.

 

4 :
sia. ‘The football season is over at

Jalhousie with no creditable record
it.. It would seem that

oy th yy is a dying game here. May
   

a .
See

'
i

   
        

again with a book that
_ characterized by the name, “From

   
     
   
 

a4

the talk of spending the large
appropriation which now goes to
football on something else such as

7 Fs fund for a swimming pool is not
‘such a bad idea.

Robert Benchly comes to the fore
is truly

Bad to Worse”. The book is undoubtedly a masterpiece of humor,
versatility, diction and taste.

 

A lot of fellows beside Peter, the
pumpkin eater, had a wife they

Fen’ couldn’t keep.

The number of suits filed in the
Morro Castle disaster totals 300.
No wonder the owners will find the
$1,400,000 collected in insurance

very handy when the time comes to

pay claims.

FRASER BROS.
TAX]

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

B-6070

| MacLeod, Balcom
Limited

DRUGGIST

| Halifax and Bedford
oer ale Taiah

 

CHAPTER VII.
1. And so it came to pass that

| in the Kolums of the GazYette one

so-called Grad wrote unto the
learned Editor about the Year
Bhuk. His words were writ with
wisdom as he spoke of the need for
a Year Book. At last the Studes
have come into their own, and they
roundly censure the Noble Counsel
of Studes, who spendeth cash for
nought, but who refuseth to give
the Studes at least one thing that
they really want. The Studes have
need for a Year Bhuk, at least so
they may have some thing to look
back and point out that this was

how they lived their life at The
Little College by the Sea.

"Tis time
that the Counsel awake to the needs
of the Studes, who are beginning to
feel that they are throwing their

|ten Bhuks to the Winds each year.

The learned Grad. asks.that there be
light in the minds of. the Learned
Counsel, instead. of their minds be
jing light.

2. Then in the Battle of the Pigskin—the pet child of the learned
Counsel (the Warriors of the Grid),
found themselves in the. Cellar, far
away from their rivals, the Whanderers and the Axemhen. All the
teachings of the great Makkartie
gone to waste; wasted because the
Warriors of the Lande of Dal refuseth to listen to their Master.
They broke training by carousing
far unto the night, forgetting that
when a Mhan pledges himself to his
Alma Mater he must be _ noble
enough to forsake some of the
Worldly Pleasures. The warriors
even forgot to come out to practice,
they knew too much, and they were
the Victeems of their own brains.
The Counsel petted their little Child
with Dollars which served only to
swell the warriors’ heads — which
even became too large to fit between
the Goal Posts.

3. In the Fortress of Shee-ReffYawl, there could be seen a large
gathering of Whomen drawing lots
to pick unto themselves a Mhan for
the big event of their lives—the
Shee-Reff-Yall Bawl—the one time
in their Lives when they can stay
to the end of a Partee. There could
be seen whomen of the Krand-Yell,
Kheniston, and Skaleng tribes, and
other fortunates looking on and
smiling, for they had their Mhen
salted away. Only the less fortunate
must draw the Lats. In the meantime the Mhen await the decision at
a distance, and watch for the Maleman to bring unto them the famous
ecard bearing the bid to come unto
the Fortress where the women are
kind, and where the men spend their
time trying to find out “what kind”.

4. Then there came unto the
Lande of Dal another Big Socheel
Event—the Feaste of the Law-Yers,
where all, young and old alike, come
in vast numbers to celebrate. There
could be seen Vince of the Makdonals tribe, now leader of the
Lande of Law, out in full Regalia.
And there too was Crowse and
Weelis, who are rarely ever seen at
carousals, while Churtess too was
happy at his first Law-Yers’ Dance
in the Lande of Dal. All the lads
from Hhansson to Chonnyer were in
the best of spirits, while many who
are never a prey to temptation left
their Bhuks and drank of Nectar or
finer Spirits, so that Happiness may
reign Supreme. Even the lawyers
too can sometimes find ways to
break the Laws.

5. And, too, it came to pass in
another corner of the Forrest the
Meds were making plans for their
Skeleton Bawl. They could not be
outdone by their rivals, and so their
plans went ahead in great style.

| But, unlike the Law-Yers, the Med
|must pay for his Good Times, and

| before he could into happy days, he
_had to pass through very dark times.
For had not Mayen-Land the Lean
given notice unto the First and
Second Year Mhen that Queezes in

Anat-Omee must come first. A Med’s

first duty is to learn, And thus pic
turing the days that were to come,
a lighter

the Med sat down with
heart to burn the midnight oil.

   

Halifax Transfer
eo B. 7138

-_—_—_———

  

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Department
of Erotics

SOLILOQUY.

She is dying. The doctor shook
his head as he took his hat and said
it wouldn’t be long. And then he
went away. He could do nothing.

Dying? Why, she has been dying for eighteen years. No, it is
nineteen — our silver anniversary
would be in June. But she won’t be
here to observe it with me as she
did our others—just we two, here,
alone. She will be dead, and [——

I wonder if it will take me long
to forget? Her voice? Yes, I'll
soon forget it, for she never spoke
a great deal. Her slender form and
composed features? Yes, for I really
only saw her when I came home at
night, and she preferred to sit in
the shadows before retiring early.
She was always too tired to go out
with me. Still, she was beautiful in
her : aiearuty—iuat like one of her
lilies.

~I can see the day we were married. How happy and gay we were!
What plans we had for the future!
How were we to know that Death
was to mark her for his own? She
never recovered from the baby’s
death--I often half-wished she might
have died with him, for life has held
no meaning for her since.

I wonder if she ever really loved
me? Or did she just love the child

 

{that might have been hers to shower

 

her affections upon? But I won’t
ask her—not now. No, I will go out
to the garden and gather an armful
of roses—those deep-red roses which
she tended so lovingly—and I will
take them up to where she is
patiently lying in her cool, white
bed—everything about her was cool
and clean and white, it seems—and
I will place them beside her bed—
she wouldn’t want them on it, for
the dew would soil the cover—and I
will take her hand—being careful
not to squeeze it very hard—and I
will say to her:

“Tm not sorry that I married you.
You have been faithful to me—I
only wish that I could say the same
for myself, ‘but you know I can’t.
You have always seemed part of our
home—something that was always
here, ready to greet me quietly when
I came in. I'll never forget your
unmurmuring patience, your candid
eyes, your peaceful face as you went
on living day by day, waiting only
for this time to come.

“You have taught me the lesson
of the beauty in fidelity. You have
shown me greater courage than I
ever thought any woman could possess. You have shown me beauty,
faith and patience. But soon your
pain will be over and the death for
which you have prayed and waited
long will come. And I know you
will be glad.

“But before we say good-bye forever, | want you to kiss me again
as you kissed me on our wedding
night—not the cool kiss of habit
you have given me every morning
when I leave the house. It will leave
me with a tangible memory of you
—something which I can recall in
the years to come when I shall return at night to find only an empty
house. I won’t marry again—lI could

never adjust myself to another, |

warmer woman after having been
with you for these twenty years.
Lenore, will you kiss me?”

She would have been wistfully
looking at her rosés all the time I
was talking, then she would turn
and look calmly at me, without émotion, and perhaps she will sadly
smile and permit me to kiss her
Then I will leave her room and
softly close the door behind me—
she never could bear to hear
shut noisily.

one

ee

THE FOURTH BOOK OF BUNK | STUDENTS’ FOR

 

Editor Dalhousie Gazette:

Sir,—The letter by “Graduate”,
published in your last issue, expresses an opinion upon a _ subject
which, as the writer suggests, is at
present subject to much student discussion.

Whether or not we should have a
Year Book, as suggested by “Graduate” last week, is not a matter of
opinion; it should be clear that the
Year Book is not only impractical
but valueless. The reason for its
impracticability is a financial one.

Much has been said by the graduating class, who want the Year
Book, about the extravagance of the
Year Books of other years, and the
plea is that a cheaper book will do.

However, following the same plea
last year, an attempt was made,
under capable management, to’ produce a cheaper Year Book. The
move was abandoned when another
deficit was forecast.

Now “Graduate” thinks that such
activities as basketball are ‘very expensive. Not that he begrudges
the money thus spent, “but still if it
can be found for them, why can’t
it be found for the Year Book.”
Surely no demand could be more
unreasonable. If he doesn’t begrudge that money, why demand
that more be found for a Year
Book?. When the students’ money
has been allotted to all those activities, according to the nature of
each—well, “that’s all there is:
there is no more.”

It may be said that the Year
Book should have a place on the list,
and other items of expenditures
omitted; it seems to me that in proportion to the purpose it serves, the
Year Book deserves the place at the

bottom of the list. But not so
“Graduate”. “The Year Book,” says
he, “has innumerable advantages

especially for. the graduate. ... It
is his real souvenir of college days.”
Yet do I maintain that the benefits,
the intangible additions to us as
persons, the intrinsic value of the
advantages of four years at Dalhousie are things which can never
be borne away on paper. College
life forms a link in our chain of ex
‘perience, which no account of the

prowess of our classmates or ourselves can ever make stronger.
Rather, in later years will such
an account rob our memories of
their mellowed charm by presenting
ourselves as we were to us when
our ideas have become more rationalized. It is not the tangible evidence of your attendance at a university but the part that university
played in your life that counts. You
may have gone to another college
before coming to Dal; you may go
on to another after you leave; but
the factor which will determine your
leaning toward one rather than another, is that particular college’s
place in your life—not its diplomas
Satan patinavadlipninteganinsesteandhiighe emanate scbicibied sais

And when she is dead, I will order a coffin. Yes, that would be
the most appropriate. And they
will bury her and I will try to forget—but I know I never shall.

 

The above is a quotation from
“What Morons Do”, by Church, the
new text for our class in Erotics 5,
“The Pitfall of Marriage and How
to Avoid It”. This moron married
the frozen, iceberg type of female
and suffered for it for twenty years.
It may true that still waters run
deep and that meek girls are likely
to have had the most experience,
but there is a difference between
meekness and frigidity.

 

Our thought for the week: No,
Gladys, a harum searum is not a
fellow who annoys the Sultan’s
wives.

Erotically yours,
DIXIE DOT.

 

   
       
      
      

JERRY NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA.
Tickets: Couple, $3.00; Single, $2.00.

ee aii?
a ee ee ee ee 8 eee
Ee

Page Three

 

or its Year Books.

Thus, if the graduating class want
to show their college spirit, let
them do so by foregoing the satisfaction of their own egotistical desires and not attempting to foist
upon their successors a deficit for
something which is superficially
worthless and altogether impractical.

GRADUATING.

Comment-
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)

not yét demonstrated that the saying in transportation costs will pay
for the interest on the investment.

One justification advanced for the
proposal is that it will produce additional hydro-electric power. At
present this does not seem to be
warranted and will probably result
in an over-production which will
prejudice privately. owned power
projects. Ontario has her own surplus of power now, and must we
forget that -Beauharnois is still
seeking some~ outlet for its oversupply.

All provinces of Canada are vitally concerned with this proposal, but
so far only one—Ontario—has been
approached. The Canadian Government has the constitutional authority
to carry out the obligations of a
treaty, but not the authority to
make treaties itself which will affect every province within the Empire. The Saint John Board of
Trade emphasized this constitutional
point in its letter of protest to the
Government, “Even courtesy demands that the Government take the
issue to all the provinces, not to
Ontario alone, as well as the British
Government.”

The Waterways plan would not
shorten by one mile the present
haulage from inland to lakehead.
Today a farmer in middle Saskatchewan can ship his wheat as
cheaply via Vancouver to the United
Kingdom as he can via the St. Lawrence route. The same rail rate applies to lakehead or seaport, that is,
to Fort William, or to Churchill,
Vancouver and Prince Rupert. The
shipping east from Fort William to
the United Kingdom is one and a
half cent per bushel more than the
Pacific route. At great expense to
the Canadian taxpayer, Western
Canada has been provided with
many outlets; for example, Churchill, Vancouver, and Prince Rupert,
and now comes another, when what
we have is cheaper and is not yet
fully utilized.

It is also held by some that the
waterways will bear continual cargoes of golden wheat bound for
Europe. But it must be remembered that Europe buys as much wheat
during the months when the river is
frozen as she does when it is navigable.

The present high shipping cost con
sists, principally, of two factors: the
dangers of navigation and the fact
that “empty bottoms” have to be
brought to lakehead. If the Seaway

was completed would these factors |

exist? Is it possible to wipe out
fogs, adverse currents, narrow channels and other natural resistance,
despite the great engineering advances? Because the East is still
the great processing area of Canada
isn’t it logical to assume that boats
will continue to arrive at lakehead
with empty cargoes? Commodities,
whatever they may be, will

ready done so?
The Welland Canal has increased
the traffic facilities by 40 per cent.

Should this, states an eastern writer, |
not satisfy the reqpirements of a |

nation of only ten millions for a
few years to come? What
country in the world can lay claim
‘to ports like Saint John,

MEDICAL SOCIETY BALL

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

DANCING

AT 9.00.

Tickets obtainable from:

 

find |
their outlet when they are demand- |
ed. What products will be imported |
into the lakehead that are not al-|

small |

 

Halifax, |

WEDNESDAY, NOV. ¢8th

  

\

a
MM

      
  
 
  

QUE

 

\

   

BW

NS

Winchester

CIGARETTES
v

Se Se Se Se Ae Ae ee
were

RUTLEcceeREL TTT EA SCLC baGeTec tte TeCheanteetet tbe

The supreme quality of
Winchester Cigarettes
comes from years of
experience in making
fine cigarettes.

Winchester

CIGARETTES
Blended Right!

SAVE THE POKER HANDS

 

BEINN ATE 5 SOS NTS

 

Montreal, Churchill, Vancouver,
Prince Rupert and numerous others?
Well do I remember Sir Alexander
Gibb saying, after he completed his
famous port survey, that “we had
adequate transportation facilities for
years to come, facilities that our
children’s children would be paying
for” These were the words of an
impartial expert on transportation.

The subject is not abstruse in any
detail, but the facts have for some
reason or other been withheld from
the people. This smells like lobbying interests. Let the people of
Canada give consideration to the
ramifications of this proposal. Let
us oppose the ratification of this
treaty until Canada’s financial status
warrants such expenditure, and until it can be shown that traffic volume and power requirements justify
the undertaking, and until the railways have been placed upon a profitable basis and the provinces of
Canada have given approval thereto.

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
i rerB 7376

Service

Lowest Rate to Students.

     
   
     
         
     
    
      
  

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

oO 9 e ©
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

 

J. R. Donahoe, E. W. Barnhill
G. J. LeBrun, Don Sanderson
Henry Ress, Ted Byrne.

 
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
    

  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

 

  

  
 

~

 

~

mT)
mt
Bs
i 1
a |

  
    
   
  
    
   
 

the Law supporters

across for his second try of the

—_

a ig football that

 

Sparrow” were either broke or
Scotch. However, the Law manager
pulled a couple of aces out of his

_ gleeve when he produced. Hal Con
nor; Ken Cougle: and Glyn Smith
who along with Mike Hinchey, who
has carried his team i in all their previous games, formed as formidable
a backfield as the famous.Caledonia

The Med. team’ with : Wishart,
Krebs and Dove in the front line,
were out heeling’ their lighter opponents which gave Faeérstein and

_ Drover opportunities to get in some

nice runs, but» the Law team’ were
tackling hard which kept the play

near center field:

About ten minutes after the start
the Law: scrum began to function
better and with! the ball in their possession, the quarter line began to go
places. In a fast passing bout the
ball travelling from Khattor to
Cougle to Smith to Hinchey and then
to Connor, the big Law’ man found
himself with but Drover and Stenteford to beat, cutting in sharply on
the slippery field) he ran’ the last
twenty-five yards with the Med. boys

- ehasing him.

As the second half got under way
Medicine tried desperately to even
the score, but to no avail, the Law
quarter line was ‘just a little bit too
good and Medicine was kept so busy
stopping dangerous runs, that they
had no time to do any scoring themselves. Following a fumble. by the
Med. fullback, two lawyers raced for
the ball, Connor getting it, to plunge

game. Ike Mercer, who was playing
he) stellar game on the forward. line
. Ike made no mistake |

s, br g th ge scor

ey

én goal. After the Med. score Law

put on steani and Harry Sutherland, |

whose folowing up had been a fea
ture of the Law attack, took the ball}
2 On the Med. twenty-five yard line,
evading several tacklers, he carried

it to the line before passing to Batt,
who grounded the ball, to bring the
Law score to 11. The game ended
with the ball in centre field.

The teams play the second game
on Saturday, and any football fan
who likes a real rugby match should
be present.

Law—McGillivary, fullback; Khat
tor, Cougle, halves; Connor, Smith,
Hinchey, Arab, three-quarters; Roos,

Mercer, Grant; Batt, Baldwin, Sutherland, forwards:

Med.—Stenteford, fullback; Aikens
Strong, halves; Lebrun, Devereau,
Faersteen, Drover, three-quarters;
Dove, Wishart, Krebs, Rankin,
Nicholson, Wilson, forwards.

  
      
     
    
      
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 

 

: eo: io fe ‘Taw isis: |
habe Wishart captalised: by scoring |
a nice try. Krebs missed the kick

Be Modicine. In
Play-Off Game||

by far surpassed eee shown in

 

stars ne Drover, Frank Wishart; Wilson seid Faerstein,
-would have had their money covered, had

it not been ‘thatiall the Med. rooters, with the exception of “Red

Dal Americans Trim |

St: Mary’s Eleven)»

The Dal. American ‘Tigers, -bol‘stered by the: return; of Phil Stein
to the lineup, took. revenge on St.
Mary’s,. who, two, weeks ago held
them. scoreless:by defeating - them}:
26—0. in. an exhibition, tussle last | .:
: ‘The game, as
the score shows,: was a one-sided}:
affair, but.. nevertheless -gave the]:
spectators plenty of thrills through
Saturday afternoon.

out.

The Tigers, scoring on plays that):
carried, them for 30,.40 and 50 yards:
with a series of forward. passes, had,
the Saints completely. baffled.; Coach
Abe Mandelstone,. playing with..a
broken finger tied. up.in splints,
bored through. gaping holes opened
up by the. masterful. thrusts of

Rosenberg and Glorioso:

Stein scored the first: of his three
touchdowns in the first; quarteriwhen
he had: received Krantz’s” forward

pass on the Collegians’ 5 yard line
to complete it for a gain of 40 yards.

Throughout the game costly fum-:
bles. lost. yardage for the Saints, as
they vainly. tried ‘to come’ within |

striking distance of the Tigers:~
In the final periods. Stein and

Krantzmade the remainder of the},
touches, and aided by the. superior
playing of their teammates proved
conclusively that the ‘Tigers far surpassed any of their rivals.in playing.
ability.

Lineup:

Dal — Left end, Gladstone;) left |,
tackle, DuBilier; left guard, Becker;
‘centre, Glorioso; right guard, Rosen
berg;. right. tackle, Allyn; right end,
1é ball sailed cleanly through Green; ,

quarterback, Krantz; .

 

NOTICE ‘i

The MacDonald _ Memorial.
Liibrary is now open in the
evenings for the use of students. It will continue to be
so until after Christmas:

The ; hours are:

WEEK DAYS—

8.50 a.m.- 5.30 p.m.
7.30 p.m. - 10.30 p.m.

SATURDAYS—
8.50 a.m. - 12.30 p.m.

SUNDAYS—
7.30 a.m. - 10.00 p.m.

It is hoped that students
will take advantage of the
extra time.

Doris Pugsley, a Dalhousie graduate of last year, is taking postgraduate work at Toronto University.

 

 

  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  

left |
¢/half, Stein; right half, ‘Miller; full
core ae peers Menictcones “

Girls’
Gets Under Way

7 Eo uoe Gb

‘

to seore.

are available.

“SPORT REVI EW

By TED. CREASE:

After dropping. last Saturday’s game to Halifax United
| the Dalhousie Tigers are the laughingstock of the City League.
It was United’s first win since entering the circuit.

former Dalhousie. athlete,

“Bord”.

Mount Allison and StF. X. haye been. negotiating with
‘the Tigers to arrange exhibition football. games.

The Interfaculty football playoffs promise to provide plenty
of thrills, spills, and good football when those arch rivals, Medicine and Law, clash. Law are the favorites.

The quintettes, led by Don Bauld and Leo Simmonds, are
leading the race for the House Basketball. title.

Rumor has it that an all-star Rugby League team will: be
selected from the senior squad to play the Interfaculty winners.

Coach Anderson is pleased. with the prospects for this
year’s girls’ hoop squad... While Mar Keniston may not participate, such outstanding performers as. Flo Keniston, Isabel
Fraser, Dot Dobson, Shirley Stearns,
‘Jean Brittain, to say nothing of some promising newcomers,

Marg -Woolaver, and

With the big leagues under way, Dalhousie’s ice campaign
is not due to start until after Christmas. Tiger MacKasey,
newly appointed manager, states that a trip to Boston or New
foundland may be arranged for the holidays.

‘the De AnviA.’ GC:

 

Noyember, 1x 19384, .

ee

{United Score First Victory |
of Season—Tie With Tigers |

raced, and..side
 

Despite the fact that thirteen players are out of the game this year.
and that the best: available players are not playing football, the
blame may be laid directly to the students. If the student hody
wants winning teams it must support them. But the great
majority of students consider it beneath. their. dignity to turn
out and cheer. It is they who criticize the most.

Borden Stoddard, the “Flash”,
pulled the season’s: prettiest play ‘to register, the Reds’ only
score against Acadia’on ‘Saturday. ;
‘stepped thirty-five yards: through .the entire Acadia. backfield

The Softball, League.is scheduled. to open Thursday night ae -Com. 1
under the able direction of Vice-President Ernie Richardson of | ATs & Se. 1

Going down to defeat. before the lowly United team on
Saturday, the Dal Tigers finished the league, tied for cellar

position. |

It was a fitting climax to a season marked by the

poorest showing of the team in the history of Dal football.
The game was typical of the games played by the team

United territory and were pressing for

Dal, looking like champions, rushed the play into

a score when the

referee awarded Dal a penalty kick on the United twenty-five

yard line.
up by scoring a pretty goal.

Doug Crease took the kick, putting Dal three points
The Tigers continued to press,

and Thompson, playing the best game of hiS career, was pulled
down ten yards from the line after a sensational sixty yard run.

 

Frosh. And Medicine
In. Scoreless . Draw

In one of the best. games of the

season,. the, Freshmen, showing. un-.

expected strength, held Medicine,
favored to capture the, league, to a
scoreless draw.

Although eliminated from.a play-.

off position, because of games. forfeited, earlier in the season, the

Frosh showed a true fighting spirit,.

and although unable. to score, had
the Medicine team on the defensive
during the whole game...

Wishart and Lebrun played well
for . Medicine. | While the
Frosh team worked hard, it was difficult to pick. any outstanding player
on the team. Medicine was awarded the game because the Freshmen
manager used _ several
players.

ey League

L.. ‘Ds, Bo) Ae bs:
TSR ies.2 $3 Bar ck Shard Bilt
Pidaccwak Sarthe ks se eetewit
24: be Rha Sie d
2.4 8 1h BAS
Frosh. 0) 4 0) Q)- 27 0

While Medicine is favored to take

The Gazette’s all-star City League football team, as listed |4@¥ ™ the play-off, the Law team
below,.is chosen not only because of the ability shown by the| bas the confidence gained by winplayers but also: considering the football,of which they are|™™ their games on the field, while
capable but have shown only rarely:

Forwards: Bent, “D’’;

Sanford,

“A’’; Ball, “D’; Johnson,

SOW Smith, Ue Boyd, “Wy: Duffus, “yy?

Fullback: Bayne, “A”.

Halves: Be Ralston, As Holgate, “A”; Hamilton, “W”’.
Three-Quarters: Young, a
Cotter, O22.

Crosby, Tes Piers, U7 :

 

Basketball

 

Girls’ basketball, with the combined coaching of newly appointed
athletic directress, Margaret Kindle,
and Charlie Anderson, veteran cage
expert, seems due for a revival this
year. The team is to be coached by
Charlie Anderson, while Miss Kindle
is forming a basketball class for the
less experienced players from which
future stars will arise. Dorothy
Dobson, Halifax, will act in the
capacity of playing-manager for the
season.

The following tri-weekly practice
periods have been arranged by Miss
Dobson: Tuesdays, 7.15; Thursdays,
5.00; Saturdays, 12.00.

Of last year’s stars turning out
are Isabel Fraser, prominent also in
tennis; Florence and Martha Keniston, ‘Margaret Woolaver and Dot
Dobson.

Newcomers include Louise Morrison, Evelyn Embrie, Mary McPherson, Darrell Purtill, Billie Oxley,
Shirley Sterns, and Esther Dau
~~ phinee.
A Message To College Men

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a provision for the future, or contemplating the selling
of life insurance as a profession, you would do
well to consider the outstanding sixty-four record

of The Mutual Life of Canada.

Communicate

with our nearest Branch Manager or our Home

Office.

‘Mutual Life Assurance Company

OF CANADA

bg HOME OFFICE — WATERLOO, ONTARIO
pi Established 1869

Mount Allison and Acadia, present
champions, aré the other teams entered in the Intercollegiate League,
with a possibility of an entry from
King’s. Home and home games are
played with each of the other teams,
thus necessitating trips to Sackville
and Wolfville. This is Dalhousie’s
only entry in Intercollegiate Basketball, and it is thereby hoped that the
girls will not let the University
down but bring home the title. In
order to do this the best of players
are needed as well as a large squad
—so all girls who have any knowledge of the game are urgently requested to turn out.

Rprreeeneieeth Sa Te

 
  
 

   

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St,

Halifax Steam Laundry
Limited

Tel. L. 2800,: 1..°2309, 1. 1618
Established 1877.

    
    

   
    

    

Interfaculty Softball

Medicine was keeping. pace with
them by taking forfeited games.

DAL 24; KING’S 0.
Playing before a small crowd of
supporters on Wednesday afternoon,
the Tigers demonstrated that the
senior league has been slightly faster than the Intermediate, by taking
King’s squad into camp to the tune

f a 24 0 lacing.
League Gets Started “°° “°"*
In order to gauge the relative | ‘United Overcome Lead |

strength of the various teams en-|
tered in the Interfaculty Soft Ball |
League, a schedule has been drawn
up, by which each of the teams will
meet the other teams once. By this
play the Interfaculty manager hopes

to be able to draw up a post-Xmas Thomp

| And. Defeat. The Cubs|

Although having the better of the
play during most of the game, the
Dal Cubs were unable to hold an
early lead, gained when Gordon
son went over in the first half

league in which the sections will be | ¢5>. a score.

evenly matched.
The schedule follows:

November 15—
7-8—Dent. vs.
8-9—King’s vs.

Arts and Sc.
Freshmen.
November 16—
7-8—Law vs. Med.
8-9—-Com.-Eng, vs. Pine Hill.
November 21—
7-8—Law vs. Dent.
8-9—Com.-Eng. vs. King’s.
November 22—
7-8—Med. vs. Arts and Sc.
8-9—Pine Hill vs. Frosh.
Noy. 28—7-8—Lew vs. Arts & Sc.
Nov. 29—8-9—Com.-Eng. vs. Frosh.
Dec. 5—7-8—Med., vs. Dent.
Dec. 6—8-9—Pine Hill vs. King’s.

LAW ELIMINATES.
ARTS AND SCIENCE

Replaying a protested game, the
Law team beat out the Arts and
Science squad by 12 to 9 score. The
game, featured by the broken fieldrunning of both teams, was in doubt
up to the final whistle.

The Law team scored first on a
pretty play by Boyd McGilvary.
Taking a penalty kick on the Arts
and Science ten-yard line, McGilvary
raised a short punt over the marking man’s head and then, recovering
the ball before it reached the ground,
raced across the line for a try.

Hinchey, McGilvary, Mercer and
Sutherland were outstanding for
Law, while Merkel, Gaum and McGlashen starred for Arts-Science.

The Law victory eliminated Arts
and Science from a play-off berth.

  

  
 
  
   
  
  
 
   

A determined attack by United in
the second half netted them two
tries, which, with a goal kicked following the first try, gave them
eight points, the game ending with
the score 8 to 3 in favor of United

Seconds.
ROM THE

WINNERS *

START
For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you
play the game with the best
that’s in you.

Cragg Bros. Co.

Limited.
Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N. S.,

 

    

 
       
   
   
       
     
  
  
  
  
     
  

  
  
 

EVERY DAY IS
BARGAIN DAY

AT

TIP
TOP TAILORS

ONE PRICE ONLY

$23.50

MADE TO MEASURE
SUITS, OVERCOATS, FULL
DRESS AND TUXEDO.

  

 
  

   
  
 

  
  
  
  
  
 

422 BARRINGTON ST.

whole.

‘When the,superior condition of the
United men began to tell, the tide
of play turned against the Dal team
From a loosé scrummage near the

Dal line, Hogan grabbed the ball to

go over for a try which tied the
score. Smith failed, to, kick the extra
points. And the first half ended
with the score tied. 3—all.

‘In the sacond half, long kicks by
the United soon had the play in
Tiger territory, and following several fumbles by the Dal team,, Rayner picked up a loose ball to score,
putting his team three points up,
and Smith with a nice kick added
two points to his team’s score.

Dal tried hard to overcome their
opponents’ lead, but although Bud
Thompson kept the team in the running by slipping across for his
team’s only try, the team as a whole
lacked the necessary punch to close

ineligible |up the gap, and the game ended 8

ito 6 in favor of United.

Dalhousie — Full-back, Hal Connor; three-quarters, Thompson, Ross,
Buckley, Crosby; halves, .Crease,
Flynn, Bauld; forwards, Lawrence,

| Bent, Stephenson, Ross, Peters, Tan|ton, Barnstead.

|

Fresh meats of all kinds may some
day be “manufactured”. in biochemical laboratories. For several
years now, Dr. Alexis Carrel, in the
Rockfeller Institute, has been growing a piece of tissue from the heart
of a chicken, kept under carefully
regulated temperature conditions in
a chemical solution. At frequent intervals part of it is cut away, lest
it outgrow its quarters. There is no
reason, in the opinion of certain Oxford scientists, why
from other animals should not ultimately be propagated in the same
way. They picture the ranch of the
future as a biochemical laboratory
producing beefsteaks, pork chops, or
lamb with none of the waste that is
pues consequence of raising a whole
animal for the sake of a few choice
pieces.—Montreal Star.

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

Haircuts 25c.

BERT. BOWLBY
445 BARRINGTON STREET
(Over Buckley’s)

 

CASINO

Wednesday to Friday
November 14 to 16

WAKE UP
AND DREAM

with
RUSS COLUMBO
ROGER PRYOR
JUNE KNIGHT
“Outstanding See aE
—M. S. Herald

Be
Starting Saturday

THE CASE OF THE
HOWLING DOG

with
WARREN WILLIAM

 

When Maurice faily conquers
Jeanette, Lahor’s great musical comedy romance becomes your big, new screen
thrill!

THE MERRY
WIDOW

with
Maurice Chevalier
Jeanette MacDonald

Starts Saturday!

living tissue ~

 

~ _ ~~ > + |

——S en

|
|

.
i/

   
    
 
 
   
   
     
   
 
  
  
 

   
       
   
      
  
   
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
       
     
   
     
   
