    
    

  
 
 

 
   
   
   
   
  

 onit. This, they feel, is detrimen
 

VOL. UXV. _ .

 

ene
————— a

Ghost Tait, Wednesday P.

Is Biggest Show Yet Staged

Carefully mothered by Joe Con

nolly, and nursed by Hal Taylor, the |,

three-act play, “The Ghost Train’,

is now all set for release to the]

public on Wednesday night, February 6, and to the student body on
Thursday, February 7. Three months
of constant rehearsal will culminate,
it is predicted, in complete success.
It is the biggest amateur show ever

staged in Halifax. The Dalhousie
Glee Club is responsible for it, so
don’t miss it—and send your fathers,
mothers, uncles, cousins, brothers,
sisters, husbands and wives to see it.

A lengthy cast is headed by Ruth
Skaling, as the erazy Julia Price;

Ruth Wiegand, as the goofy old
maid, Miss Bourne, and Julius Forster as the inane Englishman, Teddie
Deakin. George Murphy has been
shining in practice as the old station-master, Saul Hodgkin, perhaps
the most difficult character role in
the play.

Edith Cox and Mary Harris are
the two young wives, one just married and not over it yet; the other

well over it. Earle Fraser is paired
off with Edith, and Sam Rothfield is
Mary’s sparring partner.

Others on the cast are:

Howard Drover as...Herbert Price
Sandy MacPherson as John Sterling
David Maclellan as Jackson

Crease and Saunderson as the two
ac Detectives.

very good, their comfh ies 7 under ~
m of Warren “Brain-Wave”

Beazley, who is the man with the!

mind behind the stage-crew, upon
which the success of the show great
ly depends, owing to the multitude,

of effects necessary. Benny Isner}
is the electrician in charge as usual. |

The stage-crew is made up of John
Doull, Jack Dobson, Murray Gould,
David Maclellan, Henry Reardon,
Jack Dacey, Len Saffron, Bob Cunningham, and Ray Wallace.

 

oe

GLEE CLUB NOTICE

The Glee Club wishes to bring to
the attention of the students that if
they are desirous of dancing in the
Gymnasium after the presentation
of “The Ghost Train” on Thursday,
February 7, they are advised to be
present by 8.15 p.m., in order that
the show may get under way as
quickly as possible, so that there
will be along enough period left after the play to make it worth while
to have the dancing. Please act accordingly.

Med. Students Buck

 

Rehearsals of “The Ghost Train”
will be as follows from now on:

Friday, 5.30, in Gymnasium.

Saturday, 3.00, in Munro Room.
Sunday, 3.00 to 11.00 in Gym.

 

Data is Received

On $250 Prize

Following up last week’s editorial on easy ways to make
money, the Gazette publishes the
following information received in
connection with the William Inglis
Morse History Prize:

“This prize, of the value of
$250.00, is offered by Dr. William
Morse for the best essay on an
historical subject, based on original work done in the Nova Scotia
Archives.

The essay should be written on
a broad subject or, at any rate, on
a subject not too minute to be of
general interest. The subject
should be seme phase of Nova
Scotian history, preferably some
phase that has not already been
adequately treated. The essay
should embody the results of
original research on such material
as may be found in the Public
Archives of Nova Scotia. It should
be scholarly and also readable. It
should comprise not less than five

than ten thousand. It should be
completed by April ist, 1935.”
Ree ae ee ee eS

Sir Jos. Chisholm

Thanks Law Soc.

In a letter recently received by
Dick Hinton, secretary of the Law
Society, Chief Justice Sir Joseph A.
Chisholm asked him to thank the
members of the Society for the resolution of congratulation they passed
at their last meeting.

The following is the letter written
by Sir Joseph:

Official Student Publication

the di-] thousand words aad not more |

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 31, 1935

4 hal

a

 

at Dalhousie University

ae Sa re eee cars OS ee a ee

  

—
7)

  

%

1

 

No. 14

 

M. The Very Mock Premier

 

= RESTORE
= PROSPERITY
Gi) }

WU Ay,

i

. La
DARTMouTH “=

BRIDGE

 
    
 

 
  
  

 
 

CaP me —With os tare

Mr Cc wnber $/
Sel a

 
 

Explanatory Note: If you don’t recognize Horace, cover up the lower
half of his face—it may help. He wouldn’t make a face like that for me,
so I had to use my own from the nose down. C. PssB;

Mock Parliament to Open
To-Night in Munro Room

Opening tonight in the Munro
Room, with traditional pomp, the
Law School’s Mock Parliament will
hear the Speech from the Throne, its
moving and seconding and criticism
by Opposition leaders Laurence and
Ross. The Speech expected to
follow generally that delivered recently in Ottawa, with appropriate
measures to alleviate distress and
suffering amongst Dal students. The
Conservatives, in power for at least
the first two evenings, will present

 

several bills and the Cabinet ministers will answer Opposition members’ questions on their departments.

Merle Purtill, only lady member
of the Cabinet, is preparing to cook
the Opposition with particularly
heated argument. The Speech from
the Throne will be moved by Roger
Rand and seconded by Bob Baldwin.

On Wednesday, Prof. George
Curtis gave a practical lecture to
the students on the rules of Parliament.

 

is

 

“Dear Mr. Hinton,—Will you please | 
convey to the members of your
Society—my fellow alumni—my sincere thanks for the kind congratulations contained in the Resolution of
the Society which you sent me? I
do not know any other body in which
I take a greater interest than I do
in your Law Society, and I wish the
Society and its members every success.
Sincerely yours,
JOSEPH CHISHOLM.”

The resolution passed by the Law
Society was:

“Whereas His Majesty recently

     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

+

si: but that in order to do themselves
_—_ustice in the course they must

hes been pleased to confer upon His

At Useless Studies Lordship Joseph A. Chisholm, Chief

Seeking either a radical abridge. | Justice of Nova Scotia, the title,
ment or complete abolition of rank and dignity of Knight Bachelor,
Materia Medica from their course, and
second year Medical students con- Whereas His Lordship is a distinferred at a meetting of the Students’| guished graduate of the Dalhousie
Medical Society last week with|Law School (Class of 1886),
third, fourth, and fifth year students Be it resolved that the Dalhousie
as to a course of action on the|Law Society extend to Sir Joseph
matter. Chisholm, Chief Justice of Nova

It is contended by the studentts Scotia, its heartiest congratulations
that Materia Medica is almost alto-|on the occasion of his elevation to

gether useless to the medical man,|the title, dignity and rank of Knight
Bachelor and express to him its

pride in the recognition which has
so justly come to one of the earliest
graduates of the Dalhousie Law
School and its appreciation of his
noteworthy life and achievements
which has added to the lustre of the
Dalhousie Law Society, and that his
life and achievements and the honour
bestowed upon him all constitute a
great inspiration to the present

_ spend at least three nights a week

tal to their progress in their other
and more vital subjects. It is un_ derstood by the Gazette that promi_ nent physicians and druggists in the
ee have been interviewed, and that
have

a expressed the opinion that
er too much stress is laid on
Medica.

There will be a meeting of the
Medical students with the Medical
faculty on Friday evening, Feb.
Ist, in the Munro Room, at 8.30.

|

—the conflict between the young
and old generations, ended with a
vivid portrait of the new China.

Something
To Think About

The recent victory of the Dalhousie debaters over the U.N.B.
is an event worthy of much praise
by Dalhousians, especially so since
it is the first intercollegiate debate
which Dalhousie has won in the
past two years. The same team
of debaters go on the air again
on Friday night against McGill.

'

)

|

| The recent admission of Richard
Squires to the Quebec Bar marks
the migration of another graduate
of the Dalhousie Law School to
one of Canada’s larger provinces.
“Dick” not only did very well in
his studies, but had an enviable
record in extra-curricular activities. We feel sure that Dick will
prove very success in his chosen
profession and wish him lots of

 

Good luck, boys, we’re sure you
can do it again.

 

An uproar which broke out in
the British House of Commons on
Monday, and which led to the detention of people, causes one to
speculate on just how efficient
British democracy is in a crisis.
Of. course, there have been so
many changes and acts during
during the past year as would
lead one to ask whether British
government is still eee or
Dictatorial.

 

Pearl S. Buck has just finished
writing “A House Divided”. This,
the third book of a triology, brings
an intimate description of Chinese
life down to modern times. “Good
Earth” gave an account of a
Chinaman in very poor circumstances who “made good”. “Sons”,
the story of the second generation, gave a picture of a period
during which radical changes
were being formulated, and now
“A House Divided” completes the
picture with China in revolution

luck.

 

The recent pact signed by Pierre
Laval of France and Il Duce concerning land concessions in Africa
may not prove so happy for
Ethopia. Before the ruling influences of the country were split
up between several powers and
each held the others in check. But
if this treaty means that Italy is
to have control of two parts of
the influence in that locality, it is
submitted that a great wave of
exploitation will follow which may
result in a clash not only between
white and black, but between white
and white.

 

Huey Long’s dictatorship took a
serious turn last week when it became necessary for the Kingfish
to call out the troops to quell a
revolt against his iron rule. It is
rumored that “The Square Deal”
Association, the Senator’s bitter
fees, are behind the attack, and
4 fair deduction would be that
the Standard Oil Co. are behind

| the “Square Dealers”,

Dalhousie Team Defeats
Follows The Bennett myetemn U.N. B. in First Radio Debate

Dalhousie Debaters Support the Feminine Element of Their
School, to Win First Intercollegiate Debate in Two Years.

On Friday night Messrs.
Messrs.
U. N. B,
mission.
in our Universities’’.

Welcomed Back

EK. B. Vandyne and George L. Horner,

spoke first.
|resolution, and then set forth the

Richardson and Pink defeated
representing

in a debate sponsored by the Canadian Radio ComThe resolution was, “Co-education should be abolished

U. N. B. took the affirmative and
Mr.Vandyne defined the

To Alma Mater! ‘2"% {tions of a university: first,

 

SMITH

PRESIDENT S. E.

“Three cheers for Sid Smith” was |
the greeting accorded the President
of the University of Manitoba by |
thirty-odd Law students and former
pupils who had braved the rain and
welcome |
Law
School as he stepped from the Ocean

cold Tuesday evening to
back the former dean of the
R.

Limited at the C. N. station.

President Smith appeared to have

popularity, and

scramble

lost none of his
there was a general
shake hands with him.
Manning, second year student succinctly put it, “He’s the same
ever, even to the same old grey}
hat.”

President Smith is in Halifax in|
connection with the settling of the
O. E. Smith estate, being named
in the will as an executor. He is
expected to visit the Law School today and may possible take part in
the Mock Parliament. Rumor
igests he is the “bigger man

as

sugthan

myself” Dean MacDonald promised |

to fill the Governor-General’s post.

Communism in U. S. A.

“Communion in the U. S. A.” is
to be the subject of a Students’
Forum on Tuesday noon, February
5th, in room 3 in the Arts Building.

The special speaker, Mr. Beverley
Oaten, has been in active touch with
students in his recent position
field secretary of the Students’ Division of the Y. M. C. A. in California,
and is known for the part he took
in the recent industrial disorders in
the Imperial Valley in California.
“Communism, for American  students, is more than an intellectual
question,” he says, “for many it is
a living creed.” He himself has
been accused of being a Communist.

This year, as General Secretary
of the Canadian Student Christian
Movement, he has visited universities across the continent. Mr.
Oaten is now on his first visit to
Dalhousie, and a busy schedule has
been planned for him by the local
S. C. M. during his five days here.
Besides several meetings with the
executive, he is to be second speaker
in the series on “My Philosophy of
Life”, in St. Andrew’s Church Hall
at 8.30 Sunday evening, for students
only. He will speak in St. Matthew’s Church Sunday morning, and
at a special supper meeting in the
Green Lantern on Monday evening,
tickets for which may be secured
from the S. C. M. executive.

as

 

| Rhodes
to

As Charlie |

| always

 

‘furnish a liberal education; second,
|to give a vocational eaecatl on. and

| third, to prepare students for life.

Segragation was the thing he sub
|mitted, for the co-ed diverts the en
ergy of man into improper channels.

Mr. Richardson then opened the
debate for the negative. His principal argument in favor of co-education being that it was economical,
and enabled more people to partake

‘of the advantages of higher educa
tion. As for the demoralizing effeet

| of co-education, Mr. Richardson said

there were no Mamies or Joe Colleges” at Dalhousie or at any Canadian university, for that matter.
He then pointed out that one of the
most destructive results of segregation would be to abolish women
from professional schools.

Mr. Horner for U. N. B. followed
out the arguments of his colleague,
stressing the question of immorality
particularly and pointed out that
co-education was the cause of many
unhappy marriages.

Mr. Pink closed the argument for
Dalhousie. He pointed out that
women do not lose their feminine
charm by attending a co-educational
school and selected Dalhousie as a
typical example. He then pointed
out that the students turned out of

'co-educatienal schools were a better

type of student and substantiated
his argument by pointing out that
scholars, men who came
co-educational schools, were
at the top at Oxford and
Cambridge, and what is more these
two old schools have in the past

from


 

i
;

| year or two gone co-educational,

The leader of the affirmative then
closed the debate in a rebuttal.
rebuttal.

Much credit is due Professors
'Johnson and Bennett who gave so
unselfishly of their time and experi}ence. The judges were Dr. F. H.
Sexton, Halifax; Mr. Roy Campbell,
Montreal; Dr. A. §. MacFarlane,

Fredericton.

On next Friday night the same
Dalhousie men will debate
McGill, Montreal.

against

Medical Notes

The interest of all good Meds has
been centered of late on the skirmish

between those stormy petrels, the
Second Year Class, and our revered
lecturer in Materia Medica. To those

in the know, it looks as if Dean B.
will have to dip his colours.

 

An interesting meeting is called
for this Friday night, both faculty
and students having been invited.
All grievances may be aired and
many suggestions made. Accordingly a full attendance is requested.
Time, 8.30 p.m. Place, Munro Room.

 

The fourth year class is being
subjected to the ordeal of an exam
this week, first and second years
each having written one last week.
Good luck!

 

After a lapse of a year, the Medical banquet is to be held again, so
the Students’ Medical Society decided
last Thursday night. It will take
place in March, and everybody is
asked to bring their own.

 

Is it “ealf love”, or just a platonic
friendship between Wilmer and the
Medical missionary? Easy, Barney!

gee es rae
cr 2
   

a

  
 

W. A. REID
B. 5827

Sports Editor
BILL DAVIS
B. 4384
; | Assistant
_  . ARTHUR MEAGHER
B. 2886

 

 

_ THE BLESSINGS OF AMNESIA

esto Editors are only saved from burning at the stake because
“people don’t get together. Every paper that amounts to any___. thing makes people violently angry. If all the people who are
made at the paper would meet just after the paper is out, there
would be enough to hang any editor in the world. But they fail

-. to met, and the free press, which is the pabulum of liberty
(whatever that means), thrives, and truth crushed to earth
rises by seven o’clock in the morning and the world forgets its
‘wrong. Loss of memory is really one of the great blessings of
the race. If people didn’t forget a great deal, the world would
be full of murders and suicides, and no editor would be able to

7 .
oF

 

print more than three issues of his paper. The crowd against

him would be too large.

hawt a helnte | = W. Ay W. e

as <;

ota: ; |

eee SMOKE AND SCANDALS

Mig We have been asked why we let some Campus scandals,

‘which are known to a few people, go by without publication.

-- ~Wouldn’t they have made spicy reading for everyone? Yet we

ie Ny published the names of those caught smoking in the Gym.

_ Why the inconsistency?

_ -—-———s This is a fair question, and the answer is this: It is the

“ policy of the Gazette to keep scandal out of its columns. We

might print the actual news, if, say, the parties concerned
___— were dismissed from the University. The students have a right
_ to such news. But the harrowing details that mark the wreck

  
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
   

of someone’s reputation or life are not news; they are always
abnormal and often debasing. Sometimes they are as pretty as
the inside of an unbleached slop bucket. We feel that the
wreck of a reputation is bad enough, but to pry among the
-_-wreckage is ghoulish. :
_ Now about the smoke. The man who runs around expensive
drapes in definance of regulations with fire in his mouth and
hands is a nuisance. If permitted to continue unchecked, the
a abit will spread among the rest of the student body and even| r the building goes up in smoke. The readers
rested in him. There are places provided in
r the use of the votaries of the weed and these
used. Publicity of offenders is the only way to
___ keep the rest of the student body straight. If it occurs again,
___ the names of the offenders, no matter who or what they are,
_____will be published. There is no excuse, it is nothing more than
___ thoughtlessness or that “To Hell with it” attitude.
eg ae! We hope that no one will break the rules just to get his
Mame in the Gazette—there are such people, you know.
___-Psychologists call them morons.
eek. So when you ask, “Are there any news of scandal?” we
will reply, “Not a new.” But if there’s smoke in sight or in the
_-—s« alr—watch out that it doesn’t get in YOUR eyes.

       
  

    
   

  
   
  
    
 
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
    
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    

  

  

ve
y

yl

 

RESIDENTIAL LIFE |

_ Much has been written of residential life at universities.
Principally, the arguments in its favour are three: it gives a
| greater opportunity to obtain a liberal education; it tends toSea wards the formation of lasting friendships; and it promotes a
ass healthier and more athletic life amongst the students. These
oa classifications are not wholly inclusive, but they are the most
< _-—s- evident and most easily proven.

; In Johnson’s dictionary, a university is explained as “a
er school where all arts and faculties are taught.”” Perhaps an
by improvement on the great doctor’s definition might be that a
____ university is a school where all arts and faculties are learned.
aed Certainly, it would seem the acquiring of knowledge by a student through his own work is better than simply understanding

what a teacher expounds. Residential life, with its throwing
together of many students, should give every opportunity of
learning. Bringing students together in their off-class hours
has another good effect. Naturally some two or three will
stand out amongst the rest—not as vague faces but as good
fellows one knows and who unconsciously influence one’s life.
The influence of knowing the exceptional student is probably
the best feature of life in a residence. It is cut down in a non; —residential college, where senior and graduate seldom come in
«contact with freshmen. Under non-residential life, it is
___ usually found the brilliant student is comparatively unknown;
__ the only one who can be known to all is thé socialite.
As for the formation of friendships, students living in one
quarter must necessarily get a deeper knowledge of each

f other. Acquaintances of the first year grow to full under__ Standing in the last. Working and playing together is essential

(toa frank friendship A residence makes this possible. The
___ growth of fraternities is prompted by the same idea, but, with
___ their smaller groups, they are confined in their possibilities,

___ Apart from Pine Hill and King’s, Dalhousie’s male students
are denied residential life. Our nearest example of what such

it make possible is the new common room—a very good

in the right direction. But it is not enough. Since in

Mmancial circumstances none will present a residence

the Gazette suggests the students should plan a
urpose. The mere signing over of caution de
e, if continued over a period of years, would
,2 large enough sum to prompt wealthy patrons
1 helps those who help themselves,

Ps 2 ‘’ 44
a lk Ei

 

  

having writ, Moves on.”
—Omar Khayyam.

 

THE UNIVERSITIES’ GOAL.

Sidney E. Smith, President of
the University of Manitoba and former Dean of the Dalhousie Law
School, in a recent speech before
the Canadian Club at Winnipeg,
named open-mindedness, initiative,
and self-reliance as three characteristics which universities should
strive to give their graduates. The
President claims “that the universities owe it to the youth to free them
from the bogey of labels which they
may swallow or shy of. I have in
minds labels as Liberals, Conservatives, Reactionaries, Radicals, Rightists, and Leftists. How they have
confused us! The youth of today
are clear-eyed and honest, but it is
the task of the University to nurture
and enhance that spirit of openmindedness. Are our universities
destroying initiative, resourcefulness
and self-reliance in our youth?”

What do we in Dalhousie say?
Is Dalhousie striving to give her
students those three characteristics ?
Before going further it is just as
well to state what a university is.
John Henry Newman claimed a university was “a place of concourse,
whither students come from every
quarter for every kind of knowledge.” And by. every kind of knowledge” is not meant a strict adherence
to the classics, for example, or to any
particular branch of learning, but
rather a well-rounded and sane development of both the physical and
mental sides of each individual student.

Dalhousie offers exactly this to
those who cross her portals. The
physical side is well taken care of
through the medium of the gymnasium and such sports as hockey,
basketball, and football, to name but
a few.

The mental side is looked after in
the various courses offered—through
the literary work applicable to our
college paper—through forensic encounters between the various classes,
and also inter-university competition; through our Public Speaking
Club, for a certain class through the
Mock Parliament. “There you have
all the choicest productions of nature and art together, which you
find each in its own separate place
elsewhere.”

Take heed, rulers of the destiny
of Dalhousie, for a great heritage is
in your hands, and in the nature of
things greatness and unity go together. No antagonism should be
allowed to exist as between teacher
and student, for that is not its purpose. Open-mindedness, initiative, and
self-reliance are to be fostered and
fostered carefully. “A university is
a seat of wisdom, a light of the
world, a minister of the faith, an
Alma Mater of the rising generation.” Such is a university in its
idea and in its purpose.

 

HOCKEY,

In our campus ramblings recently
we have heard much _ discussion
about hockey. Some students declare that hockey gets a quite disproportionate share of D. A. A. C.
funds. “Red” Paine emphatically denies the charge. Whether the charge
is true or not we do not know, but
we would like to emphasize the principle that money should be granted
to the various sports in proportion
to the student interest in those
sports. We sometimes feel that the
D, A. A. C. and the Council do not
keep this principle in mind, but
rather grant money to the managers
who are most vociferous in their demands, and who have most “pull’’.

That there is little interest in
hockey at Dalhousie is a self-evident

“The Moving Finger writes, and

Examinations

Wherever there is a representative
gathering of students at any College
the aftermath of an examination is
almost invariably concerned with
heated discussions on the present examination nuisance. From those unfortunate lambs who have been
shorn in the recent struggle, we hear
desperate pleas for the abolition or
at least the modification of our present examination system. Yet not
from these alone do the plaintative
deprecations come for every student
who has thought anything about examinations as such must ere now
have realized how essentially rotten
is the present sytem.

Yet we are told we must have
these examinations as an incentive
to work hard. They provide indirect
motivation. They undoubtedly do—
but to what effect ? The examinations
become mere tests of isolated knowledge, and the incentive they provide
is not for more study but, under
nerve-racking tension, for the absorption of these isolated facts, the
memory of which must of necessity
be transient.

Examinations, as we know them,
tend to destroy the student’s natural
interests for the time being, and to
exclude from his range of consciousness everything which does not deal
directly with exams themselves.
They tend to paralyse all powers of
exposition, the writer’s aim being to
bombard the examiner with masses
of unrelated facts which none but a
person thoroughly versed in the work
covered, i.e. the professors, could ever
hope to read intelligently; and it
must be conceded, if we argue psychologically, that such exercise in the
art of murderous exposition does
have decided after effects,

Moreover, the result of a student’s
efforts in the exam. room is not a
fair sample of his knowledge and
capacity; it is liable to extreme variations, favourable if the student
happens to have prepared the exact
questions asked, unfavourable if the
candidate is suffering from misfortune or ill-health. Again, besides the
lack of individuality which must accompany the student’s written exam,
because of the examining of several
hundred ey at onee, examinations also produce physical damage
to health, especially in the case of
women students, and in this respect
ho amount of statistical evidence is
lacking.

However, criticism can never be of
any help if it is always destructive,
So we suggest a modification of the
System as it now exists. Many sufferers from exams have suggested
their own remedy to be weekly tests
which supply the necessary incentive
to study and place the student under no great strain. A further suggestion which could be carried out
most subjects, and which, in fact,
has been successfully tried, is that
of distributing the examination questions some time Say, two weeks before the end of the term, so that the
student may answer them at leisure.
higher standard of questioning and
appears on first sight. Naturally, a
higher standard questioning and
marking will be set, and in the end
the student who really has the more
intelligent grasp of his subject gets
the better results. To avoid papers
being written by several students
working together, each may be asked
to write on the given questions without notes and in the presence of an
instructor when the two weeks have
elapsed. The questions will, of course
have to be so devised as to render
the paper a comprehensive review of
the work covered, something which
1S Impossible under the present system. Such an examination, we believe, would test what examinations

| have been said to aim at testing

“skill in the manipulation of facts,

Ce gic OO ly yy Se

proposition. Many a _ student has | “hat of an open-air rink at Studley
never seen the hockey team play.|°' © the Carleton tennis courts.

Unfortunate as is this condition of

With a winter like the present there

affairs, the reason for it is plain— ,W°Uld be no ice problem; the cost

the Forum is too far away. When
the millenium rolls around we may
have a stadium on the campus. Until then the Canadian national winter sport is relegated by fate to the
place of a minor sport at Dalhousie.

 

A CAMPUS SKATING RINK

While the chances of a campus
stadium in the near future are
slight, a suggestion less Utopian is

could be slight — nothing like the
$1700 said to have been spent on
such a project a few
Some students could sur
suaded to supply the labor; a promment D. A. A. C, executive has already promises to keep such a rink
clear of snow. We understand that
the D. A. A. C. is at present considering a suggestion of this nature;
we hope that they will be able is
give it their approval.

years ago.
ely be per
January 31, 1935

 

 

 

POET’S CORNER

THE MERMAID

Diana strode in regal majesty

Acress the star-filled sky

and loosed her hatr,

A golden cascade, on the quiet sea.
The world was hushed in mute expectancy,
A vibrant quiet grew upon the air
As though the magic night I wandered where

Sometimes between the moon-beams and the sand
A gleaming form appears as from a clime

Beyond the Earth, a face

and form sublime

Comes from the greenish depths and waves her hand—
To-night I will obey her soft command.—

She comes!

I hear the sweet deep-sea bells chime,

And plunge to meet her ’mid the weeds and slime
To seek m vain my dreamed-of Wonderland.

 

  
  

  

Gazette
BOOK REVIEW

 

“GOOD-BYE, MR. CHIPS”
(By James Hilton)

Defying exact classification,
ing in that comparatively unexplored region between the
story and the novel, comes this rare
bit of classie sentiment.

In “Good-bye, Mr. Chips” we have
one of those refreshing and selfsatisfying characterizations such as
come to us but seldom, and whose
memory lingers long-tender, without
falling into over-sentimentality;
humorous, yet avoiding the pitfall
of pathos.

The theme of the story, Mr. Chipping, came as a Junior Master in
1870 to Brookfield, an English
school, where he soon endeared himself to the hearts of the boys as
“Chips”. He remained there for
sixty-three years, growing more and
more into the lovable old pedagogue whose addiction to the same
jokes, occasionally supplemented,
places him at once in a definite category. Living in the memory of the
past, yet always able to turn past

 

which is the true sign of a trained
intelligence.”

Whatever it is, let us have a system which will, at least, lift the burden of physical and mental strain
from the student, give him a chance
to write something worth reading, to
display his real knowledge and capacity, in short, a system which will
not merely “lead to the transmission |
of the sterile art of passing exam |
inations.”

 

short | form of exposition:

experience to meet present difficulties, his loyalty to the old school,
for Kathie, the wife who was with
him so short a time, and for the
Classics that he taught, is expressive of the person that was Mr.
Chips.

The character sketch gains much
of its charm not only from the

ly-| writer’s sympathetic knowledge of

this personality, but also from his
the story is
really a series of reminiscences of
Mr. Chips in his dotage. However,
the skill and human understanding
of the author makes this form of
presentation much more. effective
than simple narrative could ever
hope to be.

Mr. Hilton has achieved more
than a success; in Mr. Chips he has
caught something of the charm
which the writings of centuries past
have always held for us, a style
which will easily defy modern imitation.

 

  

a
Where

in the Evening?

 
   
   
  

Why, The Green Lan
tern, of course, with

 
    

its

   

cosy, attractive 
    
 

“Canterbury Room”’,

You'll like it.

  
 

THE

_ GREEN LANTERN

 
 

       

 

 

 
 
   
       
      
       

Special Rates to

STUDENTS
24 Hour Finishing
Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Gardren Rd
Phone B. 6992

 

STUDENTS’ FORUM
Editor, The Gazette:

Dear Sir,—Before accepting the
invitation so charmingly (7?) profi erred by the “Dear Sisters” for the
night of February 11th, might a
i humble member of another sister‘hood be allowed to ask a few ques| tions about this Philanthropic Fes| Fae teval?

_ ss Why is it that, with our own Halifax fresh air camps and charitable
organizations barely able to make

both ends meet, that we, the none
too affluent students of Dalhousie,
are also asked to shoulder the burden of the unfortunates of Upper
. Canada and very probably the
States? Does not charity begin at
home?
ge the “sweet young things” think
1eir undertaking so laudable, why

     
  
   

¢ tT am me that the firtencial
nel at of the Gabba Gabbas

ins of the seadentie: I cannot but |
| help feel that the thinly veiled ref- erence to the muddled financial
status of other sororities was a
rather bad breach of fraternal etiquette. Indeed, if we are so un
___ sound why not practice a little phil-|.

__ anthropy on us—at least the money
___would be kept in Nova Scotia.
- ~ May I also ask you if it is going
to be an all Dalhousie night, for
despite the assurance of Eta, your
sutle reference to a “free advertiseBe on: ment” number has led me to believe
that the versatile students of this
University were to appear in the
novel role of commercial advertisers.
If this is not true, then you, Mr.
Editor, have made a libelous statement. Also, is it true that the show
they claim to be a special will be the
_ Same one the Capitol will carry on
_ Friday and Saturday preceding?
May I conclude, sir, with the suggestion that a bout between “Strangwoes ler” Goudge and some other Co-ed
_ should prove very popular in an all
Dalhousie show.
Yours respectfully,
pe IRATE SISTER OF ANOTHER
= SORORITY.

=,
i Ww
a

P.S.—‘Hell knoweth no fury like
'___— a Woman’s scorn”. May I extend to
! you, Mr. Editor, my heartfelt sympathy for your clash with the
; o “labourer in the vineyards” (of
tee Southern Ontario)—and this is not
meant as “sour grapes”. either!
I. S. of A. S.

 
  
  
    
    
   
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
  

f

    

-Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

3 $1.25

ae Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.
Telephone Lorne 2323.

St Consninia’ Limited

| Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors

3] oe “None better—anywhere”

the mighty Rhyan out—flat.

| Gee, that they fail to see the frui

OF BUNK

CHAPTER 14.

1. And so it came to pass that
there arose in the Kol-ums of the
Gaz a new Skr-ibbler, who not only
thinketh that he can Skr-ibble as
well as the Scribe of Bunk, but who
also insulteth the learned Scribe. “I

| will wipe him off the Gaz with my

Kolum of Wash,” quoteth he, but his
Kolum was all whet, and was a flopp
with the Studes. Who dareth kompare himself with the Apos-tel of
Bunk! “None,” cry the Editors of
the Gaz, for perhaps the Scribe of
Bunk is we. None knoweth the sekrets of the Gaz.

2. The mighty voices of the
Radeo, Pale Peenk, and Blue-Bird
Reech-HardSohn, battled wits with
voices from their seester Universeety of Nhew-Brunz-Whik, who
boasted of there buhteeful femmes.
Then Reech-Hard-Sohn retal-ee-ated.
We have no flaming Mamies or Jho
Koll-eges in our faire Lande as the
Opp-o-zizthun would have you
theenk. And Peenketh sayeth come
unto Dal, speek unto our fair
whomen, xm-ine them, and if you
have ever seenth better, you have
been seeing theengs. Who could
withstand such statements. The
Warriors of Dal won, and once again
brot honour to the Children of our
Fare Lande.

3. And on the sixth day of the
past month of Decembre one greatful one sayeth “Ten Bhooks to he
who writeth the best ezzaie on a
selekted topik. Lo-and behold many
skribes—three in all—seated themselves and worked long and laboriously to win the coveted Honour. The
time their kame to pass, but no
prizes were forthkomning. The children of Dal cannot skribble, they are
too busy thinking of. shows, and
other teengs and so none of the Ezzaies are worth the honour of even
one Bhuk— and lo the scribes are
sorely disapp-oi-nted. But they deserveth naught else.

4. Then there was to be a show
in the Thee-A-Ter, the Cap. where a

-|Dal orchist led by the famous Rhyan,

he who has his Kollar up, was to
play. But the mighty Heart sayeth
to the Sorors: “unless I play there
shall be no dans at the Green. And

fer the Phoor, forgetteth that Char| eety beginneth at Home, and threw
He fell
fell so hard that his show-lder was
broke, along with his Heartt.

But lo ’twas not easy as it seemth.
. Among the Orkest of Rhyanne
were many of the “Leetle Meensters”
from the Hill of Phine, who sayeth
we will feex these Sorors. And
so they returneth to their dwelling
and shoutheth loud and long to all
the other “Leetle Meensters”: “Do
not go unto the Cap—the seesters of
the Soreor are too unfair. = ae

not enough they get our fare name}

of Dal to use, they too try to get us.

Let us stay away. And
thus a Boy-caught was deklared—
and the rumors are that the Thee-Ater night will flop—at least so it is
sayeth.

5. And in the Lybe of the Studes
there is one, she who guides the girls.
She staunchly defends the faith that
Sigh-Lens is Golden, and with her
steely glare rains supreme and
sticks feere into the hearts of many
Studes. Thus now most  Studes
talketh not in the Sink-ter-airy of
Lolah. Lolah know whats best for

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

One of the Reviewer’s most ardent
admirers recently sent him a truly
charming poem for criticism and
commentation. It was the only one
arriving at his desk during the past
week which was worth the trouble
of reviewing.

It came in the hours of early
morning—the milkman brought it,
to save the postage, and gave it to
the Reviewer when he found him
searching for a misplaced keyhole.

At noon, as the Reviewer gazed
at the bulky envelope with hazy
eyes, he had an odd presentment
that it was pregnant with some
magnificent thought, some work
which was to be a landmark in
world literature. Then something arrested his attention. He had been
pinched before, but this was a different sensation. A long, verdant
something protruded from the envelope and pointed like a_ slender
finger upward, as if proclaiming
that the contents of the envelope had
come from a _ divine inspiration.
Hurriedly and excitedly he leaped
from his bed and staggered to his
desk. Closer examination proved
the something to be only a stalk of
alfalfa, but at least that was something to chew upon. And then he
recognized the writing. The son of
the man who had ejected him from
his barn in his hobo days had given
birth to another poem. Reuben
Bumpkin had passed another milestone on his hitch-hike to fame.

This rather solemn, yet beautiful,
poem is charged with the tender
pathos of a youth disappointed in
the enjoyment of his most cherished
pleasure. There is a slight condensation of thought, but this represents an economy of expression
which is not without dignity and effectiveness, thus giving added emphasis to the sentiment.

The first four verses give the
deed, the punishment and the feelings of our hero. We quote:

ELEGY WRITTET BY A
COUNTRY WOOD-PILE

“The rooster long has heralded break
of day;

The lowing herd escorted to the lea;

My father townward takes his busy
way ‘

And leaves the axe and woodpile
here with me.

Now fades the rattling Lizzie from
the sight,

And all the air my deep resentment
fills,

My orders are to have it cut by
night,

Or else I’d better take to yonder
hills.

My sweetest pleasure cruelly denied:

To go to town, to view the girls and
gape

At brilliant store displays diversified—

Because I erred, I get it in the nape.

How should I know the bullfrog I
had caught

Would jump in father’s coffee, there
to drown?

The summer air was blue, with anger fraught—

The cup he drained showed froggie,
simmered brown.”

Following this outburst, the hero
philosophizes in true cider-squeezer
fashion. What is it all- worth, anyway? Why must he slave as a
hewer of wood and a wmilker of
cattle for a week and then miss the
trip to town because of an accident?
It ain’t fair, by Crackey, he swears.

the yuth. Yuth must be seen but|That old bog-trotter of a pappy of

not heard — but shee kan be both
seen and heard, for does she no
guide the yuth.

6. In the big Senter of Forrest
the Meds turned Reds and spread
for the seeds of diss-oh-luht-shun.
Berbij was their Target, and their
Aim was strait. But a better and
wiser man there never dwelt in the
Lande of Dal. Ber-Bij the Ghud he
has been surnamed by those who
have passed before. But the lowly
Denizens of Med are so be-kluttered
with An-At-Om-Ee, and Path-Ohl-O
of Ber-Bij’s teechings. They have
useth there One Trak mind for
naught but their Des-Truk-Shun.
And they striketh on a plan to make
there Whork ezy. Now they do as
they pleaseth—their work is in vain
—but it is no the fault of Them
it is because of there Small Brane.
And there by ends the Tale.

 
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
  

his would be sorry, by Gum, when
he returns from town with the unsold eggs and a flat tire that needs
fixing, if he would find his eldest
son dead—had hung up his harness,
so to speak. Man! that was a
mighty idea! And so he plans
thusly:

“These many slabs which are my

lot to hew ,

Soon will make my resting-place, my
coffin,

And Pop will never know what he
will do

When my neighbours it do me bear
off in.”

Mr. Bumpkin seems to have slipped in his metre here. Perhaps his
girl was coming and he had to meet
her, which might account for the

feminine rhyme, but this is typical /

THE FOURTH BOOK POETRY REVIEW {Pine Hill on Parade

Pine Hill’s well-known apostle of
Don Juan arrived home early on Saturday night. In spite of circumstantial evidence to the contrary,
Dick avers that the Supper Dance
was a “honey”.

 

Fraser Nicholson and Allan Beveridge wish to express through this
medium their thanks to all who contributed either materially or with
cordial sympathy to their efforts in
collecting the requisite number of
cents which would secure their admission to the “Family”. They desire to do so in this manner, since
it would be too long and arduous a
task to thank all personally. Ted
Short is again thanked, for, though
his spirit was willing to the extent
of a nickel, yet the stern rules of
their chivalry prevented our mendiecants from relieving their willing
victim—God bless ’m!

 

Tell it not in Gath—publish it not
in the streets of Ashkelon, and especially not in Hebden Bridge,
Yorks, England! The worthy deacon
of the first floor, annex, contrary to
his vows and derogatory to the rules
of the order which he is bound to
uphold, was seen in company with
one of the opposite sex participating
in those stolen delights which his
better half must, we feel sure, be
missing. For his sake, let us hope
that no such thing as mental telepathy exists between himself and
the lady “over the pond” or trouble
must.surely be brewing. However,
he is said to have been effectively
chaperoned. If nothing else is said,
we will do our part and keep the
whole thing secret.

 

Our well-known twins unfortunately found it necessary to spend
the better part of Sunday out of
town—unfortunately, that is, for
them. It seems that a group of
well-wishers decided to alter the interior decoration of their room. The
result was amazing, and surely the
work of either a genius or a maniac.
Tables and chairs were piled in the
centre of the floor, and the whole
crowned with a conglomeration of
clothes and suitcases, suitably intertwined. Lights, of course, were removed, and the wires more or less
confused. Wardrobes, or at least
one of them, filled what part of the
floor remained vacant, and a pile of
books, cleverly concealed behind a
door, awaiting only its opening in
order to be scattered over the wreckage. The thoughtfulness of the willing workers defies praise, for they
left both windows wide open (temp.
2 below), lest the wrath of the returning Wrights should cause the
temperature to rise above normal.
Assuredly it did, but apparently the
naturally cooled air had little effect
on ruffled nerves, because Arthur,
being a very religious man, immediately proceeded in fervent prayer,
to tell the Lord all about it. News
whispers, gleaned from here and
there, convey the information that
this is only the beginning, unless
the big bull and hide man from
Charlottetown discontinues his use
of the windows for other than ventilation purposes.

This is not the end of the story,
for, according to the judgment of
our always sympathetic Pope, the
malefactors were required to restore
everything as it had been found.

\“‘For the way of the transgressor is

hard.” Or we may say that “the
laugh was on them”; or more suceintly, “(W)right has triumphed.”

 

 

composing this verse apparently affected his coherence of thought, if
we are to judge from appearances.

Somehow or other, our hero dies,
probably from overwork when trying to get the wood cut before his
cruel father returns from town.

In a little country cemetery nestled
in a gently sloping intervale there
is a grave—nothing unusual in that
—but it is the grave of our hero,
and sympathetically engraved on the
inexpensive white headstone is this
touching epitaph:

“Here rests his head upon a pile of
dirt

A youth, who could have been a
gentle lamb.

But now he lies where he can do no
hurt:

18th Century circumlocution and; Which fate befalleth each who’d be

nothing else. The mental strain of

po io emer et a ee

a ram.”

rt £2 ie Si a Se loner tte

students.

 

RIGHT DOWN
YOUR ALLEY!

Cool,

and where quality i

concerned, Turrets are

“right down your al
ley”’

Turrets today !

  

CIGA
SAVE THE

That’s the truth
and you can easily
prove it yourself! Try

mild, mellow,
satisfying! Yes, sir,

S

 

Quality and mudnes’

urret

RETTES
POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited.

 

RESTRAINT

He had restrained himself admirably in class today. He knew he
did—and walking back to his boarding house he gave himself a congratulatory smile. But the smile
passed. Was this what his life had
become ?—a limitation to the external world around him; a dwelling
upon his own emotions and virtues;
a feeling that his existence was justified because he had repressed a
desire to be sarcastic to one of his
He had learned the
principles of tolerance, but he had
not learned the fundamental rule—
that they must not be applied to
oneself.

His mind was satisfied; it had remained in the same groove for
years, and had found a comfortable
resting-place there. He was one of
those unfortunates to whom life was
an open book, but to whom was denied the will to read there more
than what pleased them.

The authority and esteem attending upon his position as a leading
professor in his university had
neither broadened his outlook nor
sharpened his insight, as he had
hoped. “Frankly, I’m in a rut,’ he
said to himself; “I’ve just been lecturing ten years. I’m only fortyseven. Yet I give my students the
same material, the same ideas year
after year. I might as well make
copies of my lectures and not bother
going to class. And the worst of
it is, I think myself a great fellow.
When I see them listening with so
much attention, I think I’m really
saying something. And I’m not. I
haven’t said anything worth hearing
since my first year as a professor.
I haven’t developed since I begun
to lecture. And people say, “Hasn’t
he done well? Why, he’s head of
his department!”

 

 

Halifax Transfer
™ B. 7138

BIRKS-
Programmes, invitations, and favors for
dances require thought
and early planning.

 

 

For that added
smartness, consult
Birks.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

e 7 —

“
ae ag

 

ee ~

 

His self-condemnations ran on.
“Tl give up my position. I'll start
at the beginning again. TI’ll have
new thoughts, new feelings. Then
everything will be fresh instead of
jaded.” But as he spoke, he knew
he would not—not because of dependants, for he had none, but because of the complacent mediocrity
surrounding his impulses, pressing
down, with spatulate fingers, the
strivings of his spirit. His deep
arm-chair and fire meant too much
to him.

He sighed as he turned into his
boarding-house. But tea revived

him and his easy slippers were good
to his feet.

———————
To You Whom I Meet
In the casual passing
On the street;

A wave, a whisper, or perchance

A smile, a gay salute,
When we meet.

To the eandid passerby
We are but rangers

In the crowd that wind and turn,
But in our secret souls
We know, we are not strangers.

And so I pass you,
Never seeing and yet knowing
That you know and see the same,

There is beauty in this thing
Called passing,

Though we meet, and pass, and
meet again.

M. C. M.

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
Mt sou B-7376

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

 

 

MacLeod, Balcom
Limited

DRUGGIST

Halifax and Bedford

 

FROM THE

WINNE START

For 60 years the REACH Trade.
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you

play the game with the best
that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO,

Limited.

Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N. S.

—

an ces he ee lie Ra

a <a:

 

 
  
  
    
   
     
   
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
 

    
 
   
   
   
   
       
     
      
     
    
     
   
   
    
 

'. Up; j

; 8

co

‘Let’s Have Suggestions”
- Asks Managing Committee
Meeting in the Murray aay Inte oe ulty Basketb all

on Sunday last, the Managing ComLAW, 23; DENTS, 21.

mittee of the D. A. A. C. disct
In a game packed with excitement,
close-guarding and three overtime

ways and means of revising the
periods, Law won a close victory

constitution. One of the points
stressed was the need for criticism
over Dentistry on Tuesday. Both
teams showed the strain of the

ae
and suggestion from the college men
- to whom this issue should be of
_ vital interest. It is for this purpose :
eee a = oa _|game as it went into overtime.
that several of the objectionable by Much credit for the win goes to
Charlie Miller, whose aggressive
spirit spurred the Lawyers in their

laws have been published below.
_. Article No. 5—Officers. last final efforts to win. Credit for
Section 1. The officers of this|the winning score, however, goes to
Club shall consist of an Honorary|rangy Hal Conner, who, by a long
President, a Vice-President and aj|center shot off the backboards, put
Secretary, a Manager of Football, a| his team ahead.
Manager of Hockey, a Manager of} Paul Goldman, short forward for

a @é. ate
i? gee ema

 

Assistant Manager of Football, and) points, followed by Charlie Miller
an Assistant Manager of Hockey. with 8. Glenn Smith and Tom

Section 2. One member from each|Rogers divided honors for third
Faculty of the University and two|place with 6 points.
members from the Senate of the| Law—D. Ross, 2;
University shall, with the President,|G. Smith, 6; I. McLeod, W.
Vice-President and Secretary, con-! Davis, 3; H. Conner, 4; D. Harvey,
stitute the Managing Committee. |G. Thompson.

Notice that in Section 1 the as-| Dents—P. Goldman,
sistant manager of basketball, Dal-|chitz; J. T. Tokash, 4; Stein;
housie’s major sport, has no official | Rogers, 6.

C. Miller, 8

7:

Basketball, a Manager of Track, an|Dentistry, led the scoring with 11|

p.| day,

recognition. In spite of Section 2,
which states one man from each
faculty, custom has decreed that

Studley, largest and most dormant

Referee, Ted Crease.

MEDS, 34; ARTS -SCIENCE, 21.
The Doctors had little difficulty in

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

From looking over pre-schedule practices it seems unavoidable that Law will annex the Interfaculty Hockey title. Minus

the services of Jack Buckley, Law were defeated by the senior
team by a 3—1 score.

   

 

   

Harry Gaum, stocky Arts and Science pitching ace, is still
laying them down with his old skill and bids fair to lead his
team to the 1935 softball title. Pinehill, however, will provide
plenty of opposition.

 

The D. A. A. C. is to be congratulated on the installation
of much-needed additional equipment in the drying-room. Some
of ““Red’s” master-minding, no doubt.

 

Basketball at Dal seems jinxed with hard luck. The seniors,
having lost Oscar Serlin, are now hard hit by the loss of Sam
Fairstein, veteran star. Chuck Lorway, mainstay of the Intermediates, and leading scorer of that league, will likely move to
senior company. However, it is rumored that Leo Green and
Cy Miller, former senior players, will perform with the Cubs.

The senior city hoop league opened last Saturday when
Wanderers upset the dope by defeating the greatly favoured

|“¥” team by a 37—15 score. The game scheduled for Thurs
Jan. 31st, between the Tigers and Acadia has been postponed, owing to exams at Acadia. The Tigers will see action
for the first time in the league on Saturday, Feb. 9th, when

11; B. Lips-| they meet “Y” at the Y. M. C. A.

Acadia and Mt. Allison have the reputation of being colleges for athletes, but now Mt. A. has surpassed even its former
reputation. We learn that the hockey team, on account of a
publicity trip to Newfoundland; has been exempt from exams
which are now being held there. Incidentally arrangements
are being made for Mt. A. hoopsters to play a return game

body in the College, shall have but! taking a 13 point win from the Arts
one representative on the committee.|and Science team. With 91—7
‘lead in the first period, the losers
Article 9.
Election of Officers. : ;
hy : . |Seience with 10 points. As for Med_ Section 1. The Honorary Presi-|icine the scoring was divided well
_ dent Shall be elected at the annual among four: Stoddard, 9; Shandler,
_ meeting in March. The President,’ ¢. wociellan, 11; and Lebourtz, 8.
Vice-President, and Secretary shall Avth' aif Sétenée A Merkel” 1:
_ be elected at the general Council H. Ross, 10; A. Mackles, L. Kitz, 2;
elections. The Managing Comanitiee J. Rubizer, M. Lawrence, 4; H. Fenrile shall present tot he Council of the | dell, C. Tafsen, 2; I. McKeigan.
ecco * Hat ot ot lenst mix mom) Meds C. Stoddard, 9; N. Shandni OS for the positions of President, lov, 6; M. Cassell, H. Needleman;
__ Vice-President, and Secretary of the] pop Mieeilen. 14: J. Lebourtz, 8;
I _ A, A.C. The President shall be 8. ‘Chinchin.
_ the candidate receiving the highest| “por Lee Siimins:
“nun yer; the Vice-President the sec- Pern

    
   
   
 
 

i
ae

ar

a

      

b>’ ond“highest number, and Secretary | ————————__

hse fy the third highest number of votes. ‘These are only a few of the re
 . -———s—i‘s«Siintee the Interfaculty games are|marks that can be made. Have you
» played at Studley, with the excep-|any of your own? If so, speak to
tNee _ tion of hockey, it has been suggest-| your faculty representative on the
ed that the Vice-President, who acts|Managing Committee, who are as

as Interfactuley Sports Manager, | follows:

should be an undergraduate, He} Medicine—Eldon Eagles.

would then be more closely in touch| Law—Mike Hinchey.

with the activities over which he has| Dentistry—Ken Cougle.

charge. This is certainly a point} Studley—Henry Ross.

worthy of consideration, for an undergraduate has time and the posi-| We hear Mr. Dionne is applying
tion of Interfaculty Manager cer-|for a divorce. He claims that his
tainly takes plenty of that. wife is overbearing.

 
  
  
    
   
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
   
   
  

 

MEN’S
Gaionia Oxfords

Always Poll a Popularity Vote

 

There’s a new election every day. A continuous campaign for
public approval by the various makes of men’s shoes. No make
is ever elected favourite on a permanent basis, each must vie
for recognition every day that men’s shoes are sold. Eatonia

in and day out popularity is a remarkable evidence of
public confidence. The fact that so many men continually reorder Eatonia when they buy new shoes is undeniable evidence
that Eatonia policies satisfy—that here men get most for their
money—here is shoe satisfaction. These are the planks in the
—— platform—the policies that keep Eatonia in public

your:

Solid leather construction throughout.
A range of fittings which include sizes 6 to 11.
Authentic, good-looking styles for business and

dress wear.
BAFOAIS 4 50
Eaton’s—Second Floor.
ATO N

bem ARITIM

Pair

°

ee
v LIMITED

     

 

with the Tigers here in the near future.

The Commerce softball team is really athletic: four foot
 

ACADIA GAME POSTPONED

Basketball fans will regret to
hear that the Acadia quintette
will not meet the Tigers in the
regular scheduled City League
game here Thursday. At present
the brother collegians are in the
midst of exams and will be unable to make the trip. Much interest is being held in the meeting
of these two teams, Acadia being
one-time Eastern Canada Title
holders while Dal at present holds
the Maritime Title.

OBSERVER

Murray Ryan wishes it known that
his arm was not injured while reaching for a lunch check, as reported
at Shirreff Hall. It was done while

 

he was scratching his head, thinking
of something to write for the
Gazette,

A Freshie pre-Med, after studying
the Mendelian theory, called up
Prof. Bean and asked:

“Sir, if you crossed a string-bean
'with a baked-bean, would you get
Less baked, and high-strung, and two
half-baked little beans?”

The professor’s reply wasn’t recorded—the line melted.

 

Students in Ec. 3 were treated to
a thrilling sporting event last Thursday. Whistle, owned by N. E. Wind,
‘decisively defeated Whisper, owned
I by Prof. Maxwell, in the third round
of a scheduled four-round bout. The
rabble was dismissed at 3.15, when
the theory of exchange was knocked
hae arnatoeas in spite of Mit Musgrave’s efforts to save it.

Frosh Frolic

 

 

 

For the first time in its history
the Freshman Class on Tuesday
morning managed to hold a meeting
which was free from ribald remarks
and inability to decide on anything.
Joe Likely, class president, was in
the chair.

The principal item on the agenda
was the question of a class dance.
With little ado it was resolved to
throw a bang-up party in the lower
Gym on Wednesday evening,
18th, from 8.30 to 1. In all probability Laurie Hart’s orchestra will
be in attendance in their dapper
new uniforms, white jackets with

‘brass buttons, and tux trousers. All|

students are admitted on the payment of a certain sum of money.
Active in the discussion were Phil
Sargeant, Fred Barton, Jean Fitzgerald, and Phil Dumaresq.

After hearing Johnny Mullane,
hockey manager, present a_ wellgrounded plea for a portion of the
class funds, a grant was made him
to the extent of fifteen dollars.

see

 

| Valentine’s Eve

Feb. discussion.

never proved threatening. Henry|)a}) players, two from basketball, two from badminton, a stuRoss was high scorer for Arts and| gent, and a parlor cowboy, but none of them can play softball!
dent, and a parlor cowboy, but none of them can play sottball:

CUBS WIN FROM KING’S—58-20
Dalhousie Intermediates playing
‘three league games have lost but
one; scoring 189 points to their opponents 77. With a win over Tech
to their credit, and a loss to Wanderers the Cubs went through the
Kingsmen to the tune of 58—20.

From the beginning the contest
was rough enough for the most
‘blood-thirsty fans, as the referees
‘called 23 fouls; sixteen were against
Dalhousie.

The winners wére never in danger
and outscored Kings 25—5 in the
| first period. Simon, nimble-footed
left-forward who was replacing Edgar Stewart, accounted for ten of
these. A newcomer to local basketball circles he looked mighty good
Piast Thursday night as time and
‘time again his speed fooled opposing
guards.

In the second period the Dal team
continued their good work and opened up a greater lead. Lorway netted
nine more markers to bring his total
to fifteen for high score of game.
Archibald and the veteran Vic Regan
were the mainstays of King’s quintet that in general showed need of

 

practice and coaching.

Dalhousie—Lorway, 15; Sullivan,
6; Simon, 18; Murphy, 4; Lyall, 6;
Simmonds, 6; Dean, 5; DuBilier, 3.
Total 58.

 

A SUGGESTION.
It is felt by many students that an

innovation at the Gym in the way}

of an indoor tennis court would not
only meet with general
but, as well, constant use.

This move would merely mean the
| purchase of a net and uprights, and
\the painting of half a dozen lines.
Tennis in the summer time is one of
the most popular forms of exercise
with college students. If it were
provided at Dalhousie in the form
of an indoor sport it would undoubt'edly prove a great success.

How about the tennis manager
and the D.A.A.C. president going
into conference about this?

‘Sodales To Meet
| Friday Evening

On Friday evening, February 1,
a meeting of Sodales will be held in
the Munro Room, open to general
All interested are invited to be present. It is understood that at this meeting the president of Sodales will tender his resig‘nation from that office, and that an

approval,

 

election will be held at once to determine his successor. The time is
7 p.m.

| The Bennett Shield debate between the Freshman and Sophomore
| Classes has again been postponed,
this time indefinitely. Owing to a
conflict of activities it has been impossible to decide on a date that is
agreeable to all, in view of which
| this move has been made.

Eb Bee

January 31, 1935

THIS FILM
HAS THE
WHOLE
WORLD
CHEERING!

The Lives of a
Bengal Lancer

CASINO

Now

 

GRETA

Franchet Tone
Richard Standing
Sir Guy Standing
Kathleen Burke

FRIDAY to THURSDAY

\
with GARY COOPER , \

GARBO

IN

The
Painted Veil

 

 

Dents and Pine Hill Unbeaten
In Interfaculty Softball Tilts

Arts And Science Take Second Place in League By
Their Recent Win Over Kings.

Decisive victories continue to be the order in the Interfaculty Softball League, with Dentistry and Pine Hill both unbeaten. Those two teams are scheduled to meet for the first
time in a game this week, which should prove most interesting.

Arts and Science are in second place by virtue of wins over
King’s and Medicine-Law. Commerce-Medicine come next with
a game each to their credit, while the Frosh have yet to win a
game.
LAW, 34; COMMERCE, 20. Eng. collected eleven runs in the first.

By means of a 21-run third inning, | turn at bat which lead was kept for
Fraser Bentley’s Lawyers subdued) Petrie finished the game and took the |
the Commerce team for their first; honors as winning twirler. Errors
victory. The losers proved threaten-|by his team mates cost Ron Hiseler
ing throughout and in the sixth!|the game and chances for their first
found Big Don Ross for eleven} win.
scores. Abe Becker and Ross broke Comm.-Eng.: J. Proctor, 8b; L.
even on scoreless innings having| Petrie, p; T. Crease, p. and 1b; D.
two each. Bob Harrison was a big| Bauld, 2b; D. Saunderson, c; R. Harthreat at bat for the losers. rison, l.f.; W. Sutherland, ss; M.

LAW: A.-Thurlow, 1.f.; D. Ross,| Laurence, c.f.;
p; F. Bentley, c; J. Godwin, 1b; D.} Seperate
Redmond, 3b; B. McGillivray Lf. DENTS, 12; KING’S, ‘8

Comm.: M. Laurence, 2b; R. Rar-|FGraser Bentley’s Lawyers subdued
rison, c.f.; R. Homans, l.f.; T. Crease | found it no easy task beating the agc; D. Bauld, 1b; W. Sutherland, 2b; | gressive King’s College team. King’s |
A. Becker, p. took a six run lead in the first inning
but Dentistry evened it off Joe Willet, losing pitcher, but scoring six in
the opening of the second. In their |
turn of the second King’s added another run to take a lead. Three
runs each in the fourth and fifth put
Dentistry ahead, King’s in the meanconsistently making safe hits off|tibe got but a single run.
Graven, King’s twirler. Laurels go| King’s: A. Finlay c; N. MacMahon |
to Hutchins at second for the losers'3b; J. Orlando, 1b; C. Hutchins 2b;
who was outstanding ni the infield, ©. Prat r.f.; H. Prat ss; J. Willet p;

Arts & Se.: K. Kranz c; W. Horo-|T. White Lf. \
witz 1b; H. Gaum, p; A. Becker 2b;| Dentistry: P. Goldman ¢; K. ConA Mackles 3b; G. Simon ss; R. Ho-/gle p; P. Bloan lb; A. Cohen 2b; B
mans r.f.; N. Preiss, .l.f.; B Fer-| Lipschitz 3b; L. Brown ss; H. Helgusson, c.f. ifiech, lf; G. Simon r.f.; P. Stein cf.

King’s: W. Towbridge c;J. Graven —

 

ARTS & Sc., 12; KING’S, 4
Arts and Se. led by the pitching
of Harry Gaum, won over the highly
rated King’s softballers by a margin
of eight runs. Abe Mackles proved
strong at the bat for Arts and Se.

—$——S————————
<a ttttt i A

 

 

 

 

p; J. Orlando 1b; C. Hutchins 2b;| The Dawson Geological Club will
C. Pratt 3b; N. MacMahon ss; P.|hold the second of its winter series |
Willett c.f; T. White Lf. of discussion group meetings at the |
PINE HILL, 34; MEDS, 4 | Sigma Chi Fraternity Chapter
The Theologs continued unbeaten} House, 66 Edward Street, on Satur- |
in a one-sided victory over a weak-| day, February 2, at 8 o’clock. Mr.
erie Med team. Bob McLellan, re-| A. W. Wallace will be the guest

 

| Placing Hal Davidson, on the mound | speaker, having chosen as his subfor Medicine, was an easy mark for | ject “Pictorial Map-M
the Pine Hill willow swingers. Gordon for the winners pitched his'|
usual steady game, backed by a de-|
pendable team. Ten and nine runs'|
|respectively in the two opening innlings gave Pine Hill an early and
|undisputed lead which they added to
each turn at bat. The best Medicine
could do was score one in each of the
‘first four innings going scoreless for
'the remaining three,
Pine Hill: D. McLeod, ¢; Gordon,
p; L. Miller, 1b; J. MacLean, 2b; G.
| McKenzie, 3b; S. MacDonald, ss; H.
Watts, 1f.; D. Darrach, c.f.; C. Anderson, r.f.; J. Jarvine, ss.

Med.: H. Goss, c; R. MacLellan, p;
I. Epstein, 1b; C. Harris, 3b; R.
Aikens, 2b; C.° Stoddard, cf.; R.
Donahoe, |.f.; K. Gar ten, r-f.

aking’. |

EE EE A EEE EE

 

 

 

CAPITOL
Monday, February 11

 

 

 

 

“Let the Laundry do it”

81-85 West St. Garrick St,

Halifax Steam Laundry
ze Limited
el. L. 2300, L,. 2309, L. 16
Established 1877. 
|

|

COM.-ENG., 23; FROSH, 14
a nine run victory. After the Frosh
finding Ted Crease for five runs Lon
Starting off with a bang Comm.
G. A McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

 

 

 

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,

TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

On all Student call.
B-6070

 

 
