NV . ot D IT Fehler University Teaching Staff

_ Official Student Publication

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 4th, 1934

Re ‘ presenting tie English Universities, Robertson Crich
f Oxford University, and Leslie T. Jackson, of Cambridge
‘sity, will debate with a Dalhousie team here at the first
and Sodales Debating Society on October 23rd or there
. The subject will be, “Resolved that this house deplores

s¢ of Fascism”.
Trials for the debate will

be hala in the Munro Room,

est Building, at 8.00 p.m. October 5th. The debate is open

ll Dalhousie students. |

. Arranged by the National Council of University Students,
. debate will be the first of a series planned across Canada.
- Englishmen, according to information received here, have
ords comparing favourably with Ivor B. Jones and Hector
Neil, the British debaters who spoke here two years ago.

re Crichton, a Scotsman eduted at Seaberger School, York
, the Oxford ‘underHe is also in
fing “Quince” in the Reinhardt
“ ‘ nection of “A Midsummer

x rr, Shaledori, born at Capetown,

i : educated at Nottingham High
- School, where he was a Scholar and
 Gaptain of the School. At Trinity
Hall, Cambridge, he read Classics,
specializing in Ancient Philosophy.
Like Mr. Crichton, he has shown

ritish and Dominion Students’
mference at Geneva in 1933, was
tary and subsequently Chair
.| closing,

4 mbridge University Labour Club.
| a im opening the year with its major

Ca

4 te rest in debating. For me benefit. of the freshmen, Sodales ig ex
ing - society, Every student be
es automatically a member, ac
ve or inactive as he wishes. Later

e year, representatives will be

from the freshmen class to

e against the other classes in
ennett Shield series.

er Sodales activities have not

tings, an expanion of campus at.

ing and, if funds ere a trip

- Thursday, October os : He
deal with matters of interest
e students,

3 i is a continuation of the plan,

: 1 by Dr. Stanley last year, of
z the students together | and

to phere directly of matters

h men are, of course, invited

ne

| their studies.

‘the Sophs at Sherriff Hall.

‘University

Greets Frosh

Another fall, another freshmen
class, and another year is on its
way. But gone are the boys in outlandish uniforms and girls with
-|dark glasses and paint cans. Despite a few loud sighs, the frosh
sport only a ribboned beret.

Professor Hugh P. Bell, Head of
the Department of Diology at Dalhousie, officially welcomed Class ’88
to the university at the first meeting of the class held on Friday
morning.

Professor Bell, after extending
his personal welcome to all, stressed the pride and fraternal spirit
evidenced by all members of the
-}academic life throughout the world.
Continuing, he outlined the many
sides of college life and urged Class
38 to take an active part in extracurricular activities along with
He then traced the
idea of initiation through the centuries up to the present day and deplored the old and inefficient hazing
now banished from Dalhousie. In
its place is the spirit of encouragement and good will tendered to the
Freshman by the Sophomore. In
Professor Bell requested
the Freshmen and Freshettes to cooperate in every way with the
Sophomores in making this year’s
initiation a success.

Professor Bell then introduced to
the Class their representative on
the Students’ Council for 1934-35,
John Fisher. Mr. Fisher outlined
the system of student government
at Dalhousie and went on to discuss the student’s place in the

chaotic world of to-day. Then, plac
ing himself at their disposal and
promising to help them in any way
possible, he wished them “bon voyage” on their four year journey.

Later in the afternoon the Freshettes were taken to the Hall where
the Alumnae Society had arranged
a tea. Mrs. Stanley was in attendance.

In the evening, freshmen and
freshettes were initiated into the
social life of Dalhousie at a party
and dance given in their honour by
About
one hundred people were present,
including the usual crowd of seniors
anxious to get a glimpse of the
freshettes. The party was reputed
to be one of the best freshmen
parties on record. The chaperones
were Mrs. Murray Macneil, Mrs.
Hugh Bell and Miss McKean. The
committee in charge was Ruth Scaling, Shirley Stearnes, Gordon
Thompson and Art Merkel.

On Saturday a meeting was held

jin the chemistry theatre and fresh-|men costumes were distributed. Fol
or the lowing this, the frosh attended a

i peek ie" ie a
the first Gazette

on | general assembly at which professor

>. a and student discussed the relative
or r getaes: of Philosophy I and History |
In the afternoon, many of the
eshmen a. took adé ere, the

)

|

~S at Dalhousie University

Important Changes Made in First Entertainment Is

The opening of the new year Eide | Brats
many changes in the Dalhousie
staff, All told, there are five new
men: Dr. Lothar Richter, Dr. Martin Selherberg, Dr. R. Mae G. Dawson, Prof. J. S. Glen, and Geo. F.
Curtis. . In addition four former
professors have been re-appointed
or promoted. They include the new
Dean of Law, Vincent C. MacDonald, Prof. Geo. Crouse, Prof. John
Willis, and Assistant Prof. Gordon
MacCurdy.

A detailed account of several of |
-ality are warmly praised by those
'who have

the new men follows:

Professor Vincent MacDonald.

Professor Vincent C. MacDonald,
B.A., LL.B., becomes Dean of the
Faculty. Professor MacDonald won
the coveted Gold Medal in graduating from the Law School in 1920,
and, while practising in Halifax,
was a lecturer on the staff for seven
years. For a period, he was Law
Clerk and Counsel to the Nova
Seotia Legislature, and a frequent
contributor to legal periodicals. He
was assistant to the Royal Commission on Maritime Claims, 1926, and
private secretary to the Prime Minister of Canada, 1927. During 1928
and 1929, he was editor of the
Dominion Law Annotations Revised,
Dominion Law Reports, Canadian
Criminal Cases and Canada Annual
Digests. He was of the Counsel for
the Attorney-General of Canada in
reference to Water Powers, Supreme Court of Canada, 1928. Professor MacDonald gave up membership in a legal firm in Toronto to
return, as Professor of Law, to the
Dalhousie Law School in 1930, and,
since that time, has continued to
write. In becoming Dean, Professor MacDonald will fill the Weldon
Memorial Chair.
of this Chair was begun by a large
contribution from the Right Honourable R. B. Bennett in 1928.)

Dr. Lothar Richter.

Through a grant from the Carnegie Corporation Dalhousie University has been able to engage Dr.
Richter as Professor of German
Literature for the next two years.
Dr. Richter is an eminent scholar
and author. After prolonged studies
of the classical languages, he turned his attention to law and political
economy, and studied at three German universities and in England
and France. He secured two Doetorates in Political Economy and in
Law. For a while he taught Theology in the University of Rostock.
From 1920 to 1983 he worked in
social legislation for the German
Department of Labor, travelling in

(The endowment |

France and in England to study
their systems as he prepared drafts
of the German laws. At the same
time he lectured in the Lutheran
institution of Berlin-Spandau.

Dr. Richter has written several
books on social and political questions and on law. Forced to leave
Germany last year, he was given a
post in the University of Leeds. His
colleagues there, as well as many
other colleagues in Rostock and

| Berlin, write of him in the highest

terms. His scholarship and personinterviewed him on behalf of the Carnegie Corporation.

George F. Curtis.

In addition, the University has
appointed George F. Curtis, LL.B.
(Sask.), B.A., B.C.L. (Oxon),
Associate Professor of Law.

as

Mr.

Curtis had a distinguished course |

in the Law School of the University
of Saskatchewan. Winning a
Rhodes Scholarship, he went to Oxford in 1928, where he won a First
Class in Jurisprudence and a First |
Class B.C.L. He was a _ proxime
accessit for the Vinerian Scholarship. In addition to these high
academic honours, Mr. Curtis has
had very considerable experience in
the practice of Law, both before
and since his career in Oxford. For
the last three years he has been
with the firm of Gordon and Gordon, Regina,and has recently served
on the staff of the Attorney-General
of Saskatchewan, and as assistant
to the Legislative Council of Saskatchewan. He is a member of the
Saskatchewan Bar, and is highly

recommended by persons qualified to

judge his capacity as a teacher of
Law. Mr. Curtis has been active
in affairs, and is in request as a
public speaker.

Dr. R. MacG. Dawson.
Doctor Dawson will, in the temporary absence of Prof. Mackie,
take the classes of Political Science.
Doctor Dawson, B.A., M.A. (Dal),
M.S8c.,D.8.C. (Lond.), has an enviable record. Dalhousie is fortu
nate to have such a lecturer.

Prof. J. S. Glen.

Prof. J. S. Glen, King’s professor,
will replace Prof. Page in the Psychology Department. He was formerly with the University of Toronto.

Dalhousie students to continue
their studies this year in English
universities include Potter Oyler, at
law; Harvey Hebb, medicine, and
Bob Baird, medicine.

Can She Bake a Cherry Pie, Billy Boy ?

Is the fraternity pin, classic sym- mie Muir’s mind was to act at once.

bol of the love of college men for
college maid, to lose its place on the

campus ? Anxious male students.
whose pins are worn by others, 2~
wondering if the trend of fashic
swinging away fro~ the ri

ring: 2

“virls’

mand

prese

schoc

year

acti

chai

wo!

oth

Ji
T
v

He did; Marion said yes; and now

Marion Robb is managing director
* the Muir firm.

' ‘Worrel and Mary Simmonds,

figures have been seen at

nce together for the

‘cided that wait
k to become a

ste of time.

“from in
amonds.

‘ical

an

}

id

i

e

ts
’s
he
si
Presented by Glee Club

Registration
Shows Increase

The number of students registered |

ij
2

With many-hued lights playing am

la 10-piece orchestra behind a 4 pe

parent curtain, and singers, dancers
and  skirt-artists showing je
wares, Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic —

for the professional courses for the ‘Club got away to a fine start. for

term 1934-35 totals 288. The faculty |
of Medicine heads the list with an
enrollment of one hundred and)

usual, the first year class is
Naseast: containing fifty members.
The classes thus become smaller :
the years increase, second year containing forty-two students, third
year thirty-two, fourth year, twentyeight, and the final year twenty-fouz

Law, as far as numbers is con

imost popular of the
having a total enrollment of sev/enty-three, about three less than
last year. In this faculty
second year class
showing a total of twenty-nine stu
ating class is the smallest with
only nineteen members.
Last is the faculty of Dentistry.

seventy-six students, over twice the|.
| number of its closest contender. As|
the iF

la

coming shows.
cerned, shows itself to-be the second |

professions, |
:
| Jerry

the |
is the largest, | theme song had died away, “Sailor” |!

‘the year last night. {ae

The programme, considering | the 4
‘hustling that was required to get it
in shape, was excellent and vied —
with any produced last year, espec—
ially those of the same type. Harold —
‘Taylor is certainly starting his term

$8 | gs president of the Glee Club with

a bang, and if this premier showing —
was any indication of what is to follow, students may look forward to
lot of entertainment from the.

As the curtain slowly opened, 7
N- ; : = @
Naugler and his orchestra

were playing Dalhousie Dream Girl. }
After the strains of the college |

Ruth Skaling tripped onto the stage 1

\dents; first year is next in order|and clogged out a tap dance and
with twenty-nine, while the gradu-| sailor’s

hornpipe in true naval

fashion. -* @
Fran Gardiner, last year’s fresh-— 5
man prima donna, was on the stage | ‘

registering in all thirty-nine stu-|twice and sang three songs, imitat-_

 

dents, and thus showing the growing popularity of this profession,
which during the past few years
has increased twofold.

Registration in the faculties of
Arts, Science, Commerce and Engineering, having only started last
Wednesday, it is as yet impossible
to ascertain the exact number enrolled. First indications, however,
point towards a banner registration,
which when taken together with the
large enrollment in the professional
faculties shows the important part
that Dalhousie plays in Canadian
education.

BORROWED ?

Embezzlement at Dalhousie? Well,
it is something of that sort; if not
definitely a breach of the criminal
code, then a breach of confidence.

Last spring, graduating students
were induced to sign over their
caution deposits to the class executive, the total sum collected to be
used for something to benefit the
University. Although nothing definite had been decided, signors were
given to understand their deposits
would be used to buy subscriptions
to the Dalhousie Review, helping increase its circulation and giving the
students an immediate return for
their money.

But to date not a subscription has
been purchased; nor have any of the
graduates received a copy of its
recent issues.

The money was “borrowed’’, the
Gazette was told by a member of
the class executive, and used to pay
off bills of the graduation parties,
which many of the signors had not
even attended—hardly using it “to
benefit the University.” An attempt
will be made, it is understood, to
stage a party at a local hotel, the
profits of which will be used to repay the “loan”. In the meantime,
subscribers must be content to learn
the executive received the money
with no legal obligation to use it for
any one purpose and that with regard to their warranty to provide
Reviews, that no promise was made
ns to when delivery of the copies
would begin.

Several well known students are
on the class executives, some of
whom have returned for further

study. Life officers of class of oF | lenging and unroariously good time: | P

are:
al Vieo:
retary, Merle Purtill; Treasurer, Don
Stewart. Serving on the convecation programme committee were in- |
cluded the class officers, Hal Connor,
Charlie Lorway and Don Archibald.

President, Wayne MacKee; fee. Poees Saunders,

ing the fine performance of Ruth ;
Crandell and Connie Jost, who kept :
the house still and tense with their:
songs.

With his foot on a chair and a
mandolin on his knee, Lou Fig ae confidentially rendered about ie
best part of the night’s show. J er
crooning three perfect songs, ‘ ‘Blu i
Prelude,” “I Saw Stars,” and « =
sissippi Mud,” Lou even then found —
it hard to get off the stage for a
minute to bring back Steppin sam
and accompany him with musie ta
some intricate step dancing. ; a

A medical trio had some fun masquerading as women as they sang a \ j
couple of songs. The only trouble 1“
with them was that Doug Mur- .
ray’s dress was transparent and Gibbie Holland was eternally bitclonag
himself up. a

Freshmen learned other things.
last night besides the rudiments of a
glee club shows. John Fisher, their |

(Continued on Page Four) a

fi at
{
‘d
al]

Pre Term S.C.M. s
Confenmuain |

Following the practice of last
year, members of the S, C. M. of
Dalhousie-King’s held a conference —
at Miss Helen Marshall’s cottage at
Glen Haven. From the evening of
Sept. 26th until Sunday afternoon, os
Sept. 30th, was the duration of this,
year’s conference. The theme fc
discussion was “Personal Religic
for the Student and Practical R
ligion in the College.”

Under the capable and ee
leadership of Dr. J. A, Clark,

Clifford Grant, Maritime Secretar

of the S. C. M., Rev. J. Norrie An-"
derson, and Dr. H. L. Bronson, this 7
topic was very carefully analyzed.
Discussion periods followed each
address. In addition, reports were ;
given by the four students who had NG
the privilege of attending the Na-_ *
tional Council and General Confer-/ —
ence of the S. C. M. held recently
at Lake Couchiching, Ontario, and j
by committees dealing with Soars
Groups and Social Service. 4

The following students who feos ,
tended the Conference at Glen —
Haven report having had a chal- 24
Valker, Iris Clark, Wy

Margaret Pue- 4
Gilchrist, and Messrs. Bruce Fergu- ‘
son, Donald Robb, Glendon McCor- —
mick, Eric Meteor: Arthur Wilson,
‘Deug Allen, Bill Archibald, Baillie
MecKay and Bernie Graham.

 
naan scribe

hs so came to pass that the
of Bunk grew

4} weary and tired. He called unto

- evil a

himself all the children of Dal and

‘spake to them thus:: “I am being
our | Called to Great Landes beyond the

vou om | walls of Dal, and yea I must go;
|but before I depart I must beg one
_|of you to pick up the torche that I
|flingeth unto you. Carry on to tell

the tales of the men and women in

-|the lande of Dal and I will thus be
|content to rest in peace.” Then the

he 1p of ‘students on the
an Sabeasy. The Observer

nt . a view

‘the. es Anos: didn’t

as well as the Freshettes

rang should be the centre of

erowd’s attention?
r moved closer.

The ObIt was none

in Bot the Arts Build
$ you must play denis don’t let it

stronger than Old

ein of Observer’s scouts (yes, he
hy iat ink but no cubs—he’s single)

of

DE "There is no justice. Of course

| According to Able Seaman Scott,
n Australia the moustache is claim3 a place of prominence. So Bill,
to be outdone, and with the astance of the sale sea breezes, has
uyppeared back on the campus with
iA he place of prominence occupied by
Bee, cute pee one that makes

a Varnings an

_ Promises

L y_ Pen has become stale through |
5 er’s disuse and—whisper it |

0

has my brain. The nib

it ereaks and sputters protestas it writes, and—whisper it

fresh i too,) of the perils and

ities,

I

see “Mr. Bennett

rs ering slowly” to English II

ee eyes.

nately

And I even think
of the muddy side
alks. What is there in this kindly,
ipeaiad Bisce to bring dread or

lightness and some

nin’ . short, as Micawber

guld say, to be humourous.

My

| por-friend is probably right, and
f - would be the best treatment of

latter.

But I am going to dis
oint him (perhaps he will disint me, too, and not print this
e,) and be quite serious and

IT may

fulfil his wishes after

or is. not “brevity the soul of

. ak warn you freshettes and

ALINE

in your manner:

to be too eager, too

e accepts the services of such
smiling pity—and to be pitied

alhousie!

&

Nor again must you

2 high-hat (there is no other

. be arrogant in your
Dalhousie dislikes affecta
3 Don’t

“Professor” the pro
sors i _over the place—they

| the
mids otc
Mas. i= *
a be 7 “

r be called petal , or even

“upper

they cannot see any reapee and worship

Dal
new rulers of the Gazzyette, Suetherlande and Gouge, brother of
Thomas, pointed their fingers at one
and sayeth thou shalt be the new
man of Bunce, and by all that is
holy in this country of the Scotch
thou shall tell tales to the readers
of the rag.

2. Then did the new Chronicler
prostrate himself before Suetherelands and Gouge, and said he unto
them: Go your way and do not
grieve, for, lo, I am helpless unto
your biddings; and they went; Suetherelande bending his weary footsteps far beyond the land of Dal to
the region of OxeFord.

3. The Trumpeter blew long and
loud as the Green Frosh entered the
Pastures of Dal. Sons and Daughters from far and wide cometh into
the lands of Dal to be fed: Jonee,
‘|the son of Feescher, greeted them
with open arms, and spake to his
sheep in tender words: “Beware the
friendly Greeks bearing gifts, but
also beware of Latin. Be not afraid
of the harmless Sophs; they will
barke loude but they cannot bite.
Wear with pride the costume they
present you.”

4. Thereupon Ruthe of Skaaling
passeth to the frightened Frosh
their togs. The Sophs laughed loud
,|and long; the Froshs looked on in
* kitlence, awaiting the day of Reckoning.

5. But lo, there was a spark of
goodness in the Soph. For at night

they bringeth the weary Frosh into)

the strange Halls of Shee-ReffYawl, the mysterious fortress of
the Female, and the Sophs ask the
Frosh to dance and be merry. Beel
the Tall of Basketball fame has
turned to be waiter of the Frosh,
and the Frosh look up high and
wonder how the Sophs grew so
high. The Frosh make merry far
unto the night, till the famous
Keeper of the Keys to the Hall of
Mystery, she whom they name
Makkeene, shouteth it is time for

‘lthe little Frosh to be in bed. The

Frosh looked at one another and
decided to leave, hoping to come to
| Shee-Reff-Yall again soon, for they |

life of a Frosh is turning out to be
a pleasant one.
6. Into the Lande of Med large

am 6 warn the freshettes (an al numbers cometh to await the mighty

slaughter of Dawnee of Mayenland,
and of Beehen the Powerful. And
too there were large numbers who
were chased from the Realm of the
Cutters—their faces turned long
and lean. They wonder when they
will have the pleasure of gazing

and will think you a short-sighted
idiot. One more “don’t”—don’t become collegiate. That is the worst
sin of all. You must be proud of
Dalhousie and willing to stand up
for her, especially when she is
wrong, but don’t, and I repeat it,
don’t go around murmuring, with
that she’s my alma-mater ging in
your eyes,

“One, two, three,

U-pi-dee—

Dalhousie!”

Dalhousie, however, is not all
“don’t”, as you must be thinking—
I am taking it for granted that you
are still reading. There is plenty
to “do”. Read “The Gazette” each
week as if you enjoyed it; take in
every Glee Club show and don’t
ever let on you think it childish
stuff. Be contemporary. Some
young people imagine their minds
are twenty years more

them; they feel a thousand years
old and look down upon all the litile
common pleasures from an extraordinary height. That attitude does
not pay, believe you me. I say it
again: be contemporary.

One thought more and that the
most important. Set some valuation upon yourself and Dalhousie
will value yout

SUSIE SHIRREFP.

hed , }
 . arated

advanced
and experienced than those around

‘ “sas
; ey in

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

upon the Stiffe. But the allmighty Hhaze wieldeth ppluks in

the Biows and the Studes are seen|

no more, ’

7. But, alas, in the other regions
of the Forrest for a time much
sadness prevailed. The famous
ruler-he that playeth with his watch
and speaketh of the mudhooks was
gone. Gone unto the West to
spread learning unto our brothers.
Much weeping o’er his fate arose
from the Land of the Law as the
Men of Law wished him good luck
so far from his Land of Forrest.

8. But then it came to pass that
these tears were thrown aside, for
King Karl made known unto the
Lande that a mighty successor had
been chosen. It shall be none other
than the most learned man in the
law. The maker of the Laws himself; in short, to add another word,
it is no other than the greatest son
of the MakDohnald tribe — who
writeth more upon the Tablets of
the Law than one can ever read.

9. With this announcement a
mighty yell rose through the Halls
of Dal. The Men of Law shouteth
their praises long and loud and long,
drank of choice wines to the success
of the new Ruler of the Lande of
Law.

/

Freshmen

The following story was submitted by the Propaganda Department of the Students’ Christian
Movement; it was set up by the
printers before we had a chance to
see it. The editors wish to disclaim
all responsibility for it—our own
leaning is towards pink propaganda
—the raising of the proletariat and
the promotion of the revolution.

However, after reading the article a couple of times, we decided
to publish it for two reasons:

1. Because it might interest serious-minded persons who are interested in the S. C. M.

2. Because it brought a chuckle
and grin to the soulless and callous
individuals who write this
and we thought it might please our
readers that way.

‘If you are interested, the story
follows:

Did you ever have a
Have you ever felt wholly,

walking on air—that everyone you

have ever known was your friend |§
—that the world was a beautiful, | #

paper, |

thrill ? | |
completely and utterly that you were|§

 

(From an essay written by Judge
George Patterson in 1877.)

During the War of 1812 an expedition under the leadership of Sir
John Sherbrooke and Admiral Griffith set out from Halifax for the
New England coast. They succeeded in capturing Castine, a small
town on the coast of Maine, and
took possession of the surrounding
country. Castine was made the only
port of entry for the newly acquired
British territory and there a Customs Office was set up to collect
duties under tariff regulations similar to those of the adjacent provinces.

When the English evacuated Castine in April, 1815, they took with
them £12,000 which they had levied
through customs, etc., during their
seven months rule in that territory.
After the Lieut.-Governor’s. salary
was paid, £10,750 was left. The
Secretary of State for the Colonies
directed that this “Castine Fund”
be used for improvements in Nova
Scotia. Before any decision was
reached the Governor was recalled
to England.

The new Governor sent out by the
British Government was George
Ramsay, Earl of Dalhousie.
distinguished himself as an officer

in the Napoleonic Wars, and for his |

services at the Battle of Waterloo
i

who isn’t going to feel that they
have actually gained something by |
coming in. We have found something so marvellous and joyous in
it that we just have to pass it on
to others.

Watch for further notices concerning the discussion groups that
are going to be held this year.
Yowll be interested.

He had |

Fourtli Book of Bunk The F ounding of Hdthaudie

he was raised to the peerage with
the title of Baron Dalhousie of Dalhousie Castle.

Earl Dalhousie saw that the
higher branches of education had
been more or less neglected in Halifax and he desired to establish a
seminary modelled on that of the
University of Edinburgh. His plans
were whole heartedly supported by
the people of Nova Scotia and he
obtained permission from the Prince
Regent to invest the Castine Fund
as he had outlined.

After a grant from this fund had
been made to the Garrison Library,
£9,750 was left for the proposed
seminary. At the request of the
Governor, the Provincial egislature
voted £2,000 to supplement this
fund. A part of the Parade in front
of St. Paul’s Church was assigned
as the site for the new college. (The
present location of City Hall.)

On May 22, 1820, Earl Dalhouscie,
accompanied by the military and
naval officers stationed at Halifax,
laid the corner stone of the new
building in a colorful ceremony. Cn
January 13, 1821, Dalhousie was incorporated under “The Act of Incorporation of the Governors of
Dalhousie College.”

Shortly after the laying of the
corner stone, Earl Dalhousie left
Halifax to become the GovernorGeneral of Upper and Lower Can| ada. He was, however, succeeded by
| an equally staunch supporter of the
inew college, Sir Francis Kempt.
is a pity that his name has not vhs
commemorated in some way by this
college, for although not one of the
founders, he worked diligently to
secure funds to carry on the building.

It had been the custom of the
Legislature to make a handsome gift

 

October 4th, 1934

to a popular governor on leaving,
and they had voted a thousand
pounds for a sword and star to be
presented to Lord Dalhousie, but
this gentleman had declined to accept it. When Kempt asked for
another grant to finish the buildings, the Legislature voted that the
sum which had been set aside for a
gift to Lord Dalhousie should be
applied for this purpose.

It was not, however, until 1838
that Dalhousie went into operation
as a college, after several unsuccessful attempts had been made to unite
it with King’s College, then located
in Windsor. The Reverend Thomas

‘McCulloch, D.D., became the first

President.

Modern Ruins

The American heiress had just
come back from her first trip to
Europe, At dinner her neighbor inquired: “Did you see many picturesque old ruins during your trip?”

“Yes,” she replied. “And six of
them proposed to me.”

Quite So

A Dutchman met an Irishman on
a lonely highway. Each smiled,
thinking he knew the other. Pat,
on seeing his mistake, remarked
with a look of disappointment:

“I thought it was you, and then
you thought it was me, an’ it’s
neither of us.”

The Dutchman replied, “Yaw, dot’s
dhrue! I am anoder man, and you —
is not yourself; we both be some
other bodies.”

Americanized
A diner who had ordered a Swiss

re | wees sandwich on rye bread sud
t\denly decided to change his order
and asked the waiter if it would be
possible to"have an American cheese
sandwich instead.

The waiter nodded graciously,.
opened wide his mouth, and shouted
to the cook, “Naturalize that Swiss.”

Stories are like trees; they grow
taller with the passage of years.—
Aldous Huxley.

Where College Men Congregate

The
Ob
SHOP”

‘happy and glorious place, and that i

‘the people in it were more fun than.

Sai “ewieeh Hever. thus: Momies-the [7% had ever imagined people could |

be?

Have you ever been in a group of |

fifteen or more people in which
you could be perfectly natural? Be
honest—have you? A _ group in
which you could tell absolutely anything that you ever thought and
be sure that people would understand.
that, you are lucky because
what’s coming to you, and if you
have—well, you are just plain
lucky ?

time of your life carrying on and
then been able with the very same
people to be more serious and
really talk things over—well, hotfoot it for the S.C. M.

| If I had read this last year I’d
have thought it a piece of pretty

Rete advertising and. the S. C..

M.’ers a poor lot of evangelists.
panes you are thinking the same
boue Believe me, this is
written straight from the shoulder.
Re summer I have been at twr

C. M. Conferences—a Cer’

adian one up in Mr

where all the ¢

were  represe

Dal one dow

be quite f
tral Ce

with t”

trifl!

fe

t

)

4

C

al
fu

as

th

he 1
ian ae a

If you have never felt.
of |

If you have never been in|
a group of people and had _ the |

 

being |

DENTS’

Sends Greetings to Dalhousie men ,new and

old, with a special word to Freshmen and

new students—

When buying anything to wear, from Lab
Coats to Dress Suits, we are sure that it will]
be to your advantage to consult SHANE’S

first.

MARC he ete

Years of experience in catering to the needs of college men have
enabled us to adequately guage their tastes and to stock the
merchandise they like, at the price they can afford to pay.

Check this list now, and whether you wish to buy or not, come
in and get acquainted.

HATS—Priced from $1.65 to $5.00. GLOVES from $1.00 to $3.00

SHIRTS—From $1.25 to $2.50. SOX from 25¢ to $1.50.
SUITS — TOPCOATS — TRENCH COATS and OVERCOATS.

‘ors, they’s say—

ies Men’s Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

of 10 per cent. allowed Dal

Students.

 
 
  
 
 
      
    
      
   

i ;
|
v@ 2

 

“The Oldest College Paper in America”

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editors

F. E. GOUDGE
B. 6295

News Editor
ARTHUR MERKEL

Sports Editor
TED CREASE

Business Manager
Cc. D. WALLACE ROWLINGS

GAZETTE POLICY

The Gazette with all the responsibility its publication ens has passed into control of hands other than those that
guided it through the year gone past. The efforts of the editors

this year will be directed toward bringing to reality two functions of the Gazette. First it may act as a means of stimulating
r and as an adequate medium for the expression of latent literary
lent possessed by many Dalhousians, and second to present to
the students all the news of their University which will be of interest to them. In order to do this well we need the co-opera- tion of the entire student body.

+: Although we as editors have been primarily charged with

the presentation of University news we cannot properly interpret student opinion nor unearth embryo talent for our sub seribers and Dalhousians who have paid the ten dollar fee, without the aid of those who read this weekly publication.

As in the past, Literary D’s will be awarded at the conclu| Rion of the year to those contributors who acquire the necessary
twenty-five points. These points will be determined by two
-. members of the Faculty, thus assuring independent judgment.

2 a As already stated we do not lose sight of the fact that the
responsibility for the success of the Gazette rests principally
‘with the Editors. Yet every Dalhousian has an indirect responsibility and interest in the paper which attempts to serve student opinion and record their doings. A concrete expression of
this responsibility in the form of news stories or articles 1s what
we solicit. Intelligent, constructive criticism we desire. Destructive criticism we do not ask for. That will come in abund‘ant measure unrequested. With this perennial plea another
' year has begun in the annals of Gazette history. May 1934-5 |
_ find the Dalhousie Gazette still worthy of the position of the
oldest college paper in America.

 

 
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
    
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

2 ic
mw

ey ak

TO THE FRESHMEN

fo this year’s freshmen, The Gazette extends its welcome.
al Presumably coming here in search of higher education, we
i believe they have chosen well—we congratulate them on their
| judgment. Like every freshmen class, they will be deluged)
‘with advice, for every upper classman feels duty bound to give,
“his experienced aid towards helping them on their way through |
college. Our only advice is that they should go their way,
regardless of what others do and what others tell them to do. |
We advise them especially to beware of the advisor who urges|
taking only ‘practical’ subjects—he is never so practical in
the long run. Equally to be shunned is the fellow who dog- matizes on getting a “liberal’’ education—sometimes he misses
the woods for the trees. The freshmen can probably find many
new things that ought to be done at Dalhousie and it will be to)

Dalhousie’s benefit that they do so.

But if they are invited to go on their own way, it should |
| be made clear to them there is a difference between liberty and |
license. They should have liberty to work out their own|
problems but not license to bother other students. The new-|
comers have been allowed to study here without going through |
the inquisition of initiation because the majority of the older
Students felt they could safely do it without needing to be)
purged of the usual freshmen’s licentiousness—objectionable |
attempts to get in the limelight. We believe the freshmen will
come up to expectations; that without the initiation, they will
settle down to become Dalhousie students, ready to uphold the.
University’s traditions—at least as well as present students
have done. | |
To the freshmen it might be pointed out that a ee |
t

 

- by its very name, professes to teach universal knowledge.

and faculties are taught.’

r early training on this campus.

The Gazette wishes particularly to welcome “freshmen” to

10usI L. Riehter, new German professor; Dr. R.

MacG. Dawson, who takes Dr. MacKay’s place in the Politica
nee Department; Prof. G. F. Curtis, new Law lecturer, and

Martin Silberberg, medical professor.

Exiled from Germany because he dared believe in free
nment, Dr. Richter has settled at Dalhousie. Here, safe
4 persecution, he may carry on his work and give a tolerant
‘€ducation to young people. The student body welcomes him,
_ and expresses its
— Sib e for him to come. We extend similar greetings to Dr.
¢ berberg, and wish him success in his foster land.

Professors Dawson and Curtis, coming from inland Sashewan to this -college-by-the-sea, are equally welcomed to
1 the ‘Dalhousie tribe

ralized”’

before long.

scattered over the North American continent who received

1| the corpses
.

gratitude to those persons who made it pos-.

and The Gazette feels sure they will

DALHOUSIE

COMMENT

MARITIME UNION.

 

The summer of 1934 has been un- |
precedented in the interest that our
various ministers have placed in
economic and political commissions.
In Nova Scotia there is the Jones
enquiry, and in New Brunswick
Premier Tilley has attempted to
survey the lumber situation. Also
there is the Maritime Confederation
league which argues that a ressurgance of activity would result if the
B. N. A. Act was revised and the
Maritimes given their rights. These
investigations have once more
focused the spotlight on the heated
question of economy through Maritime Union. It is held that the
Maritimes are over governed and
the solution is one government for
the three provinces. Economy
schemes, particularly in this country, are always to be commended,
but Maritime Union seems to possess some impregnable difficulties.

Firstly the Maritimes represent
three economic units—P. E. Island
is purely agricultural; Nova Scotia,
the most diversified, is concerned
with fishing, coal mining and fruit
raising, whereas New Brunswick is
dependent on mixed farming and
lumbering. In unity these differences would be pronounced. The
difficulty of the Federal parliament |

GAZETTE

Rambling

“The Moving Finger writes; and,
having writ, moves on.”
Omar Khayyam.

Shirking Your Way Through
College.

A former President of the University has said: “The name of ‘Dalhousie’ stands for an honest education, barren of show, but solid,
sterling and substantial.”

What is an “honest education’?
While application to studies is important for the germination of the
mental faculties, mere ‘“greasygrinding” is surely not enough. Development by means of social contacts is also necessary to round out
the individual character. The educated man must thus be the fullydeveloped man.

Since we attend college supposedly in order to acquire an education,
we should keep this ideal constantly before us. But, woe is us, the
vast majority of Dalhousie students
do not practice what we preach. It
seems possible to group students
under three main heads, in order of
ideal importance; and in inverse order of present numerical importance,
as follows:

(1) Our ideal students.

(2) The partial  shirkers;

 

 

 

Gazette

Book Review

BERTRAND RUSSEL’S MEN OF
DESTINY

 

 

(Freedom versus Organization)

Here we have one of the most important social articles that the astute pen of Bertrand Russel has
yet produced. Some folk harbor the
idea that he did not become interested in the economic and political field
till comparatively recently and that
he is a sort of interloper there.
They overlook the fact, however,
that Mr. Russel’s “German Social
Democracy”, disregarding his works
mathematics, physics, psychology,
education and_ scientific method,
would have been enough to win him
a high reputation.

The volume opens with an account of Napoleon’s successors in
guiding the destinies of Europe.
Here we read of Prince Rupert that
“elderly beau much ashamed of his
corpulance and too greedy to take
any steps to cure it.” Following
this rapid sketch of the chief political events and figures there is a
study of the social background of
the early nineteenth century, of the
aristocracy, the country life, the
hideous industrial conditions with
children working fourteen hours a
day and longer. ‘Napoleon had been

the | defeated by the snows of Russia and | SPe”

Page Three _

Stereotypes

of Students

THE THEOLOGCAL STUDENT

The theolog is the most unpopular student on the campus,
even surpassing Engineering and
Law students. But this unpopularity is unfair—sometimes he acts
humanely.

 

His unpopularity, and he feels it at first, makes him self-conscious.
So, as a defence, he is either loudmouthed or super-sanctimonious.

He has an easy time at college.
He does not have to worry about
passing—after four or five years in
an Arts course he knows he will be
admitted into theology. And he always graduates, sine plucko, three
years later. We won’t say anything about what he drinks, but he
probably smokes like a fiend and
never misses a show, walking miles
to see Mae West, for instance.

There are only two species of
theological students at Dalhousie
| (thank God, the rest go elsewhere):
| Church of Englanders and United
'Churchmen. If your theological
|student is a Church of Englander,
|he spends his time trying to be one
'of the boys and at the same time
| preserve his dignity( as such). If
'he belongs to the United Church, he
ds his spare time playing pool

would prevail, that is sectional in-| bookworm, the socialite, and the | the children of England. The part at Pine Hill and memorizing the
|played by the snows of Russia was

terests. Nova Scotians would vote |
for Nova Scotia and likewise with
the other provinces. Why discard
a system that is free of this weak- |
ness? It is ridiculous to think that
traditions can be banished over
night. Established business, political
and social customs of 150 years can
not be easily discarded and others
substituted therefor.

Secondly. it is held that Union
would reduce the number of officials.
Let us take the Department of
Health. One minister would replace
three, but there would be the same
work, the same territory to cover
and the same problems. This would
lead to the appointment of many
deputies. The saving would be very
slight despite the reduction in cabinet ministers, but the high cost of
government today is not to be confined to the number of officials but
rather to the demands of the popu- |
lace and the graft of appointments |
and public contracts.

Therefore is one to infer that
Union will obliterate these inherent
qualities of human nature. Graft |
and corruption have always existed.
People will always demand sectional
attention. Furthermore the chances
of corruption would be magnified
under Union: The present complex
financial systems allow a certain
amount of cover for graft, but a
very definite limit is placed on the
opportunities for grandiose manipulation by dishonest officials: If the
Maritimes were a single unit would
not the one’ system of financing al-|
low.a much wider scope for ab-|
sconding ?

Another objection would. be the
traditional cost brought about by
the change itself. It is difficult to
estimate the expense of such an
outlay, but it would be considerable |
indeed. The seat of government
would likely be at Moncton. The
rivalry itself would create ill will.

 

 

is a school, as Johnson defined in his dictionary, ‘where all arts | The delegates would come— from
n Here at Dalhousie, the freshmen | greater distance, in fact all the hanwill find they can study whatever is to their liking. If.they dicaps of thangs would.cxistt Mite
cannot find their subject carried to a high degree, at least they
can develop a good grounding which will serve them later in
y other University to which they should go. The Law School |
_is perhaps the most widely known of the Dalhousie fagulties..

Sut the Arts and Science school, if not as highly thought of
In the public mind, has a high rating in educational eenters.
e are a large number of college presidents and professors |

once established, as was pointed
out, the reduction of ministers
would not seriously reduce costs
and the chances for sectiona
ests and vice would be greater
deed.

in
|tained is the partial removal,
| least,

1 inter
acknowledged since it could be at
'tributed to Providance but the part

‘played by the children of England

athlete.

(3) The absolute. shirker, who}
does nothing perfectly.

It is left to. the individual to

choose his respective classification.
But why, in the name of that ideal
student, Rosy Payne, should we not
keep our ideal in mind, get from
college what we presumably came
to get, and choose the best? In other

words, why not really work our
way through college, (and enjoy
it), rather than shirk our way|
through? Thus endeth the first)
lesson.

Hazing.
Last year hazing was abolished

at Dalhousie. Comparing the fresh
results of this abolition with the
well-disciplined and “class-conscious” freshmen of the past, the
present writer is dismayed. While
deploring unnecessary roughness in
de-freshing the Frosh, we are firmly convinced that some method of
adequately controlling and unifying
the newcomers is desirable.

We must face the question squarely and consider all its ramifications,
On the one hand, improper hazing
may result in unfortunate  accidents, and the accentuation of the
“inferiority complex” of the timid
freshman. It may be said, of course,

that it is impossible to obviate these |
evils in any system of hazing. On |
the other hand, even if the forego- |
ing is true, and we do not think so, |
these evils may be outweighed by |

the benefits obtained.

The most obvious benefit
at
of any objectionable . freshnessS from the newcomer.
into

of the freshmen 3

in

which the timid student loses his
timidity, and from which all college activities tenefit. . The best

men are brought to the frent and
the poorer ones are given a chance

to make the most of the: opportuni- |

ties offered them at Dalhousie.

‘In the final analysis hazing ful-|
it gives, some
fils its purpose.
at paradoxically, all freshmen a
helpi: ¢ hand along the hard, exnmbeset

and, in welding them together, it

The Maritimes have not the need of | Wwckens all college activities and

a political union but the need of co-|
operative thought is urgent indeed.

The road to Ottawa is strewn with
of various
the Maritimes wh

5
:

claims from

pressure,

If these provinces would

‘then be felt.

;
:
:

 

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
Ast B.7376

Service

| Lowest Rate to Students.

 

\unite in claims their strength would |

augments our relatively
istent college spirit.

non-ex
 

 

‘ovincial | } °
cs whicr || Student’s Special

have failed because of insu ‘Ticient |

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25
Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

e 9 o .
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors

“None better—anywhere”

 

‘teenth century.

lucid and effortless prose, the same |

 

of- |

A result |
even more important is the. welding |
compact |
|class, with a real class spirit,

road of Higher Education; |

was passed over in silence since it
was shameful to the men of England.” Mr. Russel next takes up
Philosophical Radicals, the British
school of thought centering around
Malthus, Bentham, James, Mill and
Ricardo. “They were a curious set
of men; rather interesting, quite
without what is called vision, prudent, rational, arguing carefully
from premises which were largely
false to conclusions which were in
harmony with the interests of the
middle class.”

Mr. Russel’s volume covers a
period from 1814 to 1914. It was
originally projected as a political
and economic history of the nineBut without overshadowing the dicussion of broad |
social problems, the author’s inter- |
est has centered chiefly in certain
outstanding individuals and in their
ideas. The disciples of Mr. Russel
may expect in this volume the usual

 

wit and humor that is his alone.
Likewise this volume, more than
any of his previous works, gives unlimited scope for character portrayal.

|rest of the Bible, which he quotes
ipse dixit, to settle every argument.

Theological students are favoured
by fond mothers. Being sure of a
job when they graduate, they make
a good “catch”. Accordingly, the
theological student is well fed.

College residences, for some reason or other, are always built for
theologs. They stay there so long,
they get control of student activities. And the other students join
fraternities. Though they enjojy all
privileges, they never pay as much
as common students, and there are
so many scholarships for “young”
and deserving theological students”,
every student gets one. Same even
get paid a bit when they leave—
surpluses of their scholarship over
bills.

all

as

Fortunately theological students are not depicted here.
Some are earnest, widely read and
fluent conversationalists. They will
laugh at this. They will be successes in the world. Of the others
in the world, one thinks of the maxim, “nemo dat quod non habet.”

“WHEREVER YOU GO
DEMAND

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

DRUGGIST

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

Nickerson @ Crease
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce.

574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

BIRKS

Fraternity Pins
Jewelry depend largely on the

and Class

skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges
in the Province.

Sketches and quotations gladly submitted without charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

DONOVAN’S

BETTER BEVERAGES”

 

    
 

HALIFAX STEAM LAUNDRY
Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.
“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West Street
Garrick Street

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

B-6070

 

 

 

WINNER FROM THE
START

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you
play the game with the best
that’s in you.

Cragg Bros. Co.

Limited.
Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N. 5.

 

 
   

  

‘ows Ck prove | a title
a The Acsitia Axemen are to

  

ee haplae half fast season,
d cadia now has. a backfield which

  

 
 

i ne Chachi MeCarthy of Dalhousie
ee fi jul started practices in August and a
chp ithful few answered the call. Dur; ing the past two weeks nearly two
s is full squads have turned out to daily
, ae ee and are rapidly rounding
_ into shape. The chances of the
- Gold and Black to cop the title this
Br year are somewhat dubious and the
team’s ability will be in doubt un; ¥ til Saturday. At the present time
the scrum severely feels the loss of
me a two veteran stars in Doug Murray |
and Percy Sheppard, but two new
faces in the line up, Krebs and
Becker, add a tower of strength to
o. pack. The Tiger scrum will at
least be heavy. Despite the loss of
Bernie Ralston the Bengal backfield has improved over last year.
- Carl Stoddard will probably be seen
- ioe his old position at scrum half
with the veterah Bud Thompson at
outside. The flying feet of Henry
| Ross, crack sprinter, on one wing,
bi Do Jim Crosby on the other, are
destined to give the opponents
plenty of headaches. Jack Buckley
and Doug Crease are likely selec_ tions for centre three-quarters,
while Hal Connor and his educated
toe will patrol the fullback position
for his fifth year. Big Mon Ross
will be very much in the game this
year, as will Gerry Tanton, Bud
Peters, and GordonDarrach.

‘ As the tentative team practices
: “Bye little or no opposition, its

  

   

  

  

  

     
     
     
   
   
    
     
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
    
  
 
  
   
    
    
      
   
   
    
    
    
  
  
    
  
 
   
     
   
  
    
  
 
    
  
      

i a
-” * it

*.

tential power cannot be deter
ed, but Dal~supporters may de
pend on “Mac” to put a good side

- on the field of play for the league
opener. Only Saturday will tell.

D.A.A.C.Heads

a
&

¢

. ie season is well under way.

ecutive position.
filled election promise.

seriously considering the move.

  

Criticized

a The D. A. A. C. heads who started
out last year to reform Dalhousie

sportdom have as yet done nothing.

The present executive who pledged
themselves to raising the standard
r -—s of Intterfaculty Sport have as yet no
_ plans for the current Interfaculty
_ football season,although the football
In addition, one of these wouldbe reformers threatens to resign from his exJust another unA few
stormy meetings have been held but
have produced nothing but argu-_- ments and a move to control athletic
funds that are now under the juris, diction of the Students’ Council. The
. DD. A. A. C. has for years been a
most inactive institution and at the
last student élections the present
| —s officers promised to bring it into its
A own. Vice-President Richardson has
not as yet made his resignation official but it is well known that he is
It
fi is the Vice-President’s duty to organize and carry out Interfaculty
sport programs; if Mr. Mr. Richardbe son backs out of the office which.
last spring he was so eager to have, filled. Ambition should be made of | ‘seeventh last pare PRGreE
pee nite Sport, especially foot-| sterner stuff!

 

 

American Football
Team is Organized

Play St. Mary’s Saturday

After last season’s successful exhibition of the American game be
|tween Dalhousie and St. Mary’s the

local followers of the sport have
taken steps to make the game a fixture in this part of the province by
forming a three team league. All
the glamor and excitement that
goes to make up the American
game, which incidentally is very
similar to the Canadian game as
played in the Upper Canadian provinces, will be first presented to the
fans on Thanksgiving Day, as plans
are already finalized. At a meeting
on September 26 of the coaches and
promoters three teams were entered
in the circuit, namely, St. Mary’s
College, the Ardmore Athletic Club,
and Dalhousie. The promoters intend to have programs, numbers,
and other information printed for
the benefit of the spectators. It is
also planned to supply all the players with uniforms. The teams have
all been practising strenuously in
preparation for the contests, the
first of which will be played on
Thanksgiving morning, October 6,
between St. Mary’s and_ Dalhousie.
If the match is as good or better
than last year it will be well worth
seeing.

An interested fan has kindly donated a trophy for the league, the
schedule of which follows:

Oct. 6—Dalhousie vs. St. Mary’s.
Oct. 18—Ardmores vs. Dalhousie.
Oct. 20—St. Mary’s vs. Ardmores.
Cct. 27—St. Mary’s vs. Dalhousie.
Nov. 2—Ardmores vs. St. Mary’s.
Nov. 3—Dalhousie vs. Ardmores.

 

Coach McCarthy
Is Scored

Dalhousie Coach McCarthy is generally conceded to be unequalled as
a coach in the Maritime Provinces,
and his team from Caledonia have
proved this to be true. Still, every
system has its flaws and “Mac” in
turn has forgotten something. May
we remind the coach that he is developing only one team, that he has
paid no attention to the Cubs who
have in former years been almost
as good as the Varsity. A few years
ago the Cubs were undefeated for
two years, and again in 1932 they
swept the league and defeated the
senior aggregation in two successive exhibition tilts. The reason
was because the Cubs were developed and coached just as much as
the seniors. There were two
coaches then and “Mac” can’t be expected to do two men’s work, but it
would help if he coached the scrubs
in fundamentals. Minor injuries
have been numerous through inefficient tackling solely because many
have never been shown how to bring
a man down. Because the Cubs
have not been coached the Varsity
has no opposition in practice and
the former seem destined to warm
the league cellar for another year.

 

 

ball, will suffer a serious delay in
getting under way, and Messrs.
Thompson’s and Richardson’s election promises will have gone unful
 

   

DALHOUSI

“Will

E GAZETTE

 

Be Very Much in The Game”

 

SPORT REVIEW

By TED C

Dalhousie opens the current rugby

campaign this Saturday against
Halifax United at the Wanderers’
grounds.

Manager John Proctor opines that
this year’s fifteen is an improvement
over last year’s aggregation. Several veterans are missing but never- |

Just before press time )
Sheppard, star forward of the past |
two years stated that he will be
very much in the game this year.
This will be welcome news to Coach
McCarthy. )

Dalhousie may well be proud of

REASE R

 

Dalhousie should cop the Maritime

Teennis title again. It’s

a habit.

The football and basketball teams
will severely feel the loss of Ber
nie Ralston, who has returned
his old Alma Mater, Acadia,
year.

to

this

The Gazette extends its congratutheless the team looks fairly good.|lations to Aileen Meagher on her

Games this summer.

ln . . *,* ~ .
Perce | fine showing in the British Empire

Dal Tennis Under Way

Last Friday with the Fresh
;man Trials at Carleton Courts

three students who distinguisheded | tennis at Dalhousie got off to

themselves in local tennis ranks this |
summer by gaining provincial rankings. Don Bauld was ranked fourth, |
Don Saunderson eighth, and Fraser
“Gump” Young tenth.

The American football season
makes it local debut next Monday
morning at 11.00 a.m. when the
Dalhousie eleven tackles the St.
Mary’s outfit.

It is rumored in authoritative circles that Physical Director W. E.
Stirling will handle the 1934 cage
squad, with Prof. Jim MacDonald
assisting. It shouldn’t be a very

last year‘s Maritime Chempionchie |
team on deck. Anywoys, good luck,
Mr. Stirling.

In regard to a recent statement
in the local press that women competitors in the British Empire
Games spoke
voices and shaved, Frankie Nicks,

a good start.

and as a

The newcomers
iplay a good brand of tennis,
result valhousie

is

looking forward to a successful
defence of the Intercollegiate
Tennis Crown, won last year at

Mt. Allison.

In this competi
tion Dalhousie racket wielders
won by a score of 7—9, due
chiefly to the splendid efforts

of Misses Fraser,

Critchon,

Holman and Walker. The men
'were less fortunate and failed

‘to win a match.

As this paper goes to press
tough job what with all but two of | Don Bauld, Manager of Tennis,

is looking

forward to final

trials on Thursday, when the

team will be chosen.
himself is only 4th

Bauld
ranking

player of Nova Scotia by the
way. He has denied intentions

‘will

in deeep masculine |of playing, but we expect Don
be laying his shots or

a local entrant, in conversotion with | those back lines when Saturone of our students, stated that this|day comes along. On that dav

was so, but the persons in question | Dal will take Acadia on, and if

weere really women.

Now that the the girls have a new
physical director again, we should
hear from them in the _ sporting
world in a big Way. os

With three ranking net stars in

| college, plus Mit Musgrave, ranked

ole for|;Helen Holman, Betty Miller,
| Don Saunder- |
‘most of the feminine stars of 1933, son, Vic Oland, John Gladwin.

‘consideration this summer, and/|

‘34 DANCE

 

NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA

all goes as expected they will
meet the winner of the U.N.B.

vs. Mt. A.
week some time.

competition next

Among the students who will

probably make the _ trip

to

Acadia will be: Isabel Freser.

Mit Musgrave,

 

 

 

 

 

PER COUPLE

 

Certain Halifax business
firms advertise regularly in the
Gazette. We wonder if all Dalhousie students realize how
much this advertising means
to the paper and consequently
to the University. Were it not
for advertising, many papers
would have to go out of business, and were it not for advertising the Gazette could not
be published as often as it is
published, and probably not at
all. In view of these facts,
those merchants who help to
make the publication of this
paper possible ought to be
given the break by all Dal‘housians. We do not mean that

whether or not a certain store | offered for the best composition of

advertises, should be the sole|
‘factor in ‘placing our patron
‘age. But we do maintain that

‘it ought to be a determining
factor, and that, where prices

land quality are equal, the mer
 

ant who advertises in

   

October 4th, 1934

OUR ADVERTISERS | First Entertainment Is
 

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE) ©

representative, introduced a newcomer to college, Roger Rand, formerly of Acadia, where he was
cheer-leader extraordinary,
then the frosh were taught the fam
ous Tiger battle-cry (famous in that.

“]_2_3 upidee” is sounded less often than the yell of any other college). And Chuck Lorway was up
to old tricks once, more when he
was teaching newcomers
songs known here and there on the
campus and even heard sung once
in a while. :

But. all things must change. In
an effort to increase college spirit,
it was announced a prize would be

a new yell.

Another thing that happened last
night

was Harold Taylor’s first
speech as president of the club. He

‘expressed appreciation for the co
'operation he
the |
eollege paper ought to receive

‘the preference. Next time you |

sally forth to pick up a new
‘suit or dress, just glance over
the Gazette and find out what

‘business houses are helping to

send this paper to you.

 

BIOLOGY I

Antonios’ Counter Part

in the student’s breast held
sway;
A pall of darkness closed around,

And dark despair a refuge found.

|The ogre walked around in glee,

His helpless victims dare not flee,

| But each surveyed his thumb anew,
|And sadly watched it turn to blue. |

 

The boys filed slowly to the desk,

And weakened, weary, ‘gainst i
pressed.

The girls, though trembling, bravely |
stayed,

While quietly they watched and
prayed.

The boys punched wildly, jabbed and
stuck,
Til each succeeded by good luck.
The girls looked on with glazed eyes
“What fool says ‘Earth
dise’.”’

is Para
At last remained one boy alone,

There sounded forth a
groan,

He glanced about, his visage white,

While murmured he, “It must be
right!”

heartfelt |

i Ch ‘set for just before Christmas.
The Classroom wrapt in silence lay, |
;

Fear

'all the shows
\ing year,

received from those
taking part in the show,

Nothing was said about plans for
future shows, but it is known the
president is keen “to at least equal
the fine standard set by Jimmie
Gray,” last year’s Glee Club leader.
And the new president is credited
with the ambitious plan of produeing a full three-act play, which, if
successful, will make a tour of a
few towns in the province. That is
Another show planned for near the end
of the college year is a big musicale. Just what the freshmen show
next month will be has not yet been
decided. Referring to the quality of
planned for the comthe president declared, “If

|they want them to be good they’ll

have to give me some help.” None
of the so-called modesty for Harold.

|'He wants a lot more to be on hand

 

With heavy mien, determined look, |

He laid his own slide on a book.

The hero neither winced nor sighed

As blood gushed out on each girl’s
slide.

And when the girls, protesting cried

Then cheerfully laughed and lied

“What is one drop of blood,” quoth
he,

“One drop, in all eternity ?“

SAT., MON., TUES.

The Arabian Nights
Come to Life!

“CHU
CHIN

CHOW”

The Greatest of All Musical
Comedy Spectacles.

2,238 Performances at One

Theatre!

 

9 to 2

 

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 8th.

 

 

., | for his productions than has been

the case for some years past. “Here’s
|to bigger and better Glee Club
shows!” will be a campus slogan

1
this year.

A severe blow was struck behind
Glee Club scenes this fall when it
was learned Bob Whitz, former prYoduction manager, was unable to re
turn to continue his couse because

of illness, and officials are still
scratching their heads to decide who

| will fill his place.

 

 

Halifax Transfer

Phone B. 7138

 

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY ST. L. 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount.
Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for complete Suit or Overcoat.

   

  
   
 

CASINO

Now till Friday, October 5th.

DAMES

Warner Brothers’
Greatest Musical.

14 STARS.
Hundreds of Glorious Girls.

COMING

“Caravan’”’
“Dragon Murder Case”
“Sorrell & Son’

 

«$1.25

and.

certain.

 

     
     
      
  
  
        
    
     
        
 
     
    
    
      
        
    
       
       
  
      
    

   
 

     
    
     
        
  
 

 
  

 
