’
+,
i ”
aa

*xV

Official Student Publication oe

~

~ Munro Day Celebrations
Officially Set For March 14

| e Offical Date For Munro Day Has Been Changed From
sid Wednesday, March 13, to Thursday, March 14.

Gordon Thompson, chairman of the Munro Day Commit
_/
tee,

designed to be instituted as an annual event.

has announced a new competition as part of the program,

This is a com
parison between Studley and Forrest Building students in three

events,

basketball, softball, and tug-o’-war, to take place in the

afternoon. The prize is to be a felt shield, having the univer
sity crest as its centre-piece, surmounted by “Munro Day.”

Two dances will be held, a tea

dance and an evening dance after
‘the Glee Club presentation,

the
music for both being Jerry Naugler’s. The Glee Club has decided to

produce the musical comedy “‘Anita”’. |

In all probability the newly-elected members of the Students’ Council

will be introduced to the students

during the course of events. The
co-operation of every student is
earnestly solicited in order that the
day may be made as complete a suc‘cess as it should and can be. This
is Dalhousie’s Day.

Myriad Microbes
Maul Many Maids

Their ranks riddled by sickness
and disease of every nature, the
students of Dalhousie and King’s
have been wandering around in a
daze lately wondering who will be
the next to fall by the wayside. One
person goes home for the rest of the

 

-- year, another is rushed to the V .G.,
another to the Infectious Disease

jes ¥ e sy = E
___ Hospital, and so—on and on and on.

ot camptar t e

 

pa z of the season so far as basketball is
- eoncerned, having suffered a badly

f

- Shirreff Hall Notes

am

>
+

.
ye

ae |
A _

7
7

are carried upstairs.

' E 5 sprained ankle, which is keeping her
Panneso hey Toon o° ~~

For seyen successive days at the
King’s residence each day was marked by a victim to that dread malady,
“Measles”, which has also been taking its toll at Shirreff Hall. Infiuenza stalks our every step. Many
are the casualties. Miss MacKeen
has been confined to her quarters
with it. The Hall infirmary is full.
Many rooms are taboo. Nurses have
been stricken. Maids have gone
under. New nurses and new maids
have been secured. Countless trays
On Saturday
night only seventeen girls were present at dinner. Each recovery is
marked by one or two more illnesses.
City students too have sujected in
many cases to enforced confinement.
Professors sadly gaze on empty
seats.

Tonsils, appendixes, sprained
joints, measles, conjunctivits, colds,
influenza, and broken limbs are only
slightly representative of the plague
that has cast its shadow over the
dainty co-eds and husky lads of Dalhoo-sie. We sincerely hope that all
will be well before the Delta Gamma
on the 28th.

 

Illness is still running amok at the
Hall. A few have been recovering,
but there are still many falling ill.

Donalda Douglas was rushed to
hospital with appendicitis Monday
morning, Del Wallace having been
operated upon on Sunday. Both are
said to be doing well. ;

Miss MacKeen is ill with the ‘flu.

Fran Drummie and Fran Howe
are both back now, the former haying returned from the Halifax Infirmary on Sunday, and the latter
from home Friday night. Charlotte
Crosby was on the scene in the reception room Sunday night after a
week’s battle with a bad cold.

Dr. Holland spends most of his
time here now. The girls certainly
keep him busy. Leo Simmonds was
a visitor on Saturday afternoon to

_the first floor. Oh, Leo!
_. Isabel Fraser is out for the rest

}

_ day with a bad cold.

efaa

——_ Ee
CU CO O_O Nn—— ————— — nk—
eS SS...

was taken ill-on Tues
   

TuneinonCHNSs

To-Morrow Night
at 10.30

and Hear the
RADIO DEBATE

DAL vs U. OF OTTAWA

DAL’S TEAM:
Ernest Richardson, Leader
Leo Landreville, Second.

Subject: “Resolved that the
Manufacture of Armaments
be Regulated by Government
Control.”

NOTICE!

Don’t forget Dalhousie plays
Wanderers in the gym tonight at
8 p.m. Be there.

Tomorrow evening the senior
team clashes with Mount Allison
at 10, p.m.in a return exhibition
game, also in the gym. There will
_be a considerable period of dancing before and after the game
with Jerry Naugler in attendance.
Admittance is 25c for the whole
evening. See that the two of you
are here.

Sorority Show
Draws Big Crowd

And they didn’t want a Dal
Theatre Night! Well, well. Everything went over in great style on
Monday evening. It wasn’t a Sorority Show, it was Dalhousie’s. (Ed.
Note—Oh, Yeah? An aspiring co-ed
wrote this.) Bill Stevens strode
manfully out onto the stage and
captured the hearts of everyone of
the two thousand and more people
present at the Capitol. With his
mentor, Professor George ScottHunter at the piano, he made the hit
of the evening, more than justifying
the brilliant introduction of Len
Bishop, who made an_ excellent
master of ceremonies.

Fran Gardner and Audrey Ryan,
the other soloists, also went over
with a bang. They did well. The
Pine Hill trio, composed of Hartie
Watts, George MacLean, and Gard
Ward were excellent in their number
too, giving a very finished performance,

Two pairs of tap-dancers also
drew well-earned applause. Jean
Fitzgerald and Petie Murphy gave
an excellent interpretation of this
art, in attractive green ballet-costumes. Lou Morrison and Audrey
Balcom came in later on the program doing credit to the Hall.

Laurie Hart gave the atmosphere
to the show with his melodies. After
the show a large number followed
Laurie to the Green Lantern where
they danced for some time.

    
      
      
   
   
   
   
     

 

 

 

NEW STUNT

The University has fined a large
number of students the sum of
five dollars apiece for arriving
back late for their classes subsequent to the Christmas vacation.
Most of the punished make their
homes in the United States, but
not all of them. It is believed
that all are either Medical, Dental
or Arts students, the fine being for
tardiness to the extent of five days
or more.

ore et Labo,
PVE GOT

I’ve got some aches,
» My throat is sore.

at Dalhousie University
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 14, 1935

New Dalhousie Theme Song |Government is Sustained
At Mock Parliament

First Undefeated Government in Many Years.

For the first time in years, going back to the days when

THE FLU

I’ve got some pains,

Katchoo!

I might as well get into bed,

Because I’ve got the

flu.

—

I’ve left my class, I’ve left my Lab

To those, the faithful few, ;
Who do not know what luck is mine—
They have not got the flu.

I am excused from work and play—
A holiday, ’tis true—

And yet I wish, ah!

The Profs would get

wicked thought,
it too.

I have a quiz in Physics one,

A zero will not do!
“Oh, that’s all right,

he could not come,

Because he has the flu”

And ye methinks that, after all,

There is much more

to do

Than catching up with notes I missed
Because I had the flu.

 

Sophmores Win
Bennett Debate

For the first time in four years,
the Freshman debating team failed
to win the Bennett Shield Debate.
The Freshman representatives David
MacLellan and Elizabeth Cox were
defeated by the Sophomore team
composed of Sandy MacPherson and
Margaret Drummie.

The subject of the debate was
“Resolved that, in the present social
system old age has an unfair advantage over youth.” .sr. MacPherson
opened the debate for the affirmative
by stating the resolution and citing
examples of young men whose creative ideas were hampered by the red
tape and reverence for tradition held
by the old men who were their superiors. Mr. MacLellan, as leader of
the negative, refuted his arguments
and retaliated with more examples
of young men in politics, law, and
the church. Miss Drummie, as third
speaker, professed herself as overjoyed with the cheerful picture
painted by Mr. MacLellan. She spoke
of the harmful jurisdiction exercised
by elderly matrons over younger society. Miss Cox, speaking for the
negative, stressed the advantages of
younger men in the professions of
medicine, law and ministry. The
debate was closed with the rebuttals
of the two leaders. The debate
showed a lack of definition of terms,
rather hastily prepared material,
but, to offset that, an admirable extemporaneous ability on the part of
the speakers.

Charles Manning, president of
Sodales, was in the chair, and the
judges were Professors Maxwell,
Mercer and Pearson. The final debate, between the Senior team, Mr.
Andrews and Miss Keniston, and the
Sophomores, will’ be held in the near

 

Medical Notes

The Medical students are still unable to understand the about-turn
taken by the Dean concerning the
joint meeting of the faculty and
students. It is said that the powers
that be had something to do with it.

An epidemic of flu has been playing havoc with the meds. Don
Ramsay is out again, but many
others are not so fortunate.

Materia Medica has been taboo
recently, as far as conversation goes
anyway, Dean Burbidge having very
considerately eased the burdens of
the second year students.

Asby, the genial caretaker of the
Pathology Lab., has been romancing
about the conferences that he and
Dr. Smith hold over every case that
crops up, or so it is alleged. Careful, Ashby, or the girls will begin to
be supicious of you!

‘Class ’37 Plan
Theatre Party

Class 37 held a meeting on Thursday lasti n Room 3 of the Arts building at noon. President Gordon
Thompson opened the session _ by
loudly calling “order—please!” and
punctuating his cries with savage
bangs of a chalk brush on the desk.
The only objection to the minutes
was made by Simmonds, L., who
suggested that the secretary mention
in what room the previous meeting
was held. Leo further showed his
interest by puffing manfully on his
pipe, talking to the girls, and waking up at the end of discussions with
a brilliant suggestion such as “Let’s
ae the question.”

In the matter of additional class
fees the stiff-necked treasurer,
|Henry Ross, was of great assistance
with the mathematics. It was finally
decided that every present class
member and all new members should
pay one dollar at the beginning of
the next fall term.

A Theatre Party was suggested,
with lengthy discussion ensuing as
jusual. Bill Gladstone was very em'phatic in demanding a week’s notice
| before the social committee committed itself to any contracts for the
party. Bill also made himself heard
by requesting the class’s support at
the basketball game and dance tomorrow evening.

The class agreed to contribute two
dollars toward Arts and Science
Hockey on the understanding that
jthe other classes follow suit. The
meeting wound up with a little pep
talk from Gordon in regard to such
activities as basketball, Glee Club,
Sodales, and Munro Day.

 

N. F.C. U.S.

It is announced by the N.F.C.U.S.
that the English National Union of
Students has decided to extend to
Canadian students the services of its
travel bureau. Any Canadian students contemplating a visit to Britain or Europe this summer therefore have a splendid opportunity to
Save money and have a better time
than they could on their own. Full
information can be obtained from
“The Travel Department, National
Union of Students, 3 Endsleigh St.,
London W. C, 1, England.”

The English National Union of
Students is planning more tours this
year than ever before — both in
Britain and on the continent. They
are planned for the student purse
and taste, and afford an opportunity
to meet and travel with students of
all countries and nationalities. Many
of the tours will include a visit to
Budapest to attend the International
University Sports held in August.

 

No. 16

“Dick’” Bennett and “Len” Tilley were Dalhousie students, the
government was sustained in the vote taken at the final session

of the Law School’s Mock Parliament Tuesday Night.

The

count was 17 for the Hanson Tories, 13 for the opposition with
Independents joining the Liberals. Many students were paired.

It was a quiet session, marked with few clashes and no bad
feelings until the Conservatives thought they had caught a

paired student stealing a vote.

speaker.

RADIO TRIALS HELD

On Friday, Chas. Manning for the
first time since his election to office
presided at a meeting of the Sodales
Debating Society, which was called
for the purpose of selecting a team
to represent Dalhousie in the semifinals of the series of debates now
being conducted by the Canadiai
Radio Commission.

The meeting was largely attended
and no less than eleven men spoke
on the resolution “Resolved that the
Manufacture of Armaments be Regulated by Government Control.”

Immediately after the trials voice

 

tests were conducted at C.H.N.S.!

and Messrs. Richardson and Landreville were selected to represent
Dalhousie. It is understood that if
Dalhousie wins against Ottawa this
Friday night that the old combination of Pink and Richardson will
carry the torch in the finals.

The coming debate is of particular
interest since Mr. Richardson will
speak in English and Mr. Landreville will speak in French.

The following spoke on the resolution: Messrs. H. Webber, S. Webber,
EK. Arab, R. Rand, I. McLeod, D.
Redmond, B. Ferguson, W. Grant, I.
Mercer, G. Daley, L. Landreville.

Professors Johnstone, Bennett,
Curtis, and Young very capably
selected a team which should bring
victory to Dalhousie.

 

 

Prof. Roy Fraser to
Address Med. Soc.

Professor Roy Fraser, who heads
the Departments of Biology and
Bacteriology at Mount Allison University will visit and address the
Medical Society on Tuesday, Feb. 19.

Professor Fraser will be warmly
welcomed by the Med. Society and
especially by those members who are
his former students. By his old students he is remembered as a true
teacher and friend, one who was always ready to do his utmost to help
them.

It is through the co-operation of
Dr. Grant and Pres. Stanley that
Professor Fraser is to visit the Med.
Society.

Professor Fraser is a very interesting lecturer as audiences throughout Canada will testify. The Medieal Society is indeed fortunate in the
privilege of having Professor Fraser
as a speaker,

The place will be the Health
Centre; the time will be announced
later. All members are urged to be
on time accompanied by their membership cards.

 

A meeting of the Medical Society
will be called at an early date to
nominate members for positions as
members of the Student Council.

The annual banquet of the Medical Society will be held in the Lord
Nelson Hotel on Saturday, March

2nd, at 8 p.m.
eg leraenisietlniatie allt i feo ed

S. C. M.

Next Sunday, February 17, is the
World Student Day of Prayer. The
S. C. M. at Dalhousie has arranged
a special service for students at St.
Andrew’s Church, corner of Coburg
and Robie, at seven o’clock. William
Archibald, B.A., will give a short
talk to students and two others will
lead the prayers during the service.
All students welcome!

 

Se

‘thanked him.

LLL LL LLL LLL LLL LL LC ti tt

Prof. George Curtis was

The evening opened with several
public bills being presented to the
house. They included bills to set up
an Economic Advisory Board, ‘to
‘amend the Companies Act to prevent
the issuing of no-par shares,.to provide for Unemployment Insurance
‘and a bill concerning the Farmer’s
Relief Act. They were given their
second reading without trouble, both
opposition parties favouring: them in
principle and confining their criticisms to the constitutional problems.
and charging the Hanson Government with introducing the bills to
catch votes in the coming election.

After this addresses on the speech
from the throne continued for the
_third session. Neil Ferguson, first

|
speaker, rapped the Conservatives

and praised the Independent Party.
G. Smith, next speaker, reviewed the
government’s policies for Railways
and charged the Liberal with having created the present railway

problem. “They raised interest payments $20,000,000”, he said, “and
they did it to eatch votes. They

rolled the pork barrel from Halifax
to Vancouver and then rolled it back
again.”

Smith MclIvor, sturdy Cape Bretoner, followed with an _ attack, on
high tariffs, demanding a return to
low tariffs and the preferences, of
Laurier. Cleveland defended ‘the
Government’s measures to correct
the evils of the capitalistic system;
he came in for considerable heckling
by Liberal front-benchers.

MacLeod, Independent, strongly
attacked both parties. He protested
the historical boasting of the older
parties. “Who was the liberal in the
Garden of Eden?” he asked. “The
serpent” answered Minister of Mines
Jack Oldfield and the Liberals hissed. Oldfield further interrupted
MacLeod’s speech to charge B. Batt,
Independent, with concealing Marx’s
Capital in his pocket. Batt denied
the charge. While his was going on
MacLeod was congratulating the
Liberals for their ability to talk at
length without saying anything. Before he finished, MacLellan, Liberal
member for Truro, asked him why
he wasn’t sitting with the Government.

Irving Pink here caused a commotion by moving an amendment to the
Speech from the Throne amounting
to a vote of want of confidence in
the Government. Party whips jumped to their feet. Arrangements for
a vote were to follow Fisher’s
speech closing the debate. While the
row lasted, Oldfield amused himself
by chalking G. Smith’s back.

Finally, Fisher was allowed to
close the debate with Fisher oratory.
The Liberals interrupted him little
—they dared not, except for the
hardened, fearless :MacIvor, from
Cape Breton.

Following this, Pink’s amendment
Was seconded and put before ithe
house. Independents voted with the
opposition, but caréful before-hand
planning by the Tories caught some
of the Independents not in their
seats and the Government won, 17—
13. The Speech from the Throne
was declared passed shortly after.

~The Prime Minister moved: to adjourn the house. thanking Prof.
Curtis. The other party leaders also

 
 
  

—
Pr er

2 ole

Ki

i
s
}
|
A

 

=... tarn her

J. R. H. SUTHERLAND
B. 58383

EDITORIAL STAFF

Editors
W. A. REID
B. 5827

News Editor Sports Editor
D. MACLELLAN, BILL DAVIS
~"  B.6096 B.A884

Business Manager Assistant
3 ARTHUR MEAGHER
oe eo B. 2886

oo —0—00G—"DY)—, '
SUCCESS.

“Early to bed and early to rise, Makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.

“The heights to which great men have reached |
Were not attained by sudden flight;

But they, while their companions slept,

Were toiling upward through the night.”

Here are two quotations with which everyone 1s familiar. The first was recited to use when we were just old
enough to understand, usually by Mother when we objected
to going to bed. Years later, we probably discovered and
pondered over the second ourselves. We had accepted the
former as the formula for success because Mother said it
was so. Now come those disturbing thoughts, ‘‘was Mother
wrong? Which is the truth?’’ .

' Jt is an open question and would make an ideal subject
for a debate. Perhaps our Defective Speaking group will
some night attack it.

The first indictment to be hurled at the former is that
no amount of careful regulation of sleep will give a man
wisdom if he is inherently a fool. Think too, of the fun he
misses if he goes to bed at twilight and rises with the sun to
meet the merry late party home-comers.

But we do not intend to discuss fools or other all-night
party-goers. What we will briefly mention in this limited
space are those ambitious people, those seekers of fame and
honour, those chosen ones who possess that indefinable je ne

sais auot of driving power which permits nothing, no one, to
. prevent them from arriving with flying colours to be crown
‘ed on the pinnace of success. |
It really does not matter just when our work is done as
Yong as we DO it. One famous writer found that by working

_the two hours immediately following his rising, he could ac-eomplish far more than in intermittent attempts throughout the day. ‘Another achieved similar triumphs in the

hours after midnight, when his body was tired but his mind

most alert.

Suecess depends entirely on the individual’s adapta
bility. and temperament, but those who wish to call some
day their own must have the ability within themselves. All|

the sleep or application in the world will never supply that
something unless the person possesses it. A natural bent
may be developed with conscientious effort, but the first
proverb, to apply to the most of us accurately, should be
written :

“Early to bed and early to rise,

Makes one an old fogey until he dies.”

PROFESSIONAL COURSES AND PRACTICAL MEN

_ Whenever the question of studying at a professional college
is brought up, the first argument in its favour is that it teaches

one to be “practical”. A graduate in medicine, law, dentistry,

commerce and science is assured of a comfortable living. These
are fields demanding “trained’’ men and the schools who supply their need must cater to the market, it is said.

But are these men as practical as is thought? How are they
in novel situations? Is the professional university supplying
the needs of the world? We suggest it is not. In a world
that is busy turning itself upside down, only the new doctors
and dentists have used their heads. Accepting the fact that
cities are well supplied with medical services, graduates in these
studies have of late years gone to the country and smaller
towns where they are most needed. In a lesser degree, the
young barristers have also followed this direction, though the
cynic will remark that they bring with them more trouble than
good. But what about the commerce and science graduates?
We think that the majority of these practical young men have
been less able to adapt themselves to depressed economic conditions. The man with a B. Com. still yearns for city life and
its big business. He desires to get into insurance, stock and
bond and other such artificial businesses. The scientist looks
to doing further research work, either backed by educationalists
or by the larger producing forms, though he must know by this
time that money for such study is becoming increasingly scarce.
How about inviting these gentlemen to come down to earth to
do something for themselves and society?

_ Take Nova Scotia for an example of what they could do.
Surely a commerce man, practical, trained in business methods,
can see an opportunity to exploit local tourist possibilities, to
improve present methods of marketing fish, lumber and agricultural products. Only little St. F. X. University has been able

_ to see that improved conditions in Nova Scotian life can come

by directed and organized co-operative movements. But such
schemes need clever men. Where are Dalhousie’s B. Com.’s?
i , Nova Scotia needs scientists whose discoveries can
; resources into marketable goods. New methods of
breaking down coal, gold ore, the changing of wood to cellulose

and of refrigerating fish would restore this province to pros
Oh where, oh where, are our “practical” men? ~

DALHOUSIE

RAMBLING

“Dates Depression, Dough”

Many different slants are taken in
collegiate circles as to the soundness
and advisability of the ‘“Dutch-treat”
or fifty-fifty system. Attacking this
acute problem from the male point
of view we find two opposite camps.
First there is the college man whom
custom sways—who feels as if the
masculine heritage of superiority
and strength is at stake—and who
would be ill at ease in permitting
a fair companion share in the expense of an evening’s fun. This
youth maintains that if a chap cannot afford taking a girl out he should
either not go out at all or solve the
financial problem by doing something devoid of expense—for example of recent years many students
have turned to warming their hands
before a cheery re.

This seems to be the candid opinion of the more _ serious-minded
college youth upon whom from
generations past has fallen the cloak
of chivalry.

However, there are college men
who do not see anything humiliating
in allowing a girl to pay her share

or even to pay all, provided she can
afford it better than they.
How would you enjoy it if all you

    
 
  
   

 

had to do was to call up the girl, call
for her, drive the girl in her father’s
car to the appointed place, and then
have her slip you the tickets for the
evening’s entertainment ?

What have the young ladies to
say?

Some declare that those girls who
do pay must want male company
badly to do such a thing.

A girl’s popularity is in danger
for ’tis said that college men have
not any too high a regard for the
co-eds as is.

Others realize that entertainment
is a luxury for the young men but
are not in favor of sharing. They
would rather aid in some other way.
The whole affair rests entirely upon
the individual—it is largely a matter of circumstances.

 

Dalhousie Theatre Night

Who killed Cock Robin? — where
were the Dalhousie colors last Monday night? It certainly was disappointing to take one’s seat in the
Capitol Theatre on “Dal’s night”
and on gazing around fail to find the
familiar black and gold. One’s
memory is more vividly refreshed on
seeing than on make-believing. The
name and the colors—go together.

That B. A. Again

Much as I respect our worthy editor I cannot let last weeks’ editorial
pass without comment. I am not
convinced that my four years in Arts
were years wasted and spent, “dipping leaky buckets in empty wells”,

It is true that a B.A. is almost
“useless” from a momentary point of
view; that Arts work, particularly
during the first two years, is very
often “Simply memory gymnastics”:
that men who, by vigorous “ylugging”, have received the coveted
parchment, are often ignorant, unintelligent,
boors,

It does not follow, however, that
we should bid the Frosh abandon
Arts and seek the sordid realms of
Commerce, Science or Journalism.
All that is shown is that many enter
college who have no business there;
that the university is compelled by
our present school system to do
much ground work in the freshman
and sophomore years; that the System is not perfect, and that students
and professors are not perfect.
There is something (call it culture
or what you will, and accuse me of
affectation) in an Arts “Education”
which every student will average intelligence can find, and which he
cannot find so easily in Science or
Commerce. It is an opening-up, a
budding-forth of the youthful mind,
a growing awareness of how much
there is to think about, as well as a
gradual acquisition of methods of
study on these questions.

The nature and value of an Arts
course, moreover, vary with the purpose of the particular student. An
“Arts course” may thus be professional, pre-professional, an-excuseto - be - at - college - and - have some-fun, or “generally educative,”
These conflicting purposes in our
present system give the casual ob
server an impression of chaos and

uncultured, incapable

ee
——_———— ee 02> 0 om
i

eu
a

GAZETTE

 

Somethine
To Think About

Many Medical students during
the past week have received letters notifying them that they owe
the University $5.00 for missing
a couple of days of school (returning two days or so after the session had been resumed at the end
of the Christmas holidays). This
is evidently a new regulation invoked after the return of the students; at least, there is nothing in
the Calendar which says that students shall be fined for not attending a couple of days of lectures.

Whether or not a university has
jurisdiction to impose a fine is
doubted; that is a power which is
vested in the government of our
country. They may impose regulations, but to impose such a regulation without warning, and when
it is too late for the students to
do anything about it, seems hardly fair. Too, in these hard times
five dollars is a lot of money, considering the small pittance on
which many of these students
must exist while going to school
Fines for smoking—fines tor missing school—what next?

 

 

On Friday the women of Turkey
were permitted for the first time
to vote in the general elections.
They were permitted also to stand
as candidates, and seventeen of
them were elected deputies to the
National Assembly.

The list of important holdouts
against woman suffrage is getting
shorter all the time. France, Italy,
Argentina, Japan, China, the Philippines, Bermuda.

 

Dalhousie debates Ottawa on
Friday night in the series of radio
debates conducted by the Canadian
Radio Commission. Should Dalhousie win, they then debate
against Toronto for the championship. With two experienced men
like Richardson and Landreville,
Dal’s chances look very good for
a crack at the championship.
Lots of luck, fellows!

 

Englishmen see something in
television. London is to have regular television broadcasts as soon
as a station can be built, and if
successful, as it is expected to be,
ten image transmitters are planned for the British Isles.

If television should prove a success the motion picture industry
will be greatly affected. Then
there is the question of sound
broadcasting; today the vast broadcasting layout is supported by
selling time on the air, and a rental of facilities. Television will do
away with sound broadcasting just
as the talkies have done away
with silent movies. In any case
its results will have a revolutionizing effect on a great industry.

 

Strange as it may seem, Huey
Long says he is not a dictator,
and what is more, he does not believe in dictatorships. “I don’t believe in dictatorships — all these
Hitlers and Mussolinis. They don’t
belong to our American life. And
Roosevelt is a bigger dictator
than any of them. None of these
men in Europe has as much power as he has. If I were President
I wouldn’t permit Congress to
delegate its authority to me.”

It is very difficult to conceive
just what Long’s game is, but in
any case it is submitted that he
will prove a very strong contender in the next election for President, unless something exceptional
happens.

 

Fraternities are no small organization in the United States, especially so when they boast the
loyalty of more than a_ million
members—graduates and students
and chapter houses on campuses

futility, which more careful scrutiny
will find at least partially unjustified. Though far from perfect, the
Arts School is not merely a useless
and superflous relic of mediaevalism.

Rather than forbid him entrance
to Arts, I would urge the new student, particularly if he is yet uncertain of his “life-work”, to spend a
few years, reading and thinking, in
“a disinterested endeavour, valuable
though vain, after man’s perfection.”

February 14, 1935

 

 

POET’S CORNER

 

FINIS

Is this the end?

Are those four precious years

To be erased forever with ‘Goodbye’,
A brief, strong hand-clasp and a tearless eye?
Here, as we stand, before my mind appears

The night we met.

How gay you were

Dancing before the cheering crowd, while I,
Behind the painted scenes, stood silently
And watched your laughing lips and flying hair—

Oh, I’ll remember! and perhaps some day—

If someone should recall my name again—
You'll arch your brow in that delightful way

And slowly drawl, ‘Oh yes, I knew him when—

 

It’s over now.’

You shrug and softly laugh,

‘But Mother still preserves his photograph.’

 

The Telephone

so urgently that you are compelled
to rush out dripping and disgusted

Lurking in a dark corner of the} to answer it.

hall its shiny
gleams evilly.

startle you with its shrill cry.

OEE

from coast to coast, costing $75,000,000.00. And these figures do
not include the sorority system
which is coming to match the
fraternities in membership and
strength on many co-educational
campuses. Whether they shall
continue to increase in strength
and power is a question for the
student of today.

 

“Science and Social News” is a
book which should prove of particular interest to Haligonians. Its
author is none other than Julian
Huxley, who lectured in the Lord
Nelson Hotel here under the auspicious of the National Council of
education no more than a month
or so ago.

All who heard his “talk” need
no introduction to the style and
theme of the book. Incidentally
theme of the book was the theme
of the lecture, “Science and its re
lationship to contemporary social
needs.”

 

Last Thursday night Dalhousie
students. were privileged to “a
treat” when the Glee Club presented “The Ghost Train” — undoubtedly the finest performance
present by this student organization in the past number of years.
None of the characters can be
praised too much for the professional manner in which their
respective roles were filled and
this includes the property staff—
CONGRATULATIONS.

black mouthpiece
Tireless and ever
vigilant it is awaiting the appropriate moment in which to annoy and
If
you are alone in the house and decide to take a bath it chuckles gleefully. Waiting until you are warmly |
immersed it sends out its summons

If your telephone is on a party
line so much the worse. At any time
of the day you may take down the
receiver and be greeted abruptly by
Mrs. Smith’s request for Mrs. Jones’
egg-beater or her recipe for baked
onions. You may also receive a full
length word picture of yourself
couched in none too flattering terms.

Speaking over a rural party line
is most interesting however, as your
conversation has an ever present accompaniment of diverse sounds. The
squeak of a running sewing machine
tells you that Mrs. Green is also enjoying the conversation, the mellow
tones of a cuckoo clock inform you
that Mrs. Jones too is listening while
the loud howling of the Brown baby
speaks for itself.

The number of your telephone can
also be a source of great misery.
Perhaps it is similar to that of an
undertaker or of a beauty parlour
so that you are forever telling some
bewildered being that this is not So
and So’s undertaking parlours or explaining why you cannot give Mrs.
Jones a finger-wave on Tuesday at
four o’clock.

If you get your number changed
to avoid such annoyances you will
probably be unlucky enough to receive a number previously belonging
to a bootlegger or some such notorious character. If this happens you
receive calls at all hours of the night
from persons of doubtful sobriety
and respectability.

We sufferers of telephone ? ?? ?
however, have one thing for which
to be thankful, namely, that television is not yet in common use. Imagine having to powder your nose or
comb your hair before you could
answer the telephone! Imagine seeing the faces belonging to the unpleasant voices of all the wrong
numbers you answer in a day!
Imagine our absent-minded friend
answering the phone in a bath towel.

 

 

~ Shane’s Annual
February Shirt Sale

| Your chance to lay in a stock of good quality
Shirts at a great Saving

 

 

ARROW — FORSYTHE — TOOKE — LEWIS

All the best makes with full sized bodies and perfect
| fitting collars. These shirts come in collar attached |
and separate collar styles—regular value to $2.50. |

Sale Price $] -39 3 for $ 4.00

|
COME EARLY BEFORE THEY ARE PICKED OVER

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 
  
  

eo

  
   
     
 
  
 

OF BUNK

CHAPTER 16

ae

ey
“am , se
a :

| For those who seek a

| Valentine tribute, Birks’
ite - stock abounds in sugges
fs:
‘that the past two weeks have
brought name and fame unto the

ee —-_ | Lande of Dal, for in every Field of
ar? , Life in our fair Champus Veektory
ee ‘hath been pree-dohm-een-ating. And
ae aa ‘too did not the sekond Dhay of this
Henry Birks & Sons ‘present Wheek see the first Night of

Dal for manee years. The Famus
‘Abba Gabbas shewed unto the Stu‘des of Dal that all were frends, and
all could mingle as one in the TheeAter, at least when the Rezult is for
Chareety. Many, many of the Studes
\for the while turned Soh-Roh-Ree‘Tee, Seesters and selleth Teekets so
'that Abba Gabba Chareety would
suck-seed. While even such Mhen

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 
       
  

 

 

ie
; < = "y —~_ 2 ®

Pine Hill on Parade
hee > About fifteen or more of the resi- as Art-hur of the Mar speedee Clan

F

ae dents have been victims of the flu’ | worketh deelgently so all would
fae . epidemic during the last week. The | transpire well and such work could
ae situation became so serious that, hardly go unrewarded. Many Studes
some of our ex-boy scouts decided to | turneth out to hear the Famus
help the maids in carrying the trays! Hartt Band, and to hear the Beeg

- at meal-times. In a very short time} Voyce of “Leetle” Beel Stefens. The
a a number of the sick ones made a} Seesters of Abba Gabba should have
Sa recovery little short of the miracul-}many shekel to lay aside for their
ous. The explanation of such a Chareety and they should pour forth
curious occurrence surely cannot lie thanks unto the Gaz for the Free
ss in _the fact that MacVicar was one Ad. ’Tis an ill Whind that bloweth
| of thé most zealous in carrying out|no goode.
these domestic duties? If not per- iy OMNI Gel orto Pict dogs at tha
Rape in ‘the fact that a mate nurse Bhall and Finders of the Basket
is no so efficient as one of the other tomught Senic unto their’ Lectle
sex, and the “malades”, unable to Kollege in a resent Battel on the
5 stand harsh treatment for any length fe te Hie dive’ of Anshunt
of time, gave it up as-a bad job and , Warriors they were leadeth unto
decided to recover. In any case they aie) ey file atin Bald; he exdid recover and seem little the worse eet iiaia on by offering ccch

 

And so it has come to pass

i r *

   

i

a

aoe

ee
ol ; * \ er

  
 

for wear. It is to be hoped that such
an untimely seige will not hinder
plans for the At-Home.

_ Harvey Bishop’s hair-dressing and
beauty-parlour duties seem to keep
him busy until all hours of the night.
Is not twelve o’clock at night a
strange time to seek an appointment
with a hair-dresser? Yet this de
é duction is the only one possible to

us from the evidence confronting us.

= It is not according to accepted prin
. ciples to burn the candle at both

ends Harvey; you may get your hair

Apparently the most exciting

Po thing that happened at the festivi
ties accompanying the Dal. threatre
night—at least the only thing which
seemed to stick in the memory of

those who were there—was the fire

Keeses for every Bhall that findeth
eets whay into the Baskeet. And lo
when the time arriveth for heem to
pay the debt, he findeth he oweth
Sammie no less than seexteen, and
Beeg Beel 9, and many more to the
many others, for the Veektorie was
powerful and the Chasers of the
Bhall loveth Keeses, but they would
rather a Kaptan of the Females to
disheth out the Reward.

8. Now too thees shall be DalHous-ees Wheek upon the ir. For
; Reech-Ard-Sohn with hees_ seelver
Voyce is to thrill many from Halee
fax to Vankuver, while Laundry- | Pohrster took more
Ville is to be hees Partner, while ' Rest, and h

they waggeth tongs with those from
the Fare Ceety of Ottawa, the home
of Feesher’s Benyett. These Mhen
too are sure to bring unto their

further down the street. It must Lettle Lhande much Fame and
have been a good show. (Inserted Gloree. They too shall reap reech
Ns by one who was not there.) Rewards.

 

FINEST SELECTED

ROASTED ALMONDS

DELICIOUS FRENCH STYLE CHOCOLATE

   
   
   
   
   
 
 
    

re
ita
SAS 4 Ok Ar
ret .
% ath Re natees ant
y eheeroy ye , i
‘ *
rf nh see ;
aS OER TDP ay gS

Nelsons

    
   
    

. BE SURE IT’S

  
  

  
 
 

     

Pesan
AHS A
DSS

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

FOURTH BOOK! POETRY REVIEW

Continuing last week’s review of
Mr. Perey B. S. Shilly’s poems, we
come to this delightful little thing:

PLANNING
When the subtle moonbeams silver
All the surface of the lake,
I will search Pa’s pants for silver
And a shining quarter take.

I will take the gleaming quarter
Forth and hire a little boat,

Go and get the neighbour’s daughter,
Sail with her for parts remote.

The charm of this poem lies in
the uncertainty in which it leaves
one as to subsequent events. It is
suggested that such poetry be written in a dead language with which
neither her Pa nor the poet’s Pa is
familiar. The reason is obvious.

Following this, there comes some
more poultry in the form of some
foul verses. Pardon me, I should
have said, verses to a fowl. This imaginative discourse is entitled

TO A CHICKEN
(On Receiving his Lunch-Counter Order)
Hail to thee, blithe spirit,
Bird thou never were,
But dwell in wood or near it,
Body cloaked with hair,
And every muscle exercised in the
great open air.

Higher still and higher

From the Earth thou sprang,

Till a stream of fire

And an awful bang

Came from gun and knocked you
down with a mighty whang.

ES

4. And then the Glee Kloob seeing all coming into high praise,
thought that it was neer time for it
too, to do its share. So for long
Wheeks thirteen studes labored deelegently to put across the Trane of
Ghosts, and their success was great.
The Children of Dal applaudeth loud
and long after eech Akt, and shouteth for mhore. For thees time the
Akters even outdid the famus Orkestra of One Armed Rhian.

a:
well.

All the Aktors did their beet
Even the Creesed and Bald
Kops were Goode. The Seely Asse
lafs than all the
e took hees part as weel
as any Profeshunal. ’Tis whispered
that Julyus walks around with his
Moneykel and Kane all the Dhay, to
remember the Night of the Trane of
Ghosts. And following Julyus comes
Ruth Murray Skaaleeny, who akteth
as on Krazee, and who turneth out
to bee a great Every-Day Girlee.
She too receiveth much of the applaws of the Studes who crowdeth
the stage to witness the heroeene.
All the other Aktors too did there
leetle Beets well, all from the Angree Boss Rothfeld, to the Old Souse
Miss Keendle, who drinketh like one

who knoweth how to weild a mightee
Flask.

6. There were too Heroes who
were not seen but heard, and heroes
who deserveth the greatest of praz.
They madeth the Thunder and the
Rane, and too they Pusheth the
Trane of Ghosts. Headed by Peekard Bazely, Flektric Isner and many
mhore they made noyses weeth such
grate effekt, that they were the talk
of the show, and they were rated
weeth the gratest of the great wen
in the Piktures ‘or on Broadway.
Theres could be no grater honor.

ard

been bringing fame unto the Leetle
Kollege, there are many of the besses who are reflekting shame upon

(. While the Children of Dal have| _

What thou wert I know not.

What is most like thee?

Limb of mangled robot?

Hide of chimpanzee ?

Your most peculiar flavor is intriguing me.

Tell me, sprite or bird,
What sweet haunts were thine.

'I have never heard,

Tho’ I’ve drunk much wine,
Of a fowl or beast that had such a
taste divine.

I look before and after,

I seek for what is not,

My brain whirls faster, faster,

My heart with yearning fraught,

But no one comes to tell me of the
place where thou wert got.

Tell me half thy story,

That my mind may know.

Wert thou old and hoary ?

Had thy cheek youth’s glow?

Tell me of my tummy’s sake before
I crazy go!

But now an angry crowd

Had slowly gathered round.

They muttered and they vowed

To stay till facts were found,

And the trembling cook then told us
we had et his oldest hound.

Perhaps this poem does not reach
the sublimity of the others, but it
preaches a tremendously powerful
moral lesson, “Never eat with gusto,
if you know not whence it came.”

 

The final poem in this collection is
a touching effusion of love for a
favourite cat, who was misled. It
is a purely lyrical song:

ROSALYN

I’m just a feline, female, coy—

To all intents and purposes—

Yet divers means I do employ

To have affairs with Thomases.

Each evening when the moon is
bright

I yowl behind the cellar door

Until ’m kicked into the night—

"Tis easy to make Master sore.

Then, lithe of limb and sure of paw,

I climb upon the alley fence

To wait for him, so strong of jaw,

My hero, who will take me hence.

The ash-can’s smell
divine,

Forgotten is each solemn vow;

When his green eyes look up to
mine,

I purr to answer his “Meow!”

grows more

So, cheek by jowl, we travel on,
Our hungry love to satisfy.

And spit and howl until the dawn,
When we have other fish to fry.

Then ,like some human friends we
know,

We wonder where the hours have
fled,

For tho’ ’this bliss to love, yet oh!

"Tis Heaven when we go to bed.

After reading these lulling verses,
there is nothing more the Reviewer

can do but to remove the rest of his| self admirably and inquired sweetly,

clothes and follow the example set
by Rosalyn.

(The Reviewer intends to go to
bed—not to do what you weve thinking he meant by that last sentence.

—Ed. Note.)

 

Student’s Forum-
vi lit yy D: a; sj > (Gs ’ stte .
z ; : L-qditor ainousie aZzette:
the Fare name of Dal. “All of the

Meds.” they say, “who cometh tardy
from there Xmas Val:as’ uns rausi

dig into their Jeens and hande cw

five Bhucks as a Fhine.” The shok
came unto the Studes out of a kleer
sky, and they steel whonder why.
For after all they were heretofore
told nothing of it. The Senate of
Dal hath been always known for its
Justees. What kuld have changed
their mhinds. . ’Tis rumoured that
the Meds Red Rebellyun is the
cause; and now the Meds are going
to be shown who is the Boss. Bui
that must surely be a falsehood. For
the Profs of Dal, those of the Land
of Med. too, cannot be so unfair as
to be the cause of such unjustice
They are teeching the Studes to be
narrow mhinded or bigoted or cheatful; surely they must set the xmple.

The Chronicler of Bune knows they
will.

been asking when Class’ 33’s sidevalk is going to be laid. Would you
be good enough to publish that in
all probability the sidewalk will be
laid this spring, prior to Convocation? Some of the subscriptions
have not been paid as promised, but
the Life-Treasurer is trying to collect as many of them as possible.
At the present time the fund
amount to $365.00, which approximates the cost of the construction
of the walk. Additional funds are
necessary to carry on the activities
of Class ”’.

Thanking you for your courtesy,
believe me to be,

Respectfully yours,

GEORGE THOMPSON,
Life-Pres. of Class ’33.

 

* Sir,—Recently several stu-|
dents and alumni of Dalhousie have | Africa?

Page Three

 

SOMETHING

 

   
 

REVEALING |

Turrets reveal the whole
story of cigarette enjoyment. Their quality is the
kind that wins attention.
Light a Turret and see
for yourself! There is no
concealing the fact that
Turret Cigarettes command the admiration of
discerning smokers. And
why shouldn’t they?

Quality and Mildness

urret

CTGARKE TT ES
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited.

 

 

OBSERVER

Stark tragedy stalked the Campus
on Wednesday night. Few knew the
pathetic tale of perverted humor and
pathos associated with the presentation of “The Ghost Train”. But Observer knows all—well, almost all.

This play within the play was unseen by most of us, but it did not
escape the vigilant eye of that versatile man-about-Gym, the great

Payne of the staff. Whoever gave] Sena

the Payne to the Gymn Reception
Committee should be rewarded for
their contribution to Campus personalities, but many agree that the
Payne has just recently developed.

But to return to the unseen drama.
Here is how the story was heard by
Observer, probably slightly twisted
after several retellings, but still
fairly accurate.

Messrs. Ingraham and Dobson
procured the now infamous parrot
used in Act 1. The irascible beastie
objected to having to leave home
and escaped from its cage as the
bearers reached the door of the
Gym. A wild and excited pursuit
across the Campus followed, ending
in the capture of the fugitive by Mr.
Ingraham. The squawking crittur
objected to such treatment and bit
its captor on the wrist—a helluva
bite. Mr. Ingraham returned to the
Gym with Annabel under his arm.
Then he saw Red. Now, most people would have employed forceful
expletives when in this condition,
but Mr. Ingraham controlled him
in his best Joe Penner voice, ““Wanna buy a duck?”

 

Mr. Payne gracefully declined the |
olfer, amazed that any man could |
mistake a parrot for a duck. |

“It wasn’t a duck at all, you see:
—it was a parrot,” he explained to
Observer’s authority. Then he add-|
ed, pityingly, “Gosh, but he’s dumb!” |

Lou: “I wish I could go to sail
and meet some big, dark, handsome
Spaniard.”

B. F. (cynically): “Why not go to
They’re bigger and darker

 

there.”

 

Then there is the Comm. 1 student
who said that an invoice is another
name for the conscience.

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

* $1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

Cousins’ Limited

Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors

 

 

     
    
  
  
   
   
    

“None better—anywhere” j

A FINE TIME
Naughty Meds have no exam,
No excuse to stay and cram—
So they leave their books and scram,
Take to home upon the lam’
For a long vacation.

No regrets in bosoms burn,
Scorning summons to return—
They must wait and sadly learn
That if students orders spurn

It brings consternation.

te scratches heads and noses
When the Dean the sin exposes,
Then a healthy fine exposes—
Gives the truants mild neuroses—
Five shekels. What a fee!

Really ’tis no cause for joking,

All the boys must give up smoking,
While the Gods they are invoking,
If ’tis true, ’tis most provoking—
Observer waits to see.

ANN ATOMY.

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
At your B-73 76

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

 

  
    

 

 

Where
in the Evening?

Why, The Green Lantern, of course, with

its cosy,

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
| “Canterbury Room”.
You'll like it.

THE

_ GREEN LANTERN

|
attractive
|
}
|

 

Halifax Transfer
aed bees

oS

 

   
   
 
   
  
  
  

     
    
  
  

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

DRUGGIST

 

   
     
  

    
  
  
 
 
 

 
  
      

Halifax and Bedford

  

  
 
   
       
  
 
     
  
    
  

    

 
  
 

 
  
 

  
   
   
 

   
 
   

~~

a ce Four Leper
Dal Defeats Tech 4 to 0,

—

1
7

i
*

   
   


‘ es

.

on
=e. J
i * a Pas
Peres se
tad
F

TECH MAY DROP FROM LEAGUE

-. Fast combination play, backed by a sturdy def ence,

proved too much for the N. S. Tech on Saturday, and in one
of the best hockey games of the season, the revamped
ts Tigers swept through the Tech squad for a 4 to 0 victory.
The Dal team were without the services of Pat Patton
and Graham who are on the sick list, but their places were
capably filled by Johnny Godwin and Russ Bryant, both of

ar
a

7

whom turned in stellar performances.

3 The game opened fast with Dal
_ forcing the play and following some
pretty passing by the Cohn, Stanfield, Mullane line, Mullane got the
puck in front of of the Tech net to

_ give Brown no chance, on a hard
shot to the corner of the net. Before
the period ended Mullane put Dal,
two up when he took Cohn’s pass
with the goal-tender out of position.
Both scores were the result of team
work and speaks well for Coach
Buckley’s methods of-coaching.

The Tech team were skating well
but lacked the necessary punch to
score and the period ended with Dal
on the long end of a 2—0 count.

In the second period the Tech
_ team showed up better, but while
_ they were successful in breaking up
many of the Dal plays, they seldom
went on the Tiger defence and

Captain Kyte, in goal for Dal, had

little trouble handling their long

shots.

Stanfield was right through for
Dal but, over anxious, shot straight
_ into Brown’s pads. Dal again miss_ sed a wonderful opportunity to score
when Mullane choose to hog the
_--puck, with Cohn waiting, unmarked,

in front of the Tech net. Shortly

before the period ended, Cohn who
was playing a brilliant game at cen~~ tre, stick handled through the entire
| ~—~—s'Tech- team, for Dal’s third goal.
es _ Dal seemed to be content with the
_-—s three goal lead and the play slowed somewhat in the third period.
____ The only score of the period went to
_ Doug Bent working at right wing
on Dal’s second line. Coming in
fast Doug. pick up Bryant’s rebound to shove it into an open net.
| -—s With the exception of Flemming, the
_ Tech players were clearly out-chased
and but for his clever work at cen_ ter ice, the Tech goalie would have
had a much busier afternoon.
_ The game had been postponed
several times and a a result, only

a small band of Dal rooters were

present.

Because of their poor showing in
| -—-—s the:~<dleague the Tech team intend
| -—- forfeiting the remainder of their
games and it is probable that Dal
and St. Mary’s will play a two game
ins, total goal series to decide a winner
of the section.

The winner of the Halifax section

STUDENTS’ FORUM

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

Sir,—Students at Dalhousie University have discussed for some time
what is the remedy for the lack of
interest and spirit at Dal. Very little has been said or done to improve
the situation, other than the giving
of criticism, most of which has been
destructive. In this letter I humbly
submit, not a panacea, but some way
in which this problem may be remedied.

Recently a new president (and a
capable one) has of necessity been
elected to carry on the activities of
Sodales for the rest of the year.

“Changing drivers” in such a

   
    
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
    
   
  
   
 
   

a5
cs

tion is most unfortunate for any
_ undertaking. The reason for the
change, namely that the ex-president
had too much on his hands, explains
to a considerable extent why there is
a lack of interest and spirit at

Dalhousie.
-» Too few students with energy, enthusiasm and ability are holding of_fices and positions of responsibility,
_ while on: the other hand a few students are individually holding _too
‘many offices, and thus are not able
to give proper attention to any or
____, Sil of them, not to mention their
t ies» The~ reason why this situa_ Yon arises is obvious—the persons
_ concerned are “popular” because
_ they are ambitious, enthusiastic,
have ability, or perhaps they are

_ handsome (or good-looking as the
may be) or just too weak to say

   

a it cannot be impressed too

  

a

SS ee

you.” This criticism { it finds itself.
the student body or the|

will play off with either St. F. X. or
Acadia, depending on which team
comes through in the playoff between the two colleges.

Line-up: Dal—Goal, Kyte; defence,
Carroll, Crosby; forwards: Cohn,
Stanfield, Mullane, Godwin, Bryant,
Bent.

N. S. Tech: Goal, Brown; defence: Ross, Whalen; forwards:
Thomas, Walsh, Hanrahan, Flemming, Sinnott, Christian. ;

Interfaculty League
ARTS & SCIENCE, 31; DENTS, 19

One of the big surprises of the
league came on Tuesday, when the
highly-rated Dents team fell before
a rejuvenated Arts and Science
team. Dentistry had been riding
along at even paces, with Law and
Medicine making the leadership a
three-cornered tie. Dentistry still
have to meet Medicine, thus giving
them a possible chance to get back
into the running.

The winners took a six point lead
in the opening half, led by the heavy
scoring of Stewart. Dentistry were
having tough luck on many a likelylooking score and could only chalk
up four baskets to seven of their
opponents. Second half found the
scoring a bit better, with Arts and
Science adding 17 more points and
the losers 11.

Stewart was by far the outstanding player, scoring 15 of his team’s
31 points. John Tokesh, tall Dentistry center, came second with 6,
followed closely by his team-mate,
Bernie Lipschitz with 5.

 

COMM.-ENG.,15; PINE HILL, 12

Don Saunderson and his teammates eked out a close win over
Theology on Tuesday for a second
victory of the season. The winners
had things their own way in the
opening period, as they scored 13
points to 5 of the losers. Close
guarding featured the second half,
with Comm.-Eng. so well watched
that a bare basket was the best they
could do, while Theology cut down
the lead by scoring 7 points. Time
might have found the Pine Hillers
ahead, but the winners, on the defensive for the last few minutes,
saved their 3 point margin.

 

Council of the Students that the life
of Sodales was jeopardized at a time
when the interest in debating is
higher than it has been for some
years. And by the way the Bennett
Shield debates seem to have been
forgotten or given “a six months’
hoist’.

What remedy have I to offer?
The Council should amend its constitution and bylaws so that no student may hold more than one major
executive office during the year.
Any major office when properly carried on is sufficient for any student.
The major executive offices are those
in the Glee Club, the D.A.A.C., So
dales, the D.G.A.C., the Editors of!

the Gazette, the President of the
Council, the Managers and Assistant

Managers of the D.A.A.C., the Presi- |

dents of the Medicine, Law, Dentistry, Commerce and Engineering
Societies, and others that may come
to mind.

There are many students in Dalhousie University with excellent executive and managerial ability and if
given a chance would prove this not
only to others but to themselves, Efforts should be made to dig out this
ability and to provide ways and m
ability and provide ways and means
of placing more students in office
than there are at the present time.
In this. way the efforts of a student
would be applied to one major office
only; and not to two or more. The
energy, enthusiasm and ability of
more students would thus bedirected
towards the problem of raising Dalhousie. from the sad position in

Respectfully yours,
“A. DUB.”

is

  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

      

 

SPORT REVIE

The Dal hockey team, under the management of “Tiger”
Mackasey, is planning a tour of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick in the near future. At present they are in second position
in the league and if they win their one remaining game against
St. Mary’s College they will be tied for first place and a playoff
will be necessary; if not, they will be eliminated. If the trip
materializes, it will include games against Oxford, the Amherst
Ramblers, and St. Joseph’s at the Moncton Arena.

 

 

 

The Tigers, playing their first game in the current City
League, displayed much of the form they showed last year in
winning the Maritime title. The game was featured by the
smooth-working combination of the Gold and Black hoopsters,
and especially fine work on the part of Sam Fairstein, who collected 16 points and was high scorer. Sam, it will be remembered, was going to “retire again’, but when it was learned
that Mit Musgrave, star guard, would be in Montreal, he agreed
to stay for that one game. Now he has decided to stay for the
season.

It seems that injuries are not confined to the Gold and
Black basketballers. During practice on Saturday Isabel Fraser,
high scoring centre of the Dal girls’ team, sprained her ankle
and will be out for the rest of the season. Without her, Dal
hopes seem pretty dim, for it will be hard to fill her place.

The Tigers play again on Thursday and Friday of this
week at the Studley Gym. On Thursday they meet their oid
enemies, the Wanderers, and on Friday they play a return
game with Mt. A. The team has gone to considerable expense
to bring the Mt. A. team down, and has provided as an added
attraction dancing till 12.30, so they request the support of the
student body. You can all help and at the same time be sure
of an evening of good entertainment by being present. Owing
to a league game being played at the Y. M. C. A. on the same
evening, their programme has been somewhat altered. _ The
dancing will start at 8 and continue till 10; the game will be
10 to 11, and then there will be ddancing till 12.30.

Dal Tigers to Meet Mt. A.
In Return Basketball Game

DANCING BEFORE AND AFTER GAME

Friday, February 15th, is a date every Dalhousian
should keep open. On that evening not only will the students have an opportunity of witnessing a basketball game
between Dal Tigers and their old enemies Mt. A., but. immediately following the game they will have the privilege of
attending a dance in the gym for which Jerry Naugler and
his orchestra have prepared a special program of music.

The very nominal fee of twenty-five cents is being
charged to defray the expenses of bringing the Mt. A. boys
to Halifax and the hiring of the orchestra. Bobby McLellan,
energetic manager of the Tigers, is to be congratulated on
his initiative in preparing a real Dal night, and will no
doubt receive the whole hearted co-operation of all the students. For the benefit of those attending the dance, the
Gazette would like to suggest that the condition of the floor
might be improved. While waxing would be impractical, it
could easily be sprinkled with borax after the game.

 

Law Battles Commerce
To Sceoreless Draw
Meeting unexpected opposition
from a smooth working Commerce
team, Law were lucky to hold their
opponents to a scoreless draw. The
game featured by fast open play,
was fairly close all the way with the

Eng.-Dent Team

Bow to Medicine
Showing a brand of hockey far
superior to that displayed by the
senior team this season, Medicine
proved too fast for a disorganised
Eng.-Dent. team and when the
smoke of battle had cleared away
the official score read Medicine, 7;
Eng-Dent, 1.
Shortly after the game got under
way Waugh took a pass from the

{

the play.
Leo Simmonds and Bogg were
right in on McLellan, the Law goalie

February 14, 1935

 

 

| CASINO

SAT., MON. TUES.
ZANE GREY’S

West of the Pecos
with
RICHARD DIX

WINGS IN THE
DARK

MLRNA LOY

CARY GRANT

 

Society Doctor
with
CHESTER MORRIS
VIRGINIA BRUCE

Next Wednesday

 

 

Tigers Take 50-38 Victory
Over “‘Y”’ in Fast Basketball

Minus the services of lithe Mit Musgrave, Dalhousie’s
black and gold cat caught their opponents in their own j ungile
to claw out a 50—38 victory over the Y.M.C.A. in the City
Basketball League in their first game of the season. Tiger
Sammy Faristein starred for the winners as he sunk baskets
from all over the floor to lead the scoring list. Coaches Stirling and McDonald have expressed satisfaction at the way their
wily pussies played in the game and expect to see them darg
the Wanderers, now leading the league with two victories, into

 

but smart saves by Bob kept Commerce out of the scoring column.

Hal Connor, big defenceman on
the Law line-up, was through, but
there was nobody to take his pass
| the period ended with both
teams trying hard for a goal.

In the second period Law were
forced back on the defensive while
Hinchey was serving a penalty for
' charging Thompson. Law got in
Several long shots on the Commerce
net but Saunderson easily turned
‘them aside.

Play in the third period continued
even until Ross was penalized for
carrying a high stick, but although
the Commerce team gauged the Law
net their hardest shots were turned
aside by McLellan and the game
ended without a score.

McLellan, Connor and_ Hinchey
played well for Law, while Bogg,
Simmonds and Saunderson turned in
nice games for Commerce.

Line-ups: Law—Goal, McLellan;
defence, Ross, Connor; | forwards,
Hinchey, Henley, Fergusson, Manning. s

Commerce—Goal, Saunderson; defence, Thompson, Bogg; forwards,
Campbell, Simmonds, Nelson, Lawrence,

 

LEAGUE STANDING
Won Drew Pts.
Sit oe eo es 1 1 3
| Med. © eubew aibns 608 a! o's r 0 2
Commerce ....... 0 1 1

poorer rein boys having an edge on

corner to round the Med. defence
and fire a soft one by Garten in goal
for Medicine. If the shot had been
stopped Garten could have left the
ice and would have still been credited with a shut-out, since it was the
only time the puck got by Peters
and LeBrun, the stellar defence pair

| in front of the Med. net.

Much credit for Med’s overwhelming victory goes to the fast skating
line of Ryan, McLellan and Young
that bagged five of Medicine’s seven
goals. Several ex-St. F. x. stars
formed the second line and Duffy
scored one of the nicest goals of the
game when he stick handled through
to fool Sproul, the Eng-Dent goalie.

From the form displayed on
Thursday, Medicine are installed favorites to take the inter-faculty
championship. But they can expect
plenty opposition from the rugged
Law team, which can never be said
to be out of the running, until the
final whistle is blown.

Line-up: Med.—Goal, Garten; de
fence, Peters, LeBrun; forwards,
Ryan, McLellan, Young, Duffy MeDonald.

Eng-Dent.: Goal, Sproul; defence,
Christie, Miller; forwards, Cougle,
Petrie, Waugh.

ce

 

 

0)
The next game is scheduled for

Friday, when Medicine play Arts|

and Ce. in the latters opening game.

7
i :
aid Me

) ae i italia at salt hie fais

oe Ms eh et
New Election Plan
Outlined by DAAC

With the idea in mind that in future D.A.A.C. officials ought to be
men of experience,or otherwise men
who are endeavouring to get it, the

Management Committee last Sunday |¢ame into the picture—filling in for
approached the subject of Election| the absent Milt Musgrave—when the

of Officers. In the past each year

has brought forward a new group players with three baskets in quick
of officials who are usualy unfami_-|SUCCession.
liar with regular procedure and un-|to Dal’s score and 2 to Y’s.

interested in the future welfare of
the Club. After a lengthy discussion, the following prepcsal was
recommended as a solution to the
situation :—

1. That the President be elected
from two candidates nominated Ly
the Management Committee, both of
whom must have served on said
Management Committee in the past.

2. That the Vice-Presiden: (1nterfaculty Manager) be elected from
STUDLEY candidates who likewise
must be nominated by, and have
served on, the Management Committee.

3. That the Secretary be elected
from two candidates both of whom
must be either Sophmore or Junior
undergraduates.

4, That the retiring Management
Committee elect from the unsuccessful candidates of the above elections.
a Special Member of the new com.
mittee.

The above officers are to be elected at General Elections while the
representatives of the various facul.
ties must be elected for next term
by April 1, 1935.

At the opening of the meeting the
manager of Hockey, having beer
summoned to appear, answered several questions regarding his actions
Asked to explain the Intercollegiate
Hockey situation whereby Dal will
be liable for a third of a probable
large deficit “Tiger” obliged. He

LMA ALLL LLL ltt tt
San Renee,

was then brought to task for enter-.

ing into negotiations for a Hockey
Tour to Amherst without consulting
the D.A.A.C., and for spending $2.60
of the students’ cash for unnecessary
wires. After explaining to everyone’s mutual satisfaction Mr. Mac.
kasey gracefully retired. It was decided that awards and budget sys:
tems would be discussed at the next
meeting on the 17th.

 

seneeansbsdunscseiesbinimeremeenSaiieninn batt t
“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.

| Halifax Steam Laundry

Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

 

 

 

FROM THE
START

WINN

For 60 years the REACH Trade

Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help ..you
play the- game with the _ best
that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.

Limited.

Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIIFAX, N. S.

 

re
P

ae ah Fay

po 2
Ll

       

SAF eA
Soe eet Wer ee. Pp

   

 

   
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   

FIRST PERIOD, DAL, 25; Y, 17
Dal failed to work the ball through
on the first tap off by the center to
forward route but soon after Bill
Gladstone’s rebound was batted in by
Ted Crease. Y got possession of the
ball on the next toss and tied the
score. At this time Sam Fairstein

short speedy guard surprised the Y

Five more were added
Then
the losers took time out to debate
whether or not Fairstein was forward, guard, or center and who was
to guard him.

Time out seemed to do the Y team
some good for they cut down the
Tigers lead to four points for a time
However, a couple by Gladstone put
Dal in a better lead and when the
first period closed Dal had a comfortable lead of eight points.
SECOND PERIOD, DAL, 25; ¥, Bi

Coach stirling’s team started off
with a rush at the opening of the
second and soon had increased their
lead to a wide maargin of 17 points.
In the meantime the game had
roughened up a bit with fouls being
handed out. Dal lost Fairstein on
four fouls while Y was less fortunate as three of their players, Grant,
Beazley and Tonsaw were banished.
In spite of their loss the Y team
deserved credit for their hard playing as they again cut the Tiger’s
lead to two baskets. The Tigers
again broke away on another scoring spree which cost them two of
their best forwards on fouls—Ted
Crease and Don Bauld. Dal finished
with a 12 point lead, each team scoring point for point in the last five
minutes.

Sam Fairstein led the scorers for
both teams with 16 points; tall Bill
Gladstone came second with 9, the
Same as did his opposing centre
Grant, Don Bauld for Dal and Beazley tied for third place with 8 each.

Dal—Doug Crease4; Don Bauld 8;
Ted Crease 6; Bill Gladstone 9;
Chuck Lorway 2; Fairstein 16;
Charlie ndersonl1: Ernie Richardson 4,

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

B-6070.

 

 

 

G.A McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every

Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,

TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax
