fans

vi?
“Wie

a;

wth

 

y
sy 4
A ae
—
. ; a
7 am ,
.

w ar
ae :

~

 

r. “S97
Da . Win Over ifth Straight Each Lad Shoots Off His Mug; Defeated in Semi-Final Tilt

ir fifth straight victory, Dal Tigers romped playBae Atatia gym Tuesday to roll up a score of 27
Se against the 16 scored by the Axmen. This last victory

E oached outfit puts them at the top of the City
as lhe Sn them strong favourites to take the cham
_ pionship.
victory,

D e Bauld, Tiger forward, led the Dal team to
the Noadin team being unable to break through the

strong Bengal guards. The referees were forced to call a total

of 28 fouls.

FIRST PERIOD, 15—6 FOR DAL.

Getting an early lead, the Maritime Champs, with speedy floorwork
and a strong defense, more than
doubled the score on Acadia before
the whistle ended the opening half.
Dal forwards, working smoothly,
broke through the Acadia defence at
will to shoot from close-in, while
Acadia, forced to shoot from way
out, netted only 3 in the first.

be

ma
>

THE SECOND PERIOD.

Each team, fresh from close victories over Mt. A., were anxious for
a victory, but Dal again showed its
winning spirit at the start of the
second. Field goals by Ted Crease,
Milt Musgrave and Donnie Bauld
ee. put them farther ahead, while
Acadia could score but two points,
each on fouls—to bring the score

~ 21—8.
Former Tiger, Bernie Ralston,
gave his new team-mates some en-couragement when he dropped in
two quick goals. Sam Fairstein
. "then got te ay score for the

  
  
   
 
   
 
   

tone, Da pivot nA, <9 score ‘beioe brought to 25—12. Two more
Ps Siete for Acadia and one for Del
brought the hard-fought game be- tween the rival collegians to a close,
| __ bringing Dal one more step nearez
f _ championship honors. Coach Stizling
_ accompanied the team to V/olfville
‘Scoring honors for individuals all
went to the Tigers, no Acadia play‘ee ers scoring more than four points.

Don Bauld with 8 points led the
| -—-—- georers; Ted Crease followed with 7,
_ sand ~Milt Musgrave and Bill Gladstone took third Pines, each scoring
5 points. —

Dalhousie — Don Bauld, 8; Ted
Crease, 7; Milt Musgrave, 5; Bill
i "Gladstone, 5; Doug Crease, Charlie

Anderson, Sam Fairstein, 2.

Deiensin PARTY

_ About fifty couples gathered in the
_ Lower Gym on Tuesday evening to
- enjoy the Freshman party. Regrettably enough the Class ’38 represen_ tation was rather small, but with
- members of other classes, and a few
eallers like Bord Stoddard, Clary
_ Gosse, and Ross Morrison, the dance
218 Was a complete success.
' *) _ Streamers, paper hats, paper
_ snow-balls, ice cream, and Laurie
_ Hart’s musie all combined to lend a
happy atmosphere to the gathering.
_ The decorations, done in gold and
black, were very effective.
| ~ John Fisher, guardian angel of the
_ Freshman Class, was present to see
that behaviour was not unseemly.
_ Dr. Bell, Honorary President of the
_ Class, and Mrs. Bell were the chap_erones.

+
>
4
J
‘,

 

  
 
     
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
 
   

oo Tal

 

 

_ SPEAKING CLUB
_ MEETS WEDNESDAY

os The Effective Speaking Club will
he ave one of its regular meetings
ext Wednesday evening in the
aro Room at 7.30, The chairman
r Ian MacKeigan.
er Bentley and Harry Sutherwill speak on the resolution
That. regs has more to be
ph Kane and Wilfred Burchell
talk on “Resolved that news- |
the curse of the age”.

 

President Carleton Stanley, of
Dalhousie University, has accept
Official Student Publication

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 21, 1935

a Bs at Dalhousie University

   
    

 

 

 

No. 17

 

The Council Members Meet,

The Students’ Council held a special meeting on Monday evening at the request of the D. A. A. C., which wished
to present its conception of restoring ‘‘mob aetion”’ to Dalhousie. Dr. Hugh Bell, of the D. A. A. C. Management Committee, whose idea it was, spoke warmly in advocacy of the
proposal which was that a day be set aside, preferably the
day of the Students’ Council elections, as a holiday on which
a real get-together of the students would be held with all the
‘glamour and song of yore.

 

ad-| words of praise.

ed an invitation to lecture to a
special Convocation of honours

Dr. Bell prefaced his
‘with a few words recalling that it
'was exactly twenty-three years since
he had spoken at a Council meeting,
when he had addressed the inaugural
- meeting of the first Council. He
‘spoke of a Freshie-Soph dance at
‘the time which was broken up by

Glee Club Appeals
: sness of a  certai
To Singing Talen ath oie i: eau

An appeal has been made by the in order to decide whether the man
Glee Club for singers, any and all was drunk or not.
kinds of singers, to help with the|to 163 it was found that he
musical comedy being prepared for | sober.

Munro Day. Male singers are want: | tion—misused. He would like to see
ed especially a baritone for one of|it properly used as a good influence
the male leads. A request has also|on the student body.

been made for more students to turn | His appeal for action in the matout to help fill up the chorus, for | ter was received rather disinterestwhich about ten boys and ten girls edly by the Council, which resolved
are needed, to pursue its customary course of

The rehearsals are now well under | disciplined inaction.
way, being held every day. Carl
Bethune, Alumni president, is again’ day as he suggested all meetings for |
taking charge of the Munro. Day | the selection of candidates for the
presentation. His ability for such a’ polls might be held, with the pro
students in the University of
Colorado. The Convocation will
be held on April 3, next.

| position is too well known to call for gram including a mass gathering of

the students in the Gymnasium to

Fran Gardner and Ruth Crandall have a party that would really ex
are taking the female leads, and in/ude enough enthusiasm for the little
all probability the great Fred White-| old College to keep everybody going
head along with Warle Fraser of|strong for a year.

“Ghost Train” fame, will hold the} Mr. Thompson of the D. A. A. C.
male leads. enlarged somewhat on Dr. Bell’s

Othe.s said to be taking part in| words, as did Henry Ross, both of
the show are Chirley Sterns, Marg; whom made reference to the keen
Drummie, Janet MacGregor, George | promoting of the proposal by Mr.
Murphy and Warren Beazley. Richardson.

A wealth of dancing talent will! Dr. Bell, whilst commending the
also be exploited in the persons of| Council on its zealous work, said
Jean Fitzgerald, Lou morrison, Au-|that it had been perhaps “a little
drey Baleom, Jean Ferguson, Petie|negligent in not looking after stuMurphy, Margo McManus and others. | dent activities as a unit”.

Warren Beazley is hard at work Mr. McEvoy informed the asfiguring out the lighting effects and; sembled big-wigs that the Law Sosecuring properties. Everything | ciety at its meeting that morning
points to the staging of an over-|had declared its opposition to any
whelming success. All students are| proposal which would call for a
asked to co-operate in any way they|meeting on election day. In fact,
can. the impression his words conveyed

The Newman Club play, followed} was that the Law Society was absoby a musical hodge-podge, will be|lutely unwilling to co-operate in any
presented this coming Wednesday! project designed to infuse a little
evening. Joe Connolly is the mind|life into the lowly Arts and Science

behind this—that ought to be enough
for Dalhousians, especially after SODALES SOCIETY
PLANS DEBATES

“The Ghost Train”. We'll see you
The final debate for the Bennett

there.

Shield will be on Thursday next at
;noon in Room 3 of the Arts Building. The speakers will be Bernard
Andrews and Flo Keniston of the
Senior class, and Sandy McPherson
and Margaret Drummie of the
Sophomore class. The Juniors were
eliminated by the Seniors before
Christmas, and the Freshmen were
put out last week for the first time

 

LAW SOCIETY MEETING

On Monday at 12 o’clock the members of the Law Society gathered in
the Munroe Room for the purpose
of selecting two nominees from
which one is to be elected to represent the Law School in the Students
Council for 1935-36.

There was much discussion as to
the day on which the elections were
to take place. The boys then took

remarks; students, for the benefit of whom

the suggestion was principally made.
Several thought that no Studley
student could be induced to leave
bed on a holiday, no matter how
hard it was tried.

Those expressing distaste for the
idea as now proposed. were Messrs.
Crease, McEvoy and Fisher, and
Miss Atherton. Messrs. Cohen,
Thompson and Ross fought for car
By a vote of 175|rying the suggestion to the Senate
was|in the form of a motion.
This, he said, was mob ac-|lieved to be the first occasion on

This is be
record for the Dental representative
to have spoken at a Council meeting.

Mr. Thompson announced that the
total cost to Dalhousie of the two
games with Mount Allison was
$30.15.

President Teasdale, on behalf of
the President of the Glee Club, stated

Dr. Bell proposed that on such aj that the executive of that organiza
tion is anxious to make awards for
meritorious work to six or seven
members of the Club, and wished to
secure permission to do so from the
Council. ‘The request was set aside
for further consideration.

A committee was chosen to attend
to the Malcolm Honour Award, composed of Professors Wilson and Bell,
and Ruth Sumner, Laurie Teasdale,
and Ted Crease.

David Maclellan, on behalf of the
hockey manager, sought permission
for the holding of a Dalhousie afternoon on this coming Saturday. As
there is to be a hockey game at 2.15,
it was asked that a skating session
be held afterward until five o’clock.
After prolonged discussion the request was granted. Mr. Crease made
and withdrew a motion to the effect
that the Council was “not interested”. Mr. Fisher it was who
moved that sanction be given.

Mr. Fisher ended the session with
a few suggestions about Dr. Bell’s
proposal. He figured that elections
and class meetings could be held on
Munro Day.

The meeting was weil attended
and the deportment very good.

Medical Notes

The Students’ Medical Society met
on Tuesday evening, and although
important business was the reason
for having the meeting, the attendance was an absolute disgrace. The
following nominations for the medical representatives on the Students’
Council were recorded:

Gerald LeBrun, Robert MacLellan,
Harold Taylor and Carl Trask. Two
of these will be chosen on election
day. Edward Barnhill was elected to
represent the medical students on
i management committee of the

_|about the meeting adjourned.

time out to nominate and elect their
mouthpieces. Chas. Manning, Nate
Green, Bob MacLellan, Harrison
Cleveland, G. Thompson and Bob
Batt were nominated for that esteemed position. The result of the
election showed that Thompson and
Manning were the favorites.

A short note was read to the society by President Hanson from Sid
Smith whot hanked the Law boys
for the rousing welcome he received
on his recent visit to Halifax.

The argument as to the election
date was then resumed—the sugges
than an Irishman”, and|tion being that elections take place

on Munroe Day. A vote was taken
and the suggestion voted down.
There being nothing left to argue

in four years by the Sophomores.
The resolution to be debated is

‘That party politics has outlived its |
usefulness.’

ID. -A.C, for 1935-36.

After the general business was
finished, those present were delighted to hear Professor Roy Fraser of
Mount Allison deliver a short address. His subject was “The Next
Thirty-five Years in Medicine”, and
he succeeded in keeping his listeners
spell-bound.

This meeting concludes the programme for the college year. However, the revived medical banquet,
set for March 2, should draw a large
crowd to end the term somewhat
more asupiciously,

The trials for the selection of a
three-man debating team to represent Dalhousie in a debate with the
University of New Brunswick at the |
Gymnasium in the near future will |
be held on Friday evening, February
22, at 7.30 in the Munro Room.

The resolution is: “That the Economic Disorder of the World will
necessitate the acceptance of the
Principles of Socialism.” All wishing
to try out for the team are given the
choice of speaking on either the affirmative or negative for a period
of five minutes. This is open to all
undergraduates

A general meeting of the D.A.
A.C. will be held on Tuesday,
February 26, at 12 noon in the
Gymnasium for the discussion of
very important business.

[Richardson and Landreville

|

Lost Question of ‘Keaaacnes Control to U. of Ottawa.

Dalhousie lost her chance for Radio Debating honors
this year when her team was eliminated from the competition by the strong University of Ottawa entry.

It was an unusual debate, for it vividly contrasted the
two methods of mere orevalent in Canada—the argu
mentative English type

and the oratorical French system.

Mr. Richardson ey the second speaker for Ottawa spoke in
English. Mr. Landreville and the Ottawa leader addressed
the audience in fluent French. The presentation of the Ottawa team was superior in oratorical flow of language to
that of Dalhousie. Unfortunately for the most of us, the
arguments in Franch could not be ace urately followed, but
Ottawa’s points must have been more forcefully presented
if the decision is to be used as an indication.

There has been some comment on
the fact that the judges were all
French and Upper Canadian, rather
than representative of the listening
audience. It has also been mentioned
that one of the judges took part in
‘Coaching the Ottawa team, while a
| prominent Nova Scotian declined to
lact on the judging committee because he had given a small bit of
information to Dalhousie. It is true
that the three judges were accustomed to, and expecting, the type of
debating which Ottawa offered, but
any questioning of the decision
would be a gross reflection of their
integrity and would only cause Dalhousie to appear petty and ridiculous
in the eyes of outsiders.

It has also been claimed that Ottawa did not debate the question,
having argued splendiddly for the
Affirmative by advocating International control of munitions when
“she should have supported the present system of private control”. This
may be true from the English viewpoint of how a subject shouldd be
debated, but it must again be remembered that the French system
differs greatly from ours,

This debate has taught us that
we must temper our arguments in
the fires of eloquence and oratory,
rather than giving a mere unimpassioned presentation of points, if
we are to succeed in interprovincial
debating against a team whose training and methods are radically different from ours. We are grateful
for the lesson, but can only feel that,
had the judges been Maritime and
English, the decision would

BASKETBALL PAYS ITS WAY

A net gate of $63.10 was realized at the Gymnasium on Friday
evening at the basketball game
and dance, the attendance being
record-breaking. Total expenditures were close to $128, and
gross receipts about $98. The

actual net cost to Dalhousie for
the two games with Mount Allison was $30.15.

 

 

Pine Hill Pen-Pricks

The At Home is now within
pleasurable distance, and the telephones are undergoing the consequent strain.

 

One conversation overheard accidentally (not by the writer) consisted in part of something like this.
The luckless Pine Hiller who was
trying to secure the company of a
young lady for the festive occasion
has apparently just been refused:

“L. P. H. “But I say, you’re the
tenth one I’ve called”. Fortunately
the reply was not audible, but apparently the young lady had spoken

“wiser than she knew.”

One of the busiest men in Pine Hill
just now is our ex-seagoing punster
(at present under pledge). His wide
and omniscient acquaintance with
the other sex renders his services
very popular and very desirable “at
this present juncture”, especially for
those shy unfortunates who cannot
draw from among their own
quaintance.

He tells one rather strange story

OC
i. a SS

ac
have

with a somewhat Shavian bite to it, been rendered as unbiasedly for
of a youth who accompanied him to Seen aie

a meeting of the organization popu-| The Gazette, on behalf of the stularly known as “the Scots”. There|dent body of Dalhousie, extends

heartiest congratulations to the University of Ottawa and expresses the
sincere hope that her success may be
continued in a like manner.

he introduced his companion to a
young lady, and she did the rest.
How it happened, the young man
cannot remember, but this one thing
he knows, that the young lady ‘aa |
invited to accompany him to the At
Home and yet he does not remember
asking her, It is, however, nobody’s
business so long as both are satisfied, and it is a well known fact that
the Life Force will not be denied.

 

 

Glee Club Ex-Pres.
To Play in London

 

Yes, sir! Ha! ha! ha! Jimmy. Gray, President of last
year’s Glee Club, who arranged
Plans forthe At-3onie are “now such successful presentations as

completed, and are being put into
execution. We all look forward to a
“bigger and better” affair in spite
of the yowling to which we are foreed to listen at all hours of the night.
(That is a reference to the chorus
practices). However, time. will tell,
and we hope to have a splendid report next week, provided, as MacVicar says, (he asked me not to

mention his name this week, but it

can’t be helped) the affair goes over
with a bang.
cen eed et 2 ee SY
NO TICE

There will be an important general meeting of all Arts and
Science students at 12.30 on Saturday in Room 3 of the Arts

Building. A full attendance is
requested.

“Marryin’ Marion”, as well as reviving the One Act Play Shield competition, is shortly to make his amateur debut in the London stage.

London Hospital, at which Jim is
now a student, presents a play each
year, the proceeds going to charity
(just like our very own Dal nights).
This year they are offering one of
Edgar Wallace’s mysteries in Drury
Lane theatre, the show to run for
three consecutive nights.

There were ninety trying for the
role of the Canadian lawyer, but
Jim’s true accent won the part for
him. The Phi Rho boys will be especially pleased to learn of Jim’s
success, but all the college joins in
extending congratulations to hir2,
remembering the splendid shows he
gave to us last year.
    
  

mori Sf
| a

ao,
“—.

 

est College Paper in America”

 

EDITORIAL STAFF

 

 

Editors
W. A. REID
ve os ee eae
News Editor gst Cae
). MACLELLAN,
3 B-6096 B. 4884
- Business Manager Assistant
Cc. D. WALLACE ROWLINGS ARTHUR MEAGHER
: B. 4647 B. 2886
DELUSIONS

“A man is only as big as the things which annoy him.”

After we have seen or come in contact with a skin disease,
our imagination often leads us to believe that we have contracted it. We begin to itch and scratch the part for relief.
Our nails may cause infection, and the more we seek relief by
scratching, the worse the irritation spreads until our body is

-eovered and our mind can think of nothing else but our afflic
tion. A medical man either would have paid no attention to
the first mildly annoying sensation, or would have applied some
preparation to soothe and cure it at once. The doctor knew
what should be done—and did it.

There is a parallel result when we permit ourselves to be
irritated by trivial occurrences. Little disappointments ; meaningless words spoken to us by a friend; unexplained actions of
a loved one, intended merely to tease us; the failure of a chance
acquaintance, who has forgotten us, to recognize us on the
street—all tend to vex us for the moment. Some of us are big
enough to laugh and forget the incident. Most of us are bothered for a while, then slowly forgive the offender, but take a
long time to forget. Some of us, however, irritate and magnify
the little trouble, increasing and spreading it until it covers our
whole thought. We imagine that a great, unforgivable wrong
has been done, which only a humble and sincere apology can
relieve.

Why should these trivial, usually untintended, things vex
and annoy us? Why should we “get in a stew” over a mere
nothing? Perhaps it is a visitation for the innately suspicious
natures which most of us possess or develop from habit or
associations. Why can’t we be big enough to overlook the insignificant things which should never irritate us if we took
time to consider their paltriness? To be aggravated by such

- cobwebs of experience is a reversion to the fancied sufferings

of childhood. Why should we even seek to rationalize our
puerile behaviour? It only makes our ordinarily scrubbyenough natures appear on a smaller, pettier scale than which
they uusually exist. A man is only as big as the things which
annoy him.

CONGRATULATIONS TO U. OF OTTAWA

Dalhousie’s radio debaters are busy at their law books

_ these days, catching up on the work they left behind them, for

hopes of this University winning the all-Canada debating
championship were dashed with the announcement that our:
team had been bested by the team from the University of
Ottawa. However, Dalhousians who listened in had no reason
to be ashamed of their representatives who, even if they did
go down, went with flying colours. The debate, we think, was
ably argued by both sides. Messrs. Richardson and Landreville fully upheld the high standard set previously in the University of New Brunswick and McGill debates.

To them the Gazette extends its congratulations for their
very fine efforts and its consolations that the judges did not
see fit to send them into the finals. It would also like, unofficially, in the name of all Dalhousie students to thank the
members of the teams for their work and efforts which has
resulted in bringing honour to Dalhousie campus.

And in the name of Dalhousie we congratulate the team
from the University of Ottawa and wish its members every
- in the finals of the series against the University of

oronto.

BRITAIN’S MOVIES

For many years the saying, “British is best’, was considered axiomatic, that is, with an exception for English-made
moving pictures. The latter were generally produced by companies with small capital and played by second-rate actors. But
even Americans will admit there has been a change.

From Ellstree today comes a definitely finer class of picture, produced by large companies, well directed, as technically
perfect as is possible and with the best artists of the world
playing the major parts. It seems as if all England has been
aroused to prove to its satisfaction what it can do.

Perhaps the most characteristic feature of the English
people has been shown by the change. Not content with merely
following Hollywood, British producers have bettered it. They
have demonstrated that the movie can be entertainment for
the educated as well as a psychological opium for the masses
who go to movies to get away, for an evening, from the horrors

of their daily lives. While Hollywood has continued monotonously

to turn out its sex and gangster thrillers with an occasional
overdone de Mille pageant, Ellstree has been packing theatres by
filming well-known musical comedies, plays and biographies of

--—s great Englishmen. These latter have attracted the attention

.

are

“?
en fT
age

   
         
     
  

is
,*

= .
pe ee Dal

|! a: s ain

oe : .
a ks ,

i? be | i

be ‘a aay

ae =
ee ae
Lees
i

_ : se
ae
‘ s

of educators in that they have presented history in its most
interesting form.

Such a movie is, we understand, to run next week at a local
theatre. The leading role, portraying the Duke of Wellington,
will be taken by England’s most popular actor, George Arliss,
and will faithfully follow the life of the Iron Duke. We advise

Dal students to read their advertisements and to keep this picture in mind. It may be better than

“Henry the Eight’.

~

- i

eh
x

mk

a
a r
: iy
Sie

  

al

   

}
ee fi
a
om Or:

oF
te

  
 

COMMENT

~

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Something
To Think About

On Friday night Dalhousie was
defeated by Ottawa in the semifinals of the series of radio debates
being conducted by the Canadian
Radio Commission.

There has been much criticism
about the campus since this decision had been meted out, and with
due deference to the learned
judges it is submitted that
grounds for such criticism are not
unfounded.

Ottawa presented a nice argument, we congratulate them on
their victory. But their argument
was not on the subject of the debate. It has always been customary at least so far as all debates
conducted at Dalhousie are concerned for the affirmative to define the resolution and for the
negative to argue on the resolution as defined. The Ottawa team
did not follow any such precedent,
and though the contest was a debate, the judges to paraphrase one
of our local newspapers mistook
rhetoric for argumentation. .

THE WORLD COURT AND
SENATE REJECTION

The United States rejection of
membership in the World Court,
however great its psychological effect in hindering international action, leaves unchanged the part she
has played in the Assembly of Nations at Geneva. ;

On January 29th, by a vote of 52
to 36 the Senate refused to participate in the pro-totals of adherence
to the World Court. This result must
have been surprising to the intelligent American as it was generally
thought that the time had come for
more American participation in International Tribunals and agreements. But little chance does a bill
of this nature have against such a
flood of organized propaganda as
was evident prior to the vote of the
Senate. The propaganda was marked by exaggeration, misrepresentation, and political threats, some even
going to the extent of claiming that
it would witness the usurption of
American liberty and involve the nation in continual warfare with the
“squabbling Europeans” It is estimated that over 40,000 telegrams
were sent to American Senators by

 

 

For some reason or other some

their constituents deploring the people dislike Huey Long, so much
= of adherence to such a so that he received a crude fashcourt.

ioned bomb in Monday morning’s
mail, Fortunately or otherwise
the contraption failed to work and
nothing startling happened.

However, it was enough to stir
Long’s office staff into confusion,
and sent three government agencies and the Senator himself in
search of the sender.

Chief among the propagandists was
the verbose Father Coughlin, who in
nation-wide broadcasts convinced
some of the constituents that the
purposes of the World Court were
sinister and subversive. His broadcasts were crude and appealed to the
illiterate. The veteran William Randolph Hearst, who without moving
from his palatial estate in the hills
of California can stir up more trouble and dissension than anyone, was
right on the job with the whole force
of his gigantic press organization
united upon the defeat of the World
Court adherence.

 

This should provide material for
a debating team of another year.
On Tuesday, Great Britain launched an inquiry into the private
manufacture of arms implementing a promise made by the government in the House of Commons
last autumn. A royal commission
of seven, including a woman will
conduct the inquiry, with wide

Likewise there were two other
noisy men who had their share in its
defeat. They were none other than
the windy representative from Idaho, powers for summoning the docuSenator Borah and the Senator Dic-| ments of private arms companies.
tator Huey Long from Baton Rouge. es
Although Borah was not so active in Emperor Haille Selossil of Abyshis appeal to the American people he} sinia claims descent from King
led the movement in the Senate] Solomon and the Queen of Sheba.
chamber. Benito Mussolini, dictator of Italy,

Misinformed public opinion was| looks upon Julius Caesar as his
also not without its effect. The con-| spiritual father.. Last week, in the
trolling influence in this respect was| warlike spirit of their forerunners
the belief that the World Court was| they prepared to settle old scores.
an arm of the League and that to On Mussolini’s orders 30,000
enforce its decrees the covenants of| Italians were mobilized and are on
the League would have to be invok-| their way to Italian Somaliland
ed. Naturally to the proponents of} and Eritrea bordering on Ethioadherence such proposals are absurd.| pia, It looks like trouble. Mean
Another factor in the defeat was| time every possible effort is being
the belief that entry into the Court| put forth to avoid any bloodshed
was associated with the subject of! and to restore peace and unity bewar debt cancellation, because some! tween the two peoples.
of the judges on the Court would
represent those nations in default
to the United States. The New York
Times states that this was even
argued in the American Senate notwithstanding the fact that the Court
cannot take action unless the American government is in accord.

When this presumption was rebutted it was then argued that, “there
would be such antagonism to our interest in the breasts of the judges; ports to the League of Nations and
that our rights would be endangered during its thirteen years had handed
by reason of the subconscious hosti- down over twenty-four judgments in
lity toward the United States on the | contested cases. Some of these cases
part of the Justices.” have involved great issues, for ex
Undoubtedly the long established | ample, the Brazilian Loans Case, the
doctrine of isolation which is incon- | Free Zone case between France and
sistent with any proposals for Inter- | Switzerland and the Eastern Greennational concurrence has had its|!and case between Denmark
effect in creating in the minds of | Norway.

Americans a phobia that anything to| With the creation of the World
do with Europe and the League of | Court there was brought into being
Nations is bad. To students of In-| for the first time a genuinely interternational Politics such proposals| national judicial tribunal of world
are inexplicable. To the Canadian| Wide scope, capable of adjudicating
such methods for defeat are foreign. | Such controversies as states might be
Not even the famous Conscription | Willing to submit to it. Its establishery of the French Canadian could| ment was contemplated in Article 14
compare with the organized propa-|of the covenant of the League and
ganda to keep a great nation from| its statute was drawn up by a comcontributing its bit to the prevention | Mittee of experts. It is significant
of International strife. that the prime mover of this com
The World Court, or as it is offi- mittee was an American, Elihu Root.
cially called, the Permanent Court of | American Jurists have likewise servInternational Justice has now com-|ed on it ever since its inception, al
pleted thirteen years of fruitful| though they were not appointed by
work. Numerous disputes fraught the American: Government. It is an
with almost insuperable difficulties | other case of American prophets and
that threatened international peace | organizers being without honour in
were prevented. In addition the| their own country. The Senate reCourt has become the “mecca” for | jection is even more illuminating for
the formation of a new law for the | the light which it throws upon the
settlement of International disputes |influence of isolationist psychology
It has also given many advisory re-|and organized propaganda.

 

Hilter stepped into the limelight
once more this week. On Monday,
two German women were beheaded by the Nazis. The crime they
were accused of was selling military secrets. They may have deserved such punishment, but Hitler
does things differently. Placards

EERE

and

 

= r. nee

_ vT . - — ‘oe ee = =
at ie ne eee etm a ee _— a
‘

February 21, 19385

 

 

POET’S CORNER

NIGHT THAT I LOVED

Sadly, Night that I loved, I see you start, and rise,
And flee before the crimson heralds of the Dawn

Come, gold-emblazoned, o’er the quiet sea.

 

My eyes

Grow red and sore from weeping, for I know you’ve gone

Out of my lonely life.

Gone, too, is the knowing,

One breathless moment, what it really meant to love.
You came on me so silently, colours glowing,
Creeping o’er the pale-blue expanse so high above.

Beyond desire, austere, untouchable you seemed—

A proud Diana, thinking only of the chase—

Till through your swift dark flowing hair a sunbeam gleamed
And I beheld with growing rapture, then, your face.

Bright-eyed, warm-lipped and darkly-beautiful you were.
Beams of the fast-descending sun reddened your cheek
And threw bright glints of golden light upon your hair.
Suddenly through the dusk I heard you softly speak:

Your voice was like a fairy symphony blended

With songs of angels and of nightingales on Earth,
Overcome and held enthralled my soul ascended

To seek the lips from which that glorious sound had birth.

Chained by its mortal bonds, the feeble, forgone clay
That once was mine lay on the slowly-cooling sand,

And like the lightning’s flash, my eager soul and gay
Sped forth to clasp and kiss and hold your offered hand.

Gently you drew me to you then and softly pressed
Warm lips upon my eyes, and ev’ry earthly care
Fled from my tired, aching mind as I caressed
Your throat and felt your velvet fingers in my hair.

The sweetest fragrance of the rose was in your breath,
Exotic perfumes filled the air with wond’rous scent

And willingly I closed my eyes—If only Death

Should chance to come, with you, O Night, I die, content—

I must have slept, for cold and shivering I woke
Alone upon the sand to see her disappear
Into the West, wrapped in her purple riding-cloak.

Night that I loved!

announcing gruesome executions
were plastered on billboards
throughout Berlin in order to give
the widest possible publicity to the
execution of spies. That human
bloodshed should be advertised
just as a show in a theatre is advertised is really unbelievable in
this so-called civilized age.

 

France and England have abandoned dirigibles and with the
Macon disaster of last week it
looks like the United States too
will turn her attention from dirigible to airplanes. At least President
Roosevelt said he would not at the
present time recommend that any
more funds be spent on airships,
he would prefer if the money were
available to build fifty scouting
planes. The Macon cost $4,000,000.

 

Lloyd’s wrote an insurance policy
last week for the “rarest stamp in
the world” a magenta-colored one
cent specimen issued in British
Guiena in 1856. The stamp was

Night that I loved!

The Dawn is here!

 

insured for £10,000 and is now on
the way to London from New
York to be sold at auction. Imagine a one cent stamp valued at
approximately $50,000 — maybe
good things come in small parcels
after all.

BIRKS-
 

Silver toiletware — a gift
of quality and
beauty.

lasting

Open stock patterns permit purchasing individual
pieces from a few dollars
upwards,

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

Shane’s Annual

 

February Shirt Sale

Your chance to lay in a stock of good quality
Shirts at a great saving ...

ARROW — FORSYTHE — TOOKE — LEWIS

All the best makes with full sized bodies and perfect

fitting collars.

These shirts come in collar attached

and separate collar styles—regular value to $2.50.

Sale Price $] .39 3 for $4.00

COME EARLY BEFORE THEY ARE PICKED OVER

Shane's Men's Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN

ROAD

 

 
  
   
  
 

2
F

 

| STUDENTS

 

THE FOURTH BOOK
OF BUNK

Chapter XVII.

. And so it has come to pass
that many in the Lande of Dal succumbeth to seekness, which striketh
all both young and the elders—the
‘great and the mighty—and the leetle
and the puny. Even the Profs falleth ill with the Flugh, the Meesels,
and the Hen Phox. And, too, the
buhteeful ladees that dwelleth beyond the sekret portals of Shee-Reff
Yall are Prey for the Keeng of all
Evils. The Wenter must take its
Tole and the Lettle Lande of Dal
cannot be an Xceptian. But heed
all ye who have taken to your
Bheads, heed ye well, soon the
warme springe winde will blow

GAUVIN |
SENTZEL
Photographers to
DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

Special Rates to

 

24 Hour Finishing aloft, and that will reminde you of
Service ‘the Geem and the long tables, and

the flowing Eenk. Remember that
you will not forever be seek, so prepare yourselves for the bhest and
returneth to your Bhenches of
Whork.

2. But long before the Weeks of
Seyes, there are happy daze in store
for the Children of Dal. From behind the Walls in the Lande of Forrest the Noble Counsel of the Studes
is living on eets last limbs. Very
very few daze have they left to surOBSERVER vive. For soon they will receive the

Portals, xcept Rankeene, for Mhen
NOTICE ,may come, and Mhen may go but he

“Anyone wishing the position of lives on the studes Fhive Hundred
window opener for Room 3 may have and Feefty Bhuks forever. The
the same by applying to J. W. Doug-' Benyett Feescher, and the Iron
las, Kings, the present holder of the Dhuke Mak-kevir shall, too, pass
office, before 2.30 p.m. on Thursday. ‘from the vugh of the Studes, and the

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Gardren Rd
Phone B. 6992

 

 

Qualifications required is the ability’
to fall asleep gracefully while Prof.
Maxwell lectures.

Observer hears that a certain popular Geologist is going to go on a
hike if he doesn’t pay more attention to the hills of Judea and the
Ararat Mt. and attend a few Bib.
Litt. lectures. Maybe ham and Israel are incompatible. Who knows?
Here are some quotations from his
notes, after taking dictation from
Dr .Watson. ,

“The Lord rode into the city on an
ass’s colt, and the people went before

him strewing garbage and shouting, |

only Mhen who standeth up for the
leebertee of the Lande of Dal weel
be gone. Who weel be anxshus to
take their seats, surely none weel be
fhound, at leest there weel not be too
mhany. So the studes weel bee kareful the nhext time they cast there
skornful eye upon a Bhallot-Bhox.
3. Then in the Lande of Forrest
nhew rumours were spreading in the
Air by the wiked light-headed
spreaders of Prof-O-Ghande, They
speeketh of beginning a nhew Counsel of Studes for the Mhen of the
Profeshun. “Sep-A-Rate” they say,
“from those Keeds of Studleigh, let
them remain alone.” These Revo
“In the name of the Lord, how’s!jushunists find many followers

Anna?” |
*The men who followed Jesus about
were called the twelve opossums.’
‘The ancient Hebrews thought that
God spoke to them through transoms.”

Will the (in) famous Med. Room

be as dark as ever at the Pine Hill! Kreetiks

At Home on Friday night?

 

among the Flowyers of Med, who
theenketh that All the Whorld was
made for them alone, and they forgetteth that once they were the
Mhen of Studleigh. They shout and
klamor alowd that there is at Dal no
uneety or speeret, and yet they try
to kill the last Remanes. Like all
of there Klass, they
thinketh not but talketh lowd and

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Gazette
BOOK REVIEW

“SINBAD THE SOLDIER”

“Sinbad the Soldier” by Percival
Wren is a stirring Arabian Adventure which vividly recalls to our
minds the fascinating and immortal
tales of “The Arabian Nights.” Incidentally this book is the story or
really continuance of the life of a
character so vividly portrayed in the
author’s “Action and Passion.”

Dysart, the hero, starts off as a
cavalry recruit in the British Army,
in the mid nineties. He soon tires of
prosaic peacetime soldering in England, buys his way out and departs
on a gun running expedition, smuggling arms to rebellious natives in
Morocco. There he is captured by
desert Arabs, sold into slavery and
is bought by a strange white sultan,
a liege of the reigning potentate,
who turns out to be Chandos, a reneade Englishman in command of
vast revenues, many subjects and an
army.

The story then becomes the life
and adventures of these two men.
Chandos was the son of a British
Indian Colonel slain in the mutiny of
1857, born posthumously to the
widowed mother. She had been abducted after the uprising by the
Nawab of Aundhara, foreed to become a member of his harem, and
accompany him in the exile from
India which his part in the mutiny
compelled him to undergo.

Chandos was thus reared as a
Moslem and as the son of the villainous Nawab. He spent his boyhood
in Mecea, then ran away with a
childless old sheik, the latter benevolently adopting him. Thus Chandos inherited sovereignty of the
powerful desert tribe in whose midst
Dysart first encounters him.

Dysart’s exciting story of the
savage pilgrimage to Mecca, and its
grim aftermath should provide a
rare treat for callow he-men with
the imagination of pugnacious small
boys.

The author seems to have firsthand knowledge of exotic lands and
their barbaric peoples, but he, like
Edgar Rice Burroughs, never visited
the lands of which he writes, but
makes extensive use of a marvellous
imagination which Providence has so
beneficiently given him.
alte crinnaneatoseennisiomsscsnsnemnesbsnsscaciegh tims
walk on steeks. They are naught but
Dumb — but they are powerful in
nhumbers if not in Branes.

4. In the Lande of Lhaw all
awaiteth weeth great expectancee
the arrival of the day of the ArguMhent of the Smeeth Shield. The
dday when the great lowd voyce of
Makkevoi of the shores of NhuFound-Lhande and the squeek of
Spec the Spot weel Kompete with
the Premyer Hhansohn and _ the
Feeshermhan Thir bot for the gratest honor to be given the Studes of
Lhaw. The speeret is running high,
and many of the Bhuds of Bharreesters lay their Whagers on bhoth
sides. "Tis rumoured that the Mhen
weel wage a steef bhattel, and tis
wondered if they will surpass the
great oratory of the ever Famus
Ox-ley and Dubeenskee.

5. And it was hardlee a week
since the Warriors of the Air waged
a losing battle with there Add-VerSorys from the fore home of Feesher’s Benyett. ’Twas a hard fight to
lose, but in every battel one must
be the Lhoser, .and this time the
Fates played against the Favorite
Lhande of Dal. The seelver voyce of
Reechardson the Fare, and the Fire of
Laundry-Ville the small threeled all
the Studes of Dal,,but not the judges
who were whize in the ways of there
country, but nhot in ours. But just
as there is honour in Veektory, so
too is there honour in loss—if the
loss and defeat is taken with a
smile. Dal’s waggers of the Tongue
went close to the End and brought
honour unto the fare nhame of the
Lhande of Dal. The Children of
Dal are proud of there orahthors,
and whether in Veektory or in logs,
all were prowd of the true Dal-housSee speeret that was shown.

6. And just as in the “Trane of
Ghosts” which was a success, the
heroes who were not seen were
praised. So too, in the Debbaters,
the Mhen behind the scenes deserveth all the mhore cheers, The
Profs of Dal, each and every one,
willingly gaveth their time unto the
Radeoh team of Dal. They were the
leeders of the success, and there
labours are highly prazed in every
korner of the College by The Sea.

 

Page Three

 

| RAMBLING |

“The Moving Finger writes, and
having writ, Moves on.”
—Omar Khayyam.

COLLEGE BLECTIONS

The time is at hand for the student
body to choose new officers to guide
their various organizations. Are the
students going to put the reins of
government in capable hands or are
they willing to allow popularity and
fraternal organizations to hold
sway? ‘This question can only |
answered at the polls. Sam Slick
once said: “You may get purity of
election, but how are you to get
purity of members?” Consider carefully the qualifications necessary for
the various offices and then how the
nominees compare—above all do not
vote for a chap just because you
know him better than the other
fellow.

This is no popularity contest—it
is the best man for the particular
job that is wanted.

If you are approached to cast you
vote in a certain way stand up fo:
your rights—vote as you think right
and do not be persuaded for Real
tics make a man as crooked as a
pack does a pedlar”’.

To the successful officers we would
say in the words of a famed jurist
of this province:

“Be honest, be consistent, be temperate ... neither flatter the mob,
nor flatter the government; support
what is right, oppose what is wrong;
what you think, speak; try to satisfy
yourself, and not others; and if you
are not popular, you will at least be
respected; popularity lasts but a day,
respect will descend as an heritage

 

/AND ALL’S WELL

All is well, all the time
when you have your
Turrets along. Cool —
sweet—-satisfying Turrets
do add a lot to life’s enjoyments. Why don’t
you introduce yourself to
them? Turrets are sure
worth knowing.

 

    
   
         
        
  
  

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGARETTES
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited.

|
TREES | room, then the whole upstairs for

| the missing tree, peering hopefully:

Trees were classed from time be. | under all dresses and bathtubs. Af
ginning as good and evil. The pine | last you aceuse the dog for having.
tree was the emblem of the evil and | hidden it and you search downstairs’
all the rest were supposedly good, | While muttering appropriate words
If a man ate an apple, if he bit off |for the occasion and at everything
in general. Then, when you are exhausted and ready to weep you look:
in the other shoe and at the poor

   
      
   

  

 

 

 

to your children.”

The student body must stand back
of its representatives, for ‘where
there is no confidence there can be
no honesty.”

LL sls

more than he could chew, it consequently stuck in his throat and he

Everyone has a job to :
are a suffered greatly; he was a great sin
verform no matter how small and : , : -tree v S eg

ts Fe ke : ees ot ae ne | ner. People are still eating apples | Se lost shoe-tree you say such
riz y seem. One for all anc ‘ ae

all £ “s ees some go down more easily than | Such things, that is, if no parental

AM OF One. | others. ears are about:

 

| Trees were made, the good trees, In a ee eae

® for people to obtain sustenance. Af-!1 would make the statement that
Campus Interviews | ter nit the people I mean, had ob-| there are many kinds of trees. My
itained enough surplus energy they favorite fruit, soft, hard, trembling,
‘used the bad trees to climb upon | Weeping, red, white and blue, andi
| and swing from branch to branch, two or “tree’ other kinds of trees:
or, to be more poetical, from limb to | But: speaking of trees personally, I
limb. People, did I say? Oh well, do not like them. They are obviously:
people are still climbing trees, be- superflous. They stare at me, andi
cause even the educationalist has a|! Stare back. They get in my way,
way of putting it, “I am up a tree, and I go around them. If I go unif ever there was one.” der them, a branch hits me in the!
‘face. If I go under a fruit tree, the’
respective fruit, if falling on my
head, might cause my death. If
there is a tree in any shape or form

 

(This is the first of a series of inquiries from students as to their
present and future lives——Ed. Note.)

 

 

Edward F. (“Lou”) Crease: As I
am only eighteen years old at present, I feel it would be rather rash to 3
express any intentions I may enter- There is another group of trees
tain in my mind about my future, that aré very essential to human
but I do not mind telling you of welfare. These are the nut-producsome of my pet ideas. As is obvious}™& tees. I might add that many
from the fact that I am embarked |2Uts exist which have not been proon a commerce course, I intend to duced by trees. However, without
fully prepare myself for the job of the nuts to fill the toes of our
gathering enough money together to| Christmas stockings or, in. other |
make life pleasant for my little girl words, to fill our already full stom- ,
—you know, the one with the green achs | (too full for comfort) after |
mittens. My innate love for children the interminable Christmas dinner,
will result, I am sure, in the bright- just what would we poor mortals
ening of our little cottage in Hub-|4°? Im fact, without the trees to
bards with a couple of little boys, produce the nuts, we would probably o9
and about ten girls, I have already abandon the idea of Christmas any- |
promised Big Jim to name the first|W@Y- For what is Christmas withboy after him. I have a lot of dra-|°Ut @ tree? “Oh, just Christmas
matie talent, and have been given| Without a tree.”
my first chance in “The Ghost
Train”,

 

{

is the oak. It is very agreeable
with its numerous and compatible
“okes”’.

 

 

 

 

DISENCHANTMENT.

Only a golden thread

Connecting the now and the past;
nly a golden thread,

Much to frail to last,

Only a golden thread,
At which most men would sigh;
There are trees that fall over very ; Only a woman’s hair
easily. The most common is the hall-| Found in the apple pie.
tree. If on one branch there hangs
a coat and on the opposite nothing, |
and as you rush by at nine o’clock
to reach Chemistry I before the

Donald B. (“The Seed’) Saunderson: I like fire-plugs too. I have just
been seeing on the Glee Club stage

 

 

in what was the greatest char-| door is locked, it inevitably falls|} At your B 73 76 ;
acter role I have ever interpreted.| | °Ver with a crash of consternation Service “ey i:
Yes, she is in training in Monrteal,|#5 you slam the front door. |
but let that pass. My greatest ambi- There are trees that can never be Lowest, Rate. to. Students, '

 

tion is to run the elevator at Shirreff Hall, five cent a trip, one-hour
limit. Miss MacKeen says my drawing room manner is superb. I think
so too. My athletic training helps
me at bridge, I must confess, although chaperoning the basketball
team is also a great help. Helen’s a
swell girl.

found when they are most wanted.
You look first through your bed
 

 

Halifax

Transfer

Where

in the Evening?

—_—_—_—_—_—_

 

 

Donald (“Cream-Puff’) Bauld: I
am just twenty years old. Mother
says I used to be the most unspoilt
little boy. Daddy says no. I would
like to make, oh lots and lots of
money. She says she will only be
content with a millionaire, so watch
my dust! She’s going to get a dandy
home too. Oh, no, I don’t like apartments. I want a whole house to
myself. That is, to the two of us,
but we shall be as one. I am assistant society editor of The Halifax
: Daily Star.

Why, The Green Lantern, of course, with
its

MacLeod, Balcom
Limited

cosy, attractive

“Canterbury Room”’,

You'll like it.

DRUGGIST

THE

GREEN LANTERN

Halifax and Bedford

 

seen

a ee: Mite

 B.7138.|

 

that I can tolerate even slightly iti.

HALIFAX TAXI CO. .

:
:
:

' : is na Sey aD ¥.
a eS ee ee ee

a

 
  
 
    
     
   

   

al a i ss
, ¥ 2
- ake
ae? ye
+r
im

ory r over

A. and Waterers Baw to sar te Shicoth Working Tigers.

yers leaped into first place in the City Basketball

ague with tao -wins—and no losses—by a win over Wander
a ‘St ey. The invading collegians form New Brunswick
d the Tiger’s den to again find them unbeatable.

A. gives the black and _gold team the exhibi
The

home and home series. Tiger Sam Fairstein has dismissed

 
   
 
   
  
     
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
       
    
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

retire.

agi MAL VS. MT. A. 24—20
on. It was no easy victory for the
ng -McDonald coached team in
¢ second meeting with Mt. Alli-,
. n University, as the Mounties took
an early lead not easy to overcome.
Dal had the majority of shots at the
pa eas sket, missing shot after shot,
Fs oe while Mt. A. had a larger percent- |
age. made of those tried. Penalties
me “were handed out frequently on the
Mt. A. defense which the Tigers:
ser took advantage of to add many
; ce points.
yee On the first tip-off Ted Crease,
"Dal forward recovered the ball in his
wn defense zone. Tall Bill GladBa Shaws gave Dal a slight lead with
the first score from close in. Hyisky
for Mt. A. retaliated with a long
7 ig oar: clean floor goal to tie. Before the
as a Tigers could claw again Brodie and
aed | Hyiski between them added six
‘more to bring the score 8 to 2. Captain Don Bauld called time out for
the black and gold team; at the
ea same time Mt. A. substituted Bill)
_ Austin. Play being resumed, Sam
a Rey i Boiestein added three points on per. sonal fouls. Austin came back with
Perea” ae long loop shot from way out.
fey, When the period ended the odds
ae afi looked all too good for the Mounties
_ with the score 15—9 for them.
S ae The second half saw Bill Austin,
, ae Mt. A. forward, forced from the
Wey game with a leg injuruy, and about
half way through the et a Mt.

o

C4
7
og

- a

CUBS ARE DEFEATED
ache ey TECH SQUAD, 25-17

,

C “Cubs, : who in the first game
; h Tech found them an easy mark
ul fered defeat by the same team on
si es floor.
+ The Technical ‘College 1 men led all
through the game which was a stiff
Si. ie _ battle to the end. Poor shooting
ie Bs spelt defeat for the Dal team as time
a after time they missed open baskets.
Fraser of Tech was high-scorer with
ts t 13 points while Edgar Stewart, a
newcomer jto the league, was easily
outstanding for Dalhousie.

-_
foe aie
a ae
,

Murphy, Lyall, Lorway, 4; Green, 2
Simmonds, 2; DuBilier, S. Miller, 2;
Dean.

Tech—Fraser, 13; Mann, White, 2 ;
- Butler, 10; Murray, ‘Doucett,
_ _ Thomas, 1; Kerr.

It’s easy to find a pattern

es 10 to 11%,

 

, Cubs—Sullivan, Stewart, 7; Simon,

EATON’S

Lis former plan to Ernie Richardson was out of the
q t. A. game, busied with debating plans.

A. guard was banished on fouls.
Dal began to have better success
with their shots as Mt. A. was held
to 5 points while the Tigers accu‘mulated 15. Bill Gladstone led the
-winners in scores with 7 points, followed by Don Bauld with 6 and Sam
Fairstein 5.

Dal—Don Bauld, 6; Ted Crease,
‘4; Bill Gladstone, 7; Chuck Lorway,
2; Milt Musgrave, 3; Sam Fairstein,
5; Charlie Anderson.

Mt. A.—I. Hyisky, 6; W. Austen,
2; B. Brodie, 8; Owen, 2; Adair, McIntosh, J. Stoneman, S. Bell, Warwick.

Referees: Abe
Harry Handler.

Mandelstan and

 

DAL, 30; WANDERERS, 12

Dalhousie continued to hold the
leadership of the City League when
with a 30—12 win over the Wanderers they literally ran their opponents into the floor. The contest was
rough throughout and packed with
thrills for Dalhousie supporters. At
the first tip-off the ball went to a
Dal forward; the Wanderers’ guards
Were drawn out, and Gladstone slipped the ball in just five seconds after the opening whistle. The score
stood 10—0 for Dalhousie before
Young found the basket and put in
the visitors’ first score. The Wanderers, who played throughout the
game a slow-breaking type of attack, held Dalhousie from then on
and: the half ended 12—4.

The second period opened with
another rush and Ted Crease, this
time, scored within a few seconds of
resumption of play. He went on to
score ten more points and_ finished
up high scorer with 12 points. Bauld
was close behind with his usual
good game and a total of 8 points.
Sam Fairstein, although not scoring
himself, figured in almost every
scoring play as he retained his reputation as the Tiger play-maker.

Dal—Bauld, 8; T. Crease, 12; D.
Crease, 1; Fairstein, Gladstone, 2;
Anderson, 1; Musgrave, 6.

NOTICE

Class ’36 will hold a meeting at
12 noon on Saturday in Room 2
of the Arts Building for the election of candidates to the Students’
Council and the discussion of important business. All class members are requested to attend. —

aS

and shade that pleases you,

in the wide range offered under the Renown label.
Knit of fine cashmere yarn, with mercerized cotton
patterns and splicings. A host of different colours in

~—6«#BOc

_ Eaton's — Main Floor

"Oo

LIMITED

 

‘es
Pr

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT REVIEW

(By ED STEWART)

Since their first game with the Y. M. C. A. the Tigers seem
to have gone into a shooting slump. Their combination appears
to be as good as ever, but when they get into position they
ean’t score. This was most evident in the game against Mt.
Allison. That same game demonstrated another thing. — It
showed the need for the team to learn some plays not dependent on the control of the tip-off. So long as the centre can
control the tip, those plays are enough, but if he cannot there
should be some out-of-bounds plays to fall back on.

Last Saturday the Dal hockey team played a 2-all draw with
St. Mary’s in the first game of a two-game total-goal series for
the city championship. Doug Bent, moved up to the forward
line, has proved a scoring threat and the team as a whole is
rapidly improving, so that it looks like another championship.
This time, however, it will have to be won; it will not be forfeted to them as was the case last year, when the other teams
dropped out.

The Gym team is having regular workouts and Mr. Stirling
expects on Munro Day to be able to put on as good, if not better, exhibition than last year.

Interfaculty hockey is drawing to a close, with Law and
Medicine winning their respective sections. The playoffs will
take place next week, Law greatly favoured dto win the battle.

Last Saturday those of us who were at the Gym at noon
saw the kind of basketball game we often read about but seldom see. With the score tied at 21—all, and the time up, Flo
Keniston was awarded a penalty shot, which she sank, giving
Dal the game by a 22—21 score. This will recall a somewhat
similar occasion several years ago when the Tigers were playing Acadia here, when, with the game practically over and Dal
housie 3 points behind, Don Bauld sank 3 penalty shots in a

row to tie the score.

strong, continuous government for students’ sport seems to be
worth backing. Their plan, now made known, ought to be supported by everyone and it is up to each society to choose a wide
awake, interested representative for the Management Committee. Arts and Science looks like the only weak sister who

won’t be moved.

Dal Co-eds Defeat Acadia
In Last Minutes of Play

Miss Kindle’s hoopsters upset all predictions when, minus
Isabel Fraser, they came through for a 22—21 victory. To
Flo Keniston goes the honor of the winning point when she
scored on a penalty awarded just before the final whistle blew.
Every member of the Dal team was playing a star game as the
contest progressed—the defense checking better and the forwards passing to better advantage.

FIRST PERIOD 14—14

Billy Oxley, Dal forward, ringed
the ball for the first score, only to
have the Acadians cancel it on
neat combination play. From then!
on it was first one team and then
the cther that got ahead, both teams

 

 

Boxing Trials Slated |
For March ist in Gym

On Friday, March 1, an elimination tournament will be held at the
Dal gym. to decide what boxers wiil

a

 

 

 

 

being forced to long shots because
of close guarding. Three minutes
before the period ended, Acadia was

leading by 2 baskets, only to have the
Dot Dobson and Billy Oxley tie the| brings

score on neat baskets.

SECOND HALF 8—7

Flo Keniston, who was playin
ays Eh senies the University, having pre
great basketball, recovered Dot Dobson’s rebound, to score, at the start
of the second half. Jean Ingraham,
Acadia, cancelled it soon after and
her team-mate, Miss Dunbar, added

represent Dal in the inter-collegiate
championships this year.

Chief interest is centering around
middleweight division which

together such well-known
fighters as Max Abelson, Harry
Gaum and Johnny Glorioso. If

Glorioso should win out, it will mark
the third class in which he has rep
viously won both the light-weight
and welter-weight crowns.

Besides the regular elimination
fights, it is possible that an exhibi
another. The fans were held breath-| tion bout will be arranged between
less when four successive shots at| Eddie Arab and “Hooker” McDonald.
the basket failed to score for Dal.|Since McDonald is undoubtedly one
Then a black and gold player was! 0f the smoothest boxers Cape Breton
given a foul shot and the spell on| has turned out in years, this bout
the basket was broken. Margaret} Will settle the question of whether

Woolaver, Sheila Stewart, and Mar-| there is a man of his own weight in

 

forward position, were playing

the floor.

points to their opponents.
of that, the score kept even.
deciding issue came just before the
period ended on a personal foul by

an Acadia girl. The time-up whistle
—then suspense, while Flo Kenisback-.
board and fell through the rim for.

ton’s penalty shot hit the

the winning score.
Dalhousie — Billy Oxley, 8

Ee

N-O TFCE

On Saturday at 2.15 the final
game of the intercollegiate hockey

league, and second of the two- |
game championship series, total |

score to decide, with St. Mary’s, |
Dalhousie ice-stars will be seen in
action for the last time in 1935.

As the last game was a tie, the |

outcome of the league entirely
depends on this game. Be there.
Your team needs your support.

_Afterwards a skating session

 

»- Dot
Dobson, 6; Flo Keniston, 6; Martha
Keniston, 2; Sheila Stewart, Martha Keniston, 2; Margaret Woolaver.

tha Keniston, who was shifted from| the province, capable of giving Arab
q|a real go.

great game on the defensive part of |
Acadia guards were be-|
ing penalized’ for fouls which gave
In spite
The

 

KING’S IN SECOND VICTORY

King’s again got into the winning
column with a 15—8 win over Medi,cine, Battling Carl Stoddard for five
‘runs, King’s took an early lead which
‘was nearly lost. Although the Meds
landed Joe Willet for 3 runs in their

part of the first inning—King’s se-|

cured their position with an 8 run
| rally in the second. The winners
added 2 more in the third, while
Meds outdid them with five scores.
‘Neither team was able to score
again.. The game put King’s, Law,

| Medicine in a tie for third place each
, having 2 wins to their credit.

| King’s—J. Graven, c; T. White, lf;
\J. Orlando, 1b; C. Hutchins, 2b; C.
Pratt, 3b; N. MacMahon, ss; G.
‘Smith, c; J. Willet, rf; Murphy, cf;
Meds.—R. MacLellan, e; C. Stoddard, p; I. Epstein, 1b; K. Garten,
(8b; S. Chinchin, ss; T. Beeber, 2b.

 

will be held, from 3.15 until 5 with
St Pat’s band in attendance. There
will be no charge for those showing Students’ Council tickets.

CASINO

Commencing Saturay

George Arliss

IN
‘The Iron Duke’

February 21, 1935

The Centuries Old
Cuban Dance of
Love

“RUMBA”

George Raft
Carole Lombard
Fri.

- Sat. - Monday

 

Saints Hold Dal to:2-All

Draw In First Series Game

Playing the first half of

a two-game series to decide a

winner in the City Intercollegiate Hockey League, Dal and St.
Mary’s hockey teams battled to a two-all draw, at the Forum

Saturday afternoon.

The game was close all the way, with the

Tigers coming from behind twice to overcome St. Mary’s small

lead. The teams will play the

second and deciding game next

Saturday, with the winner meeting the winner of a St. F. X.
and Acadia series for the Intercollegiate title of the province.
The game had no sooner got under way when Grant, flash
ing right winger of the Saints,

grabbed a loose puck near the

Dal blue line to slip around the Dal defense and shoot an easy
one behind Kyte, who was caught off guard. The goal was a
gift, being the result of some loose work of the Dal wings.

Following the score, the play zig-, promise of developing into the out| zagged between the rival goals for|standing forward on the team.
The plans of this year’s D. A. A. C. executive to develop a: ene rest of the period, and although | With his first-stringers hitting

|both goalies were called on to stop
some hot shots, the period ended
without further scoring. Forcing the
play from the opening whistle of the
second period, Dal’s efforts were
finally rewarded when Doug Bent
took the puck from one of St. Mary’s
players. Coasting in close, Doug
gave McNeil no chance on a hard
shot to the corner of the net.
now slowed somewhat, with both
teams playing back in order to prevent the other from scoring the deciding tally.

As the third period opened, both |
teams proceeded to put on steam in
the hope of scoring the deciding
counter. Dal missed several golden
opportunities in front of the Saints’
nets, but it remained for H. Conn, |
outstanding player on the ice, to!
shoot his team into the lead. 1
the puck from Dickie in Dal terri-|
tory, Conn skated through the Dal
defense and his hard drive from the
wing had Vic beaten all the way.

Dal’s second string appeared morc
effective than the Conn, Stanfield,
Mullane line, and Coach Buckley |
kept them on in an effort to tie up
the score. His strategy proved effective when about half way through
the period Graham picked up a
loose puck inside the Saints’ blue
line. His quick drive from the wing
had gone in and out of the net before McNeil had a chance to raise
his stick.

With the score tied at two-all,
Dal continued to force the play, but
at the end of the game the teams
were still deadlocked, and as a result both teams will start from:
scratch next Saturday, when
final game is to be played.

In Saturday’s game the Dal team
played a better combination game
than they had previously shown, and
one of the big reasons for the improvement is that Doug Bent is beginning to realize that he is no
longer the lone wolf that a defense
man is so apt to be, and that it
sometimes pays to pass the puck.
One of the best back-checkers on
the Buckley squad, Bent gives

 

stale etiniiaapenetliniesdSicienighioersieme-clieius ee
| “Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.

'| Halifax Steam Laundry
Limited

Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

 

 

FROM THE

WIN N START

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you

play the game with the best
that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.

Limited.

Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALITFAX, N. S.

 

Play | Carroll;

aking '

the!

their regular form in next Saturday’s tussle, Coach Buckley will
send on the ice one of the best balanced teams to represent Dal in
years, and at present everything
points to a second straight championship for the Tigers.

The line-ups:

Dal—Goal, Kyte; Defence, Crosby,
forwards, Cohn, Stanfield,
Mullane, Godwin, Bent, Graham.

St. Mary’s—Goal, McNeil; defence,
| Foley, Fullerton, Garraghan; for| wards, Conn, Grant, Bulley, » Boyle,
| Dickey, Comet:

2 Beazley refereed to the satisfaction of both teams and handed
out penalties to Stanfield, Godwin,
Graham and Carroll of Dal, and to
Garraghan and Foley of St. Mary’s.

i
DENTISTRY IN FIRST DEFEAT
| Poor fielding by Dentistry and
|heavy batting by Pine Hill gave a
| rather one-sided game to Theology.
| Both teams had been on even terms
in the league and the 16—1 victory
placed the winners in leading position. Pine Hill pounded the bal] for
6 runs in the initial inning, and before the sixth inning had 9 more
added to it. Meanwhile Gordon’ s offerings were causing the Dents to
fan the air, except in the fifth w hen
two hits aud an infield error gave
them a lone run. The winners added
another run in the seventh to bring
the score to 16. The winners had 18
hits to their credit as against two
for the losers. Pine Hill now have
four straight wins.
Pine Hill—D. MacLeod, ec;
Pp; Miller, 1b;

 

Gordon,
J. MacLean, 2b; G.

MacKenzie, 3b; H. Watts, s.s; D.
| Darrach, 1.f.
Denis Bernstein, lf; W. Va
leria, 3b; K, Congle, DFE. Bloai, lb;

A. Gols. s.s; L. Brown, 2b; B.

Lipschitz, ec; H, Heflich i

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

B-6070

 

 

 

 

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

e 9 e s
| Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

   

 
