 

Fes, eAM Os ce 7; — Vier Yee e “at ee oe 1’. «ain . a - —s 7
eer Te ky Nk hi sed =e. vy, aed, od * wn oer ye be ;vee
z “4 } e am i @ Sims j ‘ 4
i = i =

VOL. LV.

 

 

Che Dalhousie Gazette

FOUNDED 1869
ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
H. E. READ. B.A.

ISSUED WEEKLY “ ° é é
EDITOR - - . é
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Miss Juanita O'Connor, B. Comm
Vincent F. Clifford

FACULTY EDITORS

D. R. Webster, B.A.
Miss Ciara Murray

Miss Marion Hoben A. B. Morton
I. L. Barnhill W. S. Gilchrist
W. G. Dawson W. G, Sexton
E. A. Mowat
SPORTS EDITOR P. T. Hickey
PERSONALS EDITOR Miss E. I. Macneill
EXCHANGE EDITOR R. F. Ross
RESIDENCE REPORTERS
Miss Angela Magee W. B. MacOdrum
D. E. Green

STAFF ARTIST - - ~
OVERSEAS CORRESPONDENT J. A. Dunlop, B.A.

BUSINESS MANAGER ‘ J. GORDON FOGO
64 LEMARCHANT ST., Ter. S. 2596 J.

EDITORIAL

CRRA SR WA:
THE LATE LILLIAN KATHLEEN PROCTOR
(Arts Ex-1924)

‘‘Giod moves in a mysterious way.’’

News of the death of Miss Lillian Kathleen
Proctor, on Sunday, October 28th, was heard
by Dalhousians with deepest sorrow. Possessed of a cheery and unselfish disposition,
Kathleen’s many lovable traits won for her
many friends at Dalhousie, not only in the
Class of 1924, but throughout the University.
We mourn with them the passing of a life of
high. promise. To her relatives the Gazette
cxtends the sincere sympathy of all Dalhousians in their irreparable loss. :

ARS As ake SR Et

The appointment of Honorable Alexande:
K. Maclean, K.C., M.P., to the high position
of President of the Wxehequer Court of Canada is a matter of satisfaction to Nova Scotians generally and Dalhousians in particular.
A graduate in Law from Dalhousie Law
School in 1892, he has had a long, honorable
and outstanding career both as a barrister
and as a parliamentarian. The Gazette conveys Dalhousie’s congratulations to one of her
most ee fos, Mr, rene Maclean.

\

 

 
  

  

 

me a ya

FOUNDED 1869

Choy ae
ws
+. *

sie Gazette

 

 

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 7, 1923.

No.

 

mitted, the Gazette is rather keen on having
all the pros and cons of this question placed
before the student body.

The action of the D. A.A.C. in passing the
motion providing that two members of the
University Senate shall be henceforth elected
members of the D.A.A.C, Executive was, for
reasens already pointed out in these columns,
a move in the right direction. The election
to the Executive of Professors John E. Read
and George E. Wilson, both of whom take an
active interest in athletics and understand the
problems involved in their conduct augurs
well for the suecess of the new scheme.

The unsportsmanlike conduct of the captain and crew of the speedy Nova Scotia

Schooner ‘‘Bluenose’’ and the petty quibbling

on both sides in the 1923 International Fishermen’s Race was most regrettable. There was
little of our much mooted ‘‘British sporting
spirit’’ exhibited in this episode. Such a
fiasco serves to bring home most forcibly the
need for consistent and energetic leadership
by all American and Canadian universities
in the development of a national loyalty to
the ideal of good sportsmanship—'‘‘the game
for its own sake.’’

Again, having entered the race, strict observance of its rules became for the contestants a question of honor. Flouting the
authority of the regularly constituted International Race Committee was but an expression in a very minor affair of that deplorable
spirit which in a larger field breeds international friction and distrust. Whether it is in
international relationships—political, economie, or sporting—or within the small compass of inter-varsity competition, the contestant who wilfully disregards the accepted
rules because in so doing he derives real or
inaginary advantage rightly deserves the distrust and disrespect of all the others.

Surely the spirit of commercialized sport—
‘let us win at all hazards’’—has not so completely permeated the North American universities that they are no longer able to uphold the ideal of fair play and sporting honor
in the thought, and resulting action, of ‘the

people?

 

- Dalhousie Ex-Service Men's Dinner will be held
on Wednesday, Nov. 14, at 7.00 p.m. at the Green
Lantern. Informal

  

 
 

  
  

* ’
aie

 

 

WHY BE RELIGIOUS?

On Tuesday night, Oct. 30th, the students:
of the Volunteer Band enjoyed a very instructive and helpful.talk from Prof. Shaw of’
Pine Hill.

In opening his address Prof. Shaw pointed’
out that there were several misconceptions.
abroad today of the meaning of religion.
There are those who think that by religion
is meant theology, whereas theology is only a.
science of religion and bears the same relation
to it as astronomy does to the stars. Religion is not the performance of certain acts of
worship or servi These are only manifes-.
tations of religi ‘a Again religion is not
morality. In truth, religion without morality is vain, but morality without religion is.
precarious,

What then is true religion? It is life fel-.
lowship with God. If this, then, is true re-ligion is not a mere appendage—a something’
extra, which is good, but which may be done:
without. Religion is all or nothing. Francis.
Thompson in his book ‘‘The Hound of Heav-en’’ says—‘‘I fled Him down the nights and.
down the days.’’

His misconeeption was that religion restricts life; that fellowship with God means:
giving up everything else. But the Great.
Teacher points out that religion gives the:
‘Abundant Life.’’

Why be religious?

First. Because man has been made for this:
life-fellowship with the Father, God, Who:
ereated him in His own image.

Second. Because for this the world has:
been made, exists and continues to exist.

Prof. Shaw will deliver his closing address:
of the series — Why be a Missionary? — on
Tuesday night, Nov. 12th, in the Forrest.
Building. Everyone is weleome.

—T. M. C.

AN AMERICAN OPINION.

 

We quote as follows from the Boston Post:
“Somehow we cannot help thinking that the
time honored ideal of sport for sports sake, which

had been a great virtue of the English speaking:
peopie, has suffered somewhat of a decline. Our

woman tennis champion complained that she was.
beaten by the strong sunlight on one of the foreign.
courts, our greatest golf player blamed the enforced change in his clubs for his defeat and the
English supporters of Papyrus said he lost because
he did not have proper shoes.

“Yet Carpentier the Frenchman and Firpo,
from the Argentine, unversed in any traditions of

sportsmanship, acknowledged defeat aeOnEET, “id au

and without an excuse.

“Most of us expected that the Fishermen's

 
 
 

Races would develop the highest type of. sports
manship. That they did not is a sad reflection on =
both Americans and Canadians.” | etsy

 

 
 
 

 

A Timely Letter.

Highly Respected Dalhousian
Writes of Early Days.

 

‘Editor. of the Dalhousie Gazette:

Sir:—In the Graduation number of the
Gazette you confer an honour upon me to
which I have no title. The Law School was
not founded in any part under my direction.
j had been a very active and persistent advocate of college consolidation under the leadership of the late Dr. MacGregor. When it
seemed that the only result of our efforts was
tu strengthen the denominational spirit and
the determination of the various denomina
‘tional colleges to remain separated from one
another the effort was turned in a different
direction. Dr. Schurman was brought from
Acadia atid it was sought to secure Dr.
‘Weldon from Sackville. He had been while

a professor at Sackville a strong advocate of
«ollege consolidation. He was a graduate of

Yale University where he gave special atten
‘tion to International Law and wrote his

thesis on the Alabama claims. He afterwards

went to Heidelburg where he continued his
studies in that subject under Blunschli. At
Mount Allison his principal subjects were
Mathematics, Political Economy, Constitu
tional History and International Law. It
seemed obvious that if a new Faculty could

‘be added to Dalhousie, a Law school was the
enterprise which at the moment was most
promising. If it could be established there

“was no other person in any of the denominational colleges who could be more appropriately selected as Dean of the Faculty than

Dr. Weldon. The conception of such an en
| _ -terprise is due, so far as I know, very largely
4f not mainly to the late Mr. Justice Sedge
wick of the Supreme Court of Canada, then a
‘practitioner of law in Halifax. I do not
think I knew anything about the project until
I learned about it from others. I was not
-even a professor until a year after the foundation of the school though, I gladly undertook
the lectureship on Contracts, from the first
in association with Mr. Justice Thompson as
lecturer on Evidence, Mr. Sedgewick on
_  quity Jurisprudence, Mr. Justice Graham
on Marine Insurance, His Honour Judge
| Johnstone on Torts and others, whom I have
not forgotten, but whom it would be tedious
to enumerate furthe® What. I wish to em/' phasize ‘is that I had no part in the founding
of the Law School. It owed its immediate
|. -Yecognition to the eminent scholarship and
| a ‘teaching ability of Dr. Weldon. His lectures
| i on Constitutional History, International Law
~ and Conflict of Laws could not have been sur|: passed in their lucidity and frequent briloy, ancy, and as the head of the Faculty he

=~ ——e ew +


  

j F r< ¥ ry we ¥,

THE DALHOUSIE caverie

RETRIBUTION

“Our fault will surely find us out.’’

The little freshettes and freshie sophs of
Dalhousie realize that there exist words even
more terror striking than these to the verdant
heart, ‘‘The sophs will find out our fault.’’

The sophs proved themsclves past masters
of the ‘‘art of finding out the faults of newcomers’’ at the second mecting of Delta
Gamma.

Clad in the mystic raiment of the Ku Klux
Klan the sophs presented an imposing and
awful spectacle in the semi-darkness of the
front hall of Shirreff Hall. One by one the
young offenders were summoned and senteneed. One by one they took their punishment
in true Dal spirit, and proved themselves
good sports. Two victims added to the gencral umusement by esepping from their prison
by means of an accommodating window.

When the punishment was complete, the
sophs declared the hazing at an end for this
year. The verdant ones showed their approval of this measure in lusty fashion. The
ghosts then performed a very fantastic dance
which highly amused the audience, and after
a Delta Gamma translation of Mr. Gallagher
end Mr. Shean ,the evening ended in the manner in which every self-respecting college
meeting should terminate—dancing.

—J. O’'C.

SEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE REE EERE EEE EEE E EERE EEE EEE HEE E SEER E HERR ECHO HEH

FOERSTER EEE EERE EHH EEE EE EH HER EE SESE HEREE EERE 880 0466S HO Ce ee Oe eee OOOO Cee

BUILD UP FIRMLY

In the life-cycle of an individual are found many
distinct phases. A continual state of first advancement followed by a. relaxed period of absorption,
commonly called “getting wind;” or a condition of
repression, following wpon some failure. Even so
is it in the history of a nation, an institution, in
fact to be found in any unit which exists, living
or inanimate.

Let us take the first cycle of man. It is th
—rapid, active multicipation of physical and

mental powers, fitting him or herself for participatid in the game of life. When is this stage term
‘inated? We can safely answer—never.

In the beginning we are looked after, later we

have that onus laid wpon our own shouklers. Some —

of us are fortunate enough to come to college for
further learning. Here is where we must stand on
our own feet and show what we are made of. Here

is where our thoughts and actions aré moulded for |

our future gui e.
Do we realize the fact that a large amount of
our life’s policies are being laid down now? Many

do and their mental foundation is being built on a .

firm basis towards an end which only means success. Some are not re aware of what possibilities
mey accrue from a solid, sane development. They
are the students who leave all studying for the end
of. the session, and then cram, Little is gained
thus in the long run. It ‘may help one through
examinations, but how much will be. remembered

rs later ie 4 nap tye greta a slow ae

owledge, bit t e true
leading on to sieabat + Eas, will make a if a life
worth — Give it

puany" ® Oct. tr

 

ie tn 8

ie ae .

aaa Fda | itso

 

Rs Cyr a Soi bee ee eT eee paaen ee a

 

JENSEN & MILLS CO. LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD:
119 YOUNG ST.

THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES

 

Drygoods, Millinery, Ready-toWear and Ladies Tailoring

The 2 Scotts Ltd.

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Headquarters for Dal. Boys

A splendid stock of furnishings of all
kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats and
Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suitcases and Bags.

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

DON’T FORGET WE’RE ON THE
CORNER

 

DALHOUSIE

Call on us for your light
Lunches, Private Parties. and
Dances

THISTLE CAFE

Phone $4745 Opp. Imperial Theatre
BARRINGTON ST.

FN 7

| ——— DISPENSING ——

   
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 

Bi ik Gi lt aN ST

 

 

FRESHIES ADOPT MISS MCCURDY

Twenty Pretty Pictures Taken.

 

A meeting of Class ’27 was held on Thursday, Nov. Ist.

Reports were read by chairmen of the varjous committees. The Social Committee have
a very attractive programme drawn up for
the year. The first event is to be a walking
party which will be held on Wednesday the
14th of this month. The class constitution
was read by the chairman of that committee
andthe amount of class fees fixed. The class
pin committee has visited Birks and will
soon have samples of the different designs to
submit to the class.

The first of the individual pictures for the
large class picture were taken on Monday,
Noy. 5th, when about twenty girls from
Shirreff Hall visited Mr. Climo,

Miss Margaret McCurdy, B. Se., ’28, who
is now studying for a Master’s degree, was

elected an honorary member of Class ’27.
—J, M. M.

 

Meds Win Battle Against the Law.

‘'M.D.C.M.”’ is the thing for me,
To h— with the lawyers’ L.L.B.
We gained the football victory,
We’re Meds from Dalhousie.
Well, she was some game!

Serim there was and plenty of it. All
hands were around the pigskin like flies
around a sugar-bowl. Once in the last half
Paul Barry was the only man away from the
riot. . . . And there was pathos, too, for
as in all major games, ‘“‘the paths of glory
lead but’’ through the gore. Dave Johnson,
late captain of the Pictou Academy team,
sustained injuries to his second digit which
he is still nursing. However, little things
like that are all in the day’s work to a man
who goes over the line for a touch. The
other hero for Medicine was Doull. Bad
angles prevented a convert in either case.

 

~The sole touch for Law was made by Bill

Gunn. Henry Borden artistically attempted
10 convert but failed, and the whistle went

for time before Law had a chance to pull up »

for a draw.

Seore: Medicine 6, Law 3.

’ Lectures in Physiology are now being held
in the new Medical Science Building. Class
97 had the honor of taking the first lecture
in the new, building.

Murray Britton is on deck again after a
severe contusion of the nasal bone. |

It is noted with pleasure that Dr. Fraser

asi’ eonidigton “ very much improved.
=—W, 8. G.

  
  

dren erence PTH” eT

since his

oa oo a aye ewe ’

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

—_—- =

Distinguished Dalhousian

 

 

 

Dental spirit is running high these days.
With a win over Aris. as a start in the Interfaculty football league and with the largest
number of points of any individual faculty in
the Track meet at Studley is it any wonder
the ‘‘Dents’’ have their chests stuck out?
‘‘Ducky’’ Fraser is feeling so good that he
has taken to smoking cigars on every public
occasion. Several of the boys have tried in
vain to identify the brand and at present the
concensus of opinion hovers between ‘‘Peg
tops’’ and ‘‘Fleur de Cabbage”’.

Vie Turnbull, Dentistry’s energetic Football manager had the misfortune to sprain
his ankle in the game with Arts, which will
unfortunately put him out of the half line
for the rest of the season, His presence on
the field will be sorely missed, but his
enthusiam on the side lines will partly eompensate for this.

Staff artist Green, another member of the
Dental Society, has been suffering lately with
an infected finger. A few of the boys have
been unkind enough to suggest that his
frequent visits to the Hospital are not all

due to his finger. How about it Earl?
—X-Ray.

 

HAR VARD GRADUATES ELECT JUSTICE
OF SUPREME COURT

 

Edward T Sanford of Tennessee, Justice of
holepreee Oorit of the United States, has been

elected to the presidency . the Harvard Alumni

on. e has ha ar career
et ine Harvard and the Unt

was a
Of dar Raserelt na ister © United. Btates
judj oat lee Peon,
0 ae ee

  

e ra
is

% - ,
‘
* : ' nn: OS
: 5 i
.* i A 7
7. b a an a
_- . a L

“a se oe

hs — hee

hoy i

i
é
a

to his pres

 

THE LAWYER'S BRIEF.

James Hackett, Law ’23 who has opened
his own office in North Sydney, was a recent
visitor in Halifax.

Colin MelIsaac of the ’23 Class is practising”
in his chosen profession in his home town
of Antigonish. :

Claude Richardson, Law ’23, made a . flying”
visit to New Glasgow last week. Claude has:
opened an office at Sydney.

_F. H. Hamilton, Law ’23, was in Halifax:
last week making preparations to move his:
family to Sydney, C. B. where he has:
opened an office.

Lionel. Cross of the ’23 Class has returned’
to his home in the British West Indies where:
he will practise.

John R. MacDonald, Law ’23 is visiting in:
Halifax at present.

The second meeting of the Law Society’
was held on the Ist inst. with the President,.
A. M. Matheson in the chair.

The question of the Law Dance was’
decided. After considerable discussion it.
was decided to hold the dance if possible:
some time during the present month, and a
committee consisting of Messrs. Colquhoun,
Fogo, Blanchard, Snodgrass and Ross to:
make necessary arrangements for same.

The Society decided to hold the ‘‘ Mock Par-:
liament’’ as in former years and the Presi-:
dent was empowered to appoint a committee:
to make the necessary preparations. Dr, D..
A. MacRae was nominated to act as Gov-:
ernor-General, and in the event of his being’
unable to act Prof. Read is to be invited to:
accept another term of office. Prof. Smith.
was selected as Speaker.

Fred Bissett of the First Year was appointed manager of the Law basketball team..

On motion the mecting adjourned.

—I. L. B.

 

Dalhousie Has Modern Apollo.

 

Dalhousians were interested “to see the:
photograph of Roy B. Woodhill, in the latest
number of Physical Culture Magazine. The:
words accompanying the photograph are as
follows: ‘‘How can we help thinking of
Wells’ ‘‘Men Like Gods’’ as we look at this:
superb specimen of manhood—Roy B. Wood-.
hill, a star student and athlete at Dalhousie:
University, Halifax, Noya Scotia? Here is a.
combination of high intelligence and bodily’
power and beauty. In the estimation of Dr..
John Cameron, Professor of Anatomy at |
Dalhousie, the body of this youth presents:
physical perfection.’’ ;

 

DALHOUSIE 1897 AND 1923.
is many Dalhousie friends are delighted’ ui
. Maxwell (Max) MacOdrum, B, A. ia

  
  

= “
> Save
i ry

+
'
¥ »!
o By sepeties ie educa

  

‘the function was due to take place. A dollar’s
 

eA
em

ae

Pe

Ma
.
4

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

In Which Mr. Joseph McDucken Law Scores

 

In the good old days Mr. Horatio Sempronius Medd would have called out Mr.
Josephus .McDucken Law, and with broad
Sword or pistol done his level best to terminate the existence of the obnoxiously grandliloquent Law. Mr.. Josephus MeDucken
Juaw, on the other hand, had about as much

use for Mr. Medd as a hen has for a tooth- 
brush, and was no less murderously inclined
lowards the dandified Horatio. Two dominant
feelings dwelt in the breasts of these worthics:
the hatred of each for the other was equalled
‘In intensity only by the deep devotion which
‘they both owned for Miss Anna Mary Dent,
who had kindled the fire of love on the altars
of their hearts. To H. S. Medd she was the
**Divine Afflatus;’’ to J. MeD. Law, she was
‘the ‘‘Inspiration.’’ But for the laws against
dduelling, one or the other would have been
gathered to his fathers, the survivor entering

‘upon an unrivalled field. Blood and thunder |

‘ways of settling such affairs being barred in
‘these degenerate days, other means had to be
‘taken to clear an unwanted rival from r'‘ie
path.

Both gentlemen were musically taleuted—
‘as. their long-suffering neighbours could
‘testify. Mr. Medd could bring a gouty old
‘gentleman to the jig, with the piano, and Mr.
Law had often been known to draw tears
‘from an old maid’s eyes by the mellow notes
of his twenty-dollar Strad.

An at home was to be held at the home of
‘the Dents, and a week’s notice was served on
‘the ‘‘Several selected.’’ Among the invitees
‘were Mr, Law and Mr. Medd.

Now, in such households there is sired a.

‘little brother who is amenable to the per‘suasive influences of a dollar bill. Him the
‘wily Josephus captured the evening before

‘worth of questions was answered by the little
Dent, and Mr. Law learned, among other
‘things, that Mr. Medd would be presiding at
‘the piano at 10.30 the following evening.
‘Thereupon the cunning Law jollied the
-dollar-loving little Dent a bit, and by appeal_ ‘ing to his eupidity and keen sense of humor

‘induced him to become the second party in a

‘conspiracy for the undoing of Mr. Medd.
Long was the conference and oft-repeated
‘where the instructions before the worthy
Josephus took his departure, after making a
- very deep dent in his pocket to the benefit of
the little Dent.

Things were progressing in fine shape. Be
- whiskied host and benign hostess beamed

upon everyone alike. No doubt about it, it

: a distinguished gathering. A bevy of

BY AF ae a ae one
Pte f y's raed

et |
==

 

Anna Mary and surely, ah! surely, a responsive echo of love would be awakened.

It was well known that, like this revered
master, Signor Ginkinelli, Horatio always
affected a cushion on his piano stvol; thus no
one commented on the gorgeous concern that
had already been slipped into place by some
unnoticed hand and now lay awaiting the
honour of bearing Horatio’s gencrous weight.

H. Sempronius Medd parted the tails of
his coat and did a society droop, settled himself firmly, and spun round to the job.

He first improvised softly and dreamily to
the adorable Anna Mary, then filled the room
with crashing chords. This done he glided
swiftly into the mazes of one of Schubert’s
Arias. It was a creditable performance, and
it came to a creditable end.

Cries of ‘‘encore’’ rang through the room
and rounds of applause came from the truly
polite, but none-too-critical, audience that
would have been equally and jazzily delighted
had the performer assured them that he had
‘No Bee-nanas To-day.’’

The smiling Horatio rose to bow his thanks.
He rose, and the gorgeous cushion rose with
him. Too flustered by suecess to notice anything unusual, be bowed jerkily, and the
aeroplane attachment at his rear bobbed in
unison. With much dignity he moved towards his music bag, and as he walked; the
affectionate particle in the south end went
through a one-two, up and down motion.

lt was the remarkable ichange that came
over his audience that brought Horatio to a
halt. Stifled bursts of laughter were proceeding from all quarters ; girls were giggling
and gentlemen grinning—no longer applauding, while the startled hostess fixed a baleful
eye on Mri Medd’a unmentionables. The

king finger of a convulsed guest first made
him alive to the unhappy situation.

Horatio swung round like a dog pursuing
its tail, grabbed the pillowy projection ‘and
essayed a tentative pull. But that cushion
was there to stay, firmly held in place by the
stickiest of sticky materials, Surely, quoted
a wag in the crowd, “It sticketh closer than
a brother,’’

A longer and stronger pull merely revealed
an extensive area of his capacious pants.
Vigorously but ineffectually did he tug that
night, but it availed nothing in the clearing
of an encumbered b
puritanical ladies, feeling scandalised, retired

primily from the scene. In a spirit of
desperation the excited Horatio seized the

 

 

backyard. A couple of.

 

Webster’s Colon

The ‘special literary book prizes for the
month of October have been awarded. The

   

prize for the best poem goes to Miss Hope E.:

Hamilton; that for the best prose to W- B.
MeOdrum.

The committee spent considerable time discussing the various contributions, and reached the decision with difficulty. They were at
a loss whether to consider the Marlowe parody as prose or poetry. It was finally decided to award a special prize at the end of
the year for the best drama submitted during
the entire year.

The Gazette staff are gratified at the quality of the work submitted. It is no small matter of satisfaction and pleasure to the editors
that the student body generally are taking so
much interest in the Gazette.
tions while not overwhelmingly numerous are
on the whole well prepared.’

We congratulate the winners of the Oct.
ber prizes.

“GOD'S MAN.

Is he who climbs the highest stair
Of life more noble than the man
Who, pausing while another ran
More slowly, kept him from despair?

I take it that the man who lifts

His fellow man and fears his God,
(Fears through His love, not for His rod,)
And saves his brother-when he drifts,

Is nobler ‘in the mind of Him
Who, though a God, became a man,
Than he who in the vanguard ran
Amid the plaudits and the din

\.
Of victory. And he who sings
Of joy and gladness—duty bound, —
Unbounded else,—can stand his ground
With those about the thrones of kings, —
7 —C,

 

_ ST. BRIGID.

This was the maiden whom the Lord oe

Joy and the happiness of love

Like virgin lilies at the Bastertide a

She kept the treasure of her dream-child
stilled.

etenting cushion with both hands and. gere ‘Wh pilgrim 2

"ep Som

» wal tee Hoa te:
Ma biis aoe a ha tat me . “at ba ' Pa
Ys

A
if ¢ fa i;
in wa

=  t as | & : fy ag
“ Vy *

io ; 2
rr F 1 "
an k
4 e
— ie a Ry <¢ oat
Mb ey At
;

eee,
ee ae i ae et He BL =n)

The eontribu- |

it messe te arr A
’ . : ae +

 

Pine Hill Post

Well, Well, Heaven and Hell—

At last the Pine Hill Gang’s all here.
Amidst showers of weleome Bob Scott arrived
early in the week. Bill Patterson sauntered

 

» in one morning with a pair of bedroom

- “o? 2 é %
* i ‘ “a
ee ad

ae A so: Ni
‘ =
+

ns a

Li rN

ct ee

? , = ab
ake

slippers as his footwear. Herman Campbell,
begrimed with the dust of the West, and with
the call of Dartmouth still strong in his
ears, Frank Archibald of the irresistable
smile and the curly locks, and Eddy Murray
who has just conducted a highly successful
evangelistic campaign also turned up on time.
T. R. Goudge, who was caught in an ice-floe
of Labrador and D. M. Grant who was held
back by the lure of a few shekels, brought up
the rear of the parade.

Amidst the din of racuous political clamor,
the Frame-Clouston administration went
down to defeat. Their police reserves were
entirely inadequate to cope with the violence
on the evening election and as a result there
was chaos. The only voter who kept his
head was that worthy denizen of Room 15,
Frank McLean, He like a Wise Man of
Gotham, sallied abroad carring his bed on his
back. Following is the new executive:

Pope — Herman Campbell; Cardinal—
Harold Baird; Bishop—Bob Scott; Scribe—
Frank Archibald.

Cape Breton led by the redoubtable ‘‘J. D.
N.’’ and his lieutenants M. A. McMillan and
Danny McCuish, swept the Annex. Gordon
Dawson and Sid Gilchrist are the Old Building Deacons.

Records are made with difficulty and are
not often easily broken, but Myron Meikle’s
feat of putting away 49 glasses of punch at
the Freshy-Soph is unsurpassable.

Harry Langwith maintains his reputation
as Pine Hill’s top-notch caterer. Room 20,
when the pangs of the body begin to torture,
is an oasis, to quote Art Youill, ‘‘The
shadow of a great rock in a weary land.

Many from Pine Hill appreciated the Rev.
J. S. Bonnell when he preached at St. John’s

on Sunday, but it was the real old-time Sid

ai Monday morning eluded Mrs. Marsters,

and clad in ‘‘Joe’’ Pringle’s sweater, made

breakfast at 8.15.

The power of the press is beyond all computation. Duncan Me

error of his ways an taken to the straight and
narrow path,

Hallowe’en is Hallowe’en, but the boys

 

| wore a little perturbed when on the eve of.
\ maa git ee gees a Oe

- Bert

* ma pe Ti

KY etlb a yy md > ¥
a a or been nan ‘Bingo?
OW.

gC: smal yea

Na = = a

=

a

4 1 Pe
Paley eg ae
ys ok We Woe are 6 rhage ee
y es a i +
i = {

. i. :
rate vy i
= aes

aks
od Ro

Pi i Fe

eMillan has seen the

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

—D. E. G.

DISCOVERED!!

 

FRESHIE-SOPH DANCE
SUCCESSFUL THOUGH FORMAL

The annual Freshie-Soph Dance was held
in the gymnasium on Wednesday the thirtyfirst of October.

Neither rain nor fear of hobgoblins had
any influence in’ keeping the revellers from
wandering out on such a night, and the
gymnasium was filled to capacity.

In spite of the fact that the dance was
formal, a general air of informality prevailed. The introduction committee did their
work well and it may have been because ¢this that so many enthusiastic comments were
afterwards heard. |

The affair was, graced by the presence of
Mrs. Murray Maeneill and Miss Eliphil
Nichols, who acted as Chaperones.

Attractive decorations made the gymnasium look exceptionally well; the color of
Dalhousie suggested also ‘ All Hallow’ s Eve’
—A fortunate coincidence. ?

Jarvis McCurdy, President of the Sophomores gave the official welcome to Class ’27
to which the Freshman President, Lawrence
McElmon responded. This was an announcement of the cessation of hostilities
betwen the two classes and the beginning of
their friendly relations. From now on the
war hatchet will remain buried. —
‘‘Ap REIN.’’

2. Why does that twinkle come in Frank
Archibald’s eyes when he tells of ‘‘Cupids in
the brine?”’ .

3. Would not the ‘‘Porter of Bagdad’’

 

his” hair be title for Grant.
oe Kenny

“A
o jae ~- “yes 3 |
‘ wh . ors a
A ‘ e Se eh
i a7 S os 4
é “Se Se n ,
a >
De a

Fi ; 5 or : a hid)
a ry maT at at a Ph + wt gala a
A aS = . wn Pe 7 ve oy
ie " ; re, a '
' , ii s =a = :

 

‘Heard From Afar

As the young Rockefeller swishes up to
Studley in his fliver, he might remember that
college drives are meant for pedestrians
too and are not the place to see if
‘‘she’ll do sixty.’’ The authorities of the
University of Arizona have delved into the
matter of speeding on the campus and have
found that faculty members are often the
chief offenders in this regard. Fact!

 

 

“HELLO THERE!’’

 

A “‘Hello Day’’ has been instituted in
several of the large American Universities by
the ‘Y. M.’ and ‘Y. W.’ On this day every
loyal collegian is to greet every other one with
a cheerful smile and ‘‘Hello.’’ This seems
like a good idea to welcome the newcomers and to promote real fellowship.

 

OH, GIRLS, HERE’S SOMETHING

 

Women of a certain western university
have organized a ‘‘Trousseau Club’’ and it
is said to be a great success. The announcement of her formal engagement makes any
woman eligible. The young co-ed bride-to-be
is then able to discuss ‘‘him.’’ and other
momentous subjects with others in the sameer-fix, and the results are marvellous. ‘The
Club already has a large ‘‘waiting list,’’ it
is understood. In self defence the fiances
are also forming an organization.

 

THAT BAD REPORTER!

 

A very daring feat was brought to light
the other (day at McGill, when it became
known that a reporter from the ‘‘MecGill
Daily’’ had in disguise invaded the sacred
precivets of the R. V. C. in order to get the

‘real facts about the freshettes initiation. By
means of a system of mirrors he was able to.

view the whole ceremony from a dark storeroom and so interested did he become that he
did not notice the door closing behind him

and the snap of the lock. It was only aftter _

manifold hazards and trials that he escaped
by running down the fire-escape pursued by
a mob of vengeful women.

POETRY, FICTION, Ete.

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
| Also School and College Text

mn ie

 

 
      
SL 
—_ — eee

@ THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Studley Gym Notes.

All candidates for the first and second Varsity basketball teams are requested to attend
the Tuesday and Thursday practices at 12
0 “clock.

The volley ball league is away to a good
start with teams from the Studley Professors,
the Forrest Building Professors, Second
Year Medicine, and Third Year Medicine.
As the games start this Friday please have
all entries in to Dr. Gym before then.

Faculty representatives will please see Dr.
Gym at once about the Interfaculty basketball league. Two series are to be played this
year.

Faculty Gym classes with the exception of
Juaw, Dentistry and Pharmacy got under way
last week. These three have been allotted
hours and are ready for an immediate start.

 

IN WHICH MR. J. MaeD. SCORES

(Continued)

Not daring to move hand or foot, he stared
around, wild-eyed and dishevelled.

Miss Anna Mary Dent and the gentler ones,
by now had fled the scene of action. The
gentlemen of the party held themselves aloof.
With commendable courage the elder hostess
had remained. She now advanced to the
rescue.

‘“Won’t you sit down Mr. Medd?’ ghe
oot mildly. Poor Horatio’s mind was in a
whirl,

‘‘I—I am afraid I—will have to whien this
comes off ‘‘he answered, his voice ending in
a squeaky note of distress,

“1 do not understand you”? replied the
lady frigidly, ‘‘surely you will take a seat,
Mr. Medd.”’

‘Prefer to remain standing, I assure you;
please, please go away, Mrs. Dent.

Committing the matter to her husband’s
care with a nod, the hostess left the room
somewhat hurriedly, her head held high.

Left to handle the .situation in his own
fashion, Mr. Dent fetched an overeoat, and

with divers expressions of regret and courto
ous apologies assisted Mr. Medd into it and

1 fet him out through a side door.

 

In such wise did Josephus McDuceken Law

_ roll his rival in the dust of shame and defeat.

—Simplicitas.

aillieentieniieameenens aaa

cabinet ministers,”’

   

  
 

Correspondence

(The Gazette accepts no responsibility
for views expressed in this column.
Correspondents are requested not to
exceed three hundred words.)

 

A DALHOUSIE UNION SOCIETY?

Editor Dalhousie Gazette,

SIK:—Since the visit of the Oxford debaters there have been many suggestions as to
the advisability of changing our system of
debating.

It is argued that the debatting societies in
our universities are exclusive affairs where
only a limited number of students can take
part—possibly a dozen or so in the run of a
year. The best of these speakers are elected
!o the teams and much time and work is
necessary before any decent showing can be
made.

There are many students at Dal who are
well read and informed in many lines and
many who do a great deal of original thinking who shy at our debates, but would be in
their element in such an institution as the
Oxford Union Society, Apart from the
S.C. A. study groups, the Law Sehool,s
Mock Parliament is practically the only
student organization at Dal which gives
scope to such students.

Now, the idea that has been broached igs
this, to combine Sodales and the Mock Parliament and produce the Dalhousie Union
Society (or some such name.) Of course the
Mock Parliament is the ‘‘child’’ of the Law
School, but it would undoubtedly be sacrificed in the interests of the college as a whole.
I said ‘‘sacrificed’’, but the word ill-applies
for very probably the Law School would
give a copious supply of premiers and cabinet ministers to such a parliament. In his
article in your issue of Oct. 17 Prof. John
Read writes: ‘There is no other debating
society in the world that has had such a
marked influence on the political life of the
country which it serves as the Oxford Union.
Curiously enough, the closest approach which
can be found is in the record of the Dal Mock
Parliament. The Mock Parliament in its
comparatively short history has trained one
Dominion premier, at least four Provincial
premiers and three opposition leaders in provincial polities, and also a large number of

 
 

Tt has been said that, lawyers are ‘hog.

     

Harvard Abandons Old —
- Soft Brown Felt Hat

 

The crown of Harvard tradition has been
broken. The famous old soft hat, threadbare and holey, that marked a Cantabrigians:
collegian everywhere, with its little strip of

~ red ribbon, has been relegated to the ash can: —
And its place has come the pearl grey soft.

felt, with a frail end of crimson silk tucked in.
the bow of the band.

In passing years the soft brown felt:
weathered the storm of stylists who pronounced. the green fedora, the brown derby,
the colored cap, and, to keep up with the
futurists and the cubist artists, the changing
purple as the thing. The collegian still stuck:
to the battered brown soft felt. But at the
college game the other day the cheering
stands of 2000 collegians were topped off with.
an equal number of pearl grays. That’s.
what President Lowell, considered Boston’s:
best dressed man, has been wearing all the
time. So the way to tell a Harvard student
now is by the soft pearl gray hat with the
little red ribbon.

 

Hubby :—Sorry, darling, but can’t take
you to the beach tonight.

Carrie :—Really, you remind me of the tide.

Hubby :—How is that; because I wait for
no man?

Carrie:—No: you have a long green roll
and yet you are always low when I want to go
swimming.

    
 

Finest Materials, Lining and
Trimmings with best workmanships at reasonable prices.

——_—_———

Clayton & Sons
Tailors & Clothiers

   
  

    
     

   

: : P .
Ls Poe ee wie es) m. re. i i =
» ‘~ ca ad | ay oa eer ~ , 7 5 — .
ete Ee N a r 7 Ste ot 4

  

Dalhousie Defeats
Tech. 8-0 ,

Dalhousie’s Intercollegiate football team
defeated the Nova Scotia Tech by a score of
8—0 in its second game in this league.

The contest was played last Wednesday
afternoon, on the College Campus, in a sea
of mud, amidst pelting rain. Despite the
disadvantages of a slippery ball, a hard
fought contest was produced, and the Tech
men proved themselves sturdy players. Dalhousie had the advantage during the first
period, and the ball was kept in the Engineers' territory. After a run by the half line,
the ball was passed to Maedonald who crossed
the line for the first try of the game. It was
not converted.

Right from the beginning of the second
period Tech began to force Dalhousie and the

Tigers were compelled to back up towards
their own line. The Engineers made several
attempt to get a try, and managed on several
oceasions to reach the border line, where Dal
touched for safety. Fraser played a great
game here and saved the Tigers more than
onee. Morrison almost dropped a kick over
the bar for Tech.

Towards the end of the period Dalhousie
forced Tech into their own territory, and endeavoured to register another score by half
line runs. After one of these runs Langwith
received a pass and sprinting across the field
went over the line near the corner flag. Instead of making the touch here, he continued on and made the try directly behind
the posts. The Tech men rushed Fraser’s
kick too soon and he was allowed ‘another.
This kick converted the try and made the
final score 8—0O just as the whistle blew for
the end of the game. Morrison was the best
of the Tech players. Mr. Finch refereed in
a satisfactory manner.

The line up :— ee
Dalhousie — Forwards, McLean, Logan,
Sutherland, MeCurdy, Baird, Tupper, Sutherland; halves, Macdonald, Langwith,
McInnis, Miller; Quarters, Hewat, MeQuarrie, Dobson; Fullback, Fraser. —
_ Teeh—Forwards, Lowe, Brownell, J. Morrison, Reid, Sutherland, Sterns, Macdonald ;
Halves, Schurman, Cassidy, Crease, Hewson ;

 

 

 
  

FS ee a ee er a Cl a Pe
¢ - 2% | ” . a .

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

HERE ANwv THERE.

Wanderers have arranged to bring the
Mount Allison University foot ball team to
Halifax on November.10. The Mounties are
going strong this season and are assured of a
big welcome in Halifax.

 

 

The athletic association of the University
of New Brunswick has received a propositio:
from Robert Reid, of Boston, that the University of New Brunswick hockey team go on
a tour during the Christmas vacation; as the
team of Mount Allison University did last
winter. The proposal is that the team leave
December 21 and play Bathurst, N. B., Sherbrooke, Que., Montreal, Berlin, N. H., Boston,
West Point, N. Y., and New York City.

 

Sydney Academy and Colchester Academy
of Truro will meet at Antigonish tomorrow.
The Cape Bretoners will be accompanied by
a squad of rooters. koe

 

John McCarthy, one of the coaches of the
Wanderers Club, was appointed referee of the
U. N. B.-Mount A. game.

 

The Dalhousie City League Rugby team
will leave on Friday for Charlottetown where
arrangements have been made for two games.
On Saturday the Tigers will meet St. Dunstan’s College, and on Monday they will battle with the Abbies.

The Wanderers have upheld the reputation
of the Maritimes by winning a great victory
at Montreal where they defeated the Montreal English Rugby Club by a score of 16—3
last Saturday. We congratulate them.

New Glasgow, Oct. 31—The High School
Rugby Championship of Pictou county is
still undetermined. Pictou Academy and
New Glasgow High battling this afternoon to
a scoreless draw. |

 

Dalhousie to play St. F. X. for Eastern
championship. Pk
THE HOME OF

ATHLETIC GOODS

ocitdlllcceneeetllinienteatinetalicemetnnemtanmimemmenttineny titanate nemtnenencnteentiiieatatiet tetieeesaemie ane aie ee tn heen

 
  
  

 
  
  

CHAMPION TIGERS TO PLAY ON “THE ISLAND”

INTERFACULTY FOOTBALL STANDING.

 

i odie chy id bead awe 2 2 0
OP gre Sagar ay ae eer eee 2 l l
RPORTETT shige cs veebege’s 2 l 1
MRM e oot a: gin tira te eee Ste 2 0 2

MEDICALS 6—DENTS 0.

Dentistry, favorites for the Inter-faculty
championship were humbled by the Meds to
the tune of 6—0O in last Thursday’s game.
The first period play was about evenly divided, and neither team was able to seore. In
the second half the Meds worked better and
held the ball in Dents’ territory, where two
trys were made in the last five minutes,
Douell scored the first after a forty-five yard
run. Wood got the second one after intercepting a pass on the twenty-five yard line.
Don McInnes refereed.

LAW 6, ARTS 0.

Law showed a reversal of form on Saturday when they defeated Arts by two trys in
the Interfaculty league game. Law had a
hard time getting a team together and went
on the field with thirteen men and Roe
McKenna, who gave his moral support to the
team. This bucked them up and enabled
them to score two trys. Wickwire scored the
first one, and McKinnon the other. Gushue
played well for Law while Piercey was strong
in the Arts backfield.

COMMERCIAL CLUB RENEWS
SCHOLARSHIP.

At the Halifax Commercial Club luncheon
last Thursday the Faculty of King’s College
and the new Dalhousie Professors were
guests, The entertainment was in honor of
the 135th anniversity of the founding of
King’s. Dr. Howard Murray and Professor
MacIntosh represented .Dalhousie University.

Notice of motion was given that $200. will
be voted again this year as the Commercial
Club Scholarship for the Dalhousie
Commerce Department. |

: Eiced Six to Sixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire for
greater athletic accomplishment are the

%

 

oo ———

 
  
    
 

  

eae Saga Serr | Football and Track Outfits.
B. 18, MT. ALLISON 3. eae,’ Here you will find men of

| __ your own age and interest

rsity of New Brunswick swamped Mt. | —to serve you with things you

_ ging’’ publie offices, but such an organization
as is now proposed would go a long way to- ateette ae ham, 4 boys who pick
ward climinating this ‘‘evil(?)’’ (in Nova See ek I >
Scotiaatanyrate) = = | ERR. Saree ‘.
are, of eae : ' , ae y det a % n . ters qe ai ? shi "y + en ss " Re r ses, ce. Pe | take

|
LIMITED es Spalding’s
453-457 BARRINGTON STREET amous Goods.

BAGGAGE

| Colwell Brothers

'
‘

 

.
+
\>

HATS

SE
Se

4
4 phim | os F ee - »
. " oti) 5 e tans, coed c ~
. A — So ee Pore . Lt ‘ S ¢ f = < 7 Pe = uy B ’ rs s 1
os nd iE r ar V5 ra 7 er ee! . - a iret Aa Real) | ri “a Aaa — ¥ i. ~o f 2 bi 3. ‘ : ites a" ¢ a. -” :
‘ae in ae , ra { : . ii 7 . ae, o * “ ’ Pn - oh - “a vem oF gh Et (ii ui i, Ji eg ie c ol _*
: .s me of - \ ' tal ~ga9 al ot es > MEE =. 2 : as mo: ’ Ce ; : atte=r ‘inh
n iat . ft - y 4 ¢ adi . : Ye =e i re < ~ 4 t. ? i i
, Fi P ;

‘ - A : yi se . a +. » iy i -’ 7 7 a
; i z ‘ ’ in 4 im ut ay 4 _ i ‘ :
7 . : , ‘ ’ : { : oa ‘ast I > ' f Fe " . ; , . Ln : - ‘ oie ae > > : r
Pye pS Lor : 5 5 wf ot) = vos 6 “as q » - v Qe i : hee of a = parol 2 ost ee : oe | =k * ‘
I = * cal Z 5 “) 4 a has A " Aap @ ’ i i. , ; : os * t ~ | ~ ' ; F hh 2% roRy - We i a 7 4 tha ies ly, Me ‘ . 7 ;- = 3 ; |
i és ‘ : 4 — e a) F ‘ 7 “ . 7 ‘ a ’ 4 F i i ~ ‘ 7 ' ae & 7 r cers ; . ae 5 . aa , “T 4 ” I ; ra . :
‘ aA ary 4 Z ' = = =, ‘4 J ier” ™~) & 3 ai : ‘ ? a 7 r, = a i" * a: tid s * a re, 4 r pe a — a a' - r F 1 eo 7 » 7 /
7 . ; & \ | ‘ wht 4 " . Met V rie has eee yal ot aoe Pt ey, » a } te oe re lt * = , Vee, iat j a > i *' ol an tee eR M pF ores i , a ‘ MS : , ; .
os enue el en ee a ie * ~ 7 | cere, oes Se ee af ied! bee eee ci Ag f=; fs is Pg PA tee (=) i lt Pg” j ee a aie! - ; 4 ky Phe eel) ai : ¥ j ‘a = * : :
: : ' ios >. _ . n po ' = esl ; i > fi , ve 14 =! r x ¥ * . =f fi 2 ‘ =~ t \ Pa a 4 ‘ a t ; 4 * * : ¥ ay : F an hd s ae 4 7, 1 rie } + <2 t ) ~ :
eT > see - * t , as =a -— ‘i . +.“ * ’ 1 j at a ‘ we - : +. ome 99 iow lPr em r il %~ | eS ra ' ~~ t Vay a ‘ 1 ‘ q { |
= ; 4 , c 5 | ah ' ig cota + eee " —— ee. ie et i san,” as 3 i eek law ‘ . ii y 1 5 4 ion Pe 3 S . are oh as A ‘ . a ey : i i 7 Fe ‘ j 4 ‘< ba ea ; o, ” Dati vs bet 7 ’ ¥ * a. MA aie |i. yk 7 i 7 b Tas eur SS. raat a s A Pip ~ pee - i 7 4 . i i * » =? i. on- s , O i
| i 3 ’ . 7 ‘ = = ‘ sy uy a J 5 es & a t A ae. 9 =4 . =. ;
4 mia af : , ae 9 P : TF. nF . 4 7 ‘ ' i : f - » . A = : =
: 7 ' i *
ES “ ; ; ‘ ‘ _* wh
PA be = a ws! g = . 7
. 4 - V ese a ~ 4 +
JEUs <4 =F .
7 q Y
' Ay q % Bae. on et ;
? N - ri . = +
. : ie AN i. . ’ >
* vite ro | Vs!
»* I

Te. eo « eh: )
ry . ; ye ieee
Ja es — . / we ,
f ot > ‘
e A a
r ee ort ; 4 = ener a
im! ede ia fae. Na in’ ce Leak et eh
mT rey te b . , Dean tes in ms . ' aie a | » : .
he AVe yivy° 5 BRARRI  _ 7o awe aay i ‘ ji , a
b.e PR oa | ree : avs | :
r set . ¢ ¢ 7 bisa f ‘ =| ee * t. a
» ae oie i es . at a fi iG? : Fines ro +e : . ‘ - wi he a; c a
2 aC I T By oy are” | erg oe a Vee beso ta a. ae Pe, ey eee, * 5 a att, NI es 2 a, hy week % it ‘y: fae ti
; 7h 7 ae eS ek ee ee : . eee
a : 1 ha yo an rT oF ahi ay Fd). m re
tree Sa RATE Ray ep ate |
; . fi ia ri . ‘Sal " hie, | A a

4 * ee” me #; : . > - z / b
i 2 a eel ¥ + Gaerne s Prt As < ¢ : si iy tes -D e
is t ele ae an oe . Chet |
and ite He by fala it gee DN ts rest See r ao is4
4 ’ , f oe 1 A Saree, : "|
yw = a : . -s - IV - Ai Ri F . ‘A 9 a r ’ ey et ; i ‘.
wT ¢ : > et oe . . ‘ \ vu ee S a ; g r ti
Pm" Pes a ae a) ot ody a Neal . 2 af: ee see Me el fh ; 1a aye TI -.
U | f b % ‘ / 5 “1 Ms i ie a4 y “ é r np f - 7’ Ps J
* & ; S c8 ee F He. oS ae a ae = Wie & r
ree a? ¥: ‘ it. rr see pa | f * 4 i rs) A iv ie Soe a ‘ | t,
ka & op} " '
it enn bal a td nar B rf
alk: 5 ane A er a iPr ;
* o ‘ _ , ) a’,

® iY - ;
| hate i Sl ae) Fe ; Eee
1 Mm ry * —_— 7 "
‘ Ff . a ae Bad ‘ , | = = ‘ f “joe ir ¢ ye NE V4
7 ‘i Pits “~ s t ee rs * b= 7 f 4
p a a =o
d eT 1 ee
Se eee Gt

 
   
   
   
  
  
    
   
 
     
  

a :
= i ja
7 - - «
7 wae? ie
» 3? *
Cy Ys ae *
i} } efor t Loi
= +3) " , = i é
ait ree a
a) eo Pi {
* > ; : 7 .
¥
rt he .
C b | i
r - ine}
ply :
i
rh) i fl 5
ey
,

ie _» them away, there are onions in them,

; z a

 

Kliff’s Krazy Kuts

Little Contributions,
Either humorous or sad,
Help to keep this column,
From being awful bad.
—Oakland Daily.

 

Meds and Dents note:—Don’t buy thermometers in the summer, they are lower in
the winter.

 

Professor: (in Math. 2.) ‘‘Suppose a line
drawn of invisible ink, cutting another line
of invisible ink of a different color.’’

V. G. Interne—‘‘You have acute appendicitis.’’
Flapper—‘‘Oh, thank you doctor.’’

 

Shirreff Hall—'‘Did I ever show you the
place where I was tattooed ?”’

Pine Hill—‘‘Gosh, no.’’

S, H.— ‘Well we’ll walk around that way
going home.’’

 

Dear Kliff: Sweet music has been discoursed ‘‘of laté’’ in the vicinity of Shirreff
Hall. Fair sleepers have been awakened who
are not ordinarily disturbed by thunder.
Can you explain this Mr. Editor?

Anxiously, SARA NAID.

Ans.—Shocking: Where there is thunder

there must be some lightning: Have you a

little conductor in your room.?
—KLIFF.

 

The boys in First Year Law like to have a
Rom(a) round during classes!

 

Jim Graham — (Reading last week’s
Gazette). ‘‘Sir Roger DeCoverley and Mr.
Spectator at a Field Hockey Game: Ye gods,

‘are those fellows back here again ?’’

Waiter:—Were the eggs cooked long
enough, sir?

_ Diner :—Yes, but not soon enough.

 

SIM GOES HUNGRY!
S-m G-ss (at supper table) : ‘Pass the meat
cakes, Jim.”’
Jim Gr-h-m: ‘‘Here you are.’’

Sm G-ss (after tasting same): ‘‘Take

and
I’m going to the Freshie-Soph!”’

a me ee ee

A. & W. MACKINLAY LTD;
STATIONERS
A complete line of Manuscript

Books in various bindings and
Loose Leaf Note ‘Books kept ta

    
 
  
   
  
 

 

  
 

  
  

 

Depot for Swan Fountain Pens

, > ati 2 ‘te
Peers 4,4 a
ee cg

dent ES v

FEN eT at ee ee ae ee ee eee
ae) oe aes

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE : nee
eS

DALHOUSIE MOOT COURT.

The second case before the Moot Court was
heard last Tuesday afternoon, their ‘‘Lordships’’ Chief Justice Graburn, Mr. Justice
Matheson and Mr. Jplage MacLeod presiding.

The action was brought by the appellants

 

_Mr. and Mrs. Newlywed against ‘‘The Even
ing Globe’’ in whose pages a notice of the
birth of twing to the above mentioned couple
had appeared, which notice the appellants
claimed was of a libellous nature.

The cases were ably represented. R. Kerr,
kK. C. and A. Hull, were of counsel for the
appellants and P. Hickey, K. C. and B.
Morton for the respondents. The noted
specialist Dr. ‘‘Red’’ Sutherland was called
upon by the Bench to give expert evidence in
the case,

Their Lordships feserved judgment.

..—I. L. B.
Judgment In Case.
In Casu Andersonam, Impugnat
vs.
Brownum ‘ Respondet

In consequentt principio contractu ut id
quod non est certum est. Ergo obligati sumus
in hoc casu considerare utrum factae probandae manifestae prima facie bona contractu.

Ad estimatione ejus certe est ut lex de hoc
parte contractu cum claritate et destinctate
immemorialiter enactum erat—cum mens non
ad idem sunt non contractus existet.

Hoc principo applico conclusione nostrum
est :--Andersonam et Brownum numquam erat
in consensu quod responde Brownum alteratione materiale constituavit. Ergo responde
Brownum novus offer et non acceptante fecit
cum appellante contendit.

Ergo decisione . mei est appellante non
potest facere bona casu. Ergo de necessitate
casu ejus credit et decisione est in favore
respondent Brownum. ~

McKENNA.
Judex Supremus.
Hoc dou-decem et ‘novum die Kalendas
Octobri MDCCCCXXIIT. Graham J. concurred.. Colquhoun J. dissented exhaustwely.

 

Football at Night soit in U.S.A.

Although several college and semi-pro foothall teams have discussed the possibility of
night games on electrically lighted fields, the
first actual affair of the sort was staged last
Saturday might in Cincinnati. The University of Cincinnati ‘defeated Kentucky
Wesleyan 17-0 and the game was pronounced
eminently satisfactory from the standpoint of

SenRDETnnniienstieeeetieiememenetneee se a ee

DALHOUSIE.
STUDENTS

WE EXCEL IN

Students’ Loose Leaf Books and
other Students’ Supplies of
all sorts.

FRANK M. ONEILL & CO. LTD

160 GRANVILLE STREET

XMAS PHOTOGRAPHS

cml Wf com
Climo

See our newest styles and get our
special prices to students.

501 BARRINGTON ST.
PHONE SACKVILLE 1395

 

The Boy’s of Old “Dal” |
Are Frequent Visitors. to
ROBINSON’S
CLOTHES SHOP

See Our —All Wool, —
Puls Lins Weak Prac Ulster
i Ge, Suits $17.50 to

 

$39 .00
ROBINSON'S CLOTHES, LTD.

444 BARRINGTON ST.

nner reer reer ee
«

 

 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
  

 
 
  
