   
     
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
     
  
  
        
   
  
 
    
   
  
        
   
 

 

VOL. LV. HALIFAX, N. S., DECEMBER 5, 1923 No. 24
We are in hearty accord with the campaign’ of ! ! ie
The Heth vusis. Gazette the Ottawa biisoens for the adoption of the Eng- Wanted! A Benefector a y
FOUNDED 1969 lish style of rugby in all Canada. A bibliophile in this Province has in the ~%
issuED sin -. +. = =. (ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR “Undoubtedly Rugby ‘football, as played in course of years, got together a remarkable
apifon ee es -  H.& READ. BA. Great Britain, is the game that is also played in collection of books, The catalogue indicates:
3  heene1kte EOI TORS ¢ every other British country. Because central 2347 separate items, and many more than this
DR. Webster, B.A. Miss Juanita O'Connor, B.Comm Canadian schools .have been led to follow the number of volumes. He has speeialized ‘in 
Vintent F. Seat
FACULTY EDITORS —

Miss ‘Care Murray


A. B. Morton

IL. Barnhill W.-4. Gilchrist
| vines E. A. Mowat nda M
grponTsepiron . - ~S se «S&P, T. Hickey
GIRLS*SPORTS EDITOR = - - | Miss B, 1. Macneill
-EXGHANGE EDITOR —- ‘ 3 R. F. Ross
_ « Miss Angela Magee We B. MacOdrum
STAFF ARTIST. |. = Bake 'D. B..Green_
OVERSEAS CORRESPONDENT rae ~ J-A. Duslop, B.A

eke 7, _ J. GORDON FOGG.
2 eee Te ee

piste res

 
  
 
    
  

During the -p: ‘few years Dalhousie has
a ag Papid progress as a medical —
That th development has not -been
d is shown by the fact that Dal| wed. by the
of Regen | of the
¢ of New ork. Petia tie New

  

as
| students:
oe New

  

_ tuterest in’ the British game. |
pee “apostles,”

ee ee

FOUNDED 1869

 

American style of Rugby, Canada is unable to par-’
ticipate on an equal footing with Australia, New

Zealand or South Africa in the great international
tours that are made by the rugby football tgams
within the League of British nations.”

“Rerhaps as the public interest grows in such
efforts as are being made in Ottawa, Montreal and
other Canadian cities to. promote | the game,
universities like Toronto, McGill and Queens’ and
the R, M. C, at Kingston, may be
adopt the British game, so that visiting teams from

“the other nations in the Commonwealth, as well as

from the Mother country, would find foemen
worthy of their steel:in other parts of Canada than
the east and west sections, ”

With the winning of the McTier trophy, emblem
| atic of the English Rugby championship of Eastern

Canada, McGill shows signs of a reawakened
Three Dalhousie
“Kenny” Beaton, Max Maceye were. Mmetnbers of

  

,
un on - ¢ p
a gh ae a? A \
a ry
c : ’ :
." ’

      
 
     
 
 
 
  
       
       
    

THE Saas CONVENTION

 

During the approaching Xmas vacation, from .

Dec. 28 to Jan, 1, there is to be held in the city
of Indianapolis a large student convention under
the auspices of the Student Volunteer Movement
for Foreign Missions.

Among the » ‘gpeakers”are Harry S$. Ward and
Mrs, Raymond Robins on “Modern Industrialism,”,
Hon. Newton Rowell and probably ex-President
Wilson on “International Relations.”

The programme is a very interesting one. For
those who are’ interested in these problems, and
” interested enough to pay the price in time and
money, this.conference holds out the chance of a
lifetime. For special rates, cost of trip, and fuller

~ information on the Comference,. see the presidents —

ee different branches of the S.C, A,
Bre ua . —C.F. e

’ . BA
, mn he ~ a. hs a wy
Ay waa ss x. -! eee “

 

 

inspired. to

A A colleetion. as this would Pee stud ont .

- way in, which he presented it, Dr; Cameron } - he

ee mi

 

belles lettres. His collection is rich in standard (not. ephemeral) fiction, in poety, in, ‘i
American authors, and in Canadiana, It ine
cludes a large number of first editions, and. special collections on the Stuarts and’ on. rc
Napoleon. Among the more valuable items
are the multifarious publications of Swin- 4
burne'and Andrew Lang. Child’s ‘“Ballads,’”
long out of print, is one of the rarer works, .
Even with carte blanche for expenses, “a
would be difficult, if not impossible to dupli- 7
cate this library. It would also take years; —
If this collection were broken up and ing .
persed, or if it should be sold out of the 4 %
try, the loss would be well-nigh irreparabl uh
As it stands, it would supplement and enr "
our Library in a most desirable way. In buy- =
ing books,, the principle followed as tae a
— are fortheoming, is severely practical
is to buy such works as are needed in t
‘be classes. for teaching or reference. Suh:

- in general reading.
RA that la weankeged te few te doles,
 dars. ‘Cannot friends of Dalhousie see thei ir
way to help in this matter? This ibrary “4s
would make a most. fitting Christmas present...
—A. M. -M. a

~ ae

rae
An Excellent Lecture. ~ ae
Considering the proximity of Christmas examinations, the attendance at the meeting of the Medi-..
eal Society held on Thursday, wow 23, was a
good. |
A number of items of peel were atncusseds 21 4
but the feature of the evening was an address bref
Dr, John Cameron on “The Anatomy and Psychol-:’
ogy of Ancient Egypt.” Dr. Cameron dwelt pi =
ticularly -upon Tut-ankh-amen, that perienes
Egyptian history in which he lived, his tomb 2
its contents. The word “Egyptology” means ve
little to. most. medical students, but by his tho; a
ough knowledge of the subject, and the interes tir ;

1 2s

   
 

 

  
   
   
  
 

 
 
   

   
   
 
     
     
     
    
 
     
    
   
   

rie
ra
td
eh

  

Le

  

   

the keenest attention of all who. attended the lece!
ture. As Bob MutLeod, President of . the Medical ©
Society, apelaret, “At, was the best clone : ever F

  

iy on the
aes. mm en r ae
net: th cil fora on Sy mT

 

pert of ur cousin
g the @

oS ‘
2

xford Letter’

‘Our O

., Back once more to “deah old Oxford,” after 4

wather uneventful trip across’) On my way down
‘from... Liverpool, while. changing at Bletchley,
itrangely enough, I encountered Walsh of King’s;
~whiom I had left in Halifax less than two weeks
‘before. So we made our entrance together, driv‘fing in state from the station in a hansom of 1847
vintage, with driver mounted behind, and admiring citizens looking strangely at new world crea-tions, in an old world environment.

(f course, Oxford, the second year, has lost
that newness which makes one regard everything
with reverence. For after a time one gets used
to strange happenings and ancient customs, and
begins to look on them as the ordinary. . Again the
‘the second year is so much more serious than the
first—one has scarcely time to indulge in anything which is not in direct advancement of the
suvreme idea—preparation for “Schools”. For
schools, to wit, final examinations, are here held
only at the end of the entire course, and one
stands or falls by the marks obtained in the one
single set of papers. Those then, who at Dal, before examinations, are adverse to shake their heads
for fear of losing some vital point reposing superficially on the surface, will perhaps realize the
necess'ty for the downcast looks, and the strained
distant appearance of he who is vainly attempting
to keep fresh gleanings gathered through two or
perhaps three years of reading.

I read with interest the account of the Union
sgiven by Prof. Read in the “Gazette.” I attend
occasionally, but like most Colonials and Americans, have not the temerity to risk the approval
.or disapproval of an English audience. Only last
week a Virginian at our college, spoke, but he
must have been rather discouraged when a very
frank college paper stated that “our aversion to
‘jtalics prevents us from giving any adequate idea
of the ‘powerful’ (sic!) speech of Mr. X.” Strange
to say, one of the most enjoyable portions of any
meeting at Oxford, is in the reading of the min-utes of the previous meeting. These, far from

being cut and dried statements of facts, are generally witty and exceedingly humorous, while yet
stating all the essentials. In the Colonial and
American clubs, the minutes generally are as good

_ .as any other item on the programme. I have
often thought that class secretaries at Dalhousie

 

t would not need so much “dragging” to get a
ch «quorum present, if they would inject a little humor
- 4nto their notes. After the reading of the minte -tites there is another institution which seems to me,

-* govd. The president gravely asks, “are there any
oh questions to be asked of the officers relative to
Me ‘the discharge of their official duties?” This really
-. constitutes a test of the quickness of wit of the
-officers. Some one will arise and ask, a most inane
~ ,question, and the quickness with which the person
addressed can return a suitable answer, commends
or condemns him to the audience. In college
_gocieties they have numerous minor officers, generag ally with high sounding titles, for instance, Lord
“High Commissioner of the Public Easements, Cigar
+ _*Barterer Extraordinary, Milerian Professor of Lau__ datory. Exegesis, the latter whose duty it is to call
the attention of the society to anyone of the college who has achieved notoriety. .\At a recent
meeting of the society, the truly American posi
 
    

  
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
      

sf

an

[

” =
* «
= o@

tion of “chucker out” was added as a minor

4

t

;
WA

      

F 1 a six-foot native of Georgia was appointed. mittees. ee he Sa i
“Which, reminds me of a rather amusing incident — Well, for the present good-bye: I may later

 

   
  
  

Pr

SODALES TO TRY OXFORD DEBATING
STYLE.

“Are we satisfied with the present system of
debating at Dalhousie?”’''Phis was the’ paneipal question at the first regula? meeting of ‘the Sodales
Debating Society, held in ‘the ‘Moot Court Ftoorm
on Friday evening, Nov: 23rd. vine

After an animated discussion it was moved'end
passed that the Society give the “Oxford system”
a fair tryout in Interfaculty debates, and if it
proves a success, recommend it for adoption in
Intercollegiate debates at the next mecting of the
Maritime Council.

It was also decided that a committce consisting
of two representatives from each faculty shou'd,
in co-operation with the executive of the Society,
inquire into the situation and draw up plans whereby the Society can best put the “Oxford Union
System” into operation. The committee chosen
is as follows:—

Arts—Amy McKean, Gerald Godsoe.

Law—aA. C. Milner, A. G. MacKinnon.

Medicine—Don Webster, Roy Bennett.

Dentistry—Gordon Dawson, John Dobson.

Pharmacy—Leonard Fraser.

In Intercollegiate debating, as this is the last
year of the six-year cycle, it was determined to
continue the old system.

This year Dal debates King’s and they. have submitted the following subject for approval: “Resolved, that Confederation is in the best interests
of the Maritime Provinces.”

Dalhousie has the choice of sides, and the meeting left it with President Gilchrist in conjunction
with his advisory committee to decide which side
to take.

Prof. Mercer being present, urged that the
Society adopt subjects of international interest
for their Interfaculty debates.

; af anh 2

—A. B. M.

ee
arette. Just after he had thrown it away up came

a bustling attendant, about 5 feet high (whereas
the Georgian is a good 6 feet 2) and with all the
deference possible, said, “I’m sorry, sir, one is not
‘allowed to smoke in the library!” Looking down
at him from his great height, the American said
simply “Is one smoking?”—emphasis on the “one.”
This remark took the attendant so by surprise that
he retired hastily muttering as he was going away
“T thought I saw one smoking!”

As for the other Dalhousians at Oxford, almost
daily I see Murray Emeneau, pulling a lusty oar
in one of the Balliol boats. His Lunenburg experience ought to stand him in good stead there.
When I first visited him I found him deep in books
preparing for such things as “Honor Mods.” Hav-~ing experienced much the same thing myself last
year, I knew that it was unnecessary for him to
take these examinations with a degree from Dalhousie, so we repaired to the University Registry
where we confirmed our views. Of course, such a
short cut to the B. A. degree meant an additional
payment to the University chest, but I think in this
case it is worth it. Darrell Laing and Henri Binet
both received their B. A. degrees the other day
and are now hard at it again for the B.C. L. As
this is their third year, they are both out of residence, “in digs” as they say here. H. H. Walsh
of King’s who is at Christ Church is gradually
settling down, and has many amusing incidents to

 
    

 

 

  

Aquatics at Oxford.

of ways and methods of English reception com-—

'
’
‘
? '
an.
' "al

  
 

= ET PE See oe
= " 6

Dey Caterer! Iai A Gerigrous: Hit,

A GATHERING OF GOOD SPORTS,

 

“OH Saturday évenihg, Novertiber 24th, the Senior
fditball ‘Players were the guests of Dr. Caineron
ht his new residence on’ Solith Street.’ Althéil
it’ Was ‘a’ “dark and stormy” “night all ‘but ‘thide
of the*'régulars turned out and ‘a most enjoyable
evening was spent by all ©” ar

Dr. Cameron, with his usual thoughtfulness, had
cigarettes, chocolates and apples galore for: the
boys, and Roy Woodill saw that each had his fill.

Four tables of progressive bridge engaged the
attention of the guests until eleven o’clock when
refreshments were served and the prizes awarded,
the lucky ones being Manager Henry Borden,
“Donnie” McInnes and “Harry” Langwith.

Before a well spent evening was brought to a
close three lusty cheers were given for Dr. Cameron, who said in reply that it was “such gatherings as these which keep up the real spirit of comradeship and good sportsmanship which so characterize athletics at Dalhousie.”

FRESHMEN HOLD FIRST CLASS DANCE.

 

The members of the Freshman Class had their
first party on Thursday, Nov. 22. They spent the
first part of the evening on a walk; it proved to
be an excellent way to get acquainted. They then
proceeded to Camp Hill where they had a bean
supper—minus ice cream and gake—and spent the
rest of the evening in dancing. The music was
provided by the class orchestra.

Dr. and Mrs. Bell, Prof. and Mrs. Theakston,

were the chaperones.

 

WHAT FOR?
DANCE.

WAIT! THE _ LAW

WATCH!

—

JENSEN & MILLS CO, LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
| 119 YOUNG ST.

THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES |

PRICES RIGHT — QUALITIES
RIGHT—SERVICE RIGHT

     

 

_kinds, Winter Overeoats, Hats and |
| Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suit
 

’.
x s
+ : 7 eos ees

ape eet

  

*

   

tem ll =

 

 

A splendid stock of furnishings of all °|

= * * 7 *
: ‘ 4 P tT
‘ ‘ = . : |
ONE OF DAL. CARDS |
Pe ea . re , 7. rm
ae ca i 7 Pa 4 — ae * =
a ; ’, st * ’ ‘ éT
eh ® aes a a {
> y < — 7 to ae : 7
? ay .
” “ - ‘
- i 4 :
od Phas ss ’ =e
. . 7s

a ee,
i. ee | eS
e

   

Shall Vassar oe. Roll. Their Own?
ey Delta, Gammas Don’t.»
sou Young lady of Vassar who. smokes cigarettes
pr. Walks about the campus with bare knees now
does so contrary to ‘the Honor System rules of; her
school. Regulations ta this effect have lately been
entered in ,the constitution; and .much. opposition
has arisen against their remaining, . It is contended
that the personal liberty of the girl is threatened.
é The persons most concerned, or unconcerned, say
that no honor system should interfere with the
minute details of their private affairs, and that
they will not be deprived of the privilege of a
promenade with the affectionate zephers osculating
against their knees.”

In relating the above described condition at
Vassar the Varsity says that such regulations are
unnecessary at the University of Toronto. That
such a ruling would be superfluous at Dalhousie
also is apparent to even the most casual observer
of the dainty “College Maids.”

The Varsity is uncertain as to whether the high
cost of tobacco in Canada, the chilly climate, or
the spirit of feminism which, on their discovery
that the men must ever excel in naughtiness,
impels the fair co-eds to “be good in order to be
first at something,” accounts for their good sense.

 

THE LAWYER'S BRIEF.

 

A special meeting of the Law Society was called
on November 22nd to hear the report from the
committee appointed for the Law Dance. After a
somewhat lengthy report had been delivered a motion was passed authorizing the committee in
charge to make final arrangements necessary in
order that the dance might be held early in thé
new year. Additional committees were appointed
for advertising purposes and to assist in the sale
of tickets.
On November 29th another meeting of the
Society was called to receive the réport of the
committee appointed by the Sodiety to attend the
recent meeting of the Dalhousie Skating Club.
After the report of the committee had been accepted the majority of the members of the Society
4 expressed themselves as not in favor of the pro% position that the Skating Club construct an open
air rink for the use of the students.

 

Dalhousie honored her champion football team
by a banquet given in the St. Julien Room of Halifax Hotel. About forty-five invited guests were
present, including Mr. Chipman, Manager H. Borden, and the members of the senjor, intercollegiate
aud intermediate teams. The two trophies won
during the past season graced the centre table.

 

     

 

4

 
    

aw
a a

4

 
 

  

Fa URE TCT RE TT
® é r

~

” “ald a 7 erway, Payers J ee od ee Fe &
- . f " 7 ary +; &
er St ee 7 we beni yer s "1 at, Ak

- 3254-220. # walk om %
: : - . > °
>. 
aTHE. DALHOUSIE ‘GAZETTE
BEFORE THE FRESHIES RETURNED: 
P FF
Tune: “Oh Gee! Oh Gosh!” (Allegretto con spirito)

Oh gee! oh gosh! oh gollyt:we're in luck,
Those Freshies.sure ‘were! loose-about the nut,.
To go out on a walk and leaye ‘the eats alone.
With no one to stand..guard. but. the telephone.
Oh me!.oh my! let each one take a brick,

Go to the.Frisco and eat till we’re sick.

And when we're thru our fun

Let each of us keep mum.

Oh gee! oh gosh! oh golly! we're in luck.

 

AFTER.
Tune: “Yes!-——??” (Moderato expresso)

 

Yes, we have no ice cream,

We have no ice cream tonight. 
A bunch of old sissies who wouldn't take whiskeys
Took all our ice cream, all right.
We have beans, baked a la Boston,

Cake without any frostin’,

But yes, we have no ice cream,

We have no ice cream tonight.

—SOPH.

 

About

150 people were entertained by the
Dental Society on Friday evening, Nov. 28rd, at
the Munroe Room where the “Dental Night” was
staged. To borrow a phase from the
Daily it was “Noctem Cuckoo!”

Pine Hill’s jazz orchestra, suitably attired for
the oceasion in dental coats, opened the entertainment and also played in between the regular acts
in their best style, which was very much appreciated by all. President Dalgleish who acted as
chairman with a few well chosen words then
introduced Dr. Thompson who proceeded with a
Short talk on the care of the teeth.

This lecture though necessarily brief was very
interesting and included a demonstration of how
the teeth should be brushed and was interspersed
with several jokes told in Dr, Thompson’s inimitiable style.

Following the lecture came the musical part of
the program. Dr. Beckwith was as usual in good
voice and sang two solos. These were encored
just as heartily by the Shirreff Hall girls as by the
members of this operative class, which is saying a
good deal. Later in the evening Dr. Beckwith
sang by special request, “The Storm on Lac St.
Piere,” greatly to the delight of the audience.

Norman Losada, the virtuoso from third year
Dentistry then rendered several violin selections
showing wonderful versatility and éxpression.

Dr. Ralph Daigleish and Lady Assistant Vince

Clifford then proceeded to bring the house down

Varsity

with, their burlesque pantomine of an ethical
dentist’s office. Murray Logan, a cute, though
rather bashful, small boy was the first patient and
several oversized teeth were extracted from him
including a badly absessed one. Barry Shaffner, a
“cullud lady” was the next victim and had a set of
false teeth enlarged in a marvellous
while she waited. Charlie McIntosh a rheumatic

old gentleman, was the last patient and the most

_ envied one

A ant

incubator

as he had a gold filling hammered in
escaped with the !

    
  
 
  

7 ” ree. | 7 i a oe ‘ 4Pp"%

    
 
 
 
 
 
 

was overheard humming: “The Yanks are com- a
ing—the Yanks are coming.” Did they come. _

  

COMMERCE CLEARINGS.

—_—__-- _

Letters have been received from H. C. “Clint’?”
Muir, ‘announcing his safe arrival. “Clint” dikes: .
Chica go—especially the shows(?)! Nee

On. Thursday afternoon, 22nd Nov., in Room 4}.
a very able and instructive address was delivered.
by Mr.. Dugald Macgillivray, superintendent of the:
Bank of Commerce in the Maritime Provinces, ‘to:
the Commerce students, and other Dalhousians..
Mr. Macgillivray dealt with “Some Aspects of the:
Canadian Banking System.”

A short meeting of the Commerce Society was:
held afterwards, and an Athletic Committee wag.
formed with “Ted” Chipman as chairman.

Another generous gift of $200 has been con-tributed toward the purchase of books for the:
Commerce Department. The department is deep-ly indebted to Mr. A. H. Buckley for this donation..

New books are appearing on the Commerce:
shelf in the Library. Much care and thought has:
been taken in the selection of these books, and all.
Commerce students should become acquainted with.
these new editions purchased from the funds do—
nated to the Commerce Society.

     
   
      
  
    
    
 
    
   
    
    
   
     
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
    
    
   
    
   
     
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
  
   

—E. A, M.

 

JUDGE PATTERSON’S RECORD.
UNBEATEN?

IS IT.

 

New Glasgow, N., S.,

Nov. 24, °28,
Dear Gazette:

The humble individual who signs this note easily”
beats the record of his esteemed young friend.
Professor Douglas MacIntosh—he has been a con-tinuous swbscriber to the Gazette for 45 years and.
hopes to be for a good many years longer.

Yours sincerely,
GEORGE PATTERSON.
SS.

As has been known for a considerable time
Ralph Dalgleish’s ability as a comedian ‘is second:
to none at Dalhousie and his acting requires no
comment, the showing however of his partner,.

Vince Clifford surprised the boys who little:
suspected that under such a staid and dignified.
manner so much dramatic ability could be hidden..

The “Dark horse quartette” which wound up the: |
entertainment gave successive renderings as @
quartette, a trio, a duet and wouhd up as a solo.
Apparently the singers could not harmonize to:
their bi are and thus various members:
were discarded in an ende
Seca avor to ne away to am:

The refreshment committee under the able:
direction of “Bert” and “Angie” covered up the:
retreat of the quartette and circulated the ice:
cream and cake. After this had been disposed of”
the Dental infirmary, X-Ray room and the various.
laboratories were thrown open for general inspec-tion of the various kinds of technic work. One:
sad feature of the inspection was that Sandy who:
ae . ay guide to a group of young ladies:
couldn’t decide which
eens aan one to ask and 7 to go:

The Society is deeply grateful to the members of” ‘
the faculty whose co-operation and support made:
possible the Dental Night, and feel that a great: J
deal of credit is due the various members of thes
different committees whose hard work helped to» "2 “ |
make the affair a success. ia
Dexter with Kelly McLean in extracting room. —

  

   
  
 
  

 
  
  

     
    

    
  

   
  
    
   
 
  
  
  

   
     
   
    
  

 
  
  

   

         
  

  

   
  
  
   

     
 

¥

ia


‘) foe
*

 
   

yes 4
i;

}
f

Tie

e+

f
i

    
  

a

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

4.

J
= y S

i *

te
¥ ig
™A

i" +
Hh 1

‘|

ur de

e
Wt |
‘Your only remedy, a supp. on it.

i,
oh
ae
rag

x
.


1
a

iy a

CITADEL HILL.

aed

For all God’s hills I render thanks as
through the world I go,

For green hills and heather hills and hills
of rock and snow,

And here there is a little hill whose praises
I would tell: .

‘The little hill called Citadel, the hill I love
so well.

"€

Ships see it ere the dawn comes up close
veiled in purple mist,

Or flecked at noontide green and gold, a
jewel warm sun-kissed,

And where a ship comes sailing
moonlight round the bend

It sees my hill stand grim and straight, a
staunch and kindly friend.

in the

For all God’s hills I render thanks, and

now let it be known
That in this alien city where a stranger
walks alone
There’s one small hill that’s neighbourly
and kind beyond compare, :
The little hill called Citadel, the friend

that’s always there.
—CANORA.

 

' A Student’s Version of “Omar.”

 

(With the usual to Fitzgerald.)

Wake! For the weeks are drawing to a close,
Exams are looming—leave ye your repose,

And with the feverish brow far into night

‘The lectures cram, till dawn’s gray morning light—
Oh threats of profs, and hopes of just a pass—_
One thing at least is certain—not a class,

One thing is certain, and, the rest is lies—

| ‘The pass that once has flown, forever dies.

Then to the lips of one poor earthen urn

I leaned, the secret of my life to learn,

And lip to lip it murmured—“While you're here
Cram hard! Once out, you never shall return.”

Oh prof!
My pen until my finger tips
‘Thou wilt not, oh so sternly,
And then, alas, impute my fall to

Who didst with lectures make me ply
were numb—

list me “plucked”
“dumb’’?

those who stood before

“Open wide the door!
we've crammed de
And, as the bell rang,
‘The gym then shouted
You know how quickly what

parts

And, once departed, may return no more.”

* “The stern professor plucks, and having plucked

Moves on,—nor all your piety nor wit,
Can lure him back to alter one small mark,

. A lecture-room, with stern professor there.

__ Abush! Some anxious students, and a prayer

pel bs
iv:

co

_ From every
. And lecture room were Paradise so fair.
ae) with the pen my fading life provide,
And wash y whence the life has died,

heart, and then, oh joy! a pass—

 
  

yparchment roll of sheepskin wrapt,

 

i

eo Ty.
«

ey ui eee ee : te

With Apologies to Mr. Pope.

Lo, the poor maiden! whose misguided mind
Dwells in an age thats long since left behind.
Her mind has never been allowed to stray
To fashions of the flappers of today!
No powdered carmine blushes on her cheek,
Nor lip-stick, nor the the Pencil does she neck
Ic, decorate herself—she does not dance,
Iler charms are left to nature or to chance,
To be contents her simple soul’s desire
She asks no cigarette, no cocktail’s fire—
And never in this world need she be vexed
With doubts about her comfort in the :ext!
bata), FP. J

 

The Fleas.

“It will be of interest to the general public, and
of greater import to the scientific world, to learn
that Baron Rothschild has presented his unique
collection of fleas to the British Museum. Among
this cumulation are several specimens of the now
famous Antarctic louse.”—London Times.

 

Through the rolling Western prairie,
Yea, whatever lands may be,

They have searched on all things hairy
I'or the sly elusive flea.

They have searched without emotion
Over land*and air and ocean,

Anywhere they had a notion
That this enemy might be.

They have searched the little rabbit,
And the reindeer, hare and eel,
And they’ve even tried to grab it
From the far off Arctic seal.
Armed with a bow and arrow
They have searched the grim Sahara:
Yea, the very tomb of Pharaoh
In the greatness of their zeal.

From the depths of the Atlantic,
To the deep cerulean blue,
They have searched till they were frantic,
And have penned them in the zoo.
Now in fine or stormy weather
You may see them all together,
Fleas of hide and horn and feather:

Honor be where honor’s due! |
—PULEX REX.

 

IN THE LIMELIGHT.

 

A. 8. M.—A suave mentality.

M. M.—“Mothers” marticulants.

A. M.—Academic mentor.

H. L. $.—Hibernia’s louquacious son.
H. F. M.—Has freshman’s modesty. ~
H. M.—Honey-tongued mythologist.
H. L. B.—Hustles lazy bromides.

G. E. W.—Generally enchants women.
D. A. M—Swear-word! , H’sh!

J. C—Just charming. (“Scotch,” of course).

H. A. K—Heaves away knowledge. G. K. T.—Gent krowns teeth.

A. G. N.—A great neologian.

J. H. L, J.—Juggles his little jokes.
J. E. R.—John’s exactly right.

 

 
 

THE BANOOK WINTER CLUB, DARTMOUTH

   

Webster’s Column

The book prize for the best poem submitted during the month of November has been awarded to
Miss Molly A. Beresford; that for the best prose
to A. F. Newcomb and A. C. Milner. The Gazette
congratulates the winners of these prizes.

The number of prose contributions has fallen
off the past month. While we realize that the
Christmas exams are approaching we see further
that the holidays will be an excellent opportunity
for the student to do some writing both in prose
and verse. We welcome contributions and everything submitted is given most earnest considera
tion. Let us have a flood of material after this

Christmas vacation.

 

“THE NERVOUS GROOM.”

 

(Companion-“poem” to the “Blushing Bride” of
the Saskatoon “Sheaf.”)

They talk about the blushing bride

And tell us how she flushes,

But what about the nervous groom

Amidst his former crushes?

Among the dainty damsels ’round

He sees so very many

Whom he has “rushed” and sworn to love—

There’s Eloise and Jenny—

And over there (give him some air)

He soon discerns Colletta!

Jane, Sally, Sue and Annabelle,

(Has she still got that lettah?)

He stutters, stammers, shakes and shies,

His eyes to heaven swerve

No wonder he’s the nervous groom

 

 

oes 6. COR. &
oa | om,

Miss C. F. Johnson, C. H.
C. Campbell, D. MacInnes

 
  

Ye gods! He had the nerve!
—McK.
i 1 iaullicininnpenaeicanets
LITERARY “D” STANDING.
(To Nov. 21, 1923, inclusive.)
T, A, Ceemelow ci vip rccvicvar ceed cueeesnncers 20
Miss E. I. Macneill, W. B. MacOdrum.....--+ 17
W. Poirier, C. R. Baxter veccvsssecsescerss 17
Ay, Robertson .isssccsvescncers coseeee coed ae
R. F. Ross, P. T. Hickey .-ss+eessesrre® soe
Miss Angela Magee, J. A. Forbes....++++ we
1 Yo BAGH ©. 5 vec vccendawneevecsess iced ase
YU, BF CUMOTE oo cis eee sas eden Soh sow openers 10
W. G. Dawson, H. A. Creighton ......++++++ 10
Miss Amy McKean, B. Irwin .-.-+--: a
Miss C. F. Murray, W. S. Gilchrist ...++-++-> 8
Miss M. A. Beresford, D. F. MacDonald...... 7
- A. F. Newcombe, G. Morrison....++++++++' 6
Berl Green .....+--+++* + fetes seeeneeeees 6
FE. A. Mowat, S. Marcus ...-+seerrssereres 5
T. M. Cumming, H. Borden er.++++e+ssrert* 4
Miss Marion Hoben, F. J. Forbes ....-+++:+* 4
Miss Olive Madden, E. Wetmore ..++--+++++: 4
Miss Hope Hamilton, A. B. Morton ...sr-.++. 8
Miss R. Bond, D. Hebb «...++fsrereeererer® 8
© FL Malobe cists cccegs cas ceres vecevess 8
_  R. Williams, J. A. Smith coeugtegnceeoaens .

‘ * ; 2
cae eessseovtoreser =

G. MacOdrum, Miss May Linton ......+s+0+ &,
Proffitt

   
  
  
 

C. Coffin, §. Proffitt |
C. M. Oake, C. McLean ee beceeeseeoorseeres
ye Fraser pe eeeneens #6, 4,2 9 ae

 
  

 

=
A
q c -" , j
On Tha "y ' ‘ eS “Fine, a a
. Phas _ a -_ a 79
| oat fi | “4
i” 
iy et 1

a —)
rig?

‘eS a +
“ay

ees gaa Reenn 6a Vb spree OF

1 2

fr. li ‘
eogteget sash”
¥ oo + me “e ! -e ~y ' , .
Be he WON «+s seen ee ee eee. Pe:
~* { Sa oe wai Pia hl eee . »* “ae vs mh
7 ; a whe << . + Sty eee
#4 ES _y ‘tae 7 «: a | ° Ant > So = +2 > s = he em oy” nA =3
ore ee ot Si TR ee Ries tie ae ae
' | ey ie Googe a’ ne EA ote tat, A rs ld
: f A ; é ay a hy Pang 7

- b
es

    

‘

     

MI Eee Sa Tere Pee Re we
"i ie. shee *s > ; 4 , ’ §

SS SaaS ae
. : . '

 

Pine Hill Post

 

Tabellarius heard a most exhilirating story
about Howard Hamilton this week, but as he
threatened to shoot us if we told, for the
present it must remain unwritten.

Paris, Atlantic City and other fashionable
centres. have nothing on Pine‘ Hill when it
eomes to introducing new customs. What is
heralded in New York as the last thing in
American ingenuity, (wearing spats with
buttons on fhe iiside) was first done in this
up to date residence with Bill Firth leading
the way. .

One, W. A. Richardson, Machiaveilian,
political wire-puller visited our erstwile tranquil domains one Sunday. He succeeded in
raising the old political spirits again and pet
Dune. MeMillan and Arthur Forbes at each
ciher’s throats. Results were very laudable.
Thursday six waiting automobiles conveyed
some of the boys, by a round about trip via
the courthouse to Studley. Which made us
wish we had not registered before.

Rumor has it that Ernie Priest, not satisfied
with his victories over ‘‘ Edgehill’’ and ‘‘H.
L. C;’’ has sought new hearts to conquer. We
forget the name of the School, but it begins
with an ‘‘S’’ and is in Vermont.

We have not yet found out who rooms in
No. 3, so closely is it guarded. Martin
Matheson speaking from experience in such
matters, has very strong and tempting
suggestions about a raid some night.

Congratulations are due Jack Nicholson
who has just been awarded a valuable scholarship by a prominent American university.

With characteristic business acumen and
under the distinguished patronage of His
Holiness, Bearcat has added a spat-lending
department to his numerous enterprises. An
hour before the formal opening ‘‘Jigger’’
and Ewart McKay were patiently waiting to
deal with him.

Blanchard Thompson recommends a ButterTaleum lotion as the most up-to-date method
of treating tousled hair. He has tested the
formula personally and has proved its
effectiveness. Good chance for Brown to
make himself charming. Cite

Central asks that a seperate telephone booth
be installed for Douglas Archibald.

On our desk this morning we found this

little ode signed by (3 & 1).

“Though many a time we call

“Our girls at Shirreff Hall

‘We don’t get there at all.

‘It isn’t fair, |

‘“‘For in our future lives, they’re going to
be our wives.

How the Heck did you find that out? Miss
Lowe said so.’’

‘Dats’ da stuff’? she said as Harrison

_ removed his goggles. For further elucidation
a see ‘‘Jo,’” 4 7 r

oss ~~.
- vv ’ 1%. x had 7

 

ot - ae
a ae 6 eS ge . ae he
A ae a rats y plans 4 my
ae st Ae ; a

\ i = 4 ees re ‘
, af an eB AY |
4: r ' . - * |

een

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

The writing on the watl,

enGiN ERIC

 

 

The ‘Engineers are very fortunate in having
had the opportunity of visiting some of the larg_ est industrial concerns in the city. Their first trip
was to the Imperial Oil works. Space cannot be
monopolized here to give a detailed description of
the trip, but, in spite of the varying odours of the
oil in its various stages of refinement, they spent
a very interesting morning.

The next venture was to the Halifax Shipyards.
Through the kindness of Mr. Paige and his assistants the boys were shown through the entire plant
anf were given instructive talks on the various
methods in the repairing and building of ships.

The Engineering Society are indeed very grateful to the managements of both concerns.

All wonder if the “Mr. Z.” referred to in
“Freshette Erin’s” article is “our Bert’’?

The late dance at Shirreff Hall reminded several of the Engineers of the popular song, “Yes,
we have no Bananas.”

Bananas, trawslated from Hebrew, means “in,vitations.”

—*PLUMB BOB.”

 

JOLLY JUNIORS VISIT ORPHEUS.

 

On Friday evening, Nov, 28rd, Class ’25, chaperoned by Mrs. Murray Macneil, held one of their
gay theatre parties. Through the efficient offices
of President Armstrong everybody was paired off
satisfactorily and the party, number 44, reached
the Orpheus in high spirits with only two “stags,”
who whiled away the time by “rolling a mean
eyelash” at the sweet usherette.

Next stop:—Miss Frances McLennan’s on South
Park St., where a very enjoyable dance was held.
Johnny Thirrott officiated at the piano and things
went with a swing.

Sidelights on this little event were, the vocal
exhibition at Shirreff Hall and the misadventure

' “ a i

* fa

sy 7 : fl re 7

i * ~T. : ‘as 3 . I
at Zs ile 7 4

Li yet F F P

, ¥ heii iJ ie
: 7 |
*- A { é ;
i

a ip a lla OT

aT)
.
& 4a

 

Shirreff Hall

 

The dance being a thing of the past, cach
girl is studying, mouse-catching and fire
drilling—to say nothing of having feeds.

Ruth Fulton and Jennie Brown both gave
a feed the same night, and at one of them a
portly young lady entered unexpectedly and
helped herself. Sometime later, when she
announced that she’d almost forgotten that
she’d been asked to Ruth’s, she was gently
told that this was Jennie’s—Ruth’s being up
the hall,

On the night of the 8S. H. dance everyone
was amazed not to say astounded that the
plate of ice cream upon which Tubby sat, was
not smashed. The crockery here is exceptionally well built. But—did Tiny and John
have squatter’s rights on the windowsills?

Has the adage ‘‘like draws unto like,’’ any
connection with the facet that Alice Sproull
and Hattie Morrisey both take to fire boxes,
either for posting letters, or trying keys in?

Can Doris Stephens tell why the floor
mats must be saved in time of fire? It
would be a good thing to have if she had to
stand for long on the cold ground watching
the house burn down.

Any mice out your way, Pine Hill?

—Ack EMMA

DELTA GAMMA’S “CASTLE IN THE AIR.”

 

The drawing room of Shirreff Hall presented an
interesting appearance on the occasion of Delta
Gamma’s last meeting. Vamps, Indians, “the
Sheik,” and Bathing Beauties mingled with such
personages as “Maggie Jiggs’ and the “Three Old
Maids of Lea,” while Brides, a Musician and a
Spanish Cavalier gave a romantic touch to the
assemblage. These interesting characters passed
in a grand march before Miss Lowe, who acted as
judge. She awarded the prize to the, “Three Old
Maids of Lea.”

The professional section of Delta Gamma entertained the simple Arts division with a mock trial.
Roberta Bond was accused of removing a bone
from the head of Marion Irving “which left that
unfortunate person stone deaf. After much argumentation between the lawyers, Olive Maddin and
Grace Wambolt, JudgeAlice Harvey dismissed the
case for lack of evidence. |

Mrs. Harris and the Misses Harris very kindly
furnished the supper. Everyone was greatly surprised to find how quickly 10.80 o’clock arrived. _
—J. O’C.

Ze ae

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL

The first series of the interfaculty basketball
league is well underway with teams from Law,
Medicine, Dentistry, Engineers, Theologs, and
Arts competing. |

The games to date have been very close and
exciting, and the players show much improvement
over last year.

Standing of Teams.

Dentistry eee eee ee eee Feenee

Law eer aw eb en eee eee eee eee

— ee)
pee eK Oo
of © wt

=e i .
ee ee
ott Hee .15
hw As i

ew ——
© as ee img hy 8 ethane ee i
= 4 x 5 . Ys
ee eee ee th
a, a Ae ie "0 aoe cd! “2

ae

Won Lost To-play ‘a

 

en ——
 

 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
  

    
 
 
 

gf “Super-Quality”

  
    
   
  
 
   

JO for 18¢

20 o a5!

(ii: Soand 00"
li "
a

iy »

 
  
  
   
   

 
 

More sold
than all other brands
combined

 

  
   
  
 

Beautifully Cool and
Sweet Smoking.

  

 
   
   
 
  
 
 

     
  
    
  
 
 
  

 
 

 
 
   
   

 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 

  
  
 
  
 

 

y, Game.

I love to go to football games

When autumn winds are chill,

But getting seats two miles away
From where the padded warriors play

Adds little to the thrill.

—S. K. in Life.
And the hardest thing about the “me 9s trying
to get in.

That may not be poetry, but at least it apparently has the merit of coming from the heart of
one who has attended a big football match.

Weeks before the date of the big game the matter of tickets was brought t» my attention. So
one day I languidly wandered down t» the Harvard A. A. C. rooms and made some enquiries.
“Your application must be in by Nov. 1 accompanied by $8, and one ticket only will be given

you.” TI retired subdued, and after careful study
came to the, following conclusions: A graduate
student is supposed to be married and the wife
is home looking after “Donald,” or she didn’t accompany you to college; or else you had reached
that age at which you are no longer interested in
such trivial things as women.

Having satisfied myself on this question I returned to the attack with $3, and found myself
near the end of a long line, which brought back
vivid memories of the “Mulligan Line” when “cook
house” sounded.—Page Jim Graham.

However, patience was at length rewarded and
I reached the ticket counter, where a “person”
proceeded to take my family history and pedigree,
from the time the Hector (Ist) landed. It was a
sort of cross between signing up in the army and
taking out a life insurance policy. Anyway, they
eventually deigned to take my money and informed
me that in due time I would probably receive a
ticket. So I departed, cheered by rumors of fabulous prices paid for tickets by those who couldn’t
get them: $2000 for 4, $1100 for 38, and $100 quotations seemed quite the thing.

Then I received a notice stating that if I applied
I might possibly be able to buy another seat, so
off I trotted and deposited another $3. And just
a week ago I received my tickets—one a personal
ticket for an excellent seat in the “rooting” section
—the other standing room on top of the stadium,
Can't you just picture the girl deposited on the
roof while I disappeared into a howling mob of
5500 or more; and to cap it all, I left my binoculars in Nova Scotia, so I couldn’t even see if she
had waved at me. (That’s one of the few times
I’ve been thrilled that I didn’t know a girl Within a
radius of innumerable miles?)

Well, as was. The big day eventually arrived,
and with it Bill Rose of Winnipeg and Poland—
to use my extra ticket—and I believe he brought
all the fresh water between Winnipeg and Poland
with him. Rain? Why Noah had nothing on that
stadium Saturday afternoon. I forsook my seat
and accompanied Bill to the roof, feeling that I
would at least be longer out of the flood up there,
and there we pondered over Student Relief from
the rain.

The rooters looked like a mixture of deep sea
fishermen, a gathering of the K. K. Klan, and a
bunch of musk rats. I’m still wondering what the
girl who left one shoe and rubber in the bog as
she entered the stadium told her escort when she
got him alone —or the one who sat down in the
puddle.

As to the game. Oh, boy! The bands arrived
in their nice sweaters and white “ducks.” Then
the players accompanied by bales of towels. Every
few minutes time was called and th all had a

*
i

 

“Larry Mac” at the Yale-Harvard

 

 

Henry Borden, B. A., Dal Football Manager, 1923.

LS EN Me

 

wash in the pond and dried themselves on a towel.
I admired some of the acrobatic or aquatic stunts
staged, and thought of Kennie Beaton in the
Jumping pit at New Glasgow. While all the players were good one Yale chap hung up a record
of a 80 yard skid—a nose dive and a triple “tail
spin.” The coaches dug him out. Of course, Harvard lost; but how could she win when Yale sent
“Ducky” Pond for a touch down, with “A. Neale”
supporting him. Nothing but a fish could hope
to emulate such a combination, and Harvard had
none.

Notwithstanding the rain, there were some remarkably fine things done, notably, Mallory of
Yale kicking»two field goals while standing ankle
deep in water, the fine punting of the backs, and
the general good humor and gameness of both
teams and spectators. The cheering was excellent, the songs and music of the bands “melling.”

Of course Yale went wild. It was the first touch
down for them in the stadium since 1907. In the
gathering gloom at the end of the game they staged
their snake dance on a field that resembled a bog,
and after tossing their hats over the goal posts removed them bodily and led by “blue fire,” they
hore them in triumph through Cambridge into Boston. No doubt in years to come Yale graduates
will bequeath to their children jagged chunks of
wood and tell them of the glorious day on which
they beat Harvard 13—0 and bore off her goal
posts in triumph. I hope the habit of souvenir
hunting doesn’t grow, for imagine.the fate of the
poor spectator if all else is stripped and carried
away.

And now nothing remains to report except the
progress and funerals of those who caught pneumonia and kindred ills. As for me (and mine)
I'll take in the next big game “under similar conditions’—oh yes, but by radio. However, Thursday is Thanksgiving, so let me finish with a quotation from Weaver J.—[140 Iowa 236]:

“Indeed we think it a matter of common observation of which the courts may take notice, that
while the remainder of the year in our great
American institutions of learning may be religiously devoted to the study of football, the season
proper in which academic investigation gives place
to the applied science begins with the first frost
and ends very appropriately with the day of General Thanksgiving.” Amén. :

—LARRY MAC.

“WITH THE GIRLS IN GYM
WORK.

The basketball girls are working hard now, in
preparation for the coming season. The practices
on Tuesday at 5.30 and on Thursday at 7.30 are
well attended, and another hour, 8.30-4.30 on
Wednesday, has been added. Although four
members of last year’s team have ‘been lost, there
is a great deal of new material, and several newcomers are showing up very well. The class of
1923, Mount Allison University has presented a
cup for competition among the degree-conferring
colleges of the Maritime Provinees, and _ the
schedule for a league is now being drawn up. This
league will include more colleges than the present
one, in which only Acadia, Kings, and Dalhousie,
are cligible to compete. Probably the present
league will also continue to exist.

The gymnasium class is also large. Dumb-bell
and wand drills, free work, and tactics, form the
chief work of this class. A few girls are taking
lessons in mat work. Mr. Stirling intends to hold
a gymnastic exhibition at the end of the year, as
he did last year, and it is hoped that all the girls
who are interested in gym.’ work will come regularly. It is not too late to begin now,—next
Thursday night, 8.30-9.30.

The fencing class has a large attendance, and
badminton is very popular. Volley ball has a few
enthusiasts, and indoor’ baseball is played
occasionally.

ICE HOCKEY.

It is hoped that the Dalhousie girls will be able
to have an ice hockey team this year. Miss
Gertrude Mills was appointed manager at the
last meeting of the D.G.A.C. in the spring, and an
attempt will be made to arrange for the rink. All
girls who intend to play should attend the gym
classes to get in condition.

SWIMMING.

The girls’ swimming classes at the Y.M.C.A. are
well attended by the Dalhousie co-eds. Every
Tuesday and Thursday, from 10—2, the instructor
conducts classes in swimming and diving for the
girls.

On Saturday afternoon, November 25, the girls
of the C.G.I.T. conference were the guests of the
Dalhousie Girls’ Athletic Club for an hour of
games in the gymnasium at Studley. About two
hundred girls were present, and they were divided
into groups, each group playing games under the
leadership of one of the Dal girls. Speeches were
made by Miss Gass, and Miss Eva Mader, president of the D.G.A.C.

Law came out on the short end of a 20—0 score
at the hands of Dentistry in its first Interfaculty
Basketball contest. The game was fast, and more
exciting than the score would indicate.

 

Harry Langwith manager of the Varsity Basketball team is urging everybody out as candidates
for the City League team. We have won the
Football title, why not the Basketball?

The Swimming Téam of Dalhousie is now being
formed, and manager Barry Shaffner has arranged
practices at the Y.M.C.A. from 7—8 every Tuesday
and Thursday evening. Mermen are requested to
turn out.

  
   

8 ee ee ee a - - - —*

° * ' ba
Kliff's Krazy Kuts
Shirreff Hall—‘‘Can you guess my age?”’
Pine Hiller—‘‘How can 1? You don’t

look it.’’

 

Miss B—d—‘‘I want a muff.’’
Salesman—‘‘ What fur?”’
Miss B—‘‘ Why, to keep my hands warm,

of course!’’

 

Landlady—‘‘I do think a little canary
makes the place seem. homelike.’’

Crook Ho-m-ns-—‘‘ Rather, but I’d just as
soon have a little swallow.

PROBABLY READS ‘‘CAVIAR ’’
Prominent Dal girl went into the library
for something to read.
Librarian—‘‘Do you like Kipling?”’
D. G.—‘‘I don’t know, I never tried it.
How do you kipple?

Dear Kliff :-—

I am in distress, and I feel sure that you
are the one to help me, having had experience
yourself, Last night I escorted a young lady
home to Shirreff Hall, and forgetting myself,
kissed her on the doorstep. How. ean I
make amends?

Anriously,
CO. McIntosh.
Dear Charlie,—
Next time, try kissing her on the cheek.
—Kliff.

 

Tell your troubles to Kliff, he has none.

Tubby M-l-n-e—Do you think it is going to
hurt?

Archie—I don’t think so; I know it is.

VOLLEYBALL

 

A very popular game played by many of Dalhousie students at Studley gym. on Tuesday and
Friday evenings.

| Standing of Teams.
Won Last To-play

en: CHens "BO. iscesce vat ewers 4 0 3
meee Clans S6 i iiccrcva eins 38 1 3
oy MAOIOING var cae are sie’ 3 1 3
SE? cetere levees eae 2 1 4
Se a eee eee vee Te etme to 5
OIG a vceas GR e chee ea es 1 2 4
> ye) Pees eee 0 4 8

Feces Six to Sixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire for
ter athletic accomplishment are the —
ss who pick .

 

mee ee

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ROMPING MELODY.

A ROLLICKING,

 

Rehearsals for the Glee Club operetta are being
teinporarily suspended to make way for the Christmas exams. Until now, the cast and chorus, not
to mention the dancers, have been hard. at work
smoothing over rough spots and with each practice raising the show nearer to the high standard
which they expect to reach in thé final production.

The date for this has not been definitely set, but
it will be within the first two weeks after the
holidays. |

‘The operetta “The Maid and the Middy”
in many ways from that of last year, “The Yokohama Maid.” For one thing, it is not what is
called a “custome play.” The occasion is the annual regatta of the Lakeville Boat Club made unusually gay by the presence, as guests, of Captain
Dasher of the steamship “Dreadnaught” and a
nuinber of his middies.

Interesting things happen and after much delightful singing and dancing, all ends happily in a
rollicking sea tune, the grand finale, “Blow, Winds,
Blow.”

The east of characters is as follows:—

Billy, the Middy, attached to the “Dreadnaught”
Andreas Johansen
Dawson, a retired farmer...... Howard Hamilton
The Count, a Spanish Gentleman. .Ralph Dalgleish
a Master of vee) Lakeville Boat Club
—Carl Bethune
Fitz, of the House Committee, Lakeville Boat Club
—Gordon Graham
_— Dasher, in command of the “Dreadnaught”
—Basil Courtney
Bounder, champion oarsman of the Lakeville Boat

differs

Cb otitia agit vie Chester Sutherland
Young Slimson, also of the L.B.C., “The Great

TRUNOWR ec dihs va eweneodevandé Arthur Yuill
Valerie Vane, the maid ........+:.Emeline Paige

Mrs. Gaily,-an attractive widow....
Friends of Valerie:—

Frances Power

PA es 64 ah eB oi eics ons Vex d pt Clara Murray
SEO Eek seh med Oa Ly oh Carol Hawkins
yo ee ee Boa tai aaah Roberta Forbes

Anita, the mysterious cause of the trouble.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

7

+ A meeting of the Dalhousie Hockey Team was
held last week to organize for the coming year.
There are only five of last year’s team available,
namely Bates, Haslam, McKenna, Dunlop and
Hickey. :

Fabie Bates was elected to captain the Tigers
through the winter. The meeting was poorly
attended only three new players making an appearance, Bissett formerly of Kings, Wilson from
Glace Bay and Lewis the goalkeeper from Sydney.

The Dalhousie Skating Club held its first meeting
last week to determine where the students shall
skute this winter. The conditions which prevailed
at the Arena last year were unsatisfactory and an
attempt will be made to nemedy the defects. The
proposition of an outdoor rink will be put before
the students, and if the majority decide in favor
of it will be carried out. The location is on Robie
st., back of the Forrest Building. The new wellequipped Dartmouth rink is also to be considered
this year as a place to hold the skating sessions.
Representatives from the various faculties were
present including the following: Hon Pres. Prof. J.
Cameron, Pres.; W. C. Gass, Graham, Hickey, Law;

Cameron, Medicine; Dalgleish, “Dentistry; Ormond, |]

Peet aes Arts and Science, —

7 7 AST 7d, mer Porn = ar rsa ae 7. Se
LOT MERE ee ee ee eC
‘ e s ~ if * : <7

 

 

Meds Are Champion Footballers: .

By defeating Arts in a snappy game of football
on Nov.
for 1923. Both teams played as good a brand of
football as one could wish to see in an interfaculty
game. Wood, Johnstone and Dowell each secured
a touch for Medicine.

 

Proffitt made a pretty run passed to Butler who

secured thegast touch for the Arts’ men. None
of the tries were converted so when the whistle
blew the score stood 9—6 in favor of Medicine.

There is no reason for Medicine to feel ashamed
of her showing in football this year. Besides
providing a goodly number of the players on the
first and seeond teams, the Medical Faculty
proved itself superior to all other faculties in the
University. :

 

 

Finest Materials, Lining and

Trimmings with best workman
 

 

ships at reasonable prices.

 

 

Clayton & Sons

Tailors & Clothiers

 

DALHOUSIE

Call on us for your light
Lunches, Private Parties and
Dances.

THISTLE CAFE

Opp. Imperial Theatre

 

Phone S4745
BARRINGTON ST.

 

es

NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY

Three Phones

 
 

oh
Focal Bee Toy

PF hak ¥ ee a 5 i a
bf a a

se

16, Medicine won the Interfaculty series.

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
|
|
|
|

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
   
 
 
    
 

     

4

    
     
  

 
 
   

        
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
