 
 

    

  

oh

YE:

ah
P ss

TE ERT A mg

i = a ies \yh Poe ee 8 io ‘. w
¥. 7 T ’ Ad

a it»
t Py fies ,

 

VOL. LY.

 

 

The Dalhousie. Gazette

Founded 1869
Issued Weekly - - - - One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - - - «+ « + J, GORDON FOGO
' Associate Editors
Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Amy McKean
so Juanita O’Connor OD. C. oun

 

  

A. Creighton, BA. RR. Dalgleish.

P. M, Cassidy .
Sports Editor - - - - - H. E. Read, B. A.
Special Reporters
A. C. Milner — D. RB. Webster, B.A.
Overseas Correspondent - - J. A. Dunlop, B.A.

Staff Artists

Miss Rose Leslie C. W. Currie

_ BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.
129 Spring Garden Road

subscriptions and advertising accounts payabt te 1s Bekiness Mane

wie

| 5 Me DiI R Is L
‘ ates pid Ase Ph # » = 4 >

anager.

 

As the end of the term 1922-23 rapaya date ade: tink .
ously of the immediate future.

are, however, in addition to the

* dennnel nightmare’’ of spring examini pttons, . some other matters which deserve careful consideration, The annual elections of executive members of
: for the Students’ Coun
 

ee aa? Pers

ve v"
i Elser ones

eae ap cat

 

  

  
 

Pty

ky

  

eae)
é not

mar tod cer
“58 ‘

117 asic

FOUNDED 1869

nae 346. oo

 

this is an excellent publication and must
entail a great deal of work on the part of
the staff. We should, however, like to see
the students given a chance to express
their latent talénts in verse and story.’’
This pertinent comment is quoted by the
King’s College Record and recently the
Acadian Athenaeum carried a brief note
along similar lines, Of course, there is a
ready reply to such a suggestion. The
chief reason why the Dalhousie Gazette
shows a tendency to become somewhat
more of a weekly newspaper that a literary journal is because The Gazette serves
at least four colleges. The students of
any one of these institutions, which, although all part of the one university, are
to a great extent separate entities, are
unfamiliar with the events and incidents which occur in the other faculties. The Gazette attempts to keep
them informed.

It is, however, not the policy of this
paper to devote all the available space

to news items. The suggestions of our
‘contemporaries might well provide food

for thought for the student of literary inclination. ‘That the students do
not have an opportunity to express
“their latent talents in verse and
story’’ is not due to the efforts of any
ambitious young newspaper men_ but
rather to the apathy of those students
who certainly possess the potential
ability.

‘,

 

We welcome to Nova Scotia President Patterson of Acadia University

. who was inaugurated last week as suc. eessor to Dr.-G, B. Cutten. Our best
it oe for ne lt

 
 

y him as
finds — confront with the
al oblems with which

- aT re ‘ vv S * a rE . bbe
. > 7 ' , ,

ew 4 . * t

ital a i oe NO Te Lil

been prominent in wr
life, social and industria de can aoe | 3

of this age has

 

azelte |

a

DISTINGUISHED VISITOR.

Since the definite announcement of
last week’s Gazette concerning the visit
of Dr. Herbert Gray, the great student
leader from the Universities of the Old
Land, considerable curiosity has been
aroused amongst those to whom Dr,
Gray is as yet a stranger, as to his
identity and the significance of his-visit.

Some have questioned, Who is he?
The answer need not be copied from
notices in the press. much more satisfaction will be obtained by asking any
one of the thirty or so of Dalhousie’s
delegates to the famous National Student Conference. Very many of them
pronounce Dr. Gray as ‘the greatest
man whom they have ever been privileged to meet.’’

Others have asked. Where does he
come from? Originally frem Scotland,
and a Scottish University—KEdinburgh ;
in a wider sense he comes representing
the student-life of all Great, Britain,
More immediately he comes from the
National Conference, where he was undoubtedly the outstanding personality.
‘He comes directly to Dalhousie from a
tour of all the leading Canadian Uni
No, 7

 

versities—McGill, Toronto, Queens, Al-—

berta, Saskatchewan. Manitoba and
British Columbia—which has indeed

been, for him, a triumph and for Cana
dian students, in their own words ‘a

revelation’’,

Still others ask What has he done ? "
Rather ask, what may he not have

done? For more than a score of years
(from student days a leader) he has —
life, ¢hurch ©

work—as an able writer and a man absolutely fearless in thought and action. ©
It can be no exaggertion to say that Dr.
Gray
good untold thousands of human lives. »

=

the war Dr. Gray served for —

Le months in France. Since |
war he has been engaged in the B

_»~esegzte

has tremendously influenced for ;

a

  
 
   

__ as he is now ‘in the Canadian —— . 4
Siege” A
aly Why is. he coming f This time
Mu- answer is: Ree our, 7 al:
_housie’s _

B22 2 ee

‘ a ne ty ws ey?
a eee

riche

    
   
     

=

oe

en
IO oe

- >

rr >
7 i tee a cana ee =

 
  
  
   
    
  
 

*

 
    
 
 

  

ee:

       
 
     
   
 
 
 

       
   
     
   
 
 

   
 
   
   
    
  
ae rs) eer = eS ji! om : i 7 ‘ ene ae ee pt. oh me , a Te : ' P a a : — Bs , 3 a3 ys eh Bs a r a 4 aie a ' Sr a A
meer ¥ : al . ie she . ‘ s ap. ss Vary ees re Ne a “a a on ~ a 7 " er p ) ity f i" a —) i ¥ ’ , . a t a at rs - “ 7" a é vay ny ep = See = eS os PY: ay ae ae a Le ‘en
’ é 4 , : j é ; . i ; Me be ep oe” ”~ a ‘Fe ie " rl toes ; 3 j a ae Ihe a a mt ar ff Ys “< ~~ ae ne 4 iF "SS ae ta can i “ala het a ix 12 34 28 ee ae a 2
: % "  § B r in se , oF | -. . a? 4 So ren : Si ae us bio: ‘a See Meg ee — Ss) Ty ; Fie ag
7 . A ty * vi ' fee & *F - ae Tae . al ’ gi j we ty '« - - a3 . . > 7
4 See SSS SSS ne
if
h f h int |
: . ; .
I" . ther unfortunate, from the viewpolm
; ,

CAMBRIDGE, Mass.—After reading a recent article from Oxford by a
former Dalhousian, now resident there,
the writer thought that a few words
about Harvard might not come amiss to
the readers of The Gazette, considering the fact that there are quite a number of Dal men here. Hence the following.

It was with some degree of surprise
that we read that there is little or no
cheering at the English football games.
Noise is predominant at the American
college games. Numerous cheer leaders,

clad in the colors of their respective
colleges, run up and down in front of a
howling mob of from 50,000 to 55,000
spectators, directing their vocal efforts
in some attempt to gain unison out of
the volume of sound that proceeds from
the above-mentioned 50,000 throats;
| yes, ‘the ladies cheer with the gentlemen.
! While Harvard has not the historic
. associations of the old English institutions, it nevertheless possesses' an im‘ posing array of buildings. The new
: Widener Memorial Library, erected at
| the cost of $1,000,000, is perhaps the
finest specimen of architecture of which
the University can boast. 3,000,000
volumes are contained within its walls;
the interior is done in marble, and the
edifice is three stories in height. It
was built in memory of Harry Elkins
Widener, a former Harvard man who
| lost his life in the sinking of the Titanic
; in 1913, and ‘thus is about the most recent of the college buildings.
There are about twenty-five build,ings of various ages and sizes in the

 
  
   
       
      
   

scattered through Cambridge; the total
registration this year was some 6,000.
‘ b Despite the interest taken in —
_. ball and other college sports,
work is the predominant interest. And
_ there is plenty of that. Every effort is
= to keep a chose check on the indiual men and any lack in scholastic
effort is certain to bring down the wrath
the ‘‘powers that be’’ on the head of
tthe offender. Not knowing very much,
_ if anything, about the numerous departra - ments, it is only possible to speak of
ah t PB that with which your correspondent has
Nea, ¢ ne penne eae department of

‘The first thing that strikes the new& a ~ omer is the apparent predominance of
ny BS philology in the above-mentioned de___ partment. The second is the great im‘4 A portance attached to the old writers—
aie English, Gothic, Old French and
ee or canoe tn ts detriment of such
ye ae ee example. This year it is im
wn

college yard itself and numerous others |

  
 
  

Nineteenth cen‘men as in the nineteenth cen- |}
soca

of the would-be student of nineteenth
century literature, that more is not
made of this period; instead of that,
however, the stress is laid upon the ancients, and the candidate finds it necessary to completely readjust his ideas to
comply with the conditions, The philosophy is not confined to a single year;
it is the fly in the ointment all the way
through. The work done is very thorough, however, but it is that of 700 vears
back rather than today. However, lest
I be condemned to the nether regions
for criticising my betters, I hasten on.

On arrival there is a considerable
amount of red-tape to be gone through.
Innumerable papers must be filled out,
trips made to various buildings of the
university, and at the end of it all, one
is usually completely worn out, and the
proud possessor of many colored bits
of pasteboard setting forth that Mr. soand-so ‘is a member of this and that organization, class or club. Your first
lectures leave you in a rather bewildered condition with a long list of reading
to be done and often but a vague notion
of how to go about doing it. Then after
these little minor matters are cleared
up you begin to work in earnest. And
you most certainly do work. The Library is opened every night until 10.30
and also on Sunday afternoon and evening—with the exception of the delivery
desk, which closes every evening at 5.30
and is not opened at all on Sunday. I
am afraid that I have already taken up
too much space with this preliminary
preamble and will cease here for the

present,
Cc. F. BOWES, M. A. ’22.

NOTICE.

A meeting of all the New Brunswick students at Dalhousie will be held
in the Munro Room, Friday evening, at
7.30. The matter of aranging a social
evening will be discussed.

 

NOTICE.

will be an important meeting of the

There
whole Gazette staff in the Munro Room,
day, February 22nd, at 12.15 p.m.

     
    
  
      
 
 
    
  
    
      
   
  
 
  
 

LIMITED
PUBLISHERS, STATIONERS
AND MANUFACTURERS OF
LOOSE LEAF OUTFITS.

 

    
     
   

A. & W. MacKinlay

 

YOUR DRUGGISTS

MACLEOD & BALCOM

LIMITED
SOUTH END PHARMACY
Morris Street.

WEST END PHARMACY
Spring Garden Road,

NORTH" END PHARMACY

Young Street...

LORNE PHARMACY

Agricola Street.

OXFORD PHARMACY
Quinpool Road.

“Five Places of Safety”

NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
PHONE LORNE 53

y

Cut Flewers Bouquets
and all Floral Work

Jensen & Mills Co., Ltd.

| Changed from

Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd.
TWO STORES

26 Spring Garden Road
119 Young Street

GENERAL DRY GOODS
READY TO WEAR

MILLINERY and CUSTOM TAILORING.
Correct Styles, Lowest. Prices.

   
  
  
 
  
  

 

aay “3 eS ree ax Ae et we Pre rs ”
; AER: a ae Ls err oe ae eee

a
Mee Sp Nate tee ga eas

 

Pine Hill Post

Such a disgraceful affair. Our red
headed female theologue invaded the
sanctity of Pine Hill having as her objective room 4. Her purpose she maintained was in keeping with her future
calling of medical missionary. However, fortune was against her, and,
after many devious wanderings, deserted by her guide she finally collapsed in
the arms of Mrs. Marsters, who saw her
safely out. While her errand of mercy
was frustrated she has given an example of unparalleled courage that it
would be most unwise for any other girl
to emulate.

We enjoyed the Birchdale entertainment at Glee Club very much, but the
boys all declare they can go one better.
Already Howard Hamilton and Dalgleish are hard at work at the task. Some
of the rooms at Pine Hill are small
but if the plans carry we may be able
to find one large enough to hold the

cup,

Bill McOdrum has the measles and
much to his disgust he was taken to the
hospital on the lower floor. He couldn’t
stand it, so one night he crawled out of
bed and: back to his faithful ‘‘wife’’ on
the top floor. However George proved
a broken reed and marched poor Bill
back to the hospital.

It’s no use for Earle Green to try
and escape from the women. Why the
other night after rink he actually tried
to run away but was pursued by the
fleet-footed prairie maiden and after a
thrilling chase was finally overtaken
and captured. Better give it up, Karle,
you might do a great deal worse, you
know.

 

COMMERCE CLEARINGS.

A very enjoyable social evening was
spent recently at the dance given by
and Mrs, Wallace at their home

ord street for the students in

Law and some other youn

friends. rs. Wallace made an idea
hostess and every student was made to
- Fg aemN at home. The house

[colwet, Brothers

LIMITED ano

453-487 BARRINGTON STREET
128 YOUNG STREET

 

  

 

    
  
     
   
  
 
 
    
 
       
 
 
  

HATS — oe

 

    

eee

      
  
 
  

  
  

r 8. COLWELL. ee eeee eb eeeee

: tee eteneeatenees

 

TO-NIGHT.

GIRLS’ DEBATING TRIALS.

Munroe Room, Wednesday, Feb.
21, 8 p. m,

Affirmative— Amy G. McKean
(leader), Clara Murray, May
Linton.

Negative—Juanita O’Connor (leader), Evelyn Killam, Marguerite
MacKay.

.. Subject—Resolved that in the
interests of industrial peace in
Canada, voluntary methods of arbitration, conciliation and mediation

are preferable to any form of compulsory legislation.

N. B.—The Industrial Disputes
Act Investigation Act, 1907, is to
regarded as a form of compulsory
legislation in its relation to public
utilities.

The team that will represent
Dalhousie in the Intercollegiate
contest with the co-eds of Acadia
will uphold the affirmative of the
resolution.

COME.ONE, COME ALL.

was artistically decorated with carnations and jonquils. The evening sped
swiftly away to the entrancing strains
of the music until it was time to turn
homeward and prepare the commercial
problems for the morrow. Commerce
has happy recollections of what was one
of the most jolly social affairs of the
year.

NOTICE.

The election of members to the coun
cil of the students for the team 1923-24

will be held Tuesday, March 6th. The

revised representation of each faculty
will be as follows:

Arts and Science—Representation as
determined by -the constitution of
that society.

Law—Four members.

- Medicine—Nine members.

Dentistry—Three members.
Nominations of representatives must
be placed in the hands of the Secretary
of the present Council one full week
before election day and must in number
be at least one and one-half times as
great as the number of representatives
to be elected. |
| (Sgd.) SECRETARY,
1 of the Students.

 

“dollar helps us to produce :

in DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 
  

*

:
a ES

—— i ee

University Hall

With Borden’s win over Dinty
Moore, the billiard tournament was
brought to an end. At noon hour on

Tuesday Dr. Dawson presented the

prizes. The two finalists each got one
hundred cigarettes, the winner getting
his name on the shield. . ,

Probably there will be one more
tournament before spring, as the idea is
to have three names on each shield. As
you will remember, Hull won the first
tournament of the year; and he certainly deserved it. There is one other
player whose name should be on the
shield, and that is Eddie Bayer. Eddie,
who is one of the scratch men, always
seems to have hard luck. Last year he
got into the finals, but was put out by |
Poirier.

Speaking of Eddie, he had another
one of those chicken feeds the other
night, As there was no one there from
the south, there was just enough chicken
to go around.

On the same evening a very select
hazing party was staged in honor of
Eddie Cameron’s Freddy. Apparently
water is wet whoever throws it, for the

local recipient of the majority of incom
ing phone calls didn’t come so worse.
Through an oversight on the part of
some one, one of the best numbers was

omitted from the Glee Club entertain
ment. The new song, ‘‘Give Me a Kiss,
You’re From Truro’’, made its first
appearance later on ‘in the evening. |
There is no doubt about its popularity,
for the air is. on every one ’s lips at
present. In its origin the song was a
duet, that is, it required two people.
Quite a few took the second part on
Monday night whether they were from
Truro or not.

Since Christmas, auction bridge has i
become a very popular game at the :
residence, Archie, the barometer of in- 4
door pastimes, has taken it up, so that ¥
it is certain to have a good season.
Jim Graham, although he doesn’t play
the game, is quite willing to explain any
of the principles to beginners who are
in earnest, and. mean to make a living
by the game. A. C. M.

‘UNIVERSITY HALL |

MEN’S RESIDENCE

      
     
     
    
  
  
  
    
  
 

   
  
  
    
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
    

     
  
 

    
    

    
      
   
 
  
     
     
   
 
  
   
  

   
    
    
  
    
 

| There are still a few good rooms
available for students. Rate
$8.75 per week. Application} —
should be made immediately to | -_
the Manager, Mr. W. Nisbet, or}
to any_of the members of the}
Reaidence or r House Commutinien ie

  

     
GLEE AND DRAMATIC CLUB IN

THE DALHOUSIE

i ; 4;
é

 

 

 

* ae
: , =.) « a7

my

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

il

Cast of Characters

Front Row—Hugh MacKay, Carol Hawkins

(vice-pres.) Clara Murray, Beryl Sims, An
dreas Johanson, Max McOdrum, Gladys Billman, Madeline Mader, Gordon Graham, Milne
Blanchard, Ralph Dalgleish, Marion Clark,
Rita Farrar, John Thurrott.

Second Row—Mr, Oak, Catherine Inglis,

Catherine Vickery, Jean Shaw, Marjorie Kennedy, Isobel MacDonald, Marion Elliott, Helen
Wilson, Basil Courtney, Helene Sanford,

Kathleen Smith, Anna MacNeil, Edith Lynch,

Third Row—Gerald Misener, Mr. Coward, Mr.
Merritt, Mr. Mowat, Evelyn Paige, Mr,
Goudge, John Shaw, Edith MeNeill, Stan.
Hillis, Ian Forsyth, Winslow Gates, D, F.
MeDonald, Chas, Beckwith, J. A. Forbes,

Back Row—Sid. Gilchrist, Mr. Yuill, Mrs.

G,. Fred Pearson (Hon. Pres, and Musical Di
rector) Carl P, Bethune (Pres. and Stage
Director) Henry DeWolfe, Lockhart Travis,
Wm. Fultz.

on

afl oi) SA

Sho wl

ace ae

nee

in.

“SCOTCH—BLACK and WHITE”

On Monday evening, February 12th,
University Hall presented their entertainment in the series of competitive
performances being held by the Glee
Club. Both Delta Gamma and Pine Hill
have already presented their wares,
but as the competition was not commenced until after Pine Hill had performed, the boys from Lands’ End will
have another opportunity.

Monday evening the stage was set
for a regular minstrel show, favoring
. slightly, however, of the more modern
burlesque. Grouped at the back of the
stage was the chorus, a study in black
and white, which formed a background
for the various numbers.

The first number was an orchestra
selection, which was followed by the
opening chorus, the solo parts being
taken by Messrs. Bennett, Baxter and
Bruce.

Dancing was a very prominent part
_of the program. But of course you
would expect that—dancing being our
only vice you know. The first to whirl
to the time of Woodill’s syncopation,
were Thompson and Smith. Their
fancy dance, with a barn dance for an
encore, was greatly appreciated. The
step-dancing competition btween Alec.
Guthro and Kelly McLean was won by
 Quthro. When Alex got down to his
- fifth vest, the pianist gave out, but like
ia

the brook, Alex was apparently going
on forever. :

One of ‘the treats of the evening was
Hunter Gardner’s vampire dance.
Hunter has improved vastly since his
debut at the Alumni Dinner, and he was
certainly the envy of all the girls on
Monday night.

Among the musical numbers ‘ was
Thurrott’s violin solo ‘‘Come Back old
Pal’’ from the new Dumbells Revue.
Messrs, Beaton Peters, Cameron and
Bruce, the New Birchdale Quartette,
also gave several numbers.

Mr. Stirling’s tumbling and the DeWolfe-Cameron dialogue were very
popular with the audience.

Between ‘the numbers Gordon Fogo
and Charlie Baxter delivered a rapidfire patter, which kept everything running smoothly.

Too much cannot be said about Dr.
Cameron’s part in the show. He was
not visible, but as librettist, musical and
stage director, electrician and commander-in-chief, the success of the per
formance was due largely to his efforts.
A. C. M.

THE COLLEGE “JAY”
We have heard of the “Jay Driver’
and the ‘‘Jay Walker’’, and now we
find we have a far worse offender who

 

can be aptly termed the College Jay.

How better could the figurative meaning

be applied than to the ‘‘impertinent
chatterers’’ who throughout every lecture neither give the others a chance
to hear or the professor a fair chance
to speak, We refer to those who abilities are such that they don’t have to
pay attention; or more often don’t care
to listen to what is being said, and rather than give their neighbors (who
are less fortunate—in not having some
one’s notes from the year before) the
benefit of the lecture, keep up a continued monotone throughout the hour. It

is invariably our same friends who

keep their feet poised in mid-air awaiting the slightest irregularity as an excuse for a loud outburst of tramping,
and when there is a really good joke
told they must have a few extra thumps
after their less appreciative classmates
have seen the point. If some of our
bright friends could be induced to attempt some work while someone else
furnished their line of entertainment
perhaps they would see the childishness of their chatter and the folly of
attempting noisy demonstrations for
minor occurrences, such as a misconstrued phrase of the professor or an unfortunate last arrival.
REY.

 

Prof,—Late again,

Fresh—Not a word, Prof.; so am I—Yale Re

I. 0. D. E. COMPETITION.

In order to encourage Canadian literature the Imperial Daughters of the
Empire is offering two prizes; the first
of the value of $200.00, for the best
short story, the second of the value of
$100.00 for the best one-act play. These
prizes will be offered annually for ten
years. The conditions under which
they will be awarded this year are as
follows :

THE SHORT STORY.

1. It must not have been published
before being submitted in this comipetition. ;

2. It must not contain less than two
thousand words nor more than six thousand.

3. It must be typewritten on paper
of letter size (814 x 11 inches) and written on one side of the paper only.

4. It must be sent flat, not folded or
rolled, have the author’s ‘‘nom de
plume’’, but not his or her real name,
on the title page, be registered and mailed to the National Educational Secretary, I1.0.D.E., 238 Bloor St. EH. Toronto.

5. A sealed envelope with the
‘‘nom de plume’’ printed or written
clearly upon it, and the author’s name
within it, must accompany the manuseript. )

| 6, The manuscript must be submitted on or before April 1, 1923.

 

7. The writer must be a British
subject.

8. The copyright of the story adjudged the best is to be vested in the
Imperial Order Daughters of the Kmpire, with power to arrange for its
publication in magazine or in book form
or in both.

THE PLAY.

1.’ It must be a one-act play.

2. Its presentation on the stage
should occupy not less than twenty minutes nor more than thirty minutes.

3. It must not have been published
before being submitted in this competition.

Conditions 3. 4, 5, 6 and 7 for the
Short Story apply also for The Play.

Names of the judges selected by the
members of the Canadian Authors’ Association will be announced at a later
date.

DISTINGUISHED VISITOR.
(Continued from Page 1)

Great and famous men have come
and gone, but truly now ‘‘the best is
yet to be’. Herbert Gray is a student’s
man and comes to talk and meet with
Dalhousie’s students as the students
guest. Known, respected and loved by
many of the men who constitute ‘‘the
powers that be’’ in City, Church and
College, Dr. Gray is yet sponsored on

this occasion at least solely by the student body of our University.

Don’t be satisfied with hearing him
lecture—make it a point to meet him
personally. This is a special request of
Dr. Gray’s.

 

Rhyming Remarks

(By Sandy P. Roe)

HAZING,

I often wonder, when I think of dear
old freshman days, just where and why,
and how, and when, they started first
to haze each new supply of raw recruits
to intellectual ranks—I wonder when
they first began to play such funny
pranks. I’ve searched big histories
through and through to try to find such
things, but all I found was tales of wars
and scandal ‘bout old kings—with when
they lived—and when they died; how
many men they killed—O well, you
know the foolish facts with which such
books are filled. I’ve searched in vain
to find acounts of ancient hazing parties, but we can almost picture how they
overcame the ‘‘Smarties’’.

You know that Freshmen are comvelled, sometimes, to carry books belonging to a lordly soph—I’m sure it’s
done for looks. But in the dim and distant past, in Babylonian time, it must
have been an awful job. It would be

(Continued on page 8)

 

ad
a.

>, >

7- ee FZ
 

provisions of the
tis ; a member of the Cabinet that the

 

are ae
ea"

GOVERNMENT SUSTAINED

Labor Improvement Bil Passes the
House.

The Liberal Administration was sustained at the second sitting of the
Mock Parliament last Thursday evening when the Improvement Bill, sponsored by the Minister of Labor (J. G.
Hackett) and J. F. Davidson, M. P.
(Mount Hope), was carried on a straight
party vote, the Liberals supporting the
measure, the Progressives opposing it
and the Conservatives declining to vote.

The only other measure debated was the

Finance Bill, brought down by the Minister of Finance, (Hon. A. M. Matheson (Montreal), and seconded by J.
Gordon Fogo (Cape Breton ‘Over’’),
Minister of External Affairs. After
the two members of the Government
had spoken the debate was adjourned till
Monday evening.

There were many pleasing features
of the Labor Improvement Bill and
and while it afforded many good laughs
for the members and the large gallery
that was on hand for the occasion there
are several sections worthy of serious
consideration. Section 4 of the bill
read ‘The session shall be divided into
two semesters of equal duration, in each
of which half the subjects for the year
shall be taught and all students shall be
examined in all the, subjects so taught
at the end of each semester’’. Other
colleges work on this system and there
is much to be said in its favor. ,

The Minister of Labor was in fine
form and quoting poetry at random and
with facility entertained his auditors to
one of the most creditable efforts of the
session. He was interrupted frequently
by members of the opposition and was

asked to define many of the words used

in the bill. Mr, Davison, to whom goes
a large measure of credit for the introduction of the bill, carefully explained
many of the sections and incidentally
paid tribute to the moral character and
the fitness to legislate enjoyed by the
member from Victoria.

H,. M. Ferguson, member from the

Coal Bins, — on behalf of the Opposition and

essed in ee for purpose, made a forceful tirade; on the
rrovial bill. It was intimated

  

   
 

same speech was delivered at Mader’s
but the member from the Coal Bins was

 

 

address. It was absolutely insnsib Mr. Dalhousie that

Ce an SON eee Le Pe eee Cebeee OA e e ee ewrh emma Fe ,
| aN En Re cs ee, (AG Cm

a ee OPN el: me
cn tg estan ge

Be ia6d |S. Die be
2 Aj ‘

 

 

the Hon. member, and it is horrible to
think that a Chaplain would descend to
such depths’”’, stated the member, with
emphasis.

Clyde Harris (Rockhead), and Ray
Gushue (Cape Cod), were the Progressive speakers and made notable contributions.. The former is one of the
‘horny hands of toil’? and characterized the bill as ‘‘false, frivolous and vexiatious’’. He moved an amendment to
the effect that a five-hour day be recog
nized, that cushions be provided and |

that typewritten notes be provided by
all professors.. The member of Cape
Cod made a very favorable impression
on his first speech and advanced strong
reasons for the defeat of the measure’’.
‘‘ James K.” closed the debate and the
vote was taken.

The Minister of Finance merely read
the ‘‘Budget’’ for the information of
the house and reserved any remarks till
the close of the debate. J. G. Fogo, in
seconding the measure, proved himself
a re-incarnated ‘‘Mark Twain’’ and he
performed well in his fiduciary capacity.
He pleaded earnestly for the smoking
rights of the students and denounced in
no uncertain manner all over-holding
professors who would tread on the ancient rights of the law students. His
explanation of the use of the word ‘‘retreat’? was especially apt and the picture which he drew of tthe two youthful
students was extremely touching. The
claims of vacuum cleaners took some of
the honorable gentleman’s time and one
would have thought he was an agent for
“Bureka’, Like the other members he

had his quota of poety and produced it

with telling effect. A ‘glance at, the
countenances of more than one of ‘the
Conservative members convinced ‘‘ Hansard’’ that they had turned Progressive
and become red.

N. A. M. McKenzie, from parts unknown, representing a
criticised the bill and offered sever

suggestions for its improvement. He —

desired a pension for the ‘‘Admiral’’
and advocated larger bonus for librari

   

=
' PY ee
é : ies - :
F 4 ape, a :
ie x ng “. \ ‘dl Bl : ‘ : Ye "* er oa wr rr :
‘

a ee

rty of one
ae

ans.
On motion of the Premier debate on

the Finance bill was adjourned, Speaker

R. M. Fielding had things under excel
lent control and the sitting was carried
on with the utmost of decorum and order. It was expected that the appear
anee of several red eravats would tie
things up but nothing untoward occurred.

C. 8. R.

J. LEARY
THE CLEANER
Cor. Argyle and Sackville Sts.

Economize in your Pressing by buying a
Strip of Four Tickets for $2.00.

| Each ticket entitles you to have a Suit or
| Overcoat Sponged and Pressed.

Our Regular Rate is 75c a Suit.

|| WE ALSO DO DYEING, DRY-CLEANING,
| REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.

Phone Sack. 2054

   
     
       
     
   
       

Economy = |

THOSE who keep
their securities and
other valuables at
home, rather than
place them under
the protection afforded by our Safety Deposit Boxes,
are running great —
risks of total loss
by fire or theft.

eo
|| Expensive

al Wins From St. F. X.
In Overtime Game.

Dalhousie’s Intercollegiate Hockey
Team won its first League fixture played this season in a game that went twenty minutes overtime at Antigonish last
Thursday night. The play was fast and
clean, and replete with both combination
and individual efforts of a spectacular
nature.

Lee Fluck scored first for the
Tigers, and Hi Brown, the star St. F. X.
forward, described by some of the Dalhousians who saw the game as the ‘‘ best
stickhandler we have seen in action this
year,’’ soon evened matters. Then Mont
Haslam made it two for Dal, only to have
the score tied again by Brown on a pretty wing shot.

The second period was lightning
fast, with Brown and Beaton starting
off the scoring with a fine show of combination. Bricky Dunn made it three
all and Fluck put the Gold and Black a

int in the lead. Then Brown went
seg for an equaliser that was soon
overcome by Morrison’s timely shot
from ‘a mix-up, in front of the Blue and
White goal.

Seore, Dal 5; St. I’. X., 4.

Brown again tied the score just two
and a half minutes after the third
period began, and so it remained until
the end, in spite of brilliant and desperate efforts to score, mostly individual,
by both sextettes. Hi Brown was undoubtedly the outstanding player during this period.

It was. not until the last of the four
extra five minute periods that Bricky
Dunn won the game for Dalhousie with
two goals shot. in quick succession,
Final score, Dal 7; St. F. X., 5.

~ Line-up :— ‘

St. F, X—GQoal, Ryan; Defence, W.
MacDonald, R. 8S. MacDonald; For
: “ae bik ‘ey “
Including Spalding’s

   
 

 

wards, Beaton, McNeil, Brown; Spares,
Martin, Hamon, Sullivan.
Dauhouste—Goal, Maclsaac;  Defence, Fluck, Dunlop; Forwards, Haslam, Dunn, Morrison; Spares, Hickey,
Glenister.
Referee—Currie of New Glasgow.

'Nore—St. F. X, has protested this game, questioning Dunn’s eligibility to play under the Intercollegiate rules.

Dal’s basketball team will play that of Mt, A.
on Thursday evening, Feb. 22, at Sackville, and will
meet the U. N. B. five at Fredericton the following
night. The Dal personnel had not been decided when
the Gazette went to press,

Wanderers Take Fast Game.

In a very fast, and somewhat rough
game, the Wanderers won over Dalhousie last Tuesday night at the Arena by
a score of 4 to 2, and placed the Tigers
definitely in third position in the City
Hockey League standing for the 19221923 season.

Although the Red and Black hockeyists had the best of the play for the
first two periods, the Tigers came back
strong and individually outplayed their
opponents in the last. However, the
varsity boys lacked the ever essential
co-operation and were decidedly wild in
their shooting. Thus the Dal side of
the seore column failed to register a
rise.

Fabie Bates was undoubtedly the
star forward of the evening, and Allan
Dunlop played a decidedly effective
game on the Tiger defence. Art Lilly,
on the Wanderers’ defence, was excellent. McKenna gave a splendid exhibition of stickhandling and was right in
the thick of operations all the time,

The first period went to the Wanderers, 2-1. Shortly after the start of
the second period, McKenna and Bates
combined, beat the Red and Black de
| fence, and Dunn seored on the rebound
| from Bates’ shot, to tie the score. Ar_ thur soon followed up a lone rush with
| a long deceiving shot that passed the
/ “Duke’’, and his team was ahead again.

Dalhousie drove hard in the third

} ee but could not score, and with

ates in the cage suffering his only
penalty of the year, the Red Shirts add
: ed another tally.

6 fense, Lilly,

Lane, Hunter, Beazley, T. Lane, Cahill,

Line-up :
Wanderers—Goal, Edwards; De
    

Arthur; Forwards, F. —

 
 
  

Arts Are Interfaculty

Champions.

The Legal aspirants for the interfaculty basket-ball championship met
defeat at the hands of Bill MacOdrum’s
Artsmen by the narrowest of margins,
11-10 ,on Saturday afternoon in the Dal
Gym.

Gushue starred for Law, securing
eight points of the total ten. Hewat and
Harrison secured Arts’ tally of eleven.
MacColl, on the Law defence furnished
the best exhibition of guarding seen in
the League this season.

Lineup :—

Law.—MaceColl;
Harris; Gerret.

Gibson; Gushue;

Frame; RichardHarrison; McDonald;

Arts.—Clouston ;
son; Hewat,
Swan; Horne,

COLLEGE TEAM LOSES
TO ACADTA.

Dalhousie’s basketball team were
beaten in the Acadia Gymnasium, Wolfville on Friday night, February 16th.
Score 26-20,

Reports of the trip emphasize delay
in railway travel and speak very highly of the treatment accorded the Dal

team by the Acadia men.

The Line-up :—

Acadia—Robinson; Brown; Chipman; MacCready; Rhodenizer; Wigmore,

Dalhousie—Wilson; Myir; Mader;

Grant; MacOdrum; Coster; MacDonald.
Referee:—Mr. Cotter.

 

Dunlop, Haslam; Forwards, Bates, MeKenna, Dunn, Morrison, Hickey.

Dalhousie Headquarters for
Sportine
We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at 40 Sackville Street. We can
supply you with everything for Sport
Life. Also Pocket Knives, Razors,

We Stock Dalhousie Jerseys
and Stockings.

‘eh ya

 

 

 

 

 

     
  
 

i

    
   
  
  
   

  

 

RAZZBERRIES
By I. Pickem

Doull—‘Oh ! Was that you yelling ? I thought
that was just somebody I had run over”,

 

He—“Did you have any difficulty with your
French in Paris ?”
She—‘No—but the French people did.”

 

Friend of proud father of graduate who had
just been awarded a B. A.—“I suppose Don will
be looking for a Ph.D. next ?”

Proud Father—“No, he won’t.

ing for a J. O, B”

He will be look
 

Bridget—“There’s a fishman at the door mum,
with a parcel marked C, 0, D.”

Mrs, Newlywed—“How stupid of them,
them ‘to send salmon,”

I told

 

Debater in English 1A—‘Mr. Chairman and Fellow Students. I won’t call you ladies and gentlemen because I know you too well,”

Fellow Students—‘‘Here! Here!”

 

26—“What did you think of the Doctor’s lecture last night on, “The Culture and use of Prunes,”
ture last night upon, “The Culture and Use of
Prunes.” ”

’23—"T enjoyed it immensely. He was go full

of Lis subject wasn’t he.”

 

Worried One—“Say, Dara, what’s good for a bad

cold? ’
Dara—“But you haven’t got a cold, have, you?”

 

Miss Mack.’ (speaking about preparations for the
Junior Senior)—“Do you know anything about
spoons, Mr. Campbell ?”

D.—“Certainly not, Miss MacKean!”

 

Soph:—‘“What’s the chief mineral in Ireland?
Fresh :—Dunno.
Soph:—Miea, of course.

 

AN EQUITABLE ARRANGEMENT.
Alf and Ol] sit up in front
For mutual protection,
Then the prof “spells out” a hunt
For precium affection.
—BY EN VEE.

C. E. MacIntosh, 3rd year Dent (to patient in
Dental Infirmary)—“Johnny why didn’t you come
yesterday as you were told?”

Johnny—*“Please Doctor I had the toothache.”

Miss Littler (to Miss Thompson, 4th year Dental,

Bat who is busily engaged working on Turnbull's teeth
‘on a Saturday morning)—“Have you permission to
do this Miss Thompson ?”

-_-. ‘Miss ~=Thompson,—‘Permission'—To hug Vie
__ Turnbull this way?—Well you just bet your boots I

ae

Blow do yo ro hem

 

RHYMING REMARKS.
(Continued from page 5)

well worth a dime to have a Freshie
tote around one’s daily notes—on bricks
—these were the note-books in those
days (B.C, 956).

Or think how in the early days, when
Greece was going strong, when she
went clean out of HELL-AS ’gainst the
Turk and Persian throng. Then freshmen in their ‘‘R. M. C.’’ must surely
had some fun. They were used as gently as a snowball—in the sun. They
had to wander round in snow with just
pajamas on. If they survived, they were
good men, if not, well t’was no bon. Or
perhaps they gave the verdant one a
little sword or spear, and told him he
must not come back without a tiger’s
ear. Such would be hazing, don’t you
think, in early Grecian days, when their
‘‘Degrees’’ were our ‘‘M. C’s.’’, and not
like our ‘*B, A.’s. —

And so dear readers, if you think
the Sophs were hard on you, just think
what hazing used to be, and you won’t
feel so blue.

The Gazette needs your support.
Send in your dollar at once.

Livingston (in Dental Infirmary)—‘I’d rather
not take gas’’,
Dr. Milne Blanchard—‘I dare say! But I

won’t risk attending you without it”.

—— THE ——

YOUNG MAN’S STORE

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and inspect our stock
before purchasing.

W. F. PAGE "oor"fteree st.

HALIFAX, N. 8.

 

UNGAR’S

How often a perfectly good
garment is discarded because
it is soiled and stained. That
is because its str does not
realize our wo process 
ing, wae

   
 
  
  
 

       

BARB ER SHOP] |

 

ALLEN’S

THE LEADING BOOKSTORE

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text
Books, Engineers’ Supplies of
all kinds,

Commercial and Society Stationery.

—Waterman’s Fountain Pens—

T. C. ALLEN & CO.

124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S.

 

WALK UPSTAIRS AND
SAVE TEN

WINTER OVERCOATS

{ am cleaning out the balance of my
WINTER OVERCOATS.

Wonderful Values.

$16.50 $23.50

Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.
444 Barrington Street

 

 
    

FOOTWEAR

QUALITY, SERVICE, ECONOMY

Footwear for all times and sea
sons at the new LOW PRICES.

This is the Nearest Shoe Store
to Dalhousie.

5% Discount to All Students

THE SPRING GARDEN
SHOE STORE

_ W. FENTON, Manager.
25 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

           
     
   
   
   

   
   
  
 
  
 

 
 
  
 
 
 

 
 

     
   
 

3 JOHNSON’S |

    
 
 

 
  
  
  

| Bor 4 iowme nara
ae. con

    
    
