a T a b AY 4 =, |e. 4 ——), , _)'s = “re a ae — _. Peo ee OP es coe oe ie X
RF y . 7 .

 

 

VOL. LV. ,

 

 

Che Dalhousie Gazette

FOUNDED 1869
- - ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
H. E. READ. B.A.

ISSUED WEEKLY
EDITOR - ~
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Miss Juanita O'Connor, B. Comm
Vincent F. Clifford

FACULTY EDITORS

D. R. Webster, B.A.
Migs Ciara Murray

Miss Marion Hoben A. B. Morton
I. L. Barnhill W. S. Gilchrist
W. G. Dawson. W. G, Sexton
E. A. Mowat
SPORTS EDITOR P. T. Hickey
PERSONALS EDITOR Miss E. I. MacNeill
R. F. Ross

EXCHANGE EDITOR ,
; RESIDENCE REPORTERS
Miss Angela Magee W. B. MacOdrum
STAFF ARTIST ‘ ‘ ‘ D. E. Green
OVERSEAS CORRESPONDENT J. A. Dunlop, B.A.

BUSINESS MANAGER . : J. GORDON FOGO
64 LEMarcHanr ST., Ter. S. 2596 J.

EDITORIAL

 

Welcome, Oxonians! Dalhousie is glad to
receive you, not alone as representatives of
Britain’s oldest’ University, but for your own
sakes. Dalhousians will do their best to make
your visit to the ‘‘College by the Sea’’ a
pleasant one—one that will stand out happily in your memories of Canadian days.

 

The coming Oxford-Dalhousie debate is
unique and of historical significance in several respects. It will not only be the first
time that a Dalhousie debating team has met
a team from without the Maritime Provinces,
but will be the first international varsity contest ever held in Halifax, Dalhousie’s athletic teams have met those from other countries, such as New Zealand and England, but
none of these have been representatives of
_ universities,

Again, this is the first occasion on which
King’s College, the oldest college in the
British Overseas Dominions, has joined with
_ Dalhousie as an ally in debate. Mr. W. B.

Jones, last year leader of King’s team, will

y the King’s co while Sydney
Gilchrist (leader), and Donald McInnes will
uphold the honor of the Gold and Black.

 

     

> eo
= ee a

“| a.
. “ }
et eS =
=e - .
; i Li ‘ey rr ;
, < '
au weet 5 Rigs ; ae ie
1 i 4

‘Misapprehension of one another’s point of
-operation between che ; DAA. and the

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 27, 1923.

The Athletic Advisory Committee has rendered invaluable service, but under the present arrangement is not called upon to funetion until a misunderstanding has arisen.

It is obvious that the Senate and students
alike should strive to prevent possible causes
of friction with a view to promoting both
efficieney and University spirit. To this end
notice of motion has been given to amend the
D.A.A.€, Constitution so as to include on its
Exceutive two members of the Senate. These
will be appointed by the D.A.A.C., and will
afford direct communication between that
body and the Senate. Each body will thus
be enabled to get the actual relevant facts of
any question in issue and the viewpoint of
the other directly and promptly, with consequent lessening of the chances of misunderstanding.

Dalhousie Wedding Bells.

 

Lauchlin D. Currie, LL.B., 1922, was married on Tuesday, September 25th, to Miss
Margaret, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William
Curry, of Glace Bay. ‘‘Lauchy’’ is practieing law at Glace Bay in partnership with
Neil R. MeArthur, LL.B., 1910.

The marriage of two former Dalhousie studen's took place at Truro recently when Miss
Nita Little of Woodstock, N. B., was united
in marriage to Mr. C. Bannington MecAskill
of the ’23 Class in Law. ‘‘Benny’’ and his
bride spent a part of their honeymoon in
Cape Breton. They will leave shortly for
California where they will in future reside,
‘‘Benny’’ having accepted a position with a
brokerage firm in the Sunny State.

Another Dalhousie graduate, Dr. C. M.
Bayne of the 1920 Class in Medicine, was
married recently. The bride was formerly
Miss Lillian Calkin of Berwick. Dr, Bayne
is the Assistant Superintendent of the Nova
Scotia Sanitarium at Kentville.

Acknowledgments.

 

Misses A. G. Knox, Nan MacRury, Mary M.
Doane, Lily H. Seaman, Doctors S. G. MaceKenzie, A. MeG, Young, Ira S. Pidgeon;
Hon. R. B. Bennett, T. I. 8S. Skinner Co.,
Ltd., and Messrs, Edgar Lougheed, A. H.
Dyment, Alfred W. Shaw, E. G. Maxwell,
N. A. MacKenzie, A. L. Dobson.

 

THE CAHAN COLLECTION

 

received word from Dr. C. H.
he is sending one hund

 

e of legal works |

  

  
 

SC

 

 

 

ONE SATURDAY NIGHT

(With profound apologies to Mr. Longfellow)
Then the verdant little freshettes
Learned the ways of Delta Gamma,
Learned its secrets and traditions,

How it hazes young newcomers,

How it takes the freshness from them,
Puts them through the solemn process
Makes them girls of Delta Gamma;
Learned to walk the high stone staircase
With their bandaged eyes beholding
Nothing of what was around them

Or about them or below them

And to shake the cold wet gauntlet
Of the Caput Delta Gamma,

Taught them five important virtues
Which should be possessed by freshies,
Gave to them the torch of learning
And to them told all the duties

They must practice till November,
Then officious little Sophies,

They the muck-a-mucks, the big chiefs,
Almost busting with importance,

Made a bow for all the freshics

Of the bright green hue they made it,
From a piece of tissue paper.

With a verdant cord they bound it

Aud the cord beneath their chins tied,

Then they said unto the freshies:

‘You are girls of Delta Gamma,

Give for us a little concert,

From the taleut that’s within you,

From your numbers give the eoncert.’’

So they gave a little concert

And the hall rang with applauses.

Then when everything was over

Was a banquet in their honor.

All the Dal girls came and feasted,

Ali the Dal girls praised the freshettes,

Called them ‘‘jolly little freshettes, ’’

Called them ‘‘ pretty little freshettes,’’
By Totem Chip
Personals.

Dr. R. MacGregor Dawson, Dal, 15, B.A.,
Harvard, M.A., University of London, D.Se.,
in Leonomics, who has for the past two years

 

 

~ been Assistant Professor of Economies at
Dalhousie, has resigned to accept a position

with the Carnegie Institute at Pittsburg.
Dawson will be’

Both he and Dr, ‘Art’?
missed by many friends at their Alma Mater.
Esther Crichton, B.A., and Helene Sandford, B.A., two popular ‘members of last.
year’s graduating class, are teaching this year’
at Windsor, the former at Edgehill Ladies”
College, the latter at the High School.
Norman MacKenzie, Law ’23, last year’s

President of the Students’ Council, is taking: |
& post graduate course in Law at Harvard.

Mary Crandall, B.A., who graduated in.
Arts last year, is now taking a course in
Domestic S

 

cience at Macdonald College, St. De

The Dalhousie Gazette |

  
 
       
   
    
Sha Te a am le ~

i

PRA leit. TR

aR SS

RCM RE AE A eat INI NET I cl IE ME NEAT IN RHE rT ie

ee ees A

alt

dtl

oll

Tl al ej

UREN OT RES ee Se

a Lm

z 7 : _‘.
ne +,
L2

= i

   
     
   
 
 

rh
nS.
i, eae

2

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

S55 SSSsasSs>\\ mmm umumxmug mm HM amas

Debating at Oxford

and at.Dalhousie

As a debating team representing the
Oxford Union Society is meeting a teain Trom
Dalhousie and King’s at the Gymifasium oi
Saturday of this week, it miy be of interest
to consider some points of d fierence between

ing at the two Univers)! ies. . |
i Oxford Union Society, which will
celebrate its centenary in 1920, Is the principal debating society at Oxford. There " é
numerable college societies and political clu i"
but their activities are all headed up in the
} 1.
oS th Oxford Union has now for nearly a
century been the eradle of British statesmanship. ‘No less than five Prime Ministers of
England,—Mr. Gladstone, Lord Salisbury,
Lord Rosebery, Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman and Mr. Asquith, have been members of
the Union, while a remarkable number of
Cabinet Ministers, bishops, Viceroys of India
and other pro-consuls of the Empire have
heen trained in its debates. There 1s no |
debeting society in the world that has =
such a marked influence upon the politica
life of the country which it serves as the
Oxford Union. Curously enough the rot
approach which can be found is in the —
of the Dalhousie Mock Parliament. T e
Mock Parliament in its comparatively short
history has trained one Dominion premier, at
least four provincial premiers and —
opposition leaders in provincial polities an
in addition a large number of cabinet
minitsers and men prominent im the Bench
and Bar throughout oe Higinta and even
i ‘parts of the world.
7 ar dated the typical undergraduate
reads widely on subjects outside of his
ordinary course of study and takes a hese
interest in current literary, social, politica
and economic problems. _ This eens
interest finds its seope in political elubs like
the Russell and Palmerston and The New
Tory finds free play in the weekly debates
! held in theUnion.
= The Union debates are held on Thursday
evenings, the President acting as speaker ."
the louse assisted by the Junior iden
junior, treasurer. The debating ha Re
‘modelled upon the House of Commons ane
‘benches for the supporters of the mover :
the resolution, opposing benches the
negative side and cross benches for the
dependants. The subjects of the — =
nearly always current political issues. .
the leaders of each side have spoken : are put on the door of the House 70%
members of the audience vote as woo —
the chamber. The system of —s 1
judges for the debates is unknown an — :
a keen political issue 18 debated large .
hers of undergraduates will attend the “
in order to promote the cause of their party.
In the debates there are y two yr
on euch side and then the President w oo
the floor in turn to such other member of t
Union as wish to speak. There is always on
competition to Ba eed se ye and
a member succeeds in m |
jon during the general discussion he may be
‘asked to take part as one of the
 gpeakers of a fnuture oc: In
fit and itis by »o means uncommon for
rie Sh Pe EF Ai

  

  

  
 
 

a ered
Ly fe Sa ae
¥ ‘ Pl fy fra

Fa, ‘ eee

?
Wy

   

Feds Le
t a . a
eae Pa)
i 7

oie

 

a

ee
‘ee

,

. .
ote yis

C. H. O. ScAIre

The Oxford University Debaters

J. D. Wooprvurr

nee
Rotate ron
Fate's.

pt ah a ee
eS,

fare’ “eo

G. A. GARDINER

Oxford’s representatives in the debates at Columbia and Harvard. Mr. Bagnall will replace Mr. Woodruff when the Team debates at Dalhousie.

 

 

the officers and the tellers. I remember that

the first. time I addressed the Union, it was
abont ten minutes before the closing hour and
my audience consisted of one undergraduate
of the opposite benches who was waiting for
me to sit down in order that he might have
the opportunity of making his maiden speech.

Perhaps the most striking contrast with
our Dalhousie debating is the keen interest
taken by so many men in Union polities and
in public speaking. The presidency of the
Union is the highest honour to which an
undergraduate who has made good impression
in the debate will be nominated as a candidate
for the committee. If he continues to please
the house he will be nominated as junior
treusurer, later he may be elected librarian
and finelly he may achieve the presidency.

There is an unwritten rule that in balloting

the members will always give recognition to
a brilliant speaker irrespective of personal
popularity or political views and prejudices. 3

The speaking in the Union is more informal than our own intercollegiate debating.
Coaching is unknown. Set speeches are not
liked. A man to achieve success in the Union
must be able to. think on his feet, and to fit
his subject into the course of the evening's
debate. The Union Style is perhaps less
serious and logical than our own. — The
Oxford audience dearly loves subtle irony
and epigrams. Brilliance in speaking is more
desired than soundness of doctrine. One
thing that the Union will not tolerate is a
speaker that bores his audience. It will be a
matter of great interest to see the contrast between the different types of debating. It is
to be hoped that the Oxford team will retain
their peculiarly Oxford style and not change
their methods of attack. They have been de
ae Bates, Harvard, Swarthmore, Toronto, —
McGi

and other universities, and will be in
a position to deal with any argument that we
may be prepared to bring forward

Freshies Organize Under Chew.

 

The first class meeting of the Freshmen
was held on Monday, Oct. 1, with Johnson
Chew, Freshman representative, in the chair.
Election of officers resulted as follows :—

President—E. Laurie McElmon.

Vice-President—Miss Minna Troop.

Secretary—Murray Rankin.

Treasurer—Gordon MacKinnon.

Executive—Miss Ruth Foot and Mr. Benoit

On Monday, October 8th, a second meeting
was held with the President as chairman.
At this meeting the following committees
were appointed :

Constitution — Misses Mingie; McCurdy,
Rankin, Freeman and Coffin.

Pin Committee—Miss Goldstone and Mr.
Morrison. .

Social — Misses Maxwell, MeCurdy and
Wickwire; Benoit and McCurdy.

Debating Committee—Misses Trook and
Wilson; Fraser and Allison. a

 

Barber: “How did your mustache get in this

condition ?” th sda dated .
“ cnewe m. .
Senior: y gir | gu —McGill Daily.

 

   

       
 
   
   

   
   
  

DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS

WE EXCEL IN

 

 

 

  
  
  
  

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 
   
  
 
  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Shirreff Hall

On Sunday, October 7th, Dr. Eliza Ritchie
visited at Shirreff Hall, and after dinner
gave a most interesting little talk. She told
about Dalhousie when she, as one of the first
girls who were allowed to attend, took classes
in Arts. The building was down on the Parade, and the women students were few and
far between. She traced the development of
the tiny rest room allotted to the girls, to the
splendid residence which now forms an integral part of the University. She showed
that where once a very few girls had
to struggle to get a higher edueation. a
change had come until most girls take it for
granted that it is their right to go to college.
In closing she tried to make every girl sce
thac her oportunities are as many as her
blessings. To appreciate them one has but
to remember the experiences of her predecessors. The girls were whole-hearted in their
appreciation of Dr. Ritchie and all look forward to another visit from her.

—A. M.

 

THAT FIRST GAME, MR. SHEAN.

 

Oh Mister Gallagher—Oh Mister Gallagher,
Were you out to see the game on Saturday?
They kicked the ball around,

It never touched the ground,

I couldn’t understand at all the play.

Oh Mister Shean—Oh Mister Shean,

It was the hest game I have ever seen.

All the boys were very sure,

Eleven nothing was the score,

For the Wanderers, Mr. Gallagher?

No, Dalhousie, Mr. Shean.

The 2 Scotts Ltd.

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Headquarters for Dal. Boys

 

A splendid stoek of furnishings of all
kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats and
Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suitcases and Bags.

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

DON’T FORGET WE’RE ON THE.
CORNER :

 

JENSEN & MILLS CO,, LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
119 YOUNG ST.

   

THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES

   
 

PRICES RIGHT — QUALITIES
_ RIGHT—SERVICE RIGHT

  
    
   

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

INTERNATIONAL VARSITY DEBATE

Oxford vs Dalhousie

 

Saturday Evening 8 P.M., Oct. 20
AT THE GYMNASIUM

Dalhousie’s Greatest
Seats are
tickets at

International Contest.
at a premium, Get your
once from the University

Office, Studley, or Miss Smith, the
Forrest Building.
ADMISSION
WUUEOGE sar ce hiv basse vy abc hes Oe
NE hk koe AGG whee ae be tee dk e
PUNE iia ek eee FA 814 4 F0-5 aad er ee 7Se

 

 

Welcome to Co-Eds.

 

Pine Hill Post

 

Pine Hill rapidly approaches normaley,
Even so soon Chester Sutherland has settled
down to his pipe and his horse-trades. Already ‘‘Bun?’ Barnaby thrums-love-songs on
some instrument with strings. At mealtimes the telephone calls ominously for our
budding Valentinos-like ‘‘Beareat’’ Harrison,
Jack MeQuarrie and Dune MaeMillan. As
for ‘‘Jo’’ Pringle, nuff-said,

Temporary officers
follows :-—

have been elected as

Bishop—Harold Frame.

Scribe—Don Clouston.

Deacons—Ted Cummings, M. A. MeMillan, Gordon Dawson, Cecil Jones.

There being nobody of sufficient influence
and ability to sueceed ‘‘Tas’’ Langwith or
Murray Brittain, the exalted thrones of
‘‘Pope”’ and ‘‘Cardinal’’ are yet empty.

We are glad to weleome back Maurice

Co-eds of the University enjoyed a very Armstrong and Garth Toomes, both of whom

jolly banquet and entertainment on Tuesday
evening, as guests of the Students Christian
Association.

Hull justice was done to the delicious supper served; then Miss Esther MeKay, President of the Women’s Branch of S. C. A.. as
master of ceremonies, weleomed the new girs.
both the undergraduates from King’s and
Dalhousie’s own freshettes.

She said that each girl on payment of the
Students Council fees at registration, automatically becomes a member of the various
societies in our college.

A representative of each society was called
upon to outline briefly its activities. Amy
McKean for the Delta Gamma, Eva Mader
for the D.G.A.C., Harriett Elliot for the Students Council, Edith MaeNeill for the Gazette,
Roberta Forbes for Glee Club and Clara Murray for Sodales Debating Society.

Miss Lowe, Warden of Shirreff Hall, and
for the past five years National Secretary of
the Student Christian Movement, gave a general explanation of the work of that Association. She spoke of its purpose, its ideals and
especially of the valuable and enduring
friendships which grow up among its mem
bers.

Alice Harvey then gave an account of the
work done in the local 8S. C. A. and in its
branch, the Student Volunteer Band.

After these instructive addresses, a most
entertaining part of the program was announced, ‘‘A Spanish Tragedy’’ in pantomime. The clever burlesque done by the
already famous actors, Harriett Eliot, Angela
Magee and Olive Maddin, kept the audience
in gales of laughter. Persistent applause
brought an encore, which was almost as much
of a ‘‘hit’’ as the first number. Between
the ‘‘acts’’? Katherine Vickery sang a delightful solo.

‘An RkEtn’’

“Waiter, this soup is spoiled 1"
“Who told you?”
“A little swallow.”

. —McGill Daily.

 

 

 

 

“Diligence is the mother of good luck, and God
gives all things to industry.”
“John Paul Jones lies buried here
~~ -- He got wood aleohol in his beer !”’
= as ie ec ae a 5 a a Ll 7 .

7 ,
L kd ; he 4 « 4 ‘i + y=
‘ 1) a ae ‘ ag
o Ke” 4 er ees «ead i a ee
) , a = + t oo Fe
al ie 7 fi -. ‘ ee | ; eo i ‘ite =" ite.

=—s
5.

were delayed by sickness,

Charlie MeLennan is down with the flu.
We hope to see him up again soon.

Roy Inglis, Pine Hill’s strong man, breezed
in for dinner vesterday. Carl Coffin threatens to rob him of his tittle. A week after
C. C.’s arrival he met a girl friend outside
the Green Lantern door, Not noticing that
she was with friends, he said —

‘“Do come in please, Miss M.”’

‘‘ But we are four,’’ Miss M. replied,

Carl was ready, ‘‘Fore-warned is foururmed,’’ he answered.

After a protracted and valiant struggle,
Philosophy 1 has fallen and Bill Forsythe is:
conqueror,

Chalmers Wickwire is missed at the piano,
but a new Paderwiski has arisen in the person:
of ‘‘Bingo’’ Harrison.

Some lady called up Charlie MeIntosh last:
night and no one knew where to find hinm..
Will Charles please take notice.

One of our Freshman friends, Hawkins,
has given us a demonstration of Hugo’s story’
‘The Fight With a Cannon.” Rushing to:
eatch a car he forgot that Belt Line cars have:
little eccentricities all their own. He hurled
himself strongly against the door, brute force:
against science. The door withstood the on-Slaught. Suddenly the motorman turned on
some juice and the pugilist landed on the:
street in the manner most becoming to Fresh-men,

Harry Langwith and Don Clouston, with
the joy of a successful season behind them
will soon reorganize their chorus: snappier,
saucier, jazzier than ever before. It takes’
chaps who know the seenes behind the foot-lights to put that stuff across.

Harold Frame and Bob Ross have both introduced their brothers to Pine Hill. These:
two Seniors have trodden a pathway good’
and deep,—thank goodness, distinet enough.
for Gordon and Art to avoid.

PERPLEXITIES,

1, If Davidson thinks he’s swimming’
when he comes to the table? ee
2, If the Pharmacy where ‘‘Pill’’ Hill)
worked last summer is still in operation?
3. What Bs Seymour Gordon to thes

2 2497
AU out? r
‘ * :

   
    
    
2

 

 

Debating at Oxford

and at.Dalhouste

As a debating team representing the
Oxford Union Society is meeting a teain from
Dalhousie and King’s at the Gymnastuni. oi
Saturday of this week, it may be of interest
to consider some points of d !icrence between
debating at the two Univers)! ies.

The Oxford Union Society, which will
celebrate its centenary in 1925, is the principa) debating society at Oxford, There are
numerable college societies and political elubs
but their activities are all headed up in the
Linion.

he Oxford Union has now for nearly a
century been the eradle of British statesmanship. ‘No less than five Prime Ministers of
England,—Mr. Gladstone, Lord Salisbury,
Lord Rosebery, Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman and Mr. Asquith, have been members of
the Union, while a remarkable number of
Cabinet Ministers, bishops, Viceroys of India
and other pro-consuls of the Empire have
heen trained in its debates, There is no other
debating society in the world that has had
such a marked influence upon the political
life of the country which it serves as the
Oxford Union. Curously enough the closest
approach which can be found is in the record
of the Dalhousie Mock Parliament. The
Mock Parliament in its comparatively short
history has trained one Dominion premier, at
least four provincial premiers and three
opposition leaders in provineial polities and
in addition a large number of cabinet
minitsers and men prominent in the Bench
and Bar throughout the Dominion and even
in other parts of the world.

At Oxford the typical undergraduate
reads widely on subjects outside of his
ordinary course of study and takes a keen
interest in current literary, social, political
and economie problems. This intense
‘nterest finds its scope in political elubs like
the Russell and Palmerston and The New
Tory finds free play in the weekly debates
that are held in theUnion.

The Union debates are held on Thursday
evenings, the President acting as speaker of
the louse assisted by the junior librarian and

junior treasurer. The debating hall 1s
‘modelled upon the House of Commons with
benches for the supporters of the mover of
the resolution, opposing benches for the
negative side and cross benches for the independants. The subjects of the debate are
nearly always current political issues. After
the leaders of each side have spoken tellers
are put on the door of the House and the
members of the audience vote as they leave
the chamber. The system of boards of
judges for the debates is unknown and when
a keen political issue 1s debated large numhers of undergraduates will attend the Union
in order to promote the cause of their party.
Tn the debates there are usually two speakers
on cach side and then the President will give
the floor in turn to such other member of th®
Union as wish to speak. There is always keen
competition to eateh the speakers eye and if
a member succeeds in making a good impressjon during the general discussion he may be
‘asked to take part as one of the principal

kers of a fnuture oceassion. Individuals
in the audience leave whenevér they _ om
it and it is by *o0 means uncommon for %
“member to shiven an audience consisting of

the offieers and the tellers.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

The Oxford University Debaters

 

C. Hi. O. SCAIFE

J. D. Wooprurr

G. A. GARDINER

Oxford’s representatives in the debates at Columbia and Harvard. Mr. Bagnall will replace Mr. Woodruff when the Team debates at, Dalhousie.

 

 

I remember that
the first time I addressed the Union, it was
abont ten minutes before the closing hour and
my audience consisted of one undergraduate
of the opposite benches who was waiting for
me to sit down in order that he might have
the opportunity of making his maiden speech.

Perhaps the most striking contrast with
our Dalhousie debating is the keen interest
taken by so many men in Union polities and
in publie speaking. The presidency of the
Union is the highest honour to which an
undergraduate who has made good impression
in the debate will be nominated as a candidate
for the committee. If he continues to please
the house he will be nominated as junior
treasurer, later he may be elected librarian
and finelly he may achieve the presidency.
There is an unwritten rule that in balloting
the members will always give recognition to
a brilliant speaker irrespective of personal

popularity or political views and prejudices. —

The speaking in the Union is more informal than our own intercollegiate debating.
Coaching is unknown. Set speeches are not
liked. .A man to achieve success in the Union
must be able to think on his feet, and to fit
his subject into the course of the evening’s
debate. The Union Style is perhaps less
serious and logical than our own. The
Oxford audience dearly loves subtle irony
and epigrams. Brilliance in speaking is more
desired than soundness of doctrine. One
thing that the Union will not tolerate is a
speaker that bores his audience. It will be a
matter of great interest to see the contrast betwean the different types of debating. It is
to be hoped that the Oxford team will retain
their peculiarly Oxford style and not change
their methods of attack. They have been debating Bates, Harvard, Swarthmore, Toronto,
McGill and other universities, and will be in
a position to deal with any argument that we
may be prepared to bring forward. I feel
confident, however, that our team from ‘the
Sodales Debating Society of Dalhousie and
the Quinctilian Society of King’s will give
them a good sporting contest.

—Joun E. Reap, Dal ’09

i : }

Freshies Organize Under Chew.

The first class meeting of the Freshmen
was held on Monday, Oct. 1, with Johnson
Chew, Freshman representative, in the chair.
Election of officers resulted as follows :—

President—E. Laurie MeElmon.

Vice-President—Miss Minna Troop.

Secretary—Murray Rankin.

Treasurer—Gordon MacKinnon.

Executive—Miss Ruth Foot and Mr. Benoit

On Monday, October 8th, a second meeting
was held with the President as chairman.
At this meeting the following committees
were appointed :

Constitution — Misses Mingie; McCurdy,
Rankin, Freeman and Coffin.

Pin Committee—Miss Goldstone and Mr.
Morrison.

Social — Miss¢és Maxwell, MeCurdy and
Wiekwire; Benoit and MeCurdy.

Debating Committee—Misses Trook and
Wilson; Fraser and Allison.

—E. L. M.

 

Barber: “How did your mustache get in this
condition?”
Senior: “My girl chewed gum.”

—McGill Daily.

   
  
     
     
     
  
 
    
   
 
  

DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS

WE EXCEL IN

Students’ Loose Leaf Books and

other Students’ Supplies of
all sorts.

FRANK M. ONEILL & CO. LTD

160 GRANVILLE STREET |

   
  

   
  
  

 

 

THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES

 

 

Shirreff Hall

On Sunday, October 7th, Dr. Eliza Ritchie
visited at Shirreff Hall, and after dinner
gave a most interesting little talk. She told
about Dalhousie when she, as one of the first
girls who were allowed to attend, took classes
in Arts. The building was down on the Parade, and the women students were few and
far between. She traced the development of
the tiny rest room allotted to the girls, to the
splendid residence whieh now forms an integral part of the University. She showed
that where once a very few girls had
to struggle to get a higher edueation. a
change had come until most girls take it for
granted that it is their right to go to college.
In closing she tried to make every girl see
thee her oportunities are as many as her
blessings. To appreciate them one has but
to remember the experiences of her predecessors, The girls were whole-hearted in their
appreciation of Dr, Ritchie and all look forward Lo another visit from her.

—A, M.
THAT FIRST GAME, MR. SHEAN.

Oh Mister Gallagher—Oh Mister Gallagher,
Were you out to see the game on Saturday?
They kicked the ball around,

It never touched the ground,

I couldn’t understand at all the play.

Oh Mister Shean—Oh Mister Shean,

It was the best game I have ever seen.

All the boys were very sure,

Kleven nothing was the score,

For the Wanderers, Mr. Gallagher?

No, Dalhousie, Mr. Shean.

 

  
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
     

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Headquarters for Dal. Boys

A splendid stock of furnishings of all
kinds, Winter Overeoats, Hats and

Caps, Gaberdine Raineoats and Suitcases and Bags,

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

DON'T FORGET WE’RE ON THE
CORNER

   
  

JENSEN & MILLS CO, LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
119 YOUNG ST.

 
 

]

   

  
   
 

PRICES RIGHT — QUALITIES
RIGHT—SERVICE RIGHT

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

——— 
a

 

 

—_— oS

 

INTERNATIONAL VARSITY DEBATE
Oxford vs Dalhousie
Saturday Evening 8 P.M., Oct. 20
AT THE GYMNASIUM

Dalhousie’'s Greatest International Contest.

Seats are at a premium. Get your
tickets at once from the University
Office, Studley, or Miss Smith, the
Forrest Building.
ADMISSION
ON. -Yelers tie eden Ker corsvis OB
OMGIGE ik 6a x itncn (<tpteerFeneverene vee
a Se ae ee oe he .. 780

Welcome to Co-Eds.

Co-eds of the University enjoyed a very
jolly banquet and entertainment on Tuesday
evening, as guests of the Students Christian
Association,

ull justice was done to the delicious supper served; then Miss Esther MekKay, President of the Women’s Branch of S. C. A... as
masier of ceremonies, weleomed the new girls,
both the undergraduates from
Dalhousie’s own freshettes.

She said that each girl-on payment of the
Students Couneil fees at registration, automatically beeomes a member of the various
societies in our college, !

King’s and

A representative of each society was ealled
upon to outline briefly its aetivities. Amy
McKean for the Delta Gamma, Eva Mader
for the D.G.A.C., Harriett Elliot for the Students Couneil, Edith MacNeill for the Gazette,
Roberta Forbes for Glee Club and Clara Murray for Sodales Debating Society.

Miss Lowe, Warden of Shirreff Hall, and
for the past five vears National Secretary of
the Student Christian Movement, gave a general explanation of the work of that Association. She spoke of its purpose, its ideals and
especially of the valuable and enduring
friendships which grow up among its members. |

Alice Harvey then gave an account of the
work done in the loeal 8. C. A. and in its
branch, the Student Volunteer Band.

After these instruetive addresses, a most
entertaining part of the program was an
nouneed, ‘‘A Spanish Tragedy’’ in pantomime.
already famous actors, Harriett Eliot, Angela
Magec and Olive Maddin, kept the audience
in gales of laughter.
brought an encore, which was almost as much
of a “‘hit’’ as the first number,
the ‘‘acts’’ Katherine Vickery sang a de
The elever burlesque done by the

Persistent applause

Between

ightful solo,
‘Ap REIn”’

 

“Waiter, this soup is spoiled!”
“Who told you?”
“A little swallow,”

—McGill Daily.

 

troduced their brothers to Pine Hill.
two Seniors have trodden a pathway good’
and deep,—thank goodness, distinct enough
for Gordon and Art to avoid.

Pine Hill Post

le

Pine Hill rapidly approaches normaley.
ven so soon Chester Sutherland has settled
down to his pipe and his horse-trades, Already 7 sun?’ Barnaby thrums love-songs on
some instrument with strings. At mealtimes the telephone calls ominously for our
budding Valentinos-like ‘‘Beareat’’ Harrison.
Jack MeQuarrie and Dune MaeMillan. As
for ‘‘Jo’’ Pringle, nuff-said.

Temporary officers
follows :—

have been eleeted as

Bishop—Harold Frame.

Scribe—Don Clouston.

PDeacons—Ted Cummings, M. A. MeMillan, Gordon Dawson, Ceeil Jones.

There being nobody of sufficient influence
and ability to sueeeed ‘‘Tas’’ Langwith or
Murray Brittain, the exalted thrones of
‘“Pope”’ and ‘‘Cardinal’’ are yet empty.

We are glad to weleome back Maurice
Armstrong and Garth Toomes, both of whom
were delayed by sickness,

Charlie MeLennan is down with the flu
We hope to see him up again soon. |
| Roy Inglis, Pine Hill’s strong man, breezed
in for dinner vesterday. Carl Coffin threatens to rob him of his tittle. A week after
C. C.’s arrival he met a girl friend outside
the Green Lantern door, Not noticing that
she was with friends, he said —

‘‘Do come in please, Miss M.”’

‘But we are four,’’? Miss M. replied.

Carl was ready, ‘‘Fore-warned is foururmed,’’ he answered,

After a provracted and valiant struggle,
Philosophy 1 has fallen and Bill Forsythe is:
conqueror.

Chalmers Wickwire is missed at the piano,
but a new Paderwiski has arisen in the person
of ‘‘Bingo’’ Harrison.

Some lady called up Charlie McIntosh last
might and no one knew where to find him
Wiil Charles please take notice,

One of our Freshman friends, Hawkins,
has given us a demonstration of Hugo’s story’
‘The Fight With a Cannon.” Rushing to:
eateh a car he forgot that Belt Line ears have:
little eecentricilies all their own. He hurled
himself strongly against the door, brute foree:
against science. The door withstood the on-:
slaught. Suddenly the motorman turned on
some juice and the pugilist landed on the:
street in the manner most becoming to Freshmen,

Harry Langwith and Don Clouston, with
the Joy of a successful season behind them
will Soon reorganize their chorus: snappier,
saucier, jazzier than ever before. It takes:

chaps who know the scenes behind the foot
lights to put that stuff across,

Harold Frame and Bob Ross have both inThese’

PERPLEXITIES.

1, If Davidson thinks he’s swimming’

when he comes to the table?

2. If the Pharmacy where ‘‘Pill’’ Hill

“Diligence is the mother of good luck, and God Worked last summer is still in operation?

gives all things to industry.”

 

*‘John Paul Jones lies buried here
He got wood aleohol in his beer!’’

3. What takes Seymour Gordon to the:

Park so often?

4. What Outhit hits when he hits out?
5. Why Morris Kirn sings Annie Laurie?’
—W. McD.

 
    
  
 

and even fashionable, ‘‘On

ment, J’ai faim, e¢’est le moment psycholo-—

est dans —
accom
4

—-s
 

—

“PSYCHOLOGICAL MOMENT”

_—_—_ —_- + 
 

It may surprise those who have not consulted the ‘‘New Oxford English Dictionary”’
that the trite but popular phrase ‘‘psychological moment’’ is illegimate in origin and
derisory in application.

This phrase, as it has been employed, is
intended to signify ‘‘the exact moment,’’
and, with this connotation in view, has been
uttered with such frequency and printed
with such regularity that the editors of the
“‘New Oxford Dictionary’’ considered that
it deserved more than a mere passing notice.

Before referring to the criticism of the
phrase and its connotations as given by this
incomparable thesaurus, it might be advantageous to define the words of the phrase
separately and then to compare the definitions
obtained with its supposed connotation.

The word ‘‘psychological’’ connotes ‘‘of or
pertaining to psychology’’ and Professor
Ladd defines psychology as ‘the description
and explanation of states of consciousness as
such.’’ The word ‘‘moment’’ refers to a
‘‘minute portion of time.’’ Now how the customary definition of this phrase may be
made to harmonize with the foregoing connotation of each word is a problem which, in
itself, is difficult to understand.

However, in order to explain somewhat
more fully this phrase and its connotation,
namely—‘‘psychological moment,’ and ‘*the
exact moment,’’ it will be necessary to examine their origin and history,

During the war of 1870 the Germans laid
siege to Paris and, after employing consider‘able strategy and patience, reduced the
French to such a pitiful state of famine and
helplessness that civil dissension arose. A
German newspaper asserted that the primary purpose of the bombardment was to
work upon the imagination of the Parisians
so that the ‘‘exact moment’’ upon which to
act could be estimated by the Germans.

But ‘‘the phrase’’ with its expression was
due to an error of translation: the German
periodicals had intended their phrase “Das
psychologische moment’’ to be translated as
‘‘the psychological momentum or potent factor’’; but the Parisians, in translating it,
confused the phrase with another German

- expression,—‘‘der psychologische moment’’

in which the ‘‘moment’’ is used to indicate a

point of time. ;
However, the Parisians attributed the error

to German pedantry and the wits of Paris

- forthwith ridiculed the phrase ‘‘das psycho
‘logische moment,’’—they had not much mat
a for merriment or mockery in those tragic
vs )
Francisque Sareey in his ‘‘Le Siege de

Paris’’ asserts that the phrase became current

«’’? as “le moment 1’ame

is—the moment in

of ¥
. *
Pd 4
c
s
A

 

disait couram- |

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| Webster’s Column |

Within the last few years the Gazette has
been criticized on different occasions by several of our contemporary papers. Their
criticism was, that the amount of space devoted to literary effort was quite inadequate
for a university the size of Dalhousie. This,
it must be admitted was in a measure merited
and this year the staff are endeavoring to
provide a more balanced Gazette. The inauguration of this page is one phase of the attempt.

The Gazette this year is offering several
prizes. Two-awards will be given every
month. Each will consist of a standard book,
one for the best poem submitted each month
and one for the best article or short story.
Two additional prizes of ten dollars will be
given for the best poem and article submitted
during the entire year. These are special
prizes awarded in addition to and collateral
with the ‘‘Literary D’’ competition. A contribution of this character will not only receive credit in the Literary D competition
but will also be considered when awarding
the special prizes.

There shall be five judges, two from the
Senate and three from the Gazette staff. At
a meeting of the committee the following
members of the staff were declared ineligible
Juanita O’Connor, H. E. Read and D. R.
Webster. The only rules beyond the ordinary editorial requirements are that the poem
shall not exceed thirty lines and the short
story or article fifteen hundred words.

These prizes have been made possible by
friends of the Gazette and are worthy of the
best efforts of every member of the University.

 

 

Wi!] the person who has contributed to the
Gazette under the name ‘‘Canora’’ please
give his or her name to the editor. While we
do not object to publishing a contribution
under a pen name, we must know the author’s

’ name for purposes of record. Any communi
cation made to the editor will be treated as
confidential at the contributor’s request.

 

Send in your contribution early.

 

_ LITERARY “D” STANDING.
(To October 10, 1923).

 

  

W. Poirier, C. R. Baxter, F. A. Chrichlow .. 1%
J. A. Forbes .....csecseveencees botuneeces oe
A. RR. Robertson ........++0+- en toe pike hee Og 13
oon E. 1. ae Pah Hesse bed eeweved 11
iss Angela agee, . . reighton “+
Miss Amy MacKean, W, B. MacOdrum......
S. Marcus, B. Irwin ...... bigs daavbeeensens
Miss Olive Maddin, EB, Wetmore ..........+.
F, J. Forbes, D. F, MacDonald, P. T. Hickey.
-Miss K. V : i. Borden . Graham eee
I. L. Barnhill, ’ iss R. Bond, Vs F, Clifford. .
D. Hebb, T. H. Malone Fe S88 oS. Ses
. Ww Ss. Gilchrist eer teense eesee
acOdrum seseasesnvenede
Proffitt ee
C. McLean tees

«tr ti Orv. —
iL a. S we i
r ” f 7 car
: an =o! + aa) D
. ee u a
” a rf ail] (
_— ee ie
. eee a Pe 28)
: Et

le a a
r for this defin

4 a ee

a! } } 4 : foi
j Ait : ’
- se - ae fi
» - 4
a

F ewww enDnEyte Ane

 

 

The Dalhousie Review

The October number of the Review is very
timely. Considered nationally it has very
opportune articles on the Empire’s position
in world affairs and on peace probleins,
There is an article on Canada’s present political state, and an excellent treatise on the
success of college federation in the University of Toronto.

On the purely literary side there is a popular appeal in the folklore of Nova Scotia,
and centennial tributes to Francis Parkman
and Ernest Renan.

The contributers are, as usual, of outstanding ability and are recognized leaders in their
spheres. The wide variety of articles offers
a field for every taste and in one the argumentive trend is so delightful as to hold the

interest of the most casual reader.
—SCRIBE.

 

 

Only One.

Only one star in the midnight sky.
Only one tiny star,
That keeps its lonely vigil there

- From. things of earth afar;
Only one star in the midnight sky,
But that is enough to see
‘hat Heaven is near to help and guide
Wherever we may be.

Only one ship on the boundless sea
Amid the great unknown

That tries to sail and has to fight
The angry foe alone;

Only one ship on the boundless sea,”

‘+ But that is enough to show

That where one heart has ventured forth
There, other hearts can go.

Only one flower, faded and old,
And stained by many tears,
Gone is its bloom of youth
Goes with the parting years;
Only one flower, faded and old,
But that is enough to see ;
That the one I loved while here on earth
Is still beloved by me.
, —Pengold.

COMPLAINT HEARD IN ENGLISH 1

, a question I would ask,
vere such a tad

     
    

 

- oSBu
  

Refuse :

Since prohibition now has sp
But to console my kind, the wise me
To be a bard, one must be born that way.

 

the wise men say, —

 

—_:
fi

     

aa ior. .
oa , ‘
a a r

’ Pf a. a) : ’
Pa By ,ea +4 j . j
Tart | i, + ke Sy "7 Fe q
} ‘ d e \ ‘ me = ; er 1 ; ae .
ane ee Th Se 7
_ “40% 1088 to 1 |
ay » b 7 rs no : :
- a => * ; /
‘i e ?" Ca = —= o 7 4
oF. 4 = ” j
, iy ii <= & ,
. a) y - Md 2

Te Te my aT mw Wee's ~ Te To 2 TF Dae! ~ Eo — = os a a = ae — i
FRE Te Ee Te Le RE a ENE ee re ee Oe OAT CT Ey Ie
, Cy ee). SCAN : wali ys, oN 4 a Us beep atl
7 a , *

—

i

DENTAL EXTRACTIONS

Contrary to the belief that it is natural for
dentists to look ‘‘down in’the mouth,’’ several of the boys in the third year found it
extremely difficult at first. Many and varied
were their contortions in attempting to view
the upper teeth wihout a mirror; much to the
amusement of the fourth year.

Karl Green has suggested that the habit of
looking up to heaven for inspiration during
anatomy quizzes last year may have been a
predisposing cause.

Vie Turnbull, Dentistry’s energetic footbail manager, has arranged -for two regular
practises a week at Studley with a workout at
the ‘‘Masonic”’ on Saturday night, and under
this regime the team is rapidly rounding into
shape.

Cheer leader Hennigar complains that he is
finding it hard to get his rooters organized as
nearly the whole Society is turning out to
practise, but he hopes for better support
when the Interfaculty league opens,—with
Archie and Trainor’s numerous friends
among the fair sex on hand.

The boys were not long in doubt as to the
contents of the express parcel from Alberta
received by Harold ‘‘Ducky’’ Fraser when
he appeared the following morning resplendent in wing collar and jazzy bow tie. Apparently a new Beau Brummel has arisen in the
fourth year and taken up the mantle thrown
down by ‘‘Old Dear’’ of Class ’23.

—X-Ray.

 

He put his arm around her waist,

_ And placed upon her lips a kiss;

‘I’ve sipped,’’ he said, ‘‘from many a cup,
But never from a mug like this.’’

=== DISPENSING————

MacLeod, Balcom Ltd.
Druggists

WANT
YOUR _
BUSINESS

 

 

 

:

‘ =

 

  
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Ss

THE DRYMAN’S LAMENT.

 

Take, take, take,
From thy flask its cork, O Lee,
And would that thy pockets were bigger
And they held two more or three.

Oh well for the whisky-filled guy
As he works with his “Special” at play;
© well for the “temperate” Jad
When he can’t tell a roan from a hay.

And the strange-labelled brands come in
From their birth-place under the hill,
But, O for a taste of the vanished Scotch
And the smell of a hooch-ful still!

Take, take, take,
That quart from thy Doec., O Lee
For the boozy grace of a day that was wet
Will never come back to me.

—By “Luni-Still’

Dal. Meds. ’23

 

‘Tempus fugit!’’ The college men and
women of yesterday are now ‘‘out in the wide,
wide world.’’ It is of interest to note where
fate has led the members of last year’s graduating class in Medicine.

_ F. J. Nickle, commonly known as ‘‘Nick,’’
is practising in his home town, Malone, Ont.

Fiubert Lyons is a house-surgeon in the
Montreal General Hospital.

Mahone Bay has claimed Ira Pidgeon as its
Owl. |

The City of Sydney, C. B., has had the
good fortune to secure Clement MacLeod.

Frank Gordon Wilson (‘‘Gunboat Bill’’)
“a cpt his way to a Newfoundland Hospital.

Dara Cochrane has hung up his shingle in
Fox River.

The Kentville Sanatorium has secured Herbert Corbett.

Clyde Holland is on the Dalhousie staff
and ably assists the Meds in the Anatomy
Room. Rumor has it that he is anticipating
post-graduate work in Edinburgh.

A house-surgeonship in the Royal Victoria
Hospital, Montreal, has attracted Harold
Dolan.

Cecil E. Kinley, so far as we know, graces
his native town of Lunenburg.

Maurice Levine has answered the call of
Carleton, Yarmouth County.

The City still retains Harold Corbin.

Margaret Chase is on the Dalhousie staff,
serving in the Pathological Department.

Phebe Christianson is taking a course in
Public Health nursing at Harvard.

Foster Murray is about to locate in the
eg Seotch village of Seotsburn, Pictou

unty. | .

Stanley Peppard has gravitated to Chester.

Abraham Medjuck has been allured: back
to his native isle. . ,

Perry Cochrane has become Dr. MacDou
’s right hand man. Halifax is fortunate

retaining Perry.

D. McP. Rowlings (‘‘Maccie’’) has taken

up a practise at Sheet Harbor.
Thus the senior ‘‘Meds’’ of last year have

to them all!

_ || been seattered. Here’s the very best of luck

 
  

THE LAWYER'S BRIEF

Professors and students of the Faculty of
Law are.delighted to see Mr. R. F. Yeoman
B.A., LL.B., again oeeupying his old position
as lecturer in Bankruptey. |

The ‘‘glad hand’’ is being extended to
Harry Wickwire on his return to the Law
School.

Frank Rowe, gold medalist Law ’23, is now
a member of the firm of Cameron & Rowe,
barristers, Sydney, C.B. The senior partner
is the Hon. D. A. Cameron, Provincial Secty.

James Hackett, Law ’23, has opened his
own office at North Sydney.

ae en Law ’23, is the junior
member in the law firm of Roper
oe per & Mahoney,

John Dunlop, Rhodes scholar 1922, has returned to England to resume his studies.
vine to a for England John spent
a week in the city, the guest of the
64 LeMarchant St. . wink
; Will Livingstone and Will Dunlop of the
'22 class in Law are carrying on successfully
in Annapolis and Windsor, respectively.
Wallace Holmes, Law ’23, is practising
with Thomas Notting, Chronicle Building,
Halifax,

 

—I. L. B.

 

Jolly Juniors Ate Their Corn.

 

The first class function of the season was
held by the Juniors on Friday, Oct. 5th, at
the ‘‘Red Sox’’ camp on the Dartmouth
lakes.

The party, about 40 in number, with Mrs.
MacNeill as chaperon, embarked for Dartmouth on the 7.15 ferry. After reaching the
other side, they walked to the lakes, and proceeded the rest of the way in motor boats,

While the corn was boiling, the ‘‘bunch’’
passed the time in singing Dal songs, and
dancing on the camp verandah. ‘‘Dutehy’’
Martin, the owner of the camp, helped in a
great measure to provide entertainment. As
director of a ‘‘Paul Jones’’ he has no equal.

After everything that was eatable was con- —

sumed, the party broke up and all, except the
Dartmouthians, journeyed homewards on the

last boat after having spent a most enjoyable —

evening.
-—S. X.

 

Jim: Are you fond of nuts?
Cecile (coldly): Is that a proposal?

—MeGill Daily.

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

 

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,.
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text

= é =o aa iG

=:
oe
Lo ag ig eae

 

 
   
  

 
   
-all the girls can come.

WITH THE GIRLS IN SPORT.

———e—

FIELD HOCKEY.

Field hockey is progressing ‘‘as well as
ean be expected.’’ It is very difficult to arrange for hours on the football field so that
At some future date
it is hoped that the D.G.A.C. will have a
field of their own.

A lecture on ground hockey was given by
Prof. Macneill to the girls on Thursday, Oct.
4, in which he described the game and gave
a brief account of the duties of each player.
Mr. Macneill will be able to coach the hockey
players now, his registrarial duties having
practically ceased. The hours decided upon
are: Wednesday, 2.30—3.30; Thursday,

- 4,30—5.30; Friday, 5—6.

‘.*

    

—

BASKETBALL,

Basketball won’t start for a while yet,—
probably not till the hockey season is over.
There was something wrong with the team
last year. Was it lack of training? Come
out and play hockey to get in training. It
is the best thing in the world for you.

‘wo of last year’s team graduated with
Class °23 — Marion Clark and Esther
Crichton—so there will have to be a search
for new material. The practices are in the
evenings, at 7.30, so no classes will interfere.
If you are interested in basketball see Elinor
Barnstead, the manager.

—FH, M,

 

“The sleeping fox catches no poultry, and
there will be sleeping enough in the grave.”

 

“Want of care does us more damage than went
of knowledge.”

 

“Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them.”

The Gift House
of the Maritimes

BIRKS, HALIFAX, is a
branch of the large jewellery
organization having their
headquarters in Montreal and
other branches at Ottawa,

Winnipeg, Calgary and Vancouver. Itis governed by the

same policies.

Our Insignia Department has
supplied your class jewellery.
Our other departments can
satisfy you when you select

’ ~ eit
ety 4 \ ‘
- } i
F | gg
ee 5 “
an i ry
a iS i & ¢
i = ‘ r ; *
te! . : ‘ :
bat " .
‘ ' *
: A

7
- - "
s ae * ¢@ .
b =
es 4 Se, ; ‘ i ’ ; 4 - . a ory 7 y .

i
zz i ~ et
Sit eT

ah.

he ‘ E
i , ae
rv) ee 2% , ¢

&
a a A
a

_ a ere
a i
Ms *

: ms gp *SL a.
4 re Ak i p eo |
; \ ; > a a ! m r ‘
Nees ti) = aie ee ee ae ee oe
a. eA ' a i rie A owe Pere es) et a, ss es 4
” "i e eal P ’ ag Bs ‘ . . = py J e a5. \
we ' ‘;
Be ' . ] }

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

FA Tae RS PAL ETT, A
Le : eR T

yey ag peat RY rg ee
: ; 7 ia,

ini << ———____

WHY LET COLLEGE KILL IT?

You Can Develop Yours.

 

Is the college student of today developing
his initiative power? We hear this question
asked often these days, and rightly so, for
there are many evidences that this important
power is not being developed in students.
Students are blamed for not showing it, professors for not encouraging it.

There are of course arguments on both
sides (and incidentally this might be a good
subject for a Sodales debate.) A professor
with fifty or sixty students in a class has not
much time to allow for discussion or research
work, with the result that an exam is set
and a pass awarded largely on the strength of
the professor’s theories.

But granting all this, it remains with the
student himself to say whether or not his initiative will be stifled. There are many ways
of exercising it. |

Here is one of the best developers of initiative and original thought at Dal, Every
year interested students organize study
groups under the direction of the 8. C. A.
Here, groups of ten or twelve discuss certain
questions or books—religious and otherwise—
and freely exchange opinions, without the discomfort of having a red pencil near to say
whether they are right or wrong.

These groups have been said by several of
those who know and are otherwise ‘‘there”’
to carry on the most beneficial study in the
university, and they are not, as some are
wout to believe, limited to Protestants nor
even to Christians. There is only one provision: That the student come to the subject
with an ‘open mind and without a biased
opinion.

Anyone wishing to join one of these groups
should see the heads of the different branches
of study, viz—Jarvis MacCurdy, Ted Cumming, Roy Gushie, A. B. Morton, ©. Sedgwick, R. F. Ross, Howard Hamilton, or any
o fthe 8. C. A. executive.

 

| ‘qeaightt Medicsl:Dance!

‘Tonight, the 17th, at the Gym, the Medieal dance takes place. It promises to be one
of the ‘best ever,’ so forget your cares and
troubles and take it in. The Med. dance is
always an event in the college year which no
one can afford to miss. : .

 

i, ot out
tig 7 * ir Po ce 4 SS given, Das sr .
=. ae ft = aS et ah a
We ; Be r pa A oe
Pk va end) PrP kate | Sua
> hd Mee a : ie Of . | oe

TIPS FROM DR. GYM.

 

The general gymnasium classes have commenced and students who have not registered
in some branch of the physical activities
should do so at once. .

Success should be the aim for all. To
achieve it, there is one great factor of paramount importance—health, good red blood.
Without health you cannot hope to attain
that efficiency demanded every day in your
studies.

The gymnasium, often called Dr. Gym,
will help you to maintain your geod health
or assist you in developing a good physique.
A good start is half the race; many a race has
been won or lost at the start.

The athlete trained to get away on the
flash of the gun has a decided advantage over
one slow in starting. The same principle
applies in physical training,—the man making an early start in the gymnasium under
competent instructors who continues to devote
regular periods to the work will in time develop the most healthy body.

Regular periods will be devoted to general
gym work for King’s and Dalhousie students,
Classes in boxing, wrestling, fencing, tumbling, gymnasties, athletics, volley ball, indoor
baseball, ‘basket ball, badminton, handball,
ete., will be organized for all interested.

Students unable to attend the regular

gym classes at Studley consult the Physical’

Director, and after an examination, he will
advise as to diet, sleep, fresh ‘air, method of
bathing and, give special exercise for the

hore.
: —*Dr. Gym.”’

ships at reasonable prices.

——————_—_—

Clayton & Sons |

4 i Pa vs *
de te wan | tain Pens
; is as rig! ea Oh ey: rap i ee oe he a
7s Ea rr ar , ba by a % a , 4 ® ‘,
4 ‘ws ‘die

Tv ae oj gam sary eve ,
i OME Me ee ee
s cr , ,

 

 

_ Kings was closely contested. Miss Dalhousie

 

rise ¥) + wot ak Tr a
ares > wry

Lo UN
- : >,

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dalhousie O, Wanderers O

FOOTBALL GAME A TIE

The Wanderers held the Dalhousie Tigers
to a scoreless tic in last Saturday’s Football
game.

Dalhousie were strong favorites after their
previous victory, but the Reds appeared with
many changes on their line up, which proved to their advantage. In order to overcome
the heavy Dal scrim, they played an eight
man serim, and only two quarters. Hard
tackling was the order of the day and a number of players received hard falls, but all
were able to resume play. Pat Slipp was
hurt, but returned to the game after some
twenty minutes,

Dal started off well, attacking the Reds in
their own territory, but they were repulsed
and play seesawed back and forth. The
Wanderers succeeded in getting the ball from
the scrim much more than last week and were
thus able to feed their half line. Dalhousie
came back strong in the second period, and
some excellent runs were made, especially by
Bates and Langwith. The opportunities to
score were not many but the few that did
present themselves were lost by failure to
pass the ball. Fraser saved the day for the
Tigers on more than one occasion and
Edwards proved a stonewall for the Reds.
Campbell also starred for the Reds. As
touch downs were found to be impossible to
get, Haslam for Dal and McCoy for the
Wanderers made several attempts to drop a
kick over the bar, but fates were against
them.

The game was a battle from start to finish,
and many hard knocks were given and
received. Both teams were watched closely
and neither allowed the other to get away.
Dalhousie still holds the lead in the League
with a win and a tie, while the Wanderers
have a tie and a loss. Another battle royal is
expected on Saturday! when the teams meet
again.

Wanderers Juniors defeated Dal 5—0.

The burlesque show before the game was
well ‘lidaitead and provided amusement for
the three thousand spectators.

The chariot race between Pine Hill and

 

€ winner with a bucket of cold

water. The band discoursed music never

before heard in Halifax.
The line up-—
Seniors, Dalhousie—Forwards, Logan,

| Jones, Livingstone, Britton, Suther
  

land, Moore; quarters, Ba ) .
ie ican ann

 

    

 

THAT FIRST GAME

 

HOW ABOUT IT, STUDENTS?

A Dal Volley Ball League is to be started
at the Gym right away. The profs are entering a team and have already had two
practices. Say, fellows, are you going to let
the profs get a jump on you? See Mr, Sterling at once!

Dr. Gym says that anyone wishing to try
out for basketball who is not playing football
should spend any spare hours at the gym.
Now’s the time to get in shape and put in
some hard practice for the winter’s sport.

_ Several Dalhousie students are taking part
in the Swiss Fair, being given at St. Andrews
Church Hall, Coburg Road, evenings of Oct.
18, 19 and 20, Livingstone and Dr. Gym
are going to do some ef their balancing and
“strong man’’ stunts the first night! Second
and third nights there is to be folk dancing
and an operetta.

 

University of Toronto defeated McGill, at

Montreal, by a seore of 22—9 in a hard fought

battle before 8,000 spectators.

 

Voice in the dark: ‘‘Oh, Harold, dear,
why did you turn out. the light ?’’

Harold: ‘‘I wanted to ipe
wail tit” see if my pipe was

——_$__———
From Six to Sixty,--the boys who thrill with desire for

greater athletic accomplishment th
boys who pick r RSA
|

   
  

INTERCOLLEGIATE CONFERENCE

The Maritime Intercollegiate Conference
was held at Truro, October 9th, und representatives from seven colleges were in attendanee, The officers for the coming year were
appointed and schedules drawn up for the
various leagues in both Eastern and Western
sections,

The Nova Scotia Technical College was
admitted into the Eastern league for both
hockey and football. The football programme
for this section was made up as follows:

Oct. 17—Kings vs. N. S. Technical.

Oct. 22nd—Techniecal vs. St. F. X,

_ 24th—Dal. vs. St. F. X.

Jet. 3ist—St. F.X. vs. Kings at Antigonish

Oct. 31st—Dal vs. Technical. .

a 3 or 5—Dal vs. Kings.

eferees—Dr. Leon Fluck, J. W. Allen, Dr
J. J. McDonald. 7a

The play-off between the two sections will
most likely be held at Amherst not later than
Nov. 15th.

M. F’, M. Meek, Mt. Allison, was appointed
eae and a S. Coster, Secretary of the
Conference, alhousie was represented b
Charles Baxter. : r

 

_ The Tigers had a hard practice last week,
in preparation for their game on Saturday,
when they clashed with the Nova Scotia Tech
team. Although three trys were scored
against them the Engineers put up a great
game. Dal used a majority of second team
forwards. An unfortunate accident occurred
when Reid of the Tech fell and broke his
ankle. He was removed to the Hospital.

Can you tell me the correct time?’’
Sorry, but my watch is an hour slow.’’

 

U. S. C. Welcomes King’s.
As an official weleome to King’s ‘students

the annual Dalhousie Students Council Dance

was given this year on the evening of Oct. 4.

Pres. Leonard Fraser welcomed the guests in

an appropriate speech. Account of this

dance came in too late for publication in the —
This is the affair

last issue of the Gazette.

which the Evening Mail of Oct. 6 ascribed

yg to the Students’ Christian Assoation. |

THE HOME OF

ATHLETIC GOODS

Including Spalding’s
Famous Goods.
Football and Track Outfits.
Here you will find men of
your own age and interests

to serve you with things you
want at prices you can pay. —

  

 

? ct if Se ee
: by oe PRG

‘

  
  

‘ t
A
Pr

 

*
us
4

       

:

hd

‘ :
ey
. ;
u

ry

Ps

t i

i

*
y
 

 

 

7
my

i- 4 yrs rye Ar 2 ee Ty = r = - ©
ale # 4 a yay And aie re Te if 4 oe i e
: . ve fe S ‘ibaa het 2 ye J , ay 7 ‘

? &» w

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Kliff’s Krazy Kuts

Evening Mail ad.—‘Room for student
near Dalhousie, reasonable if willing to mind
child some evenings.’’

Page Bill Gunn!

 

 

Who was the Dal professor that invaded a
neighboring college recently and after being
inspected by the girls was told by them that
he was ‘‘just too cute’’?

 

Have you read Shakepeare’s works?
Oh yes! but he hasn’t been writing any
new ones lately.

 

Raz—‘‘ King’s certainly brought some Queens

here.”’
Taz—'‘ Yes, but it will take some jack to go

with them.”’

Dr. F. V.—‘‘What movement takes place
in the second stage of choloroform, when the

eyelid is raised ?’’
‘T'r-n-r—‘‘The eyelid moves.’

 

Turnbull (at phone)—‘‘I’ll give you a ring
on Monday.’’ (!?.)

 

Freshman who went to buy soap:

Shopkeeper—‘‘ Will you have it scented or
unscented.’’

Freshie—‘‘Oh, I’ll take it with me.’’

 

Prof.—A fool can ask more questions than
@ wise man can answer.

Student—No wonder so many of us get
plucked.

 

It was one of those evenings when romance
seems to hold the world in a light, but firm
grip. Outside the leaves which but now had
stood out so fresh and green, touched by the
magic hand of spring, were turning to red
and russet shades of gold. There was a touch
of frost in the air, and inside the drawingroom a fire was burning brightly in the grate.

On the ottoman Phyllis. was reclining, her
dainty toes stretched out to the blaze, her
eyes now blue, now an irridescent grey in the
flickering firelight. Kneeling by her side, one
could vaguely discern the figure of the ador
ing Algernon
4 Darling,” ” he whispered— ‘darling will

you marry me
‘*Yes,’’ she replied dreamily—‘‘
have no bananas today !’’

we

ooo

| Bob ] ohnson's
| Two Barber Shops
| FIRST CLASS SERVICE

 

FREE FOOTBALL FOR
STUDENTS.

- The chief item of business transacted at the

first regular meeting of the Council of the
Students, held Thursday evening last in the
Munro Room, was the budget. Estimates
were submitted by the various student organizations and these were discussed by the
meeting.

‘he following initial grants were voted :—
D.A.A.C., $1500; D.G.A.C., $100; Glee and
Dramatie Club, $3800; Delta Gamma, $50;
-Sodales, $300; Girls’ S.C.A., $50. The Dalhousie Gazette was granted $912 for the session and the budget of the Skating Club was
deferred until a later date as there is no
present need for funds by that institution.

At the completion of this business Prof.
Murray MaeNceill, chairman of the Advisory
Committee, expressed his satisfaction with the
policy adopted by the Council in dealing
with the funds of the students.

A vacancy on the Finance Committee of the
Council was filled by the election of A. M.
Matheson (Law ’24) to that office.

Reports of the Hand Book and Dance
Committees were read and adopted.

Applications to hold dances in the Gymnasium were received from the Medical Society,
Dental Society and the Sophomore class.
These were granted. The  Freshie-Soph
dance will take place Oct. 31 and the Dental
dance immediately after the Christmas
vacation.

It was decided that as the King’s College
students were desirous of obtaining certain
privileges of the D.A.A.C, and Skating Club
that $8 per capita would be their fair share
of the upkeep of these activities. For that
sum all. K.C.A.A. men will have the same
athletic privileges as D.A.A.C. members and
also use of the Skating Club. This does not
include intercollegiate sport as King’s have
entered teams in that branch.

Qn motion,
financial side of the subject, it was decided
that the 25 cent admission fee payable by students for football games, be discontinued.

The remainder of the three hours was spent

 

4n a prolonged discussion of regulations gov
erning Dalhousie dances,

 

THE FOOTBALL SEASON,

oe

Jimmy just came home from college in a plas-—

ter cast;
Got his academic knowledge just a bit too fast.
He was Oe with erudition, Sanscrit, Greek

1 such,
But he’s not in a condition to employ it much.
Father saved, so little Willie high degrees

might get. |
Buta tee noked hm illy—and he's sil qe
His attainments will be zero, his oe |

But he wat 8 allege hero for an hour o tw,

—— mI sory : shag Sg

nae oy Pe. "i i ae tee 5 gee a
Te ea Ly "i <i
‘ NS r my ta Pt
ad f os

7 : ;

after a consideration of the

 

bt ent ee aS
Sige

——

—THE—

Young Man’s Store

 

 

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and inspect our stock
before purchasing.

 

 

 

Barrington Street

W. F. PAGEBezinrzs St

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

R. J. LEARY

THE CLEANER
Cor Argyle and Sackville Sts.

Economize in your Pressing by buying: a

Strip of Four Tickets for $2.00.

Each ‘ticket entitles you to have a Suit or
Overcoat Sponged and Pressed.

Our Regular Rate is 75¢ a Suit

WE ALSO DO DYEING, DRY-CLEANING,
REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.

Phone Sack 2054

en

The College Girl
Likes A Hat

that combines style, quality, modesty
and economy. Call o see our smart
‘*Dal’” shapes.

Turner's -Millinery
96 Gottingen Ste’

BELT LINE CAR 3 f

bak! ST YE Talos

aay Ine : } nil ue ‘ : :
oa ae | A ~# an
* aaa pin’ ye a ct re
0 i eT ee ra it. mit +
oy | tin oy apy
eh P Pads
Meee Se Fe a “
an" ® Peetie | OS Ok, an |

Nhe + Sak Eas 6; |
> ae ie _ Na he
a si rn . Ps \ |

 

 

3

 
