 

 

 

VOL. LV.

The Dalbouste Gazette
Founded 1869

Issued Weekly - - - ~- One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - - - + - + J. GORDON FOGO

 

    

Associate Editors
Roberta Forbes iss A McK:
ee Comer D. C. Go moe
A, Cesiobtch, BA. BR Deigioeh
P. M. Cassidy
Dili Mii i. ks ce BD Betd, B A
; Reporters
A. C. Milner D, R. Webster, B.A.
Overseas Correspondent - - J. A. Dunlop, B.A,
Staff Artists
Miss Rose Leslie C. W. Currie

_ BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.
_ 129 Spring Garden Road

an ee and advertising accounts payto the Business Manager.

 

f ne rues of our hokey ‘eam in
e games play year is a source
f satisfaction to e nk student in the
niversity le leadership of
Cap! ain Bates, they have exhibited that
Ih pees and desire to

   

   

    

  

for the promotion of the
iat the toa, tint is bound

on and combination
along the sretea iad

oe 2 "he "

ance - ed

ae Bo - ~ spe

ce Vr Weide § 55

1, nee ant : Wey k
* *

ei

oy at

 
  

  

n rk |
| ps * ae 8B
d Se a

Tre ey f y' pease s of

w 7 si
@ of TI sole e a
are , oa aa ” > ot . * mga c sls ees
~ Pel - ea , ib 3 -~ é _

 

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 7, 1923

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Gazette wishes to acknowledge
receipt of subscriptions from the fol
lowing:

Misses Merle Colpitt, Jean K. Dunlop, Sybil McLean, Dr. Fraser Harris,

J. R. NICHOLSON.
Business Manager.

SENIOR FEED.
The ual Senior Feed took place
in the Murray Homestead on Wednesday evening last.’ The Co-eds were out

 

in force and enjoyed the very plenteous.

repast provided for them.

SOPH SLEIGH DRIVE.

The Sophomores held a very successful sleigh drive on Wednesday evening
last. The weather conditions were ideal
for such an outing and the drive to the
Wayside Inn where supper and dancing
was enjoyed was the class event of the

 

°

- COLLEGE COMMENT

What a wonderful thing is a university! If we were temporarily sojourning at the North Pole or any quiet place
where we had time to think occasionally we might realize the infinite variety
of the good things which now often go
unheeded.’ A bewildering array of special lectures, given eet theres most
undergraduates are free, y men

who are authorities on their subjects,
is at the service . the student.
! Varsity.

heard of
es Ba Sine

 

Bt -fesag neerned, it

y ay
4 T ic

; | i a “+B ) nen. But ag

. sy

K Aga eae Te on ie ea Bee mie

i Chk: +t 1d
a ages oe ae ; 7 ak
be Ue A Pt a a lc
ny » : rt \ 4
xh Ae rh ¥ a 7 = ~ ativel, Bye
Beat Ke “gh ey
oe f rut ‘ts fa
a i = ber
r L i iu n wit? \ aes , = , eu = ¢
- tv, — 2 .

 

“F inals” 7 To-night

When Acadia and Dalhousie meet on

the platform at an early date, it, will be
the meeting of two old rivals, each in
tent on victory. Acadia’s record in debating circles is such that ‘‘The College

by the Sea’’ will have to have het three ©

best men on the team that meets the men
from. Wolfville. The Dalhousie repre
sentatives will be selected at the trials |

to-night, which will be held in the auditorium of the School for the Blind, commiencing at 8 o’clock. Some prominent
Dalhousian will preside and a record attendance is expected,

The subject, ‘‘Resolved, that the ap
peal to the Judicial Committee of the
Privy Council be abolished,” is one of
practical interest, and one that affects
every Canadian. It is a problem that
faces the growing nationhood of Canada
and. that sooner or later must be defintiely settled.

A glance at the names of the speakers
ensures the quality and standard of the
debate. All the speakers have been
prominent in Dal social and scholastic
life, and at the trials all have shown a
thorough and comprehensive knowledge
of the subject.

W. S. Gilchrist, who opens the debate
for the affirmative, is well known in Dal
debating circles.
Medical profession for Theology. He

was leader of the Medical team that won
the Inter-faculty trophy this year and is

leader of the Volunteer Band.

L. W. Fraser, first apeakor for the r ‘‘Tien’’ ! a li

negative, needs no introduction.

4 iad te!
veg
seta
“ ¥2 Piel

: md
Se
rhs aly ¥
RE
i

“Sid” has left the

a ela ie eae
Ve ae nll s at at
© Pe hee i =, 
 

ate ete :

—
a — n
a a ae. et ee

ree,

    
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
  
 
  
   
  
    
 
    
 


sy

    
     
      
     
     
  
      
   
       
      
 
 

never fails to give an instructive and in
ited against St. F.

the he fen ht db
last

ve ai “We
== . ia) a re , 7 4
nett a te ar A. Lee _ *
\ ’ fi is
C ; , LO a he
fon k >, at he! AG tae TiwWe i
Ml

He was a member : 4

   
    
 ] as BF TT We TK. 5 TRE TR ae, 7 erase 7. Wiw7 ta a Fw 7 RAYE) Ses Wa IR OW = = - sa > = — = = pipes
Dee BREE heh meee HS) IN) Rei Ream hl Pipe Woh ends REF iy? AERP CMB ace Ne Oe Laer coe ana Lae P- EEE Le AIT Le TE: TRANSL OIE I os . : j iyo
eats ee Re ORR Ee Mae eee wn PA Ne eh eR TR Lert tees eye Ny EE a he a AE See cee Wey ee. ee ‘ :
3 ~% e ” : * :

Oe Ve a oe ee y , be ak pont ee nN ea Py.
‘ a Ye ia ae ee MN I ne x ¥ a Ve fe * N ho ul pie

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 3
; a ee a

é —————

 

 

9 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

“Poetry And Patriotism.”

The opportunity of hearing one of the
foremost educationists in the British
Empire is a privilege not often afforded even to students of Canadian Universities and it was therefore to be expected
that a large gathering of the students
would greet Sir Henry Newbolt on
appearance at the gymnasium last §
urday noon. This distinguished poet,
statesman and educationist has come
to Canada on invitation of the Educational Council of the Dominion to awaken interest in the broader aspects of national education. During the course of
the winter Sir Robert Baden-Powell
and Sir Michael Sadler, K. C., will tour
Canada on the same mission.

President MacKenzie occupied the
chair and introduced Sir Henry who
spoke on ‘*Poetry and Patriotism’’.
‘*Patriotism is the poetry of the nation’’,
asserted the speaker, ‘‘and poetry is the
forming of new worlds. By means of
poetry one is taken out of all external
circumstances and placed in a new
sphere created by the poet for his own
purpose. The poet is impelled by his
own ideas to continue to make new
worlds, herein differing from the scientist who compares, weigh and measures and transforms impressions of the
actual world into thought.”

‘The one thing that makes a nation
is the possession of common ideals, and
ideals vanish when poetry goes out of
the lives of the people of any country.
The two things we must have are devotion to our country and the encouragement of that element of pride and admiration for the great men of the race.
A national ideal must be fostered but
this does not necessarily mean that true
patriotism will separate one nation from

 

ceived by all people, of what sort of a

|
|

| Changed from

| Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd.
| ____ TWO STORES

| 26 Spring Garden Road
119 Young Street

GENERAL DRY GOODS
READY TO WEAR

MILLINERY and CUSTOM TAILORING.
| Correct Styles. -Lowest Prices.

Moirs Chocolates

the famous confection of Dalhousie
students for generations, because
they are the freshest, have the most |
varied fillings, and are covered by
the most’ delicious eating.

HON. W. J. O’HEARN, K. C.

Attorney-General for Nova Scotia
and Lecturer on Crimes at Dalhousie
Law School,

country they want. Patriotism should

be as strongly felt during times of peace

as during the dark days of war. Our

thoughts must ever be with Blake,

I will not cease from mental fight,

Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand.

Till we have built Jerusalem

Within our broad and bounteous land.’’
C. 8. R.

Overseas Club Essay.

An announcement of the list of subjects has been made for the Halifax
Overseas Club Essay, value fifty-five
dollars, ($55.00) to which reference is

MOIRS LIMITED, Argyle St.

[ALLEN’S

   

   

BOOKS ON SCIEN ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Sects Bagincet Bapelies of

upp .
all kinds,

 
 
 

|| Jensen & Mills Co., Ltd.

 

    

| THE LEADING BOOKSTORE

Pine Hill Post

We always thought that Danny Mc
Cuish was going to be a sailor, but at
last his natural bent has asserted itself
and he has commenced his career as a
lion tamer. This latest quality of his,
lying dormant for so long, was discovered when he captured a squirrel the
other day and has successfully tamed it.
This former ferocious animal is now one
of the family and will be exhibited gratis,

Another narrow shave—Morris Kirn
was to his Island home last week as best
man at a wedding and he is still wearing
the white tie. Our representative inter.
viewed him regarding conditions on
‘The Island’ and he reports a very severe winter, with the snow thirty-six feet
deep in spots. In fact conditions were
so bad that he missed the wedding altogether.

On Monday night the city chess club
was out and played against Pine Hill,
when we were severely walloped. Great
Chief Victor Walls has arranged for a
return match to be played next Tuesday
evening. This mystic and occult diversion has been gaining many adherents
this year and some real champions are in
the making.

One can detect a suppressed excitement among the boys these days. The
pope and bishop are of the opinion that
is due to the coming At Home, but the
cardinal and scribe believe it is the ap”
proach of the Delta Gamma dance, Several factors contributed to this conclusion. The freshmen seem to be the most
worried, while Larry and Si Britton and
some more of these hounds are going
about with very satisfied airs and appear quite content with the world in general.

However, aside from these few little
observations life at the residence has

“Table d’Oats”

It was about this part of the year
nineteen-nineteen when so many Canadians were practicall killing time in
France, Belgium anDoven Germany,
awaiting a chance to return to Canada.
Among the units completely submerged
in brass polish and _ its accompanying
parades and the like, was a Canadian
Heavy Battery stationed in a little town
along the river Meuse. Like all outfits
relying upon horses for transportation,
one of its great difficulties was to protect the oats supply from the natives.
Rarely a night passed that some sub:section was not the victim of petty thievery,

To make the town more desirable the
Germans had conveniently left two thousand barrels of wine and about a like
number of bags of sugar along the river
bank, Those were guarded by a company of Canadian Infantry and, as would
be expected, the Belgian civilians could
purchase either sugar or wine at a substantial consideration and take it away
under cover of the night.

It was on a pitch dark night, well
adapted to the stealing of oats, or the
buyiny’ of wine, that a singnaller of the
battery was foreed to do his turn at
stable picket, and, as luck would have 1
after being called at 1.15 a.m., he took
another snooze and when he was next
awake it was 2.30. Visions of missing
oats blurred the first part of his walk to
the horse lines, some distance away,
when out of the darkness stepped four
Belgians—each with a bag of oats on his
shoulder. Accosted, they stopped and
offered to pay generously for their burdens, but what good was cash to a Canadian when in the morning the 0. C. would
be holding ‘‘office’’ and the oats would
still be missing ? So with the aid of a
‘‘gat’’ (revolver) he started them back

times on their way home and the final
cost was merely 425 francs a bag—and
even at that they sold it again at a profit.

 

University Hall

It would seem odd, to say the least,
if among ninety fellows in residence
there were no music lovers, Such is not
the case at University Hall, N early all
are music lovers, but perhaps some are
able to express their love in more concrete form than others.

Pianists are the most numerous, and
at the top of the list may be found such
artists as Thurrott, DeWolfe, Woodill
and Peters. Besides being a pianist,
Johnny Thurrott is an accomplished violinist. DeWolfe and Woodill are best at
dance music, Henry being famed for his
perfect time, and Roy for his Harry
Thomas effects. Warren Peters produces classical music whose beauty is ex:
ceelled only by his radiant countenance.

Among the stars of lesser magnitude

may be found Popplestone and Alex.
Guthro.

The dance also has its exponents at

_ the Hall. Allie Thompson is probably
/ the nearest thing to Irene Castle. When

he is nestling in the arms of Laurie
Fogo, ‘‘nothing could be sweeter than to
be in Carolina in the morning, ’’

The first: billiard tournament since
Christmas is gradually approaching an
end. One or two surprises have occurred, Henry Borden, a dark horse, has
put out some of the best men, and at
the time of writing Prof. McGregor Dawson appears to be going strong.

During the cold spell, the boys have
been enjoying the ice on the Arm, Dinty
Moore went one better, and managed to
enjoy a little water also; up to his neck,
you know. He is now getting dryer and

towards the horse lines, not failing to dryer every day.

notice that they insisted on resting What do you know ? Charlie Baxter
against the fence every hundred yards or has developed an absent-minded streak.
so and at each rest repeated their will- One Sunday afternoon,’ not long ago, ingness to pay up. At one of these when he was ‘‘going out to pour’’ some
ben most uneventful the last couple of
weeks. Pine Hill has almost become a
synonym for tranquility, but still waters
run deep and you may be sure that some
sunny day some fish will dart from the

 

| another. Rather it will work to the
f highest good of all nations.” _

: ‘If prose has the poetic quality then
es it has the quality of making and poetry
id could be as well written in prose. The

Commercial and Society Stationery.
—Waterman’s Fountain Pens—

T. C. ALLEN & CO.

made in the University Calendar in the
following terms: |

‘For the best essay on some question, historical or critical, relating to

     
     
 

 

 

   
  

A | the place of the Overseas Dominions in : stops, while their ‘‘guard’’ stood on the where, he forgot to shave one side of his

oe: eee a ee lity and fect = the British Commonwealth.” | RO eee ea oan ay tly ci ost aber side of the tend, another Canadian face. Not having discovered his negli
i always the poetic quality wee “ eat THCTS FOR 1928 7 stepped up and proceeded to do business gence until he was outside, he rushed

K not a ee but as Mini initeiolen of LIST OF SUB tla | | ; i] with the boss of the gang and upon being back to finish the job, That was the Way gs
i, | sf witty language. ' of poetry are ef. _ The value of Halifax in the growth | | asked by the Artilleryman what he want- they found him, with his hat, coat and hy Seater inked ‘th late 4 and of the British Empire. YOUR DRUGGISTS UNIVERSITY HALL | ed, replied ““Oh—so you are in on this muffler on, a bib stuck under his collar,
ca forded by incidents of the ty ail d The value of the British Empire in MACLEOD. & B ALCOM too’. ‘*Inon nothing”, he came back— and a heavy coat, of lather on one side a
i pane etter Cinae as Scaiiors Seen ld - maintaining the peace of the world. | ! MEN’S RESIDENCE | ‘These blamed Froggies have gotten of his face. ‘But say, we had a wona in lines which have created new worlds. The political and social development LIMITED | away with my oats and I’m getting it derful time in Toronto,.’’ A. ©, M. NN
. | Bae works of -Phomas ae A ere of New Zealand. | | SOUTH END PHARMACY | back’, “Oats” fairly shrieked the : Be
5D with a courageous pity nda es The place of India in the Empire. : Morris Street, There are still a few good rooms |] stranger, ‘‘That isn’t oats—it’s sugar’, Say, boys, did you get your bid to “the =
fe Bee ene preteens Be oe Pee oa. Canada’s contribution to the stabil- WEST END PHARMACY available for students, Rate |] After a good laugh he continued, ‘But social event of the season”? a
which tug the heart strings with a ity of the Empire. Spring Garden Road. $875 <p Bek Hoatic you are here first,—demand about 50 “a
i ternal pain. ~o.(0 per week. pplication | “Has the 8. C. A, any new wine?” This is - is

 

The problem of Imperial preference he ) |
enry declared his sym- in trade relations. e oat eit ater bs | ae be nage we ee to
pathy for France but stated his belief | Canada’s influence - in_preserv: | OC me BG ane Manager, . W. Nisbet, or
that she has not yet become aware of a pore between the British Empire and jf} ol PHARMACY | ij to any of the members of the
re” national ideal. Continuing he added Bagel te aig 1 7 ‘in the | by By a of Qui : 7 \ Ron 4 "i i ei ve . i , i es de ni ; i :
iii, Mint Ht bo not race, nor religion oF ger. iy of heh eee, A ee /h ae ee.
ernment and history which we ey Chin aad ae Jt =

franes a bag or exposure and I will meet :

them down the road and get my share.’’ the question bothering H. A. Cr - - ght—. (Boy,
The following day after the books had page, Mr. Tracey.)

apparently been balanced, it became : eg

known that each bag of sugar had cost Freshman (observing ©. Killem and Mr,

85 frances at the dump, our Belgian Pitt in conversation) —“Are those the Wan
friends had ben stopped no less than six derers?” | a

 

 

eg and history makes a namo? ¥ . f - Ce ‘ ‘ ™ z 7 : 4 _ .
ao.) ¥.2 i ‘ ' ; Shean, | : =%
is na + on s Me oe es © it biel ed RS
— = 7 py A. . % ; ; 7 > oe ah Fad + Ps - faye. eat ay, ps tig ~ + ' 3 ey . % , ey Eh f r . = .f , '. ‘ a 7 o
aa : 2 ; = é 3 sal a ‘ fie ’y. Fn ee oS dt i 5 * Taha ee | Sal we =, ta H i re = Wy a} ye ee st Rye
= as ines 5 ol z ' aaah 7 we i; ee oe) ¥ a te +i pe 4) ey Ef» OE Tele 3) j 6 Baad: 4 LF adl
ee iz : ne 4 ? taf 4 P 5, e ; } ; / +8 Aad Z a a % oi iis = teal “ae ba rise, a fi aE 4 r 4 mae be y eae ” ; by i 7 ba, ; : ss 4
i a : i“ els, te f Pty 4 ees ie re be rc eae 4 ’ ai apy ; S . i t
iL 3p Sj bial pal al, See ie elles apie : 1 P

= a Pig. es dd. ; Ms

oy 4\ f tidy): < 2 2 f - < , + 4 Ee = vt 5 4
a ue di. et cri =, eer pe SF, Bia j=, Mba ie, vid
| bs Pes ‘- | dai 1 cee 7 = Biba t| " Bf | aes Jeary? ae 4 Pi b jae
ae = "4 F ; } (a : = |. oe 2 "we. a. * 4 vy d oo a ne Pa ot
cae | — ag Fae = d ; 44'S | ee i

5 ae ae oh x Re tah, tees as wt y

ee ee le Te A ' a]

* 2
4'¢ my a }! Tad ae =f
n = = i a bh

et ee a
‘ ot ail = Oa + i TTP Aa Te AIRS ae oP Oe hore ae TE Ee
: re : . ’ ey) aa

“THE DALH

aioe at Tha ee Lae =e
* * ,-+ nA } art . i“ , — ’ my
y . ; ae 17

: f

4

anne
eed ——$—SS

 

ee ee
ee - — _

Music and Fatigue
By J. D. Logan, Ph, D., Litt. D.

If I had been asked to write a long
and searching essay on Musical Aesthet
ganization, architecture; and it was what
is known as ‘‘monophonie’’, which
means that it was constructed of several
melodies, which enter the program at
proper times, and are supported by harmonies that are in the same tonality or

ics, I should begin with matters that are. key as the melodies. On the subjective

quite unmusical ; I should recommend my
readers not to read my essay until they
had first carefully studied ‘‘ Nerves,” by
Dr. Fraser Harris and some late work
on Neural Pathology. For I can conceive no other method of compelling a
right appreciation of Classical Music except by orientating the neural conditions
in men and women of the present day,
that have made possible the ‘‘musical
booze’? which we get from ‘the ‘‘jazz
composers’’ of our time, and the ‘‘musieal confectionery’’ which we got from
Debussy and his ilk, and the ‘musical
realism’? which we got from Richard
Strauss, and the ‘‘musical sensationalism” which we got from Liszt and Berlioz, and the ‘‘musical perfume”’ which
we got from Chopin and Mendelsohn,
and the ‘musical emotionalism’’ we got
from Schumann, and so on, till, under
conditions of pure imagination and pure
intellect in men, I should come to the
true Romantic Composers and the true
Classical Composers, the former having
given us music that expressed the heart
and soul; the latter, music which ex
pressed the sheer mind in men.

All other distinctions between Classical and Romantic music are fluid. On
the objective side, the instrumental
music of the true classical composers,
namely, Haydn, Mozart, and the early
Beethoven is strictly music which was
precise and regular in f ormal design, or
| GIFT SUGGESTIONS

) A comprehensive assortment of

side, classical music (as composed by
Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven), is very
much to be appreciated by the intellectual perception of its nicety in formal
structure and by the feelings of delight
such perception awakens and the feelings of gentle joy and serenity of soul
it engenders in the listener’s soul, Now
it requires considerable musical learning
to appreciate the structure of mono
phonie music, and a self-possessed simple joy in life and peace of conscience,
to respond sympathetically and understandingly to such music. We in the first
quarter of the twentieth century have
not the required musical learning, and
certainly not the inward contentment
with self and all things else to find it
easy to appreciate classical music.
Therefore, as Wm, James used to say,
let us have the courage to ‘‘chuck’’ classical symphonies, overtures, concertos
and sonatas as being for us a nuisance.

What music, then, shall we turn to ?
To Romantic music, of course. But romantic music—the instrumental music of
the later Beethoven, Schubert, Shumann,
Mendelsohn, Chopin, Weber, Berlioz,
Liszt—is only classical music broadened
so as to include more of the sensuous
and emotional feelings of men than did
the pure intellectualized music of Haydn,
Mozart and the early Beethoven. The
symphonies, concertos, overtures and
‘sonatas of the Romantic composers also
require for appreciation great musical
learning; but because it contains much

of sensuous harmonies and much use of
tonal dynamics, people listen to these
romantic compositions, not because they
understand the structure or feel what
the composers felt and tried to express,
but’ because they enjoy the ‘‘musical
candy’’ in the sensuous harmonies, the
‘‘big noise’’ in the tonal climaxes. Romantic music is merely, first, ‘‘freer’’ in
form than classical (though founded on
classical form) and, secondly, powerful
over the senses and emotions.

Theen came the modern composers—
Strauss with his sensational realism;
next Debussy with his ultra-refined sybaritism; .and, finally, at present, the
‘rag’? and the ‘‘jazz’’? composers with
their musical ‘‘booze’’. The last are indeed musical ‘‘bootleggers’’. And they
satisfy ‘‘the people’’ (whoever they are)
because under late modern social and industrial conditions human beings have
become nervous wrecks, and must have
violent stimulants, to respond at all to
tone. Jazz is the proof of complete
human fatigue, neural and spiritual.

The Gregorian Chant.
(By Theodore Sangar, A.R.C.O.)

In the ‘‘Motu proprio” on Church
Music, issued in 1904, the Holy Father,
Pius X, made it very clear that the modern Masses of Hadyn, Mozart, Beethoven, etc., were to be excluded from the
official music of the Roman Catholic
Church, and that the Gregorian Chant,
as practised previous to the seventeenth
century, was to be the only music officially recognized.

This Gregorian Chant takes its name
from Pope Gregory, but the basic principle of the Chant was in existence long
before his time. There is ample evidence

, in the history of music to show that the

attractive Gifts, rare in

uality and reasonable in prices, are to be found in Birks

ear Book.

i

We make School and Class Pins, submitting sketches. on

- request, giving an estimate of cost before proceeding with

the work.

eight regular church modes, as used today, are derived from the two-octave
scale of the ancient Greeks. In fact the

-names of the first, third and fifth modes
of today—Dorian, Phrygian and Lydian
—were the names of three of the chief
Greek melodies, called after the cities
of the same names,

Aristoxenus, the oldest writer on

-musie whose works have come down to
us, and who lived in 340 B. C., mentions

the Greek scale and shows that in place

of notes, alphabetical letters were used.

 

  

THE GREGORIAN CHANT,
(Continued from page 4).

notation. It is generally supposed tha
Our Lord and His Disciples nee one of
the Passover psalms to the traditional
‘“Tonus Peregrinus’’ at the Last Supper. This is the chant used for the ‘‘In
exitu,’’ the fifth psalm of the Sunday
Vespers.

The first attempt to organize the
Church music was made by St. Ambrose
who, about 384 A. D., set in order the
music to be used at his Cathedral Church
of Milan, and provided many new hymns
some of which are still in use. He is also
supposed to have formed the four Authentic Modes (or First, Third, Fifth
and Seventh as we know them), but of
this no definite proof is to be found.
These Modes were in use in the fourth
century, and it was not until St. Gregory’s time that the other four were
added. Pope Gregory (690 A.D.) took
the four upper notes of the Authentic
Mode and placed them below the first,
so making a new scale but retaining the
same final, or key note. The four modes
thus formed are the Plagal, or Second
Fourth, Sixth and Highth. On these
eight Modes,the whole of the Gregorian
Chant is baked. St, Gregory founded a
Singing School in Rome, and sent teachers from there to spread his system all

_ over the then known world, and for three

hundred years Gregorian Chant was at’
its best.

From the year 1000 A. D. a gradual
falling off began to take place, until
from 1600 to 1800 A. D. the Chant was
despised as the production of a barbarous age. It was left to the nineteenth
century to witness the beginning of the
great revival which, by the labors of
Pope Pius X and the Monks of Solesmes,
is being crowned with so much success.

The dog fancier was called in to see

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE | ji

 

The Evolution of The Romantic his music drama Tristan and Isolde

And Modern Schools of Music
By John Comeron, M .D., D. Sc.

The classical school of Music is usually regarded as having closed with

the death of Beethoven in 1827. This

school was so named because its devotees adhered to classical convention in

constructing their sonatas, symphonies,
concertos, ete., upon a definite architecural plan. As a sort of protest against
its rigid conventional manner of treating music, the romantic school of music
was founded, with such pioneers as Schubert, Schumann, Weber, Chopin, and
Mendelsohn. The main principle underlying their compositions was, that the
human emotions could be interpreted in
the form of what might be termed tonepoems. They were therefore convinced
that the turmoil of life in its varying
phases, the human passions, the comedy
and the tragedy of existence, could all be
successfully portrayed in music as tonepaintings. How successful these brilliant composers were, we can readily
gather from the splendour of their creations, which after the lapse, in many
cases, of nearly a century, have lost none
of their freshness, originality and
charm. Inded, these five great masters
still take rank amongst the most popular of all composers. For example a
vote was taken last winter in Glasgow
Scotland, as to the finest of all the symphonies, and as a_ result Schubert’s
‘“‘Unfimshed’’ was placed easily first.
Moreover who will deny the fact that
Chopin is still the greatest of all composers for the piano?

The natural outeome of the inouen
exerted by the Romantic school was the
evolution of the Modern school of music.
In the old'days the classical school existel in only three countries, Now every

exemplifies the sublime consummation
between love and death, while his great
tetralogy the Ring of the Niebelung displays the figure of inevitable Destiny
for ever hovering over our terrestrial
existence. The modern Seandinavian
school has exhibited remarkable progress in the hands of such masters as
Grieg and Sinding, who have been most
successful in portraying the national
sentiment of these northern latitudes in
the form of tone-poems—exquisite, some
of them. The modern Italian school is
reminiscent of the hot blood of the south.
As a result it is rich in music drama of
posers as Verdi and Puccini have worthintense fatality and tragedy. Such comily upheld the great traditions of this
land of melody. The French and British
schools of music are comparatively modern creations, but in the hands of such
masters as Gounod, Debussy, Saint
Saens, Sullivan, Coleridge—Taylor and
Klgar, their traditions and prestige have
ben enhanced in the highest degree. May
the writer, in conclusion, express the
fervent hope that here in Canada, we
may be stimulated to provide our just
and proper contribution to the world
of song, and thereby fulfil our musical
— with both honour and distineion.

PERSONALS

F. H. Bell, K.C., lecturer on P
bell, K.C., artnerships in the Law School, is at
present in the West Indies on a short
vacation.

 

Professor Hugh Bell has been confined to his home for several days with
an attack of la grippe.

 

Dr. J. D. Logan left last week for
oronto, where he will arrange the
final details of the publication of his

the twins of his neighbor. After glane- country has develo i “Lif :
int ped its own cha Lite and Works of Jos Howe’?
ing from one to the other, as if sum- teristic school. It was in fact inevitable his monographs on Halibarton and Nor

a . = merits of each, he finally
pointed to the one on the right, sayin
‘*That’s the one I’d keep.’’ m= ys

ALPHA, BETA Sx Sas
Alphabet, but won't you
learn the Alphabet from a music dealer's text book.
~ Tt starts like this:— j

 

 

 

that each race, if it possessed any pride
of country at all should be otinralated
to interpret its national sentiments, its
character, and its ambitions in the form
of harmony and counterpoint. ‘The Russian school of music has been the most
successful in this respect, and that is
why it is the strongest of all the modern
schools. The dominant note there is one

wood. While in that city he will ad
ree a eee Literature Club on
adian Relations in

Canadian Literature’’, oe eee

 

Dr. J. G. MeDougall left early thi
week for New York, where he ‘ola the
Clinical Congress of the American
College of Surgeons, which leaves Feb
ruary 10th for South America. This

  

      
   

   

    

bi A Copy of the Birks Year Book will be mailed on request. These melodies, once learnt, were handed of -sa ihtives and pathos, a Sablon on: bs
Bs | down orally from generation to genera’ released from the engirdling shackles of a which will include over 200
el tion until, in the ninth century, the first EVERYTHING IN SHERT MUSIC. medievalism. The great feature of the e a of the College, will make a tour
a Seedhonts attempt at a system of notation was a modern school has been the development 21,2. °U! 14,000 miles. They will visit
oe onde. ‘Tile N 1 carry 4 nice line of . pment most of the South ee lal
Bi . This was the Neume System and Harrison Fisher's Maxfield Parrish’s, ete. of the music drama (I hate the word whore ecjent; h American cities,
De consisted of a number of — resemb- We Invite You to Join Our opera). The greatest exponent of this } at te conferences will be
mi ling the shorthand of today. These signs § ff || Lending Society, 2c per day. form of composition was Wagner, the ited, tropical and medical schools visoy served to direct the singer when to raise = if J. A. McDONALD PIANO founder of the modern German school, al for diseases studied, and a ~ —
by or lower his voice, and many of the if & MUSI | and in the writer's estimation, the great. ferween the visnes ae ee Be
Ps : roper of est musical master of all time. He was confreres. Dr, Ross Miller, of ema

armouth, .. —

_ able to interpret the human emotions in herst, and Dr, Lovatt, of
m the p ote ea

the most intense degree. For example will also be in ty..

5 7
a

od
ee ea

* Py
¢ : 2
i a - ¥ ¥ ‘
- ee me ye lee = eee ; 7% _ pra tk > a> :
SS a ta wrsgeee Deutiin ce See
, a \ ' ‘ yr at % . = Lae “hae Lf "Yr
; dx A i 4, ag: y ie wns i
‘ o a : —— * en ¢ ke
i woud ae | at te Masi! we sah
can ae H
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

AT THE MAJESTIC

The F. James Carroll Players are
presenting at the Majestic this week
that wonderful melodrama, ‘“'The
Storm’’, by Langdon McCormick. Two
of the many big effects of this performance are the snow blizzard and forest
fire scenes, which are produced in a
manner go realistic that the spectator
can hardly believe that they are merely
stage effects created by clever artists
and experienced electrical operators.
‘The Storm’’ is one of the ‘‘events’’ of
this season.

NOTICE

The first session of the Dalhousie
Mock Parliament will be held in the
Munro Room on Thursday evening,
February 8th. All students and their
friends are invited.

 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
       

THRIFT

CONSISTS IN
SPENDING LESS
THAN YOU EARN.

 
         
         
 
      

  
 

If by careful economy you can save

   
   
 

   
 
    
  
   
     
  
     

money, you have
taken a long step
toward contentment.
We pay interest on
Savings balances and
shall welcome your

account.

   
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
  

   
  

The Canadian
Bank

of Commerce

OVERSEAS CLUB ESSAY.
(Continued from page 2).
The expansion of ‘‘England’’.

The requirements demand that the
essay shall not exceed 5000 words in

length. They must be typed, and sub
mitted in a sealed envelope inscribed
with the subject of the essay and an assumed name or motto. All essays must
be handed in to the University office on
or before the last day of March, 1923.

 

STUDENTS SPOKE

The service at St. Andrew’s church
on Sunday evening last was largely under the direction of the University S.
C. A. Addresses were made by Misses
Hunter and Harvey and Messrs. C. R.
Baxter and H. Creighton. The
speakers dealt particularly with their
recent visit to the great General Conference held in Toronto. Mr. Robert
Wilder, secretary of the World Chris
tian Student Movement, also spoke. Mr. |

Yates presided.

DALHOUSIE MOCK PARLIAMENT.
THE GOVERNMENT

 

Premier and President of the Council—
John F. MacNeill, P. E. I.
Minister of Finance—A. M., Matheson
Montreal.
Minister of Customs and Inland Revenue
—C. B. McAskill, Kingston.
Minister of Defence—H. E. Read, Cumberland. —
Minister of Marine and Fisheries—A. F.
MacDonald, Pictou.
Minister of Public Works—C. F. Maclsaac,
Antigonish.
‘Minister of Justice—J. R.
Northumberland, N. B.
Solicitor General—P. T. Hickey, Halifax.
Minister of Railways—L. W. Fraser, North
. York.
Minister of Immigration—D. McGeer, Van| couver.

Nicholson,

Minister of Interior — Alex. Gibson, Cal- , |.

gary.
Minister of Health and D. S. C. R.—J. E.
C. Haslam, North Essex, Ont.
Minister of Agriculture—J. A. Flemming,

Regina. |

Sec. of State—John Longley, Halifax.

Minister of Labor—J. G. Hackett, Winnipeg.

Postmaste
Ottawa.

Minister of External Affairs—J. G. Fogo,
Quebec East. |

Minister without portfolio—V. Kyte, Cape
Breton North, and R. M. McColl,
Yukon. 3

General—Geo. M. Morrison,

   

d i E
a A a =k
= ‘ Pee | = ws “fq ‘ p J :
i ‘one | lee ee Ee c=
‘TR os oe ea oh
= >
7 = Ve ers — ee

 

 

Ronald Fielding, B. A., LL. B., last |

} eo
a 7 — = a es _ :

FALL AND WINTER

SUITS and OVERCOATS |

TO MEASURE

Now is the best time to order
your SUIT or COAT. Fine display
of Imported and Domestic Suitings and Overcoatings — Blacks,
Blues, Fancy Worsted Tweed.

CLAYTON & SONS

JACOB STREET

LY tion |
|Your Educa
is not complete if confined to |
printed books and lectures.
Visiting the interesting and
popular places in every city
helps a lot.

        
     
 
    

We know of no place more popular
or interesting in Halifax than

   

THE

New Green Lantern |

 

   

 

 

YOU CAN SAVE 20% on your NOTE
BOOKS and SUPPLIES at our Store. |

WPF 810 pleend fo announce thet we ase

a position to fill your requirements.
Having stocked a complete line of BOUND
and LOOSE LEAF NOTE BOOKS of all
kinds, also exceptional values in STUDENTS’
supplies, and you can make a considerable
saving by visiting our store.

Frank M. O’Neill & Co. Ltd.

Commercial Stationers
160 GRANVILLE STREET, - HALIFAX

STUDENTS! |

      

 

MILLION DOLLAR STOCK.
DISPOSAL
My entire stock of Suits and Overcoats

to be sold at
$25

 
 

NOTHING —e
: = . ape r
‘: 4

;

‘abinason’s Cilc

| aha coal We Sg
= = Ly ts ' = y
Li r

FF '

 

ies

4
fi

=
a

“Transharborites. ’’

    
  
 
    

i oe =4
= :8 a J i = 4 = *
= alle js z i
— ES . ie ." a =
= gg fi a ; ®
=i) Ame 2 : ] _ : , 7
=~ ° a ; i * 3 > ak =
E 3 he i Loe — Uy . 7
i >? = = : 2
- = = :
] ; E = vi
Ee =" = = = as =
— = ye 3 aero as. =
a4 7 S = i i

. A
: .’ = = s

| Dees > = gee =e fee) i,
’ ee fe

d 4, e = ei a
‘oe et = 7 off

>i = ea == sz x j
ah * et == 7
a] 1
ii 8 Pe. \ ened

=)

l

   

Tigers Win Again.

In a game which started at a fast
pace and increased in speed right to the
end, Dalhousie’s hockey team won over
Dartmouth by a 4-3 score at the Arena
last Tuesday night, January 30, and
drew even with the Wanderers in the
leadership of the City League.

It was a game in which no particular player stood out much above another in the play, but which drew out
the very best show of hockey ability that
two evenly matched teams of extra-good

_ personnel could provide.

Leon Fluck was back at his old place
on the Tiger defence for the first time
this season and played a very good game
indeed, scoring one goal and getting credit for an ‘‘assist’’ in addition to his
effective work in co-operating with Allan Dunlop at breaking up and checking
the Dartmouth attacks, were they combined or individual.

Fluck’s return to the Defence position allowed Mont Haslam to return to
his former place on the forward line,
where his unerring shot and untiring
speed was especially effective. He has
played an outstanding game at Defence
this winter up until this game and by
the brand of hockey that he showed in
this one as a regular at the. right wing
position showed that he possesses not
only exceptional prowess at the Canadian national game, but great versatility as well.

‘‘Bricky’’ Dunn was in fine form, his
playing being more effective than at any
time thus far this year. His back
checking was timély, and his display of
combination with Fluck that resulted in
Dal’s last goal of the evening certainly
was pleasant to watch.

Dalhousie counted first in the score

column, fourteen minutes after the first

face-off. McKenna doing the trick. Two

_ minutes later, Fluck finished off a rush

down the right-hand boards by sending
a vicious shot past Tobin for the second
Dal tally.

Dartmouth opened the scoring in the
second period when after eight minutes
of excitement, Johnny Patterson took
a tebound and scored neatly for the
A minute later
Hickey followed up a spectacular rush
by combining with G. Dunn and McKay
for another score, and amid wild excite
whe score was tied. The ‘‘tellers

Tales’? had not ceased their
or, however, before Bricky
fans to their feet with a

  
    
 

ul «

=F = = Dus ‘: :
_— ea

    
 

    
 

    
 

sy

 

 

 

 

LEON FLUCK.
SEE
warm, and McKenna and Haslam showed what backchecking really is.

The third period saw each team score
once, the first being the direct result of
the Fluck-Dunn combination mentioned
above. The last goal, which did nothing to abate the suspense, was scored
by McKay for Dartmouth from a mixup in front of the Tiger net.

Referees—Crockett and Wilkie.

 

CITY HOCKEY LEAGUE STANDING, SAT. FEB.3.

Dalhousie .......... 3 1 14 10
Wanderers ......... 3 2 17 12
Dartmouth ......... 3 a: 13 9
Crescents .....:.... 0 4 3 16

 

THREE LOYAL DALHOUSIANS.

Dalhousie had some royal rooters in the gallery
in the persons of M. Mader, M. Crandall and M. MeOdrum, who are known as the “terrible three M’s,”

“Chronicle.”

 

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL.

On account of the Gym. being used
for the Junior-Senior Dance, the games
scheduled for last week had to be post
poned.

  
   
  

  
   
 
 

Dalhousie Headquarters for

Sporting Goods |
We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at 40 Sackville Street. We can

supply you with everything for Sport
Life. Also Pocket Knives, Razors,

Shaving Supplies. ‘
We Stock Dalhousie Jerseys
and Stockings.

Morton & Thomson

     
  
  
 
   

   
 
   
   
 
    
   
   

   
     

   
     
   

     
   
  
      
  
  

   

eee |
Seem

Arts And Meds. Stage Thrilling Hockey Battle.

In a vain endeavour to settle the Interfaculty Hockey Championship, Arts
and Medicine clashed Saturday night at
the Arena. The game was keenly fought
and the score of 1-1 is a good indication
of the contest. Heavy, cut-up ice made
it practically impossible to carry the
puck, and consequently the net guardians did not have much to do. Although
not fast, the game was thrilling, and,
decidedly the best Interfaculty exhibition this season.

The teams got off to a flying start
but were not able to hold the pace. MacNally made the first score of the evening
shortly after play commenced. This
made Arts take notice with a vengence.
But there was no teamwork and MacNally or Langwith got the puck every time.
Langwith and his lanky partner showed
up well in this period and indeed during
the whole game. Glenister did equally well at centre. Arts substituted
freely but Medicine had the edge until
the gong sounded for time.

Medicine had the better of the play
throughout the second period. Arts
came within an ace of scoring when
McInnes banged the puck at Corbett, but
it struck the bar and bounded back.
For the next few minutes the puck was
dangerously near the Arts nets until
Clouston got away and invaded Med
territory.

In the third period Arts came back
strong and McInnes scored after a long
rush. The game for the rest of the time
was speedy and rough. Creighton for
Arts, playing the best game on the ice.

Except for the last eight minutes of
play the Meds were the aggressors,

MeNally, Langwith and Glenister for
the ‘‘Crossbone’’ Sextette and Creighton, MacInnes, and Clouston for the
‘‘Studley Intellectuals’? took the honors of the game,

The play-off for the championship
will be held next Saturday night at the
Arena. |

Line-up: Arts—Goal, Henderson ;
Defence, Clouston, V. C. MacDonald;

Forwards, Creighton. MaclInnes, Tan
MacDonald, Subs. Frame, MacCuish,

Cummings, Woodill, Bayer.
Medicine :—G@oal, Corbett;

       

Glenister, Smith; Subs. Ke
Millan, Kenry.

 

Defence,
MacNally, Langwith; Forwards, Doull, ae
ating, Mac- |!

———————— ss __

“
—

— el

ie

   
    
   
   
   
  
  
    
    

   
 
 

 
 
  
 

  
      
   
    
  
    
   
  
 

  
   
   
 

Ws vit

 
   
 
   
 
    
       
    

  
  
  
    
  
    
   
    
  
   

 

  
 
   
     
    
  
 

=” | Melee
 

 
  
 
 

 

RAZZBERRIES
By I. Pickem

Freshman—yYou’re a wonderful dancer.

Co-ed—Sorry I can’t return the compliment.

Freshman—O, you could if you were as big a
liar as I am.

 

Prof, Wilson (in History I1)—‘Dante was very
realistic in his descriptions, He deseribed Hell, Purgatory and Paradise just as you and 1 would describe Barrington street,”

 

Carl Bethune, directing the Yokohama Maid (to
frivolous member of cast)—‘Miss , won’t you
please take me seriously and settle down.”

Miss “Oh, Mr, Bethune, this is so sudden.”
Curtain,

 

 

 

’23—“We have a cuckoo clock in our room.”
’26—“Ours doesn’t work very well either.”

 

A stout woman bought two seats for “The Yokohama Maid,” so as to be more comfortable.

Attendant—“‘Pardon me, madam, but who is going to use your other seat.”

S. W. (sharply) —‘“I am going to occupy both of
them.”

Attendant—“Just as you like, only they happen
to be on opposite sides of the aisle.”

 

“And, Daddy, let me have five dollars for a speeding finé, please.”

“What, daughter, fined again ?”

“No, Daddy, but I’m going out tonight.”

 

“T have exhorted! I have entreated! I have
persuaded !” shouted the Reverend Doctor Longlung, “What shall I say now ?” “The benediction,”
came in sepulchral tones from the student’s corner.

 

First Co-ed—“‘How did she get her gown for the
Junior-Senior dance ?”
Second Ditto—“By letter.”

 

Interest.—Grad.—“This university certainly takes
an interest in a fellow, doesn’t it ?”

Tad—“How’s that ?”

Grad.—‘“Well, I read in the graduate magazine
that they will be very glad to hear of the death
of any of their alumni.”

 

Zoological.—Chimp (coming from the dressingroom)—“You said you had shown me everything of
interest about the University, you deceitful old
thing.”

Panzee (all worried) —“But I did, Duckie.”

Chimp—“You didn’t show me the 200.”

Panzee—“There isn’t any 200, little girl” ,

_ Chimp—“You mean old thing, I know there is.
I heard Mary just say she saw a dancing Wham that
was the Cat’s Klookus and Nell said, ‘That’s nothing;
I saw a bird with oe ey eo oe
centipede’. "——_Virgina Reel.

_. Davy Colquhoun (attiving tate for Claes) —
_ “Golly, Eee tee See eee ee

yi 4
vi e «) :
a ”
8, # . an =
a aks = .

Si, be
eis

   

oe | ew ey z a
é - a | 7 ras * =

a / i - ;

‘4 Es 2 7.

 

ah r t 4 ‘
bs Wistar st au 4 sie +:
7 ee Jal. . t, ew via

. a
b i Tis a ou

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dal Mounts Championship
Ladder.

Fighting savagely from start to finish, the Dal City League Quintette
swamped the Champion St. George’s
team in the Y. M. C, A. gymnasium on

Saturday last—score 50-23. - The Tiger
team furnished the best brand of ball
seen this season and their clever feinting and passing completely bewildered
the Saints. Genuine team work featured the play and was largely responsible for the victory. Time and again
guards and forwards played the ball
to beneath the very basket for ua neat
score. Muir, Mader, Wilson and Miller, the Dal forwards, were in top
form—right in place, every time and on
time. The guards, MacOdrum and Coster, are deserving of even greater
praise—a vertable stonewall of defence, they left but little to desire. It
is probably true that 75% of St
George’s baskets were obtained by long
shots from outside Dalhousie territory
—for within it the defence was invincible. No better or more effective checking has been displayed in this season’s
series than that of Dalhousie’s defence
on Saturday night.

The scoring honors of the game go
to **Clint’’ Muir who tallied the remarkable count of 28 points. Incidentally
Muir placed himself in the lead of all
high-scorers in the City League as his
total, now 56, overtops ‘‘Pete” Frew’s
44.

St. George’s: Baker, Ferguson,

_James, Murphy, Mahon, Saunders.

Dalhousie: Muir, Wilson, Grant,
Coster, MacOdrum, Mader, Miller.

Referee: Fred Barrowman.

 

’

“FINALS TONIGHT’’.
(Continued from page 1.)

churches then. Arthur will be just as
brilliant and convineing in his analysis
of an intricate legal problem tonight.

‘‘Don’’ MacInnes will conelude the

debate for the affirmative. Enough to
say that if he debates as well as he plays
‘‘Mull’’ on the football team his place i is
assured,

R. F. Ross, a chap who takes to legal

research so naturally as to his ‘‘Math.’’
will conclude the debate for the nega
tive. ‘*Bob’’ shows a thoroughness and
earnestness in the preparation of ~
subject that any lawyer might well en
It he argues tonight as well ae he |
in the preliminar trials Acadia
wae “t

 

 
 
 
 
  

.
‘
:

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
128 YOUNG STREET

HATS ——— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

HENRY S. COLWELL
GARNET J. COLWELL
RAY J. COLWELL

CYRIL H. COLWELL

 

UNGAR’S

How often a _ perfectly good
garment is discarded because

it is soiled and stained. That.

is because its owner dces not

realize our wonderful process

of French Dry-Cleaning, which

restores old clothes, and makes

them: look like new.

Why not try us?

Phone Sack. 428

Laundering, Cleaning, Dyeing

 

STUDENTS!

- DON’T THROW
YOUR OLD SHOES AWAY

Remember our GOODYEAR WELT SYStem that made this store so ular in
Halifax. If you haven’t done so before, try
us now. It will be worth your while.

- We will also renew your old hat so that

you will thank us for saving you the price
of a new one,

THE SHOE HOSPITAL

428 Barrington Street
SKATES SHARPENED HERE

 

 

FOOTWEAR

QUALITY, SERVICE, ECONOMY

Footwear for all times and sea
pons at the new LOW PRICES.

 

 

This is the Nearest Shoe Store !
to Dalhousie.

rs i ae vax is

lm
=i

E> gg aS PS Ns
A Pte eueee
r*.

aaa

~ : ea
Se

 
      
    
   
     
    
   
  

       
     
    
     
  
  
 
