Sa
. +. “ - —— > a > a f ~ + .—
- re rm
i al *< od
1 7 : igs ~
awe st as .

, ausing)
_ FOUNDED, tel

; aval «nal —

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

a

Soo—e—e—mE=E—oa———eeaeeaeaanananane=aesS=a=aeEaeSaG5_QQqaooaoaaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeewwoems” . “i
VOL. LV. Peet HALIFAX, N. S.,, NOVEMBE.® 14, 1923. No. 19.
eee leeees=qQQmaelel_—50503030gQ5_05Q05lj]jRe—[—SSeeeeeeeeeeSeSwwo—aow—wouws : 4
| enter the Law School. Mrs. Gregg, who is ‘
The Balhousir Gazette a Bachelor of Arts from Acadia, Claas of x
| | FOUNDED 1869 1916, is taking graduate work at Dalhousie. +
ssuco Weimy - + = + onewouan rer vee The Gazette joins in extending to them both cm
EDITOR . - 7 - H E. READ, B.A. a hearty welcome.
ASSOCIATE EDITORS i

D. R. Webster, B.A. Miss Juanita O'Connor, B. Conm {
Miss Ciara Murray Vincent ¥. Cutfard Jt is indeed fitting that Armistice day has 9
: FACULTY EDITORS become not alone an annual. celebration of i
eo hs ‘caer victory but in very truth a ‘‘Remembrance {
W. G. Dawson © ,  W.G, Sexton Day.’’ Thanksgiving this year was not merely 3

Ni STs | _ an. oeeasion for rendering thanks for material
SPORTS EDITOR =8- + PT Hickey. bosgings, Far above all else in the minds

«
"ee
Tet
mat

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
     
   
   
     
 
     
      
     
   
     
   

 

  

MM oe i 5
PERBONALS ERrToR Teh Bi . - Fos 8d hearts of the Canadian people was their | §
ae Be gratitude for the courage and vicarious. ' “a

via cine IR sake teciitlibies savrifice of Canada’s soldiers in the great war © | %
STAFF ARTIST. ‘ ‘ ; D.E. Green -—~for all those men and women who through } ‘2
OVERSEAS CORRESPONDENT - J. A. Dunlop, B.A. four years of trial and strife exemplified the | i
BUSINESS MANAGER + ..- J, GORDON FOSO human race at its highest effort. | Af
,, Raaancnager 9T,, Te. 2096 4 The years since November 1918 have been | | ;
| te ite filled with distress and misunderstandings — oT eT "

between the nations throughout the world. Lieut, M.F. Gregg, V.C., M.C, and Bar, R.C.Regt.

To those who fought, who saw their comrades —— :

die, who gave their loved ones, that war might ; Victoria. Cross, London Gazette dated the 6tlr:
be no more on this earth; has come sad and J*nuary, 1919. ae
For ‘most conspicuous bravery ‘and initiative dur--> =)
Eaton at ha potas ne since the time ing operations near Cambrai Sieh Sept, whee the: aan

| : been as advance of the Brigade was held up by fire from ats
. ih caper ‘all that flanks and by thick uncut wire, he crawled’ a
Bp mrs 3 | | eld it is orward alone and explored the wire until he found is

é | ve rear have h it no wonder 4 small gap, through which he subsequently led his i

that men are asking, ‘‘Was the great sacrifice men, and orced an entry into the enemy trench. ‘

pee Ne

sb The enemy counter-attacked in force, and, through
all in vain? ‘Jack of bombs, the situation beeame § critical..

To usin Censde, as. sleeuheeg the answer Although wounded, Lt. Gregry returned alone under”
terrific fire and collected a further supply. Then re-
rests with ourselves. Canada 's splendid fight- - Joining the party, which by this time was much

glory. Her . reduced in numbers, and, in spite of a second. ae

hn wound he reorganized ‘his d led t
1 France and Belgium hae aeaeiue corner men an hem with:

etermination against the e ‘ae
of her. nationhood ; trenches, which he finally sheared. He penta \ ae
midst of blood and mm or B Lage BS of Pe aol and took 260
“prisoners, in addition to 12 machine Buns captured.
sae destiny in this trench. Remaining with op oaeat ae
. t that is hers.’’ These | ‘spite of wounds, he again on the 80th Sept. led
eto A the*dend: adh trom -his men in attack until severely wounded. The~ tune th ST a ee I i a valor of this officer saved many cag-ualties enabled the advance to: continue. ea

~%.
- Rw

 

     
 
 

eS wn Pere

LF " , } , , ; a F
> 5 =
. .
i 1 . =
a re th - git _—
a * ts 4 meee if a
i" ' % ;
ve - |

   

  
  
    
     

  

 
   

oe Heep not for t ni they 0 ate ot eee but ee a
nail or work 3 was fone, ae 80 a why won ao Keer it) ee

tot
are Te | mg it
“ aa Pr

(hy aye ;


“" ad

A Freshette’s Impressions of a Dance.

 

Arrival at the Gym of me all endimanchee

—'‘Sunday togs,’’ stunning frock and ensemble, you know.

Chorus of female voices: ‘‘I must powder
my nose. Anyone lend me a safety-pin, I’ve
‘broken a— (Giggles from the gallery), Have
‘you any powder?”’

Sophisticated Sophie sings soprano solo
sotto voce: ‘‘Now remember, Erin, you’re
not to dance with Mr. X. Y. Z., even if you
do come from the same place.’’

Chorus of voices: ‘‘I must powder my

nose! Hope Mr. W. gives me a dance: Isn’t

Mr. J. a dandy trotter? Have you any
powder?’’ Ad tb.
Sophie Duenna: ‘‘Now remember, kid, if

Mr. Z. asks you to dance you’re to refuse.’’

‘Me sulkily: ‘‘All right, you needn’t reiter‘ate.”’
In the Gym: Man’s voice, tenor solo:

+*May I have this dance?’’ He had it, and

“all his own way too, ’cos he simply couldn’t

‘keep time. He also took things so strenuous‘ly that when the music stopped his tie was all
up the back of his neck. Sisterly, I reached

® up to put it right for him, and later on my

Sophie said I must be without shame em‘bracing Mr. S. in front of everybody. T
meekly said: ‘‘Honi soit qui mal y pence,’’
and she told me not to be cheeky.

Man’s voice, bass solo: ‘*‘May I have the
pleasure?’’ Truly it was all his, for he trod
on my’ toes, knocked against my knees till
they must have shown the Dalhousie colors,
and held me against his chest in a death- like
grip so that I nearly hollered for help. N.B.—
All the powder on my nose was left on his
wont but it really wasn’t my fault. Later on
I had 4 dance with Mr. W. and he wangled
my left arm up and down as if it had been the
old pump-handle at Grand Pre.

l’m sure with so many profesors now at
Dalhousie they might run a class in dancing
for men only; then they might concentrate
on their hands and feet instead of on their
partner,—breathing te powder off my nose,
ruining my new slippers, and squeezing me
into concentrated essence of freshette. They

could also give a few hints on the art of pol
jte conversation: all I heard was ‘‘Phew!
_ sn’t it hot!’’ varied by ‘‘musie’s rather jolly!’’ Such obvious facts grow stale by repetition.

    

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

 

119 YOUNG ST. ye

 

r Pg ee ae es

Shiny Noses, Mr. Gallagher?
Dalhousie Freshettes, Mr. Shean.

 

O Mister Gal’ J Mister Gallagher, _
Have you he w drug store trade has
fallen of:

The Freshette com Shirreff Hall

Don’t go near them now at all

Unless they have the mumps or whooping
cough.

O Mister Shean, O Mister Shean,

D’yon know why the girls don’t go there
any more

Yoa see they can’t use powder now

Till the Sophmores show them how.

Could they use it with discretion, Mr.
Gallagher ?

Yes! they have none Mister Shean.

—P, & B.

 

 

At one period of time Mr. L. came and
asked me to dance. I hated to refuse cos I
didn’t know many men and my duenna was
so busy dancing she didn’t find me any partners, and I knew I was about due to become
a wallflower. But my sophisticated Sophie
was hovering near so I sorrowfully had to
suy ‘‘Yes, I have no dances to-night,’’ which
of course was a lie, but you never know what
these Sophies will do to you and when it’s
‘‘a lie or a life’’ what is there left todo. He
just grinned and said, ‘‘ma foi, this is quite
an adventure,’’ which seemed to annoy my
Sophie for she scowled at me profusely.

I enjoyed the supper thoroughly and also
managed to go home with only a male chaperon, so that on the whole the dance was
somewhat of a success.

Before retiring to rest I humbly asked my
Sophie to elucidate her prohibition of Mr. Z.
‘‘He is a bold, bad, wicked man,’’ she said,
‘‘hut you are too young to know his history.’’

I went off full of glee ‘cos I love a mystery.

adore Sherlock Holmes. I mean to set to

ork to discover what Mr. Z. has done.
Meantime I’ll mention him in my prayers.
As the poet says: ‘‘More erimes are solved
by prayers, Horatio, then this world hears
0 f. ”

; —_Fresnerre Erw.
(No siree, not the same genus
as ‘‘fresh ar ”
te 2 “Scotts Ltd. |
30 SPRING GARDEN reer

nee ee PET sy ee A cat
bie Se a ie at M
by m Ney any 4

THE DALHOUSIE an oxherrt Ee

tials Win Bepsiied Verdict.

 

The annual Freshie-Soph debate was held
in the Munro room on Tuesday, Nov. 6. The

_ Subject was ‘‘Resolved that a student should ‘spend more time on college activities than on

study,’’ the Sophomores upholding the
Affirmative.

Donald MeInnes, the president of the Arts
and Science Students’ Society, was in the
chair. |

The speeches of the debate were well prepared and delivered, most of the speakers
secming thoroughly at home on the platform.
It was regrettable that the first two speakers
were interruptted by late. comers, who strolled in nonchalantly fifteen minutes after the
debate was scheduled to begin.

Herbert Davidson opened the debate for the
Affirmative with a fluent, witty, forceful
address. He explained that students came to
college to prepare themselves for after life;
and pointed out that knowledge of one’s
fellow men, the power to lead, and the ability
tv cooperate were the important factors in
life, and that these may be developed more
by college activities than by study. Mr.
Davidson used no notes, and his argument

was interesting and emphatic.

Laurie _MeElmon, first Freshman speaker
discussed the bad effects of college activities

on the work and health of the student.

Miss Roberts, who continued the debate for
the affirmative, seemed rather nervous but her
speech was well prepared. She eliminatéd
trashy amusements, explaining that they were
not college activities, and pointed out that
nafrowness in college interests lead one to
become narrow in after life.

The fourth speaker, Miss Marshall, pre
- sented very able arguments in a most convine
ing and, ‘pleasant ‘manner. She explained
that one may take part in activities without
going to college, and stressed the fact that the
classmates and the professors are the ones
who judge a student.
Davidson’s rebuttal was aready retort.
He answered all the arguments of his
opponents, and emphasized his own points.
Mr. M. C. Maedonald gave a very helpful
critique. In his words, herd ladies debated,
the gentlemen entertained.’’ Mr. Macdonald
ee there was too an humour in

  

   

WIN NOBEL PRIZE

Dr. Foster Murray, Medicine ’23, has left
for Baltimore to take a Public Health course.

The sight of Dr. Stanley Peppard (Med.
23) at the Freshie-Soph dance brought back
memories of days gone by.

It is of interest to medical students to note
that the Nobel Prize in Medicine has been
granted to two Canadian doctors. The men
se honored are Dr. Banting, the discoverer of
insulin and Dr. MacLeod, professor of Physiology at Toronto University.

The Nobel Prize was instituted by the will
of Alfred Bernard Nobel a distinguished
Swedish chemist. Among his discoverics are
dynamite, explosive gelatine and ballistite.

The awards, which are in the form of ‘ive
prizes, are to be given to the persons who
have done the most to benefit mankind by
discoveries in Chemistry, Medicine, Physics,
to the author of the most distinguished work
of idealist tendency and the person who does
most to promote fraternity among nations.

Drs. McLeod and Banting are the second
Britishers to receive this Medical award.

—W. 8S, G.

Miss McKean New Member of Council

Thurs., Nov. 1, Class 24 entertained once
again at one of her jolly little class meetings.
Attendance was large, both sides of the
house being well represented. The business
of selecting a new member for the Students’
Council to take the place of Miss Rose Leslie
was quickly dispatched—Miss Amy McKean
was elected by acclamation. A committee
was appointed to attend to the matter of
Class 24 Christmas cards, and another to look
after athletics. It is intended to enter teams
for basket-ball, volley-ball and badminton, if
possible.

Up to this point no subject for dispute had
been brought-up, but waning interest was revived by the mention of a class party. Numerous opinions were expressed and feeling
became tense, although the girls for the most
part remained stolidly silent and refused to
vote one way or another. Chiefly due to the
increasing claims of hunger, it was decided to

 

 

have a class party to ‘‘Dumbells,’’ and fur
a eerennne Se: wreited: by 0 manien:
adjourn. soa

_ Later: Chay 7 thre pry oi

| The College Gil

_ Likes A Hot
cs style, quality, modesty
oe

 

hee oe

Fe hl to wae the diferent elas of teckisiqoe

  
  

THE BIOLOGY RAG.

Sudie Salome was a sex chromosome,
Thru’ her-first mitosis she started to roam,
Leaving her home; causing this ‘‘ Pome.’’
Anaphases, metaphases, telephases,
All the changes known
Sadie set the pace, heeding not her parents’
groan.
Hear them moan.
Oh the Cytology, Miecro-biology, cell-Physiology Rag.

Sadie met at.last a man upon her ruin bent,

Who gave her osmie acid to hasten her
descent ;

Aleohol, Xylol and all kinds of goo.

Filled her with frenzy in each tiny mu.

And she lept into xylol paraffinum

Ain’t it fine: Ain’t it fine

Oh the Cytology, Micro-biology, eell-Physi
ology Rag.

‘Sadie soon went sliding down a keen microtome
Section after scction of that sex chromosome
Oh you chrome, chromosome on that sliding
microtome.
Stained in haemotoxylon;
slide. |
Sadie cannot hide
Any of her chromatin,—what a sin,—
See them grin.
Oh the Cytology, Micro-biology, cell-Physiology Rag.

mounted ona

—J. A. S.

 

As a result of the activities of the Society’s
stirring Social Committee, a ‘‘ Dental Night’’
will be staged in the Munro Room, Forrest
Building, on Nov. 28 rd.

Dr. Thompson has kindly consented to give
a short talk on Preventative Dentistry which
will be of interest to every student at Dalhousie, Following this, various musical
numbers will be presented; also a burlesque
tableau in which Ralph: Dalgleish, one of the
_ best comedians the Glee Club has produced
fGen, Wee Sk AAAS ete ey "Vinee

ey the short entertainment the Infirmary, ‘X’’ Ray room, Dental Museum and
the various laboratories will be thrown open
for a general inspection and the visitors will

_ work turned out by the present Dents. Last,
least, refreshments will be served.

_ Remember the date Nov. 230d, and give the
 Denta cama cp cat ad

coalim Ray.

  

THE LAWYER'S BRIEF.

 

©. Wray Townshend Law ’23, has entered’
into partnership with B. W. Roscoe, LL.B.,
K.C., D.S.0., of Kentville, N. 8.

James E. Porter, M.A. (U.N.B.), LL.B.
(Dal 1920), is now practicing law in Regina,
having entered into partnership with W. R..
Kinsman, LL.B. (Dal 1915). Mr. Kinsman
was formerly a partner of Mr. Justice Bige—
low in the firm of Bigelow and Kinsman.

The President of the Law Society, A. M..
Matheson, has been pleased to appoint Messrs..
R. W. Kennedy of the Third Year, W. A. D..
Gunn of the Second Year, and H. P. Wick-wire of the First Year, as a committee to»
shape the destinies of the Dalhousie Mock:
Parliament for the present year.

—I. L. B.

A LIVELY SHOW |

 

Members of the Glee Club enjoyed their
monthly entertainment and dance Monday’
night, Nov. 5th,

The business meeting did not occupy much:
time, but soon made way for the livelier part.
of the program which was opened by a musi-eal trio with flute, saxaphone and piano.

It was announced that Ralph Dalgleish had
something ‘‘to get off his chest,’’ and then
the well known comedian entered. While:
he proceeded to initiate his audience (that is,.
those who were not already initiated) into the:
secrets of ‘‘make-up,’’ he confided to them.
things that had been heard about various col-lege students. His monologue reached its:
climax of humor in a parody on the popular’
song ‘‘I Love Me.’’ Ralph still can ‘‘deliver”
the goods.’’

Elsie Fraser gave a delightful. reading’
**Pyramus and Thisbe’’—not the literal.
translation of the old Roman legend, but a
much more amusing and modern version.

The appearance of Charlie Baxter in the
role of Harry Lauder was gréeted with much.
applause. He sang a pathetic song on how’
nice it is ‘to lie between the sheets on Sunday’
morning and hear the bacon sizzling down-:
stairs—or words to that effect. He explained.

_in another song why he had taken to wearing”

the kilts and the reason he gave would no
doubt appear very logical to some. The:

others would agree that it was amusing any-way.

After this ,there remained an hour for’ —

dancing which was enjoyed by everybody’
present. May the next Glee Club entertain-
ment be as good as the performance of last)

Monday night!

Or ae
ee oy

 

    
    
   
  
    
   
  
    
   
    
   

oa. wv wii

             
 
   
     
   

  
 

 

“SO TiniS IS HADES!”

 

The Present.
The Manicurists’

‘TIME:
SCENE: Ball.

[King Tutankhamen is tangoing with a

ALI BEN HASSAN.

omens

Ali Ben Sheen of the desert sands

Long wooed in vain the daughter of his chief.

Each day brought hera present from his
hands

 

Poetry has never been defined--The original
standards of the Elizabethan period based on

 

 

Pine Hill Post

Following is the Staff of the Pine Hill
Pepper Box: Editor—R. F. Ross; Faculty
Editors —Arts, W. H. Swan, Dent. Gordon

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

New Brunswick Society.
The first meeting of the N. B. Society for
1923-24 was held in the Munroe Room on

Monday night, Nov. 5, with Pres. W. H. Swan
in the chair.

 

 

 

Shirreff Hall

On Sunday, Nov. 4, Miss Nutt was Miss
Lowe’s guest at dinner, and afterwards gave
an interesting talk to a number of girls.

It may be interesting to-note that a certain

ee ne eat Sears iad To show his power and wealth beyond belief. ~ iambic jueasurements have been shattered. Dawson, Eng. W. Moran, Law, W. Mac- anon .) the monthly meeting of Glee dance, that of the “Little Summer Hours.”
@Gy Sing.. Unelook at fis Aalr would ma For a long time it was held that poetry was Odrum, Meds. Ches, Oake, Phar. E. Mace- mb, atendance at the eng, Wane 4, becoming popular in the third floor :

ee throw away his vaseline and turn — yxy¢ 9)! in vain; the maiden’s heart was cold essentially based on the attainment of a Donald, Theology, Cecil Blanchard, Staff large. Nevertheless the gathering was The girls are all glad that Miss Laws has
‘monk |}, As Persian plains beneath the midnight sky. certain metre of rhythm. The abstract Artist, H. Davidson. representative. become so much one of them that she

King Tut: ‘‘It’s a great life,’’

S. Y. L: ‘‘If you don’t weaken! Say,
King, go a little slow and easy on this tango.
Why were you late, anyhow?”’

King Tut: ‘‘Listening in on the Radio
about my tomb. They’ve found it at last,
you know.’’

Then Hassan knew the price more dear than
gold—
What must be given he had tried to buy.

The morrow found him many leagues away,
Seeking the solace of the wild alarms
Of petty tribal .warfare—yesterday

remote subjects of the same period have also
gune. In their place has come the new poetry
of today, written in the language of today,
breathing the spirit of today.

The first break from the old order was by
several of our now favorite poets, Burns,
Byron and others—Their poetry had a ¢on
P. H. would like very much to know who
{rusted Gordon Frame with the earrring he
carries around. Ordinarily, up to date
“*Birds of Paradise’’ wear such decorations.

Bill Wickwire made his debut as a cheer
leader at the Edgehill, H.L.C. ground hockey
game. That in itself is quite proper, but

Robert (‘‘Bob’’) Sectt a 1dressed the meeting and called for cooperation and enthusiasm
on the part of N. B. students in attaining the
ambitions of the society.

It war decided that a hearty invitation to

join the society will be extended to the New
Brunswick students of Kings College.
A request was made for all students of the

patronizes tthe same confectioner. In other
words, she can enjoy her ice cream from the
corner store with the best of them.

There a few questions that. should be
answered :

Who took the crackers from table 7?
Where is the elusive gramophone?

S. Y. T.: ‘Should have put an ‘ad’ in Torgotten—midst the ringing clash of arms. Ct anocs about it, an expression of the when it means a monopoly of the telephone % Who were the two gentlemen who wandered
ithe Gazette long ago!’’ oe ee modern passion of life—Then came many for an entire evening it becomes another Sviety to submit a yell tothe Secretary. fully through St aj be
King Tut: ‘“They have decided that the 4 a ae deri fiasi Se dail ian tah devi ate The noisiest one will be most suitable and will 8° gtacefully through St. Paul’s cemetery on
iA deohunr cll Tees Wen wh unddant feel al year had passed, wandering mins more or Jess daring spirits with many ae a Sd piel billet oy: Se eenied. a rainy Sunday morning? and what was their
came ations until at last Whitman gave a completly pp | All New: Brunswick students are earnestly mission ?

‘torture !’’

S. Y. T.: ‘‘Not so far wrong at that, until you had the shock absorbers installed !’’

King Tut (grumpily): ‘‘They’re much
‘more interested in me now than when I was
‘alive !’’

S. Y. T.: ‘‘Because then you might have
died, silly, and been a dead loss. Say, Tut,
will you marry me? I think I could support

And fell a vietim to the maiden’s grace.
No wealth had he, nor power, nor fame,
But wondrous music and a_kindly face.

With tender passion he beseiged her heart,

And sang the songs of love she thrilled to
hear.

The maiden, trembling lest he should depart,

Iteturned his ardour, torn ‘tween love and

new idea of poetry. This trend of work does
not seem to be a radical departure—aAll the
great_classiecs have been written in the language and ideas of their time.

The new poetry is simple and since: —
There is an individuality about it. Every
writer seems to be taking a form and mold
of his own for his ideas. Poetry to these
new poets is to be a creation not of form and

“*Jigger’’ Grant and Jarvis MaeCurdy will
open a Butter and Jam eafetaria shortly.

At last. Harold Baird has fallen. The boys
pinned their faith on Harold but he’s fallen
worse than ‘‘Jo’’ Pringle or ‘‘Red’’ MeLean.
And she hails from ‘‘Spud’’ Island, and
likes the Strand.

But there is good news to offset the bad.
Doug. MacDonald’s all here.. Of course part
of him was here all along, but the saxophone

requested to attend the next meeting. It is
up to each one to help make this Society a
real success.

—E. A. M.

Kingsman Rhodes Scholar

WINDSOR, N. S., Nov. #0—Gerald White, son
of Bishop White, of St. John’s Nfid., has been
awarded the Rhodes Schorlarship for Newfound
 

Did they find Bl-n-h C-ll-ns the other
night? and why was she ‘‘out’’ twice?

Who is the gentleman who was looking for
a ‘‘elear space’’? and did he find it or was
it only in his mind?

Who is the girl who has joined the frat?

To whom did the Sophette refer when she
so emphatically stated ‘‘Sincere! No! The
man is a ‘‘heretic’’—but did she mean that?

Who was the gentleman who picked up a

you.” fear. metre but of spirit
King Tut (doubtfully): ‘‘I’ve gained a Oe tle aa — arrived only last week land. He is a graduate of King’s College,
saa” 4 , bea | ee tafe : duati ith high standing last May. Si black middy tie on the campus last week?
lot, you know. Still, if you could keep me in Whatever poetry is truth, uty and Some people are born with a silver spoon in hae Tear a hoe ved is diaens oF the "Three Mile Please po wel to Shirreff wali an it was

cigarettes, in vaseline, and in—’’
S. Y. T.: ‘‘In-doors, all right—well—’’
-&ntor Mrs. Tut, bearing several large -rolling pins, one of which she throws with deadly accuracy at her lord. Exit the Sweet

. Young Thing, wailing. King Tut and Mrs.

‘Tut after a spirited bit of repartee, become
revonciled, and Mrs, Tut triumphantly throws
away the remaining rolling pin. They fluetuate to the footlights, and begin an eccentric

shoulder, in most approved fashion, as easily
as if she had been a sphagetti. He sommersaults off, followed by the chorus, which
sings—

‘‘Sing a song of Vaseline,

Gardens full of rye—

 

The minstrel laughs and easts of his disguise.
Ali Ben Hassan, tall, before her stands—
In his strong arms she rests, a willing prize—
Ali Ben Hassan of the desert sands.
—Lyricen.

 

Enjoying Thanksgiving Cheaply.

 

Commone, Commtwo, Commthree and Medone,

after considering the high cost of railway fares and

Each having ‘dependents’ in Pictou Co, towns, the
material for celebrating ‘with was left to their
selection. Saturday was spent in waiting for
mails, missing meals to a appetites, and paying
for collect express

The eieune not rb prone to work, left poor
arene to prepare the repast, while they spent the

vening at an opera. On returning they found the

  
  
  

music, expression of noble thoughts, and
spiritual emotions, the real poetry has something intrinsic, that marks it so. |

Amy Laney has described poetry thus:
‘*The magic light that springs Sas
From the deep soul of things

When called by their true names

Their essence is sit free;

The word illuminate

Showing the soul’s estate

 

Dickens’ Preference for “Copperfield”

The late Kate Douglas Wiggin, in her book.

of reminiscences, ‘‘My Garden of Memory,’’
relates a conversation she had with Charles

  
 
 

.more fortunate.

    
  

their mouths. Cliff Grant has been even
He is the confidant of Miss
Lowe at Shirreff Hall. Swan who professed
his willingness to ‘‘Try anything onee’’ and
Don Sinclair who has vainly tried to pass
those sacred gates have an idea what that
privilege means.

Tabellarius takes a paternal interest in the
“‘troops’’ and accordingly accompanied the
“‘earavan’’ when it went forth to the Glee

able morals of the residence he must offer a
few suggestions. For instance Gordon
Dawson should know that cheek-to-cheek is
not ‘chie’ this season; Art Ross that there are
other places to terpsichoreate tham in far dim
corners and Maurice Armstrong that there

Plain Church, and was appointed assigtant master
in English and History for this year at King’s
College School, Windsor. While at college, Mr.
White was very popular and enthusiastic in sport
and all college activities, and was captain of the
football and hockey teams. This is the third
student from King’s to receive the scholarship.
White’s fellow students are delighted with the
appointment for the recipient of this signal honor
is deservedly popular.

NOTICE

Student’s Service, Sunday Nov. 18,

Evening,

MEMORIAL UNVEILED.

The morning service at St. Matthew’s Church on
Sunday Nov. 4, was the occasion of the unveiling
of a memorial tablet to Lieut. George Henderson
ee only son of Mr.“ and Mrs. George S.

Ca‘npbell, who was killed at the front during the

 

 

borrowed and the owner feels the loss as
keenly as the loser.
Who are they, who, despite their sterling

‘qualities, believe in formal dress for class as

well as shopping? and was it not really evening dress?

Tumblers mean sete to one member of
our household. In fact she is rather hard on
the crocker—y.

S. H. is wondering if the boys who visited

Ai SR, 2 . wisd f missing classes in Jewology and Biology, | ‘ i :
ee - Seeetan 4 neha ie rae yt a pnca ‘a the hy duting the Thank. Baring the hearts of men. Club Monday night. In a spirit of friendli- woes. ‘tie of S. rs A. Soa Choir in charge -‘Shirreff Hall one Friday night really enjoyving week end. How to celebrate was a problem Poetry. ness and a desire to preserve the unimpeach- at ce boards for . ed themselves. The Shirreff’s daughters wish

that the gentlemen who come only on Sunday
evenings, would drop in some wetk-day, when
their music could be more enjoyed. All hope
that when Cliff calls again, he won’t be so
shy about it, and will favour everybody.

The best feed of the season was given by

ie Whuv ever said that Hades was | tables set, with Somepoorfish’s sheet for a cover, ares ” |
Re mth busltas.. sa Wal Rete ore girls than one to dance with. But Th riat ‘servic ially imprese Dry, dry, dry?” and preparations complete come Irish Cobblers, Dickens, in which Dickens said his favorite es Allan Hill exid at the close ‘‘I didn’t hear © tive, sermon and song. contributing to render the 88 Margaret Melieod om the oceltion OF Nig
er | er) aa hi a” ey ee we en cena’ Copperfiad.”” Biv ‘i a orchestra made but by jingo the 5 Matthew’s. in Hernan” anne mfnely aaa ahs she’d have more than one birth
re : flatter any ho writing was ‘‘ dance. was a Ly ik ;
a LITERARY REVIEW salt wes some mans, tt for skind bet G04 Wiggin said this was “her favorite Dickens } Already Nolen sas hee oakipallsl to stir cutee Mecinaa’ any eveey year.
Le E The table decorations were elaborate, blue book. The Dickens bio however, | exercise the full of his Doaconate. Deakins comfort, faith, marked the sermon, in Please note,—the following addition to
fre —— white being the color scheme, with Dal A have quo 4 Dickens tall that “Great powers @ which Dr. Mackinnon carried his hearers back over Dalhousie’s Song Book:
“This Freedom’’—Ritchie MeCoy’s in represented by their banners. n have quoted. Dickens as saying that “Great Fearing the morals of his distriet would be the years of the war, and dealt with the soul’s oe
4s sat astride one of the chickens in Expectations’’ was his favorite, == irretrievably impaired, he suddenly swooped ~ struggle in those days. General Thacker per- My girl’s from Shirreff Hall
os a games. it with a scapel, but nev iu WOUND Pee ns po Oe , the Robb had ‘ as the dnvelling of the memorial tablet to. She is a nifty doll.
_. “Heroes'and Hero Worship’’—Dalhousie passed th : eae | on the bureau where surreptiously yieut. Campbell. ‘Then, as a triumphant conclus- Sh to ball

~ Football Team. , m0 er tall hl ‘Let, them be jon, Mr, Harrion sang “There is no Death vies an ea ,

“Aliee In Wonderland”—Co-ed_in Phil. Psat ha » and Robert And in my future lite she’s going to be my

 

  

orophy 3.
Fe and Present”*—Last year and thin
“Decisive Battles’’—The last ae

game. .
oe Vanity Fair’ ’—Delta Gamma.

 
     
   

  

 
 

 
   
 

ear moth
 

havi oi 2 many y photos ot movie celebrities

in his room.
dat by a of variety me what Pie Hil

  

0 a mi ech “AT aie me, e

| wife. —

How in — did you find that out
She told me so.

1 tok ws sme tne, Pina Hi, bul we're

     
  

    

iy

     

” y ey a , a
fi ae F 1s, 7% 4 Bue iis ? > a %
ike” e a
Vs ot Jas 4 - e
: hd . 1 a
Vi
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ee

 

 

PLAYERS

dM. NAVY CUT

HI9\

/\ CIGARETTES

1\
|

 

  
 
   
   
    
 

    

 

 

|
oA / Pa

wy aeee “Super- Quality”
ces f |
i > 10 for 186

   

Wy) :
hie 50 and 100
Mir

|

my,

 
 

ay
?

  

0 More sold ;
than all other brands
combined

 

 

mew Oe ee ee

“s =

~

“—e - ©

Se Or ay ia te ae,

 

 

HE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE —

| DAL--- ST. F. X. TIEIN EASTERN COLLEGE LEAGUE |

King’s, Game Losers, Gave Tigers
Hard Struggle.

 

Dalhousie earned the right to meet St. FX.
for the Eastern Intercollegiate football championship when they defeated King’s College
by a seore of 6—0 on the Studley campus
Jast week.

The weather man again showed his dislike
for football; rain poured all during the game
and the field was a sea of mud. Heavy fog
get in and at times the players could scareely
be seen.

Dalhousie were admittedly the favorites,
nd lived up to their reputation, but King’s
gave them a hard contest and foreed the
Tigers to their utmost. King’s put up a
wonderful game, considering the amount of
practice they have had and the small amount
of material from which to select a team.

Slipp and Clouston, two of the regular
first team quarters, were missing from the
Dal line up because of injuries, and this
threw the Dal team out a little. However,
Dobson, Hewat, and McQuarrie played a
great game in their quarter positions.

King’s won the toss and kicked off into
Dal territory, but the Tigers soon forced the
ball back into the Blue and White half of the
field. Several attempts in the form of runs
by the Dal half line to count up a score
failed because of the defensive tactics of the
King’s backfield men.\ 7

McOdrum succeeded in reaching the corner
flag afier a great run but was forced outtouch before he could make his way across
the line. He was injured in the attempt, but
was able to resume play. King’s punted clear
to centre field where Fraser gathered in the
ball and made a pretty run to the King’s
twenty yard line. King’s were awarded a
free kick and reached Dal territory by dribbling and following up. Fraser by a long
punt put the Tigers in their former position.
Sutherland kicked a loose ball over the King’s
Jine and was followed up by Hewat, but the
quick action of Jakeman in kicking out of
‘boundary saved a try.

King’s kicked for safety and McQuarrie
returned the ball, the Dal half line went away
for a run and McInnes succeeded in crossing
the line for the first try of the game. The
angle was great, and the ball slippery so the
try was not converted. This ended the first
period. |

Logan kicked off for Dalhousie at the open
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

-™. Coleman, Thompson, Morrison; full-back,

FIELD HOCKEY.

The Dalhousie girls may play in an Intercollegiate League in field hockey next year.
The game was introduced at Dalhousie this
autumn, and the manager wrote to Acadia,
telling them of this new athletic development. A reply has been received from Helen
Lawson, the seeretary of the A. G. A.A. C.,
saying that they have already played ground
hockey a little at Acadia, but it has not becu
played regularly. However, they have
appointed a captain, Jean McLaughlin, to
look after ground hockey, and both the
Acadia girls and the Dalhousie girls are looking forward to some intercollegiate matches
next year. It would make it still more
interesting if Kings College would begin the
game. 
There is a rumor afloat that the ladies of
the Wanderers’ Club are thinking of playing
this game. Perhaps there will be a City
League also.

The hockey season is almost over now,
although the Freshy-Soph match is still to be
played. This match will probably take place
at 4.30 on the first fine Tuesday or Thursday.

U.N.B. WON CHAMPIONSHIP.

Although Acadia held U. N. B. to a scoreless tie in their scheduled Intercollegiate
Rugby game at Wolfville, nevertheless U. N.
B. won, the championship of the Western
Section. . :

Mt. Allison has lost to U. N. B, and Acadia
to Mt. Allison and in the resulting totals U.
N. B. has the highest number of points. U.
N. B. were the favorites, but Acadia improved
greatly under the coaching of Dr. Leon Fluck,
Dalhousie graduate last year, and former
star Gold and Black full-back.

 

——eovoloeoeq3qo+~wnr—SSee SSsaaSaS.a—eaae>——>—e—qome
King’s did not. give up..and worked harder

than ever, forcing the ball to the Tigers five |

yard line, but they were not able to get the
much needed try. This proved to be their
last attack. Dalhousie now had the upper
hand, and kept the pigskin within the Blue
and White area, until the final whistle blew
for the end of a clean hard-fought contest.
The best of feeling prevailed between the two
teams at all times. - ~~ ~~

Sutherland, Hewat and McInnes played
well for Dal. Fraser saved his team on more
than one occasion. Jakeman, Morrison and

Jackson were the best of the King’s men.

Mr. Finch refereed very satisfactorily.

Dalhousie — Forwards, MeLean, Logan,
Sutherland, McCurdy, Baird, Tupper, Sutherland; halves, McDonald, McOdrum, Langwill probably be arranged between this team
Hewat; full-back, Fraser.

King’s—Forwards, Ernst, Coleman, Dike,
Nelson, Knickle, Woolaver, Keble; halves,
White Cooper, Jackson, Norwood; quarters,

  

Wanderers Intermediates Win.

 

by defeating Dalhousie 8—6 on Thursday
afternoon the Wanderers retained the Intermediate Championship.

The Dalhousie fifteen, favored with a
strong wind, rushed the ball to the Wanderers and from there the play shifted to
eentre field. There both teams played good
ball. Then the Wanderers half line carried
the ball to Dalhousie’s twenty yard line—
Morrison punted the ball for a good gain.

The Dalhousie half-line was working better
now and McQuarrie, getting the ball from a
scrum, passed it to the half-line, finally reaching Jackson who went over near the flag for
the first try. Instead of making the touch
there, he continued on and placed it directly
behind the posts--Jakemann failed to convert.

From the kick off, the Wanderers forced
the play, keeping the ball in Dal’s end, but
Miller made a nice run and punted out of
touch. After several scrimmages, the Wanderer’s half-line got away end ‘Chick’ MeLeod evened the score. Mitchell nearly converted. Play remained around centre field
for a while—Morrison punted into Redland
and Bartlett was brought down before he
could return. The Dal’s forwards were
heeling the ball nicely and trying hard for a
seore.. Morrison again made a beautiful punt
and Mitchell had to touch for safety.

From a serim on the Wanderers twenty
yard line—Dalhousie’s half-line received the
ball and again Jackson notched up a try. It
was not converted. The first half ended with
play around centre field.

Tupper kicked off for Dalhousie. Both
sides indulged in a punting contest and after
several scrimmages play shifted to Dalhousie’s territory. Hewatt made. some nice
gains for Dal and McInnes saved the situation
with a long punt. i |

After a scrim on Dal’s ten yard line, the
Reds secured a loose ball and went over for
another try, which was converted. After
this play continued in Wanderers territory,
Mitchell was forced to touch for safety again.
The Dalhousie forwards were working hard
for another score led by Tupper.

With only a minute of play left, Hewat
receiving a pass made the nicest run of the
day, only to be downed half a foot from the
Wanderers line.

Mr. Finch refereed.

The lme up:

Dalhousie — Full-back—Miller; quarters,
Dobson, McQuarrie, Hewat; Halves, McInnes,
Morrison, Jakemann, Jackson; Forwards,
Ernst McCurdy, Orr, Hebb, Elliott, Sutherland, Tupper.

 
H

 

Kliff's Krazy Kuts

: TOOTHSOME, WHAT?

Latin 2, struggling with the names of the
classes of consonants.

Prof.—Miss Dr-sn-r, which do you prefer,
Linguals or Dentals?

Miss Dr-sn-r—Dentals!

 

Heard in English I: ‘‘You’ve got a King’s .

pin on! Why don’t you wear a gown?”’
Goaded one: ‘‘ You got an Edgehill pin on,
why don’t you wear a dress?’’

 

Overheard in the Law Library.

Kerr—‘‘ All you are saying is irrelevant.
It simply goes in one ear and out the other.’’

Slipp.—‘‘ Well, what is there to prevent
it?’’

 

Dr. Nichols (in Morbid Anatomy)

While I am talking about the spleen—I am
going to pass around this little bottle—it is an
unusual sort of thing—in this country—
especially.

 

Who is the Lecturer in Medicine whose
eloquence was such that one of his students
dislocated his jaw while yawning—the same
doctor was called upon to put the jaw in place

again.

 

JACK THE FLY KILLER.
Who was the Junior that stayed up all
night swatting flies so that he could sleep in
the next morning?

 

Page Mr. Webster!
Lecturer in Pract. Stats.—‘‘ Will somebody
give me a simple meaning of ‘context’?’’
R-d, ’24—‘‘The ‘typographical environ
ment’!’’
| Not Quite the Same!

Member of Gazette Staff: ‘‘You know, Mr.
Davidson, if you «end in material to the
Gazette you get points for it. When you
earn 25 points you are awarded you Literary
$#T)??.

Davidson ’26; ‘‘Er..—well, I already have
two literary D’s.

M. of G. S.: ‘‘Oh, did you win them for
work on your school paper ?’’

fa o.99

Cee eELainEEERaEEEEEnEREEREEInE ee et ee

:
:
F

 

 

Dav.: ‘‘Oh, no; for my themes in English !

™> ? ha wr, ri 7 7 a 2 were Spray? Tih WT

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

‘DALHOUSIE MOOT COURT.

The third session of the Moot Court was
held last Tuesday afternoon, their ‘*Lordships’’ Chief Justice Fogo, Mr. Justice Read,
and Mr. Justice MacKinnon presiding. From
a legal viewpoint this session was one of the
most successful that has been held in recent
years.

The case which dealt with the claims of an
unborn child for injuries received as the result of a motor accident on the public highway was pleaded by Messrs. Snodgrass and
Gushue for the appellant and Messrs. Dickie
and Blanchard for the respondent. Counsel
on both sides showed that they had spent
considerable time in the preparation of their
arguments and also exhibited a complete
knowledge of the law on the subject. They
presented the case to their Lordships in a
most skilful manner.

Their Lordships each delivered oral judgment from the Bench unanimously in favor
of the appellants.

 

In the case of ‘‘Newlyweds vs. The Even- ©

ing Globe,’’ heard at the second session of the
Court, their Lordships gave judgment in
favor of the appellants who were represented

by Messrs. Kerr and Hull.
—I, L. B.

FIERY CROSS AT HARVARD.

Started two years ago and growing ever since

more powerful, the Harvard Ku Klux Klan has
only waited for the favorable moment to strike.
The Klan may be expected to pursue a more open
policy ‘from now- on, as considerable secrecy has
been evident in the past.
Only recently the Fiery Cross has been seen in
Boston. The Harvard Klan was started some two
years ago and made its influence felt with a membership drive.

It is certain that the action of the University in
decreeing the policy of non-discrimination was a

 

‘signal for violent demonstrations in meetings of

the Harvard Klan. The plank in the Klan’snational platform bearing on the subject is well
known and what part of it the Harvard branch
stands for is only a question of degree.

Harvard, considered the stronghold of culture
and conservatism, is about to try its strength with
the boasted omnipotence of the Invisible Empire.

: , ern
_ Tis so, for ma says so, and if ma says |
so, ’tis so, if ’taint so.’’—H xchange. it

 

FAR AND WIDE

Acedia defeated. King’s in. an exhibition...

game of Rugby football at Wolfville by a
score of 7—0 on Nov. 3rd.

~The Fredericton High School won the
championship of the Interscholastic Rugby’

League of New Brunswick when they de- 
feated the St. John High School by the wide
margin of 17—0 at Fredericton. A play-off
will be arranged: between Fredericton and the
winners of the Nova Scotia league. :

. ae

oi t
of _* i
‘ “or ’
:

ve 3
fa
ry
rt, >
a

me

The Nova Scotia Technical College Rugby
team gave the Wanderers Intermediates a.
severe trimming when they roiled up a 21 to
nothing score in their game last week.

 

The Maritime indoor track meet will take
place in St. John on November 16th. The
usual races from 50 yards to a mile will be
held, also the field events.

Playing under strange rules, and aftcr am
all night journey by train, the Toronto Argonauts suffered defeat at the hands of the 3rd
Army Corps of Baltimore in a Rugby football
match at the Yankee Stadium, New York..
The seore ‘was 55 to 7.

 

The McGill Intercollegiate Rugby team.
took a rise out of the Hamilton Tigers at
Montreal when they defeated them by 1.
score of 7—4. The collegians rallied in thefinal quarter to score a touchdown (Canadian.
Rugby).

 

Queens won the Senior C.LR.F.U, championship for the second year in succession
when they defeated Varsity by a score of
18 to 5 before 8,000 people at Kingston.

Ottawa suffered defeat at the hands of theMontreal A. A. A. Rugby team being on the
short end of a 9 to 6 score in a game at.
Ottawa.

 

.. St. F. X. High School Rugby team.
defeated Pictou Academy at Antigonish last.
week by the close score of 3 to nothing.
Preston scored the only try of the game.

From Six toSSixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire for
greater athletic accomplishment are the

boys who pick
FQUIP«
~S MENT |
Cometo | a
CRAGG BROS. CO, LID. |
BARRINGTON ST. |
FOR ANYTHING YOU NEED IN |

   

12-3
Up—i—dee |
DALHOUSIE }
:

 

4 fi
Re Paige ra ene GP atti os
x te Whi atS SS OS hia 7s
fue ee a Oe ane .

_ EVERY LINE OF SPORT. =|
