ae ae

MT

Examine
Budgets

eed

VOL. UXVI.

 

 

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 25, 1935

 

 

Council

 

   

 

 

The Council met on Sunday afternoon in the Law Classroom to consider the budgets from Sodales,
Gazette, Glee Club and D. A. A. C.
Two other budgets were sent in, but
those who were responsible for them
were not present to explain them,
and it was decided that in future
the old ruling that all budgets must
be in the hands of the Secretary‘Treasurer at least three days before
the meeting, otherwise they will not
be considered, will be revived and
enforced.

The Gazette budget called for an
advance of three hundred dollars
over that of last year. This extra
expense was entailed because of the
eight page issues which the Editors
promised to put out this year. One
fact brought out was that while the
estimated advertising receipts of
last year were approximately
$600.00, over two hundred was still
outstanding, and that the advertising manager of last year had not yet
completed his report to the Council.

A committee, consisting of Mr.
Sutherland, business manager of the
Gazette, and Messrs. Thompson and

Manning, were appointed to draw

up a collection plan whereby all accounts would be settled before the
close of the college year. The budget
was accepted without reduction.

GLEE CLUB HIGH—

The budget of the Glee Club requested an increase of over $400.00
over that of last year. Their plans
called for five shows, for which new
equipment was required. To this
was added requests for amounts for
meals, advertising, spotlight, etc.
The budget last year called for
$590.00; this year $1,000. This addition was felt to be too high, and
the entire program was referred to
a committee for a recommendation,
which wil be aecepted by the Council.

D. A. A. C, ——

Two budgets were presented by
the D.A.A.C., one to provide for
basketball, the other for interfaculty
football meals. The amount asked
for was $324.50, a reduction of over
two hundred over that of last year.
This passed without dispute.

A second item was to provide for
meals for those engaged in Interfaculty football, $75.00. Mr. Taylor felt
that this should be dropped, and arrangement were made whereby all
games would be played on Saturdays. This proved to be impossible,
and the allotment was passed on motion of MacLellan and Manning.

“Sheaf” Is
Outspoken on War

“The Sheaff” of the University of
Saskatchewan stated in a front page
editorial that the C. O. T. C. was “a
school for murder”.

“Tf the goveriment wants an army
let them raise it some other way

_ than by bribing university students |

_ with class credits and silver spoons,”

“ae
Pi

the editorial continued. A raging
controversy followed when the C. O.

?. C. officials resented the editor’s

  

Ontario Duo
Debates Dal

ra

 

REDMEN
TIGERS BATTLE
IN EIGHT-ALL TIE

In a game replete with more thrills, spills and brilliant

 

 

play than has characterized any football game in Halifax for
the past ten years, Dalhousie’s Tigers, with the betting four
to one against them, took a lead of eight points in the first half,

  

> Se
Se

Gordon Smith

FIRST DEBATE OF
SEASON NOV. 4th

This year the N.F.C.U.S. are sending down to the Maritimes a team
composed of the above colleges, and
of all the teams which have come to
Dalhousie during the past years
under this organization, this is the
most outstanding. Both are students
of several years’ experience, and
have always taken a leading part in
the affairs of their respective universities, and they have the added
advantage over the team brought in
last year in that they are Canadians,
and therefore are more cognizant of
Canadian conditions.

Against them are Smith Maclvor,
B.A. (Acadia) and Irving Selikoff,
B.Se. (Colombia. These men are
both experienced debaters, Mr. MacIvor having been leader of Acadia
teams, while Mr. Selikoff has represented Columbia University. From
these four the outstanding debate of
the year is anticipated. The topic
is one which is of particular interest
at the present time, namely. “That
an International Police Force is Essential to World Peace.”
es LEAS iat apaonien | up the Wanderers, the boys stole the

ing authorities on this question will show from them long enough to raid
give their views to the audience. and the opposite side of the field and take
3

all phases of the question will be back the tiger which the Wanderers

thoroughly coverd. It is a topic took up. And it was no tea party by
on which all college students should|®"¥ ™eans- Few of the inner circle
be conversant, and this is an oppor- emerged without some evidence of
Rae teelall dc hear the saulte of the battle. But they had the satisweeks of preparation.

The debate will take place on Monday, November 4th, in the Gym, at
8 o’clock. All other societies are respectfully asked to avoid arranging
anything that will conflict with this
debate.

Dal Americans
Revenge Defeat

While the Dal regulars lost to
Caledonia, 28—0, the Dal American
Tigers were in top shape yesterday,
as they defeated St. Mary’s, 13—0,
in the first American football game
ever to be played on Studley campus. Cy Miller and Krebs starred

the City League looks like a
reality and not blind hope and optimism, for Saturday’s game demonstrated that we have a team that is
fight from beginning to end. True,
the backfield, as a whole, failed to
show to the best advantage, but the
scrum left the fans with aching
throats. They heeled 44 - 17, and

 

John Bossett

 

 

even when the heavier Wanderers
scrum were pushing them back. And
for this too much praise cannot be
given to Ike Mercer. He has developed into one of the best heelers in
the Maritimes, and his outstanding
performance Saturday went a long
way towards the success of the team.
And as soon as the ball came from
the scrum, the forwards were away,
and the Wanderers’ backfield were
nailed before they could organize a
run,

For The Game

And behind the team were the
Alumni in a body, even with cheer
leaders, and John McCurdy put the
pep into it. They played a large
part in bringing back the old spirit
which should characterize all our
games, and the students extend their
thanks for the response which they
made to the invitation.

Students Raid Wanderers Stand

But while the team were mopping

Through the efforts of the Presidents of the Debating Sccicties of
St. Mary’s, Kings, and Dalhousie, a
Debating League composed of City
Colleges has been organized, and is
composed of a team from St. Mary’s,
Kings, and two teams from Dalhousie.

Such a league has long been advocated for the City Colleges. The
expenses are negligible, and the experience gained from one of these
debates is just as valuable and of
equal force as participation in an
Intercollegiate or other debate. It
provides an avenue for those who
wish to debate to gain experience in
a friendly and hospitable atmosphere without the expense, loss of
time,and tension associated with a
larger and more publiczed debate.

Because of the enthusiasm which
the Freshman Class have carried
into their participation in College affairs and the degree of cooperation
which they have given to all the societies on the Campus, the executive

 

for the Tigers, scoring both touchdowns, while Capt. Mandelstain kicked the convert for the extra point.
EEE

 

DO YOU WANT A
YEAR BOOK?

There will be a meeting in
Room 3 on Thursday, Oct. 31, regarding a Year Book for the
coming year. All those interested
are asked to turn out and express their views.

Set

the ball was given to their re

Large Number of Alumni Turn 3

 

and then saw the Wanderers, with the sun and wind in their
favor, come from behind to tie them.

Last week’s prediction that Dal- faction of being hosts to the dummy
housie would be the champions of | for the last half of the game.

The Game.

Dalhousie won the toss and elected
to take the wind. And from the outset, the superior scrum carried the
ball deep into Wanderers territory.
The Wanderers kicks were carried
back by the force of the wind, and
halfway through the first half, a
passing attack which carried the ball
from the centre of the field to the
extreme left, and then to the other
side of the field, Henry Ross crossed
the line for the prettiest touch of the
game. It was a brilliant piece of
work. Sheppard failed to convert
the difficult angle. From a scrum
on the Wanderers 10 yard line, Buckley wormed his way to the line and
was brought down with inches to
spare. It was directly in front of
the posts, and Sheppard added the
two extra points, making it 8 - 0.

In the second half, with the wind
and sun against them, the play was
kept well within the Dalhousie territory. Attempts to clear by kicking
availed them little, and the high
punts of the Wanderers more than
equalled the line runs. Their first
try came as a result of following up
a high kick, and then forcing it
across by weight. The second try
was a lucky one. Connors played a
high kick for the bounce, and it got
away from him and touched down.
The convert was added to tie the
score. In the closing moments,
Young was awarded two free kicks
from twenty yards, but both failed

to go over.
For Dalhousie, Mercer, Gunter,
Dewolfe, MacSween and Buckley

were outstanding, Grant, Boyd and
Young starring for Wanderers.

 

CITY LEAGUE DEBATES
TOBEGIN WEDNESDAY

of Sodales have agreed to place a
team in the Leagued rawn entirely

from the Freshmen Class, and, fur
 

ther that in the event of Dalhousie
reaching the finals and the right to
take part in the final debate emblematical of the City League championship, the team which will represent Dalhousie will be made up of
Freshmen.

The opening debates will take
place October 30th, when one Dalhousie team will meet Kings at
Dalhousie and the other Dalhousie
team will debate against St. Mary’s
at St. Mary’s. The topic for both
debates is: “Resolved that this
House Favors a Union of the Maritime Provinces” Dalhousie will support the negative in both instances.

To these debates the support of
the students is essential to make
them a success, and when a Dalhousie Team is debating against any
other at Dalhousie let the students
of Dalhousie show their interest in

(Continued on Page Four)

 

  
 

 

Sls selene emma

Naam mmnn een r ncn nese

ee sessessssSet-seene

   

  
 

 

AN [)|N. F.C. U.S.

Debater

 

ERNEST RICHARDSON

 

DEBATING TEAM
BEGINS TOUR

The Maritime Debating Team,
composed of J. Ernest Richardson,
B.A., Dalhousie, representing Nova
Scotia, and J. M. Morrisey, B.A.,
of U.N.B., representing New Brunswick, leave next week on an extended tour of U. S. Universities,

The tour, sponsored by the N. F.
C. U. S. includes debates with University of Maine, Bates, Harvard,
N. Y. U., Mt. Holyoke, and Springfield. Their first debate is against
the University of Maine on October
30th, and concludes on November 15.

The team is exceptionally strong.
Mr. Morrissey has built up an enviable record for himself in Maritime
Debating Circles and will prove an
able representative of his Province.
Mr. Richardson is the outstanding
Debater developed at Dalhousie in
recent years. He has debated for
Dalhousie on four occasions, and has
a wide experience in politics and
public life, experience which will
prove of great benefit to the team
this year. Last year in the Radio
Debates conducted by the Radio
Commission, he led the team into
the Canadian semi-finals.

The results of the Debates will be
given to the students through the
medium of the Gazette each wee':.

The Students of Dalhousie join in
extending to Messrs. Morrissey and
their best wishes for a_ successful
tour, and irrespective of results, the
Maritimes will be ably represented.

Battle a Draw
In High-hatting

According to newspaper reports,
Dalhousie co-eds do most heartily
plead that they are free from snobbishness or anything that savors
of it,

Five well-known campus representatives were interviewed, and they
said there was none. The Gazette
said there was some high-hatting.
The battle is so far, a draw.

 

 

  

GAZETTE MEETING

There will be a meeting of the
Gazette staff and those interested
in the Gazette in the Gazette office on Monday, Oct. 28th, at 2
p.m. All are urged to be attend.

 
      
     

Opens

 

 

 

————— re er

UIQVUUUONOOOULULOOOO0USQUELUSUED LASALLE

 

Acadia ?

 

AUUIOUUULQOOUPSLEONULNUOULES0U UNL ALU UA

 

No. 5

Freshies

To Give
One Act

| Plans are practically completed
‘for the coming Freshman Glee Club
| Show to be held at the Gymnasium
lon Friday evening, November Ist,
}at 8.15 o’clock. Under the capable
directorship of Joe Connolly The
Frosh been rehearsing en\ergetically and are progressing
with great strides. The incoming
class seems to have brought with it
/much more talent than any other
'Freshman class of the past few
| year.

 

 

 

have

The show will open with that rollicking, mirth - provoking one - act
farce, “Thank You, Doctor’. The
|play is not only abundant in laughs
|but is also full of thrills and sus/pense. The second part of the show
| will consist of a hitherto bit of hilar‘ious entertainment entitled “His
|Master’s Voice”, or “Kicking the
|Gong Around”, The riotous action
of this part of the show takes plac
far from Ethiopia in an enclosure
ruled by that Dictator of Dictators,
Pat MacDonald, well known Glee
Club performer of past years.

After the show all are invited to
|remain until curfew to dance the
_polka or the minuet, to say nothing
of Adagio, to the sweet melodies of
Laurie Hart and his sophisticated
rhythm.

Fraternities Upheld
In Dal Debate

“Resolved that fraternities should
be abolished from Dalhousie” was
|the topic under discussion at the
debate held in Shirreff Hall Tuesday
night. The resolution was supported
by Betty Pierson, Joan Furlong and
Joyce Sercum, and opposed by Barbara Bennett, Frances Martell and
Marion Ross.

 

 

 

The speakers for the affirmative
condemned fraternities on the ground
that they had a corrupting influence
on student government by dividing
the student’s loyalty between his
fraternity and his Alma Mater. They
also contended that fraternities
favor the select few, and many students, through no fault of their own,
|are considered outsiders. This, they
termed “childish snobbishness”.

Miss Sercum suggested the students’ union as a cure for the evil.
This all-inclusive organization would
provide all the facilities for social
life that are found in the fraternity.
The financial difficulty of erecting
Such a building could be surmounted
(Continued on Page Four)

Club Holds Its
First Outing

The Dawson Geological Club held
its first field trip of the season on
Saturday, October 19th. A wideawake crowd assembled at 7 a.m.
and set out for Londonderry, where
they examined the pre-cambrian ore
of the Cobequid mountains, which is
exposed in the river gorge near
there. During the day the enthusiastic geologists loaded their cars
with fossils and specimens of the

iron ore from the old Londonderry
mines.

 

 

 
   
  
 
    
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
     
   
    
    
 
 
  
 
   
  

ey he Oldest College P Paper in » America”

IRVING PINK
B. 2442

Sports Editor
TED CREASE

B. 5737
Assistant
DOUGLAS CREASE
B. 5737

or alumnae, and student body! You
d irit on Saturday of which each Dalhousian
iy present ‘and ee may truly be proud. The people who
ime and effort in whipping up an unprecedented
ousie were well rewarded by the co-operation

i But the t. is ne begun. On the Saturday after next
= the e Tigers go down to Wolfville to play Acadia. It is in this
hi e game that the boys will ned not only your moral support, but
ih ba your very presence. The Acadians have set an example of what
a can really be done in the way of supporting a team. They
eh orought a good crowd with them when they played here last,
is and in past years have always managed to arrange for a special
_ train for “rooters’”. Why can’t Dalhousians do the same thing?

There i is certainly an excellent time in store for all who take in
iN “i ‘such a venture. Talk the thing up; see your D. A. A.C. repre. oy, f ntative; see that he makes some arrangements to get a large
pe ne a of supporters down to se the boys defeat the Axemen.

a

v

al
*
* ey

AN

‘DOES SHIRREFF HALL NEED PUBLICITY?

"Since the College term has begun, Dalhousie has been rene ving a great deal of publicity in the daily press. As we have
stated many times before, there are some things which the
 —pa vers tell the world about our University which are true and
, and which may truly be called news. Then again there
re other times at which events at Dalhousie are grossly exaged and misrepresented. Our President has been misted, our peace plebiscite was openly declared as “silly”, and
an his past week Shirreff Hall “made the front page’.
atements such as these may truly have their place on our
ampus, but they should be carried no further. Perhaps an extebe illustrate exactly what we mean.
ast week the Gazette carried an item regarding Freshettes
oritism. This article was published only after a num
| changed;

is o What?
(Without prejudice)

Rt. Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King is
about to take over the reins of office
as Prime Minister of Canada. May
a quotation be pardoned?

“Change has set in and unless
every individual is satisfied with his
estate, the government has failed. Is
it any wonder that no government has

|so far been able to retain office

whenfaced by such an insistent public demand? The standards by
which a government is judged have
new governments must
seek somehow to satisfy these
changed standards.”

The above was printed in this column of the Gazette on October 4th
of the present year. This is no attempt as “I told you so”, but rather
a justification of what was then
written.

It is in a way unfortunate that
virtue must very often be its own
reward. aCn it be denied that the
depression alone and unaided was
sufficient to defeat the Conservative
ooo Many a ballot was
cast with the inward feeling that,
A aisough there was nothing particularly wrong with the government in
power, the millenium had not yet
come, wherefore the government
must be overturned. Enough of post
mortem, the future demands attention,

The Liberal party stands pledged |
in general to the social reforms
which have already ben instituted, as
wel as to those which had been fove~\
cast but not yet actually enacted by
the old government. The differences
of platform are indeed negligible.
Although oppositions to justify their
name must vote against these measupes in Parliament, rarely if ever is
it on the ground of objection to the
principle of the Bill, but there is a
disagreement concerning certain details, or the mode of enactment, or
the constitutionality of the measure,
whatever. Could an accurate survey be made, who wil deny that a
substantial majority of those whose
croses were found opposite the names
of Liberal candidates felt sure that
the status quo would be maintained,
and that yesterday would continue
unimpeded into tomorow? ‘To the
average voter the Liberal and Conservative parties are the obverse and |
reverse sides of the same old coin

. re er of Preshetted approached the Gazette and informed us of|Which has done yeoman service for

    
  
   
   
 

wD “Veating place on the campus.

e situation. Their feelings were made public with no idea of | Upwards of sixty-five years. Personal
_ Malice or with no idea that hard feelings would be created. We)|¢onsiderations, worthy and unworthy,
__Were merely carrying out the standards of the Gazette, namely,| decide which receives his vote, but
_ to inform the students of Dalhousie of the events as they are|the elector has the asurance that it
We felt that the article deserved|™akes no difference anyway.
the prominence we gave it. If some students felt hurt or felt; Strongest endorsation of the record
that the story was entirely untrue we were the ones who should of the Conservative government lies

The

oa a have been told, and had anything to the contrary been written|in the fact that the Reconstruction

  
 

in to us we surely would have published it, and incidentally |Party was swept from the poll. Faith

"given it as much prominence as the first article received. But|in the old time political parties has

     
 
    
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
   
 
   
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
  

fence to the official college paper. And, too, the daily paper in

publicity would be given to the situation.

co-eds as a whole but also to Shirreff Hall as well.

ri People outside of Dalhousie have just laughed at the article.

They laugh
_ their troubles.

x -of person that lives within its confines.

lege by the Sea’.

tals we can tell them how we feel about it. But let us not de_ liberately go out of our way to make ourselves obvious. There
surely is a time and a place for everything, and the Gazette is
epee e lace for College news.

 

THE COMMUNITY CHEST AND DALHOUSIE

; . On ‘Monday next, October 28th, the Community Chest
ee. ai will officially open, and will continue throughout the
nt week. During the past two years a new team working on be>) half of this great organization, Dalhousie-Kings, has been very
____ much in the public eye. It has been a demonstration that these
ot wo | institutions are interested in a practical way in the welfare
f the community. The Delta Gamma Society has entered into
- Comn unity Chest spirit for several years, and their yearly
tril butions have averaged seventy-five and one hundred dolrs. Las t year for the first time, the student body as a whole
pre ached and the results were very encouraging. Over
dollars \ was received from the student body as a whole,

Delta Gamm, Society contributed $74.65, making a
; $165.00. This year the Student body will once
th regard to this Campaign. If each

ae the

 

price of one movie show over two hunae net The cause is indeed

|

‘no, such was not to be the case, for laziness seems to be an ex-; not been shaken; the Liberals are to
~ treme virtue. It was much easier to tell the reporter of a daily |carry on from the point at which the
_ paper a few lines than to sit down and write in the de-| Conservatives left off.

Why was not more support giv en |

the people of Canada turned aside
from the quest of social welfare

_to think that college women spend their time telling the world| legislation? Such is by no means the

case. Deep down in their hearts,

We of Dalhousie realize that Shirreff Hall is a great asset | however, the people of Canada are
to our University. It is well known everywhere for the fine| essentially conservative.
Such publicity as | very evident distrust of what is new.
~ mentioned above would almost go so far as to change the|8y their ballots the voters expressed
opinion of a number of people who know little about our “Col-|@ desire to se actual legislation put
Shirreff Hall does not need such type of ad-!upon the statute books to remain
_vertising, so let us in the future keep such College matters to|there, and, whether rightly or wrongourselves. If then the daily press wishes to pry into our por-|!y, there was a feeling that a Recon
There is a

struction or C.C.F. government could
not accomplish’ this end. Not only do
Canadians desire social reform; they
desire to be certain of getting it.
Third parties in Canada have successively met the same fate. There
has not been aroused a sufficient dis
trust of the old parties to swing}

popular suport in favor of the new,
regardless of their promises.

The government elect has no easy
task. It must be measured, as was
the old government, not by a comparative but by an absolute standard

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

THE

OBSERVATORY

(By Observer)

 

We mentioned in our iast week’s
column to the new lease of life which
Dalhousie has assured this year in
the matter of better team spirit. We
applied it then more particularly to
sport.

It is a happy coincidence, and not
altogether an accidental one, that the
same spirit is being manifested in
the more intellectual activities of the
University.

The students, this year, seem to
have developed what might be called
“debate - consciousness”. Not for
some time has debating been considered and entered into so seriously
as it is this year. New chances for
debating are offered, and are being
as eagerly snatched up. Perhaps we
may lay part of the cause for this at
the door of the creditable showing
Dalhousie made last year in the
inter-University Radio debates. It
should be a very near possibility
that with the increasing interest in
debating this year, Dalhousie should
gain that coveted place in the series
that she was so near gaining last
year.

We congratulate Sodales on its
achievements in presenting so varied
a program this year; but a word—
much more good could be acomplished if the society would stick to its
own field, debating, and leave other
things alone.

 

Dalhousie makes news for the local
papers again; only this time it warrants an editorial comment.

In reference to the recent plebiscite (will we never hear the last of
it?) one editor believes it doesn’t
matter what Dalhousie students
think, so long as they do think— a
very hackneyed idea even for a newspaper editor.

In our opinion, the act of marking
“Yes” or “No” opposite certain questions is less an act of thought than
one imagines. That half the student
body voted at all shows that the students are, to that extent, interested
in what is going on, but we fail to
see how it can be construed as a
greater act of thought than some
people performed at the polls of this
county last Monday.

Think! Yes, we all do some of

 

| tion constitution.

 

     

To be a dictator it is not necessary
to control the political power. To
control the purse-strings of the nation will be quite enough. What
then of President Roosevelt, who has
almost eleven billion dollars to spend
as he sees fit? Political power is
paralyzed before the might of money
as our Canadian politicians have not
hesitated to tell us. Control of so
much money gives too great powe!
to any one man. Even though he
fulfil his trust to the best of his
ability yet a nation may endure because of it far greater suffering and
oppression than under the veriest
tyrant.

 

The political situation in Egypt is
not very bright. On coming into
power Premier Nissim promised the
Egyptians to obtain freedom from
British rule and to secure an EgypBritain has no intention of allowing him to do this
and the people are dissatisfied. Due
te the danger threatening the Suez
Canal they had hoped Britain would
grant them these concessions to secure their sympathy and support.
Since Britain has so far made no
more disturbances seem likely.

 

Last week by a coup d’etat the
Austrian Vice-Chancellor von Starhemberg dismissed his enemies from
office and seized more tightly the
reins of government. He thus becomes a virtual dictator with control
of the Fascist Army. The Austrian
Government is definitely pro-Italian
but a majority of the people is Nazi.
Hitler, indeed, looks on Austria as a
German province and in May announced his plan for plebiscite there.
Daily Mussolini becomes more seriously embroiled in Ethiopia and the
protection he can offer to Austria
less.

SOMETHING “TO”
THINK ABOUT

I

Mascicki, who succeeded Pilsudski
as President of Poland, is a scientist

and one-time professor. It is not
strange then that he has chosen the
members of his government by their
qualifications as economists and not
as politicians. He promises a new
deal that will lead the country out
of the depression and release it from
the iron bureaucracy set up by
Pilsudski.

 

DeValera’s attempt to gain political independence for Ireland by
making her economically independent has resulted in a fifty per cent
decrease in trade with Great Britain
in three years. Yet the consequent
surplus of agricultural products has
enabled Ireland to endure the depression with the minimum of distress,
DeValera has provided old age pensions and a splendid medical service
paid for by the Lotteries. His whole
energies are directed to absolute
freedom from Great Britain, economic as well as political. In his fight
the Irish are back of him to a man;
but quite evidently England ranks an
Abyssian above an Irishman,

 

It is seldom that an econcmic
answer cannot be found to a political
event. An explanation of the friendly overtures made by the God-fearing
nations of the world toe the formerly
despised Russia lies in the fact that
the Soviet is now the world’s second greatest producer of gold. Production in all other resources is
increasing at an equal rate and with
an area three times that of the
United States relatively undeveloped
will soon become the greatest market
in the world. With a dollar at stake
the capitalists countries are quite
willing to overlook their political

convictions.

rT
The problem presented to them ad-, necessarily, and the Hall-girl, being
mitted of only two solutions; those| person of very superior intellect

who voted chose the more logical.

 

And now a word from the campus
itself.

Rightly or wrongly, the Gazette
has been broadly hinting at funny

that, but to feel that because Dal] business among the “Hallites” this

students’ thinking happens to coin-| year.

cide with that of many other nationally-minded ctiizens, these students
had very little originality of their
own—well, that’s another matter.

 

of perfection. Financial troubles may
of course be blamed upon the former
government, and Canadians will
swallow the story with copious helpings of salt. Several of the projected measures of social reform will be

‘which the statements of a number of Shirreff Hail girls ap-|the parties which offered the most) put into effect, others will quietly be
es. . peared has a much larger circulation than the Gazette and more| Sweeping reform measures? Has the
ql It was never once|Summing-up recently given in this
realized that such publicity was not only harmful to Dalhousie|¢olumn been proved wrong, and have

dropped. Of the reform statutes already passed some will be varied in
the name of consistency in order to
justify last year’s bitter opposition
to those very measures. Substantially, however, the King government
will be the Bennett government in
sheep’s clothing. it has been given
a mandate to complete the latter’s
work. If Mr. King fails, he too will
be turned out at the end of his term.
Something must be done to continue
the electorate in the belief that the
state is paying adequate attention to
each and every individual. Mr. King
will pass out the pap of social legislation, realizing all the time that the
things for which he receives no credit
indeed which he must keep quiet, are
most for the good of the country as
a whole. Nevertheless, just as his
predecessor in office has done, Mr.
King will probably see to it that in
the long run the people get what
they want whether they want. it or
not. That is, in fact, just what the
people of Canada want, although by
their ballots they have shown that
that is not what they want.

Stee
a worthy one. Out of every hundred dollars collected $35 goes

for the sick poor, $24 for the nedy, $22 for child welfare, $13

for character building, $2 for
for expenses.

Halifax is calling on you
themselves.

your bit.

animal protection, and only $4

to help those who cannot help

Show your true Dalhousie spirit. Let us do our
share to make this year a banner one for the Community Chest.
Let us set our quota for two hundred dollars. A mere donation’
of twenty-five cents apiece will fill the bill.

So be sure to do

 

 

  

 

eae

We agree with them in believing that the deficiencies in organization or in anything else of College
groups should be exposed, but we
would like to hear the other side of
the question.

In conversation the other day with
some inmates of that venerable edifice, to wit, Shirreff Hall,

was politely told off about this matter. It seems, gentlemen, that the
girls suspect you of baiting them un
 

 

 

|
|

or a suit of tails.

 

Observer |

 

 

PARTY TIME IS HERE

Others at $30.00 and $35.00.
the same reasonable prices.

ean easily see through “those transparent gentlemen of the Dal press,”

Well girls, I’m sorry for you. In
the first place those transparent
gentlemen may actually think that
you don’t see through their schemes
(we’re very modest, really), and they
consequently deplore your lack of
spirit—Observer has heard it deplored, you know—and in the second
place, you ought to have grit enough
to fight them on their own ground.
Surely you’re equal to it!

Silence gives consent, and if your
attitude is any indication, then you
really are as bad as these fellows
claim you are. You may not think
much of these men, but surely you
have some respect for yourselves.

 

Formal Evening

Wear - - 
To be in the social swim one must have a dinner jacket
We are featuring a smartly tailored
Tuxedo Suit with Silk Vest at $25.00, complete.

Accessories to match at

| See the new black Hambure’s Hat for evening
wear as featured by Esquire.

SHANE’S

MEN'S SHOP |

THIRTY SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

DISCOUNT OF 10% TO DALHOUSIE STUDENTS

 

fs

ti Lis

UE > a Ls . A ' li” My “_ . re ao tx ‘5 A , J 5 1 " A dcwad Seta sea ho eg el ie Pe ae ee al i aes oe

  

ed i ~
~~ 4

 

 
  

init aie ean grasp. Ae clubbed fingers and—” Oh, excuse
tions are not promised, but) me, a tall, husky chap has fainted.
be surprised by the obvious Wait, I'll get his name.
y occurrences that slipped your] it’s Jack Worrell, the varsity full
will

   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
   

etre oe let me men
sath Dinyéne wishing to provide “info”
es ‘or T.Y.M.

We open the door of the Maker
pop the Forrest Hall see wre

ray at a solemn injustice, the
shee Two welleaies students

a ak baltion where one fastemosor has
eS es to another that his choice
; is more clever than the other’s. We
rest on high stools while the instrucE tors wager as to the apparent outcome of quizzing both students, each
re taking a student at alternate weeks
+ o and grading him accordingly. The
ae, contest concluded, the defeated and
‘us - vexatious instructor then approachPe ey es his candidate and remarks, “Rane 8 kin, you........!” This is not merey ; . -rymaking, so come away and watch
2: the egg-candles at work in the Em5 _ bryology lot.
83 “Don’t mind him, folks, that’s only
Johnny Morrison spilling some eggie yolk on his Bostonion drawl. Frogs
ve a aren’t civilized, Johnny—they mulpe _tiply like the dickens. Have another |
yi egg.”
Tes Tae. ow, tdentlotacn, when you
es R ghatieve: a. Professor couple the an“tics of a physical director with
studies it is possible to conclude
why one person can command the
- genuine respect of all. Incidentally,
the same voice lauds the fact that
vate Gazette knows more about the
_ Anatomy Class than the Ist year.
% Those grooved stairs have been
stepped on by famous feet, and even
ee a famous imprints are being
Tae ‘made. | So, let’s descend them and
_ direct our steps to the Tuberculosis
Hospital. | The doctor in the white
ures vis. pacing: the concepts of

en
§ os
‘ »

=a

7

ee ee ——

and enter the sanctuary of the Biodid time two weeks ago reguzitating their entrails, and now are in|dulging in a fascinating work with

gence,

: when the Dean is host and Dr,

  

"You demand what is meant by

My, oh my,

back, What’s that, Jack:
'|thought you saw a mouse?
We recross the lawn, where the
flowers are drooping and the grasses turning a pale yellowish green,

you

chemists.. These boys had a splen
fluids of low potence and high pun
Ringside seats can be arranged at
the Gaiety Theatre the next time
Stenaford and Ryan partake in a
hectic free-for-all,. while Johnny
Glorioso defends his ffistic title
crashing chairs, blackening eyes and
yelling, “Who wants to buy a duck?”

Our tour continues. Dr. Maclean
will take us to Oakfield on a health
survey. We shall see and feel the
typical English hospitality when we
meet the colonel. A choice collection of prize bulls and cows are
proudly displayed, and then to be entertained by the colonel and his wife
at a delightful tea. Of course none
of you will ask Sid Lefcowitz to
distinguishe a cow from a bull as
Leo Green did.

Seats were not available at the
Licks abet of Gallipoli,” for you all

Atlee puts on the show, it’s always
a full house. If any of you desire
it, and can afford it, take a trip to
Miscouce, P. E. I., and help Earl
Grant collect the bottles that went
to fill the “cup of cheer’ for the
loyal supporters who put his dad in
parliament. And for those impetuous persons, without reason, a tour
to Dartmouth could be provided
where a charming nurse awaits.
And so runs our train of observation, catching glimpses here and
there. T.Y.M. hopes you have en[eee de SN

 

Asta Me Aelia As Rigas se
MIDNIGHT OIL AND STILL @
HAVE A PILE OF ne :
uh alias YOU. ae

THE

 

5 BEST
‘MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

a
2 eee .
7

“BACKSIGNT
FORESIGHT

What's ° wrong with the Students’
Council ?
the most important meeting of the
year, at which more than $3,000
worth of budgets were considered,
there were barely enough members
to furnish a quorum; indeed, at one
point in the proceedings, there was

not a quorum, and a halt had to be
called until the lost sheep returned.

Possibly the absent members of the
Council had a good and sufficient
excuse, but it certainly looks bad.
We had thought that Fisher’s pep
talks had inaugurated a new era in
our student politics, but perhaps we
were mistaken—even John was absent on Sunday, doubtless for good
and sufficient reasons.

Apparently the old story has not
lost its truth—that there are persons around the campus who like to
pass out the glad hand, reap a
goodly share of honorable positions,
and yet avoid all responsibility and
all work. We hope the reader won’t
think we are picking on the Council; many of its members are conscientious and hard-working to the
utmost degree. In it, however, as in
perhaps all other campus organizations, there are individuals who accept responsible posts, without apparently realizing that by so doing
they are undertaking a duty which
they must perform.

 

Just to change the subject, we will
now take a crack at the editor of
the Halifax Mail. Highly flattered
as Dalhousie students undoubtedly
were to have their Peace Ballot results made the subject of three leading editorials on successive days, we
do not think that they merited the
caustic criticisms meted out to them.
The worthy editor claimed that the
forty-éight students who favored
the suppression of aggression by
League military measures and yet
who refused to bear arms personally were guilty of “great inconsistency”. Surely there is no necessity
of incompatibility between the two
situations. The present writer voted

.|that way himself, not that is any

recommendation, I am quite willing
to send the army and the militia and
the Dalhousie C. O. T. C. to Abysinia, or anywhere else, no matter
how far away, and yet have no desire to go myself.

Those who joint an army presumably. like that sort of life, and must
be willing to take all risks incidental
to their profession, just as a policeman must presumably enjoy policing. Surely one must be strongly in
favor of law and order, and yet not
desire to be a policeman, without
any danger of inconsistency. We
agree, however, with our friend, the
Mail editor, that the Ballot was not
in any sense “silly”, nor “a d
lot of foolishness”, as one of our
worthy Council members called it.

 

 

It rather looks as if the old question of the Year Book will come up
again this year. For three years
now there has been no material mement by which the graduating
classes might recall the happy years
spent in this seaside college. It
sems to boil down to a question of
relative value. Will the value received from a Year Book be com
mensurate with the amount of money

spent to produce it? We certainly
cannot afford $1800 or so, the amount
spent in former years, for this little
luxury. But we can surely afford a
smaller amount, such as the amount
proposed by Don Archibald’s plan a
few years ago ($500 or thereabouts).
No publication would be preferable
to one which would be too cheap and
shoddy in appearance. But if we
can get out a book respectable
enough in set-up for an amount
which will suit the Council’s pocketbook, and it appears on a superficial
view of the facts that we can, then
by all means we should do so. The
question was too hastily dismissed
two years ago; it merits a more
careful consideration now, and the}
sooner the better. The Council
should look into the matter immediately. Let’s have a Year Book if
we possibly can. And we can.

 

Why is Don MacLeod so fearful

of having his name in the “Gazette?”

Last Sunday, at perhaps}

jby the recent attempt of a group,

 

  
 
 
  
     
     
    

 
 
  

SUMMER JOBS —and some are
not, but the Dalhousians who dispensed gasoline during the past
summer are unanimous in saying
that this work was work. In the old
days, according to the movie czar’s
ideas about college life, footballmen
delivered ice to get themselves into
condition. With the advent of electric refrigeration, a new summer
training was necessary. Thus evolved
the service station.

We know at least two lads who
were thus employed in the city—
George Thomson and Henry Ross.
When we were able to borrow the
family chariot there never was any
petrol in the tank, and so we used
to coast down to see Henry, who
very kindly sold us our half-gallon.
Yes, sir, he gave us just as much
consideration as if we were purchasing the usual two gallons. And he
did look natty in those Imperial
rompers and the first officer’s hat.

*% * %

Drama is being enacted at Shirreff
Hall—but wait, please, ladies, do not
misunderstand us: we do not share
the rather caustic views that some
of our contemporaries have. On the
contrary, we are always awed on the
infrequent occasion that we are privileged to wait twenty minutes in the
drawing room whilst mylady (general term) puts on the finishing
touches. But the drama—President
Stanley and the Board of Governors
take pleasure in announcing THE
PASSING OF THE THIRD FLOOR
BACK,

In our first issue we discussed
romance very briefly. We had intended to keep our readers informed
about any new developments, but we
must confess that we have not been
in a position to find out about the
latest inflictions—you see our girlfriend turned out to be true to another. We did hear one story which
may bear repeating. The poor lad
was being told that he no longer
was the big moment in her young
life. The lad sighed—regret or relief ?

She: “Now that I have turned you
down, I suppose that you will commit suicide?”

He: “Yes, undoubtedly, for that
has been my aay: neusters. de

Had Bivaidat Stanley attended
the Freshie-Soph we think that he
would have found the dancing of
high order; it was a surprisingly
good dance, even if Laurie did fail
us.
about the playing, but we do think
that he could have modernized his
repertoire—perhaps he was playing
the ultra modern music, and if this
be the case we agree that the oldfashioned tunes are the best—providing they are not too old-fashioned.
It may be that our taste has deteriorated, but this we know that
previous times we have
Laurie’s music more enjoyable.

HK

on
found

We have always been of the belief
that fraternities were a worthy addition to college life; we have many
reasons for saying this. Our good
opinion has been shaken somewhat

who, according to our informant, endeavoured to prevent a candidate
from running in the recent election
for student offices. This, to our
mind, is an extremely unfraternal

The “Howling Hyenas”, (the self
to

 

act. The only pleasing element about
the matter is that the threat did not
work and Barton was elected. We
take our hat off to Freddie.
1% 8

Lester reports an unusual story.
The other evening, when searching
for the Invisible man who was exhibiting himself near the Hall he
(Lester) had occasion to pass a car
that was parked in the roadway behind the Residence. Soft music was
being wafted on the night air. Lester was rather fascinated by the
modern invention — car radio — and
stopped for a moment to listen to
the pleasant sounds. Suddenly out
of the quiet came a sweet voice:
“Stop.”

For a moment, Lester was puzzled

lt isn't a matter of chance
that Turret Cigarettes are
so popular. Their finer
tobaccos have won for them
the nation-wide preference
that quality alone creates.
Smoke Turrets yourself, and
get the same sutisfaction
other Turret smokers enjoy!

     

SAVE THE VALUABLE

[t isn’t a matter
of chance /

ne and Mildness
rret

CIGARETTES

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

 

       
   
   
   
   
 
    
   
    

 

POKER HANDS

 

PINE HILL
PEN PRICKS

arrogated title of the residents of
the old building), have issued a
challenge to the “Annex Alley-Rats”
to participate in the Annual Thanksgiving free-for-all on the Studley
grounds. The first named are under
the guidance of “Gibraltar” Nicholson, captain, and “Squat’ Rogers,
manager,

Up until press time, the Alley-Rats
either completely cowed by the
threatening tone of the challenge, or
supercilious to the last degree have
not answered the challenge. But we
hope that ere Thursday comes, that
they will recover sufficiently to
scratch up a team so that the ancient
custom may be preserved for posterity. By the time these notes appear, those who have not experienced
it before, will realize how impossible
it is to work up an appetite which
will do justice to our Thanksgiving
dinner without having
beforehand.

the game

 

Once again the theologues have invaded the peace of the Residence
and have brought with them a goudly |
number of Mt. A men. The piano
is doing yeoman service and seems to

We have no serious complaint| be working twenty-four hours a day,

always
periods.

excepting the quiet hour

————__.

Personal references seem to be at
a low ebb, but we would like to ask

one or two questions in the hope of

| stirring one or two consciences to

renewed life after a summers disuse.

Why does Bill Pace still receive
such long and apparently fascinating
letters, although he is, to all intents
and purposes, ‘home” again?

 

If Ian Robb has any reason for
not shaving, or if he is just trying
appear optimistic?

 

What happened to (or in) Gard.
Ward’s car last Saturday night?

 

Who asks all these foolish. questions anyway?

 

Is Harry Smith a freshman or a
sophomore ?
es esieeeicenbarenpsstesitaieenitisesieenshineeeemee
until he realized that “Stop” was a
very important word in telegrams,
and doubtless those within the car
were busily engaged in *some kind
of business. Then again came the
word, “Stop”, but this time the voice
was not so insistent. After a short
silence the word was repeated soothingly. Then, in a rather determined
masculine voice: “I will not stop.”
What then? The sweet voice merely
said, “Well, at least, I have done my
duty.” Silence reigned as Lester
continued on his way to find the|
Terror, and the radio softly purred, |
“T surrender, dear.”

 

Do You
Know

That there is no evidence that
Romulus ever lived; that Cloelia
swam the Tiber; that Horatius defended a bridge against an army;
that the number of Xerxes’ army
has been grossly exaggerated, and
that it was not stopped at Thermopylae by three hundred Spartans but
by seven thousand; that the siege
of Troy is largely a myth, and even
according to Homer’s own account,
Helen must have been sixty years
old when Paris fell in love with her?

 

That historians have deprived Diogenes of his tub; Sappho of her
lover; Rhodes of its Colussus; that
Portia did not swallow burning coals;
that Caesar never crossed the Rubicon, nor did he ery out “Et tu,
Brute” as he fell at the base of
Pompey’s statute; that Nero was not
a monster; he did not kill his mother,
nor fiddle over burning Rome?

ST

That Alfred never allowed the
cakes to burn, nor ventured into the
Danish disguised as a minstrel; that
Richard III was not a hunchback
and was not wicked; that Henry VIII
was a saint-like personage who, by
destiny rather than by choice, -became a sort of professional widower;
that Washington never cut down the
cherry-tree; that the Duke of Wellington- never uttered the famous
words, “Up, Guards, and at them”?

 

That the road to hell is paved with
good intentions?

Birks-.

This year again Birks
will service all Balfour
contracts for Fraternity jewellery, stationery, favors and novelties. A wider range
and better facilities
than before.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

DANCE MUSIC
Laurie Hart
And His Orchestra.

Call B-6489 Halifax

 

 

 

*
:
‘

%
 

 

  

‘They snub that awful cheat,
_._ -He bares their thoughts,

= He writes for the weekly sheet.

Wee Ee a Reveals their acts,

 

4), The way of a columnist is hard
“indeed. After the first few issues

he becomes a sad and forlorn creature. The old saying that no one
_~ loves a fat man can truthfully be

_ applied to him. Everybody abuses
him. For instance, take the case of

__ “Grandpappy Cueball ‘Looie”. The

Cueball bitterly resents the fact that
he has been nicknamed ‘“Cueball”.
Quotes the Cueball, “Think of my
professional dignity. Can you im
_ agine my patients (if I get any)

calling me Doctor Cueball?”

 

Another irrate reader accuses me
of being stupid and brainless and
threatens to lay me out like a roof
if I don’t stop kidding him, while
yet another has promised me the
treat of spreading me out like paint.
- But regardless of all these threats,
I shall carry on. I feel that I have
a mission to perform. Right is
might. Who knows—I might, and
then I might not.

 

The “Boning” Season has been
officially opened. Students are now
sneaking into the Lab. at 6 am.—
go without dinner and stay on till
6 p.m. Ambition can’t be built of
sterner stuff.

 

The very unwise remarks made by
the writer of “Take Your Medicine”
has elicited quite a spirited response
from the boys. Sophomore Egan
submits the following:

Meds Elect Their
Student Officers

The Students Medical Society,
which enjoyed such a successful year
under President “Albie” Eagles and
his caharts on the executive last year
has again been organized, and plans
are being drawn up for an even
more successful and enjoyable society this year.
~ The first meeting of the year was
tauen up largely with the election

of officers, committees and Inter
factulty team managers.

The officers elected for the year
are:

Pres.—Ned Maddison
Vice-Pres.—Carl Trask
Treas.—Charlie MacDonald
Secty.—Gordon Lea
The difficult task of managing the

book bureau is in the hands of Basil

_ Coady.

Carl Stoddard was elected as Medical Representative on the D.A.A.C.
Managing Committee. For managers
of the various medical Interfaculty
teams, the following were chosen:

Football—Toby Beeber.

Track—Hymie Maganet

Basketball—Carl Stoddard

Softball—Harry Gaum

Fraser Nicholson was elected as
auditor of the Book Bureau Accounts.

City League Debates-
(Continued from Page One)

the efforts that is being made in their
behalf, and attend. All male students in the University, who are
interested in debating are asked to
get in touch with either Mr. Kane
or Mr. Daley at Studley or Mr. Manning, at the Law School. Because
of the frequency of these debates,
no trials will be held, and places on
the team will be awarded to those
who have shown an interest in them.

 

The ideal place for
class parties now is
the newly decorated
Green Lantern Palm
Room. Tastily decorated, central, reasonable.

The Green Lantern

  
   
  
    
   
 

se <eeeepssen e sSssSSssssssesssss=ssSS <

    
  
   

  

  

 

has again publicised us in his column by alluding to the respect we
show his fellow classmates. I wonder if it ever entered this gentleman’s mind (if he possesses one)
that it is not respect but merely an
understanding tolerance with which
we treat backward children, general
nuisances, harmless drunks, village
halfwits and Med students.

“TI can appreciate the fact that
a man, enrolled in a professional
school, thinks that his profession is
the best—even if it is medicine, but
he needn’t try to prove it to every
one by hanging it on their teeth,
and jumping down their throats
with spurs on, every time he gets a
chance. After listening for three
years in the Forrest building to
that same egotistical cant, it gets
very monotonous and damnably
boring.”

 

I WONDER

When the Society is going to hold
a smoker.

Did the winner of Saturday’s pool
get his money?

Why does the “Firechief” listen so
intently to every Walter Winchell
program?

How good will our softball team
be this year?

Why does Al Shane want a photo
in Tubby’s uniform ?

Is he trying to impress a heart
beat or is he trying to impress a
heart beat?

Why does Happy Diamond always
give a bloodcurdling yell of “Whee”
after winning a game of Hearts?

 

And then there’s the case of the
Med student who was so wise, he
cut his wisdom teeth at ten.

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the
Council of Students on Sunday,
Noy. 3rd, at 2.30 p.m. in the For
rest Building. All budgets not
yet discussed or passed on must
be handed in to the SecretaryTreasurer not later than Friday,
November ist. Those interested
are asked to attend the meeting.

Fraternities Upheld-
(Continued from Page One)

if all students would contribute to a
fund for the purpose. In the long
run it would be much cheaper than
paying fraternity dues.

The social value of the fraternity
was stressed by speakers for the
negative. Membership itself lends
a certain prestige to a man, not only
while he is at college, but after he
has graduated. It enables him to
form valuable social relationships
and establishes life-long bonds of
contact. This, they stated, was an
essential part of a broad education.
Fraternities, according to their arguments, do not make for disloyalty
and cliques but form natural groups
according to individual interests and
tastes. The social life of a fraternity
does not demand an undue amount
of the students’ time and meets a
real need for social intercourse.

A vote of the house was taken and
the negative won the decision by a
majority of three.

 

 
  
     
         
    

The Community
Chest Will be
Seeking Your Aid

    
  
      
  
 
  

Show Your True

  

Dalhousie Spirit

Give Generously

Let Us Raise
Dalhousie’s Gift
This Year

(Space donated by Dal Gazette)

 

ee

 

   
    
 

   
  
    
    
   
 

« 4 +s a ae (= “?.
a - a V. a4 She » a 
MEDS
TRIM
RIVALS ©

A powerful Medical football team
blew the lid off the 1935 interfaculty
circuit with a bang on Saturday last
as they registered a sweeping victory over a combined CommerceEngineers aggregation. Counting
two goals and a try in the first half
and adding four additional tallies in
the final period, the men from Med
trotted from the field victors by a
25— score. The graduate players,
with Carl Stoddard, veteran Tiger
star, in their backfield, were vastly
superior to their opponents and had
them on the run all the way.

With Coach “Big Jim” MacDonald
and Jack Victor handling the whistle
the rival outfits started off and
within a few minutes Medicine had
the match well in hand as a smoothworking three-quarter line, plus the
deadly toe of Carl Stoddard chalked
up a total of ten markers. The Studley team fought hard, but was
hopelessly outclassed from the outset. The Doctors’ first marker
came on Dugan’s try, for which
Stoddard booted the goal. Immediately after, Karl Garten crossed the
line for Med and again Stoddard
made no mistake with the shot for
extra points. Commerce-Engineers
managed to stave off another score
for several minutes until Clary
Gosse scored just before the end of
the half, giving the winners a thirteen point margin.

     
   

 

The Medicals continued their onslaught during the final canto, counting on four tries, none of which
were converted into goals. Smooth
passing plays saw Stephenson score
twice and Stoddard and Gaum each
once before the game ended, bringing the winners’ margin to twentyfive. For the losers Bernie Goodman was a standout.

Medicine: Krebs, Nicholson, Irwin, Stoddard, McLellan, Gosse,
Garten, Stephenson, Wilson, Gaum,
Strong, Dugan, Magonet, Ganter.

Com-Eng.: Fraser, Hurst, Gould,
Goodman, Sutherland, Cohn, Ryan,
Ritcey, Burchell, Strong, McCormick.

Council Examine-(Continued from Page One)

Mr. Manning asked for $280.00 to
cover debating, being a slight reduction over that of last year. This provided for a total of twenty-six debates for this year, as opposed to
eight for last year. To this will be
added a trip to Upper Canada, provided that acceptable guarantees can
be obtained from selected universities. This was passed without objection.

Prof. Mercer asked that the Badminton Club be. placed under the
jurisdiction of the D.A.A.C. Some
confusion resulted when the request
was withdrawn, but the Council voted in favor of centralized control.

Efforts will be made to increase
the advertising lists of the Gazette
by means of a boycott against those
who refuse to advertise, and have
the patronage of the students. The
Cameo, Orpheus and the two hotels
have consistently refused to advertise because they felt that they
would get the business anyway.
Henceforth a list of those who refuse to co-operate will be published
in the Gazette.

Is hazing an evil? Not the way
they do it at the Universtiy of Saskatchewan, where the freshmen are
called out an “annual work day”.
They lay sidewalks, plant hedges,
erect bleachers, and even repair the
buildings.

Rather a good plan, isn’t it?

 

  

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

    
  
   

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.
21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ee
SS Stsssesess.
eo — ee

  

 

  

DAL
TRACK
MEET

At three o’clock on Wednesday
afternoon Dalhousie faculties
will vie with one another to determine the annual interfaculty
track and field championship.
University authorities have cooperated with athletic officials
in alloting a half-holiday for the
banner occasion.

 

With the noticeable increase in
student interest in sport this
year the 1935 title scramble
should provide some _ recordbreaking performances. Medicine, who barely won out over
a strong Freshman entry last
year, will be out for a repetition
of their victory, but will be met
by plenty of competition from
the other schools.

Henry Ross, interfaculty manager,
yesterday announced that entries
had been received from the various
faculties and that King’s had been
invited to participate in the meet.
The Freshmen, with a wealth of interscholastic talent in their midst,
will be the dark horse of the day
and along with a strong Med contingent headed by Nate Shandalov,
sprint ace, are favorites to capture
the trophy. When the big day rolls
around, however, some school may
spring a surprise and upset the dope.
Arts and Science, with the majority
of last year’s Frosh stars and several veteran campaigners, will bear
watching, as will the strong Law
outfit.

The discus and hammer thraws
and the mile run have been eliminated from the competitive list,
which includes the 60, 100, 220, 440,
and 880 yard events, 12 lb. shot put,
high and broad jumps, javelin
throw, and the 440 relay. This
slate of events should see some
thrilling competition and _ recordbreaking feats by the athletes, so
let’s see everybody out on track and
field day.

Let us have a train to Acadia
Saturday. The Tigers need our support.

‘Miss

   
  
   
   

Law Society
Makes History

If one asked Prof. Wilson who are
the greatest figures of history, undoubtely he would reply, Cleopatra,
Catherine the Great, Elizabeth, and
of our modern world, Agnes McPhail.

The Dalhousie Law Society recognized this historial fact. They bebelieve strongly in sex equality.
They appreciate the keen grasping
mind of the female. When the hour
to elect a manager for the Law football team, practically unanimously
Purtill, pride of the law
School, was selected.

Miss Prutill’s name was added
after several obviously inefficient
males had been chosen. The nominees
left the room. Merle won a great
victory.

When the contestants were recalled it was found Miss Purtill had left
without her usual cheery fairwell.
But the Law student is a shrewd person. Realizing this temporary
feminine reticence was effected by
her modesty in. the moment of vic

tory, all cheered heartily for the new |.

manager. It is an accepted feeling

   

Friday, October 25, 1935.

Cabs Defeated

By Wanderers

Dalhousie’s Cubs suffered their
second defeat of the season Saturday when the Wanderer’ intermediates bullied their way to a 9—3 victory, placing the Reds ahead of the
league.

To the dismay of Referee Johnson, the match took on the appearance of a free-for-all, the result of
various personal feuds all over the
field.

Tom Parker of the Reds was the.
first to score, taking advantage of a
fumble by the Dal backfield. Evan
Lloyd, also of the Reds, was next
to score with several Tigers at his.
tail.

A period of revival followed, when
Hanway of the Cubs scored, bring-ing the score to 6—8. This did not
last very long before the Cubs were
again scored upon by their heavier
and more experienced rivals, when
Tom Parker passed to Meisner, whocarried the ball over. None of the
trys were converted.

 

 

To facilitate dressing room pep
that Miss Purtill will handle her new | talk Harry Sutherland was appointed
position with dignity and despatch. assistant-manager.

 

CO_EDS:

Shoes Tinted to Match Your Gowns

We Call and Deliver
CAPITOL SHOE REPAIR

44 - 46 SACKVILLE STREET

CASINO

Just Phone B-8566

 

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“HERE COMES

COOKIE”

with
GEORGE BURNS
GRACIE ALLEN

The Nitwits of the Airway

 

Today - Saturday - Monday
First Theatre in Canada
to present

“THE CRUSADES”

Now playing in Chicago, New
York and Los Angeles at
$2.00 top.

Showing here at Regular
Prices

 

 

A COLLEGE PROFESSOR DISCOVERED

That Often It Isn’t a Student’s Brain but his Pen
that Runs Dry—eauses Failure—in Classes and Exams?

So he invented this sacless Vacumatic, and Parker engineered it to perfection—gave it

102% more Ink Capacity —made its Ink Level VISIBLE, so it suddenly can’t go empty!

 

Vs: a scientist in a famous university was amazed to find how
pens that run out of ink slow down
classes, demoralize thinking, and
bring marks that no student wants
to write home about.

His observations led to the birth of
therevolutionary Parker Vacumatic.
This miracle pen writes 12,000 words

Te

SD» TACUMATIC >
Junior. $5 Pencils, $2.50,
Senior, $10 $3.50 and $5

MADE IN CANADA

= SEAS

from a single filling—shows when it’s

 

Go and try writing two different

running low—tells when to refill! ts with its Reversible Point—solid
Any good store selling pens will Gold combined with precious Platshow you how the Parker Vacumatic inum—-skilfully fashioned to write on

eliminates 14 old-time parts, including the lever filler and rubber ink sac
found in sac-type pens.
And due to this,it has
double room forink, with
out increase in size.

But don’t think that
sacless perms containing
squirt-gun pumpsarelike
Parker’s patented Vacumatic. This new creation
contains none of these.
That’s why it’s MECHANICALLY PERFECT!

 

both sides—so beautifully made that
it cannot scratch or drag, even

pressure!

Do this and you won’t
let an old pen impede
your learning another
day. The Parker Fountain Pen Co. Limited,
Toronto, Ont.

 

Send a Post Card for Free Bottle of Parker Quink—the marvelous new quick-drying, pencleaning ink, and throw your
Sad away. Address Dept.

 

 
