    

  
 
  

HMVUULYIYGOOOUN0AOONOQQ00:0 0000000 UE

rer

 

VOL. i

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 8, 1935

 

College “Spirit’’ Returns As

 

 

UVOUUUQUQQUSQU00EUUUUVEAQG0U0OEOEUEANS ASU

See Dal
Win

Saturday

 

IUIU.OU00000ACUANSES0OO OUND AL

 

 

No. 7

 

 

 

Dal Fifteen Goes To Town!

 

Tigers In
Big Wet
Victory

b

 

 

Tornado-like, the Dal Tigers
swept all the Axemen opposition aside on a_ rain-soaked
field, and when the shouting had
died, Dal was on the long end
of a 11-0 whitewashing, and two
of Acadia’s men were nearly
through for the season.
MacSween eapitalized on Ted
ford’s bad kick and fell over the line

Beso ina scramble. Perce Sheppard made

od work of the convert. After

| _‘Tdeson, of Acadia had dribbled for

 

ees ee be at
et ye a ee
=*¢ fi

     

=)
a

Col

Shin = Sas

—_

Sc
EF

=


Pa
Paes

 

 

___ ATTEND THE

10 yeards, half time came to save

any score. Connor’s boot was in
good form and the deadly Dal dribble swept up the field, with DeWolfe
grabbing the greasy oval at the five
yard line. He raced over the line,
the convert failing.

Henry Ross swept down the field for
forty yards before being stopped,
and after a low driving kick by
Buckley , Thompson picked up a
dribble and went over to make the
final count 11-0. The convert failed.
Commander Murray refereed.

Council Holds
Meeting

The first item of business at the
meeting of the council arose out of

 

 

a letter from the Senate Gymnasium

Committee requesting that the Glee
Club take steps to enforce the nonsmoking rules on the Gym stage.
Glee Club officers present informed
the Council that they had already
acted in this matter. Also in the let
ter was a request that the Council

impose the regular $2.00 fine on
Murray Ryan for infringement of
the non-smoking rule.

The Finance Committee then gave
their report on the Glee Club bud
(Continued on Page Four)

Dal Girls In
Hockey Victory

The Dalhousie girls’ ground hockey team has done the impossible.
They defeated their old rival H. L.
C., on Monday. Several times this
year Delta Gamma has been badly
beaten by the Ladies College. The
girls decided that they had had

 

 

enough and they certainly put up

a good fight on Monday. With a
single goal, scored by Edith Blair,
the Dal girls emerged victorious
with a score of 1-0.

[Club Takes| Takes
“‘Licking”’

Dalhousie Tigers did more than
upset the Acadia Axemen last
Saturday. They wrecked a perfeetly good “Ninety-nine per cent
club” in one of the local sheets.

Only one of the five “experts”
picked the Tigers to win and that
was J. Eliot Hudson, a juvenile
probation officer and sport fan.

Four others, including two out
‘standing sport writers, bit the
proverbial dust as the Dal Tigers
wallowed their way to Acadia’s
first and most stinging defeat.

And another tough break for
them took place when Tech trimmed King’s 5-0. They were all

wrong on that. X

         
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
        
    

 

Two Dal Students
In Exchange Plan

Fourteen Canadian students have
received Exchange Scholarships this
session from the National Federation of Canadian University Students, it is ‘announced by the
secretary of the N. F. C. U.S.

They are:

Lewis J. Downing of Manitoba

Ontario Agricultural College.
Ressia Waisman of Manitoba to

Toronto (Arts)

Blanche Sparling of Manitoba to

Toronto (Arts).

Bernard Graham of Dalhousie to

Toronto (Arts)

Elwyn O. Hughes of Dalhousie to

McGill (Science)

Nicholas Hunchak of Saskatchewan
to Toronto (Arts)
Thomas R. Crawford of Alberta to

Toronto (Arts)

Douglas R. Crosby of Alberta to

Toronto (Arts)

Allan P. Fawley of B. C. to Queen’s

(Applied Science)

Thomas Irving of Toronto to U. of

Montreal (Arts)

Kenneth Roth of the U. of Western

Ontario to Alberta (Arts)

John W. Jenkins of the U. of Western Ontario to B. C. (Arts)

Helen Troop of Mt. Allison University to Toronto (Arts)

Under the Exchange Plan a student may spend one year at a
university other than his “home”
university without paying any tuition or Student Council fees. The
scheme was devised seven years ago
by the Federation, with the cooperation of the authorities of the
Canadian universities.

Exchange Scholars must agree to
return to their home universities for
the year following the scholarship
year. The following, who studied

(Continued on Page Four)

 

 

 

BE SURE TO

 

 

    

DalSpiri
Returns

To Fold

 

The Dalhousie spirit of yesterd2y was revived last week,
when about sixty of the supporters of the black-and-gold
tock the train to Wolfville to
watch the Tigers trim the Axemen, and took the provincial
towns along the route by storm.
For the first time since predepression days Dalhousie went
to town with a showing of spirit
unequalled for years.

The morning’s activities started
off from the station with ‘a bang, and
ended up at ‘tthe home of the Axemen with a wild snake walk, led by
Johnnie Morrison and his one-man
band.

Enmity between the two ancient
rivals came to a head in the afternoon when one of the Wolfville men
sneaked off with the banner which
adorned the Dal section of the
grand-stand, and a wild melee broke
out over the snatched banner. In
retaliation, the Dalhousians appeared on the field with a blue and red

(Continued on Page Four)

Council Announces

Student’s Forum

 

 

Students once more have expressed their desire to know what transpires on this campus and where
their money is spent. They realize
that the only way to find out is to
hear the evidence themselves. That’s
the reason that on Thursday, Nov.
14th at twelve noon the chemistry
theatre will be packed to the doors
for the Student’s Forum.

If there you will hear the following topics distussed:

Do we want Christmas examinations? Does the Council serve any
useful purpose? Should we vote
$350 to the hockey team
the

witnessed matches?

when in|
the past only a* handful of students |
Why |

 

shouldn’t we have cheap fortnightly |
dances in the gym sponsored by the |

Student’s Council instead of depriv
ing some students the pleasure of |

dancing because of prohibitive prices
in a luxurious down town hotel?
Does Dalhousie need a year book?
Should student societies pay for ad
 

*{ DAL BATTLES AT REDLAND FOR

RIGHT TO TACKLE ooo MEN AGAIN

Freshmen Make Big Well done team! But ‘tomorrow

Hit In Glee Club
Show At The Gym

A bouquet to the frosh for the fine
show last Friday, acclaimed all over
the campus as one of the best held
at Dal in the last four years. And
another one to Herman Halperin for
directing “Thank You Doctor,” a
play which was put on several years
ago on the same stage, but which
took on a new life under the superb acting of the freshmen.

Something new in the line of entertainment was provided by “Kicking the Gong Around,” and a lot of
new talent was displayed. Glee
Club, which in past years has been
hampered by lack of talent, although there always has been 32
willing audience, supplied by
some new-comers who give promise
of some good shows during the remainder of the season. Dalhousie
expresses the hope the precedent set
by the frosh will be continued
through the rest of the term.

Deserving of special mention are
the unseen workers who worked for
weeks to make the show a success,
they are the staghands, propmen,
and electricians. Among them are
Jack Dacey, Hen Reardon, Ray Wallace, Murray Gould, Jack Dobson,
Hudson, Connolly and Isnor who
came up from Tech to run the
switch board. Joe Connolly directed the show in his usual style

ON
FRIDAY

was

NIGHT -- 
 

A grand “pep meeting”, the

first of its kind in Dal in many
years, will be held on Friday
night at 7.30 o’clock in the gym.
Cheer leaders will be present
and all students are urged to
attend.
Plans will be formulated for an
organized Dal turnout. The
rally has the sanction of the
Student’s Council.

Active student participation in the

vertising space in their own Gaz-|cheering section is what is needed.

ette?
the auspices of the Student’s
ceil. Will you be there?

The forum will be held under | Great as the support has been, more
Coun-|must be given,

and given whole
‘heartedly. Be at the meeting.

 

PEP MEETING

there is another bridge to cross.
The black-and-gold footballers will
go to Redland Saturday for another
game and it is hoped the fine headwork, which characterized last Saturday’s game will be shown when
Dal battles the Wanderers. That
victory has put new pep into the

team and there will be a cleanup on
Saturday.

The small army of rooters which
were on the Acadia field last week
will be reinforced with an even
larger number of supporters, when
Dal goes to town at Redland. The
band will be at the game, and it is
up to the student body whether the
team gets the proper backing up,
and the support which it deserves.

Dalhousians must get out tomorrow, and cement the bond which
was tied at last Saturday’s game,
You have got to turn out tomorrow
and let your team know you are behind them. They’ll do the rest.

Dal must win this game to tie
Acadia in the standing and force
another clash.

Student’s Council

To Hold Meeting

The Council of the Students will
hold its next meeting on the Munro
Room at 2.30 p. m., on Sunday, November 17th.

 

Business to come before the meeting will include the following items:

Consideration of the desirability of a Year Book.

Suggested periodical dances
in the Gymnasium at a price
within reach of the average
student pocketbook.

Appointment of a Council
Committee to be responsible
for gate receipts from all stu
dents activities for which admission is charged.
Consideration of the Glee

Club Constitution as revised to
date.

A proposal for the publication form of the constitutions
of all student organizations.

Installing of Gazette Collec
(Continued on Page Four)

WEAR A POPPY

AT THE GAME

 

 

 

 

 

 

FRIDAY NIGHT :-:
7.30 p.m. -- GYMNASIUM

___ sea ig

| University’s

‘contested match with tempers on
each side flaring at the slightest
provocation. In the first four min
Nisha. Canadians
Win From Dal In

An Interesting Tilt

Successfully opening their debating tour of Maritime Universities,
the N. C. F. U. L. team of Gordon
Smith and John Bassett from the
Western University and Bishop’s
College scored their first triumph
over Dal. An easy presentation of
speech, a nonchalant style, coupled
with the ability to force strongly
the points in their favor, brought
victory to the visitors.

Upholding the principle of an international police force, though
claiming they wewre not proving its
practicability, the leader, Gordon
Smith, traced the efforts of peace
from those of the medieval church
to the modern efforts by treaty.

His colleague, John Bassett, standing a good foot taller than his medium sized team-mate, drew a picture of a peaceful world made under the empire of Genghis Khan and
the Empire of Rome. Both states had

 

a strong internal army, with no
outside rivalry. Ending with a pessimistic note beled by his cheery

countenance, he quoted a
verse of Thomas Hardy:

typical

“Peace upon earth,” was said. “We
sing it

And pay a million just to bury it.

After two thousand years of wars

We’ve got as far as poison gas.”

(Continued on Page Four)

Meds Win Over
Frosh Ruggers

 

 

In the fifth game of Dalhousie
Inter-faculty Rugger
League, played on Monday afternoon
at Studley, Medicine defeated Fresh
men by the score of 8—3 in a hotly

utes Donahoe of Medicine went over
the line for the first try on a throwin from Wishart. Krebs converted
from a difficult angle, bringing the
total up to 5—0.

Just before the first half finished,
Medicine scored again, Wishart grabbing a loose ball and falling over
the line. Krebs failed to convert.

In the second half Freshmen were
heeling the ball out of the scrum
better and their three-quarter line
was clicking. The only score in this
half was made by the Freshmen
when Whalley grabbed the ball forty

(Continued on Page Four)

 

 

 

(i ae

 

 

 
  
   

:

4 1869,

' “Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, NS.

“The Oldest College si in America”
EVD

 

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editors
| IRVING PINK
4148 : i B. 2442
| Managing Editor
; PHIL SARGEANT
Sosa 3 | B-7223 :
News Editor Assistants
re ef OHN TRACY LEN KITZ, BILL SUTHERLAND
Society. Editor Literary Editor Sports Editor
4 ra: PURTILL | ELISABETH BALLEM TED CREASE
Peeves Sr ae =: _ Staff Artist B. 5737
ge AR tecyte Wh C. F, BENTLEY
____ Business Manager Assistant
J. R. H. SUTHERLAND DOUGLAS CREASE
ea BL 5487 B.5737—
mete «ARMISTICE
er « ; fae (Contributed)
Be. Tndoubtedly, the Armistice which closed the Great War

of greater significance than any previous one. Not only
ri E it call a halt to the carnage and waste, but it voiced the
MS entiment of millions, “Never again’? would they be drawn into

such a conflict. Ironically enough, “armistice’’ meant what it

, has always meant, namely, “a cessation of hostilities for a short
| is ae time”. The spectre of war is continually haunting us, threatMeee. to embroil the whole world. The years that have foli Towed that armistice have been years of disillusionment. The

high hopes of “a war to end war” and “a war to make the

X pit world safe for democracy” have been dashed to the ground.
‘Sal ‘Fear, hate, distrust, jealousy and selfishness bred the Great
War: they are rampant everywhere, breeding the next war. Is
ae it any wonder that intelligent persons, students especially, are

Se not only pessimistic but cynical?
een It is hardly necessary to point out the inescapability of
the war problem. The apparent escape of indifference is comee parable to that of the ostrich burying its head in the sand for
aes. ‘the sake of protection. Oddly enough, that method of escape
Ren is often tried by humans. History has a way of showing that
war bothers us, whether we bother about it or not. In 1914,
students were faced with the war problem. How many were
_ ‘prepared to meet it? It is quite sure that most students had
never seriously faced the problem and, rightly or wrongly, their
minds were soon made up by whirlwind war propaganda.
What is the attitude of students in our universities today?
| on The nearness of war during the last few months has served
ae to shake most of us out of the lethargy and indifference of the
get: ast. But, has it made us do any “hard thinking” on the matrz ‘That attitude is of no more value here than it is in
. great social and economic problems of our day. We
own to bed rock by asking ourselves, is war justifisit Bey. economically, socially and morally?
ve reach, regarding these questions, we
3 lexing : question, “Ts war inevitable?” I say
bec Tieliove that once all those concerned believe that
is not ustifiable, they will abandon it as they have done
s y, an institution as firmly rooted and nearly as old as war.
per Armistice day, 1918, was ushered in as a day of hope and
aes rejoicing. Armistice day this year will be ushered in as a day
a aie doubt and fear. Yet, if we are sadder men, surely we are
me My wiser men. We have learned something about war which we
_-——s mever realized before—the utter insanity of it. We have
a _ earned something of its ways and habits, but, greatest of all,
-. we have learned something of its causes. Therein lies the
secret of how to abolish it! As a student to students, I have
only one thing to say to you: “Take time to think this thing
out for yourselves. Don’t be indifferent so that the first demagogue who comes along will sway you. Plan for the future!”

    
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
    
  
 
 

4
TY), =

ies aon Rise, CH. -‘K. W.)
| THE COUNCIL AND THE STUDENT
Se Pe

At the last meeting of the Council of Students a number
a of new plans were made with the hope of interesting the Dal
student in his own College affairs. The plan is the result of a
number of heated discussions both this year and last, and still

  

ewe a number of the Council members are skeptical as to its success.
Phen In brief, the scheme is as follows. Throughout the reay mainder of the year a number of student forums will be held
ri, a at which the person or persons who are interested in affairs
oa rs % -around the campus will be asked to voice his or her opinion as

i Rei to how things may be bettered, and how he feels the Council
-_ ghould act. In other words, these forums will be held in order
ae to ascertain student opinion. Anyone who has a grievance,
| ps _ question, suggestion or some praise of campus activities may
on be permitted to voice his or her views. Those who at the present
ne Se _ time have nothing to say are asked to be present to hear what
te arn others are suggesting, These forums will be held two or three
mM a m days before a Council meeting, and in this way it will enable
‘the.Council members to better understand student opinion and

This is an excellent plan. Those students who in the past

 

 

 

now have the opportunity to openly give their suggestions.

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 

 

 

 

Il be asked to express his views.
ve his ee

Ky ene he will

In this way everybody will

 

 

 

 

surely find little sympathy.

 

  

 

 

 

 

vays on
te nk. d at ee one meeting a year.

 
 

 

 

  

Jents in their activities. May you have every success.

 

 

 

to lose by trying the experiment. Keep up the good
esident of Council and members. Sunday’s session was

 

 

   

 

   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    

   
  
   
  
     
     
     
   
 

have been asking for a chance to better conditions at Dalhousie

Those students who. have always been deriding and belitting
activities at Dalhousie, and who have said that “Dal isn’t like
¢ University” will be given the chance to suggest their ideas
— for betterment. Those students who have been clamouring
hat the Student Council is spending their money wastefullv

If he passes it up and then continues back_, rhe Students’ Council also wishes that it be made public
all Council meetings are open and all students are invited

ta ot In order to be sure that your representatives are
their toes it is essential that we should all plan to

aN Gazette takes this opportunity to congratulate the
tee of the Council on their effort to revive interest among

\ lent forums may have no useful purpose, but surely there

ee easy = Tay ee “ie Fo) ore _
Se, a eae oe Mie
a" + : , ‘ 4

‘

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

PENSIV] ELY !

: tte en et decorum est pro patria

Wiha that thought, so well and so
concisely expressed two thousand
years ago, still prevail among us?
Undoubtedly it has at all material
times since. As late as 1914-18 it
not merely prevailed, but became the
very backbone and mainstay of our
outlook on life. No greater glory
was sought in those trying days
than to lay down one’s life for one’s
country in the honest. belief that by
so doing something, an indefinable
quantity which nevertheless seemed
exceedingly real, something permanently good would result. Have we
changed in less than two decades?

Time is a great healer. Men who
in 1920 would have refused to consider the possibilities of another
World War today calmly talk of
moves of strutegy, comparative
strength of armaments, the manner
in which the next war will be fought
and its methods, and they even
speculate as to its date and place of
origin.

Is this not a sad commentary on

the years that have intervened? As

day follows day,. and year follows

year, in ceaseless and persistent succession the horrors of the days that
have gone become more remote, oblivion heals the scars and leaves but
glorious wound-prints.

Like the memory of some event in

personal life now long since past,
only the joy and the happiness of the
occasion stand out; the pain, sorrow
and suffering are not even a memory. Merciful
such matters. Would, however, that
there might remain with us an actual reminder of the gruesomeness
and bestiality of war as practised by
so-called civilezed nations. Time was
when shattered men constantly reminded even the least observant that
war was not all glory, but today
many of these have passed yonder
to join their fallen comrades silently
to witness our persistent folly.

indeed is time in

Disillusionment followed the last

great conflict just as it has preceded
the previous ones and left mankind
none the wiser.
of the maladjustment of industry and
of social relationships following the
last war.
ganization caused by the sudden cessation of battle. Again men think
in terms of glory and of patriotism,
of achievement which shall last.

Sight has been lost

Forgotten is the disor
It is a snare. Nothing really per
manent can in all common-sense be
accomplished by such means.
results can be obtained only by constant striving over a long period.
The sudden burst of flame burns and
destroys the toast, the steady application of heat fits it to the palate of
the most fastidious.
peared as “A war to end war” breeds
untold conflicts in its train.
a means to the accomplishment of
anything good not merely fails in
its aim, but defeats its very object.
Vain is the vision which pictures it
otherwise.

Great

What has ap
War as

Why do we permit war-hysteria to
grip us still? Is it the devil which
we are told is ever with us? Rather,
we submit, is it the more innate desire of man to achieve some great
good not merely for himself but also
for his fellow man. Restraint is the
most difficult virtue to prastise. Activity, whatever it be, permits concrete expression of that which previously was merely felt. No searching out of ways and means can in
its reward of self-satisfaction compare with the measure of relief and
victory which cemes from some deed.
If the action in itself appears unworthy of so great an ideal or so
magnificent an emotion, that is beside the point. The only permissible
question is: Does this express in
some tangible form the extremely
important indefinable and indescribable feeling within the party concerned? If so, the act itself must
be lauded for the worth of the intion supporting it. Irony it may be,
yet the truth it remains. Something
must be the object of our outburst
and the tool most nearly at hand
and seemingly most useful is that
one of many parts, composed of
patriotism, nationalism, and reform,
which manifests itself in the semblance of such but which within is
nothing more nor less than the warspirit. Masquering under such benevolent-appearing disguises, it stirs
us up and leads us on, until finally
we succumb to its Circean charms,

|not necessarily mean war.

   

       

The Christian’s

Attitude
Towards War

 

(A sketch from “The Christian’s
Alternative to War’—Richards)

The pacifist of any sort has not
far to seek to find ample support
for the wisdom of his opinions. The
hideous destructiveness of modern
warfare is enough to make it the
greater of any two evils. It disrupts
the orderly flow of international
trade, and causes false economic positions. It is responsible for much
of the difficulty in national budgeting, and it brings a host of political
and social difficulties in its wake.
Weighing its gains with its losses
most thinking people find that the
method of warfare is immeasurably
worse than useless.

The Christian’s
war is not based solely on reasoned
materialism. He is in possession of
certain standards against which he
is bound to test the qualities of war
and make his judgment upon them.
These standards are not based necessarily on any specific directions of
Jesus. A person cannot even think
his way out by asking himself,
“What would Jesus do in this situation?” Attempts of that sort are
probably as far short of the truth as
the mind of the questioner is below
that of Jesus. The real authority is
the challenge and the demands which
Jesus’ way of living puts upon the
Christian’s actions and decisions.

The actions of a Christian in any
given situation are unpredictable and
cannot be laid down by law. In one
century his convictions lead him to
denounce and abolish slavery; in the
next perhaps to denounce war; but
for all his actions he should be able
to say with Luther, “It is neither
safe nor honest to do aught against
conscience; here stand I; I can do no
other: God help me: Amen.”

Few people uphold war for itself.
Usually it is regarded as the tragic
price of ultimate good. Men lay
down their lives for King, country or
liberty, although actually the purpos war is not to give men an opportunity to lay down their own lives,
but to make it possible for them to
take as many lives as possible. The
consistency of Jesus, however, does
not permit the divorcing of ends
from means. The Christian is under
the necesity of examining his conduct and purposes every step of the
way. He cannot approve of action
by a group which he could not approve in individuals. In approving
the aim of war and the methods applied to achieve it, he finds that he
must justify not only cotrage and
loyalty and devotion and self-sacrifice; but also “destruction and violence and meanness and immorality
and every item in the gamut of human vice; and the problem has to
be faced whether or not this can be
done in the name of Jesus Christ
and wtih the sanction of our Christian faith.”

The action of the Christian in the
face of the evidence of his test will
vary wtih his circumstances. The
heroism and devotion which he might
have put into war must obviously be
put into creative efforts to eliminate
the causes of war and to open the
eyes of public opinion to the real
nature of war. The use of force does
Force,
which in itself has no moral quality,
may, as in the case of the idea of
police service, be used for the benefit
of both the offender and the rest of
society. Part of the Christian’s task
may be the re-directing of force to
constructive ends. He must also be
willing to accept the consequences of
a change in national policy, lowered
standards of living or deflated national pride. It may be that a nation, like individuals, may be called
upon to give its life for the cause of
peace.

In the last Great War a small but
forceful group suffered scorn and
imprisonment for their beliefs; and
today “they have their reward in the
growing recognition of the truth for
which they stood: for thinking men
everywhere are coming to see that
the real enemy in war is not the
army of the foe, but the belief—
shared by friend and foe alike—that
war falls within the sanctions of civilization or even of Christianity.”

 

and unresisting murmur each to
each, “Dulee et decorum est pro
patria mori.”

protest against,

THINK

It has been suggested that, once
the British elections are over and a
Conservative government re-established, Britain will be more amenable to French proposals of compromise with Italy. The terms which
have been mentioned are exceedingly
favorable to Italy, but it is said that
the League will be persuaded to
ratify and thus avert an European
crisis and secure an apparent League
victory.

This contention, however, presupposes an utter disregard by the English government, if returned, of the
League sentiment which elected it.
Moreover, it presupposes that the
other members will be satisfied with
an empty League victory and that
they will slavishly fellow the lead of
Britain and France,

Russia will be absolutely against
such a peace, and the smaller states,
seeing protection by collective action
in the League at last, would hardly
agree to reward Mussolini for a war
of aggression.

 

In these troublous times, when one
yearns for that fairer land where
the wicked cease from troubling and
the weary are at rest. Mussolini’s assurance that he would liberate twenty or thirty thousand slaves now in
Ethiopia shone as a good deed in an
evil world. Yet the cynics we have
always with us. They would have
us believe that thirty thousand
thousand slaves in return for several
million isn’t such a bad trade after
all.

During the Great War thousands
of young men died because the
clergy persuaded them the future of |
Christianity was in issue. Today, in|
a like crisis, the clergy maintains a
discreet silence. The same facts that

 

SOMETHING TO

 

made every German a pagan and an
atheist are here by which to stamp
the Italian with a similar stigma.
Why, then, the absence of fervent
eloquence and passionate denuncia
PEACE

 

I cried in silence and amid the city’s
din:

“O Right Divine show but a portion
of Thyself—

Only reveal but once a Cause worth
dying for—

Uncap Thy scorching flame to weary
moth-like wings—

My heart beat wildly and the blood

Raced like a torrent through my
veins

With warming passion, great surmise.

But never was the light behind the
mist revealed

And no exterior Hand withhold the
heavy veil.

. Friday, November 8, 1935

       

 

ABOUT

tion? Is it because the clergy has
learned that wars are not dramatic
Armageddons between whole peoples, but business encounters between a few? Or is it because there
are greater moral issues involved in
the sale of a glass of beer than in
the wholesale slaughtering of human beings?

 

This month sanctions are to be imposed against Italy by the League of
Nations. Only those materials are
included which are exported to Italy
by League members. There are, however, many products shipped to Italy
bynon-members, chiefly the United
States. It is true that the United
States has forbidden the export of
“implements of war”, but this phrase
does not cover many materials which
are readily adaptable to war purposes. Iron, steel and copper scrap,
benzol and many chemicals, are not
“implements of war”, but they are
essential to the conduct of war.

Exports of these from the United
States have doubled and quadrupled
in the last year. The president has
the power to declare such trade illegal, but so far he has not done so.
Although he hesitates to take the
legal step that will bar American
exports to Italy, it is understood he
will attempt to turn public opinion
against companies trading with Italy
by publishing their names and the
nature and extent of their trade.

 

Upon the Canadian political scene
a Sabbath quiet has descended. On
a wave of national repudiation Mr.
Bennett departed hence, leaving this
Eden to prosperity and Mr. King.
“For lo! the winter is past, the rain
is over and gone; the flowers appear
on the earth; the time of the singing
birds is come, and the voice of the
turtle is heard in the land.” In this
modern Utopia there remains but
one insurgent, Wm. Aberhart, “the
boy who asked for more.”

And yet the Vision came—but dropping slow,

With essence slightly chill,
apart

From all the great desires of my
heart.

I could not see the veil drop slowly
back

Until one morning all the dismal
light

Fell gray upon me—awful, dreaded
light!

I saw the sacrifice and martyrdom. .

The sweaty travail by which Truth
is worked...

The pain, the fight,
agony .

a i

the bitter

Not now the rapture and the moving
calm

But shivering,
withdrew

Alone, afraid.

stunned, I finally

 

 

 

 

PARTY TIME IS HERE

 

Formal Evening

Wear - - 
To be in the social swim one must have a dinner jacket

or a suit of tails.

We are featuring a smartly tailored

Tuxedo Suit with Silk Vest at $25.00, complete.

Others at $30.00 and $35.00. Accessories to match at
the same reasonable prices.

See the new black Hamburg’s Hat for evening
wear as featured by Esquire.

SHA

MEN’S

THIRTY SPRING

NE'S
SHOP

GARDEN ROAD

 

DISCOUNT OF 10% TO

DALHOUSIE STUDENTS

 

7 oo 7
er ee

 

 
Dalhousie University
Archives

Dalhousie Gazette

Vol. 68, no. 7

November 8, 1938

Pages 3-6 missing
  
  
 
   

3
ot * a a *4 7
-) a See bea * te 7 . : iy

iJ - — a ae ian hae ee ee

a a el . i. ‘ } ;
Aa ae ot eee ae Oe
f< =< 7

  
 

: ‘The happy, carefree days of sorority rushing have come and gone.

ae. & “We don’t mean to imply that the
_ days were carefree for all involved.
Oh, no The members worked stren
f . ‘uously for the cause and that no girl
might go wrong. The result of that
? hectic week may aptly be compared
with the outcome of the election—
the majority of pledges went to
’ group A, a few to group B, and one
to group C.

“
Med
a

 

These are Budget days at Dal_housie, and if rumour be correct the
-. Council certainly can wield the axe

on those expense accounts and other
, pS appropriations. We were told by an
, ie interested party that the Council
was so firm in keeping down budgets

_ that it was impossible to budge it.

 

é We were pleased to learn from
t? seeing “Broadway Melody” that
_ snoring is now a science requiring
i the services of a full time professor.
We never realized there were quite
80 many varieties of the normal
ore, but then, even if you have
aaken English 2 there are stilll a
c. few things undiscussed. And talking about snoring, we have always
been perplexed by a problem thus
_ presented. Would you say that
snoring was sheet music? Yes,
Evatt, we admit that the last query
oh of ancient vintage, but surely you
ey heard that there is nothing
ew under the sun.

P

 

a YOU’

   

  

are always the same. Why can’t
people give the real reason. Instead
of saying, “Listen, Oswald, I won’t
be able to go to the Casino with you
tonight, ’cause I’ve gotta stay in and
write a theme.” Why don’t they be
truthful and say, “Look here, Oswald, I can’t go with you tonight.
I just had a bid to a Phi Kappa Pi
party.” It would be different!

 

We award the prize for frankness
to that person whose letter appeared
in the Gazette last week under the
nom de plume of “Ex-Shirreff
Haller”. Incidentally, now that the
truth has been revealed by one who
knows, we realize that those front
page interviews were but the expressions of subdued souls.

 

We were about to remark that
these were rather uninteresting days
for the local press. You must admit
that the King of Kings, Mr. Mussolini and the people at Dalhousie
have said or done very little to merit
the front page. However, the lads
at King’s have given the newspapermen something to spread over the
pages. We don’t pretend to know
the real truth about the situation;
we don’t believe everything that we
read in the papers—the news story
is often exaggerated and the official

‘report is too much like a weather

report, social item or copy of a de
Yes, even the/livered address to call for more than
xcuses given for breaking a date|a cursory glance.

 

 

VE HAD A

MEAL WHICH DOESN’T

Soure “FILL

e

a

za

Re

NE a eS ad 7
a aa Pe. Ee wee 4 Ih
< 5 i , t

      

 

' 2
ae

os

THE BILL”...

     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

a

 

MIRTH CONTROL

It’s a wise anecdote that knows its
father. With this in view, T. Y. M.
has established agents to seek out
these untimely outbursts that result
from these incidents. Every available spot is covered and a clamp will
be put on any expression of merriment. Agent C. M. 4 dampened all
virtuous spirits when he offered that
a certain 4th year Med used marriage as a ruse to keep May away
and allowed him to ride around in a
taxi with the cutest blonde.

 

X4 reports that Dr. Woodbury
caused many mournful regrets when
he made the fact known that he remembers when the roll call consisted
of at least a half page of Mac’s—
instead of Bergs.

 

The chief congratulated P. M. 2
for preventing an outbreak when the
students learned that Hal Davis and
Mike Cassell had gone moose hunting with two women—and a Mountie
for protection. They wanted a shot
at a moose, but all they got was
half-shot. Whereupon Mike cupped
his hands and called ‘“Pee-dee-peepee-moosee”. Something moved, the
trusty rifle roared—and
rabbit bit the dust.

another

E. 9 is pleasantly in dejection; he
uncovered the Fog Club President,
Alexia Horowitz (as confused as his
name), who prides himself in comling to a 10 o’clock class at 10.58.
Fogey Al is changing from house
maids to nurses because all they can
say is “Uhm-Ah”. Vice-Pres. Cy
Miller, whose pet foggy act is
speak of a person for fifteen minutes
and ask how he is five minutes
later; and Secretary Leo “Da”
Green, who assumes the attitude
about this time of year.

 

I. M. 2 needed assistance to hush
up the snickers made by the anatomists Monday afternoon when Doc
Noble displayed the cutest hole in
his sock.

 

Rather than stimulate a laugh
around the school, Ronald Baird borrowed Jerry’s coat, tried on Marce’s
gloves and disappeared until midnight, when he was seen trying to
sneak across Spring Garden Road.
His collar was high and his face
was hidden behind two note books.
Rain or shine, it’s some place near
Quinpool or Robie—and it is must
be interesting if he takes notes.

 

In a vein of curiosity, when is
Dr. Connel really going to going to
take our Dr. Smith away from us?
The few couples that were at the
Med dance quietly sobbed when Dr.
Bean couldn’t get his victuals unless
George Murphy O.K’ed it. The only
outburst was made by Stentaford,
who with sizzling blood, feet reeling
and his vile tongue hurling invectives at T. Y. M., proudly showed
his Newfoundland physique that
isn’t,

 

 

Jollity has fallen so low that Dr. |
Dreyer has asked for a picture of the |
class. All those found smiling will
be plucked, if only, they will come
to class. Even Tobias is sobbing |
(with joy) because the Acadia trip |
was such a huge success.

 

If your spirits aren’t dulled by
now they should be when you hear
that there are only two ways by
which a general practitioner comes
into a fortune: Ist, inherit it; 2nd,
marry it; and those that marry deserve every cent they get.

 

_ TAKE YOUR
EDICINE

|

ADULT EDUCATION

Observers in Halifax are noting
with keen interest the new movement
in Adult Education being initiated
into our midst under the educational
committee of the Trades and Labor
Council. Educators in Halifax have
long felt the need of such a movement here, and at last it is being
introduced,

Dalhousie, in its position of the
leading educational institution of the
city should feel itself irrevocably
bound up with such a scheme, and
already some of our professors have
made known their readiness to assist.

In a civilization such as ours which
is constantly changing, it is useless
to suppose that to educate the children of today for a civilization which
has already passed does fit them for
proper social conduct in their life
after they leave school. Yet this is
what our educational systems have
been doing. Traditionally we have
relied upon older methods of education as constituting our preparation
for the future, but this idea evolved
in the old agrarian order in which
life was relatively static. Thus we
have been educating the past generation of children in terms of our past
experience, something which can
never safely prepare for the future.
And so, one of the reasons for initiating and maintaining Adult Educa
Good Business ..
Eatonia Suits, with

correct fit and fine fabrics,
go a long way to help make
your first impressions faGood Business ...because Eatonia
Suits are soundly tailored
so that they may retain
their fit and appearance
throughout their long and
Good
because
Eatonia Suits come in a
sizes

vourable ones.

useful lifetime.
Business...

wide range of
types to fit most

man; _ short,

to-fit.

Good Business ..

tra pair of trousers.

. because

;
|

shorttall, regular, stout or hardGood Business...
because Eatonia Suits offer you a large and varied
selection of the season’s
rich woollens in handsome
patterns and _ colourings.
. because
Eatonia Suits have an ex
“TEA

tion lies in the fact that the adults
of the present time must make radical changes in their individual ways
of living because they have been
educated for a type of civilization
which no longer exists.

In regard to the educational system itself we do not mean to say
that the slower process of social adjustments through proper education

of the child is to be diminished. No
doubt there is a certain “hard core”
of knowledge which remains fairly
well fixed, but even in this connection, it is of the greatest importance
that we realize that Adults determine what the programs of education for the young are to be. An
adult population left to think of education in terms of conditions which
no longer exist not only will fail to
initiate and maintain the proper educational programs for the young, but
will definitely oppose such programs.

Therefore, we see a double purpose
for Adult Education, first, the continuous adjustments of the adults
themselves to new conditions in a
rapidly changing world; and second,
the creation of attitudes and concepts in Adults that will insure for
the young a type of education in
tune with changed and changing
conditions.

Se tfed (Tes

COOD VALVE... COOD rae)

their

in
every
stout,

Each

TIMES

 

 

Bike

 

Page Seven

 
      
    
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.
21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

 

BIRKS.-
Dance favors that are
intriguing — cherished
long after the occasion
these may be had at
Birks.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 
 
     
  
   
    
  

©

  

Jerry Naugler and
his Band will provide the best music.

NOVA

SCOTIAN HOTEL

COUPLE $3.00

Everyone is going to the biggest Dance of the year

THE LAW BA

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22nd

9.00 p. m.

a ae de Sree LS :

©

The number of tickets
is limited, so be sure

to get yours early.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

ee Oy

- s oe

bf AEP

 

CiG

PINE HILL
PEN PRICKS

 

Mainly owing to the efforts of the
“Doctor” the old building was able
to hold the annex to a scoreless draw
in the annual Thanksgiving tussle
held last week. Roy Webster, who

- is specializing in medicine, made

good use of his anatomical learning,
and showed a particularly brilliant
tackling form, this time however,
working on the male species. Except for a few overcoated side-liners
practically the whole residence turned out to participate in the mudslinging—the only chance that some
poor souls can get to do it.

 

The other day we witnessed a
truly pathetic sight. The “Doctor”,
who seems, by the way to be receiving his fair share this week, was
walking down South Park Street
when he met a two-year old crying
as if his heart was broken. After
assuming his most benign attitude
and wiping away the little fellow’s
tears, the Doctor also assumed the
responsibility of seeing that he got
home safely and proceeded to lead
him back down the street. He did
not go very far, however, before he
found himself within reach of the
arm of the law, in the form of a
particularly stalwart specimen of the
R. C. M. Police. After a rather involved explanation, however, the
Doctor was allowed to go with a
word of warning. We might add a
word ourselves, mentioning perhaps
Don Quixote, did we not feel that
this has already gone far enough.

 

At the banquet for the new men
held last week, almost every one en
,. All because of

Quality and Mildness

urret

SAVE THE VALUABLE POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

oil dats ALP Akiak ded 6 dnt ae A eee
= * -s +

  

  

tobaccos,

   

Turret’s finer flavour,
which smokers praise so
highly, is due to the
better tobaccos that go
into these cigarettes.
When others like them
so much, it's reasonable
to suggest that you, too,
will like Turrets better!

 
   
     
   
   
   
     
  

     

ARETTES

      
  

joyed themselves with perhaps the
exception of he who indignantly
denied that he wanted to lead in the
singing of “Three Blind Mice”, in
spite of the assertion of Fraser
Nicholson that he did. His disappointment was no doubt accentuated
by the fact that Murray MacDonald
only knew two of them. The banquet was well up to form and the
speeches contributed perhaps even
more so. Both Dr. MacKinnon and
our Dean both contributed in no
mean way to the merriment. Mrs.
Marsters told of some of her experiences during the summer on the
Pacific coast and after some verbal
bouquets (and Brickbats) had been
scattered abroad, Andy MacKenzie
presented to her on behalf of the
students under her care, an example
of the real thing.

Upper Canadians-
(Continued from Page One)

Smith MclIvor of Dal pointed out
the mere stopping of war by force,
besides being a contradiction in itself, did nothing to efface the basic
issues of war. He gently admitted
his “broad-minded” attitude towards
Japan’s Manchuko episode. National
rivalry he felt was a terrfic force to
combat.

Showing how the principle of common force as used by the Greek city
states went astray, Irving Selikoff
spoke effectively, pointing out how
the major powewr seized general
control of all common military ventures. He explained the absurdity
of hoping to get Soviet troops working for capitalistic ambitions, which
he felt to be the cause of war.

Harvey Webber after the debate
gave a needed touch of humor from
the floor. Babbitt Parlee also expounded his view of the matter.

 

 

CO_EDS:

Shoes Tinted to Match Your Gowns

7 We Call and Deliver
CAPITOL SHOE REPAIR

44 - 46 SACKVILLE STREET

Just Phone B-8566

 

  

CASINO

Starting Saturday
November 9th.

ZANE GREY’S
WANDERER
of the
WASTELAND
a PR
FOOTBALL
TEAMWORK
First Edition
OUR GANG FOLLIES
% OF 1936

%

ee
oye

ee =

  

"
.
w

cod

 
      
  
 

   
   
       
   
   
   
   

TODAY - SAT. 
JOAN
CRAWFORD

MON.

“T Live My Life”

? with

BRIAN AHERNE
Today and Monday:

Shows at 2.00 - 3.30 - 9.00.
Saturday, Continuous.

\ 2pm as

eed ate! “hie oy ei
my: he! nS aa

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPINSTER

GAZETTE’S
SHORT STORY

 

Bertha Robertson came to church
that evening for something to do.
It had been raining all day, and she
had grown weary of being in, weary
too of her brother and his wife. She
did not consider them an interestingly-married pair, but only two ordinary people living together more
by chance than anything else; yet
she was faintly envious of them. For
she knew that if one of them were
ill or in trouble, the nebulous marriage bonds would be strengthened
and they would suddenly be one person, disturbingly apart from her and
the rest of the world.

She came sullenly into the church,
a brown rain coat pulled close
around her. Her figure was good
and she carried herself erectly. But
her skin was sallow and seemed a
mass of tiny wrinkles; there was a
frown mark between her eyebrows
and her eyes blinked continuously.
But her smile was something to
watch for, and her hair was blueblack and glossy. She was the kind
of woman who would have been
pretty if there had been no mirrors.
But she was incessantly on the outlook for her shortcomings and the
sallowness of her skin made her ill
at ease. She was forty-one.

The tranquility of the church service did not soothe her; she moved
restlessly in her seat and the frown
deepened between her eyebrows.
She stared at the minister, hyponized by his voice and his sure gestures. “I could be in love with him,
if I would let myself go.” And she
felt some pride in the fact that she
had kept herself immoculate from
that one temptation. At the same
time, however, she took a pseudodelight in the thought of the days
and nights of torture if she were—
for he was married and contentely
so. She imagined the clenched hands
and the sleepless gazing into the
night, not realizing that love is not
a pose nor an attitude of mind—but
a state of being into which she could
not enter. For she had irreparably
damaged her emotional life in her
youth. Never having gone around
with men or known their companionship, she had seized upon
stray faces seen on the street or on
tram-cars and upon movie stars, and
had thought and dreamed about
them continuously for weeks. She
saw herself and them in various romantic situations where she was
always aloof and cold causing them
inconceivable heartbreak—with the
result that now she was emotionally
bankrupt without having experienced an honest emotion in her life.
She pulled her eyes from the minister’s face and looked at the young
girls in the choir. A certain penetrating gaze in one of the girl’s eyes
made her lower her own while a
flush pinked her cheeks. “I believe
she knows what I’m thinking about,
she always does. God, I wish I
were like her. She wouldn’t mess
up her life the way I’ve done mine—
she has the right point of view.” For
Bertha was slowly comprehending
was was wrong with her and her
mind shrank from the picture of so
rotten a decay, ‘Perhaps I'll die
before I see it.”

The service was over and the people left the church, talking and
shaking hand. Bertha found herself trembling as she spoke to the
minister—“Good evening.” “Good
evening, Miss Robertson, I haven’t
seen you for a long time—where
have you been?” and his eyes became warmer as he said, “Do come
to church more often.”

Bertha went out into the night
air,—her heart was on fire, “He
loves me. I know he does. He
wouldn’t have said that if he didn’t.”

Meds Win-
(Continued from Page One)

yards out and planted it directly behind Medicine’s posts. Phillips missed the convert.

A protest has been entered by the
Freshmen on the score that the
Medicos failed to wear the sweaters
allotted to them.

The standing of the five faculties
entered in the league to date are as
follows: Medicine 6. Commerce-Engineers 2, Freshmen 2, Arts and Science 0, Law 0.

 

SSE, SS rrr ee eenantniaie ——— a

meal

 

ae FE a ee ee et

A

SCANDAL (|Council Holds-
 

Who would ever have thought that
Bob MacLellan (of Moncton, Saint
John, and Montreal) would have
come to playing honeymoon bridge
on Sunday afternoon in an alcove?

 

Why doesn’t Janet Horne do her
sleeping in the Hall? What s the
answer, Doug?

a

Where did Don S. get the spirit
that inspired him to try to date a
certain freshette whom he didn’t
know? Anyway, “Seed”, she is waiting for another call.

 

We see that a former member of
the Hall, who spends frequent weekends in the city, has unexpectedly
joined the White Cross Brigade.
Was there a fire sale, boys?

 

With the arrival of the Upper
Canadian debating team, the girls
for the second time this year, were
thrilled by the sight of men in the
dining room. But was it really fair
to hide them in the reception room
afterwards? We notice Helen didn’t
have to be coaxed to play the piano.
The manly features of President
Manning were much admired.

 

Two Students-
(Continued from Page One)

under Exchange Scholarships in

1934-35, are now vack at their own

universities :—

Edith Blair back at Dalhousie from
Queen’s.

Thelma Hermanson back at Manitoba from Toronto.

Leslie Allen back at B. C. from
Toronto.

Leonard W. Harper back at Alberta
from Toronto.

Evelyn Buxton back at Alberta
from Toronto,

Vivian Hood back at Alberta from
British Columbia.

Winston D. Porter back at Alberta
from McGill.

(Continued from Page One)

get which was passed at the gross
sum of $695. Several budgets followed. Delta Gamma were granted
$90 for meetings and debates, but
were refused the financial support
of the Council on the Delta Gamma Dance. Girl’s Basketball budget was passed at $197, practically
the same as last year.

Ping-pong was granted $18, Badmington $255, and Swimming $5.00.
Following these budgets, a committee consisting of Gordon Thompson,
John Fisher, and George Murphy
was appointed to investigate the
question of the payment of University employees. It was pointed out
that the Glee Club, for example,
have to pay the janitors extra for
admission to the Gym stage on Sundays, and also have to pay to have
the Gym heated on such occasions.
This committee was requested to
bring in a report to the next meeting of the Council.

Dal Spirit-
(Continued from Page One)

dummy, which caused another
struggle.

At the end of the combat the only
remaining piece of the dummy, big
enough to be used as a souvenir was
waving from the  black-and-gold
cheering section. The emblem will
repose in the custody of the Dal
Glee Club henceforth.

On returning to Halifax after the
11-0 victory, the Dalhousie men held
another snake-walk up Barrington
street, and displayed to the astounded populace the spirit that can be
shown by Dalhousie.

The only wet blanket on the whole
day was the fact that not enough
Dalhousians would agree to take the
trip on the special train. One hun
dred and seventy-five were needed

to make upa special trip but less |
offered to go.|
Many Dalhousians both on and off |
the campus hope, however, the spirit

than seventy-five

which was revived on Saturday will
continue.

 

—————————

Friday, November 8, 1935

YS

 

BUCKINGHAM

20 for 20¢- 25 fr 25¢- 50 for50¢

 

 

Council to Hold-
(Continued from Page One)

tion Boxes in University buildings.

Satisfactory methods of appointing cheerleaders.

Proposal for holding Student
Forums at regular intervals.

Matter of payment for Gaz
ette advertising by Studext
Societies. \
All students interested in

these topics are invited to attend.

 

UNRESTRICTED CHOICE
OF BRITISH WOOLLENS

24

TAILORED TO
YOUR MEASURE

 

Tip Top Overcoats give warmth, comfort, without undue
weight—ST YLE!—expert tailoring to YOUR individual
measure and whim—choice of hundreds of patterns
from British mills. Have all these features in your

tailored overcoat!

At The One Standard Price

442 Barrington Street
Halifax, N. S.

 

 
