    
   

      

i neat

P f 1 J

 

 

 

~—YMUUNUNAUNNUCRUUR ALANA

 

PEA

?

 

DAL’ STUDENTS

 

 

The purpose of the peace questionnaire is to discover what are the
opinions of Dalhousie students regarding the prevention of war by
international co-operation through
the League of Nations. As a Dalhousie student, what do you think of
the League of Nations? Do you
prefer the pre-war or the post-war
methods of diplomacy? Do you believe that co-operation among the
nations is to be desired? Do you

consider that it is possible under existing conditions ?

Should Canada
support the League to the limit? Are

_you personally willing to fight to up- hold international law and order?

Consdier these questions carefully
before you mark your questionnaire.

Do you believe that Canada should
help other nations to curb an aggressor? If every country were to
send a part of its regular forces
against such a nation aggression
would soon cease. Not every nation is willing to do this. An aggressor when breaking its covenants
assumes that so few countries will
send punitive expeditions or blockading squadrons that it can disregard
international law with impunity.
Canada announce to the world that
she is willing to bear her share in
international police action? What is
your opinion? Should Canada be
willing to send units of her permanent forces hither and yon to help to
keep the peace of the world? It is
unlikely that it ever would be necessary for all of Canada to be in arms
in order to carry out her share of the
police work since the combined regular farces of all the League members
would be overwhelming. It does not
follow necessarily that because an individual is willing to have regular
soldiers sent to fight he himself
should be prepared to fight. Regulars
know when they enlist that they may
be called upon to engage in active
service; it is their duty to do what
the people through their governments command. Most law abiding
citizens are not only in favour of,
but demand a city police force,
though few are desirous to become

(Continued on Page Four)

Dal’s Jinx Is
Active Again

Dal’s jinx of injuries is already
making itself felt in the ranks of the
senior football crew, indications following Saturday’s game show.

Doug Crease, picking half, is out
for the season because of a broken
nose, while Hinchey has shoulder
ligaments that are far from soothed.
Worrell, full back, has his arm in a
sling. It is hoped that the lads will
break the jinx this year. Last year
some fifteen of the lads made up the
injury list.

MUST DECIDE

 
   
    
  

 

NOMINATIONS

Nominations for the position of
President of the Glee Club will
be received by the President of
be received by the President of the
Students Council, or the Executive of the Glee Club, up to, and
including, Monday, October 14th.

Senator

 

  

 

Against:
Fighting:

 

Senator Borah, well-known
peace exponent of the United
States, had the following to say
regarding a program of resistance against participation in
war, his speech being delivered
over the radio, as follows:

I am pleased to have a small part
in this program. Some will think by
reason of the troubled outlook that
neither speech nor song can at this
time serv the cause of peace. But,
however, confused and disturbed all
may see, those who oppose war will
seek to carry on.

We cannot wipe out national lines
nor afface national aspirations and
we should not wish to do so. We
cannot wholly submerge the national
spirit or set boundaries to a people’s
growth, and should not wish to do so.
We cannot reduce all nations or races
to a common level, or even bring
them to a common understanding,
and it were a useless waste of time
and energy to undertake to do so.
But in the common language of
music, and in an appeal to reason, we
can speak to the better nature of all
peoples of whatever name or race
and thus help to direct the course of
governments along more peaceful
lines. It must never be thought that
only those who write treaties and
conduct negotiations in great emorgencies are the sole servants of
peace, All such efforts are fruitless
without the support of the people to
whose hearts and minds those upon
this program would deliver a message,

If we look alone to the attitude
and action of governments, the
friends of peace might well despair.
But if we consult the wishes and
deep desires of the people, there is
just ground for hope. We ean not
speak with certainty of other peoples, but knowing the sentiments of
our own, we have a right to believe
that the desire for peace was never

(Continued on Page Four)

meets

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 10, 1935

adia Axemen Win First Gam

 

 

(See Page Four)

TVEULITUUUUULGQQO000O0ULOSUCEO LUAU ESN STL

 

Sodales Mass

Meeting
Noon To-Day

 

UUIETEUNUOUUUQAQNNSASOUEOUUUUANSASOSL TALL NT

 

 

No. 3

 

CE or

 

It’s Up fo You

Peace And War Questionnaire

Do you consider that if a nation insists on attacking
another the other nations should combine to compel

it to stop by:
(a)
(b)

Do you believe that your country should support the

Economic and non-military measures ?...............

If necessary, military Me€ASUTES?.....0.. ee

 

League of Nations by military measures in order to

SUPPFESS AN AGLLESSOL MACON? .....sccccccccssscccccsccscsscescceccsrsesensensecssenees

Would you personally be prepared to bear arms it

URE ROME oo os ol cal

tionnaire.

doubt please leave a blank.

lobbyof the Gym.
4.

 

Each question requires the answer “Yes” or “No”.

For Law, Medicine, and Dentistry

PERE E EERE EERE ES EEE EERE EE EEEEEEO EERE EEE EEE EEEEETEEEE REET EEE SE ERE RES

Every Dalhousie student is asked to answer the Ques
If in

For Studley students—Questionnaires will be available
from 9.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m., Friday, October 11, in the west

Questionnaires will be

 

distributed at Friday morning classes.

In answering No. 3, it is understood that women students
are expressing their opinion on the decision which they
think men students should take.

 

SODALES TO HOLD
MASS MEETING TODAY

 

Sodales Debating Society will
hold a mass meeting in the Chem
Theatre
speakers will discuss the coming

today at noon, when

peace plebiscite, it was announced
at the first Sodales meeting.

 

The return of the Dal spirit which

has been so manifestly present at

the University this term was again
exemplified ins the large number of
students who turned out for the debating trials on Tuesday evening,
October 8th, in the Munro Room.

In fact the turnout was so large

that the judges Messrs. Bennet, Curtis, and Johnstone found it necessary
to pick out six and these six will
battle it out again next Tuesday
evening. The winning duo will represent Dalhousie in a team which
Bishop’s, Western Ontario
University here November 4th.

The six chosen were Innes MacLeod, B. Parlee, M. A. MacPherson,
Harvey Webber, Smith Maclvor, and
Irving Selikoff,

Because of the number candidates
it was found necessary to limit discussion, which by the way was in the
nature of short talks on the subject:

Do you favor the introduction of
a Third Party in Canada’s Political
Life,” to three minutes to each participant.

The President of Sodales, Charles
Manning, was in the chair, and Leo
Landreville, acting secretary.

 

 

Gazette Hands
Out “Orchids”

In Walter Winchellian style, the

 

Dalhousie news staff passes out this

week the following “orchids”:

 

Orchids to John Morrison and his
crew of brass banders, who did much
at the Dal-Acadia game to encourage
that spirit of support about which
the Gazette has been speaking.

Orchids to Evelyn Embree, Lou
Morrison, Nancy Lawson, Bob Bagg,
Jack Dobson and Len Kitz for their
cheer leading.

Orchids to those who yelled at the
top of their voices.

Orchids to Doug Crease, who
played with a broken nose and who
will be out all season.

 

Congratulations
Dalhousians

 

The Gazette has a feeling of pleasure today in congratulating its readers on their splendid turnout at the
campus for the Acadia-Dal game
Saturday.

The campaign which was commenced in the Gazette at the opening of the college term is bearing
fruit. Our only hope is that the support, the attendance, the band, the
cheer leaders and the yells will go on
and on.

oOo —>:. nan

WAR

 

DAL COUNCIL
HOLD MEETING

 

 

ELECTIONS

A representative of Class °38
will be elected to the Students
Council on October 17th, 1935.

An election for the Presidency
of The Glee Club will be held on
Friday, October 17th, 1935.

 

 

Big Vote
At Polls
Forecast

(By the News Editor)

 

Dalhousians face tomorrow one
of the greatest problems ever
placed before them, when they will
vote whether or not they would
participate in any war which Canada may enter or be dragged into.
The campus has been alive with
comment, while all over the city
many are awaiting the outcome of
the poll.

Many Dalhousians have expressed
the opinion that, despite the
that they do not want to go to war,
they would go to war in support of
the cause for several and varied

reasons, some of which will be ex-|

pounded. The question is definitely
not whether Dalhousians want to go

to war, but rather, WOULD they go

to war?

Naturally, there is the first argument that whether they want to go
to war or not, they will go if the
Canada Militia Act is invoked and
conscription put into force. All the
talking will be then of no avail.

There are those, also, who will
vote that they will not go to war
who will be in the vanguard of those
leaving these native shores, since
they will be susceptible to what is
termed “hysteria”,

There are those, too, for whom
the statement of the Canadian
League Against War and Fascism,
that there must be no sentimental
ties to force them, will be but an
empty bauble and who will resent
the statement that there are no sentimental ties. There are those whose
brothers, sisters, fathers, and even
mothers gave their lives in the last
great conflict, who, bound by a sense
of honor and “sentimentalism”, not
to mention the tie-up in the fact
that we are mostly British, living in
a “British” country, will be ready
for any fray.

Far from last, and also far from
least, there are those to whom loy
fact |

 

What wiii be the position of Dal| housie students in the event of Can_ada following Great Britain into an
Kuropean conflict? Will we refuse
'to fight, or merely go on record as
in favor of maintaining Canada’s
neutrality? Should Dalhousie come
out as the first College in favor of
such a scheme?

Eric Mercer and Hal Wright pe'titioned the Council for permission
to -distiibuve a questivanaire asking
‘for student opinion, and the Council
‘questioned both the propriety and
utility of such a scheme. Hay Taylor felt that a questionnaire would
not be as effective as publicity in
the Gazette, while Mr. Manning
questioned the propriety of asking
the students to commit themselves
to an illegal course, and suggested
the question be whether or not we
are in favor of Canada maintaining
neutrality.

| The resolution in its final form
was: That a questionnaire be dis| tributed asking for student opinion,
but the results not be published as
indicative of student opinion without
permission of the Council.

 

COUNCIL ABOLISHED.

Mr. Taylor read a letter from the
Senate stating that the Council of
| Nine had been abolished. Thus there
passes into the discard one of the
\cherished possessions of the students: the right of appeal from the
decision of the Senate to a body
composed of three members of the
Senate, three members of the Alumni
and three students elected by the
Students’ Council.

FOOTBALL BUDGET.

The football budget for the coming
year was presented by the President
of the D.A.A.C. and the football
manager of the team, Mr. MacLellan. The estimates revealed a drop
of nearly $300.00 over last year, but
the probable cost of football this
year will be higher than the estimate. Included in the estimates
was a request for a trip to Caledonia during Thanksgiving week-end,
The guarantee offered was $250.000,
with 50% of the gate over $250.00
up to $400.00. The cost of the trip
will be approximately $330.00. A
game may be played with St. F. X.
on the way back. This was sanctioned by the Council.

 

BYE-ELECTIONS.

The date for election to the Council of a representative from Class ’88
was set for October 17th, nominations to be in not later than October
14th. This election is necessitated
by the resignation of Mr. MacLellan.

Election of a president of the

alty to the British Crown, inherent |Glee Club was set for the same day,

(Continued on Page Four)

(Continued on Page Four)

 

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   

c “1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”
_ EDITORIAL STAFF

te aes IRVING PINK
| | B. 2442
= News Editor
rs PHIL SARGEANT
H-298 J 3 a
Literary Editor ports Editor
ELIZABETH BALLAM TED CREASE
oat ENTLEY ‘tae
C. F.
; Assistant
DOUGLAS CREASE
B. 5737

LET’S KEEP CANADA OUT

The present European crisis has once again brought “War”
into headlines of every newspaper on the Continent. As the
Italian armies advance into Ethiopia and as the great Powers
of the world look on in envy, wondering whether or not the
League sanctions should be applied, a great problem faces
oe Canada and the people. The problem, in short, is this: If
| «Great Britain should declare war against Italy, or if the League
as. a whole declares that the remainder of its members must
apply the most severe sanction, i.e., War, will Canada as a

signatory of the League Covenant be forced to enter this useless struggle? ~
The real question to be answered is whether or not the
Canadian people want war. To ask a person simply, “Do you
hie want to fight?” would of course only be soliciting a negative
= reply. And then if we went further and asked him whether
| —__— ihe wanted to fight a fellow man, a person against whom he
-_ eould find no single grievance, other than the fact that his
ie government sent him to shoot anyone with a foreign face, and
-——s- you knew that if you didn’t shoot him first he would shoot you,
a we would be no further ahead, and our answer would surely be
| the same.
ee Now, if we put the question thus, “Would you like to go
to the front armed to the teeth with the best of guns and am| munition so that you could make the munitions makers wealthy
|} by shooting whichever fellow pops his head above the trenches
| ——s on the opposite side of you? (And be sure to use as much am- munition as possible, and be sure to let the battle last as long
as possible, for our fair friends who sit behind mahogany
} ___ tables “upholding the fair name of our country’ must make
/ —s enough to keep them until they can find something to start
/ ~—s another war about’’), we would be laughed at and the reply
ean be realized at once.
oe The above questions might seem silly and nonsensical, yet
when we people of Canada are asked to join into some “silly
____ little” foreign war many of us reply in the affirmative. We are

-__ earried away by the headlines in the daily newspapers to the

mour of b . | re

some lean-faced person who stands to make a million

bee os world might be made “safe for Democracy”. The
ee ae Democracy part of it, that was forgotten as soon as the men

°
f

 
    
 
     
  
 
 
  
  

  

    
    
    
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     

     
 

+ effect: that enemy armies are killing off thousands of peaceful
people; we are carried away by the glitter of brass buttons; by
am rass bands; by the finely phrased speeches
if he ean drive a few thousand of his sheep to war.
Be cole yi rk she last Great War Canada was asked to send her men
"> sso that the
net toa ‘men were sent. Those same men were killed. And as for the
| ~—s reached the foreign shore, and we’ve heard no more of it since.
‘This coming war will be fought to uphold the sanctity of the
-~—-«‘League of Nations. Canada may once again be asked to send
her sons. Is she going to profit by her experiences of the past,
or are we going to let ourselves be carried away by fine sounding speeches that in reality mean nothing?
That depends on you. Tomorrow you will be given your
chance to put your answer on a ballot that will in effect be, if
Great Britain allows herself to become involved in another
foreign war, are we Canadians going to do the same? The
Gazette’s answer is that you will look at the matter as intellectual and intelligent people. From amongst you are coming
Canada’s future leaders. What would your answer be then?
Consider carefully, for in your answer lies our fate.

THE BOOK CLUB

A constant source of pleasure, instruction, and learning
lies within the grasp of every student who attends the
university. The Dalhousie Book Club was instituted three
years ago to fill a very pressing need, the supplementation of
the voluminous McDonald Library. This small but very
; popular organization gave every member all that could be
en asked for in the form of modern literature of every description,
Ew The class of books may be best described by saying that the
re selections of the Book of the Month Club are given much
ees prominence.

e ‘The fee has been set at the nominal figure of one dollar a
oo year, and it is safe to say that it will prove the best pecuniary
Saks investment made in Dalhousie.
ee Reading is a field that is sadly neglected in this University
tm at least. We say sadly because that is one interest that should
rw be not only fostered but greatly encouraged. The few classes
_-_-you take at Studley will not make you an educated person;
_ they merely give the foundation. From then on it up to one’s
_-—-—s«geif, and there is no better way of carrying on your education
_ than by reading. And there is no better way of doing this
_ while at the University than by reading the modern literature
Ve ~ which may be secured at the Book Club, and by reading the old
_ ¢lahsics with which the Studley Library abounds.

 

eet FRATERNITIES AND CO-OPERATION
eae In many colleges all over the United States and Canada
_____ fraternities have been said to be the cause of cliques on the

oll _ campus, and in this way hindering any possible complete colFoe lege co-operation. Fortunately at Dalhousie this has never
been the case, and fraternities have not tampered with college
oo activities to any great extent. In fact if there was any way
rs in which they could aid any college society they were only too
glad to do so.
io ___ Last Saturday, however, saw a different story. Tea dances
_ of various fraternities coincided with the tea dance given in

cata was split. No doubt these conflicts were unavoidable, but they
~~ did not aid the

to Dalhousie.
é - = = \

honour of the visiting football team, and in this way the crowd/

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

THE

OBSERVATORY

(By Observer)

 

Perhaps you haven’t heard of the
current joke about the poor old
Scotchman who was so badly treated
In Italy. It seems that in a fit of
exuberant patriotism he was standing on a street corner “I loves a
lassie” —which reminds us that there
is a war in progress, despite Italy’s
assurance that she is only doing a
little police patrol work. Now comes
the question, What are we as Canadians and as Dalhousians thinking
of our position if Great Britain decides to break in on this conflict?

I rather think that no fiery polemic
is needed to instill pacifist ideas into
the heart of every loyal Dalhousian,
not to speak of his loyalty to
Canada.

We like to think that on this side
of the water, at least, we have the
capacity for progress, and have, in
fact, gone a long way along the
road to peace, in particular.

Let nation barbarously murder
nation in other spheres of civilization, if they will, but in Canada we
respect intellect rather than brute
force—civilization rather than barbarism.

Are we to descend from our lofty |
height to a level where we would |

ever listen to such bloodthirsty tripe
as “inspired the hearts of men” back
in 1914?

Hark to a Dalhousie Gazette-man
writing in 1914:

“Dogs! Would ye live forever?”
Trenchant words these, and no less
true today than on the day they were
uttered. These words should sink
into our minds, our very souls. Our
Motherland is in the throes of the
supreme struggle, and what is to be
our part in it? Are we going to
take no part? Are we afraid? It
is the bounden duty of those who
know our country’s past to secure
her future.

Are we willing to sacrifice our
present ambitions, our present aims,
for country and fatherland? Are we
willing to give in blood, our own
blood, the price of freedom? The
spirit of our great founder is about
us. Is Dalhousie worthy of her great
founder ?”

Such was the voice of 1914. Clearly we have progressed since then,
for today such exhortations would
be placed at the mental door of a
raving madman, one in whom the
lust for blood had taken possession
of his higher faculties.

It defies our wildest imaginings
that such views should be postulated
by a Dalhousie student. Truly, since
1914 we have progressed.

Let us then be true to the spirit
of our funder, not by endeavoring to
smash all that civilization has accomplished so far, but by standing
firm to the ideas’and ideals which
actuated him to found this seat of
learning; that we strive toward the
goal of truer civilization along the
path of culture—nit bloodshed.

And these few thoughts, let me
say, are not the vague imaginings of
an aestehtic creature to whom our
world appears in rainbow tints.
Whether Canada can remain neutral
(there is no doubt in any of our
minds but that it should,) has been
the subject of many a practicalminded discussion. You may read a
sound treatment of the subject in
the July issue of the Dalhousie Review, a magazine which we earnestly
recommend to every undergraduate
student. The graduates have long
since recognized its worth. The subject is, “Can Canada remain neutral?” The author, Mr. Escott Reid.
The author holds that Canada, to
remain neutral—

(1) Must declare, through Parliament, that she is resolved to maintain neutrality in the future, no
matter who the belligerents may be.

(2) Should demand from the next
Imperial Conference recognition of
her neutrality.

(3) Should serap her present channels of diplomatic communication between Great Britain and herself, and
the defence policy reorganized.

(4) Should so arrange her international trade as to place it in a position of relatively less and less importance.

A point which he emphasizes is
that the success of these measures

rising wave of co-operation that is returning |can be greatly enhanced if they are
: supported by strong public opinion.present situation

Selfishness?

Present day governments and political parties generally, it has been
submitted, are chiefly concerned with
the matter of social legislation—
why?

Of the several reasons which may
be advanced the first requires few
words. This is an additional outlet
for the distribution of -political
plums at the public expense. Nevertheless this consideration would seem
to be outweighed by the extra burden of taxation certain to be required
out of all proportion to the advantage derived politically. There must
be a more cogent reason.

Undoubtedly there is a real and
very strong demand on the part of a
significantly large section of the
populace for these measures. It is
difficult to estimate to how great an
extent this is an educated demand,
that is, one whose origin lies in suggestions thrown out by political
workers, but it would seem that to
a great extent it has come from independent sources. Church and
charitable organizations, divorced
completely from polities in their intentions, have implanted the root
idea of individual equality and personal rights. The burden which once
rested solely upon such institutions
has not so much been shifted to the
shoulders of government as increased
with the government brought in to
bear the additional load. By so doing some individuals have sought to
escape responsibility for charities in
their own communities.

 

 

October 10, 1935

     

Symptoms of disorder have cropped
out on the campus of Columbia University between the radical and conservative elements. The Dean cites
as an instance the anti-war agitation
and holds that sincere pacifists find
it grotesque because the movement
is colored by those working for a
class war. Whether reprehensible or
not, it is undeniable that the League
Against War and Fascism is used
by the Communists as a weapon
against the Fascist State, which
they regard as the last stand of
capitalism.

 

Under the National Youth Administration over 40,000 students in
New York State have already been
chosen to receive Federal and State
aid so that they may continue their
education. The grants to college
students will range from $15 to $40
a month. In return the students will
do part-time work, tutoring, directing athletics, engaging in social welfare, and acting as college librarians
and clerks. Where are our great
parties with their advanced social
reforms and their deep interest in
the young people, 1,000,000 of whom
reached voting age this election?

 

For the term 1934-35, Dalhousie
University had a deficit of slightly

A strong |over $29,000. This was due mainly

tendency prevails toward an increase | to the sharp decrease in returns from
in the field of legislative enactment, investments and from tuition fees.
in special by the usurpation of con- | Will the student be stuck again?

tro! over social welfare.

This old and favorite panacea of the

A further reason presents itself in| college has at last reached the point,
the desire of certain parties to evade |if it did not do so long ago, where
a burden which would or might fall|any slight gains resulting will be
upon them personally. Such legisla-|more than offset by the loss from|is meant to have Italian or Nova
tion as the Old Age Pensions is sup-| falling attendance.

ported not merely by the earnest and

sincere social worker, but also, it is | works independently for the common
submitted, by the man who wishes to | cause,

escape the task of caring for his
parents in their old age. It is not
suggested that he would see them in
want and render no aid, but he would
much prefer to have the government
keep them. Similarly the industrialist who must guarantee his workmensome compensation when injured
and who finds his business oppressed
by many casualties is extraordinarly
willing to support schemes whereby
the government bears the expense.
Finally, and probably most important, are the would-be recipients of
the proposed benefits. Vain may be
their hope oftentimes, yet each exercises hig vote. It is easy to see at
55 that the lack of life insurance or
other adequate provision for old age
may be overcome by supporting a retirement scheme. A good-for-nothing who is employed at some simple
task readily seizes the opportunity to
institute a minimum wage. The poor

merchandiser is not slow to grasp the | |

chance afforded by a fair competition enactment which would penalize
his more capable competitor. Each
man seeks his own selfish ends..

Selfishness? Surely the term is
too harsh. Call it rather democracy.
How can the will of the sovereign
people be properly ascertained unless
the mass of individual viewpoints be
heaped together? No one knows, at
least none ought to know, so well as
the individual what he most wants
and needs. The democratic interaction must produce thetheoretically
correct result.

The question is not even so simple
as that. The old formula of “the
greatest good for the greatest number” no longer suffices, and in its
stead is the “greatest good of each
and every individual.” This does not
mean that the individual has become
one whit less selifish where his own
interests are directly concerned. Not
a bit of it. The changed attitude
has come in regard to matters in
Which the individual has no present
personal concern. Where formerly
the small minority desired certain
social legislation out of merely selfish motives, today the various minorities have made common cause to
form a majority capable of carrying
into force each minority’spet desire.
How has this come about? Less by
design than by a certain change in
psychological outlook. Once form
the “underdog” attitude, an inferiority complex and the party so affected
can see only the underdog’s side of
the question in any matter brought
to his attention. Hence arises the
in which each

cei lhc a imma ial errant eetearians ieee teteaentea tenant

Sympathy today is preponderantly
for the common cause. Is not the
returned prodigal more of a hero
than his stay-at-home brother? Does
he not deserve better things to compensate for the many good things of
which for some years he has been deprived? From this attitude there
must of necessity arise a peculiar
sympathy for the man who appears
to deserve lease, and a turning

     

SOMETHING TO
THINK ABOUT

Sy
SS
se SSS SSS Ss iS

The SUIT that hung
ina CLOSET

The price was certainly cheap.
wasn’t very becoming and the suit didn’t fit too well,
but the material was good and it WAS a bargain. So
Bill Jones bought the suit, took it home and hung it
in the closet. That night he and his wife were gving
out to a bridge game. He put on his new suit, but the

Interesting statistics on Monday’s
election: It is estimated that the 900
candidates will spend $4,000,000, the
party organizations supplying $2,500,000 of this. Besides the latter
item, the parties will spend a further sum of $2,500,000 on propaganda. Federal expenses, including
the revision of the voters’ list, will
be $3,500,000, making a grand total
of $10,000,000. The number of votes
cast will be considerably less than
$5,000,000, the cost per vote being
at least $2.00. Why depend on a
party policy to restore prosperity?
Why not have a few more elections?

 

The Soviet Union, alarmed by increasing immorality and the rising
divorce rate which for May of this
year stood at 44% of the marriages,
has passed stricter divorce laws.
Under the “post-card” system a husband or wife went to a divorce
bureau, paid three rubles and departed free of the bonds of matrimony. The other members learnt of
the divorce by mail. 500,000 alimony
cases had arisen in a _ three year
period. Now no divorce is final
proof that both parties knew of it.
Alimony-dodging is punished by two
years in jail, which casts doubt on
the assertion, upheld by the Soviet
Union that human nature can be
changed.

 

Eight thousand tons of barbed wire
left the Sydney steel works this
week, consigned to an English firm.
An interesting topic for Sodales
might be whether this barbed wire

Scotian stiffs draped over it?

against the one who might otherwise appear to deserve most. The
basis of all this attitude is, rationalize as you will, a form of selfish
ness. It has arisen particularly of
late years, and is increasing. It is
too soon to attempt to gauge the result. Its effect on government has
been and promises to be exceeding
great. Time alone will tell what this
particular and peculiar kind of selfishness will produce.

It’s true the color

 

longer he surveyed himself in the mirror the less he

liked his appearance.

“I can’t say that I like your new suit, Bill,’ commented
his wife. “Why don’t you wear that old blue one you

bought at SHANE’S?”

uneasy.

 

chase he ever made.
for something he had

Next time he’ll pay a little more and buy another suit
He knows that he will get quality, value
and fit. He also knows he will fee] well-dressed when

1. That it will give him long wear and a
sense of satisfaction with his purchase.

AND THAT WILL BE A REAL BARGAIN.

at SHANE’S.

he puts it on.

SHANE’S

MEN'S SHOP

THIRTY SPRING GARDEN ROAD

“Oh well, it’ll do to wear at work,” he assured himself
as he changed into his blue suit.

The next day he wore his new suit to the office; he
noticed one sleeve was a bit shorter than the other
and that the front didn’t hang very well either.
wondered whether others noticed the cheapness of his
clothing. Six o’clock found him still self-conscious and

He

Somehow he never wore that suit again. The suit still
hangs in the closet, and cheap though the suit was,
Bill Jones realizes that it was the most expensive purFor he traded his good money
no use for.

 

 
    
 

  
    

undoubted friendliness and inst which exists, that these pa
pe ‘pers should almost daily, through

at the college term, print items which

carry false impressions to the people

of Nova Scotia, with resulting damage to the reputation of the Uni
s = 7 r sity.

_ A recent striking example of what

J mean is contained in issues of both

papers a few days ago. President
Carleton Stanley held a confid ntial
_ session with the student body. ‘The

confidential nature of this meeting
_ should have been respected by both
newspapers. I also question whether

or not it was wise for the Gazette

to have published any report of this

sa : - meeting, in view of the President’s

request that it should be confidential.
The report which appeared in the
press must surely have been garbled,
for the President was made to say
that he criticized Dalhousie dancing
and Dalhousie music. It is obvious
that the parent of a student from
any outside place could not help but
conclude that Dalhousie dancing and
music differed from that of other
places and were more objectionable.
I do not know what the President
actually did say, and I am not going
“snooping”, in order to ask and
student to violate the quiet proper
request that the meeting should be
regarded as confidential.

Many older people believe that
modern dancing is all objectionable,
and that all modern music is unlovely. As one of the older ones, I believe that some of it is objectionable,
some of it looks merely stupid—and
that some of it has much of grace

and beauty. The music of today is

di
a
Pe

Ee

COUNCIL
TICKET ADMITS
TWO

pore

>tit«

So

subject to the same comparison. The
old waltz was a most graceful and
beautiful dance, when danced by
graceful dancers. I have seen it
made quite as objectionable and
hideous as any modern dance, and I
have seen it danced to musie which
was not musical.

I would like to say a few words
further on the subject of the harm
the press is doing to the school. To
a

 

PED AG.

 

day high pressure society reporters | =

are on the constant look-out for
social items. If Mrs. A. has Mrs. B.,
C. and D. in for a game of bridge,
it is quite likely to be reported in
the press.

Today at Dalhousie there are
many faculties, societies, class
groups, fraternities, etc., all of which
have social functions, small and
large. The smaller ones of today
correspond to private entertainments
which were given by the parents of
Halifax city students in years gone
by, in their own homes, and which
were not reported. The reporting of
all of these small and informal functions quite naturally leads to the
impression that the students of Dalhousie are utterly frivolous, which
I do not believe is the case.

If Acadia and Mount Allison students have many functions and they
are reported in their local press, the
reports scarcely get outside Wolfville and Sackville. On the contrary,
if a small group at Dalhousie has
an equally small and very innocent
function, it appears in the press and
is spread over the Maritimes, and
the multiplicity of such notices leads
to faulty and injurious conclusions.

Let the press report more of your
serious doings—such as Glee Club,
Sodales, Moot Court, Students’ Medical Society, etc., also personals of
interest, athletic activities, and
major social events only.

Yours truly,

AN ALUMNUS.

THE BEST

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

STU

ie

Suiines SS — eo ea

I
ee

ENTS’

We were intrigued by that distant
rumble. What could it be? After
seeing that cinema, “Sanders of the
River”, we had about concluded that
we were listening to the jungle telegraph system transmitting a ten
word message, the last word, of
course, being “love”. Were we listening to the King of Kings send his
mobilization orders to all parts of
his country? No—just one of the
campus cars taking off!

 

Somewhere, at some time, we read
that the commercial value of the
elements that constitute mere man is
approximately 59c. If this be true
we presume that it must have been
a Saturday morning special. Be this
true or false, we know one Shirreff
Haller who was thoroughly convinced
that man is grossly overvalued at
that figure. We use the past tense
because we do not know whether she
has changed her mind in the last
two weeks—the latest reports have
not come to hand.

What authority have we for making such a statement? Yes, we admit that the news reached us
through the college broadcasting
system—and it was no idle rumour;

there is no such thing as idle ru-|

mour. Anyone who has been the victim of rumour knows that idleness
is not one of her virtues, as such
stories just speed merrily along,

The young co-ed in question is reported to have expressed her
thoughts most emphatically early
last spring—just before the annual
girls’ frolic when the Shirreff Hall
phones work overtime. Doubtless
she had good reason for her pronouncement, but she must have forgotten that the course of love (true
or false) never runs, crawls or leaps
in a straight course. Because we
think that all Dalhousians should
know—and especially the Freshmen
—we are asking the Editors to give
us space to print the now famous
remark. Gentlemen of the first year,
please note particularly! You are
now to hear the impression of at
least one co-ed.

“Show me,” said the pleasing
young lady from that great Atlantic
port that produces so many delightful, attractive, and even vivacious
co-eds, “Yes, show me one man at
Dalhousie who is worth $1.00 and
I'll pay $2.00 and take him to Delta
Gamma.”

A drastic comment, we think. Of
course if she was a gold digger and
always consulted Dun & Bradstreet’s
before accepting a date, then we
agree that the point is well taken.
We tried to borrow two bits yesterday, but the young lady is not a
miner of that type—but we still
think she is a minor.

Although we have done nothing to
deserve this harsh criticism, yet we
are necessarily included in the 59c
(or less) class. You see, we have
taken Herbie’s lectures. We concede
that we could do little to persuade
the lady to change her mind, but we
would like to try. Perhaps now, after a pleasant summer, she is willing to forgive and forget, and even
if she is not eonvinced that there is
one man at Dalhousie who is worth
$1.00, at least she is not so thoroughly convinced that there isn’t.
For the sake of vindicating the male
at Dalhousie may we have the opportunity of proving that we are
worth $1.00, less a generous discount ?

 

Look here, Oswald, are you trying
to make a date-——Editor’s note.

 

Yes and no! Mr. Editor, we would
do almost anything to erradicate

some erroneous impressions down at

the Hall—Oswald.

Bois

 

eS Seesssssssnnesssnessseessssnessessnsnssasnnsenen
SS
SSS ss

ee

 
 
 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

TAKE YOUR
MEDICINE

“False is the way of the friendly
hand,
Diogenes breaks his lantern stand.”

Vitamin “T”, the truth vitamin,
the quintessence of research, at last
attained by scientists. Grand as is
the new discovery—as queer is its
effect. The Cameo, Garden Sweets,
Shirreff Hall, Pine Hill, and the
boarding house mistress are using it
as a basic ingredient. No sooner
tried than done when Moira Davison
lost control of her gourded emotions
and cried, “I don’t want to study all
the time.” Maybe she is conforming
with the general attitude at the Hall,
where the nose is perched so high
that it is mistaken for a mooring
post.

 

 

On the football field Saturday a
truth advocate offered the obstreperous bass-drummer, “BaBe” DuBilier, a vial-full of the Vitamin. He
smiled and nodded, “I have enough
beats, thank you.” Which brings us
to Pine Hill, where Frazer Nicholson is beating all records telling
tales out of school. We wonder if
he has mistaken Vit. “E” for Vit.
a

 

The “Great Benji”, without the aid
of the truth evoker, harangued the
4th year on the verities for their
silly prejudices, while an unsuspecting nurse developed varicose veins,
waiting in the corridor.

 

George Murphy was tempted to
break the long line of excellent doctors in his family and turn to Hollywood, but the maid had used an inferior grade of Vit. “T”,

Too bad Dr. Mainland’s supply was
depleted; he wanted so badly to go
into a dance when he demonstrated
to the 1st years how to abduct the
thigh.

At the Nova Scotia Hospital the
patients appear to be the only people inured to the effects. They are
hard nuts to crack.

 

Truth is a mighty weapon—even
in unskilled hands. Your columnist
asks to look around for yourself and
apply the truth to situations where
respect and inferiority flourish—and
remember that truth is not all
beauty Look at our dental friends.

 

The 2nd year class is not far
enough advanced to experiment with
truth. The Biochemistry department
has confined the diets for their experiments on rats to vitamins A, B,
C, D, E. “T” will be served later.
We await the outcome—anxious to
know what the rats will say to the
students.

 

At the athletic tea dance Barnhill
threw a teaspoonful into the coffee
(which lacked something). Alas and
behold Hal Taylor burst forth, “And
I paid to get into this morgue.”
Graham Sims and his bunch dread
the truth—so they calmly picked up
the worthiest of the females. and
threw their own tea-dance; and as
the tune goes, “That’s why dances
are spoiled.”

 

Outside the Med school Stevens
has already shown the effect of a
dose of Vit. “T”, while Bennett and
Mackenzie King vie with each other
trying to dodge an injection.

Go to your local dealer for a good
dose. and let your whispers rise
above a murmur.

P.S.—Lou Ryan has so much faith
in the vitamin that he calls his girl
friend—‘Vi”,

You needn’t snicker, Lou Perea.
We know the truth why you disappeared so early in the evening, at
the party two weeks ago.

 

And about this time of the year
most of the freshmen kick themselves for not going in for dentistry.

 

Who is the baby for which Charlie
Macdonald makes dates any time
from 2 a.m, to 7 a.m.?

Be on your guard while your columnist’s pen looms over you.

; _—— Se = ma
pike LE SOE Le TD

COUNC

eis ee 3 dd

 

|PINE HILL
PEN PRICKS

 

This year we greet an unusually
large number of freshmen, perhaps
the largest number we have welcomed in the last four years. It
gives us a great deal of pleasure to
welcome the new men, and we hope
that, in the course of time, despite
the lack of initiation, they may be
able to take their place among: us.
The word “initiation” reminds us
that there were not a few grey-heads
amongst us who almost regretted its
abolition, when one or two of the
frosh made their appearance. But
a judicious hint here and there has
worked wonders, and by now the
seniors are more or less gratified by
at least a formal concession to their
years and consequent superiority.

 

The great MacMillan is also back
with us. Murray has been in the
“wild and woolly” west for the last
six months, but he has resisted its
influences remarkably well. We
should like, “at this juncture”, however, to remonstrate against the excursion that Murray made last week,

Can it possibly be a case of “cherchez la femme”?

 

_We have been moved to indignation by some overheard remarks
regarding the price of board here.
We strongly refute the suggestion
that “men pay seven dollars a week
and Newfoundlanders six”, It is
quite incorrect, for inside information permits us to disclose that the
latter pay at least $6.25.

 

There are rumors in the air of the
annual freshman reception. “Pat”
McDonald, whom we also take this
opportunity of welcoming back, after spending last winter as a gigolo
on a West Indies steamer, has taken
the frosh under his wing. There
Seems to be a considerable amount
of talent in the new men and we
may rely on “Pat” to bring it out.

Freshie - Soph
Writes Home

Sheriff Haul,
Oct. 10th, 1935,
Dear Maw and Paw:

Well, here I yam, as Popeye sez,
ensconced within the Haul, and I
now take my pen in hand to tell you
all about what has transposed since
you left me here. O how I pine for
the farm and some of Maw’s lushus
pies, though the new Dietishun at
the Haul can cook pretty well, too.

Didn’t the Registrar seem to be a
nice man? The girls tell me that
he is much nicer some times than
others, but skip it. That last means
to let it go by, just like Paw always
lets a big car pass the Ford.

O I met the nicest young man
yesterday. He bumped into me when
I was coming out of the Library
(that’s where they keep the boox,
librarians, Gazettes and other queer
things) and nocked my boox on to
the ground. He told me that he was
taking his M. A. in classes, and: I
Just thot how nice it would be if
Maw could come with me and hear
those nice professors talk an hour
at a time.

O I was so embrassed in English
yesterday. The man behind the table
with the brown tweed suit asked me
if I liked Keats, and I told him that
I simply couldn’t bear children. The
hole class laffed and laffed, and then
he told me to tell Dr. Holland and
that made it worse. Was my physiiognimy erubresent? It was terrific.

And I felt awful today in Geology
when Mr. Douglass asked me what
we got in the mines near the farm
and I told him “dirty”. He sed that
if I ever got anything else it would
amount to a catastrophe which would
be of cattyclysmick proporshuns, and
I sed I would tell my uncle to be
careful.

It-is now late and I must study
my lessons for tomorrow, though I
am pretty sleepy.

Hoping you are the same, I still
remain

Your loving daughter,

 

 

 

AGATHA.

Page Three

BACKSIGHT

AND

FORESIGHT

 

The old trouble about notices and
notice-boards is wlth us again. New
and important notices of meetings,
etc., are lost in the clutter of ones
which are out of date. Or else a
notice is posted perhaps on the Arts
board and nowhere else. A case in
point, although the fault is excusable, since arrangements were made
only at the last minute, is the notice
of the peace meeting of last Saturday; no notice was placed at the
Law School, and as a result interested students were unaware of the
conclave.

Here at least one of Mr. Fisher’s
ideas might be put to work; why
not have a little system and responsibility with regard to notices? John
suggests the appointment of some
sort of manager to look after the
proper notification of some of the
many important meetings which the
students must attend in neglect of
his studies.

 

It has long been a source of wonder to us why a university administration so inisistent on health examinations and the payment of hardearned cash for same should be almost criminally negligent with regard to lighting conditions in the
various libraries. At Studley we
have a magnificent library building,
admirably staffed and stocked, but
in which the electric lights are notoriously inadequate for night reading. As a result eyes are strained
and headaches and nervousness prevalent, not to mention the consequent
expense for treatments, the many
failures, due partly perhaps at least
to these conditions, and the general
worry and hardship resulting.

It surely would not necessitate a
very great expenditure to insert
stronger bulbs, to rearrange lights,
and in general to install lighting
which meets the requirements of
modern science. Surely such an
action would be merely pursuing. the
present wise policy of the university
in supervising the students’ health
along a line of utmost importance.

 

While we admit that when all is
said and done Italy’s claims of justification for attempting to carve off
a piece of Abyssinia are pretty
shaky, we sometimes forget that
Italy has any case at all, or at least
has a case which seems pretty reasonable to the Italian. Mussolini
claims that the Fascist state is only
pursuing its destiny as all the great
Powers have done before. He refuses, as one writer says, “to see
the mote in Italy’s eye while there is
the beam of imperial expansion in
our grandfather’s eye’.

He claims that Ethiopia is a backward, slave-ridden area which needs
conversion to Italian culture, and
that it would be to the abiding good
of the world as a whole, including
incidentally Italy and Ethiopia, if it
were so convinced. He is indignant
that anyone should attempt to prevent him from undertaking “the
white man’s burden” in this virgin
territory, and from punishing the
wild tribes which have continually
troubled Italian Somaliland.

The only unfortunate thing is that
since the happy-go-lucky, imperialistic days of the nineteenth century a
mass of treaties, agreements, pacts,
covenants, and what have you, have
arisen to moderate the expansionist’s
zeal. It might have been a good
thing in this particular case if they
had not arisen; we could sit at home
in our ring-side seats and watch
Italy grab the little black sheep.

As it is, it looks as if Britain may
have to choose whether to have a
little war now or a big around about
1950. The British people seem,
from all reports, to be squarely behind the government’s support of
the League. Or is the British government merely back of British oil
interests and Egyptian cotton? Canadians seem to have developed a
definitely isolationist complex, rightly or wrongly. Personally I think I
will hit for the backwoods when and
if war is declared.

            
 
 
  
  

 

GYM
TO-NIGHT

8.30 p. m.

 
 

ee a

er t

THE MED

The Med—why he is wonderful,
Ingenious and well bred.

Who thinks the Med to be so grand?
Why, no one but the Med.

 

When our good medical friend—
the brains behind “Take Your Medicine—breaks down and _ confesses
that, “You can’t insult me—I’m too
ignorant”—he sure uttered a g.ceat
big mouthful.

Our great big “Medicine Man” de
serves a rousing cheer for his brilliant diagnosis. His apparently long
probocis has uncovered some rather
startling facts about the Dental
School. For he definitely questions
the erudition of our professors—
praises the grandness of his fellow
Meds and sees the Dental student
only as casting “envious glances at
their more astute classmates”.

When a man becomes “intoxicated
with the exuberance of his own verbosity” to the extent of casting unreasonable insulting reflections upon
a school, I believe it is time that
someone gently slapped the writer
(?) on the wrist, pat him on the
head and say, “Now, now, little boy
—play nice.”

a, ee so

SOCIETY NOTICE

“Cueball Looie” no longer shares
a room with the Firechief. We don’t
know what brought about the
change. Perhaps it was due to last
week’s publicity—or maybe the Cueball is of the meditative type and
wants to be alone,—or perchance the
Firechief was making it too hot for
the frigid ‘“Cueball”.

 

And then there is the sad story
of a Dental student who had himself X-Rayed because he wanted to
know what people see in him.

 

Charlie Guzzetta, our enthusiastic
secretary-treasurer of the Dental
Society, has been “tickled on the
palm” by quite a few boys. However, we must have one hundred per
cent monetary enthusiasm before we
can begin to do things. So let’s go,
boys—start the shekels rolling.

WANTED

15 Bandsmen with or without instruments.

 

Apply at
Gazette Office.

A Message To College Men

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a

provision for the future, or contemplatng the

selling of life insurance as a profession, you
would do well to consider the outstanding

sixty-four year record of The Mutual Life of

Canada.
Branch Manager or

Mutual Life Assurance Company

OF CANADA

HOME OFFICE — WATERLOO, ONTARIO
Established 1869

EATON’S

Smart New Styles in

gatonia OXFORDS

There are several good looking styles featured in the
Shoes for men and young men
... of solid leather construction, with graceful, comfortable styling. Sizes 6 to 11.
Fall shoes from this EATON line tomorrow?

new arrivals for Fall.

pair

EATONIA Boots, pair 5.00

Communicate with our nearest

our Home Office.

 

 

Why not choose your

 

4.50

Eaton’s—Second Floor

&T, EATO N Co

$1.50 PER COUPLE

 

|

*|ture; at their worst, they could hold| of the Glee Club calls for the nom_| have the best team that we have su

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

TICERS LOSE BY

SINGLE CONVERT

Playing before the largest crowd in many years, and with
the added attraction of a reorganized Dal band, the Dal supporters saw their team time after time come within scoring
range, and even cross the line on four occasions, but the official
eount was 5—3. Once Buckley crossed the line at the corner,
but his attempt to improve the chances of a convert cost him a
try. Again Crease went over, but was called back. Then the
scrum crossed, and the ball was covered by four Tigers, but it
went for a safety.

 

| ———_——_—_—_———_ —————————
From a spectator’s point of view, | . 3
it was a brilliant exhibition. Bar Senator Against-teams tackled well, and at times half (Continued from Page One)
the players on the field were down.) so universal and profound as it is in
The back fields, when they clicked, | the very hour of threatened war.
worked with machine-like precision. Wherever the people are free,
All told, it was the best game seen| where the voices of the people is
on the campus in many years. heard, where speech is untrammelled
For Dalhousie, Pooh DeWolf was| and liberty of action unchained the
outstanding, and the most effective | cause of peace advances toward reman on the field. ‘Thompson, Mc-| alization. In the larger sense, thereSween, Gunter and Buckley showed | fore, the cause of peace is the cause
up well, and were always in the|of free speech, of a free press, of
play. For Acadia, Sanford and Run- | human liberty, of constitutional govnells were the stars, although the|;ernment. The strongholds of war
Acadia team were more consistent} are in those lands where the voice
than Dal. of the people has been silenced, conAcadia won the toss, and Dal stitutional government
kicked off against the wind. The play
was returned to the Tigers’ end, and
with the aid of some costly fumbles
by the Dal backfield, Runnells broke
through for Acadia’s touchdown.
Sanford converted to make the score
eS From then on, the first half
was featured by backfield efforts, and
the play switched from end to end.
aeetny made a nice run for thirty

 

ples will. Where intolerance fattens
upon human misery, where race
hatred is fostered for selfish ends,
where men are mere cogs in a soulless state machine, where personal
government dominates the will of the
people, there are the
grounds of war.

“Peoples do not make war.” They
do not lie They do not falsify
recards to justify theft. Those who
serve the cause of constitutional
government serve the cause of peace
and serve the cause of civilization.
Perhaps in this way only can peace
ultimately triumph.

I congratulate the authors of this
program in bringing to the people

yards, but was brought down before
he could get across.

In the second half, Dal carried the
play to Acadia, and after a brilliant
passing attack in which Buckley,
Connors, Ross and Crease carried the
ball for forty yards, DeWolfe made
the try. Sheppard failed to convert

the difficult angle. From then on it
was anybody’s game. The tackling | this array of gifted men and women.
was spectacular, and the play incred-| They are contributing of their
ibly fast. .When Dal clicked, they genius to a great cause and placing
swept Acadia before them, but the | millions under deep and lasting obforwards failed to give the necessary | ligations.

support to the backfield.
Despite the fact that they lost the Dal C oun cil-
first game, Dalhousie are still confident that they have the City League! (Continued from Page One)

champions. At their best Saturday,|and possibly also for the position of
Acadia were crowded out of the pic-| business manager. The constitution

them. And when they click, Dal will inations for the presidency to be
made by the Executive and president

since 1927. of the Council. The eexecutive

The line-up: brought in the nomination of Mr.
Dalhousie — Fullback: Worreli;| Roy only, and Mr. Taylor said that
three-quarters: Hinchey, Connors, there was difficulty in getting any

competent man to accept a nomination other than Mr. Roy. Rather
than declare the position filled by
will

Thompson, Ross; five-eights: Buckley; quarters: McSween, Crease; forwards: Lawrence, Mercer, Ball, Gun
ter, DeWolfe, Cook, Sheppard. be

acclamation, nominations
|called for in the Gazette.
A tennis
by the

budget was also
DA.

pre
| sented Ay C. ."Bhis

Dal Band Is

Huge Success

asked for last year, due to the fact
that home games have been dropped.
|Last year the amount was $118.00;
this year, $106.00.

An account from Pender’s for ’bus
service was presented, an orphan
from last year. This was sent back
to the D.A.A.C. for further consideration because no _ satisfactory
count had been rendered.

Another account which failed to
receive the O.K. was from the City
Hockey League. No reason could be
given how this account was incurred
and it was referred back to the D.
A. A. C. for particulars.

 

Decked out in yellow sweatshirts
and collegiately hatted, the Dal
Band presented themselves to the
student body last Saturday, led by
Johnny Morrison. The crowd, which
had been hearing odd squeaks and
dins before and during the intermediate game, applauded vigorously
as the apparition marched before
them.

A well-balanced repertoire was affered, consisting of “On to Triumph”, “No Surrender’, and “My
Girl’s a Crackerjack”. Time did not |
permit the renditions of a score of
others.

The band is deserving of great
praise for presenting such good
music in so short a practice period.

 

ac
Dal Students Must-
(Continued from Page One)
members of the force. Similarly
many citizens are wiling to pay taxes
to send miitary expeditions against
law breaking nations but are unwilling personally to fight except in defence of their country.

So far it has been possible to side
step the personal issue. The individual may be in favour of general

The Glee Club asks every student
who can play an instrument to support the organization and help build
it to unprecedented heights.

Watch your bulletin boards for
practice notices.

 

 

 

destroyed, |
and arbitrary power subdues a peo-|

breeding |

showed a decrease over the amount |

October 10, 1935

 

      
   

 

Don't carry Bulky shoes down town!

WE CALL AND DELIVER
AT LOWER PRICES

CAPITOL SHOE REPAIR

44 - 46 SACKVILLE STREET Just Phone B-8566

American Football
Saturday

 
 

 

 

economic measures and of military
measures on the part of the nations
close to the scene of the trouble.
Further, the individual may favor international police work by regular
soldiers. Now comes the crucial
question: Are you personally prepared to bear arms to restrain a nation which the League declares to be
an aggressor? When your country
is in danger many of you will bear
arms in her defence. Does the existence of a state of war somewhere in
the world endanger your ney |
either directly or indirectly?

Let us discover the truth at all
costs. Does the Devil still rule the
world? Is the League and international co-operation and peace and
justice and all that sort of thing
nothing but a bluff and a sham? Is
‘the Covenant merely a new set of
rules for the old game of might is
right, Geneva merely a new place to}
carry on back stairs diplomacy?

The American football team, recognized by the D.A.A.C. last year, will
play the first scheduled game on
Saturday, October 12, at St. Mary’s
field at 2.30 p.m. Coach Mandelstajn has put the boys through vigof
repeating the triumphs of last year.

|orous practices and is hopeful

Becker and Kranz, last year‘s bigthreat men, have been lost to the
team. Rumors that the team is
definitely weakened have been denied by Mandelstain, who claims
that the positions have been filled by
capable gridders.

Dalhousie has never been defeated
in two years of play. This year St.
Mary’s threatens to break the chain
of victories by placing on the field
a better-trained and harder-fighting
team than ever developed,

You should not miss this game if
you want to enjoy a real football
treat.

 

 

 

 

Big Vote-
(Continued from Page One)

‘in every right-thinking British subject born under the Union Jack, will
mean something more than a hollow
statement made in a time of peace
when guns méan nothing to them.

A great number of college students will also be forced to vote that
they would go to war, in that they
have taken, regularly every year or
three years, the solemn oath of alle| giance to King George V, when they
have at some time or other joined
sections of the Canadian Non-Permanent Militia. These will either
have to say “yes” or consider themselves not men of their word and
‘oath.

The only importance that this
plebiscite can have—and it will still
be of the greatest importance—is not
to find out what the college mind on
the matter is, but rather to set each
student on his feet, to show him
that the present crisis is a serious
one which may affect him greatly,
and to make him make up his mind.

 

Mr. J. R. H. Sutherland, our business manager, is out of town.

JOB WANTED

Thoroughly experienced Barber
wants job with Dal Students.

 

Expert in Canadian and American

Hair Cut styles. Apply at

BEN BOWLBY’S
445 BARRINGTON ST.
25 CENT RATE.

 

 

 
    
   
   
 

DANCE MUSIC
Laurie Hart
And His Orchestra.

Call B-6489 Halifax

Dance Programmes

Girls and

“Fellers” |

Notice: Freshmen and
find The
Green Lantern a very

Due to Birks association with the L. G.
Balfour Company, a
new and unusual series
of Dance Programmes
is now available, and
at extremely moderate
prices.

others will

pleasant place for re- Invitations. etc
ions, ete.

freshments, candy and |

 

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

CASINO || @iiy}iTy

pastry. |

The Green Lantern

 

 

 

 

 
  

Starting Saturday :
FRI. 
 

 

OSTOBER 12th SAT. - MON.
“The Bi
|| “Annapolis e Big
‘ Broadcast
Farewell of 1936”
with 30 PARAMOUNT STARS

 

including :

Jack Oakie, Lyda Robert,
George Burns, Gracie Allen
and Wendy Barrie
Plus Specialties by
Bing Crosby, Ethel Merman,
Amos ’n’ Andy
Mary Boland, Chas. Ruggles.

SIR GUY STANDING
RICHARD CROMWELL
TOM BROWN
ROSALIND KEITH

And the Midshipmen of the
U. S. Naval Academy

 

 

 

FRESHIE-SOPH DANCE
NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL -- Fri, Oct. 18

 

 

 
