    
  

  

  
  

a ee

= a?

   

ae ee |
eee >

 

oa el a ofa S
av
#
; eo) %
, t

dea
:

 

Of Council Calls

«
i

‘

'

}

fia \

7

   

 

}

¥
r

4
y

i
4

  

.

j

   
    
   

sh

Sek

  
   

2

a
5
ms

i

» be
wi
.

2 com

:
to!
il
mah

| tae
*

re * z a

*
A
t
7
=,

For Attendance

Dalhousie’s Student Council will hold another of its
meetings at the Munroe Room on Sunday at two o’clock,
when a number of matters relative to the welfare of the

- gtudent body will be discussed. Several of these matters

- depend entirely on the minds

of the student body, but the

Council will attempt ‘to deal with them as they see fit.

Students’ Council meetings,
for the first time in years, have
received considerable advance

publicity this year, but to no

avail. In some cases, scarcely
a quorum of members has been
present, while student interest
in ‘how their monies are being
spent is laughably but lamentably absent. — |

  
 

- Elsewhere on this page is a

list of matters which the Council will discuss and which every
student who calls his mind his
own, should haye some opinion.

It seems, according to a Gazette
survey, that the only outbursts
of opinion come from those
Sodales-minded, and these are
few and far between. Can it be
that an entertainment of some
type must be presented before
the student body will attend a
meeting? Saturday’s football
attendance was marvellous, but
the “pep meeting” the night before made a laughing-stock of
Dalhousians, when not more than
sixty were present out of 850
students.

The Munroe Room, then, at 2
on Sunday.

Dal’s
Boldness

The Acadia Frosh were to have
a class party the Saturday of the
Dal-Acadia Rugby game. The affair was postponed.

Was it because the Acadia
Chieftains feared all bids would be
tendered to Dal lads and lassies
who would be in Wolfville on that
day.

Let us not be so bold. Rumour
speaks rather of Acadia’s apprehension of the crashing ability of
the Dal supporters.

 

i -Student’s Forum
hee At Chem

Theatre

the Gazette goes to press, the
nt’s Forum was being held at

 

+. an

  
  

    
 
  

opes were high that a good turnwould feature the forum, at
h John Fisher will introduce a
ser of matters relevant to life at

President Stanley

To Be Heard In

Series of Lectures G AZ

 

Presently Stanley announces that
he will give a course of lectures on
certain phases of the life of ancient
Greece. The course will not be a
narrative outline of Greek history,
but will deal rather with the development of ideas and institutions: how
the Greeks made a living; their
science of agriculture; their conduct
of trade; what they meant by Law;
their various forms of politics;
Greek Science. There will be a detailed examination of the Peloponnesian War and the suicide of Greek
civilization.

These lectures will be given on
Wednesday and Friday afternoons,
at 5 p.m, in the Physics Theatre, and
will be open to all members of the
University and to any others you
wish to attend. The first lecture will
be given on Wednesday, Novy. 20

Speaking €lub

Has Fine Session

 

 

 

“Resolved that all -faculties but
law should be abolished.”

When this matter came up before
the Effective Speaking Club opinion
varied in direct proportion to the
law students present.

Politics, athletics, religion and education were somehow introduced into
the hot discussion.

 

An excellent idea for the sale of
Year Books was advocated. A speaker suggested a complete canvass of
students during registration where
the cost could be paid directly under
general fees.

 

The Dist item of the evening was
a whirlwind debate on the respective
merits of the Newfoundlander and
the natives of Cape Breton. There
was no physical violence.

 

Prof. Curtis criticized each group
of speeches. He also gave some
very helpful ideas on the growing
popularity of radio talks.

 

The constitution limits the membership of this club to thirty. There
are but a very few positions open.
The group cannot be recommended
too highly.

The next meeting is Wednesday,
November 20th.

LAE COLLEGE

eds Superio
+ hance ~ Big Turnout a Fi eature
- Sunday Session

 

 

 

wes.

— <——

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 15, 1935

——$_$_—$—$ $$

 

McGILL
SPEAKS OUT

N one of the frankest editorials of its history, the editors of the

McGill Daily, official undergraduate newspaper, in its last issue,
under the heading, “The Arts Faculty: A Dwindling Light”, launched
a lengthy criticism of a branch of modern education.

“The arts faculty,” the editorial stated, “should either be abol
ished or re-shaped.

particularly it needs to shake off its inferiority complex.

It needs rejuvenation, change of outlook, and

It should

stop mirroring life and, instead, live it.”
One of the major troubles, the editorial maintains, is that “the
productive spirit is negligible in the arts faculty of the majority of

our institutes of learning. The vital

core is rotting, and in this

pioneering the leading men are from outside the campus, individuals
mostly from the pauper classes who scorn the lifelessness and back
channels of college.”

 

ETTE

REPORTER

FINDS THAT STUDENTS
FAVOR GYM DANCES

On the eve of the day when the question of holding
regular dances at the Dalhousie gymnasium, under the

sponsorship of the Students’

Council, at a price which all

students can afford, was to be raised at the first students’
forum this year, representative Dalhousie students declared themselves in favor of these affairs, though there

was one dissenting voice.

President Stanley, Miss Anna

McKeen, matron of Shirreff Hall, and seven others expressed favorable opinions regarding the dances, and the
dissenter was Janet MacGregor.

Dr. Stanley: I think it would be a
desirable thing. I have always taken
the stand that dances held under the
University should be held on the college premises, and I still think so.

Miss McKeen: The decision rests
ultimately with those who intend to
go to these dances. If they are to
replace all other college dances it
would be a splendid thing, but if

they are to be held in addition to all |

other formal functions and other col
 

dent of the Students’ Council.
Wally Wright, president of Class
39: It’s not a bad idea, but they

 

(Continued on Page Four)

 

Delta Gamma Tea
Dance Saturday

 

 

 

 

The Delta Gamma Tea Dance will

lege affairs, they are quite super-| be held on Saturday at Shirreff Hall,

fluous.

Charles Manning, president
Sodales: I am thoroughly in favor
of these dances, ‘and I have often
expressed this opinion to the presi
 

 

a Year Book.

 

advices reaching the Gazette office

of ' state.

The usual success is expected in
this, one of the opening functions
of the “Girl’s Club”.

 

 

COUNCIL BUSINESS

Consideration of the desirability and practicability of

Suggested periodical dances in the Gymnasium at a
price within reach of the average student pocketbook.

Appointment of a Council Committee to be responsible
for gate receipts from all student activities for which ad
mission is charged.

Consideration of the Glee Club Constitution as revised

to date.

A proposal for the publication in consolidated form of
the constitutions of all student organizations.

Installing of Gazette Collection boxes in University

buildings.

Satisfactory methods of appointing cheerleaders.
Proposal for holding Student Forums at regular

intervals.
Matter of payment for
dent Societies.

Gazette advertising by Stu
All students interested in these topics are invited to

attend.

LL CC tae ae

OO

r As D

  

 

THQUDULVDCUCASPOOSOODOO TE LENEPORU AAA NS

  
 

 

QUQIDINUOVO0QU0S0.000000UCDAUAN EAP ORAL

 

No. 8

 

 

 

al Loses

Spirit Is Willing
But Flesh Weak

game.

Dalhousian Says

 

 

Tigers Defeat Was,

Psychological

By ELKY
Why did Dal lose on Saturday?
Our team was stronger. Wander
ers were severely weakened by
absence of star players § and
through injuries. Local _ sport

writers not pro-Dal at any part of
the season picked the Tigers to
win.

| Well, the writer sees the reason as
|a psychological one.

The league opened with Dal losing
a fairly well played game to Acadia;
then tieing a good game _ with
Wanderers.

After that engagement a spectator
at the practices could see the team
was looking up. The lads were
serappier, quicker, the bit of tackling
that the Tigers do at least was being
done with lots of punch.

If Prof. Bennett will pardon the
comparison’ the team was building
itself up in this act. On Saturday
last in Wolfville the team reached
its peak. Like Caesor when he receives the dagger in his good bosum,
the crisis had been reached.

 

 

 

(Continued on Page Four)

Dal Medicos
Under Fire

Dal clinic doctors were under fire
this week because of alleged tardiness in attending to physical examinations of various students.

Recently, students, according to
Gazette information, waited impatiently as the clock hands_ sped
through an hour, and no doctors appeared. Mild rage was expressed
over the extra classes missed because of this.

What can be done about it?

Oo

Study Groups
Hold Meeting

“Sanctions and the League of
Nations” was the subject discussed
at the third meeting of the Students’
Study Group on Tuesday evening, by
Ronald Copp. About fifteen students
attended the meeting, with Dr. R.
A. MacKay in the chair. Bob Batt
will give a talk on Fascism next
, week, it was announced.

 

 

 

AS Tigers Lose

Bands, cheer-leaders, dummies and the largest and
most enthusiastic crowd of the year, all at Redland to take
back the City Championship, saw the Dalhousie Tigers
blasted from their favored position by a relentless Wanderers team whch beat them in every); department of the

FAVORITES LOSE

| Going into the game top-heavy

favorites to win over the weakened
Wanderers, the Tigers were unable
to match either the scrum or the
backfield. The Wanderers’ scrum,
strengthened by Sheppard and the
coaching of Dr. Murray Logan,
showed a clear superiority over the
Tigers’ scrum. They heeled to advantage, and outclassed the overconfident Tigers in following up.

The Tigers lost consistently in.
the kicking duel. The hard drives
of Beazley caught the Tigers’
backfield off position on practically every Connors
tried to get height in his kicks,
but the forwards were too slow
in following up to take advantage
of them.

occasion.

“SPIRIT” HOLDS

But while the team were waging
a losing fight, the sight of a.“Tiger”
in the Wanderers’ stands stirred the
fans to the boiling point, and at half
time they raided the Red stands. A

 

(Continued on Page Four)

 

 

Plans Going Ahead
For Law Ball f

Get ready for the last) round-up
before the Christmas Exams. The
stage is set for the best party of the
year—The Law Ball—to be held on
Friday, November 22nd, at the Nova
Seotian Hotel.

The dance is to be held under the
distinguished of Chief

 

 

patronage

(Continued on Page Four)

 

First Pep Meeting Lacks Pep

Dalhousie’s first “pep” meeting in
years proved a magnificent flop on
Friday, when sixty out of ‘the
scheduled 600 students attended and
gave a weak demonstration of cheering, when even the cheer-leaders
failed to do the occasion justice.

It was regretted by many Dali
housians that the spirit which showed itself on the campus the week
before should have fallen so miser+
ably. Whether the lack of attendance at what before a decisive game
is considered a great event, was due
to the freshman party which followed the rally or the lack of advertising given the rally by the Students’
Council was difficult to ascertain.

 

 
 
    
   

om
, +

   
 

el +

ae a a

‘a

7 . ate oe = a a ae ~
St a ye ern oe ; + ~ _ i 7 O hl , ' 7
ee 1 -40ye ; a =
’ oi4 r sy ” 2
2." - «- _ .
=

  

- ee
nt a ere

 

 

N. GREEN IRVING PINK
-‘B. 4148 i B, 2442
Managing News Editor
PHIL SARGEANT
B-7223
ews Editor Assistants
on TRACY LEN KITZ, BILL SUTHERLAND
Society . Editor Literary Editor Sports Editor
sete) PURTILL ELISABETH BALLEM TED CREASE
: Staff Artist B. 5737
ere Cc. F. BENTLEY
Business Manager Assistant
J. R. H. SUTHERLAND DOUGLAS CREASE
B. 5487 B. 5737

 

alo

unaec 1869.

  

 
  

“The Oldest College Paper in America”

Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. S.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editors

RUGBY AND REJUVENATION

ANOTHER rugby season has come and gone. Once again

the time has come when the football regalia of the
Tigers will find its way into the storeroom for the long
winter months. Although the City League pennant will
not hang at Studley, we can truthfully say that we have
finished perhaps one of the most successful ruby seasons
in history. The beginning of the league saw Dal lose its
first game, and the Tigers seem to have been fighting a
losing battle all the way through. But, as has so often
been said, “Victory is always empty”; and that would have
‘been truly been the case here. The spirit with which the
Tigers played the game and the spirit with which they lost
is something that Dalhousie can be proud of. Then, too,
this year was the first time for many years that the team
received the support of the student When games were
played at Acadia and at the Wanderers’ field there was a
fine turnout. This year has marked the return of interest
of the student in campus affairs, and the members of the
ruby team, both senior and intermediate, can feel that they
have been in no small degree responsible for this.

No matter how many stars a ruby team may have, it
is never complete without its managers and coaches. The
Dal Tigers are no exception. It was fortunate indeed that
Professors MacDonald and Fletcher offered their services
as coaches, and we hope that their efforts were admirably
rewarded. The rugby team really showed a marked progress under their expert guidance and the brand of rugby
played this year was better than has been seen for a number of years. |

The managers, Bob MacLellan and Toby Beeber are
also to be congratulated on their fine work. It is no easy
task to keep continually after men so that they will come
out to practice; neither is it easy to keep the fellows satisfied with everything day after day. This year, however,
it can be said without hesitation that there has been great
harmony among every member of the team. Personal
prejudices or fraternal relations played absolutely no part
in the formation of the team. This has been a great step
in the forward direction. This is what has helped to rejuvenate student interest. Managers of years to come
would be wise to follow the example set by the rugby
heads this year.

it will not be long before basketball, softball, and other
sports will be occupying the foreground of interest among
the students. The rugby team has set a real example of
how to “play the game”. If a similar spirit can prevail in
fhe remainder of sports this year we feel sure that the
1935-36 term will long be remembered as the high water
mark in the annals of Dalhousie’s history.

 

THE COUNCIL 3

Sunday afternoon the Students’ Council meets in the
' Forrest Building. The size of the body attending the
meeting will be a good indicia of the interest the student
body has in its Council, the body it elects to expend the
$10.00 fee paid by each regular student in the University.
It seems that the student body for the most part was
Jaboring under the delusion that Council meetings are not
public, that they must be carried on behind closed doors.
This is not so: each and every student has the privilege of
attending such meeting.

In the past, and this year is no exception, there has
deen much lethargy amongst the student body so far as
the examination of the duties of the Council is concerned,

a c

_ -but there has certainly been plenty of adverse criticism.

a

The thing to do is to attend these Council meetings,
see that your representative acts in your interest, and if he
or she fails to do so, check them up. But don’t go around
“panning” the Council unless it is deserving of your criti‘cism. And it does not merit your criticism unless the
student body informs the Council of its desires and that
‘body acts adversely.

Attend these meetings—discuss the various questions
‘to be discussed there with your representative before such
‘meeting. Help them along, tell them what you want, then
and only then will there be room to criticize the Council.

 

~

‘FOR KING OR COUNTRY

CANADA welcomes Lord Tweedsmuir, better known as

John Buchan, our new Governor-General. The very
idea raises the thought how much does the presence or absence of a representative of the King mean to the layman.

In years gone by the idea of a representative of the
King in our own fair domain was a vain one, and without
being blasphemous it is submitted that the custom is continued not so because we feel that the continuance of that
Office is necessary as because it soothes our vanity. The
anomaly lies in the fact that we cannot be loyal Britishers
and sovereign Canadians at once. The Statute of WestMinster was an attempt to gain the latter, the continuance
of the progressive right in the King to declare war and
make peace for us is an example of the former. The rub
lies in the fact that we can’t have our cake and eat it too.

 

sie M Gacette

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Says Reform 1s
Needed at Dal

(By C. C.)
Last year there was considerable

 

agate talk of reform at Dalhousie and we

are told that this movement is making itself felt already this year. Why
not carry this through and haye a
reform in student government?

Under the present system, Arts,
Science, Commerce and Engineering
all vote on the same ballot and
choose eight representatives out of
sixteen candidates. Each class is
supposed to have its own representatives on the Council, but what really
happens is that the class merely
chooses the candidates, while the
whole faculty elects which of these
are to be the representatives. If each
class is to have representatives then
that class and that class only should
elect them.

The present system might be quite
satisfactory in a smaller residential
college where everyone knows everyone else, but at Dalhousie it is impossible to know everyone. Consequently a Senior is asked to vote for
Freshmen whom he probably never
saw nor heard of before. The result
is that he either dooesn’t vote at all
or else votes for one in preference to
the other as he happens only to know
one or know of him. Thus people are
elected to the Council because they
have met more people at Fraternity
parties or have been in the public
eye, as a basketball player or
something.

Now if each class or Society alone
elected their representatives, there
would be more chance of the electors
knowing whom they were voting for
and something of the candidates’
ability. Besides there would be op
portunities for the class to express
their wishes at a meeting and inform
their representative as to what they
want done by the Council. The result would be that a truly representative council would be elected instead
of a body chosen because of the
popularity of its members. That is,
the different classes should choose
their representaives as Law, Medicine, and Dentistry do now.

At present Commerce and Engineering really have double representation. “Each of these faculties has
a representative and besides each
student also belongs to one of the
four classes in Arts and Science and
so has a cless representative as well,
yet these are the smallest faculties
in the University. Either the Commerce and Engineering students
should vote for their own representative only and not a class member as
well, or else these two seats on the
Council should be abolished and these
students vote for their class representatives only.

The Freshman class, probably the
largest of the four years, is totally
without a representative of their own
choosing. All they have is a
representative chosen by the students
in Arts and Science the previous
year. After they have been here
long enough to know each other,
then they should elect a member to
the Council. It might not be advisible to abolish the usual Freshman
Representative, but he might remain
also to advise and assist the younger
member.

Another thing inconsistent with
modern principles of government is
that the retiring, rather than the
newly elected Council makes certain
appointments for the following year,
such as the Gazette staff. Might we
not have the most recently chosen
student government fill these offices ?

Many of these ideas are by no
no means new, but nevertheless
worthy of some consideration. If we
are to make any constitutional reforms now is the time to plan them
so that they may come into effect
when the elections are held next
March.

At present the graduating class
helps elect a Council which will not
function until after they have left
this campus. Would it not be better
for them only to elect one of their
members, who expects to return, to
be Freshman advisor.

How about some action or at least
discussion and constructive criticism!

NOTICE

The Student Directory has

finally made its appearance,
Get your copy from your class
officers.

 

a oe er ee _
A
& a

re eee mt ame mm eae aa aE tcl neem ttle
rr

Friday, November 15, 1935

 

THE
OUTLOOK

“The tumult and the shouting dies,
The captains and the kings depart.”

 

Remembrance Day has once more
come and gone, leaving in its trail
poignant memories. No longer is it
Armistice Day, but Remembrance
Day. The change is significant. The
post-war excitement has given place
to a more sober reckoning of the
costs incident to war. A conversation overheard in the local barber
shop a few days ago may serve to
illustrate:

“T see by today’s paper,” said the
‘Next’, “that there were another
thousand Ethiopians killed today.”

“That’s not much,’ said the tonsorial artist, with a savage scrape at an
elderly gentleman’s beard, ‘‘Why, in
that last war there were ten or fifteen million killed.”

“Say, that’s a lot, now, isn’t it,”
remarked the ‘Next’, as he gazed
out -the wnidow at an attractive
young girl, scarcely out of the cradle
at the time of which they spoke,
“Does that include the civilians too?”

“Don’t scarcely think so,” the barber replied in half-soliloquy, “I guess
there was lots more than that all
told.”

What difference was there in their
minds between ten and fifteen million
dead men? The average man, including most of us who are not distinctly abnormal, cannot readily
grasp such figures. They are like the
national debt or some such matter
where the layman simply recognizes
that it is enormous and shouldn’t be
so, and lets it go at that. Nevertheless there appears to be a growing consciousness of the enormity of
these figures, and there is less of a
boast attached to their statement.
After the first great impulse of
glorifying war there came the backwash of anti-militarism as witnessed
by the various abortive peace pacts
of the nineteen-twenties, and now
has come the strong steady flow
along the well-defined but often forgotten channel of rational consideration and reflection. In the calm there
comes a vision of the future unprejudiced and sincere.

Many rash statement have been
made as to the nature of the “next
war”. Deep down in the hearts of
ninety-nine per cent of us there is
the strong conviction that there will
be another war. It is not a hope,
but a sober facing of the inevitable
reality. Even the most unthinking
realizes that the world is not today
so constituted as to make future war
beyond comprehension. As has been
often remarked, “There will always
be war while there remain the two
divisions: the ‘haves’ and the ‘have
nots’”. The causes of war are not
remedied by international agreements any more than a dispute over
a line fence is amicably settled by
arbitration before a court. Each
neighbor feels he has been unjustly
treated unless he obtains everything
he claimed. So any international
agreement arrived at after a process
of bickering and exchanging does
not leave the parties completely
satisfied, whence the bad blood will
show itself sooner or later. The
“next war” will be the same as the
last war insofar as its causes and
underlying purposes are concerned.
What must be done, then, to lessen
its possibility, and ameliorate its
eventuality? Undoubtedly some attempt upon the part of individual
nations to make the excuses for not
engaging in war more numerous, and
to make the actual duration of the
conflict as short as possible. Details?
Work them out for yourself: the
plans are fairly numerous.

“In future wars”, said my military
friend,” there will be more time
Spent upon manoeuvring and less on
actual fighting. Even in Ethiopia at
the present there is evidence of
that”. There was much truth in what
he said. A fairly strong desire to
acquire territory for economic exploitation and for population settlement seems to be the main basis for
war from the point of view of Japan,
Italy and Germany, the danger spots
just now. Accordingly, there is no
desire to destroy the territory
sought to be conquered, but rather to
preserve it substantially intact. For
this purpose if the enemy can be outmanoeuvred and forced to surrender
either individually or as a whole, or,
better still, put to flight, the aim of
the invader will be best served.

SSS SSS SSS slg sss spielen ec
—_t shes sss
—_——— SSS

     

Sponsored by the University Travel

Association, a ship carrying one
hundred college students will leave
in February for a trip around the
world. In addition to a course on
modern civilization, which all are required to take, there is a choice of
twenty-six optional courses ranging
from foreign trade and journalism
to botany and navigation. Credit
for these courses is given to several
of the universities ashore. The ship
will leave New York to pass through
the Panama Canal and up the west
coast of the United States, crossing
the Pacific to visit Japan, China and
India,

En route through the Red Sea,
stops will be made in the Near East
and Mediterranean ports. Such a
trip, besides its immense educational
value, will give the students a
broader and more sympathetic international outlook. The modern ease
of transportation and communication
between nations should be a powerful factor in fostering international
peace.

* * oo

Early this week there was celebrated the anniversary of the Armistice which ended the “war to end
war”; yet the passage of seventeen
years sees an immediate military
crisis and re-armament by all nations on an unprecedented scale.

Why has the peace machinery
which was set up in 1918 failed? Because when the United States refused to join the League of Nations
the latter simply became an instrument by which France sought to
preserve the status quo. The present situation is a direct result of
the Treaty of Versailles. Hitler and
Mussolini ascended to power solely
because the evils consequent upon
the allocation of territory under
that treaty wrought hardship and
dissatisfaction among the Germans
and Italians. Any success secured by
the League in its present conflict

SOMETHING TO
THINK ABOUT

with Italy will be merely temporary
unless there follows a re-allotment
of raw materials and_ territory
among the nations of the world.

* * %

Reciprocity with the United States,
the dream of Laurier and the avowed goal of Mackenzie King, who
promised to achieve it within ninety
days of his election is practically assured. At least this is the effect of
a joint statement issued by Premier
King and President Roosevelt who
announce complete agreement on the
objectives to be secured. So far the
details are vague, only the basic outlines of the scheme being settled.
Former Premier Bennett had submitted a list of over eight hundred
items on which he proposed to grant
tariff concessions. Premier King is
said to have added to this list an to
have pressed for speedy completion
of the negotiations.

A difficulty is caused by the duplication of several agricultural and
other products which are major exports of the two countries. American
companies that built subsidiaries in
Canada would, although their goods
are to be admitted more easily, lose
by any reduction in tariffs,

* * Bo

The question whether incurables
suffering an agonizing disease should
be permitted to commit suicide has
again been brought to the fore. Enthanasia, “the easy death,” has the
backing of several distinguished men
and women, including Julian Huxley
and Lord Monaghan, president of the
Royal College of Surgeons. An attempt will be made to pass a bill
through the English Parliament by
which the State will sanction this
form of death, The State recognizes
the right to deprive of life those who
are definitely anti-social, should this
right. be extended to those who can
be of no possible use to society and
whose existence on earth is torture
to them?

ee eres

Furthermore, modern methods of attack are wasted unless there is some
worthwhile object for them. A single
individual is not worth the cost of
killing, to be brutally frank about it.
Sudden, unexpected blows shatter
the morale to a much greater extent
than continuous wearing down of the
opposition, although more actual
damage may be done by the latter.
At least this much may be said in
favor of such action, that there may
be fewer lives lost, less suflering,
and more time for thought on the
part of the belligerents. “Small comfort”, remarks my right hand.
“Perhaps so”, I reply,” and yet taking the long view it may mean the
passing of the day of wholesale
slaughter for its own sake, and the
return of the days of chivalry when

you knew whether a man was for or
aganist you, and when a fight was
over when it ended.” The change
may be for the worse; undoubtedly
the compelling motives do not recommend it. Nevertheless, ere now an
evil intent has worked good to its
own destruction. So let us hope it
will be in this situation.

One might ramble on thus for
time. It is hoped that the reader
who has endured thus far, will continue in his own vein. If only sufficient persons of average intelligence
keep thinking over the situation,
certainly some solution must present
itself in the long run, perhaps not
as a complete plan, but as a means
to the end which men and women of
all nations in fact desire, summed
up in the single word, peace.

 

 

 

 

PARTY TIME IS HERE

 

 

Formal Evening

Wear - - 
To be in the social swim one must have a dinner jacket
or a suit of tails. We are featuring a smartly tailored
Tuxedo Suit with Silk Vest at $25.00, complete.

Others at $30.00 and $35.00. Accessories to match at
the same reasonable prices.

See the new black Hamburg’s Hat for evening
wear as featured by Esquire.

SHANE’S

MEN'S SHOP

THIRTY SPRING GARDEN ROAD

eeeeeseseseSFSsSse
DISCOUNT OF 10% TO DALHOUSIE STUDENTS

 

 
 

}

We have often thought that we
would like to record in this column
the high lights (or should we says
_the extreme darks?) of romance at

Dalhousie.

a
4

=

Should we have attempt
____ ed this we would have had to con
yo
as. \
es
ie.
<
co. |.
f i
ce
ee
a
ns
a
a
c
i
A
fi
:
s
’
|
‘a
,
|
ce,
P
q
Ora
—
1,
7 *; a

 

“

tact somebody in the know and thus
‘our problem would be to find some
one who knows all, sees all and
- would be willing to tell all. It would

be useless to consult the society editor because, while she naturally
records the results, she may not
necessarily know the causes. For instance, why was Henry Ross a trifle
annoyed at a recent dance? The society editor would record the persons
at the dance but would not say who
was with whom .
have the puzzle. Cheer up, Henry,
the lad who entered you territory
was similarly treated the following
week . . . and was he annoyed! But

Henry, watch out for that football].

man who keeps a list of pleasant
dates and follows through the list
in order . . . he seems to be hesitating to pass the next name!

* * *

Anyway we wont’ need to try to
record the peccadilloes due to the
promptings of the amatory instinct.
We now have a contemporary who
heads his or her ramblings with that
awful word SCANDAL. We fear
that this is hardly expressive of its
contents in that the writer tells no
stories but merely raise the questions which are doubtless to be answered by the readers as they see fit.
And that is how scandal is born.

. and there wel

To those gentlemen of the press
who must trudge down-town to be
thrown out of this place and that, we
say that last week’s Gazette was the
best yet. We liked the advertisements and whilst we were reading
them we thought about Murray. Each
new account means more money to
be kept safely from all those with
expense accounts, yeah, even the
manager of the domino team wants
an appropriation to whiten the dots
on three dominoes. Incidentally, if
the business department continues in
its present stride, ye editors will only
have to write the editorials and this
poor writer will be out of a job.

* aK *

And while we are talking advertising we cannot refrain from commenting on the poor support given
to the staff of this paper by the
students. We mean moral support
. patronizing those people who
so kindly help the Students’ Council
finance this journal . . yes, we mean
the advertisers. When other factors
are equal, why not follow their suggestion and trade with them. At
least you’d make Harry and Doug
have a clearer conscience. We practice what we preach. When we want
to nibble some chocolate we say
JERSEY MILK. But you won’t be
able to identify the writer of these
remarks by noting the persons who
purchase that brand . . no, there
are too many!

* * *

We don’t know whether Don
Saunderson like chocolate bars—we
must admit that we have learned

 

WHEN YOU CALL TO SEE
YOUR GIRL AND YOU FIND
SOME CHAP
YOU TO IT’.

THE BEST

 

HAS "BEAT

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

DALHOUSIE

TAKE YOUR

EDICINE

Who dare to intimidate T. Y. M?
Threats that were pressing him of
late have aggravted an already unsteady intoxication of fear. The only
alternative is to expose the menaces
and strive to raise the scientificthreshold for these individuals. Apparently the truth, when made public
is not very enlightning to them. The
suggestion is therefore made that
they cloak themselves in secrecy and
indulge in anything flagrant only
when the winds are blowing or in
human eyes are watching—

 

 

Rain drops helped to submerge the
peat of activities at Acadia. The field
was flooded, the stands were in a
deluge of spirits and even the train
homeward-bound found Gold courting
a fine Flood. We hope Betty won’t
disappoint him — he swears by all
notorious that this is the real BettyCoed. On visiting the Residence a
pretty blonde naively enquired of
Bill Embree, but Bill was to busy
selling “Vitone’” samples; a more
nourishing practice than _ selling
magazines. Two R.C.M.P. officers
lent every effort to curb the ebullience. Ramsay offered little information about the person with whom he
had dinner;—the smile she wore may
have been prompted when he told her
a filthy foot is most like a gangrenous one. All in all it was a grand
party even if Acadia does not come
up to the Dal standard of hospitality.

 

Back to the comfortable homestead
where church-going women are princessess and the 8rd year meds are
taught differently. Frazer Nicholson
has mastered a “butt” expedition; he
accepts anything smoked down to one
inch. Mare Brown has embarked on
a specialty, the bare field of the
scalp. He will give expert advice
pertaining to Dandruff mixtures, but
alas, he loses more hair worrying
than he preserves massaging. , Father Witkin may be losing his hair
soon if Epstein doesn’t stay away
from his girl friend.

 

Ever dissatisfied, the 2nd year

| class bemoans the absence of Materia

Medica. It was a snap—and now
every professor takes advantages.
Dr. Cruickshank is finishing in four
months what he barely touched in
eight; Dr. Mainland is picking
“bones” with the students, and Dr.
Young will be taking the very blood
from them. Don’t fret boys—you
were never drugged for a year.
When the cat is away the mice
will play, so Dr. McCurdy resentfully
ordered Rankine to wipe the smile
off his face. George and Helen are
not doing badly even if Dr. Smith is

 

gravely concerned over Helen’s
health.
An inkling of home-life. Buster

Morson won’t drink his orange-juice
unless Daddy squeezes it for him and
relates a pony story while he drinks
it. Papa may crush oranges but little Buster is crushing something delicate on Cunard Street.

 

The inexorable student of Ist year
has not yet purged himself of the iniquities of Arts, so Dr. McClure
thinks. He threatens to be unmerciful toward anyone caught cribbing
and promptly bring him before the
Dean.

 

Spare the bouquets, Carl Jr. takes
his castor oil without a grimace; he
has been nicknamed T, Y. M. Jr.

from the GAZETTE that he prefers
Freshettes! But whatever his likes
and dislikes, we hate to see him accused of something that he does not
do and so to those fraternity lads
we say “Don is not guilty!”—so
please don’t think that he writes this
stuff.

GAZETTE

Our Experts

We notice with interest a new departure on the part of Dalhousie this
year in the introduction into the University Agenda of a series of extension lectures. This is a venture of
which we all ought to feel justifiably
proud and in which we should all
have some measure of interest.

However, it does bring to mind the
question as to whether most knowledge can be disseminated most readily through talks by experts or laymen. Do audiences want specialists
to lecture to them or do they want
well-informed leaders who will
arouse and stimulate discussion after
stating the problem? The question
is not, as it may first seem a variation of the old “lecture vs discussion
method” controversy What it
amounts to is this: the professional
or the dilettante?

The latter has much to be said for
him. He can talk well, brightly and
entertainingly, and can arouse discussion. Do you learn most from the
discussion he stimulates or from a
talk by one who thoroughly knows
the problems of the particular field.

On the other hand the expert is
feared because he is too narrow, too
wrapped up in his subject to care for
other values. He cares only for addressing other specialists. He is
dry, uninteresting, so forgetful of his
audiences that he drones through his
material.

 

Now, if we suppose that these
“other values” are the relationship
of the particular field of the expert
with other fields of thought, do you
want the expert to pass on these
relationships to you ready-made?
Surely not. Such an idea would be
feasible and necessary for the teacher of children in a certain stage of
mental growth, but not for adults.

Ready-made connections, readymade ideas on the relationship of
values fit the individual as poorly as
ready-made clothes. The ready-mades
are for the pattern molded man. The
individual is rarely exactly suited,
the relationships must be repatterned and the individual must do
the patterning himself.

The second argument against the
expert, that he cares only to address
other experts is the most telling.
Here, however, let us take three
types of expert— (1) the specialists
who refuse to talk about their subject, because of the inferior intellects
around them; (2) those who are so
afraid of boring the other person
that they maintain rigid silence unless sympathetic interest or an intelligent question unlocks the gates
of their reserve; (3) those who are
so enthusiastic, each over his particular line that they must bubble over.
It is not right to condemn a group
of one individual. The first type is
best left alone, but the other two
kinds can be used, and ought to be
used.

The third argument against the
specialist is that he is dry and uninteresting. This, too, is not true
in all cases, but the question may be
seen to turn on what kind of a group
one is dealing with.

If the group has been gathered together by flashy advertising, by spectacular publicity, then obviously a
spectular personality should be
had to address them. It should be
apparent that if a crowd is drawn
together through the medium of
trumpet-blowing and drum beating,
then the trumpet-blowing and drumbeating is what crowd have come to
hear.

Once let a person suspect, so we
are told, that he is being given information and his sense organs will
automatically close, his mind contract. To my mind this is untrue.

If a crowd has been gathered
together for a common purpose, they
do not have to be pampered. If
there is a common feeling of need
for intellectual enquiry, then the
intellectual hungry are _ content
without the frosting on the cake. If

 

Page Three

RIGID

INSPECTION

Certifies

TUR

 
 

QUALITY

RET

 
 
 
     

SAVE THE
VALUABLE
POKER HANDS

CIGARETTES

IMPERIAL TOBACCO COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

 

 

 

SOCIAL

 

EXPLAINED

 

CRED 'T i

 

   

It should be stated here that the
subject dealt with is the Social
Credit theory of Major Douglas and
not the policy of Aberhart’s government. This must unfortunately be
so because, while Aberhart does not
see eye to eye with Douglas on all
points, he has not disclosed wherein
he differs. He adopts however, the
three basic principles and has invited Major Douglis to superintend
the administration of Social Credit
in Alberta. Accordingly the following may be accepted as explanatory
of what Aberhart’s policies will be.

Social Credit is not a communistic
doctrine but is founded on the capitalistic system. The only fault with
such a system and the cause of the
recurrent depressions which occur
under it are simply the result of an
imperfect understanding of how it
works. Society has solved the problem of abundant production but has
failed to solve the problem of the
distribution of the goods produced;
that is there is a scarcity of purchasing power. This failure is explained
by the famous A and B theorem.

The payments made by a factory
or other productive organization may
be divided into two groups. Group
A comprises all payments made to
individuals, (wages, salaries, and
dividends.) Group B comprises all
payments made to other organizations, (raw materials, bank charges,
and other costs). That rate of flow
of purchasing power to individuals
is represented by A but since all
payments go into prices to make up

the frosting can be added, so much
the better.

If then, we accept the expert, how
can he be of use. The place of the
question period after a lecture is
where he triumphs over the dilletante. If there is a pancity of ideas
in a lecture the audience will see
through it, and the question period
will let the dilletante open for a bad
half-hour. He can smile charmingly and say “I don’t know,” but that
hardly aids an audience who want to
find out.

Audiences want experts and Dalhousie is giving it to them.

 

the cost of production the rate of
flow of prices cannot be less than
A & B. Obviously A will not purchase A & B, therefore a proportion
of the product at least equivalent to
B must be distributed by a form of
purchasing power which is not comprised in the descriptions grouped
under A.

This purchasing power is supplied
by bank eredit. Necessarily this
bank credit difficulty is cumulative
since each borrowing to pay a debt
creates a larger debt and compels
further borrowing of credit. A contraction of bank credit causes a reduction of purchasing power and
leads to depression.

To the bankers, who are responsible for and have control of credit
contraction, the Social Creditors impute sinister and selfish motives, The
government will therefore seize the
control of money and credit from the
bankers and _ diffuse purchasing
power in the form of credit among
the citizens. The security for this
credit will be the capital of the
State which is composed of the
value of the natural resources and
the capital value of the citizens.
Major Douglas once said that a 25
year old American was worth$ 50,000 to the community. It is against
this huge supply of capital that a
dividend of $25 a month will be
issued to each person. As the people buy more and more, thus increasing production, the value of the new
products will increase the State
capital. To further spur on production the State will lend capital to
industry without interest; and the
consumer will obtain goods below
the cost of production, the State
making up the difference plus a profit to the manufacturer. The result
will be to swell still more the State
wealth against which money and
credit is being issued.

In short, the three fundamental
elements on which Social Credit is
predicated are:

1. National dividends for all.

2. Socialization of money and
credit.
8. The “just” price.

 

®

 

Jerry Naugler and
his Band will provide the best music.

 

NOVA SCOTIAN
COUPLE $3.00

HOTEL

Everyone is going to the best Dance of the year

THE LAW BALL

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22nd

9.00 p. m.

 

The number of tickets

is limited, so be sure

to get yours early.

 

©

 
 
  
 

TIGERS ENTER LEAGUE

With the formation of the Independent City League,
which will renew the traditional hockey rivalry between
Dalhousie and Wanderers, the Dalhousie team will face the
stiffest opposition in years from the best senior teams in
Halifax. Dalhousie is entering this league with the hope

 

ap that the coming season will see a revival of interest in
os, hockey.
yo. Some optimistic supporters of the; The Dal team has been practicing

’ sport even visualize a team and
student interest that will equal those

regularly for the past two weeks

   
   
     
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
         
         

 

if of the years between °25 and ’29, and have considerable talent to draw
ie when such players as MacNiel, from this year. Seven of last year’s
be Fluck, Mackay and Bates wore the regulars are back: Cohn, Stanfield,
be Gold and Black ‘colors. Patton, Mullane, Graham, Goodwin
rf Re haat “Heanotind | df and Carroll. Those of the newcom. . ers who have shown up well to date
teams from the Wanderers, Blue et Re iets Walk Mavahall
: : gor, alker, Marshall,
hi peor e He Gy pig de Cin Gd Smith, Harris, Lavers, Asbell, Prat,
ierenoney ae =m ce the only Napier and MacLellan. Three former
B.A ar lcague fonctioning in. Halifax intercollegiate stars from Dal and
? vig beg one from Acadia are also showing to
In this league Dal may use either |. qvantage — Buckley, Ryan, Connor
undergraduates or men in the Prof.
Schools, which should aid the team
considerably, as in former years
ik pangraduates mare ethic. opponents plenty of trouble, providing the interest in sport that has
been shown in rugby continues. To
that end efforts will be made to assure transportation for interested
students, whenever league games are
played. A bus could leave Dalhousie
for the Forum on such occasions and
return the students to the campus
for the price of ten cents return. So
let’s see the Forum crowded with
: Dalhousie students on the night of
. the first. game, for if the hockey
- team is given the support that the
rugby team received, who can ask
for more?
: ciel Midenn Gazette Reporter
(Continued from Page One)
: Sports should not be held too often. I
i i ui ment would suggest one a month.

' ue TA q ” ip we eet Edith Blair, former exchange stuue Na : Bae Miah ch dent: A splendid idea. It eliminates
mere | exclusiveness and petting. They
ng » should be held every two weeks.
ie s Pp HINNEYS Janet MacGregor: I do not think

they will be patronized, because
there are too many other dances
jand parties already on the campus.

Margaret Woolaver: These dances
should be held once a month, but
they must be patronized by everyDutch

BASKETBALL
BADMINTON
SKATES, SHOES
HOCKEY SUPPLIES
BOXING GLOVES

  

one on the campus. dates
should be the vogue.

Joan Furlong, Class ’39, and Ron
Heisler, ’38, also expressed themselves in favor of gym dances as a
means of bringing students together,
while Gordon Thompson, president
of the junior class, stated he believed
the dances would be a good thing,
although he said he had not given
the subject much thought.

    

Spirit is Willing-
(Continued from Page One)

 

“Tiger”.

A counter-attack was staged and
fists were swinging wildly. When
the smoke cleared away, the members of the dummies were about
evenly distributed between the warring factions. And not a few carried home badges of honor on their
faces of the struggle.

At the kick-off, the ball was
sent deep into Red territory.

And for the first few minutes

 

CLASS
PARTIES

The ideal place for
class parties now is
the newly decorated
Green Lantern Palm
Room. Tastily decorated, central,
able.

reason
BUCKINGHAM

20¢- 25 for25*- 50 for 50¢
1c ARET TES

The Green Lantern

  

fierce melee took place around the
ends, and the students raced back
to the Dal stands with a decapitated

‘ w/

STARS TURN. OUT AS! SCANDAL |The Future Holds

and DeWolfe.
With such material Dal should put
a team on the ice that will give their sometimes causes a sprained ankle.

   
       
        
 
     
   
  
 
 
   

      

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Fate of Dal Sports

With the fall of the Tigers before
the Wanderers Saturday, many Dalhousians wondered if this defeat
would sound the death knell of sport
at this College for the remainder of
the year, or would as much interest
be taken in basketball and hockey as
was evident during the football sea; son.

The hockey season is approaching,
and already there is talk of cutting
down on the appropriation for this
sport. It is understood this matter
is to be brought up at one of the
students’ forums to be held at Studley this month. It is up to the aie)
dents in general whether they want
sport to die at Dal at the end of the
rugby season, or whether it is to continue at the old University. |

Dalhousian Says-- |

(Continued from Page One)

 

What peculiar fascination has
Georgie Murphy for the freshettes?
“They ask him here,

They ask him there,

They ask our Georgie everywhere.
Is it his line for which they fell,
How about asking Fran Martell?”

 

Why is that a shy, unassuming
young lady by the name of Evelyn
can’t solicit for charity among our
future lawyers without being accused of unprintable crimes?

 

We've decided to accept as the
motto of our column Janet McGregor’s favourite expression:

“Dirt—I love it.”

 

 

Is Ritchie Douglas forsaking |
medicine for art? There must be
some reason for his nightly strolls
along the Arm.

 

 

 

 

Playing leap-frog over benches

Acadia kept pounding at Connor
in that game. Yet for excellent
catching of a slippery ball, for beautiful accuracy in punting and where
Connor was never exceedingly strong |
in tackling, Connor played undoubtedly the finest game in his career.
Tedford, the opposing fullback was
continually blocked by a pack of forfards that were playing the
game of their lives.

On the occasion where a try for
Acadia seemed emminent when the
Wolfville players got the ball clearly
from a five yard scrum, the ball was
passed to six men. Every man was
thrown savagely for a loss.

At the game with Wanderers, the

After this, you’d better watch your
step, Margie.

 

 

the collegians were cheering
wildly. But the stubborn resistance of the Wanderers’ forwards carried the play into Dal
ground, and for the balance of
the first half the play centered
twenty-five

also

around the Tigers’
yard line.

REDS SUPERIOR

From the opening whistle of the
second half, the clear superiority of
the Redmen showed itself to greater | team seemed finished. It was not a
advantage. The attempts of Con-| matter of condition as the team had
nors to clear failed. The three-|no pep even for the early part of the
quarter line ceased functioning alto-| first period.
gether, and rarely did a pass go be-| Buckley at Acadia did nothing
yond the center three-quarters. wrong. At the Wanderers he placed

Gradually, the superior dribbling | Several bad punts in to the opposing
of the Wanderers’ forwards carried
the ball to the Tigers’ line, and
Joudrey fell on a loose ball for the
only try of the game. The convert
sailed high over the bar from the
educated toe of Bauld.

The collegians made a last desperate try to break into the scoring

column, but the Reds protected their
margin by lucky kicks, and the final
whistle blew down the hopes of Dalhousie.

 

GAUVIN

AND

GENTZEL

may have
Photographers to BAY, TON OAT,

VAL-GLO

DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing

LUXURIOUS
Top value—that feeling of

Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Garden Rd.

Phone B-6992

UNRESTRICTED CHOICE
OF BRITISH WOOLLENS

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

TAILORED TO
YOUR MEASURE

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.
21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

  

i!

TAILOABI

and Body

Now an added feature of amazing Tip

ease when you slip into the silk-like
COMFORT of lustrous all-rayon* linings,
both in body and sleeves! Among bestdressed men all-rayon linings have now
become an indispensable requisite. Your
new TIP TOP suit, top coat or overcoat
will be tailored and styled not only from
the finest British Woollens—it will have
this superb INNER C-O-M-F-O-B-T.

VAL-GLO is made with Courtauld’s
rayon yarns

b
Valleytield, Quebec.
* Rayon n OUT are S.jusianteed

1

 

” % rt? or

Friday, November 15, 1985.

 

o Attempt Hockey Co Comeback

 

line with his own three-quarter wait- |
ing. Connor was repeatedly outkicked, Time and again the Wanderers full-back got away kicks that
should have been smothered.

Well to get psychological again,
The team had already reached its
peak. No malice is intended to any
player mentioned. The pep had gone |
like the Arabs with their tents.

Plans Going Ahead-'

(Continued from Page One)
Justice Sir Joseph Chisholm and the |

 

 

Hon. Angus L. Macdonald, Premier |
of Nova Scotia. )

All arrangements have been com- |
pleted. Jerry Naugler’s augmented |
orchestra will be in attendance and_|
there will be entertainment and_|
novelties galore.

 

Dance favors that are
intriguing — cherished
long after the occasion
these may be had at
Birks.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

BIRKS.-
 

 

Shoes Tinted to Match Your Gowns
We Call and Deliver

| CAPITOL SHOE REPAIR

44 - 46 SACKVILLE STREET

~ CO_EDS:

Just Phone B-8566

 

CASINO

Starting Saturday, Nov. 16th

Born For Glory

 

An Inspiring Epic of British

Gallantry and Adventure.

 

MICKEY MOUSE
CARTOON

AND OTHER SHORTS

 

iphecnantene sassy

Sleeve

soft, luxurious

the MOCO Mills of

  

union

442 Barrington Street
Halifax, N. S.

 

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  

CRAFRT & Mm

 

TODAY, SAT., MON.

at 2.10, 3.30, 7 and 9.
Sat. Continuous from 1.30.

LAWRENCE

TIBBETT
act ica

Metropolitan

with
VIRGINIA BRUCE
ALICE BRADY
CESAR ROMERO

NPS

   

  

imitte

n

 
